





PROCEEDINGS 



OP THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1866. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY, 



1866, 




I 



X 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With references to the several Articles contributed by each 



Allen, Dr. H. Notes on the Vespertilionidse of Tropical America 279 



Berthoud, E. L. Description of the Hot Springs of Soda Creek, their 

 location, number, temperature and altitude, and the Geological 

 features of the surrounding locality ; together with the remarkable 

 discovery of a human skeleton and a fossil Pine Tree in the Boulder 

 and Gravel Formation of Soda Bar, Oct. 13, 1860 342 



Cassin, John. A study of the Icteridae 10 



Fasti Ornithologife, No 2 35 



A second study of the Icteridae 403 



Cope, E. D. Fourth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America 123 

 Remarks on the remains of a gigantic extinct Dinosaur, from the creta- 

 ceous green sand of New Jersey 275 



Third Contribution to the History af the Balaenidae and Delphiuidse 293 



On the Reptilia and Batrachia of the Sonoran Province of the Nearctic 



Region 



Fifth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America 317 



Coues, Dr. Elliott. A critical Review of the Family Procellariidse, Part 



III., embracing the Fulraarese 25 



List of the Birds of Fort Whipple, Arizona ; with which are incor- 

 porated all other species ascertained to inhabit the Territory ; with 

 brief critical and field Notes, descriptions of new species, &c 39 



A critical Review of the Family Procellariidse, Part IV., embracing the 



iEstrelatese and the Prioneae 134 



Critical Review of the Family Procellariidse, Part V., embracing the 



Diomedeinae and the Halodrominae, with a general Supplement 172 



Daniell, Dr. W. C. On the introduction of the American Shad into the 



Alabama River 236 



Horn, Dr. Geo. H. Descriptions of some new Cicindelidse, from the 



Pacific Coast of the United States '. 394 



Descriptions of some new genera and species of Central American 



Coleoptera 397 




^V. LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Lea, Isaac. Description of twelve new species of Unionidae, from 



South America 33 



Notes on some members of the Feldspar Family 110 



Desiri|iti()n of five niiw species of the Genus Unio 133 



Description of two new species of the Genus Lithasia 133 



lie Conte, Dr. J. L. List of Coleoptera collected in the Mountains of 



Lycoming County, Pa 346 



List of Coleoptera collected near Fort Whipple, Arizona, by Dr. Elliot 



Coues, U. S. A., in 1864-65 348 



Revision of the Dasytini of the United States 349 



Additions to the Coleopterous Fauna of the United States. No. 1 361 



Lincecura, Dr. G. A History of the "small blicic erratic Ant" 101 



On the Agricultural Ant, (Myrmica Molefaciens) 323 



Meehan, Thos. On the Period and Ratio of the Annual Increase in the 



Circumference of Trees ^ 292 



On the Consumption of Force by Plants in overcoming Gravitation 401 



Meek, F. B., and A. H. Worthen. Contributions to the Palaeontology of 



Illinois and other Western States 251 



Meigs, J. Aitken. Observations on the Cranial Forms of the American 

 Aborigines, based upon specimens contained in the Collection of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences 197 



Reakirt, Tryon. Descriptions of some new species of Diurnal Lepidop- 



tera 238, 331 



Rominger, Dr. Carl. Observations on Chsetetes and some related Genera, 

 in regard to their Systematic Position ; with an appended descrip- 

 tion of some New Species < 113 




s~^ 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY or NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1866. 



I 



January 2c7. 



The President, Da. Isaac Hays, in the Chair, 

 Twenty-two members present. 



Dr. Leidy called the attention of the members to the greater part of a human- 

 skull, and a shell medallion, presented this evening by Col. A. W, Putnam, of 

 Nashville, Tenn. The specimens were obtained frcm one of the so-called pigmy 

 graves of an ancient aboriginal cemetery near the mouth of Stone River, 

 Davidson Co., Tenn. 



The part of the skull consists of nearly the entire cranial portion, and does 

 not differ in general form, proportions and size, from that of the usual North 

 American Indian skulls. The occipital region is high, somewhat compressed, 

 and laterally deformed. The medallion is a circular piece of shell, about two 

 inches in diameter, and is much eroded. It appears to have been covered with 

 some pigment. One side is plain ; the other is marked with cross bars con- 

 tained within a linear circle. The upper edge is perforated' with two holes. 



Dr. L. read an extract from an article by Col. Putnam, in relation to the 

 specimens and the so-called pigmy race of Tennessee, published' in the Nash- 

 ville Dispatch^ Dec. 12, 1865. The substance of the extract is a& follows : 



The ancient cemeteries in middle Tennessee are peculiar from the construc- 

 tion and small size of the graves, which have given rise to the idea that they 

 belonged to a people of small stature. The graves are near the surface, and 

 so far as examined by Col. Putnam, or observed by the owners of lands on 

 which they are situated, and where the plow has uncovered them, are of q,uite 

 uniform structure. A few flat stones at the bottom, generally a single one at 

 the head and foot, and a variable number at the sides. The grave thus pre- 

 pared, after receiving the human remains, was filled with earth to the depth of 

 one or two feet, and was then covered with one or more flat stones, though 

 not in all instances. Col. Putnam supposes that recent dead bodies were not 

 deposited in their graves, but were exposed, according to the custom of some 

 of the later Indian tribes, on high scaftblds, or suspended to trees, in the open 

 air, until the soft parts had decayed, after which the bones were collected and 

 deposited in the stone graves. This would explain the reason of the small 

 size of the latter in comparison with the length of the entire skeletons con- 

 tained therein, and appears to receive confirmation from the fact that these 

 graves, notwiihstanding their very superficial poeition, never appear to have 

 been disturbed by wild animals, which they likely would have been had the 

 bodies been buried in the fresh condition. 



1866.] 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Of 



The followinjy deaths were announced : — Col. J. D. Graham, U. S. A., 

 Dec. 29, 1865, and lion. Henry Winter Davis, Dec. 30, 1865, Corre8- 

 pondents, and Adolphus L. Heermann, M. D., Member, Sept. 2, 1865. 



January 9th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty- one members present. 



Dr. Slack directed the attention of the members to some interesting 

 specimens of fossils, and chalk of the cretaceous period, from Smoky 

 Hill River, Colorado Territory, presented this evening by Mr. D. C. 

 Collier. 



January IQiJi. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President^ in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



January 2Sd. 

 Mr. Taux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The following deaths were announced : — Mr. Robt. Pearsall, Member, 

 January 25, 1866 ; and Dr. John L. Riddell of New Orleans, and Dr. 

 John L. Lindley, of London, Correspondents. 



January ^Oth. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



A letter to the President was read, as follows : 



Philadelphia, January I9(h, 1866. 

 The President of the Academy of Natural 1 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. j 



Sir, — T am prepared to pay a legacy often thousand dollars, (less U. S. tax) 

 left to the above Institution by the will of my late brother, Thomas B. Wilson, 

 deceased, and have enclosed herewith a release, to be signed and acknowledged, 

 &c., before a Commissioner of the State of Delaware ; when executed, please 

 advise me where and when we can meet to close the transaction. 

 Yours, respectfully, 



Rathmell Wilson, Uxc'r., 

 of Thomas B. Wilson, Dec'd. 

 Address 919 Clinton street. 



The death was announced of Mr. George Ord, Jan. 23, 18 .6, formerly 

 President of the Academy. 



The following gentlemen were elected members of the Academy : 

 Mr. Edwin L. Reakirt, Mr. Robert Frazer, Mr. Jas. H. B. Bland, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



3 



Mr, George W. Childs. Mr. George M. Woodward, Mr. Thomas Guil- 

 ford Smith, Mr, William Forster Jones, and the Rev. E. R. Beadle. 



Pursuant to the By-Laws, an election of members of the Standing 

 Committees for the ensuing year was held, as follows : 



ETHNOLOGY. BOTANY. 



J. A. Meigs, Elias Durand, 



S. S. Haldeman, C. H. Parker, 



F. V. Hayden. C. E. Smith. 



COMP, AN AT. AND GEN. ZOOLOGY 

 H. Allen, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, 

 J. H. Slack. 



MAMMALOGY. 



J. H. Slack, 

 E. D, Cope, 

 H. Allen. 



ORNITHOLOGY, 

 J. Cassin, 

 S. F. Baird, 

 Henry Bryant. 



HERPETOLOGY AND ICHTHYOLOGY. 

 E. D. Cope, 

 Th. Norris, 

 Robert Bridges. 



CONCHOLOGY. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 

 Isaac Lea, 

 T. A. Conrad. 



ENTOMOLOGY AND CRUSTACEA. 

 Jno. L. Le Conte, 

 J. H B. Bland, 

 H. C. Wood, Jr. 



GEOLOGY. 

 Isaac Lea, 

 J. P, Lesley, 

 F. V. Hayden. 



MINERALOGY. 

 W. S. Vaux, 

 J. C. Trautwine, 

 J. A. Clay. 

 PALEONTOLOGY, 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 F. V. Hayden. 



PHYSICS. 

 Robert Bridges, 

 R. E. Rogers, 

 Jacob Ennis. 



LIBRARY. 



Joseph Jeanes, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 John Cassin. 



PROCEEDINGS, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 W. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Robert Bridges, 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr, 



February Qfh. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice President, in the Chair, 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The following was presented for publication : " A Critical Review of 

 <Df the Family Procellaridse," by Elliet Coues, M. D., U. S. A. 



Prof. E D. Cope presented to the Academy a specimen of Nautilus, obtained 

 by him from the owner of " Heritages," Marl Pits, Glassboro, New Jersey, who 

 Btated to him that it had been found in those diggings. The identity of the 

 matrix with that surrounding specimens of Teredo tibialis, and Terebratula 



1868.] 




* PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fragllig and Ilarlani, taken from that bed by Prof. C, seemed conclusive on 

 lliis point. The Fpecies is an Aturia, and the first found in the cretaceous for- 

 niution of New Jersey, thon^h W. M. Gabb had discovered one perhaps the 

 Bame in the cretaceous of CMlifornia. It. has some resemblance to the zic-zac, 

 but presents fewer and more di?tant septa, longer chambers, and the parietal 

 processes of the septa more divaricate and less dorsally situate. It differs 

 from the A. Alabamensis (Morton) by the same features, and in the smaller 

 siphuncle and much less parallel septa. The following are its characters : 



Uncovered chambers nine ; septary process elongate, acuminate, shallow, 

 diverging outward from a spiral line joining their bases; well separated from 

 the succeeding septa; dorsal poitions of the septa short, very excentric as 

 regards each other ; ventral portions opposite them, forming nearly a right 

 angle with the ventral outline. Siphuncle smnll, more dorsal than the end of 

 the dorsal fourth of the diameter. Ventral face broad rounded; septal 

 l)roces3es scarcely visible on the ventral view. Diameter of the Inst chamber 

 3 in. 111.; of first visible (at siphuncle) 22 1. Median diameter (from penul- 

 timate chamber) 8 inches. 



This species most resembles Nautilus Parkinsoni, which cannot be far re- 

 moved from Aturia. In it the septary process approaches closely the succeed- 

 ing septum ; while in tbe A. pancifex they fall far short of the latter, and are 

 more divaricate; the siphuncle is less dorsally situate, measuring one-fourth 

 the diameter in the former. In A. Agustata, Conrad, from the Eocene of 

 Oregon, there is much resemblance, but that animal is much more like the zic- 

 zac ; itd septary processes are not divaricate and but little separated; the 

 dorsal portion of the septary wall instead of being opposite its ventral portions 

 is opposite thnt of the septum next anterior. The nearest ally is the A. 

 Mathtwsonii Gabb. It appears to differ in the small siphuncle, and obliquely 

 truncate and divaricate septary processes, and the relatively much shorter 

 median or central portion of the septary margins. My friend T. A. Conrad's 

 opinion as to the peculiarities of this species is confirmatory of my own. 



Dr. Leidy read several extracts from a letter of Dr. Gideon Lin- 

 cecum, addressed to Mr. Durand, dated Long Point, Texas, Dec. 24, 

 1865. One of the extracts related an interesting account of an ant 

 battle, witnessed by Dr. Lincecum, as follows : 



"The large, black tree ants have exceedingly destructive wars sometimes with 

 their own species. Like the honey bee, they maintain separate and distinct 

 governments, or hives, and between these, as far as my observation goes, there 

 is no commerce or intercourse of any description. But they have territorial 

 claims and quarrels ; and these quarrels are occasionally decided on the battle 

 field. As they are equal in physical strength and the science of war, the 

 amount of life that is destroyed in one of their national conflicts is sometimes 

 very great. I have seen left on one of their battle fields at least a gallon of 

 the skin. They were not dead, but they were in a far more lamentable con- 

 dition. Their legs having been all trimmed off; they lay on the ground amongst 

 the scattered fragments of their dissevered limbs, wallowing and writhing their 

 legless bodies, in an agony of sullen, mad, hopeless despair. 



This disastrous engagement took place in the little front yard of my office, on 

 the evening of the 1 0th of July, 1855. There were considerable numbers en- 

 gaged in battle when I fi^st observed them. They were madly fighting in a 

 hand to hand conflict, and reinforcements were momentarily arriving to both 

 armies. The battle had now become general, and was raging over an area of 

 15 to 20 feet in diameter. It was 4 P. M., and placing a chair in a convenient 

 situation for observation, I seated myself, for the purpose, if possible, of ascer- 

 taining the cause of the difficulty, and to note their mode of warfare, I was 

 not present at the commencing of the battle, and now, while it was wildly 

 raging, could not find out the cause of it. It was not long, however, until I 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. O 



discovered that the belligerent parties were the subjects of two neighboring: 

 kingdoms, or hives, each of which, as I could distinguish, by the arrival of 

 their reiuforceinents, were coming from two diiferent post-oak trees, which 

 were standing about fifty yards apart, and the office-yard being very nearly the 

 balf-way ground, affjrded me goo-d opportunity to determine that the contend- 

 ing parties belonged to distinct communities, and not to the same hive. 



The battle continued unabated, uutil the darkness of the night pri-venled 

 further observation. Heft them to their fate, with ray feelings so highly excited 

 that I did not rest well that night. Before sunrise the next morning I visited 

 the battle field, and found it thickly strewed with the legless, hapless warriors, as 

 -described above. There could not have been less than 40,000 left on the ground 

 who were utterly incapacitated to help themselves. A few of them had a single 

 leg left. With this they made shift to pull themselves incessantly around in a 

 very limited circle. The larger proportion of them lay prostrate, writhing and 

 doubling, and vainly straining their agonized, limbiess bodies in a stateof mental 

 abandonment and furious desperation. Few were dead. All the dead onfs that I 

 saw, did not exceed perhaps a hundred ; and these were found unirersally in 

 piirs, mutually grappling each other by the throat. With a few of these pairs ot 

 unyielding warriors, life was not entirely extinct. My sympathies being painfnlly 

 excited, I made an effort, where there were signs of vitality, to separate them. 

 In this I did not succeed. On closer scrutiny, I found that they had fixed their 

 caliper-like mandibles in eacb others throat, and were gripped together with 

 such inveterate malignity, that they could not be separated without tearing off 

 their heads. 



I had swept them up in a heap, and as the most humane method of curtailing 

 the wretched condition of the poor, ruined victims of the bloody strife I could 

 think of, was making a hole in the ground, with the iotention of entombing 

 the whole of them, Whig and Tory together, and by filling the grave with water, 

 drown them. But before I had completed ray arrangements, there came a heavy 

 shower of rain, which soon overwhelmed them with mud and water, thereby 

 relieviog me from the pai«ful task. 



It is perhaps nothing amiss to state here, that among the slain — the van- 

 <|uished — I saw no type of the species, except the neutrals, or working type- 

 As on the ensanguined fields of the arrogant genus homo, the conjuring priests 

 and better bloods of the self-created nobility, after raising the /mm, had found 

 it conveniettt to have business i« some safer quarter. 



This ant dwells in live trees, in large swarms, or more properly communities, 

 and f-eds principally on insects. On this account he is useful, ft is a fortu- 

 nate thing for any family to have a large tree near their dwelling that contains 

 a community of this civil but warlike species of ant. 



Near the western corner of my dwel.iug, for eight years, stood a post oak 

 tree — Quercus obtusiloha — which contained a quite populous community of the 

 black tree ant in question. During the eight years that the tree survived, it 

 x^as the custom of these ants to visit every portion of the house, every night in 

 warm weather; search out all hidden cracks and crevices, in walls, bedsteads, 

 and furniture, in fact, travel over every thing about the house, except the 

 clothing; upon any woven texture they do not travel. In ail that eight years, 

 we had no fieas, feed bugs, or any other insect annoyances. But when the tree 

 died, in which they had their home, they went away, and we have missed them 

 much, as, since their departure, we have beeu forced to scald and wash out the 

 house often, to clear it of annoying insects. We should be happy in the ac- 

 knowledgment of our dependence on the services of another such community. 



This species of ant is the largest that is found in Texas, He is quite black, 

 and disdaining the grovelling habits of the burrowing tribes of the genus, he 

 ■constructs his habitation in the live trees. As far as ray observation goes, 

 however, he dwells only in the cedars and post oaks. "Very seldom found 

 an a tree that has been lon^ dead. In the construction of the habitation for the 



1866J 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



uccommodntion of the community, he displays a degree of forethonght, skill 

 nnd ingptuiity, which is arrogantly claimed to belong onlj' to the genus homo. 

 In tbe first place, a single female winged ant selects a live tree, in a locality 

 favorably situated for the peculiar haV)its of the species, and the growth of the 

 insects tjpon which it feeds n)ainly. She now seeks out some smfl}! crevice, 

 dead limb, or wind crack in tlie tree, and cutting off her wings, which are no> 

 longer useful, but in the way, she commences the work of boring and chisel- 

 ing O'lt suitable apartments for tbe coming community. This she accomplishes 

 by cutting away the firm, sound wood of the growing tree, until she has com- 

 pleted a sufficient number of apartments, or cells, in which to deposit her eggs,, 

 and this ends ber labors. Very soon — 12 days — she has produced a swarm of 

 iieutrals, who go to work collecting food and extending the cells to suit the 

 growing population, until, as I have often witnessed, the inner portion of the 

 tree will be cut into singularly constructed cells to tke extent of 6 or 7 feet, 

 without greatly diminishing its strength. " 



Other extracts from the letter, in relation to certain species cf grapes 

 of Texas, are as follows : 



" I am familiar with Buckley's V. monticola, and am pJeased that it has 

 at last been named, and placed in scientific classification. 1 am not right sure 

 that all tbe Texas grapes have yet been noted. I think it quite probable that 

 future industry and clo&e scientific scrutiny will develope other species and 

 varieties, particularly when the investigator penetyates the valleys and gulches- 

 of our exceeding rough mountain ranges." 



" In reference to the Post oak grapes, there are two species here that are- 

 known among the people as the * Post oak grsipeJ They are found in the Pos6 

 oak land?. The one I sent you flourishes best in the very sandy elevations, 

 with the bitter- fruited Post oak. This species does not rise exceeding four 

 or five feet ; it is more of a bush than a vine. The berry is large and sour, buS^ 

 its odor is very fine. The other- species is sometimes found in the same soil, 

 alongside of the first, but more frequently in better soil, always, however,, 

 in Post oak lands, which as a general thing, are more or less sandy. This 

 species is a climbing vine, running over tbe tops of the trees, bearing heavy 

 crops of large gra})es. These are also too sour for a table grape ; they pro- 

 duce a very palatable wine, which, very probably, might be greatly improved 

 by cultivation." 



"Mr. G. J. Durham, (my son in-law,) examined your description of the 

 Vitis monticola to-day. He says Buckley is right about it being the best 

 American grape, but has never seen snich large clusters as you describe; has 

 eat of the fruit, which he describes as maturing in September ; that the berry 

 when ripe, is of a medium size, bright green, sprinkled with black dots, very 

 sweet, and that tbe vine sometimes attains to the height of ten or eleven feet- 

 It is almost universally found among, and clambering on the rocks, on dry 

 limestone elevations. That it is not very abundant, &c., all of which I know 

 to be correct. The other small mountain black grape is more abundant, and is 

 also quite sweet. It occupies lower grounds than the V. montic(j}a,. being fountt! 

 mostly in the heads of the ravines, running on the dogwood trees in such quan- 

 tit es, that be, Durham, has seen them, towards the latter part of September, 

 when the leaves had all shed off, and in many places where the vines had mat- 

 ted the tops of the dogwoods, impart a blue caste to the whole scenery, evera 

 at a mile's distance. Companies of soldiers have been known to subsist upon 

 them alone, two or three days at a time, and no ill results arose from it. This 

 last grape is called by the people of that country, ' sugar grape,' and is highly 

 esteemed by all who have a knowledge of it. They will travel a great way at 

 the proper season to procure them. The soldiers who are stationed in or near 

 the mountains will go 30 or 40 miles afrer them. And yet, I have never heard 

 of an attempt to domesticate either of the mountaia species. 



[Jan, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 7 



ft is at least 150 miles from my place to where they are found ia any degree 

 plenty. The excursions I have made in that direction have always been during: 

 the summer months, consequently I have only seen them in about a half-grown 

 state. All the mature fruit I have seen were brought by travellers from that 

 country." 



February \Z(h. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, ia the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



The following deaths were announced : 



Mr. Charles A. Poulson, Feb. 8, Member. Dr. William P. Grier, 

 U. S. A., Jan. 28, Member- Mr. Lovell Reeve, of London, Corres- 

 pondent. 



February t^tlu 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty- five members present. 



February 27th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The Committee on Proeeedin^js placed on the table the fifth number 

 of the published Proceedings, for November and December, 1865. 



The following gentlemen were elected members of the Academy: 

 Mr. William E. White, Mr. Johu E. Oraeff, Mr. William Evans, Jr., 

 Mr. Edward R. Wood, Mr. Philip C. Garrett and Mr. Charles Harts- 

 home ; and Mr. Geo. W. Clinton, of Buffalo, N. Y., was elected a 

 Correspondent. 



March Qth, 

 Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



March 13 th. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present- 

 Mr. Lea read an extract from a letter of Prof. Courtland, on the 



gradual extinction of the western Unionida6. 



A paper was presented for publication, entitled " A List of Birds of 



Arizona, &c.,'' by Elliot Coues, M. D., U. S. A. 



Prof. E. D. Cope exhibited a cranium of a Black Fish (Globicephalus) found 

 on the western shore of Delaware Bay by Cornelius Gregory. Comparison 



1866.] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



with an example of the same genus from Cape Cod, revealed differences which 

 must probably be regarded as distinctive of two species. The latter is 

 apparently identical with the known species G. me las (or swinevaiyj 

 and agrees with Harlan's description of G, intermedins, and in locality ; the 

 Delaware specimen is of much broader and shorter proportions than any known 

 species, exhibits a narrower supraorbital roof and shorter tooth line. The in- 

 lermaxillaries dilate and entirely cover the maxillaries at the basal two-fifths 

 of the muzzle, which then rather abruptly contracts to the tip. 



G. ? sp. nov. G. m e 1 a s. 



End of muzzle to end malar to length End of muzzle to end malar to length as 



cranium, 2 to 4.5. 2 to 4 5. 



Width at basal fourth equal from notch Width do. four fifths from notch to sup- 

 to supraoccipital and 5-6ths length of raoccip. crest. 



muz.zle. 

 Outlines begin to contract at basal Outlines continuous, nearly paralleL 



2-5ths. 

 Width at distal fourth equal | length Width do. less than half length. 



muzzle. 

 Supraoccipital everted to foramen mag- Supraoccipital straight to foramen mag- 

 num, num. 

 Longitudinal width supraorbital roof, Longit. width sopraorb. equal width, 



I width muzzle at basal third. muzzle at basal third. 



Length of alveolar series scarcely more Length do. equal widtb^ muzzle at 7tb 



than half width of muzzle at seventh tooth. 



tooth. 

 Teetti above, six. Teeth above,, ten. 



Dr. Gray (Catal. Cetaceons Brit. Mus.,) describes a specimen from Gnada- 

 loupe in Mus. Paris, which has the maxillae similarly concealed by the pre- 

 maxillaries. The present individual is an adult male, with the ligamentous 

 attachments on the muzzle, and muscular insertions largely developed. Total 

 length 25 in. 6 lin. ; postorbital width (above.) 



The whale alluded to (Proceedings, 18&5, p. 168) as having been seen in 

 ^lobjack Bay, Virginia, was stated to have been captured by Dr. P. A. Talia- 

 ferro and Prof. E. Taliaferro, of William and Mary College-, Williamsburg, and 

 prepared and set up. It is a short finned Megaptera, probably of the species 

 M. o s p h y i a. Prof. T. has kindly furnished me with the following details as 

 to its structure, carefully drawn up by himself. 



Length from end of muzzle over convexity of back, forty-three feet nine 

 inches } girth about nineteen feet } length from end of muzzle to axilla (ex- 

 ternal measurement) fifteen feet; breadth of bead across inferior margin of 

 jaws, eight feet. Length of the pectoral extremity /owr/eef; greatest breadth 

 nfteen inches ; they were situated close behind the angle ot the mouth. There 

 were three hundred and sixty laminae of balee*, extending on either side or 

 the mouth about six feet along the jaw, the longest about eighteen to twenty 

 inches. The head was acute. The folds of the throat many and capacious. 

 The dorsal fin was represented by a conical mass covered by horny integu- 

 ment, without any membranous appendage, situated well posteriorly. The 

 body near the tail very slender. Tne flukes suddenly expand to a breadth of 

 ten fiet. The cervical vertebrae were all distinct. Color: jet black above, 

 white on the belly; sides beautifully coarbled by the combination of the two 

 colors. 



The most striking feature in this specimen is the shortness of the pectoral 

 limbs, being relatively nearly half less than in the specimen of the o s p h y i a 

 at Niagara, one- half the length of the cranium, and only one-tenth the total. 

 This is very different from any of the hitherto known species, and without 

 doubt distinct. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



March 20th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 

 The following were offered for publication : 



*' List of the Birds of Fort Whipple, Arizona/' By Elliot Coues, M D. 

 " Description of twelve Unionidae from South America." By Isaac 

 Lea. 



" Fasti Ornithologiae, No. 2." By John Cassin. 



Dr. Leidy directed the attention of the members to the specimen of a large 

 phalanx of an extinct reptile, presented this evening by Dr. W. Spillman, of 

 Columbus, Mississippi. It was derived from the cretaceous formation in the 

 vicinity of the latter place, and is remarkably well preserved. It is a first 

 phalanx, and in general form resembles the corresponding phalanges of the 

 Alligator, but is proportionately more robust. The proximal articular surface 

 is moderately concave, somewhat uneven ; and in outline is transverse oval 

 with the lower side flat. The distal extremity is provided with a trochlear 

 articular surface, and deep pits laterally for ligamentous attachment. The 

 animal^to which the bone belonged is unknown ; it may be conjectured to 

 have appertained to the fore foot of Hadosaurus. The measurements are as 

 follows: Length in the axis 5 inches 8 lines ; length laterally 6 inches ; trans- 

 verse diameter of proximal end 2 inches 11 lines ; vertical diameter of do. 2 

 inches 5 lines; transverse diameter of distal end inferiorly 2 inches 5^ lines ; 

 vertical diameter at middle of trochlea 1 inch 6 lines. 



Dr. Leidy next directed the attention of the members to a specimen of the 

 liver of a turkey suspended in alcohol, containing half a dozen cream-colored 

 tumors, from the size of a pea to that of a nutmeg. The tumors examined 

 microscopically appear to have the structure of soft cancer, as usually described, 

 being composed of large nucleated cells in great variety of form. Dr. L. 

 stated that, after having dined on part of the turkey, on making inquiry for 

 the missing liver, the cook had given information, that in consequence of the 

 " white lumps in it, it had not been cooked." On procuring it from the slops, 

 it was found to be in the condition described. Dr. L. took the opportunity of 

 expressing the opinion that an unnecessary degree of alarm had been created 

 in the community in relation to what were considered to be diseased meats, 

 especially such as are infested with parasites. While he most decidedly re- 

 commended the avoidance of the flesh of diseased or unwholesome animals, 

 he thought that all parasites would be destroyed by thorough cooking. 



In answer to a question from one of the members, whether he had noticed 

 Trichina in pork. Dr. L. observed that he had been the first to discover this 

 parasite in the hog ; the discovery having been made twenty years ago, as may 

 be seen by referring to the Proceedings of this Academy for October, 1846, 

 page 107 — 8. This notice had attracted the attention of the German helrain- 

 thologists, as proved by reference to Diesing's Systema Helminthum, vol. ii. 

 page 114, and Leuckart, Untersucbungen ii. Trichina spiralis, pages 6, 18. 



The circumstances under which the Trichina had been first detected in pork, 

 was on an occasion when Dr. L. had dined on part of the infested meat. While 

 eating a slice of pork, he noticed some minute specks, which recalled to mind 

 the Trichina spots seen in the muscles of a human subject only a few days 

 previously. Preserving the remainder of the slice, on examination of it mi- 

 croscopically, he found it full of Trichina spiralis, but the parasites were all 

 dead from the heat of cooking. In conclusion. Dr. L. observed that all meats 

 were liable to be infested with parasites, but that there was no danger from 

 infection if the meats were thoroughly cooked, for he had satisfied himself by 

 experiment that entozoa are destroyed when submitted to the temperature of 

 boiling water. 



1866.] 




10 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



March 27th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



J. A. Heinizelman, Amos R. Little, James C. Parrish, Clemmons 

 Hunt, R. Shelton Mackenzie, Charles B. Durborrow, John Turner, 

 Jrfamuel E Slaymaker, William E. Kehmle, Alfonso de Figauiere, 

 Thomas C. Stellwa^en, M. D., and Charles S. Westcott. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



Robert Gray and William Sinclair, of Glasgow, Scotland; D. C. 

 Collier, of Central City, Colorado; and Eev. Joseph Blake. 



On report of the respective committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



A STUDY OF THE ICTERIDAE. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. Sub-family Agelaiinae. 



1. Genua AGELAIUS, Vieillot. 



(Genus Agelaius, Vielll, Analyse, p. 33, 1816.) 



1. Agelaius. 



1. Agelaius ph(eniceus (Linnaeus.) 



Oriolus phoeniceus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 161, (1*766.) 



Sturnus praedatorius, Wils. Am. Orn. iv. p. 30, (1811. 

 Wilson Am. Orn. pi. 30. Aud B. of Am. pi. 6Y, Oct. ed. iv. pi. 216. 

 An abundant and well known species, diffused throughout the whple of 

 temperate North America. It is nearly related to the two species immediately 

 succeeding, from which it is, however, generally not difficult to distinguish, 

 though all of them much resemble each other when in young plumage. 

 Numerous specimens are in the Acad. Museum, and in the Museum Smithsonian 

 Institution, Washington. Specimens from Yucatan, in the Smithsonian Museum, 

 have the bill more slender and present some other slight differences, aud may 

 be distinct or referable to A. assimilis, Gundlach. 



2. Agelaius tricolor, Audubon. 



Agelaius tricolor, Aud. Orn. Biog. v. p. 1. (1839.) 



Aud. B. of Am. pi. 388, Oct. ed.. iv. pi. 214. 



Numerous specimens in the Academy Museum, and in that of the Smithsonian 

 Institution. Resembles the preceding but is quite distinct specifically, and can 

 be distinguished readily by the different red of the shoulders, less rounded tail 

 and more slender bill, in the present bird. Abundant in the western countries 

 of North America. 



3. Agelaius assimilis, Gundlach. 



Agelaius assimilis. '' Gundl. MSS.," Lembeye, Aves Cuba, p. 64, (1850.) 

 Agelaius assimilis, Gundl. Cabanis Jour. 1856, p. 12. 

 Lembeye, Aves Cuba, pi, ix. fig. 3. 



Restricted apparently to the Island of Cuba, but in the adult male much re- 

 sembling specimens from Yucatan. In this species the female is totally black 

 in which respect it differs from the two preceding species, though the adult 

 male is very similar to that of A. phoeniceus. The young male resembles the 

 female, bnt is usually recognizable by the presence of more or less of the scarlet 

 of the shoulders. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. H 



Specimens in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, and in the collection 

 of Mr. Lawrence of New York. The females and youno: males are uniform 

 brownish black, not in the smallest degree mottled, as in the two preceding 

 species and in A. Gubernator. 



4. Agelaius Gcbernator, (Wajrler.) 



Psarocolius gubernator, Wagl. Isis, 1832, p. 281. 



Aud. B. of Am. pi. 420, Oct. ed. iv. pi. 215. 



Easily distinguished when adult from either of the preceding by its shoulders 

 being uniform rich crimson, without paler margin, though the young much 

 respmble each other. Abundant in western North America. 



Numerous specimens in Academy Museum and Museum Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. 



5. Agelaius HUMERALis, (Vigors.) 



Lpistes humeralis, Vig. Zool. Jour. iii. p. 442, (1827.) 

 La Sagra Cuba, Ois. pi. 5. 



Now well known as a bird of the Island of Cuba. This species is smaller 

 than either of the preceding, and not quite strictly of the same subgroup, 

 having the tail proportionally rather longer and general form apparently more 

 slender. Common iu Cuba. Numerous specimens in the Academy Museum, 

 and Museum Smithsonian Insiitution, and in Mr. Lawrence's collection. 



In this species the females and young males are stated to be black, (as in A. 

 asdmilis, also of Cuba.) A specimen in Mr. Lawrence's collection, which I regard 

 as a young male of this species, is clear uniform black, tho rufous of the shoulder 

 beginning to appear. 



2. Xanthocephalus. 

 (Genus Xanthocephalus, Bonap. Consp. Av. 1. p. 431.) 



6. Agelaius xanthocephalus, (Bonaparte.) 



Icterus xanthocephalus, Bonap. Jour. Acad. Philad'a. v. p. 223, (1827.) 



Agelaius longipes, Swains. Phil. Mag. 1827, p. 436. 



Psarocolius perspicillatus, Wagl^r, Isis, 1829, p. 753. 



Icterus icterocephalus, Bonap. Am. Orn. 1. p. 27, (supposed by Bonaparte, 



to be Oriolus icterocephalus^ Linn.) 

 Icterus frenatus, Licht., Isis, 1843, p. 69. 

 Bonap. Am. Orn. 1. pi. 3. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 388, Oct. ed. iv. pi. 213. 

 In my judgment this species is properly to be arranged as an Agelaius It 

 is an abundant bird of the central and western countries of North America, 

 aud specimens are in all collections in this country, though formerly scarce and 

 highly valued. Straggling specimens, generally of young birds, have occasionally 

 been obtained in the States on the Atlantic, several having occurred, within 

 my knowledge, in the vicinity of Philadelphia. 



This species does not resemble any other sufficiently intimately to render 

 close comparison necessary, and can usually be recognized quite readily. It 

 is handsomely figured by Audubon, and by Bonaparte as above. 



3. Aphobus. 

 (Genus Aphobus, Cabanis, Mus. Hein, i. p. 194.) 

 7. Agelaius chopi, Vieillot. 



Agelaius cbopi, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 537, (1819.) 

 Icterus unicolor, Licht. Verz. p. 19. (1823) 

 Icterus sulcirostris, Spix. Av. Bras. i. p. 67, (1824.) 

 iSpix Av. Bras. i. pi. 64. Hahn Voeg. pt. xvi. pi. 2. 



Specimens obtained by Mr, John G. Bell, at Mazatlan, Mexico, have the bill 

 larger and in general stature are rather more robust than in specimens labelled 

 as from various parts of South America, but otherwise are quite identical. 

 Easily identified in this group by the sharply lanceolate and acuminate form 

 of the feathers of the bead and the oblique grooves at the base of the lower 



1866.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



mandible. My irapresaion at present is, that this bird is properly to be 

 arranged here as a subgenus of Agdaius. 



Numerous specimens in the Academy Museum. In general appearance and 

 in the pointed feathers of the head this bird resembles Leistes curaeua (z=Curaeu8 

 aterrimus) with which it has been sometimes confounded, though much smaller 

 and not, in my opinion, belonging to the same genus. 



4. Ayelasticus. 



(Genus Agelasticus, Cabanis, Mus. Hein, i. p. 188.) 



8. Agelaius THir.ius, (Molina.) 



Turdus thilius, Mol. Sagg. Stor. Nat. Chili, (1782.) 

 Xanrhornus chrysocarpus, Vigors, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1832, p. 3. 

 Thilius major, Bonap. Compt. Rend. 1853, p. 833. 

 Gilliss, U. S. Astr. Exp. Chill, Birds, pi. 16. 



Numerous specimens from Chili in the Academy and Smithsonian Institation . 

 So far as I can see, this bird is an Agelaius^ presenting only somewhat greater 

 attenuation of form than in the more typical species, and in my judgment it is 

 the type of a subgeneric group quite identical with Neopsar, Sclater. This 

 species intimately resembles the next succeeding but is larger. 



9. Agelaius xanthocakpus, Bonaparte. 



Agelaius xanthocarpus, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 430, (1850.) 

 "Icterus chilensis, Kittlitz." Bonap. Compt. Rend. 1853, p. 834. 

 This is a black species with yellow shoulders, much resembling the preceding 

 (^4. thilius) and apparently to be distinguished mainly by its smaller size. It 

 is scarcely to be recognized from the Prince Bonaparte's description in Consp. 

 Av., as cited above, but is clearly indicated by the same distinguished Natural- 

 ist in Comp. Rend. 1853, p. 833. This bird seems to be constantly smaller 

 than the preceding, with the bill disproportionately more slender, the wing 

 shorter and the proportionate lengths of the quills different. 



Specimens of this species in the Mus. Smiths. Inst,, from Capt. Page's 

 La Plata Expedition, were obtained at Buenos Ayres and Santa Fe, Argentine 

 Republic. 



(Genus Neopsar, Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 139 ) 



10. Agelaius nigerrimus, (Osburn.) 



Icterus nigerrimus, Osburn, Zoologist. 1859, p. 6662. 



Neopsar nigerrimus, (Osburn,) Sclat. Cat Am. B. p. 139. 

 An entirely black species, apparently of frequent occurrence in the Island of 

 Jamaica, from whence numerous specimens have been received at the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. Specimens in the Academy Museum, also from Jamaica. 

 Structurally I cannot see that this bird is anything else than an Agelaius, and 

 ot the same subgroup as the preceding. It is more nearly related to the species 

 immediately succeeding, which is also entirely black, from which, however, it 

 can readily be distinguished on examination, by its being rather smaller, the 

 bill more slender and the tarsi shorter, but the most reliable character is the 

 diflferent color of the plumage at the base of the feathers. In the present bird 

 the feathers are dark ashy or nearly black at their base, and in the next (.4. 

 cyanopus,) they are light ashy, abruptly tipped with black. The female in this 

 bird is stated to be black, in which respect it seems to differ from the suc- 

 ceeding. 



11. Agelaius cyanopus, Vieillot. 



Agelaius cyanopus, Vieill. Nonv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 552, (1819.) 

 This apparently Utile koown species is in structure exceedingly like the 

 species immediately preceding (A. nigerrimus=N'eopsar nigerrimus) and the adult 

 males, at least, of both being glossy black, the general resemblance also is very 

 strong. In fact, I had always supposed the two to be identical until I had un- 

 dertaken the present more extended examination, an impression which, though 



[March, , 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 13 



I have never printed, I may have expressed verbally and epistolatorially, and 

 beg now to correct, both for myself and others contingently interested. 



The males only of the two species are alike in color, the female of the present 

 species being strictly as described by M. D'Orbigny in Guerin's Magaziae, 

 Zool. 1838, p. 5, and previously by Azara and Vieillot; reddish chestnut, 

 vi'nh longitudinal central stripes of black on the back and dullish yellow on 

 the under parts of the body. In the Jamaica species (.4. nigerrimus) both sexes 

 are st -ted to be black. The present bird is slightly the larger, with the bill 

 rather the thicker and the tarsus longer, but the most decisive and reliable 

 character is that in this species the entire plumage of the body above and 

 below is light ashy at the bases of the feathers, easily seen in raising them, es- 

 pecially on the rump and lower part of the back. On those parts, in fact, the 

 feathers are, almost throughout their length, light ashy, being only rather 

 narrowly and abruptly tipped with deep black. In A. nigerrimus this is not 

 the case, the feathers being, throughout, much darker and in fact nearly black, 

 widely tipped with deep black. Both birds are strictly of the subgroup 

 Neopsar. 



This bird is accurately described by Azara, Apuntamientos, i. p. 313, 

 (Walckenaer's French edition, iii. p. 190) whose description is copied by Vieillot, 

 Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 552. It is also sufficiently described by D'Orbigny, 

 Guerin's Magazine, Zool. 1828, Syn. Av. p. 5. The sexes, as given somewhat 

 provisionally by these authors, are so labelled in the fine collection made by 

 Mr. Christopher J. Wood, while attached to Capt. Page's Expedition, which 

 surveyed the Rio La Plata and Rio Parana, which collection is now in the 

 Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. The female, and probably the young 

 male, are entirely different from the male in colors, in which respect this species 

 apparently differs in a singular manner from its near relative, Agelaius or 

 Neopsar nigerrimus, numerous specimens of which, labelled as both males and 

 females, are in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, and are entirely 

 black. One of M. D'Orbigny's specimens in the Academy Museum is probably 

 that of a young male, but differing only from the female in having the black 

 stripes of the under parts more numerous and the throat less conspicueusly 

 mottled with black. 



This species seems to be of rather wide diffusion, though apparently but in- 

 differently known to naturalists. Specimens in Academy Museum, labelled 

 " Bolivia," from M. D'Orbigny's collection, and others received from Mr. John 

 G. Bell of New York, in " Bogota" collections. Specimens in Capt. PHge's 

 La Plata collection are labelled, undoubtedly correctly, by Mr. Wood, " Para- 

 guay." 



The points of distinction between the two closely allied species here men- 

 tioned, and especially the infallible character, as I regard it, to be found in 

 the difference of the colors at the bases of the feathers, I am happy to ac- 

 knowledge were first pointed out to me by Miss Grace Anna Lewis, most favora- 

 bly known, and deservedly so, as a lecturer and teacher of Ornithology and 

 General Natural History. Miss Lewis is one of several accomplished ladies who 

 have most diligently studied in the Library and Museum of this Academy during 

 the present winter, and not only successfully, but have contributed also in 

 the highest degree to the general agreeableness of the similar pursuits of 

 their fellow students of the stronger sex. 



5. Macroagelaius. 

 2. Agelaius subalaris, (Boissoneau.) 



Quiscalus subalaris, Boiss. Rev. Zool. 1840, p. 70, 

 Specimens in the Academy Museum labelled " Bogota." Though usually 

 rated as a Quiscalus, this bird, in my opinion, is more properly to be regarded 

 as an Agelaius, though differing frdm the typical subgroups in having a longer 

 and more Quiscalus- like tail. It is not an uncommon bird in collections from 

 the northern countries of South America. 



1866.] 




14 rROOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



II.— Genus LKISTES, Swainson. 



(Genus Leistes, Swains. Zoo!., Jour, ii., p. 191.) 



1. Leistes. 



1. Lristis MiLiTARis, (Linnecus.) 



Emberiza militaris, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 178, (1758.) 

 Oriolusguianensis, Linn. Syst Nat. i. p. 162, (17G6.) 

 Oriolus americanus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 386, (1788.) 

 Xanthornus rubricollis, Hahn, Voegel, pt. v. (1819.) 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 2.36, fij?. 2. Edwards' Birds, pi. 82. Vieill. Gal. ii. pi. 88. 

 Hahn, Voegel, pt. v., pi. 2. 



Numerous specimens of this well known species are in the Academy Museum, 

 labelled as from Brazil and Guiana, and in the Museum Smithsonian Institution 

 from Trinidad. 



2. Lbistes superciliaris (Bonaparte.) 



Trupialis superciliaris, Bonap., Consp. Av., i. p. 4.30, (1850.) 

 Resembles the preceding, but rather larger and easily distinguished by its 

 conspicuous superciliary siripe of white. Specimens in the Academy Museum, 

 labelled Cayenne, and in Smithsonian Museum from Buenos Ayres, and Ceara, 

 Northern Brazil. 



2. Gymnomystax. 

 (Genus Gymnomystax, Reichenbach.) 



3. Leistes melanicterus, (Vieillot.) 



Agelaius melanicterus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p, 544, (1819.) 

 Icterus citrinus, Spix. Av. Bras. i. p. 69, (1824.) 

 Psarocolius gymnops, Wagl., Syst. Av., p. (not paged, 1827.) 



Spix, Av. Bras., i. pi. 66. 



Specimens in Academy Museum from Cayenne and Brazil. 



3. Xanthosomus. 



(Genus Xanthosomus, Cabanis, Mus. Hein. i. p. 189.) 



4. Leistes icterocephalus, (Linnaeus.) 



Oriolus icterocephalus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 163, (1766.) 

 Edward's Birds, pi. 323. Hahn, Voegel. pt. v., pi, 6. 

 Numerous specimens in Academy Museum, from Guiana and Trinidad. 



5. Leistes FLA vus, (Gmelin.) 



Oriolus flavus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 389, (1788.) 

 Psarocolius flaviceps, Wagler, Syst. Av., p. (not paged, 1827.) 

 Chrysomus xanthopygius. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 345, (1838.) 

 Voy. Beagle, Birds pi. 45. 



Specimeus in Academy Museum from Brazil and other countries of South 

 America. This bird presents some variations in size, but nothing of specific 

 value in the specimens under examination. 



4. Pseudoleistes. 



(Genus Pseudoleistes, Sclat. Cat. Am. Birds, p. 137.) 



6. Leistes viridis, (Gmelin.) 



Oriolus viridis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 395, (1788.) 

 Agelaius Guirahuro, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv., p. 545, (1819.) 

 Leistes Suchii, Vigors, Zool. Jour, ii., p. 192, (1825.) 

 Xanthornus Gasquetii, Quoy et Gaim. Voy. IJranie, Ois. p. 110, (1824.) 

 Leistes Orioloides, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 303, (1838 ) 

 Leistes brevirostris. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 304, 

 Zool. Jour. Supp. pi. 10. Voy. Uranie Ois. pi. 24. PI. Enl. 236, fig. 1. 

 Specimens from Brazil in Museum Academy. This species is nearly allied to 

 the next succeeding, but seems to be larger, and has the under parts clear 

 yellow. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 15 



7. Leistbs virescens, (Vieillot.) 



Agelaius virescens, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv., p. 543, (1819.) 



Icterus anticus, Licht. Verz. Doubl. p. 19, (1823.) 



Leistes tenuirostris, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 304, (1838.) 



" Oriolus Draco." Label in Massena collection. 

 Resembles the preceding, but is very probably quite distinct, being smaller, 

 and has the bill more slender. In this species the jellow of the abdomen is 

 restricted to a medial space, the sides being dark brownish olive, uniform with 

 the upper parts of the body. Numerous specimens from Brazil in Academy 

 Museum. 



5. Curaeus, 



(Genus Curaeus, Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 139.) 



8. Leistes CURAEUS, (Molina.) 



Turdus curaeus, Mol. Sagg. Hist. Nat. Chili, 1782. (2d ed. p. 211, 1810.) 



Sturnus aterrimus, Kittl. Mem. Acad. St. Petersb. 1834, p. 467. 



Leistes niger, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 304,(1838.) 



Agelaius pustulatus, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 303 ? 

 Gillis U. S. Exp. to Chili, Birds pL 15. Kittl. Mem. Acad. St. Petersb. 

 Voeg. pi. 2. 



Specimens from Chili in the Academy Museum, and two specimens in the 

 Massena collection labelled " St. Dominique," which if intended for the Island 

 of St. Domingo or Hayti, is very probably erroneous. A large black species, 

 with the feathers of the head rigid and pointed, well known as a bird of Chili 

 and other countries of western South America. Resembles, especially in the 

 pointed feathers of the head, Agelaius chopi, but is much larger. Sturnus 

 aterrimus, Kittlitz, seems to be the young of this species. 



III.— Genus DOLICHONYX, Swainson. 

 (Genus Dolichonyx, Swains. Zool. Jour, iii., p. 351.) 



1. Dolichonyx. 



1. Dolichonyx oryzivora, (Linnaeus.) 



Emberiza oryzivora, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 31 1, (1766.) 

 Icterus flgripennis, Bonap. Corap. List, p. 24, (1827.) 

 Psarocolius cauda<;utus, Wagl. Syst. Av, p. (not paged, 1827.) 

 Cdtesby Carolina, pi. 14. Edwards' Birds, pi. 291. Wils. Am. Orn. ii. pi. 

 12. Aud. B. of Am., pi. 54, Oct, ed. iv. pi. 211. 



Numerous specimens in Academy Museum from various localities in Eastern 

 North America, and two specimens labelled " Rio Negro." Specimens in 

 Museum Smithsonian Institution from Cuba, Jamaica, and from Capt. Page's 

 La Plata collection. The specimens from the " Rio Negro," in the Academy 

 Museum seem to be rather large, but are not in adult plumage, and I find no 

 reliable characters for distinction. Precisely similar specimens from the Rio 

 Napo are in Mr. Lawrence's collection. This species is, assuredly, a great 

 wanderer, but very probably the same in all localities on the continent of 

 America. 



2. Affelaioides, 



2. Dolichonyx badius, (Vieillot.) 



Agelaius badius, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 535, (1819.) 

 Icterus friugillarius, Spix, Av. Bras, i. p. 68, (1824.) 

 Spix, Av. Bras. i. pi. 65. 



Tail black, or brownish black. Quills red, tipped with brownish black. 

 Lores black, which color extends slightly under and behind the eye ; entire plu- 

 mage of the head and body dark cinereous, with an olivaceous tinge on the top of 

 the head and on the back, much lighter and generally with a tinge of dull 

 yellow on the under parts. Primaries and secondaries bright reddish, with 

 their tips brownish black, (easily seen on the under surface of the wing.) ter- 



1866.] 




16 PROOEEDINOS OP TflE ACADEMY OF 



tiaries and greater coverts of the wing brownish black, widely tipped and 

 edged with ferrugineous red. IMIl black, feet brown. Sexes very similar, 

 though the female is less tinged with gray on the head and back. 



Total length about 8 inches, wing 31, tail 3\ inches. Female smaller. 



Jfdb. — HrHzil, Paraguay, Buenos Ayres, Southern Brazil, exclusively? 



Having before me two species which to some extent resemble each other, and 

 both of which I suspect are known by the names cited above, I have given this 

 short description of the bird, which is apparently that described by both 

 Vieillot and Spix, and figured, rather unsuccessfully, by the latter. The present 

 epedes seems to inhabit Southern and South-eastern Brazil, and adjacent 

 countries, but the only authentic specimens to which I have access are in Capt. 

 Page's collection, in Smithsonian Museum, and labelled " Buenos Ayres," 

 which locality agrees suflBciently with those authors who have described this 

 bird. 



In this species the tail is black, usually with a tinge of brown, and moch 

 darker than the back, while in the species next described it is much 

 lighter and exactly of the color sometimes called •' hair brown," but little 

 darker than the upper parts of the body. The quills are red on both webs for 

 about two-thirds to three-fourths of their length, with the terminal one-third 

 or one-fourth brownish black. The entire plumage is darker than in the 

 species immediately succeeding. The description and figures of Spix, cited 

 above, seem to be clearly from birds of this species, though perhaps not fully 

 adult. Vieillot describes this species also. I do not regard it as possible that 

 either this bird or the next succeeding is the young or female of any black 

 species, as sometimes suspected by authors. 



3. DoLiCHONYX FUSCIPENNI8, nobis. 



Tail light brown, quills light brown, primaries narrowly edged on their outer 

 webs, secondaries and tertiaries widely edged on their outer webs, with bright 

 ferrugineous red. Lores black, which color extends behind the eye, and be- 

 comes paler. Entire plumage of the head and body light reddish cinereous, 

 with a tinge cf grayish olivaceous on the upper pans, much lighter on the 

 under parts, and strongly tinged with dull pale ochre yellowish. Greater 

 coverts of the wings ferrugineous red, with paler edges, which is the color of 

 the external edges of the wings, (but not of the quills, as in the preceding 

 species.) Bill and feet brownish black. 



Total length about 7 inches, wing 3^, tail 3 inches. Female rather smaller. 

 Ilab. — Ceara, N. E. Brazil. Specimens in Museum Smithsonian Institution, 

 Washington. 



The bird now described is clearly distinct from that immediately preceding, 

 and is easily distinguished by its lighter and different colors generally, and 

 especially by its light brown tail, and by its quills being light biown also, 

 edged only with red. In the preceding the tail is black or brownish black, 

 and the quills are red on both webs for more than two-thirds of their length, 

 and brownish black at their ends or terminal one-fourth to one-third. 



The only specimens that I have seen of this species are in the collection of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, and are labelled as male and female, and are 

 undoubtedly from Ceara, Northern Brazil. This bird and the immediately pre- 

 ceding D. badius, present some structural characters, which entitle them to be 

 arranged with nearly equal propriety in either Agelaius or in Dolichonyx, but I 

 think not in Molothrua.* 



*= DOUCHONYX MELANCH0LIC08, (LinllEeUS.) 



Oriolus melancholicus, Linn. Syst. JNat. i. p. 180, (1758.) 



Edwards' Birds, pi. 85. 



Judging from the figure and description of Edwards, I suspect that this is a third species of the 

 same subgroup of Dolichonyx as D. badius and D. fusctpennis, (above described,) and at present 

 unknown to naturalists. It is peculiar In having not only the sides of the head, but the throat 

 clear black, which is not the case in either of the others just mentioned, but otherwise it resem- 

 bles them. It is stated by Edwards to be from the " Spanish West Indies," which now properly 

 means those islands that were Spanish in 1743. 



f March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 17 



3. Erythropsau 



4. DOLICHONYX FRONTALIS, (VieiUot.) 



Agelaius frontalis, Viell., Nouv, Diet., xxxiv. p. 5-45,(1819.) 

 Chrysomus et Xanthosomus frontalis, Auct. 



Gray, Gen. Birds, i. pi. 86. 



This is a well known and apparently abundant species of the northern coun- 

 tries of South America, briefly and by no means safliciently described by Vie- 

 iUot as above, but very accurately and handsomely figured by G. R. Gray in 

 his great work, " The Genera of iBirds." The locality given by Vieillot is Cay- 

 enne, and on that account, in a greater degree than on any peculiar applica- 

 bility of his description, I am induced to conclude that this is the species en- 

 titled to the name as above given. The description is short, but, in my opin- 

 ion, can safely be assumed as intended for this bird. 



Head above to near the occiput, and neck before, reddish chestnut or bay 

 color, which extends and widens on the breast. All other parts of the plu- 

 mage glossy black. Lores and sides of the head black, which color is restricted 

 to a very narrow line over the eye. Bill and feet black. Total length about 7 

 inches. 



Hab, — Cayenne; Ceara, Northern Brazil. 



Numerous specimens of this species are in the Acad. Mus. and in Mus. Smiths. 

 Inst. It differs from that immediately succeeding (Z>. ruJicapUlus,) in having 

 the red or bay colors on the head, neck and breast in front much more ex- 

 tended and of a different color, reddish chestnut in the present bird, dark chest- 

 nut in the next succeeding species. The two species are very nearly of the 

 same size. Both are, in ray opinion, most properly to be arranged as a sub- 

 group of the genus Dolichonyx. 



5. Dolichonyx ruficapillus, (Vieillot.) 



Agelaius ruficapillus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet., xxxiv. p. 536, (1819.) 

 Del Corona de canella, Azara, Apuntamientos, i. p. 315, (1802.) 



This species is described as from Paraguay, by Azara, whose description is 

 copied by Vieillot as above, and is, in my opinion, distinct from that immedi- 

 ately preceding (^D. frontalis,) though usually regarded as the same. The only 

 specimens that I have seen are in Capt. Page's La Plata collection now in the 

 Mus. Smiths., and are from Paraguay. 



In this species the head above and neck before are dark chestnut, and on 

 both parts that color is more restricted than in the preceding, but especially on 

 the neck in the present bird, in which it is narrower and does not extend to 

 the breast. All other parts glossy black, on the sides of the head the black 

 space is wider over the eye than in the preceding. In a young bird, al&o in 

 Page's collection and from the same locality, Paraguay, the chestnut color of 

 the neck in front is only beginning to appear, but is the same dark chestnut as 

 in the adult, and quite different in shade from that of the preceding bird. 



Although I regard the present and immediately preceding species as differ- 

 ent, yet if they were the same, the name here given would be entitled to adop- 

 tion, being the first given by Vieillot, though usually cited erroneously by. 

 authors. lo nearly all late works, when the two names A. frontalis and A. ru- 

 ficapillus are given, the pages cited in Nouv. Diet, are transposed. 



IV.— Genus MOLOTHRUS, Swainson. 

 (Genus Molothrus, Swains., Faun. Bor. Am., ii. p. 277.) 

 1. Molothrus, 

 7. Molothrus pecoris, (Gmelin.) 



Oriolus ater, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl., p. 37, (1782.) 



Oriolus fuscus et minor, Gm., Syst. Nat., i. pp. 393, 394, (1788.) 



Fringilla pecoris, Gm., Syst. Nat., i. p. 910, (1788.) 



1866.] 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



Icterus Emberizoides, Daud., Traite d'Orn., ii. p. 350, (1800.) 

 Buff., PI. Eul. GOG. Wilton, Am. Orn., ii. pi. 18. Aud., B. of Am., pi. 99. 

 Oct. ed., iv. pi. 212. 



Dae of the most common birds of North America, migrating in the winter to 

 Mexico, Central America and probably into the northern countries of South 

 America. Specimens are in the Museum of tlie Philada. Acad, from Mexico, 

 and others labelled Central America and South America. The first name for 

 this species is that of Bodda^rt as cited, who applies it to the bird figured by 

 Buffon, as above. 



Toial length 7 to YJ inches, wing 4^ to 4^, tail 2| to 3 inches. 



2. MoLOTHRUs OBscunus, (Gmelln.) 



Siurnus obscurus, Gm., Syst. Nat , i. p. 804, (1788.) 



Sturqus junceti. Lath., Ind. Orn., i. p 326, (1790.) 



Sturnus Novae Hispaniae, Briss. Orn., ii. p. 448. 

 Numerous specimens in the Smithsonian Museum, to which I ascribe this 

 name, are from Mr. Xantus' collections at Colima and Manzanillo, Western 

 Mexico, and from Mira Flores, Lower California. This species is distinct from 

 the preceding, but much resembles it in colors and form also, having the same 

 long wings and proportionate lengths of quills, the first quill being usually 

 longest. It is smaller and has the bill much more slender ; the wing is shorter 

 and all other measurements less than those of the preceding well known spe- 

 cies, except the tail, which is comparatively longer. In colors it is very nearly 

 the same, but in form it is more slender and smaller, with the tail rather longer. 

 iQne specimen from Lower California has the first quill shorter than the second, 

 but otherwise is quite the same as those from Manzanillo. 



Total length about 6^ to 6| inches, wing 4, tail 2| to 3 inches. 



2. Callothrus. 

 .3. MoLOTHRUS ^NEUS, (Wagler.) 



Psarocolius aeneus, Wagl., Isis, 1829, p. 728. 



Molothrus robustus, Cab., Mus. Hein, i. p. 193, (1851,) Jour. Ore. 1861, p. 

 ,^81. 

 -Specimens in the Smithsonian Museum from Yucatan, Costa Rica, and vari- 

 ous parts of Mexico, and it is evidently an abundant species. Those from Ma- 

 zatlan and Manzanillo seem to have the bill larger than others, and in some 

 specimens this is so much the case as to suggest a doubt of specific identity. 



This bird presents such very considerable changes in the shades and lustres 

 of its plumage, that it mig^ht readily be mistaken for several species. The ftdult 

 has the entire plumage of the head and body of the rich silky metallic yellow- 

 ish-green, which characterizee the species, the upper and under tail coverts, 

 wings and tail being lustrous green and blue. Singularly enough, in younger 

 specimens the back and a large space on the abdomen are fine deep lustrous 

 blue and violet, having so much the appearance of adult plumage, that series 

 of specimens are necessary to determine their really intermediate character. 

 Nearly all specimens brought in collections are of this intermediate description, 

 and in a younger plumage there is a trace of blue, violet and purple lustre on 

 nearly the entire plumage. The youngest in the large collection now under 

 examination are dull brown, with a faint trace of greenish lustre on the wings 

 and tail only, and of blue on the back. Forty-two specimens are now before 

 me, twenty-four of which are from the Smithsonian collections, others are from 

 the fine collection of my friend Mr. Lawrence, of New York, and in the Acad- 

 emy Museum. The Academy specimens are from Panama, (Mr. J. G. Bell's,) 

 Nicaragua, Xalapa, Mazatlan, (Dr. Gambel's,) and various specimens received 

 from Europe, labelled "Mexico." 



,4. MoLOTHRua Armenti, Cabanis. 



Molothrus Armenti, Cab,, Mus. Hein., i, p. 192, (1851J Jour. Orn., 1861, 

 p. 82. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 19 



One specimen in adult plumage kindly lent to me for examination with other 

 interesting birds of this group, by my friend Mr. Lawrence, of New York. 

 Another specimen, which I suppose to be this species, is in quite young plumage, 

 and was received at the Academy in a collection from Demarara. The latter 

 appears to be younger than those described by Dr. Cabanis in Mus. Hein, as 

 above. 



This species can only be identified from Dr. Cabanis' note in Jour. Orn., 1861, 

 p. 82, the previous descriptions by him being only applicable to young plu- 

 mages. It resembles and is allied to the preceding, but is smaller, and the 

 lustre of the head and body is quite different, being silky yellowish brown, not 

 <ireen as in M. eeneus. This brown lustre is darker than in the head oi M.peco- 

 ris, but if restricted to the head might readily suggest a comparison with that 

 species, as is done by Dr. Cabanis in Mus. Hein., as above. It is a beautiful 

 species. 



Adult. Smaller than M. seneus^ bill more slender, wing with the third quill 

 slightly longest, first shorter, tail rather short. Entire plumage black, the head 

 and body with a rich silky yellowish-brown lustre ^ upper and under tail coverts, 

 wings and tail with rich purplish blue and green lustre, the blue prevailing on 

 the tail coverts and shorter quills. Bill black, feet brownish black. 



Total length about 1^ inches, wing 4, tail 2f inches. 



ffab. — Savanilla, New Grenada. Collection of Mr. George N. Lawrence, New 

 York, 



Young? Entire plumage dull brown, lighter on the under parts, and with a 

 faint trace of green on the wings and tail, and blue on the back. First quill 

 shorter than the third, and about equal to the fourth. Total length about 6 

 inches- 



Jlab. — Demarara. Mus. Acad., Philada. 



Mr. Lawrence's specimen is the only adult of tkw species that I have seen, 

 and, so far as I know, the only adult specimen known in any collection. It is 

 a species with very fine rich lustre and perhaps the most handsome bird of this 

 group. 



3. Cyanothrus. 



5.. MoLOTHRUs B0NARIENSI8, (Gmeliu.) 



Tanagra bonariensis, Gm,, Syst. Nat., i. p. 898, (1*788.) 



BuflF., PI. Enl. 710. " Le Tangavio de Buenos Ayres," Buffon. 



Specimens, undoubtedly of the bird figured and named as above, are in the 

 Smithsonian Museum, from the same locality as that given by Buffon, (Buenos 

 Ayrea,) and are peculiarly valuable in the recognition of this species. They 

 were obtained by the expedition under Capt. T. J. Page, U. S. Navy, which 

 surveyed the Rivers La Plata and Parana, and are quite reliable in point of local- 

 ity. 



This bird is rather the smallest of four species nearly allied and resembling 

 each other, which I am about to enumerate. My opinion is that there are at 

 least this number of species of these nearly related birds, and I suspect that 

 there are more of which I have only seen immature specimens. 



Bill in adult, moderate or rather slender, with the upper mandible narrower 

 than the under viewed laterally, and slightly curved ; wing long, second quill 

 longest ; tail moderate or rather short, composed of wide feathers, slightly 

 rounded at the end. 



Plumage black, the entire upper and under parts of head and body having a 

 uniform purple violet lustre, diff'ering in shade in different specimens, but always 

 uniform above and below. Shoulders also with purple lustre. Wings and 

 tail with green lustre, not very brilliant, but easily distinguished ; under tail 

 coverts also with green lustre. In fine adult specimens there is a tinge of pur- 

 ple lustre on the wing coverts and on the shortest quills. Bill and feet black. 



Total length about 8 inches, wing 4|- to 4J, tail 3J inches. 



Hab. — Southern and southeastern South America, Buenos Ayres, Rio Para- 



1866.] 




20 PROOEEDINQS 07 THE ACADEMY 01 



na, Paragunj, Brazil. Spec, in SraithsoQian Museum, Washington, and Acad. 

 Mus., Pbilada. 



About the size of, but scarcely recognizable from Buffon's figure. The spe- 

 cies is, however, entirely respectable, and entitled, by all the laws of ornitho- 

 logical genealogy, to bear the name here given. A female or young male 

 from Buenos Ayres, in Capt. Page's La Plata collection, is nearly uniform dark 

 grayish fuscous, darker and nearly black on the back, and lighter on the under 

 pans of the body. Quills and wing coverts edged very distinctly with pale 

 gray, nearly white on the edges of the quills. Bill and feet black. 



6. MoLOTHRUs DiscoLon, (Vieillot.) 



Passerina discolor, Vieill., Ency. Meth., iii. p. 939, (1823.) 

 Molothrus atronitens. Cab., Schombg. Guiana, iii. p. 682, (1848.) 



Specimens from the Island of Trinidad, and one from Cuba, in the Academy 

 Museum, seem to be the bird described by both the authors cited above. These 

 specimens are undoubtedly authentic, the former having been collected under 

 the direction of Mr. J. G. Bell, of New York, in Trinidad, and most kindly fur- 

 nished by him for examination, and the specimen from Cuba, collected by the 

 late Mr. R. C. Taylor of this Academy, in the northern part of that Island, 

 (Port Gibara, province of Holguin.) 



This bird is exceedingly like the preceding, though it is rather larger and 

 has especially large legs and feet. The color and lustres are nearly the same, 

 though the present bird seems always to have a large space on the lower abdo- 

 men, green, uniform with the under tail coverts. My opinion is that it is a 

 distinct species, though requiring further investigation. 1 have never seen an 

 authentic female specimen. 



Resembling M. bonariensis, but larger. Bill rather long, upper mandible 

 slightly curved, wing long, second quill longest, lail moderate, rounded, feet 

 strong. Entire plumage black, the head and body above and below wi'h an 

 uniform purple violet lustre, except on the lower abdomen or ventral region 

 and the under tail coverts, which have green lustre. Shoulders with purple 

 lustre. Wings and tail with green lustre not very strong, but very similar to 

 that of same parts in M. bonariensis. 



Total length 8^ to 9 inches, wing 4\ to 4J, tail 3^ inches. 



Bab. — Trinidad, Cuba, Northern South America ? Spec, in Mus. Acad., 

 Philada. 



Scarcely to be distinguished from M. bonariensis, but is larger in all its 

 measurements, and especially in total length and in the bill and feet. Possibly to 

 be regarded as a variety of the same species. This bird has not previously 

 been noticed under any name, to my knowledge, from the island of Cuba. 



7. MoLOTHBDS PUBPURASCENS (Hahn). 



Xanthornus purpurascens, Hahn, Voeg. As. Af., &c., pt. v. pi. 4, 1819. 



Hahn, Voeg. As. Afr., &c., pt. v. pi. 4. 



Specimens from Callao, Peru, collected by the late Dr. Gambel, others 

 labelled as from Callao and Lima, and others labelled " Mexico " in Acad. 

 Museum. This is a species about the size of the two preceding, but readily 

 distinguished from thtm by its large strong bill, and the golden yellowish- 

 purple lustre of the under parts of the body. It is a clearly distinct species, 

 and appears to be the bird figured by Hahn, as above cited, whose figure is 

 rather too short, but in form generally, and especially the thick strong 

 bill, and the color of the upper parts, is a fair representation. The immature 

 plumage is entirely different from that of either of the preceding. 



Rrtther larger than M. bonariensis, and about the size of M. discolor, and 

 easily distinguished by its stronger bill and the golden purple lustre of the 

 plumage of the under parts of the body. Bill rather long, strong upper man- 

 dible slightly curved, wing long, with the third quill longest, tail moderate, 

 not 80 much rounded as in the preceding species. 



Entire plumage black, head above and upper parts of body with a violet 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 21 



purple lustre, under parts with a rich golden purple lustre^ most conspicuous 

 on the breast and neck in front ; under tail coverts with green lustre. Shoulders 

 purple, wings and tail with green lustre. 



Total length about 8 to 8J inches, wing 4^\ to 4^, tail 3j to 3J inches. 



Young. General colors light yellowish and dull brown, much like young 

 Plocei or Xanthorni. Upper parts dull light brown, plumage edged with dull 

 yellow, under parts pale dull yellow, with longitudinal stripes of pale brown. 

 Bill very strong. 



Bab. — Western South America, Pern, Mexico? Spec, in Mus. Acad., 

 Philadelphia. Probably peculiar to the countries of Western South America, 

 and an entirely respectable species. 



8. MoLOTHRus SBRicEUS (Swainson). 



Scolecophagus sericeus, Swains. Oat. Cy., p. 301, (1838). 



Molothrus brevirostris. Swains. Cat. Cy., p. 305, (1838) ? 



Icterus sericeus, Licht. Verz. Doubl., p. 19, (1823) ? 

 Specimens from Bahia, from which locality this bird is commonly brought, 

 and is apparently the common species of Eastern South America. Rather 

 larger than, but difficult to distinguish from, the species immediately preced- 

 ing, {M. purpuraseens^) and has the same golden purple lustre on the plumage 

 of the under parts of the body. The bill is straighter, and not so strong, and 

 the second and third quills nearly equal. 



Though commonly brought from Bahia in collections, I have not a sufficient 

 number of specimens in adult plumage for a satisfactory examination of th's 

 bird, though I am inclined to the opinion that it is not quite identical with 

 either of the preceding. Specimens that I regard as M. brevirostris appear to 

 me to be the same as others also from Bahia, which I regard as M. sericeus, 

 probably differing only in age. This seems to be rather the largest speries of 

 this group, though, perhaps, little larger than M. seneus or M. purpurascens, and, 

 though my opinion is favorable, I am under the necessity of regarding it as a 

 species of but imperfect respectability. It is certainly, I think, the bird 

 described by Swainson, as above, and probably also by Lichtenstein under the 

 eame name. 



4. Cyrtotes. 



(Genus Cyrtotes, Reiehenbach.) 



9. MoLOTHRDS MAxiLLARis, (D'Orbiguy et Lafresnaye). 



Icterus maxillaris, D'Orb. et Lafres. Mag. Zool., 1838, p. 6. 



D'Orb. Voy. Am. Mer. Ois., pi. 52, fig. 3. 



Two specimens from M. D'Orbigny's collection are in the Academy Museum. 

 This curious bird, in color and general characters, intimately resembles the 

 last four species above given, but also much resembles the birds of the group 

 Lampropsar. Of the species here given as Molothri^ it approaches most 

 closely M. bonariensis and M. discolor, and has the lustres of the plumage very 

 similar, but is larger than either, and, in fact, is rather larger and with longer 

 wings than either of the preceding species in this memoir. It is, in my judg- 

 ment, entirely a peculiar bird, and described, entirely judiciously, hy the dis- 

 tinguished authors above cited as a distinct species. 



The peculiar character of this bird is the singular lobe on the cutting edge 

 of the upper mandible, as stated by M. D'Orbigny, near the point, and which, 

 if met with in a single specimen, might readily be suspected of being a 

 deformity, as intimated by the greatest of European Ornithologists now living: 

 " rostra deformiV This suspicion and general view of the case is, however, to 

 me rendered less cogent by the fact that I have before me two of M. DOrbigny's 

 specimens, and they are like each other with much exactness ! In both the 

 adult specimens, this curious lobe is more strongly developed than as repre- 

 sented in M. D'Orbigny's figure above cited. 



This bird is accurately described by M. D'Orbigny, as above cited, and also 



1866.1 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



io Voy. Am. Mer. Ois., p. 3GT. It is with doubt tbat 1 arrange this bird as 

 representing a subgroup, and am not without a suspicion that it is more 

 properly to be i)laced in the group Jjampropsnr. The only specimens that I 

 have seen are those of M. D'Orbigny, above alluded to, and this species seenas 

 to be little known to naturalists. 



5. Lampropsar^ 



(Genus Lampropsar, Cabanis, Schombg. Guiana, iii. p, 682.) 



10. MOLOTHRUS TANAGIIINUS, (Spix). 



Icterus tanagrinus, Spix, Av. Bras., i. p. 67, (1824). 



Icterus violaceus, De Wied, Beitr. Naturg : Bras., iii. p. 1212, (1831). 



Spix, Av. Bras., i. pi. 64, fig. 1. 



Total length about 7^ inches, wing 4, tail 3 to 3| inches. Entire plumage 

 black, with a nearly uniform purplish blue lustre on the head and body, above 

 and below, wings and tail with a green lustre. Bill and feet black. 



The smallest of several species of this genus, and brought abundantly in 

 collections from Brazil. In the various specimens now before me, this bird 

 presents a uniform purplish blue lustre, by which it can be easily distinguished 

 from either of the two species immediately succeeding. It has not quite the 

 fine purple and violet lustre of either of them. Numerous speeimens in the 

 Academy Museum. 



11. MoLOTHRUS G0IANEN8IS, (Cabanis). 



Lampropsar guianensis. Cab. Schombg. Guiana, iii. p. 68'2, ("1848), 

 Total length about 8 inches, wing 3| to 4, tail 3^ inches. Raiher larger 

 than the preceding, with the wing rather shorter, comparatively, and third 

 quill slightly longest. In the specimens before me, this species is easily dis- 

 tinguished from the preceding by the violet purple lustre of the head and of the 

 upper and under parts of the body. Wings and tail with greenish lustre, 

 darker than in the preceding. In colors, this species resembles the next suc- 

 ceeding, though scarcely more than half the size. It appears to be from 

 Northern South America. 



Specimens of this species are in the Academy Museum, and in the collection 

 of that distinguished and excellent Ornithologist, Mr. George N. Lawrence, of 

 New York. 



12. MoLOTHRUS Cabanisii, nobis. 



Lampropsar dives. Cab. Mus. Hein., p. 194? (nee Bonap.) 

 Total length about 10 inches, wing 5 to 5|^, tail 4J inches, bill strong, 

 though of the same general form as in both the preceding. Entire plumage 

 black, head and body, above and below, with a fine violet purple lustre, and 

 having a golden tinge on the under parts. Wings and tail with a dark green 

 lustre, bill and feet black, claws rather long and slender, but very sharp. 



Easily distinguished from the two preceding species by its much larger size, 

 and, in the specimens now at my disposal, the plumage is the most lustrous, 

 the golden violet purple in the present bird being especially a distinguishable 

 feature. I am not confident that this is the bird alluded to by Dr. Cabanis as 

 Lampropsar dives, as above cited, but regard it as probable. It is smaller than, 

 and generically distinct from the bird which seems to be L. dives, Bonap. 

 Comp. Av. i. p. 425, now well known as a bird of Mexico and Central 

 America, (and vihich I regard as the same as Quiscalus sumichrasti, De 

 Saussure). 



One specimen in the Acad. Mus. is from Guiana, and another in the col- 

 lection of my friend Mr. Lawrence, is from Santa Martha, New Grenada; 

 others in Acad. Mus. are without indication of locality, though the species is 

 singularly uniform in characters in all the specimens now under examination. 

 To this handsome species I have taken the liberty of applying the name of my 

 excellent friend and correspondent, Dr. Cabanis, of Berlin, not bo much 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 23 



because I suspect that this is the bird alluded to by him, as to avail myself of 

 aa opportunity to express my high appreciatioa of his great merits and 

 acquirements as an Ornithologist. 



13. MOLOTHKUS RUFO-AXILLARIS, nobis. 



With a part of the axillary feathers clear reddish chestnut color. 



Entire plumage black, head and body, above and below, with a bluish purple 

 lustre, wings and tail with an obscure greenish lustre or nearly plain black. 

 Bill and feet black. 



Total length about 8| inches, wing 4|, tail 3^ inches. 



Hah. — Buenos Ayres. Spec, in Smithsonian Mus., Washington. 



Uiie specimen only of this curious bird is in the Museum of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, and seems clearly to belong to this group, though not presenting 

 such highly lustrous plumage as either of the preceding. It is apparently 

 quite adult, and easily recognized by the reddish chestnut-colored axillary 

 feathers, to be seen at once by raising the wing at the shoulder. 



Though having all the characters of an adult bird, the plumage in this 

 specimen has but slight lustre, inclining to bluish purple on the head and 

 body, and greenish on the wings and tail. The only specimen that I have 

 seen is in the fine collection made by Mr. Christopher J, Wood, while attached 

 to Capt. T. J. Page's La Plata Expedition, which is now in the Museum of the 

 Smithsonian Institution."^ 



v.— Genus STURNELLA, Vieillot, 

 (Genus Sturnella, Vieill. Analyse p. 34.) 

 1. Sturnella. 



1. Sturnella ludoviciana, (Linnaeus.) 



Sturnus ludovicianus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 290, (1766.) 

 Alauda magna, Linn. Syst. Nat, i. p. 167, (1758.) 

 Cacicus alaudarius, Daud. Tr. D'Orn. ii. p. 325, (1800.) 

 Sturnella collaris, Vieill, Nouv. Diet, xxxii. p. 203, (1819.) 

 Catesby, Carolina, pi. 33. Buff. pi. Enl. 256. Vieill. Gal. Ois. ii. pi. 90. 

 Wilson Am. Orn, iiu pL 191. Aud. B, of Am. pi. 136. Oct. ed iv. pi. 223. 



An abundant bird of Eastern North America, carefully described by the 

 authors cited above, and by Prof. Baird in Birds of N. A. p. 535, and accu- 

 rately figured as above given. The specific name " magna^^' has undoubted 

 priority for this species, and I only object to it and do not use it at present on 

 account of its singular inappropriateness to this bird as a species of the genus 

 Sturnella or Little Stare. Sturnella magna, or Great Little Stare, strikes me as 

 approaching absurdity, if that is possible, or any fault in ornithological nomen- 

 clature I I will in no wise molest scientific persons whose tastes may be differ- 

 ent in this matter, however, and so promise. 



This bird is nearly related to all of the next four species of this genus, 

 equally in structure and in colors, and it would be difficult to describe by 

 positive characters either species of this group, so as to insure recognition 

 absolutely, or without comparative characters being given. All the species 

 can be identified from the excellent descriptions in Ibis, 1861, p. 179, by Dr. 

 Sclater of London, and the best descriptions of the two species of the United 

 States are by Prof. Baird in Birds of N. A. p. 535. No other genus or sub- 

 genus of this family presents so many spec'es of such uniformity of structure 

 and similarity of colors, and there are, assuredly, iQ-vf such in the entire king- 

 dom of birds. 



2. Sturnella neqlecta, Audubon. 



Sturnella neglecta, Aud. B. of Am. Oct. ed. vii. p. 339, (1844.) 

 Aud. B. of Am. Oct. ed. vii. pi. 489. 

 An abundant bird of Western and Central North America. Generally paler 



* Lampropsar Warczewiczi, Cab. Jour. Orn., 1861. p. S3, may be another epecies of this gr^,up. 



1866.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



colored than the preceding, and with the transverse markings of the upper 

 parts narrower, and, as pointed out by Prof. Baird, (B. of N. A. p. 538), the 

 yellow of the throat seems generally to extend around under the eye and at 

 the base of the under mandible in this bird more than in S. ludoviciana. The 

 two species are about the same size. 



Numerous specimens in the Academy Museum and in the Museum Smithso- 

 nian Institution. In the central regions of North America it is possible that a 

 hybrid race between the two species may be produced, to be referred with 

 about equal propriety to either. Usually, and having some degree of experi- 

 ence with these two species, it is not difficult to distinguish them at sight, 

 though such consummation to be surely brought about, would require elabo- 

 rate descriptions in words. 



3. Sturnklla hippocrbpis, Wagler. 



Sturnella hippocrepis, Wagl. Isis, 1832, p. 281. 



Smaller than either of the preceding, and having the pectoral black collar 

 much more narrow. This species is very nearly related to the next succeed- 

 ing {S. mexicana,) and can scarcely be distinguished from it by any characters 

 which seem to be reliable. It is, however, in my opinion, clearly distinct from 

 S. ludoviciana and S. nefflecta, and all the characters are present in the speci- 

 mens before me, which are stated with his usual great clearness and accuracy 

 by Mr. Lawrence, in an interesting memoir on the birds of Cuba, in Annals 

 N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 266. In the present species the tertiaries are nearly or 

 quite equal in length to the primaries, while in S. ludovicianus they are much 

 shorter, which character is especially stated by Mr. Lawrence and seems to be 

 quite correct. 



Numerous specimens from Cuba are in the Museum Smithsonian Institution, 

 and this bird seems to be peculiar to that island. The peculiarities pointed 

 out by Mr. Lawrence stand good in all specimens of this bird now under 

 examination. 



4. Stdrnblla mexicana Sclater. 



Sturnella mexicana, Sclat. Ibis, 1861, p. 79. 

 Very nearly related to the preceding, [S. hippocrepis^) if distinct, and I give 

 it, at present, as a species provisionally only. Smaller than S. ludoviciana and 



5. neglccta, but perhaps rather more closely resembling the latter in colors. 

 Pectoral black collar narrow. The colors of the upper parts seem to be less 

 clearly defined, and of a slightly different style and pattern from the preceding, 

 and it may bear about the same relation to that species (-S". hippocrepis') that 

 S. neglecta does to S. ludoviciana. Such relation I hold to be rather probable 

 from the specimens now at hand. 



Specimens from Mexico in Academy Museum, and in Museum Smithsonian 

 Institution from Mexico and Guatemala. 



5. Sturnella merjdionalis, Sclater. 



Sturnella meridionalis, Sclat. Ibis, 1861, p. T9. 

 Quite distinct, in my opinion, from either of the preceding. Fully as large, 

 apparently, as S. ludoviciana ^ with the tarsus slightly longer, and larger toes and 

 flaws, bill longer and more pointed. Black pectoral collar narrow as in 



5. hippocrepis and >S'. mexicana^ but with tertiaries short as in S. ludoviciana. 

 One specimen from Brazil, in Museum Smithsonian, and others of doubtful 



locality, but South American, in Museum Academy. This species seems to be 

 the peculiar South American form, and is apparently rather the largest bird of 

 this closely allied group. Its characters are carefully and accurately stated by 

 Dr. Sclater of London, as above cited, though the species seems to be little 

 known to ornithologists. 



2. Trupialis. 

 (Genus Trupialis, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 429.) 



6. Sturnella militaris, (Linnaeus.) 



Sturnus militaris, Linn. Mant. p. 527, (1771.) 



[March , 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Well known as a bird of Chili and other countries of Western South America. 

 In this species the under wing coverts are white, and the fine scarlet of the 

 throat and breast extends over the abdomen. 



Numerous specimens in the Academy Museum, and in Museum Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



7. Stcrnella loyca, (Molina.) 



Sturnus loyca, MoL, Dizz. Stor. Nat. Chili, (1782,) 2d ed. p. 212, (1810.) 



Sturnella bellicosa, De Filippi. 



Pezites brevirostris, Cab., Mus. Hein., p. 191, (1850.) 



Leistes albipes, Philip, et Landb. Trosch. Archiv., 1863, p, 128? 

 This is apparently a smaller bird than the preceding, with a shorter and 

 thicker bill, and the scarlet of the under parts is restricted to the throat, neck 

 and breast, not extending on the abdomen as in the preceding. One fine ap- 

 parently adult specimen now before me has the tibise clear white on their inner 

 surfaces, mottled with black on their outer, in which plumage it seems to be 

 Leistes albipes^ Philip, et Landb., as above cited. The under wing coverts are 

 white, as in the preceding. 



The synonymy of this species I find to be diflScult, but it is not improbable 

 that it was first described by Dr. Cabanis as above cited, authors to the con- 

 trary notwithstanding. Specimens in Mus. Acad. 



8. Sturnella Db Filippii, (Bonaparte.) 



Trupialis defilippii, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 429 (1850.) 

 Easily distinguished from either of the two preceding by its black under wing 

 coverts. Specimens from Brazil in Museum Academy. 



3. Amblyramphus. 

 (Genus Amblyramphus, Leach, Zool. Misc. p. 81, 1815.) 



9. Sturnella holosericea, (Scopoli.) 



Xanthornus holosericeus. Scop. Flor. et Faun. Insub. p. 88, (1786.) 

 Oriolus ruber, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 388, (1788.) 

 AmL>; f-amphus bicolor. Leach, Zool. Misc. i. p. 82, (1815.) 

 Sturnus pyrrhocephalus, Licht. Verz. Doubl. p. 18, (1828.) 

 Sturnella rubra, Vieill. Ency. Meth. ii. p. 635, (1823.) 

 Leistes erythrocephalus. Swains. Cab. Cy. Birds, ii. p. 275, (1837.) 

 Leach. Zool. Misc., i. pi. 36. 



Numerous specimens of this apparently common species are in the Academy 

 Museum from Brazil. Easily recognized when adult, by its brilliant scarlet 

 head, and tibiae and black body. The young is nearly uniform dull black, the 

 scarlet generally first appearing on the throat and forehead. 



This species ends the subfamily Agelaiinae, but I am not quite confident 

 that the genera or subgenera Creadion, Vieillot, and Amblycercus, Cabanis, do 

 not belong here. Such may be the case also with Hypopyrrhus^ Bonaparte. 

 At present, however, my impression is, that all of these have greater affinities 

 in other groups of the family Icteridoe. 



A Critical Review of the Family FR0CEILARIID.2E :— Fart III ; embracing 

 the FULMARE.S;. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES, A. M., M. D. 



[Continued directly from page 144 of these Proceedings for 1864.»] 



The Fulmareoe, as I would define them, form a group of the Procellarinot 

 represented as far as is now known by only three genera. These are Fulmo' 

 ruSf Thalasseica and Ossifraga ; all closely allied in general form and propor- 



• The writer's protracted residence in Arizona, where books and specimens were alike unat* 

 tainable, has unavoidably delayed until now the continuation of the series of papera begun in 

 1864. Efforts will now be made to finish the subject. 



1866.] 




-6 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



tions, though presenting considerable diversity in coloration. The genus 

 Adamasfor which has been placed among the Fulmars by Bonaparte, seems, 

 as I liave attempted to show in aprevious paper,"**" to fall mo>t naturally among 

 the PuJ/ine<c ; being not widely separable from Majaqueus, which Bonaparte him- 

 self (Consp. Av. ii. p. 200) places among the Shearwaters. The position of the 

 somewhat anomalous genus Daption is a little uncertain ; possessing, as it 

 does, some of the characteristics of the present group. I am of opinion, however, 

 that it is most naturally to be included with the yTJstrelateie, under which 

 section I shall hereafter consider it. 



The section Fulmarem then, as thus constituted, is composed of large or 

 moderate sized species, having a form very stout, compact, and robust, and 

 being nearly always very light colored. It is apparently the section of Pc4rels 

 most closely allied to the Larid<e, and forming the connecting link between 

 the two families. Particularly in the genus Thalassoica ii the Laridine 

 aspect very marked. 



The bill is always large and robust. The unguis of the upper mandible 

 is strong, very convex in profile, and much hooked at the extremity. That of the 

 lower mandible is never much attenuated nor decurved, with the outline of 

 the gonys decidedly concave ; but is short, stout, obtuse, with a straight as- 

 cending gonys. The nasal tubes are prominent, wide, long, vertically trun- 

 cated, iisually emarginated at their end ; the nasal septum very thin and deli- 

 cate. The wings are of moderate length, reaching when folded about to the end 

 of the tail ; the primaries are very broad. The tail is short ; more or less 

 rounded ; of 14 to 16 feathers, all of which are broad and subtruncated at their 

 extremities. The feet are comparatively small and weak. The tarsus is 

 slender, compressed, reticulated, shorter than the middle toe. The outer toe 

 is as long or longer than the middle one. The tip of the inner claw about 

 reaches to the base of the middle. 



Of the three genera which I regard as the components of this section, Ossi- 

 fraga has 16 rectrices, while Fulmarus and Thalassoica have but 14. Of Fal- 

 marus we at present know three species ; of Thalassoica, two ; while Ossifraya 

 has but a single representative. The section is cosrnopolitau. 



FULMARUS Leach. 



Procellaria sp., Auctorum ; nee Linn. 



Fulmarus, Leach, Stephen's Gen. Zool. 1825, xiii, p. 233. Type Proc. glacialis L. 



Rhantistes, Kaup, Sk. Ent." Eur. Thierw. 1829, p. 37. Same type. 



Gen. Char, Bill about two-thirds as long as the head, three-fourths as long 

 as the tarsus ; short, very stout, exceedingly robust at the base, where it is 

 higher than broad ; the lateral laminae of the upper mandible especially large, 

 and swollen ; the unguis short, very stout, convex in outline, commencing to 

 rise almost from the nostrils ; commissure greatly curved ; the outline of 

 inferior mandibular rami a little concave ; the gonys ascending ; the sulci of 

 both mandibles deep and distinct ; the nasal tubes long, nearly half the cul- 

 men, prominent, inflated, their dorsal outline about straight, their apex emar- 

 ginate, vertically truncated ; the nasal septum very thin. Wings of moderate 

 length ; reaching when folded about to end of tail ; the primaries very broad 

 at their bases, somewhat rapidly tapering to their rounded tips. Second pri- 

 mary nearly as long as the first. Tail of 14 rectrices, all broad, subtruncated ; 

 the lateral ones somewhat graduated. Feet rather small and weak ; the 

 tibiae exposed for a short distance ; the tarsi slender, moderately compressed, 

 about three fourths as long as the middle toe and claw. Outer toe and claw 

 about equal to middle toe and claw ; the toe alone longer than the middle 

 without its claw. Inner toe very short, the tip of its claw barely reaching to 

 the base of the middle claw. Hallux short, only observable as a stout obtuse 

 subconical claw. 



* Vide Pr A.. N. S Ph. f .r April, 1864, p. 117. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 27 



Large in size, and very robust in form. Colors white and light pearl blue, 

 with darker primaries. 



As above defined, the genus Fulmarus is restricted to its type glacialis, 

 and the two other closely allied species pacijicus and llodgersii. 



As is the case with all the genera of the family, the name Procellaria has 

 been applied to the present genus. As I have already indicated,* I consider P. 

 pelagica and its congeners as typical of the genus Procellaria. Fulmarus appears 

 to be the first distinctive appellation of the present group ; having priority 

 over Rhantistes of Kaup. 



The type of this genus is subject to variations in size, etc., remarkable even 

 in this variable family. In consequence, several races or varieties have been 

 described and named ; which I think are properly to be included under ghci- 

 alis. I recognize as valid the three following species. 



Fulmarus glacialis (Linn.) Steph. 



Procellaria glacialis, Linn., S. N. 1766, p. 213 ; et auct. nee Pall., nee Forst. 

 Fulmarus glacialis, Stephens, Gen. Zool. 1826, xiii. p. 234, pi. 27. Bona- 

 parte, Tonsp. Av. ii. 1856, p. 187 ; et al. auct. recent. 

 Fulmarus glacialis, var. Audubonii, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. 1856, ii. p. 187. 

 Fulmarus glacialis var. minor, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. 1856, ii. p. 187. 

 ^^Procellaria minor, Kjserb," fide Bp. 

 ^^Procellaria hjemalis,^' Brehm. 



Habitat. North Atlantic Ocean. 



This species has served as the basis of so many nominal species, caused by 

 its great variations, that, although no description of it is needed, it may be 

 well to notice the differences to be found whenever large series are compared. 



Examination of numerous specimens convinces me that the differences in 

 color are those of age and season chiefly if not wholly ; since the species passes 

 very gradually from the uniform dull greyish brown of youth to the pure white 

 and pearly blue of the adult condition. There do not seem to be any very 

 well defined stages during this transition. Birds of the year, before the autum- 

 nal moult, are entirely fuliginous gray, lighter beneath, with darker margins to 

 the feathers of the back and wing coverts. The tail is about concolor with 

 the rest of the plumage. There is an angular anteocular black spot. The bill 

 and feet are of a dull yellowish or ashy brown. After the moult, the pearly 

 blue of the back extends upon the nape and head ; (just as it does in Rissa 

 tridactyla ;) and the upper tail coverts, and the rectrices are of the same color. 

 The primaries are colored the same as in the mature bird. Spring and summer 

 adults have the pearl blue restricted to the back and wing coverts ; other parts 

 of the body being pure white. The distribution of colors is then just as in 

 Larus canus, argentatus, etc. The dark anteocular spot however seems perma- 

 nent. The bill is wholly yellow ; the feet yellow with a bluish tint. 



The variations in size are carefully to be noted ; since, taken in connection 

 with a varying length and robustness of bill, they have given rise to nominal 

 species. The average length appears to be about 16*5 inches; there is how- 

 ever a margin of one or even two inches both above and below this standard 

 to be allowed. The wing measures from the carpal joint to the tip of the 

 longest primary, from rather less than 11 to 12-5 inches. The average length 

 of the bill (chord of the culmen) is 1*5 ; but it may be 1*33 or 1-66, with a 

 corresponding difference in robustness. Young birds are always weak-billed. 

 The tail ranges from about 4 to about 5 inches. The average of the tarsus is 

 about 2 inches: of the middle toe without its claw, 2-25 ; both varying to 

 the extent of a fourth of an inch or rather more. The feet however as a general 

 rule differ less in dimensions than other parts. 



The synonomy of this species is very brief and uninvolved ; the points re- 



1866.] 



* Proc. A. N. S. Philad'a. March, 1864, p. 79. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



quiring considerations being hardly more than those relating to the varieties 

 or supposed species which have been separated from it. 



I have before me a rather small and weak-billed specimen from Greenland, 

 which appears to be an example of what was called P. minor by Kjrerb, or P. 

 glaciatis var. minor by Bonaparte. It has no claim that I can discover to be 

 considered as even a variety ; as the diflference in size from the ordinary 

 standard is by no means uusual. In the var. Auduhonii of Bonaparte — based 

 upon the bird used for the figures in Audubon's works — there is exhibited a by 

 no means unusual variation in size, or in strength of bill. 



While I would thus consider the Atlantic Fulmars as representing but a 

 single species, nothing that I have found in an extensive series tendg to invali- 

 date the claims of F. pacijicus to specific distinction. 



FnLMARUB PACipicus (Aud.) Lawr. 



Procellaria glacialis, Pallas, Zoog. Rosso-As. ii., 1811, p 312.. Sed non Linn. 



nee auct. 

 Procellaria pacijica, Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. p. 331. Id Bds. N. Amer. vii. 



1844, p. 208. 

 Procellaria (Fulmarus) pacifica, Lawrence in Baird s B. N. A. 1858, p. 826. 

 Fuimarus glacialis var. pacificus, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. ii. 1856, p. 187. 

 ? Procellaria glacialis (juniores), Kuhl, Beit. Zool., 1823, p. 141. 



This species, though very closely allied to glacialis, and requiring a rather 

 careful comparison to distinguish it, yet appears to differ by constant char- 

 acters. It is nearly or quite as large as that species ; but the feet are, per- 

 haps, a little shorter and weaker. There seems to be a constant difference in 

 the shape of the bill ; which, though not much shorter, is considerably 

 weaker, more compressed, and more attenuated and decurved at the tip. The 

 inferior mandibular rami divaricate at a more acute angle. But I have not 

 been able, in examining quite a large series, among which is one of Audu- 

 bon's types, to find any distinctive characters in the nasal tubes ; the dorsal 

 outline of which does not appear to be straighter than that of the Atlantic 

 bird. In fact, one example of pacijicus hu;s a more concave tube than one of 

 glacialis^ now before me ; nor can I discover that the carination of the tubes 

 is more marked in one species than in the other. One example of pacijicus 

 shows no trace of any carination. 



Some features of coloration are, perhaps, most distinctive of this species. 

 The upper parts are much darker in pacijicus than in glacialis ; inclining to a 

 bluish cinereous rather than a pearly blue. The rump and upper tail 

 coverts, in lieu of being nearly pure white, are concolor with the middle of 

 the back, or even darker than it. The bend of the wing, and the secondaries 

 and tertials are somewhat deeper-colored than those of glacialis. The bill is 

 bright yellow, lightest on the unguis ; the root of which latter is bluish 

 horn-colored. The feet are bright yellow, only slightly obscured on the 

 outer aspect of the tarsus, and on the outer toe. The anteocular spot is 

 smaller and more indistinctly marked than in glacialis. 



Young birds have the yellow of the bill obscured by brownish or greenish, 

 the unguis especially being quite dark, as are also the feet and toes. The 

 entire plumage is fuliginous grayish brown ; deepest on the side of the head ; 

 lighter on the under parts of the body, where there is considerable of a smoky 

 cinereous tint. Most of the feathers of the upper parts have cinereous or 

 pearly tips. Some of the tertials are more or less distinctly tipped with 



f;rayish white. The remiges and rectrices are brownish black ; the former 

 ightest, inclining towards their tips to grayish. The primary shafts are 

 light brown, deepening in color at their apices. The under surfaces of the 

 primaries are cinereous gray. 



I thus detail the diflFerences I have been able to find between the two sup- 

 posed species, considering them as sufficient to establish a species ; though 



[March, 




k 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2% 



with equal reason they might be held as indicative of the extreme of varia- 

 tion of a single cliangeable type, and thus forming only a local race or geo- 

 graphical variety. 



The Procellaria glacialis of Pallas in all probabilty refers to this species 

 rather than to the true glacialis of Linnieus. I also think that the '* Procel- 

 laria glacialis, juniores ex America Septentrionali allat«, colore cinerascenti- 

 fuliginoso tinctse " of Kuhl's "Beitrage," p. 141, belongs here rather than to 

 the Thalassoica glacialoides to which Dr. Schlegel has referred it. 



FuLMARUs RoDGERSii Cassiu. 



Fulmarus Rodgersii, Cassin, Cat. Birds North Pacif. U. S. Expl. Exped., in Pr. 

 A. N. S. Ph. 1862, p. 290. 



Habitat. — North Pacific Ocean. 



I have before me Mr. Cassiu's original and type specimen. With exactly 

 the size and very nearly the form of F. glacialis, it differs from the latter 

 very decidedly in color, as will be seen by the following comparative de- 

 Bcription : 



The bill is bright yellow, except the base of the unguis of the upper man- 

 dible, which is bluish black. The middle of the back, the scapular feathers 

 and some of the lesser wing coverts are a rather dark grayish ash, approach, 

 ing the hue that is most distinctive of pacijicus. The rump and upper tail 

 coverts are pure white. The rectrices are fuliginous grayish ash ; their inner 

 webs and their extreme apices whitish, their shafts wholly yellowish. The 

 whole of the tertials and the greater wing coverts are pure white ; the lesser 

 wing coverts and edge of the wing of the same color, but marbled with the 

 ashy hue of the back. The secondaries are white with yellow shafts; the 

 terminal half of their outer webs grayish brown. The primaries are dull 

 brownish black, their entiie shafts yellow, their inner webs to within an 

 inch of their tips white. These markings of the primaries are much like 

 those of Thalassoica glacialoides. All the rest of the body is white. The 

 legs and feet are bright yellow ; the outer aspect of the tarsus, aud the outer 

 toe somewhat obscured by dusky. The nails are ochraceous brown. 



Bill along chord of culmen 1*50 inches and hundredths ; from feathers on side 

 of lower mandible to its apex 140 ; nasal tubes "60 ; height of bill at base -80 ; 

 width about the same ; wing from the carpus 12-25 ; tail 5*50 ; exterior 

 rectrices '75 shorter; tarsus 2-00 ; middle toe and claw 2*60 ; inner do. 2 20. 



Some differences in the shape of the bill of this species are readily recog- 

 nizable. It is even stouter than that of glacialis, being at the base fully as 

 wide as high ; and the lateral laminae of the upper mandible is bulging and 

 convex rather than straight. The nasal tubes are larger, broader, more 

 depressed, with no traces of median longitudinal carination. Independently 

 of these discrepancies, it is to be distinguished from glacialis by the restric- 

 tion in extent and deep hue ot the color of the back ; by the white tertials 

 and coverts, dark rectrices, yellow primary shafts, amount of white on inner 

 webs of primaries, etc. 



But a single specimen is known to exist in any collection. No. 21304 of 

 the Smithsonian Register. From the North Pacific, the precise locahty not 

 known. 



THALASSOICA Reich. 



Procellaria sp. auctorum. 



Thalassoica, Reichen^ach, Syst. Av. Type P. glacialoides, Smith. 



Priocella, Homb. et Jacq. Same type ; fide G. R. Gray. 



Gen. char. Bill slightly shorter than the head, or tarsus, about three- 

 fifths the middle toe and claw ; higher than broad at the base, compressed, 

 not very robust, its sides regularly tapering to the rather thin tip. Unguis 

 attenuated and only moderately hooked ; commissure a little curved, outline 

 of inferior mandibular rami, and of gonys, both slightly concave. Nasal 



1866.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tubes two-fifths as long as the culmen, basally wide and depressed, termin- 

 ally high and compressed. Feet rather small ; tarsus much compressed, as 

 long as the inner toe without the claw ; about three-fifths the middle toe. 

 Wings and tail as in Fulmai-us. 



This genus differs from Fahnarus in little except the bill ; in which, how- 

 erer, the distinction is well marked. The bill has, notwithstanding the 

 presence of the nasal tubes, an aspect which is Laridine to a degree not 

 found in any other genus of the family ; and the pattern of coloration in the 

 type of the genus is almost precisely that of a Larus. 



Two species are known to compose the genus. Intimately allied in form, 

 their colors ure more widely diverse than is usually found to be the case in 

 congeners of this family. 



Thalassoica glacialoides (Smith) Reich. 



Procellaria glacialis, Forster, Descr. Anim. ed. Licht. 1844, p. 25, No. 21. 



Nee Linn., nee auct. al. 

 Procellaria glacialis, Var. B., Gm. S. N. i. 1788, p. 563. Lath. Ind. Orn. ii. 



1760, p. 823. 

 Procellaria glacialoides. Smith, Illust. S. Afric. Bds. t. 51. 

 Thalassoica glacialoides^ Reich. Syst. Av. Bonaparte Consp. Av. 1856, ii. 



p. 192. 

 Thalassoica glacialoides var. polaris, Bp. Consp. Av. 1856, ii., p. 192. 

 Thalassoica glacialoides var. tenuirostris. Bonaparte, Consp. A v. 1856, ii. 



p. 192. 

 Procellaria tenuirostris, Audubon, Orn. Biog., 1839, v., p. 333. Id. Birds 



North Amer. vii. 1844, p. 210, (fig. nulla.) Lawrence, in Baird's 



B. N. A., 1858, p. 826. 

 Procellaria Smithi, Schlegel, Monog. Proc. Mus. Pays Bas, 1863, p. 22. 

 Priocella Garnoti, Homb. et Jacq. Voy. Pole Sud, pi. 32, fig. 43 ; fide GI-. R. Gray. 

 Habitat. — Southern hemisphere generally, apparently replacing the F. 

 glacialis. Columbia River and whole Pacific Coast of North and South Ame- 

 rica. Cape Horn. Cape of Good Hope. Atlantic and Pacific coasts of Africa. 

 Not in the North Atlantic ? 



The sulci on the sides of the bill, uniting the lateral laminae with the un- 

 guis, are remarkably narrow, shallow, and indistinct ; and the bill in other 

 respects calls forcibly to mind that of a small Lams argentatus. The colors of 

 the back, and of the primaries even to the white spaces on their inner webs, 

 and the size and shape of the feet and tail are rather those of a Laridine than 

 a Procellaridine bird. 



Nasal tubes a third the length of the culmen, basally broad and depressed,: 

 terminally narrower and elevated ; their dorsal outline concave, subcarinated, 

 their tip deeply emarginated ; nasal septum very thin, and so short as not to 

 reach the end of the nasal tube. Culmen flattened from tube to unguis ; latter 

 much elevated and very convex. Shape of lower mandible that of Larus. 

 Tarsus much compressed, shorter than middle toe without its claw ; hardly 

 exceeding the inner toe alone. Outer toe without its claw longer than the 

 middle. Folded wings reach to end of tail. Primaries broad, tapering rather 

 suddenly to their rounded apices. Tail contained 2^ times in the wing from 

 the carpal joint. 



Bill yellow ; nasal tube, unguis and sometimes basal portion of superior 

 lateral mandibular laminae, bluish horn. Feet yellow. Upper parts uniform 

 clear pearl blue ; exactly the shade that obtains in some species of Larus. 

 This color begins as a faint wash or shading on the nape, deepening as it pro- 

 ceeds backwards until on the interscapular region it has gained its full inten- 

 sity ; which continues undiminished over the whole back, rump, wing coverts, 

 tertials and tail coverts, to the tips of the rectrices themselves. The feathers 

 just along the edge of the wing, however, are grayish slate. Primaries black, 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



their shafts yellowish white at the base, changing to black towards their apices ; 

 their inner webs pearly white near their tips. This white on the first primary 

 extends to within two inches of the tip ; on the rest successively extends nearer 

 the tip of each, till on the innermost it occupies the whole web. Secondaries 

 slaty black on their outer, white on their inner webs. Elsewhere the bird is 

 pure white ; except a small anteocular dusky spot ; and a faint shade of pearl 

 gray on the sides of the breast and body, and on the flanks. 



Dimensions. Length 18 to 19 inches, extent of wings about 36. Bill along 

 culmen 2, from feathers on side of lower mandible 1*75 ; its height or width 

 at base "70 ; nasal tubes '66. Wing from the carpus 13. Tail 5*25. Tarsus 2 ; 

 middle toe and claw 2-60 ; outer 2-70 ; inner 2-25. 



There is no other species towards which the present bears an intimate re- 

 semblance. Th. antarctica is exceedingly dissimilar in color, though so nearly 

 the same in form. The generic peculiarities — especiallyof the bill — of Fulma- 

 rus glacialis er pacijicus at once distinguish the latter. 



Synonymy. The Proc. glacialis of Forster's Descriptiones Animalium is un- 

 doubtedly this species. The expressions regarding the nasal tube — " coerules- 

 cens in rostro incarnato,* -apice nigro"; and regarding the primaries — " fusco- 

 nigrae, margine interiore albido, " are quite inconsistent with the true glacialis. 

 This is the only instance I have met with of the application of the name ^^gla- 

 cialis " to this species. 



The Procellaria tenuirostris Audubon is most certainly this species. I have 

 compared Audubon's type specimen with specimens of undoubted g I icialoides 

 from various localities. Mr. Cassin has shown (U. S. Expl. Exp. 1858, Birds, 

 p. 409) that possibly Audubon's designation has priority over that of Smith. 



I do not suppose that the var. polaris of Bonaparte's Coaspectus is in any 

 way diverse fr^m the true glacialoides. 



I hardly know upon what grounds Dr. Schlegel has laid aside the prior names 

 of this species to give it the appellation " Smithi.^^ 



Thalassoica ANTARCTICA Reich. 

 Procellaria antarctica, Gmelin, S. N. 1788, i. p. 565 ; et auct. 

 Thalassoica antarctica, Reichenbach, Syst. Av. t. 22, fig. 790. Bonaparte, 

 Consp. Av. 1856, ii. p. 192. 



In this species there is the same general character of the nasal tube as in 

 T. glacialoides ; though it is comparatively a little broader and shorter, and 

 somewhat less carinated on the median dorsal line. The sulci uniting the 

 ditferent laminae of the bill are ratlier deeper and more distinct, taking away 

 something of the Laridine aspect, so marked in the other species. The lateral 

 rostral lamina is wider at its base, and tapers more rapidly to the acute apex 

 by which it is united to the unguis. The tip of the lower mandible is more 

 decurved, and the gonys is a little concave. 



The coloration of this species is so peculiar, and so widely dissimilar from 

 any other Procellaridian, that it is needless to give any description here. The 

 species has I believe no important synonyms. 



OSSIFRAGA Hombr. et Jacq. 

 Procellaria sp. Gmelin, et auct. 

 Ossifraga, Hombron et Jacquinot. 



Char. Tail of 16 rectrices, moderately long, rounded. Wings rather short, 

 and not very pointed. Tarsi short, much less than the middle toe without its 

 claw ; compressed, stout, reticulated. Bill as long or rather exceeding the 

 tarsus, very robust; the nasal case very long, depressed, carinated, the aper- 

 ture small. Of immense size and powerful organization. 



* "Bill black and flegh-colored, the latter hue fading to whitish on drying," I find on the 

 label of a Bpeciinen collected by the North Pacfic Exploring Expedition. 1 note this her* 

 because the bill is generally described as '' yellowish " and to shuw how pertinent is Forster's ex- 

 pression " incarnato, apice nigro." 



1866] 




82 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMl OF 



But a single species of this genus is known ; which in size vastlj exceeds 

 all other Pruc*llurin(K, and is only itself surpassed by the Dioinedinas. 



OssiFRAGA aioAKTEA (Qm.) Reicli. 



Procellaria gigantea, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. 1788, p. 563. Lawrence, Birds N. A. 



1858, p. 825, et al. auct. 

 Ossifraga giqantea, Reichenbach, Sjst. At. t. 20, fig. 332. Bonaparte, Consp. 



Av. l'8r.5, ii. p. 186. 

 f Procellaria brasiliana, Latham, Ind. Orn. 11, 1790, p. 821, No. 2. Gm. S. N. 



i. 178, p. 564. 

 Procellaria ossifraga, Forster, Descr. Anim Ed. Licht., 1844, p. 343. 

 " Quebranthuesos ; '' '^ Botiebreaker.'' Vulgo. 

 Habitat. Chiefly the Southern Seas. Has been taken oflFthe Coast of Oregon. 

 Bill exceedingly robust, compressed, higher than broad at the base ; longer 

 than the head, rather longer than the tarsus (chord of the arc of the culmen 

 about equal to the tarsus ;) sulci separating the rostral laminae very distinctly 

 defined. Nasal case very long, more than half the length of the culmen* ; 

 basally exceedingly broad, being nearly as wide as the bill ; narrowing ante- 

 riorly to the small nearly circular apical orifice ; on the upper surface so flattened 

 as to be a little concave ; the median carination strongly marked, though the 

 ridge ii rather broad than sharp, and more elevated anteriorly than at the 

 base ; the apex of the case vertically truncated, not emargined. The frontal 

 feathers extend in an obtuse angle a little way upon the root of the case. 

 Unguis large and strong, its dorsal outline very broad and not sharp ; regularly 

 decurved, its tip rather obtuse. Commissure much sinuate4 for its whole 

 length. Gape of mouth moderate, the angle of the commissure falling far 

 short of the eye. Outline of lower mandibular r imi about straight : angle of 

 gonys obtuse, its dorsal outline straight, ascending. Feathers of the chin ex- 

 tending quite to the symphysis. Feet very large and stout. Tibiae bare for 

 a considerable portion of their extent. Tarsus short, stout, much compressed, 

 reticulated : the plates minute posteriorly and superiorly ; larger and trans- 

 versely very broad on the infero-anterior aspect. Toes very long ; the outer 

 with its claw as long as the middle ; its claw alone shorter than that of the 

 middle toe. Webs full. Hallux a very stout, nearly straight, subconical, 

 obtuse claw. Wings short ; not very pointed : when folded falling considerably 

 short of the end of the tail. Tail of moderate length, or rather short for this 

 group ; much graduated ; of 16 instead of as usual 14 feathers. 



Dimensions. Averaging about 3 feet in length by 7 in extent. Bill 3J 

 to 4 inches. Tarsus 3^. Middle toe and claw 5| : outer do. about the same ; 

 Inner do. 4^. Wing from the carpal joint about 20 inches. 



The species is found in quite diverse states of plumage. The upper parts are 

 of a varying shade of brown, and more or less mottled with dull white, the 

 edges and tips of many of the feathers being thus colored. Often however there 

 are no traces of this white mottling, and the dorsal plumage is of a uniform 

 sombre fuliginous. The wings and tail seem to be nearly always plain dark 

 brown. In adult birds the under parts, and a portion of the neck in front are 

 white. The amount of this white varies with age ; and young or immature 

 birds have the whole under parts similarly colored with the rest of the body ; 

 though the hue is usually rather lighter and duller. The gradations in color 

 between old and young are very gradual ; scarcely any two specimens, not 

 perfectly mature, being found exactly alike. The feet of some specimens are 

 yellowish, more or less obscured by dusky ; of others are uniform fuliginous 

 brownish black. The bill is yellow in all the specimens I have seen. As a re- 

 markable state of plumage which I do not recollect to have seen given, I may in- 

 stance a specimen in the Philadelphia Academy, which is pure white all over, 



• But its length seems liable to some considerable variation. I believe it always extends nearly 

 or quite to the root of the unguis. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 83 



even to the wings and tail ; the continuity of the white only interrupted by a 

 few isolated brown feathers sparsely scattered at irregular intervals over the 

 body. Other specimens in the Academy Museum are in very nearly the 

 plumage described by Gmelin and Latham as P. Brasiliana ; so that there can 

 be little doubt of the propriety of referring the latter to this species.* 



The species and genera treated of in this paper are so few and so well known 

 that an analytical synopsis does not seem to be required. 



(To be continued.) 



Description of twelve new species of UNIONIDJE from South America. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



The species described and figured in this paper were procured in South 

 America by Don Patricio M. Paz, of Madrid, and very obligingly submitted to 

 me. Some of them fortunately were in alcohol, thus preserving the soft parts, 

 which are of great interest. These have been carefully examined and described, 

 and it will be observed that the South American characteristics of the outer 

 hard parts, as well as the included soft parts, which seem to pertain to the 

 Uniones of that continent, are here exhibited. I allude more particularly to the 

 round palpi, or mouth lips, and the divergent /aids of the tips of the beaks, neither 

 of which have I observed in our North American species. Very little atten- 

 tion, heretofore, has been given to the soft parts of the Unionidce of South. 

 America, and none to the embryonic shell, except by myself. M. d'Orbigny, in bis- 

 Voyage dans PAmerigue Meridional, has imperfectly described and figured the 

 soft parts of some of the genera. Spix, in his Tesiacea Fluviatilia Braziliensia,. 

 takes no notice of the soft parts of the species, which he describes and figures 

 with much accuracy. 



Unio pecdliaris. — Testa laevi, quadrata, compressiuscula, inaequilaterali^ 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda : valvulis crassiu8culis,antiee aliquant© 

 crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, ad apices divaricati undulatis; epi- 

 dermide virido-fusca, eradiata; deniibuscardinalibus parviusculis, compreesis, 

 obliquis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis curvis- 

 que; margarita caerul^o-alba et iridescente. 



Embryonic Shell subtriangular, light brown ; dorsal line rather long and 

 straight; side margins irregular and unequal — one being a segment of a 

 circle, the other an irregular curve line — forming an obtuse angle at the base : 

 basal margin obtusely angular and furnished with hooks ; granulate over the 

 whole surface. 



Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M, Paz. 



This very peculiar and unique form is now for the first time observed. Its 

 unequal lateral margins give it an abnormal and lapsided appearance, totally 

 differing in this from any other species known to me. 



Unio firmus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subiuflata, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 et antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice aliquanto crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis ; epidermide viridi-fusca, eradiata; dentibus cajdinalibus 

 subcrassis, compressis ; in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis,. 

 lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita argentea et valde iridescenle. 



Ilab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Unio rugososulcatcs.— Testa sulcata, triangulari, subinflata, subequila- 

 terali, postice biangulata, antice oblique rotundata; valvulis percrassis, 

 antice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibu? ; epidermide olivacea, ruposo sul- 

 cata, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, rugosis, elevatis ; later- 



* Bonaparte (Consp. Av. ii. p. 172) makes tne Procellaria brasiliana Gm. Lath, to be the bird 

 now knowa as OraciUus or Phalacrocorax brasilianus. 



1866.] 3 




84 PROOEEDINQS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



alibns sublongis, subcrassis, .lamellatis subcurvisque; margarita argentea 

 et iridescente. 



llab. — Central America? Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Unio apprimus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, inflata, inrequilaterali, postice emar- 

 ginata, obtuee angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis percrassis, antice crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus subprominentibus, ad apices divaricate undulatia ; epidermide 

 castanea, micanti, substriata, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus grandi- 

 bus et valde partitis ; lateralibus prselongis, lamellatis, curvaiia et decora 

 granulatis; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



liab, — South America, Don Patricio M. Pai. 



Unio locellus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, valde inflata, insequilaterali, postice 

 Bubrotuiidata, antice subtruncata ; valvulis tenuibus ; natibus subprominenti- 

 bus, turaidis, ad apices divaricate undulatis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, 

 obsolete radiata, antice striata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, valde compressis, 

 valde obliquis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus; lateralibus parviusculis, lamel- 

 latis ; margarita cseruleo-alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Butnos Ayres, South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Unio parous. — Testa laevi, late elliptica, subinflata, valde inaBquilaterali ; 

 postice subrotundata, antice rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice aliquanto 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices divaricate undulatis ; epidermide 

 polita, tenebroso-oliva, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, obliquis 

 iHmellatisque ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita caeruleo- 

 alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Unio acdtirostris. — Testa laevi, oblonga, ad latere compressa, valde inae- 

 quilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice truncata ; valvulis crassiusculia, 

 antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, nigris- 

 cente, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus, parviusculis, in utroque vaWulo sul- 

 cato divergente ; lateralibus praelongis aliquanto curvatis granulatisque ; 

 margarita alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Unio ampdllaceds. — Testa laevi, suboblonga, valde inflata, insequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice cras- 

 sioribus; natibus subprominentibus, inflatis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, 

 rugoso- striata, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, obliquis, lamellatis 

 corrugatisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Unio Paraguayensis. — Testa laevi, elliptica, inflata, sublenticulari, valde 

 inaequilaterali, postice et antice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassi- 

 oribus; natibus vix prominentibus ; epidermide viridi-fusca, obsolete radiata; 

 dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, obliquis, compressis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis curvisque; margarita argentea 

 et valde iridescente. 



.0a6.— ^Paraguay, South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



MoNocoNiXYLflEA LENTiFOBMis. — Testa laevi, rotundata, lenticulari, valde inae- 

 quilaterali, pastice rotundata, antice curta rotundaque ; valvulis subcrassis, 

 antice crassioribus; natibus prominentibus, ad apices acuminatis, retusis; 

 epidermide tenebroso-oliva, striata, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvius- 

 culis, tuberculatis ; margarita albida et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz, 



MoNOCONDYL(EA Pazii. — Testa laevi, obovata, inflata, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice rotundata, antice curta rotundaque ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice ali- 

 quanto .crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, tumidis, retusis ; epidermide 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 85 



tenebroso-oliva, striata, eradiata^ dentibua cardinalibus subcrassis, com- 

 presso-tuberculatis, subelevatis ; margarita alba et valde iridescente. 

 Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz. 



Anodonta Pazii. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, valde inflata, inaequilaterali, 

 postice et antice rotundata^ valvulis crassiusculis; natibus subprominentibus, 

 acuminatis; epidermide tenebroso-n 

 punicea et formossissime iridescente. 



Hab. — South America, Don Patricio M. Paz, 



FASTI OBNITHOLOOIJE, 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



Woe be to the man who reads but one book I — Rev. Otorgt Herbert. 

 My starvling bull. 



Alack for m«. 

 In pasture full 

 How lean is he! 



Rtv. Thomas FuUer, 



No. 2, 



Der Natubforschbr. 

 A Journal for Natural History^ edited by J. C. Z>, Schreber and J. E. J. Walch, 



" Der Naturforscher " was published at Halle from the year 1774 to 1804, 

 that is to say, during a period of thirty years, one part or volume every year, 

 though it is usually bound in fifteen volumes, octavo. Each of the thirty parts 

 is, however, separately paged and has a title pag« and date of its own, and must 

 toe considered and treated as a volume for all practical purposes. The first thir- 

 teen volumes are edited by Walch, the last seventeen by Schreber, both of whom 

 are contributors of a large number of papers in various departments of the Zoo- 

 logical and Botanical Sciences. In Zoology the papers of both are mainly on 

 groups of the Invertebrata, but the latter occasionally has a valuable article on 

 other subjects and higher orders of animals, and is the eminent and successful 

 author of sta«dard and elaborate works on Mammalogy. 



The illustrations in this Journal are generally very superior, many of the 

 colored plates, of Insects and Shells especially, being much above the average 

 of those of a similar description to be found in books of the last century, and 

 all of them seem to be quite sufficient for the easy recognition of species. 

 There are about one hundred and fifty plates in the series, nearly all of which 

 are carefully colored, those of Insects being the most numerous, but of Shells, 

 also, there are a very considerable number. Special allusion will be made to 

 the plates of Birds towards the end of this paper. Of the contents of the en- 

 tire work as published. Indices and " Registers" are given at the end of every 

 tenth volume, apparently very copious and accurate, and from which it appears 

 that no less than six hundred and four memoirs in all departments of Natural 

 History are contained in these thirty volumes. In Ornithology the contribu- 

 tions are not numerous, and contain but few descriptions of species, but of those 

 few descriptions, nearly all the names proposed would stand good were it not 

 for the recently exhumed names of Prof. P. L. S, Miiller. The authors of these 

 contributions are, for the greater part, ^uite unknown in modern times as or- 

 nithological writers. 



" Der Naturforscher " seems to have been a very considerable journal in its 

 day, and names amongst its contributors many naturalists of standard and de- 

 servedly high reputation. The memoirs on Conchological and Entomological 

 subjects are apparently the most valuable, and are certainly the most numerous 

 and most carefully illustrated. For better or worse it happens that compara- 

 tively few of its many papers are devoted to Ornithology, and a large majority 



1866.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



of those are of a general or local character, relating mainly to European birds, 

 though several of them are highly interesting. la the entire series of thirty 

 volumes, there are only seven descriptions of species presumed to have been 

 previously unknown, and which we give in a succeeding page of this article ; 

 and, also, we propose to give an inventory or general reckoning of the entire 

 ornithological contents of this periodical, not premising in the least that it is 

 either an extended or difficult enterprise. But as we have frequently seen this 

 Journal cited by the older authors, and even occasionally in books of recent 

 formation, (mostly conglomerate,) we have looked up these ornithological ar- 

 ticles to the end that hereafter they shall be seen truly, not only by ourselves, 

 but also by such others who, like us, may have found out that there is a differ- 

 ence between hearing and believing, and even between looking and seeing. 

 Any one can look, but comparatively few, see, and, at least, light shall no longer 

 be wanting on " Der Naturforscher." 



The words of our choice text for this interesting occasion, beloved brethren, 

 we shall not dwell upon nor enlarge upon, even not so much as might conduce 

 to solid profit in a moral sense; both somewhat of time and inclination being 

 wanting, and an homily, fortunately perhaps, not necessary. Who has suflFered, 

 beloved, not for his fault, but thine ? And in the vast affluence of the field of 

 study and solid acquirement spread before thee, not only in the libraries and 

 museums established by the governments of all civilized nations, but in our 

 own times, in the countries of our native language and by our own contempo- 

 raries, such high souled and ever memorable men as Thomas B. Wilson and 

 Henry Bryant, John Henry Gurney and Osbert Salvin, art thou indeed but a 

 starviing ? We wait not for answer, but proceed about our business with some 

 soberness of thought, (and with recommendatory suggestion.) 



Here follows a list of all the memoirs relating to Oruithology in this Journal, 

 and, at the end of that, a list of the species of Birds therein described, as cer- 

 tainly intended and supposed by the authors (but generally erroneously,) for 

 the first time. 



List of memoirs on Ornithology in '■^Der Naturforscher^''^ alphabetically arranged^ 

 after a fashion^ so far as relates to the writers of them. 



Bechstein, J. M. Bergrath. 



1. Bemerkungen uber die Motacillen, vol. xxvii. p. 38, (1793.) 



Beckmans, Johann, Professor zu Goettingen. 



1. Linneische Synonymie zu Kleins verbesserterHistorie der Voegel, vol. i. 

 p. 65,(1774.) 

 Bocks. Consistorialrath zu Koenigsberg. 



1. Preussiche Ornithologie, vol. viii. p. 39, (1776) ; ix. p. 39, (1776) ; xii. 

 p. 131, (1778); xiii. p. 201, (1779); xvii. p. 66, (1782.) 



Gotz, Georg Friedrich. Candidatus in Hanau, Lehrer der Durchlauchtigsten 

 Prinzessinnen zu Hessen-Cassel. 



1. Anmerkungen zu des Herrn Professor Sanders zweytem Beytrag zur 

 Geschichte der Vogel im 13 ten Stuck des Naturforschers, S. 179, vol. xv. 

 p. 157, (1781.) 



2. Forgesetzte Beytrage zur Ornithologie, vol. xix. p. 78, (1783.) 



3. Ueber die anomalisch weissen Vogel, vol. xvi. p. 37, (1781.) 



4. Beytrag zur Naturgeschichte des Mauerspechts, Certhia muraria, Linn, 

 vol. xvii. p. 40. (1782.) 



5. Naturgeschichte des Silber und weissen Phasans, vol. xvi, p. 122, (1781.) 



6. " des Goldphasans, vol. xiv. p. 204, (1780.) 



7. " des Kronvogels, Columba coronaia, Linn., vol. xvii. 

 'p. 32,(1782.) 



Grillo, F. Professor. 



1. Ornithologische Bemerkungen auf Veranlassung des Naturforschers be- 

 kannt gemacht, vol. xxii. p. 127, (1787) ; xxv. p. 13, (1791.) 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Giinthers, D. Friedrich Christian, Herzogl. Sachsen Coburgischen Hofraths und 

 Leibarztes zu Cahla. 



1. Von der anomalisch-weisaen Farbe der Voegel, vol. i. p. 54, (illi.) 



2. Von der anomalisch-schwarzen Farbe der Voegel, vol. ii. p. 1, (ITH.) 



3. Vom Creuzvoegel, dessen Nest und Eyern, vol. ii p. 66, (1774.) 

 Kiibn. 



1. Von dem Gesange der Voegel, vol. xxi. p. 195, (1785.) 



2. Von dem Kriinitz oder Krumschnabel (Loxia curvirostra,) vol. xxi. p. 

 197, (1785); xxii. p. 142, (1787.) 



3. Von dem Nachtschatten, Ziegen-Melcker (Caprimulgus,) vol xxi. p. 199, 

 (1785.) 



Leske. 



1. Von den lymphitischen Gefassen in den Vogeln, aus dem 58 Band der 

 philosophischen Transaction, vol. v. p. 188, (1775.) 



Murr, Christian Gottleib, von. 



1. Beschreibung des Patagonischen Pinguins, aus dem 58 Band der 

 philosophischen Transactionen, vom Jahre 1769, vol. i. p. 258 (1774). 



2. Von der besten Art, Vogel in Sammlungen aufzubehaltea aus dem 

 Gentlemen's Magazine vom J. 1772, vol. i. p. 2fi2. 



3. Beytrage zur Thiergeschichte von Ostindien, aus Pennant's Indian 

 Zoology, vol- i. p. 265. 



4. Von den Nestern und Eyern der Vogel. Ein Auszug aus Herra Tbora. 

 Pennant's Genera of Birds, vol. i. p. 284. 



5. Vom Flug der Vogel, vol. i. p, 291. 



6. Vou Ornithologischen Systemen, vol. i. p. 292. 



Nau, B. S. Professor der Caraeralwissenscbaften zu Mainz. 



1. Beitrage zu nahern Kenntniss der Naturgeschichte einheimscher 

 Voegel, vol. xxv. p. 7 (1791). 



Otto, Doctor und Adjunct. 



1. Abhandlung von den Abartender Kreutz5chnabel, vol. xii. p. 92 (1778). 



Pacius, Georg Friedrich. 



1. Zwo vortheilhafte Arten Voegel und kleine vierfussige Thiere auszus- 

 topfen, vol. ii. p. 87 (1774). 



Sanders, Professor zu Garlsruh. 



1. Beytrage zur Geschichte der Voegel, vol. xi. p. 11 (1777), xiii. p. 179, 

 (1779), xviii. p. 232 (1782). 



2. Beobachtes Gewicht einiger Vogel-Eyer, vol. xiv. p. 48 (1780). 



Schrank, Franz von Paula, Kurpsalzbaierscben geistlichen Rathe. 



1. Zoologische Beobachtungeu, vol. xviii. p. 66 (1782). 



2. Ueber die anomalisch weisse Farbe der Voegel, vol. xxiii. p. 138 

 (1788). 



Scbreber, J. C. D. 



1- Beytrage zur exotischen Ornithologie, vol. xviL p. 12 (1782), xviii- p. 1. 

 (1782.) 

 Walch, J, E. J. Hofrath. 



1. Von der anomalish-weissen Farbe der Voegel, vol. iv. p- 128 (1774). 



2. Beytrage zur exotischen Ornithologie, vol- xi. p. 1 (1777), xiii. p. 11, 

 (1779), xvii. p. 12 (1782). 



ThefoUowing are the species described as previously unknown : — 



1. Trogon fasciatus, Scbreber, Naturforscher, xvii. p. 17 (1782). 



Pennant Ind. Zool. p. 15, pi. 5. 



Trogon fasciatus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 405 (1788). 



Harpactes fasciatus (Scbreber) I 1 

 1866.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF 



This name happens to be the same as that of Gmelin, but Schreber is tb» 

 first to apply it, and is, therefore, to be cited as authority. It is given by both 

 authors to the bird figured by Pennant as cited, but what that is cannot be so 

 easily settled. 



2. Todus cristfttus, Schreber, Naturfors. xvii. p. 21 (1782). 



Buff. PI. Enl. 289. Der Naturforecher, xvii. pi. 7. 

 Tip to Gmelin, the synonomy of this species stands: 



Muscicapa coronata, Muller, Syst. Nat. S«pp. p. 168 (1776). 

 Todus cristatus, Schreb., Der Naturfors. xvii. p. 21 (1782.) 

 Todus regius, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 445 (1788.) 

 Muscivora coronata (Muller) ! I 



3. Xanthornus virens, Schreber, Naturfors. vol. xviii. p. 1 (1782.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. 328, Der Naturf. xviii. pi. 1. 

 The synonymy of this species is : 



Oriolus viridis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 87 (1776.) 

 Xanthornus virens, Schreb., Der Naturfors. xviii. p. 1 (1782.) 

 Oriolus viridis, Boddaert, Tab. PI. Enl. p. 20 (1783.) 

 Cassicua viridis, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 364 (1816.) 

 Cassicus viridis (Miiller) I I 

 Muller comes in again several lengths ahead of Schreber and Boddaert, 

 and Vieillot is nowhere, though currently reported for about fifty years as 

 having won, by error of the judges. Both of Schreber's plates above cited 

 are recognizable and, in fact, much better than usual at the date of the per- 

 formance. This is the same Schreber famous as a Mammalogist, but the 

 papers here referred to are bis only attempts at Ornithology, so far as I know^ 

 and so successful that his three species here mentioned would have stood, but 

 for Prof. Milller's long-neglected names. 



4. Scolopax punctata, Nau, Naturfors. xxv. p. 7 (1791.) 



" Scolopax rostro arcuato, gala rufescente, dorso fusco, punctis albis, 

 pedibus nigris.'- Hab. — Europe. 

 Probably the young or a seasonal plumage of Totanus ochropits^ and also 

 probably the same plumage subsequently described as Tringa liltorea, Lath. 

 Ind. Orn. ii. p. 731. A full description is given in German, which seems 

 applicable, as we have stated. Professor Nau is or was well known as a 

 Botanist, but this is bis first and only appearance as an Ornithologist. 



5- Motacilla longirostra, Bechstein, Naturfors. xxvii. p. 43 (179'3.) 



Quite an extended description of this species is given by Bechstein, but I 

 fail to recognize it, and do not find it again alluded to in the works of that 

 author. It is given as an European bird. 



6. Motacilla Sibilatrix, Bechstein Naturfors. xxvii. p. 47 (1793.) 



Sylvia sylvicola, Lath. Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 53 (1801.) 

 Phjllopneuste sibillatrix (Bechst.) Brehm I 



7. Motacilla Fitis, Bechstein, Naturfors. xxvii. p. 50 (1793.) 



Motacilla Trocbilus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 338 (1766)? 

 Phyllopneuste fitis (Bechst.) Brehm 1 1 

 The plates of birds are as follows : 



Pipra rupicola, Linnaeus, vol. xi. pi. 1. 

 Gracula carunculata, Gmelia, vol. xi. pi. 2. 

 Picus miniatus, Gmelin, vol. xiii. pi. 4. 

 Muscicapa coronata, Muller, vol. xvii. pi. 1. 

 Oriolus viridis, Miiller, vol. xviii, pi. 1. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



List of the BIBDS of Fort Whipple, Arizona : with which are incorporated 



all other species ascertained to inhabit the Territory ; with brief 



critical and field Notes, descriptions of new species, etc. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES, A. M., M. D. 

 (Assistant Surgeon U. S. Army.) 



The Territory of Arizona comprises that portion of what was formerly the 

 vast Territory of New Mexico lying west of the 109th meridian; together with 

 an extensive tract obtained from Mexico, known as the " Gadsden purchase." 

 As at present bounded, Utah and Nevada form its northern limit, while its 

 southern border is contiguous in its whole extent to the Mexican State of 

 Sonora. The Colorado River separates the greater portion of its western 

 border from California ; the extreme southwestern corner of the Territory 

 being at the junction of the Gila with the Colorado River. 



The extensive area thus bounded, constitutes, in connection with New Mex- 

 ico, what is known, in relation to its Faunal characteristics, as the " South- 

 ern Middle Province " of the United States.* It possesses marked features 

 whereby it is distinguished from the western littoral Province, or Pacific 

 region proper, as well as from the Eastern Province. Most of the character- 

 istics of the Arizonian Avifauna are shared to a considerable degree by that 

 of New Mexico; the main points of discrepancy being those few wherein the 

 valley of the upper Rio Grande differs from that of the Colorado. It does 

 not appear that the difference between the two slopes of the main chain of 

 the Rocky Mountains is in this region very strongly marked. In general 

 terms it may be affirmed that the Ornis inclines in character decidedly to- 

 wards that of the Pacific region proper, as might be expected from the posi- 

 tion of Arizona relative to the main chain of the mountains just named. But 

 still notable differences from the truly littoral Fauna are apparent ; and there 

 can be little doubt that the presence of so extensive a desert just west of the 

 Colorado exerts much influence in producing this result. At certain points 

 however in this desert, some species, respectively typical each of its own 

 habitat, are known to meet.f The features, dependent upon latitude, which 

 separate Arizona from adjacent regions, to the north or south, are by no 

 means so marked as those which distinguish it from the countries lying east 

 and west, and mainly consist in the introduction into the lower warmer parts 

 of the Territory, from Sonora, of several Mexican and subtropical species. A 

 "wedge," so to speak, of these types is pushed a little northward of Mexico, 

 and they are readily recognizable as a somewhat prominent element among 

 the birds of Southern Arizona, and of the Colorado valley for a considerable 

 distance. Perhaps this is more deciedly the case here than at other points 

 on our southern border. A considerable number of species properly belong- 

 ing to the United States Fauna, and generally distributed throughout Ari- 

 zona, retire in winter beyond the Sonoran border ; while at the same time it is 

 interesting to note that some speciesj breed quite high up in Arizona, or even 

 further north, which are at the same time summer residents of the table lands 

 of Mexico. To the northward, neither the climate nor physical geography of 



* See the American Journal of Science and Arts, vol. xli., .Jan. and March, 1866 ; «' On the Dis- 

 tribution and Migration of North American Birds, by Spencer V. Baird," where the several pro- 

 vinces into which North America is divisible are characterized, and the peculiarities of their Avi- 

 faunas indicated. 



t E. g. The Lnphortyx Gamheli and L. Cctlifomicus, and very probably also some species of 

 Jays; along tbeMojave River, which rises in the San Bernadino Mountains, and flows eastwardly 

 towards the Colorado River, affording a degree of fertiUty which is an inducement to the species 

 just named and to others. 



X E. g. Hegperiphona vesperiina, Carpodacus Cassinii, Curvirostra americana, Plectrophanes 

 melanomus, etc. 



1866.] 




\ 



40 PROCEEDINGS OV THE ACADEMY OP 



Arizona are sufTicicntly diverse from those of adjacent Territories to produce 

 any special differences in their Avifaunje; unless indeed the apparent absence 

 of one family* can be substantiated as a marked peculiarity. 



Some facts of physical geography have a marked influence upon the birds. 

 From the dearth of water throughout almost every portion of the Territory 

 there results, as a natural consequence, a great paucity of Grallatorial and 

 Natatorial forms ; so much so, that with a few prominent exceptions, a list of 

 the Water Birds of the Territory is little more than an enumeration of those 

 of the Colorado and Gila Rivers. There is also to be noted, as an interesting 

 fact, the effect of the hot, arid, desert wastes of the region of the Gila, and 

 Southern Arizona generally, upon the colors of the species found there. A 

 light, dull, apparently faded condition of plumage, in which some shade of 

 gray is a predominant tint, and all lines and streaks are more or less obsolete 

 in character, is met with in numerous instances, forming true local races or 

 varieties. In'other casesf the specific characters which distinguish birds of 

 this middle southern province from other closely allied species, partake in a 

 measure of this peculiarity. 



Our knowledge of the Ornis of Arizona has been hitherto chiefly obtained 

 from the collections made by the naturalists attached to several of the United 

 States Government Surveys of various regions of the West. The expeditions 

 along the 35th and the 32d parallel passed through different portions of the 

 Territory; the Mexican Boundary Survey along its southern border; that of 

 the Colorado passed up the river to the head of navigation. The first men- 

 tioned of these, under Capt. A. W. Whipple, with Dr. C. B R. Kennerly and Mr. 

 H. B. Mollhausen as naturalists, passed very near the present site of Fort 

 Whipple ; and its collections agree most closely with my own. Collections 

 of some private individuals have added materially to the results of these Ex- 

 plorations ; especially those of Dr. J. G. Cooper, who spent several months at 

 Fort Mojave, on the Colorado River, in latitude 35° N. To the observations and 

 collections of this gentleman I shall have frequent occasion to allude ; and I 

 am indebted to him for free access to his MSS. notes, which are of special in- 

 terest and value, not only as adding some species to my list, but as affording 

 an opportunity of comparing the birds of Fort Whipple with those of a point 

 in the Colorado valley, at nearly the same latitude ; whereby the effect of the 

 differences in physical geography is finely elucidated. My own observations, 

 made during the sixteen months I resided in Arizona, extend over the Ter- 

 ritory from east to west, chiefly near the line of the 35th parallel ; and along 

 the valley of the Colorado from Fort Mojave to Fort Yuma. It was chiefly 

 at Fort Whipple, and the mountainous region of that vicinity, that my collec- 

 tions were made. This particular locality possesses a rich and varied Avi- 

 fauna ; numerous features of which are quite peculiar, as might be expected 

 from the following facts regarding its situation and relations. 



Fort Whipple is very nearly in latitude 34° 30^ N., longitude 112° W. (from 

 Greenwich.) It is difficult to give an estimate of the altitude of the vicinity 

 with anything more than approximate accuracy, in consequence of the broken 

 and varied nature of the surface. It may be stated, in round numbers, as be- 

 tween 4000 and 5000 feet ; but in several directions, and more particularly 

 to the southward, there are confused masses of short mountain ranges or ab- 

 rupt isolated peaks, which rise far above the level indicated by the preceding 

 figures. The altitude of the San Francisco mountains, about sixty miles a 

 little east of north of Whipple, has been fixed at about 12,000 feet. The main 

 point of interest which attaches to this particular locality— Fort Whipple — 



* The Tetraonidse. I have never seen nor heard of a single species of grouse in Arizona. But 

 the northern portiDns of the Territory are so imperfectly explored that it is not safe to assert their 

 entire absence. Dr. J. G. Cooper has seen the Centrocercus urophasianus oa the Mojave River; 

 the southernmost point, 1 believe, from which it has thus far been recorded. 



t Of which Hurporhynchus Lecontei or crisscUis^ a& distinguished from H. redivivus of the Pacific 

 coast, is a goad example. 



fMarchj 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 41 



is that it is nearly upon the dividing line between two tracts of country quite 

 diverse from each other in those points which chiefly affect the distribution 

 and migration cf species. A single day's journey to the southward gives us 

 changes in the birds, so great, that I do not hesitate in comparing the differ- 

 ence to that which exists between the Middle Atlantic and the Gulf States, in 

 the eastern Province. Very numerous species,* not detected at any seasonal 

 Fort Whipple, are yet found abundantly within fifty miles to the south and 

 southwest. At the same time the locality is a true component of the eleva- 

 ted and cold regions to the northward, and assimilates in this respect to Utah 

 and Nevada. Intermpdiate in situation between the two great valleys of 

 southwestern United States — those of the Rio Grande and Colorado Rivers, — it 

 draws tribute in a measure upon each of them, though, asmight be supposed, 

 vastly more from the latter than the former. In this connection I may advert 

 to an interesting point, which I consider as quite probable, though contrary 

 to the usual laws of migration ; viz., that many of the birds of the Colorado 

 valley, which are there winter residents, instead of migrating far to the north 

 in spring, by turning simply to the eastward, find in the region of which 

 Fort Whipple is the southern limit the conditions necessary for breeding 

 grounds. That such is a fact would seem to be indicated by comparing the 

 forms common to both Mojave and Whipple ; the summer residents or spring 

 migrants of the latter place being usually winter residents at the former 

 locality ; but can only be inconlrovertibly proven by showing that some 

 species wintering at Mojave are not found directly north of that point in 

 summer ; and that they do breed in the Whipple mountains. 



The seasons are well pronounced at Fort Whipple, and do not differ nota- 

 bly from those of the Middle Atlantic States. This enables us trenchantly to 

 divide those of its birds which are not permanent residents, into summer and 

 winter residents, and migratory species passing through in the spring and 

 autumn. And I have noticed in many instances that the times of arrival and 

 departure of non-residents are strikingly similar to those of the migratory 

 species passing through Washington, D. C. Quite the reverse is the case in 

 southern Arizona ; where the protracted heat and drought of a long summer, 

 which encroaches on intermediate seasons, disturbs the regularity of migra- 

 tion ; or even entirely takes away from some species the migratory impulse. 



The immediate vicinity of Fort Whipple is admirably adapted to ornitho- 

 logical pursuits in the very varied character of surface presented within the 

 compass of a day's walk. Pines constitute the main feature of the Sylva, 

 covering all the mountains down to what may be considered as the average 

 altitude of the locality. An extensive undulating plain stretches to the north- 

 ward, partially grassy, partially covered with the characteristic shrubs of 

 the country. Ranges of broken low hills, sparsely covered chiefly with sev- 

 eral species of dwarf oak, or so nearly naked as to be little more than huge 

 masses of metamorphic rocks, attract their share of species. The head of 

 one of the forks of the San Francisco River flows past ; at times a considera- 

 ble stream, but usually dry. The vegetation along this, as well as all other 

 water courses of the Territory, has as its most prominent element the ever 

 present Fopulus momliferus ; together with species of Saliz, Frunus, Casianea, 

 etc., the bases of which trees are as usual tightly sewn together by a tangled 

 matted network of rank undergrowth ; the whole forming a tract peculiarly 

 yielding, as every ornithologist knows, of variety and value in specimens. A 

 small rather open swamp near by affords several species, which, but for its 

 presence, would not form a part of the birds of the locality. 



By adding to the species observed at Fort Whipple, and characteristic of 

 that locality, such others as have been ascertained to inhabit any portion of 

 the Territory, the subjoined list becomes an exposition of the present state of 



* For example: Chordeihs texmsis, Pyrocephalus mexicanus, Catherpts mexicantcs, VireojmtiUus 

 (n. 8p.,) Fipilo Abertii, P. mesoleueus, etc., etc. 



1866.] 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AOADBMT OF 



our knowledge of the Arlzonian Ornis. I have included no species in the 

 list which has not actually been detected in the Territory, or which must 

 necessarily bo found there, from the known range of its habitat ; but frequent 

 reference is made to species, not yet recognized as components of the Arizo- 

 nian Avifauna, which in all probability are hereafter to be detected. In view 

 of the favorable circumstances attending the preparation of the list, I do not 

 think that very many species remain to be added to it. Still, as my opera- 

 tions were conducted at the most imminent personal hazard from the con- 

 tinued presence of hostile Indians, — tlie wily and vindictive Apachds — which 

 always cramped, and at times necessitated entire cessation of investigations, 

 it may be perhaps that some species have been overlooked ; and I have only 

 the same excuse to olFer, for some other shortcomings, of which no one can 

 be more fully aware than myself. I have taken care to eliminate the Whip- 

 ple birds, as contradistinguished from all others of the Territory, in order 

 that attention may be drawn to their peculiarities ; considering the Fauna of 

 any natural geographical region as more interesting and instructive than that 

 comprised within arbitrary political boundaries, since the latter almost al- 

 ways include fragments of two or more diverse Faunas ; of which fact the 

 Tery region now under discussion affords an example. The Whipple species 

 are preceded by an uninclosed number ; all others have their number in pa- 

 renthesis. It has been my aim merely to add to the remarks elucidative of 

 the distribution of the species, such purely technical observations, compari- 

 sons of closely allied forms, descriptions of immature or little known states 

 of plumage, as seemed quite pertinent to the subject. In a few cases syno- 

 nymy is introduced for reasons which will be obvious. Except in a few in- 

 stances of special interest I have not touched upon the natural history proper of 

 the species, reserving for future elaboration the mass of ornithobiographical 

 notes which I have taken care to accumulate. All remarks are to be under- 

 stood as referring to the species as observed at Fort Whipple, and by myself, 

 except when the contrary is explicitly stated. 



VULTURIDJE. 



1. Cathartbs aura (L.) lUig. 



Summer resident ; abundant. Arrives last week in March ; remains until 

 latter part of October. Resident in the southern portions of the Territory. 



(2.) Cathartes Calipornianus (Shaw,) Guv. 



Resident in Southern Arizona. Individuals observed at Fort Yuma, in 

 September, 1865. 



FALCONIDuE, 



3. Falco (Tinnunculus) sparvkrids L. 



Resident ; very abundant. In highly-plumaged spring birds, the cere, the 

 feet and the edges of the eyelids are bright vermilion, not yellow: the claws 

 and bill bluish black. 



4. Falco (Hypotriorchis) columbarius L. 



Common ; resident. " A specimen taken by me at Fort Mojave is remark- 

 able for its light colors " {Cooper). A light, dull, faded condition of plumage 

 has been already adverted to as characterizing, in many instances, birds from 

 the Gila and Colorado Valleys. 



In the immense series of " Pigeons-Hawks which I have examined from 

 all parts of the West, I find a few specimens which constantly differ, to a 

 marked degree, from any and all of the exceedingly diverse plumages under 

 which the typical F. columbarius presents itself. These specimens are inva- 

 riably much larger than any others in the series ; are much lighter colored, 

 (yet not dull or faded,) and differ constantly in the increased number of 

 light and dark bars on the tail. Compared with a European specimen of 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4S 



Falco xfalon, they agree in every particular. I think it most probable that 

 future careful research will demonstrate satisfactorily the existence of a 

 species hitherto usually confounded with some of the protean plumages of 

 F. columbarius ; but quite distinct from the latter, and doubtless referrible to 

 the European type above mentioned. In fact, a Falco sesalon has been quoted 

 by Townsend and Nuttall as from the northwestern portions of the United 

 States ; though not usually recognized by later ornithologists. 



(5.) Falco (Hypotriorchis) pemoralis Temm. 



South Arizona, near the Sonoran border. Specimens were obtained by 

 Lieut. J. G. Parke's Expedition along the 32d parallel ; and by the Mexican 

 Boundary Survey. 



It is quite possible that the F. aurantius Gm. extends northward through 

 Sonora into the southern portion of Arizona. 



6. Falco polyagrus Cassin. 



9 Falco mexicanus,^ "Licht. Mus. Berol.," Schlegel, Abhandl. Geb. Zool. 

 u. VergL 1841, p. 15. Schlegel, Falcones, Mus. d'Hist. Nat. Pays- 

 Bas, 1st, 1862, p. 18. 

 Falco (Gennaia) polyaffrus, Cassin, Birds N. A. 1858, p. 12. 

 Sparingly distributed throughout the Territory. Not observed at Whipple, 

 though doubtless to be found there. Colorado Chiquito River, Kennerly. 



(Y.)AcciPiTER CooPERi Bon. 



This generally distributed species is found throughout the Territory. 



8. AcciPiTER Mexicanus Swains. 



Common, resident. Iris, cere, legs, and feet light yellow. Bill bluish 

 black. Claws black. 



I have seen young birds of this species, reared by hand from the nest, so 

 thoroughly domesticated as to come to their master on being whistled for, 

 and perch upon his shoulder, or follow him when shooting small birds for 

 their food. They were allowed entire liberty. Their ordinary note was a 

 shrill and harsh scream ; a low, plaintive, lisping whistle was indicative of 

 hunger. 



The shape of the tail of this species is decidedly less rounded than that 

 of Cooperi^ and is a feature of considerable value in distinguishing the 

 female Mexicanus from the male Cooperi. 



9. AcciPiTBR puscua (Gm.) Bon. 



Resident. Abundant throughout the Territory. 



10. BuTEO " montanus " Nuttall. 



B. montanus^ Nuttall, Manual, 1840, i. p. 112,- and of later American 



w;riters generally : equals B. borealis from Western North America. 

 B. borealis, (Gm.) Gray, Genera, i. 1849, p. 11. Bryant, Remarks on 



Variations of Plumage of Buteo borealis^ etc., in Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. 



Hist, for 1861 : considers montanus Nutt., calurus Cass., and probably 



also Cooperi Cass., as referrible to borealis. 



* I think it very likely that polyagrus is not the first distinctive name this Hawk has received. 

 The description of Falco mexicanus by Schlegel, as above cited, is substantially as follows: — 

 "Wing 11.50 to 13; tail 6.50 to 7 50; legs finely scaled, feet yellow; above brown, paler on the 

 tail; head and nape edged with rusty brown; quills with rust-colored spots; stripe through the 

 eye, spot on nape, and middle of auriculars whitish; beneath white, each feather with a narrow 

 blackish drop-shaped spot ; large lateral feathers covering flanks brown, with some rust-colored 

 transverse spots. The young bird has the edges of the feathers above light, the spots below 

 larger, and the feet greenish yellow." A fuller description is in the first number of Dr. Schlegel'i 

 Catalogue of the Pays-Bas Museum, above cited. These descriptions are pertinent to F. polyagrug 

 in most respects ; but, in view of some discrepancies, (color of the legs, which, in polyagrus, are 

 light dull blue, etc.,) I do not wish, at present, at least, to make the change of names, though 

 such a procedure may hereafter be considered necessary. Mr. Cassin himself refers (B. N. A^ 

 1868, p. 12,) to this name of Dr. Schlegel's, as very probably the first designation of the speciefl. 



1866.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



B. Swai'nsoni, Bonaparte, Conspectus, i. p. 19. Cassin, Birds Cal, and 



Tex. i. p. 98 (1853) ; but not of Cassin, B. N. A. (1858). 

 Falco biUeo, Audubou, Oru. Biog. ; Sw. & Rich. F. B. A., according to 

 Cassin. 



The most abundant and characteristic species of the larger Hawks ; resi- 

 dent, but particularly abundant during the winter months. It may be 

 readily recognized at any distance, when flying, by the very dark-colored 

 area presented by the lesser under wing coverts, sharply contrasted against 

 the very lisrht colors of the rest of the under surface of the wings. The iris 

 is clear light brown ; the bill bluish black ; the cere, legs and feet light 

 yellow. 



In the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History for 1861, 

 appeared a paper by Dr. Henry Bryant, on the variations of the plumage of 

 Western North American Buleones : in which facts are elicited tending to 

 demonstrate that nearly all the species enumerated as valid by Mr. Cassin, in 

 1858, may be reduced to two. One of these, of which borealu Gm may be 

 taken as the type or parent stock, and for which the name must stand, is 

 large and muscular, with a strong bill, long stout tarsi, and a rounded 

 wing. Here Dr. Bryant would range montanus Nutt., calurus Cass., and pro- 

 bably also Cooperi Cass. ; together with a specimen in the Philadelphia 

 Museum, which has been labelled and usually called Ilarlani. The other 

 species is distinguished by its smaller size, more slender form, longer and 

 weaker tarsi, and more pointed wing. Harlani* Aud. is considered as the 

 first name of this species ; and to it are referred Swainsonii^f Bairdii of Hoy % 

 and of Cassin; insignatus^^ Cassin, and oxypterus^ Cassin. Dr. Bryant gives 

 careful measurements of these supposed species, having access to the types 

 of many of them, and finds that, if we are to take size and proportions 

 alone as indicative of specific validity, we can admit but the two species he 

 characterizes ; while, if we are to be guided by color, we cannot avoid still 

 further increasing the number of species to be recognized to such an extent, 

 that (together with the other undoubted species, such as lineafus, pennsyl- 

 vanicus, etc.,) we should have a total of twenty- three inhabiting North 

 America. 



It cannot be denied that our constantly increasing knowledge of the dis- 

 tribution of North American Buieones, and of the "theory of variation" 

 which is applicable to them, decidedly tends towards a confirmation of Dr. 

 Bryant's views. Nevertheless, I am by no means prepared to accept with- 

 out reservation the extreme cosclusions arrived at. I prefer, at present, to 

 enumerate the species — or varieties, if they are only such — as determined by 

 Mr. Cassin ; considering the names given as at least indicative of strongly 

 marked, and apparently geographical, though perhaps not permanent, 

 varieties. 



11. BuTEO "calurus" Cassin. 



B. calurus, Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1855, p. 281 ; and B. N. A. 1858, p. 22 



" B. borealis Gm." Bryant, 1. c. 

 Resident at Fort Whipple, and by no means rare. Specimens taken in the 

 winter of 1864 — 5, and in April following. Orig. No. 1246; 9- I^ength 

 23-'75; extent 55-50. Iris light yellow. Bill dusky bluish horn. Cere dull 

 yellowish green. Mouth livid flesh color. Legs and feet chrome yellow. 

 Claws black. 



*^' Harlani Aud.," of which the type is in the British Museum, is given by Gray (Cat. Brit. 

 Mus. Jccipitres) as borealis. If such be the truth, that Audubon's species was founded upon the 

 fuliginous state of plumage of borealis, then Swainsoni Bp. is the first distinctive name of the 

 smaller of the two species recognized by Dr. Bryant. 



tOf Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, p. 3, as defined by Cassin, B. N. A., 1858, p. 19. 



J J5, Bairdii, Hoy, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. vi. 1853, p. 451.— Cassin, B. of Cal. and Tex. pi. 41.— Idem, B. 

 N. A., 1858, p. 21. 



6 B. insignatus, Cass., B. of Cal. and Tex., 1854, p. 102, pi. 31.— B. N. A., 1858, p. 23. 



I B. oxypterus, Cass., Pr. A. N. S. Ph. vii. p. 282.— Id. B. N. A., 1858, p. 30. 



[Ma'Tch, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



My specimens have a large pectoral area dark chestnut brown, not very 

 different in color from the superior aspect of the tail. I have seen other 

 specimens from Fort Tejon, Gala., in which the breast is still brighter 

 chestnut, in marked contrast to the fuliginous brownish black of the rest of 

 the plumage. Utah, New Mexico, Arizona and California seem to constitute 

 the special range of this species or variety. 



B. " Cooperi^^ has only been taken from Southern California, (Santa Clara 

 County, Cooper^) and, as but a single specimen is known, it is impossible to 

 decide with certainty upon its relations to borealis. 



(12.) BoTEO "Harlani Audubon." 



Individuals identified with this supposed species of Audubon by Mr. Cassin 

 and Mr. Lawrence are from New Mexico and California; so that the bird 

 necessarily ranges over the intermediate ground of Arizona. 



Dr. Bryant considers that the specimens thus identified present nothing 

 incompatible with their being regarded as a variety of borealis. And it is 

 quite probable that the specimen upon which Audubon himself based the 

 name ^^ Harlani" is really referrible to a state of plumage of borealis. This 

 must be finally determined by examination of the type in the British Museum. 

 But the name " Harlani Aud." is employed by Dr. Bryant in his paper to 

 designate a species radically distinct from borealis in all its variety, and is 

 the one to which the three following names are by him referred. 



13. BcTEO " SwAiNSONi " Bonapartc. 



B. Swainsoni, Bp. Comp. List, 1838, page 3. Cassin, 1. c. 



J3. vulgaris, Audubon ; Swainson & Richardson ; but not of European 



authors. 

 B. Harlani, Bryant, 1. c. (Provisionally adopts the name, proposing to 

 accept that of Swamsonii Bp. in event that Harlani Aud. proves to be 

 a variety of borealis.) 

 A species or variety of extensive distribution throughout the West. 

 Colorado Chiquito River, Ariz., JJr. C. B. R. Kennerly. I never met with it at 

 Fort Whipple, though, beyond a doubt, it is to be found there. 



Some of the states of plumage of this bird are so exceedingly similar to 

 those of B. vulgaris of Europe, that It has been thus malidentified by certain 

 American writers. See Cassin, B. N. A., pp. 19, 20, 21, for elucidation of 

 changes of plumage, geographical distribution, and synonymy. 



(14.) BuTBO " oxYPTERDS " Cassin. 



B. oxypterus, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. vii. 1855, p. 282. Idem, B. N. A. 1858, p. 30. 



B. Harlani Bryant, 1. c. 

 Not actually detected within the limits of the Territory ; but the original 

 locality whence the type of the species was described is so near the borders 

 of Arizona as to render it most probable that the species will be here- 

 after detected. (Fort Fillmore, N. M., Dr. T. C. Henry.) 



(15 ) BuTEO "iNsiGNATDs" Cassin. 



B. insignatus, Cassin, B. of Cal. and Tex., 1854, p. 102, pi. 31. Cassin, 



B. N. A., 1858, p. 23. 

 B. Harlani, Bryant, 1. c. 

 The known range of this species or variety includes Arizona. 

 The bird first characterized by Hoy and subsequently by Cassin as B. 

 Bairdii (by Dr. Bryant also referred to " Harlani And.,") has not, to my 

 knowledge, been taken as far south as Arizona, though detected at various 

 other points in the West. 



16. Buteo elrgans Cassin. 



Rare ; and only known as an inhabitant of Arizona from a single specimen 

 taken on the Colorado Chiquito by Dr. Kennerly. I am informed by Dr. 

 Cooper that it is an abundant bird in Southern California, it will doubtless 

 be hereafter found at Whipple. 



18(56.] 




4d PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY Of 



Thi8 fine species is radically different from any of the foregoing Buteones, 

 belonging to a group subgenerically distinct, partially characterized by a 

 different amount of feathering of the tarsi. Among North American species 

 it is only intimately related to lineatus, from which species the study of its 

 neossology readily enables us to distinguish it. 



(17.) BuTKo Z0N0CBRCU8 Sclatcr. 



B. zonocerctia, Sclater, Trans. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1858, p. 263. 



A single specimen, procured on the Gila River, Sept. 24, 1864. The species 

 is doubtless restricted in its northern range to the warm valleys of the Gila 

 and Lower Colorado. 



This interesting Mexican species was first found within the limits of the 

 United States by the indefatigable Cooper, who procured a specimen in Santa 

 Clara County, California. Without being aware of this at the time, I redis- 

 covered it myself in Arizona; an additional example of what has occurred in 

 several instances in our operations in the West, during the greater part of 

 which each was ignorant of the other's exact whereabouts and labors. I 

 must yield to my friend the priority of discovery, although I have the pleas- 

 ure of first presenting the species in an American publication as an addition 

 to the United States Fauna. 



18. Archibdteo perrugineus (Licht.) Cassin. 



Buteo ferruffineus, Lichtenstein, Trans. Acad. Berlin, 1838, p. 428. 

 Archibuteo ferrugineus, Cassin, B. N. A. 1858, p. 34. 

 Archibuteo regalia, Gray, Genera, i. pi. vi, (desc. nulla.) 

 Bufeo Californicus, A. J. Grayson, Hutchins' Cal. Mag. 1857. 



This large, noble, and by far the handsomest of our Falconines, hitherto 

 only known from California, is found quite abundantly about Fort Whipple, 

 especially in winter. It is probably a permanent resident there. It chiefly fre- 

 quented meadows, plains and more open woods. 1 observed it to be quite numer- 

 ous on the dry, level, grassy plains of Southern California. I usually found the 

 stomach filled with Geomys, Arvicola, or Hesperomys. In life it may always be 

 readily recognized by its conspicuously white under parts, contrasted with its 

 dark chestnut tibiae and reddish back. 



No. 1114, taken Dec. 2, 1864. Male. Length 22-50; extent 54-50; wing 

 16-25; tail 9-50 ; tibia 4-80; tarsus 3-25; middle toe 125; its claw -75; outer 

 toe -85; its claw -55 ; hallux 1-00; its claw 1-00; bill along culmen 1-50; 

 along gape 2-00; its depth at base -90. No. 1115, taken Dec. 6, 1864. Fe- 

 male. Length 23-25 ; extent 56-50 ; wing from carpus 16*75 ; tail 10-00 ; 

 tarsus 3-40 ; the other measurements not differing notably from those of the 

 male above given. 



When perfectly adult, the whole under parts, from chin to under tail cov- 

 erts, inclusive, are pure white. In the majority of specimens, however, there 

 will be found a few slender, sharp, shaft lines of black on the chin; which, 

 as they pass down the breast, become broader, and tinged with chestnut. 

 Usually, also, the feathers of the flanks have small, isolated, interrupted and 

 incomplete bars of chestnut and black. Less mature specimens exhibit a con- 

 tinuation of these bars quite across the lower part of the abdomen, and they 

 are so broadened as to form somewhat hastate spots. Some of the feathers 

 of the flanks are tipped with chestnut. The chief other variations in adult 

 birds seem to be a greater or less intensity of the deep color of the tibiae, a 

 lighter or darker shade of ferrugineous on the back, and a fainter or more de- 

 cided wash of pearl grey on the superior surface of the tail. 



The bill is dark leaden bluish black. The mouth is light purplish flesh 

 color, becoming livid bluish on the corneous portions. The cere, edges of 

 the commissure, tarsi and toes are bright chrdme yellow. The claws are 

 black. The naked skin just over the eye is greenish, tinged with crimson 

 posteriorly. The iris of adult birds is fine light yellow ; of young ones 

 brown, more or less ochraceous with increasing age. 



[March; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 47 ' 



The following brief anatomical notes may be of interest, as the species has 

 not hitherto been dissected. They relate chiefly to the alimentary canal : 



Anatomical Notes. On the roof of the mouth a narrow but prominent me- 

 dian ridge runs from the very apex of the upper mandible to the fissure of 

 the posterior nares, widening, becoming less sharply defined, and more ob- 

 tusely papillated towards its posterior extremity. At a point about a third of 

 its length from its termination it is crossed at right angles by a very short, 

 transverse ridge, which connects it on either side with a lateral ridge. These 

 lateral ridges run parallel with each other as far back as the Eustachian ori- 

 fice, and are papillated for their whole length, which papillae are anteriorly 

 sparsely distributed, short, stout and obtuse; posteriorly gradually becoming 

 thick-set, long, soft and acute. The ridges themselves terminate abruptly in 

 the smooth, soft, mucous membrane of the posterior portions of the palate, 

 measuring 1-60 inches in length. That portion of the palate between these 

 ridges and the nasal fissure is roughened by numerous short, blunt tubercles. 

 From the extremity of that portion of the nasal fissure which has soft, ele- 

 vated, approximable ridges, there runs outwards on either side a fringe of 

 delicate papillae. Rather more than the posterior third of the nasal fissure 

 stands broadly open, and has hard, immobile, bony edges, over which the 

 mucous membrane is tightly and smoothly stretched. The nasal aperture 

 measures in total length 1-25. Just posterior to it, on the median line of the 

 palate,i3 the opening of the Eustachian tube, situated in the centre of asmooth, 

 somewhat vaulted space. In shape it is oval, and its edges, though somewhat 

 mobile, are not completely approximable. From its posterior extremity, on 

 either side, a fringe of soft papillae curves obliquely outwards and forwards. 

 The rest of the palate is not noticeable. Posteriorly it is very soft, and nu- 

 merous vessels may be seen ramifying beneath its mucous membrane. An- 

 teriorly it becomes harder and more fibrous, and finally, towards the tip of 

 the bill, quite corneous. 



The tongue is large and fleshy, its tip obtusely rounded, its lateral outline 

 convex, its dorsum with a median furrow, its under surface with a corres- 

 ponding ridge, its posterior extremity deeply bifid, the edges of the fork 

 corneous, and armed with stiff, hard, papillae. The outermost of these pa- 

 pillae is greatly developed, forming a large, strong, acutely pointed spine. 

 The tongue is '75 long ; its laryngeal fissure '50. The elevated space 

 just posterior to the rima glottidis is pure white, and thickly beset with 

 stiflF, acute papillap, some of which have black tips. 



On the floor of the mouth, on either side of the frenum linguae, at the apex 

 of the angle formed by the divergence of the inferior maxillary rami, lies a 

 thin, flattened, broadly oval gland, a third of an inch long, of a deep pur- 

 plish red color. Its surface is studded with numerous depressed punctae,tbe 

 orifices of the emunctory ducts. 



The trachea is 5-50 inches long, and -45 wide at its superior extremity ; 

 rings about 90 in number. It is broad and much flattened superiorly, but 

 towards the lower larynx becomes more cylindrical. The lateral muscles are 

 well developed. The lower larynx, as usual in this order, is quite simple. 

 The bronchial half-rings are 15 in number, all small, soft and weak. 



The oesophagus is extremely capacious and dilatable. The distended crop 

 is irregularly ovoid in shape ; 3-50 long by about 2-25 wide. 



The proventricular glands form a complete zone, with a uniform width of 

 1-25. The proventricular parietes is about one-twelfth of an inch in 

 thickness. The individual glands are large enough to be readily discernible 

 to the naked eye; closely aggregated in the parenchyma of the parietes. Their 

 orifices are plainly visible, thickly studding the whole internal surface of the 

 organ ; and during active digestion the mucous membrane is covered with 

 their thick, glairy, viscid secretion. 



The fully distended gigerium occupies about three-fourths of the abdominal 

 cavity. It reaches within an inch of the rectum, inclining towards the left 



1866.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



side of the abdomen, with the internal parletes of which it is in close ap- 

 proximation. The intestines all seem crowded backwards, downwards and to 

 the right. There is no apparent constriction between the proventriculus and 

 pigerium ; but from the termination of the oesophagus proper the calibre of 

 the canal regularly increases, so that the two stomachs together form a pyri- 

 forra mass, its large end directed backward. The walls of the gigerium are 

 thin ; the mucous membrane quite smooth. The pylorus is nearly circular in 

 shape ; i^s aperture quite open and direct. It is guarded by elevated folds 

 of mucous membrane, forming partial valves. The opening is situated about 

 the middle of the right side of the gizzard. 



The duodenal fold is between three and four inches in length. It curves 

 around the right side and fundus of the gizzard, separating the latter from 

 the rectum, and thence returns upon itself to its point of departure. 



The intestine then curves around the dorsal aspect of the gizzard until near 

 the median line of the body, whence it descends nearly in a straight line, in 

 the right iliac fossa, almost as far as the rectum. After numerous short con- 

 volutions in this region, it again ascends, on the right of the spine, till it re- 

 gains the dorsal aspect of the gizzard near the origin of the duodenal fold. 

 It then traverses the gizzard from right to left, and descends in the left iliac 

 fossa, half way to the rectum, when abruptly returning on itself along the 

 left side of the spioe, it forms a loop about an inch long. Here, after again 

 abruptly reversing its direction so as to point directly backwards, it termi- 

 nates, at the coeca, in the colon. 



There are two cceca, each about one-eighth of an inch long, very small, 

 perfectly straight, obtusely rounded at their extremities, and closely adherent 

 by cellular tissue to the walls of the colon. 



The colon is very short, being less than two inches in length. It is a per- 

 fectly straight tube, running directly backwards along the median line of the 

 sacrum. Its diameter does not exceed the average of the "small" intestines, 

 and is less, in fact, than that of the duodenum. Between the ischia it ex- 

 pands into a large, nearly globular, though somewat pyriform rectum, about 

 an inch in length. A spincter partially guards the recto-colal passage. 



The pancreas in the specimens examined was not, as usual, slender and 

 elongated, and received in the fold of the duodenum ; but was short, thick 

 and obtuse, and closely applied to the right side of the gizzard. 



The spleen measures a third of an inch in length, and is of a flattened, 

 ovoid shape, and dull reddish purple color. It rests on the dorsum of the 

 gizzard, a little to the right, and high up near the proventriculus. 



The liver is large, and its two lobes are of about equal size. They lie one 

 on each side of the abdomen, their commissure being directly on the median 

 line of the body. Their superior concave surfaces combined are in apposi- 

 tion with the gizzard and intestines ; their convex inferior surfaces are accu- 

 rately moulded to the thoracic parietes. Anteriorly they diverge to receive 

 the apex of the heart between them ; posteriorly they are in close mutual 

 apposition. 



The total length of the alimentary canal from pylorus to anus is about 40 

 inches. 



19, Archibuteo lagopds (Briinn.) Gray. 



Rare. A single specimen taken in winter. None others met with. 



(20.) Elanus LEUcuRtJS (Vieill.) Savigny. 



The known range of this Hawk includes Arizona : though I am not aware 

 that any examples have actually been brought from the Territory. 



(21.) Nauclerus furcatus (L,) Vig. 



I have been on several occasions assured of the existence of this Kite in 

 Arizona, by reliable if unscientific observers. I have myself never seen it. 



Numerous facts regarding the geographical distribution of this species in- 



[ March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 49 



dicate that it is one of several, which, as noted by Mr. Cassin, (B. N. A., p. 

 37,) range much further north in the western than in the eastern portions of 

 the continent. I have met with it as high up as Fort Leavenworth, on the 

 Missouri River. 



(22.) IcTiNiA MississippiENSis (Wils.) Gray. 



As a bird of New Mexico, this species is doubtless to be detected in south 

 eastern Arizona. 



It is probable that the Asturina nitida remains to be discovered near the 

 Sonoran border. 



23. Circus hudsonicus (Linn.) Vieill. 



An abundant species throughout the Territory, chiefly in its more watered 

 portions, 



■24. Hali^tus leucocephalus (L.) Savigny. 



Bald Eagles were frequently observed at different seasons in the vicinity of 

 Fort Whipple. 



25. Aqdila canadensis (Linn.) Cassin. 



Rare ; but occasionally observed at different seasons : warranting the belief 

 that it is a permanent resident of the mountains around Fort Whipple. 



(26.) Pandion Carolinensis (Sm.) Bonap. 

 Observed on the Colorado River. 



(27.) PoLYBORus AuDUBOMi Cass. 



p. Audubanii, Cassin, Pr, A. N. S. Ph. 1865, p. 2, which see for syno- 

 nymy and specific characters. 

 Apparently not a rare bird of the southern and western portions of the Ter- 

 ritory. "Rio Gila and Colorado, near Fort Yuma; abundant;" Heermanru 



(28.) Ckaxirex unicinctus (Temm.) Cass. 



Taken by Kennerly and Mollhausen on the Colorado River. (See P. R. R. 

 Survey, Vol. x. pt. iv. p. 20.) Probably a permanent resident of southern 

 Arizona. 



[Note. — The following extract from my Journal may be of interest : " Camp 

 on San Francisco River, near mountains of same name, July 13, 1865. A 

 pair of exceedingly large rapacious birds sailed over camp this evening. Their 

 flight was easy, graceful, firm, and sustained for a long time with no visible 

 motion of the wings, which latter were exceedingly long, pointed and acutely 

 angulated at the carpal joint. In size they about equalled Bald Eagles ; but 

 the shape of the wings and mode of flight were very different and intimately 

 resembled those of the Turkey Vultures. The entire under parts of these 

 birds were pure white; their upper parts were not visible." I could not pro- 

 cure a specimen, nor can I now refer the birds to any species known to me, 

 unless, possibly, they were the Sarcoramphus papa ; a species which may be 

 included hereafter in our Fauna, though its presence within our limits has not 

 yet been positively substantiated.] 



STRIGID2K 



29. Strix pratincola Bonap. 



CJommon. Resident. One of the most abundant Owls of the Territory. I 

 have frequently observed it at midday ; on one occasion it was preying upon 

 Black-birds in the middle of a small open reed swamp. 



30. Bubo virginianus (Gm.) Bonap. 



Common ; resident. My specimens incline towards Mr. Cassin 's variety 

 pacificus ; which was also taken on the Colorado Chiquito, by Dr. Kennerly. 



31. Scops McCalli Cassin. 



Taken at Fort Mojave by Dr. Cooper, who thinks it is scarcely distinct from 



1866.] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



S. (isio. The latter species is doubtless distributed throughout the Territory. 

 I have not personally met with it. Dr. Kennerly procured McC<tlli on the 

 Colorado Chiquito River. It is therefore to be enumerated among the Whipple 

 birds. 



32. Otus WiiiSONiANus (Lesson.) 



Sparsely distributed throughout the Territory. Colorado Chiquito, Ken- 



verhj. 



33. Braciiyotus Cassini Brewer. 



Common throughout the Territory. I saw a surprising number on differ- 

 mit occasions along the Colorado River, in the day time. 



34. Nyctale acadica (Gm.) Bonap. 



The known range of this little Owl includes Arizona ; though I have not 

 seen specimens from within the limits of the Territory. 



In addition to the preceding StriQidcB a species of Athene occurs in Arizona ; 

 but whether hypoyea or cimicularia I cannot now determine positively. The 

 Sijrniiim occidenta/e Xantus, (Pr. A. N. S., Ph. 1859, type from Fort Tejon) 

 will very probably be found in the Colorado Valley. Dr. Cooper has obtained 

 Nyctale alhifrons on the Sierra Nevada of California, which causes Arizona to 

 fail within its now known range. 



35. Gladcidium gnoma Wagler. 



Glaucidium gnoma, Wagler, Isis v Oken, xxv. 1832, p. 275. (Mexico.) 



Cassin, in Baird, B. N. A., 1858, p. 62. (Oregon, Cal. etc.) 



'* Strix passerinoides Temm." Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. p. 271, pi. 432, 



fig. 4, 5 ; (not the original species as descr. and fig. by Temm. 



Planches Color. No. 344, which is South American, and probably the 



same as S. infuscata Temm.) 



^^ Surnia passirinoides Temm." Audubon, B. N. A., 8vo. ed. i. p. 117, 



pi. 30. 

 Glaucidium infuscafum, Cassin, Birds Cal. and Texas, 1853, i. p. 139. 

 (Name from Strix infuscata Temm., Man. Orn. 1820, i. p. 97 ; which 

 is S. Amer. species, probably the same as passeri7ioides Temm.) 

 Glaucidium californicum, Sclater. P. Z. S., 1857, p. 4; in text ; pro- 

 posing name if N. Am. species is not true gnoma Wagl. 

 My numerous specimens present no material discrepancies from Wagler's 

 original desciiption in the Isis. I think it far best, with our prest'nt informa- 

 tion on the subject, to refer the Oregonian, Californian and Arizonian bird to 

 this species of Wagler, as Mr. Cassin has done. Should the Mexican bird 

 ever be found to differ from the North American, the latter is to be called G. 

 californicum after Sclater, as above quoted. 



My citations of Audubon's and Cassin's works, (ut supra) all refer to the 

 North American bird, though these authors erred in applying to it either of 

 the names infuscatum or passerinoides, both of which refer to South American 

 species, in all probability identical with each other, and quite distinct from 

 our bird. Mr. Cassin himself corrects his error in the " Birds of North 

 America; " and with this gentleman's later views of the synonymy I entirely 

 agree. 



The sexes of this little Owl differ much in size. A male before me measures 

 only 5-50 X 14'50, but the tail feathers are quite imperfect ; had they grown 

 out fully the bird's length would have been about 7.00. The female is larger, 

 measuring 7*50 X 15*25. The male is rather darker colored than the female ; 

 the spots above more numerous and smaller ; the imperfect nuchal collar of 

 black and white much better defined than in the other sex, where it is almost 

 obsolete. In both sexes vhe iris is bright yellow ; the mouth light purplish 

 flesh ; the bill, cere and feet light greenish yellow ; the soles chrome yellow ; 

 the claws black. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



A diurnal and crepuscular rather than a nocturnal species. The stomachs 

 of those individuals examined, contained the remains of orthopterous and 

 coleopterous insects. A permanent resident at Fort Whipple, but not very 

 abundant. 



MICRATHENE Coues, nov. gen. 



Generic Characters. — Bill small and weak, compressed at the base, where it 

 is densely covered with recurved feathers terminating in stiff bristles ; out- 

 line of culmen and gonys moderately convex ; lower mandible obsoletely 

 notched. Facial disk not conspicuously defined, imperfect behind the eye. 

 Wings exceedingly long ; measuring from the carpal joint rather more than 

 two -thirds the total length of the body ; much rounded, the exposed portion 

 of the first primary only two-thirds that of the longest one ; third and fourth 

 longest, fifth but little shorter, second about equal to the sixth. Tail of mod- 

 erate length, not graduated : rectrices broad to their very tips. Tarsi of mod- 

 erate length, feathered only for a short distance below the tibio-tarsal joint : 

 the rest of their extent, and the superior surface of the toes, clothed with 

 bristly hairs. Claws unusually small and weak, moderately curved ; the 

 outer one reaching a little beyond the base of the middle one ; the inner^n- 

 termediate between outer and middle ones. Middle toe and claw about as 

 long as the tarsus. Hallux elongated. Of small size, being among the roost 

 diminutive of known Owls. 



Type. A'hene Wkitneyi, Cooper. 



With the size and general aspect of Glaucidium, this genus differs greatly 

 from it as follows : The bill is smaller, weaker, less strongly hooked and deu- 

 tulated. The wings are much longer, and the tail much shorter. The tarsus 

 is unfeathered except for a short space superiorly. The claws are so small 

 and weak as to be hardly more than insessorial rather than raptorial in char- 

 acter. The proportions of the tarsus and toes differ decidedly. Nor has it 

 much in common with Athene^ except the partially denuded tarsi ; the rela- 

 tive proportions of the tarsus and toes to each other being quite diU'erent in 

 the two genera ; Athene having the middle toe and claw about two-thirds the 

 tarsus, instead of fully as long. The claws of Athene are very long, acute and 

 little curved. While both genera are very long winged, there is a decided 

 difference in the shape of the wing ; that of Athene being much the most 

 pointed, in consequence of the greater elongation of the first and second pri- 

 maries. I think it more than probable that Micrathene is a truly arboreal 

 genus, like Glaucidium, thus differing radically in its habits from the species 

 of Athene. 



In conversation with me Dr. Cooper intimated his belief that the bird was 

 not a true Athene ; and my critical examination of his type, made at his own 

 request, amply confirms the accuracy ot" his opinion. 



(36.) Micrathene Whitneyi (Cooper.) 



Athene Whitnetji, Cooper, Pr. Cala. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1861, p. 118. 

 For the discovery or this delicate raptorial gem we are indebted to the in- 

 defatigable Dr. J. Q. Cooper, so long and well known as an excellent natural- 

 ist, who procured the only known specimen at Fort Mojave, April 26, 1861. 

 It is unnecessary to add anything to the accurate description above cited. It 

 is one of the most interesting of the recent additions to our western Avi- 

 fauna. 



CUCULID.E. 



37. Geococcyx califormanus (Less.) Baird. 



Rare and seen on but few occasions at Fort Whipple, which is near its 

 northern and eastern limits, though specimens have been taken as far north 

 as the Colorado Chiquito River, by Dr. Kennerly. Very abundant in the 

 more southern and western portions of the Territory. Known as the '* Chap- 



1866.1 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



nrral Cock," "Road runner" and "Snake killer," to the whites; by the 

 Mexicans called "Paisano ;" marvellous stories of its powers of killing rat- 

 tlesnakes and other Ophidians pass current. 



Dr. Cooper has found Cocc_i/;jns Americanm in Southern California, and 

 thinks it is yet to be detected in the valley of the Colorado. 



PICrOyE. 

 'ii'^. Picus Hahrisii Audubon. 



One of the most common and characteristic birds in the vicinity of Fort 

 Wliipple. 



The iris is brown at all ages ; but varies from a clear light reddish brown to 

 a dark blackish brown. The bill and feet are horn-bluish black. The speci- 

 mens from the same locality hardly vary notably in size, though the male is 

 usually larger than the female. None of my specimens approach in size the 

 immense race found in Arctic America. 



No specimens out of a very large series, exhibit the slightest tendency 

 towards the smoky brown tinge, or discoloration of the under parts, seen 

 almost constantly in birds from California and Oregon and Washington Ter- 

 ritories ; but have the under parts pure white, and usually, too, with no in- 

 dications of the obsolete lateral and crissal black streaks seen in the race from 

 the Pacific coast. Specimens not in high plumage frequently have the pri- 

 maries and rectrices gray instead of black ; and this gray is sometimes so 

 faded towards the apices of the feathers, as to be almost white. 



It is a little singular that in a locality where P. IJarrisii is resident, and so 

 very common, P. Gairdneri should be either not found at all, or so very 

 rare that I <iii1 not identify it with certainty during my whole stay ; though I 

 am under the impression that I once saw a single specimen. 



39. PiCus scALARis Waaler. 



Picvs scaluris, Wagler, Isis, 1829, v. 511. Bp. C. A. 1850, p. 138. Baird, 



B. N. A., 1.^58, p. 94; but not of Gambel, which is P. nuttalli. 

 Picus gracilis, Lesson. Revue Zoolog. 1839, p. 90. 

 Picus parvus, Cabot, Host. Journ. N. H., 1845, p. 90. 

 Fort Whipple appears to be about th^ northern limit of this species. It is 

 not very common there, being only a summer visitant, breeding sparingly ; 

 further south, throu<>h the Territory and in the Colorado Valley, it is abund- 

 ant. It does not appear to cross the Colorado Des.ert into California, (whwre 

 the /'. Nuttalli replaces it,) but extends far southward into Central America. 

 A male shot .June 5th has the feathers worn oflF the belly, as if incubating. 

 Young birds just fledged were taken .July 10th. The nest was in the top of a 

 live-oak tree. The heads of the young at this season have rather more red 

 on them than those of the adults. 



Iris deep reddish brown ; bill dark slaty black ; legs and feet horn bluish. 

 The average length is (i*50 inches ; some specimens measure nearly 7 inches. 

 P. Nuttalli seems to be exclusively a coast species, not crossing to the Colo- 

 rado Valley- 



SPHYRAPICUS Baird, 1858. 



The genus Sphyrapicus instituted by Prof. Baird, in 1858, to replace the 

 preoccupied and therefore untenable Pilumnus of Bonaparte, (type P. thyroi- 

 deus Cass.) is a most natural one, widely separated from other genera by sin- 

 gular anatomical peculiarities as well as striking external features. Its North 

 American components aie all very closely allied, notwithstanding that Prof. 

 Baird intimates his doubts as to the propriety of referring P. Williamsoni 

 here, and Prof. Reichenbaeh has been inclined to consider P. thyroideus as a 

 Colupt s. I am familiar with the habits and anatomical peculiarities of all 

 our North American Sphyrapici except S. ruber, and my study has revealed 

 points 80 essentially at variance with other Picidce, that I am inclined to in- 

 stitute for tb« 'reception of the genus a subfamily Sphyrapicince. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



The genus in question is a xylophagous rather than an insectivorous one. 

 I do not mean that the Sphijrapici never eat insects, for coleoptera and their 

 larvae may often he found in their stomachs. But their main sustenance is the 

 oamhrium, or soft, inner, live bark of trees, the succulent juices of which 

 they appropriate to their economy, rejecting the ligiK'Ous, unnutrious fibres 

 in the ordinary method. They are, in fact, true "Sap-suckers," and it is 

 their devastations upon fruit and ornamental trees wh'ch have brought the 

 family of woodpeckers into such disrepute among agriculturalists ; a class 

 not ordinarily observant enough to discriminate between these birds and the 

 harmless or rather beneficial species of P,cus Melanerpes, Centurus, etc In- 

 stead of simply *' tapping " trees, — generally their decayed or dead portions 

 too, — to extract the injurious beetles and their larvae lurking within, the Sphy- 

 rapicines denude live branches of their bark, often for an area of several 

 square inches at a time. I have before me specimens of wood thus a' tacked, 

 from which the bark has been removed from large irregularly shaped spaces ; 

 and the result, as might be expected, is exceedingly different from that pro- 

 duced from the simple drilling of little holes by the insectivorous genera. Be- 

 sides the cambrium, all the species, particularly in the fall, feed extensively 

 upon ripe fruits and berries of all sorts. 



The anatomical peculiarities which produce this remarkable difference in 

 habits are very striking, and involve to a greater or less extent the whole lin- 

 gual, salivary and gastric apparatus. In tlie tongue itself, however, and its 

 bones, the most remarkable differences are to be seen. The tongue cannot be 

 protruded, as a dart, far beyond the tip of the bill ; the amount of extension 

 it is capable of not exceeding a fourth or a third of an inch. This is caused 

 by the great abbreviation of the apo-hyal and cerato-hyal elements of the hyoid 

 bone, which do not reach backwards much beyond the tympauo-maxillary 

 articulation, instead, as in Picus, Colaptes, etc, of being produced so far as to 

 extend over the occiput to the top of the cranium, or even to curve around the 

 orbit of the eye in an osseous groove formed for their reception. The basi- 

 hyals which support the tongue are also shorter and somewhat differently 

 shaped. The tongue itself is short and flattened, with a superior longitudi- 

 nal median groove, and a corresponding inferior ridge. Its tip is broad and 

 flattened, and obtusely rounded, and provided with numerous long and soft 

 bristly hairs. All these features are quite diverse from the long, protruda- 

 ble, subulate, acutely pointed tongue of Picus, etc., armed near its tip with a 

 few strong, sharp, short, recurved barbs. 



The muscular apparatus for the movements of the tongue differs, of course, 

 in a degree corresponding to these modifications of the hyoid bone. I am in- 

 clined to believe, though I have not prosecuted my dissections far enough to 

 speak positively, that there exist diflerences in the salivary glands, and, 

 perhaps, in the gastric mucous membrane, rendered necessary by the radical 

 diversity of the ingesta. 



My attention was first called to these interesting points by a communication 

 from Dr. P. R. Hoy, of Wisconsin, in one of the newspaper periodicals of 

 that State ; which I believe was the first published notice of these facts, and 

 that gentleman's observations I have amply confirmed by my own scalpel and 

 field studies. 



It is unnecessary to detail the external characters of this genus, as they 

 have already been given in ample detail by Prof. Baird. 



40. Sphyrapicus ndchalis Baird. 



S. nuchalis Baird, B. N. A. 1858, p. 103, in text under S. varius. Op. 

 cit. App. H. p. 921. (New Mexico.) 



Permanent resident. Abundant. 



In the adult spring male the whole chin, throat and jugulum are bright red ; 

 this color extending on the sides of the lower mandible so as to interrupt the 

 black lateral stripe of the jugulum, which in varius continuously borders the 



18()G.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



red, and invadln<? to a considerable distance the pectoral spot of pure, deep, 

 glossy, prcH'nish black. In the adult female the chin is white, bordered pos- 

 teriorly by a somewhat semilunar patch of red, not so intense in tint as that 

 of the male, nor so broad. ^ The pectoral black spot, though rather smaller, 

 is equally pure in color. Both sexes invariably have the red crescentic nuchal 

 collar, separated from the red pileum by a distinct line of black. Autumnal 

 birds have the white portions of the upper parts and the belly more or less 

 strongly tinged with lemon yellow, especially noticeable on the abdomen. 

 Birds of the year hardly diflFer from the adults, except that the pectoral spot 

 is only indicated by a few isolated black feathers scattered through a dull grey 

 area. * The nuchal collar is always observable, though its continuity may not 

 be perfect. Independently of age, sex or season, there are great variations in 

 the size and shape of the bill to be observed in large series from different lo- 

 calities. 



This is to be considered as a thoroughly established species. In an im- 

 mense series of skins of both species before me from all parts of North 

 America, there is not one which cannot unhesitatingly be referred to one or 

 the other species. 



41. SrHYRAncus Williamsoni (Newb.) Baird. 



PIcus Williamsoni, Newberry, 1857, (Oregon.) Melanerpes ruhrigularis, 

 Sclater. 1858, (California.) Sphyrapicus Williamsoni, Baird, 1858. 



Residei.t. Not uncommon. Exclusively pinicoline in the regions where I 

 have observed it. Ranges from both slopes of the Rocky Mountains to the 

 Pacific, fjom as far north at least as Oregon. Fort Whipple is probably near 

 its southern limit. 



(No. 844, Oct. 13, 1864. J^.) Length 9-5 ; extent 16-75. Iris dark brown. 

 Mouth pinkish flesh color. Bill bluish black. Feet dull greenish black. 

 Claws black. 



This species exhibits the anatomical peculiarities noticed under head of the 

 genus Sphyrapicus, .and its habits are entirely correspondent. 



42. Sphyrapicus thyroidecs (Cass.) Baird. 

 Resident. Very raie. Cliiefly pinicoline. 



The range of this species is now known to include both slopes of the Rocky 

 Mountains, from Oregon to the Rio Grande, and probably it extends through 

 Arizona to the Sonoian border. 



fcome male specin ens have the grey chin more or less suffused with reddish, 

 forming a mental spot something like that of Williamsoni. Neither sex ap- 

 pears to have any red about the crown or nape, a very unusual fact if such 

 be invariably the case. 



This species is strictly congeneric with Sphyrapicus varius in anatomical pe- 

 culiarities and in habits, and has nothing in common with Colaptes beyond 

 some similarity in the pattern of coloration. 



Sphyrapicus ruber, as a bird of the whole Pacific Slope of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, will most probably be hereafter detected. It seems chiefly, however, a 

 coast species. The Hylatomus pileatus is undoubtedly an inhabitant of Ari- 

 zona. 



43. Centurus uropygialis Baird. 



Rare, and perhaps accidental in the immediate vicinity of Fort Whipple. 

 A common bird of the Grila and Lower Colorado River valleys. " Abundant 

 at Fort Mojave," {Cooper.) A species remarkable for inhabiting the Giant 

 Cactuses, (Lepidocer>us yiganteus and L. Tkurheri, of Englemann,) whence 

 is derived its provincial name of " Suwarrow " or "Saguaro." Its plumage 

 is often found stained with the juices of these plants. It feeds upon their 

 fiuit, but catches insects as well The female is similar to the male, except 

 that she wants the quadrate patch of red on the crown. The absence of the 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. ^5 



yellow nuchal crescent, and of the yellow at the base of the bill are some of 

 the features that distinguish both sexes from the C. Jlaviventris. 



44. Melanerpes formicivorus (Sw.) Bp. 



Exceedingly abundant, being the commonest Woodpecker, not even except- 

 ing P. Harrisii. Resident. Found in all situations. 



The tongue of this Woodpecker is rather brushed at the tip, like that of a 

 Sphyrapicus, than barbed, as in Picus, etc. Siill it is exceedingly protruda- 

 ble, the hyoid bone being well developed. 



This species presents variations in the color of the iris rarely equalled. In 

 a great many individuals the iris is pure white, and so it is usually described. 

 But this is not the color in even a majority of instances, for this white is 

 tinged with various colors,— red, blue, yellow or brown. A greater or less 

 admixture of red gives every shade from a clear rose pink to the most deli- 

 cate creamj white, and these tintg are usual in adult spring birds of both 

 sexes. Varying degrees of yellowish or ochraceous are by no means rare. 

 Young birds are rarely found with pure white irides, for the color is usually 

 obscured by a greater or less amount of blue or grey, producing a bluish grey 

 or a "milk white" tint. Rarely an individual is found with dark brown 

 irides. The latter seems to be purely accidental ; the admixture of blue to 

 denote immaturity, and the reddish tinge to indicate high spring maturity, in 

 each case quite independently of sex. 



The moult, which commences in July, continues for an unusually long pe- 

 riod, — until November, — at least in some instances. 



Adult birds are very constant both in size and plumage, but, at the same 

 time there is an immense variation in the length and stoutness of the bill in 

 diflferent individuals. The black of the breast, and the lemon yellow on the 

 jugulum have often a few isolated red feathers among them. Some few spe- 

 cimens have white tips and inner borders of the secondaries, but this is un- 

 usual. The pileum of young birds has often a bronzy tint, not seen in the 

 adult. 



ASYNDESMUS Coues, nov. gen. 



Generic Characters. — Bill as long as the head, rather longer than the tarsus, 

 as high as broad at the base, terminally compressed, somewhat decurved ; 

 almost colaptine in general aspect. Culmen much curved, tips of bill acute, 

 gonys straight, lateral outline of bill decidedly concave, lateral bevelling 

 scarcely appreciable, lateral ridge distinct, superior and inferior ridges but 

 slightly developed. Wings very long, when folded reaching to near the end 

 of the long tail ; fourth quill longest, third and fifth about equal to each other 

 and shorter than the second. Inner anterior claw reaching but little beyond 

 the base of the outer claw. Feathers of the under parts and of a nuchal col- 

 lar with the fibres on their terminal portion disconnected, loosened, enlarged 

 in calibre, stiffened, almost bristle-like, witli a peculiar glistening silicious 

 hardness, destitute of fibrillae whereby to interlock. Dorsal plumage imbri- 

 cated, with an intense metallic lustre. 



Type. Picus torquatus Wilson. 



The bill of this genus is quite peculiar, approaching that of Colaptes in its 

 length, convexity of culmen, acute tip, and slightly bevelled sides ; and re- 

 sembling that of Melonerpet in its sharply defined lateral ridge. The nasal 

 plumuli are long and bristly but not dense. The length of the wing is ex- 

 cessive, and the proportions of the primaries peculiar. The most essential 

 feature is found in the unusual texture of the feathers of the under parts 

 and nuchal collar, which has thus been described : " The fibres of the feath- 

 ers are longer than usual and remarkably stiff. Those on the terminal third 

 of each fi^ather are of the usual character at the base, or provided with fibril- 

 lae, those of opposite sides interlocking as in feathers generally. The termi- 

 nal portion, however, of the stem of the fibre is much enlarged and expanded 



1866] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMl OF 



Jaterally to twice or more the diameter at the root, and converted into quite a 

 stiff bristle, nearly smooth or with slight indications in place of fibrillse. It is 

 this portion of the feather that is colored," [Baird.] 'J'he feathers of the 

 uuchal collar also posses these peculiarities. The dorsal plumage is intensely 

 lustrous. The red about the face has a peculiar velvety aspect. 



I do not find any name already proposed for this genus, which seems emi- 

 nently worthy of separation from Melanerpes. I had long been of this opinion 

 from examination of skins alone ; and since studying the bird in the field, 

 have become quite convinced. My name has reference to the disconnection 

 of the fibres of the feather. 



45. ASYNDESMUS TORQUATCS (Wils.) 



Picas torqnatus Wilson. Melanerpes torqxiatas Bonap. et Auct. Asyndesmun 

 iorquntus Coues. Picus montanus Ord. P. Lewisii Drapiez. 



(jommon : resident. 



In young birds there is hardly a trace of a nuchal collar, and the upper 

 parts, especially about the head, have very little lustre. The crimson fore- 

 head and lores are very illy defined ; nor are they trenchantly divided from 

 the hoary of the breast by a black area. The blood-red of the under parts 

 only shows in isolated patches, except perhaps on the abdomen, where it is 

 more or less continuous ; the color being of various shades of gray on the 

 breast and sides. The feathers hardly acquire their peculiar character until 

 old enough to have their proper color. 



46. COLAPTES MEXICANUS SwaJUSOU. 



Resident ; abundant : found in all situations, and in habits is quite a coun- 

 terpart of the eastern species it represents in Western North America. 



(47.) CoLAPTES CHRTSoiDES Malh. 



Gtopicus ( Colaptes) chrysoides, Malherbe, Rev. et Mag. N. H. iv. 1852, 



553. Monog. Picidm, ii. p. 262. 

 Colaptes chrysoides, Baird, B. N. A- 1858, p. 125. 



Colaptes Ayresii, Heermann, Parke's Exped. 32° parallel, in the P. R. 

 R. Surv. vol. X. pt. ii. p. 50. Not of Audubon. 

 This species has been shot at Fort Mojave by Dr. J. G. Cooper, in Feb. 1861, 

 when it was feeding on the larvae of insects among the Populus moniliferus. 

 He found it very shy and wary as all the Colaptes seem to be. It doubtless 

 winters in the Colorado valley, though I do not think it leaves the valley to 

 the north and east, as I have never found it among the Whipple mountains. 



" Geopicus chrysoides Malh." was given by Prof. Baird in 1858 as a syno- 

 mym, with a query, of his C. hyridus. At that time there was not sufficient 

 material available to decide the point ; but the impropriety of the reference 

 has since become evident.* The bird is now well known as a common species 

 of Lower and Southern California, and of the Colorado valley, and has been 

 brough*; from the Sonora line. Yery numerous examples are in the Smith- 

 sonian from Cape St. Lucas. 



" Colaptes Ayresii Aud." of Dr. Heermann's Report, as above cited, is un- 

 doubtedly the present species. But the true Ayresii of Audubon is a mixture 

 of auratus and mexicanus, more recently characterized by Prof. Baird as C. 

 hybridus, 



TROCEILID^. 



(48.) Trociiilus alexandri Bourc. and Muls. 



This species has been taken in the Colorado Desert so near the western 

 boundary of the Territory as to render it exceedingly probable it is a bird 

 of the Colorado River valley, as well as of the coast of Southern and Lower 

 California. But I am not aware that it has actually been taken in Arizona. 



* See descriptions of anJ remarks upon this species by S. F. Baird, in Pr. A. N. S. Ph. for Not- 

 eaiber, lb 59. 



♦ [March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Dr. Cooper tells me that the nests which he found on the Mojave River were 

 composed entirely of the soft white downj cotton of P/atanus and Salix. 



(49.) Atthis cost^ (Bourc.) Reich. 



A species generally distributed throughout the Territory, particularly in its 

 southern and southwestern portions. Not taken at Fort Whipple, though 

 observed some fifty miles south. From Bill William's River, Dr Kennedy, in 

 February ; from Fort Mojave, Dr. Cooper. Doubtless winters within the lim- 

 its of the Territory. 



(50.) Selasphoeus platycercus (Sw.) Gould. 



Numerous specimens seen on the summit of Whipple's Pass of the Rocky 

 Mountains in July, feeding among clumps of wild roses. Not observed at 

 Fort Whipple ; but the range northward of this species, as now known, in- 

 cludes the whole of New Mexico and Arizona ; and further north, at least, 

 as far as Fort Bridger, Utah. 



51. Selasphorus RtTFDS Swaius. 



Very abundant at Fort Whipple, as it is elsewhere along the whole Pacific 

 slope of the Rocky Mountains, and across their southern extensions into the 

 Rio Grande valley. Summer resident, breeding abundantly ; arrives April 

 10 ; remains until middle of September. Found in all situations, particularly 

 meadows, open copses, ravines, etc., where flowers are most abundant. 



CYPSELTD^. 



52. Panyptila melanoledca Baird. 



Acanthylis saxatilis, Woodh. Sitgreave's Expl. Zuni and Col. Riv. Birds, 



1863, p. 64. ("Inscription Rock," N. M.) 

 Ci/pselus melanoleucus, Baird, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. vii. 1854, p. 118. (San 

 Francisco Mts. Ariz.) Cassin, lUust. Bds. Cal. and Texas, i. 1855, p. 

 248. 

 Panyptila melanoleuca, Baird. B. N. A. 1858, p. 141. Coues, Newton's 

 Ibis., 1865, p. 

 Rather sparingly distributed throughout the Territory ; chiefly in the 

 neighborhood of cliffs and precipices, which, I believe, it almost exclusively 

 inhabits. 



I think there can be no doubt that the bird described by Prof. Baird, as 

 above, is the same as that briefly and somewhat incorrectly indicated by Dr. 

 Woodhouse. While encamped at Inscription Rock, July 3, 1864, I saw great 

 numbers of these Swifts ; but, as unfortunate as Dr. W., I was unable to pro- 

 cure a single specimen, though many passed so near me that I could posi- 

 tively identify them. The chief point of discrepancy is the white rump 

 mentioned by Dr. Woodhouse, which does not exist in Prof. Baird's speci- 

 mens. But I am perfectly satisfied, in my own mind, that Dr. Woodhouse, 

 from the imperfect observations he was only enabled to make, mistook the 

 white patches on each side of the rump, which in life often reach nearly or 

 quite across the uropygium till they coalesce on the median line. There is a 

 corroboration of this view afforded by the Tachycincta thalassina. Observa- 

 tions of the latter in life gives the impression of a white rump ; whereas this 

 species has that part concolor with the back ; but the large white cottony 

 patches on the flanks are long and loose enough to meet each other on the 

 rump. Moreover the localities whence the two supposed species come are so 

 near as to render it unlikely there should exist two such closely allied 

 Swifts. 

 From Inscription Rock* to the San Francisco Mountains, I continually met 



* Inscription Rock is a huge mass of sandstone protruding from the side of a hill, with a front of 

 great height perpendicular to the i)lain below ; situate a days march west of Whipple's Pass of 

 the Kocky Mountains, and rather more than that distance east of the Pueblo of Zufli. The San 

 Francisco Mountains are a well known locality. 



1866.] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with great numbers of these birds ; except along the valley of the Colorado 

 Chiquito River, where there were no suitable places for their habitation. It 

 is preeminently a saxiooline species, and always found congregated in con- 

 siderable, sometimes in immense numbers, in the vicin ty of huge cliffs and 

 piles of rocks ; usually associating intimately and pnacefully with several spe- 

 cies of Iliruu<litii(i<v, especially Hirundo lunifrovs. Its flight is very rapid and 

 vigorous ; similar in character to that of the tommon Clin'tnrn. Its note is an 

 often and quickly repeated twitter, loud and shrill, quite different intone from 

 that of C/ueltira pdasijia. It builds upon the vertical faces of precipitous 

 rocks. 



Notwithstanding the identity of Baird's with Woodhouse's species, I do not 

 think that the former's name, accompanied by a definite description, should 

 give way to the brief and incorrect indication of Acanthi/lis saxatilis. 



CAPRIMULGIDJE. 



53. Antrostomus Nuttalli (Aud.) Cassin. 



This widely distributed species, which extends from Missouri and Kansas to 

 the Pacific and south into Mexico, is particularly abundant throughout Ari- 

 zona. At Fort Whipple it is a summer resident, arriving late in April and 

 remaining until October. So numerous is it in some localities tiiat around 

 the camp-fires of the traveller a perfect chorus of their plaintive two-s\llabled 

 notes is continued all through the night, and some of the performers are usually 

 so near that the sharp click of their mandibles which follows each cry is distinct- 

 ly audible. But from the difticulty of observing them, little of their personal 

 habits, beyond their cries, are known to us. I never saw a single bird in Ari- 

 zona, though I have listened to perhaps many hundred. Their dissyllabic note 

 is a peculiarity which well distinguishes them from A. vociferus. 



I have been informed that the trissyllabic notes of A. vociferus have been 

 heard in Arizona ; but I consider the statement as very improbable. 



(54.) Chordeiles Henryi Cass. 



Abundant throughout the Territory. At Fort Whipple a summer resident, 

 arriving in April and remaining until October. It is particularly numerous in 

 August and September. 



This species, if it be really one, is not larger than C. popetue, and it otherwise 

 is so closely allied to the latter, as to render the separation of some specimens 

 a matter based upon locality rather than upon differences to be found on com- 

 parison of skins. The western bird presents variations quite parallel with 

 those ofpopetue ; but nevertheless the average is much lighter colored and 

 with more rufous about it, than usually exhibited by eastern specimens. 

 These remarks are founded upon examination of very extensive series of both 

 birds which have been at my disposal. 



(55.) Chordeiles Texensis Lawr. 



Common in the Colorado valley to even further north than the latitude of 

 Fort Whipple ; but not observed elsewhere further north than some fifty 

 miles south of the last mentioned locality ; and then only in summer. Ex- 

 tends from the Rio Grande valley to the Pacific. Numerous specimens are 

 in the Smithsonian from Cape St. Lucas. 



A female procured at Date Creek, June 5, 1865, differs from C. Ilenryi as 

 follows : The wing from the carpus measures 7 inches instead of about 8 ; 

 the tail A\ instead of 5. The throat, though the specimen is a female, is pure 

 white ; but there are no white bands on the tail, the lateral rectrices having 

 very irregular, interrupted bands of rufous, except the middle pair, which are 

 barred with black and mottled gray, the latter much the widest. The pri- 

 maries are all basally spotted thickly on both inner and outer webs with bright 

 rufous, which spots show a tendency to form incomplete bars. On the three 

 first primaries is a large spot of very light rufous, placed within 2^ inches of 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 6d 



the point of the wing. The fork of the tail is less than a third of an inch. In 

 neither sex of C. Henryi is there any rufous mottling on the primaries ; and 

 thus one conpsicuous alar spot is white in both sexes ; and is moreover much 

 nearer the bases of the primaries, being 3^ inches from the point of the wing ; 

 80 that when the wiug is folded the spot is anterior to the ends of the secon- 

 daries. The reverse is the case in C. Texensis ; and these points will always 

 separate the two species, even when small female C. Henrtji is compared 

 with large male texensis. I do not know if the female texensis always has a 

 white throat. 



I am unable to discuss the relationship of the C. hranliensix Grm., and in 

 adopting the name texensis I am following Mr. Lawrence's authority altogether. 



HALCYONID^, 



56. Cervle alcyon (L. ) Boie. 



Common summer resident. Arrives April 10th ; remains until November. 

 Generally distributed over the various streams of the Territory. 



(57.) Ceryle AMERICANA (Gm.) Boie. 



Observed at several points on the Colorado River between Forts Mojave and 

 Yuma, which I believe is the first recorded instance of its occurrence in the 

 United States elsewhere than in the valley of the Rio Grande. 



COLOPTEIUDM. 



58. Tyrannus vociferans Swains. 



Abundant summer resident. Arrives third week in April ; remains until 

 latter part of Sept. Found in every sort of locality. 



Adult individuals of the same sex hardly vary appreciably in size ; and the 

 colors are exceedingly constant. Males average from 9* X 16"5 to 9*25 X 

 16'75 ; females measure about 8*75 X 16. Iris brown. Bill and feet black. 

 Mouth livid flesh color. 



The young of'the year in July and August; differ materially from the adults. 

 The mouth and some part of the lower mandible are bright yellow. The feet 

 are light colored instead of black. The primaries are not attenuated near 

 their tips. There is no trace of the red in the crown. Tiie outer web of 

 the exterior tail feather is barely appreciably lighter than the rest. The wing 

 coverts are strongly margined and tipped with pale rufous ; the quill feathers 

 less conspicuously edged with yellowish white. The back is nearly pure dull 

 brown, concolor with the head instead of being olive gray in contrast with the 

 plumbeous head. Below the two ages are nearly alike ; but the yellow is 

 sometimes so pale as to be dull sulphury white ; while the breast is rather 

 brown than plumbeous. The chin is always conspicuously pure white. 



(59.) Tyrannus verticalis Say. 



A bird which in its extensive wanderings includes Arizona, though that 

 country cannot be considered as properly a part of its habitat. Dr. Cooper 

 has taken it at Fort Mojave, and throughout Southern California. I have 

 never met with it at Fort Whipple, where vociferans is so very abundant. 



60. Myiarchus MExicANUs (Kaup.) Baird. 



Common summer resident. Arrives third week in April; remains until 

 middle of September. Seldom found in the pines, preferring ravines, hill- 

 sides, creek bottoms, etc. Some winter as high in the Colorado Valley aa 

 Fort Mojave. (January; Cooper.') Iris brown. Mouth livid flesh color. Bill 

 and feet black. Moult through July and August. 



At Fort Whipple young birds were first observed early in July. Though 

 not mistakable for any other species, they differ notably from the adults. The 

 head is clear brown, in tolerably strong contrast to the color of the back, which 

 latter is lighter and duller than that of the adult. All the wing coverts are 

 80 widely edged and tipped with light rufous as to give the prevailing color 



1866.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF TFIE ACADEMY OF 



to these parts. The reddish edging of the primaries is very broad, and takes 

 in more of the primaries, but is duller than in the adult. The tail differs 

 most ; instend of being dimidiated with clear brown and deep pure chestnut, 

 (the outer webs and tips being of the former color,) the whole tail is light dull 

 chestnut, more or less obscured by dusky towards the bases of the feathers ; 

 the central pair having a narrow median shaft line of this color. The under 

 parts are quite similar to thosn of the adults ; the yellow being fully as in- 

 tense. The bill and feet are black, as in the adult ; the mouth, however, is 

 bright yellow. 



The males average 8-50 X 13-25. The females aregeneraly fully -50 X 1'50 

 shorter in these dimensions ; a somewhat unusual amount of difference in this 

 family. 



61. Sayornis sayus (Bp.) Baird. 



Common throughout the Territory ; a summer resident at Fort Whipple. Is 

 the first of the migratory birds in spring, arriving in March ; and it also re- 

 mains very late, until the middle of October. Winters in the whole Colorado 

 Valley, and southern portions of the Territory generally. Almost exclusively 

 frequents open plains in stunted chaparral, sage brush, etc. ; and in some 

 other points of habit differs remarkably from our other Fly-catchers. 



The iris is dark brown ; the bill and feet black, the mouth chiefly flesh col- 

 ored. The moult is not finished until late in September. 



There is an interesting parallelism in the migrations of the smaller Fly- 

 catchers of the eastern and western coasts. Thus the present species arrives 

 at Fort Whipple among the very first of the spring migrants, just as S.fuscus 

 does in the middle districts of the Eastern States. Both likewise depart very 

 late, some remaining through October. Next in order come various species of 

 Empidonax : — in the East, E. acadicus, trnillii, Jlaviventris and minimus ; in 

 the West, E. pusillus, difficilis, hammondii and obscurus ; which correspond 

 very nearly in their times of arrival and departure. Latest of all the Contopi 

 make their appearance : — C. virens in the East ; C. Richardsonii in the West. 



This species does not habitually frequent canons, rocky gorges, secluded 

 banks of streams, etc., like its congener, S.fuscus; nor yet does it inhabit 

 forests with the Contopi and Empidonaces. 



(62.) Sayornis nigricans Bonap. 



A very abundant and permanent resident in the valleys of the Gila and 

 Colorado, and more southern portions of the Territory generally. ** Winters 

 as high as Fort Mojave," (Cooper.) Not found at Fort Whipple, though de- 

 tected a very few miles southward of that locality. On the Pacific coast it has 

 been found considerably north of the latitude of Whipple ; and will in all pro- 

 bability be found as at least a summer visitant to the latter place. 



63. CoNTOPus PERTiNAx Cab. 



Contopus ^' borealis exMex..^^ of many authors. "Not Tyrannusboreaf is 



Sw. et Rich. 

 Contopus pertinax, Cab. Mus. Hein. ii. 1859, p. 72. 



Very rare summer resident at Fort Whipple. A single specimen, taken 

 Aug. 20, in good plumage, though most other Fly catchers were in moult. 

 The bill above was black, the lower mandible and mouth rich orange yellow. 

 This young specimen differs from adult examples from Mexico in having more 

 brown rather than pure dark olive in the color of the upper parts, in having 

 the rump and upper tail coverts margined with dull ferrugineous ; all the 

 wing coverts and the secondaries broadly edged and tipped with the same, 

 palest on the secondaries ; and a wash of rufous on the under parts gen- 

 erally. The tail is less deeply forked. 



This is a species to which are to be referred the various citations of ** bore- 

 alis " from Mexico ; which latter species does not appear to include this 

 country in its range. The differences between the two are more palpable than 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 61 



is generally the case in this group of birds. There is more of olive, and less 

 of pure dark brown in the upper parts. The uader parts are of a nearly uni- 

 form soiled dull brownish olive, only a little lighter on the throat, and some- 

 what tinged with yellowish on the middle of the abdomen, very different from 

 the streaked brown breast and white throat ^nd abdomen of horealis. The 

 bill is much longer though not wider than that of horealis ; bright yellow be- 

 low. The tuft of white crissal feathers is far less conspicuous. In pertinax 

 the second, third and fmrth quills are about equal to each other, and longest ; 

 the first half an inch shorter than the second ; intermediate in length between 

 the fifth and sixth. In horealis the second quill is much the longest, the first 

 and third about equal and '15 of an inch shorter than the second ; the fourtli 

 •50, and the fifth '90 of an inch shorter than the longest. A very difi'erently 

 shaped wing is thus produced. The tail of pertinax is nearly half an inch 

 longer than that of horealis. 



The present species is one of several Mexican and Peninsular birds which 

 are found in upper Arizona ; doubtless following the course of the Valley of 

 the great Colorado. It is now for tl>e first time introduced into the Fauna of 

 the United States. 



64. CoNTOPus RiCHARDSONii (Swains.) Baird. 



Exceedingly abundant summer resident. Arrives in spring about May 1st, 

 the latest of the Fly-catchers, as does C. vireiis in the Ea^t, Departs third 

 week in September. Found in all situations, but especially in open forests. 

 Iris brown. Bill and feet black ; the under mandible s^omewhat lighter col- 

 ored. Mouth bright yellow. 



The plumage of the upper parts of the young of the year is plain dull 

 brown, with no olive tint ; some of the feathers (chiefly those of the head 

 and rump) tipped with dull rufous ; which sometimes, especially on the 

 rump, gives the main color to the part. Below the olivaceous gray of the 

 adult is ^very where mixed with considerable dull ferrugineous ; only the 

 chin and middle of the belly being untinged with this color. All the wing 

 coverts and the inner primaries are strongly edged and tipped with ferrugine- 

 ous. The iris is brown ; the bill above and the feet black ; the lower mandi- 

 ble yellow except at tip ; the mouth oiange yellow. 



In examining the very lar^e series of skins I have collected on the Rio 

 Grande in New Mexico, and in Arizona, together with specimens from Colora«lo 

 Territory and other parts of the west, there has been made upon me an im- 

 pression that there are two species. By far the majority of specimens are of 

 the regulation Richardsonii type. A few others in the series and from very 

 various and diverse localities, diflfer in being all over of a more decided and 

 uniform grayish brown ; with less of olive above and with no trace below of 

 any sulphury olive on the abdomen ; this part with the throat being more 

 decidedly dull whitish than the rest of the series ; and the breast more purely 

 gray, in contrast to the lighter colored throat and abdomen. The bird may be 

 well described as a miniature of C. horealis. Prof. Baird has always, to me, 

 verbis et Uteris, indicated his decided conviction that there are two species in 

 the collection ; and we have been in the habit of designating these gray speci- 

 mens as Contopus Veliei, after Dr. Velie, who sent the first example from the 

 mountains of Colorado Territory. But the proportions of the birds appear the 

 same in every specimen ; and I have noticed, too, that all these gray ones are 

 late summer or early fall birds, and I must candidly confess my inability to 

 satisfactorily discern in the series a second species. 



65. Empidonax pusillus (Swains.) Baird. 



Moderately abundant summer resident. None of the several Empidortaces 

 found at Fort Whipple are very numerous ; and this is perhaps the most char- 

 acteristic species. Arrives middle of April ; remains through September. 

 Several excellent and typical examples of both old and young are in my col- 

 lection, which I have no difficulty in identifying by Prof. Baird's superb mo- 

 nograph. 



1866.] 




62 TROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Iris blackish brown. Logs and feet and nppnr mandible black ; lower man- 

 dible dusky llesh. No. :^(jl)4r), measures 5-9 X 8-7 ; No. :^(5944, 6-1 X 9-2. 



A young bird in my Fort Yuma collection, (Sept. 17, 1865,) differs greatly 

 from the adult in colors, though the proportions are accurately preserved. It 

 is everywhere very strongly suffused with olive, becoming olivaceous yellow 

 beneath, almost like ftaviventr is or difficilis. The middle of the abdomen, how- 

 ever, is more decidedly whitish, and the sides of the breast somewhat rufous. 

 The bands on the wings and the edges of the primaries are very strongly 

 tinged with ferrugineous, especially the former. The tail is margined with a 

 duller shade of the same color, as is also the under coverts of the wing near 

 its edge The upper mandible is black ; the lower with the whole mouth 

 bright yellow. The feet are brownish. But with this similarity of colors the 

 shape of the bill, and the proportions of some other parts will always readily 

 distinguish it from Jlaviventris or difficilis. 



The Platyrhjjnchus pusillus of Swainson (Syn. Mex. Birds in Phil. Mag. 

 May, 1827, 366,) is one of several Tijrannime which Dr. Sclater finds it difficult 

 to determine satisfactorily, (P. Z. S., 1859, p. 44.) The species is, I think, 

 most undoubtedly the same as that subsequently described and figured by 

 Swainson and Richardson, (F. B. A. ii. 1831, p. 144,) which Prof. Baird has 

 shown quite conclusively to be the species now under consideration. I have 

 elsewhere (vide infra) shown where I think belongs Tyrannula affinis of 

 Swainson's Mexican synopsis, 



66. Empidonax difficilis Baird. 



E. difficilis Baird. B. N. A., 1858, p. 198 ; name proposed in text of 

 Jlaviventris for western specimens. 

 Rather rare ; summer resident ; arrives middle of April ; remains until lat- 

 ter part of September. 



Iris brown ; feet black ; upper mandible black, lower light yellow. 

 It is somewhat difficult to distinguish this supposed species from the eastern 

 fiaviveiiti-is. 



67. Empidonax Hammondii (Xantus) Baird. 



Rather rare summer resident. Arrives lite in April; remains until third 

 week in October. 



A species readily discernible among the little North American Empidonnces 

 by its diminutive bill, the deep forking of the tail, and the proportions of the 

 primaries, independently of its peculiar shades of color. The grayish white 

 tips of the lesser and median wing coverts are very conspicuous. The white 

 margin of the inner primaries and secondaries are well defined ; but stop ab- 

 ruptly before reaching the greater coverts, so that a well marked area is thus 

 left entirely dark colored ; except on a single feather, (the innermost secon- 

 dary), which is margined for its whole length. Specimens hardly vary in 

 size ; not more than a fourth of an inch in length, and a little more in extent 

 The bill is almost wholly dark colored ; the under mandible being only slightly 

 lighter in color. The legs and feet are black. The mouth at all seasons is 

 bright yellow. 



In the fall, as usual, the whole colors of young birds are tinged more or less 

 strongly with yellowish olive ; and sometimes on certain parts with pale fer- 

 rugineous. The back especially towards the rump is quite decidedly olivace- 

 ous brown ; the head not so purely brown as in spring. The bands on the 

 wing, and the margins of the primaries are tinged with rufous olive. The under 

 parts, especially on the abdomen and flanks, are strongly olive yellow, giving 

 somewhat the aspect of Jlaviventris ; but the throat and breast remains much 

 as in spring. 

 68. Empidonax ob^curus (Swains.) Baird. 



Tyranmda ohscura, Swains. Syn. Mex. Phil. Mag. i. 1827, p. 337. 

 Empidonax Wrightii, Baird, Birds N. A., 1858, p. 200. (Provisional 

 name, in text under E. obscurus.) 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. fe^ 



Summer resident; rare. Arrives early in April: remains until October. 

 Bill black above ; bright yellow below, except at its extreme tip. Mouth 

 yellow at all seasons. Iris brown. Subject to only very slight variations in 

 size. 



One of the most strongly marked of our Empidonaces. Its essential char- 

 acters lie in the much elongated and very narrow bill ; the long tarsi ; the 

 tail not forked, but rather the reverse ; and the conspicuously contrasted 

 white outer web of the exterior rectrices. Its colors are almost precisely 

 those of Hammondii, but the proportions of the two birds are quite different. 



There are several discrepancies between the present bird and the brief and 

 unsatisfactory description of Swainson above cited, as shown by Prof. Baird, 

 who proposes the name " Wrightii^' in the event that the Mexican bird 

 proves distinct from that of the United States. 



[Note. — Dr. J. Gr. Cooper furnishes me with the following: ''Empidonax 

 Traillii. I have found this species west of the Mojave River and Cajou Pass, 

 and at Santa Barbara, in California. It was abundant at Fort Mojave : a shy 

 and retiring species ; keeping in the willow and cotton wood copses of the 

 river bottom." Though disliking to suppose an error of identification in so 

 judicious a naturalist, I am of opinion that the note refers to pusillus. and not 

 to Traillii. Still Traillii is found in Mexico, and may very possibly ascend 

 the valley of the Colorado.] 



MITREPHORUS Scl. 



Mitrephorus, Sclater, P. Z. S., 1859, p. 44 ; type M. phceocercus Scl. 



A genus founded by Dr. Sclater, as above, to receive certain small Tyran- 

 nuline forms, closely allied to Empidonax, but differing from that genus in 

 the elongation of the occipital feathers, and a general fulvous or huffy suffu- 

 sion which tinges all the colors of the species. 



To the genus thus based upon M. phceocercus from Central Mexico, also 

 belongs the Muse capa fu'vifrons of Griraud. A third species is one recently 

 described by Mr. Lawrence,* from Costa Rica, as M. aurantiiventris, differing 

 from ph(eocercns in being rather smaller, the rusty fulvous of the under parts 

 much lighter, becoming bright orange yellow on the abdomen and sides, etc. 



I have the pleasure of introducing this neotropical genus into the United 

 States Ornis, upon specimens taken at Fort Whipple, of a species I shall 

 describe as new ; but which is so closely allied to M. fulvifrons that the two 

 may hereafter prove to be identical. 



69. MiTREPHORUs PALLESCENS Coues, nov. sp. 



?:^Ttjr"nnula affinis, Swainson,f Syn. Mex. Birds, Phil. Mag. i. 1827, 



p! 366. 

 ? Miiscicapa fulvifrons, Giraud, B. Texas, pi. 2, fig. 2,'= Empidonax 

 fulvifonf, Scl. P. Z. S., 1858, p. 301, = Mitrephorus fulvifrons, Scl. 

 P. Z. S., 1859, p. 45, = Empidonax rubicundus, Cab. Mus. Hein, ii. 

 p. 70. 

 Empidonax pygmaus Coues, Newton's Ibis, 1865. (MS. name men- 

 tioned in text.) 

 Sp, Ch. — Above plain dull grayish brown, tinged with olive, particularly 

 on the middle of the back; the head and rump hardly appreciably thus 

 tinged. Below very pale fulvous, most pronounced across the breast, the 

 chin and throat being much lighter, and the abdomen almost white. No ful- 

 vous suffusion about the forehead ; the dark feathers of the crown reaching to 

 the bill ; the space between eye and bill, the auriculars and sides of the head 

 generally light brownish olive, with no trace of fulvous. Wings and tail plain 



♦ Annals Lye. Nat. Sci. Hist. New York, viil. Nov., 1865, p. 174. 



t T. II (finis ow. I.e. •'Olive, b< iieath pale fulvous; wing coverts and qnilla with pale margins; 

 bajitt of lef>8i'r quills with a blajkish t>pot; bill small; under mandible yellow ; tail divarkate." 



I860.] 




64 rROOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



dusky ; tlie outer web of the external rectricea, the margins of the inner pri- 

 maries, except just at their hase, and the lips of greater and median covtrts, 

 dull whito, with no tint of olive or ferrugineous. Iris brown ; upper mandible 

 and feet black, lower mandible and mouth bright yellow. Length 4*75 ; 

 extent 7*30 ; wing from the carpus 2'15 ; tail 2*00; tarsua '55; middle toe 

 and claw -45 ; bill above '40. 



Habitdt.—Fort Whipple, Arizona. A summer resident, arriving early in 

 May. Rare. Found in similar situations with Empidonaces. 



I have before me but a single specimen of Miirephorus J'ulnfrons, which, 

 judging from the rufous in the white of the wing margins, and general " feel" 

 of tlie feathers is probably an autumnal or immature bird. It was received 

 from Mexico through the Maison Verreaux, and labelled by those gentlemen. 

 From this specimen, my two examples, taken in May, at Fort Whipple, differ 

 conspicuously in color ; the upper parts being dull grayish brown, with hardly 

 a tinge of olivaceous, instead of decided fulvous brownish olive ; the lower 

 parts being pale fulvous, only well marked on the breast, other portions, par- 

 ticularly the abdomen, being nearly white ; whereas, in the specimen of fulm- 

 frons, the whole under parts are very strongly fulvous, almost ferrugineous, 

 only a little lighter on the chin and on the abdomen, which latter is rusty 

 yellow instead of nearly white. The forehead and lores of my specimens 

 exhibit no trace of the color which has given the other species its distinctive 

 name. 



I can, however, detect no differences whatever in size or form between the 

 two, I consider it as quite possible that the discrepancies above indicated 

 may prove to be only those of age or season. Still,- a decided difference in 

 color does exist, sufficient to warrant me in describing the species as distinct, 

 for the present, at least. The range of habitat of the two is quite diverse. 



No comparisons with M. phmocercus or aurantiiveniria are needed. 



Dr. Sclater, in instituting his species phmocercus, inclines to the opinion 

 that it may be the species indicated by Swainson as Tyrannula affinis. (See 

 citation and copy of Swainson's description, antea.) It is quite likely that 

 Swainson had in view some species of Mitrephorus ; but I think rather the 

 present species than /)Aoeoce7-cMs, as the expression "beneath pale fulvous" 

 hardly applies to the latter, in which the parts are very strongly colored 

 indeed. However, Swainson's description is so vague and meagre, that it is 

 liardly worth considering at all, in view of the impossibility of identifying it 

 positively with any species. 



I use another name than that under which I first mentioned the species in 

 Newton's Ibis, as above ; since the species being not smaller than /w/yi/rons, 

 the name pygmceus would convey an erroneous impression regarding it. 



(70.) PYROCEpgALUs MExicANUs Sclater. 



Pyrocephalits ruhineus, Baird, B. N A., 1858, p. 201, (New Mexico and 



Arizona,) and of North American writers. Not Muscicapa rubineus 



Bodd., nor Muscicapa coronata Gm. Wagler, which refer to the South 



American species. 



Pifrocephalus nanus, Woodbouse, Sitgreave's Report, 1853, p. 75. Not 



the true nanus. 

 Pyrocephalus mexicanus, Sclater, P. Z. S., 1859, p. 45. 

 Not found as far north as Whipple, among the mountains, though it 

 extends up the valley of the Colorado to an equally high latitude. Common 

 in the valley of the Gila and Southern Arizona generally. 



Without the material for forming an opinion of my own, I follow Dr. Sclater 

 in separating the Mexican bird from that of South America. 



TURDIDjE. 



71. TcRDDS (Planesticus) MiGRATORius Linn. 



Abundant ; resident ; a few winter, and fewer still breed ; exceedingly 

 numeroas in spring and fall. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



72. TuRDus (Hylocichla *) NANUS Audub. 



Rare ; spring and autumn migrant ; some breed ? A few probably winter ; 

 as it certainly does at Fort Mojave, where Dr. Cooper has found it in January. 

 A shy and retiring species, like T. pallusii. 



73. TcRDus CHesperocichla f) njevius Gmelin. 



Was obtained on the Colorado, between Forts Yuma and Mojave, by Lieut. 

 Ives' Expedition in 1853 ; but this locality must be considered as exceptional. 



74. MiMus POLYGLOTTUs (L.) Boie. 



Common summer resident. Arrives third week in April ; remains until 

 latter part of September. I found it more numerous on the Colorado Clii- 

 quito than among the Whipple *Iountains. My specimens from the Rio 

 Grande are quite like those from Arizona, of the variety caudatus Baird. 



No. 1480, Adult. Iris yellowish green. Bill and feet blackish. No. 392, 

 adult. Iris ochraceous yellow. No. 560, young. Iris gray, mouth yellow, 

 feet leaden blue, soles dirty white ; bill above blackish, below chiefly dull 

 flesh color. 



75. Oroscoptes montanus (Towns.) Baird. 



It is a little singular that I never saw this species about Fort Whippley 

 since it is so well known a bird of almost every portion of Arizona. 



(76.) Harporhynchus Lecontei (Lawr.) Bp. 



On the 30th of September, 1865, I had the pleasure of procuring the second 

 known specimen of this excessively rare and little known species. I found it 

 on a dry, barren plain, covered chiefly with mezquite and several genera of 

 Cactacece, about fifteen miles from the Colorado River, just above Fort 

 Mojave. It was very shy and restless, fluttering hurriedly from one cactus 

 bush to another, till at last I shot it as it fancied itself hidden among the 

 thick fronds of a large Yucca. Its large strong feet a-lmirably adapt it for 

 a partially terrestrial life, and it spends much of its time on thni ground, 

 where it runs rapidly and easily, its flight is swift but desultory, accom- 

 panied by continual flirting of the tail. A few days afterward I saw several 

 more in the same place. 



My specimen agrees exactly with Mr. Lawrence's type and description, and 

 presents all those difterences from crissalis detailed by Prof. Baird in his Birds 

 of North America. Mr. Lawrence's type is from Fort Yuma. The species is 

 undoubtedly an inhabitant of the whole of the valleys of the Colorado and 

 Gila, probably not leaving these streams for mountainous regions. 



(77.) Harporhynchus crissalis Henry. 



Colorado and Gila valleys. Not observed at Whipple. " A few keep about 

 Fort Moj ave. " ( Cooper. ) 



The second known specimen of H. crissalis is in the Smithsonian, from 

 Fort Yuma, the original locality of H. Lecontei. The range of both species is 

 doubtless quite identical ; and the fact that, though thus associating, they 

 still preserve intact their distinctive fea'ures, is a strong argument in favor 

 of their separation. I have myself examined Dr. Henry's type specimen of 

 H. crissalis, and find it sufficiently distinct from Lecontei^ whatever may be its 

 relations to the coast species redivivus. 



'Yh.Q ^^t Harporhynchus curvirostris''^ mentioned by Dr. Heermann in his 

 Rep6rt, as having been seen near Tucson, Southern Arizona, was undoubt- 

 edly either this or the preceding species. 



•Hylocichla, Baird, Rev. N. A. Bir.is, 1864, p. 12. Subgenus proposed for N. Anier. W(K>d 

 Th ush^8, as differing from Turdns proper with viscivorus as typo, by their shorter, wider and 

 more depressed bills, length and slenderness of the booted tarsi, etc. 



f Hespf.rocichl^, Baird, Rev. N. A. Birds, 18f5, p. 12. T}pe T. nuiviut Gm.—.'xoreus of Eona- 

 p«rte proves to belong to a diffurtjnt group. 



186t5.] 6 




60 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



CINCLIDJE, 



(78.) CiNCLDs MKxiCANUs Swainson. 



The kuowu range of this species includes Arizona. 



SAXICOLID^. 



79. SlALlA MEXICANA SwaiiisoD. 



Permanent resident. Exceedingly abundant. In its familiarity and other 

 liabits exactly replaces *S\ sialis of the east. 



Specimens vary in every conceivable degree between the dullest colored 

 young female and the high plumaged spring male. In immature plumagi^? 

 some examples much resemble S. artica ; but there is always discernible a 

 dorsal patch somewhat ditlerently colored from the rest of the upper parts. 

 The shade of blue differs in equally mature males, being sometimes of a pur- 

 plish tint, and rarely the blue so invades and interrupts the dorsal chestnut as 

 to render the boundaries of the latter quite iindefinable. 



KO. SiALiA AKCTiCA Swaiuson. 



Rather uncommon. Noticed only late in the autumn and in the winter ; 

 not observed to breed at Fort Whipple, and I think it is there chiefly a winter 

 visitant. Has been taken as far isouth as Fort Yuma. Audubon s figure of 

 the female is quite incorreit. The species differs conspicuously from mexi- 

 caria in its habits. 



SYLVIID^. 



81. Regulus calendulus Licht. 



Exceedingly abundant ; migrant. In spring, from third week in March to 

 second week in May. In autumn, from latter part of September to November. 

 A few probably breed in the neighboring mountains. The species remains in 

 abundance in the Colorado Valley during the winter, at least as high as Mo- 

 jave. 



82. Regulus satrapus Licht. 



Has been taken in the Territory, though 1 have myself never met with it. 



83. Polioptila cjerulea (Linn.) Scl. 



Culicivora mexicana Bonap. Polioptila mexicana Sclater. But not of 

 Cassin, which is melanura. 

 Rare; summer resident; first individuals noticed April 25. ''Winters in 

 the Colorado Valley.'' Cooper. 



84. Polioptila plumbea Baird. 



P. p/umbea, Baird, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1854, p. 118. Id. Birds N. A. 

 1858, p. 382, pL 33, fig. i. Id. Rev. Amer. Birds, 1865, p. 74, (Ari- 

 zona.) 

 Es-entially a bird of the Southern Middle fauna, and generally distributed 

 throughout Arizona, though no where very abundantly. Bill William's River, 

 Keimerlq, (original types of species ;) Fort Yuma, Ives ; Colorado Chiquito, 

 Fort Mojave, Beale's Springs, Has-ayampa Creek, near Fort Whipple, Couea. 

 At the last mentioned locality it is a summer resident. " Winters in the Co- 

 lorado Valley." Cooper. 



(85.) Polioptila melanura Lawr. 



Culicivora atricapilla, Lawrence, olim. Not of Swainson, which ig 

 leucor/astra, Maxim. 

 • Culicivora mexicana, Cassin, not of Bonaparte oi Sclater, which is true 

 coerulea. 

 Polioptila melanura, Lawrence, nuper. Baird, B. N. A., 1858, p. 382. 

 Id. Rev. 1865, p. 68. Heermann, P. R. R. Survey, x, pt. iv. p. 39, 

 (Arizona.) 

 Chiefly a species of the Southern Middle Province ; bat extending westward 



[March J 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



to the Pacific, iu the latitude of San Diego, California. Port Yuma, loes ; 

 Pima Villages, Southern Arizona, Heermann. Probably not to be found as 

 high up as Fort Whipple, being restricted to the Gila and Lower Colorado 



Valleys. 



MOTACILLID^, 



86. Anthos ludovicianus Licht. 



Abundant. Winter resident. Arrives late in the autumn, according to 

 weather, and remains until May. None breed in the vicinity of Fort Whipple, 



DACNID^, 



(87.) Cerfhiola /taveola (L.) Sund. 



This species, first introduced into the United States Fauna by specimens 

 from Indian Key, Florida, has since been found abundantly at Mataraoras and 

 Brownsville, Texas, and also at Cape St. Lucas. It ranges over the interme- 

 diate ground along the Southern border of the Territory, 



SYLVLW02DyE. 



88. Dendroeca Graci^ Coues. 



Dendroica Gracice^ Coues MSS., in Baird's Rev. Amer. Birds, Ap^., 

 1865, p. 210. 



Description, (Orig. No. 1293, J^, Apr. 26, 1865, Fort Whipple.) Bill shorter 

 than head or tarsus, about equal to the middle toe without its claw ; the cul- 

 men convex, the gonys very slightly so, the commissure a little curved. 

 Wings of ordinary length for this genus ; second and third primaries about 

 equal and longest ; first and fourth about equal to each other, and but little 

 iess than the second or third. Sometimes the first four hardly difier appreci- 

 ably in length. Fifth -20 of an inch shorter than fourth. Tail of ordinary 

 length ; a little rounded, the outer lateral rectrices being a tenth of an inch 

 less than the median pair. Tarsus a little longer than the middle toe and claw» 

 Lateral toes short, equalling each other in lengthy the tips of their claws fall- 

 ing short of the base of the middle claw. Hind claw much longer and more 

 curved than the others ; about as long as its digit. 



Adult spring plumage, — Entire upper parts ashy gray, with a tinge of blui>h 

 slate; the interscapular feathers conspicuously, and the upper tail coverts ob- 

 soletely streaked with black. A broad stripe of bright yellow passes from the 

 nostril over the eye, changing abruptly into pure white as it passes over the 

 posterior canthus. Edges of upper and lower eyelids yellow ; that of 

 the latter more or less confluent with a small semilunar patch of yel- 

 low just below the eye. Chin, throat and upper part of the breast broadly 

 and uninterruptedly bright yellow, bordered on each side by streaks of black, 

 which separate it from the slaty gray of the sides of the neck ; more anteriorly 

 a black line cutting off the infra-ocular yellow eiescent from the yellow of the 

 throat. Lores between eye and bill black, and the feathers of the crown 

 centrally black, most so on the forehead, less so on the occiput, producing an 

 appearcnce much like that of Mijiodioctea canadensis. Lesser and median 

 wing coverts colored like the back, greater coverts like the primaries ; both 

 median and greater conspicuously tipped with white, the former much the 

 most broadly. Primaries dusky ; the first three or four with an exceedingly 

 narrow margin of white ; the rest and the secondaries with somewhat pale 

 edges. Tail like the wings; the outermost lateral rectrices white, except 

 their shafts, and a very small area at the base of the inner web, and the outer 

 web for half its length from the base ; next feather similar, but the dusky 

 area twice as large ; the third has only a small, somewhat triangular spot of 

 white near the end of the inner web. The under parts, from the termination 

 of the trenchantly defined yellow of the breast, are white ; immaculate on th« 

 -centre of the abdomen ; thickly streaked along the sides with large, partially 

 1866.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



blended, black liuea. The iris, bill and feet are black ; the soles of the latter 

 dirty yellow. 



YoiiTiif of the year. The slate gray of the upper parts is strongly tinged with 

 olivaceous, least marked on the rump. The black streaks of the crown and 

 interscapular region are so obsolete as to be scarcely discernible. The yellow 

 of the head and throat has about the same extent as in the adult, but the 

 tint is much paler, and it is not edged along the sides of the breast and neck 

 by black streaks. The black lores are poorly defined. The white tips of the 

 greater and median wing coverts are grayish rather than pure white. 

 The strongly defined, black, lateral streaks of the adult are replaced by more 

 or less obsolete and semiconfluent, brownish black ones, and the abdomen, 

 crissum and circumanal region are ratlur ochraceons than pure white. The 

 bill and feet are lighter colored. The white on the tail feathers does not dif- 

 fer materially from that of the adults. Between the extremes of color, as 

 thus characterized, are to be found every gradation in amount of slatiness and 

 olivaceous, of distinctness of the black lateral streaks, and intensity of 

 yellow. 



Variations. In a series of over twenty specimens of all ages and seasons, I 

 find examples varying from 4-9 to 5-20 in length, and to a corresponding de- 

 gree in extent of wings. The average dimension is 5*00 X 8-00 X 2-60. In- 

 dividuals of the same age and season hardly vary appreciably in color ; some- 

 times the black streaks of the crown show a tendency to become segregated on 

 each side as a margin to the superciliary streak, leaving the centre of the 

 (town immaculate, or the black may occupy the whole crown almost to the 

 exclusion of the greyish slate. The yellow and white are always trenchantly 

 separated on the breast, and a black border always divides the yellow chin 

 from the yellow on the side of the head. The interscapular region may vary 

 in its amount of streaking. The greater coverts are sometimes edged, as well 

 as tipped with dull white. 



Remarks. D. Graciie is exceedingly unlike any other North American 

 warbler. Its upper parts bear a striking resemblance to those of Mijiodiocf.es 

 canadensis. It agrees with dominica (=; superciliosa) in the yellow throat, 

 but is otherwise quite ditlerent from that species. It is closely allied to Baird's 

 new Porto Rican species, D. Adelaidce, but this latter has the yellow extended 

 over the whole under parts, and otherwise differs materially in some points of 

 form as well as color. 



Habitat. First met with July 2, 1864, in the pine woods covering the sum- 

 mit of Whipple's Pass of the Rocky Mountains. I saw no more on my journey 

 into Central Arizona, till again among pines at Fort Whipple, where it is a 

 very common bird, being in fact as abundant as virens ov striata in our eastern 

 forests. It will doubtless be found in the forests of the San Francisco Mount- 

 ains. Its range seems to include all the pine tracts of New Mexico and Arizo- 

 na, from near the Valley of the Rio Grande to that of the Great Colorado. It 

 breeds about Whipple ; how far south it may go in winter into Mexico I am 

 unable to say. 



Arrives at Fort Whipple Apr. 20, and remains until third week in September. 

 Almost exclusive'y pinicoline. An active, industrious, noisy species, posses- 

 sing marked muscicapine habits, flying out from its perch to capture passing 

 insects. Like many other diminutive birds, it ambitiously prefers to inhabit 

 the tallest trees. It has several notes, one of which is the ordinary "tsip," 

 emitted at all times by both old and young of most small insectivorous birds. 

 Its song proper, only heard in spring, consists of two or three loud, sweet 

 whistles, somewhat slurred, followed by several continuous notes resembling 

 *'chir-r-r " in a wiry but clear tone. This note is of much power for the size 

 of the bird. Another song, uttered when pairing, is much like that of Seto- 

 I'liaga ruticilla. The birds mate as early as May 1st, and doubtless raise two 

 broods, as I have found newly fledged young as late as the middle of August. 



[Marcb, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



[Note.— Just as these sheets are passing through the press, I find several 

 «xampl« s of this species in a collection made by Mr. C. Wood, at Belize, Hon- 

 duras, where it is said to be quite common. They are rather smaller than 

 iny Arizona specimens, but otherwise quite identical. It is somewhat re- 

 markable that the species has never been detected in the regions lying be- 

 tween these two countries.] 



89. Dendr(eca NIGRESCENS (Towns.') Baird. 



Common ; chiefly spring and autumn migrant ; but a few breed. Arrives 

 about Apr. 20, remains until late in September. Chieflv pinicoline, and in 

 other habits as well as in voice is exceedingly similar to D. Gracue. 



This species is by no means so peculiarly a Pacific one as has generally 

 been supposed. 



90. DendR(eca occidentalis (Towns. ) Baird. 



Very rare. Summer resident. A single specimen of this little known 

 species, taken early in September in thick scrub oak bushes. It measured 

 4*9 X 7*7. In this immature state the dusky olivaceous extends over the 

 whole upper parts, deeply tinging the pure ash of the rump of the adults with 

 a somewhat lighter shade of the olivaceous of the back, and extending for- 

 ward on the crown nearly to the front, where it gradually lightens by becom- 

 ing more and more mixed with yellow. The sides of the head are clear yellow, 

 only slightly soiled by olivaceous, and the chin and throat are the same, fad- 

 ing insensibly on the breast into the dull greyish white of the nnder parts 

 generally. The sides show indications of streaks, very obsolete, however, and 

 have a slight wash of grayish olivaceous. There is no black whatever about 

 the head or throat, and the back is only very obsoletely streaked with that 

 color. The greater and median coverts are conspicuously tipped with white- 



A suite of specimens illustrating all the changes of plumage of this species, 

 80 closely allied to virens, chrysopareia, etc., is still a great desideratum. 



91. Dende<eca Addubonii (Towns.) Baird. 



Exceedingly abundant ; spring and autumn migrant. A few possibly breed. 

 Some remain all winter. " Numerous at Fort Mojave iu winter," {Cooper.) 

 Very numerous from Apr. 20th to May 10th, and during the month of Octo- 

 ber, in which seasons the cotton-woods and willows of the creek bottoms are 

 filled with the birds, which are also found in every other situation more or 

 less abundantly. 



Specimens in very high spring plumage have the black of the breast quite 

 pure, and unmixed with slate in any portion of its extent, contrasting sharply 

 with the whole width of the posterior edge of the yellow throat. The streaks 

 on the sides and flanks are very narrow and distinctly defined. The intersca- 

 pulare is very thickly streaked with black. The greater wing coverts are so 

 broadly edged with white as to leave only a small space on their inner webs 

 dusky. The yellow crown is intense in color, small and sharply defined, and 

 there is much black on the front and lores. For so small a bird, the species 

 varies much in size. Seasonal and sexual changes of plumage are quite ho- 

 mologous with those of D. co/onaia. 



92. Dende(eca estiva (Gm.) Baird. 



Abundant. Summer resident, from April 25th to second week in September. 

 Most numerous in the willow and cotton-wood copses. 



93. GeOTHLYPIS TRICHAS (L.) Cob. 



Trichas delajieldii ! Heerraan, P. R. R. Surv. x. 1859, p. 40. 



Rare ; summer resident. Arrives early in April ; remains until October. 

 Less common than the succeeding species. 



Dr. Heerman is mistaken in supposing he saw Trichas delajieldii Audubon, 

 in Arizona. This is a synomym of Geothljfpis lequinoctialis, from South 

 America. 



1866.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



94. GEOTnLTPis MAcoiLLiVBAYi ( Aud.) Baird. 



Not abundant. Summer resident. Arrives late in April : remains till late 

 in September. Exceedingly shy and retiring:, keeping in tlie closest thickets, 

 and very difficnlt to procure. 



Specimens at all seasons and ages have the white eyelids distingnishing the 

 species from Philadelphia. Autumnal examples, though possessing the grayish 

 ash throat just as in spring individuals, have the nape and crown s-o much 

 washed with olivaceous as to be nearly concolor with the back. Iris brown- 

 ish black. Bill black above and at tip of lower mandible, the rest of lower 

 mandible and feet delicate flesh color. Average dimensions 5] X 7|. 



95. Helmintiiophaga cblata (Say.) Baird. 



Not detected at Port Whipple, though doubtless to be found there in spring 

 and fall, or possibly breeding. Fort Yuma, Sept. 17. Port Mofave Oct. Ist. 

 Headwaters Bill William's River, Oct. 3. Throughout the whole of the middle 

 and western provinces of North America, 



The H. rtijieopilla though properly belonging to the eastern Province, ha» 

 been recorded from Fort Tejon, California, (Baird B. N. A. 1858, appendix,, 

 p. 923, ) and may very probably be hereafter detected in Arizona. 



96. Helminthophaga virgini/k Baird. 



H. Virginia^, Baird, Explanation of Plates of B. N. A. 1860, ix. pi. 19, 

 fig. i. Idem, Rev. Amer. Birds, 1865, p. 177. 

 Very rare : summer resident. A single immature individuaJ procured 

 August 15, 1864, making the second known specimen of this excessively rare 

 species. The type is from Fort Burgwyn, N. M., Dr. W. W. Anderson, 



91. Helminthophaga LuciiE Cooper. 



N. Lucia?., Cooper, Pr. CaL Acad. Nat. Se. July, 1861, p. 120, (Fort Mo- 



jave.) Baird, Rev. Amer. Birds, 1865, p. 178. Cones, Newton's Ibis, 



1866. (Fort Whipple.) 

 This interesting little species, recently described, as above, does no-t seem 

 to be very rare in northern and western Arizona ; though so far as lam aware, 

 five specimens taken by Dr. Cooper, at Fort Mojave, and three by myself at 

 Fort Whipple, are the only ones known to exist in any collections. At Fort 

 Whipple it is a summer resident ; arriving the second or third week in April,, 

 and remaining till latter part of September. It mates from the 20th to the 

 30th of April : the young appear early in May. In habits I think it inclines 

 toward the Geothlypi rather than to the species of the genus to which it belongs ; 

 showing a decided preference for thickets and copses rather than for high open 

 woods ; and also like the Geothlypi, it is an exceedingly shy and retiring spe- 

 cies. The difficulty of observing and procnring it thns caused is doubtless the 

 reason why it has remained so long undetected. It is in all its motions ex- 

 ceedingly active and restless ; as much so indeed as a Polioptila, to which it» 

 colors bear such an intimate resemblance. The only note I have heard is a 

 quickly and often repeated " tsip," as slender and wiry as that of agnatcatcker. 

 But Dr. Cooper tells me he has heard a rich and pleasing song, in the spring, 

 the little performer being mounted on the top of some mexquite or other bush. 

 I have never met with the nest ; but I think it will be found, not on the 

 ground, but in the crotch of a thick bush. Dr. Cooper thinks the bird doe» 

 not breed in the Colorado Valley ; but retires to mountainous regions, which 

 is most probable. I have found it breeding at Whipple. Specimens measure 

 from 4-30 to 4-60 in length, and from 7 to 7| in extent. The iris is black : the 

 mouth flesh color, the legs and feet dull leaden blue. The young bird, just 

 fledgovl, wants the chestnut orown of the adult, and the throat and breast are 

 pure milk white, being without the faint ochraceous tinge that is just barely ap- 

 preciable in the adult ; the wing coverts are pale gray, and edged with ochra- 

 ceous or pale rufous. The chestnut rump is present. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 71 



98. Myiodioctes pusillus (Wils.) Bon. 



Common. Summer resident. Arrives earlj in Maj, and remains through 

 part of September. 



99. SeiDRUS NOViEBORACENSIS (Gm.) Nutt. 



The known range of this bird includes the Territory of Arizona. I have 

 not myself detected the species. 



100. ICTERIA LONGICAUDA Lawr. 



Common ; summer resident. Arrives April 25, leaves latter part of Sep- 

 tember. Iris black. Bill horn blue; most of lower mandible whitish. 

 Feet leaden blue ; the soles dirty white. 



**I procured specimens at Fort Mojave, with tails no longer than those of 

 eastern birds ; but they were much grayer above than viridis, and this latter 

 feature may be the most important distinction between the two." [Cooper.) ■ 



TANAGRID^E. 



101. Pyeanga ^estiva (L.) Vieill. 



"Fort Mojave, Apr. 26," Cooper. I think I have seen this species at 

 Whipple ; but the individuals may have been of the succeeding species. 



102. Pyranga hepatica Swains. 



P. hepatica, Swains, Phil. Mag. i. 1827, p. 438. Baird, B. N. A., 1858. 



p. 302. 

 P. azarce^ Woodhouse, Sitgreave's Expl. Zuiii and Col. Rivers, 1853, 



Birds, p. 82. Not of D'Orbig. 

 "P. dentata, Licht. Mus. Berol." (Sclater.). 

 Summer resident ; not abundant. Arrives April 25. Found in very 

 various situations. 



Several specimens collected by myself on the Rio Grrande, just below 

 Albuquerque, are quite identical. 



Dr. Woodhouse's type of P. azarce, now in the Smithsonian, was from the 

 San Francisco mountains, a little north of Whipple. 



103. Pyranga ludoviciana (Wils.) Bonap. 



Summer resident ; rare. Arrives middle of April ; leaves late in Septem- 

 ber. Iris brown, mouth yellow, legs and feet light blue. This species has an 

 extensive breeding range, from at least as far north as Laramie I'eak. 



In high spring plumage, the head and throat become intense scarlet, deep- 

 est on the crown. The middle of the back is uninterruptedly pure black, and 

 the rump is bright chrome, rather than gamboge yellow. The median and 

 greater coverts, however, and the outer edges of some of the inner second- 

 aries seem always tipped with dull yellow. The extent of red on thn breast 

 varies much. In the female, the head is merely a little more yellowish olive 

 than the color of the back ; the greater coverts and inner secondaries are 

 tipped with white instead of yellow. 



AMPELID^. 



104. Ampelis garrulus (L.) 



A winter visitant from the north, to the more northern portions of the 

 Territory. "Fort Mojave, Jan. 10, 1861." (Cooper.) I have never detected 

 it at Fort Whipple, though it is undoubtedly to be found there in winter. 



PTILIOGONIDJE. 



105. Ph^nopepla nitens (Sw.) Sclat. 



Summer resident ; rather uncommon in the immediate vicinity of Fort 

 Whipple. A little further south, however, it is found very abundantly, and 

 is doubtless a permanent resident in the southern portions of the Territory. 

 Inhabits rather open country, in preference to densely wooded regions. It is 



1866.] 




72 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



a ahy, wild and restless bird. The fact that it has a superb song, powerful 

 and finely modulated, may give a hint as to its proper place in the series. It 

 seems to me to have little affinity with the forms with which it is usually 

 grouped. 



106. Myiadb^trs Townsbndii (And.) Cab. 



Rare summer resident. This species has, like the Phamopepla nitens, 

 eminent vocal powers, producing a rich, sweet, finely-modulated song. 



It is an iiiterestin-? fact, taken in connection with its highly-developed lower 

 larynx, that the young Mi/iadestes is spotted all over exactly like a young 

 thrush. Numerous individuals which I studied several years ago differed from 

 the adult precisely as a young Tardus mi(jratorius does. Another marked 

 Turdine character is seen in the "booted" tarsi — very different from the 

 scutellations which obtain in P/tamopepla, with which Myiadestes is usually 

 intimately associated in classifications. Whether Phosnopepla is to be grouped 

 with the Ampelidce or not, I think there is little doubt that Mtjiadestes is 

 typical of an aberrant subfamily Mtfiadestince, of Turdidce. 



HIRUNDINIDJE. 



107. Progwe pubis (Linn.) Baird. 



Hirundo suhis, Linn. S. N., 1758, p. 192, (10th ed.) 

 Pro(jne sitbis, Baird, Rev. Amer. Bds., 1865, p. 274. 

 Hirundo purpurea, Linn., 12th ed. Progne purp. auct. Baird, B. N. A., 

 1858, p. 314. 

 Exceedingly abundant; summer resident. Arrives first week in April; 

 remains till third week in September. Exclusively pinicoline ; eminently 

 gregarious ; breeds in Woodpecker's holes in company with Tachycineta 

 thalassina. 



108. Petrochelidon iitnifrojvs (Say.) 



Abundant throughout the Territory, wherever suitable localities for its nests 

 are to be found. Associates freely with Pani/p'ila melanoleuca, near the San 

 Francisco mountains. Especially abundant at several points along the 

 Colorado, where the river makes it way through precipitous canons. Arrives 

 at Whipple early in April ; remains until September, 



(109.) Hirundo horreorum Barton. 



'' Numbers seen migrating through Fort Mojave, May 25, 1861." (Cooper.) 

 I found it one day in great numbers along the Rio Grande, near Albuquerque, 

 but never detected it at Fort Whipple. 



110. Tachycineta thalassina (Sw.) Cab. 



Very abundant, being the common and characteristic swallow of the pine 

 regions of Arizona, as Petrochelidon Itinifrons is of the canons, precipices, etc. 

 Summer resident at Fort Whipple, arriving about March 20, and remaining 

 until late in September. See remarks, antea, upon Progne and Panyptila. 

 Iris brown, bill black, mouth yellow, feet brownish black. 



111. CoTYLE riparia (L.) Boie. 



Rare summer resident. A few observed at Fort Whipple late in April. 



112. Stelgii>opteryx ?serripennis (And.) Baird. 



Summer resident, breeding abundantly. Arrives late in April, and remains 

 through the greater part of September. 



Some young birds, taken early in September, differ from eastern examples 

 in having the wing half an inch shorter ; the tail a fourth of an inch less. 

 The bills of both are quite identical, while the feet are even larger and 

 stouter. The upper parts are of a brighter, clear brown, instead of grayish 

 brown. The wing and tail coverts, and the outer margins of the secondaries 

 and inner primaries are edged and tipped with dull ferrugineous. The whole 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 73 



under parts as far as the abdomen have a rufescent hue. There is, as yet, no 

 trace of the recurving and serration of the outer web of the first primary. 



It is quite possible tuat these specimens should be referred to Dr. Sclater's 

 Cotyle fulvipennis, from Mexico. 



LANIID^. 



113. CoLLYRio BORKALis (Vieill.) Baird. 



Rare winter resident. A single specimen, taken in February. Iris brown ; 

 mouth yellowish white ; bill black, except at base of lower mandible ; feet 

 black. 



This is about the southernmost locality whence the species has thus far 

 been recorded. 



114. CoLLYKio ExcuBiTOROiDES (Sw.) Baird. 



Rare. Single and only specimen taken September 4th, 1864. The species 

 is probably resident in this locality, though far from abundant. 



VIREONIDuE. 



1 15. ViREo SwAiNSONi Baird. 



V. Swainsoni, Baird, B. N, A., 1858, p. 336; in text under V. gilvus ; 

 name suggested, if western species be distinct. Coues, Newton's 

 Ibis, April, 1865, p. 164. 

 V. gilvus, Cooper and Suckley, Nat. Hist, of Washington Territory, 1860, 

 p. 188. 



Sp. Ch. — Size and general aspect of V. gilvus. Upper parts olive ash, 

 decidedly less olivaceous than in gilvus ; so that the back is ne&rly concolor 

 with the head. Below whitish scarcely appreciably washed with yellowish, 

 and only along the sides ; the median portions of the under parts pure white. 

 Other markings less distinctly defined than in gilvus. Wing more rounded ; 

 fourth primary longest ; third and fifth equal to each other and nearly as 

 long; second much shorter than the sixth; hardly exceeding the seventh. 

 First (spurious) primary decidedly longer than in gilvus (-10 to -15 of an 

 inch.) 



Habitat. — Rocky Mountains to the Pacific. Common summer resident at 

 Fort Whipple, arriving in April and remsfining until October. 



Comparisons. — All the very numerous specimens of Vireo " gilvus " from the 

 Pacific slope of the Rocky Mountains constantly differ from the eastern type 

 by the quite appreciable characters expressed in the preceding diagnosis. 

 These differences, though slight indeed, are quite tangible, and, in a group 

 so little liable to variation as the Vireones, are very probably indicative of 

 specific distinction. 



The most notable distinction is found in the proportionate lengths of the 

 primaries. All eastern gilvus that I have seen have the third quill longest, 

 or the third, fourth and fifth about equal and longest, the second being equal 

 to or longer than the sixth. In the present bird the fourth quill is decidedly 

 longest; the third and fifth successively a little shorter, while the second is 

 about equal to or but little longer than the seventh, never equalling the sixth. 

 The spurious primary is from one to nearly two-tenths of an inch longer 

 than in gilvus. In addition there is a decidedly ashy rather than olivaceous 

 wash on the upper parts, rendering the crown and back nearly concolor; and 

 there is less sulphury yellow on the under parts. 



Whether these differences be "specific" or not it is certainly well to define 

 them, and give to the species or race a name by which it may be recognized. 

 Prof. Baird first called attention to these discrepancies, suggesting the name 

 I have adopted in thus characterizing the new species. 



In the discrepancies in the proportionate lengths of the quills of this 

 species and V. gilvus, there is discernible a striking analogy with the dis- 

 tinctive characters of Carpodacus calif amicus as compared with C. purpurea. 

 1866.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In both C. californicua and V. gilvua the longest primary ia advanced by one 

 over their eastern representatives, the third and fourth being respectively 

 longest, instead of the second and third ; and in both, the first quill is abbre- 

 viated. 



116. ViB3o PLUMBEus Coues, nov. sp. 



Sp. Ch — First quill spurious ; second equal to or little longer than sixth ; 

 third longest : fourth and fifth successively but little shorter. Entire upper 

 parts, including crown, sides of neck and line from below under eyelid to 

 bill, uniform pure plumbeous or ashy gray, with no shade of olivaceous 

 whatever, except a faint wash of Ibis color on the extreme uropygium. 

 Superciliary streak passing from nostrils over and around eye, including 

 under eyelid ; two conspicuous bands on wings ; outer margins of all 

 secondaries and most primaries ; both margins of all rectrices except median 

 pair; and entire under parts, pure white. Sides under the wings and inferior 

 wing coverts faintly washed with light sulphury olivaceous. Lores blackish 

 ash. Bill and feet bluish black; former very robust. Length 5-75 to 6-10 

 inches and hundredths : extent 9-75 to 10-25 ; wing from carpus 2-90 to 3-10 ; 

 tail 2-50 ; bill -45 ; tarsus -65 ; middle toe and claw 65 ; exposed portion of 

 spurious primary -75 ; a third the length of the second primary. 



Habitat. — High central plains to the Pacific. Laramie Peak. Especially 

 abundant in Northern Arizona. By far the commonest Vireo at Fort Whip- 

 ple ; a summer resident ; arrives April 25 ; remains through September. 



Description. — (No. 40,703, J^, May 17, 1865, Fort Whipple. Tt/2Je). The 

 bill is large and very robust, being especially deep at the base, where it is 

 compressed and much higher than broad. The ridge of the culmen is well 

 defined ; its outline very convex, the tip of the bill being much decurved, 

 strongly hooked and notched. The commissure is a little curved ; the gonys 

 slightly convex and ascending. The tarsus is about as long as the middle 

 toe and claw. The tip of the outer claw a little surpasses the base of the 

 middle one; which point the tip of the inner claw falls a little short of. 

 The hallux is considerably longer than its claw; and, with its claw, is about 

 as long as the middle toe without its claw. The wings are long, reaching, 

 when folded, a little beyond the middle of the tail. The third primary is 

 usually longest; but the fourth and fifth are so near it that often there is no 

 perceptible difference. The second is about as long as the sixth, or inter- 

 mediate between it and the fifth. The spurious primary is a third as long as 

 the second. The tail is moderately long ; the rectrices obliquely truncated 

 and a little pointed at their tips. 



The bill is deep bluish black, the posterior half of of the lower mandible 

 often light bluish horn, in marked contrast ; the feet and claws are dusky 

 leaden blue. The mouth is livid bluish white; the eyes reddish brown. 

 The back is plainly plumbeous, like the head ; and only for a brief space on 

 the rump is there a faint tinge of olivaceous ; the upper tail coverts, again, 

 being like the back. A pure white streak begins at the nostril, and runs over 

 the eye as a superciliary line ; not extending, however, beyond the eye, but 

 turning down around it at the posterior canthus, where it is continuous with 

 the very extensively white under eyelid ; this white of the under eyelid being 

 separated at the anterior canthus from the superciliary streak by the blackish 

 ashy lores. The white lower eyelid is separated from the white of the chin 

 by an extension forward of the plumbeous of the side of the neck to the 

 base of the inferior maxilla, where it merges into the dark lores. The lesser 

 wing coverts are like the back. The median and greater are more like the 

 primaries in color ; very broadly tipped and more narrowly edged with 

 pure white. The inner primaries and all the secondaries are edged with 

 white, except towards the apices of the primaries, and towards their bases, 

 where the edging is rather olivaceous than pure white. The inferior aspect 

 of the folded wing shows a white central area, caused by the coalescence of 



[March, 




t 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. <0 



the quite broad, dull white inner margins of the primaries. The rectrices 

 are very broadly edged on both their interior and exterior margins with pure 

 white ; which decreases in width on successive feathers till reduced lo a 

 minimum, or almost obsolete on the median pair. The bird is pure white 

 below, except a faint wash of very pale sulphury olivaceous on the sides and 

 flanks. The white of the breast is a little encroached on by an extension of 

 a light shade of the plumbeous of the sides of the neck. 



Variations. — Specimens taken in July and August, in very worn and faded 

 plumage, have the upper parts dull grayish brown instead of clear plurabeou?, 

 the olivaceous of the rump barely appreciable, and that of the sides very 

 faint. The white margins of the wings and tail are either entirely wanting 

 or reduced to a minimum. The markings of the sides of the head are more 

 indistinct. In this state of plumage, however, it cannot be malidentified ; 

 for it is even more unlike any other North American Vireo than when in per- 

 fect condition. Specimens vary to a mo(|erate degree in dimensions, but the 

 colors of equally mature specimens are remarkably constant. 



Remarks — The relationships of this species are decidedly with V. solitarius ; 

 sharing with that species and flavifrons, etc., the compact stout form, robust 

 and short bill, etc. The coloration of the head is very similar to that of 

 solitarius^ but the other differences are too great to render necessary any com- 

 parison between the two. Vireo plumbeus is the plainest-colored species 

 except V.vicinior^ infra, as well as one of the largest and stoutest species of 

 the United States. The name is peculiarly expressive of its most striking 

 feature. 



This is the species referred to by me in Newton's Ibis for April, 1865, page 

 164, as '' Vireo^ most like solitarius." 



117. Vireo vicinior Coues, nov. sp. 



Sp. Ch. — First primary spurious ; half as long as second ; second very 

 short, about equal to eighth or ninth ; fourth, fifth and sixth longest; third 

 but little shorter ; the wing thus being made short and much rounded. Tail 

 very long ; as long as the wings ; decidedly rounded ; rectrices with rounded, 

 not acute tips. Bill very short, but robust and deep at base. Tarsus much 

 longer than middle toe and claw ; toes all short ; the outer about equalling 

 the inner, much shorter than the middle toe without its claws. Entire upper 

 parts with sides of head and neck dull plumbeous, gradually gaining a tinge 

 of olivaceous towards rump. A narrow white ring around eye. No dis- 

 tincrly defined stripes on side of head, nor dark lores. Wing coverts, quills 

 and rectrices very slightly, if at all, bordered with white. Below entirely 

 pure white ; a hardly appreciable tinge of the slightest possible shade of 

 sulphury olivaceous on sides under wings. Bill and feet horn bluish black. 

 Length 5-70; extent 8-60; wing from carpus 2-50; tail the same : exposed 

 portion of first primary -To; of second 1-50; bill -36; tarsus -TO; middle 

 toe and claw -52 ; inner do. -35 ; outer do. '42. 



Habitat. — Yoi't Whipple, Arizona. Type and only known specimen No. 

 1507 of my collections, (40,697 Smithsonian Register,) adult male. May 24th, 

 1865. Very rare ; probably a summer resident, wintering in the Gila and 

 Lower Colorado valleys, or in Sonora. 



Description. — The bill is short, but quite stout, very deep at the base, 

 where it is compressed and higher than broad ; the culmen very regularly 

 convex in outline from the base to the moderately decurved, hooked, notched 

 tip. The wings are short and remarkably rounded, the spurious primary so 

 long as to be half the length of the second quill ; which latter equals the 

 eighth ; there is but very little difference in length between the third, fourth, 

 fifth and sixth ; the first and last named, especially the former, being a little 

 less than the other two. The tail is very long, equalling the wing from the 

 carpus, and somewhat graduated ; the lateral rectrices being -20 of an inch 

 shorter than the median pair ; and all are rounded at their extremities. The 



1866.1 




76 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



tarsus is of moderate length ; decidedly surpassing the middle toe and claw. 

 The toes arc all rather short. The tip of the outer daw just reaches the base 

 of the middle. The inner toe is remarkably abbreviated, the tip of its claw 

 falling much short of the base of the middle one. 



Above, the bird is of a dull ashy or leaden gray, Uke plumb eus, but rather 

 duller; which color on the back, and, to a less extent on the wing coverts, 

 acquires an appreciable tinge of olivaceous, most marked on the rump. 

 There is a narrow white ring entirely surrounding the eye, formed by the 

 edges of the eyelids alone. The lores are not dusky, but somewhat lighter 

 colored than the surrounding parts; and the sides of the head have no 

 definite streaks of color. The gray of these parts fades so insensibly into 

 the white of the chin and throat that it is impossible to appreciate a divid- 

 ing line ; and the same is the case with the sides of the neck and breast. 

 Under the wings, the wash of olivaceous on the sides of the body is appre- 

 ciable, but it is very faint and pale. The greater coverts are narrowly tipped, 

 and the outer margins of some of the primaries slightly edged with whitish. 

 There is nothing of the definite white seen in plumb eus, though the whitish 

 area on the inner aspect of the wing is much the same. The outer edge of 

 the exterior tail feather is narrowly white, but the others are plain dusky. 

 The iris is brown ; the mouth livid white ; the fauces pinkish ; the feet and 

 bill dark bluish horn. 



This is a most peculiar Vireo, totally diverse from all others of North 

 America. The shape of the wing, character of spurious primary, length of 

 tail and abbreviation of the inner lateral toe, give it an unusual shape. It will 

 be noticed that the colors of the species are almost exactly those of 

 plumbeus; but that in form the two birds are widely diverse. It is a smaller 

 species than plumbeus, but its greatly elongated tail make the total lengths 

 of the two nearly the same. The following antithetical diagnoses will 

 readily separate them : — 



V. plumbeus. — Wing (average) 300 ; tail 2-50. Spurious primary -75 ; a 

 third the length of the second primary ; the latter intermediate between 

 fifth and sixth. Tail about even ; rectrices with obliquely truncated tips. 

 Tarsus as long as middle toe and claw (-65). Tip of inner claw almost 

 reaching to base of middle one. Wing coverts, quills and tail feathers 

 broadly edged with pure white. Sides of head parti-colored, with distinctly 

 defined stripes. Lores dusky, interrupting the broad white circumocular 

 ring at anterior canthus. 



V. vicinior. — Wing 2-50; tail fully as long. Spurious primary -75 ; half 

 the length of the second primary, which latter is intermediate between eighth 

 and ninth. Tail decidedly graduated, the feathers with broadly rounded 

 apices. Tarsus longer than middle toe and claw, (as -70 to -52). Tip of 

 inner claw falling much short of base of middle one. Wing coverts, quills 

 and tail feathers very narrowly, jf at all, edged with dull white. Sides of 

 head unicolor, unstreaked; the lores plain grayish white, not interrupting 

 the continuity of the very narrow circumocular ring. 



It is unnecessary to compare vicinior with any other species, it is so very 

 dissimilar from them all. With but a single specimen, I cannot now give its 

 variations, though these are doubtless parallel with those of plumbeus. The 

 species must, I think, be exceedingly rare, or I should have met with others. 



(118.) Vireo pusillcs Coues, nor. sp. 



Sp. Ch. — Among the smallest of the genus, in form and general aspect re- 

 sembling V. Belli. Above grayish ash, becoming more or less ashy olivace- 

 ous on the back ; not more so on the rump than elsewhere. Below pure 

 white, including under wing coverts ; on the breast sometimes a faint sufl'usion 

 of the lightest possible shade of brownish gray ; sides under the wings mod- 

 erately tinged with sulphur yellow. A narrow short superciliary streak ; edges 

 of eyelids, two bands on wings and narrow margins of outer border of wings 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 77 



and tail, dull white ; on the latter tinged with olivaceous. Bill as in V. Belli. 

 Exposed portion of spurious quill about half as long as second. Fourth pri- 

 mary longest ; third and fifth about equal to each other, and but little shorter 

 than fourth ; second about equal to eighth. Tail very long, equalling the 

 wing; rectrices quite narrow, with acuminate tips. Tarsus long, much ex- 

 ceeding the short toes ; outer claw surpassing, inner about equalling the mid- 

 dle toe without its claw. Length (approximately correct only) 5-00 ; extent 

 7-25. Wing 2-15 ; tail about the same. Bill -34 ; tarsus -65 ; middle toe and 

 claw -50 ; outer do. -42 ; inner do. '39. 



Habitat — Lower and Southern California, and probably Sonora, at least as 

 far north as near Fort Whipple. Cape St. Lucas, Xanius. Fort Mojave, Cooper. 

 Fifty miles south of Fort Whipple, Coues ; breeding abundantly in the last 

 mentioned locality. Never observed at Fort Whipple. 



Description. — (No. 16,954, Smiths. Register, (J^, Cape St. Lucas.) The bill 

 is shaped exactly as in V. Belli, Audi is, similarly colored; being light horn 

 blue, the lower mandible nearly white ; the former color fading into reddish 

 brown in drying. The iris is brown, the legs and feet dull leaden blue. The 

 color of the upper parts is a plain dull ashy gray on the head ; tinged with 

 grayish olivaceous on the rest of the upper parts ; but quite unlike the olive 

 green of Belli. Below the pure white of the under parts is slightly obscured 

 by a wash of barely definable grayish brown across the breast ; and a light 

 shade of sulphury olive tinges the sides under the wings. There is no ap- 

 proach to the bright sulphur yellow which so strongly tinges the whole under 

 parts of Belli, especially the flanks and circumanal region ; and invades the 

 under wing coverts, which in pusillus remain white. The markings on the 

 sides of the head are quite identical ; and the edging of the wings and tail is 

 similar in amount and in tint. The following are the differential points in 

 the diagnoses of the two species, comparison being made with Audubon's 

 type specimen. 



V. Belli. Spurious primary two-fifths the second primary; third longest; 

 second a little longer than seventh. Wing much longer than tail. Color 

 above olive green, whole under parts except the throat strongly tinged with 

 sulphur yellow. 



V. pusillus. Spurious primary half as long as the second ; fourth longest ; 

 second equal to eighth. Wings and tail equal in length. Color above grayish 

 olive. No sulphur yellow below except a slight wash along the sides under 

 the wings. 



TROGLODYTIDjE. 



(119.) Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus (Lafr.) Gray. 



Valleys of the Gila and lower Colorado. Common in the southern and 

 western portion of the Territory. Not observed at Whipple. "Exclusively 

 a cactus Wren ; " (Cooper.) 



It is quite possible that Campr/lorhj/hchusaffinisXsinixxs^fTom Cape St. Lucas, 

 may be found in the vicinity of Fort Yuma. 



120. Salpinctes obsoletus (Say) Cab. 



Common at Whipple, though less so there than in the more southern and 

 western portions of the Territory. Almost exclusively confined to rocky hill- 

 sides, canons and precipitous gorges or ravines. Restless, shy and noisy ; 

 the note being a very loud and strong whistle. Arrives in spring about 

 April 25 ; remains until October. The moult is severe, lasting through part 

 of September. 



(121.) Catherpes mexicanus (Sw.) Baird. 



Not observed at Whipple ; first noticed a few miles southward from that 

 locality ; generally distributed over the southern and western portions of the 

 Territory, as high up the Colorado at least as Fort M<yave ; nowhere very 



1866] 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



abundant. Hocky precipitous localities, cnHons, etc. This species has a 

 laughing whistle, unsurpassed lor oddity as well as for power. 



122. Thryotiiokcs Bkwickii (And.) Bonap. 



7Vofflodi/(es lir.wickii, Audubon, Orn. Biog. i. 1831, pi. xviii. p. 96. 

 Thryotiionis Bewickii, Bonap. List. 1838. Baird, B. N. A. 1858, p. 363. 

 Troglodytea leucogaster, Gould, P. Z. S. 1836, 89. (Tamaulipas.) 

 Thryothoriis {T/iryomanen) liewickii, yar. Icucogaster, Baird, Rev. Amer. 

 Birds, 1864, pp. 122, 126, 127. 

 The most abundant and characteristic Wren of Whipple, resident all the 

 year, and found in all situations. 



The numerous specimens collected are of the var, leucogaster, as defined by 

 Baird, 1. c. supr^. Variety spilurus, Vigors, appears to be a coast type. 



I have never seen the Thryothorus Berlandieri from Arizona; but think it 

 probably will be hereafter detected, particularly near the New Mexican boun- 

 dary of the Territory, in the southern portions of its extent. The types of the 

 species are described from New Leon, Mexico. 



123. Troglodytes Parkmanni Audubon. 



" Troglodytes arnericanus Aud. " I Heer., P. R. R. Survey, x. pt. iv. p. 41. 

 Troglodytes sedon^ Idem, op. et loc. cit. 



Very abundant; summer resident. Arrives April 20; remains until Oc- 

 tober. 



Dr. Cooper informs me that so far as he knows this species never recurves 

 the tail over the back, a habit so characteristic of eedon. I have myself 

 noticed hundreds of individuals, and do not now recall an instance where 

 this peculiar attitude was assumed. Parhmanni has always seemed to me to 

 be a shyer, less familiar, more retiring and wood-loving species than its east- 

 ern representative ; and though the measure of the song is the same, yet in 

 tone and volume I have often thought it sounded a little different from the 

 familiar trill of sedon. If some of these points of habit could be substantiated, 

 they would go far towards eking out the lather slim diagnosis upon which 

 the species now grounds its claim to recognition. 



Dr. Heermann very wrongly says that " T. arnericanus Aud." is " abundant 

 in the wooded portions of the country." We might suppose he had mistaken 

 Parkmanni for this species, did he not also give T. sedon as being abundant 

 too. 



Troglodytes (Anorthura) hyemalis Vieill., a bird of the eastern province, has 

 been recorded from Fort Tejon, Gala., (Baird B. N. A. p. 923,) and may pro- 

 bably be found in Arizona. 



124. CiSTOTHOKUS PALUSTRis (Wils.) Baird. 



Cistothorus ( Telmatodytes) palusiris var. paludicola, Baird, Rev. Amer. 

 Birds, 1864, p. 148. 

 Very abundant in a small swampy tract near Fort Whipple; and elsewhere 

 observed in similar situations. Summer resident. Arriving early in April, 

 and remaining until November. "Winters in the Colorado Valley, as high 

 as Fort Mojave." (^Cooper.) My specimens are referrible to Baird's var, 

 paludicola. 



CERTHIID^. 



125. SiTTA ACULEATA Cassin. 



Very common, permanent resident. Chiefly pinicoline about Fort Whipple. 

 I have never seen a specimen out of an immense series which was not readily 

 distinguishable from carolinensis. 



126. SiTTA PYGMiBA Vigors. 



The most abundant and typical Nuthatch of all the pine regions of Ari- 

 zona and New Mexico. Resident. Young appear in June. Semi-gregariou» 

 at all seasons. Seems to be exclusively pinicoline. Iris black. Bill bluish 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 79 



black; hard parts of raoutb livid blue, soft parts flesh colored. The color of 

 the under parts varies greatly from a very pale fulvous, almost white, to a de- 

 cided ferruginous, almost like canadensis. Sometimes the under parts are 

 smoky brown, as in Picus Harrisii from California and Oregon. 



(129.) SiTTA CANADENSIS Linnaeus. 



Rare; perhaps only accidental. (Fort Yuma, Ives.) Not met with by me. 

 Dr. Cooper never saw it at Fort Mojave. 



128. Certhia AMERICANA Bouap. 



It is a little" singular that I never saw a specimen of this species in Arizona, 

 though it is generally distributed over the Territory. Dr. Kennerly procured 

 it very near the present site of Fort Whipple. 



PARIDjE. 



129. LoPHOPHANES IN0RNATU3 (Gamb.) Cass. 



Winter resident chiefly ; but some doubtless remain through the year, 

 breeding in the neighboring mountains. Not very abundant. Emphatically 

 an evergreen oak species, eschewing the pines, and frequenting open hill- 

 sides. 



Iris black. Bill black ; horn blue along its commissural edges and at base. 

 Feet deep leaden blue. 



130. LoPHOPHANES WOLLWEBERI Bouap. 



Permanent resident; common, more so at least than the preceding. Usually 

 semi-gregarious except when breeding. Found in all situations; but 

 chiefly affect the oak thickets, and the chaparral of open hillsides. Generally 

 distributed through the Territory, and extending southward into Sonora. 



131. PcECiLE MONTANUS (Gamb.) 



Resident throughout the Territory, more particularly its pine tracts. No- 

 where very numerous. The only species of black- capped and throated Tit- 

 mouse ascertained by me to inhabit the Territory. 



The American black-capped Titmice seem to me generically distinct from 

 Linnaeus' type of Parus ; while they are entirely congeneric with P. palustris 

 of Europe, Kaup's type of Poecile. 



P. septentrionalis is recorded from the Southern Rocky Mountains, and may 

 hereafter be added to the Whipple list. (Fort Massachusetts, Dr. Peters, 

 U. S. A.) 

 (132 ) AuRiPARUs PLAViCEPS (Sund.) Baird. 



" Abundant in the Colorado Valley, where it is a permanent resident," 

 (Cooper.) I do not think it leaves the valley for the mountainous portions of 

 the Territory. 



133. PsALTRiPARUS PLUMBEUS Baird. 



Resident and very abundant at all seasons. Decidedly gregarious, and, ex- 

 cept when mated, always found in '' flocks " of from five or six to as many 

 as fifty or more; active, restless and noisy, familiar and unsuspicious. Es- 

 chews pines, and keeps entirely in the thick shrubbery of the hillsides, or the 

 denser brush of creek bottoms and ravines. 



No. 752 and others; iris bright yellow. No. 753 and others; iris dark 

 brown. This difference seems entirely accidental, and not dependent upon 

 age, sex or season. 



The original types of the species described as Psaltria plumhea, by Prof. 

 Baird, are from the Colorado (Jhiquito River. 



ALAUDIDJE. 



134. Eremophila corndta (Wils.) Boie. 



Common ; permanent resident in all situations adapted to its wants. 



1866.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



FRINOILLIDJE. 



135. IlKsi'KurnoNA VKSi'KiiTiNA (Coopcr) Bonap. 



Chiefly a more northern and coast species ; but extending as far south as 

 the table lands of Mexico. It is undoubtedly a component of the Whipple 

 Fauna, though I never succeeded in detecting it in that locality. 



136. Carpodacus Cassini Baird. 



Common ; resident. A species conspicuously different from purpureus in 

 habits as well as in form and color. Its range of habitat is quite diverse ; 

 and I have seen specimens taken during the breeding season, from the Table 

 Lands of Mexico. "Extends west to the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada." 

 {Cooper.) 



The difference in the tint of the red of the males, and its distribution on 

 the under parts would alone readily distinguish it; independently of its 

 larger size, large long bill, different proportions of primaries, etc., which lat- 

 ter features will always serve to separate females and immature birds. 



My specimens range from 6-4 x 10"9 to 6-7 X 11*4. Iris brown ; legs and 

 feet brownish black ; bill above deep horn blue, below flesh color more or 

 less obscured by dusky. Very young birds of either sex have an ochraceous 

 or light rufous suffusion over the whole body, most noticeable below. The 

 streaks are more numerous and less sharply defined. 



137. Carpodacus frontalis (Say) Gray. 



Fringilla frontalis, Say. Fyrr hula frontalis, Bon. Erythrospiza frontalis^ 



Aud. Carpodacus frontalis, Gray. Baird, B. N. A. 1858, p. 415. 

 Carpodacus familiaris, McCall, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1852, p. 61. 

 Carpodacus obscurus, McCall, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1851, p. 220. 

 Carpodacus '^ californicus '\' Coues, Newton's Ibis., Apr., 1865, p. 164, 

 (errore pessimo.) 

 Very abundant. Permanent resident, but most abundant in spring and fall. 

 Eminently gregarious. Found in all situations. In spring keep mostly among 

 thickets of Saliz and Populus, on the young buds of which they chiefly feed. 



The shade of red in equally adult males differs most remarkably. Immature 

 males, in the late fall and winter months, show every possible gradation, from 

 a plumage indistinguishable from that of the female to that of high spring 

 condition ; in which, also, the color of the throat, breast, crown and rump 

 ranges from an intense crimson to a light rose red, almost pink ; sometimes a 

 bronzy tint is quite apparent. Young birds just from the nest differ in being 

 much more thickly streaked below, the streaks themselves narrow and quite 

 sharply defined, contrary to the general rule among young Fringillidx. The 

 wing coverts, secondaries and tail feathers are broadly edged with dull rufous. 

 The crown and back are obsoletely streaked. The preceding relates to June 

 and July birds. A common autumnal condition is to have the whole body, 

 but particularly the under parts, washed with light rufous or ochraceous, in 

 which the broad streaks are numerous and semiconfluent. 



I have shot '' Buriones " all the way from the Rio Grande, through New 

 Mexico, Arizona aud California to the Pacific coast, and cannot discover the 

 slightest indication of another species tending \09iAvdi purpureus or californicus. 

 The latter species seems to be exclusively a coast bird.^ At the same time 

 frontalis is exceedingly different from the C. hxmorrhous of Mexico. 



138. Chrysomitris (Pseudomitris) psaltria (Say) Bonap. 



Fringilla psaltria, Say, Long's Exp. Rocky Mts. ii. 1828, p. 40. 

 Fringilla {Car duelis) psaltria, Bonap. Am. Orn. i. 1825,54, pi. 6, fig. 3. 

 Carduelis psaltria, Audubon's works. 



Chrysomitris psaltria, Bonaparte, Comp. list, 1838. Baird, B. N. A. 1858, 

 p. 422. 



*Byan unfortunate oversight, I gave "cai?/ornicMs" as the Arizona species in Newton's Ibis, 

 as above, instead of frontalis, an error it is quite important to correct. 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 81 



Chrysomitris {Pseudomitris*) psaltria, Cassin, Pr. A. N. S., Philadelphia, 

 1865, p. 93. 



Abundant. Summer resident. Arrives last of April, remains until middle 

 of September. Males are in dull plumage of females in August. Decidedly 

 jrregarious in autumn. Feed almost exclusively on buds and seeds. Probably 

 less numerous in the southern portions of the Territory. 



In typical adult males the pileum is black, but this color does not extend below 

 the eyes; the lores and auriculars being olive like the back. Upper parts, ex- 

 clusive of the wings, clear olivaceous, somewhat more yellowish, and with con- 

 cealed white on the rump. The back may be somewhat marked with blackish 

 sp )ts, though rarely to the extent represented in Audubon's plate. The wings 

 are black, though some of the lesser and median coverts are tipped with olive. 

 The greater coverts are so broadly tipped with white as to form a conspicuous 

 transalar fascia, and the secondaries and inner primaries are still more broadly 

 edged on their outer margins with white. The tail is black, the three outer rectri- 

 ces white on their inner webs to within a short distance from their tips, the 

 shafts white along the white portions of the feather. A white spot at the base 

 of the primaries (except on the first two or three,) is partially concealed by the 

 bastard quills. Below, with the feathers on the side of the lower mandible, 

 yellow. 



The female has no black pileum, the crown being eoncolor with the back. 

 The yellow of the under parts is less pure and bright. The edgings of the 

 wings and coverts are grayish and narrow. The while on the inner webs of the 

 lateral rectrices is only indicated by a small, irregular, dull gray spot. The 

 spot at the base of the primaries is small and inconspicuous. 



Young birds in August are above very dull and rather ochraoeoua olive, not 

 conspicuously diflferent from the under parts. The edgings of the wings are 

 tinged with ochraceous. The basal primary spot is very small. There is no 

 indication of white on the rectrices. 



Old males changing plumage during both the vernal and autumnal moult, 

 have the olive of the back dull and obscured by dusky ; the pileum somewhat 

 variegated with olive. The wings and coverts have scarcely a trace of white 

 edging. The under parts are quite brightly yellow. 



Why I have thus gone into detail in characterizing this species will be evi- 

 dent from the succeeding article. I wish it to be noted that the diagnostic 

 points of psaltria, as compared with mexicana, lie in the black pileum definitely 

 bounded on all sides with olive, not descending on the sides of the head below 

 the eye ; and in the decided olive of the upper parts. The bill is conical and 

 quite stout ; the gonys straight ; the culmen a little convex. The species ex- 

 tends over the western portion of the continent to the Pacific, and nearly, or 

 quite, to the Sonoran border. 



(139.) Chrysomitris Pseudomitris mexicanus (Swains.) Bonap. 

 [A. Var. mexicanus Swains.] 

 Carduelis mexicanus, Swainson, Syn. Mex. Birds, in Phil. Mag. i. 1837, p. 



435. (Table Lands of Mexico. Real del Monte. Temiscaltrpec.) 



Wagler, Isis von Oken, 1831, p. 525, 

 Chrysomitris mexicanus, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. i. 1850, p. 516. Baird, 



Birds N. A., 1858, p. 423. 

 Chrysomitris (^Pseudomitris) mexicana, Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1865, p. 93, 

 Astragalinus mexicanus, Cab. Mus. Hein., 1851, p. 159. 

 Fringillu melanoxantha, " Licht. Mus. Berol." (Quoted by Wagler, Isis, 



1831, p. 525, as a syn. of G. mexicana Sw.) 

 Fringilla texensis, Giraud, Sixteen Sp. Tex. Bds. 1841, pi. v. fig. 1. G's 



type examined by me. Belly not white as stated. 



* Pseudomitris, Cass., nov. subg. ut supra. Type Frin. psaltria, Say. Considered as probably 

 belonging to subfamily Oyanospizinse of Sclater. 



1866.J 6 




82 • * PROOEEDINOS OI" THE ACADEMY O? 



fFrinffilla catotol, GmelJn. 9. N. i. 1786, 914. 



fChrysomitris niina^ Up. 0. A. 1850, i. p. 516, fide Baird. 



?" Cocozton, Hernand. Thes. p. 52. Cap. 192." (Quoted by Wagler, 1. c.) 



[B. Var. columhianus Lafres.] 

 Chrysomitria columbianuSj Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool. 1843, p. 292. (Central 



America.) Baird, Birds N. Am. 1858, p. 423. 

 Astragalimis columhianus, Cabanis, Mus. Hein. 1851, p. 159. 

 Chrysomitris {I'seudomilris) columbianus, Ca8S., Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1865, p. 93. 

 Chrysomitria zanihogastra, Dubns, Bull. Acad. Belg. xxii. i. 1855, p. 150. 



[C. Var. arizonse Coues.] 

 Chryaomitris {Paeudomitris) mexicanua Var. arizonce, Coues, MSS. 



S>/7io7u/my. Swainson's description* is very brief, unsatisfactory, and inac- 

 curate. Although the tail is not two inches long, (varying from 1-50 to 1-75,) 

 nor has its three lateral tail feathers (wholly) white, yet the diagnosis may be 

 accepted as indicative of the bird now well known from all portions of Mexico 

 as Chrysomitria mexicanua. Wagler's fuller description is quite pertinent. Upon 

 the latter author's authority, I quote Fringilla melanoxantha of Lichtenstein. 

 It is probable that Bonaparte's Chrysomitria nana belongs here. I have exam- 

 ined iVIr. Giraud's type of Fringilla texenaia. It has not a white belly as stated, 

 but is absolutely identical with typical Mexican examples. 



The synonyms adduced under var. columbianus do not seem to require com- 

 ment. 



Description. (Ad. J*, spring, S. I. No. 4078, Parras, Mex.) Bill a little 

 elongated, subconical, culmen slightly convex, gonys a little concave ; bluish 

 lead color. (Sometimes yellowish at base of upper mandible.) Black of up- 

 per parts quite pure and unmixed with olive, except on the rump, where a 

 little olive and more white may be seen on parting th« leathers. The black 

 extends on the lores, auriculars, sides of the neck, and to a less extent on sides 

 of breast ; on the cheeks, between eye and lower mandible, somewhat mixed 

 with yellow. The under eyelid is yellow j separated from the yellow of the throat 

 by some black. The basal white spot on the primaries, (exclusive of the two 

 first,) and the white margins of the outer edges of the secondaries are well de- 

 fined, but the white tips of the median coverts, which form so conspicuous a 

 bar in psaltria^ are much narrower. The three exterior tail feathers are almost 

 wholly white on their inner webs to within from a fourth to a third of an inch 

 of their tips. Below the bird is wholly yellow. 



Numerous Mexican specimens hardly differ from the above, except in the 

 amount of white edging of the wings and coverts. This is so extremely vfv- 

 riable, that it cannot be a character of tbe slightest consequence. One (No. 

 4077, New Leon, Mex.) has some little olive mixed with the black of the back. 



Another series of skins, five in number, from Panama, Co?ta Rica, etc., with- 

 out exception differ from the Mexican type as follows : — The black on the side 

 of the head descends much lower, in fact to the. angle of the mouth, com- 

 pletely occupying the cheeks and auriculars, and the under eyelid shows no 

 trace of yellow. The under parts are of a much brighter yellow, rathtr 

 orange than lemon. Moreover, they average less white upon the wings and 

 tail. In some the white spaces only occupy two rectrices instead of three, only 

 extend to within half an inch of the tip, and are, in fact, rather small irregu- 

 lar blotches, than well defined large spaces. 



A third series, also from Central America, presents precisely the features last 

 detailed, but the white on the tail feathers is either entirely wanting, as in No. 

 1818, or reduced to a minimum as in No. 39791. This form constitutes La- 

 fresnaye's G. columbianus. 



♦"Glossy bliick, beneath yellow, base of quills and lateral tail feathers white. Total length 

 4U bill 3-10; wings 2i; tail 2; tarsi i." 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Still a fourth series is recogniKable in the collections before me, embracing 

 examples from New Mexico and Arizona ; collected by myself near Fort Win- 

 gate, in New Mexico, and by J, H. Clarke on the Gila River, These exhibit a 

 remarkable gradation towards the peculiar features of psaltria. The black of 

 the back is mixed with about an equal amount of olive, the proportions of the 

 two colors varying from e. g. No. 37088, where there is only a trace of olive, 

 to e, g. Nos. 37001 — 2, where there is decidedly more oiive than black, so 

 much indeed that this color /orms quite a contrast with the biack pileum. The 

 auriculars are black as in mezkanus^ but the yellow lower eyelid, like that of 

 psaliria, is not disconnected with the yellow of the throat. All three of these 

 birds I shot out of the same flock at the same time, (June 28, 1864.) The Gila 

 birds agree exactly with the most olivaceous of these just described. A spe- 

 (cimen No. 39094, (^, Aug. 18, Fort Whipple,) of supposed jt>«<s!Z^r?a with a pure 

 olive back, has the auriculars black. 



From the above detailed features of large series of skins, representing lo- 

 calities all the way from Panama, to Northern AiiKona, it will be evident that 

 the typical style of mexkanus from the table lands merges, by insensible degrees, 

 through Costa Rican examples into an extreme* of form which has been desig- 

 nated as C. <olumhianus . In like manner, just north of Mexico where the con- 

 fines of the species inosculate with those of psaltria, we have a race or form 

 showing decided gradations towards the characters of the la«t named species. 

 Biit stiil the iy pic a\ psaltria is so very diverse from mezkamts proper, and the- 

 doubtful specimens incline so very decidedly towards the latter, that, in the- 

 impossibility of uniting jesa^^na with mezkanus, we must consider them as " va- 

 rieties " of the latter, unless, indeed, they be hybrids between the two.* 



Upon the whole, then, it may be best to refer all the black-backed examjxles- 

 to one species, — mezkanus, — recognizing three " varieties," — columbianus, mex-- 

 icanus and arizonse^ — as at least a convenient mode of indicating the differences, . 

 whatever be their value, which actually do exist. 



Regarding the females of the two species and of the varieties, I confess my 

 inability to distinguish them with any degree of certainty, except by the lo- 

 calities whence they come, since all are quite similarly colored, and thtre are 

 no very tangible differences of form. 



140. Chrysomitris Lawrencei (Cassin ) Bonap. 



Abundant; probably resident. My numerous examples of this species, so 

 widely dissimilar from any other, were all taken at Fort Whipple in winter. 

 Although I never noticed it at any other season, I have little doubt that it is a 

 permanent resident, breeding in the mountains of Northern Arizona. 1 have 

 seen summer examples from Fort Tejon, Cal. The differences between winter 

 and spring or summer specimens, consists in little else than the replacing of 

 the yellow dorsal spot by olive gray, either pure or a little mixed with yellowish. 

 The yellow of the other parts is as bright as in spring, and the black frontlet 

 remains intact. Females want entirely the black on the head, which is all 

 around plain olive gray, while the pectoral spot and other yellow parts are dull 

 in tint, and restricted in extent, or even, as may be the case sometimes with 

 the dorsal .»pot, entirely wanting. The iris of both sexesJs dark biovvn. Iq 

 summer the bill and l^^gs are fle-h colored, more or. less obscured bv 

 dusky; in winter the bill is horn blue, and the legs, feet and claws blackish 

 brown. 



The species has been hitherto considered as chiefly a California, Coast bird. 



141. Chrysomitris finds (Wils.) Bp. 



A generally distributed species, undoubtedly to be hereafter added to the 

 Whipple^ list. Fort Thorn, N. M., Dr. T. C. Henry, U. S. A. 



* '• How convenient it would be if we could, with dignified imperturbability, accept a broad theca-j 

 *)€ hj briilizatioa as the correct solutiua of these coustaatly recurring atd vexatious problems !" 



1866.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



142. CORVIROSTFIA AMRRIOANA Wllson. 



If, ns is probably the case, Iho Loxia mexicana of Strickland is rightly to be 

 referred to C. anuricami, then this ppecies, being found breeding upon the Table 

 Lauds of Mexico, and so peneral'y distributed throughout North America, must 

 be added to the Arizona list. It is doubtless to be found at times at Fort Whipple. 



Chrymmilris (ristis, Acffiolhus linarius^ and, perhaps, Curvirosira leucoptera and 

 Pmicola canachnsis, tliough not to my knowledge hitherto detected in Arizdna, 

 will most probably be discovered in winter towar48 the northern boundary of 

 the Territory. 



143. Plectrophanes mrlanomus Baird. 



Resident? Rare. A &in}2le specimeu taken Oct. 17, 1864, on open, grassy 

 plains, is r(ferrible to this species. 



Some interesting peiuliantit s of the r^nge of habitat of this species assist 

 the characters presented by the bird in separating it from P. ornatus. It is 

 known to breed on the Table Lands of Mexico. 



(144.) Plectrophanes Maccownii Lawrence. 



Extends from the vast arid plains of New Mexico info those of Southern 

 Arizona. {Dr. Jleermann.) 



145. Calamospiza bicolob (Towns.) Bon. 



" Abundant tear the Pima Villages, A. T.," Dr. A. L. Heermann. This 

 gentleman al^o SHys that he found it in the Mesilla Valley near l-'oit Fillmore. 

 In crossing the Great Plains I found it abundant as far as tlie Raton Moiin- 

 tnins, westward of which i have never seen it. In the north its westward 

 range seems limited, but it extends along the Mexican border, and across the 

 Southern Rocky Mountains and Valley uf the Lower Colorado, and is found 

 also at Cape St. Lucas. It is not recorded from the coast region of Upper 

 California. 



146. Chondestes grammacus (Say.) Bon. 



Chiefly, spring and autumn niigrant, being very numerous at those seasons. 

 Many breed, and a few remain all winter. Extends southward to Mexico. 

 '• Not detected in the Colorado Valley even in winter." [Cooper.) 



147. Fassercolus alaudinus Bonap. 



Abundant. Summer resident. My numerous specimens are referrible to 

 this supposed species, differing in some slight degree from the average of east- 

 ern birds in the grayish rather than decidedly yellow superciliary streak, and 

 the general paleness of the colors. The bill is perhaps a little slenderer and 

 more elongated. The differences which separate it from savanna appear to me 

 no greater than are to be found when large series of the latter are compared 

 with each other. 



For some additional data upon the relationships of the North American Pas' 

 gerculi, see the London Ibis for 1866. 



148. PooECETES GRAMiNECS (Gm.) Baird. 



Very abundant. Summer resident. Winters in the Colorado Valley. Arrives 

 last week in March. Remains till November. I can detect no diflferences be- 

 tween eastern and western birds. 



149. CoTUBNicuLus PASSERiNus (Wils.) Bon. 



Rare. Not observed at Whipple. Bill Williams' River, Keymerly. 



150. ZoNOTRiCHiA Gambeli (Nutt.) Gambel. 



Abundant. Re:^ident. First noticed Sept. 15, and at once becoming ex- 

 cf edingly numerous, they continued so until January ; after which only a few 

 stragglers were seen until the latter part of April, when they again became 

 common. By far the greater part go further north to breed. In general hab- 

 its this species seems to resemble aibicollis rather than the more closely allied 

 ileucophys. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



Iris bright brown. Bill bright lemon yellow, dusky reddish at tip. Feet 

 brown with a yellowish tinge ; soles pure yellow. 



Z. leucophrys is given by Dr. Kennerly as found on Bill Williams' River. It 

 is well known that occasional specimens are taken in the range of habitat 

 which belongs especially to Gambeli. 



151. JuNCO HYEMALis (L.) Sclater. 



Rare and accidental. During the winter of 1864-65, I shot three typical ex- 

 amples of this spec*es ; in each instance in company with both the succeeding 

 birds. 



152. JuNCO OREGONUS (Towns.) Sclater. 



Exceedingly abundant winter resident. Arrive at Fort Whipple about Oct. 

 10 ; soon become very numerous and continue so until the second week in 

 April; stragglers seen till May ^ Keep quietly hidden in out of the way 

 places till cold weather has fairly set in, when they become very familiar, and 

 are to be seen everywhere. 



Both sexes, and at all ages and seasons after the first autumnal moult, are 

 never without the reddish along the sides of the body; and the head is never 

 entirely concolor with back. 



Perfectly adult males have the head, neck all around, and breast pure black, 

 nearly as trenchantly defined against the reddish of the back as against the 

 white of the belly. The sides are strongly tinged with pinkish rufous. The 

 dull chestnut or reddish brown of the back extends on the scapulars and outer 

 edges of the secondaries and greater coverts. This color merges insensibly 

 into olive gray on the rump. The two outer tail fea'hers on each side are 

 pure white ; the third is white with an edging of dusky along i's inner web to 

 near the tip. The bill is flesh colored, or delicate pinkish white; its apex 

 dusky. The tarsi are dusky flesh color, the feet more obscure. 



The young female, early in winter, has the back more dully colored, while 

 the rufous tinge invades the nape and to some extent the crown ; and the edg- 

 ings of the wings and coverts are very light, being gray rather than rufous. 

 The black of the head and breast has a slaty tinge ; and is sprinkled with light 

 grayish or rufous, which interrupts the deeper color, though never to the ex- 

 tent of making the parts concolor with the back. The wash along the sides is, 

 fainter and duller. There is usually less white in the sides of the tail. 



Between these two extremes is to be found every possible gradation. The 

 great majority of all males have the continuity of the black on the nape inter- 

 rupted by rufous tips to some of the feathers. A specimen (1138 of my collec- 

 tion, Dec. 12, 1864,) has a large abruptly defined pure white spot, of an irregu- 

 lar shape, on the chin. This is a curious example of partial albinism. 



153. JuNCO CANiCBPS (Woodh.) Baird. 



Strulhus caniceps, Woodhouse, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. vi. Dec. 1852 p. 202. Id. 

 Sitgreave's Rep. Expl. Zuiii and Col. Rivers, 1853, p. 83, pi. iii. 



Junco caniceps, Baird, B. N. A. 1858, p. 468. 



Junco dorsalia, Henry, Proc. Acad. Philada. ; Baird, B. N. A. 

 Numerous examples in my collection, agreeing with Woodhouse's types 

 from the San Francisco Mountains. A not very abundant winter resident at 

 Fort Whipple ; times of arrival and departure, and general habits those of 

 oregonus, with which it associates freely. 



The red of the back is a subtriangular patch of a bright ferrugineous tint 

 quite different from the chestnut of oregonus; its extent is smaller, and it is less 

 distinctly defined against the gray both of the nape and rump ; and does not at 

 any age or season invade the wing coverts. The outer edges of the secondaries 

 are grayish brown, even in full plumaged birds; but the wing coverts are 

 purely cinereous gray like the rest of the body. The gray extends along the 



• In this there is aa absolute parallelism with J. hyemalis, as observed at Washington, D. C, 



1866.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Bidos of the brenst and belly ; but it i8 much lighter in tint than on the upper 

 parts; and has no very distinct line of demarcation with the white of the ab- 

 domen ; which latter varies greatly in purity and extent. There is never any 

 trace of reddish or pinkish on the sides ; these parts being concolor with the 

 throat and breast, as in hj/emalis. The space between the eye and bill, and to a 

 less extent the itumediate circumocular feathers are blackish. The third lateral 

 tail feather has a greater amount of dusky than of white. Females are like 

 the males, except that the cinereous gray below is paler, ^he white kbdomi- 

 nal region larger, and the union of these two colors more gradual. 



I have thus gone somewhat into detail regarding the characters of oregonus 

 and cauieepSy because in my collection are several examples which I regard as 

 most undoubtedly hybrids between the two. Their general asi>ect is that of 

 caniceps ; the head, neck and throat being slate gray, not black ; the lores de- 

 cidedly blackish, etc. There is a large dorsal area, colored as i» orego- 

 nusj and, most marked feature of all, the sides are strongly tinged with pink- 

 ish fulvous, exactly as in oregomis, instead of being plain cinereous gray, con- 

 color with the throat, as in eafneeps. Other specimens preponderate still more 

 towards oregonus, in having the head and neck rather slate black than slate 

 gray. 



The specimens are SHch palpable hybrids, that they need not in the least in- 

 validate the j-pecific distinctions between the Hvo species. In the ease of Co- 

 laptes auralus and mexieamts, it has been proven incontrovertibly that such a 

 thing is entirely possible between closely allied though quite distinct species. 



I have examined the type of Dr. Henry's Juneo dorsaliSy from Fort Thorn, 

 now in the Philadelphia Academy ; and I cannot discern wherein it differs 

 from canieeps Woodh. This latter species however seems quite distinct from the 

 Mexican cinereuSy in the restriction of the chestnut to a well defined dorsal 

 area, instead of its extending over most of the wing coveyts and tertials ;: and 

 in the wholly white outer tail feathers, whereas in einereus a portion of their 

 bases, especially on the inner web, are dusky. The range of habitat of the 

 two species is also diverse. 



154. PoosPiZA BiLiNBATA (Cass.) Sclater. 



Rare at Whipple, where the nature of the locality is not suited to it. Very 

 abundant in the southern and western portions of the Territory. Open plains, 

 grassy or covered with sage brush. 



In adult birds the black of the upper border of the superciliary streak ex- 

 tends across the forehead. Sometimes old birds have a decided ferrugineous 

 lint in the gray of the upper parts- bat are never streaked. The moult con- 

 tinues until October. 



The young bird differs materially from the adult. There is no black about 

 the bead or throat, and the white streaks are nearly obsolete. The superciliary 

 streak is short and indistinct; ana is not bordered above by black. The lores 

 are simply dusky and not pure black. The throat is pure white ; and has a 

 row of small spots on each side forming an imperfect maxillary streak, dividing 

 the white of the throat from thai of the side of the lower jaw. The upper parts 

 a»e strongly tinged with dull ferrugiaeous ; and are obsoletely streaked in the 

 middle of the back with black. The wing coverts and tertials are strongly 

 edged with ferrugineous. The breast is white streaked thickly with dusky. The 

 tail is black as in the adult, and the outer feather is white on its external web ; 

 but the n'Xt three rectrices are not tipped with white. The lower mandible 

 and the feet are dusky flesh color; instead of both being, as in the adult, bluish 

 blark. 



355. PoospizA Belli (Cass.) Selater. 



Rather uncommon about Fort Whipple, for the same reason as mentioned 

 nnder head of F. bilineata. Abundant in the sage brush of the Gila Valley. 

 Keeps much on the ground, where its motions are very like those of a Pipilo. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 8t 



(156.) Spizella monticola (Gm.) Baird. 



Rare and perhaps accidental. Colorado Chiquito River, Kennerly. 



157. Spizella socialis (Wils.) Bonap. 



Very abundant summer resident. Arrives third week in March ; remains 

 until latter part of November; a few stragglers may possibly winter. For a 

 month after its arrival it is in large flocks of fifty or more; and chiefly keeps 

 on the ground in open places, like Passerculus or Pooeeetes, In the fall, again, 

 collects in large flocks, associating with Chrysomilres and Fipilones, and with S^ 

 ctrigidaris. Mates in latter part of April. Remains in moult through greater 

 part of October. 



Numerous specimens shot in the fall presented an aspect so different from 

 the usual well-known immature style of socialis^ that I received the impres- 

 sion of a distinct species. The color of the crown was more the light ferru- 

 gineous of monticola^ than de.^p chestnut, as in socialis. A large suite of adult 

 spring birds I cannot distinguish satisfactorily from the common eastern bird. 



158. Spizella Breweri Cassin. 



Eniberiza pallida of Audubon's works. Not of Swainson, 



Spizella pallida of Kennerly's and Heermann's Reports, and of Coues, 



Ibis., April 1865, p. 164, from Arizona. 

 Spizella Breweri^ Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. viiL 1856, p. 40. Baird, Birds 

 N. A. 1858, p. 475. 

 Rare summer resident A shy and retiring species, keeping mostly in thick 

 brush near the ground. 



This species constantly presents perfectly tangible differences from pallida^ 

 independent of the seasonal changes to which both are subject. In addition 

 to the general paleness, or, so to speak, obsoleteness of all the markings of the 

 body, the great differences in the colors and stripes of the head, as detailed 

 by Cassin and Baird, readily separate thera. Breweri has no a'hy collar around 

 the back and sides of the neck, and the breast; but the small streaks of the 

 head and back are directly continuoug. All the specimens before me measure 

 rather more in length than those of pallida^ due chiefly to a greater elongation 

 of the tail. Other measurements do not exceed those of pallida. 



Some July specimens, in moult, present a faded and dull gray appearance, 

 with no signs of oehraceou' on any part; and all the streaks are so narrow 

 as to be merely faintly pencilled lines- 



S. pallida is given by Dr. Kennerly from Bill Williams* River; and by Dr. 

 Heermann from Tucson and Pima, in southern Arizona. These citations are 

 doubtless to be referred to Breweri. Pallida is a species of the high central 

 plains and the region of the Missouri. Breweri ranges through New Mexico, 

 Arizona and California. 



159. Spizella atrigularis (Cab.) Baird. 



Spinites atrigularis, Cabanis, Mus. Hein, 1851, p. 133. 



Spizella atrigularis, Baird, B. N. A., 1858, p. 476. 



Struthus atrimentalis, Couch, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. vii. 1854, p. 67. 



Spizella evura, Coues, Newton's Ibis, January, 1865, p. 118. Ibid, 

 April, 1865, p. 104. (A young bird, without black face and throat.) 

 Rare. Summer resident. Arrives early in April, and mates shortly after- 

 wards ; remains till middle of October. In small flocks or rather companies, 

 in the fall associating with Car/jsomitris and Spizella. In the spring has a 

 sweet and melodious song, far surpassing in power and melody that of all 

 other SpizelUe. Young birds want entirely the distinctive facial markings 

 of the adults. Iris black. Bill dull red. Legs and feet brownish black. 

 Length 6-00; extent 7*60 ; tail 3-10. 



During my first autumn at Fort Whipple I shot numerous specimens of a Spi- 

 zella generally resembling S. atrigularis, but wanting entirely the black face 

 and chin. The interscapulars are of a quite different shade of chestnut. The 



1866.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



outer web of the external tail feather, and, to a less degree, the edge of the 

 inner web of the same, are quite purely white. The bill is dusky brown 

 above, dusky flesh color below, the feet black. Tlie unusual length of the 

 tail also attracted my atti^ntion. 



A fully adult male, procured April 20, has the black face and chin exactly 

 as in atrigalarU. The interscapulars are of a brighter chestnut than in the 

 fall bird. The slate gray of the head and breast is deeper and purer, and 

 more markedly contrasted with the also purer white of the middle abdominal 

 region. 



An adult female in deep moult, procured July 21, has also no trace of black 

 about the head. 



Several specimens from Cape St. Lucas, in precisely the plumage of my 

 autumnal Whipple examples, I find labelled by Baird with the MSS. name 

 *' S. candy n. s." 



It is just possible that large series may hereafter establish a species from 

 Arizona and California distinct from the Mexican, both possessing the black 

 on the face ; but at present I cannot satisfactorily distinguish two species. 

 Should they prove identical, they will afford an instance of a degree of sea- 

 sonal variation quite unusual in the species composing the genus Spizella. 



160. Melospiza fall ax Baird. 



? Fringilla melodia, Wilson, Am. Orn. ii. 1810, 125, pi. xvi. f. 4. 



Coue-", Newton's Ibis, April, 1865, p. 165. 

 Zonotrichia fallax, Baird, Pr. A. N. S., 1854, 119. 

 Melospiza fallax, Baird, Birds N. A., 1858, p. 481. 

 Common ; permanent resident. Habits, manners and voice precisely 

 those of melodia. 



The locality* whence were described the original specimens of ^' Zonotrickia 

 fallax''^ is so near Fort Whipple that, for all practical purposes, it may be 

 considered the same. Such differences as exist are detailed by Prof. Baird,, 

 ut supra, with whose expressed opinion that the species is of doubtful 

 validity I entirely coincide. 



M. fallax occurs throughout New Mexico, Arizona, and part of Southern 

 California, and is particularly abundant in the Valley of the Colorado. 

 Westward of the Colorado Desert M. Heermanni chiefly replaces it. The lat- 

 ter species is very probably to be found at Fort Mojave. 



(161.) Melospiza Lincolnii (Aud.) Baird. 



This extensively distributed species, which occurs throughout the Unite(l 

 States and Territories, and south into Central America, has been taken in the- 

 Territory by Dr. Kennerly. I have not myself met with it. 



The following Finches most probably remain to be hereafter added to the 

 list : Peuccea Cassini Baird, and Emhernagra rujivirgata Lawrence, in the 

 valley of the Gila and Southern Arizona generally ; Passerctdus sehistacem 

 Baird, on the upper Colorado. (Specimens of the latter species are recorded 

 from Fort Tejon, Cala.) 



162. Guiraca cg^rulea (Linn.) Swains. 



Generally distributed ; nowhere very common. A single specimen talien 

 near Fort Whipple, Aug. 10, 1865. "Arrives at Fort Mojave May 1st.'* 

 ( Cooper. ) 



163. Guiraca melanocephala Swains. 



Abundant. Summer resident. Arrives May 1st ; remains until latter part 

 of September. Frequents the thick brush of ravines, etc., and the cotton- 

 wood and willow copses of the creek bottoms. Its ordinary note intimately 



• "Pueblo Creek, New Mexico," is now known as " Walnut" Creek, Arizoni, antl is hardly a 

 day's march from Fort Whipple, which lies but a short distance off the trail of Lieut. Whipple*^* 

 party, in going from tke Sau Francisco mountains to th« Headwaters of Bill Williams' River. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



resembles that of Lophortyx Gamheli. Its song is superb ; a powerful but 

 melodious succession of clear rich rolling notes, reminding one somewhat of 

 the Icterus halAmore. " Net met with in the Colorado Valley." {Cooper). 



164. Cyanospiza amcena (Say,) Baird. 



Summer resident ; not abundant. More common somewhat further South. 



PIPILO Vieillot. 



The genus Pipilo of Vieillot, as now usually defined by ornithologists, 

 seems to embrace species not strictly congeneric with its type, P. erythroph- 

 thalmus. The differences lie chiefly in the shape of the wings and tail, and in 

 the relative proportions of these parts to each other, as well as in the pattern 

 of coloration. 



In the bird now generally known as Pipilo chlorurus these variations from 

 the type are most marked. The long wings almost equal the tail, which latter 

 is scarcely at all graduated. The elongated first primary gives a more 

 pointed shape to the wing. The pattern of coloration is unusual and quite 

 peculiar. The genus Kieneria was established by Bonaparte,* with the 

 Pyrgisoma Kieneri as type ; and under it this author ranges rtijipileus, fuscus, 

 Abertii, etc. But the P. Kieneri seems quite congeneric with the type of 

 Pyrgisoma ; in which event Kieneria becomes a synonym, untenable for this 

 or any other group. '* Pipilo " chlorurus being generically dissimilar from the 

 type of Embernagra {Saltator viridis Vieillot,) to which genus it has been 

 referred, very probably is wanting in a tenable generic application, unless the 

 name Cldorura f fills this vacancy. 



After thus eliminating P. chlorurus^ there still remain, in North America, 

 four species, crissalis t Vigors, mesoleucus § Baird, albigula Baird, and Abertii 

 Baird ; which agree with each other in differing from the black, white, and 

 chestnut group of which P. erythrophthalmus is the type, in the proportions of 

 wings and tail, amount of graduation of the latter, and pattern of coloration. 

 They should, I am of opinion, constitute a separate generic group, of which 

 P. Abertii may be considered the type. I believe that this genus has yet to 

 receive a distinctive name. 



165. PiPiLQ megaloynx Baird. 



Very abundant permanent resident. Rather more numerous in spring and 

 fall than at other times. Shy and retiring, inhabiting the thickest brush. Is 

 in moult through part of July, whole of August, and half of September. 

 Ordinary call-note almost exactly like that of Mimus carelinensis ; the song a 

 rather harsh and monotonous repetition of four or six syllables, something 

 like that of Easpiza americana. Females found with mature eggs in ovi- 

 ducts as early as May 5tli. 



The female of this species is not brown, conspicuously different from the 

 male, but only dull brownish black. I think this is the case also with the 

 other western Pipilos with spotted scapulars ; in which there is to be found 

 no such sexual difiierence as is seen in P. erythrophthalmus. 



In carefully examining a very large series of Pipilo from Arizona, as well 

 as from other localities, I find it difficult to discern constant and tangible dif- 

 ferences between arcticus and megalonyx. My specimens are all referrible to 

 the latter species, or variety, if it be only one. I prefer now to leave the sub- 



* Comptes Uendus. xl., Jan., 1855, p. 356. 



t Used by Sclater, Cat. Amer. Bds., p. 117, as designating a snbgeneric division, 



X Vig. Z )ol. Voy. Beeehey, v. p. 19, which equals fuscus of Cassin, Baiid and other American 

 writers, but not of Swainson. 



g Which probably is the irxx& fuscus Swains. Syn Mex. Bds. Phil. Mag. i. V21, No. 46, and Two 

 Cent., 1838, p. 347, No. 197. See Cabanis, Journ. f. Ornith., Nov., 18»52. p. 474, for critique upon 

 synonymy of / ipilones. But Cabanis' statement that P. megalonyx Baird is a synonym of P. 

 maculatus Swainson will require confirmation. 



1866.] 




.80 PROCEEDINGS OP TDE ACADEMY OP 



Jeot as Prof. Baird has determined it; especially as iu his forthcoming 

 "Review " the matter will be re-examined. 



(166.) "PiriLo" Abertii Baird. 



One of the most abundant and characteristic birds of the Valley of the 

 Gila and Colorado. Ranges northward to within a few miles of Whipple, but 

 is not found in the adjacent mountains. Common at Fort Mojave, and par- 

 ticularly so at Fort Yuma. 



(167.) "PiPiLo" ME-!0LKUcus Baird. 



Abundantly distributed throughout the warmer portions of New Mexico 

 and Arizona, from the Valley of the Rio Grande to that of the Colorade. Not 

 observed at Fort Whipple, though found breeding some twenty-five miles to 

 the southward. Associates freely with the preceding, and inhabits the same 

 regions ; and the two have very similar habits. 



This species is permanently and very distinct from crissalis, Vigors, of the 

 California Coast, or from alhigula of Cape St. Lucas ; which species it replaces 

 in the southern Rocky Mountain region. 



168. ** PiPILO " CHLORURA (TOWUS.) 



Spring and autumn migrant ; none breed or remain all winter, Pa'ses 

 rapidly by Fort Whipple ; being found only during the latter part of April 

 and beginning of May, and during the month of September. The most silent 

 and retiring of the " Pipilos " being very difficult to observe or capture. 

 "Winters sparingly at Fort Mojave," {Cooper). 



The specie:^ varies a good deal in the color of the iris ; e. g.. No. 738, iris 

 dark red ; No. 739, iris olive brown ; No. 740, iris reddish brown ; all of 

 which birds were shot at the same time. 



(169.) Pyrrhuloxia sinuata Bonap. 



This Mexican species, introduced into the United States Fauna from the 

 lower Rio Grande Valley, has been taken at Fort Yuma. It is now well 

 known as a common bird of Cape St. Lucas. 



The Cardinalis igneus, Baird, (Pr. A. N. S. Ph., Nov., 1859, p. 10,) very 

 abundant at Cape St. Lucas, may also very probably be found in the south- 

 western portions of the Territory. 



ICTERIDjE, 



170. MoLOTHRus PECORis (Gm.) Swains. 



Very abundant summer resident ; arrives middle of April and remains 

 until October. Vast numbers seen at Fort Yuma in September. Winters 

 abundantly in the Colorado Valley. 



171. Agel^eus phoeniceus (Linn.) Vieill. 



Common ; resident. Most numerous in October and November. Associates 

 constantly and intimately with the succeeding species. 



A. guhernator is given by Dr. Kennerly from Pueblo Creek, Ariz. He very 

 probably made an erroneous identification. It is doubtful if either guhernator 

 or tricolor, so abundant in California, ever cross the desert to the Colorado 

 Valley, except in isolated and accidental instances. 



172. ScoLECOPHAGus CYANOCEPHALus (Wagl.) Cab. 



Exceedingly abundant ; permanent resident. The typical Blackbird of 

 Fort Whipple. Comparatively few breed in the immediate vicinity. Towards 

 the end of September they become very numerous, and continue so until 

 May, when few are to be observed until the following fall. Congregate in 

 immense flocks about the clearings, stock corrals, etc., and are tame and 

 familiar. By no means a marsh species, but rather a piniroline one. Their 

 note is a harsh rasping or grating squeak, varied at intervals by a rather 

 melodious ringing whistle. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Male; average lO'OOx 16*50 : iris light creamy yellow. Female; average 

 9*00x15 '25 ; iris brown. Autumnal males are frequently seen in nearly 

 complete plumage. 



173. Xanthocephalus icterocephalus (Bon.) Baird. 



Rather uncommon, being less numerous than at most other localities where 

 found at all. Chiefly a summer resident. Rather a marsh and prairie spe- 

 cies, than a bird of mountainous regions. 



The variations in the tint, and in the extent or restriction of the yellow, de- 

 pendent upon age, sex or season, as well as purely accidental, are very great, and 

 almost interminable. Some immature males have the head saffron or ochra- 

 ceous, the nape clouded with black, and a distinct median longitudinal black 

 stripe along the crown. Sometimes very young males show no yellow what- 

 ever. The size is also liable to great variation ; a female before me being 

 hardly half the size of an adult male. (Wing 4*25 instead of 5 50 ; tail 3*25 

 instead of 4-10, etc.) 



174. Sturnella neglecta Audubon. 



Rare ; resident. The nature of most of the vicinity of Fort Whipple is not 

 well adiipted to the habits of this species. I never saw a half dozen individu- 

 als during my whole stay. 



175. Icterus Bullockii (Sw.) Bon. 



Common summer resident. Almost exclusively frequents the willows and 

 cottonwoods of the creek bottoms, to the small twigs of which its pensile nest 

 is attached. Arrives late in April, and remains through greater part of 

 September. 



The female is plain grayish olive (pure gray on the rump,) brightening into 

 olive yellow on the nape, upper tail coverts and tail. Forehead, superciliary 

 streak, sides of head and neck, and a large space on the breast bright yellow. 

 Space between eye and bill and the whole chin pure white. Rest of under 

 parts grayish white, tinged with yellow on the under tail coverts. Median 

 wing coverts broadly edged and tipped with white. Bill and feet similarly 

 colored with those of the male. 



CORVlDyE. 



176. CoRVDS CAKNivoRus Bartram. 



Corviis cacalotl, Wagler. Isis. 1831, 527. (Mexico.) Baird, B. N. A. 



1858, p. 563. (Colorado Valley.) 

 Corvus carnivorus, Bartram ; Baird. B. N. A. 1858, p. 560. 

 Resident. Very abundant, especially about the clearings, cattle enclosures, 

 etc., where it congregates in immense numbers in the autumn and winter. 

 During the severe winter of 1864-5 great numbers perished at Fort Whipple 

 by cold and hunger. 



I cannot distinguish the Colorado Raven even as a well-marked variety of 

 carnivorus. Specimens from all points between the Arkansaw river and the 

 Colorado desert seem to me quite identical. 



177. PicicoRvus CoLUMBiANus (Wils.) Bon. 



Abundant at irregular intervals during the winter months ; from the middle 

 of October till March. High open forests. Restless, shy and noisy. 



Iris brown ; bill and feet black ; hard parts of mouth livid, fauces pinkish. 

 Specimens in moult have the plumbeous intercalated with a hoary, almost 

 ochraceous whitish, produced by the fading of the original colors. Individu- 

 als vary much in size. 



178. Gymnokitta cyanocepiiala Maxim. 



This singular and interesting species has the form of a crow ; but its colors 

 and its habits are most decidedly garruline. It is a very abundant and 

 characteristic bird at Fort Whipple, remaining all the year. It breeds in the 

 1866.] 




02 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



retired portions of the neighboring mountains, the young leaving the nest 

 early in July. During the winter months they collect in immense flocks ; 

 sometimes, as I witnessed in at least one instance, to the extent of a thousand 

 or more. These large companies scour the country about. Hying restlessly 

 and noisily from place to place, and generally scattering over a considerable 

 area. They arH shy and wary, so that, notwithstanding their numbers, they 

 are difficult to shoot. Their food is chiefly seeds, berries and nuts, especially 

 the nuts of the Pinns cf/»/«f, and the berries oi Janiperus pachijderma. They 

 alight much on the ground, where their gait is firm, erect and easy. Their 

 ftesh is quite palatable. 



Iris brown. Bill and feet black; soft parts of month rose red ; corneous 

 parts black. Males range from 11'50 to 12.00 in length, by from 16*50 to 

 19-00 in extent ; the females from 11-00 to 11 '50 in length, by lG-25 to 18-00 

 in extent. Differences in length are by no means always accompanied by 

 corresponding discrepancies in extent of wings. The intensity of the blue is 

 liable to great variation, as is also the distinctness of the white gular streaks. 

 The blue of the head usually merges quite insensibly into the grayish blue of 

 the back ; but there is often quite a distinct line of demarcation. Specimens 

 in poor plumage have frequently light gray primaries. 



179. Cyanocitta Woodhousei (Baird.) 



Cyanocorax californica, Woodhouse, in Sitgreave's Rep. Expl. Col. 



and Zufii R. 1853, p. 77. (San Francisco Mts.) 

 Cyanocitta Woodhousei, Baird. B. N. A., 1858, p. 585. 



Resident, and exceedingly abundant, being the most characteristic species. 

 Found in all situations ; but rather shuns dense pine woods and keeps on the 

 open hill-sides, among the scrub oaks, etc. In winter collects in rather large 

 flocks, sometimes as many as fifty ; usually, however, seen in little companies 

 of half a dozen individuals. A restless, vigilant, shy, and noisy species. 



Males average 12-00x16-50; females about 11*25x15-50. In moult, ex- 

 amples are often seen with gray like that of the dorsal patch intercalated with 

 the blue of the head. Iris brown ; bill and feet black. Mouth dull bluish 

 white. 



I think there is no doubt of the propriety of separating the southern Rocky 

 Mountain Cyanocitta from the true californica of the Pacific coast. The 

 characters as detailed by Baird, ut supra, are very constant and quite 

 appreciable. 



It is very probable that C. californica and C. Woodhousei will be found 

 associated at certain portions of the Colorado desert, as for example along the 

 Mojave river. 



(180.) Cyanocitta sordida (Sw.) Baird. 



Chiefly a Mexican species, but extending northward to the Gila Valley. 

 Fort Buchanan, Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, U. S. A. Copper mines, J. H. Clark. 



181. Cyanuka macrolopha Baird. 



Common ; resident. Almost exclusively pinicoline. Generally found in 

 small companies : never congregating to the extent even which C. Woodhousei 

 does. Very shy, vigilant, noisy and tyrannical. 



A very young bird taken July 22, on the San Francisco mountains, besides 

 being smaller, and having a weaker bill and feet, differs considerably from the 

 adult in colors. The upper parts are rather smoky brown than blue ; and 

 this color also invades the rump. Below the colors are also fuliginous ; only 

 a slight leaden or grayish cast indicating the future bright blue. At the same 

 time the wings and tail are nearly as bright blue as in the adult ; but the 

 black bars upon them are very obsolete, or wanting altogether. There is 

 considerable of a crest, but its color is fuliginous black instead of deep glossy 

 black ; and there are no traces of the white front and white about the eyes. 

 The crest is about as long as that of an adult Stelleri. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



The differences between this species and SteUeri of the Pacific coast, as de- 

 tailed by Prof. Baird, seem to me quite sufficient to separate them. I may 

 add, that in macrolopha the bluish white wash on the front occupies, 

 when the feathers are undistorted, two straight lines, ascending perpendicu- 

 larly from each nostril, and quite distinct from each other ; while in SteUeri 

 the tendency is for the whole front to be indiscriminately washed with bluish. 

 In both species, the colored tips of the frontal feathers have a somewhat dif- 

 ferent texture and consistence from their dark basal portions. 



A large series of specimens, chiefly from the head waters of the Columbia* 

 have the front washed with dull blue just as in SteUeri ; and have also the 

 white supra-ocular spot of macrolopha. It is quite possible that hybrids of the 

 two species may occur ; but I am not prepared to say positively that such is 

 the case in the present instance. Both species are found in the regions above 

 referred to. 



(182.) Pica hudsomca (Forst.) Bon. 



Sparingly distributed throughout the Territory. Not personally met with 

 at Whipple. 



Young birds shot in June in the Raton Mountains near Taos, N. M., hav« 

 the bill tipped with yellowi:;h. The tail is only about three inches long. But 

 there is a most remarkable similarity in color to the adults ; almost the only 

 perceptible differences being a restriction of the white on the primaries, and 

 rather dull greenish black instead of violet black wings and tail. 



The yellow billed F. Nuttallii, so abundant in Southern California, does not 

 appear to cross the Colorado desert to the river. 



COLUMBW^. 



183. CoLUMBA FASciATA Say. 



Summer resident ; very rare ; observed only on two occasions. 



184. Melopeleia leccopteea CLinn.) Bonap. 



Rare ; summer resident. Young birds, half fledged, taken Aug. 15, 1864, 



185. Zenaidura carolinensis, (Linn.) Bonap. 



Abundant summer resident. Arrives last week in April, remains nntil 

 middle of October. "Winters at Fort Mojave, and on the Pacific coast as 

 high as San Francisco." {Cooper.) 



To the traveller on the dry sandy wastes of Arizona this bird is always a 

 welcome sight, indicating with certainty the presence of water in the vicinity. 

 I have never known the sign to fail in my own limited experience. The na- 

 ture of the food ordinarily taken necessitates an abundant supply of water. 

 This was satisfactorily demonstrated to me on one occasion, when the crops of 

 several, shot just as they were coming to drink, were filled with small seeds, 

 as dry and hard as when first ingested, and totally unassimilable until mace- 

 rated with water. 



186. CHAMiEPELEIA PASSERINA (LiuU.) Swa'US. 



A rare and probably accidental visitor to the Valley of the Colorado. (Fort 

 Yuma, Ives, La Paz, Hutton. ) Probably goes at least as high as Fort Mojave. 

 Perhaps variety pallescens Baird, from Cape St. Lucas. 



PHASIANIDyE. 



187. Mbleagris mexicana Gould. 



There can be no doubt of the propriety of separating the Western Turkey 

 from the common species of the Eastern United States. The differences are 

 very decided, and of such a character as to have an important bearing upon 

 the question of the origin of the domesticated bird. The latter, as is well 

 known, usually approaches mexicana rather than gallipavo, in its colors. 



* The locality whence came the CarraZMS <S'/««cn:of Swaiiison (F. B. A. 1831, ii. p. 294, pi. liv.) 

 vbich is probably rather referrible to macrolopha than to the true SteUeri. 



186G.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The wild Turkey is a permanent resident of the mountains of the immedi- 

 ate vicinity of Whipple, but quite rare, so much so that I procured no speci- 

 mens. In some portions of the Southern Rocky Mountain region it is exceed- 

 ingly numerous. 



I have never detected any of the Tetraonidm in Arizona, though very pro- 

 bably the Centrocercus tu-oj)/iasianus may be hereafter found towards the Utah 

 border. Dr. Cooper has seen it On the Mojave River, about the southernmost 

 point it has yet been observed. 



Among the La()o/)idm, the Lngopus leucurus has been detected as far south 

 as Cantonment Burgwyn, in New Mexico, (lat. 37°,) and most probably will 

 be found in the mountains near the northern border of the Territory. 



PERDICIDyE, 

 188. LoPHORTYx Gambelii Nuttall. 



L. Ganbelii, '* Nuttall." Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1843, p. 260. Baird, 

 B. N. A. 1858, p. 645. Coues, Newton's Ibis. Jan., 1866, p. 46. (Bi- 

 ographical.) 

 " Lophorti/x californiciis," Cones, Newton's Ibis, 1865, p. 165. (Erro- 

 neous identification.) 



The common and characteristic Quail of the Southern- Rocky Mountain re- 

 gion from the Rio Grande to the Colorado, and south into Mexico. Replaces 

 the L. californica. The two species have been found associated at Soda Lake, 

 the sink of the Mojave River. 



In my paper, as above, will be found some account of the habits of this 

 Quail, which I had previously, in the same Journal, (Ibis, 1865, p. 165,) 

 incidentally mentioned erroneously as L. *^ calif ornicus." From a large 

 suite of specimens, lean describe the following stages from the callow state to 

 the fully adult condition. 



Downy state, a feiv days old. — Bill bright reddish above, nearly white be- 

 neath ; feet dull tiesh color. Head yellowish white tinged with grayish brown ; 

 the occiput with a broad spot of pure brown ; on the centre of the crown 

 (whence the plume will spring) a few black feathers, each longitudinally 

 streaked with white. Entire upper parts brownish gray, (color of the lighter 

 parts of the back of a Sturnella,) mottled with spots of black, and very con- 

 spicuously streaked with long, sharply pencilled lines of white. Primaries 

 dusky, their outer vanes marbled with brownish black and grayish white. 

 Whole under parts from the white jugulum narrowly and semiconfluently 

 barred with black and ochraceous white, and longitudinally streaked with 

 short but distinct lines of pure white. This coloration is most marked and 

 definite on the breast ; on the flanks and under tail coverts the markings are 

 duller and moie blended. The newly sprouted tail feathers are colored like 

 the primaries. Length about 3^ ; wing 1| ; tail ^. This stage may be seen 

 up to the last of August. 



Quarter grown. (Aug., Sep.; length 6 or 7 inches.) The general hue is 

 dull leaden gray, becoming ochraceous on the scapulars and wing coverts, 

 which are still a little mottled, as described above. Below the gray is very 

 light indeed, almost whitish, especially on the chin and middle of the belly. 

 Breast obsoletely waved with light and dark shades of gray, with still some 

 slight traces of the white longitudinal lines ; the crissal and anal regions the 

 same, but somewhat tinged with brown. On the sides under the wings there 

 is a slight fulvous or ferrugineous tinge, but nothing like definite strips. Pri- 

 maries plain dusky ; tail more plumbeous ; very finely marbled with blackish 

 and whitish. There is a broad superciliary white stripe extending to the ex- 

 treme occiput. 



During first autumnal moult. (Sep., Oct., Nov.) The preceding two plu- 

 mages are those of chicks, with few true feathers. When the autumnal moult 

 has made some little progress, the features of the adults begin to appear, 

 mixed in a varying degree with the preceding downy colors. Some of the 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



wing coverts and secondaries are still mottled, and the tail is a littled marbled, 

 but most of the feathers are clear plumbeous. On the breast, feathers of this 

 latter color are interspersed with the wavy gray ones. While the faint ferru- 

 gineoas flush of the sides is retained, there are apparent the definite stripes 

 of the adult. The crest is now an inch long, but still straight, not recurved, 

 and rather brown than black. The bill is quite black, and the feet dark 

 colored. At this season the peculiar head markings begin to appear, so that 

 the sexual features are quite apparent. 



The early age at which the crest begins to be apparent is surprising. Two 

 or three feathers longer than the rest very plainly indicate it in chicks only a 

 week or two old. But it does not become black and expanded and recurved 

 at the tip, till the bird is full grown and has completed the moult. 



Adult. Iris clear brown. Bill black. Legs and feet brown, sometimes 

 with a livid bluish tinge. 



(189.) Callipepla squamata (Vig.) Gray. 



From the Valley of the Gila and Lower Colorado, as well as that of the Rio 

 Grande. Not detected as far north as Whipple. 



190. Cyrtontx massena (Less.) Gould. 



I had frequently been informed of the occurrence of this species at Fort 

 Whipple, but I never met with it on but two occasions, when an adult male 

 and female were procured. It is doubtless a resident, thoush rare species. 



No. 1586. ?. Oct. 11, 1865. Length 9-00; extent 17 00; wing 4-80; 

 tail 2-00; bill -60; tarsus 1-20. Upper mandible dull reddish horn; lower 

 bluish white. Mouth whitish flesh color. Legs, feet and claws livid white, 

 with a somewhat yellowish tinge posteriorly. Iris brownish olive. The cut- 

 edges of the lower mandible are doubly dentated near their end. 



[Note. Many of the following Water Birds are really identified with the 

 Whipple series, but only those actually seen by me in that locality are givea 

 with uninclosed number.] 



GRUIDM. 



(191.) Grus canadensis (L.) Temm. 



Abundant on the Colorado and Gila Rivers. 



ARDEID^. 



(192.) Garzetta candidissima (Gm.) Bon. 



Very abundant throughout the Valley of the Colorado, 



(193.) Herodias egretta (Gm.) Gray. 



Abundant along the Colorado. Very probably the large variety californica 

 (Baird B. N. A. p. 667,) may also be found within the limits of the Territory. 



(194.) Ardea herodias Linn. 



Exceedingly abundant along the Colorado River. The nests of this speciea 

 are often seen on some ledge of rock projecting from the precipitous cliffs 

 which are covered with innumerable nests of Petrochelidon lunifrons. 



(195.) Ardetta exilis (Gm.) Gray. 



Generally distributed on the streams and cienegas of the Territory. Common 

 on the Colorado. 



(196.) Botaurus lentiginosus (Mont.) Steph. 

 Throughout the Territory. Common. 



(197.) Butorides virescens (L.) Steph. 



Very numerous along the Colorado and other streams of the Territory. 



(198.) Nyctiardea Gardeni (Gm.) Baird. 



Generally distributed ; nowhere very numerous. • 



1866.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



TANTALIDyE. || 



(199.) Tantalus locdlator Linn. 



Very common on the Colorado, at least as high as Fort Mojave, but especi- 

 ally abundant on the lower portions of this river and of the Gila. Great 

 numbers seen at Fort Yuma. 



200. Falcinkllus Ordii Bonap. 



Sparsely distributed througlrout New Mexico and Arizona. I have seen it 

 at intervals from the Rio Grande to the Colorado. Fort Whipple, Oct. 18, 

 1864, and at other times during the autumn. 



CHARADRZIDJE. 



201. Aegialitis vociferus (L.) Cass. 



The only small wader found in any considerable numbers about Fort 

 Whipple. Summer resident, arriving early in April and remaining until 

 November. 



(202.) Aegialitis semipalmatus, (Bp.) Cab. 



Colorado River, September and October, 1865. ' 



The C/iaradrius virginicusj and the Squatarola helvetica are both doubt- 

 less to be found in the Territory, though I have never seen specimens from 

 within its limits. 



PODASOCYS* Coues, nov. gen. 



Gh. Gen. Bill two thirds as long as the skull; equal to the middle toe and 

 claw; but little more than half the tarsus. Wing of moderate length, reach- 

 ing when folded beyond the tail ; second primary nearly as long as the first. 

 Tail exceedingly short, contained twice m the length of the wing from the 

 carpus; square; the rectrices broad to tbeir obtusely rounded tips. Legs 

 Btout and very long ; denuded portion of tibia two-thirds as long as the tarsus, 

 the latter nearly twice as long as the middle toe and claw; tibia and tarsus 

 entirely covered with small, polygonal, reticulated plates, largest on the ante- 

 rior face of the tarsus. Tjes very short and stout; lateral ones unequal in 

 lengtb : tip of inner claw nearly reaching base of outer lateral one ; tip of the 

 latter falling short of the base of the middle one. Claws short, obiuse and 

 little curved. Of moderate size, compact form and dull colors. 



Type. Charadrius monianus Towns. 



In general form thi? genus approaches somewhat j^gialitis, especially that 

 section of which melodus is typical [jEgialeus). But it differs widely in the 

 very short square tail, long denuded tibiae, very long tarsi, much abbreviated 

 toes, etc. It is possible tbat some genus already founded upon an exotic type 

 may include montanus^ but knowing of none such, I have no other alternative 

 than to institute a new name, in separating a heterogeneous element from the 

 genus with which it is usually associated. 



203. PoDASOCYS MONTANus (Towns.) 



This species has an extensive range quite from the northern boundary of the 

 United States to the Mexican border, and perhaps much farther each way ; 

 though at the same time it is strictly confiaed to the western p )rtions of the 

 continent. It is sparingly distributed throughout Arizona. I have constantly 

 met with it from the Rio Grande to the Pacific, in all the regions suitable to 

 its pecultar habits. I believe it is quite confined to dry plains either entirely 

 bare or covered with straggly brush. In its habits it diftVrs as much from 

 most other Charadriinx as does its form ; calling irresistibly to mind the 

 Eremophila cornuta. The stomachs of the specimens examined contained or- 

 thopterous and coleopterous insects. 



* From the Homeric epithet ^'c/sif oi«/f_«awlft-footea." 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



RECUR VIROSTRinJE. 



(204.) Recdbvirostra Americana Gmeliu. 



Recurvirustra occidentalis Vigors. Younpf. 

 Seen in large flocks on the sand-bars of the Colorado. 



(205.) HiMANTOPUs NiGRicoLLis VieiU. 



Common on the Colorado, in flocks, with the preceding. 



PEAL AR OPODID^E. 



(206.) Steganopus* Wilsonii (Sab.) 



A single specimen seen on the Colorado, Sept., 1865. The species is very 

 generally distributed throughout the interior of North America. 



SCOLOPACIDJE. 



(207.) Gallinaqo Wilsoni, (Temm.) Boo. 



Sparingly distributed throughout the Territory. 



(208.) Mackoramphus griskus (Gm.) Leach. 



Sparingly distributed throughout the Territory. Perhaps M. scolopaceus 

 may also be found. 



(209.) Actodromas Bairdii Coues. 



Tringa " Schinzii," Woodhouse, Sitgreave's Expl. Zuiii and Col. River, 



1853, p. 100. Not of Brehm, nor of authors generally. 

 Tringa Bonapartei, " Schlegel," Cassin, in Baird's B. N. A., 1858, p. 923. 

 In part. Of the specimens there enumerated Nos. 4869, 5442, 8800 are- 

 of this speciea ; No. 3451 is the true Bonapartei. 

 Actodromas Bairdii, Coues, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1861, p. 194. 

 Very generally distributed throughout the whole interior of North America. 

 No instances of its occurrence on either the Atlantic or Pacific coasts have 

 come to my knowledge. Examination of several specimens taken near th^- 

 Pueblo of Zuiii, in New Mexico, by Dr. S. W. Woodhouse, which were not ac- 

 cessible at the time of the preparation of my monograph, as above, shows them 

 to belong to this species, and not to the A. Bonapartei^ with which Dr. Wood- 

 house had identified thera under the erroneous name of Tringa Schinzii. These 

 specimens are interesting, as extending the range of the species west of the 

 Rocky Mountains, and causing it to be included in the Whipple avifauna. 



This species has been recently referred to A. maculata, and considered as , 

 founded upon a smaller race or upon immature specimens of the latter species, 

 by Dr. H. Schlegel;f certainly an unfortunate error, and one well illustrating 

 how unsafe it is to pass judgment upon a species with which we are autopi-- 

 cally unacquainted. If there be any specimens in the Museum of the Pays- 

 Bas referrible to maculata in any of its variations of size or colors, they are 

 by no means examples of the species I have named Bairdii. 



(210.) Actodromas minutilla (Vieill.) Coues. 



Seen in flocks on Little and Great Colorado Rivers, from July to October. 



(211.) Erednetes pusillus (Linn.) Cass. 



Common on the Colorado. It is quite possible that Mr. Lawrence's new. 

 E. occidentalis may also be found on the streams of the Territory. 



212. Symphemia semipalmata (Gm.) Hartl. 



Sparsely distributed throughout the Territory. Individuals seen Oct. 18th,. 

 1864, in a marsh near Whipple, 



* The three North American species of Phalaropes are so dissimilar ia form as to amply indicate 

 as many generic types: Steganopus \ieill. (^Wilsonii) ; Lobipcs Cu\ (hr/pcrboreus) ; and PAa/«ro- 

 pua Briss. (fulicarius.) 



t Article Tringie in Cat. Mus. d'Hist. Pay8-Ba6. 



1866.] 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



(213.) Gambetta mrlanoledca (Gin.) Bon. 

 Abundant on the Colorado. 



214. RnvACOiMiiiiiTS solitabius (Wils.) Bon. 



A single specimen taken at Fort Whipple, August, 18G4 ; at a small pool in 

 hljjh thick pine woods. 



(215.) Tringoides macularius (L.) Gray. 

 Very numerous along the Colorado. 



216. Ndmenius longirostris Wilson. 



A single specimen, taken in August, 18G4, at Fort Whipple. 



Other limicoline Grallaj to be found, probably, are Tryngites rufescen& and 

 Limosa fedoa. 



RALLin.F. 

 (217.) Rallus virginianus L. 



This species has been detected in the Territory. 



(218.) Porzana CAROLINA (Linn.) 



Colorado River, A. Schott. I think it probable that one or two other Rails 

 are to be added to the avifauna of the Territory. 



(219.) FULICA AMERICANA, Gm. 



Abundant along the Colorado. 



ANATID.E. 



(220.) Cygnus americanus Sharpless. 

 Colorado River. Fort Mojave, Cooper. 



221. Anser hyperboreus Pall. 

 Common on the Colorado. Specimen taken near Fort Whipple, Oct. 17, 18G4. 



(222.) Anser Gambeli, Hartl. 



Anser frontalis, Baird, B. N. A. 1858, p. 762. Young. (Fort Thorn, 

 N. x\I.) 

 Colorado River. Abundant. 



I am informed by Prof. Baird that he is now satisfied that his A. frontalis is 

 only an immature stage of plumage of A. Gavibeli. An analogous plumage is 

 known as one of the conditions of the European Anser albifrons. 



(223.) Berntcla canadensis (L.) Boie. 

 Colorado River. 



(224.) Bkrnicla Hdtchinsii (Rich.) Bon. 



One of the most abundant geese of the Colorado Valley. B. nigricans seems 

 to be exclusively a maritime species. 



225. Dendrocygna fdlva (Gm.) Burm. 



A pair, taken in November, about twenty miles from Fort Whipple. This is 

 the only instance in which the species has come under my observation from 

 Arizona. Dendrocygna autumnalis will also doubtless be found in the Terri- 

 tory. 

 .226. Anas boschas L. 



227. Dafila acuta (Linn.) Jenyns. 



228. Nettion carolinensis (Gm.) Baird. 



These thr<!e species are abundant on all the waters of the Territory. 



-229. Querquedula cyanoptera, (Yieill ) Cass. 



Numbers of this Teal were observed in October on the head of the San Fran- 

 cisco River, near Whipple. At the same season during the following year I 

 -saw them in numbers on the Colorado River. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 99 



The three following Aiiatinse are also found on the Colorado River : 

 (230.) Markca AMERICANA (Gill.) Steph. 

 (231.) Spatula clypbata (L.) Boie. 

 (232.) Chaulelasmus strkperus (L.) Gray. 



(233.) BuCEPHALA ALBEOLA (L.) Baird. 



This is the only one of the Faligulinx which, so far as I am aware, has been 

 actually brought from Arizona; though undoubtedly species of Fuliz and 

 Ayihya are found within its limits. 



The same remarks apply to several species of Merginx ; especially to MergiLs 

 serrator, and Lophodytes cucullaius. 



LARID.E. 



(234.) Larus delawarensis Ord. 



This species I saw on the Colorado in the autumn of 1865. It is very pro- 

 bable also that the L. californicus may be detected in the same region. Mr. 

 Xantus has sent it from Fort Tejon, California. 



(235.) Chrcecocephalus atricilla (L.) Lawr. 



Colorado River, particularly its lower portions. A specimen taken over a 

 hundred miles from any body of water, near the eastern border of the Territory. 



(236.) Chroecocephalus Philadelphia (Ord.) Lawr. 



Very abundant on the Colorado. I am under the impression that I also saw 

 Ch. Franklinii about twenty miles from the river near Fort Mojave. The Colo- 

 rado Valley is quite within its known range of migration, 



237. Sterna Forsteri (Nuttall) Lawrence.* 



S. hirundo, Sw. et Rich. F. B. A. 1831, ii. 412. (Nee. Linn.) 



S. Forsteri^ Nuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. p. 274. (lu foot-note under S. 



hirundo; name proposed in evect of ^^ hirundo Sw. Rich." proving 



distinct. No full description.) 

 Lawrence, Ornithological Notes, in Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, of New York, 



1852, page 3. Lawrence, B N. A. 1858, p. 862. (Definite chnracteri- 



zation of species, and full description.) Coues, Rev, Terns N. A.. Pr. 



A. N. S. Ph. 1862, p. 544. (Gix^es the different ages and stages of 



plumage, and compaiisons with hirundo and macrura.) 

 S. Havelli^ Audubon, Orn. Biog., v. 1839, p. 122, and his other works. 



Lawrence, Birds N. A., 1858, p. 861. Coues, Rev. Terns N. A., Pr. 



A. N. S. Ph. 1862, p. 543. (Considers it as adult winter plumage of 



Forsteri. ) 

 This species occurs on the Colorado, as indeed on most other of the large 

 rivers of the interior. 



(238.) Hydrochelidon fissipes (Linn.) Gray. 



Sterna fissipes, Linn., S. N., 12th ed., 1776, p. 228. 



Hydrochelidon fissipes, .Gtay, Genera, iii. 1849, p. 660. Coues, Pr. A. N, 



'S. Ph., Dec, 1862, p. 554. 

 Sterna nigra, Brisson, Boie, and other authors, but not of Linnaeus, 



which is leucoptera auct. 

 Sterna plumbea, Wilson; Hydrochelidon plumbea^ Lawrence, and other 

 American writers. (American bird identical with European.) 

 Has been taken on the Colorado. " Mojave River," Cooper. 



* To Mr. G. N. Lawrence of New York is entirely due the credit of first brinjjing this specieg 

 5ftrominently into notice, bo long ago as the year 1852, and of carefully distinguishing it from 

 hirundo. Nuttall's original notice is so brief and unsatisfactory, that it should hardly be accepted 

 as the first characterization of the species; which ought in all propriety to bear Mr. Lawrence's 

 rather than Mr, Nuttall's name. For further slucidation of this Tern, see my Rev. Terns N. A., 

 ut BuprJi. 



1866.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



I have seen Sterna antillarum mihi ex Lesson, (frcnafa Gamb. argeptea Nutt. 

 nee Maxim, vnmita Wils. nee L.) from the coast of California, and have little 

 doubt that it is found on the Colorado River as well. 



PELECANID^. 



(1339.) PkLECAITUS ERYTHBORHYNCnUS Gm. 



Abundant on the Gila and Colorado Rivers. 



It is a question with me whether this species should retain the name above 

 given by Gmelin ; to the exclusion of the very pertinent " trachyrhynchus " 

 Lalh. The bill is not red at all, but yellow ; and it is the P. fuscus whose bill 

 really is red. The name thus conveys such an erroneous impression, as should 

 justify its rejection. 



The P. fuscus is essentially a maritime bird, and if found upon the Colorado 

 at all, is probably only a straggler. 



PIIA LA CROCORA CIDJE. 



(240.) Graculus dilophus (Sw.) Gray. 

 Gulf of California and lower Colorado, Cooper. 



COLYMBID.E. 



(241.) CoLYMBUS TORQUATUS Brunn. 

 Winter resident on the Colorado river. Common. 



(242.) CoLYMBUS PACIPICU8 Lawr. 



C. padficus^ Lawrence, Birds N. A. 1858, p. 889. Coues, Syn. Colymhidee 

 N. A. in Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1861, p. 228. Coues, Newton's Ibis,'l866. 

 Much material additional to that possessed by Mr. Lawrence in 1858, or by 

 myself in 1861, tends to confirm the validity of this species, first described from 

 }0ung specimens. I have since then seen large suites of adult birds, chiefly 

 from the interior of Arctic America, and am quite confident that my remarks 

 (1. c.) upon its relations to C. arcticua are pertinent. See also my notes in 

 Newton's Ibis, as above cited. 



PODIOIPID^. 



(243.) PoDiCEPs (D^TEs) coRNUTUS Lath. 

 Colorado River. 



(244.) PoDiCEPS (Proctopus) CALiFORNicus (Heerm.) Cone?. 



Podiceps californicus, Heermann, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1854, p. 179. Young 



bird. Lawrence, B. N. A., 1858, p. 896. Young. 

 Podiceps {Proctopus) californicus, Coues, Syn. Podicipidas, in Pr. A. N. S. 

 Ph. 1862, p. 231. (Considers it as =P. auriius ex Americd.) 

 Ponds near Fort Mojave, Colorado River, Cooper. 



The original P. califomicus^ as characterized by Dr. Heermann, is based upon 

 an immature bird, and its relationships to P. auriius by no means indicated. 

 It was shown in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy for 1862 that 

 the bird is neither more or less than the young of the American auritus ; full 

 plumaged specimens of which I easily distinguished from the European auritus. 

 The name califormcua I adopted as obviating the necessity of a new one, al- 

 though Dr. Heermann's diagnosis gives none of the special points which sepa- 

 rate the bird from auritus ; but shall claim the species for my own, from the 

 very different interpretation of it which I have elucidated. 



(245.) PoDiLYMBUs PODICEPS (L.) Lawreucc. 

 Colorado River. Abundant. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



April Zd. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members pres'^nt. 



The following was offered for publication : Observations on Chae- 

 tetes, etc." By C Rominger, M. D. 



April 10th. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Twenty- nine members present. 



A letter was read from Dr. G. Lincecum, of Texas, containing a 

 history of the "small black erratic ant," as follows : 



The small black, crooked running ant, socommon in everybody's yard, and 

 on almost every growing twig in spring time and summer, is called, in my 

 catalogue of ant species, the erratic, or crazy ant. He is No. 5 in my notes 

 on the various types of ants. In this species, the formic acid odor is very 

 strong when the ant is crushed. He is quick in his movements, does not 

 make paths, but travels in scattered files, in the same direction, sometimes 

 several hundred yards; moves quickly on a general course, running very 

 crooked the whole route, giving his path a broad range, travelling two or 

 three times the distance to his place of destination. All along the range of 

 their path, at unequal distances, are depots or station-houses, at which they 

 often call as they pass along, giving the whole affair quite a business aspect. 

 Or it may be that what I have denominated depots or station-houses, will turn 

 out, ^n a more careful investigation, to be a line of regularly constituted and 

 well organized confederate cities, among which there is carried on a rapid 

 and extensive commerce. At any rate, there can be no doubt of the facttliat 

 they are engaged in an extensive and well-established, reciprocal intercourse 

 throughout the entire line of their cities. Cripple one of them on the route 

 of his travel, and you produce the wildest excitement, and the invalid will be 

 visited and examined by perhaps 500 of the travelling throng in the course 

 of two or three minutes. If the case is a curable one they work with hira 

 until he is on foot again, when he moves onward with the crowd as before. 

 If he dies, they remove him from the range of the great thoroughfare, and 

 business rolls on again. 



They sometimes wage war with the red-headed tree- ant, (he is the No. 4 

 of my catalogue, and may be fully described in some future article), and the 

 conflict is generally quite disastrous. Notwithstanding the fact that they are 

 always able to bring to the field more than ten times the number of their red- 

 headed foe, they often meet with defeat. 



I was spectator to a battle, or rather a field fight, between these two species 

 of ant, that continued four or five hours. Small parties were engaged in the 

 deathly conflict at sunrise, when I first observed them. They were fighting 

 in the wagon road, and their numbers were rapidly increasing. At the time 

 I was called to breakfast, they were in considerable force on both sides, and 

 when I returned I found both armies greatly augmented. Reinforcements 

 were constantly arriving, and the battle was raging over an area of eight to 

 ten feet in diameter. The discipline and modes of battle of the two species 

 are entirely different. The method of attack, by the little black ant, is aimed 

 altogether at the feet and legs of the foe; and as they greatly outnumber the 

 red heads, by engaging them two or three to one, they succeed in maiming 

 and rendering large numbers of them unfit for service. The red heads seem 

 1866.] 




103 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



to aim only at decapitation, and tliis they accomplish with dexterity and snr- 

 ])rising facility. Reinforcements were momentarily arriving to both armies. 

 Thousands were already engaged, and the bloody strife was raging over the 

 entire area of the battle-field. 



Being controlled only by two forces, — desperation and death — the scene 

 was terrific beyond my powers of description. In all directions, everywhere, 

 were seen the dire effects of relentless war. The battle-field was already 

 thickly strewn with the dead and dying, over whom, in regardless tramp, 

 swept the furious antagonism. Here indeed was, for once, at least, full mani- 

 festations of the unmistakable, genuine " tug of war." Violently struggling 

 and gnashing their jaws ; clinging together and wallowing on the ground, in 

 companies, in squads and single combat, the direful contest fiercely raged. 

 Dispatches had been sent off by the black ants for their entire reserve to be 

 forwarded immediately, and they were pouring out by the million from the 

 gates of their great city, — distant about GO feet, — and hurrying toward tlie 

 battle-field. They were evidently making a forced march, and their numbers 

 were so great, that by the time they had progressed 20 to 30 feet, their line 

 of march suggested the idea of a broad black ribband trailing on the ground, 

 hnd there seemed to be no end to them, for they were still flowing out from 

 the city in countless thousands. 



At this crisis their army on the battle-field gave way and was routed, and 

 in a general panic commenced a retreat. Soon, in their disorderly flight, they 

 met their reinforcements and communicating to the front ranks their total and 

 disastrous discomfiture, the panic became universal, and reinforcements and 

 all fled precipitately into the city. In five minutes there were no black ants 

 to be seen above ground. The news of the great battle and its disastrous 

 results seemed to have been spread around to those even who had not been 

 engaged in the battle, but who were busied in their daily avocations. At all 

 events, from some cause the black ants immediately disappeared entirely from 

 the top of the earth in that vicinity. Not so on the battle-ground. The vic- 

 tors occupied the ensanguined field, and were busily employed for several 

 hours. Many of them were attending to the wounded, which were numerous, 

 and whom they carried into the shade of a large clod of earth, that had been 

 turned up by some heavy road wagon, to get them out of the scorching sun- 

 shine, which was pouring down in great force, it being now nearly 11 o'clock. 

 Much the larger portion of them were gathering up and packing off the de- 

 capitated bodies of the black ants, and carrying them up a post oak tree, in 

 which they had their city, and which also stood near by. Upon these head- 

 less victims of the bloody strife they intended, as I supposed, to have a grand 

 feast. 



There was a great running to and fro by those who were attending the 

 wounded. They seemed to exert themselves greatly and to manifest much 

 sympathy for them. In the course of an hour many of the wounded were so 

 far recovered as to be able to travel, while those who remained invalid were 

 carried up the tree by their friends. Although great numbers of the red-heads 

 were wounded, and some of them seriously, there were but few dead ones, 

 and these were carried up the tree with the headless trunks of the conquered 

 foe. After the victorious red-heads had left the battle-field, the only signs 

 that remained to mark the place of the destructive contest was the dissevered 

 heads of the vanquished. Of these there were so many that they suggested 

 the idea of gunpowder strewed along the ground. 



The food of this species of insect is various. He is quite fond of vege- 

 table oils, sweet saps and honey. He collects his sweets from the tender 

 buds and glands and blooms of plants, and in great quantities from the aphis 

 — vine fretter or plant louse. These plant lice have their inflected beak in- 

 serted in the tender bark of the buds and twigs of the growing plants, vines 

 and the like, where, in dense crowds they cling, sucking the sweet sap. 

 Among these masses of plant lice is ever found great numbers of the erratic 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 103 



aats, carefully and gently walking through the ranks of the sap-sucking pests ; 

 busily engaged in licking up the honey dew, which is nothing more than the 

 transparent excrementitious fluid, that is momentarily dropping from the 

 countless aphides. To facilitate the process of collecting these precious 

 sweet drops, the ant caressingly applies its antennae to the bloated sides of 

 the plant louse, who obligingly turns up his tail and delivers the sweet little 

 transparent drop, which is thankfully received and licked up by the polite 

 little teaser. From observations on this peculiarity in the character of the 

 erratic ant, have originated the occasional accounts we have seen published 

 in the newspapers about the ant's milk cows. As far as my observation goes, 

 the erratic ant is the only one of the genus that visits and collects the excre- 

 mentitious droppings of the aphis. 



Besides the great quantities of food collected from the aphis, or plant lice, 

 by these courageous and extremely industrious little creatures, the oak family 

 of trees affords them large supplies. The post oak {Qaercws obtusiloba) and 

 the black-jack (Quercus nigra) particularly. They will travel a long distance 

 from home to visit a thrifty-growing tree of either of these oaks. And, as 

 these trees yield their supplies all the time of the green foliage, they generally 

 establish a chain of depots along the line of travel, from their nearest city to 

 the food-giving tree. Or it may be, that finding the selected tree capable of 

 supplying food for great numbers, they have, instead of depots, extended 

 their cities along the range of the great thoroughfare, and thus, by the addition 

 of city after city, strengthen the confederacy, and increase the faciliities for 

 procuring provisions for their great and extended realm. 



This is no fiction, or fancy sketch, in the history of the contrivances of these 

 thoughtful little emmets. It is sometimes a hundred yards or more from the 

 mother hive, or city, to the tree that their commissaries have selected ; and at 

 various distances along the road, they do erect new establishments, at first, 

 thinly scattered on the route, which are, however, seen to increase annually 

 all the way to the tree, if it remains alive, — and these are either depots, 

 places of deposit for their surplus accumulations of their stores of provisions, 

 or they are confederated communities. Bs it either way, the fact that they 

 are carrying on a well-regulated and thoroughly-understood system of 

 friendly, reciprocal intercourse cannot be denied ; that is, as far as any one 

 line of depots, or cities, as I prefer to call them, are concerned. 



Coming across any one of their great thoroughfares we find them streaming 

 along in both directions. Take either end of this road, and you may trace 

 it to its terminus. It may be some distance, but you will find it if you per- 

 severe, either in a terminal city, or a live tree ; and that it is not connected 

 with any other range of cities, (I prefer the term cities), which, as I think, 

 further and more careful investigation will decide these peculiar ranges of 

 ant nests to be. 



In large towns and cities constructed by the human species, where they 

 have cut down and destroyed the forests, these sagacious little ants would have 

 to evacuate such places, if they possessed no reasoning powers to enable 

 them to adapt themselves to other conditions and circumstances. The ant 

 finds that the march of civilization has crushed out and destroyed all his 

 resources for subsistence ; and viewing arrogant man as the prime cause 

 of this great loss, he quickly decides to hold him accountable, and force him 

 to make good the damage. To eff*ectuate this grand retaliative resolve, he forth - 

 with-transports his eggs and young ones, with their nurses and teachers into 

 the intruder's kitchen, into the little crannies and cracks, in the timbers about 

 the dairy and dining apartment, and particularly beneath the hearths in the 

 dwelling. In these newly-established homes they become more thrifty than 

 they were while in a natural state. Finding provisions abundant and very 

 convenient, they are encouraged to labor more, and they increase at a ratio 

 unprecedented. Soon their numbers are so great that they are to be seen in 



1866.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



all portions of the house, sucking and carrying away every thing greasy or 

 sweet that is not hermetically scaled. They cut and destroy window curtains 

 and articles of clothing that, are starched. 



One way to destroy the erratic ant, is to lay out a greasy rag or recently 

 laid aside greasy bone. By either of these experiments multitudes of them 

 will be attracted, and when sufficient numbers of them have collected on the 

 bait, hold it in the flame of burning shavings or other quick combustible, 

 repeating the experiment frequently. But if the bone or rag be left undis- 

 turbed, it will not be long until they have extracted every particle of the oil 

 from it ; and should there be any scraps of flesh remaining on the bone 

 when it is cast aside, it will be found that in a short time, they have cut 

 the flesh to pieces, and after extracting the oil it may have contained, dropped 

 it down in the form of dry powder, showing conclusively that they do not 

 subsist on flesh, or dry food. They treat the kernels of any of the oily nuts 

 in the same way. Hence I conclude that they subsist on a fluid diet, and 

 that they, like the honey bee, are provided with an internal sack, or pouch, 

 in which to transport their stores to the cities. 



This day, 22d August, I observed the erratic ant in great numbers, carrying 

 something in their mouths, and, as it was a visible something they were 

 ])acking home, I was curious to know what it might be. So I robbed a couple 

 of them of their freight, which, on being exposed under the microscope, 

 turned out to be the carcass of the smallest — almost microscopic — black anr, 

 the No. 7 of my catalogue. After tnaking this discovery, I examined quite 

 a number of them, and found the abdomen of all alike torn open and emptied 

 — disembowelled. They were bringing them from beneath the cook house, 

 where the poor little fellows had been filling themselves with waste syrup 

 that had been spilled there. This circumstance had been discovered by some 

 of the spies of the erratic ants, and now, as it had been licked np by the little 

 ants, there was no way left for them to possess themselves of the rich treasure 

 but to wage war upon the smaller ant, and tear it out of their full sack. And 

 this they had already accomplished before I discovered them, and were now 

 carrying home their lacerated carcasses, to have them sucked and dried of 

 their blood and other contained fluids. 



This type of ants is very numerous, courageous, and exceedingly thrifty 

 and belligerent. He will engage in battle with any of the other types. They 

 occasionally succeed in capturing the large, red, agricultural ant. {Myrmka 

 molefaciens^ S. B. Buckley.) I did not know then how they had managed to 

 take him ; but they had one of these big red felloAvs very secure when I first 

 discovered them, and were making a great parade around him. They were 

 clinging two or three to every leg of the large ant, and great numbers were 

 parading and ranting on each side of the road, as they slowly and laboriously 

 moved along with their giant captive, who seemed to be not only in great 

 distress, but very loathe to be carried in the manner and the direction they 

 Avere so unceremoniously dragging him along. The little black warriors had 

 already deprived him of two or three of his feet, and they were sawing away 

 at the remainder of his legs and feet, whilst he was clinging with his large 

 jaws to a piece of oak leaf; and that the little black fellows were hauling 

 him, leaf and all, to some terrific fate, was manifested by the prisoner in all 

 his actions. I had not time then to wait and see how the affair terminated. 

 Since that case, however, I have witnessed a good many similar ones. It 

 occurs quite frequently. 



The agricultural ant, in his foraging excursions, travels over a wide range, 

 and will not turn his course for anybody. So, when in his course, he falls 

 into a range of confederate cities of the erratic ant, he walks on as carelessly 

 among them as if there was no one at home ; and, as a general thing, the 

 sagacious little braves suffer him to pass unmolested, paying but little atten- 

 tion to him. But sometimes he meddles too much, and, putting on airs, con- 

 trary to their notions of propriety, they consider it a national insult, and 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 105 



instantly, all that portion of the confederacy are up in arras. Large com- 

 panies attack him forthwith. It is, however, always a dangerous experiment, 

 and very often results in failure. At the best, there is to the erratic ant, in 

 these cases of daring, great loss of life. When they make the attack, the 

 giant intruder, at first, seems to regard it as an affair of a trifling nature, and 

 with but little concern, strikes about amongst his diminutive assailants 

 without any apparent anxiety. He occasionally snatches up one of the most 

 venturesome, and, as if to frighten the rapidly-increasing hordes, or to show 

 off his great strength, he breaks the backs or heads of half a dozen or so, 

 but does not kill near as many as he might. 



The news of this giant invader of the confederacy soon spreads to every 

 city, each of which sends out its quota of warriors ; and it is surprising to 

 note how promptly and with what haste they stream along on the road to the 

 troubled city. The field around the red monster begins to blacken with the 

 accumulating regiments of the invaded nation ; and now, when it is too late, 

 the great red monster begins in earnest to crush and slay every one that 

 comes in range of his death-dealing jaws; and, by means of his great 

 strength and power to crush and destroy every one upon whom he can clamp 

 his ponderous jaws, he often succeeds, with the loss of one or more of his 

 feet, perhaps, in extricating himself from the dangerous thraldom. But 

 more frequently, the daring little blacks pitch into the strife in such multi- 

 tudes, and seizing him by every foot, and leg, and horn, and weighing him 

 down by their numbers, overturn him, clip off his feet, gnaw at his throat, 

 saw at his waist, and, finally, in the course of half a day, succeed in render- 

 ing the giant foe harmless. And now, with a grand display of their numbers, 

 they drag the now helpless victim about in triumph for a time, and then as 

 many as can get a hold of the dying red ant pierce him in the joints of his 

 coat of mail, and suck from his trembling, agonizing, prostrate body all the 

 vital fluids, leaving the perfectly-dry skeleton on the plain, as a warning to 

 all such adventurous intruders. 



About the first of October, or as soon as the atmospheric temperature 

 begins gradually to lower, the thoughtful little erratic ant, who is, indis- 

 putably, a practical meteorologist, goes diligently to work, deepening his 

 habitation. A knowledge of the meteorological indications obtains with all 

 the species of the ant genus. Hence, we find that, during the summer sea- 

 son, they throw out from their cells only black dirt — soil ; then they are ex- 

 cavating apartments near the surface, both for convenience to the foraging 

 laborers, whose duty it is to bring in the supplies, and to obtain a higher 

 temperature for the purpose of hatching and nurturing the young. But, as 

 soon as the signs of approaching winter supervene, we see them throwing up 

 clay, and, among the larger types of the genus, borings of the limestone 

 rock, even. Thus we learn that they arg preparing cells or apartments at a 

 greater depth. With a perfect knowledge of their physical powers of resist- 

 ance to the atmospherical changes which are to take place during the winter, 

 they construct their winter quarters. Accordingly, if we take pains to 

 ascertain the truth by examining the facts for ourselves, we shall find them 

 excavating their winter apartments at a depth below the line of change — to 

 where the temperature is uniform at about 48° Fahrenheit. Here, with the 

 addition of the vital warmth of the swarm, the temperature of their winter 

 quarters maintains an uniform heat of about 69°. In this the community 

 remains comfortable and active throughout the season of inclement weather. 



16th March, 1862. This was quite a gala day with this species of ant. At 

 all their holes everywhere in this vicinity, might be seen great numbers of 

 their diminutive, white- winged queens frisking about, around the entrance to 

 their cities, in a very antic style. All the drones, or male ants, were out, too, 

 running very rapidly to and fro, chasing the queens, who suft'ered themselves 

 to be overtaken, receiving the embrace of their lovers quite naturally and 

 very often. Many of the neutrals were out also, who were engaged in trans- 



1866.] 




106 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



j>orting their cgps and yonnj? ones, in all stages of growth, from one hole to 

 another, running rapidly with the tender, maggot-like looking things, to 

 prevent them, as 1 thought, from being injured by the sun, wliicli was hot 

 for the season. Others, again, who were not carrying the young, would dash 

 up behind the nearest queen, and, in a playful manner, seize her by the 

 extreme tii)s of her folded white wings with his calliper-like mandibles, 

 raise her from the ground, and rush headlong into the nearest hole with her. 

 The queens did not seem to relish this piece of rudeness, but they submitted 

 to it with good grace, and soon came frisking back to their lovers again. 

 I saw hundreds of them carried forcibly into their holes, in the same 

 playful style, by the workers, who, not unfrequently, snatched them rudely 

 from the embrace of the males. The males or drones of the erratic ant, un- 

 like most of the other species, have no wings; on which account it becomes 

 necessary for the queens to receive their embraces previous to taking their 

 flight, which they all do instantly, after they are satisfied with their lovers. 



The queens or mother ants of this species are not more than half the size 

 of the workers and nurses of the cities to which she belongs. She is not so 

 large as a small flea, and yet she takes her aerial voyage alone, and, if the 

 wind is strong, she may continue her flight many miles. When she descends 

 to earth again, she immediately cuts off her wings, which are no longer use- 

 ful, and goes to work to establish a new city. 



Just think of the great powers possessed by this small, almost microscopic 

 insect. Let us recount some of her known attributes. Poised on her tiny 

 white wings, all alone, and charged as she is, in embryo, with myriad nations 

 and kingdoms of her species, destined to flourish and perform their parts on 

 the future life stage, in the grand conflict for subsistence, confidently com- 

 mits herself to the swift winds, and, while in search of her new home, she 

 continues her aerial flight, perhaps, for hundreds of miles. She lights at 

 last, however, and, cutting away her wings, which are no longer necessary, 

 commences the work of excavating and preparing cells and apartments for 

 the coming generations. And now, supposing it to be true, that this is the 

 only ant of that species on the face of the globe, such is her wonderful pro- 

 lific powers, that it would require but very few short years for her to re- pro- 

 duce, and fill our yards, and paths, and hearths, and, sugar barrels, as thickly 

 with the countless millions as we now find them. 



The deaths were anDounced of the following members : Mr. Augus- 

 tus Fiot, of Bethlehem, April 5th, and Mr. Robert E. Griffith, and 

 Col. Robert Carr, Correspondent. 



ApTKl nth. 



Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



The deaths were announced of the following members : Mr. John 

 P. Crozer, March 11th, and Mr. Roland E. Evans, April 14th. 



April 24ih. 



Mr. Yaux, Yice- President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected Members: Mr. John B. 

 Parker, Joseph Thomas, M. D., Mr. Josiah Hoopes, Mr. Charles 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



S. Lewis, Mr. Tryon Reakirt, Mr. Edward K. Tryon, Jr., Rev. George 

 D. Boardman, Lemuel J. Deal, M. D., R. L. Webber, M. D., U. S.N., 

 Mr. Samuel R. Shipley, Mr. William Sellers, and Mr. Joseph Walton. 

 The following were elected Correspondents : Prof. Alfred DuBois, 

 Colorado, Mr. Jacob Stauffer, Lancaster, Pa., and Dr. J. H. Baxter, 

 U. S. A. 



May \st. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



*' Notes on some members of the Feldspar Family.'' By Isaac Lea. 



May Sth. 

 The President, Dr. Isaac Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



Dr. Ruschenberger stated, in relation to the fossil fish-scales presented this 

 evening, that Col. James Greer, of Dayton, Ohio, had found them, March 19, 

 1866, with the bones of the head, ribs, vertebrae, &c., of the fish, about two 

 miles north of Yicksburg, Miss., on the river side of Fort Hill, about two hun- 

 dred feet above high-water mark, in the escarpment of a narrow road-way, 

 imbedded in the solid earth in a direction from north-west to south east, four 

 feet beneath the top of the bank or surface. Dr. Leidy supposes these scales 

 to be identical with those of an existing species of the Mississippi. 



May 16th. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in tbe Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" On the Structure and Distribution of the Genera of the Arciferous 

 Anura," and " Fourth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical 

 America." By E. D. Cope. 



" Description of five new species of Unio," and '* Description of two 

 new species of Lithasia." By Isaac Lea. 



*' Observations on the Cranial Forms of the North American Indians." 

 By J. Aitken Meigs, M. D. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman observed : I have the honor of presenting to the 

 Academy a fine Slickenside in the carboniferous conglomerate, found at Ply- 

 mouth, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania. The Slickenside covers a surface of 

 irregular shape, eight inches and a half long in the longest part and sixteen 

 inches wide ; and is very smoothly and straightly grooved, evidently by the 

 rubbing of one portion of the rock upon the other. It has struck me as inte- 

 resting chiefly on account of its giving a perfectly satisfactory explanation of 

 what have been sometimes taken for fossil calamites that had impressed them- 

 selves upon the quartz pebbles of the conglomerate so as to flatten and groove 

 them. Such impressions were mentioned by Professor Jehu Brainerd of Cleve- 



1866.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



land, in a paper read before the Cleveland meeting of the American Asso- 

 ciation for the Advancement of Science, and published himself the next year, 

 as a principal arpiiuient in favor of his theory of the formation of sandstones, 

 and even conplomcrntes, solely by chemical deposition. He supposed the 

 pebbles to have been deposited in a gelatinous stHte at first, so as to be capable 

 of receiving the impressions of plants ; and he gives a figure of such an im- 

 pression resembling a calamite or a coarse conglomerate with the surface of 

 the pebbles quite flat. I was puzzled by a similar detached fragment of a 

 Blickenside in the conglomerate near Beaver Meadow, in 1859; but this speci- 

 men, from its size and completeness, explains perfectly both that one and the 

 one figured by Professor Brainerd. 



Aside from the striking extravagance of Professor Brainerd's theory, and 

 from this specimen's refutation of one of his best arguments, another argument 

 against him, furnished by his own figures, may perhaps properly be mentioned 

 here. A gelatinous pebble flattened by pressure on one side would, manifestly, 

 be distorted on other sides, and a number of such pebbles lying side by side, 

 affected by the same pressure, would have analogous distorions. In Professor 

 Brainerd's figure of the so-called fossil calamite, the pebbles flattened on one 

 side show no such distortion, but retain on every other side their rounded, 

 water-worn look ; so that the general appearance is, in effect, that of pebbles 

 cut in two, instead of flattened down by pressure. The same can be said of 

 the pebbles in his figure of the conglomerate resting with flat bottomed peb- 

 bles on the soft red shales, which he says is a very common occurrence, and 

 which forms his other best argument in support of his theory. 



The death was announced of Mr. J. Pemberton Hutchinson, Member, 

 on May 9th. 



Mmj 22r7. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Thirty members present. 

 The following were presented for publication : 

 '* Monograph of the Procellaridae." Parts IV. and V. By Elliot 

 Coues, M. D. 



" On the Introduction of the Shad into the Alabama River." By 

 Prof W. C. Daniel. 



Dr. Le Conte made some remarks on the subfamily Clavigeridse, of Coleoptera. 



He described briefly the structure and habits of these insects, and pointed 

 out the distinctive characters of the three described genera, Claviger, Adranes 

 and Articerus, to which he added a fourth, F u s t i g e r. 



This new genus agrees with Articerus in having eyes, but differs in the 

 structure of the antennae. These organs in Articerus are broad, without 

 distinct basal articulation, but in Fustiger consist of a long subconical 

 mass, gradually broader externally, truncate, and covered with a sponge of 

 hair at the tip, and marked with four or five indistinct transverse sutures, 

 showing that it is composed of closely connate joints ; between this subconical 

 mass and the head is a distinct short basal joint, projecting beyond the fovea 

 in which the antenna is inserted. The eyes are oval, situated on the sides of 

 the head, and composed of seven or eight moderately large lenses. The tibiie 

 are not dilated as in Articerus. 



The four genera thus form two series, of two genera each : 

 A. Eyes wanting : 



Antennae 6-jointed Claviger. 



Antennae wiih a long homogeneous club, and two short 



basal joints Adranes. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



B. E/es distinct, composed of a few aggregated lenses : 



Antennae with one short basal joint, and a long club 



having traces of transverse sutures F u s t i g e r . 



Antennae (? without basal articulation), with a broad club 



of homogeneous structure Artie erus. 



The distribution of these genera is peculiar: Claviger is found in Europe and 

 Asia ; Adranes in North America ; Fustiger in Brazil, Syria and North America ; 

 while Articerus, with the exception of a species found in Copal, is confined to 

 New Holland. 



The species of Fustiger are : 1. F. braziliensis, (Articerus braz. West- 

 wood, Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 2d ser. iii. 277, pi. xvii. f. 5,) from Brazil; 

 2. F. syriacus, {Articerus sijr. Saulcy, Ann. Ent. Soc. France, 1865, p. 15,) 

 from Syria ; and 3. A new species from Tennessee, which will soon be described 

 by Dr. Brendel, who is now occupied in studying the Pselaphidas of the United 

 States. 



Westwood mentions, in the description of the Brazilian species, and exhib- 

 its in the figure the short basal joint of the antennae, but does not allude to the 

 obsolete transverse sutures of the mass of the antennse. 



Saulcy describes the structure of the antennae very accurately, and it is 

 owing to his observation that I have detected a very short and indistinct joint 

 between the visible basal Joint of the antennae of Adranes, and the bottom of 

 the frontal foveas in which they are inserted. 



Dr. Leidy remarked that Mr. J. F. Clew, one of the proprietors of the salt 

 mine of the Island of Petite Anse, Louisiana, had that day called upon him, 

 announcing the donation to the Academy of a mass of 150 lbs. of pure rock 

 salt. Mr. Clew further informed him of an interesting fact in connection with 

 the history of primitive man. The salt mines of Petite Anse were discovered 

 during the late rebellion. A salt spring had been previously known to exist. 

 During the war, as this failed to produce the amount of salt required, a well 

 was sunk in the hope of procuring a greater supply. At the bottom of the 

 well the workmen met with a solid rock which turned out to be pure salt. 

 This is covered with about fifteen or more feet of soil, mainly composed of sand 

 and mud. A specimen of this soil haviug been submitted to Dr. Leidy, he was 

 surprised to find mingled with it grains of precious garnet and olivine. Mr. 

 Clew stated that a number of pits had been opened to reach the salt. In 

 several of the pits at the depth of ten or fifteen feet they discovered in the soil 

 bones of the Elephant, well preserved, and beneath these, within a few inches 

 of the rock salt, abundance of matting. Portions of this m itting, exhibited to 

 Dr. Leidy, were composed of a tough, flexible, split cane, and were plaited 

 diagonally. The pieces were well preserved, and evidently specimens of 

 human art. On being asked the question, Mr. Clew said he was under the 

 impression that some stone implements had also been found in a similar 

 position, but he was not certain. He further added, that at the sides of one of 

 the pits, bones of the Elephant, and beneath them pieces of matting, could yet 

 be seen, as they had been allowed to remain undisturbed. The facts were so 

 interesting in connection with these remains, and the geology of the Island of 

 Petite Anse, that Dr. L. thought a competent person should be sent there to 

 make an exploration. Mr. Clew has offered every facility to any one disposed 

 to undertake the investigation. 



May 2dth. 

 The President, Dr. Isaac Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 

 1866.] 




110 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Mr. Joseph R. Rhoads, William K. Gilbert, M. D , Mr. Samuel 

 Huston, Mr. T. Clarkson Taylor, Robert S. Kenderdine, M. D., Mr. 

 Daniel Haddock, Jr., Mr. Henry A. Dreer, Mr. Christian C. Febeger, 

 Henry Stills, M. D. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



Rev. M. R. Anderson, LL. D., President University of Rochester, 

 N. Y., and Mr. Lemuel R. Carter, of Paris Hill, Oxford Co., Maine. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Notes on Some Members of the FELDSPAR Family. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



I have been much interested for several years pafst in observing and col- 

 lecting the varieties of the Feldspar Family of Chester and Delaware Counties 

 in this State. 



Finding in many places that, where the intrusive Serpentine appears, there 

 ■were usually to be found the finest and more vitrious varieties of Feldspar, I 

 visited all such localities, and thus have brought together, perhaps, more of 

 them than any other mineralogist who has searched in these counties. My 

 object in these researches has been solely as to their external characters, con- 

 nected with the matter which gives to them color, so far as microscopical ex- 

 amination could enable me to effect it. 



Among the numerous varieties which I have brought together, I think there 

 are three which have not been before observed. One is of a compact struc- 

 ture, almost without cleavage, and of a fine green color, approaching, as 

 regards tint, to aqua-marine, and is semi-transparent. Another, which 

 usually accompanies the first, and often passes into it, as Leelite does into 

 Feldspar, has always a definite and well characterized cleavage, the surface 

 of which presents an agreeable pearly appearance, sometimes satin-like. 

 This is usually white or grayish, sometimes inclining to a pale purplish hue, 

 particularly toward the edges of the specimens, and which seem to have been 

 enveloped in Alhite. Along those edges where the purplish hue is stronger, I 

 could, in all cases, detect small thin spangles or plates, such as constitute 

 SunHone, — Aveiiturine Feldspar — with reddish or wine-color internal re- 

 flections. 



These reflections are minute, usually microscopic, and always, I believe, of 

 a hexagonal form or the modification of that form. 



For the green mineral, I propose the provisional name of Lennilite, having 

 found it only near the village of Lenni, in Delaware County. For the pearly 

 variety, I propose that of Delawareite, having first found it in Delaware 

 County, among the Serpentine rocks, between Glen Riddle and Lenni. Subse- 

 quently, I found specimens in Chester County, near to West Chester. 



The third is a variety of Feldspar which is more laminate and glassy, of a 

 dull bluish green color and semi-transparent, which has through the mass 

 usually very minute internal bright crystalline hexagonal plates giving 

 very bright reflections. This is found at Blue Hill, about two miles north of 

 Media, and is an exceedingly interesting mineral. I found a specimen very 

 similar to this, but rather more blue, some three miles southwest of West 

 Chester, which had not, however, any plates with reflections, but, with a 

 high power, numerous small, black, thin, prismatic crystals were observable. 

 For ttiis, I propose the name of Cassinite. 



It had been known for many years that SaHsto7ie proper existed in the 

 Hornblend Rocks of Chester County, near to Kennett Square. This I found 

 in sufficient quantity and perfection to institute a good examination into the 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



forms of these refleciions. Under a liigli power, I observed perfect equal- 

 sided hexagons, with nearly all possible modifications of that form, by more 

 or less unequal replacement of some of the prismatic sides ; thus, some assum- 

 ing a triangular form, some that of rhombs and rhomboids ; some of the lat- 

 ter being almost linear. These plates are sometimes imperfectly formed, the 

 boundary lines being occasionally irregular and broken, exhibiting one, two, 

 three or four sides, and sometimes no part of the sides present a right line. 

 They usually lie parallel with the principal cleavage of the Feldspar, and, 

 when the rays of light strike their bright surfaces, the reflections are exceed- 

 ingly brilliant. Under the microscope, with a bright light, it will be observed 

 that some reflections are blue, others green, purple, red and yellow. Some 

 of the specimens of Sunstone show parallel lines on the edges of the cleavages 

 parallel to the prismatic sides of the Feldspar, which are evidently occasioned 

 by the regular deposit of the layers. These are quite different from the fine 

 parallel minute striae which lie on the principal faces of the cleavage, and 

 which can only be observed with a high power. Neither of these are con- 

 stant. These spangles or plates are so thin, that I have been unable to 

 detect any perceptible thickness on their prismatic sides. These very inter- 

 esting plates in Sunstone have been known for a long time, but I have not 

 been able to find any analysis of them.* Kenngott states that they are Go- 

 thite, hydrated-per-oxid of Iron (Fe^OoHO). Sheerer says that " the Aventu- 

 rine character is owing to minute particles of Specular Iron.] I doubt this, 

 as the resplendant crystals are usually semi-transparent, reflecting various 

 colors, as mentioned above. There are in most varieties another set of de- 

 posits, which are much rarer, and present opake, black masses, usually taking 

 the same hexagonal form and its modifications, but often without any regular 

 form. These may be of the same metallic substance in a different state of 

 oxidation, not transmitting the rays of light. 



Fine specimens of Moonstone are found in Alhite, in Delaware County, west 

 of Media, but this species of Feldspar does not give out its beautiful blue 

 color by reflection from any foreign body, but by the absorption of all the rays 

 of light but blue, and this owing to some arrangement of its atoms not yet 

 understood. 



In the examination of various Feldspar sviiih. high power of the microscope, 

 I found in nearly every one which was not entirely white, that more or less 

 foreign matter in a crystallized state, was included in their composition. In 

 the green compact variety which I have described above, and proposed to call 

 Lennilite, there was nothing detected, nor was there in the ordinary green 

 Feldspar of Mineral Hill, near Media, except that in the latter locality there 

 have been specimens found of a glassy structure, and with clear double 

 cleavages, in which reddish spots were interspersed, which spots were always 

 colored by the presence of these crystalline plates, having beautiful bright 

 reflections, and of the usual hexagonal form. 



I ought to mention here, in connection with these beautiful brilliant plates 

 in Sunstone, that Prof. Rood, of Columbia College, New York, some time 

 since, made a " Micro-Stereograph " of a thin plate of Sunstone from Arendal, 

 Norway. In this he succeeded admirably in displaying these numerous modi- 

 fi(*.tions of the crystals, which were enlarged and photographed on paper ; 

 thus bringing those interesting forms with great perfection to the recognition 

 of the unaided eye. 



I proceed now to the results of my microscopical examinations of various 

 Feldspars, in which I found more or less of these minute crystalline forms. 



* Aventiirine Q^iartz is also called Sunstone, s.nd is considered of some value as a stone of luxury, 

 but it has not reflections as brilliant as those of Feldspar ; nor are they, su far as I bnve been able 

 to observe, crystal lizod plates, but their irregular deposits are of the same brown and led color, 

 and they may be Gothite. 



tl>ana's Mineralogy. 



1866.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In tbe dark, nearly black Labradorite of the Adirondao Mountains, there 

 were only to be found dark, irregular, unshaped spots. 



In the nearly black opalescent portions of Labradorite from Warwick, 

 Orange County, N. Y., were very minute imperfect black crystals, while 

 scattered throughout there are larger transparent, imperfect forms of irregular 

 crystals, which have the appearance of being hollow points. 



A rolled fragment of pale purple Feldspar from Easton, Pa., contained 

 hexagonal plates, but generally these plates were found to be irregular and 

 broken. 



A Black Feldspar found near West-Chester — a small fragment nearly an 

 inch square — was found to possess very thin prismatic black crystals, lying 

 in various directions, but principally in one direction. There were also 

 scattered throughout a few very black spots, some of which were disposed to 

 take the hexagonal form. 



Labradorite from Scotland, with a fine colored surface, presented minute 

 reflections. Under a high power, a few brown hexagonal plates were 

 observed, with very numerous black, attenuated, prismatic crystals, and 

 some short thick ones. 



A bluish lead-colored glassy Feldspar, from near West-Chester, presented 

 acicular black lines all in the same direction. These were usually somewhat 

 long, much more so than I have observed in any other specimens which I 

 have examined. Occasionally an opake, black, rhombic crystal was 

 observed. 



A dark variety from Lenni, passing into Leelite, possesses very minute 

 black, attenuated prismatic crystals. 



Fetid Feldspar (Necronite ?) from the Vanarsdale Quarry in Bucks County, 

 Pa., has microscopic black crystals, imperfectly formed, but with a tendency 

 to hexagonal form. 



A Salmon-colored Feldspar, from near Lenni, was found to possess many 

 elongate black rhomboids, and some few imperfect reddibh hexagonal plates. 

 One of the rhomboids is partly black and partly red, showing that the crystals 

 of both colors are of the same substance. 



A specimen of a darker salmon color, found by Mr. John Cassin, many 

 years since, at the old Molybdena Mine, near Chester, Pa., has the appearance 

 of Perthite, but there were no reflections to be observed in it, only presenting, 

 occasionally, black masses. The deep color of this Feldspar arises from the 

 close approximation of irregular opaque brownish masses. 



A very pearly specimen of Delawareite found near West-Chester, con- 

 tained rather large reddish plates and many opake black crystals, some elon- 

 gate, others triangular, hexagonal, &c. 



Among the pearly specimens of Delawareite from Lenni is a fine purplish 

 one with blood-red crystals, which are much larger than usual, and one is 

 much longer and narrower than usual. In one of the pieces I observed a 

 black curved object which presented a serrated side, reminding one of the 

 notches of a Graptolite. It is probably Tourmaline. 



The remarkable flue Sunstone obtained by Mr. Jeff"eris and myself in Chester 

 County, Pa., present under a high power a great number and variety of bril- 

 liant red crystals of a hexagonal form, and of every modification of this figurg. 

 The reflections of the surface of these crystals give beautiful colors. Occasion- 

 ally in these specimens where the plates are numerous and close, an area 

 may be observed without any color, being clear, but retaining the hexagonal 

 form and its modifications, the area being surrounded by reflections of red, 

 blue, &c. 



In the very peculiar greenish blue, lamellar Feldspar, from Blue Hill, two 

 miles north-west of Media, Delaware Co., I found very numerous, small reflec- 

 tions of the usual modifications of the hexagon. This is a very pure and glassy 

 species, and is of rare occurrence. It is found in the Serpentine rocks, and 

 presents an entirely different appearance from Sunstone proper, which is found 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



in the Hornhlend rocks of Chester Countj, the texture of the Feldspar and the 

 reflecting plates being peculiar. I propose for it the provisional name of Cas- 

 sinite, Mr. John Cassin having first called my attention to this glassy, bluish- 

 green Feldspar. The possession of the reflecting plates had not been observed 

 until I had discovered it by an examination with the microscope, but which 

 when pointed out may be seen by the naked eye. 



A gray satin-like specimen of Delawareite exhibited no red reflections, but , 

 there were some small, black, microscopic crystals chiefly of very elongate ^ 

 hexagons ; some were irregular and not long. 



A green and red mottled Feldspar from Mineral Hill, near Media, presented 

 reddish groups of reflections here and there throughout the mass. Under a 

 high power these plates were observed to be of the usual modified forms of 

 the hexagon, that of the rhomboid prevailing while the hexagonal form itself 

 was found only in rarer instances. The color of these plates varied from a 

 blood red to a pale wine red, and are very small and numerous. This is a 

 remarkably beautiful mineral and is I believe very rarely now found. I have 

 tipund a single specimen and the only other specimens I have seen, were 

 found some thirty years since. 



In the beautiful Sunstone of Chester County, near Kennett Square, I found 

 many reflecting plates of various shades of red. These plates are very numer- 

 ous and usually elongate rhomboids, but the hexagonal form and all its modi-- 

 ficatioiis are found of various sizes when examined with a high power. There 

 were observed also many black irregular spots, and some of these had irregu- 

 lar hexagonal margins. Interspersed throughout could be seen very numer- 

 ous short, black, attenuate, prismatic forms, much more numerous and ap* 

 proximate to each other than was the case with the reflecting plates. 



The fine Sunstone of Arend'al, Norway, presents very remarkable reflections- 

 of not very minute plates. The Feldspar is clear and pure, and these reflec- 

 tions numerous and very brilliant. The hexagonal form and its modifications 

 are very perfect, and the color pure and translucent, varying from dark red> 

 to light wine color. Many of the rhomboids are very elongate. Occasionally 

 opake black plates were observed, and the same may be said of other Sun- 

 stones generally. 



Chesterlite, from Chester County Poor House, quite to my surprise, presented , 

 here and there hexagonal plates. In one specimen I detected a remarkably, 

 fine hexagon of a deep red color. 



Perthite, from Perth, Canada West, is a very dark salmon-colored variety 

 of Sunstone. and I found in it the same hexagonal form and its modifications^ 

 but the plates were darker in color. There were mixed with these some 

 opake black ones, similar in density and form to those which are found in 

 the Sunstone of Chester County. 



In Peristerite, from the same locality, I found very numerous minute black, 

 crystals, generally elongate rhomboids, very like, if not tbe same with, com- 

 mon Labradorite, to which it seems to be very nearly allied. 



Observations on CHAEIETES and some related Genera, in regard to their Sys- 

 tematic Position; with an appended description of some New Species. 



BY DR. CARL ROMINGER. 



Chaetetes has, by its tubular structure and the transverse diaphragms, di-- 

 viding the tubes, a strong resemblance to Favosites, and was for this reason 

 generally considered to be a member of the Favositoid family. 



In the following pages I shall try to prove this to be an error, and to de- 

 monstrate its immediate connection with forms which are considered to be, 

 Bryozoa. 



It has been asserted that transverse diaphragms have never been observed! 



1866.] 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF TilE ACADEMY OP 



in the tubules of any Bryozoon, (Milne Edwards et. H. Arch, du Museum, torn. 

 V. p. 278,) but some Jurassic specimens of Ileteropora in ray possession ex- 

 hibit with the utmost distinctness their tubules divided by horizontal dia- 

 l»hragms. It would be difficult to distinjijuish a vertical section of them, 

 from a similar section of a Chaetetes, if the tube-walls of the first were not 

 perforated by densely crowded, very minute pores, while the walls of a Chae- 

 tetes are imperforate. 



Fisher, the author of the genus, informs us that the tubes of Chaetetes 

 multiply by division, while other observers, in specimens believed to be 

 ('haetetes, could only see a multiplication of tubes by lateral gemmation, and 

 therefore, to avoid the difficulty, created the genera Stenopora and Monticu- 

 lipora, for these specimens. Milne Edwards is, to my knowledge, the only one 

 to affirm Fisher's observation to be true, (British Fossil Corals, p. 264,) but he 

 does not specially designate the species on which he made his observations, 

 and subsequently places all the species he formerly named Chaetetes, under 

 the genus Monticulipora. 



I know of only one fossil resembling Chaetetes, in which the tubes are 

 multiplied by division ; this is the genus Tetradium, whose tubes regularly di- 

 vide into four parts, but there is no reason to suppose this to have been the 

 type for Fisher's genus Chaetetes, nor seems it probable that Milne Edwards 

 had it under consideration. The structure of Chaetetes is considered to be 

 exclusively tubular. 



If we observe the different forms of Chaetetes, we will find some with con- 

 tiguous polygonal orifices, and thin intervening walls. Others we will see 

 with the tube mouths rounded, only partially contiguous, and with a num- 

 ber of smaller angular openings dispersed between them. In still others, 

 the orifices are circular, not in contiguity, and surrounded on all sides by 

 smaller angular openings. A vertical section through these different kinds 

 will, at first sight, not exhibit a corresponding variety of appearance ; we 

 find the whole corallum to be an aggregation of tubules, which are divided 

 by transverse diaphragms; a closer examination, however, will reveal to us, 

 in the last mentioned forms, two sorts of tubules : larger ones, more or less 

 circular in the cross-section, with straight diaphragms at variable, sometimes 

 quite remote distances ; and smaller ones, which are angular, with more closely 

 approximated diaphragms ; but the different tube segments, cut off by the di- 

 aphragms, are not always so regular as the nature of a tube would require it ; 

 some are projecting over the others, and joining with the adjacent segments 

 in zigzag lines, which is a sure evidence that we have no real tubules before 

 '«s, but merely vertical rows of independent cells, which being crowded in 

 between tubes, assumed themselves the shape of tubules. 



An interesting family-mark, common to Chaetetes, and to a number of 

 other genera related to it, are the peculiar maculae noticeable on their sur- 

 face. In specimens of prevalently tubular structure, these maculae are con- 

 stituted by aggregations of larger tubes than the others ; at the same time we 

 see the surface at these places frequently elevated into small monticules. In 

 other specimens, where the intertubular cell-mass is well developed, these 

 maculae are contrasting with the other surface by their entirely cellulose 

 structure, and it is not uncommon to see these spots depressed, instead of 

 being elevated. 



The orifices of Chaetetes are generally open, or exhibit some distance be- 

 low the surface their diaphragms, which appear to be perfect. It is, however, 

 not rare to find specimens in which the tubules are closed by opercula with a 

 central opening. In specimens of Chaetetes rugosus and ramosus, from the 

 blue limestone of Cincinnati, a part of the surface frequently has closed tub- 

 ules ; their appearance assumes hereby an entirely different character, which 

 reminds one greatly of the ramulets of Melicertites from the Oolite forma- 

 »tiou, Alao of Cha^€t€s/rondo3Us, I have some specimens exhibiting opercula. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



In the first two species the opercula are slightly convex, in the latter, con- 

 cave, and with an excentric opening. 



Several species are decorated with spinules, rising from the margins of the 

 tube orifices, and from the interstitial spaces. One of these, which attracted 

 the attention of Milne Edwards, induced him to create for it the genus De- 

 kayia. This spinulosity is not a confluent character, and has, in my estima- 

 tion, no more importance than the hairs of a plant have, in regard to its gene- 

 ric position. 



The so called Dekayia aspera occurs in the blue limestone of Ohio and 

 Indiana, in which several other spinulose forms are found. One of them 

 grows in small ramulets, with somewhat oblique, very minute orifices ; some 

 of its specimens are entirely smooth, without showing any signs of detrition ; 

 in others the surface is raised in scarcely perceptible, obtuse nodules ; and 

 finally, some are found with a perfectly hirsute surface. Also some speci- 

 mens corresponding with McCoys NebuUpora lens, are decorated with quite 

 prominent spinules ; likewise some larger hemispherical masses, considered to 

 be Ch. petropoliianus, and a species similar to Chaetetes frondosus. 



From the shales of the Hamilton group of New York and Michigan, I know 

 also several species of spinulose Chaetetes forms. 



The stellate form of orifices, which is least expected to be seen in Chaetetes 

 or in a Bryozoon, nevertheless is represented in some species of the Chaete- 

 tes family. 



A few specimens found at Cincinnati, which in all particulars agree with 

 Chaetetes frondosus have from three to five longitudinal ridges projecting into 

 their tube cavities, by which the orifices acquire a floriform shape. In other 

 specimens of the same species the orifices are round, without any traces of 

 stellate character; even in the mentioned specimens, not all orifices are stel- 

 late. The stellate orifices of Callopora florida are made known by Hall ; sev- 

 eral other species of it are of the same character, and also in the genus Fis- 

 tulipora we will meet with floriform orifices. 



The question now is, have we to consider this stellate character as a seri- 

 ous objection to the bryozoic nature of Chaetetes and the allied genera? 



I think not, for two reasons : 1. This radiate structure cannot be the ex- 

 ponent of a character which is essential to these organic beings, or it would 

 be invariably developed. 2. These projecting lamella? are not the equivalent 

 of the radial organs in corals. Their number is not constant enough for that, 

 and their distribution indicates frequently an unsymmetric bilateral, and not 

 a radial plan. In some species there are only two such projections on one 

 side of the tubes, while the other side is smooth ; in others, with a larger 

 number of lamellar projections, they generally form two opposite groups, 

 and are rarely found disposed at equal distances around the circumference. 



The relations between Chaetetes and some acknowledged bryozoic forms of 

 the paleozoic era are so great, that if radial structure should be considered 

 incompatible with the polyparium of a Bryozoon, I would rather remove 

 the whole assemblage from the bryozoa, than to separate Chaetetes and some 

 others from them. 



In the blue limestone of Madison and Richmond, Ind., a well marked form 

 of Chaetetes is found in abundance, which I do not see described. I propose 

 for it the name Chaetetes quadratus. 



It grows in coarse ramifications, with an even or slightly monticulose sur- 

 face. Tube orifices vary in size in different specimens from one -fourth to 

 one-third of a millimeter ; those on the maculae are somewhat larger ; they 

 are contiguous, polygonal or quadrate, separated by thin walls. Intertubular 

 cells entirely wanting. 



The quadrate tube form is particularly obvious on the terminal surface of 

 branches, or on transverse sections. On the sides of the branches the quad- 

 rate tube form gives the surface a fanciful appearance, which I cannot bet- 



1866.] 




116 rROOEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ter explain than by comparing it with certain decorations of watch cases, con- 

 sisting of concentric circle lines crossing each other. Chaetctes pavonia, with 

 the synonyme Ply lodictr/a pavonia D'Orbigny, is described by Milne Edwards 

 amongst the Chaetetes forms of the Cincinnati limestone. 



This species has indeed a great resemblance to the group to which Ptylo- 

 dictya belongs. It grows in double, thin laminae, separable in two folia, 

 which have on the inner side a dermatic concentrically wrinkled and striated 

 crust, exactly similar to the separated leaves of Ptylodictya. The tubes be- 

 gin with prostrate, thin walled ends, and become rectangular to the surface, 

 by abruptly bending upwards ; the erect part of them exhibits very thick 

 walls. The orifices are contiguous, slightly dilated, and arranged in undu- 

 lating rows, which, crossing each other under oblique angles, make their 

 outlines more or less regularly rhomboidal. The outlines of the single tubes, 

 however, are polygonal, and may be plainly distinguished in the centre of the 

 massive interstitial spaces. Diameter of tubes one-sixth of a millimeter, 

 somewhat larger on the monticules, which are little elevated and are dissemi- 

 nated over the surface at a distance of three or four millimeters. No dia- 

 phragms observed. Intertubular cells wanting. 



This species would be entirely in correspondence with the genus Phseno- 

 pora of Hall, but the entire absence of intertubular cell-mass, which is 

 always, to some extent, developed in the species of Phaonopora, is a difference 

 of some importance, which, however, will be diminished, after we have seen 

 in Chaetetes species with abundant intertubular cell-mass, and other species 

 composed of tubules alone, with all intermediate forms placed between 

 them. It is also to be noticed, that all the specimens of Chaetetes pavonia 

 which I have seen, appear to be the terminal explanate ends of the fronds, 

 while at the basal ends the cellulose tissue may be developed to some degree. 

 This is decidedly the case in a small ensiform bryozoon of very similar 

 structure, and occurring in the same association. The pointed basal ends of 

 these specimens have a large proportion of cell- mass entering into their 

 structure, while the upper portions are almost exclusively tubulose. 



Chaetetes decipiens, nov. spec. 



Occurs in association with Ch. pavonia, to which it is so surprisingly simi- 

 lar that, even for an experienced eye, it becomes almost impossible to dis- 

 tinguish the two species without the help of a lens. 



It grows in entirely similar thin double leaves ; the surface is covered with 

 the same sort of monticules, composed of larger tubules ; the orifices are simi- 

 lar in size and distribution, but a closer examination will reveal sufficient 

 constant differences between the two. 



The latter species has an abundant cell-niass interposed between the tu- 

 bules ; its tube-walls are thin, with not dilated and not contiguous orifices ; 

 the two leaves composing the laminae are not so clearly defined, and not sep- 

 arable, and on vertical sections the vesiculous cell- rows interposed between 

 the tubules, which themselves are also sometimes septate, will distinguish it 

 at once. 



The thick tube-walls in the one, and the intertubular cell-mass in the other, 

 will produce on the naked eye a similar impression, which disappears under 

 the magnifier. 



This species has likewise much similarity with Ch. frondosus, but it is more 

 delicate in all respects, and in Ch. frondo&us the intertubular tissue is consid- 

 erably less developed, its tubules being usually in immediate contiguity. 



The genus Callopora of Hall, comes so near to Chaetetes that it may be well 

 characterized at once, by saying it is a Chaetetes with abundantly developed 

 intertubular cells. Chaetetes Fletcheri, (Milne Edw.) for instance, is in all par- 

 ticulars a Callopora. 



The opercula, described by Hall in Callopora elegantula, are of the same 

 general form as in Chaetetes, but a peculiarity of them is, some five or six 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 117 



elevated ridges, radiating on the surface of the opercula, from the margin of 

 the central opening to the outer circumference. In a speciesof Fistulipora, 

 subsequently to be described, I found opercules of exactly the same struc- 

 ture. Also some species of Callopora, with a spinulose surface, are made known 

 by Hall, which exhibit no essential difference from the spinulose species of 

 Chaetetes. 



The floriform orifices of Callopora florida^ Hall, and laminata, Hall, have 

 been occasionally mentioned before. The same stellate character of the ori- 

 fices is developed in a species from the carboniferous limestone of La Grange, 

 Missouri, (Keokuk Limestone.) 



Callopora missouriensis nov, spec. 



From an incrusting basal expansion branching nodose stems grow up. 

 Diameter of stems four or five millim., orifices one- eighth of a millim. wide, 

 distant from two to four of their own diameters. Form of the orifices some- 

 times only slightly sinuose, but in some finely preserved specimens, having 

 the form of a five-rayed star, with a spinula on each of the inward project- 

 ing angles. 



The intermediate spaces are filled with open angular cells, much smaller 

 than the tubules. In vertical sections the tubes do not exhibit any dia- 

 phragms ; the intertubular cell mass forms very regular vertical rows, having 

 the appearance of septate tubules. 



The genus Trematopora Hall, naturally succeeds Callopora. The principal 

 differences from the latter genus are the elevated rims of its tube orifices, and 

 the generally closed interstitial cells, which are less similar to tubules than 

 in Chaetetes, and show decidedly their vesiculous nature. The tube dia- 

 phragms are not often developed, but there is no difficulty to find specimens 

 in which their existence can be demonstrated. 



Not all species united by Hall in the genus Trematopora properly belong 

 there ; for instance, Trematopora sparsa, striata, and others. On the other 

 side, I think several species ought to be united with it, which are placed in 

 other genera; as Ceramopora foliacea, Diamesopora dichotoma, etc. 



McCoy's species of Fistulipora seems to have exactly the same structure with 

 Trematopora, but McCoy had much less correct ideas of the affinities of his 

 genus than Hall had; the latter expressly states the similarity of Callopora 

 and Trematopora with the Bryozoa, and was only prevented from giving them 

 their proper place by the existing prejudice, that the tubules of Bryozoa 

 never have any diaphragms. 



1 take Trematopora and Fistulipora as being identical, and will use the 

 name Fistulipora in a more extended sense, applying it to all the species 

 which agree with it in anatomical structure and general surface characters, 

 without to inquire specially at this place, how far a division into some sub- '^ 



genera, would be practicable. 



Fistulipora is represented by a considerable number of species, during the 

 whole paleozoic era. A striking feature of nearly all its species are super- 

 ficial maculae, analogous to those of Chaetetes ; they are of exclusively cellu- 

 lose structure, and have frequently a subregular stellate form. 



A fair representation of these macula) is given (Arch, du Mus. Tom. v. Tab. 

 20, f. 5,) in the figure of Chaetetes Torubise, which itself is, to all appearance.*?, 

 a Fistulipora. 



The projecting tube margins of Fistulipora are in most of its species 

 oblique to the surface, although the tubes themselves have generally a rec- 

 tangular position to it, excepting the smaller ramose forms, and the earlier 

 stadia of growth in laminar expansions, where the tubules are prostrate in 

 the beginning, but soon elevate themselves under an abrupt angle and be- 

 come rectangular. 



The tube orifices are generally circular, or oval, but sometimes sinuate, or 

 even stellate, like those described in Chaetetes and Callopora. Also opercu- 



1866.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OT THE ACADEMY OP 



la, of similar strncturo to those of the former genera, are sometimes noticed 

 in specimens of Fistulipora. The central opening appears to have been closed 

 in some of the opercula by a subscqnent solid deposition ; we find, at least in 

 hII the perfect opercula, the central portion forming an offset from the sur- 

 rounding marginal part. 



Fistulipora is quite polymorphous ; we find its species incrusting, and in 

 free expansions, with orifices on one side only, or in double leaves, with ori- 

 fices on both sides ; they grow in hollow stems, or in strumose cystical form, 

 or in solid ramifications, or in undefined large masses. 



One, or several, of these forms are generally significant for a certain species, 

 but I think, in the systematic arrangement of the Bryozoa, too much weight 

 has been given to their external form and to the manner in which they grow. 



For further elucidation of my general remarks, I will append the descrip- 

 tion of a number of species of Fistulipora which are new, or whose anatomy 

 was not fulli/ recognized before. 



Hellipora (Constellaria) antheloidea. 



Is the oldest and at the same time the most marked form of Fistulipora. 



Its circular tubules with projecting rims, the vesiculous interstitial cell- 

 mass, the monticulose macuhe with a star-like depressed cellulose centre, re- 

 present, in ideal perfection, the principal characters of the genus. 



In this place I take occasion to mention a lower Silurian fossil, whose nature 

 is only imperfectly known, and which resembles in its structure Fistuli- 

 pora. 

 Stromatocebium bugosdm Hall. 



By its external appearance, it has been generally confused with Stromato- 

 pora, but this latter has a widely different structure and belongs to the Petro- 

 spongiae. 



Stroinatocerium rugosum grows in large subglobose masses with an undula- 

 ted monticulose surface. Vertical sections show a series of superimposed 

 laminae, on which the naked eye can scarcely recognise organized structure ; 

 under the magnifier we find it composed of small, subparallel, simple tubules, 

 and of a comparatively coarse vesiculous cell-mass surrounding the tubules. 

 These ccll-vesicules are convex above, concave below, spread out in horizontal 

 layers, and not in vertical rows ; the size of the vesicules is very unequal and 

 varies from a half to one millimeter in the horizontal direction, about half as 

 much in the vertical sense. 



Diameter of tubules one-sixth of a millimeter ; distance between each other 

 about half a millimeter. 



The more delicate surface characters cannot be recognized, on account of 

 the unfavorable state of preservation of the specimens. 



According to Hall, it is found in the Black River limestone. My specimens 

 are from Madison, Ind., where it occurs in association with Favistelia stellata, 

 in the upper strata of the Hudson River group formation. Some of the best 

 specimens, however, I found in the drift deposits of Michigan. 



The Clinton group, and, in particular, the Niagara group, contain a good 

 many species of Fistulipora structure — the Trematoporas of Hall. 



In regard to a few of them, I have to make some remarks. 



Trernatopora tubulosa of the Clinton group, and Diamesopora dichotoma of the 

 Niagara group, combine exactly the same internal structure with their 

 external similarity of form. 



The inner face of their hollow stems is covered by a delicately-wrinkled 

 dermatic crust. Their tubules are arranged in oblique rows, becoming some- 

 what irregular by the slightly-developed maculae. The basal portions of 

 the tubules are prostrate, and in immediate contiguity; but, by abruptly 

 bending up to the surface, leave a more or less considerable space between 

 the erected tube ends, which is filled out by cellulose tissue. This cell-mass 

 is generally found homogeneous, and allows no discrimination of cells. A 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. llt> 



few specimens, however, may always be found which exhibit with sufficient 

 distinctness the outlines of the tissue vesicules. 



Trematopora tuhulosa could, for this reason, with propriety, be placed under 

 the genus Diamesopora ; but Diamesopora itself, again, so much resembles 

 Trematopora ossiolaia, that I would rather see the genus Diamesopora given 

 up, by amalgamating its only representative with Trem^ltopora. 



The species named by Hall, Ceramopora foUacea^ is, in all respects, corres- 

 pondent with the other Trematoporas. It grows in double leaves, which may 

 be separated in two folia, with a dermatic crust on the interior face of the 

 two leaves. Its tubules are, as in the former species, prostrate, and make an 

 abrupt bend to the surface; the inter-tubular cell-mass exhibits its structure 

 with the greatest distinctness. 



Diameter of tubules one-sixth of a millimeter. From Ceramopora imbricata, 

 the type of the genus, it differs essentially. More natural would have been 

 its combination with Rhinopora verrucosa^ which has the structure of Fistuli- 

 pora, and the exterior form in common with it. 



In Rhinopora verrucosa^ the maculae are represented by elevated, branching 

 and anastomosing ridges, which are lined with tube orifices of somewhat 

 larger size. 



FiSTDLIPORA NEGLECTA nOV. SpCC. 



Convex, undulating, laminar expansions of a few millimeters thickness, 

 wiih a wrinkled epitheca below. Tubules one-fourth to one-third of a milli- 

 meter wide, with quite projecting, oblique, oval orifices, forming a sharp lip 

 on the outer side, and gradually lost in the general surface on the inner side. 

 They are arranged in closely-set subregular rows, which are interrupted by 

 small, little conspicuous maculae. 



Locality. Waldron, Ind , and Rochester, N. Y , in the shales of the Niagara 

 group. 



FisTULiPORA Halli nov. spec. 



Undulated, free or incrusting expansions, with a wrinkled epitheca below. 



Tubules one-sixth of a millimeter wide, orifices oval, with an abruptly- 

 projecting lip on the outer side, and arranged in subregular rows, which 

 keep a distance of about one tube diameter. Maculae quite conspicuous, 

 sometimes slightly elevated, of irregular substellate form. 



This specie:^ has much resemblance to Ceramopora foliacea^ but it does not 

 grow in double leaves as the latter. 



Locality. AValdron, Ind., Rochester and Lockport, in the shales of the 

 Niagara group. 



In the upper strata of the Helderberg group, and in the Hamilton group, 

 Fistulipora is represented by numerous species. The smaller ramose forms, 

 which are so frequently met with in the Niagara group, are rarely seen in 

 this horizon; larger laminar expansions, or massive tuberoso-globose forms,, 

 prevail here. 



Fistulipora lunata nov. spec. 



It grows in tortuous thick laminae, with a wrinkled epithecal crust below, 

 or more frequently in distorted, very irregular masses, consisting of several 

 laminae, which are grown together with their epithecal sides. The tubules 

 are not angular to the surface, with prostrate basal ends as usual. Size of 

 tubules one-fourth of a millimeter. Orifices with moderately-elevated mar- 

 gins, rotundato-semilunar, with two dent-like projections into the tube 

 cavity at the concave or flattened side, which continue as longitudinal ridges 

 down the cavity of the tubes. Distribution of orifices without any apparent 

 order; distance a little over their own diameter. Tube diaphragms some- 

 times developed, frequently wanting. 



Intertubular tissue coarse-celled ; cells arranged in subregular vertical 

 rows. 



1866.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Surface raised in small rounded monticules, with cellulose maculae on the 

 Tcrtex ; distance from the centre of one monticule to the other about four or 

 five millimeters. 



Locality. It is quite common in the limestones of Sandusky, Columbus, 

 and other places, (upper Helderberg group.) 



FrsTDLiPORA iiBLios nov. spec. 



A thin laminar expansion encrusting the stem of EridophylJum colligatum. 

 (Heliopliyllum, Dillings.) 



Orifices pnstulose, one-sixth of a millimeter wide, distant from each other 

 about two or three tube diameters. Maculae large, depressed in the centre, 

 from which irradiate depressed cellulose spaces, giving the surface an orna- 

 mental appearance, very similar to Hellipora antheloidea. 



Drift specimen belonging to the corniferous limestone. 



FiSTULIPOBA STELLIPBRA nOV. SpCC. 



Double leaves separable in two folia ; surface raised in low monticules, 

 distant about four millimeters from one centre to another. 



Orifices linguiform or irregularly oval, one fourth of a millimeter wide in 

 the larger diameter, surrounded by an elevated rim. A few larger and more 

 projecting orifices are generally noticed on ihe monticules, from the summits 

 of which narrow, cellulose, bifurcating spaces irradiate. In places to which 

 these cellulose radii do not extend, the orifices are closely approximated. 



Locality. Thunder Bay, Lake Huron, in the shales of the Hamilton group. 



FiSTULIPORA SULCATA nOV. Sp. 



Thin simple laminae, with an epitheca below. Orifices one-fourth of a 

 millimeter wide, irregularly linguiform, surrounded by an elevated margin, 

 closely approximated and disposed without any apparent order. Macula* 

 having the form of elongate narrow fovese, which send out some radiating 

 furrows. 



Locality. Partridge Point, Thunder Bay, Michigan, in the shales of the 

 Hamilton group. 



FiSTULIPORA MINDTA nOV. Sp. 



Undulated laminae, only half a millimeter thick, with an epitheca on the 

 lower side, and raised in low rounded monticules on the upper face. 



Tubules one-eighth of a millimeter wide, irregularly oval, distant from 

 each other somewhat more than one tube diameter. Maculae little con- 

 spicuous, on account of the minuteness of the fronds. 



Occurs with the former at Partridge Point. 



FiSTULIPORA ACBRVULOSA UOV. SpCC. 



Large undulated expansions, from a few millimeters to one centimetre 

 thick, and with an epithecal crust on the lower side. 



Surface elevated in monticules of about five millimeters distance. Tubules 

 one-fourth to one-third of a millimeter; of somewhat larger size on the 

 monticules. 



Cellulose maculae only feebly developed. 



Orifices rotundate, forming a prominent lip on the exterior side, equally 

 distributed over the surface, holding a distance of a little more than their 

 own diameter. Tube diaphragms distant, frequently wanting. Opercula with 

 a central opening, sometimes developed. Intertubular tissue formed as 

 usual by vertical rows of vesicules. 



Locality. Partridge Point, with the former species 



FiSTULIPORA SPINULIFERA UOV, spCC. 



Grows in branches of two or three centimetres thickness, or also in thick 

 undulated expansions. 



Surface monticulose, distance from one monticule to the other three or 

 four millimeters, summits of monticules cellulose. Tubules one-fifth of a 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



millimeter wide. Surface finely spinulose or granulose, exhibiting seemingly 

 dilated polygonal orifices, but actually it is the luxuriant spinulose inter- 

 tubular cell mass which forms the polygenes, and obscures the tube mouths 

 within its meshes. Occurs with the former species. 



FiSTULIPORA ErIENSIS UOV. Sp. 



Undulated and distorted laminar expansions one or several millimeters 

 thick, with a wrinkled epitheca below. 



Surface spinuloso-granulose, raised in irregular low monticules, with a 

 cellulose macula on the summit. 



Intertubular spaces more or less elevated above the small projecting lips 

 of the tube orifices, making the surface appear as if covered by expanded 

 polygonal openings, as in the former species. Tubules one-fifth to one- 

 fourth of a millimeter wide. 



This species has much resemblance to Fistulipora spinuUfera, but it does not 

 grow in massive ramifications ; its laminar expansions are more delicate, 

 while, on the contrary, its surface has a coarser texture. 



Locality. Shore of Lake Erie, near Hamburg. Shales of the Hamilton 

 group. 



FiSTDLIPORA UTRICULUS nOV. SpCC. 



Strumose branching utricules, or irregular cysts, with a dermatic crust 

 covering the inner cavity. Large cellulose maculae dispersed over the sur- 

 face. Tubules one-sixth of a millimeter wide. Intertubular spaces and 

 maculae spinuloso-granulose. Orifices generally surrounded by a shallow 

 depression, from which the tube margin projects under the form of a sharp 

 lip. Distance of orifices about one tube diameter, excepting the cellulose 

 maculae. The three last-mentioned species are very similar to each other, 

 but, aside of the different manner of growth, each one has some constant 

 smaller peculiarities, which convince me of their specific difference. 



Locality. Widder, C. W., in the upper strata of the Hamilton group. 



Fistulipora crassa nov. sp. 



Digitato-ramose, or undulated explanate masses, attached to other bodies or 

 partially free, with a concentrically-wrinkled epitheca on the lower side. 

 Surface raised in obtuse monticules, with more or less extended cellulose 

 maculae on the summits. 



Tubules one-third to nearly one-half a millimeter wide, distant from each 

 other one or a little more than one tube diameter, excepting the before-men- 

 tioned maculae. 



Orifices rotundate, slightly sinuate, surrounded by an unequally-elevated 

 margin, which exhibits sometimes two dent-like projections into the tube 

 cavity. 



Tube diaphragms distant, or not developed. Intertubular tissue coarse. 

 Opercula of usual form, sometimes noticeable. 



Locality. Widder, C. W., in the lower strata of the Hamilton group, and in 

 the drift deposits of Michigan. 



Fistulipora elegans nov. spec. 



Thin laminae, with a concentrically-wrinkled epitheca below. 



Tubules one-third of a millimeter wide, prostrate at the base, rectangular 

 to the surface at the upper end. Orifices perfectly circular, with an equally- 

 projecting, crenulated rim distributed over the surface at a distance of about 

 one tube diameter, excepting the cellulose macula, which, however, are not 

 very conspicuous. Opercules very frequently preserved, flat, with a central 

 opening, which in some is closed by a subsequently deposited globular solid 

 stopper. In a few specimens, I see six elevated ridges radiate from the inner 

 opening to the outer circumference, exactly as in the opercules of Callopora 

 elegans. Intertubular cell-mass coarse, with angular cells as large as the 



1866.] 




122 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



tubules. In some specimens, which are splendidly preserved, I see the roof 

 of every interstitial cell perforated by a minute opening. 



Locality. Shore of Lake Erie, Hamburg. Widder, G. W., in the Hamilton 

 group. 



The carboniferous limestone encloses, likewise, a number of interesting 

 representatives of the genus. 



FiSTULiPORA Spekgknensis nov. sp. 



Undulated convexo-concave laminae, or strumose utricules and cyst, with 

 an epitheca on the inner or inferior side Tubules one-third of a millimeter 

 wide, distant less than their own diameter. Orifices circular, surrounded by 

 an elevated rim, which projects more on the outer side. Many specimens 

 have no elevated tube margins, and exhibit interstitial spaces with open cells ; 

 btit this is only owing to an imperfect state of preservation, or the effect of 

 detrition. Surface raised in obtuse unequal monticules, with cellulose 

 maculae in the centre. 



Locality. Spergen Hill, Ind. "Warsaw Limestone. 



FiSTDLIPORA FLABELLUM. 



It is fixed to the ground by a prevalently-cellulose, thick basal expansion, 

 consisting of concentrically superimposed layers. From this base, elevates 

 itself a compressed, more or less elongated stem, which finally expands in a 

 thin fan-like double leaf, fissible in two folia, with a dermatic crust on the 

 inner face of each. This division in two laminae goes through the whole 

 stem, to the bottom of the basal attachment. 



Tubules prostrate at first, and then bending rectangular to the surface. 

 Width one-fifth to one-fourth of a millimeter. Distance of tubules more 

 than one tube diameter, arranged in subregular rows, which are much inter- 

 rupted by large, not elevated cellulose maculae. No diaphragms observed. 

 Orifices rounded or obtusely triangular, with a projecting lip, but more fre- 

 quently not elevated above the surface, and without a lip. Intertubular 

 spaces, if in good preservation, decorated with fine flexuose anastomosing 

 striae. Cell tissue usually appearing solid homogeneous, but in some better 

 preserved specimens, of distinctly vesiculous structure, as in other Fistuli- 

 poras. In some specimens, the orifices are closed by slightly depressed 

 opercula with a small opening. 



Ijocality. Spergen Hill. Warsaw Limestone. 



This species shows, by its mode of growth, a strong affinity to the group, 

 which includes Ptylodictya, Stictopora, Phaenopora, Clathropora, etc., which 

 all do, in elementary structure, correspond with'Fistulipora, being composed 

 of tubules of the same configuration, and of an intertubular cellulose tissue. 

 I find it strange, that no one describing these different-mentioned genera 

 has stated the cellulose nature of this intertubular substance, although it 

 forms an important and essential part of all these bryozoa. 



FiSTULIPORA TEIFOLIA UOV. SpCC. 



From an incrusting basal expansion of prevalently-cellulose nature, tri- 

 angular stems about one centimeter wide, with sharp edges and concave 

 sides, grow up. From the surface of these, new three-edged folds elevate 

 themselves, and prolongate into stems, whereby a very peculiar sort of rami- 

 fication is produced. Each triangular stem is composed of three leaves, 

 grown together with their inner sides, forming a three-edged central suture 

 line, from which the tubules begin in a prostrate position, but soon become 

 rectangular to the surface of their respective leaves. 



Surface generally appearing worn, with not projecting round orifices one- 

 fifth of a millimeter wide. In perfect specimens they are surrounded by an 

 elevated rim. Distance of orifices about two tube diameters. Intertubular 

 spaces where not worn, exhibiting the elevated angular outlines of the cells. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 128 



Quite conspicuous, not elevated maculae are distributed over the surface. 

 Locality. La Grange, Missouri. (Keokuk Limestone.) 



FlSTULIPORA COMPRESSA UOV. SpCC. 



Occurs associated with the former. 



It grows in compressed ramose stems about one centimeter wide in the 

 larger diameter, which are fixed to the ground or to foreign bodies by an 

 irregular basal expansion. Surface raised in obtuse, unequal monticules, 

 with a cellulose macula in the centre of each. Tubes one-sixth of a milli- 

 meter wide, of irregular form, distant about a tube diameter or less, and, if 

 the surface is not worn, surrounded by an elevated margin. Structure in 

 conformity with all the other Fistuliporas. 



FiSTULIPORA PECULIARIS nOV. SpCC. 



Is a very interesting representative of stellate or floriform tube orifices in 

 Fistulipora, with whose occurrence in the genera Chaetetes and Collopora we 

 have already become acquainted. It grows in thin leaf-like expansions, with 

 orifices on both sides, or in simple leaves with an epitheca below. Orifices 

 circular, surrounded by an equally-projecting margin, distant more than their 

 own diameter, and exhibiting from six to ten tooth like projections from their 

 inner circumference. By grinding away the superficial portions, the tubules 

 appear still provided with these radial dents, an evidence that they are not 

 spiniilose projections confined to the tube margins, but the ends of vertical 

 ridges, running through the whole length of the tubules. 



The surface is dotted with scarcely-elevated cellulose maculae, which, like 

 the narrower intertubular spaces, are finely granulose. Intertubular tissue 

 vesiculose. Tubules rarely septate. 



Locality. La Grange, Mo. (Keokuk Limestone.) 



Fourth Contribution to the HERPETOLOGY of Tropical America. 



BY PROF. E. D. COPE. 



I. The collection made hy direction of the Governor of Yucatan, Jose Salazar 

 Starregui, hy Arthur Schott, Naturalist of the Commission, and sent to the 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



Cinosternum shavianum. C mexiconum Le Conte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Philada., 1854, p. 180. 



Chelopus areolatas? Cope, Proc. 1, e. 1865, 186. Emys areolatus Dum6ril, 

 Arch. d. Mus., vi. 223. 

 A large female specimen from Belize, from Dr. Parsons, confirms the characters 

 of that from the expedition, and appears to be distinct from the C. punctu- 

 1 ariu s, 



Crocodilus moreletii A. Dumeril, Arch. d. Mus , vi. 255. 



Anolis nebulosus Wiegmann. 



One sp. No. 714. Very near the true A. sallaei Gthr. 



Anolis laeviventris Wiegm. 



This species is allied to S c h i e d i i Wiegm. (sericeiis Hallow.) and t r o p i- 

 dogaster Hallow. Several specimens Nos. 503, 505, 452. 



Basiliscus v i 1 1 a t u s. Corythaeolus Kaup. 



Abundant. A second specimen of the allied B. n u c li a 1 i s Cope, Proc. 

 A. N. S. Philada., 1862, 181, has been sent to the Museum Smithsonian by 

 Robt. Kennicott, from Panama. The B. galeritusA. Dum. is the species 

 since described by Gray as B. {Pienosaura) seemanni, 



18t56] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OP 



Laeraanotua alticoronatus Cope, Proo. A. N. S. Philada., 18G5, 192. 



Two specimens. 

 Ctenosaura pectin ata Wiegmann, Herpetologia Mexicana. Cijclura, Dum. 

 and Bibr. 



Numerous specimens of this large Iguana ; one taken witli its mouth full 

 of the flowers of a papilionactous tree called Sabi. The Iguaiiae are known to 

 be herbivorous, and Giinther has stated that the Basilisci are likewise. I can 

 add the Cyclura baeolopha, and many A n ol e s , not only the large, but 

 the small species. The latter take also ants, as described by Gosse and Wood. 

 The separated plates of the muzzle, with the small scales between them, place 

 the Metopocerus cornutus Wagl. of the West Indies between this genus and 

 the true Cycluras. The latter species was taken by Weinland in Hayti (Mus. 

 Compar. Zoolog.) and by Fr. Klett in Navassa, southwest from Hayti. (Mus. 

 Academy.) 



Ctenosaura acanthu ra Wiegmann, Herp. Mexicana. 

 Apparently not so abundant as the last. 



.Cachryx defensor, sp. et. gen. nov. 



Digits shortened. Body compressed. Nostril on canthus rostralis, lateral. 

 Femoral pores, no preanals. Tail short, flat, covered with verticils of strong, 

 erect, conic spinous scales. Head covered with small uniform scales ; no 

 interparietal. A strong gular dermal fold. No dorsal crest. 



This genus is allied to Uroeentrum and Hoplurus, but difi'ers in the pos- 

 session of femoral pores. It agrees in this with the depressed genus Hoplo- 

 cercus Fitzinger, but in it the caudal scales, though partially spiny, are not 

 whorled. Euphryne Bd. resembles it, but in it the scales of the whorls are 

 not prolonged into spines, and the animal is depressed. 



Head at posterior margin of orbits equal length from end of muzzle to 

 middle of frontal region. Scales on muzzle larger than others. Loreal region 

 concave ; nostril in hinder part of a single scale. Ear large as eye, without 

 marginal serrations. Scales of body small, slightly imbricate, homogeneous, 

 smooth, in transverse series, and oblique longitudinal ; larger on the rump, 

 smaller on the sides : a slightly. larger vertebral series. Abdominals smooth, 

 equal dorsals ; gulars a little smaller, equal on plica. A prebrachial and 

 postauricular fold. Scales of fore limb moderate, some of those of femur and 

 tibia much larger, spiniferous. Caudal whorls fifteen, the scales below nar- 

 rowed, keeled, the carina prolonged into a flat spine. Spiniferous superior 

 whorls seven, spines nearly erect, those of the median row smaller. With 

 hind limb extended, the longest digit does not reach the axilla. Femoral 

 pores six to nine. Bright olivaceous ; shoulder and two bands on humerus, 

 and the anterior part of dorsum, with interscapular region, black, the latter 

 with two cross series of green spots, more or less distinct on the whole body 

 in younger specimens. In older specimens, median dorsal region bright 

 rufous. 



Total length, 8 in. 6 lines. Muzzle to gular fold, 1 in. 7'5 1. ; to vent, 5 in. 

 Fore limb, 2 in. 1-5 1. Exped. Coll., No. 585. 



This remarkable genus is decidedly iguaniform, but the digits are too short 

 for an arboreal habit. Its tail is like that of the most spinous Ctenosaura, 

 halved, and excessively abbreviated. 



Sceloporus serrifer, sp. nov. 



A stout species, near the S. spinosus, but differing in its fewer and 

 larger scales, with more serrate margins, and in its coloration. It belongs 

 therefore to the section with large lateral scales and only one row of large 

 supraorbitals. In this species the latter are bounded by a complete series of 

 inner and outer marginals. Scales from nape to rump, in twenty-three cross 

 series, each with a long mucro, and two and three lesser ones on each side of 

 it. Interparietal broader than long ; frontal narrow, only transversely divided, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 125 



posterior portion very small. Internasal longer than broad, elevated, some- 

 times sharply keeled. Lores deeply grooved. Claws of extended hind limb 

 nearly to ear ; femoral pores 9 — 10. Auricular marginal scales thin, not so 

 large as those just preceding. Median abdominal scales once, gulars twice 

 or thrice emarginate. Tail rather short. Length from end of muzzle to vent, 

 4 in. 1 1. 



Color above greyish or brighter green, with a complete pea-green bordered 

 black collar, which is narrower on the gular region. Throat and sides of (^ 

 blue, the latter broadly black-bordered behind and medially. A yellow bar 

 across prefontals, one between orbits and one across occiput, all separated by 

 brown or blackish, the posterior green-bordered behind. Younger specimens 

 have the back brown cross banded. Nos. 734, 719. 



Sceloporus chrysostictus, sp. nov. 



Near the S. scalaris, but without auricular marginal scales larger 

 than the temporal, with smaller dorsal scales and different coloration. 

 Lateral and ventral scales nearly equal ; dorsals in forty-five rows from occi- 

 put to rump, obtusely mucronate, not notched. No larger plates behind 

 parietals. Cephalic plates rugose ; three pair supranasals ; internasal small, 

 flat ; frontal nearly equally transversely divided, anterior half longitudinally 

 divided. Interparietal narrowed anteriorly, long as broad ; parietals oblique, 

 longer than broad. Supraorbitals surrounded by marginals, the external 

 separated from them by a row of rhombic scales. Unguis of extended hind 

 limb to near nostril. From end of muzzle to vent, 2 in. 2 lines. 



Brown, with two golden longitudinal lines from above ear to above groin, 

 separated by nine rows of scales. A series of short, indistinct reddish brown 

 cross-bars on each side the dorsum within these lines. Sides darker, with 

 golden spangles ; axilla and scapular region black. Head dark brown ; below- 

 pale brown, chin darker. 



Nos. 507 and 201. 



Sphaerodactylus glaucus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, 1865, 192. 



Several specimens. Dr. Berendt has also sent this species from Tabasco, 

 with Rhinophrynus d o r s a 1 i s . 



Thecadactylus rapicaudus Gray. Platydactylus Thecoiu/x, Dum. & Bibr. 

 One specimen, with several oblique, lateral, dorsal black spots. 



Coleonyx e 1 e g a n s Gray, Dumeril, Arch. d. Mus. viii. 438, Tab. 



No. 483. Prof. Sumichrast has sent this species from Orizaba, (6334,) and 

 Morelet originally procured it in Peten. Another species of the same genus 

 is Stenodactylus variegatus Wiegm., Baird, U. S. Mex. Boundary Survey. 

 Brachydactyias Peters, Monatsber. Preuss. Acad. 1863, 41, is identical. 



Cnemidophorus s a c k i i Wiegm. 



This species is a true Cnemidophorus, and not an Ameiva, as formerly 

 supposed. 



Typhlops mierostomus, sp. nov. 



This is a slender species, stouter posteriorly than anteriorly, with small 

 flattened rounded head, and muzzle obtuse and very promim nt in profile. 

 Labials four: first minute ; second subquadrate, below preocular; third and 

 fourth elongate vertically, and embracing between them a subocular ; fourth 

 highest, in contact with oral fissure by its anterior angle only. Ovular rather 

 smaller than subocular ; eye a small black speck on the oculoprseocular su- 

 ture ; praeocular very large, broader than both nasals, outline almost angulate 

 in front; two equal supraoculars larger than ocular. Nasal much narrowed 

 above, nostril at nearly half its elevation, connected with labial suture by a 

 long suture which is convex posteriorly, leaving postnasal narrower than pre- 

 nasal ; and with rostral suture by a short transverse fissure. Median cephalic 

 series not smaller than lateral. Body scales in eighteen longitudinal rows. 



1806.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Vf'nt little visible, nearlv terminal. Tail very short, straight, its aciiraination 

 nearly continuous with inferior plane. Length 10 in. 7 lin. ; of tail, 0'9 lin. ; 

 diameter of posterior abdomen, 1 line. Color yellowish olive, becoming 

 brighter yellow posteriorly. Coll. Commission, No. 71(5. 



This species is only allied to the T. disparilis Jan, Iconographie, Tab. 

 vi. f. G, but is more slender anteriorly, has broader preocular, more elevated 

 nostril, much smaller ocular, higher labials, etc. etc. 



Boa eques Dura. & Bibron. Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, 243. 

 Several specimens. 



Tantilla vermiformis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, 74. Lio- 

 ninia vermiformis Hallow., 1. c, 1860, 484. 

 One specimen. 



Tantilla moesta. Ilomalocranium moestum Giinther, Ann. Mag. N. H. 



1863, p. 



Rather slender; tail five and one fourth times in total length; muzzle 

 rounded, scarcely projecting ; orbitals 1 — 2, the anterior higher than long, 

 barely in contact with postnasal. Superior labials seven, last highest, eye 

 over third and fourth. Temporals 1—2. Pregeinals longer, in contact with 

 mental ; inferior labials six, fourth largest. Vertical plate longer than broad, 

 posterior margins longer than lateral ; superciliaries short, broad. Scales of 

 body in fifteen rows. Total length Vih inches. 



Glossy black, chin and throat, and a collar involving postorbitals and bor- 

 ders and ends of occipitals and three rows of nuchal scales, yellow. 



This genus now embraces the following species. 



T. planiceps m., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., 1861, 74. Coluber 

 Blainville, Nouv. Ann. Mus. Paris, 1834, 62. Baird k Girard, Serpents, 154. 



T. gracilis, Baird & Girard, 1. c. 132. 



T. h a 1 1 o w e 1 1 i i Cope, 1. c. 1861, 74. 



T. vermiformis m. e. Hallowell, supra. 



T. reticulata Cope, I. c. 1860, 77. 



T. m i n i a t a , Cope, 1. c. 1863, 100. 



T. coronata Baird & Girard, 1. c. 131. 



T. melanocephalam. e. Schlegel, Dum. & Bibr., 859. Var., with 

 longitudinal bands. Guadalaxara, Mexico, Major; Trinidad, W. L, Gill. 



T. nigriceps Kennicott, Proc. A. N. S. Philad., 1860, 328. 



T. moesta m., supra. 



T. laticeps Giinther, Proc. Zoolog. Soc. Loudon, 1860, 240. 



T. semicincta, Dam. & Bibr. 862. 



Ficimia publia, sp. nov. 



This species is intermediate between the F. o 1 i v a c e a and F. v a Ti e g a t a, * 

 and the Gyalopiura canumf m., having the broad rostral of the former in 

 contact with tlie frontal, and the two iuternasals of the latter. 



Nostril little longer than broad, concave, its apex more than a right angle, 

 recurved, the plate concave, contracted at its junction with the frontal. A 

 suture from nostril to interlabial suture ; second labial largely in contact with 

 prefrontal ; eye over third and fourth, fifth triangular, sixth largest, seventh 

 and last smallest ; seven inferior labials, postgeneials rudimental. Orbitals 

 1 — 2 ; temporals 1 — 2 ; occipitals rounded behind, broad as long ; vertical 

 broader than long ; superciliaries longer than broad. Scales broad, in seven- 

 teen rows, the second nearly equal first. Gastrostega 138 ; anal divided ; 

 urostega 37 pairs. 



Light yellowish-brown above, with twenty-nine or thirty subquadrate or 

 narrow transverse brown spots ; a larger nuchal spot ; sides brown punctate ; 

 head darker shaded above, a brown spot below eye. Below immaculate 

 whitish. Total length 8 in. 9 L Nos. 625, 726, Comission Collection. 



* Amblymetopon Qiiather, Catal. f Yid. H\\\m. Journ., 1863. 



[May, 




r 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Stenorhina ventralis Dum. & Bibr. Cope, Proc. A. N. S. Philad., 1860, 



242. 

 Ninia coUaris, Jan. Elenco, 35. Cope, Proc. A. N. S. Philad., 1863, 100. 



Masticophis bilineatus m. Herpetodryas hilineatus Scblegel, Jan. Elenco, 

 Syst. 81. 

 Two specimens. Masticophis is the first name published with description 

 for this genus, which I characterized (Proc. Acad. 1861, 560) under the name 

 Drymobius Fitz. It embraces all the Herpetodryades of authors, (vide Jan's 

 Elenco,) except the H. carinatus, H. sebastus m., and H. flaves- 

 cens m. {Phyllosira m.) No. 777. 



Thrasops max ic anus Cope, Proc. A. N. S. Philad., 1861, 557. Leptophis 

 D. & B. Ahaetulla Gthr. 

 Two specimens. No. 771. 



Leptodira annulata var. 



Much like the South American variety in characters, but slender, with very 

 narrow neck and broad head, like Himantodes. The head is broader, and the 

 neck more constricted than in annulata; scales narrower, in twenty-one 

 rows; prefrontals broader than long, loreal square; one preocular little 

 apparent on upper surface of head, two postoculars ; eight upper labials ; eye 

 over fourth and fifth ; third sometimes in contact. Grastrostega 184, anal 

 divided; urostega 81. 



Grrey, with twenty-two jet black half rings, extending to gastrosteges, the 

 anterior broader, posterior pointed in front. Below immaculate. A black 

 band from eye crosses angle of mouth and unites with first nuchal half ring. 

 Total length 18 in. 2 1.; of tail, 4 in. 4 1., which is as broad as from end of 

 muzzle to its border. 



Tropidodipsas brevifacies, sp. nov. 



This species approximates nearly the form of Leptognathus in its prege- 

 neials broad as long, and postgeneials broader than long, and in the lack of 

 complete preocular. It difi"ers from the two known species of its genus in 

 having smooth scales. An upper preocular, on one side exceedingly minute, 

 neither attaining the frontals ; a loreal extensively margining orbit, on one 

 side divided by a horizontal suture. Postoculars three, inferior in contact 

 with fifth and sixth labials, superior with occipital only. Superior labials 

 nine, three posterior longer than high ; inferior eleven, fifth and sixth minute 

 and bordered by two hexagonal shields within ; (one side mutilated.) Inter- 

 nasals and prefrontals broader than long, frontal broad as long, lateral longer 

 than posterior suture ; temporals 2 — 3 — 4. Gastrostega 171, fiv^e single gulars, 

 one entire anal, urostega 86 pairs. Tail 3| times in total length. 



Glossy black, with ten on the body and seven on the tail yellow annuli, 

 which occupy four scales and five gastrostega. A broad yellow collar reaching 

 to the occipitals and involving two posterior labials, and four gular shields. 



The teeth in this species are short and weak, and the maxillary bones 

 slender and not alate. Coll. No. 753. One specime^n. 



Elaps ornatissimus Jan, Elenco. 



Smilisca b a u d i n i i m. Hyla vanvleitii Bd. Hyla baudinii Dum., Bibr. viii. 

 Apparently abundant. 



Triprion petasatus Cope. Pharyngodon petasatus m. Proc. Acad. 1865, 

 193. Generic name preoccupied in Helminthes, 



Bufo valliceps Wiegmann, Peters. B, nebulifer Gir&rd. 

 Bufo m a r i n u s. B. agua Daudin. 

 Rana h a 1 e c i n a Bo8C. One sp. , No. 712. 

 1866.1 



h 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



II. A collection of Reptiles , from Belize from Dr. Parsons, contained 



Cinostemum leuoostoraum, Ptycherajs o r n a t a, Dermatemys m a v e i 



and C'lielopus areolatus. 

 Of Ophidians, Lcptodira a n n u 1 a t a. 

 Conioplianes bipunctatua Cope, Proc. 1860,248. Coronella hipunctata 



Giinther, Catal., 36. 

 The other species of this genus known are — 

 C. f i 8 s i d e n s Hallowell, Gihitlier, Catalogue B. M. ( Coronella.) 

 C. proterops Cope, Pr. A. N. Sci. 1800, 249. 

 C. p u n c t i g u 1 a r i s m. 1. c. 1860, 248. 

 C. dr o mi c i fo rmis m. J'ackymenis dromiciformis Peters.* Monatsber. 



Berlin, 1863, p. 273. 

 G. 1 a t e r i t i u s m. 1. c. 1861, 524. 

 C. i m p e r i a 1 i s m. 1. c. 1861, p. 74. Tmniophis imperialis Bd., Gird., U. S. 



Mex. Bound. Surv. Kept., 23, Tab. 19, fig, 1. 



Coluber t r i a s p i s sp. nov. 



Form compressed, as in C. 1 aetu s ; scales all small, smooth, faintly cari- 

 nate on the caudal region, in thirty-three longitudinal rows ; head elongate, 

 with three or two loreals, one preocular and two or three postoculars. Maxil- 

 lary teeth weak, slightly longer in front. Vertex and front plane, muzzle 

 narrow, rounded, rostral not prominent. Nasals elongate, internasals a little 

 broader than long, prefrontals long as broad. Preocular not quite reaching 

 frontal ; latter longer than broad, front and sides straight, forming rectangles, 

 posterior angle very open. Temporals three, long, oblique upwards and back- 

 ivards from the sixth upper labial, separated from occipital by two small scales. 

 Nine superior labials, all longer than high, fourth and fifth under orbit. Pre- 

 geneials long, postgeneials rudimental. Tail a little less than one-fifth total 

 length. Gastrostega 266 ; anal divided; urostega 118. 



Yellowish gray, with fifty jet black, white margined dorsal spots, which 

 occupy thirteen scales transversely and three and four longitudinally. They 

 are narrower and more approximated posteriorly, and are accompanied by a 

 series of similar quadrate lateral spots alternating with them : light brown 

 irregular spots on the ends of the gastrostega. Below immaculate. A narrow 

 and broad black crossband on the muzzle, latter from orbits ; one on each 

 side from the superciliary shield to the nape, and a median band from middle 

 of frontal to beyond occipitals, enclosing a pale occipital spot. 



This species is said to be common in the Belize, " where it is called Clap and 

 Sawyer." It grows to eight or nine feet in length, and is very active in its 

 movements. 



This is an anomalous species of the genus ; its elongate form, loreals, and 

 general physiognomy approximate it to the Dipsadine genus Trimorphodon, 

 of the same region. 



Masticophis margaritiferus. Drymohius m. 



Eiaps ornatissimus Jan, Elenco. 



Elaps diastema Dum., Bibr. 



Bufo sternosignatus Giinther. Catal. 



The same correspondent sends from the neighboring region of Honduras — 

 Ninia collaris m. Streptophorus sebce collaris Jan, and 

 Rhegnopsf vis on in us gen. et sp. nov. 



* Professor Peters finds Coniophanes ITallowell probably identical with Tachymenis Wiegmann. 

 The distini tion- are well marked,— in the tormer one preocular and no scale nores, in the latter 

 two preoculnrsand one scale pore. The former genus has been since called Glaphrophis by Jan, 

 and the Tachymenis hypoconia ra. 1. e. I860, 249, is Mesotes obtrusus Jan, Coronellinae, 1883. 



I P^yvvfAi from the feverance of the naiials. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



The genus is uear to Carphophis in most respects, including the divided anal 

 shield, but differs in its two distinct nasals, of which the anterior is pierced 

 for the nostril. There are two postoculars, and fifteen series of scales. Teeth 

 equal. Form rather slender. The postgeneials are quite small, and con- 

 verted into scales similar to those at the extremities of the gular gastrosteges : 

 they nevertheless occupy the true position of geneials. The pregeneials are 

 very large, and so wide as to reduce the two smdl inferior labials bordering 

 them anteriorly, to a longitudinal linear form ; they crowd the first pair into 

 a transverse linear series : the symphy.seal is very small and transverse. 

 Seven inferior labials, fourth and fifth much largest. Superior labials seven, 

 of which the last and fifth are large, the lattter not quite reaching superior 

 postocular, the sixth lower: temporals 1 — 1. Occipitals elongate, frontal 

 broader than long, prefrontals several times as long as internasals, largely 

 margining orbits. Rostral not projecting ; nasals two, nostril in anterior, 

 which nearly reaches labial bonier ; loreal long, bounded by second, and 

 chiefly third superior labial. Pupil round. Gastrosteges 135, anal divided, 

 urosteges 36. Length of head and body, 10 in. ; of tail, 2 in. 2 1. 



Color above glossy dark brown, the centres of the scales paler, of the outer 

 row especially, reducing the dark to mere margins. A darker brown line 

 from nape to tail on the fifth series on each side. A darker shade on hinder 

 part of occipitals and end of muzzle. Straw-colored below, extending on su- 

 perior labials round margin of rostral : tail brown below, except middles of 

 proximal j^cutella. 



In this species the pupil is round. 



Siphonops sy ntremus sp. nov. 



This species differs from the four hitherto known, in the close approxima- 

 tion of the narial and tentacular openings : the latter lie a little behind the- 

 former, and are slightly larger. The minute eyes are just visible; the inter- 

 nal nares are some distance behind the palatine arch. Muzzle projecting, ob- 

 tuse in profile ; from above narrowed, rounded. Teeth large, five on each 

 ramus mandibuli. A gular, and strong postgular fold; 130 annular pli>£e, 

 which are complete, except slight ventral interruption anteriorly ; the poste- 

 rior third of the length with intermediate annuli, which are first lateral only, 

 then complete above, entirely complete on the terminal inch : the whole num- 

 ber will then be about 170 annuli. 



Form of body rather slender ; tail depressed at end. short, acuminate. 



Color dark plumbeous, annuli yellow lined ; head yellowish brown. 



This species resembles the Toecilia ochrocephala, but is primarily dis- 

 tinguished by the position of the foramen, and of the inner nares, also by the 

 color and character of annuli. 



The species of the genus now are, S. indistinctus, R. &L., S. annu- 

 latus Mikan, S. brasiliensis Liitk., S. mexicanus Dum., Bibr.,. 

 and iS. syntremus m. 



III. Notes on Neotropical Batrachians. 

 Ranula chrysoprasina sp. nov. 



In examining a collection sent to the Smithsonian Institution from Arriba,. 

 Costa Rica, from Chas. N. Riotte, I was much surprised to notice what was appa- 

 rently a Hylorana near H. erythraea. Doubting the correctness of the- 

 locality, I laid it away. Having since seen other and allied species from 

 Tropical America, I recognize the existence of a genus representing Hylorana, 

 but differing in the important particular of the incompleteness of the ethmoid 

 arch, its superior plate being represented by cartilage. In the present species- 

 the terminal phalanges are slender, and furnished with a transverse limb^ 

 though the dilatations are small ; the latter are distinct in the Raca c o e r u- 

 leopunctata Steindachner ; in an undescribed species from Vera Paz the- 

 the transverse limb is very small, but present. 

 1866.] 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The poneric characters will then be — 



Ktlimoid arch superiorly cartilaginous ; prefrontals narrow, longitudinal 

 widely, separated. Distal phalanges slender, with transverse limb; no meta- 

 tarsal shovel ; tongue bifurcate. 



Rannla af f i n i a. Rnnn affinis and Ranida (joilmern (young) Peters, Mon- 

 atsber, Berlin. Venezuela. 

 Though I employ the name given to this species for the genus, I am not 

 positive as to the condition of the distal phalanges. 



Rannla sp. nov. 0. Salvin ; Vera Paz, Venezuela. 



Ranula coeruleopunctata. Rnna do. Steind., Verhandl. Bot. Zool. 

 Gesselsch. Wien, 1864, 264. ? South America. 



Ranula chrysoprasina. 



The species is allied to the last, but has a relatively shorter muzzle and 

 limbs. Nostril nearer end of muzzle than orbit (equidistant in coeruleo- 

 punctata); muzzle 1 l-5th orbit (1 2-5th Steind.) Under jaw anteriorly 

 abruptly truncate. Canthus rostralis straight, strong, muzzle acuminate from 

 its extremity, projecting ; loreal region vertical. Tympanum elliptic two- 

 thirds orbit. Vomerine teeth weak, in convergent fasciculi behind opposite 

 nares. Skin shagreened above, a glandular fold on each side. The longest 

 finger cannot be extended to vent ; heel to middle loreal region. Toes fully 

 vnot widely palmate, three distal phalanges of fourth free ; one minute meta- 

 tarsal tubercle. 



Color brilliant leek green, the groin and belly approaching golden ; a golden 

 band from lip to shoulder, and faint one on each side back. Limbs above, 

 Hnd tarsus and forearm below, black, the femur with a few golden spots on 

 black ground behind. Head dark above, from eye to shoulder black ; below 

 , pale yellowish green immaculate, except some dark shades on sternal regions. 



Length of head and body 1 in. 9 1.; of fore limb 1 in. ; of hind limb 2 in. 

 7-5 1. Costa Rica. 



Steindachner represents much less palmation than exists in our specimen. 



It is interesting to observe how that this Raniform type, while preserving 

 its definitive features in this outlying region of its distribution, and within 

 the limits of the lower faunae of South America and Australia, offers the low- 

 est condition of cranial structure consistent with this type, i. e., the imperfec- 

 tion of its ethmoid and prefrontal bones. 



Colostethus latinasns gen. nov. 



By this name I propose to characterize a genus of Ranidse, the type of which 

 is the Phi/llohates latinasns m., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1863, 48. 



The sternum is Raniform without manubrium, and with membranous 

 xiphisternum, quite as in the Bufoniform genus Dendrobates, from which tlie 

 presence of very well developed teeth only separates it. It will form a Group 

 I. of Fam., Ranidae before that occupying that place in System Batrachia Sa- 

 lientia, Nat. History Review, 1865, and tending towards Bufoniformia. The 

 .fljaracters are — 



Group I. No manubrium, xiphisternum membranous. External meta- 

 tarsi bound ; distal phalanges with terminal transverse limb. 



Character of genus. Digits free with dilatations ; no vomerine teeth ; pre- 

 frontals widely separated by the largely produced bony superior ethmoid 

 plate. 



Bufo coccifer sp. nov. 



Parotoids round seniiglobular. Muzzle narrowly rount^ed, nearly as long as 

 orbit. Strong bony, canthal, pre-, sub-, and postorbital, supratympanic and 

 -supraorbital ridges ; the last regularly curved and sending parietal branch to- 

 wards the median line; the first rapidly converging, leaving only a gutter 

 ; between. Tympanum on^-fifth orbit. Everywhere minutely tubercular, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 131 



those of the sides and forearm conic : soles rough, web short, metatarsal tu- 

 bercles small, obtusely prominent; tarsal fold scarcely visible. Heel to 

 axilla. Two obtuse metacarpal warts. 



Gray brown ; a yellow vertebral line, with numerous chestnut brown light 

 bordered spots on each side. Sides with two longitudinal brown bands, one 

 from parotoid and one from groin. Limbs irregularly light varied above. 

 Under surfaces immaculate. 



Length of head and body 2 in. 6 1. ; breadth at angle of jaws below 1 in. 

 Length of fore limb 1 in. 5 1. ; length of foot 1 in. 3 1. 



Arriba, Costa Rica, C. N. Riotte. Smithsonian, No. 6490. 



This handsome species resembles the B. ocellatus Gthr. in coloration. 



Phyllobates ri d e n s sp. nov. 



The close areolation of the abdomen, throat, and lower face of femora, the 

 recurved angle of the mouth, the minute (one-eighth orbit) tympanum above 

 the ordinary position, and truncate tongue, are marked features in this species. 

 The tongue is broad and extensively free, and each angle behind is thickened. 

 Choanse small. Eustachian ostia minute. Skin smooth, without folds or tu- 

 bercles, except a few wartlets over orbit. The eyes are large and prominent, 

 diameter of 07-bit nearly equal from same to end of muzzle. Latter projecting 

 beyond jaw, nares behind the tip, each on an angle of canthus approximated. 

 Canthus strong, a little concave ; loreal region oblique. Greatest width of 

 head (behind) equal to length of same, and entering 2§ in total. Heel and 

 palm to end muzzle. Fingers and toes long, free, dilatations well marked. 



Color above grayish brick- red, with a gray cross bar between eves, two 

 across tibia and three across femur. Sides with some gray shades, lip with 

 five bars of the same, two from the orbit. A black spot on tympanum, and 

 gray line on canthus. Below, and inner faces of limbs pale brownish. 



Habitat. — St. Juan River, Nicaragua, Robt. Kennicott ; Mus. Smithsonian. 



Engystoma variolosum sp. nov. 



Two strong compressed metatarsal tubercles, a sublongitudinal cuneiform 

 and subtransverse opposite it : toes slightly webbed. Width between tym- 

 panic regions nearly double the length from muzzle to nuchal fold. Muzzle 

 prominent, as long as orbit, nostrils nearly terminal. Mandible with two 

 symphyseal notches, and median knob. Tongue flat, elongate ; slits of vocal 

 vesicle large. Heel to front of scapula. 



Dark brown above ; under side limbs and belly darker, with numerous 

 large yellowish spots. Sides anteriorly blackish brown, which has a serrate 

 margin above. Femora, forearms and tarsi same behind, with coarse yellow 

 vermiculations : some yellow spots behind the angle of the mouth. Length 

 of head and body 1 in. 45 1. ; of posterior limbs 1 in. 7 1. 



This species resembles the East Indian species called Diplopelma by Giin- 

 ther, on account of the palmate feet : if this is the only ground of distinction, 

 the genus must be united with Engystoma. 



Arriba, Costa Rica ; Chas. N. Riotte. Mus. Smithsonian, No. 6486. 



Engystoma ustum. 



This animal agrees with the preceding in its two metatarsal tubercles, but 

 they are less acute, the exterior being only an acuminate wart. Toes entirely 

 free. Muzzle more prominent than in the last orE. carolinense, little 

 longer than orbit ; head larger relatively than in the last mentioned species, 

 with which it agrees in size. Width of cranium at tympanic region less than 

 1| times from muzzle to nuchal fold. 



Length of head and body 11 lin. ; posterior limb 12 lines. 



Deep brown above, yellowish brown below, with numerous approximated 

 pale spots, which extend slightly on sides. Limbs unicolor. 



Habitat. — Guadalaxara, West Mexico. I. L Major. 



The E. carolinense never exhibits more than one metatarsal tubercle. 



1866.] 




182 raocEEDiNos of the academy of 



A species of Coecilia occurs in Panama, of which a specimen was sent to the 

 Mus. Academy by Drs. Gallaer and John L. Leconte, viz. : 



Concilia c li r c e p li a 1 a. 



Proportions near those of Siphonops mexicanus; length fifty-one times 

 the diameter at middle. Tail obtuse depressed. Head narrowed, muzzle de- 

 curved, not truncate, projecting acutely (in profile) beyond mouth. Tentacu- 

 lar foramen a little below, nostril more above the angle of the muzzle ; eyes 

 not visible. Posterior nares close behind palatine arch. Annuli, commencing 

 at head, 200, equidistant, complete above and below. On the terminal inch there 

 are intermediate plicaj, on the dor.sal surface only, except on the last three 

 lines, where tbey are complete. Total length 12 in. 9 1. 



Yellowish plumbeous. The plicse dark ; thi-oat and head ochre yellow. 



Fine examples of the C. compressicauda D. &B., and Siphonops i n - 

 distinct us Lutk. are in the Mus. Essex Inst, , Salem, Mass., the last from 

 the Rio Grande, Brazil. 



IV. On Reptiles from Orizaba, Vera Cruz. 



There remain to be added to the Catalogue of Reptiles sent by Professor 

 Sumichrast from Orizaba, published in Proc. Academy 1865, 195, — 



Spelerpes lineolus m. Proc. Acad. 1865, 197. 



Spelerpes o r c u 1 u s ib. maintains its character of stout body and head, and 

 dark colors, but not the absence of angulation of the lip, as this is s'rongly 

 marked : the dorsal region and tail above are dark red, offering a general 

 resemblance to Plethodon erythronotus. (No. 14. ) 



Bufo cristatus Wiegmann, Isis, 1863, 660. Peters, Monatsb. Berlin, 1863, 

 82. Brought also from near Vera Cruz by Dr. Sartorius. 



Lithodytes (Craugastor) g r i s e u s m. Hyla grisea Hallow. 



Cystignathus melanonotus Hallow, var. 



Coleouyx elegans supra. 



Barissia antauges sp. nov. 



A species diflfering from those already known in the entire smoothness of 

 the scales of the body, while those of the tail are arranged in obtuse and 

 strong ridges. Nuchal rows eight, those of body jfi. A depression along the 

 vertebral line ; six scales margin the vent. Labials ^^o, three last superior 

 nearly equal, separated by four rows of nearly equal temporals from parietals. 

 Latter broad as long, well separated, with the fronto-parietals b^ the elongate 

 interparietal. Five supraorbitals, embracing three superciliaries. Prefront- 

 als longer than broad ; three pairs supranasals. Tail short for the genus. 

 Limbs also short. Head short and elevated. End muzzle to axiila 1 in. 3 1, ' 

 latter to vent 2 in. 1 1. ; from latter to end tail 4 in. 1 1. 



Above dark brown, with a subdivided iridescence as though greased, and 

 with many small blackish brown spots, which are more distinct on the' tail. 

 Sides with about seventeen irregular vertical black bars from opposite nape to 

 groin, each bordered with yellow specks behind. Front of ear and lips black 

 yellow varied ; body and tail below, blackish, witti very many vellowish- 

 white specks. 



No. 11, Sumichrast's Coll. Stated by Prof. S. to be very rare. 



Ficimia o 1 i v a c e a Gray. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Description of five New Species of the Genus TJNIO. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio SiAMEvsif!. — Testa laevi, transversa, subcylindracea,ad basim emarginata, 

 valde inaequilaterali, subcompressa, ad latere plaaulata, posticetruncata, antice 

 rotundata ; valvulis tennissimis, diaphinis ; natibus prominulis ; epidermid'i 

 luteo-oliva; dentibus cardinalibus acicularis, sublongis, obliquis ; lateralibus 

 lon^is, laraellatis suhrectisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



JIab.—Siaim ; C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio asperulus. — Testa plicata, elliptica, inaequilaterali, postice subbiangii- 

 lata, antice rotundata; valvulis subtenuibus; natibus subprominentibus, ad 

 apices undulatis ; epidermide viridi-oliva, obsolete ridiata ; dentibus cardinali- 

 bus laraellatis, paruna obliquif, in dextro duplicibus; lateralibus sublongis, 

 lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita caerulea et valde iridescente. 



Hab.—SiAm ; Thomas R. Ingalls, M. D. 



Unio pilatus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, valde inaequilaterali, postice obtuse 

 angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, autice crassioribus ; natibus 

 subprominentibus, ad apices minute undulatis; epidermide luteo viridi, 

 micauti, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus duplicibus ; lateralibus sub- 

 longis, subrectis lamellatisqne; margarita alba et valde iridescente. 



Ilab.—Sisim ; Thomas R. Ingalls, M. D. 



Unio bvitatus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, valde inaequilaterali, postice subbiangu- 

 lata, antice rotundata; valvulis subtenuibus, autice parum cr^ssioribus ; nail- 

 bus prominulis, ad apices divaricate undulatis; epiderraide olivacea, obsolete 

 radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus; lateralibus sublongis, subrectis iamellatisque ; margarita alba et 

 iridescente. 



Ilab. — Bengal ; W. A. Haines. 



Unio Strebelii. — Testa laevi, oblonga, ad latere compressa, inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata ; antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice aliquan'o 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis; epidermide luteo-fusca, radiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus subcrassis, elevatis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus; 

 lateralibus sublongis, subcrassis, subcurvatus corrugatisque ; margarita vel 

 purpurea vel salmonea et valde iridescente. 



Hub. — Vera Cruz, Mexico ; G. Strebel. 



Description of two New Species of the Genus LITHASIA. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



LiTHASiA cvLiNDRiCA. — Testa striata, cylindrace<^, flavescente, vittata vel 

 evitata ; spira subelevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus coa- 

 strictis, ultimo grandi ; apertura subconslricta, rhomboidea ; labro acuto, 

 sinuoso; columella alba et valde siauosa. 



Ilab. — Coosa river; E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



LiTHASiA Whbatleyi.* — Testa laivi, subcylindracea, luteo-virente, vittata ; 

 spira elevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis, anfractibus planulatis, ultimo 

 subgrandi ; apertura subconstricta, rhomboidea, intus vittata ; labro acuto, 

 sinuoso; columella alba et Vhlde iridescente. 



Hab. — Cahaba river, Alabama, E. R Showalter, M. D. 



♦ Named after Mr. C. M. Wheatley, to whom I am indebted for the possession of a specimen 



1866.] 




184 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Critical Review of the Family PROCELLARIID^ :— Part IV ; Embracing the 

 JESTRELATE^ and the PRIONEJE. 



BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES, U. S. A. 



lu the present paper, the fourth of the series, are together considered the 

 ^Kstrelatea' and the Priojiea', mainly for the purpose of showing how closelj 

 related these sections are through certain of their genera. 



For the first of these sections three names are at our disposal ; sc. jEatrela- 

 tece, Dapfionece and Rhantisteai. Of these I prefer to accept tlie first, both as 

 having priority, and being taken from the name of the typical and largest 

 genus of the group ; the second being based upon a subtypical genus with but 

 a single species, and the third being derived from Bonaparte's erroneous 

 identification of Kaup's Fulmarine genus Rhanlistes. 



The section uKstre/ateir., as here restricted, corresponds very nearly with the 

 group defined under this name in Bonaparte's Conspectus. There is here, 

 hovv^ever, included in it the genus Daptlon'^, by Bonaparte placed among the 

 Falmarexv ; and it is considered as probably connecting the yEstrelatem with 

 the Prions. The genus Thalassoica is excluded as being essentially Fulma- 

 rine. In generic arrangement I am compelled to differ widely from the dis- 

 tinguished author just named. After attentive and critical examination of his 

 genera Coohilaria, Pterodroma and Bulweria, I must confess my inability to 

 distinguish either of them from yEstrelata by a degree of morphological dif- 

 ference which, by any sublimation of characterization, can be considered of 

 generic import. " Bulweria " has a rather more elongated and deci'ledly 

 cuneiform tail than have the majority of the uEstrelatas ; but differs from 

 some of them in this respect, no more than they do among themselves. 

 " Pterodroma" comprises some fuliginous species morphologically identical 

 with jEstrelata. " Cookilaria " has no characters whatever assigned to it by 

 its author ; possibly because none are to be found in the species included 

 under it. 



I do not hesitate to follow natural data afforded by specimens, even should 

 they conflict with the opinions of so justly distinguished an author as that of 

 the •' Conspectus ; " especially since the more closely I scrutinize his work 

 upon the Petrels, the more irresistibly the conviction is forced upon me, that 

 it is, to speak in the mildest terms, unreliable. It cannot be denied by the 

 most strenuous of his advocates, that there are to be found in this work in- 

 stances of unnecesssary if not unwarrantable pseudo-generic subdivisions ; of 

 some pure figments in the way of species ; of rash collocation of synonymy ; 

 and of weak and intangible diagnoses. These are to the last degree discoura- 

 ging, because perplexing, to the student, — crede mihl experto. They would, 

 however, be less repellant, and bear much more weight, could we feel satisfied 

 that they represented the matured opinions of the author, based upon well- 

 digested facts. Such unhappily is not the case ; for the views expressed on 

 different occasions are found to fluctuate according to the particular theory 

 which may have been in posse siou of his mind at the time of writing; and 

 are often diametrically opposed to each other. That I may not seem to wan- 

 tonly criticise one of the most brilliant lights that has ever shed its radiance 

 upon Ornithology, to whom alas ! it was not permitted to finish his last great 

 work, I may be allowed to sustain myself by a simple comparison of the 

 " Conspectus " with the Table of the Longipennines published in the Comp- 

 tes Rendus. The fasciculi of the former which treat of the Petrels bear date 

 of Dec, 1855, and Jan., 1856 ; the latter is of the seance of April 28, 1856. I 

 only cite some of the more glaring discrepancies of generic arrangement and 

 distribution of species ; for concealing synonyma it may be stated that as a 

 general rule conflicting views are entertained on all debatable points. 



* The ti ue relationship of this genus is still with lue a mutter of some uncertainty. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



C. A. Genus Majaqueua placed among the Pvffinece ; Pterodroma and Pa- 

 godroma among ih.e JEstrelatece. — C R. These three genera placed among the 

 Fulmarece. 



C. A. Priocella Garnofii, H. and J. (= Thalassoica glacialoides according 

 to Gray) not recognized. — C. R. Given as a valid genus and species of Ful- 

 marece. 



C. A. Proc. meridionalis Lawr. considered as a synonym of JEstrelata dia- 

 holicri. — C. R. Given as a valid species of genus Fulmarus. 



C. A. Genus Adamastor founded and considered as a component of tlin 

 Fulmarece., with ti/pus Bp. (—cinerea Gm.) sericeiis Less, and flavirostris Gould, 

 as its species. — C. R. Genus Adamastor abandoned, and its three species dis- 

 tributed thus : — typus (here called cinerea Gm.) is put under Priqfinus* 

 among the Puffins ; flavirostris and sericeas (the latter queried as to validity) 

 are put under ^Estrelata of the " Rhantisteie.'" 



C. A. Genus Cookilaria established with leucoptera Gould, velox Soland., 

 S'^landri Gould, and mollis Gould, as its species. — C. R. Cookilaria abandoned, 

 Rhantistes ex Kaupf taken, with Coohii Gray, velox Sol. mollis, "unicolor," 

 " raolensis " Gould, and Lessoni Garnot as determined species ; rostrata, par- 

 virostris Peale, gelida Gm. and sandaliata Sol. as doubtful species. 



C. A. Genus yEstrelata contains diabolica L'Herm. (syn. haesitata Temm. 

 Kuhl,) desnlata Gm. inexpectafa Forst. {=:mol.lis Gould) and leucocephala 

 Forst. (^=Lessoni Ga,niot.) — 0. R. The same genus is made to conihin diabo I iccr 

 L'Herm. hcesitata Temm. (here considered distinct from diabolica,) sericeo 

 Less, flavirostris Gould, desolata Lath. ; with gularis and brevipes Peale, and 

 inexpcctata Forst. as doubtful species. 



C. A. Genus Nectris Bp. emend, ex Forst. contains brevicauda Brandt, car- 

 neipes Gould, fldiginosus Strickl. gccma Bp. and tcnuirostris Temm. — C. R. 

 N'Ctris abandoned, and its species thus distributed : breriraudu^i SLud carneipes 

 are put with cinereus Gm. under Prioflmis H, & J. ; fuliginosa Strickl. is 

 made a queried synonym of Puifiaus major Faber ; gama Bp. does not appear ; 

 while teniiirostris is united with sphenurus, etc., under thegenis Tliiellns. 



However great the changes and innovations thus introduced, — which are 

 indeed '* une foule des faits nouveaux relatifs a la classification, a la nomen- 

 clature, ii la synonymie, et aux divers rapports des especes," resulting "de 

 leur dtude approfondie "J between Dec. 1855 and April 1856, I am unwilling 

 to believe that the '* Table " is drawn up with reference to the size and shape 

 of the Comptes Rendus page, ratber than in accordance with truth. 



The numerous difficulties which beset us in the critical investigation cf any 

 group otthe Petrels, reach their maxin^um in the section now under considera- 

 tion. This is in a measure due to the habitat of most of the species — the 

 genera being essentially South Pacific and Antarctic in their distribution — which 

 renders the acquisition of specimens difficult, at least in such numbers as to 

 enable extended comparisons to be instituted, and the great changes of plu- 

 mage which a majority of the species undergo with increasing age, to be fully 

 and accurately elucidated. Some are to this day known only by type speci- 

 mens ; while of many others we are no more familiar regarding variable 

 features of coloration, than to enable us to speak in the most general terms of 

 the changes undergone during progress towards maturity. But these aie 

 among the minor evils to be contended with; for Nature herself is perhaps 

 never so difficult of comprehension, as we often find our attempts to under- 

 stand her to be. And so the confounding of distinct species under one name 

 and description ; the inaking of nominal ones out of changes of plumage and 

 variations in size ; together with the misinterpretation by writers of the labors 



♦ Tliis ig an important correction. '• Priofinv^s cinereus " is the proper name of the species called 

 in the 0. A. '■^Adamastor tt/pus." 

 ■f This name of Kaup'p is a synonym of Fulmarus Leach. 

 t Bp. C. R. April 28, 1856, p. 7t7. 



1866.] 




186 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of their predecessors, have produced a bibliography so emhronUUe as to defy 

 our most patient efi'orts to completely unravel the entangled skein, and to 

 cause ns to turn with weariness if not disgust from the hopeless task. The 

 necessity whiih exists for the study — I use the word advisedly — of synonyma, 

 is the opprobrium of ornithology ; and the kind of labor demanded for their 

 elucidation is far removed from the real pursuit of science itself. At the same 

 time, while an inevitab'e, it is too often a thankless labor, and one hardly ap- 

 preciated ; the results of which are usually incommensurate with the time 

 and trouble expended. Collocation of synonyma is by no means mere clerical 

 compilation. It is a species of investigation which, to be productive of any 

 value, demands a sound judgment and powers of discrimination perhaps of 

 as high a grade as those required for the successful study of genera and spe- 

 cies. But it does not often bring to its author such rewards as are willingly 

 granted him who elucidates other classes of facts in Natural History. For as 

 i's chief duty is to deal with disputed points, it enters an arena where more 

 conspicuously figure not facts but rather opinions ; concerning which the 

 right of arbitration is yielded by no man to another, The synonymist must 

 ordinarily expect acquiescence with his views from those only whose ideas are 

 not jostled by the opinions he advances. 



It is impossible to pursue a critical investigation of the ProceUariifhe with- 

 out being impressed by these facts ; which must be my only weapon wherewith 

 to turn the edge of criticism from my efforts towards the elucidation of the 

 family. No one can be more painfully aware of the errors of omission and 

 doubtless also of commission, which must be met within these papers; and 

 none can be less tenacious of debatable views, or more ready to relinquish 

 opinions when proof of their fallacy is made apparent. I only ask a thorough 

 examination before a condemnatory fiat is passed upon any of the views enter- 

 tained which may be at variance with current opinions. 



As a rule I have adopted for species no name to which any doubt as to 

 identity attaches ; while those still open to discussion I have endeavored to 

 treat of solely with reference to their intrinsic merits, no extraneous claims to 

 our consideration being acknowledged. I regret the necessity of frequent 

 citations of manuscript names and unpublished drawings, which we are by no 

 means bound to recognize; but which have become so interwoven with the 

 bibliography of the family, that it is impossible to avoid so doing. 



The present paper, like others of mine, is doubtless amenable to the charge 

 of '* discursivene-s." This fault, if it be one, is certainly of that class which 

 "lean to virtue's side ; " and one which at present I feel indisposed to cor- 

 rect. Words are cheap enough ; and had they not been so parsimoniously 

 doled out in the earlier days of ornithology, there would now be less need of 

 a profuse expenditure of them. 



The jEstrclate-r, as I regard them, are composed of three genera, which may 

 be briefly diagnosticated as follows : — 



A. Tail much graduated, or cuneiform. 



I. Bill robust, compressed, the unguis large, and curved 

 from the nostrils. Extension of feathers on forehead 



normal. Hallux small. Nostrils short ^strelata. 



B. Tail slightly rounded. 



II. Bill stout, compressed, unguis large, nostrils short. 

 Forehead low, flat, the feathers encroaching far on the 

 b'll. Interramal space feathered. Hallux large and 



stout Pagodroma. 



III. Bill greatly dilated. Nostrils long. Feathers on 

 forehead normal in extension. Unguis small and weak. 

 Interramal space partially naked. Hallux ordinary... Daption. 



Color also affords us an excellent artificial index to these genera. Thus 

 ^.strelata is bicolor or fuliginous ; Pagodroma is uaicolor, white ; and Daption 

 is spotted with light and dark colors. 



[May, 



t 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



The first of these genera, after the fusion with it of those of Bonaparte 

 already adverted to, is quite an extensive one, comprising more species than 

 any other of the family. In this paper I enumerate eighteen, which appear 

 to have just claim to recognition. At the same time some of them, as I inti- 

 mate, may not be valid, while I am quite willing to believe that there may 

 exist good species of which no cognizance is here taken. 



^.STRELATA Coues, [emend. exBp.] 

 Procellaria sp. Auctorum. 



Daption sp. Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. 1825. 

 Paffinus sp. Webb and Berthelot, Av. Canar. 1836—44. 

 O.'istfraga sp. et Thalassoica sp. Reichenbach, Syst. Av. 

 jEstrelata, Bonap. C. A. 1855, ii. p. 188. Type Proc. hcpsitata, Temm. 

 Cookilaria, Bonap. C. A. 1855, ii. p. 190. Type Proc. Cookii, Gray. 

 Pterodroma, Bonap. C. A. 1855, ii. p. 191. Tvpe Proc. macropUra^ Smith. 

 Bulweria, **Bp. 1836." (Gray.) Bp. C. A. 1856, ii. p. 194. Type Pwjf. col- 



umbinus, Webb and Berthelot. 

 Rhantistes, Bonap. Compt. Rend., April, 1856, xiii. p. 768. Type Proc. Cookii 

 Gray. (Not of Kaup, 1829, the type of which latter is Proc. glacialis, 

 Lion.) 



Chs. — Bill about as long as the tarsus ; very stout ; compressed ; higher 

 than broad throughout ; lateral outlines nearly straight, converging to the 

 much compressed unguis. Unguis particularly large, strong, its upper out- 

 line very convex, its tip greatly decurved ; arising almost immediately from 

 the end of the nasal tubes, leaving but a very brief and quite concave culmen 

 proper. Lateral element of the bill very strong ; rising high up at the root of 

 the nasal case ; somewhat inflated throughout ; and with a strongly convex 

 inferior border ; which with the great decurvature of the unguis produces an 

 extremely sinuate commissure ; outline of lower mandible nearly straight ; of 

 gonys a little concave ; eminentia symphysis well marked. Sulci on both 

 upper and under mandibles distinct. Nasal tubes of moderate length, eleva- 

 ted, conspicuous, not carinated, dorsal outline about straight, apex more or 

 less vertically truncated, orifice subcircular, each naris oval, separated from 

 its fellow by a thin vertical portion which comes well forward. Interramal 

 space narrow, fully feathered. Wings comparatively longer than in most 

 sections, surpassing the tail when folded ; pointed ; but the second primary 

 nearly as long as the first. Tail long, and much graduated ; sometimes almost 

 cuneate, usually much rounded; the rectrices quite broad to their tips. Fe^^t 

 of moderate size ; tarsus moderately compressed, with the ordinary small 

 subhexagonal reticulations; about as long as or a little less than the middle 

 toe without its claw. Outer toe rather surpassing tlie middle ; with its claw 

 about equalling the middle and claw. Tip of inner claw reaching base of middle 

 one. Hallux short, sessile, conical, acute, elevated. Of moderate and rather 

 small size ; bicolor, or nearly so ; in youth nearly unicolor. 



The genus yEstrelata as thus defined is quite an extensive one, comprising 

 a larger number of species than any other of the family. In its geographical 

 distribution, it is essentially southern and antarctic ; only a very few of the 

 eighteen or more known to compose it being found in north temperate lati- 

 tudes. The numerous species all agree in certain points which separate them 

 from others ; the principal of which is the large size and great convexity of 

 the unguis of the bill : which begins to rise almost immediately from the 

 nasal case. Other peculiarities will be noted in the above diagnosis ; which 

 have caused the species to be put in intimate relation to each other when col- 

 located even by those writers who recognize but one, or at most three or four 

 genera of Procellariince. 



Taking the hxsitata as the type of the genus, we find that most of the 

 species, — Lessoni, ro.strata, etc. agree entirely with it : while some others, 

 e. g. Cookii, dilfer in being smaller and more slenderly built, with rather less 



1866.] 




188 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



robust bills, somewhat longer and more poititt^d wings, etc. These latter 

 rharaotera have been made ty|>i( al of a distinct gemis by Bonaparte. The 

 gradation, however, in these and all other features is so gradual, through 

 several intermediate forms, that I do not see how we are to draw the dividing 

 line. Bonaparte moreover includes in Cookilaria such a species as Solandri, 

 which is particularly a robust bird. 



Throwing out of consideration the fuliginous " Pterodroraine " group, we 

 find that the other species oiyE<trelata adhere quite closely to a particular pat- 

 tern of coloration. When adult they are dark colored above, being of some 

 shade of brown or black, with more or less of an admixture of cinereous, and 

 generally have a white forehead. The color of the upper parts extends on the 

 sides of the breast ; otherwise the under parts are wholly white. When 

 joung, the color of the under parts does not diller very notably as a general 

 rule from that of the upper : the white being obscured by a dusky, fuliginous 

 or cinereous clouding of the tips of all the feathers, the basal portions of which 

 remain white. In general tlie younger the bird the more uniform, or more 

 tending towards fuliginous are its colors: while in adult life light and dark 

 colors occupy distinct areas, and are quite trenchantly defined. 



When we consider, therefore, the great change which the plumage under- 

 goes in the bird's progress towards maturity, together with the similarity 

 that exists between corresponding ages, it will not appear surprising that not 

 only very numerous nominal species should have arisen, but that names of 

 species should have been frequently misapplied to others than those to which 

 they rightly belong ; producing a confusion in the synonymy certainly not 

 surpassed, if indeed equalled, in any other genus in ornithology. A number 

 of the species were first brought into notice by voyagers ; and when named by 

 professed naturalists it was at a time when the neces-ity of detailed descrip- 

 tions was not appreciated, so that the nice points of size and proportion which 

 really distinguish the species more than color, were rarely presented. The 

 consequence is that it is now impossible to identify many of the older names 

 with any degree of certainty, except perhaps by incidental or collateral testi- 

 mony ; and to this day a great many identifications remain matters of opinion 

 rather than of fact. 



Nor is the confusion and uncertainty by any means less in the fuliginous 

 group which goes to compose this genus. Its components, so far as we know, 

 are in every age unicolor ; and are absolutely indistinguishable except by 

 form and dimensions. This alone would have been amply sufficient for the 

 production of synomyms and malidentifications innumerable ; but this inevi- 

 table result is furthered by another fact. The " genus " Pterodroma is among 

 the uEstrelateoR exactly what Neciris is among the Puffineie ; i. e. composed of 

 species differing in no wise in form from yEstrelata or Pufjfinus, and which are 

 entirely fuliginous in color. Now the points of form separating the species of 

 " Pterodroma " from " Nectris " are by no means patent on a casual examina- 

 tion ; and hence, among the older writers we find many descriptions which 

 it is impossible to refer with any degree of certainty to one or the other genus, 

 of which, in short, we can say no more than that a fuliginous petrel formed 

 the subject of the article. Consequently, some synonyms have ever been oscil- 

 lating as to weight of authority between these two groups. 



I confess to a feeling of surprise, when, on examining critically species 

 typical of Bonaparte's genus Pterodroma, I could find absolutely no points of 

 form whereby it might be held separable from JEatrela'a. I do not think that 

 the skeleton will be found to present any tangible morphological characters, 

 critically examined in its minutest details of intermaxillary bone or phalanges ; 

 nor do the remiges or rectriees in their relative developments offer the 

 slightest discrepancies. We mu^t have recourse therefore to color alone if we 

 would separate them ; and Bonaparte himself gives us no other character 



J 




* NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



whereby we may recognize his genus. I am therefore constrained to unite 

 the so called genus with ^sf.relata.* 



This fuliginous section, then, of yEstrelata, comprehends some four or five 

 species, very widely distributed, as regards latitude ; though, so far as we now 

 know, cliietiy occurring in the tropical and temperate portions of the Atlantic. 

 A new species from Jamaica is being published as I write. f 



With the exception perhaps of A. Bulweri, these are only distinguishable by 

 size and some points of coloration of the feet. 



This latter species differs from the type of " Pterodroma " in the somewhat 

 more elongated and decidedly cuneiform tail, which is hardly contained twice 

 in the wing from the carpal joint ; and perhaps in having comparatively 

 slightly smaller feet. The difference in the tail is no greater than that existing 

 among unquestioned species of yEvtrelata : and in all other points there is an 

 absolute identity of form. This species is the type of Bonaparte's genus 

 Bulwcria, and by him it is placed among the Thalassidromines ; upon what 

 grounds I am at a loss to conjecture. J The " genus " seems to me to bear 

 exactly the same relation to Fterodroma that Thiellus, Grloger, (as defined by 

 Bonaparte to include sjJienurus Gould, and chlororhynchus Lesson), does to 

 Nectris. 



The genus CooJcilaria, founded by Bonaparte upon the Pr. Cookii, Gray, has 

 not evt-n an apology for characters whereon to base claims to recognition. A 

 diagnosis is not attempted by its author ; and a few weeks subsequently the 

 name is dropped; § and Rliantistes\\ substituted, although the species collo- 

 cated under the latter designation are by no means the same as those pre- 

 viously included in Cookilaria. 



The other partial synonyms quoted at the head of this article are merely 

 instances of the reference to them of some of the species included in the genus 

 as it is here defined and limited. Of the several names at our disposal, 

 ALstrelaia has, so far as I can ascertain, the priority. The species given in 

 the following pages include all I have beea able to learn of, through specimens 

 or books, as having just claims to recognition. Very possibly some valid ones 

 are omitted ; and perhaps some now retained may hereafter help to swell the 

 list of synonyms ; that wearisome and vexatious, but inevitable, mass of rub- 

 bish, repelling inquiry, and retarding progress, under the burden of which 

 ornithology now labors. 



^STKELATA H.ESITATA (Kuhl) CoueS. 



Procellaria hcesitata, Kuhl. Mon. Proc. Beit. Zool., 1820, p. 142, No. U, [Excl. 



synon.] — Temminck, Planches Colorees, No. 416. —Lesson, Traite Ornith. 



1831, p. 611, [Excl. synon.]— Newton, Zoologist, x. 1852, p. 3691.— 



Schlegel. Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 13. 

 Jl'JstreJata diahoUca, Bonaparte, Consp. av. ii. 1835, p. 189. ex '^Procellaria 



* This procedure may seem incoiis'stent with the course followed in a previous paper of mine 

 upon the Puffina. It is there, however, explicitly stated that the difiference between Nectris or 

 Thidlus. and I'uffinus, is scarcely aught than that of color, and that these genera " are hardly 

 worth retaining, except it be for convenience's sake." (Page 117 ; and see also pp. 122, 128, 142. 

 143.) The recognition of genera founded upon fuliginous color in this family is perhaps peculiarly 

 to be deprecated ; since some species are known to pass from a fuliginous unicolor to a bicolor 

 state of plumage with incri-asing age; and moreover, it is by no means incontrovertibly proven 

 that Some supposed fuliginous species are not merely immature plumages of others. I most 

 willingly relinquish the position above referred to ; and am now indisposed to degrade, even upon 

 a plea of utility, so harmonious a group as every natural genus forms. 



f Pterodroma carrihiei Carte, P. Z. S. of which I learn through the kindness of Dr. Sclater, but 

 of whose characters I have no means of judging. 



f The species is also included in the genus Thalassidroma by G. R. Gray. Examine in this con- 

 nection my remarks p. S9, of the Proc. Phila. Acad, for 1864, where its affinities are ^hown to be 

 with the .^Istrelatean genus Pterodroma. By a lapsus calami the word " Fulmareae" there appears 

 instead of '^yEstrelatem." 



^ Comptes Rendus, Apr., 1856., xlii. p 7e8. 



if This is merely a misuse of a name of Kaup's founded in 1829 upon the Pr.glacialis, Linn., and 

 therefore a synonym of Fulmarus, Leach, of lb25. (Steph., Shaw's Gen. Zool. 1826, xiii. p. 233.) 



1866.] 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Procel'ario 7neri(iionali.t, Lawrence, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist., Ni^vv York, \v. 1848, 

 p. 475.— Id. Ibid. V. 1852, p. 220, pi. xv. Id. B. Aiuer., 1858, p. 827. 

 [Ex Proc, brerirostris Lawr. olim.] 

 Fulmarus nicridional/s, Bonaparte, Tabl. Gar\ Compt. Rend., 1855. Puffinus 

 L*IIerminieri, Lesson, fide Bp. '* Cat. Mus. A v. Rocheforte, 1843, p. 97(3, 

 sp. 5958." 

 Procdiaria ruhritarsi, Gould, (nomen ined. supprimend.) 



Habitat. — Atlantic ocean, coasts of America and Kurope. The most boreal 

 of the bicolor species of the genus, and the only one hitherto detected on our 

 shores. 



Forvi.* — The bill is about as long as the tarsus; much shorter than the 

 skull ; longer than the middle toe ; very stout ; but slightly higher tlian broad 

 at the base ; moderately compressed in the rest of its extent. The lateral 

 lamina is very strong and large, a little inflated, short, very deep at the base. 

 The unguis is large and strong, and its convexity begins almost from the end 

 of the nasal case, leaving but a very brief and very concave culmen proper. 

 The commissure is extremely sinuate, having several different curves. The 

 unguis of the lower mandible is also strong, its point a little decurved, the 

 gonys convex, the angle at the symphysis acute bat not very prominent. The 

 sulcus on the side of the inferior mandibular ramus is distinctly marked. The 

 nasal case is in length about a fourth of the culmen ; broad, depressed, scarcely 

 carinate ; the orifice large, subcircular ; apex a little obliquely truncated ; each 

 naris oval, with a distinct septum which reaches to the end of the case. The 

 frontal feathers overlap the base of the bill, and descend in a nearly straight 

 line on the sides ; thence rapidly retreating backwards. The feathers on the 

 side of the lower mandible extend much further than to a point perpendicu- 

 larly beneath the furthest extension of those on the upper. The interramal 

 space is fully feathered. 



The folded wings reach a little beyond the end of the tail ; the first primary 

 is longest ; the second nearly equal ; the rest rapidly graduated. 



The tail is very long, being contained scarcely more than twice in the 

 length of the wing from the carpal joint. It is very cuneate in shape ; the 

 central feathers sometimes even projecting slightly beyond the rest. The 

 difference between the median and outer pair of rectrices is fully one and 

 a half inches. 



The tarsi are moderately stout, and very regularly reticulated with small 

 sub-hexa«ronal plates ; largest on its interior aspect. In length it about equals 

 the middle toe without the claw. The outer toe is a little longer than the 

 middle ; but the claw of the latter is so much longer than that of the former, 

 as to make the tips of the two about equal to each other. The tip of the inner 

 claw just reaches the base of the middle one. The latter is a little dilated 

 on its inner aspect. Hallux of the usual shape. 



Color. — On the crown of fully adult birds there is a vertical central area or 

 *' calotte " of blackish brown. The more mature the bird, the smaller is this 

 spot, and the more trenchantly are its edges defined against the white which 

 surrounds it on all sides. But in young or immature birds, — in fact, in the 

 majority of all the specimens we examine, —this perspicuous definition of the 

 dark area is interfered with in this wise : on the front many of the feathers 

 are brownish black, producing a sp)otted or variegated appearance ; and the 

 same dark color, usually somewhat diluted in tint, extends from the crown on 

 to the occiput, nape, and even adown the back of the neck, until it may 

 coalesce with the color of the back. On the sides of the crown the dark color 

 may be generally distributed, merging into the transocular fascia of dark color 

 which always exists. This latter band of color which passes through the eye 

 is in adult birds well defined, and quite distinct from the calotte. In all ages 

 and plumages it is somewhat darker in tint than the crown itself. 



* The description is taken from a specimen in the Philarlelphia Academy; with which is also 

 compared Mr. Lawrence's type of Procellaria meridionalis. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



These simple facts regarding the varying extension of the dark colors of 

 the head and neck, in a species which otherwise is not known to differ 

 materially in plumage, have given rise to descriptions so worded as to be ap- 

 parently quite in conflict with each other. 



Back a nearly uniform clear bistre brown : but most of the feathers often 

 have slightly lighter margins of an ashen hue. The shade of brown of the 

 back deepens on the wings and wing coverts into blackish brown ; which 

 is especially intense in color on the outer webs of the primaries ; their inner 

 vanes being fuliginous brown. 



The distal half of the tail is like the wings in color : the basal half is white, 

 except the outer web of the exterior feather, and to a less extent some portions 

 of the outer webs of the two next ones. A few of the shortest, most anterior 

 upper tail coverts are colored like the back ; the rest are white. On the sides 

 of the flanks a few feathers are touched with brown. 



The upper tail coverts ; the forehead, lores, sides of head, neck,* under wing 

 coverts, (except the row just along the edge of the wing), axillars and whole 

 under parts are white. 



Bill black ; iris brown ; tarsus, first joint of toes, and contained portion of 

 webs flesh-colored ;f rest of webs and toes, with claws and hallux, black. 



In the young bird, the colors generally are rather darker, and tending more 

 strongly towards smoky brown ; but I have never seen a specimen entirely 

 dark-colored below, though such a state of plumage may be found. The head 

 and neck all around, and upper part of the breast, may be concolor with the 

 back, as described under the yourig Lessoni. 



Dimensions. Bill (chord of culmen) 1*45. Nasal tubes -33, (a little more 

 or less). Height of bill at base '68 ; width -60 ; depth at greatest convexity 

 of unguis -60. Wing (average) 12-00 ; tail 5-50 to 5*75. Tarsus 1-45 : outer 

 toe and claw 2-12; middle do., the same; inner 1-75. Gradation of tail 

 about 1-50. 



The subject of the present article bears an intimate resemblance to no other 

 species of Petrel ; and, on this account, it is the more surprising that its 

 synonymy should have become so involved as it will be evident is the case 

 from the succeeding remarks on its bibliography ; and, particularly, it has no 

 sort of resemblance to the Adamastor cinereus, to which its name of ha-sitata has 

 been so often misapplied. Moreover, the species, so far as we know, is not 

 subject to as great changes of plumage as many others of the genus ; its gene- 

 ral asj)ect, as regards color, is not that of the other congeneric species, but 

 rather of Puffinus major ; and why, therefore, its synonymy is so involved is 

 a difficult matter to conjecture. 



Bibliography. The first definite reference to this species which I have found 

 is the Proc. hi€sifata of Kuhl, as above cited. The description given by this 

 author is entirely pertinent, both as to colors and dimensions ; in fact, some 

 expressions quite exclude any other species. Dr. Kuhl also speaks of his 

 specimen as being "in musseo BuUockiano, nunc in Temminckiano, " so that, 

 very probably — though I can by no means speak with certainty — his bird was 

 the very individual which furnished the subject for PL Col. 416 of Temminck ; 

 an accurate figure now universally referred to as representing this species. 



At the outset we thus have a very definite starting-point in discussing the 

 synonyms of this species; but, most unfortunately, Dr. Kuhl adduces as syn- 

 onyms of his ha'sitata two references^ to Forster's unpublished drawings, and 

 cites Forster as authority for the species. Whereas, neither of these draw- 

 ings refer to the bird now under discussion ; and the first published use of the 



•Neck all around (adults): on sides only (young;) white. 



t Dull yelluwish in the dried state. 



j'-Fo:8ter, tab. 97;" and 'tab. 98, sub nomine Procellariae leucocephalae." Mr. A. Newton, 

 (Zoologist, X. p. 3696,) tells us that No. 97 is the viollis of Gould, called hiesitata : No. 98, the 

 Lessoni of Garnot, called leucocephala ; and without opportunity of examining these drawings, I 

 rely upon Mr. Newton's authority. 



3866.] 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



name lursita'a by Forator was to indicate a very different bird ;* not an ylCsfre- 

 Inta at all, but one of the Paffinem. These unfortunate citations have ever 

 since been the cause of a sort of double employ of the name by ornitholo- 

 gists. The synonyms at the head of this article, taken in connection with 

 those given under Adnmastor cinerem, (Pr. A. N. S., 18(j4, p. 119,) contain 

 most of the references of consequence which bear on the question. 



One must not fail to consult in this connection Mr. A. Newton's very 

 thorough and lucid exposition of the bibliography, as well as an accurate 

 description, of this species, given in the "Zoologist," as above cited, on the 

 occasion of the first introduction of the bird into the British Avifauna. Some 

 very important corrections and verifications are there presented. 



The name hfesitata Forst. had been long in existence, in manuscript, for a 

 species very different from the present; but being first published, (in 1820, 

 when we first gained the right of recognizing it,; by Dr. Kuhl, for the 

 species now under consideration, it must necessarily stand in this connection. 

 I do not see, therefore, why Bonaparte supersedes it by diaholicn of L'Her- 

 minier. This latter quotation, as well as the reference to a Puffinus L^Her- 

 minieri of Lesson, I present on the authority of Bonaparte, not having the 

 opportunity of verifying them personally. The name *' rubritarsi " of Mr. 

 Gould is to be suppressed as unpublished by him, and, moreover, as con- 

 veying an erroneous impression regarding the color of the feet. 



The ha'sitata of Lesson's Traite, p. 611, is this species ; but the author 

 erroneously cites hcesitata Forst. and leucocepha/.a Forst. as synonyms. 



I have before me the type specimen of Procellaria meridional is, kindly 

 transmitted to me for examination by Mr. Lawrence. It is an example of 

 ^■Estrelata hcesitata ; as, indeed, Mr. Lawrence himself suspects may be the 

 case. (B. N. Amer., text of p. 827.) Any differences which may exist in 

 the specimen in question, from the figure given by Mr. Newton in the Zoolo- 

 gist, seem rather accidental than real. This same individual had been for- 

 merly called " brevirostris " by Mr. Lawrence — a name preoccupied by M. 

 Lesson for a fuliginous species of ^^ Pterody-oma,^' Mr. Lawrence enumerates 

 with entire accuracy the synonyms of this species under head of Proc. meri- 

 dionalis, in the Birds of North America, p. 827. The name hmsitata, as em- 

 ployed by Mr. Lawrence, and also by Mr. Gould, refers to the Adamastor 

 cinereus, and not to the present species. 



I have not met with any names or descriptions published during the 

 eighteenth century which are definitely referrible to this species ; and, if 

 there be any other synonyms than those above commented upon, they have 

 not been brought sufficiently into notice to r quire recognition in this con- 

 nection. The chief point is to be able to decide, without hesitation, to what 

 /nesitata, as used by different authors, really refers. f 



u^sTRELATA Lessoni (Gamot) Cassin. 



Procellaria Lessoni, Garnot, Ann. Sc. Nat., 1826, vii. p. 54, fig. 4, (mala.) 

 South Pacific, Cape Horn, lat. 52^^, long. 85w. Lesson, Traite Orn., 

 1831, p. 611. Gould, B. Aust., pi. 49, (accuratissima et pulcher- 

 rima.) Reichenbach, Syst. a v. tab. 24, fig. 2605 ; et tab. 20, fig. 339, 

 and of authors generally. 



^strelata Lessoni, Cassin, Cat. Bds. Nortb Pac. U. S. Expl. Exped. in Pr. 

 A. N. S. Ph., 1862, p. 327. South Indian Ocean. 



Rhantistes Lessoni, Bonaparte, Comptes Rend. xlii. 1856, p. 768. 



Procellaria leucocephala, Forster, Ed. Licht. Descr. Anim., 1844, p. 206, sp. 



•T> wit, the Adamastor cinereus, ex Proc. cincrea Gm. Lath. Compare carefully, 5n this con- 

 nection, my remarks, pp. 119, and 128, of the Philadelphia Academy Pruceedings for 1864. 



t For convenience of reference: /*. hiesitata ot Kuhl, Temminck, Lesson," Newton, Schlegel, 

 BjHaparte, and of some other authors, is the JEstreJala hiexitata of this paper. P. heesitata of 

 Forster, Gould, Reichenb;ijh, Lawrence, is tne AUaniastor cinereus of Pr. A. N. S. Ph., 1862, 

 p. 119. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



177. New Holland to Cape Horn. Gould, Am. et Mag. Nat. Hist. xiii. 

 1844, p. 363. From Cape of Good Hope to Van Diemen's Land. 

 ^E^trelata hucocephala, Bonap. C. A., 1856, ii. p. 189. 

 ? Procellaria alba, Gmelin, S. N. i. pars ii. 1788, p. 565. Vieill. Nouv. Diet. 



1817, xxvii. p. 420. 

 ? Daption album, Shaw, Gen. Zool., 1825, xiii. p. 246. 

 ? Procellaria variegata, Bonnserte, fide Bp. 

 Procellaria vagahunda, Solander, Mss. fide Bp. 



Habitat. — South Pacific and Indian Oceans. 



Form.* Bill much shorter than the skull, but slightly less than the tarsus, 

 about two-thirds the middle toe and claw ; very robust, as broad as high at 

 the base, compressed in the rest of its extent. Unguis of upper mandible 

 very large, strong, deep, convex, much decurved, the tip acute ; the elevation 

 of the unguis beginning so near the nasal tubes as to leave but a short and 

 very concave extent of culmen proper. Lateral laminse large, strong, wide, 

 inflated, deep at the base ; superior margin nearly straight, running obliquely 

 downwards and forwards from the frontal feathers to the commissural edge of 

 the unguis ; its lower margin sharp, a little inflected, very convex in outline. 

 The commissure is not very sinuate from the angle of the gape to the unguis. 

 The under mandible has a very distinct and deep lateral sulcus, which is 

 widened at both ends. The inferior unguis is large and strong, its tip much 

 decurved and acute, its gonys very concave, its angle at the symphysis pro- 

 minent but not acute. The outline of the inferior mandibular rami is a little 

 concave ; the interramal space is feathered nearly to the symphysis. The 

 nasal tubes are short, broad, somewhat depressed, their outline nearly 

 straight and ascending a little from base to apex ; the latter obliquely trun- 

 cated and emarginated. The frontal feathers overlap the culmen, nearly in a 

 straight line or with a slightly convex outline ; thence immediately retreating 

 gradually backwards as they descend the sides of the bill. Those on the 

 lower mandible do not extend further than a point perpendicularly below 

 those on the culmen. 



The wing is of the ordinary length and shape. The tail is comparatively a 

 little shorter and less graduated than in hee.sitata, and is contained a little 

 more than twice in the wing from the carpal joint. 



The tibiae are feathered to within half an inch of the joint. The tarsi are 

 short, about three-fifths the middle toe and claw, moderately stout, but little 

 compressed, with the usual small subhexagonal reticulations. The tip of the 

 inner claw just reaches the base of the middle one. Outer toe longer than 

 the middle ; but the tip of its claw does not quite reach to the tip of the 

 middle one. Claws all long slender, little curved, acute, compressed, the 

 middle one somewhat dilated on its inner edge. Hallux short, slender, 

 straight, acute, conical, sessile. 



Color. Bill pure intense black. Tarsi, and basal half or more of the toes 

 and webs flesh-colored ; yellowish when dried. Rest of toes and webs, in- 

 cluding the whole aspect of the outer toe, blackish. 



The head all around and the whole under parts are pure white. But a well- 

 defined bar of slaty or cinereous black passes through the eye. The upper 

 tail coverts and superior surface of the tail are clouded with light grayish 

 cinereous. On the nape the white of the head begins to be shaded with 

 pearly gray which deepens as it descends adown the back of the neck on the 

 interscapulars and dorsal parts generally into grayish slate ; which again 

 lightens on the rump. This color varies much as to intensity or dilution ; 

 but is never as dark as the wings. Both surfaces of the wings are deep slaty 

 black: the greater coverts inclining to dark slaty gray: tlie under surface 

 rather duller in color than the upper ; the prevailing color changing gradually 



• These descriptions of old and young are from Bpecimens in the Philadelphia Actidemy and 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



1866.] 




144 PROOEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



into dull Itrownisli gray on the edges of the inner webs of the primaries. 

 Some of the under wing coverts are edged and tipped with grayish white. A 

 few of tlie long axillars are cliiefly wliito with their terminal portions slaty. 



The preceding description is taken from a specimen from the South Indian 

 Ocean, mentioned by Mr. Cassin in the Proceedings, as above cited. The fol- 

 lowing is from one of the specimens taken by Mr. Peale, one of the natural- 

 ists of the United States Exploring Expedition under Com. Wilkes. The 

 specimen in question is labelled in Mr. Cassin's hand-writing "P. Lessonii 

 Garuot:" and while absolutely identical in form with the species as usually 

 known and recognized presents the following exceedingly different colors : — 

 Young. No. 15709, Smiths. Register. Terra del Fuego, T. 11. Peale. 

 Entire upper parts dusky fuliginous brown ; the dorsal feathers usually 

 with somewhat light margins ; the color deepening on the wings and tail into 

 brownish black. Some of tlie secondaries, tertials and upper coverts have a 

 slight cinereous tinge. On the head and nape the brown is lighter than else- 

 where ; and a somewhat diluted shade of this color extends adown the throat, 

 thus completely enveloping the head : and occupies likewise the upper half 

 of the breast, quite across, as well as all the sides under the winirs. On the 

 crissum, and especially on all the under tail coverts except immediately 

 around the anus, the color again deepens into brownish black. The rest ot 

 the under parts are whit©. The circumocular region is darker than the 

 adjacent parts. 



The foregoing is the most immature plumage known to me, and it will be 

 noticed that not only the colors themselves, but the pattern of coloration is 

 radically distinct from those of the adults. In some specimens is recogniz- 

 able a faint shade of a darker color on the tips of the feathers of the other- 

 wise white under parts ; whence I infer that in very young birds the whole 

 under parts may be brownish or grayish. 



Dimensions. Chord of culmen 1*50; width or height at base '60; nasal 

 tubes -25 ; from feathers on side of lower mandible to its tip 115 ; along 

 rictus 2-00. Tarsus l-()5 ; middle toe and claw 2-50 ; outer do. 2*40 ; inner 

 do. 2-10. Wing 11-50 to 12 00. Tail 5-00 to 5-50. Graduation of lateral 

 feathers rather more than an inch. 



Synoni/ma. Among the older authors, I only find one name — alba, of 

 Gmelin and Latham — which seems at all referrible to this spf-cies. P. alba is 

 evidently an yEsfrelata, of about the size of Les.>oni, and the colors as 

 described apply tolerably well to a somewhat immature example of this spe- 

 cies. But there is nothing in the diagnoses of either of these authors which 

 absolutely restricts the name to the P. Lessoni ; and, therefore, in the uncer- 

 tainty, 1 would by no means supersede M. Garnot's appellation Lessoni, the 

 description of which is quite pertinent. I believe Mr. Cassin, in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Philadelphia Academy, as above, was the first to refer the bird to 

 its proper genus. 



The Frocellaria leucocephala of Forster is certainly this species. His 

 description is in every respect pertinent to the adult bird. Although the 

 name had been used, in manuscript, as applied to Drawing No. 98, for many 

 years, it was not published until 1844, and, consequently is antedated by 

 Les-ioni of Garnot, (1826). Forster's editor, Dr. Lichtenstein, says, probably 

 correctly, that leucocephala Forst. is the alba Gm. ; but certainly incorrectly 

 that " vix nisi setate difTerre videtur a Proc. hiesitata Forst. ;" whereas hcesi- 

 tata Forst. is not even congeneric with leuc cephala. 



I am unable to discuss the synonyms variegata, Bonnserte, and vagabunda 

 Solander, which I quote on the authority of Bonaparte. 



-^STRELATA ROSTKATA (Peale) Gray. 



Frocellaria rostrata, Peale, Zool. U. S. Expl. Exped. 1848, p. 296. Cassin, 



Ornith. U. S. Expl. Exped. 1858, p. 412. 

 Rhantistes rostrata, Bp. Compt. Rend. 1856, xlii. p. 768. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHrLVDELPHIA. 145 



Procellaria {yEstrelata) rostrata, G. R. Gray, Cat. Bds. Paeif. Isl. 1859, p. 56. 



Habitat.— "I ohxii. (Peale.) 



The following detailed description of this little known and hardly recognized 

 species is taken from Mr. Peale's type specimen, now before me. 



Form. — The bill is much shorter than the head or tarsus, about two-thirdS' 

 the middle toe without its claw ; exceedingly robust, especially at the base 

 where it is as hi^h as broad, and where its height is nearly equal to half the 

 length of the culmen. The lateral laminae of the upper mandible are very 

 wide and large ; especially basally, where their upper margins rise so high as 

 to be nearly on a level witli the dorsum of the nasal case, the tubes being 

 thus almost buried between the laminse. In consequence of this shape of the 

 lateral laminse the sulcus is extremely sinuate, extending from the top of the 

 root of the nasal case to the commissural edge of the unguis, near its middle. 

 The inferior edge of the laminse, forming in great part the cutting edge of the 

 upper mandible, is decidedly convex in outline. The unguis is large and 

 strong, and its elevation, which begins almost directly from the termination 

 of the nasal case, as well as its convexity and decurvation, are very great. 

 The under mandible is straight, its sulcus strongly pronounced, its tip de- 

 curved and acute, its unguis large, its gonys quite concave, though there is 

 but a slight protuberance at the symphysis. 



The nasal tube is short, wide, depressed, turgid, not carinated, convex iu 

 outline both antero-posteriorly and transversely ; its apex obliquely truncated, 

 broad, depressed, not emarginated, the nares circular, separated from each 

 other by a rather thick septum which comes forward to the very end of the 

 nasal case. The frontal featuers encroach far upon the dorsum of the tubes, 

 with a rounded termination, and then slope gradually backwards and down- 

 wards.* The feathers on the sides of the lower mandible do not extend to a 

 point perpendicularly below the apex of the frontal feathers. 



The wings are long, the first primary considerably surpassing the second ; 

 and when folded they reach considerably beyond the end of the tail. The 

 latter is of moderate length, contained rather more than twice in the length 

 of the wing from the carpus ; and it is much graduated in shape. 



The feet are comparatively large for the size of the bird, absolutely about 

 equalling those of Lessoni, which is a larger bird. The relative proportions 

 of the tarsus and toes are much the same as in other species. The hallux is 

 rather long, slender and acute. 



Dimension.'^. — Length about 14 inches, ''extent 39-50," (Peale.) Wing 11 ;. 

 tail 4'75 ; bill along chord of culmen 1-37 ; heighth or width at base -dQ ; nasal 

 tubes -25; from feathers on side of lower mandible to its tip 1*20. Tarsus 

 1*75 ; middle toe and claw 2-25, outer do. 2-12 ; inner do. 1*80 ; hallux -25. 

 From apex of longest secondary to tip of longest primary in the closed wing 

 3-25. 



Color. — Entire upper parts pure deep blackish brown, including the under 

 surfaces of the wings and tail feathers ; everywhere of a nearly uniform tint ; 

 but a little darkest on the outer webs and tips of the primaries, and somewhat 

 lighter on their inner webs, especially towards their bases. This color of the 

 upper parts extends around the sides of the head, neck and breast ; but be- 

 comes on the chin, throat and breast a little paler ; and includes the sides 

 under the wings, and crissum. Rest of under parts, including the under tail 

 reverts, pure white ; the latter however have a few isolated brownish streaks. 

 The line of demarcation between the dark and light colors on the breast is not 

 very trenchant. The bill is black. The tarsi are pale yellow ; probably flesh 

 colored in life. A small space on the lower part of their external aspect, and 

 the whole toes and webs (except a small yellow spot on the inner web near 

 its base) are black. 



This color of the upper parts is a pure very dark brown, with no mixture- 



*Tni8 outline uf the feathers on the bill shows an approach to that seen in Fagodroma, iind ia- 

 q tite (lifFurent liom unything that obtains iu the other species of the genus ^strtlata, 



1866.] 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



whatever of ashen, gray or plumbeous. The distribution of colors is almost 

 exactly that ot the species of Caidractes. 



I do not think that the plumage above given is that of the adult ; it so 

 closely resembles that of the immature yf*/\ Lessoni, which is its nearest ally. 

 It is the only one, however, of which we have at present any knowledge. 



I think it most probable that this is a valid species. There is none to which 

 it bears any very intimate resemblance, except yE. iiiccrta and yE. Lessoni. 

 The relationships of the former will be noticed elsewhere. Compared with a 

 young ylC. Lessoni, in which the size and pattern of coloration are not widely 

 diverse, I find them to dill'er as follows : The upper parts of rostrata are of a 

 deeper, purer brown. The under tail coverts are almost wholly white; those 

 of Lessoni wholly dark colored except immediately about the anus. Rostrata 

 is a smaller bird, the wing being an inch, the tail rather more than an inch 

 shorter ; but the feet are absolutely of the same size, and therefore compara- 

 tively larger. The bills of the two birds are nearly of the same length ; but 

 the radical diflference in the character of the nasal tubes, the degree of tnr- 

 gidity of the base, and the outline of the feathers, as will be evident on com- 

 paring the descriptions given, at once distinguish them. 



It is quite possible that some of the indications of older authors may have 

 reference to this species ; but in the utter impossibility of establishing any 

 such with certainty I think it best to assign no synonym whatever. 



^STBELATA PARViEOSTRis (Peale) Coues. 

 ProceUaria parvirostris, Peale, Zool. U. S. Expl. Exp. 1848, p. 298 Cassin, 

 Ornith. U. S. Expl. Exped. 1858, p. 411. G. R. Gray, Cat. Birds Pacif. 

 Isl. 1859, p. 5(5. 

 Jlhantistes parvirostris, Bp. C. R. 185G, Ixii. p. 768. 



Habitat. — Honden Island. 



As in the case of uE. rostrata I describe this supposed species from Mr. 

 Peale's type specimen. 



Form. — Bill much shorter than the head, but very little less than the tarsus, 

 about two-thirds the middle toe ; slender, compressed, considerably higher 

 than broad at the base ; its lateral outline about straight. Nasal tubes much 

 as in mollis.'^ A considerable concavity of culmen between the nares and the 

 elevation of the unguis ; which latter does not rise very high, but is neverthe- 

 less very convex ; much decurved, attenuated and hooked. Sulcus on side of 

 the upper mandible curved, its convexity looking downwards, and greatest 

 near the base of the bill, where the lateral laminae rise high up to embrace 

 the roots of the nasal case. Commissural edge of iipper mandible strongly 

 sinuated. Lower mandible almost exactly as in mollis ; perhaps a trifle slen- 

 derer. Outline of feathers on base of bill just as in mollis. 



The wings are exceedingly long, when folded much surpassing the tail. 

 First and second primaries about equal and longest. Tail of moderate length, 

 contained about 2^ times in the wing. It is greatly graduated, the difference 

 between the external and median rectrices being 1-25 inches. 



The tibise are denuded for nearly half an inch. The plates on both sides of 

 the tarsus are small, irregular and very numerous. The tarsus is a little 

 more than three-fourths as long as the middle toe and claw. The usual pro- 

 portionate lengths of the toes prevail. The claws are all small, weak and 

 little curved. The hallux is minute, straight, not very acute. 



Dimensions. — "Fourteen inches long, by 36 in extent," (Peale.) Wing 11 ; 

 tail 4-50 ; tarsus 1*25 ; bill 1-08 ; outer toe and claw 1*66. From tip of longest 

 secondaries to end of primaries 4'25. Gradation of tail 1-25. 



Colors. — Entire upper parts, including both surfaces of the wings and tail, 

 deep fuliginous brown, (with no trace of ashy or plumbeous) becoming almost 

 black on the outer webs of the primaries, and inclining to grayish fuliginous 



*The tubes of the single specimen have been so injured by pressure or otherwise that they 

 cannot now be accurately described. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 147 



on their inner webs and towards their bases. The head, neck and breast all 

 round are like the back, but not quite so intense in color ; and the dark tint 

 only occupies the extreme tips of the feathers ; while its continuity is also in- 

 terrupted by some whitish spots that show at intervals. There is no distinct 

 line of demarcation between the dark color of the breast, and the pure white 

 which occupies every other portion of the under parts of the bird, with the 

 exception of a few dark brown isolated feathers along the sides under the 

 wings and the crissum, and some streaks on the outer margins of the external 

 under tail coverts. The bill is black ; the tarsi, first digital phalanges, and 

 included portions of interdigital membranes, are dull yellowish, but were 

 probably liesh colored in life. The rest of the webs and toes are black. 



JESTRELATA IXCERTA (Schl.) CoueS. 



Procellaria iiicerta, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 9. 



" Wing 11 inches 5 lines ; point of the wing 3 inches 9 lines. Tail : middle 

 feathers 4 inches 10 lines ; external feathers 3 inches and 3 to 5 lines. Bill : 

 length 16 lines to 17 lines and a half; height 5 lines to 5 lines and a half. 

 Width 6 lines to 6 lines and a half. Length of nasal tube 3 lines and a half. 

 Tarsus 18 lines and a half. • Middle toe 1 inch and 10 to 11 lines. Feet yel- 

 lowish, becoming black upon the two last or the last joints of the toes, with 

 the contained membrane. Head, neck and back brownish gray, clearer and 

 inclining to whitish on the throat or whole under part of the neck. Back, 

 wings and tail blackish brown. Below from the breast, white, mixed with 

 brown on the flanks and becoming brown on the under tail coverts." 



Habitat. — "Southern Oceans, New Zealand, Australia, New Caledonia." 

 [Schlegel.] 



The above is a copy of Dr. Schlegel's description of this supposed species, of 

 which the author further says : "I have not been able to refer this species 

 to any one hitherto described. It appears allied to the Proc. rostrata, Peale, 

 * * but has the under tail coverts dark colored instead of white, and its 

 colors generally are less brownish." It is to be deplored, that in introducing 

 a species into so difficult a family as the present one, a more detailed descrip- 

 tion was not given. 



As well as I can judge by the description, the species is about the size of P. 

 rostrata, but distinguished from the latter by the different color of the under 

 tail coverts, and a less decidedly brown tinge of the upper parts generally. 

 It is probable also that if the bill possessed the turgidity which characterizes 

 that of rostrata, together with the peculiar outline of the frontal feathers, 

 these points would not have escaped the attention of Dr. Schlegel. The bird 

 may pretty safely, then, be separated from rostrata. 



I think that it is to the immature plumage of jEstrelata Lessoni that the 

 species is to be referred, if it be really not valid. There were no recognized 

 specimens of this latter species in the Museum of the Pays-Bas when incerta 

 was founded. It comes in all respects exceedingly near the plumage I des- 

 cribe above as that of the young Lessoni ; so much so that I fail to detect ma- 

 terial discrepancies. Still I should not like to reduce any species founded by 

 a competent naturalist, except by autopsy ; and therefore leave it as described 

 by its author; only desiring to call attention to the necessity of careful com- 

 parison with the plumage of the young Lessoni. 



-^.STRELATA NEGLECTA (Sohl.) COUBS. 



Procellaria neglecta, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 10. 



" Colors of the plumage and of the feet as in /'. incerta. But much smaller 

 in size and with the shafts of the quill feathers whitish. Wiug 10 inches and 

 t) to 11 lines ; point of the wing 4 inches and 1 to 10 lines. Tail 3 inches and 

 8 to 11 lines. Bill : length 13 lines and a half; height 4 to 5 lines ; width 5 

 lines and a half to 6 lines and a half. Length of nasal tubes a little over 2 

 lines. Tarsus 17 lines to 17 and a half. Middle toe 19 lines to 19 and a half." 



1866.] 




148 rROOEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



7/f;7)//a/. — " Pacific Ocean. Kermadeo Islands. Sunday Island." [Schlegol.] 



I can oiler no opinion concerning this 8Uj)posed species, except to state that 



it may possibly he, as Dr. Schlegel himself seems inclined to suspect, the 



.h^str<lat.a pdivirostn's. But this latter species itself is so very near mollis 



Gould, that it may hereafter prove to be only a state of plumage of the latter. 



iEsTRKLATA SoLANDRI (Gould) CoUeS. 



Procellaria Solandri, Gould, P. Z. S., March 26, 1844, p. 57. Gould, Ann. and 

 Mag. N. H. xlii, 1844, p. 363. Gould, Introd. Birds Aust. 1848. p. 116. 

 Coohilaria SoJandri, Bonaparte, C. A. 1S55, ii. p. 190. 

 Procellaria melanopns, Natterer, fide Gould. (Not of Gmelin.) 



"Head, back of the neck, shoulders, primaries and tail dark brown ; back, 

 wing coverts and upper tail coverts slate-gray, each feather margined with 

 dark brown ; face and all the under surface brown, washed with gray on the 

 abdomen ; bill, tarsi, and membranes black. 



"Total length 16 inches; bill 1^; wing 12; tail 5J ; tarsi f ; middle 

 toe and nail 2|." 



The preceding is a copy of Mr. Gould's description of this species. This 

 author further says of it. "This is a remarkably robust and compact bird. 



1 shot a single individual in Bass' Straits, on the loth of March 1839. M. 

 Natterer thought that it might possibly be identical with the bird figured in 

 Banks' drawings, and to which Dr. Solander has affixed the term rjielanopiis, 

 an opinion in which I cannot concur. I have accordingly named it in honor 

 of that celebrated botanist. The specimen above described may possible- 

 prove to be not fully adult, as the dark coloring of the under surface only 

 occupies the extreme tips of the feathers — the basal portions of which are 

 snow-white." 



I have not enjoyed an opportunity of examining a specimen of this species, 

 and none, so far as I am aware, are contained in any American collection. It 

 appears to be exceedingly distinct from any other species of yEstrelata, if not 

 in colors at least in proportions of bill and feet, as compared with the abso- 

 lute size of the bird. The dimensions of these parts as given by Mr. Crould, — 

 ]>articularly the shortness of the tarsi, as compared with the lengths of the 

 toes, are quite different from that of any other species of the genus ; so much 

 so that the bird may not be a true yEstrelata ; upon which point however I 

 cannot now give a definite opinion. The type of the species is doubtless, as 

 Mr. Gould surm ses, not fully adult ; and when mature th« dark coloring of 

 the under parts will in all probability disappear, leaving the whole inferior 

 regions of the body white. The unicolor pattern of the feet is diverse from 

 the ordinary style which prevails in nearly all the species of the genus. 



By Bonaparte the species is referred to his "genus " Coohilaria, though 

 for what reason is not obvious, since Mr. Gould particularly notes thai his 

 species is a " remarkably robust and compact bird," while the type of 

 " Cookilaria " is the leucoptera Gould; almost the very smallest and most 

 gracefully formed species of yE^lrelata. Dr. Schlegel's identification of So- 

 iandri with grisea of Kuhl is elsewhere commented upon. 



JESTKELATA GEISEA (Kuhl) CoueS. 



Procellaria grisea, Kuhl, Mon. Proc. Beit. Zool. 1820, p. 144, No. 15, fig. 9. 

 But not of Latham.* Schlegel. Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas. 1863, p. 

 12; (excluding synonymy ) 



*Lath. i^yu. 1785. iii. part ii. p. 39:^, No. 4. " Size of a jack-daw; length 14 or 15 inches. Bil' 



2 inciies long, and brown; the whole plumage blark or sooty; the under wing coverts white, with 

 Uaik shafts; the win<r.s rather exceed the tnil in length : the forepart of the legs greenish blue. 

 The specimen in theLeverian Museum has the chin and throat of a whitish color. Inhabits the 

 southe n hemisphere from 35° to £0». Seems much allied to the Black IVtrel," {irquinodutlh.) 



This is a species of Latham's which has not so far as I am aware beim identitltd by lator 

 writers ; and 1 find it quite impossible, from the above meagre indication, to come to any definite 

 conclusion regarding it. It is, however, in all probability some species of N' ctris, of the PiiffineiE : 

 Fo that we need not therefore be prevented from using Kuhl's name of grisea for a bird of the 

 gcuaa JE)<trelata. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Procellaria lugens, Forster, icon. 21, according to Kuhl. Banks, tab. 21 and 



22, " ubi rostri forma optime est delineata " according to Kuhl. 

 ^^ yEstrelata inexpectata, Forster," of Bonaparte's Conspectus, ii. p. 189. But 

 not the true ine.tper.iata of Forster which is doubtless mollis, Gould. 



" Bill mucli compressed. Plumage uniform gray, darkest above, and be- 

 coming blackish on the wings. Generally similar to mollis of Gould, but with 

 a more compressed bill, different colors and proportions of some parts, and 

 the feet, including the webs, brownish in the dried state. Wing 9 l-12th 

 inches; central tail feathers 3 ll-12ths, external ones 2 ll-12ths. Bill 11^ 

 lines long : 4 high, 4|- wide. Length of nasal tube rather more than 2 lines. 

 Tarsus lb'| lines. Middle toe 19 lines." 



The preceding description is compiled from the diagnosis of a species given 

 by Dr. Schlegel (as above cited) from the Australian seas. That writer iden- 

 tifies it with the (jrisea of Kuhl, and gives Solanclri of Gould as a synonym. 

 I am unacquainted, autoptically, with any species differing from mollis Gould, 

 by the characters as given by Dr. Schlegel. That gentleman, however, has a 

 specimen indicating such a species, and upon the competent authority of the 

 accomplished Director of the Pays-Bas Museum, I recognize the species as dis- 

 tinct from mollis. The color of the plumage I do not think can be regarded 

 as a constant and valid character, since some ages of mollis present exactly 

 the tints described as those of grisea. The species must therefore be separa- 

 ted, if al all, by the more compressed bill, different colors of the feet, and dif- 

 ferent proportions of some of the parts. Taking Dr. Schlegel's description and 

 specimen as the only tangible basis on which the supposed species I am now 

 treating of rests, there are presented for our consideration the following points 

 of synonymy. 



Attentive study of Kuhl's description of the bird he calls " grisea L.," and 

 examination of his figure (fig. 9) will show clearlj' that it is'by no means the 

 species described by Latham under the name of "Gray Petrel, /-*. f/n',sea." 

 Latham gives the bill as two inches long, while Kuhl's figure delineates a bill 

 measuring just one inch along the chord of the culmen. Other discrepancies 

 are palpable throughout. Latham's grisea appears to be a Nectris, while 

 Kuhl's is an ^Estre/afa very near mollis'. Kuhl himself takes occasion to note 

 some descrepancies between his bird and Latham'.--.* Kuhl's expressions 

 " rostro valde compresso ; * * corpore et tectricibus alarum inferiori- 

 bus ciuerascente fuliginosis, pedibus pallidis " together with his measure- 

 ments, are entirely pertinent to the bird whose characters are given by Dr. 

 Schlegel ; so that the only question is the distinctness of the species from 

 mollis. 



While I thus entirely agree with Dr. Schlegel in this identification of Kuhl's 

 name, I can by no means assent to the referring of Mr. Gould's P. Solanclri to 

 this species. P. ^o/antiri is certainly radically distinct; and so different in 

 its proportions that I cannot understand how Dr. Schlegel could have recon- 

 ciled it with P. grisea. 



Dr. Kuhl (I. c.) says of the P. lugens of Forster (ic. 21) that he considers it the 

 same as grisea ; he also adduces P. lugens Banks, (tab. 21 and 22,) as a syno- 

 nym of the latter. My quotation of these names is entirely upon Dr. Kuhl's 

 authority. 



The ^Estrelata inexpectata of Bonaparte's Conspectus evidently belongs here 

 rather than to the true mollis. The author quotes KuUl's grisea as a synonym ; 

 and the diagnosis he gives presents nothing incompatible with the present 

 species. The true inexpectata of Forster is, I think, mollis, as I attempt else- 

 where to demonstrate. 



As a summary of the preceding remarks I may state that if there be a spe- 



* " In exeraplari meo baud observari quod Lath, de iuftsiioribus alarum tectricibus dicit. 

 Kuhl, p. 144. 



18GG.] 




150 raooEEDiNQs op the academy of 



oie8 of yEstrelata, closely allied to mollis but permanently diflfering from it by 

 those characters laid down by Dr. Schlegel, and of which the specimen in the 

 Museum of the Pays-Bas is an exainple, then the synonyms adduced at tlie 

 head of this article are most properly to be referred to this species ; but other- 

 wise they must be considered as appertaining to mollis. 



iEsTRELATA MOLLIS (Gould) CoueS, 



f ProceJlnria mclanopvs* Gm. S. N. i. p. 562. Lath. Syn. iii. p. 409, No. 12. 

 Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xxvi. 1817, p. 420. ? Pvffinus vielanopn^ Steph. 

 Zool. xiii. p. 231. 

 Procellaria inexpectato, Forster, Descr. Anim. ed Licht. 1844, p. 204, No. 177. 

 Not ^strelata inexpectota of Bp. Consp. which rather appertains to the 

 " <]risea Kuhl " of this paper. 

 Frocellaria moUis, Gould, Ann. et Mag. N. H. 1844, xiii. p. 363. Id. Birds 

 Aust. vii. pi. 50. Cassin U. S. Ex. Exped. Ornith. 1858, 410. Schle- 

 gel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 11. — And of later authors gene- 

 rally. 

 Cookilaria mollis, Bonaparte, C. A. 1855, ii. p. 190. 

 Rhantistes mollis, Bonaparte, Com[/tes Rendus, xiii. 1856, p. 768. 

 ?" Procellaria (jularis,^ Peale, Zool. U. S. Expl. Exped. 1848, p. 299. 

 ? Procellaria Phillipii, G. R. Gray, Ibis, 1862, iv. p. 246. 

 :* P. crepidata ; P sanxlaliata, Solander, according to Bp. 

 Habitat. — South Pacific and Antarctic Oceans. 



Form.X Bill as long or slightly less than the tarsus, nearly equal to the 

 middle toe without its claw ; compressed, a little higher than broad at the 

 base. In the details of its shape it does not diflfer from the typical species of 

 ^Estrelata. The proportions of tarsus and toes are also as in other species of 

 the genus. The tail is only moderately rounded, instead of being decidedly 

 ouneate with some projection of the median rectrices, as in yE.. haisitata ; its 

 length is contained in that of the wing from the carpal joint slightly more 

 than twice. The folded wings reach considerably beyond the tail. The spe- 

 cies in size and general contour of the body approaches Dnption capensis. 



I do not notice that the plumage is softer, fuller, or more mollipilose than 

 in some other species of the genus. 



Color. There is a transocular black fascia, the greater part of which lies 

 below the eye. The clear ashy gray of the upper parts extends over the ver- 

 tex, becoming more or less mixed with white on the front and cheeks, accord- 

 ing to age. Most of the feathers of the back have slightly paler margins. The 

 primaries are nearly concolor in all their extent ; (compare description of No. 

 l.'^,706 Smithsonian Collection, infra ;) being only a little duller or more fuli- 

 ginous on their inner webs. Tiie under surface of the wing is chiefly dusky 

 brownish ; but there is an illy-defined and interrupted area of whitish, par- 

 ticularly towards the bases of the primaries. The upper tail coverts and tail 

 are chiefly concolor with the back ; but some of the outer rectrices are marbled 

 with white. 



In the majority of specimens the color of the back extends on the sides of 

 the breast for a considerable distance; sometimes quite across the middle: 

 but in very adult birds most of the breast is pure white. The color is pro- 

 duced by a clouding of the tips only of the feathers, their basal portions be- 



* The following is Gmelin's diagnosis: "13 pollices longa. Vertex, cauda rotnndata, et alae 

 totSB obscur6 nigrse; dorsum ex atro paulisper canescens ; membrana cligitos connectons parte sui 

 ulterior^, digitoruoique articuli, nigri. 



■\^ 1 eale, as above. "Above cimneous brown; tail and breast plnmbeous; throat, under wing 

 coverts and under tail coverts white. Primaries and spurious quills nearly black with bn)wn 

 phafts ; tail light beneath : two outer feathers mottled with white, * * whoI« under plumage 

 white at the i-o ts ; bill blue-black. Length 13; extent 3i; wing from carpal joint 10^-; bill one 

 inch ; tarsi 120 ; outer toe 1-60 ; tail 3-40." 



X Description from typical examples, received from Mr. Gould, in the Philadelphia Academy. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 151 



ing white ; and often is not uniform in tint, but is minutely undulated or 

 puuctulated with lighter and darker shades. 



The front, lores, lower part of cheeks, and whole under parts, including the 

 lower tail coverts, are white. The lateral rectrices are on their inferior aspect 

 chiefly white, with some light cinereous marbling. 



In general terms it may be stated that the older the bird, the clearer and 

 purer is the cinereous, and the more trenchantly defined are the boundaries 

 of the several differently colored areas ; the difference in this respect being 

 especially notable in the forehead and sides of tlie breast. 



Young birds are all over of a pretty uniform deep brownish ash, or fuligin- 

 ous cinereous ; inclin>Bg to smoky brown on the wings and tail. The whole 

 under parts are not notably different from the back, though, however, the 

 dark color only occupies the tips of the feathers ; their basal moiety remain- 

 ing white. The transocular dark fascia is always present. Bui the chin and 

 face are much mottled with whitish ; and in specimens otherwise wholly dark 

 on the under parts, the chin and throat may be chiefly white, striatulated 

 with ashy brown. 



Moulting specimens, or those in poor plumage from the age and worn con- 

 dition of the feathers, show scarcely a trace of cinereous on the wings and 

 tail, these parts being of a dull brownish, more or less tending to gray. The 

 same tendency to brownish or grayish instead of cinereous is observable ou 

 other parts. Sometimes a pure white chin and throat coexists with complete 

 dusky clouding of the other under parts.* 



The bill and feet hardly differ in color with age. The bill is black ; the 

 tarsus, basal half of inner toe and contained web, flesh colored ; (dull yellow- 

 ish when dry ;) all the rest of the toes and webs, with all the claws, black. 



Dimensions. (No. 1678, Phila. Acad., J. Gould. ) Bill (chord of culmen) 

 1-10. Height at base -45 ; width slightly less. Tarsus 1-33. Outer toe and 

 claw 1-75 ; middle about the same, inner 1-50. Wing average 10-00; but 

 may range from 9-50 to 10-50 ; tail 4*50 ; the graduation of the rectrices about 

 1*30. These are nearly the average dimensions of six examples. 



There is a specimen. No. 15,706, in the Smithsonian Museum from the 

 Antarctic Ocean, by Mr. T. R. Peale, which, with the size and general appear- 

 ance of ?/io///s differs as follows ; The under surfaces of the wings are, except just 

 along the edges, purely and uninterruptedly white ; as much so as in C okii. 

 The inner vanes of all the primaries, instead of being simply duller and grayer 

 than the outer, have trenchantly defined pure white areas ; these white spaces 

 occupy the whole of the webs at the base ; as they extend more towards the 

 apex they become less wide, leaving a narrow space of dark color along the 

 inside of the shafis ; apically they terminate with an acutely pointed outline, 

 which stretches towards the tip of the feather, and is bounded internally and 

 externally by dark colored portions of the feather. The general pattern is 

 exactly that seen in the primaries of most Lari ; and the definition of the two 

 colored areas is as strict. In other respects the bird is like a quite young 

 mollis, being dark colored both above and below ; but the tint of the cloud- 

 ing below is more intensely sooty than in any specimen of typical mollis I have 

 seen ; and there is this peculiarity in addition, that the under tail covertd 

 remain pure white. 



I do not wish to introduce a new name upon the above basis ; though pos-*" 

 sibly in any other family than the very one of the Petrels I would do so. The 

 l)oints which would cons'itute its specific characters are elucidated in the pre- 

 ceding paragraph ; and should the differences above pointed out be substan- 

 tiated as persistent in other specimens, it would, I think, then be proper for 

 the ornithologist who makes the verification to forma'ly introduce the species. 

 The specimen in question before me is the ojily one contained in the United 



*In which condition is the type of " gtilaris" Peale. 



[May, 




152 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMl OP 



States Wilkes' Exploring Expeflition collection ; and is, tlierefore, in all 

 probability, the very individual upon whiuli Mr. Pealo based liis description 

 of gu'aris', which name should, therefore, stand for the species, in the event 

 of it8 proving valid ; even though Peale's description does not notice the 

 peculiar markings? of the primaries. 



Blhlio(]raphii. It is possible that the P. melanopus of Gmelin and Latham 

 was based upon this species. Their bird evidently was an jTJslrelaia, and 

 "thirteen inches long;" and the description of tlie colors would apply pretty 

 we'l to an immature mollis. But moUiH has a bill by no means an inch and a 

 half long: and is not found, so far as we know, *' circa Americani septen- 

 trionalis." The only known North American species of yEsirelata \i the 

 /i(esitat(i ; of which the bill is nearly of the length stated by Latham. Under 

 the circumstances, I do not think this name is to be adopted for ei her species. 



I think there can be no doubt that the inexpectata of Forster is really this 

 species. I find no points of the description, nor any of the measurements, at 

 all incompatible with this supposition. Dr. Lichtenstein refers inexpectataxo 

 (jrisea of Gmelin ; certainly incorrectly, whatever may be its relations to 

 yriaea of Kuhl. 



The name mollis Gould bears the same date of publication as inexpectata, 

 (1844) : so that it is difficult to say which actually has priority. I think, if 

 any choice is allowed us, we should, by all means, use mollis, so definitely 

 characterized and well known. Mr. Gould, in describing the species, says 

 that it had been identified with hijens of Banks, and with. ^^r^^ea of Kuhl (nee 

 Gm.) This may very possibly be the case ; although, for the present, I give 

 (jrisea Kuhl, (of which lugens Banks is a synonym,) as a distinct species, 

 f jr reasons stated elsewhere. 



In the Ibis, as above, Mr. G. R, Gray has a species P. Phillipii from Norfolk 

 Island; based upon the "Norfolk Island Petrel," Phill. Bot. Bay, p. 163 ; 

 with P. alba, var. Lath., and P. rnoUis Gould, as synonyms, the latter queried. 

 "No description is given, and I merely follow Gray himself, in placing the 

 name as a queried synonym of mullis. Vieillot, (Nouv. Diet., xxvi. 1817, p. 

 420,) refers to this same "Norfolk Island Petrel." 



-^STEELATA CooKii (Gray) Coues. 



Pocellaria Coohii. G. R. Gray, Fn. N. Z. App. Dieff. Trav., 1843, ii. p. 199.— 

 Id. Voy. Ereb. and Terror, pt. iii. 1844, pi. 35.— Id. Sclater's Ibis, 

 1862, iv. p. 246. Cassin, U. S. Expl. Exped. Ornith., 1858, p. 414, and 

 of authors. 



Rhantistes Cookii, Bonap. Compt. Rend. xlii. p. 708. 



Procellaria leucoptera, Gould, P. Z. S. xxii. 1844, p. .57. — Id. Ann. Mag. N. 

 H. xiii. 1844, p. 364.— Id. Birds Aust. pi. 51. 



Cookilaria leucoptera, Bonap. C. A. 1855, ii. p 190, 



Cookiloria velox, Bonap. C. A., 1855, ii. p. 190, ex Pr. velox of Solander. Not 

 relax of Banks, supposed to be one of the Pr^oneiv.. 



Rhantistes velox, Bonaparte, Compt. Rend. xlii. 1856, p. 768. 



Procellaria brevipes,^ Peale, Zool. U. S. Ex. Ex. Bds., 1848, p. 294. 

 Habitat. — Southern Oceans, at large. 

 Form.j Bill much compressed, except at the extreme base, where it is 



nearly as wide as high; much shorter than the skull; about equal to the 



tar>us ; one of the most slender in general shape of this genus. The lateral 



superior sulcus is nearly straight, being only a little sinuate ; the outline of 



the inferior mandibular rami and of the gonys both a little concave, the pro- 



* Pealp, as above. "Head ani wings sooty black; tail and back gray; throat, breast, and 

 belly white, tinged with salmon color ,when living; inferrupted plumbeous bind across the- 

 breant; two outer tail feathers light gray, white beneath; shafts white; all the others brown : 

 under wing coverts white; lesser ones nearly black. Bill black; feet pale flesh; toes black at 

 their ends. Length ).0-70; extent 24 25; culmen nineteeu-twentieths; middle toe and claw 1.30." 



t From specs, in Philada. Acad, and Mus. Smithson, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



tuberance at the symphysis acute, if not very prominent. The commissure 

 is, as usual, very sinuate. The nasal case is contained nearly four times in 

 the length of the culmen ; broad, depressed, its dorsal outline straight, its 

 apex very obliquely truncated, its orifice subcircular, each naris oval ; the 

 septum of considerable thickness, and coming forward to the very end of the 

 ease. The fjontal feathers do not extend at all forward on the base of the 

 culmen, but embrace the sides of the bill as extensively as they do its base 

 above ; and thence they slope very rapidly backwards, making a considerable 

 angle just above the edge of the commissure. 



The wings are sufficiently elongated to extend, when folded, a little beyond 

 the end of the tail, which is, itself, rather longer than in most species of this 

 group. The second primary is nearly as long as the first ; the rtst are 

 rapidly graduated. 



1 he tail is so long as to be only contained exactly twice in the length of 

 the winj; from the carpus, and the graduation of the lateral feathers is about 

 as great as in luvsitata, (greater than in mollis,) though the median pair of 

 rectrices are not specially produced. The upper tail covtrts fall far short of 

 the end of the tail : the under ones reach quite to it. 



The legs are short and slender ; the tibiae bare for but a very brief space. 

 The tarsi are considerably shorter than the middle toe without its claw, and 

 about equal to the inner; quite slender, moderately compressed, with the 

 ordinary recticulations. The tip of the inner lateral claw just reaches the 

 base of the middU one. The middle and outer toes are of equal length, but 

 the claw of the latter is much shorter than that of the former : which last is 

 but very slightly dilated on its inner edge. All the claws are small, slender 

 and weak, but still much curved and acute. The hallux is of the ordinaiy 

 size and shape. 



Dimensions. Chord of culmen 1-00; height of bill at base '35 to -40. 

 Jicngth of nasal case '25. Wing 8*50 to 9*00 ; the distance from end of 

 longest secondary to tip of first primary in the folded wing 2'75. Tail 3-75 

 to 4*25 ; graduation 1-00 to 1-50. Tarsus I-IO ; outer toe and claw 1*25 : 

 inner do. 1*12, middle do. 1-33. From upper tail coverts to end of 

 tail 1-40. 



Color. Adult. Above blackish cinereous. On the crown of the head and 

 its sides to a little below and before the eye, and on the nape the color tends 

 more towards sooty brownish than to cinereous ; but on the neck behind 

 this color merges insensibly into the quite pure deep cinereous, which occu- 

 pies the middle dorsal region, the interscapulars, and some of the tertials. 

 The rump is darker and more like the crown ; the upper tail coverts again 

 being cinereous, if anything a little lighter than the back — tending to pure 

 grayish instead of dusky cinereous. The superior surface of the tail is 

 plumbeous blackish, lightest and most cinereous basally. Inferiorly the tail 

 is lighter colored than on its upper surface ; the lateral rectrices particularly 

 being light plumbeous gray, almost whitish basally. The shafts of the 

 feathers are above brown, below white, except at their extremities. The 

 superior wing coverts and all the primaries and secondaries are brownish or 

 fuliginous black ; deepest along the edges of the wings, and outer borders 

 and tips of the quill feathers. The inner vanes of the primaries are light 

 grayish fuliginous, becoming grayish white towards their bases ; but the 

 transition is quite gradual. The shafts are black above, brownish beneath. 

 All the under wing coverts are pure white, except one row, the smallest, just 

 along the edge of the ulna and metacarpus ; producing a broad uninterrupted 

 white area. On the radial edge of the antibrachium there is a narrow but 

 well-defined white line:* visible from both upper and under aspects of the 



* TLis is very erroneously calkd a " Imea humeraUs'''' by Mr. Goulfl in one place: and spoken 

 of 88 "a line along the inner edgn of ihn shoulder'" in another. We very often find the caipal 

 joiut most carelessly and incorrectly spoken of as the " shoulder." 



18G6.] 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



wing. The front, the lores, the Bides of the head nearly to the oyes ; the 

 side of the nock, and the whole under plumage, pure white. The color of the 

 hack almost always, to some degree, clouds the sides of the hreast. 



The above is the pluma{::e of a very mature bird. Usually the plumage, is 

 rather as follows. Tlie upper parts generally are less decidedly cinereous — 

 liaving more of an admixture of brownish — though the upper tail coverts are 

 <iuite notably plumbeous. The lorehe.ad is speckled v/ith black : sometimes 

 the latter color being in excess over the white. The sides of the breast are 

 very strongly cli)u<h'd with dark cinereous gray, which may reach quite to 

 tlie median line ; though this color is only a wash on the extremities of the 

 feathnra. Some of the feathers on the flanks, and a few of the under tail 

 coverts are also lightl}-- touched with plumbeous gray. 



Young. The upper parts show scarcely a trace of cinereous anywhere, 

 except, perhaps, on the upper tail coverts. The front is so much obscured 

 by dusky that the white only appears in small sparse specks. The whole 

 under parts are tinged with a plumbeous black hue from the breast back- 

 wards ; this color being deepest on the breast where it is pure and uninter- 

 rupted ; on other parts appearing as a clouding «r marbling. The chin and 

 throat in all the specimens I have seen remain almost pure white, in marked 

 contrast to the rest of the under parts. The under wing coverts are as de- 

 scribed in the adult : and the white line along the edge of the fore arm also 

 exists. 



It will be noted that the changes of plumage above described are quite 

 homologous with those to which mollis is subject. 



The bill is black. S imewhat more than half the inner web, and rather less 

 than half the outer web, together with the tarsus, are light flesh color. The 

 rest of the toes and webs are black. The colors of the bill and feet seem 

 subject to little variation with age. 



iSi/nonijma. The name C'jokii of Gray has priority by about a year over 

 Imcoptera of G^ould ; as, indeed, the latter author himself allows. That 

 these two names were based upon the same species is not doubted, so far as 1 

 can learn, except by one author. Bonaparte would have it that the bird 

 figured in plate 51 of the Birds of Australia, and called " Cookii Gray " by 

 Mr. Gould, is not the species really so named by Mr. Gray ; but another ; 

 differing slightly in size, though quite identical in color, and for which he 

 adopts the name relox. In this conclusion, he is quite unsustained by orni- 

 thologists. 



The specimen collected by Mr. T. R. Peale, now before me, which doubtless 

 is the type of his brevipes of 1848, is an example of this species. 



This little species is liable to be confounded with no other, except, perhaps, 

 the succeeding one ; under the head of which latter the apparent diflerences 

 are noticed. I find no names of the older writers which seem referrible to 

 this species ; and its synonymy is less confused than that of most other 

 components of the genus. 



iEsTKELATA GAVIA (Forst.) 



Procellaria gavia, Forst. Descr. Anim. Ed. Licht., 1844, p. 148. ("P. supra 

 ccerulesceiiti-nigra, subtus Candida, palato et lingua villis deflexis, 

 pedibus pallide-fuscis. * * Habitat ad iEstuarium Reginse Char- 

 lotte. * * Corpus magnitudine circiter P. vittatm. * * Alae 

 expansse 26 unc. rostrum in fronte 1-50; tibise 1*75; cauda 2-50." 

 Forst.) G. R. Gray, Voy. Ereb. and Terr. Birds, pt. x. Oct., 1845, 

 p. 18.— Id. Ibis, 1862, iv. p. 246. From Queen Charlotte's Sound. 

 This is a species which is not recognized, and, in fact, does not appear to 

 be noticed in later systematic works. In addition to the diagnostic points 

 quoted above, Forster describes it as having the pileum, neck behind, back, 

 rump, thighs, tail, and upper surface of the wings, bluish black ; the chin, 



[Maj, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



throat, breast, abdomen, crissum and under wing co\rerts white. Forster's 

 editor. Dr. Lichtenstein, merely says of it, "inter P. aihm Lath, varietates 

 latens," Mr. Gr. R. Gray recognizes it in the works above cited as a valid 

 species. An accurate definition of its characters, and an exact exposition of 

 its relationships, together with its synonyms, if it have any, are greatly to be 

 desired. 



The bird is apparently some small species of yEstrdata. All the points of 

 coloration given, especially those of the under wing coverts, are quite con- 

 sistent with the characters of zE. Cookii. Bat the dimensions as stated are 

 quite at variance with those presented by Cookii, those of the bill and feet 

 being much too large, while that of the tail is too small ; these dimensions 

 being rather those of a small Paffiims. In view of these discrepancies, I pre- 

 fer to coincide with Mr. Gray's high authority in holding it, for the present 

 at least, as distinct ; especially as its reference to any described species 

 would be entirely upon supposition. 



aEsTRELATA DESOLATA (Gm.) BOU. 



Procellaria desolata, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. pars. ii. 1788, p. 562, No. 14. 

 Latham, Syn. iii. part ii. 1785, p. 409, No. 14. Latham, Ind. Orn., 

 1790, ii. p. 825, No. . Kuhl, Mon. Proc. Beit. Zool , 1820, p. 143, 

 No. 13, fig. 7. Schlegel, Mon. Froc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 13; 

 and of authors generally. 

 Daption desolatum, Steph. Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. 1825, p. 244. 

 yEstrelata desolata, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. ii. p. 189. Excl. var. rostrafa. — Id. 



Comptes Rend. xlii. 1856, p. 768. 

 Procellaria fasciata, Bonnserte, (Gray, Cat. Bds. Pacif. Islands, 1859, p. 56). 



Habitat. — Island of Desolation. New Hebrides ; Kamtschatka, (Schlegel). 



" Pr. ex virescente cinerea, subtus alba, remigibus cauduque rotundata 

 obscuris, hac apice fusca. * * Rostrum nigrum apice flavicans ; tempora 

 ocularumque area alba. Summitas alarum fere nigra ; pedes fusci ; mem- 

 brana digitos connectens flava ; ungues nigri ; alls expansis fascia obscura 

 per omne corpus ab apice ad apicem." IGmelin.'] 



" Teintes du plumage et des pieds absolument comme celles de la Procellaria 

 leucoptera, mais d'une taille beaucoup moins forte, et les pennes caudales 

 comme les plumes sous-caudales d'une teinte foncee jusqu'a leur base. 

 Aile 7 ponces 10 lignes ; pointe de I'aile 2 pouces 11 lignes. Queue: pennes 

 mitoyennes 3 pouces 5 lines ; pennes exterues 2 pouces 8 lignes. Bee : 

 longeur 11 lignes ; hauteur 3 lignes ; largeur 4 lignes. Longueur du tube 

 nasal iipeu-pres de 2 lignes. Tarse 12 ligues. Doigt du mileau 12 lignes." 

 {Schhgel.) 



This is a species with which I am unacquainted through autopsy. It is 

 the smallest known component of the genus, being less than the little Cookii. 

 I have copied Gmelin's original indication of the species ; and Dr. Sohlegel's 

 measurements of a typical example, from the Temminckian collection ; the 

 individual upon which Dr. Kuhl, in 1820, based his description. Both 

 Gmelin and Latham speak of some portion of the bill as being yellow ; which 

 was probably an accidental feature in one specimen ; for, as is well known, 

 all the JEstrelatas have black bills. 



This species is so small, and otherwise so well characterized, that it stands 

 in the enviable position of having hardly a synonym, although described in 

 the eighteenth century. I have not met with, or seen anywhere cited, a 

 single synonym, except that of Bonnserte, above given. 



iEsTEELATA MACRorTERA (Smith) Coues. 



Procellaria macroptera. Smith, 111. S. Af. Zool. Bds., pi. 52. Gould, Ann. Mag. 

 N. H., 1844, xiii. p. 362. Gould, Introd. Bds. Aust., p. 116, No. 591. 

 Ossifraga macroptera, Reichenbach, Syst. Av. t. 21, fig. 786. 



1«66.1 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Pterodroma marropfera, Bp. C. A., ISHf), ii. p. 191. 

 Prordlaria brevirosfris, Lesson, Traite Oru., 1831, p. 611. 

 *' f Procelloria hirfuhris^ Tschudi," according to Bonaparte. Not of Natterer, 

 which is a T/ialassidroinine. 



Habitat. — Antarctic Oceans. Coast of Africa. (Smith). Van Diemen's 

 Land. (Gould). 



This is a species which I recognize with much douht. Not having access 

 to the original description by Smith, I cannot speak with ceitaintj regarding 

 it. It is admitted by Bonaparte, who says of it : " Ex toto fuliginoso-cinerea ; 

 rostro nigro ; pedibus llavidis." On the other hand, Dr. Sclilegel refers it to 

 the atltintica; and the measurements of two specimens in tlie Pays-Bas 

 Museum, (one an undoubted atlantica received from Mr. Gould, and the 

 other a supposed macroptcra,) by no means differ in size to a degree incom- 

 patible with specilic identity. If the expression " pedibus flavidis " is cor- 

 rect, the species would be easily separable. As it is, the only data given by 

 most authors are the larger size, longer wings, and grayer face, as compared 

 with atlantica. 



It is quite possible that the specimen upon which Dr. Schlegel unites the 

 two names is not a veritable example of macroj)tera. Bonaparte evidently 

 separates macrojitera from atlantica on the strength of tdie did'erence in the 

 color of the feet. Mr. Gould says of this species : '' I think that a bird I 

 killed in the seas off Van Diemen's Land, where it was tolerably abundant, 

 and which differs from atlantica in being of a larger size, having much longer 

 wings and a grayer face, may be identical with P. macropttra of Smith, and 

 I therefore retain it under that appellation, in preference to assigning it a 

 new name." Here is an instance in which an author who, in extensive and 

 practical knowledge of the Petrels, is surpassed by no other naturalist, deems 

 the species sufficiently distinct from atlantica. But it is quite possible that 

 the bird here referred to is not the true macroptera of Smith ; and may likely 

 enough be an undescribed species of Pterodroma, different from both macrojt- 

 tera and atlantica, as, indeed, Bonaparte hints, (page 191, Conspectus). 



On page 611 of Lesson's Traite, ' (1S31,) there is described a. Procellaria 

 hrevirostns, as follows: "Bee noir, court, tres recourbe ; tarses jaune ; 

 plumage en eutier brun fuligineux ; aiies et queue noir intense. Mus. de 

 Paris." This is evidently some species of Pterodroma; and upon this de- 

 scription, apparently, or, very possibly, upon the specimen itself in the Paris 

 Museum, Bonaparte has drawn up his diagnosis of the species he calls 

 '■'macroptera Smith." I cannot see why he does not employ Lesson's name, 

 which has priority over macroptera Smith, provided the two are synonymous. 



As a resume of the subject, I may state that 1 think it quite possible there 

 are two species confounded in the synonyma at the head of this article. One 

 is brevirostvis Lesson, entirely luliginous, and with yellow feet. The other is 

 the species referred to by Mr. Gould, as above, as distinguished from the 

 common atlantica by its larger size, longer wings, and gray face. Whether 

 the latter is the true macroptera of Smith remains to be proven. Dr. Schlegel 

 may be perfectly right in referring the 7nacropt"ra Smith to atlantica Gould ; 

 and yet the two species I am speaking of may also exist, distinct from eacli 

 other and from atlantica. 



By Bonaparte the Procellaria lugubris Tschudi* is referred with a query to 

 this species. As will be seen by the accompanying foot note, the bird is 

 evidently some species of Plerodroma ; though the description is so brief 

 and wanting in measurements that it is impossible to say to which one it is to 

 be referred, or whether it be really a valid new species. 



♦Tschudi, Cab. Journ. f. Ornith., iv. 1856. p. 85. ''The whole body is dark brown, Ihe back 

 somewhat deeper-colorea than the belly; the tail wholly black; the inner side of the wIdk 

 darker than the outer. Bill and feet reddish; iris ashy gray. Surpasses in size the c<.joew,n> ; 

 also comj^ressed in form. The description of P. antarctica is too inaccurate to say with ct;rtainty 

 if it be the species here described. Between 40" aud 36'-'." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 157 



-^STRELATA FULIGINOSA (Kuhl) CoUCS. 



Procellaria fuliginosa, Kubl, Mon. Proc. Beit. Zool. 1820, p, 142, No. 12, pi. x. 

 fig. 6.— (Banks, tub. 19, fide Kubl ; Forst. tab. 93, B. fide Gould.) But 

 not Proc. fuliginosa, Kuhl, 1. c. species 27, page 148, (Banks tab. 23.) 

 which i3 a Neclris. Also not ftdiffinosa Gni. Lath, which is probably a 

 Thalassidromine species. Also not Pujjfinus fuliginoms Strick. — Forster, 

 Descr. Anim. Ed. Licht. IS-iU, p. 23, sp. 18. — Not the Neciris fuliginosaoi 

 Forster.— Schlegel, Mon. Pfoc. Mus. Pays-Bas. 1863, p. 8. 

 Procellaria atlantica^ Gould, Ann. Mag. N. H. 1844, xiii. p. 362. Id. Introd. B. 



Aust. p. 116, sp. 590, and of authors. 

 Pterodroma atiantica^ Bonaparte, 0. A. 1856, ii. p. 191. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Ocean, particularly its southern portions. 

 Descr,* Bill black. Feet dark colored. Entire plumage including the 

 under wing coverts, fuliginous, becoming almost black on the wings and 

 tail. Bill 1-35. Tarsus 1-60 ; middle toe and claw 2-20 ; outer do. about the 

 same, inner do. 2 20. Wing 10-75 to 11 -50; possibly to 1200. Tail 4-50 to 

 5-00. Total length 15 to 16 inches. 



Fine examples of this well known species are in ihe Philadelphia Academy, 

 some of them typical specimens received from Mr. Gould, and labelled by him 

 " atlantica." 



This species is certainly the fuliginosa of Kuhl's monograph (No. 12, pi. x. 

 fig. 6.) Indeed it is seldom that the descriptions and measurements of the 

 earlier writers are found so entirely pertinent and readily identifiable as in 

 the present instance. The figure of the bill agrees exactly. This identifica- 

 tion is made by both Bonaparte and Schlegel. Although the name fuliginosa 

 has been applied by several other authors to different species, none of them 

 .fall in this genus or indeed among the JEstrelatese. (Examine my synonyma, 

 supra.) There would seem to be therefore no good reason why the 

 name should not stand for this species, taking precedence over atlantica of 

 Gould. To Dr. Schlegel is due, I believe, the credit of restoring Dr. Kuhl's 

 name. 



It is quite at variance with the usual great accuracy of Mr. Gould's identifi- 

 cations, that he should have saidf that this species "is the grisea of Kuhl" 

 (No. 15, fig. 9.) I have endeavored to show, antea, what I think the grisea of 

 Kuhl really is; but whether my identification — which is the same as that 

 made by Dr. Schlegel — be correct or not, Kuhl's grisea is certainly widely 

 different from the present species. 



In my Review of the Puffinece-, page 124 of these Proceedings for 1864, I 

 maintain the opinion that fuliginosa^ Forster, sp. 18, p. 23, of Lichenstein's 

 edition, is a species of Nectris ; which view 1 am now satisfied is erroneous. 

 Procellaria fuliginosa Forster is the present species, as maintained by Prof. 

 Lichtenstein and Prince Bonaparte. Impressed with Kuhl's remark that his 

 fuUginosi is ''oranino diversa a Neciri fuliginosa Forst.," I did not discriminate 

 beiween this latter name and the Procellaria fuliginosa Forst. p. 23 of Lichen- 

 stein's edition ; whence my mistake. 



I know nothing of the Nectris fuliginosa of Forster, nor do I attempt to iden- 

 tify Proc. fuliginosa, sp. 27, (•' Banks tab. 23 ") of Dr. Kuhl's monograph. Tho 

 latter has recently been identified by Mr. Gray with Proc. pacifica of Latham, 

 which is some large species of Puffinus (Cat. Birds Pacif. Isl. p. 55.) 



In the "Ibis" for 1862, page 245, Mr. G. R. Gray institutes a Procellaria 

 J'arkinsoni ; which it' said to be the bird of Bank's icon. ined. No. 19, and (in 

 part) the Puffinus cequinoctialis of Gray's list of Anseres of the British Museum, 

 ]>age IGO , and is compared with iequinoctialis a,s follows : " being smaller in all 

 its proportions; the bill is nearly one-third less than that oi sequin octialis ; the 



1866.] 



*From specs, in Mus. Acad., PhUa. 

 t Ann. Mag. N. H.1844, xiii. p. 362. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



body is sooty black tbroughout, being without the white on the mentum ; the 

 tips of the mandibles are inclined to black.'' This description does not show 

 well whether tlie bird is a Majagueus or a P lerodroma ; the comparison with 

 nquinoctiaUs would seem to indicate the former; while the citation of Banks' 

 Drawings No. 19 (by Knhl placed under his P. jfuliginosa — which is the Ptcro- 

 drotna atlanttca,) would make it a component of the latter group. The habitat 

 of the supposed species is New Zealand. 



-(EsTRELATA ATERRiMA (Verreaux) Coues. 



Procellaria aterrima, Verreaux. Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 9. 



Pterodroma atenima, Bonap. C. A. 1855, ii. p. 191. 



'' Bulweria at err ima ^ AViq.^' 



" f Proc. carbonaria, Solander " fide Bp. 



Habitat. — West coast of Africa. Bourbon Island. 



A very distinct species, distinguished among its congeners by its size, and 

 the color of the feet. The plumage as in the others of the group is uniform 

 blackish fuliginous ; the feet are yellowish, or light colored, passing into black 

 upon the terminal moiety of the toes and the included portions of their mem- 

 branes. Dr. Schlegel gives the following measurements of a typical example 

 in the Leyden Museum, from Bourbon Island, received from Mr. Verreaux : 

 *• Wing 8 7-12 inches; point of the wing 3 5-12 ; middle tail feathers 3 7-12 ; 

 external 2 8- 12; length of bill 12^ lines; height 4^ lines; width 6 lines; tar- 

 sus 16^ lines ; middle toe 172 lines." 



^STRELATA BuLWERi (Jard. et Selb.) Coues. 



Procellaria Bulweri, Jardine and Selby, III. Orn. Vol. ii. tab. 65. (No date 



given on title page and pages not numbered.) Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. 



Pay-Bas, 1863, p. 9, and of many authors. 

 Thahtssidroma Bidiveri, Gray, Gen. Birds, 1849, iii. 

 Procellaria avjinho^ Heineken, Birds Mad. in Brewst. Journ. Oct. 1829, p. 231. 



(First designation ?) 

 Puffinus columbinus, Webb and Berthelot, Hist. Nat. Canar. ii. part ii. 1836 — 44, 



page 44, pi. 4, fig. 2. (Name Proc. columbina on plate.) 

 Bulweria columbina, Bonaparte, 0. A. 1855, ii. p. 194. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Ocean. Coast of Africa and Europe. Dr. Schlegel has a 

 specimen from Greenland. Very possibly to be included in the Fauna of North 

 America. 



This interesting species is the smallest of the genus, and quite distinct from 

 its congeners not only in size but in some of its propoitions. It has compara- 

 tively a longer tail than most species of the genus ; bearing a proportion to the 

 wing from the carpal joint of 4J to about 8, or more than half. The tail is 

 very cuneate, the difference between the median and outer feathers amounting 

 to 1-75 inches; and the central pair themselves are considerably longer than 

 the next. The under tail coverts, — at least in the specimen before me, — fall 

 nearly two inches short of the end of the longest feathers, being in fact no 

 longer than the upper ones. The folded wings hardly reach to the end of the 

 tail. The bill is about as long as the tarsus, or the middle toe without its 

 • claw: of the ordinary yEstrelatean type ; quiie stout at the base, compressed 

 throughout ; tbe unguis large and rising almost immediately from the nostrils, 

 and exceedingly convex ; the sulcus oii the lower mandible is deep and well 

 marked; the outline of the rami is nearly straight, the gonys very concave ; 

 and there is considerable of an eminentia symphysis. The first primary is 

 hardly if at all longer than the second. The feet present no special peculiari- 

 ties in relative size or proportions ; the inner toe is perhaps slightly shorter 

 than ordinary. 



The fuliginous color is deepest, being almost black, on the wings and tail ; 



[Maj, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 159 



below is lighter and more brownish ; on the head has a faint cinereous wash ; 

 on the greater wing-coverts is rather paler and grayer,* 



Dimensions. Chord of culmen 0-85. Tarsus slightly longer, -90 to 1-00 ; 

 middle toe and claw MC; outer do. about the same; inner do. 0-85. Wing 

 8-00; tail 4-50; graduation of lateral feathers 1-75. 



This little spe'^-ies has been very variously arranged in the series by different 

 authors, as will be seen by the synonyms which head this article. In my 

 mind there is no doubt that Dr. Schlegel has correctly indicated its affinities 

 io placing it in intimate relation with, and next after aterrima Verr., albeit he 

 retains it in his somewhat extensive "genus" Procellaria. My own reasons 

 for referring it to JEstrelaia will be found in my remarks under the head of 

 that genus. 



I am not enabled to state positively what was the first specific name applied 

 to this species, of the three which head this article. Bonaparte gives prece- 

 dence to columhina ; but MM. Webb and Berthelot, in giving this name quote 

 anjinho^ Heineken, (1829) as above, which must therefore have been published 

 anterior to their own appellation columbina. The title page of the work where 

 the latter name appears, bears the date " 1836 — 44," Dr. Schlegel and most 

 other writers give priority to Bulweri of Jardine and Selby's Illustrations, a 

 work extending over a series of years. It is figured in volume ii. pi. 65 ; but 

 the title page bears no date. If not published anterior to 1829 then the name 

 anjinho Heineken has priority. 



JSsTRELATA Macgillivrayi (Gray) Coues. 



Thalassidroma [Buhverid) Macgillivrayi^ G. R. Gray, Cat. Birds Is1. Pacif. 1859, 

 p. 56, Spec, in Britsh Museum, from the Feejee Island?, (Ngau.) 



"Like T. Bulweri^ but with the bill rather larger; and it is without the 

 sooty brown on the wings." [Gray.] 



A species with which I am only acquainted through the above cited very 

 brief indication. 



[Note. — Just as these sheets are leaving my hands for the printer's I learn 

 through the kindness of my friend Dr. P. L. Sclater, of London, of the identi- 

 fication of the "Blue Mountain Duck " of Gosse's Birds of Jamaica. It appears 

 in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society as Pterodroma Cai-rib<ei, Carte. I 

 was surprised at learning that it is a " Fterodroma," as I had confidently 

 anticipated that it would prove to be one of the Frionem ; po^■sibly however 

 being prejudiced by the following note upon it by Richard Hill, Esq.f "From 

 the dimensions of our bird, 13 inches long, by some 26 inches in the extent of 

 wing, and from the proportions and character of the bill and nasal tubes, and 

 the grooved mandible, I should say the Blue mouniaiji petrel must be classed 

 with the Prion of Lacepede, the genus Pachyptila of Illiger, the type being the 

 Procellaria vitlata, * * Our bird has a triple row of palatal teeth," etc] 



PAGODROMA Bonap, 



Procellaria sp. Gmelin et Anctorum, 



Thalassoica, sp. Reichenbach. 



Pagodroma, Bonap. Consp. Av. 1855, ii. p. 192.— Type Proc. vivea Gmel. 



The bill is very short, being less than half as long as the skull ; and ex- 

 ceedingly small, weak, slender and compressed throughout, its base being 

 much higher than broad. The lateral outlines are straight, rapidly converg- 

 ing to a narrow, elongated, rather slender, very convex, moderately decurved 

 and hooked unguis, whose convexity begins immediately at the termination of 

 the nasal cr.se. The lateral sulcus is short, and very oblique. The outline of 

 lower mandible is straight; of gonys a little concave, the angle of the sym- 



1866.] 



♦ Description from specs, in the Philada. Acad, and Mua. Smithson. 

 t A week at Port-Royal, By Richard Ilill. Moutego Bay, 1866. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



pliysis sHf?ht, the tip a little decurved. The interraraal space is narrow, and 

 densely feathered to the symphysis. The nasal tubes are exceedingly short, 

 but bioad, high, and turgiii, the median line only obsoletely carina'ed. Their 

 apex is very obliquely truncated, not at all emarginated. The orifice is large, 

 and nearly circular ; the internasal septum very thin, nnd not extending to the 

 termination of ihe nasal cnse. The frontal feathers extend far on the base of 

 the bill, running forward on the nasal case with a narrowly rounded termina- 

 tion, and sloping rapidly baclvwards and obliquely downwurd-s. The outline 

 of the base of the nasal tubes is thus rendered nearly as oblique as their 

 apex. 



The wings are rather short, when folded not reaching to the end of the tail. 

 The second primary is not much shorter than the first. All the primaries are 

 rather narrow, regularly tapering to their somewhat acute tips. The tertials 

 and inner primaries are much abbreviated, making the distance in the folded 

 wing, from iheir tips to The end of the first primary unusually great. The tail 

 is very long, broad, and but slightly rounded, and is contained only about 

 twice in the wing from the carpal joint. All the rectrices are broad to their 

 very tips ; which latter are squarely truncated. 



The tarsus is as long as the middle toe; moderately stout and compressed ; 

 covered with small somewhat elongated irregularly shaped plates, which are 

 rough and elevated, especially posteriorly, and are not notably different in size 

 or shape on the two aspects of the tarsus. The tibiae are feathered to very near 

 the joint. The inner lateral toe with its claw barely reaches the base of the 

 middle claw. The outer Idteral toe is longer than the middle ; its claw how- 

 ever so short, as hardly to reach to the tip of the middle claw. Claws are 

 rather large, little curved, moderately compressed and acute ; the inner edge 

 of the middle one dilated. The hallux is unusually developed, and somewhat 

 depressed in situation ; long, stout, acute, and a little curved. 



The size is moderate; the form compact and robust; the color entirely pure 

 whiie. 



This is one of the most remarkable generic types of the Procellariinse. It is 

 doubtless most nearly related to DapUon, with which genus its " build" cor- 

 rej'ponds closely. But, as will be seen on comparing the diagnosis given, it 

 differs in many details of structure, particularly those relating to the biil. From 

 ^Estrelaf.a the pecularities of bill, of the hallux, comparative lengths of wings 

 and tail, etc., readily distinguish it. The genus has a " physiognomy'" or 

 " facial aspect " that is peculiarly its own. The long depressed sloping fore- 

 head is found in no other Procellaridian. This is produced mainly by the flat- 

 tening and elongation of the bones composing the forehead ; but aided to a 

 considerable degree by the great forward extension of the frontal feathers, 

 which gives to the bill and nasal tubes their extreme brevity ; causes such a 

 long rictus ; and places the eye, apparently, at so great a distance from the 

 corneous base of the bill. 



Pagodroma nivea (Gm.) Boa, 



Frocellaria nivio, Gm., S. N. 1788, i. part ii. p. 562, and of authors generally. 



Diipfion niveum, Stf^phens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 243. 



TUalassoica nivea, Reichenbach, tab. 22, fig. 791, 792. 



Pagodroma Jiivea, Bonapirte, C. A. 1855, ii. p. 192. 



Frocellaria Candida^ Peale, Zool. U. S. Expl. Exped. 1848, p. 295. 



Pagodroma^ var. mojur, Bonaparte, 1. c. 



Pagodroma, var. vimor, Bonaparte, 1. c. 



Procellaria nivea minor, Si-hlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Fays-Bas, 1863, p. 16. 



Habitat. — Antarctic Ocean and Continent. 



Independently of differences in absolute size of body, the species presents 

 unending variations in size, and, to some degree, in shape, of the bill. Speci- 

 mens differ m this respect by as much as a fourth of the whole length of the 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



bill, which may be quite unaccompanied by corresponding differences as to 

 depth or width. The length of the nasal tubes, and the amount of turgidity, 

 and obliquity of truncation vary greatly. Differences in the depth and robust- 

 ness of bill are surprisingly great. 



I have never seen, of many specimens, any which were separable specifi- 

 cally from the typical form. But some individuals are so strikingly small, 

 that were it not for intermediate sizes, they might readily be supposed distinct. 

 Upon this character a variety minor was founded by Bonaparte which has 

 been adopted by so accurate and cautious an ornithologist as Dr. Schlegel. 



Theonly synonym of note I have met with is candidus of Peale, (1848.) The 

 original description of P. nivea by Gmelin speaks of black shafts of some of the 

 feathers. As Mr. Cassin justly remarks (Orn. U. S. Ex. Exped, 1858, p. 416) 

 should this ever be found to characterize a species, the present must bear Mr. 

 Peale's name of Candida. I think it probable that dark spots or streaks would 

 be indicative of inmaturity; but being unfamiliar with the plumage of very 

 young birds, I cannot speak with certainty. 



DaPTION Stephens. 

 Frocellaria sp. Linnaeus, et Auct. 



Daption^ Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. 1825, p. 239. Type Procellaria ca- 

 pensis, L. 



The bill is much shorter than the skull, about three-fourths the tarsus,, 

 rather more than two-third.s the middle toe, very stout, depressed, about as 

 broad as high for its whole length as far as the unguis, where it is suddenly 

 much compressed and higher than broad. Culmen is about straight or a little 

 concave from the nostrils to the root of the unguis, which latter is moderately 

 large, but not very convex nor much decurved. The lateral outline of the bill, 

 is decidedly convex from its base to the unguis where the convexity suddenly 

 ceases; it is produced by the large, inflated and protuberant lateral lamina?. 

 Just inside the cutting edge of the bill is a series of oblique rugae, extending 

 the whole length of the bill. The lateral sulcus is well defined, running from 

 the base of the nasal case to the unguis, obliquely downwards and forwards ; 

 it is most distinct posteriorly, more shallow anteriorly, where it merges into 

 the depressed portion of the culmen. The lower mandible is perpendicularly 

 narrow, but horizontally is unusually broad, the rami widely diverging from 

 each other immediately from the symphysis. The gonys is short, scarcely con- 

 vex in outline, its angle small and inconspicuous. The interramal space is 

 very broad, in consequence of the wide divergence of the inferior mandibular 

 rami, and their mutual concavity. The rictus is exceedingly ample ; and the 

 capacity of the fauces increased still more by the looseness and dilatability of 

 the enclosed skin. The feathers on the side of the lower mandible extend but 

 a short distance ; those in the interramal space only as far as a point opposite 

 the end of the nasal tubes; and by no means fill the space from side to side 

 when the skin is at all distended. 



The nasal case is very long for a component of the group jEstrelatese, being 

 a third as long as the culmen. It is broad, depressed, a little more elevated 

 towards the apex, its dorsal outline a little concave and moderately carinated.. 

 The orifice is subcircular, nearly vertically truncated, a little emarginated. 



The wings are of moderate length, about equal to the tail when they are 

 folded. The second primary is nearly as long as the first ; the rest rapidly 

 graduated. The tail is rather short, contained about two and a half times in 

 the wing from the carpus ; is moderately and very evenly rounded ; the rec- 

 trices being broad to their extreme tips. The upper tail coverts fall an inch 

 short of the end of the tail ; the inferior ones quite reach its extremity. 



But a very brief portion of the tibia is naked of feathers. The tarsus is much 

 shorter than the middle toe and claw, about equal to the inner toe ; very stoat, 

 though much compressed ; covered externally with very small, irregularly sub- 

 circular plates ; which on the inner aspect are much larger and more regular 

 1866.] 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMI OP 



in shftpe; the median series of them bo broad as to nearly stretch across the. 

 inner face of the tarsus. Tlie inner toe is short, the tip of its small weak claw 

 hardly reaching to the base of the middle claw. The outer toe without its 

 claw is decidedly longer than the middle one ; but the much greater size of the 

 claw of the latter makes up the difference. The hallux is large and stout; a 

 straight, almost perfectly conical, moderately acute, claw. 



This genus is trenchantly separated from all others by the characters of the 

 bill ; in the lateral dilatation of which, the widely divaricating rami of the un- 

 der mandible, and the partially naked and distensible skin of the interramal 

 space, there is seen an approach to Prion of the Procellarunce, and also to Pele- 

 canoides of the Ilalodromintr,. The superior lateral mandibular laminae are so 

 wide and large, and so inflated, that they give a bulging convex lateral outline 

 to the bill. In the same manner the inferior mandibular rami rapidly diverge 

 from each other, their concavities presenting to the interramal space. In all 

 these points there is an interesting resemblarce to the genus Pelecavoides ; fur- 

 ther heightened by the broad ample rictus, loose dilatable skin of the floor of 

 the mouth, which is only partially feathered. These peculiarities are not shared 

 by any other genus of Procellariinx except Prion ; and leaving out of considera- 

 tion the widely diverse nostrils, the bills of Pelecanoides uri7iairix and Daption 

 tapcnsis are very similar in shape. 



The genus is of moderate size, of robust and compact form, and variegated 

 in the distribution of its colors. Its only known species is the type upon which 

 it is based, the well known D. capensis. 



Daption capensis (L.) Steph. 

 Procellaria capensis, Linn., S. N. 10th ed. 1758, p. 132. Linn. S. N. 12th ed. 1766, 

 i. p. 213, No. 5. Linn. Amoen. Acad. iv. p. 240, and of other authors. 

 Daption capensis, Stephens, Shaw's Zool. 1825, xiii. p. 241 : and of later 



authors. 

 Procellaria nxvea, Brisson, Ornith. 1760, vi. p. 146, No. 3. 



Procellaria punctata, Ellman, Zool. 1861, p. 7473. Cape Pigeon ; Black and 

 White Petrel ; Petrel Tachet^ ; Pintado ; Damier ; Pardela, etc., Voya- 

 ger's Vulgo. 

 This is one of the three species of Procellaria given by Linnaeus in 1758. It 

 has remarkably few synonyms, in consequence of its marked characteristics. 

 Its features are so well known that no mention of them is necessary in this 

 connection, as the peculiarities of its bill have been elucidated under the head 

 •of the genus. 



Section PRIONE^E. 

 The presence of laminated serrations along the inner edge of the upper man- 

 dible so trenchantly defines this group, that further characterization is unnec- 

 essary. A great similarity of color is found to prevail throughout. 



After elimination of the genus Halohscna on the ground of its square tail 

 and some other peculiarities, I find among the so-called Prions two very dis- 

 similar types ; which I consider as of generic import, and am therefore com- 

 pelled, however reluctantly, to separate under a new designation. 

 The three genera here recognized may be thus distinguished : — 



A. Bill compressed, its unguis large, its serrations moderate in extent, or con- 



fined to the base of the upper mandible. 



I. Tail truncated Halobsena. 



II. Tail graduated Pseudoprion. 



B. Bill excessively dilated, depressed, its unguis small and weak ; the serra- 



tions large and perfect to the extremity of the bill. 



III. Tail graduated Prion. 



HALOBiENA Is. Geoffr. 

 Procellaria sp. Omelin, et auct. 

 Prion sp. Gray^ Reichenbach, fide Bp. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Halobsena, " Is. Geoffr. 1836," Bon. C. A. 1855, ii. p. 193. (? Type P. coerulea, 

 Gm.) 



Chs. Bill provided with a few laminated serrations at the sides of the base 

 of the upper mandible, just within the commissural edge of the upper mandi- 

 ble ; in length slightly less than the tarsus, equal to the inner toe without its 

 claw ; slender, compressed throughout, a little higher than wide at the base. 

 Superior lateral sulcus well marked, nearly straight ; inferior shallow and in- 

 distinct. Unguis of upper mandible small, short, only moderately convex. In- 

 ferior unguis acute, much decurved, the gonys very concave, the ramal outline 

 strMight. Interramal space fully feathered. Nasal tubes only a fifth the length 

 of the culmen, short, narrow, elevated, compressed, not carinated, terminally 

 obliquely truncated; nares narrowly oval. Folded wings reach far beyond tail. 

 Tail contained rather more than 2^ times in the wings from the carpal joint ; 

 square, with no graduation of the lateral feathers: all the rectrices so broadly 

 rounded as to be nearly truncated. Tarsus equal to middle toe without claw ; 

 outer rather longer than the middle ; but its claw so short as to make its total 

 length rather less than that of the middle. Tip of inner claw just reaching 

 base of middle. 



The principal character which distinguishes this genus lies in the short, 

 square tail; a feature which is quite unique in this family, being found in no 

 other genus of the Procellariida. Its type and only known species is the old 

 ccerulea of Gmelin, a small delicately formed species, whose colors tend chiefly 

 to bluish and white. 



In general features of external form, proportions of tarsus and toes, and par- 

 ticularly the shape of the bill, which is much compressed, this genus is quite 

 similar to JEstrelata, especially to such of its smaller species as mollis and Cookii. 

 Nevertheless, the presence towards the base of the bill of distinct serrated 

 laminas, which constitute the essence of the Frioniiie type,* indubitably fix its 

 position among the latter group, to which also it so closely approximates in 

 color. These laminae only exist for a short distance on either side of the base of 

 the bill; but still they are quite palpable and decided in character; perhaps as 

 much so as in Pseudoprion turtur or ariel. The small and rather weak unguis, 

 which does not begin to curve almost directly from the unguis, is essentially 

 Prionitic, as distinguished from typical JEsirelatines. The bill though higher 

 than broad in its whole length, is hardly more compressed than in P. iurtur. 

 From these considerations, and esteeming, as I believe justly, that the lamina- 

 tions are the essential character of the PrionecR, and consequently more weighty 

 than all others, I include the somewhat anomalous genus in this latter group. 

 I regard it as the connecting link between the JEstrelatese, on the one band, 

 through the genus Daption, and the Prionex on the other, towards the true 

 type of which latter it approximates through the subtypical genus Pseudo- 

 prion. 



I quote the reference to Isidore Geoffroy on the authority of Bonaparte, not 

 having the means at hand of verifying the citation. I do not know what spe- 

 cies is typical in the original founding of the genus. If it be the one named 

 Halobsena typica in the Conspectus, then Halobsena is equivalent to, and has 

 priority over my Pseudoprion ; and a generic name is wanting for the P. cceru- 

 lea of Gmelin. 



Halob^na ccerulea (Gm.) Bon, 



Procellaria ccerulea^ Gmelin, S. N. i. ii. 1788, p. 560. Latham. Ind. Orn. 1790, 



ii. p. 827. Gould, Birds Aust. pi. 52, and of authors generally. 

 Halobsena coerulea^ Bonaparte, C. A. 1855, ii. p. 193. 



♦In some genera not of the Prionem, e. g. Daption, Ossifraga, etc., there are to be fonnd along 

 the inner border of the cutting edge of the upper mandible, a series of rugae or alternate depres- 

 sions and ridges, obliquely placed. These, however, are part of the mandible itself, and by no means 

 distinct elements, and therefore are radically different in morphological character from the lami- 

 n» of the Prionete, 



1866.] 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



PachyptUa cccnilea, Illiger, Prod. 1811, p. 275.— Steph. Shaw's Gen. Zool. 1825, 



xiii. p. 252. 

 Ptoeellaria similis, " Forster's Drawings, No. 86." Forster, Descr. Anim. ed. 



Licht. 1844, p. 59. 

 Procellaria Forsteri, Smith, 111. S. Afric. Birds, pi. 54. But not of Latham, 



which is Frion vittatus. 

 Habitat. — Antarctic Ocean. Australia. 



Color. There is a short and not very conspicuous infra-ocular white line, 

 and a superciliary streak of the same color; but not, however, running far 

 down on the auriculars behind the eye. Above the bird is of a clear cinere- 

 ous or grayish blue ; extending as delicate clouding around the sides of the 

 breast ; and deepening on the head, most of the wing-coverts, the outer edges 

 and tips of the four outer primaries, into brownish ash. It is chiefly the lesser 

 wing coverts that are thus darkened; most of the greater ones being nearly as 

 dear as the back. The secondaries and tertials are clear cinereous, edged 

 and tipped with white; their inner webs being almost wholly of this color. 

 The inner vanes of all the primaries, but particularly of the first four, are 

 almost wholly pearly while except at their tips. The upper tail coverts are 

 concolor with the back. The exterior pair of rectrices are white, with dark 

 brown shafts; the next two are colored like the back; the rest similar ex- 

 cept that a fuscous hue deadens the cinereous towards the end of the feathers, 

 and their tips are squarely, trenchantly, and purely white ; each for an in- 

 creasing distance from without inwards. Forehead, cheeks, lower auriculars, 

 under surface of wings and whole under parts of th« body pure white. 



Younger birds may be known by a less decidedly cinereous or bluish gray 

 tinge of the upper parts ; which tend more or less strongly towards brownish. 

 The forehead is not pure white but mixed with about an equal amount of 

 brownish ash. I have never seen specimens entirely fuscous or brownish 

 cinereous below; but think it probable that such a state of plumage charac- 

 terizes very young birds. 



liimensions. Chord of culmen 1-12 ; height of bill at base -45 ; width slig^itly 

 1°8S. Tarsus 1*25 ; middle toe and claw 1-60 ; outer do. 1-50 ; inner do. 1 37. 

 Tail 3-50 ; wing 8 to 9. 



There is no other known Petrel with a square tail, conspicuously tipped 

 with white. This peculiarity is mentioned in the various descriptions of the 

 authors cited above in the list of synonyma, so that there is no difficulty in 

 identifying their names. The similis of Forster* is said to have " rectrices 12 

 omnes apice candido-fiisciatae " which positively determines the species, al- 

 though that author is in error in saying that it has the bill " non pectina- 

 tum." 



PSEUDOPRION Cones. 



Chs Lateral lamellae of upper mandible normally developed, their surfaces 

 vertical. Lateral outline of bill straight. Dorsal outline concave to the 

 unguis. Unguis comparatively large, its chord forming more than a third of 

 the total length of the culmen. Commissural edge of upper mandible not dila- 

 ted. Inf. rior mandibular rami straight, divaricating at an acute angle ; the 

 lateral sulcus apparent. No groove for reception of fiioge from upper mandi- 

 ble, which is either quite obsolete or imperfectly developed towards the end of 

 the bill. Interramal space narrow, triangular, well feathered. Extension of 

 feathers on side of lower mandible not further than those on culmen. Tail 

 moderately graduated. 



Type. Frion iurtur Gould. 



la amplification of the differences between the so-called Frion Banksii, tur- 



•Concerning which Prof. Lichtenstein says very erroneously, " Speciea obscura, ulteriori ex- 

 amini relinquenda. A Pr. vittata (Pachyptila) non esse diversam nisi aetate suspicor." 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



165 



tur, artel and ? brevirostris, and Prion proper, the following comparison is in- 

 stituted. 



The frinpre of laminae is smaller and weaker, and inflected inwards rather 

 than descending: vertically; and it is either restricted to a short space near the 

 base of the bill (turlur, ariel, ? brevirostris) being quite obsolete more anterior- 

 ly; or if as in Banksii'xi extends to the unguis, it is small, weak and incon- 

 spicuous. The lateral lamellae of the bill have scarcely more of development 

 and inflation than in other genQva. of Procellariinse^ instead of being immensely 

 hypertrophied ; and they have a lateral, vertical aspect, instead of a superior 

 nearly horizontal one. The commissural edge of the upper mandible looks 

 downwards, with little inflation or reflection outwards, and nearly (though not 

 quite except apically) touches the under mandible. There is no groove for 

 the reception of the fringe of the upper mandible ; but in its place the ordinary 

 lateral sulcus of the sides of the lower mandible is apparent, though not very 

 strongly marked. The inferior mandibular rami divaricate at an acute angle, 

 and are quite straight, instead of widely diverging with a mutual concavity. 

 The submental space, narrow and triangular instead of broadly conoidal, is 

 quite fully feathered, instead of nearly naked ; and doubtless has little of the 

 distensibility which characterizes that of Prion. The extent of the feathers on 

 the lower mandible is much more restricted. The unguis of the bill is larger, 

 stronger, more convex, its tip more decurved, the chord of its convexity form- 

 ing more instead of less than a third of the length of the culmen. The lateral 

 outline of the bill is straight not convex. The tail is shorter than in Prion, 

 being contained nearly twice in the wing ; and it is less cuneiform, The nos- 

 trils and the proportions of the feet, are as in Prion ; while the entire simi- 

 larity, almost identity, of the coloration has doubtless had much to do with 

 the referring of the species of this genus to Prion. 



In the following antithetical table the main diagnostic points of the two 

 genera are contrasted. 



Differential Elements. 

 . Frinje (f serrations. 



PSEUDOPRION. 



a. Poorly developed, or 

 entirely obsolete to- 

 v^ards end of bill. 



6. Normal ; vertical ; not 

 vaulted ; nor with 

 inflated free edge. 



c. Concave. 



d. Of ordinary size, its 



chord more than a 

 third of culmen. 



e. Straight. 

 /. Absent. 



g. Apparent. 



h. Nearly straight. 



i. Narrowly triangular, 

 well feathered. 



k. Extend no further than 

 those on culmen. 



I. Moderately graduated, 

 central feathers not 

 protruding; contain- 

 ed nearly twice in 

 the wing. 



1866.] 



b. Lateral lameUse of bill. 



Dorsal outline of cul- 

 men. 

 Unguis. 



e. Lateral outline of bill. 



f. Groove for reaption of 



fringe. 



g. Lateral groove en lower 



mandible. 



h. Cutting edges of lower 

 mandible. 



i. Interramal or submental 

 space. 



k. Feathers on lower man- 

 dible. 



1. Tail. 



Prion. 



a. Extensively and com- 



pletely developed 

 throughout. 



b. Hypertrophied ; hori- 



zontal ; arched ; with 

 inflated free edge. 



c. Straight. 



d. Very small ; its chord 



less than a third of 

 culmen. 



e. Convex. 

 /. Present. 



g. Wanting. 



h. Very sinuate. 



i. Broadly conoidal, near- 

 ly naked. 



k. Extend much beyond 

 those on culmen. 



I. Much graduated, cen- 

 tral feathers elonga- 

 ted, contained one 

 and a half times in 

 the wing. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



PsKUDOi'RioN Banksii (Smith) Coues. 



Vachi/ptila Banksii, A. Sraitli, 111. S. Afrlc. Bds. pi. 55. 



Prion Banksii, Gould, Ann. Mag. N. H. 1844, xiii. p. 3GG. Gray, Gen. Birds, 



iii. 1849, p. G49. Bonaparte, 0, A. 1855, ii. p. 193. 

 Procellaria Banksii, Sclilegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1803, p. 17. 



llahitaL — Antarctic regions, coming northward into temperate latitudes of 

 both Hemispheres. 



This species may be readily recognized by the continuation to the unguis of 

 the fringe of lamina>, whereas in the others of the genus it is confined to a 

 short spice near the base of the bill. The laminations are, however, very 

 small anteriorly ; and are somewhat deflected inwards. 



In colors the species of both Pseudoprion and Prion are so nearly identical 

 that, compared with Prion vittatus, the present species seems to differ in hardly 

 aught else than in the less amount of blackish towards the tail. On the mid- 

 dle feathers it is about an inch in depth ; laterally decreasing so rapidly that 

 there is hardly a trace of it on the three outermost. The bill and feet, how- 

 ever, are differently colored. 



Dimensions. Bill (chord of culmen) a little more than one inch; width at 

 widest point 0*50, height at base 0*44, at unguis about the same. Nasal tubes 

 •18. Tarsus 1-25. Middle toe and claw 1-50, outer do. about the same ; inner 

 do. 1 25. Wing 7 50 to 8-00. Tail 4-00 ; its graduation about -75. 



Pseudoprion turtur (Banks) Coues. 



Procellaria turtur, " Banks icon. 15," and Solander'sMSS. fideBp. ? Kuhl, Mon 

 Proc. Beit. Zool. 1820, p. 143, No. 14, pi. xi. fig. 8. A. Smith, 111. Zool 

 S. Afric. Bds. pi. 54. Gray, Genera Birds, 1849, iii. p. 648. Schlegel 

 Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 17. 

 Prion turtur, Gould, Ann. Mag. N. H. xiii. 1844, p. 366. Introd. B. Aust. p 

 117, No. 602.— Id. B. Aust. vii. pi. 54. Bonaparte, C. A. 1856. ii. p 

 193. 

 7/aAi7a«.—" Whole Pacific Ocean, between 30° and 50° of south latitude.' 

 (Gould.) 



A species absolutely identical with P. Banksii in colors of plumage; but 

 readily to be distinguished from that species by its somewhat smaller size, de- 

 cidedly slenderer and more compressed bill, and especially by the restriction 

 of the fringe of laminee to the base of the bill, and their very incomplete de- 

 velopment. The bill and feet are described as similarly colored with those of 

 Prion vittatus; the webs flesh colored. The following measurements, particu- 

 larly of the bill, taken from a specimen in the Philadelphia Academy, are to be 

 compared with those of Banksii above given. 



Chord of culmen 1-00; width of bill at base 0-33 ; height at base 0-37; at 

 unguis the same. Nasal tubes 0-18 ; tarsus 1-15; middle toe and claw 1-45; 

 outer do. 1-50; inner do. 1-25. Wing 7-25; tail 3-50; its graduation 0-50. 

 1;;^ Authors agree in identifying the Pr. turtur of Banks' and Solander's ineditae 

 with the species beautifully figured by Mr. Gould under this name, and dis- 

 tinguished from Banksii by the characters given in the preceding paragraphs. 

 Following the P. turtur in Bonaparte's Conspectus is given a ^^ Pr. Bossi, 

 Gr. Mus. Britatin. ex Mar. antarcticis. Similis Prioni turttiri ; sed minor, et 

 proportionibus diversis ; rostro latiore." I do not know what this can be ; 

 unless, as is quite probable, it indicates the I'rion ariel, Gould. 



Pseudoprion ariel (Gould) Coues. 



7 Procellaria turtur, K\x\i\, lion. Proc. Beit. Zool. 1820, p. 143, pi. xi. fig. 8. 



(Also of Lesson, according to Bonaparte.) 

 ? Procellaria velox, Banks, ic. ined. No. 16, fide Bp. 

 Prion ariel, GonXA, " Proc. Zool. Soc." Ann. Mag. N. H. 1844, xiii. p. 366.— 



Introd. B. Aust. p. 117, sp. 605. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. l67 



Procellaria artel, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus, Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 18. 

 JIalobsena typica, Bp. C. A. 1856, ii, p. 194. 



Habitat. — Australian Seas. 



I have not been able to find where this species is originallj'- described by 

 Mr. Gould, if it has been at all more than named by him. From Dr. Schlegel's 

 description* of typical specimens received by him from Mr. Gould, it appears 

 to have exactly the colors, and the development of the lamina? of the bill which 

 obtain in P. turtur ; and to be distinguished from that species by its smaller 

 size ; and a very slender bill, wider than high at the base. 



Synonrjmy. It is a little uncertain to which species the P, turtur of Kuhl's 

 Monograph, No. 14, fig. 8, really refers. The figure of the bill agrees quite 

 nearly with a specimen of the turtur Gould, of the preceding article of this 

 paper ; but the description given by Dr. Kuhl, and especially the measure- 

 ments rather seem to indicate the present species, ariel, Gould. But Dr. Kuhl 

 also gives the measurements " Avis aliquantam major," which rather are those 

 of the true turtur. There are cited Bank's turtur^ pi, 15, and also Pr. velox 

 Banks, pi. 16, as synonyraa; the first of which (according to most authors) 

 representing the turtur of Mr. Gould, and of this paper; the second indicating 

 the true arid of Gould. Under the circumstances, it is evident that Kuhl's 

 turtur may be, without violence, referred to either of the two species ; and 

 authors are about equally divided in opinion regarding it. 



Bonaparte's Conspectus does not admit ariel as a valid species ; but has 

 instead a certain Halobsana typica Bp. based upon a specimen in the Paris 

 Museum. He cites '■'■ turtur ^^ Lesson, Kuhl, fig. 8, and " velox?" Banks, pi. 16, 

 as synonyms; and his diagnosis presents no points forbidding the reference of 

 this H. typica to the Prion ariel of Gould, with which Dr. Schlegel considers 

 it as synonymous. 



? PSEUDOPRION BREVmOSTRIS (Gould). 



Prion brevirostris, Gould, P. Z. S., 1855, p. 88, pi. 93. 



"Upper surface delicate blue ; edge of the shoulder, the scapularies, outer 

 margins of the external primaries, and tips of the middle tail feathers black ; 

 lores, sides of the head and all the under surface white, stained with blue on 

 the flanks and under tail coverts ; bill light blue, deepening into black on the 

 sides of the mandible and at the tip, and with a black line along the side of 

 the under mandible; feet light blue ; interdigital membranes flesh color. 



Length 10^ inches ; billyl; wing6|; tail 8|-; tarsi 1^." 

 I am only acquainted with this supposed species by the plate and descrip- 

 tion of Mr. Gould, above cited, and can offer no opinion regarding it. The 

 description does not indicate any tangible points of difference from P. ariel. 

 By Gray, and, I believe, also by the majority of writers, it is considered as a 

 synonym of P. ariel. 



PRION" Lac^pede. 

 Procellaria sp. Auct. 



Prion, Lacepede, Mem. de I'lnst., 1800—1801, p. 514. (Gray). 

 Pachyptila, Illiger, Prod., 1811, p. 274, No. 132. 

 Priamphus, Rafinesque, 1815, fide Bp. 



The essential characters of this genus lie in the peculiar shape of the bill 

 and the complete development of the serrated larainas, which are the dis- 

 tinguishing features of the group of which it is typical. The modifications to 

 which the bill is subjected produce a result which, compared with other Pro- 

 cellaridse, may be likened to that seen in the genus Cancroma among the 



* Schlegel 1. c. " Semblable k la Procellari i turtur. egii\ement par rapport aux lamelles dea 

 mandibules; mais de taille mons forte, et h bee plus faible. Aile 6 ponces 2 lijrnes ; pointe de 

 I'aile 2 pouce 3 lignes. Queue; pennes mitoyennes 2 pouces et 8 ii, 10 lignes ; peunes exteriiea 2 

 ponces et5 a, 7 lignes. Bee: longueur 9 a 10 lignps; hauteur 2 lignes et detnie ; largeur 3 lignes 

 et demie a 4 lignes. Tube nasal, 2 lignes. Tarse 12 a 13 lignes. Doigt du mileau 12 a 13 ligues. 

 Individus de Mers de I'Australie obtenus en 1863 de Mr. Gould." 



1866.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Ardcidce. I have not met with as detailed a description of its peculiarities 

 as seems dosirahle. 



The culmon, from the extremity of the nasal case to the root of the unguis, 

 i3 quite straight. Though rising up as a conspicuous ridge between the deep 

 longitudinal sulci on either side, its outline is broad, flat, depressed, and not 

 carinated. The unguis of the upper mandible is small and weak, and hardly 

 rises above the level of the culmen proper; its convexity and decurvation are 

 slight. 



On either side of the culmen, from the root of the nasal case to the junction 

 of the lateral mandibular lamellae wiih the unguis, lies a well-marked, deep 

 longitudinal sulcus ; the central line of which depression, from the end of the 

 nostrils to the unguis, is occupied by a distinctly defined ridge. 



The immensely-developed lateral lamellae of the superior mandible have so 

 great a lateral extension, as to make the width of the bill at its broadest part 

 nearly two-thirds its length. These lamellae are arched and inflated through- 

 out ; and their surface is superior, not lateral. The free commissural edge is 

 convex in outline; retreating slightly inwards and backwards from the 

 broadest point of the bill, which is a little in advance of its extreme base ; 

 converging more rapidly and nearly in a straight line thence to the unguis ; it 

 is dilated and bulging posteriorly where it overhangs, but by no means meets 

 or touches, the inferior mandibular rami ; more anteriorly, it is deflected 

 downwards, and terminally rests against the unguis of the lower mandible. 



From the under surface of the lateral lamella near its free edge grow a 

 series of serrated laminae, which extend from the very angle of the mouth to 

 the unguis ; their outline corresponding nearly to that of the edge of the 

 lamel'a whence they spring. They are directed downwards, with a little out- 

 ward and forward inclination. They are longest, largest, and their " set" is 

 most oblique at the broadest point of the bill ; whence, as they proceed either 

 forwards or backwards, they diminish in size and become more vertical in 

 direction. It is this fringe of serrations that is in apposition with the under 

 jaw ; forming, therefore, the true commissural edge df the upper mandible. 

 These laminae are, so to speak, a series of plates, antero-posteriorly thin, 

 elastic and yielding; transversely wide and resisting; whence it results that 

 they can readily be bent away from each other; but the series cannot be 

 laterally deflected, as a whole; exactly as is the case with the teeth of a 

 comb. 



The nasal tubes are very short, measuring hardly more than a fifth the 

 length of the culmen and unguis ; broad and depressed; placed conspicuously 

 high upon the base of the culmen. They are somewhat more elevated api- 

 cally than basally ; their apex is so deeply emarginate as to cause a partial 

 segregation of the two tubes towards their termination. The orifice of each 

 naris is circular; the internasal septum rather wide. 



Corresponding with the general shape of the upper, the lower mandible is 

 very broad ; its rami widely divaricating, presenting much concavity towards 

 each other. Its cutting edge is very sharp and strongly sinuate for its whole 

 length, being curved in several planes oblique to each other. From the 

 widest point, which is opposite the extremity of the feathers on its side, the 

 rami rapidly converge to the unguis ; which latter is very small and weak, its 

 gonys very concave in outline, its tip acute and much decurved. There is 

 hardly an eminentia symphysis. 



The true lateral sulcus of the rami, seen in most Procellariinse^ is wanting. 

 In its place we have, just external to the true cutting edge of the lower man- 

 dible, a groove which extends th« whole length of the ramus ; deepest and 

 most marked posteriorly; apically becoming obsolete. This groove, owing 

 to the inflection of the edge of the mandibular ramus, looks upwards and 

 outwards, and into it the fringe of laminie are received. More anteriorly 

 where the groove is obsolete, the teeth simply abut against the side of the 

 under mandible. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 169 



The broad space between the widely-separated, mutually concave inferior 

 mandibular rami is occupied by soft, more or less distensible skin, naked of 

 feathers, except a small triangular wedge which extends forwards from the 

 base only to a point but a little in advance of the termination of the feathers 

 on the side of the lower mandible. Even this patch does not fill the space 

 from side to side. The feathers on the side of the lower mandible extend as 

 far as the broadest point of the bill. The frontal feathers project a little on 

 the nasal ^ase. Retreating somewhat, they then stretch transversely across 

 the base of the lateral laraellfe, with no obliquity backwards, to the very edge 

 of the bill ; which is thence densely feathered to the angula oris. 



Bill about as long as the tarsus ; the latter equal to middle toe without its 

 claw; covered with quite regular hexagonal plates, largest antero-interiorly. 

 Outer toe and claw about equal to middle. Tip of inner reaching base of 

 middle. Hallux strong, straight, conical, placed rather low down. Folded 

 wings not surpassing tail. First and second primaries about equal ; last suc- 

 cessively more rapidlj graduated. Tail long; two-thirds the wing from the 

 carpus, or contained one and a half times in it; cuneate ; central rectrices 

 acuminately rounded and somewhat projecting; lateral ones more broadly 

 rounded and much graduated in length. 



Prion vittatus (Gm.) Lac^p. 



Procellaria vittata, Gmelin, S. N. i. pars ii. 1788, p. 560, and of authors. 



Prion vittatus, Lac^pede, Gray, Gen. Birds, 1849, iii. p. 649, and of later 



authors. 

 Pachyptila vittata, Illiger, Prod,, 1811, p. 275. 



Procellaria Forsteri, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 827. Not of Smith. 

 Pachyptila Forsteri, Swainson, Class. Birds, ii. p. 374. Lesson, Traite, 1831, p. 

 613. Jard. and Selb. Illust. Orn. pi. 47. Steph. Gen. ZooL xiii. 1825, 

 p. 251. 

 Procellaria latirostris, Bonnasrt^, Ency. Metod. 



Habitat. — Southern portions of both Atlantic and Pacific. 



Line over the eye white. A transocular dusky fiiscia. Entire upper parts 

 light grayish or plumbeous blue; which color, somewhat diluted, clouds the 

 sides of the breast and the flanks. Edge of wing, lesser coverts, outer vanes 

 and tips of four first primaries, and terminal area on tertials, blackish 

 plumbeous. Inner vanes of quill feathers and tips of tertials fading into 

 pearly or grayish white. Tail concolor with back ; passing terminally into 

 plumbeous black; which, from an extent of I2 inches on the central rectrices, 

 decreases successively to a bare trace on the outer ones. Under tail coverts 

 white, somewhat clouded with plumbeous. All other parts are pure white. 

 " Bill light blue, deepening into black on the sides of the nostrils and at the 

 tip, and with a black line along the sides of the under mandible ; irides very 

 dark brown ; feet beautiful light blue." [Gould.] 



Dr. Kuhl's fig. 13, and M. Temminck's PI. Col. 528, are by Dr. Schlegel sup- 

 posed to refer to the P. Banksii rather than to this species, contrary to the 

 opinion entertained by most ornithologists. The former figure measures 

 eleven-sixteenths of an inch in width at the widest part of the bill; a 

 dimension which the Banksii is hardly known to attain. 



In accordance with the views entertained in the preceding pages, the follow- 

 ing synopsis of the genera and species of the two sections treated of is pre- 

 pared. 



Family PROCELLARIID^. 



Subfamily Procellariin^. 

 Section jEstrelatex (Bp. 1855). 



The cutting edge of the upper mandible is not dilated nor furnished with 

 serrations. 

 1866.] 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus I. ^strki.ata Bp., 1855. Bill robust, compressed, its unguis large, 

 hooked from the nostrils. Interramal space narrow, fully feathered. Extension 

 of feathers on forehead moderate. Nasal case short. Tail more or less cunei- 

 form, the lateral rectrices much graduated. Hallux of ordinary size. 



1. A. ii;i:siTATA Coues, ex Proc. hxsitata Kuhl. Not of Forst., Reich., Gld. 

 nor Puff, hscsit. Lawr. Proc. brevirostris and meridionalis Lawr., or Fulmarus 

 meriJ. Bp., but not brevirostris Less. Pufjinus V Ilerminieri Less. j^Jsirelata 

 diabolica Bp. Large ; pileum and upper parts brown ; upper tail coverts, basal 

 half of tail, forehead and neck all around ^ 

 12-00; tail 5-50 ; middle toe and claw 2-12. 



2. A. Lessoni Oassin, ex Proc, Lessoni Garnot. Rhaniistes Lessoni Bp. Proc. 

 leucocephala. Forst. yEstrelata leuco. Bp, ?Pr. alba Gm. ?Daption album Steph. 

 Pr. variegata Bonn. Pr. vagabunda Sol. secundum Bp. Large ; head all around 

 white, except a transocular fascia. Back deep ash. Tail and coverts ashy 

 gray. Bill 1*50; tarsus 1*65 ; middle toe and claw 2-50. 



3. A. ROSTBATA Gray, ex Pr. rostrala Peale. Rhaniistes rest. Bp. Large, bill 

 exceedingly robust, along chord of culmen 1-37; height or width at base 066. 

 Wing 11-00, tail 4-75. Tarsus 1-75. With the pattern of coloration and nearly 

 the tints of young Lessoni. Frontal feathers running far forward on the nasal 

 case. 



4. A. PARViROSTRis Coues, ex Pr. parvirostris Peale. Rhantistes parvir. Bp. 

 Medium, bill slender and compressed, its length 1-08. Tarsus 1-25. Outer toe 

 and claw 1-66. Young? Above deep fuliginous brown, (no trace of ashy,) 

 this color extending all around the head and neck, on the tips of the feathers. 



5. A. INCERTA Coues, ex Pr. incerta Schlegel. — Large. Wing 11-50 ; tail nearly 

 5, much graduated. Bill 16 to 17 lines ; height 5 lines. Tarsus 1-50. Colors 

 as described much those of young Lessoni; to which the species may be ro- 

 ferrible. 



6. A. NEGLKCTA Coues, cx Pr. neglecta Schlegel. — Medium, with the colors of 

 incerta. Bill ; length 1-12 ; height 4 to 5 lines. Wing 10-00 inches. Per- 

 haps to be referred to parvirostris. 



7. A. SoLANDRi Coues, ex Proc. solandri Gould. — Cookilaria solandri Bp. — Pr. 

 melanopus '^{itt. nee. Gra. — Large; very robust. Length 16; bill 1-75; wing 

 12; tarsus -75; tail 5-50; middle toe and claw 2-37. Bill and feet black. 

 Above dark brown ; becoming slate gray on middle of back, and wing and tail 

 coverts. Young? Washed with gray on the abdomen. 



8. A. GRiSEA Coues, ex Pr. grisea Kuhl, according to Schlegel's identi- 

 fication. — Pr. lugens Banks, Forst. ined. ^st. inexpectata Bp. nee. Forst. 

 Medium, generally like mollis ; with a more compressed bill, and some discrep- 

 ancies in dimensions. Wing 9-50 ; tail 3-88 ; bill \l\ lines ; tarsus 16^ lines ; 

 middle toe 19 lines. 



9. A. MOLLIS Coues, ex Pr. mollis Gould. — Cookilaria and Rhaniistes mollis 

 Bp. — Pr. inexpectata Fovst. — ? Pr. melanopus Gm. Vieill. Steph. — ? Pr. gularis 

 Peale. — ? Pr. Philippii Gtslj. — ? Pr. crepidaia vel sandaliata Sol. according to 

 Bp. Medium, bill (chord of culmen) 1-10 ; height at base -45 ; width slightly 

 less; tarsus 1 33; outer toe and claw 1-75; wing ranging from 9-50 to 10-50 ; 

 tail 4-50. Under surfaces of the wings concolor with the upper. 



10. A. CooKii Coues, ex Pr. Cookii Gray. — Rhaniistes Cookii Bp. — Pr. leucop- 

 tera Gld. Cookilaria leucoptera and C. velox, Rhaniistes velox Bp. Pr. brevipes 

 Peale. Small. Bill 1-00, height at base -35. Wing 8-50 to 9-00 ; tail 3-75 to 

 4-25, its lateral graduation 1-00 to 1-50. Tarsus 110. Under wing coverts 

 and a line along edge of fore arm white. 



[May, 




I 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



11. A. GAVIA Coues, ex Pr. gavia Porst. (following G. R. Gray's authority.) 

 Small ; with the colors generally those of Cookii, including under wing coverts. 

 " Expanse 26 ; bill 1-50; tibiae 1-15 ; tail 2-50," [Forst.] 



12. A. DESOLATA Bp. ex Pr. desolata Gm. — Daption desolatum Steph. Small- 

 est. With the general colors of CooM. Wing 7-80; tail 3 40, its graduation 

 •75. Bill less than one inch. Tarsus or middle toe about 1-00. 



13. A. MACROPTERA Coucs, ex Pr, macroptera Smith. — Ossifraga macroptera 

 Reich. — Pterodroma mac. Bp. — Pr. brevirosiris Less. nee. Lawr. — ? Pr. luguhru 

 Tsch. Large; wings long ; face gray ; tarsi yellow. 



14. A. FULiQiNOSA Coues, ex Pr.fuliginosa Kuhl, sp. 12, (not fulig. Kuhl, sp. 

 27; not of Gm. Lath.; noi Puff, fulig. Strickl. not Nectris fuUg. Forst.) — Pr. 

 atlaniica G\d. Pterodroma atl. Bp. Large. Everywhere fuliginous; feet dark 

 colored. Billl-35. Tarsus 1-60; middle toe and claw 2-20; wing 10-75 to 

 11-50; tail 4-50 to S'OO. 



15. A. ATERRiMA Goues, cx Proc. aterrima Verr. — Pterodroma aterr. Bp. Small. 

 Tarsi light colored, passing into black upon the terminal portion of the toes. 

 Wing 8-50 ; tail 3-50 ; bill slightly more than an inch. Tarsus 1-33. 



16. A. BuLWERi Coues, ex Pr. Buliveri Jard. and Selby. Thalassid. Bulweri 

 Gray. — Pr. anjinho Heineken. — Puffinus columhinus Webb and Berth. — Bulweria 

 columbina Bp. Smallest. Proportionate length of tail to wing as 4-50 to 8 ; 

 graduation of tail 1-75 to 2-00. Bill -85 ; tarsus a little longer. 



17. A. Macgillivrayi Coues, ex Thalassidroma {Bulweria) macgillivrayi G. R. 

 Gray. Like Bulweri; bill larger; no sooty brown on wings. 



18. A. CARRiBiEi Coues, ex Pterodroma carribsei Carte. " Blue Mountain 

 Duck," Gosse. 



Genus II. Pagodroma Bp. 1855. Bill very short, moderately strong and 

 compressed. Forehead flattened ; and lengthened by the extension forward of 

 the feathers. Interramal space narrow, densely feathered. Nasal tubes short. 

 Hallux unusually developed. Tail long, broad, but slightly rounded. 



19. P. NiVBA Bp. ex Pr. nivea Gm. — Daption n. Steph. Thalassoica n. Reich. 

 — Proc. Candida Peale. Pagodroma var. major Bp, Entirely white. Subject to 

 great variations in size ; forming var. minor Bp. 



Genus III. Daption Steph. 1825. — Bill much dilated, unguis small and weak. 

 Interramal space wide and partially naked, oblique sulci on inner face of cut- 

 ting edge of mandible. Fasal tubes long. Hallux of ordinary size. Tail 

 rather short, moderately rounded. 



20. D. CAPENSis Steph. ex Pr. capensis Linn. — Pr, nsevia Briss. — Pr. punctata 

 EUni. Spotted with black and white oa upper parts. 



Section PRIONEJE (Bp. 1855.) 



The upper mandible is furnished near its edge with laminated serrations. 



Genus I. Halob^na Is. Geoff. External form of bill much that of JSstrelata ; 

 serrations few and inconspicuous. Tail truncated. 



1. H. ccerulea Bp. ex Pr. coeruleaGm. Pachyptila coerulea 111. Steph. Pr. 

 similis Forst. Pr. Forsteri Smith, nee. Lath. Tail tipped with white. 



Genus IL Pseudoprion Coues. Serrations poorly developed or quite obso- 

 lete towards end of bill. Lateral lamellae of bill normal, their free edges un- 

 inflated. Culmen concave ; lateral outline of bill straight. Interramal space 

 narrow, well feathered. No sulcus for reception of fringe. Tail moderately 

 long and rounded, contained nearly twice in the wing. 



1866.] 




172 PROOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



2. Ps. Banksii Coues, ex Pachyptila Banksii^mxih. — Prion B. Gld. Procellaria 

 B. Schl. Tlie frinja^e of serrations is apparent to the end of the bill. Chord of 

 culmen 1'05 j widlh of bill at widest point -50 ; height at base -44. 



3. Ps. TURTUR Coues, ex Proc. turtur Banks " icon. ined. No. 15." — Also of 

 Kuhl? Prion turtur Gld. The fringe of serrations is confined to the basal por- 

 tion of the bill. Chord of culmeu 1*00 \ height of bill at base -37; width -33. 



4. Ps. ARiBL Coues?, ex Prion ariel Gould. — ? Proc. turtur Kuhl. — Proc. ariel 

 Schl. Ualohccna typica Bp. — ? Prion brevirostris Gld. Smaller than turtur. 

 Bill 9 to 10 lines, height 2^ lines ; width ^ to 4 lines. 



Genus III. Prion Lac6p. 1800—1. Serrations developed to the maximum. 

 Lateral lamellae hypertrophied, with inflated free edges. Culmen straight; 

 lateral outline of bill convex to the unguis. A deep sulcus on either side of 

 the culmen ; another on the lower mandible for reception of the fringe. Inter- 

 ramal space broad, nearly naked. Tail elongated, much graduated, contained 

 1^^ times in the wing. 



5. Pr. vittatus Lacep. ex Proc. vittata Gm. Pachyptila vitt. 111. Proc. Fors- 

 ieri Lath. nee. Smith. Pachypt. Forsteri Swains. Proc. latirosiris Bonn. Greatest 

 width of bill three-fourths of an inch or more. 



In a subsequent paper will be considered the Diomedeinx and Ualodromins:. 



Critical Review of the Family PROCELLAIlIID.a: ;— Part V ; embracing the 

 DIOMEDEINJS and the HALODROMIN.S:. With a General Supplement. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES, M. D., U. S. A. 



The group composed of the Albatrosses is so trenchantly distinguished from 

 all other Natatores^ that for its definite characterization it is only necessary to 

 advert to the absence of the hallux, and to the position of the rhinothecae. In 

 other morphological points the Albatrosses conform closely to the type of 

 structure which obtains throughout the Procellariinse. 



The Halodromes, if really components of the family ProcelJariidce, are the 

 most curiously aberrant of all the Gavise or Longipennine Natatores. They 

 appear to hold a quite anomalous position, intermediate between several nata- 

 torial suborders. The very short falcate wings, no less than the absence of the 

 hallux; the general configuration of the body, and especially the position of 

 the posterior extremities relative to the axis of the body ; as well as the com- 

 pactly imbricated, glossy plumage ; indicate a close affinity with the Urinatoren^ 

 or Brachypterous Natatores. These structural resemblances are borne out by 

 the attitudes, habits, and mode of life of the species, so far as we are acquain- 

 ted with them ; which are rather those of Guillemots than of Petrels. The 

 dilation of the bill, particularly of the under mandible, and the partially naked 

 and distensible submental skin, which forms an imperfect pouch, point to a 

 type of structure extensively prevailing amone: the Toiipalmi. Most of the lat- 

 ter have the rhynchotheca segmented ; so that almost the only character of the 

 Halodromes which is strictly Procellaridian is the tubulation of the rhinothe- 

 ca ; and even in this feature the details of shape and direction of axis are en- 

 tirely unique. So far indeed as external characters are concerned, arguments 

 are adducible for their reference to either of the three tribes above alluded to ; 

 and especially to the Urinatores. It remains for the scalpel to finally deter- 

 mine their true affinities. 



By Illiger'^ the tubulation of the rhinotheca has been made indicative of a 

 tribe (although called a family) Tubinares, which is attaching to it a value 

 coordinate with such a character as e. g. the membranous union of the hallux 



* ProdromuB, 1811, p. 274. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 173 



with the inner anterior digit, which defines what we now recognize as the tribe 

 or rather suborder Totipalmi, embracing numerous families. Proceeding upon 

 this basis we should be obliged in like manner to form a tribe or suborder 

 " Linearinares " of what is now known as the family Laridse^ and erect its four 

 recognized subfamilies into as many families. 



By Bonaparte* the order Gaviae is made to consist of two tribes, the Toti- 

 palmi and the Longipenmx, ; the latter containing two families, — Laridx and 

 Frocellarndx — the differences between which essentially rest in the linear or 

 tubular form of the nostrils; for continuity or division of the corneous rostral 

 envelope does not always point to one or the other family, as the Lestridinse of 

 the Laridce have somewhat the features of the ProcellariidcB in this respect. In 

 this arrangement an essentially brachypterous bird, — one truly a *' diver " 

 rather than a "flyer" in the sense in which these words are technically ap- 

 posed — is classed among the Longipennines. 



If a tubular rhinotheca be really the most essential feature, and at the same 

 time of no more than family value, then its modifications may with propriety be 

 held as indicative of three subfamilies Diomedeinse^ ProcellarimcB, and Halodro- 

 viinsn. Bui it is questionable whether such be indeed the case. An approach 

 to this feature is seen in the Lestridinse, (of a family otherwise exhibiting 

 strictly linear basal nostrils, and an undivided rhjnchotheca ;) in which the 

 so-called "cere" is really a segmentation of the corneous envelope and pro- 

 bably also indicative of tubulation of the nares. It is by no means proven 

 that the peculiar nostrils of the Procellariidse as generally defined, should not 

 be held as subsidiary in importance to, or at least of no more than coordinate 

 value with, other points of structure. Upon such an hypothesis the birds now 

 called Procellariidse, would be divisible into three families, somewhat accord- 

 ing to the following schedule : — 



I. Tridactyle. 



A. Macropterous ; "flyers;" the tubular nostrils disjoined, 



lateral, horizontal Diomedeidm. 



B. Brachypterous; "divers:" the tubular nostrils united. 



culminal, vertical Halodromidce. 



II. Tetradactyle. 



Macropterous ; " flyers ; " the tubular nostrils united, cul- 

 minal, horizontal Procellariidse. 



But this arrangement is as faulty as the others, in the presence of an incon- 

 gruous brachypterous element; and we should moreover be obliged to recog- 

 Lize a tribe or suborder for the three families thus collocated. 



It will be ev\dent, therefore, that so long as we regard a tubular rhinotheca 

 as a primary fundamental character, not permitting of a wide separation of the 

 forms in which it is present, we shall bring into juxtaposition certain types 

 widely dissimilar from each other in most other respects ; and that we do not 

 obviate this difficulty when we make this character indicative of a suborder, 

 under which several families may be ranged, any more than in considering it 

 as of family importance, and forming our subfamilies upon its modifications. 

 In either case we are met by the same objection. It remains to be proven that 

 tubulation of the external nares is not a feature of subordinate importance to 

 others, and as such, one which may coexist in types otherwise presenting a 

 widely diverse assemblage of characters. In which event, at least one genus 

 now held as Procellaridian will be found to constitute a family of quite a dif- 

 ferent suborder ; and certain others will form at least a family distinct from 

 that of the Petrels proper. The test of anatomical investigation must be ap- 

 plied before the question can be definitely settled ; for iu one sense external 

 characters of every sort are but the indices, as it were, of fundamental struc- 



* Schema SyntematiB Oraitbologise, Ocmpt. Rend, xxxvii. 1853. 



1866.] 




174 PROOEEDTNOS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



tural modifications ; nnd as snch unavailable for the truly scientific definition 

 of groups of a higher grade than families. 



In calling attention to the foregoing considerations, I wish to be understood 

 as offering no opinion upon the questions involved, and particularly as by no 

 means asserting that the llalodromes are not true Procellaridians. It is rarely 

 of use to exchange one doubtful opinion for another; and for the present I 

 shall follow the usually received classification. Bnt it is safe to affirm that by 

 the determination of the proper affinities of these birds the exact value of the 

 character of tabulation of the rhinotheca is to be ascertained. 



Subfamily DIOMBDEINJE. 



In a careful study of the Albatrosses, the interesting fact becomes evident, 

 that we have an easy and convenient means of accurate diagnosis of species in 

 the characters afforded us by the bill alone. All the known species differ from 

 each other by perfectly tangible and readily appreciable variations in the size, 

 shape and color of the bill ; in the configuration of its several corneous ele- 

 ments, and in the outline of the feathers around its base. This la»ter feature, 

 conjointly with the shape of the corneous covering of the culmen in that por- 

 tion of its extent which is posterior to the nares, gives us such reliable data 

 that we need hardly enquire further. I shall, theiefore, in the following pages 

 confine myself chiefly to detailed descriptions of the bill ; and it will be noticed, 

 as supporting the foregoing assertions, that a synoptical table may be drawn 

 up solely upon the characters mentioned above. 



As we shall study the bill somewhat in detail, I introduce, for convenience 

 of description, several words expressive of the different corneous elements 

 which cover it; the meaning of which will be obvious. I may remark that the 

 piece interposed between the inferior mandibular rami at the lower border of 

 their symphysis (here called the " interramicorn,") is a feature which also 

 definitely characterizes this group, as it is present in no other. The presence 

 of a well defined membranous fringe on the exterior toes is also highly charac- 

 teristic. 



In the following pages I describe eleven species — one of them supposed to be 

 new — and indicate the possible existence of a twelfth. Of these one differs so 

 much from the rest that it may be properly made the type of a genus distinct 

 from Diomedea. The remaining species have also been subdivided into several 

 genera, chiefly by Prof. Reichenbach- Such a collocation of species is cer- 

 tainly natural, regarded as simply expressive of the fact that certain of them 

 are more intimately allied to each other, than they are to the species of another 

 group ; but the differences presented seem hardly sufficient to warrant our at- 

 taching generic import to them. The following will serve to explain the point 

 alluded to. 



Group A. Comprising exulanSj hrachyura, nigripes, gibbosa. Of largest and 

 medium size. The bill is very broad, stout and heavy ; and especially very 

 wide at its base, and is uniform in color. The colors of the plumage are white, 

 variegated with black, especially upon the wings; or uniform fuliginous. The 

 tail is very short. The nostrils are large, and wide. Exulans may be cousid- 

 erad as typical of this group. The length of tail reaches its minimum in bra- 

 chyura, upon which character Prof. Reichenbach founds his genus Phoebas- 

 tria. 



Group B. Comprising melanophrgs, GiUiana, n. sp. canta, culminafa, chloro- 

 rhyncha^ olivaceirostris. Of medium and rather small size. Bill shorter, weaker, 

 and considerably compressed, usually bright or parti-colored. White, with black 

 back and wings. Tail long, slightly rounded. Melanophrys may be taken as the 

 type of this group, which constitutes the genus Thalassarche Reich. Both mela- 

 nophrys and GiUiana differ from the other three species in the character of the 

 culminicorn, as will be hereafter more particularly elucidated. 



So varying are the characters of shape of bill, outline of frontal feathers, 

 length of tail, etc., that I think they can hardly be made typical of distinct 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



genera, B. fuliginom itself would be hardly separable were it not for the pre- 

 sence of some features radically distinct from, and not merely a modification or 

 varying combination of those presented by Diomedea proper. 



DIOMEDEA Linnaeus. 



Diomedea^ Linnaeus, S. N. 1Y58, and of authors. Type D. exulans. 

 Fhoebastria, Reichenbach, Syst. Av. Type D. hrachyura Temm. 

 Thalassarchc, Reichenbach, Syst. A v. Type D. melanophrr/s Boie. 



Under this head I shall consider all the species of Albatross except D.fuligi- 

 nosa. Its general characters have already been sufficiently elucidated. The 

 points of difference between it and Fhoebetria will be found in the synoptical 

 table at the end of this article. 



Diomedea exulans Linnceus. 



Diomedea exulans^ Linn. S. N. i. 1766, p. 214 ; and of authors. PI. Enlum. No. 



237.— Vieill. Gal. pi. 295.— Gould, B. Aust. pi. 38, etc. 

 Bioviedea spadicca, Gmel. S. N. i. pt. ii. 1788, p. 568. — Lath. Syn. v. 1785, p. 

 308, No. 2.— Lath Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 790.— Lath. Gen. Hist. 1824, x. 

 p. 52, No. 2 ; (excl. Var. B.) Banks ic. ined. t. 25, fide Gray. Young. 

 Diomedea alb atr lis, Pallas, Zoog. Rosso-As. ii. 1811, p. . Forster, Desc. 



Anira. ed. Licht. 1844, p. 27. 

 ? Diomedea adusta, Tschudi, Cab. Journ. f. Ornith. 1856, p. 157, sp. 7. 



Habitat. — Southern Hemisphere at large ; ranging to a considerable distance 

 north in the Pacific. 



The great size of this species renders it easy of recognition in any of its very 

 diverse plumages. I will confine myself to a description of the bill, the gen- 

 eral features of which may be taken as the standard of reference for all the 

 species of the subfamily. 



The frontal feathers form a rather obtuse angle on the forehead, whence they 

 run forward on the side of the upper mandible to a point a little posterior to the 

 root of the nostrils ; whence, with a slight backward obliquity, they extend to 

 the commissure. On the sideof the lower mandible tbey come forward far 

 beyond those on the upper, and have a very convex — almost angular — outline. 

 This latter feature is constant, and of great value in distinguishing small exu- 

 lans from large brachyura when both are in fuliginous plumage. (Compare 

 outline as described under brachyura,) The point, of greatest extension is 

 nearly opposite the middle of the nostrils. The frontal feathers form a more 

 reentrant concavity on the forehead, and a more salient convexity on the side 

 of the lower mandible, than in any other species except fuliginosa. 



By gentle maceration in warm water, into which a little potassa or soda has 

 been thrown, the various corneous elements of the bill readily separate from 

 it and from each other, so that we can advantageously study them. 



The " culminicorn" is transversely broad a' d rounded, but may be some- 

 what compressed or even a little carinated ; a great difference in these 

 respects being observable in a large series of bills. Its dorsal outline descends 

 in a nearly straight line from the base to the middle of the bill; whence it 

 more rapidly rises with much concavity to the base of the unguis. Its inferior 

 border is curved with a convex border from its distal extremity to the 

 nostrils ; then a considerable concavity is formed by the cutting away of a 

 space for the emergence of the nostrils. Behind these, it again dips down with 

 a salient convexity to join the upper edge of the latericorn ; their union, how- 

 ever, being rather a point than a line. The outline of the base corresponds 

 with that of the frontal feathers above given; and there are usually found a 

 few corrugations parallel with this outline. The distal extremity is more or 

 less fused with the superior unguicorn or dertrotheca, especially on the median 

 line of the culmen. 



The " latericorn " corresponds in its superficies with the shape of the mandi- 



1866.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



bular ramus of the intermaxillary. Its superior border is nearly straight for its 

 whole length ; no eniargination existing opposite the nostrils, nor hardly any 

 decurvation in its terminal portion. A corneous ridge, incompletely fused with 

 it, separates its true superior border from the inferior border of the culmini- 

 corn — occupying the length of the sulcus from the nostrils to its termination. 

 Its inferior border is sharp and regularly curved in outline for its whole length. 

 Internal to the commissural edge, it extends as an exceedingly delicate, thin 

 liimina to line the roof of the mouth, fusing, anterior to the palatal fissure, 

 with its fellow of the other side; more posteriorly distinct, and descending to 

 cover the large swollen palatal bones, which latter make a prominent ridge on 

 either side of the roof of the moutli towards its posterior part. The basal 

 outline of the latericorn is that of the lateral frontal feathers, as above 

 described. It terminates in an acute angle anteriorly. 



The " unguicorn " or dertrotheca is large and strong, in size, shape and 

 general appearance calling irresistibly to mind the claw of one of the large 

 Felidx. It is much thicker, heavier and stouter than any other of the corneous 

 elements. The convexity of its dorsal outline is great, being more than the 

 quadrant of a circle. Its commissural edges are thin and sharp, very concave 

 iu outline: usually with an obsolete tooth, or, at least, a slight lobe. 



The " naricorn " or rhinotheca is an irregularly convoluted little scroll, very 

 thin, and delicate in texture. Its general shape is that of a turgid cone, 

 whose apex presents backwards, and whose obliquely-truncated, irregularly- 

 shaped base is anterior. This is simply inserted in the emargination of the 

 under edge of the culminicorn, above described. A corneous parietes is want- 

 ing on the side which lies towards the median line of the bill ; and, more 

 auteriorly, there are numerous delicate convolutions, impossible to describe 

 intelligibly. The general effect of these, however, is to produce a division into 

 two parts of each nasal orifice, by a process which projects upwards and 

 inwards. When the naricorns are in situ, the outer of these divisions, irre- 

 gularly circular in shape, forms the most conspicuous part, and looks forward 

 and a little upwards. The inner is much smaller, and hidden under a project- 

 ing ridge ; and its aspect is quite lateral. 



The "ramicorn" which covers the sides of the rami of the lower mandible is 

 chiefly noticeable for the peculiar outline of its base, which, as already stated, 

 formed the distinguishing feature of the under mandible of this species. It is 

 deeply concave in outline; the superior cornu of the serailune running as an 

 acute process, far upwards and backwards to the commissural termination. 

 Terminally, the fusion with the inferior unguicorn is very incomplete. Its supe- 

 rior border runs downwards with a long concave sweep from base to tip ; 

 having posteriorly an obsolete groove for the reception of a ridge from the 

 upper mandible. Inside the mouth, more anteriorly, the inner face of the 

 ramicorn presents an elongated extensive ridge, whose superior aspect is con- 

 cave, both longitudinally and transversely. This ridge rises higher and 

 higher as it proceeds forward, till at its termination it is on a level with the 

 commissural edge. The ridge in the bone itself is slight in size, compared 

 with that produced by the folding over it of the heavy corneous covering. 



The ''inferior unguicorn" or myxotheca is subrectangular in its lateral 

 aspect, the antero-superior angle being rounded off", and its posterior margin a 

 little convex. Its tomial edges are sharp ; and rise considerably above the 

 edges of the bone they cover. 



The "interramicorn" forms the gonal element of the bill. It is narrow, elon- 

 gated and subcylindrical in shape; anteriorly completely fused with the myx- 

 otheca ; posteriorly extending on the median line a considerable distance into 

 the interramal space, running to a fine point, and very gradually merging its 

 corneous texture into that of ordinary dermal tissue. 



The general shape of the bill appears sufficiently elucidated in the preced- 

 ing descriptions of its several elements. The features whereby it is diflFer- 

 eatiated from that of any other species are these : Its great size, (chord of 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 177 



culmen 6-50 to 7-50;) its great breadth and strength ; width and concavity of 

 the culmen; huge, strong unguis; peculiar convolutions of the naricorn ;* 

 the outline of the fearhers^ particularly/ on the side of the under mandible ; and 

 the uniform, very light yellowish color. These points will always separate 

 from hrachyura specimens of every variety of size and color. 



The D. spadicea of Gmelin and Latham is now universally conceded to be 

 based upon the young of this species. Latham's spadicea var. B., however, I 

 consider to be the young hrachyura, for reasons stated elsewhere. 



Mons. R. P. Lesson, holding that spadicea is distinct from exulans, corami's 

 the curious error of citing in support of his views a note sent him by Dr. 

 Garnot, which refers to Phoebetria fuliginosa.f 



Biomedea adusta Tsch. seems hardly different from this species, to which it is 

 unhesitatingly referred by Dr. Schlegel. 



DiOMBDKA BRACHYURA Temm. 



Diomedea spadicea, var. B., Lath. Gen. Hist. Birds , 1824, vol. x. p. 52, No. 2, 



var. B. ; (cites PI. Enl. 963). 

 Diomedea hrachyura, Temminck, PL color. No. 554, adult, (cites PI. Enlum. 

 963, as young.) Schlegel, Fn. Japon. pi. 66. (Young.) Gould B. 

 Aust. vii. pi. 39, and of authors generally : excluding " hrachyura juv.'- 

 of Cassin aiid Lawrence, which is nigripes Audubon. 

 Diomedea epomophora, Lesson, Man. Orn. ii, 1828, p. 351. — Id. Traite d'Ornith., 

 1831, p. 609. Tschudi, Cab. Journ. f. Ornith., 1856, p. 156. Bp. C. A., 

 1855, ii. p. 185, [hand dubie.] 

 " Diomedea chinensis, Temminck." 



Habitat. — Pacific Ocean at large. Abundant in the China Seas, and on the 

 west coast of North America to a quite high latitude. 



As is the case with other species, this one is readily diagnosticable by its 

 bill alone. This is of the same fundamental character as that of exulans ; but 

 it is smaller, weaker, more compressed, with a vastly less concave culmen, less 

 elevated, robust, and more attenuated and decurved unguis ; and there is a 

 very marked difi^erence in the outline of the feathers around its base. 



The frontal feathers embrace the bill in a nearly straight line as far as the 

 lateral sulcus; forming almost no concavity on the culmen. Along the base 

 of the latericorn, they run slightly obliquely backwards to the commissure. 

 On the sides of the lower mandible they extend but slightly further than on 

 the upper, having a scarcely convex outline. 



The bill is stout, being especially wide at its base, which is large and heavy. 

 Anterior to the nostrils, the culminicorn is compressed, and sometimes obso- 

 letely carinated ; posterior to them, it very rapidly flattens and widens, and 

 extends so far downwards on either side that there is allowed no projection of 

 the postf-ro- superior corner of the latericorn. The latter, with the exception 

 of this feature, and of a straighter commissural edge, is much as in exulans. 



The dertrum is comparatively small : hardly rises above the level of the 

 culmen; and is by no means so convex and hooked at the tip as in exulans. 

 The myxa is longer, narrower and more attenuated. 



The straightness of the commissure as compared with that of exulans ; and 

 the diflfereni outline of the feathers on the side of the lower mandible, are the 

 main points wherein the outline of the ramicorus of the two species differ. 



The nostrils are as in exulans, but smaller. The variations in plumage of 



• Existing, but to a less extent, in some other species. 



t Lesson, Man., 1828, ii. p 300.— "Cette etpece "— spadjcea— '* a et§ regardfio comme le jeune 

 Sge du exwtows; mais nous ne partageons pas cette opinion. A ce sujet nous iinprimerons tex- 

 tuellement une note, que nous a remise M. le Doctenr Garnot * * il s'exprime ainsi « * » 

 autour des yeux qui sent brun clair on voit un petite cercle de plumes blanches interrompu par 

 une tache noir h. Tangle interne de I'oeil; le bee est noir ; la mandibule inf6rieure presente sur seB 

 faces deux lignes blanches membraneuses," etc., from which expressions it is palpable that a 

 specimen of fuliginosa furnished the subject of the note. 



1866.] 12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



this species are quite parallel with those of cxulans, and need not detain ns, as 

 they are well known. A shining rnsty yellow snfTusion of the feathers of the 

 head and neck id met with in perhaps the majority of adult specimens. 



That this species is the spadicea var. H. of Latham, as above, when in the 

 fuliginous state of plumage, is evidenced, if not by Latham's brief description, 

 by ins citation of PI. Enl., No. 963, which gives correctly the outline of the 

 frontal feathers and other points, whereby it is distinguishable from the young 

 fxidans. The same plate is also cited by Temminck himself as representing 

 the young brachyura. 



A specimen before me, unquestionably brachyura, is in precisely the state of 

 plumage described under the name epomophora by Lesson in his works above 

 cited, and recognized as a valid species by Tschudi and Bonaparte. The 

 relative amount of black and white on the wings is very variable, the latter 

 color sometimes pervading all the coverts; and at others being restricted to a 

 small spot at the elbow, producing the appearance which suggested Lesson's 

 Hume. 



The questions arising from the confounding of nigripcs Audubon with this 

 sp« cies are dis<'ussed under head of the latter. 



Note. — I find in the Smithsonian Institution a skull of an Albatross, want- 

 ing the lower jaw, in general features most like that of brachyura, (numerous 

 examples of which are before me,) but differing as follows : — 



It is considerably narrower and smaller in nearly all of its dimensions ; the 

 bill especially being slenderer, weaker and more compressed, with a less ele- 

 vated and smaller unguis. The frontal outline is decidedly more concave on 

 the median line. The culminicorn was narrower and less flattened basally ; 

 did not descend so low to meet the latericorn behind the nostrils, and was 

 more convex along its dorsal outline. The fronto-maxillary suture is nar- 

 rower. The palatal bones are smaller and narrower, and sink to the level of 

 the commissural edge murh sooner. 



A most marked difference is seen in the supra-orbital fossa for the lodgment 

 of tbe gland, whose secretion is poured into the nasal cavity. It is very 

 smflU, and particulady narrow ; so that the least width between it and its 

 f«llow is greater than in brachyura, although the skull is narrower. These 

 fossae have no floors whatever on their anterior halves. 



Numerous other minor differences may be summed up as resulting from the 

 smallness and narrowness of the skull, which is well illustrated by the follow- 

 ing measurements. It will bs noted that the bill is absolutely longer, and 

 therefore still more comparatively elongated than in brachyura. 



Dimension. 



Fronto-maxillary suture to tip of bill...l 



" *' " " occiput 



Greatest vtidth of bill 



" *' " skull (at post-orbital processes) 



Width of fronto-maxillary suture 



Length of supra orbital fossa 



L). brachyura.\D. leptorhyncha. 



Upon these meagre, though decided data, I do not like to formally introduce 

 a species ; and must, therefore; for the present, content myself with pointing 

 out the differences which exitt in the specimen to which I have affixed the 

 above name of lepiorhyncha. 



DiOMBDBA NIGRIPES Audubon. 



Diomedea niyripes, Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. 1839, p. 327. Audubon, Birds 

 Araer. vii. 1842, p. 198. [West coast Amer.] Cassin, Illust. B. Cal. & 

 Texas, 1853, p. 210, pi. 35. [Gala.] Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays- 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



179 



Bas, 1863, p. 33. [China.] Swinhoe, Ibis, 1863, p. 431. [China 

 Seas.] 

 Diomedea brachyurajuv. Cassin, Illust. B. Cal. & Tex., 1853, p. 291. Lawrence, 

 Baird's B. N. Amer., 1858, p. 822. 



ITabitat. — North Pacific. Coasts of Asia and America. 



Description* Bill about a third longer than the head, slightly surpassing the 

 tarsus, equal to the middle toe without its claw : comparatively stouter, and 

 basally wider, than that of any other species (except gibbosa?). The culmea 

 is perfectly straight to the middle of the bill; and has thence only a just 

 appreciable concavity to the unguis; which latter is weak and small, scarcely 

 rises above the level of the culmen proper, and is only moderately decurved 

 and acute. The culminicorn is moderately wide, and subcarinated beyond the 

 nostrils ; posterior to them it is flatter and wider, spreading down so far on 

 either side as to overlap the upper edge of the latericorn. Its comparative 

 width is greater than in any other species. Although the basal outline is 

 essentially rounded, as in brachyura^ there is yet a slight angle formed on the 

 median line, readily perceptible, which is not the case in brachyura. The 

 great comparative width of the bill is produced chiefly by the turgid and pro- 

 tuberant latericorns, which give it an air of great thickness and solidity. Ttie 

 lateral sulcus is nearly straight from nostrils to unguis, and thence is only 

 slightly decurved. The commissure is almost straight to the unguis. The 

 outline of the inferior mandibular rami is quite straight to the inferior unguis, 

 the point of which is somewhat elongated and decurved. The interraraicorn 

 is small and short, though quite convex in outline. The feathers on the side of 

 the lower mandible extend further than on the upper ; their outline has a gentle 

 convexity. The nostrils are of moderate size ; very short ; rather obliq^uely 

 placed, presenting upwards and forwards ; and the emargination of the cul- 

 minicorn, to allow of their protrusion, is very deep. 



The tail is of moderate length, contained about three times in the wing from, 

 the carpal joint ; is nearly square, the feathers having but a slight graduation, 

 and all being broad to their very tips. (The tail of brachyura is contained 

 about 3^ times in the wing.) 



The tarsus is less than the middle toe without its claw, about equal to the 

 inner without its claw ; slender, moderately compressed. The outer toe is 

 longer than the middle; the tips of the claws fall together. The tip of the 

 inner claw about reaches the base of the miadle one. 



The plumage is dark chocolate brown ; lighter and rather tending to plum- 

 beous gray on the under parts generally. Some of the dorsal feathers, and' 

 most of the wing-coverts, have light grayish brown edges, as if faded ; and a 

 few feathers on the elbow are whitish except terminally. The region all around 

 the bill is hoary white for a limited space; and then shades rapidly into the 

 prevailing color of the head. A streak over and behind the eye and a spot 

 just in front of it are nearly pure black. The primary quills are black, with a 

 plumbeous cast on their inner vanes; their shafts bright yellow to near the 

 tips. The tail is brownish black; paler below; the shafts dull whitish. except 

 apically. The long upper tail coverts which reach within one and a half 

 inches of the end of the tail, are lighter brown than the rest of the upper parts,, 

 having sometimes a slight rufous tint. The feet and webs are black. The 

 bill in the dry state is dark brown, almost black on the nail; its basal por- 

 tions with a hoary glaucescence, its median portions tinged with reddish 

 brown. 



Chord of culmen 400, its curve 4-60, from feathers on side of upper mandi- 

 ble to its tip 3-50; ditto lower mandible 3-20; height of bill at base 1-50; 

 greatest width 1-25. Tarsus 3-70; middle toe and claw 4*50, outer do. 4-50, 

 inner do. 4-00. Wing 19 to 20. Tail about 6-50. 



The preceding paragraphs are descriptive of a most excellent species of Al- 



1866.] 



'Taken from several typical examples from the coaat of California in Mus. Smiths. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



batross, very abundant in the North Pacific. It is readily distinguishable frona 

 the young hrachyura^ to which it assimihites so closely in its plumage, by its 

 bill, which Dr. Schlegel has happily described as " trcs court, quoique gros." 

 The shortness of the bill ; its great width, especially basally where the cul- 

 minicorn is so broad and descends so low as to overlap the latericorn ; the 

 general straightness of its several outlines, and its color ; the relative propor- 

 tions of the wings and tail ; and the proportions and color of the feet, all fur- 

 nish data ample for its separation from hrachyura. So far as now known, the 

 fuliginous plumage above described is its only one ; but should it ever assume 

 a livery like that of Z/rac/tywra, etill the above points of form will readily char- 

 acterize it. The only question then is as to the name to be employed for it. 

 American writers have without exception identified the " nigripes " of Audu- 

 bon with the young hrachyura. 



Unfortunately I cannot find the type specimen of nigripes among the many 

 types of other species of Mr. Audubon now in the Smithsonian Museum. I have 

 before me the types of his " chlororhynchos " and " fusca ; " but " nigripes " 

 has been mislaid. We have therefore onlj his description as a guide ; from 

 which we must determine Avhether he had in view the present spi cips or a 

 young hrachyura^ also found on the Pacific coast of North America. In the 

 latter event nigripes would become a synonym, and a new name be required for 

 the species now under consideration. 



Examining ihe dimensions given by Audubon we find several discrepancies. 

 ■In general they may be stated as too large. The bill is by no means '' five" 

 inches long, — especially along the edge of the under mandible. The tail is six 

 or more instead of "three" inches. The dimension given for the inner toe 

 (1 ifl) is doubtless a typographical error. By carefully measuring Audubon's 

 specimen of " chlororhynchos," I find that he took the curve of the culmen, 

 not its chord. Applying this test to the specimens befce me they measure 

 4'50 to 4-75 inches ; which is suflSciently near the dimensions he states. But 

 five inches along the edge of the under mandible is too great, even for the 

 majority of adult hrachyura; while three inches as the length of tail, is wide of 

 the mark for either species. Eliminating palpable errois however, there is 

 nothing in his description or measurements absolutely incompatible with the 

 present species, though much confirming a suspicion that he may really have 

 bad a young hrachyura in view ; and I therefore think it best, at least until his 

 tjpe can be found, to accept his name, now well established, for this species, 

 especially as the necessity for a new one will thereby be obviated. 



DiOMEDEA GIBBOSA Gould. 



D. gibhosa, Gould, Ann. Mag. N. H. 1844, xiii. p. 361. Id. Introd. B. Aust. 

 1848, p. 115. 



IlahiiaL — " North Pacific." 



Of this species, which is autcptically unknown to me, Mr. Gould says : "It 

 differs from every other that has come under my notice in the peculiar swollen 

 nnd raised form of the upper mandible, which moreover rises high up on the 

 forehead ; " and farther describes it as having the " face, ear coverts, chin, 

 abdomen, upper and under tail-coverts white: the remainder of the plumage 

 very dark brown approaching on the occiput, back of the neck, and wings, to 

 black ; bill yellowish horn color, becoming darker at the tip and at the base ; 

 feet in the specimen dark brown, but doubtless of a bluish gray, inclining to 

 flesh color, in the living bird. Total length 30 inches ; bill 4 ; wing 21 ; tail 7 ; 



tarsi 4." 



This supposed species is by Mr. G. R. Gray placed as a synonym of nigripes 

 Audubon. The dimensions and description in general accord well ; and cer- 

 tain points of difference of coloration may be dependant upon age. It is not 

 impossible that gibbosa \s based upon the fully adult nigripes, in a plumage 

 unknown until described by Mr. Gould. But comparisons of specimens are 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



requisite to settle definitely, this point, upon which at present I have no opin- 

 ion to offer. 



DiOMEDEA MELANOPHRYS Boie. 



Uiomedea melanophrys, Boie, Teram. PI. Col. No. 456. Gould, B. Aust, pi. 43 ; 

 and of authors generally. 



Habitat. — Southern Oceans generally. 



The bill is moderately compressed throughout, least so at the base where 

 it is very high or deep. The culmen is transversely rounded, non-carinated ; 

 its dorsal outline moderately concave, descending from the forehead nearly 

 in a straight line to near the middle of the bill, whence it gradually ascends 

 to the unguis. The latter is very convex and much decurved, though not 

 rising so high as in some other species. The culminicorn basally descends a 

 little on either side to overlap the roots of the nostrils, and to coalesce with 

 the latericorn ; no space of soft skin being interposed. The lateral sulcus fol- 

 lows very nearly the curve of the culmen, to near the unguis, where it rapidly 

 decurves. The commissural edge of the upper mandible is lightly curved. 

 The outline of the rami of the inferior mandible is nearly straight; the inter- 

 raraicorn somewhat protuberant, and extending far into the submental space. 

 The inferior unguicorn is much compressed, not very deep, its apex rather 

 acute, but little attenuated. 



The nostrils are short and small; quite different in this feature from those 

 of exulans or brachyura. They are subconical in general shape ; being consid- 

 erably dilated anteriorly, and basally narrowicg to a point; their orifices con- 

 siderably dilated, with thin margins ; suboval in shape, looking upwards and 

 forwards. This description of nostril is applicable to the other species of this 

 subdivision of the genus. 



The ft-ontal feathers embrace the base of the bill in a nearly straight line ; 

 having a slight forward obliquity, however, as they descend on the sides of 

 the upper mandible. On the culmen a very slightly reentrant curve (not angle) 

 is formed. On the side of the lower mandible the feathers begin slightly pos- 

 terior to their termination on the upper; extending somewhat forward, and 

 with a slight convexity, as they go downwards. 



The bill is yellow, more or less pure and uniform in tint ; in immature birds 

 clouded with brown. Some portion of the unguis is usually dark colored. 

 The soft skin at the extreme base of the bill makes a narrow black line all 

 around. 



White; back plumbeous black, more cinereous anteriorly, where it merges 

 gradually into the white of the neck. Wings and tail black; the latter with 

 a grayish or plumbeous tinge, especially basally. Shafts of quills yellowish, 

 becoming black terminally. Shafts of tail feathers white throughout. A ci- 

 nereous black transocular fascia. " Legs and toes yellowish white, the inter- 

 digital membrane and the joints washed with blue," (Gould.) 



Chord of culmen 4-25 ; height at base 1-75; width 1-00; from feathers on 

 side of lower mandible to its tip 3-75. Tarsus 3-25; middle toe 4-75; outer 

 4-50; inner 4-00. Wing 20-00; tail 9-00 ; its graduation 2-00. 



DiOMBDEA GiLLIANA CoueS, DOV. Sp. 



Belonging to the group of white, black-backed Albatrosses of which melano- 

 phrys is typical, and with the characters of the culminicorn generally as in that 

 species. The shape of the bill, however, most nearly approaches that of cid- 

 minata ; but the characters of the culminicorn posterior to the nostrils are 

 quite diverse from those of the latter species, as follows : — 



Instead of continuing, between the nostrils and the forehead, no broader 

 than it is anterior to them, it there widens, descending on either side to over- 

 lap their roots, and to coalesce by a simple sulcus with the upper edge of the 

 latericorn. There is thus left no space to be filled by soft skin. Tbe dorsal 



1866.1 




182 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



outline of the culminicorn is not so concave as in culminata, ; does not begin 

 to curve downwards so immediately from tlie foreliead ; does not dip so low 

 down at the middle of the bill ; is less flattened and depressed on top, and has 

 a more decidedly rounded transverse outline. The culminicorn has considera- 

 bly more of lateral extension downwards before it reaches the lateral sulcus. 

 The outline of the frontal feathers shows an approach to the character seen 

 \n fuliginosa ; the root of the culmen extendinpf nearly as far up on the fore- 

 head as in cxulans. Still the outline is a simple concavity, not a sharp reent- 

 rant angle. On the sides of ihe lower mandible the feathers start a little pos- 

 terior to their termination on the upper and curve downwards and considera- 

 bly forwards with a decidedly convex outline. 



The base of the culminicorn and latericorn are transversely rugose ; the cor- 

 rugations being mainly j)arallel with the outline of the frontal feathers. 



The lateral sulcus is gently curved from base to unguis; and on its ungual 

 extent is less deflected than in any other species. The interramicorn is promi- 

 nent; and extremely elongated before it finally looses itself in the submental 

 space. 



In the dried specimen the bill presents none of the bright parti-coloration of 

 cul.mi7ia(a, chlororhyjjcha, and cauta ; while its color as well as its shape are 

 sufficiently diverse from those of melanophrys. It is a plain uniform olivaceous 

 brownish throughout; the ungues darl^er, and inclining to black ; the extreme 

 tip of the upper mandible yellowish. That this color is not an evidence of 

 immaturity is evinced by the plumage which is palpably that of a fully adult 

 bird. 



Onord of the culmen 5 00 inches. Height of bill at base 1-75 ; at middle 

 slightly over one inch ; at unguis 1-12. Width at base 1-45. Tarsus 3-00; 

 middle toe 4-T5, outer toe 4-60, inner toe 4*00. Wing about 20 00 ; tail about 

 900. 



The coloration of the plumage is that of melanophrys and the rest of this 

 group, with this exception : The whole under surface of the wings isconcolor 

 with the upper ; whereas in the other species a large area is white. 



In carefully examining the superb series of Albatrosses in tbe Philadelphia 

 Academy, which contains examples of all known species except olivaceirostris 

 and gibbosa, I find a specimen of which the precedir.g paragraphs are descrip- 

 tive. It is unlabelled as to name, locality or donor; and Mr. Cassin has no 

 recollection whence it was obtained. I find it impossible to refer it to any 

 known species ; and am therefore constrained, somewhat reluctantly, to regard 

 it as a previously undescribed one. I am autopically familiar with all ihe re- 

 cognized species except olivaceirostris and gibbosa. The former of these is said 

 to have a bill '* 3 inches and tbree-eiguths long from the gape to the tip, and of 

 a uniform olive green, and in form more slender and elegant," etc. ; with which 

 description the characters of our bird are totally discordant. There is no 

 " peculiar swollen and raised form of the upper mandible " suggestive of the 

 name gibbosa, or rendering its reference to that species admissable. 



From chlororliyficha, culminata, and caiita it is at once distinguished by the 

 color of the bill and especially by the lateral extension downwards of tbe base 

 of the culminicorn, and its coalescence with the latericorn, thus cutting off the 

 naked space which exists behind tbe nostrils of these species. 



Agreeing in this latter respect with melanophrys, the shape no less than the 

 coloration of the bill, as well as the peculiar color of the under surfaces of the 

 wings forbid its reference to that species. Until these features are shown to 

 be accidental, or not incompatible with the variations to which melanophrys is 

 subject, the species must be regarded as a valid one; since there are no others 

 than those above compared, to which it bears any sort of resemblance. 



I trust that this species may prove valid, if for no other reason than that it 

 may continue to bear the name I have fixed to it in pleasant remembrance of 

 years of uninterrupted friendly intercourse ; although Professor Theodore Gill 

 needs no such slight tribute from me, to enhance the enviable reputation to 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



which bis extensive researches iu almost every department of Zoology so 

 justly entitle him. 



Djomedea cauta Gould. 

 Diomedea cauta, Gould, P. Z. S. viii. p. 177. Id. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xiii. 

 1844, p. 3G0. Id. B. Aust. pi. 40. Gray, Gen. Birds, (plate of bill), 

 and of authors. 



Habitat. — Prom the south coast of Van Diemen's Land. 



A beautiful species having the colors of plumage of the meAanophrys gronp ; 

 readily distinguishable from all other species by the following peculiarities in 

 the shape and color of the bill, and outline of this frontal feaihers. 



The frontal feathers lie in a straight or slightly convex outline across the 

 base of the culmen, and then descend perp-ndiculurly to the commissure ; 

 forming a slight reeentrant angle on each side of the base of the culminicorn. 

 From exactly opposite their termination on the commissural edge of the upper 

 mandible those on the lower start, and descend in a straight line with a 

 Blight forward obliquity, forming a very obtuse angle with those on the upper 

 mandible. 



The dorsal outline of the culmen descends from the forehead with a gentle 

 curve, to rise again on the unguis, but not so high as at the forehead. The 

 point of greatest concavity is opposite the middle of the bill. Basally the 

 culminicorn agrees with that of culminata and chlororhyncha, and- differs from 

 melanophrys, in not widening behind the noti'ils, nor descending to overlap 

 their bases and meet the upper edge of tiie latericorn ; a narro.v sub- 

 rectangular space thus left being covered only with soft skin. 



The latericorn is very broad throughout as coroptired with the culminicorn ; 

 i. e., the lateral sulcus is placed high up. The latericorn is exceedin<2ly deep 

 at its base, running high up towards the sides of the ba^e of the culminicorn, 

 and, in consequence of the strong upward inflection of the commissure 

 towards its base, the sides of the under miindible are also very deep basally, 

 and run high up to form an acute angle with the feathers at the commissure. 



The nostrils present no discrepancies from other species of this group. 



"Bill light vinous gray or bluish horn color, except on the culmen where 

 it is more yellow, particularly at the base; the upper mandible is surrounded 

 at the base by a narrow belt of black, which also extends on each side of the 

 culmen to the nostrils ; base of lower mandible surrounded by a belt of rich 

 orange, which extends to the corners of the mouth." (G )uld.) 



Chord of culmen 4-75; height at b ise 1-9'J ; width 1-25; height at unguis 

 1*25; from feathers on lower mandible to the tip of it-i unguis 3-75. Tarsus 

 3-25 ; middle toe 5-00 ; outer toe 4-75 ; inner 4-25 ; wing 2-2-00 ; tail 10-00. 



The plumage is th it of mslanophrj/s even to the trausocular dark fascia ; but 

 this in the specimen before ma extends quite to the bill, which is not the case 

 in the numerous specitnens of melanophrys examined. 



A suffusion of the head and neck with pearly gray is doubtless indie itive 

 of immaturity, as is the cage with other species. 



This bird is superbly figured in Mr. Gould's and Mr. Gray's plates cited 

 above. The latter is an exceedingly accurate delineation of the bill. 



Diomedea culminata Gould. 



Diomedea chlororhynchos, of Audubon's Works ; witness the type specimen it- 

 self. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. Birds, N. A., 1858, p. 822. (Excl. syn.) 

 Diomeiea culminata, Gould, Ann. & Mag. N. H. 1844, xiii. p. 3«1. Id. B. Aust. 

 vii. pi. 41. Gray, Gen. Bds., 1849, pi. 179. 

 This species in color of plumage is quite identical with chlororhyncha,^ and 

 the bill, in its general characteristics of shape, most resembles that of the 

 latter species. But the bird is much larger, stouter and heavier, as will be 

 seen by comparing the dimensions given. The bill in general terms may be 

 stated to be heavier and stronger, though not longer than that chlororhyncha ; 



1866.1 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



much less compressed ; deeper at the middle, notwithstanding that the con- 

 rnvity of the cuhnen is much greater; and with other well-marked peculiar- 

 ities, as follows : — 



The dorsal outline is exceedingly concave, dipping down rapidly from the 

 forehead, and then again being much elevated on the ungual portion. The 

 culininicorn is broad, flattened, depressed, with no trace of carination. Its 

 colored base, instead of being acutely pointed, (as in chlororhj/ncha,) con- 

 tinues of a uniform width past the nostrils to the feathers, where it is broadly 

 rounded with a gentle convexity. There exists posterior to the nostrils a 

 naked space of soft skin ; but this is trapezoidal, not trFangular in shape, in 

 consequ^^nce of the difi'ereut shape of the base of the culminicorn, just 

 described. 



The lateral sulcus is nearly straight to the unguis, where it is greatly 

 deflected. It runs high up along the bill ; or rather the dorsal outline of the 

 culmen dips, towards the middle of the bill, so far down, that it almost lies 

 on a level with this sulcus. The culminicorn is thus allowed scarcely any- 

 thing of a lateral aspect ia the middle portion of its extent. The latericorn, 

 as a consequence, is very deep throughout, and its commissural outline is 

 decidedly less curved. The two ungues are stout, deep and short ; with con- 

 siderable more convexity of outline, and less elongation and decurvation of 

 their apices than is seen in chlororhyncha. 



The dorsal outline of the inferior mandibular rami is quite straight. The 

 interraniicorn is prominent, but not so long as in chlororhyncha. 



The outline of the feathers is almost exactly as in melanophrys ; i. e., they 

 lie over the base of the culmen iu nearly a straight line, or with a slight con- 

 cavity ; and thence extend nearly straight down the sides of the bill. There 

 is no trace of the reentrant angles at the sides of the base of the culminicorn 

 seen in chlororhyncha. The feathers on the lower mandible have the same out- 

 line as i\\0SQ of melanophrys or chlororhyncha. 



The colors of the bill are quite different from those of any other species, 

 though coming nearest to chlororhyncha. The culminicorn is clear light yel- 

 low ; (not bright orange ;) and the edges of the inferior mandibular rami for 

 three fourths their extent are also yellow. There is no yellow line along the 

 sides of the base of the lower mandible at its junction with the feathers. The 

 rest of the bill is black. *' In its youthful state the head and neck are dark 

 gray, and the bill is of an almost uniform brownish black, with only an indica- 

 tion of the lighter color of the culmen." (Gould.) 



The plumage is quite the same as that of chlororhyncha. The color of the 

 back is darkest posteriorly, being anteriorly more plumbeous, and shading 

 into the grayish pearl which washes the neck and head of the majority of 

 specimens. Usually the feathers about the eyes are more or less dark-colored. 



in young birds the whole head and neck is clouded with plumbeous gray ; 

 and the transocular fascia is more conspicuous. 



Bill (chord of culmen) 4-50; height at base 1-75 ; at middle 1-10, at unguis 

 1-25 ; width at base 1-20. Tarsus 3-25 ; middle toe 5-00, outer toe 4-75, inner 

 toe 4-25. Wing 21-00. Tail 8 to 9. 



I have before me Audubon's type of the ^^ chlororhynchos'^ of his works. It 

 is an example of culminata Gould ; and was doubtless procured elsewhere 

 than " not far from the Columbia River," as falsely stated. This specimen 

 (No. 2726 of the Smithsonian Register) is also described by Mr. Lawrence, 

 1. c, under the same name. 



I have a distinct impression of having seen, in some old work, a plate of 

 this species (as evidenced by the yellow along the ramus of the under man- 

 dible inUeid of at its feathered base) under the name of ^^ chlororhynchos ;^' 

 but I cannot now call to mind the reference. 



DiOMEDEA CHLORORHYNCHA Gmeliu. 



Diomedea chlororhyncha^ Gm. i. 1788, p. 568. Lath. Syn. v. p. 309, pi. 94. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Lath. lad. Ora. ii. 1790, p. 790. Temm. PI. Col. 468. Gould, B. Aust. 

 pi. 42, and of authors generally ; but not of Audubon and Lawrence. 

 Diomcdea (Thalassarche) chlororhi/ncha, Bp. C. A. ii. 1855, p. 

 ^' Diomedea chri/sostoma, Forst. Ed. Licht, 1844, p. 24. " IJ. ic. ined. 100, 101," 



fide Gray. 

 ^^ Diomedea profuga, Banks, ic. ined. t. 27,'' fide Gray. 

 " Diomedea presaga^ Brandt," fide Lawrence. 



Hahiiat. — Cape of Good Hope, and theuce to Van Diemen's Land. Aus- 

 tralian and South Pacific Oceans generally. 



Tae bill is compressed in its whole extent more than .in any other species 

 except fuliginosa ; and although somewhat stouter ai the base, it is there very 

 high as compared with its width. Its dorsal outline is very concave, descend- 

 ing rapidly from a point a little anterior to the extreme base of the bill, to 

 about the middle; and not rising again very high on the unguis. Although 

 the culminicorn is narrow and with co'npressed sides, it is not carinated along 

 it.s dorsal lin"i. It has a peculiar terminition basally, quite unique in the genus, 

 which single character separates it trenchantly from any other Albatross. The 

 culminicora does not (as in exulans, melanophrys, etc.,) spread downwards and 

 outwards behind the nostrils to overlap their bases, but terminates by rapidly 

 narrowing to an acute angle on the median line of the bill. Its hard, brightly 

 colored, pointed base does not quite reach to the feathers. There is thus left, 

 between the base of the culmitiicora and the upper edge of the latericorn, a 

 somewhat triangular space of softish integument, not brightly colored ; and 

 corrugated in the dry state. 



The lateral sulcus on the upper mandible does not extend further towards 

 the base of the bill than the nostrils : the soft skin just spoken of taking its 

 place thence to the feathers. Beginning then with the nostrils, it has a slight 

 downward convexity as far as the unguis ; thence it is greatly deflected. As 

 usual, a slight ridge lies in this sulcus for its whole length. The commissural 

 edge of the upper mandible is strongly curved, its convexity looking down- 

 wards. The dorsal outline of the inferior mandibular rami is straight or very 

 slightly concave. The interramicorn is thin, not very prominent, but pro- 

 longed far hi tng the chin before it merges into soft skin. 



The two ungues, taken together, are characterized by their slight compara- 

 tive depth and degree of convexity, and their extreme compression and 

 elongation ; and by the acuteness and decurvation of their apices. 



The nostrils are exactly as described under melanophrys. 



The frontal feathers are peculiar in outline. They lie straight across the 

 base of the culmen, or even have a slight convexity, as far as the upper corner 

 of the base of the latericorn. Thence they descend the side of the bill, with a 

 slightly convex outline, and some little obliquity forwards ; forming more de- 

 cidedly rtentrant angles at the su[)erior basal corners of the latericorns than is 

 found iu any other species. On the side of the lower mandible, beginning at a 

 point slightly posterior to their termination on the upper mandible, they de- 

 scend with an outline parallel to that of those on the upper mandible. 



Chord of culmen 4 50 ; height of bill at base 1-50, at unguis 1-00; width 

 at base 1-00. Tarsus 2-75; middle toe 4-25; outer toe 4-00; inner toe 375. 

 Wing about 19-00. Tail 7-00. 



White ; including rump, upper tail coverts and under surfaces of the wings ; 

 back and wings ashy brown, the latter darkest. Primary shaf's light brown 

 basally, black apically. Tail grayish or plumbeous black, lightest basally ; 

 its shafts chiefly white. Some part of the head and neck in the majority of 

 specimens is clouded with pearly gray. There is more or less of a grayish 

 plumbeous transoctilar fascia, as in melanophrys. The culminicorn is bright 

 orange yellow ; and a narrow line of the same color lies along the sides of the 

 base of the uridtr mandible. The rest of the bill is blackish ; there being no 

 bright color along the dorsal outline of the inferior mandibular rami, as seen 

 in culmi 



1866.] 




186 rROOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Some mnlapplications of the name of this species to culminala Gould, are 

 noticed under the liead of the latter. I quote the names ^^profaga Banks" and 

 ** presaga Brandt " respectively on the authority of iMr. Gray and Mr. Lawrence, 

 not having an opportunity of verifying these references. 



DiOMKDEA OLIVACEIROSTRIS Gould. 



Diomedca oh'vaceorhi/ncha, Gould, Ann, Mag. N. 11. 1844, xiii. p. 3G1. LI Introd, 



B. Aust, p. 115. 

 Diomedea olivaccirostris. Bonaparte, 0. A. 1855, p. 185, correcting a hybrid name. 



This species is based upon a bill only, which was in possession of Sir Wm. 

 Jardine, and supposed to come from the China seas. Mr. Gould states that it 

 "is three inches and three-eighths long from the gape to the tip, of a uniform 

 olive green, and in form more slender and elegant th m that of the other mem- 

 bers of the genus," which comprises the sum total of our knowledge concern- 

 ing the species. 



PiiffiBETRiA PCLiGiNosA (Gm.) Reich. 

 Diomedea fuUginosa, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. pt. ii. p. 568. Lath. Ind. Orn. ii, 



1790, p. 791. Temminck. PI. Col. 469. And of anthors generally. 

 Diomedea (Phoebeiria) fulif/inosa, Bonap. Consp. Av., ii. 1855, p. 

 Diomedea spadicca^ Lesson, Man. ii. 1828, p. 391 ; description. Not of Lath. 

 Diomedea palpehrata, P'orster, " ic. ined. No. 102." Id. Ed. Licht, 1844. p. 

 Diomedea antarctica^ Banks, " ic. ined. No. 26." 

 Diom.edea fusca of Audubon's works. 



Habitat. Southern oceans at large. 



The bill of this species is remarkable in its extreme compression ; its basal 

 outline ; and the presence of a sulcus on the lower mandible. 



The feathers retreat rapidly, with a gentle curve, from their point of great- 

 est development on the commissural edge of the upper mandible to form an ex- 

 ceedingly acute reentrant angle on the forehead. Thoseon the side ofthelower 

 mandible extend in an exceedingly acute salient angle, to a point much beyond 

 the termination of the nostrils ; their upper outline a trifle oblique to the com- 

 missural edge of the lower mandible ; their under more decidedly oblique to 

 the outline of the inferior mandibular rami. 



The culminicorn is much compressed, with but slightly convex sides, and 

 a decidedly carinated ridge. The dorsal outline forms a gentle and continu- 

 ous curve from the very feathers to the base of the unguis. The latter hardly 

 rises above the level of the culmen proper: is rather the reverse of robust ; 

 its top moderately decurved, and only slightly overhanging the lower. The 

 curve of the superior lateral sulcus is intermediate lietween ezulans and 

 brachyura. The commissure forms a gentle and continuous curve from the 

 base of the unguis. 



The commissural edge of the under mandible corresponds to that of the 

 upper. The dorsal outline of the rami is perfectly straight. The inferior 

 unguicorn is convex and protuberant, but extends only a short distance into 

 the mental space. 



The median longitudinal lateral sulcus of the lower mandible terminates 

 abruptly at the unguis. Basally it divaricates to receive the salient feathers ; 

 the upper crus being the best marked, and forming the real continuation of 

 the sulcus. This groove is sometimes concolor with the bill ; more often it 

 is brightly colored, being yellow or pinkish. 



The nostrils are peculiar in their very small calibre, perhaps less than that 

 of any other species. They are almost buried between the culminal and late- 

 ral elements of the bill, the two meeting posterior to the nares. The orifice 

 is subcircular, presenting forwards and upwards with no lateral aspect. 



The graduation of the lateral rectrices is enhanced in producing a cuneate 

 tail, by the elongation of the median pair which project beyond the next 

 ones, and are narrowly accuminate. The tips of the lateral feathers are 

 rounded. 



[Maj, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 187 



The bill is black, except its sulcus. The feet are flesh colored or dull 

 whitish, becoming yellowish in the dried state. The edges of the eyelids are 

 pure white except just at the anterior canthus. 



The perfectly and uniformly fuliginous color (darkest about the face and on 

 the wings and tail) which is the ordinary plumage, sometimes gives way to a 

 much lighter, clearer and more cinereous color. Examples of this coloration, 

 doubtless due to age, are in the Philadelphia Academy and Smithsonian In- 

 stitution. The most extreme case I have met with is as follows : Neck all 

 around, upper part of back and whole under parts nebulated with ashy or 

 grayish white. Lower part of back, wing-coverts, scapulars, etc., light 

 plumbeous gray. Wings and tail ashy or plumbeous blackish, lightest on their 

 inner webs, their shafts chiefly whitish. On the face, crown and sides of 

 the head the fuliginous holds, deepest in tint immediately around the bill. 

 The nape and hind neck, and some of the wing coverts show traces of ferru- 

 gineous. 



Chord of culmen 4 to 4-50, height of bill at base 1-50, at unguis I'OO, width 

 at base -75. From feathers on commissure to tip 3-50, from feathers on lower 

 mandible 2.50. Tarsus about 300 ; middle toe and claw 4-75, outer 4-50, inner 

 4-00. Wing 21-00, tail -10, its graduation 3-50 to 4 50. 



I have examined the type of Dlomedea fmca And. now in the Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



The following is a synopsis of the genera and species of the Diomedeinse. 



Family PROCELLARIIDJE. 



Sub-family DIOMEDEIN.E. 



Chs. The tubular nostril? are separated, and placed on either side of the 



culmen. The hallux is absent. The exterior toes have a wide membranous 



fringe. 



Genus I. Diomedea. Bill stout, or moderately compressed. No sulcus on 

 lower mandible. Tail short or moderate, more or less rounded. Nostrils 

 large. 



A. Bill very broad. Tail short ; contained 

 nearly, quite, or more than three times in 



the wing Diomedea et Phmbastria Reich. 



1. D. EXULANS L. (spadicea Gm. Lath, (juv.) alhatrus Pall. Forst., adusta Tsch. 

 Bill 7 inches. Frontal feathers forming a deep concavity on the culmen ; 

 those on side of lower mandible extending to a point opposite middle of nos- 

 trils, with an exceedingly convex outline. 



2. D. BRACHYURA Tcmm. {spadicea var. B. Lath, (juv.) epomophora Less. 

 Tsch. Bp.) Bill 5 to 6 inches. Frontal feathers embracing the bill nearly in 

 a straight line : those on side of lower mandible extending hardly further than 

 on upper, with a barely convex outline. 



[2a? D. LEPTORHYNCHA Coucs. Doubtfully based upon a skull differing 

 somewhat in proportions from that of brachyura. See antea.] 



3. D. NiGRiPES Aud. {brachyura juv. Cass. Lawr.) Bill 4 inches ; width at 

 base 1-25 ; height 1-50 ; very robust for its length. Frontal outline nearly as 

 in brachyura. 



?4. D. GiBBOSA Gould. "With a peculiar swollen and raised form of the 

 upper mandible, which moreover rises high up on the forehead. Bill 4." 

 (Probably = nigripes Aud.) 



B. Bill compressed. Tail elongated, rounded, nearly 

 half as long as the wing from the carpal joint. 

 White, with black back and wings. A transocular 



fascia [Thalassarche'RQXQYi.) 



1866.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



<i. The culminicorn widens and descends on eitber side behind the nos- 

 trils to coalesce with the latericorn. 



5. D. Melanophrys Boie. Temm. Frontal feathers with a slight reentrant 

 curve on the culmen. Chord of culraen 4-25. Width of bill at base 1-00 ; 

 height 1-75. Bill uniform light yellow. 



6. D. GiLLiANA Cones. Frontal feathers with a decided reentrant curve on 

 the culnicn (nearly as great as in exulans.) Chord of culmen 5 00 ; width of 

 bill at base 1-45 ; height 1-75. Bill uniform dark brown. (Essential charac- 

 teristics of culminicorn of melanophrys ; general shape of bill of culminata.) 



b. The culminicorn does not widen and descend to coalesce with the 

 latericorn posterior to the nostrils, but continues narrow to the frontal 

 feathers. 



7. D. CAUTA Gould. Chord of culraen 4-75. Frontal feathers with a slightly 

 convex outline across the culmen : thence descending in a nearly straight 

 line. Bill gray or bluish brown ; the culmen yellowish ; a narrow belt of black 

 around base of upper mandible ; one of orange around base of lower, the lat- 

 ter extending to the angle of the mouth. 



8. D. CDLMiNATA Gould. {clilororhyncha And. Lawr. nee. Gm.) Base of 

 culminicorn broad and rounded. Frontal feathers with a slightly concave 

 outline across culmen. Chord of culmen 4-50. Bill black ; culmen and lower 

 edges of inferior mandibular rami bright yellow. 



9. D. CHLORORHYNCHA Gui. (uec. Aud. Lawr. chrysostoma Forst. '■^ profuga 

 Banks ;" ^^ presaga Brandt.") Base of culminicorn tapering to an acute angle. 

 Frontal feathers straight or with slight convexity across culmen : thence 

 downwards with some forward obliquity, and slight convexity of outline, 

 forming a sharp reentrant angle at upper corner of base of latericorn. Chord 

 of culmen 4-50. Bill black. Culmen, and a narrow perpendicular line along 

 the sides of the base of the under mandible, bright yellow. 



10. D. OLiVACEiROSTRis Gould. Bill slender, uniform olive green, three and 

 three-eighths long from gape to tip. 



Genus II. Phcebbtria Reich. Bill excessively compressed. A sulcus on 

 sides of lower mandible. Feathers forming a deep reentrant angle on cul- 

 men ; an acute salient on one side of lower mandible. Nostrils very 

 narrow. Tail elongated, cuneate. 



11. P. puliginosa Reich, ex Diomedea fuliginosa Gm. (antarciica Banks ] pal- 

 pebrata Forst.; fusca Aud.) Height of bill at base 150, width -75. The cul- 

 men is carinated for its basal half. 



Sub-family HALODROMIN^. 



Some general remarks upon the fundamental characters of this interesting 

 group have already been given at the head of the present article. We may 

 at once proceed to the consideration of the single genus by which it is repre- 

 sented. 



Genus PELECANOIDES Lac^p. 



Frocellaria sp. Gmelin et auct. aliq. 



Felecanoides, Lacdpfede, Mem. de I'lnst. 1800-1, p. 517. Typus Froc. urinatrix Gm. 

 Haladroma^ Illiger, Prodromus, 1811, p. 273. Typus idem. 

 Onocralus, Rafinesque, 1815 ; fide Bon. 



Fuffinuria, Lesson, Man. 1828, ii, p. 392 : Id. Traits Ornith. 1831, p. 614. Ty- 

 pus F. Garnoti Less. 

 Concerning these numerous names which have been proposed for this genus 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



the preponderance of authority is in favor of the adoption of that of Illiger. 

 I can, however, discern no cause why Lac^pede's name should be superseded. 

 The reasons given by Illiger, in proposing Haladroma^ and by Lesson in 

 founding Puffinuria^ certainly seem invalid. To G. R. Gray is, I believe, due 

 the credit of restoring the rightful appellation of Lac^pede. 



The type which represents the genus, although so curiously anomalous, is 

 so well known, that a detailed description would be out of place here. Only 

 a few of its more salient points need be noticed. 



The perfectly vertical nostrils are surrounded by an elevated wall, whose 

 contour, in consequence of a slight emargination posteriorly, and a corres- 

 ponding protuberance anteriorly, on the median line, is somewhat cordiform. 

 The wall has considerable thickness basally ; but much bevelling superiorly 

 gives it an extremely thin edge. The internasal septum is moderately thick ; 

 and from either side a process projects transversely into the nasal orifice. In 

 shape each nostril is suboval ; being somewhat elongated anteriorly, and a 

 straightening of its inner border being produced by their mutual appo- 

 sition. 



The dertrum or unguis is long, reaching quite to the nostrils ; and, for this 

 family, is only moderately uncinated. Except at its extreme base it is dis- 

 tinctly carinated, and its sides are much compressed. 



The myxa is unusually small and narrow, with a very acute tip, and ex- 

 tremely concave gonys. The sulci separating the myxotheca from the rest of 

 the mandible, and the lateral one on the gnathidia are strongly marked. 



The unusual amount of divarication of the concavo-convex gnathidia, which 

 causes so wide a submentum, is, in the upper mandible, accompanied by a 

 corresponding dilation of the lateral elements ; which latter are also turgid 

 and inflated. 



The tarsus is excessively compressed, and at the same time very deep 

 antero-posteriorly ; giving to its transverse section a narrowly elliptical shape, 

 like that which obtains in the Colymhidce. It is reticulated as in the Frocel- 

 laridse, and also the majority of the AlcidcB, though Mtrgulus has anteriorly 

 transverse imbricated scales. The proportions of the anterior toes are as in 

 the other Procellariidce. 



In the wings and tail the urinatorial aspect is most decidedly marked. 

 The very short wings, with their stiff, falcate, subacuminate primaries hardly 

 reach to the end of the exceedingly abbreviated tail. 



The plumage is essentially diverse from that of any other Procellaridian, in 

 its compact imbrication, and oily glossiness, which comes nearest to that of 

 the Loons; and is eminently adapted to resist the action of the water in 

 which the habits of this species cause them so constantly to be submerged. 



Concerning the number of species +0 be enumerated authors are greatly at 

 variance. To a comparatively recent date but a single one was supposed to ex- 

 ist. M. Temminck, in figuring the type of MM. Quoy and Gaimard's P. 

 Berardiij'is of opinion that both urinatrix and Garnoti should be referred to it. 

 M. Lesson, after describing Puffinuria Garnoti in 1826, doubtfully refers it to 

 Froc. urinatrix Gm.* Prince Bonaparte unites Garnoti and urinatrix^ and con- 

 siders Derardii as distinct. Mr. G. R. Gray, and more recently, Dr. H. Schle- 

 gel, agree in regarding all three of the supposed species as valid. A sufficient 

 amount of material is not at my disposal to settle these doubtful points. In 

 a considerable number of specimens from various localities I can see what 

 has been called P. Berardi, differing in some respects from the ordinary type : 

 but have failed to detect tangible differences indicating three species. Very 

 possibly, however, none of the specimens before me indicate the true urinatrix, 

 as distinguished from Garnoti. 



The three supposed species are based entirely upon size : a varying degree 

 of length or robustness of bill : and coloration of the feet. Some specimens 



1866] 



♦ Traite d'Ornith. 1831, p. 720, No. 144. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



before me are larger than is indicated by Dr. Schlegel as characteristic of 

 Oarnoti : while the feet are colored as in the smallest species, Berardii. A 

 considerable amount of variation is found in examples of undoubtedly the 

 same species ; so that perhaps we might without great violence consider the 

 ditlcrent species as extremes of a single very variable type. 



I am mainly indebted to Dr. Schlegel's excellent article for characters 

 whereby to tabulate the supposed species with their synonyms. This author 

 has had before him examples which he has considered as indicative of three 

 species : and for the present I rely upon his judgment. 



1. Pblecanoides Gaunoti Gray ex Lesson. 



Puffinuria Garnoti, Lesson, Voy. de la Coq. i. part ii. 182G, pi. 46, — (Bill and 

 feet black. Length 8|; extent IG; bill 12-12ths; wing 5 ; feet and 

 tail each l^.)—ld. Man. Orn. 1828, ii. p. 394.— Id. Traite d'Orn. 1831, 

 p. 730. (Queries urinatriz Gra. as syn.) 

 Pelccanoides Garnoti^ Gray, Gen. Birds, iii. 1849, p. 646. 

 Ilaladroma Garnoti, tichlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, p. 37. 

 Haladroma urinatriz, Bonaparte, 0. A. 1856, ii. p. 206. (Excl. syn. Nee Gm. 

 fide Schlegel, who has examined Bonaparte's types.) 

 Habitat. — West Coast of South America. 



Gh. Largest ; 8 to 8;| in length. Bill slender and elongated ; black ; along 

 culmen -75 ; height at end of nasal case -25. Width near the base -33. Tar- 

 sus blackish, 13 to 14 lines long; middle toe about one inch. 



2. Pelecanoides drinatrix Lacep. ex Gm. 



Procellaria urinatriz, Gmelin, S. N. 1788, i. part ii. p. 560, and of authors ; not 



JIal. urin. of Bp. 

 Pelecanoides urinatriz, Lacep. et Guv. Gray, Gen. Birds, iii. 1849, p. 646. 

 Haladroma urinatriz, Illiger, Prod. 1811, p. 274. Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. 



Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 37. 

 Paffinuria urinatriz, Gould, B. Aust. pi. 60. 

 Haladroma Berardii, Bonap. C. A. 1856, ii. p. 206; Excl. syn. (fide Schlegel; 



from examination of Bp's types.) 

 Procellaria tridactyla, Forst. Descr. Anim, Ed. Licht. 1844, p. 1849. 

 Habitat. — Australian Seas. 



Ghs. Of medium size ; feet bluish ; bill robust. Wing 4-50; tail 1-40. Bill 

 •66 ; its height or width -33 ; tarsus one inch. Middle toe eleven lines. 



3. Pelecanoides Berardii Q. and G. 



Pelecanoides Berardii, Quoy and Gaim. Voy. Uranie, pi. 37. Temminck, PI. 



Col. No. 517. Gray, Gen. Birds, 1849, iii. p. 646. 

 Haladroma Berardii, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 38; not of 

 Bonaparte. 



Habitat. — Southern Oceans. 



Ghs. Smallest; bill short, intermediate in robustness between that of the 

 two foregoing; feet light colored, their membranes black. Length 7 inches ; 

 wing 4-40; tail 1-50. Bill -55, its height or width about -30. Tarsus -80 ; 

 middle toe -90. 



It will be observed that the differences between the size of the smallest and 

 largest of these supposed species is not great; that an intermediate form oc- 

 curs between the two extremes ; that each is liable to considerable variations 

 in size; and that the colors of the plumage of all three are identical. 



Recapitulation. 

 The following is a summary of the genera and species of Procellariida 

 treated of in the series of papers of which the present article is conclusive. 

 The numbers in the third column are those of species which I have recog- 

 nized, but which seem to require confirmation before their claims to validity 

 can be considered as fully established. It will be seen that more or less of 

 doubt attaches to 17 out of the 92 described. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



191 



Note. The following supposed species are not given in the body of my 

 papers ; and I only know of them by the descriptions. 



Puffinus Rollandii Quoy and Gaimard, in Freynete, Voy. Autour du Monde ; 

 and Zool. Journ. iii. p. 271. 



Procellaria lugubris^ Tschudi, Cab. Journ. f. Ornith. 1856, iv, p. 185, (not of 

 batterer.) "The whole body is dark brown ; the back somewhat deeper col- 

 ored than the belly ; the tail wholly black ; the inner side of the wing darker 

 than the outer. Bill and feet reddish ; iris ashy gray. Surpasses in size ca- 

 pevsis ; also compressed in form. The description of P. antarctica is too in- 

 accurate to say with certainty if it be the species here described. Between 

 46° and 36°." {Tschudi^ ut supra.) It is impossible to say from the descrip- 

 tion what species of Nectris or Pterodroma this is. 



Procellario. maculata, loc. cit. "Island of Juan Fernandez; 33° S. Head, 

 breast and belly wholly white ; the back bluish-white with darker spots, the 

 wings gray with bluish spots, the tips of the four longest primaries wholly 

 black. Tail fan-shaped, grayish blue. Bill and feet deep orange yellow. Iris 

 dark brown. About the size of the preceding species." Evidently an JEstre- 

 Idta ; but the description applies to no species with which I am acquainted. 

 It comes nearest to alba Lath, or Lessonii Garnot. 



Procellaria bicolo?^^ oip. cit. p. 187. "Bill and feet black; neck, back, and 

 lesser wing coverts deep blackish gray, wing feathers and tail somewhat 

 lighter. Head and throat wholly black; belly pure white." Doubtless a 

 young JEstrelata ; but of what species the description gives no hint. 



SUPPLEMENT. 



Some few additions to, and corrections of my previous papers, which sub- 

 sequent investigation has brought to my knowledge, may with propriety be 

 inserted here. 



Procellariese. 

 P. 79, line 25, for "size " read "length." IT. microsoma is rather smaller 

 than P. pelfigica in actual size of body, though the length of wings and tail is 

 not less. This explains an apparent descrepancy in my statements on p. 79 

 and p. 90. 



would now unite ThieUus and Nectris with Puffinus, leaving but three genera to be recog- 



t These six are Bulweria MacgilUvragi and Procellaria Parkinsoni,Gx9,y; P. neglecta and P. 

 incerta Schl.; ^strelata grisea and JkJ. gavia of my paper. 



X Prion brevirostris Gould. 



J Which are P. tethys Bp., P. higubris batterer, P. mditensis Schembri; Thalassidroma Segethi 

 Ph. and Ldbk. ; Fi egetta Lawrencii Bp. 



? /*, gericcus Less. 



% D gibhosa Gould, which may be nigripes Aud., and my D. hptorhyncha. 



••As just stated, the three recognized specieii of Pelecanoides require additional evidence to 

 prove conclusively that they are not merely the extremes of a single variable species. 



1866.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OP TOE ACADEMY OP 



Pp. 80, 81, 90. There can be no doubt of the propriety of referring P. lur/u- 

 hris Nattcrer, and P. melitensis Schembri, to pelagica L. Proc. tclhys Bp., also 

 seems hardly distinct. 



Pp. 81, UO. Thalassidroma fasciolata Tschudi has been recognized by other 

 writers as valid. 



Pp. 84, 01. Oceanites segethi ex Ph. et Ldbk. is undoubtedly a synonym of 

 0. gracilis ex Elliot, as intimated in my paper. 



Pp. 87, 91. Fregetta Lawrencii Bp. is probably a synonym of grallaria Bp. 

 ex Vieill. as Mr. Lawrence himself originally believed. The point cannot now, 

 however, be positively determined, as the specimen is lost. 



Pp. 88. 91. Bonaparte's identification of Linnaeus' Proc.fregata^ which I fol- 

 lowed, is by no means proven; and in view of the uncertainty attaching to 

 Linnaeus' diagnosis (which may refer to some species of the genus Fregctla) it 

 may be as well to take our specific name from Latham's unequivocal indica- 

 tion of P. marina; calling the species Pelagodroma marina after Reichenbach. 



Puffinese. 



Pp. 122, 142, 143. Genera " Thiellus " and " Nectris." The points in which 

 these groups differ from Puffinus proper, arc exceedingly trivial, as I state in 

 ray paper. I am now indisposed to retain them, even on the plea of utility, 

 and would accordingly unite all their species under Puffmus. 



Pp. 119, 141. Adamastor Bp. According to Mr. G. R. Gray the type 

 of the genus Priofinus of Hombron and Jacquinot is based upon the bird Bo- 

 naparte calls Adam, t.ijpus, and it has priority over Bonaparte's designation. 

 If this be the case the three species should stand as Priof. cinereus, Priof. 

 gelidus and Priof. sericeus. 



Pp. 118, 141. Majaqueus Reich. If Proc. Parhinsoni Gray, (Ibis 1864) is a valid 

 species, it may belong to this genus rather than to the fuliginous group of 

 JEatrdata under which I have considered it. Additional data concerning it are 

 greatly to be desired. 



P. 121. Add Daption gelidum Steph. Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. p. 245, to syno- 

 nyms of Adamastor gelidus. 



P. 123. Puffinus fuliginosus. I have received specimens from the Pacific 

 coast of North America which I cannot distinguish from the common Atlantic 

 bird. It is quite different from the species I have named Pvffinus amauriso- 

 ma, p. 124. By a misapprehension of a remark of Dr. Kuhl, I erroneously 

 state thfit fuliginosn Forst., Descr. sp. 18, is a species o? Nectris ; whereas I am 

 now satisfied it is the same as Kuhl's sp. 12, which is the Pterodroma atlantica 

 of Bonaparte. Compare my remarks under ^Flsirelata faliginosa in part iv. of 

 these papers. Kuhl's /wZ«V7mo5a sp. 27, after Banks' tab. 23, is identified by Mr. 

 Gray with pacifica Lath. 



P. 126. N. carneipcs. On the authority of Dr. Schlegel I placed c/7?frfw.?juv. 

 Smith, and ^ama Bp. as synonyms of this species. Mr. Gray considers them 

 as referring to a species of Nectris or rather Puffmus not recognized in my pa- 

 per, viz. : P. trisiis Forst. I am entirely unacquainted with this bird, if it be 

 a valid species. Bonaparte and Schlegel make it the same as tenuirostris 

 Tcmm. 



Pp. 131, 144. A second specimen of Puffinus creatopus has been received 

 from the same locality. 



Pp. 141, 144. Procellaria nugaz Sol. This unpublished specific name should 

 not take precedence over assimilis of Gould. 



Fulmarex. 



Add Fulmarus aniarciicus Steph. Shaw's Gen. Zool. 1825, xiii. p. 236, to the 

 synomyms of Thalassoica glacialoides. 



Add Daption antarcticum op. cit. p. 242, to synonyms of Thalassoica antarc- 

 tica. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Bibliographical Appendix. 



It may be well to give in this connection a synopsis of the works of some 

 of the older authors, as far as they relate to the subject in hand. The earlier 

 authorities to be particularly consulted in a study of the Frocellariidse* are 

 the following : — 



LiNNiEus, Syst. Nat. ed. 10 (1758.) 



In this edition, the first in which species are presented, there are named (p. 

 131) three species ; sc. pelaffica, (type of genus Frocellaria ;) sequinoctialis and 

 capensis. 



LiNN^us, Sysi. Nat. ed. 12, vol. i. (1766.) 



1. Froc. pelagica, p. 212. 



2. Froc. freffata,-p. 212. I followed Bonaparte's authority in referring this 

 name to the species subsequently named marina by Latham ; but there seems 

 to be nothing in the Linnaean diagnosis requiring this identification ; the name 

 being very probably based upon some species of the genus Fregetta as now re- 

 stricted. 



3. Froc. fflacialis, p. 213, = Fulmarus glacialis Leach. 



4. Froc. sequinoctialis, p. 213, = Majaqueus sequinoctialis Reich. 



5. Froc. capensis, p. 213, = Daption capensis Steph. 



6. Froc. puffinus, p. 213,== probably F. anglorum (Ray,) TemTii. Has been 

 identified also with F. Kuhlii Boie, and F. major Fab., and almost every other 

 Atlantic Fvffinus. 



G ME LIN, cd. Linn. Syst. Nat. vol. i. part. ii. (1788.) 



7. Froc. obscura, p. 559, One of the smaller Fuffini, the habitat of which is 

 given as " insula nativitatis Christi." Now universally applied to the common 

 bird of the Atlantic, called obscura by Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. p. 423, in 1817. 



8. Proc. jt?ac?/?ca, p. 560. Not identified with any other known species. A 

 large Fuffinus, from the island of Euopoa. 



9. Froc. coerulea, p. 560, = Halobsena coerulea Bp. 



10. Froc. vittatus, p. 560, = Frionvittata Lacep. 



11. Froc. urinatrix, p. 560, =z= Felecanoides urinatrix Lac^p. 



1. Froc. pelagica, p. 561. Variety B. is probably fictitious. 



2. Froc. fregata, p. 561. Same as that of Linnaeus. 



12. Froc. f areata, p. 561, =z= Oceanodroma furcata Reich. 



13. Froc. fuliginosa, p. 562. Based upon Latham's species of this name,, 

 and not yet identified. A small species, eleven inches long, with a forked 

 tail ; from Otaheite. Generally supposed to be a species of Thalassidroma. 



14. Froc. desolata, p. 562. Now recognized as a valid species of JEstrelata. 



15. Froc. nivea, p. 562, = Fagodroma nivea Bp. 



16. Froc. melanopus, p. 562. Not identifiable, except opinionatively. Evidently 

 some species of jEstrelata. Said to come from North America, which would 

 make it referrible to ^. hsesitata. Description applies in most respects to 

 mollis Gould. 



3. Froc. glacialis, p. 562, = Fulmarus glacialis Leach. The var. B. is the 

 Thalassoica glacialoides (Smith) Reich. 



♦The indications of the Diomedeinm are generally so definite that the consideration of them 

 may be here omitted. 



1866.J 13 




194 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



17. Proc. cinereaj p. 563. A stumbling block, concerning which authors are 

 greatly at variance. Usually employed by European authors as the name of 

 the species 1 describe as Pul/i/ius Ku/ifii Bo'ic ; and applied by American Avriters 

 to /*. vufjor Fab. By Bonaparte identified with his Adammtor typus ( = hvbsi- 

 tata Forst. Gould, Reich, nee Kuhl, Temm. = AdamaMor cinerem of my paper,) 

 in which opinion I entirely concur. According to Mr. Gray, the genus Prio- 

 Jinm Ilomb. et Jacq. is based upon this same bird, and antedates Adamastor of 

 Bonaparte. The proper name of the species in question would then be Prio- 

 Jinus cinereus. 



18. Proc. gigantea, p. 563, = Ossifraga gigantea Reich. 



19. Proc. brasiliana p. 564. Very dubious. May be the same as the pre- 

 ceding species ; or the Gracalus brasilianus, as identified by Bonaparte. 



4. Proc. ifquinoctialis, p. 564, and var. B., = Majaqueus sequinoctialis Reich. 



20. Proc. grisea, p. 564. Unidentifiable. 



21. Proc. gelida, p. 564. I think that this name was based upon the species 

 subsequently n&med flavirostris by Mr. Gould, the proper name of which ap- 

 pears to be Priofinus gelidus. 



22. Proc. alba, p. 565. Evidently a species of JEstrelata, and probably some 

 one of the plumages of JE. Lessoni. 



Latham, Index Ormthologicus, ii. .(1790.) 



Of Dr. Latham's three principal works this is the one usually referred to, 

 as being the only one in which Latin binomial names are used. Most of the 

 species given in this work have exactly the same import as those of Gmelin, 

 and need not therefore be noticed. The following are the chief points re- 

 quiring attention : — 



6. Proc. alba, var. B., p. 822, — "Norfolk Island Petrel." A species subse- 

 quently named Proc. Phillippi by Gray, with which P. mollis Gould is consid- 

 ered as probably synonymous. 



18. Proc. marina^ p. 826. — First definite characterization of the type of the 

 genus PelagodromaiPel. fregata Bp. Pel. marina^ Reich.) 



21. Proc. Forsteri, p. 827, = Proc. vittata Gm. 



23. Proc. pacifica p. 827. Same as that of Gmelin. The name is unidenti- 

 fiable, unless we regard it as expressive of a valid species. By Mr. Gray it is 

 so considered (Cat. Birds Pac. Isl.) and theifollowing cited as synonymous : 

 Neciris fuliginosus (Sol.) Banks, ic. 23. — Proc. fuliginosa Kuhl, sp. 27 ; {humot 

 Kuhl's sp. 12 !) Puff, pacificus Gray, Gen. Birds, p. 647. It is a large Puffinus, 

 22 inches long, with flesh-colored bill and feet; from Euopoa. 



24. Proc. obscura, p. 828, = that of Gmelin. By Mr. Gray this name is con- 

 sidered the same as that of Vieillot, (Nouv. Diet. xxv. p. 423, and Gal. Ois. 

 tab. 301 ;) and is made to include the Australian form (figured by Mr. Gould, 

 pi. 59 of the B. Aust. and named by him assimilis,) which is considered dis- 

 tinct by the majority of writers. 



Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. d^Hist. Nat. xxv. (1817.) 



The article " Petrel " of this work is in general a close copy of Gmelin and 

 Latham. Certain points, however, may be noticed. 

 Proc. pelagica, ip. 416. Mentions under this head the "Petrel 6chasse " of 



Temminck. 

 Proc. grallaria, Vieill. p. 418. First name of the species subsequently named 

 leucogaster by Gould ; unless as is possibly the case fregata of Linnaeus 

 be this species rather than the Pelagodroma marina. 

 JProc. fuUginosa, p. 418. Latham's Otaheite species, whatever that maybe. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Proc. grisea, p. 419. Unidentified. = that of Gm. and Lath. 



Proc. alba, -p. 419. Mentions under this head the "Norfolk Island Petrel," 

 subsequently named P. Phillippii by G. R. Gray. 



Proc.puffinus, p. 421, = Puff, anglorum. Cites PI. Enl. 962. The ^^ Proc. puf- 

 finus var. Lath. PI. EnL No. 39 " may refer to Puffinus Kuhlii Boie. 



Proc. pacifica, p. 422. " Se trouve en Europe " by error for " Euopoa." 



Proc. sequinoxialis, p. 422. Refers as a variety of this species to the " Kurile 

 Petrel " of Latham and Pennant, from Kamtschatca ; a bird now general- 

 ly supposed to be some species of Nectris; which latter identification re- 

 quires confirmation. 



Proc. leucorhoa, Vieill. p. 422. First designation of the Thalassidroma Leachii 

 Temm. 



Proc. obscura, p. 423. Is this the same as Gmelin's species? This reference 

 to Vieillot should rather be cited for the name of the common small At- 

 lantic Puffinus. 



Heinrich Kdhl, Beit. Zool. u. Vergl. Anat. (1820.) 



In this work there is presented a " Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Procellari- 

 den " which is a very important contribution to the bibliography of the 

 family, marking perhaps the first decided advance over the writers of the 

 eighteenth century. The following species are given in this monograph : 



1. Proc.furcata " L." p. 136. = Oceanodroma furcata Reich. 



2. Proc. oceanica " Banks," p. 136. = Thalassidroma Wilsoni (P. pelagica 

 Wils.) of most ornithologists, now Oceanites oceanica mihi. 



3. Proc. marina " Lath." p. 137. = Pelagodroma fregata Bp. and of my 

 paper; Pelag. marina Reich. 



4. Proc. Leachii " Temm." p. 137. = P. leucorrhoa Vieill. = Cymochorea 

 leucorrhoa Coues. 



5. Proc. fregatta " Banks," p. 138. = P. grallaria Vieill. nee Licht, (= leu- 

 cogaster Gould.) 



6. Proc. pelag ina^ p. 139. = P. pelagica Linn. 



Y. Proc. glacialis, p. 139. == Fulmarus glacialis Leach. 



8. Proc. capemis, p. 140. = Daption capensis Steph. 



9. Proc. gigantea, p. 140. = Ossifraga gigantea Reich. 



10. Proc.cequinoctialis^ p. 141. = Majaqueus cdquinoctialis Reich. 



11. Proc. hasitata " Forst." p. 142. But not ofForster. Kuhl's hasitata is 

 the same as that of Temminck, PI. Col. 416, which is an jEstrelata. (jEst. 

 diabolica Bp. = jEst. hcesitata of my paper.) 



12. Proc fuliginosa, p. 142. = fuliginosa Forst. nee auct. = Proc. atlantica 

 Gould. = Pterodroma atlantica Bp. = JEstrelata fuliginosa Mihi. 



13. Proc. desolata, p. 143. = ^strelata desolata Bp. 



14. Proc. turtur, " Banks," p. 143. — I prefer Mr. Gould's identification of 

 this species to that of Dr. Schlegel. See remarks in my paper on Prionese. 



15. Proe. grisea "L." (Gm.) p. 144. — Not of Gm. Lath. Examine Dr. Schle- 

 gel's identification of this species ; which I follow. 



16. Proc. coerulea "Forst." p. 145. The coerulea of Gmelin, which Forster 

 calls '''■ similis.''^ 



17. Proc. urinatrix "Forst." p. 145. The urinatrix of Gm. now PeZecano«</^« 

 urinatriz, which Forster calls Proc. tridatyla. 



18. Proc. nivea, p. 145. = Pagodroma nivea Bp. 



19. Proe. antarctica p. 145. = Thalassoica antaretica. 



20. Proc lugem "Forst." p. 145. Not positively identifiable. Dr. Kuh^ 



1866.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



says that he " thinks it is P, grisea L." which, according to his use of this 

 name, would make it the species described in my paper upon Dr. Schlegel's 

 authority as ^fJstrelata grisea. 



21. Proc. "Forst. tab. 20," p. 145. Aa undetermined species. 



22. Proc. puffinus, p. 146. = Puffiims major Fab. 



23. Proc, anglorum, p. 146. = Puffinus anglorum Temm. 



24. Proc. obscurus, p. 147. = Vieillot's species. 



25. Proc. cinerea, "L." p. 148. Not of Linnaeus or Gmelin j but the Puffinus 

 Kuhlii Boie. 



26. Proc. munda " Banks, tab. 24," p. 148. = Quid ? 



27. Proc. fuliginosa " Banks tab. 23," p. 148. Quite a different bird from 

 Kuhl's sp. 12. Unidentifiable by the description. By G. R. Gray identified 

 with Proc. pacifica Lath,, whatever that species may be ! 



28. Proc. vittata p. 149. = Prion vittatus Lacep. 



Stephens, Continuation of Shaw's General Zoology/, xiii. (1825.), 



This work closely adheres to Gmelin's and Latham's authority. A few 

 points may profitably be examined. 



Proc. oceanica, p. 223. Not the Oceanites oceanica (TTialassidroma TF^7«om')but 

 a species of Fregetta, probably F. grallaria. Author refers t<3 Forster ; to PL 

 Enl. 993 ; to Temm. Man. p. 520 ; and to Bp. Journ. Acad. Phila. v. iii. p. 8. 

 On the following page (p. 224) _" Proe. Wilsoni" is presented. 



Puff, cinereus, p. 227. The synonyms adduced are chiefly those of Adamastor 

 cinereus ; description applies either to this latter or to Puffinus Kuhlii Bo'ie ; 

 the description of the young would do for Puffinus major Fab. 



Puff, seguinoctialis, p. 229. Cites Proc. pacijica Lath, as a CLueried synoaym. 



Puff, obscurus, p. 230, is Gmelin's species. 



Genus Fulmarus instituted, p. 233. 



Fulmarus antarcticus, Steph. p. 236, is based upon Proc.glacialisxBiT. B. Lath. 

 Ind. Orn. ii. p. 823, ( = Var. A. sp. 9, p. 405, of Lath. Gen. Syn.) which is 

 the Thalassoica glacialoides. This synonym of th-e species was accidently 

 omitted in my paper on the Fulmarese, and the omission not discovered until 

 too late. 



Genus Daption instituted, p. 239, with capensis as type. The author "ven- 

 tures to attach the numerous Southern Petrels described by Latham thereto," 

 producing a heterogeneous assemblage in which figure antarctica, nivea, deso- 

 lata, gelida, grisea, (of Linn.. nee Kuhl, Schl.) alba, &nd fuliginosa ( = Latham's 

 Otaheite species.) 



Genus Pachyptila " 111." adopted ; under it are arranged, besides its type 

 vittata (h.QVQ called ^^ Forsteri") coerulea Gm., marina Leith.,fregata Linn, and 

 furcata Gm., nearly all of which are typical of distinct genera. 



Joan. Rein. Forster, Descr. Anim. etc. curante Henr. Lichtenstein. (1844.) 



The numerous species described and named by Forster have an important 

 bearing upon the bibliography of the Family. It is greatly to be regretted 

 that they were only published at a comparatively recent date : and that his 

 figures still remain inedited. Forster appears to have had very little regard 

 for priority in the matter of names ; but his descriptions are in the main so 

 excellent, that nearly all his species are identifiable. The following is a list 

 of the species given by him : 

 Proc. capensis, p. 20. 

 Proc. vittata, p. 21. 



Proc. fuliginosa,^. 23. ^= Proc. atlantica Gould. =iPterodroma atlantica Bp. 

 = ^strelata fuliginosa of mj -psi-per. Not of Gm, Lath. Vieill. Not of 

 Strickland. Equals Kuhl's sp. 12 ; but not his sp. 27. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Proc, puffinus^ p. 23, Not of Linn. Gm. Lath. Some large Southern Puffinus 

 possibly the true P. major^ Fab. 



Proc. fflaicalis, p, 25. Not of L. Gm. Lath. ; but the Thalassoica glacialoides 

 (Smith) Reich. 



Proc. nigra^ p. 26, = seguinoctialis L. 



Proc. nivea, p. 58. 



Proc. similis, p. 59. = Halohsena coerulea, Bp. ex Gm. 



Proc. aniarctica, pp. 60 and 202. 



Proc. gavia, p. 148. Not subsequently identified with any known species. By 

 Gray regarded as a valid species ; and so given in these papers. 



Proc. tridactyla^ p. 149. ^z Pelecanoides urinatrix Lacep. ex Gm. 



Proc. fregata. p. 180. The grallaria of Lichtenstein ; not of Vieillot. Probably 

 the species subsequently named melanogaster by Gould. 



Proc. inexpectata, p. 204. A somewhat doubtful species, coming nearest to 

 mollis Gould, with which I have identified it. 



Proc. tristis, p, 205. ('' Pr. fuliginosa, rostro fusco, pedibus antice glaucis ; 

 m X 38; bill 2; its width A; its depth f.") A southern fuliginous 

 Puffinus, not identified with any known species. Mr. G. R. Gray (Ibis, 

 1862, p. 244) considers it as a valid species, and assigns the following 

 synonymy : Proc. grisea Forst. ic. ined. 94; (nee Gm.) Puff, major, Gray, 

 Ereb. and Terr, (nee Fab.) P. fuliginosus Homb. and Jacq. Voy. Pole. 

 Sud. tab. 32, fig. 7. (nee Strickl.) Puf. cinereus A. Smith, 111. S. Afr. 

 Bds. (nee Gm. nee Auct.) Nectris gama, Bonap. 



Proc. Uucocephala, p. 206. =^Proc. Lessonii Garn. (jEstrelata Lessoni Cass.) 



Proc. Jicesitata, p. 208. = P. cinereus, Gm. Lath. Vieill. Lawr. = Adamastor 

 iypus Bp. = Adam, ciner. or Priofinus ciner. Coues. = Proc. Adamastcr 

 Schlegel, etc. etc. The hsesitata of Gould and Reichenbach, but not of 

 Kuhl and Temminck, which is an ^strelaia. 



Proc. ossifraga^ p. 343. z= gigantea Gm. 



In bringing to a close the present series of papers, the author is deeply 

 sensible of their many defects ; and can only crave for them a lenient judg- 

 ment in view of the very difficult nature of the task he attempted, and has 

 throughout conducted, with the sole desire of elucidating truth. Should the 

 undertaking prove a failure, and the meagre results incommensurate with 



the time and labor bestowed, — at least it may be said of him, ''■ si non 



tenuit, magnis tamen excidit ausis." 



Observations upon the Cranial Forms of the American Aborigines, based upon 



Specimens contained in the Collection of the Academy of Natural 



Sciences of Philadelphia. 



BY J. AITKEN MEIGS, M. D. 



The early record of every science abounds in crude facts, imperfect obser- 

 vations, and, consequently, in generalizations so hastily formed as to partake 

 more of the character of mere speculation than of strictly logical deduction. 

 These erroneous statements and premature generalizations are at first gene- 

 rally accepted as scientific truths. A few cautious observers, it is true, may 

 withhold from them their assent, but their opinions find no support beyond 

 themselves, until these facts and hypotheses come in conflict with others bet- 

 ter known and better established, or, are employed in developing still higher 

 and more comprehensive theories. Then, for the first time, they are subjected 

 to a rigid investigation, and their true value, at length, ascertained. Nowhere 

 can we find a more instructive example of this assertion than in the doctrine 

 which ascribes to the American aborigines a homogeneous cranial type. 

 For the philosophical ethnologist this doctrine is full of interest. If the 



1866.] 




198 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



physical, and more especially the cranial, characteristics of the native 

 races of the New World are at once common and peculiar to them, it is strong, 

 presumptive evidence that they are isolated or distinct from the rest of man- 

 kind in origin. If, on the contrary, it can be shown that the skulls of these 

 people really belong to diflferent, well-marked types or forms, which, if not 

 identical with, are, at least, the homoiocephalic representatives of those of 

 the Eastern Hemisphere, it becomes very probable that there is for the Ameri- 

 can variety of man neither unity nor genetic isolation. The discussion of the 

 origin and affiliations of this widely spread race has an important bearing 

 upon the higher and more complex question of the unity of the entire human 

 family. As this discussion involves, among other facts, the consideration of 

 the osteological characters of the aboriginal American, it becomes very im- 

 portant to determine with exactitude the typical, cranial form or forms of this 

 race. 



The extraordinary doctrine of a uniform American type of skull originated, 

 as is well known, with the late Dr. Samuel George Morton. He was also the 

 most enthusiastic and persistent advocate of this scientific dogma. A variety 

 of circumstances combined to give unusual acceptance to his views. He be- 

 gan his craniographic researches two years after the completion of Blumen- 

 bach's Decades Craniorum, by accumulating what was then, as far as I can 

 learn, the largest and most diversified collection of human skulls in the world. 

 These he long and attentively studied, until he acquired the right to speak 

 authoritatively concerning them. No one was in possession of so many na- 

 tive American crania as he, and so little interest was manifested in human 

 craniography at that time, that but few if any persons ever examined his col- 

 lection with the object of testing the validity of his conclusions. Moreover, 

 prior to the publication of Crania Americana^ Dr. Morton had already acquired 

 the double reputation of a naturalist and a physician, and for several years 

 before his death occupied the most prominent, official position in the Acade- 

 my of Natural Sciences. In view of these facts, it is not at all surprising 

 that his opinions, instead of being controverted, as they now are, found ready 

 adherents ; and that one of the most eminent of living naturalists should have 

 employed them, as Avell established facts, in his attempt "to show that the 

 boundaries, within which the different natural combinations of animals are 

 known to be circumscribed upon the surface of our earth, coincide with the 

 natural range of distinct types of man.''* 



In 1856, while preparing for publication an article on the cranial charac- 

 teristics of the various races of menf I especially directed my attention to 

 those groups of crania in the Academy's collection which had not been de- 

 scribed by Dr. Morton. With regard to American and Egyptian skulls, which 

 he had so long and so carefully studied, I contented myself with reproducing 

 the conclusions which he had already published, my object being to exhibit 

 in general panoramic review the skull-forms of the human family. In the 

 concluding remarks of that article I observed that just as "the Kalmuck or 

 true Mongolian, the Tartar, Chinese, Japanese and Turkish types of skull are 

 all, to a certain extent, related, and yet are all readily distinguishable from 

 each other, and as each of these groups again presents several cranial varie- 

 ties ; so, among the barbarous aborigines of North America, notwithstanding 

 the general osteologic assimilation of their crania, important tribal distinc- 

 tions can be readily pointed out." I also remarked: " It is a general and 

 very well known fact — first noticed by Buffon — that the fauna and flora of the 

 Old World are not specifically identical with the fauna and flora of the New. 

 Their relationship is manifested in an interesting system of representation, 

 or as Schouw expresses it, of geographical repetition according to climate. 

 To a certain extent, human cranial forms appear also to fall within the limits 



* Sketch of the Natural Provinces of the Animal World and their relation to the different Types 

 of Man. By Louis Agassiz. See Types of Mankind, p. Iviii. 

 t Indigenous Kaces of the Earth, p. 203. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



of this system. As far as my own opportunities for examination have gone, 

 I have not been able to find a single aboriginal American type of skull which, 

 in all its essential details, could be regarded as strictly identical with any in 

 Europe, Asia, Africa or Australia." " The massive, heavy skulls of northern 

 temperate Asia and Europe are represented in America by those of the Bar- 

 barous tribes — decidedly different, but allied forms. So the comparatively 

 small-headed Peruvians represent the equally small-headed Hindoos."* 



In 1859, while attempting to determine the ethnic type of a singularly de- 

 formed skull from Jerusalem,! by comparing it with other crania, I noticed, 

 for the first time, how much the form of the occiput differed in the various 

 tribes of Indians. I also observed that "upon our side of the Atlantic the 

 Swedish crania find their representatives in the Arickaree Indian skulls." 

 Subsequently, in another paper, published in the Proceedings of the Academy ^X I 

 endeavored to show that the conformation of the occiput varied as much among 

 the aboriginal American races as among the natives of the Old World. I pro- 

 pose now to demonstrate that this diversity'is not confined to the occipital re- 

 gion only, but is exhibited by the skull as a whole. Before, however, interroga- 

 ting upon this point the magnificent collection which science owes to the untir- 

 ing industry and sagacity of Dr. Morton, it becomes necessary to inquire for 

 a moment how this eminent craniographer was led to adopt the singular con- 

 clusions which he has given to the world in Crania Americana and subse- 

 quent publications. 



It is well known that, with few but important exceptions, the earlier trav- 

 ellers who visited the New World, and certain historians also, speak decided- 

 ly of the general resemblance which pervades the aboriginal American tribes. 

 Their uniformity of aspect, customs, &c., led Herrera to assign to them a com- 

 mon origin§. "Whoever," said Don Antonio Ulloa, "has seen an Indian of 

 whatever region may say that he has seen them all."|| Bernard Romans was 

 " firmly of the opinion that God created an original man and woman in Ame- 

 rica of different species from any in other parts of the earth. "][ Robertson 

 declared that all the inhabitants of America, except the Esquimaux, " must 

 be pronounced to be descended from one source."** Malte Brun thought 

 ''that the Americans, whatever their origin may be, constitute, in the present 

 day, by their physical characters, not less than by their peculiar idiom, a race 

 essentially different from the rest of mankind. "ff In conformity with this 

 view he placed them alone in the last of the sixteen races into which he di- 

 vided the whole human family. Linnreus^t Gmelin.§§ Herder,|||| Kant,^^ 

 Buflfon,*** Hunter,ttt Blumenbach,JJ+ Lawrence,^^^ Dumeril |1||1| and other 

 writers, in their attempts at the classification of the races of men, have uni- 



* Ibid. pp. 351, 352. 



f Description of a Deformed Frngmentary Human Skull, found in an ancient Quarry-Cave at 

 Jerusalem, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci., Sept., 1859, p. 262. 



J Observations upon the Form of the Occiput in the various Eaces of Men, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Sept , 1860, p. 397. 



g Historia de las Indias. 



II " Visto un Indio de qualquier region, se puede decir que se ban visto todos en quanto al color 

 y contextura." Noticias Americanas: entretenimientos fisico-historicos sobro la America meridi- 

 onal, y la septentrional oriental, etc. Su Auter el Exc. Sr. Don Antonio de Ulloa. Madrid, 1792, 

 p. 253. 



% A concise Natural History of East and West Florida. New York, 1776, p. 38. 



** History of America. London, 1803, vol. 2, p. 46. 



+f Universal Geography. Boston. 1826, vol. v. p. 12. 



tt Systema Natura, ed. 12 et 13, Homo. English translation by Robt. Karr, London, 1792, p. 45. 



iglbid, p. 46. 



IJII Zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit, XL S. 4, 68. 



%*^ Engel's Philosophie fiir die Welt, ii. 



♦** Oiluvres completes de Buffon. Paris, 1774, t. v. 



ttt Dlsputatio Inauguralis qusedam de Hominum varietatibus, etc. Edinburgi, 1775, p. 9. 



lit De Generis Humani Varietate Nativa. Goettingae, 1795, p. 286 



Hf Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, Physiology, Zoology and the Natural History of Maa. 

 London, 1848, Bohn's Edition, p. 247. 



II III] Zoologie Analytique. Paris, 1806, p. 7. 



1866.] 




200 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



formly assigned the American family to a separate group or class. Others 

 again, like Zimmerman,^ Viroy,f Humboldt, J Garnot,^ and various au- 

 thorities of a still more recent date, associate the aboriginal Americans 

 with the Mongols or other Asiatics. It is an interesting fact that Cuvier[( 

 recognized three distinct races of man, into neither of which, however, did he 

 place the Americans, but left them unclassified. 



The statements of the earlier investigators — those of the sixteenth and 

 seventeenth centuries — concerning the similarity of physical characters ex- 

 hibited by the different sections of the American race, harmonize remarkably 

 with the results of the laborious and protracted researches of different emi- 

 nent philologists. As early as 1798, Dr. Barton endeavored to show " that in 

 all the vast countries of America, there is but one language."^ In 1810, the 

 celebrated philologue, Valer, to whom had been committed the completion of 

 Adelung's Mithridates, or Allgemeine Sprachenkunde showed that the general in- 

 ternal or grammatical structure of the Anierican languages was the same for 

 all.** Humboldt, in his Personal Narrative, testified to the same remarkable 

 phenomenon. ff Du Ponceau characterized the peculiar, complicated grammar 

 of the American idioms from Greenland to Cape Horn by the term polysyn- 

 thetic.|J Still later, Gallatin affirmed that all the languages of the native in- 

 habitants of America from the Arctic Ocean to Cape Horn, have, as far as they 

 have been investigated, a distinct character common to. all, and apparently 

 differing from any of those of the other continent with which we are most 

 familiar. ^^ 



While these and other observers were thus surveying the American Races 

 from a philological standpoint, the late Dr. Morton was industriously en- 

 gaged in collecting the materials necessary to illustrate their osteology, and 

 at the same time the distinguished French naturalist, M. Alcide D'Orbigny 

 was travelling in South America and studying the natives, not with the un- 

 practised and superficial eye of the curious traveller, but with that of the 

 closely observant and discriminating anatomist. 



The remarkably discrepant ethnological results of the labors of these emi- 

 nent naturalists were given to the world at the same time. The Crania Ame- 

 ricana and L' Homme Americain both appeared in the year 1839. In the former 

 work. Dr. Morton, speaking of the native Americans, declared that "it may 

 be assumed as a fact that no other race of men maintains such a striking 

 analogy through all its subdivisions, and amidst all its variety of physical 

 circumstances. "II [| In a later publication he asserted that " the peculiar phy- 

 siognomy of the Indian is as undeviatingly characteristic as that of the Ne- 

 gro ; for whether we see him in the athletic Charib or the stunted Chayma, in 

 the dark Californian or the fair Borroa. he is an Indian still, and cannot be 

 mistaken for a being of any other race."^^ On the other hand, M. D'Orbigny 

 afiirraed, with equal emphasis, that " a Peruvian is more different from a Pa- 

 tagonian, and a Patagonian from a Guarani than is a Greek from an Ethio- 



* Zoologie Geographique, Cassel, 1784. L'Homme. 



t Histoire naturelle du Genre Ilumain. I'aiis, 1824, f. i. p. 480. 



t Personal Narrative of Travels to the Equinoctial Regions of America. London, 1852, vol. i. 

 p. 325. 



§ Dictionnaire d'histoire naturelle. L'Homme. 



It Le Re.une Animal, p. 103 



*[ Xew Views of the Origin of the Tribes and Nations of America. By Benjamin Smith Barton, 

 M. D.. Phiia., 1798, p. Ixxv. 



** Untersuchung liber Amerikas Bevolkeruiig aus dem alten Continente. Leipzig, 1810. Mith- 

 ridates, 3 Th. 2 Abth. p. 340. See also Wiseman's Twelve Lectures on the Connection between 

 Science and Revealed Religion, London, 1842, p. 80. 



tt Bohn's Edition, vol. i. p, 313. 



J j Trrtnsactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 1, New Series, 1818, p. xi.; vol. 3, 

 pp. 76, 77. 



g§ Archaeologia Americana, vol. 2, pp. 5, 118. 



I'll P- 63. 



^^ An Inquiry into the Distinctive Characteristics of the Aboriginal Race of America, 2d edit. 

 Philada., 1844, p. 5. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



plan or a Mongolian."-^ This language sounds like the echo of the words of 

 Molina and of Humboldt. " I laugh in my sleeve," said the former, " when 

 I read in certain modern writers, supposed to be diligent observers, that all 

 the Americans have the same appearance, and that when a man has seen 

 one, he may say that he has seen them all." "A Chilian does not differ less 

 in aspect from a Peruvian, than an Italian from a German. I have seen 

 myself Paraguaynos, Cujanos and Magellanos, all of whom have their pecu- 

 liar lineaments which are easily distinguished from those of the others. "f 

 And Humboldt, too, an eye witness like Molina and D'Orbigny, tells us "that 

 those Europeans who have sailed on the great rivers Orinoco and Amazon, 

 and have had occasion to see a great number of tribes assembled under the 

 monastical hierarchy in the missions, must have observed that the American 

 race contains nations whose features differ as essentially from one another, 

 as the numerous varieties of the race of Caucasus, the Circassians, Moors and 

 Persians, differ from one another." " What a difference between the figure, 

 physiognomy, and physical constitution of the tall Charibs, who ought to be 

 accounted one of the most robust nations on the face of the earth, and the 

 squat bodies of the Chayma Indians of the province of Cumana. What a 

 difference of form between the Indians of Tlascala and the Lipans and the 

 Chichimecs of the northern part of Mexico. "J 



BluQienbach recorded his conviction that "in the American variety of 

 mankind, as in others, countenances of all sorts occur. "g Both Lawrence|| 

 and Prichard, also distinctly recognized the differences exhibited by the abo- 

 riginal Americans. 



" Perhaps the degree of resemblance to a common type subsisting between 

 the nations of America," says Prichard, " may admit of comparison with 

 that which is to be traced between the different nations of Europe or among 

 the races of Africa, or those of the northeastern parts of Asia, It is not 

 universally prevalent in the same degree, but there appears to be in every in- 

 stance some approximation to it; yet there can be no doubt that the resem- 

 blance has been in general much exaggerated. It will be easy to prove that 

 the American races, instead of displaying an uniformity of color in all cli- 

 mates, show nearly as great a variety in this respect as the nations of the old 

 continent ; that there are among them white races with a florid complexion 

 inhabiting temperate regions, and tribes black or of very dark hue in low and 

 intertropical countries, that their stature, figure and countenances are almost 

 equally diversified." "The nations of South America have in general flatter 

 faces, and many of them a shorter and broader shape of body than the North 

 Americans. In these respects the southern people are more like the Tura- 

 nian nations than the northern tribes."^ 



In another work he remarks : "Anatomists have distinguished what they 

 termed the American form of the human skull; they were led into this mis- 

 take by regarding the strongly marked characteristics of some particular 

 tribes as universal. The American nations are spread over a vast space, and 

 live in different climates, and the shape of their heads is different in different 

 parts."** 



According to Dr. Barton, a writer named Postel "is said to have been the 

 first ' who made such a difference between the two Americas, by means of the 

 Isthmus of Panama, that the inhabitants of those two continents have no- 



*L'Homme Americain (de TAmerique M6ridionale), considers sous «es rapports physiologiqucs 

 et moraux. Paris, 1839. t. 1, p. 123. 



t Saggio Sulla Storia Naturale del Chili. Bologna, 1810. p. 336. 



J Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain. New York, 1811, vol. i. p. 107. 



g De Generis Uumani Varietate Nativa, Edit. Tertia, Gottingae, 1795, p. 316. See also the Anthro- 

 pological Treatises of Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, translated by Thos. Bendyshe, London, 

 1865, p. 273. 



P Op. cit. pp. 221, 223, 224, 247 and 248. 



^Researches into the Physical History of Mankind, 4th Edit, London, 1841, voL 1, p. 269. 



** The Natural History of Man, 4th Edition, London, 1855, voL 2, p. 495. 



1866.] 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tiling common in their origin.' "* The Abbe Clavigero entertained a similar 

 idea.f 



Such, in brief terms, were the conflicting statements promulgated by differ- 

 ent writers prior to the publication of Crania Americana. With all these Dr. 

 Morton was thoroughly conversant. Through Cardan he knew that the skulls 

 of the inhabitants of the old Portus Provinciae were square and deficient in 

 the occiput, that Charlevoix described the heads of one of the Indian nations 

 of Canada as globular, and those of another as flat \X ^^^^ De Pauw speaks 

 of certain Indians on the borders of the Maragnon having square or cubical 

 heads, ^ and that Malte Brun described the aboriginal Americans as having, 

 araoug other characters, " heads of a square shape, with the occipital bone 

 not so convey, and the facial line more inclined than among the Mongol 

 race. "II He knew that Humboldt had declared in his Researches "that the 

 nations of America, except those which border on the polar circle, form a 

 single race characterized by the formation of the skull," &c.T[ He was fa- 

 miliar also with the statements of Von Spix and Martins that the Brazilians 

 resembled the Chinese in possessing, among other physical characters, " a 

 small, not oblong, but roundish, angular, rather pointed head, with a 

 broad crown, prominent sinus frontales, low forehead, and pointed and 

 prominent cheek-bones."^'^ He was also acquainted with the fact that both 

 Desraoulins and Bory de St. Vincent ascribed to a number of the American 

 races a spherical head as a prominent characteristic. Among the earlier 

 specimens added to his subsequently famous cranial collection, were some 

 brachycephalic skulls, with truncated or more or less vertically flattened oc- 

 ciputs. ff These, together with the numerous short-headed Peruvian crania 

 in his cabinet, presented such a striking contrast with the ordinary elongated 

 head-forms of the human family in general, that he was hastily led to regard 

 the short, round or angular skull with flat occiput and depressed forehead, as 

 the typical cranial form of the aboriginal Americans. This form he proba- 

 bly regarded as the osteological analogue to the holophrastic or polysynthetic 

 character which the philologist had already declared to be at once common 

 and peculiar to the American races. 



Dr. Morton divided the American race into two great families — the Toltecan 

 and the Barbarous Tribes. The latter he subdivided into the Appalachian, 

 Brazilian, Patagonian and Fuegian branches. To the Appalachians he as- 

 cribed a rounded head ; large, salient and aquiline nose ; dark brown eyes, 

 with little or no obliquity of position; large and straight mouth ; nearly ver- 

 tical teeth and triangular face. They included all the nations of North Ame- 

 rica excepting the Mexicans, together with the tribes north of the river Ama- 

 zon, and east of the Andes. The Brazilian branch, located between the riv- 

 ers Amazon and La Plata, and between the Andes and the Atlantic, embraced 

 the whole of Brazil and Paraguay north of the 35th degree of south latitude. 

 The Patagonian branch included the nations south of the La Plata to the Straits 

 of Magellan and the mountain tribes of Chili. The Fuegian branch comprised 

 the people who inhabit the island of Terra del Fuego, often called Patago- 

 nians. The Esquimau or Polar Tribes, Dr. Morton separated entirely from 

 the American race, and designated them " Mongol Americans." 



With regard to the aboriginal American crania. Dr. Morton tells us that 

 "after examining a great number of skulls, he found that the nations east of 



♦Charlevoix's Voyage to North America; Preliminary Discourse, p. 3. See Barton's New Views, 

 p. xcvi. 



t History of Mexico, vol. 2, p. 215, 



J The Anthropological Treatises of Bhiraenbach, London, 1865, p. 121. 



I Recherches philosophiques sur les AmSricains, Berlin, 1777, 1. 1, p. 122. 



||0p. cit. pp. 12, 13. 



*|[ Uesearches concerning the Institutions and Monuments of the Ancient Inhabitants of 

 America. London, 1814. Vol. 1, p. 14. 



** Reise in Brasilien. Miinchen, 1823, Ir Th. S. 184. 



tt See the 1st Edition of his Catalogue of Skulls. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



the Alleghany Mountains, together with the cognate tribes, have the head 

 more elongated than any other Americans. This remark applies especially 

 to the great Lenap6 stock, the Iroquois and the Cherokees. To the west of 

 the Mississippi, we again meet with the elongated head in the Mandans, Ri- 

 caras, Assinaboins, and some other tribes. Yet even in these instances, the 

 characteristic truncation of the occiput is more or less obvious, while many 

 nations east of the Rocky Mountains have the rounded head so characteristic 

 of the race, as the Osages, Ottoes, Missouris, Dacotas and numerous others. 

 The same conformation is common in Florida ; but some of these nations are 

 evidently of the Toltecan family, as both their characters and traditions tes- 

 tify. The head of the Charibs, as well of the Antilles as of Terra Firma, are 

 also naturally rounded ; and we trace this character, so far as we have had 

 opportunity for examination, through the nations east of the Andes, the Pa- 

 tagonians and the tribes of Chili. In fact, the flatness of the occipital portion 

 of the cranium will probably be found to characterize a greater or less num- 

 ber of individuals in every existing tribe, from Terra del Fuego to the Cana- 

 das."* 



At a meeting of the Academy of Natural Sciences held June 1st, 1841, Dr. 

 Morton, in the course of some remarks upon the ancient Peruvians, again 

 speaks of " the squared or spheroidal form as characteristic of the American 

 race and especially of the Peruvians."! At another sitting of the Academy, 

 which took place on the 6th of July in the same year, he made some obser- 

 vations on eight Mexican skulls, and directed attention to the "high vertex, 

 fiat occiput, great lateral diameter and broad faces" of these crania as char- 

 acteristic features of the aboriginal Americans. "Whoever will be at the 

 pains," he said on that occasion, "to compare this series of skulls with those 

 from the barbarous tribes, will, I think, agree that the facts thus derived from 

 organic characters, corroborate the position I have long maintained, that all 

 the American nations, excepting the polar tribes, are of one race and one spe- 

 cies, but of two great families, which resemble each other in physical, but 

 differ in intellectual characters. "J 



These opinions Dr. Morton continued to reiterate, from time to time, at va- 

 rious meetings of the Academy.^ On the 27th of April, 1842, he read at the 

 Annual Meeting of the Boston Society of Natural History, An Inquiry into the 

 Distinctive Charateristics of the Aboriginal Race of America. In this paper he 

 contends still more emphatically for his favorite doctrine of the unity of the 

 American nations. After alluding to the color and stature of these people, he 

 says, " The same conformity of organization is not less obvious in their osteo- 

 logical structure, as seen in the squared or rounded head, the flattened or 

 vertical occiput, the high cheek bones, the ponderous maxillae, the large 

 quadrangular orbits, and the low, receding forehead. I have had opportunity 

 to compare nearly four hundred crania derived from tribes inhabiting almost 

 every region of both Americas, and have been astonished to find how the 

 preceding characters, in greater or less degree, pervade them all. This re- 

 mark is equally applicable to the ancient and modern nations of our conti- 

 nent ; for the oldest skulls from the Peruvian cemeteries, the tombs of Mexico 

 and the mounds of our own country, are of the same type as the heads of the 

 most savage existing tribes. Their physical organization proves the origin 

 of one to have been equally the origin of all." 



In this paper Dr. Morton objects to the observations of Molina and Hum- 

 boldt, above referred to, in disproof of this pervading uniformity of physical 

 characters, by saying that the different people mentioned by these writers are 

 really of one and the same race, and readily recognized as such, notwithstand- 



♦Crania Americana, pp. 64, 65. 



t Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. 1, p. 36. 



1 Ibid 1, p. 52. 



I See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. 1, pp. 126, 203; vol. 3, pp. 212, 213. 



1866.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ing their differences of feature and complexion; and the American nations, 

 he thinks, present a precisely parallel case. Bat tliis objection, which is far 

 from being a valid one, can by no possibility be urged against the analogous 

 remarks of M. D'Orbigny. 



In 1846, Dr. Morton contributed to the American Journal of Sciences,* Some 

 Observations on the Ethnography and Archoeology of the American Aborigines, in 

 which he "avers that sixteen years of almost daily comparisons have only 

 confirmed him in the conclusions announced in his Crania Americana, that 

 all the American nations, excepting the Esquimaux, are of one race, and that 

 this race is peculiar and distinct from all others. The first of these propo- 

 sitions may be regarded as an axiom in Ethnography ; the second still gives 

 rise to a diversity of opinions, of which the most prevalent is that which 

 would merge the American race in the Mongolian." 



In the same year he published An account of his Craniological Collection] with 

 remarks on the Classification of some Families of the Human Race, in the form of a 

 letter, addressed to Mr. John R. Bartlett, Secretary of the American Ethnologi- 

 cal Society.f In this letter he thus writes : 



" The anatomical facts, considered in conjunction with every other species 

 of evidence to which I have had access, lead me to regard all the American 

 nations, excepting the Esquimaux, as people of one great race or group. From 

 Cape Horn to Canada, from ocean to ocean, they present a common type of 

 physical organization, and a not less remarkable similarity of moral and men- 

 tal endowments which appear to isolate them from the rest of mankind ; and 

 we have yet to discover the unequivocal links that connect them with the 

 people of the old world." 



Dr. Morton's last contribution to craniograpbical science, J which was 

 published -after his death, shows conclusively that his views respecting the 

 homogeneity of the aboriginal American races had undergone no change 

 whatever. In this paper he still maintains the doctrine of a uniform, cranial 

 type for these races, with the same arguments and in language almost iden- 

 tical with that which he employed in his Inquiry ten years before. 



I make these references to his published opinions to show that Dr. Morton 

 perseveringly inculcated this doctrine from the inception to the very close of 

 his ethnological studies, comprising a period of about twenty-one years ; 

 that he was thoroughly convinced of its truthfulness, and regarded it as one 

 of the best established and most readily demonstrable of all the conclusions 

 at which he had arrived after a long and unwearied study of his cranial 

 collection. 



It is a remarkable fact, however, that opinions diametrically opposed to 

 these were maintained by two French ethnologists, with whose writings Dr. 

 Morton was familiar, and whose classifications he criticises adversely in CVama 

 Americana.^ I allude to Dr. Desmoulins and M. Bory de St. Vincent. 



As far back as 1826 Desmoulins divided the aboriginal Americans into two 

 species, — the Columbians and the Americans. To the first he assigned as 

 their chief specific character an " elongated head," and to the second " a 

 generally spherical head." The Columbians occupied the whole of North 

 America, all the table lands and declivities of the Cordilleras, from Chili to 

 Cumana, and also the Caribbean archipelago. The Americans comprised the 

 Omaguas, Gauranis, Coroados, Puris, Atures, Ottoraacs, Botocudos, Guiacas, 

 Mbayas, Charruas, Puelches, and TehuUetts or Patagonians. " There is no 

 doubt," says Desmoulins, " that the Columbians, and still more the Ameri- 

 cans, are each again divisible into several species, as different from each other 

 as those of Africa.]] 



* Vol. II. Second Series. 



t Transactions of the American Ethnological Society, vol. 2, p. 217. 



J Physical Type of the American Indians, in Schoolcraft's Information respecting the History, 

 Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States. Part 2, p. 315. 



Z Pp 63, 84, 85. 



I Tableau General, physique et geographiqne des EspSces et des Races du Genre Ilumain, con- 

 tained in Histoire Naturelle des Races Uumaines du Nord-est de I'Europe, etc. Paris, 1826. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



205 



Bory de St. Vincent divided the Americans into four species,— the Nep- 

 tunian, Columbian, American and Patagonian. Of the Columbians he says: 

 " Leur tete est bien conformee, il en resulte une figure agreablement ovale, 

 ou le front est cependant singuliferement aplati ;" and of the Americans : 

 " Les hommes ont, a pen d'exception pres, la tete ronde, d'un volume dispro- 

 portionne, enfonc^e dans les epaules, lourde, aplatie sur le vertex," &c.* 



In 1839, M. D'Orbigny, speaking of the native races of South America, de- 

 clared that, after examining a large number of crania, he was convinced that 

 they differed from each other not only according to race and nation, but also 

 individually ; and that it would be as difficult to prove that the form of the 

 head is one among the Americans, as to demonstrate rigorously the perma- 

 nent cranial characters, which would be sufficient to distinguish them from 

 other nations. f 



The late Prof. Ketzius communicated to the meeting of the Scandinavian 

 Association of Naturalists, held at Stockholm, in 1842, a valuable paper on 

 the Form of the Skulls of Northerns^ in which he refers the Greenlanders and 

 some of the American races to the prognathic Dolichocephali, and others of 

 the American family to the prognathic Brachycephali.J Two years later he 

 read before the same Association, at a meeting held in Christiania, in July, 

 1844, another essay On the Form of the Skull in different Nations,^ in which he 

 devotes a special section to the American races, and classifies them in the 

 following manner, according to the length of the cranium : 



j' Greenlanders and Esquimaux, 

 Kolusches, 

 Cherokees, 

 Chippeways, 

 Iroquois, 

 Hurons, 

 Chickasaws, 

 Cayugas, 

 Ottigamies, 

 Pottawotomies, 

 G. dolichocephalffi , Lenni Lenape, 



prognathaj. ' t Blackfeet. 



Northern Americans. 



G. brachycephalae 

 prognathee. 



Southern Americans, 



Northern Americans, 



Botocudos, 

 Caribs, 

 Guaranis, 

 Aymaras, 

 Huanchas, 

 Patagonians. 

 Natches, 

 Creeks, 

 Seminoles, 

 Euches, 

 ^ Klatskanai. 



f Charruas, 

 Puelches, 



Southern Americans, j Araucanians, 



[Modern Peruvians. 



* L' Homme (Homo). Essai Zoologique sur le Genre Humaia; 2d edit., Paris, 1827, t. 2, pp. 6, 21. 



+ L'Homme Americain, 1. 1. pp. 118, 119, 120. 



X Om Formen af Nordboernes Cranier, af A. Retzius. (Aftryckt ur Forhandl, vid Nattirfors- 

 karnes Mote i Stockholm, Ur 1842.) Stockholm, 1843, p. 4. See also '• tfber die Schadelformen der 

 Nordbewobner," in J. Miiller's Archiv. for 1845. 



g Om formen af hufvudets benstomme hos olika folkslag. Ved Prof. A. A. Retzius, M. D. (Af- 

 trykt fra " Forhandlinger ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskeres fjerde mode i Christiania fra 11 — 

 18 Juli, 1844.") Christiania, 1847, pp. 17, 18. See also the German translation, Ueber die Form 

 dea Knochengerustes des Kopfes bei den verschiedenen "Volkern, pp 280, 281. 



1866.] 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



G 



braohyccphalce [Northern Americans. | Aztecs in Mexico? 

 orthognathae. 1 Southern Americans, jchincas in Peru? 



The latest and best elaborated views of Prof. Retzius upon this subject are 

 contained in a valuable essay, entitled A Glance at the present state of Ethnolo- 

 gy^tcith reference to the Form of the Skull* This paper was read at the seventh 

 meeting of the Scandinavian Association of Naturalists, held at Christiania 

 in 1856. In it, the author thus criticises the theory of American unity, so 

 long and so persistently supported by Dr. Morton : 



"No European philosopher has," says Prof. Retzius, " since the time of 

 Blumenbach, devoted such fertile labor to the subject of ethnological crani- 

 ology as Dr. Morton, of Philadelphia, in his ' Crania Americana;' the results 

 of which are, nevertheless, but little satisfactory. Morton, himself, who has 

 brought forward so many facts of high value, has, like the distinguished 

 linguist who with such indefatigable labor studied the American tongues, 

 come mainly to the conclusion that both the race and the language are one. 

 I am rather perplexed as to this result, for I must confess that, from the facts 

 iDrought forward by Morton, and the numerous skulls with which he has so 

 kindly enriched the collections in Stockholm, I have arrived at a wholly dif- 

 ferent inference. I can explain this only by supposing that this distinguished 

 man has allowed his extensive philology and great learning to atfect his 

 vision as a naturalist. If the form of the skull is to have any weight in the 

 question of the races of man, there is scarcely any part of the world where 

 such contrasts are to be found between dolichocephali and brachycephali as in 

 America, and as such they present themselves to the eye of the naturalist in 

 Morton's 'Crania Americana.' I may just refer, for proof of this, to plate 2, 

 * Peruvian child from Atacama ,•' plate 32, ' Lenni Lenape ;' plate 38, ' Pawnee ;' 

 plate 40, ' Cotonay, Blackfoot ;' plate 64, ' Carib of Venezuela ;' plate 65, ' Ca- 

 rib of St. Vincent ' — all of the most marked dolichocephalic forms ; and, on the 

 other hand, to plates 30 and 31, ' Natches,' with the great majority of the 

 figures of skulls from Chili, Peru, Mexico and Oregon, with many others of 

 equally well marked brachycephalic form. Much as these plates bear the 

 same testimony, I should scarcely have ventured on such a remark, did not a 

 very rich series in our own collections, as well as several valuable drawings 

 by Blumenbach, Sandifort, Van der Hoeven, &c., support my opinion. 



" From what I can infer from the American skulls I have seen, whether in 

 nature or in casts or plates, I have come to the conclusion that the dolicho- 

 cephalic is the predominant form in the Carribbee Islands, and in the eastern 

 region of the great American continent, from its most northern limit down 

 to Paraguay and ITraguay; and the brachycephalic in the Kurile Islands and 

 on the continent, from Behring's Strait, in Russian America, Oregon, Mexico, 

 Ecuador in Peru, Bolivia, Chili, Argentina, Patagonia, and Terra del Fuego. 



"Morton has also drawings of four Esquimau skulls, from the most north- 

 ern parts of America, and from the island of Disco, off the coast of Greenland ; 

 all of the characteristic form. In the text he says that they are always 

 characteristic, and that they are most decidedly distinguished from the skulls 

 of the American Indians ; but adds at the same time, singularly enough, that 

 these Esquimaux are the only Americans presenting the Asiatic characters. 

 It is evident that this distinguished man has been guided by his already es- 



* Blick auf den gegenwartigen Standpankt der Ethnologie in Bezug auf die Gestalt des Knoch- 

 ernen Schadelgeriistes. Von Andreas Retzius, Berlin, 1857. See also J. Mailer's Archiv. fUr 

 Anatomie und Physiologie, 1858; and for an English translation see British and Foreign Medico- 

 Chirurgical Ileview for April and July, 1860. This transition was executed by Dr. W. D. Moore, 

 who informs us that in the last letter which he received from Prof. Retzius, the latter says : "You give 

 me also hope to see my ethnological views in English ; I should be very thankful for that, as you 

 see that it contains some views of, as I think, great importance ; as in the question of the unity of 

 the American races, which I have clearly shown false." This letter appears to have been written 

 not long before the death of tbii eminent Swedish craniographer. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 207 



tablished views, rather than by the strict investigation of facts. He saw in 

 the formation of the face of the Esquimaux, something Mongolian, that is, 

 Asiatic; but he overlooked the prominent occiputs, as well as other charac- 

 ters which are not Mongolian. In like manner he, as it were, forgot the 

 beautiful figures given by himself, in his splendid work of dolichocephalic 

 American Indians; of which some in particular, as Cotonay (Blackfoot), 

 Cherokee, Chippeway, and, above all, Cayuga (PI. 35), approach the form of 

 the Esquimau skull, with their large alveolar processes and projecting 

 occiputs."* 



Prof. Retzius refers the aboriginal inhabitants of America to three distinct 

 sources. As certain Chinese skulls in the museum of the Carolinean Insti- 

 tute resemble Tungusian and Greenland crania, he traces the pedigree of the 

 Esquimaux into Asia, among the Chinese population, the transitionary link 

 being the Aleutians. The dolichocephalic Indians he assumes to be related 

 to the Guanches of the Canary Islands, and the Atlantic tribes in Africa, as 

 the Moors, Berbers, Tuaricks, Copts, &c., which are comprised under the 

 Amazirgh and Egyptian Atlantidae of Latham. The American brachycepha- 

 lic tribes, which belong chiefly to the side of America looking towards Asia, 

 the Pacific Ocean, and the South Sea, are allied, he thinks, to the Mongolian 

 nations. f 



D'Omalius d'Halloy, in 1845, divided the American Indians into a northern 

 branch, characterized with " elongated heads," and a southern branch, 

 having "the head ordinarily less elongated. "J 



In 1846 Dr. Zeune, from a careful examination of the skulls in the anatomi- 

 cal collection at Berlin, adopted three main cranial forms or types for the 

 western hemisphere. He remarks that, although Blumenbach and Prichard 

 grouped the races of the New World together as one, he found greater and 

 more marked diflerences among their skulls, than among those of the Old 

 World.! 



In 1850 Dr. Latham endeavored to show, by means of a comparative table 

 constructed from Dr. Morton's own measurements, that the general ascription 

 of the brachycephalic form to the American Indians was an error ; and that, 

 on the contrary, they were more frequently dolichocephalic. || 



In the same year Dr. Knox also expressed a doubt as to the " asserted 

 identity of the Red Indian throughout the entire range of continental 

 America."^ 



In 1848, Col. Chas. Hamilton Smith declared that "it is vain to assert that 

 all American Races, excepting the Esquimaux, have originally sprung from 

 one stock."** 



In the years 1855 and 1856, we find three other ethnologists, in widely sepa- 

 rated localities, expressing their doubts, each from his own independent ob- 

 servations, as to the validity of Dr. Morton's long cherished views. 



"The inspection of the Mexican skulls represented in Crania Americana," 

 says Dr. Gosse, " seems to prove that in these the depression of the occiput 

 was far from being as general and as marked as among the Incas and the 

 crania examined by Meyen ; for in many of them the head is rather normally 

 developed behind. "ff 



Dr. J. B. Davis also writes that though "this position of Morton's is no 



* Op. cit., pp. 23, 24, 29. 



t Op. cit., pp. 30 and 32. See also Ofvera, Afk. Wet. Akad., fdrh. 1855, No. 1, pp. 5 and 6. 

 X Des Races Humaines. Paris, 1846, pp. 169, 167, 



2 Uber Schiidelbildung zur feetern Begriindung der Menschenrassen. Von Prof. Dr. August Zeune, 

 BerJin, 1846, p. 13. 

 II The Natural History of the Varieties of Mau, London, 1850, p. 453. 

 f The Races of Men, 2d edit., Lond., 1862, pp. 127, 255, 256, 275. 

 ** The Natural History of the Human Species, Lond., 1859, pp. 251, 253. 

 tt Essai sur le Deformations Artificielles du Crane, Pans, 1855, pp. 72, 74. 



1866.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



doubt founded in truth, yet it must be allowed to be liable to numerous ex- 

 ceptions. "^* 



In November, 1856, Prof. Wilson, of Canada, -wbo, for some time before, 

 had been especially directing his attention to the conformation of the Ameri- 

 can Indian cranium, published an account of the discovery of some Indian 

 remains in Canada West.f "No indications," he wrote on that occasion, 

 " have yet been noticed of a race in Canada corresponding to the brachyce- 

 phalic or square-headed mound-builders of the Mississippi, although such an 

 approximation to that type undoubtedly prevails throughout this continent 

 as, to a considerable extent, to bear out the conclusions of Dr. Morton, that a 

 conformity of organization is obvious in the osteological structure of the 

 whole American population, extending from the southern Fuegians, to the 

 Indians skirting the Arctic Esquimaux. But such an approximation, — and it 

 is unquestionably no more, — still leaves open many important questions rela- 

 tive to the area and race of the ancient mound-builders. On our northern 

 shores of the great chain of lakes, crania of the more recent brachycephalic 

 type have unquestionably been repeatedly found in comparatively modern 

 native graves. Such, however, are the exceptions, and not the rule. The 

 prevailing type, so far as my present experience extends, presents a very 

 marked predominance of the longitudinal over the parietal and vertical di- 

 ameter ; while, even in the exceptional cases, the brachycephalic character- 

 istics fall far short of those so markedly distinguishing the ancient crania, 

 the distinctive features of which some observers have affirmed them to ex- 

 hibit." 



In August, 1857, Dr. Wilson read before the meeting of the American Asso- 

 ciation for the Advancement of Science, a valuable and interesting paper on 

 the Supposed prevalence of one Cranial Type throughout the American Aborigi- 

 7ies.t In this article, the mere doubt expressed a year before now becomes a 

 positive conviction, that native American crania do not belong to one type, but 

 are referrible to dolichocephalic and brachycephalic forms ; " and that a 

 marked difference distinguishes the northern tribes, now, or formerly occupy- 

 ing the Canadian area, in their cranial conformation, from that which pertains 

 to the aborigines of Central America and the southern valley of the Missis- 

 sippi ; and that in so far as the northern differ from the southern tribes, they 

 approximate more or less, in the points of divergence, to the characteristics 

 of the Esquimaux. " In the second edition of Prehistoric Man, published eight 

 years later, he concludes that '' the results of his attempts at a comparative 

 analysis of the cranial characteristics of the American races show that the form 

 of the human skull is just as little constant among different tribes or races of 

 the New World as of the Old ; and that so far from any simple subdivision 

 into two or three groups sufficing for American craniology, there are abundant 

 traces of a tendency of development into the extremes of brachycephalic and 

 dolichocephalic forms, and again of the intermediate gradation by which the 

 one passes into the other. "§ 



It will thus be seen that Desmoulins, Bory de St. Vincent, Alcide d'Orbigny, 

 Retzius, D'Omalius d'Halloy, Latham, and, more recently, Wilson, have all 

 expressed their conviction, in terms more or less emphatic, that the American 

 races are divisible, according to the form of the skull, into dolichocephalic and 

 brachycephalic groups. Retzius and Zeune have gone a step further, by re- 

 ferring the crania of these races to three distinct forms or types. According 

 to Zeune, these crania are divisible into long, broad, and high forms, corres- 



* Crania Britannica, Decade 3, p. 10. 



•f Canadiau Journal of Industry, Science and Art, Nov., 1856, p. 



% The Canadian Journal, Nov., 1857. See also Kdln. Philosoph. Journal, N. S., vol. vii. This 

 paper, enlarged and somewhat altered, constitutes chap. 21 of the first edition, and chap. 20 of the 

 second edition ot Dr. "Wilson's Prehistoric Man; and Part I of Lectures on Physical JEthnology, 

 contributed by the same author to the Smithsonian Report for 1862. 



§ Page 483. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



ponding to three similar types in the Old World ; and according to Retzius, 

 into Asiatic dolichocephalic, (Chinese,) Mongolian, and Semitic forms. Zeune, 

 in his comparative table, has indiscriminately grouped together normal and 

 artificially deformed skulls. His classification has, consequently, no ethno- 

 logic value. To Prof. Retzius is due the credit, as far as I can learn, and as 

 appears from the above chronological reference to the literature of this Bub- 

 ject, — of being the first to perceive the true ethnological import of the data 

 set forth in Crania Americana. From 1842 to I860, the year of his death, he 

 as positively opposed the doctrine of aboriginal American unity as Dr. Morton 

 zealously supported it. Dr. Wilson has indisputably confirmed the views of 

 Retzius as to the division of the American tribes into long and short heads, 

 and their consequent cranial non-unity, by means of a valuable series of com- 

 parative tables of measurements, accompanied with important critical obser- 

 vations, showing very considerable, judicious, and even enthusiastic research.* 

 Like Humboldt and Pickering, he favors the Mongolian classification of the 

 American Indian, and thinks that this classification is "borne out by many 

 significant points of resemblance in form, color, texture of hair, and peculiar 

 customs an'd traits of character."! 



From a careful examination of the Morton Collection, I am convinced that 

 the division of aboriginal American crania into dolichocephalic and brachy- 

 cephalic groups merely, is wholly inadequate to exhibit thoroughly the ethnic 

 differences whick dispart them, in some instances, quite widely. It is easy 

 to point out crania which are comparatively shorter than most of the so-called 

 long skulls ; and others again, which are longer than the so-called short-heads. 

 Such deviations fall naturally into an intermediate or mesocephalic group, 

 which differs from the two extreme classes not in length only, but in other 

 characters also. Moreover, the ethnic value of dolichocephalism and brachy- 

 cephalism, or of length as compared with heighth and breadth, is by no means 

 fully determined. This character is not always of primary importance. On 

 the contrary, it is frequently of secondary value in classification. Two or 

 more skulls may be equally dolichocephalic, and yet belong to different types 

 or forms. Compare, for example, the cranium of the typical wooly -haired 

 negro represented on page 325 of Indigenous Races, with the skull of an 

 ancient Roman, or of a Circassian, figured on pages 312 and 316, respectively, 

 of the same work. These are all dolichocephalic ; but the slightest inspection 

 shows that they belong to very different types, and that the typical or differ- 

 ential characters are located in the facial bones chiefly. In like manner, if we- 

 compare together the Ottawa and Mound skulls Nos. 1007 and 1512, which 

 are both brachycephalic, we readily perceive that the one belongs to the 

 spherical or globular form, Mud the other to the square-headed or cubical type. 

 In order to establish indisputably the cranial diversity of the American races, 

 it is obviously necessary, in view of the above facts, not only to point out 



* In his paper, read before the American Association in 1857,— a year atter Retzius had publicly 

 announced his matured views upon American crania to the Scandinavian ^sociation, and through 

 it to the scientific world generally — Dr. Wilson says: " Scarcely any point in relation to ethno- 

 graphic types is more generally accepted as a recognized postulate than the approximative homo- 

 genous cranial characteristics of the whole Ameriean race." "The stronghold of the argument 

 for the essential oneness of the whole tribes and nations of the American continents, is the sup- 

 posed uniformity of physiological, and especially of physiognomical and cranial characteristics-^, an 

 ethnical postulate which has not yet, so far as I am aware, been cal'ed into question." -fCiinadian 

 Journal, Nov., 1857, pp. 409, 416.) When these lines were written, Dr. Wilson appears not to 

 have been acquainted with the labors of Retzius in tbis field; he certainly makes no allu&ion 

 to them whatever. These statements are reproduced in 1862, in the first edition of his " Prehis- 

 toric Man," (pp. 205, 212.) and again in 18(35. in the second edition of this deeply interesting work, 

 (pp. 425, 430, 431.) In both these editions he alludes to Retzius simply as amongst those who 

 have recorded conclusions similar to his own. lie refers the reader, for the views of Retzius, to the 

 " Ar ihlves des Sciences Naturelles," published at Geneva in 1860, and, in his " Lectures on Physical 

 Ethnology," in the Smithsonian Report for 1862, p. 244, accompanies this reference with the state- 

 ment that his own views on this subject were first published by him at the meeting of the Ameri- 

 can Association iu 1857. 



t Prehistoric Man, 2d edit., p. 473. 



1866.] 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



among these races the prevalence of both dolichocephalic and brachycephalic 

 forms, but also to demonstrate the existence of different well markfid types 

 into which they may be grouped, and which can be shown to be as different 

 from each otlier as any of the distinct forms indigenous to the Old World. 

 This I have attempted to do in the ensuing pag<3S, carefully abstaining, how- 

 ever, for the present, from the expression of any opinion concerning the allied 

 but entirely distinct question of the origin and affiliations of these races. As 

 this question, in its osteological aspects, is intimately connected with the con- 

 sideration of the cranial characters of the Esquimau race, I propose, instead 

 of discussing it at present, to return to it in a future monograph upon the 

 skulls of the Polar people. 



The Human (3ranial Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, contains at the present time 575 skulls of the Aborigines of Northern, 

 Central and South America. 



The Esquimau Family is represented by thirteen specimens from Baffin's 

 Bay, Storoe, Cape Alexander, Upernavick and Godhavn. Dr. I. I. Hays, on 

 his return from the Arctic regions in 1861, brought with him 125 skulls of this 

 race. This large and very important collection he kindly placed in my care 

 for study and description, with the request that I should select therefrom and 

 present to the Academy, as his donations, those sjjecimens which appeared to 

 constitute the most suitable additions to the Museum.* Through these addi- 

 tions the Esquimau race, though occupying a region so remote and inacces- 

 sible, will be more numerously represented in the collection, than any of the 

 North American Indian tribes. 



Of the great Athapascan or Chippewyan Family, lying to the south of the 

 Esquimau area, and extending from Hudson's Bay westwardly towards the 

 Pacific Ocean, there is but one specimen in the Museum of the Academy. This 

 skull, No, 577 of my Catalogue of Human Crania, belongs, moreover, to none 

 of the tribes living in juxtaposition within the continuous area of the Athapas- 

 cas, but to a small detached band, called Tlatskanai or Klatskauai,! living in 

 the mountains south of the Columbia River, near the sea-coast. This tribe, 

 now nearly, if not quite extinct, belongs to the " Tahkali-Umkwa Family " of 

 Hale,t which is synonymous with the " Southern Athabaskans " of Latham.§ 

 It is thus classified on account of its philological affinities, which are Atha- 

 pascan. 



It is obviously impossible to determine the craniologieal relations of the 

 Tlatskanai, and through these of the Athapascas generally, by means of the 

 single cranium just referred to. This skull is artificially distorted or com- 

 pressed like the Chinook crania. The longitudinal and bi-parietal diameters 

 are nearly equal. Art has, therefore, rendered it brachycephalic. The upper 

 alveolus is quadrangular in form. 



To enumerate the various tribes of Athapascas of which cranial specimens 

 are wanting in the collection, would be to go over the entire list of these tribes 

 as now known, in view of the geographical position of this group, this is 

 much to be regretted. The Koluschians and Atiiapascans on the west of Hud- 

 son's Bay and the Algonquins on the east are the only Indians coterminous 

 with the Esquimaux. The Athapascan area borders upon the Esquimau re- 

 gion over a much greater extent of surface than that of either the Koluschians 

 or Algonquins, Among the Athapascas, the Coppermine, Dog-Rib and Hare 

 or Slave Indians come in contact with the Esquimaux as far north as the Arctic 

 circle. As they are thus exposed to the same climatic conditions it becomes 

 very important to compare the crania of these tribes with those of their para- 

 borean neighbors. The same remark applies to the northernmost of the Ko- 



*See Proceedings of the Acad. Nat. Sci., 1862, p. 601. 



-j- Called Klatstoni by Morton, who figures and gives measurements of this skull in Crania Ame- 

 ricana, plate 44, p. 210. 



X Transactions of the American Ethnological Society, vol. 2, p. 9. 

 ^The Natural History cf the Varieties of Man, p. 308. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 211 



luschian and Algonquin tribes. Unfortunately for the purpose of such com- 

 parison no specimens of the skulls of these tribes are in the possession of the 

 Academy. In other words the collection is deficient in skulls of the Kenai of 

 Cook's Inlet, the Atnahs of Copper River, the Ugalents or Ugalyakhmutzi, of 

 King William's Sound, &c., among the Koluschians ; and in the Knistinaux or 

 Crees, and the various other tribes of Algonquins who formerly occupied the 

 country between Labrador and the New England States. 



The Indians of the north-west coast are represented in the collection by 22 

 specimens, obtained from various localities in British Columbia, Washington 

 Territory, and the State of Oregon. Three of the skulls of this series, a Tsim- 

 se-ann or Chimseyan and two Nas-kahs or Naaskoks (Nos. 987, 213 and 214 

 of the Catalogue), belong to the Naas family of Hale, and are from the Naas 

 River and the region of country about Fort Simpson, in lat. 54° 40' N. Con- 

 sequently of all the Pacific coast crania in the collection they are the most 

 northern. The Chimseyan skull is a long, low head with a moderately full 

 and rounded occiput. The coronal region is flat and triangular, narrow at the 

 forehead between the external angular processes, from which it widens out to 

 a great interparietal diameter, the parietal protuberances being very promi- 

 nent. Both the Naas crania are long, oval heads with full and prominent oc- 

 ciputs. In No. 213 the occipital protuberance is prolonged into a sharp mam- 

 millated process. The next six in geographical order, (Nos. 208, 944, 946, 

 1013, 1014 and 1015), are from Puget's Sound. No. 208 is the skull of a Skwale 

 or Nisqually "Medicine Man." It is artificially flattened. The other five 

 are flattened heads, obtained by my friend Dr. Thos. J. Turner, of the U, S. 

 Navy. They probably belong, with one exception, to the Suquimmish tribe. 

 These six crania together with a Kowalitsk skull, (No. 573) from Washington 

 Territory, and a Tilamook, Killemook or Killamuck cranium (No. 576) from 

 the State of Oregon, belong to the Tsihaili-Selish Family of Hales, the Tsihaili 

 of Latham. The next two crania of this group are Klikatats (Nos. 207* and 

 461) from Washington Territory. They belong to the Sahaptin Family of 

 Hale and Gallatin. Of the Calapooya or Kalapuya tribe of the Willamette 

 Valley, Oregon, there is one cranial specimen. No. 574. There are nine Chi- 

 nook crania in the collection. Of these Nos. 462, 641, 721, 1349 and 1350 are 

 Chinooks proper. Nos. 203 and 575 are Clatsops or Klaatsops, a band of the 

 lower division of Chinooks, occupying the sandy plain at Point Adams, to the 

 south of the mouth of Columbia River. Nos. 457 and 578 should, in all pro- 

 bability, be rejected from this series. As they are not flattened nor distorted 

 in any manner, but retain the natural form, they are very likely slaves, and 

 as such belong to some other tribes. All the free Chinooks flatten their heads, 

 a.nd so highly do they value this deformity as a mark of distinction that they 

 do not allow their slaves to practise it. 



Upon this point most of the travellers who have visited the tribes of Colum- 

 bia River agree. In other respects, however, their testimony is very discrep- 

 ant. Mr. Townsend, in a letter to Dr. Morton, affirms that he ** has occasionally 

 seen both Chinooks and Chickitats with round or ordinary shaped heads, sick- 

 ness having prevented the usual distortion while young, "f This statement 

 has evidently led Dr. Morton to regard No. 578 as a true Chinook skull which 

 has not been subjected to the flattening process. *' This head," says Dr. M., 

 " difiers in nothing from that of the Indians in general, from one end of the con- 

 tinent to the other ; but it is gratifying to be able to present a perfectly natu- 

 ral skull of people among whom a round or naturally formed head is consid- 

 ered a degradation. "t Dr. Pickering assures us that as the children, whose 

 heads have been compressed, * ' grow up, the cranium tends to resume its 



* Nos. 203, 207, 208, 213 and 214 were obtained by Mr. Geo. Gibbs, who informs me that No. 207 

 is a hybrid being half Klikatat, half Nisqually. 

 ■f Crania Americana, p. :i07. 

 t Ibid, p. 208. 



1866.] 




212 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



natural shape, so that the majority of grown persons hardly manifeflt the ex- 

 istence of the practice. One effect, however, seemed to be permanently dis- 

 tinguishahle, in the mniaual breadth of face."* Mr. Hale also says: "In 

 after years the skull, as it increases, returns in some degree to its natural 

 shape, and the deformity, though always sufficiently remarkable, is le?s shock- 

 ing than at first."! Dr. Pickering declares "that slaves may in general be 

 distinguished by the head not being flattened, tliough they are careful to per- 

 form this process on their children. "J Mr. Hale, on the contrary, states that 

 " the children of slaves are not considered of sufficient importance to undergo 

 this operation, and their heads, therefore, retain their natural form." Mr. 

 George Gibbs, who dwelt for several years among the coast tribes in the capa- 

 city of Indian agent, likewise declares that "the children of slaves are not 

 allowed to flatten the skull. "§ In another place he says, "among some of 

 the Pacific tribes, compression of the head is confined to females, or is, at any 

 rate, only carried to any considerable extent among them. Slaves are some- 

 times of the same tribe with their owners, but they are more frequently pur- 

 chased from others ; and it should be noted that on the Pacific the course of 

 the trade has been from south to north. "|| This gentleman, in an interesting 

 letter to the writer, dated July 8th, 1859, suggests that " as slaves very rarely 

 if ever spring from the tribes in which they are held, and as the course of the 

 slave trade is almost always from the south to the north," the two skulls 

 above referred to, Nos. 457 and 578 most probably come from southern Oregon 

 or California. The Klamath and Shaste tribes of California, he thinks, fur- 

 nish, many slaves to the region about Fort Vancouver, while captives from 

 this region are taken still further northward from Puget's Sound as far north 

 even as the Russian possessions. In opposition to these statements of 

 Mr. Gibbs, we are informed by Mr. Townsend that among the Chinooks 

 those individuals whose skulls were not flattened during infancy, on ac- 

 count of sickness, "never attain to any influence, nor rise to any digni- 

 ty in their tribe, and are not unfrequently sold as slaves." Mr. Jas. G. 

 Swan, in his account of the coast tribes between the Straits of Fuca and the 

 Columbia River, says, "their slaves are purchased from the northern Indians, 

 and are either stolen or captives of war, and were regularly brought down and 

 sold to the southern tribes. "IT My friend Dr. Thos. J. Turner, U. S. N., who 

 spent some time at Puget's Sound, in 1856, and whom I therefore interrogated 

 upon this subject, informs me that there is a marked distinction between the 

 Indian tribes on Vancouver's Island and to the north of the Straits of Fuca, 

 and those on the southern side. The northern tribes known as Stikanes, or 

 Cowitchins, are taller, more war-like, and of a lighter color than the southern 

 Indians, and what is very remarkable, have been seen by him to blush.** In- 

 stead of compressing their heads into a disc-like shape, as the Chinooks do, 

 they give to them, by means of bandages, a conical or sugar-loaf form. Fur- 

 ther north this custom is discontinued by the men, and is confined altogether 

 to females. Dr. Turner also informs me that unaltered heads, found among 

 tribes addicted to this practice to a great degree, may safely be assumed to be 

 those of slaves, and are probably of foreign origin, either directly or ancestrally. 

 The direction of the slave trade is northward. On this account the southern 

 tribes are always in fear of their more aggressive northern neighbors. As the 



• The Races of Man; and their Geographical Distribution. By Charles Pickering, M. D., Lon- 

 don, 1851, ]). 19. 



t Transactions of the American Ethnological Society, vol. 2, p. 16. 



i Op. cit. p. 20. 



g Indigenous Races of the Earth, p. 336. 



ll Instructions for research relative to the Ethnology and Philology of America. Prepared for 

 the Smithsonian Institution, by George Gibbs, Washington, 1863. p. 3. 



% The North West Coast ; or Three Years residence in Washington Territory. By Jas. G. Swan, 

 New York, 1857, p. 166. 



**AccordiDg to Von Spix and Martins, "the Indians, properly speaking, cannot blush, and tho 

 'Eriibascit, salva res est,' cannot be applied to this unpolished race." Se« Pricbard's- Researches, 

 vol. 1, p. 271. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



flattened head in all its varieties is considered a mark of distinction among 

 these people, they are very loth to abandon it. In several instances, where 

 the *' papooses " came under medical treatment, efforts were made to induce 

 the motliers to discontinue the practice, but without avail. 



These conflicting statements show how difficult it is to determine satisfac- 

 torily whether Nos. 457 and 578 are Chinooks or not. The latter somewhat 

 resembles the Naas skull, No. 214, but is comparatively shorter and broader. 

 The former is more like the Chimseyan. If they are really Chinooks, it shows 

 that these people are naturally dolichocephalic. Judging from the deformed 

 specimens, I should suppose the heads of the Chinooks were naturally short 

 or brachycephalic. The unflattened Chinook, No. 578, is a rather short, broad 

 oval, having the vertex regularly and more highly arched, and the occipital 

 region less prominent, rather flatter in fact, than is the case in the Arickaree 

 and Assinaboiu crania. No. 457 approaches the peculiar form exhibited in a 

 Pocasset skull, presently to be reft-rred to. 



Upon a careful examination of all the cranial specimens of thes? flat-head 

 tribes of the Columbia River, I find that the distortion is not alike in all. In 

 Nos. 203, 207, 208, 461, 577, 641, 721, 946, 1013, 1014 and 1349 the compres- 

 sion has been so applied as to cause the right half of the occipital region to 

 be more flattened than the left, and, consequently, the antero-posterior diam- 

 eter of the right side to be shorter than the left. In Nos. 574 and 575 the 

 distortion is just reversed. Nos. 462, 573, 576 and 944 are almost symmetri- 

 cally flattened, and in such a manner that the coronal region forms a horizon- 

 tal plane parallel with the basis cranii. In the Kawichen skull. No. 1015, the 

 pressure has been so applied as to give to it the form of a cone or sugar-loaf, 

 causing it thereby to resemble very strongly the strangely deformed Natchez 

 crania, and the Mound Skull, No. 1242, from the ancient town of Chiuchiu, 

 near the Desert of Atacama. 



Three crania recorded in the third edition of Dr. Morton's Catalogue of 

 Skulls, as belonging to " Cotonay or Blackfoot Indians,"* differ from each 

 other sufficiently to justify the reference of them to two separate groups. 

 While Nos. 744, a male skull, and 745, a female, are decidedly dolichocephalic, 

 No. 1227, the head of a chief named the Bloody-Hand, from the upper Mis- 

 souri, occupies an intermediate place between the long and short heads. It 

 is a shorter, broader and more elevated or arched cranium. In Nos. 744 and 

 745 the occipital region exhibits the superiorly inclined or shelving parieto- 

 occipital flatness so characteristic of Swedish and Norwegian crania. The 

 occipital flatness of No. 1227 is less inclined and more vertical. In the length 

 of skull, prominence of occiput, and general shape of the coronal region, No. 



744 resembles the cast of a Norwegian skull. No. 1260, which I have in an- 

 other place already briefly described. The receding forehead, strongly marked 

 supraorbital ridges, and everted upper alveolus of the Kootenay cranium, 

 however, serve to distinguish it from the Norwegian, In general form No. 



745 resembles the Arikaree type, as that type or form is displayed in No. 649. 

 No. 1227, in the general outline of the coronal region and flatness of the occi- 

 put, resembles the short-headed Grermanic and Anglo-Saxon forms. On the 

 other hand, the strongly-marked face, the deep, massive jaw and prominent 

 maxillary alveoli of this skull are striking points of difference. In Crania 

 Americana, plate 40, Dr. Morton figures a Kootenay skull loaned to him by 

 Geo. Combe, the celebrated phrenologist. It is decidedly dolichocephalic. 

 Dr. M. has given us no description of this head, but merelv alludes to its 

 great interparietal breadth. I am inclined to think that No. 744 is really the 

 cranium from which this plate was drawn. There is not only a close resem- 

 blance in the outlines of the two, but in the skull there is a hole in the 



*The Kitnnaha or Skalsa; Kootenays, Coutanies, Arcs-en-Flat,or Flat-bows, inhabit the western 

 side of the Rocky Mou iitains, on the Flat-bow branch of the Columbia River. They are not Black- 

 feet, and though thej hunt on the Missouri, they do not live there. 



1866.] 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



middle of the right parietal bone, just above the tuberosity, exactly as repre- 

 sented in the plate. A comparison of this plate with the wood-cut of No. 1227, 

 in tlie Catalogue of Human Crania, and also in Inditjenons Races, is sufficient 

 to show that in this group of three skulls two distinct forms exist. No. 744 

 may be assigned to the kumbecephalic, and No. 745 to tlie narrow oval sub- 

 divisions of the oval form or tj'pe. Both have flat and receding foreheads run- 

 ning up to a higher point at the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures 

 or just behind this point. No. 1227 falls into the arched type. 



To the isolated or unplaced family of the Kitunaha, Coutanies or Kootenays, 

 therefore I provisionally refer Nos. 744 and 745 ; and to the Satsika or Black- 

 foot branch of the Algonquins, No. 1227. 



To tlie east of the Blackfoot country, and extending from the Saskachawan 

 River on the north southwardly to the Arkansas River, and from the Missis- 

 sippi to the Rocky Mountains, lies an important ethnological region occupied 

 by the Dacota and Pawnee Families of Indians. The latter live in two sepa- 

 rate localities, surrounded in great part by the more numerous tribes of the 

 former. 



Of the Pawnee group the collection of the Academy contains three Arikara, 

 and two Pawnee skulls. The Sioux or Dacota Family is represented by speci- 

 mens from eight different tribes, viz., Assinaboins, Minetaris, Mandans, Dako- 

 tas or Sioux's proper, Upsarookas or Crows, Osages, Ottoes, and the isolated 

 tribe of Winnebagos living on the western shore of Lake Michigan. 



Three female Arickaree skulls from the upper Missouri, (Nos, 649, 949, 748) 

 belong to the dolichocephalic class. The coronal region in No. 649 is oval 

 and rather flat, the vertical diameter, therefore, rather small ; the occipital 

 protuberance quite prominent, as in the Cimbric and Swedish crania in the 

 collection, and the upper half of the occipital region flat and shelving like 

 that of the Swedes ; the forehead low, superciliary ridges very small, malar 

 bones not very prominent ; ossa nasi quite incurvated. The basis cranii of 

 No. 649 exhibits some approach to the kumbecephalic form of Prof. Wilson. 

 No. 949 exhibits the same general characters, but is fuller in the frontal re- 

 gion, and has a less prominent occipilal protuberance. The same remarks 

 apply to No. 748. In the homoiocephalic comparison of the old and new 

 worlds, these Arickaree skulls may be fairly regarded as the American repre- 

 sentatives of the Swedish crania. 



The two skulls in the collection marked Pawnee are remarkably discrepant 

 in form. One of them. No. 1043, is most probably an Arickaree cranium. 

 The other, No. 540, is a female head from the Platte River. It is figured in 

 Crania Americana, plate 38. In this skull the forehead is sufficiently de- 

 pressed, to cause the posterior part of the head to be higher than the anterior. 

 From the coronal suture, the median longitudinal line, coinciding with the 

 sagittal suture, curves regularly and evenly round to the upper edge of tho 

 osoccipitis. Hence the posterior region cannot be called flat, although at the 

 first glance it appears so, in consequence of the prominence of the occipital 

 boss. If the line of the crown is continued evenly to the base of the skull, so 

 as to cut off the occipital protuberance, it will then be seen that the posterior 

 region is full and round. This is not the case in No. 1043, also female, which 

 is a longer head with a much more prominent occipital boss. The basis oc- 

 cipitis of this skull is flat, somewhat like that of the Minetaris, while the basis 

 cranii exhibits a long cimbriform outline instead of the round one presented 

 in No. 540. In fact No. 1043 resembles the Arickaree forms in many respects ;, 

 and should, I think, be classified with this group. It differs from them, how- 

 ever, in such minor particulars as the form of the alveolar arch, breadth of 

 upper maxilla, &c. 



To the dolichocephalic group must also be assigned the Minetaris or Gros- 

 ventres of Missouri. The oblong coronal region of the four cranial specimens 

 of this tribe in the collection resembles that of the Arickarees and Assina- 

 boins. The most elevated point of the crown is in the middle of the sagittal 



fMay, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



suture, a little anterior to a line drawn through the parietalia from one emi- 

 nence to the other. The posterior region of the parietalia slopes downwards 

 and backwards to the irregular and lozenge-shaped occipital protuberance. 

 The basal portion of the occipital bone is remarkably flat, — nearly horizontal, 

 in fact, — and the cerebellar fossae quite shallow. This peculiarity is well-marked 

 in all the specimens composing this group. This feature and the prominent 

 occiput give to the Minetari skull the appearance of being pinched or drawn 

 out behind. This is particularly the case in No. 746. The low crown, flat 

 sides and base of these skulls give them an angular, obleng or box-like ap- 

 pearance. The specimens of this group, three of which are females, and the 

 fourth a male, are remarkably alike. 



Three Assinaboin skulls, also from the upper Missouri, (Nos. 659, 1230, 1231) 

 are larger than the Arickarees, as shown by their greater internal capacity. 

 They are more massive and roughly marked, and in general present more of 

 the rude Indian character. They are broader between the parietal bosses 

 than the Arickaree heads ; and, consequently, have a less narrow, and some- 

 what differently shaped coronal region. The contour of the latter slightly ap- 

 proximates the Germanic form. The occiput in No. 659, a male skull, is equally 

 protuberant, more massive and flat in the upper part, and the nasal bones less 

 incurvated than in the Arickarees. These features are not so well marked in 

 Nos. 1230 and 1231. It will thus be seen that No. 659 difi"ers more from the 

 Arickarees than Nos. 1230 and 1231, but the two latter, like the Arickaree 

 specimens, belong to the female sex. Upon the whole, the base is not so long 

 and narrow. 



The Mandans of the upper Missouri are a long-headed people. The general 

 form of their skulls resembles very closely that of the Arickarees and Assina- 

 boins. This is very well shown in Nos. 643, 644, 738 and 742 ; of which the 

 first three are females, and the last a male. In No. 739, a female skull, tke 

 occipital protuberance is not so fully developed, but the posterior interparie- 

 tal diameter is greater. The coronal contour, consequently, undergoes some 

 change. In a male skull, No. 740, the broader coronal region is more oblong 

 than oval. In No. 741, also a male skull, the greater elevation of the breg- 

 matic region gives to that skull the arched or upsicephalic form presently to 

 be described. No. 738 closely resembles the Kootenay skull. No. 745. 



No. 204, the skull of a Dacota or Sioux Indian, belongs to the Creek type, 

 as exhibited in No. 1454, though the occiput is a little more prominent, and 

 the head slightly longer and narrower. Its form is transitionary from the 

 broad oval of the Assinaboin skull. No. 112, the head of a Dacota child, is 

 markedly dolichocephalic, with an occipital region like a shelving roof. No. 

 605, the skull of a Dacota or Sioux Indian from Wisconsin, somewhat resem- 

 bles the Chetimache type, as the reader will perceive at a glance, by compar- 

 ing plates 3 9 and 39 of Crania Americana. The truncation of the occiput is 

 confined entirely to the upper part of the os occipitis and is but slightly marked. 

 Indeed the posterior region taken as a whole is full and rounded or globular 

 like that of the Pawnee skull, No. 540. These two heads, in fact, resemble 

 each other closely, so that it is difficult to say whether both be Pawnees or 

 both Dacotas. They certainly appear to belong to the same tribe. Dr. Mor- 

 ton speaks of having once seen in Philadelphia, in 1837, twenty-six chiefs 

 and braves of the Sioux nation. "Every man of them," says he, " had a 

 broad face, high cheek bones, the large Roman nose expanded at the nostrils, 

 a wide but low forehead and flat occiput." 



The Osages are brachycephalic, as is particularly shown in No. 54, in which 

 the coronal region is almost round like that of the true Germanic head, and 

 the occiput perpendicularly flattened. This skull, which is that of a young 

 warrior named the Buffalo Toil, from Arkansas, is figured by Morton in Cra- 

 nia Americana^ plate 41. The face is large and rude, the malar bones mas- 

 sive, and the alveoli prominent ; but the forehead is less recedent than in 

 many of the Indian crania. The skull belongs to the angularly round or 



1866.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



square-headed Gothic type. No. 650, from the upper Missouri, is an older 

 and longer head, inclining rather to the Swedish form. It is not a Braohyce- 

 phalus, but occupies a position intermediate between tlie long and short heads. 

 The Ottoes of tlie upper Missouri belong partly to that intermediate form 

 which I have designated iu the preceding pages as the arched tyi)e, and partly to 

 the short-headed groups. Tlie oblong crown in No. 755 is considerably elevated 

 at the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures. The occipital region is 

 full, broad and round, and not llattened. These skulls all incline to the brachy- 

 cephalic type. Indeed No. 756, wliicii may be said to represent the Calmuck 

 form, and No. 758, should be classed among the short heads. No. 758, the 

 head of a young child, though longer, has a vertically flat occiput. 



The Upsarookas or Crow Indians of the upper Missouri are long-heads. The 

 two skulls of tliis tribe in the collection are males, and resemble each other 

 very closely. They are long, oval crania ; the upper part of the occiput pro- 

 tuberant and lozenge-shaped ; the face long, the ossa nasi high, and the depth 

 of the upper alveolus so considerable as to give a peculiar osteological expres- 

 sion to tlie face not easily described. 



Of the Winnebagos, one. No. 559, is a short, angularly round head ; the 

 other. No. 5G0, is of an oblong form. In No. 559 the slight posterior flatness 

 is confined entirely to the upper part of the os occipitis. In No. 560 the oc- 

 ciput is more protuberant, and the base and crown longer than in No. 559. 



Of the great and widely extended Algonquin Family, the Museum of the 

 Academy contains 79 skulls of 21 different tribes. These tribes are the Mas- 

 sasaugas or Missiosigees, and the Chippewas of Upper Canada, the Penobsoots 

 of Maine, the Mohegans of Connecticut, the Narragansetis and Pocassets of 

 Rhode Island, the Naumkeags of Massachusetts, the Naticks of Nantucket, 

 the Lenni-Lenapes or Delawares of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, &;c. ; the Nan- 

 tiookes of the Wyoming Valley ; the Ottawas, Menominee? and Pottawotomies 

 of Michigan ; the Sauks, Ottigamies and Illinois of Illinois and Wisconsin ; the 

 Miamis of Indiana ; the Shawnees and Mingos of Ohio ; the Shyennes of Mis- 

 souri, and the Blackfeet. 



The Iroquois family is represented in the collection by 13 crania of Mo- 

 hawks, Oneidas, Senecas, Cayugas and Hurons. The former habitat of these 

 tribes was the country around and between Lakes Huron, Erie and Ontario, 

 in the heart of the Algonquin area. Of the southern Iroquois the collection 

 contains not a single specimen. 



The Massasauga cranium, (No. 27,) of upper Canada, is a decidedly dolicho- 

 cephalic head with a protuberant occiput, a moderately elevated coronal re- 

 gion, and an oval base. In its general form it resembles the Arickaree 

 skulls. 



The Penobscot skulls may also be classed with the Dolichocephali. They 

 are narrow and rather long, with a regularly oval crown. The occipital region 

 is rather narrow, but not fjat, being smoothly rounded ; the elevation of the 

 crown about the middle of the sagittal suture, by increasing the vertical diam- 

 eter, slightly approximates this skull to the arched type. These remarks par- 

 ticularly apply to No. 89, an Indian of the Gepepscot tribe of Maine. No. 105 

 is very similar to it, but being fragmentary, and of uncertain locality, it need 

 not further occupy our attention, 



A Mohegan or Mohican skull of the Quinnipiaok tribe, (No. 26), is broad and 

 globular with a rounded occipital region. It occupies a position intermediate 

 between the long and short heads and approaches the Mongol form, as that 

 form is exhibited in the Calmuck, Cossack and Burat crania. 



A Focasset cranium (No. 1036) is comparatively short with a flattened oc- 

 ciput and triangular coronal region. It strongly resembles the Narragansett 

 head, No. 693, and should probably be grouped with this specimen. 



The Narragansetts of Rhode Island are dolichocephalic. The ten skulls 

 representing this tribe in the collection are not equally elongated. On 

 the contrary, Nos. 693, (male,) 953, (female,) and 956, (nualej are much 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



shbrter, and may be said almost to belong to the Brachycepbali. No. 693, the 

 fac simile of the Pocasset skull just referred to, is a peculiar head. The coro- 

 nal region is irregularly oblong ; the head widens out backwards from the 03 

 frontis, attaining its greatest width between the parietal centres of ossification. 

 Moreover, the low receding forehead slants upwards to the same interparietal 

 diameter. The broad posterior region slopes downwards to the foramen mag- 

 num, as if pressed under the overhanging parietalia. Nos. 950, (female,) 951, 

 (male,) 954, (female,) 957(male)and 1040, (female,) are oblong heads, having 

 for the most part the superior occipital flattening seen in Swedish crania, and 

 also the protuberant occipital process, which is of the usual size and appear- 

 ance in Nos. 950 and 954, and forms a very large triangular knob in No. 951, 

 projecting in a straight line beyond the inferior and posterior edges of the 

 parietalia, as in the Swedish skull. No. 1249. In No. 957 the protuberance 

 disappears, or is very much softened down, in consequence of the cone-like 

 manner in which the whole posterior region converges to a blunt point. The 

 basal surface of the occiput is non-symmetrically flattened, the right half be- 

 ing pressed up towards the parietals more than the left. This flattening is 

 probably posthumous. In No. 955 we have another instance of this appa- 

 rently posthumous deformity. The highest point of the vertex in No. 957 is 

 at the anterior fontanelle. In No. 1040 the protuberance of the occiput over- 

 hangs the basal portion like a ridge. In this skull is also exhibited the basi 

 occipital flatness which, as we have just seen, characterizes the Minetari 

 skulls. No. 952 is asymmetrical, the right half being a little shorter than 

 the left. No. 953 belongs to the arched type. A slight flatness is observable 

 in the posterior, inferior part of the parietalia, but the occipital bone curves 

 regularly round to the foramen magnum without any flatness whatever. The 

 same remarks apply to No. 956. Nos. 953 and 957 are remarkably prognathic. 

 In No. 953 the prominence of the maxillse gives to this skull a negro-like ap- 

 pearance. 



A Naumkeag skull (No. 567) from Salem, Massachusetts, is a long, narrow 

 oval head with a projecting occiput, and a high coronal region which is dis- 

 tinctly carinated. 



Five Natick skulls from Nantucket, upon the whole, appertain rather to a 

 form intermediate between the Dolicho- and Brachycepbali, than to either 

 one of these classes. The elevated vertex and but moderately prominent oc- 

 ciput give to No. 103 the arched form. No. 104 is a longer head, with a 

 flatter crown and a more protuberant occiput. No. 107 is an oblong, dolicho- 

 cephalic head. In No. 110 the upper part of the hind head is flat, and the 

 protuberance of the occiput lozenge- shaped. 



The Natick and Narragansett skulls may be said to represent the woolly- 

 haired African form. 



The Lenape or Delaware Indian skulls in the Academy's collection, also 

 fall, for the most part, into the dolichocephalic class. With the exception of 

 Nos. 205, 206 and 1263, they are long, though not strikingly narrow heads. 

 The general outline of the coronal region resembles that of the Arickarees, 

 Assinaboins, Cherokees and Iroquois, —occupying a place in fact between the 

 latter two. The occipital boss, though protuberant, is less so than in the 

 Arickaree, Assinaboin and Cherokee heads. The occipital region is superiorly 

 flattened. The upper jaws are more salient than in the heads already de- 

 scribed, amounting in the female skull, No. 40, as shown in Crania Americana, 

 plate 32, to negro-like prognathism. No. 1263 may be regarded as a Brachy- 

 cephalus. In consequence of the posterior, interparietal diameter being 

 greater than the frontal, the contour of the coronal region differs from that of 

 the others of this group, and resembles that shown in some of the German 

 skulls, especially No. 706. The posterior region is broad and perpendicularly 

 flattened. The coronal outline of No. 1265 resembles in some respects that of 

 No. 1263. Nos. 205 and 206 dug up from a street in Philadelphia, and sent 

 to the Academy as Delaware Indians, are very similar in form to Nos. 1263 



1866.] 




218 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and 1265. They appear to bo very old. The ten specimens composing this 

 whole group appear to belong to a form or type of skull differing in many re- 

 spects from those to which most of the heads already alluded to belong. 

 Nos. 40 and 115 are narrow ovals ; Nos. 118 and 418 maybe classed in the 

 same jrronp, but they approach the arched type by being higher. They are, 

 indeed, transitionary in form to Nos. 1264 and 1265, which are still more 

 elevated in the coronal region. The form again changes in No. 1263, which is 

 shorter, has a triangular crown and a flatter and broader occiput, and is 

 arranged therefore among the short heads with vertical occiputs. 



The Nanticoke head (No. 1219) is a broad, low skull, with a full rounded 

 occiput. It resembles somewhat. No, 2<), the Quinnipiack or Mohegan cranium. 



The form of the Mingo skull (No. 455) is a long oval, with a broadly oval 

 crown and base, and a prominent occiput. 



The Ottawas of Michigan may be partly referred to the arched type. No. 

 1007 is brachycephalic. It is a broad, low and round head. A greater pro- 

 minence of the occipital boss in Nos. 1006, 1008 and 1009, causes these three 

 skulls to depart somewhat from this type and approach the Swedish form. I 

 have consequently placed them in the dolichocephalic division. 



The cranial specimens of the Menominees of Michigan, in the collection, differ 

 from each other in their general configuration not a little. No. 35, the cra- 

 nium of a female, resembles the Pocasset skull above referred to, — a skull 

 the principal characters of which are a recedent forehead, a relatively broad 

 posterior, interparietal diameter, and a flatly-rounded occiput. No. 563, 

 also a female head, resembles No. 35, but is rather less recedent in the 

 forehead, has a broader base, and a fuller and broader occipital region. No. 

 78, a male skull, is a long head, with protuberant occiput, the protuber- 

 ance flattened vertically, and the lower and posterior parts of the parietalia 

 flattened like an inclined plane. The median longitudinal line of the crown, 

 in consequence of the more expanded forehead, approaches an oval figure. A 

 fuller forehead, less prominent occiput and higher bregmatic region gives to 

 No. 44, (a female head,) the arched form. The contour of the coronal region 

 of No. 1220 is a broad, rounded oval. The posterior region is full and rounded. 

 In No. 1222, a Menominee chief, the crown is a longer oval, the line of the 

 sagittal suture more arched, and the occipital protuberance well pronounced. 

 No. 454, figured by Morton in Crania Americana, is a short, round and asym- 

 metrical head, with a fuller frontal region and a less flat occiput than we find 

 in the others. It has a Germanic crown. 



Two male Chippewa or Ojibway skulls in the collection (Nos. 683, 684,) 

 belong to the Dolichocephali. In the general form of the calvaria they re- 

 semble Swedish crania. They difi"er from the latter, however, in other re- 

 spects, particularly in the face, which, singularly enough, in its osteological 

 expression is very like the face of the Chinese skull. In this respect No. 684 

 (Chippewa) resembles No. 94 (Chinese) not a little. 



Among the Miamis of Indiana we again encounter the dolichocephalic type. 

 No. 542, the skull of a chief, (plate 30 of Crania Americana) is in many re- 

 spects like the G-erman heads in the collection, especially those from Tiibin- 

 gen, Frankfort, Berlin, &c. It is less full in the forehead, and more promi- 

 nent about the middle of the sagittal suture. It has the Swedish occiput. In 

 the whole series, except Nos. 541, 1055, 1058 and 1233, the outline of the 

 crown forms a more or less rounded oval. In No. 1055, a female skull, this 

 outline approaches the angular Gothic form, which is still better displayed in 

 Nos. 1058, a young child, and 1233 also a female head, and is characterized 

 by a disproportionate breadth between the parietal protuberances. No. 541 

 is a narrow, oblong head. No. 106 approaches the arched type. In all the 

 specimens the forehead is quite well developed ; and in most of them the 

 upper part of the occiput is slightly flattened. In Nos. 1058 and 1233 the flat- 

 ness is nearly vertical. 



In the two Illinois skulls the occipital region is wanting. No. 1010 evidently 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



belongs to the mesocephalic form. No. 1051^ is a Mound skull. It was found 

 in 1848, in a tumulus on the Blue River, Illinois. Enough of the parietals 

 has been preserved to show that the posterior region was flattened and that 

 the head should be placed among the Mesocephali. 



The Ottigamies or Fox Indians, of Illinois and Wisconsin, belong to the short- 

 heads. Nos. 639 and 694, both male skulls, strongly resemble the angularly- 

 round or square form. The outline of the coronal region is nearly a rounded 

 square. The occiput is almost vertically flat. No. 209 differs from these 

 two in having a less wide sinciput. No. 415, a half-breed, is a long head with 

 a retreating forehead, a broad crown and the Swedish form of occiput. 



The Pcttawotomies of Michigan are Dolichocephali. No. 657 (plate 34 of 

 Crania Americana) is a rude, massive, male skull, "remarkable," as Dr. 

 Morton has observed, " for its capacity behind the ears, and for the great 

 length and flatness of the coronal region." The apparent flatness of the crown 

 is in part due to the angular prominence of the parietal bones at the anterior 

 third of the sagittal suture. The forehead is low ; the posterior region large, 

 broad and angular, with no very decided or marked flatness. In No. 737, a 

 male skull, the crown is broader in proportion to its length than in No. 657, 

 and less flat ; the posterior region round and full. The parietal bones at the 

 anterior portion of the sagittal suture are less prominent than in No. 657. No. 

 1322, a young Potawatomie warrior, varies from the others in being narrower 

 and having a somewhat more prominent os occipitis. The face reminds me 

 of the Chinese physiognomy. 



No. 736, the cranium of a young child, is brachycephalic, with a flat occiput 

 and bulging parietalia. 



The Sac or Sauk Indians may be called long- heads. In No. 561 the crown 

 is oblong ; the highest point at the junction of the coronal and sagittal su- 

 tures. The upper part of the occiput is irregularly lozenge-shaped and pro- 

 minent, the basal portion rather flat. No. 1246 is a rudely carved and mas- 

 sive head, almost vertically flattened behind. The lower part has somewhat 

 the appearance of being pressed underneath towards the foramen magnum. 



Two of the three skulls in the collection, marked Shawnee, are dolichoce- 

 phalic, the other is brachycephalic. They are of uncertain history and locality, 

 however, and cannot be relied upon as genuine representatives of this tribe. 

 No. 606 is a long, narrow, oval head, resembling the Pawnee and Arickaree 

 forms. No. 691, a remarkably inequilateral skull, belongs to a very different 

 form. The whole head is broader, and the posterior region flattened almost 

 entirely to the right of the median line. No. 1210, like No. 606, is a long, 

 narrow head ; the median, longitudinal line of the crown slightly carinated 

 after the fashion of the Eskimau skulls. The posterior region is broader and 

 more protuberant than in No. 606, while the elevation of the vertex causes 

 the skull to approximate the arched form. 



A Shyenne skull, (No. 1041), from Fort Williams, Arkansas river, belongs 

 to the arched form. The superior alveolus is prominent, while the back of 

 the head shelves downwards and backwards like an inclined plane. This 

 cranium resembles the Chippeway (No. 684) and Blackfoot (No. 1227) heads. 

 No. 939, also a Shyenne, from the neighborhood of Fort Kearney, differs some- 

 what from the preceding. It is less highly arched, the occipital region is less 

 prominent, and the crown more triangular and broader between the parietal 

 protuberances. 



The Iroquois skulls in the collection are Dolichocephali. They may be 

 classed very appropriately with the Cherokees. No. 16, exhumed near Lake 

 Erie, closely resembles No. 632. The occipital region is flattened superiorily. 

 No. 989 is probably not an Iroquois skull, though so marked. Its form differs 

 very much from the others. These three crania, though grouped with the 

 oval forms, occupy in reality an intermediate place between the oval and 

 arched types. 



1866.] 



■ Erroneously numbered 1042 in the Catalogue 




220 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Of thrrte Mohawk skulls exhumed near Manheim, in New York, two are long- 

 heads, (Noa. SS)5, 89(j), and one (No. 897) is intermediate in form between 

 the long and short-headed groups. They may be said to belong to the arched 

 form. They are shorter, broader and rounder in the base than the Cherokees, 

 Arickarees, Assinaboins, Minetaris, Iroquois, &c., but less round than the 

 Creeks, Chotimacihes, &;o. The posterior region is full, and the occipital pro- 

 tuberance though well developed, is not so prominent a feature as in some 

 of the long heads. 



The Oneida skull (No. 33) exhibits the arched form. It is a long, narrow 

 head with a long, narrow face and small cheek bones. 



The Seneca cranium (No. 1516) belongs to a peculiar variety of the same 

 general form, but is broader, and has fuller frontal and occipital regions, and 

 a broader base. Both it and the Oneida are long heads. Occipital region 

 rather flat. 



The skull of Wan-yun-ta, a Cayuga Chief, (No. 417), is a very long, narrow, 

 oval head, somewhat kumbecephalic, with a prominent occipital protuberance. 



The Huron crania belong partly to the Brachyephali, and partly to the 

 Mesocephali. No. 15, the head of a Huron Chief, killed near Detroit, is a 

 massive, strongly marked and brutish skull. The forehead is flat and re- 

 ceding : the superciliary ridges very prominent ; superior maxilla everted ; 

 lower jaw ponderous and flared out at the angles after the manner ot the typical 

 Eskimau skull ; malar bones projecting ; ossa nasi much incurvated ; junction 

 of parietal bones ridged or keel-like ; skull rather narrow ; occipital pro- 

 tuberance pretty well marked ; anterior bregmatic region elevated, giving an 

 arched outline to the whole head ; occipital flatness in the upper part of the- 

 posterior region. In its general configuration, as viewed laterally, it resem- 

 bles the Creek and Chetimache skulls, but difiers from them in greater eleva- 

 tion of crown. This coronal elevation is shown also in the other three skulls 

 in this group, (Nos. 607, a female, from Cleveland, Ohio, 1217 and 1218, also 

 female, from Detroit), which all exhibit this arched form, except No. 1217, 

 which is nearly round. They are all short heads. Nos. 607 and 1218 have 

 the Swedish form of occiput ; the shelving, however, is not well marked, and 

 the occipital protuberance not very prominent. In No. 1217 the occiput 

 is flattened both above and below the protuberance. The whole posterior region 

 is here broad and flat. 



Thirty-five crania from eight diflferent tribes have been contributed to the 

 collection from the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida 

 and the Southern part of Tennessee ; or, in other words, from that section of 

 the United States comprised between the Cumberland River and the Grulf of 

 Mexico, and the Savannah and Sabine rivers. These tribes are the Cherokees, 

 Muscogees or Creeks, Yamassees, Seminoles, Uches, Choctaws, Natchez and 

 Chetimaches. 



There are six Cherokee skulls in the collection. Of these two, (Nos. 632, 634) 

 belonged to women, and two (Nos. 633, 635) to young girls, while two ancient 

 crania from the mounds in South Carolina (Nos. 1285, 1297) are males. 



No. 632, found "in a cave at Springtown, Polk Co., Tennessee, north of the 

 river Hiwassee, and near an ancient battle-ground," is a beautifully formed 

 female head, petat 20 years. It is regularly and symmetrically oval. The 

 forehead, though low, rises evenly and gradually from the nasal suture »p 

 towards the coronal region, which region slopes away as gradually and is lost 

 in the flattened and shelving upper half of the occiput, below which appears 

 the regularly and smoothly protuberant occipital prominence. The head is a 

 long, narrow oval, and belongs to the Dolichocephali. The base is long and 

 narrow, the face small, and the nasal bones moderately prominent, with a 

 rather sharp line of junction. It is a better formed head than the Assinaboin 

 and Arickaree skulls. The Arickaree approaches it more nearly than the 

 Assinaboin. No. 633, a Cherokee girl, setat 14 years, which was found with 

 the preceding, has the same general characters, but is not so regularly oval 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



in contour. The nasal bones are flatter, and the superior maxillary more 

 prominent. The latter bone, singularly enough, somewhat resembles that of 

 a .Japanese skull in the collection. The rest of the head is, however, very 

 different. In No. 634, a woman, setat 20, the receding forehead rises much less 

 regularly and more abruptly towards the vertex. The posterior region as a 

 whole is fuller and rounder, in consequence of the protuberance of the occipital 

 bone being less prominent, and the shelving and flattening of the upper part 

 not so great. The base is fuller posteriorly and less narrow than that of No. 

 632, approaching in this and some other respects the two Mound heads, 

 presently to be noticed. No. 633 may, in fact, be regarded as intermediate in 

 form and characters between these Mound heads and No. 632. In the characters 

 just mentioned, the two Mound heads (Nos. 1285, 1297) exhibit some difi"er- 

 ence. The whole head is larger, has a higher internal capacity, and is very 

 roughly marked, the prominences and depressions being particularly well 

 developed. The coronal region is oblong instead of being oval, the forehead 

 flatter, the superciliary ridges strongly displayed, the nasal bones small and 

 incurvated, the alveolar margin of the superior maxillary prominent even to 

 prognathism, malar bones heavy, protuberant and rough ; occipital region 

 flatly protuberant, the flatness hot being confined to the upper part, but 

 ascribable to the whole occipital region, a feature mainly due to the greater 

 prominence of the superior and anterior portion of the ossa parietalia, the 

 diminished inclination of the posterior part of these bones, and the flat surface 

 presented by the occipital protuberance. The base behind the meati is very 

 broad, the mastoid processes large and heavy, and the lower jaw massive and 

 deep at the symphysis. Still these heads are Dolichocephali. 



The crania ot the Greek nation exhibit the same peculiar type to which the 

 Chetimache skull belongs, and of which it may be regarded as the standard. 

 No. 441 (Creek warrior from Alabama) is brachycephalic. No. 579, the skull 

 of Athlrtha-Ficksa, a full-blood Creek Chief, is somewhat longer, flatter on the 

 top, and less round. Concerning this head, Dr. Morton thus writes : "The 

 broad but low forehead, and the width between the parietal bones, are highly 

 characteristic in this head: a front view is given of it, in order to convey an 

 accurate idea of the osteology of the Indian face.* Thus we see the large and 

 projecting cheek-bones, an arched and prominent bridge of the nose, powerfully 

 developed jaws and remark ibly perfect teeth. The distance between the eyes 

 is even preater than is usual, yet the orbits themselves are not large in propor- 

 tion." No. 751, a Creek woman of Georgia, is a long, oval head with a pro- 

 tuberant occipital boss, and a superiorly flattened occipital region, approxi- 

 mating in some respects the Kimbric skulls in the collection. In No. 1454, a 

 Creek Indian skull of Western Arkansas, the type again varies. The occipital 

 region as a whole is greatly protuberant, yet this prominence is gradually lest 

 in the median line of the crown. In an equally gradual manner the forehead 

 and the sides blend with the coronal region, the most elevated point of which 

 is in the anterior part of the sagittal suture. 



The specimens in the collection constituting the Seminole group vary not a 

 little from each other. Some are long, and others short. No. 456 (plate 24 of 

 Crania Americana) is a round, high, almost globular head, peaked at the junc- 

 tion of the coronal and sagittal sutures. No. 604 (plate 22 oi Crania Ameri- 

 eaiia) is a longer head, whose full length I find, upon examination, is not fairly 

 shown in the first wood-cut on page 166 of Crania Americana. For the head 

 is more symmetrical, the flatness of the posterior region being more decided 

 on the left than on the right side. It is from the shortened side that the wood- 

 cut is taken. The increased length of the head appears to be mainly due to 

 the very protuberant os occipitis. The crown is less elevated than in the pre- 

 ceding skull. No. 698 is a moderately long and oval head and is more highly 



* See Crania Americana, plat* 26, for a facial view, and the figures on p. 170, for lateral, coronal 

 and posteriur views of this skull. 



1866.] 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



arched. A slight prominence of the sajjittal suture is observed about one inch 

 posterior to the coronal. No. V07 is a shorter skull, and has a full, high fore- 

 head, a regularly arched crown, and an occiput full and rounded. No. 708 

 resembles (i98, as do also Nos. 727, 729, 730, 732, 733, 753,* 1105 and 1286. 

 All these are long, oval-shaped heads, with a more or less narrow and promi- 

 nent occiput, and the coronal region regularly arched antero-posteriorly ex- 

 cept in No. 730, in which it is flatter. Nos. 726, 728 and 754 are not quite 

 so long; the occipital regioTi is also broader aud less prominent. All the above 

 specimens are from different parts of Florida. It will thus be seen that in this 

 group there are at least two if not three distinct types : a short, high form, to 

 which Nos. 456 and ^04 belong, and a long and more or less oval form, which 

 includes all the others. 



The three ancient Yaraassee skulls, from a mound near Tampa, in Florida, 

 in which they appear to have lain upwards of a century, are all long, narrow 

 and high skulls, belonging to what I call the arched type. They may, in fact, 

 be taken as the standard of this type. In Nos. 1214 and 1215 the outline of the 

 crown is oval ; in No. 1216 the oval outline is interrupted by the greater breadth 

 between the parietal tubers. 



Two Chetimache skulls, (Nos. 43, 70), one male and the other female, belong 

 to the brachycephalic class. They were exhumed from a cemetery in the 

 Parish of St. Mary, in Louisiana, and were considered by Morton as genuine 

 skulls of the Chetimache tribe. They are angularly round heads, with a 

 recedent forehead, elevated vertex, perpendicularly flattened occiput, and 

 striking breadth between the parietal bosses or ossific centres. The form of 

 these crania is, in many respects, peculiar. It belongs, as far as the general 

 contour goes, to the great short-headed class, in which are arranged the Ger- 

 mans, Finns, Laplanders, Kalmucks, Sclavonians and Turks. But from each 

 and all of these it differs in several respects. The outline of the coronal region 

 resembles a truncated spherical triangle, the base of which coincides with 

 the posterior biparietal diameter. In this respect these heads resemble some 

 of the German crania in the collection. But the latter differ from the former, 

 in the relation which the longitudinal diameter bears to the vertical. In the 

 general globularity of the posterior region, and the proximity of the foramen 

 magnum to the back of the head, the Chetimache cranium resembles the 

 Finnic, Sclavonic and Turkish types, but differs from them in the more 

 recedent and proportionately less broad forehead, which latter feature makes 

 the vertex appear more prominent. Of No. 70, the larger of the two heads 

 under consideration, the reader will find in Crania Americana^ an excellent 

 lithograph,' (plate 19,) together with the following observation from the pen 

 of Dr. Morton : — " The nearly vertical occiput, the great height of the skull, 

 and the size and strength of the bones of the face, are not surpassed by those 

 of any Indian cranium I have seen," (p. 163.) 



The young female Choctaw skull (No. 22) is a large, oval, high head with a 

 prominent occiput. 



The Euchee cranium (No. 39) is a comparatively short head, with a full, 

 rounded occipital region. In its general form it resembles the Slavic skull. 



The collection embraces 26 miscellaneous crania obtained from the mounds 

 in Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio, Tennessee and Florida. 



No. 416 is an Indian skull taken from a mound seated on the high bluff 

 which overlooks the Mississippi river, one hundred and fifty miles above the 

 mouth of the Missouri. Morton describes it as " a large cranium, very full in 

 its vertical diameter, and broad between the parietal bones. "f It is a good 

 example of what I am disposed to call the arched type. It is dolichocephalic. 

 In its general arched form it resembles the Creek skull, No. 1454. The coronal 

 region closely resembles that exhibited by the Cherokee skull, (No. 634), 



* Erroneously numbered 1556 in the printed Catalogue. 

 t See Crania Americana, p. 221. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



already described. There is a difference, however, in the basis cranii, No. 

 416 having a much greater interraastoid diameter. 



No. 1237 is the skull of an Indian woman exhumed near Fort Chartres, 

 Illinois. It is brachycephalic and closely resembles the Chetimacbe skull, No. 

 43. The two skulls undoubtedly belong to the same great type. Their calvarial 

 outlines are very much alike ; though No. 1237 has a somewhat fuller and less 

 recedent forehead. They have the same shaped orbits and anterior nares, 

 the same small and incurvated ossa nasi, and the same prominence of the 

 superior alveolus. In No. 1237 the bony palate is narrower, and the super- 

 ciliary ridges are more strongly marked. The bases craniorum are alike. 



No. 1315, the skull of an aboriginal American female, found in a saltpetre 

 cave at Golconda, Illinois, belongs to the arched type. It may be ranked with 

 the Dolichocephali. It has a decidedly prognathous, superior alveolus. 



No. 1510, male Indian skull taken from an ancient mound in Illinois, belongs 

 to the same type as the Pocasset cranium already referred to. It is a longer 

 and much old-er head than No, 1315 ; is more rudely formed, and has the face 

 projecting further forward, in consequence of the prognathic upper jaw. 



No. 1511, an Indian cranium found with the preceding, belongs to the same 

 type, but is not so long, and has a flatter and more recedent forehead, and a 

 broader and somewhat shorter face. 



On p. 235 of Crania Americana, Dr. Morton informs us, that " in the month of 

 May, 1835, a cavern cemetery was discovered on the bank of the Ohio river, 

 opposite to Steubenville. * * * The bones contained therein appear to have 

 been deposited at different periods of time, those on the top being alone in good 

 preservation. They were of all ages, and thrown in indiscriminately after the 

 removal of the flesh ; for it is well known that some tribes were accustomed 

 to gather, at times, all the bones of their deceased relatives, and place them in a 

 common receptacle. Of the great number of skulls found in this place but few 

 were perfect ; of which last I have received eight. These heads are thoroughly 

 characteristic of the race to which they pertain. They bear no evidence of 

 great age, and no doubt belonged to individuals of the barbarous tribes. Some 

 have thought them Mingoes, who were affiliated to the Iroquois ; but the form 

 of the head does not support this surmise. * -" * * All these skulls are 

 surprisingly alike — the vertex elevated, the occiput flat, the parietal diameter 

 very great, and the lower jaw massive. They are also of singularly large 

 capacity, and in this respect approach nearer to the Sauks and Foxes, and the 

 Muskogees, than to any other tribes that have come under my notice. The 

 mean internal capacity gives upwards of 85 cubic inches, and the facial angle 

 rises 78 degrees. The anterior chamber gives 38-3 cubic inches, the posterior 

 49-2 ; but notwithstanding the proportion of the former, there can be lit le 

 doubt that these skulls belong to the savage tribes, and not to the Toltecan 

 stock." 



Of the above skulls, Nos. 420, 436, 437, 438, 658 and 723 resemble each other 

 very closely. They are all, with the exception of No. 438, asymmetrical. This 

 want of symmetry is due to a remarkable flattening of the occipital region, on the 

 left side in Nos. 436 and 437, and on the right in Nos. 420, 658 and 723. There 

 is, consequently, a striking want of correspondence between the antero- 

 posterior or longitudinal diameters of the two sides in each skull. Nos. 438 

 and 724 are flatter in the crown, and have, therefore, a shorter vertical 

 diameter. All the specimens of this group may be assigned to the same 

 cranial type as exhibited in the Chetimache skull. No. 43. Id the Mound skulls, 

 however, the calvarial region is flatter, and has therefore less of the arched 

 form than the Chetimache crania. The occipital region in the former is also 

 broader and flatter. There are facial differences likewise. Nos. 439 and 210 

 are longer, narrower, more oval and without the occipital flatness. They pre- 

 sent nothing of the arched form. In No. 723 the narrowness of the os frontis, 

 the wall-like flatness of the occipital region, and the lowness of the crown 

 combine to produce a singularly triangular form. 



1866.] 




-24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



No. 53, from a mound at Circlevllle, Ohio, ia a long-head. In general form 

 it is like the Hlnckfoot cranium No. 1227, but has a more prominent occiput. 



No. 1287, from a mound at (yhilicothe, Ohio, very closely resembles the 

 Pocasset skull, from which it differs by being somewhat broader. It occupies 

 a position intermediate between the long and short heads. No. 1288, found 

 in the same mound, is a long boat-shaped head with a very protuberant occipital 

 boss. 



No. 1512, from a mound in the Scioto Valley, Ohio, is a brachycephalic skull. 

 Of this cranium Dr. Morton thus wrote : " This is, perhaps, the most admirably- 

 formed head of the American race hitherto discovered. It possesses the 

 national characteristics in perfection, as seen in the elevated vertex, flattened 

 occiput, great interparietal diameter, ponderous bony structure, salient nose, 

 large jaws and broad face. It is the perfect type of Indian conformation, to 

 which the skulls of all the tribes from Cape Horn to Canada more or less ap- 

 proximate. Similar forms are common in the Peruvian tombs, and have the 

 occiput, as in tbis instance, so flattened and vertical as to give the idea of 

 artificial compression ; yet this is only an exaggeration of the natural form, 

 caused by the pressure of the cradleboard in common use among the American 

 nations." 



No. 992, from a mound in Tennessee, resembles No. 1512. It is asymmetrically 

 flattened. It is a short head, with a flat wall-like occiput and a triangular crown. 

 The forehead and whole crown, indeed, are narrower than in No. 1512. It is just 

 such a form as we might suppose the Pocasset type would take if pressed 

 behind. 



No. 1271, from a mound near Huron river, Ohio, is a short head with an al- 

 most vertically flat occiput. No. 1272, found with the preceding, is a longer and 

 more oval head, with a more rounded occipital region. 



No. 1270, from Detroit, is a long, narrow, oval head, resembling, in general 

 form, the Arikaree skulls. 



No. 1455, from a mound in Florida, is artificially flattened in such a manner 

 as to resemble somewhat the Chinook or Charib skulls. 



No. 212, the casi of a Kenhawha skull, is a short head with a vertical 

 occiput. 



No. 1557, from the banks of the Susquehanna river, is a long, oval head 

 with prominent parietal and occipital protuberances. 



No. 215, from South Carolina, is brachycephalic. It belongs to the globular, 

 Mongolic form. No. 216 is a long head, as are also Nos. 218 and 219. 



No. 134 is a long, narrow, oval and high head, with a prominent occiput. 

 Nos. 136 and 146, from Warren county, Pennsylvania, are both dolichocephalic. 



No. 135, found on the brow of a hill about two miles below Trenton, New 

 Jersey, is a long, asymmetrical head. It is probably the skull of a Delaware 

 Indian. The supraorbital ridges are more prominent, however, than in the 

 specimens of the Delaware group. This feature is also exhibited in the frag- 

 ment, No 249, found in the same locality. 



The collection contains four Californian skulls. No. 1514 is the crf^nium of 

 a California Indian, from a mound near Sacramento City. It is a dolicho- 

 cephalic bead ; long and flat; the forehead narrow and low. The calvaria 

 widens out posteriorly to the parietal tnbers ; the most elevated part of the 

 vertex is on a line f'oiaciding with the greatest interparietal diameter. The 

 posterior part of the parietal bones shelves down to the prominent upper 

 part of the os occipitis. The base is long and oval. The face of this skull is 

 wanting. 



No. 1565 is a fragmentary Indian skull, thickly encrusted with carbonate of 

 lime. It was found in a cave in Vallecita, Calaveras Co., California, along 

 with 300 other human crania, all embedded in limestone. It has the same 

 general appearance and conformation as the preceding skull. The occiput is, 

 however, more prominent, and the contour of the more angular crown ap- 

 proaches a lozenge-shaped oval. The calcareous incrustation extends, in some 

 places, to the depth of an eighth of an inch. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



In the south-western part of the North American continent lies an extensive 

 tract of country designated by Prichard, Latham and other systematic 

 ethnologists as the Paduca area. This ethnological region extends, according 

 to Latham, from the Pacific ocean, in a south-eastwardly direction, to the 

 Gulf of Mexico; from the water-system of the river Columbia to that of 

 the Sabine river, and from north of 45° N. L., to south of 25° S. L. It is 

 occupied by numerous, imperfectly known and unclassified tribes to whom the 

 term Paduca has been applied provisionally. The tribes of this group repre- 

 sented in the collection are the Shoshonis or Diggers, Utahs, Moquis, Apaches, 

 Navajos, Lipans, Camanches, and that race of people which, though seem- 

 ingly now extinct, once formed the numerous population of the large towns, 

 long since in ruins, such as Quivira, Abo, Guaira, Pecos. &c. 



The Shoshoni, or Root-Digger skulls, three in number, vary in form. No. 1446, 

 obtained on the Trucky river, in the California mountains, belongs to a peculiar 

 form or type of which examples have already been pointed out in thePocasset, 

 NarragansettP and other tribes. It is, however, a broader skull. The crown ap- 

 proaches the triangular form ; the forehead is rather broad and flat. The whole 

 crown rises up to a sort of eminence situated between the parietal bosses. The 

 occipital region is broad and rather flat, the basis cranii broad and rounded, Nos. 

 144*7 and 1449 are long heads. They differ in the form of the crown, which in 

 No. 1449 is along, regular oval, but in No. 1447 is flat and broad posteriorly 

 between the parietal tubers. No. 1449 resembles somewhat the Arickaree form\ 

 in both the occipital region and the basis cianii. No. 1447, in consequence of a. 

 greater projection of the occiput, exhibits the supero-occipital flatness of the: 

 Swedish form. 



Of this group Dr. Morton thus wrote : " Two of these skulls are so small,, 

 so receding in the forehead, and so depressed over the whole coronal region, 

 that they could not, by intrinsic evidence alone, have been identified with any 

 branch of the aboriginal American race. They want the vertical occiput and: 

 general rounded form of the Indian head, and have a narrowness of the face 

 unusual wiih these people."* 



No. 1448, from the Eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada, and recorded in the 

 catalogue as pertaining to none of the Shoshoni tribes, is a large, massive, 

 heavy head, rudely developed. In the median line the crown runs back to an. 

 elevation similar to that seen in the Potawatomie skull (No. 657) figured by 

 Morton; from this prominence descends a broad and almost perpendicularly 

 flat occipital region. Hence, when viewed in profile, the skull has a quad- 

 rangular appearance. This ponderous head, which Dr. Morton termed " the 

 very type of Indian conformation," differs decidedly from Nos. 1447 and 1449, 

 and resembles No. 1446. * 



In November, 1855, Dr. Thomas J. Turner, while at Mare Island, California, 

 dug up two skulls which he supposed to be those of Digger Indians. They 

 were buried under a mass of calcined shells, some seven feet below the sur- 

 face. One of these crania. No. 1027, is that of a female in all probability, 

 and is the facsimile of the Shoshoni skull No. 1449. It is a long, narrow head 

 with an oval occiput. The other skull. No. 943, is a long, high head, differ- 

 ing considerably from No. 1027 and all the specimens grouped in the catalogue 

 as Shoshonees. Nos. 1446 and 1448 should evidently be classed together as 

 belonging to one tribe, while Nos. 1447, 1449 and 1027 clearly belong to an- 

 other group. 



The skull of a young Utah girl (No. 140) is dolichocephalic, with prominent 

 occipital and parietal protuberances, and a rhoraboidal crown. 



Two Moqui crania, Nos. 138 and 139, are small, non-symmetrical heads. 

 Both have the posterior region flattened ; the one slightly, the other decidedly. 

 No. 138 exhibits the shelving, parieto-occipital flatness; the other, No. 139, 

 has the back of the head almost vertically flattened. No. 139 is brachycepbalic; 



1866.] 



* Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sei., vol. ir. p. 76. 



15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the other may be said to be mesocepballc. In No. 138 the occipital protuber- 

 ance is well marked ; in No. 131) this protuberance is nearly obliterated. 



Three crixnia from Quivini and Quart a, New Mexico, (Nos. 1032, 1033 and 

 1034), are brachycephalic. The occiput in all is more or less liattened, but 

 most decidedly in No. 1032. 



A Pueblo cranium (No. 930) is dolichocephalic with shelving occipital flat- 

 ness. Another Pueblo skull (No. 037) is short, high, and non-symmetrical. 



A skull from Santa Fe (No. 031) is a short, asymmetrical and occipitally 

 flattened head. 



No. 134(>, the skull probably of an ancient tribe of Lipan Indians, from the 

 celebrated, sepulchral cavern of Bolson de Massimi, between San Sebastian 

 and San Lorezo, in the State of Durango, New Mexico, is a long, oval head 

 with a very prominent occiput. No, 1345, the cranium of a modern Lipao, is 

 shorter and has a somewhat more rounded occiput. 



The skull of a very young Apache child (No. 141) is dolichocephalic, and in 

 its general form very much like the Utah cranium, No. 140. No. M5, the skull 

 of a Mescalero Apache Indian, from the Desert of Black Hills, Texas, recently 

 added to the collection, is a long oval and very symmetrically formed head, with 

 protuberant occipital and parietal protuberances. It also resembles No. 140. 

 No. 1035, the skull of a Mescalero Chief, is an oblong, barrel-shaped head with 

 a rounded occiput and broad base. No. 935, a Mogoyon Apache, is a long, 

 high head, very broad between the mastoid processes. No. 936, the cranium 

 of a Navajo Indian, is a long, ponderous, broadly oval head with a broad base, 

 a broad, high and almost vertical forehead, and a flattened posterior region. 

 In its general form it resembles somewhat Nos. 1446 and 1448 of the Shoshoni 

 group. 



No. 247 is the skull of a Camanche Indian, supposed to be that of " Yellow 

 Wolf," head chief of his nation. It was found in a very conspicuous tomb, in 

 a large Indian burial ground, on the head-waters of the Colorado River, near 

 the deserted Fort Phantom Hill, Texas. It is a dolichocephalic cranium, of the 

 arched type. 



No. 34, a Mexican Indian from Acapancingo, eighteen leagues south of 

 Mexico, and referred by Morton to the Tlahuica tribe, is a dolichocephalic, 

 prognathic female skull. 



No. 734, a male skull exhumed near the Indian village of Guahapan, on the 

 mountain Popocatapetl, is mesocephalic and broadly oval. No. 735, a female 

 skull found with the preceding, is a long head of the arched type. These two 

 crania were regarded by Dr. Morton as probable examples of the ancient Aztec 

 nation. 



Three skulls from an ancient (femetery at Otumba differ in form; Nos. 714, 

 a male, and 716, a female, are dolichocephalic. The first, however, forms a 

 broad oval, while the second belongs to the arched type. No. 715 is brachy- 

 cephalic and globular. 



Nos. 717, 718 and 720 are ancient Mexican crania from Tacuba. The first 

 belongs to the arched, the second to the cubical, and the third to the broadly 

 oval type. The first two have pyramidal faces. No. 718 is brachycephalic and 

 carinated also. Nos. 717 and 720 are dolichocephalic. 



The Otomie skulls are, for the most part, dolichocephalic. No. 1323, the 

 cranium of. Vicente Rivaz, an Ottomie Cazique of the pure Mexican race, is a 

 narrow oval in form. No. 1001 is arched. No. 1002 is phoxocephalic, with a 

 very protuberant occiput. 



No. 1004, the skull of an ancient Mexican of the TIascalan nation, is bra- 

 chycephalic and globular. 



No. 1005, a woman of the Chechemecan nation is mesocephalic and arched. 



No. 681, ajlexican woman of the Pames tribe, is intermediate between the 

 long and short heads, and is phoxocephalic. Another female skull of the same 

 tribe, No. 1313, is a broadly oval dolichocephalus. 



No. 1314, exhum^^ ^^^^ ^^ ancient cemeterv at Cerro de Quesilas, near the 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 227 



city of Mexico, and regarded by Dr. Morton as a relic of the genuine Toltecan 

 stock, is a raesocephalic, male skull, with a broad and flat vertex. It resem- 

 bles somewhat the Maya cranium referred to below. 



Nos. 682, 234, 1353 and 1566 are brachycephalic and cubical. No. 1515, a 

 modern Mexican Indian cranium, is intermediate in length and phoxocephalic. 



Nos. 1347, 555, 557, 558 and 689 are dolichocephalic and broadly oval. No. 

 556 is also dolichocephalic, but belongs to the arched type. It has a mam- 

 millated occipital protuberance. 



The skull of a Maya Indian of Yucatan, No. 990, is dolichocephalic, and 

 broadly oval, with a very flat crown and prognathic jaws. 



The Araucanian female crania, Nos. 651 and 652, are long, broadly oval 

 heads. The sides ani occipital region being slightly flattened and not rounded, 

 give a certain angularity or squareness to these hends, — afeature which is 

 more marked in another female skull of this group, No. 654, on account of the 

 very flat vertex. No. 655, a male cranium, is a longer oval, with a somewhat 

 more prominent occipital region. No. 656, a female skull, resembles some- 

 what the form exhibited by the Pocasset head. No. 995, also a female, has a 

 higher vertex, and is more protuberant in the upper half of the occipital 

 bone. No. 997, a male skull, exhibits the arched type. Nos. 221 and 222 are 

 arched like the Yamassee skulls. 



The only unflattened Charib skull in the collection, No. 692, is a long, 

 moderately high and broadly oval skull. No. 638 and a cast. No. 225, though 

 compressed or flattened heads, evidently belong to the Dolichocephali, 



The Brazilian crania are all dolichocephalic. The Tapuyo skull. No. 1254, is 

 a large, long and broadly oval cranium. Three other Brazilians, Nos. 1513, 

 1528 and 1529 are long, oval heads more or less prominent behind. The 

 Guaycuru skull No. 1530 is also long and oval in form, with a prominent 

 occiput. Nos. 1555 and 1556, two Gentoo skulls from the Purus River, a tribu- 

 tary of the Amazon, are small, oval dolichocephalic crania. 



The collection contains a cast of the skull of a Patagonian, and 

 another of the head of a Puelche girl. The former. No. 1357, (of which No. 

 226 is a duplicate), is large, long and cylindrical or barrel-shaped in form. 

 The latter, No. 1359, is a high, short and broad head with a flat, occipital 

 region. 



Of the 245 Peruvian cra&ia belonging to the Academy's collection, 50 are 

 dolichocephalic and 168 brachycephalic; while the remaining 27 fall into the 

 mesocephalic or intermediate class rather than into either of these two ex- 

 tremes. To the elongated or dolichocephalic form belong all the specimens 

 from Arica enumerated on pages 76, 77 and 78 of my Catalogue oj Human Crania, 

 together with nine others from the same locality, added to the collection since 

 the publication of the catalogue. These skulls are artificially distorted, and 

 are referrible to one or another of the grotesque forms exhibited in plates 2, 3, 

 4 and 5 of the Crania Americana, The Arica skull, No. 932, is brachycephalic. 

 To the long-headed class belong also the following, viz: Nos. 415, 1048, 1417 

 and 1445, from Pisco; No. 231, from Lima; No. 11, an ancient Chimuyan, from 

 Truxillo ; No. 637, a Quichua of upper Peru; No. 1517, a child from Payta ; 

 No. 232, from Atacames ; the casts (Nos. 700, 701, 702, 703, 704, 705, 710 and 

 711) of ancient Peruvian crania from Titicaca, Coracolla, Pomete and Chim- 

 gauge ; and Nos. 940, 941 and 942 from the ruins of old Callao. In Nos. 1048, 

 1417 and 231, we again meet with examples of the narrow, oval form or type ; 

 in Nos. 1445, 11,232, 940 and 942, of the broad oval ; and in Nos. 637, 1517 and 

 941, of the upsicephalic or arched form. 



Ninety-three skulls from Pachacamac are Brachycephali ; eleven others, 

 Nos. 402, 409, 571, 631, 696, 1453, 1457, 1462, 1467, 1489 and 1499, are meso- 

 cephalic. Of these latter, Nos. 571, 631, 696, and 1499, may be referred to the 

 arched form. Had the process of growth and development not been inter- 

 fered with in No. 76 by artificial means, this skull would have been a broadly 

 oval Dolichocephalus. In the brachycephalic group must also be arranged all 



1866.] 




228 PROCEEDINOS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the crania from Pisco, except three — Nos. 445, 1048 and 1445 — which are 

 dolichocepliali ; and four — Nos. lOGl, 1326, 13G9 and 1423 — which are raeso- 

 cephuli and all referrible to the arched form. Anolher series of Peruvian crania, 

 collected at Paracas Bay by Dr. Turner, (Nos. 1298, 1273,1274, 1275, 1303, 

 1304, 1305, 1025 and 1026, none of which are recorded in my printed Cata- 

 logue)^ belong likewise to the Mesocephali and to the phoxocephalic group of 

 the arched form or type. All the skulls from Santa are brachycephalic, as are 

 also all from Lima, except No. 231, which is a long-head, and No. G8, which is 

 a broadly oval mesocephalus. No. 451 is alsomesocephalic and arched. Nos. 

 1518, from Payta, 1046 from Guamay, 447, 448 and 233 from Callao are 

 brachycephalic. 



From the above statements it will be seen that among the Peruvian crania in 

 the Academy's collection the Brachycephali are greatly in numerical excess 

 over the long and middling long-heads. As regards their type or ethnic form 

 they may all be placed in the kubicephalic or square-headed group. 



As a summary of the more prominent facts recorded in the preceding pages, 

 and in order to exhibit as distinctly as possible the leading differential charac- 

 ters of the American Indian crania contained in the museum of the Academy, 

 I have constructed the following tables, and attempted therein to classify these 

 crania according to their length as compared with their heighth and breadth, 

 and according to their general ethnic forms or types. Grouping them in this 

 manner is essentially preliminary to comparing them with corre?ponding groups 

 of skulls of the old world. Such a comparison I purpose to institute in a future 

 monograph to be devoted to the consideration of the large collection of 

 Esquimau skulls referred to above. 



In the first table the American races represented in the collection are 

 grouped in accordance, for the most part, with the philological arrangement 

 or classification of Latham, while their crania are arranged in dolichocephalic 

 mesocephalic and brachycephalic classes. In the second table these skulls are 

 classified with especial reference to the more prominent of the ethnic or typical 

 forms exhibited by the entire series. This classification must not be regarded, 

 however, as rigidly accurate. It is provisional only, as all such classifications 

 must necessarily be, and subject; therefore, to future revision. Large as is the 

 collection of American skulls now under consideration, it is, nevertheless, ex- 

 ceedingly defective. With the exception of the Pernvians and, next to these, the 

 Seminoles and Esquimaux, the specimens representing the different tribes are 

 but few in number,and of the identity of some of these I am not yet perfectly satis- 

 fied ; moreover there are many well-known tribes and races of which the collec- 

 tion contains not a single cranial specimen. Though the collection is not 

 sufficiently diversified to exhibit all the probable cranial forms of the aborigi- 

 nal Americans, it is ample enough to show that among these people there are 

 long, short and intermediate heads divisible into pyramidal, oval, cylindrical, 

 arched, wedge-shaped, flat, globular, cubical, prognathic and other forms, all 

 as different from each other as are the distinct types of the old world. In as- 

 signing the skulls to these typical groups or classes I have experienced the 

 usual difficulty in locating the transitionary or aberrant forms, which are 

 always, in large collections, more or less numerous, and which often effectually 

 obliterate all sharply-draw lines of demarcation. Future examinations and 

 comparison may cause these transitionary specimens to be transferred from, 

 groups in which I have at present placed them toothers; but this transposition 

 though it may ultimately lead to the establishment of other type?, can in no case 

 diminish the stability of those which I have just indicated. These groups, by 

 means of the intermediate forms, graduate into or blend with each other, and 

 we are thus admonished here, as in other departments of natural history, of 

 nature's eternal enigma of a certain undefinable, serial unity pervading and 

 CO ordinating an endless diversity of forms. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



Table I. Classification of Aboriginal American Crania according to length. 



I. DOLICHOCEPHALI. 



Long skulls more or less 

 oval; with more or less 

 protuberant occiputs. 



II. MeSOCEPHALI; 



Skulls intermediate in 

 length, with broadly 

 oval, triangular or 

 quadrangular crowns : 

 the occiput generally 

 rounded or raiher flat. 



III. Brachycephali. 



^hort skulls with round- 

 ed base, and globular, 

 or more or less verti- 

 cally flattened occi- 

 puts. 



Esquimaux, Nos 1558, 

 1559, 1560, 1561, 1562, 

 1563,674,675,676,677, 

 678, 679, 200. 



Chimseyan, No. 987. 

 Naas, Nos. 213, 214. 

 Chinooks (?), Nos. 457, 

 578. 



A. Esquimaux Group, 



B. Athapascan Groiip. 

 I I 



C. North-west Coast Group. 



Kootenays, Nos. 744, 745. I 



Pawnee, No. 1043. 

 Arikaras, Nos. 649, 748, 

 949. 



Minetaris, Nos. 650, 746, 



747, 749. 

 Assinaboins, Nos. 659, 



1230, 1231. 

 Mandans, Nos. 643, 644, 



738, 739, 740, 741, 742. 

 Dacotas or Sioux, Nos. 



204, 112. 



Aubsarokes, Nos. 1228, 



1229. 

 Winnebago, No. 560. 



Massasauga, No. 27. 

 Penobscots, Nos. 89, 105. 



Narragansetts, Nos. 950, 

 951, 952, 954, 955, 957, 

 1040. 



D. Kootenay Group. 



E. Pawnee Group. 

 Pawnee, No. 540. 



F, Dacota Group. 



Dacota, No. 605. 

 Osage, No. 660. 

 Ottoes, Nos. 755, 757. 



G. Algonhin Group. 



Quinnipiak Mobegan, No. 



26. 

 Pocasset, No. 1036. 

 Narragansetts, Nos. 693, 



953, 656. 



Tlatskanai, No. 577. 



Nisquallj, No. 203. 

 Suquimraish, Nos. 944, 



946, 1013, 1014. 

 Kawichin, No. 1015. 

 Kowalitsk, No. 573. 

 Killeraook, No. 576. 

 Klikatats, Nos. 207, 461. 

 Kalapuya, No. 574. 

 Chinooks, Nos. 462. 641, 



721, 1349, 1350. 

 Klatsops, Nos. 203, 575. 



Osage, No. 54. 

 Ottoes, Nos. 756, 758. 



Winnebago, No. 559. 



1866.] 




230 



PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Naumkeajr, No. 507. 

 Naticks, Nos. 104, 107, 



110. 

 Lenni-Lennpes or Dcla- 



wares, Nos. 40, 115, 118,' 



418, 12G4, 1265, 135, 



13G, 140. 

 Nanticoko, No. 1219. 

 Mingo, No. 455. 

 Oltawas, Nos. 1008, 1009 

 Menominees, Nos. 44, 78, 



1220, 1222. 

 Chippewas, Nos. 083, 684. 

 Mianiis, Nos. 100, 407, 



541, 542, 1052, 1053, 



1054, 1055, 1050,1057. 



Ottigamie, (half-breed,) 



No. 415. 

 Pottawotomies, Nos. 057, 



737 1322. 

 Sauks', Nos. 501, 1240. 

 Shawnees, Nos. 000, 1210. 

 Shyennes, Nos. 939,' 1041. 



Iroquois, Nos. 10, 119, 



989. 

 Mohawks, Nos. 895, 890. 

 Oneida, No. 33. 

 Seneca, No. 1510. 

 Cayuga, No. 417. 

 Huron, No. 007. 



Cherokees, Nos. 032, 033, 

 034, 035, 1285, 1297. 



Choctaw, No. 22. 

 Creeks, Nos. 751, 1454. 

 Seminoles Nos. 098, 707, 

 708, 727, 729, 730, 732, 



Naticks, Nos. 103, 401. 

 Lenni-Lenapo, No. 998. 



Ottawa, No. 1000. 

 Menominees, Nos. 35, 454. 



Miamis, Nos. 1058. 1233. 



733, 753, 

 1286. 



754, 1105, 



Shoshonees, Nos. 1447, 



1449, 943, 1027. 

 Utah, No. 140. 



Pueblo, No. 930. 



Blackfoot, No. 1227. 

 H, Iroquois Group. 



Hurons, Nos. 15, 1218. 

 I. Cherokee Group. 



J. Choctaw Group. 



Creek, No. 579. 

 Seminoles, Nos, 604, 720, 

 728. 



K. Unclassified Group. 

 Yamassees, Nos. 1214, 



1215, 1210. 

 Euchee, No. 39. 



L. Paduca Group. 

 Shoshonees, Nos. 1440, 

 1448. 



Moqui, No. 138. 



Lenni-Lenapog, Nos. 205, 

 200, 1203. 



Ottawa, No. 1007. 

 Menominee, No. 563. 



Ottigamies, Nos. 209, 039, 



094. 

 Pottawotomie, No. 736. 



Shawnee, No. 691. 



Huron, No. 1217. 



Creek, No. 441. 

 Seminole, No. 450. 



Chetimaches, Nos. 43, 70. 

 Natchez, Nos. 102, 1100. 



Moqui, No. 139. 

 Pueblo, No. 937. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



231 



Lipiiiig, Nos. 1345, 1346. 

 Apaches, Nos. 141, 145, 



935, 1035. 

 Navajo, No. 936. 

 Oamanche, No. 247. 

 Tlahuica Mexican, No. 34. 

 Aztec ? No. 735. 

 Mexicans (Otumba,) Nos! 



714, 716. 

 Mexicans (Tacuba,) Nos. 



717, 720. 

 Mexicans (Otomie,) Nos. 



1323, 1001, 1002. 



Fames Mexican, No. 1313. 



Modern Mexicans, No?. 

 1347,555,556,559,558, 

 722. 



Aztec ? No. 734. 



Chechemecan, No. 1005. 

 Fames Mexican, No. 681. 

 Ancient Mexicans, Nos. 



1226, 1314. 

 Modern Mexican, No. 



1515, 



M. 



Santa Fe, No. 931. 



Ancient Tribes of New- 

 Mexico, Nos. 1032,1033, 

 1034. 



Mexican (Otumba,) No. 



715. 

 Mexican, No. 718. 



Tlascalan, No. 1004. 



Mexicans, Nos. 

 1353, 1566. 



682, 234, 



Mound Group, 



216, 

 218, 219, 416, 'l270, 

 1272, 1288, 1315, 1510, 

 1511, 1514, 1557, 1565. 



N. Central and South American Group 

 Maya, No. 990. 

 Charibs, Nos. 225, 638, 



692. 

 Brazilians, Nos. 1513, 



1528, 1529. 

 Tapuro, No. 1254. 

 Guaycuru, No. 1530. 

 Gentoos, Nos. 1555, 1556. 

 Araucanians, Nos. 221, 



222. 



Nos. 211, 212, 215, 420, 

 436, 437, 438, 658, 723, 

 992, 1237, 1512, 1455 



Patagonian, No. 1357. 

 Peruvians — 



From Arica, 29 crania. 

 " Pisco, Nos. 415, 

 1048, 1417, 1445. 

 From Lima, No. 231. 

 " Payta, No. 1517. 



" Atacames, No. 

 232. 

 From Callao, Nos. 940. 



941, 942. 

 From Titicaca, Cora- 

 colla, &c., 8 casts. 

 Chimuyan, No. 11. 

 Quichua, No, 637. 



1866.] 



Araucanians, Nos. 651, 

 652, 654, 655, 656,995, 

 997. 



Peruvians — 

 From Arica, 



No. 932: 



" Pisco, 4 crania. 



From Lima, No. 68. 



" Paraccas Bay, 9 



crania. 

 From Pachacamae, 11 



crania. 

 Of unknown origin, No. 



451. 



Araucanian, No. 120. 



Puelcbe, No. 1359. 

 Peruvians — 



From Pisco, 55 crania. 

 " Paciiacamae, 93 

 crania. 

 From Santa, 8 crania. 

 " Lima, 5 crania. 



From Payta, No. 1518. 



Guamay, No. 



From 



1046. 

 From Callao, Nos 



448, 233, 132. 

 Of unknown origin. 



447. 




23! 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Table II. Classification of Aboriginal American Crania according to their Ethnic 



Forms. 



A. Pyramidal or Pyramidocephalic^ Form. 



General Characters: Dolichocephalic; calvaria carinated and pyramidal; 

 face lozenge-shaped and broadest below the orbits. 



Esquimaux, Nos. 1558, 1559, 1560, 1561, 1562, 1563, 674, 675, 676, 677, 678, 

 679, 200. 



B. Oval or OoidocephalicI Form. 



• 



General Characters. Chiefly dolichocephalic ; vertex and base of the skull 

 more or less oval in outline. This oval generally regular, sometimei rhom- 

 boidal or angular ; sometimes long and narrow, som^-times rather short and 

 broad. Occipital region more or less full and prominent; occasionally very 

 much elongated. Occipital protuberance sometimes knob-like, sometimes 

 acuminated. Posterior portion of the ossa parietalia shelving downwards and 

 backwards like an inclined plane ; a portion of this plane sometimes formed by 

 the upper half of the occipital bone. Forehead moderately well developed in 

 breadth and heighth. 



Subdivisions. 1. Cymbfcephalic or boat-shaped form, in which the occiput is 

 exceedingly protuberant. 2. Narrow oval form. 3. Broad oval form. 4. 

 Barrel-shaped or cylindrical form. 5. Angularly oblo.ng form. 6. Artificially 

 elongated form. 



I. Cymbecephalic Form. * 



Arickaree, No. 649. 

 Cherokee, No. 632. 

 Miamis, Nos. 1052, 1053, 1054, 1055, 



541. 

 Kootenay, No. 744. 

 Lenni-Lenap^, No. 40. 

 Mandan, No. 738. 

 Seminole, No. 733. 



Minetaris, Nos. 650, 746. 

 Creek, No. 751. 

 Dacota, No. 112. 

 Pawnee, No. 1043. 

 Cayuga, No. 417. 

 Narragansett, No. 951. 

 Mound skull, No. 1288. 



II. Narrow Oval Form 



Arickarees, Nos. 748, 949. 

 Mandans, Nos. 643, 644. 

 Cherokees, Nos. 633, 634, 635. 

 Kootenay, No, 745. 

 Naas, No. 214. 



Lenni-LenapeSjNos. 115, 118, 418, 1264, 

 1265. 



Miamis, Nos. 1056, 1057. 



Iroquois, Nos. 16, 119, 989. 

 Minetaris, Nos. 747, 749. 

 Narragansetts, Nos. 950, 952, 954, 955. 

 Chocta, No. 22. 

 Lipan, No. 1346. 

 Peruvians from Pisco, Nos. 1048,1417. 



(Stenocephalic.)J 



Peruvian from Lima, No. 231. 

 Gentoos, No. 1555, 1556. 

 Penobscot, No. 105. 

 Seminoles, Nos. 727, 729, 730. 

 Shawnee, No. 606. 

 Massasauga, No. 27. 

 Upsarookas,Nos. 1228, 1229. 

 Illinois, No. 1010. 

 Mowhawks, Nos. 895, 896. 

 Natick, No. 107. 



Shoshones, Nos. 943, 1027, 1449. 

 From the Mounds, No. 1270. 

 Miscellaneous, Nos. 13*4, 218, 219, 1557. 



•}• Hoy, Eitfo?, Y.i<^aKyi. 



% 2t6vc?, K8<f)aX;>. 



2 These five crania form the transition to the arched form. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



233 



III. Broad Oval Form. (Eurycephalic.)^ 



Assiaaboins, Nos. 659, 1230, 1231. 



Naas, No. 213. 



Mandans, No=<. 739, 740, 742. 



Menomiiiees, Nos. 78, 1220, 1222. 



Miami, No. 407. 



Pottawotomie, No. 737. 



Winnebago, No. 560. 



Chinook, (normal form,) No. 578. 



Chimsejan, No. 987. 



Creek, No. 579. Shorter and more 

 broadly ovhI than the Assinaboins, 

 between which and the brachyce- 

 phalic Creek skull. No. 441, it forms 

 the transition. 



Ottoe, No. 757. 



Ottawa, No. 1008. 



Seminoles, Nos. 754, 708. 



Utah, No. 140. 



Pueblo, No 930. 



Apaches, Noa. 141, 145. 



Lipan, No. 1345. 



Peruvian from Pisco, No. 1445. 



Chimuyan, No. 11. 



Peruvian from Atacames, No. 232. 



Peruvians from Callao, Nos. 940, 942. 



Peruvian from Lima, No. 68. 



Naticks, Nos. 104, 401. 



Sauks, Nos. 561, 1246. 



Mingo, No. 455. 



Dacota, No. 204. Departure from As- 

 sinaboins. Stands between it and 

 the Creek skull. No. 1454. 



Ottigamie, (half breed,) No. 415. 



Shyenne, No. 939. 



Euchee, No. 39. 



Crtlifornians, Nos. 1514, 1565. 



Miscellaneous, No. 216. 



Maya, No. 990. 



Tapuro, No. 1254. 



Guaycuru, No. 1530. 



Charibs, Nos. 638, 692. 



Araucanians, Nos. 651, 652, 654,»655. 



Brazilians, Nos. 1513, 1528, 1529. 



IV. Barrel-shaped or Cylindrical Form. (Cylindricephalic.)f 



Patagonian, No. 1357. 

 Narragansett, No. 1040. 



Apache, No. 1035. 



Shoshone, No. 1447. 



V. Angularly Ohlong Form. 



iNatick, No. 107. 

 VI. Artificially Elongated Form. 

 Peruvians from Arica, 29 crania. I Peruvians from Titicaca, Co^ocoUa, 



* &c., 8 casts. 



C. Arched or Hypsicephalic:|: Form. 

 General Characters. Generally dolichocephalic ; high or vertically elevated 

 Bkulls. Forehead high ; vertex or coronal region sometimes curving from the 

 glabella to the occipital protuberance, so as to form a more or less regular 

 arch, as in the Archencephali ; sometimes running up to an elevated point at 

 the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures as in the Fhoxocephali. 



I. Archencephali.^ 



Seminoles, Nos. 707, 726, 1286. 

 Shoshone, No. 1448. 

 Seneca, No. 1516. 

 Pottawotoraies, Nos. 657, 1322. 

 Oneida, No. 33. 

 Cherokees, Nos. 1285, 1297. 

 Chippewas, Nos. 683, 684. 

 Blackfoot, No. 1227. 

 Shawnee, No. 1210. 

 Huron, No. 607. 

 Ottawa, No. 1009. 

 Naumkeag, No. 567. 

 Moqui, No. 138. 

 New Mexico, No. 1033. 



Menominee, No. 44. 



Osage, No. 660. 



Penobscot, No. 89. 



Mounds, Nos. 416, 1315, 210, 439, 1272, 



53. 

 Minsi (Lenape,) No. 998. 

 Narragansett, No. 953. 

 Araucanians, Nos. 221, 222, 995, 997. 

 Yamassees, Nos. 1214, 1215. 

 Quichua, No. 637. 

 Peruvian of Pajta, No. 1517. 

 Peruvian of Callao, No. 941. 

 Peruvians from Pisco, Nos. 1061, 1326, 



1369, 1423. 



f KuKivSpiKOS, K«9aAJ}. 



1866.] 






284 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



II. PhoxocepJiali.* 



Serainoles, Nos. 604, 698, 132, 753, 



1105. 

 Ilurons, Nos. 15, 1218. 

 Sh>enue, No. 1041. 

 Maudan, No. 741. 

 Ottoe, No. 755. 

 Ottawa, No. 1006. 

 Creek, No. 1454. 



Narragansetts, Nog. 95G, 957. 



Naticks, Nos. 103, 110. 



Camanche, No. 247. 



Peruvians from Pachacamac, Nos. 571, 



631, 096, 1499. 

 Peruvians from Para^cns Bay, Nos. 



1298, 1273, 1274, 1275, 1303, 1304, 



D. Wedge-shaped or SpHENocEPiiALicf Form. 

 General Characters. Chiefly mesocephalic or intermediate in length belweea 

 the dolichocephali and brachycephali. Forehead more or less rgcedent ; 

 crown tria-tigular in shape, narrow at the forehead and wide between the 

 parietal protuberances. Back of the head more or less flat, and pressed in 

 towards the foramen magnum. Constitutes the transition to the square-headed 

 brachycephali. 



Pocasset, No. 1036. 

 Menominee, No. 35. 

 Narra^ansett, No. 693. 

 Shoshone, No. 1446. 

 Yamassee, No. 1216. 



Araucanian, No. 656. 

 Mound crania, Nos. 1510, 1511, 1287. 

 Chinook (normal form,) No. 457, ap- 

 proaches this type. 



E. Flat or Platycephalic Form. (^Suh globular.) 

 General Characters. Chiefly mesocephalic like the preceding group, with flat 

 vertex, and rounded occiput. Transitionary to the round-headed or globular 

 brachycephali. 



Pawnee, No. 540. 

 Dacota, No. 605. 



Seminole, No. 728. 

 Miamis, Nos. 1058, 1233. 



F. Globular or SphaericephalicJ Form. 

 Genial Characters. Brachycephalic ; vertex, occipital region and base 

 rounded or globular. Occiput sometimes rather flat. 



Ottawa, No. 1007. 

 Ottigamie, Nos. 639, 694, 209. 

 Pottawotomie, No. 736. 

 Winnebago, No 559. 

 Missouri, No. 211 . 

 Menominee, No. 563. 

 Mound, No. 420. 

 Miscellaneous, No. 215. 



G. Square, Cuboidal or Cubicephalic^ Form. 

 General Characters. Brachycephalic. Occiput vertically flattened, or nearly so. 



Ottoe, No. 756. 



Mohegan, No. 26. "1 Transition from 

 Nanticoke, No. 1219. / broad ovals. 

 Seminole, No. 456. Transition from 



arched form. 

 Huron, No. 1217. 

 Moqui, No. 139. 

 New Mexico, No. 1034. 







[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



H. Prognathic or Negroid Form. 



Lenni-Lenape, No. 40. I Maya, No. 990. 



Narraganseti, No. 953. j 



From the foregoing statements and from a careful examination of the pre- 

 ceding tables we may conclude : 



1st. That the crania of the Aboriginal Americans are divisible into Dolicho- 

 cephalic, Mesocephalic and Brachycephalic groups. 



2d. That the Dolichocephali greatly preponderate in numbers over the Meso- 

 cephali and Bracbyctiphali. 



3d. That in the case of the Peruvian skulls in the Academy's collection, 

 however, the short, square heads are more numerous than the elongated forms. 



4th. That in North America neither the Dolichocephalic nor Brachycephalic 

 tribes, when first known to Europeans, were restricted in their geographical 

 distribution to any particular locality. While the former were scattered over 

 the continent, through all degrees of latitude and longitude; the latter apjjear 

 to have been, if we may judge from the specimens in the Museum, more numer- 

 ous about the Great Lakes, at various places in the interior, in the south near 

 the Gulf of Mexico, in the so-called Paduca area, and especially along the 

 north-west coast. In general terms we may say that on the eastern or A 'an- 

 tic side of the continent the Dolichocephali appear to have prevailed ; and on the 

 western or Pacific side the Brachycephali. This in a great measure seems 

 to have been, and still is the case in Soutn America. 



5th. That long and short-headed tribes or races are very commonly found 

 throughout the two Americas side by side. In the extreme north, for example, 

 dolichocephalic and brachycephalic forms are contrasted in the Esquimaux 

 and their geographical neighbors, the Konaegi or Kadiakan Aleutians; and 

 again in the far south these diverse forms are exhibited in the Patagonians 

 and Puelches. 



6th. That this contrast in cranial forms existed among the extinct races of 

 America, as it now does among extant tribes. 



Tth, That in comparing the old and new worlds by their cranial forms, we 

 find that while in Europe and Asia the brachycephalic is the prevalent form, 

 in North America the dolichocephalic is the predominant type. 



8th. That^ while in Africa all the people are dolichocephalic, in South Ame- 

 rica they are nearly equally divided between the long and short forms. 



9th. That while in Europe and Asia the Polar or Arctic people are chiefly 

 brachycephalic, in America they are wholly dolichocephalic. 



10th. That various European, Asiatic and African crania, such as those of 

 Norwegians, Swedes, Anglo-Saxons, the Germanic or long-headed G rmans, 

 the Gothic or short- headed Germans, the Finns, Lapps, Turks, Sclavonians, Kal- 

 mucks, Burats, Prognathic Negroes, &c., find representatives among the native 

 cranial forms of America. 



11th. That this homoiocephalic representation is not confined to normal 

 skull-forms, but is shown in abnormal or artificially distorted skulls also. 



12th. That the Dolichocephali are divisible into at least six well-marked 

 forms or types, viz. : the pyramidal, boat-shaped, oval, cjlindrical oblong and 

 arched. 



13th. That the Brachycephali maybe divided into round or globular, and 

 square or cuboidal classes. 



14th. That the Mesocephali also consist of two sub-groups, one of which is 

 transitionary to the square or cubical, and the other to the round or globular 

 Brachycephali. 



15th Ttirtt these ethnical or typical groups are founded upon osteological 

 differences as great, and apparently as constant, as those which, in Europe, 

 suffice to separate the Germanic and Celtic stocks on the one hand, from the 

 Ugrian, Tuikish and Sclavonian, on the other. 



1866.] 




23G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



On the Introduction of tlie American SHAD into the Alabama Biver. 



BY W. C. DANIELL, M. D., OF SAVANNAH, UEO. 



(Communicated through the Smithsonian Institution.) 



My success in establishing the White Shad in the Alabama River being now 

 coniplote, I propose to give 3'ou a detailed statement of the noatter. 



Having long doubted the generally received theory of the annual migration 

 south from the northern seas, of the White Shad, and of the consequent annual 

 migration thither of the young fry hatched from the eg&s deposited by their 

 parents in our fresh water streams, I made inquiry of our fishermen, and learned 

 that minute but distinctive differences were readily detected between the 

 White Shad taken in the Savannah River and those taken in the Ogeechee 

 River, eighteen miles south of the Savannah River. Fully satisfied of this fact, 

 I readily concluded that the young shad that descend to the sea never go so 

 far from the mouth of the river descended, as to lose their connection with it, 

 and that they ascend in the spring the same river which they had descended as 

 young fish the previous summer. Then the feeding ground, so to spetik, of the 

 shad is in or near the mouth of the river. If the young shad does attain its 

 growth at the mouth of the Savannah and of the Ogeechee Rivers, may there 

 not be equally good feeding-ground* at the mou'hs of the Alabama and other 

 rivers flowing into the Gulf of Mexico? To solve this question, I, wiih the aid 

 of my friend Mark A. Cooper, Esq , whose residence on the Etowah River in 

 Barton County supplied an fligible locality for the experiment, in the early 

 summer of 1848 had placed in a small tributary of the Etowah River the fe- 

 cundated eggs of the White Shad, which I had myself carefully prepared at 

 my plantation on the Savannah River, ten miles above this citj, from living 

 parents. These eggs, so deposited by Major Cooper, were daily visited by him 

 until they had all hatched. I sent another supply of fecundated eggs to Dan'l. 

 Pratt, Esq., at Prattsville, near Montgomery, Ala., in 1853 or '54, as he writes 

 me, which he deposited in a small creek. Inasmuch as he left home soon after, 

 and was absent '* some weeks," he can only report that during that absence 

 heavy rains raised the waters in the creek, and washed away the " pen " in 

 which he had placed the White Shad eggs supplied by me. Nothing can 

 therefore be safely affirmed of the success of this second deposit, nor is it im- 

 portant, as in 1851 or '52 the White Shad had already been taken in the fish- 

 traps at the foot of the Falls of the Alabama, at Wiiumka, and of the Black 

 Warrior, near Tuscaloosa, though unknown to me at the time of supplying 

 Mr. Pratt with the fecundated eggs. 



Through the kindness of a friend at Montgomery, Ala., a shad taken from 

 the Alabama River was sect to Prof. Holbrook, of Charleston, S. C, and he 

 wrote me that he "felt certain " that the fish received and examined by him 

 was identical with the White Shad of our Atlantic rivers. I have a letter from 

 Chas. T. Pollard, Esq., of Montgomery, Ala,, of 6ih inst., in which, speaking of 

 the White Shad in the Alabama River, he says: "-They have gradually in- 

 creased in quantity since they first appeared, and have year by year increased 

 in size, until, to use the words of a native of South Carolina, who lived many 

 years near Sistera Ferry, on the Savannah River, — they are now equal to the 

 best Savannah River Shad." 



The White Shad have chiefly been taken in the fish-traps at the foot of the 

 Falls at Wetumpka and near Tuscaloosa. One, I am informed, has been taken 

 from a trap at the head of the Coosa River, near Rome, in this State, and only 

 some sixty miles below the locality in which the eggs were deposited by Major 

 Cooper, in a tributary of the Etowah River. I also learn that some few have 

 been taken with a dip net, near Selma. 



I think that we may safely conclude that the White Shad may be as success- 

 fully established in the Mississippi River as it has been in the Alabama. Since 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 237 



feeding-njrounds for that delicious fish exist at the mouth of one river flowing 

 into the Gulf of Mexico, may they not exist at the mouths of other or all the 

 rivers discharging into that sea ? Time must answer that question. 



When the presence of the White Shad in the Alabama River became known, 

 some enterprising citizens of Montgomery came to Savannah and procured a 

 number of the young shad from the river, placed them in a hogshead of water, 

 whiph was kept cool by occasional supplies of ice, and took them by railroad 

 to Montgomery and placed them in the Alabama Ri«er. The purpose of this 

 measure was to multiply more rapidly the shad already established in that 

 river. My agency in placing the White Shad there was not then, I believe, 

 known to those gentlemen, one of whom was Colonel Pickett, the Historian of 

 Alabama. 



{Savannah^ April 19, 1866.) 



June bth. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



The following paper was oflfered for publication : " Description of new 

 species of Diurnal Lepidoptera.^' By Tryon Reakirt. 



Dr. Leidy observed that the small collection of fossils presented this evening 

 by Dr. A. C. Hamlio is of interest, from the fact of one of them being a bird 

 bone. Two accompanying shells are Balanus Hameri and Saxicava rugosa, 

 post-tertiary species. The specimen^? were obtained from a railroad cutting on 

 the banks of the Penobscot River, Bangor, Maine, 47 feet below the surface. 

 The bird bone is a right humerus, resembliog in its construction that of a 

 Curlew. • 



Except the so-called bird tracks of the triassic sandstones, almost no fossil 

 remains of birds have been found in the United States. The Museum of the 

 Academy contains a few specimens, which have not been identified, as 

 follows : • 



A left humerus, almost identical with the one above mentioned, both in form 

 and size, from Tarboro', Edgecombe Co., N. C, presented by Dr. Booth. 



The lower extremity of a left humerus and a right radius, from a miocene 

 formation of Maryland, presented by T. A. Conrad. The specimens resemble 

 in construction the corresponding parts in a Snipe, but are as large as in the 

 Curlew. 



The lower end of a left tibia, from Burlington Co., N. J., described by Dr. Har- 

 lan as the remains of a Snipe, Scolopax (Med. and Phys. Res. p. 280.) 



The lower end of a left tibia, from the Niobrara River, of Nebraska, discov- 

 ered by Dr. Hayden, in association with a multitude of mammalian remains. 

 It resembles the corresponding part in a Crane. It is the only ornithic fossil 

 among all the vertebrate remains from Nebraska, amounting to several tons in 

 weight, which Dr. L. had detected. 



June 12th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



June 19 th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



The deaths were announced of Hon. Lewis Cass, Correspondent, and 

 Prof. Henry D. Rogers, member of the Academy. 

 1866.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



June 2(Sth. 

 The President; Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The fbllowinjTj gentlemen were elected Members of the Academy : 

 Dr. Henry B. ]]utcher, ])r. (leo. Guier, Mr. Henry C. Carpenter, Mr. 

 S. Raymond Roberts apd Mr. Jason L. Feniraore. 



The following were elected Correspondents : George A. Otis, M. D. 

 Mr. William H. French, and M. de Caligny of France. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following was ordered to 

 be published : 



Descriptions of some new species of Diurnal lEPIDOPTERA. 



BY TRYON REAKIRT. 



1. PlERIS YREKA, X\0\. Sp. 



Size and form of ricris rapx L. 



Male, upper side white, base sprinkled with black atoms, extending along 

 the costa of the primaries as far as the end of the cell ; a narrow black termi- 

 nal line at the apex, and below this a few scattered black specks ; a rounded 

 black spot on the medio-superior interspace, midway between the cell and the 

 margin. Secondaries with a small black spot on the costa, at two-thirds its 

 length from the base; fringes white, expanse 1-88 inches. Underneath, the 

 apex of the primaries is pale ochrey 3'ellowish ; an additional small black spot 

 is in the medio-inferior interspace, otherwise as on the upper surface. Second- 

 aries pale ochrey yellowish, thickly strewn with grayish or greenish-brown 

 atoms, especially condensed towards the base : costa yellowish orange. 



Body above black, with scattered whitish hairs ; below white. Antennae 

 black, ringed with white; club tipped with white. 



Female diflfers in having a large triangular apical patch, brownish-black, of 

 which the lower portion is densest, upon the primaries, and in the enlargement 

 of their central black spot, and also in that of the costal one upon the second 

 aries. 



Below, the primaries as in the male, the hind wings much more yellowish. 



Ilab. — California. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



2. PlERIS CASTORIA, nOV. Sp. 



Size and form of Pieris oleracea, Harris. 



Male, upper side pure white, inner half of costa of primaries, and base of both 

 wings, strewn with a few dark atoms ; a rounded black spot in the medio- 

 superior interspace of the fore wings, situate as in the preceding species ; no 

 other markings; fringes white, expanse 2 — 2-12 inches. 



Underneath immaculate white ; a faint yellowish tinge on the apex of the 

 primaries, and along the costa of the secondaries. 



Body black, with whitish hairs below ; antennae black, with incomplete 

 white annulations interrupted above. Club yellowish, or yellowish brown at 

 tip. 



iTaJ.— Califernia. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



3. PlERIS occiDENTALis, Reakirt. 



Reakirt, Proc. Entom. Soc. Philada., 1866 (ined). 



Hab. — California, Rocky Mountains. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



I have an example of Pieris Sisymbrii, Boisd, from Northern California, of 

 which the ground color is a very clear lemon yellow ; it differs, however, in no 

 other respects from types of the same. 



4. Callidryas thaurdma, nov. sp. 



Male, very similar on the upper side to C. Hilaria; the irregular outline of 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



the sulphureous basal portion remaining: the same; there is, however, an ob- 

 long black discal spot upon the primaries, and the black terminal line of Ilila- 

 ria is either entirely wanting, or represented only by a few faint atoms ; the 

 nervular extremities of the secondaries are marked by minute dark points. 



Under side greenish white, crossed with innumerable waved darker lines 

 upon the upper half of the primaries and their apex, and over the secondaries. 

 Costa of primaries continuous reddish brown for a short distance from the 

 base, followed by scattered points thence to the apex, and along the outer 

 margin, all of the same color ; also an indistinct line running in from the 

 apex : a large rounded ferruginous discal ocellus, pupilled wiih violaceous- 

 silvery ; base suffused with yellow ; an orange streak within the cell. 



Secondaries darker than the primaries, lightened with pale greenish white 

 above the subcostal and median veins; a small silvery spot, encircled with 

 ferruginous, on the lower disco-cellular, and six minute rosy, or rose-brown 

 spots, one in each interspace, midway between the cell and outer margin. 



Fringe greenish white ; expanse three inches. 



Thorax blapk, covered with long greenish-yellow hairs ; abdomen and lower 

 portions greenish-white; antennae rosy or ferruginous, darker on the club. 



Female^ h?L%Q of both wings pale yellowish-white; the mesial portions be- 

 come more yellowish, and the depth of color is gradually increased to yellow- 

 ish-orange on the outer margins; a large rounded black discal spot on the 

 primaries ; a bright ferruginous border at the apex, and on the outer margin, 

 extending below half its length, at first continuous, afterwards maculate ; in- 

 terior to this, a maculate series, similarly colored, bent nearly at a right angle, 

 just below the apex, and terminating at the costa on the one side, and on the 

 other just above the end of the marginal border. 



Below, bright ochreous-yellow ; the markings of the wiaZe remain constant, 

 with the difference in color, with the reappearance of the interior bent band of 

 the fore wings, and the addition of a rounded, ferruginous spot within thect^U 

 of the secondaries, obliquely above the discal ocellus; the six submarginal 

 spots of the same wing are considerably enlarged. i 



Fringe yellowish orange; expanse 2-65 inches. 



Body above, abdomen and antennae as in the male; thorax below, bright 

 ochre-yellow. 



Hah. — Madagascar. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



5. Terias jamapa, nov. sp. 



Female? Above pale sulphur yellow ; fore wing costa strongly arched ; apex 

 rectangular ; outer margin from the middle curved outwards, and deeply 

 crenulated; a large apical black patch extending from the outer third of the 

 costa, nearly to the inner angle; its anterior outline presents two short termi- 

 nal, nearly straight lines, and three prominent curves, of which the upper is 

 double the length of either the others, but shallow, while the lower two ap- 

 proximate to a semicircle in form, and are of considerable depth. 



Hind wing with the outer margin between first and second median vein- 

 lets produced into a longish pointed lobe, nearest the second branch, and 

 partially entered by it ; the ends of the nervules marked by minute dark points, 

 otherwise the secondaries are immaculate. 



Underneath, the apex of the primaries and the secondaries are suffused with 

 ochreous, and reticulated with fine ferruginous lines ; white atoms are sprinkled 

 over the surface, and in some places, form condensed spots ; three of these are 

 situated below the cell and first veinlet, another at the upper end of the first 

 disco-cellular, and several on the costae of both wings ; a small black discal 

 spot on the primaries, and a number of minute black points on the lower outer 

 margin of the secondaries. 



Expanse 1*55 inches. 



Hab. — Mexico (near Vera Cruz). Coll. Wm. H. Edwards. 



Mr. Wm. H. Edwards, of Newburgh, N. Y., has kindly placed in my hands, 

 1866.] 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



for examination, a series of Mexican Rhopalocera, descriptions of a number of 

 winch will be found scattered throughout this memoir. 



0. Tkrias solana, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface : primaries yellow, becoming whitish on the inner mar- 

 gin ; costa thickly strewn with greenish-black atoms ; a large black apical 

 patch running from the middle of the costa to the first median vein, along 

 which it is coutiiiued to the outer margin ; the interior outline of this patch is 

 somewhat crenulate. 



Secondaries white, yellowish only at the apex, on which there are two large 

 black conical spots ; short black lines run up the upper nervules from the 

 outer margin. 



Below the base and central portion of the primaries are yellow, becoming 

 whitish on the inner margin; the apex of the same and the secondaries are 

 ochreous, strewn with multitudes of dusky atoms, of which there are three 

 principal condensed rows on the latter ; all short, and none extending entirely 

 across the wing; there are two small discal spots upon each wing, the upper 

 upon the hind wings forming the terminus of the first atomic line. 



Fringe yellowish, becoming pale ferruginous at the apex of the primaries, 

 and towards the anal angle of the secondaries ; expanse 1-5 inches. 



Thorax above black, with whitish hairs, and three short dark stripes ; abdo- 

 men whitish, with a narrow dark dorsal line. Thorax underneath ochreous, 

 abdomen pure white ; antennae black, with white annulations. 



Ildh. — Mexico (near Vera Cruz). Coll. Wm. H. Edwards. 



7. EUPL(EA PAPUANA, UOV. Sp. 



3Iale. — Upper surface dark velvety brownish-black, paler on the outer mar- 

 gin of the fore, and upon the hind wings ; two long, rather narrow dull brown 

 vittae in the medio-posterior interspace : a submarginal row of seven chalk- 

 white spots, fringed with bluish ; of these the first two are respectively above 

 and below the filth subcostal veinlet,'both being larger than any of the follow- 

 ilig, — the second mostly so, — and in each of the ensuing interspaces there is 

 one, the fourth being the least, and the seventh tripartite, composed of two 

 small lunes and a dot ; there are three minute dots nearer the margin, ob- 

 liquely below the fourth, fifth and sixth spots respectfull3^ 



Secondaries with a submarginal row of ten spots, of which seven are oval ; 

 the main axis of the first three is placed transversely to that of the others ; the 

 eighth and ninth are rounded, and the tenth a narrow streak ; following these 

 is a marginal series of small dots, obsolescent towards the outer angle. 



Under surface, the submarginal row of above is reproduced, having added a 

 small spot nearer the costa. There is also a marginal series of eleven small 

 rounded spots; a small bluish spot above the upper radial, near the cell, 

 another within the cell, and a third, considerably larger, in the medio-superior 

 interspace ; a small oblong patch of appressed hairs in the medio- central 

 interspace. 



Secondaries have two white spots at the base of the wings ; the submarginal 

 series of above, and a marginal row of twelve, the last coalescing with the ter- 

 minal one of the preceding row ; a minute spot in the medio-superior interspace. 



Color of under side shiny brown, darkened at the base of the primaries. 



Fringe brown and white alternately; expanse 3-5 inches. 



Hab. — New Guinea. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



I am not quite sure of the specific distinctness of this beautiful Danaid ; 

 many of the published descriptions of the members of this genus are extremely 

 imperfect, and the insects themselves so subject to variation that it is very 

 difficult to determine them correctly, without comparison with the original 

 specimens. 



Amauris. p. , Hiibner. 

 DanaiSj (Sect. I.) E. Doubleday. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, • 241 



"The males have a patch of peculiarly formed, and closely placed scales, 

 situated on the sub-median nervule of the posterior wings, not far from the 

 outer angle. 



" The males of the first group have the anterior tibiae and tarsi covered with 

 Closely appressed scales." — E. Douhleday. 



There exists no sufficient reason why Hubner's genus should not be recog- 

 nized as valid, and the few species composing it be separated from the great 

 mass of the Danaides. • 



Geographically, structurally, and in coloration, they differ as much from 

 their former congeners, as is possible within the range of a closely connected 

 family ; and it seems to me, that only from a total misapprehension of the rules 

 of genetic formation, could such a naturally well defined group have been 

 merged into another of opposed forms. 



The four species of which it has been hitherto composed are all essentially 

 African, as will be seen from the following summary ; 



1. Amauris phsadon^ Fab. Mauritius. % 



2. " echeria, Stoll. S Africa. 



3. '^ egialea^ Cram. W. Africa. 



4. " niavius, Linne. W. Africa. 



To these well known species I now add a fifth, to which Dr. Boisduval has 

 given the MS. name o^ Danais ochlea ; its description follows. 



8. Amaubis ochlea, Boisd. sp. 

 Danais ochlea, Boisd. MSS. 



Male. — Upper surface : primaries rich velvety black ; a transverse sub-apical 

 white band, cut in three parts by black veinlets ; another much larger trans- 

 verse band occupies the lower central portion of the wing, extending ftom the 

 subcostal to the submediau vein, and is divided by the black Aedian nervnJe 

 and first branch into three large white patches ; a small rounded spot near the 

 apex ; two others on the costa, between the transverse band, above the upper of 

 which there is also a minute narrow dash, and three mbre near the outer 

 margin, placed between the lower poi lion of the first band and the inner angle : 

 of these the first is the largest- between the first two of these spots and the 

 margin there are three very minute dots. All of these markings white, or pale 

 glaucous white. 



Secondaries dark brownish-black; a large semi-transparent white space 

 occupies the basal and mesial areas, extending from the costal nervure to the 

 abdominal margin, divided into ten spots by the black veins and veinlets ; 

 three subraarginal white spots on the upper half of the outer margin- 

 Fringe black, alternated with white on the hind wings; th« primaries are 

 cut with white only near the middle of the outer margin ; expanse three inchc'. 

 Underneath chit fly as above ; the apex of the primaries and the terminal 

 border of the secondaries become brownish. Upon the first there is an addi- 

 tional small apical spot, and in place of three marginal spots there is a row of 

 seven, the two lower coalescing with the third submarginal spot. The second- 

 aries have a white spot at their base, and two submarginal rows, composed 

 respectively of eleven and thirteen white spots, 

 Ilab — Zambesi. Coll. Tryon Reakiit. 



9, MECHANITrS UTEMAIA, nOV. Sp. 



Female. Upper surface: primaries, basal two-thirds orange tawny, occupy- 

 ing all the area within a Viue drawn from upper third of the costa to the middle 

 of the outer margin. In addition to the usual costal stripe, a narrow terminal 

 line along the lower part of the outer margin, and a streak along the sub- 

 median vein, but not touching the inner margin, there are four other spots, ail 

 black, placed thus: one, trapeziform, within the cell, and one, rounded and 

 smaller, between the first and second median branches; abroad bar acr S3 

 the end of the cell, and a narrow, curved, widening at- the- tip line runs up the 



1866.] 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



mcdio-oentral interspace, from the outer margin ; a bent opaque yellow belt, 

 fi"inp«'(l with orange tawny, marks the extremity of the latter area, and another, 

 abbreviated, rises from the costa between the discal bar and spot. Tha apical 

 portiiMi ( f the wing is bhiek, traversed by a broad opaque yellow bar, also 

 shading into orange tawny. • 



Set'oudanes with a transverse maculate stripe, and a border, terminal, black j 

 on this last some indistinct white spots ; remainder of wing orange tiiwny. 



Under siirlace of b.oth wings cliietly the same, with the addition of seventeen 

 white marginal spots ; the abbreviated yellow bar of the primaries extends 

 here from the costa to the median vein ; on the secondaries there is a black 

 costal stripe, in addition to the markings of the upper surface, the space be- 

 tween which and the discal one is tinged with yellowish j the base is also 

 marked with a yellow spot ; expanse 3-25 inches. 



Thorax and abdomen above, blackish-brown, the first with a central yellow 

 stripe ; wing tippets orange tawny ; below yellowish. Anteanse yellow, ringed 

 with orar ge tawny, black towards base. 



Ifab. — Hondura* Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



Very similar to 31. lysidke and doryssa, Donbldy., and Bates, and in common 

 with both, is a local race oi M. polymnia. Speciu^ens of the first are in my 

 collection, from the same locality, and for a fine example of the second, from 

 Guatemala, I am indebted to Mr. H. W. Bates. 



10. Melin^a paraiya, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface; apical half of fore wings dark brownish-black, with a 

 very irregular interior outline, closely resembling that of J/. Eyinaas far as the 

 first median vtinlet, thence it is curved inwardly, and terminates in an attenua- 

 ted line on the basal third of the hind margin ; across this there are two equi- 

 distant, temi-opaque yellow bands, of which the apical is continuous, and the 

 other is divided into three spots, the central one being much the least; there 

 is also a sub-marginal row of small white spots, varying from six to ten in 

 number ; the basal third of the surface, excepting the costa, throughout its 

 entire length, which is black, is rich orange tawny, and the space between this 

 and the outer black portion is occupied by a broad semi-opaque yellow belt ; 

 within the cell there are two large rounded black spots, which mark the 

 chromatic line of separation. 



Secondarit s orange tawny, with a broad black outer margin, on which appear 

 some indistinct spots, and a discal series of six oblong black spots, unconnected 

 with the terminal border, and of which the second is very large, whence they 

 gradually diminish to the abdominal margin. 



Underneath the primaries remain chiefly as above. The secondaries have 

 the base marked with jellow; a short black bar runs along the costal veins 

 from the base, and there are one or two additional spots on the apical end of 

 the discal row ; the black outer margin also contains eleven or twelve small 

 white spots. Expanse 3 — 3-75 inches. 



Antennae black, becoming tawny ash-colored on their outer third. Thorax 

 blaf'.k, with a yellow dorsal stripe ; wing-covers and collar orange tawny, 

 dusky yellow benen.th ; abdomen brown above, marked with orange tawny on 

 the upper part of the fi st two segments, a broad yellow ventral stripe, and two 

 narrow laieral yellow lines, reaching only to the end of the second ring. 



Bab. — Rio Janeiro; St. Catherines Island, Brazil. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



Taken in company with Ilel. Eiicrate, Mech. Lysimnia, Napeog. Sulphurma, and 

 llh. Euritea. 



It is a local race o^ Mel Egina^ but mimics neither the Heliconoid nor Danaid 

 form with which it is associated. 



11. Heliconius Wallacei, Bates, in Htt. 



Hel. clytia, var. Bates, Trans. Linn. Soc, p. 556, n. 6 (1862). 

 *' The first yellow belt of the fore wing is narrow, and similar in shape to 

 the first white belt of.//. Aniiocha." 

 Hab. — Amazons. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 243 



12. EUEIDES ZORCAON, TIOV. Sp. 



Male. Upper surface : fore wings black ; four transverse bands, of which the 

 apical is composed of four oblong spots ; the second crosses the cell near its 

 extremity, and consists of two dashes above the cell, an irregular narrow one 

 witnin it, and a long, gradually tapered stripe below it. Both these bauds are 

 entirely dull ochraceous ; the third rises from the base, follows the first median 

 veiulet to its middle, up to which point it is orange tawny, is then suddenly 

 turned above this nervule, and runs nearly to the outer margin; this latter 

 portion is ochraceous, and is much compressed near its lower extremity; the 

 fourth is orange tawny, and occupies the length of the inner margin below the 

 submedian vein. 



The hind wings are black, with a broad central orange tawny belt, through 

 the middle of which passes a black band, sometimes united with the outer 

 border towards the apex, and usually narrowecL towards the abdominal mar- 

 gin; there is a row of indistinct spots on the o*ter margin, especially promi- 

 nent near the anal angle. H 



Under surface; disposition of fore wings' markings remains the same, but. 

 they are much reduced, with a consequent increase of the black and blackish- 

 brown areas ; the costa has a short basal stripe of orange tawny, and there 

 are three or four small white apical spots. 



Secondaries chiefly as on the upper side ; there is an additional transverse 

 Stripe, ochraceous, running from the base nearly to the outer angle, and marked 

 on its under side at its origin with a white point; two rows of well-defined 

 white points on the outer margin, of which the interior, numbering fourteen^ 

 are the largest; the outer row contains fifteen. Expanse 3 — 3^ inches. 



Hab. — Mexico (near Vera Cruz); Coll. W. H. Edwards. Honduras, Guate- 

 mala; Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



As may be seen from the foregoing description, this pretty species bears 

 considerable resemblance to Eaeides Cleobsea, Hiibn. 1 find, however, from the 

 examination of a large number of specimens of both, that their differences are 

 always constant, and such as warrant the creation of a separate name for the 

 designation of this form, which, although doubtless a local race of the Cleohsea, 

 has become perfectly segregated from the older type ; I have seen no interme- 

 diate varieties. 



13. AcR^A ORizAVA, nov. sp. 



Upper surface glossy bluish-black; primaries with a large transverse yellow 

 spot, divided by the median vein and its branches into five parts. 



Beneath pale ochreou^, with the nerves, and streaks between them, black ; a 

 very large central yellow patch on the fore wings, crossed only by black veins; 

 base of the fore wing black, that of the secondaries more yellowish. Expanse 

 2-25 — 2-50 inches. Body and antennae black. 



Hab. — Mexico. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



Closely allied to the A. leucomelas, Bates, of Guatemala, of which it may be 

 regarded as a more northern mod fication. It diff"ers chit-fly, but constantly, 

 in size and number of the yellowish spots of the primaries. 



14. Agjiaulis huascdma, nov. sp. 



■ Upper surface bright orange- brown ; markings of primaries as in *4. Juno, 

 but much narrower, more clearly defined, and always deep black. Second- 

 aries with a broad terminal border, containing a series of orange-brown lunules. 



Underneath, the markings present no perceptible difference from those of 

 Juno, but the shades are darker, the silver spots more clearly defined, and the 

 base of the fore wings much more reddish than in that species. Expanse 2-50 

 to 2-75 inches. 



The outer margin of the primaries is not so deeply sinuate, nor are the in- 

 dentations of the secondaries so prominent as in Juno. 



Hab. — Mexico. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



1866.] 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



A local race of Juno, differing but slightly from the Equadorean form Andi- 

 cvla : these are constant, however, in regard to the coloration and shape of the 

 wings ; in the latter respect, it approaches more nearly to Lucina, Felder. 



15. EuTKRPE ARKcnizA, nov. sp. 



3fat,\ Fore wings narrower and more sinuate than in Bithys ; thehind wings 

 dentate. Upper surface brownish- black, traversed by two maculate, white 

 bands ; the first extends from the outer third of the costa of the fore wings, to 

 the middle of the abdominal margin of the hind wings, consisting on the first 

 of eight widely separated spots, on the last the band is broken only by the 

 dark veins; the second band is formed of small rounded white spots, running 

 obliquely from the costa of the primaries to their inner angle, and sub- margin- 

 ally all equidistant from the border, on the disc of the secondaries ; there 

 are also some minute white terminal streaks at the apex of the fore wings, 

 and some marginal ones in th||middle of the hind wings' interspaces. 



Underneath pale brown, with darker shades between the veins of the hind 

 wings; the terminal streaks on ttie outer margin of the primaries are yellow- 

 ish. The inner band of the secondaries is striped narrowly with yellow lines, 

 beside which there are some small spots and dashes near the base, and the 

 submarginal and marginal rows, all yellow ; there are also two red basal 

 patches. Expanse 1-75 — 2 inches. 



Body and antennae as in Bithys. 



Ilah. — Mexico. Coll. Tryon Reakirt. 



A local race of Eut. Bithys. In addition to the differences in ornamentation 

 and the shape of the wings, I have found that in Arechiza the disco-cellulars 

 of the fore wings form but a very slight angle with each other, and the second 

 subcostal veinlet of the secondaries is invariably thrown off much nearer the 

 base than in Bithys; the difference in distance being fully eqnal to one-half 

 the distance between the first and second subcostal veinlets of the latter 

 species. 



16. Lyc^:na catalina, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface brown, glossed with violet blue, except a broad terminal 

 border on both wings. Fringes white, cut with brown. 



Under surface ash-brown, darkest at the base of the secondaries, more di- 

 f luted on the outer margin of the primaries. 



The fore wings have two spots within the cell, one at its extremity, the other 

 . nearer to the base; a submesial sinuated row of six rounded and oblong 

 spots ; and a submarginal row of six lunes ; all brown, or blackish-brown en- 

 circled with white ; the outer row is usually incomplete, and sometimes almost 

 obsolete. 



The secondaries have the main portion of the cell occupied by a large 

 whitish spot, running up to the base, and having a rounded black spot in its 

 centre. Between this and the outer margin there is a broad and similarly 

 colored belt, formed of confluent sagittae, each of which is preceded by a 

 rounded black dot, encircled with white, and followed by a narrow black 

 crescent. Below the third of these from the inner margin, there sometimes 

 appears an ochreous lune, upon which is impinged posteriorly a brown bar, 

 tapering gradually to the hind margin. There is another white-ringed black 

 spot on the costa, above the similar one within the cell. Expanse 113 — 1-20 

 inches. 



Body blackish-brown above, with some blue hairs on the thorax, under- 

 neath cinereous. Antennae black, ringed with white ; club tipped with the 

 same. 



i^emaZg, (appears to differ only in the greater size; expanse 1-25 — 1-30 

 inches. 



//a6.__fCalifornia. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



17. Lycjsna (MONICA, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface rosy violet, covered with an ashy hue, darker towards 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



• 



the base ; a narrow terminal black line runs along the outer margin of both 

 wings ; near the anal angle of the hind wings, this is preceded by a narrow 

 white line, above which there are two rounded black spots, the interior being 

 the largest. Hind wings with a single tail, black, tipped with white. Fringe 

 brownish ; expanse 1-05 — 1-12 inches. 



Underneath whitish ash colored ; a long discoidal streak, and three trans- 

 verse rows of dark ash-colored dashes, of which the two outer are close to- 

 gether, running parallel with each other, amd also with the outer margin, to 

 which they are very near; the inner one is midway between the marg n and 

 the discal bar ; it is slightly sihuated ; each of these rows is composed of six 

 oblong dashes, all being surrounded by whitish lines from the ground color. 



On tke secondaries there are also three transverse maculated bands, con- 

 taining the same number of spots, but differing in shape; those of the inner 

 row only are oblong, those of the central being lunulate, and of the outer 

 rounded ; the two interior spots of the marginal row are jet black, glossed with 

 some greenish metallic atoms, and are surmounted by two large orange yellow 

 lunes ; a discoidal bar as on the primaries, Und three rounded black spots en- 

 circled with whitish, situated transversely near the base, one on the costa, 

 another within the cell, and the third on the inner margin ; a similar spot, 

 sometimes only ash-colored, on the middle of the costa; a narrow terminal 

 line along the outer margin of both wings; tail as above; fringe brownish- 

 griseous. 



Body above black, with some reddish-violet hairs, underneath whitish ; an- 

 tennae brown with white annulations, club reddish-ochreous. 



The female is larger, — expanse 1-20 inches, and has the two black spots on 

 the upper side of the secondaries, surmounted by orange lunulas, sometimes 

 iadisiinct. 



Bab.— C^iforma,. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



Belongs TO the group of which Comyntas \s the ty^ie ; it is more nearly re- 

 lated to the following new form, than to either that species, or its Californian 

 prototype — Amyntula. 



18. Lyc^na tejua, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface very similar to that of Monica, but with more of a bluish 

 tinge ; a narrow terminal line as in that species, but edged anteriorly with 

 white, over the whole length of the secondaries, upon which there is only one 

 black spot; tail double the length of that in Monica; fringe whitish, on the 

 secondaries cut with black at the ends of the veins. 



Underneath there are three transverse bands on each wing as in Monica, but 

 arranged differently ; the spots of the two exterior on the primaries are almost 

 confluent, and the inner one is broken into two divisions — the spots in each 

 running together ; the upper consisting of four, and the lower, which is nearer 

 to the base, of two ; a discoidal bar, and a small spot on the costa between this 

 and the inner transverse band. 



On the secondaries the two outer rows remain the same, having, however, 

 but one larj/e black spot, surmounted by a very large pale orange- yellow 

 lunule ; rarely there are traces of another yellow spot interior to this; the 

 inner band is formed very irregularly, and presents very much the appearance 

 of a W ; discoidal bars, and basal spots as in Monica. 



Hal). — California. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



19. Lyc^xa MARICOPA, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper side brown, glossed with violet blue; a narrow terminal dark 

 line along the outer margins ; a black discal bar on the primaries, sometimes 

 wanting, and some obsolete rounded spots on the hind margin of the seconda- 

 ries. Fringe ash-colored. 



Underneath ash- brown, darkest towards the base. Primaries: a large black 

 discal bar ; a subcentral, transverse, sinuated row of seven large rounded black 

 spots all narrowly ringed with white ; following these, and parallel with the 



1866.] 




2 40 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEfty? OF 



niftrjjin, another series of seven indistinct spots. Secondaries : a di^cal bar 

 and two spots, one wiihin the cell, tlie otiier above it ; three transverse macu- 

 late bands ; the first cotni)Osed of eight large rounded black spots, and bent 

 twice at right angles, the second of smaller, and sagittiform, and in common 

 with the third, which is almost marginal, and very indistinct, runs parallel 

 wiih the border; all these markings are encircled with white, and the seventh 

 spot of the first and secoad rows are sometimes confluent. Expanse 1-25 — 1-35 

 inches. * 



Body black above, with some bluish hairs ; beneath grayish ; antennne black 

 with white annulations, lower part of club whitish. 



//a6.— California. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



20. Lyc/ENA TEHAMA, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface, brownish diluted with white, glossed with shining 

 greenish blue, especially on the Dasal portions, and traversed by darker lined 

 veins. 



A black discal bar on the primaries; secondaries have a marginal series of 

 rounded brown spots. Fringe white; brownish at the tip of the fore wings, 

 and cut with black at the ends of hind wings' veins. 



Underneath : primaries pale brownish griseous ; a discal arc, a small double 

 spot within the cell at one-third the disttnce from the arc to fie base, a sinu- 

 ate transverse median row, and an indistinct marginal row of spots, followed 

 by a series of plainer lunnles, all edged with white. 



Basal half of secondaries dark brownish-gray, with a blue tinge at the base; 

 within this are three small black spots, all largely encircled with whit^, and 

 placed transversely to the base, and a la,rge white patch at the end of the 

 cell 



Posterior portion clear grayish white, edged terminally with a narrow lihe, 

 and contains three transverse rows of dark spots; of theoc theWnterior are 

 rounded and much curved ; the central are lunulated, and the marginal 

 rounded ; the third from the anal margin of the two outer rows respectively 

 are much enlarged, and sometimes embrace an intermediate, yellowish-brown 

 lunule. Expanse 1-05 — 1-13 inches. 



Body clothed with grayish b'ue hairs above, ash-colored below ; antennae 

 black, annulated with white; club black above, ferruginous below. 



77a6._California. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



Var. c, male ; the secondaries present a submarginal row of connected brown 

 lunules above the marginal spots ; and the lustrous tinge is restricted to the 

 basal area ; expanse 1-20 inches. 



Il'ib.— Los Angeles, Cal. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



This is the Pacific representative of L. Rustica Edwards, of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains ; the two are very closely related.* 



21. Brenthis Morrisii, nov. sp. 



Upper surface uniform orange-brown ; hind margin of both wings edged by 

 a fine black line, always dilated at the ends of the veins, and which is preceded 

 by a submarginal row of very angular black lunes ; in the female the spaces 

 enclosed between the two lines is pale tawny ; primaries have a nearly straight 

 black discal bar, and within the cell are three transverse spots, of which the 

 central is the shortest ; below the cell a broad black stripe runs from the 

 origin of the first median veinlet, downward half the width of the interspace, 

 and is then bf-nt abruptly to the base, in the shades of which it becomes 

 merged and lost. Beyond the cell, there is a mesial zigzag band, and a trans- 

 verse row of rounded black spots, usually confluent with the marginal lunes 

 on the apex ; a short black bar rises from the costa behind these. 



* There will shortly be 'published by the Entomological Society, in a series of notes to my me- 

 moir, upon "Coloradian Butterflies," descriptions of the following new Califoruian fepecies: — 



1. Ciennnympha I'amphUoides. Keakirt. 



2. Lycitna Oxjona, Reakirt. 



3. Polyommatus Mariposa^ Reakirt. , 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



On the secondaries, in addition to the transverse row of larp^e rounded black 

 spots above the marginal limes, there ara four connected oblique black dashes 

 b&|ow the cell; a black mark very much like a K within and aljove it, and a 

 central rounded black spot within it; basal portions of both wings obscured 

 by darker shades-; fringe pale yellowish cut with black; expanse (j^ l-IO — 

 1-75 inches— 9 1'87 inches. 



Under surface : primaries pale tawny, tinged with brownish red at the base, 

 especially in the female; apical portion pale ochreous, or even yellowish 

 crossed obliquely by a brick-red shade ; the markings of above repeated, but 

 faintly colored, and in the male the discal arc and central spot within the cell, 

 each contain a narrow tawny line. 



Secondaries with a broad central band of nine large connected spots, of 

 which the first, fourth and seventh are the largest, all edged on «ithpr side 

 with narrovv black lines, and all with the exception of the fourth, which is 

 silvered, pale buff-yellow. The space anterior to this is brick-red. with three 

 pale yellow and one silvered spot near the base, and a yellow dot pnpilled 

 with black in the middle of- the cell. The posterior half of the wing is pale 

 buff; a series of seven marginal silvery patches, surmounted by eU)ngated 

 brownish sagittae, shading into brick-red towards the outer angle; above 

 these, a trinsverse row of rounded brick-red and brownish spots, the middle 

 ones usuall}' ocellated, and there are two flexuous brick-red lineg between 

 these and the central band; a narrow black terminal line, edges the outer 

 margin of the wings. , 



Body black, covered with brownish red hf\irs, underneath tawny. 



Bab. — California. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



It affords me much pleasure to dedicate this beautiful species to my esteemed 

 friend, Mr. Henry B. Morris, of Burlington, N. J. 



Dr. Behr seems to have seen neither this nor the following form when he 

 prepared his very valuable list of the " Argynnides of California." 



22. Brenthis nenoquis, nov. sp.- 



Male.. Fore wings slightly, hind wings much dentated. Upper surface 

 tawny; a terminal line ; a series of confluent marginal lunules also connected 

 wnth tlie bordering line ; a transverse row of large rounded black spots ; a 

 zigzag mesial band of large irregular spots and dashes, and the usual mark- 

 ings within the cell and towards the base of all the wings ; all these, and very 

 considerable basal area, deep black ; fringe yellow, cut with black. 



Underneath the primaries are tawny, becoming pale buff-yellow on the api- 

 cal area, across which there is a violet brown shade and on the outer margin ; 

 the markings of above repeated but much diminished in size, and lightened in 

 color. • 



Hind wings buff-yellow, mostly saturated with a rich violet-brown shade ; 

 a large silver spot at the base, cut by the costal vein ; two rounded yellow, or 

 silvery-yellow spots in the upper part of the cell, edged with a narrow black 

 line ; below these, two oblong velvety brown bars, one in the cell, and the 

 other in the first median area, two small rounded silvery spots on the abdomi- 

 nal margin near the base, each ringed narrowly with black; an incomplete 

 transverse maculae band of seven connected spots, of whitih the first, fourth 

 and seventh, are much the largest, and are always silvered, the others, very 

 rarely so •; those mentioned are always bordered anteriorly with a narrow 

 black line; and all of them posteriorly with dark violet brown ; a submarginal 

 row of six rounded dark brown spots, the third and fourth always pnpilled 

 with ochreous, the others rarely so; seven marginal lunules, of which the six 

 superior are silvery, that on the anal angle bright yellow ; a narrow terminal 

 line edges all the wings; expanse 1-5 inches. 



/fafi.— California. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



Closely related to no species hitherto described ; probably is nearest to 

 Monticola, Behr, but is very lauch less in size, besides possessing a radically 

 different ornamentaiion. 



1866.] 




248 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



23. EMRsis TOLTKC, nov. sp, 



upper surfrtce dull reddish-ochreouj brown ; a broad transverse paler band 

 occupies the ipiddle of both wings, the space between it and tlie base tra- 

 versed by numerous transverse waved lines, made up of many connected 

 dashes and iuuules; beyond the broad central belt there is a contlueut row of 

 darker lunulos, widest, on the costa, and gradually taperino; to the abdominal 

 margin ; after these there is a subinarginal row of rounded dark-brown spots, 

 of the same range as the preceding; fringe brown ; expanse 1'5 inches. 



Prini'uies have the apex produced, and outer margin sinuated ; secondaries 

 rounded. 



Umit'ineatb ochreons-yellow, with the spots of above repeated in ferrugi- 

 nous, a large patch of that color at the apex of the primaries, and another 

 across th'ir middl(>; a faint ferruginous tinge at apex of secondaries. 



Hab.— Mexico. (Coll. Wm. H. Edwards.) 



Very distinci from any of our described species. 



24. Synchloe QUEHTALA, nov. sp. 



Upper surface black ; an abbreviated band of four ovoidal white spots runs 

 from the costa across the end of the cell of the primaries ; a transverse curved 

 row of seven minute white spots beyond the short band, and a larger white 

 spot near the middle of the outer margin ; secondaries with a small red spot 

 near the an%,l angle, sometimes indistinct; fringe black cut with white; ex- 

 panse 1-38 inches. 



Under surface brownish black ; primaries spotted as above, but with the 

 markings enlarged and with two additional white spots on the outer rnnrgin ; 

 costa red at the base. Seiondaries with a broad yellow mesial belt, extend- 

 ing from the costa nearly to the first median veinlet; a submesial transverse 

 row of minute white spots, a large red spot at the anal angle, and three white 

 lunes on the outer margin, of which two are close together at the apex, and 

 the third on its lower half. 



Po.lv !'»>^ »ntent'?p V^l ck ;'legS reddish. 



JIad.— Mexico. (Coll. W. H. Edwards.) 



This is the lea?t species of the interesting genus Synchloe ; it approximates 

 most nearly to Hippodrome, although still very distinct, and less ttian half its 

 size. 



25. Papilio Eridamas, nov. sp. 



3Iale. Upper surface black, faintly glossed with bluisb-green ; a long streak 

 followed by an oval spot, both yellow^ or yellowish-green, below the upper 

 third of the costa of the primaries ; a submarginal row of similarly colored 

 spots near the outer border, becoming obsolete towsids the apex; primaries 

 sinuate; secondaries dentate, with a short elongated tooth, emarginations of 

 l)oth yellowish. 



Secondaries with a submarginal row of seven large crimson spots, widely 

 distant from each other, of which the first three are oval ; the fourth semi- 

 ovoid and larger ; the fifth, and largest of all, is almost rectangular, with an 

 indentation upon the lower extremity; the sixth intermediate in size between 

 the fourth and fifth : the seventh is nearly square, about the size of the third, 

 and wiih indentations on both sides; these are immediately followed by, and 

 connected with yellowish spots, largely so after the first and gradually reducing 

 to obsolescence under the last; expanse 3 5 inches. 



Under surface lustrous brown, paler at the tips of the primaries, upon which, 

 also, the subcostal ovoid of the upper side is indistinctly reproduced. 



Secondaries with three crimson spots at the base, and a submarginal row 

 of small, brilliant spots of the same color, the three nearest the anal angle be- 

 ing chevron-shaped, and the other four semi-lunate. 



Body black ; four spots upon each side of the thorax below, one at the in- 

 sertion of the abdomen, and a continuous series on its lower part, not, how- 

 ever, extending upon the anal valves, all crimson. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Hah. — Mexico. (Coll. Entora. Society.) 



A very beautiful species, closely allied to the Xenarchus of Hewitson, but 

 from which its differences, as indicated in the diagnosis, are invariably per- 

 sistent. ^ 



July Zd. 

 ' The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The Chairman made some remarks on Trichina spiralis, and exhibited 

 a portion of human flesh infected with the parasite taken from one of 

 five persons who recently died of Trichiniasis in Iowa. 



July \Qth, 

 Mr. Cassin, Yice- President, in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



July 11th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Nine members present. 



July 24:th. 

 Mr. Yauk, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



Prof. Cope remarked that he had made a few observations on some of the 

 extinct vertebrates of the Mesozoic Red Sandstone, durinp: an examination 

 of the specimens preserved in the collection of Charles M. Wheatley, A. M., 

 at Phoenixville, Pa. 



Rhjtidodon carolinensis (Emmons, usdally misspelled Rutiodon) appears 

 to be, so far as extant remains are conclusive, a species of Belodon, Von Meyer, 

 allied to B. plieningeri. One confirmation, the identity of dentition of 

 the WUrterabergian and Pennsylvanian species, had been pointed out to him by 

 C. M. Wheatley. The posterior teeth are lenticular in section, nearly broad as 

 high, crenate on both edges ; the anterior cylindrical, slender and coarsely 

 fluted ; the first represent Eurydorus serridens, Leidy, Pr. A. N. S., Phila., 1859, 

 110, and the Irttter Rhytidodon Emmons.* 



Clep-^isaurus pennnsylvanicus Lea, whose affinities have never been 

 indicated, ap[)arently belongs to the same great type as the preceding : while 

 its teeth are without pulp-cavity, as pointed out by Leidy, those of the fangs of 

 Belodon are very small. 



He was also enabled to announce the discovery of the first undoubted Laby- 

 rinthodon of these beds. The species, which is of considerable size, is repre- 

 sented by portions of two crania and numerous teeth. It is apparently nearest 

 Mastodonsaurus (Labyrinthodon) diagnosticus Von Meyer, in the propor- 

 tions of the cranial segments and sculpture. 



The largest fragment is eight inches long and eight and one-half wide, and is 



* Prof. Owen (Palaeontology) states that Cladyodon Ow.was applied to the Bame genus as, and* 

 is older than the name i3elodon. 



1866.] 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



a portion of the table of tlie cranium exhibiting tlie usnnl mcMliul deprea?ion, 

 and enibrm'iiijf portions of the postorbitnl ami parictil bones ; one of the 

 former i^four in. six I. long; both are pitted medially (about ;{] pits ia an inch) 

 and marked with short roarse sulci posteriorly. The parietal^ are 2 in. 9 I. 

 wide behind, and four inches wide between the anterior parts of the postorbi- 

 t«ls. On what is probably tlie posterior part of the interorbital region (a small 

 part of the posterior margin of the left orbit is preserved) commen(;e two 

 smooth shallow sulci 1 in. 21. apart, whiih are probably the posterior extremi- 

 ties of the superficial channelsof the face ot the Lnbyrintliodorits. Between them 

 the surface is pitted, (4 or 5 to the inch.) The parietal bones are throughout 

 longitudinally sulfate, (four and one-half to the inch), with obtuse ridges be- 

 tween. The parietal tontanelle was not discoverable, nor could the form of 

 the orbits be certainly determined, though they were probably not large. 



The teeth are of various sizes, sometimes two inches long, and more slender 

 in proportion to the length than those of the Mastodonsaurus j a e g e r i and 

 salamandroides; they are cylindrical, gently curved and acuminate, 

 v?-ithout external sulci ; of the minuter sculpture nothing could be said, as Prof, 

 C. had only examined the casts of the surface. In. a few weathered sections 

 the involuted folds of the enamel are well displayed. They are not convolute 

 as in typical' Labjrinthodonts, but perfectly straight and convergent to a mi- 

 nute central vacuity. In a tooth four lines .in diameter there appear to be five 

 principal radii which attain the centre, about twenty which nearly approach it, 

 and thirty two shorter, none-of which measure less than a half radius. These 

 radii, though exceedingly delicate, may sometimes be seen in longitudinally frac- 

 tured specimens. The roots exhibit a short conic pulp cavity. 



Having observed traces of similar radii in a small fluted tooth having an 

 oval section, much resembling some of those of Belodon {Rhi/tklodon), but 

 perhaps Compsosaurus Leidy, it had occurred to the speaker whether these 

 radii had any connection with the mineral constitution of the teeth. These 

 were all of black dolomite, the weathered portions,. between the radii, white. 

 Radii and straight veins of other material were pointed out in some specimens 

 in his collection by Wheatley, as iron and copper pyrites aud silica, but these 

 "were either eccentric T)r irregular. Inquiry is therefore supge&ted respecting 

 the existence of the labyrinthic structure in any of the above genera before 

 described. The form and sculpture assigned to Centemodon Lea render com- 

 parison with the new species unnecessary. 



The latter may be named Mastodonsaurus durus. The cranial bones on 

 which it is founded occurred in bed No. 15, a hard black shale, of Wheatley's 

 section in Silliman's Journal Sci. Arts, 1861, 45, about 89 feet from the 

 bottom of the series, while the tooth last described is from near 40 feet 

 lower down, in Nos. 21 or 22. The Belodon comes from about 35 feet below 

 the last. 



Geologists have inclined to indentify these beds with the upper Trias or 

 lower Jurassic. The identification of the Belodon and Mastodonsaurus points 

 most strongly to the age being that of the Keuper or upper division of Trias. 



Juli/ BlsL 

 Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected Members of the Academy : 

 Prof. A. Stille, Dr. Geo. H. Horn, Mr. J. G. Moore, Dr. A. Neb- 

 inger, Mr. C. G. Ogden, and Mr. Samuel L. Shober; and Mr. F. Cowan, 

 of Washington, was elected a Correspondent. 



On Report of the Committee the following was ordered to be published : 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Contributions to the PALEONTOLOGY of Illinois and other Western States. 

 BY F. B. MEEK & A. H. WORTHEN, 



(Of the Illinois State Geological Survey.) 



RADIATA. 

 ' ECHINODERMATA. 

 CRINOIDEA. 

 Belemnocrinus Whitii, M. & W. 

 ' Body below the summit of the subradials ovoid subcjlindrical, and above 

 this rather rapidly expanding ; rounded below. Basal pieces very small, 

 forming a flat.subpentagonal disc, as seen from below ; anc.ylosed so as to 

 obliterate the sutures in the specimen examined. Subradial pieces unequal, 

 three of them narrow, oblong or two and a-half to three times as long as 

 wide, one scarcely more than twice as long as wide, and the other narrow be- 

 low, but nearly two-thirds as wide above as the entire length. First radials 

 (or at least the only one remaining in the typical specimen) quadrangular, 

 nearly half as long as the subradials, and wider at the top than the smallest 

 subradial, narrow below, and widening upwards ; rather deeply sinuous 

 above across its entire breadth, for the reception of the second radial. Cavity 

 of the subcylindrical part of the body formed by the subradials, infun- 

 dibuliform, the wide part above extending down about one fourth of the 

 way. Anal piece resting upon the slightly concave upper extremity of the 

 largest subradial piece between two of the first radials ; its form unknown. 

 Surface nearly smooth or merely granulose. A slightly impressed, distinctly 

 defined, obovate flattened area, occupies the whole surface of the anal plate, a 

 small portion of the upper margin of the subradial upon which it rests, and 

 a larger part of the first radial on one or both sides of the anal piece. Column 

 and arms unknown. 



Length of body to the summit of first radial pieces, 0*57 inch ; breadth of 

 same at the top, about 35 inch ; do. of same at the summit of subradials, 

 0-25 inch. 



This species difl'ers from B. typvs, of White, the only other known species 

 of the genus, in its proportionally shorter and more oval form below the summit 

 of the first radial pieces, and the greater expansion above ; also in the greater 

 inequality in the size and form of the subradial pieces ; and in the peculiar 

 flattened or impressed area in the region of the anal piece. It likewise difi'ers 

 in having the depression in the upper side of the only remaining first radial, 

 for the reception of the second radial, proportionally broader ; while the visceral 

 cavity occupies near one-fourth the length of that portion of the body formed 

 by the»subradials, instead of only about one-tenth. 



The specific name is given in honor of Prof. C. A. White, the accomplished 

 State Geologist of Iowa. 



Locality and position, — Lower bed of Burlington limestone, of the Subcarbo- 

 niferous series at Burlington, Iowa. Mr. Charles Wachsmuth's collection. 



Subgenus NEMATOCRINUS. M. & W. 



Synbathocrinus Wachsmuthi, M. & W. 

 General form, when the arms are folded together, elongate cylindrical ; body 

 below the arms small and basin- shaped, being truncate below for the re- 

 ception of apparently a rather large column, thence spreading rapidly to the 

 summit of the first radials, which are horizontally truncated on the same plane 

 all around their entire breadth above. Arms simple, very slt<ider. equal and 

 elongated, — rising abruptly from the first'radials, seven to each, or thirty-five 

 in the entire series, and composed each of a single series of pieces, twice to 

 three times as long as wide, and very like the joints of the tentacula of other 

 crinoids. (Form and arrangement of the plates of the body unknown.) 



1866.] 




262 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



• 



Ueight of body, 0*12 inch ; breadth about 030 inch ; breadth of truncation 

 of tbe base, 0*14 inch ; length of aims, known to be at least 1'35 inch, but 

 probable more ; uniform breadth of do., 003. 



We very strongly suspect that this little crinoid will be found to be the type 

 of a new genus bearing somewhat similar relations to Sipibathocrinus that 

 Pterotocrlnus bears to Dic/iocrinus. The fact, howt^ver, that we have been 

 unable, after repeated trials, to make out the form and arrangement of the 

 plates compot<ing the body, has caused us to place it provisionally, for the 

 present, as a subgenus under Si/nhathocrinus, with which it agrees exactly in 

 form and general habit, as well as in having the base composed of thref 

 anchlyosod pieces. Even if it should, however, be found to possess precisely 

 the structure of Si/nhath()cri?ius so far as regards the body below the arm- 

 bases, we think its very peculiar character of having seven arfns (instead of 

 only a single one) rising directly from the summit of each broadly truncated, 

 first radial piece, a sufficient difFerenoe to entitle it to rank as the type of a 

 distinct subgenus, if not indeed of a distii)ct genus. The fact that all the 

 species of Si/iibatlwcrinus have, so far as known, but a single arm rising from 

 each ray, renders it improbable that there will be found intermediate grada- 

 tions in this character when a greater number of species are known. 



On one side of the specimen there is some appearance of a small cuneiform 

 anal piece resting upon the first radials, between two of the arm bases, as in 

 Sj/nhathocritius, though we are ratUer inclined to think this meiely the base of 

 one of the arms folded in between the others so as to be hiddeu, excepting at 

 its base, by the closing together of the arms on each side. We have counted 

 this as an arm, and consequently, if it should prove to be an anal piece, there 

 would be but thirty-four arms, which would leave but six instead of seven 

 arms in one of the rays — perhaps the anterior one. 



We have named this curious species after Mr. Charles Wachsmuth, of.Bur- 

 lington, Iowa, its discoverer, and one of the most successful collectors at tkat 

 interf sting locality. • 



Locality and position. — Burlington, Iowa, from the upper part of the Bur- 

 lington group, of the Subcarboniferous series. 



Cyathocrinus Farleyi, M. & W. 



Body, below the summit of the first radial pieces, rather deep cup shaped 

 or subglobose (oblique in the typical specimen), and composed of thick strong 

 pieces ; under side rounded. Base subdiscodial or depressed basin-shaped, 

 with a pentagonal outline, composed of unequal pentagonal pieces, very nar- 

 row at their connection with the column, and widening rapidly to their lateral 

 angles ; all curved upwards at their superior outer extremities. Subradial 

 plates three or four times as large as the basal pieces, about as wide as long, 

 convex, and each provided with several irregular wart-like protuberances in 

 the middle ; four of them hexagonal, and one on the anal side heptagonal. 

 First radial pieces a little laj-ger than the subradials, wider than high, and 

 each having a general pentagonal outline, but the superior lateral angles, 

 which usually curve inwards somewhat between the second radials, are more 

 or less truncated ; facet for the reception of the second radials large, or occupy- 

 ing about three- fourths the breadth of the upper side of each piece, and 

 on the outer side excavated downwards near half the length of the plate, 

 with a distinct outward slope. First anal piece about the size of the largest 

 basal pieces, quadrangular in general outline,' but having two other inconspicu- 

 ous angles above, in consequence of small facets for the reception of three 

 small pieces in the n#xt range, probably belonging to the vault ; resting 

 squarely upon^iie upper truncated side of the heptagonal subradial piece, 

 and connecting on each side with th^ adjacent first radials, above the horizon 

 of the summits of which it does not project. Surface smooth or finely 

 granular, with the exception of the irregular pustulose protuberances on the 

 middle of each subradial plate. (Arms and column unknown.) 



Height to summit of first radial pieces, 0'tl8 inch ; breadth, 0*80 inch. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



This species will be readily distinguished from all others'known to us, hy 

 the peculiar little wart-like protuberances on the middle of each pubradial 

 piece. Tliese are not incipient radial costse, nor properly nodes, but little 

 irregular pustalar prominences like drops of melted wax. Some of them are con- 

 fluent, while others are distinct and irregularly grouped. They rarely extend 

 to the margins of the plates, and are almost entirely confined to the subradlais, 

 though there are some faint indications of one or two on the lower half of one 

 of the first radials. 



This species is named in honor of Dr. R. D. Farley, of Jerseyville, Illinois, 

 to wjiom the Illinois Geological Survey is indebted for some interesting speci- 

 mens. 



Locality and position. — Keokuk division of the Subcarboniferous series, 

 near Warsaw, 111. 



ACTINOCRINDS CALYCULUS Var. HARDINENSIS. 



Although this little crinoid agrees so nearly with Actinocrinus cali/cuJus, 

 Hall, that we are in doubt in regard to the propriety of considering it a distinct 

 species, the fact that it comes from the upper part of the St. Louis limestone, 

 while the A. calyculus holds a position in the Spergen Hill beds, 200 feet be- 

 low, taken in connection with the usually restricted range of the Critioidea, 

 and some slight differences of structure mentioned below, cause us to place 

 it for the present, at least, as a distinct variety from the typical A. calyculus. 



In size, form, arm formula, surface markings, and most of its characters, it 

 agrees well with A. calyculus, from which it differs in the following details, 

 viz. : Instead of having but one or two interradial pieces to each space, the 

 first one much larger than the others, and ten or eleven .sided, it has four or 

 five of these pieces to each interradial area, the first of which is not greatly 

 larger than the others and only six to eight sided. Again it differs in having 

 six anal pieces instead of but four, while its vault pieces are merely tumid 

 instead of " acutely spiniferous," excepting a few of those in the dex)ressions 

 between the arm bases, which support little short spines. ' 



If Batocrinus should be separated from the genus Actinocrinus, this species 

 should doubtless be placed in it, as it has the general habit of the species of 

 that group, though its arm bases do not form a quite continuous series, the 

 intermediate spaces between those belon||jng to each two adjacent rays being 

 more deepling sinuous than those between each two of those belonging to the 

 same ray. 



Locality And position. — Hardin County, Illinois, from the upper part of the 

 St. Louis division of the Subcarboniferous series, — the highest position in 

 which the genus has yet been recognized in this country. 



Genus STROTOCRINUS, M. & W. 



Calathocrinus, Hall, (subgen. Aciinocr.), 1861. Descript. Crinoidea, Prelim. 

 Notice, p. 12; (not Von Meyer, 1848, — Leonhard and Bronn's Jahrb. p. 46*7.) 



The name Calathocrinns was proposed by Prof. Hall in the paper above 

 cited, for* a group including those curious species of so-called Actinocrinm^,, 

 with an obponic body and the summit more or less flattened and greatly spread 

 out in the form of a ten-rayed star, suoh as Actinocrinus perumbrosus, A. rerjalif, 

 Hall, &c. As the name Calathocrinns had, however, been previously used for 

 another type by von Meyer, in 1848, it becomes necessary to find another 

 name for our American group, and we have consequently proposed to call it 

 Strotocrinns, in the Report of the Illinois Geological Survey (p. 188), now in 

 press. It includes Strotocrinns perumbrosus, S. regalis, S. glyptus, S. erodus and 

 ^. lyratus, all of which had been described by Prof. Hall XJii\6.QV Actinocrinus. 



Genus STEGANOCRINUS, M. & W. 

 We have proposed the above name in the Illinois Report (p. 195 ) now in press, 

 for a genus allied to Actinocrinus, with which it agrees in the structure of the 

 body, but difiers in having the rays from the second or third primary radial pieces' 

 1866.] 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



greatly extended out horizontally in the form of remarkably elongated, slender, 

 rigid, arm-like appendages, which are covered in above, all the way out, with 

 small pieces like tliese oi' tlie vault, and bear the true arms along tlieir Hides. 

 lu some species, these long free rays are known to bifurcate once, while in 

 others they are simple all the way out, so that in the latter the radial pieces 

 may be said to continue in<lefiuitely in a direct line. 



Ti/pe. — Steijanocrinus pentacjonus, = (^Actinocrinus pentagonus, Hall.) It 

 also includes Steganocrinus araneolus, = {Actinocrinus araneolus, M, & W.)» 

 and S. sculptus^^Aetinocrinus sculptus, Hall. 



RnODOCRINUS NANUS, M. & W. 



Bodv small, subgloboae, with nearly vertical sides which round under below 

 to the basal concavity. Base very small, and entirely concealed in the concavity 

 of the under side, by the end of the column. Subradial pieces comparatively 

 large, forming the under side of- the body, and curved up so as to show nearly 

 half the surface of each in a side view, — hexagonal in general outline, but 

 probably each with a seventh nearly obsolete angle at the middle of the side 

 connecting with the base. First radials nearly as large as the subradials, and 

 regularly heptagoual in form ; second radials rather more than half as large as 

 the first, normally hexagonal, but sometimes pentagonal and rarely quad- 

 rangular ; third radials larger than the second, generally wider than long, 

 pentagonal, hexagonal or heptagonal, and supporting upon their superior 

 sloping sitles, apparently the first brachial pieces, which are not free, but 

 suppoi'ted by tlie first free pieces in the next range ; if there were no farther 

 divisions of the free rays, there must therefore have been two arms to 

 each ray, or ten in the entire series. First interradials smaller than the 

 first radials, and resting upon the truncated upper sides of the subradials, 

 regularly hexagonal in form, or rarely with the superior angle slightly trun- 

 cated by tbe middle piece of the next range, so as to form a seventh angle ; 

 second range consisting of two, or rarely three, rather smaller generally hex- 

 agonal pieces, above which there are five or six other still smaller pieces 

 connecting with the vault between the arm bases, thus making some eight or 

 nine interradials to each area ; anal pieces about the same number as in each 

 interradial space, but a little larger in size and diHerently arranged, there 

 bein* three pieces in each of the r^tl^ges above the first one, the middle ones 

 of which continue on up in a right line to connect with th6 base of the 

 proboscis above. Vault depressed to the level of the upper side of the arm- 

 bases, and provided with deep broad furrows or depressions ra*diating from 

 near the middle to the interradial spaces, composed of small, irregular, rather 

 tumid pieces. Opening in the summit of a short, rather narrow lateral pro- 

 boscis, which rises vertically, with its outer side nearly on a line with the verti- 

 cal side of the anal area. 



All the body plates are convex in the middle, from which point rather ob- 

 scure ridj^es radiate to each of their sides. The greater convexity and larger 

 size of the radial pieces impart a somewhat pentagonal outline to the body, as 

 seen from above or below. The surface is somewhat granular, and the col- 

 umn, whicli is composed near the base of alternately thicker and thinner 

 pieces, is round and pierced by a minute rounded cavity. 



Height of body, 0-33 inch ; breadth of do., 0*35 inch. 



This neat little species is evidently closely allied to R. Barrisi, of Hall, from 

 which it differs in having its body plates merely convex and provided with 

 radiating ridges, instead of being " ornamented by sharp, angular nodes and 

 spines ;" also in having eight or nine interradial pieces to each area, instead 

 of only four to six. Another difference is to be observed in the size of the third 

 radial pieces, which in R. Barrisi are "minute," while in our species they 

 are as large as the second radials. We only know the R. Barrisi from the 

 published description, but we have been assured by M. Wachsmuth, who com- 

 pared the form under consideration with authentic examples of that species, 

 that they are easily distinguished. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Locality and position. — Burlington, Iowa. Lower beds Barlington group of 

 tlie Subt;arboniterous series. Mr. Waclisumth's collection. 



Genus ONYCHOCRINQS, Lyon and Casseday, 1859. 



Although for some time past inclined, like others, to regard the type for 

 which the name Onychocrinus was proposed, as probably in no respect distin- 

 guishable from Forbesiocrinus, recent comparisons of some fine examples of 

 these forms lead us to think that they may be even generically distinct. At 

 any rate, they are certainly distinguishablrt upon more constant characters 

 than those separating Forbesiocrinus from Taxocrinus, which groups we have 

 elsewhere shown* blend togethc^r to such an extent that we do not think they 

 can be separated more than subgenerically, upon any characters yet pointed 

 out. 



At present we are inclined to regard Onychocrinus as being generically dis- 

 tinct from Forbesiocrinus and Taxocrinus, but it may possibly form a second 

 subgenus under Taxocrinus. In the nature of the column, the number and 

 arrangement of the basal, subradial and primary radial pieces, Onychocrinus 

 'agrees exactly with Forbesiocrinus : while in other points of structure these 

 types differ to an extent that could scarcely fail to attract the attention of the 

 most careless observer, on comparing good specimens of each. In the first 

 place, Onychocrinus differs from Forbesiocrinus in having the rays from their 

 origin more divergent, or even in some instances extending out horizontally 

 on the same plane with the base ; while in these extreme cases the long rays, 

 which are free in to the second radial pieces, and bear the small arms in 

 clusters at their extremities, have their under sides rounded, and their lateral 

 mai'gins curved up on each side to meet apparently a series of pieces covering 

 them over above. According to Lyon and Casseday these forms also have 

 the vault covered over with solid calcareous pieces — af character not known to 

 occur in Forbesiocrinus. Another difference is always observable in the anal 

 side of these types, which in Onychocrinus, instead of being occupied by as 

 many pieces as the interradial spaces, or a larger number, as in Forbesio- 

 crinus, is often so deeply excavated as to destroy the symmetry of the body, 

 and only occupied by a single row of yery small pieces, mounted one upon 

 another, and resting in a sinus in the upper side of the largest subradial, so 

 as to look much like a little dwarfed simple arm. On each side of this little 

 arm- like range of anal pieces, there is a free open space betvveeii it and the 

 adjacent rays, whatever may be the number of pieces filling the interradial 

 spaces between the other rays. How this range of little anal pieces (of which 

 there never seems to be more than six or eight) connects with the vault, we 

 have been unable to determine, as they are always, so far as. we have had an 

 opportunity to see, entirely disconnected from all parts of the body, excepting 

 the single subrtidial upon which they rest. We suspect, however, that they 

 may have formed the outside of a small lateral proboscis, the innec side of 

 which was merely covered by a soft dermal integument. 



This peculiar character of the anal side, in Onychocrinus, seems to have 

 been entirely overlooked or misunderstood in the species of this group referred 

 to Forbesiocrinus — the impression being that the anal plates had been, by 

 some accident, removed from their place. It is true, we had observed that 

 the anal area in onr F.monroensis and F. Norwoodi is only occupied by a 

 slender little finger-like appendage, resting upon the upper side of the large odd 

 subradial, but, as stated in our remarks in relation to the former species, we 

 supposed the anal plates had been removed, and that the little rounded finger- 

 like appendage occupying their place, was only one of the smaller subdivisions 

 of one of the arms that had been accidentally placed in that position. We 

 have seen this character, however, in the following species, which we have 

 in the Illinois Report referred to Onychocrinus, viz., Forbesiocrinus astericcfor- 

 ynis, F. Whifjieldi and F. Meeki, Hall ; also in our* F. monroensis and F. 

 Norwoodi, as well as in the new species described in this paper. In the typi- 



* Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., Aug., 1865, p. 138. 



1865.] 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ral specimen of F. Mecki now before ns, the anal space, as may be seen by the 

 figure in the Iowa Report, is entirely vacant, and also without the little row 

 of anal pieces. In five other good examples of this species before us, how- 

 ever, this character is more or less clearly seen. 



From tlie typical forms of Taxocriniis, Oni/chocrinus differs in nearly all the 

 characters distinguishing it from Forbesiocrinus, as well as in having usually 

 as many interradial pieces as the latter. 



As thus separated from 1' orhesiocrinus and Taxocrinm, Onychocrinus still 

 seems to include two types that may yet be found separable, since Forbesio- 

 crinus (tstericeformis, Hall, and our species diversus described in this paper, 

 diflfer from the other species mentioned in having the rays more spreading 

 and free in as far as to the second radial pieces, with arms clustered in little 

 bunches at the extremities of the rays far. out from the body; and the free 

 rays apparently covered above, at least a part of the way out. It is in this 

 {ype, if we have correctly understood Messrs. Lyon and Casseday, that they 

 found the vault composed of solid calcareous pieces, while in the other speciee 

 we have mentioned the vault is unknown. 



Such species as our 0. diversm, described in this paper, with their long, 

 spreading, bifurcating rays, and numerous little curled-up arms at their ex- 

 tremities, must, when perfect, have presented much the appearance of dried 

 specimens of the existing genus Aatrophytm ; but we cannot agree with the 

 authors of the genus or subgenus Oiiychocrinus in tlie opinion that this type 

 forms a connecting link between the Crinoidea and the Asteroidea,ox that it 

 is more nearly allied to the Star-fishes than other crinoids. 



Onychocrinus diveksus, M. & W. 

 Body and rays forming together an irregular five-rayed star, the body being 

 comparatively small, dSpressed, and distorted by the deeper excavation of the 

 anal side ; while the rays are large, stout, rigid and free, from the second 

 radial pieces outward, and extend out horizontally on the same plane with 

 the base. Basal pieces hidden by the column, or merely showing as a thin 

 ring scarcely distinguishable from the last segment of the column, when the 

 latter is attached. Subradial pieces comparatively large ; four of them equal, 

 wider than long, and all pentagonal, with the upper sloping sides longer than 

 the lateral margins ; the fifth one larger (particularly longer) than the others 

 and apparently hexagonal. Radial pieces five to each ray, thick and strong, 

 and after becoming free on the second pieces, curving strongly up on each 

 side of the ray, so as to make the underside of the free' rays distinctly rounded ; 

 first radial pieces considerably larger than the subradials, of rather unequal 

 size, wider than lorfg, and heptagonal in form, with probably the exception 

 of one or two of tliose on the anal side, which appear to be truncated on one 

 side, so as to be hexagonal in outline. Succeeding radials diminishing gra- 

 dually "in size, the second and third being wider than long, hexagonal and 

 pentagonal in form, and the fourth transversely oblong, as seen from below ; 

 while the fifth is pentagonal, as seen from beneath, having an obtuse middle 

 angle on the outer side. Beyond this the rays are each composed of a double 

 series of strong pieces, which are slightly disposed to assume an alternating 

 arrangement, the two series continuing in close contact laterally to the fourth 

 pieces beyond the commencement of the double series on the fifth radials, and 

 then diverging abruptly at an angle of 90° to 100°, to form distinct rounded 

 branches. At the outer bases of these branches an arm is given ofi" on each 

 side on the third piece from the commencement of the double series, and bi- 

 furcates so as to form a bunch of small armlets ; beyond this the two main 

 divisions of the rays continue on, each composed of a single range of pieces, 

 until the third piece beyond the lateral arms just mentioned, after which 

 they are each composed again of a double series of pieces, on the third of 

 which another arm is thrown off on each side, and bifurcates as before. After 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



this each main branch bifurcates without much divergence of the subdivisions, 

 which are short and divid«}d, so as to form together a bunch of small bifur- 

 cating arms, thus making altogether apparently not less than several hun- 

 dred small armlets, or ultimate division of the rays, to the entire series. 



The small armlets are all short, and form clusters at the extremities of 

 the divisions of the horizontally extended strong rajs, where they curve up- 

 wards, and fold together in bunclies like tlie fingers of a clenched fist. They 

 are each composed of a single series of small pieces, which are wider than 

 long, with a minute patelliform piece at the underside of each, as in Forhesio' 

 crinus. 



Interradials three or four to each space, with others above belonging appa- 

 rently more properly to the vault ; first interradial series hexagonal and rest- 

 ing in a notch between the upper sloping lateral margins of the subradials. 

 Anal series consisting of a single free row of very small pieces resting upon the 

 upper side of the largest subradial, so as to present much the appearance of 

 an abortive armlet. Surface merely finely granular, with the exception of a 

 small linear ridge along the middle of each armlet. (Vault unknown.) 



Height of body, exclusive of vault, 0-80 inch ; antero-postericr diameter, 

 0'90 inch ; transverse diameter, 1-40 inch; greatest transverse diameter be- 

 tween the extremities of opposite rays, 4 inches ; length of each of the two 

 main divisions of each ray, 0-fc5 inch. Column at its connection with base, 0*28 

 inch in diameter, and composed of pieces only O'Ol inch in thickness, or ten 

 to the tenth of an inch. 



This species is related to Onychocrinus asteriformis = (Fo7'besioc7-{nus as- 

 tericeformis, Hall,) but differs in attaining a much larger size, as well as in 

 having the two main divisions of each ray widely divergent and proportionally^ 

 longer, instead of nearly parallel. Again it difi"ers in having the subdivisions-^ 

 and armlets much more numerous ; also in having always five primary radial* 

 pieces to each ray. 



If reliable characters should hereafter be found for separating generically. 

 Taxocrinus from Forbesiocrinus, it is possible the name of this species would 

 become Forbesiocrinus {Onychocrinus) diversus, unless equally good characters 

 may be discovered for separating the three groups generically. It is e^uite as 

 probable, however, that Forbesiocrinus and Onychocrinus may be both included 

 as subgenera under Taxocrinus, in which case the name of our species would, 

 become Taxocrinus (Onychocrinus) diversus. 



Locality and Position. — Burlington, group, upper bed ; Burlingto»n, Iowa. 



Granatocrinus Shumardi, M. & W. 

 Body elliptic-oval, the length and breadth being as about 67 to 44. Base- 

 having the form of a nearly flat pentagonal disc, with moderately prominent 

 angles ; columnar facet round, and a little more than half as wide as the base.. 

 Radial pieces lanceolate oblong, or nearly three times as long a* wide, most 

 projecting and slightly narrower at the lower extremity, nearly flat between 

 the pseudo-ambulacral areas, along the margins of which they project ab- 

 ruptly in the form of a prominent knife-like keel ; forming five-sixths the en- 

 tire length of the body, and each obliquely truncated on each side above, for 

 the reception of the interradials. Pseudo-ambulacral fields very narrow, ex- 

 tending the entire length of the body, with almost exactly parallel sides ; 

 rather convex, and each with a moderately distinct, longitudinal mesial linear 

 furrow, on each side of which about 65 pore pieces may be counted ; lanceo- 

 late and supplementary pore pieces unknown. Interradial pieces about one- 

 fourth the entire length of the body, rhombic in outline, or widest in the 

 middle, and tapering nearly equally to the upper and lower extremities ; all 

 rather distinctly sloping inwards from the lateral angles to -the middle, so as 

 to present a notched appearance on the outer surfaces, (Openings of the 

 summit unknown.) Surface showing, by the aid of a good magnifier, in a. 

 cross light, microscopic longitudinal lines near the low»r.endi0.f the radial 

 1866.] . 17 




258 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



pieces, and on the interradials much stronger lines parrallel to their inferior 

 sloping sides. 



Length, 0-G7 inch ; hreadth, 0*44 inch. 



At a lirst glance, this species might be mistaken for the common Pcntremites 

 jnelo, of Owen and Shumard, from which it may be readily distinguished by 

 several well marked characters. In tlu^ first place it is narrower in proportion 

 to length, and ditfers in having its pseudo-ambulacral areas prominent instead 

 of sunken, and bounded on either side by a sharply elevated thin carina ; 

 while its iuterambulacral areas are flat, or even a little concave, towards the 

 lower part of the body, instead of being convex. It likewise differs in having 

 scarcely a visible line, instead of a deep furrow along the sutures between the 

 radial pieces ; while its base is much larger, and not sunken, but on a level 

 with the lower ends of the radial pit^ces, which are likewise more protuberant 

 at the lower ends of the pseudo-ambulacral fields. 



In its larger and more prominent base, our species agrees more nearly with 

 a form described by us as a variety of P. melo, under the name P. nufo, var. 

 projectus, from which, however, it differs in all the other peculiarities men- 

 tioned. We now regard that form as a distinct species from F. melo. 



Compared with P. elongatus, of Shumard, which it resembles in general 

 form, it will be at once distinguished by its greatly narrower and more promi- 

 nent pseudo-ambulacral areas, larger radial pieces, and proportionally larger 

 interradials, which extend up to near the centre of the summit. These two 

 forms may be regarded as the connecting links between the true Pcntremites 

 (P. Godoni group) and the P. melo, or Granatocrimis group. P. elongatuSy 

 however,, falls clearly into the former, while the form under consideration 

 belongs to the 7nelo group. 



Named in honor of Dr. B. F. Shumard, of St. Louis, Missouri, who has 

 given more attention to the Blastoidea than any Other person in this country. 



Locaiiti] and position. — Burlington, Iowa, lower part of Burlington group 

 of Subcarboniferous series. Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Granatocrinds Norwoodi, 0. & S. ? 

 Amongst some interesting Crinoids, loaned us for investigation by Mr. 

 Wachsmuth, from the Burlington group at Burlington, Iowa, there is a 

 beautiful specimen, "resembling G. Norwoodi more than any other spe- 

 cies known to us, with all the numerous little jointed, thread like arms, 

 and a portion of the column attached. So far as we know, this is the only 

 . specimen of this group ever found with the arms attached. As might have 

 been inferred from analogy, the arms in this type are apparently, in all re- 

 spects, exactly as in the true Pentremites. About thirty of them can be 

 .-ijounted arising from each pseudo-ambulacral area, though this is probably not 

 the entire number, as they are folded together so that many of them may be 

 •hidden. They are very slender, simple, of iiniform size, without any percep- 

 tible taper, and composed each of a single row of pieces as long as wide, of 

 ^hich about seven may be counted in the space of 0-10 inch. We are not 

 -«ure they are entire, though it is evident that those attached near the lower 

 part o{ the areas must be at least twice as long as the body. The column 

 near the base is round and composed of thin pieces of equal size, but farther 

 down there are wider ones, with smaller between at regular intervals. 



The body of this specimen is partly hidden by the arms, but as far as can 

 be determined it is as stated above, much like G. Norivoodi, with the following 

 differences : In the first place, the parts of its radial pieces forming the iuter- 

 ambulacral spaces are not more than half as wide as in specimens of G. Norwoodi 

 ■ of the same size. These surfaces also slope inwards laterally, so as to form 

 a rather deep groove along the suture between each two radial pieces, instead of 

 forming a flat area across between the pseudo-ambulacra, as in G. Norivoodi. 

 Again its pseudo-ambulacral areas are proportionally nearly twice as wide as in 

 G. Norwoodi, while the portions of the surface exposed are more coarsely granu- 

 lated than in Ihat species, and the granules differently arranged. As it seems 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



to be also less like G. mdo, or any of the other species known to us from this 

 horizon, we suspect it will he found to belong to an nndescribed species, but 

 as we have not seen the summit, nor base, we are left in doubt on this point. 

 Should it prove to be new, however, we would propose for it the name G. 

 Jimhriatas. 



Locality and position. — Upper beds of Burlington group, of Subcarbonif- 

 erous series, Burlington, Iowa. Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



ASTEROIDEA. 



SCHCENASTER WaCHSMUTHI, M. & W. 



Body flattened, with a regular, distinctly pentagonal outline, the angles being 

 produced into five rather attenuated rays or arms, which are a little convex 

 above, and apparently as much as two-thirds as long as the diameter of the 

 disc, if not more. Disc concave in outline on the outer margin between the 

 rays, and imparting a slightly alate character to the latter, by extending a 

 little along their inner lateral margins ; like the dorsal side of the rays, com- 

 posed above of numerous small, slightly convex plates. Dorsal pores mode^ 

 rately distinct between the plates. Plates of the under side of the disk about as 

 large as the dorsal plates, but flattened, scale-like, crowded, and having the in- 

 ward imbricating character of the genus very strongly marked. Ambulacra (as 

 seen in a compressed specimen) very narrow, their adambulacral plates mode- 

 rately large, oval-oblong, comparatively thin, and very strongly imbricating 

 outwards or towards th« extremity of the rays. Between these two rows of 

 short, flattened spine-like scales are seen arising from the ambulacral furrow, 

 and all inclining outwards toward the outer extremities of the rays. (Other 

 characters unknown.) 



Diameter of disc, 1-22 inch; rays apparently extending as much as 0*90 

 inch or more beyond the margins of the disc. 



This species will be readily distinguished from our S. Jimbriatus, from the 

 St. Louis limestone, the only other known species of the genus, by its smaller 

 and less convex plates on the dorsal side, as well as by its much thinner, less 

 oblique and more strongly imbricating row of plates along each side of the 

 ambulacra, and particularly by its much narrower ambulacral furrows. We 

 have not seen any traces of the row of short flattened marginal spines seen 

 around the disc of >S'. Jimbriatus, nor have the similar little appendages seen 

 arising in a double row from the ambulacra of the species under consideration 

 been seen in S. Jimbriatus, but it is probable these are generic characters that 

 exist in good specimens of both species. There may have also been similar 

 little flattened spines on other parts of the fossil, as there are some appear- 

 ances of such little appendages projecting from the transverse sutures between 

 some of the rows of imbricating adambulacral plates. 



We take pleasure in naming this interesting species after Mr. Charles 

 Wachsmuth, of Burlington, Iowa, its discoverer, to whom science is indebted 

 for the discovery of many interesting new types of fossils. • 



Localitij and position. — Burlington, Iowa ; upper part of Burlington lime- 

 stone of Subcarboniferous series, Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



MOLL use A, 

 LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 



PtERIA (PtERINEA ?) MORGANENSIS, M. & W. 



Shell (left valve) exclusive of the posterior wing, obliquely subovate, mode- 

 rately convex, very thin ; anterior and basal margins forming an obliquely 

 descending, semi-oval, or semi-circular curve, from the anterior ear to the 

 posterior margin, which is prominently and rather narrowly rounded ; hinge 

 line somewhat less than the length of the shell, and ranging at an angle of 

 about 45° above a line drawn from the beak to the most prominent part of the 



1866.] 




260 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



posterior basal margin ; beak oblique, ratber convex, and placed very near 

 the anterior extremity of the binge; anterior ear Vi-ry stnall, a little convex, 

 but separated frbm the swell of the umbo by an oblique, shallow, rounded 

 impression, — rounded at the extremity, and defined in outline by a very shal- 

 low marginal sinuosity ; posterior wing large, flattened, triangular, and defined 

 by a broad, moderately deep rounded sinus, — not equalling in length the most 

 prominent part of the posterior margin below the sinus — in young shells ra- 

 ther acutely angular, but more obtuse in adult specimens. Surface ornamented 

 with numerous linear, radiating costae, smaller than the flattened spaces be- 

 tween, and crossed by concentric raised lines, so as to form a neat cancellated 

 Style of marking, quite as distinct on the ears (particularly the posterior one) 

 as on the body of the valve ; radiating costse increasing by intercalation, the 

 intermediate ones dying out at various distances between the free margin and 

 the beak, all more or less interrupted at various intervals by irregular, shallow, 

 concentric furrows of growth. (Right valve unknown.) 



Length of the largest specimen, measuring obliquely from the most promi- 

 nent part of the posterior basal margin to the extremity of the small anterior 

 ear, 1-55 inch ; do. parallel to the hinge line, 1*41 inch ; height at right angles 

 to the hinge, 2 inches ; length of hinge and anterior ear, 1"17 inch ; length of 

 posterior ear, from the beak to its extremity, 0-91 inch. 



This rather handsome species has more the aspect of certain Upper Silurian 

 forms, such as Avicula communis, Hall, than of any carboniferous species with 

 ■which we are acquainted, though of course presenting v/ell marked specific 

 differences. 



It is a little remarkable, that all of the twenty- five or twenty-six specimens now 

 before us, are left valves, from which fact we may infer that the right valve, 

 being more fragile, was generally broken to pieces by the waves, before being 

 imbedded in the sediment. It is also probable that the right valve was less 

 convex, and more faintly marked than the other, as is usual in shells of this 

 kind. As we know nothing of the hinge and muscular impressions of this 

 shell, we cannot determine whether it is a Pterinea or a Pteria. If a true 

 Pterin^ and Kleins old pre-Linnsean names are to be retained, the name of our 

 shell will become Avicula morganensis. 



Locality and position. — Coal Measures (below the middle), Morgan County, 

 Illinois. 



DOLABRA STERLINGENSIS, M. & W. 



Shell rhombic-cordate, being cordate in outline, as seen in an anterior and 

 posterior view, and obliquely rhomboidal as seen from either side. Posterior 

 margin obliquely truncated, with a long slope, which is slightly convex above 

 and faintly sinueus near the middle ; posterior basal extremity produced 

 obliquely backwards and downwards, with a more narrowly rounded or sub- 

 angular outline ; basal margin ascending forward, with a moderately convex 

 curve, and rounding up more or less gradually into the very short or almost 

 obsolete anterior side ; hinge line short ; cardinal area moderately developed. 

 Beaks prominent, placed nearly over the anterior margin, strongly incurved, 

 and compressed antero-posteriorly ; umbonal ridges very prominent, sub- 

 angular, and extending from the beaks obliquely to the posterior basal ex- 

 tremity at an angle of about 68° below the horizon of the hinge, thus dividing 

 each valve into two subequal areas, of which the one behind is flattened or 

 slightly concave between the ridge and the moderately prominent postero- 

 dorsal edge, and that in front and below it convex. Surface marked with 

 concentric striae of growth. (Hinge and interior unknown.) 



Greatest length, measuring obliquely from the beaks to the posterior basal 

 extremity, 2*20 inches ; diameter at right angles to the same, 1*50 inch ; con- 

 vexity of the two valves when closed, 1-50 inch. 



This species is evidently related to Cyrtodonta Hindi, of Billings (see 

 Palseonzoic Fossils of Canada, vol. 1, p. 151, fig. 131, a, b), from the same 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



geological horizon. It differs, however, in several important specific charac- 

 acters, being proportionally much more gibbous, shorter, and, in consequence 

 of its hinge Une forming a wider angle with its umbonal axis, distinctly less 

 oblique. It also differs in having its anterior side much less prominent and 

 more broadly rounded below the beaks, which consequently have the appear- 

 ance of being almost terminal. Its beaks are likewise more compressed 

 antero-posteriorly, and its hinge line shorter. Our specimen does not show 

 the cardinal area very satisfactorily, though it is evidently moderately well 

 developed and shorter than in Mr. Billings' Sfeeies. 



Until the hinge and interior of this shell can be examined, it is scarcely 

 possible to determine very clearly its generic character, but on comparison 

 with CacullceJi angastata, Sowerby, the type of McCoy's genus Dolahra.* and 

 other more obliquely truncated species, such as C. unilateralism Sowerby, C 

 amydalina, Phillips, as figured in Phillips' Palaeozoic Fossils, we can scarcely 

 doubt the propriety of referring it to the genus Dolahra. Some of these 

 species have much the form and general external appearance of the genus 

 Cuculhea ; while Sowerhy's figure of an internal cast of the so called C. angus- 

 tata (oreol. Trans. (2), vol. v. pi. 53, fig. 2.5), seem to indicate a very similar 

 hinge. They appear to want the prominent posterior muscular support and 

 the radiating costje or striae of the more modern species of true Cuculhea, of 

 which, however, they are evidently palaeozoic representatives. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group, of Lower Silurian Series, at Ster- 

 ling, Illinois. 



Macrodon micronema, M. & W. 



Shell rather small, very inequilateral, elongate-oblong, nearly twice and a- 

 half as long as high, rather distinctly convex in .the anterior and central 

 regions, as well as along the oblique posterior umbonal slopes. Posterior 

 dorsal region compressed above the umbonal ridge. Cardinal margin straight, 

 nearly parallel to the base, and but little shorter than the valves. Ventral 

 margin long and straight, or but slightly sinuous in the middle, and rounding 

 up rather abruptly and nearly equally at the ends. Posterior extremity trun- 

 cated, with a slight forward inclination, sometimes faintly sinuous in outline. 

 Anterior side very short and rounded. Beaks rather depressed, but rising 

 moderately above the hinge and somewhat flattened on ihe outer side ; in- 

 curved, approximate, and placed near the anterior end. Surface ornamented 

 with radi ting striae, which are oblique, coarse, and rather irregular on the 

 compressed posterior region, but become gradually less oblique, finer and 

 more regular anteriorly, so that on the middle and anterior portions of the 

 valves they are exceedingly minute, very regular, and only visible by the aid 

 of a go )d magnifier in a cross light. A few moderately distinct marks of 

 growth are also seen near the basal and posterior margins. (Hinge, area and 

 interior unknown.) 



Length, 0'U5 inch ; height (at beaks), 28 inch ; convexity, 24 inch. 



This little shell has much the form and general appearance of Macrodon 

 carbonaria,=( Area carbonaria, Cox, Kentucky Geol. Report, pi. viii. fig. 8), 

 but may be readilv distinguished, not only by its smaller size and less nearly 

 terminal beaks, but by the extremely minute size of its radiating striae on 

 the co-nvex portions of its valves. 



Loc'tlifg and position. —St. Genevieve County, Missouri, in the Chester divi- 

 sion of the Subcarbouiferous series, also in the same position, Randolph Co., 

 Illinois. 



* The pt^nus Dolahra, as first pr ipo«ed by Prof. McCoy, inclufied along with the typical species, 

 such as ■Cuculliea anguiitata and C. unitnteralis, Sowerby, C. amydulina, I'hillips. Ac, other forms 

 belonging to the subsequent. y established genus Sciiizodus, King. After the separation of the lat- 

 ter group, howttver, the name Dulabra was of course left tor the other genus. 



1866.] 




262 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



GASTEROPODA. 



Genua PLATYCERAS, Conrad, 1840. 

 (Acroculia, riiillips, 1841.) 



The penns Flatyceras was proposed by Mr. Conrad for a group of palsDOZoic 

 ehell>', very generally referred by European authors to the Montfort'8 genus 

 Copulu<, published in ISIO, --{Pi/<'0}>sis, Lamarck, 1812.) Mr. Conrad's de- 

 scription of tliis grnus reads as follows : "I propose to group in this genus 

 the PiUopsls iuhifer, (Sowerby), P. vetusa, (Sowerby), Nerita haliofis, 

 (Sowerby), and perhaps BMcrnphon cormmriefes. These shells are suboval or 

 subglobose, with a small spire, the whorls of which are sometimes free and 

 sometimes contiguous; the mouth is generally campanulate or expanded."* 

 During the following year, Prof. Phillips pioposed in his "Palaeozoic Fossils," 

 p. 93, the name Acroculia for the same fossils. 



In this country Mr. Conrad's name has been generally adopted for these shells, 

 which is certainly proper, unless they shall be found to agree with the older ge- 

 nus Capitlus, since his name has priority over that proposed by Prof. Phillips. 

 Although agreeing with those who regard these fossils as being probably dis- 

 tinct from the existing genus Capuliif,, we believe they are more nearly allied 

 to that group than is generally supposed to be the case by American palaeon- 

 tologists. The only reason assigned by Professor Hall for separating them 

 from the modern genus is, that he had never observed in them any traces of 

 the peculiar horse- shoe shaped muscular scar so conspicuous in the genus 

 Capufus.f We have recently, however, found very similar muscular impres- 

 sions in two distinct species of this genus, one of which seems to be a variety 

 of P. subrectum, Hall, from the Keokuk group, while the other is a new 

 species describi d in this paper from the Waverly Sandstone, of Ohio.t In 

 both of these, internal casts show an elongate oval muscular impression on 

 each side, connected by a linear band passing around behind. It is also 

 worthy of nnte that both of these species belong to the nearly or quite straight 

 section of the genus, for which Prof. Hall at one time proposed the name 

 of Orthonychia,§ and hence are less nearly like the modern typical forms of 

 the genus Capulus than the great majority of the Palseozoic species. 



A careful examination of extensive collections of these shells from our west- 

 ern palaeozoic rocks, has also satisfied us that the animal must have been simi- 

 lar in habits to Capulus and other types of the family Cupulidce, to which they 

 evidently belongl',, in being sedentary shells. This is shown by specimens 

 found attached to crinoids and other objects in such a manner that the 

 sinuosities of the lip exactly correspond to the irregularities of the surface to 

 which they are attached. For instance, we have now before us one of these 

 shells attachc'd to the side of a Pentremites Godoni, so as to entirely cover one 

 of the pseudo ambulacral fields and two of the intermediate areas, and yet the 

 sinuosities of its lip conform so exactly to the irregularities of the side of the 



* PalsBontokigical Report, New York, 1840, p. 205. 



j- 12lh Ann. Report Regents Universi y New York, p. 16, 1859. 



t Similar mui=CulHr iinpresjijons are known to occur in iLe JVeritidse and other univalTes. 



I Report, 4th Diet. N Y., 1843. 



Ijlnasheet entitlftl "Iowa Geological Survey, supplement to vol. 1, part ii, 1S59," i8.«tied in 

 1860. Prof. Hall descrittert a patelliform PlatyceraSy Ir^ni Naiivoo, Illinois, under the name P.fis- 

 ture.Ua, which he says has a perforation jusi anterior to the apex. Although this is merely men- 

 tioned as a Fpecific character, disiiuguishing it from an otherwise similar species described in the 

 same paper, conchologists will rea<ijly understand that such an opening, near the apex <'f the 

 shell, if natural must have be&n. judging from all analogy, for an excurrent or anal siphon, as 

 in the Fissurellidte, and hence would not only remove the spei-ie.< fmm thegenus PUdyceras. but 

 from the family Capttlidne, and place it in the Fissiire.llidir;, regarded by the best systematists as 

 belonging to a distinct order fnm that including tlie Copulidm. A careful examination, however, 

 of the typ'cal sptcimens of P.Jtssure.Ua, «nil other examples of the same species frtm the original 

 locality, now in the p sscsvion of one of the writers, leads us t<> think the perforation alluded to 

 (which only exists in one of the specimens), almost beyond doubt au accidental break in the shell, 

 not a natural peiforatiou 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Pentremife that the fit looks as if it might have been air tight. The corres- 

 ponding undulations of the lines of growth likewise show clearly thai this nice 

 adaptation of the margins of the lip to the irregularities of the surface of the 

 Pentremlte could not have resulted from accidental pressure when the edge of 

 the lip was somewhat yielding, since these curves in the marks of growth are 

 seen to extend up the sides of the shell some distance from the margin, where 

 there could have been no flexibility. 



This habit of attaching themselves to Crinoids, has led some to think the crl- 

 noids were in the act of devouring these mollusks at the moment when tbey per- 

 ished, and that these mollusks constituted the chief food of the crinoids. So far as 

 our observations go, however, we do not think the evidence sufficient to es- 

 tablish this fact, since these shells are as often attached to the side of" the crinoid 

 below the horizon of the arms as to the summit, and hence out of reach of the 

 mouth, while the conformity of the margins of the shell to the inequalities of the 

 surface to which they are found attached, rather indicates that they grew there. 

 The probability seems to be, that like various other sedentary marine animals, 

 these mollusks, in their very young state, floated freely about until they found 

 a suitable place to attach themselves. We were at one time inclined to think 

 there might also be some reason for believing that the aiult shell at least some- 

 times changed its station, from the fact that in some instances we observe the 

 lines of growth indicating strong sinuosities in the lip during apart of the growth 

 of the shell, which afterwards became suddenly obliterated, to give place to a 

 diS"erent set of irregularities, as if the animal had changed its stat on and 

 adapted the sinuosities of its lip to a new surface. This, however, may have 

 been produced by the lateral expansion of the lip, by which it was brought into 

 contact with ditterent inequalities as the shell increased in size. We have no 

 evidence that they possessed the power of excavating a depression in the sur- 

 face of attachment, as in Amalthea, or of secreting a shelly layer or support 

 under the foot, as in Hipponijx. 



Prof. Hall has proposed to establish two subordinate groups under this 

 genus, more or less distinct from the typical forms of Platyceras. These may 

 be distinguished thus : — 



1. Flafi/cp.ras, Conrad. (Typical.) Shell with apex incurved or spiral ; sur- 

 face concentrically striated, sometimes radiately plicate, rarely spiniferous. 

 Pileopsis tuhifer^ Sow. 



2. Ortlionychia, Hall. Shell arched or straight, with concentric strige. 

 Platt/ceras subrectum, Hall. 



3. Igoceras, Hall. Diflering from the last in having the surface cancellated. 

 Ex. P. plicatum, Conr. 



It is, however, often very difficult to separate the species into these groups, 

 owing to the numerous gradations by which they blend into each otiier. 



Platyceeas l^vigatum, M. & W. 



Shell small, dextral, subglobose, composed of two to two and a-half very 

 rapidly expanding contiguous whorls, the first of which is minute; lasl whorl 

 forming much the larger part of the shell, evenly convex, and althongh in- 

 creasing rapidly in size, not properly campanulate ; aperture nearly circular, 

 being somewhat straightened on the inner side ; lip not sinuous in any 

 of the specimens examined ; surface nearly smooth, but showing fine lines of 

 growth under a lense, where not worn. 



Length, 0-55 inch; breadth, 38 inch. 



This little shell is not very nearly related to any of the other carboniferous 

 species of this country with which we are acquainted. It will be readily 

 identified by its small size, rapidly expanding whorls, smooth surface, without 

 folds or plications, and the non-sinuous, regular outline of its lip. From the 

 latter character, it would seem to have attached itself only to even surfaces. 

 In size and the regular smoothness of its surface it is quite similar to 

 1866.] 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



P. bivolvr, of Wliite & Whitfield, from the Kiiiderhook group ; hut it may be 

 readily tiistinguished by its iniioli more rapidly expanding whorls aivi conse- 

 quently larger aperture. It also differs in having the apex of its spire distinctly 

 sunken below the upper side of the body whorl, instead of nearly even 

 with it. 



Amongst foreign species, ours is perhaps most nearly allied to Pileopsis 

 nvfjustiitdy of riiiilips (Geol. Yorks. 11, pi. xiv, fig. 20), from which it also 

 differs in having its whorls much more rapidly expanding, and its aperture 

 proportionally much larger and more rounded. 



Loralitji and position. — St. Genevieve county, Missouri, and Randolph 

 county, Illinois ; from the Chester division of the Subcarbouiferous series. 



Platyceras haliotoides, M. & W. 



Shell rather small, ovate, very oblique and depressed ; composed of two very 

 rapidly expaudinjr, nearly or quite contiguous volutions, the last one of which 

 is depressed above, narrowly rounded around the dorsal side, and forms nearly 

 the entire bulk of the shell ; apex of spire on a plane with upper side of the 

 "body whorl ; aperture large, transversely oval, being wider than high ; lip 

 sometimes sinuous on the outer or dorsal side ; surface with moderately dis- 

 tinct lines of growth. Exfoliated surfaces sometimes showing apparently 

 traces of revolving striae. 



Length, 0-73 inch; breadth, 0*54 inch ; height, 41 inch. 



This species will be recognized by its very oblique depressed form, and the 

 narrowly round character of the outer side of its body whorl, which peculiari- 

 ties give it much the form of a Haliotis. Its first turn, which is quite small, 

 seems to have been sometimes free or slightly detatclied from the body of the 

 shell, and in other examples in contact with it. The marks of growth generally 

 indicate a rather broad, moderately deep sinuosity of the lip on the dorsal or 

 outer side. 



Locahtfi and position. — Waverly sandstone, fifty feet below the Millstone 

 grit, Richfield, Summit county, Ohio. 



Platyceras uncum, M. & W. 



Shell rather under medium size, in adult examples elongate conical and 

 oblique ; body portion nearly straight, especially on the posterior side ; apex 

 attenuate, pointed, laterally compressed and curved backwards (without any 

 lateral obliquity), so as to form a free hook of ab ut half a turn. Aperture 

 generally a little wider transversely than the anteroposterior diameter, and 

 usually showing a faintly subtrigonal outline, produced by the prominence of 

 the front, and the flattening of the posterior sile of the body. Lip irregularly 

 undulated, prominent on each side, broadly sinuous behind and provided 

 with a very deep narrow sinus in fron^ Surface with the usual undulating 

 concentric strige crossed on the lower half of the body by small, rather obscure 

 longitudinal plications, and in front by a larger, but narrow prominent ridge, 

 upon which the lines of growth make a strong upward curve, so as to indicate 

 the presence of the anterior sinus during most of the growth of the shell. 



Length, 1 inch; breadth (transverse diameter of the aperture), 0-70 inch; 

 antero-posterior diameter of the aperture, 0*55 inch. 



This species is intermediate in size and some other respects between 

 Platyceras acutirostris=^ ( Caj)nlus acutirostris, Hall) , and Platyceras equilatera, 

 Hall. In size and general appearance it is most like the former, though it is 

 larger and differs in having its apex merely hooked instead of subspiral, as 

 well as in its prominent anterior ridge and deeper and narrower anterior sinus. 

 From P. equilatera it is distinguished by its smaller size, narrower and straighter 

 form (particularly at maturity), less incurved beak, prominent anterior ridge, 

 deep anterior sinus and portionally smaller aperture. It also wants the 

 antero-lateral sinuses of the lip seen in the typical forms of that shell. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENC:ig:S OP PHILADELPHIA. 265 



It is quite evident that the nature and position of the sinuosities of the lip, 

 as already suggested, in all the species of this genus, were modified to a con- 

 siderable extent by the nature of the surface to which the animal was attached 

 during life. A careful examination, however, of large collections of most of 

 the known American palseozoic species, shows that there was generally a ten- 

 denci] towards a uniformity in the sinus and the coiresponding longitudinal 

 ridges, when present, in each species, particularly in those of Carboniferous 

 age. 



Locality and position^ — Keokuk limestone, of the Subcarboniferous series, at 

 Nauvoo, ill. 



Platyceras (Orthonychia) chesterense, M. & W. 



Shell small, obliquely conical, more or less arched ; apex sometimes 

 rather attenuate, curved or directed backwards so as to stand nearly over the 

 posterior margin ; anterior and lateral sides expanding rather rapidly from 

 near the apex; aperture irregularly subcircular ; lip margin more or less 

 undulated. Surface marked by fine undulating concentric striae of growth, 

 and usually with about five rather broad radiating furrows that extend from 

 the lip to the middle or above, so as to leave between them five broad obtuse 

 ridges, which are themselves sometimes faintly divided into smaller irregular 

 costae near the margin of the lip. 



Height, or length, measuring from the anterior basal margin obliquely to the 

 apex, 0*66 inch ; transverse breadth of aperture, 0-55 inch; longitudinal do. 

 of same, 0.53 inch. 



The most marked feature about this little shell is the rather general pres- 

 ence of about five radiating furrows extending sometimes from near the apex 

 to the margin, so as to divide the surface inlo about five broad ridges, some- 

 times themselves faintly subdivided. This character is not in all cases dis- 

 tinctly defined, though the specimens generally show indications of it, while 

 in some instances it is a very conspicuous feature. In this character it is much 

 like the Burlington group species, P. quincijense, of McChesney, from which, 

 however, it is distinguished by its much smaller size, more rapid expansion 

 and more arcuate oblique form. 



It is a specimen apparently of this species to which we have already alluded 

 as being attached to the side of a Penlremites Godoni. 'J'he individual so at- 

 tached is less attenuate, and has the five furrows less defined than the typical 

 specimens of the species, but it nevertheless seems to belong to this species. 



Loculiti/ and position. — Chester division of the Subcarboniferous series, 

 Chester, Illinois ; also in same position Pope county. III. 



Platyceras (Ortiionycuia) subplicatum, M. & W. 



Shell small, depressed conical, somewhat oblique, rapidly expanding from 

 a subcentral apex; anterior slope slightly convex; posterior and lateral 

 slopes straight or a little concave ; aperture subcircular ; adductor muscular 

 scars finely striated and placed a little above tlie middle on each side ; elongate- 

 subovate or sublunate, being a little arched, with the larger end forward and 

 raised slightly higher than the other, and the posterior ends connected by a 

 linear depression running around behind ; surface (of casts) with a few large, 

 irregular radiating folds or plications extending from the margins of the aper- 

 ture more than half way up towaids the apex. 



Height, 0-36 inch ; antero-posterior diameter, 0-63 inch ; transverse, do., 

 0-5(5 inch. 



We have only seen internal casts of this species, which probably do not give 

 a very correct idea of the nature of the apex, which in the casts is rather ob- 

 tuse and merely directed somewhat obliquely backwards and upwards. Iq 

 perfect shells it is doubtless pointed and more or less incurved. The plications 

 of the surface are obtuse and rather obscure in the internal casts. The sur- 

 1866.] 




266 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



face of the shell is probahly also marked with more or leas distinct lines of 

 growth. The internal casts show very satisfactorily the muscular soars. 



This species has somewhat the general form of P. jUsurdhi, of Hall, but 

 is smaller, less obliciue, and differs in the possession of large radiating 

 l^lieations. 



Locality and position same as last. 



PLATYCEaAs (Outiionychia) infctndibulum, M. & W. 



Plati/ceros suhrectnm, Hall, 1860. Supplement to Iowa Report, page ], of 

 additional sheet ; (not P. subrectum, Hall, 1859. Twelfth Report Regents 



Univ., N. Y., p. 18.) 



Shell straight, more or less elongate-conical, very slightly oblique, attenuate 

 rear the straight subcentral apex, thence expan(iing, at first gradually, then 

 more rapidly to the irregularly subcircular or suboval aperture ; lip tliin and 

 irregularly undulated, as if to correspond to an uneven surface of attachment. 

 Surface with more or less distinct, undulating, concentric striae, and n( ar the 

 lip stronger marks or laminae of growth; also generally with a few large, 

 irregular, undefined, radiating plications. 



Length, 1-40 inch ; breadth about 1'30 inch. 



As remarked by Prof. Hall, this species varies considerably in the degree of 

 expansion, some specimens being much more attenuated than others. It is 

 probable that in very young individuals the immediate apex may have been 

 curved or subspiral, but in all those we have seen it is straight, sometimes a 

 little compressed, and only removed from a central position by the slight 

 general obliquity of the wliole shell without any curve. In some respects it 

 is similar to P. cjuinci/ense, of McChesney, from the Burlington division of the 

 Subcarboniferous series. It difiers, however, even when, as is sometimes the 

 case, it is nearly as strongly plicated as that shell, in its more irregular, less 

 attenuate form and rougher surface, as well as in not having its folds or pli- 

 cations forming five regular, broad ridges, more or less flattened and concave 

 along their middle. 



From P. Jismrella, Hall, the ?hell here described differs in being less de- 

 pressed or more attenuate, particularly near the apex, which is never oblique 

 as in that species. 



Prof. Hall had described the species under consideration, in the supplemen- 

 tary sLieet quoted above, but as he by an oversight gave it the same specific 

 name {suhrectum.) he had previously applied to another species from the upper 

 Helderbeig rocks of New York, it becomes necessary, in order to prevent con- 

 fusion, that our Illinois species should receive another name, and hence we 

 propose to call it P. infundihulum. 



From the same locality and position with the above, we have a single speci- 

 men differing from the others in beinf;: greatly more slender and elongated. It 

 is perfectly straight, somewhat compressed laterally and about twice as long 

 as wide, being very attenuate above the middle and but slightly expanded be- 

 low. It is an internal cast, showing no surface markings, but preserving the 

 transversely elongate-oval muscular scar on each side, apparently connected 

 by a slen-der band behind. It is not possible to determine be.yond doubt 

 whether this is a distinct species or only a variety of that described above, 

 without having more specimens for comparison. Should it prove distinct, 

 however, we would propose to call it Platyceras (Orthonychia) extinctor, in 

 allusion to its resemblance in form to a candle extinguisher. 



Locality and position. — Keokuk division of the Subcarboniferous series, 

 Warsaw, Illinois. 



Genus METOPTOMA, Phillips, 1836. 



From Phillips's figures, and very brief diagnosis of the genus Metoptoma,* it 



* " Patelliform, face under the apex truncate." Geol. Yoiks, 11, p. 223. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



is evident he intended it to include only those patelliform palaeozoic shells 

 with the posterior side more or less truncated. Mr. Billings, however, and 

 some others extend it so as to include circular or oval species, showing no 

 traces of the posterior truncation, such as were referred hy Phillips and others 

 to Patella. Although it is probable the typical truncated and the oval or cir- 

 cular species without tlie posterior truncation represent two distinct genera, 

 it is perhaps impracticable in our present state of knowledge to separate these 

 groups, owing to the fact that there are so many intermediate forms ; while 

 it is very rarely indeed that we can know anything in regard to the interior 

 of these fossil shells. 



Phillips says nothing respecting the muscular impressions of his typical 

 species, but his figure oi M. ohlonga, which seems to represent an internal cast, 

 shows apparently a horse-shoe shaped scar, like that seen in Capidus, Hip- 

 ponyx^ and the allied genera. Prof, de Koninck has also shown (Sup. An. Fos.," 

 pi. Iviii, fig. 1 and 2) this scar very clearly in M. pileus of Phillips, and M. 

 Solaris, = (Pat el/a Solaris, de Kon.) From these figures it is evident, as ob- 

 served by Prof, de Koninck, that the open end of the horse-shoe shaped scar is 

 directed away from the truncated side of the shell, showing that the truncated 

 side is the posterior instead of the anterior, as supposed by Phillips. 



Metoptoma (Platyceras?) umbblla, M. & W. 



Shell much depressed or patelliform, circular in outline ; apex central or 

 very nearly so ; sides sloping about equally, with generally a slight concavity, 

 in all directions ; surface marked by fine lines and obscure wrinkles of growth. 

 Muscular scar on each side, elongate-oval and somewhat arched downwards, 

 with a narrower band connecting them behind. 



Length and breadth each about 1*70 iijjch ; height about 0*70 inch. 



Although not an uncommon shell, we have never seen a specimen of this 

 species with the apex entire, though insome of the casts it looks as if it may have 

 been suddenly projecting and. possibly curved. Hence, we are in doubt 

 whether it may not fall more properly within the genus Plaiijceras, though it 

 is much more depressed and expanded than any species of that genus known 

 to us. As a general thing, the specimens are regularly circular or slightly 

 oval, and without traces of the peculiar truncation of the typical forms of 

 Metoptoma, though some of them seem to show obscure indications of it in the 

 slightly less prominent outline of the margin on one side. 



On one single partly- worn specimen, apparently agreeing in other respects 

 with the others, there are indications of small, irregular radiating costse on 

 the lower half of apparently the anterior side. This may possibly be a dis- 

 tinct species, but we cannot be sure of this without more specimens for com- 

 parison, since the typical specimens are mostly internal casts. 



Prof. Winchell has described, from the Kinderhook beds at Burlington, 

 Iowa (Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., July, 1865), a somewhat similar 

 species, but judging from its measurements, it must be distinctly less depressed 

 than our shell, and differs in being " contracted at the aperture," 



Locality and posi^'on.— -Burlington division of the Subcarboniferous series, 

 Quincy, Illinois ; also in same position on Houey Creek, Henderson county, 

 Illinois. 



POLYPHEMOPSIS CHRYSALLIS, M. & W. 



Shell subfusiform ; spire conical, moderately elevated, pointed at the apex ; 

 volutions nine, a little convex and increasing gradually in size, last one form- 

 ing about two-thirds the entire length and moderately produced below ; suture 

 distinct ; aperture narrow suboval, acutely angular above and narrowly 

 effuse below ; inner lip apparently wanting ; columella a little arched and 

 twisted ; surface showing only very faint traces of lines of growth. 



Length, 0*55 inch; breadth, '23 inch ; apical angle convex on the slopes, 

 divergence about 40*^. 



1866] 




2G8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This spt»oiVs hna nearly the form of Loxoncma Ncwherrij)., of Stevens (an 

 fli^ngatt'd Mitcroche hia), but is much smaller, and wants the characteristio 

 thit.-k('niii<r and fold of the columella seen in that species. In size it agrees 

 more nearly with our Poliiphejiwpsis i.rioniata, fmrn a higlier position in the 

 ooal-meHSures at Springfield, Illinois. It has its body volution more produced 

 below, and less disposed to become subangular around the middle ; while the 

 slopes of its spire are more convex in outline, owing to the proportionally 

 larger size of the middle whorls. Tins latter character gives it the chrysalis-like' 

 form that sufjgested the specific name. 



Loca/iti/ and poshion.^=-Rodge^B Creek, Macoupeu County, 111. Lower Coal- 

 Measures. 



Naticopsis Littonana, var. genevirvensis. 



Natica Littonana, Hall, 1856. Trans. Abany Inst., vol. iv. (p. 30, of 

 extract.) 



The shell we here place provisionally as a variety of Natica Littonana, 

 Ilall (a true Naticopsis), agrees almost exactly with authentic examples of 

 that species from the original locality, excepting that it attains some six or 

 eight times the size of the largest of the Indiana specimens, and yet has the 

 same number (four) of whorls. Some of the specimens have the oblique 

 lines rather more distinctly defined around the upper side of the body whorl 

 than we have seen on any of the typical examples of Naticopsis Lit- 

 tonana, but this mi^ht be expected from their much larger size. These lines, 

 however, are quite distinct on some of the unworn specimens of N Liltonana, 

 from Spergen Hill. 



Our specimens of the shell under consideration show the inner lip to be 

 little thickened and very smooth, while the columella is moderately flattened. 

 The surface is quite smooth up to the area below the suture, marked by the 

 oblique, very regular striae, which terminate very regularly and abruptly at 

 their outer extremities. In worn specimens these Hues, however, are entirely 

 obsolete. It is not impossible that this may prove to be a distinct species 

 from the N. Littonana, though we here place it provisionally as a variety 

 of that species. 



Length, 0-73 inch ; breadth, 0"67 inch ; apical angle about 115°. 



Locality and position.— St. Genevieve County, Missouri, and Randolph 

 County. Illinois, Chester division of the Subcarboniferous series. 



Genus ANOMPHALUS, M. & W. 



Shell depressed, sublenticular, imperforate, smooth and without a spiral band ; 

 volutions somewhat embracing above, and each hiding all the preceding ones 

 below ; aperture wider than high ; peristome not continuous ; labium simple 

 and without a notch or sinus, projecting forward above ; labium a little sinu- 

 ous and slightly spreading in the more or less impressed umbilical region. 



The type for which this genus is proposed is a little shell having somewhat 

 the aspect of a Rotella, but wanting the callus seen filling the umbilical im- 

 pression in that genus. At a first glance it might be mistaken for a small 

 Straparollus, but on examining the underside it is seen to be entirely without 

 an umbilicus, though slightly impressed in the middle ; while its lip continues 

 in below nearly to the centre, where it is abruptly deflected upwards, becomes 

 a little thickened, somewhat spreading and more or less sinuous, much as we 

 see on each side of some species of Be/lerophon. 



We have little doubt but this genus belongs to the RoteUidce, which was 

 certainly represented during the deposition of the palseozoic rocks, apparently 

 even by the typical genus Rotella, — the well known DuvonisLn Ilelicites helicini- 

 formis of Schlotheim being apparently a true Rotella. 



Anomphalus kotulus, M. & W. 

 Shell small, depressed, sublenticular, narrowly rounded on the periphery ; 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 269 



spire scarcely visible above the body whorl in a side view ; volutions three 

 and a half to four, increasing moderately in breadth, hist one sloping with a 

 moderate convexity between the suture and the periphery, and slightly ex- 

 cavated in the umbilical region ; suture not impressed ; aperture transversely 

 suboval, being rounded on the outer side and straightened on the lower half of 

 the inner side, but modified by the return of the body whorl above. Surface 

 showing scarcely any traces of lines of growth, even under a good magnifier. 

 (Type of the genus.) 



Breadth of a large specimen 0-19 inch; height 0-07 inch. 



Locality and position. — Hodge's creek, Macoupen County, Illinois ; Lower 

 Coal Measures. 



Genus Microdoma, M. & W. 



Shell small, rather thick, conical, imperforate, composed of flattened whorls, 

 the last one of which is more or less angular around tlie middle and little pro- 

 duced below ; aperture about as high as wide ; outer lip simple, straight, and 

 oblique in outline ; columella without folds or plications ; inner lip thin and 

 slightly reflexed at the base of the columella. Surface with revolving nodu- 

 lar ridges. 



We have for several years past had under consideration a number of good 

 specimens of the little shell, for the reception of which this genus is proposed, 

 but delayed publishing a description of it because we were iu doubt respect- 

 ing its generic relations. At a first glance it presents much the appearance of 

 a Murchisonia, or a raUier elongated Pleurotomxria ; but even where the outer 

 lip is broken awa.y, so that the sinus characteristic of these genera could not 

 be seen if it had existed, an examination under a good lense shows 

 that it has no revolving band, and that its lines of growth are without the 

 peculiar curve in passing across the whorls, so invariably accompanying the 

 sinus in the lip of Marchisonia and other sh( lis of that type. It also resembles 

 some of the small, short species of Turritella, but in addition to its shorter, 

 trochiform outline, its outer lip presents an obliquity and straightness of out- 

 line that imparts a peculiar appearance to the aperture, not seen in that genus. 

 From our genus Orllionema, with which it is associated in the rocks, it differs, 

 not only iu its shorter trochiform outline and nodular revolving ridges, but 

 also in its very oblique lines of growth and the consequent obliquity of its 

 outer lip. 



It is not easy to determine the family affinities of this type, but it may pos- 

 sibly belong to the Littorinidoa. It is probable that Pleuratomaria serrilimha 

 and P. biseriata, of Pi)illips, referred by Prof, de Koninck to the genus Trochus, 

 may belong to this genus. We doubt the existence of the genus Trochus, 

 as properly restricted to such types as the recent T. luloticus, Linnseus, during 

 the Carboniferous epoch. 



Microdoma conica, M. & W. 



Shell rather elongate conical or subtrochiform ; volutions seven, flattened 

 on a line with the slope of the spire, increasing rather gradually in size— last 

 one not much produced below the mesial angle, where it is only marked by 

 minute strise of growth ; suture rather deep ; aperture quadrato-suborbicular. 

 Surface ornamented by three distinct, revolving, nodular ridges, the largest 

 and lowest of which occupies the mesial angle of the body whorl, and passes 

 around immediately above the suture of the wliorls of the spire, while the 

 upper one occupies the upper margin of all the whorls just below the suture, 

 and the third one passes around midway between the others. Lines of growth 

 small and crossing the flattened sloping sides of each whorl obliquely, so as 

 to indicate a distinct forward extension of the outer lip at its connection with the 

 body whorl above. Nodes of the revolving angles small, closely and regularly 

 arranged on the difl'erent ridges, so as to form oblique rows parallel to the 

 lines of growth. 



Length, 0-21 inch ; breadth, 0*12 inch ; apical angle, 36®. 



1866.] 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This species seems to be much like Plcuratomnria serriUmhn, of Phillips, 

 jndginj:c from his figure, (Cicol. Yorks. 11, pi, xv. fig. 30) ; but it is utterly im- 

 possible to make satisfactory comparisons with species so briefly described and 

 poorly figured, without having access to authentic specimens. 



Localiti/ and position. — Macoupen County, III. Lower Coal Measures. 



Orthonema conica, M. & W. 



Shell elongate conical, thin. Volutions (in adult shells) about nine, flcttened 

 nearly on a line with the slope of the spire, or but slightly convex; lower 

 ones sometimes a little projecting at their lower margins immediately above 

 the suture ; last one distinctly angular around the middle, and but moderately 

 produced below the angle, where it is a little couvex. Umbilical region not 

 indented. Suture generally well definedbetween the lower whorls, and merely 

 linear above. Aperture rhombic subquadrate. Surface showing, under a 

 magnifier, small, very slightly oblique lines of growth, which are sometimes 

 crossed on the middle of the flattened outer slope of the body whorl, by very 

 faint traces of two revolving ridges, and below the angle, on the under side, 

 by traces of another revolving ridge. 



Length, 0-70 inch; breadth, 0-30 inch; apical angle a little convex on its 

 slopes, divergence about 30°. 



This species will be readily distinguished from our 0. Salleri, from the 

 same locality and position, by its larger size, smaller number of whorls, 

 greater apical angle, and particularly by never having the two linear revolv- 

 ing ridges just below the suture, so characteristic of that species. As men- 

 tioned in the description, it sometimes, though rarely, shows traces of two 

 very obscure revolving ridges on the flattened part of the body whorl, but 

 these are midway between its principal angle and the suture, while those on 

 0. Salteri are always very distinct, and placed just below the suture. The 

 principal angle on the body whorl of 0. Salteri is also much more distinct, 

 being a true carina. 



From the several species of Polyphemopsis of our coal-measures, such as our 

 F. inornata, P. per acuta, &c., which it somewhat resembles, this species will 

 be distinguished by its angular body whorl ; and particularly by not having 

 this whorl produced below, and its columella curved outwards and trunca- 

 ted, so as to produce the peculiar effuse character of the base of the aperture 

 seen in that genus. 



Locality and position. — Hodge's Creek, Macoupen County, 111. Lower Coal 

 Measures. 



TrOCHITA ? CABBONARIA, M. &. W. 



Shell small, depressed trochiform, or broadly conical, about twice as wide 

 as high, circular in outline as seen from above ; periphery alate and very 

 sharp, not serrate or crenate ; apex central, mammillated ; volutions about 

 five, flattened or a little concave in the middle ; suture merely represented by 

 a nearly obsolete line scarcely visible without the aid of a magnifier ; aper- 

 ture unknown ; umbilicus small, infundibuliform. Surface smooth on the 

 upper whorls, but showing moderately distinct, extremely oblique lines of 

 growth on the last turn. 



Breadth, 0-35 inch ; height, 0-17 inch ; apical angle about 105°. 



This little shell resembles quite nearly Trochella prisca, of McCoy, from the 

 Carboniferous limestone of Ireland ; from which it differs in its much smaller 

 size, and moderately distinct lines of growth. So far as we know, it is the 

 first shell of this type ever found in our American Palaeozoic rocks. Its alate 

 margin seems to project as a sharp rim around the periphery, and the general 

 aspect of the shell is very like that of the genus Fhorus, though we have been 

 unable to see any indications of foreign bodies being attached to the margin. 

 We are not sure, however, but we would be nearer right in calling it Fhorus 

 carbonarius, or Onusius carbonarius. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Locality and position. — St. Genevieve Co., Missouri; Chester division of the 

 Subcarboniferous series. 



Platyschisma helicoides, Sowerby? (sp.) 

 The specimens before us agree so exactly with the figures and descriptions 

 of Sowerby's Ampullaria (^Globulus) helicoides, from the English Mountain lime- 

 stone, that we are completely at a loss to find any characters by which it can 

 be distinguished. The largest of them are somewhat smaller than the aver- 

 age size of English specimens, and none of them are so depressed as the form 

 for which Phillips proposed the name Natica elongata; their outline being 

 more nearly like Sowerby's fig. 2, pi. 522, Min. Con. On comparison with 

 specimens of the Belgian form from Tournay (usually referred to Sowerby's 

 species), which they never equal in size, and which seem to us probably dis- 

 tinct from the English species, they are found to differ in having the whorls 

 less rounded above, and the revolving striae within the small umbilicus coarser. 

 The surface is quite smooth, the apex rather obtuse, and some of the speci- 

 mens show indications of the faint sinus in the outer lip, which has caused the 

 European specimens to be sometimes referred to the genus Pleurotoma.ria. 

 There are no traces of a spiral band, however, and some individuals seem to 

 have had no notch or sinus in the lip. 



Locality and position. — Chester limestone, of the Subcarboniferous series, St. 

 Genevieve Co , Missouri ; where it is quite abundant, and occurs with a Nau- 

 tilus [Tremato discus) we cannot distinguish from N. sidcatus, Sowerby. 



Pleurotomaria conoides, M. & W. 



Shell small, regularly conoid-trochiform, longer than wide, the breadth be- 

 ing to the length about as five to six. Volutions five or six, increasing regu- 

 larly and rather gradually in size, — all obliquely flattened nearly parallel 

 to the slope of the spire, though the lower margin of each projects at the 

 suture slightly beyond the upper edge of the succeeding one below ; last one 

 angular around the periphery at the base, and flattened on the under side at 

 less than a right angle to the oblique slope above, but rounding abruptly into 

 the minute umbilical perforation within. Aperture rhombic quadrangular, 

 with nearly equal length and breadth ; inner lip straight and parallel to the 

 axis of the shell below, but Qurving out abruptly at its base. Surface orna- 

 mented with small, regular, oblique, arching striae on the upper sloping sides 

 of the whorls, and minute sigmoid lines, crossed near the periphery by faint 

 traces of a few revolving striae, on the under side of the body whorl. Spiral 

 band narrow, located at, or slightly above the periphery of the body volution, 

 and passing around its own breadth above the suture on the whorls of the 

 spire ; margined above and below by a raised line. 



Length, 0-27 inch ; breadth, 0-23 inch ; apical angle regular, divergence 

 about 50°. 



This species belongs to the trochiform section of the genus, including PZew- 

 rotom aria ohtusispir a, SiXid P. -R2WeZZ«, Shumard ; P. turhiniformis, M. & W., 

 and P. Missouriensis, Swallow, (sp.) It differs from all these shells, however, 

 in being much smaller, although composed of about the same number of 

 whorls ; while it also differs from them all excepting the P. obtusispira in hav- 

 ing no revolving striae on the upper side of its whorls, and from that species 

 in having a more elevated spire, and rather coarse, instead of " extremely fine, 

 striae of growth " on the upper slope of its whorls. In form and general ap- 

 pearance it resembles quite nearly Trochus coniformis, de Koninck (An. Foss. 

 pi. xxxvii. fig. 4, a, b,)* but differs in wanting the spiral striae, and of course 

 in the possession of a distinct, but narrow spiral band. ' 



*This shell resembles so closely in form, surface markings and general outline, several of our 

 American Carboniferous species of Pleurotomaria, that in case it had been described by a less ex- 

 perienced palaeontologist than I'rof. de Koninck, we should have suspected it to belong to that 

 genus instead of bL-ing a true Trochus. In our Pleurotomaria turbiniformis, for instance, and the 

 beautiful species described by Prof. Swallow under the name Trochus Missouriensis, the spiral 

 band is »o very narrow and inconspicuous as to be easily overlooked, when the margin of the lip 

 is broken away. 



1866.] 




272 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Loeality and position. — Hodge's Creek, Macoupen County, 111. Lower Coal 

 Measures. 



Plkuuotomaria Coxana, M. & W. 



Shell attaining a large size, obliquely conoid subtrochiform, longer than 

 wide; spire turreted, forming rather more than half the entire length. Vo- 

 lutions six to seven, convex, very prominent or obtusely subangular below the 

 middle, at which point those of the spire project out over the suture ; all flat- 

 tened or slightly concave above, with an outward slope of about 35° to the 

 axis, from the suture to the most prominent part, where the spiral band is 

 placed ; below this the underside is rounded convex to the small umbilical 

 perforation. Suture strongly defined by the convexity of the whorl just 

 above it. Aperture subquadrate. approaching subcircular in adult shells. 

 Surface ornamented by exceedingly fine, regular lines of growth, that run 

 very obliquely backwards, with a slight forward curve in passing down the 

 sloping upper side from the suture to the spiral band at the most prominent 

 part of the whorls ; between this and the umbilical perforation below they 

 make a backward curve. Casts also show some traces of much stronger re- 

 volving lines in the umbilical region. 



As is not uncommon in species of this type, the divergence of the apical 

 angle varies considerably with age, being greater in young than adult shells. 

 In internal casts there is a moderately distinct umbilical perforation, which 

 seems to be very small, or nearly closed in specimens retaining the shell. 

 The lines of growth are exceedingly fine and regular, without any traces of 

 revolving striae, excepting near the umbilicus, and we are not sure they really 

 exist there, as ox\\y traces of apparently such lines have been seen. 



This shell will be readily distinguished from all of those known to us, ap- 

 proaching it in size, such as P. tabulata, Conrad, and P. subscalaris, M. & W., 

 by its more oblique form, more sloping and less angular whorls, as well as 

 by the absence of any traces of revolving striae on the upper slope of its whorls. 



The specific name is given in honor of Prof, E. T. Cox, of New Harmony, 

 Indiana, to whom we are indebted for the use of the best specimen of the spe- 

 cies we have seen. 



Locality and ^^onition. — Iron ore beds of Lower Coal Measures, at Nolan's 

 Furnace, Edmondson Co., Kentucky. 



Pleurotomaria spironema, M. & W. 



Shell rather under medium size, subglobose, its length and breadth being 

 nearly equal. Volutions five to six, increasing rather rapidly in size ; those 

 of the spire convex; the last one forming more than four-fifths of the entire 

 length, and as much as nine-tenths the entire bulk of the shell, — rounded 

 regularly from the suiure above to the umbilical region below, excepting 

 near the aperture, where it is a little more prominent below than above the 

 middle. Suture well defined. Aperture subcircular in general outline, but 

 rather strongly modified above the middle on the inner side, by the return of 

 the body whorl. Inner lip slightly thickened and deeply arcuate below, but 

 wanting or exceedingly thin above the middle of the aperture ; columella tortu- 

 ous, with a slightly impressed furrow at the outer margin of the inner lip, 

 but without an umbilical perforation. Surface ornamented with regular, dis- 

 tinct revolving striae, crossed just below the suture by short little regular node- 

 like folds, confined to the narrow space between the suture and the spiral band ; 

 similar, but smaller, more crowded and longer curved wrinkles also radiate 

 from the umbilical region, on the under side of the body whorl. Lines of 

 growth obscure on all the specimens examined. Spiral band flattened so as 

 to be even with the general surface, nearly smooth, and placed half-way be- 

 tween the middle of the body whorl and the suture above, or about once and 

 a half its own breadth below the suture. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Length and breadth of a medium sized specimen, each 0-45 inch ; length of 

 aperture, 0-25 inch; breadth of do., 0-23 inch ; apical angle convex, diverg- 

 ence, 90° ; breadth of spiral band at the aperture 0-07 inch. 



This species is nearly related to P. Beckwithana of McChesney (New Palaeo- 

 zoic fossils, p. 61), with which we supposed it to be identical from Prof. 

 McChesney's description, until we had an opportunity to compare it with 

 good examples of the P. Beckwithana from the original locality. On com- 

 parison with these, we find our shell to be readily distinguished by having 

 its spiral band located midway between the middle and upper margin of the 

 body whorl, instead of passing around the middle of the outer side. It like- 

 wise differs in showing no traces of revolving striae on the spiral band, and 

 in having small wrinkles crossing the revolving striae on the underside of the 

 body whorl, while the little wrinkles around the upper edge of the whorls 

 are stronger and shorter than in P, Beckwithana. Again there is a differ- 

 ence in the revolving striae, those of our shell never having an intermediate 

 smaller one between two larger ones, as is generally the case with those of 

 McChesney's species. 



The close similarity between these two species, both in form and ornamen- 

 tation, shows the necessity for great care and precision in drawing up de- 

 scriptions of species, even where they may be widely different from all known 

 forms ; since we often find, in such cases, that other species are afterwards dis- 

 covered that cannot be distinguished by the original description from the 

 forms first described. Every word in Prof. McChesney's description, except- 

 ing what is said in regard to the starting point of the spiral band, would ap- 

 ply equally well to our species. It is true, he gives the number of whorls as 

 four or five, while in our shell they may be described as numbering five or 

 six, but of course little reliance can be placed upon a difference of only one 

 whorl, where they are all counted to the extreme apex. 



Locality and position, — Lower Coal Measures, on Hodge's Creek, Macoupen 

 County, Illinois. 



Pleueotomaria valvatipormis, M. & W. 



Shell minute, depressed, or about twice as wide as high ; volutions three 

 and a half to four, regularly rounded, and increasingrather gradually in size ; 

 suture well defined in consequence of the convexity of the whorls ; umbilicus 

 proportionally small or closed ; aperture suborbicular, being a little straighter 

 on the inner side. Spiral band nearly or quite even with the surface of the 

 whorls, and placed on the middle of their outer side. Surface smooth, as 

 seen without a magnifier, but presenting traces of microscopic revolving striae, 

 in a good light under a strong lens. 



Height, 0-04 inch ; breadth, 008 inch. 



This is by far the smallest species of the genus we have ever seen^ and if it 

 were not for the fact that we find so many specimens of it not exceeding the 

 dimensions given above, we would think might be a young shell. This, how- 

 ever, taken in connection with the absence, so far as yet known, of any spe- 

 cies in our carboniferous rocks agreeing near enough for this to be its young, 

 are sufficient reasons for believing it to be an adult shell. It is more nearly 

 like our P. micronema of this paper than any of its associates with which we 

 are acquainted, but in addition to its vastly smaller size (although having 

 nearly the same number of whorls), it differs in being much more depressed, 

 and in having proportionally much more slender whorls ; while its spiral 

 band passes around the middle of the body whorl, instead of between the 

 middle and the upper margin. In the position of its band it is nearer like 

 P. Beckwithana of McChesney, but differs so widely in size, and other charac- 

 ters, as to render a close comparison unnecessary. 



Locality and position, — Hodge's Creek, Macoupen County, 111. Lower CoaL 

 Measures. 



1866.] 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



MUROniSONlA INORNATA, M. & W. 



Shell very small, conic subovate ; axis imperforate'; spire short (for a Mur- 

 chiaonia). Volutions six, convex, increasing rather gradually in size, last one 

 forming more than half the entire shell, most prominent around the middle, 

 but not even obtusely angular, a little produced below ; suture impressed. 

 Aperture slightly oblique, subovate in outline, being angular above, and 

 rounded and apparently faintly effuse below. Spiral band not distinguishable 

 from the general surface of the whorls, excepting from the curve of the minute 

 lines of growth, as seen by the aid of a magnifier; apparently of moderate 

 breadth, and placed about half-way between the middle and upper side of the 

 body whorl, passing around near the middle of those of the spire. Surface 

 appearing nearly smooth to the eye, but when examined with a lyiagnifier, 

 seen to be ornamented with small obscure revolving striae, most distinct be- 

 low the middle of the body whorl ; crossing these, traces of very minute lines 

 of growth may be seen, by the aid of a good lens in a favorable light, curving 

 strongly backwards as they approach an undefined spiral band. 



Length, 0-22 inch ; breadth, 0-13 inch ; apical angle about 38°. 



This is one of those intermediate forms, that might, so far as can be deter- 

 mined from the shell, be referred with almost equal propriety to either J/wr- 

 chisonia or Pleurotoviaria. Although we have placed it in the former genus, 

 we are not sure but we should call it Fleurotomaria inornata. It will be readily 

 •distinguished from all the little species of either of these genera known to 

 us, that have neither costate nor carinated whorls, by its nearly smooth 

 surface and obsolete spiral band. Excepting in its much smaller size, and less 

 produced body whorl, it has somewhat the look of Murchisonia melanoides, de 

 Koninck, (An. Foss. pi. iii. sup. fig. 14, a, b,) but the more produced lower 

 part of the body whorl of that shell gives its aperture a different form, while 

 it has a well defined spiral band occupying a lower position on the whorls, 

 and no traces of revolving lines. 



Locality and position. — Hodge's Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Lower 

 Coal Measures. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Nautilus [Trematodiscus] sulcatus, Sowerby ? 



Amongst other specimens from the Chester group of St. Genevieve County, 

 Missouri, we have several examples of a small JVautilus, agreeing so nearly 

 with Sowerby's iV. sulcatus that we are strongly inclined to believe it identi- 

 cal with that species. It attains about the same size, has a similar umbilicus, 

 the same number of whorls, with the same number of furrows and intermedi- 

 ate ridges on each side, and like that species has a small, nearly central si- 

 phon ; while it also agrees in the size and flexures of its lines o£ growth, as 

 well as in the variations it presents. The only differences we can see are 

 that our shell seems to have the whorls generally more compressed, and its 

 furrows and ridges sometimes more obsolescent on the outer volution of the 

 larger specimens. Still it generally agrees quite as nearly with the typical 

 forms of that species, as those usually referred to it by the most reliable 

 European authorities, and even more nearly than many of these do with each 

 other. (Prof, de Koninck's description of JH. sulcatus agrees exactly with our 

 shell.) Its lines of growth make so strong a backward curve in crossing the 

 slightly concave, rather narrow periphery, that we were at first inclined to 

 think it a large Forcellia, but a closer examination soon satisfied us that it is 

 septate, and provided with a small, nearly central siphon. In short, it is a 

 typical example of the group for which we proposed the subgeneric name Tre- 

 matodiscus. 



We are not aware of this species having been previously identified in Ame- 

 rica. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Nautilus (Ceyptoceras) rookfordbnsis, M. & W. • 



As the only specimen of this shell we have seen consists of not more than 

 half of a volution, we are left in some doubt whether it is a Cryptoceras or a 

 Gyroceras. Its volutions were evidently not embracing, as they are not at all 

 concave on the inner side, but rounded all around, so as to present a slightly 

 oval, or subelliptic section, the transverse diameter of which is to the dorso- 

 ventral, as 132 to 110. The half volution curves aroutid an umbilical cavity 

 apparently rather more than half as wide as the greatest dorso-ventral diame- 

 ter of the volution at the same point. The siphon, although not quite in con- 

 tact with the dorsal side, is so near it as to give the internal cast the appear- 

 ance of having a small deep dorsal lobe. The septa are distant, measuring, 

 on the dorsal side, about two-fifths the dorso-ventral diameter of the whorl 

 at the point of measurement, and their edges pass almost directly around 

 the whorls. (Surface, number of whorls and aperture unknown.) 



Length of a half turn, including a small portion of the last chamber, meas- 

 uring around the dorsum, 3-78 inches ; greatest transverse diameter at the 

 larger end, 1-80 inch ; dorso-ventral do., 1-60 inch. 



It is probable, judging from analogy, that the lip of this species, in entire 

 specimens, will be found to be pinched out or projecting laterally on each ven- 

 tro-lateral margin of the aperture, as in some other species of this type. We 

 know of no other species with which it is liable to be confounded. 



Locality and position. — Goniatite limestone, of the Kinderhook division of 

 the Subcarboniferous series, at Rockford, Indiana. 



Note. — In the August number of the Proceedings of the Academy for 1865, 

 p. 165, we proposed the name Evactinopora^ for a curious radiated body, evi- 

 dently belonging to the Polyzoa, from the carboniferous rocks of Missouri. 

 Since that time, farther comparisons lead us to think this fossil possibly 

 not generically distinct from Conodictyum of Miinster. If so, the name of our 

 species Will of course become Conodictyum radiatum. It is a little remarkable, 

 however, that the known species of Conodictyum are from Jurassic rocks. 



August 7ih. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



August 14:th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



August 21st. 

 The President^ Dr. Hats, in the Chair. 

 Twenty- two members present. 



Prof. Cope exhibited the remains of a gigantic extinct Dinosaur, from the 

 Cretaceous Green Sand of New Jersey. The bones were portions of the 

 under jaw with teeth, portions of the scapular arch, including supposed 

 clavicles ; two humeri, left femur, and right tibia and fibula, with numerous 



1866.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



phalnnjros, lumbar sacral and caudal vertebrae, and numerous other elements 

 iu a fragmentary condition. 



The animal was found by the workmen under direction of J. C. Voorhees, 

 Superintendent of the West Jersey Marl Company's pits, about two miles 

 south of Barnesboro, Gloucester Co., N. J. 



The bones were taken from about twenty feet below the surface, in the top 

 of the *• chocolate " bed, which immediately underlies the green stratum 

 which is of such value as a manure. 



The discovery of this animal filled a hiatus in the Cretaceous Fauna, re- 

 vealing the carnivbrous enemy of the great herbivorous Hadrosaurus, as the 

 Dinodon was related to the Trachodon of the Nebraska beds, and the Mega- 

 losaurus to the Iguanodon of the European Wealden and Oolite. 



In size this creature equalled the Megalosaurus bucklandii, and with 

 it and Dinodon, constituted the most formidable type of rapacious terrestrial 

 vertebrata of which we have any knowledge. In its dentition and huge pre- 

 hensile claws it resembled closely Megalosaurus, but the femur, resembling 

 in its proximal regions more nearly the Iguanodon, indicated the probable 

 existence of other equally important differences, and its pertinence to another 

 genus. For this and the species the name of Laelaps aquilunguis was 

 proposed. 



The following were some of the special characters. 



Mandible. — Two portions, one from the anterior part of the ramus. The 

 latter measure three inches in depth from the outer alveolar border, which is 

 a little more elevated than the internal, and 1.5 in. in thickness at the frac- 

 tured edge. A longitudinal series of vascular foramina extends along the 

 middle of the external face. The teeth are implanted in deep alveolae, had 

 oval compressed fangs, and lenticular compressed crown, with large pulp 

 cavity. The crown was elongate, subacute and slightly curved backwards, 

 minutely striate, and strongly serrate on both edges to near the fang ; this 

 portion of a young tooth yet in the alveolus measured 2|^in. long and ll-16ths 

 in transverse diameter. 



Left Femur. — The great external trochanter massive and elevated to the 

 plane of the head, from which it is only separated by a slight depression, and 

 to which it is slightly transverse. The head not projecting far beyond shaft, 

 and without constriction below. In Megalosaurus the head is produced be- 

 yond a kind of neck, and the great trochanter is much smaller and lower 

 down, differing thus from the other known Dinosaurs. The femur of Lae- 

 laps is therefore much flattened from before backwards above, but is cy- 

 lindrical and curved backwards medially. Distalfy the condyles are more 

 like Megalosaurus than Hadrosaurus or Iguanodon, yet quite different from 

 the first. The length of the inner condyle greater than the transverse ex- 

 tent of the two, the popliteal groove deeper and the trochlear aspect more 

 concave, leaving a narrower connection between the condyles. The inner 

 condyle was much narrower and both more projecting than in Megalosaurus. 

 The third trochanter is small, and lower down than in any known Dinosaur, 

 being removed less than one-third the length of the femur from the inner 

 distal condyle. 



In. 



Length of femur, 31 



Breadth across head and great trochanter,...^ 6f 



Circumference medially, ..11 



Antero-posterior length of inner distal condyle, 6.5 



«« " " outer " " 3.25 



Transverse extent of united condyle, , 4.5 



" " popliteal groove (at middle), 1.5 



Right tibia. — The tibia is more slender than that belonging to Megalosaurus 

 described by Prof. Owen, and the distal articular surface, instead of being 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 277 



lozenge-shaped, is cuneiform, the inner wide extremity oval rounded. In- 

 ner transverse breadth of proximal head one-fourth total length. Anterior 

 ridge very strong, much incurved, disappearing at between the proximal 

 fifth and fourth of length ; internal ridge on proximal half, strong, but not 

 reaching condyles. Posterior condyles separated by a deep notch, inner 

 larger than outer ; (outer larger, Megalosaurus bucklandii). Shaft much 

 compressed from before backwards, and distal articulation at right angles to 

 proximal, concave on its interior half. 



In. 



Length of tibia, 30.75 



Circumference proximal head, ,.. 15. 



Antero-posterior diameter do 7.5 



Posterior transverse do. do .... 5.5 



Transverse length distal condyle, 7, 



Longitudinal inner breadth, 2.5 



Circumference of shaft at middle, 10.5 



These long bones are hollow, with thick walls of dense bone ; diameter of 

 medullary cavity at middle of tibia 1.5 inch. 



Fibula. — Twenty-three inches preserved, proximally concave and dilated ; 

 condyle curved, narrow acuminate oval, in profile concave, then rounded 

 descending; length 6 in., median breadth 1.75 in. Just below the condyle 

 on the inside is a deep concavity with abrupt superior and lateral walls. Shaft 

 less flattened below, but slender, reaching a width of 1^ in. 



Humerus. — Both are preserved, but lack the distal condyle ; about half tha 

 olecranar fossa of one remains, furnishing an indication of the breadth of that 

 extremity. They are proximally much dilated, having a very strong postero- 

 external ala and a shorter antero-internal dilatation. They are not half the 

 length of the femur ; the shaft is flattened antero-internally. Of the proxi- 

 mal articulating surface the proper condyle is lost, but a narrow surface 

 continuous with it externally does not extend further out on the dilation than 

 opposite to the middle of the shaft. Olecranar fossa large and well marked, 

 not near to penetrating ; medullary cavity of shaft relatively smaller than in 

 the bones of the leg. 



In. 



Length of humerus (restored), 12 



Greatest proximal breadth, 3*75 



Distal breadth across olecranar fossa, 3. 



Circumference of shaft, 5.f 



These humeri are relatively shorter than in Hadrosaurus and Iguanodon, 

 and the external alae do not pass so abruptly into the shaft as in them. 



? Clavicles. — Two lateral elements are nearly similar to those identified by 

 Owen in Iguanodon with clavicles, and by Leidy in Hadrosaurus with the 

 pubes. Their disproportionate size, as compared with the humeri in Lae- 

 laps, renders their recognition as clavicles diflficult ; they are very unlike 

 usual forms of pubes. Each has a gentle sigmoid flexure, and a subtrigonal 

 section They are flattened at the inner extremity and dilated with a margin 

 at right angles to the shaft ; the whole extremity is not preserved ; the flat- 

 tened portion is hollow, while the shaft is entirely solid. Length 18.5 inches. 



Phalanges. — No. 1. An ungueal phalange of remarkable size and destruc- 

 tive use. The depth at the proximal articulation is about the same as in 

 Megalosaurus bucklandii, (two inches ^without inferior tuberosity) but 

 the length is considerably greater. Form everywhere compressed, especially 

 at tip, rounded above. Below the articulating surfaces is the point of in- 

 sertion of a large flexor tendon, a flattened subglobular process, separated 

 by a groove except in front. The groove extends on each side distally on 

 the middle, to the tip. The general form is not unlike that of a rapacious 

 bird, but is more compressed. 



1866.] 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In. 



Length on convexity, 94 



Chord from articuhitory surface, , 6f 



Surface slightly striated at the base on one side. 



No. 2. Penultimate. Proximally higher than broad, distally broader than 

 high ; two elevated articular surfaces proximally, distal condyles separated 

 by a deep groove and much prolonged inferiorly ; a fossa on each side ec- 

 centric to the condyle. Superior outline straight, inferior descending 

 behind. 



No. 3. Also penultimate, is flatter and more parallelogrammic in section 

 than the last. 



No. 4. Antepenult ? more cylindrical, condyles broken. 



In. 



Length, No. 2, 4.75 



Proximal elevation, 1.75 



« breadth below, 1.75 



Breadth shank below, 1.25 



Distal width, 1.25 



" " of condyles below, , 1.75 



No. 3, proximal breadth below, 2.125 



Breadth shank below, 1.50 



Terminal and inferior breadth distal condyles, 1.875 



No. 4. length, 6. 



Vertebra. — No cervical or dorsal vertebrae were preserved ; very few lum- 

 bars, a fragment of two of the connate sacrals and numerous caudals were 

 all as yet in Prof. C's possession. All are much constricted medially, or hour- 

 glass shaped, the centrum cylindrical in section throughout in most of the cau- 

 dals, the anterior of the latter and the lumbars of deeper vertical than trans- 

 verse diameter throughout. The articular surfaces were moderately shallow 

 biconcave in all, most strongly in the subproximal caudals. The neural arches 

 attached by permanent suture, and inferior surfaces for articulation of chev- 

 ron bones. None of the caudals offer indication of elevated neural spines; 

 they appear to have been on the majority low, and of considerable longi- 

 tudinal extent. Articular surfaces for chevron bones cease near the middle 

 of series, so that we can safely infer that the tail was cylindrical. Zyga- 

 pophyses turned upward, not outward. 



In. 



Length of a median caudal, 4.625 



Breadth centrum, 2.375 



Length base neural spine, 3.25 



Length of a distal caudal (with neural canal), 2.875 



Diameter centrum transverse, 1.125 



" " vertical, 875 



Proximal caudal (with short diapophysis) length, 4.5 



Depth centrum, 3.125 



Width, " 3. 



Lumbar, depth centrum, 4.5 



The disproportion between the fore and hind limbs of the Iguanodon, 

 together with the compressed form of the tail suggested to Prof. Owen an 

 aquatic habit, a relation of proportions of limbs to habit seen in the tailless 

 Batrachia. The discovery of the massive short-toed foot of the Iguanodon 

 subsequently, has lent little countenance to the supposition of its entire adap- 

 tation to aquatic life. Dr. Leidy has regarded this disproportion in the case 

 of the Hadrosaurus as an index of a habit like that of the Kangaroos (Macro- 

 pus, etc.), and that that monster rested in an oblique position on the hind 

 limbs and tail, and reached upwards with its muzzle and short fore limbs to 

 the foliage on which it fed. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



279 



That such a habit characterized the Laelaps is very probable ; the tail 

 was nearly cylindric, and from the extent of the condyles of the femur, the 

 hind limb must have been considerably flexed. The small size of the fore 

 limbs must have rendered them far less efficient as weapons than the hind 

 feet, in an attack on such a creature as Hadrosaurus ; hence perhaps the 

 latter were preferred in inflicting fatal wounds. The exceedingly eagle-like 

 character of the digits and claws and ornithic type of sacrum elucidated by 

 Prof. Owen, suggest a resemblance in the use of the limb. 



The bulk of the species, as compared with that of Hadrosaurus, illustrates 

 again the law observed in the relation between Felis and Bos, Thylacoleo 

 and the herbivorous implacentals of its time, and the other raptorial and 

 herbivorous Dinosauria, which might probably be reduced to exact terms. 



The remains indicate an animal of near 18 feet in length, which could pro- 

 bably raise itself to a height of six feet at the rump 



To recapitulate ; the genus Laelaps belongs to the family Din.odontidae, 

 which is characterized by its contractile raptorial claws and sleOT^r digits, 

 and compressed sabre-shaped teeth. It differs from Megalosaurus in its femur, 

 and from Dinodon in that teeth of the latter have two posterior serrate 

 edges separated by a posterior plane. From supposed Dinosaurian genera of 

 doubtful affinity, it differs e. g. from Regnosaurus Mant. in the totally different 

 humerus, and from Pelorosaurus and Streptospondylus in the vertebrae. Ce-, 

 tiosaurus and Cimoliasaurus were perhaps mutilate like the Cetaceans, accord- 

 ing to Owen and Leidy. 



In connection with the same fossil were found Cucullsea and Baculites sp., 

 and not more than twenty feet ofi" a femur of Hadrosaurus ; also portions of 

 Mosasaurus, Hyposaurus, Thoracosaurus and Bottosaurus, occurred in the 

 neighborhood. 



The phalanges figured by Prof. Leidy (Smithsonian Contributions xii.) 

 Cretaceous Reptiles, Tab. 17,*%. 8 — 11, probably belong to the present species. 

 They are included under the head of animals allied to Hadrosaurus. 



In conclusion, the thanks of scientific men are due to Superintendent Voor- 

 hees for the interest and care evinced in the preservation of these valuable 

 specimens. Were all persons engaged in digging marl equally interested 

 in the preservation of bones which come under their notice, we might have 

 been far nearer an elucidation of this, one of the most extraordinary fauna 

 which have been placed upon our planet. 



August 28<^. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



Gen. S. Wylie Crawford, M. D., U. S. A. was elected a Member. 

 The following paper was presented by permission, reported on favor- 

 ably by the Committee appointed, and ordered to be published ; 



Notes o^ the VESPEIITILIONID.E of Tropical America. 



BY H. ALLEN, M. D. 



L 



The study of the Vespertilionidae of Tropical America has never been un- 

 dertaken by any one having large collections at his command. . With others, 

 I have hitherto refrained from entering a field where such facilities, and an 

 acquaintance with type specimens, appeared to be necessary aids to produce 



1866.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



results of value. In those particulars I am now no better prepared than at 

 ftuy other time ; since but comparatively few specimens have reached me from 

 its localities, and all its types are to bo seen only in European museums. But 

 having been compelled while studying the fauna of California to institute 

 comparisons between some of its members and those of the Mexican provin- 

 ces, to determine questions of distribution, I some time ago drew up a few 

 descriptions of forms, which I now think are new. These, together with 

 notes upon two bats from Aspinwall and Maracaibo, I propose to submit un- 

 der provisional names. Should any or all of them prove to be old species, 

 their descriptions can, without confusion, be appended to the original meagre 

 diagnoses, and may thus add to what little we know of these obscure animals. 



a. Interfemoral membrane relatively small ; each joint of tail a third shorter than 

 each of ; tenninal joint of tail exsertcd. Color of membranes and auricle blackish. 



V. MUNDUS, n. s. 



Fur abov'e long and silky, and obscurely tri-colored ; basal third mottled grey- 

 ish-brown, with border toward ski7i whitish-grey ; apical third blackish- fawn , with a 

 Up of decided light dirty yelloivish- brown. This tip hue is more marked toward 

 coccyx, and everywhere mingles tvith the blackish-fawn, so that the prevailing color 

 is seen to be mottled brown fawn, flecked with the lighter shade just men- 

 tioned. Beneath /j^r more bi-colored, base being blackish, with a faint white 

 line at root ; tip being pale grey, verging to a whiter shade at pubis, where it is 

 almost uni-colored. The fur here also extends in a sparse degree nearly to the 

 region of the elbow. Head less clothed than the other species. Base of foot 

 claws sparsely furnished with glistening brown hair. Auricle upright, nar- 

 row ; tragus subulate. External basal lobe of ear obscurely quadrate, rolled 

 inward at upper free border; tip of auricle bluntish ; external border very 

 slightly emarginate. Phalangeal callosity prominent, brownish. Wing mem- 

 brane to base of phalanges of toes ; small whitish tubercle at fibular side of ancle ; 

 membrane over calcareum also whitish. Membrane very small; interfemoral 

 membrane triangular; joints to the tail nine, the last free; nostrils oblique, pal- 

 mate ; lower border thin, upper border swollen. Teeth. — Central incisors 

 placed obliquely to the dental arch, bicuspid, internal the larger ; lateral 

 placed at right angles to dental arch ; cusps of equal length ; molars |, most 

 probably in adult |. Inferior incisors overlapping ; lateral incisors quadrilobed. 



Measurements. 

 Length of head 6^^^ Length of foot 3'^^ 



" " body 11^^^ Height of auricle 5'^^ 



" " tail V^-l'^' " " tragus 3^^' 



" " humerus X'f-V^^ 2d joint index finger V' 



" " thumb 1\"' Expanse 6^^-6^^/ 



Young 9 J No. 5547, Museum of Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Maracaibo, Ven. 



V. CONCINNUS, n. s. 



Fur above silky ; prevailing hue obscure chestnut-fawn. Indistinctly it- 

 colored, basal half being brownish-black. Upper portion of interfemoral membrane 

 sparsely covered with fur of the same color. Beneath fur more distinctly 

 bi-colored, the basal half or two-thirds being as above; apical portion, however, being 

 light greyish-brown, verging to yellow toward region of pubis and russet about the 

 neck. Head woolly, of nearly the same color as the fur of the back, somewhat 

 lighter, and in one specimen nearly unicolored. The basal third of posterior 

 surface of auricles furnished with unicolored light greyish-brown hair. 

 Upper lip very faintly whiskered. Auricle erect, bluntish at tip ; internal 

 basal lobe acute, less so, however, than V. subulatus. External border very 

 faintly scooped out; external basal obscure, turned inward at upper border; 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



• 

 tragus subulate, basal cusp turned forward ; nostrils palmate, inferior border 

 not well defined nor much swollen above ; lower lip not free. Membrane to 

 base of toes ; tubercle at base of fibula very faint, as the calcaneum is slightly- 

 developed. Membrane over both of the same color as that elsewhere ; joints 

 of tail ten, terminal one half exsert. Teeth. — Central incisor in line of arch, the 

 medial cusp the larger ; lateral more at right angles to arch ; posterior cusp 

 much smaller than anterior ; palatal ridge absent ; first and second premolars 

 subequal, the first being slightly the larger, and both thrown slightly inward 

 from dental arch ; molars, |. Inferior lateral incisors quadri-lobed. 



Measurements. 



Head 7^^^ Foot 3'" 



Body 11^/^ Auricle 6'" 



Tail V^A'^^ Tragus 5'" 



Humerus V^-^'ff Length 2d joint index finger V^^ 



Thumb lY' Expanse 9^^ 



Two individuals. Nos. 1114, 1115, Mus. of Academy. Alcohol. 

 San Salvador. 



v. ExiGuus, n. s. 



Fur above basal three-fourths blackish ; apical fourth grey. Toward the 

 coccyx the basal hue is more brownish, the tip glistening brown. Basal 

 third of upper surface of inter-femoral membrane covered with a thin patch 

 of nearly unicolored glistening hair. Beneath fur more tri-colored ; thin line 

 of whitish hairs at base ; distal two-thirds blackish-fawn, apical third grey- 

 ish. Toward the pubis hair almost white, mixed with dirty yellow, and the 

 membranes to near elbow aad basal third of interfemoral membrane possess 

 a scattering pelage of the same hue. Tip of auricle bluntish, internal basal 

 acute, external basal well marked, broadly crescentic ; tragus narrow, acuminate, 

 emarginate on the upper two-thirds ; nostrils with a well-defined lower edge, 

 palmate (as in 5547); membrane to base of toes; joints of tail nine ; scarcely 

 any ex-calcaneal lobe ; calcaneum slender. Teeth as in V. mundus. Indi- 

 vidual young, and the second premolar above is not yet fully erupted. Late- 

 ral incisors below obscurely quadrilobed. 



Measurements. 

 Length of head 1"^ Length of foot 4''^ 



" " body y^^ " " auricle 6^^^ 



" " tail V'-2^^^ " " tragus 3^^^ 



" " humerusn''-4^/'' " " 2d joint index finger 2'" 



" " thumb 3^/^ Expanse 8^^ 



'One individual, J. No. 5373, Mus. of the Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Aspinwall, N. G. Dr. Hayer. 



V. OBSCURUS, n. s. (No. 8223 type.) 



Fur above dark plumbeous at basal two-thirds ; woolly texture and obscure 

 fawn-brown at apical one-third. Below basal two-thirds blackish, apical 

 one-third yellowish-white ; more russet iinder jaws ; face very hairy ; mem- 

 branes furred ; lateral lower incisor square quadrilobed, raised considerably 

 above level of other teeth ; upper premolars in line, first little longer ; lower 

 premolars same ; interfemoral membrane triangular ; joints of tail nine, ter- 

 minal joint conspicuously exsert. Ear, external basal lobe irregularly quad- 

 rate ; other parts as other species of N. A. Vespertilio, Nostrils with lower 

 border everted, not elliptical. 



Mutilated. 



(8222.) Fur above basal two-thirds dark brownish-black, streaked with 

 bright olive-brown hairs at base ; apical one-third glistening olive-brown 

 below; basal four- fifths brownish-black, streaked with yellowish hairs at 



1866.] 




282 PROOEEDINQS OF TUE ACADEMY OP 



base; apical third brownish-grey at neck, lighter at pubis; teeth as 8223, — 

 also ear and nieinbraaes ; joints of tail ten ; in both feet and thumb large, but 

 specimens young. 



3feasureme7its. 



Length of head 1'^^ Length of foot 4'^^ 



" " body K^ Heigh th of auricle 5^^^ 



" " tail V^-y " " tragus 3^'^ 



" " humerus 1'' ''•4''''' Length of 2d joint index finger i -''''' 



" " thumb 3^/^ Expanse 8^^-2^/^ 



Two young individuals, % . Nos. 8222, 8223, Mus. of Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. Alcohol. 



Lower California. John Xantus. 



Also young individual mentioned in Mon. '(loc. cit.) as a variety of V. 

 nitidus {V. Oregonensis). It very closely resembles sp. 8222. Dry. No locality. 



j3. Interfemoral membrane relatively large ; each joint of tail a third longer than 

 each of a; terminal joint not exserted, (a small tip of cartilage may he ezserted;) 

 color of membranes and ear light brown, excepting V. exilus. 



V. AGILIS, n. s. 



Fur silky, above of a very dark plumbeous verging to black, with apical 

 fourth of a decided dark brown ; on back, running to a lighter shade on head, 

 where the fur has a more woolly texture. Fur wanting from region of loin 

 and interfemoral membrane. Beneath, the base of the fur the same as above, 

 apical fourth being of a lighter brownish grey ; basal third posterior sur- 

 face of auricles being clothed with a few sparse unicolored greyish hairs. 

 Auricle almost bluntish at tip, internal basal lobe sharply pointed ; tragus 

 acuminate, broad at basal third ; external basal lobe prominent, free, broadly 

 crescentic ; joints of tail nine, enclosed in interfemoral membrane; nostrils 

 mutilated, oblique, probably palmate. 



Measurements. 

 Length of head 1^^^ Length of foot 3^^^ 



" body V^ " auricle 7^^^ 



« tail F/-6^^^ " tragus 3^^^ 



" humerus l^''-4''^'' " 2d joint index finger U^^ 



" thumb 2^^^ Expanse 9^^ 



One individual 9 • No. ? Mus. of Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Dr. Sartorius. Mirador, Mexico. 



V. VOLANS, n. s. 



Fur : abovs dark plumbeous at basal third ; apical third obscure, light 

 brown, scarcely any extension on membranes ; basal third interfemoral mem- 

 brane same. Below, basal two-thirds plumbeous, shade lighter than above ; 

 apical third a light-brownish fawn. Moderate extension of hairs upon mem- 

 branes to near elbow, and upon basal third interfemoral membrane. Auricle 

 slightly "scooped out;" external basal lobe salient, quadrate; tragal lobe 

 very salient ; nostrils elliptical ; index finger strong, membrane uniting it with 

 middle finger, ample; joints of tail nine; tip barely exserted ; excalcaneal 

 lobe conspicuous; upper incisors as usual; lower external scarcely if at all 

 quadrilobed ; first and second upper premolars placed a little within line of 

 arch. Skull : upper border anterior nares semicircular ; facial bones abbre- 

 viated, causing the brain case to appear greatly inflatsd. 



Measurements. 

 Length of head 6^^^ Length of foot 3^^^ 



" body V^ Height of auricle 5^^^ 



" tail V^-9^^^ " tragus 3^^^ 



*«* humerus V'-o"' Length of 2d joint index finger V^^ 



« thumb 3/// Expanse 9^^ 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 283 



One individual 9. No. 5398 Mus. Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Cape St. Lucas, Lower CaJ. John Xantus. 



V. EXiLis, n. s. 



Fur : above, long, rich plumbeous two-thirds ; apical third pale russet yel- 

 low ; head and face surmounted with same ; conspicuous patch at basal half 

 interfemoral membrane. Venter same proportionate base of black ; apical 

 third paler yellow, running to white toward pubis ; small patch of same co- 

 lored fur at base of interfemoral in front ; sparse hair runs on membrane 

 up to elbow ; thick labial fringe of dark brown hair running downward to 

 below level of lower jaw. Orbital wart also covered with prominent clump 

 of hair of same color. Auricle black ; external border slightly emarginate ; 

 internal basal acute; >5xternal basal prominent, equal sided; tragal lobe sa- 

 lient ; nostrils scarcely elliptical ; inferior border everted ; lateral incisors 

 unicuspid; placed to central, as in other species; inferior incisors increasing 

 in thickness toward canines, lateral, most being obscurely quadrilobed (as in 

 other species ;) joints of tail nine, long, tip scarcely exsert. 



Measurements. 

 Length of head 6^^^ Length of foot 3^^^ 



« body V^ Height of auricle 6^^^ 



^ " tail V^-Q^^^ " tragus 3^^^^ 



" humerus VA^^^ Length of 2d joint index finger ly^^ 



« thumb 2Y^^ ExpaAse 1^^ 



One individual (^. No. 5402 Mus. Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Cape St. Lucas. John Xantus. 



V. TBNUIDORSALIS, n. S. 



Fur very imperfect. Above, blackish basal two-thirds ; dark brown apical 

 third; below blacker basal two-thirds; reddish brown apical third; (belly 

 and membranes denuded.) Auricle and tragus as V. exilis. Nostrils very 

 elliptical ; thumb and foot barely large ; joint of tail nine ; tip not exsert. 



Measurements, 

 Length of head Qy^^ Length of foot 2^^^ 



" body 11^/^ " awricle 5^^^ 



" tail l^/'S^/'' « tragus 3^^^ 



" humerus l"-3'" « 2d joint index finger V^^ 



" thumb 2^^^ Expanse 7//-10^^^ 



One individual $ . No. 5533 Mus. Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cal. John Xantus. 



V. YUMANENSIS. 



Auricle and tragus as 5402 ; external basal lobe quadrangular ; pale brown 

 nostrils. Sides of face swollen; joints of tail eight; tip not exsert. Fur: 

 Above, long, silky, basal two-thirds and black ; apical third pale russet 

 yellow, extending on to membrane from body one-third the distance to elbow. 

 A small patch of pale yellow hairs at basal half of interfemoral membrane. 

 Below, black at basal half, dirty white apical half; extending on membrane 

 nearly to elbow ; patch on interfemoral of smaller size than that above. La- 

 bial fringe thick, extending to below lower jaw. Warts also surmounted 

 with a prominent clump of hairs of a darker color. 



Measurements. 

 Length of head 7^^^ Length of foot i^^^ 



body 9/" Height of auricle 6^^^ 



1866.] 



" tail l''-4'^' " tragus 4" 



" humerus l''-3'" Length of 2d joint index finger Y^' 



" thumb 2Y" Expanse 9^^-4'" 




284 PROOEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



One individual, young 9- ^^- ^^^*^ 'M.ws. Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 



Fort Yuma. Maj. Gen. G. 11. Thomas, U. S. A.* 



This last group includes those given in my monograph as varieties of F. 

 nitidus, where I proposed that the name V. orcgoncMsis, which was attached to 

 one of the specimens, should be retained, in the event of their proving to be 

 distinct. Now that it appears probable that there is a group of closely allied 

 species of Vespertilionidje inhabiting the southwestern portions of the United 

 States and Mexico, of which V. nitidus is a member, I have concluded to place 

 the so-called V. oregonensis under one of this group, V. ohscurus, and give, pro- 

 visionally, new names to the others. " V. oregonensis^' bears no locality. As 

 regards the distinctions between the above specimens and V. nitidus, it will 

 be seen that the prevailing deep-plumbeous basal half. of the fur above, with 

 its rich chesnut, olive brown, or, in some specimens from New Mexico, a 

 Bandy-chesnut tip, and the lighter shades of the same colors to the fur be- 

 neath, sufficiently serve. The superior border of anterior nares is semicircular ; 

 the 2d premolar of upper jaw wedged in between 1st and 3d to a degree pre- 

 venting it from being visible in profile from buccal side. 



A revised description of F. yumanensis is also given, to correct some errors 

 in the original notice. The representation of the tail and interfemoral mem- 



* Compare the above descriptions with V. hypothrix, D'Orb.— Smoky brown, deeper above than 

 below, where the fur is mixed with grey. Hah. — Moros, Bolivia. 



V. IsiDORi, D'Orb.— Glazed greyish fawn at tip of fur above, brownish black at base. The brown 

 is more marked on shoulders and back of neck. The head is also browner than that of the back 

 and loins, but less than that of the shoulders; the cheeks and parts beneath neck passing to 

 brownish cinnamon. Belly is dirty grey, with base brownish black. J2a&.— Corrientes, S. A. 



V. BRASiLiENSis, Spix.— Size of V. subulatus. Black. Tail exsert. Ba&.— Brazil. 



V. MEXICANUS, De Sauss. — Gilt brown, with brown at base ; beneath grey or pale, with blackish 

 base ; eleven joints to tail. Hab. — Mexico. 



The following is drawn up from personal examination of four dried specimens collected by Mr. 

 Sumichrast at Orizaba, Mexico. 



Fur: Above, long, silky, plumbeous or deep blue slate at basal two-thirds, with obscure chest- 

 nut or dark brown at apical third; a very small patch of fur on interfemoral membrane; none on 

 wing membranes. 



Beneath, fur short, thickly set; basal three-fourths dark plumbeous; apical fourth uniform grey 

 or dirty yellowish brown. 



The skull is slightly crested at venter; proportions larger than other American species of Vea- 

 pertilio. 



V. CHIL0EN8I3, Wtiterhonae.— Reddish black. More or less greyish on belly, (Castelnau ;) rich 

 brown, (Waterhouse.) Upper incisors nearly subequal ; outer side of tragus obscurely creaated. 



Hab. — Chiloe Islands, and extending upwards in Brazil (?). 



V. KINNAMON-, Qi&TV9\n.— Reddish cinnamon, deeper above than below ; tragus curvilinear at 

 lower part of outer border. 



Hob. — Capellanova, S. A. 



V. AR8IN0E, Temm.— Fur short; above black; beneath, blackish brown; points of hair " fallow ;" 

 whitish at region of coccyx, so as to form here a whitish margin. No emargination on outer 

 border of ear. , 



£ra6.— Surinam. 



v. ALBESCENS, Geof— Upper parts black, portion tipped with greyish in part. Inferior parts 

 black, tipped with whitish towards the pubis and coccyx. Hair above entirely blackish, not grey- 

 ish or fawn tip. 



J3a6.— South America. 



V. LAOTEUS, Temm.— Blackish brown at base above ; reddish brown at base beneath ; tip whitish 

 both above and beneath. 



Hab. — North America (?). 



V. PARVULtJS, Temm.— Prevailing tint black, with isabel tint on thighs. 



Hab. — Brazil. 



V. POLTTHRix, Isid. — Deep brown, chestnut above; lighter, and marked with greyish below. 



flat.— Brazil. 



V. LAEvis, Isid.— Marked as polythrix, but has remarkable proportionate development of wing 

 membranes, 



Hab. — Brazil. 



V. MONTANUS, Philippi and Landbeck.— Ears ample, oblong; tragus straight; tail truncated; 

 above mouse color, beneath greyish white ; face above black. Stands between velatus and chiloensii 



Hab. Cordilleras at Santiago, 7000 feet above the sea. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 285 



brane in the Memoir, loc. cit., is taken from a young specimen ; and the ac- 

 count is otherwise too meagre. It is unfortunate that the original specimens 

 of this bat, recorded, in the Memoir, are unavailable for comparison. They 

 were mislaid during the fire at the Smithsonian Institution in January, 1865, 

 and have not since been found. 



II. 



RHOGEESSA, n. g. 



Skull. — Depressed, not crested ; occiput triangular, slightly swollen, supra- 

 occipital process subtrenchant. Nasal bones slightly decurved, in median 

 line forming a conspicuous linear fossa running to the nares ; superior 

 border of anterior nares rounded, not reaching line of infra-orbital foramen 

 above ; on palatal surface terminating on a line with the premolar. Orbital 

 processes but slightly swollen, lower than base of nasal bones. Sides of face 

 between these points concave, groove-like. Inner wall orbital space acutely 

 convex, incurved markedly at base. Infra-orbital ridge defining foramen be- 

 hind ; foramen on a line with first true molar ; cochleae not visible ; intermax- 

 illaries rudimentary ; lower jaw ramal angle rather broad, turned outward 

 from angle. 



Dental formula — 



m. c. i. i. c. m. 



4 1 1 1 ) 4 30 



Molars as in Nycticejus; lower premolars closely approximated; canines above 

 with a groove on palatal face deeper inferiorly, terminated by a cingulum ; 

 lower cingulum marked ; incisors above close to canines, slender, convergent, 

 unequally bifid at tip ; inner cusp the longer. Below, terminal tooth on either 

 side unicuspid ; remainder tricuspid ; external cusp inconspicuous. Ear 

 tapering, erect, disjointed, nearly as long as head ; internal basal lobe 

 rounded ; external basal almost null ; border inverted. Tragus erect, subu- 

 late, half height of ear, straight on inner, divergent on outer border ; basal lobe 

 comparatively small. Snout obliquely truncate or slightly tumid ; nostrils 

 circular, well defined, terminal, separated by a slightly scalloped space. 

 Mental plate obscurely triangular ; distal joint of thumb free ; wing mem- 

 brane to base of toes ; ex-calcaneal lobe present ; joints of tail eight, included 

 in a nearly naked triangular inter-femoral membrane.* 



R. PABVULA, n. s. (No. 7841 type.) 



Ear sub-acute at tip ; lips whiskered ; eyes very small, each furnished with 

 a wart above ; similar growth seen beneath chin. Fur above silky, not thick, 

 of a light greyish-brown at basal third, fawn-chestnut-brown at apical two- 

 thirds ; that of head same color, running on to the ears one-half their height. 

 Beneath, basal third inclined to greyish ; apical two-thirds greyish-fawn. 

 Membranes almost black, naked, excepting basal tourth of interfemoral mem- 

 brane behind, which is furnished with a small, short patch of glistening fur. 



♦Compare 

 Ntcticejus (iV. crepuscular is). 



Skull slightly depressed at vertex ; occiput obtusely triangular, entire, not swollen; nasal bones 

 flat, with a small shallow median fossa, not running to nares, which are irregularly rounded at 

 upper border, extending to level of infraorbital foramen ; on palatal surface broad, running to level 

 of premolar. Orbital processes acutely edged, inner wall orbit nearly fiat. Infra-orbital ridge and 

 foramen as in Rhogeessa, but no oblique groove on sides of face. Cochleae not visible. Lower in- 

 cisors all equally trifid ; upper incisors unicuspid. 

 Ntctinomus (iV. nasutus). 



Skull much depressed at vertex. Occiput not completely defined, rounded, and swollen at supra- 

 occipital region. Nasal bones flat, scarcely decurved, a small fossa seen at their base, and convex 

 at nares. Contour of anteric* nares above obscurely tri-foil like, extending to level of infra-orbital 

 foramen, small on palatal surface running to level canine tooth. Orbital process swollen, poste- 

 riorly produced in front. Infra-orbital foramen at posterior third of orbito-nasal space. Inner 

 wall orbital space flat. CocblesQ not visible. Upper incisors unicuspid; lower centrals bifid; 

 laterals unicaspid. 



1866.] 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Measurements — 7841. 



Length of longest fingcsr l''-ll'^ 

 " thum*) 2" 



" tibia 5'' 



" foot 2 J" 



Expanse G'* 1" 



Nos. 7841, 7842, Museum of Smithsonian 



Tres Marias, Mexico. Col. Grayson. 



R. TUMIDA, n. s. 



Fur above bi-colored ; basal two-thirds pale yellow, apical third dark fawn, 

 less distinctly bi-colored towards loins, where it becomes woolly. Beneath as 

 above, fawnish toward the sides. Specimen deficient in fur at loins and wing 

 membranes. It is probable that the membranes at base of tail and sides of body 

 were clothed with fur. Snout tumid, not truncate ; nostrils circular ; sides 

 of face enlarged by large oblong swellings ; wart above eye, none under chin ; 

 lower lip tumid, free from gum ; lips not whiskered. Skull with nasal groove 

 less expressed, inner wall orbit less convex than N. parvulus ; side of face 

 over infra-orbital foramen slightly swollen. Dentition as in preceding spe- 

 cies ; superior incisors not bifid — points probably worn off. 



Measurements. 

 Height of auricle 6" Length of longest finger 2". 3'^' 



♦« tragus ^" *' thumb 2\" 



** head 7" " tibia 5" 



«♦ body 12^' " foot 2Y' 



Length of tail \" Expanse 10- 3" 



" fore arm 1-2'^ 



One individual, (^. No. 8195, Mus. of Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Mirador, Mexico. Dr. Sartorius. 



This genus appears to connect the Noctilionidae with the present family : 

 with the former through Nyctinomus, with the latter through Nyctlcejus. The 

 circular nostrils, sub-truncate snout, the detail of inferior incisors, the angle 

 of lower jaw — to Noctilionidae ; the tapering face, marked median groove, taper- 

 ing tragus and pointed ear, number and general arrangement of teeth, extent 

 of hard palate, length of tail and attachment of wing membranes, — to Ves- 

 pertilionidse.'''" 



It reminds one of Nycticejus and Lasiurus in the slightly tumid face (this is 

 more marked in R. tumida) and the dentition ; while the shape and relative 

 length of the auricle and tragus, and the decurvation of nasal bones, recall 

 Vespertilio. 



* The value of the presence of one or more phalanges to the index finger, in the classification ef 

 this group, is not yet determined ; so the fact that this finger in Rhogeessa is made up of two pha- 

 langes has not been made a fe tture of the diagnosis. My attention has been recently directed to 

 this subject by remarks made by Prof. Peters (Monatsbericht. der Konig. Acad, der Wissenschaft, 

 Kerlin, Oct.. 1865), in his paper on the true position of Antrozous, — who, by the presence of two 

 phalanges to the index finger of Antrozous, would remove it from the position I assigned it — the 

 Vespertilionidae — tothe Megadermatidae; placing it in proximity with NyclophiJus. But so far as I 

 have observed, the distal end of the first phalanx is always abrupt ; the interval between it and the 

 contour of second finger is membranous in iNTycitwowiMs but partially ossified, forming thus a second 

 phalanx in Lasiurus, Antrozous. Vespertilio, Scotophilus, and Nycticejus. lam not ac(j[uainted with 

 JVyctophilus. but in Megaderma lyra the second joint is relatively no larger than in Lasiurus or 

 Scotophilus. while it is more marked than it is in Antrozous. From reading Mr. Tome's description 

 ofNyctophilus (Proc. Zool. Soc, 1858, 25), I would.with Prof. Peters, approximate it to Antrozous, but 

 would agree with Mr. Tomes in considering Nyctophilus and its conijpeners as members of Vesper- 

 tilionidae. A second phalanx exists in my new genus, while no such phalanx is seen iu Nyctino- 

 mus. So it would appear, in absence of the observation that the uni-phalangeal index finger is not 

 common to Noctilionidae, that Rhogeessa, is nearer Nycticejus than Nyctinomus. 



TAug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Z87 



III. 



In determining the species of Scotophilus of North America, I had been 

 influenced by the authority of Major John Le Coute (Mon. on N. A. Bats) to 

 consider aS". carolinensis as distinct from S. fuscus, although suggesting at the 

 time that they might prove to be identical. I now venture to consider them 

 such, and make the former a synonym to the latter. This has not been done 

 hastily. It is not to be presumed that all the specimens of S.fuscus found in 

 this country are identical in every particular. They arrange themselves in 

 groups, of just sufficient definition to mislead the observer. But it is found, 

 upon careful comparison, that so vaguely are the boundaries of these groups 

 determined, that it is impossible to assign them precise limits. Among the 

 characters selected for this purpose, successively embraced and relinquished 

 (apart from the coloration of fur elsewhere noticed), are the infra-orbital fora- 

 men, whether it be well defined in front or open ; the zygomatic arch, whether 

 straight on inferior border and forming a right angle with the tuberosity of 

 superior maxilla, or curved on inferior border, and forming an obtuse angle ; 

 the inner side of orbital space, whether flat or convex ; the glenoid cavity, 

 whether transversely elliptical or lozenge-shaped ; the tragus, whether in- 

 curved at tip or straight ; the outer border of ear, whether emarginated or 

 nearly entire ; the nostrils, whether palmate or reniform ; and the proportion- 

 ate size of the foot and thumb. But it does not follow after all that I am 

 correct in this conclusion. A more acute observer than myself may yet divide 

 S.fuscus into several species.* 



The extent of the ex-limital distribution of this species is not yet deter- 

 mined. M. Gervais thinks it probable — and the extended study he has given 

 this group renders his opinion valuable — that -S*. dutertreus is identical with 

 "carolinensis," and that both S. innoxius and S. furinalis may be found in 

 North America. I have seen several specimens of S.fuscus irom Mexico which 

 present no diflferences from those met with in the United States. 



Another specimen, however, from Mirador, Mexico, has peculiar coloration, 

 and may receive the following description : 



S. MIRADORENSIS, n. S. 



Head and auricle much as in S. fuscus. Inner border auricle inclined, ob- 

 liquely rounded; inner edge free; anterior border nearly covering eye; tip 

 rounded, turned very slightly outward ; outer border scarcely if at all scooped 

 out; basal third moderately revolute. External basal lobe oblong and crescentic, 

 not markedly turned imvards ; as long as interval between it and angle of mouth. 

 Tragus erect, nearly half as high as ear, straight on inner border, tip not in- 

 curved ; outer border divergent, slightly convex ; basal lobe obtusely rectan- 

 gular, turned somewhat forward. Nostrils sub-reniform ; posterior angle well 

 defined; space between nostrils as usual, naked, concave. Mental space illy 

 defined. The supra-orbital and gular warts as usual. Membranes light brown, 

 attached to base of toes ; phalangeal callosity of thumb marked ; tubercle 

 present on tibial side of foot ; a larger one on fibular side for membranous cal- 

 caneum. Joints of tail nine ; terminal and half penultimate free. Inter femoral 



* The following is a list of the smaller species of Scotopliilas of Europe in the collection of the 

 Academy : 



Italy, Bon. Coll. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



It is not improbable thatspeciman No. 516 is the type of S. Uucippe. This specimen appears to be 

 almost identical with 509, S. pipistrellus. The prevailin;? hue of all the above South Eur poan species, 

 pxcludin^ alcylhce, is a rich chestnut-brown fur above, with the apical one-fifth of a gilt yellowish- 

 brown. Beneath fawn-brown at basal two-thirds; whitish at apical third. 



1866.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



membrane triangular ; ex-oalcaneal lobe commencing 2'''from ancle, abruptly 

 oresceutio. Fur nearhj unicoloi-, everviohere long and silky ; above of a lustrous 

 yellowish faum-hroion, someichat lighter at base. Below same prevailing hue, a 

 shade or so paler. Head and base of ears covered as usual. Scarcely any exten- 

 sion upon the membranes, an extremely small patch alone being seen at the base of 

 the dorsum of inter-femoral membrane. 



Measurements. 



Length of head IV" Length of foot 5'" 



body l''-6'" Height of auricle T'' 

 " tail 2"- 3'" *' tragus 4^^^ 



'* humerus 2^^ Length of 2d joint index finger 2'" 



" thumb 4"' Expanse IS^^-G^^^ 



One individual, 9 > Mus. of Smithsonian Institution. Alcohol. 

 Mirador, Mexico. Dr. Sartorius. 



IV. 



A small collection of bats made by Dr. E. Coues, U.S.A., in 1864 and 1865, 

 was found to be comprised as follows : 



7802. V. subulatus, Fort Whipple. Smithsonian Institution. Dry. 



7803. *' " ♦' " '* " 



7804. " " " ** ** " 

 The only peculiarity in these specimens is a more extensive distribution of 



the fur over the dorsal surface of the interfemoral membrane than is seen in 

 the more eastern specimens. 



The fourth specimen was an Imperfect skin. The proportions of the face 

 distorted, the wings broken, and the vertebra of the tail removed. Enough 

 remained, however, to detect marked differences between it and the others, 

 warranting, it is thought, a distinctive name. 



V. MACROPUS, n. s. prov. 



Above, fur long, silky, basal three-fourths black, apical fourth uniform light 

 russet brown ; a small clump at base of inter-femoral membrane. Beneath, 

 same proportions as above, being at base black, at tip greyish-white, pure 

 white at pubis ; fur extends laterally on membrane midway to elbow. Wing 

 membrane attached midway between base of outer toe and ancle joint. In other re- 

 spects it closely resembles V. subulatus. 



Measurements. 

 Height of ear Q"' Length of foot ^"' 



♦' tragus ^'" " 2d joint index finger V^^ 



Length of humerus l'/*4'" Expanse 8"*3"' 

 thumb 3'" 

 Mature. Dr. Coues' Private Collection. 

 Near Fort Majaor, Colorado River, New Mexico. Dr. E. Coues, U.S.A. 



Other bats so far met with in New Mexico are Lasiurus cinereus, V. evotis, 

 V. lucifugus, V. nitidus, Corynorhinus macrotis, Antrozous pallidus. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 289 



September Ath. 

 Prof. Carson in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



September 11th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked : 



I present to the Academy specimens of Pinus pungens, Michaux, gathered bj 

 me on the east side of the Schuylkill River, in the Blue Mountain Ridge, near 

 Hamburg, in Berks County, about 75 miles from Philadelphia by the Reading 

 Railroad. 



The greater part of the Pine here is of Pinus inops, with a few of F. riff ida. 

 The F. pimgem is scattered here and there amongst them. Further up towards 

 Port Clinton I saw it in comparatively large quantity, and on the opposite or 

 west side of the River, so far as I could judge by the appearance of the wood, 

 it seemed very abundant. 



The discovery east of the Susquehanna is interesting from its formerly sup- 

 posed limited location on Table Mountain, North Carolina, by Michaux. Mr. 

 Loudon subsequently noticed its discovery in the Blue Ridge, in Virginia, and 

 more recently Prof. Porter, as recorded in the Proceedings of this Institution, 

 discovered it sparingly in the Alleghanies, near Huntingdon. 



A very old collecter of plants, whom I accidentally met some few years ago at 

 Allentown, assured me that he had seen specimens many years past in the 

 Blue Mountains, near there, but I supposed at that time he was probably mis- 

 taken. Its discovery now in the same ridge, leads to the probability that it is 

 by no means a local species, but may most likely be found scattered along the 

 mountain slopes from North Carolina to the Delaware. 



In favorable situations it would probably become a larger tree than Finns 

 inops. I measured one standing by the road side that was 5 feet in circumfe- 

 rence, about fo.ur feet from the ground. The tree was apparently 50 feet high. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited specimens of a large Coccus on the Black Oak, 

 Quercus tinctoria. 



Mr. Cassin remarked that the Crotophaga ani, from Edenton, N.. 

 C., presented this evening by Dr W. A. B. Norcom, though a com- 

 mon West Indian bird, was the third specimen, of which he had any 

 knowledge, that had been procured in the United States. 



September ISth. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The death was announced of Dr. A. A. Gould, of Boston, a cor- 

 respondent of the Academy. 



September 2bth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 

 1866.] 19 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dr. E. B. Vandyke, and Mr. Frank IT. Wyeth were elected members, 

 and Mr. Gabriel Mauigault, of Charleston, S. C, was elected a corres- 

 pondent. 



October 2d. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty- eight members present. 

 The fallowing were offered for publication : 



*' On the Period and llitio of the Annual Increase in the Circum- 

 ference of Trees." By Thomas Meehan. 



*' Third Contribution to the History of the Balaenidae and Delphin- 

 idae." By E. D. Cope. 



October dth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty two members present. 



October IQtJi. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The following was offered for publication : ''Synopsis of theBatrachia 

 and Reptilia of Arizona." By Ed. D. Cope. 



Dr. Slack exhibited some living specimens of Menopoma, from the up- 

 per Alleghany River, and remarked that in the summer they appear of 

 .a light slate color; in the winter, dark brown. 



October 23^7. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited a tusk, fragments of others, and molar teeth of Mastodoa 

 >ohioticus from Big-bone-lick, Kentucky, belonging to the Museum, The spe- 

 cimens exhibited a remarkable degree of attrition, in various positions, which 

 he supposed to be due to their having been ground in and by moving masses 

 of ice. 



Mr. Cope made a communication in regard to the Mesozoic Sandstone of 

 Pennsylvania, expressing the probability of its horizon being that of the Trias 

 of Europe, on account of some contained vertebrate remains which he had 

 previously described, and also from some bones of a Pterodactyle now in hia 

 possession, for which he proposed the name of F. longispinis. 



Mr. Cassin made some remarks in regard to the existence of deposits in the 

 vicinity of Atlantic City, N. J., aoalogous to the Kitchen Middens of Northern 

 Europe and similar to those noticed by Dr. Leidy, near Cape Henlopen, Del. 



Mr. Ennis reported the existence of a similar shell bed near Cape May Court 

 House, N. J. 



Dr. Leidy observed that during the past summer he had made another visit 

 to the Kitchen Middens of Cape Henlopen, in company with Mr. Cassin, Mr. 

 .Robert Frazer, and Mr. Canby of Wilmington. They had noticed the shell 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



accumulations extending from just below the town of Lewes on Delaware Bay, 

 for about the distance of a mile or more to the base of a huge sand dune be- 

 tween the bay shore and the light-bouse of Cnpe Henlopen. They had provided 

 themselves with ample means to examine the extent of the shell heaps, and 

 had been surprised to find that they were all quite superficial, from a few 

 inches to less than a foot in depth. In a number of places they appeared to 

 form hillocks, but they were only accumulntions around the former sites of 

 trees, as indicated by the traces of stumps and roots. 



They visited similar accumulations on the shore south of the Cape, and were 

 told that they were found in many positions down thet^oast. 



All of those which were examined contained fragments of pottery, chips of 

 jasper, and stone arrow-heads. A few copper rings were also found, and in 

 one heap Mr. Canby found several English coins. 



Dr. fjeidy thought the shell-heaps were of no great age, and were probibl/ 

 coteraporary with the discovery of the country by Europeans. 



October SOth, 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty six members present. 



Drs. William Mayburry, and W. C. Dixon were elected members. 



Dr. Hayden, having just returned from a tour of exploration to the '' Mau- 

 vaises Terres," or "Bad Lands" of White River, made some remarks in 

 regard to a side trip to the celebrated Pipestone quarry of North-eastern Da- 

 kota. He spoke of the locality as very inconspicuous, and that it would have 

 hardly attracted attention had the existence of this Pipestone bed not been 

 known to exist there. Not a tree is to be seen in the region round about, only 

 a few small bushes growing among the rocks. There is an escarpment, or 

 nearly vertical wall, extending across the valley of Pipestone creek nearly a 

 quarter of a mile either end of this wall, gradually passing from view beneath 

 the prairie. The entire thickness of the rocks is about 50 feet. The Pipe- 

 stone layer is about 11 inches in thickness; about 2^ inches is homogenous 

 and compact enough to be used by the Indians for the manufacture of Pipes. 

 The remainder is of various colors and texture, from a deep red to a cream, ar^d 

 oftentimes mottled. The rock is soft, slaty, fragile, and underneath the Pipe- 

 stone is a bed of close-grained grey quartzite ; above there is about 6 feet of 

 the same rock, which must be removed with great labor before the precious 

 material can be secured. Still higher are 40 or 50 feet of reddish and varie- 

 gated quartzites, which, like the pipestone itself, are colored with peroxide of 

 iron. 



It is difficult to come to any positive conclusion as to the age of these rocks, 

 from the fact that no well defined organic remains could be found. It is the 

 opinion of the eminent geologist. Prof. Hall, that they belong to the Huronian 

 series, and, from his large experience among those rocks, and the fact also that 

 he describes similar quartzites at a point within 60 or 70 miles of the quarry, 

 entitles his opinion to great weight. Rocks of the same age occur at Sioux 

 Falls, and upon the smooth surfaces may be seen, in great numbers, the out- 

 lines of what appear to be bivalve shells, but so close grained is the quartzose 

 matrix that no well-defined shell could be broken from it. If these rocks are 

 really charged with fossils, we are led to look higher in the geological scale for 

 the true age of the Pipestone bed. 



Dr. H. remarked, in regard to the time of the opening of this quarry by the 

 Indians, he does not think they had any knowledge of the rock far back in the 

 past. No trace of stone implements were discovered in the vicinity, and he 

 could not ascertain that any had ever been found. Mr. Vaux, Vice-President 

 of the Academy, has examined large collections of stone implements and orna- 



1866.] 




292 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



monts from ancient Indian monnds, Avitlinut ever seeing any made of the pipe- 

 stone. Acting on tliis suggestion, Dr. H. examined sneli works as wer-c witiiin 

 his reach, and he could not ascertain that tiie numerous and careful explora- 

 tions of the mounds in the Mississippi Valley have as yet revealed any ornaments 

 made from this rock. The Indians must therefore have discovered the quarry 

 since the stone age. 



Dr. H. exhibited a number of ornaments manufactured from tlic Pipestone 

 by the North-west Fur Company. They consist of pipes of various patterns 

 and sizes, cups, candlesticks, etc. They are turned in a lathe. Within a year 

 or two this company have made nearly two thousand pipes, which they send 

 up to the Upper Missouri Indians, near the foot of the Uocky Mountains, and 

 trade them for a robe a-piece. Hereafter some doubt will be thrown upon the 

 genuineness of these Indian pipes. 



On favorable report of the Committee the following were ordered to 

 be published. 



On the Period and Batio of the Annual Increase in the Circumference of Trees. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The following experiments were instituted in order to ascertain whether the 

 production of wood in trees was more rapid during some portions of the grow- 

 ing season than others, and at what periods growth commenced and ceased in 

 the species of tree chosen. 



The Carolina poplar (Populus monilifera Ait.) was selected on account of 

 its rapid growth, enabling me to easily note the increase of circumference 

 each seven days. 



The following table shows the result. For the sake of system, the same day 

 in the week w^as chosen. In order to tabulate the figures, the same date is 

 used for the three years ; but as the same day fell on different dates, there is a 

 difference of three days in each date. For instance,- May 17 in 1863 is May 18 

 in 1862 and May 20 in 1866 — the three years during which the measurements 

 were taken. 



1866. 1862. 1863. 1866. 



iX In. Ft. In. Ft. In. 



April 12 (Male catkins in flower.) 



" 15 3-6| 



" 22. (Leaf buds burst) 3-6f 



" 29 3-61 



May "6 2-3 3-7 



*' 13 2-3 3'7J 



" 20 2-3|: 3-Y| 



« 21 MO 2-3f 3-'7| 



June 3 1-10| omitted 3-8 



". 10 M0| 2-3| 3-8J 



« 17 1-11 2-4J 3-9j 



" 24 1-11| 2-4| 3-9^ 



July 1 2- omitted omitted 



" 8 2- I- 2-5^ 3-9| 



" 15 omitted 2-5| 3-10^ 



« 22 2-1^ 2-5| 3-10| 



" 29 2-2 2-6| 3-lOf 



Aug. 5 2-21 2-6| 3-lOf 



" 12 2-2^ 2-6| 3-lOt 



" 19 2-2| 2-6| 3-ll| 



" 26 2-3 2-6| 3-llJ 



" 31 2-3 2-6| 31l| 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



From these figures it appears the tree increased in growth only during the 

 three months between middle of May and middle of August, and that the 

 ratio of growth is much greater during the month between middle of June 

 and middle of July than during the month preceding and the succeeding 

 month. 



Third Coatribution to the History of the BALJENIDJE and DELPHINID^ffi. 

 BY EDWARD D. COPE. 



DELPHINIDJE. 



Orca destructor mihi sp. nov. 



Among the species of this carnivorous genus of Cetaceans, the present ex- 

 hibits the most compact and powerful structure, and it, no doubt, is fully- 

 equal to any of them in its sanguinary habits. The breadth of the pre- 

 maxilliary bones allies it to the species crassidens and meridionalis, 

 which have bten called Pseudorca by some. 



It diffeis from the latter species in the greater breadth and obtuseness of 

 the muzzle of its cranium and mandible — all we possess of it — and in the 

 smaller number of teeth ; the preraaxillary bones are relatively narrower 

 throughout the greater part of tlieir length. 



The width of the muzzle at the lateral maxillary notch is a trifle less than 

 three- fourths the length from that point to the end of the muzzle ; the width 

 at the fifth tooth is a little greater, and quite three-fourths that distance. The 

 prenarial triangle is smooth, concave on eadi side the medium fissure, and 

 extends to opposite the penultimate tooth. Teeth 8, the posterior tooth 

 being the last of the maxillaries, instead of the mandibulars, as in meridi- 

 onalis. The teeth occupy closely the intervals of the opposing series ; those 

 of the mandible are directed well outwards anteriorly. The interraaxillaries 

 form an elevated ridjie exteriorly opposite the notch ; opposite the fifth tooth 

 above each is less than double ihe width of maxillary exposed exterior to it. 

 Behind the last tooth the margin of the maxillary is flared upwards in a 

 steep arch ; from opposite malar process to posterior tooth equals from pos- 

 terior margin of latter to same of antepenultimate tooth. The mandibles are 

 much depressed distally, and the symphysis equals one-third the length of 

 the muzzle fiom the notch ; the chin projects beyond the broad extremity of 

 the premaxillaries. Measurements: — 



in. lin. 



End of muzzle to glenoid cavity 20 7 



*' " maxillary notch 11 6 



" '' last tooth (Straight) 9 6 



Length of symphysis 4 



" ramus mandibuli to condyle 20 3 



Breadth of muzzle at notch 8 4 5 



*' " fifth tooth 8 6 



" ** anterior tooth 4 



Depth of ramus at last tooth 3 1 



** " coronoid process 6 2 



One specimen (No. 3679) is in the Museum Smithsonian Institution, Wash- 

 ington, from the Southern Pacific ocean, ofl" Paita, Peru. 



Beluga angustata m. sp. nov. Beluga catodon m. Proc. Academy, 1865, 278. 

 A study of the skeleton of the Beluga catodon (or /eucav), deposited by tha 

 Smithsoinan Institution in the Museum of Columbia College, Washington, 

 convinces me that the species which 1 formerly regarded as the same is really 

 quite different. For the present the following comparison will suffice : — 



1866.] 




294 PROOEEDINOS OP THE ACADEMT OF 



J5, anffHKtata* B. catrdnn Fabr. 



Tripodal Prenarial mnrillarji area; Triangular 



Ten Dorsal Vi'rtabrm and ribs ; Eleven 



No vertebral canal Cervical vertebrce; Ono or two witb vertebral 



canals, spine of axis ele-" 

 Spine of axis flat ; vated, teotiform. 



Coracoid deflected from Scapula Coracoid long, slender, in 



plane, short ; plane of plate. 



Shorter, superior outline Elon^;ate, superior mar- 



regularly arched. gin with a Jong coucav- 



ity. 

 In the specimen of the B. c a t o d o n, the o. o. palatina are sligbtly in con- 

 tact ; in the B. angustata the contact is extensive and quite as in B. c o n- 

 cr eta. 



The B. canadensis resembles the B catodon, except in the form of 

 the scapula, and of the prenareal maxillary area, in which respect it does not 

 differ from the B. angustata. Examination of a specimen received by the 

 Academy from Prof. Biunet, of the Lavalle University, Quebec, shows the 

 postero-inferior process of the atlas to be present. Dr. Wyman's figure, pre- 

 viously cited by me, being erroneous in this respect.' 



Phoc^na braciiycium, Cope, Proc. A. N. Sci., Phila., 1865, 279. 



The specimen supposed by me to be the Ph. communis, with which the 

 present species was compared, belongs to the Ph. v o m e r i n a* Gill, of the Cali- 

 fornian waters. Having since received from the Smithsonian Institution two 

 crania of the Ph communis, from the North Atlantic, comparison shows a 

 greater resemblance to the Ph. brachycium. The ditterences are, the 

 maxillaries in communis are decurved, as in v o m e ri n a, and more than 

 in b r a c h y c i u m ; in communis the vomer appears more poste-riorly on 

 the palate, being less than iis own length in advance of the line of the 

 posterior teeth ; in brachycium this distance is nearly doable the length 

 of the visible portion. The projecting portion of the pterygoids is equal to the 

 portion in advance of the posterior margin of the maxillaries, while in the 

 P. brachycium it is much less. Tlie muzzle in advance of the posterior 

 extremity of the vomer is barely contained 2^ times in the length to the ex- 

 tremity of the pterygoids, while it is one third that distance in the comm u- 

 nis. In other respects the crania, incluling the teeth, are nearly similar; 

 and it must be admitted that the full establishment of our species must de- 

 pend on further investigations. 



Sagmatias amblodon, sp. et. gen. nov. 



Char. Gener. Supraorbital expansions of the o. o. maxillares obliquely de- 

 scending and diminishing to a thin edge. No triangular prenarial depression ; 

 gonys short ; teeth very short, obtuse, numerous. 



It will be a matter of importance in the completion of the characters of 

 this genus, to ascertain the presence of a dorsal fin. tiupposing it to p )ssess 

 one, it remains intermediate between Delpliinus sect. Lagenorhi/nchus, Gray, 

 and Phocaena, diff'ering only from the latter in the cylindric form of the 

 teeth. Like the Phocsense, the only species has the posterior extremities of 

 the intermaxiliaries much elevated and smaller. Supposing it to lack the 

 dorsal fin, it will diff'er from Neomeris in the form of the teeth, from beluga 

 in the number of the teeth, and from Delphinapterus in the horizontal or- 

 bital plates and prenareal triangle of the latter. 



Char, spcif. Triangle replaced by a rugose area, which measures two- 

 fifths the length of the muzzle from the notch. Muzzle entirely flat, premax- 

 illaries in contact from nares to witliin two inches of end. On anterior half 

 maxillaries not decurved to alveolar margin, bat oblique ; exposed portion at 



* Proc. Acad., Phila., 186.5, 178. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



basal one-fourth, one third breadth of combined premaxillaries, not recurved 

 on the margin. Antero-exteiior ridge of nasals prominent, enclosing two pita 

 behind margin of vomer ; median portion of frontals separating nasals well from 

 supraocoipital, and the same from eacli other by atj anterior process ; with an 

 anterior process of supraoocipital forming a prominent knob. Supraoccipital 

 crest remarkabl}' strong and directed nearly horizontally forwards. Pterygoids 

 in contact on the median line, posterior margins widely divergent ; inferior 

 angles separated, much rounded, median depression considerable. Common 

 suture of palatines considerable, nearly equal gonjs. Maxillaries closely in 

 contact on the palate, not exhibiting vomer or premaxillaries, except a little 

 of the latter on the distal inch. Coronoid process of mandible everted ; ramus 

 on distal half thickened internally, so that the dental series converge far less 

 on the posterior half its length than on the anterior. Occiput transverse, little 

 convexity between the posterior ridges of the temporal fossae. Latter large, 

 subrliomboid in outline. No portion of maxillaries visible between prenareal 

 swellings ; these elevations descend gradually anteriorly and are steep later- 

 ally, not grooved. Longest (right) prolongation of premaxillary not attaining 

 nasal bone. 



The remaining and more prominent features of this species are apparent from 

 the following measurements : — 



Length from end muzzle to convexity of occipital condyle 15'25 



" " " notch 7'6 



Depth of cranial chamber 4*9 



Length of ramus mandibuli.. 11.75 



" gonys 1-25 



Width at temporal fossae 7 



" orbits 6-5 



" notch 3-79 



** middle of muzzle 2*5 



" of prenareal elevations 2-79 



The shelving form of the supraorbital plates of this species suggests a re- 

 lationship to the Delphinus (Tursio) e u t r o p i a, Gray, but it is evident that 

 the S. amblodon differs entirely from any species of Delphinus hitherto 

 known. 



The habitat of this species is uncertain. It was taken off the ship Vincennes, 

 of the U. S. Exploring Expedition. On inquiry of Dr. Charles Pickering, 

 naturalist on board of that vessel, he has no record or recollection of the cap- 

 ture of such a species ; it was therefore probably procured while he was absent 

 from the ship from Cape Horn to Lima, or afterwards during his stay on land 

 in Australia and New Zealand. 



Delphinus longidens. 



Of the type of D. (Tursio) obsourus Gray, but with considerably longer 

 muzzle and much longer prenareal triangle, the rugose surface of which ex- 

 tends to the end of the basal third of the length of the muzzle. Muzzle from 

 notch just twice the length of cranial chamber, shorter than mandible, tlat above 

 on the basal two-thirds, the premaxillaries continuous with maxillaries, not 

 bounding the triangle in front by a ridge. Sides of muzzle quite steep near 

 tip. Prenareal portion of triangle full plane. Premaxillaries not visible on 

 palatine surface till near tip; pterygoids not in contact, prominent ridge. Teeth 

 slender, acute, spreading, four and an interspace in an inch, ^o, anteriorly 

 not separated by alveolar partitions ; occiput flat, rounded in profile ; nasal 

 bones subtransverse, very near the moderate supraoccipital crest. 



^ . in. 



Length of cranial chamber 4 



" cranium, total , , 15-25 



" mu/zle to notch 8*25 



" mandible 12-25 



186G] 




29G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Length of symphysis mandibuli 1-25 



*• temporal fossa 2-50 



Breadth between orbits 6-30 



** at notch , 3 55 



*' at middle of muzzle 3«38 



*♦ of intermaxillary at middle 1-375 



From the above it will be seen tbat the nearest ally of this species is the 

 Delphinus (Lagenorhynchus) clanculus Gray, in which the muzzle is 

 consittefnl.ly shorter and the cranium relatively longer and wider; that is, 

 length of cranium proper equal in the latter to the length of the muzz'e, and 

 breadth at orbits a little greater than either. Its form renders a distinction 

 between Lagc.norhi/nchtis and Delphinus improbable, on present bases. 

 Habitat unknown. Museum Smithsonian, No. 3886. 



Delpeinus plagiodon, sp. nov, 



A robust species of the subgroup Tursio, (Gray), with a strongly depressed 

 triangle extending but little in advance of the posterior tootli. It is in many 

 points allied to the D. d o r i s, but differs in the muzzle being compressed 

 rather than depressed, especially at the tip, the te6th fitting very closely and 

 compressed transversely to the jaw, scarce four in an inch ; and from the 

 specimen of the Museum Salem, in having the mandible heavy and much 

 prolonged at the symphysis. The form is an approximation to Steno, but the 

 symphysis is short, nevertheless not more so than in St. t u c u x i Gray. 

 Until other characters are educed it will not be possible to distinguish Steno, 

 Tursio, Delphinus and Lagenorhynchus as more than one genus. Ii^ this 

 view I support the already expressed opinion of Lilljeborg. 



Maxillaries much decurved, their elevation above the alveoli scarcely greater 

 than that of the premaxillaries above themselves. The latter form a very 

 strong rounded fidge, straight as far as visible in profile. Width at notch 

 two and two- third times in length. Prenareal part of triangle moderately con- 

 cave medially, with the terminal portion rugose. Supraorbital plates of 

 maxillary externally thickened ; in front of notch distinctly recurved. Ptery- 

 goids iu contact, exteriorly plane, inferior angle sharp, included depression 

 angulate. Vomer well displayed at middle of palatal face, not in contact with 

 maxillaries ; premaxillaries narrowly visible on the anterior half. Teeth ^?i, 

 stout, occiput flat transversely, prolonged, rounded in profile, and not 

 acuminate, incurved. Supraoccipital crest rather weak. Measurements : — 



in. 



Length to outline of occipital condyles , 17 



♦' maxillary notch 9'80 



" of temporal fossa 3-1 



" upper tooth line , 8*25 



♦* ramus mandibuli 14-4 



" symphysis mandibuli 2 



Depth of cranial chamber 4-75 



Width at temporal crests behind 5-6 



•« above orbits , 7*25 



" at notch...' 3-55 



" at middle of muzzle 2-375 



Habitat is unknown. No. 3884 Mus. Smithsonian. 



This species resembles closely the figure of the D. doris given by Dr. 

 Gray in Zool. of Erebus and Terror, but does not at all agree with his descrip- 

 tion published in the Catalogue Ct;taceans Brit. Mus., 18t>5, which applies 

 closely to the speci^uen describiMl by me, Proc. Academy, 1865. As the crania 

 which have fallen under my observation are those of undoubtedly distinct 

 species, I have been at a loss which to regard as the true D. doris. I think 

 it would probably be more acceptable to the describer of the latter to regard 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



the description written by himself as the more infallible test, than the figure 

 drawn by another, and therefore more liaV)Ie to error. A figure of that which 

 coincides exactly with Dr. Gray's description will shortly be published. 



It may be mentioned that the teeth of Delphinus e r e b e n n u s, stated by 

 me to be truncate like those of th« D. tursio, on the authority of Dr. S. J. 

 Howell, are found on examinatien to have an exceedingly oblique truncation 

 behind, extending from the alveolar line to the apex. 



PoNTOPORiA CALVEEWEXsis (Delphiiius calvcrtensis) Harlan, Proc. National In- 

 stitution 1842, 195. 

 This extinct species differs specifically from the recent P. blainvillei of 



the Southern Atlantic Ocean. 



SiBBALDius LATiCEPS Gray. 



Catalogue Cetaceans, Mus. Britt. 170. Balcena rostrata Rudolphi, Berlin 

 Abhandl. 1820. 



An examination of the skeleton of the cetacean described by Prof. Talia- 

 ferro, Proc. Acad. 186tj, page 8, and now deposited in the museum of the 

 Academy by Dr. P. A. Taliaferro, has shown it to be the above named 

 species, which is therefore to be added to the United States Fauna. 



Length from end of muzzle over convexity of back, forty-six feet nine 

 inches ; girth about nineteen feet ; length from end of muzzle to axilla, (ex- 

 ternal measurement,) fifteen feet ; breadth of head across inferior margin of 

 jaws, eight feet. Length of the pectoral extremity /o?ir/ee^, greatest breadth 

 fifteen inches ; they were situated close behind the angle of the mouth. Tliere 

 were 360 laminse of black baleen, extending on either side of the mouth about 

 six feet along the jaw, the longest about eighteen to twenty inches. The head 

 was acute. The folds of the throat many and capacious. The dorsal fin was 

 represented by a conical mass covered by horny integument, without any 

 membranous appendage, situated well posteriorly. The body near the tail 

 very slender. The flukes suddenly expand to a breadth of ten feet. The ver- 

 tebral line fiom the dorsal fin to the flukes, with six or eight knobs or humps. 

 Color, jet black above, including flippers, below white, sides beautifully 

 marbled by a combination of the two colors. 



ft. in. 



Total length of cranium 10 3 



Length supradccipital to inferior margin of foramen magnum 2 7 



" o. maxillare from oibital process frontal .• 6 3 



Width do. at3ft. IHn 7*5 



Breadth cranium from posterior angle to angle of orbital processes 



of frontal 4 8 



From latter to plane posterior angle supraoccipital 2 2 



Width supraoccipitals behind 3 3 



" nasal meatus anterior to o. o. nasalia 9-25 



The supraoccipital overarches on each side, a lateral longitudinal concavity, 

 which passes under or downwards, behind the horizontal frontal plates. Su- 

 perior inner edge of frontals raised ten inches above these orbital plates. Pre- 

 maxillaries only three inches in diameter, leaving a wide median gap on top 

 of the muzzle. 



The OS hyoides has very little longitudinal extent, the body being 9 inches 

 long, while the base of each ceratohyal is 5*5 inches across; body niost pro- 

 longed posteriorly, where it is narrowed, truncate, and with a deep longitudi- 

 nal fissure. 



The scapula is, a^ described for the species, like that of a Beluga, of con- 

 siderable longitudinal extent, and furnished with long coracoid and acromion. 



Of the anterior extremity, the humerus is less than half the length of the 

 radius, thirteen inches long, with the articular surfaces for ulna and radius 

 nearly equal. 



186t).] 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The ntlas possesses an acuminate merlian diapophysis, curved back, and 

 with nrtei ial perforation on one side. Spinal canal narrowed bflovv, vertical 

 depth r)-5 inches; breadth above 3-5, below at middle, 2. A strong inferior 

 posterior process as in Beluga. Arti( ular surfaces continuous. 



The second, third and fourth cervicals with large completely united supe- 

 rior and inferior lateral processes. Neural canal broad, depressed ; centrum 

 transverse quadrate. Seventh cervical without inferior lateral process ; the 

 superior compressed slightly descending, equal depth ^centrum, 6 inches. 

 Articular surfaces of ribs on third to sixth dorsals, cresoentic. Dorsal verte- 

 brsB preserved, eleven : probably one or more have been temporarily removed. 

 Neural spines elevated, espei ially on lumbar rejiion, where the zygapophyses 

 Stand at only one-fifth the height of the arch and spine. 



First rib, measurements : 



ft. in. 



Length, with curve of middle 2 11-5 



Width at small tuberosity 4*75 



" end 75 



" middle 5-5 



One of the longer ribs, with a slight ala on one edge, six feet lonsr. 



There are some peculiarities of the present individual which render its 

 identification with the Sibbaldius laticeps not yet entirely e>tablished. 

 Rudolphi observes that the acromion is very rudimental in his type, while in 

 ours it is like the coracoid, well developed. Lilljeborg and Gray, 1. c, state 

 the dorsal fin to be compressed and fuleate, while in the Mobjack specimen it 

 is rudimental and conic. The hyoid bone is precisely as figuied by Rudolphi. 

 The dorsal fin resembles that of the S. horealis Fisch. {giyas Van Beu.), but 

 the species differs markedly in the following points : 



Dubar says the posterior dorsal median line is keeled ; according to Dr. Talia- 

 ferro this one has several humps. Dubar's figure of the first rib differs very 

 much from ours : former, end emarginate, its breadth 2| the length ; the latter, 

 end entire, breadth 4^ the length. Our specimen is entirely adult at a length 

 of 43 feet (axial) ; Dubar's specimen had attained 102 feet. This difference 

 is important, as growth ceases with the coalescence of the epiphyses, as in 

 other mammals. Lastly, Dubar's type possessed an inferior lateral process 

 on the seventh cervical, wanting in ours. 



The following extract from the Richmond Enquirer of Eighth month 23d, 

 1858, furnished me by Prof. Taliaferro, gives a lively account of the capture 

 of this specimen : 



"On Wednesday, the 4th inst,, an unusual excitement was manifested 

 among the fishermen at the mouth of North and Ware Rivers, on Mobjack 

 Bay, and in a few moments scores of canoes might have been seen pulling up 

 stakes and anchors, and making for the shore in every direction. It was soon 

 reported that an immense fish, supposed to be a whale, of incredible dimen- 

 sions, was cutting all sorts of capers in the Bay : blowing like ever so many 

 bulls, spouting water, and amusing himself by making a great rumpus, to the 

 great tei ror and peril of some of the citizens of the commonwealth, who ' go 

 down to the sea ' in small canoes. But after the lapse of a few hours nothing 

 more was seen or heard of the monster, and the report of his visit scarcely 

 excited attention, even if it commanded credence. 



"On the Monday morning following, however, an extraordinary noise on 

 the river (NorthJ near Belle Ville, the residence of Warner T. Taliaferro, 

 Esq., attracted the attention of the family about daybreak, and on hastening 

 to the shore, they beheld the creature aground on a bar near the landing. 



"The gentlemen, determined to attempt his capture, instantly leaped into 

 a boat, and sent off for gigs, (small harpoons use I by our fishermen for strik- 

 ing the bonito,) pulled around him to reconnoitre whilst the weapons were 

 being procured. 



[0.jt. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



"Whilst they were laying off, however, quietly reconnoitering the salient 

 and weak points of attack, measuring with their eyes the length and breadth 

 of their immense adversary, and impatiently awaiting the collection and 

 arrival of the materials of war, the tide, which unfortunately was flooding, 

 lifted him, just before the preparations for the attack could be completed, 

 from his jDerilous bed in the sand, and with a prodigious effort he threw him- 

 self off the bar, bounded into the channel, and in an instant was out of sight. 



** Noihing more was seen of him, and it was feared he had made his way 

 out of the capes, and to the bergs and ice floes of more congenial latitudes, 

 after his umomfortable experiences of shallow v.ater. But on Wednesday 

 evening, the 11th inst., he was again descried making his way, like a small 

 propeller, straight up North River, rising every ten or fifteen minutes, throw- 

 ing graceful jVfs d^eaa into the air more than thirty feet high, and sporting on 

 the surface of the water. When olf Burgh Westra, the residence of Dr. P. A. 

 Taliaferro, that gentleman, with his brother, Edwin Taliaferro, Esq., accompa- 

 nied by Mrs. , who, carried away by the excitement, insisted (under 



threat of having her own boat manned) upon joining the expedition, and wit- 

 nessing the sport, as well as sharing the peril. Having hastily collected all 

 the fire-arms at hand, consisting of shot guns and five-shooters, and having 

 fastened a sword to a staff for a lance, they pushed off with a trusty crew of 

 negro oarsmen, in a launch of twenty feet in length, and rowed boldly for the 

 huge monster. He arose usually to breathe and spout water abont every ten 

 or fifteen minutes, and then descended, reappearing at the expiration of that 

 time between a quarter and half a mile distant from the place of descent. 



** Closely calculating the distance at which he would rise, and pulling in 

 the direction in which he disappeared, they succeeded in measuring so accu- 

 rately the time and space, that the third time he came to the surface after 

 they started, they found themselves within a few feet of him, as he lay with 

 his whole length exposed upon the water. 



" To pour a heavy charge of buckshot into his flank was with Dr. T. the 

 work of au instant, when off the creature darted like lightning, pursued with 

 a hearty cheer by the boat's crew. 



'• Again and again he rose, and again and again was the gallant boat with 

 her undaunted crew close beside him, pulling for their lives to head him, and 

 cut off his retreat from the river to the bay. For some moments, at one time, 

 he was seen swimming under the water, with his immense mouth, wide 

 enough to have taken in and crushed the frail boat, extended, and making 

 directly for her ; but a few quick and lusty back strokes of the oars put her 

 beyond peril, — and as he arose within ten feet of her quarter, a second dis- 

 charge of ball and buck drove him frantic upon a bar, and the blood-tinged 

 column of water which he spouted into the air told the story of a mortal 

 wound. 



" Pulling the boat within a few feet of his body, far enough off to escape a 

 blow from his tail. Dr. T. courageously leaped overboard into five' feet water, 

 and boldly attacked him with an impromptu lance, made of an old To'edo 

 blade which had done service in several wars. Though mortally wounded, 

 however, and attacked sword in hand, the whale would not yield himself van- 

 quished and a prisoner without another struggle, and, to the dismay of the 

 assailants and the crowds which had by this time collected on the beach, by 

 a convulsive and violent effort he floundered into deep water, and made a 

 straight run for the bay. But he was now too much exhausted to escape, and 

 the boat pulling fearlessly upon him, headed him within a few hundred yards, 

 and drove him again upon the shore, upon the estate, and near the residence 

 of Gren. Taliaferro, where cables and ropes were fastened to his tail, and he 

 was dragged to the shore by a force of over one hundred and fifty negroes, 

 who had assembled to witness the sport, and despatched, after a most ex- 

 citing contest, from first to last, of over three hours. 



"On dissection, the stomach was found to contain nothing but crabs, "» 

 1866.] 




^00 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Tho only other wliale recordwd as taken in the Chesapeake is mentioned in 

 the above article as liavinj; been captured near Nt^w I'oiut Comfort, Matthews 

 County, north of Mobjaok Bay, a few years previously. 



On the REPTILIA and BATRACHIA of the Sonoran Province of the Nearctio 



Region. 



BY EDW. D. COrE. 



The material on which the present essay is based, is a collection made by 

 Dr. Elliott Cones during a sojourn of sixteen months in, and " travels over the 

 Territory of Arizona from east to west, chiefly near the i)ar:illpl of 35°, and 

 along ihe valley of the Colorado from Fort Mojave to Fort Yuma." Notes 

 of observations made by Dr. Coues on the different species materially add 

 to their interest. 



BATRACHIA. 



Urodela. 

 Amblystoma ?nebulosum Hallowell, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. (2.) v. 252, iii. 



In the Siredon stage differing from the S. gracil is Baird in its oblique 

 branchial arches with finer pectinations, and in coloration. On the anterior 

 side or ihe third arch, twenty pectinations or rakers may be counted ; in the 

 S. pisciformis (or mexicanus) there are but twelve. Color in life 

 " shining green above, silvery greenish-white below, more yellowish about 

 legs and gills; a few obsolete scattered black spots on head and b^ick. Eyes 

 and brinchial fimbri?e black," (Cones' notes). 455 — 56 9. from Jacob's well ; 

 No. 491(J* from a deep water tank in the rocks of the San Francisco moun- 

 tains. 



Male about seven inches long ; branchiae well developed ; gular derm free 

 half-way to symphysis mandibuli. Twelve costal folds. Muzzle slightly 

 narrowed jaws equal. Lateral and dorsal peritonaeum black. The lungs 

 extend to opposite the inguinal region. Corpus adiposum extending on 

 testes to their anterior extremity. Testes undivided, broad, length equal 

 half that from axilla to anus ; efferent vessels numerous, not entering directly 

 the vas uro-spermaticus. The latter is very slender, lying along the outer 

 margin, but not in contact with, the narrow kidney; opposite the latter re- 

 curr< ntly convolute, anterior to it straight, and extending to opposite axilla 

 with decreasing diameter. It empties into the rectum near the cloaca. Cloaca 

 protected on each side by a large vertical compressed gland, which is fringed 

 on its inferior border, (which is received into the lip of the cloaca,) and also 

 on its superior margin, which lies next the caudal vertebrae. It is continu- 

 ous in front of anus ; behind the two edges are pressed together. Integument 

 of cloaca thrown into numerous appressed vertical plicae, as in other Sire- 

 dons. 



Stomach straight, extending to the left groin, filled with larvae of Diptera 

 Nematocera. Intestines long, rectum large. 



Female smaller, many of the ova black. In these animals the tarsal and 

 carpal bones are fully formed, but cartilaginous. The pterygoid and pala- 

 tine teeth in continuous series, the latter slightly separated medially, and 

 conientric with maxillary series. On this character, preserved in a stage 

 of an allied species without branchiie, I proposed the genus Camarataxis, the 

 validity of which can only be established when the development of all our 

 Amblystomas is known. It is a stage nearer the larval condition than the 

 transverse series of A. opac um, while the /X-shaped series of A. luri- 

 d u m is intermediate, 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Andra. 



Spea h a m m o n d i i Baird, Pac. R. R. Rept. Williamson's Exped, 1857, 12. 

 Cope, Journ, Acad. Nat. Sci. 1866, 81. 

 Two specimens. 



Hyla arenicolor Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. 1866, p. 84. 



H. affinis Baird, U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv. Tab., not of Spix. 



Two specimens. 132, "sides of abdomen and inside of thighs bright yellow 

 in life.'" — Coues. 



Bufo frontosus sp. nov. 



A species most allied to the B. americanus, but differing in the shorter 

 and more elevated cranium, longer and larger hind limbs, and more acumi- 

 nate parotoid glands. 



The canthus rostrales not marked, the muzzle descending very steeply from 

 the anterior angles of the orbits, shorter than the elevated perpendicular 

 muzzle. Frontal ridges higher than eyelids, rising steeply behind, termina- 

 ting in two short convergent tuberosities, divergent, with interior crenations 

 behind ; postocular ridge equally developed, sending a very small process to 

 the anterior acuminate extremity of the parotoids. Elevation of cranium at 

 parietal tubercle equal to length of same from the same point. Eye large ; 

 tympanum distinct, half eye ; parotoid narrow, long, acuminate at both ends. 

 Elbow to anterior margin of orbit ; heel to end of muzzle. Skin everywhere 

 with numerous small tubercles ; soles rough ; toes half webbed. 



Brown above, with pale vertebral line, and three pairs of deep brown me- 

 dium sized spots, with paler centres. Sides and lips with small brown spots. 

 Femur and tibia with one indistinct brown cross-bar each. Below uniform 

 yellow. 



Total length four inches, of which the head is 9 lines to postocular ridges ; 

 breadth between orbits 2-5 lines ; hind limb 5 inches; sacrum 1 inch across. 

 One specimen. 



Bufo microscaphus sp. nov. 



Head broader than long, obtuse, muzzle descending in full arc to labial 

 border from line of orbit ; superciliary ridges well marked, but concealed by 

 the thick skin, plane, parallel; postorbital not prominent; vertical gutter 

 narrow. Eyes large, prominent, double tympanum. Parotoids broad, smooth. 

 Skin little roughened. Toes two-thirds webbed ; shovel very small, fre- 

 quently not black-edged, outer tubercle small, heel to end muzzle. 



Above blackish, a black spot on each parotoid, and dark light centred bar 

 on femur and tibia ; a yellowish bar across front and palpebrse, and spot on 

 nape ; muzzle dark. 



Total length 1 "in. 5-5 1. ; to postorbital ridge 7-5 1. ; fore limb 1 in. 9 1. ; 

 hind limb 3 in. 2 1. ; femur ^ included. 



Th«e oval, well separated parotoids and general appearance of this species 

 ally it to the B. sp eci o su s Girard, but in that animal the supraorbital 

 ridges are obsolete, and the metatarsal shovel is very much stronger. The 

 B. d o r s a 1 i s Hallow. {B. woodhousei Gird.) is also allied, but is in all pro- 

 portions and details more elongate, and has a stronger shovel and head 

 ridges ; it always has the dorsal band, which never exists in the microsca- 

 phus, and never the transverse face-band of the latter. 



Numerous specimens in Dr. Coues' collection, also two previously in Mus. 

 Smithsonian (4106, 4184), from the upper Colorado region, procured by H. 

 B. MoUhausen. 



Rana h a 1 e c i n a Bosc. 



Near Fort Wingate ; Zuni City. 



1866.] 




802 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



REPTILIA. 



Sauria. 



Iguania. 



Phrynosoma douglassii Bell. Tapaya ornatissima Girard, Herp. U. S. 

 Expl. P:x. 1858, ;-J96. 

 Abundant, and exhibitinf^ much variety of coloration, some being uniform 

 brown above, some with dark cross-bars, light edged behind, some with dnrk 

 oval spots, and some with dark yellow-edged spots; others have the tempo- 

 ral spines and sides of the head bright red. The length of the tail varies 

 from one and three-fourths to two and three fifths times in the total. 

 From Fort Whipple, San Francisco Mountains, and the Colorado Chiquito 

 River. The two from the last locality are the only ones with oval brown 

 yellow -edged spots. Dr. Coues says of this species: "Very abundant at all 

 points from Santa Fe to Fort Whipple, chiefly in dry and sandy or rocky 

 situations. The males are usually smaller and more delicate in form than 

 the females. Those of the latter sex taken after the middle of July were al- 

 most invariably pregnant, and the young appeared in great numbers after the 

 first of August. When on sand or soft soil, the horned frogs watch their 

 chance, and when they think nobody is looking, they quickly and quietly 

 bury themselves quite out of sight. This is accomplished by a gradual, in- 

 sinuating, lateral and forward wriggling of their bodies: nose down, and 

 paws drawn to their sides. vVhen newly caught, some of the larger speci- 

 mens are a little inclined to be irascible and pugnacious ; and they bite, but 

 rather weakly. If a dog approaches, they stretch up on their legs, swell out 

 their bodies, open their mouths, and make a low hissing noise. This is about 

 all they do, however. They always become tame and quiet after a few min- 

 utes' handling. They eat readily, snapping at passing flies, and catching 

 them by protruding their viscid, fleshy tongues. When tickled with a straw 

 they lean the whole body towards the side touched, humping up their backs, 

 and setting their horns ; but this is the utmost they do on the defensive, tor- 

 ment them as you may." 



Phrynosoma brevirostre Girard, Herp. U. S. Expl, Exped. 1858, 377. 



One specimen from Bero Springs (No. 407). This species is very near the 

 P. d o ugl as si i, but has the muzzle and nostrils of the P. cornutum 

 type, that is, the latter on the front of the muzzle ; the tail is also very short, 

 being a little over one-third length of head and body ; above with a few 

 pairs of pale-edged brown spots. I am not prepared to depend on its perma- 

 nent distinction from the P. douglassii. 



Phrynosoma platyrhinus Girard, Stansbury's Report, Utah, Reptiles, 

 263. 



Phrynosoma m o d e s t u m Girard, 1852, Herp. U. S. Expl. Exped. 1858, 365, 

 Tab. vi. Bero Spring. 

 As a synonym of Ph. regale Girard, is to be placed Ph. Solaris Gray, 

 Catal. Sauria Brit. Mus., 229. Ph. b 1 a i n v i 1 1 e i Gray, 1. c. 228, is the com- 

 mon species of California which has been called Ph. coronatura by Gi- 

 rard. The latter species, of Blainville, has been sent by John Xantus to 

 the Smithsonian Institution from Lower California, where alone it has been 

 found. 



Crotaphytus c o 1 1 a r i s Say, Holbrook, N. Araer. Herp. ii. 1842, 72, tab. 



From Bero Springs and along the Colorado Chiquito River, where they are 

 abundant. Dr. Coues says of its habits: "Occurring on sand, logs, among 

 brush, etc. Throat very dilatable, os hyoides large and strong. Length 11 

 — 12 inches. Bites fiercely, and a little powerfully when caught. Common 

 all along the Colorado Chiquito River. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



" In confinement, this species is just the opposite of the smaller lizards and 

 of the horned frogs. They retain to the last their fierceness and irascibility, 

 and their biting inclinations. My specimens were all perfectly untameable, 

 though petted for several days ; they all ultimately died, apparently of pure 

 rage and chagrin at being trapped. They bit fiercely at the finger, and 

 whipped good-sized dogs. They also bite indiscriminately a stick or anything 

 else presented to them ; and hold on so tenaciously that I have hung them 

 up for half an hdtr by their hoJd on a stick or string. They were ever on 

 the alert, watching every motion with cunning and wrathful eyes. Every 

 now and then they would seem to lose their tempers completely, and tug 

 frantically at their ' lariettos,' leaping fiercely about in ail directions. They 

 refused all food, and their lovely colors faded very perceptibly some time 

 before death." 



Crotophytus w i s 1 i z e n i i Baird', Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1852, 69. C. 

 fasciatus Hallow., C. gambelii B. G. 

 Colorado Chiquito River. 



Holbrookia propinqua Bd., Gird., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1852, 126. 



Navajo Springs ; Fort Wingate ; San Francisco Mountains ; Colorado Chi- 

 quito River ; Zuni City. " Very abundant ; not very agile." 



Holbrookia maculata Girard, Proc. Amer. Assoc. 1850, 201. 

 Fort Whipple. 



Holbrookia texana Troschel, Wiegm. Archiv. 1850, Tab. Bd., Gird., Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. 1852. 



Uta symmetrica Baird, Proc. Acad. 1858. 



Bero Springs, near Fort Wingate. '-On rocks in a canon. Yery agile, 

 and difficult to secure. Tails very fragile. 



" All have lemon or orange-yellow throats. Of some the bellies are plain 

 silvery white; of others bright greenish olive. Some are deep greyish-black 

 abore, others much lighter, with a dark lateral streak. The former I pro- 

 cured on light yellowish sandstone; the latter on dark blackish lava rocks. 

 Saw none except on rocks." (Cones' notes.) 



Sceloporus consobrinus B. &. G., Marcys' Report, 1853, 237. 



San Francisco Mountains ; Colorado Chiquito River ; Zuni Mountains. In 

 dry pine woods. 



Sceloporus graciosusB. &. G., Proc. A. N. S. Phil., 1852, 69. Sc. gracilis 

 B. & G., 1. c. 

 Colorado Chiquito River, in sandy situations ; Navajo Springs. 



Diploglossa. 



Heloderma h or r i d u m Wiegmann, Herpet. Mexicana Tab. Baird U. S. Mex. 

 Bound. Surv. Tab. 

 Fort Whipple. Yellow orange, the black cross bars parallel and connected 

 margins of orange spots. 



' Leptoglossa. 



Cnemidophorus sexli neatus Linn. var. g u 1 a r i s Bd. Grd. Cnem. gularis 

 B. G., 1. c. 1852, 128. Cn. guttatus Hallow., 1. c. 1854, 192. 



Fort Wingate ; Colorado Chiquito River; Lithodendron Creek. 



" This is the lizard, par excellence^ of Fort Whipple and vicinity. All sum- 

 mer it has been very numerous in and about the Fort — coming into our tents 

 at all times, silently and furtively hunting for flies. Although so familiar, 

 it is exceeding timorous and darts out of sight at the least movement or noise. 

 It is, I think, by far the most agile of all its tribe. When running on level 

 ground the eye can hardly follow it; but receives merely a dim impression of 



1866.] 




804 rROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a Icnpftliy stro.ik of black and yollow. I found it Impossible to secure speci- 

 mens till 1 hit upon the expedient of shootinp: them witli a small charge of 

 UHistiird seed shot out of an old fashioned pistol ; with which 1 could procure 

 any quantity ot them. They live chieliy in liifj;!! dry open woods, among dry 

 leaves, at the feet of bushes, etc. They are emphatically ground lizards, not 

 tree or rock species." 



Plistodon o b s o 1 e t u s Bd. Gird., 1. c. 1852, 129. • 



Plistodon guttulatus Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Phila., 1852, 206. 

 Fort Whipple. 



OPHIDIA. 



Asinca. ^ 

 Contirt i s z n a n. sp. nov. 



Char. Two postoculars ; six rows of gular scales. Rostral rounded, slightly 

 produced backwards. Scuta 158 i, 52. Twenty black half rings, separated 

 by equal spaces of pinkish ground color. 



Descr. Eye small, diameter twice in length of muzzle. Preorbital nar- 

 rower above, not extending above lower margin of superciliary ; loreal twice 

 as long as high. Prefrontals and internasals much broader than long; frontal 

 slightly angulate in front, longer than broad ; parietals rather elongate, sub- 

 truncate behind. Postorbitals subquadrate, temporals 1 — 2. Postgenials 

 minute. Superior labials seven, all higher than long, eye over third and 

 fourth. Scales in fifteen rows, all broader than long. Tail four and two-fifths 

 times in total length, which is 10-25 inches. Below immaculate; tail com- 

 pletely six-Hunulate. 



Another specimen from the Museum Smithsonian, from Rockville, Kane Co., 

 Utah, from A. L Siler, indicates a variety. The body is longer than in the type, 

 an(J is crossed by twenty-five black bars, between these and on top of muzzle 

 Vermillion, below yellow. Scuta 167 i 52. Both specimens resemble the 

 Sonora semiannulata B. & G., but that species has two nasals, three 

 postoculars, the superior reaching the frontal ; frontal wider behind than 

 before, and only 149 gastrosteges. 



Rhinochilus 1 e co n te i Bd. Gird., Catalogue 120. 



A well marked variety, having fewer (twenty) black half rings on the body 

 extending to the gastrosteges and separated by a narrow interval. Abdomen 

 with subquadrate black spots opposite the former and their intervals. Other- 

 wise as types. 



Phimothyra hexalepis n. sp. nov. 



Resembles the P. graharaiae [Salvidora B. G ) but differs in having a 

 shorter tail, five and one-third times in length, instead of four times; eye 

 resting on sixth supralabial on account of the presence of three narrow pre- 

 oculars ; two or three loreals — largest higher than long; nostril on suture 

 between nasals and internasals; dorsal stripe narrow — one and two half scales 

 and lateral brown band wide, four and a half to five scales, whose superior mar- 

 gins are ochriceous at base. Rostral plate well developed, higher than broad. 

 Nasals elongate, much depressed, anterior extending behind first labial; post- 

 oculars two ; two long narrow temporals. Width of occipitals nearly equal 

 common suture. Nine superior labials ; first pair inferior labials much dila- 

 ted medially, their common suture nearly equal that of pregeneials. Scales 

 seventeen rows. Gastrosteges 176, urosteges 75. Tail and below uniform 

 yellowish. 



Fort Whipple. The stomach contained a Cnemidophorus sexlineatus. 



Hypsiglena ochrorhynchus Cope, Proc. Academy 1860, 246. Var. 

 chlorophaea, 1. c. 247. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Specimen with the small spots (sixty-six dorsal usually divided) of the 

 variety described as above as a species. 



Ophibolus b y 1 i i Baird and Girard, Serpents 82. 



Specimen with loreal minute on one side, wanting on the other. As the 

 practice of employing generic names which have not been explained by a di- 

 agnosis is a very questionable one, and only to be allowed in case of neces- 

 sity, I employ in this and other cases Baird and Girard's names in prefer- 

 ence to the prior ones of Fitzinger; e. g. the above, in place of Lawpropellu, 



Ophibolus pyromelanus m. sp. nov. 



Char. Scales in 23 longitudinal rows ; tail five and one-half times in total 

 length. Scuta 224, 1, 66. Fifty to fifty-eight black annuli on an ochraceous 

 white ground, on the body ; each anteriorly completely, posteriorly more or 

 less incompletely split by a Vermillion annulus ; all extending with irregu- 

 larities on the belly. 



Descr. Head quite distinct from body, muzzle contracted. Frontal plate 

 broad, with prolonged apex; parietals elongate, eraarginate behind ; cephalic 

 shields otherwise asinpolyzonus, splendid us, etc. Postgeneials half 

 the length of the pregeneials. Dorsal scales rather broad, outer series not 

 abruptly enlarged. In one specimen all the black annuli to the middle of 

 the tail are divided by the red, thus leaving the black as a margin to it ; 

 hence the number of these annuli is fewer; they are four scales wide behind 

 the middle of the body; in another specimen only four anterior rings are 

 completely divided, those on the following third of the length being divided 

 by red on the sides ; the remaining annuli black, three scales wide; white 

 annuli one and one-half scales ; anterior or nuchal red; annulus widest, its 

 anterior black margin attaining parietals ; an ochraceous band from gular 

 region, not quite completed across parietals. Muzzle, prefrontal plates and 

 labial margin ochraceous, remainder of top and sides of head black. Total 

 length 30-5 inches. Nos. 731—760. 



This species has a longer body than the known red-ringed species, and is 

 indeed most closely related to the 0. b o y 1 i i ; it will always be distinguished 

 from the latter by the much more numerous annuli (twenty-eight in b o y I i i.) 



Pityophis bellona Bd. Girard Serpents. Stansbury's Exploration, 1852, 

 350. 

 Numerous specimens illustrate well the great variability of the shields of 

 this species. About half do not possess the anterior frontal (vertical,) several 

 have two loreals on one side, some have one preocular on one side, some on 

 both, (typically two ;) four postoculars occur on one side only in two speci- 

 mens, and one has the eye on one side resting on the fifth superior labial, the 

 others on the fourth. Apparently the most abundant snake in the region ex- 

 plored by Dr. Coues, 



Masticophis testaceus Say, Long's Expedition, 1823. Ilerpetodryas jlavi- 

 gularis Hallowell, Pr. A. N. S., 1852. 



Masticophis taeniatus Hallowell, {Leptophis) Proc. Acad, 1852. M, schot- 

 tii B. G., Catalogue Serpents. Leptophis lateralis Hallow., Proc. Acad. 

 1853. 

 The young, of the form lateralis^ the adult, the taeniatus, 



Eutaenia vagrans B. & G., Catalogue. 



Var. with top of the head black. From Zuiii City, in water. Var. with 

 head brown ; like back from San Francisco Mountains, 



Eutaenia ornata B. & G., U. S. Mexic. Bound. Surv. Tab. E. parietalis B. 

 & G., Catalogue Serpents. 

 A very distinct species from the last. Superior labials seven ; postgeneials 

 considerably longer than pregeneials. Tail three and three-fifths in total 



1886.] 20 




806 PROCEEDINGS or THE ACADEMY OF 



length. Scuta 1G7, 1, 85. Lntorul stripe on second and third rows of scales ; 

 vertebral band not visibly black margined. Color above apparently uniform 

 olivaceous until the skin is stretched. 



Kutaenia cyrtopsis Kennicott, Proc. Academy, 18G0, 333. 

 Four specimens, Fort Whipple. 



Eutftcnia macrostemma Kennicott, 1. c. 1860, 331. 



Two specimens, Fort, Whipple. 



The following comparative table will assist in the recognition of these and 

 some other scarcely known species of the genus. 



Scales in nineteen rows ; lateral stripe on the second and third 

 rows : 



Form stout. Temporal small, not attaining the reduced last 

 upper hibial ; superior labials seven ; nuchal blotches same 

 color as head : one series of numerous brown bars connect- 

 ing the light stripes, none of which are black edged scalaris^' 



Form slender. Temporal large, margining the last three upper 

 labials, none of which are reduced ; superior labials eight 

 (seven ;) general color brown, large nuchal blotches and a 

 double series of very small 'lateral spots black ; latter form- 

 ing continuous zigzag on stretched skin ; no black margins, cyrtopsis. 



Form slender, tail three and two-fifths in total ; head narrow, 

 elongate, loreal longer than high ; seven superior labials, 

 temporal not extending beyond penultimate ; above uniform, 

 except on stretched skin, where there is a broad border to 

 dorsal vitta and one lateral row of black spots separated by 

 rufous .... ornata. 



Scales in nineteen rows ; lateral stripe on third and fourth. 



Form stout, head short, rounded, occipital regions convex ; 

 labials 1 — 8, temporal plate small ; gastrostega 138 — 148 ; 

 tail one- fifth total length. Olive brown, unspotted, dorsal 

 and lateral stripes yellow, black bordered ; lips, chin and 

 apostoral crescent to near occipitals, with occipital spots, 

 golden yellow ; two small black nuchal spots ... (sp. nov.) flavilabris.f 



Scales in nineteen rows ; no longitudinal bands. 

 Olive brown, with four series of small black spots, and a 

 trace of two exterior anteriorly ; eight superior labials, last 

 very small, no black margin on the sixth or posterior mar- 

 gin of eighth, but a strong black band from eye across pos- 

 terior margin of seventh to mouth. Sides of head white, 

 extending upwards as two areas, margining each occipital ; 

 behind each a black nuchal spot separated by a narrow white 

 line from its fellow, and extending over occipital plates and 

 half of frontal ; prefrontals transverse sumichrasti.;!; 



Scales in twenty-one rows, lateral stripe on the third and 



fourth. 

 Frontal plate longer than occipital suture ; temporal small, 

 margining only anterior part of penultimate labial ; post- 



* Tbamnophis scnlnris Cope, Pr. A. N. Sci., 1860, 369, from Jalapa, DeOca. Also Orizava, Prof. 

 Sumiehrast, Nos. 36. 37. 



f Two ppecimenH Museum Smithsonian, from the Table Land or Southern Mountains of Mexi- 

 co, pent by Dr. Chas. SnitDrius— vi le Froc. Academy, 1865, 197. One specimen exhil)its eight 

 upper labials, the other seven; iu the latter, one proocular is divided, and four posterior superior 

 labials united. 



X The markinga of this species are entirely peculiar; it is also distinguished by the transverse 

 or narrow prelVontala and internasals. Orizava, Mexico, Prof. F. Sumichrast; No. 45. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



geneials longer than pregeneials ; superior labials eiglit ; 

 loreal higher than long, olivaceous, with one row of small 

 black spots below, and two rows above the lateral stripe. 

 Two small black nuchal spots and a short postoral pale 

 crescent macrostemma.* 



Scales in twenty-one rows, lateral stripe on the second and 

 third. 



Frontal plate shorter than common occipital suture; tempo- 

 ral small, superior labials eight, postgeneials equal or 

 shorter than pregeneials. Ashy, sometimes brown, with 

 narrow, unmargined stripes and very small lateral spots 

 in two rows vagrans. 



Heterodon nasicusB. &G. Stansbury's Explorations, 1852, 352. 



Proteroghjpha. 



Elaps euryxanthus Kennicott, Proc, Acad., Philada., 1860, SST'. 

 Two specimens. Fort Whipple. 



Solenoglypha. 



Oaudisona molossus Bd., Gird., Catalogue. Baird, U. S. Mcx. Bound. 

 Surv., Tab. 

 Two specimens ; dry rocky ground, San Francisco Mountains. 



Caudisona scutulata Kennicott, Proc. Acad. 1861. 



One specimen, twenty inches long; San Francisco Mountains. 



Caudisona confluenta Say, Long's Exped. Rocky Mts., ii. 1823, 48. Baird 

 and Girard, Catalogue, 8. 



Four specimens of this species, which correspond more or less closely with 

 Say's diagnosis, one of ihem especially, in having the cervical macuhe con- 

 fluent into a band. The animal called by this name by Baird and Girard, and 

 named C. lecontei by Dr. Hallowell, which is found on the eastern slopes of 

 the Rocky Mountains and the central plains of Kansas, Missouri, etc., differs 

 from the Arizona form, as I pointed out in t^ynopsis of Crotali in Mitchell's Re- 

 searches, not having then seen specimens of the latter ; yet the two are pro- 

 bably varieties of but one species. They differ as follows : 



Var. confluenta: sixteen superior labials, (eight to) ten rows. of scales 

 between superciliaries ; ground color above bluish slate, no yellow band be- 

 tween eyebrows, on rostral, or margining labials in front. Spaces between 

 dorsal spots orange 



"San Francisco Mountains (510). No. 801 under a log on a mountain, 

 altitude 12,000 feet. 572. No. 678, thirty-one inches long, had an adult Sialia 

 mexicana in its stomach." 



Var. lecontei: fourteen superior labials, six between superciliaries. Ground 

 color, and space between spots brown ; a yellow margin to mouth and rostral 

 plate, and band between supercilia. 



No specimens from Arizona. 



('audisona 1 u c i f e r Baird and Girard, Catalogue, p. 



The numerous specimens of this species brought from Arizona by Drs. 

 Coues and Irwin are nearly black, especially the head. 



509 — 511, etc., San Francisco Mountains. 



* In Mus. Smithsonian there are two varieties, neither of which ascrce strictly with Kennicott's 

 tj'pe. First, the two from Dr. Coues. in whicli the lateral spots are minute, not in contact, and 

 the dorsal vitta more or les.^ black margined; and 8econd, three specimens from Mirador, Vera 

 Cruz, Dr. Sartorius. In these the spots are quadrate, large, including the inferior row; those 

 of the two superior in contact at their angles, Gastrostega of the first 163, of the latter 160. 



1866.] 




308 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Caudisona pyrrha sp. nov. 



Scales in twenty- five series, broad and rounded, the two inferior rows 

 smootli. Head short and very obtuse, the nostrils opening subvertically. 

 Superior labials higher than long, three rows of temporals smooth ; scales of 

 vertex small, keeled ; those more anterior, striate. Superciliarics broad oval, 

 striate. Canthus rostralis none. Inferior labials fifteen, the first and second 

 margining a plate which meets its fellow in front of the gencials, and is in 

 other spwcies a continuation of the first. Gastrosteges 178, urosteges 24; 

 joints of rattle 9. The general tint of this species is a bright salmon red, the 

 scales of the inferior rows punctulate with brown. Other details of structure 

 and coloration are given in the description below. 



The species is one of the most handsomely colored of the genus. Its affini- 

 ties are with the C. m i t c h e 1 1 i i m., but it exhibits an even higher degree 

 of subdivision of the head shields. Mus. Smithsonian, No. 6606. 



I am now acquainted with eighteen well defined species of this genu's, 

 while one or two named remain to be further investigated. They are dis- 

 tributed as follows : , 



Regio Neotropica 5 



S. R. Brasiliana 2 



S. R. Mexicana 4 



Regio Nearctica 13 



S. R. Sonoriana , 10 



S. R. Californiana 1 



S. R. Media 3 



S, R. Orientalis 2 



18 



The intensity of distribution is then the Region of Lower California, Upper 

 Sonora and Arizona, which has seven peculiar species, and three which enter 

 from the neighboring districts.* 



The scattered nature of the literature of this subject renders a synopsis of 

 the species of this important genus desirable. The genus divides itself into 

 two natural sections : 



I. Top of muzzle covered by three pairs of symmetrical shields in contact ; 

 nasals distinct. 



a. Rattle acuminate. 

 C. DURissA Linn. Scales in twenty-nine rows, four rows scales below or- 

 bit. Yellow, with two brown longitudinal bands on anterior part of body, 

 remainder with black rhombs embracing yellow centres. Surinam and 

 Mexico, to Vera Cruz. 



C. TERRiFiCA Laurenti. Four rows scales below orbit ; brown, with two 

 darker bands above anteriorly, and a series of large darker dorsal rhombs 

 with yellow outlines. Brazil, Mexico. 



C. BARiLisoA Cope. Two and three rows scales below eye ; rows on body 

 29; labials 14. Yellow- brov/n, with large adjacent chestnut-red, yellow- 

 bordered dorsal rhombs, alternating with chestnut spots ; no longitudinal 

 bands anteriorly. Western Mexico. 



Alt. Rattle parallelogrammic. 

 C. MOLOssus Bd. & Gird. Twenty-nine rows of scales, eighteen labials, 

 separated by five rows from orbit. Brownish-sulphur above, with small 

 transverse reddish dorsal rhombs, the angles produced as lateral bands ; no 

 longitudinal bands on neck ; tail black. Arizona, New Mexico. 



♦ These facts have been pointed out, Proc. Acad. 1861, 294. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 309 



II. Nasal plates distinct ; muzzle with small plates or numerous scales above. 



a. Muzzle with two marginal shields above each canthus rostralis. 



0. An elevated narrow cuneiform rostral. 



y. The rattle acuminate. 



C. POLYSTiCTA Cope. Scales 27 rows ; sup. labials 14; separated from orbit 

 by two rows. Gray-brown, with seven longitudinal rows of brown spots; top 

 of head variegated. Mexico. 



C. TRiSERiATA Wagler. Scales twenty-three rows ; two pair? of large scales 

 on top of muzzle ; six rows between orbits. Yellowish, with a dorsal series 

 of sub-round brown spots. Mexico. 



C. coNFLUENTA Say. Scales 25-7 ? (-9) rows ; labials 15 to 18, separated 

 from orbit by four rows ; six to ten rows between superciliaries Yellow line 

 from supercilium above angle of mouth ; a medial dorsal row of brown spots 

 emarginate before and behind, with two alternating lateral series. Central 

 and south-west North America. 



yy. The rattle parallelogrammic. 



C. LUCIFER Bd. Gird. Scales 25-7, labials 15-16, with four rows above them. 

 Numerous sub-round blackish dorsal spots, separated by narrow yellow lines ; 

 a light band from supercilia above angle of mouth. Pacific region North 

 America and Arizona. 



C. SCUTULATA Kcunicott. Scales 25 rows, superior labials 16 ; three or four 

 rows interorbital scales, bounded in front by two shields. Yellow stripe from 

 eyebrow above rictus oris ; yellowish-brown, with a dorsal series of truncate 

 brown yellow-edged rhombs ; tail black-ringed. Arizona. 



C. ATROX Bd., Gird. Scales 25-7 rows, labials 15 ; muzzle with small 

 scales above; yellowish, with a dorsal series of complete yellow-edged brown 

 rhombs ; yellow band from supercilium above angle of mouth. Texas and 

 Sonora. Tail black-ringed. 



C. ADAMANTEA Bcauvois. Scalcs 27 rows; labials 15 — 16; muzzle above 

 with small scales, acuminate. Brown, with three series of brown yellow- 

 edged complete rhombs, the median larger, only separated by their yellow 

 margins ; a yellow line from supercilium to angle mouth. Florida and 

 Georgia. 



C. HORRiDA Linnaeus. Scales 23 — 5 rows, all carinate ; labials 12 — 14 ; two 

 rows between them and orbit. Light line from superciliary plate to angle of 

 mouth ; two series of dorsal rhombs, confluent except on the anterior part of 

 the body, forming transverse zigzag blotches ; tail black. Eastern district 

 of North America. 



/?/S. An equilateral broad or depressed rostral. Rattle acuminate. 



C. BNYO Cope. Scales 23 rows, sup. labials 13; superciliaries separated by 

 siy rows ; scales on muzzle small. Above yellow, with a median series of 

 small transverse rhombs, which are prolonged into vertical lateral black 

 bars; former median and longitudinal on neck; light line to above canthus 

 oris. Lower California. 



C. TIGRIS Kennicott. Scales 21 — 3 rows, numerous smooth plates on top of 

 muzzle ; labials 14, separated by two rows from orbit, superciliary space wide. 

 Yellowish ash, with small doral blotches on anterior one, and cross-bands on 

 posterior two-thirds of body. Deserts of Gila and Colorado. 



tfa. Upper margin of canthus rostralis with small scales like the others. 

 f. Prenasal in contact with rostral ; supetciliary prolonged into a horn. 

 C. CERASTES Hallowell. Two elongate preorbitals ; rostral broad as high ; 

 rattle parallelogramrnic. Scales 21 — 3; labials 11 — 13. Light yellowish, 



1866.] 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



with scvfral scries small brown spots, median largest. Deserts of Gila and 

 Colorado. 



ft. Prenasal separated from rostral by scales; superciliary not prolonged. 



C. MiTCHKLLii Cope. Kostral broad as long; scales 25 rows; labials 16, 

 separated from orbits by three rows ; two elongate preorbitals, one loreal ; 

 yellowish- gr>ty, with indistinct quadrate dorsal spots soj)urated by yellow, 

 and becoming cross-bands on posterior fourth. Rattle parallelogrammic. 

 Ijpwer California. 



C PYRRHA Cope. Rostral broad as long ; head very obtuse rounded. Scales 

 25 rows, seven between superciliaries, three below orbit; labials 14; two 

 very small preorbitals and four loreals. Pale Vermillion varied with yellow 

 on the sides of the belly, with numerous large reddish-bay transverse hexa- 

 gons, which become transverse bands on posterior two-ihirds of length ; 

 yellow below. Rattle subacuminate. Arizona. 



The C. lepida of Kennicott remains, which is the type of a genus now first 

 defined under the name of 



Aploaspis m., and characterized by the presence of a single large nasal 

 shield, which is pierced by a small central nostril. 



I. Muzzle with numerous smooth plates above. 



A. LEPIDA Kennicott. Rostral broad, low ; scales of top of muzzle and 

 vertex large, smooth ; upper preorbital very small, loreals three ; labials 

 twelve, separated by one row from orbit ; no postocular band. Rio Grande, 

 Texas. 



Testddinata. 



Aromochelys carinatus Gray, Catal. Shield Rep. Brit. Mus. Ozothtca 

 tristycha Agassiz, Contrib. N. Hist. U. S., vol. i. 



To the forty-four species procured by Dr. Coues may be added the follow- 

 ing, procured by Dr. Irwin from the neighborhood of Fort Buchanan (near 

 Tucson), in the southern part of the territory : 



Uma notata* Bd. Trimorphodon lyrophanes Cope. 



Gyalopium canum Cope. 



Added chiefly by Maj. Emory, on the United States and Mexican Boundary 

 Survey, mainly according to the Report by Prof. Baird. 

 Cnemidophorus melanostethus Cope. 



" gracilis Bd. Caudisona atrox Bd.^ Gird. 



Euphryne obesa ^(/. " tigris Kenn. 



Uta graciosa Ilalloio. " cerastes Hallow. 



Sceloporus clarkii Bd., Grd. Tropidonotus validus Kenn. 



Dipsosaurus dorsalis Ihillow. Ophibolus splendidds Bd.., Gird. 



Callisaurus ventralis Hallow. Phimothyra grahamiae Bd., Gird. 



Phrynosoma regale Gird. Sonora semiannulata Bd., Gird. 



" maccnllii Hallow. Chionactis occipitale Hallow. 



Coleonyx variegatus Baird. Diadophis regalis Bd. Gird. 



Bufo alvarius Gird. 



" debilis G. (insidior Gird.) 

 Hyla cadaverina Cope. 

 In all, sixty-eight species, referrable to twenty-seven genera. Of the latter 

 there are : 



* This i.s the only adult in the Smithsonian Mnscum, a yon ng specimen having previously served 

 as the type. The genus is distinguished from Calli.-aurus by the presence of a series of spines 

 moveable on their bases, on the outer margin of ihr f >ot. 



The coloration is peculiar ; ground color black, covered everywhere by large yellow Crerl ?) disci- 

 form spots, wiiose margins are everywhere nearly in contact, leaving a pattern like the refuse of 

 a buttoa-maker's plates; each ^ot has a black centre. Length eight inches, tail short. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ill 



Eatirely or nearly entirely 

 Nearctic. 



11. 



Nearctic : extensively 

 distributed in Mexi- 

 can district of Neo- 

 tropical R. 



HI. 



Nearctic : extending into 

 Continental district of 

 Neotropical. 



Sceloporus, 



Ophibolus, 



Eutaenia, 



Tropidonotus, 



Rana, 



Spea, 



Cnemidophorus, 



Heterodon, 



Masticophis, 



Elaps, 



Caudisona, 



Bufo, 



Hyla. 



Species 22. 



Phrynosoma, 



Orotaphytus, 



Holbrookia, 



Plistodon, 



Contia, 



Diadophis, 



Pityophis, 



Aromochelys, 



Amblystoraa. 



Sonoran Species 19. Species 13. 



IV. Genera confined to the Sonoran district, which extend into the Mexican: 



Uta, Heloderma, Euphryne, Phimothyra. 



Sonoran species 5. 



V. Genera confined to the Sonoran district which do not extend into Mexico : 



Callisaurus, Dipsosaurus, Uma, Sonora, 



Gyalopium, Chionactis. 



Species 6. 

 VI. Genera chiefly Mexican, which extend into the Sonoran district, (the 

 first two to the Rio Grande) : 



Coleonyx, Hypsiglena, Trimorphodon. 



Species 3. 

 Of the nineteen species embraced in the first table, there are — 

 Found in Pacific district. Middle district, Peculiar, 



Phrynosoma douglassii. Phynosoma douglassii, Phrynosoma, 5 sp. 

 Crotaphytus coUaris, 

 Holbrookia maculata, 



*' texana, 



Plistodon guttulatus, 

 *' obsoletus, 

 Pityophis bellona, 

 Aromochelys carinatus. 

 8 sp. 



Crotaph. wislizenii, 

 Holbr. propinqua. 

 Contia isozona. 

 Diadophis regalis, 

 Amblystoma nebulosum. 



sp. 



10 sp. 



Of the thirteeen species of the second table there are of the same character — 



Sceloporus graciosus, 

 Ophibolus boylii, 

 Spea hammondii. 



sp. 



Sceloporus consobrinus, Ophibolus pyromelanus. 



clarkii, 

 Eutaenia vagrans, 

 Rana halecina. 



" splen-didus, 



Eutaenia cyrtopsis, 



'' macrostemma, 



'' ornata, 

 Tropidonotus validus. 

 6 sp. 



4 sp. 



Of the twenty-two species of the third table of genera, the distribution in 

 the same respects is as follows : 

 Masticophis tfeniatus, Cnemidophorus 6-lineatus, Cnemid. gracilis. 



Caudisona lucifer. 



2 sp. 



1866.] 



Heterodon nasicus, 

 Masticophis testaceus, 

 Caudisona confluenta, 



" atrox, 



Bufo dorsalis. 



sp. 



" melanostethus, 

 Elaps euryxanthus, 

 Caudisona scutulata, 

 " pyrrha, 



" molossus, 



" tigris, 



" cerastes, 



Bufo microscaphus, 

 Hyla arenicclor, 

 " cadaverina, 

 «II species. 




{ 



312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



It then npponrs, from the preceding tables, that the species of this district 

 nre of the following distribution : 



Occurring in the Pacific district 6 



middle " 18 



Tab. I 10 



II 6 



Confined to the 1 III 11 



Sonoran dist. 1 IV 6 



V ;... 6 



t VI • 6 



— 44 



"We may now institute some comparisons with the Reptile fauna of Cape St. 

 Lucas, based on the material obtained by Consul Jno. Xantus ; and give first a 

 Tab. VII. Genera common to Cape St. Lucas and Arizona: 

 Caudisona, Uta, 



Trimorphodov, Callisaurus, 



llypsiglena, Sceloporus, 



Pityophis, Phrynosoma, 



Tropidonotus, DipsosaurtiSj 



Euta^nia, Cneraidophorus, 



rhimothyra, Bufo, 



Masticophis, Hyla. 



Ophibolus, 

 Seventeen, of which five are peculiarly characteristic of the Sonoran dis- 

 trict among those of the Nearctic Region, as per tables iv. v. \i. 



I have already pointed out (Proc. Acad. 1861, 305*) that of the sixteen spe- 

 cies of Ophidians of Cape St. Lucas eight are peculiar to it ; as the Hypsiglena 

 of Arizona is probably not different, the number should be reduced to seven. 

 Of the remaining nine there are — 



Of the Pacific district, Sonoran, S. Central, 



Ophibolus boylii. Caudisona atrox, Caudisona atrox, 



Trimorphodon lyrophanes, 

 Hypsiglena ochrorhynchus 

 Tropidonotus validus, 

 Euta^nia cyrtopsis 

 Phimothyra grahamire, 



Masticophis testaceus, Mastic, testaceus. 

 Stenostoma humile. 



I species. 8 sp. 2 sp. 



Of the Lacertilians, of which no synopsis has hitherto appeared, there were 

 fourteen in the Xantusian collections. Of these there were — 



Confined to the Cape, Also Sonoran, Represented in Sonoran 



Diplodactylus unctus Cope, Uta stansburiana, by — 



Phyllodactylus xanti C, Dipsosaurus dorsalis. 



Uia nigricauda C, 

 " thalassina C, 

 Callisaurus dracontoides Blv. C. ventralis Ball.^ 



Sceloporus zosteromus C, S. clarkii B., G. 



Phrynosoma coronatum, Blv. 

 Ctenosaura hemilopha, C, 

 Cnemidophorus maximus, C, 



" hyperythrus C, 



Xantusia vigilis Bd. 



II sp. 2 sp. 2 sp. 

 Gerrhonotus multicarinatus Blv., one »p., belonging entirely to the Pacific 

 district^ 



* In enumerating the Ophiiliaii genera of Central America in the same connection, by a lapsus 

 calami Ilyclrndipsas was written Inst-ad of Hi/dromorphns Peters, and not properlj^ conected. The 

 former is really East Indian (Malaccan), and is the same as that preyiously named Cantoria by 

 Girard,— a fact apparently not before noticed. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



There were four species of Batrachia of the following range : 

 Peculiar to the Peninsula, Hyla curta Cope, s. n. 



Extending to Pacific district, *' regilla B., G. 



Extending to South Central, Scaphiopus couchii, (var. varius C ) 

 ". " " Bufo puuctatus B., G. 



The relations of the Sonoran district fauna, then, to that of Cape St. Lucas, 

 are as follows : 



Total number Sonoran 68 



Confined to it 45 



Total number Cape St. Lucas- 34 



Confined to it 19 



Common to the two 10 



Cape St. Lucas sp. in South Central district 4 



" " Pacific district 3 



The only genus occurring at Cape St. Lucas which does not exist elsewhere 

 in the Regio Nearctica, is Ctenosaura, which is Mexican. 



Prof. Baird has regarded (Proc. Acad. 1859, 300) the Sonoran and Lower 

 Californian provinces as identical, and has pointed out the slight affinity of 

 the latter to the Pacific district. It appears from the preceding that, in re- 

 spect to the reptiles, they constitute provinces nearly as distinct from each 

 other as the Sonoran is from the Central, a conclusion agreeing with that 

 attained by Dr. John L. LeConte from a study of the Coleoptera, (vid. Proc. 

 Acad. 1861, 335). That these, and the Pacific province, are more nearly re- 

 lated to each other than to the Eastern province, is sufficiently apparent on 

 general Herpetological and other grounds, as set forth in Prof. Baird's masterly 

 review of the distribution of North American Birds, Silliman's Journ. Sci, 

 and Arts, 1866. 



Dr. Giinther has indicated the Tropic of Cancer as the approximate division 

 line between the Nearctic and Neotropical Regions; the writer (1. c. 1861, 

 306) has regarded this as the parallel of its eastern extremity, and placed the 

 western several degrees further north. More recently Prof. Baird (1. c.) has 

 indicated a less oblique division, raising the eastern extremity to the mouth 

 of the Rio Grande, and terminating it on the west at Guaymas. While he 

 characterizes the line as "arbitrary" for the birds, it is much less so for 

 terrestrial vertebrates ; in these the transition of faunae is striking and quite 

 abrupt. 



Description o/Hyla curta Cope, supra. 



Form stout, size small, breadth of jaws entering total length two and two- 

 third times. Males without gular vocal vesicle. Tongue nearly one-third 

 free. Femur posteriorly unicolor ; basal fold weak. A dark labial border 

 and band from nostril to axilla, above ashy brown, with a dark interocular 

 triangle and a broad dorso-lateral band on each .side, often broken into 

 elongate spots. Limbs punctulate and cross-barred. 



Muzzle projecting beyond nares not very prominent ; cantbus rostralis well 

 defined, straight, loreal region not concave. Eyes little prominent, diameter 

 less than distance between origins of canthus rostralis, three times that of 

 tympanum. Vomerine fascicles entirely between nares, choanse small. Skin 

 smooth to sparsely and finely tuberculate above. Digits stout, dilatations 

 well defined except on the inner anterior; all the latter free, the posterior 

 not elongate, webbed to base of second phalanx. Hind foot measures one 

 and two-thirds width of head; the heel extended reaches anterior margin of 

 orbit. The sacral diapophyses are slender, like those of H. p i c k e r i n gi i. 

 Tarsal fold distinct, cuneiform process small ; heel extended reaches anterior 

 orbit. 



The groin is sometimes mottled with black, and the sides often with brown, 



1866.] 




814 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



or mftrblcd, wliicli may oxtond over the iliac repjion. Somptimes all the dark 

 markings are niarhlod with paler. There is a hand on tiie fiout of the hu- 

 merus, uud the hind limbs are frequently double-baud'ed. 



Lined. 



From end of muzzle to canthus oris 3-9 



" " to vent .".... 12 



Length of fore limb 7-4 



" hind " 184 



" " foot , 8-6 



Interorbital breadth 18 



Like capistrata, p all i at a, and the Eastern p i c k e r i n g ii, this is 

 one of the smallest species of the genus ; in fo-rm it is the most distantly re- 

 moved from the typical forms, approaching distantly Chorophilus, which it 

 resembles in color. The lack of a vocal vesicle, not rarely occurring in the 

 genus Rana, I have not observed in any other species of this genus. 



No. 5293, 19 specimens half (J"), Cape St. Lucas. Jno. Xantus. 



Novemher QtJi. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty three merabors present. 



The following were ojQFered for publication : 



" Fifth contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America." By 

 Ed. D. Cope. <' On the Habits of the Agricultural Ant of Texas." 

 By Gideon C. Lincecum. 



Dr. Hayden made some remarks in regard to an extensive chalk deposit on 

 the Missouri river. He also exhibited to the Academy some fossils, fishes and 

 shells, which had been taken from these qhalk deposits by Mr. Geo. A. Prop- 

 per, a resident of Yankton, the capital of Dakota Territory. This formation 

 has been known for many years, and represents No. 3, or Niobrara group of the 

 Cretaceous series of this region. It commences at a point on the Missouri 

 river not far from Blackbird hill, overlapping, on the high hills, Nos. 1 and 2 

 of the Cretaceous series. Near the mouth of the Vermilion River it begins to 

 occupy the country, to the exclusion of any other rocks, and passes beneath 

 the bed of the Missouri near the Great Bend. It is thus visible for nearly 400 

 miles along the river. The fossils which have thus far been taken from this 

 bed are not numerous in species. The Ostrea congesta, Conrad, is perhaps the 

 most abundant shell. It is found in many localities aggregated in vast masses, 

 reminding one much of the little raccoon oyster that is left by the receding of 

 the tice along the shores of the sea islands of South Carolina. 



Inr (eramus problemadciis is nhundant between Blackbird hill and mouth of 

 Big & oux river. It is found in a grey, rather hard, chalk limestone, which 

 forms the base of the formation No. 3, and the rock is used much by the set- 

 tlers for building purposes and for burning into lime. /. pseudomytiloides and 

 /. I viculoides are found at different localities. This rock varies greatly in 

 coh r as well as texture, from a lead grey to milk white. It is oftener a deep 

 rust color, owing to the presence of the peroxide of iron. It resembles very 

 much our common chalk of commerce, and might be used for similar economi- 

 cal purposes. Although the organic remains thus far found in this formation 

 do not positively affirm it, yet there can be hardly a doubt that it is the Ame- 

 rici n representative of the white chalk beds of Europe. The fish remains are 

 mai y of them quite well preserved, and as they belong apparently to unde- 

 sci'bed species, they are placed in the collections of the Academy for future 

 study. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP I HILADELrHIA. 315 



The dpaths were announced of Mr. Francis A. Wolgaraufh, a mem- 

 ber, and of Dr. Robert W. Gribbes, of Columbia, S. C, correspondent. 

 Also that of Mr. Robert Kennicott, correspondent, which occurred near 

 Behrine^'s St aits. 



November l^th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirtj'-five members present. 



The fuUowioju; was offt^red for publication : " Description bf the 

 Hot Springs of Soda Creek, &c.'' By E. L. Berthouel. 

 Mr. Isaac Lea read the following letter : 



New Garden^ 5th ofdth mo., 1866. 

 Isaac Lea. 



Dear Friend, — As science is the accumulation of facts, and the legitimate 

 inductions derived from them, I offer no further apology for this intrusion. 



Our HeLicidx and other land shells generally pass the day in damp secluded 

 places, among grass, under logs and fallen leaves, and even buried beneath the 

 surface of the earth in dry weather, and are consequently difficult to find. 

 From these retreats they sally forth during the night, enlivened by the falling 

 dew — or still ipore by a shower of rain — in quest of food and pleasure. But 

 here they are screened from observation by the darkness of the night. 



Knowing their habits, and having often found them under boards or other 

 dejected matter, it occurred to me several years ago to make this knowledge 

 available in collecting such shells. My success has been most gratifying to 

 myself — may it not prove equally so to others? The plan which I adopted is 

 this : On a summer evening, after rain, I lay a wet board on the ^vet grass any- 

 where in my yard, lawn, or pasture, and on the following morning find the 

 shells adhering to the under surface. In this way I have at various times ob- 

 tained the following species in greater or less abundance : — 



Succinea avara, Vallonia minuta, 



Hyalina indentata, Bulimus marginatus, 



arborea, Leucocheila contracta, 



Gastrodonta suppressa, corticaria, 



Strobila labyrinthica, pentodon, 



Anguispira alternata, Isthmia ovata, 



Patula striatella, gouldii, 



Helicodiscus lineata, milium, 



Pseudohyalina minuscula, armifera. 



Only a week ago, on removing a small log from my pasture, where it had lain 

 some months, I accidentally detected a few shells of Isthmia milium, hitherto un- 

 noticed in this vicinity. The next evening, after rain, I laid three boards, each 

 four feet long and six inches wide, upon the spot, and the next morning ob- 

 tained 250 Ist. milium, 15 Leuc. pentodon, 3 Gast. suppressa, and 6 Fseud. minus- 

 cula. 



The plan here suggested is susceptible of extensive application to the pur- 

 poses of the practical conchologist and travelling collector of shells, wherever 

 they may chance to pass the night ; especially so, as I have found by repeated 

 trials that a bucket of water thrown on the grass and covered with a board 

 affords all the conditions necessary for success about as well as a shower of 

 rain. No cumbrous apparatus is required to load the traveller ; the means will 

 always be at hand wherever he may chance to lodge, and a few moments of 

 the evening and morning will suffice to set his traps and bag the game. 



The record of a journey across this wide continent, so conducted, would 



1866.] 




816 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



probably ("xliibit the evcr-c']i!in<j^itip^ inyc't)h)}]^ical t'auniv of (lie country in a very 

 ♦liHeroni lit^bt from what it now appears. New S])ecies would no doubt be dis- 

 covered, and the boundaries of the old ones more accurately determined. 



Within the week I have obtained 8G(5 /. milium in the locality mentioned, 

 and after considerable search have found only a single shell in the whole field, 

 more than four yards from the spot first designated ; a singular instance of 

 the extreme localization of a species which is quite numerous at that point. 

 Which is respectfully submitted by thy sincere friend, 



E. MlCHENER. 



Dr. Ilayden reported the discovery of a Mastodon tooth in the Post- 

 pliocene drift near Fort Kearney, and another in the eame formation 

 in the bluffs opposite St. Louis. 



E. D. Cope pointed out the anomalous relations existing between the tibia 

 and fibula in certain of the Dinosauria, as illustrated by the genus Laelaps. 

 lie remarked : The distal extremity of the tibia is transverse, and much com- 

 pressed, and does not exhibit any of the usual appearances of an articular sur- 

 face, neither the reptilian condyle, nor a cotyloid cavity sufficient for an astra- 

 galus of the size necessary for an animal of such bulk. A bone, presenting a 

 broad hour-glass-faced articular surface was discovered with the other remains, 

 and had puzzled the anatomists wljo had seen it. This piece exhibits, along its 

 whole posterior aspect, two faces, which form a reentrant angle for a fixed arti- 

 culation : this is found to have been applied to the extremity of the tibia, ex- 

 actly, and to have been fixed by strong articular ligaments. The medially con- 

 stricted condyle presenting forwards and a little downwards exhibits so little 

 analogy with the artragalus, as to suggest other interpretations, and, after a 

 careful examination, it seems evidently the distal extremity of the fibula. 

 This element furnishes a small articular surface at the knee, and fitting the 

 tibia by the concavity of its inner face, becomes greatly attenuated at its distal 

 third, where it is, in consequence of an obliquity of its direction, applied- to the 

 anterior face of the former bone. It then spreads into a plate extending to the 

 inner margin of the tibia, while the solid shank is continued along the outer 

 margin, and both terminate in the massive condyle which embraces the whole 

 extremity of the tibia, like an epiphysis. 



One other example only of this structure is known in the Vertebrata, of 

 which I only find mention in Cuvier, Ossemens Fossiles x., p. 204, tab. 249, 

 fig. 34-5. This author studied the distal extremity of a tibia with applied fibu- 

 lar condyle, from Honfleur, which he was not able to assign to any known spe- 

 cies or genus, but which he, with usual sagacity, includes in the chapter 

 devoted to Megalosaurus. 



He however regarded the face of the tibia receiving the condyle-bearing 

 bone as the inner, instead of the anterior, stating that the tibia is laterally 

 instead of antero-posteriorly compressed, so anomalous is this structure among 

 vertebrates. He regarded the bone as the astragalus, and did not perceive any 

 connection between its ascending apophysis and a fibula, partly because a 

 fibula with distinct distal articulation was received with the same bones. 



Thfe fibular condyle possesses an articular facet on its exterior extremity, 

 (anterior, Cuvier), probably adapted to a corresponding face of a calcaneum. 

 Its plane is transverse and does not cover the whole extremity, the anterior 

 margin and a knob on the antero-superior part of the extremity projecting 

 beyond it. Exterior to the middle of the upper margin of this piece, and at the 

 internal base of the ascending apophysis, it is perforate, as is the cavity above 

 the condyles of the humerus in the higher apes, and may have received a simi- 

 lar coronoid process of an astragalus. 



As compared with the species examined by Cuvier, this fibular condyle has 

 a less elevated form ; in Cuvier's specimen the ascending apophysis was flatter, 

 broader and directed toward the calcaneal facet instead of from it ; it lacked 



fNov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



3l7 



the submedian perforation. Its tibial face appears to have been rounded, not 

 angulate. The tibia presented an ascending ridge, to the face of which the 

 ascending apophysis was applied ; in the Laelaps aquilunguis there is no 

 ridge, the apophysis reposing in a slight concavity. This apophysis, like the 

 'slender portion of the fibula, is composed of dense bone. 



Cuvier describes at the same time a bone of which he says, " il ne serait pas 

 impossible que I'os (fig. 39) fut la tete superieur du perone du pied que je viens 

 de decrire." This piece has a shank compressed at right angles to the direction 

 of its head, a form so unlike the fibular of known Dinosauria, including Mega- 

 losaurus and Laelaps, as to render its pertinence to the animal possessing the 

 forementioned tibia, to say the least, very doubtful. 



The direction of the condyle indicates the articulation of the tarsal elements 

 to have been at a considerable angle with the shank of the leg, and that the 

 animal was entirely plantigrade, and was unable to extend the foot in line with 

 the lower leg. The animal's weight was no doubt shared by another tarsal 

 bone, besides the astragalus, owing to the anterior position of the former. 



In. most known Dinosauria the relations of tibia and fibula are similar to 

 those in the modern Lacertilia. It would appear then that this class existed 

 under two ordinal modifications ; the first, including Scelidosaurus Ow., Hylaeo- 

 saurus Mant., Iguanodon Mant., and Hadrosaurus Leidy, may be called the 

 Orthopoda ; the second including Laelaps Cope, and probably Megalosaurus 

 Buckl., may be termed the Goniopoda. 



November 20th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The following was offered for publication : " Descriptions of some 

 new species of Diurnal Lepidoptera.'' By Tryon Reakirt. 



November 27th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Forty-two members i3resent. 



On favorable report of the Committees the following were ordered 

 to be published : * 



Fifth Contribution to the HERPETOLOGY of Tropical America. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The following species, previously unknown to the scientific system, are 

 selected from the collections made at different points in Mexico by the 

 esteemed correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, Drs. Arthur Schott, 

 Francis Sumichrast, Berendt, and Major. 



OPHIDIA. 



Himantodes tenuisaimus m. sp. nov. 



Vertebral series of scales small, like the rest, altogether in seventeen 

 rows. Head broad, very obtuse, prenasals approaching each other ; loreal 

 BUbquadrate ; preorbitals 2 or 1, postorbitals narrow, two. Superior labials, 

 eighth, fourth and fifth, sometimes ttiird in orbit. Frontal anterior suture 

 longer than lateral, which converge behind ; length of shield three-fourths 

 common suture of parietals ; temporals 1 or 2 — 3. 

 1866.] 




818 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Body exceedingly slender and compressed. Oastroateges 2no, anal divided, 

 ur<iate};es 157. Total length 2 feet 9 inches, tail 105 indies; length of head 

 5 lines. 



Ashy white, with fifty transverse black light-edged spots on the body, 

 which approach closelv on the median line ; on the tail 39 spots. Below, 

 belly minntely punctulated ; tail brown spotted. 



ijie abi^eme of the doi sal shields would indicate a wide separation of this 

 species from the type of the genus H. cenchoaL., but for the existence 

 of H. gemmistratns Cope, in which this series is much narrowed, 

 approaching the ordinary form of scale. 



Smithson., No G563 ; 'Schott, No. 903. This, with the three species follow- 

 ing, form part of the collection made by Dr. Schott under direction of Governor 

 Ilarregin, of Yucatan. 



Mesopeltis sanniolus m. genus et spec. nov. 



Char. Gen. — Maxillary, palatine and pterygoid bones elevated lamlniform, 

 the first bearing slender teeth to opposite middle of orbit. Ctphalic shields 

 normal; posteiior genials quite small, the first pair united into an ovoid 

 shield which is in contact with the symphyseal. No scale pores. Anal divided. 

 Body compressed, head quite distinct, with large eye and vertical pupil. 

 Scales smooth, without laiger veitebral series. 



Char. Specif. — Muzzle contracted, labial margin and mandible especially so, 

 from under the orbit. Rostral not visible from above ; two short nasals ; 

 loreal narrow, erect ; prroculars two, very narrow, the infeiior very small. 

 Vertical, nearly twice as long as broad at its middle ; a little longer than 

 parietal suture ; its outlines straight. Superior labials eight— nine, the sub- 

 orbitals the fourth and fifth, longitudinal. Inferior labials ten, the anterior 

 four very small, the fifth narrow, oblique. Back and belly equally rounded ; 

 scales in fifteen series. Tail cylindrical. Gastrosteges IStJ ; urosteges 55 

 (approximately). 



Length of head and body 11 inches. 



Above light blown, with one series of small dark brown spots on the median 

 line separated bv intervals nearly equal to their diameter. A broad nuchal 

 band continued to middle of frontal shield. Lips and sides with numerous 

 pale brown spots ; under surfaces generally with minute brown punctu- 

 lations. 



Smithsonian No. 6564. 



This is another of the Leptognath forms which occur in the tropics of both 

 worlds, but most abundant y in the neotropical region. It is more distinct 

 from Leptognathus D. B. than is Tropidodipsas Gthr. 



Conophis concolor m. sp. nov. 



The largest species of the genus : form stout, tail 4^ times in total length. 

 Scales in nineteen rows, broad. Frontal region and muzzle nairow elongate, 

 anterior to frontal shield, equal length of latter, and considerably longer than 

 occipitals. Rostial with a strong concentric groove below, nasals distinct, 

 elongate ;*loreal longer than high, parallelogrammic ; preorbitals not reaching 

 frontals ; postorbitals two, rather large. Superior labials eight, eye over 

 fourth and fifth, penultimate higher than long, last nearly as elevated. One 

 elongate inferior temporal, the superior subdivided, (in two specimens.) 

 Inferior labials 10. Gastrosteges 166', urosteges 72. Color above pale yel- 

 lowish brown ; a brown band, from the end of the muzzle through the eye, is 

 lost a short distance behind opposite the mouth, and on one of the specimens 

 two incomplete dotted lines extend from the sides of the frontal, and, diverg- 

 ing, are lost on the nape. Superior labials and rostral margined with brown 

 below. Under surfaces light yellow. 



Total length 32 inches. 



Two specimens (138). 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHfLAJ ELPHIA. 319 



This species furnisbes a strong degree of sulcation of the elongate posterior 

 maxillary teeth. The sulcus is deep, and its external margins approxiraat-)d, 

 though not closed, as in the fangs of Proterogljphs. The tooth has an ele- 

 vated trenchant ridge on its posterior aspect. 



Coluber f 1 a v i r u f u s m. sp. nov. 



Intermediate in characters between C. triaspis Cope and C. emoryi 

 Bd. Gird. Scales in twenty-seven series, all rather small, four median rows 

 only slightly carinate. Frontal, vertical and prefrontal shields longer than broad, 

 length of former equal to common suture of parietals. Orbitals 1 — 2, the 

 anterior large, nearly reaching vertical ; the single loreal obliquely truncate 

 behind, nearly triangular. Labials nine, fourth, fifth and sixth margining 

 orbit. Orbit large, its diameter equal distance from nares to its anterior 

 border. Two or three narrow elongate temporals between labials and parietal, 

 anteriorly declined and in contact with postoculars. Postgeneials very 

 slender, separated by scales, nearly equal pregeneials ; inferior labials 13. 

 Tail slender, 41 times in total length. Length of a young individual 1 foot 

 10 inches. 



Ground-color yellow, below unspotted, above marked with brick-red spots, 

 broadly brown margined. Tiiere are from 40 to 47 of these to opposite vent, 

 some of them divided and alternating, and a row of alternating .-pots on the 

 sides ; alternating with the latter an irregular series of still smaller mark- 

 ings. A longitudinal included yellow line on the nape ; a similar brown 

 mark on frontal plate, and transverse band on prefontals ; other head mark- 

 ings few and broken, including a narrow line from orbit to cantbus oris. 



Smithsonian, No. 6^j6Q. Yucatan. 



This species has been found also at Tabasco by Dr. Berendt, and sent to the 

 Smithsonian Institution. This specimen has the orbit a little smaller, three 

 instead of two oblique temporals, and 47 dorsal spots. 



Bascanion suboculare sp. nov. 



Gastrostegcs 200, anal i, urosteges 111. 



Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows, the two external larger, the median 

 half their width. Tail three and five-sixths times in total length. Muzzle 

 short, rostral plate little visible above. Orbit moderate ; its longitudinal 

 diameter equal transverse width of superciliary plate. Frontal plate narrow, 

 sides concave, length equal from its anterior margin to end of muzzle, and 

 greater than length of common occipital suture. Internasals of nearly equal 

 diameters ; prefrontals bent down on loreal region. Nasals large, loreal 

 longitudinal ; preooulars two, inferior minute, superior not reaching frontal, 

 prolonged backwards over orbit, and with strong canthal ridge. Postoculars 

 two ; occipitals not emarginate behind. Superior labials seven, the fourth 

 very large, supporting not only the orbit, but the pre- and postoculars ; 

 fifth subtriangular apex truncate by inferior temporal ; sixth and Seventh 

 large and nearly equal, longitudinal. Tempor Is in a superior and inferior 

 row of .^, the upper extending to end of occipitals, the lower to last labial. 

 Pregeneials little longer than broad, much shorter than postgeneials. In- 

 ferior labials nine, the fifth largest, the eighth longitudinal, narrow. 



Length of head and body 64 in. 5 lin. ; of tail 22 in. 6 lin. 



Habitat. — Central Guatimala ; specimen from between Coban and Clusec. 

 Henry Hague, Collector. 



This large species belongs to the section of the genus characterized by two 

 preocular plates which em\)races B. constrictor Linn., B. flaviventris 

 Say, B. vet us turn Bd. Gird., and B. a u t h i o \i m Cope. From all 

 these it differs in i,he arrangement of the labial and temporal shields, and the 

 greater number of abdominal and caudal scuta. 



1866.] 




320 PROCEEDINGS OP TDE ACADEMY OP 



Scolecophia scytalinns sp. rov. 



SoJilfs in srvent«'en rows, each nearly as broad as long, the vertebral series 

 larger than any other, but equal on anterior seventh of body. Head little 

 distinct, obtuse, muzzle broad ; frontal plate broad, anterior suture one- 

 fourth longer than lateral or posterior, length greater than common suture of 

 occipitals. Superciliary small, one narrow preocular, two subcjuadrate post- 

 oculars. Loreal subquadrate, nasals distinct ; rostral slightly produced 

 backwards above, interuasals one-fourth size of prefrontals. Temporals 2 — 

 2 or 3 anterior long. Superioi labials eight, first and second much 

 separated by prenasal, fourth and fifth below orbit, seventh and eighth 

 elongate. Inferior labials eight, two anterior in usual contact, postgeneials 

 shorter than pregeneials. Gastrosteges 207, anal 1, urosteges 7, entire, 71 

 paired. 



Total length 23 in., of tail 4 in. 9 lin. 



Color above red, each scale tipped with blackish ; a broad black collar, ten 

 scales wide, not extending on the gastrosteges. Head yellow above, front of 

 bead black to postoculars and anterior part of occipitals, tipping chin. 



Museum Smithsonian, No. 6581. Collected by Dr. Bereudt near Tabasco, 

 Mexico. 



The genus was defined by the author in the Proceedings of Aeademy for 

 1861 to embrace S. atrocinctus D. B. and S. zonatus Hallowell, 

 which differ from Tantilla in the presence of the loreal plate, and from Ery- 

 throlamprus in the entirety of the anal shield. The present discovery gives 

 further evidence of the stability of this form. Rhadinsea annulata 

 (Enicognathus Dum., Bibr.,) was procured by Dr. Berendt at the same place. 



Tantilla calamarina sp. nov. 



Scales in fifteen longitudinal rows, head flat, not dislinguished ; tail con- 

 tained six and three-fifth times in the total length. Pre- and postorbitals one 

 each, small ; superior labials six, third and fourth bounding orbit, and pre- 

 and postorbital scales. Superciliaries small. Prefrontals descending to con- 

 tact with second labial ; nasals large ; internasals narrow; frontal longer than 

 broad, angulated in front, occipitals elongate, embracing a'scale in their emargi- 

 nation. Temporals 1 — 1, the anterior not in contact with the postocular. 

 Inferior labials seven, fourth largest, the first widely separated from each 

 other by contact of pregeneials and symphyseal ; pregeneials longer than 

 broad, postgeneials minute. 



Length 7 in. 7 lin. ; of tail 1 in. 1 1. 



Color brown, end of muzzle yellow, lower surfaces and occipital region 

 pale. Sides and top of head and three longitudinal bands blackish ; the latter 

 extend on the common line of the third and fourth, and on the vertebral series 

 of scales. 



Allied to the T. planiceps Blainville. 



Museum Smithsonian, No. 6600; sent in a valuable collection from Guada- 

 laxara, Mexico, by I. I. Major. 



Typhlops basimaculatus sp. nov. 



Preocular plate present, single, a little wider than ocular ; nostril situate on 

 a suture which extends to the rostral. Rostral narrow, not angulated nor pro- 

 minent. Eye invisible, ocular plate extending to labials. Scales in eighteen 

 longitudinal rows. Superior labials four. Body compressed behind, tail 

 narrowed, obtuse, three-fourths transverse diameter of former. Head depressed, 

 mu/zle from above rounded truncate. 



Color yellow, scales of seven dorsal rows with a large brown spot at base, 

 which is visible through superjacent scales ; pattern resulting, reticulate. 

 Top of head and end of tail immaculate. ^ 



Tot;il length 12 in. 3 1. ; vertical diameter at posterior third, 3 lin. 



Hahiiaf.- Cordova, and Orizaba, Mexico. Prof. Sumichrast says, it exca- 

 vates galleries in the earth ; is found more rarelv under stones. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



This species is nearest the T. coecatus Jan., which is found on the Gold 

 Coast, West Africa. 



Museum Smithsonian, No. 6602. 



SAURIA. 

 Plistodon sumichrasti sp. nov. 



No fieno-nasal plate ; scales of body in twenty-eight longitudinal rows, the 

 laterals not oblique. Inner posterior toe shorter than the fourth. The limbs 

 being extended, the anterior digits reach the base of the external posterior. 

 Two extended transverse plates behind each parietal ; exterior to the latter 

 a large oblique temporal separated from labials by a trapezoid plate. Superior 

 labials nine, eight much largest. Auricular meatus two-thirds eye slit. Four 

 supraorbitals. Interparietal narrower than frontal, shorter than from ante- 

 rior angle, latter to end muzzle acuminate anteriorly ; frontonasals longitudi- 

 nal, largely in contact, internasal transverse, well separated from rostral by 

 supranasals. Prefrenal higher than long. 



Grayish olive with an indistinct blackish band on each side commencing at 

 the ear ; tcp of head light yellowish brown ; below pale. End of muzzle to 

 vent 3 in. 7 lin. ; to fore arm 1 in. 3 1. ; length posterior limb 18-5 lines. 



This species is allied to the P. marginatus Hallow., of Japan, and the 

 P. fasciatus of the United States. It is the second species now known in 

 Mexico ; the other, P. lynxe Weigmann, is smaller, and in form and color 

 like a Mabuia. 



Museum Smithsonian, No. 6601. Orizava, F. Sumichrast. 



Diploglos?us chalybaeus sp. nov. 



Thirty four rows of scales on the body, those of the body rectangularly 

 arranged, sixteen near the base of the tail ; those of the tail with sixteen 

 striae, the median of which is raised so as to give an angulated appearance. 

 Scales of the posterior part of the body with eight and nine striae, those of the 

 anterior regions smooth. Internasal broader than long, angulation front; 

 frontal truncate anteriorly, convex and broader posteriorly ; frontoparietals 

 small, separated by their width. Interparietal nearly or quite as large as 

 parietal, succeeded by a median plate. Five supraorbitals, marginals § 3 ; 

 frenal and prefrenal touching ; or frenonasal above postnasal. Limbs ex- 

 tended along the sides, separated by the length of the hind limb. 



Length of larger specimens from end of muzzle to vent 3 5 in. ; do. smaller 

 specimen 2-5 in. ; vent to end of tail of same 3*5 in. 



Sides of head and body with limbs, black ; sides of head and neck with some 

 small greenish spots. Dorsal region for a width of seven and two half rows of 

 scales olive brown, the edges of each row blackish and forming narrow imper- 

 fect lines ; top of head spotless ; below pale greenish. 



Habitat. — Mountains of Orizava,' Vera Cruz, at an elevation of from 4000 to 

 6000 feet ; Prof. F. Sumichrast, Museum Smithsonian, No. 6603. 



Gerrhonotus o p h i u r u s sp. nov. 



This species belongs to the subtype of the genus represented by G. te s s e 1- 

 1 a t u s, but differs from the latter in the much longer tail and shorter limbs, 

 and different arrangement of plates on the head, viz. : 



Group I. Three pairs of supranasals, with azygus plate between first pair; 

 scales 16. 



One preocular, two loreals, posterior canthal descending to 

 labials. Legs separated by length of hind leg. Belly im- 

 maculate ; tail shorter ventralis. 



Two praeoculars, two loreals, posterior canthal descending to 

 labials. Tail moderate ; extended legs separated by length 

 of fore arm ; brown above with ten cross bands ; belly black 

 spotted — , tessellatus. 



18b6.] 21 




J)22 rnocEEDiNGS of the academy op 



Two priBOOulars, three lorenls, not separated hy the single pos- 

 terior canthal ; prenasal in contact witli first labial. Tail 

 2*7r) times head and body ; extended limbs separated by 

 length of humerus ; red with ten light cross bands, v-shaped 

 backwards ; belly not black spotted ophiuruB. 



Three loreals, posterior canthal divided, each half correspond- 

 ing to a loreal ; prenasal separated from contact with first 

 labial ; tail twice head and body. Light olive with seven or 

 eight dark cross bars ; below yellowish marbled with olive., infernalis. 



The first species is Pterogasterus ventralis Peale and Green, Journal Acade- 

 my, vi. 233. 



The G. o p h 1 u r u s is 13 inches in length. 

 Habitat, — Orizava, Mexico, Prof. F. Sumichrast. 



Xenosaurus grand is Gray, Cubina c/randis GrsLy, Ann. Magaz. Nat. Hist, 

 xviii. 270. Xenosaurus fascia tus Peters, Monatsberichte Berlin Acad. 



The genus Xenosaurus, first defined by the able Zoologist of the University 

 of Berlin, is of much interest. Prof. Peters referred it with doubt to tlie Helo- 

 dermidae, and in my system of the Sauria,''^ I have followed his suggestion, not 

 having had the opportunity of studying its skeleton. This having been 

 afforded by the specimens sent to the Smithsonian Institution by F. Sumichrast, 

 my conclusion regarding it is as follows : It is a Diplogloss iu all points, pre- 

 senting the anomaly of very strong inferior frontal crests, which fail of under- 

 arching the olfactory lobes of the brain, approaching in this respect equally 

 the Gecconidse and Varanidse. The anterior limb of the mesosternum is shorter 

 than in most of the Diploglossa. Parietal fontanelle distinct. The Xeno- 

 sauridse will stand in the system between the Gerrhonotidse and Helodermidse 

 ■with the following diagnosis : 



No premaxillary foramen, dentition strictly pleurodont, teeth with elongate 

 cylindrical shanks attached on inside of alveolar parapet ; head tubercularly 

 scaled, temporal fossa not over-roofed by dermossification ; mesosternum cruci' 

 form. 



While the characters of the Helodermidse are : 



No premaxillary foramen ; teeth with short dilated bases, obliquely anchylosed ; 

 head tubercularly scaled, temporal fossa overarched by dermoossifcation ; mesos- 

 ternum without lateral limbs, longiiudinaL 



The supraorbital ossification in Xenosaurus is a triangular piece over the 

 anterior third of the orbit, attached to the prefrontal bone, not as in the other 

 Diploglossa, continued to the postfi ontal. The ball of the eye is defined by 

 fourteen flexible sclerotic plates in front, whose contact is valvate except round 

 the pupil, where each one dilates and overlaps the next, forming an imbricate 

 circle. 



Sceloporus heterurus sp. nov. 



Four and five rows of supraorbitals besides the internal and external margi- 

 nals. But little difference in size of dorsal, lateral and abdominal scales, the 

 first with strong keel and mucro, not serrate, in 45 transverse rows between 

 interscapular and sacral regions. Caudal scales much larger, with elevated 

 keels continued as ridges, in eighteen longitudinal rows 8 lines beyond vent. 

 Head scales smooth, the anterior frontal not divided ; occipitals distinct. Some 

 large marginal scales in front of auricular meatus. Femoral pores seventeen. 



Color bright leek green with numerous delicate brown lines directed 

 obliquely forward towards the back and there turning backwards ; a narrow 

 line ascending from arm to interscapular region receives a longitudinal one 

 from orbit; a longitudinal line in front of thigh. 



Total length 6 in.; from muzzle to vent 2 in. 6 1. 



* Proceedings Academy, 1864, 228. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 823 



Museum Smithsonian, No. 6589. Received from Mirador, near Vera Cruz, 

 from Dr. Charles Sartorius. 



This species is near the Sc. gr a m m i c u s Wiegmann, Herpetologia M e x 1- 

 c a n a , the type of which I consider to be sp. No. 641, Mus. Berolinense. In 

 it there are but 38 rows of dorsal scales, three rows of supraorbitals, and no 

 auricular marginal series. 



BATRACHIA. 



Lithodytes rliodopis sp. nov. 



Near the L. g r i s e u s (Hallow.) of the same region, but of a more elongate 

 form ; Ihe head narrower with smaller orbits and larger membranumtympani ; 

 toes more elongate, and with smaller dilatations ; there are peculiar dorsal 

 folds ; the groin and femur are also not marbled as in the L. g r i s e u s. 



Greatest breadth cranium one and two-fifth times between tympanum and 

 end coccyx, equal between former and end of muzzle. Diameter of orbit equal 

 from same to exterior nares, 1-5 times to equal longest or vertical diameter 

 of tympanum (2 to 2'5 inL. griseus;) largest in young individuals. Vo- 

 merine series transverse, posterior well separated, not extending outside of 

 line of interior margin of nares. Canthus rostralis well marked. A plica from 

 posterior angle of eye extends to the anterior dorsal region nearly meeting its 

 fellow ; nearly opposite their termini a dorso lateral fold originates and passes 

 to the line of the ilia ; a third extends from over tympanum to near groin : 

 generally minutely rugose above. Heel to considerably beyond muzzle. 

 Sole and fourth digit, 1*3 to 1*5 width of cranium ; metatarsals with series of 

 small tubercles, and with a distinct inner cuneiform process ; a slight web be- 

 tween proximal phalanges. Anterior digits without dilatations. End of fore- 

 arm to end of muzzle. End muzzle to end coccyx 1 in. 7 lin. Same to pos- 

 terior margin tympanum 7*5 lines. Hinder limb from end ilium to heel 1 in. 

 7*5 lin., foot 1 in. 4 lin. 



Above dark gray, shaded with pink ; a darker pale edged bar between ocu- 

 lar fissures, a longitudinal blotch of the same on top of muzzle ; back with in- 

 distinct darker markings. Side of muzzle and head in spots on labial mar- 

 gin and cross-bands on limbs with sole of whole foot darker ; a decurved 

 black line from nostril over tympanum above humerus. Concealed faces of 

 limbs and margin of mandible brown punctulate ; below generally yellowish 

 white. In another specimen there is no interorbital cross-bands, but two 

 longitudinal stripes from muzzle to nape, and two from orbits converging on 

 coccyx, and embracing a dark shade. Young, clay color with pink shades to 

 rose color. 



Habitat. — Vera Cruz, at Orizava and Cordova. Prof. Sumichrast's Collec- 

 tion. 



Ont lie Agricultural Ant of Texas. (MYRMICA MOLEFACIENS.) 

 BY GIDEON LINCECUM. 



This is No. 2 of my catalogue — is inodorous, having no smell of formic acid. 

 It is a large reddish brown ant, dwells in the ground, is a farmer, lives in 

 communities, which are often very populous, and controlled by a perfect 

 government ; there are no idlers amongst them. They build paved cities, con- 

 struct roads, and sustain a large military force. 



When one of the young queens, or mother ants, comes to maturity, and ha? 

 received the embraces of the male ant, who immediately dies, she goes out 

 alone, selects a location and goes rapidly to work excavating a hole in the 

 ground, digging and carrying out the dirt with her mouth. As soon as she 

 has progressed far enough for her wings to strike against the sides of the hole, 

 she deliberately cuts them off. She now, without further obstruction, con- 

 tinues to deepen the hole to the depth of 6 or V inches, when she widens the 



1866.] 




324 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



bottom of it into a suitable cell for depositing her egga and nurturing the 

 young. iShe continues to labor out-doors and in, until she lias raised to ma- 

 turity 20 to 30 workers, when her labor ceases, and she remains in the cells, 

 supplying the eggs for coming millions, and lier kingdom has commenced. 

 But very few of the thousands of mother ants that swarm out from the differ- 

 ent kingdoms two or three times a year succeed in establishing a city. How- 

 ever, when one does succeed in rearing a sufficient number of workers to carry 

 on tlie business, she entrusts the management of the national works to them, 

 and is seen no more outside. 



The workers all seem to understand the duties assigned to them, and will 

 perform them or die in the effort. 



The workers increase the concealment, which had been kept up by the 

 mother ant during the period of her personal labors, of the passage, or gate- 

 way to their city, by dragging up and covering it with bits of stick, straw and 

 the hard black pellets of earth, which are thrown up by the earth worms, un- 

 til there is no way visible for them to enter ; and the little litter is so ingeni- 

 ously placed, that it has more the appearance of having been drifted together 

 by the wind than to have been the work of design. 



In about a year and a half, when the numbers of the community have greatly 

 increased, and they feel able to sustain themselves among the surrounding 

 nations, they throw off their concealment, clear away the grass, herbage and 

 other litter to the distance of 3 or 4 feet around the entrance to their city, 

 construct a pavement, organize an efficient police, and, thus established, 

 proclaim themselves an independent city. The pavement, which is always 

 kept very clean, consists of a pretty hard crust about half an inch thick, and 

 is formed by selecting and laying such grits and particles of sand as will fit 

 closely over the entire surface. This is the case in sandy soil, where they can 

 procure coarse sand and grit for the purpose, but in the black prairie soil, 

 where there is no sand, they construct the pavement by levelling and smoothing 

 the surface and suffering it to bake in the sunshine, when it becomes very 

 hard and firm. That both forms of these pavements are the work of a well 

 planned design, there can bQ no doubt with the careful investigator. All the 

 communities of this species select their homes in the open sunshine, and con- 

 struct pavements. Their pavements are always circular and constructed pretty 

 much on the same plan. During the ten years drouth that prevailed here, and 

 which seemed very favorable to the increase of this species of ant, they suf- 

 fered their pavements to remain flat, sometimes even basin-form. But the 

 drouth could not continue always. The rain, which would be certain to drown 

 the ants should it come upon their flat and basin-form pavements, w^ould re- 

 turn again some day, and they seemed to know when this much dreaded event 

 would occur. At least six months previous to the coming of the rain, they 

 commenced, universally, building up mounds in the center of the pavements. 

 To these mounds in the prairie they brought the little pellets of earth, thrown 

 to the surface by the earth worms, and piled them up into a circular mound a 

 foot or more in height. In sandy soil it is constructed of coarse sand, and in 

 rocky situations they build it of gravel, and the pieces are so large, and the 

 .mound so high (18 inches to 2 feet, with a four feet base) that the beholder is 

 overwhelmed with wonder. I know of one of these stone pyramids nearly 3 

 feet high and 5^ to 6 feet base, in which there are many little fragments of stone, 

 some of them carried to the very top, any one of which would weigh more 

 than 26 ants. Internally the ant mound contains many neatly constructed 

 cells, the fl.oors of which are horizontal ; and into these cells the eggs, young 

 ones, and their stores of grain are carried in time of rainy seasons. 



The mound itself, and the surface of the ground around it, to the distance 



of four or five feet, sometimes more, from the center, is kept very clean, like a 



pavement. Everything that happens to be dropped upon the pavement is cut 



, to pieces and carried away. The largest dropping from the cows will, in a 



; short time,;. b€xemoved. I have placed a large corn-stalk on the pavement, 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 825 



and in the course of two or three days found it hollowed out to a mere shell \ 

 that too, in a short time, would be cut to pieces and carried off. Not a green 

 thing is suffered to grow on the pavement, with the exception of a single spe- 

 cies of grain-bearing grass, (Aristida stricta.) This the ant nurses and culti- 

 vates with great care ; having it in a circle around and two or three feet from the 

 center of the mound. It also clears away the weeds and* other grasses all 

 around outside of the circular row of Aristida, to the distance of one or two 

 feet. The cultivated grass flourishes luxuriantly, producing a heavy crop of 

 small, white, flinty grains, which, under the microscope, have the appearance 

 of the rice of commerce. When it is ripe it is harvested by the workers, and 

 carried, chaff and all, into the granary cells, where it is divested of the chaff, 

 which is immediately taken out and thrown beyond the limits of the pave- 

 ment alwa} s to the lee side. The clean grain is carefully stored away in dry 

 cells. These cells are so constructed that water cannot reach them, except in 

 long wet spells, when the earth becomes thoroughly saturated, and dissolves the 

 cement with which the granary cells are made tight. This is a great calami- 

 ty, and if rain continues a few days it will drown out the entire com- 

 munity. In cases, however, where it has continued long enough only to 

 wet and swell their grain, as soon as a sunny day occurs they take it all out, 

 and spreading it in a clean place, after it has sunned a day or two, or is fully 

 dry, they take it in again, except the grains that are sprouted ; these they in- 

 variably leave out. I have seen at least a quart of sprouted seeds left out at 

 one place. 



They also collect the grain from several other species of grass, as well as 

 seed from many kinds of herbaceous plants. They like almost any kind of 

 seeds — red pepper seeds seem to be a favorite with them. 



In a barren rocky place in a wheat field, a few days after harvest, I saw quite 

 a number of wheat grains scattered over the pavement of an ant city, and the 

 h%borers Avere still bringing it out. I found the wheat quite sound, but a little 

 swelled. In the evening of the same day I passed there again ; the wheat had 

 dried, and they were busily engaged carrying it in again. 



The species of grass they so carefully cultivate is a biennial. They sow it 

 in time for the autumnal rains to bring it up. Accordingly, about the first of 

 November, if the fall has been seasonable, a beautiful green row of the ant rice, 

 about 4 inches wide, is seen springing up on the pavement, in a circle of 14 to 

 15 feet in circumference. In the vicinity of this circular row of grass they 

 do not permit a single spire of any other grass or weed to remain a day ; leav- 

 ing the Aristida untouched until it is ripe, which occurs in June of the next 

 year they gather the seeds and carry them into the granaries as before stated. 

 There can be no doubt of the fact that this peculiar species of grass is in- 

 tentionally planted, and, in farmer-like manner, carefully divested of all other 

 grasses and weeds during the time of its growth, and that after it has matured, 

 and the grain stored away, they cut away the dry stubble and remove it from 

 the pavement, leaving it unencumbered until the ensuing autumn, when the 

 same species of grass, and in the same circle, appears again, receiving the 

 same agricultural care as did the previous crop ; and so on, year after year, as 

 I know to be the case on farms where there habitations are, during the sum- 

 mer season, protected from the depredations of cattle. Outside of the fields 

 they sow the grass seeds, but the cows crop it down two or three times, when, 

 finding that there is no chance to carry on their agricultural pursuits, they cut 

 it all away and re-establish the clean pavement. Our cattle did not often crop 

 the ant rice until their increased numbers have forced them to feed on all 

 kinds of grass. That, however, has turned out favorably to the ant interest. 

 For, while the prairies are being denuded of the stronger grasses, we have a 

 delicate little biennial barley (Hordium pusillum) that is filling all the naked 

 places. It rises from 3 to 6 inches, producing fine grain for ant consumption. 

 It matures about the last days of April, and from that time all the agricultural 

 ants are seen packing it home daily through the summer. This species of ant 

 1866.] 




826 PROOEEDINaS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



subsists entirely on vegetable seeds. I have sometimes seen them draj^ a cat- 

 terpillar or a crippled grasshopper into their hole, that had been thrown iipon 

 tlie pavement, but I have never observed them carrying any such things home 

 that they had captured themselves. I do not think they eat much animal 

 food. 



I have often seen them have prisoners, always of their own species. I could 

 not discover the nature of the offence that led to the arrestment ; still I have 

 no doubt as to the fact of its being so, and that the prisoner is very roughly 

 forced along contrary to its inclination. There is never more than a single 

 guard having charge of a prisoner, who by some means having obtained the 

 advantage, and attacking from behind, had succeeded in seizing it with the 

 mandibles over the smallest part of its back, and so long as it maintains this 

 grip, it is out of the reach of harm from the prisoner. 



In some cases the prisoner quietly submits, and folding up its legs, forces 

 the captor to carry it along like a dead ant, as I thought it really was, 

 until I caused its captor to drop it ; when, to my surprise, it immediately 

 sprang to its feet, and, running wildlj^ succeeded in making its escape. It oc- 

 curs more frequently, however, that the prisoner does not give up so tamely, 

 but continues to make every effort to rid itself of its detainer. I have many 

 times observed the prisoner manifesting all the indications of terror and great 

 reluctance at being so unceremoniously dragged along. It will lay hold of 

 and cling to everything that comes in reach, and by this means greatly 

 retard the progress of its captor. When at last they arrive on the city pave- 

 ment, half a dozen or more of the national guard, who, are always on duty, 

 rush upon the prisoner, aiding the seemingly fatigued captor, who still main- 

 tains its potent grip upon the now almost helpless prisoner, seize it by the 

 arms, legs, everywhere, and in a very rough manner hurry it down into the 

 entrance to the city, and out of the reach of further observation. 



The agricultural ant is very tenacious of life. I dissevered the head of one 

 at 4 P. M. on Sunday, and the head remained alive, retaining sufficient strength by 

 pressing with its antennae against the slip of glass upon which it lay to move 

 itself and change its position, until 10 A. M. the next day. 



It seems to be an established law amongst all species of ants, and particu- 

 larly with the species in question, that when any disaster occurs to their city, 

 the first thing to be done is to take care of the young, and, if possible, secure 

 their safety ; and so, when by any accident one of their cities gets torn up, it 

 will be seen that they universally rush to the nursery apartment; and every 

 one that can, takes up an egg, the pupae, the young in any stage of advance- 

 ment, and will save its life or lose its own. As far as I can understand and 

 read their actions, every one understands its duty, and will do it or lose its 

 life. I have observed the guards, when a sudden shower of rain would come 

 up, run to the entrance of the city, and there meeting with another party 

 coming up from below, would crowd themselves together in the hole in such 

 manner as to form a complete obstruction to the ingress of the water, and 

 there remain overwhelmed with the accumulating rain until it ceased. If the 

 shower continues over fifteen minutes, they are found to be still closely wedged 

 in the aperture and all dead ; and there they remain until the balance of the 

 pavement guards, who during the shower had climbed some weed or blade of 

 grass that grew near the border of the pavement, come down, and with some 

 difficulty succeed in taking them out. They are immediately taken to some 

 dry place on the pavement and exposed to the open air half an hour at least ; 

 after which, if they do not revive, they are taken off from the pavement, some- 

 times to the distance of sixty yards, and left on the ground without further 

 care. 



Long-continued rainy seasons, by deeply saturating the earth, will dissolve 

 the cement of their cells, flood them, and drown the ants out entirely. I have 

 allusion now only to the agricultural species of the genus. The first year after 

 my arrival in Texas, I noticed that there were a great many uninhabited ant 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 327 



hills, with pavements still smooth and nude of grass or weeds, indicating that 

 they had been very recently occupied. The missing communities were all dead 

 — extinct — had been destroyed by a series of rainy seasons. Then, there were 

 but few of these ant cities to be found that were occupied. But when the 

 drouth set in, the earth being no longer filled with water, they began to multi- 

 ply very rapidly. City after city appeared as the dry weather continued, and 

 now, 1863, at the close of a ten years' drouth, they have spread so extensively, 

 that their clean little paved cities are to be seen every fifty or sixty yards, espe- 

 cially along the roadsides, in the prairies, walks in yards and fields, barren 

 rocky places, &c. In beds of heavy grass, or weeds, or in deep shady wood- 

 lands, they very seldom locate a city. They prefer sunshine and a clear sky. 

 This ant does not work in the heat of the day during hot weather, but makes 

 up the lost time during the night. I have often found them busily engaged at 

 2 and even 3 o'clock, A. M. Before day, however, they call off the workers, 

 and rest till about sunrise. In more favorable weather, when they can operate 

 all day, they do not work late at night. 



In regard to courage, there can be no mistake in stating, that when the 

 interests of the nation are involved, this ant exhibits no signs of fear or dread 

 of any consequences that may result to self, while engaged in the discharge of 

 its duties. 



The police or national guards of a community which has been established 

 three or four years, number in the aggregate, of the parties on duty, from one 

 to two hundred. These are seen all the time, in suitable weather, unceasingly 

 promenading the environs of the city. If an observer takes his stand near the 

 edge of the pavement, he will discover an instantaneous movement in the en- 

 tire police corps, coming wave-like towards him. If the observer imprudently 

 keeps his position, he will soon see numbers of them at his feet, and without 

 the slightest degree of precaution, or the least hesitation, they climb up his 

 boots, on his clothes, and as soon as they come to anything that they can bite 

 or sting, whether it be boot, or cloth, or skin, they go right to work biting 

 and stinging ; and very often, if they get good hold on any soft texture, they 

 will suffer themselves to be torn to pieces before they will relinquish it. If 

 they succeed in getting to the bare skin, they inflict a painful wound, the irri- 

 tation, swelling and soreness of which will not subside in twenty-four hours. 



If any worm or small bug shall attempt to travel across their pavement, it 

 is immediately arrested, and soon covered with the fearless warriors, who in a 

 short time deprive it of life. Woe unto any luckless wight of a tumble-bug who 

 may attempt to roll his spherical treasure upon that sacred and forbidden 

 pav6ment. As soon as the dark, execrable globe of unholy material is discov- 

 ered by the police to be rolling on, and contaminating the interdicted grounds, 

 they rush with one accord upon the vile intruder, and instantly seizing him by 

 every leg and foot, dispatch him in a short time. Sometimes the tumble-bug 

 takes the alarm at the start, while only two or three of the ants have hold on 

 it, expands its wings and flies off with them hanging to its legs. If it fails 

 to make this early effort, it very soon falls a victim to the exasperated soldiery. 

 The ball of filth is left on the pavement, sometimes in the very entrance to the 

 city. In due time the workers take possession of it, cut it into fragments, and 

 pack it off" beyond the limits of the incorporated grounds. 



I have not observed that anytliing preys to any considerable extent upon 

 this species of ant. Chickens and mocking birds will sometimes pick up a few 

 of them, but not often. If anything else in Texas eats them, I have not noticed 

 it. Neither have I observed their nests bored into or dug up in middle Texas. 



The agricultural ant is of but little disadvantage to the farmer, however nu- 

 merous, as it is never seen six inches from the ground, nor does it cut or 

 trouble any growing vegetable outside of its pavement, except the seeds of the 

 noxious weeds and grasses. Sometimes it is found stealing corn meal, broom- 

 corn seeds, &c.; but it is only when it finds them on the ground that it steals 

 even these. 



1866.] 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Or 



riiildrcn occasionivlly jjct on their pavement, and arc badly atnnp. A few of 

 those pavement lesst)n8, however, {generally obviate that inconvenienee. The 

 pain of their poison is more histing, will swell and feel harder, than that of the 

 honey bee. If they insert their stinjrs on the feet or ankles of the child, the 

 irritation will ascend to the glands of the ingninal region, producing tnmours 

 of a character qnite painful, often exciting considerable fever in the general 

 aj'stem ; the irritation will last a day or two, but I have seen no permanent 

 injury arising from it. 



During protracted spells of dry weather, they are frequently found in great 

 numbers in our wells. They seem to have gone there in pursuit of water, and 

 not being able to get back, to make the best of a bad condition — in this unfore- 

 seen dilemma — they will collect and cling together in masses as large as an 

 ordinary teacup, in which condition they are frequently caught and drawn up 

 in the bucket. When they are thus brought up, though they may have been 

 in the water a day or more, they are ail living, though half drowned and barely 

 able to move. While in the well they are all afloat, and at least one-half the 

 mass submerged. As it is known that this species of ant cannot survive 15 

 minutes under water, how they manage Avhen in a large half-sunken mass to 

 survive a day, or even longer, is a question to which I may fail to give a 

 satisfactory solution. I may, how^ever, from experiments I have made 

 with single individuals, in water, venture the assertion that there is no pos- 

 sible chance for the submerged portion of the globular mass, if it remain in 

 the same condition in relation to the water, to survive even half an hour. 

 Then we are forced to the supposition that by some means or other the ball 

 must be caused to revolve as it floats. The globular mass must be kept roll- 

 ing, and make a revolution every four minutes^ or the submerged portion must 

 die. To accomplish this somewhat astonishing life-preserving process, there 

 is but one possible alternative. It can be etfected only by a united and 

 ])roperly directed systematic motion of the disengaged limbs of the outer tier 

 of ants, occupying the submerged half of the globular mass. 



I saw to-day (June 15), in a clean-trodden path near my dwelling, quite a 

 number of this species of ant engaged in deadly conflict. They were strewed 

 along the path to the distance of 10 or 12 feet, fighting, most of them, in sin- 

 gle combat. In some few cases, I noticed there would be two to one engaged, 

 in all of which cases the struggle was soon ended. Their mode of warfare is 

 decapitation, and in all cases where there were two to one engaged the work 

 of cutting off the head was soon accomplished. There were already a num- 

 ber of heads and headless ants laying around, and there was a greater number 

 of single pairs of the insatiate w^arriors grappling each other by the throat on 

 the battle-field, some of whom seemed to be already dead, still clinging to- 

 gether by their throats. Among the single pairs in the deadly strife there 

 were no cases of decapitation. They mutually grapple each other by the throat, 

 and there cling until death ends the conflict, but does not separate them. I do 

 not think that in single combat they possess the power to dissever the head ; but 

 they can grip the neck so firmly as to stop circulation, and hold on until death 

 ensues without their vinlocking the jaws even then. 



The cause of this war was attributable to the settlement of a young queen 

 in close proximity (not more than 20 feet) of a very populous community that 

 had occupied that scope of territory for ten or twelve years. At first, and so 

 long as they operated under concealment, the old community did not molest 

 them ; but when they threw off their mask, and commenced paving their city, 

 the older occupants of that district of territory declared war against them and 

 waged it to extermination. The war was declared by the old settlers, and the 

 object was to drive out the new ones or exterminate them. But the warriors 

 of this species of ant are not to be driven. Where they select a location for a 

 home, nothing but annihilation can get them away. So, in the present case, 

 the war continued two days and nights, and resulted in the total extermina- 

 tion of the intruding colony. From the vastly superior numbers of the older 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 329 



settlers, though many of them were slain during the war, they nevertheless 

 succeeded in destroying the entire colony, without any apparent disturbance 

 or unusual excitement about the great city. Their national works and govern- 

 mental affairs went on in their ordinary course, while the work of death was 

 being accomplished by their resolute bands of triumphant warriors. 



They do not interrupt, in any way that I have discovered, the small black 

 erratic ant, when it comes on their pavement. They even permit the erratic 

 ants to erect cities on any portion of the incorporated limits, and do not mo- 

 lest them. It may be that the little fellows serve them some purpose. But 

 when they build too many of their confederate cities on the pavement of the 

 agricultural ant, it seems to be an inconvenience to them some way, but they 

 do not go to war with them, nor attempt to rid themselves of the inconveni- 

 ence by any forcible means. They, however, do get clear of them, and that by 

 instituting a regular system of deceptive and vexatious obstructions. The 

 deception is manifested in the fact that' it appears to have suddenly become 

 necessary to raise the mound two or three inches higher, and also to widen the 

 base considerably. Forthwith are seen swarming out upon the pavement hosts 

 of ants, who go rapidly to work, and bringing the little black balls 

 which are thrown up by the earthworms in great quantities everywhere in the 

 prairie soil, they heap them up, first at the base of the mound, widening till all 

 the near erratic ant cities are covered up. At the same time, they raise the 

 entire pavement an inch or so, and in prosecuting this part of the national 

 work deposit abundantly more balls upon and around the erratic ant cities 

 than anywhere else. The little ahts bore upAvards through the hard sun-dried 

 balls, which are constantly accumulating — getting worse every hour — until 

 the obstruction has become so great that they can no longer keep their cities 

 open ; and, finding that there is no remedy for the growing difficulty, they 

 peaceably evacuate the premises. There is found on almost every pavement, 

 at this season of the year, three or four small pyramidal mounds, that have 

 been constructed for the purpose of crowding out the little erratic ants. 



The extensive, clean, smooth roads that are constructed by the agricultural 

 ants are worthy of being noticed. At this season of the year their roads are 

 plainest and in the best order, because it is harvest time, and their whole force 

 is out collecting grain for winter supplies. 



I am just this moment in from a survey of one of these roads, that I might 

 be able to make an exact and correct sj;atement of it. It is over a hundred 

 yards in length, goes through twenty yards of thick weeds, underruns heavy 

 beds of crop grass 60 yards, and then through the weeds growing in the locks 

 of a heavy rail fence 20 yards more ; and throughout the whole extent it is very 

 smooth and even, varying from a straight line enough, perhaps, to lose 10 or 

 12 yards of the distance in travelling to the outer terminus. It is from 2 to 2 J 

 inches wide ; in some places, on account of insurmountable obstructions, it 

 ■Separates into two or three trails of an inch in width, coming together again 

 after passing the obstruction. This is the main trunk, and it does not branch 

 until it crosses the before-named fence, beyond which is a heavy bed of grain 

 bearing weeds and grass. Their prospecting corps travel far- out, and when 

 they discover rich districts of their proper food they report it, and a corps of 

 foragers are immediately dispatched to collect and bring it in. 



21th June^ 1863. — My son. Dr. Leonidas, called my attention to an assem- 

 blage of the males and females of the agricultural ants (Myrmica raolefaciens) 

 which took place about 2 P. M., and continued in session until 4 P. M. They 

 were all winged ants, and there were many thousands, perhaps millions, of 

 them, thickly covering the ground over an area of 10*7 yards in length and 10 

 wide. They came from all directions, and were evidently the production of 

 many kingdoms of this wonderful species of ant. There must have been, at 

 least, five males to one female, and all parties were rushing hither and thither 

 over the entire area, described above, in a frantic, amative furor. Each female 

 would be found covered and wallowing on the ground with clusters of from 



1866.] 




330 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



four or tivc to twenty luiilcs; and there were hundreds tliickly rushing ovrr 

 the tcround in search of I'eniales that were not to he found. The air was full 

 of them Hying around, going oH* and returning; some of them, perhaps, just 

 arriving. 



When a female became satisfied with her numerous lovers, by a great and 

 violent effort she made shift to extricate herself from their rude embrace and 

 immediately fly away. After 4 1'. M. they began rapidly to fly away, and in the 

 course of an hour they were all gone, leaving their disconsolate, exhausted 

 lovers, who made no ctibrt to follow. Many of the males were already dead, 

 and a still greater number lay helpless on the ground ; but there were hundreds 

 of thousands who were still active, and they collected together in the horse- 

 tracks, cracks in the ground, and other places sheltered from the south wind, 

 which prevails at that season of the year, and becoming perfectly quiet, were, 

 at 6 P. M., lying still in heaps of from half a pint to a quart, sometimes more. 

 At this hour I examined the entire field, and there must have been very near, 

 if not quite, a bushel of the exhausted and dying male ants. 



A strong south wind was blowing during the time the females were flying off, 

 and the larger portion of them were drifted by the wind into the timbered lands 

 to the north ; many of them, however, succeeded in forcing their way a few 

 hundred yards against the wind, and alighting, which seemed to be the effect of 

 fatigue more than desire, they immediately, by writhing and doubling them- 

 selves in various ways, cast off their wings, which were no longer necessary, 

 and running rapidly till they found a little clean spot of earth, went hurriedly to 

 work digging holes in the ground, which they accomplished with apparent ease 

 and considerable facility. They dig and bring out the dirt in considerable pel- 

 lets with their large caliper-like mandibles, carrying it not exceeding two inches 

 and dropping it in a circle around the hole they are making ; very soon they had 

 buried themselves out of sight. Two hours after they had commenced flying 

 away from their lovers, hundreds of holes, with a little circle of black dirt 

 around them, might be seen. In every clean-trodden piece of ground, and in 

 the roads and paths, these new tenements were thickly set long before sun- 

 down. 



Only one of these mother ants is necessary to start a kingdom. I saw no 

 instance where two of them were at work at the same hole. In some favorable 

 spot of ground there would be found a great many of them at work excavating 

 their holes, sometimes within a foot of each other. None seemed to know that 

 any other ant was near. While one was out with a load of dirt, I placed a stick 

 in her hole ; returning, she did not know the place, and in searching around 

 soon found another one's hole, into which she immediately plunged. Very soon 

 the owner of the establishment pushed the intruder out, who made battle as 

 soon as they were fairly out on level ground. The conflict soon became despe- 

 rate, and after they had fought for the space of a minute or two the intruder 

 seemed to give way, and, extricating herself from her highly incensed antagonist, 

 plunged into the hole again ; the owner followed, and after some time succeed- 

 ed in dragging the invader out once more, and also, after a dire conflict, in put- 

 ting her to flight. The victor went to work again, but in the fight she had been 

 injured, as I noticed every time she came out with a load of dirt she would stop 

 awhile, and with one of her feet riib and fix something about her mouth. She 

 seemea to be in pain, and did not work so vigorously as before the fight. 



It wou d not do for many of these new queens to prove successful in building 

 up kingd( ms. There is some antagonistic action to prevent it. The male and 

 female crngress, I have attempted to describe above, happens two or three times 

 every year, and should all the queens succeed in establishing colonies, they 

 would in a very few years occupy the entire surface of the earth. 



This species of ant — and I think it obtains with the whole genus, like the hor- 

 net, wagp, yellow jacket, &c.--do not go off from the old hive in swarms like the 

 bee, but a single mother ant, after congress with the males, goes off alone and 

 sets up for herself. She works very busily until she has raised 20 or 30 neuters 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



to work for her, when she ceases to labor, and, remaining in-doors, lay^ all the 

 eggs that produce the coming millions. The laborers are long-lived, so are the 

 queens. 



28<A. — I extract from my journal : This morning I found the males where I 

 left them last evening. The greater portion of them were still active, and 

 seemed to be quite careless as to their fate. Hundreds were dead or dying. 

 Grreat numbers had climbed up the little weeds, many of whom were dead, but 

 still clinging by their jaws, which were fast gripped to some little leaf or twig. 

 The females had buried themselves by the time it was dark last night, and, 

 closing up their holes, remained shut in all night. But few of them had opened 

 their doors and gone to work at an hour by sun this morning. The number of 

 their holes is truly wonderful. I saw many places where there were at least 

 fifty of their holes to the square rod, and northwardly they extended for miles. 

 When these mother ants succeed in boring their holes to the depth of six or 

 seven inches they close them up, and employ themselves widening the bottom 

 of them a little, forming small cells for the purpose, as I suppose, of making 

 room for the deposition of their eggs. They do not, as I can discover, need 

 any food yet. At 5 P. M. of this day I visited the place again, and found the 

 male ants all dead. They were drifted into the gullies by the winds into 

 heaps, and thousands of them besides lay scattered over the ground. Some of 

 the females were still engaged deepening their holes, and their little piles of 

 black dirt were to be seen everywhere. 



29/A July. — A month has passed. I went round to-day and found that, in 

 all those thousands of female ants, who made so brave a start excavating new 

 homes, there was but one that was a success, and it was concealed with a little pile 

 of trash. There may be more, but I did not find them, and the winds have swept 

 away their little piles of dirt, so that there are no signs of them left. From 

 some cause they are all gone. Eight or ten days after they had shut up their 

 holes I dug up quite a number of them ; found them looking well, but they 

 had no eggs or anything else in the little cell. They seemed to be sleeping. 



I have never witnessed similar assemblages in any other species of ant, 

 though I have seen it often take place with the agricultural species. 



Long Pointy Texas, Oct., 1866. 



Descriptions of some new species of Diurnal LEPIDOPTEEA. 



Series II. 



BY TRYON REAKIRT. 



26. Neonympha lupita, nov. sp. 



Female. Upper surface uniform dull brown, with a narrow, double, darker 

 brown, marginal line. 



Underneath paler ; three narrow terminal lines on both wings, of which 

 the interior is the broadest, and most clearly defined ; a minute black ocellus 

 near the apex of the primaries, ringed with pale brown ; three transverse 

 brown stripes on the same, between the middle and base ; two extending 

 from the costa to the inner margin, while the third and central one stretches 

 over only one-third this distance. 



Secondaries with three submarginal ocelli, black, encircled with yellowish 

 brown, one near their apex, and the others close together, above the anal 

 angle ; three indistinct transverse lines above the middle, with several shorteir 

 ones towards the base. Expanse 1*25 inches. 



Body of the same dull tint ; antennje ferruginous. 



Hah. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 

 Orizaba. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



27. Papilio asterioides, nov. sp. 



Mile. Upper surface black, marked nearly as in Aster ius ; the inner yellow 



18b6.] 




882 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



maculaf row upon the foro wings is almost obsolete, except the spot upon the 

 inner margin, which is prolonged into a dash. 



Hind wings marked as in Asfcriits 9> l^ut the hlue clouds between the yel- 

 low bands are reduced to small rounded patches, insensibly diminishing to the 

 outer angle ; that upon the abdominal margin is lunulate and covers a ful- 

 vous crescent, not ocellate as in Asterius ; tail not so long as in that species ; 

 emarginations white ; expanse 3'5 — 4 inches. 



■ Below much paler ; primaries with a series of submarginal rounded yellow 

 spots, and between these and the cell another of large fulvous sagittiform 

 spots ; a minute yellow spot on the end of the cell ; one, somewhat larger, 

 above the origin of the fourth subcostal veinlet. 



Secondaries as in Ast rius, with the exception of the anal mark, which is 

 simply a lunule as on the upper surface, and of the existence of a very minute 

 fulvous spot within the cell, rarely obsolete, always much less than the cor- 

 responding one in Asterius ; the yellow emarginations are also considerably 

 narrower than in that form. 



Jiab. — Mexico. Coll. Entom. Society. 



A very remarkable approximation to our most common species of Papilio, 

 and indeed the general similarity existing in color and form has been almost 

 Sufficient to induce me to regard it as only a singular aberration, or a well 

 marked local race. 



Upon a closer and structural examination, however, we discover the follow- 

 ing points of difference in this most essential particular. 



First, the antennae of Asterius are fully a line longer than in the new type ; 

 secondly, the fourth subcostal veinlet is thrown off one-third nearer the cell 

 than in our endemic species ; thirdly, in it the cell is broader than in the 

 corresponding ^, and the disco-cellular veins of equal length ; fourthly, upon 

 the secondaries the upper disco-cellular does not form so great an angle with 

 the second subcostal, and the intervals between the median veinlets are 

 larger, consequently the cell is both broader and longer. 



This adds a fourth member to that group of segregated forms, ranging over 

 the largest portion of central and southern North America, and consisting 

 heretofore of Asterius, Aristor, and Indra. 



Mr. Wm. H. Edwards is in possession of a beautiful new species from Ari- 

 zona, belonging to the same series, which I hope he will soon describe. 



28. LycvExa isola, nov. sp. 



Upper surface brownish black, glossed with violet blue ; a black terminal 

 line, broadest at the apex of the fore wings, thence diminishing to the anal 

 angle ; a small rounded, submarginal black spot near the latter ; fringe 

 white. 



Underneath dark ash grey : primaries with two submarginal, slightly 

 waved whitish lines ; interior to these a row of six large rounded black spots, 

 all ringed with white ; two white streaks at the end of the cell. 



Secondaries with a submarginal row of indistinct brown spots, of which the 

 three nearest the anal angle are black, the first and third irrorated with me- 

 tallic golden-green atoms, and the third surmounted by a yellowish lunule; 

 all the others are preceded by whitish crescents ; above these there is a suf- 

 fused white belt, and still farther, two double rows of waved and crenulated 

 whitish lines ; a small subcostal black ocellus near the base. 



A narrow terminal black line edges the outer margin of the four wings ; 

 fringe ashy white. Expanse '88 inches. 



Antennae black ringed with white. 



Hab. — "Mexico (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



29. Thecla Xami, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface drab brown tinged with olivaceous, costa and outer 

 margin of primaries broadly margined with blackish-brown. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



333 



Secondaries with a narrow terminal line, edged interiorly, at the anal angle, 

 with a short white line ; two tails, the outer short, and tipped with white, the 

 inner one three times the length of the outer, and fringed exteriorly with 

 white. Fringe brown. 



Under side reddish brown, suffused with greenish and olivaceous, espe- 

 cially on the apical area of the fore wings and over the whole hind wings. A 

 transverse white line, bordered interiorly by a ferruginous streak, runs from 

 the outer third of the primaries' costa, nearly parallel with the outer edge, to 

 the abdominal margin. Secondaries with a terminal white line, and a small 

 black anal patch ; the lower part of the area enclosed between those two white 

 lines is strewn with violaceous ash-white atoms, and there are two prolonga- 

 tions of the inner white line, respectively down the first and second median 

 veinlets, usually uniting with the ashy space below. Posterior to this line 

 there are three oblong black spots encircled with white, and following the cen- 

 tral of these a larger violaceous brown patch. Expanse 1"1^ inches. An- 

 tennae black, annulated with white, club ferruginous. 



Female. Upper surface reddish ochreous ; the black margins are much 

 broader than in the male. Underneath the surface is more greenish ; expanse 

 1*25 inches. 



Hah. — " Mexico (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



30. Thecla zoe, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper side brilliant, shining blue, a black border of moderate width 

 on the primaries, broadest at the apex ; narrower upon the secondaries, which 

 have two tails, the inner being the longest and tipped with white ; there is 

 the usual smooth sexual spot at the end of the fore-wings' cell, and obliquely 

 below, and connected with it a large black patch. 



Underneath brown tinged with purplish ; on the primaries a submarginal 

 band of obsolete dashes and a sinuated median row of six black spots extend- 

 ing from the costa to the first median veinlet. 



iSecondaries with three transverse bands and lines ; the first is composed of 

 interrupted black spots and dashes, bordered posteriorly with pale silvery- 

 blue ; the second is a waved black line, above which is super-imposed a broad 

 stripe of silvery-blue atoms, and the third is marginal and silvery blue ; 

 there is besides a large black anal patch, and a small black spot above and 

 midway between the two tails, surmounted by a reddish crescent ; also a large 

 rounded black dot above the cell. Fringe brown ; expanse 1'4 inches. 



Body above glossed with lustrous blue ; underneath brown, abdomen yel- 

 lowish. 



Hah. — " Mexico (near Vera Cruz)." W. H. Edwards. 



31. Thecla barajo, nov. sp. 



Female. Upper side shining greenish blue ; costa of primaries, and a very 

 broad outer belt, black ; secondaries with a broad brownish-black outer mar- 

 gin, cut by a narrow, submarginal, white line ; two tails, the fringe from the 

 apex of the primaries to the lower of these, white ; this has the anterior side 

 fringed with black, and the posterior with white ; hence to the anal angle tlie 

 fringe is black. 



Underneath light brown ; the fore wings crossed between the middle and 

 apex by four transverse white stripes, of which the first runs parallel with 

 and close to the outer margin ; the second starts near the apex, and in com- 

 mon w'ith the other two, rising respectively at three-fourths and one-half the 

 length of the costa, converges towards the inner angle ; a short line running 

 above the submedian vein unites the three; the third is bent very abruptly 

 immediately before this junction. 



Secondaries have two submarginal white lines, united at the outer angle 

 and on the second and first median nervules ; the upper one, in the space 

 included between these two veinlets, is replaced by a black line surmounted 



1866.] 




834 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



by a fnlvona luiiulo ; tho lower Imlf of the inner line is bordererl interiorly by 

 a narrow black line, and the enclosed spaces and outer margin below the 

 upper tail are filled with black patches; there are lour white lines, two from 

 the costa, one from the base, and one from the inner margin, all converging 

 towards and uniting above the fulvous lune ; the first and last are edged pos- 

 teriorly by a narrow black line, and the third and fourth are broadly inter- 

 rupted by the submedian vein. Expanse 1'5 inches. 



Body above glossed with greenish blue, beneath brownish ; antennae black 

 with white annulations. 



Hub. — " Mexico (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



32. NisoNiADES Mejicanus, nov. sp. 



Upper side brownish black, a submarginal row of pale brownish spots on 

 both wings ; on the primaries an interior tortuous row of nine spots, of 

 which the first five are pure white and well defined, the others are sometimes 

 obsolete ; a white discal spot. 



Underneath paler,, glossed with purple at the base of the primaries ; their 

 apex and the secondaries shining olivaceous brown ; a row of five white spots 

 runs from the costa of the primaries, and a white discal spot ; the veins of the 

 secondaries are prominently outlined in dark velvety brown ; expanse 1 inch. 

 Fringe brown. 



Body and antennse as in N. Catullus. 



Hab. — " Mexico (near Vera Cruz)." W. H. Edwards. 



A neotropical representative of our own Catullus. There are, in my col- 

 lection, several new and allied South American forms, which replace this 

 species upon the Amazons, and further southward ; they will be described 

 hereafter. 



33. Pyrgus montivagus, nov. sp. 



Upper side dark olive brown ; primaries — a marginal row of minute white 

 spots, sometimes obsolete, followed by a submarginal series of larger ones ; an. 

 irregular transverse, maculate band, composed thus : three oblong dashes 

 from the costa, preceded by a small dot, then three rounded or subquadrate 

 and smaller spots, and following, two large subquadrate patches, the last 

 usually presenting a brown indentation on the outer side ; a large quadrangu- 

 lar discal spot, between which and the third, fourth and fifth of the transverse 

 band, are a small dot, and two narrow streaks ; above the discal spot are one 

 or two small dashes, and below it two conical spots; the outer half of the 

 co^ta has four or five linear spaces upon it. 



Hind wings with a marginal and submarginal row of rounded spots, and a 

 mesial band of five or six oblong bars ; all the markings of the upper surface 

 are white. Fringe white, cut with black at the end of the nervures. 



Under surface primaries have the markings of the upper side, repeated and 

 enlarged ; ground color pale olive brown. 



Secondaries pale olive brown, lighter towards the base; a curved black 

 line on the projecting shoulder, terminating in an enlarged knob; two trans- 

 verse white maculate bands ; one near the base of three spots, edged pos- 

 teriorly with brown lines, the other is mesial, of irregular outline, and 

 bordered with black lines on both sides ; a submarginal and a marginal 

 series of white lunes, surmounted by darker lines ; abdominal area white, 

 with a dark maiginal line and projecting shadow at the anal angle. Ex- 

 panse 1-20 inches. 



Hab.-Rovky Mountains, Colorado Territory. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt. ) 

 *' Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



Most probably an alpine modification of the common Fergus oileus. 



34. PYRGDS MACAIRA, nOV. Sp. 



Male. Upper surface pearly-white, apex of primaries strewn with dark 

 brown atoms, with indistinct traces of an interior submarginal line ; base of 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 335 



both wings heavily powdered with radiating black atoms ; excepting this, the 

 secondaries are immaculate ; fringe brown, darkest on the primaries. 



Underneath the primaries have a trapezoidal brownish space at their apex, 

 behind which there is a transverse band, widening upon either margin. 

 Secondaries have a very broad dark griseous-brown terminal band, commenc- 

 ing just before the apex, and ending at the submedian uervure; there is also 

 a triangular baseo-costal patch, divided into three parts by white lines, the 

 two outer are sometimes coalescent, and an oblong bar extending down the 

 submedian vein, seemingly composed of three sections, of which the basal is 

 linear ; the second and largest, and the third, somewhat less, are rounded, 

 quadrangular and triangular in different individuals ; the interior portion of 

 the wing — the area contained within these markings — is obscured with dusky 

 atoms ; the abdominal margin is aligned with brownish griseous. 



Body above brownish black, beneath whitish ; antennae above dark brown, 

 incompletely annulated with white, underneath paler, club ferruginous ; alar 

 expanse 1 — 1']5 inches. 



Female. Pearly white ; fore wings pearly white ; a brownish black space 

 at the apex, interior to this, two transverse bands ; and a submarginal row 

 of connected lunulas, all of the same color. Hind wings with a narrow termi- 

 nal black line, and a submarginal luniilate band usually reduced to two 

 luuules on the middle of the outer margin, sometimes, though rarely, com- 

 plete ; short black lines run up the veins from the outer margin ; fringe brown 

 upon the fore-wings, soiled white upon the hind wings. 



Underneath as in the male, the fore wing markings much plainer ; those 

 upon the secondaries very indistinct, and the terminal border is considerably 

 widened ; body and antennae the same ; alar expanse 1'37 — 1"45 inches. 



Hah. — ".Mexico, (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 

 Orizaba. (Coll. Try on Reakirt.) 



35. Caechakodus mazans. 



Upper surface purplish brown, strewn with grayish white points ; three 

 transverse dark brown bands extending from the primaries' costa to the ab- 

 dominal margin of the secondaries ; the first is at two-fifths the length of the 

 wings ; the second and broadest at foiir fifths, and the third is terminal. In- 

 terior to the second are three small white spots ; two, close together, are near 

 the costa, the other slightly below the middle ; fringe brown; wings strongly 

 scalloped and indented ; expanse 1 inch. 



Underneath brown ; the markings reproduced very indistinctly ; body and 

 antennae brown. 



Hah. — *' Mexico, (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



36. Eresia sydra, nov. sp. 



Wings of the shape of E. Otanes, Hewits. Upper surface dark brown ; base 

 of both wings reticulated with indistinct rufous lines ; three incomplete rufous 

 lunulate lines extending a short distance only from the inner margin of the 

 secondaries ; on the primaries a small yellowish white spot near to awd above 

 the middle of the outer margin, between which and the inner angle there are 

 two indistinct rufous yellow spots ; expanse 1"25 inches. 



Underneath dull umber-brown, with a purplish brown border on the outer 

 margin ; the spots of the upper side reproduced, and dark brown waved lines 

 towards the base. Secondaries paler, shaded with grayish purple and pur- 

 plish brown ; several waved lines toward the outer margin, above which a 

 series of indistinct ocelli, followed by a row of connected lunulae, between 

 which and the base are numerous zigzag and curved lines ; there are but slight 

 chromatic variations over the surface ; prominent shadings only on the costa, 

 near the apical angle and along the outer margin. 



Hab. — *' Mexico, (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



Related to E. otanes, Hewitson. 



1866.] 




oao PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



37. PlERIS LRNOUIS, nOV. Bp. 



Male, Upper surface sulphur yellow, a narrow black line at the apex of 

 the primaries. 



Underneath the secondaries and apical portion of the primaries vivid orange 

 ochreous ; posterior portion of the primaries as above. On the hind wings 

 there are two grayish black spots on the costa, and another below the cell at 

 the exsertion of the first median veinlet. Wings shaped as in PL Margarita ; 

 expanse 2*35 inches. 



Hah.—"' Mexico, (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



Allied to Pi. isandra, Boisd. 



38. PiERis PAsiON, nov. sp. 



Upper surface chalky-white, immaculate. 



Under surface : fore wings' apical area and hind wings suffused with pale 

 creamy ochraceous, otherwise as above ; upon the secondaries are four narrow 

 transverse gieenish-gray lines ; two respectively running from tlie upper 

 thirds of the first and second subcostal veiulets to the costa ; the third starts 

 at the upper fourth of the submedian vein, bounds the lower portion of the 

 cell, is discontinued in the lower, and reappears in the upper disco-cellular 

 interspace ; the fourth, between the last and the margin, is composed of two 

 connected segments, rarely with a part of a third, all being contained within 

 the median interspaces ; the nervules here and upon the apex of the prima- 

 ries are outlined in the same color ; expanse 2*25 — 2-40 inches. 



Hab. — "Mexico, (near Vera Cruz.") Wm. H. Edwards. 



The ornamentation of the under side approaches very nearly to some spe- 

 cies of Hesperocharis. 



39. Synchloe ardema, nov. sp. 



Female. Upper surface black ; fore wings with a waved row of seven spots 

 across the apical half of the wing, an abbreviated row of four white spots 

 within these, running down from the costa, and an isolated spot, opposite the 

 fifth of the first row, between it and the outer margin, all Wi.ite ; two pale 

 luteous spots in the middle and lower median interspaces. Hind wings black, 

 rarely with an indistinct orange brown shade across the disc ; fringe black, 

 spotted with white. 



Underneath: fore wings the same, with the enlargement of the white spots, 

 the addition of two submarginal lunes, of two spots within the cell, and of an 

 orange tawny streak at the base of the costa. Hind wings with a sub-basal 

 band of four spots ; a narrow mesial band extending from the costa to the sub- 

 median vein, and a marginal series of lunes, all ochreous ; intermediate be- 

 tween these last a series of six rounded white spots ; a tawny orange spot near 

 the anal angle ; expanse 1'87 inches. 



Body and antennae black, the latter annulated with white ; palpi streaked 

 with whitish ; legs tawny orange. 



Hab. — "Mexico, (near Vera Cruz)." Wm. H. Edwards. 



I regard both this and the S. tellias, of Bates, as local modifications of S. 

 lacinia, Hiibner. 



40. Neonympha xicaque, nov. sp. 



Upper surface pale brown ; fore wings with a broad dark brown terminal 

 border ; two narrow transverse waved and angulated lines, one extending 

 across the wing just beyond the cell, the other contained within the cell ; in 

 the upper portion of the area, enclosed between the first and the marginal band, 

 there are two rounded black spots, of which the anterior is the largest. 



Hind wings with two mesial, strongly angulated red-brown lines, of which 

 the portion of the upper one nearest the abdominal margin is usually obsolete ; 

 following these is a series of six rounded black spots, of which the first and 

 third are the least, and the second is sometimes prolonged posteriorly, the 

 sixth is usually wanting ; the margin presents three continuous red-brown 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



lines, obscnred by a darker shade towards the apex ; of these the two outer 

 conform in outline with the indentations of the margin, the interior presents 

 a leugthnned arc from the abdominal margin to the third median veinlet, be- 

 tween which and the costa it is thrown into three shorter curves. 



Fringe brown and white alternately ; expanse 1'75 inches. 



Underneath pale brown, darker towards the base, suffused with fuscons ; 

 two continuous broad red-brown lines extend from the subcostal vein of the 

 fore to the abdominal margin of the hind wings; following these are two ocelli 

 upon the first, and six upon the latter, all black, pnpilled with white, and 

 surrounded by reddish brown rings ; of these the first upon the primaries is 

 much the largest, the second upon the same, and the third upon the secon- 

 daries, minute and rather indistinct, the two apical ones of the latter closely 

 approximating, and their other three at equal distances apart— all these five of 

 nearly the same size ; the border of the primaries is replaced by three narrow- 

 lines, and those upon the secondaries remain as on the upper surface; the 

 area enclosed between the inner mesial line, and the base is, upon the secon- 

 daries, much darker than the rest of the surface. 



Body brown ; anteunse brown with incomplete pale annulations ; club whitish 

 beneath. 



Hah. — " Mexico, (near Vera Cruz.)" Wm. H. Edwards. 



More nearly allied to N. canthus, L., than any other of its congeneric asso- 

 ciates, but still very distinct. 



41. Thecla jalan, nov, sp. 



Female. Upper surface white glossed with black ; a dark olive brown shade - 

 occupying the apical area and extending along the costal and outei' margins . 

 of the primaries. 



Secondaries bordered with a narrow black line, preceded by a white one as . 

 far as the submedian vein ; interior to this a broad olive brown band, running, 

 from the costa down to the second median vein, thence to the margin bright 

 orange, containing a small black spot in the first interspace, and also on the 

 anal lobf, upon which there are some violet atoms ; two black tails of equal 

 length, the uppermost being tipped with white. 



Underneath pure white ; on the primaries four broad transverse olive 

 blown bands, including the marginal, all tapering towards their inner mar- 

 gin ; a pale orange spot at their base. 



Secondaries with seven convergent and tapering bands, six of which unite 

 in a waved black line that covers the large orange anal sp©t ; this contains 

 three black spots, of which the one at the anal angle is much the largest, and 

 surmounted by a white ray. 



Body blackish above, yellowish white beneath ; head with an orange front- 

 let ; first and second articles of the palpi white, the third black ; antennae 

 black; expanse 1 "45 inches. 



ffab. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



42. GoMLOBA POYAS, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface dark olive brown, with long greenish hairs on the 

 abdominal margin, and covering the body. Fore wings with a large tri-par- 

 tite orange-ochreous spot about the end of the cell, interior to, and obliquely 

 below which, there is an oblong sexual spot, of closely appressed grayish 

 white scales. 



Secondaiies immaculate; a bright yellow fringe extends from the costa to 

 the first median vein; for the remaining distance the cilise are brown. 



Underneath, apex of primaries tinged with purplish, the sexual mark is 

 wanting, but there is a bright yellow spot connecting the upper (jchreous one 

 with the costa. Secondaries underneath, as above, save that the yellow color 

 of the fringe extends slightly over the edge of the wing. 



Wings shaped as in G. tityrm, Fab., but the anal lobe is more obtusid; 

 expanse 1*75—2 inches. 



18t)6] 22 




838 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Boriy brown, clotlied with long hairs ; nnns encircled with long, bright yel- 

 low hairs ; legs reddish ; antennre black, iiuder side of club bright yellow. 



Ifah. — Brazil. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. 

 H. Edwards. 



43. TiiECLA CRSTRi, nov. sp. 



Mtle. Upper surface brown, glossed with slaty-blue around the body ; a 

 large velvety-black sexual maik on the primaries, and two, rarely three, 

 smaller black spots on the outer margin of the secondaries towards the anal 

 angle ; each of tliese is preceded by a bluish gray ray ; there is also a narrow 

 terminal black line. Frinsze of the primaries brown and white alternately ; 

 that of the secondaries white in the middle, and brown at either angle. 



Expanse 1—1-13 inches ; margin of fore wings sinuated ; of the hind wings 

 rounded, and slightly lobed at the anal angle. 



Underneath : primaries dull brownish-olivaceous, tinged with yellowish, 

 basally ; a sinuated transverse row of six brown or black lunes runs down 

 from the costa, midway between the cell and the outer margin, beyond these 

 the space is occupied with gray shades, containing a marginal row of oblong 

 brownish dashes, of which the nearest to the inner angle is most distinct. 



Secondaries grayish, transversed hy numerous waved and lunulate lines 

 and rows of spots ; a subbasal row of five extending to both margins, of which 

 the first four are orbicular, and the fifth lunulate ; of these the second from 

 the costa is the largest ; a mesial series likewise stretching to both, and di- 

 minisl)ing towards the abdominal margin; both of these rows are yellowish- 

 brown, edged posteriorly with blackish curved lines ; from the upper middle 

 of the central one, a diflfiised shade of the same color extends towards the 

 outer margin ; on the upper angle there is a large lune, followed by several 

 smaller ones, and towards the anal angle the two or three black spots of the 

 upper surface are reproduced. 



Body bro^n above, clothed with long slaty-blue hairs, whitish beneath ; 

 antennae annulated with black and white ; club black, tipped with yellowish 

 brown. 



Female. The lower half of the secondaries above is bluish gray, containing 

 three marginal black spots, and underneath the markings are reduced in size 

 and become paler. Expanse '95 inches. 



Bab. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



44. Thecla juicha, nov. sp. 



Female. Upper surface brownish black, glossed with bluish gray on the 

 posterior portions of both wings, but slightly upon the primaries, largely so 

 on the secondaries ; a narrow terminal black line edges the outer margin of 

 the latter, preceded interiorly by a pale bluish white line ; a single tail, long, 

 black tipped with white. Fringe of primaries orange brown; of the secon- 

 daries yellowish-ochreous as far as the tail, afterwards bluish gray. Expanse 

 1*25 inches. 



Underneath : primaries brownish gray, snflTused with purplish at the base 

 and towards the apex ; a short narrow discal arc, an oblong curved bar be- 

 tween it and the base, an irregular curved broad band beyond the discal arc, 

 and a submarginal series of lunulse, all dark brown ; the second and last of 

 these are edged with white interiorly, the third exteriorly, and the disoal 

 curve on both sides ; the outer margin presents a large ochreous patch. 



Secondaries, costa and posterior portions purplish gray, the remainder pale 

 ochrey-yellow ; four transverse lines, all dark ochrey-brown on the anterior 

 half, and olive brown or black edged with white on the posterior half of 

 the wings ; {he first and third are most distinct, these and the fourth extend 

 from margin to margin, while the second is simply a discal curve ; some shin- 

 ing orange brown atoms occupy the anal angle. 



Body black above, clothed with bluish gray hairs, yellowish-white beneath ; 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 339 



the tibise and tarsi are incompletely annulated with black and white alternately, 

 but in sections of unequal value. 



Hab. — " Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



45. Thecla yojoa, nov. sp. 



Female. Upper surface, brownish, bluish gray on the hind portion of the 

 secondaries ; tliese are margined by a narrow black terminal line, above which 

 towards the anal angle are four rounded black spots of which the third is the 

 largest, and surmounted by a yellow crescent ; a long tail proceeds from the 

 extremity of the first median veinlet. 



Under surface pale brownish-gray ; a transverse, nearly straight line runs 

 across the primaries from the costa to the first median veinlet, midway be- 

 tween the cell and the outer margin ; the area beyond this is irrorated with 

 whitish, upon which is superimposed a double row of marginal spots; also a 

 white discal streak. Secondaries with a similar transverse line and disoal 

 arc, the first broken into three portions, each of which forms an almost right 

 line; the upper is equal to the other two combined, and which are obliquely 

 below and interior to it, as is also the lower to the middle one ; an indistinct 

 series of marginal ocelli, covered by a continuous row of lunula, — the first and 

 third from the anaL angle are dark brown, and surmounted by a yellowish 

 lune. Expanse 1*15 inches. 



Antennae ringed with black and white ; club tipped with ferruginous. 



Hab. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



46. Thecla istapa, nov. sp. 



Female. Upper surface brownish, bluish-gray on the hind portion of the 

 secondaries ; these are margined by a narrow black terminal line, above which 

 towards the anal angle are four rounded or lunulate black spots, of which the 

 last two are the largest ; a slender tail proceeds from the extremity of the first 

 median veinlet. 



Under surface pale brownish-gray ; an obsolete double row of brownish lu- 

 nules, separated by whitish ^-rescents along the outer margin of the prima- 

 ries ; within, a curved row of six dark brown spots, edged exteriorly with 

 white. 



Secondaries have a brown discal arc, a dark brown spot within, and another 

 above the cell, both ringed with white ; beyond the cell a sinuated row of 

 dark brown streaks and dashes, edged posteriorly with white ; following these 

 is a series of white sagittate marks, and a marginal row of indistinct brown 

 ocelli, ringed with white. The second from the anal angle is black, covered 

 by a luteous crescent ; there is also a small black spot on the anal lobe, simi- 

 larly surmounted. Expanse '85 inch. 



Body and antennse as in TK yojoa, 



Hab. — "Mexico, near Vera. Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



Very closely allied to the preceding species, especially upon the upper sur- 

 face ; underneath, however, the differences are considerable. 



47. Erycidks lilea, nov. sp. 



Upper surface shining blue-black, irrorated with lustrous green particles 

 over the basal area and the body ; a large fulvous red costal spot on the pri- 

 maries, cut by the sub-costal vein ; outer margin of both wings, including the 

 anal angle of secondaries, fringed with white hairs, especially long upon the 

 latter. 



Underneath as above, but destitute of the green irrorations. Expanse 2-25 

 inches. 



Body blue-black, the palpi, excepting the terminal joint, and a collar, ful- 

 vous-red ; antennse black. 



Var. a ; the abdominal margin is fringed with dark brown hairs, encroach- 

 ing slightly upon the white anal ciliae. 



Hab, — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



A local race of the well-known Erycides palemon. 



1866.] 




840 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMl OF 



48. GoMLonA AzuL, nov. ap. 



Upper surface dark brown ; basal third of both wings brilliantly glossed 

 with shining blue ; on the primaries, a sliort, translucent-white cost.il bar, 

 towards the apex cut into five spots by the subcostal veinb^ts and radials ; a 

 broad mesial, transverse, transparent, white band, composed of six spots, ex- 

 tends from the inner third of the costa to near the outer margin, a short dis- 

 tance above the inner angle. 



Underneath brown, with a darker median shade on both wings ; markinjrs 

 of primaries remain the same ; a yellow spot at their base, and beyond, as far 

 as the central transverse band, glossed along and below the costa with shining 

 blue. 



Costa of secondaries broadly white at the base, and tapering towards the 

 middle, there terminating ; a small brown spot at the shoulder, before which 

 it is faintly yellowish. Expanse 2-5 inches. 



Body brown, clothed above on the thorax with shining blue hairs, below 

 with ochreous yellow ; abdomen brown, the segments marked with blue hairs 

 above and brown below. Head and collar lustrous green ; palpi yellowish- 

 white. Antennae black. 



Hah. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



49. Leptalis mita, nov. sp. 



Male^ Above sulphur-yellow; fore wings with a black outer margin, 

 broadest at the apex, there extending along the costa a little more than quar- 

 ter its length, and terminating in a rounded knob, resting upon the first me- 

 dian veinlet ; the interior outline of this marginal band is sinuated, and 

 shaped much as in the allied species kollari and licinia, presenting two inte- 

 rior, deeply curved indentations, and a short, nearly straight line on the 

 costa ; this border also contains in its upper part an oblique yellow bar, 

 touching the costa, and rounded posteriorly. Basal portion of costa powdered 

 with black atoms ; a short oblique black bar runs to the sub-costal vein, at 

 about the middle of the margin. 



Secondaries immaculate. Expanse 1-87 inches. 



Underneath sulphureous ; the outer portion of the black margin disappears, 

 leaving only a transverse apical black belt, extending to neither margin ; the 

 black costal bar remains, and there are some continued black atoms in the 

 cell below it. 



Secondaries present a transverse blackish ray below the cell, which reaches 

 to neither edge. 



Body : thorax above black, covered with yellowish-green hairs, below 

 yellow ; abdomen yellowish-white ; antennae black, with white annulations ; 

 club purplish-brown. 



Ilab. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H: Edwards. 



Wings shaped as in Lept. Hernia ; of the described species, it approximates 

 most nearly to the Lept. isodrita^ Boisd., of Brazil, of which it is probably a 

 northern modification. 



50 AcHLYODES Hewitsonius, nov. sp. 



Upper surface : primaries grayish brown, flecked with spots, and crossed 

 by lines of paler hue ; a dark brown terminal line along the outer margin, 

 followed by a right line of pale grayish brown, which runs obliquely inwardly 

 from the apex, becoming lost in the discal shades ; then a large apical tri- 

 angular fulvous-brown patch, with the base placed on the costa, and an 

 oblique band of the same color running from the lower portion or apex of the 

 triangle down to the middle of the inner margin, the veins and veinlets cross- 

 ing both becoming dark brown during their passage ; a large interior trape- 

 zoidal patch, darkest at either end, extends from the costa to the lower part 

 of the cell, and a subbasal transverse band stretches from the subcostal to 

 the submedian vein, both fulvous brown. 



Secondaries ochraceous, more brownish on the abdominal margin, and 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCBS OP PHILADELPHIA. 841 



tinged with orange towards the costa ; a terminal brown line as on the fore 

 wings ; a narrow discal bar, a broad belt across the middle of the cell, con- 

 nected above with two equally broad spots, b ith extending to the costal 

 nervure, and commingling: below with the dark abdominal shades ; an irregu- 

 lar transvtrse band, twice bent at right angles near its middle, beyond the 

 cell, extending from the first subcostal veiulet to the submedian vein ; all 

 dark brown ; expanse 2*5 inches. 



Underneath the primaries are ochreous, paler towards the outer margin, 

 and with an ashy apical spot ; the markings of the upper surface are almost 

 obsolete. 



Secondaries dull orange brown ; markings as above, but very indistinct ; 

 the abdominal and apical areas are strewn with ashy atoms. 



Antennse black, ochraceous beneath. 



^a6. — " Mexico, near Vera Cruz." "W. H.Edwards. 



This, most beautiful as well as one of the largest species of its genus, does 

 not assimilate closely with any of its associates. 



I have many other new species ot this genus, which I hope to figure at 

 some future time ; it is impossible to describe them. 



At the time that I wrote the " Notes upon Exotic Lepidoptera," &c., I had 

 had no opportunity of consulting any of Dr. Felder's numerous writings in 

 the " Wit-ner Entom. Monatschrift." I have now to regret having redescribed 

 several of his species ; an error which, however unfortunate, from uselessly 

 multiplying difficulties in the correct determination of species, is scarcely to 

 be avoided when two Entomologists are working upon the same subject at the 

 same time. I append their corrected nomenclature, together with some other 

 synouymical reciificatious. 



Pap. semperi, Felder. 



Pap. semperi, Felder, Wien. Ent. Monatschrift v., p. 297 (1861). 

 •' " " vi., p. 282 (18(i2). 



" Zool. d. No vara Exp. 

 Atr-^ph. erythrosoma, Reakirt, Pro^. Eat. doc. Phil., iii., p. 447. n. 2 

 (1864). 



Pap. DiKDALus, Boisd. 



Pap. daedaius Felder, Wien. Ent. Monatschrift, v., p. 298 (IS 61). 



" Zool. d. Novara Exp. 

 Pap. palinurus, Fab., Reakirt, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iii., p. 463 (1864;. 



Pap. hystaspes, Feld. 



Pap. hystaspes, Felder, Wien. Ent. Monatschrift, vi., p. 283 (1862). 



*' Zool, d. Novara Exp. 

 Pap. varasi, Reakirt, Proc. Eat. Soci Phil., iii., p. 465 (1864). 



Pap. ledebouria, Esch. 



Pap. Jlorsfiddh, Reakirt, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iii., p. 476 (1864). 



Pap. gordiox, Felder. 



Pap. gordlon, Feld., Zool. d. Novara Exp. « 



Pap. eurypylus, L., Reakirt, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iii., p. 481 (1864). 



Pap. Euphrates, Felder. 



Pap. Euphrates, Felder, Wied. Ent. Monatschr., vi., p. 383 (1862). 



" Zool. d Novara Exp. 

 Pap. Moorei, Reakirt, Proc. Eut. Soc. Phil., iii., p. 485 (1864). 



Leptocircus decius, Felder. 



Lept. decius, Felddr, Wien. Ent. Monatschr., vi., p. 284 (1882). 

 " Zool. d. Novara E<p. 



Lept. meges, Zink., Reakirt, Proc. Eut. Soc. Phil., iii., p. 494 (1864). 

 1866.] 




842 PROOEEDINQS OP T^E ACADEMY OP 



Papilto calklt, Reakirt. 



Pap. a/canmles, Felder, Zool. d. Novara Exp., p. 36, n. 26, t. Fii., f. o. 

 (1865). 

 Hab. — (Uiatemala. (Coll, Tryon Reakirt.) 

 Mexico. (Coll. Kntom. Soo.) 



New Granada? (Coll. Felder.) 

 A species of considerable range, and presenting sliglit modifications through- 

 out, which, however, are not local or conflned to particular sections. These 

 are well expressed by Dr. Felder, 1. c, p. 27, and may be briefly stated 

 thus. — In the varying size of the white or yellowish white spot, between the 

 two last median veinlets of the fore wings, and also in the width of the sub- 

 triangular green band ; in the presence of one or two greenish streaks of dif- 

 ferent h-ngths within the cell above the white spot, and in the longer or 

 shorter red spots upon the hind wings. 



Pa-pilio tonila, Reakirt. 



Pap. aristomenes, Felder, Zool. d. Novara Exp., p. 38, n. 27, t. viii., f. a. 

 (1865). 



Hab. — Guatemala. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



Mexico. (Coll. Entom. Soc. and Felder.) 



The only difference between Dr. Felder's excellent figure, and the speci- 

 mens in my possession, and the cabinet of the Society is, that his aristomenes 

 has a white dash above the subcostal vein of the primaries— absent in all 

 which I have seen. I do not doubt but that they are identical. I do not 

 believe that tonila is the 9 of caleli, as indicated by Dr. Feller in his 

 Specif s Lepidopterorum, p. 296, n. 107 (1S64) ; it is more nearly related to 

 the 9 of vii/lotes, Gray, than caldi is to the (^ of that species. 



Pap. caldi and tonila belong to a group of nearly allied forms of peculiar 

 facies, all inhabiting the northern parts of South, or the tropical portions of 

 North America ; their co-members are myloies, Gray, titnias, Dbldy., and 

 eurimedes, Cram. ; the last, possessed of the greatest range, is most probably 

 the parent stock of the other and segregated species. 



Papilto gundlachianus, Felder. 



Pap. Gundlach., Feld. Verhl. d. Zool. hot. Gesellsch. in Wien, p. 294, n. 



75 (1864). 

 Pap. Columhus, Gundl. Herr. Sch. Corr. Bl. Zool. Min. Vereins, xvi., 



p. 141 (1862). 

 Not Pap. Columbus, Hewits. Trans. Ent. Soc. Lend., n. ser., i., p. 98 



(1851.) 

 Pap. Grotei, Blake, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iv., p. 313 (1865.) 



Description of the Hot Springs of Soda Creek, their location, number, temp- 

 erature and altitude, and the Geological features of the surrounding 

 locality; together with the remarkable oiscovery of a human skeleton 

 and a fossil Pine Tree in the Boulder and Gravel formation of Soda Bar, Oct. 

 13th, 1860. 



^ BY E. L. BERTIIOUD, C. E. 



Soda Creek is in Long. 105° 40^. Lat. 39° 35^. Approx. altitude above the 

 sea 6570 feet. 



Time of observation 10 A. M., Oct. 13th, 1860. Wind W. S. W. Sky 

 cloudless. Therm, in air 57° F. Temperature of Soda Creek 45° F. 

 1st. Spring temperature of water 98° F. 

 2d. " " " 99° " 



3d. " " ' 



4th. " " ' 



5th. " " ' 



6th. " " ' 



7th. " " ' 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 843 



There are numerous other cold and warm springs that issue from the sur- 

 face in, every direction, but not deep or large enough to give a fair average 

 temperature. The water of these springs deposits on the surrounding ground 

 and stones a saline efflorescence of a pure white, and with a soda or saline 

 taste. Several of the hot springs are continually depositing a tufa, which has 

 formed around them all dome-shaped hillocks, with basin-like cavities in the 

 centre, from which the water, mingled with a constant rush of bubbles of gas, 

 boils up like a seething caldron. The waters have an acid taste not unpleas- 

 ant, with decidedlji chalybeate qualities, which approximate it very much to 

 the famed Congress Springs of Saratoga, N. Y. Iron is deposited by several 

 of the springs, giving a reddish tinge to the tufa. The springs are situated from 

 three to thirty feet above the level of Soda Creek, a clear cold mountain stream, 

 with gravelly bed ; for a long distance below the springs, the gravel in the bar 

 and bed of Soda Creek are cemented by the tufa deposited by the hot springs. 

 It has evidently been always a place of resort for the mountain sheep (Ovis mon- 

 tana,) mountain goat (Capra Amer.) and buffalo (Bison Amer.) who delight to 

 lick the incrustations and drink the waters of these springs. This is shown by 

 their numerous bones found above and under ground near the springs. Indeed, 

 as late as July 3d, 1860, three mountain sheep were killed near these springs. 

 In the springs, both hotand cold, confervas and a few grasses grow ; no fish, how- 

 ever, are found in them; no Crustacea except perhaps one about 1|- inches long, 

 which is found in the hot springs, and which has a hard covering and rudiment- 

 ary legs. This insect, crustacean, or whatever it may be, is very much of 

 the color, size and shape of the kind found in Great Salt Lake, by Captain 

 Fremont, in 1843 — 44. 



The flora of the neighboring region to these springs is rather scanty, 

 and comprises the following more common species : 

 Juniperus communis. Sesleria dactyloides. 



Juniperus virginianus. Bromus, sp. undet. 



Pinus variabilis. Poa, '^ " 



Pinus fraseri. Elymus hystrix. 



Salix tristis. Helianthus, sp. undet. 



Populus angulata. Aster, 2 sp. undet. 



Populus tremuloides. Cynoglossum, sp. undet. 



Alnus incana. Euchroma coccinea. 



Cornus sericea. ' Cactus opuntia. 



Solidago secunda ? Astragalus, 3 sp. 



Stanleyi integrifolia. Baptisia, 1 sp. undet. 



Camelina, 1 sp. Sisymbrium, 1 sp. 



Draba, 2 sp. Barbarea, 1 sp. 



Calochortus luteus. Fragaria virginiana. 



Sorbus, sp. undet. Rubus spectabilis. 



Spiraea, " " " idaeus. 



Rosa, " '' Ribes floridum. 



Vacciniura, sp. undet. Ribes, 2 sp. undet. 



What, however, renders the locality of the Hot Soda Springs still more re- 

 markable, aside from their singular character, and the picturesque scenery 

 of their surrounding location, is the following fact recently developed : 



About the last days of September, 1860, two miners, who had been for two 

 months and a half opening a mining claim about 200 yards S. W. of the springs 

 and at the foot of the hill marked on the map Soda Hill, reached at last in the 

 gravel, boulders and rocky deposits of Soda Bar, a depth of 22 feet; here at 

 this depth and about 3 yards from the foot of the hill slope, they found a human 

 skeleton, lying on its face and imbedded in a deposit of gravel, sand, small 

 boulders, and fragments of the adjacent rock in situ, which from 2 feet below 

 the surface in this locality yields a very fine rich quality of coarse gold. The 

 skeleton, all whose larger bones, though very light and porous, were yet intact 

 and whose skull was also entire, was in a very tolerable state of preservation ■ 



1866.] 




844 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



nnder the skeleton and about 2 feet lower down, they found upon the sur- 

 face of what the mhiers call "red rock," the trunk, limbs and roots of a small 

 pine tree, identlciil in all respects with the red pine (I*, variabilis) of the adja- 

 cent slopes ; the bark ai)pcared chirred and blackened, the wood was light, 

 yellow and apparently sound, showing the fibrous woody structure, the knots, 

 the annual rings of growth, identical with varmbalis : on exposure to air, how- 

 ever, it soon became soft and crumbled, more like rotten, or water soaked wood. 

 The roots and limbs appeared as if violently compressed or forced in the seams 

 of the underlying rock. . There, then, was a point conclusi#ely shown, namely, 

 that prior to the cause which covered Soda Hill, Soda liar and Dry Diggings 

 Hill with its enormous beds of gravel, sand and boulders, and its native gold, 

 (which is everywhere sought for in this locality, from the lowest points of 

 Payne's and Hlinois Bars, 2.} feet above Clear Creek up to the highest points 

 where it can availably be mined and hauled to water) man roved and dwelt in 

 this region, timber grew, and everything requisite to furnish food to mankind 

 and the brute creation must have flourished in proximity. Here then we have, 

 within the period of man, evidence that either the convulsions which caused 

 the emergence of the Rocky Mountain range in Western Kansas is a very late 

 geological phenomenon, or that some sudden cause, the upheaval per- 

 haps of the higher Central range, through the metamorphic granite, the talc 

 and mica slates of the lower Eastern ranges of the Rocky Mountains; scooped 

 out the low interior mountain basin in which the Gregory, Russell, Nevada, 

 Lake and other gulches now mined and populated are located ; and that then, 

 as the floods, be they of mud, water, or snow and ice, caused by the disturbed 

 equilibrium of the older chain of mountains, by the sudden emptying of Moun- 

 tain Lakes perhaps, or by the sudden melting of snows and deluges of rain, 

 then subsided, and the vast fissures through which Clear Creek now finds its 

 way into the Platte gave way to the pent up waters ; then perhaps the receding 

 waters, still carrying a vast amount of detritus as the waters subsided, left them 

 in their present location. Indeed, one is at once surprised at the location of 

 the so-called Pike's Peak Gold Mines of Gregory and Clear Creek. 



After looking over a lofty mountain road for 16 miles, we descend from 1000 

 to 2000 feet into an interior mountain basin, surrounded on all sides by mountain 

 ranges of much greater altitude, and through which but one avenue has been 

 opened, where Clear Creek or Vasquez Fork of Platte river finds its way into 

 the vast prairies extending from the foot of the mountains to the Missouri river. 

 Perhaps it may be urged that glacial phenomena may account for this anoma- 

 lous fact. In answer we can say that, from the evidence before us, the climactic 

 condition of the present time, carried out by the identity of the long buried 

 flora of the period when this convulsion took place with the one now in ex- 

 istence, forbid us from supposing that the Central range (or Snowy range, more 

 commonly so-called,) was ever the seat of Glaciers large or extensive enough 

 to cause phenomena at all adequate to explain the changes and erosions now 

 so plainly seen in the valley of Vasquez Fork, or in the upper mining region. 

 The lofty summits of Long's and Pike's Peaks, , the intermediate lofty chain, the 

 high mountains between Clear Creek and Bear Creek, although they retain in 

 . places deposits of snow and small beds of ice, yet nothing is ever found upon 

 them answering the appearance of constant glaciers, whose accretion in cold 

 summers and diminution in warm summers write upon the bare mountain 

 peaks a history of their force and continued action. As a proof of the recent 

 'date of the convulsions that have in ag^s past furrowed and torn up the Plu- 

 tonic rocks of the east side of the range, that have upreared the tertiary strata 

 at the foot of the mountains, until their almost perpendicular strata form a 

 secondary valley parallel with the valley of the South Platte and has spread 

 over the vast plains of the Platte and Kansas Rivers, the boulders, gravel and 

 sand formed of Feldspathic granite, it is interesting and valuable, and may 

 be a guide, a clew to the solution of the question by which the valley of the 

 Platte, the interior prairie of South Park, the complete want, over a vast ex- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



345 



tent of country, of timber and vegetable soil may be accounted for, by the 

 draining and disappearance of vast bodies of fresh water ; whatever cataclysm 

 buried this member of the human family, be he Aztec, Indian, Esquimaux or 

 Mound builder, he is for the region above mentioned, " homo diluvii testis." 

 We confess that our preconceived notions of the antiquity of this globe have 

 received a severe shock by this discovery, and have modified our views of the 

 relative antiquity of the strata of this globe and the age of this part of the con- 

 tinent ; with a wish that some more able pen will help to elucidate this strange 

 point, we present these few facts. 



^4 list of minerals found in the Rocky Mountain Mining Region, between Long. 105° 

 and 106°. Lat. 40° and 39° N. 



December Ath. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty seven members present. 



Dr. Lf'idy made some remarks upon a collection of fossil bones, re- 

 cently brought from the Mauvaises Terres of White Ptiver, Nebraska, 

 by Prof Hayden. Among the fossils he exhibited the fragments of a 

 jaw, upon which he characterized a new sabre-toothed tiger, under the 

 name of Drepanodon or Macbairodus occidentalis, a species larger than 

 its cotemporary the D. primsevus. 



December Wth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Fifty three members present. 



The following were presented for publication: " List of Coleoptera 

 collected in Lycoming Co." "List of Coleoptera collected near Fort 

 Whipple.'' "Revision of the Dasytini," and " Additions to the Cole- 

 opterous Fauna of the United States, No. 1." By John L. LeConte, 

 M. D. 



" Descriptions of some new Cicindelidaa from the Pacific Ccast,'' and 

 " Descriptions of new Coleoptera of Central America.'' By Greo. H. 

 Horn, M. D. 



" On a new genus of Homoptera.'' By Henry Shiner. 



The elections postponed from tne last meeting for business were held 

 with the f -llowing result : 



Albert R. Leeds, A. R. Calhoun, Joseph C. Turnpenny, John Ford, 

 Edwin J. Houston and W. S. Grant, were elected members. 

 186G.] 




848 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Decemher 18/A. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Fifty members present. 



The following were presented for publication: ''On the consump- 

 tion of force by plants/' By Thomas Meehan. 



'' A second study of the Icteridae/' By John Cassin. 



Decemher 2bth. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



The meeting adjourned until the following evening, Wednesday, 

 Dec. 26th. 



December 2Qth. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Forty- two members present. 



On favorable report of the respective committees, the following were 

 ordered to be published : 



List of COLEOPTERA collected in the Mountains of Lycoming County, Pa. 

 BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M. D. 



During the first week of June, 1866, I had the good fortune to make one of a 

 party who visited Lycoming County, to indulge in the pleasure of trout-fishing. 

 Our station was on the Loyalsoc Creek, about thirty miles from Williamsport. 



The collection contained so many species not previously known in Pennsyl- 

 vania, that it has seemed to me, though small in extent, to merit particular con- 

 sideration ; the more so, because it indicates the necessity of greatly-increased 

 collections in the mountain regions, before we can begin to map out accurately 

 the distribution of our species. The names correspond with those in my list 

 of North American Coleoptera. 



Some of the more interesting new species, belonging to groups which I have 

 already investigated, I have named. The descriptions will be found in the fol- 

 lowing pages of this volume. Two of them I have dedicated to members of 

 the party, who, although unknown to the literature of science, appreciate 

 enthusiastically the beauties of nature ; and manifested, by their ardent pur- 

 suit of the finny game, and their accurate knowledge of his habits, such natu- 

 ral taste for scientific employments, as would, doubtless, had earlier oppor- 

 tunity favored, have much diminished the labor yet to be performed by stu- 

 dents of Zoology in this country. 



Nebria pallipes. Olisthopus parmatus. 



Cychrus (Sphjerod.) canadensis. Pterostichus sustentus. 

 Lecontei. rostratus. 



Schizogenius amphibius. honestus. 



Calathus (Pristodactyla) impunctata. mancus ? 



Platynus angustatus. caudicalis. 



marginatus. mutus. 



extensicollis. Luczotii. 



molestus. coracinus. 



Lee. stygicus. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



347 



Pterostichus lachryraosus. 

 Myas foveatus. 

 Amara? n. sp. 

 Dicaelus politus. 

 Anomoglossus emarginatus. 

 Chlaenius sericeus. 



cordicollis.* 

 pensylvanicus. 

 Atranus pubescens. 

 Anisodactylus Harrisii. 



nigerrimus. 

 Eurytrichus nitidipennis. 

 Bradycellus vulpeculus. 



rupestris. 

 Harpalus longicollis, 

 spadiceus. 

 Stenolophus ochropezus. 

 Patrobus angicoUis. 

 Bembidium nigrum, 

 n. sp. 

 simplex, 

 planum, 

 semistriatum. 

 Tachys tripunctatus. 



nanus [inornat. Say), 

 flavicauda. 

 Necrophorus pygmaeus. 

 Catops Spencianus. 



terminans. 

 Scydmaenus bicolor. 

 Batrisus globosus. 



two other species. 

 Falagria cingulata n. sp. 

 Myllsena sp. 



Aleocharini, 6 sp. not determined. 

 Coproporus ventriculus. 

 Conosoma crassum. 



Knoxii n. sp. 

 opicum. 

 Bryoporus testaceus. 

 Philonthus lomatus. 



one other sp. 

 Xantholinus cephalus. 

 Baptolinus macrocephalus, var? 

 Lathrobium punctulatum. 

 collare. 



spec, not described. 

 Cryptobium badium. 

 bicolor. 

 Sunius longiusculus. 

 Stenus egenus. 

 Oxytelus sculptus. 

 Trogophloeus not described. 

 Anthophagus caesus. 



near verticalis. 



Araphichroum laevicoUe n. sp. 

 Anthobium sp. 

 Hister americanus. 

 Olibrus nitidus. 

 Carpophilus brachypterus. 

 Epuraea not described. 

 Endectus hamatodes. 

 Philothermus glabriculus. 

 Clinidium conjungens. 

 Lathridius liratus. 

 Corticaria pumila. 



americana. 

 Litargus 4-spilotus. 

 Cytilus varius. 

 Platycerus quercus. 

 Onthophagus Hecate. 

 Aphodius n. sp. 

 Hoplia trifasciata. 

 Cremastochilus canaliculatus, 

 Throscus Chevrolatii. 

 Cryptohypnus planatus. 



pulchellus. 

 Elater nigricollis. 



luctuosus. 



fuscatus. 



rubricus. 

 Melanotus ingequsAis. 

 Limonius aurifer. 

 ectypus, 

 Sericosomus silaceus. 

 Prionocyphon discoideus. 

 Cyphon ruficollis and var. 

 pallipes. 

 modesta. 

 Photinus corruscus. 

 Podabrus punctatus. 



Pattoni n. sp. 

 Telephorus Carolina, 

 rectus, 

 tuberculatus. 

 Attalus flavilabris. 

 Clerus thoracicus. 

 Cis, sp. not determined, 

 Phellopsis obcordata. 

 Boletophagus depressus. 

 Paratenetus punctatus. 

 Corphyra terminalis. 

 Canifa pusilla. 

 Penthe obliquata. 

 Melandrya striata. 

 Anaspis flavipennis. 



rufa. 

 Mordella scapularis. 

 Asclera ruficollis. 

 Curculionidas not determined. 



* This is the ppncies which I have regarded asC. chlorophanus D''j. I am informed by 

 my frieatJ. Mr. Sall6, that the types of the latter belong to the western species known as C bo li- 

 t a r i u 8 Say. 



1866.] 




848 



PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Tomicua pyri. 

 Molorohus himnculatus. 

 Leptura rulicollis. 



spliJiM-icoUis. 

 Orsodacna Cliildrcni. 

 Chrysomela vulgatissima. 



(blue var.) 

 Haltica violacca MeU. 

 Diabrotica vittata. 



Gallcruca decora. 

 Kngis 4-maculata. 

 Dacnc heros. 

 Trifdux sanguinipennis. 

 Mycctina perpulchra. 

 Psyllobora 20-maculata. 

 Ilyperaspis clegans. 

 Scyninus lacustris. 



List of COLEOPTERA collected near Fort Whipple, Arizona, by Dr. Elliott 

 Coues, U. S. A., in 1864—66. 



BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M. D. 



At the request of Dr. Coues, it was my intention to prepare a catalogue of 

 the Coleoptera, thus far known from Arizona. On reflection, it seems to me 

 that such a list would be at present of but little value to entomologists ; partly 

 because all the species previously examined by me are mentioned in my memoir 

 on the Coleoptera of the U. S. and Mexican Boundary,-^ but still more, because 

 Dr. G. H. Horn, recently Surgeon of California Volunteers, having spent four 

 years in collecting through California and Arizona, has returned with much 

 new material. Any list of species now made would, therefore, soon be ren- 

 dered useless by the investigation of his collections. For these reasons I 

 have confined myself to a list of the species submitted to Mr. Ulke and myself 

 by Dr. Coues. The new species are described with others in the present num- 

 ber of the Proceedings. 



Amblychila cylindriformis. 

 Cicindela obsoleta (race /?). 



nigroccErulea. 



guttifera. 



punctulata var. 

 Calosoma carbonatum. 

 Lachnophorus elegantulus. 

 Discoderus impotens. 

 Tachys audax. 

 Acilius flavomaculatus. 

 Laccophilus truncatus. 

 Hydroporus striatellus. 

 Berosus punctatissimus. 



subsignatus. 

 Hydrocharis glaucus. 

 Silpha truncata. 

 Creophilus villosus. 

 Belonuchus formosus. 

 Philonthus flavolimbatus. 



inquietus. 

 Saprinus pratensis. 

 Tribrachys caudalis. 

 Trogosita n. sp ? 

 Lasconotus laqueatus n. sp. 

 Aulonium longum n. sp. 

 Dorcus? mazama. 

 Canthon indigaceus n. sp. 

 Ochodaeus simplex. 

 Trox punctatus. 



Macrodactylus angustatus. 

 Plusiotis gloriosa. 

 Cyclocephala manca n. sp. 

 Xyloryctes Satyrus. 

 Dynastes Tityus. 

 Strategus cessus n. sp. 

 Gyascutus sphenicus. 

 Ancylochira alternans. 

 Melanophila atropurpurea. 

 Acmaeodera amplicollis n. sp. 



decipiens n. sp. 

 Agrilus Couesii n. sp. 

 Chalcolepidius VVebbii. 

 Cryptohypnus inops. 

 Horistonotus simplex. 

 Photinus nigricans. 

 Chauliognathus scutellaris. 

 Pristoscelis convergens n. sp. 



atricornis n. sp. 

 Amphicerus punctipennis. 

 Eurymetopon abnorrae. 

 Epitragus n. sp. 

 Zophcrus n, sp. 

 Eleodes obscura. 



sulcata. 



obsoleta. 



extricata. 

 Embaphion contusum. 

 Blapstinus pubescens. 



'Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila.,2d ser , iv. 9, (1868). 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Cerenopus sulcipennis. Criocephalus sp. 



Hypophloeus parallelus. Sphenotheca suturalis. 



Sitophagus planus. Tylosis sellatus. 



Notoxus, two species. Elaphidion procerum. 

 Fentaria trifasciata. . ' tenue. 



Meloe sublajvis. Clytus sagittatus. 



Megetra cancellata. * ^thecerus Wilsoni Chevr. 



Epicauta maculata Arhopalus Wils. Horn. 



sericans. Clytus cinctus Chevr. 



ferruginea. ^Edilis spectabilis. 



Lytta biguttata. Tetraopes basalis. 



puberula. Oncideres sp. 



Tetraonyx fulva. Chrysomela dislocata. 



Nemognatha immaculata. Chrysoraelide not determined. 



Tanymecus lautus. Hippodamia convergcns. 

 Prionus californicus. 



349 



Eevision of the DASYTINI of the United States. 

 BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M. D. 



Having recently had occasion to examine all th e species of D a s y t i n i in 

 my collection, I have detected among specimens received since the publica- 

 tion of my previous memoir, in 1852, several undescribed species. In order 

 to fix more definitely the characters, not only of the new species, but of those 

 previously described, I have prepared a sketch of the genera and analytical 

 trtbles of the species before me. 



Much of the Pacific district yet remains unvisited by collectors, and a large 

 increase in the number of representatives of this tribe may be expected from 

 future explorations. 



In all the genera found in our territory, as far as known to me, the terminal 

 spurs of the anterior tibiae are very small. They may be tabulated a^ follows : 



A. First joint of tarsi not shorter than the second; 



(claws of tarsi equal in length, second and 

 third joints of tarsi not dilated, and last joint 

 of palpi not securiform in any of our genera): 



Anterior tibiae with an external row of spines Pristoscelis. 



Anterior tibiae without spines : 



Membranous appendages equal, nearly as long 



as the claws ; in great part connate Listrus. 



Appendages connate ; one long, the other shorter Dolichosoma. 



One appendage long, connate, the other denti- 

 form All onyx. 



Both appendages short, connate, usually denti- 

 form Dasy te s. 



Membranous appendages long, equal, free to the 



base Esehatocrepis. 



B. First joint of tarsi shorter than the second Melyris. 



On comparing this table with those of European genera, as given by 

 DuVal* and Kiesenwetter,f it will be seen that the characters here ascribed 

 to Listrus correspond with these of Lob onyx, and those of Eseha- 

 tocrepis with those of Haplocnemis. The differences will be men- 

 tioned under the respective genera. 



* Genera des Coleopt. d'Enrope. iii , 190. 

 t Insecten Deutscb lands, iv., 624- 



1866.] 




860 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



PRISTOSCELTS Lee. 



Under this nRtne I have grouped the species of North America, in which 

 the Riiterior tibiie are furnished with a distinct series of spines on the outer 

 margin. Important differences in pubescence and form exist among the spe- 

 cies, which have, so far as they were known to him, been distributed by 

 Motschulsky into genera, which he has naqjed Bijturonomus ((iroup I.), Tri- 

 chochrous (Group II.), and Emmenotarms (Group III.) In order to avoid a 

 chang? of gender in the specific names of the species thus far described, I 

 have arbitrarily made the generic name masculine, instead of feminine, ag 

 required by a strict adherence to classical construction. 



The following table expresses the relations between the species before me: 



I. Prothorax twice as wide as the head, pubescence 



prostrate, with a few intermixed longer 



erect hairs 1. fuscus. 



Prothorax scarcely one-half wider than the head : 



II. Pubescence prostrate without intermixed erect hairs : 



Legs entirely black : 



Sides of thorax broadly rounded : 



Pubescence fine 2. ater. 



Pubescence dense 3. oregonensis. 



Sides of thorax strongly rounded 4. laticollis. 



Legs brown or testaceous : 



Thorax quadrate, sides feebly rounded : antennae black ; 



Pubescence fine, femora darker 5. fulvitarsis. 



Pubescence coarse, femora and tibiae uniform 



in color 6. atricornis. 



Thorax narrowed in front, not transverse; legs rufous : 



Elytra nearly uniform in color 7. convergens. 



Elytra broadly margined with rufous 8. umbratus. 



Thorax transverse, narrowed in front 9. antennatus. 



Thorax transverse, sides strongly rounded; 



Elytra coarsely punctured v 10. brevicornis. 



Elytra finely punctured 11. erythropus. 



III. Pubescence intermixed with erect hairs : 

 a. Sides of thorax not distinctly serrate: 



Body above densely clothed with coarse brown bair: 



Pubescence short, antennae and feet black 12. br e vip ilo sus. 



Pubescence long, antennae and feet rufous 13. hirtellus. 



Pubescence long, antennae and feet black 14. sordid us. 



Body above with fine gray pubescence: 

 Antennae and legs black, body black : 



Thorax narrowed in front, sides feebly rounded... 15. suturalis. 

 Thorax not narrowed in front : 

 Sides feebly rounded, and 



distinctly sinuate behind \ 16. q ua d r i coll i s. 



not sinuate behind, hind angles distinct... 17. Tejonicns. 

 Sides moderately rounded, hind angles indistinct : 

 Head moderate : 



Elytra moderately punctured. 



Legs black | \l conform is. 



^ \ 19. squal 1 du s. 



Tibias and tarsi pale 20. cruralis. 



Elytra very coarsely punctured : 



Thorax transverse 21. aenescens. 



Thorax not wider than long 22. p un etipennig. 



Bead very large, not narrower than the 

 thorax 23. grandiceps. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Leprs rufous or testaceous, body black : 



Thorax finely sparsely punctured 24. pedalis. 



Thorax coarsely sparsely punctured 25. texanus. 



Black, elytra and legs rufous 26. ru fipennis. 



b. Sides of thorax distinctly serrate: 



Entirely black, elytra densely punctured 27. serrulatus. 



Black, elytra and legs rufous 28. s err ic ollis. 



Group I. Byturosomus Motsch. 



But one species of this group is known to me. It is of oblong oval form, 

 rather more robust than the other species ; the prothorax is twice as wide as 

 the head, and in the male is wider than the elytra; it is wider than long, 

 broadly rounded on the sides, and obliquely subsinuate each side at the base ; 

 the angles are all rounded. The pubescence of the thorax is less dense than 

 that of the elytra ; a few longer suberect hairs are intermixed with the pros- 

 trate ones. The front tibiaj are longer than usual, slender and slightly 

 curved in the male, and the row of small spines on the outer side is very 

 distinct. The appendages of the claws are broad, and connate with the claw; 

 the outer one is free for a very short distance. 



1. P. fuse us. Dasytes fuscus Lee. Pr. Ac. N. Sc, vi., 169. Byturosomus 

 griseus Motsch. Bull. Mosc. 1859, ii., 395. B. ruixpes Motsch. ibid. 



Vallecitas, San Diego County, California ; May. The differences between 

 the «exes are so great that unless found together they might be readily con- 

 sidered distinct species ; in the male the thorax is wider than the elytra, and 

 much less densely pubescent ; the elytra are gradually narrowed from the 

 base; the abdomen is composed of six ventral segments, and the front tibiae 

 are elongated, and curved inwards : in the female the body is not attenuated 

 behind, the thorax is as wide as the eljtra, gradually narrowed in front, and 

 densely pubescent ; the abdomen has but five ventral segments, and the ante- 

 rior tibite are not curved. In both sexes the fourth joint of the antennae is 

 narrower than the fifth, though somewhat triangular. 



Col. Motschulsky has by some accident interchanged the names of D. 

 fuscus and D. griseus Lee. Of the latter I had but a single specimen, 

 and was therefore unable to furnish him with a type; D. fuscus, on the 

 contrary, was collected by me in large numbers, and has been freely distri- 

 buted. 



Group II. Trichochrous Motsch. 



In this group the body is elongate, or elongate oval, the thorax not more 

 than one-half wider than the head; the pubescence is prostrate without any 

 intermixed hairs, though in some species (antennatus, brevicornis, 

 &c.) clothed with long and coarse pubescence, the hairs lie less closely on the 

 surface than in the others. The characters given in the synoptic table will 

 enable the species to be recognized without difficulty. 



2. P. ater. Pristoscelis atrus Bland. Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., iii., 253. 

 Abundant near San Francisco. This species differs from P. 1 a t i c o 1 1 i s 



by the larger size, by the thorax being more distinctly transverse, with the 

 sides less rounded, and the posterior angles more distinct, although obtuse; 

 the sides of the thorax, as in the next two, are fringed. 



3. P. Oregon en sis, elongatus, piceo-aeneus, dense cinereo-pubescens, 

 thorace longitudine sesqui latiore, lateribus fimbriatis late rotundatis, apice 

 late emarginata, basi late rotundata, angulis anticis subacutis, posticis obtu- 

 sis baud rotundatis, disco subtiliter sat dense punctato ; elytris hiodice con- 

 vexis, confertim subtiliter punctatis; subtus nigricans, antennis palpisqu© 

 nigris, tibiis tarsisque picescentibus. Long. 3-5 — 4 mm. 



Oregon, aod at Fort Crook, California, Dr. G. H. Horn, This species ie 



1866.] 




352 PllOCEEDINQS OF TUE ACADEMY OF 



related to P. ntc r, but differs by the form of the thorax, and by the pubes- 

 cence being more dense, and less fine ; from P. 1 a t i c o 1 1 i s it dillers by the 

 thorax being much less rounded on the sides, more emarginatc at the apex, 

 causing the anterior angles to be quite distinct, and the hind ones less ob- 

 tuse. 



4. P. 1 at i col lis. Dasytes laiicollia Mann. Bull. Mosc, 1843, 247. 

 California, near San Francisco. I am indebted to Col. Motschulsky for a 



t.ype of this species ; other specimens were found by Mr. G. Davidson at Cape 

 Keyes. The tho^^ix is wider than long, much rounded on the sides, equally 

 narrowed at base and apex, with the hind angles indistinct. 



5. P. fulvitarsis Bland, Vroc^ni. Soc. Phila., iii., 254. 



Middle California, Mr. Ulke. A slender species, still smaller than the pre- 

 ceding, with the thorax scarcely wider than long, fringed with long hairs on 

 the sides, which are broadly rounded, and with the hind angles distinct, ob- 

 tuse. The antennae are black, and the legs testaceous, with the thighs some- 

 what darker. In the male the sixth ventral segment is visible ; the fifth joint 

 of the antennre in both sexes is wider than the sixth, and the fourth joint is 

 triangular, rather broader than long. 



6. P. atricornis, elongatus, nigro-aeneus, pube cinerea minus subtili 

 dense vestitus, capite subtiliter baud dense punctato ; thorace capite paulo 

 latiore, convexo modice punctato, latitudine loogiore, antrorsum subangus- 

 tato, lateribus paulo rotundatis pilis longioiibus fimbriatis, basi rotundata, 

 angulis posticis rotundatis ; elytris thorace vix latioribus, convexis, sat dense 

 punctatis, transversim subrugosis, margine lateral! pilis longioribus fimbri- 

 ato ; antennis nigris, pedibus rufo-testaceis. Long. 4 mm. 



Fort Whipple, Arizona, Dr. E. Cones, U. S. A. The antennae are as long as 

 the head and thorax ; the third joint is slender, and longer than the fourth, 

 which is somewhat triangular; the fifth is not wider than the sixth ; the 

 eleventh is one-half longer than the tenth, oval and subacute at tip. This 

 Species in color resembles P. fulvitarsis, but is much larger, with the 

 thorax slightly narrowed in front, and the legs of a uniform bright reddish- 

 yellow. The anterior tibiue on the outer margin are armed with 5-7 small 

 spines. 



7. P. convergens, elongatus seneo-fuscus, nigricans, pube subhelva 

 minus subtili dense vestita, capite parce punctulato ; thorace capite paulo lati- 

 ore, convexo modice punctato, latitudine longiore, antrorsum sensim angus- 

 tato, lateribus paulo rotundatis, basi cum angulis posticis rotundata ; ely- 

 tris thorace vix latioribus, convexis sat dense punctatis et transv*ersim ru- 

 gosis, humeris, indeterminate rufescentibus ; ore, antennis pedibasque rufo- 

 teetaceis. Long. 4 mm. 



One specimen from Fort Whipple, Arizona, Dr. Cones. This species closely 

 resembles the preceding in size, form and sculpture, but the pubescence is 

 yellowish, and the antennae and oral organs are not black but reddish-yellow. 

 The color is brownish black, with a faint metallic tinge, and the humeri are 

 distinctly reddish-brown. The antennae are but little longer than the head, 

 the third joint is slender, not longer than the fourth, which is triangular 

 and nearly equal to the fifth, which is not wider than the sixth ; the tenth, 

 as usual, is oval, acute, and longer than the preceding. 



8. P. umbratus, elongatus, fusco-aeneus, sat dense minus subtiliter 

 cinereo-pubescens, pilis vix longioribus concoloribus intermixtis, thorace lati- 

 tudine paulo breviore, antrorsum sensim angustato, lateribus parum, basi 

 magis rotundatis, apice hand emarginata, angulis obtusis, puree subtiliter 

 punctato ; elytris ferrugineis sutura late infuscata, sat dense punctatis ; abdo- 

 minis apice pedibusque laete ferrugineis, antennis palpisque piceis, vel nigris. 

 Long. 2 5 mm. 



[Deo. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Mas segmento ventrali sexto prorainulo, profunde foveato. 



Two males, Fort Crook, California, Dr. G. H. Horn. It resembles in form 

 P. convergens, but that species is much larger and uniformly pubes- 

 cent, whereas in the present species the coarse pubescence on the elytra is 

 intermixed with somewhat longer suberect hairs of the same color ; the long 

 erect hairs observed on the head and thorax of the species of the next divi- 

 sion are wanting, and I have therefore regarded it as properly placed next to 

 P. convergens. 



9. P. antennatus. Trichochrous ant. Motsch. Bull. Mosc. 1859, ii. 394. 

 Dasytes griseus Lee, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phil., vi. 169. 



One specimen found by me at San Diego, Cal. ; others from the plains near 

 the Rocky Mountains were given me by Mr. Ulke. This species is easily re- 

 cognized by the thorax being broader than long, gradually but strongly 

 narrowed in front, with the sides feebly rounded, and the hind angles obtusely 

 rounded ; the elytra are coarsely punctured, and clothed with long brownish 

 pubescence; the antennae are piceous, somewhat paler at base; the fifth joint 

 is obviously wider than the sixth in the female, and the feet are ferruginous ; 

 The last ventral segment of the male is longitudinally broadly impressed, a 

 character I have not observed in any other species of the present group. 



10. P. brevicornis. Dasyies 6r. Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil., vi. 169. 

 San Diego and Middle California. The pubescence is coarse, and the sides 



fringed with very long hairs ; the thorax is broader than long, equally nar- 

 rowed at base and apex, with the sides much rounded ; the elytra are coarsely 

 and more densely punctured than in the preceding; the antennae are piceous, 

 sometimes nearly testaceous at base ; the third joint is scarcely narrower 

 than the fourth. 



11. P. erythropus. Dasytes erythropus Lee, Tr. Acad. Nat. Sc, vi. 170. 

 Texas. The pubescence is coarse and dense, and the sides of the thorax 



somewhat serrate ; the spines of the anterior tibiae are small, and not very 

 distinct, so that this species might readily be referred to Listrus. Its 

 natural affinity seems to be, however, with the preceding, from which it dif- 

 fers by the narrower form, by the thorax being more strongly rounded on the 

 sides, with the base not at all wider than the apex, and by the much less 

 coarse punctuation of the elytra. 



Group III. Emmenotarsus Motsch. 



The species of this group resemble in form those of the preceding, but 

 differ in having long, erect, black hairs intermingled with the finer prostrate 

 pubescence ; inbrevipilosus, however, the erect hairs are gray, and but 

 little longer than the pubescence, so that without careful examination they 

 might be overlooked. The row of spines on the outer margin of the anterior 

 tibiae is more conspicuous than in most of the species of the preceding group. 

 The sixth ventral segment of the males is visible and concave beneath. 



12. P. b r e V i p i 1 o s u s, elongatus convexns, fusco-niger, aenescens, pube 

 sordidabreviuscula dense vestitus, capite thoraceque parce punctulatis pilis 

 longis erectis intermixtis, hoc latitudine breviore antrorsum baud angustato 

 base valde, lateribus late rotundatis, angulisposticis obtusis parum distinctis ; 

 elytris thorace baud latioribus sat dense punctatis, pilis erectis brevibus inter- 

 mixtis vix conspicuis, margine laterali pilis longioribus fimbriato. Long. 4 mm. 



Middle California. A species of more cylindrical form than usual, and 

 easily known by the intermixed hairs of the elytra being of the same color as 

 the pubescence, and scarcely longer than it. 



13. P. hirtellus, modice elongatus, fusco-seneus, pube sordida longa 

 densissim« vestitus. pilisque elongatis erectis intermixtis. Capite thoraceque 

 punctulatis, hoc latitudine breviore, antrorsum sensim angustato, basi valde, 



1866.] 23 




ft64 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



lateribns late rotnndat.is, angulis posticis rotundatis baud distinctis ', elytrig 

 thoraoe paulo latiorlbus, sat dense punctatis ; antennis palpis pedibusque 

 ferrugineis. Long. 4 mm. 



Cape San Lucas, Lower California, collected by Mr. Xtlntus. In the male 

 the head i? but little narrower than the thorax, the antenna) are longer than 

 tlie brad and thorax, strongly serrate, with the third joint triangular, not 

 narrower than the fourth or fifth ; in the female the thorax is about one-half 

 wider than the head, the antennje are shorter than the head and thorax, 

 moderately serrate, with the third joint narrow, and the fourth triangular, but 

 not as wide as the fifth. The intermixed erect hairs are of the same color as 

 the pubescence, but much longer. 



14. P. s o r d i d u s. Dasytes sordidus Lee., Proc. Acad. Nat, Sc. Pbila., vi. 

 169. 



San Diego, California. The pubescence is as coarse as in the preceding^ 

 and the intermixed hairs as long, but the thorax ia considerably rounded on 

 the sides, and not narrowed anteriorly j and the antennae palpi and legs are 

 black. • 



15. P. s u tu rail s. Dasijtes siit. Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Pbila., vi. 169. 

 San Diego, California. The pubescence is cinereous, and fine, more dense 



at the suture, sides and tip of the elytra, which are more finely and densely 

 (punctulated than in the allied species; the thorax is narrowed from the base 

 to the tip, the sides very feebly rounded and slightly serrate, the base broadly 

 rounded, and the hind angles Avell marked, and somewhat obtuse. The elytra 

 in the male are not wider than the thorax at base, and gradually narrowed 

 behind. The third joint of the antennae is scarcely triangular, the fourth is 

 slightly dilated, but not so wide as the fifth. The female only differs from 

 the male by the elytra not being narrowed from the base, and by the anten- 

 nae being a little shorter. 



16. P. q uad r 1 c ol 1 i 3. Dasytes quadr. Lee, Froc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Pbila., 

 ,1859, 75. 



Fort Tejon, Cal., Mr. Xan^us. Easily recognized by the thorax being quad- 

 rate, with the sides scarcely rounded, subsinuate behind, with the posterior 

 angles rectangular, not rounded ; the base is broadly rounded, as in the pre- 

 ceding species. 



17 P. tejon ic us, elongatus, niger, aenescens, pube longiuscula minus 

 subtili sat dense vestitus, pilis longis nigris erectis intermixtis, capite thorace- 

 que parce punctulato, hoc latitudine breviore, subquadrato antrorsum baud 

 angustato, lateribns late rotundatis, basi rotundata, angulis posticis obtusis 

 baud rotundatis; elytris thorace latioribus, sat dense punctatis, pedibus saepe 

 nigro-piceis. Long. 2-5 — 4 mm. 



Port Tejon, California, Mr. Xantus. The pubescence is coarser than in the 

 neighboring species, but less so than in P. sordidus. It differs from P. 

 q u ad r i c olli s by the sides of the thorax not being sinuate behind, and 

 from P. conformis, &c., by the more distinct hind angles and less rounded 

 sides. The feet in several of the specimens before me are dark brownish. 



18. P. conformis. Dasytes conf. Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, vi. 169. 



San Diego. The pubescence is gray, and not very fine, and in some speci- 

 mens is denser at the suture and sides of the elytra, as in P. s u turalis. 

 The sides .of the thorax are strongly rounded, and the hind angles indistinct ; 

 the elytra are not wider than the thorax and the punctures are finer than in 

 P. aenescens, and about asinquadricollis and Tejonicus. 



.19. P. s qualidu s. Dasytes sq. Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., vi. 169. 

 .Differs from the types of P. conformis only by the gray pubescence 

 b&ing more dense, and the sides of the thorax a little less rounded, and by 

 . the smaller size. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 355 



20. P. cruralis, elongatus fusco-aeneus, pube minus subtili cinerea 

 vestitus, pilis brevibus concolonbus intermixtis, capite thoraceque sat dense 

 subtilius punctatis, hoc latitudine sesqui breviore lateribus et angulis fortiter 

 rotundatis, basi late rotundata ; eljtris subtilius punctatis; antenuis palpis 

 femoribusque nigris, tibiis tarsisque iiavo-testaceis. Long. 2-5 mm. 



Two specimens, Oregon, Dr. G. H. Horn ; the sixth ventral eegment is visi- 

 ble in each, and is not impressed. This species is very similar to P. s q u a 1 i - 

 d u s, but the erect hairs are much shorter, and of the same color as the pube- 

 scence, and the tibiae and tarsi are pale. 



21. P. aenescens. Dasytes sen. Lec.^ Vroc-. Acad. Nat, Sc, vi. 170. 



San Diego and the Islands off Santa Barbara. The pubescence is very fine, 

 and the intermixed black hairs numerous ; the thorax is a little wider than 

 long, more rounded on the sides than in the preceding, but with the hind 

 angles somewhat distinct; the elytra are a little wider than the thorax, and 

 much more coarsely punctured than in the allied species, 



22. P. p u n c ti p e n n i s, elongatus, niger nitidus gubaenescens, pube 

 cinerea subtili vestitus, (pilis nigris erectis intermixtis?) capite thoraceque 

 parc« punctulatis, hoc latitudine vix breviore, lateribus rotundatis, basi ro- 

 tundata, angulis posticis obtusis parum distinctis; elytris thorace vix latiori- 

 bus parcius profunde punctatis. Long. 2-25 mm. 



Santa Catalina Island, California; five specimens in bad condition. Much 

 smaller than P. aenescens, with the thorax less transverse, and the sides 

 gradually converging, and less rounded before the middle. 



The erect hairs are nearly all rubbed off in the specimens before me, but I 

 think that the species belongs to the present group. 



23. P. grandiceps, elongatus, aeneo-niger, pube subtili cinerea minus 

 dense vestitus, pilis nigris erectis intermixtis, capite magno, antice depress© 

 Isevi, inter oculos convexo parce punctulato, pone oculos punctato ; thorace 

 capite paulo angustiore, latitudine sesqui breviore, apice truncato, basi late 

 rotundata, lateribus modice rotundatis, angulis posticis obtusis indistinctis ; 

 elytris thorace vix latioribus, sat dense profunde punctatis. Long. 5 mm. 



Middle California ; one specimen given me by Mr. Uike. As usual, the 

 under surface is densely clothed with cinereous hair; the large size of the 

 head enables this species to be recognized at first sight. 



24. P. p e d a 1 i 8, elongatus, nigro-aeneus^ pube subtili cinerea sparse 

 vestitus, pilis nigris erectis intermixtis; capite thoraceque parce punctulatis, 

 hoc latitudine breviore, lateribus rotundatis, basi late rotundata, angulis pos- 

 ticis obtusis fere indistinctis ; elytris thorace baud latioribus, fortiter puncta- 

 tis et transversim subrugosis ; antennarum articulis 2 — 4 piceis, pedibus fer- 

 rugineis vel piceis. Long. 3-5 — 4 mm. 



Santa Catalina Island, California. This species has the usual form, the 

 thorax being more than one-third wider than the head, and resembles in ap- 

 pearance P. Tejonicus^ it is distinguished by the red or brown feet, and 

 the more strongly rounded sides of the thorax. In the specimens with dark 

 feet the tibiae and tarsi are paler than the femora, which are sometimes 

 nearly black; such specimens may be distinguished from P. conformis 

 by the finer cinereous pubescence and the more strongly punctured elytra, 

 and from P. aenescens by the thorax being as wide as the elytra. 



25. P. texanus, elongatus, nigro-aeneus, pube cinerea elongata minus 

 subtili laxe vestitus, pilis longis nigris erectis intermixtis, capite thoraceque 

 minus subtiliter punctatis, hoc latitudine breviore, lateribus fortiter rotunda- 

 tis, basi late rotundata, medio subemarginata, angulis posticis obtusis rotun- 

 datis ; elytris fortiter punctatis, antennis piceis, articulis 2 — 4 pallidioribus, 

 pedibus ferrugineis. Long. 3-5 mm. 



Two specimens^ Texas. Differs from all the preceding species of this group 



1866.] 




S56 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



by the stronger punctuation of the head and thorax. The form is about the 

 aaiue as that of tlie preceding; the antennae are shorter than the head and 

 thorax, with the third joint slender, and the fourth not as wide as the fifth. 



26. P. r u f i p e n n i 8. Daaytes ruf. Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1858, 

 71. 



Arizona, Mr. Schott, one specimen. Much larger (6 mm.) than any of the 

 preceding, and remarkably different, by the elytra being rufous, and as finely 

 punctured as in P. suturalis. The thorax is equably, tolerably strongly 

 punctured, very little narrower than the elytra, wider than long, much rounded 

 on the sides, broadly rounded at base, with the hind angles obtuse, rounded 

 and not distinct. The scutellum and a small portion of the suture are black. 

 The erect hairs an-d pubescence are in great part wanting, but enough re- 

 mains to show that both are cinereous. The feet are rufous, and the anterior 

 tibife are armed with a very distinct row of spines on the outer side. The 

 antennae are wanting in the unique specimen before me. 



27. P. serricoUis, niger nitidus, pube pallida parca elongata vestitus, 

 pilis erectis nigris pallidisque intermixtis, capite modice punctato, thorace 

 rotundato, convexo, fortiter, medio parce punctato, lateribus denticulatis, basi 

 latins rotundata; elytris thorace baud latioribus fortiter sat dense punctatis, 

 rufo-testaceis ; antennis nigro-piceis pedibus rufis. Long. 5-5 mm. 



Two males, New Mexico and Colorado. The sixth ventral segment is not 

 excavated. Of the same size as P. r u f i p e n n i s, but quite distinct by the 

 form of the thorax, which is but little wider than its length, very much 

 rounded at the sides and apex, and more broadly rounded at the base, with 

 the bind angles not very distinct. The sides are strongly serrate, especially 

 in front of the middle. The black hairs are long on the thorax, but on the 

 elytra the pubescence is intermixed with pale erect hairs, only a few black 

 ones being seen. 



27. P. serrulatus, nigro-virescens subnitidus, pube brevi albida minus 

 dense vestitus, pilis erectis nigris intermixtis, capite thoraceque modice punc- 

 tatis, hoc latitudine paulo breviore, antrorsura angustato, apice rotundato, 

 basi late rotundata, angulis posticis baud distinctis, lateribus serrulatis late 

 rotundatis ; elytris sat dense punctatis, transversim subrugosis ; antennis 

 nigro-piceis, ad thoracis medium extensis, extrorsum incrassatis, femoribus 

 piceis, tibiis tarsisque testaceis. Long, 4 mm. 



Arizona, Dr. Irwin, U. S. A. The joints of the antennae 4 — 10 are gradu- 

 ally wider and obtusely rounded at tip. The spines on the outer margin of 

 the anterior tibiae are distinct, but less prominent than in the preceding 

 species. 



LISTRUS Motsch. 



The chief difference between this genus and the preceding is to be found 

 in the anterior tibise, which have not any spines on the outer margin. The 

 appendages of the claws are broad, as long as the claws themselves and connate 

 with them almost to the tip ; in this as well as in the form of the palpi and 

 antennae it agrees with Pristoscelis ; the thorax is scarcely one half wider 

 than the head, and is always serrate and fimbriate at the sides ; the pubes- 

 cenc« is uniform in texture, without any intermixed erect hairs. 



The characters correspond with those ascribed to the European genus 

 Lobonyx, in the works of DuVal and Kiesenwetter, except that the antennae 

 are distinctly serrate, with the eleventh joint oval and not constricted at the 

 middle. 



The sexual characters are not observed in the anterior tarsi as in Lobo- 

 nyx, but in the fifth and sixth ventral segments, which are more or less fove- 

 ftte or excavated in the male. 



The species in my collection may be separated as follows : 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Elytra with denuded spots or bands : 

 Feet black : 



Thorax wider than long, narrowed in front : 



Elytra with denuded fasciae 1. Motschulskii. 



Elytra with denuded spots 2. interruptus. 



Thorax not wider than long: 

 Pubescence long; 



Bands of elytra angulated 3. canescens. 



Bands of elytra transverse 4. difficilis. 



Pubescence very short, denuded spots 



indistinct 5. r o t u n d i c o 1 li s. 



Feet testaceous 6. 1 ut e i p es. 



Elytra uniformly pubescent, without denuded spots : 

 Feet black; thorax not transverse: 



Pubescence fine and short 7. obscurellus. 



Pubescence long and dense 8. senilis. 



1. L. Motschulskii, elongatus, aeneo-niger, pilis pallidis longis seri- 

 ceis irregulariter vestitus, maculis denudatis variegatus, thorace latitudine 

 breviore, antrorsum angustato, apice truncato, lateribus valde rotundatis ser- 

 ratis, basi fortiter rotundata; elytris thorace vix latioribus fortiter punctatis, 

 transversim subrugosis, fasciis curvatis denudatis ornaUs ; antennis pedibus- 

 que nigris. Long. 4 ram. 



Dasytes cavescensl Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., vi. 170. 



Middle California, abundant; Oregon. I take pleasure in naming this 

 species after Col. Motschulsky, who has mentioned, Bull. Mosc. 1859, 391, the 

 error I committed in referring it to the species described by Mannerheim. It 

 differs by the more robust form, larger size, more transverse thorax and more 

 densely punctured elytra. 



In the male the sixth ventral segment is prominent, but not excavated, the 

 fifth is not excavated. In the female the sixth ventral segment is not visible. 



2. L. interruptus, elongatus aeneo-niger, pilis pallidis longis sericeis 

 irregulariter vestitus, thorace latitudine paulo breviore, antrorsum angustato, 

 apice truncato, lateribus valde rotundatis serratis, basi fortiter rotundata; 

 elytris thorace paulo latioribus, fortiter punctatis, transversim subrugosis, 

 fasciis denudatis interruptis ornatis; antennis pedibusque nigris, illisarticulo 

 2ndo piceo. Long. 3-75 mm. 



One pair, Nebraska, Mr. Ulke ; one specimen, Santa Cruz Island, Califor- 

 nia, Mr. C. M. Bache. I should hesitate to consider this as distinct from the 

 preceding, but for the sexual characters. The fifth ventral segment of the 

 male is broadly emarginate, clothed behind with velvety black hairs, and the 

 sixth segment is prominent and concave. 



The only differences I can find between this and L. Motschulskii are : 

 the thorax is a little more convex and less transverse, the elytra comparatively 

 a little wider, and the denuded fasciae are interrupted so as to form spots ; 

 and the second joint of the antennae is piceous. 



3. L. canescens Motsch., Bull. Mosc. 1859, ii. 391. Dasytes can. Mann., 

 Bull. Mosc. 1843, 247. 



Middle California; for authentic types of this species I am indebted to Col. 

 Motschulsky. The thorax is nearly round, serrate on the sides, the denuded 

 bands of the elytra are not interrupted into spots, and the antennae are 

 entirely black. The fifth ventral segment of the male is deeply excavated, 

 emarginate and clothed behind with black velvety hair, the sixth segment is 

 prominent and concave The antennae are described by Mannerheim as rufo- 

 testaceous at base, but they are entirely black in the specimens sent by Col. 

 Motschulsky. 



1866.] 




868 PROOEEDINOS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



4. L. d i f f i c i 1 i s. Dasi/ten diff. Lee, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sc. Pbila., vi. 170. 

 San Jose, California. This species is narrower than L. Motschulskii 



or 1 n t er r u p t u s, and of the same form as the preceding, from which it 

 ditfors by the hand behind the middle of the elytra being broad and scarcely 

 angulated. The sixth ventral segment is visible in both sexes, but in the 

 male the fifth is marked with a deep rounded medial fovea. 



5. L. rotundicollis. /)as///e« ro<. Lee, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., vi. 170. 

 San Jose, California. Differs from all the preceding by the pubescence 



being much shorter and less unequally distributed, so that the spots on 

 the elytra become obsolete. The thorax is scarcely wider than long, narrowed 

 in front, moderately rounded and serrate on the sides, broadly rounded at the 

 base; the elytra are slightly wider than the thorax, and somewhat more 

 coarsely punctured than in the foregoing species. The sixth ventral segment 

 is visible in both sexes, but in the male the fifth segment is excavated nearly 

 to the base, and the excavation is fringed with black velvety hairs, and the 

 sixth segment is depressed in the middle. 



6. L. luteipes. Dnytes lut. Lee., Pr. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., vi. 170. 

 Southern portion of California; San Diego, Fort Tejon. The feet and 



antennae are ferruginous, the outer joints of the former are fuscous. The 

 thorax is as long as its width, moderately rounded at the sides, which are 

 serrate as usual ; the elytra are a little wider than the thorax, strongly punc- 

 tured, with the spots near the base smaller, and the transverse bands wider 

 than in the other species ; the pubescence is long and coarse. I observe no 

 sexual character in the four specimens in my collection. 



7. L. obscurellus. i>asv<e* o6«c. Lee, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Pbila., vi. 170. 

 One specimen, San Diego ; a strongly punctured species, very short hoary 



pubescence ; the thorax is rounded, convex and finely serrate at the sides ; 

 the elytra are wider than the thorax and more convex than usual. The des- 

 cription of L. punctatus Motsch., 1. cit. 390, agrees with my specimen, 

 except that the antennae and feet are entirely black ; while in the description 

 cited the second and fourth joints of the antennae, the tip of the tibiae, and the 

 tarsi are stated to be " plus minusve testaceo-piceis." 



8. L. senilis. Dasytes senilis Lee, Proe Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., vi. 170, 

 Kansas, New Mexico, Texas. The sixth ventral segment is visible in both 



sexes ; the fifth in the male is feebly truncate, with a narrow fringe of velvety 

 black hair behind at the middle. 



DOLICHOSOMA Stephens. 



I refer to this genus two species in which one claw is furnished with a 

 connate appendage as long as itself, and free only at the tips, and the other 

 with a short appendage, rounded at tip, leaving the outer half of the claw 

 free. The second species shows a character not observed in any Pristosc^lis 

 or Listrus ; the thorax each side about half way between the middle and the 

 lateral margin is marked with a distinct longitudinal line. 



1. D. fov eicollis. Dasj/tes foveicollis Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. iv. 243. 

 Nebraska, near the Rocky Mountains, and northwards. A slender, dark 



blue species of large size, having the third joint of the antennae triangular, 

 and nearly as large as the fourth, which is equal to the fifth. The pubescence 

 is very fine, cinereous and sparse, intermixed with erect black hairs. The 

 sixth ventral segment is prominent in both sexes; the fifth is broadly emargi- 

 nate at tip, and excavated in the male, the excavation being bounded by an 

 elevated ridge each side. 



2. D. n i g r i c o rn i s. Pristoscelis nigr. Bland, Pr. Ent. Soe Phila. 

 Kansas and Nebraska, Mr. Ulke. A small species of blackish bronze color, 



[D 



ec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 859 



clothed with prostrate cinereous hair^ the thorax is more than one-half wider 

 than long, and considerably rounded at the sides, which are distinctly ser- 

 rate ; the antennae, are black, with the third and fourth joints triangular, but 

 a little narrower than the fifth. The thighs are piceous, the tibise and tarsi 

 paler. I should have referred this species to L i s t r u s, but for the fact that 

 the appendage of the outer claws is as long as the claw itself, and entirely 

 connate, while that of the inner claw is about two-thirds as long, obtusely 

 rounded at tip, leaving the tip of the claw free. 



ALLONYX Lee. 



This gpnus agrees in character with Dolichosoma, except that the outer 

 claw is slender, with a feeble dentiform dilatation at base: the inner claw is 

 furnished with a broad obtusely rounded appendage connate almost to 

 the point of the claw* in the first species, and entirely masking the point in 

 the second. The mandibles are acute at tip. The antennae are shorter than 

 the head and thorax, feebly serrate, with the third and fourth joints nearly 

 cylindric^, and narrower than the fifth. The thorax is marked with a deeply 

 impressed transverse line near the base, which bends forward each side, and 

 extends to the apex, forming thus a longitudinal furrow, about one-third dis- 

 tance from the lateral margin. The sixth ventral segment is prominent and 

 impressed in both of the specimens before me. 



1. A. sculp til is Zee, Class. Col. North America, 193. Dasytes sculp tills 

 Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada., 1859, 75. 



One specimen. Fort Tejon, California; Mr. Xantus, The pubescence is 

 very fine and sparse; the thorax transverse, not narrowed in front, sides 

 rounded in front, sinuate behind, with the hind angles rectangular and pro- 

 minent. The elytra are nearly parallel on the sides, and the tip is broadly 

 rufo-testaceous ; the antennae, palpi and legs are ruto-testaceous, the hind 

 femora blackish at tip ; the palpi are also blackish at tip ; the inner claw is 

 free at tip. Somewhat resembles a small Trogosita in appearance. 



2. A. plumbeus, elongatus, plumbeo-niger, opacus, pube cinerea 

 longa depressa dense vestitus, capite piano punctulato, sulculo supraocular! 

 brevi insculpto ; thorace capite paulo latiore, latitudine vix breviore, a basi 

 antrorsum subangustato, apice truncalo, lateribus subsinuatis, basi medio 

 truncata, utrinque oblique sinuata, angulis posticis rectis, alutaceo et punctu- 

 lato, linea profunda utrinque versus latera insculpto: elytris postice paulo 

 dilatatis, confertim punctulatis, pone basin oblique profunde impressis; labro, 

 antennarum mandibularumque basi, pedibusque ferrugineis, palpis totis ni- 

 gris ; ungue interno apice baud libero. Long. -16. 



One specimen from Colorado, given me by Dr. S. Lewis. Quite different in 

 appearance from the preceding. It is possible that dissection would indicate 

 a relationship between this genus and Danacea of the other continent; 

 but the want of sufiicient material prevents me from making the investiga- 

 tion. 



DASYTES Fabr. 



In this genus are to be included the following species, which, although 

 differing in appearance, agree in having the tarsal claws similar in form, 

 acute at tip, and armed with a basal dilatation, or a rounded lobe shorter 

 than the claw itself. The sixth ventral segment is prominent in both sexes. 

 Our species may be arranged as follows : 

 Thorax with a deeply impressed lateral line. 



Basal dilatation two-thirds as long as the claws 1. hudsonic us. 



Basal dilatation one-half as long as the claws 2. b r ev i u s c u lus. 



• By a typ )g:raphical error ia the table of gsnera (Class. Col. N. Am., 193) the appendage of the 

 claw is descrihei as •' narrow, and free almost to the base." The line defining A 11 o n y x should 

 not have been indented, 



1866,] 




860 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Thornx without lateral lines ; basal dilatation of claws 



dentiform : 



Klytra with denuded black bands 3. 8 e m i n u d u s. 



Elytra equably pubescent : 



Sides of thorax broadly rounded 4. p u s 11 1 u s. 



^ides of thorax strongly rounded 5. catalinse. 



1. D. h u d s n i c u s, elongatus, ater, pube subtili cinerea parce vestitus, 

 pilis brevibus erectis nigris intennixtis, capite subopaco rugose punctato ; 

 thorace subtilius punctato, latitudine breviore, a basi antrorsum angustato, 

 apice truncato, lateribus subbisinuatis, basi late rotundata, angulis posticia 

 rectis, linea arcuata utrinque profunda impressa, ad basin ambiente minus 

 profunda; elytris thorace paulo latioribus, subtiliter punctatis et traj.sversira 

 subrugosis. Long. 4 ram. 



One male collected in Hudson Bay Territory by Mr. R. Kennicott, given me 

 by Mr. Ulke. The antennae are as long as the head and thorax ; the second 

 joint is as long as the third ; the third is narrower than the fourth^hich is 

 triangular and equal to the fifth. The ungues at the base are dilated into an 

 obtuse rounded lobe, which leaves only one-third of the claw free. The sixth 

 ventral segment is prominent, and deeply excavated. 



This species would be quite as well placed in Group III of P r i s t o s c e 1 i s, 

 except that no spines are visible on the outer side of the anterior tibiae; the 

 general appearance, as well as the sculpture of the thorax, indicate an affinity 

 with the next species, from which it differs by the finer punctuation and pu- 

 bescence, and by the sides of the thorax being slightly bisinuate, feebly an- 

 gulated at the middle, and not serrate. 



2. D. breviusculus Motsch., Bull. Mosc. 1859, ii. 396. 



One female, California ; given me by Mr. A. Murray. My specimen differs 

 from that described by Col. Motschulsky in having the antennae and feet of a 

 uniform black color; but as will be seen in the descriptions of other species 

 of this tribe, these characters are not constant, and I therefore consider the 

 specimen before me as belonging to his species. The pubescence is coarser 

 than in the preceding, and the black hairs are not very obvious ; the thorax 

 is more sparsely and quite finely punctured at the middle, and more rugosely 

 at the sides, which are broadly rounded and slightly serrate ; the elytra are 

 less finely punctured; the ungues are armed with a lobe, which is obliquely 

 truncate at tip, and leaves one-half of the claw free. 



Two specimens from Nebraska, given me by Mr. Ulke, differ from the Cali- 

 fornian specimen by the sparse punctures of the middle of the thorax being 

 less fine. I am unwilling to regard them as indicating a distinct species. 



3. D. s e m i n u d u s, elongatus, niger, pube cinerea vestitus, capite tho- 

 raceque, sat dense subtilius punctatis, hoc latitudine sesqui breviore, convexo, 

 lateribus rotundatis subserratis, fimbriatis, basi late rotundata, angulis pos- 

 ticis obtusis ; elytris subtilius punctatis, transversim subrugosis, basi an- 

 guste, fascia media lata apiceque densius cinereo-pubescentibus ; pedibus 

 nigro piceis, unguibus dente lato armatis, dimidio externo liberis. Long. 

 2-5 mm. 



Variat antennarum articulis 2 et 3, tibiisque piceo testaceis vel piceis. 



Two females from Middle California, in the collection of Mr. Ulke, are be- 

 fore me ; in one the antennae and feet are almost black, in the other the second 

 and third joints of the antennae and the tibiae are much paler. 



4. D. p u s i 1 1 u s Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vi. 170. 



San Diego, California; a small coarsely pubescent species, having the tho- 

 rax nearly twice as wide as its length, moderately rounded and finely serrate 

 on the sides ; the elytra are coarsely punctured ; the second, third and fourth 

 joints of the antennae and the legs are ferruginous in one specimen ; but in 

 three others the antennae are entirely black, and the feef, especially the hind 

 thighs, are dark. 



r^ec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Several badly preserved specimens from Sta. Catalina Island agree in sculp- 

 ture, but the sides of the thorax are much more rounded, the legs are nearly 

 black, and the elytra are less coarsely punctured. It is a little smaller, being 

 1-6 mm. long. It may be named D. c a t a 1 i n as. 



The dilatation of the claws in both species is broad, and about half as long 

 as the claw. 



ESCHATOCREPIS Lee. 



In this genus the appendages of the claws are as long as the claws, narrow, 

 rounded at tip, and free quite to the base. In this respecl it agrees with the 

 European genus Haplocnemis, but differs by the antennae being scarcely 

 serrate, gradually thickened externally, with the fifth joint, as in several spe- 

 cies of Pristoscelis, slightly wider than the contiguous joints. 



The thorax is not wider than long, feebly rounded oq the sides from the 

 base nearly to the tip, where they are slightly sinuate, thus rendering the 

 anterior angles somewhat prominent ; the disc is feebly channelled, and 

 marked each side with a deep impressed line extending from the tip to the 

 base. 



1. E. constrictus Zee, Class. Col. North America, 193. Dasytes con- 

 strictus Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., vi. 170. 



Variat pedibus obscuris : Listrus constricollis Motsch., Bull. Mosc, 1859, 

 ii. 390. 



San Diego, and Fort Tejon, California. The fifth ventral segment of the 

 male is marked with a small rounded impression near the tip. 



MELYRIS Fabr. 

 The only two North American species known to me are of small size, very 

 coarsely punctured, without elevated costae on the elytra. 



1. M. b a s a 1 i s Xec, Class. Col. N. America, 93. Dasytes hasalis Lee, Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vi. 171. 



One specimen, Georgia. 



2. M. crib rat us Lec.^ loc. cit. Dasytes cribratus Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., vi. 171. 



Middle and Southern States. 



I have not identified the following species : 



Dasytes p a r v i c o 1 li s 3Iannh., Bull. Mosc, 1843, 248. 



Listrus tibialis Motsch., ibid, 1859, ii. 391. 



Trichochrous californicus Motsch., ibid, 1859, ii. 393. 



Trichochrous cylindricus 3Iotsch., ibid, ibid. 



Additions to the COLEOPTEBOUS FAUNA of tlie United States. No. 1. 

 BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M. D. 



It is my intention, from time to time, to publish descriptions of the new spe- 

 cies which have been obtained too late for insertion in the " List of the Coleop- 

 tera of North America," and the " New Species of North American Coleoptera," 

 in course of publication by the Smithsonian Institution. As the parts of those 

 two works now in print treat of the same families as are contained in Part I. 

 of the " Classification of the Coleoptera of North America," published by 

 the Institution, the papers of this series will be confined wnthin the same 

 limits. Any interesting discoveries in the succeeding families, in which the 

 penultimate joint of the tarsi is connate with the last joint, (Tetramera and 

 Trimera of the Latreillean method,) and in the Rhynchophora, will be de- 

 ferred, or made known only in faunal memoirs. 



The descriptions of individual members of genera and families are in the 



1866.] 




862 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



jirosont stale of ))rojircss of Kntomology very undesirable ; Die coiDplication in 

 hibliograpliy luul the (liiliciillj of refereiuH! beiiijif sources of }j;reHter injury 

 than the advaulage resulting from tiie knowledge of the species thus i)ublished. 

 And the motives which induce me, on the present occasion, to violate my well- 

 established opinions of what is best for the interests of science are ; first, the 

 number of genera not previously represented in our territory; and secondly, by 

 numbering the papers in a regular series, to render them really supplements to 

 tlie " List " and " New Species" vxbove mentioned. At the same time I shall 

 rigidly exclude from this series any species which can be described in any 

 monographic or faunal memoir which may soon be elaborated. Varieties or 

 races of described species which have not been previously noticed in print will 

 also be mentioned. 



yince the publication of my last descriptions of Coleoptera, the metrical 

 system of weights and measures has been adopted and authorized by the 

 <iovernment of the United States. The measurements used in the present 

 series are millimetres, and can be converted approximately into hundredths of 

 an inch, (the measure used in my previous memoirs,) by multiplying by four. 



CICINDELA Linn. 



1. C. obsoleta Say. A remarkable variety, or rather race, of this species 

 was collected at Fort Whipple, Arizona, by Dr. E. Coues, U. S. A. It is of 

 large size, (19 mm.,) dark blue color, tinged with green, the thorax less flat- 

 tened than in race p r a s i n a , but less convex than in race v u 1 1 u r i n a , with 

 the pale markings of the elytra perfect, as in the best developed specimens of 

 the latter: viz., a humeral spot, a submarginal spot before the middle, a medial 

 band not attaining the margin, composed of two spots connected by an oblique 

 line, an apical lunule, consisting of a terminal margin dilated into a spot 

 anteriorly about one-hfth of the length of the elytra; the legs and under sur- 

 face are dark blue, with the last ventral segment black. 



2. C. longilabris Say. A variety of this species occurs in Colorado, in 

 which the color above is dark brown slightly bronzed, the humeral lunule 

 entire, connected with the medial band by a narrow submarginal w'hite line, 

 and the apical lunule entire and dilated anteriorly into a large spot. The 

 under surface and legs, as usual, are blue green. For a specimen I am indebted 

 to Dr. S. Lewis. 



3. C- nigrocoerulea Lee. Mr. Ulke has a specimen of this species, 

 from Colorado, in which the color above is dull leek-green, and the elytra are 

 immaculate. 



4. C. rufiventris DeJ. Chaudoir (Cat. Coll. Cicindelites, 1865,) con- 

 siders C. 16-punctata and C. curnatiUs as varieties of this species. 



5. C. dorsalis Say. Chaudoir (loc. cit.) regards C. media Lee. and C. 

 Saulcyi Gu^rin as varieties of this species. I have in the list already placed 

 the former as a race of C. dorsalis, but the much smaller size, and the 

 less development of the tooth on the right mandible of the male, seem to 

 establish the specific nature of C. Saulcyi. 



6. C. repanda Dej.. C. 12-guttata Dej. is placed by Chaudoir as 

 a variety of this species. 



Y. C. obliquata Kirhy, as I learn from a drawing 

 made by Mr. Andrew Murray, from the type in the 

 British Museum, is quite distinct from any species known 

 to me. The annexed wood cut will show the character of 

 the markings better than any description. The species 

 should hereafter be known as C. K i r b y i. 



[Dec. 



lb 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



8. C. formosa Sap. Chaudoir regards C. generosa Dej. and venusta Lee. 

 as being varieties of this species. 



9. 0. rugifrons DeJ. Besides the races indicated by me in the List, 

 Baron Chaudoir places as a variety of this species C. scutellaris. From 

 this view I must dissent, regarding the finely and densely rugous prothorax of 

 the latter as constituting an essential difference between the two. 



10. C. rectilatera Chaud., Bull. Mosc, 1843, 69.3, is the species found 

 in Texas which I erroneously considered as C. d e c o s t i g m a, and subse- 

 quently proposed to name C. t e x a n a (List, p. 1). 



11. C. purpurea Oliv. Chaudoir places C. splendida as a variety 

 of this species. 



12. I learn from Mr. Sall^, as well as from Baron Chaudoir's Catalogue, that 

 the species described by me, Tr. Am. Phil. Soc. xi. 62, as C. viatica Chevr.y 

 is different from that species. It may be called, from its locality, C. p i m e - 

 r i a n a. 



BLETHISA Bon. 



B. m ul tip un ctata Dej., Sp. Gen. ii. 266. A specimen which, on close 

 comparison with European specimens, shows no difference, was found at 

 Ottawa, C. W., and presented to me by Mr. B. Billings. Two others from the 

 neighborhood of Chicago are in the collection of Mr. Ulke. 



NEBMA Latr. 



N. o b 1 i q u a, alata nigra, thorace longitudine dupio latiore postice angus- 

 tato, lateribus antice rotundatis, postice obliquis hand sinuatis, basi truncata, 

 angulis posticis obtusis baud rotundatis, canaliculato, antice profunde trans- 

 versim impresso ad basin fortiter impresso et parce punctato ; elytris oblongis, 

 thorace latioribus, striis subpunctatis, 3io puncto pone medium impresso : 

 antennis palpis tarsisque piceis. Long. 11 mm. 



Colorado. I have seen two specimens belonging to Dr. S. Lewis, one of 

 which he has- generously placed in my collection. In form this species 

 resembles N. m o e s t a, but the sides of the thorax are not sinuate near 

 the base, the hind angles, though well marked, are not rectangular but 

 obtuse, the elytra are less convex, and the third interval has but one im- 

 pressed puncture, which is on the third stria, about one-fourth from the tip. 



CYCHRUS Fabr. 



C. Guyotii, seneo-niger, thorace latitudine hand longiore, postice valde 

 angustato, lateribus anguste fortiter marginatis, disco rugoso postice punctato ; 

 elytris ovalibus convexis, anguste marginatis, dense crenato-striatis. Long. 

 27 mm. 



LeConte, List of the Coleoptera of North America, p. 58, (1st issue, 1863). 

 One specimen collected among the Black Mountains of North Carolina, was 

 given me by Prof. A Guyot. A remarkable species, resembling in its characters 

 C. A n d r e w s i i, but as large as C. v i d u u s. 



The specimen is a female, and on comparison with the same sex of C. 

 A n d r e w s i i, it is found to differ not only in size and by the more coarse 

 punctures of the base of^he thorax, but also by the labrum being less 

 elongate, the lobes less slender, the emargination more broadly rounded, and 

 not extending so near to the base as in that species ; the sides of the thorax 

 are distinctly angulated near the middle. 



DYSCHIRIUS Bon. 



D. o b e s u s , rufo-testaceus parum nitidus, epistomate late emarginato, alis 

 rotundatis, thorace latitudine breviore ovato, antice parum angustato ; elytris 



1866.] 




864 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fiiscis wnesoentibus, fcrc obsolete striatis, subovatis thorace baud latioribus, 

 apice bite subtruucatis, Lonff. G-5 mm. 



Le Conte, List of the Coleoptera of North America, p. 58, (1st issue, 1863). 

 One specimen, collected near San Francisco, California, given me by Dr. G. 

 H. Horn. This species is related to D. m a r i n u s Lee, but is much stouter in 

 form ; the thorax is comparatively larger, and the elytra more obviously sub- 

 truncate. 



The publication of subsequent pages of the work, in which the descriptions 

 of this and the preceding species first appeared, has caused the page above 

 quoted to be cancelled, and I have therefore rendered any future reference 

 to it unnecessary by transferring them to the present memoir. 



APENES Lee. 



A. nebulosa, depressa picea, opaca, capite thoraceque confertim 

 rugosis et subtiliter punctatis, hoc latitudine sesqui breviore canaliculato 

 postice angustato, angulis posticis obtusis distinctis, basi sinuatim rotundata ; 

 elytris thorace sesqui latioribus, striis impunctatis, interstitiis planis, 3io bi- 

 punctato, fuscis, limbo lato fasciisque duabus obliquis obscure testaceis ; abdo- 

 mine testaceo, antennis palpis pedibusque pallidioribus. Long. 6-5 mm. 



Cape San Lucas, Lower California ; Mr. Xantus Of the same size as A. 

 s i n u a t a, but quite different in color, lustre and sculpture. The elytra are 

 rather broader than in the other species, and the oblique pale bands are not very 

 distinct ; the anterior one runs backwards towards the suture, and the pos- 

 terior one runs forward, producing a resemblance to the markings in some 

 Bembidia of the group Notaphus. The antenna are scarcely as long as the 

 head and thorax united ; the claws are feebly pectinate, each being armed 

 ■with two to three teeth. The rugosities of the head are longitudinal, and 

 quite densely placed, with some intermixed punctures. 



RHOMBODERA Reich. 



R. b i c o 1 r Lee. I have two specimens from Illinois, which differ from 

 the type by having the head black; they are thus intermediate in color 

 between R. pallipes, in which the head and thorax are black, and R. 

 b i c o 1 o r, in which both are yellow. I prefer regarding all as belonging to 

 one species. 



PTEROSTICHUS Bon. 



P. superciliosus. Feronia superc. Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., iii. 

 144, ed. LeConte, ii. 92. 



A specimen from West Virginia, 15 mm. long., given me by Dr. S. Lewis, 

 differs from P. moestus in having the thorax less narrowed behind, the 

 hind angles more broadly rounded and feebly carinate ; the basal impressions 

 finely punctured, separated from the refiexed margin by the feeble carina just 

 mentioned ; the elytra are much less obtuse behind, shining, (at least in the 

 male,) deeply striate and tinged with purple ; the third interval has four punc- 

 tures, as in P. moestus. The outline is nearly the same as in P. s t y g i - 

 c u s, but the thorax is somewhat more narrowed behind. 



In Say's description of Ferorna superc. the base of the thorax is said to be 

 "wider than the petiole," and in the description of F. moesta, "not wider than 

 the petiole." The descriptions otherwise accor# with each other, and the 

 other distinctive characters between P. moestus and the specimen before 

 me are not mentioned ; yet, as the original types of F. supnciliosa are 

 destroyed, I prefer rather to adopt the name than to regard the species under 

 consideration as a nondescript. 



The form and sculpture of the thorax is nearly the same as in P. p r o - 

 t e n s u s Lee, (New Species of N. Am. Col., 12,) but the form in that species 

 is more elongate, the elytra are more deeply striate, not tinged with purple, 

 and there are but two dorsal punctures. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



SELENOPHORUS Dej. 



S. subtinctus, elongato-oblongus, niger nitidus, thorace capite parum 

 latiore latitudine breviore, postice angustato, angulis posticis obtusis baud 

 rotundatis, margine lateral! piceo, ad basin utrinque vage impresso, punctu- 

 lato ; elytris iridescentibus, thorace paulo latioribus, striis profundis, ad 

 apicem magis exaratis, 2da punctis 6 — 8 parvis impressis, 5ta punctis 3 vel 4 

 parvis parum distinctis, antennis palpis pedibusque testaceis. Long. 6-5 mm, 



Louisiana ; one specimen given me by Mr. Ulke. Allied to S. i r i c o 1 o r, 

 but smaller and narrower, with the hind angles of the thorax not at all 

 rounded, and the base each side strongly punctulate. 



HYDROPORUS Latr. 



H. o b e s u s , rotundatus convexus, postice acutus, subtiliter reticulatus, 

 parce subtiliter punctulatus, piceus, capite, thoracis lateribus, elytrorum fas- 

 ciis et lineolis pedibusque pallidis ; epistomate baud marginato, occipite ob- 

 scuro, thorace utrinque linea arcuata ad basin extensa impresso, elytris utrin- 

 que subtiliter biseriatim punctatis ; antennis extrorsum, tarsisque piceis. 

 Long. 3 mm. 



One male, California, Mr, Ulke, Of the same size and form as H. p u n c- 

 t a t u s and cuspidatus, but rather more obtuse in front, and very distinct 

 by the epistoma not being margined in front, and by the thorax each side being 

 marked with a deep curved line, concave inwards, extending from the middle 

 to the base. This line is twice as distant from the middle as from the side, and 

 meets the base at an obtuse angle. The pale markings of the elytra consist of 

 a basal band, another behind the middle, and an apical spot; the bands are 

 composed of short lines more or less confluent, and are dilated at the margin 

 into larger spots ; the epipleurse are testaceous ; the usual lines are composed 

 of small crowded punctures, the surface is finely reticulate, and towards the 

 suture small sparsely scattered punctures are visible, which become obsolete 

 towards the sides. 



H. 12-1 in eat us Z^c. and H. scitulus Zee. are the only other species 

 in my collection having the thorax similarly impressed, but the lines in them 

 are less acutely defined, and the body is not rounded. 



H. vitiosus Lee. A male specimen from Texas, sent me by Mr. Sall^, 

 agrees in form and arrangement of colors with the female type from Illinois, 

 but differs by the punctuation, which is quite strong, and not dense, nearly as 

 in the male of H. o p p o s i t u s. The agreement in other respects is so com- 

 plete that I would not be justified in regarding it as belonging to a different 

 species. 



H. sellatus, ovalis conv,exus, modice elongatus, nitidus, subglaber, ca- 

 pite nigro-piceo subtiliter hand dense punctato, ore maculaque occipitali tes- 

 taceis, thorace testaceo, apice infuscato, basi late piceo, profunde punctato, 

 lateribus obliquis rectis, cum elytris (lateraliter visis) angulum valde obtusum 

 formantibus ; elytris pallidis, profunde sat dense punctatis, punctis majoribus 

 versus suturam et in vitta dorsali parum distincta digestis, sutura, lineolis pan- 

 els, plagaque postica irregulari subsuturali maxima nigris ; subtus niger, rude 

 punctatus, pedibus testaceis, antennarum apice femoribusque infuscatis. Long. 

 3-5 mm. 



One specimen from Dacota, given me by Mr. Ulke. This species has the 

 same size and nearly the same form and sculpture asH. suturalis Zee, but 

 is more equally attenuated in front and behind, and the punctures of the elytra 

 are somewhat finer and more dense ; the pale yellow elytra, with the large black 

 posterior spot, will enable it to be easily recognized. The spot extends from 

 before the middle to within a short distance of the tip, and from the suture 

 three-fourths way to the sides ; the anterior outline is formed by the confluence 

 of two short lines, and the exterior outline is lobed ; the whole suture is black- 



1866.] 




866 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



ish, and the same color extends along the inner portion of tlie base; a small 

 discoidal brownish line is seen before the middle, and nearer the side than the 

 suture ; the punctures are tolerably dense and deep, and in the [)08ition of the 

 usual lines are seen a few scattered larger punctures; the epipleurjc are pale. 

 The body beneath is very coarsely punctured, as in H. suturalis and allied 

 species. 



COLYMBETES Clairv. 



C. notatus Slurm. Dytiscus not. Fahr. I have a male specimen, found in 

 Montana, which agrees with the figures and descriptions of this common Euro- 

 pean species. The head is black, with the front part and two spots on the ver- 

 tex pale. The thorax is pale, with a transverse medial black spot ; the basal 

 and apical edge are narrowly margined with black ; the sides are rounded and 

 do not form a perceptible angle with the outline of the elytra. The elytra are 

 pale, thickly and coarsely irrorate whh black, leaving the suture and two al- 

 most obsolete lines on each pale ; scutellum black. Body beneath black, legs, 

 prosternum, abdominal sutures and large apical spot testaceous.- This species 

 is smaller and more convex than C. binotatus, and on account of the broadly 

 rounded sides of the thorax is more obtusely rounded in front, more parallel on 

 the sides, and more acute behind. The ungues of the anterior and middle feet 

 are very unequal, the inner one being one-half the length of the outer one, 

 which on the front feet is nearly straight. 



C. tostus, elongato-ovalis, modice convexus, antice paulo magis obtusus, 

 capite nigro antice pallido, vertice immaculato ; thorace testaceo, nebula media 

 basique infuscato, lateribus late rotuudatis ; elytris lateribus subparallelis, con- 

 fertim minus subtiliter nigro-irroratis, sutura antice lineisque utriuque duabus 

 abbreviatis parum distinctis pallidis relictis ; subtus piceo-ferrugineus, pedibus 

 prosternoque pallidioribus. Long. 11mm.; lat. 5-5 mm. 



Mas unguiculis anterioribus elongatis subaequalibus, fere rectis. 



Femina elytris a basi ultra medium longitudinaliter profunde sat dense aci- 

 culatis. 



A male from North Red River, and a female from Idaho. This species has 

 nearly the form of the preceding, but is less convex ; and is easily known by 

 the absence of the vertical spots, and by the color of the under surface. The 

 inner claw of the front tarsi of the male is scarcely shorter than the outer one ; 

 they are slightly sinuous, but nearly straight. 



HELOPHORUS Fabr. 



H. fortis, elongato-oblongus, subtus nigro-piceus, supra fusco-testaceus 

 nitidus, capite virescente, punctato ; thorace parce punctato, versus latera parce 

 granulato, latitudine sesqui breviore, postice paulo angustato, lateribus 

 late rotundatis, postice subsinuatis, angulis posticis fere rectis, sulcis 5 profundis 

 exaratis ; elytris postice fusco et pallido nebulosis, striis profundis fortiter punc- 

 tatis, interstitiis parce uniseriatim punctulatis ; pedibus testaceis. Long. 5 — 

 6-5 mm. 



San Francisco, Mr. Bolander. Differs from H. oblongus Lee. by the tho- 

 rax being more strongly punctulate, narrowed behind, with the hind angles less 

 obtuse, and by the markings of the elytra forming a little group behind the 

 middle, the angle of which is directed forwards. The granules at the side of 

 the thorax are more distinct, and are marked with a central puncture. 



LIMNEBIUS Leach. 



L. suturalis, ovalis convexus, niger nitidus, capite thoraceque parce 

 subtilissime punctulatis, hoc lateribus flavis diaphanis, elytris parce subtiliter 

 pubescentibus, stria suturali antice abbreviata, limbo laterali, et apicali flavo 

 diaphano, parce subtiliter, praecipue postice punctulatis ; pedibus piceis, antennis 

 basi flavis. Long. 1-5 — 2 mm. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Mas abdomine elytris paulo longiore, articulis duobus ultimis connatis, fere 

 glabris ; 6to triang-ulari, impresso, 7mo apice rotundato, longe ciliato. 



Femina abdomine shnplici, elytris baud longiore. 



Pennsylvania, New York and Lake Superior. There are five specimens be- 

 fore me. This species differs from the European species, except L. atom u s, 

 by the distinct sutural stria, which extends from the tip to within one-third of 

 the base. I have observed no sexual diff'erence in the legs. The last two ven- 

 tral segments of the male are connate, forming a plate, which is triangularly im- 

 pressed at the base, but rounded and ciliate with long hairs at the tip. 



NECROPHORUS Fabr. 



N. Hecate Bland, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., iv., 382. 



Kansas and Colorado. This species resembles in the form of the thorax N. 

 Melsheimeri Kirby, but differs by the smaller size, the less finely punctured 

 head and thorax, and by the deeper dorsal channel of the latter ; the red mark- 

 ings vary in size, being sometimes as in N. m ar g i n a t u s and Melshei- 

 meri, except that the black extends slightly upon the epipleurae behind the 

 humeri ; and sometimes so broad that the two bands become united, leaving 

 only the base, apical margin, small common sutural spot, sutural margin 

 behind the middle, and another small lobed spot near the side, black. The 

 club of the antennge is entirely ferruginous. Length 11-5 — 20 mm. 



I have received, through the friendly attention of Mr. A. Murray, sketches of 

 the thorax, elytra and antennae of N. obscurus and h e b e s Kirby ; the 

 former does not appear to be different from that which I have recognized as N. 

 Melsheimeri Kirby ; the hind trochanters are emarginate in the female, 

 but the inner angle is recurved in the male. N. h e b e s is a species unknown 

 to me, differing from N. marginatus and Melsheimeri by the club of 

 the antennae being entirely black, and the posterior red band being represented 

 by a large irregular spot, touching neither the side nor the suture ; the epi- 

 pleurge, as in the species named, are entirely red. 



N. confossor Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., vii. 19. 



From Oregon. Appears to be a variety of N. m a r i t i m u s Mann., with 

 very broad markings ; the red bands are as broad as in N. marginatus or 

 N. Melsheimeri, from which it differs by the thorax being scarcely nar- 

 rowed behind, and with a wider depressed margin ; the first joint of the antennal 

 club is black, as in N. Melsheimeri, and the hind trochanters of the 

 female are emarginate, while, as in that species, the inner angle of the male is 

 strongly recurved. 



N. p y g m ae u s Kirby. In the List of Coleoptera of North America I have 

 incorrectly placed this as a synonym of N. m o r t u o r u m, from which it dif- 

 fers by the absence of the red spot at the base of the epipleurae. 



N. defodiens Mann, seems to be a larger form of N. pygmaeus, 

 with narrower markings. I have specimens from Oregon, intermediate in size 

 between the very small Canadian form and the large specii^ens found in Rus- 

 sian America. 



STLPHA Linn. 



S. o p a ca Linn. The occurrence of this species in Arctic America, on the 

 borders of Mackenzie and Slave Rivers, is mentioned by Mr. A. White, in Rich- 

 ardson's Arctic Searching Expedition, p. 474. I am indebted to Mr. Ulke for a 

 specimen collected by Mr. Robert Kennicott, in the Hudson Bay Territory. 



LEPTINUS Miiller. 



L. americanus, ovalis depressus, testaceus, confertim subtilius rugose 

 punctatus, pube pallida sat dense vestitus, thorace latitudine breviore antror- 

 sura angustato, lateribus rotundatis, basi late rotundatim emarginata, angulis 



1866.] 




868 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



posticis subacutis ; elytris apice late rotundatis, abdomine paulo brcvioribus. 

 liOiijy. -2 mm. 



Keokuk, Iowa, Dr. Brendel. This species agrees with the figures and 

 descriptions of the European L. t e s t a c e u s, and 1 have liad no opportunity, 

 by comparing specimens, to observe the differences which probably exist. 



My object in describing the species is not only to make known the dis- 

 covery of the genus on this continent, but to call attention to some hitherto 

 unnoticed characters which seems to indicate that its place is not in the family 

 Silphidje, in which it has been thus far classed. 



The head resembles very much that of a Hydrophilide, Philhydrus or Cer- 

 cyon, for instance, the upper surface being slightly convex, .not narrowed 

 anteriorly, but broadly rounded, both on the sides and in front; the labrum is 

 broad, transverse and not prominent, the mandibles do not project; the anten- 

 nas are inserted on the under surface of the sides of the front, slender, longer 

 than the head and thorax ; the first joint is as long as the two following united, 

 the second is shorter, but scarcely thicker than the third; the outer joints are 

 very slightly thickened ; all the joints appear equally opaque and pubescent ; 

 the eyes are entirely wanting ; the mentum is large, slightly concave, with the 

 hind angles acute, produced backwards over the gula, forming small carinas ; 

 the suture between the mentum and gula is distinct, but not as obvious as 

 usual ; the prothorax beneath is quadrately emarginate in front, so that 

 the anterior angles project under the head; the anterior cox^e are oval or 

 rounded, not prominent ; the cavities are open behind, almost separated by 

 the prosternum, and externally furnished with a narrow fissure, to the end of 

 which the prosternal suture runs ; the middle coxae are small', separated by a 

 narrow carinated mesosternum ; the trochantin is visible, and the side pieces 

 extend to it ; the hind coxae are flat, and not very large ; the tibial spurs are 

 long and slender, and all the tibiae are sparsely spinous ; the tarsi are all five- 

 jointed, and the fourth joint is slightly oblique beneath, and furnished with a 

 dense brush of hairs ; the first joint of the hind tarsi is as long as the three 

 following united ; the abdomen is flat, with the sixth joint short, but distinct. 



It is to be observed, from the notes given above, that this genus differs from 

 Silphidae by — 1st, the form of the head, and the insertion of the antennae, 

 2d, the form of the mentum, 3d, the form and arrangement of the anterior 

 coxae, 4th, the structure of the fourth joint of the tarsi ; all of which are 

 characters of fundamental importance. It agrees with Hydrophilidae in the 

 form of head, insertion of antennae, general arrangement of mentum, gula 

 and prosternum, but differs by the regular antennae, not prominent anterior 

 coxa;, aud structure of the fourth joint of the tarsi. The relations with 

 Mycetophagidae, to which it bears a superficial resemblance, and Cryptophagi- 

 dge, are too remote to be worthy of analysis. With Nitidulidae, especially the 

 genera having large mentum, it might also be considered to have some 

 affinity, but the fourth joint, of the tarsi is not small, the anterior coxae 

 have no trochantin, and their coxal cavities are partially confluent and open 

 behind. 



I therefore infer Ihat Leptinus is a highly specialized type, representing a 

 distinct family, having less affinity with Silphidffi than with Hydrophilidse. 



Dr. Brendel observes in a letter, " This insect I found under a log in a mouse 

 nest, in company with fleas; in the. neighborhood were yellow ants, of the 

 same kind with which Ceophyllus lives." 



ANISOTOMA 111. 



A. conferta, ovalis, convexa castanea nitida, capite thoraceque minus 

 dense subtiliter punctatis, hoc brevi, lateribus magis rotundatis ; elytris seriatim 

 confertim punctatis, subtiliter parce obsolete transversim strigosis, stria sutu- 

 rali sola impressa ; pedibus testaceis. Long. 3 mm. 



Mas tarsis anterioribus articulis 2 — 4 paulo dilatatis ; femoribus posticis 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 369 



dente parvo apicali inferno recurvo armatis, tibiis posticis elongatis, paulo cur- 

 vatis. Femina latet. 



One specimen, Illinois. This species has the form and almost the sculpture 

 of Hydnobius. It differs from all the other species in my collection by the 

 punctures of the intervals being as large and nearly as close as those of the 

 striae of the elytra, which thus appear thickly punctured in rows ; the trans- 

 verse rugae are very fine, and not very distinct ; the carina of the mesoster- 

 num is finer than usual, but quite distinct. 



ANOGDUS nov. gen. 



Corpus late ovale, convexum, baud contractile ; antennae 10-articulatae, 

 articulis 1 — 2 crassiusculis, 3io triangulari, crassitie vixlongiore, 4 — 6 brevibus, 

 subtransversis, 7 — 10 valde transversis, clavam laxam magnam, articulis 1 — 6 

 paulo longiorem formantibus, 10 angustiore, apice obtuse rotundato : frons 

 apice et lateribus subtiliter marginatus. Mesosternum carinatum, metasternum 

 haud protuberans. Pedes breviusculi, crassiusculi ; femora incrassata; tibiae 

 spinulosge sensim dilatatae, calcaribus inaequalibus terminatae ; tarsi antici 5, 

 intermedii 5, postici 4-articulati, articulo Imo majore. 



The species upon which I have established this new genus resembles, in 

 form and sculpture, a broad Anisotoma, but differs by the antennae having a 

 much larger club, in which the eighth joint is wanting, and the last joint nar- 

 rower than the preceding. From Cyrtusait differs by the first joint of the 

 club being as wide as the two following, and by the mesosternum being 

 carinated. 



A. capitatus, late ovalis, convexus ferrugineus, nitidus, capite thor- 

 aceque sat dense subtiliter punctatis, hoc lateribus subtiliter marginatis fortiter 

 rotundatis, basi immarginata ; elytris striis dense subtiliter punctatis, inter- 

 stitiis sat dense transversim rugose punctulatis, alternis punctis parcis majori- 

 bus parum conspicuis, seriatim impressis. Long. 3 mm. 



Florida, one specimen. The interior outline of the hind thighs is nearly 

 straight, armed with a minute tooth at the middle, and the apical angle is 

 rounded and prominent. The specimen is probably a male. 



CYRTUSA Er. 

 To this genus belongs Amphicyllis picipennis Lec.^ New Species, p. 

 25. I am indebted to Mr. Ulke for specimens, which enable a more careful 

 examination to be made than was possible with the unique type ; the hind 

 thighs of the male are armed beneath at the apex, with a large and broad 

 tooth, acute, but not recurved at the tip. It differs from C. egena Lee, 

 not only by size, color and sculpture, but by the legs being less thickened, 

 and by the tarsi being nearly filiform, while in C. egena they gradually 

 diminish from base to tip ; the body is also somewhat contractile in C. e g e n a, 

 as in L i d e s, but scarcely so in C. picipennis. The eighth joint of 

 the antennae is not visible in either specie's. 



COLENIS Er. 



InC. impunctata Lee. the joints of the tarsi are 5, 4, 4 ; the anten- 

 nae distinctly 11-jointed, with the seventh joint wider than the eighth, but 

 smaller than the 9th ; the eleventh is elongate, oval and somewhat acutely 

 pointed at tip. 



In C ? 1 ae V i s Lee, the tarsi are slender, with the joints 4, 3, 3 ; the mesos- 

 ternum is carinated ; the eighth joint of the antennae is scarcely narrower than 

 the seventh ; the ninth and tenth are wider and larger, subtransverse ; eleventh 

 much larger oval, subacute at tip, and marked beyond the middle by a trans- 

 verse line ; the body is feebly contractile. These characters indicate a genus 

 intermediate between C o 1 e n i s, and Agaricophagus, for which the 

 name Aglyptus may be adopted ; it is distinguished from both genera by the 

 upper surface being smooth and impunctured, and by the front being finely 

 margined, both at the sides and anteriorly. 



1866.] 24 




870 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



CIIEVROLATIA DuVal. 



C. a m 05 n a , rufa, flavo-pubesccns, thorace latitudinc longiore, ante 

 Tnedium atiguatato, basi breviter carinato et utrinque bifoveato, foveis mcdiis 

 inajoribus, elytris fovea basali versus scutellum, plicaque parva huinerali 

 notatis. Long. 2 mm. 



Washington, D. C, Fort Lee, near New York, Mr. Ulke. Agrees with the 

 tiescription of the European C i n s i g n i s JJuVal, (Ann. Ent. Soc. Fr , 1850, 

 2d ser., viii. 4G,) but ditiers from the figure by the thorax being less elongated, 

 and more suddenly narrowed from the middle to tlie apex. 



The genus will be easily distinguished among the Scydmajnidae by the nar- 

 row body and approximate moniliform antennae. The elytra are shorter than 

 the abdomen, leaving the pygidiura exposed as in Euthbia. 



I am indebted to the liberality of Mr. Ulke for the second specimen found 

 by him of this remarkable insect. 



AGATHIDIUM Illiger. 



A. p 1 i t u m , semigiobatile, testaceum nitidum, thorace elytris vix 

 latiore, his vix obsolete punctulatis, stria suturali ad medium antice abbre- 

 viata, humeris obtusis rotundatis ; sutura frontali nigricante, tarsis crassius- 

 culis. Long. 2-5 mm. 



Mas mandibulo sinistro cornu elongato curvato nigricante armato. 



One male, York Co., Pa. ; Dr. Melsheimer. This species differs from all the 

 other species from the Atlantic States, by the characters given above ; it 

 agrees in form and sculpture with the Californian A. p u 1 c h r u m, but differs 

 from it by the color, and by the tarsi being less slender. A. e x i g u u m, which 

 resembles it in size and sculpture, differs by the wider thorax and more per- 

 fect power of contracting into a ball, indicated by the humeral angles of the 

 elytra being more obtuse, and very obliquely truncate. 



FALAGRIA Mann. 



F. scutellaris, attenuata, nigricans, subtiliter sericeo-pubescens, tho- 

 race ovato, latitudine longiore, dense punctulato, profunde canaliculato, scutello 

 canaliculato, elytris convexis hand punctatis, abdomine subtiliter punctato, 

 ano pedibusque testaceis, antennis fuscis. Long. 3-5. 



One specimen. Coney Island, near New York. Resembles F. bilobata by 

 the densely punctulate thorax, but differs by the thorax being more narrowed 

 behind, by the scutellum being distinctly channelled, and by the elytra being 

 not punctulate. 



F. bilobata, attenuata, nigricans, pube sericante subtili vestita, thor- 

 ace ovato latitudine paulo longiore, dense punctulato, profunde canaliculato, 

 scutello vix canaliculato, elytris convexis subtiliter punctulatis, abdomine 

 punctulato, ano saepe testaceo, pedibus testaceis antennis fuscis. Long. 

 3 — 4-5 mm. 



Aleochara [Aleodorus) bilobata Say, Tr. Am. Phil. Soc, vi. 156 ; ed. Leconte, 

 ii. 589 



Western States — Illinois, Indiana, Missouri. In this and in the preceding 

 species the head is scarcely punctulate, and the hind angles of the thorax are 

 marked with a large puncture. 



F. cingulata, attenuata, picea, tenuiter pubescens, capite antice vix, 

 postice parce punctulato, thorace ovato latitudine longiore, parce punctulato, 

 profunde canaliculato ; scutello punctato, subtiliter carinato, elytris parce sub- 

 tilissime punctulatis ; abdomine laevi, segmentis duobus primis piceo-testaceis, 

 reliquis nigris, antennis pedibusque piceo-testaceis. Long. 3 — 3-5 mm. • 



New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois. This species has the same form as F. 

 bilobata, but is very different in its sculpture. The very fine carina of the 

 scutellum is visible only under a high magnifier. The anterior dorsal seg- 

 ments of the abdomen, as in all the preceding species, are transversely im- 

 pressed, with a line of punctures at the bottom of the impression, but the 

 dorsal surface is otherwise smooth. 



[Deo. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 871 



F. 1 je V i 11 s c u 1 a, Attenuata, picea, subaenescens, tenuiter pubescens, capite 

 rotundata, vix parce subtilissime, pnncUilato, thorace ovato, latitudine longiore) 

 vix conspicue punctiilato, profunde canaliculate, mox ante basin transversim 

 impresso ; scutello piano et elytris subtilissime punctulatis ; abdomine laevi, 

 apice vix punctulato ; antennis pedibusque piceo-testaceis. Long. 3-5 mm. 



Fort Tejon, California ; Dr. G. H. Horn. This species is of the same size and 

 form as F. c i n g u 1 a t a, but differs by the much less obvious punctures of the 

 head and thorax, and by the strongly marked transverse impression just in 

 front of the base of the thorax, which is less narrowed behind. 



F. quadriceps, depressa, nigro-picea, nitida, subtiliter pubescens, 

 capite magno, basi late truncato, angulis posticis rotundatis, parce punctulato, 

 fovea frontali impresso, occipite breviter canaliculato ; thorace trapezoideo, 

 postice modice angustato, latitudine paulo breviore, punctulato, profunde 

 canaliculato ; scutello punctulato, baud canaliculato ; elytris thorace latiori- 

 bus, punctulatis, piceo-testaceis ; abdomine subtiliter punctulato, piceo ; an- 

 tennis fuscis, basi pedibusque testaceis. Long. 3-5 mm. 



One specimen. New York ; April, und^r a stone. This species differs re- 

 markably from all the preceding by the head being not rounded but quadrate. 

 The base is broadly truncate, the sides behind the eyes are nearly parallel, and 

 the hind angles are rounded. The last joint of the maxillary palpi is smaller 

 than in the genuine Falagriae, and the tarsi are much less elongated ; the first 

 joint of the hind tarsi is as long as the three following united, which are nearly 

 equal, and the whole tarsus is about two-thirds the length of the tibia. The 

 antennae are not longer than the head and thorax, are less slender than 

 usual, and but slightly thickened externally. The abdomen is broader and 

 flatter than usual, and scarcely narrowed towards the base ; the dorsal seg- 

 ments are very finely punctulate, and the first three are impressed as usual, 

 but the impressions are not punctured. 



F. partita, nigricans, subtilissime pubescens, baud punctulata, capite 

 postice truncato, thorace ovato, latitudine baud longiore, profunde canalicu- 

 lato, scutello modice canaliculato, elytris paulo convexis ^ pedibus testaceis, 

 antennis fuscis apice magis incrassatis. Long. 2 — 2-5 mm. 



Florida and Louisiana. This little species might be easily confounded with 

 F. dissecta Er., but is somewhat larger, and has the scutellum much less 

 deeply channelled, and not bicarinate. The antennae in both are less slender 

 and less elongate than in our other species. 



F. V a g a , elongata, subdepressa, dense punctulata, subtiliter pubescens, 

 capite ad basin recte truncato, angulis posticis rectis rotundatis j thorace lati- 

 tudine paulo longiore, postice modice angustato, medio late vage canaliculato ^ 

 elytris thorace latioribus, at baud longioribus ; abdomine fere laevi, versus ba- 

 sin pallidiore, ano testaceo ; pedibus testaceis, antennis fuscis. Long. 3-5 mm. 



One specimen. Lake Superior. I refer this species to the present genus with 

 some hesitation, but the head is so much more strongly constricted behind, 

 that I am unwilling to refer it to Tachyusa. The head is truncate behind, with 

 the hind angles less rounded, and the neck less slender j the sides behind the 

 eyes are parallel. The thorax is as wide as the head, longer than wide, ob- 

 liquely truncate each side at the apex, with the sides straight, converging 

 slightly behind, base broadly rounded; disc flattened, feebly but broadly 

 channeled. Elytra distinctly wider than the thorax, flattened, truncate at tip, 

 with the outer angle acute ; abdomen slightly narrowed at the base, impressed 

 as usual, but with the impressions not punctured. Hind tarsi with the first 

 joint not as long as the three following, which diminish slightly in length. The 

 antennae are longer than the head and thorax, slightly thickened externally, 

 but the outer joints are somewhat distant, and not closely placed, as in the 

 genuine Falagriae ; the first three joints are elongated as usual. The last joint 

 of the maxillary palpi is scarcely one-half as long as the preceding, and is very 

 slender and a<jicular, 



1866.] 




872 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



F. cavipennis, fere linearis, nigra, nitida, tenuitcr pubescens, capitc 

 Iffivi, thoraco ovali, vel nigro vcl piceo, latitudine longiore, parce punctulato, 

 medio vapo longitudinaliter impresso, elytris testaceis, thorace paulo latioribus 

 at baud longioribus, tbrtitcr grauosis, dcplanatis niargine laterali elevato 

 ucuto ; abdomine la>vi, basi vix angustato, segmentis duobus primis, pedibus 

 autcnnisque testaceis, liis apicefuscis. Long. 3-5 mm. 



Mas segraento abdominis dorsali penultimo dente apicali ad medium armato. 



Two specimens found by me on tbe sea-shore, at San Pedro, California. 

 This species agrees with the preceding in the form of the antenna?, 

 I)alpi, feet and head ; but the thorax is regularly oval, not narrowed behind ; 

 the abdomen is less narrowed towards the base, and broader and flatter than 

 in them ; the dorsal surface is entirely without punctures, even in the trans- 

 verse impressions of the first three segments. The antennae and tarsi are very 

 much elongated, as in F. b i 1 o b a t a, c i n g u 1 a t a, &c. I observe no sexual 

 differences, except the one mentioned above. 



The following table will distinguish the species of Falagria now before me : 



I. Elytra smooth or punctulate. 



A. Head" rounded behind the eyes ; thorax deeply sulcate : 



Thorax finely and densely punctulate. 



Scutellum distinctly channeled 1. scutellaris. 



Scutellum scarcely channeled 2. bilobata. 



Thorax sparsely punctulate 3. cingulata. 



Thorax nearly smooth 4. Iseviuscula. 



B. Head subquadrate behind the eyes. 



a. Thorax deeply sulcate ; 

 Elytra densely punctulate : 



Scutellum not channeled . 5. quadriceps. 



Scutellum bicarinate, deeply channeled. 6. dissecta. 



Elytra scarcely punctulate, scutellum channeled 7. partita. 



b. Thorax feebly channeled 8. vaga. 



c. Thorax not channeled 9. venustuta. 



II. Elytra granose 10. cavipennis. 



OLIGOTA Mannh. 



0. pedalis, latiuscula, nigra, baud dense punctulata, subtiliter cinereo- 

 pubescens, thorace latitudine duplo breviore, a basi antrorsum angustato ; 

 elytris thorace longioribus, anoque piceis ; antennarum basi pedibusque tes- 

 taceis, illis articulis quatuor ultimis sensim majoribus. Long. -TB mm. 



District of Columbia ; oi^e specimen given me by Mr. Ulke. The antennae 

 are as long as the head and thorax ; the first and second joints are long and 

 thick ; the third is hardly one-third the thickness of the second, nearly cylin- 

 drical, and not more than one-half longer than its width ; the joints 4 — 7 

 gradually thicker, the sixth and seventh rounded, eighth and ninth wider, 

 transverse, tenth not wider than the ninth, but longer and obtusely rounded at 

 tip. The upper surface is sparsely punctulate, but more distinctly so on the 

 elytra, which, as well as the tip of the abdomen, are piceous. The form re- 

 sembles that of a small Gyrophaena. 



MYRMEDONIA Er. 



M. r u d i s , ferruginea, rude punctata parce subtiliter pubescens, capite 

 nigro medio laevi, thorace canaliculato, transverso, angulis valde rotundatis ; 

 elytris nigricantibus, sutura late ferruginea, antennis fuscis basi ferrugineis. 

 Long. 5 — 5-5 mm. 



Mas thorace granoso-punctato, disco late depresso ; abdominis segmento 

 ultimo dorsali subdentato, apice emarginato, segmentis reliquis apice et medio 

 leevibus. 



Femina thorace punctato, baud impresso, abdominis segmentis dorsalibus 

 fere aequaliter baud dense punctatis, ultimo apice rotundato. 



A very beautiful species found by Mr. Ulke at Washington, D. C, resting on 

 fences, before sunset. The sexual difference in the sculpture of the thorax is 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 373 



remarkable ; in the female the punctures are large and deep, and about as 

 closely placed as on the elytra ; in the male the punctures are replaced by 

 elevated smooth granules, and the disc is very broadly depressed, or slightly 

 concave. The antennae in both sexes are longer than the head and thorax, 

 moderately thickened externally, brown, with the basal joints reddish. The 

 head is black shining, coarsely punctured each side, and smooth in the middle ; 

 it is but slightly narrowed behind. The thorax is transverse, about one-half 

 wider than the head, rather flat, with all the angles rounded ; the dorsal chan- 

 nel is well marked. The elytra are coarsely and deeply punctured. The ab- 

 domen is moderately strongly but sparsely punctured ; the punctures are evenly 

 distributed in the female, leaving only a narrow apical margin of the segments 

 smooth ; but in the male they are accumulated at the base and sides of the 

 segments, leaving a wide apical margin and medial space smooth. 



In one specimen the elytra are blackish only at the sides and tip, the rest of 

 their surface being ferruginous. 



EURYUSA Er. 



Eu. o b t u s a , linearis, depressa, punctulata subtiliter pubescens, picea, 

 pedibus, thorace elytrisque fusco-ferrugineis, his versus latera et ad scutellum 

 infuscatis ; thorace latitudine fere duplo breviore, coleopteris hand latiore, ante 

 medium rotundatim angustato, basi late rotundata, angulis posticis obtusis, 

 ante basin transversim leviter foveato ; abdomine versus apicem pilosello, ano 

 pallidiore, segmentis ventralibus margine postico testaceo ; antennis fuscis, 

 basi vix pallidioribus. Long. 3-5 mm. 



Pennsylvania ; a specimen found at Columbia was given to me by Professor 

 S. S. Haldeman. The antennae are longer than the head and thorax, and not 

 much thickened externally; the joints 1 — 3 are nearly equal in length ; 4 — 10 

 somewhat shorter and gradually thicker, the outer ones but slightly wider than 

 their length ; eleventh twice as long as the tenth, pointed at the end when 

 viewed laterally. The thorax is much wider than the head, flattened, nearly 

 twice as wide as its length, very feebly channelled, rounded on the sides, es- 

 pecially before the middle, broadly rounded at the base. Hind angles obtuse, 

 not rounded, but not very well marked ; a feeble transverse impression is seen 

 near the middle of the base. The elytra are as long as the thorax. The dorsal 

 ventral segments are more finely punctulate than the thorax and elytra, nearly 

 smooth towards the extremity, and furnished with erect long hairs ; ventral 

 segments finely punctured, margined behind with testaceous. Feet and palpi 

 uniform reddish testaceous. 



Another specimen from the same locality is paler, the abdomen being of the 

 same color as the head and thorax, with a fuscous cloud on the fourth — sixth 

 dorsal segments ; the hind angles of the thorax are less obtuse and very well 

 marked, the base being feebly sinuate near the sides. There is no conspicuous 

 difference otherwise, and I am disposed to regard it as the male of the type. 



HOMCEUSA Kraatz. 



H. expansa, lata, postice sensim attenuata, parum convexa, testacea 

 nitida fortiter punctulata, subtiliter pubescens, thorace latitudine duplo breviore 

 antrorsum angustato, lateribus valde rotundatis, basi bisinuata angulis posticis 

 acutis productis ; elytris thorace pauio brevioribus, angulo apicali externo acute 

 producto ; abdomine capite thoraceque vix longiore, vix punctulato, longe pilo- 

 so ; antennis fuscis, basi apiceque testaceis, thorace haud longioribus, extror- 

 sum valde incrassatis. Long. 1-5 mm. 



Two specimens found near Washington, D. C, in ants' nests, by Mr. Ulke, 

 who has liberally placed one of them in my collection. The dorsal surface of 

 the abdomen is a little darker than the thorax and elytra. This species is 

 Dinarda pedicularia Dej., Cat. 



GYMNUSA Grav. 



G. brevicollis Mannh. A specimen was collected at Ottawa, 0. W., and 

 1866.] 




874 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



kindly given to mc by Mr. B. Billings, whicli does not differ from the descrip- 

 tions and figure of this species. I have had no opportuniry of comparing it 

 with European specimens. 



TACHYPORUS Grav. 



T. maculicollis, piceus, modice elongatus, antennis, palpis, pedibus, 

 elytris thoraceque testaceis, hoc macula dorsali picea notato, elytris abdomi- 

 neque subtiliter punctulatis et pubescentibus, hoc nigro-pilosoUo, segmentis 

 dorsalibus ventralibusque postice testaceo-marginatis. Long- 3-25 ram. 



Two specimens, Quebec, Canada ; Mr. W. Coupar. This species is less 

 elongate than T. j o c o su s, the abdomen being scarcely longer than the elytra, 

 which are about one-fourth longer than the thorax. The color, as above de- 

 scribed, will enable this species to be readily recognized. In the male the pe- 

 nultimate ventral segment is acutely emarginate, and the last segment pro- 

 longed ; in the female the last dorsal is acutely four-toothed. 



T. maculipennis, piceus, minus elongatus, antennis, palpis, pedibus, 

 thoraceque testaceis ; elytris subtiliter punctulatis et pubescentibus, vitta sub- 

 marginali, gutta dorsali pone basin, apiceque testaceis ; abdomine nigro- 

 pilosello, subtiliter punctulato, segmentis postice testaceo-marginatis. Long. 

 2-75 mm. 



One female specimen from Louisiana was given me by my lamented friend. 

 Dr. Schaum. This species is more robust than the preceding, and the abdo- 

 men is a little shorter than the thorax. The last dorsal segment is retracted, 

 and acutely four-toothed. 



A female from Illinois, given me by Mr. Ulke, is 4 mm. long, with the abdo- 

 men conspicuously longer than the elytra ; the black markings of the latter are 

 reduced in size, so that the ground color is pale, with a common scutellar spot, 

 a large discoidal blotch, and a marginal elongate spot remain blackish. I 

 believe it to belong to the same species as the type above described. The last 

 dorsal segment is acutely four-toothed. 



CONOSOMA Kraatz. 



C. K n o X i i , elongatum convexum, subtiliter sericeo-pubescens, capite 

 nigro, thorace elytrisque testaceis, illo ante medium, his postice et extrorsum 

 nigris, abdomine nigro, basi testaceo ; pedibus antennisque fiavo-testaceis, his 

 articulis 4 — 9 piceis, externis crassitie longioribus. Long. 3-5 mm. 



One specimen, Lycoming County, Pennsylvania. I have dedicated this beau- 

 tiful species to my friend Joseph Knox, of Pittsburgh, whose genial manners, 

 and well rewarded exertions in capturing specimens of trout added greatly to 

 the enjoyment of the excursion in which I discovered this and other interesting 

 additions to the fauna of Pennsylvania. 



The species of Conosoma [Oonurus Er.) in my collection agree very nearly 

 in form and sculpture, and are to be distinguished by size and color rather than 

 by structural differences. Several are still undescribed, but the present species 

 may be easily recognized by the characters above given. 



STICTOCRANIUS Lee. (n. g. Staphylinid*). 



S. puncticeps, elongatus piceus nitidus, capite grosse punctato, fronte 

 transversim empresso, margine antico elevato ; thorace obovali, capite paulo 

 angustiore, latitudine longiore, convexo laevi, punctis utrinque 7 magnis cana- 

 liculaque brevi media insculpto ; elytris Isevibns punctis magnis 3 vel 4 versus 

 suturam alterisque paucis dorsalibus insculptis ; abdomine immarginato parce 

 punctulato; antennis pedibusque piceo-ferrugineis. Long. 2-30 mm. 



Two specimens of this remarkable insect were found by Mr. Ulke, near "Wash- 

 ington, D. C; one of them he has liberally placed in my collection. This new 

 genus is related toEuaesthetus and E d a p h u s, having the tarsi 4-jointed. 

 as in those genera ; but it differs from both by the peculiar sculpture above men- 

 Pee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 875 



tioned, by the more elongate form, and by the ■abdomen being not margined. 

 One species of Eusesthetus described by Erichson possesses the last mentioned 

 character, but has the same sculpture as the other species. The antennae in 

 Stictocranius are not as long as the head and thorax, the second joint is 

 thicker than the third, which is equal to the fourth : 5 — 8 rounded, nearly equal, 

 ninth very slightly larger, tenth and eleventh broader, the former nearly square, 

 the latter one-half longer, obtusely rounded at tip. The head is large, wider than 

 its length, moderately convex, very coarsely punctured ; the front is trans- 

 versely impressed, and the anterior margin is elevated ; the eyes are moderate 

 in size, not very prominent, and are coarsely granulated. Thorax a little 

 longer than wide, obovate, gradually narrowed behind ; convex, smooth, with a 

 short impressed line at the middle, four discoidal punctures, forming a quin- 

 cunx, and four others on each side ; there is also a transverse range of punc- 

 tures near the base ; the two posterior dorsal punctures are elongated, resem- 

 bling the short medial line. Elytra convex, wider but not longer than the 

 thorax, smooth, with a few subsutural punctures, three or four in a short dor- 

 sal series, and three or four others near the side. Abdomen pubescent, cylin- 

 drical, not margined, very finely punctulate, pointed at the tip, one-half longer 

 than the elytra. 



DELEASTER Er. 



D. concolor, piceo-ferrugineus, pedibus testaceis ; capite laevi, postice 

 utrinque oblique impresso, vertice convexo, occipite transversim constricto ; 

 thorace capite vix majore, ovato, basi apiceque truncato, disco subtiliter cana- 

 liculato postice et utrinque ad latera late excavato ; elytris thorace duplo lati- 

 oribus, planis rugose punctulatis subopacis. Long. 7-5 mm. 



Mr. Ulke received two specimens from San Francisco, California, one of 

 which he has liberally given to me ; it resembles the European D. dichrous 

 in size, form and sculpture, but differs by the head and abdomen not being 

 darker than the thorax and elytra. 



ANTHOPHAGUS Grav. 

 A. V e r t i c a 1 i s Say. I found on the shores of Lake Superior two speci- 

 mens of a variety of this species, in which the body is of a uniform black color, 

 the legs alone being brownish-testaceous ; a similar specimen occurred in Ly- 

 coming County, Pennsylvania, on the banks of the Loyalsoc. 



LESTEVA Latr. 



L. fusconigra MaUin, Bull. Mosc, 1853, 193; Phloeopterus fuse. Motsch. 

 Et. Ent., 1852, 78. 



A specimen of this remarkable insect was collected in El Dorado County, Cali- 

 fornia, and sent me by Dr. J. G. Cooper. 



AMPHICHROUM Kraatz. 



A. laevicolle, nitidum, thorace ovali, latitudine breviore, angulis valde 

 rotundatis, disco convexo impunctato, lateribus depressis, elytris thorace duplo 

 longioribus, baud dense punctatis breviter pubescentibus, abdomine lajvi, bre- 

 viter pubescente. Long. 3-75 — 5 mm. 



Mas, minor, niger, thorace elytrisque piceis, limbo omni testaceo, ano, anten- 

 narum basi, palpis pedibusque flavo-testaceis. 



Femina, major, rufo-testacea, capite nigro-piceo. 



I found this species abundant on the flowers of Crataegus tomentom, in Lyco- 

 ming County, Pennsylvania. It is closely allied to the California A. flori- 

 b undum Lec.^ but differs by the thorax being more distinctly transverse, the 

 hind angles more rounded, and the disc free from punctures. The antennae 

 are a little shorter and less slender. 



Specimens of the male occur in which the elytra are entirely testaceous, but 

 in general the disc is piceous, with the entire margin (including the suture) of 

 each pale. 



1866.] 




876 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



PROGNATIIA Latr. 



P. punctata, castaneo-fusca, nitida, capitfe thoraceque punctatis, elytris 

 thorace longioribus, crebre striatim punctatis, abdomine parce punctulato, pe- 

 dibus ferrufvineis. Long. 4-3 — 6 mm. 



Pennsylvania, Mr. Ulive ; Canada, Mr. Saunders. This species differs from 

 P. americana by its dark color and much stronger punctures. In well 

 developed nuiles the mandibles ascend in the form of a slender curved horn, 

 and the supra-antennal horns are long and straight, converging but slightly. 

 The elytra are free from the numerous short longitudinal lines seen in P. c o n- 

 V e r g e n s, and are tolerably strongly striate and punctured. 



LISPINUS Er. 



L. l?evicauda, minus elongatus convexus, piceo-niger nitidus, capite 

 parce punctulato, thorace elytrisque subtiliter parce punctatis, illo versus an- 

 gulos posticos fovea parva impresso, abdomine vix punctulato, segmentis piceo- 

 marginatis, ano dilutiore ; subtus piceus, antennis palpis pedibusque piceo- 

 ferrugineis. Long. 3-4 mm. 



Illinois, Mr. Ulke. This species is less slender than the others in my collec- 

 tion, and is easily distinguished by the characters above given. The exposed 

 portion of the abdomen is not much longer than the elytra ; the latter are con- 

 vex, finely but not densely punctured, vi^ith the sutural stria deeply impressed. 



MURMIDIUS Leach. 



M. depressus, rotundato-ovalis, parum convexus, testaceus subnitidus, 

 subtiliter pubescens, thorace latitudine fere triplo breviore, lateribus rotun- 

 datis, antice fortiter angustato, disco aequaliter parum convexo, elytris seriatim 

 punctatis. Long. 1 mm. 



This species has an extensive range in the Northern States. I have seen 

 specimens from Pennsylvania, District of Columbia, and Ohio. Of its habits I 

 know nothing. 



Another species, of which I have received two specimens, collected by Dr. 

 Brendel, in Florida, agrees perfectly with the figure of M. o v a 1 i s in DuVal's 

 work, and with the description of Ceutocerus advena Germ. Ins. nov. p. 85. It 

 is quite distinct from M. d e p r e s s u s by the larger size (1-5 mm.), oval 

 convex form, shining lustre, less obvious pubescence, and by the sides of the 

 thorax being distinctly impressed, especially towards the anterior margin, 

 where just inwards from the antennal cavity may be seen a broad fovea. Ger- 

 mar expresses a suspicion that his species is different from Hister o v a 1 i s 

 Beck., but there is nothing in any of the works before me to warrant the belief 

 that two distinct species have been recognized by any European entomologist. 



AMPHOTIS Er. 



A. U 1 k e i, elliptica, depressa, brumneo-picea, fere opaca, pube brevi de- 

 pressa parce ve;stita, thorace confertim punctato, lateribus piceo-rufis subdia- 

 phanis, late depressis, angulis posticis subobtusis, haud rotundatis ; elytris 

 margine late explanato, guttis nonnuUis pone basin alterisque fasciam denta- 

 tam pone medium formantibus piceo-rufis ; sutura, costisque utrinque 5 paulo 

 elevatis breviter setosis, interstitiis sub-3-seriatim punctatis, lateribus fortiter, 

 margine depresso disperse punctatis ; subtus punctata, picea, pedibus piceo- 

 rufis. Long. 7-5 mm. 



Washington, D. C, two specimens found by Mr. Ulke ; Massachusetts, Mr. 

 Sanborn. Differs from the species of L o b i o p a (to which this genus is nearly 

 allied) not only by the less setose upper surface, but by the costate elytra ; 

 there is a series of large punctures between the convex surface of the elytra 

 and the depressed less coarsely punctured lateral margin The mentum, 

 though bisinuate in front, has the exterior angles more prolonged than in the 

 other species of the genus, so that it appears broadly emarginate. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Differs from the European A. m a r g i n a t a by its larger size and narrower 

 form. 



On examining a specimen of Lobiopa guttulata Lec.^ given me by Mr. B. 

 Billings, of Ottawa, C. W., I find that the antennal grooves are slightly conver- 

 gent, and do not follow the contour of the eyes as in Lobiopa undulata and 

 setulosa: it therefore appears to belong properly to Soronia Er. The tarsi 

 in both genera are narrow. 



CYLLODES Er. 



C. biplagiatus, rotundatus convexus, niger nitidus, subtiliter puncta- 

 tus, elytris plaga magna subbasali rotundata rufa ornatis, punctis paulo majo- 

 ribus striatim positis ; pygidio nudo ; an tennis rufo-testaceis, clava fusca. 

 Long. 5 mm. 



Two specimens were found on Mount Holyoke, Massachusetts, by Mr. Geo. 

 D. Smith, who has liberally placed one of them in ray collection. This species 

 differs from the European Cater by the large red spot on each elytron near 

 the base. 



The genus C y 1 1 o d e s is to be distinguished from the genera of Cychramini, 

 defined on p. 84 of my Classification Col. N. Am., by all the tarsi being 'di- 

 lated, and the prosternum produced behind the front coxae, covering the me- 

 sosternum in repose, and meeting the metasternum, which is somewhat promi- 

 nent between the middle coxae. The antennal grooves are short, not very well 

 marked, and converge on the under surface of the head. 



PITYOPHAGUS Shuckard. 



P. cephalotes, cylindricus, supra piceo-niger nitidus, fortiter punc- 

 tatus, capite convexo, lateribus pone oculos parvos rectis parallelis, thorace 

 capite baud latiore, latitudine paulo longiore, lateribus rectis, angulis baud 

 rotundatis, apice basique late rotundato, elytris stria suturali impressa, hu- 

 meris rectis prominulis, lateribus parallelis, aplce recte truncatis, pygidio 

 dense punctato, concavo ; corpore subtus, antennis pedibusque piceo-ferrugi- 

 neis. Long. 5-5 mm. 



One specimen, Columbia, Pennsylvania. This species resembles in form the 

 European P. ferrugineus, but differs in color. The sixth ventral segment 

 is quite distinct in the specimen, which is therefore a male. 



RHIZOPHAGUS, Herbst. 



R. cylindricus, elongatus cylindricus, transversim valde conrexus, 

 piceo-ferrugineus nitidus, elytris postice sensim infuscatis, capite thoraceque 

 fortiter hand dense punctatis, hoc paulo angustiore, latitudine fere sesqui 

 longiore lateribus rectis, angulis posticis rotundatis ; elytris striatim puncta- 

 tis, interstitiis laevibus, stria suturali postice impressa. Long. 5 mm. 



Mas capite majore, thorace ab apice postice sensim angustato ; abdominis 

 segmento 6to ventrali conspicuo. 



Femina capite baud latiore, thorace lateribus antice posticeque paulo 

 rotundatis. 



Tennessee, Mr. Ulke. Larger and more cylindrical than our other species. 



R. dimidiatus i/ann., Bull. Mosc, 1843, 300. I found a specimen on 

 Point Kewenaw, Lake Superior, which does not differ from two Russian 

 American specimens in my collection. 



R. bipunctatus. Colydium bipunctatum Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 iii. 325. 



Middle and Western States, and Canada. This species in the Melsheimer 

 Catalogue is properly referred to Rhizophagus, but by a strange mistake I 

 have in my edition of Say's Entomological Writings (ii. 183) referred it tQ 

 I p s, and again in the List of Coleoptera of North America (p. 30), to P i t y o- 

 p h ag u s. This last error is corrected in the errata at the end of the work. 



1866.] 




878 PROOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



R. a p p r X i m a t u 9 , linearis, minus convexus, piccns nitidus, capite 

 rufepconfe sat dense, thorace fortiter minus dense pnnctatis, hoc latitudine 

 liaud lon^iore, lateribus late rotundatis, augulis omnibus rotundatis, margine 

 apicali basalique rufescente ; elytris lateribus parallelis, apice late rotunda- 

 tis, striis e punctis majoribus approximatis compositis, bic inde subimpressis, 

 suturali postice impressa, interstitiis subrugosis ; subtus rufo-piceus, antennis 

 pedibusque piceo-ferrugineis. Long. 3 mm. 



One specimen from New York given me by Mr. Ulke. Larger than the 

 next, with the thorax broader, and the punctures of the strijje of the elytra 

 much more closely placed. This species agrees with the description of the 

 Russian American R. scalpturatus Mann., Bull. Mosc, 1852, 3G2, but on 

 account of the difference in locality it is unsafe at present to regard them as 

 identical. 



R. re mot us, linearis, modice convexus, nigro-piceus nitidus, capite sat 

 dense, thorace fortiter minus dense punctato, hoc latitudine vix longiore, 

 lateribus late rotundatis, angulis omnibus rotnndatis ; elytris lateribus sub- 

 parallelis, apice late rotundatis, striis hand impressis, e punctis majoribus 

 remotis compositis, suturali postice profunda, interstitiis laevibus ; subtus 

 rufo-piceus, antennis pedibusque piceo-ferrugineis. Long. 2-5 mm. 



Several specimens of this species were collected by Mr. Ulke in the moun- 

 tainous portion of central Pennsylvania. 



LASCONOTUS Er. 



L. laqueatus, linearis, depressus, nigro piceus, opacus, subtilissime 

 punctulatus, capite utrinque oblique impresso, impressionibus postice conni- 

 Tentibus, medio subcarinato, thorace latitudine paulo longiore, lateribus 

 parallelis postice rotundatis, disco excavato, costa utrinque elevata nee apicem 

 nee basin attingente, antice hamo elevato inclusa; elytris sutura, costis utrinque 

 tribus, quartaque interna basali brevi anguste elevatis, interstitiis subtiliter 

 biseriatim punctatis. Long. 3 mm. 



One specimen ; Arizona, Dr. Coues. Intermediate in size between L. c o m- 

 plex and L. pu sill us, and quite different from both by the characters 

 above detailed. The discoidal costse of the thorax are separated by a wide 

 excavation, as usual, and do not attain either the base or the apex ; in front 

 they are surrounded by a deep impression, limited by a hook-shaped elevated 

 line, the outer leg of which is a little longer. 



L. simplex, valde elongatus, cylindricus, piceus, opacus, pilis parcis 

 obsitus, capite antice late biimpresso, medio vix elevato, thorace punctato, 

 latitudine fere sesqui longiore, lateribus parallelis tenuiter marginatis, angulis 

 omnibus rotundatis, disco late sulcato, lineis elevatis solitis fere obsoletis ; 

 elytris sutura costisque utrinque quatuor elevatis, interstitiis biseriatim cri- 

 bratis. Long. 2-5 mm. 



One specimen from Cape San Lucas, Lower California ; Mr. Xantus. Easily 

 known by the cylindrical form, and the almost obsolete sculpture of the tho- 

 rax ; the usual discoidal costae and the hook-formed elevations surrounding 

 their anterior extremity can be barely traced. The four costae of the elytra 

 are acutely and equally elevated, and the intervals each marked with two 

 rows of quadrate punctures. 



AULONIUM Er. 



Au. lo n gii m , elongatum, ferrugineum, nitidum, vertice subtiliter bitu- 

 berculata, thorace punctulato latitudine longiore, punctulato, utrinque pro- 

 funde bistriato, abasi ad medium irregulariter biseriatim punctato, antice late 

 excavato, vage bituberculato, et utrinque costato ; elytris pone medium piceis, 

 punctulatis, striis subtiliter punctatis, hand impressis. Long. 4-'75 — 5*5 mm. 



Arizona, Dr. Coues. This species is as elongate as Au. tuberculatum, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



but has only two thoracic tubercles, which are less elevated than in Au. 

 parallelopipedum, though more distinct than in Au. ae q u i c o 1 1 e. 

 The striae of the elytra are composed of finer punctures than in these spe- 

 cies, though a little more distinct than in Au. tuberculatum. 



SYNCHITA Hellwig. 



S. laticollis Ditoma laticollis Lee. New spec, p. 66. 



The specimen which served as the type of the description had lost the an- 

 tennae, but so resembled in form, sculpture and coloration, our common D. 

 quadriguttatum, that I had no hesitation in referring it to the same 

 genus. I have since obtained a more perfect specimen, and find that the club 

 of the antenn.ie is solid; as the antennae are not received in grooves, I have 

 placed the species in Synchita. An approach to the Ditoma-like sculpture i8 

 seen in S. variegata Zee, but less decided than in the species in question. 



NAUSIBIUS Redt. 



N. repandus, linearis, depressus, fusco-piceus, subtiliter pubescens, 

 capite thoraceque confertim punctatis, illo lateribus baud reflexis, hoc lati- 

 tudine longiore, lateribus repandis, disco ante basin vix impresso ; elytris 

 confertim minus subtiliter seriatim punctatis, interstitiis angustis, vix elevatis ; 

 subtus fortiter punctatus. Long. 3-5 mm. 



Mr. Ulke has found at Washington, D. C, several specimens of Nausibius 

 differing from N. d e n t a t u s b^-^ the smaller size, narrower form, and much 

 stronger sculpture ; the upper surface of the head is uniformly and slightly 

 convex, not depressed and reflexed at the sides as in the last named species ; 

 the sides of the thorax are not toothed in outline ; the anterior angles promi- 

 nent, rounded, the hind angles acute, with four very feeble undulations be- 

 tween them. The tooth of the hind thighs is as prominent as in N. d e n t a t u s. 



LATHROPUS Er. 



A species of this genus has been found abundantly by Mr. Ulke, near 

 Washington, D. C, which by description I cannot distinguish from the 

 European L. sepicola, except that the alternate intervals of the elytra are 

 scarcely more elevated. 



I found several specimens at Fort Yuma, California, diflfering from those 

 given me by Mr. Ulke in being brown instead of black, the sides of the 

 thorax somev/hat more rounded, and more distinctly repand, and the alternate 

 intervals of the elytra distinctly more elevated. 



I am not prepared at present to discuss the value of these differences, and 

 therefore confine myself to making known the existence of the genus in North 

 America. 



Trogosita pusillima Mann., Bull. Mosc, 1843, p. 303, from Sitka, is 

 probably a species of Lathropus, but must differ, according to description, 

 by the thorax having a dorsal impressed line in addition to the lateral 

 ones. 



LiEMOPHLCEUS Lap. 



L. angustulus, linearis, subdepressus, testaceus, subtiliter pubes- 

 cens, capite thoraceque confertim punctatis, hoc latitudine fere sesqui longiore, 

 postice paulo angustato, utrinque unistriato ; elytris striatis, interstitiis uni- 

 seriatim punctatis ; antennis capite thoraceque baud longioribus, articulis 

 tribis ultimis majoribus. Long. 2 mm. 



Washington, D. C. ; Mr. Ulke. Narrower than our other species, approach- 

 ing in form a Silvanus. The thorax is nearly one-half longer than wide, 

 tolerably densely and strongly punctured ; it is slightly narrowed behind the 

 middle, and the angles are rectangular ; the lateral stria is well marked, and 

 the disc is marked with a vague longitudinal impression. 



1866.] 




880 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



This species belongs to the division with the scutellura transverse, and 

 the front very slightly emargiuate, and represents in North America L. clema- 

 tidis of Jilurope. 



ELMIS Latr. 



E. I ati iiscul us , oblongo-ovalis, pnulo convexus, niger supra nitidus, 

 subtilissime reticulatus, thorace latitudine summa breviore, a basi antrorsum 

 fortiter angustato, lateribus modice rotundatis, disco parce punctulato, lineis 

 a margine reuiotis antice convergentibus ; elytris punctato-striatis, intersti- 

 tiis parce uniseriatim punctulatis, lateribus carinatis ; anteunis pedibusque 

 rufis. Long. 15 mm. 



In the mountain region of Pennsylvania ; Mr. Ulke. This and the next 

 species belong to the second group of Erichson (Ins. Deutschl., iii. 527), not 

 before known to be represented in our fauna. The characters above given 

 easily distinguish it from the European species described in his work. The 

 punctures of the striae of the elytra are but little larger, though less distant 

 than those of the intervals. 



E. n i t i d u lu s , oblongo-ovalis, angustior, convexus, niger supra nitidus, 

 subtilissime reticulatus, parce subtiliter pubescens, thorace latitudine summa 

 haud breviore, a basi antrorsum, angustato, lateribus paulo rotundatis, disco 

 parce obsolete punctulato, lineis convergentibus ; elytris punctis magnis re- 

 motis seriatim positis, stria 4ta profunda, interstitiis uniseriatim punctulatis, 

 lateribus subcarinatis ; antennis pedibusque rufis. Long. 1-25 mm. 



New York ; Mr. Ulke. Smaller and narrower than the preceding, and 

 easily recognized by the different sculpture of the elytra. The punctures 

 representing striae are large and distant ; the fourth stria is deeply impressed, 

 so that the fourth interval is slightly elevated. The scutellum is almost or- 

 bicular in this species ; in E. 1 a t i u s c u 1 u s it is somewhat oblong, or oval, 

 while in our vittate species (E. vi t ta tus, bi v i t tatus and 4-n otatus) 

 it is elongate and triangular. I also observe that the base of the 

 prothorax is feebly emarginate in front of the scutellum in E. 1 at i u s c u 1 u s, 

 though much less so than in Limnius oval is and fastiditus. In L. 

 eleg ans, the scutellum is oval rather than orbicular, and in the List I have 

 placed that species in Elmis ; but it would be preferable to adopt the opinion 

 of Lacordaire, (Gen. Col. ii. 509), and regard the differences as not sufficient 

 to separate the genera. 



DORCUS McLeay. 



D. CO Stat us. In my List of Coleoptera of North America a new species 

 is mentioned under this name, but, by inadvertence, does not appear 

 in the Descriptions which accompany that work. On examining the single 

 female upon which I proposed to found the species, I am rather dis- 

 posed to regard it as an extreme variation of D. p a r a 1 1 e 1 u s. It agrees, 

 in form, size and sculpture, with that species, except as regards the elytra, 

 which are not deeply striate with convex intervals, but have the suture and 

 four narrow costae on each, elevated, shining and punctured ; the broad 

 spaces between these costae, and the whole of the apex, are deeply and densely 

 punctured. On close examination I perceive here and there faint remnants 

 of striae in the broad punctured spaces, and the difference in sculpture, so 

 striking at the first view, may be regarded as produced by the suppression of 

 some of the convex intervals between the striae* ofD. parallelus, the 

 suture, the third, sixth, ninth and outermost ones only being left. The spe- 

 cimen was found in western New York. 



CANTHON Hoffm. 

 C. indigaceus, ovalis, convexus, nigrocyaneus nitidus, clypeo nigri- 

 cante antice bidentato, margine anguste reflexo, confertim rugoso, elytris vix 

 obsolete striatis. Long. 10 mm. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 881 



Fort Whipple, Arizona, Dr. E. Coues, U. S. A. This species resembles, in 

 size and color, C. cyanellus Lee, but is more oval in form, and differs 

 by the surface being free from punctures, and by the form of the clypeus, 

 which inC. cyanellus is four-toothed, with the margin scarcely reflexed, 

 while in the present species it is formed as in C. Isevis. The eyes are 

 narrow ; the margin of the thorax is scarcely interrupted on the under sur- 

 face near the anterior angles, the tubercle seen in most species being nearly 

 effaced, though not absolutely wanting, as in C. cyanellus, simplex 

 and some others. 



C. puncticollis, rotundato-ovatus, antice convexus, ater opacus, sub- 

 tiliter reticulatus, clypeo obtuse 6-dentato, margine reflexo, capite parce punc- 

 tato, antice rugoso, thorace parce et profunde, licet hand fortiter punctato, 

 lateribus medio angulatis ; elytris depressis, striis distinctis, interstitiis granu- 

 lis vix elevatis parcis obsitis. Long. 6 — 7 ram. 



Two specimens, Cape San Lucas, Lower California, Mr. Xantus. This spe- 

 cies has the appearance of small specimens ofC. praticola Zee, and, like 

 it, has the eyes narrow, and the margin of the prothorax interrupted on the 

 under surface by a well-marked tubercle, but differs from it as from all the 

 other species in my collection, having the last mentioned character, by the dis- 

 tinct punctulation of the head and thorax. The color is a dull black, as in 

 C. praticola; each elytron is slightly bituberculate at the base near the 

 scutellum in both specimens, but more distinctly so in the larger. 



COPRIS Geoffroy. 



C. remotus, cylindrico-ovalis, niger nitidus, capite punctato, clypeo 

 semicirculari, antice remote obtuse bidenticulato, thorace canaliculato irregu- 

 lariter punctato ; elytris interstitiis con vexis Isevibus, striis subtilibus punc- 

 tatis. Long. 14 mm. 



Mas capite cornu cylindrico erecto frontali, thorace tuberculis quatuor 

 magnis externis compressis, intermediis conicis ; fovea magna utrinque 

 versus latera, plicaque brevi armato. Femina latet. 



Texas, near the Rio Grande, two specimens. This species resembles, in the 

 armature of the head and thorax, C. m o e c h u s and C. anaglypticus, 

 but differs essentially from them by the clypeus being not incised at the tip, 

 but armed with two distant small obtuse teeth ; the punctures of the thorax 

 are larger and unequally distributed, the greater portion of the surface being 

 smooth ; the medial tubercles are distant, and not united ; the intervals 

 between the striae are smooth and convex, the striae themselves very fine, and 

 marked each with a row of punctures extending transversely. 



GEOTRUPES Latr. 



I have mentioned in the List, under the MS. name G. retusus McLeay^ 

 a remarkable species found, in the Southern States, under decomposing fungi. 

 It is not described in the monograph of Geotrupes by Mr. Jekel,^ and, in 

 fact, constitutes a group distinct from any of those characterized by him. 



The elytra are broadly ovate, very convex, connate and destitute of striae ; 

 the clypeus is semicircular, with the lobes before the eyes large and rounded ; 

 the front in the (^ is armed with a short horn or acute tubercle, which m the 

 9 is reduced to a feeble elevation ; the prothorax of the (^ is flattened and 

 declivous before the middle, and longitudinally broadly excavated, thus pro- 

 ducing a transverse somewhat lunate elevation about the middle ; in the 

 female a slight dorsal channel is seen, and a feebly-impressed fovea each side, 

 half way between the middle and the lateral fovea. The apical tooth of the 

 anterior tibiae of the (j^ is broadly emarginate at tip, and prolonged inwards 

 into a slender acute process. The middle tarsi of J* are slightly larger than 



*Anual^B de la Soc. Entomologique de France, 1855, p. 513. 



1866.] 




S83 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



those of 9> ^"* "ot thickened as in G. splendid us and its allies; the 

 upper Hurfa(^e is opaque and very densely granulated ; the second joint of the 

 autennal dub is normal, that is, not received in tlie first. If a name for this 

 group is considered desirable, it may be called Mycotrupes. 



G. retusus, nigro-aneus opacus, confertissime granulatus, fronte cornu 

 brevi vel tuberculo arraato, thorace antice fortius angustato, lateribus autice 

 obliquis, postice incurvatis, margine lateral! retlexo, basi utrinque sinuata, 

 angulis posticis retrorsum paulo productis, disco convexo, prope basin fere 

 retuso ; elytris fortiter marginatis, haud striatis, thorace vix lougioribus. 

 Long. 14-5 — 17 mm. 



From North Carolina to Louisiana ; rare. The sides of the thorax are 

 curved inwards for the hinder third of their length ; they converge obliquely 

 forwards from the broadest part, which is behind the middle. 



CYCLOCEPHALA Latr. 



C. m a n c a , supra fusca, nitida glabra, thoracis lateribus, scutello stri- 

 gisque elytrorum utrinque duabus abbreviatis pallidis ; clypeo parabolico, 

 anguste marginato, antennis 9-articulatis. Long. 19-5 mm. ; lat. 9-5 mm. 



Mas tarsis anticis iucrassatis, ungue interno majore, crassiore, apice fisso, 

 antennarum clava haud elongata. 



One male, Arizona, Dr. Coues, U. S. A, This species has an elongate form, 

 being somewhat similar in size and form to Chalepus trachypygus. The color 

 above is dark brown, the sides of the thorax and two short vittae on each elytron 

 are pale yellow ; the scutellum is pale yellow, margined behind with brown ; 

 the head is moderately punctured, the clypeus parabolic and very narrowly 

 margined ; the palpi and antennas are brown, the latter have but nine joints, 

 the sixth being thicker but not longer than the third ; the club is a little 

 longer than the joints 2, — 7 together, but does not present the elongate form 

 seen in the males of our other species ; the thorax is twice as wide as long, 

 gradually narrowed in front, rounded on the sides, finely and sparsely punc- 

 tured, sides pale, with a large brown cloud connected with the ground color of 

 the disc ; elytra sparsely punctured, punctures finer towards the tip ; a faint 

 trace of a discoidal elevated stripe may be seeii, outside of which are two 

 parallel pale yellow vittse occupying the middle third of the length ; pygidium 

 and pectus testaceous, hairy ; abdomen brown ; the last segment and hind 

 margin of penultimate yellow ; feet testaceous ; trochanters, knees, margin 

 of tibiae and tarsi brown. 



LIGYRUS Burm. 



L. rugiceps Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1856, p. 21. For excel- 

 lent specimens of this species, found in Louisiana, I am indebted to Mr. Ulke. 

 The thorax is comparatively larger than in L. relict us, with the sides 

 more rounded in front, and nearly parallel behind ; the punctures of the 

 thorax and of the elytral rows are larger, shallower and more umbilicated 

 than in L. relict u s, and those of the intervals smaller ; the color is duller 

 black. The difference in size is considerable, the present species being but 

 13*5 mm. long., while L. relict us is from 18 — 22 mm. I observe no 

 sexual differences in the specimens before me. This species has been acci- 

 dentally omitted in the List. 



STRATEGUS Hope. 



S. cessu s , elongato-ovalis, supra nigro-piceus, nitidus, capite confertira 

 punctato, fronte transversim carinata, clypeo triangulari apice rotundato, tho- 

 race ovate ad medium circulariter excavato, pone apicem transversim breviter 

 cornuto ((j^) vel tuberculato 9 ; corpore ferrugineo, tibiarum margine tar- 

 sisque obscuris, mandibulis haud dentatis. Long. 31 mm. ; lat. 17 mm. 



Arizona, Dr. Coues. Two other specimens are in Mr. Ulke's collection. 



[Dec, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



This species resembles in form S. splend ens, and, like it, presents 

 no great sexual differences. It differs from that, as from all other 

 species of the genus known to me, by the mandibles being broadly 

 truncate at tip, with the outer angle rounded. I may remark, in passing, 

 that the J^ of S. s p 1 e n d e n s resembles very much the $ of S. J u 1 i a n u s, 

 but may be easily distinguished by the form of the clypeus, which in the 

 latter is more acute and subtruncate at tip, while in the former it is less 

 acute, and more rounded. The excavation of the prothorax likewise retains 

 in the 9 of S. Julianus a subtrianguiar form, while iuS. splendens 

 it is quite circular. 



PHILEURUS Latr. 



P. i 1 1 a t u s Lee. On renewed examination of the fragments upon which 

 I established this species, with specimens of P. v i t u 1 u s Lee, N. Sp. p. 80. 

 from Cape San Lucas, I am convinced that they are identical ; the latter 

 name should therefore be suppressed. The species is commoa to the region 

 of the Colorado Desert, and Lower California, and is another example of the 

 propriety of including the latter province within the zoological, as it will 

 eventually be within the political, boundaries of the United States. 



ANCYLOCHIRA Esch. 



In my revision of the Buprestidse of the United States, I have divided the 

 species of this genus into two groups. The first contains those in which the 

 anterior tibiae are emarginate internally in the male, and hooked at the ex- 

 tremity ; the last three dorsal segments of both sexes are rounded ; the fifth 

 ventral segment varies in form, according to sex ; the thorax is sometimes 

 subcarinate, but never channeled. The second contains the species having 

 the tibise alike in both sexes ; the antepenultimate dorsal segirent is trun- 

 cate or emarginate ; and the fifth ventral is alike in both sexes, broadly trun- 

 cate, with the angles slightly prolonged ; the thorax is always feebly chan- 

 nelled. A. sexplagiata,Langii and fasciata, which, in the List, 

 are placed in the first division, should be transferred to the second. 



ACM^ODERA Esch. 



A. amplicollis, robusta cuneiformis, aenea, vel cyaneo-aenea, punc- 

 tata, supra pube longa erecta villosa, subtus laxe cinereo-pubescens, thorace 

 longitudine triplo latiore, lateribus valde obliquis parum rotundatis, fortiter 

 marginatis, ad basin elytris latiore, fortiter punctato, medio canaliculato et tri- 

 angulariter excavato, ad basin utrinque excavato, vitta lata submarginali a 

 basi fere ad apicem extensa, flava: elytris nigris, vitta dorsali abbreviata, cum 

 altera matginali postice connexa, fasciisque posticis plus minusve connexis 

 flavis ; striis grosse punctatis, iuterstitiis angustis convexis uniseriatim 

 punctulatis. Long. 10—12 mm. 



Fort Whipple, Arizona, Dr. Coues. At first sight this species resembles 

 the Texan A. semivittata Lcc, but it differs very much in the form of 

 the thorax, by the elytra being narrowed behind from the base, and by the 

 striae being formed of very coarse punctures. It resembles, in the form of the 

 thorax, A. flavomarginata and opacula, but is more robust than 

 those species ; as in them the last ventral segment has an acute submarginal 

 crest around the tip. 



A. decipiens, subcuneiformis, nigro-aenea, punctata, pilis longis nigris 

 erectis villosa, subtus laxe cinereo-pubescens, thorace longitudine triplo latiore, 

 prope basin elytris latiore, lateribus rotundatis acute marginatis, vitta sub- 

 marginali antice aV)breviata flava ornato, grosse punctato, medio canaliculato, 

 et triangulariter vage excavato, utrinque oblique excavato ; elytris a basi sub- 

 angustatis, versus apicem sensim rotundatim attenuatis, nigro-seneis fasciis 

 transversis varie connexis variegatis, striis antice punctatis haud impressis, 



1866.] 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



pone medium exaratis, interstitiis uniseriatim subtilius punotatls. Long. 

 10 mm. 



Cue specimen, Arizona, Dr. Couos. This species resembles A. variegata 

 in t\u) marking of the elytra, ami general form of the body, but differs 

 essentially in the form and excavations of the thorax ; the sides are consider- 

 ably rounded, less oblique than in A. connexa, less suddenly and less 

 strongly incurved at the hind angles ; the transverse submarginal crest of the 

 last ventral segment is very short, almost as in A. o r n a t a. 



AGRILUS Sol. 



A. Couesii, viridigeneus, capite nitido, fortiter punctato, fronte bitu- 

 berculato, vertice transversim valde excavato, thorace obscuro, rugose punc- 

 tato, costis elevatis duabus politis, sulco dorsali maximo lateribusque oblique 

 excavatis, his albo pubescentibus, lateribus fere rectis angulis posticis cari- 

 natis ; elytris confertim punctatis, sutura costaqiie utrinque dorsali fere ad 

 apicem extensa, elevatis Isevibus obscuris, sulco subsuturali breviter cinereo- 

 pubescente, spatiis duabus laevibus nitidis versus apicem ornato, apice parce 

 spinosis ; subtus maculis argenteo-pubescentibus variegatus. Long. 11 mm. 



One specimen, Arizona. It gives me pleasure to commemorate the valued 

 labors of Dr. Coues in Arizona by dedicating to him this beautiful species. It 

 is of a more tropical form than any other in my collection, and is easily recog- 

 nized by the characters given above ; the two spots in the elytral sulcus unite 

 the elevated suture and the discoidal costa ; one is at the end of the latter, and 

 the other a little anterior. The scutellum is of the usual form, but is deeply 

 excavated and punctured in the middle, and not transversely carinate ; the 

 ungues are armed with a large tooth, which is not acute at tip. This species 

 is to be placed as a distinct group, before A. bilineatus, (Vide Lee. Trans. 

 Am. Phil. Soo. xi. 242.) 



A. cuneus, linearis, postice angustior, seneus, opacus, capite convexo, 

 confertim punctato, vix canaliculate, thorace latitudine hand breviore, lateri- 

 bus fere rectis, postice paulo angustato, angulis posticis longe carinatis, disco 

 ^confertim punctato et transversim rugoso, medio obtuse canaliculato, lateri- 

 bus anguste depressis ; elytris versus suturam longitudinaliter impressis, ab 

 humeris sensim angustatis, apice serratis et singillatim rotundatis, confertim 

 aequaliter granulatis ; subtus seneus nitidus, subtiliter punctatus, abdomine 

 antice late canaliculato. Long. 5 mm. 



Texas ; one specimen in the collection of Mr. Ulke. This species belongs 

 to the division having the claws distant, and armed with a broad, not very 

 prominent tooth. 



XENORHIPIS Lee. (n. g. Buprestidse.) 



X. Brendeli, seneo-ater, opacus, capite thoraceque reticulatim punctatis, 

 hoc quadrato, subtilius canaliculato, ante medium transversim impresso, ely- 

 tris granulis elevatis asperatis, margine prsecipue postice serrulatis, plaga ba- 

 sali pallida ornatis. Long. 5 mm. 



One specimen, Peoria, Illinois ; collected by Dr. E. Brendel and communi- 

 cated to me by Mr. H Ulke. 



This new genus has the general form and sculpture of Anthaxia, but differs 

 from that as from all other Buprestidae by the antennse being pectinate. 



Body elongate, dull black, with a brassy tinge ; head and thorax sculptured 

 with shallow reticulations (as in Anthaxia) ; the former convex, with a broad 

 medial furrow; antennse longer than head and thorax, black, 11-jointed, first 

 joint obconical, second and following about equal in length, produced exter- 

 nally into a long process, which is near the base in the second joint, but gra- 

 dually changes its position until it becomes apical in the tenth joint ; eleventh 

 joint similar in length and form to the ramus of the tenth joint. Thorax 

 quadrate, wider than its length, with the angles acute ; slightly convex, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



sculptured as the "head, slightly channeled, and marked with a strong trans- 

 verse impression just before the middle : apical and basal margins bisinuate- 

 sides slightly rounded in front andsubsinuate behind. Elytra rough with ele- 

 vated points, sides serrate, more distinctly toward the tips, which are sepa 

 rately i ounded ; broadly impressed each side at the base, and ornamente I 

 with a large pale spot, which extends nearly one-third the length, an i lades 

 insensibly into the black ground color. 



Body beneath black, somewhat shining, under surface of prothorax reticu- 

 late, of trunk granulate like the upper surface. Feet piceous, hind tarsi with 

 the first joint as long as the others united, third and fourth joint with short 

 membranous lobes ; ungues simple. 



The antennae are inserted under small oblique ridges, the front is not dilated. 

 The mentum is broad, transverse, and apparently rounded in front. The pro- 

 sternum behind the coxse is narrow, not angulated on the sides, acute at tip ; 

 the mesosternum is completely divided, and is not connate with the metaster- 

 num ; the side pieces of the latter are moderately broad, the epimera not cov- 

 ered by the abdomen, and the sternum itself is marked each side with a large 

 hairy depression. The hind coxse are broad, scarcely narrowed externally, 

 and extend not quite to the side of the abdomen. The last ventral segment 

 is emarginate. 



I consider this genus as representing a new group of the tribe Buprestini 

 (Lee. Class. Col. 151), between Buprestes and Anthaxise. 



DYSTAXIA Lee. (n. g. Buprestidse). 



D. Murray!, elongato ovalis, convexa, l»te viridi-senea, capite thorace- 

 que confertim punctatis, hoc trapezoideo a basi antrorsum angustato, longi- 

 tudine plus duplo latiore, lateribus obliquis rectis, basi bisinuato, angulis 

 posticis acutis ; elytris thorace paulo latioribus, confertissime punctatis et subti- 

 liter cinereo p.ubescentibus ; subtus confertim punctata, pube alba dense ves- 

 tita, antennis pedibusque laete rufo testaceis. Long. 14 mm. 



One female from California, presented to me by Andrew Murray, Esq. This 

 new genus is founded upon an insect of rather stout form, having the elytra a 

 little wider than the thurax, parallel and finely margined on the sides, round- 

 ed and not serrate at tip ; having the claws armed with a large but not very 

 acute tooth, and the membranous appendage of the fourth tarsal joint deeply 

 divided into two narrow lobes, as in S c h i z o p u s. 



The head is short and convex, the antennae inserted under very slight fron- 

 tal ridges, and are feebly serrate in the female; the joints 1 — 4 are smooth 

 and shining, the following ones slightly porous, and feebly pabesoent on the 

 sides. The eyes are transverse, elliptical, moderate in size, and finely granu- 

 lated. The labrum is small and deeply emarginate ; the mandibles are short 

 and very stout ; palpi broken. The thorax is trapezoidal, sides straight, with 

 the lateral margin well marked behind the middle; base broadly bisinuate, 

 hind angles acute ; scutellum transverse, acute at tip. Elytra destitute of 

 striae, each broadly rounded at the base, fitting closely the basal outline of the 

 thorax ; wider than the thorax, parallel and finely margined at the sides, ob- 

 tusely rounded at tip. Prosternum short, slightly produced over the meso- 

 sternum, obtusely rounded at tip; mesosternum short, side pieces large, ex- 

 tending to the coxse ; metasternum sliort, posterior outline sinuate, with an 

 oblique engraved line near the inner half ; episterna wide, epimera very small. 

 Anterior and middle coxae small : trochantin indistinct or wanting ; hind coxae 

 extending nearly to the side of the abdomen, slightly wider inwards. Legs 

 slender, femora unarmed, tibiae with small spurs ; tarsi shorter than the tibiae, 

 joints 1 — 4 with membranous lobes beneath, second lobe slightly emarginate, 

 third lobe deeply emarginate, fourth lobe bilobed and much longer, claw joint 

 moderately long, claws armed with a tooth near the tip. Abdomen with five 

 ventral segments, the first and second connate, the fifth rounded at tip. 



18(36.] 25 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



A careful comparison of this singular insect with Schizopus Irotns/yrc. 

 (figured in Thomson's Arcana Naturre pi. xiii. f. 4), shows that, apart from 

 tlie form and number of the last ventral segments, and the less strongly ser- 

 rate antenna?, which are sexual characters, the two genera difl'er very sli<ihtly ; 

 the side margin of the thorax is indistinct, even towards the base in Schizopus, 

 and the sides themselves are somewhat curved ; the scutellum is less trans- 

 verse, the punctuation of the upper surface is coarser, and the pubescence of 

 the under surface less dense ; the membranous lobes of the first, second and 

 third tarsal joints are much less developed; and the labrum is somewhat 

 larger, though also emarginate. On comparing D y s t a x i a with an ordinary 

 Buprestide (one of the second division of A n cy 1 o c h i ra for instance), there is 

 seen to be almost no difference in the head, except that the mandibles are 

 thicker and more obtuse, as many other genera of Buprestidje ; the prosternum 

 fits less accurately to the mesosternum ; the trochantins of the front and 

 middle coxte are less distinct, and the hind coxjb are less dilated inwards. All 

 these are characters of feeble importance, and the only really well marked 

 distinctions, of more than generic value, consist in the divided membranous 

 tarsal lobes, and the toothed ungues. The last character is seen in several 

 genera of Buprestidje, and the former is certainly insufficient for more than a 

 secondary division of the family. 



I therefore conclude that the family Schizopodidse must be suppressed, and 

 that Schizopus and Dystaxia must be associated as a separate tribe, which 

 may be placed after Buprestini, under the name Schizopini, and characterized 

 ..by the lobe of the fourth tarsal joint being cleft. 



STETHON Lee. (n. g. Eucnemidffi). 



"S. pectorosus, cylindricus, antice paulo latior, piceus baud nitidus, 

 supra confertim punctatus, brevissime pubescens, capite magno, fronte obso- 

 lete canaliculata, thorace latitudine vix breviore utrinque obsolete bifoveato, et 

 pone ttiedium obsolete canaliculato; elytris striatis, antennis, palpis pedibusque 

 obscure rufis. Long. 8 mm. 



Two specimens of this species were found by Mr. M. Schuster, in central 

 Illinois, one of which he has kindly placed in my collection. 



This genus is readily distinguished by the following characters : Head 

 large, eyes not touching the anterior margin of the prothorax; epistoma broad, 

 emarginate each side for the reception of the antennje, which are distant, 

 11 jointed ; first joint long, as usual, second very short, third twice as long as 

 wide, 4 — 10 quadrate, gradually shorter, more transverse, and slightly 

 narrowed inwards, eleventh rounded at tip, one-half longer than the preceding. 

 Maxillary palpi compressed, last joint securiform. Prothorax with a deep 

 channel beneath the lateral margin, for the reception of the antennae, this 

 channel sharply terminated under the hind angles ; side pieces excavated be- 

 hind for the reception of the anterior legs; prosternum very broad,. strongly 

 margined in front, lateral sutures much curved, convex outwards, not exca- 

 vated, posterior process broad, acuminate at tip. Metasternum with the side 

 pieces very narrow ; hind coxae broad, somewhat dilated internally, and ob- 

 tusely angulated. Last ventral segment obtusely acuminate at tip. Legs 

 short, tarsi not lobed. beneath, first joint as long as the four following united, 

 claws not toothed. 



It resembles Oth<j (known to me only by figure and description), but 

 differs by the third joint of the antennae being longer than the fourtlj, by the 

 antennae being less approximate and not pectinate, and by the form of the hind 

 coxae. I infer also that the sutures of the prosternum are different in direc- 

 tion, since such an important character would not have been overlooked in 

 the description of the European genus. It has also strong relations with 

 D en drocharis, from which it differs by the non pectinate antennae, and 

 : simple tarsi, as well as by the epistoma being distinctly emarginate for the 

 .insertion of the antennae, and by the eyes not touching the prothorax. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 387 



FORNAX Lap. 



F. b a s a 1 i s , niger, elongatus, subcuneiformis, dense subtiliter puncta- 

 tus, nigro-pubescens ; elytris vix striatis, basi late cinereo-pubescentibus, tho- 

 race latitudine paulo longiore, pone medium canaliculato, et triangulariter 

 late excavato. Long. 8 mm. 



California ; Mr. Akburst ; specimens were also obtained by Dr. Horn. This 

 species is more robust than F. cy lin dricoU is, to which it bears resem- 

 blance on account of the sculpture and thoracic impression, but it differs by 

 the grooves for the reception of the antennae being feeble, and ill defined, and 

 by the fourth tarsal joint being not at all dilated. It agrees with F. c y 1 i n- 

 dricollis in having the third antennal joint twice as long as the fourth, 

 and in the ungues being not toothed. 



F. calceatus belongs to the genus Dromaeolus Kies., which, as ap- 

 pears to me, should not be separated from Fornax ; to those who regard it as 

 distinct, the name Isarthrus Lee. (Froc. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi. 48) will re- 

 commend itself on the ground of priority. 



MICRORHAGUS Esch. 



M. rufiolus, fusco-ferrugineus, helvo-pubescens, capite fortiter, tho- 

 raceque sat dense punctatis, hoc latitudine paulo breviore, lateribus rectis 

 parallelis, angulis posticis productis carinatis, ante basin breviter subcarinato ; 

 elytris a basi sensin attenuatis, apice rotundatis, punctatis, obsolete striatis ; 

 prothoracis margine superior e brevi antice ambiente, inferioread apicem paulo 

 abbreviata ; antennis elongatis, vix serratis, articulis 2 et 3 aequalibus, brevi- 

 bus, 4to conjunctis paulo longiore. Long. 5 mm. 



Ohio; several specimens were collected by Mr. H. S. Fay, one of which was 

 kindly given me by Mr. Dike. The small size of the third antennal joint, 

 which is scarcely longer than the second, readily distinguishes this species 

 from those previously described. The upper marginal line of the thorax is 

 very short, the lower one extends from the base almost to the tip : the hind 

 angles are strongly carinate, and the carinse are straight. 



M. pectinatus, linearis, vix cuneiformis, piceus, helvo-pubescens, 

 capite confertim punctato, subcanaliculato, thorace latitudine breviore, antror- 

 sum subangustato, lateribus perparum rotundatis, linea marginali superiore 

 Integra, angulis posticis deplanatis, disco sat dense profunde punctato ; ely- 

 tris profunde punctatis, vix obsolete striatis ; antennis rufo-piceis, pedibus 

 pallidioribus. Long. 4 mm. 



Mas antennis pube erecta villosis, articulis 3 — 10 apice ramo cylindrico 

 munitis. 



York Co., Pennsylvania ; kindly given me by Prof. L. Agassiz. This spe- 

 cies, by the entire upper marginal line of the thorax, and the pectinate an- 

 tennae, differs from all the other native species knowii to me ; in these charac- 

 ters it resembles M. p y g m se u s of Europe, but on comparison the sculpture 

 of the prothorax appears quite different ; in the latter the punctures are large 

 and shallow, while in M. pectinatus they are smaller and deep. 



HYPOCCBLUS Esch. 



H. terminalis, elongatus, ater opacus, confertissime punctatus, sub- 

 tiliter helvo pubescens, capite dense punctato subtiliter carinato, thorace 

 latitudine vix breviore, a basi antrorsum paulo angustato, lateribus ante 

 medium paulo rotundatis, dorso postice subcanaliculato, angulis posticis 

 acutis, obsolete bicarinatis ; elytris confertim rugose punctatis, substriatis ; 

 antennis pedibusque rufo-piceis, illis articulo ultimo prsecedentibus duobus 

 longiore. Long. 4 mm. 



Ottawa, Canada ; Mr, Billings, This little species resembles in size and 



1866.] 




888 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



form EnciioTiiiH am a> n ico mi s, but is readily distinguished both bj the 

 geiiorio Hud specific characters. 



The anteniiro are about half the length of the body ; the first joint is rather 

 stout, and reaches to the hind margin of the eyes, the second is small, the 

 third about one-third longer than the fourth ; the joints 4 — 10 gradually in- 

 crease slightly in length and thickness, and the eleventh is longer than the 

 ninth and tenth united, parallel on the sides, and obtusely rounded at tip ; 

 the intlexed portion of tlie prothorax is broadly but distinctly concave, midway 

 between the prosternal suture and tlie side margin, for the reception of the 

 basal portion of the antenna? ; the prosternal sutures are deep, and the poste- 

 rior spine rather broad. The hind cox® are gradually but strongly dilated 

 inwards, and broadly truncate behind, almost exactly as in Euc. a m oe n i c or 

 ni s. Firtit joint of middle and hind tarsi as long as the others united ; fourth 

 joint not dilated, claws small, simple. 



The fine carina of the head extends from between the antenna to the occi- 

 put, and might, without careful observation, be regarded as an impressed 

 line. 



Eucnemis f r o n to s u s Say seems to be better placed in this genus than in 

 Nematodes, to which, in the List, I have referred it. The first joint of the 

 antenn£B is much stouter than in N. atropos and penetrans; the in- 

 flexed portion of the prothorax is wider, and the prosternal spine is broader 

 and more obtuse. 



Epiphanis cornutus Esch. Many specimens of this species were found 

 by Mr. Ulke in the mountains of Central Penneylvania. I have also seen spe- 

 cimens from Canada. 



NEMATODES Latr. 



N. simplex, fusco ferrugineus, elongatus, minus subtiliter helvo-pubes- 

 cens, capite oonfertim punctato, antice valde convexo, thorace latitudine fere 

 longiore, antrorsum subangustato, lateribus rectis, confertim punctato, postice 

 vage subcanaliculato ; elytris ab humeris subangustatis, striatis, interstitiis 

 confertim punctatis ; subtus punctatus, propectore baud sulcato, tarsorum 

 articulo 4to simplici ; antennis articulis 3 — 10 a?qualibus. Long. 7*5 mm. 



Uue specimen from New York in the collection of Mr. Ulke. Resembles in 

 appearance Agriotes oblongicollis. This species differs from those pre- 

 viously described by the entire absence of vague grooves for the reception of 

 part of the antennae, and by the fourth joint of the tarsi not being dilated or 

 lobed. The first joint of the hind tarsi is as long as the three following. 



CEROPHYTUM Latr. 



C. c on ve xi colle, subcylindricus, niger opacus, tenue pubescens, 

 dense fortiter punctatus, thorace longitudine plus duplo latiore, lateribus valde 

 rotundatis, angulis posticis baud prominulis ; antennarum artiiulo 3io lato 

 triangulari, 4to et 5to ad medium obtuse ramosis, tibiis tarsisque obscure 

 ferrugineis. Long. 7 mm. 



One male specimen was sent me by my friend the late Dr. Schaum, as found 

 at Sacramento, California. It resembles closely the male of C. pulsator, 

 but the thorax is more rounded on the sides, especially behind the middle, so 

 that the hind angles are much less obvious ; the third joint of the antennsB is 

 also quite different in form, being triangular, with the outer angle obtusely 

 and slightly produced ; the fourth and fifth joints are produced at the middle 

 of tbe outer margin into obtuse processes ; the processes of the outer 

 joints originate near the base of each joint ; in C. pulsator all the 

 processes originate at the base of their respective joints, and the third joint is 

 not different in form from the fourth. The tibioD and tarsi are tinged with 

 ferruginous. 



[rec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



ADELOCERA Latr. 



A. pyrsolepis, castauea, confertim punctata, squamis fulvis dense teela, 

 panels ni^ris intermixtis, thorace latitudine hand longiore, antice angustato, 

 lateribus ante medium rotundatis, angulis posticis parvis, divergentibus, haud 

 carinatis, medio late canaliculate ; elytris dorso depressis, punctis nigris mar- 

 moratis; subtus, antennis pedibusque fuscis. Long. 13 mm. 



New Mexico ; one specimen from New Mexico in Mr. Ulke's collection. 

 Allied to A. ror u lent a Zee, but differs by the more robust form, brown 

 color, more dense golden fulvous scales, and by the less elongate thorax 

 having the hind angles divergent. It agrees nearly with the description of 

 the European A. lepidoptera, as given by Candeze (Elat. 1. 52), except 

 that there is no impression each side of the dorsal channel of the thorax. 



A. maculata, nigra, supra nigro-squamosa, confertim punctata, macu- 

 lis pallide aureo squamosis ornata, thorace latitudine longiore, convexo, 

 antice angustato, lateribus parallelis antice rotundatis, angulis posticis rectis 

 planis, haud divergentibus ; elytris extrorsum obsolete striatis, dorso vix 

 depressis ; subtus pallide squamosa, antennis pedibusque fuscis. Long. 

 13 mm. 



One specimen found near Philadelphia, by J. Johnson Brown, Esq., and 

 another at Washington, D. C, by Mr. Ulke. Related to A. a v i t a, but differs 

 V)v the pale scales not being uniformly diffused, but aggregated into spots. 

 The thorax is scarcely channeled, and is ornamented with four discoidal 

 patches of pale golden scales ; the sides, and to a less extent the apex, are 

 sprinkled with similar scales. The elytra are slightly depressed towards the 

 suture, and are feebly striate towards the base and sides ; there are small 

 scattered patches of pale goliien scales, and two spots placed near the sides at 

 three-fourths of the length of the elytra, forming an oblique sinuous short 

 fascia ; another spot is seen on the side near the apex. The front is not con- 

 cave ; the antennae are fuscous, and extend to about the middle of the thorax. 

 The feet are fuscous, and the tarsal grooves of the under surface of the pro- 

 thorax are distinct, though not well defined. The under surface of the body 

 is uniformly though not densely clothed with pale scales. 



ALAUS Esch. 



A. m e 1 a n o p s Lee. New Spec. Col. N. Am. 83 (March, 1863), is A. n a j a 

 Candeze, Mem. Acad. Roy. Belgique, xvii. p. 18 (1864). 



CRYPT0HYPNU3 Esch. 



C. quadripustulatus Germ., Zeitsch. Ent., v. 142; Candeze, Mon. 

 El., iii. 76. Elater quadr. Fabr., Syst. El., ii. 248. 



Specimens which agree with the descriptions of this European species were 

 found by Mr. Ulke at Washington ; they all belong to the variety in which 

 only the humeral spot of the elytra is present. The resemblance in form to a 

 small Cardiophorus, mentioned by Candeze, is very striking. 



C. g e n t i 1 i s , niger, pube brevi subtili flavo-cinerea vestitus, thorace 

 confertim subtiliter punctato, linea dorsali vix couspicua, latitudine vix 

 breviore, a medio antrorsum angustato, et lateribus rotundato, angulis posti- 

 cis acutis, haud divaricatis, breviter carina'is, apice testaceis ; elytris striatis, 

 interstitiis convexis, dense punctulatis, utrinque maculis duabus ttavis orna- 

 tis ; sutura postice, epipleuris, tibiis tarsisque testaceis ; femoribus autenuis- 

 que piceis, his articulo 3io 2ndo paulo longiore. Long. 3-5 mm. 



Nebraska ; two specimens were received by Mr. Ulke, one of wliich he has 

 kindly placed in my collection. In the male the thorax is a little wi'ler just 

 in front of the base, so that the hind angles appear somewhat divergent, and 

 the antennae are slightly longer than in the female. The anterior elytral spot 



1866.] 




890 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



extends from the humerus backwards, about one third the length of the ely- 

 tron, growing broader posteriorly, and inclining towards the suture ; the pos- 

 terior spot is transverse, reaching neither the suture nor the side, and is placed 

 about the posterior third of the length. 



In form this species is similar to C. c h o r i s, from which it differs altogether 

 by its sculpture. 



MEGAPENTHES Kies. 



M. angularis, fusco rufescens nitidus, dense helvo-pubescens, tho- 

 race latitudine paulo longiore, lateribus postice parallelis, antice rotundatis, 

 disco convexo sat dense punctato, punctis umbilicatis, postice vix canaliou- 

 lato, angulis posticis fortiter bicarinatis ; elytris striis punctatis, inters tit iis 

 baud convexis, rugose punctatis, antennis pedibusque paulo pallidioribus, 

 illis articulis 2 et 3 conjunctis 4to baud brevioribus. Long. 10 mm. 



One specimen ; Missouri. This specimen agrees with the description of M. 

 modestus Cand., Mon. El., ii. 507, from northern Hindoostan, except that 

 the thorax is scarcely channeled near the base, and that the antennae can 

 hardly be said to be ferruginous, nor the feet red. 



ANCHASTUS Lee. 



A. bi color, ferragineus, subtilius pubescens, capite thoraceque sat 

 dense punctatis, hoc latitudine fere longiore, angulis posticis vix divergenti- 

 bus, unicarinatis, lateribus rectis prope apicem rotundatis, disco convexo 

 postice canaliculate ; elytris nigerrimis, striis punctatis, interstitiis planis 

 punctulatis ; antennis obscuris, articulis 3io et 4to sequalibus. Long. 7 mm. 



One specimen from Cape San Lucas, Lower California, in the collection of 

 Mr. Ulke. The membranous lobe of the third tarsal joint extends slightly 

 beyond the fourth joint. 



MELANOTUS Esch. 



M. gradatus, nigro-piceus, pube brevi subtili vestitus, thorace convexo, 

 latitudine baud breviore, lateribus subparallelis, antice rotundatis, basi dense 

 subtiliter, apice rude punctato, angulis posticis unicarinatis ; elytris striis 

 punctatis, interstitiis planis punctulatis, pedibus piceo-ferrugineis ; antenna- 

 rum articulo 3io sequente paulo breviore. Long. 13*5 mm. 



One specimen from Maryland, in the collection of Mr. Ulke. Very distinct 

 by the punctua,tion of the thorax, which is coarse near the anterior margin, 

 gradually becoming fine and very dense at the base. The head is coarsely 

 punctured, the front somewhat flattened and vaguely impressed ; the thorax 

 is feebly channeled behind the middle. The third joint of the antennse is 

 about twice as long as the second, and but little shorter than the fourth. 



M. opacicollis, fuscus, capite dense punctato, thorace latitudine haud 

 breviore, antice angustato, lateribus late rotundatis, confertissime punctulato, 

 opacp, pube erecta grisea dense vestito, versus apicem punctato, angulis pos- 

 ticis bicarinatis ; elytris nitidis, striis punctatis, interstitiis parce punctulatis, 

 cinereo-pubescentibus ; antennis pedibusque ferrugiueis, illis articulo 3ia 

 prsecedente sesqui longiore. Long. 10 — 11 mm. 



Rock Island, Illinois ; Mr. B. D. Walsh. The disc of the thorax is mode- 

 rately convex, very feebly channeled, covered (except near the apical margin 

 which is moderately punctured) with a very fine punctuation, so dense as to 

 make the surface dull ; the pubescence is short and erect. The front is 

 slightly depressed ; the third joint of the antennse is not dilated, and is one- 

 half longer than the second. This species is very distinct by the sculpture of 

 the thorax. 



The female differs by the thorax being more convex and less narrowed in 

 front. The antennae are alike in both sexes. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 391 



LIMONIUS Esch. . 



L. pectoralis, cylindricns, niger, vel nigro piceus, pube plumbea sub- 

 tili vestitus ; capite punctato i'roiite parura coHvexa, recte trunoata ; thorace 

 latitudine paulo longiore, valde convexo, antice et postice paulo angustato, 

 lateribus late rotundatis, disco subtilius minus dense punctato, ante basin 

 breviter canaliculato, angulis posticis subtiliter carinatia testaceis, margine 

 apicali ssepius testaceo ; elytris lirabo latorutb-piceo, striis profundis puuctati^, 

 interstitiis planis confertim rugose-punttatis ; subtus piceus, punctatus, pro- 

 sterni lobo antico, prothoracis angulis anticis et posticis laete testaceis ; pedi- 

 bu3 obscuris, vel piceo-rufis, antennis piceis, basi dilutioribus, articulo 3io 

 secuudo paulo longiore, 4to vix breviore. Long. 7 ram. 



Fort Simpson, Hudson Bay Territory. This species is quite different from 

 any other in my collection, and seems, by description, to be related to the 

 European L. cylindricus. As in that species, the carina of the hind 

 angles of the thorax is very near the side margin, and the prosternum is 

 feebly channeled between the front coxae. The prosternal sutures are deeply 

 excavated anteriorly, and the yellow color of the under surface of the front 

 angles extends along the prosternal sutures half way to the front coxae. 



L. infernus. Specimens of this species, labelled Elater nimbatns 

 Say, are contained in the collection of Dr. Melsheimer, now belonging to the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, Massachusetts. The descrip- 

 tion of Say does not represent the characters of the species in a recognizable 

 manner, but, as his specimen was obtained from the elder Melsheimer, there 

 can be no doubt of the authenticity of the specimens now in the collection. 



ATHOUS Esch. 



A. 11 m b a t u s, nigro-piceus, subtiliter pubescens, capite fortiter punctato, 

 fronte valde excavata, margine reflexo testac-eo, thorace latitudine longiore, 

 antice convexo postice subcanaliculato, lateribus paulo rotundatis, angulis 

 posticis carinatis limboque laterali angusto testaceis, confertim punctato; 

 elytris striis punctaiis, interstitiis fere planis parce punctatis, basi, limbo 

 externo angusto, epipleurisque h^te^s ; subtus rufo-piceus, pedibus, prosterni 

 vitta, lobo suturisque piceo-ferrugineis ; antennis obscurioribus, articulo 

 2ndo parvo, 3io triangular! elongato. Long. 8*5 mm. 



A specimen fiom Northern California, given me by Mr. Ulke. The third 

 joint of the tarsi is very slightly prolonged beneath, and the fourth joint is 

 small. The carina of the hind angles of the thorax is very near the margin. 



A. m on t anus, niger nitidus, subtiliter cinereo-pubescens, capite fortiter 

 punctato, fronte excavata rubra; thorace latitudine longiore, antice convexo, 

 dense fortiter punctato, punctis umbilicatis, basi margineque nigricante, 

 angulis posticis rectis, carina ad marginem contigua ; elytris striis profundis 

 punctatis, interstitiis convexis parce punctulatis (basi rufis ?) ; antennis rufo- 

 piceis, articulo 2ndo parvo, 3io elongato triangulari. Long. 12 5 mm. 



A badly preserved specimen from Montana Territory is in my collection. It 

 resembles in appearance A. equestris, but is smaller, and the elytra are 

 shining, and finely punctured, while in that species they are opaque, and 

 coarsely scabro-punctate. The base of the elytra is bright rufous, but the 

 marking is irregular, and may therefore be not constant ; the tarsi are want- 

 ing, but from the other specific characters I have no doubt that they are lobed 

 as in A. equestris. 



A. undulatis Kiesenwetter, Ins. Deutschl. iv. 320 ; Candeze, El. iii. 450 ; 

 El. undulatm De Geer ; EL trifasciatus Herbst, &c. 



Mr. Ulke has received, from Hudson Bay, specimens which agree with 

 the description of this species, thus far found only in Northern Europe and 

 Asia. I owe to his kindness the specimen in my collection. 



1866.] 




802 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



CORYMBITES Latr. 



G. teres, cyliiu'liicua, nigro piceus, fusco pubescens, fronte depressa, 

 capite thoraceque dense fortiter puncatis, ])Uiictis uiribilicatis, lioc latitu'line 

 lojigiore, couvexo, lateribus rectis parallelis, aiignlis posticis vix obsolete; cari- 

 nat s, baud divergentibus ; elytris striis snbtiliter punctatis, interstitiis plauis 

 punutulatis ; auteiiuis pedibusque fuscis, illis articulo 3io 4to sequali, tr.anga- 

 lari. Long. V2'b mm. 



One feiuale frou California, given me by Mr. Ulke. Tbis species is allied to 

 C. c y 1 i n d r i f o r m i s, but differs by tbe coarse and dense punctures of the 

 head and thorax ; the latter is not channeled. The antennae scarcely attain the 

 base of the elytra, which are slightly tinged with brassy lustre. 



C. trapezium, niger, nitidus, vix conspicue pubescens, thorace latitu- 

 dine breviore, fortiter marginato, lateribus rectis antice convergentibus, 

 angulis posticis divaricatis, baud caiinatis, disco paulo convexo, confertiiu 

 punctato ; elytris subtilitt r punctatis, punctisque paulo majoribus striaetim 

 pt'Sitis, margine latiuscnlo retlexo ; antcnnis articulis 3--11 comprfssis, 

 sensim paulo angustioribus, 3io 4to sequali. Long. 21-5 mm. 



Texas; sent to me by Mr. A. Salle. This remarkable species does not 

 resemble any other seen by me, but I have found no characters to warrant me 

 in separating it as a distinct genus. The body is elongate, not convex, shining 

 black abovf, and almost glabrous. The head is punctured and the front is 

 broadly concave, or rather excavated ; the antennae are longer than the head 

 and thorax : the second joint small, the third equal to the fourth, triangular 

 compressed, following joints gradually a little narrower, eleventh distinctly 

 divided, terminal portion a little shorter. Thorax trapezoidal, sides straight, 

 strongly margined; hind angles divergent, not carinated ; die only slightly 

 convex, tolerably thickly punctured. Elytra as wide as the thorax at the 

 hind angles, lateral margin strongly reflexed, disc finely punctured, with not 

 very obvious striae composed of somewhat larger punctures. Hind coxae very 

 narrow externally, gradually somewhat widely dilated inwards (about as in 

 C. aethiops). Front tibiae compressed, longitudinally concave on the 

 anterior face; tarsi comf ressed, more densely pubescent beneath than usual, 

 not shorter than the tibiae. Front lobe of prosteruum very short. 



C. op a cuius, niger, subopacus, dense helvo-pubescens, capite punctato, 

 fronte concava, thorace latitudine baud longiore, convexo. obsolete canalicu- 

 lato, dense punctato, lateribus late rotundatis, angulis posticis acutis diver- 

 gentibus, carinatis ; elytris striis profunde punctatis, interstitiis angustis 

 rugose punctatis ; tibiis tarsisque obscure ferrugineis, antennis articulo 2ndo 

 parvo, 3io triangulari sequent.e vi^^ angustiore. Long. 8-5 mm. 



Oregon; in Mr. Ulke's collection. Somewhat allie'l to C. divaricatus 

 Lec.f but the sides of the thorax are rounded. The antennae are broadly ser- 

 rate, and a little longer than the head and thorax in the specimen described. 



C. moerens, elongatus, niger, opacus, subtilissime cinereo-pubescens, 

 capite confertim punctato, fronte convexa, vage triangulariter impressa, tho- 

 race latitudine fere duplo longiore, parum convexo, dense punctato, lateribus 

 late sinuatis, angulis posticis diveigentibns, apice truncatis, baud carinatis ; 

 elytris striis punctulatis, interstitiis fere planis, punctatis; anttnnarum arti- 

 culo 2ndo parvo, 3io triangulari sequente paulo longiore. Long. 11 mm. 



Oregon ; in Mr. Ulke's collection. The antennae in the specimen before me 

 are hs long as the head and thorax ; the third joint is as broad as the fourth, 

 and slightly longer. 



This species is allied to C. lobatus, but is larger, of a more opaque black 

 color, and the thorax is longer and less convex. 



C. mor ulus Lee, new sp. North Am. Coleoptera, p. 85 (March 1SG3). 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Specimens of this species from Montana have been subsequently described 

 hy Mr. Bland, under the name C. hrunnipes (Proc. Ent, Soc. JPhil. iii. 67). 



It occurs at Pembina, and various otlier places in Hudson Bay Territory, 

 and also in Montana and the interior of Oregon and Washington Territory. 



ANAMESUS Lee. (n. g. Elaterid^). 



A. convexicollis, 9 alatus, pioens, pubescens, capite confertim punc- 

 tato, fronte vage triangulariter irapressa, oculis parvis lateralibus ; thorace 

 latitudine baud longiore, lateribus subparallelis, antice subrotundatis, angulis 

 posticis paulo divergentibus, acutis carinatis, disco convexo, subtilius punc- 

 tata ; elytris abdomine duplo brevioribus apice singulatim rotundatis, striis 

 baud punctatis, interstitiis punctuiatis ; antennis subserratis, capite sesqul 

 longioribus, articulo 2ndo sequente paulo breviore. Long. 21-5 mm. 



One specimen from Nevada in Mr. Ulke's collection. The abdomen has 

 seven ventral segments, the five seen ordinarily in Elateridfe being increased 

 by the first, (usually concealed behind the coxae, ) becoming visible, and by the 

 addition of an apical segment as in the 9 of Euthysanius (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sc. Phil. 1859, 74). In the latter, however, the number of visible segments 

 is eight. 



The wings are well developed, and folded under the elytra, which are only 

 one-half the length of the abdomen. 



Corresponding with the female above described is a male in Mr. Ulke's col- 

 lection, from Fort Tejon, California. The sculpture is the same; the eyes are 

 large and prominent ; the antennae are longer than the head and thorax, 

 strongly serrate, with the external angle of the joints 2 — 10 acute ; the third 

 joint is similar to the fourth, though smaller. The elytra are as long as the 

 abdomen, somewhat dehiscent behind, and acute at tip, paler in color than the 

 head and thorax. The abdomen lias six visible ventral segments, the last be- 

 ing provided with lateral pieces, as in the males of the allied genera. Length 

 13-5 mill. 



I regard this as the male of the Nevada species, and, as indicating a new 

 genus, differing from Aplastus by the (usual) 5th ventral segment being 

 truncate at tip in both sexes, fully exposing the sixth segment; the fifth seg- 

 ment in Aplastus is rounded at tip, and the sixth retracted. 



The two specimens of Aplastus optatus in my collection differ greatly in the 

 form of the antennae ; the one from Mr. A. Murray has the joints 4 — 10 more 

 strongly triangular, and more produced at the outer angle, than the specimen 

 found at Bodega (Cal.) by Mr. George Davidson. I was therefore induced to 

 regard the latter as a female, a view that is confirmed by the different struc- 

 ture of the last ventral segment in the two individuals ; the lateral valves, 

 quite conspicuous in the male, are absent in the supposed female. 



The tribe Plastocerini thus exhibits in Western America a very beautiful 

 series of gradations from Aplastus, in whi h the sexual differences are slight, 

 through Anamesus, where the elytra are shortened, and the ventral segments 

 increased in number, to Euthysanius, in whick the ventral segments are still 

 farther increased, the abdomen excessively elongated, the elytra very short, 

 and the wings wanting. The female of Plastocerus is not yet discovered. A 

 correspondence with this regular degradation is seen in the form of antennae, 

 serrate in Aplastus, and Anamesus ; not greatly unequal in the sexes of the 

 former, much shorter in the female of the latter ; pectinate, with long 

 branches in males of Plastocerus and Euthysanius, 11-jointed in the former, 

 12-jointed in the latter. 



PLASTOCERUS Lee. 



P. f rater, piceo-castaneus, elytris dilutioribus, helve pubescens, capite 

 thoraceque pilis longioribus vestitis, illo scabro, hoc latitudine paulo breviore, 

 lateribus antice val e rotundatis, angulis posticis divergentibus, carinatis, 




394 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



dense punctato, aubcanalicnlato ; elytris striis punotatis, interatitiis punctatis 

 et rujjosis. Long. 13*r) mm. 



Mas articulis antennarnm 3 — 10 ramo elongate externo munitis, llmo ramo 

 prwoedt^ntis feqnali ; abdomine segmento ventrali (Jto prominulo. 



Fort Tt'jon, California, Mr. Hike's collection. This species, of which I have 

 seen but a singlo specimen, differs from ]*. 8 c h a u m i i chiefly in the form of 

 the thorax, which is comparatively broader and more rounded on the sides. 



LAMPROHIZA Motsch. 



L. splendid u la Mo'sch. Etudes Ent., iii. 47 ; Da Vol, Glan. Ent. i. 20 ; 



Gen. Col. Eur., iii. 161, pi. 39 ; Kiesenw, Ins. Deutschl., iv. 454. 

 Lampyrns sjdendidnla Linn., &c., &c., (vide Kiesenw. loc. cit.) 



A male of this European species was found by Mr. P. R. Uhler, near Balti- 

 more, Md., and kindly presented to me. It does not yet deserve a place in 

 our fauna. 



PODABRUS Westwood. 



P. Pattoni, niger nitidus pubescons, capite parce punctulato, thorace 

 impuncfato, quadrato, latitudine baud longiore, lateribus paulo undulatis, 

 angulis anticis oblique truncatis, posticis acutis prominulis, Ifete flavo mar- 

 gine antico et postico nigricante, dorso postice bigibboso et medio excavato, 

 margiue laterali angusto reflexo ; elytris baud dense minus subtiliter rugosis ; 

 antennarum articulo 3io praecedente paulo longiore et 4to paulo breviore, un- 

 guiculis appendiculatis. Long. 6*5 mm. 



I found two specimens of this pretty elongate species in Lycoming County, 

 Pa. It gives me much pleasure in dedicating it to the Hon. B. F. Patton, to 

 commemorate his value as a friend, as well as his great interest in the object 

 of the journey during which the specimens were collected. 



It resembles in form P. 1 se v i c o 1 11 s, but may be distinguished from the 

 variety of that species with yellow thorax by the punctures of the head being 

 less fine and less dense, and by the rugosities of the elytra being more 

 obvious ; the thorax is a little broader, the outline of the sides is not concave, 

 but slightly convex, and the lateral margin is very distinctly depressed and 

 slightly reflexed; the antennae and feet are black, the first and second joints 

 of the former are pale beneath ; the palpi are pale, with the tip black. P. 

 simplex Conper, Canadian Nat., 1865, 62, is also related, but the thorax 

 is comparatively smaller and less polished, and the base of antennse, the 

 mouth and the feet are yellow. 



Descriptions of some new CICINDELID^ from the Pacific Coast of the 



United States. 



BY GEO. H. HORN, M. P. 



The insects described in the present paper form part of a collection brought 

 by myself from the west coast, accumulated during a four years' residence in 

 California and the adjoining territories. Believing it important to make known 

 the existence of these species, the descriptions are here given in advance of a 

 more extended memoir on the Coleoptera of the Pacific slope of our country. 



OMUS Esch. 



laevis ater, subopacus, thorace latitudine baud breviore, trapezoides, 

 modice convexo, ad basin modice intricato-rugoso ; elytris sublasvibus punc- 

 tisque obsoletis irregulariter impressis. Long. -75. 



This species differs from all the others of the genus in being almost entirely 

 smooth and subopaque. The elytra are regularly oval, as in californicus, ex- 

 hibiting a few almost obsolete punctures irregularly placed like the foveas in 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 395 



dejeami and the larger punctures of the other two species. The whole surface 

 is very finely granulate, causing the subopaque appearance. For this species 

 I am indebted to C. F, Hoffman, Topographer of the Geological Survey of 

 California, who discovered it while exploring the high Sierras near the head 

 waters of King's and Tule rivers. Two specimens, both males, were found. 

 It is to be hoped that further collections may be made in this region, as all the 

 species collected were either new, or served to illustrate the descent of Arctic 

 species. Omus audouinii has been found in the high ridges of the Coast Moun- 

 tain, near Santa Cruz, and californicus has been sent me from the same region 

 by Dr. J. G. Cooper. Doubtless many interesting discoveries will yet be made 

 in the high mountain regions of California and Oregon. 



CICINDELA Linn. 



senilis, atra, opaca, fronte albo-pilosa, granulato-rugosa, thorace latitu- 

 dine breviore, postice angustato ; elytris pone humeros sensim latioribus, pos- 

 tice hand serrulatis, lunula humerali oblique prolongata, fascia media perpen- 

 diculariter refracta ad marginem vix latiore ; subtus viridi-senea, pleuris albo 

 pilosis ; labro albo, obsolete tridentato. 



Mas palpis labialibus articulo ultimo pallido. Long. -47. 



Related more closely to generosa^ though much smaller than any 

 of the species of that group. The form is rather robust, the sides of 

 the elytra well rounded, with the apex scarcely serrate. The mark- 

 ings are rather broad. The middle fascia enters at a right angle to 

 the margin, bends rectangularly, the longitudinal portion being 

 longer. Color above black, almost entirely devoid of any metallic 

 lustre. 



I obtained this species while in San Francisco, of M. Lorquin, from a large 

 box of insects said to have been collected in California. I have, however, no 

 doubt as to the truth of the locality, as all the other species were undoubtedly 

 Californian ; but as some doubt always obtains when specimens are not actu- 

 ally obtained in their native regions, I have thought it advisable to state the 

 facts, that the locality of the species might hereafter be verified. 

 Two specimens are in my cabinet, both males. 



V i b e x, viridis, fronte pilosa, utrinque subtiliter striata, thorace latitudine 

 breviore, subquadrato, postice vix angustato ; elytris pone humeros obtusos 

 sensim latioribus, postice hand serrulatis, punctato-granulatis, lunula hume- 

 rali oblique prolongata, interrupta, fascia media extus imperfecta obtuse re- 

 fracta, lunula apicali interruptis j subtus cyaneo-senea, pleuris albo-pilosis ; 

 labro albo tridentato. 



Mas palpis maxillaribus nigris, palpis labialibus articulo penultimo pallido. 

 Femina latet. Long. -48. 



Fort Klamath, Oregon. The relationship of this species is evi- 

 dently with oregona and its allies, differing in its more elongate form 

 and the absence of the serrulations usually found in the tips of the 

 elytra in the species of this group. The lunules are both interrupted. 

 The extension of the humeral being oblique. The transverse portion 

 of the middle band is at a right angle to the margin, and the longitu- 

 dinal portion oblique. The labrum is distinctly tridentate, the front 

 covered with rather long erect hairs. The color is bright green. 



For this species I am indebted to Dr. H. M. Cronkhite, Act. Assist. Surg. 

 U. S. A., by whom many valuable species were collected during his residence 

 in Oregon and California. 



In the accompanying wood-cut the engraver accidentally cut away the sub- 

 apical spot. It is very small, however, and situated between the apex of the 

 apical lunule and the end of the middle fascia, being rather nearer the former. 



g a b b i i, modice elongata, subcylindrica, supra olivaceo-aenea subnitida, 



1866.] 




890 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fronto .subtilitcr striata, thorace subcylindrico latitudinc vix longiorc, latcribus 

 rt)t»in(latis ; olytris snbparallclis, vablc piinctatig ad a])icern sui)tilius sornibi- 

 tis, spina sntiirali {)arva hand i)r()niinulii, lunubi hunicrali obtuse Hcxa et ha- 

 mata, fascia niodia iuitice curvata delude subito et acute refracta, ad suturam 

 oblique producta ad nuirginaui cuui lunuhx humcrali et apicali conjuncta, 

 lunula apicali autrorsuui valde {)roducta; subtus viridi-aenea valde albo-pilosa, 

 labro brevi, medio prominulo unidentato. 



Palpis maxillaribus utrius sexus fusco-iieneis, labialibus articulo pcnultirno 

 albido. 



Femiiia elytris sutura valde ad apicem retracta. Long. -40 — 46. 



This is one of the prettiest and the most singular of any of the 

 species yet reported from California. With evident relations with 

 group xii. (Lee. Revis. Cicind. of U. S.), it possesses charactC'rs 

 rendering it advisable to form a separate group for its reception, 

 the position of which is in immediate succession to that contain- 

 ing salt marsh and fluviatile species. The following characters 

 will serve to define it. 

 Thorax subcylindrical, sides rounded, posterior angles not produced in 

 either sex. The form is slightly depressed. The elytra of the female are 

 broader than in the male, with the tips narrowing obliquely. The markings 

 are narrow, united along the margin. There is no basal spot. The apical 

 lunule is prolonged anteriorly. The middle band curves toward the base, and 

 is suddenly bent at an acute angle, and obliquely prolonged toward the suture 

 and to near the apical lunule. The body beneath (except pectus and middle 

 of abdomen) densely clothed with white hair. Lab rum is unidentate. Palpi 

 pale, with dark tips. Legs long, slender, trochanters and tip of abdomen 

 reddish. 



This species is not uncommon on the salt marsh near Wilmington (San 

 Pedro), California. They fly rather poorly, and hide when pursued in the 

 short grass. They occurred during August. It is to be hoped that further 

 collections of this speci^^s may be made, as the . greater number collected by 

 myself were destroyed by an accident to which all bottles are liable. 



I dedicate it with pleasure to my friend Mr. Wrri. M. Gabb, of the Geological 

 Survey of California, in recognition of his many very valuable services as a 

 collector in regions inaccessible to myself. 



Notes on the habits of species previously described. 



C. vulturina Lee. A beautiful green variety of this species has been 

 sent me from northern Arizona. Similar specimens are in the cabinets of Dr. 

 Le Conte and Mr. Ulke, from Fort Whipple, Arizona, where my specimen was 

 probably collected. 



C. vulgaris Say, is found all over Oregon and California, whence collec- 

 tions have been sent me. In the Sierras on Kern river a beautiful sericeous 

 green variety existed rather abundantly. 



C. oregona Lee. Six specimens of this species from Oregon form a 

 beautiful series, from the fully marked to that without any evidence of either 

 bands or lunules. They are all of a dull green color. For these I am indebted 

 to Dr. Cronkhite, U. S. A., who was stationed for some time at Fort Klamath, 

 whence many interesting species have been sent me. Specimens of this spe- 

 cies have been sent me from the southern Sierras. To this species must be 

 referred the fragments partially described, but not named, by Dr. J. L. Le 

 Conte ; see Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., V, 16, and Revis. Cicind., Trans. Am. Phil. 

 Soc, vol. xi. p. 41, spec. 22. 



C. hirticollis Say, is in every collection made near the sea or along 

 large rivers. 



[Dec. 




NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



C. du odecim - g uttata occurs everywhere in the Pacific regions, ex- 

 tending into the valleys east of the Sierra Nevada. 



C. hyperborea Lee. has been sent me by Mr. Wm. M. Gabb, 

 from the coast range near Santa Cruz. The markings of this spe- 

 cies vary in their width. The two specimens in my cabinet have 

 the markings distinct, while two in the cabinet of Dr. Le Conte 

 have the humeral lunule and the middle fascia so expanded as to 

 become confluent. I give a figure of the two varieties, with a view 

 of completing the series of illustrations of our species. 



C. p u s i 1 1 a Say was abundant in Owens Valley, in the beds of streams. 



C. hemorrhagica Lee. occurred with the last. It is remarkable that 

 a species hitherto found only on the sea coast at San Diego, should occur so 

 far inland. 



C. imperfecta Lee. has been sent me from Fort Vancouver, Oregon. 



C. g u tt i f e r a Lee. occurred in tolerable abundance at Fort Grant, on the 

 San Pedro river, Arizona. 



Tetracha Carolina Hope occurred rather abundantly at Fort Yuma, 

 under chips, etc., on the borders of the. Colorado. , This insect has now been 

 found at almost every point from the central Atlantic coast of the United 

 States to Cape St, Lucas, at the southern extremity of Lower Califorfiia. It is 

 probably found along the greater extent of western Mexico. For this and 

 many other species from this interesting region, 1 am indebted to Capt. John 

 E. Hill, of California. 



Descriptions of some new genera and species of Central American COLEOP- 



TERA. 



BY GEO, H. HORN, M. D. 

 MACKOPNUS. 



Gen. Ch. — ^lentum quadrate, sides moderately rounded, slightly emarginate 

 anteriorly. Labial palpi small, last joint ovoid, acuminate. Maxillae armed 

 internally with six sharp teeth in two rows, palpi moderate, last joint larger, 

 ovoid, slightly curved, and grooved above. Mandibles tridentate at the ex- 

 tremity, with a somewhat "flattened, .vertical, slightly recurved tooth on the 

 upper surface. Epistome parabolic, slightly margined, broader than the front, 

 from which it is separated by a slightly sinuate suture. Thorax convex, sides 

 strongly rounded, base moderately lobed, angles distinct, the anterior more 

 [»rominent. Scutellum moderate, twice broader than long. Mesosternum 

 produced, plane. Elytra very convex, suboval. Legs robust, antepor tibia? 

 tridentate. Tarsi shorter than the tibiae, last joint with an angular process 

 beneath. Claws unequal, the outer more robust and forked. Pygidium large, 

 convex, vertical. 



Males. — Posterior coxae very large and very prominent internally. Trochan- 

 ter prolonged into a spine, curved inwardly. Femora broad, oval, bidentate on 

 their lower edges, flat internally, convex externally. Posterior tibiae stout, 

 arcuate, densely pubescent internally, obliquely rugose and deeply punctured 

 externally, obliquely truncate, inner angle much produced. 



crassipes, yellow, shining, head finely but sparsely punctured. Thorax 

 densely and finely punctured, with larger punctures at irregular intervals. 

 Elytra finely and densely punctured, obsoletely striate punctate, towards apex 

 more coarsely punctured. Beneath brown, scarcely shining, moderately 

 punctured and sparsely flavo-pilose. Length 1-07 inch. 



1866.] 




398 PROOEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Honduras, Dr. J. L. Le Contc. This beautiful insect lias been for some years 

 in the Academy's cabinet. I have till the present deferred its dcscrii)tion, with 

 the hope that in some of the many memoirs on the insects of Mexico and the 

 adjacent regions, its description might be found. The characters above given 

 render it inadmissible in any of the groups of the true Rutelides, combining the 

 characters of two groups in a manner rendering it inadmissible in either. The 

 horizontal labrum and posterior margin to the thorax define it as a true Rute- 

 lide. 



Two groups form this tribe, Pelidnotfe and Areodae, characterized mainly 

 by the absence of the frontal suture. The present genus can enter neither 

 group, as the presence of the frontal suture excludes it from the former, while 

 the forked tarsal claws exclude it from the latter, while the form of the mandi- 

 bles serves to distinguish it from either. By a modification of the characters 

 of groups of Areodae of Lacordaire, it might enter here to form the analogue of 

 Macropoides, of the Pelidnotse. I prefer, however, separating it entirely, to 

 form an intermediate group. With this view the Rutelidae verae may be thus 

 tabulated : 



Epistome not distinct from front Peli dnottR. 



Epistome separate from front. 



Mandibles tridentate ; outer tarsal claws forked Macropni, 



" simple; " '' simple....*. Areodae. 



In addition to the above characters, it might be mentioned that the front is 

 twice as broad as long, the eyes large and convex, the epistome much broader 

 than the front, forming the canthi of irtie eyes by the posterior angle. The 

 head is short, being a third broader than long, and is deeply set in the thorax, 

 causing the eyes to be partially hidden by its anterior angles. The mesosternal 

 spine is moderate, flattened, and slightly grooved beneath. The large posterior 

 coxae depress the plane of the metasternum below that of the abdomen. Me- 

 tasternum truncate posteriorly and vertical. Posterior coxae separate. The 

 abdomen forms an abrupt convexity beneath, thus causing the pygidium to 

 assume a rather more acute form than usual. The pygidium is very convex 

 from above downwards, and finely granulate, presenting a more rugose appear- 

 ance than any other portion of the insect. The species resembles our Cotalpa 

 lanigera in form, being, however, slightly more elongated, though less 

 elongated than either of the Areodae. 



A single specimen, a male, from which the above description has been taken, 

 exists in the cabinet of the Academy. 



BRANCHUS Lee. 



obscurus, oval, slightly convex, black and opaque, sparsely covered with 

 short black erect hair, head very densely and coarsely punctured, front trans- 

 versely and longitudinally impressed ; thorax one-third broader than long, 

 densely and coarsely punctured, narrowed anteriorly, and emarginate ; sides 

 broadly rounded, slightly emarginate in front of posterior angles, which are 

 but slightly produced and rounded ; base rounded at the middle, emarginate 

 on each side. Thorax above with a median slightly elevated line, and two 

 foveae ; on each side of the median line are four slightly oblique elevated ridges, 

 arranged in anterior and posterior pairs. Elytra subcostate, with densely 

 placed elevated granulations towards apex indistinctly foveate. Beneath smooth 

 shining, scarcely punctured. 



Long. -55, lat. -30. Nicaragua. 



Differs from the other species by its less convex form ; the sides of thorax arc 

 also slightly emarginate before the angles. The elytra have a distinct ridge 

 continuous with the thoracic margin and extending very nearly to the apex. 

 The species of this genus may be divided into two groups ; Jioridanus Lee. has 

 the thorax very convex, while in woodii Lee. and obscurus Horn the thorax and 

 elytra are rather depressed. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



ANECTUS n. g. 



Generic characters as in Branch us Lee, with the following exceptions: 

 Antennae more slender and elongate, the ninth joint rather suddenly dilated, 

 Mentum trapezoidal sides less rounded and less emarginate anteriorly. Gular 

 peduncle smaller, with the median notch hardly evident. Anterior tibia? 

 slightly emarginate at apex, outer angle not prolonged externally. Intercoxal 

 process of abdomen rectangularly truncate. 



This genus, indicated but not named by Le Conte (Class. Col. N. Am.), may 

 be readily distinguished by the preceding characters from Branchus. 



V e s t i tu s, oval, very convex, black and opaque, densely clothed with short 

 ochraceous pubescense. Head very densely and coarsely punctured, front tri- 

 angularly impressed, epistome ferruginous ; thorax at base one-half broader 

 than long, densely and coarsely punctured, much narrower anteriorly and 

 broadly emarginate ; sides broadly rounded, at base broadly lobed ; posterior 

 angles slightly produced ; above with a slight transverse impression termina- 

 ting in two fovae, and four oblique slightly elevated lines arranged in anterior 

 and posterior pairs. PJlytra very convex, obscurely costate and foveolate ; 

 marginal ridge not reaching the apex. Beneath finely and sparsely punctured. 



Long. -63, lat. -35. Honduras. Cabinet of Dr. Le Conte. 



This species is much more convex and more regularly oval than any of the 

 other Branchini. The legs are also more slender, and the insect has the appear- 

 ance of being able to move with considerable rapidity. 



The tribe Branchini presents some difficulties regarding its proper classifica- 

 tion. The prominent ligula points to some affinity with the Praocini, but as 

 this organ is undoubtedly retractile, and capable of being protruded, its value 

 as a means of classifying the tribes of the Asididae seems hardly apparent. The 

 removal of certain tribes and parts of tribes (Scaurini pars, Blaptini, Pimeliini, 

 Molurini pars, Pedinini, Opatrini and Trachyscelini,) this great subfamily 

 becomes more homogenous and capable of classification. The tribes above 

 mentioned have the posterior margins of the third and fourth ventral segments 

 coriaceous, — a character of great value in the subdivision of the family Tene- 

 brionidae. 



The Branchini seem to have closer affinities with the Asidini and Nycteliini. 

 The prominent emarginate labrum, the contour of the front, and the slightly 

 channeled tarsi seem to point toward the Asidini, while the broad emarginate 

 and fissured gular peduncle and the form of the maxillary palpi indicate their 

 affinity with the Nycteliini. The form of the antennas serves to distinguish it 

 from both tribes, the eleventh joint being as large as the preceding, depressed, 

 and rounded at the extremity. 



The following table will serve to distinguish the tribes of the subfamily 

 Asididae, characterized by the presence of a trochantin to the middle coxie, and 

 the hind margins of the ventral segments entirely corneous : 



Head rhomboidal, narrowed behind. 1. 



" short, not narrowed. 2. 



1. Labrum prominent. Thorax emarginate Akisini. 



Labrum partially concealed. Thorax scarcely 



emarginate Cryp togl ossin i. 



2. Last joint of maxillary palpi securiform Asidini. 



'' " " " not securiform 



Gula sulcate. 3. 



" not sulcate. 4. 



3. Antennae slender, last three joints broader Branchini. 



Antennae robust, last joint generally smaller Nycteliini. 



4. Maxills© unarmed P hysogas teri n i. 



Maxillae with a corneous hook. 



Scutellum large, covering in great part the meso- 



thoracic peduncle Molurini. 



1866.] 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Scutcllum small or absent, situated between the 

 elytra. 



Mesosterniim and intercoxal process of abdo- 

 men broad .. P r a o c i n i. 



Mcsosternum and intercoxal process of abdo- 

 men narrow triangular Coniontini. 



Certain tribes admitted into this subfamily by Lacordairc have been sepa- 

 rated entirely. The Scaurini and Scotobiini have been separated from Crypto- 

 j^lossini, and the genera allied to Eulabis removed from association with Nycto- 

 poris, and Ccrenopus from Cryptoglossa. The Sepidiini have been removed 

 from the Molurini. The genus Ogcoosoma must probably also be removed 

 from association with Moluris and Psammodes. The validity of the removal 

 of certain tribes and groups from the Asidid.ie as received by Lacordaire, appears 

 to be still further substantiated by an examination of the manner in which 

 the pores of special sensibility are distributed on the ter^ninal joints of the 

 antenna?."'^' 



While exaraing the Nycteliini in the collection of the Academy, I found under 

 (ryriosomus a species named " multilineatus Melly," M'hich does not belong even 

 to the subfamily. I can find no reference to such a species, and no genus into 

 which it may properly be received. The hind margins of the third and fourth 

 ventral segments are coriaceous. This insect should undoubtedly form a 

 new genus near Gonopus and Anomalipus, with which it has many points of 

 resemblance. The following table of the three genera exhibits their relations : 



Epistoma trapezoidal, broadly emarginate Gonopus. 



" rounded, triangularly " 

 Epipleurse indistinct, body very convex Ectatocnemis. 



" broad, body flattened above and margined Anomalipus. 



In the genus above indicated the last joint of the antenna? is very small, the 

 anterior tibitc much more flattened than in Anomalipus^ and have the external 

 apical angle prolonged into a tooth, and a median tooth to both anterior and 

 middle tibiae. The tooth existing on the posterior edge of the apex of the an- 

 terior tibiae in Anomalipus is not present in this genus. The prosternum be- 

 tween the coxae is bisulcate, as in the other genera, and declivous in front and 

 not lobed as in Gonopus. 



The species, for which I retain the name above given, is very robust. Head 

 broad, moderately coarsely punctured, with a vague impression each side of the 

 cmargination. Thorax one-half broader than long, very convex, densely and 

 coarsely punctured, narrower in front, broadly emarginate ; sides strongly 

 rounded, narrowing posteriorly, angles acute, slightly prolonged, base emargi- 

 nate. Elytra broadly oval, very convex, humeri obtuse, partially covered by 

 the posterior angles of the thorax, costate, intervals with a less distinct elevated 

 line, on each side of which is a row of elevated points. 



The female is larger and more robust than the male, and the apical tooth of 

 the tibia broader and more obtuse. 



Length -9 inch. " Coquimbo." 



RHINANDRUS Lee. 



elongatus, elongate, black, subopaque, head long, very finely and 

 sparsely punctulate, thorax opaque, not punctured, scarcely longer than broad, 



* This character, in its application to this family, was first pointed out by Schioedte (Annals 

 ani Magazine of Nat. Hist. Mch., 1865, p. 192, note). Its true value is not yet fully determined, 

 l)iit from the few observations made by myself it promises to be, at least, a very useful character 

 in fi-ting the relationships of genera, the positions of which are still in son)e doubt. 1 have but 

 casually mentioned this character, hopinjr to have leisure to develop it in its application to our 

 North American genera at some future aay. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 401 



truncate anteriorly ; sides rounded, slightly margined, base truncate, angles of 

 thorax not prominent, the posterior rectangular. Elytra elongated oval, con- 

 vex, one-half broader at middle than the thorax, base scarcely emarginate, not 

 broader than the base of thorax, humeri prominent, deeply light striate, and, 

 with the marginal, deeply punctured ; interstices elevated, scutellar stria short, 

 distinct and punctured. Beneath smooth, very finely punctured. 



Long. -78 ,^, "90 9' Yucatan and Nicaragua. 



Very distinct from the species described from Cape St. Lucas by the charac- 

 ters above given. The thorax is evenly rounded, the posterior angles rectan- 

 gular, without being prominent as in gracilis Lee. The base is finely margined 

 by a line not reaching the angles ; in front of this a slight transverse elevation, 

 in front of which is an indistinct transverse impression. In the female these 

 characters are better marked than in the male. The antennae are shorter and 

 much more robust ; in the male they equal in length the head and thorax. The 

 front is deeply notched both in male and female, exposing the connecting 

 membrane between the epistome and labrum, exhibiting sexual characters 

 similar to Zophobas. The anterior tibiae of the male are clothed internally 

 near the tips with a dense, short pubescence. In this species the prosternum 

 is slightly produced behind the coxse, acute. Mesosternum declivous and 

 broadly channeled. 



Between this genus and Zophobas there appear to exist close affinities. 



On the Consumption of Force by Plants in overcoming Gravitation, 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Every one interested in Horticulture knows how uncertain is the successful 

 cultivation of the grape in the United States. The vines usually flourish well 

 for a few years, but in most instances become the prey of numerous diseases 

 before they attain any very great age. 



In remarkable contrast with this general failure is the fact that grape vines 

 growing over trees are generally healthy and fruitful to a remarkable extent. 

 Branches from unhealthy vines on trellises, when they can get to ramble over 

 the twiggy branches of a neighboring tree, resume the health and vigor lost by 

 the parent or main vine. 



These facts have had numerous observers, and are generally admitted. They 

 have been frequently discussed in Horticultural journals ; but every theory 

 hitherto brought forward has been refuted. For instance, it has been sug- 

 gested that the partial shade afforded by the tree benefitted the grape vine ] but 

 it is as perfect when growing over low bushes, on hot banks, exposed to high 

 and dry temperatures, as when luxuriating among the shady branches of the 

 tallest trees. Again, it has been suggested that as the vine is supposed to like 

 a dry soil the roots of the tree tended to absorb superfluous moisture, and thus 

 furnished the best conditions for the vine roots ; but healthy vines are found on 

 trees in impassable swamps : besides, the cases of branches from trellises be- 

 fore alluded to answer this supposition. Some have thought that as the for- 

 eign vine, growing under glass, thrives there so well principally on account of 

 the humid atmosphere, the evaporation from the trees' foliage might benefit the 

 vine growing over it ; but it has been further observed that they grow as well 

 over dead trees as over living ones : and so on, in like manner, every theory 

 has been refuted, and the true reason unexplained. 



I think Mr. Darwin's discovery of tendril motion will afford the key to this 

 phenomenon, and enable us to form a new theory as to the origin and employ- 

 ment of force in vegetable growth, 



Mr. Darwin has shown that the tendrils of plants are in continuous motion 

 for a long time until they find something to cling to, when motion at once 



1866,] 26 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ceases. Motion is nn attribute of vital force ; and vital force, whatever be its 

 origin, must be sustained by nutrition. 



Tiicre are two forms of motion. The one we call growth, which is the mo- 

 tion of the cells individually ; the other, in animals, we call muscular motion, 

 is the movement of the cells collectively. This tendril motion, unnamed be- 

 cause until lately unknown, is analogous to animal muscular motion, in its 

 being a collective movement of the i)arts. 



In animals we know that nutrition will only supply a given amount of force, 

 and that if muscular motion receives an undue proportion of this force, growth 

 (cell motion) suffers. In common language, the over-run horse gains no flesh- 

 On the other hand, the disuse of muscular power fattens the animal. If the 

 same division of motion exists in plants, and Mr. Darwin's paper shows it does, 

 it necessarily follows that if one form gets more than its due share, the health- 

 ful balance is destroyed — in other words, the force necessary for excessive ten- 

 dril motion in the grape vine exhausts the nutritive powers of the plant to sup- 

 ply ; growth suffers, and disease ensues. 



To apply this principle to the case of unsuccessful grape culture, we find in 

 no system of grape management is any provision made for arresting tendril 

 motion, — but on the tree thousands of little twigs invite the tendrils at every 

 turn. No motion is expended except for what we might almost term healthful 

 exercise, — the balance is used in growth. 



Observation on many species of climbing vines under similar circumstances 

 confirms these views. The growth and general healthfulness of every kind of 

 vine, is in exact proportion to the climbing facilities afforded it. The garden 

 pea will furnish a ready means of testing this proposition. It will be found 

 that difference in vigor, general healthfulness, and longevity, is strikingly in 

 favor of those grown on twiggy branches. Peas unstaked grow weakly, bear 

 early and sparingly, and die young. Honeysuckles ramble to great heights and 

 have large luxuriant foliage on fine wire trellises, but when dangling to one 

 straight stick they grow very little indeed. The most striking instance that 

 came under my observation was in some Wistaria sinensis whicli, had been 

 trained to form self-supporting dw^arf trees. The branches would only grow 

 two or three feet in a season, but a few of the shoots in time bending over and 

 reaching the ground, where they found a natural support, would grow 

 thirty feet during a single season. The observations in this way were so uni- 

 form, and the materials being everywhere, any one can verify this without it 

 being necessary for me to particularize further instances. 



Every effort of nature is but an endeavor to accomplish an object. The his- 

 tory of a plant's life is a struggle with gravitation, "rhe purpose of that strug- 

 gle is with the Author of its existence, but its immediate object is to elevate 

 itself from the earth. The force required for this is very great. In its young 

 days, however, it goes on with vigor, — taking no thought, as it were, of to-mor- 

 row, — but, as it grows older, it becomes bowed down by the weight of its ow^n 

 accumulations ; gravity tells on its wide-spreading branches, reminding it of 

 its growing weakness. It then prepares itself for its final dissolution by pro- 

 ducing fruit, which, fully accomplished, the struggle with gravitation ceases, 

 and dust to dust returns. 



The whole of this enormous motive force must, as we have seen, be derived 

 from nutrition, — and the proper proportion due to each form of motion must 

 be provided and paid to it, or deranged action be the inevitable consequence, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEJiPHIA. 403 



A second study of the ICTERIDJB. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



2. Sub-family Quiscalin/e. 



I. Genus QUISCALUS, Vieillot. 



(Genus Quiscalus, Vieill., Analyse, p. 36.) 



1. Quiscalus. 



1. Quiscalus purpureus, (Bartram). 



" Gracula purpurea, Bartram," Wilson Am. Orn. iii. p. 44. 



Gracula purpurea, Bartram, Trav. Florida, p. 289 (1791). 



Monedula purpurea, Catesby, Carolina, i. p. 12, pi. 12. 



Gracula quiscula, Linn. Syst. Nat., i. p. 109 (1758). 



Oriolus ludovicianus, Gm. Syst. Nat., i. p. 387 (1788) ? 



Quiscalus versicolor, Vieill. Nouv. Diet., xxviii. p. 488 (1819). 



Quiscala nitens, Licht. Verz., p. 18 (1823). 



Quiscalus purpuratus, Sw. Cab. Cy., p. 298 (1838). 

 Catesby Carolina, i. pi. 12. Vieill. Gal. i. pi. 108. Wils. Am. Orn. iii. pi,. 

 21. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 7 ; oct. ed. iv. pi. 221. Bonap. Am. Orn. i. pi. 5. 



One of the most abundant of the larger insessorial birds of Eastern North 

 America, retaining its place in the most highly cultivated districts, associated 

 in societies at all seasons, and in the migrating periods, especially in autumn, 

 appearing in immense flocks in the Middle and Southern States. Numerous 

 colonies remain during the summer, and rear their young within the corporate 

 limits of Philadelphia, and resort constantly to the public squares (or parks) in 

 the most densely populated parts of the city, for the purpose of feeding on the 

 larvae of insects, especially of species of Lepidoptera, which infest the trees. In 

 some instances small parties have built nests and reared young in the public 

 squares of fliis city, but this bird evidently prefers the suburbs and open 

 country. 



Bill about the length of the head, thick at base, curved at the end, edge of 

 upper mandible generally sinuated, commissure nearly straight, but curved 

 downwards distinctly at the point ; wing moderate, with the third quill usually 

 slightly longest, but frequently about equal to the second and fourth ; tail 

 rather long, graduated ; legs and feet rather strong ; claws strong and sharp. 

 Total length 11 J to 13 inches; wing 5 to 5^ ; tail 5^ to 6 inches. 



Adult male. Entirely black, head, neck and breast with >a fine steel-blue,, 

 greenish-blue or violet-blue lustre, abruptly terminated on the neck behind, 

 extending on the breast in front, but abruptly terminated and giving place to 

 the fine golden and bronzed violet-blue, purple and green of the abdomen, . 

 which are very nearly the same on the back and other upper parts of the body. 

 Coverts of the wing and shorter quills with fine bronze and bluish-purple lus- 

 tre, primaries narrowly edged with purple or bluish. Tail usually with a fine 

 blue lustre, but frequently changing to green ; bill and feet black. 



The lustres of the plumage in this species (and in the next succeeding) 

 change in a considerable degree in different lights, and have an almost un- 

 limited variation in different ages and seasons, and even in individual speci- 

 mens of the same age apparently, and are difficult to describe. Frequently the 

 blue of the head and throat presents a green mixture or dominant lustre of that 

 color ; there is occasionally a well defined band on the back of the neck of a 

 fine golden and green lustre, and also frequently a large mixture of blue in the 

 lustres of the abdomen ; and lastly, the plumage of the back and abdomen > 

 presents all these lustres with the feathers edged or tipped with fine golden, 

 green or violet, forming a singular iridescent character. 



Adult female. Smaller than the male, with the lustres of the plumage 



1866.] 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



gcnerftlly similar, but Avith gcMicrally a greater prevalence of green, and a 

 paler violet lustre than in the male. Total length about 10| to 11^ inclies. 



Young. Entirely dull brownish-black, with usually a green lustre beginning 

 to appear on the head and breast, wings and tail. 



Ilab. — North America, east of the Rocky Mountains. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



Numerous specimens from various and widely distant localities in North 

 America, in the Academy Museum and in the Smithsonian Museum. Kansas 

 (Dr. W. A. Hammond), Hudson's Bay (Smithsonian), resident in Louisiana 

 (Mr. Audubon). The figures of Wilson of the male, and of Bonaparte of the 

 lemale, above cited, are very good representations of this species ; those of 

 Audubon are not, but seem to be of young or imperfect plumage. 



.2. QuiscALUS AGLiBDS, Baird. 



Quiscalus aglaeus, Baird, Silliman's Jour. 1866, p. 84. 

 Quiscalus baritus, Baird, B. of N. A. p. 556. 



Baird, B. of N. A. pi. 32. 



Specimens from Florida in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, 

 This species is allied to but distinguishable from the preceding without 

 difficulty. 



Smaller than the preceding species, with the bill comparatively longer and 

 more slender, more gradually pointed, with the upper mandible distinctly 

 curved downwards at the tip. Wing moderate, with the second, third and 

 fourth quills very nearly equal ; tail rather long, graduated ; legs and feet 

 strong, claws strong and sharp. Total length about 10^ to 12 inches ; wing 4f 

 to 5^ ; tail about 5 inches. 



Adult male. Entirely black, head, neck and breast with a fine blue lustre, 

 changing to a fine golden purple or violet, abruptly terminated on the neck 

 behind, extending lower on the breast, and abruptly giving place to a silky 

 green lustre on the abdomen, somewhat mixed or variegated with purple and 

 violet. Back with nearly the same lustre as the abdomen ; rump and upper 

 tail coverts more variegated with golden green, violet and blue. External wing 

 coverts with fine blue lustre, changing to green, and frequently tipped and 

 edged with golden-green and violet. Shorter quills with fine blue lustre 

 changing to green. Primaries narrowly edged with bluish or green. Tail with 

 a fine green lustre ; bill and feet black, 



Hab. — Florida ; Bahama Islands ? Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst. 



In this species the lustres of the plumage seem to be more uniform, or much 

 less changeable or broken than in the preceding ; and in all the specimens now 

 under examination the shorter quills have a nearly uniform fine blue lustre, 

 changing to green, and more uniform than in the preceding, and the tail has a 

 green instead of blue lustre. These characters of the plumage, and the smaller 

 size and longer bill, furnish characters at once available for the easy recogni- 

 tion of this species. It is strictly of the same subgeneric group as the prece- 

 ding, and the two are the only species known to me which present variegated 

 and iridescent lustres of plumage. The two species form a subgroup which I 

 regard as typical Quiscalus. 



2. Holoquiscalus. 



All the species of this subgroup, known to me, are black, with purple or 

 violet lustre of various shades in different species, wings and tail uniformly 

 with greenish lustre. In any one species the lustre is nearly uniform on all 

 parts of the head and body. These species inhabit the West Indies and the 

 continent of America as far north as Mexico. 



In the large collection of Quiscalinse in the Museum of the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution, from the West Indies, in which the localities are most carefully and 

 .accurately stated in the labels by Professor Baird, I have not succeeded in 

 ; finding any one species from more than one of the larger Islands. In other 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



words, it is ray conclusion that at least the larger Islands, — Cuba, Jamaica, St. 

 Domingo and Porto Rico, — are each inhabited by a distinct species. That of 

 Trinidad seems to be the same species inhabiting South America. 



3. QuiscALUS BARiTUS, (Linnajus). 



Gracula barita, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 165 (iTee). 



Monedula tota nigra, Sloane Nat. Hist. Jamaica, ii. p. 299. 



Icterus niger, Briss. Orn. ii. p. 103. 



Sturnus jamaicensis, Daud. Tr. d'Orn. ii. p. 317 (1800). 



Merops niger, iride subargentea. Brown Nat. Hist. Jamaica, p. 476. 



Quiscalus crassirostris. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 365 (1838). 



Quiscala vulgaris, Temm. PI. Col. Tab. Meth. p. 10 (1838) ? 

 Sloane's Jamaica, pi. 257, fig. 2. Brisson Orn. ii. pi. 10, fig. 1. Gosse B. of 

 Jamaica, pi. 53. 



1. Gracula barita is a name given by Linnaeus in the 10th edition of Syst. Nat. 

 i. p. 109 (1758), and he probably describes from a specimen collected by Dr. 

 Rolander, whose name he mentions, without citing any work or manuscript 

 and without giving locality, other than " Habitat in Americx Musis, cuius fructus 

 deuastat. Rolander," which, being interpreted, means that the locality is in 

 those parts of America where plants of the genus Musa (the plantain and 

 banana) flourish. The description, very probably, is that of a bird in plumage 

 not mature, but of this group, and is applicable with about equal propriety to 

 the young of any species of the subgroup here indicated as Holoquiscalus. Dr. 

 Rolander visited Guiana and the Island of St. Eustatius, but published nothing 

 relating to his ornithological collections', to my knowledge It is impossible to 

 determine the species or the locality from Syst. Nat. 10th edition, or in any 

 other manner in especial relation to that edition, of which the present writer 

 is cognizant. 



2. But in the 12th edition Syst. Nat. the case assumes much greater facility. 

 In this edition, i. p. 165 (1766), Linnaeus cites as synonymes "Icterus niger; 

 Briss. Av. "2, p. 103, t. 10 f. i." and " Monedula tota nigra, Sloane Jam. 2, p. 

 299, t. 257, f. 2. Raj. av. 185, n. 28." 



3. Brisson, in Orn. ii. p. 103, under the name Icterus niger, describes speci- 

 mens in the collection of M. de Reauraer, from Jamaica and St. Domingo : "On 

 le trove a la Jamaique et a St. Doraingue d'ou il ete envoye a M. de Reaumer 

 par M. Chervain." He gives as a synonym " Monedula tota nigra," Sloane, as 

 above cited, who described, of course, from specimens obtained in " the hot and 

 distant Island of Jamaica," and, whatever the St. Domingo bird may be, Bris- 

 son also describes and figures that of Jamaica, now well known, and usually 

 called Q. crassirostris. 



Sturnus jamaicensis is a name given by Daudin to the bird described under 

 the n-ame '■^ 3lerops niger, iride sub-argentea," by Dr. Patrick Brown, in Nat, Hist. 

 Jamaica, p. 476, which is undoubtedly this bird. Daudin is in error, however, 

 when he gives " Monedula tota nigra," Sloane, as a different bird, though he is 

 quite correct in applying to it the name Gracula barita, Linn, (Daud. Tr. 

 d'Orn. ii. p. 320 ) 



There is, in my opinion, sufficient evidence that this species of Jamaica is 

 properly to be regarded as entitled to the name Quiscafus bari'us, (Linn.) Iij 

 late authors this name has usually been applied to the species from Cuba, 

 which has no claim whatever. The present bird is stated to inhabit also St, 

 Domingo by Mr. Gosse, in Birds of Jamaica, p. 220, but I have seen no speci-. 

 mens of it from that Island, nor from elsewhere than Jamaica, 



Numerous specimens of this species are in the collection of the Smithsonian 

 Institution and in the Academy Museum, and are exclusively from Jamaica. It 

 is rather the largest of the group inhabiting the West Indies and has the bill 

 thick in both mandibles, curved in its terminal half, commissure inflexed and 

 curved at the end of the bill } wing long, third and fourth quills longest and 

 nearly equal ; tail long, graduated ; legs and feet strong, Mai? larger than 

 the female, 



1866.] 




406 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Adult male. I?Iack, head and body with dark purple lustre, uniform above 

 and below, and frequently ehanginj,' to greenish on the rump, upper tail coverts 

 and abdomen. Wings and tail above with green lustre ; bill and feet black 

 (with a brownish tinge in dried specimens). Total length about 12 to 12 J 

 inciies, wings 0, tail 5^ inches. 



Adult female. Similar to the male in color and general lustres of plumage 

 but usually with the latter more tinged with green. Much smaller than the 

 male, total length about 10 inches, wing 5, tail 4| inches. 



Habitat. — Jamaica. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smith. Inst., 

 "Washington. 



'4. QuiscALUS GuNDLACHii, nobis. 



"Qniscalus barytus, Vieill," D'Orbigny, De Sagras Cuba, Ois. p. 120. 

 " Chalcophanes Baritns, Wagl." Gundlach, Cab. Jour. 185G, p. 15. 



De Sagra's Cuba, Aves, pi. 18. 



Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus. and in the Acad. Mus., exclusively 

 from Cuba. This species is but little smaller than the preceding, the bill is 

 more slender and more gradually pointed and the tail seems to be compara- 

 tively longer. The color of the head and body in the Cuba bird presents a 

 more decided purple or violet lustre than in that of Jamaica, and the under 

 parts have a fine golden purple lustre quite wanting in the species of that 

 Island. 



Similar in form and general lustres of plumage to the immediately preced- 

 ing, but rather smaller; bill more pointed and more gradually tapering; tail 

 comparatively longer. Bill longer than the head, gradually curved and pointed ; 

 wing moderate with the third and fourth quills usually longest, but frequently 

 about the same length as the second ; tail rather long, graduated, the feathers 

 Avide ; legs and feet strong ; claws curved, sharp. Totai length about 11^ to 12 

 inches, wing about G, tail 5| to Q\ inches. 



Adult male. Black, head and body above with a fine purple or violet lustre ; 

 under parts with a fine golden purple lustre ; wings and tail above with a green 

 lustre ; smaller wing coverts purple changing to greenish ; tibiae and under 

 tail coverts greenish ; bill and feet black, 



Female. Smaller. The specimens now under examination are not sufficient 

 to be reliable in either the lustres of the plumage or dimensions in the female. 

 Those which I regard as females are very similar to the males in lustres of 

 plumage, and there does not appear to be so much difference in the sizes of the 

 two sexes as in the species of Jamaica. 



Hab. — Cuba. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philadelphia, and Mus. Smiths. Inst., 

 Washington. 



It is with great gratification that I name this species in testimony of my 

 high estimation of Dr. John Gundlach, a most excellent and accurate natural- 

 ist, who has Avith great ability studied and made known especially the orni- 

 thology of the Island of Cuba. The researches of this gentleman have in fact 

 been of the greatest value in the Natural History of that Island. 



5. QCISCALUS BRACHYPTERUS, UObis. 



Numerous specimens in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution from 

 Porto Rico. 



This species resembles those from the Islands of Jamaica and Cuba, Q. 

 baritus, Q. Gundlachii^ especially the latter, but is smaller, with the bill more 

 slender ; the tail shorter, and the wing disproportionately shorter. The last 

 character is the most immediately available in distinguishing from either of 

 those species. This bird is larger than either of the succeeding in this memoir. 



Bill about the length of the head, gradually tapering and curved at the tip ; 

 wing short, third and fourth quills longest; tail moderate or rather long ; legs 

 and feet strong. 



Adult male. Black, the entire plumage of the head and body with a dark 

 purple and violet lustre ; wings and tail above frequently with a pale greenish 



[Dec. 




NATURAI, SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 407 



lustre, but quite generally purplish or lustrous black. Bill and feet black. 

 Total length about 11 inches, wing 5, tail 4 J to 5 inches. 



Adult female. Similar to the male in colors, but smaller ; total length about 

 9^ to 10 inches, wing 4J, tail 4 inches. 



//«&.— Porto Rico. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst., and Mus. Acad., Philada. 



Sixteen specimens of this species are in the Smiths. Mus. from the Island of 

 Porto Rico and one specimen from the Massena collection without label, in 

 the Acad. Mus. It resembles other species of this group in colors and lustres 

 of plumage, being most nearly related to those above mentioned from Jamaica 

 and Cuba, with which it has usually been confounded. It is distinguishable 

 without difficulty, on examination, by its -short wings and tail. This is un- 

 doubtedly the species alluded to under the name " Quiscalus barita,^' by Mr. E. 

 C. Taylor in Ibis, 1864, p. 1G8, and stated by him to be very abundant in Porto 

 Rico. 



€- Quiscalus niger, (Boddaert.) 



Oriolus niger, Bodd. Tab. PL Enl. p. 31, (1783.) 

 Troupiale noir, de St. Domingue, Buffon, (name on plate.) 

 Le Troupiale noir, Buff. PI. Enl. iii., p. 241. 



Buff. PL Enl. 534. 



Specimens of both sexes in the Smiths. Mus. from the Island of St. Domingo 

 or Hayti, and distinct specifically from either of the preceding or any other 

 species known to me. This is, in my opinion, undoubtedly the bird figured by 

 Buffon as cited above, but not with entire success, the tail not being sufficiently 

 *' etagee," though so described in his text. This figure is about the size of the 

 female : the bill and feet are too lightly colored. It probably represents the 

 female in plumage not mature. 



This species is smaller than either of the preceding, the male being rather 

 smaller than the female of the Cuba species, Q. Gundlachii, and the female (in 

 this species) much smaller than the male. The bill is straight, and gradually 

 pointed, not curved, more slender than in either of the preceding, and the 

 commissure nearly straight ; wing moderate, third and fourth quills longest 

 and nearly even; tail rather long, graduated; legs and feet rather strong. 

 Easily distinguished from either of the preceding by its straight, sharp bill. 



Adult male. Black, head and body with a dark purple lustre nearly uniform 

 above and below ; wings and tail above with a green lustre. Bill and feet 

 bluish black. Total length about 10^ inches, wing 5, tail 4^ inches 



Adult female. Similar to the male in color and lustres of plumage. Smaller, 

 total length about 9 inches, wing 4^, tail 4 inches. 



Ilab. — St. Domingo. '' Jeremie." Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



7. Quiscalus inplexirostris, Swainson. 



Quiscalus inflexirostris. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 300, (1838.) 



Cab. Cy. fig. 52, (wood cut.) 



One specimen only in the Acad. Mus. seems to be this species, but which is, 

 unfortunately, without label stating locality. The bill is exactly the length 

 and otherwise very nearly as given by Mr. Swainson as cited above, though 

 somewhat thicker. It is the only specimen that I have ever seen in which the 

 commissure is an uninterrupted curve or arc of a circle, — not straight nor sin- 

 uated as in all other species known to me (except Q. TW/er of St. Domingo) 

 and described in this memoir. It is apparently adult, but probably in not 

 quite mature plumage. 



Male nearly adult? Bill rather longer than the head, curved, the upper 

 and under mandibles nearly equal in thickness, commissure curved and the 

 edges of both mandibles inflexed ; wing moderate, second, third and fourth 

 quills longest and very nearly equal ; tail moderate or rather long, graduated ; 

 legs and feet strong. Total length about 10 inches, wing 5, tail 4^ inches, 

 tarsus about 1|, chord of upper mandible about one and four-fifths inches. 



Black, entire plumage of head and body with a dark purple lustre ; wings 



1866.] 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



externnlly with a green luatre. In the present specimen, which is probsihly not 

 fully mature, the tail is plain black. Bill and feet black, the latter (feet) 

 brownish ; claws strong, brownish black. 



//f//).— Unknown. fSpec. in Mus. Acad., Philadelphia, from the Massena 

 collection. 



The lustres of the plumage in this species are generally similar to those of 

 all the other species of the sub-group here designated Jloloquiscalus, but the 

 purple is rather darker than in either. The specimen now described is prob- 

 ably not mature in plumage, and the lustres of the plumage, therefore, not 

 entirely reliable as characters. 



Of all the specimens that I have seen of Quiscali, this comes the nearest to 

 Mr. Swainson's description and figure of Q. inflezirostris, and in fact there is no 

 other that I can suspect as possibly that species, on account of the peculiarly 

 curved bill. No locality is known to me, and at this time I do not remember 

 ever having seen the species mentioned by any writer since Swainson. 



8. QuiscALUS LUGUBRis, Swainson. 



Quiscalus lugubris. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 299, (1838.) 

 Chalcophanes minor, Cabanis Mus. Hein. i., p. 297, (1851)? 



Cab. Cy. fig. 54 c. 



This is another of the species of this difficult group, with the lustres of the 

 plumage uniform purple on the head and body, and green on the wings and 

 tail. It is rather smaller than the species immediately preceding [Q. injiexiros- 

 tris) and decidedly smaller than all others preceding. Specimens from Trini- 

 dad and South America in the Acad. Mus., Philada. 



Adult male. Bill about the length of the head, commissure nearly straight, 

 but rather abruptly curved at the point ; wing rather long, third and fourth 

 quills longest and nearly equal ; tail rather long, graduated ; legs and feet 

 strong. Total length about 9J to 10 inches, wing 4J to 4f , tail 4 to 4^ inches. 



Black, entire plumage of the head and body with a rich purple or violet 

 lustre tinged with golden ; shorter wing coverts or shoulders purple ; wings 

 and tail and upper and under tail coverts with a green lustre ; bill and feet 

 black. 



Hab. — South America. Island of Trinidad. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



The largest specimen now before me is from Trinidad, all the measurements 

 of which are rather larger than as given by Mr. Swainson in his description, 

 as above cited. The smallest is probably from Brazil, and is that which at 

 present I regard as described by Dr. Cabanis as C. minor as above. In all the 

 species of this group, of which I have series of specimens, there is some diver- 

 sity of size, and, finding no other appreciable character than this diversity in 

 the specimens noAV under examination, I regard them as one species. This bird 

 seems to be the most common species of South America and of the Island of 

 Trinidad. 



9. Quiscalus mexicanus, nobis. 



A single specimen in the Acad. Mus., selected with other birds from a large 

 collection made in Mexico by M. Bruzin, is different from either of the preced- 

 ing species. It is one of the smaller species and most resembles the immedi- 

 ately preceding [Q. luf/ubris), but is rather larger and has the bill much stronger 

 aud more curved Its colors and lustres are nearly the same as that species, 

 but seem to be of a richer golden-purple lustre on the under parts (as in some 

 species of Molothr us and in Q. Gundlachii of Cuba.) 



Adult male. Bill longer than the head, thick, curved, especially in the 

 terminal third of its length ; wing moderate, second and third quills longest ; 

 tail moderate, graduated; legs and feet strong. Total length 9| to lOj 

 inches, wing 4^, tail 4^ to 4| inches. 



Black, entire plumage of the head and body with a rich golden purple or 

 violet lustre, especialy on the neck behind and breast ; shoulders bluish purple ; 

 wings and tail and under tail coverts with green lustre ; the upper tail coverts 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



also show a green lustre in some lights, but are tinged also with purple ; bill 

 and feet black. 



Ifab. — Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada. 



10. QuiscALUs RECTiROSTRis, nobis. 



This is a small species, of which one specimen is in Acad. Mus. without label 

 stating locality. It is quite distinct from any other, though of the same gen- 

 eral colors or lustres of plumage and is strongly characterized by its straight, 

 slender and sharp bill. It is smaller than either of the preceding, though the 

 present specimen may be a female. 



Bill straight or very slightly curved at the tip, slender, gradually tapering,, 

 pointed, under mandible rather the thicker, commissure straight, edges in- 

 flexed ; wing moderate, third and fourth quills longest and nearly equal ; tail 

 rather long, graduated ; legs and feet moderate ; claws curved, sharp. The 

 tail is scarcely as long, proportionately, as in other species of this sub-group, 

 and the legs, toes and claws rather more slender. Total length about 9^ 

 inches, wing 4J, tail 4 inches. Female? 



Adult ? Black, entire plumage with a dark purple lustre very slightly 

 changing to greenish on the wings and tail. Bill and feet black. In the spe- 

 cimen now described the shorter quills and wing coverts have the same purple 

 lustre as the body, while the edges of the primaries have a faint green lustre 

 scarcely preceptible, in which character this bird is peculiar in this sub-group. 

 In this specimen the under mandible is pale at the base, and the quills on their 

 under surface have a brownish tinge. 



Ilab. — Unknown. Spec, in Mus Acad., Philada. 



This is a quite peculiar species, easily recognized amongst the birds de- 

 scribed in this memoir, by its straight slender bill. It seems also to have more 

 slender legs and feet and perhaps rather shorter tail than usual, though these 

 characters are scarcely to be relied on in prepared and dried specimens. The 

 entire plumage in mature age, has, I suspect, an entirely uniform dark purple 

 lustre, including wings and tail, or perhaps slightly greenish on those parts 

 only. 



The seven species last above given (Nos. 3. to 10 of this memoir) are all that 

 I consider myself justified in regarding as entitled to be established and. be- 

 longing to Jhis sub-group, which I have designated Holoquiscalus. In the 

 Academy Museum, however, there are several specimens in plumage not 

 mature, but probably of this sub-group, which I cannot refer to either of 

 these species and my present opinion is that there are other species yet 

 unknown. 



3. Megaquiscalus. 



The species of this sub-group are the largest of the genus Quiscalus. They 

 are easily recognized by their size, robust organization and long and graduated 

 tails. 



11. Quiscalus major, Vieillot. 



Quiscalus major, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxviii., p. 487, (1819.) 

 Gracula quiscula, Bartr. Trav. p. 290. 

 Gracula barita, Wils. Am. Orn. vi., p. viii. 

 Quiscalus corvinus, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 300, (1838.) 

 Bonap. Am. Orn. i. pi. 4. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 187, Oct. ed. iv., pi. 220. 

 Numerous specimens from Georgia, South Carolina and other States and 

 localities in southern North America are in the the Acad. Mus. and also in the 

 Mus. Smiths. Specimens in Mr. Xantus' collection from Colima, Western 

 Mexico, seem to be this species, though not in mature plumage and may be 

 nearly allied only. 



Form rather lengthened but robust ; bill strong, about the length of the 

 head ; wing rather long, second and third quills usually longest, though the 



1866.] 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



first four qiiills are frequently nearly equal ; tail long, graduated, lateral 

 feathers about 2^ inclies sliorter than the central ; legs and feet strong. 



Adult male. Black, head and neck with a fine purple lustre, rather abrupt- 

 ly defined on the lower part of the neck behind and succeeded by a fine green 

 lustre which passes into a purple or steel blue on the lower back and upper 

 tail coverts. On the under parts the i)urple lustre of the head and neck passes 

 more gradually into green on the abdomen ; under tail coverts usually purplish 

 blue, frequently plain black. Smaller wing coverts with green lustre ; larger 

 coverts greenish bronzed ; quills frequently plain black, with a greenish or 

 bronzed edging and slight lustre. Tail usually with a slight bluish or greenish 

 lustre, frequently, plain black. Bill and feet black. Iris yellow. Total length 

 about 15 inches, wing 7, tail 6 J to 1 inches. 



Adult female. Smaller. Upper parts dark brown, lighter on the head and 

 neck behind ; darker and nearly a dull black on the lower part of the back and 

 upper tail coverts ; under parts lighter, dull yellowish brown ; tibije and under 

 tail coverts darker ; wings and tail dull brownish black ; upper parts frequent- 

 ly with a slight greenish lustre. Total length about 12^ inclies, wing 5^ to 6, 

 tail 5^ inches. 



Ilab. — Southern North America. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



12. QuiscALUs AssiMiLis, Sclater. 



Quiscalus assimilis, Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 141, (1862.) 



" Q. nitenti-niger, capite undique cum pectore purpurascentibus : long, tota 

 in mari 13-0, alae 6-7, caudae 7-0, in faem. 10-0, aim 5-2, caudae 5-3, poll. Angl. 

 et dec." 



'• Obs. Affiniss. Q. majori, sed crassitie minore et colore magis violaceo dis- 

 tinguenda." Sclater, as above. 



Ilab. — Bogota. Spec, in coll. Dr. Sclater, London. 



This species I have not seen. 



13. Quiscalus macrourus, Swainson. 



Quiscalus macrourus, Swains. Cab. Cy., p. 299, (1838.) 



" Quiscalus caudatus," Name on specimen in Massena collection. 



B-aird B. of N. A. pi. 58. Kept. U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv. pi. 20. 



Specimens from Texas, Panama and Vera Paz in the Acad. Mtis. and from 

 Texas, Mexico, Yucatan, Guatemala, and Turbo, and Carthagena, New Grenada, 

 in Mus. Smiths. Inst. In the large number of the Smithsonian collection, 

 probably representing all ages and stages of plumage, there is some variation 

 in size and in the shades or lustres of apparently adult males, but I have not 

 determined reliable characters for more than one species. This bird seems to 

 inhabit all of Central America and the adjacent countries of both North and 

 South America. 



The largest species of this genus. Form lengthened but robust ; bill strong, 

 longer than the head ; wing long, third quill usually longest ; tail long, grad- 

 uated, outer feathers three to five inches shorter than those in the middle ; 

 legs and feet strong. 



Adult male. Black, head, neck, back and entire under parts with a fine 

 bluish purple lustre ; lower part of back and the upper tail coverts and also 

 the abdomen and under tail coverts frequently with green lustre, though in 

 specimens apparently not fully adult those parts are sometimes bluish bronze, 

 inclining to dark steel blue. Wings and tail with a slight purplish lustre, 

 smaller coverts with bluish green and larger coverts with greenish bronzed 

 lustre. Bill and feet black. Iris yellow. Total length 17^- to 20 inches, wing 

 about 8, tail 8 to 10^ inches. 



Female. Smaller, and generally resembling the female of Q. major, but 

 darker colored above. Entire upper parts dark brown, nearly black and with 

 a green lustre on the back ; wings and tail dull brownish black. Under parts 

 light, dull yellowish brown ; paler on the throat and with a trace of narrow 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



dark line from each side of the lower mandible. Tibiae and under tail coverts 

 dark brown. Total length about 13 inches, wing G, tail 6| inches. 



Hab. — Southern North America and Central America. Spec. in. Mus. Acad., 

 Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



14. QuiscALUS TENUiROSTRis, Swainson. 



Quiscalus tenuirostris, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 299, (1838.) 



" Quiscalus orizivorus." Name on spec, in Massena collection. 



Swains. Cab. Cy., fig, 51, b. c. 



Specimens in Acad. Mus., without labels, from the Massena collection and 

 one specimen from Mexico in the Smiths. Mus., undoubtedly of this species and 

 clearly distinct from either of the preceding. The females are much lighter 

 colored than those of either Q. major or Q. macrourus, and easily to be distin- 

 guished, and in this species the slender bill is a strong and apparently reliable 

 character. It is carefully given by Mr. Swainson as above cited, and his de- 

 scription is quite sufficient for the identification of the species. 



About the size of Q. major ; form lengthened and not so robust as in either 

 of the preceding ; bill much more slender, nearly straight ; wing long, third 

 quill longest ; tail long, graduated, outer feathers about 3 inches shorter than 

 those in the middle of the tail ; feet and claws more slender than in the pre- 

 ceding species. 



Adult male. Black, the entire plumage with a fine purple lustre inclining 

 to steel blue on the wing coverts and upper tail coverts. Wings and tail with 

 a slight bluish lustre. Bill and feet black. Total length about 15 inches, 

 wing 6} to 7, tail 8 inches. 



Female. Generally resembling the females of the preceding two species, but 

 much lighter colored. Head above and neck behind light brown, inclining to 

 chestnut or bay color ; back, wings and tail dark brown, or nearly brownish 

 black. Under parts light, dull yellowish brown, much paler on the throat ; 

 tibiae and under tail coverts dark brown. Total length about 11 to 12 inches, 

 wing 5^, tail 5J to 6 inches. 



Ilab. — Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada,, and Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



This is an entirely respectable species, though apparently not much known 

 to naturalists. It belongs strictly to the sub-group of Quiscalus to which- the 

 name Megaquiscalus is given in this memoir, all the species of which are char- 

 acterized by their large size and long tails. This bird is easily recognized by 

 its slender bill, and in the adult male the lustre appears to be nearly uniform 

 purple with little change or variation in any exposure to the light. The 

 female can easily be distinguished from that of either of the preceding by its 

 lighter colors, and especially by the quite different color of the head above and 

 neck behind. In one female specimen in the Massena collection the throat 

 might be described as dull yellowish white, and the entire under parts of the 

 body but little darker. One female specimen in the Mus. Smiths., undoubtedly 

 from Mexico, clearly determines the locality of this species. 



15, Quiscalus palustris, (Swainson.) 



Scaphidurus palustris. Swains. Philos. Mag,, 1827, p. 437. 



In one of the interesting and valuable collections from North Western Mexi- 

 co, sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Col. A. J. Grayson, late of the 

 United States Army, I am greatly gratified to find two specimens of a species 

 quite unknown to me previously, and which seem to be the Mexican bird de- 

 scribed by Swainson as abovfe cited. These specimens are not in adult plu- 

 mage and are not quite so large as the dimensions given, but they are evidently 

 assuming the 'colors as given in the description, and I have no doubt are the 

 species. From Mazatlan, Mexico. 



*Mr, Swainson's description is : '' Glossy blue black ; thighs brown ; bill 

 slender, commissure straight ; legs slender ; claws long, slightly curved. 

 Total length 15 inches, bill 1 7-10, wing 6J, tail 7^, tarsi If inches," 



" Inhabits the marshes and borders of the lakes round Mexico in flocks. M. 



1866.] 




412 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Vicillot's name for tins group, Quvtcaluit, being already used in botany, I pro- 

 pose to call it Scaphidurus, as expressive of the singular boat-shaped tail com- 

 mon to most, if not all, of the species." 



The specimens now before me are probably very nearly full grown, but have 

 not entirely assumed the "glossy blue black," though that color is plainly su- 

 perceding the immature plumage. The brown of the tibisc is to be seen in 

 both specimens. 



Both of Col, Grayson's specimens arc males. About the size of Q. major; 

 wing rather shorter; tail long; bill thick, nearly straight, slightly curved at 

 the point ; legs and feet strong. 



Ilab. — xMazatlan, Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



16. QuiscALus PERUviANUS, Swaiusou. 



Quiscalus Peruvianus, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 354 (1838). 

 "Bill one inch and a-half long. Plumage glossy i)urple on the head and 

 neck, changing to green on the body beneath ; back, wings and tail black, with 

 an obscure greenish gloss. Total length about 13^ inches ; bill from the gap 

 l-T., front 1^, wings 7^, tail from the base 1^, tarsus nearly 2, middle toe and 

 claw 1-7^, hinder claws If. Commissure of the bill slightly sinuated in the 

 middle. The purple of the head and part of the neck gradually becomes steel 

 blue on the breast, and then assumes a greenish tinge on the interscapulars and 

 under part of the body. The greater wing coverts, quills, back, rump, and tail 

 are almost entirely glossy black." 



" Inhabits Peru. Mr, W, Hooker's collection, Mus. Nost." 

 This is Mr. Swainson's description, as above cited. This species I have not 

 seen, though it- is given in Mr. Jules Verreaux's Catalogue of the Baron Lafres- 

 naye's collection, recently presented to the Boston Natural History Society by 

 Dr. Henry Bryant, but which, I regret to say, I have not examined. 



4. Ilypopyrrhus. 

 (Genus Hypopyrrhus, Bonap. Consp. Av. p. 425.) 



17. Quiscalus pyrohypogaster, (De Tarragon). 



Cassicus pyrohypogaster, De Tarr., Rev. Zool. 1847, p. 252. 

 " Agelaius pyrrhogaster, (Tarrag.) " Gray Gen. iii. app. p. 15. 



General form robust, plumage of the head with acicular feathers, and some- 

 what rigid ; wing moderate, third and fourth quills longest ; tail rather long, 

 rounded ; legs and feet rather short, strong ; bill about the length of the head, 

 thick at base, curved slightly at the point. Wide abdominal transverse band 

 and under tail coverts bright scarlet, all other parts of the plumage black. 

 Acicular feathers of the head and throat lustrous, but other parts plain black. 

 A few axillary feathers scarlet. Bill ard feet brownish-black. 



Total length about 11 inches, wing 5}, tail b\ inches. 



Hah. — Northern South America; New Grenada. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Phila. 



This singular bird is easily recognized by its scarlet abdominal band and 

 under tail coverts, and plain black general plumage. It is evidently of this 

 group, but possibly entitled to generic distinction. 



II. Genus SCOLECOPHAGUS Swainson. 

 (Genus Scolecophagus, Swains. Faun, Bor. Am. ii. p. 494.) 

 1. Scolecophagus. 

 1. ScoLBCOPHAGUs FERRUGINEUS, (Gmelin). 



Oriolus ferrugineus, et niger, Gm, Syst, Nat, i, p. 393 (1788). 

 Turdus hudsonius, et labradorius, Gm. Syst. Nat. i, p, 818, 832 (1788). • 

 Pendulinus ater, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p 320 (1816). 

 Wilson Am. Orn. iii. pi. 21. And. B. of Am. pi. 157 ; oct. ed. iv. pi. 222. 

 An abundant species of Eastern North America, specimens of which are 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 4 13 



common in collections, but of considerable variation in colors in plumages not 

 mature. Tail of moderate length, rounded at the end ; wing rather long, 

 pointed, second quill longest; bill shorter than the head, much more slender 

 than in Quiscalus, pointed ; legs and feet rather strong ; claws slender, sharp. 



Adult male. Black, with greenish-purple lustre on the head and body, 

 especially on the under parts, wings and coverts, rump, upper and under tail 

 coverts ; abdomen and tail with green lustre. The green lustre frequently ex- 

 tends over the back or entire upper parts of the body. Plumage usually more 

 or less edged and tipped with ferruginous, especially in autumn, which fre- 

 quently is so strongly marked as to give the prevailing color. Total length 9 

 to 9} inches, wing 4|, tail 4 inches. 



Female, Dark plumbeous or ashy-black ; wings and tail with green lustre. 

 Back usually with a greenish lustre ; quills usually edged with ferruginous. 

 Smaller than the male. Total length about 8 inches ; wing 4^, tail 3 J inches. 



Young. Head and body dull ferruginous ; paler on the under parts ; stripe 

 over the eye pale dull ochre ; wings and tail black, with greenish lustre. 



Jlab. — Eastern North America. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. 

 Smiths. Inst. Washington, 



2. Euphagus. 



2. ScoLECOPHAGus CYANOCEPHALUS, (Wagler). 



Psarocolius cyanocephalus, Wagl, Isis, 1829, p. 758. 

 Scolecophagus mexicanus, Swains, Cab. Cy, p. 302 (1838), 

 Quiscalus Breweri, And. B. of Am., oct. ed, vii, p. 345 (1843). 



And. B. of Am., oct. ed. vii. pi. 492. 



This is a common species of Central and Western North America and 

 Mexico, of which numerous specimens are in the Smiths. Mus. and Acad. Mus. 



Bill shorter than the head, thick at the base, conical, pointed ; wing long, 

 pointed, second quill longest ; tail moderate, rounded ; legs and feet rather 

 slender. Total about 9J to 10 inches ; wing 5 to b\^ tail 4J to 4^- inches. 

 Sexes nearly of the same size. 



Adult male. Black, head only with bluish violet or purple lustre, all other 

 parts with fine green lustre ; bill and feet black. 



Female, Dull brown, with a plumbeous tinge, lighter on the head and 

 breast, and frequently tinged with rusty or dull yellowish ; back darker : tail 

 and wings generally with greenish lustre. The young of both sexes have 

 nearly the entire plumage dull rusty brown, especially the head and under 

 parts of the body, but more as a color of the plumage, as in Molothrus, than 

 with the feathers merely edged, as in S. ferrugineus. 



Hah. — Central and Western North America, Texas, Mexico. Spec, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Inst, Washington, 



3, Dives. 



3. Scolecophagus Dives, (Bonaparte), 



Lampropsar dives, Bonap, Consp. Av, i, p. 425 (1850), 

 " L, Dives, Caban,," Bonap. ut supra. 

 Lampropsar dives, Cabanis, Mus. Hein, i. p. 194 (1851)? 

 Quiscalus Sumichrasti, De Saussere, Rev. et Mag, Zool. 1859, p. 119. 

 Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1859, pi. 3, fig. 2, 3. 



Apparently an abundant species of Mexico and Central America, of which 

 numerous specimens are in the Smiths. Mus, and Mus. Acad. 



Bill about the length of the head, straight, thick, pointed ; wing moderate or 

 rather short, third, fourth and fifth quills longest, and generally nearly equal ; 

 tail moderate, rounded ; legs and feet strong. 



Adult male. Black, with a weak greenish lustre in the entire plumage. Bill 

 and feet black. Many specimens would be regarded properly as only shining 

 black, the green lustre being scarcely perceptible. Total length 11 to 12 inches j 

 wing 5, tail 5 inches. 



1866.] 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Female. Smaller; total length 10 to lOj inches. Colors quite similar to 

 those of the mule, but of rather duller black. 



Hah. — Mexico, Central America. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. (since about 

 1840!) and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington. 



4. ScoLRCOPHAGUS ATU0VI0LACBU8, D'Orbigny. 



Quiscalus atroviolaceus, D'Orb. La Sagra's Cuba, Orn. p. 121 (1839). 



La Sagra's Cuba, Aves, pi. 19. 



Apparently confined to the Island of Cuba. This is another of the robust 

 species, with the bill short and thick, and tail of moderate length and rounded 

 at the end. 



About the size of, and general form very similar to the last species (»*?. Dives), 

 but with the wing longer (and lustre of plumage entirely different). Bill strong, 

 thick at base, and rather abruptly tapering, pointed ; wing moderate, third and 

 fourth quills longest; tail rather long, rounded ; legs and feet strong. 



Adult male. Black, the head and entire body above and below with rich 

 violet or purple lustre ; wings and tail with green lustre. Shorter quills edged 

 with violet, smaller wing coverts violet, greater coverts and quills edged with 

 green. Bill and feet black. The entire plumage having a fine silky character. 

 Total length 10 to 10^ inches ; wing 5^, tail 4^ inches. 



Female. Smaller ; total length about 9 to 9^ inches. Black, Avith the lus- 

 tres of the plumage very nearly as in the male. 



Ifab. — Cuba. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Wash- 

 ington. 



5. SCOLECOPHAGUS ^KQUATOUIALIS (Sclatcr.) 



Quiscalus a?quatorialis, Sclat. Cat. Am. Birds, p. 140, (1861.) 

 " Ps. cayennensis. Amer. Merid." Label in Massena coll. 



One specimen from the Massena collection in the Acad. Mus. seems to be this 

 species, though not in all particulars corresponding wdth Dr. Sclater's diagno- 

 sis, as above cited. It is smaller than either of the preceding species of the 

 subgroup herein designated Dives. 



" Q. nigrosericeus unicolor, aeneo-nitens, alis intus brunnescentioribus ; long, 

 tota 9-5, alae 4-4, caudae 3-8, rostri a rictu 1-05, poll, et dec. Angl. ^ mari sim. 

 sed minor." 



" Obs. Affinis speciei praec. [Q, Sumichrasti) et quoad formam similis, sed 

 crassitie minore." 



" Hab. — Babahoyo." (Sclater, as above.) 



III. Genus IDIOPSAR, nobis. 



In the collection of the Smithsonian Institution I find a specimen of a very 

 interesting and singular bird, evidently Icterine, and allied to Quiscalus and 

 Scolecophagus, but not to be referred with any considerable degree of propriety 

 to either of those or to any other genus of this group. The tail is short, nearly 

 even at the end, and emarginate, and the wings long. General form short and 

 compact, bill about the length of the head, strong, slightly curved, with the 

 commissure much inflexed in both mandibles, culmen distinct. Legs and feet 

 moderate. 



1. Idiopsar brachyurus, nobis. 



Entire plumage of the head and body bluish cinereous or plumbeous, darker 

 on the upper parts and lighter on the under parts, neal'ly white at the base of 

 the under mandible, quills dark ashy brown, primaries edged externally with 

 light ashy nearly white ; tail feathers dark brown, nearly black, edged with 

 light ashy. Lower abdomen or ventral region light ashy nearly white. Bill 

 dark horn color, under mandible lighter, especially at the base. Tarsi and 

 toes light brown. 



Total length about 1^ inches, wing 4, tail 2|, bill 1 inch. 



Hab. — Bolivia. "La Paz." Mus. Smiths. lust. Collected and presented by 

 Mr. D. K. Cartter. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4l5 



IV. Genus POTAMOPSAR, Sclater. 



(Subgenus Potamopsar, Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 141.) 



1. Potamopsar minor (Spix.) 



Icterus minor, Spix Av. Bras. i. p. 67 (1824.) 



Spix Av. Bras. 1 pi. 63, fig. 2. 



Frontal feathers short, erect and rigid. Bill shorter than the head, rather 

 slender, and abruptly tapering, pointed ; wing rather short, third, fourth and 

 fifth quills longest and nearly equal ; tail rather long, graduated ; legs and feet 

 moderate, or rather slender. 



Totai'length about 9 inches, wing 4, tail 4 inches. 



Adult male. Entirely bluish black, with little or no lustre and nearly uniform 

 on all parts, including the wings and tail. Bill and feet black. 



Hab. — Rio Napo (Mr. Lawrence), Rio Javarri (Mr. J. Verreaux), 



It is perhaps expedient to follow Dr. Sclater in regarding this bird as Icterus 

 minor ^ Spix, as above cited, but neither the figure nor description of that author 

 will quite establish its claims satisfactorily. If really the species of Spix, it is 

 one of his worst figures and descriptions, which is saying much ! 



This is a rare species in American collections, the only specimens that I have 

 seen being one in the Smiths. Mus , from Mr. Verreaux, labelled " Rio Javarri," 

 and another, in my friend Mr. Lawrence's collection, labelled " Rio Napo," 

 both undoubtedly correct. 



V. Genus CASSIDIX, Lesson. 



Genus Cassidix, Less. Traite d'Orn. i. p. 433 (1831.) 



Genus Scaphidurus, Swains. Faun. Bor. Am. ii. p. 494 (1831) and Scaphidura, 



Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 273 (1837), but not Philos. Mag. 1827, p. 436, which is 



Quiscalus. 



This is a group easily distinguished generically, especially by the strong bill 

 flattened above, and in adult plumage by the somewhat lengthened and proba- 

 bly partially erectile plumage of the neck. The color is black in all the spe- 

 cies, and in my opinion is always lustrous in the adults of both sexes. In the 

 young of all species known to me the color is dull or plain black. Specimens 

 in plumages not mature are much the more common in all collections, and 

 such have been repeatedly described, but very doubtfully to the comfort of the 

 student. It is quite impossible for me to coincide with those authors who re- 

 gard this group as but one species, and that by a name which is of quite 

 doubtful application to any ! 



1. Cassidix ater (Vieillot.) 



Cassicus ater, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 363 (1816. 



Psarocolius palliatus, Wagler Syst. Av. No. 4 (1827.) 



Del Grande, Azara, Apunt. Hist. Nat. Paraguay, i. p. 273. 



Scaphidura barita. Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 301 (1838.) 



Scaphidura crassirostra, Swains. Cab. Cy. p. 301 ? 

 This seems to be the most common species of South America. Specimens 

 now before me are from Brazil, Cayenne, Ecuador and New Grenada, and are 

 quite identical with each other throughout, and in my opinion different speci- 

 fically from the species of Central America and Mexico, though about»the same 

 size. 



Large, entirely black, the upper parts having a fine bronzed yellowish and 

 greenish lustre, becoming violet on the rump and upper tail coverts. Bill very 

 strong and wide at base, curved in its upper outline, pointed, flat above and 

 extended into the frontal plumage, terminating in a semicircle. Plumage of 

 the neck rather full and long, and partially erectile. Wing long, pointed, first 

 quill longest, tail moderate or rather long, rounded, feet and legs strong, claws 

 sharp. 



Total length about 14 to 16 inches, wing 7 to 8, tail 6 to 6^ inches (adult). 



1866.] 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hab. — Brazil, Ecuador. Probably inhabits nearly all of South America. 

 Spec, in Mas. Acad., IMiilada., and Smiths. Mus., Washington. 



Easily distinguished from the species immediately succeeding (C. Mexicanus) 

 by the bronzed and yellowish lustre of the upper parts in the adult, which is 

 always present but varies much in extent (in the adult plumage only). " The 

 entire head is fine blue, and the under i)arts have a yellowish violet lustre ; 

 wings and tail purplish black. The bronzed lustre of the upper parts varies 

 according to age or stage of plumage, and is frequently restricted to a wide 

 transverse band across the upper part of the back and neck behind, and is to- 

 tally wanting in the young bird. The entire plumage in this species has fine 

 brilliant lustres, as herein described, except the wings and tail, which are rich 

 purplish black. 



The young in this species has the bill always thick and strong, though not 

 80 long as in the adult. The entire plumage (in the young) is brownish black, 

 frequently with the tips and edges of feathers showing some lustre. Total 

 length of young usually about 12 inches. The two descriptions of Mr. Swain- 

 son, cited above, I regard as very probably those of the adult and young of this 

 species. 



2. Cassidix mexicanus, Lesson. 



Cassidix mexicanus, Less. Traite d'Orn. i. p. 433 (1831.) 

 " Corvus mexicanus, Gra." Less, ut sup. 

 Corvus mexicanus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 375? 



This is apparently an abundant species of Mexico and Central America. 

 Specimens in the Smithsonian Museum, from Mexico and Guatemala, and in 

 Mr. Lawrence's collection from Panama. It is easily distinguished, in adult 

 plumage, from the preceding by its fine violet purple lustre, nearly uniform on 

 the upper and under parts ef the body (not bronzed yellowish and greenish, as 

 in the preceding, C. ater). 



Large, entirely black, with a fine violet purple lustre on the body above and 

 below; head bluish violet; wings and tail fine purplish or greenish black. Bill 

 very strong, thick, curved in its upper outline, pointed, fiat above and extend- 

 ed into the frontal plumage, ending in a semicircle ; wing long, pointed, w^ith 

 the second quill slightly longest ; tail rather long, rounded ; feet and legs 

 strong; claws curved, sharp. Total length 14 to 15 inches, wing 7^ to 8, tail 

 6 to 6^ inches. 



Young. Bill thick and strong as in the adult, but shorter ; entire plumage 

 dull brownish black, or with feathers edged and tipped with the lustres of the 

 adult. Total length usually 12 or 13 inches. 



About the same size or slightly smaller than the preceding, with the legs and 

 feet rather stronger. Easily distinguished in adult plumage, but the two spe- 

 cies are very similar and scarcely distinguishable in young plumage, both be- 

 ing nearly uniform brownish black. This is very probably the species named 

 by Lesson, as above, but whether it is the Corvus mexicanus, Gmelin, may be 

 difficult to determine. 



ffab. — Mexico, Central America. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. 

 Smiths. Inst., Washington. 



3. Cassidix oryzivorus (Gmelin). 



Oriokis oryzivorus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 386 (1788). 

 The Rice Oriole, Lath. Gen. Syn. i. p. 423. 



Gray Gen. ii. pi. 84? 



This is a species much smaller than either of the preceding, and is, perhaps, 

 that figured by Mr. George Robert Gray in his great work, <' The Genera of 

 Birds," as bove cited. For the purpose of more fully understanding this spe- 

 cies, I copy the original description of Latham, on the faith of which, only, 

 Gmelin gave the name : — 



" Length nine inches. Bill an inch and a half long, black, stout, sharp, a 

 y^ry little bent at the tip ; flat on the top towards the base, where it is round- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



ed, and passes far back on the forehead, and is there a little protuberant like 

 the former ones : the general color of the plumage is black ; the head, neck 

 and breast have a fine purple gloss ; the whole wing, and rest of the body, 

 black; the tail consists of twelve feathers, and was five inches in length, but 

 had been longer^ as the ends were spoiled ; the wings reached a little beyond the 

 insertion of the tail ; the legs were wanting." 



" I found this species in the collection of Miss Blomefield ; it was supposed 

 to come from Cayenne. A label annexed gave it the name of Oiseau de Ria 

 de ffrosseespece." 



At present I have seen, in adult plumage, no specimen small enough to be 

 properly or without misgiving regarded as the species described by Latham, 

 nor do I quite understand the ''protuberant" character of the bill as stated by 

 him. Further, in all specimens that I have seen the wings reach so far be- 

 yond the insertion of the tail that his description in that particular is by no 

 means applicable, and on the whole I am not without suspicion that this de- 

 scription is not of a bird of the genus Cassidix at all. This description is the 

 sole foundation of the species, if such it is, and the name, as given by Gmelin 

 on the faith of it, has been applied by nearly all late authors, evidently on the 

 supposition that there is one species only extant, which supposition I regard as 

 erroneous, and as probably so, the application of this name. 



At present (assuming that this may be a species of Cassidix)^ two specimens 

 now before me, it is possible to refer to it, and so also is the bird figured by 

 Mr. Gray, as above. The two specimens before me are in young plumage, and 

 are the smallest of this genus that I have ever seen. The bill is smaller and 

 more slender than in either of the preceding, especially the upper mandible. 

 One specimen from the collection of my friend Mr. Lawrence, of New York, is 

 adolescent, the plumage on the body showing some edgings of purple lustre, 

 nearly uniform above and below. This specimen is from Brazil ; the other 

 specimen is in the Acad. Mus., and without label, stating locality. It is nearly 

 unifftrm brownish black, as in young birds of other species of this genus, but 

 with numerous traces of bluish purple lustre. 



Mr. Gray's figure, which I regard as probably representing the nearly adult 

 of the same species as the two young birds here mentioned, is that of a bird 

 about \Q\ inches in total length, of nearly uniform bluish purple color. The 

 young bird in the Acad. Mus. measures, total length 10 inches, wing 6, tail 4J 

 inches. 



4. Cassidix Vibilloti (Bonaparte). 



Scaphidurus Vieilloti, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 426 (1850). 



In the very extensive and valuable collection of birds of Central and South 

 America now belonging to the Smithsonian Institution, I find one specimen, 

 which, though in young plumage, may be different from either of the species 

 above mentioned. It is labelled, in the handwriting of Mr. Jules Verreaux, 

 ^^Scaphidurus Vieilloti^ Bonap.," and the conclusion of that most accurate and 

 excellent ornithologist is always entit.ed to great respect and consideration. 

 The following is Bonaparte's diagnosis : — 



" Sc. Vieilloti, Bp. (Cassicus niger? Vieill.) Gal. Ois. t. 89? ex Cayenna, An- 

 tillis. Mus. Darmstadt. Statura media, remigibu? primis quatuor apice emargi- 

 nato dilitatisJ^ 



This specimen is in young plumage, being nearly uniform brownish black, 

 the bill slender, comparatively, and more narrow above than in any other I 

 have seen. The primaries are wide, but not especially so at their ends, and 

 have a slight emarginate character at their tips. Total length about 11 J 

 inches, wing 5^, tail 4^ inches. *' Young male." 



At present I regard this as the fourth species of Cassidix with which I am 

 acquainted. 



The Annual Reports of the Librarian and Curators were read, as fol- 

 lows : 

 1866.] 27 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



RErORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarinn most respectfully reports that the number of donations to the 

 Library from January to December, 1866, inclusive, is 1603. 



Of these there were volumes 499 



pamphlets.. 1102 



maps 2 



Total 1603 



A» follows : 



Folios 16 



Quartos 402 



Octavos 1158 



Duodecimos 25 



Maps 2 



Total 1603 



These were derived from the following sources : 



Authors 105 Surgeon General, U. S. Army..,. 1 



Editors 132 S. S. Haldeman 4 



Societies 488 Chas. H. Hart 1 



Library Fund 318 Hon. Secretary of the Navy 1 



Executors of Dr. Wilson 98 F. Leypoldt...'. 1 



Edw. Wilson 115 Wm. M. Gabb 1 



Rathmell Wilson 235 J. E. Gray, M. D 1 



Publishers 8 Geological Survey of India 5 



Isaac Lea 1 Chas. E. Smith 1 



Dr. Leidy 4 War Department, U. S.Army.... • 1 



Ministerof Public Works, France 4 



Wm. S. Vaux 11 Total 1603 



United States Congress 1 



And were divided as follows : 



Anatomy and Physiology 34 Icthyology , 11 



Antiquities 1 Journals 1046 



Bibliography 13 Mineralogy 6 



Biography 2 Ornithology 100 



Botany 31 Physical Science 10 



Chemistry 5 Mammalogy 5 



Conchology '73 Maps 2 



Entomology 51 Religion... 1 



General Natural History 83 "Voyages and Travels 15 



Geology 91 



Helminthology 1 Total 1603 



Herpetology 16 , 



All of which is most respectfully submitted by 



J. D, SERGEANT, 



Librarian, 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS, 



For 1866. 



The Curators, in presenting their Annual Report, take the opportunity of 

 expressing their satisfaction and pleasure in the prospect that their suggestion 

 of the last Report, in relation to an increase of accommodations for the over- 

 crowded Museum and Library, is likely to be carried out. The success of the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Committee on the Building Fund, created for the purpose of obtaining means 

 for the purchase of a suitable lot of ground arid the erection of a new and 

 larger Hall for the Academy, should encourage us to renewed efforts to secure 

 the most ample ineans for the objects of the Institution. 



The Curators further take pleasure in announcing to the Academy that the 

 Museum, committed to their charge, is in a far better condition of preservation 

 than in the previous years. The liberal appropriations made by the Academy, 

 of which only three-fourths were expended, through the exertion of our asso- 

 ciate, Mr. Cassin, has enabled us thoroughly to disinfect and put in good order 

 our- magnificent collection in ornithology. 



Without expense to the Academy, under our direction and through the aid 

 of several members, students operating under the Jessup Beneficiary Fund, 

 the American Herbarium has not only been renovated, but all the plants have 

 been poisoned so as to secure them from future depredation, and now the 

 same process is being carried on with the General Herbarium. Through similar 

 aid, we have been enabled to put the Entomological Cabinet in good order. 

 All other portions of the Museum are in an excellent state of preservation. 



The following account exhibits the contributions to the Museum of the 

 Academy in its various departments during the year : 



Mammals and Birds. — Eight specimens of the former were presented by Mrs. 

 Mary Brainerd, C. J. Wood, A. H. Smith and Drs. J. F. Meigs and W. Camac. 



One hundred and sixty-five specimens of 90 species of birds, chiefly from 

 Western America and the West Indies, were presented by the Smithsonian In- 

 stitution. Fifty-three specimens of 31 species were presented by Dr. H. B. 

 Butcher ; and 28 specimens, mainly in young plumage, by C. J. Wood. Seven- 

 ty-three specimens were presented by W. S. Vaux, E. D. Cope, J. Leidy, J. F. 

 Cavada, Dr. E. Coues, C. S. Westcott, Jos. Jeanes, R. Bridges, J. G. Bell, T. 

 Julius, E. P. Borden, and Dr. W. A. B. Norcom. 



Reptiles and Fishes. — Twenty-three specimens of the former, and 18 of the 

 latter were presented by Dr. Lemuel J. Deal, S. Powel, Miss Sallie Bridges, E. 

 Diffenbaugh, W. C. Henszey, and R. J. Hardie. Small collections of both were 

 also presented by Dr. Slack, and Mr. Hoopes. 



Mollusks. — Thirteen hundred species of shells, of which 793 were new to our 

 Museum, were presented by the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Tryon presented 

 84 species of shells, in addition to a small collection. Dr. C. J. Cleborne pre- 

 sented a collection of 140 species. Ninety-five species, in addition to several 

 small collections, were also presented by Rev. E. R. Beadle, John B. Eshleman, 

 T. A. Conrad, I. Lea, J. H. Thompson, Dr. LeConte, C. F. Parker, Miss Bridges, 

 Ool. Jas. Greer, Patricio Paz, E. Gaussoin, Dr. E. Michener, S. Powel, and Dr. 

 Ruschenberger. 



Articulates. — James H. B. Bland presented 20*7 specimens of 130 species of 

 Coleoptera. Eighty-eight species of insects were presented by Geo. A. Propper, 

 and 41 specimens of 35 species by Dr. H. B. Butcher. A few insects, crustace- 

 ans and worms, were also presented by Tryon Reakirt, Dr. C. J. Cleborne, C. 

 M. Wheatley, Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., R. A. Parrish, Jr., Dr. LeConte, K. K. Worn- 

 rath, W. McConnell, and S. Powel. 



Radiates. — Of these, fourteen were presented by Dr. C. J. Cleborne, W. M. 

 Gabb, George W. Tryon, Jr., and Miss Bridges. 



Fossils. — A collection of fossil fishes from the cretaceous formation of the 

 Upper Missouri was presented by George A. Propper. Sixty-four specimens of 

 fossils, together with several small collections, were presented by Dr. Geo. H. 

 Horn, Dr. A. C. Hamlin, W. A. Hendry, Col. James Greer, D. C. Collyer, E. D. 

 Cope, F. Ashurst, C. C. Abbott, Dr. W. Spillman, John Hanson, Mr. Da Costa, 

 W. B. Haseltine, J. Jeanes, Col Jas. J. Conner, J. F. Clew, 0. Biddle, E. Gaus- 

 soin, Dr. F. Poey, C. S. Westcott, W. Struthers, W. L. Cassin, and W. N. Allen. 



Minerals. — Mr. Lea presented a fine crystal of Phlogopite, weighing 23 pounds, 

 in addition to 19 other minerals. Fifty specimens were presented by Dr. I. I. 

 Hayes, T. D. Rand, Dr. A. C. Hamlin, Dr. F. V. Hayden, Mrs. J. F. Watson, 



18t>6.] 




420 PROOEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY Of 



Geo. Lewis, T. G. Smith, E. Gaussoin, J. 0. Trautwine, W. W. Jeffcris, Dr. 

 Ruschcnbcrfrer, Mr. Godshall, M. A. Root, J. F. Clew, D. 0. Collier, W. H. 

 Stephens, W. L. Caasiti, W. C. M. Jones, and J. M. Watson, 



Botany. — A collection of plants of the Wilkes' Explorinj^ Expedition was 

 presented by the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. A. W. Chapman presented a 

 collection of plants from Florida. The subscribers of the Library Fund pre- 

 sented a copy of SuUivant and Lesquereux' Musci Boreali-Americana. Mr. E. 

 Diffenbaugli ])resented a collection of 83 species of plants. Mrs. M. A. Bush 

 presented a collection of 95 marine algfe. One hundred and twelve species of 

 Californian and Rocky Mountain plants were purchased by the Academy. 



Comparative Anatomy. — Two skulls were presented by Dr. Leidy and Col. A. 

 W. Putnam, and the skeleton of a snake was deposited by the Am. Philos. 

 Society. 



The Museum of the Academy has been open, as usual, for the gratuitous ad- 

 mission of the public, two days in every week, except during the months of 

 April, May and June, when, by direction of the Academy, the Museum was open 

 five days per week. The number of visitors during the year was ^34,521, not 

 including those introduced personally by members, or admitted on other than 

 the public days, of which it is quite impossible to keep an account. 



Respectfully submitted by 



JOSEPH LEIDY, 

 Chairman of the Curators. 



The election of officers for the ensuing year was held in accordance 

 with the By-Laws, with the following result : 



President IsAAO Hays, M. D. 



Vice- Fresidents Wm. S. Vaux, 



John Cassin. 



Corresponding Secretary Joseph Jeanes. 



Recording Secretary H. C. Wood, Jr., M. D. 



Treasurer W. C. Henszey. 



Librarian J. D. Sergean t. 



Curators Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 E. D. Cope. 



Auditors ...Joseph Jeanes, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 



Publication Committee Robert Bridges, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 The following were elected members : 



Hugh Davids, Eben C, Jayne, George Vaux, Joshua T. Jeanes, 

 Coleman Sellers and George S. Schively, M. D. 

 The following were elected Correspondents : 



C. C. Gray, M. D., U. S. A. ; J. J. Wisely, M. D., U. S. A.; E. L. 

 Berthoud, Civ. Eng., Boulder City, Colorado Terr. ; Charles Elton 

 Buck, Chemist, New York ; and J. M. S. Thackara, of Pano, Peru. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 421 



ELECTIONS FOR 1866. 



The following persons were elected Members, — viz. : 



Jan. 30. — Robt. Frazer, Wm. F Jones, Edw. L. Reakirt, Rev. E. 

 R. Beadle, Geo. W. Childs, Jas. H. B. Bland, Geo. M. Woodward, 

 Thos. Guilford Smith. 



Feb 27.— Wm. R. White, John E. Graeff, Wm. Evans, Jr., Edw. 

 R. Wood, Philip C. Garrett, Chas. Hartshorne. 



March 27.— Chas. S. Wescott, Thos. C. Stellwagen, M. D., Alfonso 

 DeFiganiere, Wm. C. Keehmle^ Samuel E. Slay maker, John Turner, 

 Chas. B. Durburrow, R. Shelton Mackenzie, D. C. L., Clemmons Hunt, 

 Jas. C. Parrish, Amos R. Little, J. A. Heintzelman. 



April 24. — John B. Parker, Joseph Thomas, M. D., Josiah Hoopes, 

 Chas. S. Lewis, Tryon Reakirt, Edw. K. Tryon, Jr., Rev. Geo. D. 

 Boardman, Lemuel J. Deal, M. D., R. S. Weber, M. D., Samuel R. 

 Shipley, Wm. Sellers, Joseph Walton. 



May 29.— Jos. R. Rhoads, Wm. K. Gilbert, M. D., Samuel Huston, 

 S. Clarksou Taylor, Robt. S. Kenderdine, M. D., Daniel Haddock, Jr., 

 Henry A. Dreer, Christian C. Febeger, Henry Stille, M. D. 



June 26. — Lieut. Henry Carpenter, Brevet Major U. S. A., Geo. 

 Guier, M. D., of Costa Rica, Cent. Am., Henry B. Butcher, M. D., 

 Jason L. Fenimore, S. Raymond Roberts. 



July 31. — Geo. H. Horn, M. D., John G. Moore, Andrew Nebinger, 

 M. D., Chas. G. Ogden, Samuel L. Sbober. 



Aug. 28.— Gen. S. W>lie Crawford, U. S. A. 



Sept. 25— E. B. Vandyke, M. D., Frank H. Wyeth. 



Oct. 30.— Wm. Mayburry, M. D , W. C. Dixon, M. D. 



Dec. 11. — Jos. C. Turnpenny, Maj. A. R. Calhoun, Albert R. Leeds, 

 John Ford, Edwin J. Houston, Wm. S. Grant. 



Dec. 26. — Hugh Davids, Eben C. Jayne, George Vaux, Joshua T. 

 Jeanes, Coleman Sellers, George S. Schively, M. D. 



The following were elected Correspondents, — viz. : 



Feh. 27.— Geo. W. Clinton, of Buffalo, N. Y. 



March 27. — Robt. Gray, of Glasgow, Wm. Sinclair, of Glasgow, Rev. 

 Jos. Blake, of Gilmanton, N. H. ; D. C. Collier, of Central City, Cal. 



April 24. — Dr. Hermann Credner, Jacob Stauffer, of Lancaster, Pa. ; 

 Prof. Alfred Du Bois, of Laurette, Park Co., Col. ) J. H. Baxter, M. D., 

 U. S. A., Washington, D. C. 



May 29. — Rev. W B. Anderson, of Rochester, N. Y. ; Samuel R. 

 Carter, of Paris Hill, Oxford Co., Me. 



Jwwe26.— Geo. A. Otis, M. D., Wm. H. French, of White Haven, 

 Luzerne Co., Pa. ; M. Le Marquis de Caligny, France. 



July 31. — Frank Cowan, of Washington, D. C. 



Sept. 25.— Gabriel E. Manegault, of Charleston, S. C. 



Dec. 26.— Dr. C. C. Gray, U. S. A., of Fort Randall, Dakota, Ter. ; 

 Dr. J. J. Wisely, U. S. A., of Fort Dakota, Dakota Ter. ; E. L. Ber- 

 thoud, of Boulder City, Col. Ter.; Chas. Elton Buck, of New York: 

 J. M. S. Thackara, of Puno, Peru. 

 1866.] 




CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY, 



For I860. 



Letters were received and read as follows : 



January 9th. — Albany Institute ; Linnean Society ; Imperial Society of Mos- 

 cow ; L. H. Morgan. 



January I6fh. — Lieut. Gen. U. S. Grant, Jan, 15th, and Maj. Gen. George G. 

 Meade, Jan. iVth, acknowledging the receipt of diplomas of membership. 



January 23d. — Royal Society of Sciences, Upsala, Oct. 1st, 1865, acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the Journal and Proceedings, and accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library. 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Turin, Aug. 11th, 1863 ; 

 Royal Lombardy Institute of Sciences, Milan, Feb. 6th, 1863 ; 

 Natural History Society of the Osterlandes at Altenburg, Sept. 1st, 1865 ; 

 Imperial Royal Geological Society of Vienna, Sept. 22d, 1865; all acknow- 

 ledging receipt of the Proceedings. 



Bohemian Society of Sciences, Prague, May 28th, 1864 ; 

 Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Sept. 23d, 1865 ; 

 Senckenberg Natural History Society, Frankfort on the Prague, Aug. 10th, 

 1865; 

 Upper Hesse Society of Natural and Medical Sciences, Giessen, Aug. 25th, 1865 ; 

 Society of Geology and Associated Sciences, Jan. 27th, 1865 ; 

 Natural History Society of Mannheim, Sept. 6th, 1865; all accompanying 

 donations to the Library. 



January 30th. — R Wilson, Esq., in regard to a legacy left the Academy by 

 his brother. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



February 6th. — Prof. Durieu, Bordeaux, Aug. 18th, acknowledging election 

 as correspondent. 



Boston Society of Natural History, two letters dated respectively May 1st. 

 1864, and Aug. 23d, 1866, acknowledging the receipt of the Proceedings. 



Medico-Natural History. Society of Jena, accompanying donations to the li- 

 brary, May 6th, 1865. 



February \3th. — Charles J. Wister, Esq., accompanying donation of photo" 

 graph of Mr. I. Lukens. 



March 6th. — Royal Library of Munich ; 



Natural History Society of Preibourg ; 



Physico-Medical Society of Wurzburg ; 



Natural History Society of Brunn ; 



Isis of Dresden ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Fine Arts, Brussels ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Gallen, Switzerland ; 



Natural History Society of Augsburg;* 




CORRESPONDENCE. 



423 



Royal Meteorological Society of the Low Country, Utrecht ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam ; 



Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm ; all accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library, and acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



G. W. Clinton, Esq., BuflFalo, March 3d, acknowledging election as corres- 

 pondent. 



Imperial School of Mines, Paris, and 



Bavarian Academy of Sciences, desiring supply of deficiencies, 



March I3th. — President of the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society, in regard 

 to Penn Square. 



April 3d. — Smithsonian Institution, March 20th, acknowledging receipt o^ 

 Proceedings ; also from 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Lisbon, dated Dec. 26th, 1865, accompanying 

 donations to the Library. 



May 1st. — Utrecht Society of Arts and Sciences, Sept. 19th, 1865 ; 



Bureau of Geological Investigations in Sweden, Stockholm, Nov. 6th and 10th, 



1865 ; severally acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Imperial Leopold German Academy of Sciences, Dresden, Jan. 25th, 1866; 



Royal Society of Sciences of Leipsic, Sept. 30th, 1865, accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library. 



Society of Natural Sciences, Luxembourg, Oct. 30th, 1865 ; 



Zoological Society of Frankfort, Jan., 1866 ; 



Imperial Society of Sciences*, Gottingen, Jan. 31st, 1866 ; acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of Proceedings and accompanying donations to the Library. 



Royal Society of Edinburg, Nov. 1st, 1866, asking for a supply of deficiencies. 



Society of Natural Sciences of Basle, Feb. 1st, 1866, concerning deficiencies, 

 and accompanying donations to the Library. 



Mr. Winslow, of Munich, March 24th, 1866, in relation to ethnological casts. 



Isaac Lea, LL. D., and G. W. Tryon, Jr., Esq., with regard to specimens pre- 

 sented by them to the Academy. 



May \5lh. — A. W. Chapman, Apalachicola, April 28th, 1866; 



J. il. Baxter, Washington, May 1th, 1866 ; 



Herman Credner, New York, May 4th, 1866 : 



Jacob Stauffer, Lancaster, Pa., May Vth, 1866; acknowledging election as 

 corrrespondents. 



June 5th. — Robert Grey, Glasgow, May 12th, 1866, acknowledging receipt of 

 notice of his election as a correspondent. 



Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, Berlin, acknowledging receipt of Proceed- 

 ings, and announcing that their publications had been sent in return. 



July 3d. — American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass., June 11th, 1866 ; 



Senkenberg Natural History Society, Frankfort on the Main, March 15th, 1866 ; 



Natural History Society of Danzig, Sept. 29th, 1865 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing receipt of the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Berlin, Sept. 24th, 1865 ; 



Senkenberg Natural History Society, Frankfort on the Main, March 15th, 



1866 ; severally accompanying donations to the Library. 

 Joseph Blake, Esq., Gilmanton, N. H., Jan. 4th, 1866; 

 M. B. Anderson, Rochester, N, Y., June 10th, 1866 ; 



Samuel R. Carter, Paris Hill, Maine, June 4th, 1866 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing election as correspondents. 



Wm. H. Dall, San Francisco, June 10th, 1866, in reference to the operations 

 of the Behring's Straits' Expedition, Scientific Corps. 



Alfred Du Bois, Buckskin, Colorado, June 12th, 1866, acknowledging election 

 as correspondent, and asking for information as regards contributions. 



A. S. Christine, Principal of Carbon Academy, Lehighton, Pa., asking dona- 

 tions of objects of Natural History. 



Dr. B. A. Gould, asking information concerning certain instruments in making 

 physiological researches into the phj«ical history of man. 




424 CORRESPONDENCE. 



JuJjt \0(h. — Gcorpe A. Otis, Assist. Snrp. U. S. A., acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of notice of his election as correspondent. 



July 2Ath, — Helvetian Natural History Society of Berne, Dec, 18G5 ; 



Royal Asiatic Society, London, April, 18GG ; each acknowledging the receipt 

 of tlie Proceedings. 



Natural History Society of Prussian Rineland and Westphalia, Bonn, March 

 1st, 18GG, accompanying donations to the Library, and acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the Proceedings. 



Directory of the Society of Geology and Associated Sciences, Darmstadt, 

 Feb. 6th, 186G ; 



Mineralogical Society of Petersburg, Dec. 2.0th, 18G6; 



University of Lund, Sweden, Nov., 18G5; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, April 9th, 1866; severally accompa- 

 nying donations to the Library ; that from the University of Lund also asking 

 for exchanges. 



Geological Society of India. Calcutta, Dec. 14th, 1865, asking exchanges, and 

 accompanying donation to the Library. 



Natural History Society of Berne, 1866; accompanying donations to the 

 Library. 



Royal Gymnasium and High School, Polten, in Lower Austria, April 26th, 

 1866, asking supply of deficiencies in their publications of the Academy. 



Felix Fliigel, Leipsic, 1866, in regard to duplicates of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy. 



Zoological and Mineralogical Society of Regensburg, asking supply of de- 

 ficiencies in their publications of the Academy. 



Angust \Ath. — A. Ramond de Corbineau, July 2d, 1866 ; and 

 Marquis de Caligny, Cherbourg, France, 1866; each acknowledging election 

 as correspondent. 

 M. McDonald, Professor of Geology in Military Institute of Virginia. 



September llth. — British Museum, July 30th, 1866, acknowledging receipt of 

 Nos. 1 — 5 Proceedings, 1865. 



Dr. L. M. Pendleton, Belfast, Maine, Aug. 13th, 1866, giving information of 

 the sale of the skin and skeleton of an elephant. 



Dr. Jos. Szabo, Pest, Hungary, July 31st, 1866, announcing donation on 

 part of the Society of Pest of a fragment of a meteorite which fell in the north 

 east of Hungary June 9th, 1866. 



Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel, Switzerland, Nov. 23d, 1865, 

 acknowledging receipt of Proceedings, Nos. 1 — 7, 1863, 1 — 5, 1864, and Jour- 

 nal, vol. V. pt. iv. 



American Antiquarian Society of Worcester, Mass., Aug. 23d, 1866, acknow- 

 ledging receipt of Proceedings. 



October 2d. — Natural History Society of Basle, Sept. 15th, 1866; 



Batavian Society of Sciences, Rotterdam, Oct. 21st, 1865 ; 



Royal Library of Dresden, Dec. llth, 1865 ; 



Royal Imperial Zoological Botanical Society of Vienna, Jan., 1868 ; 



German Geological Society, Berlin, Nov. 4th, 1865; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Leipzig, Nov. 20th, 1865 ; 



Linnean Society, London, July 28th, 1866; 



Royal Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipzig, Nov. 30, 1865 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Weisbaden, Oct. 10th, 1865 ; 



Society of the Friends of Natural History, Mecklenberg, Oct., 1864; severally 

 acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Boston Society of Natural History, Sept. lYth, 1866 ; 



Geological Survey of India, May llth, 1865 ; 



Linnean Society of Bordeaux, June 8th, 1866 ; severally accompanying do- 

 nations to the Library. 



Provincial Secretary's Office, Ottawa, ^ug. 31st, 1866, accompanying dona- 




CORRESPONDENCE. 425 



tions on the part of the Government of Canada of the Atlas, &c., of the Geolo- 

 logical Survey. 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, June 30th, 1866, in reply to letter in 

 relation to deficiencies. 



Geographical Society of Dresden, May 16th, 1866, accompanying donations 

 to the Library, and asking exchange. 



Upper Hessian Society of Natural and Medical Sciences, acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of Proceedings, and directing mode of transmission. 



October 9th. — Prof. Alfred Newton, of Magdalen College, England, acknow- 

 ledging election as correspondent. 



October 16CA— Frank Cowan, Esq., Greensburg, Pa., Oct. 11th, 1866, acknow- 

 ledging election as correspondent. 



October 23d. — Gabriel E. Manegault, acknowledging election as correspondent. 



November 20fh. — Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Berlin, March 15, 1866; 



J. H. Baxter, War Department, Washington, Nov. 15th, 1866; severally- 

 accompanying donations to the Library. 



American Antiquarian Society, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Smithsonian Institution, acknowleging receipt of Proceedings. 



Imperial Mineralogical Society of St. Petersburg, Oct. 24th, 1866, inviting all 

 friends of science to their 50th anniversary. 



Society of the Friends of Natural History, Berlin, Feb. 12th^ 1866, acknow- 

 ledging receipt of publications of the Academy. 



Zoologico-Mineralogical Society at Regensburg, accompanying donations to 

 Library. 



December 4th. — Mrs. M. A. Bush, of Cohoes, N. Y., accompanying her dona- 

 tions of Algse. 



December ISth. — Edinburgh Geological Society, accompanying donations to 

 Library and asking exchange. 



Society for tbe Advancement of the Natural Sciences, Marburg, accompany- 

 ing donations to Library, and acknowledging receipt of the Proceedings. 



Royal Meteorological Institute, Utrecht, accompanying donations to Library. 



Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester ; 



Catholic University of Louvain ; severally accompanying donations to Li- 

 brary and asking supply of deficiencies. 



Royal Public Library of Dresden ; 



Natural History Society of Basle ; 



Geological Society of Darmstadt ; 



Royal Society of Amsterdam; severally acknowledging receipt of Proceed- 

 ings. 



# 




DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM 

 1866. 



Abbot, C. C. Oct. IQth. Tooth of Carcharodon and Lamna. Trenton Falls, 

 N, J. 



Allen, W. A. Dec. llih. Vertebra of a Crocodile and bones of a Turtle. 



American Philosophical Society. June 5th. Skeleton of the Rattlesnake. 



Ashhurst, Francis. Oct. I6th. Fossil vertebra of a Shark and tooth of a Croco- 

 dile, from the Green Sand of Pemberton, N. J. Nov. ]3th. Four verte- 

 brae of a Crocodile, from the Green Sand of Pemberton, N. J. 



Beadle, Rev. E. R. Nov. 20th. Twenty-two species of Shells. Dec. llth. Re- 

 trorsa, Gould and Cyclophorus pernobilis, Gould, from Tavoy, Burmah. 



Bell, John G. Jan. 2d. Cultrides rufipennis, G. R. Gray, from South America. 



Biddle, Owen. April 10th. Fossil Wood. 



Bland, Jas. H. B. March 6th. Eighty-one specimens, 54 species of Coleoptera, 

 mostly new to the Museum. June 5th. 126 specimens, 76 species, Coleop- 

 tera, from the vicinity of Philadelphia. 



Borden, E. P. Dec. llth. Specimen of Buteo lineatus, the red-shouldered 

 Hawk, Delaware County, Pa. 



Brainerd, Mary. Oct. 9th. Mounted specimen of the Northern Lynx, from Jef- 

 ferson Co., N. Y. 



Bridges, Sallie. May Sth. An Echinus, Loligo and 3 Reptiles, Santa Cruz. 



Bridges, Dr. Robert. Aug. 2lst. Two Phonipara canora, male and female, 

 from Cuba. 



Burke, Isaac and Jesse T. Mat/ 1st. Bryttus chaetodon. 



Bush, Mrs. M. A., of Cohoes, Albany Co. Dec. Ath. 95 specimens of marine 

 Algae. 



Butcher, Dr. H. B. Jan. 23d. A collection of Birds, consisting of 31 species, 

 53 specimens, from Virginia and the District of Columbia, and a collec- 

 tion of Insects, abo|it 35 species, 41 specimens, from the same location. 



Camac, Dr. Wm. April lOth. A mounted specimen of Geomys bursarius, 

 Wisconsin. 



Campbell, Chas. B. Nov. 20. Very fine Albino Rat from Philadelphia, 



Cassin, William L. Dec. llth. A collection of Fossils and a collection of 

 Quartz Crystals, from the Delaware Water Gap, Monroe Co., Pa. 



Cavada, J. F. June 5th. Ortyx Cubanensis, male and female, from Cuba. 



Chapman, A. W., M. D. Auff. *lth. A large collection of Plants, from Florida. 



Cleborne, Dr. C. J. Dec. lUh. 140 species of Shells, from various localities, 

 among which are fine specimens of rare and valuable species. Seven 

 specimens of Radiata. Two specimens of Tarantula, from Martinique, 

 West Indies. 



Clew, J. H. May 29th. Two large masses of Rock Sak, from the Island of 

 Petite Anse, Louisiana, .lulp lOth. A small collection of fossil bones of 

 an Elephant, from Island Petite Anse, La. Oct. I6th. Fragments of Ele- 

 phant bones, from the Salt Mines of Petite Anse, La. 



Collier, D. C. Jan. 9th. Collection of Fossils, from Smoky Hill River, Col- 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 427 



orado Territory. Aug. Wth. Specimens of Chalk, from bluffs, Y5 feet high, 

 on Smoky Hill River, eastern boundary of Colorado Territory. 



Conner, Col. Jas. J. June 6th. Large mass of white ash anthracite Coal, with 

 distinct impressions of Sigillaria, from Schuylkill Co., Pa. 



Conrad, T. A. Nov. I3th. Ten species of Shells (types). Nov. 20th. One 

 species of Shell. 



Cope, E. D. Jan. 23d. Fossil Teredo and Nautilus, from Glassboro, N. J. 

 lune 12th. Silicified Wood, Glassboro, N. J. Bee. llth. Twenty speci- 

 mens of Birds, from Jalapa, Mexico. 



Coues, Elliot, M. D. June 5th. -^gialitis nivosus, Dendroica Graceae, from 

 Arizona. 



Da Costa, J. Oct. 2d. Four teeth of Carcharodon and Otodus, from near Fort 

 Laramie. 



Deal, Dr. Lemuel J. April 3d. 18 specimens, 8 species, of Serpents from Lou- 

 isiana. 



Diffenbaugh, E. May 1st.. Bryttus chaetodon, Bristol, Pa. Oct. IGth. 83 

 species of rare Plants, from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



Eshleman, John B. Dec. llth. Suite of Shells, 30 species, from Lancaster Co., 

 Penna. 



Gabb, W. M. March 6th. Three Corals, from California. June 12th. Large 

 Egg, from California, and Sponge, from Japan. July 10th. Specimens of 

 Virgularia elongata. 



Gaussoin, Eugene, through Dr. Hayden. May 1st. Three fossil Corals and a 

 Shell, from Navassa, W. I. June 19th. A collection of Oolitic Phosphates 

 of Lime, Coral Limestone, Stalactite, and fragments of Indian Pottery, 

 from the Island of Navassa, W. I. 



Godshall, Mr. July 10th. A mass of^uartzose brecia, Valley Forge, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Grasses. Jan. 2d. A collection of 62 species of Grasses, from California. Pur- 

 chased. 



Green, Col. James. 3Iay 1st. Fossil Fish Scales, from the loess of the Missis- 

 sippi, in the vicinity of Vicksburg. June 5th. Six species of Helix and one 

 of Succinea, from the loess near Vicksburg, Miss. Also a recent and new 

 species of Succinea, from the same vicinity. A collection of bones and 

 scales of a Fish, from the loess near Vicksburg, Miss. A small collection 

 of Devonian and carboniferous Fossils, from near Pittsburg, Pa. 



Hamlin, Dr. A. C. April 10th. Specimens of Itacolumite and Auriferous 

 Quartz, from Georgia. May 22d. Sulphuret of Antimony. Carmel, Maine. 

 June 5th. Some fossil Bones and Shells from a railroad cutting. Maine. 



Hardie, Robt. J. Sept. Ath. Horned Frog, from Texas. 



Haseltine, Ward B. Feb. 13th. Fossil Wood, frAm Schuylkill Co., Pa. 



Hayden, Dr. Nov. 6th. Specimens of Pipestone and other Minerals, from Da- 

 kota Territory. 



Hayes, I. I. Feb. 13th. Fine large crystalline block of Cryolite ; smaller spe- 

 cimens of do.; 2 Cryolite with chalybite, galena and sulphuret of iron ; 

 Crystallized Quartz, Granite, Fluorspar, Feldspar, and Epidote,from Ivigtut, 

 Greenland. 



Hendry,. Willi am A., of Halifax. March 6th. 12 specimens of Coal Plants, from 

 Glace Bay, &c., Nova Scotia. 



Henszey, W. 0. June 5th. Diodon, from Atlantic City. 



Horn, George H. June 12th. Fragments of jaws and teeth of a fossil Horse, 

 from Buena Vista Lake, Cal. July 10th. Enstrongylus gigas, from the 

 Coyote. 



Jefferis, Wm. W. Jan. 23d. A large cleavage crystal of black Biotite, pene- 

 trated by a crystal of Apatite. Rossie, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. 



Jeanes, Jos. Jan. 2d. 4 Muscipeta Du Chailluii, 2 Chloropicus brachyrhyn- 

 chus, Chloropicus, nivosus, Bradyornis, sp. 1, Nectarinia, sp., from Mr. 

 Du Chaillu's collections in Western Africa. June 5th. Fossil Shells. 

 Scranton, Luzerne Co. 




498 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Jones, W. C. M. and J. W. Watson, Jan. 23rf, Three .specimens of Argentife- 

 rous GaliMia, from Raker Lode, Arj^entine Diat.., Colorado. 



Julius, Capt. T. J)ec. llth. Fine specimen of Somateria spoctabilis, the King 

 Duck, from Newfoundland. 



Lea, Isaac. Jan. 23d. Emerylite in large cleavage crystals, &c. Unionville, 

 Chester Co. Feb. \3fh. Double terminated crystal of Quartz, 14 inches 

 long, from Jefferson Co., N. Y. Feb. 20th. Fine large crystal of Phlogo- 

 pite, from near Rossie, N. Y. This crystal is a hexagonal prism, 

 with oblique cleavage, weighing 23 pounds. Mai/ 1st. Large specimen oif 

 Phlogopite, Rossie, N. Y. Mai/ Blh. Large specimen of Crysotile. Blue 

 Hill, Delaware Co., Pa. Eight species of fluviatile Shells. Mai/ 22d. Ga- 

 lena. Ivigtut, Greenland. 14 Minerals, from Del. and Chester Co., Pa., 

 and N. Y. Mai/ 22d. Galena. Ivigtut, Greenland. Nov. 13th. Five 

 species of Unio. Nov. I3th. Feldspar, from near Wilmington, Del. 



Le Conte, J. L., Dr. May 1st. Three bottles U. S. Coleoptera, 2 from Honduras ; 1 

 Apus longicaudatus, from Kansas; and a large Entomostracan, from Ohio. 

 Also a bottle of Arseniate of Potassa. 



Lee, Peter, Benj. Oman and Daniel Austin, through Mr. Powel. Jan. 23d. A 

 collection of 15 specimens, 6 species, of Fishes, several marine Worms, 

 Crustacea and Mollusks, from Newport, R. I. 



Leidy, Dr. Jos. Jan. 2d. Skull of a Manatus. April lOfh. Crystallized Epi- 

 dote, from the vicinity of Germantown. Dec. llth. Ten species of Birds, 

 from Jalapa, Mexico. 



Lewis, Geo. T. April llth. Large specimen of Pachnolite. Ivigtut, Green- 

 land. 



McConnell, Wm. July lOth. A large Spider. 



Meehan, Thos., Mr. Sept. llth. SpecHnens of Pinus pungens. 



Meigs, J. F., Dr. Sept. I8th. Specimens of the Jumping Mouse, Jaculus hudso- 

 nius. 



Michener, Dr. E. Nov. 20th. One species of Shell. 



Norcura, W. A. B. Sept. llth. Specimens of Orotophaga ani, shot at Edenton, 

 N. Carolina. 



Parker, C. F. Dec. llth. Conus capitanus, Linn. A variety new to the Aca- 

 demy collection. 



Parrish, R. A., Jr. July lOth. Luna Moths. 



Paz, Signor Patricio. Feb. 20th. Collection of Mollusca, in alcohol, from 

 South America. 



Plants. Jan. 23d. A collection of 50 species of high Alpine Plants, from the 

 Rocky Mountains. Purchased. 



Poey, Dr. Felipe, Cuba. June I2th. Fossil vertebra of a Crocodile and costal 

 plate of a Turtle, from Cuba. 



Propper, Geo. A., through Dr. Hayden, who retains the right of borrowing the 

 specimens. Nov. 6th. A collection of fossil Fishes, from the cretaceous 

 formation, No. 3, of Yankton, Dakota. 

 " Through Prof. Hayden. Nov. I3th. A collection of Insects from Daco- 

 ta Territory, consisting of 61 specimens of Coleoptera, 4 Orthoptera and 3 

 Homoptera. Yankton, Dae. Tier. 



Putnam, Col A. W. Jan. 9th. 50 species of rare Plants, from the Rocky 

 Mountains. Purchased. 



Rand, Theo. D. Nov. 6th. Ten specimens of Minerals. 



Reakirt, Tryon. May 8th. Seven specimens of Lepidoptera. 



Root, M. A. March 20th. Specimen of Mecca Oil Rock, from Mecca, Trumbull 

 Co., Ohio. 



Ruschenberger, Dr. May 1st. Specimens of Essonite, Ceylon. Nov. 20th. 

 One species of Shell. 



Slack, Dr. and Mr. Hoopes. Oct. I6th. A jar of Fishes and Reptiles, two Mam- 

 mals and a small collection of Shells, from Lake Superior. 



filawsin, John. March 20ih. Mass of fossil Shells, from the Rocky Mountains, 

 in Colorado. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 429 



Smith, T. Guilford. April 11th. Large specimen of Bitter Spar, Chester, 

 Mass. 



Smithsonian Institution. June 19th. A collection of Plants, from the western 

 Coast of South America and the South Pacific Islands, being a portion of 

 the botanical collection of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition. June 19th. 

 A collection of 148 specimens of Birds, representing 73 species of western 

 North America and the West Indies. Dec. 11th. Seven specimens of Birds 

 from the West Indies and South America. Auff. 21st. Six specimens of 

 Birds from Costa Rica and 4 specimens from Jamaica. A large collection 

 of Shells, embracing over 1300 species, of which 793 species are new to 

 the Museum ; an extraordinary increase, due in a great measure to many 

 of them being species from the Wilkes Exploring Expedition not previ- 

 ously distributed, while others are new species from Western America, re- 

 cently described by Mr. P. P. Carpenter, Smithsonian Institution. 



Spillman, Dr. W., of Columbus, Mississippi. March 20th. Fossil phalanx of a 

 large Reptile and 2 segments of a fossil Nautilus. Maj/ 1st. Two Coal 

 fossils. Western Alabama. 



Stephens, Wm. H. July 2Mh. A large specimen of black Oxyde of Copper, 

 from Lake Superior. 



Struthers, W. July 10th. Two Coal fossils, from Dorchester, New Brunswick. 



Subscribers to the Library Fund. Oct. 9th. Musci Boreali Americana quorum 

 specimina exsiccata W. S. Sullivant et L. Lesquereux ediderunt. Ed. 2d, 

 1865. 



Thompson, John H. Nov. 20th. Nine species of Shells. 



Thompson, John, of New Bedford, Mass. May 1st. A marine Alga, from Cape 

 Horn. 



Trautwine, J. C. April 10th. Pachnolite, from Greenland. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. May 1st. 20 species land and fresh water Shells. On 

 condition not to be loaned. May 8th. Fine species of Indian MoUusca. 

 May 22d. Ten species of Shells from Cambodia. Nov. 13th. 18 species 

 of Unionidae. Nov. 20th. Seven species of Shells. Dec. 11th. 24 species 

 of terrestrial Mollusca. New to the Academy's collection. 



Unknown donor, through Mr. Tryon. Jan. 23d. Three species of Crusta- 

 ceans, a Star Fish, and a small collection of Shells. 



Vaux, William S. Dec. 11th. 20 specimens of Birds, from Jalapa, Mexico. 



Vogel, Charles. Nov. 20th. A brook Trout, caught in the Schuylkill River. 



Watson, Mrs. J. Fraraton. Nov. 13th. Manganite, Ihlfeldt, Hartz, Marcasite 

 and a fine Mocha Stone. 



Westcott, Charles S. June 19th. Very fine mounted specimens of Aix sponsa, 

 the Summer Duck, and Ortyx Virginianus, the American Partridge ; also a 

 Silurian fossil. Dec. 11th. Fine specimen of Icterus Jamacaii, 



Wheatley, C. M. May 1st. A collection of small Crustaceae, &c., from Cape 

 St. Lucas. 



Wood, Christopher J. Aug. lith. One Mus decumanus (pied variety), 1 Ar- 

 vicola and 19 specimens of Birds of Philadelphia, in young plumage. 

 Nov. 13th. Two Amazilia RieflFerii '^ 9 , 1 Cyanomyia Cyanocephala, from 

 Belize, Honduras, and six specimens of young Birds, from vicinity of Phi- 

 ladelphia. 



Woodward, G. M. April 11th. A living Iguanian. Navassa, West Indies. 



Womrath, F. K. Mantis, from vicinity of Baltimore. 




DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1866. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Lund. Acta Universitatis Lundensis, 1864. Philosophie Sprakvetenskap, 



och historia und Mathematik och Naturvetenskap. 1864-65. From the 



University. 

 Stockholm. Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar. Ny 



Foljd, Femte Bandet, Forste Haftet. From the Society. 

 Ofversigt af kongl, Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar. Argangen 



1 — 4 and 21 Argangen. From the Society. 

 Upsal. Nova Acta Regiae Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis. Seriei Tertiae, 



Vol. v., Fasc. 2, 1865. From the Society. 



DENMARK. 



Kjobenhavn. Oversigt over det Kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskabs^ 

 Forhandlinger Aaret 1865, Nos. 1 — 3; 1866, No. 1. From ^he Society.* 



Videnskabelige Medelelser fra den Naturhistoriske Forening i Kjobenhavn 

 for Aarat. 1865. From the Society. 



Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift. 4de Binds, 3bie — 6to Haefte. Ny Raekke iBte 

 Binds, Iste — Sbie Haefte. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



NORWAY. 



(Jhristianiae. Det Kongelige Norske Fredericks Universitets, Aarsberetning for 

 Aaret 1863. From the University. 



RUSSIA. 



Moscow. Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscow. Annce 



1865, Nos. 2 to 4; Annee 1866, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Memoirs de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Tome 5, No. 1, to Tome 



10, No. 2. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Tome 5, No. 2, Tome 1, 



No. 3, to Tome 9. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen der Kon. Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammte Mineralogie ku 



St. Petersburg. Jahrg., 1863. From the Society. 

 Nova Acta Academia Scientiarum Imperialis Petropolitanae. Vols. 1 — 6 



and Vol. 11. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Am3terdam. Jaarbock van de Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen. 

 1863 and 1864. From the Society. 

 Bijdragen tot de Dierkunde uitgegeven door het Genootschap Natura Ar- 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 431 



tis Magistra. 1851, Tweede and Derde Afl ; 1852, 4de and 5de Afl. 



Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Verhandelingen van de k. Academie van Wetenschappen. Tiende Deel. 



Amsterdam. 1864. From the Society. 

 Verslagen en Mededeelingen de Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen, 



1863 & 1864, 8te deel 1865. Amsterdam. From the Society. 

 Arnheim. Nederlandsch Tigdschrift voor Jagtkunde. Iste Jahrg. 3de to 



12mo, Afl. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



GERMANY. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande, Gemeinschaftlich herausgege- 



ben vom Gewerbe-Vereine, von der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu 



Altenburg. Banden Ter to ISer and l7er Band, les and 2es Heft. From 



the Society. 



Augsburg. Achtzehnter Bericht des Natur-historischen Vereins. From the 



Society. 

 Berlin. Physikalische Abhandlungen der k. Akademie der Wissensehaften zu 

 Berlin. Aus dem Jahre., 1864. From the Akademie. 

 Linnaea Entomologica. Her & 12er Banden. Presented by Edw. Wilson, 



Esq. 

 Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte Jahrgangen, ler — 29er complete. SOer 

 Jahrg., les Heftes, Berlin 1835 — 1864. Presented by Rathmell Wilson, 

 Esq. 

 Same. SOer Jahrg,, 5es & 6es Heft. From the Editors. 

 Berliner Entomologischer Zeitschrift, herausgegeben von dem Entomolo- 

 gischen Vereine in Berlin. Neunter Jahrg. Vierteljahrsheft. 9er Jahrg., 

 2es — 4es Vierteljahrsheft. lOer Jahrg. From the Society. 

 Wochenschirft des Vereines fiir Gartnerei und Pflanzenkunde. 8 Jahrg., 



Nos. 31 to 52. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften herausgegeben von 

 dem Naturw.-Vereine fiir Sachsen und Thiiringen in Halle, Jahrgangen, 

 1864 and 1865. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. 17 Band, 2es Heft, 



to 18 Band, les Heft. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin 



aus den Jahren, 1860 bis 1862. 1865. From the Society. 

 Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie der Wissensehaften zu Berlin. Jan., 

 1866, to June, 1866. From the Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des Naturhistorischen Vereines der Preussischen Rhein- 

 lande und Westphalens. Jahrgangen Ter, Her and 22er, 1850, 1854 

 and 1865. From the Society. 

 Brunn. Verhandlungen des Naturforschenden Vereines in Brunn. H. and 



in. Banden. From the Society. 

 Bremen. Erster Jahresbericht des Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereines zu Bre- 

 men. From the Society. 

 IX. Jahres-Bericht des Instituts fiir Schwedische Heil Gymnastik in Bre- 

 men von Dr. Axel Sigfrid Ulrich. From the Editor, 

 Oassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. Herausgegeben von Dr. Louis Pfeiflfer. 

 lOer Band, pp. 177 to end; 12er Band and 13er Band, pp. 1 — 32, From 

 the Library Fund. 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie. Herausgegeben von Dr. Jean Cabanis und Dr. 

 Ed. Baldamus. 13 Jahgr., Heft 1, to 14 Jahgr., Heft IL From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 Danzig. Neueste Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Danzig. 5en 



Bandes, les Heft. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereines fiir Erdkunde. III. Folge, IV. Heft. From 



the Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungs-Berichte der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis zvl 

 Dresden. 1861—1864. From the Society. 




482 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Kovonim Actorum Academiaj Cacsarcre Leopoldino-Carolinae Germanicae 



NatnriC Curiosorum. Tome 24. From the Society. 

 Erster Jahresbericht des Vereins fiir Erdkunde zu Dresden. From the 

 Society. 

 Diisseldorff. Der Gesellschaft Naturforschcnder Freiindc Westphalens. Neue 



Schriftcn. Erster Band. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Frankfurt-am-main. Der Zoologische Garten. Nos. 7 to 12, 1865. From the 

 Editor. 

 Same. 1, 2 and 3 Jahrg. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Jahresbericht uebcr die Verhaltung des Medicinalwesens die Krankenan- 

 Btalten. Herausgegeben von dem Aerztlicken Verein. VI. Jahrg., 1862. 

 From the Society. 

 Freiburg im Br. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesell- 

 schaft zu Freiburg. Band III., Heftes III. and IV. From the Society. 

 Giessen. Amtlicher Bericht iibcr die neun und dreissigste Versammlung 

 Deutscher Naturforscher und Arzte in Giessen. From the Convention. 

 Elfter Bericht der Oberhessischen Gessellschaft fiir Natur und Heilkunde. 

 From the Society. 

 Gotha. Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes Geographischer Anstalt iiber wich- 

 tige neue Erforschungen auf dem Gesammtgerrete der Geographic von 

 Dr. A Petermann. 1866, IV— VIII. From the Library Fund. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und der 



Georg.-Augusts Universitat aus dem Jahre, 1865. From the Society. 

 Graz. Zweiter Jahresbericht des Vereines der Aerzte in Steiermark. From 



the Society. 

 Halberstadt. Museum Heineanum von Dr. Jean Cabanis. 1 Theil, 1850-51. 



Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Konigsberg. Schriften der K. Physikalisch Ekonomischen Gesellschaft zu 



Konigsberg. 5es Jahgrang, les and 2es Abth. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der K. Sachsischen Gesellschaft 

 der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig, Mathematisch Physische Classe 1864. 

 From the Society. 

 Des VII. Bandes der Abhandlungen der Mathematisch Physischen Classe 

 der K. Sachsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. From the Society. 

 Jenaische Zeitschrifte fiir Medicin und Naturwissenschaft herausgegeben 

 von der Medicinisch-Naturw. Gesellschaft zu Jena. 2er Band, les — 4^ 

 Heftes. From the Society. 

 Archiv fiir Anatomic Physiologic und Wissenschaftliche Medecin. Heraus- 

 gegeben von Drs. Reichert und Bois Reymond. From 1863, No. 1, to 

 1866, No. 3. From the Library Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie. Herausg. von Carl S. V. Siebold 



und Albert Kolliker. 16er Band, 2es Heft. From the Library Fund. 

 The same. Banden I. — XL From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Jahrbucher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik. 4er Band, 3es Heft. From the 

 Executors of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 

 Mannheim. Achtzehnter to 26er and 3Ier Jahresberichtes des Mannheimer 



Vereines fiir Naturkunde. From the Society. 

 Miinchen. Annalen der Koniglichen Sternwarte bei Miinchen. XIV. Band. 

 From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der Philosophischen Classe der K. B. Akademie der Wis- 

 senschaften. lOen Bandes, 2es Abth. Historischen Classe. lOen 

 Bandes, 1 and 2 Abth. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte of the same, 1865. No. 3 of Second part wanting. From 

 the Society. 

 Nassau, Sechster Jahres-Bericht des Natur-historischen Vereins in Nassau. 



From the Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 

 Meklenburg. 19 Jahrgang. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 433 



Regensburg. Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologisch-Mineralogischen Vereines in 



Regensburg. 19er Jahrgang. From the Society- 

 St. Polten. Erstes und zweites Programm der No Landes-Ober Realschule in 



St. Polten. From the Society. 

 Jahresbericht des Turnvereins in St. Polten fUr das Zweite Vereinesjahr. 



From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Correspondenzblatt des K. Wurttembergischen Landwirthschaft- 



lichen Vereins. Neue Folge. Band 18, Jaghr., 1840. les Heft. Pre- 

 sented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palaeontologie. Jahrg., 



1865, 4es Heft, to Jahgr., 1866, 3es Heft. From the Editors. 

 Wien. Verhandlungen der K. K. Zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 



Jahrg., 1865, 15 Band. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Math. Naturw. 



Classe. L. Band, 11. Heft, to LII. Band, V. Heft. From the Society. 

 Register zu den Banden 13 bis 50 der Sitzungsberichte der Math.-Naturw. 



Classe V. Wien, 1865. From the Society. 

 Denkschrift der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Mathem.-Naturwissen- 



schaftliche Classe. 24er Band. From the Society. 

 Jahrbuch der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. 1865. No." 3, to 1866, 



No. 2. From the Society. 

 Mittheilungen der K. K. Geographischen Gesellschaft. Jahrgagen I — VII. 



Jahrg. VIII., Heft, I. From the Society. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrbiicher des Vereins fiir Naturkunde im Herzogthum Nassau. 



lies and 18es Heft. 

 Wiirzburg. Wiirzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben 



von der Physikalisch-Medicin. Gesellschaft. Sechste Band, le Heft, 



and le and 2e Banden. From the Society. 

 Canstatts Jahresbericht iiber die Leistungen in den Physiologischen Wis- 

 senschaften in alien Landern im Jahre 1864. From the Executors of 



the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 

 Sitzungs-Berichte der Physicalish-Medicinischen Gesellschaft fiir das Jahre 



1860. From the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 

 Basel. Verhandlungen derNaturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. 4er Theil,. 



2es Heft, From the Society. 

 Bern. Mittheilungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Bern aus dem 



Jahre 1865. From the Society. 

 Geneva. Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse Archives des Sciences 



Physiques et Naturelles. Nouvelle P^riode. Tome 24me, No. 95, to 



Tome 26me, No. 104. From the Editor. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Ornithologique Suisse. Tome ler, ler Partie. 



From the Society. 

 Memoirs de la Soci^t^ de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneva. 



Tome 18, Ire Partie. From the Society. 

 Actes de la Soc. Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles. 49me Session.. 



Compte Rendu, 1865. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. B^letin de la Society Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 8, 



Bulletin No. 53 and 54. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Society des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. 



Tome 7, ler cafcier. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thatigkeit der St. Gallischen Naturwissen- 



schaftlichen Gesellschaft wiihrend des Vereinigsjahres 1863-64. From 



the Society. 



FRANCE. 

 Bordeaux. Actes de L'Academie imperiale des Sciences, belles-lettres et arts 



de Bordeaux. 3e Serie, 27e Ann^e, ler to 3me Trimestre. From the 



Society. 




484 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Actos (Ic la Socidto Linn<5enno dc Bordeaux. Tome 25, 3me Seric. Tome 



5, IV., V. and VI. Livrs. From the Society. 

 Boulogne. Procds Verbal de la Stances Publique de la Soci6tu d' Agricul- 

 ture, etc., de Boulogne sur Mer. Ann<ie 1823. Presented by Kdw. 



Wilson, Esq. 

 Cherbourg. Mdnioirs de la Soci^t6 Imperiale des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 



XI. From the Society. 

 Paris. Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Cinquieme Serie, Zoology. Tome 



IV., No. 3 ; Botanique, Tome III., No. 6, to Zoologie, Tome VI., No. 



2 ; Botanique, Tome V., No. 2. From the Library Fund. 

 Annales des Mines. Sixieme Serie. 3e Livr. de 1865 to 6me Livr. de 



1866. From the Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Bulletin mensuel de la Society Imperiale Zoologique D'Acclimatation. 



2me Series. Tomes II. and III. From the Library Fund. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. Public sous la direction de MM. Crosse et 



Fischer. 3e Serie. Tome 5, No. 4, and Tome 6. Nos. 1 and 2. From 



the Editors. 

 Same. Tome ler to 3me Series, Tome II. Ten Volumes. 

 Journal de la Physiologic de I'Homme et des Animaux. No. 24. Oct. 



1863, and Tome 6me. From the Library Fund. 

 Archives du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle. Tome 8. Livr. 3. Tomes 9 



and 10. From the Library Fund. 

 Comptes Rendus hebdomadaires des Stances de L'Academie des Sciences. 



Tome 60, Nos. 13 to 18 and 25 and 26; Tome 61, Nos. 1—24. Tables 



of Vol. 59. From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 

 Same. Tome 49 to No. 12 of Tome 60, and ten numbers of Tome 61. 



From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Revue des Cours Scientifiques de la France et de I'Etranger. 2me Annee. 



Paris, 1864—1865. From the Library Fund. 

 M^moires de L'Academie Royale des Sciences de L'Institute de France. 



4to Tomes 1 to 34 inc. Annies 1816 to 1864. Paris, 1818—1864. 



Tome 29 wanting. Presented by Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Bulletin de la Society Ethnologique. Annee 1847. Presented by Edw. 



Wilson. 

 Comptes Rendus des Stances et Memoirs de la Soci^t^ de Biologic. Tome 



ler de la 4me Serie. From the Society. 

 Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliqu^e. Recueil mensuel par 



M. F. E. Guerin Meneville. From 1865, No. XV., to 1866, No. 10. From 



the Editor. 



BELGIUM. 

 Bruxelles. Annuaire de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des 



Beaux Artes 1865. 31me Ann^e. From the Academy. 

 M^moires Couronnes et Autres Memoires published by the same. Col- 

 lection in 8vo, Tome lYme. 4to Tome 32. From the Academy. 

 Bulletin of the same. Tomes 18 and 19. 3-3me et 34me Annees. 2me 



Serie. From the Academy. 

 Liege. Memoires de la Soci^te Royale des Sciences de Liege. Tomes 19 and 



20. From the Society. • 



Lourain. Annuaire de I'Universite Catholique de Louvain. 1846 — 1848, 



1852—1854, 1865, and 1866. From the Society. 



ITALY. 

 Bologna. Rendiconto delle Sessioni dell' Academia delle Scienze delle Isti- 

 tut' di Bologna. Anno Accademico, 1864 — 1865. From the Academy. 

 Memoires of the same. Series II. Tome IV. Fasc. 2, 3, 4. Tome V. 

 Fasc. 1 and 2. From the Academy. 

 Torino. Memorie della Reale Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Serie Se- 

 conda. Tomo 21. From the Society. 

 Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Vol. I. Disp. 1 and 2, 

 From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 435 



PORTUGAL. 



Lisbon. Memorias da Acaderaia. Real das Sciencies de Lisboa. Sciencias. 

 Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes. Nova Serie. Tome III. Pt. II. 

 From the Academy. 

 Historia i Memorias da Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa, Classe de 

 Sciencies moraes politicas e Bellas-Lettras. Nova Serie. Tome III, 

 Pt. IL From the Academy. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. The Journal of the Royal Dublin Society, No. 34. Dec. 1865. Also 

 Parts 1 to lY. From the Society. 

 Journal of of the Royal Geologial Society of Ireland. Vol. 1, parts 1 and 



2. From the Society. 



Transactions of the Royal Agricultural Improvement Society of Ireland. 



1843, Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq, 

 Report of the Royal Zoological Society of Ireland. 1847. Presented by 



Edw. Wils'Ott, Esq. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society. Vols. 85 and 86. Presented by 



Edw. Wil-son, Esq. 

 Transactions of the Dublin University Philosophical Society, Dublin. Vol. 



3. 1848. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



The Dublin Philosophical Journal. No. 6, Nov., 1826. Presented by 



Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol, 8 and Vol. 9, pt. 1. 



From the Society. 

 The Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, Vol. 24. Science, part 5, 

 Polite Literature, part III. Antiquities, parts 5, 6 and 7. From the 

 Society, 

 Durham. Report of the Natural History Society of Northumberland and Dur- 

 ham, 1832. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 J,. Edinburgh. Transactions of the Botanical Society. Vol. 8, pt. I. From the 



Society. 

 Annual Reports and Proceedings of the Botanical Society of Edinburgh. 

 ] 1838—41. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



i Proceedings of the Royal Society. Sessions 1862 — 1865 — 1866. Presen- 



ted by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Transactions of the Royal Society. Vol, 22, pt. 1. From the Society. 

 * Leeds. Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society 



I of the West Riding o/ Yorkshire. 1852 — 1854, 1865. From the Society. 



■ Philosophical and Literary Society, The Annual Report. 1864 — 1865. 



From the Society. 

 Catalogue of the Library of the Philosophical and Literary Society, 1865, 

 From the Society, 

 London. Notes and Queries. Parts 43 to 55. From the Editor. 



The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 

 Vol. 17, pt. I, to New Series Vol. IL, part 1, From the Society, 

 ». Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Vol. 154, pt. 



5 3, and Vol 155, pt. 1. From the Society. 



^1 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. 14, Nos. 70 to 77. From the 



•y Society. 



] The Transactions of the Entomological Society. 3d Series, vol. Ill,, part 



.f. 2, to vol 5, part 3. From the Society. 



')> Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. 4, parts 5 and 



. 6. From the Society. 



- Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society, From 



1865, part 1, to 1866, part 1. Index 1848 to I860. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Zoological Society, London. Vol. 5, part 5, From 

 the Society, 




436 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Report of the Council of the Zoological Society, London. 18G5, From 



the Society. 

 The Populiir Science Review. Edited by Jas. Samuclson. Vols. 1 to No. 



20. 18(;G. From the Library Fund. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Nos. 92 to 104. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vols. 1 to 9, except No. 



1 of vol. 4. From the Society. 



Journal of the same. Vols. 21 to 34 inc. 1851—1864. From the Society. 

 The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. 24, part 3, to 



vol. 25, part 2. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Linnean Society. Zoology. Vol. 8, No. 30, to vol. 9, 



No. 33. From the Society. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Sciences. New Series, No. 21 to 23. 



From the Library Fund. 

 The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. Vol. 



13. From the Society. 

 The Anthropological "Review. 18G5. Nos. 9, 10 and 11. From the 



Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 21, part 3, to vol. 



22, part 3. From the Society. 

 List of Geological Society of London. 1865. From the Society. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal 



of Science. Fourth Series, Nos. 201 to 214. From the Library Fund. 

 The Ibis. New Series, .vol. I., 1865, to New Series, vol. II., No. 7. From 



the Library Fund. 

 The Journal of the Chemical Society. Oct., 1865, to Sept., 1866. From 



the Society. 

 The Naturalists' Miscellany. Vols. 1 to 18 inc. Presented by Rathmell 



Wilson, Esq. 

 The Zoologist. Nos. 168 to 250. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 The Naturalist. Nos. 68 to 95 inc. 1856—1859. Presented by Edw. 



Wilson, Esq. 

 The Farmers' Almanac for 1857 to 1864. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 The Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society of London. Vol. 1, Nos. 



2 and 3. From the Society. 



Royal Horticultural Society's Proceedings. Vol. 5, No. 8, to New Series, 

 vol. 1, No. 5. From the Society. 



Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 10 to 20 From 

 the Publisher. r 



The Athenaeum Journal. Nos. 1993 to 2031. From the Library Fund. 



The Record of Zoological Literature. Edited by Albert C. L. G. Gunther. 

 1864. Vol. 1. From the Library Fund. 

 Manchester. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Man- 

 chester. Vols. 3 and 4. From the Society. 

 New Castle. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland and Durham. 

 Vol. 1, pt. I. From the Society. 



UNITED STATES. 



Boston. Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 

 6, pages 365, et seq.. Vol. 7, pages 1 to 96. From the Academy. 

 Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 



1866. From the Trustees. 

 Memoirs read before the Boston Society of Natural History. VoL 1, pt. 1. 



From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 10, pages 17 

 to 384, From the Society. 

 Cambridge. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, at the Annual 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 437 



Meeting held in Worcester, Oct. 21, 1865, and Oct. 20, 186G. From 

 the Society. 

 Chicago. Proceedings of the Chicago Acadenay of Sciences. Vol. 1. pages 



1 to 48. From the Society. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Conducted by 

 Profs. B. Silliman and Jas. D. Dana. Vol. 41, No. 121, to Vol. 42, No. 

 126. From the Editors. 

 Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 1, 

 pt. 1. From the Society. 

 New Yorl£. The New York Medical Journal. Vol. 2, No. 10, to Vol. 4, No. 21. 

 From the Editors. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. 8, Nos. 6 to 12. From 



the Society. 

 The Seventh Annual Report of the Trustees of the Cooper Union for the 

 advancement of Science and Arts. From the Society. 

 Philadelphia. The Medical News and Library. Edited by Isaac Hays, M. D. 

 From the Editor. 

 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 13, part 2, 



new series. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 10, Nos. 74 



and Y5. From the Society. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Edited by Isaac Hays, 



M. D. New series, Nos. 101 to 103. From the Editor. 

 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Vol. 6 



pt. 1. From the Publication Committee. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association, from 1851 to 



1865 ; 1861 wanting. From the Association. 

 American Journal of Conchology. Edited by Geo. W. Tryon. Vol. 2, 



parts 1 to 4. From the Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Edited by Thos. Meehan. Vol. 8, Nos. 1—11. 



From the Editor. ^ 



The American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. 36, Nos. I to 6. From the 



Editor. 

 The Practical Entomologist. Vol. 1, 1865. From the Entomological 



Society. 

 Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia, Oct. and Dec, 



1865. From the Library Fund. 

 The Dental Cosmos. New Series. Dec, 1865— Nov., 1866. From the 

 Editors. 

 Salem. Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 4, No. 1 — Vol. 5, No. 1. 



From the Society. 

 St. Louis. The Transactions of the Academy of Sciences of St. Louis. Vol 



2, No. 2. From the Academy. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences. 

 Vol. 3, pt. 3. From the Society. 

 Ditto. Vols. 1 and 2. From Wm. M. Gabb. 



The Pacific Medical and Surgical Journal and Pres?. Vol. 9, No. 3. From 

 the Editor. 

 Washington. Catalogue of Additions made to the Library of Congress, 1865. 

 From the Librarian. 



CUBA. 

 Habana. Repertorio fisico-naturales de la Isla de Cuba. Director Felipe 

 Poey. Entrega 1—11, 1865, 1866. From the Editor. 



CANADA. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. New Series. Vol. 2, 



No» 6, Dec, 1865. From the Editors. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Arts. Conducted 



by the Editing Committee of the Canadian Institute. New Series. Nos. 



60 to 63. From the Society. 




438 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



ASIA. 



BaUrin. Nntnrkundig Tijd.schrift voor Nedorlandsch Indie, u'ligcgcren door 

 de K. Naturkiir digc Vurunigingin Nederlutidscb-Iiidie. Decleu 2(>aud 

 27. From the Society. 



Madras. Madras Journal, No. 25. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC WORKS. 



Adams' Genera of Recent Mollusca. Parts 27 to 3G. London, 1856, 1858. 



From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 A full and interesting Account of the great Hippopotamus. New York, 1863. 



From Prof. S. S. Haldeman. 

 Agassi/., Alexander. Illustrated Catalogue of the Museum of Comparative 



Zoology at Harvard College, No. 2. North American Acalephae. Cam- 

 bridge, 1865. From the Author. 

 Alder, Joshua. Supplement to a Catalogue of Land and Fresh Water Shells 



found in the vicinity of New Castle. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Annual Reports of the Smithsonian Institution for 1863 — 1865. Washing- 

 ton. From the Institution. 

 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of India, 1864, 1865. Calcutta, 1865. 



From the Survey. 

 Annual Report of the Surgeon General U. S. A., 1865. From the Surgeon 



General. 

 Ansted, T. The Correlation of the Natural History Sciences. London, 1863. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Anthropological Review. Nos. 9, 10 and 11. London, 1865. From the 



Executors of Dr. Thos. B. W^ilson. 

 Ball, M. Figures of Crania of Seals. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Baird, Spencer F. The Distrit)ution a%d Migrations of North American Birds. 



From the Author. 

 Baird, S. F. and C. Girard. Catalogue of North American Reptiles in the 



Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. Part 1. 

 Basel, Wilhelm. Crania Helvetica. Sammlung Schweizerischer Schadelformen. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Bastien, J. Fr. La P'lore Jardiniere. Paris, 1809. From Chas. H. Hart. 

 Bates, Henry Walter. The Naturalist on the River Amazon. 2 vols. Lon- 

 don, 1863. From the Library Fund. 

 Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt. Palaeontographica. 13 Band, 6es. 



Heft, to 16er Band les. Heft, 15er Band; 3e. Lief Cassel, 1816. From 



the Li^ rary Fund. 

 Benecke, E. W. Geognostische Paleontologische Beitrage. Erster Band, le. 



Heft. Munchen, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Bentham, G. Genera Plantarum ad exemplaria imprimis herbariis Kewensi- 



bus servata definita. Auctoribus G. Bentham et J. D. Hooker. Vol. 



Primi, pars ii. Sistens Dicotyledonum Polypetalarum ordines xi. 



Londini, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Bergmann, C. Anatomische physiologische Uebersicht des Thierrichs. 



Stuttgart, 1852. From the Library Fund. 

 Bernard!, A. B. Nuovi Generi e Nuovi Specie di Molluschi Palermo, 1832. 



From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Bertram, James G. The Harvest of the Sea. New York, 1866. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Blackwell, John. A History of the Spiders of Great Britain and Ireland. 4to. 



Parts 1 and 2. London, 1861. From the Library Fund. 

 Bleeker, P. D. Atlas kthyologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises. 19 



and 20 livr. Amsterdam, 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. 



Wilson. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 439 



Description de quelques especes de Cobitiorides et de Cyprinoides de 



Ceylan. Harlem, 1S64. From the Author. 

 Description des Especes de Silures de Suriname conservees aux Musees 



de Leide et d' Amsterdam. Harlem, 1864, From the Author. 

 Blyth, Edward. Catalogue of the Birds in the Museum of the Asiatic Society, 



Calcutta, 1849. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Bodley, Rachel L. Catalogue of Plauts contained in the Herbarium of Joseph 



Clark, arranged according to the Natural System. Cincinnati, 1865. 



From the Author. 

 Bohns, Henry G. General Catalogue, part the second, section third. Lon- 

 don, 1866. From the Publisher. 

 Bonaparte, C. L. Conspectus Volucrum Anisodactylorum. Presented by 



Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Catalogo Metodico dei Ciprinidi d'Europa. Milano, 1845. Presented by 



Ed. Wilson, Esq. 

 Conspectus Generum Avium. Lugduni Batavorum, 1850. Presented by 



Ed. Wilson, Esq. 

 Brace, Chas. L. The Races of the Old World. New York, 1864. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Brehm, A. E. Ergebnisse einer Reise nach Habesch. Hamburg, 1863. 

 Breyer, F. G. Observationes Anatomicae circa Fabricam Ranae Pipae Berolini. 



Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Brogniart Adolph. Memoire sur la Famille des Rhamn^es. Paris, 1826. Pre- 

 sented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Brown, A. D. Catalogue of the Genera Helix, Anostoma, Hypselostoma, 



Streptaxis, Tomigerus, Bulimus, Orthalicus, Partula, in the Collection, 



Jan. 1866. Princeton, N. J. 

 Brown Robert. Miscellaneous Botanical Works. Vol. L, containing, I., Geo- 



graphico Botanico, and II., Structural and Physiological Memoirs. 



London, Ray Society, 1866. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 Bruhl, Carl Bernhard. Das Skelet der Krokodilinen dargestellt in Zwanzig 



Tafeln. Wien, 1862. From the Library Fund. 

 Laqueus Owenii und Laqueus Tympanicus Petrosi, ein Nachtrag zu meiner 



Schrift das Skelet der Krokodilinen. Wien, 1865. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Brunet, C. J. Manuel du Libraire et de I'amateur de Livres. Tome 7me, 2e 



Partie and Fin. Paris, 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. 



B. Wilson. 

 Brunnichii, M. Th. Ornithologie Borealis. Hafniae, 1764. 

 Buchenau, Franz. Der Bluthenstand der Juncaceen. From the Author. 

 Bury, Mrs. Figures of Remarkable Forms of Polycystins or allied Organisms 



in the Barbados Chalk Deposit, 1860 — 1864. From Isaac Lea. 

 Candolle, Alphonso De. Prodromus Systematis Naturalis regni vegetabilis. 



Paris, Deciraa Quinta Fasi. II. Parisius, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Capellini, Cav. G. La Storia Naturale dei dintorni del Golfo della Spezia 



Storia. Milano, 1865. 

 Descrizione Geologica dei dintorni del Golfo della Spezia val di Magra 



Inferiore. Bologna, 1864. Carta Geolog. From the Author. 

 Balenottere Fossile del Bolognese. Bologna, 1865. From the Author. 

 Delfine Fossill del Bolognese. Bologna, 1864. From the Author. 

 Les Phyllites Cretacees du Nebraska. Zurich, 1866. From the Author. 

 Catalogue of additions made to the Library of Congress Irom Dec. 1., 1864, to 



Dec. 1, 1865. Washington, 1865. From the Librarian. 

 Catalogue Coquilles. From Isaac Lea, L. L. D. 

 Catalogue of the Foreign Shells in the Cabinet of the Manchester Natural 



History Society. 1837. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Catalogue of the organic remains belonging to the Echinoderraata in the Mu- 

 seum of the Geological Survey of India. Calcutta, 1865, From the 



Society. 




440 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Catalogue of the American Philosophical Society Library. Part II. Philadel- 

 phia, lyCG. From the Society. 

 Catlow, Agnes. The Conchologists Nomenclator. London, 1845. 

 Gheuu, Dr. Tables generales Alphabetiques do L'Kncyclopedie d'histoire 

 Naturelle. Anncles et Coleopteres. Paris, 18G0 and 18G1. From the 

 Library Fund. 

 Chicago Academy of Science. > Acts of Incorporation, &c. 1805. From the 



Society. 

 Clark, Henry Jas. Mind in Nature ; or the origin of life, and the mode of de- 

 velopment of life of Animals. New York, 1865. From the Library 

 Fund. 

 Coast Survey. Report of the Superintendent, showing the progress of the Survey 



during the year 1863. Washington, 1864. From Prof. A. D. Bache. 

 Cobbold, T. Spencer. Entozoa ; an introduction to the Study of Helminthol- 

 ogy, with reference, more particularly, to the Internal Parasites of Man. 

 London, 1864. From the Library Fund. 

 Colleccao das Medalhas e Condecoracoes Portuguezas pertencinte ao Tom. 

 III., Parte II., das Memorias da Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa. 

 From the Academy. 

 Conrad, Johann and Edward Susemihl. Die Vogel Europa's. Darmstadt. 

 Plates. I. plates 1 to 54; wanting, 22, 23, 29, 51, 52. II. plates 1 to 

 20; wanting. Hand 12. III. plates 1 to 6. IV. plates 1 and 2. V. 

 plates 1, 3 and 4. VI. plates 1, 2 and 3. VII. plates 5, 8, and 11. IX. 

 plates 2 to 6. XIL plates 1 and 2. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Cooke, M.C. Hardwicke's Science-Gossip. Loudon, 1866. From the Library 

 Fund. 

 Rust, Smut, Mildew and Mould. London, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Cooper, J. G. Description of a New California Helix, with Notes on others 



already described. From the Author. 

 Cornish, W. F. Observations on the habits of Exotic Birds. Exeter, 1837. 



From Edw. Wilson. 

 Cotta, Bernard. Die Geologic der Gegenwart. Leipzig, 1866. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Crax, Pauxi, and Penelope. Memoranda Manuscript. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Credner, Hermann. Geognostische Skizze der Umgegend New York. From 

 the Author. 

 Geognostische Beschreibung des Bergwerks-Distriktes von St. Andreas- 

 berg. Berlin, 1865. From the Author. 

 Geognostische Reisseskizzen aus New Brunswick in Nord Amerika. From 



the Author. 

 Geognostische Skizzen aus Virginia, Nord Amerika. From the Author. 

 Cypriani, Johannis. Historise Animalium. Lipsiae, 1688. From Rathmell 



Wilson, Esq. 

 Daddow, Samuel Harries and Benjamin Bannan, Coal, Iron and Oil ; or the 



Practical American Miner. Pottsville, 1866. From the Author. 

 Dall, W. A. Geognostische Skizzen aus Virginia, Nord Amerika. From the 



Author. 

 Dalyell, Sir John G. Rare and Remarkable Animals of Scotland. 2 vols., 4to. 



London, 1857. From the Library Fund. 

 Dana, Jas. D. Observations on the Origin of some of the Earth's features. 

 From the Author. 

 On Cephalization. No. IV. Explanations drawn out by the Statements 

 of an objection. From the Author, 

 Davis, J. B. On the importance of a due estimate of the different modes and 

 degrees of deformation of the Skull in the Study of Craniology. From 

 the Author. 

 Degland, C. D. Ornithologie Europaenne. 2 vols., 8vo. Le Trouve, 1849. 



From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Deiters, Otto. Untersucliungen iiber Gehirn und Riickenmark des Menschen 

 und der Saugethiere. Braunschweig, 1865. From the Library Fund. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 441 



Delafosse, M. Suites a Buffon. Mineralogie. 3 vols of text ; 1 of plates. Paris, 

 1860. 



Delattre, M. A. Notes Ornithologiques sur les collections rapportees en 

 1853. Paris, 1854. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Delaunay, M. Essay on the Velocity of Light. Translated by Alfred M. Mayer. 

 From the Translator. 



Denny, Henry. On the discovery of Hippopotamic and other remains in the 

 neighborhood of Leeds. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Des Murs, 0. Traite General d'Oologie Ornithologique. Paris, 1860. Pre- 

 sented by Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 



Desor, E. Les Palafittes ou constructions lacustres du Lac de Neuchatel. 

 Paris, 1865. From the Library Fund. 



Dickson, Jacobi. Fasciculus Plantarum Cryptogamicarum Britannias. Lon- 

 don, 1785. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Donnell, Robt. M. Observations on the functions of the Liver. From the 

 Author. 



Donovan, B. The Natural History of the Nests and Eggs of British Birds. 

 Nos. 1 to 4. London, 1826. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Dublin International Exhibition, 1865. Kingdom of Italy. Official Catalogue. 

 Turin, 1865. From the Commissioners. 



Dubois, Ch. F. Oiseaux de I'Europe. 200 — 210me. Livr's. Bruxelles, 1850. 

 From the Library Fund. 

 Oiseaux de I'Europe suite aux Planches. Bruxelles, 1865. From the 

 Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Dubois, C. A catalogue of rare specimens of exotic Conchology. London, 

 1821. From Prof. S. S. Haldeman. 



Durckheim, Hercule Straus. Anatomic descriptive et comparative du Chat. 

 2 vols., 4to., and Atlas Folio. Paris, 1845. From the Library Fund. 



Dusseau, J. L. Catalogue de la Collection d' Anatomic humaine. Compar^e 

 et Pathologigue de M. M. Ger et W. Vrolik. Amsterdam, 1865. From 

 the Author. 



Ecker, Alexander. Crania Germaniae meridionalis occidentalis. Freiburg im 

 B., 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 



Engelmann, Wilhelra. Bibliotheca Historico-Naturalis. Erster Band. Leip- 

 zig, 1846, Presented by Ed. Wilson, Esq. 



Elliott, Danl. G. Monograph of Tetraoninae ; or Family of the Grouse. Parts 

 4 and 5. New York, 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Erdmann, A. Sveriges Geologiska Undersokniog pii offentlig bekostnad Ut- 

 ford. Nos. 14 and 18. Stockholm, 1865. From the Geological Sur- 

 vey of Sweden. 



Erichsons Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschland. Band 1, Lief. 2. Band 

 2, Lief. 3 to 6. Band 4, Lief. 1. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Eschrich^, Profs. Reinhardt and Lilljeborg. Recent Memoirs on the Cetaceae. 

 By Wm. Henry Fowler. Loudon, for the Ray Society, 1866. From 

 the Library Fund. 



Essex Institute. Historical Notice of Salem, 1866. From the Society. 



Falconer, Hugh, and Proby T. Cautley. Fauna Antiqua Sivalensis ; being 

 the fossil zoology of the Sewalik Hills, in the North of India. Letter- 

 press, part 1, 8vo, and Plates, parts 1 — 9. London, 1846, 1847. From 

 the Library Fund. 



Ferrusac, M. D. Essai d'une Methode Conchyliologique. Nouvelle Edition. 

 Paris, 1807. From Prof. S. S. Haldeman. 



Figanier, Louis. The World before the Deluge. 8vo. New York, 1866. 

 From the Library Fund. 



First Annual Report of the Visitors of the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale 

 College. New Haven, 1866. From the School. 



Flint, Austin. The Physiology of Man. Designed to represent the existing 

 state of Physiological Science, as applied to the functions of the human 

 body. New York, 1866. From the Library Fund. 



Forster, F. The Pocket PJncyclopaedia of Natural Phenomena. Loadon. 

 From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 




442 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Frauenfcld, Ccorpc Ritter von. Bericht iiber eine Sarnmelreise durch Eng- 

 land, Schottland, Irland uud die Scliweitz. From the Author. 

 Zoolopfische Miscollen, 4, 5, 6. From the author. 

 Fricker, Autonius. Dissertatio Inauguralis de Oculo Reptilium Tubingae. 



From Isaac Lea, LL.D. 

 Frost and Fire. By a Traveller. 2 vols., 8vo. Fldinburgh, 18G5. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Gamgee, John and Joseph Law. General and Descriptive Anatomy of Do- 

 mestic Animals. 8vo. Edinburgh, 18G1. From the Library Fund. 

 Gaudry, Albert. Animaux Fossiles et Geologique de I'Attique. Lives 1 — 14. 



Paris, 1862. From the Library Fund. 

 Gaussoin, Eugene. Memoirs on the Island of Navassa. Baltimore, 1866, 



Atlas Folio. From the Author. 

 Geology and Modern Thought ; and Present Position and Future Prospects 



of Geological Inquiry. From the Edinburgh Geological Society. 

 Geological burvey of Canada. Report of Progress from its commencement 

 to 1863. Atlas of Maps and Sections. Montreal, 1865. From the 

 Survey. 

 Gervais, M. Paul. Atlas de Zoologie. Paris, 1844. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Gialdie, Alessandro. Sul Moto Ondoso del Mare e su leCorrenti di Esso spe- 

 cialmente su quelle Littorali pel Comm. Roma, 1866. From the 

 Author. 

 Gould, John. An Introduction to the Birds of Australia. London, 1848. 

 Handbook to the Birds of Australia. 2 vols., 8vo. London. From the 



Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 The Birds of Asia. Parti'?. London, 1865. From the Executors of the 

 late Dr. Wilson. 

 Graells, M. P. Catalogue de los Molascos Terrestres y de agua dulce observa- 



dos en Espana, Madrid, 1846. 

 Grant, Robert E. On the Structure and Classification of Animals. London, 



1833. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Gray, G. R. Catalogue of the Genera and Subgenera of Birds contained in 

 the British Museum. London, 1855. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Grey, John Edw. Handbook of British Water Weeds or Algae ; the Diato- 

 maceae by W. Carruthers. 12mo. London, 1864. From the Author. 

 Grote, Aug. R. Notes on the Bombycidae. of Cuba. Philadelphia, 1865. From 

 the Author. 

 Notes on the Zygaenidse of Cuba. Philadelphia, 1866. From the Editors. 

 Grote, Aug. R., and Coleman T. Robinson. A Synonymical Catalogue of 

 North American Sphingide. Nov., 1865. From the Authors. 

 Lepidopterological Notes and Descriptions. No. 2. From the Authors. 

 Lepidopterological Cont'-ibutions. New York, 1866. From the Authors. 

 Graesse, Jean G. T. Tresor de Livres rares et precieux. Tome 6rae, 3 to 6 



livrs. Dresde, 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 Giinther, Albert C. L. G. The Reptiles of British India. Published for the 

 Ray Society. London, 1864. From the Library Fund. 

 Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum. Vols. 4 and 5. London, 



1862, 1864. From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. Wilson. 

 The Record of Zoological Literature, 1864. Vols. 1st and 2d, 8vo. Lon- 

 don, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Gutzeit, Teodor fon. The Law of Twins of Crystals. Riga, 1865. From the 



Author. 

 Hamlin Charles E. Catalogue of Birds found in the vicinity of Waterville, 



Kennebec Co. From the Author. 

 Hanley. Twelve Plates of Conchologia Miscellania. Unpublished. Pre- 

 sented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Hartlaub, G. System der Ornithologie West-Africa's. Bremen, 1857. From 



Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Hartwig, Dr. G. The Tropical World, Svo. London, 1863. From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 443 



The Harmonies of Nature, or the Unity of Creation. London, 1866. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Hastings, Charles. Illustrations of the Natural History of Worcestershire. 



From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Herklots, J. A. Bouwstoffen voor eene Fauna van Nederland onder mede- 



werking von onderscheidene geleerden en beoefenaars der Dierkunde 



bijeenverzameld door. Tweede Deel. Laiden, 1858. From Edw. Wil- 

 son, Esq. 

 Hewitson, W. C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 55 — .59. July, 1865. From the 



Executors of the late Dr. Wilson, 

 Hitchcock, Edward. Outline of the Geology of the Globe, and of the United 



States in particular. Boston, 1856. From Dr. Leidy. 

 Supplement to the Ichnology of New England. 4to. Boston, 1865. From 



Dr. Leidy. 

 Hoffman, Herman. Icones Analyticae Fungorum. 4 Heft. Giessen, 1865. 



From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 

 Hooker, Wm. Jackson. Species Filicum; being descriptions of the known 



Ferns, particularly of such as exist in the Author's Herbarium, or are 



with sufficient accuracy described in works to which he has had access. 



5 vols., 8 vols. London, 1846, 1859. From the Library Fund. 

 Horsfield, Thos. A Catalogue of Birds in the Museum of the Hon. East India 



Company; Catalogues of Birds, Mammalia, and Vol. 1 Catalogue of 



Lepidoptera. 4 vols. Presented by Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Hlixley, Thos. Henry. Lectures on the Elements of Comparative Anatomy. 



London, 1864. From the Library Fund. 

 On our knowledge of the causes of the Phenomena of Organic Nature. 



London, 1863. From the Library Fund. 

 Indigenous Mammalia and Birds. Systematic Catalogue of the Specimens 



that are presented in the British Museum. London, 1816. From Edw. 



Wilson, Esq. 

 Jager, Hermann Friedrich. Anatomische Untersuchungen des Orycteropus 



Capensis. Stuttgart, 1837. From Isaac Lea, LL.D. 

 Jan, M. le Prof. Iconographie generale des Ophidiens. lOme, 16me livrs. 



Paris, 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 

 Jones, Thos. Rymer. The Animal Creation : a Popular Introduction to 



Zoology. London, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Karsten, H. Florae Calnmbrae terrarumque Adiacentium Specimina Selecta. 



Tome 2. Fasc. Tertius. Berolini, 1865. From the Executors of the late 



Dr. Wilson. 

 Kaup, J. J, Classification der Saugethiere und Vogel. Darmstadt, 1844. 



From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Katalog der Bibliothek des K. K. Hof Mineralien Cabinets in Wien, 1851. 



From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Keyserling, Graf Eugen. Neue Cypriniden aus Persien. Gesammeltund be- 



schrieben. Berlin, 1861. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Kiener, L. C. Species general et Iconographie des Coquilles vivantes. 9 



vols. Paris. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 King, C. W. The Natural History, Ancient and Modern, of Precious Stones 



and Gems, and of Precious Metals. Loudon, 1865. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Kjerulf, Lector T. Veiviser ved Geologiska Excursioner i Christiana Omegn 



med et farvetrykt Kart og flere traesmit. Christiana, 1865. From the 



Author. 

 Koch, Ludwig. Die Arachniden Familie der Dressiden. les Heft. Nurn- 



berg, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Die Pfianzenliiuse Aphiden getreu nach dera Leben abgebildetundbesch- 



rieben. Heftes 1 — 9. Nurnberg, 1854, 1857. From the Library Fund. 

 Die Myriapoden, Getreu nach der Natur abgebildet und beschriebea. ler 



and 2er band. Halle, 1863. From the Library Fund. 




444 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Kolliker, A. Icones Ilistologicae oder Atlas der Verglcichenden Gcwcbclehre. 



Ics et 2cs Abth. Leipx-ig, 1S()4 — 18GG. From the Library Fund. 

 Kner, R. Lehrbuch der Zoologie zurn (Jebrauche fur Hohere Lehranstalten. 



8vo. Wein, 18G5. From Jos. Leidy, M. D. 

 Kuster IL C. Systematiches Conchilien Cabinet von Martini und Chemnitz. 



ler Hand, Ileft 77. Nurnbcrg, ISiV.i. From the Library Fund. 

 Lea, Isaac. On Leaia Leidyi, Cypricardia Leidyi, Descriptions of Fourteen 



New Species of Mehvuidae, &c. Philadelphia, 18(50. From the Author. 

 Tables of the Rectification of Mr. T. A. Conrad's Synopsis of the Family 



Naiades of North America. Philadelphia, 1860. From the Author. 

 Lea, M. Carey. On the Nature of the Action of Light upon lodid of Silver. 



From the Author. 

 Leidy, Dr. Jos. The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska. Washington, 1853. From 



the Author. 

 Leotaud, A. Oiseaux de I'lle de la Trinidad Antille?. Port d Espagne, 1866. 



From the Author. 

 Lesquereux, Leo. On Fucoides in the Coal Formations. From the Author. 

 Lesson, R. P. Histoire Naturelle des Colubres, des Trochilidees, et des Oi- 

 seaux Mouches. 4 vols., 8vo. Paris. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Leydig, Franz. Lehrbuch der Histologie des Menschen und der Thiere. 



Frankfort-am-Main, 1857. From the Library Fund. 

 Liebig, Justus. Induction and Deduction, Miinchen, 1865. From the Author. 

 Lilljeborg, Af Wilh. Ornithologiska Bidrag. Upsala, 1860. From Rathmell 



Wilson, Esq. 

 Livingstone, David, and Charles. Narrative of an Expedition to the Zambesi 



and its Tributaries; and of the discovery of the Lakes l^hirwa and 



Nyassi, 1858—1864. New York, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Lord, John Keast. The Naturalist in Vancouver Island and British Columbia. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Loven S. Om Ostersjon. of. From the Author, 



2 vols., 8vo. London, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Luschka, Dr. H. Die Adcrgeflechte des Menschlichen Gehirnes. Eine Mono- 

 graphic von Dr. Hubert Luschka. Berlin, 1855. From the Library Fund. 

 Luthi, Jacobus C. Dissertatio Inauguralis sistens observations Nonnullas 



Zootomicas Os Cordis cervi, &c. Tubingae, 1814. From Isaac 



Lea, LL.D. 

 Lund, P. W. Forstatte Bemaerkninger over Brasiliens und odo Dyrskabning 



Kjobenhavn, 1842. From the Library Fund. 

 Blik pad Brasiliens Dyrever den for Sidste Jordomvaeltning. Kjoben- 

 havn, 1843. From the Library Fund. 

 Meddelelse af det ud bytte de i 1844 undersogteknoglebuler haveaf giret 



tilkundskaben om Brasiliens dyreverden for Sidste Jordomvaeltning, 



et brev Kjobenhaven, 1845. From the Library Fund. 

 Lyonet, Pierre. Traite Anatomique de la Chenille qui ronge le Bois de Saule. 



A la Haye, 1760. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Mackall, Louis. An Essay on the Law of Muscular Action. Washington, 



1865. From the Author. 

 An Essay on the Life in Nature, Washington, 1855, From the Author. 

 Extract from an unpublished Essay on Physical Force. Washington, 1865. 



From the Author. 

 Malherbe, Alfred. Faune Ornithologique de la Sicile par 1843. Metz. From 



Rathmell Wilson, Esq, 

 Map of North America, on rollers. From W. S. Vaux. 

 Map of Fifteen Miles around Philadelphia. From Chas. E. Smith, Esq. 

 Maravigne, M. C. Memoires pour server a I'Histoire Naturelle de la Sicile. 



Paris, 1838. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Marcou, Jules. Notice sur les gisements des lentilles trilobitiferes taconiqu«s 



de la Pointe-Levis an Canada. From the Author. 

 Une Reconnaissance Geologique au Nebraska. From the Author. 

 Le Niagara quinze ans apres. From the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 445 



Margo, Theodor. Uber die Endigung der Nerven in der Quergestriften Mus- 



kelsubstanz. Pest, 186li. 

 Marsh, Geo. P. Man and Nature ; or, Physical Geography as modified by 



Human Action. 8vo. New York, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Martini, von, und Chemnitz, Systematisches Conchilien Cabinet. 5en, bands 



4er abthiel, heft 1. Nurnberg, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Martins, C. F Ph. v. Vortrage uber die Florenreiche oder Imperial Florae. 

 Maximilian, Prince zu Wied. Verzeichniss der Reptilien welche aufeiner 



Reise im nordlichen America. Dresden, 1865. From the Author. 

 Verzeichniss der auf Seiner Reise in Nord Amerika beobachteten Sauge- 



thiere. Berlin, I862i 

 Mears, John W. Water Supply of our great Cities. From the Author. 

 Meigen, J. W. Systematische Beschreibung der bekannten. Europaischen 



zeveiflugeligen Insecten. Vols. 1 to 6. Halle, 1851. 

 Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. III. 2 to 5, pt. 1. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Memoirs of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom. Figures and De- 

 scriptions illustrative of British Organic Remains. Decade xi. Monog. 



ii., with 3 folio plates. London, 1864. From the Executors of the late 



Dr. Thos. B, Wilson. 

 Mercantile Library Company of Philadelphia, 1866. Forty-third Annual Re- 

 port. From the Library Company. 

 Messages and Documents of the War Department, 1865 — 1866. Parts 3 and 4. 



Washington, 1866. From the Department. 

 Meteorologisch Jaarbock. 1 & 2 Gedeelte Uitgegeven door het K. Neder- 



landsch Meteorologisch Institut, 1865. Utrecht, 1866. From the 



Society. 

 Meteorologische Waarnemingen in Nederland en zijme Bezittingin uitgegeven 



door het K Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut, 1864. Utrecht, 



1865. From the Institute. 

 Meyer, Hermann. Die Fossilen Ziihne und Knochen und ihre Auflagerung in 



der Gegend von Georgensgmund in Bayern untersucht und abgebildet. 



Frankfurt ara-main, 1834. From the Library Fund. 

 Palaeontographica Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt. 12er band, 



6te Lief. 3er Band, 4er Band, 2e Lief. Cassel, 1865. 13er Band, 5te 



Lief. 14er Band, 5te Lief. From the Executors of the late Dr. Thos. 



B. Wilson. 

 Meyer, H., und K. Mobius. Fauna der Kieler Bucht. ler band. Leipzig, 



From the Library Fund. 

 Meyer, Bernhard. Kurzer Beschreibung der Vogel Liv-und Esthlands. Nurn- 

 berg, 1815. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Miguel, P. A. G. Annales Musei Botanici Lngduno Batavi. Tome 2., fasc. 1. 



Amstelodami, 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 

 Milne, Edwards H., A de Quatrefages et Emil Blanchard. Recherches Ana- 



tomiques et Zoologiques. 3 vols.,4to. Paris. From the Executors of the 



late Dr. Wilson. 

 Moleschott, Jac. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der 



Thiere. 10 Band, les and 2e3 Heftes, Giessen, 1866. From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 Molkenbaur, J. H. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc. 45 — 46. Lugduni Batavorum, 



1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Morch, 0. A. L. Catalogue Conchyliorum. From Isaac Lea, L. L. D. 

 Mortillet, Gabriel. Materiaux pour I'histoire positive et philosophique de 

 I'Homme. Premier Annee et Seconde Annee, Sept., 1865, to Juin, 



1866. Paris. From the Library Fund. 



Morris, F. 0. A History of British Birds. By parts 11 to 90. London. Pre- 

 sented by Ed. Wilson, Esq. 



Motley, James, and Lewis Lewellyn Dillwyn. Contributions to the Natural 

 History of Labuan. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Mouhote, M. Henri. Travels in the Central Parts of India, China, Cambodia, 




446 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



and Laos, dnrlng the years 1858, 1859, and I860. 2 vols., 8vo. Lon- 

 don, 18(54. From the Library P^ind. 



Moulins, M. Ch. Des. Note sur la Letter de M. Alph. de Rochebrune relatif 

 aux plantes Import^es. Caen, 1865. From the Author. 

 Etude sur les Cailloux Roulis de la Dordogne, 18G5. Bordeaux, 1866. 

 From the Author. 



Mueller, Dr. C. Walpers. Annalcs Botanices Systematicae. Tomi Sexti, 

 Fasc. VIII. Lipsiae, 1865. From the Library Fund. 



Muller's Singvogel. Heftes 1 to 4. Nurnberg, 1799—1800. From Edw. 

 Wilson, Esq. 



Murchison, Roderick J., Edouard de Verneuil and Count Alexander von 

 Keyserling. The Geology of Russia in Europe, and the Ural Moun- 

 tains. From the Library Fund. 



Meyer, H. L. Colored Illustrations of British Birds and their Eggs. 1 vol- 

 umes, 8vo. London, 1850 — 1862. From the Library Fund. 



Nageli, Carl. Entstehung und Begriff der Naturhistorischen Art. Zweite 

 Auflage. Munchcn, 1865. From the Author. 



Nameche, A. J. De Origine Evangeliorum de que eoriim Historica Auctori- 

 tatft. Ex Auctoritate propectoris Louvanii. From the Catholic Uui- 

 versity at Louvain. 



New American Cyclopaedia. Vols. 15 and 16. New York, 1865. From the 

 Library Fund. 



Nilsson, So. Ornithologia Sueciea. 2 vols., 8vo. Havniae, 1817. From the 

 Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Nitsch, Christian Ludwig. System der Pterylographie. Halle, 1840. From 

 the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Normand, N. A. J. Notice sur plusieurs Nouvelles especea de Cyclades. Va- 

 lenciennes, 1844. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Novara. Reise der Oesterreichischen Fregatte Novara um die Erde in den 

 Jahren 1857, 1858, 1859. Zoologischer Theil : Vogel, Fische und 

 Crustaceen. Geologischer Theil : 2er Band, 21 Abth. Statistich 

 Commercieller Theil : 2er Band. Wien, 1865. From the Executors 

 of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Owen, Richard. Key to the Geology of the Globe. Boston, 1857. From 

 Dr. Leidy. 



Page, David. The Past and Present Life of the Globe. Edinburgh, 1861. 

 From the Library Fund. 



Palaeontological Society's Publications. Two volumes issued for 1856. Pre- 

 sented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Publications of the volume for 1863. London, 1865. From the Execu- 

 tors of Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 



Palaeontologie Frangaise. Terrain Cretace. Livrs. 19 — 21. Terrain Juras- 

 sique. Livrs. 8 and 9. Paris, 1866. From the Library Fund. 



Pallas, P. S. SpicilegiaZoologica. 2 vols., 4to. Berolini, 1767. From the 

 Executors of the late Dr. Wilson. 



Panum, P. L. Untersuchung iiber die Entstehung der Missbildungen Zuniichst 

 in den Eiernder Vagal. Berlin, 1860. From the Executors of the late 

 Dr. Wilson. 



Paravey, M. le Chevalier de. Eymologie du Nom de L'Aconit. From Mods. 

 Des Moulins. 



Perthes, M. Boucher. Lettre relative aux Silex Tallies de Main d'homme ou 

 antehistoriques. From M. Boucher Perthes. 



Perugia, A. Catalogo del Pesci dell' Adriatico. Trieste, 1866. From the 

 Author. 



Petermann, Dr. Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes Geographischer Anstalt 

 iiber Wichtige neue Erforschungen auf dem gesammt gebeite der 

 Geographic. 1866,11,111. Gotha, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Peters, Wilhelm. Ueber Cercosaura iiber die Mit dieser gattung verwandte 

 eidechsten aus SUd-Araerica, Berlin, 1862. From the Executors of 

 the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 447 



Pfeiflfer, Ludovico. Monographia Pneumonopomorum Viventium. Supple- 

 mentnni Secundum. Cassellis, 1865. From the Executors of the late 

 Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 

 Monographia Auriculaceorum Viventium. Cassellis, 1856. 

 Noritates Conchologicae — Abildung und Bescreibung neuer Conchylien. 

 22 Lief., II. Abtheilung. Meeres-Conchylien Ton Dr. W, Dunker. 8., 

 9, Lief., Supplement III.; 2. and 3. Lief. Cassel. From the Executors 

 of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 



Phipson, T. L. Phosphorescence, or the Emission of Light by Minerals, Plants 

 and Animals. London, 1862. From the Library Fund. 



Pictet, A. Ed. Synopsis des Neuropteres d'Espagne. Geneve, 1865. From 

 the Library Fund. 



Pictet, F. J. Materiaux pour la Paleontologie Suisse. Quatrieme Serie, 

 Seconde 3me, 4me Livrs. Geneve, 1865. From the Executors of the 

 late Dr. Thos. Wilson. 



Pictet, F. J., C. Gauden and Ph. de la Harpe. Memoire Sur les Animaux ver- 

 tebres trouves dans le Terrain Siderolitique du Canton de Vaud et ap- 

 partenant a la Faune. Geneve, 1853, 1857. From the Library Fund. 



Pictet, F. J., et A. Hambert. Nouvelles Recherches snr les Poisons Fossiles 

 du Mont Liban. Geneve, 1866. From the Author. 



Poey, Felipe. Repertorio Fisico Natural de la Isla de Cuba. Tome. 1 En- 

 trega 14. Habana, 1866. From the Editor. 



Porcher, Francis. Illustrations of Disease with the Microscope. Part First. 

 Charleston, S. C, C. S. A., 1861. From the Author. 



President's Address to the Royal Society. 1836. Presented by Edw. Wil- 

 son, Esq. 



Pritchard, Andrevr. A History of Infusoria, including the Desmidiaceae and 

 Diatomacese, British and Foreign. Fourth Ed. London, 1861. From 

 the Library Fund. 



Prospectus of Messrs. de Schlagintweit's Collection of Ethnographical Heads 

 from India and high Asia. From the Author. 



Quaterfages, Ad. Physiologie Comparee. Metamorphoses de L'Homme et 

 des Animaux. Paris, 1862. From the Library Fund. 



Quetelet, Ad. Statistique Internationale (Population) publiee avec la Colla- 

 boration des Statisticiens. Officials des differents 6tats de I'Europe et 

 des Etats Unis d'Amerique. Par Ad. Quetelet, et Xav. Heuschling. 

 Bruxelles, 1865. From the Authors. 



Quinary Arrangement of Birds. Manuscript. Presented by Edw. Wilson, 

 Esq. 



Ramsay, A. C. The Physical Geology and Geography of Great Britain. 

 London, 1864. From the Library Fund. 



Reakirt, Tryon. Descriptions of some new Species of Danainae. Descrip- 

 tions of some new species of Eresia. Observations upon some Ameri- 

 can Pierinae. From the Author. 

 On Coloradian Butterflies. Philadelphia, 1866. From the Author. 

 Descriptions of some new Species of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Philadelphia, 

 1866. From the Author. 



Reeve, Lovell. .Conchologla Iconica. Parts 246 to 259. London, 1865. 

 From the Executors of Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 



Reichenbach, Heinrich G. Xenia Orchidacea. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der 

 Orchideen. 2er Band, 4es Heft. Leipzig, 1865. From the Executors 

 of the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 



Reichenbach's Novitiae Synopsis Avium. 8 numbers. Prasented by Edw. 

 Wilson, Esq. 



Reichenbach's Avium Systema Natura. 1 vol., 4to. 



Reinhardt, Johannes. Vaagmaeren Trachypterus Vogmarua. Also an Eng- 

 lish Translation in Manuscript. Presented by Edw. vVilson, Esq. 



Reinwald, C. Catalogue Annuel de la Librair^ Frangaise. 8me. Ann<$e, 

 1865. From F. Leypoldt. 




448 PONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Reise der Oostcrrcichisclien Frogatto Novara um die Erde. Naulisch-Physi- 



caliscluT Theil, III. Abtheilung. Wien, 1895. From the Austrian 



Marine Department. 

 Reisen luid Forschungen im Amur-Lando in den Jahren 1854 — 1856, Band 



II., 2e Lief. Coleopteren. St. Petersburg, 1860, From Prof. S. S. 



Halderaan. 

 Richardson's Revised sheets of Fauna Boreali Americana, with an unpub- 

 lished drawing. From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Roth, Dr. J., and Dr. Andreas Wagner. Die Fossilen Knochen-Ueberreste 



von Pikermi in Griechenland. Miinchen, 1854. From the Authors. 

 Royal Dublin Society. Evening Scientific Meeting, May 30th, 1837. From 



Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Rutimeyer, L. Eocaene Saugethiere aus dera Gebiet des Schweizerischen 



Jura. From the Library Fund. 

 Ryan, Matthew. The Celebrated Theory of Parallels. Washington, 1866. 



From the Author. 

 Salisbury, Richard Anthony. The Genera of Plants. A fragment containing 



part of Liriogamae. London, 1866. From G. E. Gray. 

 Sars. Norges Ferskvandskrebsdyr forste afsmit Branchiopoda 1. Cladocera 



Ctenopoda. Christiana, 1865. From the Author. 

 Om de i Norge Forekommende Fossile Dyrelevninger fra Quartuerpe- 



rioden, et Bidragtil vor Faunas Historic. Christiana, 1865. From the 



Author. 

 Saussure, H. F. de. Monographic des Guepes Solitaires. Cahier 2. Paris, 



1852. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Blattarum Novarum Species Aliquot. From the Author. 

 Rchurz's Synopsis Mammalium. Pars I. and II. Solothurn, 1844. 

 Schlegel, H. Essai sur la Physionomie des Serpens, 1837. 2 vols., Text 1, 



Plates. La Hage. 

 Histoire Naturelle des Oiseaux d'Europe. One Number. From Edw, 



Wilson, Esq. 

 De Vogels van Nederlandsch Indie. Haarlem, 1866. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Sclater's Monograph of Calliste. Parts 2, 3 and 4. Presented by Edw. Wil- 

 son, P]sq. 

 Scoutetten, M. Discours, prononce a I'ourerture du cours public d'Hygiene. 



From Edw. Wilson. 

 Scudder, S. H. On the Fossil Insects from Illinois, the Miamia and the 



Hemeristia. Sept., 1865. From the Author. 

 Notes on Odonata. From the Author. 

 Shaler, N. G. List of the Brachiopoda, from the Island of Anticosti, sent 



by the Museum of Comparative Zoology to different Institutions in 



Exchange for other specimens, with Annotations. From the Author. 

 Shumard, B. F. A Catalogue of the Palaeozoic Fossils of North America. Part 



I., Echinodermata. St. Louis, 1866. From the Author. 

 Sebright, J. S. The Act of improving the breeds of Domestic Animals. 



London. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Secretary of the Navy, Report of, with an appendix containing Report from 



Officers, Dec, 1865. Washington, 1865. From the Secretary of the 



Navy. 

 Siebcld, Carl, Theodore V. und Albert Kolliker, Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaft- 



liche Zoologie. 16er Band, les Heft. Leipzig, 1866. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Simmonds, P. L. Waste Products and Undeveloped Substances. London, 



1862. From ths Library Fund. 

 Simon, Eugene. * Histoire Naturelle des Araignees (Araneides.) Paris, 1864. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Smith, James. Researches in Newer Pliocene and Post tertiary Geology. 



Glasgow, 1862. From the Library P^und. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 449 



Sowerby, G. B. A Catalogue of the Shells contained in the collection of the 



late Earl of Tankerville. London, 1825, From Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Thesaurus Conchyliorum, Parts 24 and 25. London, 1866. From 



Edward Wilson, Esq. 

 Stabile, Jos. MoUusques Terrestres vivants du Piedmont. Milan, 1864. 



From Isaac Lea, LL.D. 

 Steiner, Lewis IL A Sketch of the History, Plan of Organization and 



Operation of the U. S. Sanitary Commission. Philadelphia, 1866. 



From the Author. 

 Stoppani, Antoine. Paleontologie Lombarde. 34 — 38 Livrs. Mulan, 1860- 



— 65. From the Library Fund. 

 Suites a, Buflfon. Echinodermes and Acalephes. Paris, 1843, 1862. 

 Sundevall, C. J. Conspectum Avium Picinarum. Stocholmiae, 1866. Fromi 



the Library Fund. 

 Tenny, Sanborn A. M. A Manual of Zoology for Schools, Colleges and the 



General Reader. New York, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Temminck, C. J. Esquisses Zoologques sur la Cqte de Guine. 1 Partie, 



Mammiferes. Leiden, 1853. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 

 Toussaini, A. J. D. S. On the Urinary Organs of Fishes. Leyden, 1835. 



Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq, 

 Trimbley, J. B. Annual Meteorlogical Synopsis for the year 1865. Toledo, 0. 



From the Author. 

 Trimoulet, M. Henry. Etat Actuel de la Sericiculture Exotique. Bordeaux, 



1865. From the Author. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. A Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the 



United States. Part 1. Philadelphia. From the Author. 

 Tschudi, J. J. von. Reisen durch Siid America. Erster Band. Leipzig,. 



1866. From the Library Fund. 



Tuckerman, Edward. Lichens of California, Oregon and the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, as far as yej known, with an Appendix. Amherst, 1866. From 



the Author. 

 Tulasne, L. R., and C. Selecta Fungorum Carpologia Junctis studiis edider- 



unt Ludovicus Renatus Tulasne et Carolus Tulasne. 3 vols., Fol.. 



Parisiis, 1861, 1863. From the Library Fund. 

 Turnbull, Wm. P. Birds of East Lothian. Philadelphia. From Rathmell 



Wilson, Esq. 

 Turnerum, Gulielmum. Avium Praecipurum quarura Apud Plinium et 



Aristotelem Mentio est. Contabrigige. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq.. 

 Van Beneden, P. J. Recherches sur la Faune Littorale de Belgique, Crus- 



taces. Bruselles, 1861. From Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Van Bouwel, Dr. Henri de C. Quelques fleurs sur la tomb de Hugo Rothstein. 



Aners, 1866. From the Author. 

 Vander Hoeven, J. Catalogus Craniorum diversarum gentium quae collegit. 



Lugduni. Batavorum, 1860. Presented by Edward Wilson, Esq. 

 Van Lindth, Thos. G. Catalogue du Musee Zoologique. Presented by Edw. 



Wilson, Esq. 

 Van Siebold, C. T. E. Observations quaedam de Salamandris et Tritonibus.. 



Berolini. Presented by Edward Wilson, Esq. 

 Verrill, A. E. Corals and Polyps of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 

 with descriptions of other Pacific Ocean Species. From the Author.. 

 On the Polyps and Corals of Panama, with descriptions of new species. 

 From the Author. 

 Vieillot, M. L. P., et M. P. Oudart, La Galerie des Oiseaux. 2 vols., 8vo. 



Paris, 1825. Presented by Rathmell Wilson, Esq. 

 Vieillot's Fauna Frangaise. 9me Livrs. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq, 

 Vignard, M. Description d'un Cone Nouveau. Presented by Edw. Wilson, 



Esq. 

 Walker, Francis. Insecta Saundersiana. Diptera, Part IV., Coleoptera,, 



29 




450 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Cnrculionidos, Pnrt TI., Ilomoptcra. London, 1858— CO. Presented by 

 Edw. Wilson, Esq. 



Wallich, G. 0. The North Atlantic Sea Bed. Part I. London, 1802. Pre- 

 sented by Edward Wilson, Esq. 



Ward, Henry A. Catalogue of Casts of Fossils from the principal Museums 

 of Europe and America Rochester, 1866. From Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



Warren, Edward S. Notes on Polytechnic Schools in the United States. New 

 York, 18G6. From the Author. 



Wetherill, Chas. M. On the Crystallization of Sulphur, and upon the reac- 

 tion between Sulphide of Hydrogen, Ammonia and Alcohol. From the 

 Author. 

 A brief Sketch of the Modern Theory of Chemical Types. From the 



Author. 

 On the Crystalline Nature of Glass. From the Author. 

 Experiments with the Ammonium Amalgam. From the Author, 



Winchell, Alexander, and Oliver Marcy. Enumeration of Fossils collected in 

 the Niagara Limestone at Chicago, 111., with descriptions of several 

 new species. Cambridge, 1865. From the Author. 



Winchell, Alexander. A Report on the Geological and Industrial Resources 

 of the counties of Antrim, Grand Traverse, Bcnzei and Leelanaw, in 

 the Lower peninsula of Michigan. Ann Arbor, 1866. From the Author. 

 A Plea for Science. From the Author. 



Wood, Rev. J. G. Homes without Hands. New York, 1866. From the 

 Library Fund. 



Wolf, James. Zoological Sketches. Second Series, parts 7 and 8. London, 

 1865. From the Executors of the late Dr. Wilson.^ 



Wyman, Jeffries. Notes on the Cells of the Bee. Cambridge, 1866. From 

 the Author. 



Young, Andrew. The Natural History and Habits of the Salmon. Wick, 

 °1847. Presented by Edw. Wilson, Esq. 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



1866. 



Accipiter 43 



Achljodes 340 



Acilius 348 



Acrasa 243 



Actinocrinus 253 



Actodromas , 97 



Acmaeodera ,348, 383 



Adaraastor 26, 135, 192 



Adelocera 389 



Adranes 108 



Aedilis , 349 



Aegialitis 96 



Aestrelata.. 135, 170 



AestrelateiB 134 



Aethecerus..,,. , 3 49 



Agathidium 370 



Agelaius 10, 90 



Agraulis , 243 



Agrilus... 348, 384 



Alaudidae 79 



Alaus 389 



Aleocharini 347 



Allonyx 349, 359 



Alnus 343 



Amara 347 



Amauris „ 240 



Amblychila 348 



Amblystoraa 300, 311 



Ampelidaj , 71 



Ampelis ,. 71 



Amphicerus 348 



Amphichroum 347, 375 



Amphotis ^ 376 



Anaraesus ., 393 



Anas 98 



Anaspis , 347 



Anatidie 98 



Anectus.. 399 



Anchastus 390 



Ancjlochira 348, 383 



Angttispira , ,.,, 315 



Anisodactylus 347 



Anisotoraa 368 



Anogdus 369 



Anodonta 35 



Anolis 123 



Anomoglossus 347 



Anomphalus...,,. 268 



Anser 98 



Anthobium 347 



Anthophagus 347, 375 



Antbus 67 



Antrostomus 58 



Anura 301 



Apenes 364 



Aphodius 347 



Aploaspis , , 310 



Aquila 49 



Arehibuteo 46 



Ardea... 95 



Ardeidaj 95 



Ardetta 95 



Aromochelys 310 



Arthopalus 349 



Articerus , 108 



Asclera 347 



Aster 343 



Asteroidea 269 



Astragalus 343 



Astrelateoe 26 



Asyndesraus 55 



Athous 391 



Atranus 347 



Attains 347 



Atthis 57 



Aturia 4 



Aulonium 348, 378 



Auriparus T ) 



Babtisia 343 



Balaenidse 297 



Balanus 237 




452 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Bnptolinns 



Barissia 



Bascanion 



Basillscus 



Barbarica 



Batrisus 



Belcninocrinus 



Belodon 



Belonuclius 



Beluga 



Bembidium 



Bernicla 



Berosus 



Bison 



Blapstinus 



Blethisa 



Boa 



Boletophagus 



Botaurus 



Brachyotus 



Brady cellus 



Branch us 



Brentbis 



Bromus 



Bryoporus 



Byturcosomus 



Bubo 



Bucephala 



Bufo 127, 130, 128, 132, 



Bulimus 



Buteo 



Butorides 



347 

 132 

 310 

 123 

 343 

 347 

 251 

 249 

 34H 

 293 

 347 

 98 

 348 

 343 

 348 

 263 

 126 

 347 

 95 

 50 

 347 

 398 

 246 

 343 

 347 

 351 

 49 

 99 

 301 

 315 

 43 



Cachrjx- 124 



Cactus 343 



Calamospiza 84 



Calathus 346 



Callidryas 238 



Callipepla 94 



Callisaurus .. 310 



Callopora 115, 117 



Calochortus 343 



Calosoma 348 



Camelina 343 



Campylorhynchus 77 



Canifa 347 



Canthon .348, 380 



Caprimulgidne 58 



Capra S43 



Carcharodus 335 



Carpophilus 34 



Carpodacus 39, 80 



Cassidix 415 



Castanea 41 



Cathartes 42 



Catherpes 41, 77 



Catops 347 



Caudisona 307, 311,312, 310 



Centrocercus 40, 94 



Centurug 54 



Cei)lialopoda 274 



Cerenopus 349 



Ceropbylum 388 



Ccrthiola 67 



Certhia 79 



Cerlhiidic 78 



Ceryle , 59 



Chaetetcs.... 114, 116 



Chalcolepidlus 348 



Chama'pelela 93 



Cbaradriidae 96 



Chauliognathus 348 



Chaulelasmus 99 



Chelopus 128, 123 



Chevrolatia 370 



Cbionactis 310 



Chlsenius 347 



Cbondestes 84 



Chordeiles 41, 58 



Chroecocephalus 99 



Cbrysoniela 348, 349 



Cbrysomitris 80 



Clcindela 348, 362, 395 



Cinclus , 66 



Cinosternum 123, 128 



Circus 49 



Cis 347 



Cistothorus 78 



Clavigeridse 108 



Claviger 108 



Clerus 347 



Clepsisaurus 249 



Clinidium 347 



Clytus 349 



Cnemidopborus 125, 310, 303, 311 



Coecilia 132 



Colaptes 56 



Colenis 369 



Coleonyx 125, 132, 310 



Collyrio 73 



Conodictyum 275 



Corticaria :. 347 



Colopteridas 59 



Colymbidae 100 



Colostethus 130 



Coluber 319, 128 



Columba 93 



Columbidae 93 



Colymbetes 366 



Colynibus • 100 



Coniopbaoes 128 



Conopbis 318 



Conosoma 347, 374 



Contia 304, 311 



Conlopus 60 



Cookilaria 135 



Copris 381 



Coproporus 347 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



453 



Coronella 128 



Cornus 343 



Corpli^'ra 347 



Corvus 91 



Corvidac 91 



Cory ni bites , 392 



Coturiiiculus 84 



Cotyle 72 



Craxirex 49 



Cremastochilus ^ 347 



Creophilus , 348 



Crinoidea 251 



Criocephilus 349 



Crocfxiilus 123 



Crotophai^a 289 



Crotophytus 302, 311 



Cryptobium , 347 



Cryptophypnus 347, 389, 348 



Cteno-aiira 124 



Cucullffia 261 



Curculionidae 347 



Curvirostra 39 



Cyanocitta 92 



Cyanospiza 89 



Cyaniira 92 



Cyathocrinus 252 



Cychnis 363, 346 



Cycloc-ephala 348, 382 



Cygiuis 98 



Cyphoa ^. .. 347 



Cyllodps * •... 377 



Cynoglossifm 34-! 



Cyrtusa 369 



Gyrtodonta 260 



Cyrton^'x 94 



Cystignatbus 132 



Cytilus ... 347 



Dacne 348 



Dacnidae , G7 



Dafila 9- 



Daption 26,136, 161, 192 



Daptione* 13-i 



Dasytes 349, 359 



Dekiiyia 115 



Deleastor 375 



Delpbinidte 293 



Delpliinus 295 



Dendroc-yj^na 98 



Dendroeca 67 



Dermafemys 128 



Diabrotica 34S 



Diarac.-opora 1 18 



Diapop'iis 310, 31 1 



Dicaslus 347 



Dionu'dea ....175, 187 



Dioniedeidse • 173 



DiplogUjssus 32 I 



Dipsosaurus 310 



Discoderus 348 



Dolabra 260 



Dolichonyx 15 



Dolichosoma 349, 358 



Dorcus 348, 380 



Draha 343 



Dynastes .- 348 



Dyschirius 363 



Dystaxia 385 



Ecliinodermata 251 



'Elauus 48 



Elaphidion 349 



Elaps 127, 128, 307, 311 



Elater 347 



Eleodes 348 



Elmis 380 



Ely mas 343 



Kmbaphion 348 



Emesis .. 248 



Emmenotarsus , 353 



Empidonax 61 



Endectus 347 



Engis 348 



Engystoraa ... . 131 



Epicauta 349 



Epitragus 348 



Epuraea 347 



Eremophila 79 



Eresia 335 



Ereunetes 97 



Erycides 339 



Kschatocrepis 349, 361 



Eticbroma 343 



Eueides 243 



Eupbvyne 310, 311 



Eiiploea 240 



Eurydorus 249 



Earymetopon 248 



Eurytrichaus 347 



Euryusa 373 



Eataenia 305, 311 



Euterpe 244 



Evactinopora 275 



Falagria 347, 370 



Falcinellus 96 



Falco 42 



Fieimia 126, 132 



Fistulipora 119 



Forbesiocrinus 255 



Fornax 387 



Fragaria 343 



Fringillidai 80 



Fiilica 98 



Ftilmanis 25, 26 



Fustiger 108 



Galleruca 348 




454 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Grtllinnjro ^1 



Gamboiia 9^ 



Gftrzotttv .., or) 



Gasteropoda ~ 2G2 



Gastro(ionta 31;') 



Geothlvfis. 69 



Gerrhonotus 312, 321 



Geococcyx 51 



Geotrupc'S 381 



GltUK'idiinn 50 



Globiccpluilus *l 



Goniloba 337, 340 



Goiiiopoda 317 



Graculus 100 



Granatocrinus 257 



Gruidio 95 



Grus 95 



Guiraca 88 



Gyalopium 310 



GyascMtus 348 



Gymnokitta , 91 



Gymausa 373 



Hadroporus 348 



Hadrosaurus 9 



Halcyonidae 59 



HalobaMia 162, 171 



Halodromidse'. 173 



Halisetus 49 



Halodrominoe 188 



Haltica 348 



Haplocnerais 349 



Harpalus 347 



Harpurhynchus 40, G5 



Heliaiithus 343 



Helicidie 315 



Helicodiscus 315 



Heliconius 242 



Hellipora 118 



Helniinthophaga 7o 



Helodertna 303, 311 



Helephorus 366 



Herodias 95 



Hesperiphona 39, 8u 



Heterodon 307, 31 



Himantodes 317 



Himantopus 97 



Hippodaniia 349 



Hirundinidae 72 



Hirundo 72 



Hister 347 



Holbrookia 303, 311 



Homoeusa 373 



Hoplia 347 



Horistonotus 348 



Hyalina 315 



Hydroeharis 348 



Hydrochelidon 99 



Eydroporus 365 



Ilyla 301, 310, 3L1, 313 



Hyperaspis 348 



Hypocwlus 3(i7 



llvi)t>plilu:ua 349 



llypopyrrbus 412 



Uypsigleua 304 



Ictoria 71 



Icteridie 90 



Icterus ,. 91 



Ictiiiia 49 



Miopsar 414 



Inoeeramus 314 



IslUruia 315 



Junco 85 



Juuiperus 343 



Laccophilus 348 



Lachnophorus 348 



Lffilaps 276, 316 



Lajinanctus 124 



Liemophlocus 379 



Lagopus " 94 



Lanit llibranchiala 259 



Laniprohiza ... 394 



Laniidre ''S 



Land* 99 



Larus 27, 99 



Lasconotus 348, 378 



Lathridius ' 347 



Lathrobium 347 



Latbropu3 379 



Leistes 14 



Leptinus 367 



Leptocircus 341 



Leptodira 128 



Leptalis 340 



Lcptura 348 



Lesteva 375 



Leuc'ocheila 315 



Ligyrus 3^2 



Limnebius. 366 



Limonius 347, 391 



Liniosa 98 



Lispinus 376 



Listrus , 349, 356 



Litargus 347 



Lithasia 133 



Lithodytes 132, 323 



Lobonyx 349 



Lophophanes 79 



Lophortyx 39, 94 



Lyciena 244, 332 



Lytta 349 



Macrodactylus 348 



iMacrodon 261 



Macropnus 397 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



455 



Macroramphus 97 



Majaqueus 27, 135, 192 



Mareca 99 



Masticophis 127, 128, 305, 311 



Mastodon 290 



Mastodonsaurus 249 



Mechanitis 241 



Megalosaurus 276 



Megapenthcs. 390 



Megaqniscalus 409 



Megeira 349 



Melandrya 347 



Melanerpes 55 



Melanophila 348 



Melanotus 347, 390 



Mfcleaoris 93 



Melinffia 242 



Meloe 349 



Melopeieia 93 



Melospiza 88 



Melyris 349 



Mergtis , 99 



Mesopeltis 318 



Metoptoma 266 



Melorchus 348 



Micrathene 51 



Mierodoma 269 



Microrhagus 387 



Mimus 65 



Mitrephorus 63 



Molothrus 17, 90 



Monocondyloea 34 



Mordclla 347 



Motacilla 38 



Motacillidie 67 



Murchisonia 274 



Murmidius 376 



Myas ,. 347 



Mycetina 348 



Myiadestes 72 



Myiarchus 59 



Mylodioctes 7l 



Myllaena 347 



Myrmedonia 372 



Myrmica 104, 323 



Naticopsis 268 



Nauclerus , 48 



Nausibuis 379 



Nautilus 4, 274 



Nebria 346, 363 



Nebulipora 115 



Necrophorus 347, 367 



Nectris 135, 192 



Nematocrinus 251 



Nematodes 388 



Nemognatha 349 



Neonymphrt 331, 336 



Nettion 98 



Ninia...... 127, 128 



N soniades 334 



Notoxus 349 



Numenius, 98 



Nyctale 50 



Nyctiardea 95 



Ochodasus 348 



Olibrus 347 



Oligota 372 



Olisthopus 346 



Omus 394 



Oncideres 349 



Onthopbagus ... 347 



Onychocrinus 255 



Ophibolus 305, 310, 311 



Urea , :. 293 



Oroscoptes 55 



Orsodacna 348 



Orthonema 270 



Orthopoda 317 



Ostrea 314 



Ossifraga 25, 31 



Otus 50 



Ovis 343 



Oxytelus 347 



Pagodroma 136, 159 



F^andion 49 



Panyptila 57 



Papilio 248, 341, 331 



Paratenetus 347 



Paridae 79 



Passerculus 84 



Palrobus 347 



Patula 315 



Pelecanus 100 



Pelecanidaj 100 



Pelecanoides 188 



Pentaria 349 



Penthe 347 



Ptrdicidffi 94 



Petrochelidon 72 



Phaenopepla 71 



PhalacTOcoracidaB 100 



Phalaropodidae 97 



Phasianidae 93 



Phellopsis 347 



Phileurus 383 



Pbilonthus 347, 348 



Philothermus 347 



Phimothyra 304, 311 



Phoebastria 187 



Photinus 347 



Phocagna 294 



Phoebetria 186 



Phyllobates 131 



Phrynosoma 302, 310 



Photinus 348 




46G 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Pica 93 



Picicorvus 91 



Picus f>'^ 



Pierls 2H8, 3:U 



Pinus 281), 34H 



Pipilo 41, 80 



Pityoplmgus 377 



Pityopliis 305, 311 



Plftsloicnis 39;^ 



Platyceras 262, 347 



Plalyiuis 34(i 



Platyschisma 27 1 



Plectrophanes 39, 84 



Pleurotomaria 271 



Plistodon 304,311, 321 



Plusiotis 34^- 



Poa 34.5 



PoBcile 7!) 



Podabrus 347, 394 



Podasocys 96 



Podieeps 100 



Podicipidie 100 



Podilymbus 100 



Polioptila 66 



Polyborus 49 



Polyphemopsis. 267 



PoDtoporia 297 



Poccceies 84 



Populns 41, 343 



Poospiza 86 



Potamopsar 415 



Porzana 98 



Priofinus 192 



Procellariidai 169, 172 



Priocella 135 



Prion 102, 167, 172 



Prionus .^ 349 



Pristoscelis 348, 349, 350 



Progne 72 



Prognatha 376 



Prioneae 134, ITI, 162 



Prionocyplioa 347 



Prunus 41 



Pyranga 71 



Psaltriparus 79 



Pseudohyalina 315 



Pseudoprion 162, 164, 111 



Psyllobora 348 



Pteria 259 



Pterodactylus 290 



Pterogasterus 322 



Pterostichus 346, 347, 364 



Ptiliogonidae 7i 



Ptychemys 128 



Pyrgus 334 



Pyrrhuloxia 90 



Pyrocephalus 41, 64 



Quercus 5, 103 



Quorquodula 98 



Qiiisculud 403 



Iladiata 251 



Railidic 98 



llallus ... 98 



liana 127, 301, 311 



Ranula 129 



Recurviroslra 97 



llecurvirostridie 97 



lU'gnius 66 



IMiaQtisteui 134 



Rlipgnops .. 128 



Rhinandrus 400 



lUiinochilus : 304 



Rhinopora 119 



Rbizophagu^ 377 



Rbodocrinus 254 



Rbogoessa 285 



Rhonibodera 364 



Rbyaco{)bilus 98 



Kbylidodon 249 



Ribes 343 



Rosa 343 



Rubus 343 



Sagmatias 294 



Salix 41, 343 



Salpinctes 77 



Saprinus 348 



Sauria 302 



^Saxicava 237 



Saxicolidoe 66 



Sayornis 60 



8capbidurus 417 



Scapbiopus 312 



Sceloporus 124, 310, 311 



Schizogenius 346 



Schfjenaster ,. 259 



Scleroporus 303, 322 



Scolecopbagus 90, 412 



Seolopacidcfi. 97 



Scolopax 38, 237 



Scolecophis 320 



Scops 49 



Scotophilns ■... 287 



Scydmaenus 347 



Scymnus... 348 



Seiurus. 71 



Selnsphorus 57, 365 



Sericosomus 347 



Sesleria 343 



Sialia 66 



Sibbaldius 297 



Silpha 367, 348 



Sipbonops 129 



Sitopbagus 349 



Sitta 78 



Sisymbiium ..... . = 343 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



467 



Smilisca 127 



Solidago 343 



SoDora 310 



Sorbus 34;^ 



Spatula 99 



Sphaerodactjlus 125 



Spea 301, 311 



Spiraea 3-13 



Spizella 87 



Sphenotheca 349 



Spelerpes 132 



Sphyrapicus 52 



Stanley! 343 



Steganocrinus 253 



Steganopus 97 



Stelgidopteryx 72 



Stenolopus 347 



Stenorhina 127 



Stenus 347 



Sterna 99 



Stethon 386 



Strategus 348, 382 



Stictocranius 374 



Strix 49 



Strobila 315 



Stromatocerium 1 18 



Strotocrinus 253 



Sturnella 23, 91 



Succinea 315 



Sunius 347 



Synbathocrinus 251 



Sylviidae GG, 67 



Syraphemia 97 



Synchita 379 



Synchloe 248, 336 



Tachys 347, 348 



Tachyporus 374 



Tachycineta 72 



Tanagridffi 71 



Tantalus 96 



Tantalidas 96 



Tantilla 126, 320 



Tanymecus 349 



Tetradium 114 



Telephorus 347 



Terebratula 3 



Teredo 3 



Terias 238 



Tetraonyx 349 



Tetraopes 349 



Thalassoica 25, 29 



Thalassarche 187 



Tbecla 332, 337, 338 



Thecadactylus 125 



Thiellus 192 



Tbryoihorus 78 



Thrasops 127 



Tbroscus 347 



Todus 38 



Tomicus 348 



Trematopora 118 



Tribracbys 348 



Trichas 69 



Trichina 9 



Trichochrous 351 



Trimorphodon 310 



Trocbita 270 



Trlpr.on 127 



Triplax 348 



Tringoides 98 



Trocbilus 56 



Troglodytidse 77 



Trogon 37 



Trogopbloeus , 347 



Troglodytes 78 



Trogosita 348 



Tropidodipsas 127 



Tropidonotus 310, 311 



Trox 348 



Tryngites 98 



Turdidaa 64 



Turdus 64 



Tylosis 349 



Typblops 125, 326 



Tyrannus , 59 



Uma 310 



Unio ...33, 133 



Urodela 300 



Uta 303, 310, 311 



Vaccinium 343 



Vallonia.... 315 



Vespertilio ! 280 



Vireo 41, 73 



Vireonidaj 73 



Vitis 6 



Xantbocephalus 90 



Xantbolinus 347 



Xantusia 312 



Xenosaurus 322 



Xanthornus 38 



Xenorbipis 384 



Xjloryctes 348 



Zanaidura 93 



Zonoiricbia 84 



Zopberus 348 




GENERAL INDEX. 



Allen, Dr. H , Notoa on the Veaper- 

 tilionul;© of Tropical America, 279. 



Anderson, Rev. M. B., Election as cor- 

 respondent, 110. 



Baxter, Dr. .1. H., Election as corres- 

 pondent, 107. 



Beadle, Rev. E. R., Election as mem- 

 ber, 3. 



Berthoud, E. L., Description of Hot 

 Springs of Soda Creek, 342. 



Blake, Rev. Jos., Election hs corres- 

 pondent, 10. 



Bland, Jas. H. B., Election as mem- 

 ber, 2. 



Boardman, Rev. Geo. D., Election as 

 member, 107. 



Butcher, Dr. Henry B., Election as 

 member, 238. 



Calhoun, A. R., Election as member, 

 345. 



Caligny, M. de, Election as correspon- 

 dent, 238. 



Collier, D. C, Election as correspon- 

 dent, 10. 



Carr, Col. Robt., Announcement of 

 death of, 106. 



Carpenter, H. C. Election as member, 

 238. 



Carter, L. R,, Election as correspon- 

 dent, 110, 



Cass, Hon. Lewis, Announcement of 

 death of, 237. 



Cassin, John, Fasti Ornithologio, No. 

 II. : 9, 35 ; A Study of the Icteridae, 

 10 ; Remarks on Crotophaga Ani, 

 289 ; On Kitchen Middens at Atlan- 

 tic City, 290 ; A Second Study of 

 the Icteridse, 403. 



Childs, Geo. W., Election as member, 3. 



Clinton, Geo. W., Election as corres- 

 pondent, 7. 



Cope, E. D., Remarks on a species of 

 Aturia found in the Marl Pits at 

 Glassboro, N. J., 3; Remarks on 

 skull of a Black Fish (Globicepha- 

 lus), 7 ; On the structure and dis- 

 tribution of the Genera of Arciferous 

 Anura, 107 ; Fourth contribution to 

 the Herpetologjf of Tropical Ameri- 

 ca, 107, 123 ; Remarks on extinct 

 vertebrates of the Mesozoic Red 



Sandstone, 249 ; Remarks on Lae- 

 laps Aquilunius, 27 (i ; Third con- 

 tribittion to the history of the Balae- 

 nidae and Delphinidae, 290, 29 '> ; Sy- 

 nopsis of the Hatrachia and Rpptilia 

 of Arizona, 290, 300; Remarks on 

 the Mesozoic Sandstone of Pennsyl- 

 vania, 290 ; Fifth contiibution to 

 the Herpetology of Tropical Ameri- 

 ca, 341, 317 ; On Anatomical pecu- 

 liarities of some Dinosauria, 316. 



Correspondence of the Academy for 

 1865, 422. 



Cowan, F., Election as correspondent, 

 250. 



Cones, Dr. Elliot, A critical Review of 

 the Family Procellaridae : Part III., 

 embracing the Fulniarese, 3, 25 ; A 

 List of Birds of Fort Whipple, Ari- 

 zona, 7, 9, 39; Monograph of the 

 ProcellaridsB : Parts IV. and V., 134, 

 172. 



Crawford, Gen. S. W., Election as 

 member, 279. 



Crozer, J. P., Announcement of death 

 of, 106. 



Daniel, W. C, On the introduction of 

 Shad into the Alabama River, 108, 

 236. 



Davis, Hon. Henry Winter, Announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Deal, Dr. Lemuel J., Election as mem- 

 ber, 107. 



Dixon, Dr. W. C, Election as mem- 

 ber, 291. 



Donations to the Museum, 427. 



Donations to the Library, 431. 



Du Bois, Prof. Alf., Election as cor- 

 respondent, 107. 



Dreer, H. A., Election as member, 110. 



Durburrow, Charles B., Election as 

 member, 10. 



Election of Officers for 1867, 420. 



Election of members and correspon- 

 dents during 1866, 421. 



Election of Standing Committees, 3. 



Evans, R. E., Announcement of death 

 of, 106. 



Evans, Wm., Jr., Election as mem- 

 ber, 7. 




GENERAL INDEX. 



459 



Febegpr, C. C, Election as member, 

 110. 



Fenimore, Jason L., Election as mem- 

 ber, 238 



Figaniere. Alf. de, Election as mem- 

 ber, 10. 



Fiot, Aug., Announcement of death of, 

 106. 



Ford, John, Election as member, 345. 



Frazer, Robt., Election as member, 2. 



French, W. H., Election as correspon- 

 dent, 238. 



Garrett, P. C, Election as member, 7. 

 Gilbert, Dr. Wm. K., Election as mem- 

 ber, 110. 

 Gould, Dr. A. A., Announcement of 



death of, 289. 

 GraefF, John E., Election as member, 7. 

 Graham, Col. J. D., Announcement of 



death of, 2. 

 Grant, W. S., Election as member, 345. 

 Grav, Robt., Election as correspondent, 



10. 

 Guier, Dr. Geo. Election as member, 



238. 

 Grier, Dr. Wm. P., Announcement of 



death of, 7. 

 Gr'^^th, R. E., Announcement of death 



0., 105. 



Haddock, Dan'l, Jr., Election as mem- 

 ber, 110. 



Hartshorne, Chas., Election as mem- 

 ber, 7. 



Hay den, Dr. F. V., Remarks on the 

 Pipestone quarry of North-eastern 

 Dakota, 291 ; On the chalk deposits 

 on the Missouri River, 314 ; On a 

 Mastodon tooth, 316. 



Hays, Dr. Isaac, Remarks on Trichina 

 spiralis, 249. 



Heerman, Dr. A. L., Announcement 

 of death of, 2. 



Heintzelraan. J. A., Election as mem- 

 ber, 10. 



Hoopes, Josiah, Election as member, 

 106. 



Horn, Dr. Geo. H., Election as mem- 

 ber, 250 ; Descriptions of new Cole- 

 optera of Central America, 345, 397 ; 

 Descriptions of some new Cicinde- 

 lida3 from the Pacific Coast, 345, 394. 



Houston, Edw. L., Election as mem- 

 ber, 345, 



Huston, Sam'l, Election as member, 

 110. 



Hutchinson, J. P., Announcement of 



Hunt, Clemmons, Election as mem- 

 ber, 10. 



Jones, Wm. F, Election as member, 3. 



Kehmle,W. E., Election as member, 10. 

 Kenderdine, Dr. R. S., Election as 



member, 110. 

 Kennicott, Robt., Announcement of 



death of, 315. 



Lea, Isaac, Reading of extract of letter 

 from Prof. Courtland, 7 ; Descrip- 

 tion of twelve Unionidge from South 

 America, 9, 33 ; Notes on some 

 members of the Feldspar Family, 

 107, 110 ; Description of five new 

 species of Unio, 107, 133 ; Descrip- 

 tion of two new species of Lithasia, 

 107, 133. 



LeConte, Dr. J. L., Remarks on the 

 subfamily Clavigeridae, -108 ; List of 

 Coleoptera collected in Lycoming 

 Co., 345, 346; List of Coleoptera 

 collected near Fort Whipple, 345, 



348 ; Revision of the Dasytini, 345, 



349 ; Additions to the Coleopterous 

 Fauna of the United States, No. 1, 

 345, 361. 



Leeds, Albert R., Election as member, 

 345. 



Leidy, Dr. Jos., Observations on Indi- 

 an Relics, 1 ; Remarks on a phalanx 

 of an extinct reptile, 9 ; Remarks on 

 cancer of liver in Turkey, and on 

 Trichina, 9 ; Remarks on human 

 relics at Petite Anse, 109 ; Remarks 

 on fossils presented June 5th, 237 ; 

 Exhibition of a large Coccus, 289 ; 

 Exhibition of teeth of Mastodon 

 ohioticus, 290 ; Observations on the 

 Kitchen Middens of Cape Henlopen, 

 290 ; On Fossil Bones from Mau- 

 vaises Terres, 345. 



Lewis, Chas. S., Election as member, 

 106. 



Lindley, Dr. J. L., Announcement of 

 death of, 2. 



Lincecum, G., Extract from letter to Mr. 

 Durand on Ants of Texas, 4 ; In re- 

 lation to certain species of Grape?, 

 6 ; On the small black erratic Ant, 

 101 ; On the habits of the Agricul- 

 tural Ant of Texas, 314, 323. 



Little, Amos R., Ejection as member, 

 10. 



Lyman, Benj. Smith, Remarks on a 

 Slickenside found at Plymouth, Pa., 

 107. 




460 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Mftokoiiz.le, Dr. R. Shelton, Election as 

 lUHiul) r, H>. 



Miun'g.uilt, G.ibr., Eleotion as corres- 

 poua»Mit, 290. 



MaybuiYv, Dr. \Vm., Election as mem- 

 b.>r, mil. 



Meehan, Tlioa., Obsprvations on Finns 

 punjjtMis, &o., 2iS0 ; On the Period 

 and Ratio of the Annual increase in 

 the circumference of Trees, 2!)(), 292: 

 On the consumption of force bj 

 plants in overcoming gravitation, 

 34(), 401 



Meek, F. B., Contributions to the Pa- 

 IsBOUtology of Illinois and other 

 Western States, 251. 



Meigs, Dr. J. A., Observations on the 

 Cranial Forms of the North Ameri 

 can Indians, 107, 197. 



Michen»'r, E., On the Mollusca of Lan- 

 caster Co., 315. 

 Moore, J. G., Election as member, 250, 



Nebinger, Dr. A., Election as member, 

 250. 



Ogden, C. Q., Election as member, 250, 

 Ord, Geo., Announcement of death of, 



2. 

 Otis, Dr. Geo. A., Election as corres- 

 pondent, 238. 



Parker, J. B., Election as member, 106. 



Parrish, Jas. C, Election as member, 

 10. 



Pearsall, Robert, Announcement of 

 death of, 2. 



Poulson, Chas. A., Announcement of 

 death of, 7. 



Proceedings, presentation of the num- 

 ber for Nov. and Dec, 1805, 7. 



Reakirt, E. L., Election as member, 2. 

 Reakirt, Tryon, Election as member, 



107 ; Description of new species of 



Diurnal Lepidoptera, 237, 238, 317, 



331. 

 Reeve, Lov^ll, Announcement of death 



of, 7. 

 Report of Librarian, 418. 

 Report of the Curators, 418. 

 Rhoads, Jos. R., Election as member, 



110. 

 Riddell, Dr J. L., Announcement of 



death of, 2. 

 Roberts, S. R., Election as member, 



238. 

 Rogers, Prof. H. D., Announcement of 



death of, 237. 



Rominger, Dr. Carl, Observations on 



C/hiutHtes and some related Genera, 



101, 113. 

 Ruschenberger, Dr.W. S. W., Remarks 



on fossil fish scales from Vicksburg, 



Miss., 107. 



Sellers, Wm., Election as member, 

 107. 



Shimer Henry, On a new genus of 

 Homoptera, 3 15. 



Shober, Sam'l L., Election as mem- 

 ber, 250. 



Sinclair, Wm., Election as correspon- 

 dent, 10. 



Slack, Dr. J. II., Observation on fos- 

 sils from Smoky Hill River, Col. 

 Ter., 2 ; Exhibition of living speci- 

 mens of Menopoma, 299. 



Slay maker, S. E., Election as member, 

 10. 



Smith, Thos. G., Election as member, 3. 



Standing Committees for 186u, 3. 



Stauffer, Jacob, Election as correspon- 

 dent, 107. 



Stellwagen, Dr. Thos. C, Election as 

 member, 10. 



Stille, Dr. Henry, Election as member, 

 110. 



Taylor, T. Clarkson, Election as Tjaem- 

 ber, 110. 



Thomas, Dr. Jos., Election as mem- 

 ber, 105. 



Tryon, Ed. K., Jr.. Election as mem- 

 ber, 107. 



Turner, J., Election as member, 10. 



Turnpenny, J. C, Election as mem- 

 ber, 345. 



Vandyke, Dr. E. B., Election as mem- 

 ber, 290. 



Weber, Dr. R. L., Election as mem- 

 ber, 107. 



Walton, Jos., Election as member, 1C7. 



Westcott, Chas. S., Election as mem- 

 ber, 10. 



While, Wm. R., Election as member, 7. 



Wilson, Rathmell, Letter regarding 

 Dr. Thos. B. Wilson's legacy to the 

 Academy, 2. 



Wolgamuth, Francis A., Announce- 

 ment of death of, 315. 



Wood, E Iw. R., Election as member, 7. 



Woodward, Geo. M., Election as mem- 

 ber, 3. 



Wyeth, F. H., Election as member, 290, 












vinuiiMUi :»iLUT. JAN 251971 



^H . Academy of natural science; 



1 \S o^ Philadelphia 



A 2 \ ^ Proceedings 



,.13 C^ 



h Medical 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





