HISTORY AND BIOLOGY OF PEAR BLIGHT.
BY J. C. ARTHUR.
To the American orchardist or nurserj'man the name of pear blight, or fire blight, as it is often called, brings to mind a serious malady of fruit trees, which has been the theme of incessant discussion by horticultural writers and speakers since the earliest days of fruit culture in this country.
The most marked featui'es of the disease were admirably characterized bj^ William Coxe^ at the beginning of the present century, in the following words : " That species of blight which is sometimes called the fire blight, frequently destroys trees in the fullest apparent vigor and health, in a few hours, turning the leaves suddenly brown, as if they had passed through a hot flame, and causing a morbid matter to exude from the pores of the bark, of a black ferruginous appearance ; this happens through the whole course of the warm season, more frequently in weather both hot and moist."
The disease occurs from Canada and Minnesota on the north, to Georgia and Louisiana on the south, and from the eastern limit of the RockjMountains to the Atlantic ocean.
No part of this vast extent of country is exempt, although it does not appear with the same frequency and power in all localities, and is usually rai^e in the immediate vicinity of the sea-coast.
So far as at present known, it is exclusively confined to this part of North America.
This is partly inferred from the absence of any distinct mention of such a disease in the horticultural literature of other regions, and partl^^ from direct testimony.
Prof. Dwindle, late of the University of California, has told the writer that it does not occur on the Pacific coast.
Dr. De Bary,^ whose word carries great weight, says, after giving a brief description of the disease, "this phenomenon is not to my knowledge known in Europe."
A long account of the disease has been published by Dr. Wakker,^ in a gardening journal of Holland, in order to learn if it occurs in that country, but up to the present 1 Cultivation of Fruit Trees, Philadelphia, 1817, p. 174.
^ Vorlesungen liber Bacterien, 1885, p. 137.
3 Nederlandsche Tuinbouwblad, II (Jan. 9, 1886), p. 9. time no one has intimated any knowledge of it.
In a recent letter Dr. Masters, editor of the Gardeners' Chronicle of England, says that no such disease has been recognized in the British Isles.
The testimony of one of our own horticulturists.
Prof. Budd,' of Iowa, who is familiar with the disease in this countrj'', and has inspected the orchards of the old world far into Russia, is especially valuable ; he says " no trace of blight of pearor apple-trees can be seen in Europe."
From these statements, and the inferences to be drawn from other sources, it appears highly probable that the disease does not extend to Europe.
An account of the principal diseases of fruit-trees of New Zealand, by Prof. T. Kirk,^ has been published, which describes a disease of the pear known in that country aspire blight, due to a fungus, and another of the apple, the American blight, due to an insect.
No true pear blight, as recognized in the United States, is mentioned, and in a recent communication the author has definitely stated that it is not known in the colony.
Whether it occurs in other parts of the world is not yet ascertained, if some slight testimony regarding its absence in Japan be excepted.
It is only within a year or so that Eui'opean writers have become aware of its existence, and this only through American authors.
It is remarkable that a disease of such virulence and so easily transported should not have found its wa}' across the ocean, when one remembers the number of destructive plant maladies that America has ah'eady involuntarily foisted upon European cultivators.
It will not be profitable to speculate much at this time upon the reasons for this, but we may suppose that the small exportation of American fruit-trees, or of scions,^ has been a factor in keeping it in check.
The influence of climate, and some less evident factors, need not be discussed in this connection.
Amount of Loss.
It has already been intimated that pear blight is a frequent and destructive affection ; it will tend to give a fairer appreciation of the subject if it be stated how frequent and how destructive it is.
Coxe,* as early as 181T, in the oldest pomological work by an American author, says it " frequently ^ Trans.
Minn. Hort.
Soc.
for 1883, p. 281.
* Fruit Blights and Diseases of Fruit-trees in New Zealand, 1885. '
For an account of the destruction of stored scions by blight, see Rep. Hort.
Soc.
of Mich, for 1881, p. 137.
* L. c, p. 174. destroys trees in the fullest apparent vigor and health, in a few hours ; I have in twenty years lost upwards of fifty trees."
The years 1826 and 1832 were notable in horticultural circles for the increased prevalence of the disease; but it was in 1844 that the most widespread and fatal epidemic, that the country has yet known, occurred.
Few, if any, pear-orchards escaped at that time without the pai'tial or total loss of many trees, and some orchards, even large ones, were quite destroj-ed.
The following year the epidemic was much lighter, and had fully disappeared by 1846.
Although it had subsided as an epidemic, it still occurred in localities here and there, and has continued to do so until the present time.
Judging from the communications in the horticultural press, the whole country, or various sections of it independently, have been subject at various times to epidemic visitations, but none have equaled in severity that of the memorable year of 1844.
It is often maintained that a certain periodicitj' of occurrence is observable, the periods usually being placed at five, ten, or twenty years.
A careful examination of the literature of the subject, however, gives little support to these views, and makes it more probable that the intervals are irregular, and that they vary for different sections of the country.
The year of maximum prevalence may or may not be preceded by one in which the disease is noticeably common, but it is quite invariably followed by a year or two of successive decadence.
In the absence of exact statistics, which it has not been practicable to obtain, something of the important nature of the disease may be gathered from the statements of horticultural writers and the phraseology which they employ in speaking of it.
The renowned horticulturist, A. J.
Downing,' called it the "monstrous malady of the pear."
Chas.
R. Baker ^ saj^s it is " the worst malady with which the cultivator of the pear-tree has to contend."
In southern Pennsylvania "the'pear is so generally destroyed by the blight," according to J.
B. Garber^ writing in 1850, "that very few trees are to be found."
At Philadelphia, however, the disease has been rarely observed, according to 1 Horticulturist, vol.
i, 1846, p. 62. '
Practical and scientific Fruit Culture.
Boston, 1866, p. 476.
U. S. Patent Office Report for 1850, pt.
ii, p. 418.
Thomas Meelian.^ T. T. Lyons,^ of Michigan, states as the opinion of many cultivators in that State, that the pear-tree cannot be grown with financial success on account of the blight.
Illinois has always been much subject to the disease, and Prof J.
B. Turner,^ in 1868, gave expression to the genei'al feeling of his region by describing it as " that deadly Upas of the pear-tree known par excellence as the pear-blight."
In 1882 Dr. J. L. Hallum,^ speaking for southern Illinois, says, " pears have failed, utterly failed, so that none are now cultivated for market, the blight has destroyed the trees branch and root," and S. G. Minkler,^ in the northern part of the State, observes that it is a very uncommon thing to see pear-trees without dead branches or other signs of the ravages of blight.
Wm.
A. Nourse,^ of the same State, is led to " doubt if one-tenth of the pear-trees tliat are set, live ten years," on account of this one destructive agent.
Geo.
M. Dewey ,^ of Missouri, says that " with good cultivation and rich soil the pear generally dies of blight before the eighth year."
In Minnesota the severe climate has not permitted the cultivation of pears, and almost the only apples grown for many years were the hardy crab-apples.
The latter have been rapidly improved, and together with the hardier varieties of the common apple would now furnish this part of the country with an abundant supply of fruit, were it not for this same disease, which elsewhere most conspicuously preys upon the pear-tree.
E. H. S. Dartt ^ held the opinion in 1874 that the severity of winter was not so much to be dreaded as the ravages of blight.
He had at that time one or two thousand trees affected.
Dr. P. A. Jewell,^ up to 1876, had lost ten thousand Tetofsky apple-trees by it.
P. G. Gould '" says that " only for this scourge every family living on a farm in Minnesota could have a supply of apples."
1 Rep. Penn.
Fruit-Grower's Soc.
for 1877, p. 77.
2 Rep. Pomol.
Soc.
of Mich., for 1878, p. 368. '
Trans.
111.
Horfc.
Society for 1868, p. 43.
* Same for 1882, p. 118.
* Same for 1880, p. 30.
Trans.
111.
Hort.
Soc.
for 1880, p. 63. '
Proc.
Mo.
Hort.
Soc.
for 1870, p. 18.
8 Trans.
Minn. Hort.
Soc.
for 1874, p. 32.
'Samefor 1876, p. 73. '"
Same for 1884, p. 127.
Citations enough have doubtless been given, although several pages of equally strong ones might be added, to show that fruitgrowers, who have the best opportunities for observation, consider it a disease greatly to be dreaded and one of special economic importance.
Other sections of the country, notably those of Ohio, western New York and Georgia, could furnish equally important proof of these propositions.
All that is desired in this connection, however, is to give those not familiar with the subject some idea of the disease and its effects as ordinarily observed Early Records.
The oldest mention of the disease, that gives a good and reasonably full description of it, is in Coxe's work on fruit-trees, bearing the date of 1817.
The manner of the author leaves no doubt that it was well known at that time, and the reference to his losses during twenty years makes it reasonably certain that he had observed the disease as early as the opening of the century.
The earliest notice, however, which has yet come to hand, is in a letter written by Wm.
Denning,^ describing the disease in apples, pears, and quinces.
He speaks of first observing it on the Highlands of the Hudson in 1780.
There is no interest, however, in tracing chronologically the various notices found in different publications, for without exception they have the tone of treating a familiar theme, and show no evidence that the disease in the first part of the century was in any respect different from to-day.
Conjectures Regarding its Cause.
A brief treatment of this topic will be all that is required for the purposes of this paper ; and only those hypotheses will be touched upon which received such careful presentation as to attract the favorable attention of the public.
Few writers appear to ascribe the disease to a single agency, but regard it as resulting from several causes, either acting together or brought about by dissimilar circumstances.
Little discrimination is made between predisi)Osing conditions and active aoents.
In fact sharply defined treatment could not be expected when all was conjecture, and when the shrewdest observers did not hesitate to avow that after years of loss under all kinds of experimentation, and after interminable discussions, the cause still lay shrouded in impenetrable obscurit3^ 1 Trans.
Soc.
for Prom, of Agric, vol.
15, 1794, p. 219.
Coxe,^ who has had many followers, thought that the hot rays of the sun when acting through a misty or saturated atmosphere deranged the vital activities of the plant and brought about the disease.
He considered old varieties more subject to it, on account of having lower constitutional vigor, than new varieties, of which the St. Germain and Seckel were respectively conspicuous instances.
The insect theory, as it was called, was promulgated at this time.
It was started upon firm facts by the discovery of a small brown beetle, about two millimeters long, which penetrated the branch, and caused the part beyond to die.
The beetle received the name of Scolylus pyri Peck, now changed to Xyleborus pyri Pk., and is still known as the blight beetle.
The effect of its attack appears to the casual observer similar to that of the true blight the branch in June or July rapidly withers, and the leaves and fruit turn black.
The beetles being minute and inconspicuous escape attention, and the ftict that the branch does not die below a definite point is sometimes overlooked.
It is not difficult to see how many persons came to connect this comparatively rare affection with the common fire blight, and to believe that insects of some sort were to be held accountable for all their supposed minuteness and wary habits being sufficient reasons for the failure to find them, and the spread of the disease along the limbs of a tree being ascribed to a poison which the insects were supposed to emit.
Among the prominent supporters of this view was the " Genesee Farmer," ^ published at Rochester, N. Y., with Patrick Barry as the horticultural editor.
It has not, however, been so strongly advocated for the last decade or two.
The next hypothesis that attracted general attention was known as the frozen-sap theory.
This was based upon the supposition that the autumn or winter freezing of unripe wood produced a poison which the moving currents of sap the next spring and summer distributed, causing the death of the parts.
It was first published in 1844 b^^ Rev.
H. W. Beecher,^ of Indiana, in a long and able article in " Hovey's Magazine."
In the following j^ear 1 L. c, p. 175.
^ See Genesee Farmer, vol.
vii, 1846, p. 216; vol.
viii, 1847, pp.
122, 218, etc.
^ Magazine of Horticulture, vol.
x, p, 441. it was independently elaborated by A. J.
Downing' in Ms work on Fruits and Fruit-trees of America, who first called it the frozen-sap theory, and who is usually spoken of as the author of it.
This view has probably had more firm adherents than any other, as it explained many phenomena connected with the disease in a fairly satisfactory manner.
It was especially well received in the western States.
The next hypothesis which gained the attention of the public was the fungus theory.
Its first successful presentation was in 1863 by Dr. J. H. Salisbury ,2 who figured the fungus which he decided to be the specific cause of this kind of blight, and ventured to give it a name, although he was sadly in error in most that he did.
Thomas Meehan,^ editor of the " Gardener's Monthly," has ably championed this explanation, and done much to keep it in favor.
In 1875, Dr. J. G. Hunt,* by Mr. Meehan's request, undertook a microscopical examination of blighted pear-twigs, and confirmed the opinion that it was due to a fungus, without, however, deciding upon the specific character of it.
Blighted trees often attract attention immediately after a thunder storm, and from this and other circumstances the belief that the malady is due to electricity has gained many adherents, but the argument has not had a full and connected presentation.
The last hypothesis of historical importance is the bacterial theory.
Although hinted at by a number of horticultural writers, yet the credit of it is due to Prof. T. J. Burrill,^ who in 1878 distinctly stated his belief that the cause resides with the bacteria which he found in great abundance in the tissues of afiected branches.
In 1880 he performed a series of experiments^ by inoculating healthy branches with the juices of diseased ones, the results of which were presented to the American Association at its Boston meeting, thus first bringing the subject clearly to the Fruits and Fruit-trees of America, p. 594 ; same, 2d Revision by Chas.
Downing, p. 646.
=* Ohio Agric.
Rep. for 1863, p. 450.
^Proc.
Amer.
Pomol.
Soc.
for 1867, p. 59 ; and elsewhere.
* Gardener's Monthly, vol.
xvii, 1875, p. 245.
^ Trans.
111.
Hort.
Soc.
for 1878, p. 80. "
Proc.
Amer.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., vol.
xxix, 1880, p. 583 ; Rep. of 111.
Industrial Univ., for 1880, p. 62 ; Trans.
111.
Hort.
Soc.
for 1880, p. 157 ; Amer.
Naturalist, vol.
xv, 1881, p. 527. attention of the scientific world.
Although this was now the popular hypothesis, it cannot be said to have received more substantial credence than those which had gone before, either from the horticulturists or the scientists.
The experimental results gained b}^ Prof. Burrill were confirmed and extended by the writer ^ during 1884, by means of a similar series of inoculations.
Of the multitude of minor hypotheses which were put forth in explanation of phenomena connected with pear-blight, and which were variously received, and of all degrees of plausibilit}^, it is Impossible to speak at this time without carrying this paper to undue length.
Beginning of Experimental Research.
The question of the cause of pear-blight was finally removed from the domain of speculation to that of established fact by a series of crucial experiments performed by the writer ^ a year ago, and recorded in a paper before the American Association at the Ann Arbor meeting.
These consisted in showing that the bacteria when removed from the tree and passed through a series of artificial cultures would generate the disease when again introduced into the tree, and that the juices accompanying blight when cleared of bacteria by filtration will not produce the disease.
Having now come to a firm basis for scientific advancement, let us look over the historical ground again to see if some one did not hit upon the true explanation of the disease, although he may not have been aware of its sisfnificance.
In a connection like this, facts derived from experiment have greater weight than statements of opinion ; the latter acquire importance in proportion as the}'^ are logically derived from correct and close observation.
Bearing this in mind, we need not give much heed to the not uncommon inference that pear-blight was in some way intimately related to the epidemic diseases of man, e. g. cholera.
This view is said to have been quite frequently entertained in the early part of the century, but was not sanctioned by the learned.
The.
use of such phrases as " first cousin to the cholera," " a species of vegetable ferment," etc., surely does not entitle the author to any priority in way of discovery.
1 Rep. N. Y. Agric.
Exper.
Station for 1884, p. 357.
^ Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci., vol.
xxxiv, 1885, p. 295 ; Bot.
Gazette, vol.
X, 1885, p. 343 ; Gardeners' Chronicle, vol.
xxiv.
1885, p. 586.
22 We turn from these slight hints to the record of an experiment in inoculation, made in 1845 and published the following year.
We are told by S. B. Gookins/ of Indiana, that visiting Mr. Ragan (the same person who furnished Mr. Beecher with many of the facts on which he founded the theory to which we have already referred) he was shown a thrift}' young pear-tree in the nurser}', which had been " inoculated " " by way of experiment " with " the sap of a blighted tree," " a few days previous."
" He made an incision about three feet from the ground, lifted the bark as in the process of budding, and injected a small quantity of the diseased sap."
" We found the leaves of the patient changing color, and emitting that peculiar odor which is always present in cases of blight, and upon appl3'ing the knife, the inner bark was found to be black from the root to the top, while nothing of the kind appeared elsewhere in the nursery."
This admirable experiment was combined with a no less admirable interpretation of the cause of blight.
The writer cites facts to disprove the hypothesis of Mr. Beecher, and then says : " I strongly incline to the belief, that the pear-blight is an epidemic, that it prevails like other epidemics, and will pass off like them.
The atmosphere is, I believe, generally admitted to be the medium by which they prevail, and are carried from place to place.
What that subtle principle may be, which pervades our atmosphere, by which infection is retained and transmitted, human science has not discovered ; but that such a principle exists is sufficiently obvious from its effects."
This clearly conceived elucidation of the matter could onlj' have been improved by a knowledge of the germ theory of disease, and when we remember the date at which it was uttered, we do not feel that the writer was guilty of any lack of acuteness in not perceiving the relation which we now know to exist between his theory and his facts.
He seems to have been a modest man, for he only signs his initials, and does not defend his views when the editor, A. J. Downing,^ opposes the opinion that " an epidemic conveyed by the atmosphere is too slightly supported by facts to weigh at all against the observations of cultivators," which " strongly point to the freezing of the sap as the cause."
' Horticulturist, vol.
i, 1846, p. 253. '
Horticulturist, vol.
i, 1846, p. 255.
Another interesting experiment was performed by Dr. E. S. Hull,^ of Illinois, in 1868.
Having received some blighted apple twigs from a correspondent, he cut pieces from them with which he " inoculated several succulent pear shoots by tying in the pieces as in budding."
This was done the middle of June, and no observation taken for thirty-four days, when the blight was found to have extended several inches into the healthy tissues.
From this he very justly concludes that the blight in apples and pears is but one disease, but seems to take it for granted that in both it is due to " vitiated sap."
The fact that the disease may be transferred to healthy trees by the pruning knife has been observed by several persons.
H. Wendell,^ of New York, says in 1849, "I am also careful that the blade of the knife is perfectly clean, and that it has none of the sap of a diseased tree adhering to it, because I have known many valuable trees destroyed by having been inoculated in this manner."
Prof. Turner,^ of Illinois, makes a similar statement : " I found that this disease is exceedingly contagious, for if I used my knife to prune a healthy tree after having used it in shaving the diseased one, I communicated the disease to that tree."
Prof. Burrill first observed the bacteria of blight in 1877,^ but did not recognize them as such till the following year,^ when he avowed his belief that they were the cause of the disease.
His first inoculation experiments were made in 1880, as already stated.
In 1882 he characterized the organism under the name of 3Iicrococcus amylovorus.^ Description of Micrococcus amylovorus Bur.
The form of this species of bacteria is very constant, under all conditions.
The single cells are from oval to roundish-ovoid, and only vary by slight changes in the ratio between their length and breadth 1 Trans.
111.
Hort.
Soc.
for 1868, p. 320.
2 U. S. Patent Office Rep. for 1849, pt.
11, p. 446.
3 Trans.
111.
Hort.
Soc.
for 1878, p. 81.
* Same for 1877, page 114.
^ Same for 1878, page 79.
^ The Bacteria (a reprint from Rep. of 111.
Industrial Univ.
for 1882), p. 42 ; Amer.
Naturalist, vol.
vii, 1883, p. 319.
In the last publication, by a typographical error, tiie name was made to read M. amylivorus, a mistake wliich has been copied into other works see Grove's Bacteria and Yeast Fungi, London, 1884, p. 10.
(PI.
Ill, figs.
1, 2, 6).
They are 1 to 1;^ ,a long, by i to | ,a broad, and quite colorless.
For the most part, they exist as single independent cells, but may often be found in pairs, especially when still multiplying, and in rare instances are united into a series of four or even more, but never extend into chains.
During rapid vegetation, in rich nutritive media, the movements reach a stage of extreme activity.
The appearance is what is termed swarming, in which the bacteria move rapidly back and forth, in and out among each other, but never in a straight line to any distance.
As the rate of growth becomes less from any cause the movements are retarded.
Taken directly from the tissues of a blighting tree, the movements of translation are usually sluggish or imperceptible, although the universal Brownian movement is likelj' to give a misleading appearance of activity.
Under speciall}'^ favorable conditions, as when grown during hot weather in very succulent shoots, or from artificial inoculation in unripe fruit, the movements are much increased and may become quite rapid.
When taken from the tree in winter, or when grown in solutions that are too acid or too alkaline, or which are deficient in the proper nutritive substances, there is no perceptible locomotion.
When in active growth, the cells present a uniformly dull appearance.
By conditions which are unfavorable to normal growth, yet do not entirely check it, such as strongly acid or alkaline solutions, deficient nutriment, or exhaustion b}'^ keeping the cultures several months, the cells become highl}^ refractive, and to some extent take on the appearance of the spores of other species of bacteria.
Whether in this state the}^ possess any of the characteristic powers of resistance which belo^ig to spores, has not been ascertained.
Formation of Zoogloea.
By far the most characteristic feature in the life history of Micrococcus amylovorus is the formation of zoogloea (figs.
2, 3, 5).
These have never been observed in the tissues of the tree under an 3conditions, or in or upon any sort of solid media, but they occur with much regularity in fluid cultures, when placed under favorable conditions for rapid growth.
Thej'^ are produced to some extent throughout the fluid, but are most abundant in the thin pellicle which forms upon the surface, appearing within forty-eight hours from the beginning of the culture.
The substance of the pellicle consists of a colorless matrix uniformly filled with motionless bacteria, and against this the zoogloea are sharply defined.
They are often brought out yet more distinctly by being surrounded by a colorless layer, free of bacteria, which is doubtless an extension of the ground substance of the zoogloea mass (fig.
4).
The masses are far more dense than the pellicle, and are compactly filled with refractive bacteria.
They possess a definite outline, and are recognizable when verj'^ small ; and although they may reach 80 to 40 // long by 20 to 80 p. wide, they rarely lose their distinctness.
When below 10 , in length, their usual form is oblong, varying to globular.
They occur singly, or united more or less intimately end to end in pairs, and sometimes several form a short chain.
At this stage they possess a uniformly even and unbroken surface, which now becomes uneven and wrinkled, and is finall}^ thrown into folds, giving some resemblance to the external aspect of the brain.
Zoogloea more than 20 ij.
in length have the folds of somewhat unequal height, and the sinuses deeper, giving a stronger cerebric look, or when the folds are small and circular, they are better described as mulberry-like.
The elongated forms, which at some stage of growth might doubtless have been composed of two or more distinct masses, often take on a vermiform appearance.
But whatever the variations may be, the distinctness of outline, the general form, and the cerebric surface are unfailing characters, which so far as my knowledge extends, are not found in any other species of bacteria.
Cultivation in Fluid Media.
The range of substances which may serve as culture media for this organism is very wide.
An infusion of almost any vegetable substance containing a fair amount of soluble carbohj'drates is likely to be sufficient to enable growth to take place, even if not ver}'^ luxuriantly.
The substance which on the whole has proved most satisfactor}'' is an infusion of potato.
This is prepared by paring a potato and slicing it into three or four times its bulk of water.
This is kept for a couple of hours at about 70 C, by placing it over a water-bath, during which time it is occasionally stirred.
It is then filtered, and is ready to be placed in the culture vessels for sterilizing and use.
If the heat is allowed to rise much above 70, the starch is gelatinized, and it is only with diflficulty that the solution can be filtered.
The resulting liquid is clear and watery, but is often liffht brown from coloring matter contained in the potato, which does not, however, materially interfere with observations on the growth of bacteria in it.
Iodine gives a blue coloration to this liquid, showing that it contains starch, probably in the form of amylon.
Another equally good culture fluid is made by treating corn (maize) meal in a similar manner.
The solution is colorless, but it is very apt to throw down a troublesome sediment, which makes it less desirable to use than the potato solution.
Test-tube or flask cultures with these liquids, when kept at a temperature of 25 to 30C., usually show some turbidity in twenty-four hours after being infected, and if the growth is very rapid, bubbles of gas (CO2) will be given oflf, which collect at the surface into a slight froth.
In forty-eight hours the liquid has become thoroughly turbid.
By this time a thin whitish pellicle has formed on the surface, which does not increase much in thickness up to the end of active growth, and rarely becomes wrinkled.
With the formation of the pellicle, a sediment gathers at the bottom of the liquid, often a centimeter in depth, but which is so light that it only apparently diflfers from the liquid above by being whiter.
In the course of some weeks this sediment will mostly gather upon the bottom of the vessel.
No difierence has been observed in the appearance of the bacteria taken from diflferent parts of the culture.
Those imbedded in the pellicle are not ari'anged in any recognizable order.
In proportion as liquids are less suitable to the growth of the organism, the visible changes are less.
The pellicle may not be formed, and there may be no turbidity, but if any growth at all takes place there will be some evidence of it by formation of a slight sediment.
But the occurrence of a precipitate does not necessarily imply growth, for it not infrequently separates from a liquid containing organic matter, although remaining perfectly sterile.
An infusion of hay, and also of dead, partly decomposed grass from a marsh, gave nearly a normal growth of blight bacteria, but the cells were considerably more refractive than usual.
A solution of starch, having one part of starch to fifty of water, gave but a slight growth of highly refractive bacteria, without a pellicle, turbidity, or zooglosa.
A strong decoction of old barnyard manure acted in the same manner.
A solution of one part of glucose to fifty of water gave no growth of the bacteria.
In testing the effect of acids upon the development of blight bacteria, a ^ per cent, of malic acid was added to the usual infusion of potato.
This prevented the formation of a i>ellicle, turbidit}^ or zoogla3a, but gave a very considerable cloudj^ sediment,, largely made up of loosely aggregated groups of blight bacteria, which were brilliantly^ refractive.
A similar solution with 2 per cent, of malic acid gave a slightly less abundant sediment, but with otherwise the same results.
Some of the latter was transferred to a corn-meal solution, producing the characteristics of a pearblight culture, except the formation of zooglcea.
After some days this was introduced into a pear tree, which in due course of time gave the true blight, showing that the bacteria of the acid solution were really blight bacteria.
Attempts to grow them in a nutrient 5 per cent, solution of citric and tartaric acids have not been successful.
Testing the nature of the bacteria in cultures producing limited growth, by inoculating directly into the tree, has not, as a rule, proved successful, as for some reason they seem unable to gain a footing in the living tissues.
It is therefore necessary to transfer them first to richly nutrient cultures, from which, after a time, they may be introduced into the tree, and, if the blight bacteria are present, will start the disease.
Cultivation in Solid Media.
In test-tube cultures with nutrient gelatine the most characteristic results have been obtained by adding a drop containing blight bacteria to the gelatine while liquid, and thoroughly distributing the germs by shaking the tube.
In from two to three days the gelatine contains numerous small white dots, which, upon examination under the microscope, prove to be a mass of bacteria of the usual appearance.
The dots are globular or oval, and increase to about .5 mm.
in diameter.
No further growth or change takes place, and in this condition they remain for weeks, without liquefying or otherwise atlecting the gelatine.
When sown upon the surface of the gelatine by drawing a needle or glass rod over it, or by placing a drop on it, the growth is feeble and does not amount to more than a slight shining appearance of the surface.
A nutrient solution made from an unripe pear, in which blight 336 PROCEEDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. germs wei'e well distributed by shaking and then left undisturbed for two days, gave the same isolated white dots as in gelatine; but they dropped to the bottom of the liquid upon being jarred.
The bacteria were evidently prevented from moving freely by the jelly, which was not, however, thick enough to keep the groups in place when its cohesion was once disturbed.
Fruit jellies, doubtless, may be found to be convenient media for the cultivation of this species of bacteria.
No success has been attained in the use of agar agar, but whether due to a want of adaptability in the substance, or to wrong manipulation, must be left to future experiments to determine.
The opaque solid cultures proving most successful have been conducted upon freshly gathered unripe pears.
Slices of these are placed under a moist bell-jar, and infected by touching with a needle that has been dipped in some substance containing the bacteria.
In two or three days fine milk}^ drops, like beads of dew, will appear scattered over the surface for 5 mm.
or more about the infected spot.
These will become somewhat lai-ger after a time, while the spot which received the infection will turn slightly brown, the tissues gradually wasting away and forming a small depression.
If, however, the slices, having freshly cut surfaces both above and below, are laid upon a plate with a little water, and placed under a bell-jar, the result is not the same.
The dew-like drops appear within forty-eight hours, as in the other case, but increase rapidly in size, while a drop is also formed at the point of infection.
Drops finally appear over the whole surface of the slice.
They remain more or less distinct, and soon become as large as a pea, retaining the globular or rounded form to a remarkable degree.
Microscopically the}'^ ai-e composed of the usual form of blight bacteria, suspended in a colorless fluid.
After about a week, the drops coalesce and the tissues of the pear begin to break down.
This sort of culture requires no precautions of sterilizing, as no other bacteria can multiply upon it till after the cells of the pear begin to die.
When blight bacteria are sown upon slices of baked or boiled potato, they spread out over the surface in a thin, slightly moist layerj which is usually somewhat yellowish, but do not grow PLATE '^^ { n U !
'0 ^ 3 i.
';_) 4 o ^ O Co ^ 8 Or, oo <i >.J .--v t -x*.
(i y ^>' z o O a J. C. ARTHUR Del MICROCOCCUS AMYLOVORUS bur.
readily, or produce a characteristic appearance.
Under the microscope the cells are strongly refractive.
A boiled potato was infected by thrusting a platinum wire, smeared with blight bacteria, into one end.
After sixteen days it was cut open.
No external change had taken place, and, to the unaided eye, no internal change either ; the odor and texture were still those of a freshly boiled potato.
The microscope, however, revealed the blight bacteria in every part of the potato, in irregular motionless masses, and with more than the usual refractiveness.
These opaque solid cultures have brought out one fact verj'distinctly, which is, that Micrococcus amylovorus requires a large supply of water for its best development a fact which has an economic bearing.
Behavior toward Staining Fluids.
So far as trial has been made, nothing especially characteristic has been detected to distinguish this form of bacteria from the majority of micrococci.
The most successful results have been obtained with a watery solution of Bismarck-brown, especially in cover-glass preparations.
These make excellent specimens when mounted in Canada balsam.
The zoogloea are inclined to be too deeply stained by this process, and for most purposes they are best studied unstained.
They may be well preserved by mounting in glycerine.
Hematoxylin has also given good results, but has not been found particularly useful.
Chemical Products.
The chemical changes brought about by the activity of the blight bacteria have not yet been fully and carefully worked out.
The most obvious product is carbon dioxide, which often passes off so freely from a cultivation as to produce a slow effervescence.
Butyric acid and alcohol are formed in very small quantities, if at all.
The tests by which these facts have been determined have already been published,^ and need not be repeated here.
Vigorous cultures of the bacteria in infusion of potato give no reaction for glucose with Fehling's solution ; and blighting tissues from the tree give no indication by the same test of more than the normal amount of glucose to be found in healthy tissues.
On the other hand a quantitative ^ Rep. N. Y. Agric.
Exper.
Station for 1885, p. 247 ; and less fully in Amer.
Nat., vol.
xix, 1885, p. 1181.
23 c determination of sound and blighting pears, taken from the tree at the same time, shows considerably less sugar in the latter.
A favorite explanation with horticulturists of the action of fireblight upon the pear-tree, has been to say that the sap is poisoned.
This poison was supposed to be introduced by insects, or to be due to some disorganization of the tissues.
Although it is now known that specific bacteria are directlj'^ answerable for the disease, it is yet worth while to see if the old idea of a poison has not some foundation in fact.
It has been ascertained that certain bacteria produce, during their growth, characteristic poisons which are classed under the name of ptomaines.
Most of the ptomaines are non-volatile, and readily soluble in water or alcohol.
The chemical tests which are applied for their detection cannot be considered conclusive except when taken collectively.
The tests tried below are among the most satisfactory known at present.^ A cultivation in infusion of potato, giving about 200 cc.
of liquid was filtered, and the filtrate evaporated to a syrup.
This was treated with alcohol, and the solution tested with the most characteristic test for ptomaines the reduction of potassic ferriccyanide.
Other portions of the solution were successively tested with phospho-molybdic acid, potassio-mercuric iodide, and iodine in potassic iodide, all of which failed to give any distinctive reactions.
Another trial was made with about 200 cc.
of material prepared by cooking a potato in just enough water to cover it, sterilizing, and cultivating the bacteria in it as usual.
In four days from beginning of the culture it was filtered ; the residue upon the filter was treated with 100 cc.
of distilled water, slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid, heated to 70C.
and filtered.
The two filtrates were united and evaporated to a syrup.
This was digested in the cold with alcohol containing a little sodic hydrate.
This solution was tested as before, and also with platinic chloride and concentrated sulphuric acid, and all with no distinctive reactions.
A third trial was made with a boiled potato, which had been permeated with the blight.
The extract was made by the StasOtto method, and the same reagents used as in the last case, with equally negative results.
1 Cf.
Brieger, Ueber Ptomaine, 1885, p. 33, et seq.
These tests do not cover the possibility of the ptomaine being volatile, which is really not very great.
It is yet necessary to make tests of freshly blighted tissues from the tree, which can only be done during the hot months.
Action of the Organism in the Living Plant.
The bacteria of blight have the power of growth and multiplication in the presence of the living cells of the pear, and in this one important respect differ essentially from other species of bacteria.
By artificial inoculation into growing unripe pears, which give most marked and certain results, it is found that other bacteria are entirely innocuous, at once disappearing without having made any growth or induced any changes in the tissue of the pear.
If blight bacteria in active condition are intermixed with the other forms, they penetrate the cells, multiply, and finally bring about the disorganization and death of the tissues which marks the progress of the disease, but the associated forms disappear the same as when introduced alone, and the product is a mass of practically pure blight bacteria.
This result is rendered possible on account of the fact already stated, that the blight bacteria penetrate the tissues, and maintain their normal growth for some time (days or weeks), before the life of the cells is sufficiently interfered with to permit the growth of other forms.
The bacteria always extend beyond the visible location of the disease in small branches, often to the distance of a third of a meter or more.
One of the properties which enables this species to successfully penetrate the pear-tree is evidently its unusual indifference to acids, which prevents most other forms from making any growth; the juices of the pear give a strong acid reaction with test paper.
What chemical changes are brought about by its activity in the plant cannot be definitely stated, further than to say that a mucilage or gum, which is soluble in water, is produced in abundance, with the disengagement of carbon dioxide.
The contents of the cells, together with the cellwalls which have not been liquefied or changed into stony tissue, pass over into this viscous product.^ ^ Rep. N. T. Agric.
Exper.
Station for 1885, p. 248 ; Araer.
Nat., vol, xix, 1885, p. 1181.
It was early observed by cultivators, being recorded by Coxe, that succulent shoots blight the most readily, and any process of cultivation which as far as possible prevents succulency has always been considered an aid in keeping the disease in check.
The avidity of the blight bacteria for water has been well demonstrated in the cultures on slices of pears.
There seems to be some connection between these facts and the well-known fact that the disease shows different degrees of virulence in different varieties of fruit trees, especially in different varieties of the pear.
The variation, or at least part of it, to be observed in pears, apples, quinces, hawthorns, etc., may be due to some inherent difference in the nature of the host, not readily formulated ; for we find that the blight bacteria will grow to only a slight extent in the succulent peach shoots, and not at all in most other plants.^ But in varieties of the same fruit it may reasonably be inferred that to a considerable extent the difference in the progress of the disease is due to physical causes.
To determine what relation the hydration of the tissues holds to this question, a series of determinations of the percentage of water in the parts of the tree most subject to blight has been begun.
These are yet incomplete, and can only now be referred to briefly.
The Bartlett and Seckel pears very well represent the extremes, the first being most affected by the disease and the second least.
Twigs taken from the tree in February were found to contain 50'2 per cent, and 50"85 per cent, of water respectively.
Twigs taken in the same way April 30, bearing flower buds, but with the leaves removed, gave 68"7 per cent, and 67*3 per cent, of water.
The half-grown fruit, taken the first week in July, gave '79*3 per cent, of water for the Bartlett and 71 per cent, for the Seckel.
According to these figures the amount of water in the Bartlett and Seckel twigs during the winter is practically the same, but during growth both the twigs and fruit of the Bartlett contain more water than those of the Seckel.
These numbers give some support to the view that succulency and the strength of the disease are directly related, but the data are yet too incomplete to warrant a definite statement.
1 Rep. N. Y. Agric.
Exper.
Station for 1884, pp.
362, 377 ; Amer.
Nat., vol.
xix, 1885, p. 1182.
EXPLANATION" OF PLATE IIL The drawings were made with a camera lucida and a Spencer's y'o-objective, homogeneous immersion, of 125 balsam angle.
They are unifoimly magnified 890 diameters.
Fig.
1.
Micrococcus amylovorus Bur., grown upon a slice of boiled potato, stained with Bismarck-brown and mounted in Canada balsam.
Fig.
2.
From a cultivation in hay infusion : a, separate bacteria ; 6, zoogloea.
The large mass, only part of which is shown, is made up of smaller masses more or less united.
Fig.
3.
Small zoogloea from a potato infusion, drawn from a preparation in Canada balsam, stained with Bismarck-brown.
Fig.
4.
Poition of a zooglcea mass from the same culture, showing an envelope free from bacteria.
Drawn from an unstained preparation mounted in glycerine.
Fig.
5.
Three zoogloea from the same culture.
Fig.
6.
From another culture in hay infusion.
342 proceedings of the academy op [1886.
October 5.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
A paper, entitled " Observations on Multiplication in Amoeba;," by Lillie E. Holman, was presented for publication.
October 12.
Mr. Chas.
Morris in the chair.
Twenty-two persons present.
Notes on the Lichens in the Herbarium of the Academy.
At a meeting of the Botanical Section, held October 11, Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt, to whom had been committed the task of examining and arranging the Lichens in possession of the Academy, reported the result of his work, which had extended over two years.
Besides the collections upon the shelves, made by Schweinitz, and by him bequeathed to the Academy, and that received from the late Prof Tuckerman, he had found stowed away among miscellaneous packages : 1st, a collection made by Thomas G. Lea, of North American species, many without names, or incorrectly named ; 2d, a small collection made by H. W. Ravenel, chiefly from the vicinity of Aiken, or along the Santee Canal in South Carolina, in all about 60 to 70 species ; 3d, a small collection of Arctic species made by Dr. Hayes ; 4th, a small collection of European species made by Parmentier at a very earl}^ date; 5th, a set of Scotch Lichens from Mr. Manghen ; and a few scattered species from various American collectors.
To each of these collections he had given a careful microscopic examination, and had named and classified them on the basis of Prof. Tuckerman's Genera Lichenum.
He had also added to these from his own private herbarium more than 400 species, both North American and foreign.
All these collections had been incorporated in one, and occupy one of the cases in the lower room, as a nucleus for the Academy's general collection of Lichens.
For obvious reasons it had been deemed advisable to maintain apart and undisturbed the t3'pe collections of Schweinitz and Tuckerman, but a general catalogue has been prepared including all, by which proper reference to the contents of each is facilitated.
He had, moreover, gone carefullj^ through the Schweinitzian collection, and, while leaving the original names unchanged, had indicated upon the outside of each packet such changes as are required by the present state of knowledge.
The total number of species of Lichens now in the Academy's Herbarium is 736.
In the general collection are 570 species, and in the Schweinitzian are 462.
The general collection contains 244 species not found in the Schweinitzian, and the latter has 282 species not found in the former.
In all, 65 genera are well represented.
In regard to the Schweinitzian collection he remarked that the same species often there appeared under several names, being simply in different stages of development.
Genera too were founded upon juvenescent stages or gonidial conditions which, from the time of Acharius to that of Schweinitz and later, were considered sufficient to establish generic distinctions.
For example, such genera as Leparia, Isidium and By^tsus, were then deemed valid, but are now considered to be, some of them young and irioid states of plants mostly belonging to the section Lecanora ; others, sterile states of Omphalaria, Ceenogonia, or other Collematous Lichens.
He spoke of several rare and interesting specimens in the collection.
Of these, in the Schweinitz Herbarium, is a crustaceous Lichen found in 1812 at Salem, N. C, on a granitic rock, and called by the collector Gyalecta Candida^ and by this name known only to a few up to the year 1866.
At this period Prof. Tuckerman described the plant in an Appendix to his Lichens of California as Opegrapha ontocheila, thus placing it permanently in a well-established genus of gymnocarpous Lichens.
This specimen was the only one known until 1885 when Mr. Green found upon high projecting schist rocks along the Catawba River at Landsford, Chester Co., S. C, a lichen which was supposed to be new, until Prof Tuckerman, just previous to his last illness, identified it with that found by Schweinitz as above.
Dr. Eckfeldt also referred to a remarkable foliaceous Lichen found near Cincinnati by Mr. T. G. Lea in 1889, formerly known as Parmelia Ohionis (Lea, Catal.
PI.
Cincinnati, p. 45), but since described by Tuckerman as Physcia Leana.
So far as Dr. Eckfeldt was aware, this rare species had not since been found.
He also referred to the difficulties encountered in the examination of much of the material, many of the types being old and fragile, having lost the parts most important for study, for want of proper care.
Only a practiced eye, aided by constant use of the microscope, and by comparison with authentic specimens, can surely determine the doubtful and difficult forms present in this section of cryptogamic botany.
October 19.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-seven persons present.
A paper entitled " The Genera Mesonyx and Pachygena Cope," by Wm.
B. Scott, was presented for publication.
On the Interdependence of Plants.
Mr. Thomas Meehan called attention to the well-known fact in geographical botanj', that species of plants which once had evidently a wide dispersion now existed only as separate colonies often of a few plants only, the intermediates between these widely separated colonies having evidently disappeared.
The cause of these disappearances had not been definitely determined.
It was found that the still existing individuals were evidently in good health ; they flowered freel}-, and perfected seeds, but still the plants did not spread.
He gave a number of illustrations within his own observation of a few rare plants that had maintained their existence for over a quarter of a century, with about the same number of individuals now as at the beginning of the term.
As the seeding was regular and perfect, why was dispersion arrested ?
There could be but one answer.
Something prevented the germination of the seeds, or of subsequent growth after germination.
No doubt there may be other causes, but this one must have a leading influence.
It then becomes an interesting branch of study to inquire why these seeds do not germinate, and thus aid the plant to recover the ground lost through destructive agencies ?
An observation extending over about six 3'ears led him to conclude that there was much in the interdependence of plants.
Whatever afi'ected the existence of individuals of one species might lead to the extermination of numerous others, and the successful endeavor of one to establish itself in one locality gave the necessary opportunity to follow and sustain themselves.
This observation was as follows : A wood, chiefly of chestnut and oak, of about an acre in extent, was turned into a picnic ground a place for summer pleasure parties.
All the shrubby undergrowth was cut away.
The plants which might have grown up, were kept tolerably well trodden down by the numerous visitors to the wood, except one solitary blackberry plant (Bubus villosus), which, being thorn}', led to its avoidance by human feet.
After the second summer, some change in railroad arrangements led to the abandonment of the wood for picnic purposes, and plants had a chance to grow up again without disturbance from human beings.
The blackberry plant, by the aid of its creeping roots now forms a thicket of about thirty feet in diameter.
The following list of plants growing among the blackberries, that were not found in any part of the wood, except the last two, which were in small quantities here and there, was made in October of this year : Eupatorium perfoliatum^ Bubus occidentalis, Liriodendron tulipiferum, Cornus alternifolia, Smilacina racemosa, Ambrosia artemisisefoUa, Laurus sassafras, Polygonum Persicaria, Achillea millefolium, Solidago canadensis, Mulgedium acuminatum, Bidens frondosa, Silene verticillata, Fragaria virginiana, Aster longifolia, Eupatorium album, Circsea lutetiana, Geranium maculatum, Acer rubriim, Phytolacca decandra, 3Iuhlenbergia diffusa, Potentilla canadensis, the last two to some extent in the wood.
All the kinds, however, o;rew in the vicinity of the acre of woodland, though not within its limits, and it was eas}' to note that they had grown from seeds falling or brought to the blackberry patch during the last three or four years.
Those who are familiar with the seeds of these plants will understand that there is nothing special about the seeds of these species that would easily lead to their being brought there by birds that might rendezvous in the thickets.
We must look to the wind as the chief agent in transporting them there.
This being the case, we should look for the plants from wind-sown seeds in other portions of the wood, as well as in the blackberrj^ patch.
That they are not in the wood elsewhere permits us to say that the shade, moisture, preservation of decaying leaves, or of some other incident not acceptable to other plants in the wood, but favorable to these strangers, gave them the chance to sprout and grow.
They were, in fact, dependent on the blackberry for their first start in life.
This conclusion was further evidenced by the fact that, though some of the annuals had evidently seeded and reproduced plants for several successive seasons, no plants were found spreading out of the protecting area of the blackberry thicket.
Certainly these species were all dependent here on this plant, as this plant would probably be dependent on others in some other instances.
How some plants can exist, grow healthily, produce seed, and not spread, Mr. Meehan illustrated in the case of Shortia galacifolia, the original locality of Michaux having a few months ago been rediscovered b}'^ Professor C. S. Sargent.
Though it had maintained itself for the best part of a century, it had existed without spreading.
Some circumstance had evidently prevented the seed from germinating, and these circumstances would undoubtedly be controlled by the presence or absence of some friendly plant.
He offered the facts as a contribution to the study of the interdependence of plants.
October 26.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
The following was ordered to be printed : OBSERVATION ON MULTIPLICATION IN AMCEB^.
BY LIIiLIE E. HOLMAN.
On the 4th of July, 1886, I was examining the forms of life contained in a Holman life-slide, which had been filled for several hours.
It contained different Infusoria, and among other animals, specimens of JEolosoma.
But it seemed for some time as if there were no amoebae in the slide, until I discovered a small one near the channel.
In shape it seemed like an elongated triangle, and was rather torpid, or at least moved but little.
While I was examining it, it moved up closer to the line of the channel, and another amo3ba, about twice the size of the first one, came gliding on the scene.
It moved up very close to the other, and in a few moments I noticed that it looked as if it were trying to swallow the smaller amoeba, in the same manner that it does its ordinary prey.
As I had watched many amoebae and had never seen anything like this, and as I knew that they did not prey on each other, and the question of their conjugation was a very doubtful one, I dismissed the idea of the larger absorbing the smaller, and concluded it was merel}' the fact that they were in too tight a place to allow of their passing each other which gave them this appearance.
I watched them constantly for about half an hour, in course of which time I became convinced that something unusual was going on.
The larger amoeba had entirely surrounded the smaller one, which, however, did not seem to lose its vitalit3^ First it seemed to be under the endosarc of the larger, and then above it.
Somertimes it would project a pseudopod out from beyond the ectosarc of the larger animal.
All the time it was distinctly visible in its own individuality, if one may so call it, and did not at all seem to be trying to escape.
I called Mr. Holman's attention to the singularity of their behavior, and expressed my belief that it was a case of either cannibalism or conjugation.
He expressed his disbelief in either of these cases, and observing that the water in the slide was evaporating, we allowed a little to creep in under the closed edge of the cover-glass.
This seemed to relieve the large amoeba from the constrained position and flat contour which it had assumed, and it immediately commenced to put out pseudopods and move away ; and the smaller one moved off with it, evidently engulfed in the larger one, and quiescent in that position.
The small amoeba occupied a position in the upper part of the larger one.
As this last moved on, it seemed to push the small one in an opposite direction from that which its granules were taking, till it reached about the centre of its body.
Then it commenced an evident effort to expel the smaller one.
It reached out its pseudopods in every direction, graduall}expelling the smaller one until it was completely discharged.
The smaller one, by this time, assumed an almost spherical shape.
At last the large amoeba ceased moving, and commenced to expel refuse matter such as is common with them.
It had anchored itself near some other refuse matter, probably vegetable, and really looked as if it was using it as a sort of grapple for the purpose of ridding itself of the rejected smaller amoeba.
It was successful ; for in a few moments it moved away to the upper part of the field, leaving the round ball, looking in every respect like an encysted amoeba, near the little group of refuse.
It went on in the field, and we followed it for some time, when it became quiet, and we went back to the encysted one.
I watched it to see what would happen next, for it seemed as if there must be some strange sequel to our remarkable observation, and the watching was not in vain.
The flat disk commenced by a sort of contractile movement, to throw out particles or granules, as if it were laying eggs.
I can think of no other expression, although the particles, while approximate in size, had no regularity of shape.
This continued till the amoeba again assumed its clear and transparent appearance, and at last, seeming to fully regain its activity, put out a pseudopod and moved in the field, leaving behind it a group of the particles or granules.
Only for a little while, however, did it move ; in a few moments it lost its animation, seemed to become transparent, and at last faded into one of those disks which seem to be merely the shells of once active forms.
I did not see it move again.
This observation was carried on continuously during two hours and a half, and every stage watched most closely.
I was at a loss what to call it, if not a clear case of conjugation and separation.
The most convincing proof to my mind that this was a proceeding which was for a purpose, was given when, two nights after, this slide, which was laid carefully aside for future examination, was found to be full of young amoebae.
They literally swarmed ; I counted in the field at one time twenty-four of uniform size, while I have no hesitation in saying that there were between one and two hundred in the slide, which had before held but two.
The worn-out disc was recognized, and also what seemed to be the remains of the larger amoeba.
November 2.
The President, Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The death of Dr. Geo.
Martin, a member, October 28, 1886, was announced.
November 9.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair.
Twenty-two persons present.
The death of Chas.
C. Phillips, a member, November 5, 1886, and that of John S. Haines, a member, November 4, 1886, were announced.
The Publication Committee reported that the paper entitled " The Genera Mesonyx and Pachyaena, Cope," by Wm.
B. Scott, would be published in Vol.
IX, Part 2, of the Journal of the Academy.
November 16.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Twenty -five persons present.
A paper entitled " On an XJndescribed Meteoric Iron from East Tennessee," by F. A. Genth, Ph.
D., was presented for publication.
* On Petiolar Glands in some Onagraceae.
Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that stipules were unknown in Onagracese, but in Ludwigia (Isnardia) palustris there were two minute conical gelatinous glands that appeared to be stipular.
They existed in series of specimens representing the Atlantic and Pacific coast, and from Europe, those from California being larger than in specimens from other locations.
They are found in all the species of Ludwigia and Jussieua that he had been able to examine.
In these they appeared petiolar rather than stipular.
In the dried specimens of Circeea a dark spot indicated the position occupied by the glands in other species.
They mostly varied in form and exact position with the species, and only for having been wholly overlooked by describers might have afibrded some good specific characters.
The discovery he regarded as interesting, as confirming the views of those botanists who had brought Turneracese^ in which the petiolar glands were known to exist, in close relation with Onagraceae.
In the specimens of Lxidwigia palustris, dried to exhibit with this communication to the Academy, a single capsule only, cut across for examination, projected the seed into his face while the capsule was being examined with a lens, indicating a projecting power not before known to exist in the species.
November 23.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
Manganese Zinc Serpentine from Franklin, N. J. Prof. George A. Koenig placed on record the determination of a manganese zinc serpentine from Franklin, N. J.
The material was collected in summer, 1885, as a very peculiar Willemite, so called at the mine.
It is a very compact mineral substance, having a dark brown dull color and subconchoidal fracture, the splinters resembling horn chips.
It is translucent on the edges, and when ground into a thin plate transmits a uniform brown-j'ellow light.
Under the microscope this section of the purest material shows strings of minute black grains.
Between two crossed nicol prisms the section appears light, proving a crystalline structure other than isometric.
But a few grains, a light yellow in ordinary light, behave like an isometric substance, and are probably grains of yellow garnet, which is one of the associate minerals.
Spec.
gr.
:= 2*635.
It is decomposed by sulphuric acid like Serpentine.
The mean of two well-agreeing analyses gave Si02 = 42-20 (including 0-298 MgO,0-2 ZnO).
Fe203= 2-80 MnO = 7-44 ZnO = 3-90 MgO = 29-24 H2O = 14-04 99-62 Let Fe^O^ be supposed to be present as Franklinite, requiring 0*8 ZnO and 0-53 ZnO, then we have 4-15 per cent, of Franklinite mixed with the silicate, and the composition is now 1-390 1-462) 0-194 > 1-733 0-077) 1-533 100-16 This gives the ratio, SiO^ : RO : H^O 1 1-25 1-1 Si02 41-70 MgO 29-24 MnO 6-91 ZnO 3-10 H^O 14-04 Franklinite 4-15 Pyroxene 1-02 1886.]
NAtURAI, SCIENCES OF 1>HILADEL1>HIA.
351 Under the circumstances, that is, in view of the microscope showing the admixture of an isometric or amorphous body, this ratio is sufficient to establish the material as a Serpentine.
Associated with the Serpentine, besides the minerals already mentioned, is a light grayish fibrous mineral.
This is composed of Calcite and two Silicates, a silicate decomposable by Hcl (probably equal to the above serpentine), and a silicate insoluble in Hcl, which is probably a pyroxene.
Several analyses have been made without establishing the nature satisfactorily.
On Miocene Fossils from Southern New Jersey.
Prof. Heilprtn called attention to a limited collection of fossils from near Bridgeton and Jericho, Cumberland Co., New Jersey', representing the Miocene formation of that State.
The species identified were : Terehra curvilirata, Turritella aequistriata, Turritella Gumherlandia, Trochita centralis, Fissurella Griscomi, Ghama congregata, Astarte distans {^indulata), Grassatella mehna, Area centenaria, Nucula obliqua (proxima), Perna maxillata, Pecten Madisonius^ Pecten sp.
?
Orbicula luguhris.
A number of these forms nearly one-half had not been identified in the State before, although fairly abundant in the Miocene tract of the region to the south.
They are therefore interesting as bearing directl}^ upon the question of horizon which the scantily-represented Miocene fauna of New Jersey indicates.
The speaker stated that in his work, " Contributions to the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the United States" (1884), he had suggested that the probable position of the deposits in question would be found to be in the " Marylandian " series Lower Atlantic Miocene a view sustained by the additional fossils that have now been brought to light.
On the Eelictites of Luray Gave.
Dr. Charles S. Dollet remarked that during a recent visit to the celebrated Luray Caverns his attention was called to the peculiar branching stalactites known as helictites (e/J?, a spiral), and the question arose as to the method by which a stalactite gives oflF a horizontal branch at right angles ; this branch in its turn perhaps sending out twigs at greater or lesser angles, and at varying degrees of inclination.
For a better opportunity of studj-ing this interesting phenomenon he was permitted to visit in company with Dr. Leidy a chamber seldom opened to inspection, and which, from the delicate and fantastic character of its limy deposits, has been called the " Toy Shop."
Here the stalactites were found to be of very recent formation, small, hollow, and increasing rapidly.
Many branching specimens, or helictites, in all stages of growth, were to be seen.
After some time spent in a vain search for an explanation of this anomalous structure, he happened to notice two specimens, the incipient branches of which were directed towards each other ; stretched tightly between the branches, and entering 362 PROCEEDmGS OP THE ACADEMY 01* [1886. the hollow tip of each, was a delicate thread, bearing a string of dew-like drops glistening brightly in the candle-light.
Further search revealed numerous specimens in which the lime-water trickling down the stalactite met a similar filament, and being partially diverted bad formed a drop at the point of junction; about this drop beautiful aragonite spicules were forming the hollow horizontal branch, the drop of water in the end being retained in position by the filament piercing it, and upon which it is gradually pushed along as evaporation deposits the lime behind it.
The length of the branch depends, of course, upon the length of time in which the filament remains intact.
These filaments, which are thus seen to be the cause of the formation of lateral offshoots to stalactites, are the products of a small cave spider.
November 30.
The President, Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in the chair.
Thirty-three persons present.
A paper entitled " On Schorlomite as a variety of Melanite," by Geo.
A. Koenig, M. D., was presented for publication.
On Hsematoxylin in the Bark of Saraca Indica.
Miss Helen C. De S. Abbott stated that De Candolle ^ and Linnseus describe Saraca Indica as a member of the famil}Leguminosse.
According to De Candolle it belongs to the genus Jonesia, Saraca Linn., and is separated by five genera from the genus Hsematoxylon or the logwood.
In an article on certain drugs indigenous to India, Dr. Waring^ gives an account of the medicinal uses of the bark of Saraca Indica.
The attention of Messrs. Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit, Michigan, was called to this drug, and through their correspondents in India they secured a supply, samples of which have been submitted to the speaker for a chemical analysis.
The full results of this analysis will appear elsewhere, but it is now desired to announce a discovery of practical and scientific interest in this connection.
A coloring principle, identical with logwood dye, has been isolated by her from the bark of Saraca Indica^ where it existed in two conditions, as hsematoxylin and an oxidized product.
The former was separated as yellow crystals, analogous in form to haematoxylin crystals from the true logwood, Hsematoxylon campechianum.
The alcoholic extract of the bark contained about 18 per cent, of a red colored substance, which agreed in color and dye tests with a like constituent found in logwood. '
Pro.
Sys.
Nat.
Reg.
Vegetabilis, vol.
ii, p. 487.
^ British Med.
Jour., June 6, 1885, p. 1145.
1886.]
353 Mordanted cotton fabric was dyed with hsematoxylin, extracted by ether from the Saraca bark, and presented the characteristic logwood dye colors.
The following is a table of dye wood colors with reagents, yielded by Brazil wood and logwood :^ Reagents.
Brasilin.
Hematoxylin.
Alkalies, Claret-red sol., .
.
Reddish pui-ple sol.
Acids (dilute), Orange ppt., .
.
Pink solution. "
(strong), Yellow " .
.
Alum sol., Crimson-red ppt., Yellow then violet sol.
Lime-water, .
<( ( Bluish purple ppt.
Ferrous salts, Purplish bl'k ' " black '' Ferric " Brownish red ' Black " Copper " U (t < Purple sol.
Lead Crimson-red ' Violet " Mercuric " Yellow Yellow " Silver u < Gray ppt.
Tartar emetic.
Rose-colored ' Purple sol.
Stannous chloride.
Red " ppt.
Sodium aluminate, Claret-red ' << a The extracts of Saraca Indica bark, containing the coloring principle, were tested with these reagents, arid it was observed that the reactions agreed with the hsematoxylin colors, and in no case with those of brasilin.
However, the colors produced by different alkalies varied in tints as she had found in both the logwood and Saraca extracts, but the general term " reddish purple solution " is comprehensive.
A rose-violet precipitate was yielded by stannous chloride solution with the neutralized acidified extracts of the barks.
The bark of the logwood-tree is not used for making the commercial logwood extracts, the wood of the tree being employed for this purpose.
The presence of a small quantitj^ of hsematoxylin was determined in the specimens of logwood-bark which she examined, and with the bark extracts the same reactions with reagents were obtained as with the logwood extracts, but owing to the smaller percentage of dye in the bark the colors were less intense.
In the case of the Saraca Indica bark the colors were very brilliant and indicated the presence of a larger proportion of the coloring matter than in the logwood bark.
These results should encourage investigators to secure specimens of the wood of the Saraca^ in order to determine if it contains the coloring principle, and should this be ascertained affirmatively, whether it exists in sufficiently large quantities to warrant its introduction as a new source of this commercial product.
To exhibit the colors produced by alkalies upon the dye from 1 S. P. Sadtler and Wm.
L. Rowland, Am.
Jour, of Phar., Feb., 1881.
24 logwood bark and Saraca Indica bark, the powdered material was macerated over the water-bath with distilled or filtered river water acidulated with dilute sulphuric acid (1 part to 50), the extract was filtered and the process repeated until no more color was removed.
This extract was treated directly with the reagents.
Excess of reagents produced darker tints, and after a time the solutions were decolorized.
Keagents.
Hccmatoxylon Campechianum.
\ ^^ Saraca Indica.
yxylon Campechi Acidified Extract.
Sodium Carbonate.
Sodium Hydrate.
Potassium Hydrate.
Ammonia.
Pale purple to reddish violet sol.
Blue violet ppt.
and sol.
Red-colored solution.
Pinkish-purple solution.
Among other constituents contained in the Saraca bark, catechin and saponin were determined.
Their presence along with haematoxylin is significant as showing the chemical position of Saraca in relation to the genera Acacia and Hsematoxylort ; catechin and saponin being found, as is well known, in Acacia.
The evolutionary position of the order Leguminosae, to which these genera belong, was pointed out in a former paper ,^ and it was stated that all orders containing saponin came under the middle division of M. Heckel's botanical scheme,^ or multiplicity of floral elements.
The facts accumulated from recent researches, since the publication of her article in the Botanical Gazette, and the discovery of saponin in many plants of widely diflferent genera and families, seem to justify and confirm what was stated in the article referred to above, " saponin is invariably absent where the floral elements are simple ; it is invariably absent where the floral elements are condensed to their greatest extent.
Its position is plainly that of a factor in the great middle realm of plant life when the elements of the individual are striving to condense, and thus increase their physiological action and the economy of parts.
'"^ George McClellan, M. D., and George L. English were elected members.
Prof. E. Selenka was elected a correspondent.
The following was ordered to be printed : ' Certain chemical constituents of plants considered in relation to their morphology and evolution, by H. C. De S. Abbott.
Botanical Gazette, vol.
xi, 1886, p. 270.
* Les plantes et latheoriede revolution, Revue Scieniifique, 13 Mars, 1886.
^ Loc cit.
Botanical Gazette.
ON SCHORLOMITE AS A VARIETY OF MELANITE.
BY GEO.
A. KOENIG, PH.
D. On the basis of a titanium Melanite from a new locality in Southwestern Colorado, the hypothesis is proposed that Schorlomite from Magnet Cove, Arkansas, may be considered as a Melanite in which Titanium replaces both Silicon and Aluminum.
By a series of analyses of Schorlomite and Melanite, it is proposed to establish the above hjqoothesis beyond doubt.
The following results are merely given as preliminary information.
The material from Colorado, obtained through Moritz Stockder, Mining Engineer at Lake City, shows the Melanite as black masses imbedded in a greenish yellow, fine granular matrix, with undefined boundaries.
No crystal planes were observed.
The color is deep black, brownish at thin edges, and in thin plates.
It has an uneven fracture, rather resinous lustre.
Sp.
gr.
= 3" 689.
Thin sections under microscope show the homogeneous character and optical indiflerence of the substance.
B.
B. several splinters fused at 3 with slight formation of bubbles (CO^).
Hydrochloric acid decomposes the mineral very slowly.
The analysis gave in two determinations : Si02 =30-n Ti02 = 8-11 APO^ = 2-26 Fe^O^ = 22-67 CaO =34-29 MgO = 0-304 C02 = 1-48 (loss by fusion).
9982 0'5 gr.
decomposed in sealed tube required 2*2 cc.
of permanganate (titre = 0-0058 Fe).
TiO^ + APO^ were separated from Fe^O^ by (NH^'S in tartaric solution, and APO^ from TiO^ by acetic acid according to Gooch.
Assuming that Ti replaces Si the ratio is obtained (Si, Ti)02 : (Fe, Al)203 : CaO = S-T28 : 1 : 3-49.
But assuming that Ti replaces the sesquioxides in part as Ti^O' under the hypothesis that the permanganate was reduced by Ti-0^ we obtain 3*28 Ti-0^ as replacing alumina = 3*64 TiO'^ It having been ascertained that 356 PROCEEDTNaS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. the loss by ignition is owing to CO^ and not to water, its equivalent of CaO was subtracted.
Tlius corrected the composition of 60 = 0-5120 ) 80 = 0-0560 j ^'^^^ 144 =0-0230^ 160 = 0-1420 >0-187 the mineral is : SiO^ 30-71 : TiO4-47 ; Ti^O^ 3-29 ; Fe^'O^ 22-67 ; AFO^ 2-26 ; CaO 32-41 ; MgO 0-30 I MnO r trace CaCO^ 3-36 56 = 0-5730 40 = 0070 0-580 99-47 This gives the ratio (Si, Ti)0^ : (Fe, Ti, A1)^0' : (Ca, Mg)0^ 3-03 : 1 : 3-102 quite satisfactory to the formula of Garnet Ca'(Fe, Al)^ Si^O^^ The greenish yellow matrix shows under the microscope an intimate mixture of three minerals, one of which is Calcite, one a green and one a white Silicate.
Its composition is given without at present expressing an opinion as to its mineral nature.
Spec.
Gr.
3-137 SiO^ 40-76 TiO^ 1-21 APO' 8-20 CaO = 29-60 FeO 3-98 MgO 5-62 K^O 0-89 Na^O 0-96 Co^^+H^O 6-96 98-18 A specimen of Schorlomite from Arkansas was analyzed with great care to test the hypothesis that Schorlomite is simply a titanium Melanite.
The material was like anthracite in lustre and color, quite opaque, even in thinnest sections.
It decomposes readily with HCL.
Tlie reduced permanganate was calculated as Ti^O^.
Spec.
Gr.
= 3-876 at 23C.
Si02 = 25-80 : 60 = 0-430 "I ^.^gg Ti02 = 12-46 : 80 = 0-156 j Ti203= 4-44:144 = 0-031^ AP03= 1-00 : 103 = 0-009 > 0-185 Fe^O^ 23-20 : 160 = 0-145 j CaO =31-40 : 56 = 0-561^ MgO = 1-22 : 40 = 0-030 V 0-597 MnO = 0-46 : 11 =0-006) 99-98 This gives the ratio (Si, Ti)02 : (Fe, Ti, Al)203 : (Ca, Mg, Mn)0 3-16 1 : 3-22 While not so near to the normal ratio, it is near enough, especially considering the difficulty of estimating Ti'O^, in warranting the hypothesis that Schorlomite has the formula of garnet, is isomorphous with it, and exists, as the writer hopes to establish, in a complete series of intermediate members; so much so, that it will be impossible to say where Melanite stops and Schorlomite begins, even though every titanium Melanite be not called Schorlomite.
December 1.
^ Mr. Wm.
W. Jefferis in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
J A paper entitled, " Observations on the upper Triassic mammals Dromatherium and Microconodon," by Henry F. Osborn, So.
D., was presented for publication.
December 14.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twent3'-one persons present.
The death of Isaac Lea, LL.
D. was announced.
The following was ordered to be printed : OBSERVATIONS UPON THE UPPER TRIASSIC MAMMALS, DROMATHERIUM AND MICROCONODON.
BY HENRY F. OSBORN, SC.
D. In 1857 Prof. Emmons ^ described portions of three small mammalian jaws from the Upper Triassie (Chatham Coal Fields) of North Carolina, which he assigned to the new genus Dromatheriuvi.
The type-specimen is now in the Geological Museum of Williams College.
Another specimen is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
I cannot ascertain the whereabouts of the third fragmentary specimen mentioned by the author.
I am indebted to Prof. Samuel F. Clarke, of Williams College, for an opportunity of stud3dng the type specimen.
Although slightly injured in the original removal of the matrix, this fossil is in beautiful preservation, and gives the complete mandibular dentition, with the exception of two molar crowns.
I soon observed that my drawing, made under a camera, did not Microconodon and Dromatherium.
Natural size.
agree with that given by Emmons, in his American Geology, Part YI, p. 94, which has since been copied by Owen, Dana and others.
This discrepancy was apparently explained later by a comparison of the Williams College specimen with that in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
In the latter, although the mandible is nearly complete, two molars and two premolars only are preserved, but these indicate a distinct genus.
As Emmons referred both jaws to the same genus, it is not unlikely that he supplemented the rather obscure characters of the teeth in his type-specimen with the very obvious tooth patterns of the less perfect specimen.
Thus, while the number of the molars in Emmons' drawing follows the type-specimen, their form resembles that observed in the Microconodon molars, which will presently be described.
Those familiar with the works of Professors Owen and Marsh upon the Mesozoic mammalia are aware that sharp distinctions 1 American Geology, Part VI, pp.
93 and 94.
3G0 [1886. in the molar series of the mammals of this period do not exist.
That is, the only distinction drawn between molars and premolars is one of form ; we have no data as to permanent and deciduous dentition, except possibly in the genus Triconodon.
The rule adopted is that, where the post-canine teeth are not all alike, the series of like form following the canine are called premolars ; and those behind these, of another form, are called molars.
This rule has been applied to all genera, excepting Phascolotherium and Diplocynodon, where all the post-canine teeth are practically alike.
DROMATHERITJM.
Dromatherium sylvestre Emmons.
Generic Characters.
Incisors and canines erect.
Molars and premolars unlike.
Molar-premolar series compact, leaving a wide diastema between the canine and first premolar.
Premolars Dromatherium sylvestre Em.
Magnified.
high, styloid and procumbent, with no cingulum and probably single fanged.
Molars bifanged with high pointed crowns and minute sometimes bifid cusps on the anterior slope and distinct pointed cusps on the posterior slopes.
The dental formula is Pm.
M. The incisors are nearly erect, and are separated by interspaces equaling the diameter of their crowns, which indicates that the superior incisors interlocked with them.
Ij is low and small ; Ij is larger and more erect ; I3 is very high, slender and slightly recurved, resembling the canine.
The canine is tall, stout and recurved, and in form is similar to the canine of Peralestes.
There is no indication of a double fang.
A wide diastema separates this tooth from the premolars.
These teeth are styloid in ^hape, and strongly procumbent.
The two anterior are apparently supported on single fangs.
The crowns are subcylindrical, with obtuse tips.
The third premolar is larger, more tapering from base to summit, and has an indication of a double fang.
The first molar in general outline is transitional between the molars and premolars.
On the anterior slope of the main cone, near the summit, is a fine accessory cusp ; while near the base of the posterior slope is a more distinct cusp.
The second molar has two accessory cusps on the anterior slope of the main cone, and one on the posterior slope placed half way down.
The third molar differs from the others in the large size of the posterior cusp.
On the anterior slope there is an indication of a small accessory cusp.
In the fourth molar the crown tip is detached, but there is an indication of the usual anterior and posterior accessor}^ cusps.
The fifth molar, besides the anterior and posterior cusps, has the trace of a posterior cingulum and possibly of a postero-external cusp.
The sixth molar is like the fourth.
The seventh molar is the most complex tooth in the series ; like the second, it has two accessory cusps on the anterior slope of the main cone, the uppermost of which is distinctly bifid.
The posterior slope also has a bifid accessory cusp, and a faint basal cingulum.
The anterior cusps throughout rise like needle-points on the sides of the teeth ; the posterior cusps are more distinct.
All the molars are compactly placed with high, rather narrow crowns, and deep depressions above the double fangs.
The characters of these crowns were made out with the greatest diflSculty, and a more perfect specimen may show slight difference of detail.
The mandible of Dromatherium is heavy and well-rounded in section.
It is marked on its inner face by a deep mylohj'oid groove, widening posteriorly into a broad pterygoid fossa.
The upper border rises behind the molars into the coronoid process, cr.
The summit of this process is broken, but a faint impression on the matrix shows that it had a high, slightly recurved outline.
A small portion of the hind border seems to be preserved just above the angle which would indicate that the condyle, cr?, was placed midway between the coronoid and angle, somewhat as in Amblotherium.
The thick lower border has a gentle double curvature.
There is no trace of the symphysial surface.
The unique character of the dentition separates Dromatherium widely from any known fossil or recent genus.
362 rROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP MICEOCONODON.
[1886.
Microconodon tenuirostris, gen. et sp.
nov.
This genus is founded upon the specimen in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, which was described by Emmons as Dromatherium.
Generic Characters.
A wide diastema between the canine and first premolar.
Molars and premolars unlike.
Premolars simple, erect cones with a faint posterior cinguliim and partly bi-fanged.
Molars bi-fanged with broad crowns supporting a large median cusp, at the sides of which are anterior and posterior conical cusps, sub-equal in size, and a distinct posterior cinguliim.
The ramus is about two-thirds the length of that of Dromatherium.
Its general lower curvature is single.
There is a depression extending beneath the molar-premolar series, but this is shallower than the mylohyoid groove, and I infer that the outer Microconodon tenuirostris Osb.
Magnified.
surface of the jaw is the one exposed.
The coronoid rises by a gentle curvature above the molars and the fractured portion seems to have left a faint impression on the matrix, which indicates a low rounded contour.
The posterior half of the lower border is marked by a downward process, somewhat similar to that in Peramus.
The surface of the process bears a shallow fossa.
Above this the crotaphyte fossa is faintly marked.
The symphysial portion of the jaw is partly fractured.
The matrix bears an impression which may have been left by a tooth, but more probably is accidental.
Altogether, the delicate character of this ramus indicates an animal of feebler masticating power than Dromatherium.
The molars probably extended backward to the rise of the upper border.
If so, the molar-premolar series covered a greater proportional space than those of Dromatherium.
This arose from the comparatively broader crow^ns of the molars.
By analogy with several other Mesozoic genera, we may suppose that the foremost molar preserved is the second, and that behind the hindermost were two other molars.
This would give four premolars and six molars.
Or there may have been three premolars and seven molars as in Dromatherium.
Unfortunately no casts are preserved to settle this point, and the restoration of the missing teeth is purely conjectural.
The molars are somewhat like those of Amphitherium except that the crowns are higher and the anterior and posterior cusps arise from the sides of the main cusp instead of from the base of the crown.
The posterior basal cusp which may be the continuation of an internal cingulum is well marked, as is the depression between the two fangs.
The third premolar is much larger than the first, and has an indication of two fangs.
There is a trace of the fang of the intermediate premolar.
These teeth, unlike those of Dromatherium^ are erect and do not rise to the level of the molar crowns.
The simple premolars differentiate the genus from Amjjhitherium.
Princeton, N. J., December 20t7i.
64 proceedings op the academy op [|1886.
December 21.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
A New Species of Aplysia.
Prof. Heilprin exhibited specimens of a new species of Aplysia^ or sea-hare, from Little Gasparilla Bay, west coast of Florida, The animal in general appearance was probably most nearly related to the European A. depilans (leporina), but differed in several well-marked points of structure, notably in color, the position of the buccal aperture, and in the character of the pore connecting with the shell cavity.
While in A. depilans the mouth is placed beneath the tentacular lobes i. e., the latter are superior in the Florida species it is central with regard to these organs, the lobes being circumferentially connate, and completely encircling the aperture.
The pore leading to the shell-sac is minute, and raised on a small papilla; the stellate markings radiating from the base of the papilla are very feeble, and can barely be discerned without close examination.
The shell, which is about an inch and three-quarters in length, is horny-calcareous, deeply emarginate, and striated longitudinally and transversely.
General color of the animal sea-green, tinged with purple, and irregularly blotched and speckled with spots of lighter color.
Length, 7-8 inches.
The animal emits a brilliant crimson fluid.
It was proposed to name the species Aplysia Willcoxi.
ALBERT DOD BROWN.
Announcement having been made that the collection of shells formerly belonging to Albert Dod Brown had been presented to the Academy by his mother, Mrs. Susan D. Brown, Dr. A. E. Foote stated that Mr. Brown, who was formerly Curator of the Princeton College Museum, died April 30, 1886, aged 45 years.
He had a well-recognized reputation as a student of conchology, botany, and horticulture, the latter years of his life having been devoted to the last-named pursuit.
He was one of the founders of the Concbological Section of the Academy, and was for jT^ears associated with it as a member.
The collection now given to the Academy is to be known by his name, but no other condition accompanies the generous gift.
A valuable portion of the collection consists of the cabinet of the late Mr. Thomas Bland, including his tj^pes of "West Indian 1 I shells.
By this valuable accession about five thousand species of shells represented by perhaps thirty-five thousand specimens have been added to the already unrivaled Conchological cabinet of the Academy.
December 28.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Thirty-five persons present.
The following was ordered to be printed : ON AN UNDESCKIBED METEORIC IRON FROM EAST TENNESSEE.
Plates IV and V. BY F. A. GENTH.
The history of this interesting meteoric iron is very meagre.
In August, 1867, I received from the late Dr. Isaac Lea a small fragment, weighing about five grams, with the request to determine whether or not it was meteoric iron.
The analysis (1), finished August 11, 1867, proving it to be meteoric iron, induced Dr. Lea to purchase the specimen.
Under date of May 11, 1868, the lite Julius E. Raht, of Cleveland, Tenn., wrote me : "I send you to-day a small piece (it weighed 44 grams.
F. A. G.) of meteoric iron, which was broken off from a mass, weighing fifty pounds, which fell about eight 5'^ears ago near the State line of Georgia, ten miles from here (Cleveland, Tenn.).
The piece has been sold into Mississippi."
In the fall of the year 1868, the late Dr. James L. Smith, of Louisville, Ky., the celebrated investigator of meteorites, on his return from Europe, wrote to Dr. Isaac Lea, congratulating him on the acquisition of the Mississippi meteorite, regretting at the same time that his absence in Europe had prevented him from securing it for his own cabinet.
It now remained in the possession of Dr. Lea, until he presented it to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The Museum record of the Academy simply notes the date of its reception, on October 24, 1876, that it was from the mountains of East Tennessee, and that it weighed 254 pounds.
All my efforts to obtain fuller information about its fall and discovery have proved unsuccessful.
The discrepancy between the weight given by Mr. Raht and the actual weight of the mass, must be charged to incorrect information received by Mr. Raht; this is insignificant, however, compared with the proof which Dr. Smith's letter gives to the fact that his Mississippi meteorite is identical with the one which Mr. Raht stated to have been sold into that State.
The mass shows on one corner the place where the 44 grams which Mr. Raht sent me had been broken off.
It is an irregularly shaped, somewhat triangular mass, the largest diameter being about 45 cm,, the height about 40 cm.
and its greatest thickness about 22 cm.
Its crust is very thin and mostly free from rust, only here and there covered with small spots of the same.
It shows one fracture, which, however, cannot be seen on the photographic representation on Plate IV, as it is on the opposite side near the indentation, and extending for about 15 cm, ; its widest part is about 10 mm.
in size.
This meteoric iron appears to be an original whole mass, and not a fragment torn off from a larger one ; its surface is pitted all over and shows numerous depressions and excavations, from a few centimetres in diameter and depth to about 15 cm, in length, 8 cm.
in width and nearly 5 cm.
in depth.
The photograph shows beautifully the pitted appearance of the mass.
Its original weight was nearly 115"5 kilos.
; probably 25 kilos, have been cut off in slabs which have been distributed amongst learned societies and individuals.
The crystalline structure of this meteorite is beautifully shown on three etched slabs which are represented in their natural size on Plate Y, 1 from my cabinet, 2 in the Vaux Collection, and 3 in the general collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
All three show the very perfect octahedral structure of this meteorite.
The specimen presented to me by Mr. Raht gave on etching exactly the same crystalline structure, which adds another proof that both came from the same piece.
The usual constituents of this class of meteorites are quite perceptible: the Kamacite (Balkeneisen) largely predominating and forming bands from 1 to 3 mm.
in width.
The Taenite (Bandeisen) enveloping the Kamacite, frequently subdividing in narrow lines the broader bands of the latter.
The length of the Kamacite individuals is from 1-5 cm.
to 2 cm.
It has a dull gray color; when magnified, it can be seen to be intersected in every direction by very fine lines, probably of Schreibersite.
The Piessite, somewhat darker than the Kamacite, mostly shows a very fine crystalline, mottled structure (moire metallique) and a glittering lustre ; a small portion, however, is quite dull and much darker.
^ On my specimen, fig.
1, Plate Y, there is in two places a remarkable admixture of an iron which is a great deal smoother and hardly shows any crystalline structure.
One begins about 9 mm.
below the right-hand corner, fii-st forming a somewhat oval mass of 2 to 3 mm.
in diameter and then extending in a dagger-shaped form for 1 mm.
; the other is 15 mm.
from the right edge and 8 or 9 mm.
below the border, about 12 mm.
long, on both ends 1-5 mm.
and in the centre about 1 mm.
wide.
This iron is brighter than any other portion of the edged surface and has a slight!
}^ yellowish hue.
The patches are not perfectly smooth, however, but show many very minute depressions.
In the centre where this iron is narrowest and on some portion of the unetched surface of my slab, small spots of rust have made their appearance.
An examination proved the presence of considerable quantity of chlorine, from which it is evident that they are the result of the oxidation of ferrous chloride, which this meteorite contains in small quantities.
The so-called " alteration zone " next to the hrandrind is quite distinct and from 1 to 1'5 mm.
in width.
I have made three analyses of this meteoric iron, the first nearly twenty j^ears ago, of the slightly rusty fragment, sent by Dr. Lea (1), the second of a perfectly fresh fragment of that portion cut off for specimens (2), and the third of the carefully purified sawdust obtained by this operation, which represents the average composition of the whole mass where it was cut (3).
They gave the following results : 1.
2.
3.
Specific gravity = T"521 Iron = 88-92 89-940 89.93 Copper = 0-28 0-080 0-06 Nickel = 9-82 8-507 8-06 Cobalt = 0-77 0-690 0-56 Phosphorus = 0-19 0-109 0-66 Sulphur = not det'd.
0-006 not det'd.
99-93 99-332 99*27 The following annual reports were read and referred to tlie Publication Committee : REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the year ending November 30, 1886, twelve members and four correspondents have been elected.
Resignations of membership have been received and accepted on the usual conditions, from Dr. Charles Harrod Vinton and Jerome B, Gray.
The deaths of seventeen members and one correspondent have been announced.
Eighteen papers have been presented for publication, as follows: Prof. Angelo Heilprin, 2; Chas.
Morris, 2 ; S. Frank Aaron, 1 ; Calvin McCormick, 1 ; W. D. Hartman, 1 ; C. Rominger, 1 ; Chas.
D. Dolley, 1 ; Geo.
Yasey, 1 ; Jos.
Leidy, 1 ; J. C. Arthur, 1 ; Thos.
Meehan, 1 ; Lillie E. Holman, 1 ; John W. Eckfeldt, 1 ; Wm.
B. Scott, 1 ; F. A. Genth, 1 ; Geo.
A. Koenig, 1.
One of these has been withdrawn ; one will be printed in the Journal ; one has been deferred in consequence of the inability of the Publication Committee to provide the required illustrations, and the others have been reported on favorably and form part of the current volume of the Proceedings.
One hundred and twenty-eight pages of the Proceedings for 1885, and three hundred and twenty-eight pages of the volume for 1886 have been printed, together with three plates.
Four foreign societies have been added to the list of exchanges to which the Academy publications are sent, making the entire number at present 379.
The average attendance at the meetings has been 21.
Yerbal communications have been made and for the most part reported for the Proceedings by Messrs. Meehan, Koenig, Heilprin, Woolman, Moody, Morris, Potts, Leidy, McCormick, Holman, A. H. Smith, Seiss, Holstein, Allen, Brooks, Sharp, Harvey, Willcox,U, C. Smith, Foote, Gibbons, Horn, Lockington, McCook, Lewis, Ryder, Dolley, Redfield, Tryon, S. R. Roberts and Miss Abbott.
25 At the meeting held June 22, the Academy, by resolution, joined with other scientific societies in an invitation to the International Congress of Geologists, to hold in America, the meeting after that provided for in London.
On November 2, a committee consisting of Messrs. U. C. Smith, Thos.
Meehan, Angelo Heilprin, Rev.
Henry C. McCook and T. D. Rand, was appointed to solicit aid from the Legislature in the erection of an addition to the present building.
No result has as yet been reported to the Academy.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan, Recording Seci^etary.
REPORT OP THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
During the year the duties of the Corresponding Secretary have been unusually light, and have consisted in great part of the reception of acknowledgments from corresponding societies of publications sent by us and the usual letters of transmittal from them.
As many of our exchanges are now sent through the mail, the acknowledgments are in the form of postal cards, which indicate by their dates how much earlier our publications are brought to the notice of the scientific world.
The four corresponding members elected during the year have been promptlj'' notified, and letters in return have been received from them and read to the Academy.
The donations to the Museum have been many and important, as will appear in the Curators' report.
It is one of the duties of my office to send receipts for these, but to the Curator-incharge I must acknowledge my indebtedness for the fulfillment of a duty of which I ofl^icially know nothing, having merely affixed my signature in former years.
Very little correspondence of a miscellaneous nature has been received, the Bureau of Scientific Information having apparently been communicated with directly.
Acknowledgments of the receipt of our publications have been received by postal card, in total, 56 ; representing foreign societies, etc., 12 ; American, 15 ; Canadian, 3.
1886.]
371 Letters of acknowledgment, numbering From British and Colonial Societies, etc., .
From Continental European Societies, etc., From American Societies, etc., Letters of transmittal, number in total, Representing twentj'-eight foreign societies etc., and but two American.
Letters asking deficiencies and desiring exchange number Miscellaneous letters, 105 16 18 15 36 11 11 The number of societies with which we exchange publications shows an annual increase greatly to the advantage of those who use the library.
Respectfully submitted, George H. Horn, M. D., Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
I have the pleasure of reporting to the Academy that 3765 additions have been made to the Library from December 1, 1885, to November 30, 1886, These consist of 481 volumes, 3245 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 39 maps.
We are indebted to the following for the additions, a detailed list of which accompanies the report : Societies, 1513 Editors 915 Isaiah V. Williamson Fund, 648 Authors, 333 C. H. Hitchcock, , .
.
.
46 Department of the Interior, , 30 University of Kiel, .
.
, 30 Wilson Fund, 24 War Department 24 Geological Survey of Sweden, 23 University of Wurzburg, , .
14 Stuart Wood, 13 Thos.
Meehan, 11 Geological Survey of Belgium, 11 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 10 British Museum, 9 Dr. Jos.
Leidy, 7 Chas.
M. Betts, 7 Geological Survey of India, , 7 Her Majesty's Government, .
Treasury Department, .
.
.
Engineer Department, U.S.A. Australian Museum, .
.
.
Geological Survey of New Jersey George Vaux, Geological Survey of Russia, Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company, .
, , .
Geological Survey of Roumania, United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, .
.
.
Geological Survey of Canada, Smithsonian Institution, , , Hon.
Charles O'Neil, .
, , J, Stockton Hough, .
.
.
George W, Tryon, Jr., .
.
E. Indian Government, .
.
6 6 5 5 5 4 4 3 3 3 2 2 2 o 372 [1886.
Wm.
John Potts, .
.
.
Minister of Public Works France, S. R. Roberts J. Fletcher Williams, .
.
Royal College of Surgeons, Bureau of Ethnology.
.
.
Isaac Lea, Charles C. Abbott, .
.
.
University of Pennsylvania, Department of Agriculture, m 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Geological Survey of Portugal, 1 Adele M. Fielde, .... 1 Department of Agriculture, Canada, 1 Geological Survey of New Zealand, 1 S. H. and H. Chapman, .
.
1 In Exchange (other than periodicals), 18 They were distributed to the several departments of the Library as follows : Journals, 2696 Geology, 315 General Natural History, .
130 Botany, 92 Conchology, 74 Anatomy and Physiology, .
62 Chemistry, 62 Mineralogy, 58 Physical Science, .... 47 Medicine, 36 Voyages and Travels, ... 35 Entomology, 24 Bibliography, 15 Encyclopedias, 18 Agriculture, 13 Mammalogy, 13 Anthropology, 12 Ornithology, 12 Helminthology, 10 Ichthyology, 7 Languages, 6 Geography, 5 Herpetology, 2 Miscellaneous, 23 It will be seen from the above summary that our main dependence for increase during the year has been, as heretofore, upon our exchanges and the I. Y. Williamson Fund.
Through the kindness of friends of the Academ}^ I have been again enabled to avail mj^self of the assistance of Sig.
Emanuele Fronani during the four months from June 14 to October 14, inclusive.
Besides helping me with the routine work of the Library, especially during my vacation, he has completed the copying of more than half of the card catalogue.
This work has progressed slowly, as it is only during the engagement of the assistant that time can be devoted to it.
It is, however, desirable that means should be provided for placing the cards now prepared at the service of those using the Library.
Additional cases for the reception of journals, also, are now absolutely necessary, and it is hoped that an appropriation may be made earl}'' in the jea.Y for their erection.
No other department of the Library grows so rapidlj^, and it is impossible to maintain the geographical arrangement which has been found convenient without more room.
For the I'eason that I have had to refer to so often before, namely, lack of funds, I have been able to have but 168 volumes bound since the last report.
These have been for the most part Williamson books, the work being paid for from the I. V. Williamson fund.
Nearly all our exchanges and accumulated pamphlets remain unbound, thereby not only exposing the Library to loss, but causing serious inconvenience to readers and students.
A liberal appropriation for binding, therefore, is one of our immediate and pressing needs.
It will be seen by the accompanying list of journals and periodicals received, that our exchanges have been kept up and increased.
The applications made for deficiencies last year have been productive of their full result, and the gaps still existing will probably have to be supplied by purchase.
The shelf list begun last year has been carried forward as rapidly as my other duties would permit.
Four or five sections of the Library j^et remain to be included, but even in its incomplete condition the catalogue has proved useful in locating accessions, detecting displacements and facilitating reference to the shelves.
AH of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan, Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators present the following statement of the Curatorin-Charge, as their report for the year 1886 : The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that during the past year the work of arranging, classifying and preserving the collections of the Academy has made considerable progress, for which, as heretofore, the institution is largely indebted to volunteer labor.
The special thanks of the Academy are due to Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., Conservator of the Conchological Collections, to Mr. John H. Redfield, Curator of the Herbarium, and to Mr. Jacob Binder, Curator of the Collection of Minerals covered by the Wm.
S. Yaux Trust, for their disinterested labors in their several departments.
To the Entomological Section, likewise, acknowledgment is due for work done in connection with the caring of the collection of insects.
In the departments other than those here indicated, the work has been done under the immediate superintendence of the Curatorin-Charse and his assistant.
Almost the entire collection of recent Invertebrata contained in the Museum barring the Mollusca has been re-arranged and re-classified, and the different groups have been so placed as to follow one another serially according to their position in the natural scale.
The very extensive series of crabs, which have heretofore occupied the window spaces on the first gallery, filling some twenty-four cases, have been intercalated with the general collection of Invertebrata on the top floor, where they occupy practically the entii'e western wall.
A re-arrangement of the Carcinological groups, following Gerstaecker, has been eff"ected.
B}^ this shifting of the collections, the first gallery will be relegated exclusively to ornithology, the vacated window cases having been removed to the main floor to relieve the crowded condition of the geological and paleontological collections.
Despite this large accession of table cases, and the addition of an equal number from other parts of the hall, the collections of Invertebrate Paleontology will barely find accommodation.
Roughl}" estimated the fossils of the difi'erent geological formations fill some 20,000-22,000 trays, and in point of individual numbers probably do not fall short of 15,000-80,000 specimens, or about one-half the number that is registered in the department of recent conchology.
The work of arranging the American series of fossils is now practically complete, and considerably over three-quarters of the collection is permanentl}* labeled.
The re-labeling of the entire series of fossils collected by the late Wm.
M. Gabb in Santo Domingo and California has been effected during the year, and much has been done toward re-determining the type fossils of the first New York survey, collected b}^ Mr. T. A. Conrad.
The largest and most important accession to this department is a collection of fossils from the Miocene and Pliocene formations of the State of Florida, collected in the early part of the year by the Curatorin-Charge, to whom leave of absence had been granted by the Academy for the purpose of prosecuting researches and collecting, in conjunction with the Wagner Free Institute of Science.
This collection, together with an extensive series of invertebrates dredged in the Gulf of Mexico and in the inland waters of the State, have not yet been placed in the Museum proper, but are temporarily deposited in a side room, where the specimens may be conveniently studied and determined.
This work is now accomplished in great part.
Some attention has been given during the year to the rearranging of the collections of Yertebrata.
The lizards have' been removed from the south wall of the second gallery to the east wall, and the amphibians to the north wall, thereby placing the collection of reptiles in a continuous series.
In the department of Ornithology, beyond a general oversight of the collections, no work has been accomplished.
Some four or five Dermestes-eaten specimens, which had apparently not been properly cured, have been permanently removed from the cases, being no longer fit for exhibition.
Barring such sporadic cases of destruction the collection is in a fairly good condition ; nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary that an early examination of all the specimens be made by an expert taxidermist, and such steps be taken as will insure the collection from further loss.
Work in the department of Vertebrate Paleontology has been almost exclusively restricted to the collections of mammals and fishes ; both of these have been entirely re-arranged, and are now much more accessible than they have been heretofore.
The large specimens of fossil reptiles from the Lias of England, the valuable gift of Dr. T. B. Wilson, which had been built up into cases on the main floor of the Museum, have been permanently placed on the wall surface of the vestibule, where they are displayed to good advantage.
It is designed to cover the remainder of the wall-space with two large maps, respectively illustrative of the geology of the national domain and of the zoogeographical regions of the earth's surface.
The undersigned has charged himself with the preparation of this work.
The collection of alcoholics is in good condition, the entire series having been overhauled as in previous years.
Considerable alteration has been made in the disposition of the cases throughout the Museum hall, and much floor space has been gained thereby ; but such gains are far from sufficient to satisfy the wants of the institution, the future usefulness of which will be largely impaired unless immediate aid toward the erection of an extension to the present building is aff'orded.
It is well within the truth to say that the existing collections, if properly displayed, would completely fill a building of twice the dimensions of the present one.
The large and very valuable collections of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey, contained in upwards of 200 cases, still remain in the cellar, boxed, for want of exhibition space.
The types of the greater number of the fossil plants described by Lesquereux in his Coal Flora of the United States, probably one of the most valuable collections of fossil plants in the world, have been added to this collection during the year, but, for similar reasons, still remain boxed.
The report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology indicates that accessions to this department of the Academy's Museum could readily be had were proper exhibition space provided, but that under present conditions the same is impossible.
In view of these facts the necessity for an extension to the Academy's building cannot be too strongly insisted upon.
Of equal importance to the future welfare of the institution is a fund designed for the purposes of zoogeographical exploration.
As suggested in our last report, the interest derived from a principal fund of $50,000 would fairly equip an annual expedition to any of the largely unexplored regions lying about our domain, such as Mexico, Central America, the Bahamas, Labrador, etc.
Only through this method of research can it be hoped to bring in large accessions of new material to the working naturalist, and thereby place him in direct relation with the problems of nature.
The success attending the Florida Expedition of the Wagner Free Institute of Science of this city, which was organized with the co-operation of the Academy in the winter of the present year, fully demonstrates the wisdom of such a plan of explorations, at the same time that it proves its ready feasibility and possible economic character.
Specimens have been loaned for study during the year to Profs.
Whitfield and Britton,of New York, to Profs.
Osborn and Scott, of Princeton, and to Messrs. Ridgeway and Yasey, of Washington, all of whom have rendered service to the institution in the determination and description of its specimens.
The Academy has also profited through the studies of three Jessup Fund beneficiaries, who have at various times rendered service to the Curator-in-Charge; to these persons the Curator-in-Charge begs to tender his thanks.
Very respectfully, Angelo Heilprin, Curator-inCharge.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. YAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S, Yaux collections respectfully submits his fourth annual report to the Council of the Academy of Natural Sciences : The collections are in good order and condition, no change having been made since the report of 1885, except the introduction of one hundred and fourteen mineral specimens, purchased by the approval of the Curators of the Academy, during the year ending November 30, 1886.
No.
of mineral specimens as by report of Nov. 30, 1885, 6,516 Purchased between Nov. 30, 1885, and Nov. 30, 1886, .
114 Total, ........ 6,630 Archaeological specimens (same as noted in report of 1885), no additions, 2,940 The growth of the collection since it came into possession of the Academy is as follows : Nov. 30, 1884, specimens purchased, .... 60 Nov. 30, 1885, specimens purchased, .... 104 Nov. 30, 1886, specimens purchased, .
.
.
.
114 In all, ........ 2*18 These 278 specimens have been purchased at an aggregate cost of $1448.70.
It will be conceded that the new material added to the mineralogical collection since 1883 has very materially improved its character, not only in beauty, but for scientific study.
Among the specimens most worthy of special note which have been added are a number of fine transparent crystals of Topaz from Siberia.
One of these is a crystal 1^ inches square, 2^ inches in height, on a matrix of Feldspar, coated with Albite; it is a well terminated rhombic prism, showing the basal cleavage planes with great beauty.
Also worthy of mention are a fine specimen of Zircon from Canada, weighing 12^ pounds, made up of a group of square prismatic crystals, measuring 3^x4 inches and 9^ inches in height ; a specimen of Stibnite from Japan, a cluster of long, well terminated crystals, with interesting modifications 2| by 3i inches, 18 inches long; specimens of Vanadinite, Wulfenite, and Descloizite, from Arizona ; emerald and Hiddenite from North Carolina.
The Tourmalines, Rutiles and Molybdenites, already well illustrated, have received rich addition.
A number of new species, not before represented in the collection, have been obtained together with many varieties from new localities.
All the income of the fund has been expended on the collection, except a balance in hand of $513.54, applicable to the purchase of new specimens and of books.
As the cases are now paid for and no other expense anticipated, the entire income can be used for the purchase of additional specimens and books, which will unless some unforeseen accident occui's always keep the collection up to a high standard of importance.
From a scientific point of view it is one of the best public collections in our country.
Respectfully submitted, Jacob Binder, Curator.
REPORT OF THE RECORDER OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
During the year the Section held fourteen meetings, with an average attendance of twelve persons.
At these meetings a great variety of objects was shown.
Especial notice should be made of the observations on embryology at various meetings by Messrs. Sharp, Wingate and Ryder ; upon the fungi, by Dr. Rex, and upon the different methods of mounting, by Drs.
Hall and Brinton.
The following are some of the more important events occurring during the year : December 21, 1885.
Lecture by Dr. Thomas Taylor, of the Agricultural Department, Washington, upon " The Work and Results in the Investigation of Butter and other Fats."
February 1, 1886.
Communication by Mr. H. Wingate, upon " The So-Called Visual Organs of the Amphioxus."
February 15, 1886.
Communication by Dr. M. B. Hartzell, upon "Glycerine as a Mounting Fluid."
Four lectures were delivered in course by Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon the " Special Senses," October 18.
Communication by Prof. J.
A. Ryder, upon " The Eggs of Pelagic P'ishes ;" by Mr. H. Wingate, upon " Cribraria purpura."
November 1.
Communication by Dr. L. B.
Hall, upon the ''Comparative Merits of Demar and Canada Balsam mounts;" by Prof. J.
A. Ryder, upon the " Moulting of the Lobster," also on a " New Section Cutter;" by Dr. J.
B. Brinton, upon a " New Cell for Opaque Objects."
November 15.
Communication by Dr. George A. Rex, upon " The Use of the Brass Cell."
Two new members were elected : Dr. Charles S. Dolley, Prof. John A. Ryder.
Mr. E. S. Campbell resigned as a contributor.
The Section passed a resolution of respect upon the death of Dr. J. G. Richardson, who, although not connected with the Section at the time of his death, had been at one time an active and useful member.
Very respectfully, Robert J. Hess, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that during the year ending December 1 , 1886, the Academy has continued the publication of conchological papers as heretofore.
The death of one member has occurred, that of Mrs. Lucy W. Sa.y, the venerable and esteemed widow of the eminent naturalist, Thomas Say, which occurred November 15th last, at the advanced age of 86 years.
No new members or correspondents have been elected, nor has there been any change in the By-Laws of the Section.
Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., Conservator, reports as follows : " During the past year, thirty-nine donations and purchases of shells have been received from twenty-six persons, aggregating 1252 trays and 7506 specimens.
A detailed list of these accessions is appended (see 'Additions to Museum ').
"Among them may be especially mentioned the purchase of nearl}^ 500 species from Greece and the eastern portion of the Mediterranean Sea, collected by Mr. Conemenos; and another purchase of 2*17 species from southern France and the western part of the Mediterranean, collected by M. Dollfus. "
From the Poljmesian and Australian regions we have received important collections from Mr. John Brazier, of Sydney, Australia, Mr. Andrew Garrett, of Papeete, Taheiti, and Mr. W. F. Petterd, of Hobart, Tasmania; these collections, numbering about 200 species, were mostly new to our museum. "
Shells of our own country have been received from Messrs. Binney, Dall, Dore, Ford, Hermann, Heilprin, Jefferis, Leidy, Mazyck, Morrison, Morse, Orcutt, Pilsbry, Quintard, Redfield, Rush, Sharp, Singley, Stearns, Thompson.
These collections embrace some of the new and rare species needed to complete our series, but for the most part add new localities for species alread}'^ possessed by us.
Your Conservator purchased from Mr. Sowerby, of London, and presented about 100 species, all new to us, and filling some important gaps in the collection. "
The Conchological Museum now contains 45,184 trays and written tablets, and 165,858 specimens.
"Mr. Frank Stout has, as usual, mounted and labeled the accessions of the year, and they have been distributed to the cases in the museum by Mr. Wm.
B. Marshall. "
The work of redetermining the collection, in connection with the preparation t)f monographs of the genera for the ' Manual of Conchology,' progresses steadily.
Our species of the families Calyptrseidse, Xenophoridae, Turritellidse, Csecidse, Vermetidae, Pyraraidellidse, Turbonillidae and Scalariidaj, have been carefully studied by your Conservator; the Solariidse by Mr. Marshall.
In the land shells, the Zonitidse have been completed, and a commencement made upon the Helicidse. "
In accordance with the new plan of arrangement of the Museum sketched in the last Annual Report, a considerable portion of the marine gastropods have been classified, both in the Systematic and Geographical Series, and the Synoptical Collection (a representation of the principal generic types, with printed descriptions of their characters) has been finished.
It is believed that for completeness, beauty of arrangement and adaptability to the needs of students, these several collections will compare favorably with similar ones in any other museum.
An index is intended to be added to the Synoptical Series, by the aid of which the student, after determining the genus of any specimen, will be referred to the case containing the species ; in the latter he will find represented, either by specimens or colored illustrations, all the (figured) species of the genus known to science, arranged in the order of their natural relationships.
"Much of the success of these features of arrangement is due to the efficient co-operation of my assistant, Mr. Marshall. "
Messrs. J. H. Redfield, S. R. Roberts and Wm.
L. Mactier, have contributed to the Section's collection of autograph letters of conchologists."
The officers of the Section for 1887 are Director, .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
Vice-Director, Recorder, Secretary , Treasurer , .
Librarian, .
Conservator, .
John Ford.
.
S. Raymond Roberts.
.
John H. Redfield.
.
Wm.
L. Mactier.
.
Edward J. Nolan.
.
Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr. All of which is respectfully submitted by S. Raymond Roberts, Recorder.
REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
(American Entomological Society.)
The Entomological Section of the Academy has experienced an improvement this 3'ear, in comparison with preceding ones.
The meetings, which have been regularly held, have been better attended, and a more general interest taken in the proceedings.
One member and five associates have been elected.
During the 3'ear the Section has lost two members by death.
Mr. Cbas.
Wilt, one of the deceased members, was one of the founders of the American Entomological Society, and had been very active in all the work of the Section.
His valuable collection of Coleoptera has been given by his son, Mr. H. C. Wilt, to the American Entomological Society, while the Lepidoptera were purchased at an almost nominal price by the same society.
The custodian of the societ}'' is now engaged in arranging these collections.
All duplicates will be set aside for placing in the public exhibition of 382 IfROCfiEDlNaS OP THE ACADEMY Of [1886. the AcjUleni}'.
This collection for public view is now assuming a more definite form than heretofore, through the earnest efforts of Mr. G. B. Cresson, the Custodian.
During the year twelve written communications have been accepted by the American Entomological Society for publication in its Transactions, which still continue to maintain their standard of previous years.
In addition to these, a work entitled " Synopsis of the Hymenoptera of North America," by Mr. E. T. Cresson, is being published by the society, in separate form, as an intercalary volume.
The display made b}^ the Section at the exhibition of the Microscopical Section was of great interest to those present.
At the meeting held in December, the following officers were elected for the year 1887 : Director, Vice-Director, Recorder, .
Treasurer, .
Conservator, .
Geo.
H. Horn, M.D.
.
Rev.
H. C. McCook, D. D. .
J. H. Ridings.
.
E. T. Cresson.
.
H. Skinner, M. D. Respectfully presented, J. H. Ridings, Becorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports that the prosperity noted in past 3^ears still continues, chiefly through the voluntary work of its active members.
The Conservator's account, adopted as part of this report, shows a very gratifying growth in the Herbarium, which is one of which the Academy may be proud.
The membership, with some few additions and losses, remains about the same as last year.
The Section is wholly free of debt, and has a balance in the treasury.
Meetings have been held regularlj'on the second Monday evening in each month, except during the summer recess, and manj^ new or interesting facts in botany have been brought to the notice of members some of which have been thought worth}" of recording in the Proceedings of the Academj^ The oflficers elected for the ensuing year are : Director, .
.
.
W. S, W. Ruschenberger, M. D. Vice-Director^ .
.
Thomas Meehan.
Recorder, .
.
.
Chas.
Schaffer, M. D. Treasurer, .
.
.
Isaac C. Martindale.
Conservator, .
.
.
John H. Redfield.
Respectfully submitted, Thomas Meehan, Vice-Director.
Conservator's Report for 1886.
The Conservator of the Botanical Section reports that the donations to the Herbarium, during the year just closed, consist of 2452 species of plants, of which 2433 are of phanerogams and vascular cryptogams, and 19 of lichens.
Of these, T26 species are new to the collection, and among them are representatives of 40 new genera.
Of the 2452 species, 847 are North American, 858 are from Tropical and South America, and 747 are from the Old World.
The total number of species of phanerogams and vascular cryptogams now in the Herbarium is estimated at 26,189.
A list of the donations for the year is appended to this report.
Among them may be specified 232 species of North American grasses from the U. S. Department of Agriculture at Washington, embracing 73 new species.
These, with a collection of 54 species, made b}^ F. Tweedy in the Yellowstone Park, make our series of N. American grasses unusuall}^ complete.
From Dr. A Gray, of the Harvard University Herbarium, we have received about 300 species from the Old and the New World, embracing many novelties.
Members of our Section have presented two fine collections made by Pringle and by Palmer in the Mexican province of Chihuahua, consisting of 710 species, of which 267 are new to us, and a very choice collection of South African plants made b}Miss M. E. Cummings, nearly one-half of which were not in our Herbarium.
Mr Aubrey H. Smith has presented us 154 species which he collected in Colorado, New Mexico, and California (see Additions to Museum).
The work of mounting the specimens in the North American Herbarium is still continued, and considerable progress has been made during the past year with the assistance of Mr. Burk.
During this period the N. America species of Gyperus have been carefully revised by Prof. Britton, of Columbia College, New York ; and the perplexing species of Paspalum, bj' Dr, Vasej'^, of Washington.
Dr. John W. Eckfeldt has continued his special care of the lichens of the Academy, adding to their number, and has so arranged and catalogued the several collections of this order, as greatly to facilitate reference.
Similar work is greatly needed for the remaining order of the lower Cryptogams.
John H. Redfield, Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences would respectfully report that meetings have been held regularly during the year, but that owing to the enforced absence of several of the more active members the attendance has not been as great as formerly.
The additions to the cabinet, while not as numerous as in former years, have been considerable and valuable.
A number of them have been purchased with the funds of the Section.
Respectfully submitted, Theo.
D. Rand, Director.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that during the 3'ear he has delivered a course of lectures, with practical demonstrations, on geology and paleontology, which course was supplemented by a number of field excursions in the surroundings of Philadelphia.
A special excursion, designed for the purposes of original investigation, and extending over a period of two weeks, was conducted during the month of July to Nantucket and Martha's Vine3'ard, resulting in valuable acquisitions of both zoological and geological material.
Special attention was directed to the study of the fossiliferous deposits of the Island of Nantucket, with the result of demonstrating the erroneousness of the hitherto described sections of those deposits.
The data obtained during this trip will be published in the Proceedings of the Academy.
The collections of the Academy in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology have been, as far as arrangement and classification are concerned, materially improved during the year ; the entire series of fossils pertaining to American geology is now readily accessible, and in a condition for easy reference.
More than three-fourths of this collection are permanently labeled.
Roughly estimated, the collections in this department, embracing both foreign and American fossils, occupy upwards of 20,000 trays, and are probably second to no other collection in importance in this country.
Special importance attaches to the series of Cretaceous and Tertiary fossils, especiall}' the latter, in which are included probably four-fifths of all the types that have been described from this country.
The Paleozoic fauna is, on the other hand, very inadequately represented, although the collections of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey, now deposited with the institution, will add very materiall}'' to this section when displayed.
Further reference to the collections in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology is contained in the report of the Curators of the Academy.
Very respectfully, Angelo Heilprin, Trof.
of Invertebrate Faleontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INYERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that during the past year he has delivered a course of ten lectures on the " Special Senses."
He further reports that the collections under his charge have somewhat increased.
36 There is a good collection of marine invertebrates, not yet officially presented to the Academy, from the West Coast of Florida, collected in the spring of this year by Prof. Angelo Heilprin.
A course of ten or twelve lectures will be given in the spring of the coming year (March and April), the subject being " Sense Organs in the Animal Kingdom."
Very respectfull}-, Benjamin Sharp, Professor of Invertebrate Zoology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
During the last year two short courses of lectures were delivered in the rooms of the Academy, one on the General Principles of Ethnology, the second on the special topic of American Archaeology.
The latter was illustrated by numerous specimens from the collections of the Academy.
Both were reasonably well attended, and it is believed that an increasing interest is shown in these subjects.
Som'e material was added to the collections in this department during the year, but the same difficulty mentioned in the last report, has interfered with obtaining as manj^ specimens as would be practicable that is to say, a lack of space for their proper accommodation and display.
Respectfulljsubmitted, D. G. Brinton, M. D., Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology.
SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM.
C. HEJ^SZEY, TREASURER, For the Year Ending Nov. 30, 1886.
Cr.
By Salaries, Janitors, etc $3265 76 Printing and Binding Proceedings, etc 1431 87 Printing and Stationery , 154 79 Repairs 86 36 Plates and Engravings 71 75 Gas 9140 Postage 142 44 Coal 775 00 Paper Boxes and Trays 73 43 Glass 6 35 Insurance 55 00 Freight 68 41 Alcohol 70 50 State Taxes on Mortgage Investments 123 48 Examination of Title to West Virginia Lands 100 00 Water Rents 33 35 Miscellaneous 635 65 Inspection of Boiler 10 20 Prof. Angelo Heilprin.
Lecture Fees 62 50 Benjamin Sharp, M. D. " " 15 00 D. G. Brinton, M. D. " " 38 00 Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership Fund 150 00 Dr. To Balance from last account |892 15 Initiation Fees 120 00 Contributions ( semi-annual) 1489 97 Life Memberships 150 00 Admissions to Museum 259 54 Publication Committee Sales of Proceedings, Journal, etc 645 40 Microscopical and Biological Section Donation.... 50 00 State Taxes on Mortgages 113 09 Interest (Joshua T. Jeanes' Legacy) 900 00 17460 73 Freights returned 11 11 Miscellaneous 1 05 Prof. Angelo Heilprin.
Lecture Fees 62 50 Benj.
Sharp, M. D. " (< 15 00 D. G. Brinton, M. D. " (( 38 00 Wilson Fund.
Toward Salary of Librarian .. 300 00 Publication Fund.
Interest on Investments .. 340 00 Barton Fund. "
(( u .
240 00 Life Membership Fund. "
(( (( .. 165 00 Maintenance Fund.
*' <( (( .. 205 00 Eckfeldt Fund. "
ii ( < .. 125 00 Stott Legacy Fund. "
(( (( .. 100 00 Balance overdrawn.
.
.
6222 81 $1237 93 LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND.
(For Maintenance.)
Income from Investments $ 1 G5 00 Life Membership transferred from General Account 150 00 $315 00 Balance overdrawn last statement 1100 00 Transferred to General Account 165 00 2G5 00 Balance $50 00 BARTON FUND.
Interest from Investments $ 240 00 Transferred to General Account 240 00 JESSUP FUND.
(For Assistance of Students.)
Disbursements $ 795 00 Balance per last statement $234 01 Interest from Investments 560 00 794 01 Balance overdrawn 99 MAINTENANCE FUND.
Income from Investments $ 205 00 Legacy of Jno.
L. Neill, deceased, on account 5100 00 $5305 00 Transferred to General Account 205 00 Balance for Investment $5100 00 ECKFELDT FUND.
Income from Investments $ 125 00 Transferred to General Account 125 00 MUSEUM FUND.
Balance per last statement $ 55 00 Income from Investments 50 00 $105 00 I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance last statement $2016 50 Rents collected 1013 92 Ground-rents collected 841 55 $3871 97 Books $1192 12 Repairs to Houses 241 09 Taxes and Water-rents 202 01 Binding 120 40 Collecting 92 77 1848 39 Balance (Principal, awaiting investment, $1750.00) $2023 58 THOMAS B. WILSON LIBKARY FUND.
Balance overdrawn as per last statement $ 272 33 Cash paid George N. Lawrence, New York 96 40 Cash paid B. Westermann & Co., New York, Books 100 04 Cash transferred to General Account toward Salaiy of Librarian, 300 00 1768 77 Less Henry Sothem & Co., London $ 96 69 Interest on Investments 525 00 621 69 Balance overdrawn $147 08 PUBLICATION FUND.
Balance per last statement $ 225 00 City of Philadelphia Loan, July 10, 1868, No.
2945 paid off.
500 00 Interest from Investments 340 00 $1065 00 Transferred to General Account 340 00 Balance for investment $725 00 STOTT LEGACY FUND.
Income from Investments $100 00 Transferred to General Account 100 00 WM.
S. VAUX FUND.
Balance per last statement , $512 08 Interest on Investments 600 00 $1,112 08 Cash paid for Minerals .
.
.
, 599 54 Balance $512 54 H, N. JOHNSON FUND.
Balance overdravim last statement $ 221 81 Disbursements 1800 85 $2022 66 Interest on Mortgage $ 26 84 Cash received, to entering satisfaction on Mortgage.
.
50 Rents Collected 1441 96 Ground Rents Collected 189 00 $1658 30 Balance overdrawn $364 36 The H. N. Johnson Estate was indebted for -^^ of a mortgage of $6000 to Charles J. Wister, the proportion being $1600, which was settled by W. N. Johnson's mortgage to Academy, $1500, and the payment of 100 in cash, and both mortgages were satisfied of Record.
390 [1886.
The election of OflScers, Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee, to serve during 1887, was held, with the followina: result : President, Vice-Preside7its, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Curators, Councillors to serve three years, .... Finance Committee, M.D.
Joseph Leidy, M. D. Thomas Meehan, Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D. Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
George H. Horn, M. D. William C. Henszey.
Edward J. Nolan, M. D. Joseph Leid}'^, M. D. Jacob Binder, W. S. W. Ruschenberger Angelo Heilprin.
George Y. Shoemaker, Aubrey H. Smith, George A. Koenig, Ph.
D. George A. Rex, M. D. Isaac C. Martindale, Aubrey H. Smith, S. Fisher Corlies, George Y. Shoemaker, Wm.
W. Jefferis.
