FOLIAL ORIGIN OF CAULINE STRUCTURES.
The endeavor to conceive axial and foliar organs as morphologically distinct, leads to difficulties easily surmounted by the conception that every part of a plant is but modified leaf-blade.
In striving to regard stem and leaf as essentially distinct entities, we become wholly lost in studying the genesis of the tendril, and we are compelled to say of them they " may be axial or they may not.
This may ordinarily be determined by position.
Any direct continuation of stem or branch must be of an axial nature, that is, of the nature of stem ; and the same is true of whatever primarily develops in the axis of a leaf.
Conversely, whatever subtends a lateral axis or branch may be taken for a leaf or foliar production being in the place of such."
3 But the difficulty of carrying this idea along to a consistent conclusion becomes apparent at p. 118 of the work cited, where the tendrils of Cucurbitacese are pronounced " peculiar and ambiguous, on account of their lateral and extra-axillary position and the manner in which the compound ones develop their branches."
That a leaf and stem must be morphologically the same seems proven by the well-known fact that leaves often develop into stems.
The author has seen buds at the ends of the leaves of the Japan Umbrella Pine, Sciadopitys, and a large number of species of plants are raised by florists from leaves of which Begonia is a familiar example.
The section of an articulated stem of Opuntia is technically stem ; yet the flower which, morphologically stated, is but a " bundle of leaves," often shows that it is simply a whole section metamorphosed.
We call the deciduous portions of Taxodium distichum " leafy branchlets " simply because the least vigorous ones perish.
If all were to fall, they would be regarded as pinnate leaves, and it is barely necessary to refer to the fact that numerous plants bear flowers on the leaves, as a tree of the Jujube, Ziziphus vulgaris, before the author as he writes, amply illustrates.
By adopting the hypothesis that a tendril is always cauline, we shall have to admit that stem is of folial origin in a study of Bignoniaceous plants.
A number of species have trifoliate leaves when 3 Gray's Structural Botany, 1879, p. 54. the branches are comparatively weak, but when they have gathered strength the terminal leaflets develop into a stroug tendril.
For instance in Bignouia venusta " the leaves are opposite ; lower ones ternate and without tendrils, upjier ones conjugate or pinnate with one pair of leaflets, and furnished with tendrils."
The quotation is from the Botanical Magazine, Vol.
46, p. 249, so that those who have not the plant at hand, may see the different forms of leaves in the plate.
The one leaf has become a petiole, and is again trifid at the apex — these branchlets again becoming leaflets in other species.
Whoever has had the opportunity to study some of the strong growing Bignoniaceae of Central America, must be fully impressed with the woody character of these tendrils.
They are as truly ligneous as are those of Vitacese, which are conceded to be of axial origin.
When, therefore, we find a plant with a leaf normally trifoliate, transform the terminal leaflet into a permanent woody tendril, it is difficult to understand the necessity for the " abnormal and exceptional " view of these cases.
If we say leaf-blade is the foundation of all cauliue structure, we are not surprised when a leaflet of Bignonia becomes of the nature of stem, and we are not left to mere position on the axis before we can determine the origin of what is actually the same thing.
