MOUNT LAUREL.
N. J.
BY C. W. JOHNSON.
The following material was obtained by Mr. Lewis Wool man from tLe borings of an artesian well on the farm of Mrs. Samuel Shreeve, Mount Laurel, Burlington County, N. J.
The well was put down on the 70 feet contour near the base of the southern slope of Mount Laurel.
The following section, published by Mr. Woolman, 1 was given him by the contractor, Mr. Wm.
C. Barr: — Commenced in the bottom of a dug well at the depth of... 25 feet.
Reddish-gray sand 31 feet — 56 feet.
Black clay 175 feet = 231 feet.
A few molluscan fossils at about 100 feet.
Numerous mollusks at 150 " Matawan cla 7 marls ' y § to 160 feet.
Tough green clay 30 feet = 262 feet Dark-bluish clay 42 feet = 304 feet J Gray sand, water bearing 2 feet = 306 feet.
Sewell water horizon.
Stopped on a whitish clay.
Mr. Woolman states that : " The whitish clay on which this boring stopped is probably equivalent in horizon with certain alternating laminse of whitish clays and sands that were found near the bases of the wells at the Wenonah Hotel and at Sewell.
Beneath these laminae, at the last two named localities, occur coarse sands and gravels with large pebbles, forming an open stratum from which an abundant and excellent supply of water is obtained.
The water horizon reached at Mount Laurel may be considered as practically the same.
We have designated this as the Sewell water horizon.
Its position is at the base of the Matawan clay marls and the top of the Raritan plastic clay series, and has a thickness, if we may judge by the boring at Sew r ell, of at least forty feet."
A comparison of these fossils with those obtained by the writer for the Museum of the Wagner Free Institute of Science from the banks of theChattahoochie River, below Eufaula, Alabama, shows that this 1 Report on Artesian Wells in New Jersey, by Lewis Woolman, from the Geol.
Survey of N. J. Ann.
Rept.
for 1897, p. 262.
462 [1898. fossiliferous stratum is equivalent to the Ripley bed of Alabama, Mississippi aud Texas, which is also represented in North Carolina, especially at Snow Hill, Greene County.
2 The following is a list of fossils obtained from the well : — Ostrea plumosa Morton.
Exogyra costata Say.
Anomia tellinoides Morton.
Camptonectes burlingtonensis Gabb.
Pinna sp.
?
Pteria sp.
?
Trigoniarca cuneata Gabb.
Pectunculus sp.
?
Nucula percrassa Conrad.
Nucula sp.
?
Leda sp.
?
Trigonia thoracica Morton.
Lucina cretacea Conrad.
Cardlum eufaulense Conrad.
Veniella conradi Morton.
Veleda lintea Conrad.
Leptosolen biplicata Conrad.
Legumen sp.
?
Corbula crassiplicata Gabb.
Cinulia costata n. sp.
(fig.
1).
Cinulia costata Johnson, n. sp.
264, name only.
Shell with four whorls, spire prominent, body whorl with from 12 to 13 revolving grooves, which form an equal number of smooth, flat, revolving costse ; these average about double the width of the grooves.
In one specimen the third and fifth costse from the suture are almost twice the width of the others, and the two lower costse divided by a minute, impressed line.
The first spiral whorl has six, and the second five, revolving grooves.
Apical whorl smooth, suture deeply impressed.
Aperture narrow, oblique, lip broad, thick and crenulated on the inner margin with eight small teeth-like projections, and extend' Conrad, in Kerr's Geology of North Carolina, Appendix, Vol.
I, 1875.
Corbula jotdhei Lea.
Dentalium sp.
?
Cinulia costata n. sp.
Pyrifustis mbdensatus Conrad.
A lai'ia rostrata Gabb.
Anchura sp.
?
(expansion of outer lip only).
Anchura ?
pergracilis n. sp.
Pugnellus densatus Conrad.
Lunatia halli Gabb.
Trichotropis cancellaria Conrad.
Scalaria sillimani Morton.
Turritella vertebroides Morton.
Turritella quadrilira n. sp.
Tuba(l) reticulata n. sp.
Placentaceras placenta Dekay.
Hamulus squamosum Gabb.
Platytrochus speciosns Gabb & Horn.
Annual Kept.
Geol.
Sur.
N. J., 1897, page 1898] 463 ing to the suture where it joins the callus of the peristome, which is continuous to the base of the columella ; base with two oblique folds, above which is a prominent fold or plate extending at almost right angles to the columella ; between this and the posterior angle of the aperture is a small, tooth-like projection.
Alt.
4, diam.
2} mill.
Three adults and two juvenile specimens in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Anchura?
pergracilis n. sp.
(fig.
2).
Anchura sp.
?
(young).
Annual Kept.
Geol.
Survey N. J., 1897, page 264.
Shell fusiform, whorls convex, the body whorl with about 18 and the spiral whorls with 15 equidistant, flexuous, longitudinal ribs ; numerous fine revolving lines, more prominent between the ribs, and somewhat obsolete on the angles of the ribs, cover the entire shell ; suture deeply impressed.
The length of the largest specimen (including the two apical whorls, which are wanting), is about 20 mill.
I would hesitate in describing this young shell if it were possible to determine the shells of this group from the figures and description of the casts that have already been described.
This species can always be determined, but in identifying casts when the external characters are unknown, there is always moie or less doubt, even when one has access to the types.
Anchura sp.
?
This species is represented only by a fragment, the expanded portion of the outer lip.
This resembles somewhat that of Anchura abrupta Conrad (Jour.
Acad.
Natural Sciences, 2d series, IV, 284, pi.
47, fig.
1), but has on the lower or anterior edge a small projection or angle near the base (fig.
3), but no downward projection at the end.
It probably represents a new species.
Length of specimen, Tumtella quadrilira n. spTurritella quadrilira Johnson, n. sp.
Annual Rept.
Geol.
Sur.
N. J., 1897, page 264, name only.
This species closely resembles the Turritella trilira Conrad of the Ripley bed, but is at once distinguished by having jour instead of three equidistant revolving lirre; it also differs in being perfectly Fig.
2. smooth between the costse, while the lens shows the interstices of T. t'ilira to have numerous, minute, raised revolving lines.
The specimens are all greatly broken, the largest, showing five whorls, is 14 mill, in length, but the fragments indicate that it probably attains the size of the average T. trilira, about 50 mill.
Tuba?
reticulata n. ap.
Tuba ?
reticulata Johnson, n. sp.
Annual Rept.
Geol.
Sur.
N. J., 1897, page 264, name only.
Whorls very convex, with four equidistant, revolving, raised lines, which are crossed by equidistant longitudinal ribs of a corresponding size, which form equal, quadrate interstices, except below the suture where the longitudinal ribs become obsolete.
At the junction of the two series of raised lines are small tubercles throughout the entire shell.
Owing to the imperfect apertures of the five specimens, its generic position remains doubtful, but its distinct sculpture will distinguish the species.
Length of the largest specimens, 6 mill.
; probably attains the length of about 10 mill.
Trigonia thoraoica Morton.
Trigonia eufalensis Gabb.
There seems to be considerable confusion regarding these forms.
That T. eufalensis Gabb is only the young of T. thoracica Morton can be readily proven by the large suite collected by the writer at Eufaula and Prairie Bluff, Alabama.
Morton's type came from the latter locality.
The species recorded from Reeve's clay bank near Lenola, N. J., is T. thoracica, not T. mortoni Whitfield.
1898.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
465 October 4.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
October 11.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair Thirty-six persons present.
October 18.
J. Cheston Morris, M. D., in the Chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
A paper entitled "Some Cuban Species of Cerion," by H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta was presented for publication.
A Memorial of Dr. Joseph Lekly.
— Dr. Nolan presented to the Academy as a memorial of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy, five volumes of biographical notices, portraits, autograph letters and original drawings.
The contents of the volumes in detail are as follows : Volume I.
1.
Biographical notices by J. Parrish, M. D., New Jersey Medical Exporter, 1853; Henry C. Chapman, M. D., Proceedings of the Academy, June 30, 1891 ; Wm.
Hunt, M. D., before the Alumni and Students of the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania, Nov. 17, 1891 ; W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D., Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, April 25, 1892 ; Dr. Persifor Frazer, American Geologist, January, 1892 ; Jos.
Wharton, before the graduating class of 1891 atSwarthmore College ; George A. Piersol, M. D., to the classes of the Medical and Dental Departments of the University of Pennsylvania, October, 1891 ; from the International Clinic, July, 1891.
2.
Transcripts of the original manuscripts of the memorial addresses delivered at a special meeting of the Academy, May 12, 1891, in recognition of Dr. Leidy's long continued service to it.
1 They consist of papers by Dr. William Hunt on the personal history of the subject of the memorial, by Dr. Harrison Allen on his work in comparative anatomy, by Dr. H. C. Chapman on his work in invertebrate anatomy, by Professor Angelo Heilprin on his 1 These papers were not published because of the appointment of Dr. Chapman to prepare for the Proceedings a biographical notice which, with much else, combined and epitomized the matter of the memorial addresses.
work in geology and paleontology, by Joseph Willcox on his work in mineralogy, by Dr. James Darrach on his work in botany, and by Dr. Edw.
J. Nolan on his services to the Academy with comments on his personal character.
3.
These are followed by a verbatim report of a conversation held with Dr. Nolan, October 29, 1867, when Dr. Leidy related in detail and with the exquisite candor and simplicity which were characteristic, the details of his life up to that time.
The notes were made by Dr. Nolan immediately on the conclusion of the interview with fulness and accuracy, and form a most interesting autobiographical contribution to the volume, being much more intimate and detailed than the texts of the published notices.
4.
Manuscript of the last paper contributed by Dr. Leidy to the Proceedings of the Academy, 1891, pp.
234 et seq.
5.
Autograph letters, and " Notes upon daily scientific observations, commenced March 1, 1846."
6.
Letter from Dr. Levick regarding Dr. Leidy's last illness.
7.
Valedictory Address, March 27, 1858.
8.
Detailed index.
Volume II.
Botanical drawings and notes, including representations of plasmodia, algse (Diatoms, Schizophytes, Desmids, Protococcus, Confervoids, Vaucheria), fungi, ferns and angiosperms.
Volume III.
Zoological drawings and notes.
Infusoria (Flagellata, Ciliata, Sectoria, Atricha, including forty-five originals of the figures in the Freshwater Rhizopods of North America, Rhizopoda), sponges, and one hundred and seventy-six unpublished illustrations of gregarines from twenty-one hosts, a most valuable contribution to a monograph of these parasites.
Volume IV.
Zoological drawings and notes, continued.
Hydrozoa, ctenophors, bryozoa, worms (Platyelminthes, Nematilminthes).
Volume V. Zoological drawings and notes, continued.
Worms (Annulata), arthropods, (Rotatoria, Crustacea, Arachnoidea, Insecta), mollusks, fishes, reptiles, and mammals.
The botanical material has been arranged by Dr. J. W. Harshberger according to the classification of Warming's Handbook of Systematic Botany, while the zoological drawings have been placed by Dr. Nolan in accordance with Cams and Gerstaecker.
Exhaustive indexes have been prepared and bound with the volumes.
Much the greater part of the drawings and notes have been contributed by Mrs. Joseph Leidy, to whom the thanks of the Academy are due for thus providing for the preservation of these interesting relics of her distinguished husband.
Dr. Leidy is unquestionably the most prominent figure in the history of the Academy.
This distinction is due not only to the variety, extent and value of his scientific work, but also because of his long connection with the executive offices of the society, as fully set forth in the several biographical notices included in the first volume of the memorial.
It is, of course, through his scientific work that he will he known to succeeding generations, but the personal qualities of the man : his humility, his charity, his integrity, and his transparent truthfulness can only be fully appreciated by those who were thrown into daily communication with him.
It is fitting that these volumes should be placed in the Academy, where nearly all of Dr. Leidy's work was done, as an evidence of his artistic ability and the diversity of his scientific interests, for they not only contain exquisite specimens of draughtsmanship but the drawings belong to nearly every department of natural history from Myxomycetes to Man.
October 25.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair.
Forty persons present.
Dr. D. G. Brinton made a communication on the ethnology of the Philippine Islands.
(No abstract).
Prof. J. Wharton James and Prof.
Win.
Libbey, Jr. spoke of the Enchanted Mesa.
(No abstract).
The following were elected members : D. M. Barringer, George C. Thomas, Lincoln Godfrey, Henry Emerson Wetherill and MissEmeline Maddock.
The following were ordered to be published : NEW SPECIES OE DIATOMS.
BY CHARLES S. BOYER.
RHABDONEMA.
Rhabdonema Woolmanianum n. sp.
Boyer.
Valve oblong, with sharply crenulate margin, punctate, the puncta in transverse rows, about 6 in .01 ram.
Pseudoraphe indistinct.
Septa perforate, connected with each other usually near alternate ends by straight transverse diaphragms.
L. of V. .155 ram.
to .231 ram.
Fossil in the Miocene deposit from an artesian well at Asbury Park, N. J., at a depth of 40 ft. Not uncommon.
Approaches R. hamuliferum Kitton and R. Musica Brum, but it does not show either hooked septa as in the former nor curves resembling musical notes as in the latter.
It also differs in the character of the margin and in size, being four or five times larger than either.
Plate XXIV, figs.
1, la, lb.
BIDDULPHIA.
Biddulphia interrupta n. sp.
Boyer.
Valve elliptical, with small, rounded processes.
Surface convex, finely punctate, the puncta about 10 in .01 mm., radiating in scattered lines from the centre at which are three minute spines.
About one-third the distance from centre to processes, at each end, a hyaline band produced by the interruption of puncta, crosses the valve transversely extending nearly to the sides.
L. ofV.
.112 mm.
Campeachy Bay.
Rare.
Plate XXIV, fig.
2.
Biddulphia verrucosa n. sp.
Boyer.
Valve suborbicular, convex.
Processes very large, cylindrical, truncate.
Surface coarsely reticulate, the reticulations unequal, irregular, about 2 in .01 mm.
Within the reticulations are coarse puncta abont 3 in .01 mm.
L. ofV.
.138 mm.
Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal.
Very rare.
This form, which approaches the Geratmdus group, is distinguished by the incrusted or warty appearance of the surface.
Plate XXIV, fig.
5.
Biddulphia Keeleyi n. sp.
Boyer.
Valve broadly rhombic-elliptical, rounded at the ends.
Surface slightly convex, without depression, reticulated, the reticulations unequal, hexagonal, about 2 in .01 mm., with puncta within the reticulations about 8 in .01 mm.
Three stout spines are placed on each side near the margin.
Processes inflated at the base, small at the apex and placed not at the ends of the valve but obliquely opposite, near the ends.
L. ofV.
.148 mm.
U. S. S. " Tuscarora" Soundings, Lat.
36° 12' N., Long.
123° 11' W., 1,605 faths.
Also coast of California.
Rare.
Only two specimens have been noticed, one of which was found by Mr. F. J. Keeley on seaweed from California.
Plate XXIV fig.
4.
Biddulphia Argus n. sp.
Boyer.
Valve broadly elliptical, convex, with an elliptical depression at centre.
Surface finely reticulate, the reticulations, more or less hexagonal, about 3 in .01 mm.
at the border, and 5 in .01 mm.
at the centre from which they radiate in curved lines.
The central depression is encircled by from ten to twelve short spines.
Processes rather short and obtuse.
L. of V. .165 mm.
Port Antonio, Jamaica.
Not common.
Distinguished chiefly by the central spines and by the size of the reticulations, whence the name.
It approaches B. Roperiana Grev.
Plate XXIV, fig.
6.
Biddulphia semicircularis Asburyana n. var.
Boyer.
Valve arcuate with the ends produced and elevated into rounded processes.
Surface not divided by costate lines, convex, punctate, the puncta rounded about 6 in .01 mm.
near the hyaline ex centric space from which they radiate irregularly, increasing in size to about 1 j in .01 mm.
at the margin where they are irregular and occasionally confluent.
L. of V. .181 mm.
Fossil in the Miocene deposit from the artesian well at Asbury Park, N. J. at a depth of 40 ft. Not uncommon.
Quite distinct from Euodia produeta Grun.
and from B. semicircidaris (Br.)
in the irregularity of the produced ends, in their elevation into processes, in the size, shape and distribution of the puncta and in the absence of costse.
Plate XXIV, fig.
3.
Biddulphia Shulzei n. sp.
Bo3'er.
Valve elliptical, slightly raised toward the centre, with a large rounded process-like elevation at each end.
Surface punctate, the puncta rounded, oblong, averaging 5 in .01 mm., but for the most part scattered, leaving numerous hyaline spaces, one of which appears as an indefinite, indistinct transverse band at the base of each process.
Owing to the irregularity in the distribution of the puncta the circumference of the valve appears to show a scalloped border.
L. of V. .115 mm.
In the character of its markings it approaches Tabulina Testudo Brun.
from which it is distinguished by having but two processes and in being without the hyaline lines which cross the valve in the latter.
Fossil in the artesian well deposit at Weymouth, N. J. I have seen but one specimen which was found by Mr. John A. Shulze who also discovered a variety having two processes at one end and one at the other.
Plate XXIV, figs.
7, 8.
There appears to be no special reason why either this form or that known as Tabulina Testudo Brun.
should be separated from the genus Biddulphia.
The hyaline lines are not always definite even in Tabulina Testudo, while the variety in which but three processes appear clearly indicates an approach toward the type of Biddulphia.
Explanation of Plate XXIV.
Fig.
1.
Rhabdonema Woolmanianum Boyer, valve view, x 284.
Fig.
la.
Rhabdonema Woolraauianum, septum, x 284.
Fiff.
lb.
Rhabdonema Woolmanianum, zonal view, x 284.
Fig.
2.
Biddulphia interrupta Boyer.
x310.
Fig.
3.
Biddulphia semicircularis Asburyana Boyer.
x 300.
Fig.
4.
Biddulphia Keeleyi Boyer.
x 300.
Fig.
5.
Biddulphia verrucosa Boyer.
x 302.
Fig.
6.
Biddulphia Argus Boyer.
x 330.
Fig.
7.
Biddulphia Shulzei Boyer, var.
x 475.
Fig.
8.
Biddulphia Shulzei Boyer.
x475.
