THE GROWTH OF VIBURNUM LANTANOIDES Michx.
BY IDA A. KELLER.
During a visit to Lake Ganoga, Sullivan County, Pa., last August, I found nothing more plentiful than the hobble-bush, Viburnum Iantanoides.
The long branches of this plant with their large roundovate leaves, the brown naked winter buds, at that time already fully developed, and the clusters of the then red berries were everywhere conspicuous.
There is something strikingly characteristic about the species.
It is described in Gray's Manual as a " straggling bush " and in Britton & Brown's Flora as "a bush of irregular growth."
On collecting and comparing a sufficient number of specimens I came to the conclusion that there is some peculiar tendency at the bottom of this apparent irregularity and that law and order prevail in the growth of this seemingly eccentric species.
Although some shoots differ so widely from others that they seem hardly to belong to the same kind of plant it is by no means a difficult matter to find the necessary connecting links.
The accompanying illustrations, although diagrammatic, are directly drawn from nature and by means of these I have endeavored to show that this so called "irregular growth " is chiefly due to a peculiar method of ramification on the one hand, and to a tendency to the suppression of the growth of the main axis on the other.
Plate XXV, fig.
1 represents a form frequently occurring in younger plants.
A main axis and two lateral branches are conspicuously developed.
The important point to observe is the continued growth of the main axis after ramification, which even surpasses that of the branches.
It may be noticed incidentally at this point that the axis ends with three buds, which are represented on a larsrer scale in fig.
6.
It must also be observed that the axes of the lateral branches cease to indicate vigorous growth after again branching.
These axes terminate at a'.
Attention must also be called to the fact that on the ends of the branches marked b' there appear but two instead of three buds.
Fig.
7, which represents these buds on a larger scale, is a repetition of fig.
6 with one of the lateral buds obliterated.
1 The lateral bud in each case shows a 1 The suppressed lateral bud occurs occasionally as a rudiment.
See figs.
8 and 9. greater elongation of the stem than the central bud.
It thus foreshadows the precedence which it takes in the future development of the plant.
It can be readily observed that the suppressed lateral bud is the one next the main axis of branch b.
Comparing fig.
4 with fig.
1, a decided difference in the relative growth of the main axis and its branches is to be observed.
This difference is still further emphasized by such shoots as the one represented by fig.
3.
From the foregoing, fig.
5 represents a striking contrast in some respects.
Here we find a short axis terminated at a, with long lateral branches which are studded with branchlets along their upper side.
Fig.
2 is the necessary connecting link.
This was taken from a low bush with a very short main axis.
The right lateral branch resembles fig.
5, while the lateral branch to the left is quite similar to the branches of fig.
1.
Plate XXV, fig.
5 explains itself if we recall the two buds of fig.
7.
We can readily see that this effect is produced by the vigorous growth of the lateral bud with little or no growth of the main axis.
The axes of the branches in their turn are suppressed when the next ramification occurs and the energy of growth is again transferred to the lateral branch of the next series.
We have thus produced a so-called false axis, i. e. an axis which is successively formed from the lateral branches of the main axis, the latter continuing to exist with little or no growth.
This is well known to botanists as the sympodial method of branching and is observable in many of our forest trees.
In making the drawings I was struck with their resemblance to the diagrammatic representations, found in many of our text books, of the cyme, in which the oldest flower terminates the stem while the main growth continues laterally.
Compare, e. g., fig.
4, with the little axillary clusters of Weigelia or the inflorescence of the Caryophyllacese.
Furthermore a peculiar modification of the cyme is well known as the monochasium in which there is but one lateral ramification.
This finds its parallel in fig.
7.
The monochasium repeats itself indefinitely and here also this peculiar method of branching has a decided tendency to continue until at times we have a false axis whose length is to be measured by the yard.
It is curious that the lateral branch which carries on the growth is always on the same side of the axis and thus the case is further comparable to the helicoid uniparouscyme in which the flowers (here represented by a, a', a", etc.)
always fall on the same side of the rhachis.
2 I mention the similarity between this kind of inflorescence and the sympodial method of branching of this species particularly because the inflorescence of Viburnum belongs to the cymose type.
The comparison is interesting if not of greater significance.
To my knowledge it is not usual to look for, or to find, a correspondence between the method of branching of the vegetative system and that of the flowering system of a species.
From a comparison of the shoots of Viburnum htntanoides we may draw the following conclusions: This species begins its career normally with a main axis ending with a terminal and two lateral buds.
A tendency soon becomes evident toward retarding the growth of the main axis while the chief growth energy is transferred to the lateral ramifications.
There is a further tendency to the complete suppression of one of the lateral buds which, however, may be present in rudimentary form.
In consequence we have the true axis ofteu replaced by a false axis and we may regard V. Ian tano ides as a bush with a decided tendency to the sympodial method of branching.
2 Revisions to the original type of branching, represented by figs.
1, 3 and 4, are not uncommon and assist in producing the irregular effect.
See figs.
11 and 12.
1898.]
485
