THE POLYCYSTID GREGARINES OF THE UNITED STATES.-Second Contribution.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
I.
The following paper contains the results of my observations on gregarines during the spring and summer of 1903.
Two new genera and several new species have been discovered.
In addition, some observations on the biology of the animals are described.
These concern the cysts and the time required for the maturation of the spores.
II.
ACUTISPORA n. g, Cysts spherical, with a thick cuticular membrane.
Dehiscence by means of an annular pseudocyst, which develops around one end of the ellipsoidal spore-mass, the two together having the form of an acorn.
Spore-mass ellipsoidal and enclosed in a tough transparent membrane, which splits into two values by a rupture extending around the major diameter.
^Maturation period intermediate.
Spores large, navicular in shape and showing epispore and endospore.
Ordinarily symmetrical, but sometimes with the longer axis very slightly curved.
Endospore a truncated double cone, but with a slightly curved profile, and furnished at either end with a thick, blunt refractive rod, the whole covered over by the epispore.
Within a large spherical residuum, either central or lateral, around which the sporozoites are grouped.
The genus contains one species: Acutispora macrocephala n. sp.
PI.
XXX, figs, 1-6 Epimerite: Some of these animals showed an anteriorly directed prolongation of the protomerite which may possibly be regarded as constituting the epimerite.
If so, this element is poorly developed and differs considerably in the different individuals.
In some cases the entocyte extended into it.
Protomerite: Always showing a deep constriction at the beginning of the posterior third.
Large, and relatively larger in the small than in the large animals.
Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp constriction.
Deutovierite: Conical, with usually a bluntly romided posterior end.
Broadest just behind the septum and tapering gradually and uniformly.
Epicyte: Thick, showing a double contour all over the animal.
Sarcocyte: Poorly developed or wanting, except for the septum, which dips slightly backward.
Entocyte: Dense in all cases.
In the smaller animals, slightly less dense in the protomerite than in the deutomerite.
Nucleus: Invisible.
Dimensions: Length of largest individuals seen, 600 microns.
Cysts: Spherical.
Diameter 410 microns, with a cuticular membrane 40 microns thick.
No gelatinous envelope.
Dimensions of spore-mass 400 by 300 microns.
Jlaturation period 10 days.
May 10-20, 1903.
Spores: Length, 19 microns; breadth, 4 microns; refractive rods, 6 microns long.
Host: Lithohius jorficatus Linn.
Found in but one case, and then present in small numbers.
Locality: Raleigh, N. C. GIGADTJCTUS n. g. Cysts spherical, with a thin gelatinous envelope.
Dehiscence by one enormous sporoduct.
Maturation period short.
Spores cylindrical, very large.
Wall single, thick.
Spores marked with diagonal lines, those on one side opposed in direction to those on the other, giving the spore a latticed appearance.
These lines are apparently clue to the sporozoites, which make up a hollow cylinder lying in contact with the inner surface of the spore wall.
The residuum, an ellipsoidal mass liberally provided with granules, occupies the cavity of this hollow cylinder.
The single species is: Gigaductus parvus n. sp.
PI.
XXX, figs.
10-13.
Epimerite: Not seen.
Protomerite: In the primites, generally forming somewhat more than a hemisphere.
In the satellites, slightly shortened, with a straight anterior edge.
Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp constriction.
Deutomerite: Cylindrical to conical, with a blvint posterior end.
Epicyte: Well developed, showing a double contour.
Longitudinally striated.
Sarcocyte: Apparently wanting, except for the septum, which is either plane or dips slightly backward.
Entocyte: Coarsely granular; not dense.
Nucleus: Large, spherical.
Dimensions: Maximum size 150 microns long by 90 microns broad.
The satellites are usually slightly smaller than the primites; but sometimes much smaller and sometimes larger.
The smallest animal seen was 50 microns long.
Cysts: Diameter 170 microns.
Gelatinous envelope 12 microns thick in the young cyst, but becoming very much thicker as maturation proceeds.
Cysts remarkably uniform in size.
Maturation period 2-3 days, August, 1903.
Spores: Cj''lindrical, 25 microns long by 10 microns broad.
At the ends, the spore wall is raised into a little circular ridge.
Host: Harpalus caliginosns Fab.
Infection only occasional, but the gregarines usually present in considerable numbers.
Locality: Wyncote, Pa.
There is a good deal of confusion regarding the gregarines occurring in the Diplopod family Julidse.
These gregarines all bear a certain amount of resemblance to one another, and it has been usual to relegate all of them to the species Stenophora juli Frantz.
Leger et Duboscq (1903) have recently shown that such a procedure is not warranted for the fauna of Corsica, and the case is certainly the same for that of the eastern United States.
The Julidiae of this region are infected with certainly two and possibly three species of Stenopliora, while the classic S. juli apparently does not occur.
Of these species, one is unquestionably the form described by Leidy (1853) as Gregarina julipusulli.
As indicated by the specific name, Leidy considered its host to be Julus pusillus Say.
According to BoUman (1887) this millipede, correctly Julus minutus Brandt, does not occur in Pennsylvania, and it may be that Leidy was mistaken in his identification.
This matter is not, however, of any great importance, and the specific name of the gregarine must stand.
Leidy spelled the specific name of the host pusullus, whereas Say's memoir (1821) renders it pusillus, which spelling will be used for the name of the gregarine.
The description is as follows : stenophora julipusilli (Leidy).
PI.
XXX, figs.
16, 17.
Gregarina julipusulli Leidy (1853), p. 238, PI.
10, figs.
21, 22.
Stenophora juli Crawley (1903), p. 51.
Protomerite: Hemispherical to cylindro-conical to conical.
In front a more or less evident papilla, through which there is an apparent pore.
Ordinarily broader than long.
Deutomente: Ordinarily cylindrical to flask-shaped.
Occasionally ellipsoidal to oval.
The cylindrical forms, in which the ratio of breadth to length is 1 to 4, display the tendency toward the assumption of the flask shape, in that the greatest breadth is in the posterior half.
Wlien the flask shape is assumed, the body of the flask may take up from one-third to three-fourths of the deutomerite.
In such cases, the ratio of breadth to length may be as high as 1 to 2.
The contour of the deutomerite is frequently slightly irregular.
Epicyte: Well developed.
About 3 microns thick in the deutomerite, slightly thinner in the protomerite, except at the anterior tip.
Here it is thickened and shows an apparent pore.
There is no evidence that the epicyte is actually pierced, however, and the apparent pore is probably the rudiment of an epimerite.
Longitudinal striations conspicuous.
Sarcocyte: Well developed all over the animal.
About one-half as thick as the epicyte.
Greatly thickened at the anterior tip of the protomerite.
Septum thick, curving backward.
Myocyte: Easily demonstrated by the use of reagents, and visiljle in living animals under favorable circumstances.
Entocyte: Uniformly granular.
Very dense in the larger animals.
Granules of the protomerite differing in character from those of the deutomerite.
Nucleus: Spherical, wdth one large spherical karyosome.
Hosts: Julus and the smaller species of Parajulus.
Wliat is apparently the same gregarine is occasionally present in Lysiopetalum lactarium Say.
Very common.
Locality: Eastern United States.
This species is easily separated from S. juli by the size of the protomerite.
In S. juli the length of the protomerite, according to the figures given by Schneider (1875), makes up only about 6 per cent, of the total length.
In S. julipusilli this proportion' increases to 10 per cent, in the adults and 15 per cent, in the young.
From Stenophora varians, recently described by Leger et Duboscq (1903), S. julipusilli differs in being a larger and bulkier animal and in having the breadth of the protomerite almost invariably greater than the length.
The Diplopod Parafulus, while frequently parasitized by Stenophora julipusilli, shows at times other gregarines which cannot be placed in that species.
These present themselves under several forms, the differences between which, if permanent, are certainly of specific value.
My observations, however, have not as yet been thorough enough to determine how many distinct species there are, and the matter will be reserved for a future communication.
For the following new species, the data at present on hand are not sufficient to warrant formal definitions.
Actinocephalus americanus n. sp.
PI.
XXX, fig.
22.
This species is created for a single individual found in Galerita hicolor Drury.
The beetle is quite common and I have opened perhaps twenty individuals, but only one was parasitized, and then but the one gregarine was present.
It is probable that the parasite is only sporadically present in Galerita, and that its usual host is some other animal.
It is, however, distinct from any of the common species occurring at Wyncote.
It is i^laced in the genus Adinocephalus on account of the form of both protomerite and deutomerite, the presence of several karyosomes in the nucleus, and the fact that its host was a carnivorous Arthropod.
The gregarine was 200 microns long, 35 of wdiich represented the length of the protomerite.
The two segments were each about 45 microns broad.
The epicyte was verj^ distinct and showed a little papilla at the anterior tip of the protomerite.
The septum curved forward and the nucleus showed several karyosomes.
The entocyte was much denser in the deuteromite than in the protomerite.
The animal progressed cjuite freely in a circle of short radius, but was prevented from taking any lengthy excursions Ijy the surrounding host tissue.
Hoplorhynchus scolopendras n. sp.
PI.
XXX, fig.
19.
This species is created for a gregarine parasitic in Scolopendra woodi Meinert, from Raleigh, N. C. Two specimens were present.
One of these, when first seen, was a balloon-shaped sac, 350 microns long by 200 broad.
The epicyte and sarcocyte were each nearly or ciuite 3 microns thick, and the former was plainly marked with longitudinal striations.
Both of the individuals were very flexible, readily changing shape and showing extensive contortions.
After having been upon the slide for perhaps an hour, the parasites became quiescent and assumed w^hat was probably something like the typical shape.
The larger then measured 825 microns long by 120 microns broad.
The anterior end, as shown in fig.
19, was much narrower than the balance of the animal, iDut it is somewhat questionable if this narrowing be permanent.
A distinct septum extended across this narrower region, cutting off a portion of granular entocyte.
Backward from the broadest portion, the animal's body tapered gradually, ending l)ehind in a point.
This species is placed in the genus Hoplorhynchus on account of its close resemblance to H. actinotus Leidy and its occurrence in a centipede related to Scolopocryptops, the host of the latter.
Trichorhynchus lithobii n. sp.
PL XXX, fig.
18.
This animal, which is apparently specificalh^ distinct from any of the other gregarines parasitic in Lithobius, was found in a specimen of that centipede from Raleigh, N. C. An epimerite was not seen.
The protomerite was subcordiform, and displayed in front a differentiation the exact nature of which could not be determined.
The deutomerite varied considerably in shape, the animal being quite polymorphic.
Both epicyte and sarcocyte were distinct and of about equal thickness.
The septum was thick and curved backward.
The entocyte was not dense; the nucleus large, with several karyosomes.
The largest individual seen was 195 microns long.
Figs.
20 and 21 show a small gregarine frequently encoimtered in Scolopocryptops scxspinosus Say.
Fig.
21 is doubtless that of a very young specimen which has been loosened from its original attachment by the breaking up of the host intestine upon the slide.
The three segments are all marked out.
It seems almost certain that this figure represents a young Hoplorhynchus actinotus Leidy.
The animal shown in fig.
20 was very like the other in general appearance and had the paleness characteristic of a young animal.
There was, however, no epimerite, nor did the individuals seen show any indications of recent mutilations.
H. actinotus may retain the epimerite mitil it reaches a length of 700 microns, whereas the animal here figured was only 45 microns long.
The observed facts are capable of two interpretations.
The one is that H. actiiiotus is to a certain extent dimorphic ; that is, the epimerite may be lost very early or it may be retained until the animal has reached nearly or quite the maximum size.
The other is that while fig.
21 represents a young individual of H. actinotus, fig.
20 is that of a different species.
The matter is, however, one best held under advisement until additional facts are obtained.
There follow certain addenda, mostly with regard to the cysts and spores, to the characters of species previously described.
Actinocephalus harpali (Crawley).
PI.
XXX, fig.
14.
Gregarina harpali Crawley (1903), p. 49, PI.
1, figs.
1—1.
To the characters given in my original description of this species add: Cysts: When first obtained, 640 microns in diameter, with a cuticular membrane 95 microns thick.
The true cyst mass was therefore 450 microns in diameter, and this size was maintained.
On the other hand, the cuticular membrane swelled enormously and became ovoid, finally reaching a length of 1150 microns and a breadth of 1000.
The cyst opened by simple rupture where this membrane was thinnest.
Sporulation was apparently total.
Maturation period 9 days, August 14-23, 1903.
Spores: Length 9 microns; breadth 7^ microns.
Diamond-shaped in longitudinal and hexagonal in transverse section.
Spore wall single, thick, with the cavity entirely filled with hyaline protoplasm containing one or tAvo large to many small granules.
The spores were mostly adherent in files or masses, this arrangement being apparently due to a thin pellicle of some gelatinous substance covering the spore wall.
This gregarine reaches a maximum length of 1200 microns.
It is very common, being present in considerable numbers in nearly every beetle opened.
On the other hand, at least from June to August, the cysts are rare, the above data being obtained from a single specimen.
Gregarina calverti Crawley.
PI.
XXX, fig.
15.
Gregarina calverti Crawley (1903), p. 48, PI.
2, figs.
19-21, To the original description given of this species add: Cysts: Spherical, with a cuticular membrane showing concentric strise.
No gelatinous envelope.
The young cysts show a second hyaline membrane, 3-4 microns thick, within the striated membrane.
Cysts varying in diameter from 250 to 360 microns, the membrane varying in thickness from 20-40 microns.
The larger cysts do not necessarily possess the thicker membranes.
The cysts are probably in all cases the result of a fusion of two gregarines.
Dehiscence effected by sporoducts, from 4-8 in number, not exceeding in length the diameter of the cyst.
Sporoducts not always all used in the projection of the spores.
Maturation period 4 days, August 18-22, 1903.
Spores: Doliform, 13 microns long by 5 microns broad.
A single thick spore wall, which is enclosed within a gelatinous pellicle, serving to hold the spores together in files.
Spore contents at first wholly hyaline, but rapidly differentiating into a central spherical residuum and two groups of sporozoites.
Cnemidospora spiroboli (Crawley).
PI.
XXX, figs.
7-9.
Stcnoplwra spiroboli Crawley (1903), p. 51, PI.
2, fig.
22.
To the descriptions originally given of this species add : Cysts: Spherical, 350-500 microns in diameter, with a cuticular membrane generally about 20 microns thick, but often much thicker.
This variation in the thickness of the membrane appears to be due to the quantity of extraneous matter which gets tangled within it as it forms.
It was noticeable that the thin walls were clear and clean, while the thick walls were very much matted with substance from the host's intestine.
Dehiscence by a slit which, in the cases observed, extended only part way around the cyst.
Sporulation partial.
Maturation period 8 days.
May 17-25, 1903.
Spores: Length 12^ microns; breadth 7^ microns.
Two coated, the epispore of some consistent gelatinous substance; the endospore cuticular.
The latter presents an elliptical profile, with slightly protruding ends, whereas the epispore is pulled out considerably at the ends, and somewhat irregular in outline.
Sporoplasm hyaline, with a central mass of granules.
The spores adhere in files and masses.
Gregarina achetaeabbreviatae Leidy.
Gregarina achekeahhreviatce Leidy (1S53), p. 238, PI.
11, figs.
33, 34.
Gregarina a'chetoEabbreviaice Crawley (1903), p. 45, PL 3, figs.
34, 35.
To the previous notices of this species add : Cysts: Spherical, enclosed in a more or less irregularly shaped thick gelatinous envelope.
Diameter of the cyst mass, without the gelatinous envelope, 225 microns.
Cuticular membrane 6-8 microns thick.
The gelatinous envelope varied in thickness from 100-300 microns.
Dehiscence by sporoducts, 2-5 in number, reaching a length of 1000 microns.
Prior to evagination, the situation of the sporoducts is plainly indicated by the appearance around the periphery of the cyst of dense discoid masses, yellowish in color.
This yellowish color is due to the presence of an oil, which, when the sporoducts evert, appears to be within the substance of their walls, and not within their lumina.
The two cysts obtained everted their sporoducts one day after removal from the host intestine.
Spores: Unknown, for, rather curiously, although the sporoducts everted, no spores appeared.
The list of the polycystid gregarines of the United States, revised to date, is as follows: Fam.
GREGARINID^.
1.
Gregarina blattarum Sieb.
2.
Gregarina ACHET^ABBREViATiB Leidy.
3.
Gregarina passalicornuti Leidy.
4.
Gregarina calverti Crawley.
5.
GiGADucTus parvus Crawley.
6.
HiRMocYSTis ovALis Crawley.
7.
EuspoRA i-ucANi Crawley.
8.
Cnemidospora spjroboli Crawley.
Fam.
STENOPHORID^.i 9.
Stenophora julipusilli Leidy.
Fain.
DAOTYLOPHORID^.
10.
Echinomera hispida Aime Schn.
11.
Echinomera microcephala Leidy.
12.
Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime Sehn.
13.
Trichorhynchus lithobii Crawley.
14.
AcuTispoRA macrocephala Crawley.
Fam.
AOTINOCEPHALID^.
15.
Amphoroides fontari.e Crawley.
16.
AsTEROPHORA PHiLiCA T.eidy.
17.
AsTEROPHORA CRATOPARis Crawley.
18.
Stephanophora locust^carolin.e Leidy.
10.
BoTHRioPSis HisTRio Aime Schn.
20.
AcTiNOCEPHALUS DUJARDiNi Aime Schn.
21.
AcTiNOCEPHALus HARPALi Crawley.
22.
AcTiNOCEPHALus AMERiCANUs Crawley.
Fam.
MENOSPOBID^.
23.
HoPLORHYNCHUs ACTiNOTUs Leidy.
24.
HoPLORHYNCHUs scoLOPENDRAS Crawley.
Fam.
DOLIOOYSTID^.
25.
DoLiocYSTis RHYxcoBOLi Crawley.
In addition to the above, there are eight more specie.s.
These are all placed in the genus Gregarina, but since in no case are either the cysts or spores known, the correctness of this disposition is decidedly in doubt.
It is therefore impossible to say to which family they belong.
They are as follows : 26.
Gregarina termitis Leidy.
27.
Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leidy.
28.
Gregarina melolonth.^brunne^e Leidy.
29.
Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis Leidy.
30.
Gregarina elater^ Crawley.
^ Established by Leger et Duboscq (1903).
31.
Gregarina diceli^ Crawley.
32.
Gregarina xylopini Crawley.
33.
Gregarina boletophagi Crawley.
III.
The time required for a gregarine cyst to mature appears to vary to a very remarkable degree.
I have information on seven species, as follows : No.
of days.
Month.
Gregarina achet^abbreviat.^i; 1 August.
GiGADucTus parvus 2-3 August.
Gregarina calverti 4 August.
Cnemidospora spiroboli 8 May.
ACTIXOCEPHALUS HARPALI 9 AugUSt.
ACUTISPORA MACROCEPHALA 10 May.
AcTiNocEPHALus DUJARDiNi 30 April-May.
Although the number of cases is quite small, they point to one or two facts of general interest.
The first three species mentioned, in which the period varies from one to four days, are all animals of which the cysts open by means of sporoducts.
This suggests the conclusion that when sporoducts are developed the maturation period is shortened, although wherein the signification of this apparent correlation may lie is decidedly problematical.
The most striking case is that of Gregarina achetceabhreviahe.
These cysts had not passed to the exterior in the usual way, but were obtained from the intestinal contents of a slaughtered cricket.
They then showed the yellowish disks indicative of the approaching eversion of the sporoducts (see p. 639), and in consideration of the short time which elapses from the appearance of these disks to eversion, it is not unlikely that the process may take place in the host intestine.
There is no inherent unlikelihood in such an event, although it would probably not lead to auto-infection.
The spores, released in the fecal masses of the posterior portion of the cricket gut, would merely pass to the exterior free instead of enclosed within a cyst, there to await their destiny.
In the case of Gigaductus parvus the cysts were also removed from the host intestine, which gives this species a very short period.
The cysts of Gregarina calverti were obtained from the feces of the host, and hence the four days represents the time required after the cyst has ^ Incorrectly given as discccli in the original description.
41 reached the outside world.
In the case of this species, I obtained quite a number of cysts, all of which went through the process in approximately the same time.
It is also worthy of note that the spores of these two species mature rapidly.
Those of Gigaductus parvus showed differentiation into sporozoites as soon as they were ejected from the cysts.
Gregarina calverti was a trifle slower, but the sporozoites were to be detected within half a day after dehiscence.
Cnemidospora spiroboli, Adinocephalus harpali and Acutispora macrocephala showed periods of from 8 to 10 days.
Of these three species, the cysts of the first two dehisce by simple rupture, that of the third by the formation of a pseudocyst.
A .
dujardini, which was thirty days maturing, also dehisces by simple rupture.
Although the facts are few, they point to the conclusion that when dehiscence is by rupture, maturation is a slower process than when sporoducts are formed.
Further, the spores of these last-named species did not, for several days, show any differentiation into sporozoites.
Of course, temperature is a factor in determining the time, but the cysts of A. harpali were exposed to exactly the same conditions as those of the two species of Gregarina and of Gigaductus par-vus.
IV.
The cysts of Acidispora macrocephala present some points of interest.
They were obtained on May 10, from a specimen of Lithobius forficatus, sent me from Raleigh, N. C. At this time they were perfectly spherical, 420 microns in diameter, with a cuticular wall 40 microns thick.
There were several cysts in the intestine of the myriapod, all about the same size, and of these two matured.
On May 18, the appearance presented is shown in PI.
XXX, fig.
4.
The protective membrane was still clear and the cyst proper still very dense.
One hemisphere was now considerably larger than the other, and on the surface of this larger hemisphere there were a few indistinct furrows.
These fuiTows do not appear to possess any especial signification, although they may be taken as a sign that the cyst is nearly mature.
Two days later.
May 20, the cyst presented quite a different aspect.
The protective membrane had swollen greatly and was evidently undergoing a rapid decay (fig.
5)At one pole, the upper in the figure, it was much thinner than elsewhere, and it was from this pole that the spores eventually emerged.
Within lay the cyst mass, now having the form of an acorn, and consisting of an ellipsoidal body, around one end of which was a thick ring.
At the free end of this ellipsoidal body, which is the spore mass, a definitive membrane could be seen.
This membrane, although presenting a curved contour, did not fit closely the internal mass of spores, whence the presence of a liquid may be assumed.
The ring-shaped pseudocyst presented the same general appearance as the spore mass, and it also appeared to be inclosed by a membrane.
The pseudocyst was so dense that the ellipsoidal body could not be seen through it, but a deep furrow could be detected extending around the line of juncture, giving the entire element the optical section seen in fig.
6.
The diameter of the sphere formed by the protective membrane was considerably greater, and now measured 750 microns, as against 420 microns when removed from the centipede.
The next day the cyst had dehisced.
It now showed a membranous bag, lying within the disintegrated remains of the pseudocyst.
This bag showed two valves, and may be compared with the split shell of a walnut.
It was evidently of to\igh consistence, since movements of the cover-glass, while rumpling it considerably, failed to tear it.
It was entirely empty, which fact would seem to indicate that the spores are projected from the cyst with some force when dehiscence takes place.
The mechanics of the process are probably somewhat as follows: The formation of the bulky pseudocyst at one pole causes a gradual weakening of the protective membrane at this pole.
In the condition illustrated in fig.
5 the protective coating appears to be reduced to a thin shell enclosing an empty space.
This space, however, is doubtless occupied by the substance of the membrane, rendered transparent by the presence of a liberal quantity of water.
Eventually the membrane, weakened by the absorption of water, and pressed upon from within by the pseudocyst, yields at the thinnest place and the contained mass is released.
Whether the ellipsoidal ])ody splits on account of the opening of the protective membrane, or by means of the liquid which it evidently contains, I do not know.
The latter seems to be the more probable reason.
The annular mass has been termed, and I think correctly, a pseudocyst, yet it by no means possesses the .permanent nature which this element sometimes displays.
It seems probable that we should find various conditions from a mere residual mass to a definitive pseudocyst, since the latter condition is evidently derived from the former.
In the case of Acutispora, the condition may probably be regarded as intermediate.
The pseudocyst has become more than a mere residuum, but has not acquired the definitiveness it reaches in a genus like Stylorhynchus.
Cnemidospora spiroholi presents the less evolved condition.
In this case there remained, after dehiscence, a spherical shell, across the surface of which a long rent extended.
Within was a considerable c{uantity of granules, which, upon pressure, escaped from the cyst in two or three large masses.
Here we have the primitive condition, a mere residuum, which no doubt takes part in dehiscence by swelling.
Bibliography.
BoLLMAN, Chas.
H., 1887.
Notes on North American Julidse.
Ann.
New York Acad.
Sci., IV, 1887, pp.
2.5-44.
Crawley, Howard, 1903.
List of the Polvcystid Gregarines of the United States.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., January, 1903, pp.
41-58, Pis.
1-3.
Leger et DuBOSCQ, 1903.
Recherches sur les Myriapodes de Corse et leurs Parasites.
Arch.
Zool.
exper.
et gen., 1903.
[4], Vol.
I, pp.
307-3.58.
Leidy, Joseph, 1853.
On the Organization of the Genus Gregarina of Dufour.
Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Society, Vol.
10, N. S., pp.
233-241, Pis.
11, 12.
Say, Thoma.s, 1821.
Description of die Myriapodffi of the United States.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Phila., II, pp.
102-114.
Schneider, Aime, 1875.
Contributions a I'histoire des Gregarines des Invert^br^s de Paris et de Roscoff.
Arch.
Zool.
exper.
et gen., 4, pp.
493-604, Pis.
16-22.
Explanation of Plate XXX.
Fig.
1.
— Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632).
Sporont.
Fig.
2.
— Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632).
Supposed epimerite.
Fig.
3.
— Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632).
Spore.
Figs.
4—6.
— Acutispora macrocephala (p. 632).
Cysts.
Fig.
7.
— Cnemidospora spiroboli (p. 638).
Cyst about to dehisce.
Fig.
8.
— Cnemidospora spiroboli (p. 638).
Empty cyst.
Fig.
9.
— Cnemidospora spiroboli (p. 638).
Spore.
Fig.
10.
— Gigaductus parvus (p. 633).
Association of two sporonts.
Fig.
11.
— Gigaductus parvus (p. 633).
Cyst with everted sporoduct.
Figs.
12, 13.
— Gigaductus parvus (p. 633).
Spores.
Fig.
14.
— Actinocephalus harpali (p. 637).
Spore.
Fig.
15.
— Gregarina calverti (p. 638).
Spore.
Fig.
16.
— Stenophora julipusilli (p. 634).
Outline figure of young animal.
Fig.
17.
— Stenophora jidipusilli (p. 634).
Adult.
Fig.
18.
— Trichorhynchus lithobii (p. 637).
Sporont.
Fig.
19.
— Hoplorhynchus scolopendras (p. 636).
Anterior end of relaxed animal.
Fig.
20.
— Small gregarine found in Scolopocryptops (p. 637).
Fig.
21.
— Small gregarine found in Scolopocryptops.
Supposed to be the young of //.
actinotus (p. 637).
Fig.
22.
— Actinocephalus americanus (p. 636).
Sporont.
SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES ON SPIDERS OF THE GENERA LYCOSA, PARDOSA, PIRATA AND DOLOMEDES FROM THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES.'
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR.
The present is practically a supplement to a former paper by me, entitled "Descriptions of Lycosidse and Oxyopidse of Philadelphia and Its Vicinity," published in these Proceedings in 1902.
I have made further collections of specimens from Philadelphia and West Chester, Pennsylvania, the localities I had studied before, and also collections from Crosswicks, Burlington county.
New Jersey, and Wood's Hole, Massachusetts.
One new species is described, and descriptions of and notes upon various others are given.
For the comparison of the different species of Lycosidse the characters of color and dimensions are of little worth, even the ocular arrangements are subject to variation in some forms, so that the best characters are afforded by the structure of the copulatory apparatus in both sexes, by the form and proportion of the cephalothorax, the relative length of the chelicera, and the relative length of the legs to the length of the cephalothorax.
The genera are defined as in my preceding paper; it is my purpose later to revise the genera of this family, for the present characterization of them appears to be artificial, and there nmst ultimately be a classification upon a different set of characters.
It is noteworthy that the specimens from Wood's Hole average considerably smaller than those of the same species from the other localities, so that there the maritime environment woukl appear to retard or check growth.
1.
Lycosa ocreata pulchra Montg.
Some specimens were secured at Wood's Hole.
2.
Lycosa sepulchralis Montg.
The original description of this species was based upon a single 9 from Philadelphia; since then another 9 has been secured at West Chester, and also a c?
from Philadelphia.
The d^ differs from the 9 in form in that the cephalothorax is relatively much broader across the ^ Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Texas, No.
53. middle, so that in front it is barely one-half its greatest transverse diameter.
The dimensions of this o^ are: Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm.
Length of abdomen, 3.5 " Length of first leg, 13.3 " Length of second leg, n.5 " Length of third leg, .'
10.8 " Length of fourth leg, 16 " In color the pattern of the cephalothorax and the color of the sternum and inferior surface of the coxte is as in the 9 ; the abdomen has a more distinct dorsal pattern, and the deep black of the venter (containing minute yellow spots) extends further up the sides than in the ?
.
But the main color differences in the d" are in the legs : the coxae of all the pairs are black; all the other joints of the three posterior pairs are clear yellow with an indistinct darker annulus on each patella; in the first pair the femora are clear yellow, the patellte the same color with a dark ring, the tibiee and proximal portions of the tarsi deep Ijlack.
the remaining portion of the tarsi and the metatarsi (except a black ring at their distal ends) pale yellow.
The palpi have the femora and proximal halves of the tarsus black, the other parts yellow.
This (j' differs from the o' of Lycosa (Tarentula) ynodesta (Keys.)
in its smaller size, differences in the ocular arrangement, and in the coloration of the legs and sternum.
3.
Lycosa charonoides Montg.
A male of this species, hitherto known only by the ?
, was secured from the same locality (Philadelphia), and its description follows: There are differences from the ?
in the ocular arrangement; the eyes of the second row are less than their diameter apart, and the dorsal eye area not more than one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax.
The dimensions (taken in life) are : Length of cephalothorax, 4.3 mm.
Length of abdomen, 4.2 " Length of first leg, 12 " Length of second leg 11 " Length of third leg, 10.5 " Length of fourth leg 15 " Colors in Life.
— Cephalothorax marked with black and ' brown, as follows: a median brown band, as broad anteriorly as the eye area and extending back almost to the edge of the thorax ; sides with radiating brown markings, and a marginal and submarginal brown band, both interrupted ; all the brown color is due to the presence of hairs, and the black (most conspicuous as a band on each side of the median one) to their absence.
The sternum is ghstening black, with few hairs.
The abdomen above blackish with an obscure narrow median brown band, and on each side a row of 6-7 small whitish circular spots, the largest of them most anterior, and the posterior ones transversely connected by lines of brown; the sides are gray, streaked above with blackish; the venter brownish-gray, with rows of small black dots converging from the lung-books to the spinnerets, the region of the genital aperture black, the lung-books yellow, the spinnerets blackish.
Chelicera and lahrum black (the latter yellow at its distal end), maxillce reddish-brown.
Legs reddish-brown; femora of the first pair and femora and tibise of the other pairs quite distinctly ringed with black and buff.
Palpi colored like the first pair of legs, but the tarsal joint black.
The 6" is thus very similar to the 9 , but differs in the ocular arrangement and in the coloration of the legs.
A good distinction from the allied L. sepulchralis Montg., in addition to the differences of the genital organs, is the following: in charonoides the dorsal contour of the thorax is straight, and the labium less than half as long as the maxillge; in sepulchralis the dorsal outline of the thorax is arched (the eye area being somewhat depressed), and the kbium fully half as long as the maxillse.
4.
Lycosa stonei Montg.
This species is very abundant at Crosswicks, New Jersey.
5.
Lycosa verisimilis Montg.
Specimens were secured at Crosswicks, New Jersey.
6.
Lycosa arenicola Scudd.
Specimens were secured at Wood's Hole.
7.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz.
Specimens from Wood's Hole.
8.
Lycosa cinerea (Fabr.).
An adult 9 from Wood's Hole has a cephalothoracal length of only 5 mm.
Numerous specimens from Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, New York, kindly sent by Miss Annie B. Sargent, are all very lightly colored, with the abdominal markings very indistinct.
9.
Lycosa nidicola Emert, Additional specimens were collected at Crosswicks and Wood's Hole.
This is a very variable species in size and color.
The dimensions of mature 9 9 in my collection are as follows : Three specimens from Wood's Hole, cephalothorax 6.5-7.5 mm.
Nine specimens from Crosswicks, cephalothorax 7.8-10.5 mm.
Twelve specimens from West Chester, cephalothorax 8-9 mm.
One specimen from Philadelphia, cephalothorax 8.2 mm.
A large female in the McCook collection (described in my precedingpaper) had a cephalothoracal length of 9.2 mm.
The color of the vmder surface of the abdomen in the females varies from a pale yellowish-brown with a few small scattered black spots to darker with spots much more numerous, and sometimes arranged into three bands converging toward the spinnerets, to blackish.
All these variations are found in the same locality.
The sternum varies from brown to black, sometimes with a distinct light median band or anterior half (all specimens from Wood's Hole and one from West Chester), or without such a band.
In the largest female from Crosswicks the annulations on the legs and the converging dark bands on the venter are as distinct as in L. inhonesta (Keys.).
The males also differ considerably in size, as shown by two recently acciuircd mature specimens from Philadelphia: Length of cephahjthorax, 4.3 mm.6.6 mm.
Length of abdomen, 4 "-5 " Length of first leg 16 '' -24 Length of second leg, 16.2 " -22 " Length of third les, 15.5 " -20 Length of fourth leg, 21 " -27 The color in life of these two males is as follows: Cephalothorax blackish, a narrow buff-brown median line extending from the forehead to the end of the thorax, barely as wide as the space between the eyes of the second row, in one specimen to each side of the anterior end of this stripe a narrower parallel stripe; an interrupted broader, marginal band of the same color, and composed of long hairs.
Sternum pale greenish, covered with long hairs.
Abdomen above anteriorly with a blackish median mark largest just l:)ef()re its termination at the middle of the dorsum, l^ordered by Ijuff-brown broad stripes, and each of the latter by a blackish stripe which extends to the spinnerets; posterior portion of the dorsum blackish, with indistinct buff-brown spots, in one specimen with a pair of white s])ots; sides pale yellowish; venter pale yellowish, in one specimen with black spots.
Legs pale yellowish-brown, metatarsus of the first pair blackish, distal end of the tarsi of the other pairs blackish.
Palpi colored like legs, but the tarsi blackish on the inferior aspect.
Chelicera yellowish-brown, covered anteriorly with whitish hairs.
Labium and maxillce pale yellowish-brown .
This species differs from L. inhonesta (Keys.)
in the greater relative length of the dorsal eye area, and in the smaller relative length of the chelicera.
10.
Lycosa lepida (Keys.).
Numerous additional specimens from Wood's Hole and Crosswicks.
Those from Wood's Hole are much smaller than from the other localities; in the males the cephalothorax varies from .3.2-4 mm., and in the females from 3.5-5 mm.
11.
Lycosa frondicola Emert.
A specimen from Wood's Hole.
12.
Lycosa purcelli Montg.
Specimens from Crosswicks.
13.
Lycosa contestata, n. sp.
One mature V (type), bearing a cocoon, from Wood's Hole, and three immature specimens of probably this species from the same locality.
Eyes.
— First row almost as broad as the second (the middle points of its lateral eyes more lateral than the middle points of the eyes of the second row), its middle eyes larger and slightly higher.
Eyes of the second row largest, more than their diameter apart.
Eyes of the third row much nearer to the second row than to each other.
Dorsal eye area more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax.
Form.
— Cephalothorax highest just back of the posterior eyes, in front slightly broader than one-half its greatest transverse diameter.
Head sloping and rounded on the sides.
The length of the chelicera is about twice the height of the head in front.
Sternum longer than broad.
Labium almost one-half the length of the maxillae.
Legs stout.
Epigynum very small.
As seen from above the anterior edge of the cephalothorax a})pears quite straight.
Dimensions.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm.
Length of alDdomen, 5 " Length of first leg, 15 "' Length of second leg, 14.2 " Length of third leg 13" Length of fourth leg, 19 '' Color in alcohol.
— CepJudothorax above with a black stripe joining and surrounding the eyes of the second and third rows of each side, the sides of the head and forehead buff ; a b\iff median band as broad as the eye area extends from the eyes to about the middle of the thorax, where it is laterally indented, and from the region of the dorsal groove l^ackward becomes gradually narrower; on each side is a narrower, submarginal buff -brown; the rest of the thorax is darker brown, with radiating lines from the dorsal groove.
Sternum buff, a little darker than the coxse.
Abdomen above much darker than the cephalothorax, mainly chocolate-brown with black markings; at each antero-lateral margin a black patch, a pair of white dots connected by a transverse black line on the anterior dorsum, several pairs of black spots (the most posterior of them connected by transverse black lines) on the posterior dorsum as well as 2 or 3 pairs of white spots, and irregular black streaks on the sides; the venter is yellowish in the epigynal region, behind this light brown with a narrow dark brown from the epigynum almost to the spinnerets and with numerous small black spots.
Chelicera reddish-brown with long black hairs; labium and maxillce like the sternum.
Legs pale buff, lighter beneath, vni\\ darker annulations on the superior surfaces of all the joints.
Spinnerets choc olate-br o wn .
Comparisons.
— This form approaches most closely L. pratensis Emerton, but differs notably in the structure of the epigynum, and also in the coloration of the abdomen.
14.
Lycosa (Trochosa) avara (Keys.).
One mature ?
from Philadelphia.
Eyes.
— First row almost straight, narrower than the second row (the middle points of its lateral eyes are more lateral than the middle points of the eyes of the second row), nearer to the second row than to the margin of the forehead, its middle eyes slightly larger and a little higher than its lateral eyes.
Eyes of the second row largest, not quite their diameters apart.
Third row widest, its eyes nearer to the second row than to each other.
Dorsal eye area about one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax.
Form.
— Cephalothorax highest at the dorsal groove, in front fully one-half its greatest transverse diameter ; head rather low and its sides moderately sloping.
Sternum longer than broad.
Labium less than one-half the length of the maxillae.
Chelicera strong, their length fully double the height of the head in front.
Legs stout.
Diinensions.
Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm.
Length of abdomen, 6 "■ Length of first leg, 12 '' Length of second leg, 10.5 " 651 Dimensions.
Length of third leg 10.5 nun.
Length of fourth leg 1^-^ Color in alcohol— Cephalothorax above with a clear reddish-yellow median band extending from the second eye row to the posterior edge of the thorax; this band is broadest close behind the posterior eyes, there fully as broad as the eye area and enclosing on each side an elongate darker mark and a dark line between the posterior eyes, it is notched at the middle of the thorax and becomes narrower behind this point ; a narrow line of the same color borders the eye area laterally and anteriorly ; to each side of the median band the thorax is darker brown with a rather indistinct submarginal, yellowish band, and with ■ blackish stripes radiating from the dorsal groove.
Sternum pale yellowish-brown, like the inferior surfaces of the coxa.
Abdomen above dull brownish obscurely mottled with yellowish, the brown forming an indistinct median and a pair of lateral bands on the anterior half; sides and venter clear yellowish-brown, with small brown spots most numerous near the spinnerets; the latter deep reddish-brown.
Chelicera deep rvifous-red, maxilla a little paler, labium nearly black with a lighter tip.
Legs reddish-yellow, about the color of the median cephalothoracal band, ringed with darker brown on the femora and patellffi, more distinctly above than below, and with more obscure annulation on the tibia?.
Palj)i colored like the legs.
Coni'parisons.—Th.is specimen agrees very closely with Keyserling's description.
It has certain resemblances to L. niqraurata Montg.
(of which only thed^ is known), but is smaller and with a different coloration, particularly of the thorax and the venter.
It also resembles L. rufiventris Banks, especially in the form of the epigynum, but rufiventris is slightly larger and has the "abdomen above and below redbrown like the sternum."
15.
Lycosa pratensis Emert.
Two females from Wood's Hole.
Eyes.
— First row as wide as the second, its middle eyes larger than its lateral.
Eyes of second row largest, their diameter apart.
Eyes of the third row nearer to the second row than to each other.
Dorsal eye area about one-sixth the length of the ccphalothorax.
Fonn.— Cephalothorax highest just in front of the dorsal groove, in front more than one-half its greatest transverse diameter.
Length of the chelicera about one and a half times the height of the head in front.
Sternum longer than broad.
Legs stout.
Dimensions.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.4 mm.
Length of abdomen, 4 '' Length of first leg, 10 " Length of second leg, 9 " Length of third leg, 8.8 " Length of fourth leg 12 " Color in alcohol.
— Ccjthalothorax above reddish-brown, a broad, median yellow band surrounds the eye area and extends backward (enclosing a pair of brown lines) to just in front of the median groove where it is constricted, and.
narrows from this point back to the margin of the cephalothorax; on each side an interrupted, submarginal yellow band.
Sternum reddish-brown, a little darker than the coxse.
Abdomen above dark olive-brown, on its anterior half a light median band edged by black lines and ending in a point at the middle of the dorsum, and on each side along the whole length of the abdomen a row of yellowish dots; venter reddish-brown, sides and region just in front of spinnerets dark olive-brown.
Chelicera dark chestnut-brown, labium the same, maxillce like the sternum.
Legs yellowish, indistinctly ringed on femora, patellae and tibise with brown, tarsi and metatarsi darker.
16.
Pardosa nigropalpis Emert.
Additional specimens from Crosswicks and Wood's Hole.
17.
Pardosa scita Montg.
Specimens from West Chester.
18.
Pardosa lapidicina Emert.
Specimens from Wood's Hole.
Eyes.
— First row shorter than the second, almost straight, its eyes subequal.
Eyes of second row largest, about twice their diameter apart.
Third row widest, its eyes nearer to the second row than to each other.
Dorsal eye area one-quarter the length of the cephalothorax ; in the c?
this area has a shorter proportioijate length.
Form.— Cephalothorax relatively broad and flat, highest in the eye region, in front about one-half its greatest transverse diameter.
Length of the chelicera about one and a half times the height of the head in front.
Sternum longer than broad.
Legs long and slender.
Posterior spinnerets decidedly longer than the anterior.
Dimensions.
Length of cephalothorax, ,3.4 mm.
3.5 mm.
Length of abdomen, 3.5 " 6 " Dimensions*.
cJ' ?
Length of first leg, 12 mm.
12.5 mm.
Length of second leg, 12 " 12 " Length of third leg, 12 " 12.5 " Length of fom^th leg, 15.5 " 17.5 " Color in alcohol, ?
9 .
— Cephalothorax above blackish, l)lack in eye region; an indistinct, irregularly bounded, broad median lighter area, and irregular markings of the same color composing an indistinct submarginal band.
Sternum black.
Abdomen above deep olive-gray, on the anterior half with a more or less distinct narrow median band of yellowish bordered on each side by a black line, and on the posterior half either a row of transverse yellowish bands each enclosing a pair of black spots, or else on each side a row of yellowish spots ; sides finely mottled with olive-gray and yellowish; venter yellowish-brown, bordered laterally and just anterior to spinnerets by dark olive-gray.
Chelicera clear reddish-brown, maxilke olive-brown, lahium black proximally and yellow distally.
Legs annulated above with blackish and yellowish on all the joints except the metatarsi, and with a longitudinal yellowish stripe on the posterior aspect of each femur; on their lower surfaces the coxae and femora are greenish or olive-gray, each coxa with a proximal light spot, the other joints more yellowish.
Color in alcohol, u ■ — Like the 9 , but with the superior surfaces of the thorax and abdomen nearly black and their color patterns barely distinguishable.
19.
Pardosa pallida Emert.
One ?
from Wood's Hole.
Eyes.
— First row much shorter than the second, straight, its eyes equal in size.
Eyes of the second row largest, fully one and a half times their diameter apart.
Eyes of the third row nearly as far from the second row as from each other.
Form.
— Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter.
Length of the chelicera less than the height of the head in front.
Sternum longer than broad.
Labium less than one-half the length of the maxillae.
Legs long and slender.
Posterior spinnerets double the length of the anterior.
Dimensions.
Length of cephalothorax 2.8 mm.
Length of abdomen 2.5 " Length of first leg 8.2 " Length of second leg, 7.8 " Length of third leg 8 " Length of fourth leg 12.3 " Color in alcohol.
— CephalotJwrax above yellow, a broad brown stripe from each posterior eye backward to the end of the thorax, a narrow blackish line on each side near the margin, extreme margin black; black around the posterior eyes and between the middle e\^es, forehead yellow, long white hairs above the first eye row.
Sternum pale yellow about the color of the coxse, with black spots on the lateral margins.
Ahdomen above with a pale orange, broad median band extending its entire length, in the anterior half of this band a somewhat darker band bordered on each side by small black spots; sides grayish with short ])lack streaks; venter with a black line from each lung-book to the spinnerets, the space enclosed by these lines silvery-gray.
Spinnerets yellowish.
Chelicera and maxilloi of the same yellowish color as the cephalothorax, labium blackish.
All the legs greenish-yellow below, the two posterior pairs darker ; coxie and trochanters above each with 2 or 3 black spots, and femora above each with a short black stripe on the proximal portion.
Pedipalpi yellowisli, unspotted.
20.
Pirata humicolus Montg, Numerous specimens from Cross wicks.
21.
Pirata liber Montg, Specimens from West Chester, Crosswicks and Wood's Hole.
Those from Wood's Hole compose a geographical race characterized by smaller size (largest 9 with a cephalothoracal length of only 2.6 mm.
), and by the proportionately greater extent of the dorsal eye area, which is somewhat less than one-quarter the length of the cephalothorax, 22.
Dolomedes urinator Hentz, Specimens from Crosswicks.
23.
Dolomedes idoneus Montg.
Specimens from Crosswicks.
24.
Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz.
One mature 9 from W^ood's Plole.
Eyes.
— The first row about the diameter of its eyes from the second and fully four times their diameter from the anterior edge of the head, broader than the second row, its lateral eyes slightly higher than the middle.
Eyes of the second row barely their diameter apart, slightly smaller than those of the third row.
Third row l^roadest, its eyes on eminences, this row about the diameter of one of its eyes behind the second row.
Dorsal eye area less than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax.
Form.
— Cej^halothorax distinctly longer than broad, highest behind its middle.
Length of the chelicera about one and a third times the 1903.1 655 6.5 mm 6.5 a 21.2 a 2l'2 n 20 iC height of the head in front.
Sternum as broad as long, heart-shaped.
Legs stout.
Labium less than one-half the length of the maxillae.
Dimensions Length of cephalothorax.
Length of abdomen, Length of first leg, .
Length of second leg, Length of third leg, .
Length of fourth leg.
Color in alcohol.
— Cephalothorax above greenish-brown, on each side a bright white band extending from the cheek to the posterior end of the thorax; a thin, interrupted black marginal line; a very narrow pale yellow median band from the plane of the posterior eyes backward, and just behind each posterior eye a short line of the same color; near the middle of the dorsum, touching the median band, a pair of small brown spots.
Sternum yellow, on each side three distinct black spots.
Abdomen above a chocolate-brown, on its anterior third a lighter band ; five pairs of black spots, which successively decrease in size backward, on the dorsum, the centre of each of which is a minute white spot ; on the sides a broad band of gray hairs ; sides of venter brown, the area between the Imig-books and the spinnerets yellowish.
Legs yellowish-green above, tarsi and metatarsi darker; below the femora pale sea-green, and the coxae pale yellow like the sternum; no dark annulations.
Chelicera reddish-brown, labium and maxilke dark chocolate-brown.
Explanation of Plate.
All the figures represent camera drawings of the copulatory apparatus.
Fig.
1.
— Lycosa sepulchralis, (^ pedipalp.
Fig.
2.
— Lycosa avara, epigynum.
Fig.
3.
— Pardosa 'pallida, epigynum.
Fig.
4.
— Lycosa contestata, epigynum.
Fig.
5.
— Dolomedes sexpunctatiis , epigynum.
Fig.
6.
— Pardosa lapidicina, epigynum.
Fig.
7.
— Lycosa charonoides, (^ pedipalp.
Fig.
S.~~Lycosa pratensis, epigynum.
Fig.
9.
— Pardosa lapidicina, (^ pedipalp.
RACIAL VARIATION IN PLANTS AND ANIMALS, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE BY WITMER STONE.
Having for a number of years been interested in racial variation among terrestrial vertebrates and its relation to environment and climatic conditions, I was recently led to make some investigations along the same lines among our phaenerogamic plants, in some genera of which, notably Cratccgus, Panicum, Viola, etc., species and subspecies have of late years been described at a rate quite etjual to that which has prevailed for some time past among the birds and mammals.
The genus Viola was selected for study because I have long been familiar with the more common species found in the vicinity of Philadelphia, and because an abundance of material is easily accessible in this neighborhood.
While my studies have thrown little light upon the relation of variations to conditions of environment, they have enabled me to present a pretty complete account of the variations exhibited by our local violets which may prove of assistance to those who investigate this interesting genus.
Any one at all in touch with the progress of systematic zoology and botany must be aware of the enormous number of new species and subspecies that have been named and described during the last decade.
By some, especially those who have not gone very deeply into systematic work, this tendency has been severely criticised as unwarranted multiplication of names in the interest of the describer, which tends to render specific identification more difficult on the part of the general student.
To those who have given the matter serious consideration, however, it must be evident that slowly but surely our conception of a species has been changing, and that the recognition of a very large number of new forms in systematic work is an obvious necessity on evolutionary and philogenetic grounds.
The enormous collections that have been gathered together in recent years, especially in the United States, covering thoroughly, as they do, large contiguous areas instead of isolated spots as heretofore, show us that instead of sharply defined widespread species wc have, in many cases, a number of slightly differentiated local forms, sometimes susceptible of being banded together as races of one specific group or sometimes so intricately interrelated as to involve several previously well-established "species," and to render any arrangement in groups a matter of the closest study and more or less arbitrary decision.
No one description will accurately cover all of these related races, and as the specific descriptions of older writers are often based entirely upon one race or form, there is obviously no course but to recognize the others on an equal basis.
Whether or not our present system of nomenclature will prove inadequate for the purpose remains to be seen, but under any circumstances the recognition of these forms which nature has differentiated in a greater or lesser degree will be inevitable, as it is becoming obvious that they, instead of the clumsy specific aggregate, are the fundamental units of systematic work.
The existence of these "variants" among vertebrates was first clearly accepted in the Check List of North American Birds, issued by the American Ornithologists' Union in 1886, and a system of trinomials was adopted by which they could be independently designated and at the same time their relation to their specific aggregate denoted.
This plan has been largely followed in vertebrate zoology since this time, but as material and knowledge has increased the difficulty of grouping forms in specific aggregates, in such a manner as not to do violence to the proper function of a name on the one hand and to a fact of evolution on the other, has so increased that by some writers trinomials have been all but abandoned, and binomials employed to designate every form, no matter how slightly differentiated.
In botany where the trinomial system has never been so widely adopted as in vertebrates, almost all the recently named forms are designated as species.
AsH have elsewhere stated,^ I am convinced that the use of trinomials is still our best method for denoting these races, though not on exactly the basis originally proposed in the American Ornithologists' Union Code of Nomenclature.
The results of my study of variation in the genus Viola I have considered under three headings: Racial Variation, as exhibited in plants; ^'ariation in the Genus Viola; and a Synopsis of the Violets of Philadelphia and vicinity.
For the sake of comparison I have preceded these with a brief resume of racial variation among terrestrial vertebrates. '
Condor, 1903, p. 43.
42 658 proceedings of the academy of [oct., Racial Variation among Terri^strial Vertebrates.
Variation in animals may be of several different types: (1) sexual, (2) age and seasonal, (8) dimorphic, (4) individual, albinistic, etc., and (5) specific or racial.
We have a terse nomenclature by which differences of sex, age, etc., may be denoted, and sometimes, as in birds, quite a complicated terminology by which every plumage is designated (cf.
Dwight, Auk, 1902, p. 248), but our binomial and trinomial nomenclature is used only for specific or other racial variations.
Among terrestrial vertebrates racial variation corresponds closely to geographic environment, and in many groups it is very easy to recognize the effect of the environment of several different life areas in producing recognizably distinct races from the same type.
In birds and mammals this correspondence is most marked, though among them we find some genera much more plastic than others ; the song sparrows {M elosjAza) , for instance, breaking up into a very large number of forms, while the robins {Merula) are remarkably constant over large areas.
In birds and mammals the individual variation in size, after making due allowance for age and sex, is exceedingly shght, and the same may be said of color, provided the additional allowance for season is made, so that very slight differences in measurements or in shades of color, which might appear trivial, are really constant and perfectly reliable as indications of the differentiation of a distinct form.
Among reptiles individual \ariation is very much greater, and geographic races cannot be so clearly designated as in the classes just considered.
Measurements are of little significance, except in the relation which one dimension may hold to another; color and scale formula are also subject to grea.t variation.
Some species, however, vary much more than others, and in slightly differentiated forms with a high percentage of individual variation extremes may overlap in certain respects, or an occasional individual may revert to an ancestral type in some character or other, without affecting the fact that a race has been differentiated.
Such individuals are referable to the same category as geographic intcrgrades in the usually narrow belt, where hfe-areas which have given rise to two forms merge one into the other.
In the Batrachia individual variation is further complicated by the metamorphosis which is often responsible for the persistence of certain early (larval) characters in the adult, and that many species in this class have been based upon this and other individual variations I have little doubt.
In the higher terrestrial vertebrates, as ah'ead}' pointed out, the ranges of several closely related forms are coextensive with the limits of the several life-areas to the peculiar environmental conditions of which they owe their origin.
Consequenth' we never find two geographic races or subspecies of the same form occurring together, except during times of migration.
Among reptiles, however, we dofind variants of the same form which have been generally rated as subspecies occurring in the same life-area.
We perhaps need more material and more exact data regarding habitat, etc., before the proper status of such forms is established.
They may be color types or dimorphic forms produced indiscriminately throughout the range of the species; or are, perhaps, due to local, soil or other conditions prevailing in different areas within the range of the species.
The fact that such forms occur together and intergrade, however, seems abundantly proven.
The above resume is presented, showing the conditions which exist among terrestrial vertebrates with regard to racial variation, in order that they may be compared with the conditions that prevail among plants.
Racial Variation Among Plants.
As is well known, the trees and shrubs, as well as other plants in a less degree, conform with more or less exactness to the same general laws of geographic distribution that pertain to animals; and the ranges of many species are limited by the life-zones that have been established originally from a study of birds and mammals.
When, however, a genus is represented by different forms in several life-zones, they are usually very distinct species and not closely related variants which have obviously been differentiated from a connnon parent type by prevailing environmental conditions in the several life-areas in question, such as is so frequently seen among vertebrates.
At the same time an abundance of closely related variants do exist among plants, differentiated to the same varying extent as in the geographic races of birds and mammals, but all occurring in the same lifezone or area, and often side by side.
They are, moreover, quite constant in their racial characters, and certainly not cases of individual variation.
Obviously some other agency must be responsible for this differentiation, and it is in many cases no doubt to be found in the varying soil conditions, and in other local peculiarities not sufficiently potent to affect higher animal life.
Owing to the fixed nature of plant life.
such conditions are likely to have a very marked effect in producing local forms from widely distributed species, while, on the other hand, a freely moving animal is either not so easily affected or simply avoids localities within its range where soil conditions, etc., are uncongenial.
Thus the pine-barren region of southern New Jersey, where soil conditions differ totally from the lower Delaware valley, though in the same life-zone, presents a most distinctive flora, but not a single "subspecies" of bird or mammal has been differentiated from those found in the latter area.
Such species as are not averse to the conditions there presented occur unchanged, while others simply avoid the region and are conspicuous by their absence.
Some very local races of mammals have been differentiated, it is true, in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia and other similar spots, but the effect of purely local conditions upon plant life is vastly greater than upon animals.
My studies have been entirely too limited to warrant any attempt to account for the origin of these local plant races, even in the genus to which I have devoted especial attention, but the point that I would particularly emphasize is that we have in these forms, which grow often side by side, just as clearly differentiated races as the geographic subspecies of vertebrates, and that they can be designated by trinomials to better advantage than by the binomial method now generally in vogue, even though the grouping be admittedly arbitrary in some instances (cf.
Condor, 1903, p. 43).
The careless use of the trinomial or varietal name in botany for all sorts of variation, purely individual, albinistic, etc., of course acts as a prejudice against applying it to w^ellestablished racial forms of this kind, but with the tremendous increase in species that we have recently witnessed in some genera the benefits of the trinomial system should be apparent.
Unless we are thoroughly famihar with a genus, it is impossible to tell in a strictly binomial system which forms are clearly defined species and which are slightly differentiated races of a well-known type, while the use of trinomials indicates this at a glance.
Of course, in either animals or plants there must be some limit to the number of forms recognized, and nomenclature becomes absurd when applied to variants which can only be recognized by, perhaps, one or two specialists who have devotee years to the study of the group.
This limit would seem to have been passed in the genus Cratcegns.
While there are admittedly a large number of species in eastern North America, the two hundred or more that have been proposed seem to more than cover the ground, especially since I have seen sets of specimens collected from six bushes and submitted to three leading specialists on the genus returned as belonging to twice that number of species, due to the difference in their identifications.
Variation in the Genus Viola.
My observations on the genus Viola as represented in the neighborhood of Philadelphia have covered a number of years, but during the past three seasons the study has been carried on systematically throughout the spring and summer.
Typical colonies of the various forms have been constantly under observation, and large series of specimens have been preserved at definite periods which show as nearly as possible the changes undergone by each species.
These specimens will be distributed in sets to several of the principal herbaria in the East, where they may perhaps be of assistance to others who are engaged in a study of this interesting genus.
The species of the genus Viola are divisible at once into two groups — the caulescent species, bearing both leaves and flowers upon a main stem, and the acaulescent, in which petioles and scapes spring from the root stalk.
The species of the former group are much more easily defined, and show but little of the tendency to racial variation that is characteristic of the acaulescent group.
We find three types of color in the flowers of the genus — blue, yellow and white— and all are represented in each of the above groups.
In one caulescent species V. rafinesquii the flowers are somewhat parti-colored, as in the case of the pansies of cultivation, of which this is our native representative, forming a section well distinguished from the other species by additional characters.
Among the caulescent species we also have one parti-colored race, V. pcdata, which likewise is clearly separated from the others by structural peculiarities.
It is the blue-flowered acaulescent species that present b}^ far the greatest racial and individual variation, and it is to them that I have given particular attention, and upon which the following statements are based, though all the species are considered in the review of our local violets which concludes the paper.
Leaf-form is decidedly the most striking character in violets, and one in which variation is to be seen to perfection.
There is, first of all, variation due to age, the early leaves being usually different from those produced later in the season.
The general shape of the early leaves is, moreover, very similar in a number of species which later on bear but little resemblance to one another — a fact which renders it exceedingly difficult to identify some of the descriptions of older writers based solely upon early flowering plants.
In forms in which the mature leaves are lobed or cut the early leaves are often quite or nearly entire, indicating the probable derivation of lobed-leafed s]X^cies from an entire-leaved ancestor; and the tendency toward lobatior seems to increase in all the later leaves.
Considering now the racial variations presented by the leaves, we find a tendency in two directions, starting from what I take to be the most primitive type — the cordate leaf of V. 'papilionacea, etc.
In one direction we tend toward extreme lobing or leaf division, passing successively through V. palmata dilatata, V. palmata, V. p. variahilis, V. p. angellcc, V. septcmloha and V. brittoniana, culminating with the aberrant V. pedata, in which the lobation is of a somewhat different type.
In the other direction, we pass through V. fimhriatida and its forms to the triangular-leaved T'^.
emarginata and the narrow sagittate-leaved V. sagittata.
This series has a tendency to toothed or notched bases to the leaves, and in very broad-leaved V. emarginata these teeth are exaggerated into lobes and a leaf-form is produced that comes very close to some of the V. palmata group near the other end of the series !
Individual variation is best shown in V. p. dilatata and V. p. variahilis.
In these we are likely to find every variation, from a plain cordate leaf to one with from three to seven lobes, in the same colony of plants, and many of them actually on the same individual plant.
Sometimes, too, we find leaves lobed on one side and not on the other.
That these all belong to one race is certain, though the unlobed type has often been regarded as distinct under the name of V. sororia.
That one style of leaf may prevail in one locality and another somewhere else seems quite likely, though all the colonies that I have examined exhibit a great variety of shapes.
So far as the correlation of the lobed-leaved species with peculiar soil conditions, there seems to be only contrary evidence.
The V .
palmata group are plants of the upland woods, V. septemloha is a moist-woodland violet and V. brittoniana occurs in open sandy ground, usually in moist spots, while V. pedata is a plant of dry sandy banks.
There does, however, seem to be a tendency toward narrow leaves in many wet-ground species, as seen in the linear divisions of V. brittoniana and the lanceolate leaves of V. lanceolata and sagittata.
.
In the pubescence of the leaves we have a pretty good specific character, though it seems to decrease somewhat on very old leaves, while very early leaves of V. p. dilatata are nearly glabrous, though the later ones are strongly pubescent.
In V. sagittata some colonies have slightly pubescent leaves, while the typical plants are glabrous.
V. fimbriatula and its forms, the most pubescent species of the genus, are always found on exposed dry sandy or rocky banks, but V. villosa and V. palmata, also pubescent, are woodland species, and grow closely associated with V. afjUnis, which is glabrous.
It may be said, however, that all species of moist, open ground are essentially glabrous, viz., V. cucullaia, V. crenulata and typical V. sagittata.
The relative length of petioles and scapes is often quoted as, a distinctive character, but such comparison should explicitly be made with either the first or second set of leaves, as the "flowering period" often covers the growth of the second leaves, so that early flowers are longer than the leaves while later ones are shorter.
The length and character of the peduncle of the later cleistogamic flowers is an important specific character, as first pointed out by Prof. Greene.
In some species it is long and erect, notablj'' in V. cucullata; in others horizontal, and in others still A^ery short and decurved and usually hypog?eous.
Except that in all wet-meadow species the cleistogenes are erect, we can make no correlation between their condition and the nature of their habitat, for in some forms that do not grow in wet spots, as V. emarginata, they are equally erect, while in other dry-ground species they vary much in length.
In floral characters violets seem to present a great amount of individual variation, but the difficulty of preserving the blossoms makes satisfactory comparisons on a large scale practically impossible.
While a certain tint of blue or purple is characteristic of each form, there is also a good deal of individual variation.
The marsh forms of the V. cucullata group are all pale blue, but the only colony of V. emarginata that I have studied in flower were almost as pale, though the species grows in dry, sandy situations.
On the other hand, V. sagittata, from wet meadows, has as dark purple flowers as we find in V. villosa of the dry woodlands, so that in color also we find little correspondence with immediate environment.
The extent of pubescence on the petals is an important specific character, and varies from V. septemloba, where it is confined to the bases of the lateral petals, to V. sagittata, in which it usually spreads to some extent over all, though sometimes absent from the two uppermost.
As to relative time of flowering in the vicinity of Philadelphia, V. fimbriatula, villosa and afflnis are the earliest, and are about over when cucullata, and dilatata come into bloom, the difference being about two weeks; the other acaulescent blue species begin to blossom about midway between these two groups.
With regard to geographic distribution of the forms of violets, both caulescent and acaulescent, that I have identified in eastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey, six are characteristic boreal species, being found abundantly in the highest mountain districts, where the fauna is decidedly Canadian.
Of these V. canadensis, V. selhirki, V. renifolia are restricted to this region, but V. rostrata, V. leconteana and V. roundifolia extend much farther south in suitable locations, the last two reaching the southeastern corner of Pennsylvania.
V. muhlenhergii, V. cucullata and V. scabriuscula also occur in the higher Alleghanies, but are equally as plentiful about Philadelphia.
Another group of species seems to be decidedly southern, and is limited to the low grounds of the lower Delaware and Susquehanna valleys or the coastal region of New Jersey, in the Carolinian faunal belt, viz., V. hrittoniana, V. lanceolata, V. septemloha and V. rafinesquii.
The other forms, including the various forms of V. palmata and fimhriattda, seem to range indiscriminately over the intervening country, most of them spreading over the habitat of the last group as well.
The Violets of Philadelphia and Vicinity.
The following synopsis is the result of several years' study, during which time a series of several thousand specimens has been collected and preserved and many observations upon living plants recorded.
Undoubtedly further investigations will detect additional forms, and this list is not claimed to be complete but rather a basis for future work, in the belief that local studies of the genus will aid us in eventually gaining a better understanding of its species.
In the identification of the species I have to express my deep indebtedness to Prof. Edward L. Greene, the leading authority on the genus, who very kindly examined a series of my specimens and gave me his views upon their relationship, and also to Mr. Charles Louis Pollard, who has from time to time identified specimens for me.
The types of Nuttall, Schweinitz and Muhlenberg in the herbarium of the Academy have thrown much light on the application of some of the older names.
We may consider the species in two main groups : I. Acaulescent species, leaf petioles and flower scapes both arising from the root-stalk (p. 665).
II.
Caulescent species, with a leafy stem upon which the flowers are produced (p. 686).
I, Acaulescent Species.
I.
— Plants producing stolons after the flowering season.
a.
— Flowers yellow, V. rotundifolia.
aa.
— Flowers white.
b.
— Leaves cordate at base, cleistogenes on horizontal peduncles.
c. — Petioles and scapes spotted with red, V. Uconteano.
cc.
— Petioles and scapes unspotted, .
.
.
V. blanda.
bh.
— Leaves decurrent on the petiole, cleistogenes erect.
c. — Leaves oval, V. ovata.
cc.
— Leaves lanceolate, V. lanceolata.
II.
— Plants not stoloniferous, flowers blue.
a.
— Leaves more or less lobed or cut.
b.
— Leaves and petioles pubescent.
c. — Lobes not deeply cut, only about half-way to the base, V. palviato.
cc.
— Lobes deeply cut, nearly to the base, V. p. dilatata, variabilis and angellcc.
bb.
— Leaves and petioles nearly or quite glabrous.
c. — Middle lobe undivided, no cleistogenes, V. pedata and subsp.
cc.
— Middle lobe divided in three, cleistogenes present.
d. — Leaves large; lobes broad, much narrowed at base, V. septemloba .
dd.
— Leaves medium, lobes nearly linear, V. brittoniana.
aa.
— Leaves not lobed, never coarsely toothed or sagittate at the base.
b.
— Leaves strongly hispid-pubescent above, glabrous below and on petiole, V. villosa cordifolia, bb.
— Leaves pubescent, on blade and petiole, cf.
V. palmata dilatata and V. fimbriatula aberrans.
bbb.
— Leaves glabrous or very nearly so.
c. — Cleistogenes on erect pedicels.
d. — Leaves cordate-ovate, plants medium or large, V. cucullata and subsp.
dd.
— Leaves nearly triangular, plants small, V. crenulala.
cc.
— Cleistogenes deflexed or horizontal.
d. — Leaves broadly cordate or reniform, apex not produced, flowers deep purple, V. papilionacea.
dd.
— Leaves more triangular, apex attenuate, flowers pale lilac, V. affinis.
aaa.
— Leaves sagittate, triangular or oval, usually with several coarse teeth at the base.
Leaves sagittate, usually glabrous, .
.
.
.
V. sagiitata.
Leaves oval, or with truncate base, strongly pubescent, V. fimbriatula.
Leaves triangular, thick, fleshy, glabrous.
.
V. emarginata The yellow and white acaulescent violets in the vicinity of Philadelphia are referable to five described species, all of which are sharply separated with the exception of the blanda-leconteana group, which will upon further study undoubtedly resolve itself into several well-marked races.
In fact, Prof. Greene tells me that the violet here described as V. hlanda is certainly not typical of that species, but as it is not my intention here to propose any new names, I let it stand pending a more exhaustive study of this group.
The blue-flowered species, as already stated, constitute the most puzzling group of the genus.
Apart from the aberrant V. pedata, the species fall naturally into three sections tjq^ified by V. papilio7iacea (Pis.
XXXI-XXXII), palmata (PI.
XXXIII-XXXV) and fimhriatula (PI.
XXXVI-XXXVII), though it must be confessed that V. villosa is practically midway between the first and second groups, and that some forms of V. emarginata recall the V. palmata group.
V. selkirki, of the high Alleghanies, stands quite apart with more the habit of the white-flowered species.
1.
Viola rotundifolia Michaux.
Viola rotundifolia Michaux, 1803, Flora Bor.
Amer., II, p. 1.50.
Viola clandestina Pursh, 1S14, Flora Am.
Sept., I, p. 173.
Ra7ige.
— Mountainous regions extending southward in suitable locations, reaching the valleys of Wissahickon and Crum creeks in Philadelphia and Delaware counties, where it occurs sparing^, and at one or two points in Montgomery county along the Schuylkill.
In New Jersey, according to Dr. Britton's Catalogue, it reaches the lower part of Hunterdon and upper Monmouth counties.
In its southernmost stations it usually grows under hemlocks, which are the prevalent trees in the true home of the species in the mountains.
Habitat.
— Damp banks in deep shade.
Description.
— Early flowering plant.
Crum crock, Delaware county, Pa., April 13, 1902.
No.
2,537, Herb.
W. S. Flowers bright yellow, lateral and lower petals with fine dark brown lines, which in the former are confined to the lower edge, and immediately above them is a small patch of white hairs; sepals linear, oblong, obtuse; scape 60 mm.
long, almost glabrous.
Leaves involute, not yet expanded, and in some instances scarcely visible above the ground, pale green, 25 x 30 mm., crenate, minutely puberulent above, petiole 30 mm., slightly pubescent, or in very young leaves glabrous.
Fruiting plant, Crum creek, May 30, 1901.
No.
1,180, Herb.
W. S. Scape 45 mm., capsule 8 mm., segments keeled.
Leaves flat on the ground, ovate, the latest ones orbicular, 80 x 60 mm., crenate, light green above with minute scattered hairs, pale and glabrous beneath, except on the basal part of the midrib which, with the petiole (60 mm.
), is distinctly pubescent.
These specimens bear "stolons" 100 mm.
long, which I have not found rooting, but which bear several small lanceolate bracts and a leaf 25 x 35 mm., with several cleistogenes on very short pedicels.
Still later specimens, August 4, have the leaves darker green and nearly or quite glabrous, as are the petioles; cleistogenes in fruit, nearly ripe.
2.
Viola blanda Willd.
Viola blanda Willdenow, 1806, Hortus Berolien.
PI.
XXIV.
Range.
— Through southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey, west of the pine barrens ; the records of its occurrence toward the mountains are in part confused with V. leconteana.
Rather local, though not rare about Philadelphia.
Habitat.
— Low woodlands in moist ground along streams; usually growing in large colonies.
Description.
— ^a.Tly flowering plant.
Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 10, 1903.
No.
5,159, Herb.
W. S. Root-stalk slender with dried stolons of previous year still adherent.
Flowers white, somewhat fragrant, 10 mm.
broad, lower petal heavily lined with dark purple and lateral petals with two or three lines, all glabrous; sepals lanceolate, acute.
Leaves thin, lighter beneath, glabrous; crenatc, orbicular or the earliest rcniform, cordate at base, 25 x 30 mm.
; petioles 40 mm., glabrous.
Fruiting plants, Sherwood, June 17, 1903.
No.
5,160, Herb.
W. S. Leaves very thin, with a few scattered hairs above and on the veins beneath, size 80x90 mm.
; petioles glabrous, 180 mm.
long.
Stolons very slender, 130 mm., still without leaves.
Cleistogenes on some plants only, and very slender, their scapes 15 mm.
long, horizontal.
In later specimens, August 18, from Chester county, Pennsylvania, the stolons bear small leaves and a few minute cleistogenes.
The sinus becomes mucli more open in the late summer leaves.
3.
Viola leconteana Don.
Viola avioena Le Conte, 1S28, Ann.
Lvc.
X. Y., II, p. 144 {nee Symonds, 1798).
Viola leconfeana Don, 1831, Gen.
Syst., I, p. 324.
Viola alsophila Greene, 1899, Pittonia, IV, p. 7. i^angrg.— Abundant in the mountains, extending southward in cold rocky woods to the lower Susquehanna in York and Lancaster counties, and the Brandywine below Chadd's Ford, Delaware county.
Habitat usually on damp shady rocky banks, though in the mountains it is found pretty generally throughout the forests, and is the most abundant violet.
Description.— ^pocimcn in full flower.
Chadtl's Ford, :\Iay 10, 1902, B. H. Smith.
No.
5,172, Herb.
W. S. Flowers similar to the last, but 15 mm.
broad; scapes 100 mm.
long, spotted with red.
Earliest leaves 25 x 25 mm., renifonn, orl^icular or somewhat ovate ; later leaves ovate, 40 x 50 mm., slightly pubescent above, gkibrous below; petioles red-spotted, 50 mm.
long, glabrous.
Scapes of the cleistogenes 25 mm.
in length.
Late summer fruiting plants have the leaves all ovate, usually rather acuminate, but they do not exceed 50 x 60 mm.
in size; petioles, however, vary to 150 mm.
in length.
As already stated, this and the preceding need more careful study, but I have not the necessary material at hand.
In the higher Alleghanies (Sullivan and Wyoming counties, also Fulton — Porter), Viola renifolia Gray grows with V. Icconteana, and in its later stages bears considerable resemblance to it, as the leaves often become decidedly ovate in outline.
The bristly pubescence of the petiole and veins on the under surface of the leaf, however, are in marked contrast to the smoothness of these ])arts in V. leconteana, while the upper surface in V. renifolia at this season is glabrous, instead of sparsely pubescent, as in the other species.
V. leconteana seems to be the most stoloniferous of any of the white acaulescent violets, but all of the hlanda group exceed V. primulosfolia and lanceolata in this respect.
4.
Viola primulaefolia Linn.
Viola primuhefolia Linn., 1753, Sp.
Plant., pi.
934.
Viola p. boscii D. C, 1824, Prodronius, J, p. 293.
Viola p. cordata D. C., 1824, Prodromus, I, p. 293.
Range.
— The southeastern counties of Pennsylvania, as well as in boggy places in ]\Ionroe comity, and abundant in southern New Jersey, except the pine barrens, where it is replaced very largely by the next.
Habitat.
— Open moist ground.
Description.
— Early flowering plant.
Tinicmn, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 25, 1903.
No.
5,153.
Hcrlx W. S. Flowers white, 10 mm.
broad, the lower petal strongly, the laterals slightly veined with dark purple, all glabrous; sepals lanceolate-acute; scape 40 mm., glabrous.
Leaf ovate-oblong or oval, base deciuTcnt; crenulate, 15 x 20 to 20 X 25 mm., glabrous, except base of mid vein beneath and petiole which are pubescent, petiole 10 to 15 mm.
Older flowering plant.
Tinicum, May 9.
No.
5,154, Herb.
W. S. Scapes 90 mm.
Leaves almost or quite glabrous thoughout, 35 x 23 mm., petiole 40 mm.
Cleistogenes erect on scapes 20 mm.
long.
Fruiting plant.
Tinicum, June 21, 1903.
No.
5,155, Herb.
W. S. Fruitinoscapes 140 mm.
long.
Leaves 50 x 70, glabrous; petioles 150 mm.
long, glabrous or with a few scattered hairs.
Stolons just sprouting, 50 to 60 mm.
long.
In July and August specimens the stolons bear leaves 20 x 25 mm.
on petioles 50 mm.
in length, as well as small cleistogenes.
In specimens from Willow Grove, jMontgomery county, Pennsylvania, the main leaves reach the dimensions of 60 x 100 mm.
on petioles 160 mm.
in length, while the erect cleistogenes are on pubescent scapes 80 mm.
long.
This species and the next are open-bog or wet-meadow violets, forming a very distinct group from the woodland, rocky-bank species which precede; and seem to be the southern representatives of the blanda group.
We have thus tw^o austral species and three boreal ones, the members of each group more closely related inter se than they are to any species of the other group.
Among vertebrates in a similarly distributed lot of forms we should expect to find boreal and austral derivatives of the several types, but as before stated, in plants we seem to find that the most recent differentiations have taken place within the same life-zone, and that they are not zonal in their origin or distribution.
5.
Viola lanceolata Linn.
Viola lanceolata Linn., 1753, Sp.
Plant., pi.
953.
Viola attenuata "Sweet" Don, 1831, Gen.
Syst., I, p. 322.
Range.— The southeastern counties of Pennsylvania, mainly along the Delaware and Susquehanna (also ]\Ionroe county— Porter), and abundant throughout southern New Jersey, where it is the most characteristic species of the pine-barren bogs, also up the Delaware to Warren county (Britton).
About Philadelphia it is found only in the low grounds along the Delaware.
Habitat.— Wet open bogs or meadows, often growing with V. primulcefolia, and sometimes approaching it in early leaf-forms, but the flowers are always larger, and the later leaves abundantly distinct.
Descriptio7i.
— Early flowering plant.
Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, May 9, 1903.
No.
5,156, Herb.
W. S. Flowers 15 mm.
wide, white, the lower petal strongly purple-veined, the laterals with one or two streaks; glabrous; sepals narrowly linear, acute, scapes glabrous, 100 mm.
long.
Leaves ovate-lanceolate, decurrent at base, 35 X 12 mm., obscurely crcnulate glabrous, petioles glabrous, 30-40 mm.
Cleistogenes on scapes 30 mm.
long.
Later plants have leaves lanceolate, gradually decurrent, length including petiole 175 mm., width 15 mm.
Flower scapes 170 mm.
Fruiting plant.
Tinicum, June 28, 1903.
No.
5,157, Herb.
W. S. Fruiting scapes 110 mm.
Total length of leaves 180-320 mm., width 20-30 mm.
Stolons 100 mm.
in length on some plants bearing typical leaves and minute cleistogenes.
Viola sekirkii "Pursh" Goldie, which in foliage and general appearance resemble the hlanda group, but differs in its pale blue flowers, grows plentifully in damp rocky situations in the hemlock forests of Sullivan and Wyoming counties, Pennsylvania, on the North Mountain; and has also been found in Monroe and Somerset counties (Porter).
6.
Viola papilionacea Pursh.
(PI.
XXXII, fig.
i; PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
iii ) Viola papiliono.cea Pursh, 1814, Flor.
Amer.
Sept., I, p. 173.
Viola communis Pollard, 189S, Bob.
Gazette, XXVI, p. 3.36 {nee Wittrock).
Viola domestica Bicknell, 1898, in Britton and Bro^vn, 111.
Flora, III, p. 519.
Viola ohliqua Britton and Brown, 1898, III.
Flora, II, p. 447 {nee Hill).
Range.
— The commonest violet through eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey, though apparently not found on the higher Alleghanies, or in the pine barrens.
Habitat.
— Meadows, fields, fence-rows, etc., also in low woodland.
Description.
— Early flowering plant.
Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 10, 1903.
No.
5,119, Herb.
W. S. Root-stalk thick and ribbed.
Flower 20 mm.
wide, deep violet-purple ("violet" of Ridgway's Nomenclature of Colors), the petals white at the base, the lower and lateral ones with dark lines, the latter also with a round patch of white hairs which is confined to the white basal area, other petals glabrous ; the two upper ones usually recurved ; sepals ovate-lanceolate, rather blunt; scape glabrous, 60 mm.
long.
Leaves cucullate, cordate in outline and distinctly crenatc, 25x30 mm., glabrous; petiole pubescent on convex side, 40 mm.
in length.
Later flowering plant.
Media, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 26, 1903.
No.
5,121, Herb.
W. S. Exactly like the last, but leaves 40 X 50, petioles 80 mm., and scapes 100 mm.
Fruiting specimen.
iMedia, June 4, 1903.
No.5.122, Herb.
W. S. Leaves somewhat doubly crenate, 110 x 120 mm., petiole 275 mm., otherwise as before, fruiting scapes 80 mm.
(apparently from cleistogenes).
Other specimens, Sherwood, May 17, 1903, have cleistogenes in all stages of development on decurved peduncles 20 mm.
in length, leaves 80 x 90 mm.
The general tendency in old leaves is to become widespread at the base, as contrasted with the narrow sinus of the early flowering season ; and I can see no other character in V. domestica Bicknell that is not attributable to the rich soil of cultivated ground.
^lany other species will become distinctly ranker than the wild plant when transferred to rich garden soil.
The above descriptions of V. papilionacea are taken froni two colonies only.
Many others examined agreed with them exactly in leaf characters, but a further examination may show some variation in shape of petals, extent of pubescence, etc., which I have not yet detected.
The petals are usually recurved, sometimes very markedly so, as in specimens from the hilly woods bordering the Schuylkill at Gladwyn in which they are quite long and narrow.
Woodland plants have usually bluer flowers.
As to the proper name for this species, I agree with Prof. Greene and Mr. Pollard in their latest decision that papilionacea Pursh is the earliest name based upon the present plant.
It has a further advantage in apparently never having been used by subsequent authors for any other species, a decided point in its favor!
7.
Viola papilionacea subsp.
I have found in dry upland woodland on Crum creek, Delaware county, a quite distinct ally of V. papilionacea, with a lighter rootstalk and more delicate foliage.
Leaves more acuminate and rather more coarsely crenate, glabrous except for minute silvery appressed hairs scattered along the veins above; petioles glabrous, 180 mm.
long; cleistogenes horizontal, not recurved ; scapes 60 mm.
in length.
Only having fruiting specimens.
May 17, 1903, No.
5,126, Herb., W. S., I am unable as yet to properly describe this form.
Prof. Greene regards it as a distinct species.
8.
Viola affinis Le Conte.
(PI.
XXXI, fig.
ii.)
Viola .I.Jims Le Conte, 1828, Ann.
T.yc.
N. Y., II, p. 138.
Viola ohliqua Pollard, 1901, in Britton's Manual, p. 636 {nee Hill).
i^angre.— Southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey exclusive of the pine barrens, apparently not extending to the mountains.
Habitat.
— Rich woodlands.
Description.
— Early flowering plant.
Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 19, 1903.
No.
5,103, Herb.
W. S. Flowers 20 mm.
in diameter, pale Hlac ("lilac" of Ridgway), deepening into blue just at the junction with the white throat, darker purple veins on lower and lateral petals, bearding on lateral petals not entirely confined to the white area, but extending a little way on to the blue; lower petals slightly hairy at base; sepals ovate-lanceolate, acuminate; scapes 60-70 mm.
long, glabrous.
Leaves rather light green, somewhat cucullate; cordate, or usually nearly triangular, 20 x 25 mm., rather coarsely crenate, glabrous; petioles 40-50 mm., glabrous.
Later specimens, Sherwood, April 29, 1903.
No.
5,104, Herb.
W. S. Scapes 70-100 mm.
Leaves 30 x 40, wider at base and more attenuate at apex, cucullate and coarsely crenate, petioles 60-90 mm.
A few cleistogenes present on scapes 25 mm.
long.
Fruiting plants, Sherwood, June 17, 1903.
No.
5,105, Herb.
W. S. Leaves 70 x 80, coarsely and irregularly crenate-dentate, sometimes with very minute silvery hairs scattered on the veins above; petioles 160 mm., glabrous.
Cleistogenes obliquely ascending or later deflexed, peduncles not more than 50 mm.
long.
This species is well characterized by its general slenderness, thin, glabrous leaves, with coarsely crenate margins and pale jElowers.
At Sherwood it grows with V. villosa cordifolia and V. palmata dilatata in about equal abundance, and the three can be distinguished at a glance by foliage alone — V. ajjinis always glabrous, V. villosa cordifolia almost hispid-pubescent above, but glabrous beneath and on the petioles, and V. p. dilatata pubescent all over.
I would strongly advocate the use of Le Conte's name afflnis for this violet.
We not only know that this is what he had in view, but the name has been conceded to this species ever since its resurrection until ^Ir.
Pollard, in Britton's Manual, foisted the old much-abused name obliqua of Hill upon it.
Nobody knows what Hill's obliqua is, and the fact that no two persons seem to agree is argument enough that it should be discarded as unrecognizable along with cor data Walter and some others.
Many other old names are difficult to identify with certainty, but where successive authorities have been in general agreement there is strong ground for their retention.
To illustrate a little of the obscurity that surrounds obliqua of Hill, we may state that in 1896 Mr. Pollard applied it to V. ciicuUata + papilionacea.
In 1898 he applied it to some form that he regarded distinct from either; then it was alloted to V. papilionacea, and now is again transferred to afjinis.
In marked contrast to his later views Mr. Pollard, when making his first application of the name, states that the species "is so well figured as to leave not the slightest doubt concerning the plant to which it refers."
Prof. Greene, on the other hand, says "it does not half represent any violet that ever grew in any country," and calls attention to the fact that Pursh thought it applied to V. blanda, while Gray at one time suspected it to be V. rotundifolia!
I give these opinions of V. obliqua simply to show the futility of attempting to use it in any sense.
9.
Viola cucullata Ait.
(PL XXXII, fig.
ii; PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
iv.)
Viola cucullata Alton, 1789, Hortus Kewensis, III, p. 288.
Range.
— ^Apparently throughout Pennsylvania and New Jersey, except the pine barrens, though the relative range of this and the two follo-^dng has still to be worked out.
One form at least occurs in the higher Alleghanies.
Habitat.
— Swamps and wet meadows, often growing in the water in spring heads and shallow ditches.
Plentiful about Philadelphia.
Description.
— Flowering plant.
Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, May 9, 1903.
No.
5,128, Herb.
W. S. Flowers 20-25 mm.
broad, pale blue ("campanula blue" of RidgwajO becoming darker toward the throat, which is white; lower and lateral petals lined with pm'ple, the former glabrous, the latter with restricted patches of white beard; sepals rather long, lanceolate, acuminate; scapes glabrous, 150180 mm.
long.
Leaves cucullate, cordate-ovate, crenate, glabrous, 35 X 45 mm.
(the earliest more nearly orbicular, 25 x 30) ; petioles 80-90 mm., glabrous; peduncles of cleistogenes already 20 mm.
in length.
Fruiting plant.
Tinicum, May 23, 1903.
No.
5,129, Herb.
W. S. Leaves strongly cucullate, with very minute silvery hairs scattered along the veins above, otherwise glabrous; coarsely but regularly crenate, 70 x 75 mm.
; petioles 260 mm.
Fruiting scapes and cleistogenes 225-300 mm.
long.
Some later fruiting cleistogenes (June 28) have peduncles 350 mm.
in length.
This species is distinguished by its very long flower scapes and the enormous length attained by both scapes and petioles in fruiting plants.
The cleistogenes are strictly erect, and the blades of the leaves never reach the size of V. papilionacea; the blue, not purple, flowers are also characteristic.
The tv/o races which follow are closely related, and have not yet been studied from very large series.
Thinking the specimens I had might be different from V. cucullata — especially No.
5,132 — I submitted them to Prof. Greene, and he identified them as his new species V. macrotis and V. leptosepala.
10.
Viola cucullata macrotis (Greene).
Viola macrotis Greene, 1902, Pittonia, V, p. 97.
Range.
— Shady swampy spots in western New Jersey, between the pine barrens and the Delaware; doubtless elsewhere as well.
Description.
— Flowering plants, Medford, New Jersey, May 5, 1903.
No.
1004, Herb.
W. S. Similar to cucullata, but flowers larger; petals very broad ; leaves usually with larger blades, less cucullate and thinner; sepals minutely ciliate on.
the margins, and scapes and petioles often with a few scattered hairs.
43 11.
Viola cucullata leptosepala (Greene).
Viola leptosepala Greene, 1902, Pittonia, V, p. 98.
Range.
— Shady bogs, western New Jersey; probably more extendecL Description.
— Flowering plants, Springvale, Camden county.
New Jersey, May 10, 190.3.
No.
5,1.32, Herb.
W. S. Generally similar to cucullata, but much more slender and delicate and plants solitary; leaves more elongate; flowers large, with remarkably long, slender sepals, 12 mm.
long and less than 2 in width.
Scapes and petioles very slender and with scattered hairs, most plentiful on the lower part.
12.
Viola crenulata Greene.
(PI.
XXXII, fig.
iii.)
Viola crenulata Greene, 1901, Pittonia, IV, p. 295.
Range.
— Only detected in Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, as yet.
Habitat.
— Open wet meadows and swamps, but in drier spots than V. cucullata.
Description.
— Flowering plant.
Tiniciun, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 25, 1903.
No.
5,127, Herb., W. S. Flowers pale hlacblue, darker near the base of the petals, throat white, 12 mm.
in diameter; petals slender, the lower rather broad, slightly pubescent at base ; laterals with conspicuous bearded patch; sepals slender lanceolate; scapes 80 mm., glabrous.
Leaves triangular-cordate, much attenuated at apex, pale green, glabrous, except for very minute appresscd scattered hairs on the veins above, size 20 x 2S, coarsely crenate (earliest leaves less pointed); petioles 50 mm.
; cleistogenes already 25 mm.
high.
Late summer plants (August 15, 1903), past the fruiting stage, have leaves 35 x 40, but otherwise exactly like the earlier ones; petioles 90 mm.
long, which evidently represents the maximum growth of this little plant.
This delicate little violet, while related to the cucullata group, is very distinct, differing in the color of both flowers and leaves, in the shape of the latter and the very small size, being smaller in late summer than V. cucullata when it is in early flower.
The April specimens above described had evidently been in flower some time, as evidenced by the development of the cleistogenes.
13.
Viola villosa cordifolia Nutt.
(PI.
XXXI, fig.
i.)
Viola villosa cordifolia Nuttall, 1818, Genera, I, p. 148.
Viola sororia nuttallii Don, 1831, Gen.
Syst., I, p. 324.
Viola cucullata var.
cordata Gray, Manual, 5th ed., p. 78, in part (prob.
not cordata Walter).
Viola ciliata Muhl., 1813, Cat., p. 26.
Range.
— Pennsylvania, apparently not extending to tlie higher mountains; the northern and middle counties of New Jersey, and rarely in Camden county, but not in the pine barrens.
Habitat.
— High dry woodland.
Description.
— Early flowering plant.
Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 10,1903.
No.
5,100 Herb.
W. S. Flowers red-purple (near "asterpurple" of Ridgway), white in the throat; but slightly veined; upper petals rounded, not at all recurved; lateral petals bearded near the base, as in affinis, but lower petal often nearly glabrous; width of flowers 15-18 mm.
; sepals lanceolate or ovate-lanceolate, rather obtuse; scapes 40-50 mm., glabrous.
Leaves dark green, silverypubescent above, glabrous and reddish beneath, and frequently prostrate on the ground; reniform orbicular or cordate, crenate, 20x25 mm.
; petioles 30-40 mm., glabrous and reddish at base.
Later specimens, April 29, have leaves ovate-cordate, 25x35 mm., and bear horizontal cleistogenes on peduncles 30 mm.
long.
Fruiting plant, Sherwood, June 17, 1903.
No.
5,102, Herb., W. S. Leaves round-cordate, 65x70 mm.
; petioles 110 mm.
long; fruiting scapes 60 mm.
These later leaves are usually erect, and not prostrate like the earliest ones, and are sometimes slightly cucullate.
This violet is at all times distinguished by the almost bristly, silverypubescence on the upper surface of the leaves and by its dark reddishpurple flowers.
There would seem to be two separable forms confused under the name villosa, as Prof. Greene tells me that the plant I have described above is not true villosa, to which I had unhesitatingly referred it, and states that he knows both plants well.
The type of villosa came from South Carolina, and if the form found there is distinct from the present plant, Walter's name unquestionably belongs to it.
Nuttall seems to have been the only writer to recognize two forms of this type of violet, and he based his V. cordijoUa upon specimens from "dry woods on the banks of the Schuylkill near Philadelphia."
That his description applies to the above plant seems to me beyond question, and I have, therefore, adopted it.
An examination of Muhlenberg's herbarium shows that his V. ciliata is either the above or true villosa.
That his names as they stand are mere nomina nuda is emphasized by the general assumption that in this instance he had V. frmbriatida in mind !
14.
Viola palmata Linn.
(PI.
XXXIV, fig.
i; PI.
XXXIX, fig.
i.)
Viola palmata Linnaeus, 1753, Sp.
Plant., p. 933.
Range.
— So far detected only in Tinicum township, Delaware county, and near Valley Forge, Pennsylvania.
Habitat.
— Drv, shaded localities.
Description.
— Flowering plant.
Tinicuni, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, May 3, 1902.
No.
2,601, Herb.
W. S. Flowers large, 25 mm, broad, deep violet-purple, conspicuously bluer toward the base of the petals, which is white; pubescence restricted to white area on lateral petals; lower petal glabrous ; sepals ovate-lanceolate, broad, and rather blunt; scapes slightly pubescent, 120 mm.
long.
Leaves moderately pubescent above and below ; earliest 20 x 25 mm.
, later ones 45 x 50 mm.
; much lobed, but none of the incisions reaching more than half-way to the base; petioles pubescent, 90-120 mm.
; cleistogenes on short horizontal peduncles 30 mm.
long.
Later plants, June 28, similar, but leaves nearly glabrous, except on the veins beneath, size SO x 110 mm.
; petioles 180, cleistogenes short, dcflexed.
Late summer leaves reach the dimensions of 120 x 150 mm., with petioles 300 mm.
in length.
The apparent rarity of this violet would make me hesitate in regarding it as a separate form were it not for its very distinct characters and the assurance of Prof. Greene.
Probably I have not yet discovered its stronghold, or perhaps it is rare in the vicinity of Philadelphia, l^ut plentiful elsewhere.
15.
Viola palmata dilatata Ell.
(PL XXXIII; PI.
XXXIX, figs, iv and v.) Viola palmata dilatata Elliot, 1817, Bot.
of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300.
^Viola palmata fragrans Elliot, 1817, Bot.
of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300.
?Viola palmata vulgaris Elliot, 1817, Bot.
of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300.
IViola palmata esculenta Elliot, 1817, Bot.
of S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300.
Viola heterophylla Mulil., 1813, Cat., p. 25 {nee Poiret).
Viola triloba Schw., 1822, Amer.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 57.
'IViola congener Le Conte, 1828, Ann.
Lye.
N. Y., II, p. 140.
IViola sororia Willdenow, 1806, Hort.
Berol., PI.
LXXII.
Viola asarifolia Pursh, 1814, Flor.
Am.
Sept., Suppl., p. 732 {nee Muhlenberg).
Range.
— Eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey exclusive of the pine barrens.
Habitat.
— Dry upland or sandy woods and shady localities.
Description.
— Early flowering plant.
Sherwood, Philadelphia, April 29, 1903.
No.
5,106, Herb.
W. S. Flowers large, rich purple, with darker lines on lower petals, white at base of petals; pubescence in rounded patch in white area on lateral petals; lower petal slightly pubescent at base; width of flower 20 mm.
; sepals broadly ovatelanceolate, rather blunt; scapes glabrous, 50-70 mm.
long.
Leaves 30] X 35 mm., cordate, coarsely crenate or variously 3to 5-lobed, divisions not usually deeply cut ; pubescent on both sides as well as the petioles, which are 40-50 mm.
long.
I Later plants, Sherwood, May 17, 1903.
No.
5,107, Herb.
W. S. Similar leaves 50x60 mm.
; petioles 100-110 mm.
; scapes 90-100 mm.
; cleistogenes horizontal or slightly ascending, 20-40 mm.
long.
Fruiting plants, Jmie 17, 70x80-80x100 mm.
; petioles 225 mm.
long, fruiting cleistogenes 50-60 mm.
long.
A glance at PI.
XXXIII will show to what extent the leaves of this violet vary; all sorts of forms may occmon one plant, or we may have plants with the leaves all uncut.
The latter are supposed to be the basis of Willdenow's Viola sororia.
I fail to see, however, on what grounds this can be regarded as a separable form, even as a subspecies, as is done in Britton's Manual.
On the other hand, if we regard it as the same as dilatata, it must supersede it, being an older name.
To my mind the same arguments apply here as in the case of V. obliqua Hill.
Nobody can ascertain what the original plant was, and in view of the various uses to which the name has been put, it had best be discarded as unrecognizable.
The several other varieties given by Elliot are probably not separable from this, and Schweinitz specimens which I have examined prove his triloba to be the same thing, while hderophylla Muhl.
and asarifolia Pursh, while probable referable to this, are neither of them availal^le.
This is one of the most common woodland violets found about Philadelphia, and may be recognized from any (except the next) by its uniform pubescence, which is especially marked on very young leaves, though disappearing to some extent on the large foliage of late summer.
16.
Viola palmata variabilis (Greene).
Viola variabilis Greene, 1902, Pittonia, V, p. 91.
Range.
— Apparently higher ground, nearer to the mountains or foothills.
Habitat.
— Dry woodlands.
Description.
— A close ally of the preceding, but smaller and much more pubescent, quite villose on young leaves.
Flowers similar but leaves more deeply divided and with fewer uncut leaves.
Specimens from Argus, Bucks county, Pennsjdvania, May 8, 1903, Stewardson Brown, No.
5,110, and June 8, Dr. C. D. Fretz, No.
5,111, Herb.
W. S. These plants have been identified as V. variabilis by Prof. Greene, while the former, whicli I have called dilatata, he considers not sufficiently pubescent and in other ways unlike this form.
It may be that further study with more material may show that they are not distinguishable.
17.
Viola palmata angellae (Pollard).
(PI.
XXXIV, fig.
ii.)
Viola angclUe Pollard, 1902, Torreya, II, No.
2, p. 24.
Range.
— Found so far only in the neighborhood of Cheyney, Chester county, Pennsylvania.
Habitat.
— Rich woodland.
This violet (No.
3,094, Herb., W. S.) I collected on June 22, 1902, it being then well past the flowering stage.
Comparison with typical specimens from Grange, New Jersey, kindly sent me by Miss Lillic Angell, seems to prove the identity of the two, and Prof. Greene coincides with my identification.
All the leaves, even the earliest (wliich are still retained), are cut, the later ones having the incisions rather rounded at the base, and the lobes, except the middle, are quite uniform.
The difference in the appearance of the leaves between this and the other forms can be seen by comparing the figures on the plate.
The petioles and the veins on the under side of the leaf are quite pubescent, but the upper surface is but slightly so.
Leaves 70 x 75 mm.
; petioles 150-17.5 mm.
long.
Cleistogenes on deflexed or prostrate peduncles 20 mm.
in length.
18.
Viola septemloba Le Conte.
(PI.
XXXV, fig.
ii; PI.
XXXIX, fig.
iii.)
\'iola septemloba Le Conte, 1S28, Ann.
Lye.
N. Y., II, p. 141.
Range.
— Apparently a southern species, ranging across the southern border of Pennsylvania.
I have it from Kennett Square and several miles north of Coatesvillc, both in Chester county.
Habitat.
— Low moist woodland.
Description.
— Flowering plants.
Kennett Square, May 7, 1903, C. J. Pennock.
No.
5,112, Herb.
W. S. Flowers very large, 25 mm.
broad, violet-]3urpje, distinctly darker blue near the base of the petals, white basal area well developed ; upper petals particularly large, 10 x 20 mm.
; lower petals glabrous and beard on laterals short and restricted; sepals very broad and relatively short; scapes 125 mm.
long, glabrous.
Leaves all deeply cut, except some of tlie earliest, in which the indentations are slight; segments of the later leaves taper rapidly to scarcely more than a millimeter in width at base ; 7 to 9 principal divisions; earliest leaves 30x35, later 50x60 mm., glabrous, except for a fringe of very minute hairs on the later leaves ; petioles respectively 50 and 120 mm., glaljrous; cleistogenes 30 mm.
long.
Fruiting specimens.
Kennett Square, May 25, 1902.
No.
5,113, Herb.
W. S. Leaves 90 x 100 mm., with some ver}^ minute hairs above and on the margin, but appearing glabrous; petioles 320 nmi.
long, glabrous; cleistogenes in fruit on peduncles 100 mm.
long.
This beautiful and distinct violet I have long considered to be Le Conte's septernloba, a species not recognized in any of our manuals, and I am much gratified to have Prof. Greene's endorsement and statement that it matches well the water-color drawing of Le Conte in his possession.
Its large flowers, only matched by V. britioniana, its peculiarly lobed, essentially glabrous leaves, and its great size in late summer — some plants measure 15 inches in height — serve easily to distinguish it from any other violet.
19.
Viola brittoniana Pollard.
(PI.
XXXV, fig.
i; PI.
XXXIX, fig.
ii.)
Viola atlaniica Britton, 1897, Bull.
Torrey Bot.
Club, XXIV, p. 92 (jiec atlantica Pomel, 1874).
Viola brittoniana Pollard, 1898, Bot.
Gazette, XXVI, p. 332.
Range.
— All along the New Jersey coast, and at points in the southern pine barrens (Egg Harbor and Tuckahoe), also up the Delaware valley, occurring at vSpringdale, Camden county, New Jersey, and Tidlytown, Bucks county, Pennsylvania.
Habitat.
— Damp, sandy, open ground.
Description.
— Flowering plant.
Springdale, New Jersey, May 10, 1903.
No.
5,114, Herb.
W. S. Flowers very large, 28 mm.
across, rich violet, inclining to lilac (somewhat lighter than Ridgway's "asterpurple"), without any deeper blue tint near the base of tlie petals, such as is found in the preceding cut-leaved species ; white area of the throat extended especially on the upper petals, pubescence on lateral and lower petals short but spreading out beyond the white area, a scattering of hairs on the upper petals as well, sepals narrowly lanceolateacute; scape glabrous, 125 mm.
in length.
Leaves all much divided, earliest ones reddish beneath, divisions extending about three-quarters of the distance to the base, middle segment much broader than the others, size 30 x 30 mm.
; later leaves divided to the base into three segments, and each of these again divided almost to the base, making nine irregularly toothed, nearly equal narrow lobes; size 70 x 75.
The leaves appear glabrous, but have a scattering of exceedingly minute hairs, scarcely discernible to the naked eye, on the upper surface and margin ; the later leaves are decidedly cucullate ; petioles 90 mm.
long, those of earliest leaves 30-40 mm.
Fruiting plant.
Springdale, June 27, 1903.
No.
5,115, Herb.
W. S. Leaves 70 x 90 mm., petioles 225 mm.
; cleistogenes on erect peduncles 150-200 mm.
tall.
The late foliage seems somewhat harsh to the touch, probably due to the minute marginal pubescence.
This very distinct violet seems to have escaped the notice of all the early writers, and had not Dr. Britton been unfortunate in selecting for it a name already used for a foreign species, it would have no synonyms.
The foliage represents the extreme of the palmately cut species ; some leaves have the central lobe wider than the others, but the narrow lobes are the rule, and I have yet to see an uncut leaf even among the earliest, though such a reversion is quite likely to occur occasionally in any of these violets.
In the uniformly colored flowers and tall, erect cl^istogcnes, this species departs widely from all the foregoing.
In the Springdale colony are one or two stocks which look decidedly different, though obviously hrittoniana in whole or in part — if we admit the possibility of occasional hybridism.
These have the lobes of the leaves less deeply cut, the central lobe much wider than the others, and altogether recall strongly the extreme forms of V. emarginata (PL XXXVI, fig.
v) .
The leaf is too roimd in outline for that species, but the ■resemblance shows how curiously interrelated these acaulescent violets are and what cases of parallel development occur.
V. brittoniana X T".
cucidlata would, to my mind, produce just such a plant as this, and at this spot they both occur intermingled.
On the other hand, it may equally as well be regarded as an aberrant form of V. brittoniana.
The small number of plants and the association with large numbers of the other species should, to my mind, deter any one from naming such a form as this, but I fear they have not always done so in the past.
20.
Viola pedata Linn.
Viola pedata Linnreus, 1753, Sp.
Plant., p. 933.
Viola multifida Mill., 1768, Diet., 8 ed.
(fide Greene).
Viola pedata atropurpurea "Raf."
D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291.
Viola pedata bicolor "Pursh," "Raf."
D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291 (in synonymy).
Range.
— I have found this species only near Mortonville, Chester county, Pennsylvania, but have heard of it from other points in this county and Delaware.
In Britton's New Jersey Catalogue it is recorded from Phillipsburg, Belvidere and Oxford.
Habitat.
— Dry sandy banks.
Description.
— Without satisfactory material, I may merely say that this differs from the next in having the upper petals deep velvety purple.
There may be other differences, but I am not prepared to discuss them.
I must confess, however, "that I have much doubt whether this is really a distinct form from the next, as they grow so intimately intermingled.
In case it is regarded as an individual variation only, then the name pedata will cover them both.
21.
Viola pedata lineariloba D. C. Viola pedata lineariloba D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291.
Wiola pedata rammculi folia D. C, 1824, Prodr., I, p. 291.
Viola pedata inornata Greene, 1896, Pittonia, III, p. 35. iSangre.— Southeastern counties of Pennsylvania and in southern New Jersey (apparently not in the typical pine barrens).
To the northward it ranges to Monroe, Northampton, Lancaster and Huntingdon counties in Pennsylvania (Porter), and to several stations in the northern counties of New Jersey— Sussex, Essex, Union, Somerset, Warren and Himterdon (Britton).
Habitat.— Dry sandy banks, or sandy open woods and clearings, necessarily local, though often very abundant.
The nearest stations to Philadelphia are the serpentine outcrops of Delaware county and sandy pine woods near Springdale, New Jersey.
Description.— Eavly flowering plant, Media, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 26, 1903.
No.
5,117, Herb., W. S. Flowers large, flat —i.e., petals nearly in one plane~20-35 mm.
in diameter, all glabrous, and without darker lines, blue (or occasionally lilac or white), stigma not bearded nor rostrate; sepals long, linear-lanceolate; scapes glabrous, 70-90 mm.
(stunted plants in very barren soil have them much shorter).
I>eaves glabrous, all divided into 7 to 11 linear lobes, toothed at the end ; the earliest leaves have the lobes less numerous and spatulate; size 15 x 18 mm.
; later leaves 25 x 25 mm.
; petioles 20-50 mm., glabrous.
Late fruiting plants.
Media, June 4.
No.
5,118, Herb., W. S. Leaves 45 x 50, petioles 100 mm.
long.
Fruiting scapes 80 mm.
No cleistogenes are produced in this species.
The variety of size, both in plants and flowers, owing to the nature of the soil, is very great.
I have specimens in full bloom in which the leaves are 2 inches high and the flowers 3, while from another locality I have plants of apparently the same age in which the leaves reach six inches and the flowers 7.
Some anomalous plants collected in late summer have very broad segments to the leaf — in fact, they are sometimes reduced to coarse teeth— and are minutely pubescent.
These I take to be a second crop of leaves, produced through some unusual activity, or perhaps due to arrested development in spring, since the leaves usually wither away by midsummer.
Such plants have, moreover, been collected in full flower in late August and September.
The lobing of Viola pedata and V. p. lineariloba is on a different plan from that exhibited in the foregoing cut-leaved species.
In all palmate or pedate violets the primary division is in three parts.
In V. palmata dilatata the process frequently stops at the trilobed stage, but in V. scptemloha the middle segment regularly divides in three, and the lateral ones into two, while in V. brittoniana each segment divides into three.
There are, of course, some deviations, but these are the normal types of leaf in the several species.
In the pedata group, however, the central lobe does not divide, while the lateral ones in typical leaves are fourparted.
Occasionally V. brittoniana comes very near to this type by producing only one lateral lobe to the middle segment, and in one leaf in my collection it is undivided.
This denotes a tendency toward the pedata type, which must be the extreme of development in this direction.
If this form is regarded as separable from the preceding it must bear DeCandolle's name lineariloba, which has priority over Prof. Greene's inornata.
Both are based upon the same plate of Curtis' Botanical Magazine.
22.
Viola fimbriatula Smith.
(PI.
XXXVII, figs, i-iii; PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
v.) Viola primidoefolia Pursh, 1S14, Flora Am.
Sept., I, p. 173 (nee Linn.).
Viola fimbriatula Smith, 1817, Rees' Cyclop., XXXVIII.
Viola ovata Nuttall, ISIS, Gen., I, p. 148.
Viola ovata belvisiana D. C., 1824, Prodr., I, p. 294.
Viola sagittata hicksii Pollard, 189.5, Bot.
Gazette, XX, p. .326.
Range.
— From the lower mountains to the coast, through eastern Pennsylvania and central and southern New Jersey (not plentiful in the pine barrens) .
Habitat.
— Dry sandy or rocky banks and fields.
Description.
— Flowering plant.
Media, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 26, 1903.
No.
5,145, Herb., W. S. Flowers 10-15 mm.
broad, purple (between "aster-purple" and "violet" of Ridgway) ; petals white at the base, the lower one lined with darker; lateral petals with conspicuous patch of beard, lower one slightly pubescent; sepals lanceolate ; scape pubescent, 30 mm.
long.
Leaves ovatecordate, obscurely crenate, except at base, where teeth are more conspicuous, 15 x 20-18 x 30 ; thick and very pubescent, especially above; decurrent on the petiole, which is also densely pubescent, 12-18 mm.
long.
Later flowering specimens have leaves 28 x 45 mm., petioles 35 mm.
and scapes 60 mm.
in length.
Fruiting plant, Media, June 4, 1903.
No.
5,146, Herb., W. S. Pubescent all over; scapes 70 mm.
; leaves 45 x 75 mm.
; petioles 45-60 mm.
; cleistogenes erect, 45 mm.
high.
In some very dry exposed spots this species becomes quite stunted, but flowers profusely.
A root from Gladwyn, April 26, has leaves only 7 x 12 mm., petioles 5 mm., but bears seven flowers on scapes 35 mm.
in length.
The leaves are always very numerous, and owing to the short petioles — usually less than the blade — they appear very much crowded.
Sometimes the teeth at the base are scarcely larger than the other crenations, while in other specimens two or three of them are quite prominent, showing an approach to V. sagittata.
The above descriptions apply to typical V. fimhriatula, but the plant is exceedingly variable and notwithstanding the fact that in their typical forms the present species and V. sagittata are abundantly distinct, there occur forms which are about as nearly intermediate as they can well be, so that the old practice of making one a subspecies of the other is by no means as absurd as Mr. Pollard would have us believe {Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., X, p. 89).
One form which occurs abundantly near Christiana, Lancaster county (PL XXXVII, fig.
ii), has leaves truly sagittate, 20 x 70 mm., with petioles more than twice as long.
The whole plant is strongly pubescent, and the early leaves ovate.
Prof. Greene identifies it as "uncommonly long-leaved firnbriatula."
The step from this to the pubescent sagittata described beyond is surely very short.
It is possible that there may be a separable intermediate form, but the question wnll bear more study before the true status of these intermediates is determined.
In another direction V. /im6n'a/w/a approaches the leaf-form of V. papilionacea, and this form which is quite sharply defined has been named by Prof. Greene V. aberrans.
23.
Viola fimbriatula aberrans (Greene).
(PI.
XXXVII, figs, iv-vi.)
Violn aberrans Greene MSS.
Range.
— Apparently coincides with that of the former.
Habitat.
— Dry sandy and rocky banks, usually with V. fimbriatula, but less abundant, and always easily distinct.
Description.
— This is essentially a long petioled V. -fimbriatula, with broad, cordate, somewhat cucullatc leaves, without strong basal teeth and usually somewhat less pubescent.
Flowering plant, Media, Pennsylvania, April 26, 1903.
No.
5,147, Herb., W. S. Similar to preceding, but leaves 18 x 30 mm.
; petioles 60 mm.
; scapes 100 mm.
Fruiting plant, Media, June 4.
No.
5,148, Herb., W. S. I-eaves 75 X 100 mm.
; petioles 210 mm.
; cleistogenes horizontal, 30 mm.
long.
This is a very well-marked form, though not common in the immediate vicinity of Philadelphia.
Mr. Pollard's V. porteriana does not seem to occiu' in this vicinity at all, so that I have been unable to study it.
I should, however, have very grave doubts about referring it to V. dentata of Pursh, which grows "in wet meadows and woods"!
I fail to see the advantage of trying to utilize old names which are coupled with such conflicting statements as this.
I am aware that some forms of the fimhriatula gi'oup with nearly or entirely glabrous foliage occur in the New Jersey coast districts, but have not as yet had opportunities for studying them.
24.
Viola sagitatta Ait.
(PI.
XXXVI, figs, i-iii; PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
i.)
Viola sagittata Aiton, 1789, Hort.
Kewensis, III, p. 287.
Range.
— Southeastern Pennsylvania, central and northern New Jersey, southward through the Delaware valley.
Habitat.
— Moist meadows (forms occur also in dry ground).
Description.
— Flowering plant, Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 25, 1903.
No.
5,133, Herb., W. S. Flower 15-18 mm.
broad, dark purple ("violet" of Ridgway); all petals strongly veined with a darker shade, bases white, sometimes running out on upper petals to form a white spot at the point where they are reflexed ; beard on laterals in a large basal patch, from which a scattered pubescence extends on to the purple area; base of lower and often exposed part of upper petals pubescent; upper petals usually large, rounded and nearly flat, and sometimes emarginate.
Sepals linear-lanceolate, acute; scape glabrous, 50 mm.
long.
Leaves somewhat variable, the earliest nearly triangular, the others ovate-oblong or sagittate, generally rounded at the apex, crenate, with two or three prominent teeth at the base, glabrous, 8x12-12x25 mm.
; petioles 15-45 mm., glabrous.
Later specimens, Tinicum, May 9, 1903, nearl}' out of bloom.
Foliage quite glabrous throughout, leaves 12 x 45, sagittate, acute ; petioles 90-110 mm.
; scapes 100-140.
Fruiting plants, Tinicum, May 23, 1903.
No.
5,135, Herb., W. S. Leaves strongly auriculate-toothed at base, 80x20 mm., 40 mm.
across base, petioles 150 mm.
Cleistogcnes erect on peduncles 150 mm.
tall.
Specimens from near Haddonfield, New Jersey, June 27, 1903, No.
5,138, Herb., W. S., have leaves 100 mm.
long and 60 mm.
across the base; petioles 220 mm.
These plants are somewhat pubescent, notably on the margins of the leaves, and present some forms perplexingly like emarginata (PI.
XXXAT, fig.
iv).
Others, to all appearances sagittata in leaf, form, etc., from dry sandy hillisdes near Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, are quite pubescent on both blades and petioles as well as on the scapes.
These require further study.
.
25.
Viola emarginata Nutt.
(PI.
XXXVI, figs, iv-v; PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
ii.)
Viola emarginata Nuttall, 1818, Genera, I, p. 147.
Range.
— Southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey mainly east of the pine barrens, but quite across the Cape IMay peninsula.
Habitat.
— Low sandy ground or sandy woodland.
Description.
— Flowering plants, Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 25, 1903.
No.
5,141, Herb., W. S. Flowers 15 mm.
wide, blue, close to the color of the double cultivated species (between "campanula blue" and "mauve" of Ridgway), base white, lower and laterals with dark lines, beard spreading from the basal spots on to the blue area, lower petal and upper ones as well pubescent with scattered hairs; petals all rather broad and rounded, lower one almost cup-shaped and truncate, all distinctly emarginate; sepals lanceolateacute; scapes 60-80 mm.
Leaves thick, fleshy and glabrous, nearly triangular, crenate, with basal teeth slightly more prominent, decurrent, 15 X 25 mm.
; petiole glabrous, 40 mm.
Later specimens, May 9, have erect cleistogenes on peduncles 75 mm.
high.
Fruiting plants, Tinicum, June 21, 1903.
No.
5,143, Herb., W. S. Leaves 50 x 5 mm., strictly triangular, margin dentate-crenate, coarser toward the base, petioles 200 mm., peduncles of cleistogenes 120 mm.
high.
This seems to be the typical V. cmarginata.
Other colonies in Cape May county, New Jersey, have the summer leaves very broad across the base, with the teeth enlarged into deep lobes (PI.
XXXVI).
Still others in Chester county, Pennsylvania, in woodland, develop leaves 90x90 mm., much expanded and lobed at base; petioles 300 mrn.
long!
I have not had the opportunity of studying either of these last in flower, so cannot state whether their blossoms conform in color to the Tinicum plants.
The leaves of the Chester county specimens, while still thick and fleshy, are slightly but minutely pubescent.
The above descriptions will give some idea of the immense variability of the sagittata group, comprising numbers 22-25.
V. fimbriatula seems to be the nearest to the supposed parent or papilionacea type.
From it we pass to sagittata, of which emarginata seems to be an extreme development, with apparently a marked deviation in floral characters.
The resemblance in leaf-form between e7narginata and some aberrant hrittoniayia has already been commented upon.
Whether the apparent intergrades which serve to confuse the sagittata group are really such, or the extremes of a somewhat variable species, is a difficult matter to determine.
II.
Caulescent Species.
I.
— Flowers yellow.
a.
— Plants strongly pubescent, V. pubescens^ aa.
— Plants nearly glabrous, V. scahriuscula.
II.
— Flowers lilac-purple, V. muhlenhergii, III.
— Flowers white or cream-colored, V. striata, IV.
— Flowers white tinged with yellow and blue, stipules very large and laciniate, leaves small, mostly lanceolate, V .
rafinesquii.
The caulescent violets in the vicinity of Philadelphia are much less variable than the acaulescent forms, and the species are much more sharply defined.
The yellow-flowered group is the most generally distributed.
26.
Viola pubescens Ait.
Viola pubescens Alton, 1789, Hort.
Kewensis, III, p. 290.
Viola jyensylvanica Michaux, 1S0.3, Flor.
Bor.
Am., II, p. 149.
Viola pubescens eriocarpon Nuttall, 1818, Genera N. A., PI.
I, p. 150.
Range.
— Southeastern Pennsylvania northward to Pike and Monroe counties (Porter), but apparently not on the higher Alleghanies; in New Jersey throughout the northern counties south to Monmouth (Britton).
Habitat.
— Dry woodland.
Description.
— Flowering plant, Elwyn, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 27, 1902.
No.
2,583, Herb., W. S. Stem strongly pubescent, almost villous; stipules ovate, acuminate, nearly glabrous, except on the margin ; leaves strongly pubescent above and below, reniform, cucullate, dentate, 40 x 55 mm.
; petioles pubescent, 20-35 mm.
Flowers yellow, the lower and lateral petals lined with very dark purple, a small spot of pubescence near the base of the laterals, 15-18 mm.
broad; sepals linear-lanceolate; pedicels pubescent, 30-45 mm.
long.
These plants are about 150 mm.
high; about two-thirds up a large leaf branches off dichotomously with the upper part of the stem, usually with a long pediceled axillary flower; the upper part of the stem bears several partly grown leaves and one or two short-stalked flowers; there are no radical leaves.
Sometimes two stems rise from the same root, and one is often shorter than the other, bearing only one flower and two leaves.
Later fruiting plants are 300 mm.
high, with four reniform or nearly triangular leaves, successively smaller, and two or three axillary seedpods on successively shorter pedicels; pod 12 mm.
long, sometimes glabrous and sometimes pubescent; the stem is now nearly erect, making the first leaf entirely lateral.
There are often one or two reniform radical leaves on petioles 160 mm.
long.
687 A specimen from Willow Grove, Montgomery county, Pennsylvania, July 16, 1902, No.
3,319, Herb., W. S.,has developed branches at the summits of the fruiting pedicels, which have produced one or two smaller pods, apparently from cleistogamic flowers, and several small leaves, those on the lowest pedicel being orbicular, 20 mm.
in diameter.
It seems certain that Nuttall's var.
eriocarpon from Philadelphia is nothing more than an individual variation of this species.
The pubescence of the pods is variable and not corollated with any other characters.
27Viola scabriuscula Schw.
Viola scabriuscula Schweinitz, 1822, Am.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 75. i^ange.— Southeastern Pennsylvania to the highest mountains of Wyoming county, also northern New Jersey south to Trenton (Britton).
Habitat.
— Damp woods along streams.
Descrtp^ion.— Flowering plant, Crum creek, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 10, 1903, No.
5,162, Herb., W. S. Stem glabrous or nearly so, often recumbent ; leaves nearly glabrous, but with pubescence on the veins below, finely dentatc-crenate,reniform, 20 x 30 mm.
; stipules similar to puhescens; petiole (of first leaf) 30 mm., glabrous.
Flo\\er yellow, closely resembling the preceding species ; pedicel glabrous, 20 mm.
long.
Plants 90 mm.
in height.
The first leaf and its flower clearly overtop the rest of the upper stem in this species at this stage, and the flower of the latter seems to be frequently cleistogamic.
In puhescens the two flowers are about on a level and both flower at once.
There are always two or three radical, reniform, glabrous leaves on pedicels 30 mm.
long, and often several stems from one root.
Fruiting plants, Crum creek, May 17, 1903.
No.
5,164, Herb., W. S. Plants 350 mm.
tall, bearing three nearly triangular or slightly reniform leaves, coarsely dentate, crenate, 50 x 60 mm., with usually one seed-pod and a cleistogamic flower.
Pods 10 mm.
long, white, woolly or glabrous on contiguous plants.
There are usually several smaller radical leaves.
The pubescence of the pods seems to be purely an individual character, and is more variable than in V. puhescens.
Viola hastata occurs on the southern Alleghanies of Pennsylvania, north to Blair county, but not eastward.
28.
Viola striata Ait.
Viola striata Alton, 1789, Hortiis Kewensis, III, p. 290.
Viola ochroleuca Sclnveinitz, 1822, Am.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 69. ieonge.— Southeastern Pennsylvania, in the river valleys.
Very plentiful in the lower Susquehanna, also on the Brandy^vine at Chadd's Ford.
Near Philadelphia it occurs only at Bartram's Garden, where it is supposed to be native.
In New Jersey, south to Trenton (Britton).
Habitat.
— Low ground along streams.
Description.
— Flowering plants, Bartram's Garden, Philadelphia, May 13, 1901.
No.
1,083, Herb., W. S. Stem glabrous, several from one root, 150 mm.
high; stipules large laciniate, leaves cordate-ovate, crenate, 30x35 mm., glabrous; petioles 20 mm.
long, numerous smaller glabrous radical leaves.
Flowers creamy-white, 15-20 mm.
broad, lower and lateral petals lined with purplish-black, the formeiwell bearded near the base ; stipules linear-lanceolate ; pedicels 50-60 mm.
long.
Fruiting plants are 300 mm.
high, with leaves 40x40 mm., quite acutely pointed.
Some plants produce cleistogamic flowers in the upper axils.
29.
Viola muhlenbergii Torrey.
Viola canina various American authors inec European authors).
Viola uliginosa Muhlenberg, 1S13, Catalogue, p. 26 {nee Schrader).
Viola muhlenbergii Torrey, 1824, Flora U. S., p. 2.56.
Viola muhlenbergiana ("Gingins" D. C, 1821, Prodromus, I, p. 297.
Range.
— From the highest Alleghanies to Philadelphia; in New Jersey, northern counties south to Freehold, and casually in the lower Delaware valley to Salem (Britton).
Habitat.
— Damp woodland, or sometimes open ground.
Description.
— Flowering plant, Crum creek, Delaware county, Pennsylvania, April 10, 1903.
No.
5,165, Herb., W. S. Stems glabrous, somewhat reclining, 70 mm.
long, a number from the same root and with numerous radical leaves ; stipules with lacunate margins.
Leaves reniform or nearly orbicular, crenate, 15 x 15 mm., lower cauline 18 mm.
in length.
Flowers pale lilac-purple, lower petals lined with black, laterals slightly bearded; sepals linear-lanceolate.
The lowest flower is very long-pediceled (50 mm.)
and overtops the rest of the plant; there is usually one other true flower and often cleistogenes in the upper axils.
Fruiting plant, Crum creek, May 17, 1903.
No.
5,166, Herb., W. S. Stems 200 mm.
high, leaves 30 x 30 mm.
Usually two or three fruiting pedicels and a cleistogene on each stem, each shorter than the one below; radical leaves still persistent.
While this is evidently closely allied to V. labradorica Schrank., the fact that Prof. Greene has shown that there are several distinct forms of this species in the northeastern part of the country makes it desirable to retain the present name for our plant.
It is almost certainly distinct from the Labrador form, but probably may be regarded as a subspecies of it.
Viola rostrata Pursh is common in the Alleghanies and comes southward to Bucks county.
Muhlenberg's name is unrecognizable until clearly defined by Pursh; his specimens, however, show that both writers had the same plant in view.
Viola canadensis Linn, is also abundant in our mountains, and there is a specimen in the Academy herbarium marked Sellersville, Bucks county, the farthest south that I have heard of its occurrence.
30.
Viola rafinesquii Greene.
"Viola hicolor" and '' arvensis" of several American authors (nee European authors).
VioJa tenella Muhlenberg, 1813, Catalogue, p. 26 (nee Poiret, ISIO).
Viola rafinesquii Greene, 1S99, Pittonia, IV, p. 9.
Range.
— Along the Susquehanna and Delaware rivers, and abundant at various localities in southern New Jersey outside the pine barrens.
Habitat.
— Low sandy ground.
Description.
— Flowering plants, Nottingham, Chester county, Pennsylvania, near Octoraro creek.
May 6, 1902.
Benjamin H. Smith.
No.
5,171, Herb., W. S. Stems glabrous, 100-150 mm.
high, often branching close to the base; stipules conspicuous, deeplj' cut, lobed; leaves 20 mm., linear-lanceolate or spatulate, the lower nearly orbicular (10 X 10 mm.
), contracted into margined petioles, 8-10 mm.
in length, obscurely toothed, glabrous.
Flowers several in the upper axils on pedicels 25 mm.
long, yellowish with a blue tinge, lower petal lined with black, 15-18 mm.
wide, sepals rather broadly lanceolateacute.
Plants in full fruit May 30, same size as above.
No further growth takes place, and the plants soon wither up.
Nomenclature and Synonymy.
Difficult as it is to determine tlic number of distinct forms that exist among our violets, it is a still harder prol)lem to ascertain what names they should be known by.
Some 160 specific or varietal names have been proposed for violets of eastern North America, and as many of these are very meagrely descri])cd, it is well-nigh impossible to be sure what forms the authors had in hand.
In the preceding pages I have entered in the synonymy only such names as seem without reasonalolc doul)t to refer to the speci(>s in question, and have discussed matters of nomenclature only so far as absolutely essential to the determination of the proper name to use in each case.
In order, however, to satisfactoril.y cover the synonym}of the genus, I have prepared a list of the names known to me which have been applied to eastern North American violets — both specific and 44 subspecific — with some comment upon their status, the type locaUty and the group to which the name belongs, viz., "A.B."
= Acaulcscent blue; ,"C.Y."
= Caulescent yellow, etc.
IVIany species recently described by Prof. Greene and Mr. Pollard are" listed here which do not occur in the region that I have studied, and I am quite unprepared to discuss their relationship.
In order, however, that some idea of their affinities may be obtained, I have given the names of the better known species with which they are compared in the original descriptions.
I have likewise noted in brackets the reference to the Illustrated Flora of Britton and Brown for all species recognized in that work.
Additional species recognized in Britton's Manual have references to that work, and still others which are recognized in the preceding pages are marked accordingly.
The principal works and papers in which North American species are described or in which the genus is reviewed arc : LiNN.EUs, 1753.
Species Plantarum.
Walter, 1788.
Flora Carolina.
AiTON, 1789, in Hortus Kewensis.
MiCHAUX, 1803.
Flora Boreali-Americana.
WiLLDENOw, 1806.
Hortus Beroliensis.
Muhlenberg, 1813.
Catalogue.
PuRSH, 1814.
Flora Americana Septentrionale.
Smith, 1817, in Rees' Cyclopaedia.
Elliot, 1817.
Botany of South Carolina and Georgia, NuTTALL, 1818.
Genera of N. A.
Plants.
ScHWEiNiTZ, 1822, in American Journal of Science.
V. DeCandolle, 1824.
Prodromus, I.
Le Conte, 1828.
Annals Lyceum N. Y., II.
Don, 1831.
General System.
Gray, 1886.
Botanical Gazette, XI, pp.
253-256 and 289-293.
Pollard.
1896.
Proc.
Biological Soc.
Wash., X, pp.
85-92.
Pollard, 1898.
Botanical Gazette, XXYI, pp.
325-342.
Pollard, 1901, in Britton's Manual.
Greene, 1896-1903.
Various articles in Pittonia.
acuta " Bigclow" Torrey.
1824.
Flora U. S., I, p. 253.
(A.W.)
Proposed as a variety of and allied to lanceolata, if not identical.
Cambridge, Mass.
afjinis Le Conte.
1828.
Ann.
Lye.
N. Y., U, p. 138.
[Britt.
Manual, No.
9.]
(A.B.)
alahatnensis Pollard.
1900.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., p. 169.
(A.B.)
Allied to villosa and Carolina.
alba Thurber?
(A.B.)
A mere white form of pedata, of which it is styled a variety.
albiflora Don.
1831.
Gen.
Syst., I, p. 320.
(A.B.)
A mere white form of septemloba Le Conte.
albiflora Don.
1831.
Gen.
Syst., I, p. 321.
(A.B.)
A similar variant of " hetcrophylla ]Muhl."
Other albinos have also been so named.
alleghaniensis Roem and Schult.
Syst., 5, p. 5G0.
( ) Quoted by DeCandolle.
I have been unable to verify it.
alsophila Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 7.
(A.W.)
New name for amcena Le C. See leconteana Don.
amoena Le Conte.
1828.
Ann.
Lye.
N. Y., II, p. 144.
(A.W.)
Antedated by ama;na Symons, 1798, Syn.
PI.
Brit., p. 198.
See leconteana.
amorphophylla Pollard.
1900.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., p. 129.
(A.B.)
Related to sagittata.
Tiyon, N. Carolina.
angellce Pollard.
1902.
Torreya, II, ^No.
2, p. 24.
[antea, p.
678.]
(A.B.)
Orange, New Jersey.
arenaria D. C. 1805.
Flor.
France, IV, p. 806.
[111.
Flor., 2,508.]
(C.B.)
A European species credited to North America.
arvensis.
(C.B.)
A European species found also in North America.
asari/oZw Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 26.
(C.B.)
Not recognizable [specimens = mw/i.Zen6ergru].
asarifolia Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Amer.
Sept.
Suppl., p. 732.
(A.B.)
Antedated by asarifolia Muhl., 1813.
Virginia to Carolina.
atlantica Britton.
1897.
Bull.
Torrey Bot.
Club., XXIV, p. 92.
(A.B.)
Antedated by atlantica Pomel, 1874.
See brittoniana Pollard.
East ]\Iassachusetts to south New Jersev.
a^rapt«7Jurm"Raf."D.C.
1824.
Prodr., I, p. 291.
(A.B.)
Proposed as a variety of pedata, and a pure synonym of true pedata.
a«e?umto "Sweet" Don.
1831.
Gen.
Syst., I, p. 322.
(A.W.)
Proposed for lanceolata Pursh, which he regards as different from lanceolata linn.
The name does not occur in Sweet Hort.
Brit., 1826, p. 37, to which reference is made.
australis Pollard.
1898.
Bot.
Gazette, XXVI, p. 342.
(A.W.)
Proposed as a race of primidcefolia.
Duval county, Florida.
barbata Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 26.
(A.B.)
Unrecognizable.
barbata ''Willd."
D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 292. , (A.B.)
Nomen nudum in svnonymy vmder papilionacea.
belvisiana D. C. 1824.
Prodr.^ I, p. 294.
(A.B.)
As a race of ovata "in mont.
cditioribus Virginia'."
bernardi Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 260.
[Britt.
Manual, No.
4.]
(A.B.)
As a race of pcdatifida, southern Wisconsin.
bicolor Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Amor.
Sept., I, p. 175.
(C.W.
or B.)
Antedated by bicolor Hoffman.
Fl.
Germ., II.
p. 170, which Pursh probably intended to quote.
bicolor "Pursh," Raf., D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 291.
(A.B.)
As synonym under pedata atropurpurca Raf.
nomoi nudum .
blanda Willdenow.
1806.
Hort.
Berolien, PI.
XXI\'.
[111.
Flor., 2,497.]
(A.W.)
boscii D. C. 1S24.
Prodr., I, p. 293.
(A.W.)
As a race of primidce folia, and apparently identical with it.
Carolina.
brainerdii Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 89.
(A.W.)
=" Specimens No.
17, Distribution N. A.
Molcts."
Vermont.
brittoniana Pollard.
1898.
Bot.
Gazette, XXVI, p. 332.
[111.
Flor., 2,485.]
(A.B.)
New name for atlantica Britton.
canadensis Linn.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., pi.
936.
[111.
Flor., 2.505.]
(C. W.) Canada.
canina.
(C.B.)
A European species credited to North America.
cardminefolia Greene, 1901.
Pittonia, IV, p. 289.
(C.B.)
Allied to muhlenherqii.
Aylmer, Quebec.
Carolina Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 259.
(A.B.)
Allied to fimbriatula.
Wilmington, North Carolina.
ciliata Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., 26.
(A.B.)
Not recognizable [his specimens = riUosa].
clandestina Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Amer.
Sept..
I, p. 173.
(A.Y.)
Apparently = rotundijolia.
communis Pollard.
1898.
Bot.
Gazette, XNA'I, p. 336.
(A.B.)
New name for " obliqua''' and '' cucullata" of many recent authors, which are not this form, but not communis Wittrock; cf.
Greene, Pittonia, IV, p. 140.
Apparently = papilionacea Pursh.
congener Le Conte.
1828.
Ann.
Lye.
N. Y., II, p. 140.
(A.B.)
=Form of polmata (cf.
Greene, Pittonia, III, p. 142).
ronjugens Greene, 1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 3.
[Britton's Manual, " No.
21.]
(A.B.)
Allied to emarginata and cucullata.
Anne Arundel county, Maryland.
consors Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 100.
(A.B.)
Close to cucullata.
Prince Edward's Island.
cordata Walter.
1788.
Flor.
Carol., p. 219.
(A.B.)
Not recognizable.
cordata D.C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 293.
(A.W.)
As a race of primida folia, cordifolia Nuttall.
1818.
Gen., I, p. 148.
[antca, p.
674.]
(A.B.-) =Race of viUosa Walter.
Philadelphia.
cordlformis D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 292.
(A.B.)
As a race of cucullata.
Not distinguishable.
crassula Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 96.
(A.B.)
Allied to crcnulata.
Jackson, ^lichigan.
crenulata Greene.
1901.
Pittonia, IV, p. 295.
[antco.
p.
674.]
(A.B.)
Syracuse, New York.
cucullata Alton.
1789.
Hort.
Kew., Ill, p. 288.
[111.
Flor., 2.4876.]
(A.B.)
N. A.
(from Dr. Samuel Martin) .
cuspidata Greene, 1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 314.
[Britt.
Manual, No.
8.]
(A.B.)
Allied to papilionacea.
Wisconsin.
debilis Michaux.
1803.
Flor.
Bor.
Amer., II, p. 150.
(C.B.)
Probably = s/n'ato.
"In mont.
Alleghanis."
dentata Pursh.
1814.
Fl.
Am.
Sept., I, p. 172.
(A.B.)
sagitfata group, identity doubtful.
Pennsylvania.
denticulosa Pollard.
foOl.
Bull.
Torrey Bot.
Club, XXMII.
p. 475.
(A.W.)
Allied to lanceolata.
Douglas, Coffee county, Georgia.
dicksonii Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 65.
(A.B.)
Allied to cuspidata.
Canadian woods.
digitata Pursh.
1814.
• Fl.
Amer.
Sept., I, p. 171.
(A.B.)
palmata group, identity doubtful.
Virginia.
digitata Darlington.
1826.
Florula Cestrica, p. 29.
(A.B.)
Apparently intended for digitata Pursh.
West Chester, Pennsylvania.
dilatata Elhott.
1817.
Bot.
S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300.
[Britt.
Manual, la.]
(A.B.)
As a race of palmata.
Upper districts Georgia and Carolina.
domestica Bicknell.
1898.
In Britt.
and Brown, 111.
Flora, III, p. 519.
(A.B.)
Rich grovnid form of papilionacea.
South Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
eleganttda Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, lY, p. 66.
(A.B.)
" Foliage of hlanda, flowers of cucullata."
Ottawa, Canada.
emarginata Nuttall."
1818.
Gen., I, p. 147.
[111.
Flor., app.
2,490a.]
(A.B.)
Philadelphia and adjacent New Jersey.
eriocarpon Nuttall.
1818.
Gen., I, p. 150.
(C.Y.)
As a race of puhescens, from wdiich it cannot l)c separated.
Philadelphia.
esculenta EUiot.
1817.
Bot.
S. C. and Ga., I, p. 300.
(A.B.)
Given as a synonym under ^' heferophylla ^Muhl.," which is fully described.
Ogeechee river.
euryhicefolia Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 25.
(C.W.)
"Provisional" name for southern race of V. canadensis L., on the assumption that Linnseus had the northern form.
Sullivan county, New York.
falcata Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 3.
[Britt.
^Manual, No.
6.]
(A.B.)
palmata group.
Cobden, Illinois.
fimhriatula Smith.
1817.
Rees' Cyclop., XXXVIII.
[ = 111.
Flor., '■ 2,491.]
' (A.B.)
A new name for primuhefolia Pursh (jiec Linn.).
flahellifolia Loddiger.
Botan.
Cab.. 777.
(A.B.)
Quoted by Don, 1831.
Apparently another name for T^.
pedata bicolor Pursh, though I have been unable to refer to it.
fletcheri Greene.
1901.
Pittonia, lY, p. 296.
(A.B.)
Allied to papilionacea.
Ottawa, (Jntario.
fragrans Elliot.
1817.
Bot.
of S. C. and Ga.
(A.B.)
As a variety of palmata.
Near Savannah, Georgia.
gibbosa "Raf."
D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 305.
(C.Y.)
Possibly identical with scabriuscida.
Alleghany ]\Iountains.
glaberrima D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 292.
(A.B.)
Proposed as a variety of cucullata Ell., and intended as a new name for cucidlata Ait., which is considered subspecifically different.
glaberrima Don.
1831.
Gen.
Synop., I, p. 329.
(C.Y.)
As a variety of hastata, antedated b}^ preceding.
hastata Michaux.
1803.
Flor.
Bor.
Amer., II, p. 149.
[111.
Flor., 2,.502.]
(C.V.) High mountains of Carolina.
heterophylla Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 25.
(A.B.)
Antedated by heterophylla Poiret and heterophylla Bertol.
hicksii Pollard.
1895.
Botan.
Gazette, XX, p. 326.
(A.B.)
As a race of sagittata, and afterward referred to ovata as a subspecies.
Rock Creek Park, District of Columbia.
hispidida D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 292.
(A.B.)
Proposed as a race of cucidlata, not recognizable.
illinoiensis Greene.
1901.
Pittonia, IV, p. 293.
(A.B.)
Somewhat allied to afjinis.
Monticello, Illinois.
inornata Greene.
1896.
Pittonia, III, p. 35.
(A,B.)
New name for "V. pedata Curtis, Bot.
Mag., t. 89," fiec pedata Pinn., which is the bicolored form.
See lineariloba.
insignis Pollard.
1898.
Bot.
Gazette, XXVI.
p. 334.
(A.B.)
Jacksonville, Florida.
Name antedated b}' insignis Richter, 1888. labradorica Schrank.
1818.
Denksch.
bot.
Gesell.
Regensb., II, p. 12.
(C.B.)
I have not been able to cons\dt this reference.
The plant is probably distinct from 7nuhlenbergii.
Icetecceridea Greene.
1901.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., p. 70.
(A.B.)
Allied to papilionacea.
Potomac Flats, District of Columbia.
lanceolata Linn.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., pi.
953.
[111.
Flor., 2.500.]
(A.W.)
"Canada."
latiuscula Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, \ , p. 93.
(A.B.)
Allied to afflnis.
Twin Mountain, West Rutland.
Vermont.
leconteana Don.
1831.
Gen.
Syst., I, p. 324.
[ = 111.
Flor., var.
amo?/^a, under 2,497.]
(A.W.)
New name for amoena Le Conte.
leptosepala Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 98.
[antea.
p.
674.]
(A.B.)
A race of cucullata.
Oakland, Maryland.
lewisiana " G'mgms" Bon.
1824.
Prodr., I, p. 298.
(C.W.)
New name for repens Schw.
lineariloha D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 291.
[antea, p.
681.]
(A.B.)
Proposed as a variety of pedata, and based on PL 89 of Curtis Bot.
Mag.
macounii Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 335.
(A.B.)
''Very different from all other N. A.
species."
Ottawa and Quebec.
macrotis Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 97.
[antea, p.
673.]
(A.B.)
A race of cucullata.
Surrallsville, Maryland, and Berlin, New Jersey.
melissa^folia Greene.
1903.
Pittonia, V, p. 103.
(A.B.)
"Allied to nesiotica.''
Prince Edward's Island.
mistassinica Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 5.
(A.W.)
One of blanda group.
Labrador.
muhlenbergii Torrey.
1824.
Flor.
U. S., I, p. 256.
[111.
Flor., 2,507.]
(C.B.)
New name for idiginosa Muhl.
{nee Schrader) and debihs Schw.
{nee Michx.).
Cedar swamp, New Durham, New Jersey.
muhlenbergiana "Gingins" B.C.
1824.
Prodr., I, p. 297.
(C.B.)
New name for uliginosa Muhl.
{nee Schrader).
Pennsylvania.
Possibly antedates the preceding.
midfordcB Pollard.
1902.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., p. 203.
(A.B.)
Allied to brittoniana.
Hempstead Plains, Long Island.
multicaulis Torrey and Gray.
1838.
Flora, I, p. 140.
[111.
Flor., 2,509.]
(C.B.)
Allied to muhlenbergii.
multifida Mill.
1768.
Diet., 8 ed.
(A.B.)
=pedata Linn., vid Greene, Pittonia, III, p. 35. ncpetoBJolia Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 93.
(A.B.)
Allied to affinis.
Some of No.
20 Dist.
of N. A. violets are this.
Washington, District of Columbia.
nesiotica Greene, 1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 102.
(A.B.)
" Closely allied to subviscosa."
Prince Edward's Island.
nodosa Greene.
1901.
Pittonia, IV, p. 296.
(A.B.)
Related to euspidata.
Syracuse, New York.
m(«a//n Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Amer.
Sept., I, p. 174.
[111.
Flor., 2,501.]
(C.Y.)
Missouri river.
nuttallii Don.
1831.
Gen.
Syst., I, p. 324.
(A.B.)
Proposed as a variety of sororia, and intended as a new name for V. villosa cordifolia Nutt., antedated by nuttallii Pursh, 1814. obligua Hill.
1769.
Hort.
Kew., p. 316, t. 12.
(A.B.)
Not identifiable.
ochroleuca Schweinitz.
1822.
Amer.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 69.
(C.W.)
= striata Alton.
Dan river toward Saura Mountains.
odorata Linnseus.
1753.
Sp.
Plan., pi.
934.
[111.
Flor., 2,493.]
(A.B.)
A European species introduced into North America.
ovata Niittall.
1818.
Gen., I, p. 148.
(A.B.)
A new name for pi-imuhefolia Pursli {nee liinn.).
Philadelphia.
ovata "Rat" ~D.C.
1824.
Prodr., I, p. 293.
(A.W.)
Proposed as a race of primulafolia.
Pennsylvania.
-pallcns D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 295.
(A.Y.?)
Proposed as a race of roiimdi folia, unrecognizable.
Labrador.
palmata Linnaeus.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., pi.
933.
[111.
Flor., 2,484.]
(A.B.)
Virginia.
palustriformis Gray.
1886.
Botan.
Gazette, XI, p. 255.
(A.W.)
Allied to blanda.
palustris Linnaeus.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., pi.
934.
[111.
Flor., 2,495.]
(A.B.)
A European species attributed to America.
papilionacea Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Am.
Sept., I, p. 173.
[111.
Flor., 2,487.]
(A.B.)
Philadelphia.
pedata Linnaus.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., p. 933.
[111.
Flor., 2,492.]
(A.B.)
Virginia.
pedatifida Don.
"l831.
Gen. Syst..
I, p. 320.
[111.
Flor., 2,486.]
(A.B.)
North America.
pensylvanica Michaux.
1803.
Flor.
Bor.
Amer., II, p. 149.
(C.Y.)
=pubcscens Ait.
Schuylkill river, Pennsylvania.
pensylvanica D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 294.
(A.B.)
As a race of palustris, unrecognizable.
populifolia Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 337.
(A.B.)
Allied to cuspidata.
Pt.
Flamboro, Ontario.
porteriana Pollard.
1897.
Bull.
Torrey Bot.
Club, XXIV, p. 404.
[ = Britt.
Manual, No.
19.]
(A.B.)
A member of the sagiftata group.
Bushkill Falls, Pennsylvania.
praiincola Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 65.
[Britt.
Manual, No.
11.]
(A.B.)
Allied to papilionacea.
Windom, Minnesota.
primulafolia Linn.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., pi.
934.
[111.
Flor., 2,499.]
(A.W.)
Siberia and Virginia.
prinndccfolia Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Am.
Sept., I, p. 173.
(A.B.)
=fimb7'iatula Smith.
priosepala Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 99.
(A.B.)
A race of cucullata.
Vermont and Quebec.
puherula S. Watson.
1890.
Gray's Manual (ed.
VI), p. 81.
(C.B.)
As a race of tnuhlenhergii.
Lakes Huron and Superior.
puhescens Alton.
1789.
Hort.
Kew., Ill, p. 290.
[111.
Flor., 2,503.]
(C.Y.)
N. A.
(from William Young).
punctata Schw.
1822.
Am.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 67.
(C.B.)
Probably = lahradorica Schrank.
Labrador.
pygmcEci "Donn" Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., j).
26.
(A.W.?)
Linrecognizable.
radicans D. C. 1824. "
Prodr., I, p. 297.
(C.W.)
Possibly = muhlenhergii or striata.
South Carolina.
rafinesquii Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 9.
[111.
Flor., 2,512.]
(C.W.
and B.)
New name for V. tenella Miihl., which is a nomen nudum, and is antedated by V. tenella Poiret, 1810. ranunculifolia "Gingins" D. C. 1824.
Prodr., I, p. 291.
(A.B.)
Proposed as a variety of pedata, but unrecognizable^; reference is also made: ''ranunculifolia Poir.!
diet.
8, p.
626?"
renifolia Gray.
1870.
Proc.
Amer.
Acad., VIII, p. 288.
[111.
Flor., 2,498.]
(A.W.)
East Elba, New York.
repens Schweinitz.
1822.
Amer.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 70.
(C W.) AUied to striata.
Rocks of Saura Mountains.
rostrata Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 26.
[111.
Flor., 2,510.]
(C.B.)
Unrecognizable, until described by Pursh, 1814, I lor.
Am.
Sept., I, p. 174.
Easttown [ = Easton], Pennsylvania.
rotundifolia Michaux.
1803.
Flor.
Bor.
Amer., II, p. 150.
[111.
Flor., 2,494.]
(A Y.)
High Mountains, Carolina.
sagittata Alton.
1789.
Hort.
Kew., Ill, p. 287.
[111.
Flor., 2,490.]
(A.B.)
Pennsylvania (from Dr. John Fothergill).
sagittata Pursh.
1814.
Flor.
Am.
Sept., I, p. 172.
(A.B.)
Antedated by the above and probably = fimhriatula.
scabriuscula Schweinitz.
1822.
Amer.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 75.
[111.
Flor., 2,504.]
(C.Y.)
Salem, North Carolina.
selkirkii " Pursh," Goldie.
1822.
Edinb.
Phil.
Mag., VI, p. 324.
[111.
Flor., 2,496.]
(A B ) Mountains about Montreal.
septemloha LeConte.
1828.
Ann.
Lye.
N. Y., II, p. 141.
[antea, p.
678.]
(A B.)
Pine woods, CaroUna and Georgia.
septentrionalis Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 334.
[Britt.
Manual, 14.]
(A.B.)
Alhed to cuspidata.
Ottawa, sorona Willdenow.
1806.
Hort.
BeroL, PI.
LXXII.
(A.B.)
Application somewhat doubtful pYoh&h\y = dilatata.
North America.
striata Alton.
1789.
Hort.
Kew., Ill, p. 290.
[111.
Flor., 2,506.]
(C.W.)
N. A.
(from William Young).
striata Schweinitz.
1822.
Am.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. 76.
(C.Y.)
Allied to hastata, but name antedated by the last.
striata Willis.
1874.
Catalogue Plants of N. J.
(A.B.)
As a race of cucuUata, from which it does not seem separable.
subsagittata Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 315.
(A.B.)
Allied to sagittata.
West of Lake Michigan.
suhsinuata Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 313.
(A.B.)
As a race of emarginata.
Mountains, East Tennessee.
suhvestita Greene.
1897.
Erythrea, VI, p. 39. subviscosa Greene.
1901.
Pittonia, IV, p. 293.
(A.B.)
Allied to septentrionalis.
Prince Edward's Island.
tenella Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 26.
(C.B.
and W.) Nomcn nudum and antedated by tenella Poiret, 1810, in Lam.
diet., n. 53 = rafinesquii.
tenuipes Pollard.
1902.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., p. 201.
(C.Y.)
Allied to hastata.
Chattahoochee, Florida.
thompsoncc Chapman.
1897.
Flor.
So.
States (Ed.
III).
(A.B.)
=odorato Linn.
tricolor Linnaus.
1753.
Sp.
Plant., pi.
935.
[111.
Flor., 2.511.]
(C.B.)
A European species, introduced.
triloba Schweinitz.
1822.
Am.
Jour.
Sci.. V. p. 57.
(A.B.)
Proh&hly = dilatota.
tripartita Elliot.
1817.
Bot.
S. Car.
and Ga., I, p. 302.
(C.Y.)
A race of hastata.
Athens, Georgia.
uliginosa Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 26.
(C.B.)
As synonym under asarifolia, antedated by uliginosa Schrad.
w^uZa Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 67.
[Britt.
Manual, No.
16.]
(A.B.)
Allied to venusttda and cucuUata .
Ottawa.
variabilis Greene.
1902.
Pittonia, V, p. 91.
(A.B.)
Harper's Ferry, Virginia.
variegata "Donn" Muhlenberg.
1813.
Cat., p. 26.
(A.B.?)
Unrecognizable.
velutina Schweinitz.
1822.
Amer.
Jour.
Sci., V, p. So quoted by some authors, but not to be found in Schweinitz's paper.
venustula Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 335.
[Britt.
Manual, 15.]
(A.B.)
Allied to ciicullata.
Ottawa.
vicinalis Greene.
1899.
Pittonia, IV, p. 9.
(A.B.)
New name for insignis Pollard (ncc Richter, 1888).
viarum Pollard.
1901.
Britton's Manual, p. 635, No.
5.
(A.B.)
Alhed to hcrnardi.
Valley Park, Missouri.
villosa Walter.
1788.
Flor.
Carol., p.''219.
[111.
Flor., 2,488.]
(A.B.)
More fully described by ElHot.
1817.
South Carolina.
vittata Greene.
1898.
Pittonia, III, p. 258.
(A.W.)
A southern ally of lanceolata.
Florida.
vulgaris Elliot.
1817.
Bot.
S. Car.
and Ga., I, p. 300.
(A.B.)
As a yariety of palmata.
watsoni Greene.
1899. '
Pittonia.
IV, p. 5.
(A.W.)
(Jnc of the blanda group.
Prince Edward's Island.
Explanation of Plates XXXI-XXXIX.^ Plate XXXI, Fig.
i.
— Viola villosa cordifolia.
— a.
Three leaves from early flowering plants, b.
Leaf from older plant, c. Two leaves from fruiting plants.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola affinis.
— a.
Three leaves from early flowering plants, b.
Two older leaves, c. Two leaves from fruiting plants.
Plate XXXII, Fig.
i.
— Viola papUionacea.
— a.
Two early leaves, b.
Two later leaves, c. Two leaves from fruiting plant.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola cucullata.
— a.
Two early leaves, b.
Later leaf.
c. Leaf from plant in fruit.
Fig.
iii.
— Viola crenulata.
— a.
Three leaves from flowering plant, b.
Leaf from fruiting plant.
Plate XXXIII.
— Viola palmala dilatata.
— 1-2.
Early leaves.
3-7.
Older leaves from flowering plants.
8-13.
From fruiting plants.
Plate XXXIV, Fig.
i.
— Viola pal mata.
— a.
Early leaf.
b.
Later leaf .
c. From fruiting plant, d. Late summer leaf.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola palmata angelhe.
— a.
Early leaf.
b.
Three leaves from fruiting plant.
Plate XXXV, Fig.
i.
— Viola briUoniana.
— a.
Three early leaves, b.
Two older leaves, c. Two leaves from fruiting plant.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola septernloba.
— a.
Three early leaves, b.
Older leaf.
c. Two leaves from plant in fruit.
Pl.-s-TE XXXVI, Fig.
i.
— Viola sagittata, Tinicum.
Delaware county, Pennsylvania.
— a.
Three early leaves, b.
Two later leaves, c. Three leaves from plants in fruit.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola mgittata, broader-leaved plant, Tinicum, Delaware county, Pennsylvania.
— a.
Early leaf.
b.
From fruiting plant.
Fig.
iii.
— Viola saqiUata (approaching emarginata?)
, Haddonfield, New Jersey.
— a.
Early leaf.
b.
From fruiting plant.
Fig.
iv.
— Viola emarginata.
— a.
Three early leaves, b.
Two leaves from fruiting plants.
Fig.
V. — ['iola emarginata.
— Four leaves from late summer plants.
Plate XXXVII, Fig.
i.
— Viola fimbriatula.
— a.
Two early leaves, b.
Three older leaves, c. Leaf from fruiting plant.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola fimbriatula.
— From fruiting plant.
Fig.
iii.
— ^'iola fimbriatula.
— Exceptionally long petioled slender leaf.
Fig.
iv.
— Viola fimbriatula annectens.
— a.
Early leaf b. Fruiting leaf.
Fig.
V. — Viola fimbriatula annectens.
— From fruiting plant.
Fig.
vi.
— Viola fimbriatula annectens?.
— Early leaf.
Plate XXXVIII, Fig.
i.
— Viola sagittata.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola emarginata.
Fig.
iii.
— Viola papUionacea.
Fig.
iv.
— Viola cucullata.
Fig.
V. — Viola fimbriatula.
Plate XXXIX, Fig.
i.
— Viola palmata.
Fig.
ii.
— Viola briftoniana.
Fig.
iii.
— Viola septernloba.
Figs, iv and v. — Viola palmata dilatata.
^ The drawings represent leaves that have been pressed flat, and no attempt has been made to denote cucullation.
700 proceedings of the academy of [oct., October 20.
The President, Samuel G. Dixox, ^I.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-three jDersons present.
Inclusions in Quartz.
— ^Ir.
Hugo Bilgram remarked that on examining a section of the " Bkie Quartz " of Bucks county, Pennsylvania, he had observed some very interesting inchisions.
This quartz contains small crystals of a l)luish tint, exceedingly small needle-shaped crystals, some apparently opaque, and larger and smaller amorphous black masses distributed in irregular groups, mostly in sheets throughout the rock, probably consisting of graphite.
There are also numerous small cavities filled with liquid, probably water, containing small bubbles.
A few of these latter cavities were found to contain small, loose particles which, in connection with the enclosed bubbles, exhibit the phenomenon known as the Brownian movements.
Some are prismatic crystals or fragments, others opaque ]5articles of irregular shape.
These inclusions clearly demonstrate that the Brownian movements continue indefinitely, the gneiss beds from which the blue quartz originates belonging to the oldest geologic formations.
Some of the cavities contain a number of such crystals.
Owing to the constant movement it was difficult to count them with certainty, but he had counted no less than five or six particles in several cavities.
These inclusions of suspended particles seem to be very rare, as he had examined hundreds of splinters and had succeeded in finding only a few exhibiting these phenomena.
They seemed to be grouped.
If one cavity containing a loose crystal is found in a section, it is likely that more can be discoverd by a close examination.
The first section in which he discovered them contains at least twenty such cavities.
The dimensions of the particles are exceedingly small.
One of the largest prismatic crystals found is about 6 micro-millimeters long and about ^ micro-millimeter thick.
Others are too small for even approximate measurement.
Mr. Frank J. Keeley stated that he had succeeded in showing that these crystals have double-refractive qualities.
By placing the section between two Nichol's prisms, so as to obtain a dark field, a careful observation will reveal that these crystals occasionally light up as their optic axis happens to become practically paralleled with the line of sight.
They look very much like fireflies.
Messrs. Theodore Brooks, Allen J. Smith, Frederick L. Lewton, Thomas Barbour and Edward G. Yanatta were elected members.
The following were accepted for publication : 701 STUDIES IN OLD WORLD MANTID^ (ORTHOPTERA).
BY JA:MES A. G. REHN.
The material forming the base of the present paper is ahiiost entirely contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the United States National Museum.
The author is indebted to Dr. W. H. Ashmead of the latter institution, for the privilege of examining the material under his charge.
Subfamily Orthoderinse.
Genus EREMIAPHILA Lefebvre.
1835.
Eremiaphila Lefebvre, Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France, IV, p. 468.
Type.— By selection E. luxor Lefebvre.^ EremiapMla bove Lefebvre.
1835.
Eremiaphila bove Lefebvre, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, IV, p. 492.
[Desert of Suez.]
Two immature specimens; Egypt.^ (Dr. H. C.
Wood.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
These appear to be the only specimens in existence except the types.
Eremiaphila sabulosa Saussure.
1871.
E{remiaphila] sabulosa Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologiques, Suppl., Ili fasc, p. 387.
[Isthmus of Suez.]
One immature specimen; Egypt.
(Dr. H. C.
Wood.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This species has apparently not been recorded since the ongmal description.
Genus THEOPOMPA Stal.
1877 Theopompa Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, Band 4, No.
10, pp.
22, 47.
Included ophthalmica (Olivier) and servillci (Haan), of which the latter can be considered the type.
1 Of the originally included species (audouin, cerisij, gene, zetterstedt, luxor, bove, saviqny, khamsin, kralil, kheych, typhon, petit, hebraica ancl anuhis), luxor possesses the best figure, and for that reason I have selected it as the type.
2 Dr Wood has very kindly given me the followmg mtormation regarding the specimens in the Academy's collection presented by him, and simp y labelled "EevDt"Mv Egyptian collections were made in three places— at Heiowan ancl at the Menai" House in the desert, seven or eight miles from Cairo; at Assouan (at the Fir'^t Cataract on the Nile) : and probably some at Luxor on the Nile.
Theopompa servillei (Haan).
1842.
Mantis servillei Haan, Vcrhand.
Natuurl.
Gesch.
Neder.
overz.
bezitt., p. 81, tab.
16, figs.
5-6.
[Lewibonger, Java, 300 feet elevation.]
One female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N.M.] Genus CHIROPUS Saussure.
1809.
Chiropus Saussure, Bull.
Soc.
Entom.
Suisse, III, pp.
51, 61.
Type.
— Chiropus dives Saussure.
Chiropus insidiator (Wood-Mason).
1882.
Tarachodes insidiator Wood-Mason, Journ.
Asiat.
Soc.
Bengal, LI, Pt.
2, p. 22.
[Nyassa, East Africa.]
Two somewhat immature females; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This species has been recorded from Barberton in the Transvaal, Nyassaland, Voi in British East Africa and Somaliland.
Genus PYRGrOMANTIS Gerstaecker.
1869.
Pyrgomantis Gerstaecker, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, XXXV, Band I, p. 210.
Type.— P. singidaris Gerstaecker.
Pyrgomantis singularis Gerstaecker.
1869.
Pyrgomantis singularis Gerstaecker, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, XXXV, Band I, p. 211.
[Between Mombasa and Wanga, East Africa.]
Three immature males; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This species has been recorded from Pretoria, Transvaal, Natal and Zululand.
Subfamily Mantinse.
Genus IRIDOPTERYX Saussure.
1869.
Iridopteryx Saussure, Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Suisse, III, pp.
55, 63.
Included species, /.
iridipcnnis and glauca, the former l^eing the type, as the latter was later removed to Micromantis by Saussure.
Iridopteryx infumata Saussure.
1872.
G[onypeta^ {Iridopteryx) infumata Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologiques, IV.
p. 30.
["L'Egypte (suivant I'etiquette; mais pourrait etre des Indes?)"]
Two specimens, male and female; Trong, Lower Siam; JanuaryFebruary, 1899.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] Genus AMELES Burmeister.
1S3S.
Ameles Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., II, p. 531.
Included nana, minima, aiirantiaca and flaviciricta.
The first of these was removed to Parameles, and of the remaining three minima may be selected as the type.
Ameles malaccana n. sp.
Type: 9; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[Cat.
No.
6,955, U. S. N. M.] This species is probably related to A. abjeda Cyrillo { = spallanzania Rossi et auct.)
and A. decolor Charpentier of southern Europe.
While quite distinct from either of these forms, no satisfactory comparison can be made without good figures or accurate descriptions, and as the existing ones are based chiefly on the males, no comparative diagnostic characters can be given.
The central Asian A. alata Saussure is an entirely different insect, the female having wings as long as the body.
Size rather small ; form rather robust, abdomen moderately expanded.
Head very slightly broader than deep; vertex subtruncate, juxta-ocular lobes rounded; eyes ovate when viewed laterally; ocelli disposed in a small triangle ; facial shield moderately transverse, the superior margin very slightly arcuate.'
Pronotum over twice as long as broad; collar broad and gradually expanding into the rather well-marked, but evenly curved, supra-coxal expansion; shaft contracting posteriorly; surface with sparse tubercles, median carina slightly marked on the shaft, at the posterior margin flanked l:)y a pair of moderate-sized blunt tubercles ; margins, except the anterior and posterior, with rather even, short dentiform spines.
Tegmina very short, not equal to the pronotum in length ; apex obtuse, narrowly rounded.
Wings very slightly exceeding the tegmina in length.
Abdomen sub-fusiform, the apex rather strongly constricted, the whole bearing a distinct dorsal median carina.
Supra-anal plate transverse, the apical margin subrotundate.
Cerci not exceeding the subgenital plate in length, depressed.
Subgenital plate large, apex rostrate', compressed.
Anterior coxae very slightly longer than the pronotum, the lower margin finely denticulate ; femora slightly longer than the pronotum, very heavily built, external margin bearing five large spines, one of which is blunt and apical, internal margin bearing thirteen unequal spines, discoidal spines three in number; tibiae very slightly more than half the length of the femora, the external margin bearing nine spines, the basal ones much smaller than the apical, the internal margin bearing eight spines, the basal ones smaller than the apical; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median limbs slender, tibiae shorter than the femora, the metatarsi not equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color dull umber, obscurely and irregularly spotted and blotched with diiU ochraceous.
Anterior femora with the internal face shining black.
Measurements.
Total length, 20.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6 Greatest width of pronotum, 3.1 '' Length of tegmina, 4.5 Length of anterior femora 7 Genus STATILIA Stil.
1877.
StatiUa Stal, Bihan2;'till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, Band 4, No.
10, pp.
36, 55.
Included Pseudomanfis nemoralis and Mantis apicalis Saussure, of which the former may l)e selected as the type.^ Statilia maoulata (Tlmnberg .and Lundahl).
1784.
M[antis] maculata Tlmnberg and Lundalil, Dissert.
Entomolog., Pt.
Ill, p."61.
[Japan.]
Thirty-eight specimens; fourteen males, twenty-four females: Yokohama, Japan.
(Loomis.)
[A. N. CaudelL] Kioto, Japan.
(Y. Hirase, No.
29.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra.
October-November, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
[A. N. 8.
Phila.]
After a critical examination of the above rather extensive series, I agree with Bolivar^ that maculata and Jtaani are inseparable.
The difference in size in the series examined is, I admit, rather startling, the extremes in total length being 39.5 and 61.5 mm., Init intermediates between these form a completely connected series.
The Kioto series alone contains the two extremes and a great number of intermediates.
The coloration of the whole series is rather uniform, but several are dull blackish-l)rown instead of the usual grayish-brown.
Genus TENODERA Burmeister.
1S3S.
Tenodera Burmeister, Handb.
der Entom., II, p. 534.
Included fasciata Olivier (=superstitiosa Fabricius).
cJdoreudeta {=aridifolia Stoll), and tessellata {=australasia' Leach).
Of these the first may be selected as the type. ''
The genus Pscudomantis Saussure (Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Suisse, III, pp.
56, 228) contained two species, alhofimbriata Stal and nemoralis Saussure.
As Stal removed nemoralis to Statilia and left albofimbriafa in Pseudomantis, the latter can be regarded as the type of Saussure's genus.
j ^ Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, LXVI, pp.
309-310.
Tenodera super stitiosa (Fabricius).
1781.
[Mantis] superstitiosa Fabricius, Species Insect., I, p. 348.
[.Equinoctial Africa.]
One female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] Genus PARATENODERA n. gen. Typo.
— Tenodera sinensis (Saussure).
This genus can readily be separated from Tenodera s. s. by the stouter and heavier form, much less elongate pronotum, the broader head, the higher facial shield and the heavier anterior limbs.
The principal differential characters would be as follows : A.
— Head with the facial shield about three times as broad as high; pronotum with the collar about one-fifth of the total length of the pronotum; anterior coxse with the lower margin with very obsolete denticles, Tenodera Burm.
yL4.— Head with the facial shield about twice as broad as high; pronotum with the collar not less than one-fourth of the total length of the pronotum; anterior coxse with the lower margin strongly denticulate, Paratenodera Rehn.
Paratenodera aridifolia (Stoll).
1787.
[Mantis] Aridifolia Stoll, Natuurlij Ice Afbeeldinsjen en Beschrijvingen, Spooken, pp.
65, 78, Pi.
XXII, fig.
82.
[East Indies.]
Ten specimens; one male, nine females: Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra.
October-November, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
These specimens are quite constant in size, and in the series examined both the brown and green phase of coloration are present, and in about equal proportion.
Paratenodera sinensis (Saussure).
1871.
T[enodera] aridifolia var.
sinensis Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologiques, III, Suppl., p. 419.
[Ningpo, China.]
Thirty-two specimens; twelve males, twenty females;: Kioto, Japan.
(Y. Hirase, Nos.
32 and 33.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Yokohama, Japan.
(Loomis.)
[A. N.
Caudell.]
The above excellent series shows that the full brown phase of coloration is apparently rather scarce in sinensis, as it is present in but two out of thirty-two specimens.
In a series of eighteen specimens of this species, taken from the introduced colony at Mt, Airy, Philadelphia, the proportion is two in eighteen.
The variation in size is rather great, 45 the females in the series ranging from 25 to 30.5 mm.
in the length of the pronotum.^ After a comparison of sinensis with aridifolia there can be no doubt but that they represent very distinct species.
Genus POLYSPILOTA Burmeister.
1838.
Polyspilota Burmeister, Handb.
der Entom., II, p. 534.
Included conspersa, alhimacula ( = Ma7itis domingensis Palisot), varia {=pustulata Stoll), variegata { = striata Stoll), and catenata { = pustulata Stoll).
As only one, alhimacula, has been removed from the genus, the type must be selected from the remaining four species.
As probably the best known and most representative form of the genus is striata Stoll, variegata, which equals striata, may be selected as the type.
Polyspilota striata (Stoll).
1787.
[Mantis] Striata Stoll, Natuurlijke Afbeeldingen en Beschrijvingen, Spooken, pp.
34, 78, PI.
XI, fig.
41.
[Coast of Angola.]
Two females; Gaboon River, West Africa.
(Rev.
M.
Nassau.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
While these specimens have been dried from alcohol, still it is evident that two color phases, a light and a dark type, are present in this species.
Genus LEOMANTIS n. gen.
Type.
— Leomantis ignota n. sp.
Allied to Sphodropoda Stal," but differing in the very much stouter form, the very much wider costal field of the tegmina, the strongly depressed head and peculiarly developed anterior femora.
Leomantis ignota n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Size medium; form very stout and robust.
Head strongly compressed, subocular in outline, though slightly longitudinal ; vertex very narrowly rounded, arcuate when viewed from the front; eyes ovoid in outline; ocelli small, disposed in a triangle; facial shield over twice as wide as high, the superior margin very obtusc-angulate, the inferior truncate; antenniB not quite equal to the pronotum in length, filiform.
Pronotum very stout, the greatest width equal to half the entire length ; collar short, passing without any marked differentiation into the wide •'■' One female from the Mt.
Airy colony exceeds any of the Japanese specimens in size, measm-ing as follows: Total length 104; length of pronotum 31.4; length of tegmina 64.5; length of anterior femora 24 mm.
6 Ofversigt K. Vetcu.-Akad.
Forhandl., 28, No.
3, p. .399.
Type, Mantis trislis Saussure.
supracoxal tlilation, posterior two-thirds of the shaft subcqiial; dorsal surface finely tuberculate, a strong longitudinal sulcus present on the postei-ior half of the collar and the anterior half of the shaft; margins strongly denticulate except on the anterior portion of the collar; acetabular spine erect, robust.
Tegmina short and rounded, not reaching the apex of the abdomen; costal margin strongly arcuate, sutural margin moderately so, apex obtuse-angulate ; costal field at the widest point equal to one-half the width of the entire tegmina; stigma corneous, slender, subfusiform,^' longitudinal.
Wings about equalling the tegmina in length when in repose.
Abdomen strongly expanded.
Supra-anal plate triangularly^ produced, the apex obtuseangulate.
Cerci attenuate, about equal^o the subgenital plate in length.
Subgenital plate produced, apex rostrate.
Anterior coxa; slightly shorter than the pronotum, superior margin serrate, lower margin with elongate dentiform spines; femora equal to the pronotum in length, superior margin bearing a large, rounded, foliaceous expansion on the apical two-thirds of the joint, lower external margin bearing four large spines, two medium-sized apical spines,^and a series of small blunt spinous tubercles between the largest spines, discoidal spines four in number, closely placed, internal margin anterior to the discoidal spines bearing a series of thirteen spines, posterior to the discoidal spines a series of five blunt tubercles ; tarsi somewhat exceeding half the length of the femora, the superior margin bearing an arcuate foliaceous ridge, external margin bearing a series of seven spines, the basal portion unarmed, the internal margin bearing a series of fourteen spines; metatarsi stout, slightly longer than the remaining joints united.
Median and posterior limbs rather robust ;, femora armed with genicular spines, the genicular lobes rounded; posterior metatarsi not two-fifths of the total tarsal length.
As the specimens examined are all from alcohol, and consequently with the natvu'al colors destroyed, no color notes can be given.
Measurements.
Total length, 50.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 17 " Greatest width of pronotum, 8 " Length of tegmina 21 " (Jn^atest width of t(^gmina, 13 " Length of anterior femora 17 " Greatest width of anterior femora 6 " Beside the type three immature specimens from the same locality have been examined.
Genus SPHODROMANTIS St&l.
1872.
Sphodromantis Stal, Ofversigt K. Veten.-Akad.
Forhandlingar, 28, No.
3, p. 390.
Included hioculata Burm., lineola Burm.
and gastrica Stal, of which the latter may be selected as the type, Stal having had specimens of it before him when he founded the genus.
Sphodromantis biooulata (Burmeister).
1838.
M[antls] hioculata Burmeister, Handb.
der Eutom, II, p. 537.
[Egypt, Nubia and Syria.]
One male and one female : Egypt.^ (Dr. H. C.
Wood.)
[A. X. S.
Phila.]
Tunis, Africa.
(W. P.
Chandler.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
The remark made by Saussure and Zehntner^ concerning the small size of Barbary coast specimens holds true regarding the specimen from Tunis.
Sphodromantis gastrica (St&l).
1859.
Mantis gastrica Stal, Ofversigt K. Veten.-Akad.
Forhandlingar, XV, (1858), p. 307.
[Eikhams, South Africa.]
— 1901.
Sphodromantis hioculata Rehn (not of Burmeister), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 284.
[Sheikh Husein, Gallaland.]
Two females, one immature; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
A re-examination of the immature specimen recorded by the author as hioculata shows that it is undoubtedly Stal's gastrica.
Sphodromantis rudolfae (Rehn).
1901, Sphodropoda rudolfce Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 282.
[Near southern end of Lake Rudolf, western Gallaland.]
This species is a member of the genus Sphodromantis, and allied to S. gastrica, but the two species can readily be differentiated by the following key.
A.
— Greatest width of the costal field of the tegmina median; tegmina surpassing the abdomen; pronotum rounded anteriorly.
gastrica Stal.
A A.
— Greatest width of the costal field of the tegmina basal; tegmina not equalling the abdomen; pronotum rather attenuatca ntcriorly.
rudolfa Rehn.
Genus HIERODULA Burmeister.
1838.
Hierodula Burmeister, Handli.
d.
Entom., II, p. 536.
Included mcmhranacca Burmeister { = hirivia St oil), Jujhrida Burmeister, and simidacriim Fabricius.
Of these the first may be selected as the type. '
See p. 701, footnote.
s Hist.
Phys.
Nat.
et I'olit.
Madagasc, XXIIL Pt.
I, p. 180.
Hierodula vitrea (StoU).
1787.
[Mantis] Vitrea Stoll, Natuurlijke Afbeeldingen en Beschrijvingen, Spooken, pp.
15, 77, PL V, fig.
19.
["Surinam."]
Two females; Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra.
August-September, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This species has been recorded from Siam to Celebes.
Hierodula patellifera (Serville).
1839.
Mantis patellifera Serville, Orthop teres, p. 18-5.
[Java.]
Nine specimens; three males, six females; Kioto, Japan.
(Y. Hirase, No.
35.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
These specimens agree with Serville's original description in having the two brown bars on the basal portion of the lower surface of the pronotum.
On account of this character and the more numerous dentiform processes on the anterior coxa^, I have separated this species from H. bipapilla (Serville), with which it is usually synonymized.
The pronotum and wings in the male also appear to be somewhat shorter than Saussure's measurements of bipapilla,^ though the other proportions do not differ materially.
One specimen of the above-mentioned series is in the full brown phase, another partially so, and the remainder all in the green condition.
The stigma in some specimens is surrounded by an irregular cloud of umber, while in others the cream-colored spot has no surrounding tint.
Hierodula gracilicollis Sta,l.
1877.
H[ierodula] gracilicollis Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, Bd.
IV, No.
10, p. 58.
[Sarawak.]
One male; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] This specimen does not entirely fit Stal's brief and unsatisfactory description which is based on the female.
The tegmina and wings are, of course, very different in proportions and shape, but the other characters agree very well.
The measurements of this specimen may prove of interest: Total length (head and body), 66 mm.
Length of pronotum, 21.5 " Greatest width of pronotum, 6.2 '' Posterior width of pronotum, 4 " Length of tegmina, 47.5 " Greatest width of tegmina, 12.2 " Greatest width of costal field, 3.7 " Length of anterior femora, 15.5 " ^ Melanges Orthopterologiques, fasc, III, p. 227.
Genus EHOMBODERA Burmeister.
1S3S.
Rhombodera Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., II, p. 536.
Included R. valida and R. laticollis Burmeister.
Rhombodera soutata Karsch.
1892.
Rhombodera scutata Karsch, Eiitomol.
Nachricliten, XVIII, p. G. [Angola and Malange, W.
Africa.]
One female; three hundred miles inland from Iienguella, Angola.
(Misses M. and H. S.
Melville.)
[U. S. N. M.] The specimen agrees very well with Karsch's description of tliis single African representative of the genus.
Ehombodera basalis (Haan).
1842.
Mantis (Mantis) basalis Haan, in Tennninck, Verhandel.
Natuurlijke Geschiedenis Nederlandsche overzeesche bezittingen, p. 67.
[Krawang, Java.]
Three specimens; two males, one female: Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[II.
S. N.
U.]
Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra.
August-September, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. :\r.
Hiller.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra.
October-November, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
The tw^o male specimens have retained all of their original coloration, which is quite striking.
The Trong specimen bears more yellowish than the Lampong male.
Ijut the amount of rose-color on the wings is about the same.
The brown ring encircling the stigma mentioned by Wood-Mason**^ is not completely developed in the specimens examined.
Rhombodera megsera n. sp.
Type: 9; Trong, Lower Siam.
{Dr. W.
L.Abbott.)
[Cat.
No.
6,956, U. S. N. M.] Belonging to the same group as flava Haan, major Saussure, lingulata and tltanki Stal, taprobaiuc Wood-^Iason, and pcdoralis Westwood, but closest related to major Saussure.
The new form differs chiefly in the less expanded pronotum.
and the different armature of the anterior coxae.
Size large ; form robust.
Head slightly broader than high ; occipital margin broadly arcuate ; facial shield very slightly broader than high, the superior margin ol)tuse-angulate, and narrower than the base; ocelli rather small, the apex of the unequal triangle being inferior; eyes ovoid, moderately prominent; antennse^ but slightly exceeding half "• Jour.
Asiat.
Soc.
Bengal, LI, p. 32. the length of the pronotum.
Pronotuin rather stout, the greatest width at the supra-coxal dilations, the shaft about three times the length of the collar; anterior margin evenly rounded, posterior margin subtruncate; lateral portions very slightly expanded, and evenly decreasing in width both anteriorly and posteriorly from the supracoxal portion; lateral margins feebly denticulate, more apparent anteriorly; lower face of the slight lateral expansions punctate and coriaceous ; median carina moderately distinct on the shaft.
Tegmina broad, coriaceous except immediately along the sutural margin and the central portion of the median half of the interspace between the principal branches of the ulnar vein; costal margin evenly arcuate, except the apical third, which is diagonally emarginate ; apex narrowly rounded; ulnar vein with three principal rami; stigma elongate-ovate.
Wings of moderate length, equalling the apex of the tegmina when at rest; costal margin straight, except in the apical third, where it curves posteriorly to the subangulate apex; anterior ulnar vein with three distinct and equally disposed rami.
Abdomen moderately broad, the apex of the subgenital plate visible beyond the tips of the closed tegmina and wings.
Supra-anal plate transverse, narrow, the apical margin slightly arcuate, the apex with a very shallow and almost imperceptible emargination.
Cerci attenuate, moniliform, slightly exceeding the subgenital plate in length.
Subgenital plate very broad, apex strongly compressed, rostrate.
Anterior coxse not quite equal to the shaft of the pronotum in length, superior margins, particularly the internal, denticulate, inferior margin with a series of rather large spines, which decrease in size distally and also take on an alternating large and small character ; femora about equal to the shaft of the pronotum in length, apical genicular lobes considerably developed and armed apically with a slight, blunt, dentiform process, external inferior margin with four strong dentiform spines, discoidal spines four in number, internal inferior margin with a series of fifteen alternating large and small spines, the margin with a vacant distal diastema; tibiae (without apical claw) about half the length of the femora, external margin bearing eleven or twelve spines, internal margin armed with fourteen spines ; metatarsi considerably exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length and almost equal to the tibiae without apical claw.
Genicular spine of median and posterior femora rather small; metatarsi of the median limbs very considerably less than the remaining tarsal joints, posterior limbs with the metatarsi, but slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color pea-green, of the most brilliant hue on the tegmina.
Eyes wood-brown.
Stigma of the tegmina proximally and distally bordered with dark brown.
Wings with the entire surface hyahne except the apex, which is suffused with pale greenish.
Abdomen pale greenish-yellow.
Anterior femora with alternate spines on the internal margin basally suffused with reddish-brown.
Measurements.
Total length, 91 mm.
Length of pronotum, .30.5 '' Greatest width of pronotum, 10.5 " Posterior width of pronotum, 6.5 " Length of anterior femora, 23 " Length of tegmina, 51 " Greatest width of tegmina, 18 " Greatest width of costal field of tegmina, 6 " The genus Rhombodera contains two structural types; one with the lateral expansion of the pronotum very distinctly developed, somewhat similar in superficial resemblance to that noticed in Chceradodis and Deroplatys, and the other with these expansions limited or subobsolete.
Li a species described by Brancsik, R. tamolana,^^ is found an annectant type, in which the lateral expansions are fairly well marked, but strictly confined to the anterior portion of the pronotum.
Genus MANTIS Linnaeus.
1758.
Mantis Linnteus, Syst.
Nat., X ed., p. 425.
Type.
— Gryllus (Mantis) religiosus Linnaeus.^^ Mantis religiosa Linnaeus.
1758.
[Gryllus (Mantis)] religiosus Linnaeus, Svst.
Nat., X ed., p. 426.
["Africa."]
Three specimens ; two males, one female : Chemulpo, Korea.
August, 1890.
(Dr. W. H.
Jones.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Yokohama, Japan.
(Loomis.)
[A. N.
Caudell.]
Kioto, Japan.
(Y.
Hirase.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
These specimens are apparently the first Japanese records for this species.
Saussure^^ has recorded individuals of M. religiosa from Ning-po, China, and " le sud de la Siberie j usque sur les c6tes orientales de I'Asie."
The specimen from Kioto, although a female, is much smaller than the male from Chemulpo, but this may be a character of the Japanese '^ Jahresh.
Naturwiss.
Ver., Trencsen, XIX, p. 62, tab.
1, fig.
8.
'^ See Rehn, Canadian Entom., XXXIII, p. 119.
'■' Melanges Orthoptcrologiqiies, fasc.
Ill, p. 415. individuals, as the male from Yokohama is considerably smaller than the Korean specimen.
Genus CALIDOMANTIS Rehn {=Miomantis Saussure).
1870.
Miomantis Saussure, Bull.
Soc.
Entom.
du Suisse, III, p. 228.
(Not of Blanchard, 1842.)
1901.
Calidomantis Rehn, Canad.
Entom., XXXIII, p. 271.
Type.
— Mantis fenestrata Fabricius.
Calidomantis menelikii (Borman.s).
ISSl.
M[^omant^s^ Menelikii Bormans, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Geneva, XVI, p. 209, fig.
[Let Marefia, Scioa.]
1901.
Miomantis fenestrata Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 284.
(Not of Fabricius.)
[Luku, Gallaland.]
The two specimens recorded in the paper cited above prove to belong to Bormans' species.
A very interesting character, omitted from Bormans' brief diagnosis, is the extremely short and transverse supraanal plate.
Calidomantis equalis'* n. sp.
Type: ?
; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Allied to C. semialata (Saussure),*^ but differing in the more robust anterior portion of the pronotum, the higher and less depressed head, and the more equal and less arcuate costal field of the tegmina.
The species described by Schulthess as Miomantis saussurei,^^ while very closely related to the new form, can readily be distinguished by the slender and attenuate anterior portion of the pronotum.
Size rather small.
Head broad, compressed, the superior margin arcuate ; eyes subtriangular in basal outline, the lateral portion shghtly produced; antennae minute, weak; facial scutellum strongly transverse, superior margin with a median rounded lobe flanked laterally by a concave sinuosity.
Pronotum subequal in width, the anterior portion exceeding the posterior part in width and slightly less than half the length of the latter; anterior margin rotundatc-truncate, lateral margins finely denticulate; amplication slight, rounded.
Tegmina rather short, lanceolate, apex moderately acute; costal field subequal in width; anterior margin evenly and regularly arcuate.
Wings about equal to the tegmina in length.
Abdomen fusiform, moderately depressed; supra-anal plate elongate, lanceolate, extending to the tip of the compressed subgenital plate; cerci but slightly exceeding the supra-anal plate in length.
Anterior coxae about four-fifths the length of the pronotum, margins finely denticulate; anterior femora very ^^ In relation to the broad and equal anterior portion of the pronotum.
^^ Melanges Orthopttrolngiques, IV, p. 71, fig.
14.
'« Bull.
Soc.
Vaudoise Sci.
Nat., 4e ser., XXXV, p. 197. slightly shorter than the pronotum, rather heavy, third discoidal spine very robust, external inferior margin with four large spines, internal inferior margin with fourteen spines, one of which is apical and separated from the others by a considerable diastema; anterior tibiae slightly less than half the length of the femora, armed on the external margin with seven spines placed on the median and apical portions, the internal margin armed with eleven to twelve evenly distributed spines; anterior metatarsi equal to two-thirds the length of the tibise and exceeding the remaining tarsal joints.
Median and posterior limbs with the tibite slightly shorter than the femora, genicular spines slight.
General color dull yellowish-brown (specimen taken from alcohol).
Anterior femora with four spots of black on the internal surface, one basal, two parallel and posterior to the ungual sulcus, the superior of these being the largest of any of the spots, and one anterior to the sulcus.
Measurements.
Total length 28 mm.^^ Greatest width of head, 5.-5 " Length of pronotum 11.5 " Greatest width of pronotum 2.9 " Length of tegmina, 12 " Length of anterior femora, 10 " Two other female indi\nduals from the type locality have been examined.
Subfamily Harpaginse.
Genus DEROPLATYS Westwoot!.
1840.
Deroplatys Westwood, in Duncan, Introd.
to Entomology, I, p. 234.
Type.
— Mantis {Deroplatys) desiccata Westwood.
Deroplatys desiccata Westwood.
1840.
Mantis (Deroplah/s) desiccata Westwood, in Duncan, Introd.
to Entomology, I, p. 234, Pi.
9.
[Malacca.1 Two females; Trong.
Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] These two specimens represent two color phases; one a pale ochraceous and sienna l)lended to give a very effective "dead leaf" appearance, the other a dull brownish-purple, suffused on the tegmina with very dvdl greenish-gra^^ " This is approximate, as the abdomen is considerably distorted.
Deroplatys angustata Westwood.
1845.
Deroplatijs angiLstata Westwood, Arcana Entomologica, I, p. 34, PL 9, fig.
2.'
[Java.]
Olio male; Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra.
October-Novemb(u-, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This specimen agrees exactly in the shape of the pronotum with the specimen figured by Westwood.
Genus PHYLLOTHELYS Wood-Mason.
1877.
Phyllothelys Wood-Mason, Trans.
Entoni.
Soc.
London, 1877, p.xviii.
Xype.
— Phyllocrania ivestwoodi Wood-Mason.
Phyllothelys mitratum n. sp.
Type: V (immature); Trong, Lower Siani.
(Dr. W. L.
Al)bott.)
[Cat.
No.
6,972, U. S. N. M.] Closely allied to P. paradoxum Wood-Mason,^* but differing in the form of the facial shield and clypeus, and the shorter head.
Size rather small ; form elongate, bacilliform.
Head elongate ; frontal process almost twice the length of the remainder of head, depressed, superior surface bearing a very distinct median foliaceous longitudinal keel, lateral borders sinuate and bearing a distinct sub-basal and submedian angular lobe, lower surface with a median thickened rib; eyes sub-ovoid, apex interiorly; facial shield slightly broader than high, inferior margin evenly and slightly arcuate, superior margin decidedly arcuate, surface bearing two blunt longitudinal carinse; clypeus transverse, slightly broader superiorly than interiorly, lateral margins sinuate, inferior margin subtruncate.
Pronotum very slender, subequal, slightly expanding posteriorly; anterior and posterior borders evenly rounded ; lateral margins sparsely denticulate ; supracoxal lobes very slightly marked ; median portion of the entire pronotum bearing a faint longitudinal carina.
Mesonotum and metanotum slightly depressed.
Abdomen strongly depressed, greatest width at the fifth and sixth segments.
Supra-anal plate transverse, the apex rectangularly produced and bearing a short longitudinal median carina.
Cerci short, not exceeding the supra-anal plate, fusiform, depressed, apex acuminate.
Subgenital plate transverse, evenly arcuate.
Anterior coxffi slender, but slightly shorter than the pronotum, trigonal in section, the inferior margin very weakly spined; femora slightly longer than the coxae, slender, superior margin straight, external margin with six spines, two of which are smaller than the others IB Jour.
Asiaf.
Soc.
Bengal, LIII, Pt.
2, p. 209, PI.
XIT, fig.
3. and placed on the genicular lobe, discoidal spines four in number, internal margin bearing fifteen spines, of which the apical is the largest; tibia> about one-half the length of the femora, external margin bearing eleven and the internal thirteen spines ; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median and posterior femora bearing lateral foliaceous crenulate expansions, genicular spines distinct; median and posterior tibiae almost equal to their respective femora in length, basally inflated and tumid.
General color very dark wood-brown; inner face and lower surface of the anterior coxae rich red-brown, the lower margin of the coxae alternating ochraceous and black; anterior femora with the internal face brownish-black, bearing a large spot of ochraceous between the discoidal spines and the apex, and another smaller one at the base of the discoidal spines.
Measurements.
Total length (approximately), 26.7 mm.
Length of head, 5.5 " Length of cephalic appendage (from the superior margin of the eyes), 3.5 " Length of pronotum (approximately), 10.6 " Greatest width of pronotum, 1.5 " Greatest width of alDdomen, 3 " Length of anterior femora, 6.5 '' Genus PSEUDOCEEOBOTRA Saussure.
1870.
Pseudocreohotra Saussure, Bull.
Soc.
Entom.
Suisse, III, pp.
241 and 242.
Type.
— Pseudocreohotra ocellata (Palisot).
Pseudocreohotra wahlbergii St§,l.
1877.
P[seudocreohotra\ Wahlbergii Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, IV, No.
10, p. 85.
[Caffraria; Zanzibar.]
Four specimens; adult male and female, two immature individuals; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
On comparison with these specimens, P. amarce Rehn^^ from western Gallaland is seen to be a very distinct species.
The two forms, which occupy quite different regions, may be separated as follows: A.
— Pronotum with the paired tubercles by the posterior margin distinct and dentiform; head with the frontal process considerably longer than the height of the clypeus ; costal margin of the tegmina one and three-fourths millimeters in greatest width, wahlbergii Stal.
""^ Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sd.
Phila., 1901, p. 286.
.4.4.
— Pronotum Avith the paired tubercles by the posterior margin subobsolete ; head with the frontal process considerably shorter than the height of clypeus ; costal margin of the tegmina not over one milUmeter in width amarce.
Rehn.
Genus THEOPROPUS Saussure.
1898.
Theopropus Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, V, p. 204. included T. elegans (Westwood) and T. prcvcontatrix Saussure, of which the former may be considered the type.
Theopropus elegans (Westwood).
1832.
Blepharis eIegans-° Westwood, in Griffitli's Animal Kingdom, XV, p. 190, PI.
78, tig.
3.
[Tenasserim.]
One somewhat innnature female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] This species has also been recorded from Java by Saussure.
The specimen measures as follows: Total length (approximately), 27 mm.
Length of pronotum, 8 " Greatest width of pronotum, 6 " Greatest width of abdomen, 6.5 " liCngth of anterior femora, 10 " Genus PARYMENOPUS Wood-Mason.
1890.
Parymenopus Wood-Mason, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 6th ser., V, p. 437.
Type.
— Parymenopus davisoni Wood-Mason.
Parymenopus davisoni Wood-Mason.
1890.
Parymenopus Davisoni Wood-Mason, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 6th ser., V, p. 437, Pi.
XVII.
[Singapore.]
One female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. X. M.] This specimen agrees very well with the description of the type t>xcept for the fact that the number of spines on the external margin of the anterior tibiae is less (21 and 21 instead of 23), and the individual examined is of larger size.
Subfamily Vatinse.
Genus POPA SUlI.
1857.
Popa Stal, ()fvcrsigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar, XIII, p. 169.
Type.— Popa spurca ^ik\.
= Mantis undata Fabricius.
'^^ By a typographical error misspelled elegaus in the text, but the plate bears the correct form.
Popa undata (Fabricius).
1793.
[Mantis] undata Fabricius, Entom.
^^y.st., II, p. 19.
["Tranquebar."]
Four specimens; three females, one immature indivithial; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. 8.
Phila.]
No difference can be detected on comparison with Somaliland and Gallaland specimens.
Genus DANURIA Stai.
18.57.
Danuria Stal, Ofversigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar, XIII, p. 169.
Type.
— Danuria thunbergi Stal.
Danuria thunbergi St&l.
1857.
D[anuria] Thunbergi Stal, Ofversigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar, XIII, p. 169.
[Port Natal.]
One male; South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Subfamily Empusinse.
Genus IDOLOMORPHA Burmeister.
183S.
IdoJomorpha Burmeister, Handb.
d. Entom, II, p. .547.
Included lateralis Burmeister and gracilis Burmeister, of which the former may be considered the type.
Idolomorpha wahlbergi (St&l).
18.57.
F[a^es] Wahlbergi Stal, Ofversigt K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar, XIII, p. 167.
[Port Natal.]
Two specimens; c?
and 9 ; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
November 3.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Two hnnch'ed and seventy persons present.
On a Collection of Anthropoids.
— Dr. Henry C. Chapman called attention to and described a fine collection recently presented by Dr. Thomas Biddlc, consisting of mounted skins and skeletons of a gorilla, three chimpanzees and an orang utan, together with skeletons of man and a young orang utan.
Comment was made on the })eculiarities which ally man to the anthropoids or separate him from them, as shown in the skeleton, muscles, brain, viscera.
The structure of the hand and foot of man as compared with the corresponding parts of the anthropoids was dwelt on at length.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown spoke of the specific distinctions recognized among the anthropoids, their geographical distril^ution and habits.
He explained the hypotheses which have been offered since Darwin to account for the stages in the phylogeny of the Anthropoidea.
and spoke of certain characters in the teeth and vertebral column which appear to support Cope's view of their derivation directly from the Eocene lemuroids, without the intervention of catarrhine monkeys.
Casts of the earliest known fossil human skulls were shown, and the opinion was expressed that the Neandertlial and Java men were cHstinctly intermediate types.
DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF POLYCH^TA FROM WOOD'S HOLE, MASSACHUSETTS.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
Nereis arenaceodentata n. sp.
A small, slender species, seldom exceeding an inch in length.
The head (PL XL, fig.
1) is about as long as broad, roughly quadrate, with the posterior side about l{r times the anterior, which is strongly conyex, the lateral borders bulging posteriorly, excayated and wrinkled anteriorly.
The two pairs of conspicuous, black, broadly elliptical eyes are almost in contact near the postero-lateral angles of the head ; the anterior somewhat more widely separated and slightly the larger.
Frontal tentacles about f head, slender, conical, di\'ergent; their bases separated by about twice their diameter.
Palps thick, swollen at the base, conical but suddenly constricted and bent at the terminal third ; the style minute and retracted but reaching beyond the frontal tentacles.
Tentacular cirri all relatively short and moderately slender, with yery short crowded basal pieces; the anterior dorsal is about equal to the head ; the anterior yentral about f , the posterior dorsal about twdce and the posterior yentral about f as long.
The buccal region is swollen and wrinkled.
At the anterior end a region of the body comprising the first 4 or 5 somites is considerably enlarged and quite terete ; the body then rapidly narrows to about somite X, beyond which it is nearly linear and of uniform diameter to near the caudal end.
At first the parapodia are small, Init increase in length as the width of the body diminishes, so that the total wddth remains nearly uniform.
Beyond the first third the length of the parapodia equals the width of the body and the animal assumes a depressed aspect.
The caudal end terminates quite abruptly in a short pygidium bearing a pair of anal styles equal in length to the last 8 or 9 segments.
There are 49 setigerous somites in the type.
The parajjodia are all distinctly biramous.
In the first (fig.
2) tlie notopodium is relatiyely small and simple and is achsetous and lacks an aciculum; it consists of a short cylindrical base bearing a single conical lobe, and an equally long, but more slender, dorsal cirrus.
The neuropodium is larger, contains an aciculum and bears setae; besides a short, thick, biunt acicular lobe it bears a posterior and a ventral lobe, both of which are bluntly conical and have their free portions subequal.
The ventral cirrus, borne at the base of the neuropodium, is rather thick with a constricted base, and reaches the tip of the acicular lobe.
The next two or three parapodia change quickly, and by the fifth (fig.
3) the typical form is attained.
The bases of both rami are longer and deeper, and in the neuropodium the posterior lobe has lengthened so that it reaches distinctly beyond the ventral lobe; both lobes are more pointed.
The notopodium exceeds the neuropodium in size and complexity, having a short, posterior acicular lobe and three pointed conical processes, of which the dorsal is the largest, the ventral as long but more slender, and the anterior, which lies immediately before the fascicle of setae, much the smallest.
The slender dorsal cirrus is nearly as long as the dorsal lobe, from just within the base of which it arises.
In succeeding parapodia, besides a general increase in size many changes in proportion of parts take place.
The two rami become more elongated and crowded together, as shown in the thirtieth parapodium (fig.
4).
Here both dorsal and ventral cirri have become much more slender and reduced to a length of i or i of the parapodium, and the former is carried much farther out than in preceding somites; the neuropodial acicular lobe is very prominent, with a distinct presetal process and bears the posterior lobe as a postsetal process, while the ventral lobe has undergone little alteration beyond being more pointed.
The notopodium is nearly twice as deep as the neuropodium.
beyond which it also extends; the largely developed acicular lobe bears the "pointed, now subequal, anterior and ventral lobes as presetal processes; the dorsal lobe stands more apart as a broad, triangular, somewhat flattened piece.
Still farther caudad all of the lobes shrink in size and become elevated on a longer basal region.
Except the notopodium of the first, each ramus of every parapodium contains a single aciculum which is simple, slender, tapering and colorless.
There are two kinds of setae, both having rather slender, slightly curved, transparent, colorless and camerated shafts.
In one form (fig.
8) the blades are very long, slender and acute, especially in the middle region of the body, with one margin delicately fringed; the shafts, as compared with the other kind, are longer, more slender and have the margins of the socket of nearly equal height all around.
The other form (fig.
7) has the shaft somewhat stouter and more curved, the end 46 more distinctly enlarged and the margin of the socket very oblique; the appendage is never more than ^ as long as in the first kind, and is usually ^ or J as long, is more distinctly fringed and terminates abruptly in a rather coarse hook.
The entire seta is less than or only equal to the shaft alone of the first kind.
The short setae occur in both notopodium and neuropodium and in both dorsal and ventral fascicles of the latter.
The first parapodium lacks notopodial setae altogether and only 1 to 3 of this kind are found in the neuropodium.
In the notopodium of the fifth 5 or 6 occur, and in the neuropodium there are 3 or 4 in the dorsal part of each fascicle.
Toward the middle of the body the number increases, the twentieth parapodium supporting about 30 in a spreading fan-shaped notopodial bundle and 6 to 8 in the dorsal part of each neuropodial fascicle.
The thirtieth foot shows a slightly increased number, which by the fortieth has fallen to about 8 in each ramus.
The second form of seta is restricted to the neuropodium, the dorsal bundle of which contains from 3 to 5 and the ventral bundle from 12 to 20 in the first thirty parapodia, while the single bundle of the fortieth contains but 3 altogether.
There is nothing characteristic about the jaws, which have the usual bro\vn color and curved form with a broad base, acute terminal fang and 6 or 7 smaller teeth.
The paragnatha (figs.
5 and 6) are very characteristic.
All of the areas of the basal ring have united into a continuous zone somewhat narrower on the dorsum, covered thickly and imiformly with small, grainlike, bluntly conical, horny papillae (fig.
9), measuring from .03 mm.
to .04 mm.
in height and the same in diameter.
On the maxillary ring the usual six areas are distinctly differentiated.
The paragnatha of the 3 dorsal areas especially are distinctly coarser and more elevated (fig.
10), those of the most anterior rows being largest and strongly hooked.
The median dorsal area has the form of an ellipse, about twice as wide as long and formed of about six transverse rows of about six each, except at the ends.
The dorso-lateral areas are narrowly crescentic, composed of few paragnaths, but the anterior ones the largest and most strongly hooked of all.
The median ventral is nearly circular, composed of numerous small paragnaths similar to those of the basal row and arranged in curved transverse rows.
Finally the ventro-lateral areas are drop-shaped with the base toward the jaws and a slender pointed tail.
None of the specimens had the proboscis protruded and the arrangement of the paragnatha had to be determined by dissection.
Some allowance must therefore be made for distortion of the form of the areas on the folded surface.
The type specimen is 22 mm.
long, 2.3 mm.
between the tips of the parapodia without setse and .7 mm.
in width of body in the middle region.
The small size of the species might lead to the belief that it is an immature phase of another species, but any doubt as to its distinctness is dispelled by the presence of large numbers of mature ova in the coelom of many specimens.
The species occurs occasionally on mussel beds just below low water and was found quite commonly during the latter part of August, both of 1902 and 1903, swimming at the surface of Wood's Hole harbor with other species of sexually mature nereids and syllids.
Loimia viridis n. sp.
In the preserved state the body is rather slender and regularly tapering, the thoracic region passing easily into the abdominal without any sudden diminution in size, though the former is circular in cross-section, the latter flattened below and highly arched above.
The first thirteen somites are smooth and not annulated, the remaining thoracic and first two abdominal (which are longer than the succeeding ones) strongly but somewhat irregularly subdivided.
Apparently there are three primary annuli, the middle one of which bears the parapodia and an irregular zone of sense organs.
Each is divided into two or three very short, often incomplete annuli.
This condition passes gradually into the typical biannulate arrangement of the middle abdominal somites, in which a somewhat larger posterior ann\ilus bears the parapodia and sensory zone.
Toward the caudal end the somites become very short and simple.
The anus is small and surrounded by four very short papillae.
There are nine ventral plates, the first corresponding to somites II to V, the limits of which are indicated by faint grooves, and extending high upon the sides.
Successive plates become gradually narrower and longer, the second being three times as wide as long, while the eighth is as long as the width of its anterior and one and one-half times its posterior end.
The ninth is narrow, transversely wrinkled and ends opposite the middle of somite XIII.
All of the ninth and the posterior half of the eighth are highly vascular.
Dorsad of the ventral plates on each side is a whitish, thickened glandular area anteriorly including the bases of the branchiae and nearly meeting on the dorsum.
Posterior to the branchiae they quickly become narrowed and restricted to the region of the parapodia and disappear altogether at about XII or XIII.
The prostomium surrounds the mouth completely and consists of a broad, fiat, smooth dorsal lobe projecting prominently over the mouth, and much shorter thin lobes on each side which meet in the middle line below and join the peristomium by a narrow isthmus.
Tentacles numerous but small, borne on rather restricted areas which meet in the middle line and extend on each side of the posterior part of the prostomium.
In the preserved specimen the length of the tentacles is less than the diameter of the branchial region.
They are attached by contracted bases in the same manner as Andrews has described for L. turgida.
There is no post-tentacular fold and no eyes.
The peristomium is largely retracted within the free margin of the first ventral plate, from which it projects as a pair of thin lobes which widen dorsally and conceal the ventral limb of the prostomium ; on the dorsal side the peristomium is scarcely recognizable.
Three pairs of branchiae occur on somites II, III and IV; the first is very large, with a length exceeding the diameter of the body at that point, while the third is scarcely one-fifth as long.
They are tall arboriform, each with a stout, tapering, irregularly bent stem bearing irregularly alternate branches (5 on the 3d to 11 on the 1st), each of which again divides in the same irregular manner 3 or 4 times, resulting in very numerous, fine and densely tufted terminal twigs.
The first parapodium is merely a setigerous tubercle just beneath the third branchia.
The remaining thoracic ones have rather prominent dorsal setigerous tubercles and uncigerous tori which are at first short, but increase in length and shift ventrad as the ventral plates diminish in size ; posterior to the region of the ventral plates these tori become more elevated and nearly meet in the ventral mid-line.
The abdominal uncigerous tori are truncate, flattened tubercles projecting caudad from the posterior margin of the somites on the ventro-lateral angle ^ the caudal members of the series becoming minute.
The setae (fig.
11) of each tuft are arrranged in two vertical rows, one composed of more slender, the other of stouter set®.
The former are nearly colorless, slightly curved, axially faintly striated and have a very narrow marginal wing.
The latter are yellowish, nearly straight, rapidly tapering in the exposed part, doubly winged, both wings being obliquely striated and one much wider, the core strongly marked with parallel longitudinal striations and the superficial fibers radiating in all directions to the surface which, as a consequence, has the appearance of being regularly marked with rows of fine granules or very short lines.
On somites XI to XX the uncini are in two rows, on V to X inclusive and caudad of XX in but one row.
On the posterior thoracic somites they are verj' numerous, each torus of somite XX, for example, containing upward of 400, while on XXI, the first abdominal somite, there are but 80.
As usual in the genus, they have the form of flat pectinate plates (figs.
12, 13 and 14) set on edge in the integument with the curved teeth exposed, but they are broader apically than in most species and usually have 6 well-developed teeth, the apical one the smallest and occasionally absent, the basal one much the stoutest.
the base strongly convex with a prominent posterior process and a small tubercle usually present beneath the lowermost tooth.
The total length of the type is 107 mm., width in the branchial region 7.5 mm., width at somite XXI 4 mm., number of somites 92, of which 20 are thoracic and 72 abdominal; somites V to XX are setigerous and uncini are present on all somites beginning with V. The color when living is olive-green, purest in the posterior region, becoming lighter and more or less tinged with red or yellow anteriorly as a result of the blood-vessels showing through the integument.
The tori, particularly on the somites bearing capillary setae, are greenishyellow edged with a narrow red blood-vessel which forms a red spot dorsad of the fascicles of setae.
The ventral plates are yellowish or olive-buff with the prominent anterior border pale green and the furrows and a narrow lateral edging blood-red, while a deep red clothke spot covers a narrow area extending over the middle ventral portion of somites XII, XIII and XIV, from which a distinct red line marks the course of a subneural vessel to XXI.
The lower lip is green, the upper red, the tentacles pale pink.
The branchiae have red stalks with green or white branches.
From most of the nine undoubted species of the genus which have been described from various parts of the world L. viridis is distinguished by its color.
From L. turgida Andrews, the only species hitherto taken on the Atlantic coast of the United States, the shape of the uncini and the absence of dark pigmented rings on the tentacles afford the best distinctions.
The only example of this species known was found by Mr, George Gray burrowing in a soil of sandy mud with A7nphitrite ornata below low water at Ram Island, Wood's Hole, on August 4, 1902.
Repeated search since then has failed to bring any additional specimens to light, and as it is a very conspicuous species it must be quite rare or inhabit some locality hitherto unexplored.
When brought to me this example occupied a thick mud tube nearly indistinguishable from that of Amphitrite.
The types of these two species are in the collection of this Academy.
Explanation of Plate XL.
Nereis arenaceodentata.
Fig.
1.
— Dorsal view of anterior end.
X 32.
Figs.
2, 3 and 4.
— Outlines without setae of the 1st, 5th and 30th parapodia respectively, from cephalic side.
X 56.
Figs.
5 and 6.
— Dorsal and ventral aspects respectively of protruded proboscis, showing the arrangement of the paragnatha; from a dissection.
X 32.
Figs.
7 and 8.
— Examples of the two kinds of setse, from somite XX.
X 1200.
Many, of the stouter sort have the appendage much shorter.
Fig.
9.
— Several of the paragnatha from the basal zone.
X 360.
Fig.
10.
— The same from the median dorsal maxillary area.
X 360.
Loimia viridis.
Fig.
11.— One of the stouter setse from somite X. X 250.
These setse are seldom so straight as represented in the drawing, which has been somewhat diagrammatized from a camera sketch.
Figs.
12, 13 and 14.
— Three uncini from the dorsal, middle and ventral regions respectively, of a torus of somite XXVI.
X 360.
These show nearly the extremes of variation, figure 13 being the most usual form, but slightly foreshortened.
