LIST OF THE POLYCYSTID GREGARINES OF THE UNITED STATES.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
I.
The polycystid gregarines of the United States have as yet been but very Httle studied, and the Hst here given, which I beheve to be complete, contains but twenty-eight species.
Of these, six are also found in Europe and were first described from there.
It is to Prof. Leidy that we owe the better part of our knowledge of the American forms.
Ten species were described by him in accounts pubhshed in the Proceedings of the Academy and in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society from 1848-1889.
In addition to these, four more species are described and figured by Leidy in manuscript notes now in possession of the Academy, access to which I owe to the kindness of the Secretary, Dr. Nolan.
Of the remaining eight forms, one was described by Porter, and seven were found by me in animals collected at Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C, during the past year.
The four forms described in Leidy's manuscript, and the one by Porter, were not named.
I have accordingly created new species for them which, with the seven that I discovered, makes twelve new species.
Although the method of naming a gregarine after its host has been objected to by Schneider, it appears to me the most advisable, and it has accordingly been followed.
Considerable difficulty was experienced, however, in determining to wliich genera these new species belong.
The generic characters of gregarines are mostly those of the cysts and spores, and I was particularly unfortunate in failing to obtain these stages.
In several cases it has been possible to judge, even mthout these criteria, what the correct genus is, and such forms have been placed where they probably belong without question.
Where, however, there was considerable doubt, a question mark has been placed before the generic name.
II.
The following is a list of the Arthropoda found to contain gregarines, the first column giving the number of individuals examined, the second the number parasitized : Julus and Parajulus 165 158 Polydesmus virginiensis ._.. 32 26 Fontaria sp 2 2 Lysiopetalum lactarium 16 6 Spirobolus sp --— 1 1 Lithohius forcipatus -— 13 4 Scolopocryptops sexspinosus 6 3 Scutigera forceps — 4 3 Geophilus sp 8 Elater sp 8 1 Cucujid larva..5 2 Disccelus ovalis — 2 2 Harpalus caliginosus 1 ■ 1 Dytiscus sp., larva 1 1 It is headed with Julus and Parajulus.
These two genera of Diplopods are distinguished by characters of the mouth-parts and anterior feet, but they are much alike and the smaller species of Parajulus are but little larger than those of Julus.
No attempt was made to distinguish between these two genera and much less between the various species, but such an attempt w^ould have been of no especial utility, even if successful.
They are to be found together, beneath logs, stones and leaves, and, as the list shows, they are almost invariably parasitized, the gregarine being Stenophora juli.
It is possible to obtain these Diplopods at any season of the year, and so far as my observations go, the gregarines have no seasonal cycle, but all stages are met with at any time.
Usually a given host contains a moderate number of gregarines, from twenty to forty, these ranging from the largest adults to the smallest intracellular stages.
Frequently, however, only a very few parasites are found in a host, and in such cases they will be for the most part quite small.
In none of the millipedes examined have I come across the cysts, nor, to my knowledge, the free spores.
In consideration of their gregarious habit, and their diet of rotten wood and vegetable fibre, it is easy to see why Julus and Parajulus are so persistently parasitized.
It is also worthy of note that other animals having the same mode of life and generally found in the same places do not appear ever to contain gregarines.
A case in point is that of the Isoi^oda, Oniscus and Porcellio.
These are almost always found with Julus and Parajulus, and they doubtless frequently swallow the spores of Stenophora.
The isopod intestine is, however, lined with chitin, and the immunity is probably due to the inabiUty of a gTCgarine sporozoite to get into the cells.
The 32 specimens of Polydesmus examined were some from Wyncote and some from Raleigh, N. C. Polydesmus is infected by two gregarines, Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis and Amphoroides jontarice.
Of these, both were present in 14 hosts, G. polydesmivirgimensis alone in five and A. fontarice alone in seven.
The Diplopods from one region were about as frequently parasitized as from the other, but G. polydesmivirginiensis was present oftener and in larger numbers in the animals from Wyncote than in those from Raleigh, while the reverse was true in the case of A. fontarice.
It is for this reason that the latter, although a frequent parasite of Polydesmus.
has been named for Fontaria.
Where two gregarines parasitize a given host, it is generally found that one occurs far more frequently than the other.
The more frequent parasite is spoken of as the primary, the other as the secondary.
Usuallyalso, the primary parasite of one host is the secondary of another.
In Pennsylvania, where Polydesmus is common and Fontaria does not occur, the former, as stated above, is more often parasitized by G. polydesmivirginiensis than by A. fontarice.
In North Carolina, where Fontaria is common, the more usual parasite of Polydesmus is A. fontarice.
This gregarine, furthermore, was present in great numbers in the two individuals of Fontaria I was able to examine.
It may therefore be concluded that G. polydesmivirginiensis is the primary of Polydesmus, while A. fontarice is the primary of Fontaria.
In Polydesmus, G. polydesmivirginiensis was usually present in moderate numbers, from 20 to 50, although occasionally there were only a very few.
On the other hand, A. fontarice ran to extremes.
Some millipedes would show only two or three gregarines, while in other cases they were present by the hundreds.
There were only a few, however, in the animals taken at Wyncote.
Of sixteen specimens of Lysiopetalum lactarium.
six were parasitized.
Two gregarines occur, one a new species which I have named Gregarina calverti, the other apparently StenopJwra juli.
Both gregarines were present in two hosts, G. calverti alone in three and S. jidi alone in one.
Thus the former species was present five times and the latter three.
G. calverti is therefore to be regarded as the primary parasite of Lysiopetalum.
This miUipede is found under stones in much dryer places than Julus, Parajulus or Polydesmus, and it is somewhat solitary in habit.
It is thus easy to see why only a comparatively small percentage of them is parasitized.
G. calverti occurred in moderate numbers in all cases, whereas S. juli was present in hundreds in one case and in only small numbers in the other two.
Echinomera hispida, the primary parasite of Lithohius forcipatus, was found only four times in thirteen hosts collected at Wyncote and Raleigh.
In two of these cases, moreover, but a single gregarine was found.
At Cambridge, Mass., where Lithobius is a much commoner animal, a larger percentage are parasitized and the gregarines are present in larger numbers.
Actinocephalus dujardini, the secondary parasite of Lithohius, is very rare.
Scolopocryptops is parasitized by Hoplorhynchiis actinotus .
The gregarines occur in small numbers, from ten to twelve, in fifty per cent, of the Chilopods.
Of the five specimens of Scutigera forceps, four contained gregarines The species is Trichorhynchus pidcher; and never but a very few, from three to ten, are present.
It is not necessary to go over the balance of the list in detail.
Attention may, however, be called to the fact that eight individuals of Geophilus were opened in vain.
III.
Gregarina blattarum Sieb.
Gregarina blattarum Siebold (1839), p. 57, Taf.
3, figs.
57-61.
Gregarina blattarum Frantzius (1S48), p. 190, Taf.
7, fig.
iii.
Gregarina blattarum Stein (1848), p. 182, Taf.
9, figs.
38, 39.
Gregarina blattce-orientalis Leidy (1853), p. 239, PI.
11, figs.
39-41.
Clepsidrina blattarum Schneider (1875), p. 580, PL 17, figs.
11, 12.
Clepsidrina blattarum.
Btitschli (1881), p. 384, Taf.
20, 21 Clepsidrina blattarum Wolters (1891), p. 115, Taf.
7.
Clepsidrina blattarum Marshall (1893), p. 25, Taf.
20, 21.
Common in Periplaneta orientalis, Periplaneta americana and Ectohia (Blatta) germanica.
A few specimens of Ischnoptera pennsylvanicus , the field cockroach, were examined, but none contained gregarines.
?
Gregarina termitis Leidy.
Gregarina termitis Leidy (1881), p. 441, fig.
27.
Gregarina termitis Porter (1897), p. 65, PI.
6, figs.
73-76.
Leidy says : "A small gregarine was once noticed in our Termite, and is represented in fig.
27.
The body is ovoid, with the narrower end posterior.
The head [protomerite] spheroid, compressed from above downward.
Length .06 mm.
; head .018 mm, long, .03 broad; body .036 mm .
broad."
Porter adds the information that the gregarines are very common in some specimens of termites, occurring mostly in the anterior part of the small intestine, and that the nucleus contains one karyosome.
I have opened perhaps a dozen termites in a search for this parasite, but have not yet encountered it.
Gregarina achetaeabbreviatae Leidy.
PI.
HI, figs.
34-35.
Gregarina achetceabbreviatce Leidy (18.53), p. 238, PI.
11, figs 33, 34.
Epimerite: Simple, spherical.
Protomerite: Somewhat pentagonal to hemispherical.
Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp constriction.
Shape modified in the associations.
Deutomerite: Cylindrical, tapering slightly.
Terminating bluntly.
Epicyte: Thick.
Sarcocyte: ?.
Entocyte: Of equal density in both protomerite and deutomerite.
Nucleus: Large, spherical with several karyosomes.
Dimensions: Maximum length 600 microns.
Host: Acheta abbreviata.
Infection extensive.
Locality: Beach Haven, N. J. ?
Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leiily.
Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leidy (1851), p. 208, 287.
Gregarina scarabeirelicti Leidy (1856), p. 47.
I have not seen this species.
■?
Gregarina meloIontbaebrunneaB Leidy.
Gregarina melolonthoebrunneoe Leidy (1856), p. 47.
I have not seen this species.
Gregarina passalicornuti Leidy.
PI.
II, fig.
24.
Gregarina passalicornuti Leidy (1853), p. 238, PL 11, figs.
30-31.
Epimerite: ?.
Protomerite: Hemispherical in the primites ; considerably compressed in the satellites.
Deutomerite: Cyhndrical; sometimes slightly narrower about the middle.
Epicyte: Thick.
Sarcocyte: Thick.
Entocyte: Opaque.
Nucleus: Moderate.
Spherical.
Dimensions: Average length of pairs 350-400 microns.
Host: Passalus cornutus.
■; Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis Leidy.
PI.
II, fig.
25.
Gregarina 'polydesmivirginiensis Leidy (1853), p. 238, PI.
10, figs.
23-29.
Epimerite: Not seen.
Protomerite: Always small; sometimes apparently undeveloped in the younger animals.
Never any constriction between it and the deutomerite in relaxed animals .
Deutomerite: Long.
Anterior half usually much broader than posterior half.
Usually considerably curved.
Epicyte: Very distinct.
H-2 microns thick.
Sarcocyte: Distinct.
EntocTjte: Usually, but not always, considerably denser in the anterior part of the deutomerite than in the posterior part .
Nucleus: Always with one karyosome .
Dimensions: 400 microns long.
Movements: This is a very active gregarine, and displays continually both changes of shape and progression.
The contractions are generally confined to the anterior part of the deutomerite.
As a rule, the smaller animals are less active than the larger.
Host: Polydesmus virginiensis.
Infection is common, the parasites being present in moderate numbers.
Locality: Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C. 1 Gregarina elaterae sp.
n. PI.
I, tig.
ii.
Epimerite: Spherical, with a granular contents.
Usual size and appearance shown by fig.
11.
In several cases, however, apparently on account of the absorption of water, it had increased enormotisly in size, so that its diameter exceeded the length of the gregarine.
Protomerite: Elliptical in outline, with the greater axis transverse.
Posterior limit straight.
Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp constriction.
Deutomerite: Oval to subspherical.
Epicyte: Very thin.
Sarcocyte: ?.
Entocyte: Granular in all three segments .
Sparsely filled with large and verv^ distinct granules, so that the appearance presented was rather that of a ciliate or a heliozoan packed with plant spores than a gregarine.
Nucleus: Not seen.
Dimensions: Maximum length 62 microns.
Movements: The animals were very sluggish, the only movements seen being an occasional lateral displacement of the protomerite, and, in one case, progression of perhaps one-half the animal's length.
Host: The larva of a large species of Elaier.
Infection only occasional, and never but a few gregarines prpsent .
Locality: Wyncote.
Pa. ?
Gregarina discaeli sp.
n. PL I, figs.
7-10.
Epimerite: ?.
Protomerite: Helmet-shaped to pentagonal.
Separated, from the deutomerite by a shallow constriction in the adults, by a deep constriction in the young.
Deutomerite: Greatty elongated, cylindrical to slightly conical, terminating bluntly.
Epicyte: Very thin.
Longitudinal striations not evident.
Sarcocyte: Apparently wanting.
Endocyte: Densely granular and opaque in the deutomerite; nearly transparent in the protomerite.
Anterior part of protomerite free from granules.
Nucleus: Not readily seen, but apparently possessed of a number of karyosomes disposed in a cluster.
Dimensions: Maximum length 1200 microns.
In the young the ratio of length to breadth is about eight to one, in the adults about fifteen to one.
Movements: These gregarines possess the flexibility of an eel.
They frequently bent themselves into crescents, circles and short, close spirals, this last phenomenon demonstrating the spirality of the myocyte.
Fig.
10 shows the longitudinal axis of one contorted animal observed, A being the anterior and P the posterior end.
Host: Disccelus ovalis.
Of the two beetles examined, one contained from 50-75 parasites; the other not nearly so many.
Locality: Wyncote, Pa. No cases of association were seen, but for the most part these gregarines were disposed in dense bunches with their posterior ends glued together.
There was one such mass seen which presented the appearance of a bunch of celery, the animals being all closely apposed from their posterior ends nearly as far forward as their protomerites.
1 Gregarina xylopini sp.
n.i PL III, figs.
20, 30.
The two gregarines shown in figs.
29 and 30 are stated by Leidy to be parasites of the beetle Xylopinus saperdoides.
Of the six beetles examined, five contained gregarines of the form shown in fig.
29, one of the form shown in fig.
30.
These two forms are so dissimilar that it appears better, at present, to give only the figures, reserving the description imtil additional information is at hand.
?
Gregarina boletophagi sp.
n.PL IT, figs.
20-2^.
Epimerite: ?.
Protomerite: Large, variable in shape.
Separated from deutomerite by a sharp constriction. '
From Leidy's MSS. ''
From Leidy's MSS.
Deutoynerite: Cylindrical, with a protrusion at the posterior end, to conical with a pointed end.
Epicyte: Thick.
Sarcocyte: ?.
Entocyte: Dense, uniform in both protomerite and deutomerite.
Nucleus: Moderate ; oval to spherical, with one karyosome.
Dimensions: 320 microns long.
Host: Boletophagus cornutus.
Locality: Swarthmore, Pa. ?
Gregarina calverti' spn. PI.
II, figs.
19-21.
Epimej'ite: Not seen.
Protomerite: Greatly compressed in the large animals (figs.
19, 20).
Anterior boundary usually straight or slightly convex, but frequently concave, giving the protomerite the form of a shallow cup.
Approximately reniform in the young animals (fig.
21).
Constriction always deep and sharp.
Deutomerite: Displays a shoulder at the anterior end, being here widest.
Narrows gradually backward, more regularly in the younger, less regularly in the older animals.
Posterior end always blunt.
Epicyte: Thicker than the sarcocyte.
Longitudinal sculpturing may or may not be present.
It was often possible to see that the protomerite was longitudinally striated, but the cause for this appearance seemed to he deeper than the epicyte.
Sarcocyte: Thinner than the epicyte.
Myocyte: Easily seen in the living animals.
Entocyte: In large animals black in transmitted light in the deutomerite and nearly so in the protomerite.
In most cases, however, the granules do not fill the entire entocyte, but thin out rapidly toward the posterior end, so that in the last fourth or fifth of the entocyte they constitute only a narrow, central strip.
This condition is shown in fig.
21, from a young animal, and is held true for nearly all the gregarines seen.
Nucleus: Not large, spherical, with one spherical karyosome.
Movements: These gregarines, although quite flexible, are rather sluggish, and usually lie motionless.
Progression, when observed, was generally accompanied by lateral movements of the protomerite.
As a rule, the animals were slightly curved, a phenomenon frequently displayed by elongated gregarines.
Diynensions: Maximum length 1,500 microns.
Host: Lysiopetalum lactarium.
Locality: Wyncote, Pa. ''To Philip P. Calvert.
■?
Gregarina harpali sp.
n. PI.
I, figs.
1-4.
Epimerite: Not seen.
Protomerite: In the adults (fig.
1) hemispherical and narrower than the deutomerite, from which it is separated by a sharp, but not extensive, constriction.
In the young (figs.
2 and 3) knob-shaped, wider than the deutomerite and separated from that part by a shallow constriction.
Deutomerite: Conical in the adults to C3dindrical in the young.
The posterior end is normally blunt and rounded.
These gregarines, however, are quite polymorphic and readily change shape.
Epicyte: Relatively very thin in the adults.
INIarked with very fine longitudinal ridges, which are not visible in the living animals and require sections for their demonstration.
Sarcocyte: Not visible in adults.
In the young (fig.
3) present in the protomerite and constituting the thick septum.
Apparently wanting in the rest of the deutomerite.
In the front part of the protomerite a little papilla is present, apparently composed of a differentiation of the sarcocyte.
This papilla is much more evident in some specimens than in others, and sometimes takes the form of a minute knob.
It was never seen in adult animals.
Entocyte: Black in transmitted light in the adults, semi-transparent in the young, but in both as dense in the protomerite as in the deutomerite.
In the young, as shown in fig.
3, there is a crescentic area almost free from granules.
In stained and sectioned animals (fig.
4) this crescentic area is seen to consist of very dense cytoplasm, with a considerable affinity for stains.
This condition is wholly lost in the adults.
Nucleus: In the living animals, wholly invisible in the adults and not satisfactorily to be made out in the young.
Sectioned material shows that it is large, spherical, and possesses several karyosomes.
These are variable in size and are scattered singty throughout the entire extent of the nucleus.
The}^ display the usual phenomenon of vacuoles.
Movements: The movements displayed by these gregarines were leisurely muscular contractions and slow progression.
There was also a disposition to rumple the edges of the body, so that the epicyte of the deutomerite presented a series of scallops.
These scallops underwent slow changes, the movement being doubtless the usual peristalsis, although very much slower than in the case of most gregarines.
Progression was in either more or less of a straight line, or in curves of short radius.
In the latter case, the animals held their bodies so Ijent that the longitudinal axis formed a curve.
In all cases progression was 4 extremely slow.
A number of animals showed no movement whatever and some of these held the scalloped outhne without change.
Dimensions: Length 225-700 microns.
_ HostHarpalus caliqinosus.
The gregarines were present m the intestine of the one beetle examined in hundreds, and while no associations were seen, there was a very marked tendency for them to be lying massed closely together.
Locality: Wyncote, Pa. mirmocystis ovalis sp.
u. PL I, Ags5-6.
Evimerite: Usuallv elliptical in outhne, with the longer axis transverse, but frequently considerably flattened down.
Wall with double contour.
Contents hyaline.
Protomerite: Hemispherical.
Deutomerite: Cylindrical to oval, but more usually the latter.
Always terminating bluntly.
_ Epicyte: Thin over the anterior part of the protomerite; elsewhere thick.
Longitudinal striations not seen.
Sarcocyte: ?.
.
, , i i?
; Entocyte: Dark brown in the larger individuals, and of approximately the same density in both protomerite and deutomerite.
The anterior third of the protomerite is usually, but not always, free from granules.
Nucleus: Not seen.
Dmensions; Greatest length 70 microns.
■ , ,.
HostThe larva of a beetle doubtfully identified as belonging to the Cucuiidffi The gregarines occurred sparingly, ten or twelve being the greatest number lound in any one host.
About half the insects examined w^ere parasitized.
T Euspora lucani spn.^ PI.
HI, fig.
38. lZomt%e:'^m^\\, compressed from before backward.
Separated from the deutomerite by a deep constriction.
Deutomerite: Cyhndrical; sometimes narrower m the middle.
Epicyte: Thick.
Seircocyte: ?.
Entocyte: ?.
d"*«,'o,LOf one association; primite 320X128 microns, satellite 360 X 1 OS microns .
*FromLeidy'sMSS.
Host: Lucaniis dama .
Locality: Swarthmore, Pa.
The gregarines occurred either singly or associated in pairs.
Stenophora juli Frantzius.
Gregarinajuli Frantzius (1848), p. 194, Taf.
7 fig x 1-2 Gregranria iaruateLeidy (1848-49), p. 232. '
*' ' Gregarinajuli-viarginatil.eidy{li5i),Y>.
'2Z7,V\ 10 figs l-'^O Gregranm;«Zf-jOim<ZZiLeidy (1853),p.238, PI 10 figs 21-22' ' Stenocephalus -juli Schneider (1875), p. 584, PI.
20, figs.
29-33.
The best figures extant of this gregarine are those pubhshed by Leidy m 1853.
His fig.
17 is especially good in showing the apparent orifice through the thickened epicyte of the anterior part of the protomerite The contortions displayed by the gregarine are also portrayed in an admirable manner.
This species lives in the intestine of Julus and the smaller species of Para]ulus.
It is extremely common, occurring in at least 90 per cent of the hosts examined, usually in moderate numbers, from forty to fifty or thereabouts, but frequently only a very few are present.
All stages from the smallest intracellular forms to the largest sporonts, may^e found at any season of the year, but cysts are very rarely seen. '
Stenophora juli continues as a cell parasite until it has reached a length of perhaps 100 microns.
The cephalont stage is probably omitted.
Leidy gives the maximum size as one-thirtieth of an inch which is nearly a millimeter, but I have never seen the species longer than 400 microns.
Stenophora spiroboli sp.
u. Pl.
ii, flg.
22.
Epimerite: Not seen.
Protomerite: Very small, narrower than the deutomerite and much compressed from before backward.
blimtr"^'''^'"' ^^^^"''^"'^^'^^P^""g ^'"-'^ ^'^^y little and terminating: Epicyte: Very distinct; about !
{ microns thick.
Longitudinal striations easily seen.
Sarcocijte: Well developed; about 2 microns thick over most of the animal, but attaining twice this thickness at the posterior end.
Entocyte: Opaque in both protomerite and deutomerite.
Nucleus: Not seen.
Dimensions: Maximum length 1,000 microns.
Movements: While progression was slight, the animals showed constant muscular movements.
In some cases they bent themselves into the shape of the letter U, in others merely the anterior end was bent over, but the one condition passed into the other.
In addition, the anterior end was constantly being wrinkled and distorted, and little pseudopodia-like processes were protruded and withdrawn.
Host: Spiroholus.
But one individual examined, which contained seven or eight gregarines, none less than 500 microns in length.
Locality: Raleigh, N. C. Echinomera hispida AimL' Schn.
Echinocephalus hispidus Schneider (187.5), p. 593, PL 16, figs.
36-40.
This gregarine was found in four out of thirteen individuals oiLithohlus foirijxitus collected at Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C, but it is much commoner at Cambridge, Mass.
Echinomera microcepliala Leidy.
Gregarina microcephala Leidy (1889), p. 11, 1 figOur knowledge of this form rests upon a very short description given by Prof. Leidy.
It is very much like Echinomem hispida, and is accordingly placed in that genus, but retained as a distinct species.
The total length is 350 microns; greatest width 100 microns.
The protomerite is 12 microns long by 40 microns wide.
Host: Hoplocephala bicornis.
Trichorhynchus pulcher Aime Schn.
Trichorhynchus pulcher Schneider (1882), p. 438, PL 13, fig.
14.
Gregarina megacephala Leidy (1889), p. 11, 1 ng.
This form is well described by Aime Schneider, whose figure also is excellent giving a very accurate idea of the actual animal.
Schneider, however 'gives no dimensions, while Leidy says that the dimensions vary from 420-750 microns, these figures agreeing very closely with those which I obtained.
My own observations on this species show it to be an active, very polymorphic gregarine, with the ability to undergo extensive alterations in shape.
Thus, the anterior end of the protomerite, normally a blunt curve, frequently protrudes in a long tongue-shaped process.
The peristaltic movement, so frequently displayed by gregarmes, iw, in this species, pass forward as well as l^ackward.
This inchcates that here the contractile elements are capable of operating as weU m one direction as another, which is certainly not the case in most polycystid o;regarines.
, , ,^, •, ,^ Fusion, preparatory to encystment, was seen to take place head to head."
Amphoroides fontarise sp.
n. PI.
I, figs.
12-14.
Epimerite: Not seen.
Protomerite: More or less pentagonal in outline.
Separated from deiitoraerite by an evident constriction.
Deutomerite: Variable, normally a long oval.
Sometimes shows a distinct shoulder in front.
Always terminates bluntly.
Epicyte: Very distinct over the entire animal.
Greatly thickened at the anterior part of the protomerite, this feature being as well marked in the smallest as in the largest animals.
Longitudinal striations not evident.
Sarcocyte: Always present, but much more evident in some animals than in others.
Entocyte: Very opaque in the deutomerite, and nearly transparent in the protomerite, the contrast between the two parts being very sharp in this gregarine.
Nucleus: Moderate in size, spherical, with one usually spherical karyosome.
Not always evident in the living animals.
Dimensions: Maximum length 135 microns.
Movements: This gregarine is very active, displaying constantly both muscular contractions and a gliding progression.
The muscular activity manifests itself in lateral displacements of the protomerite, in bendings of the deutomerite and in a peristalsis which involves the anterior part of the deutomerite.
Profession is easy and rapid and always accompanied by evidences of muscular contraction.
Hosts: Polydesmus and Fontaria, Diplopods of the famih' Polydesmidse.
The gregarines were usually present in hundreds in the parasitized animal, but often only a very few could be found.
Localities: Wyncote, Pa., and Raleigh, N. C. Asterophora philica Leidy.
PI.
Ill, figs.
31-33.
Gregarina philica Leidy (1889), p. 9, 1 fig.
It is impossible to give a description of this species.
Figs.
31 and 32 are very plainly of the same gregarine, whereas fig.
33 seems almost certainly to belong to a different species.
Further, the form figured by Leidy in 1889 is not so closely like that shown by figs.
31 and 32 as to render it certain that the two are the same.
I therefore include the three different forms under the same name, giving only the figures and reference, until such time as sufficient material is obtained to determine accurately what the actual facts may be.
The gregarines figured were about 300 microns long.
Asterophora cratoparis sp.
n.5 pi.
ii, fig.
2S.
Epimerite: Small; consists of a number of ribs projecting from a central knob.
Protomerite: Nearly reniform, but with a conical projection in front, upon which rests the epimerite.
Separated from the deutomerite by a sharp constriction.
Deutomerite: Lanceolate; terminating bluntly.
Epicyte: Thick.
Sar oocyte: ?.
Entocyte: ?.
Nucleus: Not small; spherical, with a spherical karyosome.
Dimensions: Length 540 microns.
Host: Cratoparis lunatus, a beetle of the family Cm'culionidse.
Eight gregarines, all attached to the wall of the host's intestine, were present in the one individual examined.
Locality: Swarthmore, Pa. Stephanophora locustaecarolinae Leidy.
Gregarina locustcecarolince Leidy (1853), p. 239, PL 11, figs.
35-38.
Provisionally placed in the genus Stephanophora on account of the character of the epimerite.
I have not yet encountered the species.
Botliriopsis histrio Aime Schn.
PI.
II, figs.
15-18.
Bothriopsis histrio Schneider (1875), p. 596, PI.
21, figs.
8-13.
Bothriopsis histrio Leger (1892), p. 136, PI.
13, figs.
1-3.
This gregarine was described by Aime Schneider in 1875.
The diagnosis then given is as follows : Epimerite wanting.
Protomerite forming a large rounded mass, of which the anterior part may be either very convex or quite concave.
Deutomerite oval.
Septum projecting forward in such a fashion that it resembles the finger of a glove.
Nucleus elliptical in outline, with several karyosomes.
Epicyte with double contour, sarcocyte wanting and entocyte very finely granular.
Animal highly polymorphic and movements very rapid.
Hosts: Hydaticus cinereus (larva), Colymbetes fuscus and Acilius sulcatus.
Leger adds the information that the epimerite consists of a number of long filaments.
I find what is apparently the same gregarine in the larva of Dytiscus sp., but four or five imagines were opened in vain.
My observations, however, differ somewhat from Schneider's, although they do not appear to warrant creating a new species.
Fig.
15 shows the protomerite of this gregarine.
As stated by Schnei^FromLeidv'sMSS.
der, it is a large rounded mass; but whereas Schneider's figures represent it to be sohd, I find that it contains, at least in some cases, a large cavity.
Within this cavity was a fluid in which floated a few granules.
This condition was the more usual, and free gregarines.
as they moved about on the slide, presented a remarkable appearance with their enormous balloon-shaped protomerites.
The appearance of other individuals was, however, markedly different.
Fig.
17 shows an attached animal.
Here the protomerite was narrow and elongated, the narrow anterior end being, so far as I was able to see, embedded in the cells of the host.
In this case there were no indications of a cavity within the protomerite.
It is to be observed, in figs.
15, 17 and 18, that the septum dips backward.
In a number of cases, however, the septum dipped forward, and such appears to have been the only condition seen by Schneider.
In these gregarines, accordingly, the septum may dip in either direction, which indicates a high degree of flexibility and elasticity on the part of the sarcocyte, and this condition is also suggested by their superlative polymorphism.
It is therefore possible to interpret the rather curious appearance shown in fig.
16.
This was drawn from a progressing individual, to all appearances wholly normal.
In this animal, the protomerite lies embedded within the deutomerite.
It may be suggested that this is derived from the condition shown in fig.
18 by a mere contraction of the most anterior part of the deutomerite, by which the protomerite is forced backward.
Quite a number of animals presented this appearance.
Fig.
18 is from a permanent mount, and probably represents the normal form of the protomerite when only a small quantity of fluid is present.
It is noteworthy in that the protomerite is more densely granular than the deutomerite.
The larger, more elongated specimens reached a length of 425 microns.
There were about 25 gregarines in the beetle-larva, which was taken at Wyncote, Pa. Actinocephalus dujardini Aime Schn.
Actinocephalus dujardini Schneider (1875), p. 589, PI.
16, figs.
9-20.
I have seen this little gregarine several times in specimens of Lithohius forcipatus.
Hoplorhynclius actinotus Leidy.
PI.
Ill, figs.
36, 37.
Gregarina adinotus Leidy (1889), p. 10,1 &g. Epimerite : Amphora-shaped.
Differentiated in front into four dichotomoiisly branched lobes.
Contents hyaline.
Easily detached.
In the small animals, making up nearly one-half the total length; in the adults, from one-fourth to one-fifth of the total length.
Protomcrite: In the young, knob-shaped, with the transverse and longitudinal diameters al^out equal.
In the adults, hemispherical, with the transverse diameter twice as great as the longitudinal.
Deidomcrite: Conical, Avith a pointed posterior end.
Usually a shoulder at the septum.
Subject to considerable alterations in shape, being at one time longer and narrower, at another shorter and broader.
Epicytc: About 3 microns thick [in the larger individuals.
Longitudinal striations could not be made out.
Sarcocyte: ?.
■ Eniocyte: Absolutely opac^ue in the larger animals.
Much more nearly transparent in the smaller.
Nucleus: Only apparent as a light oval area, usually l3dng diagonally across the deutomerite.
Dimensions: The largest sporont seen was 485 microns long by 105 microns broad.
Leidy gives 600 microns for the length of a cephalont.
Host: Scolopocryptops.
Not rare.
Infection usually moderate, from 15-30 parasites per host.
Loccdity: Wyncote, Pa., Raleigh, N. C, and Walhngford, Pa.
Apparently, in this gregarine, the septum tends to disappear.
It is much more evident in some cephalonts than in others, and in one sporont seen no septum could be made out, and the entocyte of the protomerite was not distinguishable from that of the deutomerite.
Doliocystis rhyncobli sp.
n. Porter (1897«), p. 8, PI.
3, figs.
37-53.
This form is described, but not named, by Porter, and the figures given are scarcely diagnostic enough to determine the correct genus.
Its habitat, the intestine of the marine worm Rhyncobolus americanus Verrill, renders it probable, however, that the parasite belongs to the genus Doliocystis, and the specific name rhyncoboli may appropriately be used.
Porter describes it as a tricystid, but says : "The conical base of the epimerite is continuous with the contents of the anterior portion of the protomerite, for there is an orifice through the cuticular wall of the protomerite, and the base of the epimerite is composed of protoplasm very similar to that of the protomerite."
But such an intimate union between the protoplasmic parts of protomerite and epimerite is not known to exist in gregarines.
It may therefore be suggested that that part of the animal which Porter took to be protomerite plus epimerite was in reality only the epimerite, and that the gregarine is truly a dicystid.
The deutomerite is described as being composed of very loose and highly vacuolated protoplasm, and the nucleus as showing several karyosomes.
The animal is 700 microns long.
The host is Rhyncoholus americanus Verrill.
The parasite occurs in one worm in ten, and rarely more than eight were found in any one host.
Porter makes the suggestion that gregarine locomotion "is probably caused by a very slight undulatory motion of the under side of the animal."
I regret having been unaware of this suggestion, which accords with my own opinions, at the time I wrote my article on gregarine progression.
Bibliography.
Bt'TSCHLi, O., 1S81.
Kleine Beitriige ziir Kenntniss der Gregarinen.
Zeit.
f. wiss.
Zool., Bd.
35, pp.
3S4-409, Taf.
20 u.
21.
Fraxtzitjs, Al., 1848.
Einige nachtragliche Bemerkungen iib er Gregarinen Arch.
Naturgesch., 14 Jahrg., Bd.
1, pp.
188-197, Taf.
7.
Leidy, Joseph, 1848-49.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
of Phila., Vol.
4, p. 231 (verbal communication) .
Leidy, Joseph, 1851.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
8ci.
of Phila., Vol.
5, pp.
208, 287.
(verbal communications).
Leidy, Joseph, 1853.
On the Organization of the genus Gregarina of Dufour.
Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Society, Vol.
10, N. S., pp.
233-241, Pis.
11, 12.
Leidy, Joseph, 1856.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
of Phila., Vol.
8, p. 47 (verbal communication).
Leidy, Joseph, 1881.
The Parasites of the Termites.
Jour.
Acad.
X'at.
Sci.
of Phila., Vol.
8, Second Series, pp.
425-447, Pis.
51, 52.
Leidy, Joseph, 1889.
Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
of Phila., 1889, pp.
9-11 (verbal communication) .
Leger, L., 1892.
Eecherches sur les gregarines.
Tabl.
Zoologiques, t. 3, pp.
1-182, 22 PI.
Marshall, W. S., 1893.
Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Gregarinen.
Arch.
Xaturgesch., Bd.
1, pp.
25-44, Taf.
20, 21.
Porter, J. F., 1897.
TrichonA'mpha, and other Parasites of Termes flavipes.
Bull.
Museum Harvard, Vol.
31, pp.
45-68, 6 PI.
Porter, J. F., lS97a.
Two Xew Gregarinida.
Jour.
Morph., Vol.
14, pp.
1-20, Pis.
1-3.
Schneider, Aime, 1875.
Contributions a I'histoire des Gregarines des Invertebr^s de Paris et de Roscoff.
Arch.
Zool.
exper., 4, pp.
493-604, 7 PI.
Schneider, Aime, 1882.
Seconde contribution a I'etude des Gregarines.
Arch.
Zool.
exp^r., 10, pp.
423-450, PI.
13.
SlEBOLD, Th., 1839.
Beitriige zur X'aturgeschichte der wirbellosen Thiere.
Ueber die zur Gattung Gregarina gehorigen Helminthen.
X^^eueste Schriften der naturf.
Ges.
in Danzig., Bd.
3, Heft 2, pp.
56-71, Taf.
1-3.
Stein, Fr., 1848.
L'eber die Xatur der Gregarinen.
Miiller's Archiv, pp.
182-223, Taf.
8.
Wolters, M., 1891.
Die Conjugation und Sporenbildung bei Gregarinen' Arch, fiir mikr.
Anat., Bd.
37, pp.
99-138, 4 Taf.
Explanation of Plates I. II and III.
Plate I, Fig.
1.^ — Gregarina harpali (p. 49).
Adult.
Fig.
2.
— Gregarina liarpali (p. ,49).
Young.
Fig.
3.
— Gregarina harpali (p. 49) .
Protomerite of a young animal.
Fig.
4.
— Gregarina harpali (p. 49).
Section of the protomerite of a young animal.
Fig.
5.
— Hirmocystis ovalis (p. 50).
Sporont.
Fig.
6.
— Hirmocystis ovalis (p. 50).
Cephalont.
Fig.
7.
— Gregarina disccsli (p. 47).
Adult.
Fig.
8.
— Gregarina discceli (p. 47).
Young.
Fig.
9.
— Gregarina discceli (p. 47).
Protomerite of an adult animal.
Fig.
10.
— Gregarina discceli (p.' 47) .
Diagram showing the longitudinal axis of a contorted animal, A being the anterior and P the posterior end .
Fig.
11 .—Gregarina elatera (p. 46).
Cephalont.
Figs.
12-14.
— Amphoroides fontarice (p. 53).
Adults.
Plate II, Figs.
15-18.
— Bothriopsis histrio (p. 54).
Fig.
19.
— Gregarina calverti (p. 48).
Adult.
Fig.
20.
— Gregarina calverti (p. 48).
Protomerite of an adult.
Fig.
21 .
— Gregarina calverti (p. 48) .
Young Fig.
22.
— Stenojjhora spiroboli (p. 51).
Adult.
Fig.
23.
— Asterophora cratoparis (p. 54).
Cephalont.
(Copied from Leidy's MSS.)
Fig.
24.
— Gregarina passalicornuti (p. 45).
Association.
(Copied fron.
Leidy's MSS.)
Fig.
25.
— Gregarina polydesmivirginiensis (p. 45).
Adult.
(Copied from Leidy's MSS.)
Figs.
26-28.
— Gregarina holetophagi (p. 47).
(Copied from Leidy's MSS.)
Plate III, Figs.
29, 30.
— Gregarina xylopini (p. 47).
(Copied from Leidy's MSS.)
Figs.
31-33.
— Asterophora philica (p. 53).
(Copied from Leidy's MSS).
Figs.
34, 35.^ — Gregarina achetoeabbreviatce (p. 45).
(Copied from Leidy's MSS.)
Figs.
30-37.— Hoplorynchus actinotus (p. 55).
Cephalonts.
(Copied from Leidy's MMS.)
Fig.
38.
— Euspora lucani (p. 50).
Association.
(Copied from Leidy's MMS.)
STUDIES ON THE HABITS OF SPIDERS, PAETICULARLY THOSE OF THE MATING PERIOD.
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR./ PH.D.
It is remarkable how little the habits of spiders have been pursued, in consideration of the fact of their many peculiarities.
Their webs and the making of them have received the most attention, and next to that their architecture of nests and burrows.
A great literature has grown up about the subject of the "threads of the Virgin," as to the use of spiders in medicine, and as to their supposed venomous bites.
On the subject of generation, where the spiders are especially removed from other animals, for the most part only scattered and brief observations are to be found, and these mainly among the older observers.
Menge, who saw and described more of the mating habits than any other naturalist before or since, took the pains to watch each of his specimens alive in a bottle before killing it, and this was the simple secret of his success.
Most of the other recorded facts of mating, except the notable ones of de Lignac, Bertkau and the Peckhams, were gleaned from chance observation in the field, which must be necessarily less full and precise.
Let the arachnologist watch his spiders in the life before he kills them to describe their carcasses, and the facts of structure will have a richer and more inspiring influence, -^i-^^i.
And of further interest is the consideration that spiders were first classified according to a certain set of habits, namely, the architecture of their webs, and some of the groups thus early defined are still rectified by morphological characters.
In them is to be found a good opportunity for examining the conservatism of habit, and for testing how much reliance in taxonomy may be placed upon similarities of habit — similarities that may persist through great changes of structure.
The present study concerns mainly the processes of courtship and copulation, the remarkable filling of the palpi with sperm (for which the term "sperm-induction" is here introduced), the process of cocoonmaking, and the maternal care for the young.
Other observations have also been included on moult, and in some cases on feeding habits.
^ Contribution from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania.
The genera studied and the famihes in which they are grouped are the following: Lycosidse {Lycosa, Pardosa, Pirata, Ocyale), Agalenidse {Tegenaria, Agalena), Dictynidse {Dictyna), Theridiidse {Theridium, Teutana, Sicatoda, Linyphia), Pholcidse (Pholcus), Epeiridse (Epeira, Acrosoma), Thomisidte (Xysticus), Philodromidfe {Philodromus) and Drassidse (Prosthesima , Thargalia, Drassus).
The Attidse were purposely omitted, since good work has been done upon them by the Peckhams.
The method employed was to keep the smallest species in glass testtubes, the others in glass boxes of various sizes.
A considerable variety of the latter were made by using microscope sUdes and old photographic plates from which the films had been removed.
Strong gummed linen was used for holding the parts together.
A very convenient glass cage for observing the mating of small Lycosids is to take a photographic plate 11 x 8 cm.
as a base, three microscope sHdes (each measuring 7.5 x 2.5 cm.
or 7.5 x 4 cm.)
as the walls, arranged together in a triangle with their narrow diameter vertical to the base, and the ends of two of the slides with just sufficient aperture between them to allow^ the placing of another slide as a moval^le partition; and finally two shdes, each 7.5x4 cm., as covers.
Where the edges of any two of the walls meet at an angle a strip of gummed linen is pasted on, also at the angle of each wall with the floor; and by gummed linen strips the glass covers are hinged to the upper edge of one of the walls.
Thus one can make a tight and strong cage, with tw^o compartments separated by a glass partition, and each compartment with its own hinged cover.
Other cages were made rectangular without movable partitions; and for the larger species, and for those that make webs, large cages were made of photographic plates entirely.
Such cages are readily and cheaply made, and more than a hundred of various sizes and forms were employed.
Their advantages are obvious.
The whole is of glass, the linen strips which hold them together can be made narrow and short and placed so as not to interfere with any observation.
The floor being also of glass, one has simply to hold the cage over a mirror to see the spiders from underneath, and its surface retains in drop-form water introduced for drinking purposes.
When the floor has become soiled with excrement or remains of food, the gummed linen that holds it to the walls may be torn off, the floor washed, then returned and gummed into position again.
It is of great advantage to have the floor removable in the case of species which build a web in the upper part of the cage, for then it may be removed and cleaned without injury to the web.
For species that cannot easily climb the smooth glass walls, such as the heavier Epeirids, threads may be tied upon these walls to give them a foothold.
To observe burrowing habits one should put earth in the cages.
Small spiders may be used as food when insects are not obtainable, house flies at other times.
All ground spiders need water freciuently, and the species of Pirata quickly die from thirst.
Attempts to feed the spiders with beef extract were unsuccessful.
It is by no means sufficient, however, to simply place the spiders in their glass cages.
Great patience in expectant watching is demanded, and no results can be gained unless long continuous periods can be given to this w^atching.
To observe the mating, the spiders should be collected in their natural mating season, and mature males introduced to females which have just become mature; and in the case of the Lycosidae the collecting should commence in the early spring.
Partition cages are most useful for the spiders which do not spin webs, as they obviate any handling; in the web-making species the male should be gently dropped from a test-tube upon the web of the female ; in no case should the spiders be handled with forceps.
Freshly cavight specimens generally give the best results.
The considerable number of deaths which resulted during the month of September were mainly on account of starvation, due to my absence at that time.
This contribution is divided into three parts: Observations, General Considerations, and a list of the literature bearing upon the subjects of courtship, mating, parthenogenesis, cocooning, sexual selection, and care of eggs and young.
The literature list it has been my aim to make as complete as possible.
The species of Dictyna, Teutana, Steatoda, Linyphia, Xysticiis, Drassus and Philodromus, Mr. Nathan Banks, Assistant in the Division of Entomology, U. S. Department of Agriculture, has kindly identified for me, and it gives me pleasure to express my thanks here for this service .
Finally, I would dedicate the work to the one who cheered long vigils of observation with her sympathy.
Lycosa stonei Montg.
PI.
V, fig.
10.
This small species is found abundantly in local woods in the spring and early portion of the summer, running upon the dead leaves on the ground.
Later in the summer it becomes rarer, the females then hiding themselves under stones, and the males disappearing.
The general coloration of the female is an admirable adaptation to the color of dead leaves ; the male is smaller, mainly deep black in color, and the tibiae of his first pair of legs are covered with vertically implanted bristles, not so conspicuously, however, as the male of L. ocreata pulchra.
It is very readily kept in captivity, when supplied with sufficient water.
Individuals observed, males: No.
34, captured May 4, immature, killed May 10; No.
37, captured May 4, moult May 24, killed the same day by a $ ; No.
151, captured May 26, killed by 9, June 16; No.
164. captured May 31, killed by ?
on the same day; No.
236, captured June 22, killed by parasite July 21 ; No.
238, captured June 22, died July 8 ; No.
240. captured June 22. died June 27 ; No.
284, captured July 2, died July 7.
Individuals observed, females: No.
36, captured May 4. moult May 7, died in November; No.
51, captured May 6, killed May ll(then immature); No.
165, captured May 31, still hving; No.
184, captured June 10, died October 4; No.
227, captured June 27, still living; No.
228, captured June 22, escaped July 20; No.
229, captured June 22, escaped August 11; No.
230, captured June 22, escaped late in September; No.
231, captured June 22, died October 18; No.
237, captured June 22, killed by parasite July 3 ; No.
239, captured June 22, killed by parasite August 26; No.
241, captured June 22, moult July 19, killed by parasite about September 8; No.
244, captured June 22, moult July 3, died August 16 (then not mature); No.
285, captured July 2, killed by parasite about September 1; No.
287, captured July 2, killed by parasite about September 30; No.
324, captured July 23. still living.
Moult.— 9 No.
244 moulted in about half an hour, hanging to the wall of her cage by her spinnerets; she fell out of the old skin, which was split horizontally along its whole length backward almost to the spinnerets.
<^ No.
37 took only a few minutes to complete his moult.
Mating.
— The following records were made on this process: .
(1) ?
No.
36.
Several males were put in her cage before she had completed her final moult, on May 7, but there was no courtship.
Then after similar resvilts with males Nos.
34 and 37, the latter was introduced again on May 24, when she killed him.
On May 27 d' No.
151 was introduced; courtship followed but no copulation.
At 2.15 P.M. on May 28, the same male was put in and immediately started his courting motions.
These consisted of the following movements: The male generally walks with his first pair of legs stretched before him, tapping the ground with them occasionally; this is evidently to feel the objects in front of him.
When he had touched the female with them, he immediately recognized her sex, stood higher upon his legs, raised his first pair and flexed them backward at the femorotibial joint, then straightened them out in front of him again, repeating this several times, and at the same jerking his whole body backward and forward with the movement without changing the position on the ground of the other feet ; there was no waving of the palpi.
He left her, walked around the cage, returned and repeated the motions ; they were then face to face, when she lowered her head to the ground, flexed her legs closer to her sides and, so to speak, cowered before him.
Then from in front he walked over her head, and embraced her tightly with his three anterior pairs of legs; his head was pointed toward her posterior end and just above the pedicel of her abdomen.
In the copulation he would turn his cephalothorax first a little to one side of her body, then to the other, throwing both palpi over that side of hers to which he had turned.
When his head was turned toward her right side, his right palpus would be stretched down along the right side of her abdomen and inserted in the epigynum ; when toward her left side, the left palpus would be inserted.
Thus to alternate the palpi he had each time to shghtly change his position upon her, but the grip of his legs remained unchanged.
Each palpus would be rubbed against her epigynum until inserted, then kept there until an invaginated swollen sac of the palpal organ had collapsed, a period not exceeding twenty seconds, when the palpus would be withdrawn and rubbed between his chelicera.
The following palpal insertions were made, the abbreviations r and I being used for right and left palpus respectively, the first numbers giving the time extent, the second the number of insertions into the epigynum: r, 2.1S-2.20, 3 or 4; 1, 2.202.21, 5; r, 2.21-2.28^, 4; 1, 2.28^-2.31^,7; r, 2.3U-2.38i, 6; 1, 2.38i2.53i, 15; r, 2.53^-3.01, 9; 1, 3.01-3.11, 7; r, 3.11-3.19, 6; 1, 3.19-3.26, 5; r, 3.26-3.30, 3; 1, 3.30-3.36i, 4; r, 3.36i-3.38, 4; 1, 3.38-3.42+, 3; r, 3.42^3.46, 3; 1, 3.46-3.50^, 3; r, 3.50^-3.59, 4; 1, 3.59-4.04, 3; r, 4.04-4.07, 2; 1, 4.07-4.12, 2; r, 4.12-4.18*, 3; 1, 4.18^-4.23+, 2; r, 4.23+-4.26, 1 ; 1, 4.26-4.28, 1 ; r, 4.28-4.31, not inserted once.
Then he rose and moved away and was taken from the cage; she remained motionless for several minutes afterward in the same attitude; her only movements during the copulation was to flex the side of her abdomen upward to meet the palpus applied.
This copulation lasted 2 hours and 13 minutes.
At 7.40 P.M. on the same day he was put in again, but she received him hostilely with upraised fore-legs.
On May 29, when introduced, he courted again, but she was hostile, and this was repeated on May 31.
(2) 9 No.
51 was immature, and was very aggressive toe?
No.
41, whom she killed on the last occasion; he had made no courting movements.
As other females of this species, when she is hostile to a male, with uplifted fore-legs she moves very slowly and stealthily toward, then makes a quick rush at the male.
(3) 9 No.
165 killed on May 31 d No.
164, after courtship, c?
No.
151 was introduced on June 2, but though he courted at first, he soon ceased by reason of her aggressiveness.
On June 3 the same male was put in for more than an hour; he courted with interruptions, she would sometimes jump at, sometimes run from him.
On June 5 the same male was introduced at 5.00 P.M.
He immediately commenced his courting motions and came close to her, when she jumped at him; he turned away and walked around the cage, still courting, came back face to face with her ; she lowered her outstretched fore-legs, bent her head to the ground, and he embraced her and commenced the copulation.
The attitudes were as in the case of cJ No.
151, 9 No.
36.
The copulation lasted from 5.02 until 6.17 P.M., that is 1 hour and 15 minutes; the palpi were quite regularly alternated, the right used 12 times and the left 13 times.
The male then rose and left her, and was removed; the female remained in the same position until 6.24.
In the early part of the copulation the palpus was kept inserted for 4-5 seconds; in the latter part, for 20 seconds.
(4) 9 No.
184 made her cocoon on June 29. and so was pregnant when I introduced c?
No.
151 on June 12 and 13 ; both times she reacted hostilely to his courtship.
(5) ?
No.
237 was parasitized.
On June 22, 23 and 26, o'' No.
236 was introduced and courted each time, but she was hostile.
In his courtship both legs of the first pair were not alwaj^s moved in unison, but sometimes alternately.
(6) 9 No.
239 was also parasitized.
On June 22, 23 and 24, c?
No.
238 was placed in her cage and he courted, but she repulsed him each time.
June 26 d" No.
236 (just after his courtship of ?
No.
237) courted her, but in vain, and this was the case with c?
No.
238 on July 1.
(7) 9 No.
241, likewise parasitized, c?
No.
240 was introduced on several occasions, but though he courted there Avas no response.
(8) 9 No.
244 was not mature, and males Nos.
267, 284 and 326 when introduced did not court.
Thus there is quite a distinct courtship l^y the male of the mature female, even when she is pregnant.
The courting motions are modifications of the cautious feeling motions ; the stretching out of the first pair of legs enables the male to feel and so to guard himself.
Even in his ardor, then, the instinct of caution toward a stronger individual is not lost.
When the female stands high upon her legs and stretches out her fore-legs, it is the same attitude of guard but with offensive intent; a frightened female, Avhcn attacked by a stronger individual, does not make use of this attitude, but slinks away.
The female shows her willingness to the male by depressing these fore-legs.
The bristly tibiffi of the male are shown off l^y the courting movements of the male ; but other Lj^cosicls without such armature make similar movements.
That sight pays a considerable part in the mating of this, as of other Lycosids, is shown by the actions at a distance.
But apparently the first recognition of sex is by touch.
Sperm-induction.
— c?
No.
151 concluded his copulation wdth 9 No.
165 at 6.17 P.M., June 5.
At 7 P.M. of the same day he cleaned himself, then went to one corner of the cage and commenced to brush his spinnerets over the floor.
He formed a roughly-made small sheet of web of triangular outline, one side of it on the floor, one on the wall of the cage, and the third (the longest) free in the air from the wall to the floor.
With his chelicera he then tore away some of the silk on this free edge, making it smoother there, doing so from 7.10 to 7.25.
Next he placed himself above the sheet as follows : The ventral surface of his cephalothorax upon the upper free edge of the sheeting so that his palpi hung down over this edge, his abdomen slightly elevated above and parallel to the sheet, the legs of his right side against the vertical glass wall, those of his left upon the floor.
At 7.28 a small yellowish drop of sperm, its diameter not greater than that of one of his metatarsi, fell from his genital aperture on the superor surface of the sheet at about its middle point.
He then reached his palpi downward and backward, below the sheet, and applied the concave portion of the palpal organ of each against that part of the sheet which carried the drop of sperm.
Each palpus was thus rubbed against the lower surface of this drop several times, then withdrawn and slowly shaken in the air, while the other was similarly applied to the drop.
This continued until 7.35, by which time all of the sperm had been taken into the palpal organs.
He remained perfectly quiet in the same position up to 7.53, depositing no more sperm, and then walked about the cage.
Cocooning.
— The cocoon is a nearly globular bag, and the mode of making it was seen several times, of w^hich these will serve as examples : (1) 9 No.
231 was observed on June 28, at 7.30 P.M., spinning a circular disk of silk {" base" of the cocoon) on the floor, close to the edge of a nearly evaporated drop of water.
This base's diameter did not quite equal the length of her body.
She was then brushing her spinnerets from side to side, and rotating her body at intervals.
At first she made frequent pauses, but fewer as she proceeded, and gradually enlarged the diameter of the base until it quite equaled the length of her body.
This continued until 8.15, when she changed the method of spinning, and started to build a silken wall upon the margin of the base ; this she accomplished by elevating her spinnerets high in the air after each stroke, then applying them again close to the first point of 5 attachment of the threads, thus laying down looped threads.
As she did so she rotated her body slowly, keeping the tips of her palpi pressed against the portion of the margin opposite the one to which she applied her spinnerets.
So she formed a narrow marginal wall, low but quite visible to the naked eye, made entirely of looped threads.
This was finished at S.35.
Then she stood so across the cocoon base that her palpi touched the wall in front and her spinnerets the wall behind, and oviposited upon the centre of the base.
From her genital aperture fell a large ch'op of viscid fluid, its upper surface remaining adherent to her genitalia, and the yellowish ova dropped into it one by one.
The oviposit'on lasted from 8.36 to 8.41, when she tore herself loose from the viscid drop and started to spin the cover of the cocoon.
She spun over the egg mass uninterruptedly from 8.41 to 8.59, forming a dense covering and battening the silken wall down at the same time.
From 8.59 to 9.01 she occupied herself with loosening the cocoon from the glass floor of the cage, doing so by seizing with her chelicera and pulling first one part of the edge of the base, then another, bracing her legs firmly against the ground, until she had completely loosened it.
She then held it a moment attached to her spinnerets, then from 9.02 to 9.24 held it below her cephalothorax with her third pair of legs, revolving it in this position with her palpi, and spun upon its surface with abdomen flexed vertically downward.
Thus was formed a perfect globular cocoon, white in color.
(2) 9 No.
228 was observed at the close of the cocooning, which was like that of the preceding case.
(3) 9 No.
229 did not spin the bas;^ of her cocoon directly upon the floor of the cage, but upon a scaffolding of threads inclined at a slight angle to the floor and joined to the wall.
From 11.03 to 11.17 A.M. she was occupied in spinning the marginal wall, from 11.18 to 11.22^ in the oviposition, from 11.23 to 11.58 in making the covering (in the first part of which she elevated her spinnerets and did not brush them, thus preventing them from adhering to the viscid drop), from 11.58 to 12.02^ in tearing the cocoon loose, and from 12.05 ta 12.30 in spinning upon the cocoon while h^ld beneath her body.
These three were the only normal cocoon-makings observed.
This species is peculiar in sometimes making tlie base of the cocoon without a preliminary scaffolding.
All the other cases resulted disastrously, due either to the spinnerets of the mother becoming clogged with the viscid suljstance surrounding the eggs, or, in most of the cases, to her maldng the mistake, when tearing the cocoon loose from the flo(;r, of tearing the cover from the basG; thereby leaving the egg mass exposed.
In all these cases the first part of the cocooning and the oviposition proceeded normally; the mistake was in making the cover or in tearing the cocoon loose.
And once a mistake in the progress was started none of these individuals w^ere able to rectify it, though one tried for a few moments to spin over the rent in the cocoon, and each in conclusion chewed up either the imperfect cocoon or the eggs; when the cover was torn off the eggs, the spider would very frequently chance to break some of the latter, and once she tasted their contents she would eat them.
They would seem perplexed after a cover had separated from the base, would remain still a long while, would feel with the palpi first the cover and then the egg mass on the base ; usually they would take the isolated cover beneath the body and spin upon it there, as they do with a normal cocoon, but did so irregularly.
An isolated cocoon cover was never carried attached to the spinnerets more than a short time.
One spider had made her cocoon perfect except for a break at one point between the cover and the base; this resulted in an elongated, irregularly conical cocoon, which she dropped from her spinnerets after a few days.
Now the reason for such abnormal cocoons seems to be in a mistake made in tearing the cocoon loose; but there is still a reason back of this one, at least for some of the cases.
It was my custom with these spiders, as with the other Lycosids, to put a drop of water upon the floor of their cages every day or two, for them to drink.
Three of the miscarried cocoons whose making was observed, were commenced by spinning over the surface of this drop of water.
The water in some way mingled with the silk of the cocoon, and at least contributed to making it a failure.
Why they should spin over the water I cannot say, except that perhaps the feeling to the touch of the surface of the water may simulate the feeling of a silken layer, and so awaken reflexes to spin at that place.
In any case, all the Lycosids and one Philodromid, which chanced to lay the base of their cocoons upon a water surface, made a failure of these cocoons.
But in no other species have I experienced such a high percentage of failures as in Lycosa sionei.
The number of cocoons, and the dates, were as follows: 9 No.
36, June 6, a failure; ?
No.
165, June 25, a failure; ?
No.
184, June 29, a failure; ?
No.
227, June 27, July 16, both failures; $ No.
228, June 25, July 14, the second one a failure; ?
No.
229, June 29, a perfect cocoon, but cut open too soon by the mother, so that the eggs rolled out; ?
No.
230, June 27, July 14, both failures; 9 No.
231, June];22, a perfect cocoon, but the mother destroyed it.
Care of the Young.
— The mother carries the cocoon attached to her spinnerets, bites it open around the equator to allow the young to escape, then carries the latter upon her body for a few days.
Parasites.
— One male and six females died from the effects of an endoparasitic dipterous larva.
One spider contained two of these parasites, the others one each.
After the parasite, whose Ijulk nearly equals that of the body of the spider, has eaten away most of the soft parts of the spider, it emerges through a hole it makes in the wall of the abdomen of the spider, and this emergence kills the host.
It is strange that these spiders should live so long with such a huge parasite within them.
A short time before the parasite escapes the spider acts in a peculiar manner, walking about spasmodically and often spinning aimlessly.
The most remarkable case of this kind was the following: ?
No.
237 occupied July 3 in spinning a completely closed, oblong sack, with a ength of 30 mm.
and a greatest depth of 20 mm.
This silken sack was placed in the angle between two vertical walls and the roof of the cage, and its contours were rounded where not in contact with the glass.
This completed around her, she remained in it until the evening, when the large parasite emerged.
An indirect explanation may l^e that Ihe parasite irritateil the nervous centres governing her spinning apparatus, she was thus instigated to spin, and it was merely a coincidence that she chanced to surround herself with a sack.
Two of the parasitic larvse which emerged I kept until they perfected and developed into winged imagos.
M}^ friend, Mr. Charles W. Johnson, identified them as Acrocerids.
Lycosa ocreata pulchra Montg.
Individuals observed, males: No.
91, captured May IS, killed by $ No.
186, June 12; No.
110, captured May 19, killed May 31; No.
170, captured May 31, killed by ^ No.
171, June 7.
Individuals observed, females: No.
92, captured May IS, moult July 12. killed July 12; No.
Ill, captured May 19, killed May 31; No.
171, captured May 31, escaped June 13; No.
186, captured June 10, still living; No.
317, captured July 14 (then with a cocoon), died October 4.
Moult.
— On July 12 9 No.
92 was found on the floor of her cage, evidently dead; she was put in alcohol, but then moved vigorously, and the old skin on the dorsal side of her thorax separated off.
Accordingly she Avas in the quiescent state of a lieginning moult.
The remarkable point of this moult was that on June 3 she had copulated — i.e.
a copulation had preceded the last moult.
Mating.
— The following cases were seen : (1) 9 No.
92. d^ No.
91 was placed with her for three hours on the night of May 18, but there was no attempt at mating; this was repeated during two hours on the following night, as also on May 28 and May 31.
At 8.10 P.M., June 3, the same male was again introduced.
She moved about at intervals, he avoiding her, up to 9.12.
Then I chanced to look at another cage for half a minute, and when I looked back found the pair in copula.
The position was the one usual for this genus, he above her with his head pointed toward the posterior end of her abdomen and his three anterior pairs of legs holding her tightly; his first patellse were just behind her fourth femora, his second patellae behind her third femora, his third patellae behind her second femora.
Only one palpus was inserted at a time; when his right palpus was used his head was turned obliquely over the right side of her body; when his left was used, over the left side.
The sequence of usage of the palpi, the time, extent, and the number of times each was inserted before the other was used, was as follows (using the abbreviations r and I for right and left palpus respectively) : r, 9.13-9.13^, the number of times not noted; 1, 9.13^-9.14^, 3;r, 9.14^-9.15^, 3; 1, 9.15^-9.17, 4; r, 9.17-9.19, 5; 1, 9.19-9.21, 4; r, 9.219.23i 5; 1, 9.23i-9.26f, 6; r, 9.26|-9.29, 5; 1, 9.29-9.33, 6; r, 9.33-9.37, 4; 1, 9.37-9.41, 5; r, 9.41-9.43, 2; 1, 9.43-9.47, 3; r, 9.47-9.50, 3; 1, 9.50-9.53, 2; r, 9.53-10.02, 4; 1, 10.02-10.04^, 2.
He made each palpal insertion by reaching the palpus down and rubbing it against her epigynum, and while it M'as inserted a large sac evaginated from the side of the palpal organ; the palpus was kept inserted until this sac collapsed, a period of about 15 seconds in the earlier part of the copulation, and of 30-40 seconds in the latter part; then the palpus was withdrawn and rubbed against his mandibles.
At the end of the copulation (which had lasted 52 minutes) the male rose and walked off, immediately proceeding to the act of sperm-induction.
(2) 2 No.
Ill was immature, and when cT' No.
110 was placed with her they avoided each other.
(3) ?
No.
171.
(J No.
170 was placed in her cage May 31, and again on June 1 and 3, but no mating followed.
On June 7 the same male was introduced at 8.49 P.M. From then until 8.51 they were motionless with their legs touching, when each backed off a little, he then in his characteristic attitude of defense, with his first pair of legs drawn up and back so that their patellae touched the top of his ccphalothorax.
At 8.52 he quivered these legs, she made a step toward him, then both remained still with uplifted fore-legs.
At 8.54 she made another short step toward him, not aggressiA'ely, i.e., without uplifted fore-legs, but he backed off a little as before.
At 8.55 he made a short jump upon her, and quickly got into copulatory attitude, she motionless in his embrace.
Their position was as in the case of 9 No.
92.
Xd^ No.
91; the act lasted from S.o5 to 10.22 P.M., 1 hour and 27 minutes; the palpi were inserted alternately, the right 16 times and the left 15 times.
Then he rose, she also started up quickly, chased and killed him within a few seconds, and ate him.
(4) 9 No.
186 was pregnant when I introduced c5^ No.
91 on June 12, and she killed him.
In all these cases there was no sign of a courtship on the part of the male; after touching the female, he would raise his fore-legs in defensive attitude, and if she was desirous she would approach him with lowered fore-legs, otherwise she would try to kill him.
Now there is a noticeable secondary sexual difference : the tibiae of the first pair of legs of the male only are covered thickly with long, vertically implanted black bristles, making them look like miniature test-tube brushes.
When the male stands before the female with these legs flexed, as he does, with the patellse close to the sides of his cephalothorax and his body crouched near the ground, the tibiae are more horizontal than inclined upward.
This, then, is not the best attitude to exhibit them to the female; they would be best shown off if they were directed vertically upward.
On this account, this bristling of the tibiae can hardly be regarded as a sexual ornament that is exhibited to charm the female.
Further, it may be noted that this position of the first pair of legs is also assumed l^y the female when roughly handled or frightened; it is an attitude of defense of the species, not of sexual exhibition.
These bristles are possessed only l3y the mature males.
I could not determine that they serve any particular purpose, though certainly they give these legs a firmer hold upon the abdomen of the female during copulation.
Sperm-induction.
— cT No.
91, immediately after his copulation with 9 No.
92 on June 3, moved to another corner of her cage and spun upon the floor from 10.11 to 10.15.
Then as he was interrupted by her approach, I separated her by use of the sliding partition.
He commenced spinning again at 10.19, at the angle of a wall and the floor, brushing his spinnerets to and fro upon the glass, on the floor and on the.
wall, all the time beating the tips of his palpi upon the overspun area.
This continued up to 10.32, when a fine covering of silk, barely visil^le with a hand lens, covered that part of the floor.
At_10.32 he elevated his abdomen slightly, still standing over the silken covering, and discharged a minute globule of sperm from his genital orifice upon the silk sheeting.
This globule rolled to the ventral surface of his sternum, and he then appUed the tips of his palpal organs alternately to this part of his sternum, and rubbed them against it; this was evidently the process of taking the sperm into his palpi, though I could not see the drop at this time.
This continued from 10.32 to 10.37, then he ceased, and did not repeat the process up to 11.40, when I ended the observation.
Cocooning.
— This was seen only once.
9 No.
186, on June 21, at 11.35 P.M., was found spinning on the floor in a corner of the cage, slowly and with frequent pauses.
She soon ceased, but began again at 1.30, and at 1.50 had made, upon a scaffolding of lines passing from the floor to the wall and inclined at an angle of 40'^, a white, circular silken disk, the base of the cocoon.
The diameter of this base was about equal to the length of her body.
She continued to spin upon it up to 2.27, but slowly and with frequent rests.
In the earlier portion of this time the spinnerets were brushed from side to side, before backward rather than from side to side, and she rotated her body l)ut little.
In the later portion she spun mainly upon the margin of the base, and formed there a barely perceptible wall of curled threads made by elevating her spinnerets after each stroke, and rotated her body while spinning.
She stood with the tips of her palpi and her first and second pairs of feet upon the edge of the silken disk (base), her other feet upon the surrounding scaffolding.
At 2.27 she stood quiet over the base with her head turned toward its highest edge, discharged a large drop of yellowish fluid of viscid consistency upon the centre of the cocoon base, and, while the upper surface of this drop still adhered to her epigynum, dropped the ova into it one by one.
At 2.31| she started to break loose from this drop, but half a minute passed before she w^as able to do this, the surface of the drop adhered to her so firmly.
At 2.32 she commenced spinning the cover to the egg mass with a brushing movement of the spinnerets, and, except for a pause from 2.35 to 2.37^, this continued up to 2.57, Thus the egg mass (within its viscid drop) was flattened down and was evenly covered with silk.
The time from 2.57 to 3.01 was occupied in biting loose the margin of the cocoon from the surrounding scaffolding.
The cocoon at this stage was lenticular, and the margin of the base projected beyond the cover.
At 3.02 she held it beneath her cephalothorax, holding it there with her third pair of legs and slowly revolving it with her palpi and chelicera; at the same time she spun vipon it, holding her abdomen bent vertically downward.
She then fastened it to her spinnerets and so carried it about, spun on it for a short time again at 3.26, then hung it definitely to her spinnerets and was not seen to spin upon it any more that day.
The peculiar part of the above cocooning, in comparison with other Lycosids, was its slowness, pauses occupying more time than the spinning itself.
The number of cocoons, and the dates, were as follows for ?
No.
186: June 21, this one did not hatch, but was chewed up by the mother; July 13, this also did not hatch.
Care of the Young.
— The cocoon is normally carried attached to the spinnerets until it hatches.
?
No.
317, who was captured with a cocoon, bit it nearly in two around the ecjuator to allow the young to escape; the young took above four hours on July 15 in leaving the cut cocoon to get upon her body, and the first of them left her on the night of July 19.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz.
Individuals observed, males: No.
232, captured June 22, moulted July 11, killed by ^ No.
273, August 21 ; Xo.
233, captured June 22, moulted July 2 and IS, killed by 9 No.
271, August 25; No.
275, captured June 27, moulted July 14, killed by ?
No.
273, August 25.
Individuals observed, females: Xo.
271, captured June 27, moulted July 1 and 20, still living; No.
273, captured June 27, moulted July 3, 14, 31, still living; No.
278, captured July 2, moulted July 3, died July 24 (then immature) ; No.
326, captured July 23, moulted July 24, still living.
Moult.
— 9 No.
273 was found at the conclusion of the process at 10.30 P.M.
The exuvia was upside down and attached by its feet to web-lines in the upper part of the cage; the spider was hanging attached to it b}'' her spinnerets.
She did not start moving until 10.42; at 10.57 she walked away from the old skin, and then remained c^uiet for half an hour more.
The old skin breaks by a horizontal split, as in other spiders.
Mating.
— The following cases were seen : (1) 9 No.
273.
After her penultimate but before her final moult cJ* No.
232 was introduced in her cage on July 15, 16 and 18.
Though he was still immature he courted her on all these occasions ; and he courted her at frequent intervals when they were not together in one cage, recognizing her at a distance of several inches through the glass of the cages.
When courting he held his body close to the ground, his last three pairs of legs stretched out nearly straight, but his first pair of legs were flexed at the femoropatellar joint so that the femora were drawn back over his cephalothorax, the tibia and tarsus held nearly horizontally in the air.
Then first, the palpi are swung outward and upward in alternation, each five or six times; second, one leg of the first pair is pushed forward and its foot tapped 6-10 times upon the floor in front of him, being pushed forward a little after each tap, the abdomen twitching in time with the tapping of the foot; and, third, the leg is withdrawn and flexed over the eephalothorax ^gain.
This process occupies from 10 to 15 seconds, then there is a short pause, followed by a repetition of the act in which the opposite leg is pushed forward.
This maybe repeated several times without his moving from one spot, and not only when he is not facing the female, but also w^hen he is at some distance from her.
\Vhen he is facing her, and evidently sees her, while courting he advances toward her, taking a very short step forward during each act of courtship; sometimes he may advance as much as 2 or 3 millimeters at a time, sometimes again by still smaller steps, the rate increasing somewhat as he comes nearer to her.
In case the female moves aw^ay in a course at right angles to his line of vision, he quickly turns around to keep her in view, but does not hasten his slow advance.
I have also seen males when in their own cages, and out of all view of a female, commence to make these courting motions, even to continue them for some hours; but unless the female is in view, they do not advance while courting.
This immature female, while being courted, plainly saw him, and would move away from him without his touching her; she made no determined hostile rushes upon him, and he did not appear afraid of her.
Sometimes she assumed an attitude of defense, the long axis of the body at an angle to the floor with the spinnerets touching the floor, and the first and second pairs of legs elevated and stretched out before her.
On July 31 she completed her final moult, and on August 1 the same male was introduced at 9.20 P.M., and kept in until 10.30; he courted, but she avoided him.
He was introduced again on August 21, at 10.33 A.i\I., saw her at 10.36, and immediately commenced courting; at 10.38 she turned to face him and touched him with her fore-legs, when he immediately climbed over her head, embraced her and commenced the copulation.
The attitude of the embrace was the same as in other Lycosids — the male above the female facing in the reverse direction, his head above the pedicel of her abdomen, grasping her with his three anterior pairs of legs; the female with legs outsprawled, and making only the movement of flexing the ventral surface of her abdomen upward on its long axis so as to bring her epigynum within reach of his palpal organ.
The male lies rather obliquely across the female so as to extend his palpal organ downward to reach the epigynum ; when he lies obliquely across her right side he employs his right palpal organ only, when across her left side his left palpal organ.
During the time of each palpal insertion a large sac on the median side of the palpal tarsus swelled up, and the palpus was not withdrawn until this sac had collapsed; when a palpal organ was withdrawn it was each time drawn through the chelicera before it was inserted again.
The following figures give the details of the copulation, r and I being used for right and left palpus respectively, and the numbers giving the time duration: r, 10.39f-10.41 ; 1, 10.41-10.41i ; 1, 10.411-10.42 ; r, 10.42-10.42^; I 10.4.3-10.43i; 1, 10.43^-10.44; r, 10.44i-10.44f ; 1, 10.45-10.45^ ; r, 10.45^-10.46 ; 1, 10.46^ 10.47; r, 10.47i-10.47i; r, 10.47^-10.48^; r, 10.48^-10.49; 1, 10.49^10.49f ; r, 10.5010.50^ ; 1, 10.50^-10.51; r, 10.51|-10.51f ; 1, 10.52-10.52i; r, 10.52i-10.53; r, 10.53^10.54; 1.
10.54^10.54f ; 1, 10.55i-10.55i; 1, 10.55f-10.56; r, 10.564-10.56f ; 1, 10.57-10.57i; r, 10.57^10.571; 1, 10.57f-10.58|; r, 10.58-10.58t; 1, 10.59-10.59i; r, 10.59* (2 seconds); r, 10.59f-11.00; 1. ll.OOi-ll.OOf ; r, 11.00|ll.Oli; i, ll.Oli-ll.Olf ; r, 11.02-11.02^; 1, ll.02i-ll.03; r, 11.03|11.03f ; 1, 11.03f-11.04; r, 11.04^0-11-041; 1, 11.04|-11.05; r, 11.05tV11.05^; 1, 1 1.051-11.06; r, 1 1.
061-1 1.06|; 1.
11.06|-11.07; r, 11.07yLll.OTi; h 11.07f-11.07x\; r, 11.08-11.08^; 1, 11.08^-11.081; r, 11.0911.09i; I, 11.09i-11.09y%; r, 11.10-11.10^; 1, ll.lOf-ll.U ; r, 11.11| ll.llf;l, ll.lU-11.12;r, 11.12^0-11-12^; 1, 11.12i-11.12/o ; r, 11.1311.13i;l, 11.13i-11.13T\;r, 11.
14-11.
14^; r. 11.
141-11.
14|; 1, ILM^V 11.15I-; r, 11.
15^-11.
15f; 1, 11.
16-11.161; r. 11.
16^-11.
16^; r, 11.16f11.16f ; 1, 11.16i-11.17TV; r, 11.
17^-11.
17f; 1.
11.17|-11.18|; r,11.18i11.18i;r, 11.18^11.181; 1, 11.
19-11.
19i; r, 11.19^-11.101; r, 11.20tV11.20i:l, 1 1.
201-1 1.20f;r, 11.20^-11.21 ^ ; 1, 11.21i-11.21f ; r, 11.21|11.22tL;1. ll.22i-11.22f;r, 11.23-11.233^; l, lL23i-11.23f ; r, 11.23|11.24^;; 1, 11.241-11.241; r, 11.
25^-1 i.25i; 1, 11.25/o-l 1-261; r, 11.26f-11.26f;l, 11.261-11.271 ;r, 11.27i (10 seconds) ;r. 11.271-11.28; 1, 11.28i-11.28f ; r, 1 1.29-11.291; 1, 11.29^-11.291; r, 1 1.30-1 1.30^; r, 11.30i-11.30i;1.11.30|-11.30i;r,11.31f-11.31f; he then revolved upon her;l, 11.32^-11.321; r, 11.33f-11.341-;r, ll.35f-ll.36; 1, 11.37-11.37|; r, 11.38i-11.38|.
Then he moved off her, when she jumped at killed and ate him.
On August 25 c?
No.
275 was introduced, but she caught and ate him too.
(2) 9 No.
271 completed her final moult on July 20, and on August 22 S^ No.
233 was dropped upon the floor at 7.28 P.^I., while she was upon the wall.
He saw her at a distance of 75 mm., but she was placed so that she could not see him, so at 7.35 I pushed her to tlie floor.
He courted and slowly approached her; she made an aggressive movement; he dodged her but continued courting.
She approached and touched him, whereupon he immediately got into copulatory position and commenced the coition.
The postures and the mode of copulation were as in the preceding case; the right palpus was employed 84 times and the left 81 times.
This copulation began at 7.38 and ended at 8.32|-, when she struggled beneath him and he cautioiLsly moved away from her, when I put him into another cage.
On August 25 the same male was put with her again, at 2.42 P.M.
He courted her steadily, though she made several jumps at him, and he even followed her up the wall still courting.
At 4.05 I was obliged to leave, and returning at 4.28 found them in copulation, which continued up to 5.03, when she struggled and he left her.
She did not attempt to kill him at first, and he followed her still courting; but about two hours afterward she killed and ate him.
(3) ?No.
278 was not fully mature.
d^No.
275 was placed with her for half an hour on July 16; they grappled, and after that remained quiet.
On July he was introduced again and began courting at 5.02, as soon as he saw her, but she ran from him.
(4) 9 No.
326 finished her final moult on July 24. d'No.
275 was placed with her on July 25 and 26, but courted for only a short while each time.
There was no courtship at all on July 30 and August 22.
There is, accordingly, in this species a decided courtship; the male differs from the female in his smaller size and in the black color of a portion of his fore-legs, and these legs (and the palpi also) are moved in a particular manner during the courtship.
Observation shows that the male recognizes the female as such at a distance of at least six inches.
The male's approach to the female is very slow, a kind of creeping, not at all similar to the vehement approach of certain other Lycosids.
The male will court immature females.
The female, if eager, gives the signal of willingness to the male by touching him lightly with her first pair of legs, when he immediately embraces.
In the observed cases, with one exception, the female killed the male at the end of the copulation.
The peculiarity of the copulation is that the right and left palpi are inserted in the epigynum in almost strict alternation, that these insertions are very brief and numerous, and that the intervals between them are markedly short.
One female copulated twice with the same male at an interval of three days.
The time duration of the longest copulation watched was 59 minutes, of the next longest 55 minutes.
Cocooning.
— $ No.
271 made a cocoon in the second week of September, carried it attached to her spinnerets (the normal way) and is still carrying it.
9 No.
273 made her cocoon during the first week of September, but dropped it from her spinnerets about the 25th of that month, and did not take it up again, although she frequently touched it; she had not bitten it open before dropping it.
The cocoons are nearly globular, white or bluish; their architecture shows them to be composed of two portions, a base and a cover, as in other spiders.
Webs.
— All the males spin irregular sheet-like webs inclined at an angle of about 45° to the floor and the wall of the cage.
One female also slowly built up an irregular horizontal web.
The other species of Lycosa observed did not make such webs, but simply short lines to attach themselves to the vertical glass walls of the cages.
Lycosa nidicola Emerton.
Care of the Young.
— Six females of this large species were kept; three of them were captured carrying cocoons, while one, after her final moult (which was like that of other Lycosids), formed the base of a cocoon upon a drop of water and oviposited upon it, but this cocoon was a failure.
The large globular cocoon is carried dependent from the spinnerets until it hatches.
The mother helps herself in supporting its weight, sometimes by resting it partially against the tarsi of her fourth pair of legs, sometimes standing with her abdomen and the third and fourth pairs of legs upon the wall of the cage, whereby the cocoon rests against the wall.
She cuts open the cocoon to allow the escape of the 3'oung, then carries the young upon her for a considerable length of time, one female for 11 days, another for 13 days, another for 14 days — longer periods than were observed in other Lycosids.
The number of young is also large ; in the two cases where they were counted they were respectively 210 and 302 in number.
The following notes may be of some interest: ?
No.
212 was seen on June 23, at 2.00 P.!M., holding her cocoon beneath her cephalothorax with her first and third pairs of legs and her palpi, and tearing its lining with her chelicera; she had then scraped away some of the superficial layer along an equatorial line, and at one or two points in this line her chelicera had penetrated to the interior.
At 2.22 the first of the spiderlings crawled out through one of these holes, and as soon as the mother felt its motion she quickly fastened the cocoon to her spinnerets and waited patiently.
But no more spiderlings emerging, she bit the cocoon again from 2.43 to 2.52, when she suspended it again to her spinnerets.
At 3.34 the second and third spiderlings crawled out upon her body, and at 3.39 the fourth.
The mother apparently divined that the young were not emerging rapidly enough, and bit the cocoon again from 3.48 to 3.55.
At 3.59 the fifth spiderling climbed upon her, at 4.03 about eight more spiderlings, and at 7.00 there were about twenty upon her.
Next day at 9.00 A.M. more young were still emerguig, and at 3.00 P.M. she dropped the cocoon (empty of young) from her spinnerets.
The young massed together upon her abdomen and cephalothorax made her appear twice her natural size ; she did not allow them to get upon her eyes, however, but brushed them away gently with her palpi.
On July 2 the first of the spiderlings left her, running down her legs to the ground, and on July 4, when I killed her, only five were left upon her; these I endeavored to rear by keeping them in separate tubes, but all of them died within a few days.
9 No.
211 was found on June 16, at 2.45 P.M., resting her cocoon (attached to her spinnerets) upon the floor; some of the young on emerging from the cocoon got upon the floor, but these quickh' climbed up the legs of the mother.
She dropped the cocoon next day, and examination showed that she had ^gnawed it along its whole circumference, but at only certain points along the line of the abrasion had holes been made to the interior cavity.
In this case, as in the preceding, the young that had left the mother's constructed a network of silken lines through the cage; possibly aeronautic lines, such as young Lycosids normally employ to carry them, with the help of the wind, away from the home of the mother.
Lycosa punctulata Hentz.
One female of this, locally rather rare, species was kept and observed from June 10 until her death on August 3.
Cocooning.
— On July 1 and 2 she was found spinning upon the floor of the cage.
On July 3, at 11.00 A.M., I found she had quite a thick sheeting over the floor and for a little distance up the sides of the cage, covering an area of about 25x65 mm.
At 1.33 P.M. on that day I found she had constructed an oval disk of white silk (cocoon base) with a diameter about equal to her body length; this base was placed upon the preUminary scaffolding in the corner, and inclined to the floor at a slight angle.
From 1.33 to 1.46 she spun a silken wall upon the margin of this base, though when finished it was barely visible to the naked eye.
She composed it of looped threads, made by uplifting her spinnerets high at each stroke.
She then stood over the centre of the base, and from 1.47 to 1.50 there fell upon the center of the base from her genital aperture a clear drop of viscid fluid, into which fell in succession a number of pale yellowish ova; a second smaller drop from 1.51 to 1.52; and from 1.52 to 1.53 five small drops in succession, each enclosing one ovum.
All the drops merged together upon the cocoon base, but the whole mass was small in proportion to her volume, and evidently she had not deposited all the ova within her since her abdomen was still quite distended.
At 1.53§ she commenced spinning the covering, with high strokes of the spinnerets laying down threads that were looped, since a second attachment of the spinnerets would be close to a first; but she placed very few of these over the egg mass, spinning mostly upon the margin of the cocoon base and even upon the foundation beyond it.
She spun very slowly, occupied most of the time in pauses, and occasionally walked about the cage.
At 2.23, when the egg was only imperfecth' covered with a thin silk layer, she loosened Avith her chelicera about a quarter of the edge of the base from its moorings.
She rested, and at 2.27 seized the covering of the egg mass, pulled it, then rested, holding it in her jaws.
From 2.35 to 2.37 she spun again upon the margin of the base, then turned about, seized the egg mass with her jaws, began to eat the eggs, and devoured them all by 3.10.
Finally, with her chelicera she tore the base completely loose, and ate up that too.
Though this cocooning was a miscarriage, due to faulty oviposition and to insufficient covering to the eggs, yet the method followed would indicate that this species normally cocoons like others of the genus.
Lycosa lepida (Keys.).
Individuals observed, males : Xo.
150, captured May 26, died early in September ; No.
200, captured June 10, died August 15; No.
201, captured June 10, died July 26.
Individuals observed, females: Xo.
183, captured June 10, died October 12; No.
193, captured June IS, moulted June IS, died October IS; No.
194, captured June 10, died July 5; Xo.
196, captured June 10, still living; No.
197, captured June 10, still living ; No.
203, captured June 10, with a cocoon, killed August 3 ; No.
214, captured June 10, with a cocoon, died in November; No.
268, captured June 27, died October 2.
Moult.
— The old skin splits along the horizontal line as in other spiders.
Mating.— c^ No.
150 was introduced to ?
9 Nos.
194, 268, 203, 193, 197 ;d' No.
200 to $ 9 Nos.
194, 197, 203, 268; c?
No.
201 to 9 9 Nos.
196, 194.
No copulation occurred in any case before or after cocooning, and all the females except two were pregnant when captured.
The following observations point to a simple courtship on the part of the male, who is more brightly colored and considerably smaller than the female: (1) 9 No.
194.
When c?
No.
201 was placed with her for the second time, he got behind her and shook his fore-legs slowly in the air, these legs held outstretched before him and elevated only slightly from the ground.
This is an action of neither aggression nor fear; aggression is evidenced by standing high upon the legs and stretching out the first pair of legs without shaking them ; fear, by holding the body low, and flexing the first pair of legs at the tibial joint back over the cephalothorax.
(2) ?
No.
196. cJ" No.
201 was put in her cage at 4.47 P.M., June 12.
At 6.00 P.M. they faced each other at a distance of about 50 mm.
; his body was flat upon the ground, and at intervals he raised his fore-legs, which were stretched out on the floor before him, and shook them tremulously in the air.
After several repetitions of this movement he approached her slowly and touched her, making a short step forward with each shaking of his legs, but she rebuffed him.
Cocooning.
— The following cases of normal cocooning were seen: (1) 9 No.
183 had been caught in a test-tube, and before she was removed to a cage she had made her cocoon there.
At 1.10 P.M., when first noticed, she had already laid her eggs upon a silken cocoon base, the diameter of which about equalled the length of her body, and was then spinning the cover by brushing the spinnerets from side to side, at the same time rotating her body over it.
From 1.21 to 1.23 she occupied herself with biting the margin of the lenticular cocoon loose from its scaffolding At 1.25 she held the cocoon beneath her cephalothorax, when she was placed in a larger bowl for better observation.
There she walked about with it attached to her spinnerets until 1.28, then held it beneath her cephalothorax again with the use of her third pair of legs, and Avhile rotating it with her chelicera and palpi she spun upon it with the abdomen bent downward.
This continued until 1.55, when she attached the now round cocoon to her spinnerets.
(2) 9 No.
196, on June 14, at 5.45 P.M., commenced spinning on the floor of the cage with many interruptions and uncertainly.
At 6.55 she commenced again in a corner of the cage, brushing her spinnerets over the floor and the wall, and turning her body sometimes from right to left and sometimes in the reverse direction.
Gradually her spinning became more regular, with fewer pauses, and she constructed a nearly circular sheet of close web elevated from the floor to the wall and with a central depression extending to the floor.
Up to 7.37 she spun upon this foundation the base of the cocoon, a white, circular, disk a little less in diameter than the length of her body, this base (like the supporting scaffolding) rising from the floor to the wall at an angle of 30°.
Then from 7.37 to 7.54 she occupied herself with making a marginal wall upon the base, and did this l^y laying down looped threads (made by high strokes of the spinnerets) ; the maximum height of this wall about equaled the diameter of her abdomen, and it was not quite vertical, but inclined slightly toward the centre.
She then stood over the base with her head toward its highest margin, and from 7.54 to 7.57 oviposited upon its centre; from her genital aperture fell first a large drop of clear, viscid substance, then a smaller drop containing one ovum, then a large drop into which fell in rapid succession 17 ova; finally a slowlyexuding, thread-like stream of the viscid substance, contained in which were ova arranged one behind the other.
All this fluid substance was kept from overflowing the base by the marginal wall.
Next, from 7.57 to 8.12, she spun a cover over the egg mass, plastering thread after thread upon it ; the cover was of less diameter than the base.
From 8.12^ to 8.17 she bit loose the margin of the cocoon, and when a cut had been made pried up the edge with her palpi.
The loosened cocoon was now of a lenticular shape, and she took it below her thorax (not holding it off the ground, it was too large for that), and revolved it in that position with her palpi, chelicera and third pair of legs ; she spun vigorously upon it so that it soon assumed the definite globular form, and only a line around it marked the point of union of the cover to the base.
The cocoon was at first white, but became bluish on contact with water.
The other cocoons made resulted in failures, though the commencement in each of the two cases observed was normal.
Thus 9 No.
196, in making her second cocoon, spun the circular base, built a marginal wall (of a height of 2 mm.)
upon it, oviposited upon it from 8.17 to 8.20 (71 ova dropping in succession into one large drop of viscid substance), and spun the cover from 8.20 to 8.24.
Then she changed the normal process, and for a minute stopped to loosen a portion of the cocoon from the ground, then spun upon the cover again from 8.27 to 8.34.
She then took the cocoon beneath her body and began spinning upon it, but the covering had been made too thin ; she was evidently puzzled by feeling the ova through it, and worked hesitatingly ; she hung the misshapen cocoon to her spinnerets, but before next morning had devoured it and the enclosed ova.
She had not been able to compensate for the initial mistake of spinning too thin a cover.
?
No.
268 started to spin upon a drop of water that I placed on the floor of the cage; I drained off the water and she ceased.
Next day I put in another drop; she first spvm over it, then oviposited on it, but the water caused the ova to disinteffrate and she finished by eating them.
The water evidently instigated her to the cocooning, yet in natural conditions these spiders do not appear at all aquatic, for I have found them on rather dry ground under stones and logs.
The number of cocoons made, and the dates, were as follows: (1) 9 No.
183: June 11, hatched July .5.
(2) ?
No.
193: July 25, a failure.
(3) ?
No.
196: June 14, hatched July 10; July 2, a failure.
Two cocoons.
(4) ?
No.
197: June 12, dropped by the mother and did not hatch; July 13, dropped also after the mother had bitten it open prematurely; August 10, dropped August 30.
Three cocoons.
(5) 9 No.
203 was caught with a cocoon that hatched July 1.
(6) 9 No.
214 was caught with a cocoon that hatched July 5.
(7) 9 No.
268: July 20, a failure.
Care of the Young.
— As in other species of the genus, the cocoon is carried by the mother attached to the spinnerets, and she bites it open to allow the young to emerge, when they get upon her body, and about a day afterward she drops the cocoon.
Sometimes, as the above list of cases shows, the mother drops the cocoon before it hatches ; in all such cases this appears to be due to the mother biting open the cocoon prematurely, and true to her instinct she drops the cocoon after opening it ; when the cocoon is opened too early, the ova do not develop further.
The mother is very tenacious of the cocoon.
I have seized a cocoon, when attached to the mother, with forceps and shaken it, with the mother, violently in the air, without dislodging her hold upon it; there is, in the case of older cocoons, a very hard and thick thread attaching them to the spinnerets.
One mother I watched when she was bending down to drink ; about half of the young upon her climbed down to the water and drank of it also, but quickly returned to her when she commenced to move away.
In changing this mother from one cage to another, a great mass of young was dislodged from her back and fell upon the floor.
Some of these young ran about and would not return to the mother when they came in contact with her, but the remainder clung together in a mass upon the floor.
The mother seemed excited, yet when she touched the mass of young she would remain by it only a short extent of time, and did not aid the young to return to her.
But next day all were upon her })ack again.
Lyoosa verisimilis Montg.
Parasites.
— The type specimen of the female of this species was kept alive some time, until she was killed by the escape of a large species of Mermis.
Three days preceding she dropped the large globular co6 coon that she was carrying attached to her spinnerets, and 6 parasitic wingless hymenoptera emerged from two circular holes in the cocoon ; they had killed all the young spiders that had been contained in it.
Prof. William H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator in the U. S. National Museum, kindly identified this parasite as Pezomachus dimidiaius Cresson (an Ichneumonid).^ Lycosa charonoides Montg.
Care of the Young.
— The type individual of this species was caught May 31 with a globular cocoon hung to her spinnerets; the cocoon was apparently newly made because it was light in color, and on the evening of the same day she held it below her and spun upon it in the manner characteristic of the genus.'
On June 15 I found the cocoon lying on the floor, with a hole made by the mother along about a third of the equator; within the cocoon were about 20 dead spiderlings, while a number of living ones were clustered upon her abdomen and one or two running upon the floor ; the young left her back gradually, some remaining upon her until June 26.
Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton.
PI.
V, figs.
8, 9.
Individuals observed, males: No.
32, captured May 4, died next day; No.
35, captured May 4, killed May 15; No.
38, captured May 5, died May 29; No.
55, captured May 6, died May 15; No.
56, captured May 6, escaped May 12; No.
59, captured May 6, killed May 19; No.
60, captured May 6, escaped May 18; No.
62, captured May 6, killed May 11; No.
64, captured May 6, died (from thirst) June 5; No.
172, captured June 1, died June 11.
Individuals observed, females: No.
33, captured May 4, died August 15; No.
54, captured May 6, died August 15; No.
57, captured May 6, still living; No.
58, captured May 6, died August 9; No.
61, captured May 6, died June 14; No.
63, captured May 6, died August 15; No.
65, captured May 6, died August 15; No.
152, captured May 26, died (from effects of parasitic Mermis) June 11; No.
177, captured June 1, escaped August 9.
Mating.
— This was studied by placing a male with a female only during the time of observation, keeping them separated at other times; a partition cage was used, or else the male was carefully dropped into the cage of the female.
This is the most abundant local Lycosid, and by collecting vigorous individuals in the spring, when the males are very numerous, and selecting those females which are not gravid, the courtship may be readily observed.
^ Prof. Ashmead, in a personal communication, states that a considerable number of parasitic hymenoptera have been reared from the eggs and cocoons of spiders, and names the genera Bieus, Aeolus, Acolvides, Polysphincta, Epiurus, Pimpla.
The advances are made by the male, and there is a distinct courtship process, which a vigorous male may maintain for two or three hours at a time with few interruptions when the female is recalcitrant.
In natural conditions a large number of individuals often occur together on a limited area of ground, such as a moist open spot in a meadow ; here probably the male does not make so prolonged a courtship, but on finding one female not eager or aggressive he probably seeks another.
The males are somewhat smaller than the females and considerably weaker, but they are also quicker, so that they can generally escape from an aggressive female.
There is a marked sexual color difference, the male being deep black and the female more brownish.
Gravid females are always hostile to males, and once that such a female has made a determined rush at a male he usually ceases to court her, or when he recommences does so hesitatingly.
The male recognizes a female as such immediately on touch ; whether he recognizes her by sight alone I cannot tell.
In courting a fleeing female the male appears to follow her mainly by sight, but even then he does not appear to find her by sight unless she is moving ; often in his excited march for her he will run right past her without seeing her.
But when one of his legs touches a part of her, he immediately reacts by quickly moving back a short distance and, after a brief interval, commences his courting motions with great vigor.
These motions he will also continue sometimes for a considerable period after the female has been removed from the cage.
In a double cage with a transparent glass partition, a male in one compartment and a female in the other, I have not seen a male court a female, though he certainly sees her through the partition; probably, then, it is touch of a female that impels him to courting activity.
The courtship motions are as follows: The male stands with his body well elevated above the ground (an attitude that a female takes only when she is aggressive) on his three posterior pairs of legs, his head higher than his abdomen, so that the long axis of his body describes an angle of 30°-40° ^\^th the surface of the ground.
He waves his palp upward in the air {i.e., straightening them out before his head) and flexes them outward, from one to three times, then draws his body slightly backward and downward, rapidly waving in the air the outstretched palpi and first pair of legs, and spasmodically shaking the whole body with the violence of the movement.
The vehemence and to some extent the attitudes reminds one forcibly of a small terrier barking at a cat.
The movement of the palpi exhibits most clearly their relatively huge, black terminal joints.
When the male is timid, or not very eager, he may wave only his palpi, and these slowly and alternately instead of together.
The male repeats these motions several times, usually becoming more vehement each time, then moves a step nearer the female, repeats them again, moves nearer again, so that in a short time his outstretched shaking fore-legs come in contact with the female.
A virgin female usually flees before him before accepting him, he eagerly following and repeating his motions, even when he is not facing her.
A female who has been fertilized and is pregnant, first menaces him by slowly uplifting and straightening out her first pair of legs toward him ; and if this does not suffice to make him desist, she jumps at him when he comes too close.
In the latter case the male frequently escapes by leaping over the female.
The male seems the very incarnation of violent passion, and his whole body shakes with it; only when the female is so aggressive as to shake him, does he show distinct fear and cease his motions; and if a male has been so cowed by a female, and is immediately placed with another female, he will at first avoid the latter also, this being a good example of memory.
The following data will show the length of time of such courtship, the male in each case having been removed from the female at the end of the period of observation, and it being understood that copulations were enacted only Avhen stated.
9 No.
33.
Put in d^ No.
32 for nearly two hours on May 4, no courtship, o' No.
38 for an hour next day, no courtship.
cJ* No.
38 in the evening of May 5, courtship for one hour.
May 6, c?
No.
38, courtship for half an hour in the morning, but none in the evening.
cJ^ No.
38, courtship of one hour on May 7.
The same d^ would not court on the following day, though she walked over him twice (evidently an invitation to copulation) ; immediately afterward o' No.
35 was put in and courted for half an hour, then repeated it at intervals.
]\Iay 11, O" No.
35 was put in for the whole evening, but there was no courtship, although she displayed no hostility; nor would he court on ]\Iay 12.
On May 12 d^ No.
64 courted with few interruptions from 1.40 to 3.00 P.M., and from 4.00 to 4.35.
May 13 and 14 d" No.
64 courted intermittently.
May 15 he courted actively from 8.00 to 10.15 P.M., again on May 16 from 3.00 to 6.00 P.M., on May 17 from 7.20 to 10.00 P.M., on May 18 from 7.00 to 10.00 P.M., on May 19 from 2.00 to 4.00 P.M. and from 8.15 to 11.15 P.M., on May 24 for two hours in the morning, on May 25 two hours in the afternoon, May 28 for about an hour, May 31 for more than an hour.
After that this female became still more aggressive, and made her cocoon on June 10; she had evidently been fertilized before her capture.
Data could also be given, and I have them in full, for the other females kept, but this case is sufficient to show the persistence of the male in his courtship, and the preference of the female for particular males.
The process of copulation was seen only twice, namely 9 No.
63 with d^ Nos.
62 and 173.
May 8 I placed c?
No.
63 in her cage at 5.00 P.M., and at 5.15 he commenced his courtship and continued it until 6.00, pursuing her about.
About 6.05 they came face to face, and remained so motionless until 6.24.
Then he slowly reached out his first pair of legs and touched her abdomen, when she depressed her body to the floor (otherwise in her usual attitude) ; he walked over her head from in front and took a position upon her so that his head was pointed in the reverse direction of hers, his chelicera immediately above the pedicel of her abdomen, while the pedicel of his was above her head.
The female with her head almost touching the floor, abdomen slightly deflected upward, and legs flexed rather closely to the body; the male embracing her closely around the cephalothorax with his second and third pairs of legs, the feet of the other pairs resting on the ground.
This embrace was maintained and the female remained motionless through the whole process, from 6.25 to 6.34.
The palpi were applied to the epigynum one at a time, as follows: The long axis of the male made a small angle with that of the female (both seen directly from above), so that his head region came to lie a little to one side of as well as above the pedicel of her abdomen.
When his left side was thus turned toward the left side of her body, both his palpi were thrown over on that side of her also, but only the left palpus (the one closest to her) was applied; when his right side was inclined toward her right side, both his palpi were also placed on that side of her, but only the right one applied.
When he used the right palpus she flexed her abdomen on its long axis so as to bring the right epigynal aperture more dorsal; when he used the left palpus, she would similarly flex the left side of her abdomen dorsad.
One palpus would be apphed to the epigynum several times in succession, after each application being withdrawn and worked with his chelicera ; then the other palpus would be similarly used, after he had inclined his body toward her other side.
The palpi were thus alternated several times.
At 6.34 the female rose suddenly, assumed a hostile attitude, and the male ran off.
On June 1 I introduced cJ* No.
173 at 2.38 P.M. to the same female.
He started immediately to court; she for a minute held her first pair of legs elevated in the air (attitude of guard and hostility), then depressed them and also bent her head to the floor (copulation attitude), but he discontinued courtship, and she moved away.
At 2.42 he courted again, and she again depressed her head to the ground (her fourth pair of legs stretched out behind her, her other legs flexed to her sides) at a distance of half an inch from him ; he then faced her for two minutes without courting, but he recommenced his courting at 2.44, and at 2.45 walked upon and embraced her, in the attitude previously described.
The left palpus was then applied to the epigynum 6 times from 2.45 to 2.46, then the right palpus (on the right side of her body) 18 times from 2.46 to 2.52^.
On each application the palpus was first rubbed against her epigynum, and when inserted a large clear sac, an evaginated portion of the palpus, swelled up and slowly (in 20 to 25 seconds) collapsed ; after its collapse he withdrew the palpus and rubbed it against his chelicera for 2 or 3 seconds, then applied it again to the epigynum.
At 2.52^ the female rose quickly, shook him off, and stood in hostile attitude, repelling several further attempts to copulate.
No oviposition intervened between these two acts of copulation.
Cocooning.
— This process was observed several times.
In captivity it takes place at night, generally in the hours between 9.00 P.M. and midnight; though the earliest preliminary spinning frequently begins some 24 or more hours before.
The following case is a good illustration of the method as observed in glass cages without earth : 9 No.
54, on May 19, at 9.20 P.M., was first seen to be spinning, fastening threads (inclined at an angle of about 45°) from one vertical wall to the floor, and from the opposite vertical wall to the floor; at each wall was then a line of such parallel threads about a quarter of an inch long.
This was a rather slow process, she taking often several seconds to attach each thread, and sometimes pausing to rest for a quarter of a minute.
At 9.50 she started spinning the base of the cocoon on the scaffolding of lines placed against the right wall, not again returning to that on the left wall.
The circular disk constituting the "base" of the cocoon was made by spinning upon a circular area of the scaffolding, at about the middle level of the latter; it was made discoidal in form by the female pressing the tips of her palpi upon one edge of the area, spinning upon the opposite edge, then rotating her body on its middle point as an axis.
This was first done very slowly, but at 9.59 she began spinning more regularl}^, brushing her spinnerets (without elevating them) back and forth over the area, at the same time rotating her body, so that gradually a well-marked white disk was laid down upon the scaffolding, its diameter not quite equalling the length of her body; the scaffolding around the disk served as a support for her feet.
The making of this base continued until 10.24.
Then she stood above it with her head directed toward its upper end, and deposited upon the centre of the base from her genital aperture a large viscid drop of a transparent fluid; and into this drop, the upper surface of which still adhered to her body while its lower surface rested on the silken disk, there fell in succession about.
13 large ova, easily seen by their yellow color within the viscid drop.
This discharge of drop and ova did not exceed two minutes.
Then at 10.26, before the upper surface of the drop had become fully loosened from her genital aperture, she commenced rapidly spinning across the drop, brushing the spinnerets from side to side and occasionally rotating the position of the body until she covered it with an evenly thick coating of white silk.
This coating compressed the drop to the form of a flattened hemisphere; the supporting base being still flat, and quite a broad margin of it not covered by the upper covering of the cocoon.
At 10.40 she commenced to bite the cocoon loose from the scaffolding, taking about 4 minutes in the process; when completely loosened it had the form of a biconvex lens.
She then seized and held it beneath her cephalothorax with her third pair of legs, which like a pair of axles were first applied to its rounded sides, and revolved it by pressing on its edge with her palpi.
While doing so, she held her abdomen bent vertically downward, so as to bring the spinnerets against the edge (equator) of the cocoon, and by spinning cemented down the overlapping margin of the base of the cocoon to its cover ; it will be recalled that the covering of the cocoon was of less diameter than the base.
Gradually and slowly the cocoon was rotated in other directions also, still held below the cephalothorax above the floor, the extended spinnerets brushing back and forth across its surface.
At 10.50 the cocoon was observed to have changed from a glistening white to a lead-blue color (its final color is dark blue or dark gray) ; this may be produced by a difference in the silk, or perhaps by a secretion from the mouth.
At 11.12, when I ceased observations, she was still busy spinning upon the cocoon.
It had now become much more nearly globular, the definitive shape, and trace of a line around its greatest diameter was all left to show that it had been formed of two halves cemented together.
The first cocoon of ?
No.
57 was made on May 12.
At 4.50 P.M. she was found working upon the discoidal base (there had been no trace of it less than an hour before), and continued until 5.06.
Then followed the oviposition, lasting not quite 2 minutes, in exactly the same manner as in the preceding case, except that 33 or 34 oysl were discharged into the viscid drop.
The ova sank one by one into this drop so as gradually to fill it and increase its size, but by virtue of its viscidity it still retained its globular form and surrounded them all.
At 5.08 she started spinning the cover, finished it at 5.20, and in the time from 5.21 to 5.25 cut the cocoon loose from its scaffolding by tearing the surrounding threads with her chelicera.
She then brought the cocoon below her cephalothorax and spun upon it; at 5.28 suspended it from her spinnerets and ran about, and at 5.34 spun upon it again.
The fact that her cage had been kept in a dark drawer might account for the cocooning in the afternoon.
For her second cocoon (finished July 3) she commenced the scaffolding on July 2.
On July 3, at 9.50 P.M., I found her in process of finishing the circular base, and here I observed an action that I had probably overlooked in the case of the other cocoons ; whenthe white discoidal base was clearly outlined upon the scaffolding she spun, upon its margin only, long curled threads, each made by attaching her spinnerets to one point of the margin, then elevating them and attaching them again close to the first point of attachment; thus she made a marginal wall, just sufficiently elevated to be seen with the naked eye.
From 10.01 to 10.06 she worked upon this wall.
Then the oviposition followed upon the centre of the base from 10.07 to 10.10^.
From then until 10.20 she started covering the egg mass with high uplif tings of the spinnerets, thus laying down loops of threads, and from 10.20 to 10.24 with brushing movements of the spinnerets.
From 10.24 to 10.
26^ she occupied herself in biting the cocoon loose.
Then she held the cocoon below her and spun upon it until 11.07, when she attached it to her spinnerets.
9 No.
63 I found at 7.15 P.M., June 7, laying the covering upon the egg mass.
She cut the cocoon loose at 7.23, at 7.24 walked about with it attached to her spinnerets, but at 7.26 held it below her again and spun upon it until 7.59.
At 8.04 she attached it to her spinnerets again for a couple of minutes, then commenced to spin upon it again.
9 No.
61 was unsuccessful in her cocooning; at 10.30 P.M., May 11, I found her holding beneath her cephalothorax a misshapen object, bowl-shaped and of a bluish color, evidently a miscarried cocoon; she tried in vain for a long time to spin upon it, and finally dropped it.
Thus the nearly globular cocoon is formed from two separate pieces.
The number of cocoons, and the dates of their making, were as follows : (1) 9 No.
33: June 10 (did not hatch as it had not been cut).
(2) 9 No.
54: May 19, hatched June 7; a second cocoon hatched July 9.
(3) $ No.
57: May 12, hatched June 2; July 2, hatched July 19.
(4) 9 No.
61: May 9, an abnormal cocoon.
(5) ?
No.
63: June 7, she cut it open but the young never hatched, for she had probably opened it too soon ; July 25, an irregularly shaped cocoon, which she destroyed by chewing on the same day.
(6) 9 No.
65: May 9, hatched Jmie 1; June 10 or 11, hatched July 1.
(7) 9 No.
58: May 18, hatched June 7; July 12, a verj^ small cocoon which she ate.
(8) 9 No.
177: June 4, eaten by the mother; June 29, eaten by the mother.
Thus none of my captives made more than two cocoons.
Care of the Young.
— The cocoons are carried suspended from the spinnerets, and generally kept well elevated above the ground, the spinnerets being firmly fastened to one of the rounded sides.
The mother bites open the cocoon to allow the escape of the young, and unless it is so opened the young cannot get out of it.
This biting of the cocoon was observed in several individuals; sometimes it lasts through several days, for only a short time each day; in one case the mother started to cut the cocoon a full week before the young emerged; the following is a typical case: 9 No.
65 on May 30 was first observed cutting her cocoon.
On May 31, at 9.10 P.M., she was cutting it again.
The cocoon was held beneath her cephalothorax by the first and third pairs of legs and by the abdomen deflected downward, in such a position that the plane of its largest circumference (its equator) coincided with her median plane.
With her chelicera she slowly tore away the thick outer covering along the line of the equator, her palpi aiding, and at the same time her legs slowly rotated the cocoon.
This cutting is not a continuous process, but interrupted by frequent short rests as if she were noticing movements of the young.
At 10.22 she suspended the cocoon from her spinnerets, and cut again from 10.35 to 10.39.
The cut was now very deep, so that through it the spiderlings could be seen moving within the cocoon.
Next morning several of the young had crawled out upon her body, and at midday she finally dropped the cocoon, although there were still young within it.
Some mothers open their cocoons with a cut extending along almost the whole line of the equator, and once the young are upon her she pays no more attention to the discarded cocoon.
It is interesting to note (and this is also the case in the other Lycosids examined by me, perhaps with the exception of Ocyale) that the cocoon is always cut open along the line where the cover had previously been cemented to the base of the cocoon; this equatorial line is always a little rougher than the remaining surface of the cocoon, and perhaps this roughness impels her to a further roughening.
The young, on emerging from the cocoon, hang on to the body of the mother for some time before leaving her, and leave in succession, the more vigorous first.
?
No.
54 carried her young from June 7 to June 13 ; 9 No.
57 from June 2 to June 9; ?
No.
58 from June 7 to June 12 ; 9 No.
65 from June 1 to June 3.
Thus in the observed cases the time varies from 2 to 7 days.
Feedmg.
— As in other Lycosids this species kills the prey by grasping and biting it, and rarely accepts dead insects; and not only sucks the juices of the victim but chews it up.
It also drinks water frequently.
Parasites.
— ^Two large individuals of a species of Mermis (Nematode) escaped from ?
No.
152.
Pardosa scita Montg.
This species is much less abundant than P. nigripalpis, but still fairly common on some dry, open grounds.
It runs and leaps very rapidly, and is difficult to catch.
I have made but few observations upon it.
Moult.
— As in other Lycosids.
Mating.
— Only once was the beginning of a courtship seen.
The male touched the female, then waved his palpi in the air in the manner of P. nigripalpis, but for only a few seconds, and did not repeat the movement.
Afterward whenever he approached her, she would wave her first pair of legs in the air and tap his with hers.
Parasites.
— -A species of Mermis.
Pirata liber Montg.
This is the common local species of the genus, and frequents marshy ground.
It dies very quickly from thirst and is with difficulty kept alive in confinement.
A number of individuals were watched, but the following were the only observations worth recording.
Mating.
— A male placed in the cage of the female touched her, went ofT, then returning with his first pair of legs outstretched and in tremulous vibration he touched her with them, when she jumped at him.
This might have been a courting movement on the part of the male, or else a cautious reconnaissance.
Cocooning.
— On June 2, at 1.30 P.M., I found a female had spun a scaffolding of silk threads from the floor to the wall of the cage, and upon it a circular disk of white silk ; the latter was evidently the base of the cocoon.
I unfortunatelv placed a drop of water near her on the glass floor of the cage.
She then left the cocoon base, spun upon the surface of the water drop, evidently mistaking it for the silken base, and ultimately oviposited upon it.
Later she raised and held the egg mass beneath her cephalothorax, holding it there with her palpi, chelicera, third pair of legs, and with her abdomen bent vertically downward, and endeavored to spin upon it in that position.
But there was only a thin covering of silk on only one surface of the egg mass, the cocoon came to grief, and she ultimately ate it up.
The drop of water had disturbed the regular course of the cocooning.
In the state of nature this species carries its round cocoon attached to the spinnerets.
Ocyale undata (Hentz).
PI.
IV, fig.
1.
Care for the Youiig.
— This species, as Hentz and Emerton have described, constructs a web-nest for its young in the top of small plants.
I kept several females in order to learn this habit more in detail, and the following notes relate to ?
No.
235, captured June 22.
This spider was caught upon the ground in a wood, laboriously moving along with its large spherical cocoon.
Then, and for the first evening after her capture, she held her cocoon beneath her body with the aid of her chelicera, palpi and with her abdomen pressed against it; but unlike other Lycosids, her spinnerets were not attached to it.
That night she spun a network of lines in the cage, and next morning was hanging upside down, hanging to the web lines with the claws of her first and fourth pairs of legs, tightly embracing the cocoon with her other legs, her chelicera and her palpi, in the position shown by the sketch.
Only once up to the time of hatching did she leave the cocoon hanging in the web, and then in order to clean herself; at all other times she continued to hold it tightly, and refused flies and beetles put in as food.
She occasionally climbed about with the cocoon, spinning new lines in the cage, until quite a thick network was made; and on July 9 I found the cocoon, bitten open by the mother, hvmg high in the web, and numerous newly hatched spiderlings distributed over the web.
She spun so many new lines that she herself finally became enmeshed in them, and on July 18 I cleared them away.
On the early morning of July 22 she made a second cocoon when there were no nest lines in the cage; on August 9 she fastened it to the roof of the cage, cut it open with her jaws so that the young emerged, and in the succeeding days built a web-nest around it.
From these few observations we may conclude that the cocoon is made first, that the mother most carefully holds it until the time for hatching, when she cuts it open and then spins the ^^^b-nest around it This method of holding the cocoon, and of guardmg the >oung upon a nest instead of carrying upon her body, is shared by our loca Dolomedes urinator Hentz, but is different from the usage of the other Lycosid genera.
These web-nests are generally found on he top ot plants along the sides of wooded streams, and have a decided resemblance to the nests of Lepidopterous larva?.
Tegenaria derhami Scop.
Individuals observed, males: No.
23, captured May 2 escaped May 22; No 74 captured May 13, died (from starvation) June 5; No.
80, captured May 14, kd ed May 27; No' 178, captured June 5, died July 24 No.
218, captured W 9 died abmxt September 1; No 221, captured June 19, died July b.
No.
-o-, cap tured June 26, killed (by ^ No.
25) the same day.
Ind^riduals observed, females: No.
22, captured May 2, died Ma> 21 No.
5, captured May 2, died August 4; No.
75, captured May 13, died August 19 nT.
79, captured May 14, died September 1; No 84, capture^ May 15 kill d May 25; No.
117, captured May 24, died about September 10 No.
118 /^^P^^;^^^ May 24 escaped June 5; No.
219, captured June 19, died in December, No.
220, captured June 19, died the first week of September.
Moulting.
-Tl^is was seen only once; the moulted skin was split in the horizontal plane as in other spiders.
Mating.-The mode of observation was to put a male upon the web of the female, and the male was in most cases left with her and not removed, since removal would necessitate a breaking of the web The male is of about the same size and strength as the female, and the two generally live peacefuUy together.
Sometimes the male is the more aggressive and secures all the food placed in the cage, but more generally the female lords it a little over the male.
The following are my main observations on the approach of the male and the mode of copulation: , o .i (1) On to the web of 9 No.
22 I placed d^ No.
23 on May 3, at 2.41 P M They touched each other a few times, then remained motionless facing each other from 2.49 to 3.02.
Then she moved toward him and followed him slowly, she finally touched him and he moved away Then both remained immovable until 4.00, when I removed him On May 3 I put him in again at 9.15 P.M.; he touched her, she instantly turned and faced him, their fore-legs almost in contact.
They remained in this position until 9.29, he tapping the web a few times with his palpi, while she shook the web vigorously with her left fore-leg for a couple of seconds.
At 9.30 he rubbed his palpi vigorously with his fore-legs, then approached and copulated, this act lasting only 5 seconds.
Their exact position in the act was not determined.
I could only observe that he approached head on with one palpus outstretched, they mutually grasping each other with their first pair of legs, both in their usual position on the upper surface of the web.
She then moved away.
At 9.35 he walked over her without copulating.
At 10.25 she approached and tapped him several times with her left fore-leg, and again at 11.02.
I watched them continuously up to 12.27, then left him with her.
Up to May 21, when she died (he securing most of the food given them), I watched them many times, saw him on some occasions approaching her with shaking palpi, but observed no further copulation.
(2) To ?
No.
25, after she had made 3 cocoons, I introduced d^ No.
225; she chased and killed him.
(3) 9 No.
79 had made 3 cocoons, when c?
No.
178 w^as introduced on June 19, at 9.15 P.M.
He moved toward her very slowly, a step of a centimeter each time, slowly and cautiously tapping the web with his palpi; he took about 9 minutes to cross a distance of 2 inches, and then when he had almost reached her, she rushed at him and drove him away.
At 9.35 he again approached cautiously, and at 9.50 rushed at her, but she repelled him.
At 9.57 he advanced again, at 10.10 making a cpiick rush at her and almost succeeding in inserting an extended palpus in her epigynum, but she escaped from him.
No copulation was seen up to 11.25.
(4) 9 No.
117 made her first cocoon on June 10.
On June 19, at 9.40, c?
No, 221 was placed on her web.
At first she chased him about, then both became quiet.
At 10.01 he quickly ran at her, and copulated with his right palpus from 10.02 to 10.03, for ten minutes after which she chased him about the cage.
The copulatory position was the same as that of ?
No.
75 X cJ" No.
218.
(5) ?
No.
75, after making 2 cocoons, mated with d"' No.
218 on June 19.
He was introduced at 9.08 P.M., and shortly after she chased him.
At 10.00 he made a sudden move toward her and succeeded in copulation; he inserted his right palpus into her epigynum for 1 minute, his left for 15 seconds, his right again for a minute and a half.
Position: the male braced himself firmly on all legs upon the web, and reached his palpus straight out before him and pressed it into the epigyniim with considerable energy; the female faced him also on the upper surface of the web (just within the funnel), lying partly on one side with her legs drawn up, but not closely, to the sides of her body.
During the act the male pushed the female backward by his force.
When the palpus was inserted there was seen a large dilated sac evaginated from the palpal organ.
The female then ran off, and the male proceeded to the process of sperm-induction.
In these copulations the male accordingly first approaches slowly, the female also sometimes making advances on her part, and concludes with a rush at the female, and if he is quicker than she he succeeds in inserting his palpus.
The fact that females copulate after cocooning makes it appear probable that a copulation may precede the making of each cocoon.
Sperm-induction.
— 6^ No.
218 was watched during this act, which occurred immediately after his copulation with $ No.
75 (concluded at 10.03 P.M.).
He first spun across an area of nearly a square inch on the upper surface of the web, then limited himself to a small area just at the entrance of the tunnel of the web.
Here, by very rapid brushing of the spinnerets from side to side, he constructed a delicate silk sheeting placed at an acute angle to the surface of the nearly horizontal web, the posterior and lateral edges of this sheeting attached to the web, but its anterior edge unattached and elevated like an arch.
From side to side this sheeting was not quite so long as the length of his body, and half this distance from Ijefore backw^ard.
He then stood over it, so that the ventral surface of his abdomen almost touched the superior surface of the sheeting, his cephalothorax above the anterior (free) edge of it, and his spinnerets at its posterior edge.
At 10.21^ P.M. he moved his abdomen slightly forward, discharged from his genital aperture a minute drop of sperm upon the superior surface of the sheeting at its free edge, and from that moment until 10.28 he was engaged in taking this sperm into his palpal organs.
This he did by pressing the ventral (posterior) surface of each palpal organ on the under surface of the sheeting, just at the point where the drop of sperm had been placed on its upper surface; one palpus he held thus, with occasional shaking, for 10 to 15 seconds, then the other, until the whole of the drop was inducted; and each palpus when not so busied he held in front of his cephalothorax and shook it in the air, as if to force the semen deeper into the organ.
From 10.27 until 10.34, just after the completion of this process, he remained in the same position, but quietly and with no further discharge of semen upon the sheeting.
Then he left the sheeting, worked his palpi a short while with his chelicera, then remained quiet until 11.10 when I ceased the observations.
The spirit is always willing to watch longer, but continuous observation with a hand lens, and the necessity of keeping quiet in a cramped position for fear of startling the object, becomes trying to the flesh.
A curious act which I observed d^ No.
23 to do I cannot explain, but it may possibly have some connection with the mating.
On May 3 he was upon the web of 9 No.
22.
At 9.50 P.M., after his copulation with her (described above), he commenced to tear a hole in the horizontal portion of her web, tearing with his palpi and putting the torn shreds in his jaws.
He thus made an oblong rectangular hole of about the length of his body, and as he continued to tear the portion just in front of him, he swung his spinnerets over the posterior part of the hole, and so spun it over with very fine transverse lines.
This act lasted until 10.04, and only about one-quarter of the hole in the web had been mended over.
Though I watched him closely up to 12.27 A.M., he did not return to this hole.
Cocooning.
— This was observed several times, and was as follows : 9 No.
79 was observed at 8.00 A.M., June 19, spinning over a circular area (of greater diameter than her own length) on the vertical glass wall just above the edge of the web.
She ceased until 8.09, owing to a jar to the cage, then commenced again.
Very regularly and actively, without interruption, she spun up to 8.23, placing her feet at the periphery of the silken disk ("base" of the cocoon), and revolving her body over it, turning sometimes from right to left and sometimes in the reverse direction, all the while beating the tips of her palpi upon the disk.
During the earlier part of the process the outstretched spinnerets were brushed from side to side ; but in the latter part she lifted the abdomen high after each application, thus pulling out long threads which she fastened close to their first point of attachment, so that the inmost (most lately made) part of the disk was made of curled loops, and so was of very soft consistency.
Thus the base of the cocoon, somewhat thickest in the centre, was formed.
At 8.23 she stood quietly over this base, then oviposited upon it, the oviposition lasting a little more than one minute.
From her genital aperture exuded a large clear drop of viscid fluid and fell upon the centre of the base, its upper surface still connected with her genital aperture, and at the same time the yellowish ova fell into and were enveloped by this drop.
Then she immediately begaif spinning the cover of the cocoon over the egg mass.
From 8.24| to 8.35 she spun a loose covering of silken loops by elevating the spinnerets after each application (just as in the making of the base), and from 8.35 to 8.44 she spun a denser covering by brushing the spinnerets from side to side.
Finally she alternated the spinning upon the cocoon itself, with spinning attachment lines from it to web.
?
No.
25 made her first cocoon on the horizontal surface of her web, apparently not spinning a special base.
?
No.
75 made her second cocoon upon the surface of the web, and after spinning a discoidal base oviposited upon it at 7.41 A.M.; she occupied the time from 7.42 to 8.00 in spinning the cover.
?
No.
220 spun her cocoon in the same manner as did No.
79.
One female, after making her cocoon at the angle of the wall and floor of the cage, spun over it several thin, concentric, arched lamellae of silk, evidently a protection.
In a few cases the female attaches foreign particles, as the remains of insects, to the surface of the cocoons, but this was not done with the majority of the cocoons.
The cocoons, even those of the same spider, are placed in most diverse positions, some horizontally and some vertically, some upon the web and some away from it.
The number of cocoons made and the dates of construction were as follows: (1) $No.
25: May 31 (hatched June 9); May 29; June 10 or 11 (hatched July 5) ; June 20 (hatched July 16) ; July 2 (did not hatch) ; July 9 (hatched July 31) ; July 21 (not all the eggs hatched) ; August 1 (hatched).
A total of 8 cocoons made by an unusually small female.
(2) 9 No.
75 : May 23 (hatched June 14) ; June 7 (destroyed by the mother); July 5 (hatched July 30); July 17 (hatched August 2).
A total of 5 cocoons.
(3) ?
No.
79: May 24 (hatched June 19) ; June 7 (hatched July 5) ; June 19 (hatched July 12) ; June 29 (hatched July 19) ; July 7 (did not hatch); July 17 (hatched August 9); August 1 (hatched); August 21 (hatched).
A total of 8 cocoons.
(4) 9 No.
117: June 10 (hatched July 6); June 26 (none of the ova developed); July 3 (hatched July 23); July 12 (hatched July 29); July 27 (hatched August 20) ; August 8 (hatched) ; August 28 (hatched September 29).
A total of 7 cocoons.
(5) 9 No.
118: May 31 (hatched June 5).
(6) 9 No.
219: July 4 (hatched July 24); July 28 (hatched August 21); August 21 (hatched).
A total of 3 cocoons.
(7) ?
No.
220: June 29 (hatched July 27) ; July 16 (hatched August 2); July 30 (hatched August 22); August 21 (hatched).
A total of 4 cocoons.
The differences in the time of hatching are probably due as much to differences in the thickness of the cocoons as to any such factor as temperature.
Care of the Young.
— I have seen no evidences that the mother guards in any way either her cocoons or her young.
The young make their own way out of the cocoon, making an opening or openings at the margin where the cover is joined to the base; that the mother does not tear the cocoon open for them is proved by the cases Avhere the yoimg emerge at a point that is inaccessible to the mother.
Feeding.
— This is rather a timid species, the great protection afforded by the tubular portion of the web compensating for want of strength, and they rarely attack prey as large as themselves, and usually avoid much smaller spiders.
The prey is killed by biting, and after being sucked dry is usually left hanging in the web.
The males especially are frequently eager for water.
Agalena naevia Walck.
PI.
IV, fig.
4.
Individuals observed, males: No.
72, captured May 11, moulted May 24, June 7, July 3, July 28, died September 30 (starvation) ; No.
303, captured July 9, moulted August 2, killed by ^ No.
243, August 20.
Individuals observed, females: No.
73, captured May 11, moulted May 13, 25, June 7, 29, July 13, August 5, still living; No.
206, captured June 16, moulted June 29, July 27, died in December; No.
243, captured June 22, moulted July 3, July 28, died in November.
Moult.— The first moult of ?
No.
73 commenced at 11.08 P.M., she hanging with her spinnerets and feet attached to the roof of the cage.
The old skin spht into a dorsal and a ventral piece, separated by a horizontal break along the sides of the abdomen, along the sides of the cephalothorax above the legs and below the eyes.
She slowly fell out of the split exuvia, with the help of slight convulsive movements of the body and legs.
Her legs were completely freed at 11.15, and at 11.23 she hung head down attached to the exuvia only by the spinnerets.
At 11.39 she climbed into the web.
The new skin is at first much lighter than it becomes on exposure to the air.
Mating.
— The two cases seen were these : (1) 9 No.
73. cJ^No.
72 was placed upon her web on August 21, at 10.20 A.^I.
Both were immovable up to 12.00, when I left them.
On my return at 12.40 his fore-legs were touching hers.
At 12.47 he shook his body.
At 1.20 she flexed her legs close to her sides, he being then upon the web half an inch above her.
At 1.26 he seized her from above, his head pointing toward her spinnerets, and tapped her abdomen several times with his first pair of legs, she motionless.
At 1.36 he left her; she remained inert until 1.46, then moved somewhat, 7 when he quickly turned and faced her and she became again motionless with her legs flexed closely.
At 2.06 he pulled her toward and beneath liim, his head facing her spinnerets and just above the pedicel of her abdomen; at 2.08 turned her partially on her side, then applied his left palpus from 2.08 until about 5.00, then applied his right palpus on her other side from 5.00 until 9.40; the number of insertions of each palpus was not noted.
At 9.40 he stood over her.
At 9.46 she moved slightly for the first time, when he embraced her again and tapped her abdomen rapidly with his fore-legs, got her agaui into copulatory attitude and inserted his left palpus from 9.502to 9.54.
He then withdrew this palpus and cleaned it vigorously with his chelicera until 9.58, when he left her.
She quickly rose and followed him, but he escaped.
(2) ?
No.
243. d^No.
303 was dropped upon her web on August 19, at 3.14 P.M. At 3.34 he placed his first pair of legs upon hers, while he was higher in the web than she.
At 3.37 she turned away, then faced him again, and at 3.40 he moved still nearer.
At 3.46 he suddenly grasped her with his legs, and, she flexing her legs to her sides and becoming motionless, he carried her an inch away from the place.
At 3.49 he left her still lying inert and walked about, evidently seeking a place on the web favorable for copulation, returning to and standing over her half a minute later.
At 3.51^ he seized two of her legs with his chelicera, carried her about, then dropped her.
At 3.54 she turned around.
At 3.59 he seized her again, placing himself over her with his head directed obliquely toward her spinnerets, she lying partially on one side with her legs flexed, and commenced the copulation with his left palpus.
The length of time of each insertion of this palpus was as foUows: 3.59-4.19^, 4.20-4.30, 4.31-4.37^, 4.39-4.46^ 4.474.56, 4.57-5.03, 5.03f-5.08i, 5.09-5.14, 5.15-5.22, 5.23-5.31, 5.31f5.4H, 5.42^-5.49^, 5.50-5.55, 5.56-6.01, 6.01|-6.09, 6.09J-6.14, 6.141-6.24, 6.24^6.28, 6.29-6.36, 6.36^-6.56^, 6.57-7.10^ 7.11-7.21, 7.22-7.30i, 7.31-7.40i, 7.41^-7.50^, 7.51-7.58^, 7.591-8.06^, 8.07-8.16, 8.17-8.36^, 8.38-8.39, 8.40-8.54.
He inserted the palpus each time by extending it downward along the left side of her abdomen to her epigynum, and inserting the spirally wound process of the palpal organ for its whole length; when inserted, a large sac connected with the ventro-median side of the palpal organ swelled up.
The palpus was withdrawn after this sac had collapsed, and the palpal organ drawn through the chehcera before the next insertion.
At 8.55 the male changed his position upon her, so as to bring his long axis parallel to hers, lifted her 1 cm.
backward, then stood quietly over her.
At 8.58 he brought his head obhqiiely over her right side, then apphed the right palpus, in the same manner as he had the left, as follows : 8.58^8.59^ 9.00-9.12, 9.13-9.19, 9.19^-9.24, 9.25-9.30, 9.30|-9.34i, 9.35-9.39, 9.40-9.45, 9.46-9.49^, 9.50-9.56, 9.56^-10.02, 10.02*-10.06, 10.06^10.16, 10.16^-10.23, 10.23^-10.29^, 10.30^-10.39^, 10.40-10.45, 10.45^-10.55, 10.56-11.18, 11.18^-11.31, 11.32-11.46^ 11.47-11.59.
Then for very weariness I ceased watching and left them in copula, and next morning found the female eating the male.
The female was immovable throughout the whole act, her sternum with its ventral surface downward, but her abdomen twisted on its long axis so as to flex the epigynum up to meet the palpus of the male.
His right palpus was used upon her right side, his left palpus upon her left side.
The copulation lasted in the first of these cases for 7 hovirs and 47 minutes; in the second case it was watched for exactly eight hours, but lasted longer.
In both cases the approach and behavior of the males was alike, and both used the left palpus first.
There was nothing in the behavior of the males to indicate a courtship ; there was simply a cautious approach of the male, and after he had found no sign of hostility on the part of the female he quickly seized her, and she was absolutely submissive in his grasp.
When he first grasps her he taps her abdomen with his first pair of legs, perhaps an act of subjugation.
Not one of the females have made cocoons up to the time of this writing (October 5).
Dictyna volupis Keys.
PL V, fig.
C Numbers of individuals of this species were collected on May 26 upon vines of Ampelopsis and English ivy gi-owing upon the walls of my old homestead, near West Chester, Pa.
They had constructed their webs upon the upper surface of the leaves of these plants, and upon most of the webs a male and female were found together, and a number of these were found then in copulation.
This species is easily kept in captivity, and on account of their small size I kept them in test-tubes with the mouth loosely plugged with cotton, placing a male and female together in each tube, when they made the webs conjointly; males and females caught together were kept together.
Individuals observed, males: No.
130, caught on web of $ No.
131, died June 15; No.
132, caught on web of ?
No.
132, died June 24; No.
134, caught on web of ^ No.
135, died in June; No.
136, caught on web of $ No.
137, died June 16; No.
138, caught on web of $ No.
139, died June 3; No.
140, caught on web of Q No.
141, died June 18; No.
142, caught on web of ?
No.
143, died July 2 ; No.
144, caught on web of $ No.
145, died June 3; No.
146, caught on web of 9 No.
147, died in June; No.
148, caught on web of ?
No.
149, died June 7.
Individuals observed, female-'^: No.
131, escaped June 14; No.
1.33, escaped 100 procp:eding.s of the academy of [Jan.. July 2; Xo.
135, died early in September; No.
137, died early in September; No.
139, escaped June 3; No.
141, died about September 1; No.
143, died August 6; No.
145, still living; No.
147, died about September 28; No.
149, died in September.
Mating.
— The following were the observed cases worthy of note: (1) 9 No.
133. d'No.
132 was introduced at 12.30 P.M., May 27.
Most of the time he spent in spinning upon the web.
but sometimes approached and touched her, when she either moved away or else shook her legs tremulously.
At 3.40 I was obliged to leave, and on my return at 4.33 found them in copula against the bottom of the test-tube.
She lay upon her left side wdth her legs flexed close to her body, her abdomen and cephalothorax in one line.
He lay upon his right side with his face pressed against the ventral surface of her cephalothorax and his ventral surface turned toward hers, but not parallel with it, the axes of their abdomens diverging at an angle of mor.> than 45°; his first two pairs of legs embraced hers closely, his posterior pairs were directed backward and braced against the web.
This male had lost his right palpus; his left he extended backward along the ventral surface of her abdomen so as to hold the palpal organ inserted in her epigynum.
This copulation lasted without interruption up to 5.32.
Then after she had made two cocoons, on June 4 and 9 respectively, the same male was found in copulation again at 12.59, continuing so up to 1.48, when he left her, and though he returned several times she met him with open jaws, except once when she approached him with closed jaws, shaking her flexed first pair of legs.
Then he proceeded to charge his palpus with sperm.
(2) ?
No.
135. d'No.
134 was found at 7.35 P.M., May 27, in copulation; the embrace was as in the preceding case, except that their bodies were directed upward.
Only the right palpus was used, and that was kept continuously inserted ; a large evaginated sac connected with this palpal organ dilated and contracted 10-11 times a minute, each dilation of it accompanied by a slight jerk of his abdomen.
He suddenly left her at 8.09, worked his palpi through his jaws, shortly after fed upon a gnat, and no further copulation was observed up to 10.20.
On June 13, after she had made three cocoons, they were seen again in copulatory attitude, but his palpi were not inserted.
(3) 9 No.
141. d'No.
140 was embracing her at 2.00 P.M., May 31, but his palpi, though pressed against her abdomen, were not inserted.
The right palpus was inserted continuously from 2.15 to 3.06.
He then moved a few millimeters away, and on approaching her again she rushed at him with opened jaws and chased him the length of the test-tube.
No further copulation was observed up to 4.20.
On June 5, at 12.55 P.M., she having made no cocoon in the meantime, they were again copulating, he using his left palpus continuously up to 2.10, then his right from 2.10 to 3.13, after which he ran to the opposite end of the test-tube and cleaned his palpi with his chelicera.
(4) 9 No.
147.
May 26, at 2.00 P.M., c?No.
146 approached and seized her, then inserted his left palpus continuously from 2.04 to 3.02, then at 3.02 his right and kept it inserted up to 4.20, when I was obliged to stop observations; they were separated on my return at 5.25.
(5) ?No.
149.
At 8.14 P.M:, I saw d'No.
148 come face to face with her, then, each of them tapping upon the web with the first two pairs of legs, they moved backward and forward slowly.
This lasted only two minutes, when they both became cjuiet half an inch apart; it was repeated again for a short period at 8.54.
On June 1 they were seen in copulation at 4.52 P.M., he inserting his left palpus, and again on June 4, at 11.35 A.jM., continuing up to 11.50, he using his left palpus, and afterward he proceeded to the sperm-induction.
In this species the male is shaped quite different from the female, and is a little larger (an unusual condition among spiders).
There is no true courtship on the part of the male, for his tapping upon the web with his fore-legs is an act w'hich the female also does.
More than one copulation may precede the making of a cocoon; and copulation may follow cocooning.
The longest time a pair was seen in continuous copulation was 2 hours and 18 minutes, the left palpus here being employed for 1 hour and 15 minutes, then the right for 1 hour and 3 minutes.
Sperm-induction.
— This was seen twice: (1) d^No.
132 terminated his second copulation with 9 No.
133 at 1.35 P.M. After that I watched him continuously with a lens.
From 2.00 to 2.19 he alternated spinning upon various portions of the web with cleaning his palpi with his chelicera.
At 2.20 he commenced spinning over a small area, the diameter of which was not larger than the length of his al^domen, and ceased at 2.22.
Half a minute later he bent his abdomen downward and discharged from his genital aperture a minute drop of sperm, which appeared to adhere to the delicate web beneath him, and at the same moment reached his left palpus (his right was missing) downward and backward Vjeneath his cephalothorax and took this drop into the palpal organ.
He then remained quiet up to 1.42, when I stopped observations, occasionally shaking his palpus in the air, but discharging no more sperm.
(2) cJ'Xo.
148, on June 4, ceased his copulation with ?
No.
149 at 11.50 A.M. About 4 minutes afterward he started spinning on the glass wall, not using his calamistra, and made a close but scarcely visible silk sheeting at one place.
This continued up to 12.05 P.M., when he stood over it, shaking his palpi and rubbing them against his chelicera.
At 12.10 a minute whitish globule of sperm fell from his genital aperture upon the silk sheeting, rolled forward upon it (i.e., toward his head), and was immediately taken into one of his palpal organs, and that palpus was then shaken repeatedly many times.
After that he remained in the same position, flexing his palpi and pressing them against the silk sheeting.
But there was no further discharge of semen, though I watched him continuously with a lens.
He spun again in another place from 12.20 to 12.27, then went off to feed upon a fly.
The peculiarity of the sperm-induction in this species is its rapidity, and the fact that the palpi are not placed beneath the silk layer made to catch the drop of sperm.
Cocooning.
— This process was not seen, most of the cocoons having been made in the early morning.
Only the conclusion of it was noticed in a couple of cases, i.e., the finishing of the cover of the cocoon; silk was applied that had been drawn out by the calamistra from the cribrellum.
And female No.
131 was seen standing over a flat circular disk of silk one day at 12.00 P.M., and sometime before the next day she oviposited upon it and spun another disk as a cover ; this observation shows that this species, as other spiders, makes her cocoon of a base and a cover.
The number of cocoons made, and their dates, were as follows : (1) 9 No.
131 : June 4, June 7.
2 cocoons.
(2) ?No.
133: June 4 (hatched June 23); June 9; June 17; June 20.
4 cocoons.
(3) ?
No.
135: June 8 (hatched June 22); June 9; June 13; July 5; July 8; July 9; July 11; July 15; July 31.
9 cocoons.
(4) ?No.
137: June 10 or 11 (hatched June 24); July 3; August 3; August 19.
4 cocoons.
(5) 9 No.
141: July 3; July 7; July 13; July 26.
4 cocoons.
(6) 9 No.
143: July 4; July 24.
2 cocoons.
(7) 9 No.
145: July 10; July 15; July 24; July 30; August 11.
5 cocoons.
(8) 9 No.
147: June 4 (hatched June 18); June 6 or 7; June 17 (hatched July 3); June 22; July 4; July 18; July 27.
7 cocoons.
(9) ?No.
149: June 14 (hatched June 29); July 16; July 19; July 23; July 29; August 1.
6 cocoons.
The quick succession of these cocoons will be noticed, sometimes cocoons being made upon consecutive days.
This is because only a few eggs (perhaps never more than 12 or 15) are laid in any one cocoon.
The base of the cocoon is a flat disk, generally broader than the more or less arched cover; the cocoons are pure white.
In the test-tubes most of them were placed against the glass, others built upon the web; sometimes they were arranged in rows, one placed upon another.
Care of the Young.
— The mother appears not to remain by her cocoons nor to guard them in any way.
The young make their own way out of the cocoons, emerging at one point between the base and the cover.
Feeding.
— Relatively to its size this species is the most forward in attack, attacking large insects, such as blue-bottle flies, which many larger spiders flee from.
It evidently trusts to the great strength of the web, in which large insects become helplessly entangled.
The little spider rushes immediately at the entangled victim, seizes hold of it with his jaws without spinning upon it, and keeps his hold though violently shaken by the prey.
Theridium tepidariorum C. Koch.
PL IV, fig.
2.
Individuals observed, males: No.
7, captured April 29, killed May 19; No.
8, captured April 29, moulted the same day, escaped the same night; No.
13, captured May 1, escaped May 3; No.
19, captured; May 2, killed May 16; No.
20, captured May 2, killed by $ No.
17 May 18; No.
71, captured May 8, killed May 23; No.
77, captured May 13, moulted May 15, died (of starvation probably) June 3 ; No.
81, captured May 14, killed May 18; No.
115, captured May 24, killed next day; No.
116, captured May 24, killed next day; No.
123, captured May 26, died June 7; No.
125, captured May 26, died June 11; No.
126, captured May 26; No.
127, captured May 26, died June 6; No.
155, captured May 30, died June 29; No.
217, captured June 19, died June 29; No.
254, captured June 26, killed (by $ No.
253) July 10; No.
319, captured July 14, died August 6.
Individuals observed, females: No.
6, captured April 29, died June 19; No.
16, captured April 29, died about September 1 ; No.
17, captured April 29, moulted May 9, killed May 30; No.
18, captured May 2, died (apparently starvation) June 2; No.
26, captured May 2, killed May 8; No.
76, captured May 13, died (starvation) June 3; No.
124, captured (on the same web with (^ No.
123) May 26, died July 3; No.
129, captured May 26, died July 29; No.
154, captured May 30, died about September 1; No.
156, captured May 30, died July 23; No.
202, captured June 11, died July 29; No.
253, captured June 26, died about September 1 .
Moulting.
— This was observed in one cJ' only; the process lasted about half an hour, the spider slowly falHng out of its old skin, and the legs were quite colorless immediately after the moult.
Mating.
— The method of observation was to keep a female in a cage until she had made a web there, then to drop a o^, handling him as gently as possible, upon her web.
The introductory steps of the mating are as often made by the female as by the male, and she often shows quite an insatiable eagerness, even sometimes leaving food to approach the male.
As soon as the male commences to move upon her web she recognizes him as a male of her own species, and, when she is eager, commences immediately to signal to him, both spiders being on the lower surface of the web and upside down (the usual position).
The female hangs to the web with the third and fourth pairs of legs, and shakes the longer second and first pairs vigorously and spasmodically in the air (when those legs are not attached to web lines), otherwise with them she shakes web lines to which they are hooked.
This "signalling" is a sign of eagerness on the part of the female, and so far as I have observed she makes it at no other time than when she is eager and notices the approach of a male of her own species.
There are individual differences in the mode of signalling, as well as differences in accord with the degree of eagerness of the female ; sometimes a female signals without moving from her original position, sometimes with the signalling she moves by short steps toward the male.
When she is not eager she either remains motionless, or else rushes hostilely toward the male as at an object of prey; in both cases the male makes no advances, and when she is markedly aggressive he escapes by dropping from the web.
The whole attitude of the male is that of combined timidity and eagerness ; he is much smaller than the female and upon a foreign web, and usually acts with great caution.
Very freciuently he will climb about the web for a greater or longer period, the female all the while signaling, before he approaches her; often he approaches and touches her several times and each time rapidly withdraws again ; more rarely, the male responds quickly to the signalling of the female and copulates within a minute of time.
Sometimes the male, while moving about on the web, on coming across a break in it, will pause to mend the break before approaching the female.
The male shows his eagerness by a spasmodic jerking of his abdomen.
He tests the eagerness of the female, and finds her position on the web, by grasping with the claws of his first pair of feet the web lines that she is shaking by her signalling, and by drawing these web lines taut he feels her movements all the more distinctly; he approaches gradually nearer her, guided by her signalling, and finally makes a short rush toward her.
In this species the courtship, if the expression of eagerness may be so called, comes evidently much more from the female than from the male; and that the male is not able to satisfy the female is shown by the fact that the latter continues her signalling for some time after the copulation.
The mode of sexual recognition is entirely by touch, b}^ the tension of the web lines.
The copulation I have observed many times.
Both individuals being on the lower surface of the w^eb (in small cages the female spinning a horizontal web about half-way between the floor and the roof), on the close approach of the male the female hangs to the web by the claws of her third and fourth pairs of legs, her other legs hanging unattached, so that her cephalothorax lies beneath her abdomen.
The male places himself parallel to her, his ventral surface opposite hers, his cephalothorax also above her abdomen, his position in the web higher so that liis head is opposite her epigynum, embracing her closely with his second and third, sometimes also with the fourth pair of legs, while his long first pair of legs beat about in the air.
His palpi are applied to her epigynum generally both at the same time ; sometimes only one palpus is employed during one copulation.
The length of time of the application of the palpi is rarely 15 seconds, usually less than 10 seconds, and all this time the female remains perfectly motionless.
The copulation completed, the male hurries away, or else falls down out of the web and remains for some seconds motionless, his energies evidently spent.
After copulating he cleans his palpi with his jaws.
Sometimes the male has difficulty in inserting his palpi into the epigynal orifices, and tries ineffectively many times while the female remains motionless.
The copulation is so soon over that I have not been able to determine the exact action of the palpi during it.
This species copulates very frequently, and there are several matings preceding the making of each cocoon.
The female appears always eager except in the time of full pregnancy, and may mate with numerous males, as the following data show : (1) ?
No.
6 copulated with c?No.
7 at 7.53 P.M., April 29, and this c?
showing no more desire was removed at 9.25.
Put him with her April 30, copulation at 1.43 P.M. Again on April 30, at 11.12 P.M. Again at 7.44 P.M., April 30, half a minute after he was put in.
On May 3 I put him with her again for two hours, but no copulation.
On May 4, copulation at 9.20 A.M., five minutes after he was put in; and again at 8.39 P.M. and 8.43 P.M. May 5, put him in again at 7.59 P.M., copulation within half a minute, and a second one at 8.01.
On May 6, when I put him upon her web, she acted hostilely.
May 8. copulation at 5.24 P.M., half a minute after his introduction.
On May 11 she was hostile to him, as also on May 13; at this date she was very large with eggs, which she laid May 19.
May 24 I introduced c?No.
115 at 4.51 P.M., he copulated immediately; he was removed at 4.05, and c?No.
116 placed with her, copulating at 4.07^ and 4.08.
May 25 I put ind'No.
116 from 10.10 to 11.00 A.M., but he avoided her.
though she made amatory signals; and cJ^No.
115 behaved similarly on the evening of the same day.
May 27, d^No.
125 copulated at 2.50 and 2.53 ; and the same 6" at 8.43 and 8.45 P.M., May 28.
On May 28 put in d^No.
128, copulation at 8.57^ and 8.58 P.M. May 29, put in d^No.
125, copulations at 6.00, 6.01, 6.02 P.M.; and he copulated with her on June 1, at 5.30^ and 5.31 P.M. June 2, d^No.
126 was placed in her cage, but he showed no eagerness and was removed at 9.25 P.M. ; then d^No.
125 was put in, and copulation followed at 9.32^.
June 30, put in d^No.
125, but no copulation ensued, although she was eager.
June 17, put ind^No.
215 at 11.00 A.M., and two copulations followed within 3 minutes.
(A total of 27 observed copulations.)
(2) ?
No.
16 copulated with d" No.
13 at 7.55, 7.56, 7.56+, 7.58, 8.00 and 8.04^ P.M., on April 29, the d^ after each copulation moving half an inch away from her and drawing his palpi through his jaws.
May 4 I introduced d^No.
19 from 7.35 to 9.40 P.M., but there was no copulation.
On May 5, d'No.
19 copulated at 8.14, 8.18 and 8.19 P.M. ; and the next day at 7.39 P.M., a minute after his introduction.
On May 8 d^No.
19 copulated with her at 5.33 and 5.37 P.M.; and on May 13 at 4.22 and 4.23 P.M. On May 14 I introduced d'No.
7, on May 15 d'No.
19, on May 16 d^No.
19, but she was hostile on each occasion (she oviposited May 25).
On May 25, at 10.10 A.M., just after the completion of the cocoon, d^No.
115 was introduced; she first rushed at him, then held herself in copulating attitude, then became again hostile.
May 27 I introduced d'No.
127 at 3.10 P.M., she rushed at him and started to enshroud him, but when he touched her with his legs she ceased, and copulation followed at 3.11 and 3.12.
May 28, d''No.
127 was put in at 9.08 P.M., copulations followed at 9.09, 9.09^, 9.10.
May 29, d'No.
127 copulated at 5.27 P.M. ; but when d" No.
128 was put in his place at 5.30, she chased him hostilely.
June 1 I put in d^No.
127, but she acted hostilely (perhaps from hunger this time, as she had not been fed for three days).
June 2 I introduced d* No.
127 while she was feeding, and she chased him from the web.
June 7, d^No.
182 was introduced, but though she signalled eagerly he did not mate.
June 15 (a cocoon was built by her the preceding day) I introduced d^ No.
182, copulation ensued at 7.25 and 7.27 P.M. (A total of 22 observed copulations.)
(3) ?
No.
IS was put into the cage of cJ'No.
8 on M&y 2, but she chased him; then cJ' No.
19 was introduced and copulated with her at 11.27, 11.29, 11.
29^ and 11.31 A.M. Two Theridiids of a smaller species were put in at 12.00 M., so that five spiders were now together.
9 No.
18 sometimes would make amatory advances to c^No.
8, but he (evidently not mature) fled from her.
Several times she came into contact with (?No.
19, but after a few excited advances he left her each time.
She always acted hostilely to the individuals of the smaller species.
She copulated with 6^ No.
19 at 12.42; this 6^ later made a rush at the smaller d^ No.
8.
The latter subsequently escaped, and I removed c^No.
19 on May 4.
On May 8 a freshly caught large d^was introduced, but she seemed frightened by him.
On May 9 she copulated with c?No.
71 at 7.55 P.M.; he was left in her cage until May 23, and copulations were noticed at 9.15 P.M., May 13, and 9.15 P.M., May 15.
(A total of 8 copulations observed.)
(4) ?
No.
76. cJ^ No.
77 was introduced on May 13, but she remained immovable, and was hostile to him next day, as she was to cJ'No.
85 on May 15, and to d'No.
77 on May 16.
May 18, d'No.
77 copulated at 6.59 and 6.59^ P.M. (Only 2 copulations.)
(5) ?
No.
124 copulated with d' No.
123 on May 27, at 2.17, 2.22, 2.27 P.M., besides some unsuccessful attempts.
The same d^made several unsuccessful attempts on May 28, and one successful one.
May 29 I introduced him while she was feeding, she left her prey and signalled vigorously, copulation at 5.49 P.M. May 30, copulations with the same cJ^at 4.44 and 4.49 P.M.; and at 4.55 P.M. d^No.
155 was introduced, but he would not answer her amatory signals.
On June 1 d^No.
123 made protracted but unsuccessful attempts to copulate at 5.43, 5.46, 5.47 and 5.47^ P.M. June 2 she copulated with d'No.
128 at 10.28^, 10.29 and 10.32 P.M. June 8 I put in d'No.
128 again at 1.36 P.M., while she was eating a beetle; she signalled immediatel}' while remaining close to the beetle, he went toward her and mistakenly tried to copulate with the enshrouded beetle, but ultimately copulated with her at 1.40 and 1.42, June 12 I put in c^No.
128 again, copulations followed at 8.59 and 9.16 P.M.; I left them together, and next morning found she had eaten him .
(A total of 23 copulations observed , of which a number were unsuccessful.)
(6) 9 No.
129 copulated with d" No.
123 at 8.31 P.M., May 28; later he attempted to insert his palpi but in vain, she then became aggressive.
June 2 she copulated with c?No.
155 at 8.37 and 8.43 P.M. June 7, with d^No.
155, at 8.24 P.M., half a minute after his introduction.
June 15, with the same d*, at 7.23 V.'Sl.
(A total of 5 observed copulations.)
(7) $ No.
156 copulated withe?
No.
123 at 12.10.
12.12, 12.
12^, 12.13 P.M., June 3.
June 19, three times with d^No.
217.
July 15, at 3.30 P.M., with (5^ No.
319.
(A total of 9 observed copulations.)
These observations show that while the copulations are of brief duration, generally less than 10 seconds, they are frequently repeated.
The number must be larger in natural conditions than my figures show for caged individuals, since in order to count the number I was obliged to remove the males during those periods when I could not watch them.
Even when there are one or more cocoons in her web the female mates as freely as before oviposition, and their presence does not in any way seem to retard her mating impulses.
Sperm-induction.
— The following was the only case observed.
d'No.
319, after copulating with $ No.
156 at 3.30 P.M. on July 15, was watched carefully with the hope of seeing this process.
'He left the female and went to a corner where he remained quiet, hanging with the ventral surface^ uppermost and the cephalothorax a little lower than the abdomen.
At 4.35 P.M. he flexed his abdomen slightly on its pedicel so as to elevate its apex, deposited from his genital aperture a small drop of sperm upon a line of the web, then applied the jialpal organs alternately to this drop.
This process continued until 4.39 P.M., when he was driven away from the place by the approach of the female.
The droplet of sperm had been only slightly diminished in amount, so that probably the induction into the palpal organs takes a much larger time.
I watched him for half an hour more; for a while he shook his palpi slightly in the air, but ceased this action and did not emit any more sperm.
!
Cocooning.
— The brown ovoid or subglobular cocoons are very familiar objects in barns and cellars where this species is most freC}uently found.
In captivity they make their cocoons usually in the early morning, completing them before 8.30 AM., in one case as late as 10.00 A.M.
The process is as follows: 9 No.
16 was observed commencing her first cocoon at 8.15 A.M., May 25.
She was making a fluffy ball of loosely curled white silk, barely a third the diameter of the finished cocoon, suspended by a thread from the roof of the cage.
She worked by hanging in the web with her first pair of legs, using the legs of the fourth pair in alternate action to pull out from her spinnerets and apply to the silken mass the white thread, and occasionally helping with the third pair of legs.
At 8.23 J she placed her epigynum close to the lower surface of the silken ball, and there issued from her genital aperture a large, yellowish, viscid drop of fluid in which ova could be indistinctly seen ; this drop was not very transparent, so that I could not determine whether the drop was first exuded and then the ova rolled into it, or whether they were discharged together, but appearances were more in favor of the last supposition.
This drop was very viscid and of thick consistency, holding a spherical shape and enclosing the ova, and adhering firmly to the silken ball.
At 8.27 she completely freed herself from the drop, and then commenced to spin over it.
This was accomplished by hanging with the first and second pair of legs from the web, the legs of the fourth pair in alternate use applying the thread to the surface of the drop ; while the third pair of legs and the palpi were employed in concerted action so as to revolve the whole mass on its suspending silken thread.
The spinnerets at this stage were not applied directly to the cocoon, From 8.27 until 8.55 she was on the left side of the cocoon, revolving it slowly from right to left; from 8.55 to 8.58 on the right side, then turning it in the opposite direction; from 8.58 until 9.00 on the left side of it, revolving it again from right to left.
At this time the cocoon was of nearly its final size, almost spherical, its diameter a little greater than the length of her body.
The egg mass and the original silken ball were completely covered and hidden by closely matted brownish silk.
From 9.00 until 9.17 she crawled slowly over its surface, pressing against it with the tips of her palpi used alternately, evidently to mat down and smooth the whole, the feet being used simply to hold on with.
At 9.17 she started applying new anchoring threads to the cocoon, this process continuing until 9.25; this was done by applying the spinnerets directly to the cocoon, then carrying each thread so fastened to an adjacent part of the web; about 15-20 such supporting threads, attached to different parts of the cocoon, were made.
She rested until 10.05, then made a few more supporting lines.
9 No.
202 likewise commenced cocooning by making a ball of curled threads, as did No.
16, her cephalothorax placed above her abdomen during the process.
This continued up to 8.28 A.M., when she held her epigynal aperture against the lower surface of the ball and oviposited upon it at that point; the oviposition lasted from 8.28 to 8.31, the ova coming slowly out of the genital aperture one at a time and included in a viscid drop.
At 8.32^ she commenced spinning again, covering first the lower surface of the mass of ova, then the sides, the cocoon becoming regular in form by her revolving it.
This continued until 9.25 without interruption, when she stopped spinning, and instead slowly revolved the cocoon (now brown in color) and kneaded its surface with her palpi; this continued until 9.45, when she bit loose certain web lines around the cocoon, and fastened new supporting lines to it.
9 No.
154, after making 3 normal cocoons, all suspended in her web, made a mistake in the construction of her fourth one.
On July 24, at 8.13 A.M., I found her finishing the base (flviffy ball) of the fourth cocoon; but owing to some accident this was not a rounded mass of silk, but a hollow cone hung from its apex by a thick thread ; the form had probably become changed by her weight upon it.
From 8.20 until 8.23 she clung to this base, pressing her epigynum several times against its lower opening, and from 8.23 to 8.24 she oviposited upon it.
But her weight upon the silken base had gradually unraveled the latter, so that it becoming pulled out, the egg mass sank with it to the floor, where all adhered to some dead flies.
From 8.24 until 8.40 she made several ineffectual attempts to raise it into the web, then she left it and went to cocoon No.
3, spun a cap of silk first around its lower surface, then upon its sides, then kneaded this new covering with her palpal tips.
Evidently she had the impression that she was finishing the cocoon already begun, and seemed to have forgotten the neglected egg mass.
At 10.05 she returned to the latter and fed on the eggs, probably confusing them with the dead flies to which they adhered ; at 10.10 she pulled excitedly at the neglected base, as if trying to raise it, for 6 minutes, but then left it on the floor and did not return to it again.
Thus she had not been able to rectify the misshapen base of the cocoon, and under the impulse to make a covering had made this covering around an already finished cocoon.
In all these cocoonings, then, a base of a spherical mass of loosel}' curled silk is first formed, the ova (included within a viscid drop of fluid) deposited upon its lower side, then the whole covered with silk, finally this covering kneaded mth the ends of the palpi.
The reason why the external surface of the cocoon is brown in color I cannot say ; possibly the silk secreted last maybe different chemically — i.e., proceed from different spinning tubes.
In one case a complete cocoon was made without oviposition.
A succession of cocoons are formed by the same individual, the number of those made by my captives with the dates of th(:ir construction being as follows : (1) $ No.
6: May 19 (the ova did not develop).
(2) 9 No.
16 : May 25 (hatched June 28) ; June 14 (hatched) ; July 7 (eggs did not develop); July 14 (eggs did not develop); July 24 (hatched); July 31 (only a few of the eggs hatched); August 21 (hatched).
7 cocoons in all.
(3) Q No.
129: June 2 (hatched June 14); June 24.
2 cocoons.
(4) 9 No.
154 : June 3 (hatched June 15) ; June 8; June 24 (hatched) ; July 24 (this was the incompleted cocoon described above, the eggs shriveled up); August 6 (eggs did not develop); August 15 (only a few of the ova hatched) ; September 1 (hatched).
A total of 7 cocoons.
(5) ?
No.
156: June 28 (this cocoon contained no ova).
(6) 9 No.
202: June 14 (hatched June 28); June 24 (hatched July 8) ; July 3 (hatched July 14) ; July 12.
A total of 4 cocoons.
(7) 9 No.
204: July 14, the ova after a few days were shaken out of this cocoon into a test-tube to see if they would develop, and they all hatched on June 26.
(8) 9 No.
253: July 24 (hatched August 4); July .30; August 6; August 16; August 27.
A total of 5 cocoons.
Probably the rapidity in the succession of the cocoons is directly dependent upon the richness of the food supply.
The time of hatching would be dependent, among other factors such as temperature, upon the thickness of the cocoon covering through which the young have to escape.
Care of the Young.
— There seems to be solicitude for neither the cocoons nor the young, though the mother will not eat the latter.
The mother does not guard the cocoons, and she stays near them simply because they are generally placed in that highest portion of the web where she is accustomed to dwell.
Sometimes on the introduction of a fly, the mother will enshroud it alongside of a cocoon, and after sucking it dry, will cut it, with the cocoon, loose from the web; such fallen cocoons are not lifted again into the web.
The young, on hatching, move in the direction of the strongest light, whereas mature individuals avoid the light ; this instinct would serve to scatter them from the maternal home.
Feeding.
— Living prey is recognized entirely by its pulling upon the web lines; and this species is one of the boldest of our local spiders, attacking without jiesitation insects and spiders much larger than itself.
That is, the females do, but the males are much more timid.
A rush is made toward the struggling insect, a line of silk attached to it, and then the spider, hanging by her first pair of legs, applies the issuing silk thread to the victim's surface by the very rapid application of the three last pairs of legs.
Not until the victim is closely enshrouded does the spider bite it, and she enshrouds just up to that point when the victim is rendered motionless by the envelope of silk.
Often the enshrouded prey is carried to another part of the web to be eaten ; and after being sucked dry is bitten loose from the web and allowed to fall out of it.
Teutana triangulosa Walck.
This is locally quite a common species in houses, but much less abundant than Theridium tepidariorum.
Tlie following individuals were kept in captivity: cJ* No.
173, captured June 4, killed by Q No.
70, June 19; 9 No.
70, captured May 8, killed by accident August 15; ?
No.
153, captured May 28, died July 22; ?
No.
176, captured June 5, still living.
Mating.
— Four different males of Theridium tepidariorum were placed upon the web of 9 No.
70, but she was hostile to each.
On three different occasions cj' No.
173, of her own species, was placed upon her web; she signalled to him by pulling upon the web lines, shaking her first pair of legs, but he avoided and was finally eaten by her.
Her mode of signalling was like that of Theridium tepidariorum.
Cocooning.
— This process I saw only once.
9 No.
153 was seen at 9.05 A.M., June 15, to have spun a small ball composed of looped threads suspended in the web; she continued to add to it until 9.10, holding to the lower surface of the ball ("base" of the cocoon) with her ventral surface turned toward it, raising her spinnerets to apply them to the ball, dropping them, then raising them again for another application, the length of the "stroke" accounting for the looseness of the threads.
At 9.10 she placed her genital aperture close to the lower surface of the silken ball, and deposited there a globular, viscid mass enveloping ova; this oviposition lasted just half a minvite.
Then she immediately began spinning over the egg mass, laying down long threads upon it, making the covering spherical by revolving her body around the cocoon, whereby she first supported herself by the surrounding web lines, later by hanging to the cocoon itself.
She stopped spinning at 9.21.
The cocoons of this species are snowy white, spherical, and peculiar in that they are so loosely constructed that the yellowish egg mass may be seen through them.
In natural position the cocoons are hung high in the web, generally attached to some object (such as a board) that rpofs over the web; in captivity some of the cocoons were attached to the roof of the cage in conformity with this habit, but as often they are placed lower in the web.
In natural conditions, also, the cocoons are generally placed close together, in that part of the web where the spider spends most of her time.
The number of cocoons made by my captives, and the dates, were as follows : (1) 9 No.
70: May 21, June 3, 15, July IS, 26, August 2, 13.
A total of 7 cocoons.
(2) $No.
153: June 2 (hatched June 27), June 8 (hatched August 14), June 15 (hatched July 17).
A total of 3 cocoons.
(3) 9 No.
176: June 15, 26 (hatched July 16), July 10 (hatched July 30), 16, 27, 31, August 5, 15, 21, 28.
A total of 10 cocoons.
Care of Young, Feeding Habits.
— I found no indications of maternal guarding of the cocoons or young, but the mother appears indifferent to both.
It is the habit of this species, after sucking a victim dry, to cut it loose from the web, and at such times a cocoon is sometimes cut loose also, and then not raised again into the web.
This species is very courageous and rushes at large flies, quickly enshrouding them with silk, which is applied with the fourth pair of legs ; sometimes the struggling victim chances to be in contact with a cocoon, and then the spider frequently enshrouds both together.
The young cut their own way out of the cocoons.
Steatoda marmorata (Hentz).
One male and five females were kept in cages.
Mating.
— d^ No.
46 was placed upon the web of a female, both remained motionless for a while, then she killed him.
Another female killed an introduced male of S. borealis (Hentz), Cocooning.
— This was seen only once, and only the end of the process observed.
At 7.30 A.M., May 28, I found that a female had oviposited upon a mass of silk, and was then engaged in spinning over it.
The spider held to the cocoon with her feet, and spun upon it (not using the legs to apply the thread) by attaching the spinnerets at one point, elevating them, and applying them again close to the first point of attachment, thus forming looped threads; in one minute I counted 22 such applications of the spinnerets.
The spider in spinning slowly rotates around the cocoon.
The cocoon is suspended in the web, white in color, spherical and rather loosely made.
In no case were more than 2 cocoons made.
Feeding Habits.
— This species is relatively very powerful and courageous, and quickly overcomes its victims by discharging upon them a thread that is remarkably viscid and tenacious; minute viscid drops can be seen upon this thread with the naked eye.
This is a process of enshrouding that consists, not in WTapping the victim in threads, but rather in pouring out the very sticky secretion upon it.
The spider stands upon her first two pairs of legs with her posterior end toward the object of prey, and applies the viscid thread to the latter with her other legs.
8 Linyphia clathrata Westr.
Moult.
— At 6.40 P.M., May 7, I dropped a male of this species on to the floor of a cage, and after a few minutes he fell upon his left side and commenced to moult.
His palpi and all four pairs of legs were held straight at right angles to his ventral surface.
The whole process lasted somewhat less than five minutes.
The old skin split by a horizontal break, just below the eyes anteriorly, and on the sides just above the legs and along the sides of the abdomen; thus it opened in two pieces, a dorsal and ventral, which remained connected together by a narrow §trip close to the spinnerets.
His repeated jerking flexions of the cephalothorax gradually freed first his cephalothorax, then his legs and abdomen.
After the moult he rose to his legs, but was unable to walk until the expiration of 16 minutes.
Pholcus phalangioides Fues-sl.
PL IV, fig.
3.
Individuals observed, males: No.
87, captured May 16 on the web of $ No.
86, killed by 9 No.
82, May 27; No.
88, captured May 17, killed by female No.
12 the same day; No.
175, captured June 5, died June 7; No.
180, captured June 7, escaped June 16; No.
245, captured June 23, died June 26.
Individuals observed, females: No.
9, captured April 29, still living; No.
12, captured April 29, died August 15; No.
15, captured May 1, moulted May 24, still living; No.
82, captured May 15, moulted May 22, still living; No.
86, captured May 16 (on the same web with cJ* No.
87), killed May 31, and immature at death; No.
174 captured June 5 (with a cocoon), died July 5; No.
179, captured June 7. died June 25 (from starvation) ; No.
181, captured June 7, died August 7.
Mating.
— The following data include the more important observations : (1) ?
No.
9.
On June 5, at 12.49 P.M., after she had been well fed, 6^ No.
175 was placed on her web.
He first remained quiet, then touched her with his legs; at 12.56 she reached toward him and he fell from the web.
At 1.06 he climbed into the web, and she moved toward him.
At 1.25 he hung below her and touched her fore-legs with his, when she drew her legs away, he continuing to stretch out his first pair of legs toward her.
She had in the meanwhile drawn up to herself a former enshrouded victim, and this intervened between them when, at 1.43, he tried to embrace her, so that he removed it and touched her head with his chehcera.
She hung perfectly motionless in her usual position, her abdomen above her cephalothorax and directed vertically upward.
The position of his body was the same, but his legs were outside of hers.
At 1.47 he inserted both palpi at once, and hung to her by them, his weight puUing her abdomen into the horizontal plane.
The position of the two in copula was then as follows : The female with her abdomen horizontal and ventral surface down, her cephalothorax flexed at an angle downward; thee?
below her, his cephalothorax about vertical and his head almost touching the ventral surface of her abdomen at the anterior end of the latter, his abdomen flexed at more than a right angle with his cephalothorax ; the long axis of his abdomen thus made a wide angle with the long axis of hers, like a V. Thus they continued motionless until 2,19, when he dropped to the floor, and when he attempted to climb into the web again she chased him so vigorously that I removed him.
On June 7, at 7.55 P.M., c?
No.
180 was put in; they embraced in copulatory attitude for a minute, but she moved her legs, and he left her and went to another part of the web.
At 8.17 she tried to enshroud him, so I separated them.
On June 14 I put in cJ^ No.
180 again, at 4.36 P.M. ; he remained quiet for six minutes, then climbed up and touched her, whereupon she made her shaking motion.
He then hung beneath her, shaking the web very gently by a swaying of the whole body, she responding in a similar way.
At 4.47 she rushed at him, and I removed him.
(2) 9 No.
12 killed and ate mature 6" No.
88 on May 17, and an immature c?
on May 24, and made her first cocoon on May 27.
On June 23, c^No.
245 was introduced at 12.12 P.M. (the cocoon had hatched on June 15).
At 12.21 he started to move with long pauses, while she was above him in the web and testing his movements by draAving the web Hues taut.
At 12.28 he inserted his palpi in her epigynum for a second, then fell to a lower position upon the web.
At 12.30 he made several attempts to insert both palpi, and succeeded half a minute later.
The position of the two was as in the preceding case, she hanging in the web by her posterior three pairs of legs, he hanging to her by his inserted palpi, his anterior three pairs of legs loosely embracing hers (and their claws hooked to web lines), his fourth pair of legs directed behind him and also hooked to web lines.
The palpi were inserted by pressing them in this flexed position along the ventral surface of her cephalothorax backward to her epigynum.
When inserted, a large vesicle or sac was evaginated from the lateral side of each palpal organ.
I watched the copulation from 12.30 to 12.55, when I was obliged to leave, and on my return at 1.25 found them separated, he feeding on a beetle which she had previously enshrouded.
(3) ?
No.
82.
I put d" No.
87 with her from May 17 to Jlay 22, when he w^as repeatedly observed to make advances toward and to touch her, but she acted slightly hostile to him and no copulation was seen.
She moulted on May 22.
On that day (he had remained all this time in her cage) I watched a curious kind of courtship between them from 8.00 to 9.40 P.M.
They hung opposite each other in the web, he by his first pair of legs, she by her first and second, reaching out and parrying with their other legs.
His head pointed directly downward, her body in a horizontal position with the dorsal side down.
During this process, wliich continued with few interruptions during the period of observation, he changed his position only slightly, while she moved about somewhat.
Sometimes he made a short advance toward her, then not holding his palpi directed anteriorly (as usual) but with their stalks bent ventrad, so that the large palpal organs were bent upon his cephalothorax ; at each such attempt at copulation the striking of her legs against him seemed to frighten him, and he withdrew.
Both became quiet at 10.00.
If this was a courtship, she appeared more active in it than he.
On May 23, 24 and 25 I watched the pair at intervals, but saw no copulation.
But at 10.20 P.M. on May 26 I found them in copula; they certainly had not been more than 15 minutes in that act.
This.
copulation lasted without interruption to 11.31.
Then he climbed to the bottom of the cage, when she actively chased him, and finally contented herself with feeding upon a former enshrouded victim.
The attitudes of the two were as in the preceding cases.
Both palpi were continuously inserted at once, and neither withdrawn, though each at intervals underwent a slight lateral movement; they were so firmly fixed in her epigynal apertures as to bear the greater part of his weight; at each side of each palpal organ was clearly visible an evaginated, rounded sac, which collapsed after the withdrawal of the palpi.
This male had lost his third pair of legs; with his fourth pair directed caudad he hung to the web ; the left foot of his second pair was hooked to the tarsus of the left leg of her second pair; the right foot of his second pair was hooked to the tarsus of the right foot of her fourth pair; the left tarsus of his first pair rested against the left tarsus of her fourth pair; and the right tarsus of his first pair rested upon the tarsi of her first and second pairs.
Next day she killed this male.
(4) While her young were scattered upon her web, I put in cJ' No.
245 to 9 No.
174.
At the end of five minutes she rushed at and tried to enshroud him, when I separated them.
From these observations it is apparent that there is no real courtship on the part of the male; he approaches her with great caution, tentatively touching her with his legs, and only then attempting copulation when she remains immovable under his touches.
In all the cases the female attempted to kill the male after copulation, and very frequently before; then he escapes by falling from the web, and always approaches her from beneath.
The time of copulation varied from 11 to 32 minutes.
Cocooning.
— The making of the cocoon I have not seen, though I have watched pregnant females for long intervals in the hope of seeing it.
Pokrowsky (1899) is the only wTiter who has described this process.
The cocoon is a very thin, white, silken covering to the globular mass of eggs; so thin and flimsy that we can be sure that there is a real silken cocoon only by the white case that is left after the young have escaped from it.
The number of cocoons furnished by my captives was as follows, each date given representing the time of making of a particular cocoon: 9 No.
9, June 24 (hatched July 12), July 26, August 30 (hatched September 23) ; ?
No.
12, May 27 (hatched June 15), July 19 (this cocoon was dropped to the floor and did not hatch) ; ?
No.
82, June 14 (hatched July 4), July 19 (this cocoon was dropped and did not hatch), August 16 (hatched about September 1), latter half of November, (hatched in December); 9 No.
179, June 16 (this was dropped and did not hatch); 9 No.
181, June 23 (this was dropped and did not hatch), July 19 (hatched August 4).
Thus none produced more than 3 cocoons, and when a cocoon was dropped it did not hatch.
Care for the Young.
— As nmiierous writers have noticed, the mother carries her cocoon suspended in her jaws.
But it has always been stated that the cocoon is carried until the young hatch.
While I have found this to be the case in one or two instances, I have seen more cases where the mother will occasionallv suspend her cocoon temporarily by a line to the web, in order to clean herself and to feed.
This is the more remarkable since rough handling does not cause the mother to loose her firm hold upon the cocoon, and her jaws are so firmly imbedded in its lining that, even when she wishes to, she has difficulty in breaking her hold upon it.
Perhaps some of these cases where the cocoon falls to the ground are mishaps occasioned by the mother losing her hold upon her cocoon when trying to suspend it upon a thread.
That such a suspension is frequent is shown by the following facts: ?
No.
9 held her cocoon continuously in her jaws from June 24 up to July 2; on the latter date I gave her a fly, she chased and quickly enshrouded it, then left it and went to the roof of the cage, where she spun a few fine lines, then with the help of her second and third pairs of legs removed the cocoon from her jaws, held it with these legs while she touched her spinnerets to its surface three timeS; then left it hanging on the fine lines thus made, and which were attached to the roof by her third pair of legs, and went back and fed upon the fly; after this meal she returned and took the cocoon into her jaws again.
She repeated this process next day with another fly, and the day following without a fly being put in.
?
No.
12 was observed to do the same operation once with her first cocoon to secure food, and once with her second in order to clean herself.
9 No.
82 was observed to do so also.
9 No.
181 was observed to do so likewise in order to clean herself, and she, when regaining the suspended cocoon, first seized its envelope with her jaws, then with her legs snapped the supporting lines.
The hatching of the young has been observed before, but never very fully described, so that a few notes may be of interest.
9 No.
82 was observed on the afternoon of July 4 holding her cocoon in her mouth, the young slowly unfolding themselves, the most superficial first; at 2.40 all the young had unfolded and hung as a great mass to her jaws; at 6.15 all had dispersed and the empty cocoon was hanging in the web.
With 9 No.
174 the process was noted in more detail.
At 8.30 P.M. the young were beginning to unfold their legs at the lower side of the cocoon, which the mother still held in her jaws; the more superficial of the spiderlings stretched themselves, and by the enlacement of their legs together, and enlacement with the legs of those that succeeded them, there was attached to the mother's jaws a great mass of young spiderlings, a mass of a diameter fully equalling the length of the mother's body.
Next morning early I found all the young, nearly 60 in number, distributed over the web, the mother motionless near them, and lower in the web the empty cocoon.
9 No.
12 acted differently.
On June 15, at 2.30 P.M., I found the young spiders beginning to escape from the cocoon, which in this case was suspended from the web, and not from the mother's jaws.
At 2.35 she tore away with her jaws a portion of the cocoon, which allowed the young to emerge more easily; this she repeated at 2.40 and 2.43, each time avoiding biting the young spiders.
By this time about 17 of the young were upon the web, and the mother moved about the young, spinning, and careful not to injure them.
At 3.40 I put a large beetle {C haul log nathus sp.)
upon her web, which became entangled there and shook the web.
For a minute the mother remained quiet, then went to the mass of young which had not yet become scattered, and enshrouded it with silk as she does a victim, but more slowly; then carried it with her jaws.
I watched her until 6 o'clock; at intervals she left the enshrouded mass of young hanging on the web, but always returned to it again to take it in her jaws, and sometimes tore at the silken shroud with her jaws.
At 6.15 she started energetically tearing open the shroud, but all the young did not emerge from this silken envelope until a couple of days had passed.
It is difficult to explain this act: did she enshroud the young to protect them from the beetle?
Or did she enshroud them mistaking them temporarily for the beetle?
Feeding.
— It fills one with admiration to watch this feeble spider, with her w^eak jaws and long hair-like legs, overcoming prey much larger and stronger than herself.
It is done by enshrouding the victim with great rapidity.
In the operation the spider rushes at the victim, then with cephalothorax up and abdomen down applies with her fourth pair of legs, these legs used in very rapid alternate action and sometimes aided by the third pair, a thread issuing from her spinnerets to the victim, and so within a short time renders it immovable.
In case web lines interrupt the free action of her legs, she stops her work to bite these lines loose.
The act of enshrouding lasts until the victim is nearly hidden by the thread around it, and completely powerless to move, when the spider carries it hooked to her fourth legs up to a higher place in the web and feeds upon it there.
The prey is sucked dry, then cut loose from the web.
The agility and strength evinced by this spider is marvelous.
The Shaking Habit.
— This is the well-known habit this species has of shaking the body so rapidly by a rotary movement, while in the web, as to render itself almost invisible.
Certain Epeirids have the same habit.
With Pholcus it is an expression of fear, and is resorted to after the web has been severely jarred.
Once a female was seen to shake this way after a male w^as put upon her web ; but I never saw such a case repeated, and believe that the female was shocked by some action on my part.
It is never resorted to in order to secure prey.
Acrosoma gracile Walck.
PI.
IV, fig.
5.
This Epeirid, common in many of the local woods, is remarkable for great sexual dimorphism.
The abdomen of the female is hard and corneous, angular and prolonged into spines.
The male is much smaller than the female and much more rarely found; his small abdomen is elongated and without spines.
On account of these differences it seemed desirable to observe the mating process.
$No.
322 was captured July 23, and died August 11; she made in her cage only the foundation lines of a web, but no orb, and so was unable to catch the insects given her.
c?
No.
321 was caught on July 23, and died July 28; he also constructed no orb.
Mating.
— On July 27, at 9.27 A.M., the male was dropped upon her web.
At 9.31 he touched her, and copulated from 9.32^ to 9.42.
She hung ventral surface up by her fourth pair of legs to the web lines, her other legs flexed close to the cephalothorax, her thorax horizontal.
The male approached her from in front of her head wdth his long axis also in the horizontal plane, walking upon the upturned ventral surface of her cephalothorax and abdomen, when he firmly implanted his outstretched left palpus in her epigynal orifice; then keeping the palpal organ there, he swung his body round so as to bring it on the right side of her abdomen, so that now his head was upmost and a little posterior to her epigynum, and the long axis of his body was approximately parallel to an imaginary line joining her spinnerets with the most posterior spinous processes of her abdomen.
Here he held on firmly with his feet to the roughened surface of her abdomen, practically out of reach of any of her legs, and was not dislodged even though part of the time she climbed about as if trying to get rid of him.
A swollen evaginated sac connected with the inserted palpal organ was clearly seen in dilation, and he held his palpus inserted until it had collapsed.
He then disengaged himself from her, but returned and copulated again, from 9.55 to 10.03, this time placing himself on the left side of her abdomen and using his right palpus.
Then he left her again and remained quiet most of the time up to 10.30.
At 10.32 he approached and touched her, she followed him and once embraced him lightly with her legs, but he avoided her.
After that she climbed about, and whenever she touched one of the web lines which he was holding, by a sudden contraction of his legs he pulled the line taut; this was possibly an amatory signal.
I watched the pair continuously up to 1 o'clock, but saw no further copulation nor any preparation for sperm-induction.
Epeira labyrinthea Hentz.
Of this abundant and beautiful Epeirid only two individuals were watched, c?
No.
281 was captured July 2, moulted July 5, died about September 1 (from hunger).
9 No.
280 was captured July 2, moulted July 13 and 18, and died (from hunger) about October 1.
This species, as well known, fabricates a labyrinth of lines behind a vertical orb; the female made such a complete web, but the male made no orb.
Mating.
— After the female had constructed her web and had made 1 cocoon, the male was dropped upon her labyrinth on July 26, at 8.07 P.M. She was in her usual position, just beneath her cocoon, placed high in the labyrinth.
He remained immovable until 8.39, when he began to climb about, alternately advancing toward and retreating from her, spinning threads all the while, she remaining suspended head down near her cocoon, occasionally jerking the wel) lines with her anterior legs (evidently signalling).
The male finally made two or three quick motions toward her, withdrew each time, then copulated with her at 8.44 and again at 8.44^.
Each copulation lasted barely 5 seconds; she hung head down with legs loosely flexed, like the female of Theridium tepidariorum, her ventral surface turned toward him ; he embraced her legs with his, head downward also, but the copulation was so rapid that I could not determine how he applied his palpi, except that both seemed to be applied simultaneously to her epigynimi.
He then left her and went to a corner of the cage, where he vigorously cleaned his palpi and legs up to 8.58; while she remained quiet in the same place.
There was no sperm-induction up to 10.00 P.M., when I left them together; he remained upon the labyrinth of her web up to the time of his death, and the pair seemed perfectly amicable.
There is no courtship, the male finds the female by pulling upon the lines of the web, and her answering pulls are evidently a signal to him of desire upon her part.
In natural conditions several males are often found at once upon the labyrinth of the female.
Cocooning.
— This female constructed five cocoons, on July 26, July 31, August 9, August 19, and August 27 respectively.
In accord with the well-known habit of the species the cocoons were placed in a chain one below the other, the latest formed cocoon being the lowest; the cocoons are brown in color, biconvex, rather conical above and more rounded below and irregularly circular in greatest outline.
Though the process of cocooning was not seen, it is very probable that the cocoon is formed of a base and a cover, and that the base is placed highest, and for these reasons : First, there is a wellmarked line around the equator, showing a union of two parts.
Second, the female, before cocooning, constructs a little tent, in the form of a shallow inverted cone, placed high in the labyrinth, and rests beneath it; this cone is an admirable protection against rain and simlight, and serves to partially conceal the spider.
The males appear not to make such nests.
Now when a cocoon is made the female uses this conical nest as the base, thickening it by silk, the eggs are laid in its hollow, then a more nearly flat cover of less diameter is spun to close the mouth of the cone.
Then she constructs beneath this cocoon a second nest-cone in which she rests, later incorporates it into a second cocoon; and so all the cocoons are made (frequently up to the number of 6).
Here the nest accordingly is later made a part of a cocoon; probably other Epeirids that make similar silken nests will be found to cocoon in much the same fashion, though I know of one exception (Epeira benjamina Walck.).
Sitting at twilight during a heavy downpour of rain beneath some trees for protection, I saw a female of this species constructing the base of her cocoon on the under surface of a leaf, at a considerable distance from her nest (the nest is a leaf curled up and lined with silk).
Feeding.
— The female rests below her conical nest supported high in the labyrinth behind the orb, and holds taut with her feet a line joined to the orb.
When a fly becomes stuck to the viscid spirals of the orb, she quickly runs along the drop-line to the orb, kills it by biting (without enshrouding it), carries it back to her nest to suck it dry, then usually leaves the carcass hanging in the labyrinth.
The males that are upon the web of a female during the mating season also feed upon insects caught in her orb, carrying the victims to outlying parts of the labyrinth.
Xysticus stomachosus Keys.
PI.
V, fig.
7.
Individuals observed, males: No.
5, captured April 27, moulted May 15, died June 7 on account of injuries incurred in an attempt to escape; No.
108, captured May 19, escaped May 27.
Individuals observed, females: No.
4, captured April 27, moulted May 10, died August 21; No.
109, captured May 19, moulted May 24, still living.
Moult.
— 9 No.
4 was found in nearly completed moult at 7.40 P.M., the exuvia adhering then only to the spinnerets.
She was lying upon the floor on her left side, with her legs stretched out straight, and later fell over upon her back.
She did not rise until 8.03, and 5 minutes later chmbed up the wall.
This moult has not resulted in any regeneration of a leg broken off six days before.
The old skin was in a dorsal and a ventral piece separated by a symmetrical horizontal break, as in other spiders.
6" No.
5 was found at 8.20 P.M., hanging head downward from the exuvia, which was fastened to the wall; he did not move until 8.38, and did not break away entirely from the exuvia until 8.43.
Mating.
— This was studied by keeping a male and a female in the two compartments of a partition cage, removing the partition to see the mating; the spiders showed that they saw each other through the glass partition.
c?
No.
5 was placed with ?
No.
4 on a number of occasions prior to May 10, the date of her final moult, and on May 13, but he avoided her each time.
On May 15 he completed his final moult, but on the next day he avoided her again; this would show that sexual ardor may not show itself in the male immediately after the final moult On May 17 they were put together at 8.00 P.M.
Both remained perfectly quiet within an inch up to 8.57, when she moved toward him with her first two pairs of legs outstretched; he quickly reached out his corresponding legs, seized the feet of her right fore-legs with his right fore-legs, and holding them thus (only the metatarsi in contact) he quickly revolved around her and climbed upon her back from behind.
She immediately became immobile with her legs flexed close to her body.
He turned about upon her back, holding her with his legs, and feehng her with his palpi.
At 9.02 he reached his head downward over the posterior end of her abdomen, placed the ventral surface of his cephalothorax against the ventral surface of her abdomen so that his head was posterior to her epigynum, his abdomen accordingly extending behind hers and tilted upward; his third and fourth pairs of legs held tightly to her abdomen, while his first and second pairs were directed forward to embrace her legs.
One palpus at a time he then extended straight forward and applied to her epigynum.
The number of palpal appUcations was, using the abbreviations r and I for right and left respectively, the first numbers expressing the time extent, the second the number of insertions: r, 9.08-9.12, 8; 1, 9.129.13^, 6; r, 9.13^-9.36^, 9, the last time inserted continuously from 9.21 to 9.36^.
The black spine connected with the palpal organ was pressed into her epigynal aperture, and when so inserted an evaginated sac connected with the concave surface of the organ expanded and collapsed after the withdrawal of the palpus from the epigynum; before another insertion the palpal organ was drawn through the chelicera.
At 9.38 he moved half an inch away, and she rose suddenly at 9.41.
The same 9 , No.
4, copulated several times with this male.
No.
5 On each occasion their attitudes were the same.
The following notes give concisely the duration of time and the number of applications of the palpi, as well the mode of approach of the male.
(1) May 18, as soon as he touched her he immediately mounted upon her back, at 12.09 P.M.; palpi applied as follows: r, 12.16^-12.21, 9; r, 12.21-12.31^, inserted continuously.
Then he walked half an inch away, returned and copulated again; r, 12.37-12.41, 2 or 3; he then left and again tried to return, but she repulsed him.
(2) May 19, by touching him I brought him in contact with her he mounted her, and made the following palpal applications : 1, 8.288.30, 4, not effectively inserted; 1, 8.31-8.33, 1; 1, 8.34-8.34^, 1, 1, 8.35^8.36; 1, 8.36^8.42; 1, 8.421-8.43; 1, 8.43^-8.44; 1, 8.44-8.46 1; 1, 8.46^-8.47; 1, 8.47^-8.50; 1, 8.50-8.51; 1, 8.53-8.53*; 1, 8.54^8.57^.
Then she rose and shook him off.
(3) May 21, at 10.17 P.M., he touched her, kept quiet for half a minute, then climbed upon her.
He left her for a few seconds at 10.25 then returned and applied his palpi as follows: 1, 10.29^-10.35, 5; r, 10.35^ to 10.36, 6; 1, 10.38^ to 10.41; r, 10.44^-10.46, several times ; 1, 10.46 to 10.48, several times; 1, 10.48-10.48+, 1; r, 10.48^-10.49^ 1; r, 10.49^-10.51; r, 10.51-10.52^ 4; 1, 10.53-10.55, 4; 1, 10.55-10.58, 1 ; r, 10.58-11.08, continuously; 1, 11.08-11.12, 1; r, 11.12+-11.17.
He then got upon her back, remained quiet there for a while, then I separated them.
(4) May 23, he mounted her at 3.34 P.M. Then the two being in an unfavorable place for study, I pushed them to another place with a pen-handle; she gripped it, and I was obliged to shake roughly to make her leave go, but he did not loosen his hold upon her, and as soon as she had lost her grasp upon the pen-handle she immediately became motionless again with flexed legs.
He applied his palpi as follows: r, 3.39-3.40, 6; 1, 3.42-3.45, 1; r, 3.45*-3.46, 1; 1, 3.46-3.46^ 1; 1, 3.47-3.50, 1; 1, 3.51-3.52, 1; r, 3.521-3.54; 1, 3.54-4.00; then he walked off for a minute but returned; r, 4.03-4.04^, 1; 1, 4.04^-4.07; r, 4.08-4.11 ; 1, 4.12-4.13.
He then left her, returned, did so again, but at 4.14 she arose.
(5) May 28, he was placed with her from 9.24-9.50 P.M., but there was no copulation.
(6) May 29, the male mounted her at 8.45 P.M. Palpal applications: 1, 9.53-9.561 6; r, 9.56^-9.58*, 2.
Then she began to walk about and carried him out of the open cage, and in putting them back I separated them.
(7) June 3, 8.31 P.M. She moved so as to touch him, and a minute later he mounted her.
Palpal applications: 1, 8.37*-8.39, several times; r, 8.39-8.40^, several times; 1, 8.40^8.45, continuously; 1, 8.45*-8.57, continuously; r, 8.57*-9.01, several times; r, 9.01-9.03.
At 9.05 he got upon her dorsal side again, a minute later she rose and walked off with him chnging to her.
She dislodged him at 9.09, but a minute later he mounted her again, used his right palpus from 9.12 -9.13, then she rose and escaped from him.
$No.
109 copulated with c?
No.
108 on May 24, and on May 25; the attitudes were as in the previous cases.
On May 29 she was rather hostile to him, and whenever he tried to grasp her she ran off.
Once with his first two pairs of legs he parried with hers for more than a minute, evidently trying to grasp them; then he sidled off.
and when he returned she grasped him with her legs, and finally she gripped fiercely at him.
The descriptions here given may seem unnecessarily full, but they are given to show the variations in the mode of copulation, a greater variation than I have observed in any other species.
In one copulation only one of the palpi was used; in the others both palpi, but in irregular alternation.
The earlier palpal applications in each copulation are mainly ineffective, the palpal organ not being thoroughly inserted, and a considerable part of the time is occupied in working the palpal organ through the chelicera.
Peculiar for this species is the fact of the male sometimes interrupting the copulation by leaving the female for a minute, then returning and resuming it.
The longest period of copulation was 4S minutes.
There is no coiu'tship on the part of the male, nor any instigation by the female.
When the male is first put into the cage of a female, even though he faces her, he does not seem to recognize her as such by sight, and pays no attention to her until he touches her, when he quickly gets upon her back.
My custom was to push him up to the female.
He is considerably the smaller and the more active; and when upon her back he is secure from her legs, and is not easily dislodged by her.
He mounts upon her from behind, out of reach of her long and dangerous fore-legs, and when he is mounted she immediately becomes still.
His smaller size and greater activity enable him to accomplish his purpose, quickness overcoming strength.
Seeing the male upon the female, one involuntarily thinks of the Old Man of the Sea, who cannot be dislodged.
Cocooning.
— For some two weeks before making her cocoon 9 No.
4 spun a network of web-lines across her cage, so dense that she frequently became entangled in them, and I was obliged to clean them away.
But this is probably not to be considered a web-making, but simply the habit this species has of drawing out a thread behind when walking, a "drop-line" by which it can find its way back.
On July 5, however, she made quite a dense sheet of silk in a corner of the cage, completely enclosing her and inclined at an angle from the floor to the walls.
Within this she made, in the early morning of July 9, her only cocoon; this cocoon was inclined at an angle to the floor, fastened to the scaffolding, flattened, unevenly circular in outline, and white in color.
It did not hatch.
9 No.
109 built on July 5, at the angle of two walls of her cage with the floor, a similar sheet-like tent; and on July 9 made her cocoon within it.
This cocoon was roughly quadrangular in outline and flattened.
It did not hatch.
Care of the Young.
— The cocoon is guarded by the mother, who lies upon it and embraces it tightly with her legs.
9 No.
4 would not leave her cocoon to secure living food during the first ten da3^s, but clung tenaciously to it ; but after that she would leave it to chase prey, and afterward would return to the cocoon, or at least to the silk sheet placed before it.
By chmbing many times upon this silk sheet she gradually demolished it.
9 No.
109 at first held her cocoon zealously, then neglected it for several days, and finally at this time, October 4, is embracing it again.
Philodromus aureolus Walck.
Cocooning.—A female of this species made 6 cocoons, on she following dates respectively: July 3, 30, August 9, 21, 27, September 6.
All these were normal cocoons except one, whicli I disturbed in the process of making, but the eggs of none of them hatched.
The first three cocoons were placed side by side at the angle of the wall and the roof of the cage, the others at the angle of the wall and the floor.
The mother constantly stands with outstretched legs over the most recent cocoon.
Each cocoon is a flattened disk of rather loose white threads, and the mode of architecture shows that the mass of ova had been laid upon the surface of the lower disk (base), and then overspun with another disk (cover).
But a peculiarity is a third disk of silk, concentric with but at a distance of about 2 mm.
from the cover of the cocoon — the final protection, on which the mother stands.
Prostliesima sp.s Cocooning.
— On June 14, at 8.45 P.M., I saw a female just finishing her cocoon, which was discoidal in shape.
She placed her feet upon its margin, and brushed her spinnerets from side to side across its surface.
This was her second cocoon, and at 10.05 she started spinning again upon the wall of the cage, used her spinnerets as before, and continuing steadily up to 11.50, when I ceased to watch her.
She had then made a thick silken covering, about four times her length in one direction, and half so long in the other.
But she did not oviposit upon this surface, so that I cannot tell whether it was an abnormal cocoon or not.
'Mr.
Banks wrote me that this species comes closest to P. insularis Ban-ks, but is different from it.
Thargalia brivittata (Keys.).
Cocooning.
— The end of this process only was seen.
The discoidal cocoon was satiny-white and placed at the angle of the floor and wall of the cage ; its base was closely apposed to these surfaces so as to be bent at a right angle, while the cover (of smaller diameter than the base) was arched from the floor to the wall.
In completing this cover the spider brushes her spinnerets more forward and backward than from side to side, flexing her body about energetically, while keeping her feet in one position upon the edge of the cocoon; then she changes her position over the cocoon, and repeats this process.
I watched her in this process for half an hour, after which she covered the surface of the cocoon with small particles of dirt.
Drassus neglectus Keys.
Guarding of the Cocoon.
— A female of this species was caught on June 10, and made a thick web within her cage.
On the evening of July 7 she made her cocoon, which was white in color, discoidal with circular outline, one side flattened and the opposite side somewhat arched.
This cocoon was loose, not fastened to any object, and she held its margin with her chelicera, pressing her cephalothorax against it and at times partially embracing it with her legs.
Most of the time she held it in one corner of the cage, but sometimes carried it about to different portions of the cage.
When I touched her she still clung to it without moving ; flies were put in her cage almost daily, but she paid no attention to them, even though at times they touched her.
She died on July 21, still holding the cocoon in death.
This observation is narrated, since I know of no other Drassid that guards its cocoon so carefully, nor of any that makes such a thick and large web.
General Considerations.
History of Our Knowledge.
— In 1701 Leeuwenhoek, the father of histology, wrote: "I never was so happy as to see the Spiders couple, .... but what shall we say, the Coition of Spiders must differ fundamentally from other Creatures, since their Matrix is placed in the vipper part of their Belly."
He did not know of the observations of Lister, who in 1678 discovered that the male spider fertilizes the female by applying the enlarged terminal joint of his maxillary palpus to her epigynum.
The discovery has been confirmed by a long list of observers, though a list small in comparison with the number who have sought in vain to see the process : Ausserer, Bertkau, Blackwall, Campbell, Clerck, De Geer, Duges, Emerton, Fickert, Hasselt, Hentz, Herman, Lendl, Lesser, McCook, Menge (in numerous species), the Peckhams, Ritsema, Seidel, Treat, Walckenaer, Westberg.
These confirmatory observations, embracing species of all the larger araneid families, make it very probable that in all modern Araneids the male transfers the sperm to the female by means of his palpi.
Two writers have combated this conclusion: Treviranus, who first discovered the testes of spiders and, finding no organic connection between these organs and the palpi, maintained that the application of the male palpi to the epigynum is probably not real copulation, but rather a preliminary act of stimulation; and Cambridge, who states he observed two individuals of a Lycosa in coition, with their genital apertures in apposition.
In \dew of the numerous observations on this act in Lycosa, I have no hesitation in stamping Camljridge's assertion as erroneous.
In all the families where the act has been seen, accordingly, the palpal organs are the transmitters of the semen.
Now though Treviranus showed conclusively that there is no organic connection between the testes, or the vasa deferentia, and the peculiarly modified palpal organs, some later writers, particularly Cambridge and Herman, insisted that there must be some such tubular connection, in order to explain the presence of spermatozoa in the palpal organs.
The results of all other anatomists, however, have corroborated Treviranus, and Menge discovered, first in the year 1843, how the sperm is brought from the genital aperture into the tubular apparatus of the palpal organs.
In that paper of 1843, an arachnological classic, he described the process for Linyphia triangularis and Agalena labyrinthica, showing that the male constructs a little silken bridge or "Steg," deposits a drop of sperm from his genital aperture upon it, then applies his palpal organs alternately to the drop until they have absorbed it all; then, and not till then, is the male ready for copulation.
This process of charging the palpi with sperm, which I have termed here "sperm-induction," was described by Menge later also iovTapinopa longidens, Agalena similis and Micrommata virescens.
The only other writers who have described this process are Black wall (1863, in Agalena labyrinthica), Ausserer (1867, in Dictyna henigna and Linyphia triangularis), Bertkau (1875, 1876, in Philoica domestica, Linyphia montana and Cluhiona comta), Westberg (1900, in Linyphia triangularis).
To these may be added my present observation on Lycosa stonei, L. ocreata pulchra, Tegenaria derhami, Theridium tepidariorum and Dictyna volupis (here seen twice).
Hasselt was unable to see this process himself, and on that account doubted whether it is of general occurrence among spiders.
The Mode of Embrace in Copulation.
— Grouping together my own observations with those of other natiirahsts.
and bracketing the authority for each case, the following modes of embrace may be distinguished in spiders: (1) — The male above the female with his ventral surface apposed to her dorsal, their heads pointing in opposite directions, (a) — Female with her sternum down: Lycosa stonei, L. ocre'ata pulchra, L. scutulata (Montgomery), L. monticola (Clerck), L. amentata, L. rurestris (]\Ienge); Trochosa infernalis (Lendl), T. terricola (Menge); Pardosa yiigr opal pis (Montgomery) ; Sparassus (Bertkau) ; Epiblemum scenicum, Attidcc, Enophrys reticulata (Menge), Attus scenicus (De Geer) ; Plwurolithus festivus, MelanopJiora nocturna (Menge).
(b) — Female partially upon her side: Agalena ncevia (Emerton, Montgomery), A. labyrinthica (Duges, Menge, Walckenaer), A. similis (Menge).
(2) — The head of the male facing the head of the female, their bodies in one line, (a) — ^lale with his dorsum directed upward, female partially upon her side: Tegenaria derhami (Montgomery).
(6) — Both with ventral surfaces directed upward, bodies horizontal: Linyphia marginata (Emerton, ]\IcCook), ?Steatoda boreal is (Emerton).
(3) — Ventral surfaces of the pair apposed, sternum against sternum, heads directed in opposite directions, (a) — Copulation upon a web: Argenna (Bertkau), Linyphia montana (Clerck), Linyphia triangularis (De Geer, Menge).
(b) — Copulation upon the ground, (&') — Male below the female: Argyroneta aquatica (Walckenaer), Chiracanthium oncognathus (Menge).
{b") — Male above the female : Clubiona triviolis (Menge).
(4)— Male holding to the side of the abdomen of the female, his long axis at right angles to hers: Acrosoma gracile (Montgomery).
(5) — Male with his ventral surface apposed to the posterior and ventral surface of the abdomen of the female, their heads turned in the same direction: Xysticus audax (Prach), A', triguttatus (Emerton), X. stomachosus (Montgomery), Misumena vatia (De Geer), Micrommata virescens (Menge).
(6) — Ventral surface of the male turned toward the ventral surface of the female, their heads tiu*ned in the same direction, copulation in a web, (a) — Bodies not in actual contact, but heads converging: Epeira labyrinthea (^Montgomery), E. diademata (Menge, Lendl), Theridium tepidariorum, Pholcus phalangioides (IMontgomery).
9 130 [Jan., (6) — Long axes of the bodies converging so that the forehead of the male touches the sternum of the female: Dictyna volupis (Emerton, Montgomery), D. henignum (Walckenaer), Micryphantes rurestris (Hasselt).
(c) — ]\Iale with his sternum apposed to that of the female: Dictyna armnophila (Menge).
(d) — Male apposed to the ventral surface of the abdomen of the female: Nephila, Argiope (Emerton), Meta segmentata, Asagena serratipes (Menge).
(e) — ]\Iale holding the chelicera of the female with his own, the abdomen of the female flexed ventrad : Pachygnatha listeri (Menge), Tetragnatha extensa (Bertkau.
Duges, Menge, Lister, Walckenaer).
The following table illustrates the distribution of these modes of embrace among the families observed : Family.
LycosidcB .
... SparassidcB .
AttidcB DrassidcB .
.
.
AgalenidcB .
.
T heridiidoB .
.
Argyronetidce EpeiridcB .
.
.
Thomisidm.
.
.
PholcidcB DietynidoB .
.
.
Mode of Embr.^.ce.
la 16 2o 26 3a 36 i 4 5 Ga i 06 t 6c 6d 1 6e + + + + + + + + + The species which have been observed are too few to allow broad generahzations, but the following points may be noted.
In all the species it is the male that embraces the female, she remaining motionless ; the male embraces with his legs, and in Tetragnatha and Pachygnatha with his chelicera also.
The mode of embrace may well be dependent upon one of several different factors: (1) relative size of male and female; (2) differences in their form; (3) differences in place of copulation (whether upon a web or upon the ground).
The fact that the typical terrestrial spiders which do not build webs (Lycosiclce, Sparassidce, Attidoe, certain Drassidce) all show the same mode of embrace might point to similarity of place of copulation, in unison with the running and hunting habits of these species, inducing similarity of mode of embrace, and be referable to the third factor; while the diversity of embrace in the web-making species may be in part due to differences in the web construction, in part to degree of sexual dimorphism.
The Epeiridcc and Theridiidce show the greatest diversity of embrace, and in these families is to be found also the greatest sexual dimorphism.
In other words, the mode of embrace may be brought into more or less conformity with the general mode of life of the species.
Similarity of embrace points, then, to similarity of other habits, but not necessarily to community of descent.
No spider shows the attitude of embrace common among insects, namely the male above the female with his head pointed in the same direction as hers.
Details of the Process of Copulation.
— The following table combines data of the other observers with my own upon the details of copulation.
Where a species has been entered more than once, each repetition denotes a separate act of copulation.
In the column "Duration of Copulation," h, m, s, signify hour, minute and second respectively.
In the column headed ''Simultaneous," the sign X denotes that both palpi are inserted at once, and the sign — that they are not.
In the column headed "Alternated," the sign X indicates that the right and left palpi are inserted alternately, but that the number of alternations was not noted ; the sign — ,that only one palpus is employed ; while a number expresses the number of alternations of the right and left palpi.
In the columns headed " Right Palp" and " Left Palp," a number enclosed in brackets denotes the average number of times one palpus is inserted successively before the other palpus is inserted, this average being obtained by dividing the total number of insertions of that particular palpus by the total number of alternations of the palpi.
Spaces left vacant in the columns denote lack of observations.
For the great number of small details that cannot be reproduced in such a table, the reader is referred to the observational part of this paper, and to the works mentioned in the literature list.
132 [Jan., d, C^^_^-r^ 00 ^^ ^_, oj 00 Pm •^«o"^*-<i' CTi^ CD ^ ■ — -V— '— '^^^^^^ ^— ^ ^ tCO CO « «o o?
O 00 7—1 )3 iO £03 I■<»< 00 00 1—1 d o i-> <X) !C B d. *"• 'cS -^ Ci 50 CJ £ ^^ .
.
•■^ g. -* ^ CO -^ --H i-H to CO Qi I 00 CO -^ xi (?> io o CO 1—1 r3 •* lO CO CO O 00 00 U-t Ph O t-i M a 'C s 0) ^ a g »0 CO -* O 00 l■^ C5 T-H 1—) ^ 0(N 50-* OS «o tH 1— 1 1— 1 T-H z^ C3 O l—t c3 cS l-> o Ol fH > 03 3P-1 ■+ I + ++ f I S I o «i CO I > o S ' g| I I + I +1 i I a 3 LO *>• ^ ^" S S ^ ^ ^ £OS tCO CO 00 i ^ .
^> ,: 10 M ^a o a o <» <» g g g V "^ -^ K^ K^ k.( M, ., „ ., a S"?
a *"• w »-< o n (ij S-* C^ >y.
^ S O rni C3 (-15 r;^' ^ ^ Qj -» 1,1; ^ s^ ^-^ g c^ <i ffi ^ s Q j^ ;^ be a s s ►-hS tc « ^ a "> '—' O OJ CB CJ .
'^ .
°^ ■otx tc: cr ~ie ts ?
?5 ~-^ kq;^K^^i;^^;^l^^^^^^ft,;^f>l^^■ § e s i= '^5 2 ^ ^ !S 5^ I^ ■T| >il &5 ^ E^ fe] k;^^c: s « S 2 .53 >5 •a^aisooA^ •a'aiaiatig; •a'aiiaiTianx 1903.]
133 f <D d d '■ZS s o rt 1 rt 'jr?
eooji-ii-H ,-i,-i^,•r^ ^ O ^ 00 eo iC § t— t Q s Ol o c d OQ .d "3 d c3 o cs i a j3 5 t c3 Cm e<3(M i-H >-i rH i-H o d o LO s r-l X!
a 3 ;zi a; a CO S Y-H 1—1 ia-^r-<-r-lr-ly-tCiOiT-lT-t -rHi-HCO eO;3 1 ^ 5 § 3 OJ o ;-i H o §..• IS + ++ 1 1 CO+, 1 1 1^^ 1 1 1 0^ CI T-H l-H T-l l-H tH T-H r a. OS "3 ^1 So^ , M 1* + MI 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M 1 1 1 1 ^ • 3 2 2 -d CO rd ^M 00 3 CO " j3 B.2 "^o -<t -; .
a o d S <= o-g s a s i-H iC CO • — ' to^ So lO 1-H CO 11 1^1 _^ _^ *■; -| r^ ,r^ C0CQ"^*'h1O'*i<M"^ (N ^ « Tt< -rH CI Irt T-i C« CO tP^ CO i-H ^ <1 00 CO ht>^ ^^ 'S -^1.
S3 i a d^ o in *> ec « tn ^ c« <u c§§^"SSS to rrtS fi s?
ss s?
sJ s?
2 gaSddS«-Cd SSSa <: O SO) 15 ■» ■» pa)0*''»'»'»'»'"'^ swsf^s:^ <i S ^ ^ ^ i^ ^ I?
^ 5 li^^^gg^WW^ * ■ r>^ !S e « 2 §= ~ ■» ~.
■" ^ ~ S 'o m SS ais ■=> s 2 « O (S Jt Si.
S e °° e s ■3;S l^.o: 3 00 ft ^•8 s « K Iff § Si §-?§!
g^S §-§ s S S « g Itll .S <i, 5rs S^ J S .^ .^<»<U'»«<Jj«S>'S l50 <^ f^ "^ i«;i^^Si'^i^ qqcJS^i^^^t^^S ^;^^^^t«;«^-;2 ^Oh^^ •a^ai laiua HX •a a im: I2t l:J IC I Ft ima T\ w V TFaissv" aa 134 [Jan., aj s ji, "3 03 Pm 1 ^ ^ a is S -I-H T-H O 1-H 1-H tH a CO o '■6 <u (U s S ft •^ "3 S ce ft c3 1 1— 1 T-( l-H S 1— 1 tH 1— I tI tM 2 •"I o o M CO Q) ,Q a D iz; g d CO cci -># CO t(M (M 0» ^ C-i 1-1 tH CO I-H "3 ■«^ o H (h'C G^ '■G Ci< S2 3g 1 _L ICO 1 1 «0 cr lO III ■2|£ 1-= 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 + + + CO o3 a «4H > ui .
C.2 .2;!
• "Ss _S oJ g ■1^ -fci o "^ C^lCOOOO-^ift OJkS'3 Iff c* oj oj -^ CO w co^-*q CO >% ;-i <u >.
r^ ^ ■s o o 3 1^ s s s ■< <s;> ««0*'®'»'S)'^ <©<»<» ^ ;?
(^^^;^;^:?s as <a 00 <y .•« « ^ §5 ^ s « «c • ^ ^ e » ^ .^ oo Si 2 o '§ ^§'S ft; &( m e « ^ r^ ?^ ^ CO •-Si 1 '-S -S r^ si S sj S -s s s § •s ■< .a <» ■» =o « •a^aixxy •a t'a IS ii\ .0 HJ •a^aio-" 10 Hd' From these data we may conclude: (1) That the time duration of a copulation varies from a second, or a few seconds, to as much as 36 hours.
When the copulation is very brief it is probably frequently repeated many times, a number of times in quick succession (as certain Epeirids), or repeated a number of times on successive days (cf.
my gbservations on Theridium tepidariorum).
When it is of some hours in duration, the female frequently, but not always, kills the male at its conclusion (certain Lycosids and Agalenids).
(2) That the simultaneous insertion of both male palpi in the epigynum is unusual (Pholcus, certain Theridiids).
Most frequently either (a) only one palpus is used during the act, or (6) the palpi are alternated ; sometimes the same male may use only one palpus during one copulation, and both palpi during another {Dictyna volupis, Xysticus stomachosus) .
When the palpi are alternated, either (a) one of them may be used (continuously or with successive insertions) during the first half of the copulation, and the other palpus for the second half; or (6) the palpi may be frequently alternated, a strict alternation of right and left after each insertion, or else one may l^e inserted a mmiber of times before the other is used.
(3) That in all cases described in sufficient detail there has been noted the appearance, during insertion in the epigynum, of an evaginated, swollen sac connected with the palpal organ; the organ is not withdrawn from the epigynum until this sac collapses; this sac may expand and contract rhythmically in long insertions.
After the withdrawal of a palpus from the epigynal orifice, the male works the palpal organ between his chelicera — apparently to moisten it, as has been suggested by one observer.
(4) That within a species there is to be found considerable individual variations in the details of copulation.
(5) That a particular araneid family, as at present defined, may contain species which differ c^uite markedly in the details of their copulation : the Epeiridcc are an example.
The Sperm-induction, and the Origin of the Araneid Mode of Copulation.
— In the section entitled "History of Our Knowledge" all the known cases of sperm-induction are mentioned.
In all these cases the male deposits a minute drop of semen upon a portion of web.
and takes up this drop into his palpal organs by applying the latter to it.
then shaking them in the air.
There appear, however, to be some difference in the details in different species.
Thus the male sometimes spins a special small sheet or bridge over which he stands, and on which he deposits the semen (Linyphia triangularis, Agalena lahyrinthica, Tapinopa longidens, Agalena similis, Micrommata virescens.
Dictyna benigna, Philoica domestica, Linyphia montana, Cluhiona comta, Lycosa stonei, L. ocreata pulchra, Tegenaria derhami, Dictyna volupis); and sometimes he makes no special sheeting, but deposits the semen upon a strand of the domicile web {Theridium tepidariorum) .
In those species where the male does not construct a domicile welj, but lives upon the ground, as in the Lycosidoi and Drassidce, the male always s])ins a small sheeting to catch the drop of semen, and this is his only spinning act during his mature life; species that live in webs also generally construct a special sheeting for the semen.
There is no known case of the male charging his palpi by placing them directly against the genital aperture.
In order to see this act the observer should remove the male from the female immediately after a completed copulation, one which has exhausted the palpi of the seminal fluid, and watch for an act of sperm-induction ; that is the onl}' time when one may expect it with some certainty.
In some species the male may copulate several times, and frecjuently charges his palpi with semen before repeating an act of copulation.
This is a very wonderful process: the male discharges semen upon a web, takes up this semen into his palpal organs, and with the latter applies the semen to the genital aperture of the female.
There are, in a sense, two separate acts of seminal discharge, and at each of them, but most particularly in the second, the male shows very evident gratification.
No one, to my knowledge, has endeavored to account for such a double process, which is essentially different from the ''hektocotyly" of Cephalopods.
It is definitely determined that the palpi (pedipalpi) of araneids and other arachnids have, in the mature state, no organic connection with the testes or vasa deferentia, that there are no tubes connecting the palpal organs with the organs in which the spermatozoa develop.
In the ontogenetic development the palpi appear at first similar to the other extremities, and are separated from the genital aperture by four segments of the cephalothorax, each bearing a pair of appendages.
Accordingly there is neither anatomical nor embryological reason for supposing that the palpi ever had been appendages of the genital aperture, which had later moved forward from the region of the genital aperture; they are true thoracic appendages, and not abdominal.
Now the pedipalpi of Limulus in the male terminate each in a large swollen knob, which is used in the copulation as a clasper of the female; and in Limulus the distal end of each of these swollen joints opens to the exterior by a minute aperture, which is readily determined on dissection.
Tlie fact that Limulus is a true arachnid, and probably a relatively primitive one, allows us to use these peculiarities of structure as a partial basis for explaining the araneid mode of copulation; though the following reasoning would hold equally good, even if Limulus should be left out of the question.
The palpal organs of male araneids must have been originally clasping organs, to hold the female.
Supposing the terminal joints of the male palpi clasped the female in the region of her genital aperture, around which developed a hard chitinous plate, the epigynum, which would allow a firm hold without injury to the female, then if the original mode of embrace were that where the ventral surfaces of the copulating individuals were apposed, these two suppositions would explain the copulation of modern araneids.
Depressions in the epigynum would be developed to correspond to projections upon the palpal organs.
The surfaces of the palpal organs, which are apposed to one another during the act of clasping, could become in time so modified as to form together a tube to guide the seminal fluid from the genital aperture of the male into that of the female.
They would thus change from mere clasping organs to intromittent sexual organs, and then perhaps the other legs come into use as clasping organs, which is their use in copulation in modern araneids.
Subsequent would be the development of the compHcated tubular apparatus within each palpal organ; and when this were finally developed, the habit of charging the palpi \\dth sperm before the copulation would be involved, and then diversity in embrace and modes of application of the palpi could follow.
There is still another thinkable mode of origin of the araneid mode of copulation.
The pedipalpi might be used, not as claspers in the first instance, but to carry drops of semen during the act of copulation from the genital aperture of the male to that of the female; later, the male during copulation might discharge his semen upon the web, and then take up the semen with his palpi and apply it to the female ; still later, the charging of the palpi with the semen would come to be an act separate from the copulation.
One or the other of these has been prol3ably the mode of origin of the habit, but which cannot be decided until observations have been made upon the mating of the most primitive Hving araneids, the Tetrapneumones.
Very apposite in this connection are the interesting and detailed observations of my friend Heymons* upon Galeodes.
In this primitive arachnid the male forcibly seizes the female, holds •"'Biologische Beobachtungen an asiatischen Solifugen," Abh.
Preuss.
Akad.
Wiss.
Berlin, 1901. her with her legs, she falling into a state of torpor in his embrace.
With his chelicera he pinches the ventral surface of her abdomen, which is turned toward his, until he finds the cleft of her genital orifice.
"Die Cheliceren werden herausgezogen, nochmals eingebohrt, und das Mannchen kneift auch wohl wiederholt mit denselben in die weichen Wandungen des Ostium genitale.
Es dauert nicht lange, so tritt die ganze weibliche Genitalpartie wulstformig hervor, und die Genitaloffnung wird als ein klaffender Spalt erkennbar.
Die Erregung des Mannchens hat nunmehr den Hohepunkt erreicht ; zitternd bewegt es beide Maxillarpalpen und hebt den Hintcrleib ein wenig, aus dessen Genitaloffnung ein zahfliissiger klebriger Spermaballen hervorquillt.
Kaum ist dieser auf den Boden gelangt, so wird er auch schon blitzschnell von den Cheliceren des jMiinnchens aufgenommen und an die weibliche Genitaloffnung gebracht.
Hierauf stopft das Mannchen, abwechselnd die rechte und linke Chelicere benutzend, die zahe Spermamasse in die Oeffnung hinein, wobei es wieder mit grosser Gewaltthatigkeit zu Werke geht."
The process is simpler in Gakodes, inasmuch as the sperm is discharged during the act of copulation, and inasmuch as the terminal joints of the chelicera do not possess anyintricate tubular apparatus for holding the sperm.
But the araneid copulation cannot be derived from the galeolid, since in the former the pedipalpi, in the latter the chehcera, are employed.
In the Acarina and Scorpionidea there are intromittent organs (penis) in the male, placed near the genital orifice.^ Number of Copulations.
— In araneids the male is able to perform a number of successive copulations, with the same or wath different females, without being exhausted; this fact may be brought into relation with the fact that before each act of sperm-induction only a small drop of sperm is discharged, and by no means the whole contents of the testes.
One act of fertilization is in some cases sufficient to fertilize a number of cocoons, yet not infrequently several distinct copulations may precede one cocooning.
This is in contrast to the case in insects, where the male generally performs a single act of copulation, and dies of exhaustion after it.
The female sometimes kills the male after copulation, but this is by no means so general as usually supposed, ^In all insects the intromittent organ of the male is organically connected with the vas deferens, except in the Odonata where, as is well kno-v\Ti, this organ is placed on the second abdominal segment, and the male holds the head of the female with the claspers of his last abdominal segment.
My colleague, Dr. P. P. Calvert, the well-known monographer of the Odonata, tells me that he has seen the male charge his penis with semen just before copulation by bringing his sexual orifice against this organ.
for frequently both sexes may live in harmony for a considerable length of time.
The reason that in many species the females appear more abundant than the males (particularly in Epeiridce), is not to be ascribed to any initial disparity in the number of the sexes, nor yet to the males being killed by the females, but to the females being of stronger constitution.
Thus, in the case of the individuals watched by me, the males died sooner from hunger and thirst than did the females, and each act of copulation appeared to diminish their vitality.
When one collects in the early part of the mating season the males are generally found fully as abundant as the females, while later in the year they may become, in some species, very rare.
Parthenogenesis.
— Two cases of apparent true parthenogenesis, with the production of fertile eggs, have been described by Campbell (1S83) and Damin (1893).
A number of females observed by Blackwall (1845), where he excluded males and kept the females through a number of moults, made cocoons and laid eggs, but the latter proved infertile.
Eggs frequently prove infertile even after copulation, according to my own observations.
Parthenogenesis, with the production of fertile eggs, is then very rare among spiders, and it is probable that most species do not show it at all.
Blackwall's observations (1845a) are quite decisive upon this point.
A very curious case is that described by Doumerc (1840) of a Theridium triangulifer which made successive cocoons, out of some of which only male spiderlings developed, out of others only females.
This is a phenomenon well worth critical study.
Cocooning, Oviposition.
— I shall not attempt to give here a comparative study of cocoon-architecture; that subject has been well treated by Wagner, and much less accurately by McCook; but shall simply call attention to the similarity that exists among all observed species in the general modes of cocoon-making and oviposition.
The first stages of this process have not been frequently described, and the following list comprises all the observations on the subject : Leeuwenhoek, Menge {Lycosa, Tegenaria, Gnaphosa, Micaria, Philodromus) , Emerton {Epeira), McCook {Lycosa), Henking {Lycosa), Pokrowsky {Pholcus), Warburton {Agalena), Wagner's excellent studies on a number of species, and my own {Lycosa stonei, L. lepida, L. punctulata, L. ocreata pulchra, Pardosa nigripalpis, Pirata liber, Tegenaria derhami, Theridium tepidariorum, Teutana.).
In all of these the spider spins first a base, oviposits upon it, then spins a cover over it; all araneid cocoons are made in this way.
McCook (1890) distinguishes three kinds of cocoons, and states of the third kind (supposed to be characteristic of the Lycosidce) : the spider spins "a single sheet, within which the eggs are deposited, which is subsequently pulled over the egg mass, and pinched by the jaws into a globular covering, the selvage of which is united with sufficient firmness to adhere until the spiders are ready to leave the cocoon."
As a matter of fact, such a type is not known among spiders.
McCook had based it upon an imperfect observation of his own (in 1884); Menge had described the process in Lycosa correctly as long ago as 1843, and Henking, Wagner and I corroborate Menge, that the cocoon is made in the Lycosidce of two separate portions, a base and a cover.
No matter what the final shape of the cocoon may be, nor how the mother places or carries her cocoon, it is always made of two separate portions.
These may each be a disk (Lycosidw, Drassidce, Thomisidce, Dictynidce, Agalenidce) , or the base may be a spherical ball of silk (some Theridiidce).
The mode of oviposition also appears to be uniform in araneids ; the eggs are discharged upon the base of the cocoon included in a large drop of fluid of very viscid consistency; this drop serves to retain the ova in a compact mass, and to protect them from the air before the cover of the cocoon is made.
This drop of fluid is of such bulk that only a small portion, if any, of it can consist of semen, and it is probably a secretion of glands connected with the female generative apparatus.
Bertkau was unable to find spermatozoa within this fluid.
The act of oviposition does not weaken the spider, and in some species one individual produces a number of cocoons in succession.
Females have l^een known to live for several years.
Care of the Cocoons and Young.
— The Lycosidce, as is well known, carry the cocoon attached to the spinnerets, and carry the young upon their bodies for some time after hatching; but the mother does not feed the young, as Kirby supposed.
The Lycosid genera Dolomedes and Ocyale, however, carry their cocoons in a different manner and build a nest for the young.
I have seen also that the mother bites open the cocoon to allow the escape of the young.
Many of the Thomisidce also guard their cocoon, embracing it for long periods at a time, as has been observed in Thomisus, Olios and Xysticus.
Some Theridiids also guard their cocoons and carry them about; there is a very remarkable case of maternal solicitude described by Kathariner for Stegodyphus lineatus; and Seidel states that all the Theridiids which carry their cocoons about bite them open to allow the escape of the young.
The Attid Salticus has also been described as a cocoonguarder.
One Drassid I have found to hold her cocoon and carry it about.
Pholcus is also a well-known example, holding her cocoon in her jaws, but she does not remain holding it continuously until it hatches, but I have found will hang the cocoon upon the web in order to feed and to clean herself.
McCook has given a broad general accomit of the degrees of maternity among spiders, and I will go into the subject here no further than to state that in most families and species there is no marked maternal solicitude for the cocoons and young.
The case of the Drassidce, when the female is generally found near her cocoon, is not a case of maternal solicitude, but the mother remains near the cocoon because she chanced to place it in her narrow domicile; an exception is found in Drassus ncglectus, described in the preceding pages.
Courtship.
— It is difficult to define what has been called "courtship" in animals ; a general definition would be : the performance, immediately preceding the copulation, of peculiar motions by the male.
But this is hardly an adequate definition, for an eager male always acts differently in the presence of a mature female than he does at other times.
We should then have to say "a rhythmically repeated set of motions on the part of the male, continued for some time before copulation."
Using the idea of courtship in this sense, we find a courtship in two families of araneids, each of whom construct no webs, namely, the Attidce and the Lycosidce.
The courtship of the Attidce has been described for a considerable number of species by the Peckhams, and these authors have studied it particularly with regard to the relative value of the theories of Sexual Selection expressed by Darwin and Wallace.
They find the courtship of the Attids to consist sometimes in dances, sometimes in remarkable posturings, sometimes in a waving of the legs or palpi by the male; and they interpret these motions as in each case an exhibition before the female of bright colors and peculiar structures by the male.
The Attidce are the most brilliantly colored of all the spiders, and some of them evince courtship motions to a degree not shown by any others.
Menge and Treat have briefly noted courtship motions among Lycosidce, and I have described them in the earlier part of this paper for Pardosa nigropalpis, Lycosa stonei, L. lepida and L. scutulata.
Without repeating the details of the observations, it may be stated that the actions of the male consist in a rhythmical motion of the first pair of legs (waving in the air or tapping upon the ground), sometimes accompanied by waving of the palpi.
I have not found in my own studies, nor do I find in the observations of others, indications of true courtship in any other araneid families.
To be sure, in web-makers like the Pholcidce, Theridiidce and Epeiridce, the males communicate signals to females, and are answered by them, by pulls upon the web-lines connecting the two individuals.
And in some Agalenidce, as Tegenaria derhami, the males approach the females very slowly at first, tapping upon the horizontal sheet of the web with their palpi and first pair of legs.
But such motions on the part of the male should be interpreted rather as signals of the male to determine the sex and the degree of eagerness in his partner, than as a courtship proper.
Similar are the approaches of the Dictynids.
The male in the Thomisidcc {Xysticiis stomachosus) makes no preliminary motions whatsoever, but as soon as he touches the female seeks to immediately mount upon her back.
The question of the psychology of courtship among animals is a very great one.
How, in the first place, does one sex recognize the other as such?
One of the greatest wonders in the study of animal habits, though it is so general that its strangeness is overlooked, is that one individual, before it has once experienced an act of union with an individual of the other sex, has the sense that that other individual can gratify its desire, and can unerringly perform that act.
In the spider it is still more remarkable, for the male has first to perform the act of charging the palpi with sperm.
This is no act of mere automatism ; here the animal shows most truly that it cannot be compared with a machine.
''Gonotropism" is a mere name and does not explain nor classify the process.
Broad questions like this one must be elucidated before we can hope for any adequate explanation of courtship, a performance of secondary importance, and consequently I would call attention here merely to certain peculiarities in the courtship of spiders.
In the first place, courtship is primarily an expression of eagerness upon the part of the male.
The male is mature, and the recognition of the opposite sex in a state of maturity also stimulates him to the excess of desire.
It may be at first a mental state, which then reflects upon the organization and perturbs the latter.
Great excitement finds expression in muscular activity, and hence the peculiar, exaggerated movements corresponding to an abnormal state of stimulation.
In some animals the male, once so excited, rushes at the female; in other he does not do so immediately, but goes through a preliminary set of motions, which may be termed courtship when they are regular and more or less rhythmical.
Now in the case of the araneids, whj^ does not the male immediately hasten to the female, since by so doing he would most quickly gratify his desire?
Several answers might be suggested: (1) that the male seeks to reach the highest pitch of excitement, or waits until that state is reached, before approaching the female — having, as it were, a pleasure in the state of excitement itself ; or that (2) he strives first to assure himself of the eagerness of the female; or that (3) he strives first to stimulate the female to equal eagerness.
The first of these answers probably accounts for a certain part of the delay before the act of coition, but not for all of it.
The second answer, I think, accounts for the remaining part of the delay, while the third answer is hardly admissible, and for the following reason : Deep-rooted in every spider is caution in approaching another individual, particularly upon a foreign web (and in web-making species the male always approaches the female upon her own web).
This is well marked in Epeirids; the male approaches and retreats many times tentatively until he assures himself, by the female remaining quiet, that she is not hostile to him.
A decided attack by the female, and I have found the male to generally cease his approaches.
His peculiar motions during his approach, be they courtship or not, are referable to his excitement.
The approach is then marked by a combination of fear and of intense excitement, more or less restrained by this habit of fear.
Certain attitudes of the male, in the Attidce particularly, as the Peckhams have demonstrated, are such as to exhibit most clearly before the female sexual beauties or eccentricities of form or color.
But the point which I wish to emphasize is, that there is no evidence that the male is conscious of exciting the female thereby; by such motions and attitudes she certainly recognizes him as a male, and perhaps is herself stimulated to a state of sexual desire, but the male does not carry out these performances in order to stimulate her.
In the Lycosids with a decided courtship, a part of the courtship is a straightening out before him of his first pair of legs by the male, and then a withdrawal of them.
But this is only an exaggerated performance of motions that he exhibits in other mental states ; these legs are his main organs of touch as he walks, and also his main organs of guard; they are used similarly by the female.
Each sex, in answer to an act of hostility, elevates these legs and directs them forward.
Here is an act of caution, and the male in courtship simply exaggerates the expression of this act.
Now in two of our American species, Lycosa ocreata and Lycosa stonei, the tibise of this pair of legs are thickly furred with black hairs, making them very conspicuous.
In Lycosa stonei the male in his courtship waves these legs so as to show their furring to the female, but waves them in approximately the same manner as do Lycosids which possess no such secondary sexual ornaments.
But the male of L. ocreata does not wave these legs.
Certain Attids, according to the account of the Peckhams, exhibit courtship motions of such a very bizarre nature that they would seem at first sight as not referable to movements shown when the male is not sexually excited; yet some of them may be found to be excessive expressions of some of the latter group of movements.
Thus the motions of the male in courtship are to be directly explained as a muscular expression of his intense eagerness, of vitality in its highest state; though some, at least, of these motions are merely exaggerated repetitions of movements which he performs under other conditions.
Such performances probably do stimulate sexual eagerness in the female, by advertising the performer as a male; but there is no evidence that the male consciously performs for that end.
It is as a man under the influence of strong drink : smiles are produced by his antics, but he does not consciously occasion the smiles.
The male alone does not make all the approaches, but sometimes the female likewise.
Thus in Lycosa scutulata the female taps the male with her legs when she is willing for copulation, and the females of the other Lycosids studied by me bend their heads down to the ground as a similar indication.
The female of Theridium tepidariorum signals very energetically to the male, by repeated pulls upon the wel)lines, and appears to be first in the courtship.
Other females, as of the Pholcida and some Epeirida;, give no active expression of readiness, but by remaining perfectly quiet, thereby not showing hostility, assure the males of their willingness.
The only case I know of when the male seizes the female l^y storm is Tegenaria derhami.
Since the male ceases his courtship as soon as the female gives the signal of desire on her part, very plainly a portion of the delay before the copulation is due to the male testing the eagerness of the female.
Sexual selection may well be, in some cases, the process which has occasioned secondary sexual differences, and in the case of the spiders the view of the Peckhams in this matter is probably correct.
That is to say, the differences in the males are due, not to "greater vitality" of the male sex, but to selection by the females.
Yet I would make the point that there is no evidence that the females are influenced by any esthetic sense of the beautififl in males — that the females do not select males that seem most beautiful to them; but that they select those males which, by peculiarities in movements, color or form, most quickly and certainly announce their sex.
Other things beingequal, the male that is most eager would be most active in his courtship motions, and would stand the chance of being selected by the expectant female, since he would be advertising his sex most prominently ; and not because he would a}:)peal to her as more beautiful or graceful than other males.
These views as to the origin and meaning of courtship in spiders may be briefly summarized as follows : The mature male is stimulated to great excitement by a perception, visual and tactual, of a mature virgin female, and this excitement finds its expression in muscular movements.
The male does not immediately embrace the female, for in most spiders he is the weaker individual, but delays in order to first determine whether the female is eager or hostile.
Rhythmically repeated motions of the male during this period of delay constitute courtship, and these motions are for the most part exaggerations of ordinary motions of fear and timidity.
By such motions he advertises himself to the female as a male, but there is no proof that he consciously seeks to arouse her eagerness by aesthetic display.
That male is accepted by the female who most quickly and surely announces himself, by his rhythmic movements, to be a male; and thei'e seems to be no good reason to hold that the female is actuated in her choice by sensations of beauty.
If such a process be interpreted as sexual selection, it would be a selection of the male who most determinedly announces himself to be a male, and not as the male who appeals to the female as the inost beautiful.
Post-nuptial moult.
— It is generally believed that in araneids the final moult precedes the mating.
But Bertkau (1885) has shown that in Atypus piceus a moult, with change of the seminal receptacles, occurs after the first year of oviposition; and I have described here for Lycosa ocreata pulchra a moult following a successful copulation.
Accordingly, in some cases a moult may follow the mating ; and probably this will be found to be general in species that five several years, since increase in body size occasioned by rich feeding would appear to necessarily induce further moults.
Wagner (1888) has described the histological changes of moult.
I would simply add here that the moult in all the spiders observed by me follows the same plan: a horizontal split of the old skin along the sides of the abdomen and of the cephalothorax (here just above the legs and the jaws), so that the skin breaks into a dorsal and ventral piece.
This is quite different from the process of moult in insects and crustaceans.
10 146 proceedings of the academy of [jan., Literature on Parthenogenesis, Sperjm-induction, Mating, OVIPOSITION, COCOONING AND CaRE OF EgGS AND Young in Spiders.
(An asterisk denotes that the paper was not accessible.)
1847.
Adams, A.
Notes on the Habits of Certain Exotic Spiders.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 20.
1867.
AussERER, A. Beobachtungen uber Lebensweise, Fortpflanzung und Entwicklung der Spinnen.
Zeit.
d. Ferdinandeums f. Tirol.
.
*1878a.
Becker, L. Quelques mots sur les travaux des Araignees.
1878&.
Becker.
De I'amour maternel chez I'Araignee.
Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., 21.
1880.
Becker.
Sur les moeurs de deux especes de Lycoses.
Compt.
Rend.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., 23.
*1S69.
Beling.
Beobachtungen der Spinnen.
Aus.
der Natur., 49.
1875a.
Bertkau, P. Ueber den Generationsapparat der Araneiden.
Ein Beitrag zur Anatomic und Biologie derselben.
Arch.
f.
Naturgesch., 41.
18756.
Bertkau.
Wann und wo bei den Araneiden die Vereinigimg der beiderseitigen Gesclilechtsprodukte, also die Befruchtung der Eier Statt finde.
Sitzb.
Naturh.
Ver.
preuss.
Rheinl.
u.
Westf., 32.
1876.
Bertkau.
Erneute Beobachtung iiber das Einbringen des Samens in den mannlichen Palpus der Spinnen.
Ibid., 33.
1885.
Bertkau.
Ueber den Saisondimorphismus und einige andere Lebenserscheinungen bei Spinnen.
Zool.
Anz., 8.
1889.
Bertkau.
Ueber ein "Begattungszeichen" bei Spinnen.
Ibid., 12.
1894.
Bertkau.
Beitrag zur Kenntnis des Begattungsvorgangs bei den Spinnen.
Sitzb.
Naturh.
Ver.
preuss.
Rheinl.
u.
Westf., 51.
*1834a.
Blackwall, J. Ueber die Begattungsart der Clubiona parvula.
Froriep's Notizen.
18346.
Blackwall.
Observations Relative to the Structure and Functions of Spiders.
Third Report Brit.
Assoc.
Adv.
Sci.
Trans.
1843.
Blackwall.
On the Palpi of Spiders.
Ibid., Twelfth Report.
1845a.
Blackwall.
Report on Some Recent Researches into the Structure, Functions and Economy of the Araneida made in Great Britain.
Ibid., Fourteenth Report.
18456.
Blackwall.
Researches into the Structure, Functions and Economjof the Araneida.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., 15.
1861.
Blackwall.
A History of the Spiders of Great Britain and Ireland.
Ray Society, London.
1863.
Blackwall.
A Succinct Review of Recent Attempts to Explain Several Remarkable Facts in the Physiologj^ of Spiders and Insects.
Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
London, 6.
1857.
Blanchard.
E. Observations relatives k la generation des Arachnides.
Compt.
Rend.
Acad.
Sci.
Paris, 44.
1860.
Blanchard.
De la f econdation et du liquide seminal chez les Arachnides.
Ibid., 50.
*1868.
BoNizzi, P. Sulla generazione del Pholcus phalangoides Walck.
Annuar.
Soc.
Nat.
Modena, 3.
*1772.
BuscHiNG, A. F. Eigene Gedanken und gesammelte Naclu-ichten von der Tarantel, etc.
Berlin.
*1S95.
Camboue, p. Psychique de la Bete.
L'Araignee.
Rev.
Sci.
Nat.
(2), 6.
1868.
Cambridge, O. P. Numerical Proportion of Sexes among Spiders.
Zoologist (2), 3.
1873.
Cambridge.
An Introduction to the Study and Collection of the Araneida in New Zealand.
Trans.
Proc.
New Zeal.
Inst., 6.
1883.
Campbell, F. M. On a Probable Case of Parthenogenesis in the HouseSpider (Tegenaria Guyonii).
Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
London, 16.
1884.
Campbell.
On the Pairing of Tegenaria Guyonii.
Ibid., 17.
*1876.
Cavanna, G. Studi e ricerche d'aracnologia.
5.
SuUa nidificazione degli Araneidi d'Europa.
Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Hal., 8.
1757.
Clerck, C. Aranei suecici.
Stockholm.
1893.
Damin, N. Ueber Parthenogenesis bei Spinncn.
Verh.
zool.-bot.
Ges.
Wien, 43.
177S.
De Geer, C. Mcmoires pour serrir a VHistoire des Insectes.
T. 7.
Stockhohn.
*1887.
DdNiTZ.
Ueber die Lebensweise zwcier ^'ogelspinnen aus Japan.
Sitzb.
nat.
Ges.
Freiburg.
1840.
DouMERC.
Notice sur les cocons a pontes unisexuelhpares de I'araneide Theridion trianguhfer Walck.
Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France, 9.
1836.
DuGEs, A. Observations sur les Araneides.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
(2), 6.
1877.
Emerton, J. H. Cocoon-making and Egg-laying of Spiders.
Psyche, 2.
1878.
Emerton.
The Structure and Habits of Spiders.
Salem.
1880.
Emertox.
Breeding Habits of Spiders.
Amer.
Nat., 14.
1882.
Emerton.
New England Spiders of the Family Therididff.
Trans.
Connecticut Acad., 6.
1884.
Emerton.
New England Spiders of the Family Epeirida;.
Ibid.
1888.
Emerton.
New England Spiders of the Family Ciniflonida?.
Ibid.
1889.
Emerton.
Pairing of Xysticus triguttatus.
Psyche, 5 1890.
Emerton.
New England Spiders of the Families Drassidae, Agalenidae and Dysderidte.
Trans.
Connecticut Acad., 8.
1885.
Enock, F. The Life-history of Atypus piceus.
Sulz.
Trans.
Entom .
Soc.
London.
*1875.
Fickert, C. Myriapoden und Araneiden vom Kamme des Riesengebirges.
*1S58.
Hasselt, A. W. M. van.
Over de levenswijze van Argyroneta aquatica.
Tijdschr.
v.
Entom., 2.
* 1870a.
Hasselt.
Over de betteekenis van dcr mannelijke spinnen bij de paring.
Ibid., 13.
*18706.
Hasselt.
,Studien over Pholcus opilionoides Schr.
Ibid., 13.
1870c.
Hasselt.
Etudes sur le Pholcus opilionoides Schrank.
Arch, neerl.
sci.
exact et nat.
La Haye, 5.
*1871.
Hasselt.
Over Spinnen-cocons.
Verh.
Ahad.
Wetensch.
Amsterdam, 14.
1872.
Hasselt.
Observation de la copulation chez I'une des plus petites especes d'araignees (Micryphantes s. Erigone rurestris C. Koch).
Arch.
neerl.
sci.
exact et nat., 7.
*1873.
H.A.SSELT.
Waarneming de copulatie bij eene der kleinste spinsorten (Micryphantes rurestris C. Koch).
Tijdschr.
v.
Entom., 16.
*1875.
Hasselt.
Geschiedenis van ecn spimien-cocon (Agelena s. Agroeca brunnea Blackw.).
Ibid., 19.
1876a.
Hasselt.
Histoire d'un cocon d'araignee (Agalena s. Agroeca brunnea Blackw.).
Arch, neerl.
sci.
nat., 11.
* 18766.
Hasselt.
Fleschvormige cocon van Agelena brunnea Blackw.
Tijdschr.
V.
Entom., 23, 1835.
Heinecken, C. Entomological Notices.
Zool.
Journ.
London, 5.
1891.
Henking, H. Die Wolfspinne und ihr Eicocon.
Spengel's Zool.
Jahrb., System.
Abth.
5.
1875.
Hentz, ]M. The Spiders of the United States.
Edited by Burgess.
Boston.
*1867.
Herman, O. Jahrb.
siebenbiirg.
Museumsverein Klausenburg, 4.
1868.
Herman.
Ueber das Sexualorgan der Epeira quadrata Walck.
Verh.
zool.-bot.
Ges.
Wien, 18.
.*1878.
Holmgren, E. L. Caso de partenogenosis en una Arana.
Periodica zoologico, 2.
1901.
Kathariner, L. Beobachtungen iiber die Brutpfiege einer Spinne (Stegodyphus lineatus Latr.).
Biol.
Centralbl., 21.
1849.
Kessler.
Beitrag zur Naturgeschichte und Anatomic der Gattung Lycosa.
Bull.
Soc.
Imper.
Nat.
Moscow, 22.
1846.
KiRRY, W., and Spence, W. An' Introduction to Entomology.
FroT;> Sixth English Edition.
Philadelphia.. *1878.
Lebert, H. Bail und Leben der Spinnen, Berlin.
1701.
Leeuwexhoek.
A Letter from Mr. Anthony van Leeuwenhoek, F.R.S.
concerning Spiders, their Way of KiUing their Prey, Spinning their Webs, Generation, etc.
Phil.
Trans.
Roy.
Soc.
London, 22.
1886.
Lendl, a. Ueber die Begattung der gekronten Kreuzspinne (Epeira diadeniata CI.).
Term.
Fiizetek, Budapest, 10.
1887.
Lendl.
Ueber die Begattung und die Copulationsorgane von Trocliosa infernaUs Motsch.
Ibid., 11.
1742.
Lesser.
Theologie des InsCctes.
Traduit .... par Mr. P. Lyonnet.
T. 1.
LaHaye.
1748.
LiGNAC, J.
A. L. de.
Mcmoire povr servir a commencer Vhistoire des Araignees aquatiques.
Paris.
1678.
Lister, M. Historice Animalium Angliu; .
.
.
.
De araneis.
London.
*1778.
Lister.
Naiurgeschichte der Sjnnnen iibcrhaupt , etc.
Quedhnburg and Blankenburg.
1871.
Lucas, H. (De I'Ohos venatorius.)
Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
France Bull.
de Seances.
1829.
Lyonnet.
Anatomic de differentes Especes d'Insectes.
Araignees.
Mem.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
Paris, 18.
1879.
McCooK, H. C. Pairing of Spiders, Linyphia marginata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia.
1884.
McCooK.
How Lycosa Fabricates Her Round Cocoon.
Ibid.
1890.
McCooK.
American Spiders and Their Spiiining Work.
\o\.
2.
Pliihidelphia.
*1793.
Martyn, T. Aranei: or the Natural History of Spiders, etc.
London.
1843.
Menge, a. Ueber die Lebensweise der Arachniden.
Neueste Schr.
naturf.
Ges.
Danzig, 4 1866.
Menge.
Preussische Spinnen.
1.
Schr.
naturf.
Ges.
Danzig (N.F.
), 1.
1868.
Menge.
Idem, 3.
Ibid., 2 1871.
Menge.
Idem, 4.
Ibid.
1872.
Menge.
Idem, 5.
Ibid, 3.
1873.
Menge.
Idem, 6.
Ibid.
1874.
Menge.
Idem, 7.
Ibid.
1876.
Menge.
Idem, 9.
Ibid., 4.
1877.
Menge.
Idem, 10.
Ibid.
1878.
Menge.
Idetn, 11.
Ibid.
*1790.
Meyer, F. A.
A. Ueber einige Spinnen der Guttinger Gegend.
Gottingen.
*1866.
Ohlert, E. Ueber das Leben der Spinnen.
Altpreuss.
Monatschr., 3.
1887.
Peckham, G. W. and E. G. Some observations on the Mental Powers of Spiders.
Journ.
Mar ph., 1.
1889a.
Peckham.
Observations on Sexual Selection in Spiders of the Family Attidse.
Occas.
Papers.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wisconsin, 1.
18896.
Peckham.
Protective Resemblances in Spiders.
Ibid.
1890.
Peckhaji.
Additional Observations on Sexual Selection in Spiders of the Family Attidic.
Ibid., 2 1899.
PoKRowsKY, S. Beobachtungen iiber das Eierablegen bei Pholcus.
Zool.
Anz., 22.
1866.
Prach.
Monographic der Thomisiden (Krabbenspinnen) der Gegend von Prag, etc.
Verh.
zool.-bot.
Ges.
Wien, 10.
1798.
Quatremere-Disjonval.
Araneologie odcr Naturgeschichte der Spinnen, etc.
Aus.
d. Franzosischen d. 2ten Ausgal^e iibersetzt.
Frankfurt a. M. *1872.
RiTSEMA, C. C. Waarneming omtrent de copulatie der Spinnen.
Tijdschr.
v.
Entom., 15.
1847.
Seidel.
Einige Beobachtungen an Spinnen.
UebersicJtt d.. Arbeit, u. Verand.
d. Schles.
Ges.
raterldnd.
Kidtur, Breslau.
1864.
Simon, E. Ilistoire naturelle des Araiqnies.
Paris.
1874.
Simon.
Les Arachnides de France.
Paris.
*1882.
SoRENSEN, W. Sur le rapprochement des sexes chez cjuclques Araignees.
Tidjschr.
v.
Entom., 1.
1866.
Termeyer, R. M. de.
Researches and Experiments upon Silk from Spiders, and upon their Reproduction.
Transl.
from the Italian by B. G. Wilder.
Proc.
Essex Inst., .5.
1870-1873.
Thorell, T. Remarks on Synompns of European Spiders.
Upsala.
*1849.
ToTi, L. Ueber die Lebensweise der Spinnen.
Neujahrsstiicke Zurch.
naturf.
Ges.
1879.
Treat, M. The Habits of a Tarantula.
Amer.
Nat., 13.
1812.
Treviranus, G. R. Ueber den inneren Ban der Arachniden.
Ntirnberg.
1888.
Wagner, AV.
La Mue des Araignees.
Ann.
Set.
Nat.
(7) Zool., 6.
1894.
Wagner.
LTndustrie des Araneina.
Mern.Iniper.Acad.Sci.St.Petersbourg (8), 42.
1837.
Walckenaer.
Histoire naturelle des Insectes, Apteres.
Suites a Buffon, 2.
Paris.
1891.
Warburton, C. The Oviposition and Cocoon-weaving of Agelena labyrinthica.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), 8.
*1893. "
Warburton.
On the Oviposition of Agelena labyrinthica.
Proc.
Cambridge Sac, 7.
1900.
Westberg, p. Aus dem Leben der Spinnen, 5.
Zur Begattung von Linj'phia triangularis (var.
macrognatha und micrognatha Menge).
Korrespendenzbl.
naturf .-Ver.
Riga, 43.
*1828.
Westwood, J. O.
A Note upon tlie Impregnation of the Arachnida.
Zool.
.Journ.
London, 4.
___„ Explanation of Plates IV and V. All the drawings are freehand outline sketches, and as such do not claim to be accurate in all dimensional proportions, though the attitudes are true to nature ami all are studies from life.
The degree of magnification varies in the different figures.
Plate IV, Fig.
1.
— Lateral view of a female Ocyaleundata, hanging in her web and holding her cocoon.
Fig.
2.
— Copulation of Theridium tepidariorum , lateral view at the instant when the male seizes the female.
Fig.
3.— Copulation of Pholcus phalangioides, only the proximal portions of the legs shown.
Fig.
4.
— Copulation of Agalena noivia, the female below and partially upon her side, the male's left palpus applied to the epigynum.
Fig.
5.
— Copulation of Acrosonia gracile, the male with his left palpus applied to the epigynum ; the male is drawn proportionately somewhat too large.
Pl.\te V, Fig.
6.
— Copulation of Dictyna volupis, the left palpus of the male inserted; the third leg of the male and the posterior end of the abdomen of the female are supported by the web.
Fig.
7.
— Copulation of Xysticus stomachosus.
Fig.
8.
— Copulation of Pardosa nigropalpis, lateral view, the male with his left palpus inserted.
Fig.
9.
— A female Pardosa nigropalpis holding her cocoon beneath her cephalothorax; this is the attitude when she finishes spinning the cover of the cocoon, and when she bites it open to free the young.
Fig.
10.
— Copulation of Lycosa stonei, dorsal view, the male inserting his right palpus, the cephalothorax of the female hidden by the male.
150 proceedings of the academy of [feb., February 3.
The President, Samuel G. Dixox.
M.D.. in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: "New Lithobii from California and Oregon," by Ralph V. Chaniberlin.
"Descriptions of Several Fishes from Zanzibar Island, Two of which are New" by Henry W. Fowler.
The death of Anthonv J. Antelo.
a member, was announced.
February 10.
The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D.. in the Chair.
Sixteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: "A Revision of the Orthopterous Genus Homoeogamia," by James A. G. Rehn.
"Mollusca of Western Kansas and Adjacent States, with a Revision of Paravitrea," bj^ Henry A. Pilsbry.
"A Revision of the North American Ants of the Genus Leptothorax Mayr," by William Morton Wheeler.
February 17.
Mr. Arthur Erwix Browx, A'ice-President, in the chair.
Nine persons present.
A paper entitled "Notes on the Conrad Collection of Yicksburg Fossils, with Descriptions of New Species," by Thomas L. Casey, was presented for publication.
1903.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
151 February 24.
Mr. Akthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-eight persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for pubUcation: "The Variations of Eutsenia in the Pacific Sub-region," by Arthur Erwin Brown.
"A New Species of Nyctalemon," by Henry Skinner, M.D.
Miss Lucy W. Baird was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : NEW LITHOBII FEOM CALIFOKNIA AND OREGON.
BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN.
Since Dr. Anton Stuxberg published his Lithohioida Ajyiericce Borealis in 1875, very Httle has been added to our knowledge of the Lithobii of the Pacific coast region.
A study of somewhat extensive collections made at various points in California and Oregon during 1902 enables me now to present descriptions of ten species not previously recorded , as well as to identify with certainty various species described by earlier writers.
In the key which follows I have included, in addition to the new forms, also such other related species as seemed proper for purposes of comparison: Analytical Key to Species Considered.
A.
— Coxal pores in several series (Bothropolys).
Qj.
— Angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced.
6i.
— Articles of antennae 28-31 ; pairs of ocelli 30; coxal pores round or oval; length 15-18 mm., width 2.2 mm.
; length of anal legs 6 mm., .
aztecus Humb.
et Sauss.
bj.
— Articles of antennae 42-46; pairs of ocelli 16-21; coxal pores strongly transverse (adults); length 22-23 mm., width 3.3-3.4 mm.
; length of anal legs 10.5 mm., chumasanus sp.
nov. a^.
— Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced.
bi.— Articles of antennae 20; pairs of ocelli 7-9 in 2 series; prosternal teeth 6-6; spines of anal legs 1, 4, 3, 11, 4, 3, 2; length 18 mm monticola Stux.
h^.
— Articles of antennae 23-27 (normally); pairs of ocelh 17-21 in 4 or 5 series; prosternal teeth 8-8 to 13-13; spines of anal legs 1, 3, 2.
1 ; length 20-24 mm., I sierravagus sp.
nov. B.
— Coxal pores in a single series (Lithobius).
flj.
— Angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced.
6.
J — Articles of antennae 26-28; prosternal teeth 2-2; posterior coxae unarmed laterally; spines of penult legs 1, 3, 3, 1, of anal 1 3, 2, 1 .
.
.
.
angelus sp.
nov. 6,.
— Articles of antennae 39-44; prosternal teeth 4-4; posterior coxae armed laterally; spines of penult legs 1, 3, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 3, 1, .
.
.
hellulus sp.
nov. (ij.
— Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced.
6j.
— Posterior coxsp unarmed with spines; ocelli 6 in 2 series; porigerous area of coxse deeply depressed, pores .3, 4, 4, 3; anal legs of c?
conspicuously compressed sublaterally, without produced lobes; length 8 mm., remex sp.
nov. 6,.
— Posterior coxae armed laterally (porigerous area of last coxse not deeply depressed).
Cj.
— Last 3 pairs of coxa?
laterally armed.
f/j.
— OcelU 8-12; spines "of first legs 1,2, 1, of penult 1, 3, 3, 0-1, 3, 3, 1, of anal 1, 3, 3, 0; length 7.5-9 mm., eigenmanni Boll.
f/„.— Ocein 12-15; spines of first legs 2, 3, 2, of penult 1, 3, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 11.5-13 mm., .
.
.
pitophilus sp.
nov. Cj.
— Last two pairs of coxse laterally armed.
d^.
— Anal legs in d^ not specially modified; claw of 9 gonopods tripartite; coxal pores 2, 2, 3, 33, 3.
4, 3, very small; spines of first legs 1 , 2 , 1 , of anal 1 , 3 , 3 , 1 ; length 8-8.5 mm .
, sastiaiius sp.
nov. (h. — Anal legs in c?
not specially modified ; claw of 9 gonopods tripartite; coxal pores 3, 4, 4, 34, 5, 4, 4, large; spines of first legs 1, 3, 1, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 9-10 mm., mesechinus sp.
nov. r/3.
— Tibia of anal legs in d^ produced above into a large peculiar lobe at distal end ; (9 unknown) ; coxal pores 2, 3, 3, 2, small; spines of first legs 1, 3, 2-2, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 0; length 8.8 mm., castellopes sp.
nov. d^.
— Tibia of anal legs in c^ produced into a conspicuous lobe at the superior-interior angle of proximal end ; claw of 9 gonopods tripartite ; coxal pores 3, 4, 4, 3, moderately large; ; spines of first legs 1, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 01, 3, 2, 1; length 10.5-11 mm., clavigerens sp.
nov. f/5.
— Tibia of anal legs in d^ excavated within near proximal joint, at which it and femur are produced inward into a conspicuous lobe; claw of 9 gonopods tripartite; coxal pores 2, 2, 2, 2,-2, 3, 3, 3, small; spines of first legs 1, 2, 1,-2, 3, 2, of anal 1,3, 2, 0; length 7.5-11 mm., utahensis Chaxnh.
dg.
— (c?
not known.)
Claw of 9 gonopods entire; coxal pores 2,3,3,3; spines of first legs 1 , 2, 1 ; of anal 1, 3, 2, 1 ; length 13 mm., ohesus Stux.
1.
Lithobius chumasanus sp.
nov.
Description.
— Ackilts deep-brown to mahogany, legs paler distally, antenna paler distally or not; robust, head and dorsum roughened, more strongly so caudally; entire body rather sparsely pilose with very short hairs, but the last ventral plates more densely provided with longer hairs; antennae on basal joints very sparsely, elsewhere subdensely, clothed with straight stiff hairs; legs sparsely hirsute, the last tarsal joint of anterior legs more densely so beneath.
Head rounded, very nearly equal in length and width.
Antennae moderate, article?
42-46, except the first ones short, the ultimate in length about equal ing the two preceding together.
Ocelli on each side 16-21, arranged in 4 or 5 longitudinal series, large and distinct, the single ocellus ver;y large and vertically oval.
Prosternal teeth 6-6, 7-7, large and subequal.
Spines of first legs 2, 3, 3; penult legs with two claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; anal legs with two claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; last 3 pairs of coxae armed laterally and also dorsally with a stout spine.
Coxal pores 7, 8, 8, 6-8, 8, 8, 7, transverse, oval in immature specimens.
Gonopods of ?
: claw stout, bipartite, the lobes equal or nearly so, sometimes with a very sifiall third lobe on the inner side of claw; basal spines, stout, pointed, flattened distally.
Length of body 22-23 mm.
; width of 8th dorsal plate 3.3-3.4 mm., length of antennae 10 mm.
; length of anal legs 10.5 mm.
Habitat.
— Santa Barbara, Cal.
Etymology.
— From Chumashans, a tribe of Indians of southern California, including those of the Santa Barbara mission.
2.
Lithobius sierravagus sp.
nov.
Description.
— Chestnut, legs and antennae lighter, the latter pale distally (specimens from Tiuckee, Cal.)
to mahogany, with the legs and antennae dark, both legs and antennae rufous distally (specimens from Oregon City, Oreg.
); head and dorsum much roughened, especially so the posterior plates; dorsum glabrous or nearly so; venter very sparsely provided with hairs, the anal and genital segments subdensely so; legs sparsely pilose; antennae uniformly clothed with fine, straight hairs.
Head scarcely wider than long (14: 13.5), the portion back of eyes subquadrangular.
Antennae: articles 23-27, rarely 20. except the first ones, short, the ultimate mostly a little shorter than the two preceding together, the number of articles usually in inverse proportion to length of antennae.
Ocelli on each side : 16-21, in 4 curving series, mostly 1+6, 5, 4, 3 or 14-5, 6, 3, 2.
Prosternal teeth: 8-8 to 13-13. black and conical.
Spines of the first legs 2, 3, 2; penult legs with 3 claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 2; anal legs with the claw single, sometimes with a short spine on the outer ventral surface of base of claw, spines 1, 3, 2.
1: last 2 pairs of coxae armed beneath and laterally.
Coxal pores numerous, in 3-4 series, of varying sizes.
Gonopods of ?
: claws short and stout, tripartite, the lobes short and blunt or rounded, the lateral ones sometimes scarcely indicated; basal spines 3-3, moderate, conical.
Length of body 20-24 mm.
; width of 8th dorsal plate 2.4( 9 )-3.9 mm.
(c^); length of antennae 10-12 mm.
( ?
), 11-16 mm (d^); length of anal legs 10-12 mm.
Habitat.
— Truckee and Shasta Springs, Cal., and Oregon City and Portland, Oreg.
Etymology.
— Sieira from Sierra Nevada Mountains, the home of the species, and Latin vogvs, participle of vagari, to roam or wander over.
3.
Lithobius angelus sp.
nov.
Description.
— Reddish-brown, legs paler, antennae light distally; dorsal plates some^^•hat coarsely punctate, the posterior ones more strongly so ; dorsum glabrous ; venter mostly nearly glabrous, but the posterior plates and the genital and anal segments with more numerous hairs; legs sparsely pilose, antennae densely pilose.
Head wider than long (7.5 :7) (& ) , or subequal in length and width ( 9 ) .
Antennae : articles 26(cJ')-28 (9), articles short, the ultimate about equal in length to the two preceding together.
Ocelli on each side: 12 in 3 longitudinal series (1-1-3.
4, 4).
Prosternal teeth 2-2, acute.
Spines of the first legs 1, 3, 1-1, 3, 2; penult legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 3.
1 ; anal legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 2, 1.
Posterior coxae armed neither beneath nor laterally.
Coxal pores 5, 5, 5 (C), 5, round or suboval.
Oonopods of 9 : claw tripartite; basal spines 2-2, rather stout.
Length of body 14 mm.
(o^)-15 mm.
(9); width of 8th dorsal plate 1.9 mm.
(cr')-1.7 (9) ; length of antennae 4.5 mm.
( 9 )-5 mm.
(d^).
Habitat.
— Los Angeles county, Cal.
Etymology.
— Latin angelus, an angel, the reference being to the locality where found, Los Angeles, "place of angels."
4.
Lithobius bellulus sp.
nov.
Description.
— Body shining testaceous-brown of a reddish tint, head with lower portion of antennae and the posterior dorsal plates darker; legs paler, with a violaceous tinge, legs and antennae lighter colored distally; head and anterior dorsal plates weakly finely roughened, the posterior dorsal plates more strongly so: head and dorsal plates with a icw scattered hairs, more numerous on posterior plates; venter likewise nearly glabrous, except the last plates; antennte uniformly clothed with straight slender hairs of moderate length.
Head but little wider than long (10:9).
Antennse: articles 39-44, mostly very short, the ultimate about equal in length to the two preceding taken together.
Ocelli on each side: 11-13, arranged in 3 series (1 +3, 4, 3-1 +4, 4, 4), somewhat distant from each other.
Prosternal teeth: 4-4, the 2 inner on each side rather closer together than others.
Spines of the first legs 1,3.1; penult legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 3.
2 ; anal legs with 2 claws, spines 1, 3, 3, 1; last 3 pairs of coxse armed laterally with a stout spine, unarmed below or above.
Coxal pores I'ound, moderately large, 5, 5, 5, 4-5, 6, 6, 4 (5).
Gonopods of 9 : claw broad, tripartite, the middle lobe longest, slender and acute, the side lobes short; basal spines 2-2, the outer stouter than the inner and flattened distally.
Length of body 13-16 nmi.
; width of Sth plate 1.6-2 nnn.
; length of antennse 6.3-8 mm.
; length of anal legs 5.4-7 mm.
Habitat.
— Portland., Greg.
Etymology.
— Latin bellulus, of pleasing appearance, graceful.
5.
Lithobius remex sp.
nov.
Description.
— Body brown, legs paler; head smooth; dorsal plates nearly smooth, a little roughened by weak longitudinal folds; head with a few long hairs ; dorsum \\\ih scattered short hairs ; ventral plates smooth and glabrous ; legs sparsely pilose ; antennae rather sparsely clothed with moderately long straight hairs ; prosternum with a few hairs about margin ; claws of prehensorial feet with long hairs at base.
Head cordate, slightly wider than long.
Antennse: articles 20, beyond the second short, except the ultimate Avhich is long, nearly equaling in length the three preceding together.
Ocelli on each side: 6, arranged in 2 series (1+2, 3), deeply pigmented.
Prosternal teeth 2-2.
Spines of the first legs 1, 2, 1; anal legs with the claw single, spines 1, 3, 2, 0, in thecJ' conspicuously expanded in a subvertical direction, the plane of flattening more nearly horizontal distally, not produced into lobes or knots; posterior pairs of coxse without trace of spines.
Coxal pores: pore-bearing groove deep, so that the pores are often visible with difficulty from below, 3, 4, 4, 3, moderate.
Length of body 8 mm.
; width of Sth dorsal plate 1.1 mm.
; length of antennae 2.9 mm.
; length of anal legs 2.9 mm.
Habitat.
— Shasta Springs, Cal.
Etymology.
— Latin remex, an oarsman, the reference being to the flattened anal legs of the d^.
6 Lithobius pitophilus sp.
uov.
Descriptions.
— Brown or chestnut, legs and ventral surface paler, antenna^ rufous at tips; dorsal plates smooth, with a few shallow longitudinal furrows, glabrous; legs and prehensorial jaws sparsely pilose; antennte moderately densely pilose.
Head subcordate, wider than long (7.25:6.75, nearly).
Antennae with 20 articles, the ultimate mostly shorter than the two preceding together.
Ocelli on each side: 12-13 in 3 series (1+3, 5, 3, 4).
Prosternal teeth 2-2, acute.
Spines of first legs 2.
3, 2; penult legs having the claw with 2 accessory spines, spines 1, 3, 3, 2; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0, femur in o ' enlarged distally and the tibial and tarsal joints inflated; posterior coxae unarmed beneath, the last 3 armed dorsally and laterally toward the dorsal surface.
Coxal pores 4, 4, 5, 4-4, 5, 5, 5, small and round.
Gonopods of 9 : claw weakly tripartite or sul)entire; basal spines 2-2, stout.
Length of body 11.5-13 mm.
; width of Sth dorsal plate 1.6-1.8 mm.
; length of antennae 3.5 mm.
; length of anal legs 4 mm.
Habitat.
— Truckee, Cal.
Etymology.
— Greek -tV^^i-.
pine, and fiV-o^.
fond of , loving, i.e., "pine loving," the specimens having been collected in the pine woods al)out Truckee.
7.
Lithobius sastianus sp.
nov.
Description.
— Testaceous-brown, posterior borders of principal dorsal plates mostly darker; legs paler; antennae brown at base, yellow distally, head and dorsal plates hot strongly roughened, the plates with distinct longitudinal rugae ; venter a little roughened ; entire body sparsely pilose, the legs more densely so; antennae moderately densely clothed with long stiff hairs.
Head a little wider than long (5.5-5 A-ery nearly).
Antennae: articles 20, short excepting the first few.
the ultimate a little longer than the two preceding together.
Ocelli on each side : 10, arranged in 3 series (1-1-4, 3, 2), those of the upper row largest, those of the middle row intermediate.
Prosternal teeth 2-2, small.
Spines of the first legs 1.
2, 1 ; penult legs with 1 accessory claw, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 3, 1 ; the last 3 pairs of coxae armed with a spine dorsally, the last 2 also laterally.
Coxal pores very small, round, 2, 2.
3, 3-3, 3, 4, 3.
Gonopods of 9 : claw tripartite, the lobes all short, not very acutely pointed ; basal spines 2-2, acuminate, the two outer longer than the inner ones..
Length of body 8 mm.
( 9 )-8.5 mm.
(o ) ; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.2 mm.
(c^)-1.4 mm.
(9); length of autemioe 2.2 mm.
($)-2.8 mm.
(c?
); length of anal legs 2.2 mm.
( 9 )-2.8 mm.
(d).
Habitat.
— Shasta Springs, Cal.
Etymology.
— The Sastians or Shastans were a tribe of Indians formerly holding the country about Mt.
Shasta, the locality in which the specimens were collected.
8.
Lithobius mesechinus sp.
nov.
Description.
— Testaceous-brown, the legs and antennre yellow, head and dorsal plates smooth or scarcely roughened, glabrous: ventral plates sparsely pilose, the posterior ones more densely so; legs very sparsely pilose; antennae with the ultimate articles sparsely provided with stiff hairs, elsewhere very nearly glabrous.
Head wider than long (7:6.25).
Antennae: articles 19-21, short, the ultimate shorter than the 2 preceding taken together.
Ocelli on each side : 13, arranged in 3 series (1 +5, 4, 3), pale, Prosternal teeth 2-2, pale, small.
Spines of the first legs 1, 3, 1; spines of penult 1, 3, 3, 1-1, 3, 3, 2; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0; last 2 coxse armed laterally toward dorsum and also dorsally ; the.
median ventral spines of legs conspicuously longer than the others.
Gonopods of ?
: claw tripartite, basal spines 2-2, acute.
Length of body 9-10 mm.
; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.5 mm.
: length of antennae 2-3.5 mm,; length of anal legs 3.5 mm.
Habitat.
— ^Meacham, Oreg.
Etymology.
— Greek' iJ.t<yo^^ middle, and l/.v.<(>^^ a hedgehog, spiny object, etc., so named in reference to the long median ventral spines of the legs.
9.
Lithobius castellopes sp.
nov.
Description.
— Brown, legs and antennae paler, yellowish; head and dorsal plates smooth; head sparsely pilose with moderately long hairs; dorsal plates very sparsely pilose, more especially the posterior ones, particularly about the margins; ventral plates, prosternum and prehensorial feet sparsely pilose, the genital segment nearly glabrous below : legs sparsely pilose ; antenna subdensely clothed with rather long stiff hairs.
Head nearly equal in length and width.
Antennae : articles 20, mostly short, the ultimate equal to or a httie longer than the two preceding taken together.
Ocelli on each side : 12, in 3 series (1 +5, 4, 2).
Prosternal teeth 2-2, small.
Spines of the first legs 1, 3, 2-2, 3, 2; penult legs having the claw armed with 2 accessory spines or claws.
spines 1, 3, 3, 1; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0, in the d^ much modified, enlarged, the tibia above at the distal end produced into a large knotty lobe, the lobe truncated posteriorly, sparsely pilose, bearing upon its posterior surface a spine which projects caudally; the last 2 pairs of coxse armed laterally, the last 3 dorsally.
Coxal pores very small, 2, 3, 3, 2 Length of body 8.8 mm.
; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.3 mm.
; length of antennae 3 mm.
; length of anal legs 3 mm.
Habitat.
— Shasta Springs, Cal.
Etymology.
— Latin castellum, a citadel or fortified place, and pes, foot, a name suggested by the appearance of the enlargement on the tibia of the c?
anal legs.
10.
Lithobius clavigerens sp.
nov.
Description.
— Color of body, antennae and last pair of legs brown, other legs yellowish; head and dorsum smooth and glabrous, the head sparsely minutely pimctate; ventral plates and the prosternum with prehensorial feet smooth, sparsely pilose, the last 2 together with the genital and anal segments subdensely pilose ; antennae pilose, the outer surface of the proximal articles subglabrous.
Head sub-round, about equal in length and width, narrowed anteriorly.
Antennae: articles 20, the ultimate about equaling in length the 2 preceding taken together.
Ocelli: 10-14, pale and distinct, in 3 series (1+5, 5, 3).
Prosternal teeth 2-2, moderately small.
Spines of the first legs 1, 3, 2, penult legs with 1 accessory claw, spines 1, 3, 3, 1; anal legs with the claw unarmed, spines 1, 3, 2, 0.
Anal legs in 9 scarcely more slender than in d" ; the exterior and interior superior margins of tibial and tarsal joints extended laterally, making the upper surface flat, the femur compressed in a different plane; the tibia densely punctate beneath, the tarsal joints less densely so; the first tarsal joint with a knob-like swelling at proximal end (absent incJ^); penult legs similarly modified to anal and to a scarcely smaller degree.
In thed^ the anal legs are also swollen along or a httle below the superior margins, but the expanded portions are thicker and not so suggestive of flattening ; tibia marked above for its entire length by a ridge-like swelHng which at the proximal end is produced upward and inward into a conspicuous pilose lobe, tibia sparsely punctate beneath, the tarsal joints more densely so ; in the penult legs the tibia is somewhat similarly modified to that of the anal legs, but the lobe at the proximal end is missing not so strongly modified as in 9 .
Coxal pores small and round, 3, 4, 4, 3.
Gonopods of 2 : claw rather large, tripartite, lobes all acute, the middle one much longest; basal spines 2-2, moderate, subequal, or the inner ones a httle longer.
Length of body 10.5-11 mm.
; width of 8th dorsal plate 1.4-1.5 mm.
; length of antennas and of anal legs each 4 mm.
Habitat.
— Pacific Grove, Cal.
Etymology.
— Latin clavis, a club, and gercns, participle of gerere, to bear; so named because the swelling on the dorsal surface of the tibia in the d^ anal legs suggests a club with the large end placed proximally.
DESCRIPTIONS OF SEVERAL FISHES FROM ZANZIBAR ISLAND, TWO OF WHICH ARE NEW.
BY HENRY W. FOAVLER.
A small collection of fishes has recently been forwardetl to the Academy from Zanzibar Island, East Africa, by Sir Charles Eliot.
At present all of the examples are contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
PLATACID^.
1.
Platax vespertilio (Bloch).
17SS.
Chcctodon vef^pcrtilio Bloch, Ichtliyologie, II, pt.
6, p. 49, Plate 199, fig.
2; Je Fai trouve parmi les poissons qu'on m'a envoyes du Japon.
1866.
Platax vespertilio Playfair, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 64; Aden; Zanzibar [No descr.]
Head 2f ; depth equal to length; D. VI, 35; A.
Ill, 26; P. 18; V. I, 5; scales, in the lateral line to the base of the caudal 66, between the origin of the soft dorsal and the upper curve of the lateral line about 24, and between the latter and the origin of the soft anal 38; width of head 1| in its length; snout 2J; eye 3^; maxillary 3^; interorbital space 2f ; pectoral H; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; ventral If in body.
Body very deep, greatly compressed, more or less trenchant ab()\-o and below, and the greatest depth about midway in the length of body and between the origins of the soft dorsal and anal fins.
Caudal peduncle short, deep and strongly compressed.
Head short, very deep, greatly compressed, and its greatest width at the preopercle considerably wider than any other portion of the bod}-.
The snout is rather long, steep, blunt and rounded above.
Eye small.
high in the head, and a little anterior.
]\louth small.
Inroad and nearly horizontal when closed.
Maxillaiy small, obliquely vertical, and hardly reaching beyond the anterior nostril.
Teeth small, sharppointed, and in rather narrow bands in the jaws.
A'omer and palatines smooth.
Mandible rather broad and slightly protruding, so that the anterior profile of the body forms a bliuit angle at this point.
Tongue not distinct from the floor of the mouth.
Anterior nostrils circular, with the space between less than the space between the posterior pair, 11 and situated much nearer the front rim of the orbit than the tip of the snout.
Interorbital space rather broad and convex.
Gill-opening oblique, and carried forward below the front rim of the pupil.
Gill-rakers short, and in moderate number.
Pseudobranchiae absent.
Gill-filaments very long and numerous.
Peritoneum silvery.
Scales small, finely ctenoid, and arranged in rather narrow vertical series.
The greater basal portions of the vertical fins covered with small scales.
Snout, interorbital space, occipital process, jaws and lower surface of the head naked, otherwise covered with small scales.
No pectoral flap.
Ventral connected at the base by two frena, the outer scaled, and the inner joining the innermost ray with the belly.
Lateral line continuous, strongly arched anteriorly.
Dorsal spines graduated from the first, which is very short, to the last, which is many times its length.
The anterior rays of the soft dorsal and anal are very elongate and produced, those of the former nearly as deep as the body.
They become graduated posteriorly to the last which are very short.
The anal spines are similar to those of the dorsal, only much shorter.
Caudal small, and rather deep.
Pectoral short.
Ventral very long, the outer rays three times the length of the inner, or half the depth of the body.
Color in alcohol dark brown, the soft dorsal and anal blackish.
Caudal blackish at base and sharply defined from the rest of the fin, which is pale straw color.
Pectoral pale brown.
Ventral blackish.
Length 3^ inches.
Two examples.
The larger, which is described above, agrees with Bloch's figure perfectly in the broad vertical fins and the dark sharply defined color on the base of the caudal.
The other has the dorsal, anal, and ventral very much more elongate, and the colors paler.
These fins are blackish, and the outer edge of the ventral is whitish.
No traces are evident of the two vertical bands shown on the anterior part of the body, like those in Ruppell's figure of Platax alhipundat us .
BALISTIDiE.
2.
Balistapus aculeatus (Linna?us).
1758.
[Balistes] aculeatus Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., Ed.
X, p. 328; India.
1866.
Balistes aculeatus Giinther, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 134; Zanzibar.
[No descr.]
1870.
Balistes aculeatus Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., VIII, p. 223; Isle of France; Island of Johanna (Coll.
Dr. Kirk); Zanzibar (Coll.
Lieut.-Col. Playfair); West Coast of Africa; Moluccas; Amboyna (Coll.
M. Frank); China Seas ; Pacific (Coll.
M. Haslar) ; Feejee Islands; Micronesia (Coll.
M. Wright) ; Seychelles (Coll.
Prof. E. P. Wright) ; Mauritius.
1899.
Balistes aculeatus Jatzow and Lenz, Abhand.
Senck.
Naturf.
Gesel., XXI, p. .530; S. Juan de Nova: Zanzibar (Coll.
Dr. Voeltzkow).
[No descr.].
Head 2f ; depth li; D. III-25; A.
21; scales about 42 to base of caudal; width of head 2 in its length; depth of head, measured vertically over posterior rim of orbit, greater than the length of the head by a little over half an eye-diameter; snout If; eye 3f ; interorbital space 3f ; first dorsal spine ly^; base of soft dorsal If; base of anal If; caudal 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3i; pectoral 2f .
Body elongate, somewhat elliptical and strongly compressed.
The greatest depth about the middle of its length, or in the region of the base of the ventral spine.
Caudal peduncle compressed and rather thick.
Head long, angular, the upper profile more or less straight, at least in front, and the lower profile evenly convex.
Snout long, convex above, very oblique, and the cheek compressed.
Eye small, high, very posterior, and about two-fifths the length of the snout.
Mouth small, and with thick fleshy lips.
Jaws nearly equal, the teeth protruding.
Teeth large, powerful, the edges sharp and notched.
Nostrils small, very close together, lateral and in front of the eye above.
Interorbital space, together with the space posterior to the eyes, convex.
Gill-opening small, about two-thirds the interorbital space.
Peritoneum black.
Scales all very rough, those on the head and abdomen all more or less in oblique rows, and those on the trunk in nearly vertical series.
Tubercles on the back between the dorsal fins enlarged, much larger than the three horizontal series of spines on the side of the caudal peduncle.
A number of rather long spines between the ventral spine and the origin of the anal fin.
About five enlarged bones above the base of the pectoral behind the gill-opening.
Origin of the spinous dorsal about over the gill-opening, the first spine very large, robust and rough on the anterior surface, second spine much smaller and slender, and the third minute.
The fin is depressable in a groove.
Soft dorsal and anal opposite, and the rays all of nearly uniform height or about equal to the length of the eye.
Caudal broad, rather deep, and the margin straight.
Pectoral broad, rounded and short.
Ventral spine rather long, freely movable and rough.
Color in alcohol faded more or less uniform brown.
Side with a deep brown band running from the gill-opening to the anterior and posterior rays of the dorsal, leaving a pale area at the middle of the base of this fin.
Below, and running obliquely backward to the base of the anal, are first one broad dark band, and then three narrower.
The dark band from the eye down to the base of the pectoral is distinct, and the dark interorbital space with four narrow connecting lines is also very distinct.
Three series of tubercles on the side of the caudal peduncle blackish.
Membrane of the spinous dorsal blackish, the other fins plain pale brown.
Very indistinct traces of the pale longitudinal lines on the soft dorsal and anal are still evident.
Length 2^^ inches.
One example.
TETRAODONTID^.
3.
Tetraodon aerostaticus (Jenyns).
1842.
Tetrodon aerostaticus Jenyns, Zool.
Voy.
Beagle, Fish, pt.
4, p. 152.
[Locality unknown.]
1866.
Tetrodon lineatus Giinther, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 131; Zanzibar.
[Not of Linnseus.]
1870.
Tetrodon stellatus Gunther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., VIII, p. 294; Port Natal (Coll.
M. Ayres) ; Zanzibar (Coll.
Lieut.-Col. Playfair) ; Amboyna (Colls.
M. Frank, Dr. Bleeker.
Type of Tetrodon astrotaenia Bleeker) ; Japan; Feejee Islands.
[Part, not var.
n and /?.]
Head 2^; depth (not inflated) about 2§; D. 10; A.
10; P. 19; width of head greater than its length by nearly an eye-diameter; snout 2 in the head; eye about 6; interorbital space If; length of dorsal 2^; anal 2f; caudal 2; pectoral 3; width of base of pectoral about 3f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
Body short, broad, and the belly capable of being greatly inflated, the greatest width about the bases of the pectorals.
Caudal peduncle not very long, compressed.
Head large, very broad, rounded or strongly conic above.
Side of the head more or less constricted, and the cheek not very convex.
Snout rather long, rather obtuse, and its upper profile a little concave.
Ej^e rather small, about two-fifths the length of the snout, high, and about midway in the length of the head.
Mouth rather small, broad, its width nearly twice the eye-diameter.
Lips broad, fleshy, covering the greater portions of the teeth.
Teeth large, very powerful, the cutting edges concave and the suture without deep groove or ridges on each side.
Bifid tentacle conspicuous, about the last third of the space between the upper lip and the front margin of the eye.
Interorbital space very broad, nearly flattened in front, and becoming gradually slightly convex posteriorlv.
The internasal space is about one-half as wide as the interorbital.
Gill-opening nearly as wide as the base of the pectoral, or about equal to the internasal space.
Peritoneum silvery.
With the exception of the lips, leases of the fins, and caudal peduncle, the body is covered with rather large conspicuous spines, which are very rough to the touch.
Those on the upper surface are short and sharp, and those on the belly elongate and somewhat clavate.
Origin of the dorsal nearer the tip of the caudal than the posterior margin of the eye, and the fourth ray the longest.
Anal entirely behind the dorsal, the fifth and sixth rays the longest, and, like the other fins, rounded.
Caudal elongate, deep, and the margin rounded.
Pectoral broad, the upper rays the longest, and situated directly behind the gill-opening.
Color in alcohol dark brown, especially on the back, the belly hardly paler.
The back, upper portion of the head, caudal peduncle, and caudal fin, marked with numerous small round blackish spots.
The dorsal, anal and pectorals plain brown without markings.
The flanks are marked with about six oblique blackish bands, the first few broadest, and none of them extending on the middle of the belly.
Vent blackish.
Bases of the pectoral and anal with several dark spots.
Length 4^^ inches.
One example.
4.
Tetraodon immaculatus (Schneider).
1801.
[Tetrodon] Immaculatus Schneider, Syst.
Ichth., p. 507.
[After Lacepede.]
' 1S66.
Tetrodon immaculatus Gi'inther, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 132; Aden; Zanzibar.
1870.
[Tetrodon immaculatus] var.
immacidata Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., VIII, pp.
291, 292; Port Natal (Coll.
M. Ayres); Zanzibar (Coll.
Lieut.-Col. Playfair); Mauritius (Coll.
M. Cuming); Penang (Coll.
Dr. Cantor); East-Indian archipelago; New Caledonia (Coll.
M. Cuming); Australia.
(Colls.
M. Gould, Earl of Derby.)
Head 2f ; depth (not inflated) about 2f ; D. 8; A.
9; P. 17; width of head 1^ in its length; snout 2\ in the head; eye 6^; interorbital space 2; length of dorsal 2\; anal 2\] caudal l\; pectoral 2| ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3.
Body rather short, compressed, moderately broad, and the belly capable of great inflation, the greatest width about the bases of the pectorals.
Caudal peduncle rather short, deep and compressed.
Head moderately large, rather broad, rounded and little depressed above.
Side of the head not very convex.
Snout long, blunt, and with the upper profile straight.
Eye small, a little nearer the gillopening than the tip of the snout.
Mouth small, terminal, oblique , with the mandible protruding, and its width about equal to one and one-half eye-diameters.
Lips broad, fleshy, and almost entirely cov1 Based on " Le tetrodon sans-tache" Lac^pede, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., I, 1798, pp.
475, 486, plate 24, fig.
1.
[From Commerson; no locality.]
ering the teeth.
Teeth large, very powerful, the cutting edges of the mandibulars more concave than those above, and the suture with a pronounced groove but no ridge on either side.
Bifid tentacles large, very conspicuous, and placed about the last third of the space between the upper lip and the front margin of the eye.
Interorbital space broad and slightly convex.
Gill-opening equal to the internasal space or not quite as wide as the base of the pectoral.
Peritoneum silvery.
Lips, eyehds, margin of gill-opening, bases of the fins and the caudal peduncle naked, the other portions covered with rather large sharp spines, those on the belly longest and more or less slightly clavate.
Origin of the dorsal fin is much nearer the posterior margin of the eye than the tip of the caudal fin, and the fifth ray is the highest.
The anal is similar to the dorsal, entirely posterior, and with the sixth ray the longest.
Caudal long, rather broad, and with the margin slightly rounded.
Pectoral broad, the upper rays the longest, and the fin rather short.
All the fins have rounded edges.
Color in alcohol dark brown, the belly paler, and everywhere more or less uniform.
Dorsal, anal and pectoral uniform pale brown.
Caudal dark brown, with the margin all around broadly bordered with blackish brown.
Each prick or spine is pale or whitish.
The lips and bases of the fins are very dark brown.
Length 3f inches.
One example.
SCORP^NID^.
5.
Pterois lunulata Schlegel.
Plate VI.
1843.
Pterois lunulata Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., p. 45, Plate 19; la bale de Nagasaki, principalement a rembouchure des fleuves.
1866.
Pterois lunulata Playfair, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 48; Aden; Zanzibar.
[No descr.]
Head 2y%; depth 3i; D. XIII, I, 10; A.
Ill, 7; P. 14; V. I, 5; scales 64 in a lateral series to the base of the caudal, and about 4 more on the basal portion of the latter ; about 1 1 scales between the second dorsal spine and the lateral line; 16 scales between the lateral line and the origin of the anal, and about 25?
between the former and the middle of the belly; width of head 1^ in its length; depth of head 1^; snout 2| in head; eye 4^; maxillary 2; mandible If; interorbital space 4|; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; first dorsal spine If; second 3 in body; hird 2f; fourth 2^; fifth 21; sixth 2i; thirteenth 2f in the head; third dorsal ray, H; third anal spine 1|; third anal ray 1; caudal 2f in body; ventral spine 1§ in head; ventral fin 2^ in body.
Body elongate, compressed, the greatest depth about the anterior dorsal spines.
Head compressed, rather deep and somewhat bluntly pointed.
Its greatest v^ndth is a little greater than the greatest width of the body, which is at the bases of the pectorals.
Snout rather long, blunt, and with a marked prominence above.
Preorbital space broad.
Eye moderate, high, and a little anterior in the head.
Mouth large, oblique, and the maxillary reaching back till below the front rim of the pupil.
Distal expanded extremity of the maxillary broad, equal to three-quarters the eye-diameter, and inclined below ventrally.
Jaws and vomer with bands of very fine teeth.
Tongue thick posteriorly, and in a rather long, thin, compressed point, which is free in front.
Lips fleshy, the lower on the side of each ramus of the mandible very thick.
The lower jaw large, protruding when the mouth is closed.
and with a small protuberance at the symphysis.
The interorbital space is rather narrow, deeply concave, and with a rather shallow median groove.
Nostrils well separated, circular, the rims a little elevated, and the anterior with a small thin flap.
No nasal spines.
Preocular spines very blunt, and more or less concealed in the skin.
Postocular spine very broad, obttise.
Coronal and tympanic spines developed as low obscure ridges, and with a similar median spine between the former.
Parietal spines large and broad.
Nuchal spines small.
Margin of the preorbital with two blunt, obtuse spines.
Cheek with a bony ridge, furnished with a blunt spine at the preopercle.
Margin of the preopercle with three obtuse spines.
Mastoid and suprascapula each with a long spine.
Opercle with a broad spine posteriorly.
Gill-opening large, continued forward below the posterior nostril.
Rakers short, thick.
Gill-filaments much longer, though also rather short.
Pseudobranchiffi.
Isthmus broad, with a broad groove, and the branchiostegal membranes connected for a short distance.
Scales small, cycloid, and present on the greater part of the head, except the jaws, snout and maxillary.
A pair of short narrow cutaneous flaps at the tip of the snout, and the two large obtuse spines along the preorbital margin each concealed in a rather long flap.
Three short dermal flaps along the lower margin of the preoperculum.
No flaps at bases of the paired fins.
Scales rather large on the side and posterior portion of the trunk.
Bases of the caudal, pectoral and ventral with small scales, the other fins without scales.
Lateral line concurrent with the back, slightly inclined, and running out on the basal scales of the caudal.
The tubes elongate.
Peritoneum pale or whitish.
Spines of the dorsal very high, graduated to the fourth, after which, to the eleventh, they are more or less equal.
The last two are much shorter than the first.
The membranes are only present on the basal portion of the fin, though higher below the ]:)osterior longer spines.
Soft dorsal nearly twice as high as its base.
Anal inserted nearly midway between the origin of the ventral and the Imse of the caudal.
The anal spines are graduated to the third, which is the longest, and the membrane joining it with the first anal ray is complete.
Soft anal long, inserted about under the origin of the soft dorsal, and twice as high as the length of its base.
Caudal \'ery long, rounded and the middle rays the longest.
Pectoral very long, the upper rays reaching beyond the caudal, and all united by a membrane, which is rather broad basally though not extending beyond half the length of the longest rays.
Ventral inserted a trifle in advance of the pectoral, the spine slender, and the fin reaching a little beyond the origin of the soft anal.
Color in alcohol pale brown, the head and trunk marked with a series of deep brown alternating narrow and Ij'oad vertical stripes, or l)ands.
On the front part of the head these radiate from the eye, and those on the trunk extend \\\) on the l)asal portions of the vertical fins, though soon fading away on the soft dorsal and anal.
Stripes on the interorbital space narrow and longitudinal.
Region above the l-)ase of the pectoral more or less blackish.
Spines of the dorsal marked with broad blackish cross-bands.
Soft dorsal, anal and caudal, with the rays marked with about six series of narrow dark brown or l^lackish cross-bars.
Pectoral more or less ])lackisli, the ra3's with broad whitish cross-bands, and reflected' on the membranes at the base of the fin as intlistinct pale blotches.
The basal portion of the fin is pale brown, like the general body color, marked with deep l)rown bands running into the black membranes.
Inside of the base of the pectoral blackish, with se^'eral paler bands, and a few white spots.
A'entral blackish, with several series of small white spots.
Length 4y\ inches.
One example.
I follow Colonel Playfair in recording this species from Zanzibar.
Schlegel's figure is ver}' crude and might easily be mistaken for some other fish.
Bleekei-'s figure is scarcely an imjirovement.
CEPHALAOANTHID^.
6.
Cephalacanthus spinarella (Linnaeus).
1758.
[Gasterosteus] Spinarella Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., Ed.
X, p. 297; India.
^ 1866.
Dactylopterus orientalis Playfair, Fishes of Zanzibar, p. 49; Aden; Zanzibar.
[No descr.]
1893.
Dactylopteru!^ orientalis Pfeffer, Jahrb.
Hamburg.
'NViss.
Anst., X. p. 12; Sansibar.
[No descr.]
Head 3f ; depth 5; D. I-I-6-S; A.
6; P. 31 : A'.
5; scales, in a lateral series to the base of the caudal 50, and about 28 in a transverse series between the spinous dorsal and the middle of the belly ; width of head lyV in its length; depth of head H; snout 2 J; eye 2f ; maxillary 2f ; width of mouth 2|-; mandible 2f ; interorbital space lyo ; least depth of caudal peduncle 4+; first dorsal spine 1^; second 3^; third If; first dorsal ray 1^; base of soft dorsal H; base of anal 2f ; ventral l^.
Body elongate, depressed, the greatest depth about the base of the ventral.
Caudal peduncle broad, depressed, about as wide as deep at its least depth.
Head large, broad, and the greatest width a little less than the greatest width of the body, which is at the bases of the pectorals.
The upper profile forms obtusely above the front of the eye.
Snout broad, blunt, rounded and projecting beyond the jaws.
Eye large, nearer the tip of the snout than the gill-opening in profile, and with the marginal bones large and strong.
Mouth inferior, much broader than long, and the maxillary hardly reaching below the middle of the orbit.
Lips rather thick.
Teeth fine, minute, and in bands in the jaws, none on the vomer or pa'atines.
Tongue broad, short, angular, and not free from the floor of the mouth.
Upper jaw produced beyond the mandible.
Nostrils close together, with slightly raised rims, and the space between the anterior pair, which are closer together than the others, about two-fifths the interorbital space.
Interorbital space very broad and deeply concave.
Surface of the head almost entirely rugose, and the opercle and preopercle striate.
Suborbital spine short, reaching below, the upper margin of the preopercle, and forming a deeply dented margin running up to the lower posterior rim of the orbit.
Preopercle ending in a \'ery long dagger-like spine reaching opposite the fourth dorsal spine.
Xuchal crests strongly ridged, with several denticulations, and reaching posteriorly below the tip of the preopercular spine.
Gill-opening rather small, lateral, its length al)out equal to the eye.
Peritoneum pale.
Scales strongly keeled, bony, and arranged in longitudinal series.
-Based on [Ptingititis] pvsillus Linnaeus, Mvs.
Adolph.
Fred., 1754, p. 74, Plate 32, fig.
5 (tliree figures).
[Xo locality.]
On the anterior portion of the liocly the series are close together, broadening out behind so that some above run up toward the middle of the back, ami some of tlie lower run toward the lower median line.
On the chest the scales are small and only slightly keeled.
On each lower side of the caudal pedunc'e are a series of three enlarged compressed scales.
The keels on the scales, in this region, are also large.
Base of the caudal above and below with elongate compressed scales.
Bases of the other fins without any scales.
First dorsal spine situated at the angle of the nuchal shield, a little before the gill-opening.
Second dorsal spine short, nearer the third than the first.
Third dorsal spine a little nearer the posterior margin of the orbit than the origin of the soft dorsal, and with the remaining spines all graduated to the last wliich arc ver}short.
Origin of the soft dorsal a little nearer the base of the first dorsal spine than the base of the caudal, and the anterior rays the highest.
Anal inserted a little nearer the l^ase of the caudal than the base of the ventrals, and the second ray about equal to the length of the caudal peduncle.
Caudal small, lunate.
Pectoral long, reaching beyond the base of the caudal.
A entrals close together, elongate, and reaching the anus, which is a little distance in advance of the origin of the anal.
Color in alcohol brown, a little darker above.
Back with four broad obscure saddle-like bands.
A dark brown band connecting the eyes and continued down below on each cheek.
First dorsal spine with a blackish membrane.
Other dorsal fins dusky with obscin-e dark brown cross-bars.
Anal and ventral pale brown.
Caudal barred with brown.
Pectoral blackish with obscure gray and dusky blotches.
Length 4 inches.
One example.
BLENNIID^.'
7.
Aspidontus tractus sp.
nov.
Plate VII Head 3f ; depth 5; D. XI.
28; A.
26: P. 14; V. 3: width of head 2yV in its length; depth of head ly%; snout 3i; eye 4^; width of mouth 4|-; ■' Graviceps, gen. nov.
The genus Aspidontus as here understood includes but two species, the one described above and .4. iwniatus Quoy and Gaimard.
The species included by Jordan and Snyder in their review of the Blennioid fishes of Japan (Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXV, 1902, pp.
453 to 458) appear to form a separate genus.
They are all easilj' distinguished bjthe short blunt snovit, which is not produced or pig-like.
Type Petroscirtes elegans Stcindachner.
{Grai'iceps, heavy-head.)
interorbital space 4; depth of caudal peduncle 2h; width of base of pectoral 4; length of pectoral 2\; ventral 2^.
Body moderately elongate, strongly compressed, and the greatest depth about the middle of the belly.
The greatest width less than that of the head, and at the bases of the pectorals.
Caudal peduncle not defined, as the posterior rays of the dorsal and anal are more or less connected with the caudal, deep and strongly compressed.
Head large, attenuate, conic, and its greatest width at the opercles.
The upper and lower profiles nearly evenly straight, so that the tip of the snout is midway in the height of the head.
Snout long, conic, produced, and not Very broad.
Eye rather small, a httle superior, and well anterior.
:\Iouth inferior, some Httle distance from the tip of the snout, very broad, transverse, and the gape not reaching the front margin of the orbit.
Lips thin, that on the mandible rather broad.
Teeth compressed, uniserial in the jaws, and attenuately rounded at their extremities.
A large curved canine on each side of the mandible, and not separated from the others.
No teeth on the vomer or palatines.
Nostrils well separated, the anterior about the last fourth of the space between the tip of the snout and the posterior, which is over the front rim of the orbit.
The internasal space is about two-thirds the diameter of the eye.
Interorbital space rather broad, convex like the rest of the upper surface of the head.
The suborbital bones are somewhat rugose and covered with a thin membrane.
The sides of the head posterior and superior to the eyes are similar.
The lower surface of the head is broad, convex and rounded like the top or upper surface.
Gill-opening small, in front of the upper base of the pectoral and about equal to the eye.
Peritoneum whitish.
Anus near the origin of the anal fin.
Body naked, the skin smooth.
Head with a number of small mucous pores.
Paired fins without flaps or sheaths.
Origin of the dorsal well forward, only just a trifle behind the eye.
The spines are very flexible, hardly to be distinguished from the rays, which are not branched.
The bases of the former are a little further apart than those of the rays.
The first few spines are graduated, after which the whole dorsal fin assumes a more or less uniform height to the last rays, which decrease and are united with the caudal peduncle by a low membrane reaching to the base of the caudal.
The anal is similar to the dorsals, except that the margin of the fin is incised between the ravs.
The anal spine is scarcely to be distinguished from the rays.
The origin of the anal is much nearer the base of the caudal than the tip of the snout.
Caudal broad, somewhat truncate, and the lower rays the longest.
Pectoral broad, also rather truncate.
Ventrals close together, inserted about opposite the last third of the space between the posterior margin of the eye and the margin of the gillopening.
Color in alcohol more or less dark slaty-blue, giving place to dark brown.
The posterior half of the trunk shading into dusk3% A black band, at first about half or a little less than the e\^e-diameter, running from the snout through the eye and back along the upper part of the side out on the caudal till near the tips of the lower median rays, and then curving down or bent back a trifle.
From above the origin of the anal this band becomes much broader, occupying most of the upper portion till about as broad as the interorbital space.
Belly and lower surface rather pale.
A short dark brown oblique streak before the base of the pectoral.
Margins of the dorsal, anal and caudal whitish, that of the latter very broad, especially at the corners.
On the former two fins there is a narrow submarginal ' blackish band, fading below toward the basal portions of these fins into the bluish body color.
Pectoral and ventral pale Ijrown.
Length 3^ inches.
Type No.
24,207, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Zanzibar.
Coll.
Sir Charles Eliot.
The only example I have seen is described above.
It is closely related to Aspidontus taeniatus Quoy and Gaimard.
It differs, however, in the short dark streak in front of the base of the pectoral.
Their figure is very rough, and shows the outer portions of the upper and lower caudal rays bluish.
* Dr. Giinther's figiu'e of Petroscirtes tceniatus.''
if at all accurate, is c ertainly distinct.
{Tractus, a streak.)
ANTENNARIIDJE.
8.
Antennarius argus spnov.
Plate Vni.
Head (measured \o axil of pectoral) 2f; depth 1; D. I-I-I-12; A.
7; P. 10; V. 5; width of head (measured to axil of pectoral) l^ in its length; snout 4^ in head; eye about S; maxillary 2; mandible 2; width of mouth If; interorbital space 3; bait 2\; second spine 3^; ■* Voyage de V Astrolabe, Zool., 1S34, p. 719, Plate 19, fig.
4; I'ile de Guam, devaiit la ville d'Agagna.
•=• (Fische der Siidsee) Journ.
Mus.
Godef., XI, 1876, p. 195.
Plate 114, fig.
A; Freundschafts-, Paumotuund Fidschi-Inseln.
third spine If ; fourth dorsal ray 1| ; base of anal 2^ ; fourth anal ray 2| ; caudal 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; base of pectoral 2+; base of ventral 3^.
Body deep, compressed, and the greatest depth about midway between the base of the first dorsal spine and the first dorsal ray.
The back is elevated and the belly round and swollen.
Caudal peduncle compressed, rather small.
Head very large, deep, with a steep declivous profile.
The lower sides of the head about the greatest depth of the body, also its greatest width.
Snout very short, steep, rough and broad.
Eye small, very high and anterior.
Mouth very large, nearly vertical, and the lower posterior margin of the maxillary hardly reaching below the front margin of the eye.
Mandible very broad and with a slight knob at the symphysis.
Lips rather thick.
Teeth minute, and in rather broad bands in the jaws.
Vomer and palatines with bands of minute teeth.
Tongue large, thick, occupying the whole of the floor of the mouth, and with a patch of large^'short coarse teeth medianly.
Nostrils small, obscure, close together, and near the edge of the snout.
Interorbital space broad, and rough.
Top of the head below the third dorsal spine swollen.
Gill-opening a small pore at the lower base of the pectoral, and nearty in the middle of the length of the entire fish.
Peritoneum silveiy.
Anus near the front of the' anal fin and with a small genital papilla posterior.
Body very finely roughened everywhere, except on the lower surfaces of the pectorals and ventrals.
Tubercles on the head, and in the lateral line anteriorly, not very conspicuous.
Bait with a large tuft' of filam.ents at its extremity.
Second dorsal spine closely following, and united behind with a broad roughened membrane with the interorbital space.
Third dorsal spine clavate beginning at the tip of the|;depressed second spine or a little behind the eye, and also united to the occiput with a broad rough membrane.
Soft dorsal rather high and long, and its margin straight.
Anal small, very posterior, and extending back rather far on the caudal peduncle.
Caudal large, broad and the upper rays the longest.
All of the vertical fins rounded.
Pectoral large, and the tips of the rays projecting a little beyond the membranes.
Wntral similar to pectoral.
Color in alcohol pale or dusky gray-brown, more or less uniform, and marked everywhere with small round black ocelli, many scarcely larger than the pupil of the eye.
The lower surfaces of the pectoral and ventral are blackish without distinct spots.
On the back and head many of the ocelH become very small.
The outer portions of the paired fins are also darker than the other parts.
Along the upper portion of the soft dorsal are four large blackish ocelli arranged at equal distances, and posteriorly on the base of the fin a much larger one.
Anal similar but the basal ocellus at the fifth and sixth rays.
There are also several enlarged ocelli on the sides of the body and caudal fin.
Length 3/g inches.
Type No.
24,208, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Zanzibar.
Coll.
Sir Charles EHot.
One example, described above.
It resembles Antennarius phymatodes Bleeker somewhat in color, but is apparently more closely related to Antennarius polyophthalmus Bleeker, from which it is distinguished by the very numerous ocelli.
Antennarius nigromaculatus Play fair is said to have a large black patch extending over the whole of the abdominal region, {Argus, hundred-eyed, on account of the very numerous ocelli.)
9.
Antennarius tuberosus Cuvier.
1817.
Chironectes tuberosus Cuvier, Mem.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
Paris, III, p. 432; risle de France.
(Coll.
M.
Mathieu.)
Head (measured to axil of pectoral) 2^; depth 2; D. I-I-I-ll; A.
7 ; P. 9 ; V. 5 ; width of head (measured at opercle) about li in its length; snout 4 in head; eye about 6; maxillary If; width of mouth If; interorbital space 3^; bait 4f ; second spine 4.V; third spine 2f ; eighth dorsal ray 2; base of anal 1^; fourth anal ray 2; length of caudal 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; base of pectoral 2f ; base of ventral Body elongate, compressed, and the greatest depth about the origin of the soft dorsal.
The back is elevated, especially between the third dorsal spine and the origin of the soft dorsal, sloping down gradually behind to the caudal peduncle.
The abdomen is very large, rounded, or swollen.
Caudal peduncle small, and but little free.
Head moderate, very deep, and with a steep round anterior profile.
Side of the head more or less swollen in appearance, but with the greatest width of the body at the base of the pectoral in front.
Snout very short, blunt, broad, and a little inclined.
Eye small, very high and anterior.
Mouth large, inclined forward so that the chin is produced.
Maxillary concealed below.
Mandible very broad and with a small symphyseal knob.
Lips thick.
Teeth small and in rather broad bands in the jaws.
Vomer and palatines with bands of fine teeth.
Tongue large, free around the edges so that it is very thick, occupying the whole of the floor of the mouth, and with a patch of rather large teeth medianly.
Nostrils small, close together and a little nearer the edge of the mouth than the front margin of the eye.
Interorbital space moderate, elevated and rough.
Top of the head below the third dorsal spine not very much swollen.
Gill-opening a small pore just below the base of the pectoral, and nearer the edge of the chin in front than the base of the caudal.
Peritoneum grayish-brown .
Anus conspicuous, in front of the origin of the anal.
Body very finely roughened everywhere, except on the extremities and lower surface of the pectoral and ventral rays.
Tubercles on the head and anterior portion of the lateral line obscure and inconspicuous.
Bait short, with a small tuft of filaments at its extremity .
Second dorsal spine closely following, about opposite the front rim of the orbit, free, and without membrane behind.
Third dorsal spine large, thick, not very high, and joined to the occiput by a narrow membrane.
Soft dorsal long, beginning a little behind the base of the pectoral above, and with the upper margin only slightly incised between the rays.
Anal posterior, beginning a little nearer the tip of the caudal than the origin of the ventral, rounded, and the edge more or less similar to that of the soft dorsal.
Caudal rounded, somewhat expanded, and the median rays the longest.
Pectoral low, and the rays free for a good portion of their extremities.
Ventrals situated below the third dorsal spine and the ends of the rays also free for a good distance.
Color in alcohol dark gray-brown, the margins of all the fins rather broadly whitish.
Side and head more or less obscurely marbled with darker brown.
The outer submarginal portions of all the fins blackish, variegated with paler or brownish.
Base of the caudal pale brown.
Length 1| inches.
One example.
The name bigibbus'' cannot ilate from the original edition of Lacepede, as it was not used as a binomial.
The next name apparently available is that of Cuvier.
Fauxal Works, 1865.
R. L. Playfair and A. C. L. G. GrxTHER.
The Fishes of Zanzibar.
London.
Pp.
153, Plates 21.
(Acantliopterygii by Lieut-Col. Playfair and Pharyngognathi, etc., by Dr.
Giinther.)
^ Lophie double-bosse Lacepede, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., I, 1798, pp.
302, 325.
[No locality.
From Commerson MSS.
as " Aiitcnnarius bigibbus, nigro et griseo variegatus."]
1S68.
A. C. L. G. GrxTHER.
Additions to the Ichthyological Fauna of Zanzibar.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
London, (4) I, pp.
457-459. with fig.
W. Peters.
Cliiloglanis Deckenii, und einige andere Susswasser-fische aus Ostafrika.
Monats.
Ak.
Wiss.
Berlin, pp.
598-602, ^yith plate.
1869.
R. L. Playfair.
Further Contributions to the Ichthyology of Zanzibar.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, pp.
239, 240.
Addendum", p. 241, by Dr. Giinther.
1873.
A. C. L. G. GiiNTHER.
Further Additions to the Ichthyological Faima of Zanzibar.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
London, (4) XII, p. 182.
1889... Georg Pfeffer.
Ubersicht der von Herrn Dr. Franz Stuhhnann in Agypten, auf Sansibar und dem gegeniiber liegenden Festlande gesammelten Reptilien, Amphibien, Fische, Mollusken und Krebse.
.Jah-b.
Hnmbarg.
iciss.
Anst., VI, Fische, pp.
13-23.
1893. .
Ostafrikanische Fische gesamnielt von Herrn Dr. F. Stuhlmann im Jahre 1888 und 1889.
Jahrb.
Hamburg.
iviss.
Anst., X, pp.
1-49, Plates I-III.
1899.
R. Jatzow and H. Lenz.
Fische von Ost-Afrika, Madagaskar und Aldabra.
Abhand.
Senck.
Naturj.
Gesel, XXI.
pp.
497-531, Plates .34-.3<i.
A REVISION OF THE ORTHOPTEROTJS GENUS HOMCEOGAMIA.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The present study is based on an examination of forty-nine specimens of the genus HomcBogamia, from the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the United States National Museum.
The receipt of an interesting series of specimens from the southwestern United States prompted the author to study the genus in detail.
The results are here set forth.
Probably the most striking thing observed on examination of the literature and the material at hand is the scarcity of females of the genus.
This sex is positively known in but three of the six species, and the rather extensive series studied contained but one adult female specimen.
In the case of known sexes or larvae unrepresented in the series examined, the original description has been translated and placed in the proper position.
Several forms, in two cases based originally on the larvae, which have not been recognized since the original description, are included at the end of the paper.
In these cases the descriptions have not been translated.
HOMOEOGAMIA Burmeister.
1838.
Homoeogamia Burmeister, Handb.
der Entom., Bd.
II, Abth.
II, pt.l, p. 490.
1864.
Homeogamia Saussure, Mem.
J'Hist.
Nat.
Mexique, IV, p. 226.
1865.
Homoeogamia Brunner, Nouv.
S5'st.
Blatt., p. 360.
1868.
Polyphaga Walker (not of BruUe), Catal.
Blatt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 13.
1869.
Homoeogamia Saussure, Mel.
Orthopt., II, p. 102.
1870.
Homoeogamia Saussure, Miss.
Scientif.
Mexique, Orth., p. 108.
1871.
Homoeogamia Wall'cer, Catal.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus., V, Suppl.
Catal.
Blatt., p. 3.
1871.
Polyphaga Walker (not of Brulle), Catal.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit, Mus., V, Suppl.
Catal.
Blatt., p. 3.
1890.
Homoeogam.ia Bolivar, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France (6), X, p. 137.
1893.
Homoeogamia Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc.
2, p. 294.
1894.
Hom<£ogamia Saussure and Zehntner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 10.5.
1900.
Homoeogamia Scudder, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Nat.
Sci., VIII, p. 11.
1900.
Homoeogamia Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXVII, p. 85.
1901.
Homoeogamia Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXVII, p. 220.
1902.
Homoeogamia Scudder and Cockerell, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Sci., IX, p. 19.
1903.
Homaogamia Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Pliila., LIV (1902), p. 717.
12 Type.
— Homoeogamia mexicana Burmeister.
Generic Characters.
— Sexes dissimilar, but both with tegmina developed.
Tarsi without arolia.
Males with the pronotuni semicircular, sub-fusiform or pentagonous in outline; tegmina elongate, at least two and a half times as long as the transverse diameter of the pronotum.
Females with the pronotum broad, sub-fusiform in outline, the anterior margin more arcuate than the posterior ;' tegmina comparatively short and not more than one and a half times as long as the broad scoop-like pronotum; wings minute.
IVIedian and posterior tibiae with six or seven apical spurs.
Supra-anal plate of the male produced and distinctly bilobate, or produced and broadly emarginate.
Supra-anal plate of the female produced, broadly rounded, with a narrow median emargination.
History.
— The genus Homoeogamia was originally founded in 1838 by Burmeister as a subgenus of Hctcrogamia {=^ PolypJiaga Brulle).
It was based entirely on H. mexicana, and the distinguishing characters were clistinctl}^ geographical — Heterogamia s. s. belonging to the Old World, and Hotnocogamia to the New.
In 1864, Saussure placed it as a subgenus of Polyphaga, and located it in the "Polyphagiens," a division of the " Nuditarses," Latindia being associated with it.
The same author described a species, H. hrasiliana, from Brazil, basing it on a nymph.
Brunner, in 1865, in his historic Systhne considered the division that of a full genus, and placed it with Heterogamia in a new family — the Heterogamida?.
In 1868, in the Catalogue of the BlattaricB in the British JMuseum, Walker erected the family Polyphagidse, in which Homoeogamia was placed.
Saussure, in the Melanges, published in 1869, placed Homoeogamia with Polyphaga in the "Polyphagiens," which he considered a division of the "Blattaires Mutiques a Tarses nus."
He here also described H. sinensis, a species from northern China, which, as later shown, he has since removed from the genus.The same writer, in the Mission Scientifigue , published in 1870, considers the " Poly phagi ens " as a division of the ^'Nuditarses," and Homoeogamia was here regarded as a subgenus of Polyphaga.
In 1871 Walker described a species, Polyphaga aqualis, which is probably a representative of the genus Homoeogamia, but it has not been ^ This character also applies to the males of several species of the genus.
In the work above mentioned Saussure recognized the pecuhar position of this species as he says: "Tlie presence of an arohum on the tarsi in tliis species places it near Polyphaga {Heterogamia) ; nevertheless the appearance, the woolly nature of the body, tlie widtli of the marginal field of the elytra, and the curvature of the discoidal nervures adds much to the analogy with Homwogamia.
This species thus establishes a type between the two genera."
recognized since the original description.
Bolivar, in 1890, described the larva of a species of the genus from Venezuela, but refrained from naming it, although he considered it new.
Saussure, in 1893, published his Revision de la Trihu des H eterogamiens , in which he placed Homoeogamia with Heterogamia in a separate tribe, along with two new genera, Dyscologamia and Anisogamia, which contained species from the Oriental region.
South Africa and Central Asia.
In this paper he discusses at great length the relationship of Homoeogamia and Heterogamia, the result of which is that Homoeogamia is restricted to the forms occurring in the New World.
After commenting on Brunner's method of separating the genera, he presents the case in a manner which should be quoted entire to be understood: "Depuis que les especes connues se sont multipliees, les limites entre les deux genres sont devenues moins evidentes.
On a trouve en effet dans le regions chaudes de Fancien continent des especes chez lesquelles les femelles sont ailees et qui sembleraient par consequent devoir rentrer dans le genre Homoeogamia bien que les males possedent des pelottes entre les griffes.
D'autre part, les males des Heterogamia n'ont pas tons les tarses termines par une pelotte.
Les caracteres sur lesquels les deux genres semblaient reposer se trouvent ainsi en apparence infirmes.
On pourrait, il est vrai, chercher a resoudre la difficulte en faisant passer dans le genre Homoeogamia les especes de I'ancien continent dont le femelles sont ailees, mais cet arrangement ne s'accorderait ni avec les caracteres des males, ni avec les caracteres fournis par les pieces anales des femelles.
Cette reunion ne serait done pas naturelle.
Les deux genres primitifs (correspondant a la distribution geographique des especes) sont au contraire nettement separes et, si les especes ailees ( 9 ) de I'ancien continent ressemblent aux Homoeogamia, cela tient seulement a ce qu'elles out parcouru comme ces dernieres la phase d'imago qui leur a donne des organes du vol: elles n'ont pas pour cela perdu leur caractere d' Heterogamia.
Je n'hesite done pas a considerer toutes les especes de I'ancien continent comme etant des Heterogamia, et a restriendre le genre Homoeogamia a celles du nouveau monde.
Les deux group doivent seulement etre caracterises d'un maniere un peu differente qu'il n'a ete fait au debut.
"Je distingue comme suit les deux genres ou plutot les deux types propres a chacun des continents : "1° Homoeogamia.
— c??
tou jours depourvus d'arolium entre les griffes.
— 9 9 .
Le dernier segment ventral comprime en forme de bee a son extremite ; ce bee limite a sa base par de profonds silions et comme fendu, mais en realite seiilement partage par un pli rentrant, en general appreciable seulement sous la forme d'un sillon longitudinal.
(Le segment rappelant par son apparence le dernier segment ventral des Periplanetiens.)
"2° Heterogamia (sensu latiore).
— cJ^d^.
Tarses en general munis d'un petit aroliimi.
— 9 ?
.
Le dernier segment ventral non comprime en bee, mais plat, avec le milieu renfle en bosse arrondie non partag^e.
Le corps aile comme chez les Homoeogamia, ou aptere de forme ovale-orbiculaire ou ovoide, cilie sur ses bords, au moins le long du pronotum."
In the same year (1893) that the above appeared, but evidently having priority of publication, Brunner described a species (Horn, capucina) from Burma, which possesses a female with well-developed tegmina.
The genus is placed by the same author in the Corydidce.
to which the whole " Heterogamides '' is added.
In 18P4, Saussure and Zehntner, in the Biologia CentraliAmerica, placed Homaogajnia as a member of the subfamily Corydinoe.
The inference drawn from some statements in this work is that it was prepared before the Revision .
.
.
des Heterogamiens, but did not appear until later.
The two Old World species mentioned above have both been eliminated from Homoeogamia, sineiisis being removed to Polyphaga by Dohra {Stettin Ent.
Zeit., XLIX, p. 132, 1888) and capucina placed in Dyscologamia by Saussure (Revue Suisse ZooL, I, fasc.
2, p. 301.
1893).
Remarks.
— After a study of the available specimens, and an examination of the numerous statements made in the works mentioned in the preceding historical sketch, the conclusion is reached that Homoeogamia, as defined by Saussure, in 1893, is a tenable genus, though closely allied to Polyphaga Brulle (Heterogamia Burm.
et auct.).
The two South American species, which are known only from the nymphs, have not been identified since the original descriptions, and as no material in this genus from that region is available, nothing critical has been done with them.
The original descriptions of these species have been placed at the end of the article with the diagnosis of Polyphaga cequalis Walker, which probably was based on some member of this genus.
Key to the subgenera (based on the males).
A.
— Supra-anal plate of male bilobate; median and posterior tibia with six apical spurs; vertex rounded.
B.
— Marginal field of tegmina broad ; tarsi comparatively robust, metatarsi of median limbs about half as long as the tibiae, Homoeogamia s. s. BB.
— Marginal field of tegmina narrow; tarsi very slender and elongate; metatarsi of median limbs about as long as the tibiae, Arenivaga n. subg.
AA.
— Supra-anal plate of male very broadly emarginate apieally; median and posterior tibiae ^v-ith seven apical spines ; vertex with a distinct angular transverse ridge, Eremoblatta n. subg.
Key to the species {based on the males).
A.
— Supra-anal plate of male bilobate.
B.
— Marginal field of tegirdna broad.
c. — Elytra tessellate, never tuberculate; veins in the distal portion of the discoidal field longitudinal, mexicana Burmeister.
cc.^ — Elytra sparsely tuberculate at base; veins in the distal portion of the discoidal field arcuate, azteca Saussure.
BB.
— Marginal field of tegmina narrow.
c. — Interspace between the eyes narrower than that between the ocelli.
d. — Size rather large (length including tegmina 23-29 mm.
), holliana Saussure.
dd.
— Size small (length including tegmina 19-21.5 mm.
), erratica n. sp.
CO. — Interspace between the eyes not narrower than that between the ocelli, apacha Saussure.
A A.
— Supra-anal plate of male very broadly emarginate, subdiaphana Scudder.
Subgenus HOMCEOGAMIA sen. strict.
Suhgeneric Characters.
— o' .
Size rather large; form gracefid.
Tegmina elongate with the lateral margins sub-paraUel; marginal field broad, equal to one-third of the sub-basal width of the tegmina ; veins in the distal portion of the discoidal field arcuate transverse.
Tarsi comparatively robust; metatarsi of median hmbs about half as long as the tibia?.
9 .
Size large; form obese.
Tegmina broad, but shghtly exceeding the abdomen in length, the lateral margins parallel in the distal half.
Metatarsi of median limbs not half as long as the tibiae.
Homceogamia mexicana Burmeister.
1838.
Heterogamia (Homoeogamia) mexicana Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., Bd.
II, Abth.
II, pt.
1, p. 490.
LMexico.]
1864.
Polyphaga {Homceogamia) Mexicana Saussure, Mem.
I'Hist.
Nat.
Mexique, IV, p. 226.
[Warm lands of the Eastern Cordillera; Orizaba, Mexico.]
'■ The distinguishing characters of the male of H. azteca are taken from Saussure, as that sex has never been examined bv the author.
1865.
H[om(eogamia] mexicana Brunner, Nouv.
Syst.
Blatt., p. 360.
[Oaxaca, Mexico.]
; 1868.
Polyphaga Mexicana Walker, Catal.
Blatt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 15.
[Mexico.]
1870.
Homoeogamia Mexicana Saussure, Miss.
Scient.
Mexique, Orthopt.. p. 108.
[Eastern Cordillera, Mexico.]
1871.
Homwogamia Mexicana Walker, Catal.
Orth.
Saltat.
Brit.
Mus., V. Suppl.
Blatt., p. 3.
[Mexico.]
1879.
"Polyphaga {H omoeogamia) mexicana Girard, Traits Ent., |II, p.
62."
1893.
[Homoeogamia] mexicana Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc.
2, p. 296.
No localities cited.
1894.
Homoeogamia mexicana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer..
Orthopt., I, p. 106.
[Ventanas in Durango, Sinaloa, and Cordova in Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
1900.
Homoeogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXVII, p. 85.
[Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
1901.
Homoeogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXVII, p. 220.
[Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
1903.
Homoeogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXIX, p. 5 (Part).
[Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico.]
Description.
— d"'.
Body flattened, moderately elongate.
Head completely liidden under the pronotum; interspace between the eyes about one-fourth that between the ocelli; antennae equal to the body in length, setaceous.
Pronotum elongate pentagonous, arched transversely, and supplied with a distinct median carina ; the lateral sections shorter than the other dimensions, and converging posteriorly, the posterior border which is linear, being the longest; surface scabrous, the borders, beset with short hairs.
Tegmina large, exceeding the abdomen by one-half of their length ; surface coriaceous, sub-scabrous at base, and becoming membranaceous along the posterior (internal) margin, anterior margin hirsute; basal field broad, extending almost the whole length of the tegmina, nervures obscured in the basal portion ; discoidal field with the nervures sub-arcuate, ramose; anal field witli the principal nervures arcuate, all involved in an irregularly connected mass by numerous cross branches.
Wings about as long as the pronotum, apex rounded.
Supra-anal plate with the apex bilobate, the dividing emargination being narrow and comparatively shallow; subgenital plate transverse, centrally emarginate; cerci short, sparsely hirsute.
Tibiae with three rows of spines on their upper surfaces; apical spurs six in number.
Metatarsi of anterior limbs more than half as long, of median limbs half as long, and of posterior limbs less than half as long as their respective tibiae.
General color reddish-brown, strongest on the pronotum and anal field of the tegmina.
Head brownish-black, ocelH orange, and clypeus and labrum dull luteous ; antennae brownish, the extreme base blackish.
Under surface and hmbs reddish-brown, the apical section of the abdomen suffused with blackish.
Pronotum frequently marked laterally with very dull reddish.
Tegmina sprinkled with translucent spots, which give a marbled appearance to the same; distal, sutural and apical regions with this mottling very indistinct, the spots of greatest size in the distal portion, and very minute proximally; marginal field uniformly colored.
Length of bod}^ 20-21 mm.
; length of tegmina 26.5-30.5 mm.
: width of tegmina 10-10.5 mm.
; length of pronotmn 6.5-7 mm.
; width of pronotvim 9.5-11 mm.
9.
"No resemblance to the male.
The insect in repose has a regularly elliptical form, with the liack normally inflated, recalling the form of Corydia or Phoraspis.
Prothorax A'ery broad, arched, corneous, un wrinkled, wath the two borders regularly arcuate, though the anterior is stronger so than the posterior ; the margins on the sides form a sharp dentiform angle, Avhich is placed a little posterior; the disk with almost the same ridges as in thecJ', but not the impression.
Elytra of the length of the abdomen, hard and corneous, resembhng two vah'es, terminating in rounded points; the surface densely shagreened ; the nervures as apparent as the principal veins in the corneous mass of the elytra, and very much branched; no anal ridge or only slightly indicated toward the internal (posterior) border of the elytra in the form of a sub-transparent line.
Scutellum very slightly uncovered.
Prothorax and elytra densely haired, especially on the borders.
Abdomen broad ; the penultimate segment very arcuate, the last with its posterior half strongly compressed, carinate, rostrate and divided, resembling two closed valves; supra-anal plate rounded and divided.
Anal filaments slim and short.
"Body brown or blackish; tarsi testaceous.
Prothorax and elytra brown, the latter marbled with much paler speckles.
"Length of body 25 mm., length of pronotum 8 mm., width of the pronotum 12.5 mm."
Larva: "Thee?
larvae are a chocolate-brown color and are densely haired.
On the disk of the pronotum the hairs form longitudinal lines which correspond to the furrows.
The supra-anal plate is transverse, a little arcuate, bordered, divided by an emargination; the subgenital plate with the posterior border arcuate.
The form is the same as in Heterogainia."
Distribution.
— This species has ])ceu recorded from the States of Sinaloa, Durango, Vera Cruz and Oaxaca, Mex.
In Vera Cruz it has been taken only in the Eastern Cordilleran region.
Remarks.
— The series of five males of this species examined by tlio author exhibits no apparent difference, except a slight variation in the shape of the pronotum, a condition found in most of the species of the genus.
Specimens Examined.
— Five males; Jalapa, \'era Cruz, Mex.
(Barrett).
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
Homoeogamia azteca Saiissure.
1893.
[Homceogamia] azteca Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc.
2, p. 296.
[Mexico.f 1894.
Homceogamia azteca Saussure and Zehntner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orthopt., I, p. 106.
[Omilteme, Guerrero, Mexico.]
1903.
Homoeogamia mexicana Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXIX, p. 5 (Part).
[Uruapan, Michoacan, Mexico.]
c^.
"Antennae rufescent.
Pronotum fuscous or rufous, a httle heavier granulate than in //.
mexicana.
Eyes sub-contiguous.
Elytra castaneous at the base, sparsely tuberculate, from here densely sprinkled with small white maculations, tips griseous; veins of the discoiclal area arcuate.
Wings hyaline, humeral and discoidal veins partly fuscous; costal i-egion beyond the middle infuscate, margin narrowly yellow; apical margin and part of the posterior very narrowly infuscate.
Feet rufo-castaneous, coxse and femora more or less testaceous.
Posterior metatarsus of the c?
equal in length to the other joints combined, longer than a fourth of the tibia.
Abdomen castaneous, pallid at base, margins with fulvous fimbrise, which are shining rufous.
Cerci rufescent.
Supra-anal plate testaceous, apex with a minute triangular incision, bilobate; sub-genital plate with the margin rufescent, broadly subsinuate, styles lateral.
"Length 21-23; elytra 32-34.5; pronotum 6.5-7.5, width of pronotum 10.75-12 milhm."
9.
Size large; form elliptical; surface sub-scabrous.
Head with the interspace between the eyes less than that between the ocelli; antennse short, slightly more than half the length of the body.
Pronotum elliptico-fusiform ; anterior margin strongly arcuate, posterior gently ai'cuate; lateral angles slightly produced posteriorly.
Tegmina with the lateral margins parallel in the joroximal half; apex subacuminate, narrowly rounded; veins and nervures indistinct and slightly marked.
Scutellum considerably exposed.
Abdomen broad, flat.
Supra-anal plate produced, rotundate, narrowly emarginate centrally.
Sub-genital plate compressed, rostrate, divided; penultimate segment with the apical margin triangular!}'
arcuate.
Metatarsi in no case exceeding half the length of their respective tarsi.
General color dull blackish-brown, obscurely blotched with yellowish-brown.
These blotches are larger toward the apex of the tegmina.
Under surface dull red-brown ; coxie, limbs, abdomen, terminal plates, labruin and basal joints of the antennae sprinkled with dull golden hairs.
Head except labrum and lower half of clypeus black; ocelli reddish-orange; eyes brown.
Length of body 22.7 mm.
; length of tegmina 21 mm.
; greatest width of tegmina 9.5 mm.
; length of pronotum 8.5 mm.
; width of pronotvmi 14 mm.
Distribution.
— ^This species has been previously recorded only from Omilteme, GuerrerO; Mex.
The female from Uruapan.
Michoacan, which is here described, extends the range somewhat to the north.
Specimens Examined.
— One female; Uruapan, Michoacan, Mex.
(Rhoads.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
Subgenus ARENIVAGA n. subg.
Subgeneric Characters.
— c'\ Size medium to rather small.
Tegmina with the lateral margins gently arcuate; marginal field narrow, equal to one-fourth of the sub-basal ^^ddth of the tegmina; veins in the distal portion of the discoidal field obhquely transverse, straight.
Tarsi very slender and elongate; metatarsi of median limbs about as long as the tibiee.
9 .
Adult unknown.
Type.
— Homceogamia bolliana Saussure.
Homoeogamia bolliana Saussure.
1893.
[Homoeogamia] Bolliana Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc.
2, p. 296.
[Texas.]
1894.
Homoeogamia bolliana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orthop., I, p. 107.
[New Mexico; Texas.]
1900.
[Homoeogamia] bolliana Scudder, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Nat.
Sci., VIII, p. 11.
[Texas; New Mexico.]
1902.
HomoEogamia bolliana Rehn, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, XXVII, p. 331.
[Ptound Mountain, Texas.]
1902.
Homoeogamia bolliana Scudder and Cockerell, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Sci., IX, p. 19.
[New Mexico; Las Cruces, N. M.] d^.
Size medium; form elongate-elliptical; surface finely punctulate on the pronotum, tegmina sub-coriaceous.
Head with the interspace between the eyes not more than one-half of that between the ocelli; ocelli large, their upper surface in contact with the eyes; antennae about equaling the body in length, basal joint comparatively large.
Pronotum fusiform or elongate pentagonous, the two extremes connected by numerous intermediates ; the anterior margin is generally more arcuate than the posterior, though in the elongate pentagonous type they are sub-equal; median section with two narrow sub-parallel, centrally ])laced impressed Hues, which are supplemented posteriorly by two laterally i^laced, curved impressed areas; surface of the pronotum and anterior margin hirsute.
Tegmina elongate, apex rounded; anterior margin with short hairs, the surface of the whole tegmen with short, closely adpressed hairs; basal field without very distinct nerviires; nervures of the discoidal field straight, oblique, parallel, seldom bifurcate; anal sulcus strongly arcuate; anal field nervures distinct and connected by numerous short cross nervures.
Wings apically rounded, anterior margin straight in the proximal two-thirds.
Abdomen broad, flattened, segments slightly projecting laterally.
Bupra-anal plate produced, sub-truncate ; median portion with a shallow, triangular emargination.
Sub-genital plate with, the posterior margin sub-tnnicate ; median portion -^-ith a very shallow, broad emargination.
Cerci depressed, tapering, exceeding the anal plates in length.
I\Ietatarsi of anterior limbs slightly exceeding the tibia?
in length ; of median limbs equal to the tibia?
; of posterior limbs exceeding half the length of the til^ia?.
General color reddish-brown, strongest on the central portion of the pronotum.
Anterior and lateral margins of the pronotum pale j^ellowish, translucent.
Tegmina sprinkled with small irregular blotches of umber; anterior margin reddish-brown, which is also the color of the hairs on the pronotum and tegmina.
Head ]:)lack; basal joints of antennce and ocelli 5'ellowish-orange.
Under surface of abdomen, limbs, labrum and lower half of clypeus pale yellowish-broAvn ; apical section of abdomen suffused with dull brownish.
Length of body 14.5-19.5 mm.
; length of tegmina 19-24.2 mm.
; greatest width of tegmina 7.5-10 mm.
; length of pronotum 5-6 mm.r width of pronotum 7.5-9.2 mm.
9 .
Fully adult condition unknown.
Larva.
— Form ovate, the apex anterior; surface punctulate, the margins of the pronotum, thoracic and abdominal segments, as well as the surface of the body supplied with short stiff hairs.
General color reddish-brown to brownish-black, the anterior and lateral margins of the pronotum touched with yellowish or whitish.
Lower surface reddish-brown, strongest on the apex of the abdomen.
Abdomen sometimes bearing a longitudinal row rif ]>lack blotches on each side.
Distribution.— This species is apparently rather generally distributed over Texas.
Specimens in the material examined are from Shovel Mount, Burnet county; Eound ]>Iountain, Blanco county; Austin, Travis county; San Marcos, Hays county; Devils River and Pecos High Bridge, ^^alverde county.
The U. S. National Museum collection also contains specimens from Victoria, Mctoria county; Dallas, Dallas county, and Carrizo Springs, Dimmit county.
The only definite record from New Mexico is from Las Cruces, Donna Ana county.
The species is seen to extend from east central Texas to the Rio Grande ^' alle}in New Mexico, and from the Red River region to south central Texas.
Remarks.
— ^This species exhibits a great A-ariation in size, and also in the shape of the pronotum.
Specimens Examined.
— Nineteen males, eight larvae: 14.
Shovel Moimt, Burnet county, Tex.
September 2-October 29, 1901.
(Sehaupp.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
4.
Round Mountain, Blanco countj^.
Tex.
(Sehaupp.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
2.
Austin, Travis county, Tex.
Feb. 19, 1903.
(Wheeler.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
1.
San Marcos, Hays county, Tex.
(Pilsbry.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
2.
Devils River, Valverde county, Tex.
(Pilsbr}'.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
2.
Pecos High Bridge, Valverde county, Tex.
(Pilsbry.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
2.
Texas.
Riley Coll.
(U. S. N. M.).
Homoeogamia erratica n. sp.
Type.
— ; Prescott, Yavapai county, Ariz. June 10, 1902.
(Oslar.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
Differing from bolHana in the smaller size, the greater interspace between the eyes (which is much more than half that between the ocelli, instead of half or less than half), the obscure character of the nervures of the distal portion of the marginal field, and more forked structure of the nervures of the distal portion of the discoidal field.
Description.
— d^.
Size rather small; form acute elliptical; surface sub-coriaceous.
Head with the interspace between the eyes slightly less than that between the ocelli ; ocelli very large, and in contact with the eyes along their superior margins ; antennae almost equal to the bod}' in length ; basal joint rather elongate.
Pronotum sub-triangular, the basal line being represented by the posterior margin; posterior margin very broadly arcuate, lateral angles rounded; anterior margin and surface covered with hairs, those on the margin being rather long, and those on the surface very short.
Tegmina elongate, the apex well rounded; proximal portion of the anterior (lateral) margins sparsely haired ; basal field ■\nth the nervures but shghtly marked distally, not visible in the proximal portion; nervures of the discoidal field parallel^ oblique, straight, frequently bifurcate ; anal sulcus rather deep, strongly arcuate.
Wing reaching the tips of the closed tegmina, apex broadly rounded.
Supra-anal plate produced, -with a median triangular emargination.
Sub-genital plate produced, rounded, with a shallow, rotundate, apical emargination.
Cerci short, depressed, not exceeding the sub-genital plate in length.
General color brownish-gray, the pronotum with a few median marks of dull brown.
Tegmina obscurely dusted with irregular blotches of brownish.
Head black, except the labrum, clypeus, mandibles and inter-antennal area which are yellowish-white ; ocelli very pale amber ; antennae pale brownish, except the basal joint which is yellowishwhite.
Limbs and under surface very pale sandy brown; spines on the former rich reddish-brown.
Length of iDody 14.5 mm.
; length of tegmina 18 mm.
; greatest width of tegmina 7 mm.
; length of pronotum 4.5 mm.
; width of pronotum 6.2 mm.
9 .
Unknown.
Distribution.
— This form is known only from Prescott and Tucson, Ariz.
Remarks.
— This species presents some considerable variation in size, and also in the intensity of the coloration, The specimens from Prescott are much grayer than the Tucson specimen, which is a pale straw-brown in color.
Specimens Examined.
— Three males : 2.
Prescott, Yavapai county, Ariz. June 10, 1902.
(Oslar.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
1.
Tucson, Pima county, Ariz. June 22.
(U. S. N. M.) Homoeogamia apacha Saussure.
1S93.
[Homceogamia] apacha Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, I, fasc.
2, p. 296.
[Chihuahua, Mexico.]
1894.
Homoeogamia apacha Saussure and Zehntner, Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Oi-thopt., I, p. 107.
[State of Chihuahua, Mexico.]
Description .—(J .
Size small; form elongate ovate: surface subcoriaceous.
Head wdth the interspace between the eyes equal to that betw^een the ocelli; antennse not quite equal to the body in length.
Pronotum triangular, the posterior margin longer than the other sides ; surface covered with short appressed hair, the anterior margin with them much the longer.
Tegmina elongate with the apex well rounded; basal field comparatively broad, the nervures distinctly visible in all but the extreme basal portion; nervures of the discoidal area rather irregular, frequently forked.
Wings with the apex sub-acuminate.
Supra-anal plate produced, rounded, deeply divided apically.
Subgenital plate produced, apically with a broad, shallow, triangular emargination.
Cerci shghtly longer than the sub-genital plate, appressed acuminate.
Anterior metatarsi longer than the tibia; median metatarsi not more than two-thirds the length of the tibia; posterior metatarsi sUghtly more than half the length of the tibia.
General color wood-brown, marked on the pronotum with a darker shade of same color; hair on the pronotum red-brown.
Tegmina obscurely mottled with general tint, the lighter spots being sub-hyaline, except in the anal and basal section of the discoidal field.
Color of the imder surface and limbs pale wood-brown, darkest in the anal region and on the spines of the limbs.
Length of body 11.7-15.2 mm.
; length of tegmina 14-18; greatest width of tegmina 6-7; length of pronotum 3.7-4.5; width of pronotum 5.2-6.5.
9.
"(Nymph?)
Rufo-ferrugineous, apterous, head and feet testaceous.
Supra-anal plate transverse, margin Uttle arcuate, slightly incised.
Cerci tuberculiform.
Last ventral segment flat, rounded, both sides sinuate, produced in the centre.
Length 13; pronotum 4.6; width of pronotum 7 millim."
Distribution.
— The series examined includes specimens from Phoenix, Tempe and Fort Grant, Ariz.
These with the type locality, Chihuahua, cover the known distribution of the species.
Remarks.
— The most striking variation in the specimens examined appears to be that of size.
The coloration appears, from the specimens at hand, to be quite constant.
Specimens Examined.
— Five males : 2.
Fort Grant, Graham county, Ariz. July 17 and 22.
(Hubbard.)
(U. S. N. M.) 2.
Phoenix, Maricopa county, Ariz. April 29, 1902.
(Oslar.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
1.
Tempe, Maricopa county, Ariz. April 26, 1902.
(Oslar.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
Subgenus EKEMOBLATTA n. subg.
Subgeneric Characters.
— c?.
Size small.
Vertex of the head with a distinct angular transverse ridge.
Tegmina with the nervures in the anal field very distinct.
Median and posterior tibiae with seven apical spines.
Supra-anal plate very broadly emarginate apically.
9 .
Unknown.
Type.
— Homceogamia subdiaphana Scudder.
Homoeogamia subdiaphana Scudder.
1902.
Homoeogamia subdiaphana Scudder, Proc.
Davenport Acad.
Sci., IX, p. 19.
[Las Cruces, N. M.] 1902.
Hornoeogamia subdiaphana Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences, Phila., LIV (1902), p. 717.
[Alamogordo and HighroUs, N. M.] c?.
Size small; form slender and elongate.
Head with the interspace between the eyes slightly greater than that between the oceUi; vertex with a distinct transverse ridge which divides the apical from the inferior surface of the head ; antennae slender, filiform, shorter than the body.
Pronotum sub-triangular; surface velvetinous and sometimes haired; the posterior margin broadly arcuate, the anterior semicircular; both margins closely haired, those of the anterior margin much longer than on the posterior; lateral angles obtuse, inconspicuous.
Tegmina with the surface glabrous, the distal half membranaceous; apex sub-acuminate, rounded; anterior (lateral) margin basally supplied with long hairs ; marginal field with the nervures absent in the proximal portion; discoidal field with the nervures obliquely parallel, almost longitudinal; anal field with the nervures distinctly visible and strongly arcuate.
Tarsi with seven apical spurs.
Sub-genital plate with the apex broadly emarginate, the lateral shoulders produced into distinct dentiform processes, the intervening diastema being of moderate depth and evenly rounded.
Cerci flattened, very short.
General color wood-brown.
Head blackish; ocelli aml^er-yellow.
Pronotum with the anterior and lateral margins pale yellowish, the hair, which is present on the margins and sometimes on the disk, being of the same tint; disk blackish with two large lateral and one small medio-posterior dot of red, which are more or less conspicuous.
Tegmina with the general tint strongest on the nervures of the proximal half of the tegmina.
Under surface yellowish-brown, suffused with darker brown in the anal region.
Length of body 9.5 mm.
; length of tegmina 14 mm.
; greatest width of tegmipa 5 mm.
; length of pronotum .3-3.5 mm.
; width of pronotum 4.2-4.5 mm.
9 .
Unknown.^ Larva: Form ovate, the abdomen very broad.
Pronotum similar to that of the male in general outline.
Supra-anal plate transverse, the posterior margin rounded and centrally emarginate.
General color wood-brown, edged on the proand mesonotum wdth ochraceous.
Pro-, mesoand metanotum centrally ornamented with blotches of ochraceous, the penultimate abdominal segment bearing lateral blotches of the same tint.
Distribution.
— This species has been recorded only from the Rio Grande Valley at Las Cruces, N. M., and the San Augustine Plain * The specimen described by the author (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila., LIV (1902), p. 717) as a female is in a larval condition and the sex is uncertain.
and foothills of the Sacramento [Mountains at Alamogordo and Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. Remarks.
— This species is so peculiar and distinct from the other forms of the genus that it is easily recognized.
The series examined is quite uniform in size, and the color differences are very slight.
Speci?nens Examined.
— Eleven; ten males, one nymph: 10.
Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. April 11-June 6, 1902.
(Viereck and Rehn.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
1.
Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. June 13, 1902.
(Viereck.)
(Acad.
Nat.
Sciences Phila.)
Unidentified Forms.
Polyphaga (Homeogamia) brasiliana Saussure.
1864.
Pobjplmga (Homeogamia) Brasiliana Saussure, Mem.
I'Hist.
Nat Mexique, IV, p. 228.
1868.
Pohjphaga Brasiliana Walker, Catal.
Blatt.
Brit.
Mus., p. 15.
"Nymphe d"'.
Corps un peu voute, suborbiculairc.
finement striolc ou ponctue.
Le premier arcticle des antennes mediocrement long, assez gros; le deuxieme petit; le troisieme deux fois plus long.
Prothorax large et court; son bord anterieur a courbure obtuse, subangulaire an milieu; les angles lateraux tres-aigus; le bord posterieur un peu arque, subsinne avant les angles.
Abdomen aplati, large, a bords faiblement dentes; segm.ents dorsaux 8, 9 tres-distincts, decouverts; le bord posterieur du 7me presque en demi-cerclc; en dessous le penultieme segment petit, tres-arque; ses deux extremites presque cachees sous le precedent.
Plaque sous-genitale ayant son bord posterieur en forme d'angle obtus; ce bord fortement depasse par la lame sousanale fentlue, laquelle est a son tour debordee par la plaque suranale ; celle-ci transversale, a bord posterieur presque droit, et un peu fendu; la face superieure cannelee au milieu.
Styles anaux tres-distincts.
Pattes greles, allongees; epines tibiales longues et greles.
"Couleur d'un marron ferrugineux, presque testacee en dessous; vertex, front et labre superieur, offrant une bande brune; antennes ferrugineuses, plus foncees en dessus; bords du thorax cilies de polls ferrugineux, et varies de testace-jaunatre; sur la ligne mediane chaque segment orne de deux joints jaunes; ces points se continuant sur I'abdomen en devenant plus vagues; les segments abdominaux ornes en outre de chaque cote d'une marque jaune et d'un point brun; te thorax en dessous jaune-testace.
''Longueur du corps, 0,017; — largeur du prothorax, 0,0115; — id.
de I'ahdomen, 0,0145.
''Hahite: Le Bresil."
Polyphaga ae^ualis Walker.
1871.
Polyphaga aqualis Walker, Catal.
Spec.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus., V, Suppl.
Catal.
Blatt., p. 3.
"Male.
Piceous.
Head black; clypeus, palpi and antennse red.
Prothorax scabrous, transversely elliptical; anterior half of the border red; some longitudinal impressed lines in the disk.
Pectus, legs, sides of the abdomen and hind borders of the segments tawny; femora setose beneath.
Fore wings extending for full half the length beyond the abdomen, with numerous minute pale testaceous dots, occasionally with a large pale testaceous patch in the disk near the base.
Hind wings pellucid ; veins paler.
Length of the body 8-9 lines ; expansion of the fore wings 28-30 lines.
The prothorax is regularly elliptical, and thus differs from that of P. Mexicana, in which the hind part is broader than the fore part, and is truncated on each side.
a-b.
South Mexico."
This is apparently a member of the genus Homceogamia, but cannot be positively identified.
It is possibly a synonym of mexicana, as Walker's knowledge of the latter species must have been limited, as his statement regarding the form of the pronotum in that species is partially erroneous.
Homoeogamia n. sp.
Bolivar.
1890.
Homceogamia n. sp.
Bolivar, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France (6), X, p. 137.
"Un seul exemplaire a I'etat de larve.
"Possedant dans ma collection des individus a divers-degres de developement, je pens affirmer seulement que cette espece ne se rapport pas a H. mexicana Burm., avec qui je I'ai comparee, ni a H. hrasiliana Sauss., bien que cette derniere espece ait ete decrite sur un male a I'etat de nymphe.
Le pronotum est convert de granulations miliaires, ses sillons dorsaux etant remplaces par de simple depressions, ce qui donne a I'insecte un facies un pen different des autres Homceogamia.
— Caracas. "
Je crois cette espece nouvelle, mais ne possedant pas des individus bien developpes, je ne la decris pas."
MOLLUSCA OF WESTERN ARKANSAS AND ADJACENT STATES, WITH A REVISION OF PARAVITREA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Early in 1901 Mr. J. H. Ferriss explored for mollusks a portion of southwestern Missouri, western Arkansas, and some adjacent localities in the Indian Territory, the region covered lying mainly north of that exploited in 1900.^ The rugged topography of a portion of this region, and its elevation above the plains on all sides, have resulted in the evolution of many species and subspecies special to the tract.
The general conditions of life are varied from those prevailing over the comparatively level States along the Mississippi, and with this change has come readjustment on the part of the snails.
The mode of this readjustment I hope to study further when more material is available.
From the data presented in this paper and my article of 1900 on the same fauna, it appears that — (1) Species having a wide geographic range become much more variable in this district.
(2) Variation is usually not indiscriminate, hut in the large majority of individuals follows one or two definite lines of deviation from the "normal" or widespread form.
(3) Various specific stocks show various degrees of deviation or differentiation from their widespread "normal" forms.
The first of these propositions is exemplified by a large nmnber of species, and would be noticed by any one possessing the material for comparison.
The second point is one of some importance.
It is illustrated likewise by many species, of which several may be taken as examples.
Gastrodonta demissa is a snail ranging from "Western Pennsylvania to Georgia, west to Arkansas and Eastern Texas.
"1 See Pilsbry in these Proceedings for 1900, pp.
449-459, and especially Ferriss.
Nautilus, XIV, pp.
25-31, July, 1900, where the country is described, and manj^ species not in other lists are noted.
Information bearing on the molluscan fauna of adjacent districts may be found in the following papers: F. A. Sampson, "Shells of Pettis county, Mo.," in Bull.
I, Sedalia Natural History Society (1885) : "Preliminary List of the Mollusca of Arkansas," Ann.
Rep. Geol.
Survey of Arkansas for 1891, Vol.
II, pp.
179-199 (1893); C. T. Simpson, "Notes on Some Indian Territory Land and Fresh-water Shells," in Proc.
U. S. National Museum, 1888, pp.
449-454.
■^ Pilsbry, Catal.
of the Land Shells of America, p. 28 (1898).
13 In this area it is not known to vary much east of the Mississippi.
Several years ago I received a number of specimens from Arkansas Avhich differed from all previously known in having the whorls so closely coiled as to make the axis quite imperforate, and at the same time the whole shell was flatter.
This form I called Gastrodonta hrittsi.
Subsequently, specimens from another Arkansan locality came to my hands, in which there was a lamella within the aperture, a structure unknown in the species elsewhere.
These became G. demissa var.
lamellata.
The abundant series collected by Mr. Ferriss since these supposed subspecies were discriminated, shows that in their area they coexist with snails indistinguishable from Eastern G. demissa, and that the variation of that species in this area is not indeterminate, but toward the one or the other of these two diverse modes of modification.
Polygyra monodon is in the same case.
In western Arkansas, three weakly differentiated forms occur, which have been named alici(B, friersoni and imperforata.
All are closely related to, and doubtless descendants of, the widespread P. m. jraterna; and all three occur around some localities.^ But in examining several hundred individuals I did not find the variation indiscriminate, even in a small percentage of the snails, but always toward one or the other of the three differentiation-lines signahzed by the three subspecific names, without individuals intermediate between them, or otherwise modified, as tlie species is in some other regions.
Without further multiplying instances, I may say that while in certain districts, usually of rugged and varied topography, widespread species of snails become locally variable, there has come to my notice but little of the multifarious variation called for by the theory of natural selection.
What strikes one is the uniformity with which modifications, varying in amount, yet follow definite paths.
This impression left by studies of the snails of the United States, I would never have gained from what I have seen of certain Antillean genera, such as Cerion or the Jamaican Urocoptis.
In these groups there seems to be great and multifarious variation, without elimination of intermediate forms, thus making specific lines merely arbitrary.
List of Species.
Localities marked with an asterisk (*) in this list are given on Mr. Ferriss' authority.
^ See my former paper on Arkansan snails, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1900, pp.
-154-456, where the data on distribution are given.
POMATIOPSIN^.
Pomatiopsis lapidaiia (Say).
Seligman, Barry county, Mo.
HELICINID^.
Helicina orbiculata tropica (Jan.).
Seligman,* Mo.
; Petit Jean,* 'Yell county, Ark.
HELICID^.
Polygyra leporina (Gld.).
Poteau* and Antlers,* I. T. Polygyra dorfeuilliana (Lea).
Springfield, Green county, southwestern Missouri.
Typical P. dorfeuilliana sampsoni Weth., 7.8 to 8.2 mm.
diam.
Seligman, Barry county, southwestern Missouri.
Typical P. d. sampsoni, diam.
8-9 mm.
Chester, Crawford county, Ark.
Varying from 6| to 8 mm.
diam., some specimens shomng transition toward var.
sampsoni in width of the umbiUcus.
Rich Mountain, Polk county.
Ark.
Specimens typical, 7-7f mm.
diam.
Hot Springs, Garland county.
Ark.
Like the preceding.
Carrion Crow Mountain, in Gum-dog township, Pope county.
Ark.
This is about ten miles north of Petit Jean Mountains.
Rather heavy specimens, 6.2 to 7.6 mm.
diam., with the lower lip-tooth somewhat prominent in a basal view.
Tushkahoma, I. T. The specimens vary from 6.2 to 8 mm.
diam., are rather solid and somewhat more striate beneath than in typical dorfeuilliana.
The parietal tooth is rather small.
The umbilicus varies from that of typical dorfeuilliana to as wide as sampsoni, so that there is here a perfect transition between the two.
A large series was collected.
Antlers, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Three specimens measuring 6, 6.2 and 7.5 mm.
diam.
The lip is much thickened, immersing the teeth, and the parietal tooth is unusually large and square.
In the largest shell the umbilicus is that of sampsoni, and the aperture less obstructed, diam.
8 mm.
Standley, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Diam.
7 to 7.5 mm., the specimens varying from dorfeuilliana to sampsoni in umbilicus.
Aperture normal.
Poteau, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Rather solid, distinctly striate beneath, varving from 7.5 to 8.7 mm.
diam.. and from the small umbilicus of dorfeuilliana to the widely open condition of sanipsoni, most of the specimens intermediate in size and umbilicus.
A large series.
In some portions of southern Missouri and adjacent counties of Arkansas, the specimens are larger than typical dorfeuilliana, and widely open beneath, showing over one whorl.
They are usualh* qviite glossy, and rather weakly striate on the base.
This form, var.
sampsoni Weth., seems to be quite distinct in this area.
In the eastern part of Indian Territory, the shells are rather hea^aer, more distinctly striate on the base, and wherever a large series was collected they vary from the dorfeuilliana form, in which but one whorl or a little less is exposed beneath, to the sampsoni form of base; most specimens being intermediate in these characters.
This area therefore is one in which differentiation has not taken place — a transition region.
Cf.
these Proceedings for 1900, p. 449.
Polygyra jacksoni (Bland).
Springfield, Green county, and Chester,* Crawford county.
Mo.
; Poteau* and Rich Mountain,* Ark.
Polygyra cragini (Call).
DeKalb,* Cleburne county.
Ark.
; Antlers,* I. T. Polygyra neglecta Pils.
T. fallax Say var.
minor, Wetherby, Some Notes on American Land Shells.
No.
II, p. 11, in Joum.
Cincinnati Soc.
N. H., IV, December, 1881, p. 383.
Polygyra neglecta Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 40 (August, 1899).
The above reference to Mr. Wetherby's work was overlooked by me, or not recognized as pertaining to this species, when I defined P. neglecta in 1899.
He says: "Years ago I received from Springfield.
Mo., a small variety of this species [Triodopsis fallax], much lighter colored, with a thicker and heavier shell than the type, with the peristome reflected backward and rounded, and having a very distinct facies.
I have recently received the same variety from Mr. Sampson, who collected it at Eureka Springs."
The form would hardly be recognized from this note without specimens from the localities mentioned ; and as several forms of the genus have already been called "var.
minor," it will probably not be advisable to revert to that name.
Mr. Ferriss procured specimens at Seligman, Barry county, and Springfield, Green county, both in southwestern Missouri.
Polygyra infleota (Say).
Petit Jean, Yell county, Ark.
; diam.
9-11 mm.
Seligman, Mo.. normal specimens with strong teeth, diam.
10 mm., and a very distinct race in which the teeth are much reduced, though still the Hp-teeth are decidedly stronger than in P. edentata.
Specimens measure — Alt.
5.3, diam.
11.5 mm.
; whorls 4f.
Alt.
5, diam.
9.5 mm.
; whorls 4^.
The last whorl is somewhat more costulate behind the lip than usual in P. inflecta.
This form may be called var.
media.
P. inflecta was taken also at Rich Mountain,* Hot Springs* and Carrion Crow Mountain,* Ark.
; Tushkahoma* and Standley,* I. T. Polygyra edentata (Sampson).
Chester, Crawford county, western Arkansas.
Two specimens sent measure 12 and 14 mm.
diam., and have 5 and 5^ whorls.
Eighteen were taken at this locality.
Polygyra albolabris alleni iWetherby).
Mesodon albolabris Say, and var.
minor A. G. Wetherby, Some Notes on American Land Shells, No.
II, in Joum.
Cincinnati Soc.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 11, December, 1881.
Eureka Springs, Carroll county.
Ark.
M. albolabris Say, F. A. Sampson, Bull.
No.
1, Sedalia Nat.
Hist.
Soc, p. 19, 1885.
Sedalia, Mo.
Mesodon albolabris Say.
var.
alleni (\Vetherby) and var.
minor Sampson, MoUusca of Arkansas, in Ann.
Rep. Geol.
Surv.
of Ark., II, pp.
189, 190, 1893.
Carroll, Benton, Sebastian, Crawford, Garland, Washington, White, Johnson, Nevada, and Independence counties.
Ark.
Polygyra albolabris alleni Weth., Pilsbry, in these Proceedings for 1900, p. 451.
Iowa and Arkansas.
All of the above references pertain, I believe, to a single widespread race of P. albolabris, varying in size and color almost as much as the Eastern form of the species, but in a broad view distinguishable from the latter by one, several or all of the following characters : The shell is thinner, more depressed and more glossy; the spiral lines and other minute sculpture are weaker; the lip is narrower, rounded rather than if at, with a weaker less angular rib within; the low basal tooth is frequently more distinctly defined.
Distribution, west of the Mississippi from southern Minnesota to Arkansas, and eastward in the South to Jackson county, in northern Alabama.
In the North, P. albolabris replaces alleni east of the Mississippi river, in Illinois.
I have seen typical P. albolabris from west of the Mississippi only from Winfield, Henry county, in southeastern Iowa, where it coexists with var.
alleni.
Owing to the frequent cutting of "oxbows" by the Mississippi, and the consequent transfer of islands from one to the other side of the stream, even that great river is no bar to the distribution of snails inhabiting lowland forests; and somewhere a,long the immediate vicinity of the Mississippi the areas of albolabris and alleni probably overlap, with perhaps a belt of undifferentiated intermediate forms.
198 [Feb., Specimens of P. a. allcni from Albert Lea, Minn., the most northern point from which I have seen the variety, those from Winfield, Henry eounty, in southeastern and Des IMoines in central Iowa, are yellow or whitish, small, averaging 23 mm.
in diameter; 70 per cent, of those seen measuring from 22 to 24 mm., the extreme of size being 21 and 26 mm., these extremes represented by very few specimens, I have below plotted the curve obtained from measuring the diameters of a lot of 50 specimens from Des IMoines, la., collected by Mr. T. Van Hyning.
The number of individuals is prol^ably sufficient to afford a perfectly normal curve for the particular place these were obtained; but the specimens from Albert Lea, Minn., and Winfield, la., though few in number, are so similar that I would not expect much difference in their curves.
* 40% 35X 30^ / / / \ 20Z »' ' 'x 1 1 1 / \ \ \ C •.^ --:-/ / \ U a e> 21m-m 22.
23.
24.
26.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
Fig.
1, a-b, diameter variation curve of .50 shells of Polygyra albolabris aJleni from Des Moines, la.
; c-d, 18 shells from Seligman, southwestern Missouri.
This contrasts strongly with the conditions in Avestern Arkansas. ''
This curve is remarkably symmetrical, the average diameter of the lot.
obtained by dividing the sum of their diameters by the number of specimens, practically coinciding with the diameter of the greatest number of individuals, represented by the mode or highest point of the curve.
Variation in size is about equal toward both minimum and maximum.
Of course it is understood that exact measurements of the shells would efTace the angles of the "curve," especially'near the mode.
I neglected fractions smaller than ^mm., as in organisms of this size greater exactness would be mere pedantry.
A widely different condition is seen in the other curve, in which the average diameter is less than that of the greatest number of specimens.
It must be constantly borne in mind that tlie curve of the Seligman lot is probably widely different from what a series of 50 or 100 specimens from that locality w^ould produce; but still the absence of individuals between 22 and 25 mm.
diameter, together with the fact that other localities in western Arkansas show a large and a small form, leads me to suspect that a sufficient series would form a bimodal curve, the minor mode remote from the other, and probably near the 21 mm.
lien.
southwestern Misso\iri and the Indian Territory, where in many locaUties there is a very much wider variation in absolute size.
Thu.s, in a series of 18 shells from Sehgman, Barry covmtj'', southwestern Missouri, the variation is from 20^ to 30^ mm.
; the smallest being smaller than the extreme of the Des ^loines lot of 50 shells, while about 70 per cent, of the shells are larger than the largest from Des Moines.
Of course no normal cur\-c can lie plotted from so small a series as 18 specimens; but in view of similar variation in other smaller lots, the general features of the curve are indicative of the wide range of individual variation.
Tlie specimens in the present collection from Missouri and Arkansas are as follows.
There are not enough from an}^ one place to make their variations of much significance, but I give the data for what they are worth : De Soto, Jefferson county.
Mo.
A single thin, small specimen of typical alleni, diam.
23 mm.
Seligman, Barry count}', southwestern Missouri.
See notes above.
Many of the specimens are large, 28 to 30 j mm.
diam.
Chester, Crawford county, Ark.
Three specimens measuring 30, 26 and 23 mm.
diam.
The smaller ones thin, like maritima, the larger one strong.
Hardy, Sharp comity, northeastern Arkansas.
Four specimens, measuring 21, 22, 24 and 26 mm.
diam.
Hot Springs, Garland count}', Ark.
A single specimen, diam.
29^ mm., less depressed than usual.
Rich ^Mountain, Polk county.
Ark.
Rather heav}', large specimens, diam.
30 mm or more.
Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county.
Ark.
Diam.
24 to 27-j mm.
; rather light, with the usual narrow peristome.
Tushkahoma, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Four large specimens only, measuring 28^, 28^, 29A.
3H nun.
diam.
The spire is a little higher than usual, and there are nearly ok whorls.
The peristome is typical of alleni.
Standley, Choctaw Nation.
A single shell similar to the above, diam.
31 mm.
In Kansas P. alleni occurs in Shawnee count}', and at Quenemo, Osage county.
The specimens resemble those from Iowa.
None have been seen from southwestern Arkansas or Texas.
East of the Mississippi, specimens of typical alleni, resembling those of Missouri, are in the collection of the Academy from near Decherd, Franklin count}', in niiddlc Tennessee, near the Alabama boundary.
received from Mr. A. G. Wetherby, and from Chattanooga, collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads.
At the latter place it coexists with a heavy form of albolahris, though the two do not occur together.
Polygyra albolabris fuscolabris nov.
Finally, near Woodville, Jackson county, in northern Alabama, a form was collected several years ago, by J\Ir.
H. E. Sargent, which seems to be the culmination of the alleni type, with some special features which make it advisable to treat it as a local variety, under the new name P. albolahris fuscolabris.
The shell is very large, alt.
19, diam.
34 mm., to alt.
21, diam 38 mm.
; depressed, glossy and finely striate, as in alleni with the aperture more oblique and the lip narrower than in albolabris of the same size.
The basal lip bears a low, flat-topped, wide tooth near the columella, and the outer lip is tinted fieshy-brown (fading in cabinet specimens).
Whorls 5^.
This particular form is yet known from Mr. Sargent's collections only.
A large, heavy form of P. albolabris, probably referable to var.
major, also occurs near Woodville.
P. a. fuscolabris bears such a relation to alleni as major to albolabris, or var.
normalis to typical P. anclrewsce.
Polygyra zaleta Binn.
(ccokln Binn.).
Seligman, Barry county, Mo.
Small specimens, 20-22 mm.
diam.
It is in the collection of the Academy from two other localities in Arkansas : Eureka Springs (F. A. Sampson) and ^tlabelvale (C. W. Johnson).
Polygyra indianorum tPilsbiy).
P. divesta indianorum Pils., Nautilus, XIII, p. 39 (August, 1S99).
Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 28 (July, 1900).
Tushkahoma, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Five specimens 25^ to 28 mm.
diam.
; also Standley,* I. T. Further experience with this form convinces me that it is quite distinct from P. divesta; a course prompted by Mr. Ferriss.
As he has collected and examined more specimens than any one else, T am the more disposed to depend upon his judgment.
Polygyra divesta (Old.).
Pilsbry, Nautilus, XIII, p. 38 (1899).
Chadwick, Christian county, and Seligman, Barry county.
Mo.
In Ai'kansas at Chester, Crawford county; Petit Jean, Yell county; Hot Springs, Garland county; Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county.
There is but little variation in the specimens from Ai'kansas, all of which are typical.
At Seligman, in southwestern Missouri, the size varies, tlie average being smaller than Arkansas shells.
The smallest specimens measure 15 mm.
diam., whorls -ih; the largest 18 mm.
with 4f whorls.
At Chadwick, Mo., the smallest specimens I have seen were taken, varying from 14^ to 17^ mm.
diam.
^olygyra binneyana Pil?Pilsbry, NautUus, XIII, p. 38 (August, 1899); Proc.
A. X. S.
Phila., 1900 p. 451; Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 28 (July, 1900).
Poteau* Choctaw Nation, I. T.; Rich Moimtain.=^= Polk county, Ark.
Polygyra appressa perigrapta PilsChester, Crawford county, and Petit Jean, Yell county.
Ark.
vSpeciinens typical but ratlier small, diam.
18-19Vmm.
A specimen was also sent from Gulf port, Miss.
Polygyra thyroides (Say).
Cf.
Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.. 1900, p. 452.
Seligman, Barry county.
Mo.
Small specimens of the globose bucculenta form; diam.
15^ to 18 mm; umbilicus generally nearly covered, as in P. clausa, but sometimes entirely closed.
The specimens have a decided resemblance to P. clausa.
Two out of eight adults have a small parietal tooth.
Antlers, Choctaw Nation, I. T.; Poteau, in the same district, near the Arkansas iDoundary.
Small specimens, diam.
18 mm.
Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county, also small.
At Hardy, Sharp county, in northeastern Arkansas, two specimens of a small form of thyroides were taken, measuring 17^V and 18 mm.
diam., and closely resembling P. clausa, from which they differ, however, in the more "dished" lip, less elevated contour, and slight angulation of the front of the last whorl.
One of these specimens is almost imperforate.
Polygyra clausa (Say).
Springfield, Green county.
Mo.
The specimens are quite typical.
This is.
so far as I know, the southwestern extreme of the known distribution of the species.
Two specimens were taken at Hardy, in northeastern Arkansas.
In Missouri and Arkansas P. clausa is sometimes very difficult to distinguish from the small form of P. thyroides, which occurs in that region.
This is the more remarkable because the two species in other parts of the country are quite readily distinguishable by the shells.
Polygyra pilsbryi Ferriss.
PI.
IX, figs.
1, 2, 3.
Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 29 (July, 1900).
Rich Mountain Station, Polk county.
Ark., is thus far the onlv locality for this species, which in its cuticiilar processes is the most aberrant of the gentts.
The original specimens were denuded of the long filaments characteristic of the species in a fresh condition, and hence the published description did not mention them.
These filaments are long, more or less curved, flexible, and arise in triangtilar laminae from the narrow riblets of the surface.
They stand in three principal rows on the body-whorl, one at the periphery, the others above and below it, the upper one ascending the spire midway between sutures.
The inner 2h or 8 Avhorls are free from filaments.
The base is encircled by two minor and imperfect rows inside the subperipheral one.
In all other Stenotremes except P. harbigera (Redf.)
the cuticular hairs form a comparatively close pile, and they are arranged in oblique sweeps, or are merely adnate and prostrate appendages trending in the direction of growth-strise.
In no other do they form a series of circular, concentric fringes.
P. harbigera has a single fringe of similar filaments, usually persisting at the suture only.
Polygyra labrosa (J'.land).
PI.
IX, figs.
4, 5, c. Helix labrosa Bid., Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist, of N. Y., VIT, 430 (1S61).
Stenotrema lahrosum (Bid.
), JBinney, Man.
Amer.
Land Shells, 274.
Petit Jean Mountain, Yell county, western Arkansas; Seligman, J^arry county, southwestern Missouri.
Also Chester,* Hot Springs,* Carrion Crow Mountain, Ark.
* Figured for comparison Avith the other Southwestern Stenotremes, the figures published hitherto being in outline and ciuite inadequate for exact comparisons.
The Tennessee specimens I have seen are more distinctly striate beneath and much paler than those from Arkansas, the aperture white.
From the data now available it looks as though the range of P. labrosa is discontinuous, being interrupted by a wide strip of low country along the Mississippi; but its distribution in Tennessee and Alabama calls for further investigation, as no definite locality in either State is given, either in the books of Mr. Binney or on the labels of specimens from Bland in the Academy collection.
Sampson has reported P. labrosa from eleven counties in middle and western Arkansas.
Polygyra uncifera Pilsbiy.
Pi.
IX.
figs.
7, 8, ',).
10.
P. hirsuta uncifera Pils., Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1900, p. 453 (September 27, 1900); Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 30, No.
139c (1900).
Polk county, western Arkansas, at Mena and the adjacent Chastat Mountains, and Rich Mountain.
The peculiar structure of the peristome of this form certainly indicates a distinct species, and not, as I at first thought, a subspecies of F. hirsuta.
Sometimes the parietal lamella is recur\-od at the outer end, hook-like, as in the type (fig.
7), ))ut in most of the specimens from Rich Mountain the recurved part is quite separate from the lamella, standing apart as a short entering denticle (figs.
8, 9, 10).
I have observed no other variation of note except in the size and number of whorls, the Rich Mountain series measuring from 6.5 mm.
diam.
with 4j whorls to 8.2 mm.
with 5j whorls.
The "fulcrum" is quite long, as in typical hirsuta, and notched above and below.
Polygyra hirsuta has not been reported from Arkansas, so far as I know, and evidence is still wanting that it occurs west of the Mississippi south of Kansas and Pettis county, Mo., whence it is recorded by Sampson.
I regard the specimens reported by Dr. Stearns from the "banks of Yaqui river near Guaymas"' as probably Eastern shells accidentally mixed with those from the locality named.
The southwestern range of P. hirsuta is apparently much more limited than that of many of the Eastern snails.
Poly&yra blandiana n. sp.
PI.
IX, figs, il, 12, 13.
Shell imperforate, depressed, obtusely angular at the periphery, the spire slightly convex, base much more convex, owing to the high position of the peripheral angle.
Chestnut-brown; the surface rather glossy and partially dull; nearly smooth, having weak growth-wrinkles above, fainter on the base; without hairs or their scars.
Whorls 4§, moderately convex, the last shortly deflexed in front.
Aperture resembling, in general, that of P. hirsuta, but narrower; the outer end of the parietal lamina is abruptly bent inward, and its crest a little notched.
The notch in the basal lip, which seems shallow in a basal view, is seen in front or oblique view to be deep, with a raised border.
The outer curve of the lip is rather deeply notched.
Fulcrum long, at a right angle with the aperture.
Alt.
4, diam.
8 mm.
Alt.
3.8, diam.
7 mm.
Springfield, Green county, southwestern Misscuu-i, copiously; Seligman'* Barry county, Mo., 3 specimens.
This very distinct race differs from P. hirsuta in the following particulars: The shell is much more depressed and obtusely angular at the periphery; it shows no trace of hairs; the parietal lamella is more curved and stands nearer the basal lip, thereby causing the aperture to be narrower; the notch in the basal lip is larger, etc.
In a rather large series of shells, no specimens at all intermediate in characters were found.
^Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XVII, 162 (1894).
Polygyra monodon imperforata Pils.
Proc.
Acad.
N. S.
Phila., 1900, p. 4.5.5.
Rich Mountain, Pollv coimty.
Ark.
The ordinaiy, widely distributed P. m. f rater na occurs in southwestern Missouri.
Polygyra monodon aliciae (Pils.).
Drift debris of the Arkansas river, at Petit Jean Mountain, Yell county, Ark.
; Hot Springs, Ark.
; DeKalb,* Ark., and Antlers,* I. T. BULIMULID^.
Bulimulus dealbatus (Say).
Seligman, Barry county, Mo.
Two gray-mottled specimens collected have the spire much longer than in ordinary dealbatus, and the whorls, except the last two, are more strongly striate.
The form approache.s var.
ragsdalei to some extent.
PUPID^.
Bifidaria armifera (Say).
Seligman, Barry county, ]\Io.
Bifidaria contracta (Say).
Seligman, Barry county, Mo.
; Rich Mountain, Polk county, Ark.
The season was not a propitious one for collecting minute snails, hence their scarcity in this collection.
AOHATINID^.
Cochlicopa lubrica (MiilL).
Seligman, Barry county, Mo.
OIRCINARIID^.
Circinaria concava (Say).
Petit Jean,* Yell county, Ark.
ZONITID.^.
Vitrea hammonis (Strom).
Rich Mountain, Ark.
; Seligman, Mo.
Vitrea indentata (Say).
Poteau, Tushkahoma and Antlers, I. T.; Rich Mountain.
Ark.
; Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county.
Ark.
; Seligman, Mo.
Section PAR A VITREA Pils.
V Pamvitrea Pils , Nautilus, XI, p. 130 (March, 1898).
Taxeodonta Pils., Nautilus, XI, p. 1:^2 (March, 189S).
Shell depressed or discoidal, perforate or narrowly umbilicate, composed of numerous closely coiled whorls, usually grooved radially above; thin and fragile; internally having obliquely radial laminae, or rows or pairs of teeth, at intervals of a third of a whorl, some or all of them often wanting, especially in old individuals.
Genital system without dart sac.
Radula with teeth of the central row tricuspid; two or three laterals on each side also tricuspid, the entocone raised high upon the mesocone, of which it forms a lateral spur.
Marginal teeth of the usual simple and thorn-like form.
Snails of this group have the discoidal shape and closely coiled whorls of the typical (European) section of Vitrea, and they have also a dentition of the same type, which is remarkable for the peculiar mode of specialization of the lateral teeth.
Paravitrea differs from typical Vitrea in the umbilicate axis and the development of teeth.
The compact coiling of the numerous whorls sufficiently distinguishes Paravitrea from the Hyalina type of Vitrea, such as V. hammonis, etc.
The species of Gastrodonta protected by teeth, have only a single pair near the aperture, constantly added to in front and absorbed behind with growth of the shell ; but in Paravitrea successive sets are formed to be absorbed later.
The adult or old individuals of species of Paravitrea usually absorb all the teeth, and form no new ones in the latest stages; or in some cases, as in V. capsella, teeth may be formed in occasional or rare very young individuals, while in the intermediate and later stages of growth none are developed.
In a few other species, such as V. clappi, V. sim.psoni and V. placentula, no teeth have yet been observed even in the young.
If my interpretation of the facts is correct, such species as V. andrewsoe and multidentata, which commonly possess teeth in adults, are old, relatively unchanged types; while forms toothless at all stages are the most evolved.
Paravitrea tJius consists of species and races in various stages of reduction and loss of teeth, but descendants from an ancestral stock which had them.
Another modification of the ancestral radially toothed Paravitrea is seen in certain species in which even-edged or serrate radial ribs or lamellae replace the rows of teeth.
The irregular or serrate edge of this lamella in some individuals indicates that it has been formed by coalescence of a row of teeth, the intervals between them becoming filled up, exactly as in the Clausiliidoe of eastern Asia the lunella has been formed by coalescence of a primitive row of palatal plicifi.
'* In this phylum, too, the armature has been lost in some species and in some individuals of species normally toothed; and by acceleration, ex® See these Proceedings for 1901, LIII, p. 638. ceedingly rare individuals of species which normally have rows of independent teeth acquire the radial barriers of forms more advanced in the scale of evolution.
This is exemplified by V. muUidentata, discussed in a previous paper/ and V. andrewsce, mentioned below.
All this merely goes to show that Paravitrea is in a condition of rapid Teadaptation.
Mutation takes place chiefly in two definite directions : (1) Toward progressively earlier loss of internal armature, which culminates in toothless species, and (2) the jormation of transverse barriers by coalescence of the teeth.
Under these circumstances, the path of the systematist is an exceptionally thorny one, although to the evolutionist the group is full of interesting suggestions.
No rigorous definitions are in order; and the distinction between '^species" and "subspecies" — always more or less indefinite — becomes largely a subjective one when large series of specimens are studied.
Only a series of individuals representing the whole life cycle, from youth to old age, can give one an adequate idea of the characteristics of the special form from any given locality.
Through the kindness of Mr. Ferriss and others, I have been able to study large series of most of the species, in addition to the collection of the Academy.
Aside from Mr. Binney's volumes, which contain merely descriptions of part of the species discussed below, the strongest paper dealing with them is Dr. V. Sterki's Notes on Zojiitidce?
The fact that Zonites andrewsi and the Eastern form commonly known as significans have few teeth or none when adult is set forth, and the author shrewdly suggests that these two forms may be the young of Z. placentulus and capsella respectively.
Dr. Sterki worked from small series of specimens from a few localities, and with much more ample material it is easy now to criticise his solution of the difficult problem; but he saw further into the relationships of these forms than any wi-iter up to that time.
My former course in separating the species into two sections, one of which {Taxeodonta) was placed under Gastrodonta, was a step backward.
No such arrangement would have been entertained had I examined the dentition.
In Gastrodonta the lateral teeth are more numerous than in Vitrea or Paravitrea, and conspicuously different in shape. '
These Proceedings for 1900, p. 145.
* Nautilus, VII, pp.
13-17, June, 1893.
It may be as well to note here that the Gastrodonta described by him under No.
3 (p. 14) is what I described as G. collisella.
His No.
6 (p. 15) is apparently G. coelaxis.
Key to average or normal specimens of Paravitrea.
I.
— Surface closely and regularly rib-striate or grooved, at least above; umbilicus minute.
a.
— ^Diam.
5-6.5 mm.
; spire flat or slightly convex, the suture deep ; 6^ convex, narrow whorls, subregularly and deeply grooved radially, above and below.
Umbilicus minute.
No internal teeth, V, clappi.
a'.
— Diam.
2.5 to 3.5 mm.
; very closely rib-striate above; whorls 5^-6, closely coiled, the spire but slightly convex.
b.
— One to three radial rows of 5 or 6 teeth each, visible through the base, T^.
multidentata .
h' .
— One to three radial curved barriers, visible through the base; surface not striated spirally; width of umbilicus about one-tenth that of the shell, .
.
V. lamellidens.
6".— With barriers like the preceding species, or none; surface finely striate, the stria?
decussated by very minute spirals; umbilicus wider, its diameter contained about 5^ times in that of the shell, V. walkeri.
II.
— Surface sculptured with spaced, unequal radial grooves, more ' conspicuous above.
a.
— Diam.
of adults 5 to 6 mm.
; toothless or with teeth in pairs.
b.
— Periphery median; aperture usually crcscentic.
Eastern forms.
c. — Shell toothless, V. capsella.
c' .
— Shell with internal pairs of teeth, .
Y .
c. lacteodens.
b' .
— Western forms (Missouri, Arkansas, Indian Territory), with the aperture subtriangular.
c. — -Young usually toothed; adults dome-shaped, with subbasal periphery V.significans.
c'.
— Not toothed; adults discoidal, .
.
.
V.simpsoni.
a'.
— Diam.
of adults 7 to 7^, mm.
; toothless or with 1 to 5 teeth in each row.
b.
— No teeth at any stage of growth; wJiorls 7 to 7h, V. placentula.
b' .
— Teeth developed in young shells, persisting or absent in adults; shell very fragile; luhorls S to Sh, V. andrewsce.
Titrea clappi (Pils.).
PL X, figs, l, la, lb, 8, 6a.
Gastrodonta clappi Pils., Nautilus, XII, p. 86 (December, 1898); XV, p. 37, PI.
2, figs.
8, 9 (August, 1901); Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p. 144.
Ferriss, Nautilus, XII, p. 99; XV, p. .58.
Range : Great Smoky Mountains, along the Tennessee-North Carolina boundary range from Thunderhead and Blockhouse Mountains to the Big Pigeon river.
The type locality is Miry Ridge.
The type (PI.
X, figs.
1, la, lb), with a diameter of 5,5 ram., has a minute umbilicus, about .2mm.
wide, and the spire of 7 whorls is convex.
In all other specimens seen the spire is lower, either flat or but slightly convex; and with one exception, all have the same minute umbilicus.
In one specimen, from Clingman Dome, No.
2,490 of the collection of Mr. George H. Clapp (PI.
X, figs.
8, 8a), the umbilicvis is decidedly larger, .6 mm.
wide, the shell having a diameter of 6.2 mm., with 6^ whorls.
Whether this is an individual variation or the representative of a race of more widely imibilicate shells, remains to be determined.
In 1900 Mr. Ferriss traced this beautiful and excessively rare species far to the northeast of the original locality, taking specimens at Mt.
LeConte, and at Indian Gap and Newfound Gap on the Big Pigeon river.
Vitrea lamellidens ( Pils1.
PL X, figs.
2, ;% 3a, -.ib.
Gastrodonta lamellidens Pils., Nautilus, XI.
p. 1.34 (April.
1S98); Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1900, p. 145.
Ferriss, Nautilus, XII, p. 99; XIV, pp.
52, 58.
Walker and Pilsbry, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 437.
Range : Great Smoky Mountains, along the Tennessee-North Carolina boundary, from the Little Tennessee river to Thunderhead Mountain (the type locality), and eastward in Graham county, N. C. ; also in the Black Mountain range at Bluff Mountain and Pinnacle of the Blue Ridge.
Similar to V .
multidentata, but armed within with curved, obliquely radial barriers instead of rows of teeth, and having a narrower imibilicus, its width contained about 10 times in that of the shell, while in multidentata it is contained only about 6 times.
In about 150 individuals collected in 1899 and previoasly, which I examined, all had from one to three lamellae; but a very large shell, diam.. 3.8 mm., found by Mr. Ferriss on Thunderhead in 1900, has no lamellae whatever — a feature of senility.
Even in the youngest individuals I have seen, such as PI.
X, fig, 2, diam.
1.4 mm., there are two or three barriers, though one would expect rows of teeth in so early a stage.
Not one T'.
multidentata has yet been found with lamellidens, which lives mainly in the moist heights, where the mountains lift their heads into the clouds.
We did hot find it in the "coves" below.
Vitrea multidentata (Binney).
PI.
X, figs.
6, 6a.
W. G. Binney, Man.
Amer.
Land Shells, p. 183 (1885).
The southernmost locality is Talassee Ford of the Little Tennessee river, whence Mr. Ferriss reports it.^ Figured for comparison with the preceding and following species.
With ordinary specimens of midlidentata there sometimes occur shells in which radial barriers similar to those of V. lamellidens replace the 9 Nautilus, XIV, 58.
~~~ teeth of tlie normal form.
Such specimens are known from West Granby, Hartford comity, Conn.; Garrettsville, 0.
(PL X, fig.
7); Greenwich, N. Y.
(Acad.
Coll.
); Deering, N. H.; Litchfield, N. Y.
(Coll.
G. H. Clapp) ; Ottawa, Can.
(Coll.
Bryant Walker),!"
and Ithaca, N. Y.
(Coll.
H. E. Sargent).
In the adult specimens I have seen, like thatfigured (diam.
3 mm.
), the umbilicus is about as wide as in multidentata.
In those examined by Mr. Clapp it is narrower, as in lamellidens; but his shells are not full grown, measuring only 2 to 2.5 mm.
in diameter.
From the occurrence of this form as rare single specimens, always with typical multidentata, I am still disposed to look on the specimens as accelerated individuals, sporadically occurring — the pioneers of a new race, further advanced in evolution than multidentata.
If my view is correct, this race of the future will be parallel to lamellidens, which has in the past undergone a like transformation.
A view apparently much simpler is held by Mr. Clapp, who regards the Northern specimens with continuous barriers as really V. lamellidens, which in this view has an extensive range north to Canada.
Vitrea walkeri (Pilsbry).
PI.
X, figs.
4, la, 5.
Gastrodonta xvalheri Pils., Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p 146 Ferriss Nautilis, XIV, pp.
52, 58.
Range : Great Smoky Mountains, in Graham county, N. C, and Monroe county, Tenn.
This form is about the size of V. multidentata, ordinarily measurinoabout 2.9 mm., with 5^ to 5f whorls, and an umbilicus contained about 5^ times in the diameter of the shell, much as in midtidentata.
It is either toothless or has radial barriers of the lamellidens type, but the wider umbilicus and minutely decussate surface readily separate the species from lamellidens.
No specimens have turned up since our expedition of 1899, and it remains one of the rarest of land snails.
Figs.
4, 4a represent a shell from Tuskeegee Mountain; fig.
5 a specimen from Talassee Ford of the Little Tennessee river.
Vitrea andrewsae (W. G. Binney).
PI.
XI, figs.
9, 9a, 10, 11, lla, 116.
Zonites andrewsi W. G. B., Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., I, p. 359, PI 15 fig D (1S79); [First] Supplement to Terr.
Moll., V, p. 144, PI.
2, fig.
D (reprint from Ann.
N. Y.
Acad.)
; Man.
Amer.
Land Sliells, p. 228, fig 251 Sterki Nautilus, VII, p. 16 (1893).
> B o .
oierKi, Gastrodonta andrewsce W. G. B., Walker and Pilsbrj^ Moll, of Mt.
Mitchell Region, N. C, in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 437.
Range: Roan Mountain (type locality) to Paint Rock on the French Broad river, and eastward to the Black Mountains, N. C. '-° Ottawa Xaturalist, XIV, p. 94, 1900.
A single specimen of " lamellidens " with multidentata, collected by Gilbert Heron, is recorded by Mr. Walker 14 Shell similar to V. placentula m general form and size, but the whorls increase more slowly, the last being narrower ; thin and fragile, often sprinkled with buff dots.
Teeth generally present, 3 to 5 being arranged in a radial row, or with several such rows within the basal wall, though the number of teeth may vary down to in the adult stage, or less frequently at any stage of growth.
Whorls S to Sh in adults, which measure 7 to 8 mm.
diam.
In some localities, as around Roan Mountain, teeth are almost invariably developed.
In some other localities they are rare in adult shells, and developed in the yomig ones only.
Such toothless individuals are separable from V. placentula by their slightly more fragile structure and greater number of narrower whorls.
In a multitude of shells examined from over a dozen localities, I found one young specimen with a diameter of 4 mm.
in which there was a single radial barrier, such as occurs in T'.
hnnellidens Pils."
The figures are from topotypes.
Vitrea placentula (Shuttle worth).
PI.
XI, Pgs.
i, la, 16.
Zon.
placentuhis Shuttl., Sterki, Nautilus, VII, p. 17 (1S93).
Vitrea capsella 'placentula Shuttl., Pils.. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p. 140.
This species, if such it be, differs from V .
capsella merel}' in the larger size, and in having an additional whorl.
Adult shells measure 7 mm.
diam.
, and have 7 or 7^ whorls.
I have never seen a specimen with teeth, although a good many shells, adult and young, from the Great Smoky Mountains and elsewhere have passed under my lens; but when very young individuals of placentula are found, I think they will prove to have pairs of teeth, at least in rare eases, as in capsella.
It is a trifle more solid than V. anclrewsw (W. G.
B.
), and in specimens of the same size the latter has a whorl more.
The range of V. placentula lies to the southwest of that of V. andrewsa.
It was not taken by Ferriss and Walker in the valley of the French Broad river, nor in the Black mountains.
Sterki's suggestion that andrewsai is the young of placentulus is not borne out by the facts now known.
Over a large part of the range of placentula, V. andmvsce does not occur.
The figured specimen is from Philadelphia, Toudon county, Tenn. Vitrea capsella (Old.).
PI.
XI.
figs.
2, 3, 4, 4a, ib.
Zonites capsella Gld., W. G. Binney, Man.
Amer.
Land Shells, p. 221.
The type locality of this species is ''Tennessee."
Two specimens "^ This specimen is No.
1G,963 of Mr. Bryant Walker's collection, taken by him at Paint Rock, N. C, on the soutli side of the French Broad river, near tlie Tennessee boundary.
SO labelled, presumably from the original lot, are in the collection of the Academy, given by Gould.
The species differs from V. significans chiefly in the different contour of the adult shell; from V .
placentula in the smaller size of the adults.
The shell measures from 5 to nearly 6 mm.
in diam., and has 6 to 7 whorls.
Rarely, a young indi\ddual may be found with a pair or two of internal teeth (PL XI, fig.
3, diam.
2 mm.
), recalling the ancestral dentate stock; but this stage is now passed through at an early age, or entirely skipped ; and in the series I have examined, from southwestern Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama, toothed individuals are very unusual.
V. capsella is not known from west of the Mississippi depression, being represented there by the very closely related T'.
significaiis and V. simpsoni.
The figures represent specimens from Woodvilie, Ala., collected by ^Ir.
H. E. Sargent.
Vitrea placentula and significans might, with no great violence, be subordinated to capsella as subspecies.
Vitrea capsella lacteodens n. v. PL XI, figs.
5, 5a.
Hyalina significans Bid., Harper, Journ.
Cincinnati Society of Natxiral History, IV, 1881, p. 258, figs.
2, 2a.
Zonites significans Bid., Wetherby, Journ.
Cin.
Soc.
N. H., IV, December, 1881, p. 328, No.
25.
W. G. Binney, Man.
Amer.
Land Shells, p. 228, fig.
250 (exclusive of quotation from Bland, etc.).
Sterki, Nautilus, VII, pp.
16, 17 (1893).
Gastrodonta significans Bid., Pilsbrv, Moll, of the Great Smoky Mts., Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p. 147.
Vitrea capsella, specimens from Tuskeegee Mountain, Graham county, N. C, Pilsbry, t. c, p. 140.
Type specimens from "Ramp Cove," Tuskeegee Mountain, N. C, taken by James H. Ferriss and H. E. Sargent, 1899.
The shell is similar to V. capsella, except that most specimens have one to three pairs of tubercular teeth within the last whorl.
The sutures are a trifle less impressed, and the striation perceptibly closer.
It differs from V. significans in the usual persistence of the teeth in the adult stage, and the median position of the periphery.
In fuUy adult significans the periphery is subbasal, and there are no teeth.
Alt.
2.6, diam.
5 mm.
; whorls 6^.
This particular race occurs, so far as I know, only in the mountains of southwestern North Carohna.
It is not separable from T".
capsella by any hard-and-fast character, but merely by the persistence of the pairs of teeth in most adult shells of any given lot.
Thus in the type lot, collected by Mr. Sargent on Tuskeegee Mountain, Graham county, N. C, one adult out of thirteen before me is quite toothless, and by itself would be called capsella.
Some others have only one or two teeth remaining.
It is the general character of the specimens from any one place, not the particular condition of each individual, that must be considered.
Harper, Wetherby, W. G. Binney and Sterki have mistaken this race for the Western V. significans, and I formerly followed this erroneous identification.
Vitrea significans (Bid.
)PIXI, figs, 7, 7a, lb, s, sa.
Helix significans Bid., Amer.
Journ.
of Conch., II, p. 372, PL 21, fig.
9 (not good).
Zonites significans Bid., Binney, op.
plur., exclusive of East Tennessee form.
Range: Originally described from Fort Gibson, Indian Territory, this species has been taken to my knowledge in Arkansas, at Mabelvale (C. W. Johnson^^), and in southwestern Missouri, at Seligman, Barry county (Ferriss, 1901).
As Bland stated in his original description, the young shells are sometimes provided with one or two pairs of tubercular teeth within, visible through the base of the shell as white spots.
The full-grown shells are toothless, more or less dome-shaped, the periphery being situated below the middle of the last whorl, the circumference of which is flattened and sloping.
The base is very concave in the middle.
This gives the shell a peculiar and uniisual contour.
Halfgrown and young individuals are normal in shape, and very similar to V. capsella and its variety lacteodens, from which, indeed, it would be almost impossible to separate them except by the locality.
The spire, seen from above, is about the same in capsella, placentula and significans.
Figs.
7, 7a, 7b represent fully adult specimens of the typical form from Seligman, Barry county.
Mo., collected by Mr. Ferriss; figs.
8, 8a are immature sheUs from the same place and lot.
Vitrea simpsoni (Pilsbry).
PL XI, figs.
G, 6a, 6b.
Zonites capsella Gld., Simpson, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
for 1888, p. 452.
Zonites simpsoni Pils., These Proceedings for 1889, p. 412, PI.
12, figs.
8-10.
Vitrea simpsoni Pils., These Proceedings for 1900, p. 456; Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, pp.
30, 31.
Range : Western Arkansas and Indian Territory ; Mena and Hatton's Gap, Polk county, in western, Morris Ferry, Little River county, southwestern Arkansas (J. H. Ferriss); Limestone Gap, I. T. (C. T. Simpson).
This species is more depressed than significans or capsella, with the last whorl decidedly wider, when viewed from above.
It has not j^et '^ Reported in the Catalogue of Land Shells, 1898, p. 26, under T'.
simpsoni, No.
275. been found with teeth, but so far only smaU numbers have been takea.
The type is figured.
Zonitoides minusculus (Binn.).
Sehgman, Barry county, Mo.
Zonitoides arboreus (Say).
Poteau, Tushkahoma, and Antlers, I. T.; Seligman, Mo.
Gastrodonta demissa (Binney).
Carrion Crow Mountain, Pope county, Ark.
Twenty-one specimens, most of them narrowly perforate, with a very heavy internal callus; four have a low lamella, and one is imperforate.
They therefore imite characters of the varieties lamellata and hrittsi, hke those from other places in their same general region.
Cf.
these Proceedings for 1900, p. 456.
At Hot Springs, Garland county, Ark., G. demissa hrittsi was taken, a few of the specimens having an internal lamina.
Various forms of demissa were taken at Poteau* and Tushkahoma,* I. T., and Rich Mountain,* Ark., reported by Mr. Ferriss.
ENDODONTID^.
Pyramidula solitaria (Say).
Reported from Rich Mountain, Polk county.
Ark., by Mr. Ferriss.
Pyramidula alternata (Say).
Typical specimens at Petit Jean, Yell county, Ark., and SeHgmar., Mo., and Standley, Choctaw Nation, I. T. Also reported by Ferriss from Rich Mountain and Hot Springs, Ark.
Pyramidula perspectiva (Say).
Reported by Ferriss from Seligman, Mo.
; Petit Jean and Rich Mountain, Ark.
Helicodiscus lineatus (Say).
Seligman, Barry county.
Mo.
SUCCINEID^.
Succinea avara Say.
Seligman, Mo.
; Rich Mountain, .^k.
LIMN^ID^.
Limnsea columella Say.
Winding Stair Mountain, I. T. EXPLAXATIOX OF PlaTES IX, X, XI.
Plate IX, Figs.
1, 2, 3.
— Polygyra 'pilshryi Ferriss.
Topotype.
Figs.
4, 5, 6.
— Polygyra hlandiana Pils.
{Helix labrosa Bland, not Wood).
Type.
Petit Jean Mountains, Yell county, Ark.
Fig.
7.
— -Polygyra uncifera Pils.
Cotype.
Mena, Polk county, Ark.
Figs.
8, 9, 10.
— Polygyra uncifera Pils.
Rich Mountain, Polk county, Ark.
Figs.
11, 12, 13.
— Polygyra hlandiana Pils.
Cotype.
Springfield, Green county.
Mo.
Plate X, Figs.
1, la, \h.
— Vitrea clappi Pils.
Three views of the tj^pe.
MiryRidge, Great Smoky Mountains.
Fig.
2.
— Vitrea lamellidens Pils.
Young individual from Thimderhead, diam.
1.4 mm.
No.
77,752 A. N. S. P. Figs.
3, 3a, 36.
— V. lamellidens.
Thunderhead.
Diam.
3.5 mm.
No.
77,752 A. N. S. P. Figs.
4, 4a.
— F. walkeri Pils.
Front and basal views of the type.
Fig.
5.
— Vitrea walkeri Pils.
Base of shell from Talassee Ford.
No.
77,703 A. N. S. P. Fig.
6, 6a.
— Vitrea midtidentata Binn.
Basal and front views of a typical specimen from West Granby, Hartford county, Conn. No.
57,104 A. N. S. P. Fig.
7.
— Vitrea multidentata Binn.
Base of a specimen with the teeth united into an even barrier.
Garrettsville, O.
No.
66,858 A. N. S. P. Figs.
8, 8a.
— Vitrea clappi Pils.
Openlv umbilicate specimen from Clingman Dome.
No.
2,490 Coll.
G. H. Clapp.
Plate XI, Figs.
1, lo, \h.
— Vitrea placentula Shuttl.
Philadelphia, Loudon, county, Tenn. No.
5,490 A. N. S. P. Fig.
2.
— Vitrea capsella Gld.
Half-grown shell, diam.
3 mm.
WoodviUe, Ala. No.
68,820 A. N. S. P. Fig.
3.
— Vitrea capsella Gld.
Young specimen with two pairs of internal teeth, diam.
2 mm.
WoodvUle, Ala. No.
68,820.
Figs.
4, 4a, 4b.
— Vitrea capsella Gld.
Adult from Woodville, Ala., diam.
4.5 mm.
No.
68,820 A. N. S. P. Figs.
5.
5a.
— Vitrea capsella lacteodens Pils.
Tuskeegee Mountain, Graham county, N. C, No.
77,798 A. N. S. P. Figs.
6, 6a, 66.
— Vitrea simpsoni Pils.
Type.
Limestone Gap, I. T. No.
61,676 A. N. S. P. Figs.
7, 7a, 76.
— Vitrea significans Bid.
A fuUy adult specimen from Seligman, southwestern Missouri.
No.
81,446 A. N. S. P. Figs.
8, 8a.
— Vitrea significans Bid.
Young shell with internal teeth, diam.
3.8 mm.
Same locality.
Figs.
9, 9a.
— Vitrea andrewsce W. G. B. Half-grown shell from Roan Mountain, N. C, diam.
4.5 mm.
Fig.
10.
— Vitrea andrewsce W. G. B.
Younger sheU, diam.
3 mm.
Figs.
11, llo, 116.
— Vitrea andrewsce W. G. B.
Adult, Roan Mountain, N. C. No.
67,577 A. N. S. P. This and figs.
9, 9a and 10 are from specimens of the original lot, collected by Mrs. George Andrews.
A REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN ANTS OF THE GENUS LEPTOTHORAX Mayr.'
BY WILLIAM MORTON WHEELER.
The diminutive species of the cosniopohtan genus Leptothorax are among the most interesting though least conspicuous of our ants.
No other group of Formicidse appears to present such diversity of habits, while at the same time adhering so closely to certain rather definite generic peculiarities.
The species all form small colonies, often of not more than twenty-five to fifty individuals, and occupy small cavities in the soil, or between stones, or in the tissues of plants.
These cavities are either of their own excavation, or found ready to their use in the form of accidental openings or the burrows and galleries of larvas, other ants, etc.
Favorite nesting-places are the abandoned woody galls of the Cynipidae, like the galls of Holcaspis cinerosus on the live-oaks of central Texas, the galls of Diptera, like Trypeta soUdaginis on the golden-rod, etc.
Even hollow nuts on the ground under the trees are sometimes tenanted by species of Leptothorax.
Brief notes on the nesting habits, so far as these are known, are appended to the descriptions of the different species enumerated below.
The small size and obscure location of the Leptothorax nests, which form a remarkable contrast with the teeming, conspicuous formicaries of other ants like Formica rufa, F. exsectoidcs, Pogonomyrmex barbatus and Ischnomyrmex CockereUi, will readily account for our rather limited knowledge of the North American species.
Then, too, none of our Leptothorax are really common, except in certain circumscribed localities, so that the discoA-ery of the species is more often a matter of accident than of deliberate search, even when one is out looking for ants and nothing else.
Single workers are found running about on the ground or on the trunks and branches of trees in search of sweet exudations, small insects or the remains of large insects that have been rejected by si^iders, birds, etc.
The nests are most readily found by following up such single workers, often a tedious and time-consuming task, as these insects will sometimes run about for an hour or 1 Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Texas, No.
48. more in search of food before returning to the nest and reveaUng its hidden entrance, a tiny hole like a pin-prick in the soil or bark.
None of the species are known to attend aphides, and the nests very rarely or never contain guests or synoeketes of any description.
The Leptothorax themselves, however, sometimes live as guests in the nests of larger ants.
Thus L. Emersoni is always found as a guest in the nests of Myrmica brevinodis, and L. acervorum of Europe and its American variety convivialis also exhibit a decided tendency toward xenobiosis.
The typical L. curvispinosus appears to act as the slave of Tomognathus americanus, an extremely rare ant, which is probably similar in habits to its European congener, T. suhhwis.
JMost of the species of Leptothorax are very timid, and many of them readily "feign death" when roughly handled.
Nevertheless they are often extremely hostile and vindictive toward other ants, especially toward ants of their own species from strange nests.
For our first insight into the habits of Leptothorax we are indebted to Forel, who recorded his observations in the charming Fourrnis de la Suisse (pp.
339-341).
The more important of these observations are given in the following translation : ''April 17, 1868, I found in the bark of a pine-tree a very small colony of L. tuber o-affiiiis, consisting of a fertile female, about a dozen workers and some eggs.
I lost four of the workers during the capture and broke two of the legs of the female.
I subsequent!}'
placed this little family in a pasteboard box with a glass cover.
It prospered; the female got on well with her four remaining legs ; some of the eggs hatched and the larvae were fed.
The workers would eat nothing but the honey which I gave them; they were very timid and settled down with the female in the box.
They gave little heed to the female, which lived almost like them.
I have noticed that it is only the workers of the genera Plagiolepis and Lasius and of certain species of Formica that assiduously court their fertile females.
Leptothorax goes to the opposite extreme: the females live almost like the workers, being merely somewhat less inclined to work.
Huber was wrong, therefore, in generalizing the role of the fertile females of Losiiis, etc.
By MsiV 24 the female of my captive formicary had again laid some eggs, and the larvse had grown very large.
The workers ate larvne of Lasius that were given to them.
June 4 one of the larvse became a worker pupa, but there remained only two large larv?e and the eggs.
June 10 there were two pupoe and eight or nine small larvse had hatched from the eggs.
Of the latter two were yellow and retained this color, the others were whitish.
By June 13 thev had srown.
I then 2;ave mv L. iuhero-ajjims a worker pupa of L. Nylanderi, and they took care of it.
These ants never attempted to escape when I opened the box.
They impressed me by the delicacy of the sense of touch in their antennae, as they felt of little particles with remarkable precision and distinguished their C[ualities (one of the eggs of their ciueen, a grain of dust, a particle of honey, etc.).
June 21 I gave them some pupce of Tetramorum ccBS'pitum which they killed and ate.
On June 25 the pupa of L. Nylanderi had hatched, and the residting worker lived on good terms with the tubero-afflnis, working with them.
June 28 I lost several workers through carelessness; there remained only the queen with five worker tuhero-affims and the worker Nylanderi; the small larvae had grown considerably and began to pupate.
June 29 one of the older pupae hatched and the other soon followed, so that two worker tuberoaffinis were added to the colony.
The same day I gave my ants worker pupae of T. cwspitiim.
They cared for two or three of the younger ones and killed the others which were about to hatch, or rather allowed them to die through neglect.
July 15 three more small larvae made their appearance.
July 16 one of the two pnpce of T. cwspitum, which they had continued to foster, hatched and lived thenceforth with these ants of a different genus, on the best of terms.
July 18 the second pupa of T. ccespituni followed suit, but this worker was somewhat malformed and died in a week.
The first Tetramorium, on the contrary, prospered apace; it was larger than any of the Leptothorax workers and was conspicuous on account of its activity.
It ran about continually in all parts of the box, but kept returning from time to time to the Leptothorax.
By July 29 a fresh batch of little tubero-affinis larvae had grown up, and the pupae of the second generation began to hatch.
August 16 I placed the seven surviving tubero-affijiis workers and their queen in alcohol, as the colony had suffered considerably during my trip from Zurich to Vaux.
It had lived in captivity four months "June 25, 1868, having found a formicary of L. acervorum in the bark of a pine, with a winged female and some female pupae, I captured and preserved it in a box till August 16.
Several females hatched in the box.
The females of this species are not larger than the workers.
I often saw these little females carrying the larvae and pupae about like the workers.
Strange to say, nearly all of them lost their wings within two or three days from the time of hatching.
I even saw one of them obviously endeavoring to rid herself of her wings by twisting them about.
As they w^ere born in a box containing no males, they could not have been fecundated.
Hence I cannot conceive why they removed their wings.
Can it be that the formicaries of Leptothorax are kept up in this way, because the workers cannot retain the fertile females in the nests by force, on account of the small size of the nests and their position on vertical walls, or because the males may not often be present simultaneously with the winged females?
Would not these dealated females be fecundated later by males appearing in the same formicary?
The fact remains that one often finds in Lcptothorax nests dealated females with small abdomens and apparently not fecundated, together with others obviously fertile.
I refrain from deciding the question."
The questions asked by Forel so long ago still remain unanswered, although it is clear that the colonies are not as a rule renewed and maintained b}^ a retention of the virgin females in the parental nest.
My own observations show that the little colonies of these ants are founded by single fertile females, in the very same manner as the huge formicaries of Formica, Camponofus, etc.
On several occasions I have found dealated females of Lcptothorax either alone or with a very few eggs, larvae or pupse in isolated oak-galls {e.g., L. obturator q. v.).
Moreover, I have never found more than one queen in a nest in any of the species that I have taken, except at the very height of the breeding season (May and early June in Texas, midor late summer in the Northern States).
Although in such nests I have sometimes seen several dealated females, which probably arose as Forel has described, I am inclined to believe that all of these, except the mother queen, must soon leave the nest and establish colonies of their own.
The question naturally suggests itself: Why are the colonies of Lcptothorax so small?
I believe that this peculiar condition may be traced, in part at least, to the following causes, either singly or collectively: 1.
The females are but little larger than the Avorkers (in L. Emcrsoni they are not even larger than the workers) and this means relatively small fecundity.
This appears to be the case also in other ants that have females of the same or nearly the same size as the workers (Myrmecina, Stcnamma s.
str.
; Ponerinae).
And reciprocally, owing to this reduced fecundity, the cjueen cannot be abundantly fed, since she produces but few workers.
2.
The workers of Lcptothorax are probably short-lived as compared with many other ants.
At least one is inclined to believe this from the rather high mortality among these insects in artificial nests.
3.
In most species of Lcptothorax each colony contains only a single fertile queen.^ Other observations on the habits of Lepiothorax will be found in the following works: Adlerz, " Myrmecologiska Studier," II.
Svenska Myror och deras Lefnadsforhollanden, Bihang till K. Sve7iska Vet.
Akad.
HandL, Bd.
XI, No.
18, The geographical distribution of the North American Leptothorax, though very incompletely knoAvn, is not altogether devoid of interest.
So far as it is possible to generalize from existing data, it would seem that the species are rather uniformly distributed over the entire continent, not excepting at least a portion of the Arctic regions.
By this I do not mean to say that the same species occur everywhere, or even that the distribution of a particular species is very wide, but that the ant-fauna of any given locahty usually comprises a few species of Leptothorax.
This indicates a wide range of adaptability to differences of soil, moisture, temperature, vegetation, etc., within the same genus.
The extremes of this adaptation seem to be represented by forms like L. curvispinosus, which inhabits the humid shady woods of the North Atlantic States, and L. Pergandei, w^hich occurs even on the sunscorched soil of the Trans-Pecos deserts.
We have few species in common with Europe, probably only L. acervorum and L. muscorum, both presenting distinct American varieties or subspecies analogous to and occurring over the same territory as the American forms of Formica fiisca, rufa and sanguinea and Myrmica rubra.
All of these forms occur far to the north and to considerable altitudes, both in Europe and America, and undoubtedly constitute important elements of an ancient palaearctic ant-fauna.^ At lo.w altitudes and within our territory the forms of L. acervorum and muscorum seem to be confined to the northernmost tier of States.
The twenty species of Leptothorax recognized in the present paper as occurring in America north of Mexico are about equally distributed between the two divisions of the genus, which are characterized respectively by the workers and females having 11(the males 12-) jointed antennae, and the workers and females having 12(the males 13-) jointed antennae.
It is an interesting fact that the species with 11jointed antennae in the workers are mainly confined to the Northern and Eastern States, those with 12-jointed antennae to the Western and Southwestern territory.
Exceptions are L. curvispinosus and acervorum, which present varieties even in New Mexico (though at considerable altitudes !)
and L. tricarinatus , which was described from South 1886, and III.
Tomognathus sublajvis Mayr, ibid., Bd.
XXI, No.
4, 1896; Wheeler, "The Compound and Mixed Xests of American Ants," A7n.
Natural., Vol.
XXXV, Nos.
414, 415, 417 and 418, 1901, and " Ethological Observations on an American Ant {Leptothorax Emersoni Wheeler)," Arch.
j. Psych, u.
Neurol., Bd.
II, Heft 1 u.
2, 1903 pp.
1-31.
^ L. acervorum var.
convivialis (q. v.) has been taken on the summit of Las Vegas Range, N. M., at an altitude of 11,000 feet, by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell in xenobiosis with another boreal ant, Myrmica brevinodis.
L. acervorum var.
Kincaidi was described by Pergande from Alaska.
Dakota.
All the new species described in the present paper belong to the group with 12-jointed antennae, and it is probable that many more members of this group remain to be discovered in the West and Southwest.
Both groups are represented in ^lexico and Central America.
To judge from Emery's table of the South American species, those with U-jointed antennae predominate again south of the Equator.
Most of these species, however, whether having 11or 12-jointed antennae, have acute, projecting angles to the pronotum, and are therefore consigned to a particular subgenus, Goniothorax, by Emery.
* The small group comprising the subgenus Dichothorax Emery (possibly monotypic) is confined to the Southern United States.
This subgenus resembles the subgenus Temnothorax j\Iayr (including only T. recedens Nyl.)
in many respects.
It is interesting to note that this form occurs only in Southern Europe.
While some of the European Leptothorax (like tuberum and unifasciatus) are known to be extremely variable, the North American materials at the disposal of previous writers have not been sufficient to prove the same for any of the species on this side of the Atlantic.
Nor am I able to throw as much light as I could wish on the limits of variabihty in our species, although my material certainly shows that some of our species are decidedly unstable.
Such are, e.g., L. acervorum, curvispinosus , nitens and possibly also Schaumi and fortinodis, especially if the two latter realty represent extreme forms of the same species, as seems to be indicated by the existence of intermediate forms.
The genus Leptothorax was established by ^layr in 1855,' on a number of species previously included by Nylander and other myrmecologists in the composite genus Myrmica, a genus which at one time contained practically all the known ants of the subfamily Myrmicinae.
Though some of the characters of Leptothorax are not very definite, the genus has nevertheless stood the test of nearly half a century and will probably continue to stand.
Like many ant-genera, and genera of other animals also, for that matter, it is recognized not so much by a description of its characters, as by its peculiar and almost unmistakable habitus.
He who has had little experience in handling ants will be liable to confound the workers of Leptothorax with the workers of Pheidole or vice versa, but to the experienced eye even the gait of the *'Studi sulle Formiche della Fauna Neotropica," Bull.
Soc.
Ent.Ital.
Ann., XXVIII, 1896, pp.
26, 27.
'• ■' Formicina Austriaca," Yerh.
K. K. zool.-hot.
Ver.
Wien, Bd.
5, lSo.5, pp 431-433. ants of these two genera differs very decidedly.
The following are the leading diagnostic characters of the genus Leptothorax.
LEPTOTHORAX Mayr.
Worker.
— Small, monomorphic.
Head longer than broad, and broader than the thorax, ^landibles broad, 4-5-toothed.
Maxillary palpi 5-jointed; labial palpi 3-jointed.
Clypeus variable in shape, slightly convex or impressed in the middle, its anterior border somewhat rounded, entire or sinuately excised in the middle.
Frontal carinse almost straight, diverging very little behind.
Antennse 11or 12-jointed, usually with a distinctly 3-jointed club.
Frontal area present.
Eyes of moderate size, near the middle of the lateral surface of the head.
Ocelli occasionally present, especially in ergatoid or subergatoid individuals.
Thorax slender, usualh^ somewhat broader in front, at least above, and narrower behind.
Promesonotal suture obsolete; mesoepinotal suture present or absent, the thorax at this region either without any constriction, with a faint or a very decided (subgen.
Dichothorax) constriction.
Epinotum armed with a pair of teeth, or spines of variable development.
Petiole with a short peduncle in front and surmounted by a node of variable form, its lower anterior surface armed with a median tooth.
Postpetiole nodiform, sometimes more campanulate, unarmed below.
Gaster large, broadly elliptical, compressed dorsoventrally, its basal three-fourths formed by the first segment.
Sting well developed, at least in many of the species.
Legs rather stout, the femora fusiform, somewhat incrassated in the middle, the tibiae tMcker toward their distal ends.
Spurs of middle and hind legs simple, not pectinate.
Integument very hard.
In most species the hairs on the body, and in a few also those on the appendages, are short, erect, clavate and under a high magnification finely crenulate.
Our species are yellow, brown, red or black, and the majority of them have the head, thorax and pedicel more or less sculptured and in great part opaque.
The gaster in all our species is very smooth and shining.
Female.
— Somewhat larger and more robust than the worker, or of the same size.
Antennse of the same number of joints.
Eyes and ocelli moderately prominent.
Thorax with its sides subparallel or somewhat bulging in the middle.
Mesonotum conspicuously flattened.
Epinotal spines shorter and often stouter than in the worker.
Basal surface of epinotum nearly horizontal.
Petiole and postpetiole like the corresponding segments of the worker, the node of the former often more acute.
Gaster like that of the worker, at least its basal twoooo thirds formed by the first segment.
Wings milky or yellowish hyaline, with very pale and indistinct veins and stigma.
Radial cell sometimes open, sometimes closed.
There is a single cubital cell.
Transverse vein meeting cubital vein at its bifurcation; internal cubital often indistinct.
Discal cell closed.
The pilosity of the female is usually less pronounced than that of the worker, though of the same character; the sculpturing is rougher.
Male.—Oi the same size as the worker, or but httle larger, and usually darker in color.
Head short and as broad or broader than the thorax.
Mandibles variable, narrow, truncate and toothless, or dentate or denticulate.
Clypeus somewhat convex.
Antenna 12-13jointed; scape short, funiculus very long, slightly thickened at its distal end to form, in many cases, an indistinct 4-jointed club.
Eyes and ocelli large and prominent.
Mayriaii furrows of mesonotum very distinct.
Epinotum not prolonged backward, with two small swellings, rarely with two short teeth, in the place of the worker armature.
Petiole more slender and with lower node than in the worker.
Postpetiole nodiform or subcampanulate.
Gaster rather slender, elongate elliptical, often shghtly flattened dorsoventrally.
Legs' slender.
Wings as in the female.
Hairs on the body and appendages usually much less conspicuous than in the worker, not clavate.
I subjoin a table for the identification of the workers of the various Leptothorax species known to occur in America north of Mexico.
As the females of only half and the males of less than half of our species are known, it is hardly worth while to construct tables for the identification of the winged sexes.
^ 6 The following species have been described from Mexico and Central America and m all probability comprise but a very small portion of, the species actually occurring in these countries: f ^ ^^ ciLtudiiy 1.
Leptothorax Stolli Forel, Bull.
Soc.
Vaud.
Sci.
Nat.
(2), XX p 3.5'^ 1894 fm^,'lltl899!75?
'-$'^"""'P'-''^"' '^^''' P'""' ForeX^BfolT'Celtr: Guatemala, summit of crater of the Volcan de Agua (13 000 feet')Uvinoimdersrones. '
^^' "'"» 2.
L. echinatinodis Forel, Compt.
Rend.
Soc.
Ent.
Bek XXX IS^ifi n vlviii ^ ; Biol.
Centr.
Am., Ill, 1899, p. 5.5.
^" ' ' ^^ "' Rio Janeiro, Brazil.
Lives in hollow twigs.
The t>T)ical form has not been it°s variS America, but only the foUo^-ing subspecies and possibly Subsp.
aculeatinodis Emery, Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Ital XXYUI 1896 d 60 8 Costa Rica, Jimenez.
Also Brazil. '
' , i ■ ^^.
^ .
Var.
pungent inodis Emery, Bull.
Mus.
Zool.
Torino XI 1896 p "^ O Mexico, Atoyac en Vera Cruz ; Panama. '
' ' ' • -• -• 3.
L. Pittieri Forel, Biol.
Centr.
Am., Ill, 1899, p. 56.
^ .
Costa Rica.
4.
LTristani Emery, Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Ital., XXVIII, 1896 p 61 xQ Forel, Biol.
Centr.
Am., Ill, 1899, p. .56 Jimenez, Costa Rica.
* Table for the identification of the workers of Leptothorax.
1.
Antennoe 11-jointed, -■ Antennae 12-jointed, ^^ 2.
Thorax with faint but distinct mesoepinotal constriction, 3 Thorax without mesoepinotal constriction, ' 3.
Postpetiole sculptured, opaque, ^ Postpetiole smooth and shining above, o 4.
Tibice and antennal scape witliout clavate hairs, -5 Tibise and antennal scape with short, erect, clavate hairs, L. hirticornis Emery.
5.
Hairs on body long and thin, not clavate, muscorum Nyl.
var.
sordidus var.
nov.
Hairs on bodv short and clavate, acervorum Mayr.
subsp.
canadensis Prov., etc.
6.
Tibia with clavate hairs, Proranc/im Emery.
TibijB without clavate hairs, Emersom Wheeler.
7.
Epinotal spines very short, dentiform, 8 Epinotal spines long " 8.
Petiole not conspicuouslv larger in profile than the postpetiole, Schaumi Roger.
Petiole conspicuouslv larger in profile than the postpetiole, fortinodis Mayr.
(and its varieties).
9.
Dark-colored, with very long, horizontal epinotal spines, lo7igispinosus Roger.
Yellow, sometimes more of less infuscatcd; epinotal spines shorter, curvispinosus Mayr.
(and its subspecies and varieties).
10.
Without mesoepinotal constriction ; hairs on body clavate, not abundant, 11 With pronounced mesoepinotal constriction, hairs abundant, not clavate (subgenus Dicfu)thorax Emery), 19 11 Head very largely smooth and shining, j-* 'i-' '^'^ Head opaque or subopaque, or smooth only along the median hne or behind, ^"^ 12 Very dark-brown, or black, antennal scape almost reaching the posterior angle of the head, Schmittii sp.
nov. Yellow, or somewhat infuscated; scape reaching to | the distance between the eye and the posterior corner of the head, niiens Emery (and its subspecies and variety).
13.
Anterior margin of clypeus entire, rounded, .... 14 Anterior margin of clypeus sinuately excised, lb 14.
Head and thorax very coarsely reticulate-rugose, .
.
.
texanus sp.
nov_.
Head and thorax not coarsely reticulate-rugose, l-'5 15.
Clypeus produced, with angularly projecting anterior border, tricarinatus Emery.
Clypeus not produced, with broadly rounded anterior border, neomexicanus sp.
nov. 16.
Black or dark-brown species, Y^ Yellow species, ^^ 5.
L, petiolatus Forel, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., XLV, 1901, p. 129.
^ .
Wheeler, Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., XLV, 1901, p. 201.
Cuernavaca, Mexico .
"A single nest, consisting of a deiilated queen and about 25 workers in a Tillandsia in parabiosis with Cryptocerus and Cremasiigarter."
17.
Petiole slender, seen from above three times as long as broad, node A-erj;low and rounded, obturator sp.
nov. Petiole only U times as long as broad; node higher and shorter, nevadensis sp.
nov. IS.
Head opaque throughout, petiolar node round in profile ; length 1.5-1.75 mm., terrigena sp.
nov. Head with a smooth median line, node of petiole somewhat angular; length 2.25, • Andrei Emery.
19.
Summit of petiolar node seen from behind impressed or concave, Pergandel Emery, Summit of petiolar node seen from behind convex, rounded, jloridanus Emery.
1.
Leptothorax hirticoruis Emery.
L. hirticornis Emerv, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f. Svst , YIII, 1S94, pp.
317 and 319.
^. '
Worker.
— Length 2.75 mm, Clypeus hardly impressed in the middle.
Antenna?
11-jointed, joints 2-7 of the funiculus shorter than broad, club but relatively little thickened.
Thorax slender, distinctly impressed at the mesoepinotal suture.
Epinotal spines of average size, pointed, strongly compressed.
Petiole robust, its anterior and posterior dorsal slopes forming a slightly obtuse angle; seen from above the sides of the petiole are subparallel.
Postpetiole small, almost trapezoidal, a little broader than long.
Clypeus somewhat shining.
Head, thorax and pedicel opaque, densely foveolate-punctate, the upper surface of the head also finely and rather regularly longitudinally rugose.
Hairs very short, strongly clavate, erect, not only covering the body but also the antennal scape and legs.
Bright testaceo-ferruginous, gaster and middle of front infuscatcd.
Type locality: Washington., D C. (Pergande).
Described from a single specimen in the collection of Prof. Emery.
2.
Leptothorax muscorum Nylander, var.
sordidus var.
nov. L. muscorum Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f .
Sj^st., VIII, 1S94, p. 31S.
^ .
Worker (PL XII, fig.
2).— Length 2-2.75 mm.
Clypeus not impressed in the middle, its anterior border nearly straight, not produced.
Antennae 11-jointed; scape reaching to midway between the eye and the posterior angle of the head ; first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together, terminal joint as long as the two preceding joints of the club.
Thorax broad in front, Avith rounded humeri, much narrower behind, with a distinct mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines of moderate length, directed backward, and slightly outward, about as far apart at their bases as they are long.
Petiole from above suboblong, with slightly convex sides, nearly twice as long as broad; in profile the anterior and posterior slopes of the node are of nearly equal length, the former slightly concave, the latter distinctly convex, the apex somewhat flattened.
Postpetiole hardly more than half as long as the petiole, but half again as broad, with prominent, rounded anterior angles and convex node.
Head subopaque, longitudinally reticulate rugose, mandibles and frontal area smooth, clypeus with several longitudinal rugse, which are so delicate as to leave the surface shining.
Thorax subopaque, irregularly reticulate rugose, especially on the pronotum and epinotum, the neck and pleurae still more delicately reticulate.
Petiole and postpetiole subopaque, delicately reticulate rugose.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs on the head and trunk whitish, rigid and obtuse, but hardly clavate, longest and most conspicuous on the aljdomen.
Antenna and legs clothed with delicate, appressed, whitish hairs.
Color yellow, whole head, except the mandibles, dark -brown.
There is a large brown blotch on the pronotum and one on the epinotum.
Nodes of petiole and postpetiole, trochanters, swollen portions of the femora, club of antennae and the dorsal surface of the gaster distinctly infuscated.
Type locality: Boulder, Colo.
Described from a dozen specimens received from Rev.
P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B.
This variety appears to be identical with the form mentioned by Emery from Hill City, S. Dak.
(Pergande).
It differs from specimens of the typical European miiscorum, sent me by Prof. Forel from the Schluderbach, Switzerland, in the following points: Hairs on the trunk distinctly shorter and at least on the head, thorax and pedicel distinctly thicker.
Dorsal portions of thorax and pedicel and the thickened portions of the femora infuscated.
These characters are constant in the twelve Colorado specimens.
3.
Lepto thorax acervorum Mayr, subs, canadensis Provancher.
L. canadensis Provancher.
Addit.
Faun.
Canada, Hynienopt., 1SS7, p 245.
§$c?.
L. acervorum var.
canadensis Er.
Andre, Rev.
d'EntomoL, A I, 1887, p. 295.
^ .
L. acervorum var.
canadensis Dalla Torre, Catal.
Hvmenopt., VII, 1893, p. 123.
L. canadensis Emerv, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Svst., VIII.
1894, pp.
317, 318, 319.
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
4).
— Length 2.75-3.5 mm.
Minute ocelli occasionally present.
Cl3^peus with a distinct longitudinal impression in the middle, its anterior border rather convex and 15 rounded.
Anteniije 1 1-jointed ; scape reaching midway between the eye and the posterior angle of the head; first funicular joint not longer than joints 2-3 together; terminal joint distinctly longer than the two preceding joints of the club.
Thorax long, subcylindrical, somewhat narrowed behind, dorsally flattened, its anterior angles rounded; promesonotal and mesoepinotal sutures both distinct, a slight but distinct constriction at the latter.
Epinotal spines rather short and blunt, compressed, in many specimens tooth-like and hardly longer than broad at the base, directed backward in a line with the dorsal surface of the epinotum, in no case longer than their distance apart at the base.
Petiole from above oblong, not more than H times as long as broad, the node in profile with evenly concave anterior and somewhat depressed but convex posterior slope.
Postpetiole trapezoidal, distinctly broader than long, its anterior angles prominent, anterior border distinctly broader than the posterior, dorsal surface hemispherical in profile.
Mandibles shining, coarsely punctate.
iMedian impressed surface of clypeus smooth and shining, lateral surfaces longitudinally rugose.
Head opaque, longitudinally reticulate rugose, the rugse being most distinctly longitudinal on the front, vertex and cheeks.
Thorax opaque, covered wdth reticulate rugae w^hich have a decidedly longitudinal trend on the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the pronotum and on the dorsal surface of the epinotum and the mesopleurce.
On the mesonotum the reticulation resolves itself into an area of even, close-set foveolse.
Pedicel opaque, the petiole sculptured like the mesonotum, the postpetiole somewhat smoother and almost punctate.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs whitish; those on the head, thorax and pedicel short, rigid and subclavate, on the gaster longer and thinner; on the antennse and legs dehcate, appressed.
Color dark-brown, almost black; small joints of the funiculus, the metatarsi, bases of femora, trochanters, ventral surface of pedicel, and in many specimens also the sutural regions of the thorax, yellow or pale-brown.
In some specimens (immature?)
nearly the whole thorax and the whole of the tibiae are yellow.
Female (dealated).
— Length 3.75-4 mm.
Apart from the distinctively sexual characters, the female differs from the worker in the following characters : The reticulate rugosity of the head is more decidedly longitudinal, the rugae running back regularly to the occiput without deviation at the ocellar region.
Mesonotum, scutellum and pleurte traversed by distinct longitudinal rugae.
the first somewhat shining in the middle near its anterior border and in the regions of the parapsidal furrows.
On the epinotum, about the bases of the spines, the rugse become very coarse and reticulate.
Epinotal spines short and blunt, resembhng those of the worker in shape and direction.
Petiolar node pointed, with rather flat anterior and posterior slopes, coarsely reticulate rugose.
Sculpture of postpetiole less pronounced than that of the petiole, but coarser than the petiole of the worker.
Pilosity short, like that of the worker, but the hairs on the head, thorax and pedicel are less clavate.
Head, thorax, abdomen, femora and antennal club, black, remaining portions of the legs and the funicle, brown.
Type locality : "Canada."
Additional locahties: Elk county.
Pa. (Bradley); Olympia, Wash. (Kincaid).
This form should, I believe, be regarded as belonging to the same species as the European acervorum, as suggested by Andre.
As Emery claimed, however, it deserves to rank as a subspecies, and not as a variety.
The workers differ from the European specimens of acervorum in my collection (from Switzerland (Forel) and Scotland (Dughch)) in the shorter epinotal spines, the much deeper coloration of the thorax, pedicel and legs, the shorter and more clavate hairs on the trunk and the minute, appressed, instead of suberect hairs on the antennal scapes and legs.
My specimens of the North American form average nearly as large as the European.
This subspecies is certainly rare in the Eastern States, but seems to be very common in Washington, to judge from the number of different nests sent me from that state by Prof. Kincaid.
This is probably significant in connection with the palearctic distribution of acervorum.
The habits of the American subspecies are unknowTi.
They probably resemble those of the European form, which lives in small colonies under bark, in moss, etc.
3a.
Var.
yankee Emery.
L. canadensis Prov.
var.
yankee, Zool.
Jahrb., VIII, '94, p. 319. ?
9 .
The worker (fig.
5) differs from the worker of canadensis typ.
in lighter coloration and in having somewhat longer epinotal spines.
Head dark-brown, gaster somewhat paler; mouth, thorax, pedicel and legs reddish; antennal club, thoracic dorsum and femora usually infuscated.
Sculpture finer and less rugose than in canadensis.
In the female the thorax is dark-brown, the sculpture more pronounced.
Type localities: South Dakota, Utah, Colorado.
Several workers sent me by Rev.
P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B., from Boulder, Colo., agree very well with Emery's description.
3b.
Var.
convivialis var.
nov.
Length of worker 2-2.5 mm.
; of female 3 mm.
Differs from the typical canadensis and the preceding variety, in its small size and very deep coloration.
Head, thorax, abdomen, femora and tibiae black, neck, ventral portions of pedicel, funiculus, trochanters, knees and tarsi red or yellow.
Epinotal spines short and blunt.
Sculpturing of body as rough as that of the typical canadensis.
Color of the female deeper than that of the worker, the shining region of the mesonotum is more extensive than in the female of canadensis, and there is a large sliining area devoid of sculpture in the middle of the scutellum.
Type locality : Milwaukee, Wis. Additional localities: Colebrook, Conn.; top of Las Vegas Range (11,000 feet), N. M. (T. D. A. Cockerell) ; Beulah, N. M. (F. W. P. Cockerell).
This variety seems to have a pronounced tendency to symbiosis with other species of Myrmicidae.
The Milwaukee specimens were found living in the bark of a stump in xenobiosis with Cremastogaster lineolata Say.
Those from the top of the Las Vegas Range were taken by Prof. Cockerell in a nest of Myrmica brevinodis.
The Connecticut specimens appeared to be living in plesiobiosis with For7nica rufa subsp.
difjicilis Emery.
3c.
Var.
Kincaidi Pergande.
L. Yankee Emery var.
Kincaidi Pergande, Proceed.
Wash. Acad.
Sci.,Vol.
II, December 20, 1900, pp.
520, 521.
^ $ .
"Female.
— Length about 4 mm.
"Head and thorax black, the abdomen dark-brown, with the posterior edge of the segments brownish-yellow; antennae, mandibles and legs yellowish-red, the neck and paler parts of the nodes of a darker red; the fiagellum grows gradually darker toward the end, with the last joint black; femora dark-brown, their base and apex yellowish-red; teeth of mandibles black.
Head finely striated, the striae most distinct in front of the eyes and between the frontal carinae; the posterior half of the head is finely and rather densely rugose or reticulate, the clypeus is almost smooth and the mandibles striato-punctate ; pronotum and mesonotum quite coarsely rugose, the metanotum, scutellum and upper surface of nodes finely, though rather indistinctly, striated; declivity of the metathorax transversely striated.
Abdomen smooth.
Erect hairs short, truncate and pale-yellowish, those of the nodes and abdomen longest; there are also a few much finer, erect .
hairs on the femora.
"The female resembles somewhat that of L. yankee, which, however, is somewhat smaller, the last antennal joint and metanotal spines shorter, the hairs of the abdomen much finer and the erect hairs of the femora wanting.
"Worker.
— Length about 3 mm.
"Head and teeth of mandibles black, the abdomen dark-brown; antennae, mandibles, thorax, legs and nodes reddish-yellow; coloration of the last three or four joints of the antennae and the femora as in the female, the upper surface of the thorax and nodes more or less decidedly reddish-brown, Striation of the head more distinct than in the female, and the space between the striae more or less distinctly reticulated, particularly so toward the sides.
Pronotum and mesonotum and the nodes finely rugose; sculpturing of the metanotum slightly coarser.
Abdomen smooth; all the hairs similar to those of the female.
"The worker is very similar in appearance to those of L. yankee, though somewhat larger, more robust, the sculpturing coarser and the hairs stouter."
Type locality: Metlakahtla, Alaska (June).
Cat.
No.
5,278 U. S. National Museimi.
Described from one female and twelve workers.
4.
Leptothorax Provancheri Emery.
Myrmica tuberum Provancher, Natur.
Canad., V, 12, 1881, p. 3592.
Faune Entom.
Canad., Hymenopt., 1883, p. 602. ?
.
Leptothorax Provancheri Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, pp.
317 and 320. ?
.
Worker.
— Length 2.75 mm.
Body robust.
Antennae U-jointed.
Thorax stout, impressed at the mesoepinotal suture.
Epinotal spines short, tooth-like, resembling those of L. canadensis var.
yankee.
Petiole with subparallel sides, node angulate above.
Postpetiole about half again as^ broad as the petiole, transversely elliptical.
Opaque, rugose-punctate; sculpturing like that of acervorum, the rugae on the head less numerous, forming wide meshes.
Postpetiole very smooth and shining, with a few piligerous punctures, but otherwise impunctate.
Gaster smooth and shining, with short longitudinal striae at its extreme base.
Hairs rather long, clavate, both on the body and on the tibiae.
Testaceous, crown of head infuscated.
Type locality: "Canada" (Provancher).
Redescribed by Emery from a single specimen, Provancher's original description being inadequate for the identification of the species.
5.
Leptothorax Emersoni Wheeler.
L. Emersoni Wheeler, Am.
Natural., XXXV, 1901, pp.
433-436.
5(j^$ .
Worher (PL XII, fig.
6).— Length 2.5-3.3 mm.
Head rather convex above, exchiding the mandibles not much longer than broad, sides rounded, posterior margin very faintly excised in the middle.
Eyes rather large, convex, in the middle of the lateral surface of the head.
Ocelli often present.
Clypeus large, convex, broadly rounded in front.
Mandibles 6-toothed.
Antennae 1 1-jointed, scape reaching nearly to the posterior angle of the head; first funicular joint but little longer than the second and third joints together ; terminal joint not quite as long as joints 7-9 of the funiculus.
Thorax rather long, rounded in front, narrowed behind, with distinct promesonotal and mesoepinotal sutures, the thorax distinctly constricted at the latter.
Epinotal spines short, blunt, compressed, hardly longer than broad at their bases, directed somewhat upward and backward, their distance apart at the base greater than their length.
Petiole from above oblong, 1^ tnnes as long as broad, sides slightly convex just in front of the middle ; in profile the node is pointed, with distinctly concave anterior and posterior slopes.
In some specimens, however, the posterior slope is straight or even somewhat convex.
Ventral portion compressed, produced forward as a blunt projection.
Postpetiole campanulate, wdth evenly convex dorsal surface; seen from above it is nearly twice as broad as the petiole, its anterior portion evenly rounded, not angulate.
Gaster rather large, of the usual shape, without distinct anterior angles.
Head opaque.
Mandibles coarsely punctate.
Clypeus smooth in the middle, with a few longitudinal ruga on either side.
Head traversed by coarse longitudinal and occasionally anastomosing rugse; interrugal spaces coarsely and more or less confluently foveolatepunctate.
Around the eyes the rugse become more reticulate, though they still have a distinctly longitudinal trend on the cheeks and lower surface of the head.
Thorax opaque, its dorsal surface reseml^ling the head in sculpture, except that the rugse are more reticulate and without longitudinal trend.
On the pleurse the rugse become indistinct and are replaced by even and closely aggregated foveolse.
Petiole opaque, sculptured like the pleurse.
Postpetiole smooth and shining above, delicately reticulate under a high magnification, especially on the sides.
Gaster very glabrous and shining.
Whole body, including the legs and antennae, abundantly beset with rather long, suberect, whitish hairs, which on the trunk are obtuse but by no means clavate.
Hairs on the gaster longest and most regularly arranged.
Yellow or reddish-yellow, dorsal surface of head, terminal half of funiculus and the gaster, with the exception of the anterior, lateral and posterior borders of the segments, both on the dorsal and ventral surfaces, black or dark-brown.
Female.
— Length 2.5-3.5 mm.
Like the worker.
Thoracic dorsum dark-brown, rather shining; mesonotum and scutellum traversed by distinct, rather widely separated, longitudinal rugoe; pronotum and epinotum coarsely reticulate rugose, the rugae of the latter being continued up onto the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the stout, blunt spines.
Pleurae subopaque, coarsely reticulate rugose, the meshes being occupied by aggregated shallow foveolae.
Node of petiole somewhat more acute than that of the worker.
Wings grayish hyaline, veins and stigma dirty yellowish.
Male.
— Length 2.5-3 mm.
Mandibles very small, not distinctly dentate and far from meeting each other with their blades.
Antennae 12-jointed; scape hardly as long as the three first joints of the funiculus together, first funicular joint very short, the others cylindrical, of uniform thickness but increasing graduallv in length toward the tip.
Parapsidal and other thoracic sutures very distinct.
Epinotum with two very short rugose projections in the place of the spines.
Petiolar node low, rounded, its anterior slope slightly concave, its posterior slope shorter and convex.
Postpetiole hemispherical.
Gaster somewhat less flattened and narrower than in the worker.
Mandibles striated.
Clypeus even in the middle with a few delicate longitudinal rugae.
Head above longitudinally reticulate rugose; rugae radiating backward and laterallj^ from the posterior ocelli as centers.
Thorax rather smooth, indistinctly punctate.
Pedicel and gaster glabrous.
Hairs almost completely absent on the head and thorax, short and inconspicuous on the legs, long on the pedicel and gaster, but nowhere truncated at their tips.
Brownish-yellow like the worker.
Head, thoracic dorsum, pedicel and gaster, and the middle portions of the femora and tibiae somewhat darker.
Wings as in the female.
Type locality: Colebrook, Litchfield county.
Conn.
Males and females appearing in August.
This species always lives in xenobiosis with a larger Myrmicine ant (Mijrmica hrevinodis Emer}^ in the hummocks of moss {Polytrichum commune), under stones, bits of wood, etc., in rather damp, grassy bogs.
The Leptothorax occupy separate nests, which, however, commuiiicate by means of narrow passages with the galleries and chambers of the Myrinica.
They obtain their food by licking the surfaces of the Myrmica and by regurgitation.
All sorts of transitional forms occur between the Avorkers and queens (ergatoids and macroergates with from one to three ocelli).
6.
Leptothorax Schaumi Roger.
L. Schaumi Roger, Berl.
Ent.
Zeitschr., VII, 1863, p. 180, No.
70.
^ .
L. Schaumi Mayr, Verb.
Zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, XXXVI, 1886, p. 451.
O'.
L. Schaumii Dalla Torre, Catalog Hvmenopt., VII, 1893, p. 127.
L. Schaumi Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, p. 320.
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
7).
— Length 2.5-2.75 mm, Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus convex without median impression; its anterior border rather straight.
Antennae 11-jointed; scape reaching hardly to half way between the eye and the posterior angle of the head, funiculus with a distinctly 3-jointed club; first funicular joint almost as long as joints 2-5 together; joints 2-7 distinctly broader than long; terminal joint fully as long as the two preceding joints.
Thorax rather short, flattened dorsally and laterally, broader in front than behind, with distinct and rather sharp humeral angles, and with a constriction at the mesoepinotal suture.
Epinotal spines very short, dentiform, not longer than l3road at their bases.
Petiole seen from above oblong, Ih times as long as broad, its sides parallel except at the peduncle which is narrower; in profile the anterior dorsal slope is concave and about the same length as the straight or somewhat convex posterior slope ; ventral surface with a distinct tooth directed forward.
Postpetiole scarcely half again as broad as the petiole, distinctly broader than long, oblong, with distinct though rounded anterior angles.
Its dorsal surface is evenly semicircular in profile.
Gaster of the usual shape, with small but distinct anterior angles.
Clypeus with sharp longitudinal rugse, two of which, near the middle, are more prominent than the others.
]\Iandibles with distinct longitudinal rugse.
Head, clypeus and mandibles with a silky luster, the first traversed bj^ fine parallel rugse separated by rows of foveolate punctures, which are clearest in certain lights on the posterior lateral surfaces and cheeks.
Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, covered uniformly with foveolate punctures.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs moderately numerous on the bod}^, white, erect, clavate; short on the head and thorax, much longer on the gaster and of intermediate length on the pedicel.
Hairs on the antennae and legs minute, non-clavate, appressed.
Yellowish-red, the edges of the mandibles black.
Gaster in some specimens dark-ljrown throughout, in others yellow or with much of the base of the first segment yellow.
Antennae and legs yellow, club and sometimes also the scape of the former, infuscated.
Male.
— Length 3.2 mm.
Mandibles dentate, touching each other with their blades.
Antennae 12-jointed, scape about as long as the first three joints of the funiculus together; funiculus from the second joint to the end of uniform thickness, filiform; second joint a little shorter than the third, shorter, in fact, than anj^ of the succeeding joints.
Instead of spines or teeth, the epinotum bears two indistinct elongate swellings.
Radial cell of wings short and closed.
Mandibles rather smooth and shining, with scattered punctures near their inner edges.
Clypeus moderately shining and very delicately longitudinally rugose.
Cheeks and region between antennal insertions and eyes sharply striated longitudinally; front with delicate longitudinal rugae; vertex finely reticulate punctate.
Thorax rather smooth and shining, median and posterior portions of mesonotum finely longitudinally rugose and in part obliquely.
Petiole, postpetiole and gaster smooth and shining.
Pilosity sparse, tibiae without suberect hairs.
Blackish-brown, pedicel and gaster darker.
Mandibles, antennae except the brown scape, joints of legs, tarsi, and in part also the joints of the pedicel, yellow or reddish-yellow.
Wings clear, hyaline.
Type locality: "Pennsylvania" (Schaum).
Additional localities: District of Columbia (Pergande); Beatty, Pa. (Schmitt); Westville, N. J.
(Schmitt) ; Austin, Tex.
In the locality last mentioned I have occasionally taken the workers of L. Schaumi running on the bark of large willows (Salix nigra).
7.
Leptothorax fortinodis Mayr.
L. fortinodis Mayr, Ver.
Zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, XXXVI, 1886, pp.
451, 452. ?
?.
L. fortinodis Dalla Torre, Catalog.
Hymenopt., "\ II, 1893, p. 124.
L. fortinodis Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, pp.
318, 321.
Worker (PL XII, fig.
S).— Length 2.5-3 mm.
Head somewhat longer than broad, sides subparallel, occipital border nearly straight.
Eyes moderately large and convex.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus convex, its anterior border broad and rounded.
Antennae 11-jointed; scape reaching to midway between the eye and the posterior angle of the head; funiculus terminating in a 3-jointed club; first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together; joints 2-5 broader than long, 6 and 7 as long as broad; terminal joint somewhat longer than the two preceding joints of the club.
Thorax moderately long, its dorsal and pleural surfaces flattened; humeral angles prominent and rather sharp; no constriction between the mesoand epinotum.
Epinotal spines very short, not longer than broad at their bases, turned upward.
Pedicel rather robust; petiole oblong Avhen seen from above, almost twice as long as broad ; sides of the nodal portion nearly parallel, peduncle narrower; in profile the anterior slope is distinctly concave, the posterior strongly convex, the apex of the node rounded; anterior ventral surface with a prominent tooth, directed forward and downward.
Postpetiole but little broader than the petiole; nearly as long as broad, subglobose, strongly arched dorsally, its anterior about as broad as its posterior border, the anterior angles rounded, hardly distinct.
Gaster of the usual configuration, with small but prominent basal angles.
Legs robust.
Mandibles and clypeus longitudinally rugose, the former finely and indistinctly, the latter more coarsely and distinctly.
Head opaque, except the crown and occiput which are more or less shining or lustrous, covered with foveolate punctures, in addition to which the front and crown are finely longitudinally rugose, the cheeks and sides reticulate-rugose, the lower surface more indistinctly reticulate.
Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, or slightly lustrous, densely and evenly foveolate-punctate.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs on the body yellowish-white; erect and clavate on the head, thorax and abdomen; longest on the gaster; on the antennae and legs the hairs are minute, tapering and appressed.
Head, thorax and pedicel deep reddish-brown, gaster almost or ciuite black; mandibles, antennae and legs red, club of antennae and often also the femora infuscated.
Female (dealated).
— Length 3.5—1 nun.
Like the worker in coloration, except that the anterior and lateral portion of the mesonotum, the epinotum and dorsal surfaces of the petiolar and postpetiolar nodes may be distinctly infuscated.
Whole upper surface of head longitudinally rugose, the rugae diverging to the corners of the head in the postocellar region.
Mesonotum and scutellum traversed by numerous parallel longitudinal rugae, which are finer than those on the head ; pronotum finely reticulate, median portion of scutellum smooth and shining; pleurae reticulate-punctate, rather rough, the rugae somewhat longitudinal in direction.
Epinotal spines very small and tooth-like, rather blunt ; the region between and below them densely foveolate-punccate.
Petiole with less convex anterior slope to the node; postpetiole relatively shorter and broader than in the worker.
Type locality: Maryland.
Additional locality: Austin, Tex.
The specimens from Austin have the head, thorax and pedicel decidedly paler in color than a type specimen received from Dr. Mayr and three topotypes given me by Mr. Pergande ; the petiole is relatively smaller and there is a clavate hair at the base of each epinotal spine as in Schaumi.
This hair is lacking in my t^'pes of fortinodis, possibly because these are much rubbed.
I have found only a single colony of this form at Austin.
This had taken up its abode in an abandoned gall of Holcaspis cinerosus Basset on the live-oak {Quercus virginiana).
It contained 143 workers, a single dealated queen and 35 larvae in different stages.
The latter were white and not greenish like the larvae of L. obturator which inhabits the same kind of galls.
The entrance to the fortinodis nest was a small round hole with much worn edges, evidently the modified exit of some parasite on the Holcaspis.
.'A.
7a.
Var.
melanoticus var.
nov. Worker.
— Length 2-2.5 mm.
This form is decidedly smaller and much deeper in color than the typical fortinodis.
Whole body black, petiole and postpetiole brownish behind and below; mandibles, joints of legs, tarsi and funiculus brown.
Epinotal spines very short and blunt in some specimens, in others acute and longer, recalling the conditions described by Mayr for a small variety of fortinodis from the District of Columbia.
Female (dealated).
— Length 2.9-3 mm.
Decidedly smaller than the typical form, head and thorax as well as the pedicel and gaster black ; the ventral surface of the petiole and postpetiole reddish.
Legs dark-brown or black ; coxae, knees, tarsi and basal portion of funiculus somewhat paler.
Type locality: Rockford, 111.
The workers of this apparently somewhat depauperate form are sometimes seen running on the bark of large prostrate oak logs in the woods.
They inhabit small flat chambers only ^ to f inch in diameter excavated in the thick corky bark.
Each nest contains a single dealated queen and a comparatively small number of workers (about 25 to 40).
n. Var.
gilvus var.
nov. Worker.
— Length 2.25 mm.
Differs from the typical fortinodis in the color, which is throughout a clear yellow, and in the sculpturing of the head, which is smooth and shining except on the sides, where it is more opaque and reticulate.
The vertex is traversed by a few rather widely separated rugse.
Female (dealated).
— Length 4 mm.
Differs like the worker in coloration.
The whole body is yellow, except the wing insertions, which are black.
Type locality : Austin, Tex.
This variety is based on a single dealated queen which was found accompanied by seven workers and a few larvae in a small Holcaspis cinerosus gall on a hve-oak tree.
These evidently constituted an incipient colony, remarkable because the queen and two workers were pure yellow, while the five remaining workers were dark-brown with black gasters, like the workers of the typical fortinodis.
All the workers, however, had the peculiar smoothness of the head and were undoubtedly the offspring of the same mother.
I believe this colony mvist present a case of hybridism, a female of the new variety gilva having been fertilized by a male of the typical fortinodis.
It is difficult to explain the peculiar dichromatism of the workers in this little colony in any other way, since the yellow workers were not callows but perfectly mature, and the queen differed so decidedly in color from the majority of her offspring.
Unfortunately the colony was killed by dropping the gall into alcohol before the peculiarities of the workers were noticed.
The Austin specimens of fortinodis, together with those representing the varieties melanoticus and gilvus, all have the petiole much smaller than in Mayr's type and suggest transitions to Schaumi.
Particularly is this the case with var.
gilvus, which is based on the female.
The female of Schaumi and the males of both species being unknown, I am unable to dehmit the two species accurately.
8.
Leptothorax longispinosus Roger.
L. longispinosus Roger, Berl.
Ent.
Zeitschr., VII, 1863, p. ISO, No.
69.
^ .
L. longispinosus ]Mayr, Verb.
Zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, XXXVI, 1886, p. 451.
5 • L. longispinosus Dalla Torre, Catalog.
Hymenopt., VII, 1893, p. 125.
L. longispinosus Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f .
Syst., VIII.
1894. p. 321.
^ $ .
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
9).— Length 2.2.5-2.5 mm.
Head exclusive of the mandibles not much longer than broad, posterior angles considerably rounded.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Eyes of moderate size, rather flattened, Clypeus convex, not impressed in the middle, its anterior border rounded.
Antennse 11-jointed, scape reacliing the posterior angle of the head, club 3-jointed; first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together; joints 1-3 broader than, long; joints 4-6 as long as broad; terminal joint as long as the two preceding joints together.
Thorax rather short, anterior angles rounded but distinct, dorsal surface and pleurae somewhat flattened; mesoepinotal suture distinct but without a constriction.
Epinotal spines very long and stout, directed backward, rather suddenly tapering at their tips which are curved slightly inward and downward.
Petiole from above suboblong, twice as long as broad, sides nearly parallel, posterior border a little broader than the anterior ; in profile the anterior slope is distinctly and evenly concave, the posterior convex; the anterior ventral surface has a distinct but rather blunt tooth; summit of node blunt.
Postpetiole hardl}^ half again as broad as the petiole, as long as broad, with rounded but distinct anterior angles, convex dorsally.
Gaster of the usual shape, with distinct anterior angles.
Mandibles coarsely longitudinally rugose, hardly shining.
Clypeus somewhat shining, traversed even in the middle by several clean-cut longitudinal rugse.
Head shining, especially on the posterior and postero-lateral portions; anteriorly with clean-cut longitudinal rugse, which are coarsely reticulate and further apart on the cheeks, more delicate on the crown and occiput.
Thorax opaque, except the mesonotum, which is somewhat shining.
Neck coarsely and evenly punctate; remaining surface of thorax covered with coarse, irregularly longitudinal rugse w^hich extend up on the epinotal spines; interrugal spaces with shallow foveolate punctures, forming a secondary reticulation.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque, coarsely rugose and punctate.
Gaster very smooth and shining.
Hairs silverywliite, those on the head, thorax and abdomen very regularly arranged, clavate, erect; on the antennse and legs minute, nonclavate and appressed.
Head and gaster black; thorax and pedicel dark-brown; antennse and legs yellow ; scape and club of the former, coxse, femora and sometimes also the tibise of the latter, infuscated.
Mandibles dark-brown, their distal haK yellow.
Female.
— Length 3.5-4 mm.
Head opaque, densely and rather finely longitudinally rugose.
Eyes moderate; ocelli rather small.
Thorax opaque; pronotum coarsely longitudinally rugose ; mesonotum traversed by numerous very regular, parallel rugse.
ScuteUum somewhat shining, covered with much more delicate rugse than those of the mesonotiun and more reticulate and less longitudinal in direction.
Pleurse, epinotum and epinotal spines covered with coarse reticulate rugse, which have a decidedly longitudinal trend.
Epinotal spines shorter, stouter and less curved than those of the worker.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque and more roughly sculptured than those of the worker.
Wings milky-white, the veins and stigma very pale.
Pilosity and color of body, legs and antennse like the worker, except that the thorax is darker and often quite black, especially on the dorsal surface.
Male.
— Length 2-2.5 mm.
Head, exclusive of the mandibles, about as broad as long.
Eyes very prominent ; ocelli reniform.
Mandibles overlapping, small, acute, dentate.
Antenna 12-jointed; scape as long as joints 1-4 of the funiculus, the funiculus with a 4-jointed club; first funicular joint swollen, somewhat longer than joints 2-3 together; joints 3-7 cylindrical, about twice as long as broad, joints of club fusiform gradually increasing in length distally.
Thorax with strongly marked parapsidal and Mayrian furrows.
Epinotum evenly rounded, with two small prominences in the place of the large spines of the worker and queen.
Petiole larger and postpetiole more slender than in the worker and both with much lower nodes, the former somewhat pedunculate, the latter subquadrate from above, with rounded angles, as long as broad and hardl}^ half again as broad as the petiole.
Gaster of the usual shape.
Legs rather long and slender.
Clypeus shining, with a few clean-cut, longitudinal rugse.
Head subopaque, indistinctly rugose and punctate except the cheeks, where the rug£e are pronounced and reticulate.
Thorax smooth; pleurse, mesonotum and scutellum shining, their surfaces indistinctly and irregularly punctate at the sutures.
Epinotum opaque, very finely rugose.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque, finely rugose; the upper surfaces of the nodes, especially of the postpetiole, smooth and almost shining.
Gaster subopaque.
Hairs on the body few and very slender, whitish; longest on the gaster; those on the legs and antennae minute and appressed.
Black; mandibles, antennae, legs and genitalia white.
Bases of mandibles, scape, antennal club, coxse, femora, tibise and last tarsal joint of each foot, distinctly infuscated.
Wings milky-white with very pale veins and stigma.
Type locality : "America."
Additional localities: Virginia (Mayr); District of Columbia (Pergande) ; New York (Schmelter) ; Colebrook, Litchfield county, Conn.
This species is evidently allied to L. curvispinosus, but is readily distinguished by its dark coloration, strong epinotal spines, shining head, etc.
The specimens from which the above description was drawn may be considerably darker than Rogers' types.
In most of my material the thorax of the worker is black, and the head rather smooth so as to resemble the forms described by Emery from New York and by Mayr from Virginia.
L. longispinosus appears to he confined to the Eastern United States.
At any rate I have not yet been able to find it in the ]\Iiddle West or among my material from the Western States.
At Colebrook, Conn., the workers of this species are often seen running over the leaves or bushes in rather damp, shady places.
The nests, containing the winged females and males in August, were found in clefts of granite boulders and in worm-eaten hickory nuts on the ground under the trees in the woods.
Some of the colonies were quite populous for Lcptothorax colonies, others very small.
9.
Leptothorax curvispinosus Mayr.
L. curvispinosus Mayr, Sitz.
B. k. Akad.
Wiss.
Wien, LIII, 1866, p. 508.
^ .
Stenamma gallarum Patton, Am.
Natural., 1879, p. 126.
^ 9 .
L. curvispinosus Mayr, Verhand.
zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, XXXVI, 1886, pp.
451 and 453.
'$ .
L. curvispinosus Dalla Torre, Catalog.
Hymenopt., VII, 1893, p. 124.
L. curvispinosus Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, pp.
317 and 320.
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
10).— Length 2-2.5 mm.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus moderately convex, with broadly rounded anterior border, without median impression.
Antennae 11-jointed, scape reaching to midway between the eye and the posterior corner of the head; funiculus terminating in a distinct 3-jointed club; first funicular joint nearly as long as the three succeeding joints together; joints 2-7 about as long as wide; terminal joint little longer than the two preceding joints of the club taken together.
Thorax but little broader in front above than below and behind; humeri shghtly angular; dorsum convex, without promesonotal and mesoepinotal sutures and without a constriction at the latter region.
Epinotal spines long and slender, tapering rather rapidly at their tips; directed backward and slightly upward, their tips incurved and slightly converging.
Petiole from above more than twice as long as broad, distinctly narrower at the anterior peduncular end than behind; node in profile rather blunt, with longer and slightly concave anterior slope and convex posterior slope; lower surface laterally compressed, with a small but distinct downwardly directed tooth near the anterior end.
Postpetiole globose, about half again as broad as the petiole, almost circular when seen from above.
Gaster short, elliptical, with small but distinct basal angles.
Mandibles shining, with indistinct longitudinal strise.
Clypeus longitudinally rugose, even in the middle.
Head opaque, covered with fine longitudinal rugne separated b}^ densely foveolate punctures.
Thorax opaque, coarsely and irregularly longitudinally rugose, except just back of the neck where there are a few transverse rug£e.
The rugse on different parts of the thorax are so fine that their trend is hardly discernible except under a high magnification.
Lower pleurae foveolate-punctate.
Petiole and postpetiole somewhat less roughly sculptured than the head and thorax; both densely foveolate-punctate; punctures on the petiole somewhat coarser than on the postpetiole, which therefore often appears smoother.
Gaster and legs smooth and shining.
Hairs whitish, those on the head, thorax and pedicel shorter and more clavate than those on the gaster.
Hairs on the legs and antennae short, non-clavate and appressed.
Yellow; head, thorax and gaster tinged with l^rown; mandibles, legs, antennse and venter pale, sometimes whitish; edges of mandibles and a large triangular spot on either side of the first gastric segment, black or dark-brown.
In some specimens the femora are slightly infuscated.
Female (dealated).
— Length 2.75-3.3 mm.
Longitudinal rugse of the head more prominent than in the worker.
Pronotum coarsely reticulate-rugose.
Mesonotum shining, especially in front and in the parapsidal regions, longitudinally rugose, as are also the paraptera and scutellum.
Epinotum with coarse, transverse rugse, especially below the spines, which are shorter and stouter than in the worker.
Pleurae and sterna coarsely longitudinally rugose.
Sculpturing of the petiole and postpetiole like that of the worker but more pronounced, so that these segments are quite opaque.
Upper surface of head, scutellum, posterior portion of epinotum, wing-insertions, lower pleurae, posterior portions of petiole and postpetiole, a broad band across the first gastric segment and all except the borders of the posterior gastric segments, dark-brown or black.
Type locality : ?
District of Columbia.
Additional localities: Virginia (Mayr) ; Beatty, Pa. (Schmitt) : Belmont, N. C. (Schmitt) ; Covington, Ky. (Schmitt) ; New York (Emery) ; New Jersey (Emery).
This species in its typical form appears to be confined to the Eastern ITnited States.
Patton found small colonies of it nesting in the hollow galls on the golden-rod (Soliclago).
Rev.
P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B., who has frequently taken the species in Pennsylvania, sends me the following note on its habits: ''In one locality at least where curvispinosus was abundant the colonies were in saplings of ash, the tops of which had been eaten off b}' cattle and hollowed out, perhaps by some larger insect than Leptothorax.
At all events, when I visited these colonies in autumn (I knew of their existence by watching foraging workers going in and out of the nests) every colony had been dislodged and dispossessed of its premises by a species of wasp which was busily bringing in paralyzed spiders.
The L. curvispinosus had then retired to hollows in stumps or logs or dead branches lying on the ground."
This species is also of interest because it is enslaved by Tomognathus americanus Emery, in the nests of which it has l^een found b}^ Pergande.
9a.
Subsp.
ambiguus Emery (I'l.
XII, fig.
U).
L. curvispinosus Mavr subsp.
ambiguus Emory, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, p. 320^.
Differs from the t3'pical curvispinosus in the somewhat coarser sculpturing and the decidedly shorter and nearly straight epinotal spines.
Type locahties: Hillbity, S. Dak.
(Pergande) ; Cleveland, O.
(Wasmann); New York (Schmelter).
A number of specimens collected at Colebrook, Conn., have the same sculpturing as the typical curvispinosus but decidedly shorter epinotal spines.
These were found running on the surfaces of leaves in the shade of very damp woods.
I failed to discover the nests.
9b.
Subsp.
rugatulus Emery (PI.
XII, fig.
12).
L. rugatulus Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., YIII, 1894, p. 321.
Owing to the existence of the next subspecies (anncctcns) , I feel justified in regarding Emery's L. rugatulus merely as a subspecies of curvispinosus.
The type specimens were from South Dakota (Pergande) and Colorado (Pergande).
Specimens from Seattle, Wash. (Kincaid), in my collection agree very closely with Emery's description.
They differ from the typical curvispinosus in the following characters : The rugse of the head and thorax are decidedly coarser, and longitudinal on the latter.
Epinotal spines much shorter and hardly curved.
Tooth on the anterior ventral surface of the petiole distinctly larger, blunter and directed downward and forward.
Postpetiole broader than long, oblong when seen from above, with rather distinct anterior angles.
In profile the upper surface of the postpetiole is almost angular, its ventral surface very short.
Upper surface of head and gaster, with the exception of the posterior edges of the segments of thejatter, dark-brown.
Femora more or less infuscated in some specimens.
9c.
Var.
Cockerelli var.
nov. Worker.
— Length 2-2.5 mm.
Differs from the typical rugatulus in having the head, thorax~and 16 patiole less opaque, owing to the rugiB being further apart and the smooth interrugal spaces more prominent.
Epinotal spines shorter and more acute.
Postpetiole somewhat longer, being intermediate in shape between that of the typical curvispinosus and rugatulus, but distinctly wider in front than behind, and with rounded but perceptible anterior angles.
The coloration is also intermediate between the forms just mentioned.
Upper surface of head pale-brown and more of the cheeks, sides and front of head yellow than in rugatulus, whereas the infuscation of the gaster is limited to the posterior dorsal half or two-thirds of the first segment, leaving the remaining segments yellow.
Female (dealated).
— Length 3-3.5 mm.
Whole body, with the exception of the legs and antennae, yello\^^shbrown; head and gaster, with the exception of the base of its first segment, darker.
Antennae and legs more yellowish.
Pedicel, especially the petiole, very rough, and surmounted by a more acute node than in the worker.
A fine living colony of this species, comprising more than a hundred workers and eight females, was sent me by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell from Las Vegas Hot Springs, N. ^I.
Fragments of bark accompanying the ants showed that the nest was found in a tree trunk.
9d.
Subsp.
annectens subsp.
nov. (PI.
XII, fig.
13).
Worker.
— Length 2-2.5 mm.
This form has the epinotal spines long and thin, and shaped like those of the typical eurvispiiiosus.
Head very coarsely longitudinally rugose, subopaque.
Pronotum evenly and coarsely foveolate-punctate, mesoand epinotum opaque, coarsely reticulate rugose, the rugae without a longitudinal trend.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque, shaped like those of rugatulus, the former with a prominent ventral tooth, directed downward and forward.
Upper surface of head and whole dorsal surface of gaster, except a large, transversely elliptical spot on the anterior portion of the first segment and the extreme posterior edge of this and the remaining segments, dark-ljrown or black.
Remainder of body brownish-yellow.
Type locality : Boulder, Colo.
Described from four specimens collected by Rev.
P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B.
This form is clearly intermediate in structure and coloration between the typical curvispinosus and the subspecies rugatulus.
10.
Leptothorax Schmittii spuov.
Worker (PL XH, fig.
14).— Length 2-2.25 mm.
Head conspicuously narrow, with parallel sides, decidedly longer than broad, with straight posterior border.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus moderately convex, its anterior border with a small but distinct excision in the center and a distinct median carina extending nearly its full length.
Antennae 12-jointed; scape reaching the posterior corner of the head; first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together; second joint as long as broad ; joints 3-8 nearly as long as broad; club distinctly 3-jointed, first and second joints subequal, together a little shorter than the terminal joint.
Thorax rather long and narrow, widest in front where the humeral angles are sharp and prominent.
In profile the pronotum rises very abruptly from the neck, so that a trans" verse ridge is formed which gives the thorax a square-shouldere appearance; dorsum flatly and evenly rounded, without mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines well-developed, longer than broad at their bases, tapering and pointed, directed distinctly backward though slightly upward and outward ; in profile the ventral outline of the spines is distinctly concave, the dorsal convex.
They are about as long as their distance apart at the base.
Petiole about 1^ times as long as broad, distinctly broader behind than in front when seen from above; in profile the height of the node is fully equal to the length of the whole joint; its anterior surface is steep and somewhat concave, the top of the node abruptly truncated, the posterior slope so steep that it is even inclined forward below and forms somewhat less than a right angle with the extreme posterior dorsal surface of the petiole; ventral tooth well developed, directed downward.
Postpetiole hardly twice as broad as the petiole, distinctly broader than long ; its anterior wider than its posterior border, its anterior angles rather prominent.
Gaster of the usual shape.
Mandibles not distinctly striated; shining, with a few coarse punctures.
Clypeus shining, longitudinally rugose on the sides.
Head very smooth and shining, covered with rather coarse but sparse piligerous punctures ; sides of frontal area, cheeks and subocular region subopaque and delicately longitudinally rugose.
Proand mesonotum very smooth and shining, with a few piligerous punctures passing over onto the pleurae into delicate longitudinal rugae, which become much coarser and distinctly reticulate on the sides and whole upper surface of the epinotum.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque, reticulate and punctate-rugose.
Gaster very smooth, shining.
Hairs white, only moderately abundant; clavate and erect on the thorax and crown of head, somewhat longer and more reclinate on the pedicel and gaster; the hairs on the sides of the head, antennae and legs non-clavate, appressed; those on the clypeus thin and projecting.
^'ery dark-brown, almost black.
]\Iandibles, neck, funiculus and legs yellow; scape and club of antennae and the middle of the femora and tibise infuscated; edges of mandibles black.
Type locality: Canon City, Colo.
Described from four specimens collected by Rev.
P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B., to whom I take pleasure in dedicating this very striking species.
It is quite unlike any of the other described North American forms in the shape of the thorax and petiole and the smoothness of the head, proand mesonotum.
11.
Leptothorax nitens Emery.
L. nitens Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1S94, pp.
318, 322, 323.
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
15).— Length 2-2.25 mm.
Mandibles 5-toothed; basal teeth very small.
Clypeus moderately convex, impressed in the middle and with sinuately excised anterior border.
Antennae 12-jointed ; scape reaching to | the distance between the eye and the posterior angle of the head ; funiculus terminating in a distinctly 3-jointed clul), the two basal joints of which are subequalin length, together decidedly shorter than the terminal joint ; first funicular joint as long as the three succeeding joints together, joints 2-7 of the funiculus slightly broader than long, the 8th about as long as broad.
Thorax slender, somewhat broader in front than behind ; compressed laterally, pronotum rather prominent and square in front, humeri rounded ; in profile the dorsal surface is somewhat flattened and without mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines very small, toothlike, hardly as long as broad at their bases, directed upward, about as far apart as they are broad at their leases.
Petiole about 1^ times as long as broad, gradually widened behind when seen from above; in profile the node is very high, its anterior slope steep and concave, its summit very short and rounded, the posterior slope abrupt, the ventral tooth is distinct and pointed forward and downward.
Petiole nodiform, a little broader than long, half again as broad as the petiole, its anterior angles much rounded.
Gaster of the usual shape.
Mandibles smooth and shining, indistinctly striated and punctate.
Clypeus smooth and shining, with a few longitudinal rugse on its anterolateral surfaces.
Head very smooth and shining, minutely and sparsely punctate; sides of front, antennal fovese and cheeks longitudinal rugulose.
Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, finely and regularly foveolate-reticulate.
In some specimens more or less of the proand mesonotum is shining .
Pleurse faintly striated longitudinally.
Gaster very smooth and shining.
Hairs moderately abundant, yellow; clavate on crown of head, thorax and abdomen ; erect and shorter on head and thorax ; longer and slightly reclinate on the pedicel and gaster; hairs on sides of head, legs and antennse minute, non-clavate, appressed.
Yellow, in some specimens crown of head, antennal club and dorsum of gaster slightly infuscated.
Type locaUty: American Fork Caiion, Utah (Pergande).
Additional locaUties: Pacific Grove, Cal.
(Dr. H. Heath); Canon City, Colo. (Rev.
P. J. Schmitt, O.S.B.).
Emery described the species from a single specimen in which the thorax was shining.
Examination of a number of California and Colorado specimens from the same nests shows this to be a common but by no means constant character; in a great many individuals the thorax is uniformly opaque throughout.
One of the colonies sent me by Dr. Heath was found in the ground, hibernating in a Termite burrow.
lla.
Var.
Heathii van nov. Worker.
— Differs from the preceding in the coloration, which is constant in a whole colony sent me by Dr. Harold Heath from Pacific Grove, Cal.
The body is brown, often rather dark, the legs and antennae brownish-white without the distinct yellow cast of the typical form.
Found nesting in the ground under a stone.
lib.
Subsp.
occidentalis subsp.
nov. Worker.
— This form combines the color characters of the type and the preceding variety.
The ground color is yellow, the upper surface of the head, thorax and pedicel brown; the first gastric segment with a broad, brown dorsal band across its posterior half or two-thirds.
Thorax and pedicel decidedly opaque.
Antennal scape nearly reaching the posterior angle of the head, epinotal spines decidedly more robust than in the typical nitens and the var.
Heathii.
Type locahty: Friday Harbor, Wash.
Described from six specimens received from Prof. Trevor Kincaid, 12.
Leptothorax texanus sp.
nov. Worker (PL XII, fig.
16).— Length 2.25-2.75 mm.
Head longer than broad.
Eyes rather large.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus moderately convex, its anterior border somewhat rounded.
Antenna 12jointed; scape reaching nearly to the posterior angle of the head ; funiculus terminating in a very distinct 3-jointed club, the last joint of which is somewhat longer than the two preceding joints; first funicular joint nearly as long as joints 2-5; second funicular joint about as long as broad, the remaining joints broader than long.
Thorax rather short, its humeral angles rounded, dorsum evenly and slightly rounded, without mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines moderate, distinctly shorter than the decUvous surface of the epinotum, scarcely as long as their distance apart at the base, rapidly tapering, acute, directed upward, outward and backward, their tips slightly deflected.
Petiole from above fully Ih times as long as broad; its sides somewhat convex, so that its outline is subelliptical; in profile the anterior slope is abrupt and distinctly concave, the summit of the node flattened, and the posterior slope suddenly declivous; ventral tooth small, acute, directed downward.
Postpetiole very large, fully twice as broad as the petiole; broader than long, its anterior and posterior angles rounded, so that it appears transversely elliptical from above; in profile it is very convex, especially in front.
Gaster elliptical, depressed, without distinct anterior angles.
Mandibles coarsely striated.
Clypeus traversed by several clean-cut longitudinal rugae, subsiding on the posterior portion which is smooth and shining.
Head subopaque, coarsely reticulate-rugose; the rugae distinctly longitudinal only on the front and vertex ; interrugal spaces secondarily reticulate.
Neck evenly reticulate; thoracic dorsum very coarsely and irregularly reticulate-rugose; the spaces between the rugae smooth and shining, because the secondary reticulation is indistinct or lacking.
Pleurae somewhat more delicately and evenly rugose.
Petiole and postpetiole coarsely reticulate-rugose, interrugal spaces filled with shallow foveolae or secondary reticulation.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs white, rather numerous and prominent; on the trunk clavate; shorter and more erect on the head and thorax, longer and slightly reclinate on the pedicel and gaster; on the legs and antennae distinct, non-clavate, more or less appressed.
Black or very dark-brown, especially on the head, thorax and petiole.
Mandibles, excepting the teeth, funiculus, tips of epinotal spines, tarsi and articulations of legs, excepting the last tarsal joint, yellow; antennal scape brown.
Female.
— Length 3.75-4 mm.
Head more decidedly and extensively longitudinally rugose than in the worker.
Neck delicately, pronotum more coarsely reticulaterugose; mesonotum and paraptera traversed by numerous longitudinal rugae which are more or less interrupted and have a tendency to anastomose.
Scutellum with such rugae only in front and on the sides, posteriorly it is nearly smooth and shining.
Pleura^ and cpinotiim with rather coarse, distinctl)^ longitudinal rugae.
Epinotal spines small, acute, straight.
Petiole with pointed node and more abruptly declivous posterior slope than in the worker, its dorsal surface scarcely flattened.
Postpetiole very convex in front above.
Sculpturing of petiole and postpetiole as in the worker.
Color of head, thorax and pedicel reddish-brown, darker on the dorsal surface.
Gaster black.
Pilosity of body and legs and color of the latter much as in the worker.
Wings whitish-hyaline; veins and stigma yellow.
Male.
— Length 2-2.5 mm.
Head exclusive of the mandibles broader than long, cheeks short, posterior angles convex and rounded.
Mandibles overlapping each other.
Antennae 13-jointed; scape as long as the first four joints of the funiculus, club very distinct, 4-jointed, the first, second and third subequal, fully H times as long as broad, apical joint as long as the second and third together; first funicular joint somewhat swollen, fully Ih times as long as broad; joints 2-8 longer than broad.
Epinotum with two very small, indistinct protuberances in the place of the spines.
Petiole slender, in profile concave below; anterior dorsal slope nearly straight, gradual, posterior slope shorter, abruptly declivous, rather concave.
Postpetiole campanulate, about as long as broad; H times as broad as the petiole.
Legs long and slender.
Mandibles striated.
Clypeus coarsely and irregularly reticulaterugose, shining.
Head subopaque, evenl}^ and rather delicately reticulate-rugose.
Neck finely reticulate; mesonotum shining, with a faint reproduction of the irregular rugosity of the worker; remainder of thorax and the pedicel delicately reticulate-punctate.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs white, non-clavate, long and moderately abundant on the mandibles, pedicel and gaster; sparser elsewhere.
Black; mandibles and genitalia yellow; antennal funiculus grayishbrown; wings like those of female; legs like those of the worker in color.
Type locality: Milano, Millan County, Tex.
All three sexual phases of this species were taken May 23, 1902, in nests consisting of a few small galleries, 3-4 inches long, excavated in .the sand in rather damp spots under post-oaks and cedars.
13.
Leptothorax tricarinatus Emery.
L. tricarinatus Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, pp.
318, 321, 322.
5.
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
17).
— Length 2.25 mm.
Clypeus produced in front in the middle, obtusely angulate, above with three slender longitudinal carina?.
Antenna?
12-jointed, first fiuiicular joint longer than the three succeeding joints together; remaining joints shorter than broad; two basal joints of club siibequal.
Thorax not impressed at the mesoepinotal suture.
Epinotal spines short, rather acute, ol^liquely erect.
Petiole thickened behind, node subconical, obtuse.
Postpetiole much larger than the petiole, subglobose.
Mandibles striated.
Clypeus shining.
Head, thorax and pe tiole subopaque.
punctate and finel}' rugose, pronotum more shining in the middle.
Hairs on the body clavate, on the legs and antennal scape nonclavate and sparse.
Fuscous black; mandibles, articulations of legs and the tarsi reddish.
Type locality: Hill City.
S. Dak.
(Pergande).
Descriljed from a single specimen in the collection of Prof. C. Emery.
14.
Leptothorax neomexicanus sp.
nov. Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
18).— Length 2.25-2.5 mm.
Head longer than broad.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Ch-peus moderately convex, broadly rounded in front, not impressed, Antennte slender, 12-jointed; scape extending to a distance equal to its own breadth beyond the posterior angle of the head ; funiculus terminating in a 3-jointed club, the two basal joints of which are subequal and together shorter than the terminal joint ; first funicular joint as long as the three succeeding joints together; joints 2-8 of the funiculus as long as broad.
Thorax not much broader in front and above than behind and below; humeral angles rounded; dorsal surface flattened, without mesoepinotal suture or constriction.
Epinotal spines short, robust, blunt, not longer than broad at their bases and nearly twice as far apart at their bases as long.
They are directed obliquely upward, outward and backward.
Petiole hardly 1^times as long as broad; distinctly wider behind than in front, sides somewhat convex; in profile the node is nearly as high as the length of the petiole, its anterior slope steep, slightly concave; the summit somewhat truncated, passing abruptly into the angular posterior declivity ; ventral surface in front with a prominent tooth, directed downward and forward.
Postpetiole nearly twice as broad as the petiole; nearly as long as broad, subglobular, its anterior dorsal surface in profile abruptly convex, the posterior dorsal surface more flattened.
Gaster of the usual shape with slight basal angles.
Mandibles coarsely striated and punctate.
Clypeus longitudinally rugose, especially on the sides, behintl without rugie, smooth and shinino-, somewhat foveolate-punctate.
Head subopaque except along a broad median strip, extending from the frontal area to the occiput, and on the posterior angles.
These regions are smooth and shining.
Clieeks and sides of head rather delicately and longitudinally reticulate-rugose.
On the front and vertex there are also a few rather large indentations at widely separated intervals.
Thorax nearly opaque, in front delicately and evenly reticulate-rugose ; on the epinotum and pleurse the rugte are coarser and have a distinctly' longitudinal trend.
Petiole and postpetiole nearly opaque, finely reticulate-rugose.
Gaster very smooth and shining.
Hairs rather sparse, sil verywhite ; those on the body subclavate, shorter and more erect on the head and thorax, longer and more reclinate on the pedicel and gaster.
Hairs on the legs and antennie short, non-clavate, appressed.
Black.
In some specimens the pedicel and thorax are dark-brown.
Scape and funiculus of antennae brown.
Mandibles yellow, with black teeth.
Legs yellow, middle portion of the femora and tibiae and terminal tarsal joint on each foot, black.
Type locality: Manzanares, N. M. Described from five specimens taken by Miss Mary Cooper.
The species is obviously closely related to L. tricarinatus Emery, and may prove to be merely a subspecies of this form.
To judge from Emery's description, the head of tricarinatus is more opaque, the mesonotum shining, the first funicular joint larger than the three succeeding joints, the remaining joints of the funiculus shorter than broad.
Apparently, also, the postpetiole is considerably larger than in neomexicanus.
15.
Leptothorax obturator sp.
nov. Worker (PL XII, fig.
19).— Length 2.25-2.75 mm.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus rather flat, its anterior margin broadly truncated in the middle.
Antennae 12-jointed ; scape reaching posterior angle of head; first funicular joint as long as the three succeeding joints; joints 3-S broader than long, joints 9-11 forming a club, the ninth distinctly narrower and shorter than the tenth, the terminal joint longer and considerably thicker than the two preceding joints.
Thorax slender, somewhat broader in front than behind; rounded at the humeri, in profile convex in front and slightly concave behind on the dorsal surface, without mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines small, rather acute, not longer than broad at their bases, nor further apart than long, directed upward.
In front and on the side of each epinotal spine there is a distinct longitudinal swelling or ridge on the epinotum.
Petiole veiy slender, three times as long as broad, sides of the node parallel, the peduncle somewhat narrower when seen from above; in profile the lower surface is evenly concave, the anterior tooth minute; the dorsal surface with a low regularly rounded, knoll-like node.
Postpetiole small, about H times as broad as the petiole, as broad as long, square when seen from above, with prominent anterior angles; in profile the low'er surface is flattened, the upper convex, especially in front.
Gaster with distinct anterior angles.
Sting well developed.
Mandibles opaque, striated and with a few coarse punctures.
Clypeus subopaque, its whole surface longitudinalh^ rugose.
Head subopaque in front and on the sides, shining behind, on the former regions densely and rather finely reticulate-rugose; the ruga?
with a distinct longitudinal trend except on an opaque patch above each e^^e, where the rugge are evenly reticulate.
The shining portion of the head is traversed by clean-cut longitudinal rugse much farther apart than on the front and crown and interspersed with a few coarse punctures; posterior angles of head delicately reticulate.
Thorax subopaque; pronotal region more shining, foveolate-reticulate on the whole dorsal surface; pleurae more coarsely reticulate-rugose, with pronounced longitudinal trend in a few of the rugae, especially in the upper mesoand low^er metapleurse.
Petiole and postpetiole subopaque, rather evenly foveolate-reticulate.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs moderately abundant, snoAv-white; clavate on the crown of the head, thorax, pedicel and gaster; a little longer on the pedicel and gaster and somewhat more reclinate.
Hairs on the legs and antennae sparse, non-clavate, appressed and inconspicuous.
Black or very dark-brown.
Mandibles, joints 3-9 of the antenna?, neck, ventral surface of petiole and postpetiole reddish-yellow'.
Legs reddish-yellow, except the middle of the coxae, femora, tibiae and last tarsal joint, which are black.
Female.
— Length 3.5-3.75 mm.
Clypeus and head more coarsely longitudinally rugose and more opaque than in the worker.
Thorax subopaque; neck delicately reticulate-rugose ; pronotum transversely and irregularly rugose ; mesonotum, paraptera and scutellum traversed by dense, parallel, clean-cut, longitudinal ruga?.
Epinotum delicately and somewhat concentrically reticulate-rugose ; armed with two inconspicuous swellings in the place of the spines; pleurae longitudinally rugose.
Petiole and postpetiole like those of the worker, the node of the former relatively lower; postpetiole hardly Ij times as broad as the petiole.
The white hairs on the body are non-clavate, though those on the pedicel and gaster are somewhat thickened.
Head, thorax and pedicel yellowish-red or dark-red, their upper surfaces more or less infuscated.
Gaster black.
Antennal scape black with basal half yellow; first joint of funiculus and club black, remaining joints yellow.
Legs colored like those of the worker.
Wings milky-white, veins yellow ; stigma brown, conspicuous.
Male.
— Length 1.5-2 mm.
Head as long as broad, exclusive of the mandibles ; cheeks very short.
Mandibles meeting with their tips.
Clypeus convex, truncated in front.
Antennse slender; 13-jointed; scape nearly as long as the first five joints of the fiagellum; first flagellar joint thickened, nearly as long as the three following joints together; joints 2-8 of the fiagellum cylindrical, as long as broad; the four terminal joints forming a club, of which the three basal joints are subequal in length but increase somewhat in thickness distally; terminal joint much larger, distinctly longer than the two preceding joints.
Epinotum with two very inconspicuous thickenings in the place of the spines.
Petiole and postpetiole similar in shape to the corresponding segments of the worker, node of former very low.
Clypeus shining, with a few reticulate rugse forming rather large meshes.
Head, thorax and pedicel opaque, finely and evenly reticulate-rugose.
Mesonotum sparsely foveolate-punctate and traversed by a narrow, smooth, longitudinal stripe.
Pleurse shining in part.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs white, sparse, non-clavate, most abundant on the thoracic dorsum, pedicel and gaster.
Black; pleural and pedicel more piceous.
Mandibles, legs and antennse white; the mandibles w^ith brown edges, the antennse with scape, second joint and club blackened; legs with the coxse, middle of the femora and tibise and the last tarsal joint blackened.
Type locality: Austin, Tex.
Described from many specimens collected at different times from the abandoned Holcaspis cinerosus galls on the live-oaks {Q. virginiana).
The young fertilized queen, on entering the gall to establish her colony, gnaws n)inute fragments from the ligneous wall, mixes these wdth some secretion (saliva?)
and completely plugs up the round opening through which the Holcaspis escaped and she herself has entered.
Later when the first batch of tiny workers appear, they perforate the center of the plug with a small opening like a pin-prick, and .just large enough for egress and ingress.
This opening is too small for the queen to pass, so that she remains imprisoned.
With the growth of the colony the chamber formerly made and inhabited by the Holcaspis larva is enlarged by the workers.
The queen with the larvae prefers to inhabit the small central capsule in which the Holcaspis passed its pupal life.
The larvae are of a peculiar greenish tint.
The males and virgin females make their appearance in the colony during the last week of May.
At no time are the colonies of L. obturator very large.
They rarely comprise more than 36 or 40 workers.
Members of different colonies, even from galls on the same branch, are extremely hostile to one another.
Along the creek-bottoms near Austin, L. obturator is also occasionally found nesting in the twigs of the waferash (Ptelea trijoliata) which have been hollowed out by tiny carpenter-bees {Ceratina nanula Ckll.
and C. arizonensis Ckll.).
The relatively large entrance made by the bees at the end of the twig is plugged up by the ants with agglutinated vegetable particles and then perforated with a minute opening in the center.
16.
Leptothorax nevadensis sp.
nov. Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
20).— Length 2.5-3 mm.
^landibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus depressed in the middle, its anterior margin sinuately excised.
Antennae 12-jointed, scape reaching to posterior corner of the head, first funicular joint as long as joints 2-4 together, joints 2-6 slightly broader than long, joints 7 and 8 as long as broad; two basal joints of club subequal, together shorter than the terminal joint.
Thorax above in front of about the same width as below and behind; humeri much rounded, dorsum flattened in profile, without mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines robust, pointed, decidedly longer than broad at their bases, and nearer together at their bases than long, directed upward, outward and backward.
Petiole H times as long as broad, sides of node rounded, broader than the peduncle; seen from above the node is transverse, in profile it is narrow antero-posteriorly, its anterior slope gently ascending, concave, its posterior slope more abrupt, also concave, summit rounded; ventral surface of petiole with a prominent, compressed, downwardly directed tooth.
Postpetiole in profile with a prominent, sometimes sHghtly angular node; the segment seen from above is transversely elliptical, about half again as broad as long, its anterior angles rounded.
Gaster and legs of the usual conformation.
Mandibles striate and punctate.
Clypeus subopaque, its surface, especially at the sides, traversed by rather coarse longitudinal rugse.
Head with a satiny luster, sparsely punctate and with dehcate longitudinal rugae, which become decidedly reticulate in the antennal foveae.
Thorax subopaque, its dorsal surface irregularly reticulaterugose and foveolate, pleurae, petiole and postpetiole regularly foveolate-punctate ; posterior epinotal declivity rather coarsely longitudinally rugose.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs yellow, not very abundant; clavate on thorax, pedicel and crown of head ; short and erect on head and thorax, longer and somewhat reclinate on the pedicel and gaster.
Hairs on antennje, legs and sides of head less conspicuous and appressed, except on the antennae, where they are suberect.
Rather dark reddish-brown, ventral portions of head, thorax and pedicel and the incisures of the gastric segments, yellowish.
Legs and antennae yellowish, middle of femora and the antennal club darkbrown.
Immature specimens have the thorax and pedicel more extensively yellow.
Female (dealated).
— Length 4.5 mm.
Mandibles densely striated and somewhat punctate.
Clypeus with coarse longitudinal rugae, one of which forms a distinct carina in the middle of the sclerite.
Frontal area opaque.
Head with coarse and very regular longitudinal rugae, but little diverging behind and but slightly reticulate.
On the upper surface of the head there are also a number of shallow but distinct foveolae in the interrugal furrows.
Pronotum and pleurae coarsely longitudinally rugose; mesonotum shining, sparsely foveolate and rather indistinctly longitudinally rugose, especially in front.
Scutellum and paraptera like the mesonotum, the former with indications of rugae only at its anterior border.
Whole epinotum subopaque, coarsely rugose, even over the entire surface of the robust, pointed spines, which are as long as they are broad at their bases.
Declivous surface of epinotum regularly transversely rugose.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque, reticulate and punctate-rugose, more coarsely on the sides than on the summits of the nodes ; petiolar node in profile more acute than in the worker.
Gaster very glabrous.
Head, thorax and pedicel rich reddish-brown; gaster decidedly darker.
Legs and antennae yellow.
In the latter all the joints of the funiculus are distinctly longer than broad, and the club, which is not infuscated, is indistinct.
Wing-insertions black, Hairs on the body sparse, yellow, not clavate like those of the worker, but more or less tapering.
Male.— Length.
2.5-3 mm.
Mandibles dentate, overlapping with their blades.
Clypeus convex, truncated in the middle in front.
Antennae 13-jointed; scape slender, as long as joints 1-5 of the funiculus.
First funicular joint fully twice as long as broad, much stouter than the succeeding joints, except those of the 4-jointed chib; joints 3-7 longer than broad; three basal joints of club subequal, each not more than half as long as the terminal joint.
Cheeks short.
Thorax with very deep Mayrian and other sutures.
Epinotum without indications of spines.
Petiole and postpetiole longer and with lower nodes than in the worker.
Gaster of the usual shape.
Mandibles and clypeus somewhat shining, the latter with a few prominent and irregular longitudinal rugse.
Head decidedly opaque, uniformly and densely punctate.
Thorax shining, mesonotum, scutellum and pleurae with faint, parallel, longitudinal striae.
Pronotum and epinotum more reticulate-rugose.
Petiole and postpetiole smooth and shining on the summits of the nodes, elsewhere subopaque, finely reticulate-rugose.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs covering the body sparse, whitish, non-clavate, longest and most conspicuous on the gaster, very small and appressed on the legs and antennae.
Black, thorax and pedicel more piceous, especially on their lateral and ventral surfaces.
The following parts are yellowish, or yellow suffused with piceous: mandibles, except their teeth, which are black, antennae, legs and genitalia.
Wings whitish-hyaline, veins and stigma colorless.
Type locality : King's Cafion, Ormsby county, Nev.
Described from eight workers, one female and eight males, found by ]\Ir.
C. F. Baker during August, 19n2, nesting in the ground under a stone.
This species appears to be similar to L. tricarinatus Emery, but differs in the shape of the clypeus, which is impressed and sinuately excised and not produced, and in the shape of the epinotal spines, petiole, etc.
17.
Leptothorax terrigena sp.
nov. Worker (PL XII, fig.
21).— Length 1.5-1.75 mm.
Head rather narrow, with parallel sides.
Mandibles 5-toothed.
Clypeus moderately convex, without median impression and with broadly rounded, non-sinuate anterior border.
AntennjB 12-jointed, scape extending to f the distance between the eye and the posterior corner of the head; first funicular joint as long as the three succeeding joints together; joints 2-8 of funiculus decidedly broader than long, subequal ; three terminal joints forming a distinct club, of which the two basal joints are subequal in length but not in thickness, and together shorter than the terminal joint.
Thorax slender, somewhat broader in front than behind, with rounded humeral angles and moderatelv elevated anterior pronotal border.
Pleurae compressed; dorsum flattened and without mesoepinotal constrictions.
Epinotal spines small, conical, distinctly longer and further apart than broad at their bases.
Petiole short, hardly Ih times as long as broad, sides of node convex when seen from above and much broader than the peduncle; in profile the node is high and very thick with an evenly rounded summit, very steep and concave anterior, and very abrupt posterior declivity; ventral tooth rather large, blunt .
Postpetiole twice as broad as the petiole, distinctly broader than long, transversely elliptical from above, with rounded anterior angles.
Gaster of the usual shape.
Mandibles and clypeus subopaque, the former longitudinally striated and with a few coarse punctures, the latter longitudinally rugose.
Head opaque throughout, evenly and densely punctate except along the sides of the frontal region, where there are a few delicate longitudinal rugse.
Thorax, petiole and postpetiole opaque, densely punctate.
Gaster smooth and shining.
Hairs white, moderately numerous, clavate on crown of head, thorax and abdomen ; erect on head and thorax, more reclinate on the pedicel and gaster; minute, inconspicuous and appressed on the antennae and legs.
Whole body, even the anterior portion of the gaster, golden-yellow, except the antennal club which is blackened.
Female (dealated).
— Length 2.5 mm.
Head opaque, densely punctate; cheeks and whole preocellar region irregularly longitudinally rugulose, the postocellar region and posterior angles more reticulate.
Thorax opaque, densely punctate ; mesonotum and scutellum wath very faint, parallel, longitudinal rugse.
Epinotal spines very short and stout, regularly conical, not as far apart as they are broad at the base.
Petiole and postpetiole like those of the worker, but the latter segment fully twice as broad as long.
Both segments of the pedicel densely punctate, opaque, except the dorsal surfaces of the nodes which are somewhat smooth and shining.
Body brownishyellow, legs pale-yellow.
Antennal club, wing-insertions, sides and posterior border of first gastric segment, a broad transverse band on the second gastric segment and the tip of the gaster, dark-brown.
Pilosity like that of the worker.
Type locality: Austin and McNeil (Travis county), Tex.
This small species lives in and on the ground.
At Austin I have occasionally seen a few workers running about on the dry gravelly hill-slopes exposed to the sun.
At McNeil I took a few dozen workers and a dealated queen, which were inhabiting a small spherical chan:ber in the "black waxy" soil under the center of a large flat stone.
Two other nests taken at Austin exhibited a tendency toward plesiobiosis.
One of these was found in the vegetable debris at the very entrance of the nest of a timid fungus-growing ant {Tracliymyrmcx turrifex Wheeler), the other under a stone at the very edge of a flourishing colony of Pheidole instabilis Emery.
L. terrigena is undoubtedly closely allied to L. Andrei Emery, which I have not seen.
The worker differs, however, in its decidedly smaller size, shape of petiole and postpetiole, its larger and stouter epinotal spines, the absence of a clypeal sinuosity, a shining longitudinal band on the front and vertex, and the absence of infuscation on the abdomen, although the last character is clearly present in the female.
18.
Leptothorax Andrei Emerj-.
L. Andrei Emery, Morpli.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, pp.
318, 322.
Worker (PI.
XII, fig.
22).— Length 2.25 mm.
Clypeus feebly carinate in the middle, its anterior border subsinuate.
Antennae 12-jointed; first funicular joint a little shorter than the three succeeding joints; second joint of club a little longer than the preceding joint.
Thoracic dorsum without a mesoepinotal constriction.
Epinotal spines in the form of short, stout teeth.
Petiole with a rather long peduncle, its node above subrotund.
Postpetiole about a third broader than the petiole, a little broader than long.
Mandibles striated.
Head opaque, longitudinally rugulose-punctate; cheeks and clypeus striated, the latter and a median line along the front and vertex shining.
Thorax and pedicel opaque; the former densely, the latter more faintly punctate.
Gaster and legs shining.
Hairs on the body sparse, short and clavate.
Testaceous, abdomen darker behind, legs pale.
Type locality: Cahfornia (Andre).
The species was described from a single specimen in the collection of Prof. Emery.
19.
Leptothorax (Dicliothorax) Pergandei Emery.
L (£>.)
Pergandei Emery, Zool.
Jahrb.
Abth.
f.
Svst., VIII, 1894, pp.
318-323, 324. ?
.
Worker (PI.
XII, figs.
23 and 23a).— Length 2.5-3.25 mm.
Mandibles rather broad, 5-toothed.
Clypeus moderately convex, broadly rounded in front, with a distinct median carina.
Antennae 12-jointed, scape extending beyond the posterior angle of the head a distance fully equal to twice its breadth; first funicular joint as long as the three succeeding joints together; joints 3-8 nearly as long as broad; club 3-jointed, the two basal joints subequal, together shorter than the terminal joint.
Thorax long, rather robust, not much wider in front than behind, without abrupt decUvity at the juncture of the neck and pronotum, proand mesonotum convex; mesoepinotal constriction very deep and broad.
Epinotal spinas small, not longer than broad at the base, directed upward.
Petiole from above nearly three times as long as its greatest width which is in the middle ; in profile the node is low and rounded above, the anterior slope very long, at first nearly horizontal, then gradually ascending, the posterior slope shorter, somewhat flattened; summit of node distinctly impressed or concave when seen from behind; ventral surface of peduncle with a long but not very prominent tooth.
Postpetiole fully half again as broad as the petiole, a little broader than long, nearly square, its anterior angles prominent, its dorsal surface in profile very convex, especially in front.
Gaster rather large, of the usual shape.
Sting well developed.
Legs robust.
Mandibles longitudinally striated.
Clypeus smooth, especially behind, its sides longitudinally rugose.
Head smooth and shining above and behind, sparsely punctate and irregularly and delicately reticulate.
Antennal foveae with curved, parallel ruga%front and cheeks with straight rugae.
Neck opaque and delicately rugose; proand mesonotum shining, very finely and irregularly reticulate, pleurae, epinotum and mesoepinotal constriction subopaque, coarsely reticulate-rugose; in the constriction and on the mesoand metapleurae the rugae have a distinctly longitudinal trend.
Declivous surface of epinotum smooth and shining.
Petiole and postpetiole shining and finely reticulate above, more opaque and reticulate-rugose on the sides.
Gaster smooth and shining, finely and irregularly reticulate.
Hairs white, long and very abundant, obtuse but not clavate, erect on the trunk, suberect on the legs and antennae.
Black or rich dark-brown, mandibles, antennae, except the club, frontal carinae, thorax, pedicel and legs yellowish-red or testaceous.
In some specimens the dorsal surface of the thorax and nodes is blackened, while in others the whole of the thorax, nodes and legs is black except the peduncle of the petiole and the tarsi and joints of the legs, which are yellow.
Female.
— Length 3.5-4 mm.
Apart from the usual sexual characters, differs from the worker in having the lower surfaces of the head, thorax, pedicel and the legs more yellowish.
The smooth surfaces of the body are hardly reticulate.
Mesonotum adorned with a median brown blotch on its anterior half and a large comma-shaped spot on either parapsis.
Scutellmii, epi17 notum and pleurae more or less spotted with brown, and a small black spot at the insertion of the forewing.
Femora and tibise infiiscated in the middle.
Antennal club infuscated.
Wings milky-hyaline, with colorless veins and stigma.
Concavity at summit of petiolar node very distinct; postpetiole nearly twice as broad as long.
Epinotal spines distinctly shorter than broad at their bases.
Male.
— Length 2-2.25 mm.
Head a little longer than broad; cheeks very short, eyes and ocelli prominent.
Mandibles overlapping, 4-toothed.
Clypeus convex.
Antennae 13-jointed, scape about as long as the five succeeding joints, first funicular joint about as long as the second and third together; joints 3-8 slender, cylindrical, subeciual, twice as long as Inroad ; club 4-jointed, the three basal joints subecjual, together as long as the terminal joint.
Thorax long, mesonotum rounded, projecting forward, so that the head is scarcely visible when the insect is viewed from above.
Epinotum with a pair of slight projections in the place of the spines.
Petiole long and slender, like that of the worker luit with lower node.
Postpetiole as long as broad, square from above, in profile with the node highest in the middle of the segment and rounded.
Gaster and legs of the usual conformation.
Mandibles and clypeus subopaque, the latter coarsely rugose.
Head shining, very irregularly and sparsely reticulate, in front of the ocelli with a few shallow foveolse.
Pronotum subopaque, reticulate; mesonotum very smooth and shining, finely reticulate.
Scutellum and epinotiun more opaque, disk of former coarsely reticulate, sides of both longitudinally rugulose.
Petiole and postpetiole opaque, more shining above, delicately corrugated.
Gaster very smooth and shining.
Hairs white, rather sparse and long, even on the legs and antennal scape, where they are reclinate but not appressed.
Black.
Mandibles, antennae and legs white except the following portions, which are infuscated or blackened: Edges and teeth of mandibles, terminal joint of antennae, basal two-thirds of coxae, middle of femora and tibiae and last tarsal joint.
Wings like those of the female.
Type locality: Washington, D. C. (Pergande).
Additional localities : Morgantown, N. C. (Forel) ; Austin, Tex.
; San Angelo, Tom Green County, Tex.
; Toronto, Brewster County, Tex.
The type specimens of this fine species were taken by Mr. Pergande in a nest of Monomorium minutum Mayr var.
minimum, and it was supposed that the Leptothorax was a guest in the nests of the Monomorium, but Forel, who observed the species in North Carolina, showed that this was altogether an exceptional case.
He found L. Pergandei living "in independent formicaries, in the moss of woods or in the earth of meadows, hke the ordinary species of Leptothorax" (Aim.
Soc.
Ent.
de Belg., Tome XLV, 1901, pp.
389-398).
In Texas I have had ample opportunity to observe the habits of this ant, especially in the neighborhood of Austin, where it is found making its nests in very sparsely grassy spots among the mesquite and Opuntia thickets.
The nests can be found only by carefully tracking foraging workers, as the entrance is a small hole often concealed under a dead twig or a tuft of grass roots.
The colonies are hardly more populous than those of other species of Leptothorax.
The winged forms appear during the last week in April and the first week in May.
The workers run about on the soil in the hot sun as fierce hunters of small insects (Aphids, minute Heteroptera, etc).
As they are extremely pugnacious even toward individuals of the same species from other nests, and as I have never found them nesting with Monomorium jninimum, though this species is very common in the same localities, I believe, with Forel, that Pergande's observation must be cjuite exceptional or may even involve some misinterpretation.
20.
Leptothorax (Dichothorax) floridanus Emery.
L. (D.) floridanus Emerv, Zool.
Jahrb., Abth.
f.
Syst., VIII, 1894, pp.
318, 324.
^ .
According to Emery, the worker of this species (PI.
XII, figs.
24 and 24a) differs from the preceding in the following characters : The body is more shining, the epinotum smooth and shining above, the mesoepinotal constriction punctulate, subopaque, the petiolar node is narrower, and not impressed above, the postpetiole is hardly ^ again as broad as the petiole and proportionally narrower than in Pergandei.
Type locahty: Florida (Pergande).
Additional locality: North Carohna (Forel).
The differences between the two Dichothorax are so slight that Emery suspected floridanus to be merely a subspecies of Pergandei.
I am myself strongly of this opinion, but as I have seen only a single specimen of floridanus, kindly given me by Prof. Forel, I hesitate to reduce this form to subgeneric rank.
In my specimen the petiolar node is very decidedly convex when seen from behind, and the epinotal spines are longer and more curved than in any of my specimens of Pergandei.
In other respects I can see no differences of importance.
Color, pilosity and sculpture are the same in both forms.
Explanation of Plate XII.
Fig.
1.
— Leptothorax muscorum Nylander.
Switzerland.
In this and the following figures only the profile view of thorax and pedicel (petiole and postpetiole) of the worker are represented.
All the figures are from camera lucida drawings.
Fig.
2.
— L. muscorum var.
sordidus var.
nov.
Fig.
3.
— L. acervorum Mayr.
Switzerland.
Fig.
4.
— L. acervorum subsp.
Canadensis Provancher.
Fig.
5.
— L. acervorum subsp.
Canadensis var.
Yankee Emery Fig.
6.
— L. Emersoni Wlieeler.
Fig.
7.
— L. Schaumi Roger.
Fig.
8.
— L. fortinodis Mayr.
Fig.
9.
— L. longispinosus Roger.
Fig.
10.
— L. curvispinosus Mayr.
• Fig.
11.
— L. curvispinosus subsp.
ambiguus Emery.
Fig.
12.
— L. curvispinosus subsp.
rugatulus Emery.
Fig.
13.
— L. curvispinosus subsp.
annectens subsp.
nov.
Fig.
14.
— L. Schmittii sp.
nov.
Fig.
15.
— L. nitens Emery.
Fig.
16.
— L. texanus sp.
nov.
Fig.
17.
— L. fricarinatus Emery.
(After Emery.)
Fig.
18.
— L. neomexicanus sp.
nov.
Fig 19.
— L. obturator sp.
nov.
Fig.
20.
— L. nevadensis sp.
nov.
Fig.
21.
— L. terrigena sp.
nov.
Fig.
22.
— L. Andrei Emery.
(After Emery.)
Fig.
23.
— L. (Dichothorax) Pergandei Emery.
23a node of petiole seen from behind.
Fig, 24.
— L. {Dichothorax) floridanus Emery.
24a node of petiole seen from beh'nd.
