THE JELLY-LIKE SECRETION OF THE FRUIT OF PELTANDRA UNDULATA Raf.
* BY IDA A. KELLER.
Having some time ago determined the origin of the thick coating of jelly investing the younger parts of Brasenia peltata, Pursh, 1 I was curious to seek the cause of a similiar secretion found in the fruit of Peltandra undulata Raf., a plant widely separated from the former so far as its natural relationship is concerned.
The stage of development which first attracted my attention to the voluminous secretion of this plant is represented in fig.
1, PI.
XII, where a, b, and e show three different views of the same plantlet.
Above may be seen the first leaf, I, thick, green and cotyledon-like.
Within this, and partly protruding beyond it, the second leaf, I. b.
The portion circumscribed by a rather wavy outline, /.
is the jellylike mass in question.
Roots are also beginning to emerge, as indicated by r. The question naturally arose, from what portion of the fruit does the jelly originate?
Is it produced from special glandular organs as in the case of Brasenia peltata Pursh, or is it the result of a metamorphosis of certain cells into this peculiar gelatinous mass without the intervention of glands?
Before proceeding to answer these questions I will briefly outline the, anatomy of the fruit of this plant.
The fruit of the members of the Aracese family is, as we are told, usually a berry.
It appears to me, however, that the most essential characteristic of this type of fruit, the well developed mesocarp, enclosing the seed as a fleshy mass, is here conspicuously reduced.
The whole mass of tissue representing the pericarp, consists of a few layers of cells, represented in fig.
2.
It has the appearance of a thin integument such as we find in a caryopsis or utricle rather than that of a pulpy envelope.
The material which I had at command was, as a rule, one, or rarely two-seeded.
Fig.
3 shows such a one-seeded fruit cut through lengthwise.
The spherical embryo is represented by e. ; below e. is an empty space, v. Be1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., March 28, 1893. tvveeu the seed and the pericarp is found a mass of jelly, which, it should he noted, is present before germination.
In my search for the origin of this jelly-like secretion, I observed that it adhered firmly to the seed-coat, and I was inclined to believe that possibly the latter might in some way give rise to this substance.
On examination I found no trace of glandular organs upon the episperm nor did the outer cells themselves indicate gelatinatiou.
I continued my search, however.
Fig.
2 sufficiently indicates that we find neither special glands nor metamorphosed cells in the portion of the pericarp represented in the drawing.
It represents almost any part of the pericarp, except that which I shall now describe.
My attention was next directed to the thickening, 11., fig.
3, which corresponds to the point of attachment of the fruit to the spadix.
This is brown in color and quite rugose.
On making sections I found that the wrinkles or folds are thickly heset with trichomes, shown in fig.
4.
They are more or less club shaped, of a brownish color, especially en mussc, and of a varying size.
In general appearance there is a striking resemblance to the glandular hairs producing the gelatinous coating on the young leaves of Braserda peltata Pursh, and I have no doubt that the jelly-like secretion of the fruit of Peltandra undulata Raf.
owes its origin to those glandular trichomes situated in the basal thickening of the pericarp.
This view was confirmed by subsequent observations, especially during the process of germination.
The first indication of germination is probably the swelling of the jelly-like mass, thereby rupturing the pericarp, which is thrown otf, maintaining, however, its attachment to the secretion, wlfere this, according to the view just expressed, originates from it.
Peculiar striae may be observed in the jelly, all tending toward the point of attachment, fig.
6, n. That the formation of the secretion is not in any way connected with the development of the embryo, was proven conclusively upon opening imperfectfruits, fig.
7, /./'., in which the ovules were either abortive or not fertilized, there being no embryo and the whole cavity being completely filled with jelly.
The function of producing the jelly must therefore devolve upon the pericarp, and of this the only portion which seems adapted to this kind of activity is the thickening at the base, above referred to.
In my paper on Braserda peltata Pursh I have called attention to the fact that the great quantity of water which is the principal 1895.]
NATUKAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADEXjPHIA.
289 constituent of every gelatinous secretion, is in this particular ease, in all probability, derived directly from the water surrounding the plant than that which is carried through the tissue of the plant to the glandular organs.
The secretion in the fruit of Peltandra undulata Waf.
is not in close contact with an aqueous medium, and it appears to me a significant fact that the tissue upon which the glands of this plant are supported is traversed by spiral vessels, being thereby well supplied with water-conducting tissue.
The water in this case must of necessity be carried through the plant to the interior of the fruit.
A few more observations deserve a passing notice: When I collected my material for study October 7, 1894, I observed that some of the fruits had left, the spadix while others still crowded anmnd it surrounded by the tough spathe.
About a dozen of the seeds I threw into a jar containing water.
Of these only three survived and germinated in March of this year.
Figs.
8 and 9 are drawings of seedlings as they appeared on April 15, and the plants continued to live until the beginning of May, although they had no soil to root in.
On April 18, of this year, Mr. MacElwee showed me a locality near Gray's Ferry Station where Peltandra grows.
Although the seeds which I had collected last year had germinated a month ago, we found that most of the seeds at this locality just barely showed the protruding tip of the first leaf, and some showed no siinis whatever of sprouting.
It cannot be said that the appearance of the jelly is invariably the first indication of activity in the seed, since I noticed repeatedly that the bud may appear while the secretion is still encased in the pericarp.
The plantlet represented in fig.
8, did not throw back the pericarp either during germination or afterward.
Some of the fruits were placed on very wet sand and in a few days there were signs of vigorous growth, fig.
10.
Others were thrown on water, and, although development took place, fig.
11, it did not seem as healthy as when the fruits were allowed to rest upon a solid, although thoroughly wet, substratum.
The difference may be appreciated on comparing figs.
10 and 11, and this difference became more marked later on.
So far I have not found any satisfactory explanation for the development of this peculiar jelly-like secretion in the fruits of Peltandra undulata Raf.
, its persistence during germination, and its disappearance afterwards.
It is probable that its function is protection, but the problem as to the special protection needed in this particular case, cau be best solved by observing the germination of the seed in its natural environment.
June 4.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-Presideut, in the Chair.
Thirty-seven persons present.
June 11.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
June 18.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fifty-four persons present.
June 25.
Rev.
Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
A paper entitled " Diptera of Florida, by C. W. Johnson; with additional descriptions of new genera and species," by D. W. Coquillett, was presented for publication.
The following was ordered to be printed : 21
