THE ORIGIN OF THE FORMS OF FLOWERS.
In my intercourse with intelligent and observing botanists, who frequently do not place their conclusions on record, I find a growing tendency to discredit views, till recently widely prevalent, that external conditions have any more than a feeble influence on the evolution of the forms of flowers.
Thought is in the direction that various degrees of internal energy seem rather the chief agents in effecting change.
Listening to some verbal remarks before the Botanical Club of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at Buffalo, New York, by Mr. David F. Day, I was struck by his point that irregular flowers were usually associated with the curving or twisting of the peduncle, while regular flowers and straight peduncles were usually closely related.
I saw this subsequently well illustrated in lilies.
In the class to which belong Lilium Philadelphicum and L. Catesbcei, the upright flowers are perfectly regular ; irregularity, in some of the floral parts, characterizing the nodding ones.
The nodding peduncles, after flowering, become erect, and in the seed-bearing stage the seed vessels are erect on perfectly straight peduncles in both classes.
It is evident from this fact that in the species with drooping flowers, the expansion of the perianth occurred before the uncoiling energy had been exhausted, and during a rhythmic rest.
It is further evident that the growth-waves prevailing in the development of the flower varied in intensity in different parts, and that varying forms must necessarily follow from these varying degrees of energy.
Unequal pressure by reason of the curve ought to be accountable for this inequality.
It is, however, evident that outside agencies could not have had much, if any, influence in the curving which results in irregularities of these lilies.
Some excellent illustrations are often seen where an erect flower occasionally occurs on a plant which generally has the pedicels more or less curved.
Some Gloxinias and other Gesneriaceous plants will readily recur to the intelligent observer.
Gesneria elongata, a South American species, popular in garden culture, often has these erect flowers.
In this case the flowers are perfectly regular, and of a different character in other respects from the normal ones.
During the past season I was able to add a new illustration to the list in Pentstemon barbatus.
In a large bed with several hundred flower stems, I collected some twenty erect flowers.
In the normal condition, the three lower segments constitute a lip, and are so tightly recurved that they press against the tube ; the upper two are erect, and form an upper lip.
But in the exceptional flowers noted, this is all changed.
The lobes of the corolla are equal, recurved, and pressed against the tube.
But the most remarkable change occurs in the fifth or barren stamen.
In the normal form this is so differently constructed from the other four that thoughtful observation has to be given before deciding that it is a stamen at all.
In these erect, regular flowers there is not the slightest difference between any of the stamens.
The fifth is the exact counterpart of the other four.
Each one of the five stamens are alternate with the five regular lobes, as they should be in any well-ordered regular flower.
Assuredly if a plant always had flowers like these, and only these flowers, it would not be a Pentstemon, but be made to constitute a wholly different genus, if it were not, indeed, referred to another natural order, for a two-lipped and more or less irregular corolla is regarded as a leading characteristic in Scrophulariacese.
We may say that nothing but a different degree of growth-energy, accelerating or retarding the spiral development, so that that which should have been left curved was advanced to (or left in) a straight condition, had anything to do with the remarkable change.
And then we may ask if such remarkably distinct forms can be produced on the same plant, and in an exceptional way, what is to prevent the plant from regularly exercising the same force, and thus making the irregular flower the exception ?
That this can be done is.shown in the case of the upright and nodding lilies already cited, though we have no evidence that a regular and irregular lily ever grew on the same plant, as here produced by a Pentstemon.
Examples might be found if carefully looked for.
That these vagaries, once brought into existence, have hereditary powers, is too well known to horticulturists to need more than a passing notice.
That they are not oftener the parents of a line of new species is probably owing to the fact that of the millions of seeds produced by a single plant, an extremely small percentage ever get the opportunity to grow and again develop to a seed-bearing condition.
There would be little chance among so many for these exceptional flowers of Pentstemon to perpetuate themselves.
Though it would seem that in this case environment, as it is generally understood, could have had little to do in developing an irregular to a regular flower, one may plead for life-energy as the chief factor in the production of form, and still leave considerable for environment to do.
One cannot well retain as erect a position when holding an umbrella against a driving storm, as if he were simply shading himself on a calm summer day ; and there must be some opposing elements or adverse circumstances capable of depressing life-energy as a mechanical force, and with this variation in degree, we may reasonably look for a change in form.
But granting all this it must be evident that life-energy, dependent on varying phases of nutrition, is the main power in deciding form.
SPINES IN THE CITRUS FAMILY.
The spines which often occur in members of the Aurantiacese or Citrus family are said to be axillary.
We are to understand by this that they are situated between the base of the leaf and the axis or stem ; but they are rather lateral than axillary.
Lateral spines are to be considered as of stipular origin, but stipular spines are usually in regular pairs, one on either side of the petiole.
A single lateral spine could scarcely be stipular.
Pondering over these anomalies with an orange tree before me, it was noted that the spines varied much in size and strength.
In many cases there were no attempts to form spines at the nodes.
In a few instances where spines were wanting, the axillary buds were pushing into growth, where a small point with an articulation might be noted on the bud scale.
In some cases there would be points on two separate bud scales.
With this suggestion a careful examination of the spines showed clearly that they were but strongly developed bud scales, .or portions of the calycine system.
I could trace no articulation as in the young state above noted, though the upper portion soon loses its vitality, while the major part of the spine remains green and active for a long time.
1897.]
175 Fig.
1.
Examining next some plants of Triphasic/, trifoliata which had wintered in the open air, I was pleased to find the leaf origin of these spines confirmed.
The articulation, which the leaves of most of the Citrus tribe have near the junction of petiole and lamina, is plainly seen in these spines (Fig.
1).
The part above the articulation is completely dead and brown as one might expect the lamina of a leaf to be — the more highly vitalized spine, the metamorphosed petiole, has resisted the frost killing severity of the winter.
We can thus see that the proper classification of the spine in the Citrus tribe is with such as are borne by thistles or similar plants, where the leafy bracts forming the involucres terminate in sharp rigid prolongations, which are not to be classed with spines equally with the sharp apices of Gleditschia, Madura and other specifically spiny species.
FLOWERS AND FLOWERING OF LAMIUM PURPUREUM.
One might suppose that a plant so widely spread over the world, and one that intrudes itself so persistently on every one's attention as Lamium purpureum, could not possibly have anything written about it that would be new to botanists.
But I am inclined to believe that plants have not a uniform behavior in every place, and possibly the behavior of species here may be different from that in the Old World.
These considerations make it the more important that the points I have noted in the plants growing on my grounds should be placed on record.
The species is very abundant as a weed on my grounds near Philadelphia.
It is the form with the smaller flowers and without the ring of hair below the throat that is described in the typical form of Europe.
It was originally introduced into my grounds from Germany.
It is probably the form which Willdenow regards as a good species, and describes as Lamium ineisum.
The hair that is found in the throat of L. purpureum is absent — there is but a single short tooth instead of two on the lower lip, and the pollen is orange instead of bright scarlet.
Dr. Bromfield notes " anthers with several tufts of stiff hairs or bristles on the face of each cell, and according to Mr. Leighton accompanied by 6-8 small, white, oval, tuberculate bodies at their base, but of which I can find no trace in my specimens, and presume they are, therefore, not constantly present."
These tubercles are only on one side of the anther, and are easily overlooked.
There are always six of these so far as I have examined them ; they are, however, easily overlooked as they are on one side only, as already noted.
They are very beautiful as seen under a lens, but I have been unable so far to trace their morphological significance.
A small gibbosity on the underside of the tube near the base seems to have been overlooked and may also throw some morphological light on the structure of the flower.
An interesting peculiarity is that soon after the ringent corolla opens it separates from the receptacle, the style disarticulating from the carpels at the same time and falling away with the corolla.
In most monopetalous flowers the pistil remains after the corolla fades, the corolla usually falling forward and over it.
There is rarely any articulation by which the style separates from the carpels as in this case, and as do the stamens in many flowers of other species.
This early fading of the flower and casting off of the pistil, indicates that the flower may have been fertilized before the opening of the lobes of the corolla.
An examination shows that this is really the case.
When the flower is fully expanded, the stamens are straight, bearing the anthers under the arched upper lip.
The anthers will usually be found destitute of pollen, while the longer lobe of the divided style will be found with an abundance of orange colored pollen at the apex.
It will further be noted that from the relative position of the forks of the style and the anthers, the pollen could not readily reach this portion of the style while in the fully expanded condition of the flower.
If we take a matured flower bud, just ready for expansion, and carefully cut away the upper lip, we find no stamens there at that stage.
They, as well as the style, are bent downward, grasped and held in place by the incurved lower lip.
Examining these unopened flowers in the early morning we find the anther cells have already opened, and the sharp stigmatic point of the lobe of the style in most cases is inserted in one of the anther openings and covered with pollen.
Between eight and nine o'clock in the morning the unopened buds unfold.
Slowly the incurved stamens and style straighten themselves, and rise to their final positions under the arched upper lip.
During this process the stigmatic lobes are brought into contact with the disrupted pollen sacs, and receive an additional supply of fertilizing material, as if nature was taking a double care in this instance that the flower should be self-fertilized.
The corolla at this stage seems firmly attached to the receptacle, but very soon afterward it falls at the slightest touch, indicating that fertilization has been perfectly accomplished.
An examination of the flowers at this stage will also show that the seeds are wholly mature, and we have to conclude from this examination alone that the fertilization was accomplished in the unopened flower.
CI«ISTOGAMY IN UMBELLIFERJE.
So far as I know no record has been made of cleistogamy in the Urnbelliferse.
In 1893 a plant of Cryptotcenia Canadensis in my garden indicated cleistogamy, but as the flowering period had advanced considerably, further observation was left for the present season.
Cleistogamy, as usually understood, perfects seeds when the generative organs are enclosed in the calyx only, no attempt at forming a corolla being made.
In this strict sense the Cryptotcenia would not be cleistogamous.
But the plant has two classes of flowers : one in which the stamens and corolla are highly developed, with the gynoecium abortive, the other with a highly developed gynoecium, stamens with comparatively short filaments, but with polliniferous anthers all enveloped in a corolla extremely fugacious, beneath which fertilization is accomplished before opening.
The fine anthers are pressed tightly against the stigma, accomplishing fertilization and inducing carpellary growth before the corolla has reached perfection.
When this period has been reached it falls at once, carrying along with it the stamens which have already performed their functions.
Though differing somewhat from the usual character of cleistogamy, the action is cleistogamic surely.
The corolla in the male flowers is more enduring than in the female flowers ; indeed, as a general rule, it ia only the male flowers that we notice in examining the plant.
It is extremely rare to find a female flower with an expanded corolla, as it falls very soon after opening, and it was this seeming absence of corollas in the first instance, yet with an abundance of fruit-bearing pedicels, that led to the suspicion of cleistogamy.
The numerous male flowers with even more perfect stamens that are more abundantly pollen-bearing than those in the seed-bearing flowers, with absolutely no function to perforin, present an anomaly, and yet it has a counterpart in the petal-bearing flowers of many cleistogamic species, which I have found rarely seed-producing, though it is customary to refer this class of flowers, in such cases, to an effort on the part of the species to secure an occasional cross.
It would rather seem that the true position of cleistogamy in the economy of nature is not yet well understood.
RHYTHMIC GROWTH IN PLANTS.
Though the principle that plant-growth is not continuous but rhythmic must have been long ago observed, 1 am not aware that any special importance has been attached to it, or of any detailed observations as to the time and manner of the rests and advances until my paper on the Compass Plant, Silphium laciniatum, appeared in the Proceedings of the Academy in 1870.
I believe it has been left wholly to me to show that rhythmic growth is an important factor in the evolution of form.
It is not even yet recognized as it deserves to be.
This consideration renders the recording of additional facts desirable.
Dr. Asa Gray, in the Synoptical Flora of North America, referring to the natural order Polernoniacese, says, " hypogynous disk generally manifest," and " remarkable among the hypogynous gamopetalous orders for the trimerous pistil, but in two or three species of Gilia dimerous."
" The corolla is not always perfectly regular, and the live stamens are very commonly unequal in length or insertion."
Of Phlox particularly he says, " most species with long filiform style, about equalling or surpassing the corolla tube, but some with short included style, perhaps but dimorphous ; but only in P. subulata have both forms been found in the same species."
Unless we remember the rhythmic character of growth, we get but a poor idea of the true nature of things by the terms Dr. Gray employs.
What do we learn of the disk by merely calling it by this name ; and what is a dimerous or a trimerous pistil ?
Why should the stamens and style be dimorphous, and what is dimorphism in this connection?
Before answering these questions, let us follow the development of the flowers in Phlox.
Early in the morning of September 1st, all the expanded blossoms of some heads of garden varieties of Phlox paniculata were plucked out so as to watch the behavior of the unexpanded flowers.
As I believe growth is modified by temperature it may be noted that it was cool for the season — 65° F. There was absolutely no growth in the corolla until 9 A. M. Up to this time the corolla was enjoying a rest, but then the lobes began to unfold, occupying about two hours to reach their normal salver shape form.
By opening the flowers at various times before 9 A. M. we note that the authers are not at rest ; they are regularly increasing in size.
By 9 A. M. they have reached their full development, and the cells burst and discharge the pollen simultaneously with the unfolding of the corolla lobes.
By now opening a flower-bud that is a day behind this one in development, we note that while the corolla with its attached stamens was growing, the style was at rest.
It evidently starts on its new rhythm of growth the evening before the full.
opening of the corolla, that is to say when the ultimate length of the latter has been reached, the style starts on its advance.
It does not quite reach its ultimate length when tbe anther cells discharge their pollen, but the appressed stigmas receive and retain the scattered pollen grains.
Returning now to the corolla, we find that after full expansion, at about 11 A. M., it continues without change the whole of the next day, withering and falling away on the third.
It" may be noted, however, that a very light touch causes disarticulation the second day, showing that fertilization has already been accomplished.
The lobes of the pistil do not diverge until the second day, but it is evident that fertilization is not dependent on the expansion of the lobes.
The pollen tubes act in advance of the expansion of the lobes.
That the morning was rather cool for the season may have been a reason why no insects visited the flowers till noon.
Humble bees were the first in the field, rifling the sweets by cutting the tubes of the corolla.
The honey bee soon followed, using the slits made by the humble bees, and during the afternoon several species of lepidoptera gathered the nectar by the legitimate entrance.
The nectar is secreted by the " hypogynous disk."
It is remarkable, however, that I could find no exudation on the first day of opening.
The flow seems to commence on the second day, and is most abundant when the flower is about to wither and long after the fertilization of the flower has been effected.
I have already placed this fact on record in connection with Lonicera and some other flowers.
It is probably a general fact, strangely overlooked in treatises showing the relation of the honeyed secretions to the agency of insects in the cross-fertilization of flowers.
So far as the fertilization of Phlox is concerned, every fact pointed to self-action.
Insects seem to have no agency whatever in the remarkably prolific results.
I have before had occasion to remark that abundant fertility in any plant is always a strong indication of self-fertilization.
The " dimorphism " referred to might properly be termed polymorphism.
Neither the stamens or pistils can be classed distinctly as long or short, but vary indefinitely.
In a white variety of Phlox pyramidalis I found the style usually about two-thirds the length of the tube.
The stamens too, are very variable even on the same plant.
At times only one stamen may be seen at the apex of the throat on a second-day fiower.
At other times there are three, simulating a three lobed style.
There are, however, always to be seen two shorter than the other three.
These two lower and shorter are usually near together, but often widely separated, and occasionally one anther will be sterile.
The reflecting observer will have no difficulty in referring all these variations to the varying degrees of rhythmic energy.
Whether a growth-rhythm flows gently or is arrested suddenly, decides the direction and degree of the rebounding energy, of which the forms of flowers are but the outward show.
Referring now to the hypogynous disk, or nectary as it might be fairly called, an examination when the seed capsule is nearly mature, shows it to be formed of a fine-toothed membrane, the lobes of which are opposite to the lobes of the calyx.
Under morphological law we should expect them to be alternate.
Separating, however, a nearly mature capsule from the " hypogynous disk," we see by the glass the imprint of five minute scales, alternate with the teeth of the disk ; this furnishes the key to the problem.
Between the calyx cycle and the corolla cycle, there are twccycles undeveloped, of which the " hypogynous disk" is the only manifestation.
Nectar-bearing glands are usually abortive organs.
We may now say that nature makes a Polemoniaceous flower simply through greater irregularity than usual in the intensity of its growth-waves.
When the calycine leaves had been reached the growth-waves were weak or they would have been bracts, and so weak that enough force could not be collected to develop the next cycle at all ; a partial recovery resulted only in the " hypogynous disk."
The corolla found a fairly steady wave, but all following were unsteady, as shown in the varying lengths of the organs.
There should have been five carpels and five lobes to the style, but as in the formation of the " hypogynous disk," the growth-waves were too weak.
They sometimes, however, reveal to us their unsteadiness.
I have frequently found but two carpels in some Phloxes, while once in Phlox Drwnmondii, I found four !
With the facts as brought out in the making by nature of Polemoniaceous flowers, we can see how with a little better regulation of the growth-energy other genera and species of plants might have been created which now have no existence.
The wholly suppressed series might have been a five-cleft or a gamosepalous calyx, — the "hypogynous disk," petals or a monopetalous corolla, and the present corolla, might have been another series of five stamens.
With these changes other combinations appear.
We may also see in a study of Polemoniaceous flowers how the varying rhythmic strength influences the whole form of the flower, as well as the development of its individual parts.
Dr. Gray says : "the corolla is not always perfectly regular."
The tube of the corolla is slightly curved in most species of Phlox.
Three longer stamens are always on the upper side of the curve, the two smaller are the lower ones.
When the seed vessels of Phlox paniculata are nearly mature, the calyx is two-lipped, the three upper corresponding to the upper or outward curve of the tube of the corolla.
We may say that it is the irregularity in the growth-waves resulting in organs of varying degress of development, that cause irregular flowers.
We have regular flowers when the growth-waves of a plant are all of a uniform intensity.
