PELLUCID DOTS IN SOME SPECIES OF HYPERICUM.
Many species of Hypericum present small black dots on the stems, leaves or other portions of the plant.
In H. corymbosum Muhl., the stem and lower leaves have these dots profusely scattered over the surface, those on the stem being generally somewhat elongated, after the manner of suber cells as usually seen in the young bark or epidermis of woody plants.
Examining the series of leaves in succession up the stem, we find the uppermost leaves nearly destitute of black dots, a few being found chiefly near the margin.
Starting again from below upward, we find that as we advance the pellucid dots, wholly absent in the lowermost leaves, begin to be comparatively scarce near the midrib.
As they come into existence, the black dots disappear.
The pellucid dots increase in numbers with each series of leaves — the black dots seem to give up the ground to the pellucid ones — till, when the much reduced leaves beneath the 13 flower are reached, scarcely any but the pellucid dots are found.
They reappear again in numbers on the petals.
It is singular that though there is an evident correspondence in the increase of pellucid dots and the decrease of the black dots, no genetic relationship can be discovered.
In no instance was there any evidence of a transmutation of a black dot to a pellucid one.
The dotted structure of other species growing on my ground was therefore examined.
These were Hypericum perforatum, H. Buckleyi, H. Kahnianum of our country, and H. Androscemum, H. caly" cinum and H. Moserianum of the old world.
H. perforatum furnished the most interesting subject for comparison.
The lower leaves, given up wholly to black dots in H. corymbosum, had only pellucid dots, and in none of these were black dots numerous.
Indeed, it was only in the uppermost leaves that a few black dots were found, and these sparingly distributed near the outer edges.
On the petals also the black dots are sparingly found.
It is apparent from what has been stated in regard to H. corymbosum that the energy productive of the black dots is different in degree from that productive of pellucid dots.
We may further conclude that these varying degrees of growth-energy had but little to do with the differentiation of these two species.
One species could readily be transformed to the other as each degree of energy was in control.
In H. Kalmianum and H. Buckleyi pellucid dots are profuse.
No trace of black dots could be found.
From what has been already noted, they are not to be expected where the pellucid dots abound.
In the European H. Androscemum the whole surface is minutely pellucid-punctate.
The mid-rib and veins are also pellucid.
At various points along the lines of these veins are, however, small swellings, more or less orbicular, as if they had been originally pellucid dots, and that lines had been thrown out to connect the dots with each other.
In H. calycinum there are similar connections, and besides a few scattered pellucid dots ; but these are not round but pyriform, one end tapering into a narrow tail.
If a little more prolonged, we should have just such connections as we find in H. Androscemum.
In H. Moserianum, we find the surface profusely covered with dots, not very pellucid, apparent though they are when held up to a bright light.
Some of these are wholly individualized and isolated, but others have sent out a line as yet unconnected, but the great majority have had the lines connected, and have formed a mass of reticulated veinlets unequalled in any other species I have seen.
Turuing to Hyperium prolifieum I find many semi-pellucid dots in the petals, especially near the margin, and some of them elongated, and in a number of cases they have met others and formed an elongated pellucid vein.
I think these pellucid dots are the initial steps taken by the plant in the formation of veinlets and veins.
It cannot for an instant be conceived that nature first makes a skeleton leaf and then covers it with parenchymatous tissue.
These strengthening ribs must be constructed out of cell-tissue only as the organism needs them.
And this construction can only go on under a regularly arranged system.
There can be no theoretical reason against the view I have taken of the nature and office of these pellucid dots.
I think little has been written regarding the variable character of these dots.
The only author I have found is Bromfield, who was, in a measure, my early patron and preceptor in botanical study.
In Flora Vectensis, writing of H. perforatum, he takes occasion to note the difference in the character of the dots in various species, which, in some, take the form of anastomosing pellucid veins. "
I do not find," he concludes, " any notice taken of this character by any author I have consulted."
I have seen none since his work appeared in 1856.
HONEY GLANDS OF FLOWERS.
It is impossible to take up any subject connected with the behavior of plants without a thought of the wonderful labors of Darwin in the same line.
We owe him warmest gratitude for the direction he has trained us to folhpw.
But some of us believe that the great field of vision he opened up to us is broader than ever he himself suspected, and that many more behaviors of plants are to be seen and interpreted than it was given to him to behold and explain.
It is, moreover, clear that the a priori line on which he started must naturally bias judgment.
It is not in human nature to be free from such bias.
Feeling that every act and behavior of a plant must originate in a selfish effort for its own good, the doctrine of natural selection naturally followed.
The natural condition of life being that of continual war, every effort of a plant was to secure some advantage in this great struggle.
Whatever helped this view could not but be welcomed, even by one who was so unusually fair minded as Darwin.
Whatever did not accord with his premises, could not be considered as of much importance.
Some of us have 184 [1897. departed from the path of our great leader.
To us it seems that while selfishness is an undoubted condition of existence, self-sacrifice is equally a natural law.
It appears to be the higher development of the original condition — the raison <T etre why selfishness exists.
Facts which Mr. Darwin would treat lightly, we may be pardoned for desiring to see more clearly elaborated.
The honey glands in flowers have been, in Mr. Darwin's view, so closely related to the encouragement of insect visitors, that their production where they could have little reference to the fertilization of flowers is lightly treated.
He refers 1 to an observation of Karr that the bracteas of some orchids secrete nectar, that Fritz Muller has seen a similar behavior in the bract of Oncidium in Brazil, and that Mr. Rodgers had seen a similar secretion from the base of the flower-peduncles of Vanilla.
That he could have seen this frequently in the species of orchids under his own observation is probable.
He names Phaius as one of the genera in which he examined the flowers for nectar.
2 I am sure I have seen honey glands similarly situated in many orchids, but they are very evident in Phaius grandifolius, a common species under cultivation, and probably the one Mr. Darwin had under observation.
I have had before mefor a coupleof weeks past a Nepalese species not uncommon in gardens, Cymbidium aloeifolium, in which the copious supply of nectar from the base of the bract, or rather from the main stem at this point, attracts general attention.
It will be of interest to describe the development of the infloresence in detail.
The spike has sixteen flower buds on it.
The peduncles are at an acute angle with the main stem, and perfectly straight until the bud has reached its full size and is ready to expand.
When this stage is reached, the peduncle takes a horizontal position and then makes a twist curving upwardly, and the labellum, which up to this time had formed the upper portion of the perianth, becomes the lower.
Many days before this occurrence the nectar commences to ooze from the gland at the base of the bract.
Long before the opening of the floral segments the globule has reached its full dimensions of two or three 1 Fertilization of Orchids, Chap.
IX.
2 Ibid.
Chap.
V. lines in diameter.
It soon hardens on exposure to the atmosphere, and has a high degree of viscidity from its earliest appearance.
Considerable force must be exerted in expelling it from the tissues of the plant.
Mr. Darwin's explanation is that in these cases the excretion is for the sake of getting rid of superfluous matter during the chemical changes which go on in the tissues of plants.
But as starch is necessary for storage, and plants generally have no superfluity of the article, why should the plant labor to form that which, in this case, must be the wholly superfluous article of nectar.
To get over this difficulty Mr. Darwin had already suggested that nectar was in the earlier ages of plant life always superfluous.
That insect life at first had no knowledge of its existence or value, and that on discovering it, insects and flowers became gradually more correlated.
So far as we can now see these secretions render the plant no service whatever in the great battle of its life, and this Mr. Darwin frankly owns.
To him it is an act of excretion of useless matter.
To us who believe that individual life is not* wholly for itself, but that every act is of some use in the general economy of nature, the new field opened up is one of extreme interest.
Observations in this beautiful field are too limited to warrant any general deduction as to the purpose of these stem-bearing glands.
The object of this paper is to draw the attention of those who may have orchidaceous plants to a closer examination of their structure, and to encourage a record of such observations.
VARYING PHYLLOTAXIS IN THE ELM.
Calling, a few years ago, the attention, of Dr. John Macfarlane, then assistant botanical instructor in the University of Edinburgh, to a bed of one year old seedlings of Ulmus Americana and that many of them had opposite leaves, he further observed that each form had been so characterized from the earliest development of the plant.
They were either alternate or opposite from infancy, and had adhered strictly each to its separate character through the whole of the first year's growth.
This bed of one year seedlings probably contained ten thousand plants.
In different parts of this t long bed the numbers of each class varied.
In places about onethird were alternate leaved, in others the opposite leaves were much more numerous.
For the purposes of this paper it may be assumed that about half were of each class.
In another part of my grounds I had about one thousand two year old plants, transplanted the previous spring when one year old.
Interested in learning how long the opposite leaved individuals — for I assumed there must have been many of that character — would continue of that class, I found that all but nine had started on the opposite leaved plan from the commencement of the second season's or last spring's growth.
These nine continued to form opposite leaves on all the leading branches, but the secondaries which pushed out from the primaries during the summer, had alternate leaves.
One may say that by the third year all trace of the opposite leaved system will disappear.
It has been assumed in phyllotaxy that the underlying law in leaf-arrangement is to provide for the very best exposure to the light of the foliar organs.
That leaves must have light, and that leaf-arrangement must surely have some reference to this fact, needs no argument to support it.
But it must be obvious to an experienced observer that leaves are very far from being always arranged in the best manner t» this end.
One need never go far for an illustration that if advantageous exposure to light be all that is involved, the plan could be vastly improved.
There has always seemed to me fair ground for believing there must be a deeper undiscovered law, and I have been continually on the watch, without much success, for clues to this deeper mystery.
In the case of these elms, the pairs of leaves are decussate, every other pair being exactly superposed with those beneath.
Such an arrangement would not be thought the most favorable for the action of light.
On the other hand, the alternate distichous arrangement in these young plants, and measurably in the older ones, causes the leaves in many cases to have the leaf-blade vertical, or, where the nodes are not particularly distant, to have portions of the leaf-blade overlapping another leaf, in effect reducing considerably the available leaf surface.
One point of special interest is that the nine trees which carried over the opposite leaved arrangement through the second year are much weaker in growth than the others.
I think I might safely say that superior vigor of growth and the alternate arrangement of the leaves are correlative.
SPECIAL FEATURES IN A STUDY OF CORNUS STOLONIFERA MX.
Some interesting features for biological study are furnished by Coraus stolonifera of Michaux, Comas alba, or the " white-berried " Dogwood of many authors.
In northern regions, in southern Canada for instance, it flowers in June.
Under cultivation in eastern Pennsylvania, its flowering season is during the first weeks in May.
When the axillary buds of the past season push into growth, some of them seem more vigorous than others.
Strange to say these vigorous branches are suddenly arrested at the second node, and, instead of a continuous axillary growth, the cymose inflorescence follows.
The flowering is over by the first of June, and the white-berried fruit matures by the first of July.
But the weaker growths of the past season are not arrested at the secondary node, but make a continuous growth until the end of June, when the axial growth is also arrested and flowers follow as in the earlier instances.
These branches are flowering while the earlier ones are maturing seeds.
So suddenly is the axial growth force arrested, that the two axillary buds at the base of the axis, which in the condition of inflorescence becomes the common peduncle, have the growth energy communicated to them, and instead of remaining dormant to make side branchlets for next year, start to form branchlets now.
Some idea of the intensity of the growth force, and the suddenness with which the energy was diverted laterally, may be inferred from the fact that these axillary buds, so suddenly called into development, will elongate and form a pair of fully grown leaves by the time the blossoms in the cyme have become fully developed.
Except that the cyme, equally with its axis, is somewhat weaker than the earlier ones of the season, there is no material difference in the other portions of the inflorescence.
The axillary buds at the base of the earlier blooming cymes push into growth with as much vigor as those on the later blooming branches, and some of these terminate in inflorescence, the flowers blooming in August.
The facts furnish excellent illustrations of the influence of arrested or accelerated growth force in changing the character and habits of plants.
Another point I have taken occasion frequently to illustrate is one which I believe to be wholly my own : — that leaves by no means always originate at the node from which they seem to spring, but from some indefinite point in the axis below.
In this Comus the sudden arrestation of growth which determines the flowering conditions and the lateral divergence of the growth-energy* produces the union of a portion of the petiole with its axial growth resulting in one of the branches of the cyme.
In some cases the arrested leaf-blade will form a bristle-like appendage an inch in length, slightly expanding to a lamina at the apex.
The united portions of the cyme-branch and petiole can be readily traced downward towards the lower node.
The separation of the edges results in the usual square stem at this point.
It may be remarked here that one of the distinctions between Cornacese and Urnbelliferse is the absence of an involucre.
But here we find the tendency to dispute even this character with the Umbelliferous order.
The cases sometimes given as illustrating such encroachment are not valid, for the so-called involucre of Coruus florida results merely from a second growth of bud scales.
This occurs in many families of plants, as, for instance, Pavia, Carya, Fraxihus and other genera, especially in some hickories, where the rejuvenated bud scales are sometimes as highly colored as in the Dogwood, and go by the name of " Hickory-lilies."
The appressed hair of the leaves and young branches of Cornus stolonijera have been referred to as being " straight but fastened in the middle, and thus appear appressed."
But many will be noted as having but one arm, which is as much appressed as if it had been fastened at the middle.
It is evidently a branched hair.
The same general law of sudden arrestation has evidently extended to the hair.
The apical growth, suddenly arrested, has driven the energy laterally, resulting in a horizontal growth on either side, as in the formation of the inflorescence.
The tendency to abortion in many of the primordial parts, well noted in Cornacece, may be illustrated here by some further facts not hitherto specially noted.
Though but one seed is produced, two cells are seen in the transverse section of the carpel, and a third has been occasionally observed.
With a flower of four sepals, four petals and four stamens, we may reasonably assume the early existence of four carpels.
But the stigma is usually described as simple.
If, however, we examine it just as the flower is fading, we may note that it is really four-cleft, indicating certainly the fourcarpellary character of the ovarium.
Another illustration of the prevalence of abortion is in the small number of fruits which come to perfection in comparison with those which fail.
The flowers seem all perfect.
It is safe to say that in regard to seed-bearing nearly every flower is potential in all its parts.
Pollen and stigma are fully functionable.
Indeed there is scarcely a flower but is fertilized and seems to make a fair start toward maturity.
But the majority fall by the way.
Though the average number of flowers on a well-developed cyme may be one hundred and fifty, it is rare to find a dozen fruits mature.
Often there are none.
I have not been able to satisfy myself that the anthers discharge their pollen on the stigma before the expansion of the corolla, thus insuring self-fertilization beyond all chances, as I have shown to be the case in many other instances.
I have not found pollen in an unexpanded flower, nor any anther that was not covered with pollen in an expanded flower.
The discharge of pollen and expansion of the petals is probably simultaneous.
The stamens are longer than the style, and one may say, almost with certainty, that the flowers receive only their own pollen.
Facts might be adduced in support of the proposition that it was an instance of sterility from the lack of pollen from other flowers, but the weight of evidence will, I think, favor the conclusion that its failure is from abortion.
In other words, the sudden arrestation of the growth force disperses the energy into other channels, with sterility as the result.
The winter color of the past season's branches has attracted attention.
The rich reddish-brown has given it the popular name of " Red-twigged Dogwood."
The manner in which this red tinge is produced is plainly discernible.
I have shown in other papers that color in vegetation is mainly an incident in the struggle for life of the various parts of a plant.
If we cut off a branch from a tree, it dies without a struggle.
If a frost come early in the fall, the leaves blacken and take on no bright tinge.
But if we only partly detach a branch from the tree, or if, in the autumn, there is a struggle with physical forces before death finally assumes control, the leaves color.
All this I have fully elaborated elsewhere.
The same course is evident here.
On the young bark, a few white dots appear.
These are incipient cork cells.
For a while they are inactive.
As soon as they begin to develop, the epidermis turns white, and at once a light pink ring encircles the vesicle.
When rupture takes place, a pink line extends upward and downward, and from this pink line the reddish tinge becomes gradually diffused.
In a short time the whole of the epidermis, both of the young branch and of the petioles, has a reddish-purple tinge.
No one who will make a few observations during midsummer will fail to be convinced that the formation of cork cells is a destructive agency, and yet an agency of comparatively slow action ; that color is the result of this protracted struggle for life ; and that the peculiar action of the cork cells, varying as it does in almost all plants, each species having its own peculiar method of developing cork cells, fully accounts for the red color of the annual growths in Cornus stolonijera.
