THERMOTROPIC MOVEMENT OF THE LEAVES OF RHODODENDRON MAXIMUM L. BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D.
It is apparent from a iiuniber of recently published papers on the reactions of protoplasm and, in particular, of various sensitive plants to stimuli, that it will be necessary to reconstruct our views to a considerable extent upon the subject of vegetable irritability.
The movement of the chlorophyll granules in the cells of leaves, exposed to too bright sunlight ; the movement of tendrils in response to shocks, heat or the application of chemical substances, show us that protoplasm reacts in essentially the same manner, whatever plant is chosen for experimentation.
The writer is not aware that any observations have ever been recorded on the movement of the leaves of Rhododendron maximum, yet the movements of this plant are quite definite.
If observations upon this ericaceous shrub be made during cold weather (the recent zero weather affording fine opportunities for such study), it will be found that the leaves are all bent down closely against the stem, and are rolled inward tightly in a convolute manner, one edge slightly overlapping the other, so that the upper epidermis is alone presented to the action of the weather (fig.
1).
To assume this position, the petiole takes a sharp bend downward through an angle of about seventy degrees.
The lower side of the petiole is puckered into transverse folds, when the inrolled and hanging position of the leaves is assumed.
The acute apex as shown in one of the lower leaves (fig.
1) is slightly incurved.
The U-shaped bend of the petiole is more marked in the lower leaves than in the upper.
The leaves assume an extremely deep green color, of a brownish hue, and appear as if frozen.
Two objects seem to be served by the hanging position of the leaves accompanied by the folding of the lower surface of the blade, which is provided Avith stomata, or transpiration openings.
Firstly, the protection of the lower surface of the leaf, thus ensuring the conservation of the internal water of the plant.
When the soil is hard frozen and the days are bright and crisply cold, with a breeze stirring, the plant with broadly expanded leaves would transpire itself to death.
Kihlraan^ has clearly shown the action of a dry -wind in frosty weather on vegetation to be destructive in the extreme.
Secondly, the folding of the leaves and downward curvature facilitates the rapid shedding of snow and ice, which in the mountains where this plant grows cover the evergreen trees and bushes to a considerable extent.
During the recent zero weather, even in the most protected places where exposed to the bright sunlight, the drooping condition of the leaves was constantly maintained.
In the shade of one of the University buildings, the infolding was even more accentuated than in the sun.
as one would naturally expect, and in the mountains of Pennsylvania, in the shadow of the leafless trees and evergreen hemlocks, the cold rigor of the plant was very noticeable at a hundred yards' distance, viewed from the windows of a rapidly moving train.
If a branch of a plant with its leaves in the hanging position be carried into a warm room at about the temperature of 75°-80° F., in response to this thermal stimulus the leaves will begin to unfold and assume the diaheliotropic, or dorsiventral, position.
The following observations made upon the reactions to heat and cold stimuli show that the movements are made quite rapidly: Branch 1.
— Intervals of time given in minutes.
1.30 miu.
— Visible response to heat stimulus.
2.00 min.
— Unfolding of leaf began.
3.00 min.
— Leaf almost wholly unfolded and petiole erected through an angle of about 40°.
4.00 miu.
— Upper leaves become dorsiventral.
o.OO miu.
— Blade of leaves fully expanded, but the petiole not yet entirely straight.
Branch 2.
— This branch was held over a radiator.
It had been cut for twenty-four hours and placed out of doors in the cold.
The record is as follows: f-1 min.
— Response to stimulus.
1.30 min.
— Somewhat jerkv upward movement of the petiole apparent.
^ Kihlman, A. O. : Pflanzenbiologische Studieu aus Russisch-Lappland, Acta Soc.
pro Fauna et Flora fenuiea (1890).
Scliiiuper, A. F. W. : Pflinzea-geographie auf physiologischer Griindlage (1898), p. 183.
3.00 min.
— Leaves assume a nearly horizontal position and the blade unfurled.
4.00 min.
— Movement of one of the petioles still evident.
5.00 min.
— Leaves assume the normal position.
The main leader showed much quicker response than the laterals.
In removing this branch to the cold after it had assumed the normal position in the heated room, it was found that the response under the freezing temperature was not so rapid or marked as when the shoot was moved from out of doors into a heated atmosphere.
A slight response to the cold was evident in three minutes, when the petiole began to curve slightly and the blade to roll.
At the end of five minutes, the larger leaves were well turned down and rolled.
At the end of ten minutes, the large leaves of one of the shoots experimented upori had assumed the cold position.
Fig.
1.
— Branch in cold rigor position pliotograplied at one-miniite interval after being removed to a heated room.
The hanging and inrolled position of leaves shown.
Fig.
2.
— Branch photographed one minute after the first, showing that the movement of the leaves under the heat stimulus has beguu.
Fig.
3.
— Branch with fully expanded leaves after a five-minute interval.
All of the branches were stuck upright in pots filled with soil, and thus photographed.
Branch 3.
— 1 miu.— Respouse to thermal action.
3 niiu, — Nearly fully expanded.
5 min.
— Fully expanded.
Branch Jf.
— 1 min.
— Response to heat stimulus, 2 min.
—Snow which had been enclosed by the inrolled leaf dropped out.
In fig.
2, the leaves here are yet more fully expanded and the petiole has turned slightly upward, as a critical comparison of figs.
1 and 2 will demonstrate.
4 min.
— Leaves nearly fully expanded.
5 min.
— Leaves fairly expanded, but the petiole has not responded so quickly, as in the other experimental branches.
Fig.
3 illustrates a branch after it has assumed its normal dorsiveutral position.
A cross-section of the leaf shows the following arrangement of cells.
There is a thick cuticle developed on the upper surface.
Beneath this there are two rows of epidermal cells ; the upper row has a thick external wall of cellulose.
Beneath the epidermis, there are several well-defined layers of palisade cells, and then follow the loose parenchyma cells, more or less compacted together, succeeded by the lower epidei-mis provided with stomata and multicellular hairs, so disposed that they form a flat surface of interlocked branches as a protection against too rapid loss of internal water.
A striking feature of most of the cells, especially in the upper epidermis, palisade tissue and loose parenchyma tissue, is the intercellular communications, which are visible under ordinary treatment and powers as depressions in the cell-wall.
These are of importance as part of the mechanism of movement.
Research has shown that the movement in the leaves of Mimom pudica L., M. sensitiva L. , Oxalis bupleurifolla A. St. Hil.
, and other sensitives, is brought about by the extrusion of water from the pulvini into the contiguous stems and petioles, resulting in the contraction of the pulvini.
When the absorbing tissue of the pulvini have again taken up water, and become tense and firm, they will react again to new stimuli.
The study of the cell structure of the leaf of Rhododeudro)i maxiniimi L. leads the writer to believe that the transference of liquid from cell to cell, resulting in the alternate rigidity of the upper and lower portions of the petiole, has a very considerable bearing upon the resulting movements.
The movements are due to the gradual passage of sap through the contractile protoplasmic sac of each cell into the intercellular spaces, or they in all probability are due to the movement of the liquid from cell to cell by means of the protoplasmic bridges, so that one part of the leaf becomes highly turgescent and the other part more or less flaccid.
Cold weathei*, therefore, sets the liquids in motion toward the upper side of the petiole and leaf.
The result of this motion of sap would be the downward flexure of the leaf-stalk and the inward rolling of the leaf.
When any branch with hanging leaves is brought into a heated room the liquid is again conveyed to the cells lying near the lower surface and the blade and petiole right themselves.
That there is some movement of cell-sap is evident on watching the change of color of the leaves after they are brought indoors.
In the cold they are of a blackish green color, but on full expansion they assume a brighter green, which becomes lighter as the temperature of the surrounding air rises.
Turgidity is then the main factor in the mechanism of these movements ; its mechanical importance is further strikingly illustrated by the great rigidity of the turgid members, and by the great force, equivalent in parts of some plants to twenty times the atmospheric pressure, which they develop in ojjposition to external resistance, as when the roots of trees cause the splitting of walls or pavements.
Although one essential factor in turgidity is the purely physical osmotic activity of substances in the cell-sap, it must not be forgotten that it also depends upon the resistance offered by the protoplasm to filtration under pressure ; so that the maintenance of turgidity is after all a vital act.
The maintenance of turgidity appears, in fact, to depend upon a certain state of molecular aggregation of the protoplasm lining the cellwall, in which it offers resistance to the escape of the cell sap; whereas in the flaccid condition the state of molecular aggregation of the protoplasm is such that it readily permits the escape of cell-sap, under the elastic pressure of the cell-wall, either into the intercellular spaces or through the protoplasmic bridges into adjoining cells, which thus become more turgid.
That evergreen plants, sucli as Rhododendron maxiinmn, have an immense advantage in the struggle for existence goes without saying.
The fact that a plant can transpire, can metabolize food, can respire and conduct the elaborated material during the cold of Avinter is of very considerable biological significance.
Other trees and shrubs are practically dormant during the cold of the winter months.
They must develop and vegetate during the warmer months of the year, while Rhododendron maximum is ready, as our experiments go to prove, to avail itself of all the passing atmospheric and meteorological conditions, whether of winter or summer, which are favorable to its groAvth.
1899.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
225 May 2.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Eighty-three persons present.
An adjourned meeting, the special business being the continued consideration of the revised code of By-Laws.
May 9.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Sixty persons present.
A paper entitled " The Voles collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in Central Asia," by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., was presented for publication.
The death of Henry Wheleu, a member, was announced.
The consideration of the revised code of Bv-Laws was concluded.
May IG.
Mr. ApvThuPv Erwin Brown in the Chair.
Sixteen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : " Neuropterous Insects c )llected by Dr. A Donaldson Smith in Northeastern Africa," by Philip P. Calv^ert. "
Parallelism in Structure between Certain Genera of Odouata from the Old and the New World," by Philip P. Calvert. "
West Indian Eulimidse," by E. G. Vanatta.
The death of Franz Hitter von Hauer, a correspondent, was announced.
May 23.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M D., in the Chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 15 " A New Australian Eulinia," by Henry A. Pilsbry. "
Descriptions of Two New Gray Foxes, " byGerritS.
Miller, Jr. " Some Notes on Coccidse," by T. D. A. Cockerell.
The deaths of xilexander Biddle, a member, and of Mariano Barcena and Sylvanus Hanley, correspondents, were announced.
Relations of the Land Molhiscan Fauna of SouUi America.
— Mr. H. A. PiLSBRY spoke of the extrinsic relations of the land molhiscan fauna of South America, recounting and commenting upon the various theories advanced to account for the relations existing between the South American, African and AustraloZealandic faunas.
The evidence of former Austral land connecting South America with Australasia derived from a study of the Bulimulidce, the Macroogona, etc., was detailed The speaker gave his reasons for preferring the hypothesis of a former extension of Antarctic land to that of a South Pacific continent, as advocated by Prof. Huttou^ and some others.
He claimed that the present fauna of southern Polynesia was not consistent with Hutton's supposition that these islands had been submerged and thus their fauna destroyed on the sinking of the supposed Pacific continent entirely below the sea, the present " islands being merely outgrowths on its submerged back."
Some Polynesian groups, such as Partula, belong to very primitive and therefore ancient groups, unknown in any other area, and indicating great antiquity for the Polynesian archipelagoes.
'^ Neither is the present fauna of Polynesia consistent with the hypothesis that these islands are unsubmerged remnants of a Pacific continent.
The enigmatic relations of the fresh-water fishes, snails, and the terrestrial Streptaxidce of tropical South x'Vmerica with the African fauna were discussed.
The speaker considered the neotropical region of Wallace to be composite, the Antillean and southern Mexican area representing a tract independent from North and South America in INIesozoie and perhaps earlier time, on which the faunal problems had been independently worked out.
Various questions bearing on the communication were discussed by Dr. Calvert, Prof, Cockerell and Dr. Sharp.
^ See Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
New South Wales, 1896, p. 36, for an able paper advocating Prof. Mutton's views.
'■' Pai'tula, like the allied AchatincUa of the Hawaiian group, has a bottleshaped kidney with direct, not reflexed,' ureter, as in Limnma.
These forms have no relations with the Buliinulidm and Achatinidce, with which conchologists associate them, hut lie at the base of the terrestrial pnhnonate tree.
1899.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
227 May 30.
Mr. Charles ]Morris in the Chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The death of Charles Brongniart, a correspondent, was announced.
William T. Shoemaker, jM.D., was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : NEUROPTEROTJS INSECTS COLLECTED BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN NORTHEASTERN AFRICA.
BY PHILIP P. CALVERT, PH.D. Dr. A. Doualdsou Smitli, of Philadelphia, in his expedition through Somalilaud and Gallalaud to Lake Kudolph, collected some Neuroptera which he presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia These, some twentyseven specimens, embrace thirteen species of Odonata, three of Planipennia, and one Termite; among them are two new species and one new genus of Odonata.
This fact, together with the very slight information hitherto existing on the fauna of the region, justifies the publication of the present paper.
Dr. Smith has published a narrative^ of his journey, accompanied by excellent maps, and since his Neuroptera are individually labelled and dated, it is possible, by reference to his book, to determine exactly the geographical positions and the elevations of the localities whence his specimens came.
The care thus taken to record precise information deserves special mention, since not all recent travellers, in Africa or elsewhere, have been so painstaking.
Dr. Smith left Berbera, on the Gulf of Aden, July 10, 1894 ; reached Lake Rudolph in July, 1895; thence turned southeastwardly to the Tana river and Lamu on the Indian Ocean, at which latter he arrived about October 26, 1895.
His Neuroptera were collected at the following places: Berbera, on the Gulf of Aden, Onychogomphus sp., Hemianax ephijijjigei; Croeothemis erythrcea, Orthetrum brachiale and 0.
Sabina, July 4 and 5, 1894; Lafarok (map) or Lafarug (text, p. 16), about thirty miles to the southwest of Berbera, Croeotheynii erythrcea, July 13, 1894; The Hand, a plateau with an elevation of 3,000 feet and more, ' Through Uakno^n Africia Countries.
By A. Donaldson Smith.
Elward Arnold, London and New York, 1897. lying between 8° and 10° N. and 48° and 46° E., Palpares sp.
No.
2, July 24, 1894. "
Lanimo, Aug. 12, 1894," on Palpares sp.
No.
1, is, I suppose, Tug Lummo, of page 28, Tug Lomo of the map, sheet 1. "
Tug " is the Somali name for the sandy bed of a stream (p. 16).
Dr. Smith crossed Tug Lammo in approximately 42° 41' 40" E. , 7° 45' N. Stony brook, a tributary of the Erer river, mentioned by Dr. Smith on p. 32, lies in 42° 7' E., 7° 35' N. Its elevation at two points visited August 16 and 18 is respectively 3,350 and 2,650 feet (see map).
Trithemis ardens and Psetidomacromia Donaldsoni, August 17, 1894. "
Smith river, Sept. 11, 1894," attached to a Palp)6pleura Portia, I cannot find mentioned in the text or on the map.
The latter shows Dr. Smith to have been at Koko, 41° 52' E., 7° 33' N. , 3, 870 feet elevation, on that date.
Sheikh Husein (p. 43), 7° 43' 32" N., 40° 44' 30" E., elevation 5,020 feet, Enallagma sp., Pantala jiavescens, Hemistigmoides deceptor^ Sympetrum Fonscolombii, late September and early October, 1894.
Walenso, a peak, 8,420 feet high, of the Gillette mountains, 40° 47' K, 7° 35' 33" N., Orthdrum contractwn, dated October 26, 1894, although by the map Dr. Smith was nearest this peak on October 15, while on October 26 he was fifty miles farther south.
Boran country, Palpares sp.. No.
3, is merely dated April 8, 1895, at which time Dr. Smith was in the Boran country, near Higo, 4,480 feet elevation, 38° 30' E., 4° 27' N., and on that day had the severe fight with the natives which he describes on pages 195 et seq.
No Neuroptera of later date are included in the collection.
The previous literature on the Odonata of this region is a paper by Mr. Kirby,^ recording six species (three identical with some of the present collection) from Dobar in the Goolis mountains and Bichen in Somahland, while the writer has listed^ seven species from the Tana river.
^ On some Dragon flies obtained l)y Mr. and Mrs. Lort Phillips in Somaliland.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1896, pp.
521-523.
^ Notes on the Odonata from East Africa, collected by the Chanler Expedition.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., xviii, pp.
143-1-15, 1895 (1896).
ODONATA.
1.
Enallagma'?
sp.
One male from Sheikh Huseiu, September 29, 1894, has lost the last seven abdominal segments, so that a positive identification is at present impossible, but the remaining parts seem to indicate a relationship to such species as glaucum Burm.
(gaboneiixe Selys).
The following descriptive notes are added to permit of future identification.
Frous, genie, nasus, lips and rear of head pale green; rhinarium pale brown, vertex black from eye to eye, the site of the usual postocular spots is green confluent with the same color of the rear of the head.
Prothorax green on either side, and a middorsal black baud half as wide as the protljorax itself.
Thorax j^ale green, a middorsal and a humeral stripe black, the latter half as wide as the pale antehumeral stripe, the former twice as wide as the j)ale antehumeral stripe; a short, narrow, black stripe at the upper end of the second lateral suture.
Femora pale green with an external (superior) black stripe.
Tibia} and tarsi yellowish, the former with an external (anterior) lilack line in their proximal halves.
Abdomen pale bluish-green, an uninterrupted middorsal black stripe on 1-3, widened and then suddenly narrowed before the apex of 2, narrowed at the base of 3.
Wings with the inferior sector of the triangle arising at least as far in front of the submedian cross-vein as the latter is long, quadrilateral with its uf>per side onethird as long as the lower side on the front wings, one-half on the hind wings, three antenodal cells, eleven postnodals on the front wings, ten on the hind wings, nodal sector arising near the fifth postnodal, ultranodal sector at the eighth.
Pterostigma surmounting less than one cell ; on the front wings black, with the lower and outer sides nearly equal; on the hind wings smaller, ochre, with the outer side distinctly longer than the lower.
Length of head, thorax and first three abdominal segments 12.5 mm., hind wing 19 mm.
The difterence in the pterostigmata of the front and hind wings suggests Isehnura, but I notice something similar, although less marked, in a male of glaucum Burm.
{gahonense Selys).
Au ajipareutly teneral female from Sheikh Huseiu, October 16, 1894, is probably of the same species as the above-described male; the last four and a half segments are wanting, and the specimen is ■otherwise in poor condition.
The pale green of the male is replaced by pale luteous throughout.
The black on the prothorax is but faintly indicated.
The black humeral stripe is but a line, the middorsal stripe is narrower, so that it is hardly wider than the pale antehumeral, and it is bisected lengthwise by the middorsal carina being luteous.
The two legs which remain (a first and a second) are pale yellowish.
The left front wing has twelve postnodals, the ultranodal sector rises at the ninth postnodal on all Avings except the left hind.
The pterostigma is very pale luteous on all wings, slightly smaller on the hind than on the front.
Length of head, thorax and first five abdominal segments 23 mm , hind wing 19 mm.
2.
Onychogomphus sp.
One female, Berbera, July 5, 1894.
The females, at least of such East African species of OnychogompJnis as Genei, Harjeni, pumilio, Costce, obliferatus and lacudris, are difficult to identify from the descriptions in the absence of any specimens of this group.
It seems possible that some of the differ•ences indicated as specific may be due to age and to imperfect knowledge owing to the relatively few individuals examined.
This being the case, I think it likely that this female from Berbera may be one of the species already described, in spite of the fact that it differs more or less from the descriptions.
I prefer, therefore, not to give it any specific name, but to add notes Avhich may facilitate its future identification.
Face and lips very pale yellowish, perhaps somewhat greenish in life, unmarked with black.
Upper surface of frons pale yellow with a narrow basal brown line at the base of the vertex, and a group of 10-12 black denticles on either side at its front margin.
Vertex yellowish, ocelli and the area between them and the antennse (except the first joint) blackish.
Occiput luteous, its hiud margin armed with 16 black denticles.
Prothorax luteous.
Thorax pale greenish -yellow, dorsum almost immaculate except for the trace of a pale brown antehumeral stripe ; the humeral and the second lateral suture each with a complete brown stripe and a short brown stripe on the site of the first lateral suture from the metastigma downward, where it joins that of the first lateral suture.
Legs pale green, femora with a superior pale brown stripe, first and second tibite with one (anterior) brown line, third tibiae with two (anterior and posterior) tarsi brownish.
Thes pines on all parts of the legs blackish.
Abdomen greenish yellow, a middorsal brown line on the basal third of 3-6, the articulations and the supplementary transverse carina (or suture) of 2-7 blackish, an inferior brown spot on either side of 3-6 in front of the supplementary carina and more or less confluent with it, an inferior apical brown stripe on either side of 2-7 which reaches forward to the supplementary carina on 2-4, a double middorsal apical brown spot on 5-7, a brown stripe on either sidre of 8 meeting its fellow of the opposite side both at base and at apex, narrow transverse basal and apical brown stripes on 9.
Eighth and ninth abdominal segments not at all dilated.
Vulvar lamina brown, its emargination subquadrate.
Appendages as long as 9, twice as long as 10, straight, slender, tapering, luteous, apical sixth brown.
Eleventh segment (" anal tubercle ") a little longer than 10, when viewed from above luteous.
AVings: reticulation mostly black or dark brown, except the yellow costa.
Front wings with 12 (right), 13 (left) antenodals, 8 postnodals.
Hind wings with 10 antenodals, 8postnodals.
First and fifth antenodals thicker.
No basal subcostal cross-veins.
Pterostlgma pale yellow enclosed by thickened veins, surmounting 4-5 cells on the different wings.
Membranule small, white.
Abdomen 32 mm., its appendages 1.5 mm., hind wing 27, pterostlgma 3.5.
This female seems to have too much black on the abdomen to be Genei, Costce., or Hageni, or perhaps even lacustris, and in this and other respects seems to resemble ohliteralus, but this last has the pterostigma black.
Fumilio is smaller and is diflSerently proportioned in some of its parts.
In addition to the older literature, Mr, McLachlan's paper in the Entomologist Monthly Magazine for July, 1897, is to be consulted.
3.
Hemianax ephippiger Burm.
One female, Berbera, July 4, 1894.
4.
Pantala flavescens Fabr.
One female, Sheikh Husein, October 9, 1894.
5.
Palpopleura Portia Brury.
One male, "Smith river, Sept. 11, 1894, F. G." [= Fred.
Gillette ?]
is nearest Portia, but the dark brown coloring on the front wings does not reach the hind margin at any point, instead of occupying the entire width of the wang in its basal fourth, as in Drury's figure.
6.
Trithemis ardens Geistsecker.
Gerst , Mitt.
Naturh.
Mus.
Hamburg, ix, p. 5, 1891.
One male.
Stony brook, August 17, 1894.
In this individual there are, on the front wings, four posttriangular cells, then three rows to beyond the level of the nodus.
This species was originally described from Mbusini.
I possess also a male from Abyssinia, given me at the Konigliche Museum fur Naturkunde, which I compared w'ith the type of T. Maniois Brauer ( VerJid.
zoo/, bat.
Gesel.
Wien, xviii, p. 735, 1868, no description; see also de Borre, Repertoire Alphahetique, etc., p. 2G) " aus Setith.," and found the two to be identical.
Dr. Karsch (Berl.
Ent.
Zeit., xxviii, p. 24, 1893) has held ardens to be the same as sanguviolenta Burm., but they are quite distinct, as may be seen by comparing my descrijition (Travis.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, xxv, p. 90, 1898) of Burmeister's types with Gerstoecker's description; it may be added that the supplementary sector next below the subnodal is so strongly convex posteriorly that two rows of cells exist between it and the subnodal sector in arden-^, instead of one row as in sanguinolenta.
Mr. Kirby suggests {Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hid., 7, ii, p. 233, 1898) that "T. ardens Gerstsecker is, perhaps, a form of this species [i.e., T. lacustris Kirby] with blacker legs."
A. comparison of the original descriptions accompanying the two names shows the followiuo; differences : 234 [1899.
Lacustris Kirby.-i Ardens Gerst.
1.
Length of body 28 mm.
34-37 mm.
2.
Alar expanse ' 48 mm.
56 (about) mm.
Antenodals — 3.
Front wings 9 13 4.
Hind wings Yellowish color at base of wings extends — 6 9 5.
On front wings one-third of the to the triangle or length of the wing one row of cells beyond [i. e. , about one fourth of the wing length] .
6.
On hind wings nearly to the nodus f to f of the distance to the nodus.
7.
Pterostigma very i^ale yellow blackish.
The al)ove-quoted males are more like ardens than lacustris, although somewhat smaller and with slightly fewer anteuodals than the former.
Gerstpecker' s description being briefer than Mr. Kirby's, it is not possible to determine whether the following features, in which these two males from Stony brook and from Abyssinia differ from lacustris, also exist in the typical ardens : front wings Avith internal triangle three-celled (instead of two), hind wings with 8-12 postnodals, three or four posttriangular cells, then two rows for two cells, then three rows increasing.
It may be noted that Mr. Kirby (1898, L c.) cites lacmtris from Pretoria and Zoutpansberg in the Transvaal, from Wadelai and from Abyssinia.
7.
Croeothemis erythraea Brulle.
Synonym.
Orthetrum Lorti'K.ivhj, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond., 1890, p. 5-22 ; Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(7), ii, p. 233, 1898.
Three males, four females, Berbera, July 4 and 5, 1894, One male, Lafarok, July 13, 1894.
All eight individuals have the sectors of the triangle of the hind wings slightly separated at their origins, the maximum distance between them being about .2 mm.
Trans.
Zo51.
Spc.
London, xii, p. 329.
1889.
One of the three males from Berbera has the triangle of the hind wings crossed by one vein, and five rows of cells between the principal and nodal sectors at the level of the inner end of the pterostigma ; these are two of the characters given as distinguishing C. divisa Baumann {Ent.
Nach., xxiv, p. 342, 1898), a West African species, from erythnea.
On the other hand, the body is no more slender and the amount of yellow coloring at the base of the hind Avings no less than in the other two Berbera males, which have the triangle of the hind wings free, and one of which has five rows, the other four rows of cells between principal and nodal sectors at the level of the inner end of the pterostigma.
It seems very doubtful, therefore, that divisa is a distinct species.
It may here also be remarked that, on the page quoted from Baumann' s paper, it is stated that " ferrugaria Ramb., Calv.," is the female of erythnea.
I pointed out the differences between the two in Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mt(s., xviii, p. 127, 1896, and subsequently showed /errH<7rtrta to be a synonym of xaitguinolenta Burm.
(Trans.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, xxv, p. 9l"^ 1898).
8.
Pseudomacromia Donaldsoni u. sp.
(P).
X, fig.
5.)
One male, Stony brook, August 17, 1894.
(^.
— Dull bluish black except in those parts noted below.
Vertex and most of the frons metallic violet, the lateral and inferior margins of the latter pale brown.
Nasus blackish brown, darker in the middle.
Rhinarium pale olive.
Labrum shining black.
Labium yellow, median lobe and inner halves of the lateral lobes black.
Occiput black above, orange edged with black behind.
Rear of the eyes black and yellow.
Mesepisternum and metapleuron with some very indistinct, yellowish spots and stripes.
Posterior half of metasternum black with a pair of bright yellow spots close to the median line.
Coxse and trochanters obscure brownish.
Sides of first three abdominal segments pale broAvn, evidently much faded.
It seems quite likely that in life there was a longiludinal yellow or brown streak on each side of the dorsum of 3-7, uow^ almost completely faded.
Eyes meeting for a distance a little less than the antero -posterior middorsal dimension of the occiput.
Tip of the vertex barely concave in outline when viewed from in front.
Face clothed with black hairs, most numerous on frons and vertex.
Frons without carina, but the meeting of the two colors violet and brown nearly coincides with a more or less angular crest, best marked on the anterior surface.
Hind lobe of the prothorax much smaller than the middle lobe, its hind margin entire.
Sjoiues on all the femora directed toward the knee, 6 on the first, 9-12 on the second, 20-18 on the third; the spines on the third femora are shorter than the intervals separating them and noticeably shorter than the spines on the first or second femora; all these spines are of the antero-inferior (or outer) row, the postero-inferior row being composed of more numerous, slender hairs.
Third tibiffi with 12 antero-inferior (outer), 15 postero -inferior (inner) spines, longer than the intervals separating them.
Claws of all the tarsi with the tooth distinctly shorter than the tip of the nail itself.
Abdomen, viewed from above, widest at 2 and at 6, slightly narrower at 3 and at 10.
Genitalia of 2 quite prominent, especially the hamule which is entire, sickle -shaped, resembling, but more robust than, that of Macrotheiim.
Anterior lamina but little less prominent; viewed in profile, convex and polished in front, nearly plane behind; seen from behind its apical fifth is very distinctly bifid so as to show two tapering, rounded tips.
Genital lobe at least half shorter than the hamule, oblong, apex rounded.
Superior appendages as long as 9, of the usual Libelluline form, with an inferior row of 8-10 denticles.
Inferior appendage aliout oneseventh shorter, triangular, reaching beyond the denticles of the superiors.
Wings slightly smoky, milky at base to the arculus on the front wings, to the triangle on the hind wings.
Pterostigma dark brown.
Membrauule pale brown, white at extreme base.
Reticulation throughout blackish ; nodal sector distinctly waved ; two rows of cells between the subnodal sector and the next supplementary sector below; one submedian cross-vein; arculus between the first and second antenodals.
Front Avings: 14 (right), 13 (left) antenodals, the last not continuous; 9 (right), 10 (left) postuodals, the first three not continuous; discoidal triangle with one cross-vein, internal triangle of three cells, three posttriangular rows to beyond the level of the nodus increasing to 4-5 marginal cells.
Hind wings: 9 antenodals, 11 (right), 9 (left) postuodals, triangles free, its basal side a little nearer than the arculus, 3 posttriangular cells, then 2 rows for 2 to 3 cells, then three rows increasing to 13-14 marginal cells.
Total length 43 mm., abdomen 29, sup.
app.
2, third femur 6, hind wing 35, pterostigma 3.
This species is very similar to P. torrida Kirby ( Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Loncl, xii, p. 340, pi.
lii, f. 7, 1889), which, however, is larger, having tlie total length of the body 58 mm., the wing expanse 100 mm., the pterostigma 5 mm., no milky color at the wing bases (at least none is mentioned in the description or shown in the figure), and the membrauule white, while in spite of its larger size torrida has fewer antenodals and postuodals than Donaldso))i.
9.
Orthetrum contractum Rambur.
Libellula c.
Ranib., Nevr., p. 60, 184:3.
0.
>:.
Calvert, Trans.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, XXV, p. 98, 1898, for full references.
One male, Walenso, October 26, 1894.
Pterostigma 3 mm.
long.
The brownish yellow alongside of the membranule of the hind wings extends outward for a width of two cells.
Anterior lamina not as prominent as internal haraular branch.
Sectors of the triangle of the hind wings arising from the same point.
Variety ?
One male, Walenso, October 2(3, 1894.
Differs from the typeform in having but one row of cells throughout the entire area between the subnodal sector and the supplementary sector next below.
In three males from Kilimanjaro, by Dr. Abbott,' which I still have before me, this area consists of one row of cells throughout in six out of the twelve wings, while in the other six wings, one or more of which belong to each of the three individuals, there are one or two double cells inserted near the middle.
This variety is therefore hardly worthy of a distinctive name.
10.
Orthetrum brachiale Beauvois.
Libellula 6., Beauv., Ins.
Eecueil.
Afr.
Amer., p. 171, Neur , pi.
2, fig.
3, 1805.
0. b. Calvert, Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc, xxv, p. 97, 1898 (with bibliography and synonymy).
One male, Berbera, July 4, 1894; no pruinose coloring.
* Described by me in Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., xviii, p. 130, as 0. brachiale Beauvoi*, although I have since shown this name to be incorrectly applied here.
238 [1899.
Falls here by my key, I. c, 1898, p. 95.
I note, however, ou the side of the thorax, in addition to the stripes described for brachiale (= contractmn Kamb. )
ou p. 130, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., xviii, a blackish stripe running through the spiracle (metastigma), and a similar one on the metepimeron parallel to and behind the second lateral suture and confluent, at its lower end, Avith the blackish color along the lateroventral metathoracic carina ; neither of these stripes reaches to the base of the wings.
There are therefore six dark stripes on either side of the thorax, counting the antehumeral as one.
A similar number and arrangement of stripes exists in a male from West Africa, given me by Mr, McLachlan, but which from the black color of the autenodals and other cross-veins should be conti-actum ; this male is not at all pruinose, and its colors are in excellent preservation.
11.
Orthetrum Sabina Drury.
Lib.
S. Drury, 111.
Exot.
Ins., i, pi.
48, f. i, 1773.
One male (the last five abdominal segments missing) and one female, Berbera, July 4, 1894.
The race africana Selys (Aun.
Eitf.
Soc.
Belrj., xxxi, p. 22, 1887) is slated by him and by JNIr.
McLachlan (Entom.
Mo.
Mckj., 2, viii, p. 154, 1897) to differ from the typical Sabina in the following rejpects : Sabina Drury.
Africana Selys.
1.
Labrum pale brownish yellow black, barely margined with pale yellow.
2.
Sectors of the triangle in the hind widely separated at their origin arising from the same point.
Anterior lamina Avith a pencil of stiff without the hairs of of the male hairs ou either side Sabina type Habitat China, Malaysia, Moluccas, New Guinea, Vlti Is., India, Syria, Asia Cyprus, Mine Cameroon ( West Africa).
Mr. McLaclilau draws the conclusion (I. c. ), "the two forms are not only distinct as species, but will probably eventually be placed in two different genera. '
' It is consequently of interest to note that the present male from Berbera agrees with Sabiiia in characters Nos.
1 and 2, with africana in No.
3.
The distance between the origins of the two sectors of the triangle is about .5 mm., therefore the same as in Sahina ; no trace of the hairs exists on the anterior lamina, whose anterior surface, moreover, is yellow instead of blackish as in the Asiatic males of Sahina which I have examined.
The female from Berbera has the labrum pale yellowish, the sectors of the triangle separated at their origin by a distance of .2-.
3 mm., therefore less than in Sahina, the black line on the frons bordering the vertex and eyes is narrower than in Sahina, and the seventh abdominal segment has a large yellow spot on either side, at its middle, similar to the pair on 6.
12.
Sympetrum Fonscolombii Selys.
One male.
Sheikh Husein, September 29, 1894.
HEMISTIGMOIDES new genus.
(1) Vertex truncated at tip.
(2) Frons with its upper surface sloping downward and forward from the vertex meeting its anterior surface at an angle of about 115°, the line of junction of these two surfaces being marked by a well-defined carina, (5) no lateral or other carinse.
(4-) Eyes in contact for a distance nearly equal to the middorsal length of the occiput.
(5) Hind lobe of the prothorax of equal width with the middle lobe, (6) its hind margin Avith a shallow median concavity and thus being slightly bilobed.
(7) Abdomen shorter than the hind wing, thickest at the third segment, thence tapering gradually to the tip, triangular in crosssection; (6") segments 2, 3 and 4each with a distinct, supplementary, transverse carina.
(9) Femora armed with very short (except the last one to three) spines directed toward the knees; (10) tibiie with longer spines, those of the anterior row (thirteen) on the first tibia, of the posterior row on the second (twenty) and third (eighteen) tibia3 being more numerous than those of the posterior (eleven) and anterior (ii, 9-11, iii, 13) rows respectively; this arrangement of the tibial spines may be formulated thus: i a IS p 11, ii a 9-11 p 20, iii a 13 p 18; (11) tarsal nails with the usual inferior tooth acute, much shorter thau the tip of the nail itself.
All wings: (13) arculus between the first and the second antenodals, (13) one submedian cross-vein, (i^) nodal sector very slightly waved, (15) at least some double celjs between the subnodal sector and the supplementaiy sector next below, (16) one to three cross-veins between the median vein and the principal sector from the origin of the subuodal sector to the nodus, (17) discoidal triangles with one cross-vein.
Front wings: (18) last antenodal not continued to the median vein, (19) sectors of the arculus arising by a very short common stalk equal in length to the lower division of the arculus (*.
e., that part of the arculus from the origin of the stalk to the submedian vein), (20) one hypertrigonal, (21) triangle with its basal side twice as long as its anterior side, (22) internal triangle of three cells, (23) four posttriangular cells, then three rows to the level of the last antenodal, thence increasing, (24-) submedian space reaching to the level of the fourth antenodal.
Hind wings: (25) sectors of the arculus arising by a common stalk which is almost as long as the arculus, (26) no hypertrigonals, (27) apex of the triangle not reaching outward (distad) to the level of the triangle of the front wings (it reaches to the level of the fourth antenodal of the hind wings), (28) triangle with its basal side in prolongation of the arculus, (29) three posttriangular cells, then two rows to the level of separation of the median and principal sectors, thence increasing, (30) sectors of the triangle arising from the same point, (31) four subbasal sectors (Kirby) start from the postcostal vein.
(32) Genitalia of second abdominal segment of male not prominent, (33) hamule bifid at tip only, ■ The insect for which this genus is established has a great superficial resemblance to the African Hemidigma, Kirby, a fact Avhich has suggested the name here proposed.
From Hemistigma, Hemistigmoides differs by the characters above numbered 1, 2, 5, 8, 15 (except in one wing out of twenty-four wings of Hemistigma studied for this purpose), 17 (for the hind wings), 19 and 27.
It may be added here that two males, three females of Hemistigma affinis Ramb.
have the arculus at the second antenodal (compare ]S"o.
12 above), while one male of affinis has it shghtly nearer the base of the wing than the second anteuodal is.
Further, although Mr. Kirby states in his original characterization of Hemistigma (Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond., xii, p. 295, 1889) that the abdomen is "as long as the hind wings in the male," all three males of H. affinis just quoted have the abdomen shorter than the hind wing.
The genus Bradinopyga Kirby (Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond.
Zool., xxiv, p. 553, 1894), from Ceylon, is compared by its author to Hemistigma.
Hemistigmoides differs from Bradinopyga in the characters above numbered 5, 16, 17 (for the hind wings), 19, 20, 27 and 30.'
In Dr. Karsch's arrangement of the genera of the Libellulinae {Berl.
Ent.
Zeit, xxxiii, p. 356, 1890), Hemistigmoides would fall in the same section as Perithemis.
It differs from Perithemis, however, by the characters above numbered 16, 20, 21, 24-, 25 and 27.
13.
Hemistigmoides deceptor n. sp.
(PI.
X, fig.
4.)
One male, Sheikh Husein, September 29, 1894. cf.
— Vertex brown, its tip with a small metalHc dark green spot.
Upper surface of frons dark metallic blue-green, sides and anterior surface and the clypeus pale green, Labrum yellow, narrowly edged with black at the middle of the front margin.
Labium yellow, a median line on the middle lobe and the inner edges of the lateral lobes da»k brown.
Occiput brown.
Prothorax dull blackish, middle lobe Avilh a median twin spot and a small lateral spot — pale.
Thoracic dorsum obscurely mottled with green and brown.
Sides pale green with blackish brown stripes on the first (obsolete) and second lateral sutures, confluent below with the mostly dark pectus; this last has a pair of spots and behind them a transverse streak — all green— on the metasternum.
^ The structure of the prothorax of Bradinopyga is not mentioned by Mr. Kirby ; his description states that the sectors of the triansjle of the hind wings are separated at base, while his figure (?.
c, PI.
41, f. 3) of i>.
sf((/mata Kirby shows them arising from the same point.
Mr. Kirby has kindly informed me on both of these structures, by letter dated March 30, 1899, as follows: "In Bradinopiiga the sectors of the triangle are distinctly separated, but not for more than a comparatively short space, which varies.
In the type, the prothorax is not properly visible ; but in a second specimen it seems to be shaped something like this : [here a sketch] i. e., quadrilobate, the two central lo))es sloping down on the sides, and the hind one 7iot divided and considerably smaller."
16 Abdomen blackish, sides of 1-3 with some pale green, of 4-9 with a small indistinct yellowish -brown streak close to the lateral carinae.
Genitalia of 2 inconspicuous; anterior lamina very slightly developed, its margin entire; hamule bifid at the extreme tip only, the anterior (inner) branch apparently hooked; genital lobe a little more prominent than the hamule, a little longer than wide, its tip regularly rounded.
Terminal abdominal appendages black ; superiors about as long as 9 + 10, slender, thickest at four-fifths their length, with some inferior denticles, apex acute ; inferior appendage reaching to slightly beyond the thickest part of the superiors.
Legs black, the under surfaces of the first femora, and of the second femora at base, and most of the trochanters pale green.
Wings: venation, including the costa, mostly black, but the antenodals and the crossveins immediately below yellow.
Pterostigma dark brown with a yellow spot on its inner half which does not, however, reach to the inner (proximal) end of the pterostigma.
Membranule whitish.
Front wings: 12 antenodals, 7 postnodals, 6 marginal cells in the posttriangular field.
Area between costa and median vein from base to pterostigma, the submedian space, apex of the wing from the i^terostigma distad, and small areas above the hypertrigonal space and between the subnodal and principal sectors below the nodus — brownish yellow.
Subcostal space from base to sixth antenodal (with slight " overflows " into the costal space), a spot at the nodus from slightly beyond the last antenodal to the first postnodal and from the costa to the median vein, and the area between the sectoi's of the arculus from their origin to the level of the triangle — blackish.
Hind wings: 9 (R) 8 (L) antenodals, 9 (R) 8 (L) postnodals, 10 (R) 12 (L) marginal cells in the posttriangular field.
Subcostal (and adjoining part of costal) space to the third antenodal, the submedian space to beyond the crossvein, the tip of the wing from the distal end of the pterostigma — brownish yellow.
A black streak in the subcostal space from the base to the first antenodal.
Total length 33 mm., abdomen 21, front wing 28, its greatest width (at the nodus) 6; hind wing 26, its greatest width (at the fifth antenodal) 8; pterostigma 4, third tibia 4.5, superior appendages 1.75.
PLANIPENNIA.
Palpares sp.
No.
l. (Plate X, fig.
i.)
One male, Lammo (Lummo?
), August 12, 1894, is very close to tristis Hag., but differs (a) in having the subbasal spot on the hind wings, a spot which is lacking in tristis, and (6) in the form of the subbasal spot on the front wings.
In (a) it resembles var.
niansanus Kolbe (Deut.
Ost.
AJrika, iv, Netzfliigler, p, 9, 1898), but differs therefrom in the greater extent of the second and third bands (Querbinde) of the hind wings; it is also larger than niansanus.
Palpares sp.
No.
2.
(Plate X, fig.
2.)
One female, The Hand, July 24, 1894, resembles Kolbe' s figure (^.
c, f. 6) of nyicamis and McLachlau's description (Journ.
Linn.
JSoc.
ZooL, ix, p, 240, 1868) of sparsu.%.
Palpares sp.
No.
3.
(Plate X, fig.
3. )
One female [Boran country], April 8, 1895, related to Stuhlmanni Kolbe {I. c, p. 12 and f. 1), and resembling digitatus Gerstsecker {Mitth.
Ver.
Vorpomvi., xxv, p. 117, 1894) in the markings of the hind wings.
Not having access to any other specimens of Palpares, and being therefore unable to appreciate the amount of individual variation which may occur in this genus, I have thought it preferable to designate these species as above, rather than to attach names to them, probably incorrectly.
The accompanying plate, from photographs which I owe to the kindness of Dr. Henry Skinner, w'ill, it is hoped, enable students more favorably situated to exactly determine these Palpares.
TERMITINA.
Termes sp.
One soldier, without label.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE X.
Fig.
1.
Palpares sp.
No.
1.
Actual length of body 53 mm., of hind wing 50 mm.
Fig.
2.
Palpares sv).
No.
2.
Actual length of body 45 mm., of hind wung 47 mm.
Fig.
3.
Palpares sp.
No.
8.
Actual leogth of body 49 mm., of hind wiug 53 mm.
Fig.
4.
Hemistigmoides deceptor u. gen. et sp.
Actual length of body 33 mm.
, of hind wing 26 mm.
Fig.
5.
Pseudornacromia Donaldsoni n. sp.
Actual length of body 43 mm., of hind wing 35 mm.
All the figures, reduced in size, from photographs by Dr. Henry Skinner.
