THE PINE BARRENS OF NEW JERSEY.
BY C. F. SAUNDERS.
Lying between the New Jersey Southern Railroad and Barnegat Bay and north of Mullica river there is an area of about four hundred square miles of wilderness, traversed by no railroad and practically uninhabited.
This region, which is the very heart of the Pine Barrens of southern New Jersey, is so inaccessible that, so far as I can learn, it has been visited of late years by only an occasional botanist, although its outer borders, at such places as Atsion, Hammonton, Tuckerton, Whitings, AVoodmansie, and the Upper or West Plains, have been visited more frequently.
A forty-mile trip iu midsummer across the Pine Barrens has drawbacks enough to make even the most enthusiastic flower-lover think twice before entering upon it.
The sands are heavy, the flies and ticks and mosquitoes are numerous, the heat is excessive, springs are few and far between, and forest fires are apt to be at their devastating work in the very place to be visited.
However, we decided to chance these things, and on the evening of July 3, 1899, found ourselves landed at an old-fashioned hotel at Tuckerton, and bargaining with a resident South Jerseyman — half farmer, half sportsman, and altogether a pioneersman, to use his own expression — for a team to take us across to Atsion with board and lodging en route, and the next morning bright and early we were jogging along the road that leads from Tuckerton northwest toward the Lower Plains.
Mile after mile of oak and pine barrens were passed without sign of human habitation, and when five miles were registered we came to the spot which is marked upon the maps as Munyon Field.
Here, iu old times, had been a house, and a family had lived here, scratching some sort of a living from the sand and fattening hogs on the abundant mast which strewed the ground under the little chinquapin oaks.
Now no vestige of human occupation remains save a little clearing which is rapidly filling up with wildings from the surrounding forest, prominent among them that characteristic primrose of the Pine Barrens, Oenothera sinuata L. Two or three miles more of simihar wilderness and the forest growth thinned out and dwindled down to dwarf proportions as we emerged upon the rolling heathlike expanse of the East or Lower Plains.
These plains are about nine miles northsvest of Tuckerton and lie south of the East Branch of the Wading river.
The West or Upper Plains, which are reached most easily from Woodmansie, lie north of the said branch of the Wading river, and are of less extent than the Lower Plains.
The latter possess an area (according to Pinchot's report) of about 7,700 acres, or, roughly, five miles long by two and one-half miles across.
Xothing could be more restful to the eye than this rolling expanse of green plain melting away in every direction into the misty distance, the white sand gleaming out here and there like white caps on an emerald sea.
The flora appears to be identical with that of the Upper Plains, which have more than once been the objective point of visits by members of the Academy.
The luxuriant vines of the bearberry {Arctostaphylos uva-ursi) lay sprawling everywhere in the sun, their dry, astringent berries not yet tinged with the crimson that makes them so conspicuous in winter; the pyxie, trailing arbutus, hudsonia, laurel, tephrosia and leiophyllum were so abundant that the whole place must have been like a garden in the spring.
Corema Conradii is on the Lower Plains as well as on the Upper, a characteristic plant, growing in masses of sallow green.
On July 3 we found it in mature fruit — in fact, past its prime, so that the dry little drupes easily shattered otf after being transferred to the press.
The same growth of stunted scrub and blackjack oaks and pitch pine covers these Lower Plains as covers the Upper.
The average height of these curious little trees, which are abundantly fruited with acorns and cones, is hardly over three feet.
Occasionally a clump six feet high or so occurs, and we noted a sassafras or two about six feet high, but for considerable stretches one may walk with his knees in the tree tops.
Gifford Pinchot, in his account of the Plains, appended to the last annual report of the New Jersey State Geologist, calls attention to the fact that while the pine is chiefly of coppice growth — that is consisting of sprouts from stumps or from creeping branches of trees which have been killed back by tire — many of the small specimens which appear like sprouts will, if examined, be fouud to be in reality seedlings 'W'ith stems and branches creeping on the ground.
The prostrate seedlings, he states, exhibit a remarkable similarity to the forms assumed by trees near the timber line on high mountains, and it is a fair inference that the very harsh and exposed situations in which they grow on these South Jersey plains has had an effect analogous to that of great elevation.
About half-way across the Lower Plains, where the road dips down into a little hollow in the bosom of the hills, we found a good-sized pond with sphagnum border, and bearing on its waters several floating islands of sphagnum supporting luxuriant growths of Cassandra calyculata, Eriocaulon, sedges, sundews, etc.
This, our driver told us, was called Watering Place Pond, and was well known to old hunters, who in former days had killed many a deer on its margin.
Castalia odorata, Pogonia ophioglossoides, Limodonim tuberosum, Azalea viscofa, Drosera filifonnis and intermedia, Pohjgala NuttalUi and lutea, Proserpinaca pectinacea, Hypoxia erecta, Lysimachia strida were in bloom.
Carex Walteriana — a graceful southern sedge, which finds its northern limit in Ihe southern New Jersey Pine Barren swamps, luxuriated along with Woodwardia Virginica, in the shallow water of the pond's margin, and on the dryer banks the dwarf huckleberry, Gayhissacia dximosa — called by our driver, grouseberry — was abundant.
The fruit of the other Gaylussada common throughout this region — G. resinosa— the same authority invariably spoke of as hog huckleberries, or more familiarly " hoggies."
The swamp blueberry ( Vaccinium corymbosiua) also grew by this pond, its luscious fruit just maturing and tempting one to forget home and linger forever by the loaded bushes, as the lotos tempted the companions of old Ulysses.
After leaving the Plains, the old road wound now through dry sandy pine woods, bare of conspicuous flowers, save, j^erhaps, for the ever-present Melampyrum lincare and the yellow banners of Baptism tindoria — now through damp savanna lands, where we had as roadside companions the thread-leaved sundew's purple flowers, the orange heads of Pohjgala lutea, the magenta blossoms of the grass pink and the snake-mouth Pogonia.
Jjophiola Americana was just coming into blossom, and nothing could be more exquisite than the beauty of its white flannelly corymbs in a condition of half bud, half bloom.
The expanded blossoms of this characteristic plant of the damp barrens, though individually small, are wonderfully rich in color, with orange anthers and rich reddish-brown sepals crested with lines of golden wool.
In some places the bearberry formed a veritable carpet.
The gathering of this plant for shipment to the cities, where it has been more or less extensively employed in medicine, used to be a considerable industry in southern New Jersey.
A reminiscence of this oldtime trade still lingers in one of the common names of the plant down there, viz.
, uvursy — the shop name of the bearberry being uva-ursi.
In a savanna through which we passed just before reaching the east branch of the Wading river we were greeted with the sight of Abama Americana in the height of bloom, studding the grass as thick as buttercups.
This beautiful little plant, which bears a spike of fragrant yellow blossoms, and is no less beautiful in fruit, when the whole plant, stem and capsules, is suffused with a vermilion glow, is interesting as being found nowhere else in the world except in the wet pine barrens of southern New Jersey.
In this same savanna we were delighted to find another most interesting plant, Tofieldia racemosa, a liliaceous herb covered with a rough, glutinous pubescence, that makes it anything but pleasant to handle.
This species is truly a southerner, and, though the books give its northern limit as southern New Jersey, is credited in Britten's Catalogue to only one locality in that State — namely, near Manchester.
There it is very scarce and not recently reported, so that our discovery of it would seem to be worthy of note.
Crossing the east branch of the Wading river, and passing through a cedar swamp which was still fragrant (July 4) with the perfume of the blossoms of Magnolia Virginiana, we came out upon some cultivated fields and a farmhouse — the first sign of human life that Ave had met with since leaving Tuckerton eight or nine hours before.
It was interesting to note the establishment here in this little cultivated spot in the wilderness, of such familiar weeds as the ox-eyed daisy, English plantain, sheep sorrel, rabbit'sfoot clover and Plantago aristata, as well as the white hoarhound, Marruhium vulgare.
A mile or so west of this place and at least four miles from the Plains, we came again upon Corema Conradii, this time growing in pine woods, though by no means so abundant as on the Plains.
That evening we pitched our camp on the banks of the Wading river, at a crossing called Allen's Bridge, and while our di-iver was engaged in preparing supper, we made a sortie across the river and, where the sphagnum was sprinkled with plants of Drosera filifonnis, with Lycopodium Caroliidanum growing hard by, we discovered Schizaea pusilla in fair abundance.
The plants were scarcely fully developed yet, many of them indeed just uncoiling.
A number of fertile fronds of the previous year still persisted, but brown and dead and with spore cases empty.
It may not be generally known that this little fern, as well as its relative, Lygodium pabnatum, is evergreen, at least so far as the sterile fronds are concerned, and a very good time to search for it is in mild midwinter, when, the snow being off the ground and the earth rather bare of green vegetation, the tiny corkscrev/ fronds are comparatively conspicuous.
Growing in the water along the shore of the river at Allen's Bridge, Juncus mUltaris was abundant — a stately rush, which is of especial interest as possessmg two sorts of leaves, one of the usual rushlike kind, and the other submerged, borne in dense fascicles, and developing threadlike, knotted blades a foot or more in length — in fact, one would l)e inclined to regard them as roots, instead of leaves.
Near here, also, Rhyncospora Torreyana was collected — a beak rush peculiar to the pine barren swamps of the coast between New Jersey and South Carolina, and one of rare beauty.
On the edge of a cedar swamp near Calico — a half-day's travel further west — we again found Schizaea pusilla at home, but sparingly, and growing in the same locality, like so many little blackheaded pins stuck in the sand, were plants of the tiny Utricularia cleistogama.
Not far from here we came upon the rarity of an inhabited house.
There was an old stone-lined well in the shady yard, and as we leaned on the curbing while the bucket was bringing us up a drink, we were greeted with a beautiful sight of scores of fern plants clinging in the cool damp crevices of the stones far down in the well.
Phegopteris Dryopteris, Asplenium filixfoemitia, Asplenium platyneuron, and one of the varieties of Dryopteris spinulosa were collected.
These are not at all Pine Barren species ; iud<!ed, Phegopteris Dryopteris is a typical mountain form, and as far as New Jersey is concerned, Brittou's Catalogue gives for it but two stations, both of which are in northern counties of the State ^ more than a hundred miles away.
How it and its companions happened to get in that old well in the heart of the Pine Barrens is an interesting mystery.
From Calico to Batsto, where y^e had planned to pass the night, our road (which, by the way, was no easy one to follow) led through " Old ^lartha."
This forlorn and desolate spot, a sort of Tadraor in the Avilderness, marks the scene of a former hive of industry — for here, in old times, stood and flourished an iron furnace, drawing its supplies of ore from the bogs close by, while the abundant pine forests on every side furnished a wealth of charcoal for fuel.
Now nothing remains but a heap o^ ruins where the furnace stood, and an occasional chimney stack where the houses of the operators had been.
A grove of catalpa trees and a wilderness of white poplar suckers helped to give an uncanny look to the place, and we were glad to be off^ again under the familiar shadows of the pitch pines and scrub oaks.
The road to Batsto is through a very barren stretch, and we found the botanizing poor.
From Batsto, where we passed the night, we took a northerly route through sandy pine barrens between the Atsion and Batsto rivers to Quaker Bridge, a spot classic in botanical annals as the fii'sjt-discovered station of Schizaea pimlla.
Here we built our last cahip-fire,^ and made a farewell tea of Solidago odora leaves, which turned out to be a rather palatable brew — if taken hot.
The beautiful greenbrier, Smilax laurifolia, another southerner which attains its Ultima Thule in the New Jersey pines, was noted here, while deep in the cedar swamp we found Abama Americana in bloom, though not nearly so abundant as we had seen it in the savanna near the Plains.
The stream at Quaker Bridge was quite a wild water -garden, with the white water lilies, the blue spires of Pontederia, the yellow helmets of the flowers of the bladderwort ( Utricularia fibrosa), and the showy red blossoms of Rhexia Virghiica, while here and there in the midst of the green grasses along the river, Sabbatia lanceolata would display its ample cymes of white bloom, like showers of stars half fallen.
From here to Atsion is four miles, and there Ave arrived in time for the evening train citywards.
Among the grasses gathered on this trip, and which were submitted to a close examination later on, were found specimens of Panicum which Mr. Nash describes as Panicum Glutei,^ in honor of W. N. Clute, my companion on this excursion.
^Bul.
Torrey Bot.
Club, Xov., 1899.
36 « LOWER CALIFORNIAN SPECIES OF U(ELOCENTKUM AND BERENDTIA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The Lower Californiau species now known of these genera are conlined to the plateaux of the middle portion of the peninsula.
^ Thus far none have been found in the mountainous region extending from La Paz southward.
Ccelocentrunv is rather widely distributed in Mexico, though none are known in the States immediately bordering upon the Gulf of California.
W. M. Gabb described Coeloeentrum irregular e^ from the high table-land?
cf the interior, especially about " Moleje " (Muleje), where it lives hidden under loose volcanic rocks.
This is on the east coast of the peninsula, a little below the twenty-seventh parallel.
Mons.
J. Mabille has more recently described two species belonging to this group, under the generic name Berendtia.
His i>.
Digueti* is costulate with sculptured interstices, or, in his words, " costellis lamellosls, obtusis, jndeherrime ornata ; interstitiis costellarum striis minidmimus, costellisqite arcuatis, sat regulariler di^positis, solum oculo armato perspicuis, viunita."
For the rest, it has 19-20 convex whorls, the embryonal 4 or 5 cancellated and beautifully granulose; the last whorl is solute, keeled at the insertion, and with an obtuse, short keel about the umbilical tract; aperture oval, angulate above; the columella is " contorto-arcuata, ^ J. G. Cooper, in the American Journal of Conchology, lY, 1868, p. 212, footnote, states that "Mr R. H. Stretch has recently brought from near Carson Valley, Nevada, hxt.
39°, fossils, or rather casts, closely resembling the Ilolospira J^ewcombiana and II.
irregularis Gabb, of Lo-ner California.
They occur, he says, in the same formation that contains Carinifcx," etc.
Nothing further is known on this topic.
* There is a genus Ca'locentrus in },lo\lusc& {Eno7np7ialid(e), ha&edn^n the Devonian Enomphalus Goldfussi d'Arch.
and the Tria^ic Cirrus Poli/phernus Lanbe Its date is unknown to me, but 1 have not seen it mentioned earlier than about 1882.
'^ Cylindrclla {Urocoptia) irregularis Gabb, American Journal of ConcJiolo'gy, III, p. 238, pi.
16, f. 4, 1867.
* Bulletin de la Societe Philomathique de Paris (8), VII, 1S95.
nd basin obscure denticulata " from the slight basal channel.
Ltsngth 30^-33, breadth 5 mm.
It is from the " Plateau de San Zavier, N. lat.
25°."
Probably this should be lat.
26°, as a Mission similarly named lies near this parallel.
B. minorina Mabille is presumably smaller, though no dimensions are given.
It is also costellate, with 4 embryonal whorls minutely sculptured with spirally descending lines, handsomely granulose.
The intercostal spaces of the rest of the shell ai'e smooth.
Whorls 17, with deep sutures.
The last whorl is angulate toward the suture, very obtusely keeled on the back, solute and a little descending.
The aperture is angulate above, ovate.
Other features are alluded to under the description of C. Gabbi, below.
It is from " Plateaux above the AiToya de la Purissima."
This is doubtless the Mission de la Purissima, above the twenty-sixth parallel of latitude, in •■■'*^ W. longitude 112°.
Upon examining Gabb's type lot of C. irreguiare it became obvious at once that two species ) were included therein: one (irregulare) with^ the ) general features of the mainland Coelocentrums, ) the other, represented by three specimens, with ) the last whorl free anteriorly and the aperture j shaped like that of Berendtia.
The latter may be described as follows : Coelocentrum minorinum var.
Gabbi n. v. Fig.
l. Shell very slender and lengthened, cylindrical below, tapering and attenuated above, retaining the apex perfect; thin, rather fragile, covered with a light brown cuticle; composed of 16|^-18|, .
.,,whorls, of which the initial one is globose, the ear■': lier 4^ form a cylindric or apically swollen por', tion ; increase in the diameter of the shell begiuninof with the fifth whorl and continuiuo: for about 6 whorls, the remaining whorls of about equal diameter; all whorls decidedly convex, separated by well-impressed sutures, the last somewhat more ^ lengthened, a little flattened peripherally, its latter portion becoming free (^Cylindrella-YikQ) , '^ the solute portion variable in length, somewhat descending, decidedly carinatecl above, obtusely angular at base, with a slight spiral groove withiu the margin of the iimbilical tract, the umbilicus pervious but small.
Sculpture : earliest 2^ whorls with close, fine, straight vertical riblets only, the next 2 whorls wiih the riblets cut into beads by spiral stride; following whorls with strong arcuate riblets separated by intervals of their own width, and about 62 in number on the next-to-the-last whorl.
Aperture irregularly ovate, decidedly oblique, its length contained about five and one-half times in that of the shell; peristome thin, moderately expanded throughout, the inner margin dilated and obtusely angular iu the middle ; columella slightly concave, a little excavated below.
Internal column rather slender, smooth, oblique and slightly gibbous below, less swollen within each Avhorl than in C. irregi'Jare.
Alt.
24.5, diam, of last whorl above aperture 4.5, longest axis of aperture 4.5 mm.
; diam.
of second whorl 1.7 mm.
Compared with C. irregulare Gabb, this form is somewhat more attenuated, with the latter part of the last whorl projectingfree, the aperture more oblique and of a wholly difl^ereut form, strongly resembling that of Berendtia Taylori.
The riblets are more slender and threadlike; finally the retention of the early whorls may be another difference, but too few specimens of either species are known to warrant insistence upon this chai-acter at present.
This form differs from C. Digiieii in being smaller, with fewer whorls, without sculpture between the riblets, and with scarcely any observable twist to the columella.
It is evidently more nearly allied to C minorlna; but the riblets are arcuate rather than "fere rectilinels ;" only the third and fourth whorls have spiral granulose striio; the last whorl can hardly be said to be " rersu-9 suturam.
aiiguhto, dorso ohfnsissimc carinato ;" the aperture is not " paululum obliqtia,^' but decidedly oblique ; and the columella i?
simply concave above, channeled at base, not " forta, leviter i))crassata."
Whether these differences indicate specific distinction cannot well be decided in the absence of a figure or dimensions of Mabille's species, or of specimens for comparison.
In the figure the sculpture is omitted, except on the earlier and later whorls.
1900.]
553 \ •Coelocentrum Eisenianum n. sp.
Fig.
2.
Shell excessively slender and lengthened, the upper half much attenuated, retaining the apex in adult indi^^duals; thin, rather fragile, light brown.
Whorls 21-22, the first glol)ose, the second slightly wider, then decreasing slightly in calibre to the fifth ; the earlier 4^ whorls thus forming a pupoid or slightly club-shaped nepi•onic portion, below which the diameter slowly increases ; last 4 or 5 whorls of nearly equal diameter.
All whorls strongly convex ; the last whorl a trifle flattened peripherally, its latter third becoming free and deviating tangentially somewhat, the free portion carinated above, having a cordlike keel about the umbilical region below.
Umbilicus small.
Sculpture : first 2^ whorls bearing very close, fine, <ielicate vertical riblets ; next 2 whorls with these riblets cut into granules by spiral decussating lines ; following whorls with close, fine, slightly «.rcuate riblets, about 47 in number on the next-to-last whorl.
Aperture decidedly obhque, rhombic, its length contained nearly eight times in that of the shell; peristome thin, continuous, slightly expanded throughout.
Alt.
23.5, diam.
of last whorl above aperture 2.
7, length of aperture 3 mm.
; diam.
of second whorl 1.3 mm.
Lower California (Fred L. Button).
This species differs from C. minorlnum Gahhi in the following respects: With the same length it has a much more slender form, more numerous and narrower whorls, coarser costulation and a smaller aperture.
The apical whorls are, moreover, rather more <3lub-shaped.
It is not closely related to any other species known.
Coelocentrum irregulare (Gabb).
Figs.
3, 4.
After eliminating the specimens of C minorinum Gahhi, there remain four imperfect examples of this species in the collection presented by Gabb to the Academy, Two of these are young or broken sheila, showing only the tapering early growth, without the embryonic whorls.
They are about 11 mm.
long.
Another (fig.
Fig.
2.
554 [1900.
\ Fi«.
4.
3) is Gabb's figured type, which hkewise lacks the attenuated early portion; and the fourth example is an adult shell of which only the lower 3^ whorls remain (fig.
4).
The apical characters are therefore still to be ascertained, as well as the total number of wdiorls, although the species will probably prove to be constantly truncated when adult.
The type (fig.
3, sculpture omitted) retains 12 whorls, which are convex and sculptured like those of B. minorinum Gabbi, except that the riblets are stronger.
The whorls are shorter, so that a greater number is contained in the same length of shell than in the other species mentioned.
There are 58 riblets on the next-to-the-last whorl.
TJie last lohorl does not in the least become free but remains adnate, as in the Mexican species.
The aperture is rounded, squarely truncate above, and but very slightly oblique, the peristome is moderately expanded, the outer and basal margins arcuate, columellar margin broadly dilated; parietal margin adnate to the preceding whorl, nearly straight and nearly horizontal.
The figured type (fig.
3), which is decollate, measures: Alt.
19, diam.
above aperture 4.2 mm.
; alt.
of aperture 3.5 mm.
Another specimen (fig.
4), broken, but with the aperture perfectly adult, measures: Diam.
above aperturt 4.8 mm.
; aperture, alt.
4, diani.
4 mm.
C. irregulare is much like the species of the Mexican mainland except in being smaller and especially more slender.
All the specimens known are bleached to a faint brown tint or white.
BERENDTIA.
Berendtia Avas based by Crosse and Fischer upon the single species Taylori of Pfeiffer, with which Gabb's Ci/lindrella Xenrombiana i* identical.
The species is from the same region inhabited by Ccelocenfram irregulare.
The apex of Bcreiidtia is retained in the adult state, as in Ccelocentrum minoriiium Gabbi and C. Ei^^eniauumy Fig.
3. but unlike most other species of that genus.
Beginning with a bulbous tip as in C. Eisenianum, there are two finely costulate whorls; then spiral strife appear and continue for a half whorl, when the termination of the nepionic stage is reached and the oblique costulation of the adult stage begins.
The apical characters are therefore essentially as in Ccelocentrum.
The aperture is ovate with free and entire peristome, very similar to that of Ccelocentrum minor inum Gabbi.
The only feature remaining to differentiate Berendtia from Cuilocentrum is the extremely slender axis, imperforate throughout.
It is evident that Berendtia is a tangent from Ccelocentrum, and distinguished from certain Lower Californian species of that genus solely by the reduction of the columella from a tube to a solid style, as in the genus Eucalodium.
