COCKSCOMB FASCIATION OF PINEAPPLES.
BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. A remarkable case of fasciation, probably one of the most strikiug of that teratologieal couditiou kuowu to botanists, is one recently found by the writer in the pineapple, Ananassa saliva.
The fruit of the pineapple plant is a multiple one, formed from many spicately arranged flowers and their bracts consolidated into one mass upon a succulent, fleshy axis.
Ordinarily, only a single, conical fruit with its tuft of green, slerile, bract leaves is borne at the summit of the plant, surrounded at the base by the large, leathery, awl-pointed, spirally-arranged, sword-shaped, vegetative leaves.
In teratologieal specimens, shipped to Philadelphia from Jamaica and displayed in the windows of prominent fruiterers, several pineapples produced on a single plant were found united bv conireniral growth into a fan-like mass.
One of the most ^^-\Striking of these, presented to the writer by Henry Hallowell & Son, was an almost completely open fan, the individual fruits being arranged in a semicircular manner, as shown in the accompanying figure, reproduced from a photograph of one of the largest fasciated specimens.
These fasciated pineapples, known to the trade as " Freak " or " Cockscomb Pineapples," seem to be not at all uncommon, Henry Hallowell & Son had at least a dozen or more specimens, besides the one presented to the writer.
The smallest of these consisted of two united pineapples, and the largest (twenty inches across, twelve inches high) showed the union of a dozen or more.
The fasciated fruits in nearly all instances were arranged regularly side by side; in some illustrations, however, one or two fruits crowded out of the fan-shaped mass during growth projected in several directions, so that the combined mass consisted of an irregularly disposed row of united pineapples.
A stem, one to two inches in diameter, common to all of the united fruits, was present in all the cases examined.
Apparently from a count of the more concave, flat side of the monstrosity shown in the plate, there were ten pineapples united together, as outlined by the deep grooves which ran between them.
On the other, more convexface, twelve united masses were discernible, all arising from a common stalk one and a half inches in diameter, with a number of lanceolate, involucral leaves about six to eight inches long at the base of the clustered fruits.
A count, however, of the tufts of crown leaves would indicate, if each fruit in the bunch had only one crown tuft, that many more fruits than ten or twelve were aggregated together.
The coronal tufts of leaves form a continuous growth over the entire top of the fasciation, as shown in the plate.
It was difficult to count the tufts therefore, on account of their massing together, but the most careful count possible under the circumstances gave fifty tufts as the result of the enumeration.
It seeiped hardly likely, however, that the fasciated mass consisted of that many fruits, and to decide the matter a section was made through the monstrosity by means of a saw, and such a section showed twenty distinct upward projecting divisions of the fleshy fasciation.
Whether each division represented a fruit, it was not possible to determine by the examination.
The monstrosity, which had a pleasant pineapple aroma, was succulent, but very fibrous, with many fibres radiating from the common stalk and running to the semicircular summit of the edible mass.
The flavor was (juite good, although the specimens tried lacked the juiciness of the finer Ripley pines, and reminded one of the taste of the inferior grades of Cowboy pineapples raised in Jamaica and consumed by the negroes of that island.
The ripened individual flowers of the fasciated pineapples were apparently normal, consisting of the succulent inferior ovary, succulent sepals and fleshy base of the subtending bract.
The succulent, diamond-shaped floral masses were flattened laterally, or became mere vestigial structures, wherever they had been pressed together by the union of the pineapples of which the monstrosity was composed.
One is tempted to theorize with these unique specimens taken into consideration, for fasciation appears in plants subjected to conditions of nourishment above the normal, occasionally as a result of disease or injury.
Did these factors influence the production of fasciated pineapples in Jamaica ?
Who can say!
A NEW SPECIES OF OPHIBOLUS FROM WESTERN TEXAS BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN.
Ophibolus alternus *!> "ov.
Plate XXXIV.
Maxillary teeth 13; mandibular 14-15.
Body moderately slender; bead distinct, muzzle contracted; eye rather large.
Rostral low and broad, barely visible from above; internasals about half tlie length of prefrontals ; frontal a little longer than the suture between parietals, longer than the snout; parietals large, wide in front, narrow behind; nasals 2, the nostril between them; loreal small, longer than high; preocular 1 ; post oculars, 2 on one side, 3 on the other; temporals, 2-3 on one .side, 3-4 on the other; upper labials 7, third and fourth in orbit; lower labials 11.
Posterior chin shields a little shorter than the anterior, not separated by scales.
Scales smooth, with two inconspicuous pits, in 25 rows.
Ventrals 217; anal entire; subcaudals 60 pairs.
Total length 710 mm.
(tail 115).
The ground color is slate gray, crossed on the back, at intervals of 3 to 5 scales, by bands of black which are alternately wider and narrower, the wide ones covering from 2 to 8 scales on the middle of the back, and more or less divided transversely on their centres with scarlet.
The narrow bands are about one scale wide and wholly black, occasionally broken through by the ground color.
On the neck the bands are narrower and less defined, while the red is more pronounced on the posterior part of the body.
There are nineteen red and black bauds on the body, and an equal number of the intermediate black ones.
On the tail there are 5 bands, which form quite distinct rings, on the last two of which the red is absent.
The head, including the labials, is dark gray with small dark mottlings, not well defined, and a narrow black streak from the postoculars to the angle of the mouth.
Ventral surface grayish white, heavily blotched with 1)lack, into which the black portion of the cross bands runs.
Type, No.
14,977 Academy Coll.
From the Davis Mountains, Jeff Davis count v, Texas.
Collected bv E. Mevenberg.
The snake here described was received alive at the Zoological Gardens, on October 22, and came from the same locality and collector as the lately described Coluber subocularis.
In proporlions and scale formula it comes nearest to 0. zonatus Blain.
(^ 0. pyrrhomelas Cope), but the head is narrower, the snout more contracted and there are two more rows of scales, while the peculiar disposition of the doi'sal cross bands is quite unlike any Ophibolus previously known.
The species is perhaps intermediate between 0. zonatus and 0. leonls Gunth., the type of which came from Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
