NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS FROM THE TRIAS OF PENNSYLVANIA.
BY AMOS P. BROWN.
The Museum of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has recently received a number of plant fossils from the Trias of Pennsylvania, the gift of Mr. George Velder, of Bucks County.
They come from a small local quarry, worked from time to time to supply stone for road metal.
The quarry is located in the Norristown Shales of Lyman, 1 the lowermost member of his " New Red," with which is to be correlated the Stockton of Kummel.
2 The stone in which the impressions are found is a thin-bedded, dark, shaly sandstone, with numerous small mica flakes, and sufficiently fine-grained to take a good impression of the plants.
These are in such good condition that they were evidently imbedded in the mud when fresh; the flexuous character of some of the species is perfectly reproduced, indicating that the mud in which the impressions were made was very soft.
In some of these impressions a coaly deposit has replaced the cellulose; in others the impression shows a rusty deposit, indicating that a certain amount of pyrites was reduced by the vegetable matter after the plant was imbedded, which has become oxidized to limonite, as the rock has been brought to the surface again by erosion.
On the specimens thus far studied, two species of Cycadales and four Coniferae are represented, of which four are new to science, two Cycadaceae and two Pinaceae.
Class CYCADALES.
Family CYCADACEA.
Podozamites formosus sp.
now Plate I. Rachis rather stout, varying in diameter from 5 mm.
to 2.5 mm.
in a length of 450 mm., marked near the edges of the upper side by the scars of attachment of the leaflets, of which there are 35 on each side in this distance of 450 mm.
Leaflets rather distantly spaced on the rachis, extending about at right angles to it, and the basal leaflets somewhat reflexed ; alternate to sub-opposite, nearly sessile ; attached 1 Summary Final Report, Geol.
Surv.
Pa., Ill, Part 2, 1895.
1 Ann.
Rep. State Geol.
Surv.
New Jersey, 1896.
2 at intervals of 11 to 13 mm.
by the contracted base.
Form of leaflets linear, parallel-sided, with the margin thickened and reflexed and the apex obtuse and rounded, rather suddenly contracted at the base where they are attached to the rachis.
The length of the leaflets is about 90 mm., width 10 to 11 mm.
They are deciduous, leaving an elongated scar measuring 3 mm.
longitudinally by 1 mm.
transversely on the rachis when they fall; the middle of the scar is marked by a circular spot where the vessels emerge.
Fragments of the bare rachis occur marked with the leaf scars and the individual detached leaflets are found on some slabs.
The leaflets are strongly parallel nerved, the nerves radiating from the point of attachment to the rachis and branching dichotomously until beyond the contracted base of the leaflet, from which point they are simple and par ailed to the end.
Those leaflets towards the basal end of the rachis are variously split at the ends along the veins, or the ends of the leaflets are variously divided into two or three lobes with rounded ends and parallel margins, probably due to erosion or perhaps to cutting by insects.
The leaflets must have been rather thick, for they leave behind a distinct coaly film, and in some cases the rachis impression shows a still heavier film of coal.
Owing to the linear form of the leaflet and the obtuse apex, there seems to be no contraction of the nerves at this point.
Zamites velderi sp.
nov.
Plate II.
Rachis slender, about 1.5 mm.
in diameter, having about 30 leaflets on each side in a length of 150 mm.
Leaflets alternate to sub-opposite, sessile; nearly touching at their bases; inserted on the upper side of the rachis by the contracted base, which expands abruptly from the point of attachment to somewhat more than the normal average width of the leaflet, making the base slightly eared; the leaflets point outward and forward from the rachis at an angle of 65°.
Form of the leaflets linear, parallel margined above the expanded base, and rounded and obtuse at the apex; length 40 to 50 mm., becoming shorter towards the base of the rachis ; width 3.5 to 4.5 mm.
; the edges of the leaflet reflexed and thickened.
The leaflets are parallel-nerved, the nerves radiating from the point of attachment to the rachis, but their mode of forking is not well preserved and does not appear to be dichotomous; nerves fine, about six in 1 mm.
The attachment of the leaflets is at the upper side of the rachis, by a sharply contracted base, and the expanded, eared bases overlap the rachis somewhat, as well as being in contact with each other, but there is no evidence on the one specimen of this species that the leaflets are deciduous, nor were detached leaflets of this species observed on other slabs.
The specimen shows the upper part of a leaf, near the apex, but 20 to 30 mm.
of this end is broken off.
The leaflets become shorter near the apex, one of the last preserved on the specimen, and very near the apex, is 28 mm.
long.
Class CONIFERALES.
Family PINACE^ Palissya diffusa (Emmons).
Plate III.
This species is represented by several slabs showing parts of branches, one with a length of stem of 200 mm.
showing the two sides of the branch on two slabs.
The branches on this stem are 6 to 7 on a side in a length of 200 mm.
; they attain a length of 130 mm.
and the ultimate branchlets extend about 20 mm.
on each side of the branches.
Some coaly matter along the main stem indicates from its thickness a considerable density for the woody stem.
The leaves are crowded on the branches, linear oblong, obtuse at the apex and about 1 by 3 mm.
They point forward at an angle of 45° and the branchlets are about 4 mm.
wide.
One of the smaller specimens is figured in Plate III.
Palissya obtusa sp.
nov.
Plate IV.
Small branches varying in thickness from 4.5 to 2 mm.
in different specimens; ultimate branchlets simple, very slender, terminations flexuous, branchlets up to 100 mm.
long, alternately attached to the small branch.
Leaves spreading laterally, apparently two-ranked, rather widely spaced; about 30 on a side in a distance of 80 mm.
; they are inserted subalternately, nearly oppositely, on the ultimate branchlets, attached by a short petiole, nearly sessile.
The form of the leaf is linear, sharply contracted at the base and obtuse at the apex, which latter character distinguishes this species from P. sphenolepis (Fr.
Braun).
Their size is 7 mm.
in length by 1.5 mm.
in width, the midrib is generally distinct.
The ultimate branchlets are deciduous, at least in part, as is the case with our living Taxodium distichum (L.) which this species recalls.
This species appears upon a number of slabs, all representing terminal or lateral twigs of a branch ; those showing definitely a termination are very flexuous and fernlike.
The largest specimen shows parts of a branch 300 mm.
long and the spreading branches from the main stem are 300 mm.
across; parts of adjacent branches cover the slab as though a limb of considerable size had been imbedded at one time.
Upon one of these twigs the side branchlets are simple in that portion towards the trunk of the tree, about 70 to 100 mm.
long; these are succeeded towards the apex by compound branchlets 150 to 200 mm.
long, the little ultimate branchlets upon which are 20 to 30 mm.
long.
The entire branch evidently expands from the base and tapers again towards the apex recalling the frond of a fern, as is the case with our "cedar" or arbor vita?
of the Pacific coast, Thuya plicata D. Don.
Cheirolepis muensteri (Schenk).
This species is represented by some small portions of branches on two of the slabs.
While the preservation is very perfect and the characters well shown, the surfaces of the specimens exposed are small in each case.
The best one shows a portion of a branch with 8 complete ultimate branchlets on one side and fragments of the ultimate branchlets on the opposite side.
These ultimate branchlets are 18-20 mm.
long, very thin and flexuous, and tapering from a little over 2 mm.
to a point.
They are densely leafy, the scale-like leaves being about 2 mm.
long and pointing forward at a sharp angle, closely crowded and decurrent at the base.
The tip of the leaf is acuminate, pointing forward as a spine; the midrib is pronounced.
The best specimen is on a slab with Palissya obtuso.
The tapering of the ultimate branchlets is due to the leaves' becoming smaller and more closely appressed to the axis of the branchlet towards the tip.
Cheirolepis latus sp.
nov.
Plate V. This species is represented on two slabs, one specimen showing the terminal part of a branch.
On this specimen the branchlets near the trunk end are 80 mm.
long and 25 mm.
wide; ovate lanceolate in outline and they stand at 90° from the stem; towards the terminal part they stand at an angle of 80° and they are 60 mm.
long, tapering from 15 mm.
wide at the base to a point, at the apex of the branchlets, making them linear lanceolate in outline.
The branchlets are nearly opposite upon the stem, or sometimes more nearly alternate; they are deciduous, leaving a scar projecting where they fall.
The main stem is marked by strong, acutely pointed scales or leaves, covering these points of attachment of the branchlets; these scales often become reflexed after the branchlets fall and produce the appearance of hooks pointing backward on the stem.
The ultimate branchlets are two ranked upon the larger branchlets from the stem above described; they are arranged sub-alternately to nearly oppositely, but they are never truly opposite; they are covered with densely crowded leaves which are spirally arranged in four ranks, closely appressed and scalelike, apparently decurrent at the base.
.
Explanation of Plates I-V.
Plate I.
— -Portion of leaf of Podozamites formosus sp.
now Natural size.
Plate II.
— Leaf of Zamites velderi sp.
now Natural size.
Plate III.
— Portion of small branch of Palissya diffusa (Emmons).
Natural size.
Plate IV.
— Small branches, bearing ultimate branchlets, of Palissya obtusa sp.
now Natural size.
Plate V. — Branch of Cheirolepis latus sp.
now, showing the varying shape of branchlets and the scars left by the fall of former branchlets.
NaUiral size.
22 proceedings of the academy of [feb., February 7.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair.
Forty-five persons present.
The receipt of papers under the following titles was reported : "New Cycads and Conifers from the Trias of Pennsylvania."
by Amos P. Brown (January 18).
"The Ethno-Botany of the Gosiute Indians," by Ralph V. Chamberlin (February 6).
The deaths of Frank Haseltine, July 18, 1910, and of William T Biddle, August 11, 1910, members, were announced.
The meeting was held in conjunction with the Biological and Microscopical Section.
Mr. Frank J. Keeley gave a summary of the work accomplished by means of the micro-spectroscope.
(See paper.)
Dr. Herbert Fox exhibited specimens of sputum showing the human type of tubercle bacilli, section of a lung of a guinea-pig showing bovine bacilli in a histologic tubercle', an avian tuberculoma with tubercle bacilli in the epithelioid cells, the Trypanosoma lewisi in the blood of a rat, and two forms of the malaria of birds, Proteosoma and Halteridium, showing their relations to the nucleus of the red blood-cell.
The first three sections were from the Laboratory of the Pennsylvania Department of Health, the last three from the Laboratory of Comparative Pathology of the Philadelphia Zoological Society.
Mr. W. H. Van Sickle spoke of carniverous plants, with illustrative specimens.
(No abstract.)
Mr. Hugo Bilgram referred to the moulting of caterpillars involving the duplication of organs and called attention to illustrative preparations.
^ Mr. Charles S. Boyer exhibited sections of Selenite and Leucite.
Dr. D. E. Owen showed specimens of Ishnia nervosa, a diatom from the coast of Maine, not before reported from that locality.
Dr. Thomas S. Stewart exhibited preparations of the blood of a leucsemic patient, the fly and larva of the Congo blood-sucker, and specimens of hydroids.
1911.]
natural sciences op philadelphia.
23 February 21.
Mr. Witmer Stone in the Chair.
Forty persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of papers under the following titles : " Micro-Spectroscopic Observations/' by Frank J. Keeley (February 14). "
Variations in some Jamaican Species of Pleurodonta," by Amos P. Brown (February 16).
Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication on some of the world's interesting butterflies.
(No abstract.)
The following were elected members : Mrs. Arthur Biddle.
Alexander Brown.
William H. Ran.
Edward A. Schumann, M.D.
Alexander A. Uhle, M.D.
The following were ordered to be printed : THE ETHNO-BOTANY OF THE GOSIUTE INDIANS.
BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN.
The home of the Gosiute Indians was formerly all of the generally desert territory bordering the Great Salt Lake on the south and extending westward into eastern Nevada.
To the passing traveller this whole region, before certain favored portions were reclaimed by irrigation, appeared so utterly desolate and uninviting that he must have wondered that any human being should be found there excepting from direst necessity.
Yet to the Gosiute this still is, as it long has been, home and native land, and he loves it with a love as ardent as ever burned in the breast of patriot.
Away from it he pines; and no thought to him is so harrowing as that the Government may yet force him away to some hated reservation; no suffering so deep as that he bears when he sees his last remaining foothold steadily encroached upon by stockman and rancher.
He knows well the haunt and habits of its living creatures; the familiar note of its every bird has become woven into his very life ; while from grandparents he knows the quality of root and leaf and seed of its plants, among which he finds food for every season and for every ill a medicine.
Nature's severe parsimony in this land forced him to know minutely and to use to the utmost such resources as she had bestowed.
The region is broken by a series of mountain ranges running in a generally north and south direction and rising for the most part from one to six thousand feet above the plateau.
Between the ranges are level valleys floored with alluvial gravel, sand and silt, washed and accumulated through many ages from the mountains and charged with the alkaline salts forming so marked a characteristic of the country.
In the lower central portions of each valley there is typically an alkaline flat or playa where in the winter season water collects in a shallow sheet and converts the soil into a soft clay-like mud that is "bottomless and impassable."
In the summer time the flat is dry and hard and often shows white and glistening from an incrustation of the alkaline salts.
The mountains are furrowed with many gulches and narrow canyons which here and there in their courses widen into pleasant, meadow-like basins which are locally termed "parks."
The annual rainfall in the valleys is very low, the precipitation increasing slowly with the altitude up the mountains.
The air is naturally excessively dry, the moisture content being, according to Gilbert, 1 but 45 per cent, of that necessary for saturation, as against 69 per cent, in the region between the Mississippi River and the Appalachian Mountains, and the power of evaporation annually 80 inches, as against 22 inches over Lake Michigan.
From the lower ranges the snow that falls generally evaporates without melting or melts without the formation of definite streams.
The heavier snows of the higher ranges feed scattered springs and the small streams running down the canyons and out a varying distance into the valleys, where, often after becoming heavily charged with alkali, they sink into the parched soil and are lost.
Many of the springs at the bases of the ranges are brackish or salt and some are warm.
The vegetation of this arid region, while generally scant, is more abundant than most would expect; and there is no part even of the valleys in the driest times wholly devoid of plants, excepting some of the playas most heavily charged with alkali, and especially the Great Salt Lake Desert.
In these places scattered clumps of the several " greasewoods " occur about the margins.
The vegetation of the valleys and slopes as well as of the hills and of much of the mountain sides presents a monotonous uniformity of appearance due to an immense profusion of individuals of but few species.
Those most constant and conspicuous are shrubby and suffrutescent plants which occur almost to the exclusion of other forms.
No trees are found among them.
Grasses grow in tufts, but these die out with the advancing season everywhere excepting in favored recesses and parks of the mountains.
Turfing grasses, such as are so conspicuous in parts of the plains region east of the Rockies, do not occur, excepting certain salt forms almost worthless for pasturage and confined to the alkaline meadow lands.
As a protection against the intense dryness of the region, the characteristic plants above mentioned have mostly reduced leaves with tough cuticle and often a dense covering of hair.
The prevalent color of the vegetation is a wearisome gray or dull olive.
Only at long intervals is this monotony of color relieved by the bright green of the richer vegetation of the oases about springs and along streams.
It is impossible for plants of the higher orders to thrive in the strongly alkaline soil in the lower portions of the valleys.
The plants growing here belong for the most part especially to the Chenopodiacese, 1 Lake Bonneville, pp.
6 and 7, 1890. of which one of the best known and most widely distributed is the common greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) .
Of similar habit and abundance is Halostachys occidentalis.
Along with these, among other abundant plants of the same family, occur Sueda depressa and especially the peculiar glasswort or samphire (Salicornia herbacea), which in marshy saline ground nourishes over wide areas about the Great Salt Lake and forms, with its brightly colored, fleshy stems, a pleasing feature of the landscape.
Farther back from the playas are found the chenopods Eurotia lanata, the white sage, the familiar and excessively abundant Grayda polygaloides, the larger spinescent Shepherdia argentea, several species of Atriplex and others.
Intermingling to some extent with the last-mentioned forms, and beyond the alkaline soil of their preference wholly predominant, is the ever common sage-brush {Artemisia tridentata).
This form almost completely usurps the better soil of the valleys and plains and extends far up on the mountain sides.
With the sage-brush, over the gravelly foot-hills, are also found Tetradymia canescens, Purshia tridentata and Cowania mexicana.
In the swales and other places favored by the drainage Bigelovia is a common plant.
The smaller suffrutescent rabbit-brush or torch-weed, Guttierezia, abounds almost everywhere and often forms a conspicuous feature over large areas.
Among the Artemisias occur here and there the brilliantly flowered cacti, and, during the early summer, such herbaceous forms as the common Phlox longifolia, various Gilias, Phacelias, Lithospermums and Echinospermums, Oenotheras, Allium, several species of Astragalus, the gaudily flowered Balsamorrhiza sagittata and other Composite, with later in the season, in most parts, the beautiful sego lily, Calochortus nuttalli.
The lower mountains, like the valleys, are chiefly destitute of trees and are overgrown with bush and shrub of kinds occurring on the foot-hills or with these, because of the more exposed situation, more scattered and dwarfed.
On the higher mountains, however, coniferous woods occur in often wide tracts.
At lower levels the cedar (Juniperus) is everywhere common, as at higher levels is the spruce.
The nut pine, of so much importance formerly to the Indians, is abundant in certain ranges, of which should be mentioned especially the Deep Creek Mountains.
The mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), also much used in earlier times by the Gosiutes, is widespread.
Among herbaceous forms common over the mountains are such as Ferula multifida, species of Peucedanum, the much prized Carum gairdneri and other Umbelliferse ; Castelleia parviflora and Penstemon glaber, Heuchera and Mitella and other Saxif ragaceee ; the larkspurs Delphinium menziesi and bicolor; Eriogonums and various species of the Compositse.
In the canyons containing streams of water occurs a comparative wealth of plants not found elsewhere.
Of trees and shrubs growing along the stream margins are various species of willow, the quaking aspen, the cottonwood, the birch (Betula occidentalis) , the service-berry or june-berry (Amelanchier alnifolia), the wild or choke-cherry (Prunus demissa), haws (Crakegus rivularis), the kinnikinnic (Cornus stolonijera), the elder (Sambucus racemosa), the maple (Acer glabrum), the sumac or " squaw-berry " (Rhus aromatica) and the wild rose (Rosa calif omica and nutkana).
In the richer soil of canyons and foot-hills the scrub-oak (Quercus unduloius) grows in dense patches.
As an undergrowth over the sides of the canyons the box (Pachystima myrsinites) and Oregon grape are common, while various species of wild-currant (Ribes), Ceanothus velutinus and other shrubby plants often grow thickly.
Of common herbaceous plants growing in favorable places and season may be mentioned such forms as Erythronium grandiflorum, Fritillaria pudica, Smilacina amplexicaulis and other Liliales; Claytonia, Geranium richardsoni, Wyethia amplexicaulis, Mimulus luteus, Mentha and other Labiatae, Clematis, Aquilegia and others.
In this ill-favored region large game was not relatively abundant, and the Gosiutes could not be primarily a hunting tribe.
They seem to have placed no regular dependence upon forms larger than the abundant hare or "jack-rabbit," although when opportunity was propitious they sometimes undertook the securing of antelope and deer.
At one side of Mill Creek Canyon, which is in the Wahsatch Mountains and opens into the Salt Lake Valley, there is a mountain valley which, broad and open at its upper part, narrows toward the canyon into a vertically-sided gorge which terminates abruptly at a precipice of great height.
Occasionally the Gosiutes resorted to this richer region beyond their proper territory, and at opportune times surrounding deer and antelope would drive them down the valley to the gorge, where the terrified animals, finding retreat impossible, leaped over the precipice to their deaths.
From this the Mill Creek Canyon is known to the Gosiute as Tingoup, which means rock or "precipice trap."
Some of the older men also tell of a great "trap" artificially constructed in the Cedar Mountains and formerly kept in repair from year to year.
This was a great run of V-shape, the sides of which were walls or fences formed of logs and brush.
At the time of a drive all available men and women would make a wide semicircle about antelope or other game that might be in the region and, shouting and continually closing in, would drive the animals to the narrow apex of the run or corral, where hidden hunters easily killed the bewildered game.
* While antelope, deer, bear and other large game formed scarcely more than an occasional source of sustenance among the Gosiutes, the jack-rabbit, exceedingly abundant throughout the region, was highly important to them and was regularly a chief dependence in fall and winter for meat, raiment and blankets.
After a hunt the meat was dried and preserved, while the skins were dressed and largely twisted into fur ropes.
These fur ropes were then bound together to form blankets or articles of clothing which were very warm and serviceable.
It was the custom to hold great rabbit hunts or drives every fall.
In these drives the entire tribe engaged and were sometimes joined by neighboring bands.
The common procedure was to construct of sage-brush, greasewood or other convenient material a great V-shaped run similar to the one described in the preceding paragraph, but of course with lower and tighter walls.
At the apex was a hole leading into an underground passage covered or roofed with a hide.
The hares were surrounded and driven into the enclosure by the co-operation of men, women and children.
As the hares reached the apex of the enclosure they would run into the covered passage, from which they were taken by men stationed for the purpose.
Sometimes the hares were merely driven into the heap of brush, where, bewildered and impeded, they were readily killed by means of clubs.
In the spring and early summer the ground-squirrel or spermophile, everywhere present, was trapped or hunted, originally with bow and arrow.
It is still sought as food, as which it is much relished.
Certain of the larger desert lizards and some snakes were formerly eaten, but these forms are no longer sought for this purpose, although declared to be good tasting.
An abundance of food was furnished at times by the black cricket (Anabrus simplex), several species of locusts and the cicada.
The crickets often occurred in vast swarms or "armies."
They were not only eaten in season, but were dried and preserved for winter use in baskets or other receptacles covered in pits.
A favorite method of cooking fresh crickets was to place them in pits lined with hot stones in which they were covered and left until thoroughly roasted.
This dish is really very palatable and is compared by the Indians to the shrimp, which they accordingly term the aquatic or "fish cricket."
Locusts were likewise eaten and were similarly prepared and preserved for winter use.
The cicada was eaten both fresh and after cooking.
Indian children may still often be seen catching these insects, deftly removing head and appendages, and eating the bodies at once with evident relish.
It was, however, upon the products of the plant kingdom as available in the flora in some of its features outlined above that the Gosiutes placed their chief dependence for food, a fact that led, in the trapper and pioneer days, to their being included under the odious omnibus designation of "diggers."
Living close to nature and impelled by strict necessity, they knew the plants of their region with a thoroughness truly remarkable.
From root to fruit they knew the plants in form and color, texture and taste and according to season and habitat.
Whatever portion of a plant could serve in any degree for food they had found out, and whatever would poison or injure they had learned to avoid.
From plants, too, they obtained most of their remedies, which were many, as well as the materials for making most of their household and other utensils.
The education of the Gosiute children in a knowledge of these and other matters important to them in their original state was looked after with great care by the grandparents, as among other Indians, the older men and women, because of their longer experience and consequent more extensive knowledge, being looked up to as the natural teachers and advisers in the tribe; but since the change in mode of life consequent upon the coming of the white race this education is much neglected.
As a result, the knowledge concerning plants and their properties possessed by the younger generations is much inferior to that of the older men and women now fast passing away.
The Gosiutes ate the leaves and stems of many plants as "greens" after boiling them in water according to the usual custom.
Some members of the Cruciferse and Composite containing acrid or otherwise distasteful oils or other principles were sometimes taken through a preliminary course of repeated washings to remove the objectionable taste as far as possible, after which they were cooked and eaten as usual.
The leaves and petioles of the arrowroot {Balsamorhiza sagittata), termed ku'-si-a-ken-dslp, furnished one of the most used and dependable foods of this type.
This is a conspicuous and abundant member of the early-season flora throughout the region.
The hastate leaves of this plant, mostly radical and forming a tuft, are eight or nine inches long, with still longer petioles, and the flowers are large, showy heads like those of the sunflower.
Cymopterus longipes, an-dzup' ', is an umbellate widely distributed and abundant like the preceding form.
It is an early spring plant with tufted leaves of pinnately decompound form and with umbels of yellow flowers.
The leaves of this plant in season furnished a standard and favorite dish.
The leaves of the closely related Cymopterus montanus were not eaten, though the rootstocks and proximal portions of the petioles were.
Among many other plants of which the leaves were eaten may be mentioned Troximon aurantiacum, mu'-tci-gi, native water-cress (Nasturtium), pa'-mu, and Ranunculus aquatilis, the entire plants of the latter form being used.
The entire plant of the cancer-root (Aphyllon fasciculatum) , po'-ho-ru, a pale leafless parasite growing upon the roots of the sage-brush and several species of Eriogonum, was also eaten.
The stems of the plumed thistle (Cnicus edulis), po'-gwo, as did also in quantity the lower tender stems and root-stocks of the bulrush (Scirpus validus and maritimus), saip.
A plant of primary importance to the Gosiute, because it furnished one of their most valued medicines, but which was also the source of a certain amount of food, is Ferula multifida.
Only the youngest shoots, just as they were breaking through the ground, were used as food, the ill-tasting older growths being rejected as unusable.
Of the plants that furnished food to the Gosiutes in the form of roots, root-stocks, tubers and bulbs, none is popularly so well known as the beautiful Calochortus nuttalli, si'-go, to the Indians, whence our common name sego, which is the State flower of Utah.
The bulbs of this lily were formerly gathered as food.
Not only were they eaten in season, but they were preserved in quantity for winter use by being dried and placed in pits like those described below.
From these pits they were taken as needed.
They were most commonly cooked with meat in " stews."
When the Mormons first arrived in Utah and the struggle for food was so severe with them, they learned from the Indians the value of this article, and the digging of the bulbs in the spring did much in many families to stave off starvation.
Another lily furnishing an edible bulb is Fritillaria pudica, wi'-na-go, a yellow-flowered form blooming in the mountains in early spring.
It was much less important, however, than the sego.
The Camassia, pa'si-go, furnished a more important food of this class and in some sections where more available was extensively used.
The bulbs of the wild onions (Allium bisceptrum, etc.
), kiin'-ga, and those of the common spring beauty (Claytonia caroliniana) , dzi'-na, were also eaten in season, but are said not to have been preserved for winter use.
One of the most highly prized of all food plants among the Gosiutes was Carum gairdneri, yamp or yam'-pa, which occurs in abundance in favorable places in the higher mountains.
It grows to a height of four feet and bears rather few pinnately compound leaves.
The roots are swollen and tuberous.
It is these that are eaten.
They are sweet and pleasant to the taste and are nutritious from the presence of an abundance of starchy material.
The Indians were very fond of it and still frequently gather it.
The usual method of cooking the roots was to roast them in pits lined with hot stones in which they were commonly covered and left overnight.
Sometimes they were boiled.
These roots were cached in large quantities for winter use.
An industry of the Gosiutes and related tribes very frequently noticed by early travellers was the gathering of the seeds of grasses and of various other plants, a source of food of fundamental importance.
While many kinds of plants furnished seeds that were used, by far the greater proportion came from the grasses and members of the Chenopodiacese.
Few grasses occurring at all abundantly did not furnish them seeds, as those mentioned in due order in the later lists will indicate.
Various chenopods previously mentioned as forming such a predominant and characteristic element of the flora over the valleys and flats furnished a great quantity of nutritious seeds; and in some localities species of Atriplex and Chenopodium in particular, and in wet places Salicornia, appear to have been the chief source of supply.
Plants of these genera are so often seen growing thickly over wide areas that they would seem in places to have furnished a food supply limited only by the capacity and inclination of the Indians to harvest it.
Especially Atriplex confertijolia, sun, is abundant in the alkaline valleys throughout the region, occurring in enormous profusion in the more favorable places so as to have been much depended upon.
Another species also furnishing seeds is Atriplex truncata, a'-po.
The brittlewort or samphire {Salicornia hebracea), o'-ka or pa'-o-ka, previously mentioned, is a low, leafless, herbaceous plant with fleshy jointed stems.
It has been compared in appearance to branchingcoral, to living groves of which the resemblance is accentuated by its presenting colors in many shades of p nk, red and yellow.
The plant occurs over extensive areas in marshy ground about the shores of the Great Salt Lake and elsewhere throughout the region, often thickly covering the ground for miles where no other plant is found.
The seeds of this plant when made into a meal and cooked are said to have furnished an article tasting like sweet bread, and one of which the Indians were very fond.
< )f Cruciferae furnishing edible seeds the most important seems to have been the hedge mustard {Sisymbrium, canescens), poi'-ya or po'-nak, the seeds of which were gathered and used in the ordinary way, but were also, it is said, after being ground up to have been mixed with snow in the winter time and in this form eaten as a sort of refreshment.
In the borage family the species of Lithospermum, tso'-ni-baip, more especially, furnished a portion of seeds.
Seeds of the mints Drachocephalum parviflorum and Lophanthus urticifolius, both known under the name ba'-gwa-nup or toi'-ya-ba-qwa-nup, were also regularly gathered.
Especially nutritious and important were the seeds beaten from the heads of a number of species of the Composite.
Among various others may be mentioned the arrowroot (Balsa morhiza saqittata), previously spoken of as furnishing edible leaves, the related Balsamorhiza hookeri, mo'-a-kump, Wyethia amplexicaulis, pi'-a-kendsip, Gymnolomia multiflora, mu'-ta-kai, and the sunflower (Helianthus).
The familiar arrow-grass (Triglochin maritimum), pa'-na-wi, and the cat-tail (Typha latifolia), to' -imp, are also to be included here.
The ripe spikes of the latter were gathered and the bristles were burned off, by which process the seeds were freed and were at the same time roasted.
The seeds of all these and of other plants were collected in approximately the same way.
They were first gathered in large baskets commonly about two and a half feet wide by three feet deep and designated by the name na'-pi-o-sa or sometimes as wu'-tsi-a-nump.
These baskets were closely woven and were made tight by means of the gum or pitch of the pine by which the meshes were thoroughly filled, as in the case of water-jugs.
The ripe spikes or heads of grasses and the seed containing portions of other plants were knocked or swept into this basket (ta!
'-ni-kum-ma-iou' '-ti-qa) by means of a second smaller basket about the size of a threeor four-quart milk pan and known as the da'-mq".
Often this da'-mq u was provided with a handle projecting from one side like the handle of a dipper and along the side opposite the attachment of this handle with a flat piece of wood sharpened to an edge like the blade of a knife, its use being to strike against and cut off the fruiting portions of the plants.
The large basket might be held in convenient position beneath the taller plants with the left hand, while in the right the smaller one, or da'-niq u , was used to sweep the tops of the plants ; but more frequently the na'-pio-sa was carried beneath the left arm or swung upon the back.
When in the latter position a quick sweep of the da'-niq u was made from right to left across the plants and then up over the left shoulder so as to carry the loosened material into the receptacle.
The materials gathered in the baskets in this way were carried to some convenient and suitable place near the encampment and piled upon the ground preparatory to threshing.
This operation (mon-gopma-wu-pain, to beat seed vessels, to thresh) was performed simply by beating thoroughly with sticks or paddles until the chaff, pods and other accessory parts were fully loosened from the seeds.
The separation of the seeds from the chaff and other waste parts, the winnowing, was next accomplished by slowly shaking the threshed material from a special winnowing basket or fan held at a height wmen the wind was blowing which could carry away the chaff w r hile allowing the seeds to fall more directly to the ground or upon skins spread for the purpose (ma-ioi'-a-nin, to winnow).
The winnowing basket (ti n '-u-wa) was circular or ovate in form and was shallow, being but gently and gradually depressed from the margins toward the center.
Larger or heavier materials were separated by hand.
At the present time the Gosiutes grow wheat and oats in considerable quantity which they thresh and winnow in this primitive way as do various other Indians.
The threshing is sometimes done by means of horses driven round and round in a circle over the cut grain spread out on a floor or upon hard ground, the tramping of the horses accomplishing what is more commonly effected by the pounding with sticks or paddles.
The same method is used not only among other Indian tribes in the West, but also among peoples of the Orient.
After winnowing, the seeds were stored in baskets or other appropriate receptacles for winter, the containers being covered in pits in the usual way.
Before using, the grain commonly was made into a meal by being ground up by hand in the well-known mortar or mill.
Among the Gosiutes this was a flat stone of mostly oblong form {pa'-to) upon which the seeds were placed and pulverized by means of a smaller, mostly subcylindrical stone (du'-su), which was rubbed back and forth over the mortar under pressure.
This operation in time resulted in wearing out the mill over the middle portion and leaving an elevated rim along each side, which served the better to keep the grain in place.
The meal thus obtained was largely used as a porridge or mush or was baked into crude cakes.
Of high importance to the Gosiutes as food was the fruit of the nutpine (Pinus monophylla) .
The expedition to the mountains each fall for gathering pine nuts was one of the great fixed events of the year ; and to this day, when so little dependence is placed upon most of the original sources of their food supply, pine nuts (ti'-ba) are gathered regularly in considerable quantity and are kept for use or, to some 3 extent, marketed among the white people in trade.
In visiting the regular Gosiute encampments during the pine-nut season one may feel ■certain to find them in great part deserted.
The method of obtaining the nuts is to gather the cones and partially to burn them in a fire.
In this process the nuts are roasted.
The nuts are next beaten out of the cones.
If further roasting be found necessary, it is carried out by placing the nuts in ovens.
The roasted nuts were eaten directly with or without shells or they might be ground up in the mill into a meal.
Formerly the nuts, after roasting, were placed in specially made, tall, sack-like baskets in which they were kept in pits or cellars.
The acorns (ku'-ni-ro-iimp) of the Rocky Mountain or scrub-oak (Quercus undulata, var.
), ku'-ni-up, found over portions of this regions, were used as food in season, but they are said not to have been preserved for winter use.
They were by no means of the high use to the Gosiutes that the fruit of some oaks are to other tribes, such as those of California.
Of succulent fruits that of the service-berry (Amelanchier alnifolia), ti'-um-pi, was probably most important.
Not only did it furnish food in season, but it was preserved in large quantities for winter use.
For preservation the berries were mashed up, spread out in layers, exposed to the sun and allowed to dry thoroughly.
The dried fruit was then placed in pits lined with grass.
Immediately over the top of the fruit was placed a layer of the leaves of the sage-brush, the whole being overlaid with cedar bark and covered finally with earth.
For use in the winter the dried material was broken up in the mill and then boiled either with or without some kind of meat.
To this was often added a portion of certain seed meals said much to improve the flavor and general palatability.
The native currants (general name, po'-gonup) were gathered and preserved in the same way as the serviceberries.
Among these currants were the black or Missouri currant Ribes aureum, kai'-i-ump, Ribes divaricatum, wi'-sa-po-gihnp, and Ribes leptanthum and lacustre, ai'-go-po-gump.
The fruit of the wild cherry or western choke-cherry (Prunus demissa) was similarly used and preserved.
The fruit of the raspberry (Rubus leucodermis) , tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a or tu'-kwun-da-mi, and of the strawberry (Fragaria vesca), dn'-ka-pa-ri-ump, were sought and used in season, but no effort was made to preserve them for later use.
The berries of the rose (Rosa calif ornica) , tsi'-ump, were also among the foods.
A number of plants furnished the Gosiutes materials for smoking.
Most highly prized among these was the native tobacco plant (Nicotiana attenuata), pu'-i-ba-u, a plant growing in dry places to a height of one or two feet and bearing greenish-white salverform flowers from an inch to an inch and a half long.
The leaves, borne on slender petioles and ovate to lanceolate in form, were dried and used as ordinary tobacco.
Whether the related Nicotiana quadrivalvis , a native of Oregon and formerly cultivated by Indians from that State eastward as far as the Missouri, was formerly grown and used by the Gosiutes is uncertain.
Sedum glandulosum, drY-ka-ti-ioua, Vaccinium ccespitosum, ti'-da-kai-mi-ya, and Silene menziesii, yo'-go-ti-wi-ya, also furnished leaves which w r ere similarly dried and used as ordinary smoking tobacco.
Ranking in importance with the tobacco plant proper was the kinnikinnic (Cornus stolonifera) , the inner bark of which was smoked alone or after mixture with tobacco.
Of beverages the Gosiutes seem to have had but few originally.
A kind of tea made from the leaves of the mint (Mentha canadensis) is said to have been drunk considerably, pleasing the taste of many.
The leaves of the shrub in early days sometimes termed the mountain-tea, tin'-ai-hya, w r ere also used for making tea.
Another plant termed by the Indians tu'-tom-pi, but which I have not as yet definitely identified among those known to me in the immediate region, is said to possess a wood from which a good beverage was formerly made.
There were a number of chewing gums.
One was supplied by the gum of the Douglas spruce (Pseudotsuga douglasii), wan' -go.
Also the latex of Asclepias and of Senecio, among others, was dried and converted into a gum.
The chewing gum that seems to have been most prized, however, was obtained from the roots of the greater rabbit-brush (Bigelovia douglasi), si'-bil-pi.
The inner part of the root having been rejected, pieces of the outer portion w T ere taken into the mouth and chewed, a gummy substance gradually separating out and the more fibrous material being gradually removed.
This gum is sweet and pleasant to the taste.
Indian children and their elders as w r ell may still often be seen preparing it.
For the making of baskets, bowls, water-jugs, baby-baskets or cradles, etc., various species of w T illows, si'-o-pi, such as Salix lasiandra, longijolia and others, supplied a considerable proportion of the material, though, when available, many much preferred the shoots of the cottonwood, so'-ho-pi, because of their greater toughness.
For the frame in the several types of basket work, branches of the serviceberry (Amelanchier alnifolia), ti'-um-pi, were used because of their strength and toughness.
Water jugs, cooking bowls, seed baskets, winnowing fans and other vessels, designed to hold water or fine material, w r ere made impervious by being coated on the inside or both inside and outside with the gum of the nut-pine.
A smooth, glasslike inner surface was often supplied to these vessels, as also and more especially to earthen dishes, by coating them with a mucilage obtained from Malvastrum munroanum, koi'-no-kilmp.
This was secured by mashing or mincing the stems and leaves of the plant in water or simply by drawing it with pressure across the surface to be coated.
Bows were most commonly made from the wood of the mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledijolius), tu'-nump, and arrows from the wood of the service-berry.
The wood of the kinnikinnic was sometimes used for the frame-work of snow-shoes.
The winter lodges commonly were made almost entirely from the cedar, wa'-pi.
The main structure was built in the usual shape of logs and poles of this plant, the whole being thatched with the smaller branches and the bark, the latter being specifically termed i'-na-watsip.
For a covering over the ground within the lodges, the bark and finer branches of the cedar or grasses were used.
It was, no doubt, Gosiute lodges that Capt.
Stansbury saw in 1849 when travelling through Skull Valley on the west side of the Great Salt Lake.
He writes : "In a nook of the mountains, some Indian lodges were seen, which had apparently been finished but a short time.
They were constructed in the usual form of cedar poles and logs of considerable size, thatched with bark and branches, and were quite warm and comfortable.
The odor of the cedar was sweet and refreshing."
2 Originally the wood of the sage-brush (Artemisia tridentata), po'-ho-pi, was largely used for securing fire by means of friction when it was available, which was the rule.
For the same purpose, among others, the dried roots of the following were used: cedar (wa'-pi), mountain mahogany (tu'-nump) and Shepherdia.
The Gosiutes obtained empirically considerable knowledge concerning the medicinal properties of the plants of this region that was invaluable to them.
It may be noted that most of the valuable remedies in our own Pharmacopoeia also were first found out and used empirically.
Hence it is not so surprising to find that many of the remedies used by the Gosiutes are very closely related to some of those which we have used for the same purposes.
But, naturally, superstition among these Indians played a large part, and we find them often going through a procedure or applying a treatment the value of which must be regarded as wholly fictitious.
Superstitious beliefs and practices seem to have prevailed especially 3 Expedition to the Great Salt Lake, p. 171. where animals furnished the material used as medicine or otherwise played a part in the treatment of disease.
As one of the less involved cases may be mentioned the procedure in securing rattlesnake oil used for rheumatism.
The person having secretly found a rattlesnake must address it in some such way as this: "My good brother, you are powerful; I wish you to help me."
The rattlesnake must then be killed by a single shot directed unerringly from bow or gun through the head.
The body of the snake was then opened and the fat stripped from within the body into a receptacle, after which the body was buried so as to be seen by no one else, as otherwise the virtue of the oil would be destroyed.
The same procedure must be repeated with each snake used.
Only when this method had been carefully followed out was the oil when subsequently rubbed upon the affected organ supposed to be curatively effective.
As a second example may be cited the procedure supposed by many to effect a cure of persistent nose-bleed.
The person affected must secretly take some of the blood from his nose to the nest of the red or occidental ant (Pogonomyrmex occidentalis) into an excavation in which it was poured, so that it would be lapped and eaten up by the ants.
No dog or other animal must be allowed to touch the blood.
If all had been carefully followed out cessation of the hemorrhage was supposed to follow.
The great majority of the many medicines used by the Gosiutes were products of the plant kingdom, though to a limited number of animal substances and preparations curative properties were attributed.
As above stated, some of the medicines were of undoubted service, containing active principles identical with or closely related in not a few cases to those used or formerly used by our own practitioners.
Often several different medicines might be used for the same ailment or what was regarded as the same, the one selected depending upon season, availability or personal preference.
In some cases remedies were combined and given in a mixture, in which case each constituent was supposed to exercise its own particular virtue.
Medicines were roughly classified according to their use, the classification being in correspondence with their categories of disease.
Thus, medicine for wounds and cuts were classified as i'-a-na-tsu; for bruises and swellings as bai'-gwi-na-tsu; for burns, wai'-a-na-tsu; for coughs and colds, o'-ni-na-tsu; for bowel troubles, koi'-na-tsu; for "worms," ivu'-i-na-tsu; for venereal diseases, tim'-bai-na-tsu; for rheumatism, tso'-ni-na-tsu; for the blood, bu'-i-na-tsu; for bladder and kidney troubles, si'-na-tsu, etc.
In setting fractured bones in the limbs sticks of some convenient wood about an inch in diameter and of appropriate length were used as splints.
These were tightly bound in place by means of buckskin cords passed from one splint to the next about which it was wound and then passed to the next and so on i*ound and round the limb in a spiral.
A padding between and beneath the splints was supplied by the reed (Phragmites) or other grass.
It is said that a paste mixed with this or some other grass, appropriately cut up, was sometimes used, the whole drying or setting between and beneath the splints and forming about the limb a sort of cast that was rigid and effective.
In one case of fracture of the leg observed under treatment by the writer, immobilization of the foot was secured by means of a flat piece of wood tied firmly against the sole by means of buckskin strings passing from the splintwork sheath.
In case of a wound from arrow or gunshot, a paste made by pounding or chewing up the root of the arrowroot {Balsamorhiza sagittata), ku'-si-a-ken-dsip, previously mentioned, among the food plants, was applied.
If the hemorrhage was severe, a ligature was applied on the central or proximal side where possible.
A tea made by twisting the juice from the roots of Mitella or related forms (to' -sa-na-tsu) was then given internally, the effect being to hasten elimination and purging.
Regarded as considerably more efficacious than the arrowroot was the root of Ferula multifida, to'-dzup, which is strong and rank in taste and smell.
It was, and still is, used in essentially the same way as the arrowroot, upon wounds, cuts or bruises where the skin was broken.
In case of compound fracture this was the application made to the wound in preference to all others.
The root for use, as observed by the author, was first minced with a knife and thoroughly ground to a pulp in a mortar or by crushing upon a clean smooth stone by means of another used as a pestle.
The paste was then smeared over the wound and bound in place.
It was used in dressing the wound throughout the progress of healing.
It seems especially to have been relied upon where there was infection or formation of pus.
Among other plants furnishing preparations used on wounds, cuts or sores were Cnicus eatoni, ai'-wa-bo-giip, and Gilia.
Among remedies supposed to have virtue in taking down swelling due to bruising or other causes may be mentioned first the roots of Valeriana edulis, which were pounded into a pulp and rubbed on externally.
Another was made by steeping the roots of Wyethia amplexicaidis, pi'-a-ken-dzip.
The flax (Linum perenne) furnished a preparation used in the same way, as did also the roots of Mentzelia Icevicaulis among various others.
One informant stated that cases of persistent oedema in the limbs were sometimes treated as follows.
By means of a sharp flint the affected member was cut or gashed in numerous places over the surface from one end to the other and allowed to bleed freely.
Next day the limb was ligatured proximally and a vein was located in a favorable position and opened by means of a pointed stick.
The blood was allowed to flow from the vein for some time, after which the wound was stopped and the entire limb then covered with a salve made from the roots of Valeriana or that constituting some other bai'-gwi-na-tsu, and thoroughly bandaged.
For the treatment of burns the most prized remedy was furnished by Spiraea ccespitosa, a shrubby prostrate plant forming dense mats over limestone rocks and clefts in the canyons.
The plant has fleshy roots and short matted branches upon which silky villous leaves are arranged in dense rosulate clusters.
The roots after being cleaned and freed of their epidermis by means of a knife were boiled in water until soft and readily reducible to a pulpy mass.
This is then ready for use, the wet, pulpy mass being smeared directly in a layer over the burned part and bandaged in place.
On fresh burns the pulp or salve was renewed usually four times each day.
The remedy is much valued and in cases observed by the author seemed efficacious.
A moss (Bryum) is said by some also to have been used on burns.
For the same purpose the green wood of the mountain mahogany was also sometimes charred, reduced to powder and, after moistening with water, applied to the wound.
A number of plants furnished materials used as remedies for rheumatism.
Such was Valeriana, toi'-ya-bit-um-ba-ga, above mentioned, the roots of which are pounded up and rubbed on the affected parts.
The common yarrow (Achilleia millefolium), loan'-go-gip, was also bandaged about affected joints, as were also the steeped leaves of the common sage-brush, po'-ho-bi.
Of remedies used for disorders of the alimentary tract there were many.
A remedy much valued for intestinal disorders of babies and infants, but also used with adults, often as a secondaiy treatment in cases of accidents or other bodily trouble, was obtained from the roots of several of the Saxifragacese, especially Heuchera, wi'-giin-dza, and Mitella, pi'-a-nank.
The medicine is purgative in action (koi'-na-tsu).
Because of the white color of the roots the preparation is commonly known as to' '-sa-na-tsu , meaning "white medicine."
It was given in the form of a decoction or tea.
Another similar remedy, used especially with children, was prepared from Arenaria triflora, var.
obtusa.
The wood of the choke-cherry (Primus demissa), to'-o-nump, was sometimes scraped and from the scrapings a decoction made which was also used in bowel disorder, in children more especially.
In some cases an emetic was given to relieve pain and effect restoration.
For this purpose the root of Silene multicaulis was said to have been used, this being mashed or ground up and drunk in warm water.
Another emetic was prepared from the poison sego (Zygadenus nuttalli), ta'-bvtci-gop.
In cases where a person was thought to be suffering from worms or other intestinal parasites the gum or resin from Pinus monophylla, wafi'-go, was sometimes put in boiling water and drunk as hot as could be borne.
The roots of Peucedanum graveolens, etc., i'-jaip, were used as a medicine called from the high value placed upon it pi'-a-na-tsu, a word meaning "great medicine."
This was used for affections of the throat by being reduced to a pulp and applied directly by means of a finger.
Sometimes a string was tied to a piece of the root and the latter then swallowed to be again drawn back out over the affected part by means of the string.
A decoction was also made from the root.
For colds, coughs and bronchial affections a favorite remedy was prepared from the leaves of the cedar (Juniperus), wa'-pi.
The leaves were boiled in water, the decoction being drunk hot.
During the winter season in families where there are children one is still likely to find a pot of cedar tea kept boiling over the fire.
A remedy for coughs and the colds and the accompanying headaches, etc., was prepared by some by making a decoction of cedar and sage-brush leaves in a tea from Mentha canadensis, pa'-gwo-nup.
A medicine used for biliousness with severe cold was a mixture of pi'-a-na-tsu, previously mentioned, a laxative or koi'-na-tsu, and the resin of the pine, a decoction of the three being prepared and drunk at intervals.
A tea prepared from the roots of Lithospermum pilosum and longiflorum tso'-ni-baip, was much used for kidney trouble.
It seems to be a strong diuretic.
The author has seen it used for this purpose also among the Utes.
It is regarded as very effective.
The Gosiutes had a considerable number of remedies severally regarded as efficacious in varying degrees in the curing of venereal diseases and affections in general of the sexual organs.
They are termed tim'-bai-na-tsu.
Among plants furnishing such remedies may be mentioned Parnassia fimbriata, Spircea millefolium, and Eriogonum ovalifolium.
The application was made for the most part externally in the form of a wash or as a preparation in a poultice.
A favorite remedy in cases of fever was furnished by the leaves of the common sage-brush {Artemisia tridentata), po'-ho-bi.
This plant was in early days and in many settlements still is similarly much used among the white people of this region.
Indeed, among many it is regarded almost as a panacea, being used for coughs and colds, rheumatism and other ailiments, as well as for fevers, the medicine sometimes being applied externally and sometimes taken internally, depending upon the affection.
In intermittent fevers, the white sage (Eurotia lanata), id' -cop, was considerably used.
Some Features of Word Formation in the Gosiute Language.
The primary stems of the Gosiute language are mostly verbal in character.
They are monosyllabic in form and are largely further reducible to significant elementary sounds.
The vowel sounds where capable of dissociation in this way represent general modes of motion which are modified or conditioned in definite ways by combination with consonants placed in the initial position.
Hence, leaving aside secondary and exotic factors, the vital, active part of the language is found to be especially vivid.
The verbs largely define themselves, and it is probably for this reason that it has seemed necessary for each verb or verbal combination to be set off or introduced by a general causal particle, ma.
In the composition of the primary stems to form secondary combinations and words, the more specific particles come first, those expressing the more general notions being final; i. e., the first syllables control and restrict the final ones.
The combination is thus such as clearly to suggest or to define the action or conception to be symbolized or represented.
In verbs the final syllable in the indefinite form is one that signifies some general action or mode of action.
N, -in or the more definite -kin are such endings representing in effect, making, producing or simply acting or doing; no indicates general motion or transportation, etc.
By means of such endings nouns are readily converted into verbs.
When a stem representing a noun in the objective or other relation is incorporated, it occupies the initial position in the verbal combination.
Some simple examples of verb formation follow : a, na, indicates movement or extension out or away from in a straight line, projection, etc.
a'-pi (a'-vi, ha'-bi), a secondary root derived from the preceding root + bi, (vi), meaning primarily to accumulate, to rest upon, etc.
Hence a'-pi means to rest or lie upon while extended, to stretch out upon, to lie down.
Used separately in speaking of persons the form of the verb becomes ha'-vi-do.
pa'-ha-bi-no, to swim.
This word is composed of pa, water, + ha'-bi, to lie or stretch out (as indicated above), + no, indicating motion.
ka'-ri-no, to ride sitting down.
Derived from ka'-ri-, to sit down, + no, indicating locomotion as in the preceding combination.
Applied to riding in train, wagon, etc., in a general way.
punf-ga-ri-no, to ride horseback.
From punf-go, horse, + ka'-ri-no, the preceding word.
ai'-no, to lope.
From ai, a root meaning to leap, to spring or to rebound, + no, indicating locomotion as in the preceding words.
pan' -go-In, to dive.
From pa, water, + go, a root meaning to penetrate, etc., + in.
ki'-wa-tso-kin, to cut with scissors.
From -gi'-wa, to bite or cut apart {gi, bite or cut in two, + wa, to press aside or apart, to separate), + tso, squeeze or press together, + kin, explained previously.
gwa'-ci-kin, to braid.
From gwa'-ci, tail, braid, etc., + kin, to make, etc.
ba'-hu-in, to smoke (as a cigarette).
From ba'-u, tobacco, + in, explained above.
Nouns, with which we are here chiefly concerned, are readily derived from verbs and verbal combinations through the use of suffixes which, like the verbal endings previously mentioned, designate general or class ideas.
Verbs are sometimes employed as nouns without the use of such suffixes.
Nouns compounded of simpler nouns or of other words are frequent.
In the plant names hereafter given it will be seen that one noun in such compounds frequently bears a possessive or adjectival relation to the principal.
In such cases this relation is indicated by the addition of n or of m or by using the particle tin or tim more discretely.
For example: ni'-am, my, mine.
From ni'-a, I, + m. ai'-tln-dain-ti, bore of a gun.
From ai'-ti, gun, + n, + dain'-ti, hole.
Tim'-pin-o-gwut, Provo River.
From tim'-pi, stone, + n, + o'-gwut, river.
Ai'-bvm-pa, Deep Creek.
From ai'-ba, clay, + m, + pa, water, stream; i. e., "clay water."
to'-go-un-go-na, Painted cup (Castilleia).
From to'-go-a, snake, + tin, + gu'-na, fire; i. e. ; "snake fire."
The more important noun suffixes occurring in plant names are indicated below in order.
1. tci, tsi (tc, ts).
A common ending in the names of living things or of the organs or parts of such.
In Gosiute it is more frequent in animal names.
It also occurs in plant names, but with nothing like the frequency to be noted in the Ute, where it is the commonest ending.
Examples : po'-ni-uts, skunk.
ytYml-tsi,' badger.
mu'-tu-nats, humming bird.
yu'-ro-gots, Rocky Mountain jaj^.
du'-i-tci, child, baby.
nan'-kv-tci, ear (also as nan'-kiis).
deutc, brother-in-law.
su'-go-pu-tsi, old man.
o'-tei, grandson.
See further under 3.
2. bi.
Indicates a living thing or part 01 a living thing.
In the former case commonly followed by the ending indicated under 1. as represented below under 3.
Examples: bi, the heart.
nam'-pi, foot.
From na, indicating support or bottom part, + m, + bi.
pam'-pi, head.
From pa, top, summit, + m, + bi.
tim'-pi, mouth.
From ti, referring to teeth or a cutting object, + m, + bi.
mam'-bi, hand.
mo'-bi, nose.
From mo, indicating protrusion, extension, etc., + bi.
3. bi'-tci, bite.
The preceding stem + the animate ending tci(tc).
Indicates a living individual or something regarded as such.
Very common in animal names, but only occasional in those of plants.
Examples : i'-a-bitc, gopher.
mom' -bite, owl.
iu'-ko-bxtc, wildcat.
we-gom-bitc, turkey buzzard.
pan'witc, fish.
4. up (ip, -p).
One of the commonest endings in plant names.
As a noun ending it indicates substance or material or simply thing or object; and, hence, in plant names it is often the practical equivalent of "plant."
In some plant names, in fact, the ending is clearly a modification of o'-pi, meaning wood, tree or plant, rather than the pure suffix up.
The regular suffix is mostly added to verbs, though it may also under certain conditions be added to nouns.
It is also added to verbs to indicate completion of an action forming one past tense or giving a participial effect.
Examples : ti'-kup, food.
From di'-ka-kin, to eat, + tip.
pa' -gin-xlp, cloud.
From pa' -gin, to make or produce water, + up.
wai'-up, charcoal.
From wai'-hin, to burn, + tip.
go' -up, enclosure, corral, trap, snare, etc.
From go, a root in its most frequent sense meaning to surround or to enclose, + up.
da'-pi-up, socks, hose.
From da'-pi, foot, + up.
5. ump.
Composed of the possessive um(m) + up{p).
The possessive would seem to belong primarily to a preceding noun, but the combination has acquired the character of a largely integral suffix with a definite and peculiar force.
It conveys usually the idea of a material used for some purpose.
It occurs frequently in the names of plants or of plant products used for food.
In some plant names, etc., it is likely the representative of the combination urn + ba, meaning seed, or + bi, rather than of the combination first indicated above.
Examples : tsi'-timp, rose berry.
From tsi'-o-pi, the rose (i. e., the plant), + ump; i. e., the part of the plant used for food, the fruit.
po'-gump, currant (the berry).
an'-ka-ti-wi-ump, the sumac berries (fruit of Rhus), so'-ko-ri-ump, the Oregon grape (the entire plant.
From so'-ko-ri, deer, -fump, the plant serving as food for the deer.
wi'-ump, haws.
6. na.
Used mostly as a prefix to designate a support, source, means or instrument.
Examples : na'-dzi-ta, cane, walking-stick or staff.
From na + dsi'-ta, a stick or rod for thrusting, etc.
na'-tse-ya, handle (as of a tea-cup).
From na + tse'-ya, to carry.
na'-gwa-na, perfume.
From na + gwa'-na-kin, to give out a smell or odor.
na'-di-ko.
bait.
From na + di'-ka-kin, to eat, + go, to enclose, to snare.
na'-dsa-to-wi, shell thrower (of a gun).
From na + dsa'-to, to draw or jerk out, + wi, iron or thing of iron.
7. niimp.
A combination of na and ump, the two preceding suffixes.
It is a very common noun ending used to indicate means or instrument.
Examples : ti'-ki-nvmp, table.
From di'-ka-kin, to eat, + niimp.
ka'-ri-nump, chair.
From ka'-ri-do, to sit down, + niimp.
go'-to-niimp, stove.
From ma-go'-lo, to heat, to make hot, to burn, + niimp.
tso'-ti-gi-nump, pillow.
From tso, particle referring to the hezd, + ma-ri'-gi, to lay or place upon, + nump.
go'-ti-nump, spear.
From ma-go'-tm, to stick or thrust into, + nump.
Some words recurring frequently in plant names may next be listed.
In compounds, of course, these words do not occur as a rule in their entirety, but are represented by one or more of the more significant syllables.
As examples of words frequently entering into names to indicate a color characteristic the following may be listed.
The form within parentheses represents the syllables ordinarily appearing in compounds.
to r -si-bit(to-sa~) , white.
tvf-o-bit (to), black.
dn'-ka-bit (dnka), red.
pu'-i-bxt (pui), green.
o'-a-bit (oa), yellow.
on'-ti-gait (onti), roan, etc.
ku'-tsip (ku-tsi), ashen, gray, etc.
Meaning primarily ashes and used in plant names especially to indicate the ashen or grizzly appearance due to thick growths of pubescence, etc.
Words indicating habitat occur with especial frequency in plant names.
ku'-tsip.
In addition to the force above explained, this word, in combination, may also indicate growth as being in dry soil, etc.
pa, water.
tim-pi (tim-pi, tin, ti), rock.
toi'-ya-bi (toi-ya), mountain.
toi'-ya-wiint, canyon.
The two following are very frequent in names of plants where it is desired to indicate size, especially where there are several closely related forms to be discriminated and size represents a prominent difference.
pi'-Up (pi-a, pi), large, tall.
ti'-ai-qu-tsi, ti'du-tsi (ti-a, ti-da), small, short, etc.
Naturally we find in plant names syllables representing or indicating some particular part or feature of the plant.
ba, bi-a, seed, fruit.
gup, pod, seed vessel, fruit.
o'-pi, wood.
a'-ka, si'-a-ka, stem, shoot, etc.
si'-gi, leaf.
wa'-tsip, bark.
ai'-go-gunt, thorn.
ai'-di-wis, wi'-sa, spine, prickle.
A few of the more frequently occurring words used in plant names to indicate relations or characters other than those indicated above are these : na'-tsu, medicine.
I'-ca, wolf, and, secondarily, false.
wu'-da, bear.
pim'-go, horse.
tai'-bo, white-man, this being frequent in names more recently devised to indicate forms introduced into the region since the advent of the whites.
The more general terms used by the Gosiutes to indicate plant groups were largely and primarily indicative of habitat, the ecological relations seeming most obtrusive to their minds.
Next to the ecological relations, the economic seemed to have influence and we find groupings based upon uses in medicine and as foods.
As examples of names applied to plants according to habitat may be mentioned the following.
pa'-bu-ip, applied to any plant floating upon water.
From pa, water, + bo(po), root, indicating position upon surface of, floating, rising, etc., + -up or possibly o'-pi.
tim'-bo-ip, applied to any plant growing upon or over rocks, etc.
From tvm, referring to rock as above explained, + bo, as in the preceding, -f -up.
■ toi'-ya-da-tsip, applied to a shrub growing on mountain or in canyon.
pan'-di-sip, applied to a plant growing submerged in water.
From pan, aquatic, + dl'-si-, meaning to penetrate or thrust into or beneath, + -up.
It is also applied to animals, such as waterbeetles, living beneath water.
1911.]
natural sciences op philadelphia.
47 Catalogue and Vocabulary.
In the case of the great majority of the plants dealt with in these pages, the Gosinte names have been tested repeatedly in order, so far as possible, to eliminate errors and to determine the standard and pure as distinguished from the occasional and extraneous.
The work has been carried on largely as recreation at different seasons of the year ; and at these various times tests have been made through various better informed men and women of the Skull Valley division of the tribe, these being consulted both singly and in groups.
However, there remains a certain number of species the names and uses of which I have not as yet been able to test in a way wholly satisfactory to myself.
The Gosiute plant names, like our own popular ones, with which they are properly to be compared, are frequently generic rather than specific in compass and, naturally, may sometimes apply to species lying in technically different though usually closely allied genera.
In some cases they are the practical equivalents of popular English names, while in others they are distinctly different in scope from these or may be without any name in our language at all corresponding, for a large proportion of the native plants in the West are as yet without popular designations of any sort.
It often happens that one single kind of plant is known under two or more names to the Gosiutes.
In such cases one name is commonly more comprehensive than the other and applicable likewise to various other related or supposedly related forms, while the other may be strictly applicable only to the species under consideration.
Then, again, the same plant may be regarded 1 from different points of view, classed on correspondingly different bases, and so come to be designated under several class or generic names indicating these several relations.
Thus, it may be regarded as to its habitat, as to its structure or appearance, as to its service to man or animal as food, or as medicine, etc.
It may bear a different name indicative of each of these relations in addition to that which may be regarded as in a measure specific and restricted to it alone.
The restriction in use of a name depends much upon the commonness or importnce of the plant, there being different names even for closely related species in many cases — proportionately much more numerous than is the rule among our own people.
In ordinary conversation among the Gosiutes a long plant name may frequently be shortened through the omission or dropping out of one or more syllables.
Such abbreviations may result in changes in the remaining syllables thus brought into different relations to each other through the operation of definite^ phonetic laws, as of rhythm in quantity, etc., which cannot be here considered.
There may thus result from one original name several current forms.
The values of the letters used in recording Gosiute words in the present paper are approximately those of the Smithsonian alphabet and are essentially as follows : a is pronounced as in far or as in the German lachen.
a is sounded like a in the English word fat, etc.
e is pronounced as in they or as in the German Dehnung.
e is pronounced as in then or as in the German denn.
i is pronounced as in pique or as in the German ihn.
1 is sounded as in pit or as in the German dick.
o is pronounced as in vote or as in the German Bogen.
u is pronounced as in rule or as in the German du.
u is pronounced as in but.
ii is pronounced as in the German miide or as u in the French lune.
ai is sounded as in the German Kaiser or as i in bite.
oi is pronounced as in boil.
c is pronounced like sh in shall, etc.
d, f, h, k, 1, m, n, p, r, s, t, y and z are given their ordinary sounds in English.
g is pronounced as in gig or as in the German geben.
n is pronounced like ng in sing.
q is pronounced like ch in German lachen, Dach, etc.
dj is pronounced like j in judge.
tc is pronounced like ch in church or like c in the Italian cielo.
Nasalized vowels are indicated by a small superior n ; thus a n , etc.
Attention should be called to the essential equivalence and, within the limits marked by certain phonetic rules, the interchangeability (1) of k and g; (2) of t, d, and r; and, less completely, (3) of n and m. Of the letters or sounds of the second group, t is most commonly initial in position and r and d internal.
Latin or Scientific Names with Popular and Gosiute Equivalents.
Acer glabrum Torr.
Maple, pa'-go-ni-up.
[Probably from pa, water, + ku'-ni-up, oak.]
Abies menziesii Lindl.
Balsam, sa'-nan-go-bi.
[sa-na-, gum, pitch, etc., + an'-go-bi, spruce.]
1911.]
49 Abronia fragrans Nutt.
Sand Puff.
ta'-ka-di-da-rup.
Achillea millefolium L. Yarrow, wan'-go-gip.
Used commonly among the Gosiutes in the form of a tea for biliousness, headache, etc.
Also applied externally for rheumatism and sometimes on bruises.
Aconitum fischeri, etc.
Monkshood ; Aconite, i'-ca-bo-gop.
[Probably from I'-ca, wolf, and secondarily, deceptive, false, baneful, + bo-gop, fruit, berry, the name referring to poisonous properties as a result of which horses eating it sometimes die.]
Acorn.
ku'-ni-ro-iunp.
[ku'-ni-up, oak, + ro + up.]
See further under Quercus.
Actcea spicata L. Baneberry.
toi'-y a-ba-gwo-no-gip .
Agaricussp.
Mushroom.
so'-ai-tump.
Agropyrum repens Beau v. Bluejoint.
tcun-ga. o -ro-rop.
o'-ro.
o'-do.
The seeds of this grass were among those formerly used as food.
Allium bisceptrum Watson and acuminatum Hook.
Wild Onion.
4 Bulbs eaten in spring and early summer.
Not preserved for later use.
Alnus incana Willd.
Alder.
u'-gu-dzup.
Alopecurus aristulatus Mx.
Foxtail grass, ti -so-nip.
t%+ so'-nip, grass.
Amarantus sp.
Amaranth.
ats.
Seeds formerly eaten.
Constituted an important source of food.
Ambrosia psilostachya DC.
Ragweed, tu'-ro-sip.
[The name seems to mean black sap; tu'-o-bit, tu'-rovi, black, + sip, sap, juice, etc.]
Occasionally used as a remedy for sore eyes.
For this purpose the leaves were steeped in hot water and bandaged over the affected organ.
The same name was often applied to Iva axilaris, q. vid.
Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt.
Service-berry ; June-berry, ti'-um-pi.
The berries formed a very important source of food among the Gosiutes, being used both in season and preserved in large quantities for winter use.
For preservation the berries were mashed and dried as 50 [Feb., previously described.
If the berrying grounds were not too far distant from the winter encampment, the dried berries were cached on the spot to be obtained during the winter as needed or to be transported at a more favorable time to a more accessible position.
This plant also furnished the material preferred for arrows and for the framework of cradles and other forms of basketry.
Amsinckia tesselata.
ku'-hwa.
tso'-hamp.
Seeds formerly eaten.
Anaphalis margaritacea Benth.
and Hook.
Everlasting.
mo'-ha-gup.
Androsace septentrionalis L. ?
ka'-na.
Cf.
Lewisia.
Anemone multifield Poir.
Windflower, toi'-y a-mo-ha-giip .
Angelica pinnata Watson.
pa'-si-gwup.
Occasionally spoken of as ku'-i-gwa-nup, but incorrectly so, according to best informed Indians.
Roots used as medicine.
Antennaria dioica Gaertn.
Everlasting, toi'-ya-na-tsu.
[toi'-ya-bi, mountain, + na'tsu, medicine.]
?ku'-yi-ko-nup.
ku'-yi-gwa-nup.
Said by one ' informant to have been used in cases of snow-blindness, being steeped in water and bandaged over the eyes.
The first name is probably not wholly specific.
Aphyllon fasciculatum T. and G. Cancer-root, po'-ho-ru.
\jpo'-ho-bi, sage-brush, + ru, ru'a, son.]
The name is given in reference to the fact that this plant is commonly found growing parasitically upon the roots of the sage-brush ; hence, "son of the sagebrush."
The entire plant was sometimes eaten.
Aplopappus macronema Gray and parryi Gray, trm'-bi-mo-a-gwa-nup.
Aplopappus suffruticosus Gray (sometimes also macronema, the preceding form), toi'-ya-ba-hwip.
toi'-ya-ba-o-pi.
The name means in effect simply "mountain plant," and is not wholly specific.
Apocynum androsaemifolium L. Dogbane; Indian Hemp, wu'-da-wa-nup.
[wu'-da, bear, + iva'-nup, rope, string, fiber, etc., the name referring to the 1911.]
51 strong fiber obtainable from this plant.]
Fiber of hemp obtained from.
Cf.
name Indian Hemp.
Aquilegia coerulea James.
Columbine.
pa'-wa-gump.
pa'-o-gum-pi.
Informants stated that plant furnished a medicine that acted on the heart.
Seeds were sometimes chewed as medicine; and a tea made from the roots was used for abdominal pains and when one was "sick all over," as it was broadlyput.
Arabis holboelli Hornem.
Rock Cress, si'-bo-i-up.
Cf .
Cleome lutez, to which the name is also applied.
Arabis retrofracta Grah.
Rock Cress, pi'-a-poi-na.
pi'-a-si-bo-i-up.
[pi'-up, big, large, + si'-boi-up.]
Arctium lappa L. Burdock, mu'-pa-tai-gi-nup.
The burdock is an introduced plant, and the name above given is used only by a limited portion of the Gosiutes, having been formed rather recently.
Arenaria biflora.
Sandwort, tim'-bo-ip.
This is a very general term indicative of habitat as previously explained.
Arenaria congesta Nutt.
Sandwort.
Classed as a koi'-na-tsu, or bowel medicine.
Arenaria tri flora var.
obtusa Watson.
Sandwort, wi'-dcan-gwo-d cop .
[wi'-dca, pine-hen, + n, + gwo'-dcop.]
toi'-yan-tim-ba-dzap.
Like the preceding, classed as a koi'-na-tsu.
Argemone mexicana var.
hispida Gray.
Prickly Poppy, pa'ra-ti-tsm-bo-gop.
toi'yan-bo-gop.
Apparently a somewhat general descriptive term.
Aristida purpurea Nutt.
Tripleawned Grass.
yo'-nip.
o'-gwip.
toi'ya-o-gwip.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, + o'gwip.]
Arnica cordifolia Hook.
ta'ni-kump.
Arnica parry i Gray, mo'ha-giip.
Cf.
Anaphalis.
Artemisia biennis Willd.
pi'a-wa-da.
[pi' tip + wa'da.]
wa'da.
on'tim-pi-awa.
on'tim-pi-a-wa-da.
[on'tim, brown, roan, + pi'awa-da.]
The seeds formerly exten52 sively gathered and used as food.
Artemisia discolor Dougl.
and trifida Nutt.
ku'tsi-pa-wa-tsip.
ku'tsi-pa-wats.
ku'tsi-pa-hwats.
[ku'tsip, ashes, ashen or gray, etc., + pa'wa-tsip, or its shortened forms, pa'wats or pa'hwats, as in the name of the following species.]
Seeds formerly eaten as with the preceding form.
Artemisia, dracunculoides Pursh.
pa'wats.
pa'hwats.
The seeds of this plant are oily and nutritious.
Formerly much gathered as food.
Said to have formed a favorite dish.
Artemisia tridentata Nutt.
Sagebrush, po'ho-bi.
A tea made from the leaves of this excessively abundant plant was much used as a medicine in febrile conditions, etc.
The leaves were also used as a covering over berries and other foods preserved in caches.
Asclepiodora decumbens Gray.
?pi'wa-nup.
A chewing gum said to have been made from latex.
Aster adscendens Lindl.
Aster; starwort.
pa-oto'-ga. [Feb., Astragalus iodanthus Watson.
Rattle-weed ; Buffalo-bean, na'da-pa-ra-na-giint.
da'pa-rai-nump.
The name refers to the shoeshaped legumes.
Astragalus junceus Gray.
Rattleweed.
One of the puii'go-na-tsu or horse medicines, as which it is said to have been valued.
The name is from pun' go, horse, and na'tsu, medicine.
Astragalus utahensis T. and G. Rattleweed.
to'sa-wu-da.
[to'sa, -to'si-bit, white, + wu'da, bear, a name apparently suggested by the dense white woolly covering of this plant and its legumes.]
ti'a-sa-ton-dzi.
Atriplex canescens James, dsi'cup.
Seeds eaten.
Atriplex confertifolia Watson.
sun.
su'no.
• Tka'num-pi.
The seeds were formerly eaten, this and other species of Atriplex forming one of the most important sources of seed food.
This and the related forms frequently occur in the region over great areas.
The seeds were gathered in the same 1911.]
53 manner as those of grasses as previously described.
Atriplex truncata Torr.
a'po.
Seeds used as food as with the preceding species.
Avena sativa L. Oat.
o'a-tump.
Apparently from English oat + ilmp.
Balsa morrhiza hooked Nutt.
o'a-kitmp.
?mo'a-kump.
a'ken-dzlp.
wi'a-ken-dzip.
Seeds used as food.
Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt.
Arrowroot, ku'si-a-ken-dzip.
[ku'tsip, ashen, gray, + a'kendzip.]
ku'si-ak.
Shortened form of the preceding word, a'ken-dzip.
This brilliantly flowered plant, which is abundant over the hills and mountain sides throughout the Gosiute territory, was formerly of much economic importance to them.
In the spring the large leaves and their petioles were boiled and eaten.
Later, when the seeds were ripe, these were beaten out of the heads into baskets and used as food as in the case of those of Helianthus.
The root was used as a remedy upon fresh wounds, being chewed or pounded up and used as a paste or salve upon the affected part .
Bark.
wa'tsip.
Beckmannia cruciformis Host.
Slough Grass, u'gii-pi.
u'gup.
Berberis repens Lindl.
Oregon Grape, so'ko-ri-iimp.
[so'ko-ri, deer, + ump, indicating food, etc.
Hence "deer food."]
Berula angustifolia Koch, a'tam-bl-tcup.
Betula occidental is Hook.
Birch, u'di-iip.
Bigelovia douglasii Gray.
Rabbitbrush ; Rayless Goldenrod, si'bii-pi.
The chewing-gum most highly valued among the Gosiutes was prepared from this plant as previously described.
Bigelovia pulchella Gray.
Rabbitbrush ; Rayless Goldenrod, ta'bi-si-bii-pi.
[ta'bi, sun, + si'bu-pi, a name of B. douglasii, the preceding species, regarded as the typical Bigelovia.]
ta'bi-si-pomp.
[ta'bi, sun, + pam'pi, head 54 [Feb., (probably); "sun-head."
Cf.
our name sun-flower.]
Branch (shoot), si'un-gun.
si'a-ka.
Bromus breviaristatus Thurb., etc.
Brome Grass, to'bai-bi.
to'pai-bi.
to'ho-bai-bi.
to'ho-bi.
Seeds formerly eaten.
Brizopyrum spicatum Hooker.
ku'so-nip.
Bryum sp.
Moss, so'-go-ba-gwip.
so'-ko-ri-bo-ump.
[In the first name so-go means earth.
In the second so'-ko-ri means deer, the reference being to the eating of the moss by this animal.]
Bud.
i'-gi-si-a-ka.
[From i-gi, present, initial, si'-a-ka, sprout, branch, etc.]
Calochortus nuttalliTorr.
and Gray.
Sego.
si'-go.
The common name for this attractive lily is taken from the Indian name.
In the spring and early summer the bulbs of the sego were formerly much used as food by the Gosiutes, constituting a standard source at that time of the year.
The bulbs were also dried and preserved for winter use in the usual type of pit or " cellar."
Camassia esculenta Lindl.
Cam ass.
pa'-si-go.
As with the preceding form, the bulbs of this plant were formerly a prized source of food.
The bulbs of this plant were likewise preserved for winter use.
They were usually cooked by roasting in pits lined with hot stones.
Cardamine cor di folia Gray.
Bitter Cress.
?mo-a-gwa-nup.
Carex hookeriana Dew.
Sedge, ai'bi-baip.
[Prob.
ai'ba, clay, + baip (?from ba + up).]
Carex jamesii Torr., fistira, muricata, etc.
Sedge.
.
pa'gi-gip.
Carex utriculata Boott.
Sedge.
pa'gi-gip.
pai'grp.
ai'bi-baip.
[ai'ba, clay, + pa, water, + -up.]
Children sometimes eat lower tender stems and parts of roots.
Carex sp.
Sedge, pa'ra-we-ce-gop.
Roots rarely usecHasJmedicine.
Carum carui.
a'pa.
?tin , ta.
1911.]
55 Carum gairdneri Benth.
and Hook, yam'pa.
yamp.
The fleshy roots of this plant furnished a food very important to the Gosiutes and related Indians and one of which they were especially fond.
The plant is widely distributed and occurs abundantly in the mountains.
The roots were commonly prepared by roasting in a pit lined with hot stones.
They were preserved in quantity for winter use.
Castilleia miniata Dougl.
Indian Paint-brush; Painted Cup.
koi'cli-gip.
Also spoken of sometimes as to'go-un-go-na; but this name more frequently restricted to the next species.
Castilleia parviflora Bong, and minor Gray.
Indian Paintbrush; Painted Cup.
to'go-un-go-na.
[From to'go-a, snake, rattlesnake, + lin, + gun, gu'na, fire.
Hence, " snake fire."]
Catkin, pistillate, of willows, etc.
bi'a-gint.
[Apparently bi'a, ha, seed, etc., + kin, + t.] Catkin, staminate, of willow, etc.
i'dcum-um-bu-i.
Ceanothus velutinus Dougl.
New Jerse}^ Tea.
a'di-riim-bip.
a'di-rum-b lp-an-ka-sip .
[a'di-rum-bip + ah'ka-bit, red, + sip.]
Cercocarpus ledifolius.
Mountain Mahogany.
tu'nam-pi.
tu'niimp.
The wood of the mountain mahogany was the favorite material among the Gosiutes for bows.
Powdered charcoal made from the green wood was used by some on burns.
Cercocarpus parvif alius Nutt.
Mountain Mahogany, tu'hi-nup.
Chaenactis douglasii Hook, and Arn.
wan'gin-gip.
?ko'si-bo-qun-tos.
Sometimes minced or mashed up and rubbed on limbs, etc., for soreness or aching.
Chenopodium capitatum Watson.
Goose-foot; Pigweed, kum'iin-tsi-a.
[Prob.
hum, rabbit, + un, + tsi'a.]
??pa'gwo-nup.
Seeds formerly gathered for food, this species being the source of a large supply.
Chenopodium leptophyllum Nutt.
Pigweed ; Goose-foot, i'u-pi.
Seeds served as food as with the preceding species.
Chenopodium rubrum L. and capitatum Watson.
Pigweed; Goose-foot 56 [Feb., on'tim-pi-wai.
[on'ti-gait, roan, etc., the name referring to color of ripe fruiting.]
kum'un-tsi-a.
Seeds formerly eaten.
Chrysopsis villosus Nutt., etc.
Golden Aster, toi'ya-di-sas.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, etc., + di'sas.]
?
tu'go-wa-tsip.
Cinna arundinacea var.
pendula Gray.
Wood Reed Grass, to'bai-bi.
Seeds gathered for food.
Claytonia caroliniana var.
sessilifolia Torr.
Springbeauty, dzi'na.
Bulbs used as food.
The same name is sometimes applied to the cultivated potato (vid.
sub Solarium).
Claytonia perfolidta Donn.
pa'gwo-dziip.
?pa'bu-ip.
The second name a general term designating habitat, as previously described and probably not correctly applied to the present species.
Clematis dougiasii Hook.
Clematis; Virgin's Bower, o'bm-da-ma-nump.
?a'ra-si-mu.
Clematis ligusticufolia Nutt.
Clematis; Virgin's Bower, o'bin-da-ma-nump.
Furnished a medicine.
Cleome integrifolia Torr.
and Gray, a'na-gwa-nivp.
bi'tci-gwa-nup.
Leaves formerly pounded up in water and applied as a remedy to sore eyes.
Cleome lutea Hook, si'bo-i-up.
Occasionally spoken of under the same name as the preceding.
Cnicus drummondi Gray.
Plumed Thistle, tin'tsin-ga. tsiii'ga.
tsi'na.
Portions of stems formerly eaten.
Cnicus eatoni Gray.
Thistle, po'gwo.
po'go.
ai'wa-bo-gop.
ai'gwa-bo-gop.
Also sometimes spoken of under second name of the and its variants.
Used as a remedy on cuts and sores.
Stems eaten.
Probably the thistle most used as food.
Cnicus undidatus Gray.
Plumed Thistle, pa'bo-go.
Also as tsin'ga, etc.
Stems eaten.
Commandra pallida A. DC.
Bastard Toad-flax, tlm'bo-ip.
A general term.
1911.]
57 Cor nits stolon if era Mich. v. Kinnikinnic; Dogwood, an'ka-kwi-niip.
aiVka-koi-niip.
[Cf.
the Shoshoni dn'ka-sib.
The name refers to the red color of the shoots.]
The inner bark of this plant, most commonly called kinnikinnic in the West, was formerly much smoked as tobacco.
It was often mixed with ordinary tobacco when the latter was procurable.
Its effect was mentioned by one Gosiute as being not a little like that of opium.
The wood was sometimes used in the making of snow-shoes.
Cone, of Pinus.
ti'ba-un-gop.
The name is from li'ba, pine nut, + un, + gop, pod or seed-vessel.
Cowania mexicana Don.
Cliff Rose, hi'na-bi.
Leaves used as medicine.
Cratcegus oxycanthus.
Thorn, bi'tcip.
Cratcegus rivularis Nutt.
Haws, wi'um-pi.
wi'ump.
Crepis glauca Torr.
and Gray, mu'tci-gi.
mu'tci-gip.
mu'ha-ti-bu-i.
Leaves said sometimes to have been eaten.
Crepis occidental is Nutt.
mo'a-mu-i-tci-gip.
mo'a-mu-i-tci-gi.
Cymopterus longipes Watson.
an-dzup.
[Cf.
Shoshoni toi'yan-diip.]
The leaves of this plant, so abundant and widespread in this region, formed a common article of food in the spring.
They were prepared by boiling.
Cymopterus montanus Torr.
and Gray, tu'na.
Seeds and underground parts eaten, but not the leaves, as was done with the preceding form.
Cystopteris fragilis Bernh.
Fern, pa'sa-gwup.
Delphinium bicolor Nutt.
and Menziesii D.C. Larkspur, pa'ga-sau-wi-no-up .
tu'ku-ba-giimp.
The second name refers to the deep blue flowers (tu'kum, the sky, and hence blue, etc.).
Recognized as poisonous.
Deschampsia ccespitosa Beauv.
var.
Hair Grass, toi'ya-so-nip.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, + so' nip, grass.]
toi'ya-si-wiimp.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, + • si'wump, q.
vid.]
Seeds eaten.
58 [Feb., Deschampsia danthonioides Munro.
Hair Grass, mo'no.
?3ro / ni-so-nip.
Deyeuxia canadensis Beauv.
and stricta Trin.
Reed Bent Grass, ni'a-bip.
an'go-ma-tai-yu.
an'go-ma-tsai-yu .
[an'go-bi, spruce, + ma'tsaiyu.]
Dodeeathion meadia L. Shooting Star.
pa'bu-ip.
Dracocephalum parviflorum Nutt.
Dragon-head, toi'ya-ba-gwa-mip.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, or toi'yawint, canyon, + pa'gwanup, mint, which see further.]
The same name also applied to the related forms Lophanthus urticifolius and Scutellaria .
Seeds gathered as food.
Echinospermum redowskii Lehm., floribundum Lehm., etc.
Stickseed.
tso'nap.
This same name was applied to various borraginaceous plants in about the same way as our own English popular name "stickseed."
Eleocharis palustris R. Br.
Spikerush, wan'dzi-baip.
By some occasionally loosely spoken of as ba'hwap, which is correctly the name for Juncus.
Elymus canadensis L. Wild Rye.
ti'wa-bi-nip.
o'ro-rop.
o'ro.
o'do.
Seeds formerly gathered for food.
Elymus sibiricus L. Wild Rye; Lyme Grass.
o'ro-rop .
o'ro.
o'do.
B} r some also spoken of loosely as ni'a-bi, q. vid.
Seeds used for food.
Epilobium alpinum L. Willowherb, u'sa.
Epilobium coloratum Muni.
Willow-herb, tu'si-grp.
The name refers to the black seeds.
Epilobium spicatum L. Willowherb, pa'ga-so-nap.
Epipactis gigantea Dougl.
wan'di-wa-svimp.
wan'di-wa-sip.
Equisetum hiemale L. Scouring Rush, i'sa-yu-gip.
Name refers to use made of plant by Indian chi dren for whistles.
Erigeron canadensis L. Fleabane.
?on't lm-pi-wa-tsip .
?on'tim-pi-wai.
This name probably not cor1911.]
59 rectly applied to this form, being by nearly all restricted to species of Chenopodium.
Erigeron glabellus Nutt.
var.
Fleabane, ti'sas.
di'sas.
toi'ya-di-sas.
toi'di-sas.
toi'ya-da-ti-go-ra.
Erigeron grandiflorus Hook.
Fleabane, ta'kan-di-di-a-giip.
ta'kan-di-d ai-gup .
The root is said to have been used in the preparation of an arrow poison.
[ta'ka, arrow, + di'di-a-kin, to kill, etc., gop, gup, snare, means of securing, etc.]
Erigeron leiomerus Gray.
Fleabane, pu'i-di-sas.
[pu'i-bit, blue, violet, etc., + dt'sas.]
ti'-sas.
di'sas (cf.
sub E. glabellus).
?toi / ya-ta-son-dzi.
Erigeron macranthus Nutt.
Fleabane, pa'un-ga. kai'si-na-bop.
The name mo'a-gup is often applied in a general way to various fleabanes by some Gosiutes.
Eriogonum brevicaulis Nutt.
pu'i-wa-nup.
Eriogonum cozspitosum Nutt.
thn'pi-tim-bo-i-ump.
Eriogonum cernuum Nutt.
oi'tcu-mo.
[oi'tcu, bird, + mo' a, (prob.)
leg; given in reference to the peduncle which resemble slender bird legs with toes at top.]
oi'tcu-yo.
Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt.
bi'tca-mok.
Name refers to handlike appearance of peduncles and rays, o'a-pa-dza-ki.
Eriogonum inflatum Torr.
oi'tcu-mo.
oi'tcu-o.
oi'tcu-yo (cf.
sub E. cernuum } etc.).
?pi'a-ga. Eriogonum microihecum Nutt.
and several others closely related, sa'na-kiin-da.
sa'na-ktint.
an'ka-w a-d z limp .
Eriogonum ovalifolium Nutt.
Silver Plant, sa'na-kiin-da.
sa'na-kunt.
One of the tim'bai-na-tsu.
Also an eye medicine and occasionally used for "stomach-ache."
Eriogonum umbdlatum Torr.
sa'na-kiin-da.
sa'na-kunt (cf.
precedingspecies) .
o'a-pa-dza-ki.
Eriogonum, villiflorum.
toi'gu-pa-gint.
60 [Feb., Said to have been used on burns, but this statement not confirmed.
Erodium cicutarium L'Her.
Stork's Bill; Alfilaria.
y am'pa-gwa-nup .
Apparently from yam'pa (q.
vid.).
Cf.
gwa'nwp, odor, etc.
Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh.
Dog-tooth Violet, toi'ya-wi-tum-ba-ga. Euphorbia montana Engelm., dentata Michx., etc.
mo'a-ba-bu-ip.
?toi'ya-ba-bu-ip.
Eurotia lanaia Moq.
White Sage, tci'cop.
Used as a remedy in intermittent fevers.
Ferula multifida Gray, to'dziip.
The young shoots of this plant are said sometimes to have been eaten, but never the grown plant or old parts, which were far too strong in taste.
The roots furnished a remedy .
highly esteemed as an application on wounds and bruises.
For this purpose the roots are first sliced or minced and then thoroughly mashed to a pulp on a stone.
It was then ready to be spread upon the affected part.
The author saw it thus applied to an Indian's foot that had been crushed under the wheel of a wagon.
Regarded also as an excellent remedy for distemper in horses among the Utes and Gosiutes.
The procedure is to burn the roots in a pan held beneath the nose of the sick horse so that the latter shall inhale the smoke.
The seeds are said occasionally to have been eaten.
Festuca tenella Willd.
Fescue Grass, si'wump.
yo'ni-so-nip (Goship.
Cf.
Glyceria).
Seeds served as food.
Festuca ovina L. var.
brevifolia Watson.
Fescue grass, toi'ya-si-wump.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, + si'wump.]
tl'sa-hump.
yo'ni-so-nip (Goship.
Cf.
preceding form and Glyceria).
Occasionally this and preceding form are mentioned as to'bai-bi (see Poa).
Seeds eaten.
Flower (general term), hi'bin-giip.
Fragaria vesca L. Strawberry, an'ka-pa-ri-ump.
[an'ka-bit, red, + pa, pa'ri, water, watery, + -ump; "red water berry."]
Franseria hookeriana Gray, pi'a-tso-hwa.
1911.]
61 Fritillaria pudica Spreng.
Buttercup; Yellow Bell.
wina-go.
Bulbs formerly eaten to some extent.
Galium aparine L.
var., and relatives.
Bedstraw.
Said to be one of the piin'gona-tsu or horse medicines, but no more specific named could be recalled by informants.
Said by one to be good for horses when " give out"; but author has no information beyond this statement.
Geranium fremonti Torr.
Wild Geranium; Crane's Bill.
ka'na-gwa-na.
pa'hu-ip.
Decoction made from root used in diarrhoea, etc.
The remedy is an active and effective astringent.
It may be remarked that a species of the same genus was formerly much used for similar purposes in our own medical practice and that by many it was as such highly esteemed.
Gilia aggregate, Spreng., etc.
mu'tu-nats-iim-bi-ji.
[mu'tu-ruits, humming-bird, -f urn, possessive, + bi'dci, milk, nourishment; "hummingbird's milk or nectar."
Names applied also to several other related forms, such as Zauschneria.]
Gilia gracilis Hook and linearis Gray, i'am-bip.
[Prob.
i'a, wound, + m, + Up.]
Said formerly to have been mashed up and applied on wounds and bruises.
Glycerin ceroides Thurber.
Manna Grass, si'wump.
yo'ni-so-nip (Goship.
Cf.
Festuca).
Cf.
Festuca, to which name is also applied.
Glyceria is apparently the typical or standard form.
Seeds formerly an important source of food.
Glyceria aquatica Smith.
Reed Meadow Grass.
kiim'a-ra-si-yu-gip.
pa'si-wiimp.
[pa, water, + si'wump, q.
vid.
: water si'wump in reference to habitat in wet ground and along streams.]
Seeds used as food.
Glyceria nervata Trin.
tai'gwi-bi.
si'wump.
?pa / si-wiimp (cf.
preceding form).
Seeds eaten.
Glaux maritima L. Sea-Milkwort.
pa'ru-sip.
?o'ta-bi-da.
Geum rosii Ser.
Said by one i'a-na-tsu.
to be an 62 [Feb., Geum macrophyllum Willd.
nin'un-tsai.
Decoction from roots used as medicine.
Glycosma occidentalis Nutt.
pi'a-po-gop.
?pa'si-gwip.
Cf.
Osmorrhiza and Angelica, which are also called by the same name, the former probably being the pa'sigwip proper.
Gnaphalium sprengelii Hook, and Arn.
Cudweed, nan'te-bitc.
toi'ya-da-ti-bu-da toi'ya-da-ti-bu-da-go-ra.
Grass (general term).
so'nip.
Grayia polygaloides Hook and Arn.
Shad Scale, kan'giim-pi.
Grindelia squarrosa Dunal.
Gum Plant; Arnica, mu'ha-kiim.
Cf.
further the use of this term as indicated in Gosiute list.
A cough medicine is made from the roots among the Utes, but the author has no information of such use among the Gosiutes.
However, itwasquite likely used.
Gutierrezia euthamice Torr.
and Gray.
Torch-weed; Rabbit-brush, ku'ki-koi-niimp .
Gymnolomia multi flora Benth.
and Hook, mo'ta-qa.
I'ca-mo-ta-qa.
[i'ca, false, + mo'ta-qa.]
Seeds formerly eaten.
Hedysarum mackenzii Richard, pa'sa-ton-dzip.
[Prob.
pa'sa, dry, + ton'tso, clover, + up,] pi'o-ra.
[pi'iip, large, long, + o'ra, stem.]
Helenium autumnale L. Sneezeweed, tfda-ya-gup.
trya-gup.
mo'ta-qa.
mu'ta-qa.
Helenium hoopesii Gray.
Sneezeweed; Sneezewort.
ti'da-ya-gup.
trya-gup.
toi'ya-mo-ta-qa.
Helianthella uniflora Torr.
and Gray, mu'ha-kiimp.
mo'ha-kiimp.
pi'a-pa-ot-qa.
[pi'up, large, + pa-ot'-qa, q.
vid.]
Helianthus annuus L. Sunflower, i'um-pi.
The seeds of the sunflower formed a highly prized source of food and oil among the Gosiutes.
The seeds, when ripe, were beaten out of the heads into baskets by means of paddles or by means of the ordinary collecting baskets previously described.
1911.]
63 Heracleum lanatum Michx.
CowParsnip.
ko'no-gwip.
Heiichera rubescens Torr.
and related species.
Alumroot.
wi'giin-dza.
pa'sa-wi-gun-dza.
The roots of this plant and closely related forms, including especially the species of Mitella, used as a remedy for colic, etc., in babies and children.
The properties of the roots are generally astringent.
The preparation from the root is commonly spoken of as : to'sa-na-tsu, a word meaning "white medicine," in reference to its color.
It is used in the form of a tea or decoction.
It is still constantly used and is highly valued.
Hieracium gracilis Hook and scouleri Hook.
Hawkweed.
mu'tci-gi.
mo'tci-gi.
Holodiscus discolor var.
dumosa Maxim.
ku'si-wup.
tin'go-ip.
tiii'-gwip.
Hordeum nodosum L. and jubatum L. Barley.
kwa'tci-up.
kan'kwai-tcup.
Humidus Vwpulus L. Hop.
wa'mip.
wa'na-na-tsa-mo-gi.
u'na-tso-mo-gi.
bi'tca-mok.
?Seeds sometimes mixed in small amounts with the meal or flour prepared from seeds of grasses, etc., prepatory to baking into cakes.
Hydrophyllum occidentale Gray and capitatum.
Waterleaf.
toi'ya-ba-gwo-dzup.
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, + pa'gwo-dzup.]
Hypnum sp.
Moss, pa'on-gup.
Cf.
Polytrichum.
Iva axilaris Pursh.
tu'ro-sip.
[tu'o-bit, tu'ro-vi, black, + sip, sap, juice, + ilp.]
The same name includes also Ambrosia, q. vid.
Iva xanthifolia Nutt.
tu'ro-sip (cf.
preceding form).
?kum / un-tsi-a.
Used by a few, but doubtless incorrectly.
See Chenopodium.
Ivesia gordoni Torr.
and Gray.
?toi'y a-wan-go-gip .
Jamesia americana Torr.
and Gray, toi'ya-da-tsip.
One of a number of mountain plants known under this general designation.
Juniperus califomica var.
utahensis, etc.
Cedar; Juniper.
w r a'pi.
wap.
The full name as heard among the Shoshoni is wa' ap-o-pi, 64 [Feb. and clearly means fire, match, or " kindling wood."
In the Gosiute and most related dialects the o'pi, wood, is not heard, the form remaining variously as wap, wa'pi and wai'ap (cf.
the Gosiute wai'hin, to burn).
One of the most familiar of arborescent plants in the Gosiute territory, occurring widely over the foothills and mountains.
It furnished the wood most commonly used in the construction of winter lodges, the bark {i'na-wa-tsip) being used for thatching and occasionally as a covering on the floor, though smaller branches and especially grasses were commonly applied to the latter purpose.
The bark was also used to line and cover the pits in which dried fruits, etc., were stored.
The leaves furnished a favorite medicine for coughs and colds, being used in the form of a tea.
It is still much in use for this purpose.
The cedar-berries, known as wap'-um-pi, were sometimes eaten in fall and winter after proper boiling.
Juniperus communis var.
alpina.
wap.
afi'go-gwa-nup.
[Prob.
an'go-bi, spruce, + gwa'nup, odor, etc.].
Juniperus virginianus L, Red Cedar, pa'wa-pi.
Kalmia glauca Ait.
American Laurel.
1 1 m'p m-tu-niimp .
[tim'pi, rock, + tu'nump, mahogany.]
Also one of the plants spoken of under the general designation tim'bo-ip.
Leaves by some used as a medicine.
Krynitzkia fulvocanescens Gray, ku'si-ya-ni-gmt.
[ku'tsip, ashes, ashen, in reference to the dense gray covering of hair, + ya'ni-gint.]
Lactuca leueophcea Gray.
Lettuce, mu'tci-gip.
mu'tci-gi.
(pa-ot'-qa; prob.
incorrect for this form.)
Lactuca ludoviciana DC.
Lettuce, mu'tci-gip.
?bi'tci-gwa-niip.
mu'tci-gi.
The leaves of the various species of Lactuca were eaten.
Lathyrus ortuitus Nutt.
Everlasting Pea.
mu'da-bis.
Also known under the general name of pi'o-ra, referring to the stem, and na' da-pa-rana-gint, the latter in restricted usage applying to Astragalus and referring to the pod.
1911.]
65 Layia glandulosa Hook and Arn.
mo'ta-qa.
mu'ta-qa.
Applied also to several other related forms.
Cf.
further in the Gosiute list under mo'ta-qa.
Leaf (general term).
si'ei Lemna.
Duckweed, wa'da-bu-ip.
pai'ya-bo-sip.
Lepidium intermedium Gray.
Peppergrass.
wu'bu-i-nup.
The same name was also applied to several other species belonging to the same family with about the same comprehensiveness and flexibility as our popular name "peppergrass."
Cf.
Draba.
Lewisia rediviva Pursh.
ka'na.
Lichen (general term), tim'pm-so-kiip.
[tim'pi, rock, + n, + sok'up, earth, "rock earth or covering."]
Linum kingii Watson.
Flax.
na'na-rip.
Linum perenne L. Flax.
Applied as a remedy to bruises, etc.
Said to take down swelling, etc.
Cf .
the use of flax-seed meal.
Lithospermum hirtum Lehm.
Gromwell.
ah'ka-tso-nap.
an'ka-tso-n i-b aip .
5 [an'ka-bit, red, + tso'nap or tso'ni-baip (cf.
under next species), the reference probably being to the deep orange color of the corollas.]
Lithospermum pilosum Nutt.
and multiflorum Torr.
Gromwell; Stickseed.
tso'ni-baip.
tsom'ba.
tso'nap.
[From tso'mo, tso, hook, etc., + ba, seed, + -up or -ip, the reference being to the burlike fruit.
Cf.
our popular name "stickseed," which corresponds very nearly to the Indian word.]
The seeds were sometimes eaten.
The roots formed a valued remedy in kidney trouble (diuretic).
Lonicera utahensis Watson and involuerata Banks.
Woodbine; Honeysuckle, pi'a-ra-dum-b ip .
pi'a-da-rum-bip.
p a'ri-a-un-d lk-iip .
[pa'ri, elk, + un, + dlk'ilp, food; i. e., "elk's food."
Cf.
the Ute te'ed-kav.]
These plants are also often spoken of under the name wu'da-iin-dik-up, " bear's food," because the berries are said to be eaten by the bear.
Cf.
the name "bear-berry," applied by the settlers, of Montana, etc., to species of Lonicera.
66 [Feb., Lophanthus urticifolius Benth.
toi'y a-ba-gwa-nup .
[toi'ya-bi, mountain, + pa'gwa-nup, mint (Mentha) the reference being to habitat.]
Cf.
Drzcocephalus and Scutellaria, to which forms the same name is also applied.
The seeds were formerly extensively gathered for use like those of the grasses and chenopods.
Lupinus leucophyllus Dougl., parviflorus Nutt., etc.
Lupine, kwi'ta-kwa-nup.
[Prob.
kwi-tup, excrement, + gwa'nup, odor.]
Lycopodium.
?pam'bu-i-up.
Lycopus sinuatus Ell.
Water Horehound.
ni'di-ba.
ni'dib.
Occasionally heard as pa'gwanup, the name of the mint (Mentha).
Lygodesmia grandiflora Torr.
and Gray.
Said to be one of the horse medicines or pun'go-na-tsu.
Madia glomerata Hook.
Tarweed.
nan'tai-bitc.
nan'te-bitc.
These names somewhat doubtful as applied to this species.
Malvastrum coccineum Gray.
False Mallow, pa'sa-koi-no-komp.
koi'no-komp.
Cf.
the following species.
Malvastrum munroanum Gray.
koi'no-komp.
koi'ya-kump.
This and the preceding form formerly pounded up in water to form a mucilage or gummy paste {wi'nautsaug), which was applied over the rough inner surfaces of earthen vessels, especially bowls (wi'nau).
The paste filled up the small holes and covered over irregularities and upon hardening left thus a smooth surface.
The wi'nau-tsaug (bowl " filler") was sometimes similarly used in wicker vessels designed to hold water, the latter commonly being first "pitched" with pine gum.
Mammilaria (?).
mu'tsa.
Outer portion of the cactus removed and central part used as food.
Matricaria discoidea.
?mu-i'-tci-gi.
Medicago sativa L. Lucern; alfalfa, pu'i-di-kiip.
[pu'i-bit + dik'ilp.]
Melica poceoides-.
wa'bi.
Mentha canadensis L. Mint, pa'na-ti-so.
pa'gwa-nup.
1911.]
67 From the leaves of this plant a tea was made which was used as a beverage.
Mentzelia Icevicaulis Torr.
and Gray and multi flora.
pi'a-ku-hwa.
Mentzelia pumila, albicaulis, etc.
ku'hwa.
Said by one informant to have been used as a medicine for burns (wai'a-na-tsu).
Mertensia alpina.
?toi'y a-mo-ta-komp .
Microseris major and linearifolia.
mu'i-tci-gi.
mu'tci-gip.
Mitella trifida.
pi'a-naiik.
to'sa-na-tsu.
The roots of species of Mitella and Heuchera were gathered and kept as a medicine for colic in babies.
It was used as a decoction and was much valued.
The color of the dried roots gave the name of to'sa-na-tsu, white medicine, to the preparation as likewise Mitella itself.
Monardella odoratissima.
pu'i-di-sas.
Monolepis chenopodoidea.
ko'ga-bi.
ko'ga-rum-pi.
Seeds said sometimes"to_have been eaten.
Nasturtium palustre DC.
and var.
Water-cress, si'bo-i-ump.
Plant eaten.
staminate pistillate Negundo aceroides Moench.
Box elder, gu'su-wup.
Negundo aceroides, flowers of.
ku'ni-up.
Negundo aceroides flowers of; samara of.
nan'ki-tco.
[ndnk, ear, + prob.
tso'mo, tco, bead, etc.].
Nicotiana attenuata Torr.
Tobacco, pu'i-ba-u.
This was the source of tobacco largely used by the Gosiutes, the leaves being dried in the ordinary way and used either alone or mixed with the inner bark of the kinnikinnic (cf.
under Cornus).
Oenothera biennis L. Evening Primrose, tsfgi-tump.
Seeds said to have been occasionally eaten.
Oenothera ccespitosa Nutt.
Evening Primrose.
?
?ka / na-gwa-nu.
?
?Roots used as medicine.
Opuntia rutila Nutt., microseris DC, etc.
Cactus, ai'gwo-bi.
Formerly used as food, the spines being removed and the joints roasted in hot coals.
Orogenia linearifolia, Watson.
kwi'ta-po-ni.
kwi'ta-po.
68 [Feb., Gosiutes say the bear often digs up and eats the bulbs of this plant.
Orthocarpus linear ifolius Benth.
ta'bi-wump.
p i' a-b a-b i-w u mp .
Osmorrhiza nuda Torr.
Sweet Cicely, pa'si-gwip.
Cf.
also the related Glycosma and also Angelica.
Oryzopsis cuspidata Benth.
Mountain Rice, wai.
A valuable bunch-grass very common in Nevada and Utah.
Formerly it furnished an abundance of seeds or grain to the Gosiutes.
Oxyria digyna Camp.
Mountain Sorrel.
an'ka-si-3 r u-na.
Pachystima myrsinites Raf.
Box.
ta'tsip.
Parnassia fimbriata Banks.
Grass of Parnassus, tim'bi-wi-gun-dza.
tim'bi-wi-gun-ta.
One of the tim'bai-na-tsu.
Parnassia parviflora DC.
Grass of Parnassus.
?koi'gwa-nup.
toi'ya-gwa-nup.
Cf .
Saxifraga nivalis, a related form.
Pentstemon confertus Dougl.
var.
Beard-Tongue, tu-go-wi-niip.
Peucedanum gravealens Watson, i'jaip.
The roots of several species of Peucedanum formed one of the most valued medicines among the Gosiutes, being, in fact, termed by them pi'-a-na-tsu, or " great medicine."
In cases of sore throat it was mashed and applied directly to the affected surface.
In cases of biliousness and severe colds it was sometimes used as a decoction, being by some mixed with a koi'na-tsu and pine resin.
Peucedanum simplex Nutt.
bi-tca-mu-kum.
The name applied strictly to a species of Eriogonum, but also used in a more general sense to indicate several other plants like the present one, which have long peduncles bearing rays suggestive of fingers radiating from a hand.
Phacelia menziesii Torr.
and circinata Jaeg.
wu'-si-bm-gint.
wu'-si-gi'mt.
The name refers to the clothing of limpid hairs on stems and leaves of these plants.
Phalaris arundinacea L. Canary Grass.
u'-gii-pi.
u'-grp.
o-gip.
Cf .
also Beckmannia, to which the name primarily belongs.
1911.]
69 Phalaris is regarded as the "little brother" of Beckmannia.
Phlceum alpinum L. Cat's Tail Grass; Mountain Herd's Grass, tf-so-nip.
Cf.
alopecurus, which is also included under the name.
Phlox longifolia Nutt.
Sweet William; Phlox, si-bi.
PJwraderidron juniperum L. Mistletoe, o'-ka.
Phragmites communis Trin.
Reed, paij.
paidj.
This tall reed is found in abundance in some places along streams and about ponds and is common along the shores of Utah Take.
A sweet secretion or honeydew formed on the leaves by aphides was formerly gathered by the Indians and used as a sugar (u'-gapi-na).
The same was true of similar secretions formed on the leaves of the cottonwood and other plants.
In pioneer days in Utah the Mormons also gathered this secretion to some extent.
Pinus monophylls Torr.
and Trin.
Nut-pine, ti'-ba-wa-ra.
The nuts (ti'-ba) from this tree formed one of the important foods of the Gosiutes, and the invariable journey into the mountains each fall for the gathering the pine-nut harvest is still looked upon as a great fixed event of the year.
In the pine-nut season at this time the Indians go chiefly to the Deep Creek Mountains.
Pinus edulis Eug.
Piilon Pine; Nut-pine, ai'-go-u-pi.
When this species was accessible the nuts were gathered and used like those of the preceding species.
Plant (general term), si'-a-ka.
pu'-i-si-a-ka.
Plantago eriopoda Torr., patagonica, major L., etc.
Plantain, toi'-gu-pa-gunt.
[The name refers to the elevated head of the flowers, toi, indicating elevation, etc., + gup, fruit, + a connective, + gilnt.
The same name is sometimes applied to Ranunculus for the same reason.]
Poa californica Munro.
Meadow Grass.
ni'-a-brp ; ni'-a-bi.
Seeds eaten.
Poa tenuifolia Nutt.
"Bunch Grass"; Meadow Grass, mi'-a-ba-so-nfp.
70 [Feb., ni'a-ba-so-nip.
ni'-a-bip.
Cf.
the preceding.
The seeds of this abundant " bunch grass," notwithstanding their small size, were an important source of grain to the Gosiutes.
Poa pratensis L. Blue Grass; Meadow Grass, ni'-a-bip.
aii'-go-ma-tsai-ya.
The latter name commonly applied also to Deyeuxia, and apparently more narrowly restricted to the latter.
Species of Deyeuxia are also often spoken of as ni'-a-bip, the forms of the two genera not being sharply distinguished by them, as is only natural.
Their names, like our own popular ones, often included species which, scientifically studied, botanists place in separate genera, while in other cases their distinctions were very close.
Polemonium cceruleum L. Greek Valerian, i'-ca-un-toi-nump .
The name refers to the fact that the wolf (i'ca) is said to eat the berries of the plant sometimes when sick.
Polygonum amphibium L. pi'-a-pa-on-gop-pai'-dja-rump.
[po-up, large, + pa'on-gop, moss, water-weed, + pai'dja-rump.]
Polygonum erectum L. on'ka-pa-bui-i.
Polygonum hartwrightii Gray, pa'-gu-ip.
ta'-kum-bu-i.
Polygonum imbricatum Nutt.
ko'-ka-bi.
Polygonum viviperum L. ?toi / -ya-da-ti-bu-da.
j Polygonum juniperinum.
Moss, tim'-pm-pa-bo-i-up.
pa'-ofi-gop.
pi'-a-pa-on-gop.
Cf.
Hypnum.
Populus angustifolia James.
Cottonwood, so'-o-pi.
so'ho-bi.
The shoots of the cottonwood furnished the material for much of the basket work among the Gosiutes.
Because of greater strength it was preferred to the willows.
The honey-dew formed by aphides on the leaves was gathered and used somewhat as sugar.
Populus tremuloides Michx.
Quaking Aspen, sm-gu-pi; sin'-gup.
Poteniilla anserina L. Five Finger.
?so'-ko.
Potentilla fruticosa L. wa'tsi-gint.
wa'na-gmt.
Potentilla glandulosa Lindl.
Five Finger, pa'-sa-wi-giimp.
1911.]
71 Roots used as medicine.
Said to be applied as poultice to SAvollen parts, and also to be used internally.
Potentilla pennsylvanica.
Five Finger, ku'-si-wah-go-gip .
ku'-tsa-ga-ti-wo-ra-rat.
Potentilla plattensis Xutt.
Five Finger.
i'-ca-ro-dzup.
\i'-ca, wolf, + to' (hup, q.
rid.]
Primula parryi Gray.
Primrose.
?pu , -i-pa-si-go.
?toi / -ya-na(da)-ta-bu-da.
Primus demissa Welpers.
Choke Cherry; Wild Cherry, to'o-nump.
ton'gi-cip.
The fruit was used as food.
For winter use, after gathering it was mashed and spread out in layers to dry in the sun.
It was then cached like that of the serv ice-berry , previou sly described.
For use, the common method was to grind up the dried fruit, boil in water, and to eat as a sort of mush.
A decoction from the bark was used as a "blood medicine," bu'-i-na-tsu, in cases where a person was affected with frequent hemorrhages at the nose, etc., or, according to the Gosiute explanation, when the person "has too much blood."
The bark was also used as a koi'-na-tsu for babies and children.
Pseudotsuga douglasii Carr.
Douglas Spruce, wah'-go.
Purshia tridentata DC.
hi'-na-bi.
Cf.
Coivania, from which the name is extended by many to the present form.
Pyrus sambucifolia Cham, and Sc.
?ku'-no-gip.
This is properly the name of the Elder (Sambucus) and it is doubtful whether the name is properly applied to the present form, which in general appearance resembles it, and hence its specific name.
It was hard applied to this form, however.
Quercus undulata Torr., var.
Scrub Oak; Rocky Mountain Oak.
kwi'-ni-iip.
ku'-ni-up.
The acorns (ku'-ni-ro-ump) were prepared for food in season, but they were not preserved for winter use.
Ranunculus aquatilis L. var.
mo'-a-pa-on-gop.
[mo'a + pa'on-gop, moss, etc.]
?pa / mo.
Said entire plant sometimes eaten.
Ranunculus cymbalaria Pursh.
Buttercup ; Crowfoot, ni'-u-ru-pam-pi.
toi'-gup-a-gunt.
72 [Feb., The names refer to the elevated cone-shaped heads; toi, elevate, etc., + gup, fruit, + giint.
The names are not wholly specific, being applied to some other forms having similar heads.
Ranunculus sceleratus L. Buttercup, a'-tam-bi-tcip.
ha'tam-bi-tcip.
Rhus aromatica Ait.
var.
trilobata Gray.
Sumac ; Squaw-berry, i'-tcib.
ai'tcib.
u'-i-tcib.
Berries to some extent eaten.
Rhus toxicodendron L. Poison Oak; Poison Ivy.
ta'-da-bi.
Rhus glabra L. Sumac; Squawberry, an'-ka-ti-w i-iimp .
an'-ka-ti-wi-a.
Berries eaten.
The leaves were formerly smoked.
Ribes aureum Pursh.
Missouri or Black Currant, kai'-i-ump.
po'-go-nup.
po'gum-pi.
The second name, while often used as applying to this species, is also the general term for the currant berry of this and other species, in this usage being broadly the equivalent of our word currant.
The fruit of this and the following species, which seem to have been less important, was used as food and was dried in quantity and preserved for later use in the usual way.
Ribes divaricatum Dougl.
var.
Currant, wfsa-po-gump.
The prefixed portion of the name, wi'sa, refers to the prickles born on this species.
Ribes lacustre and leptanthum Gray var.
brachyanthum.
Currant, ai'-go-po-gump.
The prefixed or first portion of this compound name means process or thorn, in reference doubtless to the spines of this species.
Ribes oxycanthoides L. Currant, toi'-ya-po-go-nup.
The name means "mountain currant."
Root, tsm.
tshr'ai.
Rosa, calif omica and fendleri Crepin.
Rose, tsi'-o-pi.
The name means "prickly plant."
The berries, known as tsi'ump or dzi'ump, were gathered for food.
Rosa nutkana Presl.
Rose.
ti'-a-bi.
The berries are spoken of as mo' 'gon-dzi-iimp; which means poison or deleterious rose-berries, these berries 1911.]
73 not being regarded as good to eat.
Rub us leucodermis Dougl.
Raspberry.
tu'-kwun-dau-w i-a .
tu'-kwun-da-wi.
Berries eaten.
Rubus nutkanus Moc.
Salmonberry, tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a.
wu'-da-un-di-kup.
The second name refers to the fact that the berries are sought for food by the bear.
The same name is also given to a species of Lonicera, q. vid.
Berries eaten.
Rudbeckia oecidentalis Nutt.
Coneflower, tu'-ro-vi-pam-pi.
tu'-ro-pam-pi.
tu'-pam-pi.
The names mean simply "black-head," in reference to the color of the coneshaped flower heads.
Rumex salicifolius Welman, etc.
Sorrel; Dock, aii'-ka-pa-ja-rump.
an'ka-p ai-d j a-rump .
a fi'-ka-p a-tsa-rump .
The root furnishes one of the remedies spoken of by the Gosiutes as "blood medicines," "bu'-i-tui-tsit."
A decoction of the root is also said to have been used •for injection by the rectum in cases of severe constipation.
Sagittaria variabilis Engelm.
Arrow-head.
pa'-bo-bu-ip.
pa'ba-bu-ip.
pi'a-pa-bu-ip.
pi'-a-pa-bo-bu-ip.
Salicornia herbacea L. Samphire ; Glasswort.
pa'-o-ka; pa'-ho-qa.
o'-ka.
Very abundant in many places in Gosiute territory about alkaline and brackish water or over damp alkaline areas.
This is one of the various chenopodaceous plants that contributed seeds so abundantly to these Indians.
When the meal from the seeds of this plant was cooked it is described as having tasted like "sweet bread" by those who have eaten it.
Salix longi folia Muh., and other species.
Willow.
si'-o-pi.
si'hip.
[The name seems to mean approximately "water or wet wood or plant (shrub or tree)," probably in reference to its habitat.
Another possible meaning would be "sap wood."]
The wood was commonly used in the making of baskets, water-jugs, etc., though cottonwood was by most preferred when accessible.
It was used for making 74 [Feb., fish-weirs (pdii'givi-go-up) and for other similar purposes.
Salix amygdaloides Anders., lasiandra var., and flavescens Nutt.
Willow.
sa'-gu-pi.
Also in a general way designated by the name si'-o-pi, as for the preceding, which is used largely in a generic sense.
Uses like those of the preceding.
Samara of Ncgundo and Acer.
nan'-ki-tco ; nan'-ki-tso.
ka'bip.
Sambucus glauca Nutt.
Elder, pa'-go-no-gwip ; pa'-go-no-gip.
Bears eat berries.
Sambucus racemosa L. Elder, ku'-no-gip ; ku'-no-gi.
ko'-no-gip ; ko'-no-gi.
The fruit was eaten in season.
Sap.
biic.
Saponaria vaccaria L. Soapwort.
sai'-ya-hyu-gin.
Widely introduced into Nevada and Utah through early emigrant travel.
Sarcobatus vermiculatus Torr.
Greasewood.
Saxifraga nivalis L. Saxifrage, toi'-y a-gwa-nup .
ka'-i-gwa-niip.
[Prob.
toi-ya-bi, mountain, + gwa'-na, odor, -jup.]
Saxifraga punctata L. Saxefrage.
pa'-sa-wi-gun-dz a. Cf.
Heuchera.
Scirpus lacustris L. var.
occidentalis Watson.
Bulrush; Tule.
saip.
The lower, tender portions of the stems were formerly eaten as food.
Scirpus maritimus L. Sea Bulrush, ai'-bi-baip.
saip.
Cf.
Carex hookeriana and utricidata, which are often grouped under the first names, which is applied to large forms of Carex only,' the sedges being strictly spoken of as pa'gi-gip.
Sedum glandidosiim, etc.
Stonecrop, an'-ka-ti-wi-a.
Leaves formerly smoked.
The plant was ranked with the kinnikinnic (Cornus) because of this use.
Seed, ba.
bi'a.
Seedling.
I'-gi-na-ga. [This name is from I'-gin, meaning immediate, beginning or initial, and a'-ka, plant.]
Senecio, several species.
Groundsel, tim'-pi-dza-na-kwo.
The name means "mouth gum," the equivalent of our " chewing-gum," a chewing-gum having been 1911.]
75 prepared formerly from the latex.
Shepherdia argentea Xutt.
Buffalo-berry.
.
an'-ka-mo-do-niip .
aii'-gu-ta-gup.
aii'-gup.
These names refer to the scarlet berries, o'-pip.
Berries eaten.
Shepherdia canadensis Xutt.
Buffalo-berry, a'-da-mm-bip.
pi'-a-da-r lim-b lp .
Cf.
Ceanothus, a'da-riim-bipdn-ka-sip.
Sidalcea malva?
flora Gray, mu'-tsai-kump.
mf-ta-kump.
mi'-ta-komp.
Silene acaulis L. Catchfly.
tim'-p i-sagw u p .
wa'-si-pit.
Said to have been used for colic, etc., in children, being a koi'-na-tsu.
Silene ant irrhina L. Catchfly.
oi'-tcu-yo.
Silene multicaidis Nutt.
and seouleri Hook.
Catchfly.
In cases of " pain in stomach" this plant was sometimes used as an emetic.
The method of use was to pound up.
put into warm water, and drink.
It was also used as a horse medicine or pihYgo-na-tsu.
Silene menziesii Hook.
Catchfly.
yo'-go-ti-wi-ya.
Leaves formerly smoked as a tobacco, being dried and powdered for this purpose.
Sisymbrium canescens Xutt.
Hedge Mustard, poi'-ya.
po'-nok.
Seeds were gathered and used for food, being made into a kind of mush that was much liked.
Si um cicutce folium Schrank Water Parsnip, pa'-o-tim-bite.
?toi / -ya-ro-dzip.
Smilacina amplexicaulis Nutt.
False Solomon's Seal, f-dja-pain-po-go-niip.
[i'-djti-pa, coyote, + n. + po'-go-nup, berry.]
f-ca-bo-gup.
i'ca-bo-go-niip.
[i'-ca, wolf, + po'gup.
po'-gonUp, berry.]
Cf.
the name for this plant, yo-go-ta-ma-niimp.
Berries said to be eaten by the bear, and hence the plant is designated as one of a number under the name wu'da-un-dY-kiip, "bear food."
It is also known from a legendary reference as pun'go-unda-mi (pihYgo, horse.
+ un + da' mi.)
Smilacina stellata Desf.
False Solomon's Seal, pai'ya.
Roots pounded up and rubbed on limbs in cases of rheu76 [Feb mat ism.
Bears said to eat berries, as with the preceding species.
Solanum tuberosum L. Potato, go'-tsa-win.
Sometimes spoken of also as dzi'na,, the name primarily applied to the Springbeauty, the bulbs of which were eaten.
The potato is cultivated to some extent by the Gosiutes.
Solidago canadensis L., nemoralis Ait., spectabilis Gray, etc.
Golden-rod.
oi'-vlnk.
o'-a-ymk.
[o'-a-bit, yellow + junk.]
Seeds to some extent gathered and eaten.
Sonchus asper Vill.
Sow-thistle, mu'-tci-grp.
An introduced plant designated by the name applied to the closely allied nature species of Lactuca, which see.
Spartina gracilis Trin.
Salt Grass.
na'-da-pu-gu-i-gi.
Sphceralcea rividaris Torr.
pi-tca-gwa-nup.
toi'-na-ko-nlp.
koi'-na-komp.
Cf.
malvastrum.
Sphceralcea e?noryi Torr.
koi'-na-komp.
pi'-a-koi-na-komp.
Cf.
malvastrum.
This genus in general characteristics is extremely similar to Malvastrum, and it is only natural that popularly and by the Indians no wide differences in designation are present.
Spircea ccespitosa Nutt.
Meadowsweet.
t Im-p In-t lm-bo-ump .
tim'-bo-ump.
tlm / -bi-ma.
While the leaves are used as a bowel medicine, it is mostly employed as a remedy for burns.
For this the roots are used.
The roots are first freed from dirt and epidermis and then boiled to a pulp, which is applied as a salve to the burned portion, as is described in the earlier portion of this paper.
The remedy is highly valued and to the author has seemed efficacious in cases observed.
Spiranthes romazofjiana Cham.
Ladies' Tresses, sai'-gi-tamp.
Used as a medicine in venereal disease — a. tim'-baina-tsu.
Stachys palustris L. Woundwort, toi'-ya-ba-gwa-nup.
[Cf.
composition sub.
Lophanthus.]
Seeds gathered for food along with those of Lophanthus, Scutellaria, etc., closely related forms known under the same name.
1911.]
77 Stalk, stem.
o'ra.
Stephanomeria exigua Nutt.
mo'-a-giip.
Stipa coma t a Trin.
and Piipr.
Feather Grass, dai'-gwi-wiq.
o'-gwip.
o'gip.
Stipa speciosa.
Feather Grass, o'-gwip.
o'-gip.
yu'-gwip.
Cf.
Aristida, a genus very close to the present one.
Stipa viridida Trin.
Feather Grass, pa'-si-wu-muts.
pa'-si-wu.
o'gwip.
o'gip.
Taraxacum officinale Weber.
Dandelion, ti'-bo-hi.
ti'-bu-i.
mu'-tca-glp.
mu'-tci-gi.
mu'-tca-gi-a.
Cf.
Crepis.
Tetradymia canescens DC.
var.
inermis Gray, si'-bii-pi.
Cf.
Bigelovia.
Townsendia sericea Hook, var., etc.
muts'-em-bi-a-di-kup.
The name means literally "mountain-sheep food" {muts'em-bi-a, mountain sheep, + cVi'kup), a name referring to its serving as food for [the mountain sheep.
It is not specific.
Trifolium, various species.
Clover, ton'-tso.
Triglochin maritimum L. Arrowgrass.
pa-na-wi.
Mentioned also as one of the various p il n 'gou n-da-m i.
Seeds eaten.
Trisetum svbspicatum "Beam.
wi'-tcub.
Also sometimes more generally as ni'a-blp.
Seeds eaten.
Troximon aurantiacurn Hook, mu-tci-gip.
mu'tci-gi-a.
Leaves sometimes eaten.
Troximon sp.
?koi'-nump.See Microseria.
Typha latifolia L. Cat-tail, to'imp.
[Means mouse or rat.]
Seeds eaten.
The bristles of the ripe spikes were burned off.
the seeds becoming roasted or partially so in the process.
The seeds were then freed and dealt w T ith as usual.
Urtica holosericea Nutt.
Nettle, tin'-ai-gop.
The name refers to the stinging hairs or nettles.
Urtica sp.
tu'-i.
78 [Feb., Vaccinium ccespitosum Michx.
Belberry ; Blue-berry, ti'-da-kai-mi-ya.
ti'-mai-hya.
Leaves formerly dried and used as a tobacco.
Hence grouped with kinnikinnic (Cornus) by the Indians.
Valerianella congesta DC.
a'-pa. Valeriana edulis Nutt.
toi'-ya-bit-iim-ba-ga. toi'-ya-bit-um-ba.
Roots pounded up and rubbed on externally for rheumatism.
Said also to be good on swollen and bruised regions {bai'gwina-tsu).
Roots eaten.
Valeriana sylvatica Banks, ku'yi-kwa-niip .
ku'i.
Said to kill horses.
An arrow poison is said to have been prepared from the root.
Veratrum californicum Durand.
False Hellebore, l'-ca-po-go-niip.
The name may be rendered "wolf currant."
Vicia americana Muhl.
Vetch.
up'-ta-wu-kw a-d j u-n in .
Viola cucullata Ait.
Violet.
?pe-ku-ip.
Name not specific.
Viola palustris L. Violet.
??dzi'-na-so-so.
Wood (general term), o'-pi.
wu'-pi.
Commonly used as the equivalent of tree or shrub, i. e., woody plant or even of plant in general.
Wyethia amplexicaulis Nutt.
pi'-a-ken-dzip.
[pi'up, big, + a'-ken-dzlp, q.
vid.]
Seeds formerly gathered as food.
The roots furnished a remedy applied externally upon bruised and swollen limbs, etc.
Xanthium strumarium var.
echinatum.
Cockle-bur.
kwi'-tcem-bo-gop .
The name means "cow" or "bison fruit or berry."
Zauschneria calif ornica Presl.
mu'-tu-nants-um-bi-j i. mu'-tu-nants-pi-na-di-kint.
The first name means "humming-bird's milk" ; the second approximately "humming-bird's sugar or sweet food," " humming-bird's nectar."
The same name is also applied to Gilia aggregata, etc., being of generic character and independent of the more special names of each form.
Zea mats L. Indian Corn; Maize, ko'-mu.
korn (from English).
Zygadenus nuttalli Gray.
Poison Sego.
ta'-bi-si-go-up.
ta'-bi-tci-gop.
[ta'-bi, sun, referring to the clustered flowers (Cf.
ta'1911.]
79 bi-si-bu-pi) , + si' -go, + up.]
Furnished a medicine used as an emetic.
Also one used in certain venereal affections {tvm'-bai-na-tsu) .
Gosiute Names with Scientific and English Equivalents.
a'-da-mm-bip.
See a'di-rum-bip, the more usual form.
a'di-rum-bip.
Ceanothus velutinus Dougl.
New Jersey Tea.
Cf.
the next name.
Symphoricarpos oreophilus Gray.
Snowberry.
This plant is not known to all under this name.
a'-di-rum-bip-an-ka-sip.
Ceanothus velutinus Dougl.
New Jersey Tea.
By this fuller name distinguished from the Snowberry by those who designate the latter under the preceding name.
ai'-bi-baip.
Scirpus maritimus L. Clubrush; Bulrush.
Carex hookeriana Dew.
Sedge.
The name is also sometimes applied to C. utriculata Boott.
; and other, especially larger forms more strictly designated by pa'gi-gip, q. viol.
ai'-di-wi-si-gi-nump.
ai'-go-po-gump.
Ribes lacustre Poir.
Currant.
Ribes leptanthum Gray, var.
brachyanthum.
Currant.
ai-go-u-pi.
Pinus edulis Eng.
Pinon Pine.
ai'-gwa-bo-gup.
Cnicus eatoni Gray.
Thistle.
Cf.
ai-wa-bo-gup.
ai'-gwo-bi.
Opuntia sp.
Cactus, ai'-tcib.
Rhus aromatica Ait.
var.
trilobato Gray.
Sumac.
Cf.
u'-i-tcib, as the name is often heard in the Skull Valley band.
a'-ka.
Name of a plant not identified with certainty.
The seeds are said to have been eaten.
ai'wa-bo-gup(-gop) .
Cnicus eatoni Gray.
Cf.
ai'gwa-bo-gup.
a'-ken-dzip.
Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt.
More specifically wi'-a-kendzip, q. vid.
Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt.
Arrowroot.
More specifically ku'si-a-kendzrp, q. vid.
a'na-gwa-niip.
Cleome integrifolia Torr., and Gray, an-dztip'.
Cymopterus longipes Watson.
so [Feb., an'-go-bi.
Pseud otsuga douglasii Can.
Douglas Spruce, an'-go-gw a-nup .
Juniperus communis var.
alpina.
Cf.
wa'-pi.
an'-kai-yump.
Rhus glabra L. Sumac.
Shortened from an'-ka-ti-wiump, the full form.
afi'-go-ma-tai-yu .
See aiY-go-ma-tsai-yu.
aii'-go-ma-tsai-yu.
Deyeuxia canadensis Beam.
Reed Bent Grass.
Deyeuxia stricta Trin.
Reed Bent Grass.
Poa pratensis L. Meadow or Blue Grass.
Cf.
ni'-a-bip.
an'-go-mu-tsa-wai-ni.
aii'-gii-pi; an'-gup.
See an'-ka-mo-do-niip, from which this is shortened, afi'-ka-koi-nump.
Sometimes heard in place of aft'-ka-koi-nup, q. vid.
iin'-ka-koi-nup.
Same as an'ka-kwi-nup, the preferred and etymologically more proper pronunciation, aii'-ka-kwi-niip.
Cornus stolonifera Michx.
Kinnikinnic.
aii'-k a-kw a-tci-up .
an'-ka-pa-bu-ip.
Polygonum erectum L. afi'-ka-pa-d j a-rvimp.
Rumex salicifoUus Wemman.
Dock ; Sorrel.
an'-ka-pai-dja-riimp.
Same as preceding.
a Y-ka-pa-riimp.
Same as aiY-ka-pa-dja-rump.
aY-ka-pa-rump.
Same as aiYka-pa-dja-rump.
aY-ka-pa-ri-ump.
Fragaria vesca L. Strawberry.
aY-ka-po-gomp.
Occasional for an'ka-mo-donup, which see.
a Y-ka-mo-d o-niip .
Shepherdia argentea Nutt.
Buffalo-berry.
aY-ka-pu-i.
See an'ka-pa-bu-ip.
the full form.
aY-ka-si-yu-na.
Oxyria digyna Comp.
Mountain Sorrel, an'-ka-ti-wi-a.
See aYka-ti-wi-ump.
aY-ka-ti-wi-iimp.
Rhus glabra.
L. Sumac.
aY-ka-tso-nap.
See aYka-tso-ni-baip.
aY-ka-tso-ni-baip.
Lithospermum hirtum Lehm.
Gromwell.
aY-ka-wa-dziimp.
Eriogonum microthecum Nutt., etc.
a'-pa. Valeria nella congesta DC.
a'-po.
Atriplex truncata Tori', a'-ra-si-mu.
1 Clematis douglasii Hook.
Clematis; Virgin's Bower.
See o'bin-da-ma-nump.
1911.]
81 a'-tam-bi-tcip.
Berula angustifolia Koch.
ats.
Amarantus sp.
ba.
Seed, ba'-hwap.
J uncus balticus Deth.
and parry <i Eng.
Bog-rush.
See pa'-hwap and pa'-iim-up.
bi'-a-gmt.
Catkin, female, of willows, etc.
b i'-d j i-gw a-nup .
Cleome integrifolia Ton*, and Gray, bi'-tci-gw a-nup.
Same as the preceding, bi'-tca-mok.
Eriogonum heracleoides Nntt.
bi'-tca-mu-kum.
Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt.
Peucedanum simplex.
biic.
Sap; juice, dai'-gwi-wiq.
Stipa comata Trin.
and Rupre.
Feather Grass, da'-pa-rai-nump.
Astragalus iodanthus Watson.
Rattle-weed, dzi'-na.
Claytonia caroliniana var.
sessilifolia Torr.
Springbeauty.
Solarium tuberosum.
Potato.
Occasional and secondary.
Cf.
go'tsa-win.
dzi'-na-so-so?
Viola palustris L. Violet, dzi'-cup.
Atriplex canescens James.
6 go'-ni-na-tsu.
See toi'na-tsu, the more common form.
go'-tsa-wm.
Solatium tuberosum L. Potato.
gu'-su-wup.
Negundo aceroides Moench.
Box-elder.
ha'-ta-bi-tcip.
Ranunculus sceleratus L. Buttercup.
See a'tam-bi-tcip, the more usual form.
hi'-bm-gup.
Usual form.
Flower.
hi'-na-bi.
Cowania mexicana Don.
Cliff Rose.
Purshia tridentata DC.
hu'-gu-pi.
See also u'gu-pi, the more usual form in which heard, l'-ca-bo-go-niip.
Veratrum californicum Durand.
False Hellebore.
Smilacina amplexicaidis Nutt.
False Solomon's Seal.
See i'dju-pain-po-go-nxip.
l'-ca-bo-giip.
Aconitum fischeri.
Monkshood.
See the preceding, i'-dja-pa-bo-gop.
Same as i'ca-bo-go-nup, which see.
l'ca-un-toi-nump.
Polemonium coeruleum, L. Greek Valerian, i'-djaip.
Peucedanum graveolens Watson, etc.
82 [Feb., l'djum-iim-bu-i.
Catkin, male, of willow, etc.
i'-d j u-pain-po-go-nup .
Smilacina amplexicaulis Nutt.
False Solomon's Seal, l'gi-na-ga. Seedling ; germinating plant, i'gi-si-a-ka.
Bud.
i'-na-bi.
See hi'-na-bi.
l'-sa-yu-gip.
Equisetum hiemale L. Scouring Rush, i'-tcib.
Rhus aromatica Ait.
var.
Sumac; Squaw-berry.
Cf.
ai'-tcib.
i'-um-pi.
Helianthus annuus L. Sunflower.
1 up.
See the following, i'-u-pi.
Chenopodium, leptophyllum Nutt .
Pigweed; Goose-foot, ka'-bip.
Samara of Negundo, Acer, etc.
Cf.
nan'-ki-tco.
kai'-i-ump.
Ribes aureum Pursh.
Missouri Currant, kai'si-na-bop Erigeron macranthus Nutt.
ka'-na.
Lewisia rediviva Pursh.
Bitterroot, ka'-na-gwa-na.
^Geranium fremonti Torr.
Geranium; Crane's Bill.
Cf.
pa'-hu-ip.
Oenothera ccespitosa Nutt.
Evening Primrose.
ka'-na-gwa-nu.
See ka'-na-gwa-na.
kan'-giim-pi.
Grayia polygaloides Hook and Arn.
Shad Scale.
Cf.
mo'-do-nup.
kan'-kwai-tcup .
Hordeum nodosum L. and jubatum L. Barley.
kan'-kwa-tci-up.
See the preceding.
ka'-num-pi; ka-nump.
Atriplex confertijolia Watson.
See sun, the standard name.
ko'-ga-bi.
Monolepis chenopodoidea.
ko'-ga-rum-pi.
Monolepis chenopodoidea.
koi'-di-gip.
Castilleia miniata Dougl.
Painted-cup.
koi'-gwa-nup.
koi'-na-komp.
Malvastrum munroanum Gray.
False Mallow.
Sphaeralcea emoryi Torr.
Cf.
pi'-a-koi-na-komp.
koi'-na-tsu.
General term applied to various medicines and the plants furnishing them which are used in intestinal and stomach troubles.
See Arenaria, Silene, etc.
koi'-no-komp.
Same as koi'na-komp, which see.
1911.]
83 koi'-si-na-bop.
ErigeronmacranthusNutt.
Fleabane.
Cf.
kai'-si-na-bop.
ko'-ka-bi.
See ko'ga-bi.
ko'-mu.
Zea mais L. Indian Corn.
See Korn.
ko'-no-gwip.
Heracleum lanatum Michx.
Cow Parsnip, korn.
From the English.
See ko'-mu.
ko'-sa-mu-i-tci-gip.
ko'-si-bo-qun-tos.
Chaenactis douglasii Hook and Arn.
Cf.
wafi'-gi-gip.
ku'-hwa.
Mentzelia albicaulis Dougl., etc.
ku'-i-do-gip.
See koi'-di-gip.
ku'-i-gwa-nup.
Saxifraga nivalis L. Saxifrage.
Cf.
toi'-ya-gwa-nup.
ku'-ki-koi-nump.
Gutierrezia euthamios Torr.
and Gray.
Torchweed; Rabbit Brush.
ku'-ma-ra-tsi-y u-gip .
Glyceria aquatica Smith.
Reed Meadow Grass.
Cf.
pa'-si-wump.
kum'-un-tsi-a.
Chenopodium rubrum L. and capitatum Wat.
Pigweed; Goose-foot.
Cf.
on'-tim-pi-wai.
koi'-nump.
Microseris sp.
Cf.
mo-i'-tci-gip.
ku'-ni-ro-iimp.
Acorn, kufi'-ga. Allium bisceptrum Watson and acuminatum Hook.
Onion, ku'-ni-up.
Staminate flowers of Negundo, etc.
ku'-no-gi.
Quercus undulata Torr.
var.
Scrub Oak.
See the following, ku'-no-gip.
Sambucus racemosa L. Elder, ku'-si-a-ka ; ku'-si-ak.
An abbreviated form of ku'-sia-km-dzip, which see.
ku'-si-a-ken-dzip.
Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt.
Arrowroot, ku'-si-pa-hwats.
Shortened form of ku'-si-pawa-tsip.
ku'-si-pa-wats.
Shortened form of ku'-si-pawa-tsip.
ku'-si-p a-w a-ts lp .
See ku'tsi-pa-wa-tsip.
ku'-si-wafi-go-gip.
Potentilla pennsylvanica L. Five-finger, ku'-si-wup.
Holodiscus discolor var.
dumosa maxim.
ku'-so-nip.
Brizopyrum spicatum Hooker, ku'-si-ya-ni-giint.
Krynitzkia fulvocanescens Gray.
84 [Feb., ku'-tsa-ga-ti-wo-ra-rat.
Potent ilia pennsylvanica L. Five-finger.
See ku'-si-wan-go-gip, supra.
kwa'-tci-iip.
Hordeum nodosum L. and jubatum L. Barley.
Cf.
kan'-kwai-tcup.
kwi'ta-kwa-niip.
Lupinus leucophyllus Dougl., parvi floras Nutt., etc.
Lupine.
kwi'-ta-po.
See the next.
kwi'-ta-po-ni.
Orogenia linearifolia Watson.
kwi'-tcen-bo-giip.
Xanthium strumarium var.
echinatum.
Cockle-bur.
ma'-ba-so-nip.
See mi'-a-ba-so-nip.
mi'-ta-kom.
See the following word, mi'-ta-komp.
Sidalcea malvceflora Gray, mf-ta-kump.
Same as the preceding, mo'-a-ba-bu-ip.
Euphorbia montaiui Engelm., dentata Michx., etc.
mo'-a-gup.
Stephanomeria exigua Nutt.
Anaphalis margaritacea Benth.
and Hook.
Everlasting.
Arnica parryi Gray, mo'-a-gwa-niip.
mo'-ha-gup.
Same as mo'a-gup.
mo'a-mu-i-tci-gi.
Same as the following.
mo'-a-mu-i-tci-gip.
Crepis occidentalis Nutt.
mo'-a-kiimp.
Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt.
Cf.
o'-a-kump and wi'-a-kendzip.
mo'-a-pa-on-gop.
Ranunculus aquatilis L. var.
mo'-do-bi'ic.
mo'-do-niip.
Grayia poly gala ides Hook and Arn.
Shad-scale, mo'-gon-dz i-iimp .
Berries of Rosa nutkana Presl.
mo'-no.
Deschampsia danthonioides Munro.
mo'-ta-ga. See mo'-ta-qa.
mo'-ta-komp.
mo'-ta-ga. Helenium autumnale L. Sneezeweed.
Cf.
ti'-da-ya-giip.
Layia gland ulosa Hook and Arn.
Gymnolomia multiflora Benth.
and Hook.
Cf.
l'-ca-mo-ta-ga.
The name is properly applied to these and their relatives and has no popular English equivalent.
As may be seen, these forms in general may have also a more specific designation as well.
It is probably used in a more restricted sense for Layia, etc., daisylike forms, mo'-tci-gi.
See mo'-tci-gip.
1911.]
85 mo'-tci-gip.
Same as mu'-tci-gip, which see.
mu'-a-kump.
See mo'-a-kurap.
mu'-ha-ti-bu-i.
Crepis glauca Torr.
and Gray.
Cf.
mu'-tci-gip.
mu'-ha-kum.
See the next word, mu'-ha-kump.
Grindelia squarrosa Dunsl.
Arnica.
Helianthella uni flora Torr.
and Gray, mu'-i-tci-gi.
Same as mu'-i-tci-gip.
mu'-i-tci-gip.
See mu'-tci-gip.
mu'-pa-tai-gi-niip.
Arctium lappa L. Burdock, mu'-tci-gi.
See the following.
mu'-tci-gip.
Hieracium gracilis Hook and scouleri Hook.
Hawkweed ; Thistle.
Sonchus asper Vill.
Sowthistle.
Crepis glauca Torr.
and Gray.
Lactuca leucophcea Gray and ludoviciana DC.
Lettuce.
ITroximon aurantiacum Hook.
The word corresponds approximately to the English "thistle," as popularly used, applying to quite a variety of forms as above indicated.
Some of these have their more specific designations as indicated under each.
mu'-tsa.
iMammilaria sp.
Cactus, mu'-tsai-kump.
Sidalcea, malvceflora Gray.
Cf.
mi'-ta-kump.
mu'-tsem-bi-a-d l-kup .
Townsendia sericea Hook, and other alpine forms eaten by the mountain sheep, mu'tu-nants-um-bi-ji.
Zauschneria calif omica Presl., Gilia aggregata, etc.
na'-da-pa-ra-na-gint.
Astragalus iodanthus Watson.
Buffalo-bean.
Cf.
da'pa-rai-niimp.
nai'-a-bip.
See ni'a-bip.
na'-na-rip.
Linum kingii Watson.
Flax, nah-ki-tco.
See nan'ki-tso.
nan'-ki-tso.
Samara of Negunda, Acer, etc.
Cf.
ka'bip.
nan'-tai-bitc.
See nan'te-bitc.
nan'-te-bitc.
Gnaphalium sprengelii Hook.
and Arn.
Cudweed.
Madia glomerata Hook.
ni'-a-ba-so-nip.
See ni'-a-bip.
ni'-a-bi.
Same as the following.
ni'-a-bip.
Deyeuxia canadensis Beau v. and strict a. Trin.
Reed Bent Grass.
Poa pratensis L. Blue Grass.
86 [Feb., Poa tenuifolia Nutt.
Bunch Grass; Meadow Grass.
ni'-di-ba.
Lycopus sinuatus Ell.
Water Horehound.
ni-dip.
Same as ni'-di-ba.
ni'-dip.
Same as ni'-di-ba.
ni'-nun-tsai.
Geum macrophyllum Willd.
na'-da-pu-gai-gi.
Spartina gracilis Trin.
Salt Grass, ni'-u-ru-pam-pi.
Ranunculus cymbalaria Pursh.
Buttercup, nu'-ro-pam-pi.
Same as preceding.
o'-a-kiimp.
Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt.
Cf.
mo'-a-kiimp and wi'-aken-dzip.
o'-a-pa-dza-ki.
Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt.
and umbellatum Torr.
Cf.
bi'-tca-mu-kiim for the first and sa'-na-kun-da for the second, o'-a-tump.
Avena saliva L. Oats, o'-b in-da-m a-nump .
Clematis douglasii Hook and ligusticufolia Nutt.
Virgin's Bower, o'-do.
Shortened from o'do-rop, which see.
o'-do-rop.
Same as o'ro-rop, the more usual form.
o'gip.
Phalaris arundinacea L. Canary Grass.
Aristida purpurea Nutt.
Tripleawned Grass.
Cf.
o'gwip; u'-gwip; toi'ya-o-gwip and yo'nip.
oi'-tcip.
Crataegus oxycanthus.
Thorn, oi'-tcun-goi-djok.
Sedum debile Watson, etc.
Stone-crop, oi'-tcu-mo.
Eriogonum cernuum Nutt.
and inflatum Torr.
oi'-tcu-o.
Same as the preceding.
oi'-tcu-yo.
See oi'-tcu-yo.
o'-ro-rop.
Agropyrum repens Beauv.
Blue-joint.
Cf.
wa'-don-dzip and pe'-gayu-gip.
Elymus canadensis L. Wild Rye; Lyme Grass.
Cf.
ti'-wa-bi-nip.
Elymus sibiricumL.
Wild Rye; Lyme Grass.
o'-ro.
Shortened form of o'-ro-rop, which see.
oi'-yink.
Solidago canadensis L.,nemoralis Ait., etc.
Golden-rod.
o'-a-yink.
Same as oi'-yink and about equally common with it.
Doubtless the original form (o'-a-bit, yellow, + yink).
1911.]
87 o-ka.
Salicornia herbacea L. Samphire.
Cf.
pa'-o-ka, which is the definite and far more frequent form, o'ka being narrowly applied to the other plant.
on'-tim-pai-wa.
Variant from on'-tim-pi-watsip, which see.
on'-tim-pi-wai.
See on'-tim-pi-wa-tsip.
on'-tim-pa-wa.
See on'-tim-pa-wa-tsip.
on'-tim-pa-wa-tsip.
See on'tim-pi-wa-tsip.
on'-tim-pi-a-wa.
See the following, on'-tim-pi-wa-tsip.
Chenopodium rubrum L. and capitatum Watson.
Pigweed, o'-pi.
Wood; tree or shrub; plant, pa-at'-ga. See pa-otq'-ga. pa'-bip.
pa'-bo.
From pa'-bo-go, which see.
pa'-bo-go.
Cnicus unci ula t us Gray .
Plumed Thistle, pa'-bo-gwo.
Same as the preceding, pa'-bu-ip.
Commonly used as a general term indicating plants growing in water or wet places with the leaves floating or above the water.
Dodecathion meadia L. Shooting Star.
Sagittaria variabilis Engelm.
Arrow-head.
See pa'bo-bu-ip.
pa'-bo-bu-ip.
Sagittaria variabilis Engelm.
Arrow-head, pa'-da-wi-si-go-iip.
pa'-ga-sau-wi-no-iip.
Delphinium bicolor Nutt.
and menziesii DC.
Larkspur, pa'-gi-gip.
Car ex jamesii Torr., fistira, etc.
Sedge.
Carex utriculata Boott.
Sedge.
Cf.
also ai'-bi-baip.
pa'-ga-so-nap.
Epilobium spicatum L. Willow-herb, pa'-go-no-gwip.
Sambucus glauca Nutt.
Elder, pa'-go-no-gip.
See pa'-go-no-gwip.
pa'-go-nu-ip.
pa'-gu-ip.
Polygonum hartwrightii Gray.
pa'-gwa-ntip.
Mentha canadensis L. Mint.
pa'-gwo-dziip.
Claytonia perfoliata Donn.
Spring Beauty.
pa'gwo-nup.
tChenopodium capitatum Watson.
Pigweed.
pa'-hu-ip.
Dodecathion meadia L. Shooting Star.
pa'-hwats.
Artemisia dracunculoides Pursh.
88 [Feb., paidj.
Phragmites communis Trin.
Reed, pai'-gip.
Same as pa'-gi-gip, which see.
pai'-ya.
Smilacina stellata Derf.
False Solomon's Seal, pai'-ya-bo-sip.
Lemna.
Duck-meat; Duckweed.
Cf.
wa'-da-bu-ip.
pai'-yo-nip.
Juncus bufonius.
Bog-rush, pa'-ma-wup.
Juncus balticus Deth.
and parryi Engelm.
Bog-rush, pa'-hwap.
See pa'-ma-wup.
pam'-bu-i-up.
Lycopodium sp.
pa'-mu.
Nasturtium palustre DC.
and var., etc.
Water-cress.
^Ranunculus aquatilis L. var.
pa'-mo See pa'-mu.
pa'-na-tl-so.
Mentha canadensis L. Mint.
See pa'-gwa-niip.
pa'-na-tsu.
Apparently the same as the preceding and etymologically preferable in such case (pa, water, + na'-tsu, medicine), pa'-na-wi.
Triglochin maritimum L. Arrow-grass, pa'-o-gump.
See the next.
pa -o-gum-pi.
Aquilegia cavrulea James.
Columbine.
Cf.
pa-wa-gum-pi.
pa'-o-ka; pa-o'-ka.
Salicornia herbacea L. Samphire; Glasswort.
pa'-oii-gop.
See pa'ofi-gup.
pa'-ofi-gup.
Hypnum sp.
Moss.
Polytrichum juniperinum.
Moss.
See tmi'-pin-pa-bo-i-up and pi'-a-pa-on-gup.
pa-otq'-ga. Aster adscendens Lindl.
Starwort; Aster, pa'-ra-ti-tsin-bo-gop.
?Argemone mexicana var.
hispida Gray.
Prickly Poppy.
Cf.
toi'-yan-bo-gop.
Probably the full form of pa'tsi-na-bo-gop, which see.
pa-o-tim-bitc.
Sium cicutifolium Gmelin.
Water Parsnip, pa'-ru-sip.
pa'-sa-gwip ; pa'-sa-gwup.
Cystopteris fragilis Bernh.
Fern, p a'-tsi-na-b o-gop .
Cnicus sp.
Plumed Thistle, pa'-sa-gwo-na-komp.
See pa'-sa-koi-na-komp.
pa'-sa-koi-na-komp.
Malvastrum coccineum Gray.
False Mallow.
Cf.
koi'-na-komp.
pa'-sa-ton-dzip.
Hedysarum mackenzii Richard.
1911.1 89 pa -sa-wi-gump.
Potentilla glandulosa Lindl.
Five Finger. ]
>a'-sa-wi-gnn-dza.
Heuchera rubescens Torr.
and other species.
Alum Root.
pa'-sa-pa-on-gop .
Glaux maritimum L. Sea Milkwort.
pa'-sa-wn-miits.
Stipa riridula Trin.
Feather Grass, pa'-si-hwu.
See pa'sa-hwii-miits.
pa'-si-go.
See pa'-si-gwip.
pa'-si-gwip (pa'-si-go-np).
Osmorrhiza nuda Torr.
Sweet Cicely.
IGlycosma occidentalis Nntt.
pa'-um-up.
See pa'-ma-wup.
pa'-iin-ga. Erigeron macranthus Nntt.
Fleabane.
Cf.
kai'-si-na-bo-gop.
pan'-wats.
See pa'hwats.
pa'-wa-pi.
Juniper us virginiana L. Red Cedar, pa'-wa-sip; pa'-wa-tsip.
pa'-yam-pa; pa'-yamp.
p i'-a-da-bi-wtimp .
See pi'-a-ta-bi-wiimp.
pi'a-ga. lEriogonum inflatum Torr.
Probably not specific, pi'-a-koi-na-komp .
Splmralcea emoryi Torr.
pi'-a-ken-dzip.
Wyethia amplexicaulis Nntt.
pi'-a-kn-hwa.
Mentzelia Icevicaulis Torr.
and Gray.
pi'-a-mo-a-giip.
See pi'-a-mo-ha-giip.
pi'-a-mo-ho-giip.
pi'-a-nank.
Mitella trifida Graham.
Mitrewort.
pi'-a-pa-bn-ip.
Sagittaria variabilis En gel m. Arrow-head.
See pa'-bo-bn-rp.
pi'-a-pa-on-gop.
Polytrichum funiperinum.
Moss, pi'-a-pa-otq-ga. Helianihella uniflora Torr.
and Gray.
Cf.
mu'ha-kiiinp.
pi'-a-koi-na.
Arabis retrofracta Gray, pi'-a-po-gop.
Glycosma occidentalis Nntt.
pi'-a-pa-wa-gump.
pi'-a-pa-ofi-gop-pai-dja-rnmp.
Polygonum amphibium L. pi'-a-ra-diim-bip.
Lonicera utahensis Watson and involucrata Banks.
Woodbine, pi'-a-ba-rum-bip.
See pi'-a-ra-diim-bip.
pi'-a-si-bo-i-nup.
Same as the following, pi'-a-si-bo-i-up.
Arabis retrofracta Gray.
Rock Cress, pi'-ats.
90 [Feb., pi'-a-ta-bi-wump.
Orthocarpus linearifolius Benth.
Cf.
ta'-bi-wump.
pi'-a-so-nlp.
pi'-a-wa-da.
Artemisia biennis Willd.
Cf.
on'-tim-pi-a-wa and wa'da.
pi'-ga-dit.
See pi'ga-yu-gip.
pi'-ga-yu-gip.
Agropyrwn repens Beau v. Blue-joint.
pi'-tca-gwa-mip.
Sphceralcea rivularis Torr.
pi'-wa-nup.
?Asclepidiora decumbens Gray.
pi'-o-ra.
A rather indefinite name applied loosely to Hedysarum and other tall or chimbing Leguminosae.
pi'-a-ka-gwa-nup.
Stachys palustris L. Wound Wort.
Only occasionally so designated, being commonly known as toi'-ya-ba-gwanup, which see.
po'-go.
See po'-gwo.
po'-go-nup.
Currant (general term); berry.
Ribes aureum Pursh.
Missouri Currant.
po'-gump.
See po'-go-nup.
po'-gwo.
Cnicus eaton\Graj.
Thistle.
po'-ho-bi.
Artemisia tridentata Nutt.
Sage-brush.
po'-ho-ru.
Aphyllon fasciculatum Torr.
and Gray.
Cancer-root, poi'-na.
See poi'-ya.
poi'-ya.
Sisymbrium canescens Nutt.
Hedge Mustard, po'-nak.
See poi'-ya pu'-i-ba-u.
Nicotiana attenuata Torr.
Tobacco, pu'-i-di-kup.
Medicago sativa L. Lucern; alfalfa, pu'-i-di-sas.
Erigeron leiomerus Gray.
Fleabane.
IMonardella odoratissima Genth.
pu'-i-pa-si-go.
Primula parryi Gray.
Primrose.
Cf.
toi'-ya-na-ti-bu-da.
pui-i-wa-nup.
Eriogonum brevicaide Nutt.
piin-go-na-tsu.
A general term applied to a considerable number of plants used as remedies for horses {pun'-go, horse, + na'-tsu, medicine).
Such are Galium aparine, Lygodesmia, Silene multicaulis, etc.
pu'-i-si-a-ka.
General name for green or growing plants (pu'-i-lnt, 1911.]
91 green, + si'-a-ka, plant, which see).
pun-go-un-da-mi.
A somewhat general term applied to a number of plants (from pun-go, horse, + un, possessive, + da' -mi).
Smilacina amplexicaulis Nutt.
and Triglochin maritimum L. are among the plants grouped under this name, utterly divergent forms being brought together upon a basis other than resemblance to each other, ri'-a-bi.
Rare for ni'-a-bi, which see.
sa'-gti-pi.
Salix amygdaloides Anders., lasiandra Benth., flavescens Nutt.
Willow, sai'-gi-tamp.
Spiranthes romazofjxana Cham.
Ladies' Tresses, saip.
Scirpus lacustris L. var.
occidentalis W. Bulrush, sai'-ya-hyu-gin.
Saponaria vaccaria.
Soapwort.
sa'-na-kun-da.
Eriogonum microthecum Nutt., ovali folium Nutt., unibellatum Tore, etc.
sa'-na-kint.
See sa'-na-kun-da.
si'-a-ka.
Plant, branch, shoot, etc.
si'-bi.
Phlox longifolia Nutt.
Sweet William; Phlox.
si'-bo-i-up.
Cleome lutea Hook, si'-bo-i-ump.
Nasturtium palustre DC.
var.
Water-cress, si'-bii-pi.
Bigelovia douglasii Gray .
Greater Rabbit-brush ; R a y 1 e s s Golden-rod.
Tetradymia canescens DC.
var.
so'-ho-bi.
Populus angustifolia James.
Cottonwood, si'-hip.
See si'-o-pi.
si'-gi.
Leaf, si'-go.
Calochortus niUtallii Torr.
and Gray.
Sego.
si'-na-tsu.
sni-giip.
See sin-gu-pi.
sm'-gu-pi.
Populus tremuloides Michx.
Quaking Aspen.
si'-o-pi.
General name for species of Salix corresponding to the English "willow."
The several types of willows, or rather some of them, have in addition more special names.
See under Salix in preceding list.
si'-wump.
Glyceria distorts Wahl.
and nervata Trin.
Manna Grass.
Cf.
also tai'-gwi-bi for the latter.
92 [Feb., so'-go-ba-gwip.
Br yum sp.
Moss.
san'-an-go-bi.
Abies menziesii Lindl.
Balsam, so'-ai-tiimp.
Agaricus.
Mushroom, so'-ko-ri-bo-ump.
Bryum sp.
(same as preceding).
Moss, so'-ko-ri-ump.
Berberis repens Lindl.
Oregon Grape, so'-nip.
General term corresponding to the English " grass."
sun.
From su'-no, which see.
su'-no.
Atriplex con fei'ti folia Watson, ta'bi-tci-gop.
See ta'-bi-si-go-up.
ta'-bi-si-go.
From ta'bi-si-go-up, which see.
ta'-bi-si-go-up.
Zygadenus nuttallii Gray.
Poison Sego.
ta'-bi-ci-pomp.
See ta'-bi-tci-pomp.
ta'-bi-si-bu-pi.
Bigelovia pulchella Gray.
Rabbit Brush, ta'-bi-tci-pomp.
See ta'bi-si-bu-pi.
ta'-da-bi.
Rhus toxicodendron L. Poison Oak or Ivy.
tai'-gwi-bi.
Glyceric: nervata Trin.
Cf.
si'-wtimp, also applied in more general way to this plant.
ta'-bi-wiimp.
Orthocarpos linear if olius Benth.
Cf.
pi'-a-ta-bi-wiimp.
ta'-ka-di-di-a-riip.
Abronia fragrans Nutt.
Sand Puff, ta'-kan-d l-dai-kup .
See ta'kan-di-di-di-a-gup.
ta'-kan-di-di-a-gfip.
Erigeron grandiflorus Hook.
Fleabane.
ta'-kum-bu-i.
Polygonum hartwrightii Gray.
Cf.
pa'-gu-ip.
ta'-ni-ktimp.
Arnica cordifolia Hook, ta'-tslp.
Pachystina myrsinites Raf .
Box.
tci'-cop.
Eurotia lanata Moq.
White Sage, te'-e-pa-ga-sa-wup.
ti'-a-bi.
Rosa nutkana Presl.
Rose, ti'-a-sa-ton-dzi.
Astragalus utahensis Torr.
and Gray.
Rattle-weed.
Cf.
to'-sa-wu-da.
ti'-ba.
Pine nuts ; nuts of Pinus monophylla.
ti'-a-tso-nap.
ti'-ba-wa-ra.
Pinus edulis.
Pinon Pine, ti'-ba-wa-na-ma-tsa-mo-gi.
ti'-ba-un-gop.
Pine Cone; cone of Pinus monophylla.
ti'-bo-hi.
Taraxacum officinale Weber.
Dandelion.
1911.]
93 ti'-da-kai-mi-ya.
Vaccinium ccespitosum Michx.
Bilberry, ti'-da-pa-wa-gump.
Aquilegia coerulea James.
Columbine.
See pa'wa-gump.
ti'-da-ya-giip.
Helenium autumnale L. and hoopesii Gray.
Sneezeweed.
Cf.
mo'ta-qa and toi'ya-mota-qa.
ti'-nai-hya.
Cf.
tim'ai-hya.
Mountain Tea.
tim'-bai-na-tsu.
General name for medicines used in sexual diseases or for plants furnishing such, tim'-bai-wi-gun-dza.
Parnassia parviflora DC.
Grass of Parnassus, tim'-bai-wi-gun-ta.
See tim'bai-wi-gun-dza.
tim'-bi-mo-a-gwa-nup.
Aplopappus macronema Gray and parryi Gray, tim'-bi-ma.
See tim'bo-ump.
t lm'-p in-ba-bu-ip .
See tim'pin-pa-bo-i-iip.
t Im-p m-p a-bo-i-up .
Polytrichum juniperinum.
Moss.
Cf.
pa'-on-gop.
tim'-bo-iimp.
See tim'-pm-tim-bo-i-iimp.
tim'-p in-tim-bo-i-ump .
Spircea ccespitosa Nutt.
tim'-ba-ip.
Heard occasionally for the preceding and applied generally to various other plants growing on cliffs and over rocks.
tim'-pi-sa-gwup .
Silene acaulis L. Catchfly.
tim'-pi-sa-wap.
t mi'-p m-so-kup .
General name for lichen.
tim'-pi-dza-na-kwo.
Senecio, several species, the latex of which was used for preparing" chewing-gum.
Groundsel.
t Iin'-p m-tu-nump .
Kalmia glauca Ait.
American Laurel.
tin'-a-bip.
Poa calif ornica Munro.
Meadow Grass.
Cf.
ni'a-bip.
tiii'-go-ip.
See tin'-gwip.
tm'-gwip.
ChamcBbatiaria millijolium Maxim.
^.Holodiscus discolor var.
dumosa.
ti'-nai-gop.
Urtica holosericea Nutt.
Nettle.
ti'-sas.
Erigeron glabellas Nutt., var.
Fleabane.
ti-so-nip.
Alopecurus aristvlatus Mx.
Foxtail Grass.
tin'-tsifi-ga, Cnicus drwnmondi Gray.
Plumed Thistle.
Cf.
also tsm'-ga. 94 [Feb., ti -um-pi.
Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt.
Service-berry.
ti'-wa-bi-nrp.
Elymus canadensis L. Wild Rye.
Cf.
o'-ro-rop.
ti'-ya-gup.
Helenium autumnale L. and hoopesii Gray.
Sneezeweed.
From ti'-da-yagup, q. vid.
to'-bai-ba-bi.
Bromus breviaristatus Thurl., etc.
Brome Grass.
to'-bai-bi.
See to'-bai-ba-bi.
to'-go-un-go-na.
Castille%a parviflora Bong., minor Gray.
Indian Paintbrush.
to'-dzup.
Ferula multifida Gray.
to'-ho-bai-bi.
See to'-bai-ba-bi.
to'-ho-bi.
Same as to'bai-ba-bi, being a shortening of the preceding form, to'-ho-bi-so-nip.
Probably another form for Bromus.
toi'-di-sas.
See toi'-y a-di-sas.
to'imp.
Typha latifolia L. Cat-tail, toi'-gu-pa-gunt.
Eriogonum villiflorum.
Plantago eriopoda Torr., patagonica Jacq., etc.
toi'-ya-ba-gwa-nup.
Lophanthus urticifolius Benth.
Dracocephalum parviflorum Nutt.
Dragon-head.
Scutellaria sp.
Skullcap.
General term for these closely related labiales, the seeds of all of which were gathered and used for food in the same manner, toi'-ya-ba-gwo-no-gip.
Actcea spicata L. Baneberry.
toi'-yaa-hv/ip.
See toi'ya-ba-o-pi.
toi'-ya-ba-o-pi.
Aplopappus suffruticosus Gray, macronema Gray, toi'-y a-ba-gwa-dzup.
Hydrophyllum occidentale Gray, capitatum.
Waterleaf.
toi'-ya-bin-da-tsip.
Jamesia americana Torr.
and Gray.
Symphoricarpos areophilus Gray.
Snowberry.
toi'-y a-bi-tum-b a-ga .
Valeriana edulis Nutt.
toi'-y a-biturn.
See toi'ya-bi-tum-ba-ga. toi'-y a-bo-go-nup .
toi'-ya-da-tsip.
See toi'ya-bi-tum-ba-ga. toi'-ya-da-ti-go-ra.
Erigeron glabellus Nutt.
Fleabane.
Cf.
under Erigeron in preceding list, toi'-ya-da-ti-bu-da.
?
Primula parry i Gray.
Primrose.
^Polygonum viviperum L 1911.]
95 toi'-ya-tim-ba-dzap.
Arenaria triflora var.
obtusa Watson.
Sandwort, toi'-ya-mo-gup.
See the next word, toi'-ya-moha-gup.
toi'-ya-mo-ha-gup.
Anemone multifida Poir.
Windflower, toi'-ya-mo-ta-gomp.
Mertensia alpina Don.
Lungwort, toi'-ya-mu-ti-ga. Helenium hoopesii Gray.
Sneezeweed.
Cf.
ti'-da-ya-gup.
toi'-y a-na-bo-gop .
Argemone mexicana var., hispida Gray.
Prickly Poppy, toi'-ya-na-ti-bu-da.
See toi'-ya-da-ti-bu-da.
toi'-y a-gwa-nup.
Saxifraga nivalis L. Saxifrage, toi'-ya-o-gwip.
Aristida purpurea Nutt.
Triple-awned Grass.
Cf.
o'-gwip and yo'-nip.
toi'-ya-di-sas.
Chrysopsis villosa Nutt.
Golden Aster, toi'-ya-ra-ta-boi-ya.
toi'-ya-ro-dzip.
Sium cicutifolium Gmelin.
Water Parsnip, toi'-ya-sa-ton-dzi.
toi'ya-ta-son-dzi.
toi'-y a-si-wump.
Festuca ovina var., brevi folia.
Watson.
Fescue Grass, toi'-y a-o-ro-rop.
toi'-ya-so-nip.
Deschampsia caspitosa Beauv.
var.
Hair Grass.
toi'-ya-wiin-ta-mu-ta-qa.
toi'-ya-wi-tiim-ba-ga. Erythronium grandiflommi Pursh .
Dog-tooth Violet.
The full form is probably toi'ya-wiint-um-ba-ga (toi'ya-wiint, canyon.)
Contrast toi'-y a-bi-tum-ba-ga {toi f -ya-bi, mountain) .
toi'-y a-wi-tiim-ba.
See toi'-y a-bi-tiim-ba-ga, from which this is shortened.
ton'-gi-cip.
Primus demissa Walpers.
Choke-cherry.
Cf.
to'-o-nump.
ton'-tso.
Trifolium, various species, corresponding in usage precisely, or nearly so, to our English word " clover."
to'-no-pi.
to'-pai-ba-bi.
See to'bai-ba-bi.
to'-pai-bi.
Shortened from to'pai-ba-bi.
to'-sa-na-tsu.
A koi'-na-tsu prepared from or consisting of the roots of Heuchera rubescens Torr.
and related species and of species of Mitella, which see in the preceding list.
Sometimes applied to the plants themselves.
to'-sa-wu-da.
Astragalus utahensis Torr.
and Gray.
Rattleweed.
96 [Feb., For significance see under this name in the precedinglist, to'-o-niimp.
Primus demissa Walpers.
Choke-cherry.
Cf.
ton'-gi-cip.
toi'-y a-wan-go-gip .
tlvesia gordonia Torr.
and Gray, toi'-y a-bo-go-niip.
Ribes oxycanthoides L. Currant, toi'-y a-po-go-niip.
Same as the preceding, tsi'-gi-tump.
Oenothera biennis L. Evening Primrose, tsi'-na.
See tsin'-ga-bo-gop.
tsi'-na-bo-gop.
Cnicus drummondi Gray.
Plumed Thistle.
Cnicus undulatus Gray, tsm'-ga. See tsin'-ga-bo-gop.
tsifi'-ga-bo-gop.
Same as tsi'na-bo-gop, and the preferable form.
Cnicus drummondi, and undulatus Gray.
Plumed Thistle, tsi'-ump.
Berries of Rosa calif or nica and fendleri Crepin.
tsi'-o-pi.
Rosa calif or nica and fendleri Crepin.
Rose, tsom'-ba.
Same as tsom'-bai-bi.
tsom'-bai-bi.
Same as tso'-ni-baip.
tso'-ni-baip.
Lithospermum pilosum Nutt.
and multiflorum Torr.
tso'-nap.
Same as tso'ni-baip, which see.
tso'-hwa, tu'-go-wa-tsip.
Ckrysopsis villosa Nutt., etc.
Golden Aster, tu'-go-wi-nup.
Pentstemon confertiis Dougl.
var.
tu'-hi-niip.
Cercocarpus parvifolius Nutt.
tu'-i.
Urtica sp.
tu'-ku-ba-giimp.
Delphinium bi color Nutt.
and menziesii DC.
Larkspur, tu'-kwun-da-mi.
See tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a.
tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a.
Rubus leucodermis Dougl.
Raspberry.
tu'na.
Cymopterus montanus Torr.
and Gray, tu'-nam-pi.
Cercocarpus ledifolius Nutt.
Mountain Mahogany, tu'nump.
Same as tu'-nam-pi, which see.
tu'-pam-pi.
See tu'-ro-vi-pam-pi.
tu'-ro-pam-pi.
Shortened from tu'-ro-vipam-pi, which see.
tu'-ro-sip.
Ambrosia psilostachya DC.
Ragweed.
Iva axilaris Pursh.
tu'-ro-vi-pam-pi.
1911.]
97 Rudbeckia occidentalis Nutt.
Cone-flower, tu'-si-gip.
Epilobium coloratum Mu hi.
Willow-herb, tu'-tom-pi.
A shrubby plant mentioned by Indians, but not identified by the author, u'-di-up.
Betida occidentalis Hook.
Birch.
u'-gai-gut.
u'-gu-pi.
Beckmannia cruciformis Host.
Slough Grass, u'-i-tcib.
See ai'-tcib.
u'na-tso-mo-gi.
Humulus lupulus L. Hop.
Cf.
wa'-na-na-tso-mo-gi.
u'sa.
Epilobium alpinum L. Willowherb, u'-gu-dzup.
Alnus incana Willd.
Alder, wa'-bi.
Melica poceoides Nutt.
Melic Grass, wa'da.
Suaeda depressa Watson.
Seablite.
wa'-don-dzip.
Agropyrum repens Beauv.
Bluejoint.
See also under Agropyrum, in the preceding list, wai.
Oryzopsis cuspidata Benth.
Mountain Rice, wa'-da-bu-ip.
Lemna sp.
Duckweed.
7 wai'-ump.
Probably full form for wai, but only rarely heard, wai'-a-na-tsu.
General term for medicines used for burns or for plants producing such, wa'-na-ma-tsa-mo-gi.
See next word, wa'-na-na-tsa-mo-gi.
Humulus lupulus L. Hop.
wa'-na-tsi-mu-gi.
See preceding word, wan'-di-wa-sip.
See wan'-di-wa-siimp.
wan'-di-w a-sump .
Epipactis gigantea Dougl.
wan'-gm-gip.
Chamactis douglasii Hook, and Arn.
Cf.
ko'-si-bo-qun-tos.
wafi-go-gip.
Achillea millefolium L. Yarrow, wa'-niip.
Humulus lupulus L. Hop.
Cf.
wa'-na-na-tsa-mo-gi.
wa'-na-gint.
Potentilla fruticosa L. Fivefinger.
Cf.
wa'-tsi-gint.
wafi'-go.
Pseudotsuga douglasii Carr.
Douglas Spruce.
Cf.
an'-go-bi.
wan'-dzi-baip.
Eleocharis palustris R. Br.
Spike Rush, wa'-pi.
Juniperus californica var.
utahensis, etc.
Cedar; Juniper.
98 [Feb., wap'-um-pi.
Cedar berries; fruit of Juniperus californica var.
utahensis.
wa'-si-prt.
Silene acaulis L. Catchfly.
See also tim'-pi-sa-gwup.
wa'-tslp.
Bark.
wa'-tsi-gunt.
Potentilla fruticosa L. Fivefinger.
Cf.
wa'-na-gunt.
wi'-a-ken-dzip.
Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt.
wi'-kun-dza.
See wi'-gun-dza.
wi'-gun-dza.
Heuchera rubescens Torr.
Alumroot, wi'-gon-dzip.
?Ranu?iculus sp.
win'-au-tsaug.
A gum or mucilage prepared from Malvastrum munroanum and used on the inside of earthen vessels as a filling.
Also the name is sometimes applied to the plant itself.
wi'-na-go.
Fritillaria pudica Spreng.
Lily; Yellow Bell; Buttercup, wi'-tcup.
Trisetum subspicatum Beauv.
w I'-sa-p o-go-nup .
Ribes divaricatum Currant.
Dougl.
wf-sa-po-gump.
Same as wi'sa-po-go-nup, which see.
wi'-djan-gwo-djop.
Arenaria triflora var.
obtusa Watson.
Sandwort.
Cf.
toi'yan-tim-ba-dzap.
wu'-da-wa-nup.
Apocynum androsaemifolium L. Indian Hemp; Dogbane.
wu'-si-bin-gint.
Phacelia menziesii Torr.
and circinata Jacq.
wu'-si-gunt.
Same as wu'-si-bin-gint, which see.
wu'-da-un-di-kup.
A somewhat general term applied to a number of plants which are eaten or the fruit of which is eaten by bear.
Such are Lonicera, Smilacina, etc., which, of course, have in addition their more special designations.
See under the respective names in the preceding list.
wu'-bu-i-nup.
Lepidium intermedin Gray.
Peppergrass.
wu'-pi.
Wood, woody plant, stick, etc.
Cf.
o'pi.
yamp.
See yam'-pa. yam'-pa. Carum gairdneri Benth.
and Hook.
1911.]
99 y am'-p a-gwa-nup .
Er odium cicutarium L'Her.
Alnlaria; Crane's-bill, yo'-go-ti-wi-ya.
Silene menziesii Hook.
Catchfly.
_ yo'-go-ti-wi-yu.
See the preceding word, yo'-nip.
Aristida purpurea Nutt.
Tripleawned Grass.
yo'-ni-co-nrp.
See yo'-ni-so-nlp.
yo'-ni-so-nip.
?Deschampsia danthonioides Munro.
?Hair Grass.
Glyceria distans Wahl.
Manna Grass.
Festuca tenella Willd.
