SOUTHERN UNITED STATES.
.
BY PROF. ANQELO HEILPRIN.
Eocene of Texas.
In a limited collection of fossils from near the northern border of San Augustine Co., Texas, transmitted to me for examination hy the Texas State Geological and Scientific Association, I have been able to determine the following species : Ostrea Alabamiensis.
Cardita Blandingi (aUicosta).
Ostrea sellaformis.
Crassatella antestriata.
Ostrea divaricata.
Corbula Texana.
Pecten Desliayesii.
Buecitriton altile?
{Texana).
Anomia f Scalaria sp.
indet.
The horizon represented is evidently the " Claibornian," the deposits probably occupying a position in the " Jacksonian " area.
The Nummulitic of Florida.
Prof. G. A. Wetherby, of Cincinnati, has furnished me with a number of rock fragments obtained at a locality some six miles southwest of Gainesville, Fla.
They are interesting as containing, in addition to one or more species of Orbitoides, several nearly perfect individuals of Nummulites Floridanus Heilprin, which, therefore, represent the most northern locality in the State where the members of this group of Foraminifera have thus far been found.
They lend further confirmation to the views already advanced by the writer as to the broad extent of the southern Nummulitic formation, and to the relative antiquity of the Floridan peninsula.
One considerable fragment of a Heterostegina is also represented in the rock.
Since the receipt of Prof. Wetherby 's specimens I have been favored, through Mr. Joseph Willcox, of this cit}'', with other fragments from approximately the same locality, Arredonda, Alachua Co., which also contain Nummulites Floridanus, Orbiloides, and Operculina rotella ( 0. complanata ?).
Eocene of Kentucky.
Mr. R. H. Loughridge has kindly forwarded to me for determination a number of fossils collected by the Geological Survey of Kentucky, from the immediate neighborhood of Paducah.
They are mainly in the form of casts in a highly ferruginous and fairly micaceous yellow-white sandstone, 5 and in the most part recognizable only in so far as the determination of genera is concerned.
The species are referable to the following genera : Mysla species probably M. unguUna.
Leda species probably L, protexta.
Leda species indet.
Nucula species probably N. ovula.
Turritella species Turritella Mortoni.
This is, as far as I am aware, the first notification of the discovery of marine fossils in the Tertiary deposits of the State.
The presence of the strongly carinate form of Turritella Mortoni fixes pretty definitely the horizon, the Lower Eocene, or that of the older Tertiaries of Maryland and Virginia.
This is what we should have expected to find from the position of the strata.
March 2.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
March 9.
Mr. Edw.
Potts in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
The deaths of Jesse W. Starr, and of Ward B. Haseltine, members, were announced.
Botanical Notes : Secretion of Nectar in Lihonia.
At the meeting of the Botanical Section, on the 8th instant, Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that the Brazilian Acanthaceous plant, Lihonia, secreted an enormous amount of nectar at the base of the flowers.
As the corollas faded, and dropped from the receptacle, the nectar would be drawn over the still fresh pistil, and leave it with a succession of small globules, the whole shining like a necklace of diamonds in the sun.
In a state of nature, honey-collecting insects would doubtless not permit it to accumulate to this extent.
Production of Nectar in Ornithogalum coarctatum.
This pretty species is distinguished by the development of broad sheathing stipular appendages at the base of the inner series of three stamens, stipular appendages as, following Mr. Worthington G. Smith, in a paper contributed to the Horticultural Congress in London in 1865, we must feel bound to term them.
These appendages were closely appressed against the ovarium.
Noticing little brownish globules projecting above the edges of these appendages he was led to examine, and found that nectar was secreted only at the base of the stipulate stamens.
It was produced in such quantity as to press upwards and above the edges, as already noted.
It was of thick consistence, and with the exact odor of honey.
Above or near the apex of the ovarium at 'the base of the short style nectar exuded in limited quantity, and this suggested an analogy between the morphology of the carpellary leaves and the stipular filaments.
Mr. Meehan further remarked on the production of stipular appendages by the petals of flowers as accounted for by Mr. Worthington Smith.
In one of his earliest contributions to the Proceedings of the Academy he had shown that in Magnolia the petals were formed by the suppression of the laminal portions and the development of the stipules.
The petals were indeed modified stipules, not true leaves.
The petals of roses were certainly modified stipules, and tliis process of development could be traced in many plants.
In this species of Ornithogalum there is but a slight dilation at the base of the outer whorl of stamens.
A great advance is made in the stipular development in the inner whorl of stamens, where the appendages extend half-way up the filament.
The three carpellary leaves formed the next whorl, and we might reasonably imagine a greater development of the stipular energ}^ in a succeeding whorl, and therefore that these carpels were also enlarged stipules.
An absolute proof of this was afforded by one plant, which had the habit of producing some flowers with an union evident from the ph3'llotax3', of an outer petal (or sepal) with a stamen of the inner verticil.
In this case the staminoid petal took the shape of the stipule, that is to say, it was emarginate, or inversely saggitate at the apex, the filament being wholly wanting, and with the anther in the sinus.
An additional fact of interest connected with this species is, that a large number of plants among seedlings, though with stamens apparently perfectlj'' formed, have wholly sterile anthers.
Seeds on Depauperite Plants.
A specimen of a grass, Setaria viride, was exhibited, not over half an inch high, but which had a large number of perfect seeds nearly mature.
It was exhibited to show that such minute plants might grow and produce seed annually for many successive j^ears, the plants each year reproducing themselves among other vegetation, without any one being aware of their existence.
When such tracts were ploughed up, and plants like this grass get a good chance to develop themselves fully, it would appear that there had not been any plant of the species growing for years, and the fact used to illustrate the long vitality of seeds in the earth.
It might be that there was good evidence that cases of long vitality were undoubted ; but it served a good purpose to point out where error may creep in.
Of Bracts in Gruciferee.
It was an axiom that no true cruciferse had bracts to the flowers.
The double Sweet Al3'ssum of gardens, Koniga maritima, seemed an exception to this rule.
The lower flowers were always solitary in the axils of the leaves, and the leaves were often reduced to mere bracts for a long distance up among the flowers.
Branches but not flowers in cruciferse would spring from the axils of the leaves.
An examination of these double flowers sliowed that man}' had not followed the rule in double flowers, by transforming stamens to petals.
Some, in fact, showed thej^ were arrested branches, with depauperite leaves, a solitary petal being produced in the axil of each little leaf.
The sepals seemed united, and formed a sort of sheath-like bract, above which the petal emerged.
In this form they appeared as arrested spikes.
The Coronal Disk in Spiraea.
Exhibiting some flowers of Spiraea Reevesiana^ Mr. Meehan called attention to the elevated disc which rose on the inner face of the line of filaments, and pointed out the correspondence in outline of each division with the form of the two-celled anther.
The inner line of stamens were alternate with these divisions, and the whole study led to the conclusion that this little crown was composed of the immature anthers of abortive stamens.
He referred to Acer ruhrum, and other plants, where, in the abortion of stamens the anthers were generally almost fully formed before the development of the filament, and remarked that in trul}^ female flowers of this maple there was a course of sterile anthers as in this Spirsea.
March 16.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
March 23.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-eight persons present.
Fermentation in Perevji^s Fluid.
Dv.
Benjamin Sharp remarked that in a bottle of Perenji's fluid (nitric acid 10 per cent, sol.
4 pts., Chromic acid ^ per cent.
sol.
3 pts., 95 per cent.
Alcohol 3 pts.)
effervescence was noticed.
On shaking the bottle and removing the cork the fluid frothed violently, resembling very active beer ; when the frothing had to a certain extent subsided, another shaking produced another violent frothing.
The fluid had been used for hardening chick emlnyoes,and the portion used had been turned back so that a slight sediment was in the bottom of the bottle, and from this sediment the frothing seemed to originate.
The sediment was examined with a high power lens, and Bacteria were found in great numbers.
Thej^ were probably introduced with the sediment caused by the hardening of the organic tissues upon which thej' lived.
On the Eye of Pecten.
Prof. Sharp further called the attention of the members to the eye of Pecten.
In one of his articles (On the Yisual Organs of the Lamellebranchiata, Mitth.
Zool.
Stat.
Neapel, 1884, p. 457), he makes the following assertion : " The question as to the function of this organ (the socalled eye of Pecten) is one of considerable interest.
Hickson states that a few experiments have been made on this subject, concerning the visual power of this animal ; he says ' It is very doubtful whether they (the so-called eyes) are of much value to the animal in avoiding its enemies.
The most reasonable theory of their function seems to be that when in the ebbing tide, a probability arises that they will be left high and dry on the shore, the}^ can appreciate the fact b}'' the growing intensity of the light, and by that peculiar flapping motion of the valves the Pectens are so remarkablefor, move away into deeper water.'
This theory may at once be set aside when we consider that the Pectens of the Mediterranean, where we have practically no tide at all, a state of affairs that has existed for an exceedingly long period of time, have as well developed eyes as those found on shores where tides do exist ; and further, it seems hardly probable that such a complicated organ would have developed to detei'mine for the animal whether it be out of water or not.
.
.
.
As regards the complicated organ known as the eye, I might suggest that, if this be an eye, it is one where we have no true pigmented laj^er in any direct relation to either the nerve or the retina.
The mass of red pigment and the metallic-like tapetum would hardly answer the place of the black choroid coat so essential to the eye."
Dr. Sharp stated that at the time the above was written, he was under the impression that the organ was probably a phosphorescent organ, but he had no proof of it.
At Nantucket he obtained many specimens of the animal and.
found that the edge of the mantle was phosphorent, and on questioning Dr. Kite, formerly of the " Fish-Hawk," who had often seen Pecten dredged at night, he was informed that the phosphorent condition of Pectens had often been observed.
He thought it was not unreasonable to suppose that organs for the emission of light should be formed upon the same general principles as organs for the admission of light, hence the similarity of these organs to eyes.
He further stated that this function (phosphorescence) would be of great use to the animal in obtaining its food.
On Amia and its probable Taenia.
Prof. Leidy stated that in our market on Saturday last, three Mud-fishes, Amia calva, had been given to him.
They came in a barrel of shad from North Carolina.
One was a female about two feet long, the others male, of which the smallest was eight inches.
Protruding from the vent of the latter was a little tape-worm, which, on disturbance, retreated into the rectum.
Three other worms of the same kind were found in the mouth, but none were in the intestine of this or the other fishes.
The worms accord with the description of the Tsenia filicolis, infesting Sticklebacks, Gasterosteus, and is probably the same species.
They range from 1^ to 3 inches long, gradually widening from the delicate thread-like neck to the posterior rounded extremity where thc}^ measure from !
to TS mm.
wide.
The head is spheroidal, variably broader or longer, and about 0'625 mm.
; with the summit slightly prominent and unarmed, and with four hemispherical, lateral bothi'ia 0'25 mm.
in diameter.
Neck variable ; when extended, long and narrow and usually about half the width of the head.
Anterior segments, transversely linear, about an eighth the length of the hreadth ; graduall}^ becoming inverted saucer-shaped or scutellate, and about one-fourth the length of the breadth.
Posterior segments more quadrate, slightly widening behind, about 0'75 mm.
long and from 1to 1-5 mm.
broad.
Last segment longest and rounded.
Genital apertures marginal.
March 30.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twelve persons present.
Prof. J. C. Arthur was elected a correspondent.
The following was ordered to be printed : REVISION OF THE PAL^OCRINOIDEA.
BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER, Part III Section II.
SuBOKDEK ARTICULATA.
The Articulata include the group formerly defined by us under the family name Ichth3'ocrinid{e, with the addition of Grotalocrinus and Enallocrinus, which possess in a remarkable degree some of the most characteristic features of the group.
We have elsewhere shown that our former definition of the structure of the ventral surface in the Ichthj'ocriuidae was faultj'^ in the use of the word " soft," in which we did not have in mind the idea of membranous as opposed to calcareous, or of disk as opposed to vault, but simply employed the word to express more stronglj^ the notion that the vault was not rigid.
We maintain, however, that the outer test of the ventral side in this group was a continuous integument, composed of calcareous plates, united by ligament and not by a close suture, and that by reason of this structure and the articulation among the plates of the dorsal side it must have been pliant or flexible.
The exact nature of this integument we do not know.
The plates may have been arranged in various waj^s ; they may even have been imbricated in some types like the interambulacral plates in some Periechocrinidae, and even in some of the true Echini these are points we may perhaps never be able to settle.
That there was an inner integument roofed in and covered by the flexible vault we have mentioned, and that it contained the summit plates and " covering pieces " we know to be true in the Crotalocrinidae, and we think it altogether probable that the general plan of the ventral structure for the Articulata generally is expressed in that of Grotalocrinus.
The eflfect of the patelloid plates, observed in Forhesiocrinus^ in permitting mobility in the whole skeleton, has been heretofore mentioned.
The suggestions we then made are confirmed by the discovery of the remarkable articulation not onl}'^ among the radials themselves, but also between the radials and interradials (PL 6, figs, 3-5).
This articulate structure, and the consequent mobility in the test, and flexibility^ of the vault, we consider chavacteristic of the whole group, though it may vary in degree, and is probably far less perfect in some genera than in Forbesiocrinus and Onychocrinus.
Zittel (Handb.
d.
Palseont., i, p. 353-5-6), has separated the genera which belong to this suborder into three families, viz.
: = Taxocrinidae, including: (A), Taxoc7'inus, Forbesiocrinus, Onychocrinus, Gissocrinus, 3Iyelodactylus ; (B), Lecythocrinus (?
), Dactylocrinus {Dimerocrinus Pictet); Ichthyocrinidae, including : Bomalocrinus, Lecanocrinus, Clidochirus, Mespilocrinus, Ichthyocrinus, Anisocrinus and Pycnosaccus; Crotalocrinidse, including Crotalocrinus, Enallocrinus, Gleiocrinus.
Angelin refers Taxocrinus, Forbesiocrinus, Gissocrinus and Myelodactylus to the Taxocrinidse ; Ichthyocrinus and Pycnosaccus to the Ichthyocrinidffi ; Crotalocrinus to the Crotalocrinidse and Enallocrinus to the Enallocrinidae.
The so-called genus Myelodactylus may be left out of consideration.
It was founded upon columns only, and, if correctly identified by Angelin, which is improbable, it would not belong to the Articulata at all.
A separation of the genera included by us in the Ichthyocrinidse into two families is desirable, but all attempts to define satisfactory characters for such families have so far failed.
We have tried to arrange them according to Zittel's definition as well as various plans of our own, but without success, and we have come to the conclusion that the separation must be based upon characters as yei undetected.
It is a remarkable and perplexing fact that in this whole group such characters as the presence or alisence of interradials dorsally, the number of primary radials, or the position of the anal or azygous plate, whether resting on the basals or not, seem to be of little value.
Until some new light shall be obtained we see no other course than to leave the family Ichthyocrinidse as we have already defined it.
Gissocrinus, which is placed by Angelin and Zittel among the Taxocrinidse on account of having three underbasals, belongs to the Fistulata, and has been referred by us to the Cyathocrinidae, as have also Lecythocrinus and Dactylocrinus.
In addition to the genera formerly included by us, we refer C yrtidocrinus to the Ichthyocrinidse.
Gleiocrinus was independently referred by Zittel to the Crotalocrinidse, and by us to the Ichthyocrinidffi.
It differs from all other Articulata in the position of the interradials and may prove to be the type of a distinct family.
F. Roemer established the family Anthocrinidae to receive Anthocrinus and Crotalocrinus, and Pictet, as Dnjardin and Hup^, recognized the family Anthocrinidffi, but referred to it only Anthocrinus.
As Anthocrinus proves to be a synon3"m, the family name will fall with it, and we shall distinguish the family as Crotalocrinidae, and follow Zittel in referring to it Crotalocrinus, Enallocrinus, but not Gleiocrinus.
The Crotalocrinidae are distinguished by the possession of a ventral tube or anal appendage, located ventrally near the periphery.
In Crotalocrinus it consists of a tube composed of eight A^ertical rows of heavy quadrangular pieces.
In Enallocrinus its form is unknown.
The famil}^ differs from the Ichthyocrinidse in a similar way as Platycrinidae from Actinocrinidie in that the higher radials are imperfectly developed.
The Articulata, therefore, fall into two families, which are defined as follows : A. IcHTHYOCRiNiDiE.
Basc dicyclic.
Underbasals unequal, proportionally very small, rarely visible externally.
Basals generally small.
Dorsal cup chiefly built up of radial plates of different orders, abutting laterally against each other or separated by interradials.
Number of radials variable in genera, species and individuals.
Radial and arm plates decreasing in size in the successive orders, each division being about half as wide as the preceding one, and of uniform size in corresponding divisions of the ray, but the plates of adjacent raj'^s generally alternate with each other.
The line of articulation between radials and arm plates is frequently undulating, and there are sometimes additional patelloid pieces.
Arms uniserial, bifurcating, generally touching laterall}^ so as to form a wall continuous with the calyx.
Arm plates with straight sides and very deep ambulacral grooves.
Pinnules apparently wanting.
Interradial system chiefly developed on the ventral side.
Special anal plate sometimes resting on the basals, sometimes upon the radials, and sometimes wanting dorsally.
Anus unknown in most of the genera.
The radials are united longitudinally by articulation, laterally b}^ ligament, the interradials among each other and with the radials by a loose suture, admitting of motion and producting flexibility in the calyx and vault.
B. CrotalocriniDuE.
Base dicyclic.
Underbasals unequal, small.
Basals generally large.
Radials so far as known, 2X5.
Arras nniserial, with numerous branches, spreading broadly.
The branches of each raj' partly or completely connected by lateral projections or direct union.
When completely connected, they form reticulated leaves overlapping when folded.
Pinnules wanting.
Ambulacral fui'row deep, ramifying with the arm branches, covered by alternating plates and bordered by side pieces.
The first anal plate rests on the basals ; it is followed by others which form the base of a ventral tube.
Interradials numerous, covering the entire ventral surface, but not more than one or two sometimes none are exposed dorsally.
Calj^x roofed over by a pliant integument of irregular plates, extending over the arm bases, and enclosing the summit plates and covering pieces of the disk.
Ventral tube lateral.
Family XI.
-ICHTHYOCRINIDJE W. and Spr.
We are of the opinion that some of the genera described by Angelin are founded upon characters of specific value only, but as the original specimens are unique and inaccessible to us, we cannot, at present, undertake to review them.
ICHTHYOCRINUS Conrad, Ecv.
i, p. 33.
No new species of Ichthyocrinus have been described since our first list, in which, however, we omitted to notice Ichthyocrinus arthriticus (d'Orbigny), mentioned in Prodr.
i, p. 46, which is a Gissocrinus, and also Ichthyocrinus capillar is and /.
goniodactijlus (d'Orbigny), which Phillips had correctly referred to Gyathocrinus.
HOMALOCRINUS Angl., Rev.
i, p. 35.
ANISOCRINUS Angl., Rev.
i, p. 37.
CALPIOCRINUS Angl., Rev.
i, p. 38.
LECANOCRINUS Hall, Rev.
i, p. 39.
1882.
L. Soyei Oehlert.
Bull.
Soc.
Geol.
tie France (ser.
3), vol.
x, p. 354, PI.
8, fig.
2.
Lower Devonian.
Near Sabre, France, Lecanocrinus elegans Billings, see Taxocrinus elegans Billings; Lecanocriuus laevis, Taxocrinus laevis.
CYRTIDOCRINUS Angl., Rev.
i, p. 145.
Cyrtidocrinus was placed by xis among the " imperfectly known genera," but should be referred to the Ichthyocrinidse, as it is closely allied to Lecanocrinus, from which it differs only in having four in place of three underbasals.
Like that genus it has a small, quadrangular azygous piece, placed obtusel}^ against the posterior" basal, and between it and the right posterolateral radial.
The upper radials are extremely narrow.
The only known species is Cyrtidocrinus fascietatus Angelin.
PYCNOSACCUS Angl., Rev.
i, p. 41.
MESPILOCRINUS De Kon and Leh., Rev.
i, p. 41.
TAXOCEINUS Phill., Rev.
i, p. 4.3.
Additional species : *1884.
Taxocrinus Beyrichi (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Zeacrinus Beyrichi ; Extr.
des Ann.
de la Soc.
G^ol.
de Belg., Tome xi, p. 112, PI.
1, fig.
5.
Dev.
superieur.
Senzeille, France.
1882.
T. curtus Williams, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phi.
'a., p. 30.
Portage group.
Ithaca, N. Y.
*1856.
T. elegans (Billings), Lecanocrinus elegans Rep. gfeol.
Surv.
Canada, p. 278; also 1859, Decade iv, p. 47, pi.
4, fig.
4 a h. Trenton limest.
City of Ottawa, Can.
We consider this species, and also Lecanocrinus laevis E. Billings, to be Taxocrinus.
They evidently possess no azygous plate, as they should have if they belonged to Lecanocrinus.
Taxocriaus Egertoni ( Poteriocrinus Egertoni Phill.
^= Cladocrinus Egertoni Aust.
), Rev.
i, p. 48, is probably an Onychoorinus having 6-7 radials.
1882.
Taxocr.
Fletcheri, Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 31 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois vii, p. 308, PI.
30, fig.
2.
Kinderhook gr.
Marshall Co., Iowa.
1882.
T. ithacensis Williams, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 29, PI.
1, fig.
10.
Portage gr.
Ithaca, N. Y.
*1856.
T. laevis (E. Billings), Lecanocrinus laevis, Rep. Geol.
Surv.
Canada, p. 278; also 1859, Decade iv, p. 47, PI.
4, fig, 3 .
Trenton limestone.
City of Ottawa, Can.
*1836.
T. nobilis (Phill.
), Poteriocrinus nohilis Geol.
Yorkshire, p. 205, PI.
3, fig.
40.
This species has been regarded by some authorities as identical with Forbesiocrinus nobilis De Kon.
and Lehon ; but is in our opinion not only specifically distinct, but in all probability a Taxocrinus.
Mountain limest.
Bolland, Engl.
1852.
T. oligoptylus (Pacht.).
Dimerocrinus oligoptylus Beitr., x. Kenntniss der Gattung Dimerocrinus, St. Peter^^burg, p. 8, with 3 plates.
Devonian.
Costijitsi, Russia.
Syn.
Dimerocrinus aptilis Pacht.
N. B. Taxocrinus priscus (Schnur.)
Steinninger, 1853, Geogr.
Beschr, d. Eifel, p. 37, is not sufficiently defined for identification.
GNOKIMOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev.
i, p. 50.
FORBESIOCEINUS De Koninck, Rev.
i, p. 51.
Additional species : 1859.
Forbesiocrinus Saffordi Hall, Suppl.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa, p. 87.
Keokuk limestone.
AVhite's Creek, Tenn. 1879.
F. parvus Wetherby, Jour.
Cinein.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(October number), p. 5, PI.
11, tigs.
4 a h. Kaskaskia gr.
Pula.ski county, Ky. N. B. Forbesiocrinus Whitfieldi Hall, which has been referred to the genus Taxocrinus, according to Meek and Worthen (Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
v, p. 553), came from the Kaskaskia group, of Randolph Co., 111., and not from the Keokuk limestone, as stated by Hall.
It also occurs at that horizon in Pulaski Co., Ky. LITHOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev.
i, p. 52.
ONYCHOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev.
i, p. 53.
1882.
Onychocrinus distensus Worthen, Bull.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist , p. 31, also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 307, PI.
29, fig.
5.
Kaskaski gr.
Monroe Co., 111.
(AVe are unable to distinguish this specimen from 0. cxsciilptus Lyon and Cass.)
NIPTEROCRINUS Wachsm., Rev.
i, p. 55.
Zittel (Handb.
der Pal., p. 352) refers this genus to the Cyathocrinidse^ probably on account of its three small underbasals.
The presence of interradials clearlj^ removes it from that family, and its waving sutures leave no doubt that it was properly placed by us among the Ichthyocrinidse.
Family XII.
CROTALOCRINID^.
CROTALOCRINUS Austin, 1843.
Austin, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Ser.
I, vol.
xi, p. 198.
1848.
Moiris, Cat.
Brit, Foss., Ed.
1, p. 50.
1854.
Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria, Ed.
2, p. 219.
1855.
McCoy, Brit.
Pal.
Foss., p. 55.
1873.
Salter, Cat.
Mus.
Cambr., p. 123.
1878.
Angelin, Icon.
Criu.
Suec, p. 36, 1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Pal,, i, p. 356.
1882.
De Loriol, Pal.
d. France, tome 11, Crin., p. 51.
Syn.
Anthocrinus, 1853, Miiller, Abliandl, Aka.
Berlin, p. 192 ; 1857.
Pictet Traite de Pal., iv, p. 312 ; 1862.
Dnjardin and Hupe, Hist.
Nat, Zooph.
Echin., p. 117 ; 1855.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d.
Petref., iv, p. 943.
Grotalocrinus was established by Austin in 1843 (Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., p. 198), for the reception of a single species, which was described by J. S. Miller, in 1821, as Gyathocrinus rugosus, from a calyx without the arms.
He had previously used the name Grotalocrinites rugosus (1842, Ann.
and Mag., vol.
X, p. 109), in his list of the class Pinnastella, and he referred it to the Marsiqnocrinoidea.
His original definition of the genus is as follows : " Dorsocentral plates, 5 ; first series of perisomic plates, 5 ; second series, 5.
On the latter are a series of wedge-shaped plates, which bear the rays ; the exact number of these plates is unascertained.
Column with a pentapetalous perforation."
" C. rugosus.
The plates surrounding the body agree with the generic characters.
Rays numerous, probably amounting to one hundred.
Column composed of thin joints, articulating into each other by radiating strife.
The columnar canal is pentapetalous.
The raj's are remarkabl}small m proportion to the size of the animal."
McCoy, in 1854 (Brit.
Pal.
Foss.,p.
54),redescribed the genus, but gave little additional information regarding it.
He mentions the presence of an interradial plate in the " second perisomic row," and saj'S that above, and alternating with the primary radials, are five large pentagonal secondary radials (scapulae), completing the cup, on each of which rests a series of small pentagonal plates, supporting for the width of each plate a large number (?
15 or 16) of very slender long ra3's.
According to McCoy, the genus "differs from Gyathocrinus in the vast number of its rays."
Hisinger (Leth.
Suec.
Supp., II, p. 6) described under the name Gyathocrinus pulcher a specimen without arms which afterwards proved to be of this genus.
Johannes Miiller was the first to call attention to the remarkable characters of this type exhibited in the brachial parts.
In 1853 (Abh.
Ak.
Wiss.
Berlin, p. 187, et seq.
), he described, under the head of " Crinoiden mit netzfdrmigen Handen," some specimens from Gothland in which the arm structure was well shown.
He says he could not identify Hi singer's species because his figure was too imperfect, although he thinks it may have belonged to the same group.
He also says that a specimen with arms and branches somewhat resembling the net-form had been obtained from Dudley, which he acknowledges to be Gyathocrinus rugosus Miller, but he expresses the opinion that the arms in the English form are not laterally connected and that it must have had more than five arms.
Regarding, therefore, the English form as described by Miller, Austin and McCoy as distinct from the Gothland form with reticulated arms, Miiller proposed for the latter the genus Anthocrinus, of which there was but a single species, A. Loveni.
Angelin (Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 26), with the whole of the excellent material from Gothland before him, finds that Anthocrinus Loveni is a synonj^m of Hisinger's Gyathocrinus pulcher, and that it belongs, along with G. rugosus, to Austin's genus Grotalocrinus, of which he also describes and figures a third species, G, superbus.
According to his definition of the genus, there are five arms, connected at their bases by branches and pinnules, and the pinnules, reticulatel^^ connected by narrow transverse joints, form a broad plicatecf net.
This reticulate structure, by which all the ramifications of each ray throughout their entire length are united into a net-work, seems to be the principal distinction between this genus and the closely allied Enallocrinus, in which the arm branches are transversely connected for a short distance near the base, but are free for the greater part of their length.
Angelin uses the word " pinnules " carelessl}^, and it is evident that in this case it means simpljthe ultimate divisions of the arms.
The character intended to be described by Angelin is much better stated by Zittel (Handb, d.
Pal., i, p. 356), and Johannes Miiller (1853, Berl.
Akad., pp.
187-192).
Generic Diagnosis.
The calyx is constructed very similar to that of the Cyathocrinidas.
Its form is subglobose ; its symmetry bilateral.
"With arms closed, the Crinoid resembles an elongated bud with folded leaves.
With outspread arms its figure is that of a flattened disk with five deep, narrow, lanceolate areas, which separate the rays.
Base dicyclic, TJnderbasals 5, small, pentangular.
Basals 5, large, hexagonal and octagonal.
Primary radials 2X5 ; the first wider than high, excavated in the middle of the distal face for the reception of a very small trigonal, bifurcating second radial, upon which the arms originate and bifurcate in much the same manner as in Marsupiocrinus.
The lateral margins of the first radials are very deeply incurved, extending between the arm bases until they meet the tegminal plates on the ventral side.
The arms divide into numerous branches, which are connected throughout their entire length, in such a way that the brachial apparatus of the whole animal is included in five broad, net-like leaves with inroUed edges, which when closed overlap each other.
These leaf-like arms are separated by very prominent, deep petaloid areas, whose margins are formed by the deeply incurved lateral faces of the peripheral arm joints, and the radials which are enormously thickened.
When spread out, these connected ra3'S would be free from contact with one another, and would resemble the outstretched leaves of a pentapetaloid flower, but folded together they overlap just as the closed leaves of a bud or flower.
The arm joints are disposed in regular dichotomizing longitudinal rows, and also in regularly concentric transverse rows, the alternate arrangement of joints of adjacent branches being absent here.
The arm branches are transversely compressed and flattened, very deep in proportion to their width, meeting throughout their entire length by their lateral surfaces.
Upon the dorsal side, the branches are laterally connected by points of attachment projecting from the middle of each point, or by direct contact of the sides of the joint, in such a way as to produce a reticulated structure composed of numerous small meshes.
The projection of the points of attachment from the middle of the joints gives them the appearance, when seen from the dorsal side, of a cross with short arms, and the network appears to have regular cross-shaped meshes.
At the lower part of the arms the joints are not cross-shaped, but meet directly by their sides, and the reticulate appearance is not so marked as higher up.
The whole structure of these leaf-like ra^^s is adapted to the greatest flexibility in all directions, and we think it probable that the meshes of the network were occupied by elastic connective substance of some kind.
The joints are flat on the dorsal side ; near the calyx they are extremely thick from the dorsal to the ventral side, the thickest being those which rest upon the radials, and they decrease rapidly toward the extremities of the rays.
The articular faces at the ends of the joints are provided with an axial canal.
Along the ventral side the joints are deeply excavated for the ambulacral furrow, which ramifies with the arm branches throughout their length.
The furrow is lined at each side by a row of small side pieces, three to foiir to each arm joint, which inclose in the middle two rows of covering plates, alternately arranged, of equal number with the side pieces.
The dorsal cup is roofed over and covered by an integument of comparatively heavy interradial plates of irregular arrangement, which extend out some distance over the rays and enclose the bases of the arms, but in no sense constitute or include covering plates of the arms, as Angelin's figure (PI.
xxv, fig.
15) clearly shows.
The plates at the margin of this integument meet and connect with the incurved edges of the radials and peripheral row of arm joints, which are proportionally much thicker than those of other parts of the ray.
The arms, with their covering plates, which are laterally connected without the interposition of interradlals or interaxillaries, emerge from underneath this integument, which must have been pliant to admit of the varieties of positions assumed.
Also the summit plates oral and proximals must have been located beneath this integument, or we could not understand their position and relation to the covering pieces which are represented by Angelin's figure on PI.
xvii, fig.
3 a.
Only occasionally the first interradial is visible dorsally; the dorsal cup, however, includes always a comparatively large subquadrangular anal plate, which rests between the radials and upon a hexagonal basal.
This supports a very long, tapering, lateral ventral tube, which rises between the arms.
It is composed of vertical rows of short, transverse pieces, and its walls are pierced by numerous pores.
The calyx plates appear to be united by syzygy, in part at least, and the lines of junction are marked by pits and clefts which penetrate deeply into the walls, as shown in fig.
4, PI.
viii, of Angelin, Column heavy, round, composed of thin joints, whose articular faces are traversed by small radiating canals, which form pores on the external surface.
Axial canal large, pentangular.
Geological Position, etc.
Upper Silurian of Gothland and England.
These species have been described : 1821.
Crotalocrinus rugosus Miller, Cyathocrinus rugosus Nat.
Hist.
Crin., p. Sy, pts.
1 A 4 B.
1808.
Parkinson, Turban or Shropshire Encrinite, Org.
Rem., Vol.
ii, p. 19.3, PI.
15, figs.
4, 5.
1837.
Hisinger, Cyathocrinus rugosus, Leth.
Suec, p.89, Tab.
xxv, fig.
3a; also Antekni, Heft iv, p. 217, Tab.
vii, fig.
.3.
1839.
Phillips, Cyathocrinus rugosus Phillips, apud Murchison's Sil.
Syst, p. 672, Tab.
18, fig.
1.
1843.
Austin, Ann.
and Mag.
6 Nat.
Hist., Ser.
1, Vol.
xi, p. 198.
1S4.3.
Morris, Cat.
Brit.
Foss., Ed.
1, p. 50.
1850.
D'Orbigny, Cyathocrinus rugosus, Prodr.
d.
Pal., Vol.
i, p. 46.
1854.
Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria, Ed.
2, p. 219, figs.
4-7, Tab.
13, fig.
3.
1855.
McCoy, Br.
Pal.
Foss., p. 55.
1873.
Salter, Cat.
Mus.
Cambr., p. 123.
1878.
Angelin, Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 26, Tab.
vii, fig.
4; Tab.
xvii, figs.
3, Sa-b, 8, 8a.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Pal., i, p. 357, fig.
244.
1885.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d.
Petref., iv, 942, Tab.
75, figs.
2, 3.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden, and Dudley, England.
1840.
C. pulcher Hisinger, Cyathocrinus pulcher, Leth.
Suec.
Supp.
ii, p. 6, Tab.
xxxix, figs.
5 a, h. 1878.
Angelin, Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 26, Tab.
vii, figs.
6-7, 7a-b; Tab.
viii, figs.
1-9 a; Tab.
xvii, figs.
1, 1 a-d ; Tab.
xxv, figs.
8-20.-1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Pal., i, p. 357, figs.
2, 4.
4 a-d.
Syn., Anthocrinus Loveni Job.
Miiller, 1853, Abh.
d. Berl.
Akad., p. 192, Tab.
viii, figs.
1-11.
Pictet, 1857, Tr.
d.
Pal., iv, p. 312, PI.
c, fig.
8.
Dujardin & Hupe, Hist.
Nat.
Zooph.
Echin., p. 117.
Quenstedt, 1885, Handb.
d.
Petref., iv, p. 943, Tab.
75, figs.
4, 5 ; Petref.
Deutschl., iv, p. 508, Tab.
108, fig.
13.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden.
1878.
C. superbus Angelin, Icon.
Crin.
Suec., p. 26, Tab.
xvii, figs.
2, 2 a-h. Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden.
ENALLOCRINUS d'Orbigny.
1850.
D'Orbigny, Prodr.
de Pal., Vol.
i, p. 46 ; Cours Elem., ii, p. 143.
1854.
Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria.
Ed.
2, p. 218.
1857.
Pictet, Traite de Pal., iv, p. 320.
1862.
Dujardin and Hupe, Hist.
Nat.
Zooph.
Echin., p. 134.
1878.
Angelin, Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 25.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Pal., i, p. 356.
Syn., Apiocrinites (Hisinger) in part ; Millcricrinus (d'Orbigny) in part.
In 1850 d'Orbigny established this genus to receive two species, which had been noticed and figured by Hisinger as Apiocrinus scriptus and A. punctatus.
Only the calj'x was then known, and the generic definition simply stated that this was composed of five depressed basals, five large " subradials " and five "brachials."
He placed the genus in the family Melocrinidae, while Pictet, and also Dujardin and Hupe, referred it to the Cyathocrinidae.
Angelin makes it a distinct family, and Zittel considers it as belonging to the Crotalocrinidffi.
It is clearly separated from the Inadunata by the fact that its radial divisions are connected either by direct union or by interradial plates between the secondary radials.
Although Angelin, in his definition of the genus (Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 25), states " interradialia nulla," his figures demonstrate their undoubted presence both on the dorsal and ventral side (PI.
xv, figs, la, 3a; PI.
xxv, figs.
4, 4a).
It appears from these illustrations that in some cases the corresponding radials of adjacent rays meet again above the interradials, just as in some species of Ichthyocrinus and Batocrinus.
The genus differs from GrotalociHnus^ its nearest ally, in the absence of the reticulate arm structure, although there is a lateral connection between the arm branches for some distance above their bases ; also in the alternate arrangement of adjacent rows of arm joints.
The construction of the ventral covering is apparently the same in both forms.
There is, however, a difference in the mode of union of the calyx plates, the lines of junction in Enallocrinus, showing strong indications of an articulation, as we judge from Angelin's figs.
1, 4, and 4 a, of PL xxv.
Angelin united the two types of Hisinger under his first species U. scriptiis^ and described one new species.
Generic Diagnosis.
The calyx differs but little from that of Grotalocrinus, and when the arms are spread this produces a similar discoid figure, and lanceolate areas similar to those of that genus.
The calyx is depressed, broadly expanding, composed of thick plates with deeply beveled sutures, indicating a union by articulation.
Base dicyclic ; symmetry bilateral ; underbasals 5, depressed, linear; basals 5, large, hexagonal, angular above, except on the anal side ; radials 2X5, the first one wide, with its distal face occupied by a deep lunate excavation, which is filled by the second radial and the two first arm joints.
Lateral faces of first radials deeply incurved between the arm bases, and meeting tegminal plates on the ventral side.
Second radial trigonal or pentagonal, and on its superior sloping margins the arms bifurcate as in Marsupiocrinus.
The first arm-joint small, linear, sometimes coalesced with the second ; the second small, axillary ; arms broad, thick, composed of short uniserial joints, dichotomizing frequently.
The branches are laterally connected near their bases, but throughout the greater portion of their length are free.
Arm joints alternating with those of adjacent rows.
As in Grotalocrinus, the outer sides of the peripheral rows of the rays are the thickest, and the deep inward curvature of their exterior lateral faces leaves similar large petaloid or lanceolate areas.
The exterior ventral margins of the incurved radials of the first and higher orders, and some of the lower arm joints, connect with the plates of the ventral covering, which is of a similar nature as that of Grotalocrinus.
Ambulacral furrow deep, dichotomizing with the arm branches, bordered by two rows of small alternating side pieces, and covered along the median line by two rows of saumpliittchen.
Anal plate one, in line with first radials.
Of the numerous interradials only one or two are exposed dorsally, and these are succeeded veutrally by an indefinite number of other vault plates.
Ventral tube lateral, its construction unknown.
Column strong, round, with short joints; axial canal large, round or obtusely pentangular.
Geological rosition, etc.
Upper Silurian ; known only from Gothland, Sweden.
Two species have been recognized : 3828.
Enallocrinus scriptus Ilisinger (Cyathocrinites?
), Anteckn iv, ji.
217: Tab.
V, fig.
9; Tab.
vii, fig.
1.
1831.
(Apiocrinites (?)
scriptus), Anteckn v, p. 123, Esquisse d. tab.
petrif.
d. Swede, p. 23.
1837.
Leth.
Suec, p. 89, Tab.
XXV, figs.
1 and 2.
D'Orbigny, 1840 (Millericrinus scriptus), Hist.
Nat.
Crin., p. 94, PI.
xvi, fig.
29.
1850.
Prodr.
d. Pal.
i, p. 46.
Angelin, 1878, Icon.
Crin.
Suec,, p. 25, Tab.
vii, figs.
1-3 a; Tab.
ix, figs.
18 and 19; Tab.
xxv, figs.
1-7; Tab.
xxvii, figs.
17-20 a.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden.
Spi.
Enallocrinus punctatus Hisinger, Leth.
Suec, p. 89.
Millei'icrinus punctatus d'Orbigny, Hist.
Nat.
Crin., p. 94, Pi.
xvi, fig.
30.
Enallocrinus punctatus Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria, Ed.
2, p. 218.
Anthocrinus scriptus and A. punctatus, Quenstedt, Handb.
d. Petref.
iv, p. 944, Tab.
75, tigs.
6, 7.
1878.
E. assulosus Angelin, Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 26, Tab.
xv, figs.
1-4.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden.
CLEIOCRINUS Billings.
1856.
Geol.
Surv.
Canada, p. 276.
1859.
Ibid, Decade IV, p. 52.
1879.
"Wachsm.
and Spr., Rev.
i, p. 35.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Pal., i.
357.
Cleiocrinus in its general habitus has close aflfinities with the Ichthyocrinidse and Crotalocrinidse^ and this has induced us to place it provisionally with the Articulata, without assigning it to any special family, although it diff'ers in two important points.
Cleiocrinus^ contrary to all other Articulata, has an interradial in lateral contact with the first radials, forming a ring Avith them, and the plates of the calyx apparently were not articulated in a strict sense.
Zittel has referred the genus to the Grotalocrinidse^ while we placed it in Part I with the Ichthyocrinidse.
If certain parts were better known, we should make it the type of a new family, but at present, having no positive knowledge of the basal regions, nor even of the arms, we are not in a position to give a satisfactory definition of the group.
In order to obtain some additional information, we applied to our friend, Walter R. Billings, who, with his usual kindness, has furnished us the diagrammatic sketch of the type-specimen, which is reproduced on Plate 9, fig.
5.
The suture lines of all plates above the primary radials, vertically and horizontally, are provided with a kind of minute pores ; which, it seems to us, indicates a union by syzygy, and not by articulation, and that the arm structure was altogether different from that of the other Articulata.
Mr. Billings informs us that " the plates are all joined together, but where the strain in crushing has acted upon the specimen, the cracks or gaping sutures are preferably on the lines of the grand divisions, i. e., the lines dividing the arms from one another and from the anal series."
This parting of the plates, however, does not indicate necessarily a leaf-like structure of the rays, as in the case of Grotalocrinus^ for all plates united by syzygy, as a rule, come easily apart.
Mr. Billings informs us that tlie ridges of the column are interradial in position, which confirms the supposition made by us (Part I, p. 36 \ that Gleiocrinus possesses underbasals, and that the so-called basals of E. Billings are interradials.
He also states that the lowest visible circlet of plates " apparently overlaps the column, instead of passing under it," which shows that the base must have been concave, with ample space for the basals and underbasals to lie concealed from view.
We have indicated the basals and underbasals in the diagram by dotted lines.
It will be useful to give an amended General Diagnosis.
General form obconical ; with bilateral symmetr3^ Base dicyclic.
Underbasals probably 3, minute or rudimentary.
Basals probably 5, small and hidden by the column.
Primary radials 3X5, increasing in width upwards, supporting several superior orders of radials, dichotomizing frequently and uniformly, and interlocking with those of adjoining rows.
The rays and their divisions are laterally connected, without the intervention of interradial plates, except at the anal side and along the first primary radials.
The first radials are much smaller than the succeeding ones, and separated from one another by a comparatively large pentangular interradial.
The interradial of the posterior side is quadrangular, and supports a longitudinal row of anal plates, which extend to the full length of the calyx, and in their form closely resemble the radials.
Arms apparently recumbent.
Column more or less obtusely pentagonal ; axial canal large.
Geological Position, etc.
Lower Silurian, Canada.
No additional species have been described.
SuBORDEK INADUNATA.
a.
Branch, Larviforviia.
The Larviformia comprise the families : Haplocrinidse , Symhathocrinidse, Gupressocrinidee and Gasterocomidse.
The Haplocrinidse are the simplest brachiate Crinoids and may be regarded as representing the larva, not only of the Inadunata but of the Palaeocrinoidea generally.
Even the most complicated Platycrinoid or Actinocrinoid must have passed in its early life a stage in which radials and interradials consisted of but a single ring of plates when we think the interradials covered the entire ventral surface.
This stage is probably represented by the young Allagecrinus.
In Haplocrinus the conditions are essentially the same, but here the interradials already began partly to open out, and the oral plate made its appearance upon the surface.
It is very possible that also the growing Allagecrinus before reaching maturit}' attained this condition, or perhaps even the condition of Symbathocrinus, hut in default of any such evidence, we refer the genus for the present to the Haplocrinid?e.
The Haplocrinidse are very closely allied to the Sj'mbathocrinidse, and it is a question with us, whether it would not be better to unite them under one family.
Both are built essentially on the same plan, but the S3'mbathocrinidie at least their typical genus had proximals, and, as a rule, a somewhat higher developed mode of articulation.
The articular facet in the Symbathocrinidae forms a straight horizontal line, it is extended into a large muscle-plate, and this covers the greater part of the ventral cavity, leaving only a small median space, which is covered either by the interradials and an oral plate as probably in Fisocrinus, or by interradials and a full set of summit plates as in the case of Symbathocrinus.
In the Haplocrinidse the interradials ^ are comparatively large, and rest upon the upper face of the main part of the radials ; in Synibathocrinus small, placed against the distal ends of their limbs, and separated by radial dome plates.
In the Haplocrinidoe the anal opening penetrates one of the interradials, and also probably in Pisocrinus, Storthingocrinus and Stylocrinus ; in Symbathocrinus and Fhimocrinus it is placed along the suture of two adjacent muscle-plates.
This position of the anal opening between the muscle-plates is a peculiarity found exclusively among the Larviformia ; we meet with it again in Cupressocrinidse, and in a somewhat different form among Gasterocomidse.
The Cupressocrinidse and Gasterocomidae are dicyclic Crinoids, containing within their basal ring an undivided plate in form of a disk.
The disk is pierced by sevei'al large openings, a central one which represents the axial canal, and by four (exceptionally three or five) peripheral ones, which are continued to the whole length of the column.
The other two families have only a central opening, which is small.
Dr. P. H. Carpenter, whom we consulted as to the functions of these openings, thinks it " very probable that the periplieral ones represent downward extensions of the body cavity in which water circulated ; while there was an exhalant or outgoing current through the interradial (so-called anal) opening with which the intestine was related, so that faecal matter could be carried away from the creature, very much as it is by the circulation through the dorsal and ventral siphons of a Solen or The specimens for which Hall (18G2, 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist.)
proposed the name Ancyrocrinus are evidently crinoidal stems with four peripheral canals, and as such may belong to Myrthillocrinus or some other genus of this family.
There are at the lower end four lateral appendages, which in our ^ If the five ventral plates in Haplocrinus and the allied Allagecrinus were orals, as Dr. P. H. Carpenter suggests, it would follow that these two genera exceptionally had no interradials, and vary on this point from all other Palseocrinoidea.
To this we had reference on p. 72, but in place of stating, as we intended, "Carpenter denies the interradials to he present always in Palseocrinoids," we made the erroneous statement: "C. denies that interradials are present as a rule in Palaeozoic Crinoids."
The correction was made throughout our own edition, but we discovered the error too late to rectify it in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy.
opinion are a kind of radicular cirrlii.
In a specimen from tlie Canada Survey Museum of Ottawa we found tlie lower face of the stem covered by a calcareous deposit closing the canals.
This deposit appears to have been of a similar nature to that which closes the centro-dorsal of Comatula and the nodal stem joints of the Pentacrini, which, according to Wyville Thomson and Carpenter (Chall.
Rep., pp.
18, 19), occasionally break their stems at a syz^'gy so as to become free.
In the case of Ancyrocrinus, however, the stem may have become detached and the free state been the rule in the adult, as those stems with their anchor attached are found in great abundance.
The bottom plate in the calyx of the Gupressocrinidse and Gasterocomidas^ which we take to be a coalesced underbasal disk, has been described heretofore as representing the upper joint of the column, because the plate, at least in the adult, is undivided.
It is, however, well known that a fusion of one or more plates takes place not only among basals, but also among unclerbasals ; while, on the other hand, the columnar joints, which in most of the Grinoidea are undivided, sometimes are triand quinquepartite.
The plate of Gupressocrinus unquestionably has the position of the united underbasals ; it forms, like them, a part of the calyx, as much so as the basals of Dolatocrinus and Stereocrinus, in which, as a general rule, the sutures are totally obliterated, and in which the basal disk resembles most remarkably the underbasal disk in this family.
It is to be regretted that neither the central canal nor the angles of the column in Gupressocrinus give any light on this question, the former being circular, the column quadrangular ; but it seems to us that the plate, if really representing a stem-joint, should be quadrangular, in accordance with the other stem-joints in this genus, and not pentangular, as we always find it.
The muscle-plates of the Gupressoc7nnidee have a more horizontal position than in the Symbathocrinidse^ and those of different rays are laterally anchylosed, so as to form an annular plate with a central opening.
There is, besides, an interradial lateral opening, and five pairs of radial ones.
The central space was probably covered by interradial and summit plates, but these occupied a comparatively small space of the ventral surface, the larger portion being covered by the muscle-plates.
The interradial opening represents the anus, the outer radial ones the axial canals, tlie inner and larger ones are probably ambulacral openings.
The arms of the Gasterocomidse have similar axial canals as those of the Gupressocrinidse^ but these face outward, while the others are directed upward.
This is readily explained b}' the condition of their articular facets, which are lateral, horseshoeshaped, and do not extend over the whole width of the plates.
The articular facets of the radials throughout this family, instead of bending over to the ventral side, stand erect as in Platycrinus, and their outer ends support the interradials in a similar manner as in that genus.
In accordance with this structure, it is evident that, if the anal opening was to occupy a position corresponding to that of Symbathocrinus and Cupressocrinus, it had to be located, as it is throughout this group, dorsally between the upper portions of the radials, which resemble structurally, if not quite functionally, the extensions of the muscleplates in the other groups.
The radials of the Gasterocomidse have limb-like extensions, they are simply notched for the ambulacral canal, and their axial opening penetrates the median portions of the plates.
The Larviforniia agree with the Blastoids as to certain conditions of their arm structure (see our notes on Gupressocrinus) , and probably possessed hydrospires and hydrospire pores to connect with the ambulacra ; Gupressocrinus even had similar pinnules.
The arms are simple throughout, but some of the radials, exceptionally, support two arms.
The arms were united with the radials by strong muscles; but the arm-plates among each other, so far as known, were suturally connected and moved in a body.
We give the following definitions of the four families : A. Haplocrinid^.
Dorsal cup small, composed of basals and radials ; covered ventrally by five large single interradial plates, which form a pyramid.
These plates are supported upon the outer ends of two adjoining radials, and are united with one another, leaving only a small ambulacral opening.
There is no anal plate; the anal aperture, so far as known, penetrates the upper part of one of the interradials.
Column with small central canal.
B. Symbathocrinid^.
Dorsal cup small ; composed of basals and radials only.
The latter are provided with large muscleplates, which are connected by suture, except at their inner ends, where they leave generally a slit-shaped opening.
The muscle-plates extend over the greater part of the ventral surface, and constitute a more or less elevated pyramid, with an open space in the centre.
The central space is closed by cornparativel}' small interradials and the summit plates ; the latter, as a rule, are more extensively developed than in the Haplocrinidse.
The arms are extremely long, closely folded together.
They are composed of quadrangular joints, suturally connected, and moved upon the radials by means of strong muscles.
The anal opening, where it has been observed, is intermediate between two muscle-plates.
Column round, with a small central canal.
(7.
CuPRESsocRiNiD^.
Calyx large.
Base dicyclic.
Theunderbasals are anchylosed, and form a solid disk, which is succeeded by five basals.
The radials are provided with large muscle-plates, which are laterally anchylosed, and form a continuous plate covering a large portion of the bod}^ It stands on a level with the upper faces of theradials, and is pierced by the anus and the ambulacral openings.
The arms are simple, closely folded together, and composed of massive, wide, quadrangular pieces, which, being connected by suture, moved in a body upon the radials.
Column strong, containing a large central canal surrounded by peripheral ones.
D. Gasterocomid.e.
Base dicyclic ; basals and underbasals as in the Cupressocrinidte.
Radials large; their articular facet lateral, horseshoe-shaped, covering almost the whole outer face of the plates.
They are provided with large axial openings, which occupy the median portions of the facets, and are notched at their upper end to pass in the ambulacral canal.
The anal opening is dorsal, placed between two radials, and either succeeds the anal plate, or this succeeds the opening.
The interradial plates are small occupying the equatorial zone.
The oral plate is very large, excentric, and surrounded by four large proximals, its posterior side resting against the radials.
Arms recumbent or widely divergent.
Family XIII.
HAPLOCRINIDtE.
Under this family we place only the two genera Haplocrinus and Allagecrinus.
Roemer referred to it Haplocrinus and Goccocrinus, in which he was followed by Zittel and S. A. Miller.
Schultze, like us, referred Goccocrinus to the Platycrinidse, but added Triacrinus, which Zittel, Angeliii and Miller made the type of a distinct family.
We admit there are close affinities between Haplocrinus, Triacrinus and Pisocrinus, but we believe the last .two are closer allied to Symbathocrinus (see our notes on the SymbathocrinidiB).
Pictet refers to the Haplocrinidae : Haplocrinus, Goccocrinus^ Myrtillocrinus^ Ceraviocrinus, Ej)a,ctocrinus and G aster ocoma ; Dujardin and Hupd: Haplocrinus, Goccocrinus, Myrtillocrinus and Stephanocrinus.
D'Orbigny arranged his " Aplocrinidse " between the Pentremitidse and Cupressocrinidae.
In Troost's catalogue of 1850 we find the following names: Haplocrinus granulatus^ H. hemisphericus, H. maximus and H. ouaZis, which have not been defined, and are species of Pisocrinus and Triacrinus.
Haplocrinus anmilaris and H. monile were defined by Eichwald from pieces of the column.
HAPLOCRINUS Steininger.
(PI.
5, figs.
1, 2.)
1834.
Steininger, Bull.
Soc.
geol.
de France (Ser.
i), vol.
viii, p. 231.
1844.
F. Roemer, Rhein.
Uebergangsgebirge, p. 63.
1849.
Steininger, Versteinerungen der Eifel, p. 20.
1853.
Steininger, Geognostische Beschr.
d. Eifel, p. 36.
1852.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d. Petrefactenkunde, p. 624.
1855.
J. Mtiller, Verb, naturh.
Verein, Jahrg.
xii, p. 21.
1855.
F. Roemer, Lethaea Geogn.
1855 (Ausg.
3), p. 260.
1857.
Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 308.
1862.
Dujardin & Ilupe, Hist, natur.
des Zoophytes Ecliin., p. 105.
1862.
Hall, 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist, p. 143.
1866.
Scbultze, Echin.
Eifel Kalk., p. 103.
1868.
De Koninck, Bull.
d. I'Acad.
Roy.
d. Belg.
(Ser.
2), Tome iii (Extr.
p. 63).
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Palseont., i, p. 347.
1882.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d. Petrefactenkunde (Ausg.
3), p. 964.
1885.
P. H. Carpenter, Chall.
Rep. Crinoidea, p. 158, etc.
Syn.
Eugeniacrinites Goldfuss (in part), 1826, Petref.
Germ, i, p. 213.
Syn.
Aplocrinus d'Orbigny, Prodr.
i, p. 102.
Syn.
(?)
DimorpJiocrinus d'Orbigny (Zittel).
The first species of this genus was described by Goldfuss under Eugeniacrinites mespiliformis.
Goldfuss did not know the construction of the plates, nor did Steininger who described the same species under Haplocrinus spaeroideus.
F. Roemer, in 1844, gave a good description of the plates, but his way of interpreting them was rather peculiar.
According to his diagnosis, the calj'x of Haplocrinus is composed of five basals.
These, as he states, alternate with five " para-basals," of which three are separated from the basals by intervening plates (Costalglieder).
H& states further that, placed upon the sutures of two adjoining " para-basals," there are five simple arms, which in their closed condition form a pentamerous " Scheitelpjn-amide."
If it were true that the latter plates, which at their lateral union form conspicuous grooves, were arras, this Crinoid would have no radials, and the basals would be radially disposed, contrarj^ to the fundamental rules of the class.
The ventral pyramid had been erroneously described by Goldfuss as composed of five series of eight to ten pieces longitudinally arranged, and it was this, likely, which misled Roemer.
The fact, however, is that the ventral surface is covered by five single trigonal pieces, arranged alternately with the upper ring of plates in the dorsal cup, and that the latter plates, as Goldfuss correctly stated, are provided with an articular facet upon which the arms moved.
This was confirmed by Miiller's observation, who, in 1855, discovered in one of his specimens, resting upon the facet, a small brachial.
Allman was the first writer who undertook to homologize the five ventral plates of Haplocrinus, Goccocrinus and Stephanocrinus with the orals of recent Crinoids.
It seems, however, that he was not aware of Miiller's discover}^ of arm joints, for he supposed that all those genera possessed recumbent ambulacra.
A similar view was held by d'Orbigny, Schultze calls the ventral plates " interradiale Pyramidenstiicke."
Zittel describes the " Kelchdecke " to be composed of " fiinf grossen, im Centrum zusammenstossenden, dreieckigen Oral-platten, welche eine Pyramide bilden, und zwischen sich fiinf breite, gerade, durch die abgeschragten Seitenflachen begrenzte,nach unten geschlossene, nach oben oflfene Ambulacralfurchen bilden."
There is nothing to confirm this view, and, in fact, we do not know how this could have been possible.
It is difficult to see what office the so-called " open ambulacral groove " could have had, especially if Haplocrinus possessed arms, as Prof. Zittel admits.
The grooves, evidently, are mere compartments for the reception of the arms, and served for their protection.
Carpenter agrees with Zittel that the ventral plates are orals, but opposes his open ambulacra.
He regards the o-enus to be " permanently in the condition of a Pentacrinoid larva with a closed tentacular vestibule."
We fully agree with liim that Haplocrinus is a persistent larval form, but do not understand how the five large plates, which occupy almost the entire ventral surface, and as much as one-half of the whole test, possibly can represent the orals in a Paloeocrinoid, as all other genera of this group in which the ventral covering has been observed, have largely developed interradials, and these, whether composed of one or a series of plates, extend up invariably to a comparatively small area surrounding the peristome.
We, therefore, regard the small central piece as the homologue of the orals, and not the five large plates which we take to be interradials.
The basals of Haplocrinus were described by Dujardin and Hupe to be composed of three pieces in place of five.
The three small plates alternating with the basals, the " Costalglieder " of Roemer, which are radial in position and support three of the arm-bearing plates, were called b^' Schultze " parabasalia," by De Koninck " subradials," while Miiller, Pictet and Zittel called them "first radial plates."
The term parabasals was used by Schultze for basals in dicyclic Crinoids, and, therefore, cannot be applied to radial plates, neither can the name " subradials," as also this term has been used in the same sense.
We regard the three plates as representing mere sections of the radials, which, jointly with the arm-bearing part above, are equivalent to one of the undivided radials of the other two rays.
Generic Diagnosis Of very small size.
Form of calyx subglobose, sometimes biturbinate, extending almost over the whole A^entral surface.
The summit pieces are represented only by a small oral plate.
Basals five, small, pentagonal, forming a shallow cup with slightly acute angles.
Radials very irregular, two of them consisting of single pieces, the other three of two plates each, connected by suture.
The two single plates, which agree in size but not in form with the compound ones, belong to the anterior ray and left postero-lateral one ; they are heptagonal and almost of the same form and size.
The three compound ones difl"er from one another ; two of the lower segments are pentagonal, that of the right anterior ray hexagonal, its left lateral face being angular.
The upper segments are quadrangular, except the one of the right postero-lateral ray, of which the lower corner is slightly truncated.
The articular faces form a straight line, and occupy about one-third the width of the radials.
They enter deeply the upper surface of the plates, and form at each side of them a rather conspicuous upright projection, which is truncated at the upper face.
These projections are laterally connected in pairs, and eacli pair supports a large interradial plate, which almost covers the whole ventral surface.
The five interradials join with one another; they are subtrigonal, their angles truncated ; the upper angle so as to admit a small oral plate, the other two to make space for the articular facet.
The sides of the plates along their suture line are beveled, thereby producing along the suture line, in a radial direction, a deep groove, which, evidently, was occupied by the arms in their closed condition.
Beneath these grooves there is an opening in the test, at which the ambulacra enter the cal3'x.
The openings contain along their median line the ambulacral passage, which is oval in form.
At each side of it there is apparently another opening, which Schultze described as " kleine grubenartige Vertiefungen," whose functions we cannot understand unless they are in connection with the respiratory apparatus.
There is no anal plate ; the anal opening is small, and penetrates the upper part of the interradials close to the oral plate.
The arms are imperfectly known, but they probably were long, simple, and composed of long joints, like those of the Larviformia generally.
The articulation upon the radials was by muscles, the axial canals being plainly visible.
Column cylindrical.
Geological Position^ etc.Haplocrinus seems to have had a wide vertical range, three species being from the Devonian, the fourth one, according to De Koninck, from the Carboniferous (?).
The following species have been described : 1862.
Haplocrinus clio Hall, 15th Rep, N. York State Cab.
Nat.
Ilust., p.
14:'., PI.
1, figs.
5-9.
-Maroellus Shale.
Onondago Co., N. Y.
1868.
H. granatum De Koninck, Bull.
d. I'Acad.
Roy.
de Belg.
(Ser.
2), Tome iii, No.
4, PI.
5, figs.
6-10.
(?)
Mountain limcst.
Eolland, Yorksh., England.
1826.
H. mespiliformis (Goldfuss), Eugeniacrinites mespiliformis, Petref.
Germ., i, p. 2\?>, PI.
64, fig.
6.
Haplocrinus spaeroideus, 1834, Steininger, Bull.
Soc.
Geol.
de Prance, Tome viii, p. 2:i2.
Haplocrinus mespiliformis F. Roemer, 1844, Rhein.
Uebergangsgeb., p. 16; also Leth.
Geogn., 1855 (Ausg.
.3), p. 26L Pictet, 1857, Traite de Pal6ont., iv, PI.
c, fig.
2.
Bronn, 1860, Klassen d. Thierreichs (Actinozoa), PI.
28, fig.
4 A-C Dujardin and Ilupe, 1862, Hist.
Nat.
des Zoophytes Echinod., p. 105, PI.
5, fig.
9.
Schultze, 1866, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 104, PL 12, figs.
10, 11.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1844.
H. stellaris Roemer, Rhein.
Uebergangsgeb., p.
6;'., PI.
?>, fig.
5 ; also Sandberger, Jahrbuch,.1845, p. 777.
Roemer, 1855, Lethaea Geogn.
(Ausg.
3), p. 261.
Devonian.
Nassau, Germany.
ALLAGECRINUS Ether.
& Carp.
1881.
Ann.
and ]\rag.
Nat.
Hist.
(April), pp.
281-298.
1884.
De Loriol, Paleont.
Francaise (Serie i), Tome xi, p. 46.
Allagecrinus was made by Etheridge and Carpenter the type of a distinct family, and this was accepted by De Loriol.
In our opinion it is either a Haploerinoid or no Palaeocrinoid at all.
If the five ventral plates, as E. and C. assert, are orals, which in the younger specimens extended to the radials, closing in the tentacular vestibule, but in their subsequent stages were "relatively carried inwards, away from the radials, and separated from them by perisome," we should regard Allagecrinus a Neocrinoid.
If, however, it is a Palaeocrinoid, we think the five ventral plates are interradials, which in the young Crinoid were closed, and gradually opened out so as to expose the summit plates.
In this case, Allagecrinus was in its earlier life morphologically in a similar condition as Haplocrinus^ but may have attained in the adult a somewhat higher degree of development.
Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter state on p. 284 of their paper on Allagecrinus^ that the mouth in the larger specimens could not have been " roofed over or closed by a dome or vault of any kind," for " if such a structure had existed within the circle of radial plates, it would assuredly have been preserved."
To this we reply, that the summit structure of Symbathocrinus which is comparatively solid was discovered after hundreds of the most perfect specimens had been examined, and until then it was regarded as membranous ; the same was the case in Cyathocrinus.
Allagecrinus in its more advanced stages, may have attained the conditions of Haplocrinus or Symbathocrinus, or even of Cyathocrinus^ and passed perhaps through all those phases successively; but there is not the least evidence that the Scheitelplatten in any Palfeocrinoid were carried inward by perisome as in the Neocrinoidea.
The same writers remark on p. 286, that " in none of the smaller specimens is there Siny trace of an anal opening, either directly piercing an oral plate, or at the margin of the dome between the orals and radials."
And they state further, that " the central end of one or more of the former may be marked by tubercles, but we cannot suggest any explanation of these."
If E. and C. had regarded these tubercles as mere ornamentations, they certainly would have stated so.
We judge from their figs.
5 and Y 6, on PI.
xvi, that one of the tubercles was larger than the others.
The larger one may have been pierced by the anal opening, for it occupies relatively the same position as the anal opening in Haplocrinus.
We cannot agree with Etheridge and Carpenter that Poteriocrinus isacobus Austin, which we referred (Rev.
I, p. 113) to Scaphiocrinus, is an Allagecrinus.
The little cup, which Austin figured on PI.
8, fig.
4, of his Monograph, is evidently a ring of underbasals, with a few stem-joints attached to it, and not basals.
To judge from the figures, there is in our mind scarcel}'' a doubt that, in some way or another, the caly:s. in the type-specimen became detached, that the basals and radials were lost, and the underbasals temporarily fastened to the arms for safe-keeping.
Similar detached cups are frequently found in the Burlington limestone, and we doubt if there will ever be found a species of Allagecrinus with branching arms.
Generic Diagnosis.
Crinoid minute.
Calyx p^'riform or cylindro-conical.
The dorsal cup composed of two rings of five plates each ; the ventral surface, so far as known, of five single pieces.
There are no anal plates, neither dorsally nor ventrall3^ Basals five ; suture-lines rarely visible.
Radials five, elongate, variable in form and size ; they are either axillaries and support two simple arms, or truncate above and bear a single arm, but neither one of them is branching ; when axillaries, they are considerably wider.
The articular facets for the attachment of the arms are large and distinct, and nearly horizontal in position, so as to give a projecting lip-like appearance to the upper and outer edges of the radials.
There is a transverse articular ridge around the opening of the central canal, which is large.
The arms are strong, cylindrical, and probably without pinnules.
The first arm-joint is much shorter than the others, cuboidal, with a nearly circular distal face, the succeeding ones elongate, three and four times as wide as high.
The construction of the ventral surface is only known in the younger specimens, in which it consists of five interradial plates, which form a closed pyramid, the relative size of which is greater the smaller the specimen.
The plates are trigonal, but the lower angles slightl}^ truncate to form the arm-opening.
In the smaller specimens, the plates are so closely united, that there is no trace of sutures between them ; but the sutures gradually become more marked, and turn in the larger ones into rather distinct grooves.
No central plate has been observed as in Haplocrinus, and nothing is known of the ventral surface in any of the larger specimens.
Column short, of vermiform appearance ; composed of small, low, rounded joints, with a circular central canal.
Geological Position, etc.
Restricted, so far as known, to the top of the Carboniferous limestone of Scotland and America.
1881.
Allagecrinus Austin!
Ether, and Carp.
Type of the genus.
Ann.
and Mag., vol.
vii, p. 289, Pts.
15 and 16.
Upper Carboniferous limestone of Scotland.
1882.
A. Carpenteri Wachsm., Bull.
I, State Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 40; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
vii, p. 341, PI.
29, fig.
14.
Kaskaskia group.
Monroe Co., 111.
Family XIV.-SYMBATHOCRINID^, W. and Sp.
We refer to this family the genera : Symbathocrinus^ Phimocrinus, Stylocriniis, Stortingocrinus, Pisocrinus, Triacrinus and Lageniocrinus.
Zittel made of these genera two families ; he placed Symbathocrinus, Phimocrinus and Lageniocrinus, to which he added Cupressocrinus, under the ^^ Cupressocrinidae,^^ and Pisocrinus, Triacrinus, with Catillocrinus, under the "Pisocrinidae.^'' These groups were adopted by De Loriol and S. A. Miller.
We willingl}'admit that Cupressocrinus agrees with Symbathocrinus and Phimocrinus very closely in the mode of articulation and in the arm structure ; but they differ essentially in other points.
Cupressocrinus has a large dorsal cup, basals and underbasals, and three or four large peripheral canals, which follow the column.
Nothing of this has been found either in Symbathocrinus or Phimocrinus, which both have a very small dorsal cup, and a small central opening along the column.
After separating Cupressocrinus, and making Symbathocrinus the type of the group, it is extremely difficult to establish family distinctions between Symbathocrinus and Zittel's Pisocrinidae.
Not even the irregularity in the construction of the calyx will hold good, as also in Symbathocrinus the symmetry is disturbed by the presence of an anal plate.
Gatillocrinus, which also had been identified with these groups, has a ventral sac, and has been referred by us to the Fistulata.
7 SYMBATHOCRINUS Phillips.
(PI.
4, figs.
8 to 11, and PI.
5, figs.
12 to 14.)
183G.
Phillips, Geol.
Yorksh., Pt.
ii, p. 20G.
1843.
Austin (in part), Monogr, Rec.
and Foss.
Crin., p. 93.
1850.
D'Orbigny, Prodrome de Paleont., i, p. 156.
1853.
Owen and Shumard, Geol.
Surv.
la., Wise, and Minns., p. 597.
1854.
McCoy, Syn.
Brit.
Palaeoz.
Toss.
1858.
Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, Vol.
i, Pt.
ii, p. 559.
1868, Meek and Worthen, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 324.
1873.
Meek and Worthen, Geol.
Rep. 111., Vol.
v, pp.
324 and 437.
1875.
Meek and Worthen, Geol.
Rep. 111., Vol.
vi, p. 514.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 349.
1880.
Wetherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(Extr., p. 7).
Not SymbatJiocrinus Roemer 1855, Mi'iUer 1855, Schultze 1866 = Stylocrinus Sandberger.
The genus Symbathocrinus, as it is now recognized, contains two distinct generic types.
The one which occurs in the Carboniferous and upper Devonian has a large anal plate, and this supports a long tube which extends to nearly the whole length of the arms.
The other form, which is restricted to the lower Devonian, has no anal plate, nor does it show an anal opening.
The Carboniferous form will be recognized by us as Symbathocrinus, the other as Stylocrinus.
When Phillips proposed the name Sijmbathocrinus he gave no description, he only stated that the " pelvis " was " anchylosed."
The two Austins described Phillips' species, but they also took the base to be undivided, and nothing was said by them about an anal plate, although they indicated it in one of their figures (Monograph, PI.
12, fig.
4 6).
Their fig.
4 a is a totally different thing, and represents either a Graphiocrinus or Scytalocrinus.
Owen and Shumard discovered the base of Symbathocrinus to be tripartite, and Prof. Hall was the first to desci'ibe the anal plate.
The muscle-plate was taken by Zittel, and formerly by us, for a so-called consolidating apparatus, like the similar structure in Cupressocrinus, and homologous with the oral plates.
It was also the general belief that the central space was not closed, and represented the mouth.
Symbathocrinus granulatus and S. Tennessece Troost are catalogue names, S. tabulatus (Goldfass) a Scytalocrinus, and S. tennesseensis E-oemer a Pisocrinus.
Qeneric Diagnosis.
Calyx small.
Dorsal cup obconical or basin-shaped.
Basals three, forming a shallow cup, which is slightly excavated for the reception of the column.
They are composed of two larger equal pieces which are pentangular, and a smaller quadrangular one ; the latter placed to the left of the anterior interradius as in Platycrinus.
Radials nearly equal, subquadrangular ; the basi-radial suture sligbtl}^ angular ; width much wider above than below.
Their upper side forms a straight, horizontal line, except at the right postero-lateral radial, of which the left upper end is sloped off for the reception of an anal piece.
The anal plate rests completely upon this one radial, occupying about one-fourth of its upper width.
The radials are provided with large articular facets, which, extending inwards and upwards, form jointly at the ventral side of the calyx a sharply angular pyramid with re-entering angles.
The upper end of this pyramid is truncated, and contains a good-sized opening in the centre, which in perfect specimens is completely covered by the interradial and summit plates.
The lateral margins of the facets meet at their lower ends, except at the azygous side, where they are separated by the anal plate ; along their upper ends, however, they stand apart, and form rather conspicuous clefts.
Each facet is divided vertically by a narrow sinus, ^ and the two halves of the plates or the limbs, as they might be called, at their upper end form an ambulacral opening.
The interradials are unusually small, wider than high ; those at the four regular sides resting against the upper face of two limbs of adjoining radials.
The number of interradials at the azygous side cannot be ascertained in our specimens, as the parts connecting the anal plate with the ventral surface of the calyx were not preserved.
The anal plate stands in line with the first brachial, it has the same height but not its width, and is succeeded by a slender tube which follows the whole length of the arms.
Hall has figured a second anal plate, triangular in form ; this, however, constitutes the lower portion of the first plate of the tube, which always takes a sharp inward turn, leaving only a small triangular space exposed externally between the arms.
The tube is composed of five rows of quadrangular, rather 1 These sinuses, wtiicli look somewhat like suture lines, give to the muscle plates the appearance of representing separate pieces, interradially disposed, and this led us at first to regard them as oral plates.
delicate jDlates, which are bent longitudinally so as to form an angle, and each plate extends to, and forms a part of, two of its sides.
The interradials alternate with radial dome plates, which are even smaller, angular above.
The summit is closed by the proximals and oral plate, all of which are much larger than the interradials.
The proximals consist of four comparatively large, nodose plates, which enclose toward the azygous side three scarcely convex, smaller ones.
The oral plate is the largest piece of the ventral side, it forms an inverted cup, containing radiating grooves along the inner floor, which lodged the ambulacra.
Arms five, long, simple; closely folded together and forming a narrow, cylindrical body.
They are composed of a large number of quadrangular joints, with parallel sutures, and are provided with a deep ventral furrow, but apparently have no pinnules.
The first brachial differs somewhat in form from the others ; it is always higher, extending to the level of the oral plate ; also wider, but not quite as deep.
Its proximal face is provided with a muscular appendage, which corresponds with that of the radials; its distal end, however, shows neither ridge nor fossae.
The higher brachials in all probability were united by suture, and the arms moved as a body upon the radials.
The articular faces of the latter are provided near their outer margin with a transverse ridge (PI.
5, figs.
12, 13), extending to the whole width of the plate, with a transverse axial canal.
The ventral furrow is deep, has a longitudinal groove along the inner floor, and rib-like projections alternating with grooves along the inner walls.
The sides of the furrow are lined by two rows of short transverse side-pieces about eight to each side of the arm joint alternately arranged, which leave a zigzag median opening along the whole length of the arms.
There are also lateral pores, one to every side-piece, and these connect with, and form the upper end of, the lateral furrows at the inner walls of the arm grooves to which we alluded.
The lateral faces of the arm joints are provided along their outer side with shallow slanting grooves (PI.
5, figs.
12, 13), and these agree in number with the pores.
It seems to us very probable that, b}' means of these grooves, the ventral furrow was brought in contact with the surrounding element, as the arms in this genus are so closely folded together, that without them no communication was possible.
Column long, cylindrical ; with small central canal.
Geological Position, etc.
Symbathocrinus, commenced in the Hamilton group, attained its greatest abundance in the two Burlington formations, and disappeared at the termination of the Keokuk period.
1869.
Symbathocrinus brevis Meek & Worthcn, Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 68; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
v, p. 439, PL ii, fig.
6.
Lower Burlington limestone, Burlington, Iowa.
1836.
S. conicus Phillips, Geol.
Yorkshire, p. 206, PI.
4, figs.
12, 13; Austin, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., x, p. 108; also Monog.
Rec.
and Foss.
Grin., p. 93, PI.
11, figs.
5 &, c (not 5 a, which is a Poteriocrinoid); d'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr.
i, p. 156; McCoy, 1854, Syn.
Brit.
Palaeoz.
Foss., p. 118.
Mountain limest., Ireland and England.
1852.
S. dentatus Owen & Shuin., Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(new sen), vol.
ii, p. 93, PI.
II, fig.
7; also 1852, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, Wise, and Minnesota, p. 597, PI.
5 R, figs.
7 b.
Upper Burlington limest., Burlington, Iowa.
1880.
S. granuliferus Wetherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., PI.
16, figs.
3, 3 a. Kinderhook gr., Kentucky.
1858.
S. matutinus Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, p. 483, PI.
i, fig.
2.
Hamilton gr., New Buffalo, Iowa.
1860.
S. Oweni Hall, 13th Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 111.
Kinderhook gr., Rockford, Indiana.
1861.
S. papillatus Hall, Descr.
New Crin.
(Prelim.
Notice), p. 18.
Upper Burlington limestone, Burlington (a mere variety of S. dentatus).
1865.
S. robustus Shumard, Trans.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., vol.
ii (Palaeozoic Foss.
America), p. 397.
Meek and Worthen, 1885, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 514, PI.
29, fig.
4.
Keokuk limestone.
Button-Mould Knob, Ky., and Sulphur Springs, near Nashville, Tenn. 1858.
S. Swallovi Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, Pt.
II, p. 672, PI.
17, figs.
8 and 9.
(?)
St. Louis limestone.
Missouri.
1869.
S, WachsmutM Meek and Worthen (not 1866== Catillocrinus Wacbsmuthi), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 67 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, v, p. 437, PI.
2, fig.
.5.
Lower Burlington limestone.
Burlington, Iowa.
1859.
S. Wortheni Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, Pt.
ii, p. 560, PL 9, fig.
9.
Upper Burlington limestone.
Burlington, Iowa.
PHIMOCRINUS Schultze.
1866.
Schultze, Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 29.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palaeoutologie, i, p. 350.
1882.
Oehlei-t, BuU.
Soc.
Geol.
de France, Ser.
3, x, p. 353.
Phimocrinus agrees almost completely with Symbathocrinus, but it has five basals in place of three.
It also has similar articular facets, which, in a like manner, form a stelliform pyramid, of which, however, the summit plates have not been observed.
The anal opening is situated between two muscle-plates, and evidently was extended into a tube, as in Symbathocrinus.
The form of the arms is not known.
Column pentagonal, with a small pentalobate central canal.
Geological Position, etc.
Phimocrinus is restricted to the lower part of the Devonian.
1882.
Phimocrinus Jouberti Oehlert, Bull, de la Soc.
G^ol.
de France, Ser.
3, tome X, p. .352, PI.
8, fig.
1.
Devonian.
Sabr6, France.
1866.
Ph.
laevis, Schultze (Type of the genus), Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 29, PI.
3, fig.
6.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1866.
Ph.
quinquangularis Schultze, Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 30, PI.
3, fig.
7.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
STYLOCRINUS Sandberger.
(Re-defined by "W".
and Sp.)
1850.
Versteinerungen Nassau's, p. 400.
Syn.
Platycrinus (partim) Goldfuss, 1838.
Nova Acta Leop.
XIX, i, p. 345 ; also Quenstedt, 1852, Handb.
d, Petrefactenk., Ed.
1, p. 618.
Syn.
Symbathocrinus (partim) Miiller, 1855, Verb, naturb.
Verein fiir Rbeinlande, xii, p. 19 ; also Neue Ecbin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 257 ; Scbultze, 1866, Monogr.
Eifl.
Kalk ., p. 26 ; Zittel, 1879, Handb.
d.
Palseont., i, p. 349.
Stylocrinus has been generally regarded as identical with Symbathocrinus, and Sandberger, when he proposed the name, failed to point out the generic differences.
He applied the name to a species from Vilmar, which afterwards was found to be specifically identical with " Symbathocrinus " tabulatus, from the Eifel.
The absence of an anal plate, and even of an anal opening in the Eifel species, was overlooked or disregarded by all European writers.
Zittel described the ventral side of Symbathocrinus as plated, and containing an anal tube reaching to the tips of the arms ; he also spoke of oral plates, which were said to form beneath the vault a concealed consolidating apparatus.
This description, incorrect as it is, was evidently made from the Carboniferous form, as in the Eifel species nothing is known of the calyx beyond the radials.
In Symbathocrinus the anal opening is located between two of the muscle-plates ; but in the Eifel species, which we make the type of Stylocrinus, the muscular appendages of all the radials are suturally united.
This suggests that the opening probably penetrated the interradials, as in Haplocrinus, and it may have had, like that genus, only an oral plate and no proximals.
In the construction of the dorsal cup, Stylocrinus agrees with Symbathocrinus.
The two genera, however, differ in the articular extensions of their radials, which extend only inward, not upward, and form a level with the outer edges of the radials.
The arms are composed of quadrangular joints, with parallel sutures, and they possess a deep ventral furrow.
The column is circular, and consists of thick joints, those at the upper end being comparatively strong, but they are reduced very soon to less than one half of their greatest width.
The only known species is : *1838.
Stylocrinus tabulatus (Goldf.
), Platycrinus tabulatus, Nova Acta.
Leopold.
xix, i, p. 345.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d. Petrefactenk.
(Ed.
1), p. 618, PL 54, fig.
25.
Symbathocrinus tabulatus, Miiller, 1855, Verb, naturh.
Verein f. Rheinl.
xii, p. 19, PI.
i, figs.
4, 5 ; Schultze, 1866, Monogr.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 27, PI.
3, figs.
4, 5.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Var.
alta Miiller, Verein f. Rheinl.
xii, PI.
4, fig.
5; Schultze Monogr., PL 3, fig.
4.
Var.
depressa Miiller, ibid., PI.
4, fig.
4; Schultze, ibid., PI.
3, fig.
5.
Si/n.
Platycrinus laevigatus Goldf.
; P. alutaceus, P. scrobiculatus, P. nodulosus.
These names were applied by Goldfuss to specimens in the Museum of Bonn to mere variations of Stylocrinus tabulatus, but have never been published (Schultze).
Syn.
Stylocrinus scaber Sandberger, Versteinerungen Nassau's, p. 400, PI.
35, fig.
12.
Syn.
Platycrinus gerolsteiniensis Steininger, Geogn.
Beschreib.
d. Eifel, p. 37.
STORTINGOCRINUS Schultze.
1866.
Monogr.
Echin, Eifl.
Kalk., p. 69.
Syn.
Platycrinus (partim), Goldfuss and Wirthgen and Zeiler.
Stortingocrinus agrees in the lower portions of its calyx with Platycrinus^ to which it was referred by Goldfuss and Miiller.
That it does not belong to the Camarata, and hence is no Platycrinoid, is shown by the mode of articulation, which is like that of HaplociHnus, and by the form of the radials, which, in the place of being notched, are extended upward, and support upon their limbs a sing-le interradial as those of the Blastoids.
Generic Diagnosis.
Basals three, unequal; two of them twice the size of the third one, which is rhomboidal.
Radials large, subquadrangular ; their articular facets deeply inserted, forming a depression with a slightly concave upper face.
Their lateral margins of adjoining radials are connected by suture, they extend upwards and inwards, forming partitions between the arm bases, leaving but a small space for the reception of the arms.
Column round, with a stellate central canal, its angles directed radially.
Geological Position, etc.
Stortingocrinus is restricted, so far as known, to the lower beds of the Devonian of Europe.
*1838.
Stortingocrinus decagonus (Goldfuss) Platycrinus decagonus, Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold, xix, i, p. 345.
Schultze, Platycrinus (Stortingocrinus) decagonus; Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 70, PI.
10.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
*1S55.
St. fritillus, (Wirthgen and Zeiler), Type of the genus.
Platycrinus fritillus, Verb, naturh.
Verein f.
Rheinl., Jahrg.
xii (n. sen), p. 80, PI.
10, figs, i and 5.
Schultze, Platycrinus (Stortingocrinus) fritillus, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 69, PI.
10, figs.
8-8 f. Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Syn.
Platycrinus asper, P. pusillus, P. rugosus, P. scobiculatus and P. scaber Goldfuss, and P. minutus Schurr.
*1866.
St. trifidus (Schultze), Platycr.
(Stortingocr.)
trifidus, Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 70, PI.
10, figs.
8a-g. Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
PISOCRINTJS De Koninck.
1858, De Koninck.
Bull, de 1' Acad.
Roy.
de Belgique (Ser.
2), iv, p. 104.
1873.
Salter, Cat, Cambr.
Museum, p. 128.
1879.
Handb.
d. Palseontologie i, p. 348.
18T8, Angelin, Iconogr.
Crin.
Suec, p. 20, 1879.
S. A. Miller, Joum.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat, Hist.
(July).
Syn, Symbathocrinus (in part), F, Roemer, Silur.
Fauna, "West Tenn., p. 55, Syn.
(?)
Triacrimts, Miinster, 1839 (in part), Beitrage zur Petrefactenkunde, p, 4.
Syn, Symhathocrinus (in part), Roemer, 1860, Silur,, Fauna West.
Tennessee, p, 55.
Pisocrinus is closely allied to Triacrinus, but the latter is said to have three basals; Pisocrm us has five.
The arrangement of the other calyx plates is identical, and also the arm structure.
Schultze, who observed in the Eifel species only three basals, postulated from this that the Silurian species from Sweden, for which De Koninck had established the genus Pisocrinus, also consisted of but three plates, Angelin, who succeeded Schultze, and who had at his command the extensive collections of the Stockholm Museum, describes the genus with five basals, and all his figures show five plates.
We also examined from the same horizon in America several hundred specimens of at least three species from Western Tennessee, all of which have five basals and not three ; but in one of those species the basals are so small that they were almost completely covered by the column, and it appears as if the sutures between the plates of the second ring, of which only three touch the basals, were the sutures between the plates of the first ring.
A similar structure is found in Pisocrinus pilula (Iconogr., PL 4, fig.
4 6), a species which in its general aspect is closely allied to Triacrinus depressus MUller.
We do not pretend to say, however, that this species had five basals ; it is very possible that two of these plates became anchylosed, and that the genus made its reappearance in the Devonian with only three basals.
Generic Diagnosis.
Calyx in its general aspect clove-shaped, its form subconical, sometimes pyriform.
Basals five, unequal; three of them larger and trapezoidal, the two smaller ones trigonal, which combined form an irregularly triangular cup.
The radials are extremely irregular, only the two anterolateral ones touching the basals.
These two are more than twice as large as the other three plates ; they are hexagonal, and have the same form and size.
The anterior radial is triangular, with convex sides, and rests with its lower angle half way between the two larger ones.
At the posterior side, the basals do not support a radial, but are succeeded by a pentangular azygous plate, which shares with the two large radials an equal part.
The plate has the form of an axillary, is broadly truncate below, with short lateral faces, and is sharply angular above.
The two posterolateral radials meet above the azygous plate, resting upon its sloping upper sides, and against the upper half of the two larger radials.
Their width is identical with that of the larger ones, and in a ventral aspect the radials appear to be perfectly sj^mmetrical.
Pisocrinus has similar articular appendages as Symhathocrinus, which cover a good part of the ventral surface.
The articulation, however, does not occup}' the whole width of the radials; there is at each side of the plates an upright extension, which together with that of adjoining radials produces interradially, between the arms, a conspicuous projection, similar to that of Haplocrinus^'but more prominent.
The construction of the ventral side is not known, the space beyond the articular faces is open in all onr specimens, but probably was covered in a similar manner as in Si/mbathocrinus.
The arniJ^ are long, simple, rounded along the outer face, and less closely fokled than in SinnbotJiocrinus.
They are composed of extremely long, single joints with parallel upper and lower faces.
The column is circular and has a stellate central canal.
Geological Positioyi, etc.
Pisoci-imis is restricted to the Upper Silurian, and occurs in Europe and America.
Pisoci'inus Dixoni Troost is a catalogue name.
1S78.
Pisoorinus flagellifer Angclin, loonogr.
Crin.
Suec, p. 21, PI.
4, figs.
1 a-e. Upper Silur., Gothland, Sweden.
1S7P.
P. gemmiformis ?.
A. Miller.
Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(,July), PI.
9, lii;s. (i (!-<-.
Niagara gr.. Kiply Co., Indiana.
1S7S, P. oUula Angelin, Iconogr.
Crin.
Suec., p. 21, PI.
4, figs.
4 a-rf.
Upper Silurian, llothland, Sweden.
ISoS.
P. ornatus I>e Konim-k.
Hull, de TAcad.
Roy.
de Bolg.
(Ser.
2), Tome 4 (Extr.
p. 27), PI.
2, figs.
12, 13.
Upper Silurian, Dudley, England.
ISoS.
P. pilula De Koninek (Type of the genus).
Bull, de I'Aoad.
Koy.
de Belg.
^Ser.
2), Tome 4 (Extr.
p. 2ti), p. lOt^, figs.
S-11 : Angelin, lS7v^, loonogr.
Crin.
Suec.. p. 21, PI.
4, figs.
4 <i, ft. Upper Silurian, Dudley, England, and l<othland, Sweden.
1S7S.
P. pooillum Angelin, loonogr.
Crin.
Sueo., p. 21, PI.
4, figs.
:i, .
"^ <i.
Upper Silurian, Gothland, Sweden.
*lSiUi.
P. tenuesseensis (Koouier).
Symbathoorinus tennesseensis.
Silur.
Fauna, West.
reuu.,p.
.
'>'>, PI.
4, figs.
t> o.
/>.
Niagara gr.
Dooatur Co., Teun.
TRIACRINUS Miinster.
ISr^O.
3Tunstor, Boitnige ?..
Potrefiu-tonk., p. 8.
1S50.
D'Orbigny, Prodr.
do Valeont., i, p. 104.
1866.
Schnltze, Monogr.
Eehin.
Eifel Kalk., p. 106.
1879.
Zittol, llaudb.
d.
Pahvont., i, p. 348.
Syn.
2'richocnnus Miillor.
^Monatsbor.
ISoO.
p.
3o4., and Xouo Ecbin.
d. Eitl.
Kalk., p. 04?.
Triacrinus ditVer^s from Pisocrinus in having three basals in place of five, in all other eharaoters the two forms are identical.
"We have some doubt whether the few species which have been referred to TriacHnus have not really five basals instead of three.
In this case the genus would take the name Pisocrinus and not 'Triacnnus, although the latter has priority.
Miinster described the base as tripartite, making this the name-giving character, and Pe Koninok, who found five basals in his species, was in our opinion perfectly justified in establishing for it a new genus.
1857.
Triacrinus altus (Muller), Tricliocriinis altus, Neue Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk.. p. 249, PI.
2, figs.
S-11.
Schultze, 1SG6, Triacrinus altus, Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 109, PI.
12, fig.
9.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1857.
T. depressus (Muller), Trichocrinus depressus, Xeue Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 249, PI.
2, tigs.
12-17.
Schultze, 1866, Triacrinus depressus, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 108, PI.
12, fig.
8.
Devonian.
Eifel.
1839.
T. granulatus Miinster, Beitr.
z.
Petrefactenk., p. 4.
Upper Silur.
(?).
Schiibekammer, Germany.
1839.
T. granulatus Jliinster, type of the genus, Beitr.
z.
Petref., p. 3, PI.
1, figs.
4 a, b, c. Devonian.
Benitzlosau, near Hof, Germany.
LAGENIOCRINUS De Kon.
& Lehon.
1853.
De Kon.
and Lehon., Recherch.
snr les Crin.
Carbon, de la Belg., p. 1S7.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palseontologie, i.. p. 350.
Zittel has placed Lageniocrinus along with Symbathocrinus and Phimocrinus, and we think for good reasons.
We also agree with him that the five plates, which in the specimens cover the ventral surface, represent the arms and not radials as was supposed by De Koninck.
These plates evidently could be opened, and there were plates underneath covering the calyx.
Lageniocrinus represents in our opinion an embryonic form, and may possibly be the young stage of Symbathocrinus.
Of this genus we found a verv minute specimen, in which the arms consisted of but three successive joints, forming jointly a pyramid : while adult specimens sometimes have as many as a hundred.
Generic Diagnosis.
General form flagon-shaped ; that of the dorsal cup funnel-shaped.
Basals three, elongate, two of them larsrer and pentangular, the smaller one rhomboidal, which together form a tubular body which is slightly wider above.
The radials are quadrangular, wider above than below.
Two of them rest upon the truncate upper faces of the two larger basals, the three others against their sloping sides and against the upper s.AcS of the smaller basaL There is no anal plate.
The arms consist of single joints, which, folded together, form a pyramid.
The ventral surface of the calyx is not known.
IS'AS.
Lageaioeriftms seMisolas I^ Koa.
asd Leltoa, Bediereli.
car ks Ciim.
CariMB.
4elkB^.,p.lS9, PL4fs.l-e. MooitaiB loMst.
Tm^ (1) RHOPALOCRINUS W. & Sp., Rev.
i, p. 57.
This genus was referred by us provisionall}^ to the Ichthyocrinidge, where it cannot remain, as it has not the articulate structure so characteristic of that group.
We now place it with the Inadunata, as the arms were evidently free from the first radials ; but we are yet in doubt if it should go with the Symbathocrinidae, Cupressocrinidae, Gasterocomidae, or be made a distinct group.
Family XV.
CUPRESSOCRINID-E Roemer.
The Cupressocriuidse in our classification consist only of the genus C2ipressocrinus.
Schultze, Zittel and De Loriol, however, added Symbathocrinus and Phimocrinus, which unquestionably differ from Gupressocrinus more than Pisocrinus and Triacrinus, for which they proposed a separate group.
GUPRESSOCRINUS Goldfuss.
(PI.
4, fig.
1.)
1826.
Goldfuss, Petref.
Germaniae, i, p. 330.
1835.
Agassiz, Memoir Soc.
des Sci.
natur.
d. Neuchatel, i, p. 198.
1838.
Goldfuss, Nova Acta.
Ac.
Leopold.
XIX, i, p. 330.
1839.
Miinster, Beitrage z.
Petref., p. 3.
1845.
F. Roemer, Leonh.
and Bronn's Jahrbuch, p. 291.
1850.
D'Orbigny, Prodrome de Paleont., i, p. 103.
1852.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d. Petref.
(Ed.
1), p. 623.
1855.
Sandberger, Versteinerungen Nassau's, p. 401.
1855.
F. Roemer, Lethsea Geognostica (Ausg.
3j, p. 230.
1857.
Pictet, Traite de Paleont., vol.
iv, p. 306.
1862.
Dujardin and Hupe, Hist, natur.
des Zooph.
Echin., p. 110.
1866.
Schultze, Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 14.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 348.
1880.
Quenstedt, Handb.
d.
Petref., -Ed.
3, p. 962.
1882.
De Loriol, Paleontologie Franc, tome xi, p. 47, not Ad.
Roemer, Harzegebirge, p. 8 ; nor McCoy, Syn.
Brit.
Palseoz.
Foss., p. 117.
Syn.
Halocrinites Steininger, 1831, Mem.
Soc.
Geol.
de France, i, p. 349.
Syn.
Cyprensocrinites Steininger, 1849, Verstein.
Uebergangsgeb.
d.Eifel, p. 20.
^yn.CypeUocrinites^tQ\m\\ge.Y, 1853, Geogn.
Beschr.
d. Eifel, p. 36.
Goldfuss, in 1826 (Petrefacta Germania), gave a good description of this genus, to which he made additions in 1838 (Beitrage zur Petrefactenkunde, p. 334).
At both times he expressed the conviction that the ventral covering was probably membranous.
The arms he described as bearing " siibelformige Teiitakeln " (pinnules), and in the description of Cupressocrinus gracilis he gave a grapliic account of the articular facets of the radials.
These, according to his statement, extend deeply inward, so as to diminish largely the width of the visceral cavity, which at the upper end is reduced to one half the depth of the facet.
Behind the " Nahrungscanal " (axial canal), he says, there extend out two diverging muscular extensions, which connect by a crosspiece, abut against their fellows of adjacent radials, and form together a star-shaped figure, composed of five pairs of leaves.
The ventral surface, therefore, according to Goldfuss, consists of five coalesced muscle-plates, and not, as was supposed by Roemer, Schultze and Zittel, and heretofore by ourselves, of an independent plate or appai'atus, peculiar to this genus.
F. Roemer described it as a cribriform calcareous plate, in form of a five-leaved flower.
Schultze speaks of it as five delicate plates, which join radially, four of them equal, the fifth one different and containing the anal opening.
He calls it a consolidating apparatus, constituting a part of the inner body, and not portions of the outer test; pierced by various openings, through which the blood-vessels, axial canals and genital organs passed into the arms.
A similar view was held by Zittel, who stated : " There is in the interior of the calyx, at the base of the arras, a peculiar annular, so-called consolidating apparatus, composed of five large interradial (oral) plates, with a round (mouth) opening at the centre."
Also, De Loriol mentions a peculiar " Consolidations-apparat, qui a ete rapproche des hydrospires."
The views expressed by us, Rev.
I, p. 12, to which De Loriol alludes, differ from those of our co-laborers.
We held that the so-called " consolidating apparatus " was composed of five oral plates, which we thought stood in connection with five pairs of h3^drospires.
To this interpretation we were partly led by a certain superficial resemblance, but principally by the fact that Roemer, Schultze and Zittel, who had access to the splendid collections fi'om the Eifel, all agreed that the plates in question were interradial in position.
If this had been true, nothing could have been more natural but that these plates should be structurally identical with the deltoids of the Blastoidea, and the interradials of the Gyathocrinidae, which were then held by us to be oral plates.
A very different interpretation of the so-called consolidating apparatus has been given to us by Dr. P. H. Carpenter, who regards it as representing the united muscle-plates of the radials.
He wrote to us as follows : " I look upou the consolidating apparatus as offering a surface for the attachment of muscles by which the arms were moved on the calyx.
The successive armpieces I will not call them 'joints ' were suturally united and not movable upon one another, so that the arms were moved en masse upon the calyx, and this must have required very strong muscles between the calyx and first brachials.
All that is ordinarily supposed to represent the articular face of the radials is shown in Schultze's Taf.
II, fig.
5 a, while that of the arm-base appears on fig.
7 b.
Now, it appears to me improbable that the heavy, massive arms of Gupressocrinus were moved by muscles which had no further surface of attachment at their proximal end, at any rate than is shown in Fig.
5 a. Symbathocrinus has large muscle-plates, but there is nothing of this kind in Gupressocrinus, without the consolidating plates.
The calyx of Phimocrinus Isevis (Schultze, Taf.
Ill, fig.
6 a), corresponds to that of Gupressocrinus, with the consolidating plates in situ.
There is the same arrangement round the anal opening, of which there is absolutely no trace in Gupressocrinus, without the consolidating plates, and yet it is clear from Schultze's description that he regards (rightly as I believe) the top of the calyx to be formed of the ' Gelenkflachen der Radialia,' with the anus between two of them.
I cannot, therefore, help regarding the consolidating apparatus of Gupressocrinus as consisting of the united muscles-plates of the radials, from the lower portions of which they are apt to separate."
This seems to us a very reasonable solution of the question, and we fully agree with Carpenter.
We have since found that the plates are not interradially disposed, nor do they form separate pieces ; the sutures which we thought we observed are evidently radial sinuses, similar to those which we described in Symbathocrinus.
The arm structure of Gupressocrinus was also poirvted out more accurately by Goldfuss than b}^ most of the succeeding writers.
The outer and inner " Querbalken " of Schultze (Mon., PL l,figs.
1 /i, a, 13), are obviously the basal portions of incurved pinnules, and as such they were described and figured by Zittel.
These pinnules, however, in the opinion of Carpenter, are not homologous with those of other Crinoids, there being six or more of them to each arm plate, given off from each side, in place of one alternately arranged, a structure similar to that of the so-called pinnules of the Blastoids.
Also their ambulacra, aside from not being recumbent and forming no part of the calyx, resemble closely those of the latter group.
By removing the lancet piece and side pieces in Pentremites, and exposing the sinus, it will be found that the inner sides of the limbs are constructed almost exactly as the inner walls of the arm-grooves in Cupressocrinus, as seen by a comparison with Schultze's figure in his Monograph, PL ii, figs.
7 and 11.
There are in both structures deep, rounded transverse grooves, alternating with ridges which are truncate above, and each one of them is provided lengthways with a small furrow at the top.
These furrows do not extend to the full length of the ridge, but are provided at their outer end with an articular facet for the attachment of a pinnule.
The pinnules at their base do not touch laterally, but leave a small open space in the direction of the lateral grooves.
These grooves form the outer half of a pore, similar to the hydrospire pores of the Blastoids, and like the latter probably are communicating in a similar manner with hydrospires, lodged, however, within the arm grooves and not within the calyx.
Schultze's figures 1 h and 1 i, in our opinion, are incorrect.
Cupressocrinus certainly had no such " Tentakel-Furche " as here represented, and we doubt if the genus possessed such minute irregular covering plates, either along the perisome or within the arms.
Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal side of the calyx basin-, cupor bell-shaped, composed of rather large, heavy plates; when the arms ai-e attached and closed, the form is ovoid or pyramidal.
The basals consist of five equal, pentagonal pieces, which enclose an equilateral, undivided disk, formed by a coalescence of the underbasals, or, according to others, by the upper stem joint which became enlarged and as such took the place of the underbasals in other genera.
Radials five, of similar form, wider than high, pentangular ; the upper margins truncate, and forming a horizontal line.
They are succeeded by five very short pieces, of the same width, which Schultze designated as " articularia " and as parts of the calyx.
The arms are wide, simple, closely folded together, and composed of a single row of from 2 to 20 heavy, transverse pieces, of which the upper and lower sides are parallel.
The arm plates grow narrower and shorter at their upper ends, they are suturally connected, and sometimes so closely anchylosed that no suture lines can be distinguished along the lateral margins of the arms.
The radials are connected with large muscle-plates (PL 4, fig.
1), which are laterally anchylosed, and together form one continuous plate.
This covers the greater part of the ventral surface, leaving in the centre but a comparatively small, irregularly pentagonal open space, which, as we suppose from analogy with allied forms, was covered in the animal by interradial and summit plates.
The median portions of each radial is pierced by two successive, rather large openings, of which the outer ones penetrate the upper margin of the plate, and serve as passages for the axial cords ; the inner ones, which pass through the muscle-plate, probably are ambulacral openings.
The muscle plate in its outer form is stellate, having five pairs of leaf-like extensions, two to each radial.
They contain upon their outer faces indistinct striae, which from both sides concentrate toward the axial opening.
The leaves become more delicate toward the periphery, especially interradially, where they are frequently broken, and the spaces, thus formed, appear in the specimens as if constituting natural openings.
The articulation of the arms with the calyx was facilitated b}^ the axillaria, which, like the radials, have an axial canal, and, according to Schultze, similar muscular processes.
The articular face of the arms is truncate, sloping toward the inner side, and corrugated for the reception of ligament.
The arm furrow is deep and wide, and contains along the inner floor an unusually large axial canal, which, to the extent of the proximal arm piece, is partitioned off from the ambulacral groove.
The exact construction of the ambulacra is not known, but we judge they were plated in a similar manner as those of Symhathoc7Hnus, and not membranous as described by Schultze.
They probably also were provided with lateral pores, and these were alternately arranged with incurved, articulated pinnules, resembling in form those of the recent genus Holopus, but arranged like those of the Blastoids, there being four or more to each arm joint.
Gupressocrinus has been described to possess no anal plate, only an anal opening, located between two of the muscle plates.
It has been overlooked, however, that in the two radials adjoining the anal opening the passages of the axial cords are placed considerably to one side, leaving sufficient space for an anal plate such as we find in Symhathocrinus^ and whose presence we postulated in Phimocrinus.
That such a plate really existed, is more probable since we find in G. gracilis the margin which forms the anal opening at one side considerably raised, and there are irregular upperedgesas if these had formed the baseof an anal tube.
The column is circular, triangular or quadrangular, composed of short joints.
It contains four large peripheral canals, rarely three or five, and a central one, which is either confluent with the others or isolated.
It is frequently provided with cirrhi, which have two canals, vertically arranged, and these also are frequently confluent.
Geological Position, etc.
Gupressocrinus is only known from the lower portions of the Devonian of Europe.
N. B. Gupressocrinus duhius and G. teres A. Roemer, and G. jientaporus Eichwald, were described from pieces of column ; G. calyx McCoy = Hydreionocrinus calyx (Rev.
ii, p. 131); G. impressus McCoy probably is Eupachycrinus.
]8;i8.
Gupressocrinus abbreviatus Goldf., Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold, xix, Pt.
i, p. 383, PI.
30, fig.
4.
D'Orbigny, Prodr.
i,p.
102.
Roemer, 1855, Leth.
Geogn.
(Ed.
3), i, p. 232.
Schultze, 1866, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 19, PI.
ii, fig.
1, and PL iii, fig.
3.
Dujardin and Hupe, 1862, Hist.
nat.
Zooph.
Echin., p. 112.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Schultze recognized the following varieties : C. alta, C. granulosa, C. hybida and C. minor.
Syn.
Halocrinites Schlotheimii Steininger, Mem.
Soc.
geol.
de France i, p. 349, PI.
21, fig.
1.
Syii.
Gupressocrinus Schlotheimii Steininger, Geogn.
Resch.reib.
d. Eifel, p. 36, and Versteiu.
der Eifel, 1849, p. 21.
Syti.
C. pyrimidalis Stein., Bull.
Soc.
geol de France (Ser.
i), ix, p. 295, PI.
4.
Syu.
G. nodosus Sandberger, Versteiner.
Nassau's, p. 401, PI.
35, fig.
5.
Syn.
C. Urogalli Roemer, Palaeontgr.
iii, p. 9, PI.
2, fig.
7.
1826.
C. crassus (ioldfuss (Type of the genus), Petref.
Germanite i, p. 212, PI.
64, fig.
4 ; also 1838, Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold, xix, Pt.
i, p. 331, PI.
30, fig.
1, Agassiz, 1835, Soc.
de Neuchat.
i, p. 198.
D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr.
i, p. 102.
Bronn., Lethaea Geogn.
1 and 2.
F. Roemer, Leth.
Geogn.
i, 1855 (Ausg.
3), p. 232, PL 4, figs 9 a, b, c. Bronn, 1860,Classen dee Thierreichsii,Pl.
28, fig.
1.
Dujardin and Hupe, 1862, Hist.
nat.
Zooph.
Echin., p. 112, PI.
5, fig.
12.
Schultze^ ] 866.
Men.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 23, PI.
3, fig.
1.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Si/ii.
Cypressocrinus crassus Steininger, Geogn.
Beschreib.
d. Eifel, p. 36 and Versteiner.
d. Eifel, p. 20.
Si/ii.
Gupressocrinus ^tetragonus GoIdfu.ss, Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold.
.\ix, Pt, i, p. 332, PI.
30, fig.
3.
8 1838.
C. elongatus Goldfuss, Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold, xix, Pt.
1, p. ^?il, PI.
30, fig.
2.
Miinster, 1839, Beitr.
d.
Petrefactenk., p. 3, PI.
i, figs.
1 a, b.
D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr.
i, p. 102.
Schultze, 1866, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 23, PI.
r^, fig.
1.
Dujardin and IIup6, Hist, natur.
Zooph.
Echin., p. 112.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Syn.
C. gerolsteinensis Stein, 1849, Verst.
d. Eifel, 1849, p. 20.
St/n.
C. prismatious Stein, 1849, ibid., p. 20.
Syn.
C. elongatus Stein, Geogn.
Beschreib.
d. Eifel, p.
.">6.
1826.
C. gracilis Goldfuss, Petref.
Gernaaniae, i, p. 213, PI.
64, fig.
5 : also Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold, xix.
Pt.
I, p. 334, PI.
30, figs.
5 or, ft, c (not b d).
Steininger, 1849, Versteiner.
d. Eifel, p. 20.
D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr.
i, p. 1 02.
Dujardin, and Hupe, 1862, Hist.
nat.
Zooph.
Echin., p. 113.
Schultze, 1866, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 23, PI.
3, fig.
2.
Devonian.
Eifel.
Germany.
1866.
C. hieroglypMcus Schultze, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk;, p. 25, PI.
1, fig.
3.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1866.
C. inflatus Schultze, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 24, PL 1, fig.
2.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1866.
C. scaber Schultze, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 25, PI.
1, fig.
4.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Family XVI.
GASTEROCOMIDJE.
The Gasterocomidse embrace the following genera : Gasterocoma, Nanocrinus and Myrtillocrinus.
They were united by Pictet and by Dujardin and Hup^, with the Haplocrinidse ; Roemer, Schultze, Zittel and De Loriol, however, treated them as a separate family.
GASTEROCOMA Goldfuss.
1838.
Goldfuss, Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold, xix, 1, p. 350.
1853.
Steininger, Geogn.
Beschreib.
d. Eifel, p. 38.
1857.
Miiller, Neue Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 257.
1857.
Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 314.
1862.
Dujardin and Hupe, Hist, natur.
des Zooph.
Ecliin., p. 109.
1866.
Schultze, Mon.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 95.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Palseont., i, p. 863.
Syn.
Ceramocrimcs Miiller, 1855, Verb, naturh.
Virein f. Rheinlande, xii (n.
ser.
), p. 83.
Syn.
Epactocrinus Muller, 1855, ibid., p. 84.
Gasterocoma was described by Goldfuss to be composed of five basals and five radials, the latter as enclosing laterally an anal plate, and the anal opening as being located next to the posterior basal.
This definition, although substantially correct, was afterwards modified by Schultze.
He found that among species, and even among individuals of the same species, the construction of the azygous side undergoes most remarkable variations ; such as in other groups would be sufficient for generic separation.
The anal opening in this genus, as a rule, is located between the radials.
It either lies directly above the posterior basal, and is followed by a quadrangular or triangular anal plate, or the opening is situated above the anal plate.
In the former case the two posterior radials may close above the opening, or be separated from one another by additional plates ; the opening may even penetrate exceptionally the posterior basal.
Miiller's genus Ceramocrinics, according to Schultze, was founded upon a specimen in which the anal plate was placed above the opening, contrary to the typical form of Goldfuss, in which it was below.
The name Epactocrinus was proposed for a specimen with very irregular basals, portions of which evidently had been destroyed or fractured, and were restored by the animal, and this ma}^ have produced the irregular form.
The construction of the ventral side cannot be satisfactorily ascertained from Schultze's figures.
His figs.
1/, and 1 1, on PI.
xii, which are said to represent the ventral surface of Gasterocoma antiqua, are so different from one another, that we believe there is a mistake in the figures.
These figures diflfer again essentially from fig.
5 6, which is said to represent the same parts in Gasterocoma gibbosa.
Generic Diagnosis.
The lower disk has the form of a pentagon, and extends somewhat beyond the column.
It is surrounded by five basals, four of them equal, pentagonal; the fifth larger, hexagonal, truncate above.
Radials five, pentangular ; three of them are equal, the two next to the az3'gous side irregular.
The two latter enclose laterally not only the anal plate, but also the anal opening, which is surrounded by a single ring of small plates, and either rests upon the truncated upper face of the larger basal, or is separated from the latter by an anal plate.
In either case the anus, as a general rule, is succeeded by one or more anal pieces, which, however, in some specimens do not extend to the upper end of the radials, and in tliis ease the radials meet above the anal plates.
The radials have a lateral articular facet of the horseshoe form, which extends deeply into the plate.
It is notched above for the arm furrow, and pierced by a large axial canal, which is removed far off from the outer edge of the plate.
The arms evidently were heavy, and, to judge from the facets, were probably pendent.
The mouth of Gasterocoma, according to the position of the central piece, was excentric.
This central or, as we call it, oral plate al)iits against the two posterior radials; it is large, heavy, somewhat elongate, and surrounded anteriorly and laterally by what may prove to be four proximals (?).
The' interradial plates appear to be small, but may be pai'tly hidden from view by the large covering plates.
The form of the column is not known, but it was, like in Cupressocrinus, perforated with a central canal and four peripheral ones, which were confluent at the centre.
Geological Position, etc.
Confined to the Devtmian of the Eifel.
The following species have been described : 18;i8.
Gasterocoma antiqua Qoldf.
(Type of the genus), Nova Acta Ac.
Leopold.
XIX, i, p. 96.
Pictet, 1867, Traite de Pallont., iv, PI.
C, fig.
7.
Schultze, 1866, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 96, PI.
12, fig.
1.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Si/n.
Epactocrinus Irregularis Mliller (Wirtgen and Zeiler), 1855, Verb, naturh.
Verein.
f, Eheinl., xii, p. 85, PI.
12, figs.
5-8.
1866.
G. gibbosa Schultze, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 98, PI.
12, fig.
5.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1866.
G. MuUeri Schultze, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 99, PI.
12, fig.
2.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
Si/ii.
Ceramocrinus eifliensis Miiller (Wirtgen and Zeiler), Verb, naturh.
Verein f. Rheinlande, xii, p. 83, PL 12, fig.
2.
1866.
G. reticularis Schultze, Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 99, PL 12, fig.
:L Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
1866.
G. Stellaris Schultze, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 10(1, PI.
12, lig.
1.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
NANOCRINUS Miiller.
1856.
Miiller, Moiiatsber.
d. Berl.
Acad., p. 355.
1857.
Miiller, Neue Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 249.
1866.
Schultze, Monog.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 102.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palaeontologie, i, 364.
Nanocrinus is very closel}' allied to Gasterocoma, and had not Schultze found six specimens which all have the same irregular structure, we should feel inclined to regard it an abnormal form of that genus.
According to Schultze, the genus has five basals, but only four radials ; the place of the fifth one is said to be occupied by an interradial.
The latter is strictly radial in [)Osition, and as such should be designated as a non-arm-bearing radial.
Generic Diagnosis.
Basal cup as in Gasterocoma, but the plates less regular; four of them pentagonal, the posterior one considerably higher, hexagonal, truncate above.
Radials five, large, irregular in size, four of them arm-bearing, the fifth one not.
The articular facet is lateral, horseshoe-shaped, and occupies almost the whole outer face of the radials.
Three of the plates have a single facet, but the fourth, which is an axillary, has two, somewhat smaller than those of the others.
The non-arm-bearing radial is smaller by more than one-half than any of the rest; it is hexagonal or trapezoidal, and sometimes altogether absent.
The anal plate is placed between the lateral faces of two radials, and rests upon the truncate upper face of the larger basal.
It is subquadrangular, somewhat excavated for the anal opening, which generally occupies the upper portion of the anal plate, occasionally, however, as in Gaster'ocoma, tire lower side of it.
The form of the arms is unknown.
The interradials appear to be small, but probably are partly hidden from view by the unusually large covering pieces, which occupy the greater part of the ventral surface, and rest against the oral plate, which is extremely large, there being no proximals.
The column, like that of Gasterocoma, is provided with a central canal and four peripheral ones.
The only known species is : 1856.
Nanocrinus paradoxus Muller, Monatsher.
d. Berl.
Acad., p. 355; also Neue Echin.
d. Eifl.
Kalk.. 1857, p. 249, PI.
2, figs.
18-21.
Schultze, 1866, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk.. ).. 102, PI.
12, fig.
7.
Devonian, Eifel, Germany.
MYRTILLOCRINUS Sandberger.
1855.
Sandberger, Versteiner.
Nassau's, p. 388.
1857.
Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 311.
1862, Dujardin and Hupe, Hist, natur.
des Zooph.
Ecliinod., p. 108.
1862.
Hall, 15th Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 142.
186G.
Schultze, Moii, Echin.
Eifi.
Kalk., p. 96.
We have not seen the original description of this genus, but we infer from the notes of Pictet, Schultze and Hall, that Sandberger described it to possess a quinque-partite, quadri-canaliculate base.
In his figure it seems the central part was represented as undivided, and, curiously enough, the same is the case with Hairs figure of the American species, although he mentions in the description " five basals and five subradials."
We cannot understand how a base like this could have been divided into five parts not four aud, therefore, prefer, in default of further evidence, to regard it as undivided, although we are well aware that, if any such division did exist, it would prove most satisfac110 lft,0CEEUING8 OF THE ACADEMV Of [1886. torily that also the lower plate in the allied genera is underbasal.
Myrtillocrinus, in our opinion, is closely allied to Gasterocoma, if not identical with it, but it is possible that the anal opening which has not been observed was subcentral, in place of lateral.
It also appears from Hall's figure, as if it had two arms from each ray , although there is but one axial canal, which occupies the central space of the facet.
The facet in Hall's species is oval and strictly lateral, thus indicating that the arms were pendent.
Geological Position, etc.
Only two species are known, the one from Europe, the other from America, both coming from lower Devonian beds.
1S62.
Myrtillocrinus americanus Hall, 1 Jth Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 142, PI.
1, figs.
2-4.
Upper Helderberg group.
Livingston Co., N. Y.
1855.
M. elongatus Sandberger (type of the genus), Verstein.
Nassau's, p.
.
'588, PI.
35, fig.
6.
Pictet, Traits de Paleout., iv, p. 311, PI.
c. fig.
4.
Dujardin and Hupe, 1862, Hist, natur.
d. Zooph.
Echinod., p. 108.
Miiller, 1857, Neue Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 257.
Devonian.
Nassau, Germany.
b.
Branch, FISTULATA, W. and Sp.
The Fistulata embrace the Cyathocrinidse as they were defined by us heretofore, but which we now subdivide into Hybocrinida?, Heterocrinidse, Anomalocrinidae, Cj^athocrinidse and PoteriocrinidiB.
To these we add the Belemnocrinid.ne, Astylocrinidae and Encrinidse.
Zittel defined his Hybocrinidse as follows : Calyx irregular ; basis monocj^clic ; basals 5 ; radials 5 ; arms slender, singlejointed ; pinnules wanting ; and he placed in the family : Hybocrinus and Anomalocrinus.
His definition is deficient and not quite correct.
It would admit Pisocrinus and Rhopalocrinus, which we recognize as members of very different groups ; and it actually excludes Anomalocrinus, which has seven plates in the radial series and not five, and strong pinnules, which are wanting in Hybocrinus.
Hybocrinus represents a very peculiar form.
No other palaeozoic Crinoid deserves in so high a degree the designation embryonic type as this genus, Hybocystites and the allied genera Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus, which Zittel took to be synonymous with Hybocrinus.
These four genera, which are easily recognized by their monocyclic base, large body, imperfectly developed radial plates, small ventral sac, the embryonic state of their arms.
and the absence of pinnules, will be recognized by us as Hybocrinidse.
Among the Heterocrinidae Zittel placed Heterocrinus^Oraphiocrinus, Erisocrinus, Philocrinus and Stemmatocrinus.
The family was defined as follows : Calyx regular ; base monocyclic or dicyolic (five underbasals and five basals, or the latter only); five radials ; arms long, simple, rarely bifurcating.
The qualification " calyx regular " cannot be applied to Heterocrinus, which is one of the most asymmetrical forms of the Palaeocrinoidea, and this want of symmetry extends not only to the interradial series but also to the radial plates, and forms its best generic distinction.
Neither does that term apply to Graphiocrinus, which is bilateral, nor Philocrinus, which we think is decidedly irregular.
Only Stemmatocrinus and Erisocrinus have a pentamerous calyx, but these agree in other respects with the Poteriocrinidae.
Heterocrinus, in its general asymmetry, in arms and pinnules, and in its azygous side, closely resembles Anomalocrinus, which for other reasons we refer to a distinct family.
We add to the Heterocrinidse the two genera Stenocrinus and Ohiocrinus, ^vhich are founded upon species heretofore ranged under Heterocrinus, and unlike Zittel, place Graphiocrinus, Philocrinus, Stemmatocrinus and Erisocrinus under the Poteriocrinidae.
Anomalocrinus, which we make the type of a distinct famil}^, stands closer to the Heterocrinidae than to the Hybocrinidae, but differs from either of them very essentially in the relative size of the calyx, which is comparatively large, and low-cup or saucershaped in place of subcylindrical or narrowly turbinate.
It further differs from all known Crinoids, recent or fossil, in the arrangement of its pinnules, which are not given off alternately from opposite sides, but from every successive joint on one side at a time from one bifurcation to the next, where they change on both rami to the opposite side.
In the arrangement of the anal plates, and in having no underbasals, the Anomalocrinidae agree with the Heterocrinidae.
The Belemuocrinidae, which only contain Belemnocrinus and the imperfectly known genus Holocrinus, differ from the preceding families in having no underbasals ; they have, however, large basals, cylindrically arranged, but even these take little or no part in forming the visceral cavity.
In this regard Belemnocrinus resembles Rhizocrinus^ but it differs from that in having a strong porous ventral sac.
Zittel's C3^athocrinidjie include Ci/athocrinus, Nipterocrinus^ Barycrinus, Euspirocrinus, Ophiocrinus, Botryocrinus^ Palseocrinus^ Garabocrinus, Sphserocrinus and Pachyocrinus (Billings, not Eichwald).
with the following famil}^ diagnosis : Calyx globose; basis dicyclic, composed of five underbasals and five basals ; anals 1-3; arms strongly developed, single-jointed, long, branching, without pinnules ; ventral side covered by " oral plates."
From his list must be excluded Nipterocrinus, which has interradials and only three underbasals, and Pachyocrinus, which is too imperfectly known to determine its position.
There are besides Sicyocrinus, Ophiocrinus, Botryocrinus and Barycrinus, in which the arms, throughout their whole length, give off armlets at intervals, which evidentlj^ take the place of pinnules if they are not true pinnules themselves.
We direct attention to this point, as both Zittel and De Loriol make the absence of pinnules in the Cyathocrinidae the sole distinction between this family and the Poteriocrinidse.
The presence or absence of pinnules has been considered by us heretofore as a doubtful character for distinguishing families.
The pinnules are extensions of the arms, and in their organization, both morphologicallj^ and physiologically, almost identical with the arms.
They are short branchlets given off along the sides of the arms, but ordinarily'not extending to their tips.
The pinnules differ from arms only by their containing the fertile portions of the genital glands, while the arms lodge the genital cord.
The branches of the arms may be said to be modified pinnules, which differ from true pinnules in their greater length and thickness.
They are usually called arms when attaining the form and length of the primary arms, but armlets when shorter, less robust, and given off at regular intervals.
Frequently the branches are pinnule-bearing again, and this is the case in the Poteriocrinidae, in which all arms, whether branching or simple, main arms or side arms, are fringed with true pinnules.
The presence or absence of pinnules would prove to be a much better character for distinguishing the two groups, were it not that Barycrinus and allied genera represent a most perplexing transition form in having short side branchlets, given off at regular intervals, and these branching off once or twice again in a similar manner.
In these genera it is exceedingly difficult to determine whether the branches are armlets or pinnules, a question which cannot be decided definitely until we know where the genital glands are located.
It is probable that in the genus Cyathocrinus, at least in its Carboniferous form, all branches were artos.
We found in G. multihrachiatus^ along the three or four proximal arm joints, outside the adambulacral or side-pieces, small plates in rows of from four to six pieces (PI.
4, fig.
7 a, 6), succeeding each other longitudinally, which perhaps took the place of the genital pinnules.
No such plates, however, were represented in Baryc?
'inits^ in which the ventral grooves are comparatively narrow.
Cyathocrinus longimanus has no regular pinnules, but certain sabre-shaped appendages, composed of five segments, which from each side infold over the ventral furrow, covering it completely.
These appendages which we (Rev., i, p. 25) erroneously took to be rudimentary pinnules, ^ perhaps correspond with the so-called " pinnules " of the Cupressocrinidte and Blastoidea.
Another good distinction between the Cyathocrinidae and Poteriocrinidae is offered by their mode of articulation.
The radials of the former have horseshoe-like facets for the brachials ; in the Poteriocrinidae they are more or less truncate along the upper margin, and united with the brachials by a transverse ridge, occupying a median line and frequently their entire width.
The middle part of this ridge is pierced b^^ an axial canal, and there is a kind of muscle plate with more or less conspicuous fossae.
The outer edge of the plate is dentated and evidently was occupied by ligamentous bundles.
In the Cyathocrinidae the arms are always bifurcating, and their branches are given oflf at close intervals ; those of the Poteriocrinidae are frequent!}'
simple from the brachial bifurcation upwards, but when bifurcating, the divisions are o;iveu off irregularlv, and branches and main arms bear pinnules alternately from every joint ; there being no S3'zygies.
The arm joints of the former, with the exception of Barycrinus, are composed of long, slender joints with almost parallel sutures ; those of the latter are shorter, heavier and strongly wedge-shaped, even interlocking.
The same mode of articulation ^ A similar interpretation at that time was given by us of the anibulacral plates covering the arm furrows of Cyathocrinus iowensis, a mistake which w as rectified by Carpenter (Chall.
Rep., pp.
63-GG).
that unites radials and brachials, extends to all bifurcating plates of the Poteriocrinidap.
In Urisocrinus, Eiipachycrinus and Graphiocrmus, species with ten arms, it is found also among the proximal arm plates, not, however, in the allied Scytalocrinus and Decadocrinus, in which all arm plates above the brachials are united by suture or elastic ligament.
The same was probably the case in species with branching arms, in which all intermediate joints between the axillaries are without either ridges or fossae.
A sutural union also connects the brachials in cases where they consist of more than one plate, the apposed faces showing no traces of a syzygy or fossae.
In the arms of the Cyathocrinidse there are, so far as observed, no articular ridges nor axial canals, and no ligamentous fossfe, not even between radials and brachials, nor upon the axillaries.
The apposed faces of all their joints fit closely together, the distal end being slightly concave, the proximal to the same degree convex, so that we may assert that their mode of union has been either by suture or of a somewhat similar nature, and that the arms were either immovable or their motions limited, and probably of a mere passive character.
This difference in the articulation of tlie two types was noticed by J. S. Miller when describing the t3^pical genera, for he placed Cyathocrinus separately among Inarticulata, and Foteriocrinus among Semiarticulata.
These names, as applied to the rays, are very characteristic of the two groups, for the Poteriocrinidae are in their articulation much more highly differentiated, approaching in some cases the Neocrinoidea, Miller's Articulata.
In none of the Poteriocrinidtie has the ventral covering, with the exception of the so-called ventral sac, ever been observed, while that of the Cyathocrinidae is comparatively well known.
This, however, is parti}' explained by the condition of the radials, which in the Cyathocrinidie had ample space for the reception of interradials, contrary to the Poteriocrinidae, in which the articulation extends over the whole width of the radials, and the interradials, partly or wholly, had to rest against the muscle plates as in the Symbathocrinidae.
In the Cyathocrinidae the interradials were persistent through life, but they may have become resorbed in the Poteriocrinidae before reaching maturity.
The condition of the ventral side among the Cyathocrinidae varies considerably, and even among the species now referred to the genus Cyathocrinus there are several which range infinitely lower than others, and these should be placed under new genera.
The azygous side of the Cyathocrinidae consists rarely of more than two plates in the calyx the azygous plate and the anal piece ; but the Poteriocrinidte generally have three, owing to the fact that the first plate of the ventral tube extends often into the calyx.
The ventral sac is perhaps more clubor balloon-shaped in the Poteriocrinidae, more cylindrical in the Cyathocrinidae.
We subdivide the C3'athocrinid8e into : Dendrocrinites, genera with a large azygous and well-developed anal plate, embracing : Merocrinus, Carabocrinus, Dendrocrinus, Homocrinus, Ampheristocrinus and Farisocrinus.
BoTRYOCRiNiTES, genera having no special azygous plate or occasionally a rudimentary one, and armlets in place of pinnules: Atelestocrinus, Vasocrinus, Botryocrinus, Sicyocrinus, Streblocrinus and (?)
Barycrinus.
Cyathocrinites, genera without azygous plate, with branching arms without pinnules : Gyathocrinus, Arachnocrinus, Gissocrinus, Sphaerocrinua^ Achradocrinus^ Godiacrinus and (?)
Lecythiocrinus.
Zittel placed Gissocrinus among the Taxocrinidae, tlie perfectly symmetrical Godiacrinus among the most unsymmetrical Gasterocomidae, and Ophiocrinus, Dendrocrinus and Homocrinus, which are devoid of true pinnules, among the Poteriocrinidie.^ We subdivide the Poteriocrinidae as follows : PoTERiocRiNiTES, genera having an azygous plate, a regular anal piece, and the first plate of the ventral sac enclosed in the calyx : Foterioo'inus, Scaphiocrinus, Scytalocrinus, Decadocrinus, Woodocrinus, Zeacrinus, Hydreionocrinus, Gceliocrinus, Eiipachycrinu:<, Gromyocrinus and Tribrachiocrinus.
Graphiocrinites, genera without azygous or anal plate, but the first plate of the sac within the limits of the calyx : Graphiccrinus, Bursacrinus^ Phialocrinus and Geriocriniis.
Erisocrinites, genera without azygous or anal plate dorsally : Erisocrinus and Stemmatocrinus.
^ Prof. Zittel figures, Handb.
d.
Palaeont., i, p. 359, as type of the Poteriocrinidae a species devoid of pinnules.
Poteriocr.
curtus Miiller, is evidently a Hornocrinus.
Our Poteriocrinidie contain essentially the same genera as those of Zittel, but we except from his list Homocrinus, Dendrocrinus, Agassizocinnus and Belemnocrinus.
For the two latter we propose distinct families.
The Encrinidae are closel}^ allied to the Poterocrinidae, and we think will ultimately be consolidated with them.
Nothing, as yet, is known of their ventral structure, but neither of that of the Poterocrinidfe except their ventral tube.
There is nothing which proves that the ventral surface of Uncrimis was composed of soft parts, or that it was exclusively perisomic or diffei-ed from that of the Poteriocrinidse which are universally regarded as Palaeocrinoids.
The only difference which we have discovered is that in the Encrinidaj the brachials are united by syzygy and also the proximal arm plates ; contrary to the Poteriocrinidffi in which syzygies, so far as known, do not occur.
Among Astylocrinidae^ which represent the free floating Palaeocrinoidea, we include Agassizocrinus and Edriocrinus, the former with underbasals, the latter with basals only.
It is very possible that Edriocrinus will prove to be the type of a distinct family.
The Catillocrinidae contain : Catillocrinus and Mycocrinus.
The allied Calceocrinidse only the genus Calceocrinus.
These ten families are defined by us as follows : A. Hybocrinid^.
Base monocyclic ; calyx large compared with the arms.
Basals 5, unusually large.
Kadials irregular, the posterolateral one either unrepresented or very much smaller, and sometimes non-arm-bearing.
Arms frequently undeveloped in one or more rays, or recurrent and appressed onto the outer surface of the calyx; simple, and without pinnules.
Azygous side composed of a single, large azygous plate, and frequently an anal piece, which in form resembles the right posterior radial.
Ventral sac very small, consisting of a mere tumor-like protuberance.
B. Heterocrinid.e.
Base monocyclic.
Calyx small ; plates irregular.
Basals 5, variable.
Radials irregular, frequently compound in one or more rays ; the right posterior radial smaller, resting upon the azygous plate.
Brachials consisting of two or more pieces, united by syzygy.
Of the succeeding arm joints only every second, third or fourth one pinnule-bearing.
Azygous plate large; anal plate consolidated with the right posterior I radial, which toward the left supports a series of anal plates; toward the right the brachials.
Arms long ; the pinnules sometimes take the form of arms, and attain the same general height.
Column trior quinque-partite.
G. Anomalocrinid^.
Base monocyclic.
Form irregular.
Calyx cajjacious.
Azygous plate large ; supporting the right posterior radial, which toward the right is succeeded by a row of brachials, and toward the left by the ventral tube.
Arms composed of large quadrangular joints, giving off pinnules from one side only, from one bifurcation to the next, when all pinnules change to the opposite side.
Column strong, central canal wide, stelliform, its projecting angles directed inter radially.
D. Belemnocrinid^.
Base monocyclic.
Basals large ; cylindrical ; solid, only pierced b}^ a narrow central canal with a shallow concavity at its npper end, Eadials small, quadrangular, enclosing an anal plate of the same form.
Ventral sac large, club-shaped.
Arms long with numerous sj'zygies, only every second or third joint pinnule-bearing.
Pinnules long, often bifurcating.
Column round or pentangular, frequently with long cirrhi given off interradially.
E. CYATHOCRiNiDiE.
Base dicyclic.
Calyx globose, rarely turbinate.
Radials with horseshoe-like lateral facets supporting at least two, but frequently several more brachials.
Arms without true pinnules, but with branches in regular succession to their tips.
Arm joints with a few exceptions long and narrow ; quadrangular with almost parallel sides ; united either by suture or ligament, apparentl}^ not by muscles.
Ventral sac large, C3dindrical.
Column round or pentagonal ; central canal rather above medium size, pentagonal, the projections directed radially.
F. P0TER10CRINID.E.
Base dicj^clic.
Calyx deep and turbinate, or shallow and disk-like, owing to the form of the underbasals, which are either extended into a cup, or are turned inward and concave.
Radials somewhat irregular, of variable size, the right posterior one generally smaller ; all truncated at the upper face.
Brachials one or two, connected by suture ; the lower or l)roximal face truncate.
Arms simple or branching, with pinnules alternately arranged from every joint ; without syz^^gy.
Arm joints cuneate or interlocking.
Articulation between brachials and radials by muscles and ligament, and also between the upper faces of all axillaries and succeeding plates.
Ventral sac large, frequently inflated.
Column more or less pentagonal, its outer angles placed interradiall}', the cirrhi radiall3\ G. Encrinid^.
Dicyclic.
Closely allied to the Potei'iocrinidsp.
but, as a rule, without anal plates.
Basals with well-developed axial canals proceeding to the radials.
Their brachials composed of two pieces, united by syzygy, frequently with other syzygies in the higher portions of the arms.
Arms biserial or uniserial.
H. AsTYLOCRiNiD^.
Pedunculate in earlier life, detached from the column and free-floating in the adult, but not cirihus-bearing.
Plates of the calyx massive, and hence the visceral cavity comparatively small.
Underbasals present or absent, and also the azygous piece is sometimes wanting ; while the anal plate is always well developed.
I. Catillocrinid^.
Base nionoc3'clic.
The pentamerous symmetry greatl}' disturbed by the unequal size of the radials.
Those of the antero-lateral rays much larger and supporting many more arms.
Arms simple; composed of single joints resting directly upon the radials, with a separate socket for each arm, and a furrow for each ambulacrum.
Anterior ray, and both posterior rays rarely with more than one arm each.
There is no azygous nor special anal plate, one of the posterior radials supports towards the left a large ventral tube, composed of a single row of heavy curved plates, longitudinally' arranged, with an open furrow along their inner, i. e., ventral side.
Column circular.
J. Calceocrinid^.
Base monocyclic.
Calyx laterally depressed ; hanging downward from the column ; composed of three unequal basals, three arm-bearing radials, and two azygous radials without arms.
Basals and radials united by ligament, and toward the anterior side by muscles also.
In the normal position of the crinoid, the basals are located posteriorly, and the three radials at the opposite side.
Anterior radial smaller, compound ; composed of two pieces, which frequently are separated by the overhanging sides of the two lateral radials.
Arms of the lateral rays more numerous and branching ; anterior ray with a single arm, which sometimes dichotomizes toward the upper end.
Anal tube as in the Catilloci'inidee.
Family XVII.
HYBOCRINIDJE Zittel.
(Emend.
W. and Sp.)
BAEROCRINUS Volborth.
1864.
Volborth, Eine neue Crinoideen Gattung.
(Author's copy, p. 85).
1865.
Volborth, Bulletin St. Petersb.
Acad., vol.
viii, p. 178.
1866.
Volborth, Bulletin Soc.
Imp.
de Nat.
de Moscow, ii, p. 442.
1867.
Grevingk, Archiv.
f. Naturkunde Liv.-Ehst.
und Kurlands, Ser.
I, vol.
iv, p. 110.
18G7.
Grevingk, Uber Hyhocrinus dipentas and Buerocr.
Ungarni, Dorpat, p. 14.
1883.
P. Herb.
Carpenter, Quart.
Jouru.
Geol.
Soc.
London, Augu.-t, pp.
298 312.
1883.
W. and Sp., Amer.
.Jour.
Sci., vol.
xxvi, November, p. 365.
Syn.
Homocrinus Eicbwald (in part), 1865-66 ; Hyhocrinvt Schmidt (in j.art), 1874 ; Zittel (in part), 1879.
The genus Baerocrinus has been a subject of much controversy ever since 1864, owing to doubts whether the genus should be admitted or rejected.
It is unnecessary to give again a full history of these controversies, for which we refer to Dr. P. H. Carpenter's paper " On the Relations of Hyhocrinus, Baerocrinus and Hybocystites,^' and to our notes " On Hyhocrinus, Hoploerinus and Baerocrinus,^'' in the American Journal, of 1883.
Carpenter agrees with us and with Volborth and Grevingk that Baerocrinus is a good genus, and not, as suggested b}' Eichwald and Schmidt, an abnormal specimen of Hyhocrinus dipentas.
There has been also much difference of opinion as to the meaning of certain plates.
The type specimen has on its surface, along the basi-radial suture, and between two of the plates within the second or so-called radial ring, a peculiar structure, composed of numerous, irregular pieces, and upon this, principally, Volborth founded the genus.
He took this structure to be a madreporic body ; while Grevingk, Eichwald and Schmidt held it to be an accidental break in the test, due to mechanical agencies.
Carpenter considered it to be the regular anal opening.
He pointed out that it had the position of the anus in the Pentacrinoid larva at its earlier phases.
We stated in our paper that we did not agree with any of those views.
We think it possible that this structure may have served as an anal opening, but as an abnormal one, which had opened out when the regular opening became functionally defective.
We also differ from other authors in our interpretation of the plates.
Those of the second circlet have been regarded all five as radials, and the calyx to the top of the radials as being perfectly symmetrical.
It looks to us unreasonable, when we compare Baerocrinus with Hoplocrinus and Ryboc7'inus, and finding their structure in other essential points almost identical, that.
the one genus should be almost perfectly symmetrical, the other e'xtremely irregular.
And, therefore, it is probable that one of the nyn-armbearing so-called radials represents an azygous plate, such as we find in most of the Fistulata, that the right posterior radial and the anal plate were as yet undeveloped, and that Baerocrinus had but four radials.
This interpretation of the plates, it seems to us, is corroborated by the gradual ^disappearance of the azygous plate among allied forms in pala^ontological times, and b}^ the contemporary increase in the dimensions of the right posterior radial and the anal plate.
The two latter pieces probably were absorbed from the azygous plate : at first the posterior radial, which in Hoplocrinus took the right upper corner, the left side remaining intact ; afterwards in Hybocrinus the anal piece, which absorbed the left corner of the plate also.^ All this goes to prove that Baerocrinus represents a very low organization, or is, according to P. H. Carpenter, " a permanent larval form."
Revised Generic Diagnosis.
Form of the calyx cupor gobletshaped.
Underbasals wanting.
Basals five, subequal and comparatively large, Radials large, irregular, only four of them developed, the right poster o-lateral one absent.
Three of the plates equal, the fourth one narrower.
A large az3'gous plate occupies the same range with the radials and, like these, rests alternately^ upon the basals.
It is undivided, and resembles the radials in form.
In the type specimen onlj' three of the radials are arm-bearing, the smaller one not having even an arm-facet.
Arms five, simple throughout, ^ In our paper on Hyhocrinus, Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus, we stated that probably the azygoiis plate of the latter was liomologous with the anal plate as represented in the larva of Aniedon.
In making this statement we had overlooked the fact that the latter plate is simply an interradial with special function, while the azygous plate in Baerocrinus is as much radial as interradial.
They both agree, however, in being absorbed by other plates ; the azygous plate palseontologically by the right posterior radial and anal plate, the other in the growing animal over the whole surface.
composed of single quadrangular joints and destitute of pinnules ; the ventral grooves lined by alternate plates.
Form of the anus, ventral covering and length of arms unknown.
Remarks.
In our analysis, we have taken the absence of the right posterior radial to be a fixed character.
It is, however, possible that this plate was exceptionally undeveloped in the t^-pe specimen, and in this case Baerocrinus Ungerni^ the only known species of the genus, must be placed under Hoplocrinus.
18fi4.
Baerocrinus Ungerni Volborth, Bull, de I'Acad.
des Sci.
de St. Petersburg of 1865, tome viii, p. 178, with plate (adv.
sheet), November, 1864, p. :i7.
Eiehwaid, 1859, described and figured under the name of Homocr.
dipentas Lethieca Ross., v, p. 183; and 1865, Bull, de Moscou, iii, p. 160.
Volborth, 1865, Baerocr.
Ungerni, Bull, de Moscou, iv, p. 442.
Eiehwaid, 1866, Homocr.
dipentas, Bull, de Moscou, i, pp.
149-161, PI.
8, fig.
h. Grevingk, 1867, Baerocr.
Ungerni, Ueber Hoplocr.
dipentas and Baerocr.
Ungerni, with plate; also Arch.
f. Naturk.
Liv.
Ehst.
and Kurlands, Ser.
I, vol.
iv, p. 110.
Schmidt, 1874, Hybocrinus dipentas, Memoires de I'Acad.
Imp.
des Sci.
de St.
Petersb., Ser.
vii, tome xxi.
No.
11, p. .3, PI.
1, Figs.
1-2.
P. Herb.
Carpenter, 1882, Baerocr.
Ungerni, Quart.
Jour.
Geol.
See.
London (August), pp.
298-312.
W. and Sp., 1883, Baerocr.
Ungerni, Amer.
Jour.
Sci., vol.
xxvi, November, p. 365.
Brandschiefer, Lower Silurian.
Erras, Kussia.
HOPLOCRINUS Grevingk.
1867.
Grevingk, XJehev Hoplocr.
dipentas a,nd Baerocr.
Ungerni, p. 9, 1867.
Greviogk, Arch.
f. Naturk.
Liev.-Ehst.
und Kurlands, Ser.
I, vol.
iv, p. 110.
1883.
W. and Sp., Anier.
Jour.
Sci., vol.
xxvi, November, p. 365.
Syn.
Apiocrinus, 1843, Leuchtenberg ; 1856, Eiehwaid.
Ilomocrinus, 1859, ^ichw&ld.Eybocrinus, 1864, Volborth ; 1874, F. Schmidt ; 1879, Zittel ; 1882, Carpenter.
Volborth, F. Schmidt, Zittel and Carpenter have made Hoplocrinus a S3'nonym of Hybocrinus, although they admit that the two forms differ in the construction of their azj'gous side.
We have heretofore directed attention to the fact that the differences in the number and arrangement of the azygous and anal plates have been generall}^ regarded as good characters for distinguishing genera, and especially among the Cyathocrinidde and allied families in which those plates frequently form the only means for generic separation.
That the one azygous plate in Hoplocrinus is equivalent to the two in Hybocrinus^ which we have fully admitted, does not warrant an exception in this case, as the differences in the arrangement of the respective plates are evidently the result of modifications from one to another.
We, therefore, accept Grevingk's genus, and give the following .
Generic Diagnosis.
General form pja-iform, more protuberant upon the azygous side.
Calj^x composed of five basals, four large radials, and a large azygous plate.
The latter with its left side extending to the upper margins of the four large radials, its sloping right side supporting the fifth radial, which is small and triangular, and, taken jointly with the azygous piece as one plate, the two resemble in form the four large radials, only that the arm-facet is pushed to one side.
Basals large, pentagonal, nearly equal in size.
Four of the radials pentagonal, the smaller one subtriangular, resting upon the right sloping upper side of the azygous plate, which is irregularly pentagonal.
Arm-facets occupying scarcely one-third of the width of the radials.
Arms simple, without pinnules ; composed of quadrangular joints, arranged parallel to each other.
Column cylindrical.
The onl}^ known species is : 1843.
Hoplocrinus dipentas Leuchtenberg (Apiocrinus dipei.tas), Buschreibung neuer Thierreste d. Urwelt von Zarskoje.
Selo, yi.
17, Tab.
ii, figs.
9-10; also Eichwald, 1856, Bull, de Moscow, i, p. 115.
Homocrinus dipentas, 1859, Eichwald, Leth.
Ross., v, p. 583, Tab.
31, figs, a-c (excl.
specimen from Erras).
Hybocrinus dipentas, 1864, Volborth, Bull.
d. I'Acad.
de.
St.
Petersb., Tome viii, p. 178.
Homocrinus dipentas, 1865, Eichw., Bull.
d. Moscow, No.
ill, p. 159.
Hybocrinus dipentas, 1S65, Volborth, Bull, de Mosc, No.
iv, p. 443.
Homocrinus dipentas, 1866, Eichwald, Bull, de Moscow, No.
1, pp.
149-161, Tab.
8, figs.
2, 3, 4.
Hoplocr.
dipentas, 1867, Grevingk, Tiber, Hoplocr.
dipentas and Baerocr.
Ungerni, p. 10, figs.
1 a-f; also Arch, fiir Naturk.
Liv.
Ehst.
uuJ Kurlauds (Ser.
i), Vol.
iv, p. 110.
Hybocrinus dipentas, 1884, Schmidt, Memoires do I'Acad.
Imp.
des Sci.
de St.
Petersb., Tome xxi, No.
11, p. 3, PI.
i, figs.
4, 5, 6 ; also Carpenter, 1882, Quart.
Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
London (August), pp.
298-312.
Hoplocr.
dipentas, 1883, W. and Sp., Amer.
Journ.
Sci., Vol.
.\xvi (November), p. 365.
Vaginaten Kalk., Low.
Silur.
Pulkowa, Russia.
HYBOCRINUS Billings.
1857.
E. Billings, Geol.
Surv.
Can.
for 1853-56 (Rep. of Progr.
), p. 275.
1859.
E. Billings, Geol.
Surv., Decade iv, p. 23.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Palieont., i, p. 350.
1879.
W. and Sp., Rev.
of the Palaeocr., i, p. 74.
1880.
Wetherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(July).
1882.
Carpenter, Quart.
Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
London (Aug.), pp.
298-312.
1883.
W. and Sp., Amer.
Journ.
Sci., Vol.
xxvi, p. 365.
When we defined Hybocrinus., Rev., Pt.
i, p. 74, we regarded it as synonymous with Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus, wliich, we have since shown, are generically distinct.
However, in our late paper in the Amer.
Journal we made some remarks upon the azygous side, which must be modified.
We asserted that the upper end of the anal plate possessed a peculiar crenulated surface, a structure which Wetherby had previously described, and which we thought we had observed also in some of his specimens.
The fact that the so-called " crenulation " was visible, more or less, in every specimen which Wetherby had sent us for comparison, led us to believe that it was an organic structure, probably of a similar nature as the pectinated rhombs of the Cystidea.
We are now satisfied that we had not sufficiently taken into consideration the peculiar state of preservation of Wetherby's specimens, which are not only highly silicified, but the surface of the plates is badly weathered, and more or less destroyed.
Through the kindness and liberality of Mr. Walter Billings we are now enabled to give a more satisfactory interpretation of these parts.
On receiving our paper he promptly informed us that in the Canadian species of Eybocriniis the azygous plate was not crenulated, but crowded by numerous, very small pieces, forming a short pyramid.
He accompanied his description with good figures, and offered us his specimens for examination.
In these we found, resting upon the upper side of the anal plates, several rows of minute subquadrangular pieces, about six to the width of the plate, which together form a tumular protuberance without any visible opening.
There appear, however, minute pores along the sutures, and it is evident that the protuberance represents a ventral sac, reduced to its minimum size.
The crenulated appearance in Wetherby's specimens is evidently the result of weathering, the apparent grooves representing the sutures between the small plates.
A similar short protuberance has been observed in Eybocystites, and in all probability was present in the two other genera.
No new species of this genus have been described since our first discussion.
We found several specimens in the Trenton limestone, near Knoxville, Tennessee, but none of them perfect enougli for specific identification.
HYBOCYSTITES AVetherby.
(Revised by W. and Sp.)
1880.
Wetherby, Cincin.
Joum.
Nat.
Hist.
(July).
1882.
P. Herb.
Carpenter, Quart.
Joum.
Geol.
Soc.
London, pp.
298-312.
Hxjhocystites combines, in a remarkable degree, some of the characters of Palaeocrinoidea, Cystidea and Blastoidea.
Wetherby describes it as a Cystid, Carpenter was more inclined to place it with the Blastoids ; while we take it to be a Palseocrinoid of low organization.
There arie several points in Wetherby's description with which we cannot agree.
He describes the mouth or ambulacral orifice as situated nearly centrally upon the upper surface.
We had several of Wetherby's best specimens for comparison, but were unable to observe in any of them an external oral orifice, and doubt if such an orifice existed in this Lower Silurian genus " upon the surface."
Neither can it be ascertained from tiie specimens whether there were proximals surrounding the oral plate.
Wetherby further speaks of " a valvular anal opening, placed between the upper azj^gous plate and the mouth," and he mentions " a proboscis or ventral sac " which was said to be " indicated by the presence of the upper azygous plate."
If it is meant that the so-called " valvular opening " is separated from the ventral sac, and we infer it from fig.
1 on Plate 5, which shows an irregular break upon the ventral surface in the direction to which he alludes, he is certainly in error.
Even if an opening did exist, we doubt if he could have observed small, valvular pieces in specimens in which even the larger ventral plates cannot be distinguished.
If he means that the anal opening is connected with the ventral sac, placed along its inner or ventral side, we can partly agree with him.
Wetherby described the genus as having in three of its rays arms like those of the Crinoidea, in the other two raj^s appressed ambulacra, such as occur in the Cystidea.
He does not say anything about the length of the three arms, leaving it in doubt, whether he took the three projections to be only the stumps of the arms, or as representing their full length.
He only mentions that the arms are composed of a single row of plates, that they are very deeply excavated at the inner side by the ambulacral furrows, and that the latter are covered by a closel}^ interlocking series of small plates, having the same arrangement as those of the two appressed ambulacra.
He mentions further a more or less obscure furrow upon the outer surface, " of which nothing further is known."
Carpenter, in his paper on Hybocrinus and Hyhocystites^ called attention to the fact, that in Wetherby's figures, and in the specimens which he had examined himself, only one or two so-called arm joints were shown, that from appearances there had been no others, and that these formed, in all probability, " merely upward prolongations of the radials."
He states further that the " more or less obscure furrow," seen by Wetherby upon the outer surface of each arm, was in reality a recurrent ambulacrum, and that in his opinion the relations of Hyhocystites are rather with the Blastoids and " Crinoids than with the Cystids."
Upon the latter point we cannot agree with him, although we admit that there are recurrent ambulacra in all five rays.
We think, like Wetherby, that the ambulacra resemble decidedly those of the Cystids, and not those of the Blastoids.
Hyhocystites evidently had no hydrospires and no hj'drospire pores, and the ambulacra, contrary to any of the Blastoids, extend beyond the radials down into the basals.
Neither has it calicine pores, nor pectinated rhombs, and hence cannot be a Cystid, even if it has appressed ambulacra, which, we think, take the place of true arms.
Among the specimens from the Canada Survey Museum, which we had the good fortune to examine through the kindness of Prof. Whiteaves, we examined the type of Lecanocrinus elegans Billings ( Taxocrinus elegans W. and Sp.
), one of the earliest of all known Crinoids, and which seems to be destined to throw light upon the peculiar ambulacra of Hyhocystites.
This beautiful and wellpreserved specimen has upon the outer or dorsal surface of its free arms, upon each one of them, from their tips as far down as the top of the secondary radials, in addition to their regular ventral farrows a recurrent dorsal furrow, such as is found in Hyhocystites upon the calyx, and dorsally and ventrally upon the two arm joints.
These dorsal furrows are indistinctly represented by Billings in Decade iv, PI.
4, fig.
4 a, although in the specimen they are well defined, and it appears as if they had been lined by a double series of alternating plates.
Such dorsal furrows have since been identified also in the tj^pe of Taxocrinus Isevis by Walter R. Billings.
That these furrows are continued from the ventral side, and as such form a part of the ambulacra, cannot be doubted, and is further proven by the fact that the furrows diminish in width as they descend the surface of the arms.
In these species the regular furrows of the arms probably were not sufficient to supply the animal.
This was certainly the case in Hyhocystites, which in two of its ra3^s has no brachial appendages whatever, and these consist in the three other rays of but a few joints, the ambulacra resting almost exclusively against the dorsal side of the calyx.
Eybocystites is one of the earliest and lowest forms of the Palseocrinoidea ; it may be regarded as a permanent larval form of Hybocrinus, which had no arms, but in their place food grooves' upon the dorsal side of the calyx.
It is interesting that in this case as in that of Baerocrinus, which has similar relations to Hoplocrinus as this has to Hybocrinus, three of the rays are somewhat higher developed than the two others.
We propose the following : Revised Generic Diagnosis.
Eybocystites agrees with Hybocrinus in its general form, the arrangement and proportions of the plates in the calyx, in the ventral covering, and in the form and size of the ventral sac, but differs from that genus essentially in the arm structure.
It has no underbasals ; five large subequal basals, five radials, one of them much smaller and resting upon the right sloping upper side of the large azygous plate.
The latter supporting at its left sloping side an anal plate, in form resembling the adjoining small radial.
Arms rudimentary, of the most primitive kind, restricted to the two posterior raj's and the anterior one.
They consist, so far as known, of two quadrangular joints, which are united with the radials by close suture.
The joints are provided with an ambulacral furrow, which enters the calyx apparently at the top of the radials as in Hoplocrinus.
This furrow passes from the ventral side of the two arm joints, over the top of the upper one, and follows the dorsal side of the plates until reaching the calyx, whence it extends upon the surface of the radials to the basals, either entering them or terminating close to the basi-radial suture or along the face of the large azygous plate.
The two antero-lateral rays have no arm plates whatever, but each is provided with an ambulacral furrow, passing out from near the top of the radials, traversing these plates, and entering the basals.
There is considerable irregularit}^ in their position and length, but as a rule these latter furrows enter deeper into the basals than those of the three other rays.
The furrows are provided with two rows of side pieces which are arranged in the usual way.
Ventral sac short, as in Hybocrinus^ provided along its ventral gide with a small anal opening.
Column circular, small.
The only known species is : 1880.
Hybocystites problematicus Wetherby, Cincin.
Joum.
Nat.
Hist.
(July).
P. Herb.
Carpenter, 1882, Quart.
Journ.
Gcol.
Soc.
London (Aug.).
Trenton gr.
Mercer Co., Ky. Family XVIII.
HETEROCEINIDJE Zittel.
(Emend.
W. and Sp.)
Zittel and S. A. Miller included among tlie Heterocrinidse the genera GrapMocrimis and Erisocrinns, which both have iinderbasals, and which differ essentially in the plates of the azygous side.
We place in this family only Heterocrinus, locrinus and our new arenera Stenocrinus and Ohiocrinus.
The Heterocrinidae differ from the Cyathocrinidae and Poteriocrinidae in the absence of underbasals, in the arm structure, and the arrangement of their azygous plates.
In 1866, Hall thought he observed in Heterocrinus two rings of five pieces beneath the radials, and he adopted the term basals for those of the proximal ring, and that of subradials for those of the succeeding one.
Afterwards, it was proved by Meek, Ohio Paleont., i, p. 2, that the so-called " basals " proximal ring were not plates of the calj'x but parts of the column.
He described the stem to be divided longitudinally, and the so-called " basals," which in their vertical range were said to correspond with the five segments of the column, as constituting the imperfectly developed uppermost stem joint.
Meek proposed for these plates the name " subbasals," and called those of the next ring basals, while we used on Pt.
I of the Revision the terms underbasals and basals, respectively, as we took all of them to be integral parts of the calyx.
We have lately given this subject careful consideration, and found by grinding the column in various species, that important differences exist among the species originally referred to this genus.
We found that most of them have a pentapartite column, of which the five sections alternate with the basals without forming a part of the calyx, but that the column of Heterocrinus simplex^ Hall's typical species, is tripartite, composed of three equal sections.
We have elsewhere shown that whenever the column is divided, its sections alternate with the proximal ring of plates in the calyx.
They are placed interradially when those plates are underbasals, radially when thej' are basals, and as they have in Heterocrinus and allied genera a radial position, we may assert that these genera had no underbasals.
The Heterocrinidae occupj'^, owing to the absence of underbasals, relatively, the same position toward the C^^athocrinidse and Poteriocrinidae as the Actinocrinidse and Platycrinidse hold toward the Rhodocrinidse.
They agree with the Cyathocrinidse and Poteriocrinidae in having the azygous interradius extended into a porous ventral sac.
The arms consist of single joints, are comparatively strong, and either bifurcate or remain simple from above the brachials.
The pinnules are given off not from alternate joints, but alternately from each second, third or fourth joint.
The}are heavy and long, and sometimes bifurcate near their tips.
In the typical form of Eeterocrinus alwa3S two joints are connected b}^ syzygy, but we are unable to prove the syz_ygy in species referred by us to Stenocrinus and Ohiocrinus, unless by the pinnules which are given off regularly from .every third or fourth joint.
Most probably in locrinus and Stenocrinus the pinnules, and sometimes even their branches, were developed into regular arms, for the divisions follow each other alternately and at regular intervals, and the branches have no further pinnules.
The Heterocrinidae agree with the Hybocrinidae in the absence of underbasals, but differ essentially in the proportions of the calyx and ventral sac.
In the former the calyx is extremely small, the ventral tube large ; in the Hybocrinidae, on the contrary, the calyx comparatively large and the sac small.
They also differ in the structure of the arms, which in the Heterocrinidae are more highly developed.
The structure of the ventral side has been observed only in ^'Eeterocrinus juvenis,^^ where it is composed of five comparatively large plates, which enclose a small oral plate.
The ventral sac throughout the whole family is much stronger than in the Hybocrinidae, reaching sometimes the tips of the arms, and it is profusely perforated.
Position, Locality, etc.
Confined to the Lower Silurian of America.
The Heterocrinidae, although forming a neat little group by themselves, may be considered as the forerunners of several types which afterwards became distinct families.
Eeterocrinus foreshadows the Belemnocrinidae, locrinus the Poteriocrinidae, while Anomalocrinus is a prophetic type for the Cyathocrinidae.
I. HETEROCRINUS Hall (not Frass).
(Restricted and redefined by W. and Sp.)
1879.
Revision Palseocr., Pt.
i, p. 68.
1880.
Wetherby, Cincin.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist , July number.
1881.
Wetherby, ibid., April number.
EeterocrinuSj as defined by Hall and revised by Meek, contains so widely different species that a subdivision becomes necessary.
This has been conceded by previous writers.
Wetherby, in describing his H. Milleri, expressed the opinion that in the comparative size of the column, and in the plates of the calyx, that species differed sufficient!}'
from Heterocrinus simplex to be separated at least subgenerically.
And a year later, he directed attention to his E. Vaupeli, which he thought to be very distinct in the structure of its arms.
H. Vaupeli, if it is a good species, which we doubt, agrees in its arms and pinnules closely with H. constrictus and IT.
laxus, with either of which it may be identical, but not with H. simplex, as suggested by S. A. Miller.
The species heretofore referred to Heterocrinus vary in the composition of their radials, in the structure of arms and pinnules, and in the column.
Heterocrinus simplex, Hall's type, has five basals of varying form, owing to irregularities in the radials.
The radials in two of the rays consist of a large single plate, two others are divided into two sections, and the fifth one rests upon the azygous plate, which agrees in size with the lower half of the compound radials.
The compound i^lates consist of two pieces each, which together, agree closel}in form and size with the two single plates.
The brachials are large ; they consist of two nearly equal plates, united by syzj^gy, and support ten heavy, simple arms.
The arms, to their full length, are composed of syzygial joints, which, as we think, were connected by suture and not by articulation.
The epizygal or pinnule-bearing pieces are slightly wedge-shaped, and alternate with one another; the lower or h3'pozygal ones rhomboidal, and their upper and lower sides are parallel.
Pinnules stout and comparatively long.
All other species heretofore referred to this genus, with the exception of ^.
canadensis, which may be identical with H. simplex, have a somewhat different arm structure.
Not only are the pinnules given off at greater intervals, but they attain the size and form of arms or armlets, which sometimes branch again, and extend to the general height of the primary arms.
The latter agree also in having a stricth' pentagonal and pentapartite column, contrary to H. simplex^ in which the column is stouter, almost circular, and regularly tripartite.
The species with a quinque-partite column are divisible again into two groups, the one with a straight, comparatively small ventral tube, the other in which the tube is thread-like, convoluted, and even in its coiled state extending beyond the limits of the arms.
We hold these differences important enough to malvc them the basis for another separation, proposing for the latter the genus OhiociHnus, with H. laxus Hall = Ohiocrinus laxus as type, and for the other the genus Stenocrinus with H. heterodachjlus JisiW ^= Stenocrinus heterodactylus as type.
Heterocrinus inaequalis and H. arficulosus Billings have been referred by us to Calceocrinus ; H. crassiis and sitbcrassus to locrinus.
The genus Heterocrinus thus restricted may be defined as follows : Revised Diagnosis.
Calyx small ; subcylindrical ; tapering but slightl}' from the column upwards.
Basals five, more or less unequal, without underbasals ; the socalled subbasals of Meek representing the upper stem joint.
Radials very irregular, and varying among the rays in number as well as in size.
There are two segments in the two anterolateral rays, while the three remaining rays have but one, this, however, nearly as large as the two in the other rays.
The two plates at the right postero-lateral side consist of the az3gous piece the lower one and of the radial, which upon its upper side supports the brachials, giving off laterally a small ventral tube.
Arms ten, composed of single joints, alternately united bv syz3^gy, with strong pinnules from every second joint.
Column tripartite, almost circular ; axial canal large, pentalobate, the lobes directed interradially.
Locality.^ Position^ etc.
Trenton and Hudson River group of America, 1859.
Heterocrinus canadensis Billings, Geol.
Rep.
Can., Decade iv, p. 48, PI.
4, fig.
5.
-.-Trenton limest.
Ottawa and Montreal, Canada.
184;i. H. simplex Hall, Geol.
Repr.
N. York,' vol.
i, p. 280, PI.
76, figs.
2a-d; also Geol.
Surv.
Ohio, Paleont.
i, p. 7, PI.
1, figs.
4 a-c, 5 a-b, 6 a-b.
Hudson River gr, Cincinnati, Ohio.
*1S7;'.
H. grandis Meek, described as H. simplex var.
grandis, Geol.
Surv.
Ohio, Paleont.
i, p. 9, PI.
1, fig.
6, and figured by Hall as H. simplex in the 24th Rep. N. Y.
State Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
PI.
.3, fig.
11.
Hudson River gr.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
H. grandis occurs at a higher horizon, is more robust and has shorter arm joints than H, simplex.
STENOCRINUS, nov. gen. (Syn.
Heterocrinus in part).
{arci'6rT, nari'ow ; Kpivov, a lily).
Generic Diagnosis.
General form subcylindrical ; cal3x small; arms long.
Basals five ; of a more regular form than in Heterocrinus, angular at their superior margins.
They form a cup, which spreads but little from the column upwards.
Radials irregular, consisting of one or two plates ; two of the rays sometimes three being composed of two segments each, the others of only one.
The single plates are almost as large as any of the compound ones.
Only four of the radials supported upon the basals ; the fifth one smaller, resting upon the truncate upper side of the azj-gous plate, and occupying toward the latter a similar position as the two sections of the compound radials toward each other.
The smaller radial is transversely pentagonal, and resembles in outline a bifurcating plate.
It supports upon its sloping right side the brachials ; toward the left the ventral sac as in locrinus.
Brachials generally four to each ray, the upper one axillary, and supporting the two main arms, which sometimes branch again, and give off at regular intervals, from alternate sides, strong, arm-like pinnules.
All arm joints which have no pinnules are strictly quadrangular, while the pinnulebearing joints have almost the form of bifurcating plates.
Axygous plate pentagonal, shorter than adjoining radials.
Ventral tube, near the base composed of qnadrangular, heavy plates, generally longer and narrower than the brachials.
The structure of the tube in its upper portions not known.
The plates of the ventral side have been observed only in H.juvenis, in which they are composed of five comparatively larga interradial pieces, enclosing a small oral plate as in Haplocrinus.
Column large, pentagonal, pentapartite, the sutures directed interradially, giving to the segments a radial position.
Axial canal large, pentagonal ; angles interradial.^ Geological Position^ etc.
Stenocrinus is known only from the Silurian of America.
We refer to Stenocrinus the following species, all previously 1 The columnar canal of Stenocrinus is correctly represented in fig.
12 of PI.
vi, not, however, in fig.
13, in wliich the rays should be directed interradially.
described under HeterocrinuSj and noted under that genus in Rev.
I, p. 70 : *Stenocrinus heterodactylus, the U'pe of the genus, and its variety prophiqnut ; *S. exilis Hall (not Meek): 'S.
juvenis; S, Milleri, and perhaps Heterocrinus tenuis Billings.
To these we add : *1883.
Stenocr.
bellvillensis (W. R. Billings), Heterocr.
bellvillensis, Ottawa Field Naturalist's Club.
Trans.
No.
4, p. 49 with plate.
Trenton liniest.
Bellville, Ont.
*(?)1879.
S. genioulatus (Ulrich), Heterocr.
geniculatus, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(April), PI.
7, fig.
V^.
Utiea Shale.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
This species differs too much from the other species to be left under Stenocrinus, but the only specimen which we examined was not sufficiently perfect to warrant a satisfactory generic description.
*1882.
S. pentagonus (Ulrich), Heterocr.
pentagonus, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., p. 176, Pi.
5, figs.
10, 10((.
Hudson River gr.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
OHIOCRINUS, nov. gen. (Heterocrimis Hall, in part.)
This form is closely allied to Stenocrinus^ but differs from that in two points : the form of its arm appendages, and in the construction of its ventral sac.
The plates of the calyx are arranged as in Stenocrinus, and also the column is strong, pentangular and pentapartite.
The arms, which are ten, do not bifurcate, and are provided with stout pinnules, given off alternately from every fourth or fifth plate.
The pinnules are long, bifurcating, and extend to the tips of the arms.
The ventral tube rests upon the left sloping side of the right posterior radial; it ascends spirally, and in such a manner that adjoining convolutions touch each other, being perhaps suturally connected.
It is composed of numerous hexagonal pieces, arranged alternately, and in longitudinal rows.
Column strong ; indistinctly pentangular ; pentapartite.
The older stem joints are rather long pieces which have a well-marked pentapetaloid concavity upon their articular faces.
The j^ounger joints consist of five small convex leaflets, disconnected laterally, which fill the concavity of the older joints, exposing to view along the lateral face of the column a small trigonal piece.
A similar, if not the same, columnar structure is found in Stenocrinus.^ ' Ohiocrinus resembles Stenocrinus very closely, and can only be upheld by the form of the ventral tube.
We never saw the appendage of Stenocrinus, but Mr. S. A. Miller claims it to be distinct, and this induced us to make the separation.
Geological Position, etc Restricted to the Lower Silurian of America.
We place in this genus the following species : *iS(i. Ohiocrinus constrictus (Hall), Heterocrinus constrictus, 24th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., ]>.
210; also Geol.
Surv.
Ohio, Paleont., vol.
i, p. 3, PI.
i, figs.
10 a h; W. k Sp., Rev.
I, p. 15.
Hudson River gr.
Cincinnati, (Ihio.
I8t5().
0. laxus (Hall).
Type of the genus.
Heterocrinus laxus, 24th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 211, pi.
5, fig.
15; also Greol.
Suiv.
Ohio, Paleont., vol.
i, p. 14.
PI.
i, figs.
8 h.\N.
& Sp., Rev., I, p. 70.
Hudson River gr, Cincinnati, Ohio.
*1882.
0.
Gehanus (ririch), Heterocr.
(locrinus) oehanus, Journ.
Cincin.
Hoc.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
v, p. 175, PI.
5, fig.
9.
S. A. Miller, 1883, Heterocr.
oehanus, Cat.
Amer.
PalaMiz.
Foss.
(Edit, ii), p. 283.
Hudson River gr.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
lOCRINUS Hall.
1879.
Revision of the Palseocr., Pt.
I, p. 70.
1882.
P. Herb.
Carpenter, Quart.
Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
London, p. 306.
1883.
W. & Sp., Amer.
Joiim.
Sl-i., vol.xxvi (Novbr.
), pp.
370, 370.
The genus locrinus must be slightly modified, as stated in our recent notes " on Hybocrinus, Baerocrinus and Hoplocrinus.^'' In that paper, to which we refer for further particulars, we gave at some length the reasons which impelled us to regard the large plate, which we had formerly called a radial, as representing the azj^gous plate, and the smaller pentangular plate above, as the right posterior radial.
Walcott discovered lately a new generic form,for which he proposed the name Merocrinus.
It agrees with locrinus in the structure of the azygous side, and would probably be identical with that genus if it had not well-developed underbasals.
That underbasals are entirely absent in locrinus is plainly shown by its strictly pentagonal column, in which the angles have a radial position.
Revised Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup broadly spreading and perfectly sj'mmetrical to the top of the second circlet of plates ; it is short, and resembles an inverted pentagonal pyramid with the five sides deeply concave.
Basals small, nearly equal.
Radials five, four of them of equal form and height, comparatively large, strong and pentagonal ; their upper sides truncated throughout their entire width for the reception of the brachials.
Adjoining these radials, in the same ring, is the azygous plate, which has not only the form but general appearance of the four radials.
It supports upon its truncate upper side the fifth radial, that of the right posterior my.
The latter, which resembles in form a large bifurcating plate, supports upon its right upper side the brachials, and toward the left the first plate of the anal tube, being thus a radial, but partW with interradial functions.
The radials in all five rays are followed by five to six brachials, the upper one bifurcating, the others quadrangular, all wider than long, and those of adjoining rays meeting laterall3^ Tiiese are succeeded by the regular arm plates.
Arms long, gradually tapering to the tips ; bifurcating at regular intervals, and most of their branches bifurcating once or twice again ; each division extending to the general height of the arms.
Arm joints quadrangular, resembling those of the brachials, but somewhat narrower.
The ventral sac, at its posterior side, consists of a single row of rather large and strong plates, extending up to the full length of the sac, and forming all the way up a keel-like projection.
In general appearance, these plates, which rest against the sloping side of a radial, resemble the brachials and arm plates, although they are somewhat higher and not as wide.
Both sides of the ridge-like projection are indented for the reception of other plates.
At each side there are two pieces connected to each median plate, one abutting against the middle part, and the other placed opposite the suture.
These plates are A^ery short and wide, longitudinally arranged ; they are curved so as to form a deep transverse groove, their lower sides turned up and forming a transverse ridge.
The plates do not meet horizontally, but have a narrow open space at the top of the ridge, which in perfect specimens is covered by a row of minute pieces, apparently with a pore or small opening at the place of juncture with the larger plates.
The sac is composed of five rows of these plates, which are connected laterally by a straight suture all the way up.
Column strong, sharply pentagonal, its angles in a line with the radial plates.
We add the following species to our former list: ISSy.
locrinus trentonensis Walcott, Adv.
sheets of 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 4, PI.
17, tigs.
7, 8.
Trenton limest.
Trenton Falls, N. Y.
Family XIX.
ANOMALOCRINIDJE W. and Sp.
ANOMALOCRINUS Meek and Worthen.
1879.
Revision Palseocr., Pt.
i, p. 72.
1879.
S. A. Miller, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc, Xat.
Hist.
(Decbr., ]).
G).
1882.
S. A. Miller, ibid.
(April, p. 14).
This senus differs from the Heterocrinidse in the form of the calyx, which is depressed and not obconical, and in the arrangement of the pinnules.
It agrees with them in the plates at the azygous side, which we misunderstood in our former description, .
and this renders a redescription necessary, which we substitute in place of our former one.
Bevised Diagnosis.
General form depressed, calj'x comparatively large, rather shallow, subglobose ; arrangement of plates extremely irregular, scarcel}' two plates being of equal size.
Basals five, small, subequal, parti}' hidden by the column.
Radials irregular, all differing in size and form ; simple or compound ; sometimes divided vertically.
The left antero-lateral radial is compound, composed of two pieces ; that of the opposite side and the anterior radial are simple.
The left postero-lateral radial is the largest plate in the calyx, and either simple or bisected verticall}^ composed of two nearly equal parts.
The lower segment of the left antero-lateral radial is subquadrangular, the angle along the basi-radial suture being so obtuse as to form almost a straight line ; upper side truncate and slightly convex.
The upper segment is irregularly hexagonal, truncate above and below, much wider at the lower than at the uj^per side, widest across the lateral angles.
The two together have almost the dimensions of the single radials, but, in place of being wider than high, they are higher than wide, with a narrow concavity for the reception of the brachials.
The fifth radial the right posterolateral one rests against the truncate ui:)per side of a large az3'gous plate, and as this stands in line with, and has nearlyform and proportions of the lower section of the compound radial, and the radial plate the form of its upper segment, the two appear in the specimen as if forming jointly another compound radial.
(See Diagr.
Rev.
i, PI.
ii).
There is also among the rays a great diversity in the number of brachials, and this gives to the specimen that abnormal, irregular outline which is so characteristic of the genus.
Some of the rays have two, others three brachials, while the right posterior ray has generally four or more.
Arms long ; bifurcating at regular intervals ; widely divergent, rather stout at their origin ; tapering upward.
They are composed of a succession of rather long, quadrangular pieces, interrupted only by the axillaries which are pentangular, and which divide the main arm, and each division of the arm, into two equal parts.
The pinnules are slender, composed of long pieces, given off from every arm joint, but at one side only in succession not alternately until the next bifurcation of the arm, when on both divisions they all change to the opposite side.
By this an-angement there are always 8 to 10 pinnules in succession, first on one side, then on the other.
The first pinnule occurs on the second arm plate, not on the first, but every succeeding plate is pinnulated with the exception of the bifurcating ones.
The proximal pinnule after each bifurcation is considerably heavier and longer, almost arm-like, and bifurcating, the others are simple.
The arm furrows are shallow but wide, only one side having sockets for the reception of pinnules.^ The ventral sac is tubular, and rests upon the left side of the posterior radial as in the Heterocrinidse.
The proximal plate of the tube is large, subquadrangular, and is succeeded by other apparently large pieces.
Of the plates at the ventral side little is known.
S. A. Miller mentions two rows of small pieces near the ventral tube, but, as nothing is known as to their arrangement, they may be covering plates.
Column very large, almost circular, pentapartite, highly ornamented ; central canal large, star-shaped, the projections located interradially.
The structure of the column along the axial canal resembles that of Barycrinus and Vasocrinus, with which Anomalocrinus agrees also in the form of the calyx.
Geological Position^ etc.
Lower Silurian of America.
The only known species are : Anomalocrinus caponi/ormis Lyon, and A. incurvus Meek and Worthen, which have been previously noted.
Family XX.
BELEMNOCRINID^ S. A. Miller.
S. A. Miller has proposed for the genus Belemnocrinus a separate family, in which we fully agree.
It cannot be placed in any of the other groups, without depriving them of their best distinctive characters.
It forms a link between Heterocrinidse 1 Our descriptions of arms and pinnules in this interesting genus were made from a most beautiful specimen in the collection of J. H. Harris, Esq., of Waynesville, O., who had the kindness to send it to us for description.
and Cyathocrinidae, resembling the former in the absence of underbasals and in the arm-structure, the Cyathocrinidae in the arrangement of plates at the azygous side and of the ventral tube.
As the most characteristic features we mention the extremely small visceral cavity, in which the genus resembles Apiocrinus of the Neocrinoidea ; the comparatively large size of the basals ; the absence of underbasals ; the position of the azygous plate in line with the five radials; the large porous ventral tube, and the condition of the pinnules, which are given off regularly at certain intervals, not alternately from every joint.
Belemnocrinus was referred by White to the Cyathocrinidae, and he described the calyx to be composed of three rings of plates.
We have shown in 187T that the part which he took to be the " basals " is the upper stem-joint, and that the dorsal cup consists of only two rings of plates.
We further directed attention to the affinities between Belemnocrinus and the recent genus Rhizocrinus, which had been pointed out also by Pourtales, in the Memoirs of the Museum of Comp.
Zoology, vol.
iv, No.
9, p. 29.
The construction of the dorsal cup in the two genera is very similar, however, in Bhizocrinus, the sutures between the basals are fused together; while in Belemnocrinus they are plainly visible, and the former has no anal plate and no ventral sac.
Belemnocrinus was placed by Zittel among the Poteriocrinidas, although it has neither the arm structure nor the pinnules of that family, nor the azygous plate, and not even underbasals.
The name Belemnocrinus was used in 1876 by Munier-Chalmes (Jour.
Conch., Ser.
3, vol.
xvi, p. 102) for certain basal plates, evidently of a Blastoid, and changed by Oehlert to Belocrinus, 1882 (Extr.
du Bull.
Soc.
Geol.
de France, Ser, 3, p. 362).
BELEMNOCRINUS White.
(PI.
5, figs.
10 and 11.)
1862.
White, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
ix, p. 14.
1866.
Meek and Worthen, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 251.
1868.
Meek and Worthen, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, iii, p. 463.
1877.
W. and Sp., Amer.
Jour.
Sci.
(April), p. 253.
1879.
Zittel, Handbuch der Palseont., i, p. 362.
(Not Belemnocrinus Mun.-Chalmes =^ Belocrinus Oehlert.)
Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup small, narrow, sometimes almost tubular.
10 Basals five, very large, long, narrow, of somewhat irregular shape, forming an ovoid to cylindrical cup.
The cup is nearl}^ solid, having only a small central canal, and a shallow subconical excavation at its upper end, the latter forming a part of the viscei'al cavity.
Radials five, always smaller than the basals, enclosing an anal plate.
They are subquadrangular, slightly excavated at their upper side, and support four (exceptionally five) brachials, of which the upper one is bifurcating and gives off the arms.
Arms two to each ray, simple throughout, composed of compound joints, with one or two syzygies in each joint ; the upper segment giving ofi" a strong pinnule.
The oblique upper faces of the epizjgal or pinnules-bearing joints are arranged alternately, and this gives to the arms a strongly waving, zigzag outline.
At the extremities of the arm the pinnules are generally given off from every joint.
Pinnules long, arm-like, bifurcating once or twice, like arms.
With the arms the pinnules also correspond in length, all of them extending to the same height.
Anal plate resting between two of the radials and upon one of the basals.
This plate, which resembles the radials in form, supports a large ventral sac, composed of numerous hexagonal plates, alternately arranged, with slit-like openings along their lateral edges, which meet with corresponding slits in the adjoining plates.
Other parts of the ventral side unknown.
Column with or without lateral cirrhi ; more or less sharply pentangular, the outer angles radial, the rays of the central canal and the columnar cirrhi directed interradially.
Geological Position^ etc.
Known only from the two divisions of the Burlington limestone.
1877.
Belemnocrinus florifer W. and Sp., Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
(Ser.
3), Vol.
xiii, p. 256.
Upper Burlington limestone.
Burlington, la.
1877.
B. Pourtalesi W. and Sp., Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
(Ser.
3), Vol.
xiii, p. 258.
Lower Burlington limest.
Burlington, Iowa.
1862.
B. typus White (type of the genus), Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
ix, p. 14.
"W. and Sp , 1877, Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
(Ser.
3), Vol.
xiii, p. 254.
Upper Burlington limest.
Burlington, Iowa.
1866.
B. Whitei Meek and Worthen, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 251 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, iii, p. 463, PI.
18, figs.
4 a, h, c. Lower Burlington limest.
BurlingtoD; Iowa.
(?)
HOLOCRINUS W. and Sp.
(iiXui solid, Kpifui/ a lily.)
The above name is proposed to include a species whicb was lately described from rather imperfect specimens by Mr. Picard, under the name of Encrinus Beyrichi, but which certainly is no Encrimis.
We entertain little doubt that the species must be referred to the Belemnocrinidse ; we are, however, not quite so sure that it is generically distinct from the typical form, which depends upon the presence or absence of the anal plate.
No anal plate has been described in this species, and it is more than probable that none was present.
It perhaps represents one of those transition forms, which in their earlier life were good Palaeocrinoids, but by resorption of the interradial plates attained, to some extent, the characteristics of the earlier Neocrinoidea.
Generic Diagnosis.^ Dorsal cup strictly pentahedral ; constricted above the basals.
Basals large, forming an almost solid subglobular body, without underbasals.
Radials very small, quadrangular, supporting three to four narrow brachials, the upper one bifurcating.
There are two arms to each ray which remain simple.
Arms thin, composed of short, cuneate joints, with rather stout pinnules.
Column pentangular, and, as in Belemnocrinus Jlorifer, provided with long cirrhi, given off at intervals in whorls from the nodal joints, and extending up, and partly covering, the calyx and the lower portions of the arms.
The only known species is : 1SS4.
Holocrinus Beyrichi (Picard), W. and Sp., Zeitschr.
d. Deutsch.
geolog.
Gesellsch., Jabrg.
1883.
Mufchelkalk.
Sondershausen, Germ.
Family XXI.
CYATHOCRINID.S1 Roemer.
(Emended Zittel, emended W. and Sp.)
a. Dendrocrinites.
MEROCRINUS Walcott.
1883.
Adv.
sheet 35th Rep. N. Y.
State Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 2.
In the arrangement of the plates at the azygous side and in the construction of its ventral tube, this genus has close affinities with the Heterocrinidse, but differs from them in having under^ Our diagnosis is made from the figure of Mr. Picard' s imperfect specimen.
basals.
In addition to Walcott's typical species, we refer to 3Ierocrinus: Dendrocrinus curtus Ulrich.
Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup very small ; short and extending laterall}^ but little beyond the periphery of the upper stem joint.
Underbasals five, comparatively large, seen distinctly in a side view.
Basals short, all hexagonal ; alternating with four of the radials and the az3'gous plate, which all are of similar form, pentangular, wider than long.
The four radials support upon their truncate upper face a row of brachials, the az3'gous plate from the same level the fifth radial.
The right posterior radial has the same form as the azj'gous plate, but, while the latter is angular below, the radial has an angular upper side, giving off toward the left the ventral tube, and toward the right a row of brachials.
There are generally six or more brachials to each ray, composed of short quadrangular pieces, except the upper which is axilla^3^ Arms long, bifurcating ; without pinnules ; tapering toward the tips ; composed of quadrangular joints.
The bifurcations take place at regular intervals, and both arms of the same division are of equal size.
Column round, very strong, composed of unusually narrow joints.
Locality^ Position, etc.
Lower Silurian of America.
*1879.
Merocrinus curtus (Ulrich), Dendrocrinus curtus, Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
ii (April), PI.
7, fig.
14.
Utica shale.
Cincin., 0.
1883.
M. corroboratus Waleott, Adv.
sheet 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 4, PI.
17, fig.
6.
Trenton limest.
Trenton Falls, N. Y.
1883.
M. typus Waleott, Ibid., p. 3, PI.
17, fig.
5.
Trenton limest.
Trenton Falls, N. Y. CARABOCRINUS E. Billings.
(Revised by W. and Sp.)
1856.
E. Billings, Rep. Geol.
Surv.
Canada, p. 275.
1859, E. Billings, Ibid., Decade iv, p. 30.
1879.
W. and Sp.
Revision I, p. 143.
1881.
Walter R. Billings, Trans.
Ottawa Field Natur.
Club, p. 34.
In Part I of this Revision we placed Garabocrinus among the doubtful genera.
It was founded by E. Billings upon certain peculiarities among plates of the azygous side, resembling otherwise closely Gyalhocrinus.
When Billings proposed the genus, the azygous side had been observed only in a single specimen, and as the plates were arranged very differentl}'' from those of other genera, we suspected that the type specimen was a malformed or recuperated Gyathocrinus.
This view, however, must be given up, since other specimens have been found which show the plates under similar conditions.
Mr. Walter R. Billings informed us, in 1880, of the discovery of two more specimens in which the azygous plates were arranged as in E. Billings' type.
These specimens were afterwards noticed by him in the Transactions of the Ottawa Field Naturalist's Club of 1881, p. 35.
Carabocrinus was described by E. Billings using our terminology to be constructed of five underbasals, four of them pentagonal, the fifth hexagonal ; five basals, three of them hexagonal, one heptagonal and one pentagonal, the latter smaller than the others ; of five radials ; three azygous plates, one of them supported upon the hexagonal underbasal, a second upon the small pentagonal basal, the third between two radials.
Consulting the generic diagram, Decade iv, p. 30, we find that the smull, pentagonal basal (subradial plate of Billings) has scarcely half the size of the other basals, and the first azygous plate is placed at its left side, contrary to all other Cyathocrinidte.
This structure seemed to us so improbable that before accepting it we applied to Prof. Whiteaves of the Canada Survey Museum for the type specimen.
We now found that in Billings' diagram the plate in question is represented considerably larger than it is in the specimen, the so-called " azygous plate," to the left of the former, smaller, that the basals at their lower sides form in the specimen a much more obtuse angle, almost a straight line, and that the underbasals are comparatively smaller.
From our diagram it will be seen, that the second or basal ring really consists of six plates, four of them equal, the fifth one nearly as high but somewhat narrower, the sixth subquadrangular, small, not more than half the size of the former.
That the laiter piece which is united with the az^-gous plate by a horizontal suture is a basal subradial of Billings seems to us exceedingly doubtful, the more as the adjoining plate meets all the requirements of a basal.
This plate, which Billings called the first azygous piece, and which we take to be the posterior basal in conformit}^ with other Cyathocrinidge, has an azygous plate at its right side, and this supports with its right upper sloping side a special anal plate.
The small plate within the basal ring, which is only known in this genus, is, we think, a supplementary azygous plate of no fundamental importance, a plate bearing to the regular azygous .plate similar relations as the small accessor}^ interradials in some specimens oi Aychaeocrinus sculjjtus to the regular interradials.
We offer the following : Revised Generic Diagnosis.
TJnderbasals five, of vai'iable form and size ; four of them quadrangular, but only three equal ; the fourth one, that facing the azygous side, narrower ; the fifth pentagonal, truncate above.
Carahocrinus is closely allied to Dendocriniis and Homocrinus, but differs from both in the number and arrangement of its azj^gous plates.
Basals five, four of them hexagonal ; the one toward the right of the azygous plates heptagonal ; that on the left side somewhat smaller, truncate below, and occupying the full width of the upper side of the pentagonal underbasal.
Radials heptagonal, the upper side excavated for the reception of the brachials, which occupj' about one-third the width of the plJite.
The brachials, so far as known, consist of two or sometimes three pieces, the upper one sharply wedgeform.
Arms, compared with the size of the calyx, remarkablj^ short ; composed of quadrangular joints with parallel sutures ; bifurcating; tapering gradually to their tips.
The branching is similar to that of Cyathocrinus, and the arms throughout, as in that genus, are devoid of pinnules.
Plates at the azygous side three.
A supplementary azygous plate rests between the basals and extends to half their height.
The regular azygous plate is placed between the upper lateral portions of the five basals, and upon the supplementary piece ; supporting with its left upper side the anal plate, with its right side the right postero-lateral radial.
The anal plate resembles the radials in form and proportion, but its upper face is irregularly convex, and is bordered by a row of small pieces which form a part of the ventral tube.
Column comparatively small, obscurely pentangular, with a large, sharply pentagonal canal.
The column is quinquepartite, the sutures arranged alternately with those of the underbasals.
Locality, Position, etc.
Known only from the Trenton limestone of Canada, but we found detached plates, apparentl}' of this genus, in rocks of the same age near Knoxville, Tonn.
The following species have been described : 1856.
Carabocrinus radiatus Billings.
Type of the genus, Geol.
Surv.
Canada, p. 276; also 1859, ibid.
i>ecaueiv, p. 30, PI.
2, figs.
.3 a-c ; also W. and Sp., Revision i, p. 144.
Trenton limest.
Ottawa, Can.
1859.
(?)
C. tuberculatus Billings, Geol.
Surv.
Can., Decade iv, p. 3.3, PI.
10, figs.
2 a-c. Hudson River.gr.
Island ofAnticosti.
1859.
C. Van Courtlandti Billings, Geol.
Surv.
Can., Decade iv, p. 32, PI.
2, fig.
4.
Trenton limest.
Township of McNab, Can.
EUSPIROCRINUS Angl., Rev.
I, p. 143.
AMPHERISTOCRINUS Hall.
1882, 11th Geol.
Rep. Indiana of 1881 by Collett, p. 278.
This is one of the few genera of the Cyatliocrinidae which have only three underbasals, and this distinguishes it readily from Homocriniis , with which it agrees in the plates of the azygous side.
Generic Diagnosis.
Underbasals three, two equal and with truncate upper sides ; the third one-half smaller, angular above.
Basals five ; two of them resting entirely upon the two large underbasals ; pentagonal ; the two alternating with them hexagonal ; the posterior one, which has a truncate upper side, heptagonal.
The latter is larger and supports toward the right a pentangular azygous plate ; at its truncate upper side a large anal piece ; along the left side a radial.
The azygous plate is followed b}^ the anal plate, which is laterally connected with the right posterior radial.
The radials are pentagonal, with a small semicircular excavation for the reception of the arms.
Onl}' one brachial is known, which is quadrangular and extremely small.
All other parts are unknown.
The only known species is : 1882.
Ampheristociinus typus Hall, Uth Ann.
Geol.
Rep. Indiana by Collett, p. 278, PI.
15, figs.
17-18.
Niagara gr.
AValdron, Indiana.
DENDROCRINUS Hall, Rev.
I, p. 75.
The following species must be added to our list : *1856.
Dendrocrinus angulatus (Billings), Palaeocrinus angulatus, Geol.
Surv.
Canada, p. 269: also Decade IV, PI.
3, figs.
6 A. Cyathocrinus angulatus, Rev.
I, p. 85.
Trenton limestone.
Ottawa, Canada.
In examining the tvpe-speciuien in the Canada Survey Museum, we found it to be a good Dendrocrinus.
Toward the right of the basals, underneath the posterolateral radial, it has a good-sized azygous plate, which at its left sloping upper side supports an anal piece, exactly as in Dendrocrinus.
The s[iecieg has a strong ventral tube, of which only the transverse section is seen, 1881.
D. erraticus S. A. Miller, Joum.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(December), 1881.
Hudson River group.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
1880.
D. navigiolum S. A. Miller, Joum.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(October), p. 4, PI.
7, figs.
5, 6 a. Utica slate.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
1883.
D. retractilis Walcott, 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Mas.
Nat.
Hist.
(Extr.
p. 5), PI.
17, fig.
4.
Trenton limest.
Trenton Falls, N. Y. HOMOCRINUS Hall, Rev.
I, p. 77.
This genus has been lately so often confounded with Poteriocrinus, that for better information, we point out their distinctive characters.
Homocrinus differs from Poteriocrinus in the more slender form of the calyx, in having no plates of the ventral tube within the line of the first radials, in being provided with horseshoe-shaped articular facets, pierced by a round dorsal canal, and in having at least three brachials.
Contraiy to Poteriocrinus^ the arms are not pinnulated, and they are composed of quadrangular joints with parallel lines of union.
Its relations are much closer with Parisocrinus^ which, however, has no separate dorsal canal, and the first plate of the tube rests within the calyx.
We add the following species : *1879.
Homocrinus ancilla (Hall), Dendrocrinus ancilla, Trans.
Albany Inst., vol.
X (Abstr.
p. 9); also 11th Geol.
Rep. Indiana by Collett, p. 271, PI.
15, fig.
19.
Niagara gr.
Waldron, Indiana.
*1858.
H. curtus (Miiller), Poteriocrinus curtus, Verb.
d. naturh.
Verein f. Rheinlande xii, p. 80, PI.
10, figs.
2-3 ; also Neue Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 230, PI.
2, fig.
3.
Schultze, 1866, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 46, PI.
5.
W. and Sp., Parisocrinus curtus, Rev.
1, p. 115.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
*1882.
H. davisanus (S. A. Miller), Poteriocrinus davisanus, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., p. 226, PI.
9, figs.
4, 4 a-b.
Upper Helderberg gr.
Deputy, Indiana.
*1882.
H. nettelrothanus (S. A. Miller), Peteriocrinus nettelrothanus, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., p. 227, PI.
9, figs.
5, 5 a.
Upper Helderberg gr.
Deputy, Indiana.
*1876.
H. nucleus (Hall), Dendrocrinus nucleus, 1st Edit.
28th Rep. N. Y. St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
PI.
15, figs.
7-9.
Cyathocrinus nucleus, 2d Edit, ibid., p. 136.
Niagara gr.
AValdron, Indiana.
The arrangement of the plates at the azygous interradius are not like in Cyathocrinus as Hall suggested, but exactly like in Homocrinus.
*1863.
H. polyxo (Hall), Cyathocrinus polyxo, New Sp.
Foss.
Niagara group, p. 5; 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist.
1st Edit., PI.
15, figs.
10-17.
Ibid.
2d Edit.
p. 135; also W. and Sp., Rev.
i, p. 87; 11th Rep. Indiana by Collett, 1882, p. 264, PI.
14, figs.
10-17.
Niagara gr.
Waldron, Indiana.
PARISOCEINUS W. and Sp., Rev.
i, p. 115.
Closely allied to Eomocrinus is Parisocrinus, which we made a subsection of Poteriocrinus.
In doing so, we were not aware that this form is devoid of pinnules.
In our descriptions we only pointed out the great resemblance which it has to Gyathocrimis, especially in the branching of the arms, but finding the azygous side constructed as in Poteriocrinus, we placed it with that genus.
More perfect specimens which have since been discovered leave not the least doubt that it is very distinct from Poteriocrinus J and a true Cyathocrinoid.
Revised Generic Diagnosis.
General form turbinate.
Underbasals large, equal.
Basals five, three of them hexagonal; the two connecting with the azygous side heptagonal.
The radials are rarely larger than the basals ; four of them are equal, the fifth one has an additional side for the reception of the lower plate of the ventral tube.
Articular face horseshoe-shaped, supporting a row of three brachials, of which the upper one is axillary.
Arms composed of long slender joints, branching like those of Gyathocrinus and without pinnules.
The azygous side is arranged as in Poteriocrinus, with three plates in the calyx.
Yentral tube long, cylindrical, composed of alternately arranged rows of hexagonal pieces, with a pore at each angle.
Column round.
Geological Position, etc.
Subcarboniferous.
America and England.
We place here Parisocrinus intermedius, P. nereus, P. perplexus, P. tenuibrachiatus, P. quinquangularis, P. radiatus and P. salignoideus ; but Poteriocrinus curtus, which we referred to it in Pt, I, p. 115, is a Eomocrinus.
b. Botryocrinites.
ATELESTOCRINUS, no v. gen. 'aTc\c(TTOs, incomplete ; Kplvov, a lily.
PI.
6, fig.
4, and PI.
9, fig.
4.
We have had, for several years, a very remarkable Crinoid from the Burlington limestone, which could not be placed in any of the established genera.
At first we took it to be an abnormal specimen, with only four radials, and a small non-arm-bearing plate at the anterior side, and therefore did not describe it.
It resembles Belemnocrinus in its general appearance, but differs in having underbasals, and euriousl}' enough, these have a similar cylindrical form, and are as solid as the basals in that interesting genus.
We have since obtained from the Burlington and Keokuk transition bed near Burlington, and from the lower part of the Keokuk limestone proper of Tennessee, two additional specimens, clearly of the same genus, but of a different species.
Both specimens show the same irregular structure, i. e., four arm-bearing radials, and in line with them a small azygous, non-arm-bearing plate, thus proving that the apparent irregularity is a persistent character.
Generic Diagnosis.
Form of calj^x elongate, bell-shaped, the sides concave, constricted along the suture between basals and underbasals.
Underbasals five, large, forming an almost solid ovo-cylindrical body, pierced onl}^ by a longitudinal canal.
Basals long and narrow, widening above, irregular in form ; three of them hexagonal, two heptagonal.
Radials four, of nearly equal size, with an obtuse facet covering the greater part of the width of the plate.
Anterior radial non-arm-bearing.
Like the regular radials, it alternates with the basals, has the same general height, but less than half their width.
Brachials from two to four, exceptionally five ; comparatively strong ; with parallel articular lines, except the upper one, which is axillary.
Main arms eight, which from every second joint, alternately, give off armlets, or arm-like pinnules of less than half the size of the main arms, but extending to the same height and branching.
The arm joints, from which the branches are given off, are formed almost like axillary plates, one side, however, being shorter and slightly more obtuse.
The alternate joints are quadrangular.
Whether these and the axillaries are united by sj^zygy, could not be ascertained from the specimens.
Azj^gous plate large, resting between the upper sloping sides of two basals, and against the right posterior radial.
It supports towards the left the anal plate, and at its truncate upper side the first plate of the tube.
Nothing is known of the ventral side.
Column obtusely pentangular, with a medium-sized central canal.
Attelesocrinus delicatus, nov. sp Calyx bell-sbapecl ; twice as high as wide, greatly constricted along the sutures between basals and underbasals.
Underbasals forming a comparatively long ovo-cjdindrical body.
Basal cup funnel-shaped, resting upon the underbasals as if proceeding from their inner cavity.
The basals are delicate plates, elongate, gradually increasing in width.
Arm-bearing radials wider than high ; each one supporting two brachials.
The latter fill nearly the entire width of the preceding plate, and are twice as wide as the true arm plates.
Anterior radial narrow, less than half the width of the arm-bearing radials.
Arms two to the ray, tapering gradually to their tips, where they become extremely delicate; they have a waving outline, are composed of long joints, and give off armlets alternately from every second plate.
All armlets extend to the tips of the arms, and branch once or twice.
Their size along the lower part of the arms is only half that of the main arms, but higher up they are of almost equal thickness.
Column obtusely pentangular.
Geological Position^ etc.
Lower Burlington limestone.
Burlington, Iowa.
Atelestocrinus robustus, nov.
sp., PI.
9, fig.
4.
Larger and much more robust than the preceding species ; less constricted between basals and underbasals ; the form of the latter, taken together, more oblate.
Basals twice as long as wide.
Arm-bearing radials heavy, wider than high ; the anterior radial less than one-third the size of the others, hexagonal.
Azygous side with four plates in the calyx, two of them constituting parts of the ventral tube ; alternately arranged.
Brachials four ; three of them quadrangular, the upper one axillarj^ ; all rather large, but decreasing in size upwards.
Arms long, comparativel}^ heavy at the base, but tapering rapidl}^ to the tips, where they become very delicate.
They are composed of quadrangular, rounded joints, with parallel sutures, giving off armlets alternately from every second joint.
The armlets are much thinner, and more pinnule-like than in A. delicatus, but extend like those to the height of the arms, and bifurcate in a similar manner.
Geological Position, etc.
Burlington and Keokuk Transition bed near Burlington, Iowa, and at the base of the Keokuk limestone, White's Creek Spring, near Nashville, Tennessee.
VASOCRINUS Lyon, Rev.
i, p. 97.
STREPTOCRINUS W. and Sp.
(TrpcTTTds, twisted ; Kpivov, a lily.
Ophiocrinus Angelin, 1878.
Rev.
i, p. 97.
The name Ophiocrinus is preoccupied by Salter, who proposed it in 1856 for a Rhodocrinoid from Southern Africa, which, however, is not properly defined.
Semper also used the name in 1868 for a Neocrinoid, and again Charlesworth, but without publishing the description.
The Swedish form, therefore, requires a new name, for which we adopt Streptocrinus, in allusion to the convoluted state of the ventral tube.
-'Streptocrinus crotalurus (Angelin), Ophiocrinus crotalurus, Iconogr.
Crin.
Suec, p. 24, PI.
4, figs.
8 a-c. Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden.
BOTRYOCRINUS Angelin, Rev.
I, p. 97.
SICYOCRINUS Angelin, Rev.
I, p. 99.
BARYCRINUS Wachsmuth, Rev.
I, p. 99.
The genus Barycrinus differs from other Cyathocrinidge in having a shallow cal3'x, constructed of heavy plates, arms massive, and composed of short joints.
These differences are so marked that we have strong doubts whether it ought to be placed in this famil3^ The diagram of Barycrinus^ PL I, fig.
3, in Part I of this Revision, is incorrect as to the axial canal, which should have shown the processes radzai, instead of interradial.
On page 101, of Part I, we were made to say that the sections of the column of Barycrinus are radial and the sutures interradial, whereas it should be that the sections of the column are " interradial and the sutures radial ; the opposite of Heterocrinus, in which they are interradial."
No new species have been described since our list, but Arachnocrinus bulbosus (Hall), W. and Sp., was referred by S. A. Miller erroneously to Barycrinus.
Cyathocrinus subtu^nidus M. and W., which we took to be a Barycrinus, must be changed back to Cyathocrinus.
The species is closely allied to Cyathocrinus barydactylus W. and Sp.
c. Cyathoerinites.
CYATHOCRINirS J. S. Miller, Rev.
I, p. 79.
Through the kindness of Prof. Whiteaves we had an opportunity to examine E. Billings' tj'^pe specimens of Palseocrinua in the Canada Surve}^ Museum.
The specimen of P. striatus, upon which the genus was proposed, is very imperfect, and may be a Garabocrinus, Dendrocrinus, or a new genus.
The construction at the ventral side, to which E. Billings attached so much weight, is that of the C_yathocrinidj3e generally.
The^' nearly all have ventrally five interradial plates resting against the radials, and alternate rows of covering plates.
Heretofore we have placed Palseocrinus angulatus Billings under Cyathocrinus, but we satisfied ourselves from the original specimen that it is a true Dendrocrinus.
Gyathocrinus fasciatus Hall, is a synonym of Macrostylocrinus Meeki ; Gyathocrinushamiltonen.ns Worthen, a s^monymof Gyathocrinus parvibrachiatus Hall.
G. nucleus and C. polyxo Hall are now referred by us to Homocr inus ; G. waldronensis to Macrostylocrinus.
Gyathocrinus graphicus Blgshy (not Hall) is Platycrinus graphicus.
1879.
(?)
Gyathocrinus Harris!
S. A. Miller, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
ii, PL 13, fig.
2.
Keokuk liinest.
Crawfordsville, Ind.
We leave this species for the present under Gyathocrinus, although aware that it represents a very different generic form.
In some respects the species closely resembles Belemnocrinus Jlorifer, and might almost be considered identical with it, if the column did not indicate a dicyclic base.
The column of both species is sharply pentagonal, and beautifully fringed with whorls of cirrhi, but while in Belemnocrinus Jiorifer the outer anoles of the column are directed radially, the cirrhi interradially, the very opposite is the case in Gyathocrinus (?)
Harrisi.
Neither can the species be referred to our genus Atelestocrinus, as this is remarkable for its large underbasals, nor in fact to any other known to us, and we should make it the tj'pe of a new genus if the two specimens which we examined were more perfect.
The specimen in the collection of Mr. Harris, which he had the kindness to send us for examination, leaves us in doubt whether the so-called azygous plate of Miller does not represent the anterior radial.
Among the Fistulata the anterior ray very frequently supports a single arm, which either remains simple or branches on a level with the second bifurcation in the other rays, and this may be the case here.
Miller in describing the species, we think, had in mind the Silurian genus locrinus^ in which the plates of the ventral sac take the form of arm plates, but these are given off laterall^^ from the azygous plate and not, as it would be here, from the truncated upper side of the anal piece.
1869.
Cyatbocrinus inspiratus {'!)
Lyon, Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, vol.
xiii, p. 4.j7, PI.
27, fig.
k. Keokuk gr.
Crawfordsville, Ind.
The description is not snffioient for sjiecific identification.
1882.
C. marshallensis Worthen, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. .33, Geol.
Rep. 111., vol.
vii, p. 310, PI.
30, fig.
4.
Kinderhook gr.
Marshalltown, la.
(A connecting link with Parisocrinus.)
*1S44.
C. Milleri McCoy (Atocrinus Milleri), Synops.
Garb.
Foss.
Ireland, p. 123, PI.
25; F. Roemer, 1855, Leth.
Geogn.
(2d Ed.
), p. 246, PI.
4, fig.
12 ; Bronn's Klassen d. Thierreichs, PI.
28, fig.
6.
Subcarb.
Ireland.
(?)IS80.
C.
(?)
stillativus White, Proceed.
Nat.
Mus.
for 1879, p. 25S, PI.
1, figs.
9, 10; 12th Ann.
Rep. Terr, for 1878, by Hayden (Author's Ed., p. 125, PI.
36, figs.
3 a, b).
Carboniferous.
Collected 30 miles west of Humboldt, Kansas.
This is no Cyathocrinus ', it evidently belongs to the Poteriocrinidje, but the specimen is too imperfect to be referred properly.
*1865.
C. subtumidus Meek and Worthen.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 151 ; Barycrinus subumidus Meek and Worthen, 1868.
ibid., p. 340; also Geol.
Rep.
III., vol.
V, p. 487, PI.
13, fig.
3; W. and Sp.
; Barycrinus subtumidus, 1879, Rev.
i, p. 87.
Keokuk limest.
Green Co., 111., and White's Creek Springs, Tennessee.
1881.
C. Van Horni S. A. Miller, Journ.
Cinein.
Soe.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
iv (October), PI.
6, fig.
3.
Niagara gr.
Chicago, Illinois.
(?)
SPH^EROCRINUS Roemer.
In referring Sphserocrinus to the genus Cyathocrinus (Rev.
I, p. 83), we overlooked the fact that Roemer's type has separate dorsal canals piercing the radials.
Whether this character is sufficient for generic distinction is a question which has never been brought up for discussion.
It is in this regard worthy of notice that this structure occurs exclusively in species from the Silurian and Upper Devonian, never in the Carboniferous, neither in Cyathocrinus nor other genera.
Whether all species of Cyathocrinus from Gothland and Dudley possess this structure, cannot be ascertained from the figures, but if they do, it may form tlie basis of a separation which seems to us very desirable.
If the genus Sphserocrinus is accepted, it will probabl}' include not only Sphaerocrinus geometricus Goldfuss, Roemer's typical species, but many others.
ARACHNOCRINUS M. and W., Rev.
I, p. 92.
In our former list we erroneously placed Poteriocrinus |)mformis Roemer under Arachnocrinus.
From specimens which we obtained lately in western Tennessee, and in which the azygous side and also the brachials are preserved, we are convinced that it is a Lecanocrinus.
GISSOCRINUS Angelin, Rev.
I, p. 89.
ACHRADOCRINUS Sclmltze.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palaeont,, i, p. 364.
1866.
Schultze, Ecliin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 101.
Schultze in defining this genus thought it to be closely allied to Gasterocoma, and Zittel and de Loriol place it among the Gasterocomidoe.
In our opinion, the similarity between Gasterocoma and Achradocrinus is more superficial than real.
Gasterocoma has five underbasals, and the column in addition to the axial canal is provided with four peripheral vessels, which are altogether unrepresented in the other form.
The two agree only in the position of the anal aperture.
The affinities of Achradocrinus are much closer with Sphaerocrinus, from which it differs only, as far as known, in the position of the anal plate.
Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup deeply cup-shaped ; symmetry decidedly bilateral.
Underbasals five, equal, of medium size, extending beyond the column, and visible in a side view.
Basals five, four of them angular above, the posterior one truncate, and supporting an anal plate.
Radials all meeting laterally, three of them equal ; the two postero-lateral ones deeply excavated for the reception of the anal plate, which they inclose on three sides by meeting above.
The radials are slightly notched at their upper margin, and have upon the outer side of the plate a narrow, horseshoe-like articular facet, pierced by a small dorsal canal, which is located at some distance from the notch.
At the azj-gous side there is only an anal plate, which is subquadrangular, its lateral margins arched, its upper face narrower and excavated for the ventral sac, which is cylindrical and placed between this plate and the lateral extensions of adjoining radials.
The tube has a ventral position owing to the strongly inflected upper portions of the radials.
Arms unknown.
Column circular ; with a small central canal.
The only known species is : 1866.
Achradocrinus ventrosus Schultze, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 101, Pi.
12, fig.
6.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
CODIACRINUS Schultze.
18GG.
Schultze, Mouogr, Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 31.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Palseout., i, p. 364.
Godiacrinus is closely allied to Achradocrinus ; the anal plate, however, is here, we think, fully resorbed b}'^ the radials, and the basals consist only of three plates.
Generic Diagnosis.
Of small size ; in the form of a poppy-head, reversed boll-shaped, or subovoid.
Plates thin.
Symmetry strictly pentamerous.
Underbasals three, forming a pentagon; two of them larger and hexagonal, the third smaller and rhomboidal.
Basals equal, pentangular, Radials equal; all touching laterally; upper face concave, with a narrow semicircular lateral articular facet for the reception of the brachials, and with a separate dorsal canal.
There is no anal plate in the dorsal cup.
Nothing is known of the ventral side, nor of the arms.
The only known species is : 1866.
Godiacrinus granulatus Schultze, Monogr.
Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 31, PI.
.3, fig.
9.
Devonian.
Eifel, Germany.
LECYTHIOCRINUS White.
1880.
White, Proceed.
Nat.
Mus., p. 256.
1880.
White, 12th Ann.
Rep. Terr, for 1878 by Hayden, p. 122.
1880.
Worthen, Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 37.
1880.
Worthen, Illinois Geol.
Rep., vol.
vii, p. 317.
This name must not be confounded with Lecythocrinus^WaWQX^ which represents a yevy different generic form.
The adoption of such similar names, even if permitted by the generally accepted rules, should be avoided.
The species for which it was proposed agrees in the arrangement of its calyx plates with Godiacrinus, except the articular facet of the radials, which is wider, directed upwards (not obliquely as in that genus), and it has distinct ligamentous fossae, but apparently no central canal.
1882.
LecytMocrinus Adamsi Worthen, Bull.
I, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 37; also Geol.
Rep. 111., p. 817, PI.
30, fig.
8.
Coal measures.
Peoria Co., 111.
1880.
L. olliculaeformis White, Proc.
Nat.
Mus.
for 1879, p. 256, PI.
1, figs.
4, 5.
12th Ann.
Rep. Terr, by Hayden, for 1878, p. 12-1, PI.
35, figs.
2 a, 6.
Coal measures.
Near Humbold, Kansas.
Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sc .Philad^ 1886 .
Plate ^^-~;:.-...i;y>S.F.^.
AARON ON NEW PSOCIDAE I Proc.A.N.
S.Phnada.l886.
PL n. m !
15 17 Hartman on New Species of Parlula.
i I t Family XXII.
POTERIOCRINIDJE.
It has been stated that the distinction between Poteriocrinidse and Cyathocrinidae is based principally upon their different mode of articulation.
The articulation, however, in the Poteriocrinidse undergoes certain modifications, and toward the close of the Carboniferous even the calj'x begins to show signs of being capable of slight expansion, if not mobilit}^, the plates being frequently provided with a fossa along their margins ; while in others the plates are united by syzygy.
Those fossae which extend over the whole surface of the opposed faces not only occur between the radials, but extend in a vertical direction to the basi-radial suture.
That they lodged bundles of ligament is almost beyond doubt, and Dr. P. H. Carpenter, whom we consulted on this subject, regards this union as a suture, but "less close, with longer ligaments, and therefore more expansible and movable, than in an ordinary suture."
A syzygial union is found among the species which Trautschold referred to the genus Gromxjoci'inu:,^ and seems to extend in some of them even to the suture between basals and underbasals, the striation being plainly visible along the suture lines.
In some of these genera the articulation between brachials and arm plates is as highly differentiated as in most of the Neocrinoidea, and much more so than in some of them.
The progressive development in the mode of articulation that takes place from the earlier to the later Poteriocrinidae is, no doubt, of some classificatory value, but we have not been able, as yet, to separate them on this ground, as the respective parts are generally in an imperfect state of preservation, and there appear to be no other distinguishing characters.
Moreover, a comparison of the earlier Poteriocrinidae, such as Scytalocrinus, Scaphiocrinus, Pachylocrinus, Cteliocrinus and Graphiocrinus^ with the latter genera E upachycrimis, Zeacrinus^ Hydreionocrinus, Geriocrinus, Erisocrinus, and of the latter with Encrinus, shows that the two sections shade into one another by such easy gradations, that in many cases it is absolutely impossible to draw a dividing line.
The genera of the Poteriocrinidae are principall}^ based upon the arrangement of the plates at the az3^gous side, the form of the cal3'x, the proportionate size of the ventral sac, and the branching of the arms.
Some of the genera have a well-developed azygous plate, a special anal piece, and one of the plates support11 ing the ventral sac enclosed within the cal3^x.
Others, such as Graphiocrinus and Geriocrinus, have no azygous plate, but only an anal piece ; while in Erisocrinus^ Stemmatocrinus and Encrinus no such plate is found, either within the ring of radials or below.
In the same degree as palaeontologically the calyx grows more symmetrical, the ventral sac decreases in size, and probably disappeared entirely in Encrinus, which is closely allied to the Poteriocriuidse.
Along with these modifications, others are going on which take place in the arms.
Throughout every genus, a development goes on from the uuiserial to the biserial arm structure, a feature which has not been observed in anj^ other family of the Fistulata, and which has no parallel throughout the Neocrinoidea if we exclude Encrinus, which we regard as a somewhat higher developed Poteriocrinoid.
Encrinus^ especially, offers in its arm structure a very striking example.
Among its species are found arms in all stages of development, some having single quadrangular joints, others two rows closely arranged.
The same variations are found in the arms of EupachyciHnus, Geriocrinus and Erisocrinus ; while in the earlier Poteriocrinites the arms never pass beyond the interlocking stage.
That the biserial arm structure was developed from single cuneate joints, and not only palaeontologically, but also in the growing animal, we had op[)ortunity to observe in a very 3'oung Encrinus liliifortnis, in which the arms, to about two-thirds their height, are composed of single joints, which gradually become more cuneate, and toward the tips are interlocking.
This one case, we think, alone would be sufficient evidence to prove that the biserial arm structure is the higher form, if it was not confirmed by other specimens of this and other groups.
If Encrinus were a Neocrinoid, as supposed by Zittel, De Loriol and Carpenter, the Neocrinoidea would begin their existence with the highest differentiated arms known to us, and the arms of all other iSTeocrinoidea up to the Comatulffi of the present seas, would appear to have remained persistently in their larval state.
This does not seem to us to favor the idea, -of Encrinus being a Neocrinoid.
Comparing Erisocrinus with Encrinus^ the only noticeable difference in their fossil state is the presence of a single brachial in the former, and two in the latter.
To this P. H. Carpenter alluded (Chall.
Rep,, p. 154), admitting it to be "the only point of difference about which we are enabled to speak with certainty."
This character, however, is not restricted to Encrinus; we find it more or less among all Poteriocrinidffi, but exclusively there and in the Encrinidae.
The two brachials are alwa3'S joined by suture, not by articulation, and this is the case in Encrinus, in which the two pieces are united by s^'zj^gy and form actually one plate.
The compound brachial is scarcely more than a specific character, and hence has no value as a distinction between two orders.
Carpenter takes not only Encrinus, but also Erisocrinus and Stemmatocrinus to be Neocrinoidea, because they have no anal plate.
Anal plates, he states, " are absent in Erisocrinus as in Encrinus, and since a ventral tube or sac like that of Cyathocrinus is always found associated with a system of anal plates, the lowest of which is intercalated between two radials, it seems rash to postulate its presence in the symmetrical Erisocrinus.
''^ That our conclusions were not so " rash " as Carpenter suggested is emphatically proved by the fact that an anal plate has actually been discovered by Dr. White in Erisocrinus.
It is located above the radials, being enclosed among the interradial plates, where we should have expected it from analogy with other groups.
Anal plates are absent also in two genera of the Cyathocrinidse, in Godiacrinus Schultze, and Lecythiocrinus White, which both have a perfectly symmetrical dorsal cup.
But does that make them Neocrinoidea ?
What more do we know of the ventral structure of the Poteriocrinidse than of Encrinus and Erisocrinus?
If Encrinus is a Neocrinoid, why not all Poteriocrinidae ?
Nobody ever saw the ventral covering in any Poteriocrinoid we have only found the ventral sac.
Yet from analogy with Gyathocrinus and allied forms in which a vault has actually been observed, it was generally supposed that vault plates were present also in the Poteriocrinidse.
We think the width of the brachials, which in this family frequently occupy the entire width of the radials, gives a satisfactory explanation why the vault plates are not preserved in forms like these.
The plates either rested against the sloping edges of the radials as in Stemmatocrinus Trautscholdi, or only against their articular extensions as in Symbathocrinus.
It is even very possible that the interradials were partially or wholly resorbed by the muscular processes of the radials, as these became developed in the growing Crinoid.
The subdivisions of Poteriocrinus, which we proposed, have been accepted by Wetherby and Williams, but ignored b}'^ S. A. Miller and Prof.
Worthen.'
Extensive collections made by us during the last two years, enable us to give additional information respecting these divisions.
Farisocrinus proves to be not only a good genus, but, moreover, is a Cyathocrinoid, having no pinnules.
Pachylocrinus is closer allied to ZeacrinuH than to Poteriocrinus, and is probably identical with Philocrinus.
De Koninck described this genus with a monocyclic base, and the calyx strictly pentahedral, but from appearance it had underbasals and az3'gous plates, and is identical with Pachylocrinus.
We have redefined Scytalocrinus and Decadocrinus, which should both be ranked as subgenera under Poteriocrinus, and likewise Scaphiocrinus.
Mr. Percy Sladen, in a paper " On the genus Poteriocrinus and allied forms " (read before the Geol.
and Polyt.
Soc.
at Yorkshire in 1877), separated the English Carboniferous Poteriocrinites into four groups : Poteriocrinus^ Dactylocrinus, Scaphiocrinus and Zeacrinus.
To the typical form he referred: P. crassus, P. spissus, P. conicus.
P. plicatus^ P. impressus, P. radiatus and P. quinquangularis.
We agree with him as to the first four species, but we think the last three are C^^athocrinidffi and should be referred to Parisocrinus.
Mr. Sladen, unfortunatel}^ figured ' S. A. Miller, in the 2d Ed.
of his Catal.
of Pal.
Poss., called them "subgenera of doubtful utility."
Prof. Wortheu gives the following reasons for refusing their acceptance (Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 4): "First, I see no beneficial result that is likely to come from cumbering the nomenclature of paleontology with such terms, and secondly, because any proposed subgeneric formula that groujjs together such diverse forms as Zeacrinus maniformis Y. and Sh., and Poteriocrinus Biselli Worthen, can be of no practical advantage in the study of this group of Criuoids, and hence, until some satisfactory generic cliaractei's can be pointed out by which they may be separated, it seems advisable to include them all under the generic name originally j)roposed by Miller for them."
If our good friend had read our paper more carefully, he would have observed that we proposed our six subdivisions of Poteriocrinus with the distinct statement that we "scarcely deemed the characters upon which they are based sufficiently important even for subgeneric separation," and that we alluded in detail to the difficulty of referring the " Zeacrinus " maniformis to any of the sections.
In proposing these subdivisions, however, we only followed the suggest'on of Meek and Wortheu in 1869 (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 138 and note), where, after defining Scaphiocrinus, Zeacrinus and Ccdiocrinus as subgenera under Poteriocrinus, they add, under the head of Scaphiocrinus : "The group, however, has been extended by Prof. Hall and others so as to include species presenting all the characters given above, and might be divided into several sections, distinguished from each other and from the Parisocrinus radiatus to illustrate the genus Poteriocrinus, a species without pinnules, with the arms of a Cyathocrinus, but with a PoteiHocrinus arrangement of azygous plates.
Under Dactylocrinus he included P. tenuis, both of Miller and Austin, T. isacobus and P. rostratus^ Austin (pars), Monogr.
Rec.
and Foss.
Crin.
* PL 9, figs.
2 b, c (non 2 a, d).
Comparing Austin's P. tenuis, which Sladen redescribed as Dactylocrinus loreus, with " Poferiocrinus " radiatus, there appears to be considerable difference between the two forms, but comparing it with P. crassus, Miller's typical species, the difference is not so very great.
Austin's figure apparently was made from a verj' j-oung specimen, as indicated by the unusuall}?^ long arm joints, and it may be a somewhat aberrant form of Scytalocrinus.
Sladen 's name Dactylocrinus would have priority over Scytalocrinus, had not Quenstedt in 1876 used the same name for a different form.
P. isacobus is, in our opinion, a good Poteriocrinus.
Sladen refers to Scaphiocrinus: P. latifrons, Austin, which we take to be a Pachylocrinus ; and to Zeacrinus : Gupressocrinus impressus {Cupressocrinus calyx ^ McCoy) ; Poteriocrinus llcCoyanus, a,nd Zeacrinus Phillipsi.
We agree with him as to the latter species, but we doubt if the other three are sufficiently known to assert whether the calices belong to either Zeacrinus, E upachy crinus or Hydreionocrinus.
typical form, on quite as good characters as those distinguishing the latter from Zeacrinus.''''
At the time of J. S. Miller the genus Poteriocrinus was fully sufficient to hold every species then known, but for each species then known one hundred have been discovered since.
When we attempted to revise the Poteriocrinites we found .a confusion such as existed in no other group of the PaliBocrinoidea.
The subdivisions that had been proposed were so indistinctly defined, and contained such diverse elements, that they rather increased tlie difficulty instead of diminishing it.
As a temporary remedy we proposed our subdivisions, and expecting they would eventually prove to be distinct genera, we applied to them at once generic names.
It was at the option of Prof. Worthen to accept these divisions or not, but in adding some fifty or more species to the three hundred already described, he surely would have aided in the identification of his species, and science generally, by referring them to those groups.
This would have lightened the labors of others, who are now compelled to look up for comparison every one of his species.
Besides, if Prof. Worthen had consulted the Revision, he might have avoided a number of synonyms, which "cumber the nomenclature of paleontology " more seriously than those few systematic names.
It is somewhat curious that after refusinoto accept the subgenera proposed by us and Prof. Hall, Prof. Worthen repeatedly employs the specific names which had already been used by previous writers in one or the other of those subgenera.
a. Poteriocrinites.
POTERIOCRINUS J. S. Miller.
Rev.
I, p. 111.
Dorsal cup obconical ; plates delicate and frequently covered with wrinldes or radiating plications.
Radials with a semicircular scar, facing outward, and provided with a transverse articular ridge.
Brachials one ; laterally constricted ; sutures gaping.
Arms long and branching ; composed of wedge-formed plates.
Ventral sac long, constructed of six longitudinal rows of short transverse plates forming a tube ; one of these rows resting upon the anal piece, another upon the third azygous plate.
The plates of the tube, which are heavier along their median line, are provided laterally with transverse ridges or plications, which all have long open slits along their margins.
Column circular.
We add the following species to our list : 1882.
Poteriocrinus Clarkii Williams, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 21, PI.
1, fig.
4.
Chemung gr.
Steuben Co., N. Y. Var.
alpha, ibid., p. 22, PI.
1, fig.
5.
Chemung gr.
Ithaca, N. Y.
1882.
P. cornellianus Williams, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 18, PI.
1, figs, 1, 2, 3.
Chemung gr.
Ithaca, N. Y.
1836.
P. impressus Phill.
(not McCoy, 1854 = Hydreionocrinus McCoyanus, nor Richter and linger, 1860).
Geol.
Yorkshire, p. 205, PI.
4, fig.
1.
Austin, 1843, Rec.
and Foss.
Crin., p. 10, fig.
6.
W. and Sp., Rev.
i, p. 120.
Sladen, 1877, On the Genus Poteriocrinus, p. 8.
Bristol, England.
1882.
P. otterensis Worthen, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mas.
Nat.
Hist., p. 14 : also Geol.
Rep. Illinois vii, p. 283, PI.
28, fig.
4.
Otter Creek, Jersey Co., III.
Species having the characters of the Poteriocrinites, but not sufficiently known to be referred to the proper genus : P. aemulus Hall, 1879, Eleventh Indiana Rep., p. 266, is probably a Homocrinus (?).
1880.
P. anomalos Wetherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(July), p. 15, PI.
5, fig.
6.
Kaskaskia gr.
Pulaski Co., Ky.
This is one of the most perplexing species of this group.
It agrees neither with Grapliiocrinus, nor Decadocrinus, nor ScapMocrinus, nor Eupachycrinus, and really shades into all of them.
1882.
P. araclinaeformis Worthen, Bull, i. III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 13, PI.
28, fig.
12: also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 281, PI.
28, fig.
12.
Keokuk limest.
Warsaw, 111.
P. Bockschii Geinitz.
Only known to us from quotations.
P. calyx Hall, 1879 (non De Koninck, 1853), is only defined from basal plates.
Niagara gr.
1882.
P. clytis Worthen, Bull.
No.
1, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., P. 16 (not P. clytis on p. 25); also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 294, PI.
30, fig.
10.
St. Louis limest.
Monroe Co., 111.
A very young specimen, as seen by the form of the brachials and arm joints j it probably had 10 arms in its adult state.
1849.
P. crassimanus McCoy (not P. crassimanus Eichw.
), Ann.and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(Ser.
ii),vol.
iii, p. 245.
Contrib.
Paliuont., p. 106.
Carboniferous, Derbyshire.
1882.
P. illinoisiensis Worthen, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 10 ; also Geol, Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 289, PI.
28, fig.
17 Warsaw limest.
Warsaw.
111.
1844.
P. inequidactylus McCoy, Carboniferous Foss.
Ireland, p. 179, PI.
26, fig.
8.
Carboniferous.
Ireland.
P. minimus Austin (not Ad.
Roemer) is probably a synonym of Scaphiocrinus isacobus.
1882.
P. similis Worthen, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 23; also (Jeol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 295, PI.
30, fig.
12.
Kaskaskia limest.
Monroe Co., 111.
This is evidently a young specimen, probably of one of the other species.
1882.
P. validus Worthen, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 18 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 287, PI.
28, fig.
16.
Warsaw limest.
Warsaw, 111.
SCAPHIOCRINUS Hall, Rev.
I, p. 112.
(Emend.
W.
andSp.)
Dorsal cup obcoiiical to semi-ovoid ; all its plates closel}' united by suture.
Radials truncate above, the articular ridge filling almost the entire width of the upper face.
Brachials long, simple or compound, similar in form to the radials but truncate below; line of articulation gaping.
In species with compound brachials, the two segments have the form and proportions of the one plate in the others, and are joined by suture.
Arms long, branching; arm joints rather long, wedge-form.
Azygous side as in Poteriocrinus.
Column obtusely pentagular.
Poteriocrinus Jesupi Whitfield, Amer.
Mas.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., Bull, i (Decbr., 1881), is evidently a synonym of P. Swallovi M. and W. (compare 111.
Rep., ii, PI.
16, fig.
4), although Whitfield thinks it distinct in the bifurcation of the arms, and in the number and arrangement of the anal plates.
In the type specimen of P. Swallovi only two bifurcations of the arms were preserved, and Meek and Worthen remarked on p. 84, that the arms in the upper parts " seemed to be simple " in this species.
The latter is not confirmed by our specimens, of which many have arms and ventral sac beautifully preserved ; they all show essentially the same bifurcations as Whitfield's specimen.
Slight variation in the number of arm joints in one of the bifurcations cannot be regarded as a good specific character, and even an additional division of the arms may take place in the same species.
The apparent variation in the number of " anal " plates is explained by the fact that in the type of P. Swallovi the arms accidentally cover the lower portion of the ventral sac, exposing to view only four plates ; while in Whitfield's specimen a much greater portion of the ventral sac is visible.
The following species are to be added to our former list : a.
With simple brachials.
*1882.
Soaphiocrinus kaskaskiensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus kaskaskiensis, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 27; also Gool.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 300, PI.
30, fig.
15.
Kaskaskia limest.
Near Chester, 111.
*1882.
S. latidactylus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus latidactylus, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 8; also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 275, PI.
28, fig.
6.
Keokuk limest.
Hamilton, 111.
*1884.
S. obscurus W. and Sp.
(Poteriocrinus tenuidactylus Worthen), Bull, i, of the 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 6 (not p. 10 ; nor Pot.
[Scaph.]
tenuidactylus M. and W., 1865) ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 271, PI.
28, fig.
13.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, Iowa.
The specific name tjeing preoccupied by M. and W. in Geol.
Rep. 111., iii, p. 490, PI.
18, fig.
10, we propose for this species the .
above name.
*1882.
S. occidentals (Worthen), Poteriocrinus occidentalis Worthen (not Shum.
), Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 10; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 278, PI.
29, fig.
2.
Keokuk limest.
Hamilton, 111.
The name Pot.
occidentalis was preoccupied, in 1852, by Owen and Shum., Geol.
Rep. of Wise, Iowa and Minnesota, p. 596, PI.
5 b, fig.
5 ; but, as it has since been referred to Agassizocrinus, we propose retaining Worthen's name for the above species.
*18S2.
S. okawensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus okawensis, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 24; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 296, PI.
29, fig.
2.
Kaskaskia gr.
Okaw River, 111.
*1882.
S. Orestes (Worthen), Poteriocrinus Orestes, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 7; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 273, PI.
27, fig.
3.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, Iowa.
(Compare with Scaph.
Coreyi M. & W.) *1882.
S. popensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus popensis, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 23; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, p. 290, PI.
29, fig.
12.
Kaskaskia gr.
Pope Co., 111.
*1882.
S. propinquus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus propinquus, Bull, i, HI.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 26 ; Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, PI.
29, fig.
9.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., 111.
*1882.
S. Salteri (Worthen), Poteriocrinus Salteri, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 21 ; Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, PI.
29, fig.
18.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, 111.
1880.
S. spinifer Wutherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(July), p. 13, PI.
5, fig.
5.
GrapMocrinus spinifer S. A. Miller, 1883, Catalogue Amer.
Pal.
Foss.
Ed.
ii, p. 287.
Kaskaskia gr.
Pulaski Co., Ky. *1882.
S. spinobracMatus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus spinobrachiatus (not Hall), Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 20; also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 290, PI.
29, fig.
1.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., 111.
Hall described in 1861 a species under P. (ScapMocrinus) spinobrachiatus, which we referred in Rev.
i, p. 123, to Graphiocrinus.
*1882.
S. varsoviensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus varsoviensis, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 20; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii.
p. 290, PI.
28, fig.
15.
Warsaw limest.
Warsaw, 111.
*1882.
S. venustus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus venustus, Bull, i, HI.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 24; also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 297, PI.
29, fig.
13.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., 111.
%.
P. peculiaris Worthen, (described Bull, i. III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 26, as Pot.
clytis), Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 298, PI.
29, fig.
10.
The specimen from which the species was described has an anomalous arrangement of anal plates.
b.
With compound brachials.
*1882.
S. briareus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus briareus, Bull, i, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 12; also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 279, PI.
27, fig.
4.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, la., and Bono, Ind.
The specific name is given at all places as P. briaerius, but evidently was intended for Pot.
briareus.
1882.
S. Burketi ( Worthen).
Poteriocrinus Burketi, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 5; also Geol.
Pi,ep.
Illiuuis, vii, p. 270, PI.
28, fig.
8.
Keokuk limest.
Hamilton, 111.
*1882.
S. coxanus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus coxanus, Bull, i, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 4; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 269, PI.
27, fig.
1.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, Iowa.
S. cultidactylus Hall, 1859, was redescribed and figured Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii.
p. ;iUl, PI.
30, fig.
I.
18S4.
S. extensus W. & Sp., Poteriocrinus asper Worthen, not Pot.
(Pachylocr.)
asper (W. & Sp., Rev.
i, p. 116), Bull, i, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist, p. 11 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 278, PI.
27, fig.
8.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, Iowa.
Poteriocrinus asper being preoccupied, we propose the above name in place of it.
*18S2.
S. iowensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus iowensis, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 6 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 272.
Keokuk limest.
Hamilton, 111.
*1S44.
S. macrocbeirus (McCoy), Cyatbocrinus macrocheirus, Synop.
Garb.
Foss.
Ireland, PI.
25, figs.
8, 10.
Subcarboniferous, Ireland.
(This species has three brachials.)
*187;].
S. montanaensis (Meek), Poteriocrinus montanaensis, Ann.
Rep. U. S. Geol.
Rep. Terr, for 1872, p. 469; also White, 12th Ann.
Rep. of the Terr., by Hayden, for 1878, p. 128, PI.
3.3, fig.
6 a. Carboniferous.
Virginia City Montana.
*1882.
S. nauvooensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus nauvooensis, Bull, i, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 13; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 282, PI.
28, fig.
10.
Keokuk limest.
Nauvoo, III.
*1882.
S. pikensis (Worthen), Zeacrinus pikensis, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 304; Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, PL 30, fig.
3.
Burlington limest.
Pike Co., Illinois.
S1882.
S. sculptus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus sculptus, Bull, i, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 21 ; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 292, PI.
29, fig.
8.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., III.
(Poteriocrinus subramulosus AVorthen, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 14; Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 284, is a synonym of Pot.
(Scaphiocrinus) Swallovi M. <fc W. This species passes from the upper part of the Upjier Burlington into the Keokuk limestone).
SCYTALOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev.
I, p. 116.
Syu.
Dactilocrinus Sladen, 1877 (not Quensteclt), in pai-t (Ou the genus Poteriocrinus, p. 4).
General form, including arms, slender, almost cylindrical.
Dorsal cup obconical or bell-shaped ; plates strong but not massive, connected by close suture.
TJnderbasals well developed, bent upward and forming a conspicuons part of the calyx.
Radials and brachials of nearly the same form, apposed faces truncate, with a transverse articular ridge and somewhat shallow fossae ; line of articulation gaping.
The brachials either single or compound, generally elongate, constricted along the middle.
They support two simple arms each, except in the anterior ray, which sometimes has but a single arm.
Arms long, rather heavy, composed of quadrangular or slightl}^ cuneiform joints ; pinnules of moderate size.
Azygous side as in Poteriocrinus ; ventral sac tubular, with slit-like openings, and frequently spiniferous at the distal end.
Column circular or obtusely pentagonal.
Additional species : a.
With single brachials.
*1877.
Scytalocrinus loreus (Sladen), Dactylocrinus loreus (Poteriocrinus tenuis Austin, non Miller), Mon.
Rec.
and Foss.
Crin., PL 10, fig.
5.
On the genus Poteriocrinus, etc., p. 5.
Subcarboniferous.
England.
*1821.
S. tenuis Miller, Nat.
Hist.
Criu., p. 71, PI.
21-23.
Dactylocrinus tenuis Sladen, 1877, "On the genus Poteriocrinus, p.
5."
*1880.
S, Wachsmuthi Wetherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soe.
Nat.
Hist.
(July), p. 12, PI.
5, fig.
4.
Kaskaskia limest.
Pulaski Co., Ky. b.
With compound brachials.
(Poteriocrinus hamiltonensis Worthen, 1882, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 7; Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 273, PI.
28, fig.
9, Syn.
of Poteriocr.
(Scytalocr.)
robustus Hall).
*1882.
Scytalocrinus Talboti (Worthen), Poteriocrinus Talboti, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 17; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 287, PI.
30, fig.
7.
St. Louis limest.
Monroe Co., 111.
DECADOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev.
I. p. 119.
Arms ten, rarely nine, the anterior ray sometimes undivided.
Dorsal cup depressed, saucer-shaped, with a deep concavity along the basal regions.
TJnderbasals small, not seen in a side view, and frequently covered almost entirely by the column.
Form of radials and brachials and articulation as in Scytalocrinus ; brachials simple or compound.
Arms composed of single wedge-form joints, with keel-like projections at alternate sides, and with strongly waving or zigzag outlines.
Pinnules unusually strong, placed far apart, and resembling armlets ; composed of short cuneate joints, with spurs or keels upon theirbasal joints.
Azygous side as in Poteriocrinus.
Yentral sac more or less club-shaped ; constructed of numerous rows of regularly arranged hexagonal pieces, with a pore at each angle.
Column pentagonal, with rounded angles.
Decadocrinus agrees closely with Graphiocrinus, but the latter has no azygous plate, only an anal piece.
Additional species : a.
With simple brachials.
*1882.
Decadocrinus columbiensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus columbiensis, Bull.
i, 111.
8t.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 22; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 293, PI.
19, fig.
6.
Kaskaskia limest.
Monroe Co., 111.
*1882.
D. fountainensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus fountainensis, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 17; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 286, PI.
30, Fig.
11.
St. Louis limest.
Monroe Co., 111.
*18S1.
D. Milleri (Wetherby), Poteriocrinus Milleri (not Worthen), Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
(January), PI.
9, figs.
12, 13.
Kaskaskia gr.
Pulaski Co., Ky. *18S2.
D. penicilliformis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus penicilliformis, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 8; also Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 276, PI.
28, fig.
9.
Keokuk limest.
Hamilton, 111.
1882.
D. zethus Williams.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 27, PI.
I, fig.
9.
Portage gr.
Ithaca, N. Y. b.
With compound hracMals.
1882.
D. gregarius Williams.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 22, PI.
1, figs.
6, 7, 8.
Chemung gr.
Ithaca, N. Y. WOODOCRINUS De Koninck.
Rev.
i, p. 124.
(Emended W. and Sp.)
Syn.
Parisocrinus W. and Sp.
Rev.
i, p. 115.
Syn.
Zeacrinus Hall (not Troost) in part.
Geol.
Rep.
la., vol.
i, p. 544.
Syn.
Zeacrinus Sladen, 1877.
On the genus Poteriocrinus, etc., p. 7.
Syn.
(.?)
Philocrinus De Koninck, 1862.
Quart.
Joum.
Geol.
Soc, London.
The ventral side of Woodocrinus has not been observed, but we may suppose from the spreading of the arms that its sac was rather bulk3^ This is further suggested by the great width of the azygous side, which, however, is composed of the same elements as in most Poteriocrinites, and is not structurally distinct as has been generally supposed.
It has, like Poteriocrinus, within the calyx three azygous plates the succeeding pieces forming the abactinal parts of the ventral sac which for some distance, are exposed between the arms.
It differs from Scaphiocrinus in the shortness of its arm joints and arms generally.
This it shares, however, with Pachylocrinus as defined by us, and with Zeacrinus Troost.
In our description of Zeacrinus (Rev.
i, p. 125), we stated the difficulty of separating it from Woodocrinus.
The only ditference, there noted, was the folding up and the smaller size of the arms in the former, and upon this distinction almost exclusively we based the separation.
We also stated that the calyx in Woodocrinus was generall}' more turbinate, in Zeacrinus depressed with concave basal regions, but also to this rule we found exceptions among the species which had been referred to the latter.
Equally impracticable would be a separation upon the arm joints, although these vary considerably among the typical species.
The arms of Zeacrinus magnoliaformis are dorsally perfectly flat, those of Woodocrinus macrodactylus decidedly rounded, and Hall, Meek, Worthen and White placed under Zeacrinus species with flat, rounded and angular arms.
The species which we arranged in Pt.
i, under Pacht/locrinus, had been originally, with a few exceptions, described under Zeacrinus.
Their arms, like those of the latter, are more or less closelj' folded up, and they dichotomize in a similar manner.
All are composed of short quadrangular joints, and all have a clubor elongate balloon-shaped, ventral sa<; ; while the sac in Zeacrinus magnoliaformis is pyramidal, with sharp lateral edges and concave sides.
In the latter the form of the calyx is disk-like, in the others bowl-shaped.
Mr. Percy Sladen, the only English writer who advocated the necessity of subdividing the original genus Poteriocrinus, placed Poteriocrinus 3IcCoi/a7ius, P. calyx, P. granulosus and F. Phillipsii under Zeacrinus.
We fully agree with him that these four species cannot be retained under Poteriocrinus, having close affinities with Zeacrinus, but we believe the three former will prove to be Eydreionocrinus, his Zeacrinus Phillipsii a Pachylocrinus or Woodocrinus, as also Poteriocrinus latifrons Austin, which he referred to Scaphiocrinus.
Sladen probably was not acquainted with Troost's type of Zeacrinus.
as he took Z. elegans to be a typical form, an opinion in which we have shared until quite recently, when we obtained numerous beautifully-preserved specimens, both of "Zeacrinus " elegans and Troost's typical species, from the Kaskaskia limestone.
The laterforms differ from the earlier not only in the form of their ventral sac, but also essentially in the construction of their calyx.
In the typical species the dorsal cup is disk-like, almost flat, the radials extremely large, touching with their acute lower angles the underbasals, thereby almost isolating the five basals.
The basals in these species consist of minute trigonal pieces of irregular form, and also the underbasals are small, and rest deeply within the columnar concavity (PL 6, fig.
9).
In the earlier form, notably " Zeacrinus " elegans, however, the basal cup is bowl-shaped, and the basals are comparatively larger.
The arrangement of the azygous pieces upon which DeKoninck placed so much stress in defining Woodocri7ius, \s, in our opinion, not diflerent from that of Poteriocrinus or Scaphiocrinus, only more plates of the ventral sac are exposed to view, owing to the width of the azygous side, and as we see no other distinction between Woodocrinus and our Pachylocrinus, we place the species which we had referred to the latter, including '' Zeacrinus^'' elegans and a few others of the same type, under Woodocrinus^ as this name has priority.
Perhaps, if all American species were as distinct as " Zeacrinus " elegans from Woodocrinus macrodactylus, it might be possible to make the former the type of a separate group, but as we find all intermediate forms, from infolding arms to spreading arms, and two to five or more bifurcations, flat, angular and rounded arms, any such separation must be adandoned.
Fhilocriaus, De Koniuck, from Punjaub, India, is probably, to judge from the figure, a species of Woodocinnus.
We think it has azygous plates, but these were covered by matrix in DeKoninck's specimen.
We also doubt if the arm plates of first and second order were laterall}' connected b}^ suture ; these evidently were free as in the Fistulata generally.
Revised Diagnosis.
Calyx sometimes obconical, more frequently depressed-bowl-shaped, and the underbasals bent inward, forming a concavity.
Basals large, constituting a continuous ring beneath the radials.
Az3^gous plates arranged as in PoteriociHnus ; ventral sac slightly inflated.
Brachials composed of one or two pieces, which jointly have the form and size of the radials ; they are wider than long, and their lateral margins are fitted closely together as if they were united by suture.
This infolding of the brachials extends also to the arm plates up to the second bifurcation; and is often found throughout the full length of the arms.
The arm joints are short, quadrangular, rarely cuneate, the apposed faces, more or lefes parallel and flat, angular or rounded on their outer face.
The arms dichotomize and each branch gives otf one or more branches to the inner side of the ray, which either bifurcate again or remain simple.
The articulation is the same as in Scaphiocrinus.
Column circular, or obtusely pentangular.
The zoological position of Woodocrinus is probably between Scaphiocrinus and Zeacrinus.
Geological Position, etc.
The genus occurs only in the Subcarboniferoiis, and almost exclusively in the lower portions.
We place under Woodocrinus the following species, all of which were referred by us.
Rev.
i, p. 116, to Pachylocrinus : Zeacr'inus arboreus Worthen, Zeacrinus asper M. and W., Zeacrinus concinnus M. and W., Poteriocrinus latifrons Austin, Scaphiocrinus liliiformis M. and W., Zeacrinus merope Hall, Zeacrinus paternus Hall, Zeacrinus perangulatus White, Zeacrinus planobrachiatus M. and W., Pachylocrinus suhsequalis W. and Sp., and the following, which in Rev.
i, p. 128, were placed under Zeacrinus : Poteriocrinus hursaeformis White, Zeacrinus elegans Hall, Zeacrinus ramosus Hall, Zeacrinus scohina M. and W., Zeacrinus serratus M. and W., and Zeacrinus troostanus M. and W. The following species are to be added : *1882.
Woodocrinus asperatus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus asperatus, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 12, also Geol.
Rep. Illiuois, vii, p. 280, Pi.
28, fig, 2.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, la.
*1882.
W. claytonensis (AVorthen), Poteriocrinus claytonensis, Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 18; also Geol.
Rep. lUinuis, vii, p. 288, PI.
30, fig.
6.
Warsaw limest.
Adams Co., 111.
1862.
(?)
W. cometa (De Koninck), Philocrinus cometa, Quart.
Journ.
Geol.
See.
London, PI.
ii, fig.
1.
Suboarboniferous.
River Indus, India.
1854.
W. macrodactylus De Koninck.
Type of the genus, Recherch.
Crin.
Belg., Suppl., p. 6, PI.
8, figs.
1 a-d. Suboarboniferous.
Richmond, England.
*1882.
W. richfieldensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus richfieldensis, Bull, i, HI.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 15; also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, p. 285, PI.
m, fig.
5.
Waverly (Kinderhook) group.
Richfield, 0.
188.3.
W. tentaculatus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus tenuidactylus.
Bull., i, III.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 10 ; Poteriocrinus tentaculatus, Geol.
Rep. Ilinois, vii, p. 277, PI.
28, fig.
11.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk, la.
Prof. AVorthen finding the former specific name occupied, changed it to the latter.
This species is a typical form of Woodocrinus, and has the heavy rounded arms as De Koninck's species.
ZEACRINUS (Troost MS.) Hall, Rev., i, p. 125.
Revised W. and Sp.
(PI.
6, fig.
9, and PI.
9, fig.
3).
Zeacrinus differs from Woodocrinus (Pachylocrinus) in the form of the ventral sac, which, as described by us, is pyramidal, sharply angnlar and pointed at the upper end ; while that of Woodocrinus is club-shaped, inflated above.
The two genera differ also in the construction and form of the dorsal cup, which in Zeacrinus is much more depressed and disk-like, Basals exceedingly small, trigonal, deeply notched for the reception of the radials.
The underbasals at the inner floor of the calyx are generally larger than they appear at the outer side, and the angles of the radials sometimes touch the underbasals.
Plates of the calj'x massive, especially the radials, their distal faces sloping outward ; articular facets with muscular extensions.
Arm plates generally flat, except the axillaries, which frequently are tuberculous.
The arms dichotomize toward the inner side of the ray from each main division, the branches rarely dividing again.
The arm joints are short, transversely arranged, those of the same rank slightly increasing in width upwards, those of the next order narrower by one-half than the preceding bifurcating plate.
By this structure, the arms.
of each ray, and of the main divisions of the rays, form laterally a straight line, by means of which they fit in so closely against the arms of adjoining rays, that thc}^ often appear as if united by suture.
Column round, comparatively small.
We now recognize under Zeacrinus only the following species, viz.
: Zeacrinus bifurcatus, Z. compactilis Worthen ; Z. magnoliaformis 0. and N.; .^.
ovalis Lyon and Cass.
; Z. Wortheni Hall, and our new species Z. nodosus, all other species which were referred bj^ us to this genus are found now under Woodocrinus.
Zeacrinus nodosus, nov. sp.
(PI.
6, fig.
;!).
The largest known species of the genus.
All plates of calyx and arms nodose, except basals and underbasals ; the nodes on , all axillaries, and the first plate of each succeeding order of arm plates, almost covering the entire surface of the plate ; while at the intermediate plates the nodes have more the shape of small tubercles, arranged so as to occupy an excentric position, leaning slightly toward the wider or pinnule-bearing side, thereby forming along the arms two rows of nodes, alternately arranged.
Underbasals of medium size, extending beyond the column, forming a shallow inverted cup, decagonal at the outer side, Basals trigonal, ver}'' minute, irregular in size, the two anterior ones smaller than the others.
Radials large ; broadly truncate below ; subquadrangular in outline but hexagonal ; the three lower faces scarcely as wide as the lateral ones, and narrower by one-half than the upper side.
Brachials 1X5; four of them triangular, giving off two arms each ; the anterior one quadrangular, with only one primary arm.
The arms bifurcate on the fifth plate, and again on the tenth to fifteenth ; the higher divisions are not known."
In this species, exceptionall}'^, the inner arms branch again.
Azygous plate elongate, resting upon the underbasals ; the right lateral face, which is slightly convex, abutting against the right posterior radial, its upper side supporting the anal plate ; leaning with its left lateral side against the other radial, and with its lower sloping side against the adjoining basal.
Geological Position.!
etc.
Keokuk limestone.
White's Creek Springs, near Nashville, Tenn. CCELIOCSINUS White, Rev.
I, p. 131.
Syn.
Sphreronites Phill., Palseoz.
Foss.
Cornwall, p. 135.
We have heretofore made Coeliocrinus a subgenus of Hydreionocrinus, owing to slight variations in the form and construction of the ventral sac, which we thought to be the only distinctive character.
Beautiful specimens, however, which we obtained since in Kentuck}^, show that the two forms differ in their mode of articulation in a similar manner as WooclociHnus and Zeact'inufi, Scytalocrinus and Eupachycrinus, which we ranked as full genera.
In Coeliocrinus the calyx is conical, in Hydreionoci'inus depressed saucer-shaped.
Coeliocrinus is found also in Europe.
Phillips, in his work on the Palseoz.
Foss.
of Cornwall, gives on PI.
59 a good figure of what we take to be the balloon-shaped ventral sac of this genus.
His figure was copied from the Geol.
Trans, (new ser.
), vol.
iii, PI.
20, which had been published with a note by Mr. Broderip, " calling attention to some analogy between this fossil and Chelyosoma macleayanum, a species of tunicate Mollusca, which has a few coriaceous plates on the upper surface ont}^" Phillips, and apparently Austin, took it to be allied to Echinosphe rites of Wahlenberg, and called it provisionally Sphseronites tessellafuSj which we propose to change into Coeliocrinus tessellatus.
* In its arm structure Cceliocriniis leans decidedly toward Woodocrinus, but approaches Eydreionocrinus in the form of its saclike appendage.
We have already referred to it Cceliocrinus dilatatus (Hall) White; G. carr/u/erMS (Worthen) W. and Sp.
; G. lyra (Worthen) W. and Sp.
; G. subspinosus White, and G. ventt^icosus (Hall) White, and now add further : 1840.
C. tessellatus (Phill.
), Spseronites tesseUatus, Pala^oz.
Foss.
Cornwall, p. 135, PI.
59.
Subcarbon.
(?).
Locality (?).
HYDREIONOCRINUS De Kon., Rev.
I, p. 123.
Wetherby, in a paper on the Crinoids of Pulaski Co., Kentucky, figured and described a new species of Eydreionocrinus, which he referred with doubt to Eydreionocrinus (Zeacrinus) armiger (M. and W.).
Several fine specimens of this form, which we obtained lately at Sloan's Yalley, Ky., show it to be specifically distinct from either E. armiger or E. de23ressus of the same localit3^ We propose for it the name Eydreionocrinus Wetherbyi, in honor of the discoverer of this interesting locality.
The species, which was figured Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
iii, figs.
7, 8, 9, 10, difiers from E. depressus, y^ith which it has probably the closest aflfinities, in the less depressed form of the dorsal cup, and in the basal concavity, which is shallow and almost restricted to the underbasals ; while in the other the cup is deeply excavated, and the concavity includes even a portion of the radials.
In our species, every brxichial bifurcates, in the other only four ; the anterior radial which is quadrangular, supporting a single primary arm.
In the former all five radials are spiniferous, in the latter only four, and the spines are shorter and sharper.
In E. depr^sus the primary arms branch four times, in E. Wetherbyi only twice, and the arms, which in the former taper to a small point, remain comparatively heavy in the latter.
Again, in E. depressus the arm joints, from the second bifurcation upwards, are biserial, while in E. Wetherbyi they do not pass the interlocking stage.
In the former the ventral sac is armed with ten spines which join along the centre, the latter has five only, and these enclose a variable number of small plates.
Eydreionocrinus (?)
orbicularis De Koninck will be found under Cromyoci'inus.
*1884.
H. Wetherbyi W. and Sp.
Hydreionocrinus (Zeacrinus) arminger (M. & W.) Wetherby, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Ilist., iii, p. 5, figs.
7-10.
Kaskaskia gr.
Pulaski Co., Ky. 12 .
CROMYOCRINUS Trautschold.
(Eeconstructecl W. and Sp.)
1867.
Trautschold, Crin.
jiing.
Bergkalk bei Moskau, p. 19.
1879.
Trautschold, Monogr.
Kalkbr.
von Mjatschkowa, p. 117.
1879, Zittel, Handb.
der Palseont., i, p. 360.
Syn.
Eupacliycrinus in part (W. and Sp.
), Revision i, p. 133.
Syn.
Hydreionocrinus in part (De Koninck); Syn.
Agassizocrinus in part (Worthen); Syn.
Poterioerinus in part (McCoy), Placing Gromyocrinus as a synon^-m under Eupachycrinus, we found it impossible to uphold the genus upon any of the characters that had been pointed out by Trautschold.
Wetherby has asserted (Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
IN^at.
Hist., iir, p. 8), that the genus was " well fitted to embrace all those species having three or more anals, a body composed of comparatively heavj^, convex plates, and ten arms composed of a single row of joints," He further proposed to refer to Eupachycrinus all those species of this group having one or more anals, heavy rounded calj^x plates, ten to fourteen arms, and these composed of a double series of interlocking plates.
The biserial arm structure, which is only a higher form of the uniserial one, is as closely intermingled with the latter in the Russian form as in the typical Eupachycrinus, and also the plates of the calyx are heavy and convex in both groups.
The only distinction of Wetherby upon which perhaps a separation of the species referred by us to Eupachycrinus might be established, is the number of azygous plates.
We can separate the species with a single plate from those with three pieces, as proposed by White.
A division of this kind, however, does not in the least affect Gromyocrinus^yfYaoh, like the typical Eupachycrinus, has three azj^gous plates.
But Gromyocrinus differs from the typical form of Eupachycrinus, in the form of the calyx, the relative size of the various plates, and in their mode of union.
In all American species of Eupachycrinus, the form is depressed, more or less saucer-shaped, and the underbasals, which are very small and totally covered by the column, rest within a deep concavity together with the lower portions of the basals.
The latter plates, and also the radials, are comparatively large, the underbasals small.
In Gromyocrinus the calyx is globular, constricted at the upper "end, the underbasals large, extending conspicuously beyond the column and forming a shallow cup.
The basals are so extremely large, the radials so comparatively small, that the former, together with the imderbasals, frequently constitute over three-fourths of the cup, while in Eupachycrinus the same parts occupy not more than half that space.
Besides, the plates of Gromyocrinus are united by syzygy, and not by ligamentous fossse, as in most species of Eiqjachycrinus.
Our attention was directed to these facts by a species figured and described by De Koniuck under the name of Eydreionocrinus (?)
globularis, which in a somewhat higher degree has all the characters of Gromyocrinus, and at the same time resembles certain forms described under Agassizocrinus.
To Agassizocrinus have been referred two very distinct groups, the one almost always without column or even columnar attachment, with a large almost solid, subglobular or semiovoid underbasal cup, nearly truncate upper side, and small basals.
The other, always attached to a column, with comparatively small underbasals, stretched out horizontally so as to form a five-rayed star, and with extremely large basals partly on the same plane with the underbasals.
The latter species, which include Agassizocrinus globosus and Agassizocrinus papillatus, both described by Worthen, agree most closely with Hydreionocrinus (?)
globularis De Koninck; Poteriocrinus nuciformis McCoy ; Gyathocrinus (?)
sangamonensis M. and W., all previously referred by us to Eupachycrinus, and all agree equally well with Gromyocrinus simplex from Russia.
These species, we think, might be arranged under Gromyocrinus, and the only thing which prevented us from doing so before, is the similarity with Trautschold's two other species {Gromyocrinus geminatus and G. orna^ws), which in their arm structure and general form approach Epachycrinus ; while they agree in other points with Gromyocrinus sim2')lex.
Gromyocrinus is closely allied to Agassizocrinus, to which it holds a similar position as Pentacrinus to Antedon.
We doubt if Gromyocrinus QYQx became detached from its column, while all species of AgassizociHnus lose their column comparatively early.
Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup globular, constricted above; composed of heavy plates ; sometimes (perhaps always) united by syzygy.
Underbasals comparatively large, plainly visible beyond the column, horizontally arranged and forming a sharply delineated star, or sometimes a very shallow cup with a slight depression for the attachment of the column ; suture lines well defined.
Basals large ; generally as high or higher than wide ; three of them equal, hexagonal ; the two adjoining the azygous side heptagonal, larger and of a different form.
Radials all pentagonal ; the lateral faces often so short as to give to the plates a trigonal outline ; their outer faces abruptly depressed or rounded off toward the brachials ; upper side straight, facing upward ; articular ridge well developed and occupying the full width of the plate.
The right posterior radial narrower than the others, its lower left side disturbed by the azj-gous piece.
The azygous plate is very large, placed in a sloping position, its two lower sides resting between two basals, its left side against the adjoining radial.
The small truncate upper side supports the first plate of the ventral sac, the right side faces the anal plate, which is always considerably smaller, and extends beyond the limits of the radials.
Brachials one or two ; short ; laterally touching their fellows of adjoining rays.
Arms 5 to 10 or more ; heavy, composed of short quadrangular joints, which change into cuneate pieces and in some species interlock.
Arm furrows wide ; pinnules strong.
Articulation between radials and brachials and between the lower arm joints by transverse ridges and fossse.
Ventral sac imperfectly known, but evidently short.
Column small, circular ; axial canal minute.
Geological Position, etc.
Gromyocrinus is found in the upper portion of the Subcarboniferous of Russia, England, Scotland, Belgium, and of the United States.
We place here the following species : 1867.
Gromyocrinus geminatus Trautschold.
Referred by us, Rev., i, p. 138, to Eupachycrinus.
*1873.
C. globosus (Worthen), Agassizocrinus globosus, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
v, p. 557, PI.
21, fig.
12.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, Illinois.
*1858.
C. globularis (De Koninck), Hydreionocrinus (?)
globularis, Memoirs de Paleont., p. 21, PI.
2, figs.
1-4.
Referred by us.
Rev.
i, p. 138, to Eupachycrinus.
Upper part of Subcarboniferous.
Near Glasgow, Scotland.
*1849.
C. nuciformis (McCoy), Poteriocrinus nuciformis, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(Ser.
ii), not P. nuciformis, Goldfuss (Fischer); also 1854, Contrib.
Brit.
Palaeont.
by Sedgwick, p. 116.
Subcarboniferous.
Derbyshire, England.
.
1879.
C. ornatus Trautschold.
Referred by us, Rev., i. p. 138, to Eupachycrinus.
*1867.
C. papillatus (Worthen), Agassizocrinus papillatus, Bull., i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 36; also Geol.
Rep. 111., vii, PI.
29, fig.
17.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., 111.
*186l.
C. sangamonensis (M. and W.), Cyathocrinus (?)
sangamonensis).
Referred by us, Rev., i, p. 1^8, to Eupachycrinus.
1867.
0. simplex Trautschold (Type of the genus).
Formerly referred by us to Eupachycrinus.
EUPACHYCRINUS M. and W., Rev., i, p. 1.33.
(Restricted, W. and Sp.).
Acceptingthe genus Gromyocrinus, we have to consider only those species in which the cup is depressed or saucer-shaped, with small underbasals hidden from view and placed at the end of the basal concavity.
These species, however, are divisible again into two groups : a, species with three azygous plates within the dorsal cup, i. e., the typical form of Eupachycrinus^ and : b, species with a small anal plate, partly extending into the equatorial regions, for which White proposed the genus Geriocrinus.
Accepting also this division (see Geriocrinus), a.nd admitting into Eupachycrinus such species as " Gromyocrinus " gracilis Wetherby, which has but five arms, and Eupachycrinus spartarius, Miller, with fourteen arms, we must modify our former generic formula so as to admit species with five to fifteen arms in place of ten, as we had previously given it.
Thus restricted, Eupachycrinus is a strictly American genus, embracing only the following species : Eupachycrinus Bassetti Worthen, E. Boydii, E. crassus, Meek and Worthen, E. formosus Worthen, E. orbicularis (Hall), E. quatuor-decim-hrachiatus (Lyon), E. subtumidus Worthen, E. tuberculatus M. and W., and E. verrucosus White, all previously reported, and perhaps also E. plafybasilis White, which is very imperfectly known, and may be a Zeacrinus.
We also place here : 1882.
Eupachycrinus asperatus Worthen, Bull, i.
111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 34; also (reol.
Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 311, PI.
29, fig.
4.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., Illinois.
*1880.
E. gracilis (Wetherby), Gromyocrinus gracilis, .Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., p. 4, PI.
16, figs.
2 a, b, c. Kaskaskia gr.
Pulaski Co., Ky. 1847.
E. maniformis (Shum.
), Zeacrinus maniformis.
This species was referred by us Rev.
i, p. 117, to Scytalocrinus.
* E. Moorei (Whitfield), Zeacrinus Moorei, Palcont.
Ohio, vol.
iii, PI.
11, figs.
6, 10.
Coal measures.
Hocking Co., 0.
(not published).
1882.
E. monroensis (Worthen), Bull, i, 111.
St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist., p. 34; also Geol, Rop.
111., vii, p. 312, PI.
19, fig.
16.
Kaskaskia gr.
Monroe Co., Illinois.
1879.
E. spartarius S. A. Miller, Journ.
Cincin.
Soe.
Nat.
Hist.
(April), PI.
8, fig.
2.
Kaskaskia limest.
Pulaski Co., Ky. Syn.
E. germanus S. A. Miller, ibid., PI.
8, fig.
3.
TRIBRACHIOCRINUS McCoy.
1847.
McCoy, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., xx, p. 228.
1859.
Pict^t, Traite de Paleont., vol.
iv, p. 321.
1884.
F. Ratte, Proceed.
Linnsean Soc.
of New South Wales, vol.
ix, Part 4.
(Diagram, PI.
6, fig.
5).
This genus was originally proposed for a single specimen from the Subcarboniferous of Australia.
According to McCoy, it differs from Gyathocrinus and allied genera by having only three arms.
The cup is described as cupuliform, large, composed of three plates in the proximal ring, 5 plates in the succeeding one, followed by 1 X 3 radials, 3 interradials, and one or two anal plates.
A similar explanation of the plates has been given lately by Mr. Ratte, who described another species in which " the second radials," the brachials according to our terminology, were preserved.
Mr. Ratte had the kindness to send us an excellent cast of the type specimen, examination of which leads us to infer that the third ring of plates in the calyx was composed of seven pieces, of which five were radials, the two others azygous plates, but that none of them are interradials.
In three of the radials, the articulating faces form a straight horizontal line, and only these plates are apposed by regular brachials, the two others, those of the two antero-lateral rays being angular and higher at their distal ends.
The general outline of the two last mentioned plates, indicates that they are compound plates, each representing a radial and a bifurcating brachial, which probably became anchylosed.
They evidently supported two arms, one at each side ; while the three radials with articulated brachials apparently bear but a single arm like Gr-omyocriyius simplex Trautchold.
Ratte observed in Tribachiocrinus corrugatiis along the ventral surface between the brachials, " the casts of very small plates, irregular in shape, which doubtless belong to the so-called voute (vault), or outer part covering the calyx as in Bhodocrinus, for instance."
We seriously doubt if these plates, which he figures on PI.
68, fig.
2, are any such thing as vault plates ; we believe if they are plates at all, that they formed a part of the disk, and as such were covering pieces.
The radials enclose the azygous plate proper and an anal piece as in most of the Poteriocrinidse, Tribachiocrinus is not such an aberrant genus, as it was supposed to be.
It is closely allied to Cromyocrinus and Agassizocrinus, and like them has large basals, comparatively small radials, and an unusually large azygous plate, followed by the anal piece and proximal plate of the ventral tube.
It differs, however, from both genera in the number of underbasals, and the peculiarities in the radial regions which have been mentioned.
Revised Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup globose ; composed of heavy plates.
Underbasals three, comparatively large ; two of them larger than the other, but not of equal size ; the smaller piece placed in a vertical line with the anterior radial (PI.
6, fig.
5).
Basals five, extremely large, very irregular in form; the posterior one heptagonal and larger than any of the rest ; that to the left pentagonal ; the three others hexagonal.
The upper side in four of the plates is angular, in the other truncate, supporting the right posterolateral radial.
Radials five ; irregular in form and size, the postero-lateral one considerably smaller than the others.
The two posterior radials as well as the anterior one pentangular, truncate above, and they support a short subquadrangular brachial ; the two anterolateral ones hexagonal, angular above, supporting on each side an arm.
The line of articulation between the three former radials and their respective brachials is widely gaping, and the mode of articulation similar to that of all later Poteriocrinidse.
The brachials, although short, are twice as wide at their union with the radials as along their upper ends, which are truncate, moderately concave, each supporting a single arm.
The two other radials, which have angular upper faces, are slightly constricted along their upper ends so as to indicate an anchylosis of brachials and radials.
Nothing is known of the ventral surface except imperfect impressions of small pieces.
The azygous plate is unusually large, subquadrangular or trapezoidal ; placed obtusely between the posterior basal and the right postero-lateral radial ; its upper angle, which extends almost to the top of the radials, is slightly truncated and supports the ventral tube, its left upper side abuts against a large subquadrangular anal plate.
Column apparently small and circular.
1847.
Tribrachiocrinus Clarkei (Type of the g^nus) McCoy, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
XX, p. 228, PI.
12, Figs.
2, a.b.c.-Pictet 1857, Traite de Paleont., Vol.
IV, p. 321.
Carboniferous.
Australia.
1884.
T. corrugatus Rs^tte, Proceed.
Linnean Soc.
of New South Wales, Vol.
IX, Pt.
4.
Carboniferous.
Australia.
b. Oraphiocrinites.
GRAPHIOCRINUS De Koninck, Rev.
i, p. 121.
GraphioGi'inus has a bilateral symmetry, and is in some respects higher developed than the preceding genera, owing to the absence of the azygous piece.
It has onl}' an anal plate, and this is small and placed between the radials, resting upon the truncate upper side of the posterior basal.
The ventral sac is cylindrical, and in Graphiocrinus rudis composed of longitudinal' rows of subquadrangular pieces.
We have not been able to examine the tube in other species, and hence are not aware whether the arrangement of these plates is of generic value.
The species heretofore referred to Graphiocrinus have but a single brachial and ten arms ; we have, however, in our collection an undescribed species with only five arms.
No additional species have been described.
BURSACRINUS M. and W., Rev.
i, p. 123.
Syu.
Synyphocrinus Trautschold, Bull., 1880.
In a paper " Ueber Symjphocrinus,^^ Trautschold described a new species from Moscow, for which he proposes the above generic designation.
He asserts that it differs from PoteiHocrinus and allied genera in having " pentagonal, roof-like second radials, and these provided along the ventral side with two thorn-like processes, separated by the tentacle furrow ; " that the third radials had similar processes and re-entering angles, overlying and covering the roof of the preceding plate; that the upper truncate side supported two bifurcating plates ; that the species had no pinnules, and that the vault rested upon the thorn-like extensions of the third radials.
We think Trautschold misunderstood his specimen.
From his own figures and descriptions it is evident that the calyx, as in other Fistulata, contained a single radial, and that all succeeding plates were free, and true arm plates.
His " second radial " is grooved for the reception of the " tentacle furrow," and, as shown by its form, a regular bifurcating plate, his remarkable " third radial " represents the two proximal arm plates, placed aside of each other, given off from the plate below.
That pinnules were present in this species is shown even by the figure in which their faces are plainly represented.
The processes at the inner side have no generic value, they are in connection with the articular faces of the plates, and are found, more or less, in all later Poteriocrinidse.
Prof. Trautschold overlooked the only important distinction between liis form and Poteriocrinus.
His species has a single anal plate within the dorsal cup, while Poteriocrinus has three.
However, in this character Synyphocrinus resembles Graphiocrinus, and especially the subgenus Bursacrinus, which has the same general form, a similar funnelshaped underbasal cup, and also branching arms.
It is possible that Poteriocrinus meekianus Shum.
(Swallow's Geol.
Rep. Missouri) is a Bursacrinus, but it may be a Barycrinus.
Only the dorsal cup is known.
Additional species : *]881.
Bursacrinus cornutus (Trautschold), Synyphocrinus cornutus, Bull.
Moscow, Ueber Synyphocrinus.
Berg-Kalk.
Mjatschkowa, Russia.
(?)
Subgen.
PHIALOCRINUS Trautschold, Rev., i, p. 124.
CEKIOCRINUS White (not Koenig).
i (Emend.
W.
andSp.).
1880.
White, U. S. Geol.
Surv.
under Hayden for 1878.
Paleont., Nos.
2-8 (Author's Ed., p. 12).
Syn.
Euijachycrinus (in part), "W. and Sp., 1878 ; M. and W., 1873.
Syn.
Eriosocrinus (in part), White, 1879.
Ceriocrinus is very interesting as representing a link between the unsymmetrical Eupachycrinus and the symmetrical Erisocrinus.
The three are very similar, and some of the species cannot be separated even specifically, unless the azygous side is exposed.
We were at first inclined to follow Meek and Worthen in placing species with one and three anal (azygous) plates under Eupachycrinus, which has three in its typical form, and to separate those only which have no azygous plates within the dorsal cup.
Our way of disposing of this question was contrary to the rules laid down by ourselves among other groups, but we took it to be a case of rapid and extravagant development, and as such possibly only of specific value.
A similar view, but in a somewhat different direction, was taken by Dr. White, who placed in his Ceriocrinus species having an " anal plate " between the radials (none below), together with species in which a similar plate is supported by the radials (beyond the limits of the dorsal cup), and he ranked Ceriocrinus as a subgenus of Erisocrinus.
^ Koenig' s genus has not been accepted (see De Loriol, Monogr.
des Crin.
Foss.
de la Suisse, 1877, p. 61).
We are not satisfied whether the piece resting upon the radials (White's fig., 5 a) is equivalent to the one between the radials (his fig., 5 c), it is at least possible that the former is the anal plate, the latter a plate of the tube, or, as it is generally called, the third anal plate.
We, therefore, cannot agree AA^ith White in considering the two forms generically identical, and much less specifically.
If the difference in the two specimens was to be explained by individual development, that perhaps the anal piece had been resorbed in the adult, the specimens should differ in size, which is not the case.
Throughout the coal-measures we find both forms side by side and of nearly equal size, a certain proof that the modification took place in the genus, and not in the individual.
We must therefore either separate the two forms generically, or unite both with Eupachycrinus.
We stated under Eupachycrinus that we separate from that genus all species with a single azygous plate, and these we place under Geriocrinus.
Contrary to White, however, we exclude those species in which that plate rests upon the radials, which we place under Erisocrinus.
Whether EiHsocrinus and Geriocrinus are full genera or only subgenera of Eupachycrinus^ or the latter two of Erisocrinus^ is a question which we leave open.
Geriocrinus occupies the same relative position to Graphiocrinus as Zeacrinus to Woodocrinus, and as Eupachycrinus to Scytalocrinus, their differences being more of degree than of kind.
We refer to Geriocrinus the following species : *]875.
C. Craigii (Worthcn), Eupachycrinus Craigii, Rev.
i, p. 138.
*1S73.
C. fayettensis (Wortlien), Eupachycrinus fayettensis, Rev.
i, p. 138.
1866.
C. inflexus (Geinitz), Cyathocrinus inflexus, Carbon, and Dj-as in Nebraska, p. 62, PI.
i, fig.
20; White, 1876, Scaphiocrinus carbonarius (not M. and W.).
Powell's Rep. Geol.
Uinta Mts., p. 89; AVhite 1880, Geriocrinus inflexus, 12th Ann.
Rep.
Terr., by Hayden for 1878 (author's ed., p. 127).
Carboniferous.
Grand and Green River.
Utah and Nebraska.
*1858.
C. hemisphericus (Shum.
), Scaphiocrinus (?)
hemisphericus, Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci., vol.
i, p. 221.
Meek 1872, Final Rep. on Nebraska, p. 147, PI.
5, Fig.
4, and PI.
7, fig.
1 ; also Geol.
Rep. 111., iii, p. 561, PI.
24, fig.
6.
Carboniferous.
This species we took (Rev.
i, p. 138) to be a synonym of Eupachycrinus Craigii, but, if Meek's identification is correct, it is a good species.
The plates, which in the latter are strongly spiniferous, are in the other but little convex.
1880.
C. planus (White), Erisocrinus planus (Type of the genus), Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol.
ii, p. 257, figs.
6-7.
White 1880, Erisocrinus (Geriocrinus) planus, 12th Ann.
Rep.
Terr., by Hayden, for 1878, Author's copy, p. 127, PI.
35, fig.
5 c (not 5 a = Erisocrinus White).
Coal measures.
Humbold River, Ky. c. Erisocrinites.
ERISOCRINUS Rev.
i, p. 1:^9.
Admitting Geriocrinus^ we place under Erisocrinus all species in which no azygous plates are represented at the dorsal side, but we also include those in which a plate of the ventral tube rests upon the radials.
In all probability was the latter piece always present in this genus.
The structure of the arms is the same as in Encrinus and Eupacliycrinus.
The only new species to be added in the list is : *18S0.
Erisocrinus Whitei W. and Sp., Erisocrinus (Ceriocrinus) planus (in part).
White 12th Ann.
Rep. Terr, by Hayden for 1878 (Author's copy, p. 127, PI.
35, Fig, 5a (not 5c = Ceriocrinus planus).
Distinguishing the specimen Fig.
5c specifically, we projiose the above name for the other to avoid confusion.
STEMMATOCRINUS Trautschold, Rev.
i, p. 141. , In Part I, we separated Stemmatocrinus from.
Erisocrinus only subgenerically, from the fact that it agrees with that genus in all its particulars, except that the underbasals consist of a single plate instead of five in the other, which we explained by anchylosis.
This explanation was doubted by Carpenter, who in the Chall.
Rep., p. 152, says : " the plate in question appears to me much more truly represented by the central pentagonal piece on which the basals rest, and it is obviously what Schultze calls ' eine fiinfseitige aus der Erweiteruug des obersten Siiulengliedes gebildete Platte.'
" And again : " the analogue of the development of the other calyx plates indicates that they (the underbasals) are primitively five separate plates like their homologues in the apical system of Ophiurids and starfishes ; and a theory which would homologize them with a plate that first appears as a simple ring seems to me to run counter all true notions of morphology."
We confess that we do not understand Carpenter's argument, for we believe Stemmatocrinus had primitively five plates, which were united by anchylosis leaving no vestige of the sutures.
Similar cases of anchylosis among basals and underbasals have been observed among other Palaeocrinoidea and even among Neocrinoidea.
In one of the two species of the recent genus Bhizocrinus, the basals are distinctly divided, in the other united by anchylosis.
In Platycrinus it is absolutely impossible to discover a suture between the basals, the anchylosis between the plates is complete, and only in comparatively few species the place of union is still indicated by a depression.
Such is the case also in Dolatocrinus and Stereocrinus.
In Agassizocrinus an anchylosis takes place between the iinderbasals, all suture lines disappear in the older specimens.
In Eupachycrinus ornatus and EupachycyHnus gemmiformis, which occur in the same bed with Stemmatocrinus cernuus, the sutures are frequently not visible, and the plates apparently constitute a solid disk which in form and proportions resembles that of Stemmatocrinus.
STEMMATOCRINUS TRAUTSCHOLDI ' nov. sp.
(PI.
9, figs.
7 and 8.)
Of large size.
Dorsal cup subglobose ; plates heavy.
Underbasals of medium size, anchylosed, forming a solid pentangular plate with concave sides, the latter with a somewhat waving outline.^ The plate is slightly convex, except the columnar attachment which is rather deeply impressed.
There are absolutely no sutures visible either upon the dorsal aspect or upon the inner floor.
The centre is perforated by a minute star-shaped canal, with raj^s directed radially.
Basals about as long as wide, pentagonal in outline, but really hexagonal, the two lower sides having together the length of the four others ; their upper sides convex.
Radials once and a half to twice as long as wide ; concave along their basi-radial suture, along their distal side slightly excavated.
The articular faces are directed upward and occupy nearly the full width of the plates.
The articulation with the brachials is by a transverse ridge with a central canal and shallow fossjfi.
Brachials two, both extremel}^ short but deep.
They are followed by several short, cuneate pieces.
The upper part of the arms is not known.
The specimens show traces of interradial plates resting against the inner edges of two radials, of which the places of attachment are plainly visible (PI.
9, fig.
8), and detached plates were placed aside of them.
Geological Position, etc.
From the Keokuk limestone near Nashville (White's Creek), Tenn.
The original specimens, some thirty in number, are in our collection.
^ In honor of Prof. Tratitschold of Moscow, Russia, the author of the genus, who had the kindness to send us a beautiful series of the Mjatschkowa Crinoids.
Family XXIII.
ENCRINID^ Pictet.
J. S. Miller refers the genus Encrinus, together with Pentacrinus, to his Articulata, Poteriocrinus to his Semiarticulata.
Zittel, and after him De Loriol, to the Articulata of Miiller ; while they refer the closely allied Poteriocrinus to Miiller's Tessellata.
The mode of articulation is identical in Encrinus and the later Poteriocrinidae, as pointed out in our general remarks on the Fistulata, and our notes on the Poteriocrinidse.
A separation, therefore, in the sense of either Miller or Miiller, cannot be eai-ried out practically.
A ventral covering was never found to be preserved in Encrinus, and as the same thing happens to be a rule among all fossil Neocrinoidea, it was postulated that this genus had an open perisome, and as such was a Neocrinoid.
However, the ventral surface is also unknown among the Poteriocrinida?, which are universally regarded as Palseocrinoids.
Neither is the absence of azygous plates in the dorsal cup exclusively found among Neocrinoidea we need only allude to Codiacrinus, Ceriocrinus and Erisocrinus nor the presence of two brachials (three radials), which was pointed out by Carpenter a good distinctive character.
The latter is a very common occurrence among tlie Poteriocrinidie, among which we failed even to make it a generic distinction.
We are willing to admit that Encrinus constitutes a transition form toward the Neocrinoidea, it is even possible that in the adult the interradials became partly or wholly resorbed, but it is otherwise so closely connected with the Poteriocrinidffi that we must regard it a Palaeocrinoid or place also the Poteriocrinidge among the Neocrinoidea.
Pictet, and after him Dujardin and Hupe, placed Encrinus under the Pycnocrinidees, which they subdivided into Encriniens, Apiocriniens and Pentaci'iniens.
This division was accepted by De Loriol in his work on the Swiss Crinoids, but in his later monograph on the Crinoids of France he followed Zittel, who made it the type of a distinct family of the Neocrinoidea.
All writers preceding us, with the exception of Zittel, described Encrinus with 3X5 radials, although the two upper plates are laterally free, and morphologically and functionally identical with the brachials of the Poteriocrinidae.
We agree with De Loriol and Zittel that Yon Meyer's genus Chelocrinus, which is based on species having a second bifurcation in the arms, cannot be sustained.
Ilis Dadocrinus, however, seems to be a good generic form, and will be treated by us as such.
We separate from the Encrinida3 Picard's Encrinus Beyrichi, which we refer to the Belemnocrinidae.
Von Meyer's genus Calathocrinus, which some writers assert to be identical with.
Encrinus, is known only from a single imperfect specimen.
ENCRINUS (Lamarck), J. S. Miller.
1816.
Lamarck, Descr.
des Aiiimaux sans vertebres (Ed.
i), vol.
ii, p. 435.
1821.
Miller, A Natural History of the Crinoidea, p. 37.
1823.
Schlotheim, Nachtr.
z. Petrefactenkuude, p. 335.
1826-33.
Goldfuss, Petrefacta.
Germ., vol.
i, p. 177.
1857.
Pictet, Traite de Paleont.
(Ed.
ii), vol.
iv, p. 337.
1857.
Beyrich (in part), Ueber die Criuoid.
d. Muschelkalk (Berl.
Acad, d. Wissenschaften).
1876.
Quenstedt, Petrefactenk.
Deutschlands, vol.
iv, p. 455.
1877.
De Loriol, Monogr.
Grin.
Foss.
de la Suisse, p. 7.
1879.
Zittel, Haudb.
d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 383.
1882.
De Loriol, Paleont.
Francaise (Ser.
I), Crinoidea, p. 6.
Syn.
Entroclms and Trocldtes Agricola ; CTielocrinus and perhaps Calathocrinus v. Meyer, (?)
Tetracrinm Gotullo, Flabellocrinui Klippstein, and (?)
Gassianocrinus Laube.
Generic Diagnosis.
Dorsal cup regularly pentamerous ; short, saucer-shaped ; composed of 5 underbasals, 5 basals and 5 radials, all equal in size and form ; there being no azygous plates.
Underbasals minute, rhomboidal, forming together a five-rayed star ; entirely covered by the top stem joint.
Basals small, hexagonal, for the greater part hidden by the column.
They rest with their lower sides between two underbasals, are laterally united, support with their sloping upper sides the radials, and form jointly a pentagon with almost straight sides.
The radials are large, subquadrangular ; their distal sides once and a half as wide as their lower or proximal sides ; they are thick, heavy, the faces toward the basi-radial suture somewhat hollowed out, showing shallow fossae, while their lateral faces indicate a syzygial union.
Brachials two, the first quadrangular, the other pentangular ; they are heavy plates with straight lateral faces by which they abut against the apposed faces of adjoining plates.
The upper plate is axillary, supporting two arms, which either remain simple, or of which one or both from the second plate branch again.
Arms massive, composed of short transverse plates, which in their upward arrangement change from quadi'angular pieces with strictly parallel sides to cuneiform and gradually interlocking plates ; some of them, however, possess a fully developed biserial arm structure.
The union between radials and first brachials, and also between the axillaries and pi'oximal arm plates is by articulation, the apposed faces having highly developed facets with transverse ridges, and a central canal and fossoe.
The two brachials are united by syzygy, as also the two proximal arm joints.
In Encrinus^ the inner floor of the dorsal cup is grooved by five primar}^ canals, which, as they pass outward, bifurcate within the basals, and the ten secondary canals thus formed proceed to the radials, and thence after dividing again to the arms.
These grooves which are by no means restricted to Encrinus or to the Neocrinoidea, are, according to P. H. Carpenter (his paper on the Oral and Apical "system of Echinoderms, Quart.
Journ.
Microsc.
Sci.
London, 1880, p, 362), passages for the fibrillar cords going out from the interradial angles of the chambered organ.
Nothing is known of the ventral surface, except in a young specimen in which we thought to observe a few plates of a ventral tube.
The interradial plates, owing to the large size of the articular facets, must have been small at any time, and possibly were absorbed in the adult.
Column composed of circular joints without cirrhi.
Geological Position^ etc.
Muschelkalk, Trias.
Germany and Switzerland.
We recognize the following species : 1847.
Encrinus aculeatus v. Meyer, Lconh.
Bronn's Jahrb., p. 576 ; also Palaeontogr.
i, 1851, p. 2G2, PI 32, fig.
1 ; also Beyrich 1857, Grin, des Muschelk., p. 38, PI.
1, figs.
16 a, b. Muschelkalk, Trias.
Upper Silurian, Germ.
1850.
E, Brahlii Owerweg, Zeitschr.
d. deutsch.
geol.
Gesellschaft, vol.
ii, p. 6; also Beyrich, 1857, Grin, des Muschelk., p. 39, PI.
2.
Muschelkalk, Trias.
Rildersdorf, Germ.
1856.
E. Carnalli Beyrich (Chelocrinus Carnalli), Zeitsch.
d. deutsch.
geol.
Gesellsch, p. 10; also Leonh, Bronn's Jahrb.
(1856), p. 28.
Muschelkalk, Trias.
RUdersdorf, Germ.
1877.
E. GrepMni De Loriol, Grinoides Foss.
de la Suisse, p. 12.
Muschelkalk.
Meyenbiihl, near Basle, Switzerl.
184 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886.
1816.
E. liliiformis Lamarck, Descr.
des Aniniaux sans vertebres, 1 edit., vol.
ii, p.
4.
'?o, Hchlotheim 1820, Petrefactenk., p. .3.35.
Agassiz, 1835, Prodr.
Mem.
?oc.
Sci.
nat.
de Neuchatel, vol.
i, p, 195.
Dujardin (in Lamarck), 1840, Descr.
des Animaux sans vertebres, 2me edit., vol.
ii, p. 651.
Desor, 1845, Notice sur les Crinoides Suisses, p. 3; Bull.
Soc.
Sci.
nat.
de Neuchatel, vol.
i, p. 211.
Pictet, 1857, Trait6 de Paleont., 2me edit., vol.
iv, p. 337, P!.
102, fig.
4.
Bej'rich, 1857, Ueber die Crin.
des Muschelkalkes, p. 1, PI, 1, fig.
112.
Strombeck, 1856, Ueber Missbildimgen von E. liliiformis, Palajontographica, vol.
iv, p. 168, PI.
31.
Dujardin et Hupe, 1862, Suites a BuflFon Echinoderm.
*, p. 164.
Coster, 1865; Syn.
des Echin.
des Alpes Suisses, p. 10; Moesch, 1867, der Aargauer Jura, pp.
26, 27-30 (Beitriige z.
(icol.
Karte der Schweiz, 4te Liefer.
); Greppin, 1870, Descr.
geol.
du .Jura bernois, p. 13.
Moesch, 1874, der slidliche Aargauer Jura, p. 4, Anbang, p. 6.
Quenstedt, 1876, Petrefactenk.
Deutschl., vol.
iv, p. 455, PI.
106, figs.
14.3-184.
Bronn, Klassen des Thierreichs ( Actinozoa), vol.
ii, PI.
29, fig.
3.
De Loriol, Crinoid.
Foss.
de la Suisse, 1877, p. 9.
Zittel, Handb.
d.
Palreont., i, p. 383.
Muschelkalk Trias.
Grermany and Switzerland.
Si/u.
Lily encrinite, 1808, Lamarck, Organ.
Remains, vol.
ii, p. 14, figs.
1-3.
Syii.
Encrinites moniliformis Miller, 1821, A Nat.
Hist, of the Crinoidea, p. 37, PI.
1, 2, 3 ; also Goldfuss, 1826-33, Petrefacta Germ., vol.
i, p. 177, PI.
54.
Si/n.
Pentacrinus entroclia Blainville, 1834, Manual d'Actinologie, p. 257, PI.
28, fig.
2, and ibid., p. 657. iS"?/)!.
Encrinus entrocha D'Orbigny, 1839, Monogr.
des Crinoid., PI.
18; also D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodrome, vol.
i, p. 178.
1835.
Encrinites Schlotheimi Quenstedt, Wiegm.
Arch., ii, p. 227, vol.
4, fig.
1 ; also 1852, p. 614; also Chelocrinus Schlotheimi H. v. Meyer, 1837, in Leonh.
Bronn's Jahrb., p. 316, and Mus.
Senkenb., ii, 1837, p. 262, vol.
16, fig.
9 ; also Bronn, Lethaja (Edit.
3), Bd.
iii, 1851, p. 48, vol.
13, fig.
3.
E. Bey rich.
Ueber die Crinoid.
des Muschelk., 1857, p. 34, vol.
i, fig.
13.
Muschelkalk, near Giittingen, Germany.
Sytt.
Chelocrinus pentactinus H. v. Meyer, 1837, Leonh.
Bronn's Jahrb., p. 316; also 1837, Mus.
Senkenb., ii, p. 262, vol.
16, fig.
8; also L. v. Buch, 1848, in Leonh.
Bronn's Jahrb., p. 690.
Syn.
Encrinus liliiformis, Ueber Missbildungen, Strombeck, 1849, Zeitschr.
d. deutsch.
geol.
Gesellsch., i, p. 163; 1855, Paltpontogr., iv, p. 177.
Syn.
Encrinus pentactinus, Bronn, 1837, Leonh.
Bronn's Jahrb , p. 30, vol.
2, 1851; also Lethaea Geogn.
(Ed.
3), Bd.
iii, p. 47, PL 13, fig.
1.
Also Geinitz, 1838, Leonh.
Bronn's Jahrb., p. 530.
DADOCRINUS v. Meyer.
1847.
V. Meyer, Leonh, Bronn's Jahrb,, p. 575.
ISol.
V. Meyer, Palaeontographica, i, p. 266.
Syn.
Encrinus (in part), L. v, Buch, Bericht Berl.
Acad., 1845, p. 27 ; also Beyrich, Ueber Criuoideen des Muschelk., p. 42 ; also De Loriol, 1877, Crin.
Foss.
de la Suisse, p. 8 ; also Zittel, Handb.
d.
Palseont., i, p. 383.
This genus has not been accepted by Beyricli, Zittel, nor De Loriol.
It was proposed by H. v. Meyer for a species previously described by L. v. Buchi under the name of Encrinus gracilis.
The latter has a turbinate calyx, underbasals (observed by Beyrich not by H. v, Meyer), an apparently round stem; ten arms which are not very closely folded, composed of cuneiform flat joints, and pinnules which are alternately arranged.
The totally different form of the dorsal cup seems to us sufficient to warrant the generic separation.
L. v. Buch's t3"pical specimen came from Recaoro, Italy, and was supposed by Beyrich to be identical with certain fragments which had been discovered in the Trias of Upper Silesia, too imperfect, however, for critical comparison.
From this locality a more perfect specimen was found lately by Mr. n. Kunisch, who figured and described it in the Zeitschrift d. deutsch.
geol.
Gesellsch.
Jahrg., 1883, under the title " Ueber den ausgewachsenen Zustand von Encrinus gracilis Buch."
We cannot altogether agree with Mr. Kunisch in his views.
The Silesian species is, in our opinion, essentially different from the Italian one.
The column is pentagonal in place of circular; the arms rounded, angular at the outer face, and the pinnules are given off alternately from every second joint, every other one being united by syzygy ; contrary to the typical species, which has flat arms, cuneiform joints, and of which every joint is pinnule-bearing.
The distinctions are so obvious that a specific separation is necessary, and we propose for the Silurian species the name Dadocrinus Kunischi.
To explain the diversity in the arm-structui-e by individual growth is at variance with the observations made upon recent as well as fossil Crinoids.
We agree that the arms undergo important modifications in their growth, but we do not find cuneate arm joints turning into quadrangular ones, though frequently the opposite is the case ; nor that single joints are undergoing segmentations and are uniting again by syzygy.
The angles of the column in Dadocrinus Kunischi are directed interradially, thus proving theoretically the base to be dicyclic, which could not be ascertained from the specimen.
We propose the following : Bevised Generic Diagnosis.
Form of dorsal cup obconical.
Underbasals small, covered by the column ; basals forming an elongate hexagonal cup.
Radials comparatively smaller than in Encrinus, but yet twice as large as the basals.
Brachials in number, form and articulation as in Encrinus.
Arms long, uniserial, composed of single or compound joints, the latter united 13 by syzygy ; pinnules long, and placed far apart.
Column round or pentangular, with or without cirrhi.
1845.
Dadocrinus gracilis (L. v. Buuh), v. Meyer, Encrinus gracilis, Bericht d. Ber).
Acad., p. 27.
Dadocriuus gracilis H. v. Meyer (Type of the genus), 1847, Leonh.
Bronn's Jahrb., p. 675; also Palaeontogr., i, p. 266, PI.
31, fig.
2 and PI.
32, figs.
4, 5, 6 ; PI.
31, figs.
9, 13; PI.
32, fig.
7.
Encrinus gracilis Beyrich, Ueber die Crin.
d.
Muschelk., p. 42, PI.
1, fig.
15.
Muschelkalk Trias.
Recaoro, Italy.
1884.
D. Kunischi W. and Sp.
Described and figured by Mr. Kuniseh as Encrinus gracilis, Zeitschr.
d. Deutsch.
geol.
Gesellsoh., Jahrg., 1883, p. 195, with plate.
Muschelkalk.
Upper Silesia.
Family XXIV.
A.STYLOCRINIDJE Roemer.
The Asty locrinidae embrace only the genus Agassizocrinus, vfh\ch.
Pictet referred to the Comatulidse, Zittel to the Poteriocrinidje.
Roemer included in this family Marsupites.
We place here provisionally the genus Udriocrinus, which, however, in all probability, forms a family by itself, being sessile in early life, and having no underbasals.
AGASSIZOCRINUS Troost.
(PI.
5, fig.
17.)
1850.
Troost, Journ.
Am.
Ass.
Adv.
Sci.
Camb.
Meeting, p. 69.
1851.
Owen and Shum., Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pbila.
(n.
ser.
), vol.
ii.
1853.
Shumard, Marcy's Rep. Red River Exped., of Louisiana, p. 173.
1852.
Owen and Shuin., Geol.
Rep.
la., Wise, and Minn., p. 597, 1858.
Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, Pt.
ii, p. 684.
1873.
Worthen, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
v, p. 556.
1874.
Meek, Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
(Ser.
3;, vol.
vii, No.
41, p. 484.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. PaL-eontologie, i, p. 861.
Syn.
Astylocrinus, 1854, F. Roemer, Letb.
Geogn.
(Ausg.
8), p. 229; also Dujardinand Hupe, 1862, Hist, natur des Zoopb.
Ecbin., p. 159.
The name Agassizocrinus appears in Troost's List of the Crinoids of Tennessee, but the genus was not defined until 18.53, when Shumard, in Marcy's Report on the Red River Expedition, published Troost's MS. of Agassizocrinus dactylifor-mis, which he accompanied with a short generic description of his own.
Astylocrinus wa,s proposed by Roemer as late as 1855, when he described under the name Astylocrinus laevis, a nearly perfect specimen from a plaster cast, sent to him by Shumard's brother with Troost's name Agassizocrinus dactyliformis attached.
There cannot be the least doubt as to the priority of Agassizocrinus, but it is probable that Roemer's specimen, which was Troost's type, is specifically distinct from the one figured by Shumard under Troost's name, and hence we recognize Roemer's specific name.
t Detached plates of Agassizocrinus are found in great abundance throughout the Kaskaskia group, but perfect calices are extremely rare.
The cause of this is perhaps explained by the mode in which the different plates are'united with one another.
Only the underbasals seem to have been united by common suture, and these, as a rule, are the onlj^ plates which are not found disconnected in the fossil.
The apposed faces of the succeeding plates are vei'tically and horizontally provided with rather conspicuous ramifying furrows, which enter the surface of the plates (PL 5, fig.
17).
The ramifications vary somewhat, even among corresponding plates, but those of apposed faces correspond with each other, and together form small tunnels, which branch once or twice, grrowinonarrower at their outer ends.
Between basals and underbasals there are generally three of these furrows to each plate ; but they unite to one on entering the underbasal cavity, where they seem to communicate with certain pits or openings, which have been overlooked by previous writers.
The underbasals form an almost solid disk, with a shallow, cupshaped inner cavity.
The latter contains six deep pits or chambers, closed at the bottom, a central one surrounded by five others.
These pits either contained the lower part of the chambered organ, or they indicate where the vessels extended down from the chambers into the larval stem.
It is possible that the axial canals which descend from the body cavity were lodged in these chambers, together with the vessels of the latter, and this might explain the apparent communication of the pits with the radiating furrows above mentioned.
But it may be possible, also, that the furrows lodged groups of ligamentous fibres, by which the union of the plates was rendered firmer and closer than it would be when only two smooth surfaces were apposed.
The plates, however, as a general rule, are found to be disconnected, and the radials at their lateral faces possess fossae, thus proving there existed a certain degree of mobility between the calyx plates generally.
Similar ramifying furrows were discovered by us in the genus BaryctHnus between the apposed articular facets of radials and brachials, plates which evidently were not united by a close suture.
Agassizocrinus in the earlier stages was attached by a column, but led a free life later on, when the scar to which the stem had been attached was gradually obliterated, so as to leave no traces behind.
The secretion of calcareous matter extended over the greater part of tlie underbasal disk, whicli became more elongate, until at last the suture lines between the plates disappeared entirely, although in the j'oung Crinoid these are well marked.
Owing to the very considerable clwinges of form, which occur in the growing animal, it is extremely' difficult to identifj' the species of this genus, and we fear that several of those described represent merely different stages of the same species.
Agassizocrinus globosus and A. papillatus Worthen have been referred by us to Cromyocrinus ; his A. hemispJiericus, in wliicli the underbasals do not extend beyond the column, is either Eupachycrinus or Scytalocrinus, probabl3^ the latter.
Generic Diagnosis.
Form of calyx elongate, composed of massive plates, and containing a comparatively small visceral cavity.
TJnderbasals extremely large ; obconical ; almost solid ; witli a very small inner cavity.
Young specimens have an articuLir scar for the attachment of a column, pierced by an axial canal ; this, however, becomes obliterated soon after the Crinoid enters free life.
The inner cavity lodges the chambered organ, and is provided with six deep pits, a central one surrounded by five others, which either constitute the chambers of this organ or their lower extensions.
Basals large, three of them hexagonal, two heptagonal, but they appear to be pentagonal and hexagonal, owing to the convex form of the two lower sides.
The heptagonal plates enclose, and partly support, the azygous pieces, consisting of the azygous plate proper, which has a sloping position and is generally large, a smaller anal plate, and the first plate of the ventral tube.
The size and form of the tube is not known, but it was evidently small, perhaps similar to that of Gromyocrinus, with which Agassizocrinus agrees in the arrangement of its azygous plates.
Radials unusually small ; wider than high ; the upper face truncate ; they are all pentagonal, four of them of nearly equal size, the fifth one considerably smaller and of irregular form.
The articular facets are on a level with the outer edges of the plates, they are somewhat extended inward, and pierced by a transverse axial canal.
The articulation between calyx and arms is regularly bifacial, resembling that between the oval stem-joints of Plalycrinus.
The brachials are single, axillary, and abut laterally against each other.
The arms are long, rather stout, rounded, and composed of short, cuneate pieces.
Pinnules strong.
The mode of union between the plates of the calyx is variable.
The underbasals -were united by a common suture, the lines of which in the adult Crinoid are completely obliterated.
The basals possess, among each other, and where they meet the underbasals and radials, ramifying furrows along their faces, which, together with similar furrows on apposed faces, form tunneled passages, probably containing ligament ; the lateral faces of the radials, however, are excavated for fossae.
Geological Position, etc.
Restricted, so far as known, to the Kaskaskia group of America.
The following species have been described : 1873.
Agassizocrinus carbonarius "Worthen, Geol.
Kep, III., v, p. 566, PL 24, fig.
4, Coal measures.
Shelby Co., III.
1873.
A. cliesterensis Worthen, Geol.
Rep. 111., v, p. 558, PI, 21, fig.
9.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, 111.
1851.
A. conicus Owen and Shum., Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(n.
ser.
), vol.
ii, p. 93, PI.
xi, fig.
6.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa, Wise, and Wmn., p. 697, PI.
5 b, fig.
6.
Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, PI.
21, fig.
8.
Kaskaskia limest.
Chester, Illinois.
1858.
A. constrictus Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, p. 687, PI.
25, fig.
10.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, Illinois.
1850.
A, dactyliformis Troost, Type of the genus.
List Crin.
Tenn. Cainbr.
Meet., p. 6U; Shum.
1853, Marcy's Rep. Red River, p. 173.
Hall 1858, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, p. 685, with diagram.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, III., and Crittenden Co., Ky. 1S58.
A gibbosus Hall, Geol.
Rep. Iowa, vol.
i, p. 686, PL 25, fig.
6.
Worthen 1873, Geol.
Rep. 111., v, PL 21, fig.
11.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, IlL A. gracilis Troost is a catalogue name.
*1855.
A. laevis (Roemer), A.stylocrinus laevis (Second type of the genus), Leth.
Geogn.
(Ausg.
3), p. 229, PL 4, fig.
13.
Kaskaskia gr.
*1852.
A. occidentalis Owen and Shum.
(Poteriocrinus oocidentalis), Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
(n. ser), vol.
ii, p. 92, PL xi, tig.
6; also Geol.
Surv.
of Iowa, Wise, and Minnes., p. 596, PL v 6, fig.
4.
(Probably a young specimen of A, gibbosus Hall).
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, Illinois.
A. pantagonus Worthen, Geol.
Rep.
III., v, p. 556, PL 21, fig.
10.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, Illinois.
1862.
A. tumidus Owen and Shum., Journ.
Acnd.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., vol.
ii, p. 90, PL xi, fig.
3 ; also 1852, Geol.
Surv.
of luwa.
Wise, and Mianes., p. 595, PL v b, fig.
3.
Kaskaskia gr.
Chester, Illinois.
(?)
EDRIOCRINTJS Hall.
1859.
Hall, Pal.
Rep. N. York, vol.
ill, pp.
199 and 143.
1832.
Hall, loth Kep.
N. York.
St C.ib.
Nat.
Hist., p. 115.
183S.
Meek au I Worthen, Gaol.
Rip.
Illluois, vol.
ill, p. 119.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 350.
1883.
P. H. Carpenter, Ann and Ma^^ Nat.
Hist.
(May, 1883), p. 333.
Edriocrinas led a life similar to that of Agassizocrinus, being attached in its larval state, and free-floating in the adult.
It differs from that genus, however, in having no underbasals and no stem, being simply attached by the basals.
In its sessile state it resembles the recent genus Holopus, with which it also agrees in having an undivided base.
Generic Diagnosis, etc.
Sessile in its larval state ; free-floating in the adult, being attached by tlie lower end of the basals.
Basals unusually large, elongate, closely anchylosed so as to show no suture lines at the outer face; internally, however, there are indications that the base might have been bisected.
In the young animal the form of the base is irregular and linear, in the adult subglobose or deeply bowl-shaped, and the scar by which the animal was attached, becomes totally obliterated by heavy deposits of calcareous matter.
Owing to this deposit the outer form of the base differs considerably from the form of the inner cavity, which grows gradually narrower toward the bottom, and frequentl}^ ends in a sharp point.
The walls are massive at their lower parts, thin at the upper edge, which shows six excavated faces for the attachment of five radials and an anal plate.
Radials comparatively small, quadrangular, articular facet but slightly excavated, occupying the full width of the plates ; provided with a transverse articular ridge.
The anal plate is in line with, and has the length of the radials, but is narrower ; it supports a small plate, but beyond that nothing is known of the anal apparatus.
The structure of the ventral surface has not been observed.
The arms are broad at the base, composed of extremely' short transverse pieces, of which ten or more occur between the first bifurcation.
Nothing is known of pinnules, nor of the condition of the ventral furrow.
Geological Position, etc.
Edriocrinus occurs in the Helderberg group of America, in which portions of the basal cup are rather abundant.
1859.
Edriocrinus pocilliformis Hall, Pal.
Rep. N. York, iii, p. 121, PI.
5, figs.
8-12 ; also 1868, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, iii, p. 370, PI.
7, figs.
5 a, 6.
Lower Helderberg gr.
Albany, New York and Perry Co., Mo.
1862.
E. pyriformis Hall, 15tli Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 116, PI.
1, figs.
23 and 24.
Upper Helderberg gr.
Utica, New York.
1859.
E. saoculus Hall, type of the genus.
Pal.
Rep. N. York, vol.
iii, p. 143, PI.
87, figs.
1-22.
Oriskany sand.st.
Cumberland, Maryland.
I Family XXV.
CATILLOCRINID^ W. and Sp.
The group of Crinoids for which we propose the name Catillocrinidfe consists only of the genera Catillocrinus and 3Iycocrinus, which have been distinctly separated by all previous writers.
Catillocrinus, which was described by Meek and Worthen as closely allied to Symbathocrinus, was referred by Zittel and De Loriol to the Pisocrinidae, which we regard as a mere subdivision of the S3^mbathocrinid8e.
The form, when we include the arms, is similarly cylindrical, the arms rest likewise directly upon the first radials, and are composed of a single series of plates.
Pisocrinus even has irregular radials, which is so characteristic of this family, but beyond that the two groups are quite distinct.
Mycocrinus, according to Schultze, forms a family by itself.
He took it to be a Crinoid without arms, which, in place of arms, he thought had been provided along the ventral surface with numerous ambulacral grooves.
Zittel, and also De Loriol, have placed Mycocrinus among the genera which were said to be imperfectly known.
In the Catillocrinidse, the calyx is composed of only two series of plates, and these are most remarkable for their extremely irregular form and distribution.
The radials are massive, especially at the upper margins, where they are transversely truncated on the same plane all round.
The radial plates differ in form and size.
Those of the two antero-lateral raj^s, as a rule, are much larger than the three others, but, while at their upper margin they are from three to six times as wide as the others, all are at the basi-radial suture about equal in width.
The anterior, and both postero-lateral rays, rarely possess more than one arm each, but in the two antero-lateral ones the arms are always numerous.
Every arm articulates directly upon the truncate upper margin of the radial without the aid of axillary pieces, and remains simple from the base up.
The arms are in contact all around the calyx, and are composed of a single series of very similar pieces.
They connect with the inner cavity by a peculiar groove, which follows the truncate upper face of the radials.
This groove contains the ambulacral canal and food passage, and there is underneath, separated by a solid partition, another groove, which near the inner margin penetrates the plate, and takes a distinctly downward course toward the inner cavity, which throughout this family is exceedingly small.
The ventral surface has not been observed, but there is sufficient evidence to prove that it was similar to that of the other Fistulata.
Catillocrinus has its closest affinities with Galceocrinus.
The radials of the three anterior rays agree in form and distribution so closel3'^ with the radials of Galceocrinus, that we thoiight at first that it also possessed but three ra3S, and that the two irregular plates toward the posterior side were anals and not radials.
This interpretation had to be given up when we found both these plates to be arm-bearing.
In Galceocrinus the postero-lateral rays are entirely absent or transformed into anal plates ; while in Gatillocrinus those rays are represented in a rudimentary form.
The Catillocrinidae are meagre in forms and belong to the rarest Crinoids.
The^^ are restricted, so far as known, to the Devonian of Europe and to the Subcarbouiferous of America.
CATILLOCRINUS Troost.
(PI.
5, figs.
15, 15oandl6.)
1850.
Troost, List.
Crin.
Term.
Proc.
Amer, Assoc.
Ad.
Sci., p. 60.
1830.
Sliumard, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. 358.
1868.
Meek aud Wortlien, Geol.
Rep. 111., vol.
iii, p. 4G5.
1873.
Meek aud Wortheu, Ibid., vol.
v, p. 504.
1879.
Zittel, Handb d. Palseontologie, vol.
i, p. 348.
1883.
De Loriol, Paleontologie FraiiQaise, Crinoids, vol.
xi, p. 46.
Syn.
Nematocrinua Meek and Worthen, 1866, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 251.
Troost published the name Gatillocrinus in his List of the Crinoids of Tennessee, without generic diagnosis.
The first description was given in 1866, by Shumard,.in a foot-note to his Catalogue of the Palaeozoic Fossils of North America, from specimens of Gatillocrinus Tennesseae.
He described the calj^x as composed of three series of plates : the "basals " which were said to be covered by the column, and the " primary " and "secondary radials."
Through the kindness of the late Dr. James Knapp of Louisville we have had an opportunity to examine several well preserved calices of the above species, and can state positively that it has but two series of plates.
It seems tbat Shumard took the proximal joint of the column, which is generally attached, for basal plates, and the edges of the basal disk proper for " primary," the true radials for " secondary" radials.
Of Gatillocrinus Wachsmuthi no descriptions were given of the plates in the calyx, but the arm structure of the genus was here for the first time described.
Meek and Worthen, who had not seen Shumard's description of Gatillocrinus, and being unacquainted with the arrangement of plates, referred their species at first to Symbathocrinus, not, however, to the typical form, but to a new subgenus, for which they proposed the name Nematocrinus.
On a republication of the species, in vol.
iii, of the Geological Report of Illinois, the above name was abandoned, and the species placed under Catillocrinus.
In Catillocrinus Bradleyi, Meek and Worthen undertook to describe also the plates of the calyx, but without appljang to them their proper terms.
They simply designated them as plates of a first and of a second series, except a few plates in the second series which they introduced as " anals (?)."
Of the five plates in this series, three are easily recognized as radials, but also the two others, although much smaller and very irregular in form, are radials, as both are arm bearing.
The one toward the right supports at one end an arm, at the other an elongate naiTow anal plate, which abuts against the sides of the proximal arm joints, and has nearly their form, being only somewhat larger.
Bigsby (Thesaurus Devonico-Carboniferus, p. 224) places Catillocrinus as a sj'nonym of Calceocrinus.
We propose the following : Revised Generic Diagnosis.
General form, when the arms are folded, elongate-cylindrical.
Calyx in form of a shalluw basin or cup, concave at the bottom, uniformly truncate at the upper margin.
It is composed of two series of plates : the upper one supporting the arms, which are very numerous.
Test exceedingly thin along the basals, thickening rapidly upwards.
The basal disk is apparently undivided ; the greater part hidden by the column.
It is irregularly pentagonal, three of its sides being nearly equal, the other two, which are adjoining, equal to one-half the larger ones.
The side opposite the two smaller sides extends considerably bej'ond the column, while at the other side the basal disk is either altogether invisible, or reduced to a very narrow band.
This want of regularity has been observed in all specimens, and seems to be characteristic of the genus.
Radials five, verj' irregular in form, those of the antero-lateral rays much larger than the rest.
The two larger plates, whose upper margins constitute fully three-fourths of the periphery at the top of the radials, occupy together less than one-half of the circumference of the basal cup.
This disproportion is caused b}'the peculiar form of the other radials, which, notwithstanding the great spreading of the calyx, diminish in width upwards.
The anterior radial is much smaller, heart-shaped, with strongl}convex lateral edges, which converge almost to a point at the top of the cal^'x.
The basi-radial suture is somewhat concave, and fully as wide as that of the larger plates.
The two postero-lateral radials together are very little larger than the anterior one ; that toward the right is smaller, very narrow, wider at the bottom than at the top, and triangular when the sides are straight ; but when these are curved, which is moi^e frequently the case, it is somewhat lunate.
The other radial is quadrangular, fully twice as high as wide, and of equal width throughout.
The articular surface of the radials is provided with conspicuous grooves and intervening ridges, the former with a depression near the outer margin of the plate.
The grooves along the surface take a tortuous or undulating course, and near their inner end turn rather abruptly toward the anterior radial.
The latter plate has generally but one groove, which is deeper than any of the others and perfectly straight, but when it has two grooves, as is exceptionally the case in Catillocrinus Tennessese^ these unite before entering the inner cavity.
The two larger radials contain numerous grooves the number varying with the species that toward the right, as a rule, has more than the one on the left.
The former radial has been observed to have in G. Tennesseae 27 to 31 grooves, in C Wachsmuthi 16 to 20; the plate toward the right in the former species has from 21 to 23, the opposite one 15 grooves.
The two small irregular radials have, so far as observed, only one groove each.
In perfect specimens, the grooves are lined by two rows of short, transverse pieces, which partly cover the groove, but leave underneath a good-sized passage.
The plates rest upon the ridges, whei'e they abut against their fellows from adjoining grooves.
With the exception of the ridges and grooves, the truncated upper side of the radials forms a uniform plane, interrupted only by a small elevation along the left side of the quadrangular radial.
This elevation is occupied by a small, elongate anal plate, which abuts against the two proximal joints of adjoining arms.
The 1 plate is placed on a level with the arm joints, has a like width and, therefore, is easily mistaken for an arm plate.
The anal plate supports a very stout appendage, composed of a single row of exceedingly large and heavy plates, longitudinally arranged, which, instead of forming into a tube as in the case of other Fistulata, are transversely curved like arm joints, leaving a rather shallow, semicircular furrow on the inner side.
These plates are along their back extremely heav}'', as thick as the radials at their upper margins, but they thin out toward their ends, and approaching the furrow become extremely delicate.
The proportions of the plates are well shown by our figure of Gatillocrinus Wachsmuthi (PL 5, fig.
16), in which five of these plates occupy an .inch, while in the same space there are seventeen arm joints.
It must be further mentioned that up to that point the plates suffered no diminution in height nor in width, nor is there any decrease in the thickness of the wall, which in Catillocrinus Wachsmuthi, at the top of the fifth joint, is nearly two thirds of the whole width of the appendage.
The cross section is semilunular except at the base.
The stoutness of the plates on the one side, and the grooved structure on the other, are perhaps due to the great thickness of the radial plates upon which the tube rests; it had to be so necessarily in order to effect a communication with the inner cavity of the calyx.
The groove was probably covered during life by perisomic plates.
No traces either of a vault or a disk have been observed.
The arms rise directly from the truncated summits of the radials, without the intervention of axillary plates.
There is an arm to every groove, and, hence, some of the radials, contrary to the rule in other Crinoids, support a large number of arms from the same level.
The arms are simple, slender, comparatively long, scarcely rounded outwardly, of almost uniform size, and when closed they appear as if united into a solid wall.
The arm joints are quadrangular, much longer and somewhat deeper than wide, with parallel sutures.
Arm furrows deep, triangular.
The column is circular, composed of thin joints, the upper part is very stout but tapers rapidly downward.
Geological Position, etc.
The genus is apparently restricted to the Upper Burlington and Keokuk divisions of the Subcarboniferous of Aimerica.
196 tROCEEDtNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886.
The following species have been described : 1865.
Catillocrinus Bradleyi, Meek and Worthen, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila., p. ;'.42; also 1868, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
v, p. 504, PI.
14, figs.
10 a, 6.
Keokuk limest.
Crawfordsville, Ind.
ISjO.
Catillocrinus Tennesseae Troost (Type of the genus).
List Crin.
Tenn., Proceed.
Aiuer.
Assoc, p. 60.
Sliumard, 1868, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. 358.
Keokuk limest.. Button-mould Knob, near Louisville, Ky. 1866.
Catillocrinus Wachsmuthi, Meek and AVorthen.
(Symbathocrinus [Nematocrinus] Wachsmuthi.)
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 251.
Catillocrinus Wachsmuthi, 1868, Geol.
Rep. 111., iii, p. 465, PI.
18, fig.
5.
Upper Burlington limest.
Burlington, Iowa.
MYCOCRINUS Schultze.
1866.
Schultze, Monogr.
Echin, Eifl.
Kalk., p. 223.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. False outologie, voL i, p. 380.
Schultze supposed that Mycocrinus had no arms, but his own figures and description indicate the contrary.
The radials are provided close to the peripliery, and in Iront of the ambulacral grooves, with well developed articular facets, pierced by transverse slits.
Mycocrinus resembles the last described genus very closely, but differs in the bipartite basal disk, the greater symmetry and regularity in the arrangement of the radials, and in the general form.
We offer the following : Revised Generic Diagnosis.
Calyx in form of a mushroom, constructed of two series of plates, the upper series forming the thallus, the lower the stalk.
The plates are massive, of very irregular form, and without ornamentation.
Basals two, large, unequal ; one of them twice as large as the other.
They are very heavy and form a distinct, subglobose, knob-like body, slightly truncate below for the reception of the column.
Its upper side rises to form a low five-sided pyramid, near the outer margins of which there are twelve narrow slits parallel to the edges.
Two of the sides have three slits each, the three others two each.
Radials five, resting with their inner edges upon the angular margin of the basal disk, each plate facing one of the five sides of the pyramid.
They spread broadly outward from the edge of the basals, and extend far beyond their outer margins.
Two of the radials are of equal width, much larger than the rest.
These two are separated from one another at one side by two equal, much smaller plates, at the other by a single plate somewhat larger than the two others.
The single plate is more than one-balf narrower above than below, owing to an angular extension at the lower half of its two lateral faces, which fit closely into the adjoining excavated side of the large radials.
Similar processes arise from the sides of the two smaller plates, but here only along the suture toward the larger one, the opposite suture being perfectly straight.
B}^ means of the lateral extensions, the large radials, which at their basi-radial suture have nearlj^ the same width as the smaller ones, attain at their upper face three times the width of the other plates.
The articular surface of the radials is truncated, unusually thick, and closely resembles that of Catillocrinus.
Mycocrinus boletus must have had fifteen arms, for there are fifteen rather shallow ambulacral grooves, which pass from near the periphery of the cal3^x to the radial centre.
There are six upon each of the two large radials, and one upon each of the two smaller ones.
The six grooves upon the two larger radials unite into one, and hence there are but five main trunks entering the inner cavity.
The median part of every groove has a deep linear furrow, which takes a somewhat downward course, and penetrates the walls of the radials.
Close to the peripliery, outside of each groove, there is a well-marked slit-like axial canal, making fifteen in all, which pierce the radials throughout their full length, and enter the upper margins of the basals.
These canals or tunneled passages are evidently axial canals, which entered through the twelve slit-like openings at the inner floor of the basals the chambered organ, and as such communicated with the arms.
The body cavity is very small, its width not equaling the thickness of the radials ; its depth being less even than its width.
Form of the arms, construction of summit and anus unknown.
The column seems to have been circular, with a small, round central canal.
The only species is : 1866.
Mycocrinus boletus Schultze, Monogr.
Eehin.
Eifl.
Kalk., p. 222, PI.
7, fig.
4.
Stringocephalenkalk, Devonian.
Nollenbach (Eifel), Germany.
Family XXVI.
CALCEOCRINID^ Meek aud W. 1878.
Meek and Worthen, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, v, p. 443.
1883.
De Loriol, Paleont.
Franqaise, vi (Crinoides), p. 51.
Syn.
ChirocrinidcB, Angelin, 1878, Icon.
Criu.
Suec, p. 23.
Syn.
CheirocrinidcB, Zittel, 1879, Handb.
d.
Palaeont., i, p. 357.
The only known genus of this family has been variously referred to Cheirocrinus aud Calceocrinus.
As early as 1851, Hall, in the Geological Report of New York, vol.
ii, p. 352, gave notice of a peculiar Crinoid from the Niagara group, of which he had obtained what appeared to be a bipartite base or pelvis showing a columnar attachment, for which he proposed the name Galceocrinus.
In 1860, in the 13th Regents Report of the New York State Cabinet of Nat.
Historjj the same author described under Cheirocrinus six new species of American Crinoids having a base similar to Calceocrinus^ and which evidently belonged to that or a very closely allied genus.
According to Salter (Murchisou's Siluria of 1859), the name CJieirocrinus had been used by Austin in MS. for a similar form from the Wenloek limestone, but Eichwald had already in 1856 preoccupied the name for a certain type of Cystidea.
Shumard was the first writer to direct attention to the probable identity of Calceocrinus with Hall's Cheirocrinus, and in his Catalogue of the Palaeozoic Fossils of North America he added the name Calceocrinus in parenthesis to all described species of Cheirocrinus.
In this he was followed in 1869 by Meek and Worthen, and in 1879, Hall himself adopted Calceocrinus, while both Angelin and ZiJ-tel have retained Cheirocrinus.
It seems to us the latter name, according to established rules, cannot be upheld for Hall's type, because it was preoccupied by Eichwald for a Cystid, and even if it be true, as asserted by F. Schmidt (Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
St. Petersburg, Ser.
ii, vol.
xi, No.
11), that Eichwald 's Cheirocrinus is identical with Glyptocystites, which has priority, this would not alter the case.
The same view was evidently taken by Meek and Worthen, who proposed, in case doubt should arise as to its identity with Hall's tj-pe of Calceocrinus, to change the name Cheirocrinus into Eucheirocrinus.
We would accejot the latter name, had not Hall himself, who had the best opportunity to compare the type specimens, given preference to Calceocrinus.
Bigsby, in the Thesaurus DevouicoCarboniferus, erroneously placed the genus Catillocrinus as a synonym under Calceocrinus.
Calceocrinus was made by Meek and Worthen, in 1873, the type of a distinct family, for which they introduced the name " Calceocrinidae.
''^ This was adopted by De Loriol, but Angelin and Zittel in their classification apply the name ''' Cheirocrinidse.^^ Calceocrinus difi"ers in external appearances so essentially from all other Crinoids, that Hall introduced for its description a special terminology, which was adopted by all succeeding writers.
In this special names were given to parts of the calyx, which, as we will presently show, are represented in other genera, and hence should be designated by the same name, the more since some of his appellations conflict seriously with terms long ago established.
Hall divided the calj-x into two parts.
The one, which he called the " dorsal side," comprises the anterior side and not, as should be expected from the name, the aboral part ; the other, which he designated as the " ventral side," by which are usually understood the oral or summit portions, represents the posterior side.
According to Hall, the " dorsal side " consists of three perhaps sometimes five " basals," of the " upper and lower dorsal plate " or the first and second anterior radials, and of the right and left " dorso-lateral plate " or lateral radials.
He further discriminates between " plates of the dorsal arm," the brachials of the anterior ray, and those of the " dorso-lateral arms," or arm plates of the lateral rays.
The " ventral " side is described as being composed of the "ventral arching plate" which actually consists of two pieces, and which either are anal plates, or nonarm-bearing radials and succeeding these of a row of plates, longitudinally arranged, which were designated as "plates of the ventral side," but which are plates of an anal tube.
There are besides summit or vault pieces which, however, were not described by Hall.
The most remarkable feature of this genus is represented by the basals, which are located on the posterior side of the calyx.
They connect with the plates of the anterior side, which is truncated, toward the basals, not b}^ suture as in the case of other Crinoids but by muscles and ligament, thus producing between basals and radials a marked articulation.
There is a widely gaping suture along the articular line, which, as Meek and Worthen suggested, permitted the basals to be opened out on a line with the radials and other parts of the calyx.
That the calyx was capable of bending at this point is well shown by a unique specimen of Galceocrinus tunicatus Hall, in the possession of Mr. James Love of Burlington, in which the main body stands out from the column at an angle of sixty degrees ; while in most of the specimens which we have examined the crinoid hangs downward, almost parallel with the column.
No specimen, however, shows the calyx in an erect position.
There are in this genus but three rays, which vary considerably 200 rROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. in form and size.
The two lateral rays are composed of a large radial, which is followed b}'^ two ver}' small brachials.
The anterior ray has two radials, which combined are smaller than the single lateral ones.
The two are generally separated by the lateral radials Avhich join between them, placing one of the plates at the upper, the other at the lower end of the calyx.
This peculiar structure has evidently' prevented all former writers from recognizing those plates as radials.
That the}'are radials, and were gradually separated in the course of palseontological times, is proved by Hall's Silurian species Calceocrinus chrysalis and Galceocrinus ineequalis Billings,^ by C radiculus Ringueberg and G. Barrandii Walcott, in all of which the plates are narrowly elongate, and united by a short suture.
In Galceocrinus gothlandicus of Upper Silurian age, they are separated, but the first radial extends almost to the second.
In Calceocrinus clarus and Galceocrinus Barrisi from the Devonian, the distance that separates them is somewhat greater ; while in all Subcarboniferous species the two plates stand widely apart.
Galceocrinus agrees with Gatillocrinus in the arrangement and form of its plates.
In both of them the second ring consists of five extremely irregular pieces, but, while in the latter all five are arm-bearing, those of Galceocrinus are arm-bearing only in the three anterior rays.
The two posterior ones are small and support a large tube.
The corresponding plates in Gatillocrinus support upon one end of their upper side an arm, upon the other a similar tube as Galceocrinus, and in both genera the two anterolateral rays are far stronger developed than any of the others.
The two forms resemble each other more closely than might be expected from Crinoids that ditfer so widely in their general aspect, as shown by changing Gatillocrinus from its natural position into that of a Galceocrinus.
This may be done theoretically by pressing the calyx sideways in such a manner that the basals are pushed over to one side, and the three arm-bearing radials to the opposite side.
The lateral ones, however, owing to their large size naturally extend to the basal side, where they join the small postero-lateral radials, which, as stated, hold a similar position * It was Mr. Walter R. Billings, of Ottawa, who already in 1883 directed our attention to Heierocrinus inmqualis as being a Calceocrinus, and he informed us also that in this species the two anterior radials were joined by sutures.
I as the aral plates in Calceocrinu^, resting like them against the hasals and supporting a sirailar anal tube.
By thus changing the respective parts into a relative position, the affinities wh'ch exist between the two genera can be better appreciated.
T.he form of the calyx, however, the articulation between the basals and radials, and the sloping position of the lateral rays is so unique, and strikingly different from Catillocrinus and other genera, that Calceocrinvs must be referred to a distinct family.
The slight variations, which naturally occur in the branching of the arms, were taken by Hall, and Meek and Wortlien, for specific distinctions.
We fear these differences are too trifling to be regarded as such, and we have felt obliged to refer some of their species to our list f synonj^ms.
Postscriptum.
While our descriptions upon the Calceocrinidse were in press, we received a paper from Mr. E. 0.
Ulrich (extracted from the 14tli Ann.
Rep. Geol.
Surv.
Minn., p. 104): Remarks upon the names Cheirocrinus and Calceocrinus, with descriptions of three new generic terms and one new species.
The author subdivides the species heretofore known under Galceocrinioi into three genera : Cremacrinus, Deltacrinus and ffah/siocrinus^ and applies to them the family name "Cremacrinidse."
There is, in our opinion, no valid reason for discontinuing the names Calceocrinus and Calceocrinidse.
The genus Calceocrinus was properly defined by Hall and others, and several species have been referred to it by them.
Moreover, Meek and Worthen's name Eucheirocrinusyvo\\\^ have priority, and also Calceocrinidse, as both were proposed in 1873.
Under Cremacrinus Ulrich placed the species in which the two anterior radials (the two central plates of his) are connected vertically ; under Deltacrinus those in which said plates are separated by the two lateral radials (his two large dorso-lateral pieces).
This difference, we admit, exists between the Lower Silurian and Subcarboniferous species, but in the Upper Silur and Devonian the two forms pass gradually into one another, so as to make a generic separation impracticable.
Ulrich's statement on p. 110, that Cremacrinus has " three primary radials," Deltacrinus " five," Halysiocrinus " eleven," is based altogether upon incorrect observation.
All these species have but three armbearing radials one of them compound and the plates which Ulrich regarded as " eleven primary radials," are axillary brachials of ascending orders.
(May, 1886).
14 CALCEOCKINUS Hall (Revised by W. and Sp.).
1851.
Hall, Geol.
Rep. N. York, vol.
ii, p. 353, PI.
85, figs.
5, 6.
18(16.
Shuraard, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. 358.
1869.
Meek and Worthen, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 73.
1873.
Meek and Worthen, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, vol.
v, pp.
443 and 502.
1877.
S. A. Miller, Cat.
Amer.
Palajoz.
Fossils, p. 73.
1879.
Hall, 28th Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist.
(Ed.
ii), p. 146.
1882.
De Loriol, Palseont.
Francaise, Tome xi (Crinoides), p. 51.
1883.
Ringueberg, Journ.
Cincin.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., p. 130.
Syn.
Gheirocrinus Hall (not Eicliwald, 18")6); Hall, 1860, I'^th Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 123 ; Salter, 1859, Murch.
Siluria (Ed.
3), p. 535 (Catalogue name); Hall, 1862, 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 166 ; Zittel, 1879, Handb.
d.
Palaeout., i, p. 358.
Syn.
Chirocrinus, Angelin, 1878, Icon.
Crin.
Suec, p. 22.
Syn.
Pendulocrinus, Austin MS. (Salter, Siluria, p. 535).
Syn.
Eucheirocrmus, Meek and Woithen, Geol.
Rep. 111., v, p. 443.
In general form the specimens resemble a wilted flower, owing to the position of the cal3'x, which hangs downward along the column.
The calyx is laterally compressed, especially at the juncture of basals and radials, where it is almost linear ; while a transverse section across the median part of the radials and through the centre of the basal disk is decidedly triangular.
The anterior side forms a flat body, broadly truncate at the lower end, constricted in the middle, and composed exclusively of the radial plates.
The basals, which are placed upon the posterior side, are separated from the radials of the opposite side by a widely gaping articular line, occupying the lower end of the calyx.
Along this line, probablj^ the upper part of the Crinoid could be bent upwards and be brought in an erect position.
The posterior side is composed, in addition to the basals, of two nonarm-bearing plates, which face laterally the incurving sides of the radials, and support upon their upper side an extremely large ventral tube.
The basals jointly form a kind of semicircular disk, of which the straight line faces the truncated lower side of the anterior radial, and the curved part rests against the infolding lateral margins of the lateral radials, and against the two non-armbearing plates.
The basal disk, which is slightly convex, is composed of three pieces, two of which are equal, the other large and of a very different shape.
The two former taken together are lunate, and enclose within their arched sides the other plate, which lies transversely, and occupies almost the entire width of the truncated side of the basal disk.
The articular facet for the attachment of the column has a lateral position, and is placed within the centre of the two equal pieces, without touching at an}^ point the third plate.
It is large, somewhat excavated, and divided vertically by the suture line.
The radials consist of four plates of very irregular arrangement.
The two larger ones, those of the lateral rays, occupy more than two-thirds of the anterior side of the calyx, and support two small transverse brachials, of which the upper one is axillary.
Two much smaller and very irregular plates, which are generally separated by the large lateral pieces, form the radial of the anterior ray.
The large lateral radials are bent abruptly along their outer sides, so as to occupy considerable space upon the posterior side of the calyx.
They are hexagonal rarely pentagonal angular at their upper and lower ends ; one of the lower sloping sides abuts against the first anterior radial, the other against the basal disk.
The sloping upper face connects at one side with the second anterior radial, the opposite side supports the first brachial plate.
Of the lateral faces one meets the corresponding side of the opposite radial, the other an anal plate.
In the anterior ray, the first radial is linear, but more frequently triangular, two of its sides resting within a re-entering angle formed by the lateral radials.
The lower edge is generally wider, and constitutes the bottom part of the anterior face of the calyx, being on a level with the truncated edge of the basals, and united with them by muscular articulation.
The articulating surface, near the outer margin of the component plates, is provided with a deep fossa, evidentl}^ for the lodgment of elastic ligament.
A similar but narrower fossa is placed close to the inner margin of the plates, separated from the former by a narrow transverse ridge.
The middle part of this ridge extends somewhat into the large fossa, and forms a kind of triangular projection which contains a small axial canal.
The second anterior radial has nearly the same form as the first, but its position is reversed, the truncate side being directed upwards, the angle downwards, resting between the sloping upper sides of the adjoining basals.
In Calceocrinus chrysalis, in which the first anterior radial joins the second, both plates are exceptionally quadrangular, and, therefore, the first lateral radials pentagonal instead of hexagonal.
The plates above are free.
There are two brachials in each lateral ray, a single one in the anterior one.
The articular line between the lateral radials and brachials is widely gaping, the union between the two succeeding plates apparently b}syzygy.
They are closely fitted together in the specimens, and a suture is rarely discernible.
The lower one is short and quadrangular, the upper one axillary.
The brachial of the anterior ray is generally twice as wide as high, and truncate at its upper side.
It has been stated that in the lateral rays the first brachials are placed obliquely against the radials, in consequence of which these two rays lean over toward the posterior side.
By this peculiar structure, the outer sloping faces of the bifurcating brachials are brought into a vertical, the inner ones into a horizontal position.
The vertical side supports laterally another axillar}^ the horizontal side vertically a free arm.
The former is followed again by an axillary on one side, and an arm on the other, and so on in the same manner to the last bifurcation, the axillary plates all arranged in a nearly horizontal line, the free arms having an upright direction.
In species with but few bifurcations the position of the brachials is more erect.
The arms are composed of single joints, which are generally as long as wide ; rounded exteriorly and provided with a deep triangular groove at the ventral side ; they are comparatively long, rather stout at the base, but taper gradually upwards.
The lateral arms, after their first bifurcation, do not branch again, but give ofi" from every third or fourth joint a large arm-like pinnule, which extends to the end of the arm.
The lower pinnule is less than half the size of the arm at the place of attachment ; the one or two succeeding ones have nearly the same size as the arras at the place of their origin.
The pinnule-bearing joints appear to be somewhat stouter owing to a thick callosity at their upper end, and their line of articulation is directed obliquely.
The intermediate joints have parallel sides, which show neither fossae nor radiations, and probably were united simply by suture.
The anterior ra}^ has but a single arm, which is given ofi" in an upright direction.
It is stouter than the lateral arms, and remains frequently simple throughout, but when it branches occasionally, the division takes place near the distal end.
Anal plates two, resting against the basals and the incurved wings of the lateral radials.
Their upper side supports a row of very large and heavy quadrangular plates, which are longitudiI nally arranged and form the exterior side of an enormous anal tube, extending to the tips of the arms and perhaps beyond their limits, with scarcely an}'^ diminution in size.
Like in Calillocrinns, only the posterior side of the tube is heavily plated, the anterior side being composed of very small and delicate plates.
The column is comparatively large, near the calyx composed alternately of shorter and longer segments, which soon turn altogether into long joints.
Hall gives the column as very short; it was, however, of considerable length in some cases, as we have followed it up to a foot or more without reaching the root.
Geological' Position, etc.
Calceocrinus makes its appearance in the Lower Silurian, but only in America.
It struggled through the Devonian, and reached its greatest distribution in the earlier periods of the Subcarboniferous, but without flourishing abundantly.
Throughout this long period of time, the species change but little, less than those of an}' other genus, and it is exceedingly difficult to point out specific differences, which in most of them are so slight that they hardly deserve the name.
In Europe it has been found only in the Upper Silurian.
We recognize only the following species : 188.3.
Calceocrinus Barrandii Walcott, 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
(Author's Edit., p. 6), PI.
17, figs.
1, 2.
Upper part of Trenton limest.
Trenton Palls, New Yurk.
1865.
C. Barrisi Worthen, Geol.
Rep. Illinois, iv, p. 510, with woodcut.
Hamilton group.
Near Davenport, Iowa.
]Sfi9.
C. Bradley!
Meek and Worthen, Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 7?>; also 1873, Geol.
Rep.
III., vol.
v, p. 502, PI.
14, fig 9.
Keokuk limestone.
Crawfordsville, Indiana.
1860.
C. chrysalis Hall (Cheirocrinus chrysali's).
Tj'pe of the genus.
13th Rep. New York State Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 123, with diagrams.
Shumard, 1866, Calceocrinus chrysalis, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii,p. 358.
Niagara group.
State of New York.
l862.
C. clarus Hall (Cheirocrinus clarus), 15th Rep. New York State Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 116, PI.
1, fig.
17.
Shumard, 1866, Calceocrinus clarus, Tran.-s. Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. 358.
Zittel, 1879, Handb.
der Palajont., i, p. 358, figs.
2, 4, 5 a. Hamilton group.
Ontario Co., N. Y.
1878.
C. gotlandicus Angelin (Chirocrinus gotlandicus), Iconogr.
Crin.
Suec, p. 22, PI.
16, figs.
6-14.
Zittel, 1879, Handb.
der Palfeont., i, p. 358, figs.
245, b, c, d. Upper Silurian.
Gothland, Sweden.
1859, C. inaequalis Billings (Heterocrinus inaequalis), Geol.
Surv.
Canada, Decade iv, p. 51, PI.
4, fig.
7 f!
; Wachs.
and Spr.
Revision i, p. 70.
Trenton limestone.
Ottawa.
1866.
C. perplexus Shumard, Trans.
Nat.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii.
p. 358.
Keokuk limest.
Button-mould-Knob, Ky. 1882.
C. radiculus Ringueberg Journ.
Cinein.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
v, p. 120, PI.
5, fig.
4.
Niagara group.
Lockport, N. Y.
1862.
C. stigmatus Hall (Cheirocrinus stigmatus), Trans.
Alb.
Inst., vol.
iv, p. 225 (Abstr.
p. 31).
Shumard, 18G6, Calceocrinus stigmatus, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. .358; also Hall, 1S79, 2Sth Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 147, PI.
19, figs.
9-11; also 11th Ann.
Rep. St. Indiana by Collett, 1881, p. 281, Pi.
19, figs.
9-11.
Niagara group.
Waldron, Indiana.
1860.
C. tunicatus Hall (Cheirocrinus tunicatus), l.'ith Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat, Hist., p. 124, with diagram.
Shumard, 1866, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Loui.s.
vol.
ii, p. 359.
Keokuk limestone.
Keokuk, Iowa, Niota and Warsaw, 111.
I860.
C. ventricosus Hall (Cheirocrinus ventricosus), 13th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 123.
Shumard, 1866, Trans.
Acad.
Sci.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. 359.
Burlington limest.
Burlington, Iowa.
Spi.
Cheirocr.
dactylus Hall, 1860, 13th Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 123.
^Burlington limestone.
Si/H.
Cheirocr, nodosus Hall, 1860, Ibid.
Keokuk limestone.
Syn.
Cheirocr.
Wachsmuthi Meek and Wortheu, 1869, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Burlington limestone.
Sgn.
Calceocr.
dactylus Shumard, 1866, Trans.
Acad.
Set.
St. Louis, vol.
ii, p. 358.
Syn.
Calceocr.
Wachsmuthi, Ibid.
APPENDIX.
(January, 1886).
STEPHANOCRINIDiE W. and Spr.
Through the kindness of Prof. R. P. Whitfield, to whom we are under lasting obligations, we had lately an opportunity to examine from the collection of the American Museum of Natural History of New York City, some valuable and unique specimens of the genus Stephanocrinus.
Among these were 25 specimens of Stephanocrinus angulatus Conrad, two of them showing the brachial appendages the so-called pinnules and 18 specimens of Stephanocrinus gemmiformis Hall.
Stephanocrinus is one of those genera which prove to us how inappropriate it is to make Crinoids, Cystids and Blastoids distinct classes.
The genus has been regarded by F. Roemer, Johannes Miiller and Pictet to be a Cystid, by Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter and S. A. Miller a Blastoid.
Dujardin and Hupd and apparently (?)
Hall refer it to the Crinoids ; while Prof. Zittel was in doubt whether he should place it with the Blastoids or not.
That it has certain affinities with either one of the three groups cannot be denied.
It agrees by its oral and anal pj^ramid with certain forms of the Cystids, while in its general habitus and in the position of the ambulacra it agrees with the Blastoids ; and j-et it is, as we shall prove, unquestionably a PaljBocrinoid.
It seems Roemer^ had discovered sockets for the reception of brachial appendages, and probably these sockets and the valvular covering of mouth and anus induced him to place the genus with the Cystidea.
Johannes Miiller, who also regarded it a Cystid, makes the remark: " Nierenformige Warzen am Ende der Strahlen des sternformigen Feldes deuten auf die Gegenwart von Armen hin."
Hall, in vol.
ii, p. 351 , of the New Yoi^k Report, does not describe the appendages which he had discovered as Blastoid pinnules, but speaks of tentacula attached to the margin along a slight groove in the base of the depressions between the angular processes which ornament the summit of the body.
These tentacula or fingers consist of ten branches, each composed of a double series of plates above, but uniting below a series of coalescing plates which have a different arrangement.
It seems to us this description does not apply to ambulacral appendages, nor do we think that Hall took the genus to be a Blastoid.
On p. 212 of the New York Report he called it a Crinoid, and in 1879 he placed it aside of well-known Pal^eocrinoidea.
Pictet describes the base as composed of " five subradials," and " five basals," and the mouth as surrounded by " ten tentacles."
Dujardin and Hupe place it among the Haplocrinidse, between Eaplocrimis and Coccocrinus, and also these writers describe within the radial groove a reniform impression for the reception of an arm, but thought to observe " lames paralleles " along the grooves.
They regard, like Roemer, the central pyramid, the mouth, and the lateral aperture an ovarian opening.
Considering that Hall, Roemer, Miiller, and Dujardin and Hupe, all describe at the outer end of the ambulacral groove a reniform scar for the attachment of an appendage, it is somewhat surprising that Etheridge and Carpenter place the genus among the Blastoids.
They undertake to explain this by Hall's discovery of " ambulacral appendages .... like those of other Blastoids," and give it as their opinion that the reniform scar of Roemer " is nothing more than an infolded radial lip."
We stated already that we thought Hall never regarded Stephanocrinus a Blastoid, ^ We do not possess Roomer's description of Stephanocrinus which appeared in Wiegmann's Archiv for 1850, and know it only from the quotations of subsequent writers.
and he certainly did not describe arabulacral appendages, but branching fingers, no matter what name he gave to the parts.
We are confident that the depression at the end of the ambulacral groove really does exist, and that it is occupied by a second radial.
Stephanocrinus not onl^^ has two radials to each ray, but branching biserial arms, given off in a somewhat similar m:inner as the arms in the Platycrinidse.
The second radials are reniform, small, bifurcating, and rest within a semi-ovoid or horseshoe-shaped depression near the outer end of the ambulacral groove.
They are succeeded b}'^ two or more axillaries of a higher order, which in the usual way give origin to ten arms to each ray.
That these appendages, although they are equall}'^ thin and short, are not pinnules, is proved by the fact that all are supported hy a radial plate, instead of being distributed separately along the sides of an ambulacrum.
It is further shown by one of the New York specimens, in which in one of the raj'S the appendages became disconnected, and were deposited en masse at some little distance from the radials, without the least disturbance in their arrangement, a case which could not have happened if they were ambulacral pinnules.
The ambulacra of Stepkanocriiius are constructed very differently from those of the Blastoids ; they possess no side-pieces, no transverse furrows, no hydrospire pores, and no sockets for the reception of pinnules; they simply are covered by two rows of Saumplattchen, which enclose a tubular canal containing the food groove.
The Saumplattchen or covering pieces of the same row are so closely anch^dosed to one another, longitudinally, that it appears even under an ordinary magnifier, and in the most perfect specimens, as if there were but two elongate plates, one at each side.
As such they were represented bj^ Hall in his diagramatic figure.
New York Geol.
Rep., vol.
ii, PI.
48, fig.
1 1, in which the reniform plates at the outer end of the elongate pieces represent the second radials.
The figure shows excellently the plates of the ventral side as they generally appear in the specimens ; there is omitted, however, a suture along the so-called coronal processes, which Hall, as well as Roemer, thought he observed, but which were not accurately defined until 1883, b}" Etheridge and Carpenter (Ann.
and Mag.
Nat Hist., April, p. 239).
They found the processes " divided into an outer part formed by the contiguous limbs of two adjacent radials, and an inner portion or deltoid/ and that the calyx consists of three rows of plates the basals, radials and deltoids.
The canals which contain the food grooves are in their usual preservation, more or less compressed, and in consequence thereof the two series of covering pieces became separated longitudinally, and appear in the specimens as if forming a deep groove upon the surface following the median line.
Little of this groove, however, is seen in plump specimens.
Etheridge and Carpenter, and also Zittel, regard the two rows of anchylosed covering plates as constituting a single piece, and this, they think, represents the lancet plate of the Blastoids.
Upon this point they make on p. 240 of their paper the following statement : " The paired linear plates in the ambulacra we believe to be single, and to represent the lancet plates of other Blastoids.
They seem to be usually much eroded and to have a strongly marked median groove, which has been taken for a suture.
Even when these plates are preserved the side plates of the ambulacra are generallj'^ missing ; but since Hall has discovered specimens of S. angulatus still attaining ambulacral appendages like those of other Blastoids, we see no reason to doubt the existence of side plates and outer side plates.
In fact, the former have been described in S. pulchellus by Miller and Dyer."
We doubt if Etheridge and Carpenter ever saw a Stephanocrinus with either side pieces or outer side pieces, or ever will see one, and if Miller and Dyer found such plates in their St. pulchellus, we assert that their species is not a Stephanocrinus.
Aside from the fact that the " so-called lancet pieces " are compound structures, we think it utterly impossible from the position which these plates occupy toward the oral plates, that the^'^ could represent lancet pieces, as in that case the food grooves would have to run out into the air in place of entering the interior.
In both of the New York species, the oral plates are on the same level with the covering pieces ; they meet with each other so as to leave externally, when both plates are in position, no opening or passage.
The only communication with the inner cavity, ^ We have substituted here deltoids for ^^oraJs,^' the latter term being used by Etheridge and Carpenter in their paper.
When they wrote this they still regarded the deltoids as representing the orals, a mistake which Dr. P. H. Carpenter explained and corrected in his Challenger Report, p. 162.
AC 210 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY Of [1886. in connection with the ambulacra, is beneath the covering plates through the canals or tunnels which we have described.
These passages, which are closed at the bottom by the deflected lateral edges of two adjoining interradials, as in the case of Cyathocrimis, grow deeper and narrower on approaching the oral plates ; while toward the arms they widen and divide, transmitting a branch to each main division of the rays.
All this goes to prove that the passages are tubular canals, such as we find in the Paleeocrinoidea, and that the apparent resemblance between the ambulacra of Stephanocrinus and those of the Blastoids, to a large extent, is superficial.
The oral 133-ramid, which is rather symmetrical in outline, occupies the very centre of the ventral surface.
It is composed of five pieces of nearly equal size, which meet in the centre, and are so closely connected by suture that the lines of union are rarely seen in the specimens.
A less close union seems to have existed toward the interradials, for the oral plates are but seldom preserved, when we find in their place a nearly circular opening.
The radials extend to the full height of the coronal processes, and resemble in their form closely the forked plates of certain Blastoids ; while in Hall's figure (N. York Rep., vol.
ii, PI.
48, figs.
1 h and 2/) they appear like the radials of a Platycrinus.
Hall evidently mistook the cracks which so frequently are found at the base of the interradial processes, for sutures, and supposed the united limbs of two contiguous radials, formed a deltoidshaped interradial plate.
The most interesting fQa.t\xve of Stephanocrinus unquestionably is the quinque-partite oral pyramid, which, we think, gives us valuable information regarding the undivided oral plate in other groups of the Palaeocrinoidea.
It was suggested by us on p. 55, that probably the central or oral plate of the Palteocrinoidea primitively consisted of five pieces, of which the suture lines gradually were obliterated by deposition of new material.
In support of this theory we could only refer to the parallel cases of the basals and underbasals among which similar modifications took place not only palaeontologically by anchylosis of one or more of the plates, but also in the growing Crinoid by deposition of limestone at the outer surface of the plates, as in the case of Edriocrinus and Agassizocrinus.
We were unable at that time to point out a single Palseocrinoid in which the peristomial area was closed by five plat^, and therefore regard the case of Stephanocrinus of the utmost importance, not only as confirming our suggestions, but as throwing light upon the orals of the Palseocrinoidea generall3\ Before, however, we discuss this question any further, it will be necessarj^ to point out the relations of Stephanocrinus with other Crinoids.
Stephanocrinus, undoubtedly, is closely allied to Allagecrinus, Haplocrinus and Pisocrinus, and must be placed with them among the Larviformia, but, owing to marked difl'erences in the form and arrangement of the arms, it cannot be arranged either with the Haplocrinidaa or Symbathocrinidae, and it will be necessary to establish for it a separate family.
Except in the arm structure, the affinities seem to be particularly close with Pisocrinus, 'which has similar interradial processes, formed likewise by the extended limbs of the radials ; but as we know little or nothing of the oral plates and ambulacral structure in this genus, a critical comparison is difficult.
It differs also from Haplocrinus in the position of the disk-ambulacra, which in the latter are subtegminal, in the other exposed to view.
This, we explain b}individual growth, and assert from palseontological evidence that Stephanocrinus, like Cyathocrinus and other Palseocrinoidea in its younger state passed through stages in which it closely resembled Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus.
Admitting this, it will be interesting, and instructive, to transform theoretically the lower diffei*entiated Haplocrinus, so as to conform with the conditions of the adult Stephanocrinus.
To this end we open out the five ventral plates of Haplocrinus, so as to expose their ambulacral skeleton, and push the ambulacra and the oral plate, which latter occupies the central portions of this skeleton, in an outward direction, in such a manner that the covering pieces fill up the clefts between the interradial plates, and the oral plate the centre, increasing in size as the space gradually grows larger.
Nothing further is necessary to complete the structure of Stephanocrinus but to extend the sides of the interradials laterally, so as to close the ambulacral groove from beneath.
By these manipulations, in which, we think, we closely imitated the natural development as it took place among Palaeocrinoids palgeontologically, we placed the two genera in the same relative position, in hopes to arrive therebj' at a satisfactory conclusion as to the morphological resemblance of the respective plates.
In Stephanocrinus interradials have been admitted, and the plates which do represent them correspond in our hj-pothetical Crinoid with the plates which we opened out to receive the ambulacra.
The plates have relativel}^ a similar position, both rest against the upper edges of two adjoining radials, and both support a small pyramid or disk, which in both cases not only occupies a strictl}' central position, but covers the peristomial area and closes the oral pole.
Now, if this is true, what makes those plates interradials onl}^ in the one case and not also in the other, and why does the central disk which they enclose represent the oral pyramid in the one and something else in the other?
That the central pyramid is quinque-partite in Stephanocrinus, coalesced in the other, is apparent!}'
the only structural difference between the two forms, and simply upon this ground the former has been regarded by Carpenter (Chall.
Rep., pp.
269 to 271) an oral pj'iamid, and the central plate of Haplocrinus a so-called "orocentral," something totally unknown in Crinoid morphology and that of Echinoderms generally.
According to Carpenter the orals of Haplocrinus were represented by the five large ventral plates, although these, like the interradials of other Paloeocrinoids, apparently cover the disk and tentacular vestibule, contrary to the case of the orals and summit plates generally which close only the peristomial area.
If Haplocrinus did represent a permanent larval form of the Neocrinoidea instead of the PaltEOcrinoidea.
Carpenter would be justified in regarding those five plates as orals, and could assert that the plates were in the growing animal, and in palaeontological times carried inward b^^ perisome, as he and Etheridge suggested to have been probably the case in the growing Allagecrinus, but we cannot find in the phylogeny of the older Crinoids the least evidence to justify that supposition.
On the contrary, everything points at the conclusion that the orals, and other summit plates, had relatively the same proportions in the younger and lower forms, as in the adult and higher tj^^es ; and we, therefore, regard the respective plates in Haplocrinus like those of Sfephanocrinus,Cyatlwcrinus and the Blastoidea, which Carpenter, likewise, once regarded as orals, as true interradial plates.
If the plates in Haplocrinus really were orals, and also the honiolognes of the six or more proximals of the Platycrinidie and Actinocrinidse, and of the five summit plates in Stephanocrinus, which all cover the peristomial area but not also the tentacular vestibule and the disk, it would follow that in the three latter the orals were carried inward by the cahx interradials b}' which they are surrounded, but not only, as perhaps might be the case in the Camarata, by their higher orders or upward growth, but even by the primary interradials.
It would further suggest that in the earliest genera Beteocrinus, Glyptocrinus and allied forms, which have no proximals, the " orals " were unrepresented or resorbed.
Also Nanocrinus paradoxus (Echin.
Eifl.
Kalk., PI.
12, fig.
7 i) has no proximals, the covering pieces, according to our interpretation, rest directly against the central plate.
This, we know, is tlie case in two undescribed species of Talarocrinus, which we discovered lately in Kentucky.
In these species the central piece is relatively larger than the combined orals of Stephanocrinus, there are no proximals, and no other interradial plates touching the central plate.
The covering pieces occup}^ here a similar position to the central plate the coalesced orals as in Stephanocrinus to the quinque partite oral pyramid.
There we have actual specimens, which in all essential points conform with the hypothetical Crinoid which we constructed.
From Carpenter's arguments (Chall.
Rep., pp.
268-2T1) we conclude tliat he regards the hypothetical "orocentral" a kind of keystone, by which the actinal system is closed in a similar manner as at the opposite pole the dorsocentral is said to close the abactinal side.
Unfortunately, however, this theory as stated, is not sustained by embryology.
No such plate has ever been discovered among living Crinoids, not even in their larval state, before the opening of the tentacular vestibule, which is said to represent the condition of Haplocrinus morphologically.
This difficulty Carpenter undertook to explain on p. 270 b}' stating, that if such a plate appeared " it would only be in the way, and have to undergo resorption to a greater or less extent."
A weak argument considering that orals of recent Crinoids actually undergo that resorption.
But, admitting it, what then became of the orocentral of Stephanocrinus^ AUagecrinus and Coccocrinus, and what of the central piece in the oral pj'ramid of certain Cystidea ?
He states further " the former (basals) are within the ring of radials, and next to the dorsocentral ; and it seems therefore only natural to regard the six proximal interradial plates surrounding the central piece (oro-central) in the vault of a Palaeocrinoid as representing oral plates."
Tliis argument is not quite correct, in so far as the central piece is frequently surrounded not only by the proximals his orals but also by the radials and anal plate (see PI.
7) ; contrary to the basals, which form a ring by themselves.
Besides, his argument is based to a large extent, if not altogether, upon the hypothetical plate which he calls "oro-central."
Taking everything in consideration, is it not reasonable and more natural to regard the five orals of the Neocrinoidea, which in the larva are loosely folded together, and which in some of the Cystidea and also in Stephanocrimis were united by a close suture, as gradually becoming anchylosed in a group in which they were permanently closed, than it is to invoke the existence of a new ele^ ment unknown in Echinoderm morphology, and even then have to assert that six plates take the place of five ?
!
But not only that, we also have to admit that these so-called "orals " contain in their midst anal and radial plates contrary to the case of the orals of the Neocrinoidea, Stephanocrinus and the Cystidea, and contrary to the basals, the abactinal representatives of the orals as Carpenter admits.
As a further proof that the central jiiece is the representative of the orals, we refer to the Cystid genus Caryocrinus^ which has three in place of five groups of arms, and which, according to our interpretation, has no proximals.
The central piece which occupies the centre of figure, and which we think represents the oral pyramid, is surrounded by eight plates, b}"^ five, (not four) large ones, and three smaller ones, the latter conforming jointly to one of the other five.
Three of the plates have a strictly radial position, the three others, including the compound one which takes the azygous side, are interradial.
We doubt if Carpenter will regard these six plates, wholly or partly, as the representatives of our proximals his orals or his theory will have to undergo further modifications, as he will find it difficult to restore five primitive pieces from an assemblage of plates as here exhibited.
STEPHANOCRINUS Conrad.
i 184-2, Conrad, Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., vol.
8, p. 278.
1851.
Hall, Palaeoiit.
N. York, vol.
ii, pp.
212 and 351.
1851.
F. Roemer, Wiegmann's Archiv f. Naturgesch.
Jahrg.
xvi, vol.
i, pp.
365-375.
1853.
Job.
Miiller, Verb.
d. Berl.
Acad.
d.
Wissenscli., p. 211.
1855.
Lith.
Geogu.
(Ausg.
8), p. 266, 1857.
Pictct, Trait e de Paleoiit., vol.
iv, p. 304.
1862, Dujardin and Hupe, Hist.
Natur, des Zoopli., p. 266.
1879.
Hall, 28tli Rep. N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 146.
1881.
Hall, lltb Ann.
Rep. of Indiana, p. 279.
1879.
Zittel, Handb.
d. Palseont.
i, p. 436.
1883.
Carpenter, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Apr., p. 237.
Stephanocrinus resembles in many respects certain forms of the Blastoidea, but has true brachial appendages.
The cal3'x is subpyramidal, or deeply cup-shaped, with five spiniform interradial processes.
The basals form a large semicircular or subturbinate cup, more or less truncate at the bottom, with a trigonal distal face, which is slightly excavated for the reception of a column.
They consist of three pieces, almost coequal as to size but not as to form, one of them being quadrangular, the two others pentangular.
The quadrangular piece takes the position of the smaller basal in the Blastoidea, to the right of the anterior radial ; contrary to other Palaeocrinoidea in which it occupies the left side.
In one specimen, however, exceptionally, it is placed posteriorly, supjjorting the greater half of two postero-lateral radials.
The first radials are large and resemble to a large extent the forked plates of certain species of Cadaster and Phaenoschisma, in which the limbs the prongs of the fork of two contiguous radials extend up between the arms in an almost vertical direction, but instead of forming, as there, a sort of pyramid, they are extended in Stephanocrinus frequently into long thornlike processes, which sometimes attain more than one-half the height of the calyx up to the arm bases.
These processes form radially a deep gutter, containing the ambulacral groove which leads to the arms.
The second radials rest within a horseshoe-like depression near the outer end of the gutter.
The plates are reniform, small, short, axillary, with three conspicuous prong-like projections extending inward.
The outer ones of these projections are wing-like, resting against, and partly upon, the intcrradials ; the inner one sword-shaped, their sharp point extended deeply into the ambulacra!
groove, so as to divide it, and to form a branch groove for each main division of the rays.
Stephanocrinus angiilatus evidentl}'^ had ten arms to the ra}'', but the mode of branching beyond the second radials is not well known.
We found, howCA-er, in one instance the second radial succeeded by two other axillaries.
The arms are biserial, thin, short, pinnule-like, and they cover the whole ventral surface.
In length they do not extend beyond the interradial processes, which apparently were to protect these delicate organs.
The intcrradials are comparatively large.
They resemble in form and position the deltoids of Codasler, Troostocrinus and other Blastoids, in which, like here, no part of the plates is visible in a side view.
Tliey extend to the top of the projections and rest against the inner faces of two limbs, the suture running downwards so as to divide the processes into an inner and outer part.
The plates are connected laterally with one another, but not centrally.
They leave in the centre a moderately large open space, which in perfect specimens is filled by oral plates.
The lateral edges of the intcrradials are deflected, curvino; downward, so as to form a wide and deep ambulacral groove, which on approaching the inner end becomes deeper and narrower, and toward the arm bases divides as stated above.
The ambulacral grooves are readily distinguished from the general gutter formed by the protuberances.
The3' contain neither hydrospires, nor pores, nor other openings, but there seem to be small axial canals at the arm bases.
At each side of the ambulacral groove there is a sort of depression, which forms a place of attachment for two series of small, subquadrangular covering pieces, which form a vault over the groove, leaving underneath a circular, comparatively large passage, which at one end communicates with the arms, at the other enters the calyx beneath the edge of the oral pyramid.
The covering plates of the same series are so closely anchylosed that they appear in the best specimens, even under a magnifier, as two single plates, one at each side, as which the}^ were figured by Hall.
Their composite nature and alternate arrangement, however, was ascertained in places where portions of this integument had been weathered.
The oral pyramid, which occupies the centre of figure, is placed on a level with the covering pieces to wliich it is closely attached.
It rests against the truncated margins of the interradials, which for its reception are slightly excavated.
It is composed of five subequal pieces, which are so closely united by suture laterally and centrally, that the suture lines are rarely visible, and the plates appear as if forming a single piece.
The anal aperture is located ventrally, near the top of one of the interradial processes, at the place where two of the limbs meet with the interradial.
In its usual preservation it consists of a rather large circular opening, which, however, in perfect specimens is closed by a valve of from four to six small pieces.
The Stephanocrinus which Hall described and figured in the 28th Rep. of the N. York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist.
(Second Edition), p. 146, PI.
14, figs.
15-20, is in our opinion specifically distinct from S. gemmiformis, and even generically unless the small interradial plates are very incorrectly outlined.
S. osgoodensis S. A. Miller ( Codaster osgoodensis) , Cincin.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
ii, PI.
10, figs.
T and T a, which the author in his Catalogue of the Palseoz.
Fossils (Second Edition) referred to Stephanocrinus is described from internal casts, and too incompletely known for identification.
St. pulchellus, S. A, Miller, is a Codaster.
The column is small, and composed of comparatively long joints.
Geological Position, etc.
The genus has been found exclusively in the Niagara group of America.
The following species have been described : 1842.
Stephanocrinus angulatus Conrad.
(Type of the genus).
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., vol.
viii, p. 279, PI, 15, fig.
8.
Pictet, 1867, Traite de Paleont., vol.
iv, PI.
99, fig.
23.
F. Roemer, 1851, Wiegmann's Archiv., Jahrgang xvi, pp.
365-375, PI.
5.
Hall, 1851, Palaeont.
N. York, vol.
ii, pp.
213 and 351, PI.
48, fis.
1 a-m, and PI.
85, figs.
1-4.
Niagara group.
Lockport, N. York.
1851.
St. gemmiformis Hall, Palajont.
N. York, vol.
ii, p. 215, PI.
48, figs.
2a-t; also 1879, 28th Rep. New York St. Cab.
Nat.
Hist., p. 146, PI.
14, figs.
15-20 ; also, 1881, 11th Ann.
Geol.
Rep. Indiana by CoUett, p. 279, PI.
13, figs.
15-20,^ Rochester, N. Y., and Waldron, Indiana (?).
15 218 proceedings of the academy op [1886.
Notes on the Underbasals and Top Stemjoint of Neocrinoidea AND PaL^EOCRINOIDEA.
On p. 8 we stated that probably many Neocrinoids, heretofore supposed to be monocyclic, either have small underbasals concealed beneath the column, or that these plates had been represented in the early larva.
We referred to the genera PentacrinuSy Millericrinus and Apiocrinus, which, according to our generalizations on p. T, are built decidedl}^ on the plan of dicyclic Palseocrinoids.
Our investigation, unfortunately, could be extended only to comparatively few species, as the column and axial canal of the Neocrinoidea very frequently, and even among the genera to which we alluded, are not angular, and Pentacrinus among the three is the only genus that has lateral cirrhi.
Rudimentary underbasals are known to exist in the Pentacrinoid genus Extracrinus, and similar plates have been discovered in the ApiocrinidjB by Mr. De Loriol in two species of Millericrinus.
In these species, as in the case of Extracrinus, the angles of the column, when this is pentangular, are interradial, the canals radial, exactly as in species in which underbasals are supposed to be wanting, but contrary to the conditions of monocyclic Palseocrinoids in which the angles of the column are radial, the axial canals interradial.
Millericrinus polydactylus, according to Mr. De Loriol (Monograph of the French Crinoids, p. 553, PI.
110, figs.
1 a and 2 ay, has five minute plates within the basal ring, which were regarded by him as " infrabasalia," the term which he applies to underbasals.
De Loriol describes these plates as follows : " Je distingue trfes nettement, sur deux individus, cinq pieces extremement petites, a peine distinctes a I'oeil nu, qui son logees an centre de Particle basal, chacune reposant sur le sommet de I'une des carfenes, dans une direction radiale ; au centre se trouve une petite depression qui forme le fond de la cavite.
Ces petites pieces, que je n'avais jamais encore observees, jouent evidemment le role de pieces infrabasales, mais a I'^tat tout a fait rudimen1 By an error it was stated on p. 7 in Eule 2 : the five sections of the column are "radial,^^ the longitudinal sutures " interradial," which should read: the five sections of the column are "interradial," the longitudinal sutures "radial."
'^ This and the succeedingquotations are made from the Palcontologie Franqaise, Ire Serie, Animaux Invertebres, Terrain Jurassique, Tome xi, Premiere Partie, Crinoides, par M. P. De Loriol, Paris, 1883-1884, taire."
Similar pieces were discovered by him in his MiUericrinus Orhignyi (PL 116, figs.
1 b,Cjd), upon which he says on p. 566 : " Elles ne peuvent absolument se voir que lorsque, par un hasard heureux, Particle basal pent se d^ager du calice.
II me parait indubitable que ce sont la de petites pieces infrabasales rudimentaires semblables a celles que j'ai signalees dans le Hill, polydactyhts.
''^ We full}^ agree with the distinguished Swiss palaeontologist that the plates in question in both cases are rudimentary underbasals, from the very fact that the plates are disposed radially, the outer angles of the column interradially, as seen in Hill.
Orhignyi^ in which the stem is pentangular.
Admitting these plates to be underbasals, we doubt if all other species of Millericrinus, which have an interradial pentangular stem, and those with a round stem, and the species of Apio-C7-inus^ a genus which, according to De Loriol, is closely allied to Miller icrinus, should be devoid of underbasals.
In that case the two species should be separated from the others, and be placed by themselves under a very distinct genus.
That small underbasals at least temporarily were represented in other species of Millericrinus and in Apiocrinus, is indicated by the fact that the open space within the basal ring, which in Millericrinus Orhignyi is occupied by the underbasals, is radial, contrary to the axial canals of monocyclic Palaeocrinoids, which are interradial.
Moreover, the space is not in proportion to the axial canal in the stem, which in both genera is small and circular.
The space in these species is large enough to have contained, in addition to the axial canal, such small plates as De Loriol figured in Millericrinus Orbigny, and these, if present, would talie the same position as the underbasals in that species.
In all dicyclic Crinoids, the column rests either exclusively against the underbasals, or, when these are very small, also partly against the basals.
The latter is the case in the two species of Millericrinus where underbasals are known to be present.
In these species they form together with the basals a deep concavity for the reception of the top stem joint, which occupies the whole concavity, as beautifully shown by De Loriol in Mill, polydactylus (PI.
110, fig.
1 a).
In other species of Millericrinus in which no underbasals have been observed, and in the genus ApioctHnus, the structure is fundamentally the same, except that the columnar concavity is formed exclusively by the basals, the underbasals 220 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. being here absent, and the space which they should fill left vacant in the fossil.
In all these species the top stem joint occupies the same position toward the basals that it does in the two species in which the underbasals are in place, although the plate varies considerably in form.
In some of them it appears as if forming a part of the cahx, in others as an ordinary stem joint.
In some species it is much wider than the succeeding joints, in others of the same width ; but there are all possible gradations between the extremes.
In all of them, however, the plate rests against the outer walls of the basals as in Mill, polydactylus, not within the basal ring, and in all of them the basal concavity, whether large or small, is completely filled bj?^ the top stem joint.
It is very interesting that in the two cases in which De Loriol accidentally discovered underbasals, these were separated from the basals, and are closely attached to the column, which goes to prove that probably already a partial resorption of the plates took place.
It suggests further that the union with the underbasals was tighter than with the basals, that probably the former was effected by common suture, the other by S3'Z3^gy or some other loose way, the apposed faces being either striated or showing traces of fossae.
A near approach to the structure of Millericrinus polydactylus we find in Mill.
Piletti (PL 63), in which no underbasals were observed, but the lateral faces of the basals (fig.
8 a) show clearly that underbasals were once present.
The column also here, from the first joint down, is strictl}^ interradial, the axial canal small and round, and not in proportion to the large open space between the basals.
The basal concavitj^ is funnel-shaped, very deep, wide at the outer end.
The upper stem joint is large, and extends in width considerably beyond all succeeding joints.
A similar base exists in Mill.
Milleri (PI.
96), in which again the upper columnar joint is laterally extended and strictly interradial, the columnar canal round, and much smaller than the open space within the basal ring, which is star-shaped, the rays directed radiall3^ A very different base is figured by De Loriol in Apiocrinus magnificus (Pts.
46-48), in which the top stem joint takes the form of the anchylosed underbasal disk of the Palseocrinoid genus Stemmatocrinus.
A comparison, however, with other species proves very clearly, that it is a top stem joint of a very extreme form, and that the plate actually rests against the outer faces of the basals, and not between the hasals as in the case of the inner plate in Stemmatocrinus and Cupressocriyius, which Carpenter (Chall.
Rep., p. 152), as we think, erroneously took to be a stem joint.
The plate in Apiocrinus niagnificus is not, as should be supposed from appearances, disposed radially, but interradiall}', as shown by comparison with species having a pentangular stem.
It attained its radial angles accidentall}^ by adapting its form to the basal concavity which is naturally angular.
The case is parallel to that of Eucalyjytocrinus and Bari^andeocrinus, in which the angles of the upper column are shaped so as to conform with surrounding plates, which are in that genus the radials.
In Apiocrinus Parkinsoni (Pts.
27 and 28) and in A. roissyanus (Pts.
41-45), the basal structure is similar to that of Ichthyocrinus, but, while in the latter the underbasals are persistent through life, they may have disappeared in the other.
The basal concavity is shallow, and in both species the upper portions of the column taper abruptlj'^ in a downward direction.
The same is the case frequently among the Ichthyocrinida3.
The base of Guettardicrinus and Rhizocrinus is in a similar condition, but less concave.
For Rhizocrinus we refer to the Challenger Report, PI.
x, figs.
5 and 9.
The top stem joint resembles closely that of Ajnocrinus, and also the basal concavity, which also here is filled completely by the top joint.
The columnar canal is circular or ovoid, and much smaller than the pentangular space within the basal ring, which, contrary to monoC3^clic Crinoids, is directed radially.
The same is the case in Guettardicrinus.
Both genera are built on the same plan as Apiocrinus, and if the latter possessed underbasals, these plates were also present in Rhizocrinus and Guettardicrinus.
In the Pentracrinidffi, and not only in Extracrinus, in which underbasals have been observed, but also in Pentracrinus and Metacrinus in which they are said to be absent, the angles of the column, without exception, are interradial, the lateral cirrhi radial, but, while the axial canals of Metacrinus, and probably Extracrinus, are radial ^ in conformity with dicyclic Palseocrinoids, they are interradial in Pentacrinus,^ as in all monoc}'"1 Challenger Report, PI.
12, figs.
1 and 2, and PI.
41, figs.
6 and 7.
2 PI.
12, figs.
15 and 16 ; PI.
20, figs.
1 and 2 ; PI.
22, figs.
1, 2, 7 ; PI.
23, figs.
1 and 2 ; Pi.
26, fig.
11 ; PI.
27, figs.
2, 3 ; PI.
30, fig.
4 ; PI.
34, figs.
8 and 9 ; PI.
37, figs.
14 and 15. clic older Ciinoids.
This departure from what we discovered to be the rule in the Palteocrinoidea induced us not to mention the axial canals in suggesting on p. 71 that perhaps " all Neocrinoids, or at least many of them, may have possessed in their larval state rudimentary underbasals hidden by the column," basing our arguments mainly upon the interradial angles of the column and the radial position of the columnar cirrhi.
This forms at present an objection to our view that the two genera, and especially Pentacrinus, are dic^xlic.
On the other hand it must not be overlooked that the position of the column, whether radial or interradial, apparently is governed by laws similar to those by which the underbasals are radial, the basals interradial.
The pentapartite stem and this is found in quite a number of palaeozoic genera, especially Silurian alternates always with the proximal ring of plates, the segments are radial when there are basals only, interradial when also underbasals are present.
In Paheocrinoids in which the column is undivided and pentangular, its position, whether radial or interradial.
is ascertained from its lateral angles, and hence their direction morphologicallj^ important.
In species in which the underbasals are small, and completely covered by the column, as sometimes in Barycrinus, the angles of the column occupy the same relative position toward the basals, as the upper stem joint of Metacrinus, Pentacrinus, Millericrinus and the centrodorsal of all Comatulge does toward their basals.
This led us to the conclusion that either the rules, which meet with no exception among Palseocrinoidea, as far as we know, either do not hold good for the Neocrinoidea, or the genera to which we alluded, and which are built otherwise upon the plan of dicyclic Crinoids, really possessed rudimentarj^ underbasals during life as Extracrinus and certain species of Millericrinus^ or that perhaps underbasals were present in their larva.
The ventral surface of the centrodorsal in some species of Antedon is almost identical with that of the top stem joint of Millericrinus,t\iQ plate is also interradial (PL 6, fig.
11), and rests, as in the Apiocrinidse, against the outer face of the basals, not within the basal ring.
It is similar in other Comatulae, in all of which the centrodorsal is interradial, and upon this mainly, we base the opinion that perhaps also the Comatulae in their early larva had rudimentary underbasals.
That these plates, if present, were not observed, is not surprising, as they may have been very minute and been covered entirely b}' the column.
Zittel suggested (Handb.
d.
Palseont., i, p. 390), that the plate which connects with the basals in Apiocrinus probably represented an anchylosed underbasal disk, composed of five pieces.
That this is impossible is shown by the case of Mill, polydactylus, which in that case would have two rings of underbasals.
We fully agree with De Loriol and Carpenter that it is an enlarged stem joint, and believe that the plate represents morphologically the top joint (the first one beneath the basals) of all Crinoids, recent or fossil.
The plate forms no integral part of the calyx, but rests in all cases either against the dorsal (outer) face of the basals, against the underbasals, or against both of them.
It is disposed interradially in the Apiocrinidse, Pentacrinidse and Comatulfie, similar to dicyclic Pal^ocrinoids, and undivided ; while in other groups it is sometimes compound (tripartite or quinquepartite).
The underbasals, however, form an integral part of the calyx, they rest within the basal ring, against the lateral faces of the plates, and they are composed primarily of five pieces, which occasionall}' are reduced by anchylosis to three, or coalesced into a solid disk.
If this is correct, it follows that the inner plate of Stemmatocrinns, Cupressocrinus and allied genera is not a stem joint, as suggested by Carpenter (Chall.
Rep. 153) and others, but an anchjdosed underbasal disk, as seen by examining the inner side of the calyx, which shows that the plate forms a part of the calyx, and rests against the lateral faces of the basals, within the basal ring, and not against their outer faces.
ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS.
Owing to peculiar circumstances preventing a suificiently careful supervision of ljublication (although the proofs were carefully examined by one of the authors), a number of errors have been detected, especially in the first section of Pt, III.
Two or three of these are exceedingly annoying, entirely changing our meaning.
We request our readers to make the changes at once in their copies as indicated below.
Part I.
On p. 239 (Ex.
Ed., p. Ki), 6th line from bottom, for "Palseocrinoids" read ^'Pcntacrinoids.
''^ On p. 251 (Ex.
Ed., p. 28), 16th line from top, for "first radials" read "basals''^ (although the interpretation thus indicated has been modified by us).
On p. 324 (Ex.
Ed., p. 101), 11th and 10th line from bottom, change twice: "radial" into '^interradial,^^ and " interradial " into "radial'^ Part II, On p. 207 (Ex, Ed,, p. 33), 4th line from bottom, for "inverted" read ^'recumbent.''''
On p. 247 (Ex.
Ed., p. 78), 19tli line from bottom, for " ornigranules " read " ornigranulus.
''^ On p, 250 (Ex.
Ed,, p, 76), 4tli line from top, for "vesiculus" read ^' vesiculosus.'"
On p. 281 (Ex.
Ed., p, 107), 20th line from top, for " elongatulus " i-ead ' ' elegantulus. '
' On p. 281 (Ex.
Ed., p. 107), IGth line from top, for "comptus" read "comtus;^' and 20th line from bottom, for " Harbrocrinus " read " Habrocrinus.^' On p. 298 (Ex, Ed., p. 124), 2d line from top, for "posterior" read " superior.''''
On p. 299 (Ex.
Ed., p. 125), 7th line from top, for "first" read "second,:'' Onp, 319 (Ex, Ed,, p. 145), 2d line from bottom, for "tennuis" read "tenuis:^ On p, 320 (Ex.
Ed,, p. 146), 1st line from top, for " tennuisculptus " read " tenuisculptus:' Onp.
356 (Ex.
Ed., p. 182), 12th line from top, for "basals" read "underiasals.
'^ On p. 389 (Ex.
Ed., p. 215), 4th and 11th lines from top, for "pendant" read " pendent: ' On p. 393 (Ex.
Ed., p. 219), 14th line from top, for " mammilaris " read "moAnmiUaris:' Part III, Sect, I. Onp.
228 (Ex.
Ed,, p. 6), top line, insert after "and" the words "we think:' Onp, 229 (Ex, Ed., p. 7), 5th line from bottom, for "radials" read "interradials:' and 4th line from bottom, for " interradials " read "radials:' Onp.
230 (Ex.
Ed,, p, 8), 15th line from top, after the word "cirrhi" insert * ' when present. '
' On p. 232 (Ex.
Ed., p. 10), 10th and 11th lines from top, for "posterolateral" read " antero-lateraV On p. 235 (Ex, Ed., p. 13), 8th and 10th lines from top, for " PI, 6 " read "PI.
5;" also 4th line from bottom, for " Hoplocrinus " re?id.
"naplocrinus:' On p. 241 (Ex.
Ed., p. 19) : Our statement in the 16th and 17th lines from bottom has been made the basis of a criticism by Dr. P. H. Carpenter, which is well founded.
It did not properly express our meaning, and we change it as follows : Strike out all after the word "present" to the end of the sentence, and insert : "in others apparently absent externally, either as a rule or occasionally, but in these cases ice believe them to be represented on the ventral side, as in the Crotalocrinidce:' In the same connection, on p. 295 (Ex.
Ed,, p, 73), m the 12th line from the top, strike out "all," and after the word "are" insert "generally:^ 1886.]
NATtJRAL SCIENCES OP tHltADELPHIA.
225 On p. 245 (Ex.
Ed., p. 23), 3d line from top, for "Paleeocrinidse " read ' ' Palmocrinoidea. '
' On p. 249 (Ex.
Ed., p. 27), 6th line from bottom of text, for "PI.
2 " read " PI.
5."
On p. 253 (Ex.
Ed., p. 31), 8tli line from top, for "stellatus" read " stellaris.^^ On p. 254 (Ex.
Ed., p. 32), ISth line from top, before "alone" insert "^er7ia;?s," On p. 255 (Ex, Ed., p. 33), 14th line from bottom, for " multiradiatus " read "multibracMatus,''' and for "fig.
2" read "fig.
G ;" also 11th line from bottom for "Norwordi" read '^ Norwoodii;"' also 5th line from bottom, for "to each plate" read ''or more.
'^ On p. 263 (Ex.
Ed., p. 41), 5th line from bottom, for "radials" read "interradials.
''^ On p. 277 (Ex.
Ed., p. 55), 14th line from bottom, for "PI.
8" read "PL 9."
On p. 285 (Ex.
Ed., p. 63), 9th line from top, for "PI.
1 " read "Pi.
4."
On p. 287 (Ex.
Ed., p. 65), 5th line from bottom, for "lovensis" read "wwe?i8is."
On p. 291 (Ex.
Ed., p. 69), 12th line from top, for "anal" read "oraZ."
On p. 292 (Ex.
Ed., p. 70), 14th line from top, read "PakBocri7ioidea."'
On.
p. 294 (Ex.
Ed., p. 72), last line, for "as a rale" read "always On p. 295 (Ex.
Ed., p. 73), top line, for "Palseozic" read " Palmzoic On p. 300 (Ex.
Ed., p. 78), at top, for " Stellerites " read " Stellerids."
On p. 303 (Ex.
Ed., p. 81), 16th line from bottom, for " Palseocrinoidse " read " Pal(eocrinoidea.
'^ On p. 307 (Ed.
Ed., p. 85), 15th line from top, for " Beteocrinus " read "Betcocrinus.
''^ On p. 812 (Ex.
Ed., p. 90), 6th line from bottom, for " Platynicridse " read ' ' Pla tycrinidce. '
' On p. 331 (Ex.
Ed., p. 99), under Thylacocrinus, for "Vanuiosti" read " VanniotV On p. 327 (Ex.
Ed., p. 105), top line, for " mespiliformes " read "mespiliformis.
''^ On p. 336 (Ex.
Ed., p. 114), 12th line from bottom, for "simple" read "singled On p. 349 (Ex.
Ed., p. 127), 18th line from bottom, for " Nebergangsgeb.," read " Uebergangsgeb.f^ and on the 11th line, for "Dupe" read "Huper On p. 359 (Ex.
Ed., p. 137), 9th line from top, for "peristjmeal" read "peristomial;'^ and 12th line, for "were" read " loas.^^ Mr. W. R. Billings discovered underbasals in Olyptocrinus priscus, and we therefore refer the species to "Ptychocrinug.'''
He also did send a diagram of Rhodocrinus (f) asperatus, which leaves but little doubt that it is a somewhat aberrant form of " AreJiwocrinus.^^ 5 Part III, Sect.
II.
On p. 71 (Ex.
Ed., in 147), 13tli line from bottom, strike out the word "constructed."
On p. 79 (Ex.
Ed., p. 155), 2d line from bottom, read " Myrtillocriniis" without an "7t."
On p. 89 (Ex.
Ed., p. 165), 10th line from top, for "Austin!"
read "AiistiniV On p. 90 (Ex.
Ed., p. 166), 3d line from bottom, for " Scytalocrinus " read ' ' Stylocrinus. '
' On p. 99 (Ex.
Ed., p. 175), 11th line from top, for -'T.
granulatus" read " T. pyriformis.^^ On p. 105 (Ex.
Ed., p. 181), 14th line from bottom, for "pyrimidalis" read "pyramidalis."
On p. 115 (Ex.
Ed., p. 191), 15th line from top, for " Streblocrinus " read ' 'S&eptocrinus. '
' On p. 150 (Ex.
Ed., p. 228), 22d line from top, for "subuminus" read " subtumidm.
''^ On p. 157 (Ex.
Ed., p. 233), 18th line from top, strike out the brackets and insert "commas " in their place.
On p. 161 (Ex.
Ed., p. 237), 5th line from bottom, for " Dactilocrinus " read ^'Dactylocriims.'''
On p. 162 (Ex.
Ed., p. 238), 13th line from top, for "single" read "iimple."
On p. 163 (Ex.
Ed., p. 239), 16th line from bottom, for " Parisocrinus " read ' ' Pachylocrinus. '
' On p. 166 (Ex.
Ed., p. 242), 11th line from bottom, insert: ''*Woodocrinus coxanus, Worthen {Zeacrinus coxanus), Oeol.
Rep. Illinois, mi, p. 302, PL 28, fig.
1.
Keokuk gr.
Hamilton, III.
Syn.
Zeacrinus Keokuk, ibid., p. 303, fig.
3."
On p. 167 (Ex.
Ed., p. 243), 10th line from bottom, for "PI.
6, fig.
3," read "PI.
6, fig.
9 and PL 9, fig.
5."
On page 169 (Ex.
Ed., p. 245), 5th line from bottom, for "orbicularis" read "glohularis.
''^ On p. 171 (Ex.
Ed., p. 247), 12th line from bottom, for " Epachycrinus " read "Eupachycrinus."
On p. 173 (Ex.
Ed., p. 249), 17th line from bottom, for " platybasilis " read "platyhasalis.^'' On p. 175 (Ex.
Ed., p. 251), 15th line from top, add the word " right'' before postero-lateral .
On 177 (Ex.
Ed., p. 253), 18th line from bottom, for " Eriocrinus" read "Erisocrinus.'''
On p. 197 (Ex.
Ed., p. 273), 21st line from top, leave out the word "axial"' before "canal.
"*' 1886.]
natural sciences of philadetphia.
22t April 6.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
Permission having been given, Prof. Heilprin withdrew his paper entitled " On a Giant Conorbis from the Oligocene of Florida."
The death of Charles Wilt, a member, was announced.
Fresh-water Sponges from Newfoundland : A new Species.
Mr. Edward Potts stated that in the latter part of August, 1885, Mr. A. H. MacKay, of Pictou, Nova Scotia, whose success as a collector of fresh-water sponges in his own neighborhood has been already recorded (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1884, p. 215, etc.
), made a scientific visit to the island of Newfoundland.
His explorations were mainl}' limited to the irregular peninsula of Avalon,the southeasterly extremity of the island, and the record of his collections beside mentioning the neighborhood of the city of St. Johns, embraces such familiar names as Trinity Bay, Harbor Grace, and Heart's Content, the landing place of the Atlantic cable.
He writes " I was extremely sorry that owing to ray limited time and the impenetrability of the interior to any ordinary effort, I could not gain access to the great lakes in the heart and the western portion of the island.
I have merely made a dip into a few of the ponds on the N.
(?)
E.
coast."
These are more particularly mentioned as Virginia and Ouidi Vidi Lakes, near St. Johns ; Lady Lake, Bannerman Lake, Rocky Lake and Carbonear Lake, small bodies of water near Harbor Grace ; and other lakelets and brooks upon the rocky ridges and near the sea level between Harbor Grace and Heart's Content.
All this region is described as "the Canadian Huronian, the equivalent of the English Cambrian," and the collections were generall}^ limited to the shallow margins of the ponds, where the sponges were found upon the under sides of splinters of hard slaty quartzites, in numbers very plentiful, but generally small ; " from mere points to an inch or more in diameter."
It is to be regretted that the date of Mr. MacKay's visit was necessarily so early in the year, as the specimens collected were either immature or contained onl}^ the degenerate statoblasts of the preceding season.
The information gathered as to the range of temperature upon this island, is valuable as indicating so far the conditions of the growth of these and other organisms.
He says : " The Island is not extreme in its temperature, and the frost does not go very deep into the soil.
The lakes freeze in November or December with ice at least a foot in thickness, and remain closed until the end of April.
The average temperature during eight years, from 1857 to 1864, was 41-2 Fahr.
Average maximum thermometer during the same time 83, minimum 7.
In the year 1879, the mean temperature was 40*2 Fahr,; highest record August 3, 82; lowest December 22, +4.
In Nova Scotia, though that is so much further south, the range is far greater, from +96 to 20 or 24 Fahr., with an annual average of 44."
The specimens of sponges so kindly forwarded by Mr. MacKay for examination and report, were more or less minute incrustations upon small stones, gathered as above indicated, and belonged to the species SjMngilla lacustris, Auct.
; S. fragilis, Leidy ; S. mackayi, Carter ; Meyenia Jiuviatilis, Auct., and Heteromeyenia pictovensis and Tubella pennsylvanica, Potts.
Of these, Spongilla fragilis was by far the most abundant, and our knowledge of its range is thus extended along the Eastern coast of North America from Florida to Newfoundland ; whereas it had previously been traced westwardly to British Columbia near the Pacific Ocean, and more recently has been discovered in Russia, Bohemia and England.
Beside the familiar species, S. lacustris, S. fragilis and M. fluviatilis, Tubella pennsylvanica has been rapidly enlarging its borders beyond the narrow limits of its original territorial designation ; while S. mackayi and H. pictovensis had previously been known only from the discoveries of Mr. MacKa}^ in Nova Scotia.
One other form remains to be described, and at the suggestion of its discoverer it is hereby designated Spongilla Nov^ Terk^, n. sp.
Sponge incrusting ; sarcode of the 3'oung growth, a dense mass of minute spherical cells, embedding slender curving lines of fasciculated skeleton spicules, developing later into a very loose, open tissue, with few connecting spicules.
Gemmules rather numerous, unusually large, spherical ; chitinous coat thin ; " crust " apparentl}'^ wanting.
Skeleton spicules relatively few, slender, cylindrical, smooth or sparsely microspined ; gradually pointed.
Dermal or flesh spicules very abundant, minute hirotulates of unequal size ; shafts slender, cylindrical, occasionally spined ; outer surface of rotules dome shaped ; rays prolonged, terminations acute ; malformations frequent.
Mixed with occasional linear, spined spicules.
1886.]
229 Spicules upon the gemmulaj abundant, crossing each other upon the crustless, chitinous body.
Their shape when smooth is robust -fusiform, with pointed terminations ; the great majority, however, have from one to six or more long spines, nonsymmetrically placed, but with an evident tendency to group themselves at points about one-fourth the length of the spicule from one or both of its extremities.
Measurements : Diameter of gemmules 0'036 inches ; skeleton spicules, 0-0068 by 0*0002 inches ; length of average dermal spicule, 0'00066 inches ; of gemmula spicule, 0*00145 inches.
Habitat.
Encrusting stones in shallow water.
Locality.
Lakes or ponds in the vicinity of Heart's Content, Newfoundland ; collected by Mr. A. H. MacKay.
All the specimens of this sponge came from the neighborhood of Heart's Content, but whether they were gathered from a lake upon the heights or from a brook mentioned by Mr. MacKay near the sea level, does not seem entirely clear.
The accompanying illustration (magnified 225 diameters) will suggest the peculiarities of its skeleton, dermal and gemmular spiculation.
The striking resemblance of the dermal spicules to the minute birotulates, heretofore only known in a corresponding position, in the case of Meyenia evei'etti, will at once impress the student.
These are however more variable in size, are occasionally spined, and have their rays more prolonged and more delicately terminated.
It is in the singular character of the spicules surrounding the gemmulae that this sponge must attract peculiar attention.
By the system of H, J. Carter, Esq., the fresh-water sponges are now classified into six genera, beside some conditional designations of forms in which the typical features are as yet undiscovered.
These six, Spongilla, Meyenia, Heteromeyenia, Tubella, Parmula and Carteriiis, may again be associated into two groups, one of them including only the genus Sj'ongilla, characterized by the linear acerate spicules surrounding the gemmulae ; and the other comprising all the other genera, where the spicule of corresponding significance is a hirotulate or some easily recognized derivative of that type.
Within this latter and larger group intermediate forms, connecting the defined genera, are frequent, and the location of species upon one side or other of the distinctive line comparatively unimportant.
Heretofore, between tlie genus Spovgilla and those genera comprising the other group, there has been " a great gulf fixed."
One only case in the past has suggested their possible association, or the development of one group from the other.
In Meyenia acuminata, Potts (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1882, p. 69), since regarded as a variety of M. Jluviatilis, the shafts of the birotulates are prolonged at each extremity, forming acuminate terminations some distance beyond the surface of the rotules.
In position, also, these spicules are abnormal, lying flat upon the chitinous coat, instead of resting upon one rotule, their shafts taking the position of radii, as is usual in this form.
In fact we have the spicules of a Meyenia occupying the ordinary positions, and in degree approximating the forms of those peculiar to the SpongilliB.
In the present instance their intermediate character is still more striking, and while their form and position probably more closely associate them with the genus Spongilla in which the species has now been placed, the grouping of the ray-like species clearly suggests Meyenia.
It has been an altogether unprecedented experience with the author to hesitate between these two genera, and it will be no cause of surprise if the future teacher shall shift it from its present position.
It must not escape notice that in both of these instances the gemmuliB are without " crust;" that it is difficult to understand how birotulates could be supported in their ordinary i)ositions without these embedding granules ; and that we may not unreasonably infer that the change in position has induced the modification of type that we here find.
This collection of sponges, including the new species, has been examined coincideutly by H, J. Carter, Esq., F. R. S., and their identification and this description are believed to meet his approval.
April 1.3.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The death of the Hon.
John Welsh, a member, was announced.
April 20.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The death of Andrew Nebinger,M.D., a member, was announced.
1886.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
231 April 27.
The President, Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in the chair.
On Anthracomai^tus Trilobitus Scud.
Prof. F. L. Harvey remarked that the coal field of North Arkansas belongs to the western interior coal area, which covers the greater part of Missouri, and extends into Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Indian Territory, Arkansas and Texas.
This vast field covers 78,000 square miles, of which about 10,000 are in Arkansas and 12,000 in the Indian Territory.
It belongs to the lowest, the suhconglomerate.
The veins occur in the shales of the millstone grit, less than 100 feet above the Archimedes limestone.
There is only one vein in the northern limit, which is from eight to eighteen inches .thick.
In the Arkansas River valley there are three veins which often have an aggregate thickness of over six feet.
The veins lie high in the hills in the Boston Mountains, but the southward dip brings them in the Arkansas River valley, beneath the drainage of the country.
The veins in north Arkansas are worked in a limited way by scalping and drifting, but shaft mining is done at Coal Hill, Spadra and other points and there is at present considerable coal exported to New Orleans down the Arkansas valley route.
The conditions were most favorable for the preservation of plant remains.
Beautifully preserved plants occur in the shales above the coal vein of northwest Arkansas and limited research in Washington County alone yielded the speaker over 100 species new to the State and fifteen new to science.
While searching for fossil plants in the brash shale near the coal, a specimen of fossil spider was found.
By carefully working over a few tons of shale several more specimens were procured.
The material was sent to Prof. Scudder for examination and he named the form Anthracomartus trilobitus, sp.
nov.
It is believed to be the only species of the genus found in the coal measures of the United States.
The genus was founded upon a single European species.
It is interesting that a second species should be found so far separated.
Fossil insects are scarce in the suhconglomerate, and the three known from Arkansas are, a wing of Blattina venusta, discovered by Prof. Lesquereux and figured in Owen's Report of Arkansas, vol.
ii, p. 312 ; the species of spider under consideration and an undescribed Neuropterous larva in the cabinet of the speaker.
The description and figure of this Anthracomartus, so far as we know, has not been published, but is enumerated in Mr. R. D. Lacoe's " Check List of Palaeozoic Insects."
Less than a dozen specimens are known and they are in the cabinets of Prof. Scudder, Mr. R. D. Lacoe and the speaker, besides the specimen presented to the Academy this evening.
The specimens are all imperfect, showing only the abdomen and a part of the cephalothorax.
The most of tliem were compressed vertically and give a transverse view.
Tlie compressed abdomen reminds one of the pygidium of a trilobite, hence the specific name.
A single specimen compressed laterally shows well the elevated and rounded abdomen characteristic of our modern spiders.
The cephalothorax is minutely punctate.
The species is interesting as occurring at the base of the coal measures.
The locality is no longer worked and the species may be considered scarce.
Messrs. Calvin McCormick and Samuel Wagner were elected members.
The following was ordered to be printed : A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN GASTER0STEID.5:.
BY CARL H. EIGENMANN.
In this paper I have attempted to give the synonymy of the American species of G aster osteidae with analytical keys for their identification, and such notes as my studies of the group seem to justify.
The specimens examined all belong to the Museum of the Indiana University.
I am indebted to Dr. David S. Jordan for the use of his library and for many suggestions.
Analysis of Gene7-a of Gasterosteidse.
a. Snout not prolonged ; dorsal spines 3 to 11. b. Innominate bones joined, forming a median plate on belly behind ventral fins.
c. Gill membranes joined ; their posterior border free from the isthmus ; spines small, mostly feeble.
d. Dorsal spines 7 to 11, weak, divergent ; innominate bones with the outer edge stout and thick; the median part scarcely ossified ; pubic bones long, weak, widely divergent, leaving a <l-shaped naked area in front of ventral spines ; body slender.
Pygosteus.
1. dd.
Dorsal spines 5, non-divergent, of moderate size; innominate bones united, forming a short, narrow but strong ventral plate ; pubic bones weak, short, widely divergent, leaving a subcircular space in front of ventral spines ; body rather stout ; skin smooth.
Eucalia.
2. cc.
Gill membranes narrowly joined to the isthmus ; innominate bones large and strong ; spines of fins mostly strong ; divergent ; dorsal spines 3 or 4 in number ; pubic bones very broad, long and little divergent, leaving a lanceolate-shaped, naked area in front of the ventrals ; form robust ; skin mailed or naked.
Gasterosteus.
3.
66.
Innominate bones not joined, but each extending as a strong process under the skin on outside of insertion of ventrals ; the area between them flat and not ossified ; pubic bones short and weak, not visible externally ; dorsal spines strong, divergent, 4 in number ; gill membrane broadly joined to the isthmus; body rather stout; the caudal peduncle very slender ; skin smooth.
Apeltes.
4.
16 aa.
Snout projecting, subtubiform ; dorsal spines small, about 15 ; innominate bones joined only at base ; body elongate ; sides mailed.
Spinachia.
5.
1.
PYGOSTEUS.
Pyrjosteus (Brevoort MSS.)
Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 1861.
(Not characterized); Canadian Naturalist, ii, 8; August, 1865 {occidentalis).
Oasterostea Sauvage, Revision dcs Epinoches, 29, 1874 {pungitius).
This genus is cbaracterized by the presence ofl to 1 1 divergent dorsal spines and by the weakness of the innominate bones.
It differs from Gaster-osteus also, in having the posterior margin of the gill membrane free and by the less development of the spinous armature.
But a single species, variable in its characters, seems to be known.
It is widely distributed in the fresh and brackish waters of northern regions.
Analysis of Species of Pygosteus.
a.
Body extremely elongate and slender, deepest at ventral spines, decreasing in height towards head and tail.
Head long, 4 in length to base of caudal.
Mouth large, very oblique ; maxillary not reaching to anterior margin of orbit.
Teeth small, in a single series.
Eye large, its diameter greater than snout.
Caudal peduncle keeled, slender and long, about 5 in length to base of caudal.
No bony plates along side ; small plates extending along the bases of the anal and soft dorsal.
Post pectoral plate present, large and faintly granulate.
Scapula forming a triangular post opercular plate ; operculum striate.
All the surface bones very weak, bones of scull granulate; innominate bones weak, translucent, thin in the median part.
Gill openings extending to below posterior edge of preopercle.
Vertebrae (pungitius) 14 + 18.
Caudal fin lunate, long and narrow.
b. Ventral spines more than one-third of head.
I).
VII.
to IX-1, 9; A.
1, 8.
Pungitius.
1.
66.
Ventral spines less than one-third length of head.
D. XI.
10 ; A. I, 10.
Brachypoda.
1 (a.)
1.
PYGOSTEUS.
1.
P. pungitius.
Gasterosteus aculeis in dorso decern Artecli, Gen. Pise, 52, 1738.
Oasterosteus pungitius LmnsBua, Syst.
Nat., Edit, x, L. 296, 1758 (bastd on Artedi) (and of European authors generally); Storer, Rept.
Fish.
Mass., 32, 1839 (Salem); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 10 (Boston); Goode & Bean, Fish.
Essex Co. and Mass.
Bay, 5, 1879 (Salem Pond); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 77 (Wood's HoU); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 128 (Hudson Bay); Jordan and Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 393, 1883 ; Steams, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 124 (Labrador).
Pygosteus pungitius Forbes, Bull.
111.
Lab.
Nat.
Hist., iii, 69, 1880 (Calumet R.; Lake Michigan); Jordan, Ohio Geol.
Rep., 999, 1882 (Name only); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 63, 1885.
Gasterosteus pungitivus Walbaum, Artedi Piscum, 446, 1792 (After Artedi).
Gasterosteus occidentalis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poissons, iv, 509, 1829 (Newfoundland); Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 68, plate XLH, fig.
135, 1842 (New York) ; Jordan, Cat.
Freshwater Fish.
U. S., 441, 1878 (Name only).
Gasterosteus pungitius var.
occidentalis Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 6, 1859 (North America).
Pygosteus occidentalis (Brevoort MSS.)
Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (East Coast); Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Jordan, Man.
Vert., 248, 1876 (Great Lakes); Goode, Bull., xiv, TJ.
S. Nat.
Mus., 53, 1879 (Name only); Goode, Bull, xxi, U. S. Nat.
Mus., 31, 1880 (Name only).
Gasterostea occidentalis Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches 30, plate i, fig.
18, 1874 (Newfoundland).
Gasterosteus concinnus Richardson, "Fauna Bor.
America, iii, 57," 1836 (Saskatchawan and Mackenzie Rivers); Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 68, 1842 (Northern regions); Giinther, Cat.
Fish, Brit.
Mus., i, 6, 1859 (copied).
Pygosteus concinnus Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A.
Fresh Water Fish., 40, 1876 ; Jordan, Cat.
Fresh Water Fish N. A., 441,' 1878 (Name only).
Gasterostea concinna Sauvage, Revision des EiJinoches, 35, 1874 (Name only), Gasterosteus mainensis Storer, Boston Journal Nat.
Sci., i, 465, 1837 (Kennebec Co., Maine); Dekay, Nat, Hist.
N. Y., 68, 1842 (copied); Giinther, Cat.
Fish, Brit, Mus., i, 6, 1859 (copied); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 33, 1874 (copied).
Pygosteus mainensis Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A.
Fresh Water Fish, 140, 1870 (Name only); Jordan, Cat.
Fresh Water Fish N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only).
Pygosteus occidenialis var.
mainensis Jordan, Man, Vert., 348, 1876 (Kennebec Riv.).
Gasterosteus nebulosus Agassiz, Lake Superior, 310, plate iv, fig.
4, 1850 (Lake Superior).
Pygosteus nehulosus Jordan, Fish.
Indiana, 31, 1874 (Lake Michigan); Jordan and Copeland, Checklist N. A.
Fresh Water Fish., 140, 1876 (Name only); Nelson, Bull.
111.
Lab.
Nat.
Hist., i, 42, 1877 (Lake Michigan).
Pygosteus ocndentalls var.
nebulosus Jordan, Man.
Vert., 248, 1874 ; Jordan, Bull.
Ills.
Lab.
Nat.
Hist., ii, 51, 1877 (Lake Michigan); Jordan, Cat.
Fresh "Water Fish.
N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only).
Gasterosteus dekayi Agassiz, "Lake Superior, 311," 1850 (after Dekay); Putnam, "Proc.
Essex Inst., 148, 155 ;" Putnam, Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
i, 11, 1863 ; Storer, Hist.
Fish.
Mass., 91, plate viii, fig.
3, 1867 (Massachusetts).
Pygosteus dekayi Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only).
Gasterostea dekayi Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 31, 1874 (New York).
Gasterostea blancTiardi Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 32, 1874 (New York); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 31 (Boston).
1 ft. P. pungitius brachypoda.
Gasterosteus jmngitius brachypoda Bean, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., xv, 129, 1879 (Oosooadlin Mountain Streams and Lakes); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 77 (American Harbor); Bean, Arctic Cruise, 118, 1881 (Elephant Point, near Icy Cape); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 240 (St. Paul, Kodiak ; Unga Island, Shumagins ; Iliuliuk Lake, Unalaska ; St. Paul Island, Bering Sea ; St. Michaels ; Port Clarence ; Elephant Point ; Eschscholtz Bay ; Icy Cape, Arctic Ocean; Alaska; Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 270 (Pacific South of Bering Strait); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
N. A.
Fish., 394, 1883; Bean, BuU.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., xxi, 19, 1883 (St. Michaels, Alaska).
Gasterosteus pungitius Stejneger, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 65 (Commander Islands).
Habitat.
Shores of Northern Europe and Eastern America South to New York, also in the great Lakes and northward ; var.
brachypoda in the North Pacific, the specimens examined by me are from Calumet Lake, Ills., and from Massachusetts.
The synonom^^ of this species, as given above, needs a word of remark.
The pungitivus of Walbaum is of course identical with the pungitius of Linnaeus.
I cannot see that east coast specimens, representing the occidentalis of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and that of Dekay, differ at all from descriptions of the European pungitius, but I have had no specimens of the latter for direct comparison.
I cannot, therefore, regard occidentalis as a separate species or variety.
The dekaiji of Agassiz is based on the occidentalis of Dekaj' ; I have therefore placed it also in the synonymy of pungitius.
The mainensis of Storer is said to differ from pungitius only in having a " bony serrated plate on the side."
This probably refers to the plate behind the pectorals.
The concinnus of Richardson is said to differ in having seven dorsal spines, but as the number seems to vary from 7 to 11, this cannot be considered as a specific character.
I have examined specimens from Calumet, R. Illinois (presumably representing the form called nehulosus).
I can find no difference whatever between these and Massachusetts examples of pungitius.
The var.
hrachypoda seems to differ from pungitius only in the shorter ventral spines.
It is known to me only from the description of Dr. Bean (above cited).
2.
EUCALIA.
Eucalia 3ovA.2ia, Man.
Vert,, ed.
i, 248, 1876 (inconstans) .
This genus is closely allied to Pygosteus, agreeing with it in the structure of the gill membranes, but differing in having the dorsal spines few and non-divergent, and in having the innominate bones more fully united.
The species are the most feebly armed of the Sticklebacks.
Analysis of Species of Eucalia.
a.
Body moderately robust, the caudal peduncle not very slender; depth 4 in length to base of caudal.
Head pointed ; mouth small, very oblique ; maxillary reaching to anterior margin of eye ; teeth small, stout, in a single series ; eye large, much longer than snout.
Caudal peduncle moderately compressed, 7^ times in length to base of caudal.
No bony dermal plates ; skin naked ; no postopercular (suprascapular) plate ; post-pectoral plate covered by skin ; skin of head not ossified.
Lateral line beginning at upper angle of preopercle and curved to below fourth dorsal spine, from where it goes straight to middle of tail ; a second row of tubes is seen for a small distance along its origin.
A patch of mucous pores at beginning of lateral line ; a row along the edge of the preopercle and a c-shaped row at nape.
Dorsal spines about equal to one-half diameter of eye, the first just reaching base of second; these spines are recurved and slightly serrate on their edges ; the fifth spine is more recurved and higher than the others.
Soft dorsal very high in front, its longest ray about equal to snout and half the orbit ; the last ray equals half the orbit ; caudal short and broad ; anal inserted below insertion of second dorsal, similar to and coterminous with it.
Pectorals short and broad, their length equal to their breadth at tips.
Vertebrse (cayuga), 14 + 18.
Brownish with lighter blotches and black points.
Males in spring black, tinged with red on the jaws and snout.
b. Ventral spines equal to f length of innominate bones ; postpectoral plate large, variable, mostl}' V-shaped.
D. IV-I, 10 ; A. I, 10.
Inconstans.
2. bb.
Ventral spines short, but longer than innominate bones ; post-pectoral smaller than in preceding, mostly f|-shaped.
D. IV-I, 10 ; A. I, 10. cayuga.
2 (a).
bbb. "
D. Ill or IV-I, 6.
A. I, G." (?).
pygmsea.
2 (6).
2.
EUCALIA.
2.
E. inconstans.
Gaaterosteus inconstans Kirkland, Boston Journal Nat.
Hist., iii, 273, 1841 (TmmbuU Co., Ohio); Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 68, 1842 (Name only); Cope, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pkila., 1865, 81 (Sukertoppen, Greenland); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 394, 1883.
Apeltes inconstans Jordan, Fish of Indiana, 31, 1874 (Northern Indiana).
Eucalia inconstans Jordan, Man.
Vert., ed.
i, 249, 1876 (Name only); Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh-water Fish, 141, 1876 (Name only); Nelson, Bull.
Ills.
Tab.
Nat.
Hist., i, 42, 1876 (Copied); Jordan, Bull.
Ills.
Lab.
Nat.
Hist., ii, 58, 1877 (Small Streams of Northern Ills.
); Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1877, 65; Jordan, Cat.
Fresh-water Fish N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only); Forbes, Bull.
Ills.
Lab.
Nat.
Hist., iii, 68, 1880 (Northern Ills.^.
Gasterosteus microptis Cope, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1865, 81 (Fort Riley, Kansas); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 28, 1874 (Copied).
Eucalia micropus Jordan & Copeland, Checkli.st N. A. Fresh-water Fish, 141, 1876 (Kansas).
Oasterosteus gloMceps Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 35, 1874 (North America).
E^icalia inconstans, var.
pygmwa Jordan, Geol.
Report Ohio, 998, 1882 (Central Ohio ; Trib.
of Great Lakes).
2 a. E. inconstans cayuga.
Eucalia inconstans, var.
cayuga Jordan, Man.
Vert., ed.
i, 249, 1876 (Cayuga Lake) ; Jordan c% Copelaud, Checklist N. A. Fresh-water Fish, 141, 1876 (Name only); Jordan, Geol.
Report Ohio, 998, 1882.
2 b. E. inconstans pygmaea.
Gasterosttus pygmmis Agassiz, Lake Superior, 314, 1850 (Lake Superior).
Eucalia inconstans, var.
pygmcea Jordan, Man.
Vert,, ed.
i, 249, 1876 (Copied); Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh-water Fish, 141, 1876 (Name only); Nelson, Bull.
Ills.
Lab.
Nat.
Hist., i, 42, 1876 (Lake Michigan).
Habitat Fresh waters of North America, from Kansas and Great Lake region northward to Greenland.
Var.
cayuga in tributaries of Lake Ontario.
Var.
pygmseus in Great Lakes.
The specimens of the typical inconstans examined by me are from Rock River, Illinois.
Those of the var.
cayuga are from Syracuse, New York.
The micropus of Cope would seem to differ in its shape, beingshorter and deeper, and in having a smaller post-pectoral plate and ventral spines.
All of these characters are of doubtful permanence.
The globiceps of Sauvage offers no peculiar characters.
The var.
cayuga seems to differ from inconstans in having longer ventral spines and smaller post-pectoral plates ; it is perhaps identical with it.
The pygmaea of Agassiz is said to differ from inconstans in having the body shorter and deeper, and in the number of fin rays.
The difference in form is of no importance, and it is not likely that the alleged difference in the fin rays is real.
3.
GASTEROSTEUS.
Oasterosteus Avtedi, Gen. Pise, 52, 1738.
Gasterosteus LinniBus, Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
x, i, 295, 1758 (aculeatus).
G aster acanthus Pallas, "Zoogr.
Rosso, Asiatica, iii, 228," 1811 (cataphar actus).
Leiurus Swainson, Nat.
Hist.
Class Fishes, ii, 242, 1839 (gymnurus, etc.).
This genus is distinguished from Pygosteus and eucalia in having the posterior margin of the gill membrane joined to the isthmus.
The body is more robust ; the spines and innominate bones much stronger ; the pubic bones ver}broad and little divergent.
Its species are the strongest of the sticklebacks and the most fully armed.
All of them are very variable and very closely related one to another.
The species with the bony plates most developed are most marine in their habit, while the partl}'^ or wholly naked forms seem rather to inhabit the rivers.
It may be that a complete gradation exists from the fully armed aciileatus to the naked williamsoni^ in which case all these forms should be regarded as varieties of aculeatus.
All northern regions seem to possess full mailed species (aculeatus and vars.)
and half mailed species (allies of gymnurus).
The former type seems identical on both sides of the Atlantic, but the latter type so far as our specimens can show seems to be different in America from any described in Europe.
Analysis of Species of Gasterosteus.
a.
Sides entirely covered with (28 to 30) bony dermal plates.
Caudal peduncle keeled ; ventral spines each with a large cusp on outer edge of base.
Bones of head striate, the skin ossified.
Mouth large, little oblique ; maxillary not reaching front of eye ; teeth small, in a single series in lower and double series in upper jaw.
The anterior plates are joined above to the large bony plates at base of spines ; the posterior plates are separated from the small plates at bases of soft dorsal and anal by narrow naked strips.
Lateral line high up, parallel with outline of back and along middle of caudal peduncle, which is strongly keeled.
Dorsal spines serrate on their edges.
Origin of soft dorsal far in advance of origin of anal.
Caudal lunate ; anal spine recurved, smaller than third dorsal spine, the fin similar to soft dorsal.
Yentrals long and slender, serrate.
Pectorals narrow.
D. I-I-I, 11 to 13; A. I, 9 or 10. b.
Body moderately robust, the depth 4^ in length.
Aculeatus.
3. bb.
Body deeper and stronger ; caudal keel very strong.
cataphractus.
3.
(a.)
aa.
Sides partly covered with (2 to 15) bony dermal plates, the posterior part of the body naked.
Ventral spines with or without cusp at base.
c. Sides with 15 bony plates ; caudal peduncle keeled ; body slender; ventral spine long, almost or quite reaching vent ; dorsal spines in a straight line.
Head 3^ in length to base of caudal ; depth 5.
D. I-I-I, 11 ; A.
1, 8.
Silvery below with dark bands across the body (Bean).
Atkinsii.
4. cc.
Sides with 2 to 6 bony dermal plates ; caudal peduncle keeled or not.
d. Yentral spine without cusp at base, e. Dermal plates 4 to 6 ; body stout, little compi'essed ; head large, flat above, a small knob at occiput.
Mouth large, maxillary almost reaching front of orbit.
Teeth in broad bands in front.
From occiput, two rows of mucous pores diverge to posterior borders of eye, extending thence parallel with the orbit to above nasal opening forming an arrow-shaped figure.
Plates on sides imbedded, thin; striate ; the last one immediately in front of second dorsal spine.
Post-pectoral plate striate j^-shaped.
Scapula forming a striate post-opercular plate.
Caudal peduncle very thick to a point immediately in front of caudal where it is much compressed.
Innominate bones and ventrals vaiying much in relative length, so that in some specimens the one is the longer in others the other.
Dorsal spines short, straight, broad at base, serrate on outer edges.
First spine about f in eye, third very small.
Caudal slightly lunate.
Anal inserted under fifth dorsal ra}^, coterminous with the dorsal.
Yentrals coarsely serrate on outer and finely on inner edges.
Pectorals broad and short, fan-shaped.
D. I-I-I, 11 to 13 ; A.
1, 9.
Olivaceous, silvery below, thickly punctulate.
MicROCEPHALUS.
5. ee.
Dermal plates on side 2 or 3, strong, not imbedded.
Mouth large, maxillary reaching to below front of orbit.
Mucous pores none.
Scapula forming a post-opercular plate.
All bones thicker and stronger than in micr^ocephalus.
Caudal peduncle compressed for its whole length.
D. I-I-I, 10 to 12 ; A.
1, 8.
Wheatlandi.
6. dd.
Ventral spines each with a distinct cusp at base.
Lower jaw the longer.
Teeth in lower jaw stronger than in upper.
Diameter of orbit 3^ in head.
Sides with 1 plates.
Innominate bones almost reaching vent.
Caudal peduncle with a membranous carina.
Caudal fin forked.
Ventral ^ in.
finely serrate.
Pectoral j in.
Length of specimen 2^.
D. I-I-I, 12 ; A.
1, 8.
Uniformly grayish on back, head and posterior halfof body ; abdomen yellowish.
DiMIDIATUS.
7. aaa.
Sides entirely naked ; no bony dermal plates ; caudal peduncle not keeled.
Tip of first dorsal spine not reaching second.
Head 3 in length to base of caudal.
Depth 5 in total length.
D. I-I-I-l, 10; A.
1, 7.
Olivaceous brown, darker above ; sides spotted with black ; belly yellowish.
Williamsoxi.
8.
3.
GASTEROSTEUS.
3.
G. aculeatus.
Oastcrosteus in dorso tribus.
Artedi, Gen. Pise, 52, 1738 (Europe); Pennant, Arctic Zool., ii, 385, 1793 (No description).
Oastei'osteus aculeatus Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
X, i, 295, 1758 (after Arttdi); Fabricius, "Fauna Grcenlandica," 169, 1780 (Greenland); Bloch, Syst.
Nat., plate 53, fig.
3 ; Richardson, Fauna Bor.
America, 55, 1836; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only;; Gill, Cat, Fish.
East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 9, 1874 (Bonneville, near Caen) ; Jordan, Cat.
Freshwater Fish.
N, A., 443, 1878 (Name only); Goode & Bean, Fish.
Essex Co. Mass.
Bay, 5, 1879 (Essex Co.); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 77 (Woods Holl, Wilmington, Del.
); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 395, 1883 (East Coast); Stearns, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 123 (Labrador).
Oasterosteus bispinosus Walbaum, Artedi Ichth., 450, 1793 (after Pennant).
Oasterosteus biaculeatus Shaw, Zool., iv, 608, 1839 (after Pennant); Mitchill, Trans.
Lit.
and Phil.
Soc, 430, 1814 (Salt Water at New York); Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 65, plate iii, fig.
8, 1842 (New York); Storer, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 63, 1846; H. R. Storer, Fish.
Labrador, 260, 1849 (Brooks emptying into Gut of Canso); Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only); Putnam, Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., 11, 1863 ; Storer, Hist.
Fish.
Mass., 87, plate viii, fig.
213, 1867.
Oasterosteus noveboraeensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poissons, iv, 502, 1829 (New York); Storer, Rept.
Fish.
Mass., 30, 1839 (Massachusetts); Ayres, Fish.
Brookhaven, Long Island, 259, 1842 (Old Man's Harbor, Storer, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 63, 1846 ; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 11, 1874 (New York, Newfoundland, Boston); Jordan, Man.
Vert., Ed.
i, 250, 1876 (Name only); Goode, Bull, U. S. Nat.
Mus., xiv, 53, 1879 (Name only).
Oasterosteus aculeatus var.
noveboraeensis Giinther, Cat, Fish, Brit.
Mus., i, 4, 1859 (Greenland).
Oasterosteus w/g-e?
* Cuvier, Rogue Animal, 76, 1829 (Based on 6iV/c?<Zea<'/s of >Iitchill); Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poissons, iv, 503, 1829 (Newfoundland); Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 68, 1842 (Newfoundland); Storer, Syn, Fish, N. A., 63, 1846; Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des ' Epinoches, 13, 1874 (Newfoundland); Jordan, Cat.
Fresh "Water Fish.
N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only).
Oasterosteus irachurus Cuvier, RCgne Animal, 76, 1829 (Based in part on Bloch); Storer, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 62, 1846.
Oasterosteus loricatus Reinhardt, Green, Fauna, 37, 1837 (Greenland); Reinhardt, "Kong.
Danske.
Vidensk.
Selsk.
Nat.
Math.
Afh., vii, 114," 1838 ; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 12, 1874 (Newfoundland).
Oasterosteus neoboracensis Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 66, plate vi, fig.
17, 1842 (New York).
Oasterosteus dekayi Ayres, Proc.
Ac.
Nat.
Sci.
Cal.
(based on biaculeatus of Dekay).
Oasterosteus suppositus Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 11, 1884 (after Dekay).
3.
G. aculeatus cataphractus.
aster acanthus catapJiracius 'Psdla.s, ''Mem.
Acad.
Petersb., iii, 825," 1811.
Oasterosteus cataphractus Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
1881, 239 (Kodiak, Cook's Inlet, Sitka, Port Mulgrave, Shumagins, Unalaska, Amchitka, Kyska Harbor, St. Paul, Bering Sea near Bering Isl.
); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 270 (Pacific South of Bering Strait, Puget Sound, San Francisco); Stejneger, Proc.
U.
8.
Nat.
Mus., 1883, 65 (Commander Island); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1888, 353 (Duncan's Bay, Brit.
Col.); Bean, Cat.
Fish, in Internat.
Fish.
Exhib.
London, 19, 1883 (St. Paul Isl.).
Oasterosteus aculeatus var.
cataphractus Jordan & Jouy, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 1 (Puget Sound); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 69 (San Francisco to Alaska).
Oasterosteus aculeatus subsp.
cataphractus Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 396, 1883 (West Coast).
Oasterosteus obolarius Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poissons, iv, 500, 1829 (Kamtschatka) ; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 12, 1874 (Name only).
Oasterosteus inseulptus Richardson, Last Arctic Voy., 10, plate xxv, fig.
1, 2, 3, 1854 (Northumberland and Puget Sound); Bean, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XV, 129, 1879 (Northumberland Sound).
Oasterosteus serratus Ayres, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1855, 47 (San Francisco); Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 88, 1859 (Shoal Water Bay: San Francisco); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 13, 1874 (San Francisco Bay); Jordan, Cat.
Fresh Water Fish.
N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U.S. Nat.
Mus.
1880, 452 (Puget Sound, San Francisco) ; Jordan & Jouy, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 1 (Foot note).
Gasterostetis intermedius Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1856, 135 ; Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 89, 1859 (Cape Flattery); Jordan, Cat.
Fresh-water Fish N. A., 443, 1878 (Name only).
Habitat Northern Atlantic Coast of both Continents.
Yar.
caiaphractus is found on the West Coast of North America, from San Francisco to Alaska and Kamtschatka.
This species differs from the others in having the whole sides covered with (28-30) bony plates.
The hiaculeatus of Mitchill possesses the (33) plates characizing the aculeatus and otherwise agrees with the latter; the slight variation in the number of lateral plates may perhaps arise from a different manner of counting them.
The bispinosus of Walbaum and biaculeatus of Shaw are alike based on Pennant.
The description given by the latter author is of very little importance, but the probabilities all favor that the species he had in mind was Gasterosteus aculeatus.
The 7ioveboracensis of Cuvier and Valenciennes is said to differ from aculeatus in the position of the lateral line and in the stronger caudal keel.
Neither of these features is likely to be of specific value, and I therefore place it in the synonymy of aculeatus.
The niger of Cuvier is based on the biaculeatus of Mitchill, which is aculeatus.
The trachurus of the same author has the sides completely covered with plates, and is, of course, the ordinary European form of aculeatus.
The suppositus of Sauvage is a supposed new species described by Deka}'^ as neoboracensis, but the neoboracensis of Dekay is identical with the noveboracensis of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and suppositus is therefore a synonym of aculeatus.
The figure of Dekay has lateral plates extending from the post-pectoral plate to the caudal, but as this differs from the nature of the armature of this group, and as Dekay does not mention the naked area about the ventral region and gives the number of the plates as 30 to 33, these discrepancies must be due to a mistake of the artist.
The Gasterosteus texanus of Sauvage is somewhat different.
It has eleven plates extending to the second ray of the soft dorsal ; thence to the last ray, the body is naked, the peduncle being again mailed and strongly keeled.
As no sticklebacks are found much south of the Great Lake region, it is very probable that the type of G. texanus did not come from Texas.
At present I place texanus in the synonymy of aculeatus, the peculiarities above mentioned being perhaps due to mutilation.
The many specimens examined by me are from Wilmington, Delaware, and from Woods Holl, Massachusetts.
The var.
cataphractus differs from aculeatus in its deeper and shorter form.
Northern specimens are larger and more robust than those found further south, and it is not likely that with a large series any tangible permanent differences could be maintained.
The names cataphractus and obolarius were given to Alaskan specimens ; the insculptus from the Arctic is not essentially different, and the serratus of Ayres and intermedius of Girard, from further south, are also certainly the same.
The large collections made by Jordan and Gilbert of the West Coast of the U. S., show conclusively that not more than two distinct forms of Sticklebacks, cataphractus and microcephalus, exist on that coast.
4.
Gasterosteus atkinsii.
Gasterosteus atkinsii Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 67 (Schoodic Lakes); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fisli.
N. A., 395, 1883 (Copied).
Habitat.
Schoodic Lakes, Maine.
This species is characterized by the presence of 15 lateral plates ; it is therefore intermediate between the full armed aculeatus and the partly mailed gymnurus, etc.
The species is known to me from the description of Bean (loc.
cit.).
This description indicates some affinity with the European Gasterosteus semiarmatus, which has also 14 (12 to 15) plates.
5.
Gasterosteus microcephalus.
Oasterosteus microcephalus Girard, Proc.
Ac.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1854, 133; Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 91, 1859 (Tidare Valley); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 23, 1874 (Tulare Valley); Joi"dan, Cat.
Fresh-water Fish N. A., 443, 1878 ^Name only); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas., 1880, 453 (Puget Sound ; San Francisco ; ]\Ionterey Bay ; San Pedro); Jordan & Jouy, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 1 (San Francisco); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 69 (Los Angeles to Puget Sound); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 240 (Piseco Lake, Sitka; St. Paul, Kodiak; Chirikoff Isl.
; Iliuliuk Unalaska); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 370 (Pacific, south of Bering Strait; Puget Sound; San Francisco); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 395, 1882 ; Rosa Smith, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 217 (Name only); Rosa Smith, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 333 (Todos Santos Bay); Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 353 (Mountain Lake, Alaska); Bean, Cat.
Fish, in Internat.
Fish.
Ex.
London, 19, 1883 (St. Paul, Kodiak).
Giisterosteus plebeins Giranl, "Proc.
Ao.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1854, 147;" Girarrl, Pacific R. R. Survey, 86, 1859 (San Francisco ; San Jose ; Petaluma) ; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 18, 1874 (Petaluma) ; Jordan, Cat.
Fresh-water Fish.
N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only).
Gasterosiei/x inopinatus Girard, " Proc.
Ac.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1854, 147;" Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 90, 1859 ^Presidio); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 19, plate i, fig.
4, 1874 (Presidio Creek, Cal.j; Jordan, Cat.
Fresh-water Fish N. A., 443, 1878 (Name only).
Gasterosteus pugetti Girard, "Proc.
Ac.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1856, 135;" Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 92 and 354, 1859 (Puget Sound); Jordan, Cat.
Fresh-water Fish N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only).
Habitat.
Pacific Coast North America, from Bering Strait south to Todos Santos Bay.
Ascends rivers.
This species differs from dimidiatus in having no cusp at base of ventrals and no caudal keel ; it differs from wheatlandi in haA'ing all its bones much weaker and in the arrangement of the mucous lucres about the head.
The collection of Jordan and Gilbert shows that all nakedtailed Sticklebacks {microcephalus, plebeius, inopinatus and pugetti) belong to one species.
It is possible, as several writers have affirmed, that all these naked-tailed Sticklebacks {gymnurus, mici^ocephalus, ivheatlandi, williamsoni) are simple varieties of the ordinary G. acideatus.
It seems to me that the peculiarities of the Californian form are so constant that we may regard this one at least as presenting a distinct species.
Of G. wheatlandi and gymnurus I am not so certain, but I have not yet seen any distinctly intermediate forms, although all these types, like all other Sticklebacks, are subject to much individual variation.
The characters given in the analysis above are to be regarded as simply provisional, as representing the differences shown by the material at my disposal.
The specimens examined by me are from San Diego, Cal.
6.
Gasterosteus wheatlandi.
Gasterosteus wheatlandi Putnam, "Proc.
Essex Inst., v. 4, 1867;" Storer, Hist.
Fish.
Mass., 354, 1867 (Nahant).
Gasterosteus trachurus Goode & Bean, Fishes of Essex Co. and Mass.
Bay, 5, 1879 (Nahant, not G. trachurus of G\i\\er).
Habitat.
East Coast United States, northward.
This species difiers from G. microcephalus in having stronger surface bones, no mucous pores about the head, and the caudal peduncle compressed.
The specimens examined by me are from the coast of Massachusetts.
7.
Gasterosteus dimidiatus.
Gasterosteus biaculeatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat Poissons, iv, 503, 1829 (Newfoundland, not O. biaculeatus of Shaw); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mas., i, 5.
1859 (Coast Newfoundland and Labrador); Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 21, 1874 (Newfoundland); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only); Jordan & Gilbert, 8yn.
Fish.
N. A., 395, 1883 ; Stearns, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 123 (Labrador).
Gasterosteus dimidiatus Reinhardt, Green.
Faun.
37, 1837 (Greenland); Reinhardt, "Kong.
Dansk.
Vidensk.
Selsk.
Nat.
og.
Math.
Afhand.
vii, 193," 1838; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 28, 1874 (Name only).
Gasterosteus aculeatus var.
dimidiatus Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 39, 18G1 (Name only).
Gasterosteus cimeri (Girard MSS.)
Storer, H. R. Fish.
Nova Scotia and Labradoi-, 254, plate vii, fig.
1, 1849 (Bras d'Or, Red Bay).
Habitat East Coast North America, northward.
This species differs from its nearest relations in having a cusi^ at the base of the ventrals and a fleshy caudal carina.
The name biaculeatus cannot be retained for this species, as it was originally based on a description of Pennant which apparently refers to G. aculeatus.
I have examined no specimens of this species, and I am not sure that it diffei'S in any important respect from the naked tailed sticklebacks (G. gi/mnurus Cuvier = G. leiurus Cuv.
and Yal.)
of Europe.
8.
Gasterosteus williamsoni.
Gasterosteus williatnsoni Girard, "Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 133," 1854 (Williamson Pass); Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 93, 1859 (Williamson Pass); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 25, 1874; Jordan, Cat.
Fresh Water Fish.
N. A., 441, 1878 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 393, 1883; Rosa Smith, Proc.U.
S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 217 (Artesian well at San Bernardino).
Eucalia williamsoni Jordan & Copeland, Checklist Fresh Water Fish.
N. A., 141, 1876.
Habitat.
Streams of California.
This species differs from the other species of this genus in having no lateral plates.
Miss Rosa Smith records one from an artesian well in California and pronounces it a true Gasterosteus and not a Eucalia.
The species is known to me from Girard 's description in the Pacific R. R. Survey, and from the account given by Miss Smith.
4.
APELTES.
Apdten Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 67, 1842 (quadracus no description).
Apelte$ .Jordan, Man.
Vert., 249, 1876 (Characterized).
This geuus is distinguished by the form and position of the innominate bones, these being separated and forming subdermal spines on the outer edges of the abdomen.
The pubic bones are small and weak, not visible on surface.
It is a more sharply defined group than Eucalia or Pygosleus and its single species has shown no important variation.
Analysis of Species of Apeltes.
a. Trunk oblong ; head pointed ; caudal peduncle slender, not keeled.
Mouth small, horizontal ; maxillary not reaching to eye ; teeth slender, in a single series.
No bon}^ dermal plates along sides.
Scapula forming a small granulated postopercular plate.
Innominate bones wide apart ; the area between them flat so that a section of the fish is triangular.
Gill membrane broadly united to the isthmus.
Free dorsal spines divergent.
The spines slender, pointed, slightly serrate.
Distance between first and third spine much less than that between third and fourth ; the first extending beyond base of third.
Caudal long, narrow ; anal similar to soft dorsal and coterminous with it ; its spine under third ray of dorsal.
Ventral spines strong, subterete ; serrate on both edges and covered by skin to near tip.
When ventral spines are set they point almost sidewise, when depressed they lie along inside of innominate bones.
Quadracus.
9.
9.
Apeltes quadracus.
Gasterosfeus quadracm Mitchill, Trans.
Lit.
and Phil.
Soc, i, 430, 1814 ; Cuvier & Valenciennes, iv, 504.
1829 (Newfoundland) ; Storer, Rept.
Fishes Mass., 31, 1839 (Salem); Dekay, Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 67, plate vi, fig.
18, 1843 (New York); Storer, Syn., 63, 1846 ; Baird, Fish, of N. Jersey Coast, 14, 1855 (Salt Ponds of New .Jersey); Storer, "Mem.
Am.
Ac.
New Series, ii, 315 ;" Storer, Fish.
Mass., 89, plate viii, fig.
4, 1867 (Massachusetts); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 7, 1859 (copied); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 27, 1874 (copied).
Apeltes quadracus Putnam, " Proc.
Essex lust., 1855, 148," Brevoort in Gill's Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 89, 1861 (Name only); Gill, Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Jordan, Man.
Vert.
Ed., i, 249, 1876 (copied); Jordan & Copeland, Checklist Fresh Water Fish.
N. A., 141, 1876 (East Coast); Jordan, Cat.
Frtsh Water Fish.
N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only); Goode & Bean, Fish.
Essex Co. and Mass.
Bay, 5, 1879 (Salem and vicinity); Goode, Bull, U. S. Nat.
Mus., xiv, 54, 1879 (Name only); Goode, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., xxi, 31, 1880 (Name only); Bean.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1880, 77 (Woods HoU, Noank); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 396, 1883.
Oasterosteus apeltcs Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
des Poiss., iv, 505, 1829 (No locality); Storer, Kept.
Fish.
Mass., 31, 1839 (Salem); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 26, plate i, fig.
13, 1874 (New York).
Oasterosteus millepunctatus Ayres, Boston Journ.
Nat.
Hist., 259 and 294, 1842 (Old Man's Harbor); Brevoort in Gill's Cat.
Fish., East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 27, 1874 (copied).
Habitat.
Atlantic Coast of North America ; Northward.
This species is easily distinguished by the separation of the innominate bones and by the four divergent dorsal spines.
The apeltes of Cuvier and "Valenciennes does not differ from the quadracus of Mitchill.
The millipunctatus of Ayres is also identical with the quadracus of Mitchill.
The numerous specimens examined by me are from Woods Holl, Massachusetts.
5.
SPINACHIA.
Spinachia Fleming, "Hist.
Brit.
Animals, 219," 1828 (spinachia).
Polyeanthus Swainson, Fishes 175 and 242, 1839 {spinachia).
Oastrcea Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 7, 1876 {spinachia).
This genus differs from the others in the prolongation of the snout which approaches in form the snout of Aulorhynchus and Fistularia.
The innominate bones are as in Apeltes ; there are about 15 free dorsal spines.
Analysis of the Species of Spinachia.
a. Snout prolonged ; dorsal spines about 15; dermal plates, 40 ; depth 10 in length ; head about 4 ; a carina running entire length of lateral line ; body five-sided ; tail four-sided.
Vertebra 18 + 23 ; D. XV, 6 or 7 ; ventral, i, 2 ; A. I, 6 or 7.
Spinachia.
10.
10.
Spinachia spinachia, Crtisterosteus spinacJiia Linnseus, Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
X., 296, 1758 (based on Artedi) (and of authors generally).
Oastraa spinachia Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 36, 1876 (Newfoundland).
Habitat.
North Atlantic on both continents.
This species has been but once ascribed to America.
Sauvage notes a specimen in the Museum at Paris which he said to be 17 250 [1886. from Newfoundland.
This record needs verification, and is probably the result of an error in labeling.
Comparative Measurements in Hundreds of Length to Base OF Caudal.
Depth of Body Caudal Peduncle, .
.
.
.
Length of Head, Interorbital space, Snout, Operculum, .
. '
Orbit, First Dorsal Spine from Snout,.
Height, Antecedent Spine, First ray, Last ray, Anal from Snout, Height of Spine First ray, Last ray, ........ Caudal, Pectoral from Snout, .
.
.
.
Length, Ventral from Snout, .
.
.
Length, ....'.... Innominate bones 17 18 25 4 8 27 6 30 c eft c o o3 be 22 23 24 16 16 12 29 27 29 4-5 5 5 7 10 8 8 9 7 32 29 36 6 4 9 7 6 11 11 13 3 2 58 59 72 7 7 2 13 13 12 3 1 13 15 middlel2 extern 16 80 31 36 11 11 20 40 41 43 9 7 14 12 5 17 o o 30 10 34 8 42 15 17 39 15 44 14 26 14 32 7 11 9 40 9 3 14 70 2 12 15 17 3S 17 45 13 O a s 32 20 25 7 30 11 58 8 16 29 17 33 16 List of Nominal Species of Gasterosteid^, Arranged in Chronological Order, with Identification.
(Tenable Specific Names are In Italics.)
Nominal Species.
Date, Gasterosteus aculeatus Linnaeus, 1758, Ga.&teTOstevLS pun(/itius Linnaeus, 1758, Gasterosteus spinachia Linnseus, 1758, Gasterosteus pungitius Walbaum, 1792, Gasterosteus bispinosus Walbaum, 1792, Gasterosteus cataphracius Pallas, 1811, Identification.
Gastrosteus aculeatus.
Pygostens pungitius.
Spinachia spinachia.
Pygosteus pungitius.
Gasterosteus aculeatus.
Gasterosteus cataphractus.
1886.]
251 Nominal Species.
Date.
Gasterosteus quadracus Mitchill, 1814, Gasterosteus niger Cuvier, 1829, Gasterosteus trachurus Cuvier, 1829, Gasterosteus obolarius Guv.
& Val., 1829, Gasterosteus noveboracensisCuv.
& Val., 1829, Gasterosteus biaculeatus Cuv.
& Val.
1829, Gasterosteus apeltes Cuv.
& Val.
1829, Gasterosteus occidentalis Cuv.
& Val.
1829, Gasterosteus coucinnus Richardson, 1836, Gasterosteus mainensis Storer, 1837, Gasterosteus loricatus Reinhardt, 1837, Gasterosteus dimitiatus Reinhardt, 1837, Gasterosteus biaculeatus Shaw, 1839, Gasterosteus t/ico/istens Kirtland, 1841, Gasterosteus millepunctatus Ay res, 1842, Gasterosteus cuvieri Girard, 1849, Gasterosteus nebulosus Agassiz, 1850, Gasterosteus de kayi Agassiz, 1850, Gasterosteus ^j^grmcEWs Agassiz, 1850, Gasterosteus insculptus Richardson, 1854, Gasterosteus mierocephalus Girard, 1 854, Gasterosteus williamsoni Girard, 1854, Gasterosteus plebeius Girard, 1854, Gasterosteus inopinatus Girard, 1854, Gasterosteus serratus Ayres, 1855, Gasterosteus intermedins Girard, 1856, Gasterosteus pugetti Girard, 1856, Gasterosteus atkinsii Bean, 1859, Gasterosteus micropus Cope, 1865, Gasterosteus wheatlandi Putnam, 1867, Gasterosteus suppositus Sauvage, 1874, Gasterostea blanchardi Sauvage, 1874, Gasterosteus globiceps Sauvage, 1874, Eucalia cayuga Jordan, 1876, Gasterosteus trachurus Goode & Bean, 1879, Gasterosteus hrachypoda Bean, 1879, Identification.
Apeltes quadracus.
Gasterosteus aculeatus.
Gasterosteus aculeatus.
Gasterosteus cataphractus.
Gasterosteus aculeatus.
Gasterosteus dimidiatus.
Apeltes quadracus.
Pygosteus pungitius.
Pygosteus pungitius.
Pygosteus pungitius.
Gasterosteus aculeatus.
Gasterosteus dimidiatus.
Gasterosteus aculeatus, Eucalia inconstans.
Apeltes quadracus.
Gasterosteus dimidiatus.
Pygosteus ijungitius.
Pygosteus pungitius.
Eucalia inconstans.
Gasterosteus cataphractus.
Gasterosteus mierocephalus.
Gasterosteus vs^illiamsoni.
Gasterosteus mierocephalus.
Gasterosteus mierocephalus.
Gasterosteus cataphractus.
Gasterosteus cataphractus.
Gasterosteus microcei)halus.
Gasterosteus atkinsii.
Eucalia inconstans.
Gasterosteus wheatlandi.
Gasterosteus aculeatus.
Pygosteus pungitius.
Eucalia inconstans.
Eucalia cayuga.
Gasterosteus wheatlandi, Pygosteus brachypoda.
Recapitulation.
In this review I have admitted 10 species and 5 genera of Gasterosteidae as valid.
Below I give a list of the species.
The general distribution of the species is indicated by the letters A.
(America); E, (Europe); W. (West Coast of North America); P. (East Coast North America and Greenland); G. (Great Lake Region and Northward); U.
(Western Slope of Rocky Mountains;, 252 proceedings op the academy of [1886.
Family GASTEROSTEIDJE.
Genus 1.
PYGOSTEUS Brevoort.
1.
Pygosteus pungitius Linnaeus (E.
A.
)fP.
Gr.).
1 a. Pygosteus pungitius brachypoda (W.
U.).
(Unknown to me).
Genus 2.
ETJCALIA Jordan.
2.
Eucalia inconstans Kirtland (G. E).
2 a, Eucalia inconstans cayuga Jordan (G.).
(Variety of doubtful value).
2 b. Eucalia inconstans pygmma Agassiz (Unknown to me ; characters assigned perhaps erroneous).
Genus 3.
GASTEROSTETIS Liuuwus.
3.
Gasterosteus aculeatus (E.
A.)
(P.).
3 a. Gasterosteus aculeatus cataphractus Pallas (W.).
(Variety of doubtful value).
4.
Gasterosteus atkinsti Bean (P.).
(Unknown to me ; perhaps local var.
of aculeatus).
5.
Gasterosteus microcepJialus Girard (W.).
(Possibly variety of acZea^ws).
6.
Gasterosteus wheatlandl Putnam (P.).
(Perhaps var.
of aculeatus).
7.
Gasterosteus dimidiatus Reinhardt (P.).
(Unknown to me ; perhaps identical with G, gymnurus).
8.
Gasterosteus williamsoni Girard (U.).
(Possibly an extreme vai'iety of microcephalus or aculeatus).
Genus 4.
APELTES DeKay.
9.
Apeltes quadracus Mitchill (P.).
Genus 3.
SPINACHIA Fleming.
10.
SpinacMa spinachialAvinddVis, (E. P.).
(Probably not American).
1886.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
253 May 4.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair.
Twenty-pight persons present.
The Railway Gutting at Graifs Ferry Road.
Mr. Aubrey H. Smith remarked that the Schuylkill River, as is well known, makes a curve to the westward just below the TJ.
S. Arsenal grounds, returning to its southwardly course at Harmar's wharf, nearly a mile below.
The new iron bridge of the Baltimore and Ohio R. R. Co. spans the river obliquely from the northern side of Bartram's Garden to Harmar's at the height of about 23 feet above tide.
The tract of land half enclosed by the river is elevated about 50 feet above tide and is composed of the same diluvial gravels and clays which form the plain on which stands the old city of Philadelphia.
The railroad proceeds from the bridge by a deep cut of half a mile transversely to the streets on the city plan northeastwardly to the low grounds on the river below the arsenal, thus forming a chord to the arc of the river bend.
The cut is a deep one, as the railroad company was required by its agreement with the city to construct its line beneath Wharton Street and the Gray's Ferry Road.
Soon after leaving the bridge the cutting enters the plateau and is soon twenty-five or more feet deep.
The excavation is through yellow cla3'^s and river gravels to the depth of about twenty -five feet.
It then discloses a compact bed of dark blue clay, sharply defined under the gravel, apparently a river deposit.
Its thickness is not exactly known but it exceeds six feet.
This bed of blue clay extends from just bej'ond the Harmar house to the Gray's Ferry Road, a distance of 500 or 600 yards.
It is apparently thickest near the Harmar house, but thins out at the Gray's Ferry Road, where the excavations show it to be only about four feet thick and to rest uj^on a bed of yellow gravel or sand.
It does not appear at all northeast of the Gray's Ferry Road.
Some observations and inquiry in November, 1885, for organic remains resulted, so far as he was aware, only in showing that the blue clay contains numerous genera and species of diatoms and several species of recent woods.
The observations on the diatoms are due to Professor Koenig.
The gravels and cla3^s above the blue clay were barren of all organic forms.
The woods then obtained were apparently birch, maple or oak, and were neither mineralized or decomposed.
They came from the dump heap where the excavated clay was deposited by the workmen, but are doubtless from the blue clay bed.
254 [1886.
The specimen of wood exhibited to the Academy to-night is of some coniferous tree, probably a white cedar, Gupressus thyoides.
This tree, until verj^ I'ccently, was common along the Schuylkill and Delaware, and isolated specimens may still exist there.
The wood now shown is in no degree mineralized and but slightly decomposed.
It came from a log which lies in the blue clay just north of the Wharton Street Bridge and is still to be seen there.
No shells, so far as he knew, have been found in the excavation, but more careful search in this direction might be rewarded.
The blue clay bed appears to mark one of the periods of quiescence in the glacial action which, in its torrential course, scooped out the valleys of the Schuylkill and Delaware and afterwards filled them up again at the margin of tide-water.
It harmonizes itself with similar beds which have been observed at several points along the shores of the rivers notably at the Lazaretto and Printz Hall, Tinicum, and near Camden, N. J.
There were probably several of these periods of comparative rest in the course of the retirement of the ice from northern Pennsylvania.
The artesian well of Mr. Black, at Black's Island, below Fort Mifflin, which is 456 feet deep, disclosed at the depth of 100 feet a bed of white beach sand 47 feet in thickness, as well as many of gravel and clay.
The decomposed gneiss rock was reached at the depth of 240 feet or thereabouts.
Section of the strata of Black's Island, Delaware River below Fort Mifflin, from the artesian well of E. N. Black, Esq.
: Blue alluvium, .
Sand, .... Blue alluvium, .
Gravel, .... White clay, Beach sand, Gravel, .... Clay, .... Red gravel, White gravel and sand, Beach sand and gravel, Decomposed gneiss (mica), Gneiss rock, 45] fee 1 3;^ 6 2 47 10 3 6 17 38 20 228 456 feet.
May 11.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty -two persons present.
Fatal Gases of Trichiniasis.
The President read a letter from Mr. Eugene A. Rah, of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, giving an account of recent cases of fatal trichiniasis arising from imperfectly cooked, measly pork, which had been eaten for a week from January 6, 1886.
The family consisted of a man and wife and two daughters, aged respectively five and thirteen years.
The older daughter and the mother, aged 37 years, have died ; the other members of the family, although affected, are recovering.
In the mother, who died March 8, the deltoid muscle showed, under the microscope, three to nine ; the rectus femoris, two to six, and the diaphragm, one to three trichinae, in a field view about one-fifth of an inch in diameter.
In the daughter, who died February 19, trichina?
were found imbedded in the deltoid muscle, in some portions as many as forty-two being counted on the field of view under the microscope.
No other portions of the daughter were examined, but the lungs, heart, liver, spleen and kidnej^s of the mother were found to be unaffected.
The pork used was home-raised, and, according to the owner, the animal did not at any time show signs of ill health.
An examination of two other hogs raised on the premises was made, but no trichinae were found.
As usual in such cases, the meat was imperfectly cooked or fried, the tenderloin, sausage meat, spare ribs, etc., all being freely used.
For several days while in water the human trichinae showed signs of life, coiling and uncoiling when freed from the muscular fibre, but the stage of development found in the pork showed no activity under the same conditions.
The communication is accompanied by excellent photographs of portions of human muscle and of the affected pork, showing a number of the worms imbedded in the tissue.
May 18.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
May 25.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
Charles P. Sherman was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed : A REVISION OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS GERRES.
BY BARTON W, EVERMANN AND SETH E. MEEK.
In the summer of 1883 we published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, pp.
116 to 124, a *' Review of the Species of Gerres found in American Waters."
In December of the same year, Dr. Jordan made a large collection of the Atlantic species of this genus at Cedar Keys, Key West and Havana.
A large portion of this collection is now in the Museum of the Indiana University, and constitutes the material upon which the present paper is based.
The present collections contain numerous specimens of species not before examined by us, and, in the light of the new relationships which an examination of them discloses, we have thought it best to attempt an entire revision of the genus.
We have therefore collected all the synonymy up to date, made an analytical key by which the species can be determined, and given a detailed description of all the species now before us.
To the account of the Pacific Coast species, as given in the former paper, we have now nothing to add, as the very extensive collection of them studied by us has been since mostly destroj^ed by fire.
We take this opportunity of acknowledging our indebtedness to Dr. Jordan for the use of his library, and for other aids.
Genus GERRES Cuvier.
Oerrcs Cuvier.
Regne Animal, ed.
2, ii, 104, 1829 (r/iombeus, etc.).
Catoclmnum Cantor.
Cat.
Malayan Fishes, 55, 1850.
(Proposed for Oerres Cuv., regarded by Cantor as preoccupied by Qerris Fabricius).
Diapterus UauzsLni.
Nov.
Comment.
Acad.
Bonom., 1841 {plumieri, etc.).
Eucinostomus Baird and Girard.
Ninth Smithsonian Report, 1855, 20 (argenteus = gula).
Synistius Gill.
Pioc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, 238 (longirostris).
Mojarra Poey.
Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 50, 1875 {rhombea = olistJiostoma).
Analysis of Species of Gerres.
a. Preorbital and preopercle entire ; body elongate, the depth 2^ to 4 in length to base of caudal (Eucinostomus Baird and Girard).
6.
Premaxillary groove naked.
c. Anal rays II, 8 ; body very elongate, its depth 3f in its length ; eye 2f in head.
Lefroyi.
1. cc.
Anal rays III, 7. d. Premaxillary groove narrow, linear.
e. Eye very large, its diameter much greater than length of snout, 2 in length of head.
Exposed portion of maxillary small, triangular.
Dowi.
2. ee.
Eye small, more than 3 in head, its diameter about equal to length of snout.
Exposed portion of maxillary triangular in front, oblong behind.
/.
Body elongate, the back little elevated ; greatest depth 3j to 3^ in length.
Anal spines small, the second 4^ in length of head.
Pseudogula.
3. ff.
Bod}' more compressed, deeper, the back more elevated ; greatest depth 2f in length.
Anal spines larger, the second 3^ in length of head.
Gracilis.
4. dd.
Premaxillary groove broad, oval, naked.
Body elevated, compressed, its greatest depth 2| in its length.
g. Caudal fin shorter than head, sides without dark vertical bars.
Second anal spine short, 3 to 4 in head ; ventrals short, little more than half the length of head, their tips not reaching vent; dark punctulations on body few or none ; upper part of spinous dorsal becoming gi-adually blackish ; other fins nearly plain ; axil faintly dusky.
Californiensis.
5. gg.
Caudal fin longer than head.
Sides with 7 to 9 dark bluish vertical bars, about as broad as pupil.
Anal spines longer, the second 2f in length of head.
Ventrals longer, 1| in length of head, scarcel}' reaching vent.
Ginereus.
6. bb.
Premaxillary groove scaled in front, forming a naked pit behind.
Depth 2| in length ; head 3 to B^ in length of body.
Second anal spine about 3^ in head.
Gula.
7. aa.
Preopercle distinctly entire.
h. Preorbital entire ; body without distinct dark streaks along the rows of scales.
{Moharra Poej'-).
i. Premaxillary groove broad, triangular or oval, and free from scales.
j.
Body ovate, the outline somewhat regularly elliptical, depth 2^ in length.
Dorsal spines slender, but little flexible, the second scarcely stronger than the third, 2 in length of head.
Second and third anal spines subequal, 2 1 in length of head ; second stronger than third.
Aureolus.
8. jj.
Body rhomboidal, short and deep, with angular outlines, the depth usually more than half the length ; spines long and slender.
k. Anal rays III, 8 ; second dorsal spine | or more length ol head ; second anal spine more than half length of head Peruvianus.
9. kh.
Anal rays II, 9 ; second dorsal spine about length of head ; second anal spine If in length of head.
Bhombeus.
10. ii.
Premaxillary groove broad, oval, and covered with scales (these sometimes deciduous in poorly preserved specimens).
Anal rays III, 8 ; second dorsal spine 1;^ in head ; second anal spine If in head ; teeth rather long and slender.
OUsthostoma.
11. hh.
Preorbital serrate, a distinct dark streak along each row of scales on back and sides ; body rhomboidal, with angular outlines; spines very strong; anal ra3'S III, 8 or 9.
(Gerres).
I. Yentrals blackish ; upper margin of dorsal fin falcate ; depth 2^ in length ; scales 5-38-9.
Brasilianus.
12.
II.
Yentrals pale.
m. Spines moderate, the second dorsal spine f to | length of head.
n. Pectorals long, reaching to front of anal ; caudal longer than head ; lateral stripes numerous ; depth nearly 2 in length.
Lineatus.
13. nn.
Pectorals short, barely reaching vent ; caudal shorter than head ; lateral stripes few ; depth about 2| in lenoth.
Brevimanus.
14. mm.
Spines very high, the second dorsal spine longer than head ; second anal spine about equal to length of head ; lateral stripes very distinct, about 12 in number; depth of body 2^ in length.
Flumieri.
15.
1.
Gerres lefroyi.
Diapterus lefroyi Goode, Amer.
Jour.
Sci.
and Arts, 123, 1874 ; Goode, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1876, 39 (Bermudas).
Oerres lefroyi Giinther, Voyage Challenger, Fishes, 10, 1880 (name only); Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 118; Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan and Swain, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 233 (Cedar Keys); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1883, 95.
Eurinostomus productus Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 55, 1875 (Havana); Poey, Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y., 1876 (Havana).
Habitat.
Atlantic coast of tropical America ; West Indies; Bermudas; Cedar Keys; Key West ; Havana.
The specimens examined by us are from Havana (8 specimens), Key West "(5 specimens), and Cedar Keys (1 specimen).
In size they range from 2 to 8^ inches in length.
Head 3^ to 3^; depth 3|; scales 5-47-9.
D. IX, 10.
A. II, 8.
Body elongate, elliptical, not very strongly compressed ; back little elevated; snout conical, not much pointed; mouth small, end of maxillary I'eaching scarcely beyond vertical from anterior margin of orbit, its length 3 in length of head, exposed portion nearly triangular, its greatest width 2 in its length, which is 5 in length of head.
Top of head flattish.
Premaxillary groove long, linear and naked.
Eye large, 2f in head ; snout 3^ in head, interorbital area 3 in head.
Gill-rakers weak, small, 7 or 8 below the angle.
Dorsal spines all weak and flexible, second and third subequal, 5^ in length of head ; upper margin of the fin concave.
Second anal spine moderate, its length 4 in head.
Least depth of caudal peduncle 3| in length of head.
Color silvery, darker above, everj'where with fine dusky punctulations and traces of crossbars.
Top of spinous dorsal black, dorsal, anal, and caudal dusky.
Yentrals and pectorals paler, but with dusky punctulations ; axil dusky ; a dark spot on supraorbital ; snout dusky ; no distinct stripes along rows of scales.
In form, size and color, this species resembles G. doivi, but is readil}' distinguished from the latter by the presence of two anal spines instead of three.
This character is apparently a constant one, observed in many specimens.
2.
Gerres dowi.
Diapterus dowi Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 162 (Panama).
Genes doici Giinther, Fish.
Ceutr.
Amer., 448, 1866 (Description taken from Gill); Steiudachner, Ichth.
Beitriige, iv, 13, 1875 (No description), (Callao, Peru; Galapagos Islands); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 111 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 377 (Panama); Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 120 (Panama).
Gerres aprion Giinther, Fish, Centr.
Amer., 391, 1866 (Name only) (Panama).
Habitat.
Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America ; Galapagos Islands, Peru; Panama; Havana; Key "West.
The specimens examined b^^ us are from Havana (2 specimens, 5| and 6 inches in length), and Kej' West (5 specimens, 3 to 6 inches in length).
Head 3f ; depth 3 ; scales 5-45-10.
Bodjrather slender, compressed, elliptical, back littie elevated, head flat, with a slight depression above front of orbit.
Maxillary triangular and small, the width at posterior end being ^ the length, which is about ^ diameter of e3^e, also ^ length of second dorsal spine.
Preorbital and preopercle entire.
Eye large, 2| in head ; snout 3|-, and interorbital, 3^ in head.
Second and third dorsal spines about equal, the third perhaps slightly longest, 1^ in head, all weak and flexible.
Second anal spine relatively strong, third weaker but slightly longer, 2| in head; base of anal 1| to 2^ in length of head.
Least depth of caudal peduncle 2 in head.
Pectorals about | length of head, their tips reaching vent.
Yentrals If in head, reaching about | distance to vent.
Premaxillar3^ groove narrow, linear and naked, and not extending quite to the vertical of centre of pupil.
Color silvery with bluish reflections, darker above lateral line.
Tips of spinous dorsal black, ventrals dusky (lighter in Key West specimens) ; a black supraorbital spot, caudal dusky, body covered with very fine dark pimctulations.
This species has not been hitherto recorded from the Atlantic.
.".
Gerres pseudogula.
Eucinostomus pseudogtda Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 53, pi.
i, 1875 (Havana).
Gerres jonesi Giinther, Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., iii, 1879, 150, 389 (Bermudas) ; Giinther, Voyage Challenger, Fishes, i, 10, 1880 (Bermudas) ; Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 120 (Bermudas); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Habitat.
West Indies ; Bermudas ; Cuba.
We have examined eight specimens of this species, all from Havana.
They range from 2f to 7 inches in length.
Head 3^ to 3^ ; depth S^ ; scales 5-49-9 ; D. IX-10; A. III-T.
Body elongate, elliptical, not mucli compressed; back little elevated ; profile evenly convex ; top of* head little convex ; mouth rather small, end of maxillar}' reaching slightly past vertical from front of orbit ; length of maxillary 3^ in length of head, its exposed portion nearly triangular and about i length of head, its greatest width ^ its greatest length.
Preorbital and preopercle entire.
Snout not much pointed, conical ; cheeks each with three rows of scales ; seven gill-rakers below the angle.
E3'^e 3^ in head, snout 3;^ in head ; interorbital area 3| in head.
Dorsal spines all weak and flexible.
Second and third dorsal spines subequal, 1^ in length of head.
Base of anal 2 in length of head, spines small, the second the stronger, its length 4^ in length of head, about equal in length to third spine or slightly the shorter.
Least depth of caudal peduncle 3 in length of head.
Tips of pectoral fins reaching vent, their length about 3| in length of body.
Ventrals 1^ in head, their tips reaching | distance to vent.
Premaxillary grooves long, linear and free from scales.
Color greenish above, with bluish reflections, silvery below ; snout blackish ; tips of spinous dorsal black ; pectorals pale, dusky in axil.
Yentrals and anal pale.
Caudal reddish.
This species has been sometimes confounded with Gerres gracilis.
It can easily be distinguished from the latter b}' its more elongate form and its comparatively small anal spines.
There seems to be no room for doubt of the identity of G. jonesi \<[ii\i G. pseudogula.
4.
Gerres gracilis.
Biapterus gracilis Gill, Pioc, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1863, 246 (Cape San Lucas).
Gerres gracilis Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 374 (Guaymas); Jordon & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 (Guaymas ; Mazatlan ; Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan; Panama); Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Oerres aprion Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 358, 1859 (San Domingo ; Jamaica ; West Indies ; South America); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., iv, 255, 1863 (San Domingo ; Jamaica ; Bahia); Bean & Dresel, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 154 (Jamaica) (not of Cuv.
& Val.).
Eucinostomus Iiarengulus Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 133 (Western Florida).
Diapterus harengnlus Goode & Beau, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 339 (Clear Water Harbor, Florida).
Oerres harengulus Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 584, 1883 (Pensacola, Florida); Beau & Dresel, Proc.
U. S.Nat.
Mus., 1884, 154 (.Jamaica).
Habitat.
Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America, and the West Indies (Cape San Lucas ; San Domingo ; Jamaica ; Havana; Bahia ; Western Florida; Panama; Guaymas; Mazatlan; Key West).
The numerous specimens examined by us are from Havana and Key West, and range from 1 to 7^ inches in length.
Head 3^ ; depth 2f to 2| ; scales 5-45-9 ; Dorsal IX-10 ; A. Ill-t.
Body elliptical, compressed, back moderately elevated ; anterior profile little convex, not very steep ; snout rather pointed, mouth moderate, maxillary reaching almost to vertical from front of orbit, its length 3 in length of head ; exposed portion of maxillary triangular in front, oblong behind, its width 2 in its length, which is 4| in length of head.
Preorbital and preopercle entire.
Eye not very large, its diameter 3^ in length of head, snout 3i in head.
Premaxillary groove long, linear, and naked, Gill-rakers small and weak, t below the angle.
Dorsal spines weak and flexible, the longest 4| to 2y^o in head ; anal spines rather short, the second the stronger, its length 3^ in length of head ; ventral fins short, their tips reaching about halfway to anal, their length If in head.
Pectorals slender, their tips reaching about to vent; length of pectorals about equal to head ; ventrals and caudal mostly covered with small scales ; other fins naked, color in life silver}', greenish above ; snout and upper part of caudal dusky ; spinous dorsal punctate at base, usually abruptly black at tip ; the dark areas are separated by a transparent horizontal bar (these markings wanting in some specimens, perhaps females); soft dorsal punctate ; caudal with a faint dusky margin ; ventrals pale.
This species is very common at Kej' West and Havana.
There seems to be no difference between the " harengulus " of the East Coast and the West Coast ^'gracilisy 5.
Gerres californiensis.
Diapterus calif ornienm Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 18G2, 245 (Cape San Lucas).
Gerres californiensis Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 274 (Guaymas); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Comni., 1881, 319 (Guaymas); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan); Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1888, 120 (Guaymas ; Mazatlan); Jordan, Cat.
Fislies N. A., 1885, 95. ?
Gerres gnla Steindachner, Ichth.
Beitriige, iii, 60, 1875 (name only ; nee Cuv.
& Val.
); (Magdalena Bay).
Habitat.
Pacific Coast of Mexico (Mazatlan ; Guaj^mas ; Cape San Lucas).
This species is certain!
}^ close to G. cinereus, and it may eventually prove to be a variety of the latter.
6.
Gerres cinereus.
Tardus cinereus peltatus Catesby, Nat.
Hist., pi.
ii, fig.
2, 1750 (Florida Keys ; Bahamas).
Mugil cinereus Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, 228, 1792 (After Catesby).
Gerres cinei-eus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn, Fish.
N. A., 935, 1883; Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 120 ; Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 130, 148 (Key West); Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 194 (identification of Catesby's figure); Jordan, Cat.
Fishes N. A., 1885, 95.
Gerres zebra Miiller & Troschel, Schomburgk Hist.
Barbadoes, 668, 1848 (Barbadoes); Gimther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 349, 1859 (copied); Gihather, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., iv, 254, 1862 (copied); Steindachner, Ichthyol.
Notizen, iv, ii, 1867 (Surinam); Steindachner, Zur Fisch-Fauua des Magdalenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (Rio Magdalena.
Identified with Gerres squamipinnis Giinther ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Comm., 1881, 329 (Mazatlan); Bean & Dresel, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 154 (Jamaica).
Gerres aprion Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed.
2, 104, 1829 (Based on Catesby) ; Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., 461, 1830 (Martinique).
Diapterus aprion Voej, Enum.
Pise.
Cuba, 51, 1875 (Havana).
Eucinostomus aprion Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cuba, 328, 1877 (Havana).
Gerres squamipin7iis Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 349, 1859 (Jamaica; Guatemala); Gimther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., iv, 254, 18G2 (Jamaica; Guatemala); Steindachner, Ichthyol.
Notizen, iv, 12, 1867 (Surinam); Gimther, Fish.
Centr.
Amer., 39, 18G9 (Jamaica; Chiapam ; Panama).
Eucinostomus zebra Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cuba, 51, 1875 (Havana).
Habitat.
Both coasts of Tropical America, and the West Indies (Havana ; Jamaica ; Chiapam ; Panama ; Guatemala ; Martinique ; Bahamas ; Florida Keys ; Barbadoes ; Mazatlan.)
The specimens before us are from Key West and Havana.
They range from 6^ to 13 inches in length.
This species seems to reach a larger size than any of the others here mentioned.
Head 3^ ; depth 2^ to ^ ; scales 6-45-10.
Body compressed, elongate, back moderately elevated, the dorsal profile being evenly convex.
Mouth moderate, the maxillary extending but slightly beyond the vertical at anterior margin of orbit, its exposed portion triangular in form, and twice as long as wide, its length being contained five times in that of the head.
Preorbital and preopercle entire ; premaxillary groove broad and free from scales ; gill-rakers weak, 7 below the angle.
Eye moderate, about 3^ in head ; snout 3:^, and interorbital space 3j, in head.
Distance from end of snout to dorsal fin 2^ in length of body.
Second dorsal spine longest, about 1^ in head, and not much stronger than the others ; all the dorsal spines are weak and flexible ; general outline of the upper margin of the spinous dorsal falcate.
Second and third anal spines subequal, second 2f to 2| in length of head, the pectorals scarcely reaching anal, their length being contained three times in that of the body.
Ventrals contained If times in head, and scarcely reaching the vent.
Color silvery with bluish reflections above.
Sides with 7 or 8 broken, bluish vertical bars, about equaling pupil in width.
No dark stripes along the scales.
Dorsal and caudal fins dusk^^ and slightly so ; other fins pale, ventrals with a few dark punctulations ; axil dark.
7.
Gerres gula.
Oerres gula Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., vi, 464, 1830 (Martinique; Brazil); Jenyns, Zool.
Beagle, Fishes, 58, 1843; Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 346, 1859 (Bahia ; San Domingo ; Jamaica); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., iv, 255, 1862 (Bahia; San Domingo; Jamaica); Poey, Rep. Pise.
Cub., 316, 1865 (Havana); Goode, Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mas., v, 1876, 39 (Bermudas) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 934, 1883 ; Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 122 (Bermudas; Beaufort, N. C; Charleston, S. C; Aspinwall ; Peusacola); Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 289 (Notes on original type); Jordan, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus , 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan & Swain, Pioc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 233 (Cedar Keys); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Diapterus gula Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 323, 1868 (Havana).
Eudnostomus argenteus Baird & Girard^ Ninth Smith.
Rept., 1855, 345 (New Jersey Coast); Girard, U. S. andMex.
Bd.
Survey, Fishes, 17, PI.
ix, figs.
9-12, 1859 (Brazos Santiago, Indianola, and St. Joseph's Island, Texas).
?
Gerres argenteus Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., 25G, 1863 (Texas).
Eucinostomus gulula Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 54, PI, 2, 1875 (Havana).
Diapterus liomonymus Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1879, 340, (Clear Water Harbor, Fla.).
Habitat.
Atlantic coast of America from New Jersey to Brazil, and the West Indies.
(New Jersey ; Beaufort, N. C. ; Charleston, S. C. ; Clear Water Harbor, Fla.; Cedar Keys; Key West ; Brazos, Indianola, and St. Joseph's Island, Texas ; Aspinwall ; Brazil; Bahia ; Martinique; Jamaica, San Domingo ; Havana; Bermudas.)
We have examined numerous specimens of this species from Cedar Kej's, Key West, and Havana, varying in size from 1^ to 6^ inches in length.
Head 3J ; depth 2|; D.IX, 10; A.
Ill, 8; scales 5-42-9.
Body elliptical, compressed, back moderately elevated, mouth small ; end of maxillary reaching slightly past vertical from front margin of orbit ; exposed portion of maxillary nearly oblong, its width about 2 in its length, which is from 4 to 5 in the length of the head.
Preorbital and preopercle entire.
Gill-rakers small and weak, 1 below the angle.
Eye 3 in length of head, snout 3^ in head.
Interorbital area 3 in head.
Premaxillary groove scaled in front, the posterior part naked, forming a sort of pit ; longest dorsal spine 1^ in head ; second anal spine shorter and stronger than third, its length about 3^ in head ; ventrals reaching nearly to vent ; their length If in length of head.
Pectorals reaching front of anal, their length about 3 in length of body.
Color silvery, greenish, darker above; no distinct longitudinal lines except in ver}' young ; upper margin of spinous dorsal more or less black.
Dorsal and anal fins dusky, other fins pale.
The form of this species resembles that of G. gracilis^ but the body is always less elongate than in the latter.
The form of its premaxillary groove differing from that of any other species, aff"ords the best character for distinction.
The many specimens of this species which we have examined present no marked diff"erences or variations.
They also agree very well with the description and drawing of Encinostomus gulula of Poey.
We have no doubt of the identity of gula, argenteus^ gulula and homonymus.
18 8.
Gerres aureolus.
Oerres aureolus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Comm., 1881, 328 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish.
Coram., 1882, 111 (Panama); Everman & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 123 (Panama).
Sabitat.B&j of Panama.
Only the original type of this strongly marked species is yet known.
9.
Gerres peruvianus.
Gerres peruvianus Cuvier fe Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., vi, 467, 1830 (Payta, Northern Peru); Lesson, Voyage Coquille, Poiss., 180, 1828 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 330 (Mazatlan; Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U, S. Fish Comm., 1882, 108, 111, 113 (Panama; Mazatlan ; Punta Arenas); Evermann & Meek, Proc, Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 289 (Notes on original type); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Gerres rhomieiis Giinther, Fish Centr.
Amer., 391, 1866 (Name only\ (Chiapam); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 232 (Salina Cruz), (not of Cuv.
& Val.).
Habitat.
West Coast of Tropical America (Mazatlan ; Salina Cruz; Chiapam; Panama; Peru).
Dr. Jordan has examined the type of this species, of which he says : " The type of this species is apparently identical with the common west-coast species called by this name by Jordan and Gilbert (Bull.
17.
S. Fish Comm., 188, 330), and later by Evermann and Meek (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 123)."
10.
Gerres rhombeus.
Stone bass Sloane, Nat.
Hist.
Jamaica, ii, pi.
2.:3, fig.
1, 1727 (Jamaica).
Gerres rhombeus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss , vi, 459, 1830 (Martinique ; San Domingo); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus , 1, 341, 1859 (Cuba; Jamaica; Puerto Capello ; South America; in part G .
olisthostoma Goode & Bean); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., iv, 253, 1862 (Cuba; Jamaica ; Puerto Capello); Steindachner, Zur Fisch-Fauna ]Magdalenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (Eio Magdalena^; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
TJ.
S. Nat.
Mus., 1883, 383 (AspinwalD; Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jordan, Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 290 (Notes on original type); Eean & Dresel, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 154 (Jamaica).
Habitat.
West Indies and Atlantic Coast of Tropical America (Jamaica ; San Domingo ; Martinique ; Puerto Capello ; Havana ; Aspinwall ; Rio Magdalena).
We luive examined a number of specimens from Havana, ranging from 2f to 10 inches in length.
Head 3^ ; depth If ; scales 5-38-10.
D. IX, 10 ; A. II, 9.
Body much compressed, rhomboidal in form, the back much elevated ; profile evenly convex to supraorbital where there is a slight depression ; snout somewhat pointed ; mouth rather large ; end of maxillary reaching to vertical from centre of pupil, its length 3 in head.
Exposed portion of the maxillary oblong, its width about 2| in its length, which is 4^ in head.
Ej-e 3j in head ; snout 4 in head ; interorbital area 3;^ in head.
Gill-rakers stronger than in gida or olisthostoma 18 below the angle.
PremaxilJary groove broad, oval and free from scales.
Pectoral fins reaching to front of anal, their length 3 in length of body ; ventral fins reaching be3'ond vent, their length 4^ in length of bod3^ Second dorsal spine stronger, but shorter than third and fourth, its length about i^ in length of body ; margin of fin falcate.
Suborbital entire ; preopercle entire.
Caudal peduncle 2 in length of head.
Anal spine constantly two in number.
Second anal spine 1| in length of hea(J.
Color silvery, with bluish reflections, darker above ; margin of dorsal fin black ; fins rather pale ; ventrals and anal with dusky punctulations ; snout dusky ; no distinct dark lines along the rows of scales.
11.
Gerres olisthostoma.
Gerres rJtombeus'Poey, Kep.
Pise.
Cub., 316, 1865 (Havana); Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 331, 1868 (Havana).
Mojarra rTiomhea Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 51, 1875 (Havana); Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 327, 1877 (Havana) (not Oerres rhonibeus C. & v.).
Oerres olisthostoma Goode & Bean, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1882, 423 (Indian River, Florida); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 934, 1883 ; Eveimann & Meek, Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jordan, Proe.
U. S. Nat.
Mas.. 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Habitat.
Coast of Florida and Quba (Key West; Indian River, Fla.; Havana ; San Matheos).
We have examined specimens from Key West, Havana and San Matheos.
They range from 5 inches to a foot in length.
Head 3^ ; depth 2^ ; scales 5-38-9.
D. IX, 10 ; A.
Ill, 8.
Body compressed, rhomboidal in form, back very much elevated.
Mouth large, maxillary extending to vertical from anterior portion of pupil, its length 2| in head ; exposed portion oblong, its width 2^ in its length, which is 4 to i^ in head.
Preorbital entire ; preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove broad, closely covered with small scales (an important diagnostic character); gill-rakers weak, 11 below the angle.
Eye 3^ in head ; interorbital space 3^, and snout about 3^ in head.
Distance from snout to dorsal fin about 2^ in length.
Second dorsal spine 1^ to 1^ in head ; third about equal to second, the others decreasing in length, the sixth being but one-half length of second the general outline of upper margin of spinous dorsal being sickle-shaped.
Pectorals reaching slightly beyond front of anal, and equal a little less than one-third length of body.
Yentrals reaching just beyond vent and are one-fourth length of body.
Anal spines always 3.
Second anal spine stout, about If in head.
Least depth of caudal peduncle about 2^ in head.
Color silvery with bluish reflections, darker above.
No distinct dark lines along rows of scales.
Dorsal, ventrals and anal dusk}^, other fins paler.
A dark supraorbital spot ; snout dusky.
This species has, until lately, been confounded with(r. rhombeus.
12.
Gerres brasilianus.
Oerres brasilianus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., vi, 458, 1830 (Brazil; Porto Rico); Poey, Rep. Pise.
Cub,, i, 315, 1865 (Havana); Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 320, 1868 (Havana); Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 50, 1875 (Havana); Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 327, 1877 (Havana); Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 124 ; Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1883, 289 (Notes on type).
Oerres patao Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 192, 1858 (Havana); Poey, Syn.
Pise.
Cub., 320, 1868 (Havana); Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 50, 1875 (Havana); Glinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., iv, 253, 1862 (Copied); Evennann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 123.
We have examined a veiy large specimen of this species collected at Charleston, South Carolina, by Mr. Charles C. Leslie, as well as numerous smaller ones from Havana.
Head 8f ; depth 2i ; scales 5-38-9; D. IX-10; A. Ill-t or 8.
Body compressed, rhombojjdal ; back very much elevated ; profile nearly straight from spinous dorsal to premaxillary groove, where there is a slight depression.
Snout conical, bluutish ; mouth rather large ; maxillary reaching slightly beyond the vertical from anterior margin of pupil, its length 2| in length of head.
Exposed portion of maxillary oblong, its width 2^ in its length, its length 4^ in length of head.
Preorbital and preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove broad, narrowed posteriorly, entirely free from scales.
Gill-rakers short and weak, 11 below the angle; eye small, 3| in length of head ; snout 3| in length of head.
Dorsal spines rather strong and stiff, second and third subequal in length, the second much the stronger, its length If in length of head, upper margin of dorsal fin falcate.
Second and third anal spines subequal, the second much the stronger, its length 1| in length of head.
Least depth of caudal peduncle 2^ in length of head.
Color silvery gray, with bluish reflections, darker above, a dark streak along each row of scales, most conspicuous on upper part of bod}^ ; tins all dusky except pectorals, which are pale ; dorsal and anal blackish on their margins, A dark supraorbital spot; axil dusky.
The description of Gerres hrasilianus Cuv.
and Yal, is very poor indeed, Dr, Jordan has examined the type, and we here give a copy of his notes : " The type of this species is in very bad condition, unfit for detailed description.
Sides apparently with dark stripes along the rows of scales.
Preorbital and preopercle serrate.
Frontal groove broad, naked.
Longest dorsal spine 5 in body.
Second anal spine 5^.
Anal spines 3 in number.
Caudal fin long.
This species is allied to G. plumieri, but the back is less elevated and the spines smaller than in the latter."
The above agrees very well with our specimens from Charleston and Havana, the latter being evidently identical with the Gerres patao of Poey.
i;^.
Gerres lineatus.
Smaris lineatus Humboldf, Observ, Zool., i=, 185, PI.
43, 1807-1834 (Acapulco).
Oerres lineatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., vi, 470, 1830 (Description from Humboldt); Jordan fe Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 330 (Mazatlan ; San Bias); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U. S. Fist Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull.
U, S, Nat, Mus., 1882, 377 (Fresh-water Lake at Acapulco); Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat, Sci.
Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jo: dan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Gerres axillaris Giinther, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1864, 102 ; Giinther, Fish.
Cent.
Amer., 448, 1866 (Chiapani); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1881, 233 (Name only) (San Bias).
Habitat.
West Coast of Mexico (Acapulco ; Mazatlan ; San Bias ; Chiapam).
14.
Gerres brevimanus.
Gerres brevimanus Giintlier, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1864, 153 ; Giinthcr, Fish.
Centr.
Amer., 448, 1869 (Cbiapam); Evermann and Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 124 ; Jordan.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 290 (Notes on type).
Habitat.
Pacific Coast of Tropical America.
Concerning this species, Dr. Jordan observes : " This species is distinct from G. lineatus (Humboldt), although closely allied to it.
Only the original type is yet known.
On this I have the following notes : " Head 3j in length ; depth 2^ ; eye 3^ in head.
Coloration of Gerres lineatus.
Back much lower than in the latter, and pectoral fins very much shorter; their length 1^ in head; their tips not reaching nearly to tips of ventrals, which are 1^ in head ; caudal 3 in body, Preorbital very little serrate, almost entire.
Preopercle weakly serrate.
Second dorsal spine If in head; second anal spine If.
Teeth small and short.
No black on base of pectoral, or on lower fins.
Spinous dorsal dusky above.
Frontal groove broad and naked, as in G.
lineatus.
''^ 15.
Gerres plumieri.
Gerres phtmieri Ciivier & Valenciennes, list.
Nat.
Poiss., vi, 452, 1830, (Antilles; Porto Puco); Giinther, Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus., i, 340, 1859 (San Domingo; Guatemala; Pemambnco ; Bahia); Cat.
Fish, Brit.
Mus., iv, 253, 1862 (San Domingo ; Guatemala; Pemambuco; Bahia); Poey, Rep. Pise.
Cub., 315, 1865 (Havana); Poey, Syn.Pisc.
Cub., 321, 1868 (Havana); Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 49, 1875 (Havana); Poey, Enum.
Pise.
Cub., 327, 1877 (Havana); Steindachner, Zur Fisch-Fauua des Magdalenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (RioMagdalena); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn.
Fish.
N. A., 583, 1883 ; Evermann & Meek, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phil.. 1883, 124 (Aspinwall ; Indian River, Florida); Jordan, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1883, 290 (Notes on, type); Bean & Dresel, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., 1884, 153 (Jamaica); Jordan, Cat.
Fish.
N. A., 1885, 95.
Habitat.
West Indies and Atlantic Coast of Tropical America (Antilles; Havana; Porto Rico ; San Domingo; Jamaica; Indian River, Fla. ; Pernambuco ; Bahia ; Aspinwall ; Guatemala).
We have examined six specimens from Havana.
They range from 5^ to 6 inches in length.
Head 3 ; depth 2^ ; scales 5-3T-11.
D. lY, 10 ; A.
Ill, 8.
Body compressed, rhomboidal in form, back yery much elevated.
Mouth rather large, maxillary extending slightly beyond 1886.]
2T1 vertical from anterior margin of pupil, its length 2f in head ; exposed portion of maxillary oblong, its width 2^ in its length, which is 4| in length of head.
Preorbital and preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove broad and entirely free from scales.
Gill-rakers small, weak, 13 below the angle.
Eye rather large, 3 in head ; snout 4 in head.
Distance from tip of snout to dorsal fin equals the greatest depth of fish.
Upper margin of dorsal fin is sickle-shaped.
Second dorsal spine very strong and long, its length 2| in length of body ; the other spines rather weak and flexible.
Second anal spine very long and strong, its length equals length of head ; third anal spine shorter and much weaker than second.
Pectoral fins reaching beyond the front of anal, their length 2f in length of body ; ventral fins reaching past vent, almost to front of anal, their length 3 in length of body.
Color bluish-silvery above, silvery below ; distinct dark longitudinal lines along each row of scales.
Dorsal caudal and anal fins dusky ; margin of dorsal fin black ; a dark supraorbital spot.
Pectoral and ventral fins pale.
The following is a list of the nominal species referred to in the foregoing paper, arranged in chronological order, with our identification of each.
Tenable specific names are printed in italics.
Nominal Species.
Mugil cinereus Walbanm, Smaris lineatus Humboldt, Gerres jjlumieri Cuvier and Valenciennes, Gerres hrasilianiis Cuv.
and Val., Gerres rJiombeus Cuv.
and Val., Gerres aprion Cuv.
and Val., Gerres gula Cuv, and Val., Gerres peruvianus Cuv.
and Val., Gerres zebra jMiiller and Troschel, Eucinostomus argeuteus Baird & Girard, Gerres patao Poey, Gerres squamipinnis Giinther, Diapterus californiensis Gill, Diapterus gracilis Gill, Diapterus dowi Gill, Gerres axillaris Gihitlicr, Gerres brevimartus Giinther, Gerres lefroyi Goode, Eucinostomus pseudo-gula Poey, Eucinostomus gulula Poey, Year.
Identification.
1792, Gerres ciuereus.
1830, Gerres lineatus.
1830, Gerres plumieri.
1830, Gerres brasilianas.
1830, Gerres rliombeus.
1830, Gerres cinereus.
1830, Gerres gula.
1830, Gerres peruvianus.
1848, Gerres cinereus.
1855, Gerres gula.
1858, Gerres brasilianus.
1859, Gerres cinereus.
1862, Gerres californiensis, 1862, Gerres gracilis.
1863, Gerres dowi.
1884, Gerres lineatus.
1864, Gerres brevimanus.
1874, Gerres lefroyi.
1875, Gerres pseudo-gula.
1875, Gerres gula.
Nominal Species.
Year.
Identification.
Eucinostomus productus Poey, 1876, Gerres lefroyi.
Gerres jonesi Giinther, 1879, Genes pseudogula.
EucinostorausharengulusGoode and Bean, 1879, Gerres gracilis.
Diapterus homonymus Goode and Bean, 1879, Gerres gula.
Gerres avreolus Jordan and Gilbert, 1881, Gerres aureolus.
Gerres olisthostoma Goode and Bean, 1882, Gerres olistliostoma.
Recapitulation.
We have in this paper admitted 15 species of the American Gerridae, and repeat here the list of species.
The distribution of the species is indicated by the letters W. (West Indies and adjacent coasts), U.
(Southern Atlantic coast of the United States), and P. (Pacific coast of Tropical America).
1.
Genus GERRES Cuvier.
1.
Gerres lefroyi Goode (W.).
2.
Qerres dowi Gill (U. ; W. ; P.).
3.
Gerres pseudogula Poey (W.).
4.
Gerres gracilis Gill (U. ; W. ; P.).
5.
Gerres ealifomiensis Gill (P.).
6.
Gerres einereus Walbaum (U. ; W. ; P.).
7 Gerres gula Cuv.
and Val.
(U. ; W.).
8.
Gerres aureolus Jordan & Gilbert (Panama).
9.
Gerres peruvinnus Cuv.
& Val.
(P.).
10.
Gerres rhomheus Cuv.
& Val.
(W.).
11.
Gerres olisthostoma Goode & Bean (W. ; U.).
12.
Gerres brasilianus Cuv.
& Val.
(W. ; U.).
13.
Gerres lineatus Humlioldt (P. ).
14.
Gerres hrevimanus Giinther (P.).
15.
Gerres plumieri Cuv.
& Val.
(W. ; U.).
1886.]
natural sciences op philadelphia.
273 June 1.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
The deaths of C. J. Hoffman, a member, and of C. U. Shepherd, a correspondent, were announced.
Trapa bicornis, L. Mr. Meehan called attention to the Ling nut of the Chinese, of which a specimen on the table was fourhorned, as in the European species T. riatans, and another with three.
It showed that the calj'cine horns were little more than bracts, and that the European species was one more highly developed than the Asiatic species.
Formation of Crowds Nest Brandies in the Cherry Tree In regard to fasciated branches, or as they were familiarly called "crow's nests," in trees, Mr. Meehan remarked that they might be classed as different species, and perhaps each species might have its own peculiar law of development.
In former contributions to the Academy, he had explained some of the phenomena attendant on fasciation in trees and plants, which gave clues as to their origin.
In the cherry there was a species of fasciation distinct from that prevailing in most trees.
In a portion of the mass of branches cut from the main mass, very little of an abnormal character could be noted.
But on the tree itself a huge mass of small branches proceeding from one common branch might be noted, in striking contrast with the prevailing character.
The specimens exhibited were from a mass of about four feet in diameter.
In this there were about two hundred branchlets.
In one of the thickest growths of a normal character, only about twenty branchlets could be counted in a similar space.
The weight of these fasciations was so great that the masses hung like pendulums from the trees.
The garden cherry had for more than a century been naturalized near Philadelphia, and he knew of three of these fasciations, one on each wild tree, within a half mile of each other.
He had not seen any on cultivated trees.
They had been under his observation for years.
The}^ might be said to never flower.
On one he had seen two weak flowers last year.
There were none this.
The leaves are attacked by a species of fungus, which Professor Farlow, of Cambridge, had kindly worked out for him, and found to be Exoascus Wilsneri, an European species closely allied to E. deformans, the species well known as causing the disease called the " curl " in the peach.
Prof. Farlow states that the specimens sent by Mr. Meehan gave him the first knowledge of the existence of the species in America.
As in the peach leaf-curl, the first leaves that push in the spring are attacked, and are soon destroj-ed, the blistered and browned leaves all falling by the first of June.
New leaves, free from the fungus, and weak shoots follow the attack.
The absence of flowers led to the discovery of the method by which the fasciation is formed.
In the normal condition of the cherry tree, the weak shoots become fruit-bearing spurs.
From these spurs leaves annually appear, leaving an axillary bud, which becomes the flower bud of the next season.
The leaf continues healthy throughout the growing season, and the parts that, morphologically speaking, might make a weak growth of wood, remain in a kind of microcosm as sepals, petals, stamens, and carpels, fed by the leaf for another year.
But when this leaf is injured or destroyed, instead of the bud remaining quiescent, or the theoretical leaves changing into floral parts in the bud, a new growth of leaves and the weak shoot are produced instead.
It is indeed so clear when once observed that the fasciation is simply the development to weak branches of what would normally' be blossom spurs, that it was provoking to reflect that it had taken so many years to discover it.
An interesting observation was that the fungus should confine itself to the fasciated mass for so many years, and show no disposition whatever to spread to any other part of the tree.
In practical gardening we were taught when these fungus pests appeared on orchard trees it was highly important to cut off the branches or leaves, and burn them, in order to check the spread.
In the absence of actual demonstration in this case, one might with good reason assume that the mycelium of the parasite had obtained an entrance into the tissue and propagated itself continuously as the branches grew, and that a crop of spores in myriads must be produced annually.
Only in rare instances were the circumstances favorable to their germination.
The careful cutting away and burning of a few thousand spores would be a matter of small importance in comparison with the immense number that must escape the eff'ort of the cultivator for their destruction.
Safety lies evidently rather in the difficulty these minute bodies experience in finding the exact conditions necessarj^ for their growth and development, than from the destruction of the germs themselves.
Distribution of Modiola tulipa.
Mr. John Ford reported the finding by him of a half-grown specimen of Modiola tulipa Lam., near Cape May, N. J., on the 16th ult.
As the species is essentially a southern one, it was at first supposed that the specimen had been carried north on the bottom of a vessel, or in some other artificial manner.
The discovery two weeks later, by Mr. Ford, of a dozen or more adult specimens, at Anglesea, ten miles further north, seems to prove that the species has entered upon its new conditions in large numbers, and with the purpose of making its new home a permanent one.
There is no record of the species having been found north of South Carolina before.
Toxodon and other Remains from Nicaragua^ G. A. Prof. Leidf directed attention to some fossils, and remarked that they were part of a collection which he had been invited to examine b}^ Mrs. Dr. B. F. Guerrero, now residing in this cityThe collection was obtained from the northern part of Nicaragua, but nothing further had been learned about it.
It mostly consisted of uncharacteristic fragments of bones, but among them were many interesting specimens referable to Megatherium, Elephant, Mastodon, Horse, Ox, Toxodon, and Capybara.
The association of these animals is another illustration of the extension of the early South American quaternary fauna into North America.
Among the remains of Ilegatheriinn there is the greater part of the distal extremity of a femur and a fragment of the mandible with two teeth.
Of the Elephant there is a portion of a molar tooth.
Of the Mastodon there is a molar tooth and portions of several others apparently of the M. andium.
Of the Horse there are two upper molar teeth, with no well-marked difference distinguishing them from those of ordinarj' varieties of the Domestic Horse.
Perhaps they may pertain to one or other of the species indicated by Prof. Owen with the names of Equiis curvidens or E. tau.
Of the Ox, the collection contains several horn-cores of different sizes; one, double the size of that of the Domestic Ox.
The Capybara is indicated by a fragment of the left ramus of a mandible with the first molar alveolus containing the greater part of the tooth.
The specimen conforms to the corresponding portion of the jaw of the living Cap3bara, but indicates a considerably larger and more robust animal.
Considering the difference in size and age of the fossil, it was probably a different species from the Cap}isara, and regarding it as such he proposes for it the name of EydrocJwerus 7^obustiis.
The first molar tooth complete would have the appearance represented in figure 1, and, ^except in size, does not differ from that of the Capybara.
Comparative measurements of the fossil are as follows : Depth of mandible at ^irst molar, Length of first molar.
Fore and aft diameter, Transverse diameter of last dental |H3.tG^ Diameter of incisive alveolus, .
Dr. Lund, in his Fossil Fauna of Brazil (An.
Sc.
Nat., 1839, H H. robustius.
Capj'bara.
5fi mm.
33 mm.
55 " 36 " 25 " 17 " 13 " 9 " 20 " 10 " 214) refers to remains of Hydrochoerus, which he refers to two species, one as H. affine Capybarae, not diflferent from the living Capybara, and another which he calls H. sidcidens^ of a size intermediate to the latter and the Tapir, and having the incisors deeply grooved in front.
He remarks the former differs in having the incisors smooth in front as in the living species, which sajung is obscure, for in the living Capybara the incisors are conspicuously grooved in front.
Prof. Owen (Yoyage of the Beagle 110), speaks of a decomposed molar tooth of Hydrochoerus, found with remains of Megatherium, Toxodon, etc., by Mr. Darwin at Bahia Blanca, S. A.
He remarks that the fossil differs from the corresponding tooth of the Capybara, in the greater relative breadth of the component laminse.
Prof. Gervais (Rech.
Mara.
Fos.
de I'Amerique Meredionale, 1855, 12), describes remains of Hj'drochoerus, found with those of Megatherium, Toxodon, etc., at Tarija, Bolivia.
They consisted of portions of upper jaws, which are regarded as pertaining to a species but little different in size and in the form of the teeth from the recent Capybara.
They are referred to the E. affinis Capybarae of Dr. Lund.
A specimen of a maxilla with the last two molar teeth, figured in Plate xiii, fig.
3, of the work, indicates a more robust animal than the living Capybara, and the last molar tooth is composed of fourteen plates, a greater number than exists in the recent animal.
In four skulls of the latter he found the last upper molar to have twelve plates, while in the fossil described by Gervais there are fourteen plates.
Couiparative measurements of the latter fossil with the recent animal are as follows : Capybara.
Tarija fossil.
Last molar, fore and aft diameter, 33 to 34 mm.
50 mm.
Last molar, transverse diameter, 12 to 13 " 20 " Penultimate molar, fore and aft, 9 to 10 " 14 " He thought it probable that the remains of Hydrochoerus.^ referred by Lund and Gervais to H. affinis Capybarse, and those mentioned by Owen, as above noted, probably also belong to the species he had named H. robustus.
He formerly described some remains of Hydrochoerus, which were found in association with those of 3Iegatheriu7n, etc., in the Ashley Phosphate Beds of South Carolina (Post-pleiocene Fossils of South Carolina, 18G0, 112, pi.
xxi, figs.
3-6).
These consistof teeth, which agree in size with those of the recent Capybara, and were referred to a probably extinct species, with the name of H. ^sopi.
The most interesting fossils of the collection are those of Toxodon, as being evidence of the former existence of this remarkable animal in North America.
The best preserved and best marked specimens consist of a nearl}^ complete lower molar tooth, and two portions of a lower incisor.
These in their form and size best I agree with the corresponding teeth of Toxodon Burmeisteri^ described and figured by Dr. Burmeister, in the Annals of the Museum of Buenos Aires, 1869, 256, pi.
xi.
The molar tooth is the penultimate of the left side.
Its length, when complete, has approximated five inches, and it measures 43 mm.
fore and aft, and 18 mm.
transversely at its fore part.
An outline of the triturating surface is represented in figure 2.
Enamel invests the outer surface extending about half way round the corners in front and behind.
On the inner surface enamel invests the middle extending furthest behind.
The inner angles of the tooth are both destitute of enamel.
The outer enamel layer forms a single inflection about the anterior third of the tooth ; the inner enamel layer forms two inflections nearly equidistant behind the position of the outer one ; the posterior inflection being the deepest.
The incisor, apparently the second lower of the right side, is broken into two about the middle, and when complete has been over six inches long.
The transverse section, as seen in figure 3, viewed from below, is triangular, with the apex directed outward, and the base inward or mesially.
The front surface is transversely convex, and the back surface in the same direction concave.
The inner surface, extending around the corners, further in front than behind, is destitute of enamel.
The triturating surface is worn away in a slope from the outer border inward and backward.
The measurement of the section in front and behind is 37 mm., and internally fore and aft 23 mm.
June 8.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-one persons present.
A paper entitled " On the Histology of Salpa (S. runcinatafusiformis)," by Dr. Chas.
S, Dolley, was presented for publication.
Oa the Expansion of the Crystalline lens.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp remarked that it is well known that accommodation in the eye, for distance, is effected by the contraction of the ciliary muscle, drawing on the point of attachment of the capsular ligament of the lens, the lens widening its optical axis as soon as the tension of the ligament is released.
The lens is flattened, or its optical axis is shortened, as soon as the ciliar}^ muscle is relaxed; the ligament being drawn upon by the elasticity of the sclera, and perhaps it is somewhat aided by the intraocular pressure.
Dr. Sharp stated that as far as he knew the mechanism of the " lenticular expansion " had not been described.
This action is easily seen on turning to the development of the lens.
The lens is formed by an invagination of the external ectoderm soon closing, and as a result we have a spherical vesicle, soon enclosed in the mouth of the secondary optic vesicle.
When this has taken place, the posterior wall of the lens-vesicle thickens, that is, the posterior cells commence to elongate, and grow toward the anterior wall of the vesicle, the cells of which remain, generally speaking, of the same size, and later form the so-called epithelium of the lens.
Keeping this structure in view, we see that when pressure is brought to bear on the lens, these elongated cells of the posterior wall are compressed in their longitudinal axis, so that as soon as the pressure is removed, they simply straighten out.
This will also account for the fact, that the anterior face of the lens is the onl}^ portion that moves in the act of accommodation for distance.
In the adult lens this structure is to a certain extent lost, and the lens is generally described as being made up of layers concentrically arranged.
This is true, but the embryonic " impression " still remains.
If we supposed that the lens were made up of layers concentrically arranged and so formed^ when the capsular ligament " slacked up " the tendency of the lens w^ould be to shorten its optical axis instead of lengthening it.
The Opal Mines of Queretaro^ Mexico.
Dr. A. E. Foote remarked that the localit}^ referred to is particularly interesting as being the only one in North America that is being worked solely for the production of gems.
The opals of Mexico have been celebrated since 1820, when Karsten and Del Rio referred to the opals of Zimapan and that neighborhood as being in many respects equal and in some respects superior to the Hungarian.
There are quite a number of fine localities from which considerable quantities have been exported to Europe, so that among the lovers of the beautiful, Mexico is as well known for its brilliant opals as for the soft and exquisite tints of the tecali or Mexican onyx.
As in the case of diamonds from Brazil and Africa, there is a jeweler's prejudice against the new locality, and they are considered even more unluck}^ and liable to break than those of Hungary, I have, however, seen in the possession of Senor Cosio magnificent specimens that had been taken out over ten years, and were without a flaw.
The locality in Queretaro is the only one in Mexico that is being worked to any extent now.
The principal mines are on the hacienda of Esperanza, where the opal was discovered, by a servant, ten years ago.
No mines were taken up until 1870, when Di\ Jose Maria Siurob located the mine of Santa Maria Iris.
The fine specimens secured during the next few years created so much excitement that a large number of mines were located, most of which are now abandoned.
The district is quite extensive, having been traced over a region about twenty leagues long by thirty-one leagues wide.
At Ciervo, fourteen leagues from Esperanza, the opal is quite abundant, though none of the precious variety of good quality has been found.
The mines of Esperanza can only be reached on horseback, and the ride from Qneretaro is a very hard one.
San Juan del Rio, said to be the nearest large town where one can get accommodations for the night, is ten leagues to the S. E. Leaving the Mexican Central Railroad and crossing a rich alluvial plain, covered with fields of corn and the so-called century plant, surrounded by fences of Gereiis giganteus, we came to the foot hills.
Here at once abundant evidences of volcanic action were seen.
Round nodules of obsidian, large masses of agate, milk opal, and other siliceous products, Avere mixed with the cacti on every side.
The rough trail soon led into the dry bed of a barranca, where porph3-ritic trachyte carrying tlie common varieties of opal were quite abundant ; the trend of these porphyritic banks was from S. E. to N. W. The color of the rock is reddish gray.
As the barranca terminated in a narrow valley, on the mountains on each side were seen the red dumps standing out conspicuously upon the gray surface.
Of the mines that he visited only one, the Jurado, was being Avorked.
The deposits of opal-bearing trachyte are so irregular that the mines are soon exliausted.
The Jurado is an immense excavation about 150 feet deep several hundred feet long, and about 100 feet wide.
At the bottom, the porphyritic rock seemed to be thoroughly impreo-nated with hydrated silica, even occasionally being converted into common opal.
The general appearance of the rock furnishes a very good clue to the character of the opals that it may contain.
Thus if the rock is less red in color and close and compact in texture, fire opals and related forms abound, while if the rock is deep red in color or clayey and pockety, the Hungarian, harlequin, and milky opals are much more abundant.
There is no locality of which he had ever heard where such an extraordinary variety of opals can be found in a sino-le matrix.
The same small piece of rock will show fire opal, fire opal showing green and blue reflections, the Hungarian, harlequin girasol, h3'alite, milk, and almost every vai-iety.
The harlequins showing a mosaic of brilliant minute spangles of color in a milky base, vie with the broad sheets of dazzling blue, red and green.
Perhaps, like Ruskin, we should give the palm to the "Milky opals tliat gleam and shine like sullen fires in a pallid mist.""'
Vitality of Mollusca.
Prof. Heilprin called attention to a remarkable case of vitality among certain members of the fauna of the New Jersey coast.
Specimens of Nassa obsoleta collected by Miss Emma Walter, at Atlantic City just one year ago, and i-etained dry during the entire j'ear of their accidental captivity, were stated to be still alive, although subjected for several months to the abnormal temperature occasioned b}'^ proximity to a heated wall surface.
This, the speaker contended, was perhaps the most extraordinary instance of vitality known among the marine mollusca, although among the terrestrial and freshwater forms, especially among those which undergo a partial hibernation, longer periods of semi-adaptation to imposed conditions have been noted.
Instances of such survivals were cited by the speaker and Prof. Leidy.
June 15.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Twenty-two persons present.
June 22.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
A paper, entitled " Notes on the Paspali of Le Conte's Monograph," b}^ Geo.
yasey,was presented for publication.
Note on Quercus dentata.
Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens of Quercus dentata with female flowers, from a specimen raised from an acorn received from Japan ten } ears ago.
It is of very rapid growth, being now eighteen feet high, and six inches in circumference.
So recently as the issue of the volume of De GandolWs Prodromits, it was noted that the fruit was unknown.
Some account of these female flowers might have an interest.
Like our annual fruited oaks the flowers appear at the end of the young growth, in pairs on peduncles about half an ^ The speaker had collected at the opal mines a number of specimens of minute bright white rhombohedrons showing the basal planes ; these have been examined by Prof. E. S. Dana, who pronounces them alunite.
Well crystallized alunite is not common, and he believed this is the first time its appearance has been noted in North America.
1886.]
281 inch long, the peduncles of course springing from the axils of the upper leaves.
Early in June a second growth occurs, on which are also female flowers.
On many of the stronger a third growth is made before autumn.
The several growths during the season on this tree, have no doubt had much to do with its great size in so short a time.
The involucre is a mass of loose scales, in the centre of which the four blackish ligulate stigmas are seen.
Bisecting the flower vertically, the usually minute calyx segments, immediately beneath the stigmas are represented here by numerous brown scale-like hairs, which simulate the scales of the involucre, and are at the apex of a slender stipe or beak four lines long, that seems to spring from the true ovarium as if it were a true style, and the real pistils represent a four-cleft stigma at the apex.
He did not remember any American species that had so long a beak in this early stage of growth, though there were some species that he had not had an opportunity of dissecting.
From those that he had had the opportunity of examining the differences in this feature were striking, and the character could certainly be made more useful than it had been in enabling us to discriminate species in this very difficult genus.
A horizontal section of the ovarium shows it to be four-celled, with each cell two-ovuled.
1.
Peduncle with flowers, Quercus denfata, natural size 2.
Beak of the ovarium with stigmas enlarged.
3.
Beak of the ovarium with stigmas enlarged, Quercus macfDcarpa.
June 29.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
A paper entitled " Notices of Nematoid Worms," by Dr. Joseph Leidy, was presented for publication.
Mineralogical Notes.
Composition of Stromeyerite.
Professor George A. Kcenig placed on record the identification of Stromeyerite from Zacatecas, Mexico.
At this locality the miners designate the various silver minerals by their colors as black silver, red silver, green silver, and blue silver.
Under the latter name plata azul several minerals are undoubtedly comprehended, but probably the most prevalent is the mineral here identified as Stromeyerite.
One 19 large specimen is composed of numerous prismatic crystals, the terminations broken off sitting on well-crjstallized quartz, and from several smaller specimens it would appear that quartz is the ordinary companion of Stromeyerite at Zacatecas, whilst the other silver minerals Proustite, Polybasite, Stephanite, Argentite are more commonl}^ associated with Calcite.
The faces of the crystals are rough, not admitting close measurements ; the prismatic angle is near r20-119.
The mineral has no cleavage.
Its fracture is uneven to flat subchonchoidal and very splintery.
The lustre is brilliantly metallic and the color iron-gray with a strong bluish purple admixture.
The color of the powder is nearly the same.
It is not sectile, but mild, and has a hardness of 3, 5.
Spec, gravity = 6*2303, made upon 1-623 grams of fragments from several crystals.
Before the blowpipe it melts verj"^ readily to a globule, emitting sulfurdioxide, and changing to a gray globule of silver-copper.
Gives no sublimate on charcoal, nor in open or closed tube, and dissolves in nitric acid to a blue solution, in which hydrochloric acid precipitates flocculent silver chloride.
A preliminary anal3'^sis made with a fragment from one cr3'^stal (02346 gram) gave the result I ; a second analysis made upon the mixed fragments used in the determination of specific gravity (0"5 gr.)
gave the result II.
I. AgCl = 0-1615 ; Cu^S = 0-0958 ; BaSO, = 0-2837.
II.
AgCl = 0-2509; Cu^S = 2105 ; BaSO^ = 0-5758.
I. II.
026 51-66 50-18 32-67 33-69 16-64 15-81 From this we calculate : Insoluble .d.1^ v/U.
o 100-97 99-94 Analysis having been made with twice the quantity of substance and with greater care, deserves alone to be taken as basis for the atomic ratio.
Dividing the percentages by the atomic weights, we obtain : Ag : Cu : S = 0-4661 : 0-5322 : 0-4975 Ag+ Cu : S = 0-9983 : 0-4975 = 2-007 : 1 Hence, 47 Ag^S + 53 Cu^S It is seen that Ag and Cu are not exactly in the ratio 1:1, but very near.
Undoubted Strome3'erite has been described heretofore only from two localities, Schlangenberg, in Siberia, and Rudelstadt, in Silesia, and from the latter place only in crystals.
The analj-ses of the mineral from these places do not give the ratio of 1 : 1 for Ag and Cu either, but a little closer than the present locality of Zacatecas.
Since Ag.^S and Cu.^S may replace each other isomorphically in all proportions without question, we may look upon such a ratio as Stromeyerite demands, 1 : 1 , as quite an exception, owing no doubt to peculiar conditions present at the time of crystallization.
The material for this investigation was obtained from Dr. A. E. Foote, who collected it during his recent visit to Zacatecas and other mineral localities in Mexico.
Christian E. Metzler and Charles H. Marot were elected members.
The following was ordered to be published : NOTES ON THE PASPALI OF LE CONTE'S MONOGRAPH.
BY GEORGE VASEY.
Tlie monograph of U. S. species of the genus Paspalum, by Capt.
(since Major) Le Conte, was published in the Journal de Physique, Paris, vol.
91 (1820).
It contains descriptions of eighteen species.
Through the kindness of Mr. J. H. Redfield, all the Lecontean specimens of Faspalum in the Herbarium of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, have been placed in my hands for examination, and I have given them as careful a revision as I find possible.
The result is expressed in the following notes.
I have to premise that autograph specimens of some of these species are wanting, and of some others are mixed in the sheet with other species, making it doubtful which was the typical plant.
But in most cases the specimens and descriptions enable us satisfactorily to determine the species indicated.
1.
Paspalum praecox, Walter.
The specimen to which Le Conte's ticket is attached is a form of P. Iseve, Mich., not answering, however, to all the characters given, as the sheaths and leaves are not "m7osmmt<s" and the number of spikes is four instead of three.
In the same sheet, however, is another specimen which has hairy leaves and sheaths.
Le Conte evidently thought he was describing the plant of Walter, but the description does not answer for the plant which is now accepted as the P. praecox of Walter, nor does it agree with the description either of Michaux or Elliott.
2.
P. setaceum, Michx.
The ticket bearing this name is in a sheet with another bearing the name of the next species, and the plants are all the common erect hairy form of P. setaceum^ Michx., except one specimen, ticketed P. ciliatifolium, from Georgia, and marked " Baldwin."
Mr.
Le Conte's description answers well to the commonly accepted plant of Michaux, and he gives after his description this reference, " P. setaceum et debile Michaux, Nova Cesarea ad Floridam," with the mark for annual, which latter point is open to doubt.
3.
P. ciliatifolium, Miehx.
As above stated, the ticket for this is in the same sheet with the preceding, and if it has not been changed, must apply to the same plant, as the description does not at all apply to the smooth long-leaved specimen of P. ciliatifolium from Georgia.
Some of the specimens have " spica unica," and some have " spicis 1 sive 2," and some with the usual lateral peduncled ones.
4.
P. longepedunculatum, Le Conte.
The specimen to which this name is attached is commonly referred to P. setaceum, Michx., but is a difterent form from Nos.
2 and 3, more like the southern P. ciliatifolium^ but having the leaves shorter and narrower.
There are several long peduncled lateral spikes which are not mentioned in the description, the name being based on the " very long peduncled common spike."
In Herb.
Scribner is a specimen, collected by Mi\ Isaac Burk, on the ballast grounds of Philadelphia, which is almost exactly like the Le Contean one, and if P. ciliatifolium is considered a species this might be called variety brevifolia.
At the close of his description Le Conte says " P. debile, Muhl.
Gram."
5.
P. Floridanum, Michx.
There are two tickets with this name, one of which is attached to a specimen of P. racemulosum, Nutt., which specimen does not agree with Le Conte's description ; the other is attached to a much smaller plant, very well answering the description of Le Conte but not of Michaux.
The specimen is not different apparently from the one to which Le Conte's ticket " P. prsecox " is attached, which we take to be Paspalum Iseve, Michx., the short broad-leaved form which is perhaps the typical one.
In Herb.
Torrey is a specimen of Paspalum Floridanum with a note, "not of Le Conte, which is P. Iseve.
Ell.
i, p. 106, non Michx.
? "
We see from this note not only that Dr. Torrey referred Le Conte's P. Floridanum to P. Iseve, Ell., but also that he had doubt if Elliott's plant was the same as Michaux's.
6.
P. laeve, Michx.
Le Conte's ticket with this name is loose in a sheet with the preceding, the three specimens being apparently all alike except as to the pubescence of the leaves.
There is also in another sheet a specimen with the ticket attached, which specimen is the form of P. laeve, with long, smooth leaves, not as No.
6 is described with " foliis latiusculis, brevibus."
7.
P. difForme, Le Conte.
The name as printed is " cliflbrme," evidently a tj^pographical error.
The specimen is intermediate between P. laeve and P. Floridanum, and different from either.
Le Conte says, " Refert P. Floridanum sed spicis erectis, glumisque majoribus facile distinguitur."
This comparison was evidently made with his No.
5, which was not the P. Floridanum, Mx.
He also refers Paspalum No.
7 of Muhlenberg's Gram, to this plant, but the description is too obscure to be of any value.
We have specimens in the II.
S. Herbarium from N. C, and from Florida, which are apparently the same as Le Conte's plant.
They have been referred to P. Floridanum, but are clearly different in the smaller size of the plant, in the shorter spikes, and in the much shorter leaves.
We have the same plant, also, from Dr. Charles Mohr, Mobile, Ala., who noted that it differed from the P. Floridanum.
He says P. Floridanum blooms from the middle of June to the middle of July, while the other kind begins to flower six or eight weeks later.
Altogether it seems that for these specimens Le Conte's name should be recognized and added to our list.
8.
P. undulosum, Le Conte.
The specimen over this name is apparently a form of P. laeve, Michx., with wider and smoother leaves, more numerous and shorter spikes than in the common form.
I have seen no other specimens quite matching it, and it may very well be called P. laeve, variety undulosum.
The undulate margin of the leaves is also shared by other species.
Schultes subsequently published this as P. Leconteanum (Mant.
2, 168), probably because Le Conte's name was too much like P. undulatum, Poir.
9.
P. latifolium, Le Conte.
The specimen with this name looks like a very exuberant P. ciliatifolium, with equally small spikelets, but in three or four series.
The leaves are about an inch wide, and eight to ten inches long.
I have seen no other such specimens, but the general appearance and habit is that of P. ciliatifolium, of which it is probably a luxuriant form.
10.
P. virgatum, Walt.
The ticket bearing this name is loose in a s]\eet which contains two specimens of P. plicatulum, Michx., and two specimens of P. praecox, Walt., one of which is ticketed, " Herb.
Schw., P. plicatulum, Georgia, Hermann."
The description seems to refer to what we call P. praecox, Walt., " spicis 5-6, alternis, erectis, glumis biseriatis, rachi latiuscula, non flexuosa, dentibus bifloris."
Le Conte apparently mistook his No.
1 for P. praecox, Walt., and this for P. virgatum, Walt.
The true P. virgatum, Walt., is probably P. purpurascens, Ell.
Le Conte adds to his description this note, " Calicis valvulse omnium paspalorum, cuve semina maturescent juxta margines transversse plicatas fiunt."
If this means that the glumes of all Paspalums when mature have transverse plications such as mark the P. plicatulum, Michx., it is a great error.
11.
P. angustifolium, Le Conte.
The specimen bearing this name is evidently one of the forms commonly called P. laeve, Michx., having long, narrow and smooth leaves, and three slender spikes three to four inches long.
It is quite different from No.
5, which represents a form with much shorter and wider leaves, and which is possibly the typical plant, as Michaux says " foliis breviusculis."
No subsequent writer except Elliott, however, quotes these words of Michaux.
Gray says " the pretty large and long leaves ;" Chapman says " leaves and sheaths smooth or the latter hairy ;" Elliott quotes Michaux's words, " leaves short," but does not recognize the plant.
It is, therefore, difficult to say precisely what was Michaux's type, and some botanists will prefer to consider this species of Le Conte as a distinct one.
Otherwise, it may be distinguished as variety angustifolium.
12.
P. gracile, Le Conte.
The two specimens bearing this name, one ticket marked " Paspalum gracile mihi, P. laeve, Schweinitz," the other " Paspalum tenue, Kth., P. gracile, Le Conte, 'Durand,'" are clearly what is commonly understood as P. plicatulum, Michx., or P. undulatum, Poir.
Kunth published P. tenue, evidently based either on Le Conte's specimens or on the description to which he refers.
If Kunth saw the specimens, and they were the same as these in the Herb.
Acad.
Phil., it is not easy to understand how he should make a new species of them, unless, as may be the fact, Michaux's plant is the P. purpurascens, Elliott, in which case indeed another name would be needed for Le Conte's plant, and as the name P, gracile had been earlier appropriated by Rudge for a S. American plant, Kuuth distinguished this by the name of P. tenue.
An inspection of the Le Contean specimens in the Herb.
Mus.
Paris will probably settle this question.
Kunth, however, refers Michaux's P. plicatulum not only to P. pitrpurascens, Ell., but also to P. undulatuvi, Poir, as if Michaux had confused two species, which is very likely to be the case.
On the other hand, if Kunth saw Le Conte's specimens, and they were like these of the Herb.
Acad.
Phila., he should have recognized them as the P. undulatum, Poir.
Le Conte, at the end of his description of this species, sa3^s, " Muhlenberg Gram, sub Paspalo,No.
8," with the description of which Le Conte's does not agree.
Furthermore, there is in Herb.
Torrey a specimen of Paspalum setaceum, Michx., which is also referred to '' Pasp.
No.
8, Muhl.
Gram.," and which agrees sufficiently well with the description.
i;5.
P. altissimum, Le Conte.
The single specimen to which this name is attached is evidently what is commonly called P. Floridanum, Michx., for which, according to Kunth, the earlier name of P. macrospermum^ Flugge, must be adopted.
Le Conte's specimen has only two spikes, although his description says " spicis 4-5."
The species, however, or some forms of it, often have 4 to 5 spikes.
One form has pubescent leaves or sheathes, and one form is quite glabrous.
Le Conte mistook his No.
5 for P. Floridanum^ Michx.
11.
P. confertum, Le Conte.
The specimen to which this name is attached is evidently P. purpurascens^ Ell.
Mr. Durand recognized this and attached a ticket marked " resembling P. purpurascens, and I believe identical, E. D." On the same sheet is another specimen of the same species, ticketed "P. putyurascens, Ell., Georgia, Dr.
Baldwin."
Kunth gives both P. purpurascens, Ell., and P. confertum, Le Conte, as if they were distinct plants.
Probably he did not see Le Conte's specimens.
15.
P. distichum, Linn.
I find no specimens with a ticket in Le Conte's writing, but there are in a sheet marked P. distichum, specimens noted as coming from Le Conte, and others, Georgia, Baldwin.
The description of Le Coute seems to refer to P. distichum, Linn., but at the end he gives, as a synonym, Digitaria paspalodes, Michx,, which is understood b}^ Elliott and by Dr. Chapman as appl3'ing to Paspaluvi Digitaria, Poir, which seems not to have been known to Le Conte, unless he agreed with Elliott in referring it to the genus Milium^ in which case it would not appear in a revision of Paspalum.
16. p. tristachyum, Le Conte.
The specimen bearing this name is apparently a three-spiked form of P. vaginatum, Swz.
The description also conforms to that species, and Mr.
Le Conte adds the remark, " Refert prius sed primo obtuto facile distinguitur, foliis angustis glaberrimus.
Habitat in subsalsis, Georgia."
Mr. Bentham considers P. vaginatum, Swz., as sj'non^'mous with P. distichum, Linn., but the two are well defined by Le Conte, and I think are clearly distinct, although with poor or imperfect specimens it is not always easy to discriminate.
Although this species commonly has but two spikes, it sometimes occurs with three.
17.
P. membranaceum, W;ilt.
I find no specimen of this species with Le Conte's ticket, but from the description, and the reference to P. vaginatum, Ell., it is pretty clearly the P. Walterianum, Schultes.
18.
P. natans, Le Conte.
I find no specimen with Le Conte's ticket, but from the description and reference to P. mucronatum, MuhL, and the additional notes, it can hardly be doubted that this is the P.Jiuitans, Walt.
(Ceresia Jiuitans, Ell,).
Mr.
Le Conte undoubtedly observed and collected many of the species of Paspalum in Georgia, where he spent many 3'ears of his early life ; he was also acquainted with Baldwin and Elliott.
The latter had already published the earlier numbers of his " Sketch of the Botany of S. Carolina" before the appearance of Le Conte's Monograph, and Elliott is referred to in Le Conte's Paspalum, No.
17.
Reference is several times made to Pursh and Muhlenberg, whose works had been published but a short time.
Michaux described seven species of Paspalum, all of which are referred to by Le Conte.
Muhlenberg describes ten species, including two to which he gave numbers without specific names, and to these Le Conte makes reference, No.
*l under his P. diforme, and No.
8 under his P. gracile, but a comparison of the descriptions does not afford much satisfaction.
Elliott described eleven species of Paspalum, or thirteen, if we include his Milium paspalodes and Ceresia fluitans.
The monograph of Le Conte enumerates eighteen species, of which four or five had not been previously described and m^y be counted new species or varieties.
All these are indigenous to the Atlantic States ; the additional ones of the Southwest had not, probably, been collected at the time of this monograph.
1886.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
291 July 6.
Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the chair.
Seven persons present.
July 13.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Ten persons present.
On Torsion in the Hollyhock, with some observations on crossfertilization.
Mr. Meehan observed that the torsion of the opening flowers of the hollyhock was towards the sun ; but after the expanded flower had become fertilized, and the flower closed for fading, the torsion was in the contrary direction.
The same thing occurred in Hibiscus rosa-sinensis.
He had no opportunity to this date to note the facts in other Malvaceae.^ As a general rule the spiral revolutions of plants are uniform through every stage of growth, at least this is the general teaching of botanists.
Prof. Goodale notes (" Bot.
Text Book," vol.
ii, p. 407), that in the Tropics, some plants twine indifferently from right to left.
If we had given thought to the manner in which secund inflorescence is arranged, we might have seen that the torsion is anything but uniform throughout the same plant, for a secund raceme could only be formed by the twisting of each succeeding flower in an opposite direction.
This alternation of convolution is indeed necessarj' in a branch with a horizontal direction in order that each flower along the spiral should assume an erect attitude.
When a horizontal or geotropic branch assumed an upright position, the inflorescence was necessarily secund.
One might almost infer that secund inflorescence had its origin in geotropic plants which had retained the power of alternate torsion after assuming the erect form.
So little is known of the laws operating in connection with the turning habits of plants and flowers, that every fact is of value, and this one relating to the reversal of the direction in these two malvaceous plants, and probably in others of the same order, must be worth placing on record.
Mr. Meehan farther noted that the hollyhock, notwithstanding its gaudy coloring and general attractions to insects, is a selffertilizer, and that insects I'ather aided than otherwise in this ^ The author has since noted that in Palava flexuosa the flower twists also in the direction of the sun, and in the contrary direction when fading, but in Gallirhcea involucrata the flower is twisted against the sun, when fading as when opening.
self-fertilization.
The flower is strongly proterandrous.
The stamens are mature and shed their pollen co-incident with the expansion of the corolla.
The fasciculus of pistils at this time, have not reached half their growth, and is completely covered hy the stamens, which form a dense mass in the centre of the flower.
During the day, and the one succeeding, humble and honey bees make this crown of stamens their resting-place.
During these two days the pistils have not yet thrust their stigmas above the stamens that crown them.
If now we cut a flower through longitudinally, we shall find that a very large quantity of pollen has fallen down within the bundle of pistils this gathering of pollen being evidently aided by the feet of insects that made a landing-place of the staminal crown.
Up to this time, however, the pistils not having come to maturity, the pollen thrust in among them would have no physiological significance.
But on the morning of the third day, the pistils protrude and are in receptive condition, and they bring up with them large quantities of pollen, so completely covering the surface of each pistil that it would seem almost impossible for any grains of foreign pollen to find any lodgment for effective use ; and though a grain of foreign pollen should get an opportunity to perform its function, it must be evident that the flower's own pollen has the earliest opportunities for usefulness, and must in almost every case be the fertilizing agent.
An interesting note may be here recorded in reference to the power of own-pollen over fertilit}-.
Mr. Darwin in his " Crossand Self-Fertilization," page 141, referring to his single experiment among malvaceous plants.
Hibiscus Africanus^ found a larger number of cx'ossed flowers produced capsules than among the self-fertilizing ones ; but in the case of these evidently selffertilized flowers, no one seemed to fail in producing seed every pistil, indeed, producing a perfectly fertile carpel.
At the end of the third day the flowers closed, twisting in the opposite direction, as already noted.
On Projection of Pollen in the Flowers of Indigof era.
Exhibiting some flowers of Indigofera Dosua, Mr. Meeiian remarked that the peculiar bending back of the carina in the flowers of Indigofera has been long known.
Referring to the whole genus, Don, in the General History of Dichlamydeous Plants, published in 1837, says, " Keel furnished with a subulate spur on both sides, at length usually bending back elastically."
In 1863 Decandolle and Treviranus, in Botanische Zeitung, page 3, refer to this bending back of the keel and say it is not an elastic motion, but simply a falling down on the full development of the flower ; and the latter remarks, as quoted by Henslow, that " all these movements occur in the natural development of the parts, and only after self-fecundation takes place."
Dr. Hildebrand, in the same magazine for 1866, seems to admit that finally the keel will fall dow from sheer maturity, but thinks insects in the search for honey may anticipate this natural development.
The Rev.
Geo.
Henslow, in the ix vol.
(1868) of the Journal of the Linnsean Society^ pfige 357, commenting on these statements, suggests that though self-impregnation ma}^ be possible, the jerkings of the stamens when the carina falls away, causes the pollen to scatter over the insects, which then carry the pollen to other flowers.
In the X vol.
(1869), p. 468, he notes that when the carina is liberated it falls back with a jerk, as noted by Don, and that the stamens fly up and closely press the vexillum.
But no opportunity occurred to him of observing what insects effected this process which he accomplished artificially.
In Mr. Meehan's grounds the East Indian Indigofera Dosiia is a hardy shrub, and for the past two years, he said, he had watched the behavior of the flowers, and the insects that visited them.
The carina is arched and hooded, and extends so far over the apex of the stigma, against which it presses, that both the stigma and column of stamens are borne down to a right angle with the vexillum.
The effort of the stamens and pistil to rise, and of the carina to recurve, keeps these portions in an exactly horizontal position.
The anthers burst while thus enclosed in the carina, but the pollen does not escape, nor does it reach the stigma, for the pistil extends beyond the anthers, and its apex is pressed strongly against tlie carina, and no pollen can possibly reach the apex.
The two wings of the flower are caught in the subulate spurs, and are borne down to the horizontal plane with the carina, and together form a level platform on which insects in search of honey alight.
Humblebees, hone3''-bees, and numerous species of sand wasps visit the flowers, but in no instance was an insect's visit found to be effectual in liberating the stamens and pistil from the gi'asp of the carina.
This was only accomplished by slitting the upper portion of the carina with a penknife.
Then the divided carina would instantaneously fall back, and the stamens and pistil jerk upwards, scattering a little cloud of pollen in every direction.
In some cases pollen so scattered would light on a stigma, but in many cases the pollen would be so completely projected that none could be ti'aced to the stigma, and these probably received pollen from the upper flowers where they in turn projected their pollen.
Possibly many were by this time too mature to profit by the pollen they received, at any rate only a very small proportion of the flowers matured seed vessels.
In the older flowers, the carina evidently became separated from the stamens and pistil only when withering away.
Mr. Meehan remai'ked in conclusion, that, as noted by authors quoted, so far as his observations in this part of the world (Philadelphia) with this single species goes, the behavior of the flowers were neither favorable to self-fertilization nor crossfertilization.
If insects had pollen scattered on them, there is no way by which it could be communicated to the pistils of other flowers.
The stamens were not liberated naturally till the flower had lost all attractions for insects, and the act of liberating and scattering the pollen gave the pistil its first chance for pollinization.
The great probability is that in the majoiity of instances the flowers are self-fertilized.
On rarallelism in Distinct Lines of Evolution.
Exhibiting some oak and chestnut leaves, Mr. Meehan remarked that the fact and the theory of evolution are distinct lines of thought.
There seems no difficulty about the fact.
That one form may and has been born of a pre-existing, and often very distinct form, cannot be disputed.
What induces this change is another matter.
It is here that science desires more light.
A popular belief is that change of circumstances leads to change of form.
This theory is embodied under the word " environment."
In other words, plants, in their changes, are the " creatures of circumstances."
In some sense .this must be true.
A seed will not sprout unless there be a necessary " environment " of heat and moisture, but this is not the sense in which " environment," as the term is here used, is generally'understood.
If one were to say that under a torrid temperature, endured for ages, a light-skinned, fair-haired Caucasian, might have descendents that were like woolly-headed, dark-skinned negroes, it would come nearer the general understanding of the term " environment," than some would limit it to.
The speaker's observations and studies had led him to what might, perhaps, be regarded as the minority view.
Circumstances " environment " seemed to have no further influence than to incite to action a change already ripe for development.
In a paper read before the Amet'ican Association for the Advancement of Science, 1874 (See Proceedings Hartford Meeting, p. 6, Natural History), he presented a number of facts to show that "change by gradual modification is not the universal law."
New forms "jumped " into existence, and frequently these new forms were diverse from each other, under precisel}^ the same " environment " so far as human knowledge had j-et reached, as had been the surrounding circumstances of the parent form.
Since that time he had contributed numerous observations to the Proceedings of the Academy and elsewhere, confirming these views.
To-night he would offer to the Academy some thoughts in a new line, but confirmatory of the same views.
He exhibited some different forms of the American Quercus Prinus the chestnut oaks, and a dwarf species from China, Quercus Chinensis of Bunge.
Also some specimens of various forms of Castanea Vesca the chestnut, and of Castanea pumila, 3Ix., the chinquapin.
It would be conceded by any evolutionist conversant with plant forms, that the chestnut and the oak are not remotely descended from the same parent.
We may suppose, for the sake of argument, that " use or disuse," or some other item in the general catalogue of " environment " had affected some portion of the structure of the original parent, and resulted in a slight modification, leading towards an ultimate oak or a chestnut, as the case may have been.
But when we take the subsequent changes the evolution of the species of oak, and the species of chestnut, each class from its primordial oak or chestnut, and observe the same parallel lines of change in each, it is difficult to conceive how this exact parallelism could have come about except under a fixed law of change, which provides that when changes occur they shall be in strict accordance with a prior plan by which nature herself is bound laws by which, if we could only ascertain them, we could ourselves foresee and define the forms that are yet to be a thousand years beyond our time, and which no mere accidents of environment could alter or delay.
The oaks exhibited, though when we have the fruit we can see they are oaks, have the foliage so like the chestnut that it is difficult to determine them.
The dwarf species from China is so nearly like a chestnut, that only by the absence of the setaceous teeth that edge the chestnut leaf, can we see any difference.
But the leaves are of a thicker texture than the other chestnut oaks the serratures are finer and closer together, and the undersurface of the leaf is cinereous, while the chestnut oaks exhibited in comparison are of the same tint on both sides.
Now we take the chestnuts.
We have the larger growing species as we have the larger growing chestnut oaks the leaves are light green on both sides, and vary in the toothing, just as the chestnut oaks do variation in each class is exactly parallel.
The parallelism extends to the formation of a dwarf species.
We have a dwarf chestnut, Castanea pumila,]nst as we have a dwarf chestnut oak, Quercus chinensis, and the parallelism extends to the sub-characters, for the dwarf chestnut, the chinquapin, has leaves of a thicker texture, the serratures are finer, and the undersurface of the leaf is cinereous, while the chestnuts exhibited are of the same tint on both sides.
Mr. Meehan finally remarked that the facts seemed to him stronger arguments in favor of evolution than many usually offered.
That the changes in two very distinct genera that we only assumed to be syngenital, should be so nearly of a parallel character in each, is proof they were carrying out a plan originally common to both.
While the fact that these original provisions, as we must regard them, for these special forms have been so faithfully carried out the one on the American continent, the other in Eastern Asia despite the varying conditions of mere " environment," shows how light a factor external circumstances are in the evolution of forms.
July 20.
Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
July 27.
Dr. J. Bernard Brinton in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
A paper entitled " Histor}and Biologyof Pear Blight," by J. C. Arthur, was presented for publication.
August 3.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan.
Yice-President, in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
Oriskany Sandstone in Lycoming Co., Pa. Mr. Lewis Woolman remarked that, accompanied by a resident of Lycoming Co., Pa., he had recently made a tour through that and the adjoining county of Sullivan', with an eye to the geological features of the resion, using as a guide the most recent publications of the Second Survey.
In" Hand Atlas X, the Oriskany formation is omitted from the map of Lycoming County, while the text speaks of it as " being absent."'
It is also omitted from the larger map accompanying'the Second Survey.
He was, therefore, surprised to find on the roadside, at the village of Pennsville.
Mimcy Township, blocks of the sandstone, containing its characteristic fossils.
Further examination resulted in finding a belt of this formation ; not.
however, making the bold, elevated ridge it so often does elsewhere in the State, but existing as a prominence upon the lower slope of the hill that rises from the north side of the village, the ascent beyond being over the lower members of the Hamilton group.
Time at command being limited, the formation was traced only about a mile, but without finding it to disappear.
The Friends' meeting house at one end of the village, and the schoolhouse at the other end, both stand upon this ridge.
The former has its comers pointed with this sandstone, from an old quarry in sight, while all around the latter are strewn weatherworn fragments, beautifully exhibiting the fossils.
Several of the houses and barns intermediate are also situated upon this formation, and for some of these it has furnished building material.
The location of the belt is within the area shown on the maps as Hamilton, and a few hundred feet from the division there marked as separating that group from the Lower Helderberg.
Along the lawn leading to the country residence of William EUicott, the rock was seen in place, pointing upward over the anticlinal forming Bald Eagle Mountain.
A letter from his companion states that he has since found this rock upon the other side of the mountain, in Clinton township.
Upon careful comparison of fossils in fragments brought home, the following were identified as exactly agreeing with those figured by Hall, from the Oriskany of New York, viz.
: Spirifer arenosus, Spirifer arrectus and Bensselaeria ovoides.
August 10.
Mr. Tiios.
Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
Notes on Lilium tigrinum, Gaul.
Mr. Meehan remarked that on the Tth of August he was attracted by the large number of honey bees (Italian) among the flowers of Lilium tigrinum.
There were hundreds of flowers, and every flower had from one to six bees in them.
They were not coming and going with the usual expedition of honey-seeking or pollen-collecting workers, but were taking things leisurely, as when feasting on a ripe peach, or some other soft, sweet, and spongy fruit.
It was found that they were feeding or sucking the juices from the papillae that form a ridge at the base of each division of the perianth.
These papillje are very numerous, minute and transparent, under a lens resembling ice crystals.
They are formed in two lines, but approximate till they resemble a single gray line, extending from the base upwards for an inch in the centre of the segment.
Several sj^ecies of butterflies notably some large Papilios, and some smaller Eudasmias, were sharing the repast with the bees.
An examination showed that the papillse had been pretty well " chewed " up the term " chewing " being used notwithstanding the seeming impossibility from the structure of the bee's mouth, that it 'can chew in the ordinary acceptatioii of the term.
A quantity of this papillose matter, gathered together on the point of a penknife, did not indicate any sweetness, or anything beyond moisture that would be popularly supposed to prove attractive to bees.
Inside a flower just ready to expand, a considerable amount of moisture is excreted from the surface of the perianth.
In this liquid no sweetness, but some slight astringency could be detected.
Not even at the base, where in flowers nectar is usually secreted, could any sweetness be detected.
It has been broadly stated that color and fragrance are of use to flowers only as they may serve to attract insects for purposes of poUinization ; and that gaudy flowers have no fragrance.
But some gaudy lilies are very sweet, and here we have a gaudy flowered species that seems to have nothing in the way of sweets after an insect has been attracted.
Though feasting on the cellular matter, the bees in no way assist in pollination.
It is difficult to imagine what relation the bees can have to any good economy in plant life in this instance.
The plant produces no fruit in this part of the 20 world ; but this is evidently from some failure of nutrition, for when it is served with its own pollen, or the pollen of other plants or other species, it is alike barren.
At pages 412, 413 in the Proceedings of the Academy for IStS, he had called attention to the fact that in many species of lily, where the flower is cernuous, the point of bending straightened after fertilization; and the ovarium, pendulous in flower, became erect.
There are some in which the flowers are always erect, and they seem to be just as successful in their several economies, as those that are at first cernuous, and afterward erect.
At that time, with this reflection, it seemed to him reasonable to suppose that the bending down of the flowers in some species was not a matter of choice with the flower if one might metaphorically use this expression but was the result of a curving of the stem made for some other reason in plant economy than for good to the flower or its special objects alone.
But here were some specimens of Lilium tigrinum that had blown over when young.
The pedicles from these stems went straight down towards the earth and bore the expanded flower without the slightest curve.
The flowers on the erect stems are all on recurved pedicels.
Though we are still without light as to what advantage the recurved forms gain over the erect ones, this little incident teaches us, at least, that it is the flower that demands the curve, and not a case of a curve demanding a pendulous flower.
Fishing Lines and Ligatures from the Silk-glands of Lepidopterous Larvae.
A communication was received from Miss Adele M. Fielde, stating that in the locality from which she wrote, Swatow, China, the silk-glands are taken from the larvjie of several species of large lepidopterous insects just before tiiey enter the pupa stage, and are made into fishing lines.
At this period in the life-history of the insect, the glands are full of the viscid white substance from which the cocoon is to be spun.
The silk-glands of a species of Atlas were found to be one yard long, a tenth of an inch in diameter at the free, posterior end, and a hundredth of an inch in diameter at its anterior end.
The two glands extend nearly the whole length of the body cavity, on either side of the alimentary canal, lying in loops of varying length, and uniting in a single duct under the mouth, as in the silk-worm, Bomhyx mori.
The Cliinese make a transverse cut across the back of the caterpillar, take hold of one of the loops of the silk-gland, draw it out entire, drop it in vinegar to take off its external coat, then stretch it to double or treble its original length, and dry it.
A durable filament is thus formed, strong as catgut, and much cheaper.
The tenacit}' of the filament is constantly restored by soaking it for a few minutes in warm rice-water, that is, in the water in whicli rice has been boiled for food.
The fishermen say that when thus prepared a line will hold the largest fish taken on the coast.
It was found, however, that a single filament would not sustain more than four and a half pounds.
Dr. Causland, in charge of the Hospital in the English Presbyterian Mission at Swatow, had successfully used these filaments for tying arteries in surgical operations.
It was suggested that the cocoon-spinning lepidoptera of the United States might furnish in their silk-glands, for the joining of wounds, a thread which would have all the virtues of spun silk, without its objectionable traits.
Silk-worms have been successfully reared in the neighborhood of Swatow, on lettuce, the silk from such caterpillars being coarser than that from those fed on mulberry leaves.
August It.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twelve persons present.
On the Effect of Scorpion Stings.
The following communication was read from Mr. Edw.
H. Thompson, United States Consul at Merida, Province of Yucatan : " I am advised of an interesting letter from Dr. Gonzalez, of Durango, read by Dr. Leidy before the Academy, in which mention was made of the extremely venomous character of the Mexican Scorpion. "
I would state that while many cases of scorpion stings have occurred within the range of my personal observation, I have yet to record one that has even approached a fatal termination.
During the month of January last, while exploring some of the ruined cities of the interior, two of my men, native Mayas, were stung by scorpions dislodged from the ruined walls, one receiving a sting upon his shoulder, while the other was punctured directly upon his naked back, and very close to the spine. "
The man receiving the sting upon his shoulder was soon relieved by a few applications of strong ammonia.
The other complained for some time of a numbness almost approaching paralysis.
This feeling, however, was not sufficient to prevent him from keeping upon his horse.
After I had applied the ammonia, and when at the end of a hard day's ride we dismounted, he had practically recovered. "
Of thirteen cases noted by me within a short while, but two were of a serious nature.
One was the case of my native boy, and the other was that of a young Englishman who, stung upon the thumb, remained in an almost paralyzed state for several hours, eventually recovering.
It may be well to state, in relation 300 rROCEEDINQS OF TIIE ACADEMY OP [1886. to this case, that the 3"0ung man had been in the country but a short while, and was at the time exhibiting the phj^sical effects of such a radical change of climate. "
In making the above statements I do not wish it to be understood that I impugn the truth of the statements of Dr. Gonzalez.
Durango and Yucatan are two States in the Mexican Republic widely separate, and circumstances governing as facts in the one may not so govern in the other."
Tlie Form of the Pupil in Snakes.
Mr. Lockington stated that amongst the colubriform snakes, the Boidje, a familj^ which has its headquarters in South America, and has representatives in the West of this country, have elliptical vertical pupils, like those of rattlesnakes.
At least, this is the case with Boa constrictor^ B. eqiies, Eunectes muriniis (the anaconda), Xijjhosoma caninum, and Xomolochirus multisectus.
The Acrochordidse, or wart-snakes of eastern Asia, have circular pupils.
The venomous snakes with fixed fangs are usualh' classed in three families : Elapidse, Naiidse, or cobras, and Hydrophidse, or seasnakes.
Some herpetologists unite the first two families.
As far as the shape of the pupil goes, they seem to agree.
Naja tripudians, the cobra, Naja haje, the African asp, Pseudechis porphyriacus, Sipedon haemachates, have circular pupils, as well as the species of Bungarus and Elaps.
The sea-snakes, so far as examined, have circular pupils.
This is the case with the common and well-known Pelamys bicolor, with Hydrophis palamidoides, H. gracilis, H. nigrocinctus, Disteira dumerilii, and Platurus fasciatus.
Among the snakes with movable fangs, the Crotalidse (rattlesnakes), and among the Yiperidse, examples of the genera Clothe^ Pelias, Vipera and Cerastes, have elliptical pupils, but Causus rhombeatus (Causidse) has rounded ones.
It is thus evident that the form of the pupil has no relation to the venomous or nonvenomous character of the snake.
August 24.
Mr. Thos.
Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair.
Nine persons present.
A paper entitled " On the Fertilization of Cassia Marylandica," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication.
The death of Wm.
R. Cruice, M. D., a member, August 15, 1886, was announced.
August 31.
The President, Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in tlie chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The death of Roger Sherman, a member, was announced.
C. L. Kilburn was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed : REVERSE VISION.
BY CHARLES MORRIS.
The fact that we perceive objects in their correct position, while their impression upon the retina is a reversed one, forms a problem which has given rise to much speculation, often unprofitably metaphysical, in the effort to explain it.
None of these theories of the older writers now remain current.
More modern authors give explanations which are little more satisfactory.
Giraud Teulon says : " The retina sees or localizes objects where they are; that is what we call ' erect;' if the picture be reversed it is a mere matter of geometry."
Helmholtz says: "Our natural consciousness is completely ignorant even of the existence of the retina and of the formation of images ; how should it know anything of the position of images formed upon it ? "
It cannot be claimed that these remarks are explanations, and we may proceed to the more elaborate theory advanced by LeConte, in his work on " Sight."
He remarks that " the retinal image impresses the retina in a definite way.
This impression is then conveyed by the optic nerve to the brain, and determines changes there.
.
.
.
And then the brain or the mind refers or projects the impression outward into space as an external image, the sign or facsimile of an object producing it."
He proceeds: "The law may be thus stated : When the rays from any radiant strike the retina, the impression is referred back along the ray line {central ray of the pencil) into space, and therefore to its proper placed It cannot be said that his arguments are suflSicient to establish this theory.
That we mentally refer an impression to the nerve extremity that received it is unquestionable, and where a limb has been lost, impressions seem to be referred to the location of the original nerve termination.
But this is very probably a result of long-continued hereditary influences, through which each nerve becomes adapted to give a mental picture of the location of its impressions, and continues to do so even if touched at some intermediate point.
In the case of sight, no localized reference to the nerve extremity exists.
In this sense the source of our impression seems external to the body.
And yet this is in all probability equally a result of hereditary accommodation.
What we really perceive is the impression produced upon the retina, which is transmitted by the optic nerve to the brain.
The theory that the brain o.r mind, by some secondary action, physically refers this sensation back again to the nerve extremities, or even projects it beyond them into space, along reversed lines, has no warrant in known physiological facts.
Far more probably the seeming projection is a mental action only.
Natural selection may have adapted each nerve to yield a sense of the distance and direction of its impressions and, therefore, of their external location.
An animal destitute of such sense would be unable to estimate the exact point of a threatened danger, and only those capable of localizing their sense impressions could survive.
Yet if the brain estimates the distance from which any sensation comes only through conditions hereditarily existing in the transmitting nerve, the idea of referred sensations, with all theories based upon it, falls to the ground.
The reference of a pain to the natural location of an amputated foot would form a constituent portion of the impression conveyed to the brain by the nerve which formerly passed to that foot.
In like manner the optic nerve may, among its hereditaril3'-gained powers, have that of refei'ring its impressions to a point beyond the nerve extremity or in external space, the locality from which danger from visible objects comes.
But this would have no bearing upon the question of the character of its impression, the retinal image as a whole being mentally transferred to an external region, but in no sense changed in character.
The question seems to be solely one of a certain power or strength possessed by the nerves, through which each of them indicates that location of its impressions best adapted to the efficiency of protective activity.
In the case of sight this distance would necessarily be beyond the actual position of the retina, and external to the body.
The same rule holds good in the case of sound.
In every case it is very probably a resultant of long-continued natural selection.
We do not actually see objects.
We simply perceive the images of them which are impressed upon the retina.
This stands as a picture-plane between our mind and the universe.
We perceive the impressions with which it is affected incorrectly, if this affection is in any sense an incorrect one.
But the conception gained from these impressions is subject to mental accommodations, the result of experience and of hereditary influences ; and wc may, therefore, gain a correct idea from au impression -which is physically incorrect.
Though the retinal image seems to be referred by the optic nerve to a position external to the eye, j^et it is certainly not exactly located by the sense of sight, and the mental accommodations above mentioned are the locating influences.
It is said that to a blind man suddenly restored to sight, the surrounding objects seem like the details of a picture, and within easy reach.
He appears to see the retinal picture, somewhat projected, but with no correction except that the reversal of the image does not appear.
Our perception of roundness or solidity is, then, a result of experience.
This is followed by a knowledge of relative distance, comparative location being one of the most apparent relations between objects.
But the actual distance of objects which are somewhat removed from the body is learned by experience, aided by several of the senses.
Of more distant objects, we seldom properly estimate the actual distance.
All this, however, is a result of the action of the reasoning powers, guided by the senses.
The evidence of the blind man assures us that what we actually see is the retinal image, somewhat projected into space, and differing from an ordinary picture mainly in that it is perfect in its lights and shades, and thus forcibly tends to produce that illusion of solidity which is the effect sought in all pictures.
The only correction is that of the reversal of the image.
This correction, therefore, seems a natural one, inherent in the sense or the mind.
In attempting an explanation of this phenomenon, in view of the considerations above taken, the question may be asked : In what way can the mind discover that there is anything incorrect in the direction of the retinal image?
To do so it must have some standard of direction with which the impressions upon the retina can be compared, and their agreement or disagreement observed.
If there be any such standard, it must exist in one of three locations : on the retina itself, in external nature, or in the mind.
If on the retina, it could only be some line, or group of lines, apparent to sight, and serving as directive guides with which to compare retinal impressions.
It need not be said that nothing of the kind exists.
The standard of comparison, therefore, by whose aid alone we can discover that the retinal image is reversed, if it exists.
must do so either in the mind or in external nature.
If it be internal, it must be of the nature of an idea an innate sense of absolute direction, a mental power by which we can at once distinguish the truth or falsity of any apparent direction.
That we have any such idea of the absolute, is in itself highly improbable.
It may, in fact, be readily disproved.
We are aware that the revolution of the earth on its axis reverses the absolute direction of all the objects upon its surface every twelve hours.
And yet this reversal is not perceptible to us.
The direction of all objects, as related to that of our bodies, remains unchanged, and this relation is all that we perceive.
Indeed, we must have remained forever ignorant of the revolution of the earth but from the fact that the spheres of space do not revolve with it.
These retain their positions in space, while those of all objects upon the earth change.
They, therefore, serve us as standards of comparison by whose aid we intellectually discover the earth's motion.
We never become sensibly aware of it, for the only motion apparent to us is that of the spheres of space.
We impute motion to objects at rest, and rest to objects in motion.
This error could not arise, had we any innate idea of absolute direction, or an internal standard of comparison.
Therefore the mind in itself is incapable of perceiving that there has been a reversal of the retinal image.
It has no faculty of deciding on questions of direction, and what is relatively correct is absolutely correct to its perceptive powers.
If we have no internal or retinal standard of direction, have we any external one ?
No object upon the earth's surface will serve this purpose.
The images of all objects alike are reversed upon the retina.
The same is the case in regard to the spheres of space.
They do not retain their true positions in this case, as in the former case considered, but are reversed in direction, and the whole universe is turned upside down by the crystalline lens of the eye, and is perceived by the mind thus reversed.
Though nothing is absolutely correct, everything is relatively correct in direction, and we have no guide to teach us that such a reversal has taken place.
The fact is that in this, as in the other case, we involuntarily take our body as the measuring rod of the universe.
Distance is at first estimated by the length of the arm, dimension by the spread of the fingers and the sweep of the arm, and direction by that of the body.
Our knowledge that the retinal image is reversed is not gained by perception, but by our study of the laws of optics.
We conceive of a picture upon the retina whose direction is reverse to that of tlie body, and are puzzled to understand why the mind does not perceive it thus reversed.
In this we are comparing sensations with ideas.
The image of the body is also reversed upon the retina, and thus its direction, as optically recognized, agrees with that of all other objects.
Our accepted standard of direction therefore fails us in this particular.
The universe, as perceived by the mind through the medium of the e^^e, is relatively in harmony in all its particulars of direction and position, and unless the mind had some innate conception of absolute direction, it would be impossible for it to discover that a reversal of the image had taken place.
We have already shown that it has no such innate ideasof direction, and is entirely dependent upon its perceptions in this particular.
The body, our accepted standard of direction, is perceived to be erect as compared with our perception of the earth's surface.
All other objects upon this surface bear the same relation to it, and we have no means of discovering that we are optically deceived, except by a secondary process of reasoning, based upon the laws of optics.
No tree, for instance, could seem to us upside down unless the earth's surface seemed upside down, which is impossible.
The mystery in which this question has been so long involved, therefore, vanishes when considered from this point of view.
The mind fails to discover that its optical image is reversed simpl}' from the fact that this reversal includes all things, nothing retaining its erect position to serve as a standard of comparison, and from the second fact that the mind has no innate idea of direction to make it aware of its error.
There is no error in our perception.
Relatively it is in ever}particular correct, and of the absolute we have no knowledge except through the process of reasoning.^ ^ Since forming these theoretical views, the writer has become aware that the same theory has been previously presented.
Dr. William Mackenzie "Physiology of Vision," London, 1841 says: "In the image on the retina, the relative position of the parts of the object remain unchanged, as well as its relations to surrounding objects.
The images of all objects, even those of our own bodies, are equally inverted on the retina, and therefore maintain the same relative position.
Even the image of our hand, while used in touch, is inverted.
Hence, the notion is evidently absurd, that infants at first see objects upside down, and learn to see things in their proper positions, by comparing the erroneous information acquired by sight with the accurate information acquired by touch.
Many of the lower animals manifest a perception of the true position of objects by means of the sense of sight from the very first, and before any experience derivable from touch can have had time to operate.
To some philosophers, then, there appears no difiiculty respecting erect vision, so long as all things equally, and not some objects only, are seen by means of impressions coincident with inverted images."
He further says : "The mind neither views the images on the retina, nor is in any way conscious of their existence."
This theory is so identical with the one we have given, as to render the latter, in a considerable sense, a repetition.
Yet Mackenzie's views do not seem well known, and are worth restating.
Moreover, his theory is far from being fully argued out, and no theoretical views can be held as in any sense substantiated until they have been shown to be logically defensible.
This we have attempted to do.
The hypothesis we have given of the principle through which nerve impressions are mentally localized in position has, we believe, not been previously advanced, but is here first presented.
NOTICES OF NEMATOID WORMS.
BY PROF. JOSEPH LEIDY.
Filaria scapiceps.
Body cylindrical, nearly equally tapering at the ends.
Cephalic extremity abruptly narrowing, cylindric, rounded at the summit and smooth.
Mouth a terminal pore without labia, papillfe or inner armature.
Caudal extremity of female nearly straight, conical, obtusely rounded, smooth, without appendages ; of the male curved, Side view of the caudal extremity of conical, obtusely rounded alatc and the male.
125 diameters.
papillate ; alse half oval ; papillae five pairs, pyriform, successively decreasing to the last at the end of the tail.
Genital aperture opening between the anteand penultimate papillae ; penal spicules short, curved.
Female 25 to 30 mm.
long; 0*75 wide at middle; head O'ltS wide.
Male 12 mm.
long ; 0-'6lb wide at middle.
Eight females and five males were obtained from beneath the skin of the hind foot of a rabbit, Lepus sylvaticus.
Filaria obtunsa.
Body cylindrical, nearly uniform ; head conical, obtusely rounded, or rounded truncate, smooth ; mouth a minute central pore, devoid of lips, papillje, or internal armature ; caudal end of female straight, conical, obtusely rounded, devoid of papillse ; of male abruptly narrowed, a length about equal to the breadth of the body, nipple-shaped, obtusely rounded and devoid of papillte.
Female genital aperture near the head end.
Male aperture terminal ; penis of a longer curved spicule and a spiral one of half the leligth.
Female 4 inches or more long, 0*625 mm.
wide.
Male 2 inches long, 0*5 mm.
wide.
Abundant in the visceral cavity of the snow bird, Junco kyemalis.^= Filaria obtusa, Leidy, Pr.
A. N. S., 1885, 10.
In the meadow lark, Sturnella magna.
= F. obtusa.
Ibidem.
Chester Co., Pa.
Obtained by Dr. B. H. Warren.
Many specimens from the visceral cavity of the meadow lark in the collection of the Army Medical Museum, Washington.
Female from 4^ to 1| inches long, mostly to 6 inches ; width 0-625 mm.
Male 2^ to 3^ inches.
Four females and a male from the crow black bird, Quiscahis purpureus.
They are proportionately more robust than the preceding.
Female 4 inches long and 0-875 wide.
Male 1\ inches long and 0-5 mm.
wide.
Florida, Dr. B. H. Warren.
I at first viewed this species as the Filaria obtusa, Rudolphi (Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, 267).
The caudal extremity of the male, with its penal armature, accords with Dujardin's figure of that species (Hclminthes, Pt.
iii, fig.
i, 2).
In F. obtiinsa I can detect no buccal armature such as exists in F. obtufia, according to Dujardin ; and later, Molin (Yersuch einer Monographic der Filarien, Sitzungsb.
Wien.
Akad.
Wis., 1858, 397).
Filaria cirrura.
Body c^dindrical, nearly equal, cephalic end conical, rounded truncate, smooth ; mouth a m^inute funnel-like orifice without papillae or interior armature ; caudal end of female slightly curved or nearl}' straight, conical, obtusely rounded, without appendages ; of male closely rolled inward, conical, blunt, without alse or papillae ; penal spiculae strongly curved, with the points projecting from the prominent genital aperture situated above the tail end.
Length of female 16 mm., breadth 0*5 mm.
Length of male 10 mm., breadth 0-375 mm.
Four females and two males from the orbit of the jackdaw, Quiscahis major.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
Filaria nodulosa.
Rudolphi.
Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, 274.
Body cylindrical, nearly uniform, slightly more narrowed behind ; head conical, obtusely rounded, with a circle of minute tubercles.
Caudal extremity of the female straight, conical, obtuse ; of the male slightly curved, obtuse ; genital aperture a little in advance of the tail end ; penal spicules short, curved.
Female 3 inches long, 1 mm.
wide.
Male 1^ inches long, 0*5 mm.
wide.
One of each sex from beneath the skin of the head and neck of a shrike, Collurio ludovicianus.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
Filaria stigmatura.
Body filiform, nearly uniform c^dindrical, but attenuated at the cephalic extremity ; head rounded truncate, smooth ; mouth large, bordered by two or three ?
minute, conical papillae, unarmed within ; integument smooth throughout, not annulate.
Female : caudal extremity straight, smooth ; tail straight or sliglitly bent back from tlie distinct anal aperture, conical, blunt.
Male : caudal extremity spirally enrolled two or three times, furnished with narrow band-like granular alae sustained by twelve pairs of ribs or cylindroid papillae, of which seven pair are preanal ; tail curved conical, subacute ; penal spicules, one four times the length of the other.
Length of female 40 to 55 mm., breadth 0-5 mm.
; tail 0-3 long.
Length of male 24 to 30 mm.
; breadth 0.3Y5 mm.
; tail 0-25 from genital aperture.
Long penal spicule 0*88 mm.
; short one 0-2 mm.
Pharynx cylindrical, 0-25 mm.
long; oesophagus cylindrical, slightly expanded at lower end, 3 mm.
long ; intestine nearly same diameter.
Eggs thick shelled, oval, 0*04 long, 0*024 broad.
A multitude of individuals obtained from the swimming bladder of the lake trout, Salvelinus namaycuah.
Lake Superior.
Dr. James H. Bissel.
The species bears considerable resemblance to Ancyracanthus cystidicola (Rud, Schneider, Mon.
d. Nematodon, 105), from a like position of Salmo furio of Europe, but it possesses distinct characters even generic.
It also resembles Filaria denticulata (lb.
102), but is devoid of the tegumentary spines and other characteristic marks of that species.
Filaria helecina.
Molin, Sitzungsb.
Wien.
Akad.
Wiss., lSo8, xxviii, 391.
Filaria aiihiufjir.
AVyman, Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 1868, 100.
Enstroniji/li(s. Packard, Hayden's Rep. U. S. Geol.
Surv., 1873, 735.
Filaria Wymani.
Leidy, Proc.
A. N. S., 1882, 109.
Numerous additional specimens from the brain of a dozen individuals of Plotus anhinga.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warien.
Trichosomum tenuissimum.
Diesing, Syst.
Helm., ii, 256.
Body cylindrical, obtuse at both ends, viviparous.
Four females, 1 lines long by 0*25 mm.
thick.
Intestine of the dove, Zenaidura carolinensis.
From two birds.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
?
Monopetalonema eremita.
Body cylindrical, slightly narrowest anteriorly ; head with an annular expansion of the integument, which is more dilated below ; mouth with a pair of half-conical lips, divided into four papillae at the apex ; tail short, straight, conical, obtuse.
A single female 19 lines long and nearly 1 line thick at the middle.
Obtained by Dr. J.
Van A. Carter, from the masseter muscle of a badger, Melea labradorica, at Ft. Bridger, Wj'oming.
The head and mouth have the characters of Physaloptera.
Two apertures are visible in advance of the end of the tail, one at the distance of 025 mm., the othei0"625 mm.
Ascaris simplex.
Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst Ilel., ii, 155.
A large quantity, from the stomach of a dolphin, Lagenorhynchus?
Pacific ocean.
Dr. Wm.
H. Jones, U. S. N. Ascaris compar.
Schrank, Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, 170.
One male.
If inches long.
Intestine of the quail, Ortyx virginianus.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
Ascaris vesicularis.
FroliHeh, Diesing, Syst.
Hel.
ii, 118.
Two females and two males.
Intestine of the quail, Ortyx virginianus.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
Ascaris depressa.
Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, 156.
Intestine of Strix nivea, Leidy, Pr.
A. N. S, 1858, 112.
Two females 2^ inches by 3 mm.
Intestine of Sirix brachyotiis.
Florida.
One female 1| inches.
Bubo virginianus.
Chester Co., Pa. Dr. B. H. Warren.
Ascaris ensicaudata.
RuJolphi, Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, 184.
Labia large and prominent ; apex of tail defined as a short ensiform appendage.
Five females, to 3 inches long, by 1 mm.
broad.
Ejected from the mouth of a mocking bird, Mimus polyglottus.
Jacob Geismer.
Ascaris microcephala.
Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst.
He!., ii, 155.
Numerous specimens from the stomach of the night-heron, Nyctiardea grisea.
Chester Co., Pa. G. W. Roberts, through Dr. B. H. Warren.
Specimens from Ardea herodias, Hydronassa tricolor and Botaurus mugitans.
Florida.
Dr. Warren.
Ascaris spiculigera.
Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, 157.
From Graculus dilophus, Plotus anhinga, Pelicanus trachyrhynchus and P. fuscus.
Leidy, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 1858, 110; 1882,109.
Numerous additional specimens from the former two birds.
Florida.
Dr. B. H. Warren.
Ascaris tenuicollis.
Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst.
Hel., ii, llJO.
Numerous specimens, all females, up to 1^ inches long, and 2 mm.
thick.
From the Alligator mississippiensis.
312 rROCEEDiNas of the academy of [1886.
Asoaris auoura.
Dujardin, Diesing, Syst.
ITel., ii, 161.
Numerous females, 3 and 4 inches long to 2 mm.
thick.
These were all suspended in the stomacli, through double apertures of the mucous membrane, and thus tightl}^ retained in position.
From a snake, which, from the description, is supposed to be the milksnake, Opliiholus.
Obtained by Dr. James Bissell, in the vicinity of Harrisburg, Pa. Ascaris penita.
Body cylindrical, tapering at the extremities, and most attenuated in front ; mouth trilabiate.
Tail of female, long, straight, conical, subulate; of male of same form, strongly curved, with the point brought near the genital aperture ; provided at the posterior third with four pairs of papillae.
Penal spiculte remarkably robust.
Length of female 5 to 7 lines, by ^ line in width ; of male, to 5 lines, by O'SIS mm.
in width.
Numerous specimens from the intestine of Trachemys scabra.
Generative aperture of the female at the posterior third of the body.
QSsophagus long cylindrical, followed by an oval or spherical gizzard.
Commencement of intestine dilated.
CEsoph'agus 1'75 mm.
long, by 0"125 wide : gizzard about 0'25.
Tail of female r25 mm.
lon<j;.
Breadth of penal spicules 0*08 mm.
Physaloptera torquata.
Body c^'lindrical, most attenuated anteriorly ; head with a conspicuous narrow annular fold or collar ; mouth bilabiate, labia half conical with a pair of lateral papillse and the apex provided with a group of four, of which one is external to the other.
Tail short, conical, obtuse, recurved from the anal aperture.
Numerous specimens, all females, from 3 to 6 lines wide and one-fourth of a line thick.
Worms all more or less spirally coiled.
From the stomach of the badger, 3Ieles labradorica.
Physaloptera turgida.
Rudolphi, Diesiug; Syst.
Helm., ii, 2o3.
Leidy, Pr A. N. S., 1866, 53.
From stomach of the opossum, Didelpliis virginiana.
Collection of the Army Medical Museum, Washington.
Also received from Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
Physaloptera abbreviata.
Rudolphi, Diesing; .Syst.
Helm., ii, 2.'i5.
Numerous females from 3 to 8 lines, and three males about 2 lines.
From the visceral cavity of Phrynosoma regale.
Collection of the Armj' Medical Museum, Washington.
Nose, mouth, and throat of Phrynosoma hernandezi ; Souora, Mexico.
Dr. T. H. Streets.
Hedruris androphora.
Nitzsch, Diesing ; Syst.
Hel., ii, 205.
Sijiiplectapeiidula Leidy, Pr.
A. N. S., 1851, 2J:0 j 1856, 52.
Diesing, Sitzungsb.
Wien.
Akad.
Wis., xlii, 1861, 647.
Stomach of Nanemys guttatus.
Cuculanus roseus.
Leidy, Pr.
A. N. S., 1851, 155 ; 185G, 54.
Intestine of 3Ianouria fusca, Java.
Tropidocerca certa.
.?
Filaria diibia.
Leidy, Pr.
A. N. S., 1856, 55.
Female subglobular, broader than long, divided into zones ; tail abruptly projecting and conical.
Male of the ordinary nematoid shape, cylindrical, most attenuated in front.
Mouth trilabiate.
Caudal extremity strongW rolled inwardly, sigmoid at the end, which is conical, recurved from the genital aperture, mucronate and alate ; alae half oval, narrowing to the end of the mucro, which is truncate.
Female 7 mm.
long by 7 and 8 mm.
broad.
Male 12 to 18 mm.
long, and 0"375 to 0-5 wide.
The specimens of this curious parasite were contained in two spherical cysts in the wall of the stomach of the albatross, Diomedia exulans.
Each cyst contained a corpulent female with severally four and five males.
Obtained by Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
31 ON THE FEETILIZATION OF CASSIA MARILANDICA, BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
The relation of insects to flowers continues to be a question of profound interest.
It lias never been clear to my mind that insects are any material aid to plants through the pollinization which they often undoubtedly accomplish.
There has been little to prove that in-and-in or close breeding is an injurj^; and it has been assumed that cross-breeding among plants must be a benefit, solely because arrangements for its accomplishment surely exist.
I have shown in various papers (see chiefly Proceedings of American Association for the Advancement of Science^ Detroit meeting), that in a scheme of nature for progressive development there must be provided arrangements for the removal of old as well as for the introduction of new forms, and /rom the facts adduced we have as much right to look on them in the light of agencies for removal as for the strength and preservation of a race.
In my mind, the facts rather show that instead of any material aid to the propagation of the race being gained, the dependence of a plant on insect aid for fertilization is rather an indication that its race is nearly run, and that it is on the downward track in the order of nature.
The assumption that cross-fertilization is a factor in development instead of in degradation, has, I believe, been an injury to the study of the main question, as it has led to generalizations that cannot be sustained, and to assertions regarding facts that I think would not have been made had not the observers been prepossessed in favor of this hypothesis.
The followers of those who have done so much to advance this branch of science, have gone much further in their speculations than those who first originated the line of thought ; and even the leading minds in that path have often been the victims of an enthusiasm of which their cooler moments would not approve.
Here and there we meet with statements by even such eminent naturalists as Darwin and Asa Gray, that would seem to sustain the wide genralizations of Grant Allen or Sir John Lubbock ; but a careful study of their writings will show that they look on cross-fertilization as a fact, and as a measure of race utility, from a much more limited field than the supporters of the wider speculations seem to believe.
It is not the most eminent writers who assert that " cross-fertilization is the general rule," "the greater number of flowers are cross-fertilized," etc.
(see Popular Science Review^ 18Y3), though the casual expression of Dr. Asa Gray, in his papers of 1877, that " many flowers freely self-fertilize," certainly might imply self-fertilizers to be a minority of the whole ; but the same eminent botanist has also said " it is a common case that flowers crossfertilize when duly served by insects or wind, and selffertilize when not," and this by no means bears the impression that he regards self-fertilizing flowers as composing a particularly limited class.
Indeed no one is more severe than Dr. Gray on theorymakers who run off in haste on one line of facts.
The true sentiments of Dr. Gray are that " cross-fertilization, we may well believe, is a very risky affair," and in view thereof very few plants have become wholly dependent on this mode, but act on the rule to prefer cross-fertilization " if they can," but failing in this, to self-fertilize, " if they must."
And, though it is not so generally understood, I think a careful study of Mr. Darwin's works will show that this is essentially his view also.
Though unwilling to concede that any material benefit comes to the races of plants from the aid which insects give to plants by cross-fertilization, the fact that some species are evidently wholly dependent on this agency for fertility, is no less interesting, and any original observations must have value to the student of this branch of science.
Cassia, in a general way, has been a subject of study.
In 1875 Dr. Leggett writes (Bull.
Torr, Club, p. 171) that Dr. Torrey had noticed the difficulty Cassia niclitans had in rejecting its pollen.
Dr. Torrey believed, however, that though the anthers seemed to provide a pore at the apex for the emission of pollen, they finally slit longitudinallj'^, and thus permitted the pollen to escape.
Dr. Leggett does not seem satisfied of this.
In 1882, however, Prof. J. E. Todd published some extremely interesting observations on this species, and on Solarium rostratum, which has a similar staminal arrangement (see Am.
Naturalist.
Ap.
1882, p. 281-287).
C. Marilandica is referred to as one that would probably behave in the same way.
Before noting what Mr. Todd saw in these, I will note the observations I have made on this species.
As nothing seems to have been placed on record in relation to Cassia Marilandica, and I having a good opportunity for dailyobservation, I undertooli its close investigation this year.
In Cassia Marilandica the flower consists of five petals, as in other leguminosae; but the two which usually unite and form the carina are here distinct and spread widel}^, talking the place apparently often occupied by the wing-petals.
The two actual wing-petals are somewliat erect and lap under the upper or vexilliim.
This arrangement gives the flower a "somewhat two-lipped appearance."
The style curves gradually, but more rapidly at the apex, curving there so much that the stigmatic surface can scarcely be closely examined without breaking the style.
If the petals be opened just before the natural time for their expansion, a globule of liquid is pendant from the surface.
Tlie stamens are arranged in separate sets.
Tliere are three beneath the pistil the two lateral ones are very strong and equal the pistil in length the central one immediately beneath the pistil is as long as those on each side, but more slender.
Immediately above tlie pistil are four stamens, with short, stout filaments, the anthers being perfectly formed, and nearly as long as in the lower set.
Above are three petaloid stamens, which we can only see are staminal efforts, by noting the intermediate stages of the several parts between the stamens and petals.
The only use for them seems to be to afi'ord a good morphological lesson to the student.
The most interesting feature of this Cassia is that the stamens, not mono or diadelphous as in manjleguminosae, have long, black anthers, full of pollen, but which seem never to burst the anther cases.
The only " opening is at the apex," and this " opening " is covered by a membrane never opening, as I believe, except by insect agency.
As soon as the flower expands it is freel}^ visited by humble bees, and, as their loaded thighs evidence, for the pollen.
To collect this, they alight on the anthers of the long and lower stamens, as on a platform make an opening in the apex of each of the four shorter ones, and then rifle them of their contents.
I watched a mass of plants containing eight3'-eight flower stems, on the 30th of July, and the same lot for an hour on 6th of August, but saw no attempt to get pollen from the longer anthers, or to use them in any way but as a platform.
It would, indeed, be hardly possible for the bee to stand anywhere so as to get power to pierce the apical membranes of the longer stamens.
When the flower matured, and the anthers were ready to fall, thej' were examined the four short ones were empty sacs the three lower ones proved they had not served any purpose to the bees, for they were full of pollen.
There could be no doubt that, perfect and full of pollen as thoj^ were, they served no purpose that I could see either to the flower or to its insect visitors.
Hive bees on honey-collecting expeditions hunted around among the base ot the petals, but were not, apparently, well rewarded for their work.
No pollen could be detected on the stigmatic surface; but as about three out of every twelve flowers yielded a pod, they were evidently fertilized in some way.
On the 30th of July I covered one panicle that had not yet opened a blossom, with a gauze bag twelve inches wide and eighteen inches deep, tied at the bottom to prevent ingress.
Not one of these enclosed flowers produced a seed vessel, nor could I see that any one anther " opened at the apex."
The membrane covered it as completely as it did in the unopened flower.
Now all these observations confirm those of Mr. Todd in the other plants except in the following particulars : As in my case, he found that the bees never attempted to collect pollen from the longer and lower anthers, but " b}'' the movement of her feet the larger stamen is repeatedly sprung backward, and as often throws a cloud of pollen on one side of her body."
I am sure no pollen was ejected in this way from Cassia Marilandica, for the membrane at the apex was not even ruptured when the stamens were ready to fall.
In regard to the manner in which the pollen is extracted, he found that " this she does by seizing each anther near its base between her mandibles, and, with a sort of milking motion, crowds the pollen out of the terminal pore."
If this were the general way there would be no necessity for any pollen being ejected from the long stamens, for the stigma would certainly receive some during the " milking " process ; and the pore at the apex in the long anther is beyond the line of the stigma, so that on ejection from the pore the pollen would go still further beyond.
At any rate I am satisfied that in this species the anther cases did not under my observation ultimately split longitudinally, as stated by Dr. Torrey in an allied species, nor was there any drawing out of the pollen, as observed by Prof. Todd.
It is abstracted solely through the pores; and although I could see no evidence that such was actually the case, I suspect fertilization could only occur through some of this extracted pollen escaping from the insect to the stigma.
However, the fact was clearly demonstrated that Cassia Marilandica, in this experiment, does not produce a single seed, when the flowers are protected from the visits of insects.
This plant is the more interesting as it belongs to an order -which the enthusiasts to whom I have referred, see " from its structure " to be so well " arranged for cross-fertilization,'' but which those who, like the following author, have followed results, see just the reverse. "
To the casual observer of tj^pical structures the papilionaceous plants must present the most difficult nut to crack for a student of cross-breeding.
* * * As might be expected from the structure of the flowers, we have in these plants persistent examples of self-fertilization, and hence the constancy of garden varieties " (Gard.
Mag., Feb. 3, ISTT).
1886.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
319 September 7.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
September 14.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Thirty-four persons present.
September 21.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
The death of Wm.
P. Jenks, a member, was announced.
Chinese Women and Spiritism.
The following communication was read from Miss Adele M. Fielde: In the eighth month of the year, early in autumn, when the full moon is worshipped ; when the gods of grain are rewarded with gifts ; when friends exchange many souvenirs ; when the upper and nether worlds are thought to touch boundaries, then the Chinese women meet privately and fall into trances.
Nearly all women are interested in these secret sessions, but many are prevented from being present by necessary occupations elsewhere, or by fear of rebuke from the men of their households.
These conclaves are entered by women only, and are regarded by men with great disfavor.
The women assemble in an apartment where theymay be for a few hours secure from interruption.
From three to a dozen or more gather around a table in the centre of the room.
Incensesticks, spirit-money and bamboo-roots, bought by a previous contribution of farthings, are distributed among all present.
A fetich of some sort, a decayed splint hat, an old broom, a chopstick, or possibly a more uncleanly object, taken from a rubbish heap, is brought in, and spirit-money is burned before it, with obeisances.
Then those who desire to fall into trance sit down at the table, throw a black cloth over the head, hold a sheet of spirit-money and a lighted incense-stick between the palms before the face, shut the eyes, and remain motionless and silent.
Of the other women, some light incense-sticks and whirl them around the heads of the sitters ; some rap constantly, gently and rapidly, with the bamboo-roots on the edge of the table ; some chant invocations, petitioning the gods to admit these their children to their aliode.
Man3^ and diverse incantations are iterated.
One, given to rae by a woman who appeared to be an expert, may be translated as follows : Sister spirit, ghost of nun, Spirit, spiiit, come and reach Body take bv sharing one ; Hand to lead us ; vouchsafe speech ; Twu or three await tliee here.
Be incarnate in us here ; Choo.-e in which thou wilt appear.
Choose in whom thou wilt appear.
Two or three of the women, perhaps, fall into trance.
Their doing so is indicated by their trembling violently, dropping the incense-sticks they were holding, beginning to beat the table with the palms of their hands, and to discourse incoherentl}'.
They speak of meeting their own lost friends, or those of other women who are present.
They weep bitterly while they appear to converse with tlie dead.
They describe streets, shops and houses and say that certain person are engaged in agriculture or ti'ade.
Sometimes they, by request, make inquiry concerning the whereabouts of a dead person, and then give the information that he has been born into the human family for the second time.
Sometimes they report that a dead neighbor is shut up in Hades with nothing to eat but the salted flesh of the infant daughters she destroyed when she was alive.
Many women go to these meetings merely as observers ; many ' more go in order to avail themselves of what the}' believe to be an opportunity to hear from dead relatives ; a few go with the hope that they may themselves fall into trance, and see the spirit of some recently deceased friend.
It is said that those who wish to enter Elysium and see the dwellings of the gods and geni, must make the attempt in the forenoon, while those who wish to visit lower spheres get admittance only in the afternoon.
As no pecuniary benefit accrues, directly or indirectly, to the actors in these scenes, there is less reason for suspecting conscious deception than in the case of the public interpreters for the gods.
No foreign lady can get access to these sittings, and no native Christian woman is admitted to them.
It is said that no one falls into the trance-state, if a Monotheist be within sight or hearing.
My knowledge is gained wholly from a score of Chinese women, now my pupils, who in former years attended these sittings, and who have described to me the scenes of the eighth month.
Throughout the whole there is indication that the minds of the women are, during these trances, moving in customary grooves.
They evidently see what they expect to see.
The gardens of Elysium are laid out in Chinese style; the architecture of the buildings is Chinese ; the punishments are those made familiar to the imagination by Buddhism and Tauism ; the costumes, the implements, and the paraphernalia are such as are common in Swatow.
These seekers after truth in the land of shades bring back no ideas save those which the}took with them when starting on tlieir quest; and this leniils one to doubt, in spite of their disheveled hair, paUor and exhaustion, whether they have after all really been away from home.
At nightfall the supposed traveler is lured back by incantations, and then she slips slyly back into her accustomed duties, with no chance, for another whole year perhaps, to take a jaunt either with body or soul, Swatow, China, August 1, 1886.
September 28.
Mr. W. W. Jefferis in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
The death of Charles Baeder, a member, was announced.
Richard H. Day was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed :
