REVISION OF NORTH AMERICAN SPIDERS OF THE FAMILY LYCOSIDJE.
by ralph v, chamberlin.
Table of Contents.
PAGE Introduction 158 Lists of described North .Ajmerican Lycosidae 163 The Family Lycosidse 165 Key to Genera 169 The Genus Pardosa: Definition 170 Key to species 172 Description of species 174 The Genus Schizocosa; Definition...^ 210 Key to species 212 Description of species 212 Tlie Genus Lycosa : Definition 220 Key to species 223 Description of species 226 The Genus Allocosa: Definition 284 Key to s5)ecies 285 Description of species 285 The Genus Sosippus : Definition 292 Description of species 293 The Genus Trabea : Definition 295 Description of species 296 The Genus Sosilaus : Definition 298 Description of species 298 The Genus Pirata: Definition 299 Key to species 301 Description of species 301 Explanation of Phates '.
316 Introduction.
The Lycosidce form one of the most successful of all families of spiders.
Their common names of wolf and running spiders indicate their dominant traits.
All live close to the earth, roaming freely and boldly, and with rare exceptions capturing their prey by the chase rather than by means of webs or other strategy.
They are among the most familiar and widely distributed of spiders.
The Piratas and most of the small and excessively active Pardosas keep close to the water, when alarmed running out freely over the surface, in adaptation to which action their tarsi are specially modified in the arrangement of hairs and bristles.
The larger Lycosas may mingle their colors with those of the dried leaves and twigs of the woods, lurk beneath the stones of roadside and field, wander in the open or burrow in the sand of the seashore or the soil of the plain.
Everywhere they are familiar; not because of large number of species, nor because of their bold open habits, but especially because of the excessive abundance of individuals resulting from successful adaptation to conditions widely available.
All true spiders depend upon living animals, mostly insects, for food.
Since they ingest only the body juices of their prey, what seems at first an amazing quantity of insects is required to satisfy their nutritive needs.
Most spiders have met this requirement through the development of instinct and skill, accompanied of course by those structural modifications necessary for their effective exercise, in the construction of webs.
The line of divergence of the Lycosidce, however, has been in the direction of capacity for taking prey by the chase.
The high arched cephalothorax and the long stout legs plainly bespeak strength and speed.
But strength and speed alone would be quite ineffective without the simultaneous development of the sensory system, to enable the spiders to detect and with some certainty to follow their prey.
Such development has affected strongly the sight; other senses, excepting touch, being seemingly but feebly developed.
This is manifest in the differentiations in size and arrangement of the eyes.
It has been shown that the arrangement of the eyes is such as to make the animal aware of movements within its limit of vision in front, at the sides and through a considerable arc behind, the arc directly forward being covered particularly well.
The eyes fall very clearly in three rows.
The first row, situated across the lower part of the face, is composed of four small eyes placed in different planes; the second of two eyes, large in size and directed antero-laterally ; the third of two medium-sized eyes situated farther back on the pars cephalica and directed laterocaudally.
This arrangement of the eyes is apparently associated with the characteristic elevation of the pars cephalica.
The high dorsally narrowed cephalothorax and the placement of the eyes m three distinct rows as described are features by which the Lycosidce are usually to be detected at a glance.
Other characters serving with those mentioned to distinguish members of this family are the three claws of the tarsi, the notching of the trochanters at the outer end beneath, and the excavation of the posterior piece of the superior lorum of the abdominal pedicel.
Most of the wolf spiders build no webs of any kind for ensnaring their prey.
A few forms {Sosippus, Hippasa), however, construct sheet webs over stones and low bushes with central, funnel-like retreats, much like those of some Agelenidce.
In these web-constructing forms there is a strong development of the superior spinnerets, similar to that in the latter family.
The females without exception enclose their eggs in cocoons, Avhich they carry about attached to their spinnerets until the young hatch.
After hatching the young are carried about on the back of the parent until able to shift for themselves with some degree of safety.
In making these cocoons the spiders first spin upon the ground a circular disk, which they enlarge usually until its diameter is about equal to -the length of their bodies.
A suitable scaffolding of threads is constructed preliminary to the spinning of the disk.
After the basal disk is completed the spider presses out from the genital ducts upon the center of the disk a drop of viscid fluid, into which the eggs are allowed to fall.
She then spins over the eggs a covering sheet, fastening its edges to the basal disk.
The cocoon is then cut loose from its attachments by means of the chelicerae, the ragged edges are neatly taken up and fastened to the wall of the cocoon, and over the whole fresh threads are spun while the cocoon, held beneath the cephalothorax by means of the third legs, is rotated by chelicerse and palps.
The result is a neat egg-sac, lenticular in form and showing a distinct seam {Pardosa), or spherical in form and either -wath a less distinct seam at equator (Pirata) or without a seam evident (Lycosa).
As a rule the Lycosids born during any season pass the succeeding winter in the half-grown condition, not reaching maturity until the following summer or late spring.
The smaller members of the family live but a single year, and during this time build no retreats for themselves.
The larger Lycosas, however, are known to live for several years.
Many of these, build burrows, which they close upon the approach of winter by means of plugs or lids.
These burrows may ])e mere shallow, nest-like excavations loosely lined with silk or may be deeper, more skilfully executed tunnels.
In some cases a rampart or turret is built up about the opening of the burrow, apparently to prevent the drifting in of debris, etc.
This rampart may be composetl of particles of sand or earth, or of pieces of straw, grass or sticks.
superposed and bound together by means of silk.
The same burrow may be occupied by a spider for several seasons, the occupant remodelling the burrow if injured by accident, or enlarging it if outgrown (see L. fatifera, etc.).
The number of species and genera of Lycosidce is very much smaller than would at first thought seem probable.
These bold wanderei"s, with their strong, long legs, the black spines upon which standing out threateningly during excitement suggest their aggressiveness, spread out persistently in e^•ery direction.
Isolation of any part of a species for a long time would be expected to be rare, and the establishment of distinct forms, therefore, so far as dependent upon this factor, infrequent.
There are comparatively few species of wide distribution, rather than a large number of limited range.
This wide range of species is accompanied naturally by a great deal of fluctuating variability in many of their features.
A result has been a surprisingly large number of synonj^ms, consecjuent wpon examinations of limited number of specimens from widely separated localities.
For example, species that range from New England to the West and far South become lighter and lighter in coloration.
In several species the brightly colored individuals that prevail in Texas would appeal to one at first as surely specifically distinct from the darker forms of the North.
But all gradations are found when sufficient material is studied, especially in that from intermediate regions, while apparently no significant differences at all appear in less variable structural features.
Important variations are discussed in detail in the present work under the respective species.
In this connection a main source of difficulty has been, indeed, the placing of too great reliance upon purely relative characters that undergo greater variation than has been recognized.
Even in the treatment of genera this purely relative nature of the characters commonly used has left much room for diversity in opinion and usage.
It is not, therefore, really surprising to find that genera accepted without question by one student are unhesitatingly denied by others.
Some genera that have from time to time been proposed are clearly artificial, having, it would seem, been erected with a view to convenience rather than in an effort to express genetic relationship.
All of the characters that have been conmionly used in separating, e.g., Pardosa and Lycosa, somewhere become uncertain, the result having been many incorrect references of species.
And so, also, is it with other genera.
My own studies of the Lycosidce long ago convinced me that the clearest and most definite characters for limiting not only the species but the genera of the Lycosidce as well, are those presented in the copulatory organs.
In the present contribution much reliance is placed upon these characters as indices of relationship.
They have not previously been used in the definition of genera.
It has been necessary to introduce a provisional terminology, perhaps sufficient for present descriptive purposes, for parts of the copulatory organs.
Careful comparative studies on the morphology of the palpal organs of male spiders are much needed to give us a consistent general terminology.
As here considered the portion of the family Lycosidce in the fauna of America north of Mexico includes eight genera: Allocosa, Pardosa, Schizocosa, Lycosa, Trahea,Sosippus, Sosilaus and Pirata.
Lycosa is more comprehensive than the other genera and its species fall into a number of natural but mostly intergrading groups.
Of these groups one in pari corresponding to Trochosa of some authors is most divergent and compact.
(See further under Lycosa.)
Altogether, in the neighborhood of one hundred and fifty specific names have been erected for the forms under these genera ; but of these not more than half are really "good."
The species that I have been able to regard as distinct and recognizable are distributed among the genera as follows: Trahea, Sosippus and Sosilaus, e&ch with one; Allocosa, five; Schizocosa, three; Pirata, nine; Pardosa, seventeen ; Lycosa, thirty.
Of the material studied mention should be made first of the section of Lycosidce in the rich collection of Aranea.
at Cornell University, for the privilege of using which and for other unfailing courtesies I am deeply obliged to Prof. J. H. Comstock.
The Cornell collection includes not only species from New York State and other parts of the North, but also a good representation of forms from the South and a number of species from the West.
My own collection consists of specimens collected in California, Utah and New York by myself, and of a large number from many different localities obtained through others.
Among those to whom it is a pleasure to make acknowledgments for specimens are the following: M. Simon, France (specimens from Florida); Rev.
F. O. P. Cambridge, England; Mr. B. H. Guilbeaux, Louisiana; Miss Annie Jones, Georgia; Mr. A. M. Bean, Iowa; Mr. C. O. Crosby, New York; Mr. T. H. Scheffer, Kansas; Mr. G. W. Peckham, Wisconsin ; Dr. O. M. Howard, Utah; Prof. T. H. Montgomery, Texas.
For the loan of specimens and collections for study I owe my thanks to Mr. J. H. Emerton, Boston; Mr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Boston; Prof. C. M. Weed, New Hampshire; Prof. John Barlow, Rhode Island ; ]\Ir.
Charles Fuchs, of the California Academy of Sciences; Prof. M. T. Cook, Indiana; and Dr. W. M. Wheeler, of the American Museum of Natural Histoi-v, New York.
1908.1 163 For the privilege of studjdng the Marx collection in the U.
8.
National Museum and various types in his own private collection, I am much indebted to the courtesy of Mr, Nathan Banks.
List of Described North American I.ycosid.e, Genera.
Allocosa Bks.
Ardosa C. Koch = Lycosa J^atr.
Aulonia Emerton {auranliaca) Trabea Simon.
Geolycosa Mtg.
= Lycosa Latr.
Leimonia C. Koch = Pardosa Koch.
Lycosa Latr.
Pardosa C. Koch.
Pi rata Sund.
Scaptocosa Banks == Geolycosa Mtg.
ScHizocosA Chamb.
SosiLAUS Simon.
Sosippus Simon.
Trabea Simon.
Trochosa C. Koch = Lycosa.
degesta Chamberlin.
evagata, sp.
nov. ?
exalhida Becker.
funerea (Hentz).
Species of Allocosa.
nigra (Stone) = rugosa (Keys.).
parva (Banks).
rugosa (Keyserling).
siiblata (Montgomerv) = funerea (Hentz).
Species of Lycosa.
albohastata Em.
antelucana Mtg.
= apicala Bks.
apicata Bks.
arenicola Sc aspersa Hentz.
avara Keys.
bahingtonii Bl.
= helluo W. baltimoriana Keys, (var.)
beanii Em.
hrunneiventris Bks.= A'oc/ui Keys.
carolinensis H. cinerea Fab.
coloradensis Bks.
crudelis Bks.
= helluo W. communis Em.
= erratica H. epigynata Mtg.
= gulosa W. erratica H. exitiosa Bks.
= aspersa.
fatifera H. florid.ana Bks.
floridiana Bks.
frondicola Em.
fumosa Em.
grandis Bks.
gulosa W. helluo W. helvipes Keys.
= helluo W. inhonesta (Keys.)
= aspersa H. insopita Mtg.
= gulosa W. immaculata Bks.
= aspersa H. kochli Keys.
latifrons (Mtg.)
= fatifera H. lenta H. lepida Keys.
= erratica H. littoralis H. = cinerea Fab.
maritima H. = cinerea Fab.
milherti W. = ?
carolinensis W. missouriensis Bks.
= fatifera H. modesta Keys.
modestaTh.
= frondicola Em.
nidicola Em.
= helluo W. nidi f ex Mx.
= arenicola Sc.
nigroventris Em.
= frondicola Em.
164 [May, oblonga Bks, = aspersa H. perdita.
perniunda Chamlx pikei Mx.
= arenicola Sc.
piulens ^Ix.
= frondicola Em.
pictilis Em.
pilosa Gir.
= carolinensis W. philadelphiana W., invalid.
polita Em.
= rubicunda Keys.
pratensis Em.
pidchra (Keys.).
= gtdosa W. purcelli ^Itg.
= gulosa W. propinqua Bl.
= erratica H. puuctulata H. quiuaria Em.
riparia Hentz.
rubicunda Keys.
rufiventris Bks.
= avara Keys.
ruricola H. = lenta H. sepidchralis Mtg.
= modest a Keys.
sagittata H. = erratica H. scalar is Th.
= erratica H. scutulata Htz.
sa?/i W. = ?
/leZ/wo W. si?nilis Bks = /leZ/wo W. texana Mtg.
= carolinensis W.
(var.)
tigrina McC.
= aspersa H. m/raC.
K. = ?/ieZZwo Walck.
vidpina Em.
= aspersa H. Walckenaek's Names of Species of Lycosa of the Abbott and Bosc Manuscripts.
ammosa.
avida.
discolor.
encarpata.
grossipes.
georgiana.
qeorgicola.
(Described in Ins.
Apt., Vol.
1.)
impavida.
infesta.
mordax.
suspecta.
triton.
vehemeris.
These names are all invalid, the descriptions havinc the unpublished drawings of Abbott and Bosc.
been based on Species of Pardosa.
albomacidata Em.
= grcenlandica Th.
anmdata Bks.
= saxatilis Bl, atra Bks.
banksi Chamb.
brumiea Em.
= var.
of modica Bl.
californica Keys.
canadensis Bl.
= milvina H. coloradensis Bks.
= sterncdis Th.
(Jrs.).
distincta Bl.
dorsalis Bks.
^77iackenziana Keys.
dro?7ioeaTh.
= grcenlandica Th.
emertoni Chamb.
flaripcs Keys.
= 7nilvina Htz.
florida7ia Bks.
= banksi Chamb., ^ar.
fuscula Th.
= modica Bl.
furcifera Th, = modica Bl.
glacialis Th.
= modica Bl.
groenlandica Th.
impavidaTh.
= xerampelina Keys.
indigatrix Th.
= grcenlandica Th.
intrepida Marx = groeidandica Th, iracimda Th.
= grcenlandica Th.
labradorensis Th.
lapidicina Em.
longispinata Tullg.
luteola Em.
= distincta Bl.
littoralis Bks.
= banksii Chamb.
1908.1 165 mackenziana Keys.
mercurialis Mtg.
= lapidicina Em.
iiiilvinaHtz.
minima Keys.
= saxatilis H. modica Bl.
m(psta Bks.
montana Em.
= xeram'peUna Keys.
nigropalpis Em.
= niilvina H. 'pallida Em.
= emertoni Chamb.
parvida Bks.
= saxatilis H.
(var.)
pauxilla Mtg.
saxatilis Htz.
scita Mtg.
= milvina.
sinistra Th.
= groenkmdica Th.
steriialis Th.
tachypoda Th.
= xerampelina Keys.
texana Bks, = lapidicina Em.
^m/is Th.
= grce7ilandica Th.
uncata Th.
= mackenziana Keys.
venusta Bks.
= lapidicina (Jrs.).
xerampelina Keys.
Species of Pirata.
«(7«7rs Bks.
= montanus Em.
aspiraiis Chamb.
bilobata (Tidlg.).
•elegans Stone = montanus Em.
-exigua Bks.
= minuta.
febriculosa Becker.
humicolus Montg.
insularis Em.
^i6er Montg.
= insidaris Em, marxi Stone.
minuta Em.
montana Em.
montanoides Bks.
= insularis Em.
nigromaculatus Montg.
= montanus Em.
prodi^iosa Keys.
piratica (CI.)
var.
sedentarius Mtg.
Beck.
ivacondana Schef.
(Beck.)
utahensis, new, = febriculosa = febriculosa Species of Schizocosa, bilineta (Emerton).
■charonoides Mtg.
= saltatrix H. gracilis (Banks) = saltatrix H. humilis (Banks) = saltatrix H. ocreata (Hentz).
■ocreata pulchra (Montg.)
= bilineata.
relucens (Montg.)
= venustida (Hentz).
rufa Keys.
= ocreata Hentz ( 9 ).
saltatrix stonei jMontg.
= ocreata Hentz.
vemistula (Hentz) = saltatrix H. verisimilis (Montg.)
= saltatrix H. spinig-er Smion.
iloridanus Simon.
aurantiaca (Emerton).
Species of Sosilaus.
Species of Sosippus.
Species of Trabea.
The Family Lycosid.e.
Cephalothorax elongated, much longer than wide, attenuated anteriorly.
The pars thoracica high and subprismatic, narrow above and oval in outline, with the posterior border truncate and concave at the middle; a distinct fine median sulcus which is rather long always present, as are also more or less distinctly impressed radiating striae.
Pars cephalica elevated and arched, distinctly separated from the par's thoracica by cervical furrows which unite at an angle at the median dorsal line, these more rarely indistinct above; pars cephalica with front truncated or more or less obtusely rounded.
The face high, trapeziform or, less commonly, with the sides subparallel; in profile vertical, or at least very steep.
Eyes all of the diurnal type; always distinctly arranged in three rows, of which the first is composed of four eyes and is located upon the lower part of the face, the second composed of two eyes at the upper part of the face or semidorsal in position, and the third, also composed of two eyes, in a strictly dorsal position; eyes of the first row small and comparatively close together, in a straight, procurved or rarely recurved row, the lateral eyes on more or less evident tubercles and with their visual axes directed antero-ventrally ; eyes of second row very large, occupying a transverse space, in most cases wider than that of the first row, less commonly of the same length or shorter, their visual axes directed antero-laterally ; eyes of third row large, almost always more widely separated than those of the second row, with which they thus outline a trapeziform area (quadrangle of posterior eyes), their visual axes directed more or less caudo-laterally.
Clypeus comparatively narrow, always narrower than the width of the area outlined by the first and second rows of eyes (quadrangle of anterior eyes).
Chelicerce long and robust, always vertical in position in both sexes ; at base a well-marked and rather large lateral condyle; both upper and lower margins of furrow armed, the upper with two or, more commonly, with three teeth, of which the median is much the largest, and the lower margin with from two to four stout conical teeth; posterior face always marked with a distinct oblique stria, along the inner side of which, especially in the middle region, is a well-developed, often dense, pilose band ; upper margin of furrow bordered with a subdense pilose band or fringe.
Labium free; the ventral surface flat or, much more commonly, convex; more or less attenuated anteriorly, with front margin truncate or obtuse; from longer than wide to wider than long; much shorter than the endites.
Endites longer than wide, more or less excavated within and fitting over the sides of the labium, externally roimded and never much narrowed at base; erect, never obliquely inclined; dorsal surface flat or a little concave; distally the supra-external border with a fine serrulate line or serrula ; siipero-internal border with a dense pilose band or scopula.
Sternum longer than wide; large, subcordiform, being truncated in front, rounded at the sides and attenuate to a point caudally.
Legs long or moderately long, the fourth longest, then the first, the third shortest in the great majority of cases ; but there are exceptions in which the third legs are longer than the second, and others in which the second are longer than the first.
The femora, tibiae and metatarsi and usually also some or all of the patellae armed Avith spines ; the anterior tibise with three pairs of spines beneath, less commonly with two (Pirata), and sometimes with as many as five (SosUaus); these and other spines of the anterior legs often much reduced and sometimes absent.
In some small species the tarsi are beneath, all simply and rather sparsely setose, but in most they are at least in part more or less provided with scopula composed uniformly of fine, flat lanceolate and slenderh^ pointed hairs, never of distally enlarged hairs; in the smaller species these scopulsB may be present only along the sides of the ventral faces of the anterior tarsi ; but in the larger species {Sosippus and most Lycosas) the entire ventral surface of the anterior tarsi is densely scopulate, and the metatarsi are usually similarly or less densely scopulate, and the tibiae are also sometimes scopulate distally; in these larger forms the posterior tarsi are scopulate, but have their scopulae divided by a median line or band of setae; never with dense fasciculae at base of claws.
Tarsi bearing three claws, of which the superior are strong and broad basally, and bear a series of teeth from five to seven, rarely more, in mmiber, these being mostly confined to the basal half of the claws; the unpaired claw small, bent abruptly downward, almost always naked, rarely with a single tooth.
Trochanters invariably notched or excavated at distal end beneath.
Superior lorum of the pedicel of the abdomen composed of two principal, very unequal pieces, of which the smaller posterior one is truncated or somewhat concave behind, and in front is notched or excavated for the reception of the angularly or roundly attenuated posterior part of the longer anterior piece; at each side of the principal plates is a slender, anteriorly attenuated piece.
Spinnerets six in number; the anterior ones short and relatively stout, contiguous or subcontiguous ; the posterior more or less separated from each other, mostly more slender than the anterior and either of the same length or longer, composed of two articles, of which the second is short and rounded and usually subject to retraction within the fii-st. or less commonly longer and conical (Sosippus) ; median pair slender, of moderate length.
Body clothed with simple hair, or more rarely with some of plumose ty]3e intermixed (Sossipus and some Pardosas).
Genital plate or epigynum of the female mostly simple ; either a simple iinfurrowed plate or a plate depressed or furrowed longitudinally and with the depressed area divided by a ridge-like elevation (guide), which in the large majority of cases extends laterally on each side at its posterior end.
The transverse portion of the guide often (Lycosa sens, str.)
distinctly more elevate than the septal portion immediatel}' in front of it and extending on each side to behind the openings of the spermathecse ; median piece of guide posteriorly and the transverse pieces on anterior side with the upper free edges mostly more or less •extended horizontally in plate-like expansions, which are usually narrow but may be wide (lateral plates or alee of guide).
Palpus of the male long, differing uniformly from that of the most nearlj' related families {e.g., Pisauridce and Agelenidos) in never having femur, patella, or tibia armed with any manner of process or apophysis.
Tarsus or cymbium comparatively simple, boat-shaped; completely covering the bulb, the alveolus occup5dng usually not more than twothirds of the ventral area; terminal part of the tarsus acuminate and bearing one, two, or rarely three mostly stout, always untoothed spines (transformed claws), occasionally imarmed.
Bulb comparativel}simple and compact; embolus only rarely exerted, in most h'ing upon a special fold (lectus) at front of the larger basal lobe or division, this fold in many with a lobe {auricida) extending forward in front of its exterior end ; lobe of the conductor bearing one to several chitinous processes (tenacula); either an erect and conspicuous apophysis (Pirata) or transverse, and appressed ; basal division of bulb bearing strongly chitinized fokl or apophysis (scopus) in a median (Pardosa) or exterior position (Lycosa), or with such fold or apophysis absent or but weakly developed (Pirata), its absence or weak development being correlated with the absence of furrow and guide in the epigj'-num of the female; a chitinous plate or area (lunate area) at base of bulb practically alwa3's exposed, the area being of varying size in the different genera, but of quite constant relative extent and position in each.
The most simple and generalized condition is shown in Pirata.
Svn.
— 1817.
Citigradce Latr.
(ad.
max.
part.
), in Cuvier, Regne Animal, ' 3, p. 95.
1823.
Cursores Sund.
(ad.
max.
part.).
Gen. Aran.
Suec, p. 20.
182,5.
Citigradw Latr.
(ad.
max.
part.
), Fam.
Nat.
de Regne Animal, p. 316.
1833.
Lyrosirfes Sund.
(ad.
max.
part.
), Comp.
Arachn., p. 25. onn.
1850.
Lijcosides C. Koch (ad.
max.
part.
), Ubersicht d. Araclm.
Syst.
^ 1852 Venatores Dolesch.
(ad.
max.
part.
), Syst.
Verz.
Oesten.
Sp., p. ^.
1869.
Lycosoidce Thorell (ad.
max.
part.
), On European Spiders p. ISS.
1876.
Lycosidoe Simon (excl.
Dolomedes and Ocyale), Arachn.
France, .3, p. 223 . '
Lycosoidce Keyserling (excl.
Dolomedes and Ocyale), Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, p. 610.
1877.
Lycosoid^ Thorell, Bull.
U.S.
G.S.Terr., 3, p. 504.
1885.
Lycosidoe Em.
(excl.
Dolomedes, Oxyopes and Ocyale), Trans.
L Acad.Sci., 6,p.
481.
■ , ^ , x t^ to at ^.r i.-, 1890.
Lycosidoe Marx (excl.
Dolomedes and Ocyale), Proc.
L. S. i\.
M., l^, p 560 1892.
Lycosida Banks (excl.
Pisauridoe), Can.
Entomologist, xxiv, p. 97.
1898.
Lycosida; Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign, 2, p. 317.
1903.
Lycosidre Comstock, Classif.
of N. A. Spiders.
1905.
Lycosida Banks, American Nat., p. 300, 318.
Key to North America Genera of Lycosid.e.
1.
Anterior tibia?
armed beneath with five pairs of very long spines; anterior eyes subcontiguous, in a recurved row clearly longer than the second, .• Sosilavs.
Anterior tibis armed beneath with less than five pairs of spmes ; anterior row of eyes straight or procurved, 2 2 I^ower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with four stout conical teeth, • • • SosiPPL-s. Lower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with two or three teeth, never with four, ' ' '^' 3.
Anterior row of eyes very strongly procurved, the median eyes much farther from the lateral than from each other, Trabea.
Anterior row of eves not strongly procurved, the median eyes little or mostly 'not at all farther from the lateral than irom each other, Z ' / /• • 4 Cephalothorax glabrous or very nearly so, smooth and shming, dark in color and without definite light markings, Allocosa.
Cephalothorax not glabrous, when but sparsely pubescent having a distinct light colored median stripe, ....... 5.
5 Distal pair of ventral spines of anterior tibia?
never apical in positioncephalothorax with a median pale band enclosing in its anterior portion a dark V-shaped mark.
(Epigynal plate unfurrowed, i.e., without a guide; true scopus absent or but faintly indieatfed in male palpus), • • PiRATA.
Distal pair of ventral spines of anterior tibise apical m position; median pale band of cephalothorax when present not enclosing anteriorly a dark V-shaped mark.
(Epigynum with a distinct guide; scopus well developed), ^• 6 Scopus median in position and more or less erect; guide of epigynum weakly or not at all developed anteriorly, the spermatheca opening into comparativelv deep, open, basin-hke fovea?, which when continued forward as furrows are distinctly less depressed anteriorlv ; labium wider than long with basal excavations short, .
: • Pardosa Scopus exterior in position; guide of epigynum well developed anteriorly ; labium longer than wide with the basal excavations long 7^ 7.
Transverse arms of guide divided from the distal end more or less mesally; auricula of lectus very long, reaching or nearly reaching the anterior margin of alveolus; the embolus distinctly elbowed at base of auricula ; conductor conspicuously elevate and usually more or less produced into a horn-like process extending beyond front margin of alveolus, .
Schizocosa.
Transverse arms of guide not divided from apex mesally ; auricula of moderate size or small, not attaining front of alveolus; embolus evenly curving, not elbowed at base of auricula; conductor not conspicuously elevate or produced above into a horn-like process extending beyond front margin of alveolus, IjYCOSA.
FABDOSA C. Koch, 1848.
(Subgenus sub LYCOSA.
Die Arachn., Vol.
14, p.
100.)
Entire body densely clothed with pubescence.
Anterior tibise armed beneath with three pairs of spines, of which the basal and median pairs are very long, much longer than the diameter of the joint, the third pair apical in position and reduced in size.
Anterior row of eyes always shorter than the second and procurved ; eijes small and subequal or with the median a little larger; median eyes nearly always a little farther from each other than from the lateral ; clypeus high, twice as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of the second row large and divergent, situated at the outer angles of the face above, their diameter or more apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapeziform, wider behind than in front.
Labium at least as wide as long, usually wider; basal excavation short, only very rarely more than one-fourth of the total length of labium.
Spinnerets short, the posterior pair a little longer than the anterior, the apical segment being short and rounded.
Epigynum with a distinct guide which is but weakly or not at all developed anteriorly; the openings of the spermatheca protected; the spermathecum on each side opening into a relatively large and deep fovea or pit, the furrows becoming narrower and shallower anteriorly.
Posterior lobe of mah palpus bearing a Scopus in a median position; scopus more or less erect, free except at base where it has a spur or process on the exterior side; scopal fold low; when a true lectal fold is indicated never showing an auricle or f orwardly directed lobe ; lower furrow of conductor relatively extensive, bearing at its inferior margin a variously formed and often lobed or dentate tenaculum.
Syn.
— 1804.
Lycosa Latceille (ad.
part.
), Nuov.
Diet.
Hist.
Nat., 24, p. 135 1832.
Lycosa Heutz (ad.
part ), Sill.
J. Sci.
Arts, 21, p. 106.
1842.
Lycosa Hentz (ad.
part.
), J. Bost.
Soc.
N. H., 4, p. 22S.
1848.
Lycosa subg.
Leimonia C. Koch, Die Arach., 14, p. 99. .
Lycosa subg.
Pardosa (noni.
preocc), ibid., p. 100.
1875.
Lycosa Hentz.
(ad.
part.
), Sp.
U. S., pp.
11 and 24.
1876.
Pardosa Simon, Arachn.
Fr., Vol.
3.
1876.
Lycosa Keyserling (ad.
part.
), Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien., p. 610.
1877.
Lycosa Thorell, Bull.
U. S. G. S.
Ten-., 3, p. 504 et seq.
1885.
Pardosa Emerton, Tr.
Conn. Ac.
Sci., 6, p. 494.
1898.
Pardosa Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2.
1902.
Pardosa Montgonierj' (ad.
part, max.
), Proc.
Ac.
Sci., Phila., p. 536, 1903.
Pardosa Comstock, Classif.
of N. A. Spiders.
1904.
Pardosa Chamberlin, Can.
Ent., xxxvi, p. 176.
Pars cephalica moderately narrow, the sides steep, gently declined anteriorly; face elevated, its sides straight and very steep, subvertical.
Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth or more the length of the cephalothorax.
Seen from above the posterior eyes are at most but very little more than their diameter removed from the margins of pars cephalica (PI.
VIII, fig.
2).
Chelicerce in the great majority of cases with but two teeth on the upper margin of the furrow, the lower margin with three, of which the third is usually much reduced (PI.
VIII, fig.
1).
Legs long and especially the metatarsi and tarsi slender.
Anterior tarsi scopulate, laterally the median ventral face occupied by a setose band (PI.
VIII, fig.
7), posterior tarsi simply setose; metatarsus of fourth leg relatively long, most commonly longer than the tibia + patella (especially so in d^ ) , more rarely of same length or a little shorter ; tibia + patella of fourth legs always longer than the cephalothorax.
The color markings frequently due in large part to the arrangement of the pubescence in spots and streaks without corresponding marks in the tegument, such markings', of course, being evident only in the living or dry specimens.
The cephalothorax in this genus has always a more or less evident light median stripe of a characteristic dagger form.
In nearly all species, although the markings may be much obscured in some, there is on the dorsum of the abdomen a pale basal mark which runs to a point near the middle, each side of the apex and also usually each side of the middle of which is an angular pale spot, having a dark dot at its center; posteriorly a series of such ocellate spots more or less united at the middle line into chevrons.
Il^ Spiders of small or less commonly of medium size, all characterized by excessive agility.
The males are commonly smaller than the females; but do not differ much in coloration.
As in Lycosa and other^, genera, however, the anterior legs of the male are often distinguished by some peculiar development of color structure.
Pardps^s build jio .retreat, wandering about during the cocooning season as well as at other times.
The cocoon is more or less lenticular inform, and shows a distinct seam about the equator, along which the break is made when the spiderlings issue to mount the parent.
The cocoon is typically greenish-yellow or greenish-black, but only very rarely white.
The individuals of this genus rarely live more than one year.
Key to Species of Pardosa.
Females, 1.
Epigynal plate or area widest at anterior end, distinctly narrowing^ posteriorly; guide wider anteriorly than toward apex (PI.
XIV, fig.
3), xerampelina (Keys.).
Not as above, 2.
2.
Epigynum presenting each side of the guide posteriorly a sharply delimited, relatively small fovea as long as wide, the anterior region of epigynum scarcely depressed, 3.
Not as above, 4.
3.
Posterior fovese angular in outline; posterior ends of lateral ridges separated by a distance much greater than their width; guide behind with transverse arms (PI.
XIII, fig.
5), .
sternalis Th.
Posterior fovese smoothly rounded in outline; posterior ends of lateral ridges not farther apart than their diameter ; guide with out transverse arms (PI.
XIII, fig.
8), atra Bks.
4.
Lateral furrows with the shallow anterior fossae short and narrow, behind these deepening and abruptly widely expanding, becoming widest near middle of epigynum; septum of guide elevate, its more depressed tranverse arms extending into excavations in theinnerfaceof the lateral ridges, 5.
Not as above, 7.
5.
Transverse arms of guide bending backwards, septum of guide widest at posterior end, becoming gradually narrower toward the anterior end, its sides substraight or but little curving (PI.
XIV, fig.
6), groenlandica Th.
Not so, 6.
6.
Transverse arms of guide bending more or less forward; septum abruptly widest immediately behind region of anterior fossae, from there narrowing to end (PI.
XV, fig.
3), modica var.
brunnea Em.
Transverse arms bending more strongly forward ; septum widest behind the middle of its length, typically expanded into a broad plate-like form over the origins of tranverse arms which it usually in large part covers (PI.
XV, fig.
1), modica Bl.
(type form).
7.
Face of septum of guide abruptly expanded behind into a large nearly circular plate, the diameter of which is clearly greater than the length of the part of epigynum in front of it (PI.
XIV, fig.
1), emerloni Chamb.
Not so 8.
8.
Epigynal area wider than long, 9.
Not so, 10.
9.
Distinct lateral ridges enclosing posterior portion of guide both at sides and also behind except for short median space between ends of ridges (PI.
XV, fig.
8), distincta Bl.
No enclosing ridges at sides or behind, guide extending completely over margins of plate of epigynum posteriorly (PL XIV, fig.
5), californica (Keys.).
10.
Over anterior and median portion of epigynum a narrow and very shallow fossa passing behind into a large transversely elliptical depression which is completely occupied by the expanded guide, the lateral ends of which lie in excavations in the side ridges (PI.
XV, fig.
5), mackenziana (Keys.).
Not so, 11.
11.
Transverse arms of guide narrowest mesally, widening toward their outer ends (PI.
XIV, fig.
7), .
.
.
.
lapidicina Em, Not so, 12.
12.
Lateral plates extending along guide for much of total length of epigynum, gradually narrowing in width anteriorly, .
.
.
13.
Not so, the lateral plates mostly confined to transverse arms, abruptly narrowing and extending forward but a short distance on septal piece, 15.
13.
Guide becoming very narrow toward its anterior end; outer margin of epigynum presenting a small abrupt shoulder on eacli side just below middle (PI.
XIII, fig.
9), .
.
pauxilla Mtg.
Guide of moderate width at its anterior end, being much wider than the fossa at each side; outer margin of epigynum presenting no shoulder below middle (PI.
XIII, fig.
7), banksi Chamb.
15.
Posterior fovea?
clearly wider than long; septum of guide very narrow over middle region, at front end strongly expanding in fan-like form; front margin of anterior depression straight and moderately wide (PI.
XIV, fig.
9), moesta Bks.
Not so, 16.
16.
Sides of epigynum protruding into an angle in front of middle; no distinctly defined lateral ridges in middle region of sides, the sides gradually convexly rounding from middle to outer margin (PI.
XIII, " fig.
1), \ .
.
.
.
.
.
saxatilis {B..).
Sides of epigynum not angulate in front of middle ; more or less distinct lateral ridges along middle region (PI.
XIII, fig.
3), milvina (H.).
The key to females above does not include P. longispinata (Tullg.)
and labradorensis (Th.
)^ of which specimens have not been examined by the author.
Males.
1.
Scopus short and stout, not at all or but slightly longer than broad, 2.
Scopus several times longer than broad, 7.
12 2.
Anterior depressed lobe of bulb separated into two furrows by an elevated narrow fold extending from above obliquely dow^nward and outward, externally from its lower end being two uncate tenacula and at the corner opposite its upper end a lamellate, inflexed chitinous angle (PI.
XI \^, fig.
8), .
.
lapidicina Em.
Not so, 3.
3.
Anterior division of bulb presenting a large, trilobed thickening transversely across its upper border from base of embolus outward, the ends of lobes recurved over the furrow posteriorly from them (PI.
XIV, fig.
4), californica (Keys.).
Not so, 4.
4.
Embolus extending across bulb almost to outer side of alveolus (PI.
XV, fig.
4, var.
brunnea; PI.
XV, fig.
2, type form), modica (Bl.).
Apex of embolus scarcdy extending beyond scopus, groenlandica Th.
7.
Scopus extending obliquely forward and outward quite to or some distance beyond margin of alveolus, 8.
Not so, 10.
8.
Scopus curving forward with convexity external and apex directed forward, emertoni Chamb.
Not so, 9.
9.
Embolus strongly bent into an S shape; scopal spur turned forward at apex (PI.
XIII.
fig.
6), sternalis (Th.).
Embolus but little curved, extending nearly straight transversely; scopal spur turned backward at apex (PI.
XIII, fig.
2), saxatilis (H.).
10.
Scopus above bent outward and then strongly backward, becoming nearly parallel with basal part (PI.
XV, fis;.9), distincta Bl.
Not so, ^ .... 11.
11.
Scopus dentate at apex; the spur nearly straight, subcorneal (PI.
XV, figs.
6 and 7), mackenziana (Keys.).
Scopus not dentate at apex, 12.
12.
Spur short and stout, abruptly turned posteriorly at apex into an acute hook (PI.
XIII, fig.
4), milvina (H.).
Spur cylindrical, longer, pauxilla Mtg.
Males of the following species are either unknown or are too imperfectly known to the author to be included in the foregoing key : atra, banksi, lahradorensis, longispinata, moesta, xerampelina.
Pardosa saxatilis (Hentz), 1844.
(J. Bost.
8oc.
\.
Hist., p. 392, PI.
XVIII, figs.
9, 10.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax deep brown to black crossed with lighter radiating lines ; a median reddish yellow band which anteriorly sends a short narrow process between eyes of the third row, behind which it abruptly widens, constricted midway between the eyes and the doi'sal groove, behind which it is strongly narrowed, sides of band in region of median groove dentate; on each side a yellow supramarginal stripe usually divided by two or three dark cross-lines and limited below by a narrow black marginal stripe which is more or less broken into spots ; clypeus yellow, with a triangular black spot below each anterior lateral eye, the apex of the spot being at the eye and the base on the front margin of the clypeus; the light part of cephalothorax in life clothed with dense white hair, that of the supramarginal stripes extending also over the black marginal lines, the light side stripes consequently appearing wider in live than in alcoholic specimens, Chelicerce yellow, with some dusky markings.
Labium and endites and coxce of legs beneath yellow.
Sternum black, usually with a narrow median pale line in front; often with a row of black dots along each lateral margin, and a central black stripe narrowed behind and anteriorly geminated by a pale line, elsewhere being yellow.
Legs yellow with black annuli on all joints excepting the tarsi, the dark annuli of the femora wide and predominating over the yellow, those of the tibia3 of same width as the yellow bands, while those of the metatarsi are distinctly narrower.
Abdomeyi blackish to dark gray above, sometimes of a greenish tinge; a yellow to brown lanceolate stripe at base having at each side of its apex a similarly colored angular spot with minute black dot at its center; on posterior portion of dorsum a series of light cross-marks, each formed by the lateral confluence of from two to four spots similar to those at sides of apex of basal stripe ; dorsum elsewhere with many minute light dots; sides like lateral portions of dorsum but with the light dots larger; venter yellow to light reddish brown, with a row of irregular dark and partly confluent marks along each side and a short median row of similar marks behind the epigynum; in life the abdomen is densely clothed with gray and brown hair.
Spinnerets light brown, Epigynum light brown, the posterior fovese appearing as darker blackish spots, Cephalothorax relatively higher in front than usual, highest at third eye row, from there slanting downward to the posterior declivity, concave at the dorsal groove, plane of quadrangle of posterior eyes not much declined.
Face as high as the length of the chelicerse or slightly higher, protruding above over its lower portion ; sides slightly convex or straight, sub vertical.
Anterior row of eyes of the usual length and curvature; anterior median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart, half as far from the lateral eyes, their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes three-fourths or more as large as the median, more than twice their diameter from the front margin of clypeus and than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter or a little more apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Labium wider than long (4.25 : 4) ; basal excavation one-fourth the total length; strongly attenuated anteriorly, the sides for most of length convexly rounded, becoming straight toward anterior angles; front margin slightly convexly rounded.
Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair clearly longer than the tibia -h patella; tibia Hpatella of the first pair of the same length as the cephalothorax; first two pairs of spines of the anterior tibiae very long and overlapping as usual; lateral scopulse of anterior tarsi very thin.
Epigynum without distinctly defined lateral ridges in the median region; sides strongh^ angulate in front of middle; guide usually pointed just in front of posterior foveae, between the anterior portions of which it is not concavely depressed as it is in flavipes, descending from the higher transverse ridge in a more nearly straight line than in the latter species.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
1.)
Total length, 5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.
; width, 1.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 7.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.4 mm.
; met., 1.5 mm.
Length of leg II, 7 mm.
Length of leg III, 7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 3.5 mm.
Male.
— Darker than female and the light and dark markings more strongly contrasting; entire eye region black; supramarginal light stripes of cephalothorax often obscure; femora of first legs entirely black, those of second pair pale over most of ventral surface, the black of dorsal surface more or less interrupted with yellow ; posterior femora with dark rings which are more broken or interrupted than in female; distal joints of all legs yellow, without any dark annuli.
Palpi entirely black except the patellae and the tips of the tarsi which are yellow or, in life, bright white.
Tibia of palpus a little longer than the patella, becoming thicker distally, tarsus as long as the two preceding joints together.
Scopus resembling that of milvina, but reaching to or beyond the exterior side of the alveolus; lower border of the inferior furrow of anterior lobe developed at the exterior side into a dorsally concave, boat^shaped structure which at the exterior end is keeled and bears below a short rounded flap, the upper margin of the furrow with a strongly chitinized triangular process or tenaculum directed caudally toward the process of the inferior margin as in milvina.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
2.)
Total length, 4.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.3 mm.
; width, 1.9 mm.
Length of leg I, 7.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.5 mm.
; met., 1.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 6.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.3 mnL ; tib.
+ pat., 3.1 mm.
; met., 3.2 mm.
Syn.
— 1876.
Lycosa minima, Keyserling,Verh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 614.
1885.
Pardosa albopatella Enierton, Trans.
Conn. Oc.
Sci., 6, p. 497, PI.
94, figs.
2 to 26.
1890.
Lycosa minima, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 562. .
Pardosa albopatella, Marx, ibid., p. 565.
1890.
Pardosa albopatella.
Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 431 .
1891.
Pardosa minima, Bank.s, Ent.
News, 2.
1892.
Pardosa albopatella, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
WT, 2, p. 161.
1892.
Pardosa albopatella, Banks, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 44, p. 70. .
Pardosa annulata.
Banks, ibid., p. 68, PI.
1, fig.
41.
1895.
Pardosa minima.
Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 3, p. 91.
1900.
Pardosa minima, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 539.
1902.
Pardosa albopatella, Enierton, Common Sp.
of U. S., p. 83, figs.
205-207.
1902.
Pardosa minima, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 571, PI.
30, figs.
35, 36.
Type locality.
— Alabama.
Known localities.
— Illinois!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New Hampshire!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey!, Alabama, Kansas!, Indiana.
While the males are easily distinguishable, the females of this species and of milvina are much alike both in general appearance and in the structure of the epigyna.
Aside from the differences in the epigyna, which are difficult to state, the cephalothorax of saxatilHs is relatively higher in front and slopes more decidedly caudally and the face protrudes above more strongly.
There are constant differences in the proportions of the legs.
The markings of saxatilis are finer.
Pardosa milvina ( Kent z), 1844.
(Sub Lycosa, J. Bost.
S. N. H., Vol.
IV, p. 392, PI.
XVIII, fig.
8.)
Sides of cephalothorax deep brown to black; eye region deep black, a yellow to brown median band beginning as a rather narrow process at or behind third eye row, expanding a little posteriorly on each side and then again constricted in front of middle, expanding about dorsal groove and then narrowing again down posterior declivity; on each side a submarginal light band which in some is obscure anteriorly, but is usually distinct to clypeus in front; clypevis yellow or brown with a triangular black spot below each anterior lateral eye; sides of cephalothorax with brown pubescence, the light stripes with yellow, the clypeus with yellow and some white.
Chelicerce yellow to brown each with a short black median mark at base, clothed with whitish pubescence and sparee long brown bristles.
Endites, labium and coxce of legs yellow to brown.
Sternum usually black, often with a lighter median line in front, clothed with yellow or yellowish-white pubescence; sometimes lighter, dark brown or even yellow with or without dark spots.
Legs yellow with dark rings on all joints except the tarsi, clothed ^vith whitish and some short darker pubescence.
Abdomen above at base with a yellow to reddish-brown stripe ending in front of middle; opposite apex of basal mark an angular pale spot with dark dot in center, and behind a series of transverse rows of similar spots more or less confluent transversely as usual; often a yellow line close to and parallel with the margin of the basal mark on each side; dorsum laterally black with numerous small yellow dots; dorsum clothed with brown and white pubescence, the white in part in angular spots at sides and in transverse lines between the pale marks of tegument; sides yellow with many spots and mottlings of brown or above of black, in life covered with pubescence in intermixed spots and streaks of white and brown; venter pale, rarely dark, densely clothed with light gray pubescence.
Spinnerets yellow or light brown.
Epigynum brown, darker, reddish at margins.
Face relatively high, nearly of same height as length of chelicerae; sides nearly straight, subvertical.
Cephalothorax high, the posterior declivity very steep, in profile nearly level from third eye row to posterior declivity, slightly depressed at median furrow, sides steep.
Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, only slightly procurved; anterior median eyes nearly three-fourths their diameter apart, evidently closer to the lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes visibly smaller than the median, of usual distance from eyes of second row and from the front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row not quite once and a half their diameter apart.
Quadrangle of posterioV eyes more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Labium a little wider than long (6.25 : 6) ; basal excavation more than one-fourth the total length of labium; sides substraight, strongly converging anteriorly ; front margin slightly convex.
Legs slender; metatarsus of fourth pair of same length as tibiie and patella together; spines of anterior tibiae as usual; anterior tarsi with but very sparse scopulae at sides, posterior tarsi setose and spinulose as usual.
Epigynum with more or less evident lateral ridges, margins usually not angulate in front of middle; septal piece of guide not pointed at front of foveae, more depressed between fovese than in saxatilis.
See PI.
XIII, fig.
3.
Total length, 6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.
; Avidth, 2 mm.
Length of leg I, 9 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.3 mm.
; met., 1 .7 mm.
I>ength of leg II, 6.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.3 ; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Male.
— Darker in color than female, the cephaloihorax often nearly entirely black, especially anteriorly, with the side stripes obscured and the median light mark not extending forward beyond front end of dorsal furrow.
Abdomen often entirely black above, with light markings absent or but faintly indicated.
Tarsus of palpus always black, the other joints often so, and always darkened by black pubescence.
Tibiae of the palpus longer than the patella and distinctly broader, broadest anteriorly.
Scopus long, bent outward above but not reaching margin of alveolus; basal spur short, bent down at apex, not covered ; margin of inferior furrow of anterior lobe with a single short and stout tenaculum.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
4.)
Total length, 5.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax.
2.8 mm.
; width, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg I, 9.9 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.2 mm.
; met., 2.4 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.9 mm.
; tib.
+ pat,, 3.8 mm.
; met., 4.2 mm.
Syn.
— 1.S71.
Lycosa canadensis, Blackwall, Ann.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
VIII, pp.
4.30, 431.
1876.
Lycosa flavipes Keyserling, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 616, PI.
7, fig.
4.
1885.
Pardosa nigropalpis Enierton, Trans.
Conn.
Acad., 6, p. 497, PI.
48, fig.
3 to 3b.
1890.
Pardosa nigropalpis, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12.
— — .
Pardosa nigropalpis, Stone, Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 430.
1892.
Pardosa nigropalpis.
Banks, Trans.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 70. .
Pardosa pallida, Banks (ad.
part, in Coll.
in Univ.
Cornell), ibid., p. 68. .
Pardosa nigropalpis, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., p. 161.
1893.
Pardosa flavipes, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 1, p. 125.
1894.
Pardosa flavipes, Banks, op.
cit., 3, p. 91.
1900.
Pardosa milvina, Banks (ad.
part, max), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 539.
1902.
Pardosa nigropalpis, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad, Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 569, PI.
30, figs.
32-34. .
Pardosa scita Montgomery, ibid., p. 573, PI.
30, figs.
37, 38. .
Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton Common Sp.
of U. S., p. 83, figs.
205-207.
Type locality — Alabama.
Known localities.
— Maryland!, Illinois!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New York!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina!, Georgia!, Alabama!, Louisiana!, Mississippi!, Kansas!, Indiana!.
One of the commonest and most widely distributed of North American Pardosas.
Specimens from the South are lighter than those from the North, the sternum being frequently yellow or white without marks, and at other times being covered in varying degrees with black dots, the dots in some covering entire sternum, except for the anterior median light stripe, and in others found only in a single row along each margin.
In the same locality all gradations may be found between dark, typically colored individuals and the pale forms.
Pardosa pauxilla Mtg.
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax blackish brown or deep chocolate color; a rather wide yellow or pale brown band along each lateral margin extending forward to the clypeus which is of the same light color; eye region black; back of eyes a median dagger-shaped light brown stripe of usual character.
Chelicene yellow.
Labium, endites and coxce of legs beneath yellow or yellowish brown.
Sternum yellowish brown, blackish toward margins and with scattered black spots over the middle portion.
Legs also yellow or yellowish brown with numerous dark annuli which are deep and distinct on the femora and tibiae, but are less strong or sometimes indistinct on the metatarsi; of these annuli there are four on each femur and tibia and three on each metatarsis; each patella has a median annulus with indications in some of darkened ends.
Abdomen with dorsum black to deep brown minutely dotted with yellow; at base a yellow lanceolate stripe with an angular spot each side of apex as usual, followed behind by a series of wide chevron-marks of the ordinary character; because of the extent of the yellow markings in some the dorsum appears to be occupied over its middle region from base to spinnerets by a yellowish band which narrows caudally and encloses rather indistinct dark markings; sides of abdomen dark like the lateral portions of dorsum, but the yellow dots larger, becoming more and more extended and confluent ventrally, finally passing into the inmiaculate yellow or yellowish white venter.
Spinnerets pale brown.
Epigynum reddish brown.
Anterior row of eyes of the usual relative length and curvature; anterior median eyes fully their diameter apart, much closer to the smaller lateral eyes, their diameter or a little more from the eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes twice their diameter or a little more from the front margin of clypeus, their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row one and one-fourth times their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes longer behind than in front in ratio of 9 : 1, considerably more than one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax (1 :3.5).
Spines of tibiae of legs and clothing of tarsi as usual.
Epigi/num in shape roughly like a very wide-necked decanter, though more angular in outline; posterior foveas not sharply limited, the lateral furrows gradually narrowing cephalad to a mere line at the anterior end, the sides bulging in correspondingly on each side; guide somewhat anchor-shaped with the transverse pieces relatively short and stout, the median piece with lateral plates along entire length, these continuously narrowing cephalad until the septum at its anterior end is very narrow.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
9 .)
Total length, 5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.
; width, 1.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 7.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.6 mm.
; met., 1.5 mm.
.
Length of leg II, 7 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.2 mm.
; met., 3.3 mm.
Ma/f?.— Considerably smaller than female.
Legs yellow, entirely without rings or markings excepting the femora of the first two pairs which are black on the basal half, the black more or less interrupted by yellow laterally and below.
Palpi entirely black, clothed with dense black hair.
Median stripe of cephalothorax obscure.
Abdomen entirely black without light markings in the tegument, but in life with a row of white spots formed of bunches of hair on each side behind, with narrow transverse lines of white hair extending between the spots; venter yellow with a dark median mark more or less dilated in front of the spinnerets, clothed with white hair.
Chelicerce black except along disto-mesal side, clothed with deep brown pubescence except distally where it is gray and longer.
Bulb of palpal organ very convex, protruding conspicuously from alveolus ; scopus similar in form to that of milvina, but the basal spur cylindrical and relatively longer than in that species ; there are considerable differences in the conductors of these two species.
Total length, 4.1 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.1 nun.
; width, 1.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 5.2 mm.
Length of leg II, 5 mm.
Length of leg III, 5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 7.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.3 mm.
; met., 2.6 mm.
Locality.
— Austin, Texas !.
Fardosa banksi Chamberlin, 1904.
(Canadiitn Entomologist, Vol.
XXXVI, p.
175.)
Female.
— Eye region and sides of cephalothorax black or brownish black; on each side a distinct supramarginal yellow band which reaches to the clypeus in front; a less clearly marked median daggershaped band of brown along dorsum from posterior margin to the third eye row, this band but little wider than the lateral bands except at its expanded anterior end, where, however, its lateral portions are obscure; clypeus yellow, marked below each anterior lateral eye with a triangular black spot, the apex of which is at the eye, and the base upon the front margin of clypeus.
Chelicerce smoky yellow, with a dark line running down near the inner side and bending obliquely outward across the front face distally, there becoming indistinct; a black -line along each margin of the lateral condyle.
Sternum light brown with a black median lanceolate stripe which is divided anteriorly by a short yellow line.
Legs clear yellow or pale brown of a greenish hue, or with faint traces of rings on the posterior ones, otherwise entirely without markings.
Abdomen above black with a reddish yellow lanceolate stripe at base, with a similarly colored quadrate spot with black dot at center each side of apex, and a series of transverse yellow marks behind formed of similar spots united in pairs; an indistinct light mark joining the basal lanceolate stripe on each side near its base and another one joining it near the middle on each side, these marks formed of rows of small dots ; sides of abdomen black like the dorsum except for a yellow spot or stripe in front below each anterolateral angle; venter yellow with a brown spot enclosing spinnerets and a median dark line extending from this spot forward to the epigynum.
Anterior spinnerets brown, the posterior ones more yellow.
Epigynum light reddish brown.
Face as high as the length of the chelicerse or very nearly so; sides straight and subvertical.
Cephalothorax highest a little behind third eye row, from where in profile the dorsal line is straight to the posterior declivity.
Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second, of the usual relative length, gently procurved; anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, closer to the lateral eyes, a little more than their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes about threefourths as large in diameter as the median, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, once and a third their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes a little wider in front than long, fully one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth, of w-hich the third is but little shorter than the fii^st two ; upper margin with three teeth of the relative proportions more common in the genus Lycosa.
Tibia + patella of fourth legs of same length as the metatarsus; tibia + patella of the first pair of legs shorter than the cephalothorax; spines of the anterior tibias of usual arrangement and proportions ; all tarsi setose and spinulose, the anterior ones but thinly scopulate laterally.
Transverse piece of guide of epigynum of moderate length; septal piece evident foi-ward to the anterior end of the epigynum, with welldeveloped lateral plates along its entire length, these being behind as wide as the transverse piece of guide and gradually and continuously narrowing anteriorly.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
7.)
Total length, 5.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.7 mm.
; width, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg I, 7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.4 mm.
; met., 1.5 mm.
Length of leg II, 6.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 9.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Male.— "The male palpus from the side shows three black, rounded projections, the lower one the smallest."
(Banks.)
Length, 5 mm.
Syn.— 1896.
Pardosa littoralis Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 4, p. 192.
(Nom.
preocc.)
Tijpe locality.— J. ong Island, N. Y.
(Mill Neck).
Habitat.— Long Island (Mill Neck!, Sheepshead Bay!
), Florida!.
Found in salt marshes.
The type specimens were found in the marshes near Mill Neck in June.
The description above is based on two females from Sheepshead Bay, taken in August, 1903, (C. R. Crosby).
Pardosa moesta Banks, 1892.
(Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 70, PI.
3, fig.
44.)
Female.— Cephalothorax dark reddish brown with radiating lines of black, a pale median band which becomes darker and more obscure anteriorly; entire eye region black; in some scarcely paler above lateral margins, in others (southern specimens) with a marginal pale stripe more or less evident on each side.
Clypeus reddish yellow, the yellow area higher on each side.
Cheliceroe reddish yellow; a blackish line bordering the condyle on each side, the two lines uniting at its lower end and extending down the front of the chelicerae, Endites yellow.
Labium dark brown, paler distally.
Coxce of legs beneath yellow.
Sternum black.
Legs reddish yellow; the femora marked with dark rings which are mostly incomplete below, above often more or less diffused, the annuli thus often more or less confluent dorso-laterally, especially on the front femora; patella?
and tibiae also marked with incomplete dark rings, the first tibiae darker than others, almost wholly black.
Abdomen above black, densely minutely punctate with reddish yellow; dorsum with a faint basal spear-shaped stripe of a dusky reddish yellow color; sides of abdomen like the dorsum, but the light dots larger and more elongate; venter light reddish brown; a narrow, irregular^ edged stripe or line of black on each side, the two converging caudad, and a similar stripe along median line behind the epigynum, this stripe running to a point posteriorly, Epigynum brown of a light reddish tinge.
Face with its sides straight and nearly vertical, the chelicerae in length about one and one-fourth times longer than its height; face protruding above the eyes of the second row being borne at the ends of a bulging transverse ridge.
Cephalothorax highest at the third eye.
row, in profile the dorsal line slopes gradually to the posterior declivity, but is gently concave at the dorsal groove.
First row of eyes much shorter than the second, not fully extending from center to center of eyes of second row, procurved in usual degree ; anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, half as far from the lateral eyes, a little more than their diameter from eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes three-fourths or more as large as the median eyes, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, one and one-third times their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, half as wide again behind as in front or nearly so, the cephalothorax only 3.5 times as long.
Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three teeth, of which the first two are stout and subequal but the third much reduced ; the upper margin of the furrow with two teeth of the usual proportions.
Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair longer than the tibia -Ipatella; tibia 4patella of the first pair of the same length as the cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiae of common form, the two first pairs very long and overlapping ; tarsi with scopulae on sides of anterior ones, the posterior simply setose and spinulose.
Labium longer, wider than long, strongly attenuated anteriorly, the front margin subtruncate.
Epigyman with transverse piece of guide rather wide, the guide plates along its front side with the free margin wavy; the posterior foveas wide and conspicuous ; septal piece of guide low and narrow for most of length, extending to the anterior depression where it expands fan shape.
(PI.
XIV, fig.
9.)
Total length, 5.7 mm.
Length of the cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 2.2 mm.
Length of leg II, 8 mm.
Length of leg III, 8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 4.2 mm.
Male.
— Unknown.
Type locality.
— New York (Ithaca).
Known localities.
— New York (Ithaca!, Lake Keuka!
), District of Columbia!.
Specimens I have seen from Washington, D. C, are paler throughout than indicated in the description above, which is based on individuals from Ithaca and Penn Yan, N. Y., including one of the types.
The species is in some respects much like saxatilis.
Pardosa sternalis (Thorell), 1877.
(Sub Lycosa, Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Terr., 3, p.
504.)
Female.
— Sides of the cephalothorax and the dorsal eye area black ; a median band of brown color of reddish caste beginning back of eyes and passing posteriorly over dorsal groove and narrowing down the posterior declivity to a line; the median band at its anterior end is nearly always bifurcate, the two slender divergent processes embracing between them a similarly colored spot, with which they are connected each by a narrow line; a light brown band along each lateral border, limited below posteriorly by a black marginal line and geminated for its entire length by a second black line; the lateral bands are continuous and attain the clypeus in front which is of the same color; median light stripe with some white pubescence, but with brown hair predominating for most of its length; sides with brown pubescence; marginal light stripes clothed above and below the geminating dark line with white pubescence, the dark lines with sparser brown hair.
Chelicera> reddish yellow or light brown, normally with a blackish line along the antero-mesal line of each chelicera, this hne distaUy turning obhqiiely outward and reaching the outer side; clothed mostly with white hair except distally where brown hair and bristles are intermixed.
Labium and endites light brown, paler at tips.
Coxce of legs beneath light brown.
Sternum with ground color brown, mostly with a row of black spots along each lateral margin, and occupied over the middle region by a large black area divided by a median light line; sometimes the black area is much reduced and the yellow or brown color then predominates, but usually the black covers all but a rather narrow stripe toward each side and the mesal light line; subdensely clothed with long white or light gray hairs.
Legs light brown, all joints except tarsi marked with black annuli which^are close together on the proximal joints, which in consequence often appear very dark; the metatarsus has three well-separated dark annuli and appears paler Uke the tarsi; black rings of femora more or less broken ventrally.
Abdomen above blackish; a very distinct yellow or pale brown lanceolate median stripe at base, mth an obliquely placed yellow angular spot of usual type each side of apex, and behind a series of four or five similar and obliquely placed pairs of spots, the pairs more or less confluent mesally, into anteriorly pointed chevron-shaped cross-bands ; a yellow mark each side of base of the median lanceolate stripe; dorsum for the most part covered with brown pubescence, but each side of lanceolate mark a row of spots formed by bunches of white hair, and behind but more widely separated two similar rows of lateral white spots with sometimes a median row of similarly formed white marks; sides below yellow or pale brown clothed with brown pubescence intermixed in spots and streaks with white, which becomes more abundant below and entirely clothes the venter; tegument of venter yellowish, sometimes with four rows of small brown dots which converge posteriorly.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigi/num light reddish brown, darker marginally.
Sides of face steep, but little rounded and slanting outward below; moderate in height, the chelicerse once and a half as long as its height or nearly so.
Dorsal line of cephalothorax nearly straight and level to the posterior declivity.
Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second, reaching but little beyond centers of eyes of the latter, slightly procurved ; anterior median eyes fully their diameter apart, half so far from the but slightly smaller lateral eyes, their diameter or slightly less from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes not fully twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, rather more than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Upper margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth as in Lycosa; lower margin with three teeth, of which the median one is stoutest and some longest, the first well separated from it but the third contiguous with it at base, the latter tooth reduced but not so much as in most Pardosas.
Labium clearly wider than long (6.5 : 6) ; basal excavation one-fourth the total length; strongly attenuated anteriorly, the sides straight or toward the middle weakly concave, anterior margin truncated or very slightly convex.
Legs with tibia + patella of fourth pair of same length as the metatarsus ; tibia + patella of the first legs of same length or a little shorter than the cephalothorax ; tarsi clothed as usual ; spines of anterior tibiae as usua.
(PI.
VIII, figs.
7 and 9.)
Epigynum pentagonal in form, its anterior portion triangular; posterior foveas relatively small, abruptly depressed, each roughly pentagonal in shape with the longest side along the septal piece of guide ; lateral ridges behind narrow, converging but rather widely separated behind, not bent abruptly inward toward each other as in atra.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
5.)
Total length, 7 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.8 mm.
; met., 1.9 mm.
Length of leg II, 8.1 mm.
Length of leg III, 9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.7 mm.
; met., 3.7 mm.
Male.
— Cephalothorax darker than in the female, the median band obscure and usually not at all evident except caudally and about the dorsal furrow; lateral pale bands narrower and more obscure and the marginal dark line or stripe wider.
Chelicerce black or brownish black except distally and along the mesal surface.
Sternum entirely black.
Abdomen above entirely black, showing no markings; venter dusky brown to gray black; pubescence, as also of cephalothorax, as in female.
Legs with femora above black or nearly so except distal, also usually paler beneath; more distal joints of two anterior pairs of legs pale, with faint annuli or entirely unmarked, the corresponding joints on the posterior legs darker but also with markings faint.
Palpi entirely black except the patellae which are light brown.
Tibia of palpus a little longer than the patella and stouter distally.
Scopus very long, curving obliquely forward and outward quite across the bulb.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
6.)
Total length, 6.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.7 mm.
; tib.
-f pat., 3 mm.
; met., 2.2 mm.
Length of leg 11, 8.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 11.4 mm, ; tib.
+ pat., 3,5 mm.
; met., 3.5 mm, Syn.— 1890.
Lycosa sternalis, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N, M., 12, p. .563.
1894.
Pardosa sternalis, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 2, p. 51.
1894.
Pardosa coloradensis Banks (at least ad.
part, magn.
), J. N. Y. Ent, Soc, 2, p. 51.
1895.
Pardosa coloradensis Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., S, p. 429 (Jrs.).
1895.
Pardosa luteola, Banks, but not Emerton, loc.
rit.
1904.
Pardosa sternalis, Chambeilin, Can.
Ent., pp.
147 and 175.
Type locality.
— Colorado.
Known localities.
— Colorado!, Utah!, Idaho!, Kansas!, Iowa!, A strongly marked species very common in the West.
Specimens of coloradensis Bks, in Mr. Banks' collection, which he kindly permitted me to study, are the not fully mature individuals of the species above described, Pardosa atra Banks, 1894.
(J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, Vol.
2, p.
52.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax brownish black, lighter brown along the middle, and with a few indistinct paler marks at borders especially behind, not rarely a pale transverse stripe entirely across the posterior margin; eye region deep black; median light band constricted in front of dorsal groove, becoming anteriorly very dark or obscure.
Cephalothorax with median band and side marks in life clothed with whitish or light gray pubescence, the hair elsewhere dark brown ; the entire eye region with numerous long dark bristles which project forward.
Chelicerce blackish, reddish brown distally.
Labium and endites deej) brown to blackish.
Sternum black, Coxce of legs beneath brown suffused with blackish.
Legs blackish, paler distally; the femora witli a few mottlings of reddish brown, the other joints indistinctly or obscurely annulate with the same color; legs densely pubescent and with numerous long erect black bristles.
Dorsum of abdomen black ; a paler reddish-brown spear-shaped mark at base; the basal stripe contiguous at its apex with a large pale spot on each side, these spots with the characteristic black dot at center; posteriorly two rows of similar spots which are confluent at the mesal line in pairs, thus forming a series of wide chevron-formed marks; dorsum at sides with rather large reddish brown dots or spots, the entire dorsum often appearing reddish brown covered over with an irregular network of black; sides similar to lateral portions of dorsum but light color more abundant venter of abdomen brown except along sides where are some irregular black marks.
Epigynum and spinnerets fuscous.
Face of average height and shape.
First row of eyes but shghtly prociirved, much shorter than the second ; anterior median eyes about their diameter apart, only half so far from the lateral eyes, of usual distance from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes situated as usual; eyes of the second row more than their diameter apart, half as far again from the eyes of the much wider third row; quadrangle of posterior eyes not entirely onefourth as long as the cephalothorax.
Labium much wider than long (8.25 : 6.5) ; basal excavation very short, scarcely more than one-sixth the length of the labium ; labium anteriorly strongly attenuated, sides rounded just above basal notch, but above nearly straight for most of length; antero-lateral angles widely rounded; front margin gently widely incurved.
(PI.
YIII, fig.
3.)
Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair of the same length as the metatarsus ; tibia + patella of the first pair clearly shorter than the length of the cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiae of usual form and arrangement; tarsi of anterior pairs Avith thin scopulse at sides.
Eipigynum a strongly chitinized suboval area which is truncate behind ; the posterior foveas relatively small, circular, deep and abruptly delimited; lateral ridges bent inward toward each other behind, the space between their ends occupied by the posterior end of the short clavate guide which separates the foveae; the anterior and greater area of the epigynum scarcely depressed each side of the median line.
(PI.
XIII, fig.
8.)
Total length, 9 mm.
Length of the cephalothorax, 3.S nun.
; width, 2.9 mm.
Length of leg I, 9.8 mm., tib.
+ pat., 3.3 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 4 nmi^ Type locality.
— Colorado.
Known localities.
— Colorado!, Utah!, In some respects this species is like granlandica.
The cephalothorax is smaller with the head narrower and more elevated.
It is also darker and its markings are less distinct.
The epigynum seems constant in its form and is easily distinguished from that of grcenlandica.
The median piece of guide at times is similarly soiuewhat elevated anteriorly.
13 Pardosa emertoni Chamberlin, 1904.
(Can.
Entomologist, Vol.
XXXVI, p.
175.)
Cephalothorax with a deep brown longitudinal band enclosing the eyes of each side and extending to the posterior end of cephalothorax, the two leaving between them and also along each border a yellow band, the two dark bands and the three yellow bands being of approximately the same width ; each marginal band is bisected posteriorly by a dark siipramarginal line; the median band often of a reddish tinge; the lateral dark bands united in front across the face, enclosing the eyes of the first and second rows, the median pale band narrowing and ending in a point between the second and third eye rows; marginal bands continuous in front with the j^ellow clypeus; in life the yellow bands covered with white pubescence, which extends also from median band forward between ej'^es to clypeus ; sides of cephalothorax covered with brown pubescence.
Chelicerce yellow, with sparse white hair and long dark brown bristles.
Labium brown.
Endites and coxob of legs beneath yellow.
Sternum yellow, with four rows of black spots which converge posteriorly, the two inner rows uniting posteriorly into a single line ; clothed with white hair.
Legs yellow to brown ; the femora above dark, blackish, or with blackish streaks, but pale beneath ; tibiae and tarsi of posterior pairs sometimes darkened; clothed with white pubescence and some sparser dark hairs.
Abdomen with a black band across the anterior face which extends backward on each side across the antero-lateral angle as a narrow stripe which reaches to the spinnerets, the two black stripes leaving a wide reddish yellow median band which is widest in front; in the basal portion of the dorsal yellow band are two black lines or rows of black dots which meet in a point at the middle forming thus a spear-shaped outline; behind the dorsal band is more or less indistinctly divided by narrow transverse lines into segments which contain each two minute black dots; sides of abdomen pale yellow with numerous small black spots which are more scattered ventrally and which are absent from a spot beneath each antero-lateral angle; venter pale or whitish yellow with two rows of black spots converging from the genital furrow to the spinnerets; abdomen with the dark bands and spots clothed with brown hair, elsewhere densely clothed with white hair which gives its color to the abdomen in life or when dry.
Spinnerets yellow.
Epigynum yellow, darker marginall}-.
Cephalothorax highest between eyes of second and third rows, concave between eyes of third row and the posterior declivity.
Face high, as high as the length of the chelicerce which are small and narrowed distallv.
First row of eyes much shorter than the second, hardly or not quite extending from center to center of the eyes of the latter row, a little procurved; anterior median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart, somewhat closer to the smaller lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, once and a half their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior median eyes more than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row some less than once and a half their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes rather more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Labium evidently wider than long (5.75 : 5) ; basal excavation about one-fifth the total length of labium; labium in front of excavations broadly cordate, the sides converging to a rounded point in front (PL VIII, fig.
6), in middle region substraight but above convexly curving to the middle point.
Legs slender, metatarsus longer than tibia + patella of the fourth pair; the two latter joints together clearly longer than the cephalothorax ; tibia -\patella of first legs of nearly same length as the cephalothorax ; spines and scopulse of usual character.
Septal piece of the guide of the epigynum in front rather narrow with sides subparallel, but posteriorly abruptly and widely expanded into a circular lobe which covers over most of the caudal portion of the epigynum.
(PI.
XIV, fig.
1.)
Total length, 6.3 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.9 mm.
; width, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg I, S.S mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 8.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.8 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Male.
— Male palpi black distally; front legs and head darker than in the female, but otherwise there is not much difference between them.
The scopus of the palpal organ is very long and wide and curved obliquely outward across the bulb.
Syn.
— 18S5.
Pardosa -pallida Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 496, PI.
49, figs.
3 to 3c.
(Nom.
preocc.
by P. pallida Walck., 1837.)
1890.
Pardosa pallida, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. N., 12, p. 56.5.
1892.
Pardosa pallida, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 68.
1903.
Pardosa pallida, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 653, PL 29, fig.
3.
Type locality.
— New Hampshire.
Known localities.
— New Hampshire!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York!, District of Columbia!, Ontario!, Manitoba!.
Pardosa distincta (Blackwall), 1846.
(Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
XVII, pp.
.32, 33.)
Female 6 mm.
long; light yellow with brown markings.
The cephalothorax has two wide brown longitudinal stripes united at the front of the head where they are nearly black, and a fine dark line each side next the legs.
The sides of the abdomen are brown, with a very distinct light spot over the dorsal vessel, and a row of transverse light spots behind.
The sternum is brown with a light spot in the middle.
The abdomen is light beneath with a narrow brown stripe half its length on each side.
The epigynum is bright orange brown, and the front pair of spinnerets are black.
The legs are spotted with brown, the spots sometimes grouped in rings; the tibiae are the darkest parts of the legs.
The epigynum has the guide short and wide, but this part is transparent and the overlapping sides are not easily seen, so that it aj)pears narrow.
(PI.
XV, fig.
8.)
In the male the cephalothorax and abdomen are darker, and the legs lighter except at the base, where the upper sides of the coxae and part of the femora are darker than in the female.
The head and palpi are black, with the patella and tibia a little lighter on top and probabl}^ having some light hairs when alive.
The male palpi are large, the tarsus being about as long as tibia and patella.
The palpal organ is dark colored and projects a little from the bowl of the tarsus.
The basal hook is rounded in the middle and curves in a hook toward the base.
(PI.
XV, fig.
9.)
This species is about the same size and color as P. pallida Emerton of New England.
The sternum is dark with a light median stripe on its front half, while in pallida the sternum is light with four dark lines or rows of spots converging behind .
In the males the palpi, mandibles and maxillae are darker than in pallida.
The epigynum resembles that of pallida, but is shorter and wider.
The male palpi have the scopus short and turned down at the point, while in pallida it is long and slender, and extends across the whole width of palpus.
(Emerton.)
Svn.
— 1894.
Pardosa luteola Emerton, Trans.
Conn.
Acad., Vol.
9, p. 427 " PI.
3, fig.
7.
Locality.
— Canada.
Pardosa californica Keyserling, 1887.
(Verh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 37, p. 483, PI.
6, fig.
44.)
Female (type).
— Sides of cephalothorax dark brown, the eye region black; a ihedian light yellowish brown band of the usual dagger shape, produced anteriorly as a tongue-like process between the eyes of the third row, this process divided by a median black line produced backward from in front; behind the third eye row the median band is abruptly extended laterally on each side, the widened region being nearly though not fully as wide as the third eye row, the band then again abruptly narrowed until but half so wide, continuing of this width about the dorsal furrow, then passing down the posterior declivity and narrowing to an acute point near the posterior margin; on each side a marginal light band which extends for the entire length and attains the clypeus in front, the band interrupted and sometimes obscured by brown spots; clypeus pale, but with a triangular black spot below each anterior lateral eye, the apex of the spot, as usual, being upward and contiguous with the black surrounding the eyes.
ChelicercB light reddish yellow; each at base with a black mark or line which passes obliquely outward and distally, and with a larger mark parallel with the first beginning at the inner side near the middle and running obliquely outward and distally.
Labium and endites with yellow background, which in each case is nearly covered over by a central black area.
Sternum yellow with a large black spot on each side extending from the middle to the front margin, leaving the median area yellow; behind with numerous minute dark dots.
Coxm of legs beneath smoky yellow.
Legs reddish yellow, all joints except the tarsi with rather heavy black rings, these rings being incomplete on the femora along the postero-inferior face except at the distal end.
Palpi colored like legs, but annuli less heavy.
Abdomen above and on the sides black with numerous minute reddish yellow dots; dorsum at base with a reddish-yellow spear-shaped stripe reaching caudad to the middle; near each lateral margin of the basal stripe toward the front is a row of two or three black spots, and each side of its apex is an obliquel,y placed angular light spot enclosing a central black spot; on the posterior portion of dorsum a series of several chevron-marks, each seemingly formed by the coalescence at the mesal line of two black centered, angular light spots such as found each side of apex of the basal mark; venter yellow, darker about the sides and caudad and with a median dark stripe as wide as epigynum in front, but narrowing to a truncate end behind and not reaching to the spinnerets.
Epigynum light reddish brown.
Sides of face nearly straight, steep but not vertical, in height considerably shorter than the length of the chelicerse.
Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, not extending more than between the centers of eyes of the latter, gently procurved ; anterior median eyes more than three-fourths their diameter apart, about two-thirds as far from the scarcely smaller lateral eyes, fully their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, slightly more than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, wider behind than in front in the ratio of 4 : 3, some more than one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax.
Chelicerce with furrows armed below as usual with three teeth, of which the middle is a little longest, the third not very much reduced ; the upper margin with three teeth of which the first is minute.
Tibia + patella of fourth legs of same length as the metatarsus; tibia + patella of first pair of same length as the cephalothorax; legs of fourth pair four times as long as the cephalothorax; tarsi as usual in the genus, those of the first two pairs of legs being scopulate laterally, those of the posterior pairs simply setose; tibia) of first and second pairs of legs with three pairs of spines below as is normal, the two first pairs of these very long and overlapping; all tarsi straight or nearly so.
Epigynum presenting no distinct lateral ridges posteriorly; lateral plates of the guide very wide, extending laterally to or nearly to the ends of the transverse piece and nearly as wide in front as behind, covering over nearly completely the posterior half of the epigynal area.
(PL XIV, fig.
5.)
Total length, 6.8 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.9 mm.
; width, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.9 mm.
; met., 1.9 mm.
Length of leg II, 8 mm.
Length of leg III, 8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.6 mm.
; met., 3.6 mm, Male (type).
— Cephalothorax in color drab brown, with the head region black; a narrow and short, inconspicuous median stripe over the dorsal groove but not distinguishable in front of it, narrowing behind as in female, not reaching posterior margin; marginal pale bands nearly as in the female but obscured anteriorly.
Clypeus not pale, black like head region.
Labium and endites blackish, pale distally.
Sternum nearly as in female.
Palpi entirely black.
Legs yellow, the femora with inconspicuous black marks above, other joints with dark circular lines about bases of the spines but otherwise unmarked.
Abdomen much as in female but with the markings much obscured, Scopus of palpal organ short and blunt, much as in lapidicina; anterior margin of conductor much thickened, presenting three fleshy lobes with apices projecting backward over the furrow.
Syn.
— 1890.
Pardosa californica, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12.
1904.
Pardof.a californica, Chamberlin, Canadian Ent., p. 14fi.
Tijpe locality.
— California.
Known localities.
— California!, Utah!.
This is a common Pardosa on the Pacific Coast.
Specimens from Utah are lighter colored than those which I have seen from California (including Keyserling's types, described above, which have of course darkened in the alcohol).
In the Utah specimens the lateral yellow stripes are wide, with the upper margin sinuous and with a black line along the lower, a somewhat indistinct and irregular black line dividing the stripes longitudinally; endites yellow; labium and sternum brown, the latter usually not showing the black markings as described above for the type; chevron-marks of dorsum containing each from two to four black dots, as if formed by the confluence of as many light, blackcentered dots; sides gray black with numerous minute brown dots; venter immaculate light gray or with a few small dark dots back of epigynum and at each side; spinnerets pale yellow, Cephalothorax in life clothed with light gray and brown hair, the sides with brown, the median band especially posteriorly with gray, and the lateral stripes with gray except along the geminating dark line, the median stripe in front with brown and gray pubescence intermixed.
Chelicerce with light gray hair and long brown bristles.
Sternum and legs with light gray hair, the latter with longer brown bristles.
Abdomen clothed above with chiefly light brown hair, light gray or white hair in spots on each side and forming some transverse lines posteriorly, scattered longer dark brown bristles; sides of abdomen with brown and gray pubescence intermixed in streaks and spots; venter with hair unmixed gray.
Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, 1885.
(Trans.
Conn.
Acad., 6, p. 491, PI.
48, figs.
5 to 5c.)
Female.
— Sides of the cephalothorax black; a lighter, though sometimes indistinct or even obscure median band of dark reddish brown color which begins as a narrow process between the posterior eyes, behind the third eye row abruptly widens and is constricted in front of dorsal furrow, at the caudal end of which it is strongly narrowed, its margin more or less dentate; on each side, at least posteriorly, a row of supramarginal light spots which are sometimes obscured , but in others are long and distinct; eyes surrounded with black; labium black, not paler than sides of cephalothorax; sides of cephalothorax clothed densely with rather long gray or brownish gray to blackish pubescence, which quite eonceals the Ught markings of the tegument and gives the cephalothorax a uniform grayish black a])pearance.
Chelicerce reddish brown to reddish yellow, usually with a black median mark at base, clothed densely with white pubescence, with sparse longer dark brown bristles.
Endites yellow or light brown, paler apically, often dusky.
Labium deeper colored than endites, dark brown to black.
Sternum black, clothed subdensely with short whitish or light gray pubescence.
liBgs yellow to brown; on all joints except the tarsi with black annuli which are broadest proximall}', being on the femora often confluent below and laterally, leaving light spots only above ; the legs have usually a bluish or greenish-gray hue proximally, especially on ventral surface.
Abdomen with tegument above and over sides bluish black, a blackmargined lanceolate mark at base above, followed on each side behind by a row of irregular pale spots; the median region behind, in some with, but in others without, irregular light chevron-marks, enclosing the characteristic dark spots, in some pale specimens entire dorsum and sides with many light spots, irregularly connected above into a network; venter light brown, of bluish to greenish gray cast, rarely black, in some a dark median band behind spinnerets; dorsum and sides covered with brown and grayish pubescence, the venter with grayish.
Face moderately high, the sides substraight and very steep, nearly vertical.
First row of eyes much shorter than the second, but little procurved ; anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, evidently closer to the lateral eyes, than which they are slightly larger; anterior lateral eyes, as usual, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, their diameter from e3'es of second row; eyes of second row about once and a quarter their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes onefourth as long as the cephalothorax, a little wider in front than long.
Chelicerce armed as typical for the genus, having two teeth above and three below with the third reduced.
Labium wider than long in ratio of about 9 :8.25; basal excavation one-fourth total length, strongly attenuated anteriorly; the front margin nearly straight, slightly incurved mesally.
Legs long and slender ; metatarsus of fourth pair longer than tibia + patella of same pair; spines below on anterior tibiae as usual; scopulae of typical form.
Epigynum with the guide inversely T-shaped ,the median piece pointed anteriorly and not extending into front portion of depression, which is thus undivided ; transverse arms widest distally ; lateral plates of guide verv narrow.
(PI.
XIV, fig.
7.)
Total length, 9.3 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.
; width, 3 mm.
Length of leg I, 13.1 mm.
: tib.
+ pat., 4.8 mm.
; met., 3.5 mm.
Length of leg II, 12.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 12.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 7.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.3 mm.
; met., 5.5 mm.
Male.— Colov much as in female but darker and the markings more obscure ; the legs often almost entirely black, showing no annulations except distally or none at all.
Tarsus of palpus black, as also the femur and often the tibia, the patella lighter.
Smaller than female.
Tibia of palpus with sides substraight, enlarging from base to apex, clearly narrower than the tarsus.
Scopus very short, about as broad as long, distally rounded and a little uncate at exterior side; spur usually in front concealed by fold ; embolus short, extending but little beyond middle; conductor divided into two open furrows by a narrow chitinous ridge extending obliquely downward and outward, the posterior margin of the exterior furrow with two short, uncate tenacula close together or in part overlapping.
(PI.
XIV, fig.
8.)
Total length, 6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.3 mm.
; met., 2.9 mm.
.
Length of leg II, 10.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.3 mm.
; met., 4.4 mm, Svn.— 1892.
Pardosa lapidicina, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 161.
— — .
Pardosa lapidicina, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 6S.
.
Pardosa ohsolcta Banks, ibid., p. 71, PI.
3, fig.
4.5. .
Pardosa venusta Banks, ibid., p. 69, PI.
1, figs.
42, 42a.
1894.
Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 428.
1902.
Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S., p. 78, figs.
186, 187, 188.
1903.
Pardosa lapidicina, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 652, PL 29, figs.
6, 9.
1904.
Pardosa mercurialis Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 270, PI.
XIX, figs.
20, 21. .
Pardosa iexana Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, p. 115, PI.
V, fig.
4.
Type locality.
— Massachusetts and Connecticut.
//abi'^o/.— Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, Canada, New York !, New Jersey !, District of Columbia !, Pennsylvania, Indiana !, Iowa !, Kansas !, Arkansas !, Texas !.
A very familiar species in the Northern States, found among stones along streams and also to some extent remote from water in diy places.
Its general dark gray color blends well with the color of the stones among which it lives .
Specimens from the West and South are commonly much lighter than specimens from the Northeast, and in them the marginal spots on the cephalothorax form a band except for narrow dark cross-lines; the legs are more conspicuously annulate, the light rings contrasting more strongly with the dark.
As other species having the same range as lapidicina undergo similar changes in brightness of color, and especially since the light form of lapidicina and all intermediate forms are not rare in the North, the Western specimens of this Pardosa ought not to be granted rank as separate species or variety.
Type specimens of venusta Bks.
that I have seen are not fully adult, and agree perfectly with immature specimens of lapidicina.
Pardosa xerampelina (Keyserling), 1876.
(Sub Lijcosa, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 622, PI.
7, fig.
S.) Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax and eye region black or deep brown; clypeus light brown; no distinct lateral light stripes, but sometimes a few obscure light spots above margin on each side posteriorly ; a median reddish brown band which is widest about the dorsal groove, behind which it is strongly and more or less abruptly narrowed, the light median band mostly dull and inconspicuous ; in life the cephalothorax is clothed along sides and on head and over median band behind by whitish pubescence, the other parts clothed with brown and black hair.
Chelicerce reddish brown, each with a short longitudinal yellowish stripe above or at middle.
Labium and endites brown, paler at tip.
Sternum dark reddish brown to blackish brown, an obscure median pale line anteriorly; clothed with light gray pubescence.
Coxce of legs beneath brown.
Legs yellow to brown; all joints excepting the tarsi ringed with black; the femora dorsally are distinctly darker than the other joints; clothed with brown and light gray pubescence, the gray over the light parts, the brown over the darker.
Abdomen above black or nearly so ; a lanceolate basal mark of brown ; basal stripe joined at two points on each side near its apex by the ends of a V-shaped mark the apex of which is directed laterally ; posteriorly a series of light transverse more or less chevron-shaped markings; all markings of dorsum more or less faint; sides of abdomen and part of the venter about the spinnerets black, the venter elsewhere being light brown; abdomen clothed above with brown pubescence with a row of small spots of whitish hair along each side; venter of abdomen clothed with light gray pubescence.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum brown, with the depression showing as a distinctly darker V-shaped figure with apex caudal.
Face high, the chelicerte but little longer than its height; sides of face substraight, steep but a little slanting outward from above dowm^ ard.
Dorsal line of cephalothorax in profile straight in front of the dorsal furrow, at which it is but slightly depressed.
Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second in the usual degree, only slightly procurved ; anterior median eyes four-fifths their diameter apart, much closer to the but slightly smaller lateral eyes, their diameter from eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes fully twdce their diameter from front margin of clypeus, once and a half their diameter from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax.
Margins of furrow of chelicerce armed as usual.
Labium wider than long, strongly attenuated, anteriorly trimcated or a little concave.
Legs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair shorter than the metatarsus; tibia + patella of the first pair shorter than the cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiae as usual, the first two pairs long and overlap^ ping; tarsi clothed in the common manner, EpigTjnum clearly wider in front than posteriorly; guide widest anteriorly narrowing caudally, the transverse arms of guide short, the guide plates extending to their ends; lateral ridges but weakly elevated.
(PI.
XIV, fig.
3.)
Total length, 8 nun.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.
; width, 2.6 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.2 mm.
; tib+ pat., 3.3 mm.
; met., 2.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 14 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 4.3 mm.
Male.
— Smaller than the female but differing but little in coloration.
"The male palpi are long and the joints scarcely enlarged."
(PI.
XIV, fig.
4.)
Small specimens are 5 mm.
long.
Syn.— 1877.
Lycosa impavida Thorell, Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Terr., Vol.
3, p. 513.
1878.
Lycosa tachypoda Thorell, Am.
Nat., June, 1878.
1885.
Pardosa monlana Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 498, PI.
49, figs.
5, 5a.
1890. lAjcosa xerampelina, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12. .
Lycosa impavida, Mavx, ibid.. .
Lycosa tachypoda, Marx, ibid.
.
Pardosa montana, Mar.x, ibid.
1892. ?
Pardosa ynontana, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 70.
1894.
Pardosa tachypoda, Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 427, PI.
3, figs.
6, 6a.
1895.
Pardosa impavida, Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., Vol.
8, p. 430.
1902.
Pardosa tachypoda and montana, Emerton, Common Sp.
of U. S., p. 81, figs.
193 to 196.
1902.
Pirata procursus Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 583, PI.
30, fig.
48.
Type locality.
— Illinois.
Known localities.
— New Hampshire!, Massachusetts, Illinois, Colorado!, Utah!, New York?, Pennsylvania, Canada.
Essentially a Northern and mountain species.
It is not unconnnon in Canada and in the ^^Tiite Mountains of New England, but does not occur commonly more southward.
It also ranges south from Canada along the Rocky Mountains, and is common in Colorado and Utah.
Pardosa groenlandica(Thorell), 1872.
(Sub Lycosa, Ofvers.
af.
Vet.
Akad.
Forh., 29.)
Fetnalc.
— Cephalothorax black or nearly so; a lighter, brown median band beginning only a little in front of dorsal furrow, passing over the latter and then narrowing to a Hne on the posterior declivity ; from the front of the median band a horn-shaped yellow mark extends outward and forward on each side toward the corresponding eye of the third row, which, however, it does not reach; more rarely these hornlike marks are obscure or quite absent; a row of three or less commonly four curved light marks above the margin of each side; hair of cephalothorax long, brown and light gray or whitish intermixed, the whitish hair more or less unmixed with brown on the clypeus, the light supramarginal marks and on the median light area behind.
Chelicerm reddish-yellow or brown above and black distally, the lighter color often reduced to a few spots; clothed with short light gray hair and longer brown bristles.
Labium and endites brown, lighter at tips.
Sternum black, clothed with gray hair.
Coxa; of legs beneath brown.
Legs brown, mostly of a reddish hue; all joints, excepting tarsi, with distinct black annulations; clothed with brown and whitish hair, chiefly over the dark and light parts respectively.
Palpi brown; femora ringed with black; patella unmarked; tibise black at proximal end and the tarsi black at tips.
Abdomen above black or blackish brown, the tegument either entirely without light markings or with a lanceolate basal mark of reddish-brown color ; each side of this mark at its base may be a spot of the same color, as also an obscure smaller spot each side of apex behind; more rarely there may be distinguishable posteriorly a lumiber of obscure light spots more or less confluent in pairs; abdomen covered above with brown hair, with bunches of white hair forming a row of white spots along each side; sides of abdomen above like the dorsum, below light brown with numerous darker, reddish-brown or rust-colored spots usually connected into a continuous network; sides covered with brown and white hair intermixed in streaks and spots and quite concealing the tegument and its markings; venter brown, with in most a median and on each side a lateral stripe of reddish-brown or rust color behind genital furrow, these stripes formed by a close network; venter clothed with white hair.
Spinnerets brown, the anterior ones frequently darker or even blackish.
Epigynuju reddish brown.
Chelicerae rather long for a Pardosa, once and a fourth or more times as long as the height of the face; sides of face nearly straight, steep.
Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, slightly procurved; anterior median eyes their diameter apart or nearly so, rather less than half as far from the lateral eyes, their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes but slightly smaller than the median, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus and their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row a little more than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Chelicem with the lower margin armed with three teeth of usual proportions, the upper with two.
Labium as wide as long or slightly wider (8 : 7.8); basal excavation about one-fourth or slightly more the length of the labium; strongly attenuated anteriorly; the sides rounded below but straight or substraight above; front margin straight or very slightly incurved.
Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair longer than the tibia + patella ; tibia + patella of the first pair of the same length as the cephalothorax; spines of tibife as usual; tarsi clothed as common in the genus.
Epigynum somewhat flaskor decanter-shaped, being narrow in front but widely rounded behind ; lateral furrows narrow and shallow in front, widely expanded behind; septum high, narrow in front and more or less clavately widening caudally, higher than the transverse arms, which are dark in color, more or less roinided above and bent backward distally, their ends fitting into excavations in the lateral ridges.
( PI.
XIV, fig.
6.)
Total length, 10.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 mm.
; width, 3.7 mm.
Length of leg I, 13 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.2 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Length of leg II, 12.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 12.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 17.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.4 mm.
; met., 5.8 mm.
Male.— Color in general as in the female though rather darker; palpi entirely black and black-haired or with the patella paler above; legs darker than in female, the light markings being more reduced.
The cephalothorax is a little longer than the tibia + patella of the first legs.
Legs a little longer relatively than in the female.
Palpi thick and short; patella as long as the tibia which is gradually dilated distally; tarsus as long as the two preceding joints taken together.
The scopus is short and blunt, its basal spur straight.
Total length, 9.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.
; width.
3.5 mm.
Length of leg I, 13 mm.
Length of leg II, 13 mm.
Length of III, 13.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 17.75 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5 mm.
Syn.— 1877.
Lycosa tristis Thorell, Bull.
U. S. G. Surv.
Terr., Vol.
3, No.
2, p. 510. .
Lycosa indigatrix Thorell, ibid., p. 512. .
Lycosa iracunda Thorell, ibid., p. 514. .
Lycosa sinistra Thorell, ibid., p. 517.
1878.
Lycosa dromoea Thorell, Am.
Nat., June.
1885.
Pardosa albomaculata Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., U, p. 495, PI.
48, figs.
3 to 36.
1890.
Lycosa groenlandica, tristis, indigatrix, iracunda, sinistra, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, pp.
562, 563. .
Pardosa albomacidala, Marx, ibid., p. 565.
1894.
Pardosa groenlandica, Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 423, PI.
4, figs.
1 to 1/.
.
Pardosa indigatrix and iracunda.
Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 2, pp.
51 and 52.
1895.
Pardosa groenlandica and tristis, Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., 8, p. 430.
1902.
Pardosa albomaculata or groenlandica, Emerton, Common Sp.
of U. S., p. 79, figs.
189, 190.
Type locality.
— Greenland.
Known localities.
— Greenland, Canada!, New England (White Mountains) !, Colorado !, Utah !.
"Bare rocks on the upper part of the White Mountains, running very rapidly and dodging under stones at slight alarm" (Emerton).
A boreal species.
Common in the mountains of Utah and Colorado, Pardosa modica (Blackwall), 1846.
(Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
XVII, p.
33.)
Female.— Cephalothorax deep brown or black marked by two lateral and a median longitudinal pale stripe; eye region deep black; median stripe reddish brown, widest just behind third eye row, narrowed and constricted at the front end of the dorsal groove and again immediately behind it, geminated in front of the groove by a median black line; lateral pale stripes supramarginal, narrow, reaching to the clypeus in front which is likewise pale; pale stripes clothed with w^hite hair, the dark parts with brown.
Chelicerce yellowish to brown over front face, darker at tips and along a narrow stripe extending down the mesal face and turning obliquely outward below; also a dark line along exterior face.
Labium and endites brown, usually darker toward base.
Coxce of legs beneath brown.
Sternum brown, with a black stripe or row of black spots each side of the median line and a narrower black line or row of small spots along each lateral margin ; sometimes entirely black; clothed with grayish white hair.
Legs brown; femora marked above and beneath with several longitudinal black lines or narrow stripes and with cross-marks on the sides; tibiae above with a transverse black band at the proximal end, and with a median longitudinal black line extending from this to the distal end, and also with a similar black line along each lateral face; the basal black band on posterior tibiae usually half as wide as the length of the joint, narrow on anterior ones ; at least the posterior patellae with a median longitudinal black line above and a similar one at each side ; metatarsi especially of the posterior pairs with a more indistinct median dorsal line, the posterior ones also usually annulate with dark ; the femora appear evidently darker than the more distal joints and the posterior legs darker than the anterior.
Abdomen above brownish black ; a basal lanceolate stripe of reddish-brown color; a series of transverse lines behind of same color, usually more indistinct, these marks formed of two rows of converging spots as is usual ; sides of abdomen reddish brown mostly spotted with black; venter light brown, often with two dark lines close together along the median line and gradually converging caudad ; sometimes a similar dark line at each side; at other times the venter is brown without markings or with dark spots at the sides; in life the abdomen is clothed above over the dark parts with dark brown hair, the light lanceolate basal mark covered with whitish hair, and a number of transverse lines of similar light hair behind with or without a row of small white spots along each side of them.
Epigynum dark brown.
Spinnerets dark brown to black.
Cephalothorax of moderate height or rather low; in profile highest at the third eye row, the dorsal line from there to the posterior declivity nearly straight, gradually slanting, depressed each side of the dorsal groove.
Chelicerce about once and a fourth as long as the face is high; sides of face nearly straight, slightly slanting from the vertical.
Anterior row of eyes of the usual relative length and curvature ; anterior median eyes their diameter apart or nearly so, much closer to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes smaller than the median, a little more than their diameter from eyes of second row, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax, as wide in front as long.
Teeth of the margins of the furrow of the chelicercB of the typical arrangement and form.
Labium of the same width as length or nearly so; labium about four and a half times longer than its basal excavation; attenuated as usual; sides above straight; front margin straight.
Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair a little longer than the metatarsus or sometimes of the same length ; tibia + patella of the first legs evidently shorter than the cephalothorax; spines of tibiae and clothing of tarsi as usual.
The epigynum in its general form resembles that of groenlandica ; the septal piece of guide is more abruptly depressed anteriorly, usually widened into a quadrangular form at front of the wide foveas and then clavately widening caudally ; transverse arms of guide more conspicuous, strongly bent forward at their ends; posterior ends of lateral ridges more widely separated.
(PI.
XV, figs.
1 and 3.)
Total length, 9 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm.
; width, 3 mm.
Length of leg I, 9.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.3 mm.
; met., 1.7 mm, liength of leg II, 9.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.2 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Male.
— Coloration similar to that in female but darker; the median band of cephalothorax obscured in front of the dorsal groove; lateral light stripes narrow and indistinct or obscured; light markings of the abdomen indistinct.
Tibia of palpus of about the same length as the patella but evidently stouter, enlarged distad; sides of patella, seen from above, parallel; tarsus very broad, one and three-fourth times as broad as the tibia, ovate, acutely pointed.
Palpal organ very similar to that of groenlandica, but the embolus is relatively longer and there are differences in the conductor, etc.
(PI.
XV, figs.
2 and 4.)
Total length, 8 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm.
; width, 3.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.G mm.
; met., 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12 nnn.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.2 mm.
; met., 43 mm, Syn.
.
Lycosa glacialis Thorell.
Ofvers.
af.
Vet.
Akad.
Forh., 29.
1875. ?
Lycom furcifera Thorell Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
N.
Hist., 17, p. 499. .
Lycosa fusculn Thorell, ibid., p. 501 .
1877.
Lycosa concinna Thorell, Bull.
U. S. G. Surv.
Terr., 3, p. 506.
187S.
Lycosa glacialis Thorell, Am.
Xat., June.
1885.
Pardosa brunnea Enierton, Trau.s.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 495, PI.
48, figs.
4 to 4b (variety).
1890.
Lycosa glacialis concinna, fuscula and furcifera, Marx, Proc.
I,'''.
S.'N.
M., 12. .
Pardosa brunnea, Marx, ibid., p. 565.
1892.
Pardosa brunnea, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliife., 44, p. 70.
1894.
Pardosa glacialis, Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 424, PI.
4, figs.
2 to 2i.
.
Pardosa brunnea Emerton, ibid., p. 425, PI.
4, figs.
2g, 2h.
.
Pardosa conciiina, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 2, p. 51.
1895.
Pardosa concinna, Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., 8, p. 429.
1896. ?
Pardosa brunnea, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 4, p. 192.
1902.
Pardosa glacialis, or brunnea, Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S. Type locality.
— Canada.
Known localities.
— Greenland!, Canada!, Colorado, l^tah!, Idaho, Oregon, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire!.
Var.
brunnea.
— Ehierton now believes his brunnea to be a synonym of modica (glacialis).
All the specimens I have had the opportunity^ of examining from New England, however, present small differences both in epigynum and in the male palpus from specimens of modica from Greenland and Canada.
But the species is subject to much variation ; and it is uncertain whether the New England forms can be maintained more than tentatively as a distinct variety.
(PI.
XV, figs.
3 and 4.)
This species is abundant in Greenland, Canada, Colorado and Utah.
Pardosa labradorensis (Thorell), 1875.
(Sub Lycosa, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 17, p.
502.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax brownish black with three rather narrow longitudinal bands covered with whitish hair, the middle one reaching to the pars cephalica, trimcated and geminated anteriorly, narrowing backwards, the lateral bands supramarginal, continuous, rather uneven in the upper margin.
Chelicerce dull yellowish or ferruginous brown.
Labium blackish, with pale apex.
Endites dark yellowish brown, their palpi of the same color, the femoral joint with blackish longitudinal streaks and spots.
Sternum black.
Legs of a dark and dull yellowish brown, the femora with dark streaks and spots above and on the sides, limiting above two large oblong pale spots divided longitudinally by a fine black line; the patellae and tibiae have each three blackish longitudinal lines.
Abdomen brownish, with traces of a short white band at the anterior margin of the dorsum.
Epigynum ferruginous.
Spinnerets blackish.
Cephalothorax rather long and narrow, with the sides of the pars cephalica almost perpendicular.
14 The anterior row of eyes but veiy slightly, scarcely j^erceptibly, curved forwards, its central eyes of the same size as (at least not greater than) the laterals, and somewhat more distant from each other than from the lateral eyes ; eyes of the second series separated by an interval not much (about one-fourth) greater than their diameter.
Chelicerm narrow, but slightly convex longitudinally; their length is greater than the height of the face and the length of tlie patellai.
Labium with slightly rounded apex.
Seen from the under side the anterior tihice show four pairs of spines, the third pair belonging to the sides of the joint.
The e-pigynum forms no deep fovea, as in P. fuscula, ex.gr., the elevated area shows, when the hair is rubbed off, a sj-^stem of short furrows and impressions rather difficult to describe, and forming a large oblong figure, rather narrow in its anterior half, then dilated gradually with rounded sides, and truncated behind ; the anterior part, which is divided from the posterior by a large but not deep transverse depression, shows two longitudinal parallel furrows, the anterior apices of which are rounded; the narrow interval between these furrows is pointed anteriorly, and has in the middle a very fine longitudinal furrow ; the posterior broad part of the epigynum shows on each side a deep, oblique, incurved, crescent-formed fovea; the space between these fovese is triangular, with the apex directed backward, and divided by a deep middle longitudinal furrow.
Total length, 6.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.25 mm.
; width, 2.25 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.75 mm.
Length of leg II, 8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.75 mm.
Male.— A male thought to belong to this species differs by the cephalothorax being of a purer black, with the lateral bands less distinct.
The legs, which have the same markings as in the female, are of a clearer yellowish-brown color than in that sex, but darker at the base; the coxae are black above and blackish beneath, the thighs also blackish on the under side towards the base; the tarsi are yellowish brown scarcely black at the extreme apex (as in the female).
The palpi are very dark yellowish brown (the tibial joint almost black) with black lines, and the tarsal joint quite black; the tibial joint is thickly clothed with black hair; also the other joints are black-haired.
The abdomen has a very distinct narrow band at base covered with whitish hair; venter blackish.
The patella of the palpus is somewhat longer than broad, cylindrical ; tibia scarcely longer than the patella but broader, being slightly and gradually dilated toward the apex; the tarsus is as long as the two preceding joints together, almost pear-shaped.
The genital bulb is very high at the base on the under side, this elevated part being obliquely truncated and emarginate on the outer side; it shows in front a large fovea, from which issues a very short and coarse obtuse tooth directed obliquely forward and outward, and bearing at its base a longer and narrower pointed black tooth directed outward and curved backward and downward; this latter tooth lies almost concealed in the fovea; in the middle of the outer margin of the bulb a strong, pointed, downwardly directed black tooth is visible; close to the anterior side of its posterior elevated portion is a transverse spine-like costa (embolus); the anterior lower part of the bulb shows on the outer side two pale appendages or narrow lobes.
Total length, 6.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.25 nmi.
; width, 2.25 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.75 mm.
Length of leg II, 8.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, n.75 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.25 mm.
(From Thorell.)
Habitat.
— Strawberry Harbor ( 9 ) and Square Island (o'), Labrador.
The female was captured July 28; the male also in July.
"This species greatly resembles P. fuscula; but it is smaller, with the sides of the head more perpendicular, the interval between the two largest eyes is smaller, and the form of the vulva is quite different.
P. lahradorensis is a Pardosa C. Koch, while fuscula (and furcifera) appear to belong to Leimonia C.
Koch."
(Thorell.)
In general coloration, proportions and' structure, and especially in the structure of the J* palpus, this form is certainl}very close to modica, and it may prove not to be anything different.
It is possible that the differences in the epigynum, which Thorell thinks considerable, may be due to the type of lahradorensis being not entirely adult, the epigynum of immature specimens of modica which I have seen seeming largely to agree with the description of that of lahradorensis given as above by Thorell.
Pardosa mackenziana (Keyserling), 1876.
(Sub Lycosa, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 621, PI.
7, fig.
7.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a light median reddish-brown band as broad anteriorly as the eye area or nearly so, usually broken a little way back of its anterior end by a transverse dark stripe, behind which the band continues of a uniform width over the median groove and then narrows down the posterior dechvity, sometimes sending off a process from each side just in front of the posterior margin; sides of cephalothorax black, with or without an indistinct short Hght colored supramarginal stripe posteriorly, with sometimes one or two light spots anteriorly; this marginal band when present conspicuous; eye region entirely black; clypeus brown.
Chelicerce bluish brown, a wide black stripe crossing the face of each obliquely from the inner face outward, leaving a paler tip and a paler portion above it.
Labivm and endites brown, with the tips paler.
Sternum black, an obscurely lighter median line in front, such as occurs in mihmia.
Coxce of legs beneath light brown.
Legs strongly marked with deep brown or black annul ations alternating with rings of yellow or light brown, the latter rings much narrower on femora and tibise, of the same width as the black ones on the metatarsus; the tarsi clear yellow or light brown or the anterior ones sometimes also obscurely annulate.
Abdomen above black, with a lanceolate mark of red-brown at base and a series of transverse light marks behind, each of the latter being composed of mostly four confluent black-centred spots of same color; the transverse marks frequently obscure; sides of abdomen black, minutely spotted with brown, the spots large below; venter brown to gray.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum brown, of same hue as venter inconspicuous.
Face but little lower than the length of the chelicerae; sides straight and vertical or nearly so.
First row of eyes much shorter than the second, prociu'ved; anterior median eyes their diameter or more apart, closer to lateral eyes which are of equal size; anterior lateral eyes twice their diameter from front margins of clypeus, their diameter or a little more from eyes of second row; anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row about their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes rather more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Margins of furrow of chelicerce armed as usual.
Labium of same width as length or very nearly so (1 : 1 to 7.25 : 7); basal excavation longer and shallower than usual, but less than one-third the length of labium; sides widely rounded below, straight above, front or anterior margin truncate or slightly indented at middle.
All tarsi spinulose beneath, the spinules arranged on all in two rows; the lateral scopulse of anterior pairs very sparse or scarcely evident.
Depressed area of epigj^num anteriorly very narrow; the posterior area wide, almost completely filled by the expanded guide which presents lateral plates along transverse arms in front and externally ; the ends of arms extending into excavations in side walls.
(PI.
XV, fig.
5.)
Total length, 6.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2 mm.
Length of leg I, 9.2 nmi.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.1 nnn.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg TI, 8.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 3.7 mm.
Male.
— Color of cephalothorax and abdomen as in female.
Mandibles blackish with dusky brownish-yellow streaks.
Labium and endites also blackish.
The female joint of the palpi is brownish yellow with black spots and streaks especially toward the base; patella joint yellowish brown, the tibia?
black on sides and pale brownish above, covered with black hair; tarsal joint black and black-haired, pale at apex.
Legs brownish yellow, the thighs black beneath, except at apex, and with distinct blackish rings above; the following joints less distinctly ringed.
(Thorell.)
The tibial joint is a little broader and, at least when seen from the side, slightly longer than the patellar joint, gradually but very slightly thickened toward the apex; the tarsal joint is fully as long as the two preceding joints together, about double as broad as the tibial joint, nearly ovate, but strongly narrowing toward apex, very convex.
For structure of bulb see PI.
XV, figs.
6 and 7.
Total length, 6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.5 mm.
(nearly).
Length of leg I, 10 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.5 mm.
-Length of leg III, 9.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 14 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.5 muL Syn.— 1877.
Lycosa uncata Thorell, Bull.
U. S. G. S. of Terr., 3, p. SOS.
1894.
Pardosa dorsalis Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 2, p. 51.
1894.
Pardosa uncata, Eiwrtoa, Trans.
Conn. Ar-ad.
Sci., 9, p. 425, PI.
3, figs.
S to 8/.
Type locality.
— Mackenzie River.
Known localities.
— Colorado!, Utah!, Idaho, Canada.
Pardosa longispinata Tullgren, 1901.
(Bill, till sv.
Vet.-Akad.
Handl., Band 27; Old.
IV, No.
1, p.
23.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax dark brown, clothed with short adpressed and long black upturned bristly hairs, with a white middle-band, squarish in the cephalic part and as broad as the area of eyes, on the pars thoraica narrow; the eye area nearly black; at the margins broad white bands; the margin black.
Chelicerce clothed with long bristly hairs.
Endites and labium light yeUow brown.
Sternum light brown with long light hairs.
Legs pale brown with dark rings.
Abdomen brown, clothed with black and white short hairs without distinct markings; the venter light grayish.
Cephcdothorax a little shorter than the length of tibia + patella of fourth legs and the breadth shorter than the length of tibia of the fourth pair of legs.
Front row of eyes distinctly procurved, the central eyes largest and the interspace between the central eyes about equal to their diameter and longer than the space between the lateral eyes.
The distance from the lateral eyes to the margin of the clypeus and to the eyes in the middle row about thrice their diameter.
The eyes of the middle row very large and the interspace between them longer than their diameter.
The interspace between the middle and the posterior eyes broader than the diameter of the middle eyes.
Chelicerce a little longer than the face, very tapering at the apex and clothed with long bristly hairs, a little narrower than the femur of first pair.
Tibia of first pair of legs below with 2, 2, 2 spines; these and other spines very long.
Total length, 4.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.
; width, 1.8 mm.
Ijcngth of leg I, 7.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10 mm.
(Description rearranged from the original.)
Locality.
— Florida.
One single adult female from Lake Leonore in Orange County.
This tiny Pardosa is not known to me at first hand.
It is certainly a very unusual form, if it be true that the "distance from the lateral eyes to the margin of the clypeus and to the eyes in the middle row is about thrice their diameter," a statement much to be questioned.
Genus SCHIZOCOSA Chamberlin, 1904.
(Canadian Entomologist, ^^ol.
XXXVI, p.
177.)
Entire body densely clothed with pubescence; the cephalothorax with a light median band as wide anteriorly as the eye area and either with or without submarginal pale bands.
Spines of anterior tibiae in number and arrangement like those of Pardosa and Lycosa, in length varying between those of these two genera.
Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second, clearly procurved, more strongly than usual in Pardosa or Lycosa; anterior median eyes larger i^an the lateral, of nearly same distance from each other as from the lateral eyes ; clypeus narrow, the anterior lateral eyes at most their diameter or but little more from the front margin of clypeus, the same distance or considerably farther from the eyes of second row; eyes of second row large, less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes evidently wider behind than in front.
Chelicera?
as in Lycosa, the third tooth of the inferior margin of the furrow usually reduced.
Labium distinctly longer than broad, the basal notch one-third its total length.
Posterior spinnerets short, scarcely or not at all longer than the anterior.
Epigynum with a distinct guide which is elevate and well developed anteriorly as in Lycosa; the transverse arms of guide double, being divided from their exterior ends mesally to a varying distance; lateral furrows not widening anteriorly.
(See figs, of PI.
XVI.)
Male palpus with a scopus exterior in position presenting two processes as in Lycosa; exposed area of lunate plate small; conductor conspicuously produced above, usually into a horn-like elevation of varying size; superior margin of inferior furrow presenting, more or less externally from its middle, a short and pointed, basally wide, plate-like tenaculum which is curved downward distally; a second, shorter tenaculum farther externally and anteriorly; auricula of lectus very long, extending forward along conductor and attaining or nearly attaining front margin of alveolus; embolus distinctly and more or less angularly elbowed at base of auricula.
(See figs, of PI.
XVI.)
Syn.— 1842.
Lycosa, Hentz (ad.
part, ocreata and venustula), J. Bost S N H., IV, p. 228.
• • • 1875.
Lycosa, Hentz (ad.
part, cit.
), Sp.
of U. S., p. 24.
1876.
Lycosa, Ke5^serling (ad.
part, ocreata and rufa), Verh.
z. G. Wien p. 610. '
1885.
Pardosa, Emerton (ad.
part, hilineata), Trans.
Conn. Acad Sci VI d 494.
■ ■' '^' 1892.
Pardosa, Banks (ad.
part, gracilis), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
p. 70.
1902.
Lycosa, Montgomery (ad.
part, ocreata pulchra, relucens and verisimilis), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 536. .
Pardosa, Montgomery (ad.
part.
soHvaga), he.
cit.
1904.
Lycosa, Montgomery (ad.
part.
), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 276.
Pars cephalica truncated in front, its sides moderately rounded and sloping, the face rather high, its sides slanting in varying degrees, sometimes approaching the Pardosa type more and sometimes the Lycosa.
The quadrangle of posterior eyes in length averaging one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax, being thus longer than in Lycosa.
The legs are long and moderately stout, inclining to be slender distally; the anterior tarsi scopulate, at least laterally, the posterior tarsi setose below; the tibia and patella of the fourth legs taken together are always considerably longer than the cephalothorax.
The median light band of the cephalothorax widens uniformly from behind for^^•ard to the eyes; it is constricted in front of dorsal groove, but otherwise its margins are nearly straight.
The abdomen in all is marked above by a broad light band which is nearly or fully as wide as the dorsum and which extends over its entire length from base to spinnerets ; this band enclosing at base a lanceolate outline, and behind in some also a series of transverse angular lines of varying degrees of distinctness; sides of abdomen dark in color, black at least across anterior lateral angles; venter pale.
Spiders of medium or small size.
The males are but little different in size from the females, but are sometimes characterized by having the tibiae of the front pair of legs darkened in color and densely clothed with long black hair which stands out in brush-like form.
The cocoon is spherical, without any seam at equator, and is white in color.
Key to Species.
Females.
1.
Sternum yellow, with two dark lines or rows of dark sjiots converging posteriori}^, bilineaia (Emerton).
Sternum (lark, not marked as in hUineata, 2.
2.
Septal piece of guide very broad immediately in front of transverse arms, narrowing anteriorly where it is not sinuous or bent; the median piece between anterior and posterior divisions of arms very narrow, nuich narrower than the septum in front of arms (PI.
XVI, fig.
1); sternum usually black except marginally, ocreata (Hentz).
Septal piece of guide sinuous or bent near anterior end ; median piece between anterior and posterior divisions of arms wide, wider than septum in front of transverse arms (PI.
X\l, fig.
4); sternum usually reddish brown, saltatrix (Hentz).
Males.
1.
First tibiae clothed with dense black hair standing out in brushlike form, 2.
First tibiee not so clothed, saltatiix (Hentz).
2.
Legs yellow, without dark annuli or markings, bilineata (Emerton).
Legs annulate with dark, ocreata (Hentz).
Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz), 1844.
(Sub.
Lycosa, J. Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 391, PI.
XVIII, fig.
5.)
Female.
— Sides of the cephalothorax brownish black; median band reddish yellow, anteriorly passing forward broadly between eyes of third row and nearly reaching second, more or less divided at front end by a black median line or pointed process; eyes surrounded with black; on each side considerably above margin a narrow, wavy light line which does not extend forward upon the pars cephalica, this line often obscure; clypeus reddish yellow, crossed beneath each anterior lateral eye by a black mark or spot which is often confluent with its fellow across the middle, thus leaving the clypeus pale only laterally; light bands of cephalothorax in life clothed denseh^ with white or light gray pubescence.
Chelicene reddish brown, often dusky, except at distal ends, and marked by black lines.
Enditcs brown, the labium darker, usually blackish except at tip.
Sternum usually black or nearly so, paler along borders, especially caudo-laterally; sometimes paler reddish brown.
Coxce of legs beneath light brown.
Legs reddish brown, paler distally, all joints except the tarsi with dark annulations, the annulations of the femora broader and deeper, commonly more or less confluent, especially the anterior pairs, the annulations of the other joints often indistinct.
Sides of abdomen above dark, a black band passing from the front face backward across each antero-lateral angle and breaking up behind into numerous streaks and spots; the dorsum covered for entire length by a broad light brown band of often reddish tinge, the band usually constricted in front of middle; within the light band at base a lanceolate outline which bifurcates at its apex and is followed behind by a series of chevronlines; lower part of sides of abdomen light brown, marked with small black spots; the venter light brown, either immaculate or with a median, and at each side a lateral, row of dark spots behind the furrow of the lung slits.
Epigyman and spinnerets brown.
Face moderately high, two-thirds as high as the length of the chelicerse, its sides moderately steep.
First row of eyes considerably shorter than the second, distinctly procurved, the median three-fourths their diameter apart, nearly the same distance from the three-fourths as large lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter, or slightly more, from front margin of clypeus, very little farther from eyes of second row, eyes of second row not fully their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes about one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Chelicerw armed as usual.
Labium longer than wide, the basal notch very long, more than one-third the total length of labium; sides above straight and strongly converging, the front margin straight, not at all curved.
Legs long, the distal joints rather slender; tibia 4patella of first legs of same length as the cephalothorax ; anterior tibiae armed beneath as usual, the first two pairs of spines long, nearly as in Pardosa, the first overlapping the second ; anterior tarsi with scopulse at sides ; a median ventral setose band, the posterior tarei not at all scopulate being simply setose.
Septal part of guide of epigynum very broad, occupying much of epigynal depression, narrowest at anterior end; the transverse arms deeply divided, the median piece very narrow.
(PL XVI, fig.
1.)
Total length of small female, 7.4 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.3 mm.
; greatest width, 3.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 11.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.3 mm.
; met., 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 15 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.6 mm.
, met., 4.4 nrjn.
Male.
— Coloration in general as in female.
The tibiae of first legs very densely clothed for entire length with long black hairs which stand out straight from joint; often of a greenish tinge.
Legs longer than in female; tibia + patella of first legs longer than cephalothorax; spine of anterior tibia shorter than in female.
Tibia of palpus fully as wide as long, sides convex, widest at middle, much wider than the patella which is little shorter and widens from base distally, its sides straight; tarsus wider than the tibia, of same length as tibia and patella taken together-r Lunate area very small, basal in position, its convexity external ; horn of conductor very long, extending much beyond front margin of alveolus, bent at an angle below its middle; principal tenaculum situated at middle, imequally bidentate; lesser tenaculum bent upward at distal end, situated below antero-exterior angle; auricle gradually attenuated apically.
(PI.
XVI, fig.
5.)
Length of large specimen, 8.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.6 mm.
; width, 3.9 mm.
Length of leg 1, 14.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5 mm.
; met., 3.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 13.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 13.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 1.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.5 mm.
; met., 5.3 mm.
Syn.— 1875.
Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Spid.
of U. S., p. 33, PI.
4, fig.
5.
1876.
Lycosa ocreata, Keyserling, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, Vol.
XXVI, p. 611, Tab.
VII, fig.
5 (male).
.
Lycosa rufa Keyserling, ibid., p. 613, Tab.
VII, fig.
2 (female).
1885.
Lycosa ocreata, Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., VI, p. 491, PI.
XLVIII, figs.
6, 6a, 66.
1890.
Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., XII, p. 562. .
Lycosa rufa Keyserling, Marx, ibid., p. 563. .
Lycosa ocreata, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Soi.
Phila., Vol.
42, p. 427.
1892.
Lycosa ocreata.
Banks, op.
cit., Vol.
44, p. 66.
Lycosa ocreata, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W. II p. 160. .
Lycoso ocreafa, Fox, ibid., p. 269.
1893.
Lycosa ocreata, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, I, p. 125.
1896.
Lycosa ocreata, Banks, op.
cit., IV, p. 192.
1898.
Lycosa ocreata, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., II, p. 330.
1900.
Lycosa ocreata, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa ocreata, Emerton, Connnon Sp.
of I^.
S. .
Pardosa solivaga Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 574, PI.
XXX, fig.
39. .
Lycosa stonei Montgomery, ibid., p. 546, PI.
XXIX, figs.
9 and 10.
1904.
Schizocosa ocreata, Chamberlin, Can.
Ent., XXX^VI, p. 176. .
Lycosa ocreata, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 288.
Type locality.
— North Carolina.
Known localities.
— North Carolina!, Virginia, District of Columbia!, Alabama, I-ouisiana, Ohio, Illinois, Kansas!, Connecticut, New York!.
Hentz,in speaking of the occurrence of this species in North Carolina, says that it "is not rare in meadows near water."
It is found in similar locations in New York State.
Emerton states that in New Haven, Cr)nn., it is "common in open woods among dead leaves.
Adult about June 1."
Schizocosa saltatrix (Hentz), 1844.
(Sub Lycosa, J. Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 387, PI.
XVII, fig.
7.)
Females.
— Sides of cephalothorax deep brown, in life densely clothed with black intermixed with brown pubescence, a wide median band of usual form which is of reddish tinge anteriorly, extending forward between eyes of third row and there geminated by a fine dark line which extends back over pars cephalica towards dorsal groove; a supramarginal light line on each side which sometimes attains and sometimes does not attain the clypeus in front, the border below these lateral stripes more or less broken by transverse light lines ; median and lateral light stripes densely clothed with white intermixed with yellowish pubescence.
Chelicerce dark brown clothed with short yellowish gray pubescence, which is not dense, and longer black bristles ; the fringe of the superior margin of the furrow grayish.
Endites yellowish brown, lighter at tips.
Labium brown, darker than endites.
Sternum beneath brown or reddish brown, the former often showing a lighter median line or stripe, clothed in life with gray or whitish intermixed with black pubescence.
Coxce light brown to yellow, always paler than the sternum.
Legs yellow to light reddish-brown, with numerous narrow though often indistinct dark rings (occasionally quite absent), which become fewer and often wider distally, the annuli of femora not so heavy and not confluent as in ocreata.
Nearly entire dorsum of abdomen pale brown, often of a pale reddish in life, grayish from the pubescence which is light brown intermixed with spots of gray, line at base a dark lanceolate outline, forked at apex and followed by a series of chevron-lines as in ocreata; these in life broadened behind by lines of white hair, a black spot over each anterior lateral angle extending a short distance condad, and usually a triangular black spot more or less constricting the median band towards the middle, the sides elsewhere with many dark spots, in life streaked and spotted with patches of white pubescence; venter pale brown to greenish yellowy in life densely clothed with white pubescence, the tegimient often marked along each side with a row of small black dots curved convexly outward and converging posteriorly, a double median dark stripe sometimes present behind epigyiumi.
Epigj^num and spinnerets light brown.
Face moderate in height, less than two-thirds as high as the length of the cheliceraB, the sides moderately rounded and standing outward below, more so than in ocreata.
Anterior row of eijes shorter than second by twice the diameter of a lateral eye, well procurved.
Anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus, slightly farther from eyes of second row less.
than their diameter apart; cephalothorax 4.5 times longer than quadrangle of posterior eyes.
Chelicerce armed as usual, the middle tooth of inferior margin longest, the third considerably reduced.
Labium longer than broad (not quite 8.7) basal notch one-third the length of labium; sides of lal:»ium below but slightly convex, subparallel, above straight or nearly so, distinctly and considerably converging; anterior margin moderately wide, concurved at middle; gently convexly rounded at sides.
Legs long and rather stout; the metatarsi of the fourth legs moderately slender; two first pair of spines of anterior tibia?
of moderate length, rather shorter than in ocreata.
Anterior tarsi and also except basally being divided b}^ a wide median setose band.
Septal piece of guide of epigynum of but moderate width, a little or sometimes considerably wider anteriorly than posteriorly, the transverse arms divided normally but little more than half way to their mesal ends, the incisions connected by a furrow ; posterior divisions of transverse arms depressed, on each side with distal end bent sharply forward.
(Pl.XVI, fig.
4.)
Total length, 9 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.7 mm.
; width, 3.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 12.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.5 mm.
; met., 2.3 nnii.
Length of leg II, 11.7 mm.
; Length of leg III, 11.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 15.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5 mm.
; met., 4.5 mm.
Male.
— Colored like female, the anterior legs not specially modified, chelicerse clothed with yellow and greenish pubescence.
Legs considerably longer than in female, tibiae + patella of first pair clearly longer than the cephalothorax.
Tibiffi of palpus a little longer and much thicker than the patella, nearly as wide as tarsus, sides more straight than in ocreata; tarsus as long as two preceding joints together.
Exposed part of lunate area very small, situated at base and with convexity external; horn of conductor broad at base, conical; principal tenaculum external from middle, the lesser tenaculum at antero-exterior angle of conductor, small, bsnt a little downward apically; auricle of lectal fold bluntly and abruptly rounded apically.
For other features see PI.
XVI, fig.
2.
Total length, 8.8 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.7 nun.
; width, 3.9 mm.
Length of leg I, 16 mm.
; tib.
+ pat.. 5.4 mm.
; met., 3.5 mm.
Length of leg II, 13.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 13.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 19 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.8 mm.
; met., 5.8 mm.
Svn.— 1844.
Lycosn venustula Hentz, J. Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 392, PI.
^XVIII, figs.
6and7.
1875.
Lijcosa saltatrix Hentz, Sp.
of U. S. (Burgess Ed.
), p. 28, PI.
3, fig.
7. .
Lycosa venustula Hentz, Sp.
of U. S., p. 33, PI.
^, figs.
6, 7.
1892.
Lycosa humilis Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Vol.
44, p. 65, PI.
Ill, fig.
36. .
Pardosa gracilis Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., Vol.
41 p. 70, PI.
1, fig.
50.
1902.
Li/cosa relucens Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 542, PL 29, figs.
5, 6. .
Lycosa charanoides ^lontgomer}', Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 544. .
Lycosa verisimilis Montgomery, ibid., p. 548, PI.
29, figs.
11, 12.
1903.
Li/cosa charanoides Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 646, PI.
XXIX, fig.
7. .
Li/cosa verisimilis Montgomery, ibid., p. 647.
1904.
Schizocosa venustula (Hentz), Chamberlin, Can.
Ent., XXXVI, p. 176. .
Lycosa charanoides Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 286. .
Lycosa relucens Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 292.
Type locality.
— Alabama.
Known localities.
— Alabama, North Carolina!.
Georgia!, Louisiana!, Mississippi!, Texas!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, Kansas!, New York!.
Hentz states that males of this species were common in Alabama in April, but that he did not find females.
So also, it may be noted, all but a few of the specimens of rather extensive collections of this species, made at several places in the South in the early spring of 1903, which I have examined are males.
The marking of the venter of the abdomen figured by Hentz is strongly developed in some individuals, obscure or absent in others.
In size and general colorati(m this species is much like ocreata, except as to the first legs of the males; and it has also approximately the same geographical range.
Schizocosa bilineata (Emerton), 1885.
(Sub Pnrdosa, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., VI, p. ^96, PI.
40, figf?.
3 to 36.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothornx dark reddish brown clothed with deep brown pubescence.
A wide median yellow stripe of the usual form, darker, more reddish, in front of dorsal groove, extending between e3^es of third row as usual ; not geminated or only so for \-ery little distance at front, usually a darker reddish line extending backward from inner side of each eye of third row, the two uniting in front of median groove ; the band clothed in gray and light brown pubescence which is darker anteriorly; a narrow supramarginal stripe each side reaching to clypeus in front, the dark band below this stripe often more or less broken into spots by light cross-lines; some light radiating cross-lines from median stripe; eyes surrounded with black, the black extending across clypeus below each anterior lateral eye.
Chelicerce brown, a gray-brown pubescence and longer black bristles.
Endites yellow or light brown.
Labium darker, brown to blackish.
Sternum light brown or yellow, a row of dark spots each side of the middle, the two converging and meeting posteriorly, the margins also sometimes darker, clothed with grayish pubescence.
Coxce of legs yellow.
Legs yellow, somewhat darkened distally, entirely without dark annuli or other markings.
Abdomen above light brown, enclosing at base a dark lanceolate outline ending at middle, and with behind on each side a row of several black spots, which are connected in pairs by narrow and often indistinct dark transverse lines; the dorsum densely clothed with light brown or graybrown pubescence; a deep brown or black spot over each anterior lateral angle, the sides elsewhere also dark from the many dark spots which are often more or less arranged in rows, covered with brown pubescence, intermixed with gray in spots and streaks ; venter yellow, covered with gray pubescence, with normally four dark longitudinal lines, all converging from furrow of lung slits toward the spinnerets.
Spinnerets yellowish or pale bro^vn.
Epigyniim pale brown witli darker margins.
Face moderately high, a little more than two-thirds as high as the length of the chelicerffi; sides scarcely convex, very steep, much as in Pardosa.
First row of eyes much shorter than the second, considerably procurved; anterior median eyes hardly their radius apart, about same distance from the lateral or but slightly farther; anterior lateral eyes as large as median or very nearly so, rather less than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, a little more than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row not their diameter apart, quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax; posterior eyes seen from above close to lateral margin of pars cephalica as in Pardosa.
Labium longer than wide in ratio of 4.6 : 4: basal notch one-third as long as labium; sides rounded below, straight and moderately converging above; anterior margin truncate, not at all curved.
Legs of moderate length, short, not very slender distally; rhetatarsus of fourth legs as long as cephalothorax; tibia + patella of first leg shorter than cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibia?
moderately long and slender, the first pair a little overlapping the second ; anterior tarsi with well developed scopula w^hich are scarcely or but imperfectl}'' divided, the posterior tarsi not at all scopulate, simply setose.
Septal piece of guide of epigynimi broad, narrowest adjacent to transverse arms, distinctly widening anteriorly; the anterior branch of transverse arms of each side conspicuously enlarged distally, making the total width of the transverse arms conspicuously less adjacent to septum than extad.
(PI.
XVI, fig.
3.)
Total length, 7.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.3 mm.
; width 2.4 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 1.7 mm.
Length of leg II, 8.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 11.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 1.7 mm.
Male.
— General coloration like that of female; tibiae of first legs densely clothed for entire length with a brush of long black hair as in ocreata.
Anterior lateral eyes but about half their diameter from front margin of clypeus, smaller than median; eyes of second row scarcely more than three-fourths their diameter apart.
Tibia of palpus longer and broader than the patella, of nearly same breadth from base to ape.x ; tibia + patella a little longer than tarsus ; the latter clearly wider than the tibia (3.25 : 2.5) ; the alveolus relatively large, the sides low and the bulb protruding; conductor high and rounded above at the exterior end, but no distinct horn-shaped process ; principal tenaculum rather small, bluntly rounded apically; auricle of lectus very long, attaining or extending beyond front margin of alveolus.
Total length, 5.3 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.2 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 7.8 mm.
Length of leg III, Length of leg IV', 10.6; tib.
+ pat., 3.4 mm.
; met., 3.2 mm.
Syn.
— 1890.
Lijcosa ocreata Stone, but nee Hentz, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
■ Pliila., Vol.
42, p. 427.
1892.
Pardosa hilineata, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., Vol.
2, p. 161 1895.
Pardosa hilineata, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, Vol.
3, p. 91 .
1902.
LycQsa ocreata pulchra Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Pbila., p. 540,'Pl.
29, figs.
3, 4.
1904.
Schizocosn hilineata (Hentz), Chamberlin, XXXVI, p. 176. .
Lycosa hilineata Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 290.
Type locality.
— Connecticut.
Known localities.
— Connecticut, New York!, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia!, Illinois, Kansas!.
The Genus LYCOSA Latreille, 1804.
(Xouv.
Diet.
Hist.
Xat., 24, p.
135.)
Entire body densely clothed with pubescence.
Anterior tibia armed beneath with three pairs of spines which are shorter than the diameter of the joint or at most but little longer, the third pair apical in position and smaller (PI.
IX, fig.
8).
Anterior eyes in a row shorter than, of same length as or longer than the second, either procurved or straight, or rarely a little recurved, eyes equidistant or with the median a little farther from each other than from the lateral, the lateral usually a little smaller than the median ; anterior lateral eyes mostly their diameter or but little more from front margin of clypeus, only rarely once and a half their diameter and never more, the same distance or farther from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row large, less than their diameter apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapeziform, evidently wider behind than in front.
Lahimn longer than wide, or at least never wider than long; either attenuated anteriorly or, less commonly,, with sides subparallel; basal excavation long, in most fully one-third or more the total length (PL IX, figs.
7 and 9).
Spinnerets short, the posterior ones not longer than the anterior, their apical segment indistinct.
Epigynum in typical forms with a strongly developed guide, of which the septal piece is distinct and well formed anteriorly, its transverse arms not divided ; openings of the spermatheca protected, leading into narrowed channels, the lateral furrows from these widening anteriorly, and at the front usually conspicuously wider than behind (see, e.g., figs, of PI.
XVII) ; in some the foveolse subcirciilar, not thus elongate and widening conspicuously anteriorly (group 7>ochosa).
Bulb of male palpus bearing at front of basal lobe a strongly chitinized special fold or scopus which is essentially exterior in position ; scopus presenting two processes ; viewed directly from below the inner of these appears usually as a more or less retrorse, barb-like process, but in some (group Trocliosa) longer and strongly salient, the basal portion mostly more or less concealed by a basal fold which leaves only the apical, exterior portion visible in ventral aspect; median rim of conductor bearing one, or sometimes two, mostly slender and simple tenacula; a lectal fold well developed, an auricle of varying size, l3ut always smaller than in Schizocosa.
See, e.g., figs, of PI.
XVII.
1832.
Lycosa Hentz (ad.
part, max.
), Sill.
J. Sci.
and Arts, 21, p. 106.
1842.
Lycosa Hentz (ad.
part, max.
), J. Bost.
Soc.
N. H., 4, p. 228.
1848.
Lycosa (ad.
part.
), Arctosa and Trochosa, C. Koch, Die Arachniden, 14, pp.
94-98.
1869-70.
Tarentula and Trochosa Thorell, On European Spiders, p. 192.
1875.
Lycosa Hentz (ud.
part, max.
), Sp.
U. S., pp.
11 and 24.
1876.
Lycosa Simon (ad.
part, max.
), Arcahn.
Fr., 3, p. 233. .
Tarentula and Trochosa Kevserling, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, p. 610.
1877.
Tarentula Thorell, Bull.
U. S. G. S.
Terr., 3, p. 520.
1885.
Lycosa Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 482.
1890.
Tarentula, Trochosa and ad.
part.
Lycosa Marx, Proe.
U. S. N. M., 12.
1898.
Lycosa Simon (ad.
part, max.
), Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2.
1902.
Lycosa (ad.
part, max.
), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 536.
1903.
Lycosa Comstock, Classif .
of N. A. Spiders.
1904.
Lycosa Chamberlin, Can.
Entomologist, Vol.
XXXVI, p. 176. .
Lycosa (ad.
part.
), Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 276. .
Trochosa, Montgomery (ad.
part), ibid., p. 300.
Pars cephalica moderately elevated: in front truncate to more or less obtuse; its lateral margins either a little converging anteriorly or parallel; sides rounded outward below; face moderately high, trapeziform, evidently widening downward; in profile either vertical or sloping forward from top to the base of chelicerae (PI.
IX, fig.
5).
Quadrangle of posterior eyes in most but one-fifth or less the length of the cephalothorax.
Seen from above, the eyes of second and third rows are much more than their diameter from lateral margins of the pars cephalica (PI.
IX, fig.
2).
Chelicene long and robust, in length at least one and one-half times the height of the face ; upper margin with three teeth of the usual proportions, or the first one rarely absent; lower margin with three stout teeth which are subequal, or with the third sometimes reduced, or else with tw© stout eciual teeth (PL IX, figs.
1 and 3).
Legs robust, the distal joints usually not slender as in Pardosa.
Tarsi and usually also metatarsi of anterior legs scopulate and with the 15 scopulse undivided (PI.
IX, fig.
4), the posterior tarsi scopulate at sides, being divided along the median ventral face by a setose or setose and spiniilose band (PI.
IX, fig.
6).
Metatarsus of fourth legs shorter than tibia + .
patella of same pair in most cases, rarely the metatarsus the longer more especially in males.
Tibia + patella of last legs sometimes a little longer than and sometimes of same length as or, as in the great majority of cases, shorter than the cephalothorax.
Spiders of large or medium size, including the largest forms of the family.
There is much variation in coloration, although in the several groups of species the same system or pattern of markings is more or less evident.
Most of the larger North American species show a decided tendency to have the ventral surface of the body black in whole or in considerable part, such seeming indeed to be the tendency in large Lycosidce everywhere.
The body of the males is in most cases smaller than that of the females, with the legs proportionately much longer and with their several joints of proportionately different lengths.
Lycosas make a white spherical cocoon which only exceptionally shows a seam about its equator, the tissue being normally smooth and homogeneous.
The smaller species carry the cocoons about as do the Pardosas, which they resemble also in building no retreats.
The larger species, however, during the cocooning season are sedentary.
Practically all of these larger species make nests or burrows of some kind, these varying greatly in form and depth.
Some of the burrows are deep and have the openings surrounded by a rampart or turret formed of .sticks and leaves or of bits of dirt cemented together with silk {e.g., fatifera, arenicola, carolinensis) .
Other species excavate only shallower pits or nests beneath stones or logs, and surround these excavations with a low rampart of earth or sticks, etc., and which they may occupy only during the cocooning season (e.g., helluo).
The genus Lycosa as here considered is divisible into a number of groups ; but for the most part these are found more or less closely to intergrade when a sufficient number of species are taken into consideration.
The most aberrant and distinct of these groups, so far as concerns the American species, is that containing many of the forms referred to Trochosa C. K. {avara Keys., gosiuta new, cinerea Fab., ruhicunda Keys., etc.).
The material representing this group that I have been able to study (American forms only) has not been sufficiently extensive and complete to enable me to determine fully the characteristics and value of the group, and therefore the propriety or advantageousness of its separation generically.
The forms studied differ from typical Lycosas among other features in having the epigyna as \\\(\q as or wider than long with the guide more or less strongly arched at middle, and with the lateral depression, relativel}^ wide and short, tending to subcircular; the lateral ridges commonly low at middle (PI.
XX, fig.
2. avara; PI.
XX, fig.
6, cinerea).
In the male palpal organ the proximal limb of scopus is more strongl}developed, being more or less elongate and bent out vertically as a conspicuously salient process (PI.
XX, fig.
1, avara).
Some but not all species in the group have the stout spine, normally present alcove at proximal end of the tibiae of the third and fourth legs in Lycosa, replaced by a very elongate, basally stout bristle clearly stouter at base than surrounding haii"s, spine-like, but distally gradually extending into a long fine awn.
Through some forms of this group a close approach is made to Allocosa, which may ultimately have to be withdrawn into the present genus.
Key to Species of Lycosa.
1.
Venter of abdomen black in front of genital furrow and in a spot at base of spinnerets, elsewhere pale brown, .
coloradensis Bks.
Not so, .
.
.
.
2.
2.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with but two teeth, .
3. liOwer margin of furrow armed with three teeth, 4.
3.
Anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus, kocJdi (Keys.).
Anterior lateral eyes once and one-half their diameter from front margin of clypeus heanii Em.
4.
No spine at all above on tibiae of legs III and IV, 5.
Spine at middle or both at middle and at proximal end on tibiae of legs III and IV, 6.
5.
Dorsum of abdomen with a distinct median dark band along its entire length ; light median band on cephalothorax, arenicola Sc.
Dorsum of abdomen without such a dark band; cephalothorax without distinct markings, fatifera Htz.
6.
No true stout spine at base above on tibiae of legs III and IV, replaced by a basally stout, apically slender and pointed, elongate bristle, 7.
A true robust spine at base above on tibiae of legs III and IV, 10.
7.
Tibia -1patella of legs I^^ less than 3 mm.
long, floridiana (Bks).
Tibia + patella of legs IV near 4 mm.
long or longer, .... 9.
9.
Eyes upon a black patch ; legs not marked with dark annuli, cinerea Fab.
Eyes not upon a black patch ; legs marked with dark annuli, rubicunda.
10.
Cephalothorax with a light median longitudinal stripe which is very narrow or line-like anteriorly and which extends forward to or between eyes of second row, 11.
Cephalothorax either without a median band or with a band which is as wide or nearly as wide as the third eye row, .
, 18.
11.
Legs strongly banded with black, or if, annulations are indistinct, legs entirely black, _ ... 12.
Legs yellow or light brown, not at all annulate or with a few dark markings on femora, 13.
12.
Anterior row of eyes as wide as or a little wider than the second, aspersa H. Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second, .
.
.
ripariciB.. 13.
Males, 14.
Females, 18.
14.
Cephalothorax near 10 mm.
in length (leg IV not more than 3.25 times as long as cephalothorax), .... permunda Chamb.
Cephalothorax under 7.5 mm.
in length (leg IV 3.7 or more times as long as cephalothorax), 15.
15.
Tibia + patella I longer than tibia + patella IV, .
grandis Bks.
Tibia + patella I shorter than tibia + patella IV, .
helluo W. 16.
Leg IV less than three times the length of cephalothorax, permunda Chamb.
Leg IV more than three times the length of cephalothorax, .
.17.
17.
Abdomen beneath and the sternum immaculate pale yellow, clothed with yellow hair, grandis Bks.
Sternum mostly Ijlack or nearly so and clothed largely with black hair; abdomen beneath mostly with numerous dark dots and sometimes nearly black, helluo W. 18.
Dorsum of abdomen marked along its entire length by a distinct median dark band, 19.
Abdomen not so marked, 20.
19.
Sternum yellow or light brown; dorsal dark band of abdomen, usually with margins behind dentate or else enclosing along each side a series of small oblicjue light spots, .
.
.
scuiidata H. Sternum black; dorsal band of abdomen with margins always straight and not dentate or enclosing light spots behind, punctulata H. 20.
Cephalothorax entirely without light bands or spots either at middle or along sides, 2L Cephalothorax with at least a median lighter band or spot, .
22.
21.
Sternum and coxae of legs and usually entire venter of abdomen black ; both ends of tibiae of legs beneath black, .
carolinensis W. Sternum light to reddish brown, not black; venter of abdomen not black either in whole or in part, quinaria.
22.
Tibiae of fourth legs black at both ends beneath, other tibiae and legs elsewhere luimarked excepting faint browm cross-bars on femora (sternum and venter of abdomen entirely black), apicata Bks.
Not so, 23.
23.
Legs pale brown and entirely without darker markings; venter behind genital furrow black, rarely a pale central spot, lenta H. Legs similar, but patellae and often distal end of tibiae black beneath ; anterior femora above and posteriorly with fine longitudinal dark lines, posterior femora with faint dark spots; venter as for preceding, .
.
.
lenta var.
haltimoriana (K-)Not as for lenta or its variety, 24, 24.
All tibiee black at both ends beneath and the-femora black beneath at distal end ; large, the cephalothorax 10 mm.
or more in length, carolinensis W. Tibia and femora not banded thus at ends only beneath ; cephalothorax less than 10 mm.
long, 25.
25.
Females 26.
Males, 34.
26.
Lateral depressed areas of epigynum wide, subcircular, not elongate in the usual way, 27.
Epigynum not so, 28.
27.
Guide bearing a short blunt median process posteriorly; ends of transverse arms not extending forwards freely to or beyond middle of lateral-depression or fovea (PI.
XIX, fig.
2), avara (Keys.).
No such short median process posteriorly on guide; ends of transverse arms of guide extending forward uncovered to beyond middle of depressed fovea (PI.
XIX, fig.
4), avara xslt.
gosiuta new.
28.
Guide of epigynum inversely T-shaped, the transverse arms relatively slender, 29.
Guide enlarged at posterior end, but not inversely T-shaped or anchor-shaped, 33.
29.
Septum of guide strongly widening from base of transverse arms to anterior end, where it extends entirely or nearly across the median depression, 30.
Not so, 31.
30.
Confining walls of epigynum very wide anteriorly (PI.
XXI, fig.
3), pratensis Em.
Not so, the epigynum much like that of helluo (PL XVII, fig.
1), floridana Bks, 31.
Transverse piece of guide extending entirely across or almost entirely across epigynum behind, some longer than median piece, scarcely confined by side ridges at ends (PL XVIII, fig.
4), frond icola Em.
Transverse piece of guide not so long, distinctly confined by ridges at ends, 32.
32.
Septum widest at its anterior end ; lateral walls thick ; epigynum as a whole rather wider than long mod esta Keys.
Not so, septum widest toward middle part of its length, transverse arms usually excavated at ends above; epigynum as a whole roughly triangular, being much narrowed anteriorly (PL XVII, fig.
3)^ .
erratica H. 33.
Enlarged end portion of guide roughly triangular in shape with the apex behind (PL XIX, fig.
8) piciilis Em.
Expanded end of guide not so shaped, widest behind, where it is truncate (PL XXI, fig.
7), gidosa W. 34.
Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second 35.
Anterior row of eyes as long as or longer than the second, .
40.
35.
Median pale band of cephalothorax strongly widening anteriorly, passing each side of the eyes and reaching to the clypeus, the full width of which it embraces, albohastata Em, Median pale band of cephalothorax not thus in front wider than and enclosing eye area, 36.
36, Embolus curving out ventralwards and forward, resting only its apical part obliquely across the auricle (PI.
XXI, fig, 4), gulosa W, Not so, .
, , 37.
37.
Median pale stripe strongly bulging between third eye row and anterior end of dorsal groove, being much wider than third eye row; at front of furrow abruptly narrowed to the widtli of third eye row, its sides then subparallel to posterior declivity, pictilis Em.
Median pale band of cephalothorax not so formed, , , , 38, 38, Dorsum of abdomen with a median light band extending to spinnerets behind, where it ends in a point, enclosing at base a dark lanceolate mark, or with the latter sometimes absent, crratica H. No such distinctly limited light band on dorsum of abdomen, 39.
39, Venter mostly black, modesta (K,).
Venter brown to yellowish, avara (K.), 40.
Venter with a wide irregularly edged black l^and extending from epigynum to spinnerets and sometimes embracing entire width of abdomen, frondicola Em, Venter with no such broad black band, , , , .
prate^isis Em.
Lycosa helluo Walckenaer, 1837.
(Insect, Apt., I, p.
337.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax deep brown, a narrow light colored median pale stripe which anteriorly becomes line-like and extends forward between the eyes, this median stripe in life covered with light brown pubescence which continues as a median line between the eyes and to the front margin of the clypeus; in most a short curved light hne behind each eye of third row and close to the median line; a wider similarly colored and clothed light supramarginal stripe on each side, this stripe usually not distinguishable in front of third eye row; eyes enclosed in black; dark parts of cephalothorax clothed with brown and black hair intermixed, the black most abundant over, and giving its deeper color to, the upper parts of the sides along the bordere of the median pale stripe and the area about the ej^es.
Chelicerw black or brownish black, the lateral condyles red at base and black below; clothed with a short yellowish pubescence with some longer, grayblack bristles intermixed, the latter being more numerous distally and forming the dense fringe along the superior margin of the furrow.
Labium and endites black, brown at distal ends.
Sternum and coxce of legs beneath black or brownish black, subdensely clot lied with blackish hair, the longer ones of which appear lighter distally.
Legs yellow or light brown, of usually a distinctly greenish tinge, becoming darker with age; femora paler beneath; in adults in most cases entirely without any dark annuli or other markings or with some narrow, mostly faint darker-cross marks on the femora above (for young specimens vid.
note infra.)
; clothed wdth short appressed fine hairs of yellow, and longer black hairs; scopula3 black.
Abdomen dark brown; above with a black median basal mark which widens from its base to its middle, where it projects on each side in a pointed angle or line, and then narrow^s to its apex which bifurcates, sending a narrow pointed line caudo-laterally on each side, the margins of the stripe deeper colored than central portion; a short distance back of the apex of the l^asal mark is a black angular or chevron-shaped transverse mark ; and following this behind over the posterior part of dorsum is a series of light brown or yellow chevron-lines, each of which terminates at each of its ends in a circular spot of the same color; each light chevron-line bordered in front by a black line of similar form; lateral part of dorsum mixed black and brown, a large black spot over each antero-lateral angle* sides mostly dark brown with many small spots of yellow and of black; lower parts of sides and the venter brown to yelloAv with numerous small dots of black, less commonly immaculate, and at other times almost entirely black; abdomen densely clothed with black and yellow hair intermixed, the one predominating on the dark markings, the other on the light.
Spinnerets bro^vn.
Epigynum dark reddish brown.
Face rather low, its sides convex and strongly oblique; pare cephalica not elevated above pars thoracica, the dorsal line but little sloping from the third eye row to the posterior declivity, not depressed at middle.
Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, a little procurved ; anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral, less than their radius apart, about an equal distance from the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes separated from the front margin of the clypeus by once and a third their diameter, or little more, the same distance from eyes of second row; eyes of second row three-fourths their diameter apart; cephalothorax 5.5 to 6 times as long as the quadrangle of posterior eyes.
Chelicerce with margins of fiu'row armed as usual, the first tooth of the inferior margin often with its lower part concealed by a marginal keel extending from base of claw.
Labium longer than wide (9.5 :S.75); basal excavations one-third the total length; sides rounded below, above nearly straight, converging to the front margin which is widely truncate or slightly incurved mesally.
Legs long and stout, tibia + patella of fourth legs distinctly longer than the cephalothorax, the latter being a little longer than tibia + patella of first legs ; tarsi of first legs a little curved, those of second legs more slightly so; patella of fii-st legs unarmed ; patella of second legs with a single spine on anterior side; spines of anterior tibi£e as usual; both tarsi and metatarsi of three anterior pairs of legs scopulate; scopulfe of third and fourth pairs divided.
Epigynum somewhat oval in outline, with posterior end truncate; guide inversely T-shaped, the septal part enlarging at or above its middle; guide plates widest on transverse arms, narrowing and fading out at middle of septum ; furrows broad anteriorly, narrowed strongly behind by the abrupt bulging in of the lateral tubercles.
(PI.
X\'II, fig.
1.)
Total length, 19.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 8.2 mm.
; width, 6.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 22.8 mm.
; tib.
4pat., 8 mm.
; met., 4.5 mm.
Length of leg II, 20.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 19.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 27.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9 mm.
; met., 7.8 mm.
Male.
— Much smaller than the female with relatively longer legs.
Cephalothorax above and legs nearly as in the female or lighter.
Sternum usually more brownish, often divided by a median light line; clothed with long light gray hair.
Coxce of legs beneath light brown like the other joints of legs.
Abdomen colored above as in the female; lower portion of sides and the venter lighter yellow or grayish bro^^-n, immaculate or nearly so.
Palpi yellowish brown, the tarsus darker.
^■'iewed from above, the tibia is scarcely longer than the patella and is of the same thickness ; the tarsus equalling the length of the two preceding joints together; apical portion of tarsus long, seen from below very gradually attenuated, not acute apically.
Tenaculum long and slender, projecting ecto-distally, a smaller but similar secondary tenaculum mesalh' from this and commonly in part or whole concealed.
For further structure of bulb see PI.
XVII, fig.
2.
Total length, 11.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.7 mm.
; width, 4.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 17.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 6.1 mm.
; met., 4.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 15.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 13.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 21.2 mm.
; tib, + pat., 6.6 mm.
; met., 6.1 mm.
Syn.
— 1837.
ILycosa sayi Walckenaer, Insect.
Apt., 1, p. 337.
1846.
Lycosa babingtoni Blackwall, Ann.
and Mag.
N. H., 17, p. 30.
1S4S.
iLjicosa vajra (C. Koch), Die Arachn., 14, p. 135, PI.
490, fig.
1365.
1876.
Trochosa helvipes Keyserling, Yerh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, PI.
7, figs.
35, 36, and PI.
8, fig.
37.
18S5.
Lycosa nidicola Emerton, Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 482, PI.
46, figs.
1 to Id.
1890.
Lijcosa bahingtoni, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561.
Lycosa hellvo, Marx, ibid., p. 562.
Lycosa nidicola, Marx, ibid., p. 562.
Lycosa nidicola, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 424.
1891.
Lycosa babingtoni, Banks, Ent.
News, 2, p. 193.
1892.
Lycosa nidicola.
Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 64. .
Lycosa similis Banks, ibid., p. 64, PI.
II, fig.
30. .
Lycosa crudelis Banks, ibid., p. 66, PI.
3, fig.
37. .
Lycosa nidicola, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 160. .
Lycosa nidicola, Fox, ibid., p. 269.
1895.
Lycosa babingtoni.
Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 3, p. 91. .
Lycosa babingtoni, Banks, Ent.
News, 6, p. 205.
1898.
Lycosa babingtoni, Banks, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., p. 268.
1900.
Lycosa babingtoni.
Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa hellno, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 586. .
Lycosa nidicola Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S., p. 69, figs.
166, 167. .
Lycosa nidicola, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 559, PI.
29, figs.
23, 24.
Type locality.
— New York.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New Hampshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, District of Columbia!, Alabama, North Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, Texas!, Mississippi, Ohio, Indiana!, Illinois!, Iowa!, Kansas!, Colorado, Utah!.
One of the commonest and most widely distributed species, which is subject to much variation in size and in depth of coloration.
Because of the abundance of this species it will be well to indicate the color differences presented by partly grown individuals.
These have the sternum yellow with a narrow black stripe each side of middle line, the two converging and uniting in front of posterior margin, and also a row of small black dots along each lateral margin; the legs with numerous annulations which are present on all joints except tarsi, with sometimes indications of a median one on these; cephalothorax and abdomen above nearly as in adults; venter yellow with black dots minute.
The female L. nidicola builds a shallow excavation or nest under logs and stones along roadsides and in the woods.
She hues the nest with silk and often surrounds it with a low rampart of earth or of sticks and leaves.
They are frequently met with in these nests with their cocoons in early summer.
Lycosa grandia Banks, 1894.
(J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, p.
49.)
Female.
— Coloration and pattern of markings as in helluo, but lighter throughout.
Median pale stripe of cephalothorax clothed with golden brown pubescence with some gray behind and brown at middle part intermixed; sides clothed with brown and golden brown pubescence intermixed; lateral pale stripes with mostly light gray pubescence, less of brown.
Legs clear yellowish, the two first pairs of legs darker, more reddish brown distally.
Sternum and coxae of legs beneath j^ellowish brown, like legs, clothed, like the legs also, with grayish yellow intermixed with longer black hairs.
Abdomen much lighter than in typical Eastern form of helluo; dorsum with the typical markings, but these paler and less distinct; the venter pale yellow without markings of any kind, clothed with yellow pubescence.
Epigyniim reddish black.
Spinnerets pale brown.
Structure and proportions and the relations of the eyes as in helluo.
Epigynum agreeing in detail with that of helluo (PI.
XYII, fig.
1).
A specimen from Baj a California gave the following measurements: Total length, 24 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10.2 mm.
; width, 8 mm.
Length of leg I, 25.9 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9.8 mm.
; met., 5 mm.
Ijength of leg II, 24 mm.
Length of leg III, 23.7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 33.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 11 mm.
; met., 9.6 mm.
Male.
— lighter than the female.
Cheliccra pale yellow with light gray or whitish pubescence which is moderately long.
Palpi pale yellow, the tarsus not darker; tarsus clothed with dense Avhite hair, which occurs also less densely upon the tibia; the patella and femur clothed with yellow hair with some white more sparsely intermixed.
Sternum and coxce of legs pale yellow, these and the legs clothed with light yellow gray pubescence with some black hairs intermixed.
Abdomen with basal dark mark as usual ; middle region of dorsum yellowish, clothed with gray-yellow and brown pubescence intermixed, with on each side behind a row of about six spots of white hair; venter yellow with hght gray pubescence.
Tibia + patella of first legs longer than tibia + patella of fourth ones.
Tarsus of palpus shorter than the two preceding joints together.
Structure of palpal organ agreeing in detail with that of helluo (PL XVII, fig.
2).
A male from Lower California gave the following measurements : Total length, 14.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 7.6 mm.
; width, 6.1 mm.
Length of leg I, 27.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9.8!
mm.
; met., 6.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 22.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 22.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 30.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9.2 !
mm.
; met., 8.8 nmi.
S\ni.
— 1895.
Lycosa grandis Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., 8.
1898.
Lycosa grandis Banks, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
Type locality.
— Colorado.
Known localities.
— Colorado; Baja California!.
So far as I have determined, tibia + patella of fourth legs of the male in Eastern specimens of helluo is longer than tibia + patella of first pair or sometimes, iii large specimens, of the same length, whereas the reverse is seen to be true in grandis.
But as the relative lengths of these two pairs of joints varies in helluo and apparently with the size of the individual, the increased relative length of tibia + patella of the first pair, and in fact of the entire first leg, may not be of much significance.
The agreement between helluo and grandis is thus close excepting in color and size, and it might therefore be more proper to place the latter as a variety under the former.
Lycosa floridana Banks.
(Trans.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, XXIII, p.
72.)
Female.— Cephalothorax with a median light colored longitudinal band which anteriorly is geminated and is nearly as wide as the eye area, with on each side a narrow supramarginal light brown stripe which is discontinuous, being broken into four or more parts.
Chelicerw dark reddish brown.
Sternum brown, with a black mark along middle.
Legs brown, with the distal joints darker, blackish brown; femora above with some rather obscure black marks.
Cox(e brown, all with a black, very distinct line along front face.
Abdomen above black; sides and lateral part of venter blackish over a yellow ground, mixed yellow and black; venter yellow.
Cephalothorax low, its dorsal line straight and but slightly slanting from the third eye row to the posterior dechvity, which is short and steep.
Face in height more than half the length of the chelicerae, sides slanting moderately outward from above downward.
Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second, rather strongly procurved.
Chelicerce armed as usual.
Epigynum relatively small, .8 or .9 mm.
long; in form and structure very similar to that of helluo, but the septum of guide broader and more strongly expanded anteriorly, where it almost extends across the entire depressed area.
Length, 14.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.
; width, 4.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 13 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 6 mm.
; tarsus, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 11.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 11 mm.
Length of leg IV, 15.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7 mm.
; tarsus, 3 mm.
Locality.
— Florida !.
Lycosa apicata Banks, 1904.
(Journ.
X. Y. Ent.
Soc, p. 114, PI.
V, fig.
13.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax brown, marked with a median paler band as wide anteriorly as the third eye row, between the eyes of which it extends in a tongue-like process forward, this narrower process in life clothed with white hair; the median band constricted at the dorsal groove and extending from there down the posterior declivity as narrower stripe; on each side beginning mesally from the eye of the third row a dark line extends posteriorly through the median pale band to the point of its constriction where it unites with the dark of the sides; a narrow, anteriorly interrupted, supramarginal pale stripe with dentate margin.
Chelicene deep chestnut or reddish black.
Labiimi and endites reddish black, the former a little paler apically.
Sternum and coxce of legs beneath black.
Legs light brown; the femora with darker markings which are more distinct on the posterior paire; tibise of fourth legs black at each end beneath, the metatarsi sometimes also darkened distally; legs elsewhere without evident markings.
Abdomen above light brown or yellowish; a dark, blackedged, spear-shaped mark which is laterally dentate and blunt or forked at its posterior end; the spear-mark followed posteriorly with a series of dark chevron-shaped transverse marks, which may be separated by corresponding transverse marks of white hair, the chevrons commonly confluent laterally with dark mottlings at the sides and thereby with each other, in other cases confluent mesally with each other and with the basal mark; sides of abdomen above with spots and streaks of brown, pale below; venter entirely black.
Cephalothorax highest at the third eye row, the dorsal line as seen in profile from there a little sloping and nearly straight to the posterior declivity.
Face relatively low, its sides moderately slanting outward from above below.
Anterior row of eyes clearly shorter than the second, a little procurved; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, about the same distance from the lateral eyes, which are smaller than the median.
Eyes of the second row less than their diameter apart.
Patellae of first and second pairs of legs armed in front with a short spine.
Tibia + patella of first legs about equalling the cephalothorax in length; tibia + patella of fourth legs clearly longer than the cephalothorax and also longer than the metatarsus of same legs.
Chelicene armed as usual, the three teeth of lower margin stout.
The cpigynum having the general form and structure of that of L. helluo (PI.
XVII, fig.
1); septum widest anteriorly, its sides nearly straight ; transverse arms rather thick.
Total length, 13.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6.3 mm.
; width, 4.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 19.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 6.2 mm.
; met., 3.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 16.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 16.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 23.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7 mm.
; met., 6.7 mm.
Male.
— Coloration as for the female; but the markings more distinct.
Palpal organ of the general type of that of L. helluo (PI.
XVII, fig.
2).
The auricula conspicuous, more strongly chitinized than usual, dark in color, turned outward apically.
Principal tenaculum relatively shorter, and more outwardly directed than in helluo.
Total length, 13 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6.8 mm.
; width, 5 mm.
Length of leg I, 20.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7 mm.
; met., 4.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 19.1 mm.
Length of leg III, 19.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 25.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.8 mm.
; met., 7.6 mm.
S3T1.
— 1904.
Lycosa antelucana Montgomerj', Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.
p. 282, PI.
XVIII, figs.
5 and 6.
Type localities.
— Arizona and Texas.
Known localities.
— Arizona!, Texas!, New Mexico.
The descriptions above are from type specimens.
Lyoosa permtinda Chamberlin, 1904.
(Can.
Entomologist, p.
286.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax dark brown; a pale narrow median line extending backward from first eye row, widening abruptly in front of dorsal groove, and then gradually narrowing to a point at posterior margin; a broad light-colored marginal stripe on each side not extending forward farther than the third eye row, its upper margin coarsely dentate, the lower border broken by a few dark dots, but not limited below by a continuous dark line or stripe at margin.
Chelicerce black.
Labium and endites dark brown.
Sternum dark brown, with a yellow median line.
Legs brown, darker distally; beneath unmarked, but having a number of dark cross-bars above on femora and posterior tibise.
Abdomen alcove dark, having the usual lanceolate mark at base, followed by a series of light colored, chevron-formed transverse lines, each ending on each side in a light dot; sides yellowish brown, densely spotted with black; venter also yellowish brown, more sparse^ covered with smaller black dots, much as in helluo.
Length, 22 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10.7 mm.
; width, 8 mm.
Length of leg I^', 30.3 mm.
Male.
— Colored nearly like the female, but paler throughout.
Marginal stripes of cephalothorax not interrupted below by dark spots.
Legs clear brown, without any cross-marking on any joints.
Palpi yellowish brown excepting tarsus, which is black.
Length, 20 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm.
; width, 7.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 32.4 mm.
Locality.
— Kansas !.
In general appearance the female resembles helluo, but is easily separated by structure of epigynum and by various other characters.
The male is conspicuously different in its palpal organ and in size, proportion and structure from those of related species.
Lycosa riparia Hentz, 1844.
(.J.
Bost.
Soc.
N. H., IV, p.
289.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a narrow median light band, widest at dorsal groove, narrowing anteriorly and continuing as a distinct line between eyes to the clypeus; median band formed of grayish-yellow pubescence; tegument of cephalothorax elsewhere deep brown or reddish brown, black over eye area, clothed with black pubescence, intermixed with fewer yellowish or l^rownish-gray hairs which are more abundant below but form no distinct band; rufous hairs about the eyes and on the face.
Chelicerce black with rufous pubescence over upper half and black pubescence below.
Labium and endites black, brown at tips.
Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath black with longer and stiff black hairs and some short gray pubescence.
Ground color of tegument of legs dark reddish brown; the tarsi and metatarsi darker, all joints except these two with distinct light and dark rings, the latter being broader, clothed respectively with grayish-brown and black pubescence, tarsi and metatai-si appearing entirely black because of black scopulae and black pubescence, the shorter brown hairs being few.
Abdomen above grayish brown, with scattered minute spots of black pubescence; a number of black chevron-marks behind and in front an indistinct outline of a lanceolate mark behind a chevron which is commonly divided mesally into two triangular marks; near the middle of lanceolate outline on each side, the dark line more strongly impressed as a black triangular mark \\ ith apex forward ; a light spot laterally from upper part of basal mark; behind on each side a series of light spots which may be indistinct; front face of abdomen and anterolateral angles black; sides dark above, having black pubescence intermixed with brown in fine spots and streaks; in middle the sides are lighter, the brown pubescence being in larger spots.
The venter and commonly the lower part of sides black, but, especially at sides, with spots of brown; often brown pubescence in four narrow lines on venter, converging from lung slits to spinnerets, divide the black of venter into three contiguous bands, much as in aspersa.
Spin7ierets brown, Epigynum black or reddish black.
Face moderate in height, hardly one-half the length of the massive chelicerae.
Cephalothorax above nearly straight and horizontal or but little convex between third row of eyes and posterior declivity; the posterior declivity short, only posterior end of dorsal groove being upon it; sides rather strongly bulging behind; sides of face convex and strongly slanting.
First row of eyes straight or very nearly so, shorter than second row; anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral, less than their radius apart, closer to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes removed from front margin of clypeus and from eyes of second row by about once and a half their diameter; anterior median eyes less than their diameter from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row less than their diameter apart (about three-fourths); quadrangle of posterior ej'es about one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax.
Legs long ; tibia + patella of fourth legs a little longer than cephalothorax and also longer than metatareus of same legs ; tibia + patella of first pair of same length as cephalothorax ; patella of first legs imarmod, patella of second armed anteriorly with a single spine; tibia and metatarsus armed as usual; scopulse on anterior tai-si and metatarsi as usual; scopulse of posterior tarsi divided by setose bands as usual.
For form epigynum see PI.
XVII, fig.
5.
Total length, 18.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 9 mm.
; width, 6.9 mm.
Length of leg I, 24.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9 mm.
; met., 8.5 nun.
Length of leg II, 22.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 21.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 29.6 mm.
; tib.
-|pat., 9.3 mm.
; met., 8.5 mm.
Male.
— For structure of palpal organ see PL XVII, fig.
6.
Syn.— 1875.
Lycosa ripnria Hentz, Sp.
U. S., p. 31, PI.
3, figs.
13, 15. .
Lycosa riparia, Cragin, Contrib.
to Ivnowl.
Araclin., Kansa.s Bull., Washburn, Coll.
1, No.
4, p. 146.
1890.
Lxjcosa riparia, Marx.
Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563.
1900.
Lycosa Hparia, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 539.
Type localities.
— North Carolina, Alabama.
Habitat.
— North Carolina!, South Carolina, Alabama!, Georgia!, Louisiana!, Mississippi, Virginia, West Virginia, District of Columbia!, Kansas, Texas.
"This common spider is aquatic in its habits, ahvays found near or on water, and diving with ease under the surface when threatened or pursued" (Hentz), Lycosa aspersa Hentz, 1844.
(Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p. 389, PI.
XVII, figs.
11, 12.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax dark reddish brown, blackish about the eyes; a lighter uneven-edged marginal band on each side, and a similarly colored narrow median stripe more or less distinct; sides of cephalothorax densely clothed with black pubescence with more scattered hairs of yellowish intermixed ; the narrow median stripe clothed with yellowish or golden-brown hair, which forms a bright stripe which continues forward as a line between the eyes and reaches the anterior row, the stripe expanding posteriorly about the dorsal groove and then again narrowing down the posterior declivity to the posterior margin ; the middle stripe of pubescence sometimes obscure in middle region, but always bright at anterior and posterior portions; along each side similar yellowish hair forms a narrow marginal stripe which is narrower than the broader supramarginal stripe of tegument ; front margin of clypeus at middle with a fringe of yellowish hair.
Chelicene, including claws, black, clothed with moderately long black pubescence without any short paler hairs.
Endites and labium brown-black, lighter at tips.
Sternum black, a narrow light colored median line anteriorly; clothed with black hair.
Coxm of legs beneath black, lighter, yellowish brown, laterally, at base beneath a similarly colored light spot which is mostly acutely pointed distally.
Legs brown, of light shade in young specimens, becoming dark reddish brown with age, deeper colored distally; all joints excepting the tarsi and the metatarsi with light cross-bands which are distinct above, especially on femora, but which may be obscure beneath ; light rings much more distinct in young specimens than in old, and in the latter on the posterior pairs of legs than on the anterior; legs densely clothed with long black hairs intermixed with shorter yellowish pubescence, the latter mostly confined to the lighter bands in tegument.
23/ Abdomen alcove very dark ; a basal black mark with end behind forked and followed by a series of chevron-marks, all the marks usually indistinct in older specimens, in which the entire dorsum is black or nearly so ; dorsum clothed in life with black and grayish-brown pubescence, the lighter pubescence more concentrated anteriorly and anterolaterally, and also forming some mostly obscure transverse chevronpiarks behind; in dark specimens the sides are dark or black-streaked and spotted below with yellow pubescence, with the yellow sometimes predominating over the black ; venter with numerous spots and streaks of yellow pubescence usually arranged mostly in four lines or stripes converging to the spinnerets, and thus dividing the dark into three bands similarly converging caudally.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum reddish brown.
Face rather low, not fully half as high as the chelicene are long, the latter long and massive, considerably longer than the face is wide in front.
Cephalothorax not high, dorsal line highest at third eye row.
from there being nearly straight to the posterior declivity.
Anterior row of eyes as wide as or slightly wider than the second, nearly straight; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, about as far from lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes a little more than two-thirds as large in diameter as the median, once and one-half their diameter from front margin of clypeus, closer to eyes of second row ; eyes of second row a little less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row three-fourths as large as the second, twice as far from each other as from the second ; cephalothorax 6.5 times the length of the quadrangle of posterior eyes.
ChelicerfE armed as usual.
Labium longer than wide (8.5 : 8); basal excavation as usual ; sides strongly convexly bulging, the curvature less above than below; front margin wide, concave for nearly entire width (PI.
IX, fig.
9).
Legs stout; tibia + patella IV shorter than the cephalothorax ; metatai*sus IV of nearly same length as the width of the cephalothorax; tarsi I and II slightly curved.
III and IV straight; tarsi scopulate as usual, the scopula?
on legs I and II extending also over metatarsi and over all but basal portion of tibise ; spines of tibise as usual.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XVII, fig.
7.
Total length, 23 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10.6 mm.
; width.
8.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 25.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9.3 mm.
; met., 5.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 23.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 21.5 mm.
16 Length of leg IV, 30.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9.8 mm.
; met., 8.3 mm.
Male.
— Much hghter in color than the female, but the color patterns are nearly the same.
The lighter pubescence is much more abundant on cephalothorax than in the female, much predominating over that of blackish color.
Legs much lighter with the yellow pubescence dense, while the longer black hairs are comparatively sparse; femora with traas verse dark bands above, but these indistinct or absent at sides and ventrally ; distinct dark rings on tibiae.
Labium and endites sometimes colored as in female but often much lighter, almost yellow.
Coxce of legs beneath with black on ventral surface, often reduced to a few spots at distal end, the coxae being elsewhere yellow.
On the abdomen also the yellow and brown pubescence predominates over the black, the latter appearing over the black basal band (which is distinct, widest toward posterior end and pointed anteriorly), over the anterolateral angles and in variously formed spots and streaks laterally, most of the dorsum being thus in life of a golden brown color; venter usually yellow with some spots of black, less often as in the female.
The chelicerce clothed on basal half with long golden yellow hairs, distally with black hairs.
Tibia + patella IV longer than the cephalothorax, of same length as the metatarsus; patellae I and II armed in front and behind.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XVII, fig.
8.
Total length, 18 mm.
I^ength of cephalothorax, 9.1 mm.
; greatest width, 7.2 mm, Length of leg I, 30.1 imii.
; tib.
+ pat., 10 mm.
; met., 7.4 mm.
Length of leg II, 27.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 26.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 35 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 10.5 mm.
; met., 10.5 mm.
Syn.
— 1876.
Tarentula inhonesta Keyserling, Verh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. '634, PI.
7, fig.
17.
1878.
Tarentula tigrina McCook.
1885.
Lycosa vulpina Emerton, Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 487, PI.
47, fig.
2.
1890.
Tarentula inhonesta, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12. .
Lycosa vulpina, Marx, ibid.
1890.
Lycosa tigrina, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 423.
1892.
Lycosa vulpina, Banks, op.
cit., 44, p. 67, PI.
I, fig.
39. .
Lycosa tigrina, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 160. .
Lycosa tigrina, Fox, ibid., p. 538.
1898.
Lycosa tigrina, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2.
1900.
Lycosa fatifera.
Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Pliila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa inhonesta, Montgomery, op.
cit., p. 557, PI.
29, figs.
21, 22.
1904.
Lycosa inhonesta, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 290, PL XX, figs.
38, 39.
Type locality.
— "North America."
Known localities.
— Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York!, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia, Alabama, Georgia!, Indiana, Kansas!.
A well-known species of burrowing habits.
Lycosa arenioola Scudder, 1877.
(Psyche, 2, p.
2.)
Female.
— Tegument of cephalothorax dark reddish brown to blackish, scarcely lighter above ; a median lighter band a little wider than third eye row in front, strongly narrowed anteriorly to dorsal groove and usually expanding again back of groove; the band chiefly produced by a finer gray or white pubescence intermixed with coarser brown, the tegument beneath being usually but little lighter than on sides; sides of cephalothorax covered with brown pubescence, gray hairs scattered but showing .more abundantly below, especially posteriorly.
Chelicerce dark reddish brown to nearly black, clothed with a dense coat of rusty brown colored pubescence, fringe along furrow of chelicerae brighter, reddish or coffee colored.
Labium and endites dark reddish brown, paler distally.
Sternum dark reddish brown to nearly black.
Anterior coxce of legs dark brown to nearly black, posterior coxae lighter.
Legs reddish brown, the anterior pairs darker than the posterior; the femora, patellae and tibiae of the first and second legs nearly black beneath; distal ends of posterior tarsi and metatarsi usually darker ; legs clothed with dense coat of mixed gray and brown pubescence and longer dark brown bristles, scopulae brown.
Abdomen densely pubescent; a dark brown median band on dorsum reaching to the spinnerets behind, which just in front of middle has on each side a broad indentation, and which has behind the middle a series of narrow paired indentations ; the band covered or largely formed by dark brown pubescence.
Sides of dorsum grayish brown, the pubescence being brown and gray intermixed, the brown more abundant above; a dark brown band of same color as median one crossing each anterolateral angle and running obliquely backward and downward, meeting the venter back of middle.
Vejiter brown to dark brown, usually a darker band from genital furrow to spinnerets.
Epigynum dark reddish brown.
Spinnerets brown.
Cephalothorax wide in front ; in profile second eyes seem to be lower down on face than usual, highest at third eye row ; pars cephalica convex ; posterior declivity beginning on pars cephalica a considerable distance in front of thoracic furrow, making the decHvity very long and the posterior portion of cephalothorax very low and exagp;erating apparent height of front part.
Face moderate in height, not fully half the length of the chelicer?
?, protruding above over base; sides convex, slanting below.
Anterior row of eyes almost as wide as second, a little procurved; anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, not fully their radius apart, about as close as to lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from eye^ of second row, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row their diameter or slightly more than their diameter apart, not fully half as far again from eA^es of third row.
Quadrangle of posterior eyes hardly one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three equal teeth, the upper jnargin with three as usual ; the smaller teeth above more than usually stout.
Legs distinctly increasing in thickness from the fourth to the first, the first conspicuously stoutest; tarsi and metatarsi I and II densely scopulate; tarsus III with scopula divided by a median setose band; tarsus IV with scopulse much reduced, the scopular hairs being sparse along each side, the setose band occupying most of ventral surface; tibiae I and II and metatarsi I and II armed as usual, the spines of tibia?
usually slender and easily rubbed off or overlooked; patellae I and II each armed in front with a spine ; tibiae III and IV without true spines above; femora I and II bent forward, IV backward, less so; III nearly straight.
Tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax ; metatarsus IV much shorter than tibia + patella, but longer than tibia, less than width of cephalothorax.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XX, fig.
9.
Total length, 20.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10.1 mm.
; width, 7.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 23 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8.1 mm.
; met., 4.9 mm.
Length of leg II, 20.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 19.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 26.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9 mm.
; met., 6.9 mm.
Syn.
— 1881.
Tarentula nidifex Marx, Am.
Nat., p. 396.
1885.
Lycosa nidifex (Marx) Emerton, Trans.
Conn.
Acad., VI, p. 487, PI.
47, figs.
4, 4a.
1888.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, McCook, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1888, p. 333.
1889.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Marx, Araneae N. A., pp.
561 and 594, note 3d.
1890.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1892.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Marx, Proc.
E. S. W., II, p. 160.
1895.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Banks, J. N. Y. E. S., Ill, p. 91.
1898.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Simon, Hist.
Nat., II, p. 341.
1902.
Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Montgonierv, Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 550, PI.
XXIX, fig.
13.
1904.
Geohjcosa arenicola, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 299.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts, Rhode Island!, Connecticut!, New York (Long Island!
), New Jersey, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Indiana.
This species is our best known turret builder.
Its burrows are commonl}^ from 10 to 12 inches deep, often one-half inch wide, and are surmounted by turrets usually one and one-half inches in height.
^ ^ Lyoosa fatifera Hentz, 1842. '
(Bost.
J. N.
Hist., IV, p. 229, PI.
2, fig.
8.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with dark red-brown tegument, often blackish about eyes ; clothed with tawny colored or rufous pubescence and showing no markings.
Chelicerce dark reddish brown, with brown or grayish-brown pubescence, rufous distally along furrow.
Labium and endites reddish brown, lighter at tips.
Sternum and coxce of leg beneath light or yellowish brown, clothed with gray pubescence.
Legs reddish brown; the femora beneath much lighter, yellowish; the tibi£e, tarsi and metatarsi commonh^ much darker, especially in anterior pairs clothed with grayish pubescence; scopulse brown.
Abdomen above dark brown, clothed with dense brown or tawny pubescence; venter with light, sometimes grayish-brown pubescence.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynwn dark reddish brown.
Cephalothorax very wide in front, nearly five-sixths as wide as behind, the sides but little bulging.
In profile the cephalothorax is seen to have pars cephalica large and convex; highest between eyes of third row and dorsal groove ; posterior declivity long, the median furrow being upon its upper portion.
Face appearing rather high, but only slightly, if at all, more than half the length of the massive chelicerse; sides convex and slanting as usual.
First row of eyes as long as second, a little procurved; anterior median eyes more than their radius apart, as far from the anterior lateral eyes which are smaller; anterior lateral eyes more than their diameter from eyes of the second row, more than once and a half their diameter from front margin of clypeus ; anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, or nearly so; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes about one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax.
Legs rather short and stout; the fourth pair two and one-half times the length of the cephalothorax; the second pair twice as long as the cephalothorax; tibia + patella IV shorter than the cephalothorax, same length as tibia -(patella I ; metatarsus IV shorter than tibia + patella IV by one-third of its own length ; first and second tarsi and metatarsi and distal end of tibiae scopulate; tarsi III and IV with scopulae divided by a median setose band; patella I and III armed in front (within) with a single spine.
The epigynum of Lycosa fatifera is very much like that of Lycosa lenta, but is smaller, being not more than half as long, also the septal piece of the guide in lenta is more than two and one-fourth times as long as the cross-piece, whereas it is less than twice as long in fatifera; the cross-piece is also somewhat differently shaped in the two (PI.
XX, fig.
8.)
Total length, 17.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 9.3 mm.
; width, 6.5 mm.
Length of leg I, 20.5 mm.
; tib, -F pat., 8 mm.
; met., 4.4 mm.
Length of leg II, L8.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 16.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 23.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8 mm.
; met., 6.1 mm.
Type locality.
— Alabama.
Known localities.
— Alabama!, Georgia!, Texas, Missouri!, Kansas!, Illinois, Utah !.
Syn.— 1832.
Lycosa fatifera Sill, J. Sc.
and Arts (ad.
part.
), pp.
106-107.
1875.
Lycosa fatifera Hentz, Spiders of U. S. (Burgess), p. 26, PI.
2, fig.
8.
1895.
Lycosa missouriensis Banks, Ent.
News., Vol.
IV, p. 206.
1899.
Lycosa domifex Hancock, Ent.
News, Vol.
X, p. 26.
1904.
Geolycosa latifrons Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 295, PI.
XIX, figs.
15-18.
It seems very probable that Hentz, in his notes on habits, has conf oimded two species under the name fatifera ; but the description and the figure which he gives can hardly be applicable to any other species than the one under consideration.
The description and figure indicate a form without distinct markings, and his statement that a "piceous variety is found in Alabama, with the two first joints of the legs pectus and abdomen yellowish underneath, or lighter in color," applies perfectly to some specimens of the form above described which I have from this same locality, and which is very common there and must have been well known to Hentz.
This form fits only his description of fatifera among all treated by him.
The species which Hentz observed living in holes in Massachusetts, and which he says is common there, may have been L. aspersa {inhonesta), as has been suggested by Banks, but far more likely it was arenicola, the common turret builder of that region.
Hentz says: "Cheliceres covered with rufous hairs," which is not so in most specimens of aspersa.
The strong markings of aspersa would not have been passed over.
However, Hentz would seem to have written his description after he had been in the South and away from Massachusetts for many years, and doubtless had before him only the Southern form, which he erroneously supposed to be the same as the turret builder he recalled as common in Massachusetts.
Old and rubbed specimens of arenicola might appear similar, as the markings in this form are due to color of the hair.
Whatever Northern form it was the habits of which Hentz had in mind, it was long ago separated under another name, and this common and widespread Southern form which Hentz undoubtedly described as and called fatifera must logically continue to bear this name.
The species has been found abundant in the ''sandy waters bordering the lower end of Lake Michigan" by Mr. J. C. Hancock ('99) who says : "Patches of high grass, sedges and ragweeds made the open lay of ground a paradise of running spiders.
Here it was the castle-building species [termed by him domifex] seemed perfectly at home, showing its varied accomplishments to best advantage.
The artfully-hidden castle is not apparent to the uninitiated while walking over the ground, as it is commonly secreted in a recess of overhanging dried grass When one remembers the average size of the adult castle, only fiveeighths of an inch high and a little over one-half inch in diameter, it is obvious that close inspection is quite essential.
Usually the spider's tube is constructed vertically in the ground, unless obstructions cause some deviations Old spiders live in their burrows for more than a season and often remodel them after being injured by storms.
Younger specimens re-dig outgro^vn burrows, enlarging them as occasion requires Materials used in the construction of the turrets were green and dried grass leaves, dried fine sedges, leaves of foxtail grass, fibrous roots, etc.
Young specimens not infrequently build a perfect httle tower, almost entirely of stones, and one I have in mind had nine such particles made into a compact edifice five millimeters high.
The masonry was exquisitely put up, every stone bearing out true proportions about the central opening of four millimeters diameter.
Silk used as cement held the whole together securely."
The author has found the burrows of this species abundant over grassy stretches on the foothills near Salt Lake City.
In the case of some burrows no turrets are present; but in most cases turrets of dried sticks, grass or earth are found.
Lycosa lenta Hentz, 1844.
(J. Bost.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p.
386.).
Female.— Tegument of cephalothorax reddish brown as usual, lighter brown in a median band which may be very indistinct anteriorly, also lighter along margins, with radiating light lines connecting middle and side bands; clothed principally with light gray pubescence, which is densest in a rather wide marginal band each side and in a middle band, widening from eyes until as wide as eye area at point between eyes and dorsal groove and then suddenly narrowed to only about half as wide, and from there very gradually narrowing caudad ; the median band and lateral band of gray on each side connected by radiating lines of same color; on the sides a dark brown pubescence intermixed with the line of gray and more aljundant above, below the median gray band.
Chelicerce black, the lateral condyles red, clothed with a dense light gra}^ or yellowish gray pubescence.
Labium and endites black or dark brownblack, lighter distally.
Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath black or dark brown-black, clothed with gray and longer, stiffer dark brown or blackish pubescence.
Legs brown to yellowish, clothed with light gray to brown-gray pubescence ; scopulaB brown ; legs without rings or markings above.
Abdomen gray-brown from gray and brown pubescence intermixed, usually in fine streaks and dots; a lanceolate outline or more rarely solid mark at base which is truncated or bifurcated behind ; on posterior half a few more indistinct chevron-marks, each bordered behind by a light line, ending in a light spot each side; a row of triangular dark spots on each side behind but connected by the light cross-lines.
Sides of abdomen light gray, immaculate or with a few spots of brown.
Venter in front of lung-slits brown or gray, often black along the middle; behind lung-slits solid black or sometimes with a light central spot surrounded with black.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum dark reddish brown.
Cephcdothorax high, highest a little behind third eye row, line of dorsum a little convex; dorsal groove partly above and partly on posterior declivity.
Face hardly above half the length of the long and massive chelicerse, the sides convex and slanting about as usual.
Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, nearly straight; anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral (3 : 2), less than their radius apart and about the same distance from the lateral; anterior lateral eyes a little more than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, scarcely closer to eyes of second row; anterior median eyes less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row less than three-fourths their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes not fully one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax.
Legs moderately long and stout; the posterior tarsi rather slender; tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax ; patella I and II armed in front with a spine; tibiae and metatarsi I and II armed below as usual, the spines small and weak; tarsi and metatai-si I and II scopulate as usual; the scopulce of tarsi III and IV divided by rather narrow median setose bands.
For structure of epigynum see PL XVIII, fig, 8.
Total length, 22 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 11 mm.
; width, 7.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 28.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 10 mm.
; met., 6 mm.
Length of leg II, 25.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 25 mm.
Length of leg IV, 32.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 10 mm.
; met., 9.2 mm.
Male.
— Coloration nearly as in female.
Chelicerce above with light yellow-gray pubescence; pubescence on distal portion dark, but fringe along furrow light gray.
Patella I and II armed both in front and behind ; spines on tibia3 and metatarsi I and II comparatively long, not reduced as in female.
Patella and tibia about equal in length and stoutness, together as long as the tarsus which is distinctly thicker.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XVIII, fig.
8.
Total length, 20.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10.5 mm.
; width, S mm.
Length of leg I, 35.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 12.2 mm.
; met., 8.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 33 mm.
Length of leg III, 30.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 40 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 12.5 mm.
; met., 11.6 mm.
Svn.
— 1844.
Lycosa ruricola Hentz, J. Bost.
Nat.
Hist., p. 387.
1875.
Lycosa lenta Hentz, Sp.
of U. S., p. 27, PI.
3, figs.
1, 2, 3, 4. .
Lycosa ruricola Hentz, ibid., p. 28, PI.
3, figs.
5, 6.
1890.
Lycosa lenta, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12.
1892.
Lycosa ruricola Hentz, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., II, p. 160.
1898.
Lycosa lenta Hentz, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
des.
Araign, II, p. 333.
1900.
Lycosa lenta Hentz, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
Locality.
— Pennsylvania, North and South Carolina.
Known localities.
— Pennsylvania, North Carolina !, South Carolina, Alabama!, Georgia, Florida.
It would seem probable that Hentz did not in all cases distinguish this form from his erratica, and that his account applies partly to the latter species.
What he regarded as the typical form, however, was a burrow-making species, although, like carolinensis, etc., found wandering about and hiding under stones, for in his discussions of erratica he says: "This species I formerly supposed to be a variety of L. lenta, but it was always found wandering and never in holes.
I therefore consider it as perfectly distinct, having been often seen running in the grass."
Concerning lenta he remarks: " This common and powerful species is found wandering in fields, attacking and subduing very large insects.
The female carries her young on her back, which gives her a horrible appearance.
If caught or wounded the little ones escape rapidly in all directions; but the mother is faithful to her duties and defends her progeny while life endures.
It hides under stones^ logs, etc."
Var.
baltimoriana (Keyserling), 1876.
(Sub Tarenlula, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p.
632.)
Patellse and distal ends of tibiae black beneath; femora of the fii'st and second legs with a dark line along posterior side and one or two similar ones above, these replaced with corresponding row^s of dots on posterior femora.
Otherwise agreeing with type form.
Syn.— 1890.
Tarentula baltimoriana, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563.
1902.
Lycosa baltimoriana, Montgomerj^, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 561, PI.
29, fig.
25.
1904.
Lycosa baltimoriana.
Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, XII, p. -114. .
Geolycosa baltimoriana, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.,.
p. 297.
Type locality.
— Baltimore, Md.
Known localities.
— Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Maryland, District of Columbia, Virginia, Texas.
I have seen too few specimens of this form to be able to determine satisfactorily the validity of its rank as a variety.
It is maintained here as such tentatively.
Females showing the variant colors are not known to me personally, nor have such been reported.
Lyooia carolinensis Walckenaer, 1837.
(Insect.
Apt., p. 285).
Female.
— Tegument of cephalothorax uniformly dark reddish brown covered with a dense coat of brown and gray hair making it more or less mouse-colored, showing in fully grown individuals commonly no distinct markings; in some a gray supramarginal band on each side and a similar median one along the dorsum, widening from behind anteriorly.
CheliceroB black, covered with a coat of orange-yellow hairs with more sparse long brown bristles; the dense fringe along furrow reddish brown or rust colored.
Labium and endites black, brown at tips.
Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath black, covered with brown hairs.
Tegument of legs reddish brown, darker distally, paler on ventral surface of femora; on ventral surface at distal end of femur and at both ends of tibia black, these dark bands covered with dark brown hair; the scopuloe of same brown color, but legs elsewhere clothed with much lighter hair which is light brownish gray to whitish.
Abdomen with the tegument light brown; at base a dark or blackish median stripe which bifurcates at its caudal end and sends out from its sides several pairs of pointed lines directed caudo-laterally; behind the basal stripe a series of chevron-shaped laterally and anteriorly acutely pointed dark cross-marks, often a series of light dots along each side; doi-sum densely covered above with long brown to grayish-brown pubescence, except over the dark marks which are clothed and made more distinct by black hair; sides of abdomen above dark with brown and black pubescence intermixed in spots and streaks, the sides below becoming paler, yellow to gray or almost white with larger but more sparse black spots; venter nearly always deep brown or black, due largely to the pubescence being very dense and of the latter color; sometimes a light mark or spot within the light area on each side of middle line, leaving three black stripes converging and uniting in front of the spinnerets and united by a cross-bar behind the genital furrow, while in other rarer cases the reduction of the black may be carried even farther.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum reddish black.
Face in height moderate, more than half the length of the chelicerae ; sides stronglyconvex and moderately slanting outward below, not so steep as in scutulata.
Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, but little procurved ; anterior median eyes not fully theirradius apart, a little farther from the lateral eyes which are a little smaller; clypeus wide, the anterior lateral eyes more than one and one-half times their diameter, or rather nearer twice from its front margin, closer to eyes of second row; eyes of second row not proportionately large, not much less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row twice as far apart as from those of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes relatively short, being not fully one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax, Chelicerce long and very robust, the margins of its furrows armed in typical manner.
Labium a little longer than wide (12.5 : 11.75); basal excavation one-third or a little more the total length; labium above excavations broadly rectangular, as wide above as below, the sides nearly parallel and scarcely curved, antero-lateral angles rounded ; front margin widely truncate.
Legs long and robust; tibia -fpatella IV shorter than the cephalothorax, of same length or nearly so as tibia + patella I; spines of anterior tibiae beneath as usual; patella I and II each armed on the anterior side with a single spine ; anterior tarsi and metatarsi beneath with dense scopular pads which extend also over tibiae except at basal third or half ; scopulse of posterior legs not extending upon tibia;, divided as usual.
Epigynum oblong, rounded anteriorly; guide inversely T-shaped with the transverse arm shorter and stouter; lateral furrows narrow and of same width throughout.
(PI.
XXI, fig.
1.)
Total length, 34.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 14 mm.
; width, 11. mm.
Length of leg I, 38.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 13.2 mm.
; met., 8 mm.
Length of leg II, 35 mm.
Length of leg III, 31.7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 42 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 13.2 mm.
; met., 10.8 mm.
Male.
— Rather lighter in color than the female.
Chelicerce very densely covered with grayish-yellow hair, the heavy fringe of the furrow rufous.
Patellae of legs I and II armed both in front and behind.
Patella and tibia of palpus of nearly same length and thickness, the tibia enlarging distally; tarsus a little shorter than the two preceding joints together.
For structure of tarsal organ see PL XXI, fig.
2.
Total length, 21 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 11.1 mm.
; width 8.6 mm.
Length of leg I, 35.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 12.2 mm.
; met., 8.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 32.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 28.7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 40.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat,, 12.3 mm.
; met., 11.5 mm.
Svn.
— 1842.
Lycosa carolinensisl , Bosc MSS., Hentz, J.
B. Soc.
N. H., 4, ^p.
230.
1852.
Lycosa pilosa Girard, Marcy's Expl.
Red R. of La., p. 252, PI.
16, figs.
4 and 5.
1875.
Lycosa carolinensis?
, Bosc MSS., Hentz, Sp.
of U. S., p. 27, PI.
2, fig.
9.
1885.
Lycosa carolinensis Hentz, Emerton, Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 486, PI.
47, figs.
1 to 16.
1890.
Lycosa carolinensis, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. .
Lycosa carolinensis, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 423.
1892.
Lycosa caroliyiensis, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 160. .
Lycosa carolinensis, Fox, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 269.
1894.
Lycosa carolinensis, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 2, p. 50.
1895.
Lycosa carolinensis.
Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., 8, p. 429.
— .
Lycosa carolinensis.
Banks, Ent.
News, 6, p. 205.
1896.
Lycosa carolinensis.
Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 4, p. 192.
1898.
Lycosa carolinensis, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2, pp.
332 and 347.
1900.
Lycosa carolinensis.
Banks, Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa carolinensis.
Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Pliila.
p. 586.
1902.
Lycosa carolinensis, Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S., p. 73, fig.
176. .
Lycosa carolinensis, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 556.
1904.
Geolycosa texana Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 293, PI.
XVIII, figs.
13, 14 (color var.).
.
Geolycosa carolinensis, Montgomery, ihid., p. 299.
Type locality.
— "Carolina."
Known localities.
— New Hampshire!, Massachusetts, Rhode Island!, Connecticut, New York!, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia!, North Carolina!, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi !, Texas !, Kansas !, Indiana, Colorado, Utah !.
Our largest Lycosa, much resembling in its large size and in coloration the famous Tarcntula of southern Europe and its close allies.
Specimens from the Southwest often differ from the typical form in having the venter in part pale as above described.
"This spider has the same habits as L. fatijera, making deep excavations in the ground.
It is frequently found under stones, and possibly it is in such places, nearer the surface, that the eggs are hatched.
The female carries her young on her back, presenting a hideous aspect, being then apparently covered with animated warts.
The little monsters have the instinct, if the mother is much disturbed, to escape and scatter in all directions.
The male, not unfrequently of an enormous size, is often found wandering in October and November in Alabama, and sometimes enters houses" (Hentz), Concerning its habits in New England, Emerton says: "This species digs a hole six or eight inches deep, but is often found under stones or running in fields and occasionally in houses all over New England."
This species is common in Utah, where the males are frequently seen wandering in the open or hiding under stones.
The females dig deep burrows which are sometimes surmounted with turrets, but not so commonly so as in the case of fatijera, Lycosa coloradensis Banks, 1894.
(J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, p.
50.)
Female.
— Tegument of cephalothorax reddish brown, densely clothed with pubescence which nearly completely masks the ground color.
A median light band as wide anteriorly as the eye area, but abruptly narrowed at dorsal groove to only half that width or less ; this median band formed of brown-gray pubescence, often mixed anteriorly with darker pubescence which obscures the distinctness of the band.
Sides of cephalothorax clothed with dark, brownish to grayish black pubescence, mixed with gray like that of median band, the gray predominating, principally arranged in wide radiating bands and becoming more abundant below, where it forms on each side a marginal band which is widest anteriorly where it nearly touches eye area.
Chelicerm with tegument blackish or reddish black, completely masked on upper half with dense pubescence of rusty brown color, that of lower half dark and very sparse, paler along furrow of chelicerce.
Labium and endites black or nearly so, lighter at tips.
Sternum and coxm of legs beneath black or nearly so.
Femora of legs beneath light gray, the tibiae and more especially the tarsi and metatarsi darker brown because of scopulae, the ends of femora and of last four tibiae black; above the femora a little darker than below, brown, but distal joints no darker, no bands at end of any joints showing above.
Legs densely clothed with pubescence which give the colors as above, the tegument itself being reddish brown above and much paler, yellowish, beneath except at ends of femora and last two pairs of tibiae which are black.
Abdomen with middle of dorsum light brown or grayish brown, a dark brown basal lanceolate mark with its margins deeper, its points behind terminating in the apex of a dark chevron-mark, which is followed behind by several other chevrons.
The lanceolate mark giving off laterally most commonly two pairs of lines running latero-caudally on each side ; side of dorsum dark brown or blackish with numerous small light dots and enclosing on each side a series of large light spots along sides of chevrons, and at outer ends of the lines from basal mark an ocellate light spot contiguous with each side of basal spear-mark near its middle.
Upper portion of sides dark brown to black with numerous light spots and darker, below the sides are gray with dark brown or black spots.
Venter in front of lung-slits and in a smaller spot at base of spinnerets black, elsewhere gray, with or without small dots of black.
Spinnerets dark brown.
Epigynum black or reddish black.
Cephalothorax behind rather low ; in profile highest at third eye row or a Httle behind it, a Uttle depressed or notched at dorsal groove.
Face low, one-half in height the length of the chelicerse.
Front row of eyes shorter than second ; eyes of first row very nearly equal in size; eyes of second row three-fourths their diameter apart; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, closer still to front margin of clypeus; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax.
Leg IV less than three times the length of the cephalothorax; tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax, longer than metatarsus; metatarsus IV nearly of same length tib.
+ pat.
I; metatarsi and tarsi I and II scopulate; tarsi III and IV with wide setose bands dividing scopulae.
Tibiae I and II armed as usual.
Patella II armed in front with a single spine.
For structure of epigyyium see PI.
XVIII, fig.
6.
Total length, 18 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 8 mm.
; width, 6 mm.
Length of leg I, 18.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.9 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Length of leg II, 17.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 17.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 22.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.2 mm.
; met., 6 mm.
Male.
— Coloration similar to female; pattern on abdomen rather more distinct and spots on sides fewer.
Patella I and II armed both in front and behind.
Tibia and patella of palpus siibequal in length and thickness, together as long as tarsus; tarsus much thicker than preceding joints.
For structure of palpal organ see PL XVIII, fig.
7.
Total length, 13.3 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6.7 mm.
; width, 5 mm.
Length of leg I, 23.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8.1 mm.
; met., 5.9 nam.
Length of leg II, 21.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 19.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 26.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8.1 mm.
; met., 7.6 mm.
Type locality.
— Colorado.
Known localities.
— Colorado !, Arizona !, New Mexico, Kansas !.
Lycosa erratica Hentz, 1842. i^ ^ (Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 4, p.
388.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax blackish brown, less commonly paler; a reddish yellow or reddish brown median band, narrowest behind, which widens distinctly at posterior end of pars cephalica and becomes as wide as third eye row, from which point it contracts to a narrowstripe or line which continues forward to the first eye row; along each lateral margin a light band similarly colored to the median one, the lateral bands bisected by a dark line at least anteriorly; the median pale band clothed with light gray or brownish-white pubescence which between the eyes becomes yellowish, the lateral bands similarly clothed ; sides of cephalothorax clothed with similar hair intermixed with much black which is most abundant along each side of the median band, but becomes more and more sparse below toward the margins.
Cheliceras dark reddish brown, clothed with short yellowish pubescence and with intermixed longer black bristles, a fringe of long dark gray hair along the margin of furrow.
Labium and endites reddish brown.
Sternum blackish, with usually a paler median stripe; clothed with grayish brown and more scattered blackish hairs.
Legs and palpi brown covered with a short brownish gray pubescence with the usual longer blackish hairs intermixed ; all femora with dark cross-bands or annulations which are present also at the ends and in the middle of the tarsi and metatarsi and at the middle of the patellae of the posterior pairs, but which are not present on these joints of the anterior pairs; the dark annuli on the femora mostly incomplete below; the anterior and posterior face of each femur commonly with a longitudinal black line or stripe.
Abdomen with a wide pale band over the dorsum, narro wingusually to a point at the spinnerets ; within the pale band at base a dark, black-edged, lanceolate mark which extends to or often much beyond the middle, ending usually in a forked apex and followed behind usually by a triangular mark and several dark cross-lines; at other times the basal stripe ends acutely; less commonly it is entirely absent; sides of dorsum laterad of light band dark brown enclosing a series of large angular black spots; sides above brown becoming lighter below, usually marked with numerous small black spots ; venter whitish or light yellow, without spots, but in the great majority of cases marked by a black U-shaped stripe, each arm of which has its end behind a lung-slit, the bent middle part being at the spinnerets, the arm of the U-shaped band often connected by a cross-band behind the genital furrow; sometimes the venter is entirely pale without any markings.
Epiyynum reddish brown.
Spinnerets smoky brown to black.
Face moderate in height, the chehcerae about one and three-fourths times as long; sides convex and moderately divergent beloAv.
Anterior row of eyes moderately procurved, shorter than the second by twice the diameter of a lateral eye; anterior median eyes their radius apart, closer to the smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, a little farther from margin of clypeus; eyes of second row their diameter apart, not much farther from the threefourths as large eyes of the third row ; eyes of third row twice as far from each other as from eyes of second row; cephalothorax rather less than five times the length of the cephalothorax.
CheUcerce armed as usual, the third tooth of lower margin of furrow a little reduced.
Labium much longer than wide (16 : 12.5); basal excavation of usual length; sides evenly convexly curved from excavations to anterior angles; front margin truncate.
Legs long, the distal joints slender, especially so the posterior metatarsi ; tibia + patella IV longer than cephalothorax which is longer than tibia + patella I; anterior tibiae with spines as usual; scopulae of tarsi as usual, those of anterior pairs extending also upon metatarsi except at base ; patella II armed within.
Ends of transverse arms of guide of epigynum almost always characteristically excavated on anterior side of ends (PI.
XVII, fig.
3).
Total length, 14 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.4 mm.
; width, 4 mm.
Length of leg I, 14.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5 mm.
; met., 2.9 mm.
Length of leg II, 13.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 13.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 19.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.9 mm.
; met., 4.9 mm, Male.
— Coloration as in female but rather brighter.'
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XVII, fig.
4.
Syn.
— 1844.
Lycosa sagittata Hentz.
1846.
Lycosa -propinqua Blackwall, 1846 (Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
XVII, pp.
31, 32).
1875.
Lycosa erratica Hentz, Sp.
U. S. (Burgess), p. 29, PI.
3, fig.
8.
1876.
Tarentula lepida Keyserling, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 631, PI.
7, fig.
15. '
1877.
Tarentula scalaris, Thorell, Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Terr., Ill, No.
2, p. 520.
1885.
Lycosa communis Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 489.
1890.
Lycosa erratica, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. .
Lycosa communis, Marx, loc.
cit.
.
Lycosa communis, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 426.
1891.
Lycosa erratica, Banks, Ent.
News, 2, p. 86.
1892.
Lycosa communis, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 160. .
Lycosa communis.
Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pbila., 44, p. 64. .
Lycosa communis.
Fox, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 269.
1895.
Lycosa erratica, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, Vol.
3, p. 91. .
Lycosa erratica.
Banks, Ent.
News, 6, p. 205.
1898.
Lycosa erratica, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2, p. 331.
1900.
Lycosa erratica, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa communis, Emerton, Common Sp.
of U. S., p. 75, figs.
181, 182. .
Lycosa lepida, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pbila., p. 562, PI.
29, figs.
26, 27.
1904.
Lycosa lepida, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 287.
Type locality.
— Massachusetts and Alabama.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts !, Connecticut, Rhode Island !, New Hampshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, District of Columbia!, Alabama, Louisiana!, Texas, Georgia!, North Carolina!, Ohio, Illinois, Iowa!, Kansas!, Colorado!, Arizona!, Utah!, Montana!.
I do not think there is room for doubt that the species above described is the real erratica of Hentz, when one considers the abdominal markings shown in his figure, in connection with his comments on habits and the localities where he found it common.
Hentz says concerning this species that it "was always found wandering and never in holes; .... it was often seen, generally running in the grass."
This is a very common and widely distributed species, found under stones and logs in the woods and especially in grassy meadows.
It is subject to much variation in size, though its characteristic markings are rarely missed.
Xyoosa scutulata Hentz, 1842.
(Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., IV, p.
390.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a dark chocolate-colored band each 17 side of the middle line which is widest behind and narrowing forward is prolonged over the eyes of the corresponding side to the front margin of the clj^peus, and in young specimens continues down the chelicerae of the same side to near its distal end; these bands are covered with a blackish pubescence with intermixed lighter yellowish hairs; between these dark bands is a narrower yellowish-brown median band which is much constricted between the last two rows of e3^es, but expands again upon the face before reaching the margin of clypeus, this band clothed with yellowish-gray pubescence, clear yellow in front; the sides of cephalothorax below dark bands colored and clothed similarh^ to median band with below a chocolate-colored submarginal line.
ChelicercB reddish brown covered with yellowish or grayish-yellow pubescence at the distal end, within along the femora a fringe of longer hair of somewhat rusty tinge.
Labium reddish brown, clothed with a grayish or tawny pubescence with intermixed longer, stiffer black hair.
Sternum, endites and coxce of legs beneath light brown.
Legs and palpi light brown, the tarsi and metatarsi mostly darker, as also the tibiae at distal ends; the femora with some rather faint longitudinal darker lines clothed with tawny pubescence with intermixed hair of blackish color, the longer ones of the latter pale on distal halves.
Abdomen with a broad blackish median band extending the entire length narrowed from near middle towards each end, this band covered with intermixed dark brown and blackish pubescence, the band indentated with a brownish-yellow notch on each side in front of middle and behind either with a series of similar indentations of yellow or enclosing corresponding pairs of submarginal spots; each side of median band a narrow broAvnish band appearing yellow because covered hy a dense coat of yellowish pubescence; sides with tegument brown, sheathed with lines of blackish-brown and yellowish pubescence above, paler yellow with black spots below.
Tegument of venter brown, densely clothed with yellow pubescence and with small spots of black pubescence, mostly arranged over one or two pairs of darker lines converging toward the spinnerets.
Spirmerets rather dark broAA'U.
Epigynum blackish.
Smaller specimens are paler, and the venter may be without spots and unmarked except for faint indications of the posteriorly converging lines.
Cephalothorax highest at third row of eyes, dorsal line in profile a little depressed at front of median groove.
Face high, two-thirds as high as chelicerffi are long, in profile slightly convex and protrudes a little above.
Anterior row of eyes procurved, shorter than the second by twice their diameter; eyes subeqiial in size and nearly equidistant, being separated from each other by a space rather less than their radius; anterior lateral eyes more than their diameter from the front margin of clypeus, closer to the eyes of second row; eyes of second row large, less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row two-thirds as large as those of the second, nearly twice as far from each other as from eyes of second row; cephalothorax five times as long as quadrangle of posterior eyes.
Margins of furrow of the chelicera?
armed as usual, the third tooth of the lower margin a little reduced.
Labium much longer than wide (19 : 16); basal excavation one-third the total length or rather longer; sides below straight and subparallel to middle, then straight and converging to angles in front ; front margin very gently convex laterally and indented at middle.
Legs long and slender; the posterior tarsi slender and nearly as long as tibia 4patella; all tarsi densely scopulate, the scopute clearly divided on posterior pairs by a narrow median setose band, on the anterior pairs the scopuke extend also upon the metatarsi entirely to the base and even upon the tibia?
distally.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XVII, fig.
9.
Total length, 21.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm.
; width, 7.6 mm.
Length of leg I, 32.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 10.8 mm.
; met., 7.8 mm.
I>ength of leg II, 28.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 21.7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 38.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 12.2 mm.
; met., 11.8 mm.
Male.
— Front pair of legs dark reddish brown to black, excepting tarsus and proximal end of femur, above which are lighter; other legs light brown.
Anterior half of median dorsal stripe of abdomen black and distinctly darker than posterior half.
Venter gray, immaculate.
Chelicerce brown wdth yellow pubescence.
Patella I and II armed in front and behind.
For structure of palpus see PI.
XVIII, fig.
1.
Total length, 11 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.
; wddth, 4.7 mm.
Length of leg I, 21.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.2 mm.
; met., 5.6 mm.
Length of leg II, 20.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 17.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 25.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.7 mm.
; met., 8.1 mm.
Syn.
— 1875.
Lycosa scutulata.
1875.
Lycosa .scutulata.
1890.
L^jcosa scutulata Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., XII, p. 563.
1890.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 427.
1892.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
PWla., 1892, p. 66.
-.
Lycosa scutulata Marx, Hentz, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Wash., II, p. 160.
1895.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, Vol.
Ill, p. 91.
•.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Ent.
News, IV, p. 205.
1897.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Wash., Vol.
IV, p. 189.
1898.
Lycosa scxdulata Hentz, Banks, Proc.
Col. Acad.
Sci., 3d ser., Zool., Vol.
I, p. 268. .
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., Vol.
II, pp.
329, 330, 346.
1900.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Emerton, Common Sp.
of U. S., p. 76. .
Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 553.
1904.
Lycosa scutulata Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 289.
Type Zoca^zon.— Alabama.
Known localities.
— Alabama, North Carolina!, Georgia!, Florida, Louisiana !, Mississippi, Texas, Connecticut, New York I, Pennsylvania, New Jersey.
District of Columbia, Ohio, Indiana!, lUinois, Iowa!, Kansas !.
Hentz remarks as follows concerning Lycosa scutulata after his original description: "This common and very distinct species attains a very large stature.
It is most commonly found wandering in quest of prey The cocoon is very large, spherical and whitish, containing from 150 to 200 eggs, which hatch before the cocoon is opened.
The yellow spots on the abdomen seem to be wanting in the young" {Sj).
U. S., p. 32).
lyoosa puJiotulata Hentz, 1842.
(J. Bost.
Soc.
N.
Hist., 4, p.
390.)
Cephalothorax light brown, with each side of the middle a blackishbrown stripe which runs forward over eyes of the corresponding side and reaches the front margin of the clypeus as a much narrower line, also on each side a very narrow marginal and a wider submarginal blackish line; the median light band is narrower than the dark bands enclosing it; between the eyes of the third and second row it is narrowed to a line but widens again above eyes of first row; the dark bands of cephalothorax are clothed with dark somewhat smoky-brown pubescence, the light regions covered with a grayish-brown pubescence about the eyes are longer.
Chelicerce black, clothed with short light yellowish pubescence and some mostly very long blackish bristles ; at the distal end within along the furrow a fringe of long 3^ellow or rusty yellow hairs.
Labium and endites dark reddish brown; light distally.
Sternum black, clothed with grayish-brown pubescence.
Coxce dark reddish brown.
Legs elsewhere brown; the distal ends of the tibiae and metatarsi of the last legs usually darker, legs otherwise without markings ; covered with a very stout pale pubescence and with longer straight blackish bristles which are denser than in scutulata; the longer bristles appear paler distally as in scutulata.
Tegument in general brown, blackish brown along a wide median band extending the entire length of the abdomen, the band widest in middle, covered by intermixed black and deep brown pubescence with longer black bristles; margin of middle black band smooth, not broken by indentations or enclosed lighter spots; tlie black pubescence more dense at borders of its median band, the brown over its middle; each side of middle band a grayish-brown stripe; exterior to gray stripes the sides are colored with brown and grayish brown intermingled in spots and streaks, the brown often solid at the anterolateral angles ; sides below and the venter gray with very small spots of black, the venter with a variable number of larger black spots, sometimes also with one or more continuous dark patches.
Epigynum dark reddish brown to black.
S-pinnereis brown.
Cephalothorax narrow, highest behind second row of eyes; sides rather weakly rounded, high, with the sides steep.
Face high, rather more than two-thirds as high as the chelicerae are long, the sides steep and but moderately convex.
Anterior row of etjes moderately strongly procurved, shorter than second row by about twice the diameter of an anterior eye; anterior median eyes their radius apart, farther from the slightly smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes scarcely their diameter from the front margin of the clypeus, much farther from the eyes of the second row; eyes of the second row less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row about two-thirds as large as those of the second ; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as cephalothorax.
Chelicerce armed as usual.
Legs long and moderately slender, the last tarsi slender but not proportionately long; all femora conspicuously flattened laterally, each of the two posterior ones on each side concavated beliind and bent conspicuously backward, the two anterior ones concavated in front side and bent forward ; anterior tibise and metatarsi armed beneath as usual, all tarsi densely scopulate beneath, the posterior ones clearly bisected by a narrow median setose band ; the anterior metatarsi also scopulate for most of the entire distance to their bases, but the posterior metatarsi not at all scopulate.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XVIII, fig.
2.
Total length, 16.4 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 7 mm.
; widths 5 mm.
Length of leg I, 20 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.4 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Length of leg II, 17.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 16.6 mm.
liength of leg IV, 22.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.5 mm.
; met., 6.6 mm.
Male.
— Chelicerce black, covered, but not denselj^, with black pubescence; fringe along furrow pale rufous.
Legs yellowish or pale brown, the joints beyond patella of anterior pairs darker, reddish brown; distal ends of tibia and metatarsus of leg IV darker blackish.
The hair of middle stripe of dorsum of abdomen, except black margins, is rufous or nearly so, the light stripes bounding it are made by goldenyellow hair.
Venter with a wide median black band, which is widest at its anterior end where it spreads out back of lung-slits.
Patella I and II armed both in front and behind.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XVIII, fig.
3.
Total length, 15 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 7.3 mm.
; width^ 5.5 mm.
Length of leg I, 23.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8.4 mm.
; met., 5 mm.
Length of leg II, 21.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 18.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 29 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 9 mm.
; met., 9 mm.
Syn.
— 1842.
Lijcosa punctulata Hentz, J. Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
p. 390.
1875.
Lijcosa punctulata Hentz, Spiders of U. S., p. 31, PI.
3, figs.
16, 17.
1885.
Lycosa punctulata, Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Ac, IV, p. 490.
1890.
Lychsa punctulata, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563.
Non.-Syn.
.
Lycosa punctulata Hentz, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1892.
Lycosa punctulata.
Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
.
Lycosa punctulata, Hentz, Fox, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 269. .
Lycosa punctulata, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Wash., II, p. 160.
1895.
Lj/cosa punctulata, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 3, p. 91.
1900.
Lycosa punctulata.
Banks, Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 538.
1902.
Lycosa punctulata, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 552.
1904.
Lycosa punctulata, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 288.
Type location.
— Pennsylvania.
Knownlocalities.
— Pennsylvania, North Carolina !, Georgia !, Alabama, Florida, Louisiana!, Mississippi!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island !, Indiana !, Ohio.
Lyoosa frondicola Emerton, 1885.
(Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 484, PI.
46, figs.
3 to 3b.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax dark brown above, lighter toward margin; a median light brown band which is widest just behind the eye area, where it is wider than the third row; from there it very gradually narrows caudally and anteriorly passes broadly between the eyes of the third row to those of the second; the median band in life densely clothed with light gray pubescence; sides of cephalothorax clothed with mixed black and gray pubescence, the gray predoininating, increasing in abundance from above below and finally forming a narrow marginal light gray stripe in which the hair is unmixed with any black.
Chelicerce black, clothed over basal portion with light brown pubescence, distally with black.
Labium and endites dark reddish or blackish brown, lighter at tips.
Sternum and coxce of legs beneath dark reddish-brown to black, the coxae somewhat paler basally; clothed with black hair.
Legs brown or reddish brown with some dark annulations on the femora, which may be indistinct and which are cormnonly incomplete above and below; the patella;, tibiae and metatarsi of the posterior pairs of legs also normally annulate with dark, the patellae showing one ring, the tibiae two and the metatarsi three; the anterior legs not marked beyond the femora; legs densely clothed with gray pubescence, longer black hairs sparse.
Abdomen above grayish brown, the pubescence being mixed gray and brown, the gray sometimes arranged over entire dorsum in minute spots and streaks; black pubescence over two angular spots close together in front of middle, these spots forming the angular lateral portion of an elsewhere faint basal lanceolate outline which bifurcates at its posterior end; a number of less distinct dark transverse chevron-lines behind; a black band or spot crossing over each antero-lateral angle caudally, with pubescence of same color, this band dissolving in the gray and brown pubescence behind; sides of abdomen light brown, densely covered with gray and brown puliescence, these sometimes vmiformly mingled but more commonly intermixed in numerous small spots and streaks; venter with a wide median band of black back of spinnerets, the edges of which are uneven, this band frequently occupying the entire venter; at times the dark band is entirely absent.
Epigijmim reddish brown.
Spinnerets brown.
Face low a,nd wide, in height less than half the length of the chelicerae, sides rounded and strongly slanting.
Dorsal Une of cephalothorax highest between third eye row and dorsal groove, being convex between eyes and the posterior declivity.
Anterior row of eyes but slightly procurved, nearly or quite as wide as the second; anterior median eyes their radius apart, closer to the somewhat smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes one and one-half times their diameter from the front margin of clypeus, less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row considerably less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row more than twice as far from each other as from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes a little more than one-sixth as long as the cephalothorax.
Chelicerce massive; margins of furrow armed as usual.
Labium a little longer than wide (16 :15); basal excavation as usual; attenuated anteriorly, the sides below well rounded convexly, straight above; front margin incurved or concave for its entire length.
Legs strong, moderately slender distally; tibia + patella IV evidently shorter than the cephalothorax, the metatarsus a little longer than or nearly of the same length as the width of the cephalothorax; tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate beneath, tarsi III and IV as usual ; spines of anterior tibiae as usual; patella II armed anteriorly.
Side ridges and furrows of the epigynum are of the usual form; the guide is of the inversely T-shaped form, the septal piece is enlarged or widened at its middle, being thus more or less fusiform, being narrow adjacent to the transverse arms; transverse piece as long as or a little longer than the median, its arms passing well out laterally behind the lateral tubercles and being scarcely confined at the ends ; guide plates along front of tran verse arms narrow, even more so upon posterior end of septum where they fade out (PI.
XVIII, fig.
4).
Total length, 13 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6.5 mm.
; width, 4.7 mm.
Length of leg I, 14.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.3 ram.
; met., 3.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 13.9 mm.
I^ength of leg III, 12.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 18.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.8 mm.
; met., 5 mm, Male.
— Cephalothorax in color nearly as in the female.
Legs lighter.
Abdomen with the black bands over the antero-lateral angles more distinctly continuing caudally as a dark band along sides of dorsum, this band behind frequently breaking up into oblique lines and spots; abdomen otherwise as in the female.
Patella I and II armed both in front and behind.
Apical portion of tarsus of palpus evidently shorter than the bulb, acute; auricle large and broad, the terminal part of embolus lying in it clearly exposed ; tenaculum at base horizontal and rather stout, then bent forward rather abruptly and becoming very slender.
(PI.
XVIII, fig.
5.)
Total length, 10 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm.
; width, 4 mm.
Length of leg I, 14.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.9 mm.
; met., 3.2 mm.
Length of leg II, 12.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 11.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 15.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat.,5 mm.
; met., 4.8 mm.
Syn.— 1877.
Tarentula modesfa Thorell, Bull.
U. S. G. S.
Terr., 3, No.
2, p. 520 (name preoccupied by modesta Keys.).
1885.
Lycosa nigroventris Emerton, Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 488, PI.
47, figs.
5 to 5b.
1890.
Tarentula pudens Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. .
Lycosa frondicola, Marx, ibid., p. 561. .
Lycosa frondicola, Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 42, p. 426.
1892.
Ltjcosa frondicola, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 160.
— — -.
Lycosa frondicola, Fox, op.
cit., p. 269. .
Lycosa frondicola, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 64.
1894.
Lycosa modesta, Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 2, p. 50.
1895.
Lycosa modesta.
Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Ac.
Sci., 8, p. 429. .
Lycosa frondicola.
Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, 3, p. 91.
1902.
Lycosa frondicola, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 501, PL 30, figs.
28, 29.
1904.
Trochosa frondicola, Montgomery, ibid., p. 306.
Type locality.
— Massachusetts.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts!, New Hampshire!, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia!, Ohio, Indiana, lUinois, Iowa!, Kansas!, Montana!, Utah!, Colorado!, Arizona!.
From a study of specimens from various places in the West, I am convinced that the species described by Thorell from Colorado as Tarentula modesta is the same as the Eastern L. frondicola, and Thorell's name would have to be used except that it is preoccupied by Keyserling's species.
In 1890 Marx proposed the name pudens to take the place of modesta; but as the species had been described by Emerton in 1885 as frondicola, the latter name must stand.
A study of the male specimen upon which L. nigroventris was based convinces me that it is the same as frondicola.
L. frondicola is a widely distributed species, conmion especially in the central, northern and mountainous parts of the United States.
It is found most frequently in and at the edges of woods, among fallen leaves and sticks.
Specimens from the dryer parts of the West, as with various other species, show a tendency to lose the dark coloration, especially that of the venter.
Some specimens have the venter entirely pale.
Lycosa pratensis Emerton, 1885.
(Trans.
Conn.
Acad., VI, p. 483, PI.
XLVI, figs.
4, 4a, 4b.)
Female.
— A wide median light band, widest between third eye row and dorsal groove, and from there narrowing backward to end of cephalothorax, commonly constricted or indented at groove, also narrowing and passing forward between eyes of third row and reaching those of second row.
Tegument of middle band light reddish brow^n clothed with yellowish or brownish-gray pubescence, usually two dark longitudinal lines in wide part in front of dorsal groove; on each side, at a distance above margin greater than its own width, a narrow light band colored hke the median one; elsewhere the tegument deep brown, clothed mostly with dark to blackish-brown pubescence, with grayish intermixed.
Chelicene dark reddish brown with grayish-brown pubescence.
Labium and endites dark brown, inclined to be lighter at tips.
Sternum reddish brown, sparsely clothed with a few short hairs of light color and more numerous long bristles of black.
Coxce of legs beneath brown, grayish-yellow pubescence much more abundant than on sternum.
Legs brown, darker distall}^, at least femora with rather faint darker rings, which on the two anterior pairs are most distinct on the meso-caudal aspect and on the two posterior pairs on the meso-cephalic aspect; clothed with shorter grayish-yellow pubescence and longer blackish or blackish-brown hair.
Abdomen in general color reddish brown, lighter beneath; above with a complicated pattern of black lines, in part as follows : at base a lanceolate outline, giving off on each side near apical third a line running caudo-laterally to dark area at sides, its tip at middle touching apex of a chevron-mark which is followed caudally by a number of similar marks; each chevron-mark commonly double or paired, i.e., consisting of two parallel chevrons separated by a light line, except sometimes at ends; on each side of chevrons irregular darker spots and blotches.
The tegument of the sides with spots of black, but that of venter unmarked.
The pubescence of the abdomen is yellowish-gray and brown in life, or in dry specimens, the pubescence largely concealing the complicated markings of the tegument and so arranged as to produce above two rows of light spots more or less connected by transverse light lines.
Sides with light and dark pubescence, more or less in streaks and spots, but venter without markings.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum dark reddish brown.
Face low, less than half the length of the chelicera; (1 : 2.4), sides convex, widely slanting, about as wide at base as length of chelicerae, high and narrow; in profile dorsal line rather strongly convex.
Anterior part of head rounded, the space between third and second rows of eyes sloping rather strongly; the first row of eyes projecting forward so as to be seen clearly from above.
Front row of eyes straight or slightly recurved, slightly longer than the second ; anterior median eyes their radius apart, closer to the but little smaller side eyes; anterior lateral eyes about their diameter from the front margin of clypeus, closer to eyes of second row; eyes of second row not more than two-thirds their diameter apart; eyes of third row scarcely smaller than of second, their diameter from latter, more than twice as far from each other; quadrangle of posterior eyes about onefifth as long as the cephalothorax.
Lower margin of furrow of the chelicera armed with three equidistant conical teeth, these equal in size, the third no smaller than the first.
The upper margin with three teeth, the middle, as usual, much largest, the first and third about equal, both usually contiguous with base of second, or the third slightly removed.
Legs short and moderately slender; tibia + patella of fourth legs shorter than the cephalothorax; metatarsus of fourth legs much shorter than tibia + patella; anterior tarsi slightly curved, others straight; two anterior pair of femora slightly bent forward, last pair slightly bent backward; first and second tarsi scopulate; third and fourth tarsi not truly scopulate, subdensely setulose; tibiae and metatarsi of first and second legs armed beneath as usual, patella of these legs imarmed.
Epigynum as Rgured (PI.
XXI, fig.
3).
Total length, 13 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.1 mm.
; width, 3.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.9 mm.
; tib.
-f pat., 4.1 nmi.
; met., 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 14 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.8 mm.
; met., 3.3 mm.
Syn.
— 1890.
Lycosa pratensis, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12.
1892.
Lycosa pratensis, Banks, Proc.
Phil.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., 44, p. 64.
1894.
Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., IX, p. 422, PI.
Ill, fig.
IV.
1895.
Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, III, p. 91.
1902.
Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S., p. 69, figs.
168, 169, 170.
1904.
Trochosa pratensis, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 303.
Type locality.
— Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire!, New York!, Long Island!, Canada (mountains near Lagan, Lake of Woods, Gaspe, Anticosti, Byron I., Port Hawkesbury).
According to Emerton, in New England "this is the most common species, under stones and under leaves in winter."
Also: "This does not seem to be a very active spider, and is commonly found under stones."
Its habits in New York I have found similar.
Lycosa kochii (Keyserling), 1876.
(Sub Tarentula, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 636, PI.
7, fig.
18.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a pale stripe as wide as third eye row, becoming abruptly a little narrower near posterior end of pars cephalica and then gradually narrowing posteriorly.
Tegument of median stripe reddish brown, but quadrangle of posterior eyes often black; median stripe clothed with gray-brown pubescence.
Sides of cephalothorax darker above and becoming lighter below; clothed with graybrown pubescence, like that of dorsal stripe, mixed with dark blackish pubescence, the brown hair becoming gradually more abundant from above below but forming no distinct marginal bands.
Chelicercc dark red -brown with short light brown pubescence basally and darker longer hairs on distal part.
Endites reddish brown, light at tips.
Labium darker, blackish, also lighter distally.
Sternum dark brown, marked by a faint paler median line, clothed with brownish-gray pubescence and longer black bristles.
Coxce of legs beneath a little lighter than sternum.
Legs clear brown, entirely unmarked or, more rarely, with indistinct annular markings on femora.
Palpi similarly colored.
Abdomen with brown-gray, brown and black hair; venter pale, immaculate; sides above finely streaked and spotted with the darker puljescence among the paler.
Anterior face of abdomen with a black transverse band extending over each antero-lateral angle.
At base a lanceolate outline, sometimes absent, which behind gives off a number of lines on each caudo-laterally, and is followed behind by a series of chevronformed lines; in most on each side of dorsum a row of dark angular marks in which the ends of the chevron-lines terminate.
Spinnerets brown, densely pubescent.
Epigynwn dark reddish brown.
Cephalothorax highest at posterior eyes, moderately low behind, a little concavated at dorsal groove.
Face in height less than half the length -of the chelicerse, its sides convex and widely slanting.
Anterior row of eyes as long as second, gently procurved; anterior median eyes more than their radius apart, about half as far from the smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes about their diameter from front margin of clypeus, farther from eyes of second row.
Eyes of second row separated by three-fourths their diameter or a little more.
.
Eyes of the third row once and a half again as far from each other as from the eyes of the second row.
Quadrangle of posterior eyes about one-fifth the length of the cephalotliorax.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce armed with two equal stout teeth, the upper margin with three as usual.
Labium as wide as long; basal excavation less than one-third the total length (1 : 3.6) ; rather strongly attenuated in front with sides above straight or slightly concave below angles; anterior margin indented at middle but sides a little convex.
Tibia -|patella of fourth legs shorter than the cephalothorax; tarsi I and II and metatarsi of same legs except at base scopiilate; tarsi of third and fourth legs clothed beneath with bristles.
Patellae of first and second legs unarmed .
Epigynum as figured (PI.
XXI, fig.
5).
Total length, 11.4 mm.
; length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.
; width, 3.4 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.9 mm.
; met., 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 14.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.8 mm.
; met., 4 mm, Male.
— Colored like female but lighter; femora of legs lighter and clearer brown, tibia and more distal joints darker, reddish brown.
Patella of second legs with a spine in front.
Tibia and patella of palpus of same length and thickness, together about equalling the length of the tarsus.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XXI, fig.
4.
Total length, 9.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 mm.
; width, 3.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.9 mm.
; met., 2.4 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 11 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.9 mm.
; met., 2.6 mm.
Type locality.
— "North America."
Knoini localities.
— Colorado!, Utah!, Oregon, Arizona!, California!.
Lycosa gulosa Walckenaer, 1837.
(Ins.
Apt., 1, p.
33S.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax dark reddish brown crossed by blackish radiating lines ; a wide median light stripe which is constricted between thoracic groove and third eye row and again behind the groove, widest in front of the first constriction, extending to the second eye row in front; the median light brown band clothed with light gray pubescence; on each side a supramarginal irregular edged band of same color and pubescence as the median one; cephalothorax except on light stripes clothed with dark brown pubescence.
Chelicerce black, paler distally, clothed for most of length with yellowish pubescence, distally with longer dark brown hairs ; the fringe along furrow rust colored.
Labium and endites deep brown, paler at tips.
Sternum deep reddish brown or, more rarely, black, clothed with short grayish-brown and longer dark brown pubescence.
Coxae of legs beneath brown to reddishbrown, lighter than sternum.
Legs reddish brown, all joints except the tarsi with black annulations which are usually more distinct proximally and deeper above on femora than ventrally; clothed with brown hair which is also the color of the scopulae.
Abdomen above grayish-brown, the pubescence consisting of gray and brown intermixed; at base a dark, deeper margined, sublanceolate stripe ending obtusely or bifurcating at the middle, but this basal mark frequently inconspicuous and sometimes absent; posterior portion of dorsum rarely with some dark chevron-shaped cross-lines; a black spot over each antero-lateral angle which is usually followed caudad by a row of dark angular spots and marks along the sides ; sides and venter yellowish or grayish brown, the pubescence, as on dorsum, being light and dark often intermixed in fine spots and streaks; the tegument of venter often showing two pairs of dark lines or stripes converging toward the spinnerets; entire animal darkening with age, the venter then showing usually a broad dark brown to black band over its length from genital furrow to the spinnerets.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum dark reddish-brown to black.
Face about half as high as the length of the chelicera?, sides rounded and slanting; width at base less than the length of the chelicerffi.
Dorsal line of cephalothorax highest at third eye row, somewhat concavated at median furrow.
Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second (by twice the diameter of a lateral eye or more), moderately procurved; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart; anterior lateral eyes about two-thirds as large as the median, a little less than their diameter from eyes of second row and a little more than their diameter from front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row large, about three-fifths their diameter apart; eyes of third row but little smaller than those of secona (ad.
5:6), more than twice as far from each other as from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes between one-fifth and one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax.
Chelicerce with furrows armed as usual.
Labium nearly as wide as long, not much attenuated; front margin concavated.
Legs with tibia + patella IV of same length as cephalothorax or a very little longer; metatarsus IV longer than the cephalothorax is wide; anterior tibige and patella armed as usual; tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate; tarsi III and IV as usual.
Epigynum broadly ovate with posterior end widely truncate; side ridges relatively very thick; septal piece of guide in front of enlarged posterior end with sides parallel or nearly so, the femur at its side narrow and not much differing in width from anterior end back to the caudal enlargement of guide (PI.
XXI, fig.
7).
Total length, 14 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 7.7 mm.
; width, 6 mm.
Length of leg I, 19.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.4 mm.
; met., 4.1. mm.
Length of leg II, 19.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 18.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 24.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.8 mm.
; met., 6.7 mm.
Male.
— Colored nearly as in the female.
Legs dark brown or blackish distally, showing mostly no rings or marks except on femora.
Palpi reddish yellow with ends of joints dark and some dark marks on femora.
Patella of palpus as long as the tibia, these two joints together of about the same length as the tarsus; terminal portion of palpus a little shorter than the bulb.
Embolus bending outward and somewhat distally from base, resting upon the lectus only across the auricle, the greater part of its length being supported only by its much elongated basal flap (PI.
XXI, fig.
6).
Total length, 11.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.5 mm.
; width, 4.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 19.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.1 mm.
; met., 4.6 mm.
Length of leg II.
18.5 mm.
Length of leg III, 17.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 22.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7 mm.
; met., 6.7 mm.
gyn._1876.
Tarentula pulchra Keyserling, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 628, pi.
7, figs.
13, 14.
^ .
1 o ^ 1885.
Lycosa kochii Emerton (nee Keyserling), Trans.
Conn. Acad, bci., 6, p. 485, PI.
46. figs.
6 to 6c.
1890.
Lycosa kochii Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 426.
1892.
Lycosa kochii Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2. p. 160. .
Lycosa kochii Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 64.
1902.
Lycosa kochii Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S., p. 74, figs.
179, 180.
Lycosa purcelli Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 566, PI.
30, figs.
30, 31.
1904.
Lycosa pulchra (Keys.
"),Chamberhn, Canad.
Ent., p. 14/ .
■ .
Lycosa euepigynata, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 279, .
Lycosa insopita, Montgomery, ibid., p. 280, PI.
XVIII, figs.
3, 4. .
Trochosa purcelli, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 305.
Ty2:)e localitij.— "'North America."
Known localities.
^Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island !, NewHampshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, District of Columbia!, Virginia North Carolina!, Alabama!, Mississippi!, Texas!, Kansas!, Indiana, Utah!
Types in collection of Dr. Koch.
A strongly marked and widely distributed species which, as might be expected, is subject to some variations in size and coloration.
The epigynum and the peculiar palpus of the male are constant in essential features and at once reveal the species beneath more superficial differences.
The pattern of the markings on the legs, the cephalothorax and of the dorsum of abdomen remain pretty nearly the same alwa3's except as to depth and distinctness of the colors.
The venter of the abdomen becomes dark or even black with age, the entire animal also then taking on a darker color.
Lycosa modesta (Keyserling), 1876.
(Sub Tarentula, Verh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, p. 626, PI.
VIT, f5gs.
11, 12.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a light median band as wide as space between eyes of third row; sides of median band nearly straight or slightly curved convexly, converging gradually caudally, in front reaching eyes of second row but there commonly darker; median band with tegument light reddish brown, darker between eyes, clothed with browngray pubescence; on each side a narrow marginal and a narrow supramarginal line of gray pubescence like that upon middle band, the two marginal hues often indistinctly separated , Sides of cephalothorax deep brown or nearly black, clothed with mixed dark brown and brownishgray pubescence, the gray arranged in radiating streaks, more abundant below.
CheHcerce dark red-brown, lighter distally, clothed with dark brown hairs except below and along furrow, where they are lighter and clearer.
Labium and endites dark brown, light at tips.
Sternum shining reddish black or deep brown, sparsely provided with dark hairs about borders.
Coxce beneath dark brown, paler at bases.
Legs brown, darker distally, especially the tibia and metatarsus, the tai'sus being lighter on anterior pairs; annuli above, which are more obscure beneath, clothed with shorter gray and more sparse longer and stiffer hairs.
Scopulse grizzly brown.
Abdomen having the tegument brown mottled with light and dark; a black lanceolate outline at base which on each side posteriorly gives off a number of lines caudolaterally, the basal mark sometimes absent; lanceolate mark followed behind by a series of black transverse chevron-lines; in most on each side of the dorsum behind a row of white spots in which the ends of the dark chevron-lines terminate, these spots formed of bunches of white hair; a black mark over each antero-lateral angle; sides brown with darker mottlings and streaks and spots of gray or whitish hair.
Venter black with some light spots at sides.
Pubescence of abdomen is light gray or white and a darker color, dark smoky gray to black, the latter found unmixed on venter, the former predominating above.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum reddish brown and figured.
Cephalothorax moderately high and steep sided, relatively wide in front.
In profile line of dorsum highest behind third eye row, concavated at front of dorsal furrow.
Face low, in height hardly half the length of the chelicerae.
Face at base about wide as length of chelicerse, sides more than usually widely slanting, more convex below.
Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, procurved; anterior median about their radius apart, twice as large in diameter as the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes nearly their diameter from the front margin of the elypeus, more than their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior median eyes less than half their diameter from eyes of second row and nearly as close to front margin of elypeus ; eyes of second row scarcely more than half their diameter apart, two-thirds their diameter from eyes of third row which are two-thirds or a little more as large; eyes of third row twice as far from each other as from eyes of second row.
Cephalothorax 5.5 times as long as the quadrangle of posterior eyes.
Legs short, the fourth pair less than three times the length of the cephalothorax; tibia -fpatella IV shorter than the cephalothorax; metatarsus IV shorter than tibia + patella ; tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate, the scopulse not dense; tarsi III and IV with very thin scopulse at sides, the ventral surface mostly occupied by a broad band of long setse; tibia + metatarsus I and II armed as usual beneath; patella I and II unarmed.
Total length, 11.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.9 mm.
; width, 3.
7. mm.
Length of leg, I, 9.8 mm.
; tib.
-|pat., 3.7 mm.
; met., 1.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.6 mm.
; tib.
-h pat., 4 mm.
; met., 3.5 mm.
Male.
— Cephalothorax relatively narrower in front than in female and more depressed.
Patella I and II unarmed.
Tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax.
Patella as long as tibia, the latter thick distally.
Femur laterally compressed above with 1,1,3 spines.
Total length, 8.4 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.6 mm.
; width, 3.4 mm.
Length of leg I, 11.9 mm.
; tib.
4pat., 4.3 mm.
; met., 2.7 mm.
Ijength of leg II, 10.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 10 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13.4 mm.
; tib.
-!pat., 4.4 mm.
; met., 2.7 mm.
18 Syn.— 1890.
Tarcntula modesta, Marx, P. U. S. N. M., p. 564.
1902.
Lycosa sepulchralis Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 543, PI.
XXIX, fig.
7.
1903.
Lycosa sepulchralis Montgomery, ibid., p. 645, PI.
29, fig.
7.
1904.
Trochosa sepulchralis, Montgomery, ibid., p. 307.
Type locality.
— Maryland (Baltimore).
Habitat.
— Maryland, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania!, Texas!.
Lycosa pictilis Emerton, 1885.
(Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 485, PI.
46, figs.
5 to 5b.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a median grayish band (of pubescence) which, beginning at the second eye row, passes between the eyes of third row and then abruptly bulges on each side, being much wider than eye area midway between eyes and dorsal groove, then narrowing to dorsal groove where it is about same width as eye area; parallel sided to posterior declivity and then narrowing down the declivity; the median band, while chiefly of gray hair, has intermixed brown hair which is more abundant anteriorly between eyes; in wide area back of eyes an intramarginal line on each side is formed of brown hair, these lines being parallel to the sides and merging together in the brown between the eyes.
Sides of cephalothorax chocolate brown, clothed with brown pubescence; a narrow marginal and a similar supramarginal line of grayish hair on each side.
Chelicerce reddish black.
Labium with gray pubescence.
Sternum blackish brown.. Coxce of legs beneath paler brown like other joints of legs.
Legs dark brown; femora lighter beneath on basal half, apically on most femora two interrupted light rings and a few hght, transverse marks above elsewhere.
Tibia with several light rings, which on the anterior pair may be confluent beneath; other joints unmarked.
Abdomen beneath at sides dusky brown, having a ]:)lackish-brown tegument covered with brown hair, rather darker on sides above; a black spot on each anterolateral angle which encloses a light spot, the latter nearly breaking through lower margin of spot; mesally from the black spot is a large light spot on each side; along the inner posterior margin of each of these orange spots being a short oblique black line, the two lines not meeting in the middle; posteriorly is a series of median black chevron-marks, the first divided or nearly so at middle; at the outer end of each of the chevrons is a light spot enclosed by black, the light spots thus forming a lateral series on each side; in front of each half of each chevron is a light colored spot; these spots in front of the posterior chevrons confluent.
The series of light spots on each side in life covered with grayish or gray pubescence; the large light spots in front covered with orange-colored or with rusty-brown hair and connected at middle with gray hair; light transverse marks in front of posterior chevrons covered with gray hair; middle of dorsum in front covered with mostly gray and with fewer brown hairs.
Epigynum and spinnerets black-brown.
Legs over the light spots with partly gray pubescence ; pubescence elsewhere brown.
Median dorsal line of cephalothorax straight, not depressed at dorsal furrow.
Sides of face convex and widely slanting.
Anterior row of eyes procurved, but little shorter than the second row; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or a little farther from front margin of the clypeus, a little farther from eyes of second row; anterior median eyes less than their diameter apart (four-sevenths), closer to the smaller lateral eyes (1 : 1.7); eyes of second row fully their diameter apart; anterior median eyes about their diameter from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, about one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XIX, fig.
8.
Total length, 11.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm.
; width, 3.6 mm.
Length of leg I, 13.1 mm.
; tib.
-|pat., 4 mm.
; met., 2.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 11 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.5 nun.
Length of leg IV, 14.9 mm.
; tib.
4pat., 4.6 mm.
; met., 4.1 mm.
Male.
— Coloration of cephalothorax and legs nearly as in female.
Abdomen with nearly same markings but black spot over front angles circular, not enclosing a light spot ; venter with gray pubescence ; gray pubescence of dorsum much more abundant than in female, the rusty colored pubescence largely replaced by it.
Tarsus of palpus some (11 : 13) shorter than the tibia + patella; patella and tibia of about same thickness, the former slightly longer; tibia but slightly thickened distally; tarsus clearly wider than tibia (5:4).
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XIX, fig.
6.
Total length, 9.3 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.3 mm.
; width, 3.9 mm.
Length of leg I, 13.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.5 mm.
; met., 3.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 12.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 12.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 16.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 5 mm.
; met., 4.7 mm.
Syn.
— Lycosa pictilis, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 287, PI.
XVIII, figs.
7, 8.
Locality.
— New Hampshire !.
"This very distinct species is abundant among the moss and low slirubs on the upper part of Mt, Washington, New Hampshire, and the neighboring mountains," The descriptions above are based upon the type specimens.
Lyoosa fumosa Emerton, 1894.
(Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 421, PI.
3, figs.
1, la.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax nearly black, of a reddish tinge.
Chelicerce the same color as cephalothorax.
Labium and endites lighter in color than cephalothorax, pale distally.
Sternum similar to cephalothorax but lighter.
Coxm of legs beneath brown, clearly paler than sternum.
Legs a little lighter and more reddish than cephalothorax, the femora slightly darker than other joints, all joints unmarked or the femora with a few faint light spots.
Palpi like legs.
Cephalothorax, sternum and legs clothed with gray-brown pubescence, being probably bleached in the alcohol.
Ahdomen entirely black, slightly, paler beneath especially in front of lung-slits, clothed with brown pubescence; pubescence of entire bod 3^ and legs rather dense.
Cephalothorax comparatively low, angularly depressed in profile at dorsal groove.
Face one-half as high as the length of the chelicerje.
Anterior row of eyes of the same length as the second or very nearly so, nearly straight, the center of lateral eyes being but slightly lower; anterior median eyes slightly smaller than the lateral ; the tubercles of the lateral eyes increase their apparent size: anterior median eyes their full diameter apart, same distance from the lateral eyes, more than their diameter f i-om eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes more than their diameter from eyes of second row (nearly one and one-third), closer, but little more than diameter, from front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row not fully their diameter apart; eyes of third row three-fourths as large as those of second; quadrangle of posterior eyes a little wider in front than long (11.5 : 10) unusually wide behind, being there nearly twice as wide as long (19 : 10), the pars cephalica being wider than usual and the third eyes set well out laterally; the quadrangle of posterior eyes between one-fifth and one-sixth as long as the cephalothorax (about 1 : 5.6).
Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three stout teeth, the third being a little stouter than the others; the first two with posterior face more curved than the anterior and so appearing bent forward; upper margin with three teeth, the first minute, the middle stout and acute as usual, the third as long as median but more slender.
Legs with the anterior tibise armed beneath with three pair of spines, these short as usual, the apical pair reduced; anterior patella armed behind ; tibiae II armed in front and behind ; tibia + patella IV a little longer than cephalothorax, shorter than tibia + patella I.
Total length, 16 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 7 mm.
; width, 5.8 mm.
For structure of epigijnum see PI.
XIX, fig.
2.
Length of leg I, 2L6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8.2 mm.
; met., 5 nun.
Length of leg II, 21.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 18.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 23.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8 mm.
; met., 7 mm.
Male.
— Cephalothorax, chelicerw and sternum blackish.
Labium, endites and cozce of legs beneath dark brown, as in female.
Pubescence throughout brown, dense.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XIX, fig.
3.
Total length, 11 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.
; width, 5 mm.
Length of leg I, 23.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 8 mm.
; met., 6.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 2.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 21.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 24.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.7 mm.
; met., 7.7 mm.
Locality.
— Canada !.
The description above was taken from the types.
Lycosa beanii Emerton, 1894.
(Tr.
Conn. Aoad.
Sci., 19, p. 421, PI.
3, figs.
2 to 2b.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax and eye region blackish brown; back of eyes a lighter reddish brown median stripe as wide as the eye area ; the median stripe narrowing distinctly to posterior declivity, constricted in front of dorsal groove, widening out again at posterior margin.
No light colored lateral stripes.
Chelicerce blackish or blackish brown.
Labium and endites reddish brown.
Sternum deep brown, faintly paler along middle.
Coxa of legs beneath distinctly lighter than sternum, brown.
Legs brown, paler than sides of cephalothorax, entirely unmarked below but femora above and on sides, especially on posterior pairs, with rather indistinct closely arranged dark and light transverse markings.
Abdomen brown down middle, blackish brown across front declivity and in a band passing over each antero-lateral angle and down the side of dorsum.
A dark basal lanceolate mark evident reaching the middle of dorsum behind.
Posteriorly a series of dark angular bars crossing from side to side, leaving light colored chevrons between, farther forward, at and just behind the middle, the sides of the dark lateral bands simply dentate, the teeth not connected across middle.
Sides becoming lighter from above below, the lower portion and the venter rather light brown, the venter appearing to have been somewhat darker down its middle behind lung-slits in life.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum dark reddish brown.
Cephalothorax highest as usual at third eye only slightly descending posteriorly ; the dorsal line nearly horizontal, a little depressed at dorsal groove.
Face with sides sloping moderately, in height about half the length of the chelicerse.
Anterior row of eyes clearly shorter than the second, procurved; diameter of anterior median eyes is to diameter of eye of second row as 1 : 2.2 ; anterior lateral eyes once and a half their diameter from margin of clypeus, a little closer to eyes of second row; anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, and one-half their diameter apart, scarcely closer to lateral eyes (which are scarcely smaller) ; eyes of second row a little more than three-fourths their diameter apart; posterior quadrangle of same length and breadth, wider behind than in front in ratio of nearly 9.25 : 7, and about onefifth as long as cephalothorax.
Lower margin of the furi-ow of the chelicerce with two stout and equal teeth; upper margin of the furrow with three teeth, the first of these is low but wide and bluntly rounded, the second as usual much largest, conical and acute, the third of intermediate size, shaped like the second.
Tarsi of legs not curved, all straight; first two pairs of femora bent forward ; third femora nearly straight, scarcely bent backward ; fourth femora a little bent backward.
Scopulx distributed about as usual but rather sparse, divided by setose band on all tarsi !.
Epigynum 1 mm.
wide and about same length {i.e., shorter than any of coxae, the third of which is 1.6 mm.
long) (PI.
XIX, fig.
5).
Total length, 12 mm.
I^ength of cephalothorax, 5.3 mm.
; width, 3.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 11.6 mm.
; tib.
-Ipat., 6.4 mm.
; met., 2.4 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 14.2 mm.
; tib.
-|pat., 4.2 mm.
; met., 4.2 mm.
Male.
— Coloration very nearly the same as in female.
Legs not at all marked, the first and second femora darker than posterior ones, first tibia also darker.
Palpi darker than in the female, the tarsi a little darker than other joints.
Irmer margins of dark lateral bands of dorsum dentate and serrate, but not with any connecting angular or chevron-shaped marks across middle.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XIX, fig.
4.
Total length, 8.S mm.
Ijength of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.
; width, 3.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.7 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.6 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 3.6 mm.
Locality.
— Canada !.
The descriptions above are from the types.
Lycosa albohastata Emerton, 1894.
(Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 423, PI.
3, figs.
3 to 36.)
Male.
— Cephalothorax with a wide median band of reddish-brown color extending to clj^peus anteriorly; in front this band is as wide as the clypeus and wider than the eye area, narrowing gradually and constantly backward to a point at posterior margin, the sides nearly straight ; this band appears to have been clothed in life with light gray pubescence.
Sides of cephalothorax dark brown, i)resenting a reddishbrown background covered with radiating blackish lines which are more or less confluent above and below.
Chelicene reddish brown.
Labium and endites brown, paler distally.
Sternum black or very nearly so.
Coxaz beneath brown.
Legs brown of orange hue; all joints except tarsi with black annuli, these annuli incomplete beneath except on femora where they are most distinct.
Abdomen with a light basal mark, the sides of which are nearly parallel to its middle, then narrowed to a truncate point at middle of abdomen; this basal mark is densely clothed with Avhite hairs and is margined at sides and behind by black, mostly broken into irregularly elongated spots, from the sides of this black extend somewhat broken lines of black more or less obliquely outward and backward, the last two lines extending froni the angles of the truncate apex of basal mark; behind in the middle is a series of transverse black lines, and along each side a number of black dots; on each side of dorsum behind a row of light spots clothed with whitish hairs; the background of abdomen above orange-brown; sides of abdomen orange-brown mottled with numerous irregular black dots and marks; venter with clear orange-brown, darkened in front of lung-slits and along a narrow border laterally and posteriorly.
Palpi \\\X]\ the femora black, not distinctly ringed, the patella and tibia orange, the tarsus darker, blackish.
Pubescence on entire body except where stated otherwise orange-brown.
Face as compared with chelicerie low and relatively wide, the length of the chelicerse being about two and one-half times as great as the height of the face; sides sloping and rounded as usual.
Anterior row of eyes slightly procurved, nearly as long as the second; anterior median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart; anterior lateral eyes threefourths as large as the median, closer to the median than the latter are to each other (2 : 3) ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus and the same distance from eyes of second row; anterior median eyes scarcely more than one-half their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row slightly more than twice as large in diameter as the anterior median eyes (9 : 4) ; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long; wider behind than in front in ratio of 6.3 : 4.6; between one-fourth and one-fifth as long as cephalothorax.
Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three teeth which are stout and conical, the third a little reduced ; upper mai'gin w ith three teeth as usual, the first minute.
Labium of usual shape, slightly curved for entire width.
Legs with tibia -tpatella IV of same length as the cephalothorax; metatarsus distinctly longer than the width of the cephalothorax; both the posterior and the anterior tarsi with the scopuljB divided by a median setose band, the anterior metatarsi with only sparse scopular hairs.
Tibia of -palpus of same length as patella and of same thickness proximally, the tibia widening moderately distally; tibia and patella together a little longer than the tarsus.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XIX, fig.
1.
Total length, 6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.2 mm.
; tib.
4pat., 2.8 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 7.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 7.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 9.6 mm.
; tib.
-Ipat., 3 mm.
; met., 2.7 mm.
Female.
— Coloration of the female is nearly same throughout as male.
Eye arrangement and general structure as for the male.
Legs with tibia + patella shorter than the length of the cephalothorax; metatarsus IV very little longer than cephalothorax is wide.
The epigynum of specimen studied (type) is not entirely adult.
Total length, 7.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.
; width, 2.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 8 mm.
; tib.
-f pat., 2.9 mm.
; met., 1.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 7.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 11.1 mm.
; tib.
-tpat., 3.2 mm.
; met., 2.9 mm.
Locality.
— Laggan, Canada!.
The description above was taken from the types.
Two males from the valley near I^aggan and young females from the neighboring mountains 6,000 to 7,000 feet high.
Lycosa quinaria Emerton, 1894.
(Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 9, p. 422, PI.
3, figs.
5, 5a.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax dark reddish brown without markings.
Chelicene reddish black.
Labium and endites colored like cephalothorax, the endites scarcely paler distally, the labium not paler distally.'
Sternum like cephalothorax.
Coxce beneath lighter than sternum.
Legs reddish brown, paler beneath, immarked except for a few fine and inconspicuous longitudinal black hues, which are most distinct on femora, on each of which there is one on the dorsal surface.
Abdomen dark brownish or gray, faintly paler along the middle, with a series of inconspicuous black marks each side.
Epigynum reddish brown.
Spinnerets concolorous with abdomen.
Cephalothorax shaped about as usual.
Face with sides rounded and widely sloping, in height about haK the length of the chelicerae.
Anterior row of eyes well procurved, a line passing through the center of the median eyes l^eing tangent to the posterior margins of the lateral eyes ; anterior median eyes less than their diameter apart (five-sevenths) some closer to the subequal lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus, a little farther from eyes of second row; anterior median ej^es their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row four-fifths their diameter apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes a little wider in front than long (9.75 : 6.75) ; between onefifth and one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax (nearly 5.5 : 1).
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth equal in size or, if any different, the third largest, moderately stout and acute ; upper margin with three teeth of usual proportions.
Legs stout; tarsi all straight, not at all curved; third femora straight; fourth femora a little bent backward, not excavated behind ; second and first femora bent forward and their anterior sides moderately excavated near middle; tarsi and metatarsi of legs I and II scopulate; tarsi of legs III and IV divided by a median setose band as usual.
Total length, 10 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm.
; width, 4 mm.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XIX, fig.
7.
Length of leg I, 12 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.4 mm.
; met., 2.6 mm.
Length of leg II, 11.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 11.4 mm.
Length of leg IV, 15.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.9 mm.
; met., 4.6 mm.
Locality.
— Canada (Alberta) !.
The types are two females collected by J.
B. Tyrrell in IS86, and from these the description above was made.
Lycosa rubicunda (Keys.
), 1876.
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a light brown median band which expands anteriorly so as to enclose the eye area, than which it is much wider ant^riorl}; reaching front margin of clypeus; behind eyes it narrows rapidly, running almost to a point at dorsal groove, here usually sending out a narrow branch on each side and behind continuing as a narrow line to end of cephalothorax.
Pubescence of median band light or yellowish brown, rather sparse.
Sides of cephalothorax dark reddish brown, pubescence sparse; a marginal light band each side, of same color and pubescence as median band.
Sometimes uniform in color, without distinct markings.
Cephalothorax appearing polished even when not rubbed because of sparseness of pubescence.
Chelicene dark reddish brown clothed with moderately long brown pubescence.
Labium and endites brown, light distally.
Sternum and coxte of legs beneath brown.
Legs brown, paler beneath, usually with dark annuli which are obscure or absent beneath but distinct above.
Abdomen with yellowish-brown and black pubescence ; at base a lanceolate outline reaching to middle, from each side giving off latero-caudally a series of dark lines and followed behind by a series of chevron-marks; sides of dorsum with numerous dark dots and dashes; venter grayish brown with some dark spots and a narrow dark median line extending from spinnerets forward and widening in front to enclose the epigynum and sometimes also widening about spinnerets.
Spinnerets yellowish.
Epigynum reddish brown.
Cephalothorax high, with the sides steep; rather narrow, the sides beliind not strongly bulging.
Pars cephalica long; in profile line of dorsum conspicuously arched, rounded in front, the highest point behind eyes of third row.
Face low, in height considerably less than half the length of the chelicerie; sides of face convex, widely slanting.
First eye row clearly longer than second, slightly recurved; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, half as far from the smaller lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus, less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row about half their diameter apart, a little farther from the but little smaller eyes of third row, which are fully four times as far from each other; third row twice the diameter of one of its eyes, wider than second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes much wider than long; cephalothorax six and a half times the length of the quadrangle of posterior eyes.
Teeth of margins of furrow of chelicerce as usual.
Legs short and moderately stout, the fourth pair less than three times the length of cephalothorax; tibia + patella of fourth legs shorter than cephalothorax, metatarsus of fourth legs clearly shorter than tibia + patella; tarsi I and II and distal part of metatai-si I and II scopulate, scopulffi not dense.
Tarsi III and IV with sparse scopular hairs laterally elsewhere clothed with long bristles.
Tibia) and metatarsi I and II armed beneath as usual, the spines rather small and slender.
Patella I and II each armed in front with a single spine.
Epigynum as figured (PI.
XIX, fig.
9).
Total length, 9.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.
; width, 3.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 9.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.6 mm.
: met., 1.9 mm.
Length of leg II, 9.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 8.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 12.1 nun.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 3.2 mm.
^^™~;i^^^^y^o^f^ PoUta Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 484 PI.
46, figs.
2, 2o, 26, 2c.
> > i' , 1S90.
Lycosa polita, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563. .
Trochosa rubicundn, Marx, ibid., p. 564.
1892.
Lycosa polita, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
44 p 66 .
Lycosa polita, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p.
160.'
' .
Lycosa polita, Fox, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2, p. 267.
189.3.
Lycosa rubicunda Keyserling, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc.
I p 125 1894.
Lycosa polita Emerton, Trans.
Conn.
Acad., 9, p. 422. '
' 1902.
Lycosa polita Emerton, Common Spiders of U. S., p. 70, fig.
171.
1904.
Trochosa rubicunda, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 307, PI.
XIX, fig.
30.
Type locality.— Eastern Massachusetts; Albany, New York; New Haven, Connecticut.
Known localities.— Massachusetts, Connecticut!, Rhode Island!, New York !, Indiana, District of Columbia. "
Under stones in summer and under leaves in winter.
Eggs in June and July."
Lycosa avara (Keyserling), 1876.
(Sub Trochosa, Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 661, Pi.
VIII, figs.
38, 39.)
Female.— Cephalothorax with a light median band widest between third eyes and dorsal groove where it is as wide as third e3'e row; somewhat abruptly contracted at front of groove and then gradually narrowing to posterior end of cephalotborax, reaching second eye row in front; tegument of median band light brown clothed with yellow or brown-gray pubescence; on each side a narrow marginal and a wider supramarginal band of same color and pubescence as the median one; sides of cephalothorax elsewhere with dark reddish brown tegument, the pubescence over which is mixed light brown and blackish.
Region about eyes usually blackish.
Chelicerce dark red-brown, the lateral condyles red, the claw also reddish.
Labium and enclites dark reddish brown, paler at tips.
Sternum lighter reddish brown, with shorter brown gray pubescence and longer black bristles.
Coxce of legs beneath brown.
Legs brown with indistinct darker annuli, clothed with shorter and more dense gray pubescence and longer dark brown or blackish bristles.
Tegument of ahdomen above reddish brown, lighter beneath; pubescence above intermixed gray and.
brown and with black forming a mostly obscure lanceolate outline at base and scattered spots; sides and venter also with small darker streaks and spots in the pubescence; pubescence beneath lighter than above.
Spinnerets brown.
Epigynum reddish brown.
Sides of face convex, slanting outward, a little less than half as high as the chelicerae are long, at base nearly as wide as length of chelicerse; in profile line of dorsum highest at third eyes, convex between third eyes and posterior declivity.
Anterior row of eyes slightly procurved, scarcely shorter than the second ; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, as far from the smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes not fully one-half their diameter from front margin of clypeus and about their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row, considerably less than their diameter apart, scarcely farther from eyes of third row, which as usual are more than twice as far from each other; eyes of third row smaller than those of second nearly in ratio of 2.5 : 3.
Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth the length of cephalothorax.
Three equal and equidistant conical teeth along lower margin of furrow of chelicerce; upper margin of furrow with three teeth as usual, the first and third nearly equal, the third more removed from second.
Legs slender; tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax; metatarsus IV scarcely shorter than tibia + pateUa; posterior femora (IV) bent backward, second anterior pair of femora a little curved forward ; tarsi I and II a little carved, tarsi III and IV with scopulae divided by median setose bands; both tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate for entire length ; tibiae and metatarsi I and II armed as usual ; patella I and II not armed.
For epigynum see PI.
XX, fig.
2.
Total length, 13 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm.
; width, 3.7 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.9 mm.
; met., 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 10.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 13.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.1 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Male.
— For structure of palpus see PI.
XX, figs.
1, 3.
Total length, 8 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.9 mm.
; width, 3 mm.
Length of leg I, 10.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.9 mm.
; met., 2.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 10.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 9.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 11.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.3 mm.
; met., 2.3 mm.
Syn.— 1892.
Lycosa rufiventris Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 65, PI.
3, fin;.
35.
1895.
Lycosa rufiventris Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 3, p. 91.
1903.
Lijcosa avara, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 650, PI.
XXIX; fig.
2.
1904.
Trochosa avara, Montgomery, ibid., p. 304, PI.
XX, fig.
42.
Known /omZi^tes.— Massachusetts, New York !, Texas !, Kansas !, Iowa !.
Var.
gosiuta, new.
Females from Utah thus far seen differ a little from the type form in the shape of the epigynum.
The blunt process at distal end of guide in avara proper is absent in this variety, and the lateral ends of the transverse arms extend foi-ward beyond the middle of the fovese (PL XX, fig.
4).
Locality.
— Utah !.
Lycosa cineroa (Fab.
), 1793.
(Sub Araneus, Ent.
Syst., II, p.
423.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with the tegument marked with a broad median band which is wider than the eye area and covers clypeus in front; this band constricted back of eye area and again, more strongly, at posterior limit of pars cephalica, back of which its edges are irregular or toothed, and widening triangularly down the posterior declivity, across the lower border of which it is united with the broad lateral bands of the same color; the pale lateral bands extending forward only to the pars cephalica, with upper margin toothed ; except for these light bands the cephalothorax is dark chocolate-brown; in life the cephalothorax is densely covered with white and gray hair intermixed in spots and streaks, radiating more or less from the dorsum laterally.
Chelicerce black, clothed with gra}^ or grayish-brown hair.
Legs with clear brown tegument which is itself faintly annulate, the clothing of white hair making the annulation much more distinct.
The abdomen having on dorsum a median gray band which is margined on each side anteriorly with a black stripe, continued posteriorly by a row of black dots which in life are ocellate with central patches of white hair; the median light band enclosing anteriorly a hastate outline which is open anteriorly and is bifurcate behind; sides of abdomen white spotted with black ; venter white in life, but the tegument denuded of hair commonly shows a smoky band from genital furrow to spinnerets.
Spinnerets brown.
Coxce and sternum brown, the latter dusky marginally.
Labium brownish black.
Endites brown.
The general color effect of this species in life is that of a dusky-white body marked with small spots and streaks of gray and black.
Cephalothorax highest at middle of pars cephalica some distance back of third eye row.
The third eyes upon a plane strongly sloped anteroventrally, the face more strongly slanting.
First eye row of about same length as the second.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XX, fig.
6.
Total length, 11.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6.2 mm.
; width, 4.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 13.8 mm.
; tib.
-Ipat., 4.8 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Length of leg II, 12.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 12 mm.
Length of leg IV, 17 nam.
; tib.
+ pat., 5.5 mm.
; met., 4.2 mm.
Male.
— Coloration as in female or nearly so.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XX, fig.
5.
A specimen gave the following measurements : Total length, 9.8 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5.1 mm.
; width, 4 mm.
Length of leg 1, 12.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Length of leg II, 11.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 11 mm.
Length of leg IV, 14.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 4.8 mm.
; met., 4 mm, Syn.
— 1831.
Lycosa lynx Hahn, Die Arachn., II, p. 13, fig.
194.
1841 .
Lycosa maritima Hentz.
1848.
LTjcosa halodroma C. Koch, Die Arachn., V, p. 190, figs.
410, 411. .
Arctosa cineren C. Koch, ibid., XIV, p. 123, fig.
1358. .
Ardosn lynxC. Koch, ibid., p. 133, fig.
1364.
1875.
Lycosa maritima Hentz, Spiders U. S., ed.
Burgess.
1885.
Lycosa cinerea, Emerton, New England Lycos., Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., VI, p. 488, PI.
47, fig.
3.
1889.
Trochosa cinerea Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., p. 564.
1902.
Lycosa cinerea Emerton, Common Sp.
U. S. .
Lycosa cinerea Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 555 PI XXIX, figs.
17, 18.
» 1 , • 1904.
Trochosa cinerea, Montgomery, ibid., p. 305, PI.
XX, fig.
43.
Type locality.
— Europe.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts, Connecticut, Indiana, New Jersey, New York (Long Island !
), South Carolina, Utah !, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas.
A common form along the Atlantic seashore.
Its color of dirty white finely marked with streaks and spots of gray and black harmonizes with that of the sand over which it runs.
Lycosa floridiana (Banks).
(Sub Trochosa, Tr.
Am.
Ent.
Soc, Vol.
XXIII, p.
72.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax with a broad median yellow stripe wider than the eye area in front, and narrowing gradually caudally; eye region black, the clypeus either entirely black or paler across margin; sides of cephalothorax brown.
Chelicerce yellow to dark brown.
Labium black.
Endites brown.
Sternum and coxa; of legs beneath light brown or yellow.
Legs light brown or yellow proximally, with a tendency to become darker, smoky or blackish, distally.
Abdomen pale mesally above from anterior end to spinnerets, a faint lanceolate outline in basal part; a black spot over each antero-lateral angle, followed or not with a number of other dark spots so as to form a dark border each side of dorsum; venter and lower portion of sides immaculate.
Face low, strongly slanting outward, evenly convexly roimded laterally.
First row of eyes a little shorter than the second, weakly procurved, anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, considerably closer to the lateral than to each other.
Epigijnum wider than long; septum wide anteriorly, evenly arched ventrally; fovese oval, obliquely and well caudally placed, suggesting an approach to the AUocosa type.
Total length, 7 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.
; width, 2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 6.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.5 mm.
; tarsus, 1 mm.
Length of leg II, 6.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 7.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; tarsus, L2 mm.
Locality.
— Florida.
The genus ALLOGOSA Banks, 1900.
(Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p.
537.)
Cephalothorax glabrous or nearly so to sparsely pubescent.
Anterior tibiffi armed beneath with three pairs of spines, of which the third pair is apical in position and all of which are moderate to minute in size, either armed or unarmed laterally.
Anterior row of eyes straight to a little procurved, from longer to shorter than the second row; anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, more or less; clypeus narrow, at most as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of second row of moderate size, much less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapeziform, wider behind than in front.
Labium longer than wide, well attenuated anteriorly; basal excavation short, about one-fourth the total length.
Spinnerets very short, anterior and posterior pairs subequal in length, Epigynum simple, presenting no true guide, or but weakly furrowed, the spermatheca opening free posteriorly.
Bulb of male palpus bearing a scopus which is exterior in position.
1842.
Lijcosa Hentz (ad.
part, funerea), J. Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 4, p. 228299.
1875.
Lycosa Hentz (ad.
part, funerea), Sp.
U. S., p. 24.
1876.
Lycosa Kevserling (ad.
part, rugosa), Verh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien.
pp.
610624.
1888. ?
Tricca Simon, Ann.
Ent.
Soc.
Fr., p. 250.
1890.
Lycosa Marx (ad.
part, funerea and rugosa), Proc.
IT.
S. N. M.. p. 12.
1890.
Pardosa Stone (ad.
part, nigra), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42, p. 432.
1894.
Trochosa, Banks (ad.
part, parva), J. N. Y. E. Soc, p. 52.
1898.
Lycosa Simon (ad.
part.).
Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2. .
AuIonia(?)
Banks, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., p. 273.
1904.
Allocosa Banks, Journ.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc, p. 113.
Cephalothorax arched convexly behind, strongly attenuated anteriorly ; pars cephalica narrow and inclined anteriorly, rather low; face with sides convex and sloping outward from above below; posterior eyes seen from above well removed from sides of pars cephalica.
General appearance of cephalothorax much like that of a Drassid.
In the known species the cephalothorax is entirely without distinct pale stripes, or with a median paler band weakly contrasting.
Chelicerce rather weak ; lower margin of furrow armed with three teeth, the superior with two.
Legs short; posterior tarsi simply setose, and the anterior either entirely setose or with sparse lines of scopular hairs at the sides.
Excepting as to curvature of the anterior row of eyes, this genus is much like most species of Simon's old genus Tricca, now withdrawn by its author into Lycosa.
It has the same form of cephalothorax and shows the same tendency toward excessive reduction of the spines of the anterior legs, these spines in some species of Tricca being entirely absent from the tibiae (cf.
degesta, infra).
In Tricca the anterior row of eyes is always more or less recurved, while in Allocosa it is at most straight.
This difference may prove not to hold good.
It may become impossible ultimately to maintain this group separate from Lycosa, the American species of which it closely approaches through the Trochosa group.
Key to Species of Allocosa.
1.
All joints of legs except femora clear yellow, without any darker annulations or marldngs except at ends of tibiee IV, T 1 T ^ rugosa (Keys.).
J.egs beyond femora more or less distinctly annulate with dark, 2.
2.
Anterior row of eyes longer than the second; anterior median eyes not more than one-fifth their diameter apart; anterior tibise armed neither in front nor behind, and the ventral spines minute, .
degesta Chamb.
Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second; anterior median eyes their radius or nearly so apart; anterior tibiae armed in front and behind and the ventral spines longer, .... 3.
3.
Femora of first legs solid black above, a sub-basal brown band on the others, fimerea (Hentz) Femora of first legs not solid black, marked" with three black rings, 4 4.
First pair of ventral spines of anterior tibiaj reaching the bases of the median pair, the basal spines in length equalling the diameter of the joint; upper margin of furrow of chelicera with three teeth, ^.
.
-parva (Bks.).
l*irst pair_ of ventral spines of anterior tibia?
not reaching bases of median pair; and none of the spines in length equalling the diameter of the joint; upper margin of furrow of chelicera with two teeth, evagata, sp.
n. Allocosa rugosa (Keyserling), 1876.
(Verb.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 624, PI.
7, figs.
9, 10.)
Female.— Cephalothorax shining black with obscure brown lines radiating from above; sometimes with a brownish luster; clypeus a little paler, brownish.
Chelicerce black.
Labium, endites and coxce of legs beneath brown.
Sternum brownish black.
Legs with all femora black, all other joints yellow or pale brown, except the posterior tibiae which have a dark ring at each end.
Abdomen ^\\i\\ front declivity and the sides blackish with some minute lighter dots; dorsum obscure brown, black hues outlining a lanceolate mark at base which is continued behind as a fine black median line with a row of black dots 19 on each side of it; outside these more median marks is on each side a straight row of black spots which are in part confluent ; sides of dorsum with obscure irregular dark markings; venter brown.
Spinnerets •and epigynum brown.
Chelicerce one and one-third times as long as the face is high ; sides of face convex and bulging outward below.
Cephalothorax with its dorsal line in profile convex, not much descending posteriorly and not concavated at middle.
Anterior row of eijes shorter than the second, distinctly procurved; anterior median eyes, oval and diverging, their radius apart, hardly half so far from the lateral eyes which are a little smaller, about half their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes less than their diameter (about two-thirds) from front margin of clypeus, a little farther from eyes of second row; eyes of second row comparatively low on face, a little more than half their diameter apart; cephalothorax about 4.5 times as long as the quadrangle of posterior eyes.
Epigynum nearly as in the next species (funerea), but the median part or lobe more convex.
Total length, 5.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.6 mm.
; width, 1.9 mm.
Length of leg I, 5.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 1.9 mm.
; met., 1.2 mm.
Length of leg II, 4.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 4.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 7.8 nun.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.4 mm.
; met., 2.3 mm Male.
— Coloration as in female excepting palpi which are entirely black.
PateUa of palpi as long as or a little longer than the tibia which thickens distaUy and, seen from above, is some thicker than the preceding joint; tarsus relatively narrow, not much broader than the tibia, its apical part bent ventrad.
For palpal organ see PI.
XXIII, fig.
3.
Total length, 4.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.
; width, 1.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 5.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2 mm.
; met., 1 mm.
Length of leg II, 4.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 4.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 7.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.7 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
SjTi.
— 1890.
Pardosa nigra Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
PMla., Vol.
42, p. 432, PI.
XV, figs.
4, 4o.
Non.
sjTi.
— 1891.
Lycosa funerea Banks, Ent.
News.
Syn.
— 1902.
Lycosa nigra, Montgomery, op.
cit., p. 538, PI.
29, fig.
1.
1904.
Lycosa nigra, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 285, PI.
XX, figs.
40, 41.
Type locality.
— Mary'land (Baltimore).
Known localities.
— Maryland, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia!.
AUooosa funerea (Hentz), 1842.
(Sub Lycosa, Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 4, p.
393.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax shining reddish black becoming a little paler above, the marginal lines deep black; clypeus pale.
Cheliceros deep reddish brown.
Labium and enclites brown.
Sternum dark brown, blackish at borders.
Coxce of legs yellowish brown.
Legs with ground color brown of reddish tinge; femora of first pair of legs black, the succeeding femora similar but pale beneath and with the black divided above the proximal end by a brownish cross-band, this annulus becoming more distinction the posterior legs, and the extreme distal end of all femora pale; all tibiae with a subbasal and a subapical ring of black; metatarsi less distinctly annulate, there being a median annulus, often more or less diffused, and on posterior pairs also a siibbasal and a subapical band.
Abdomen appearing black above and at sides, minutely dotted with A^ellow; the dorsum in front paler, reddish yellow, the paler area enclosing a lanceolate black-margined outline, and followed behind by a row of light spots with black dots at center on each side, these being connected in pairs by black angular cross-lines the angles of which are directed backward ; opposed to the black cross-lines is a series of light chevron-lines wdth angles forward ; venter pale brown, immaculate or sometimes with a few short transverse marks along each side.
Form of cephalothorax and face much as in rugosa.
Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, gently procurved ; anterior median eyes their radius or a little more apart, closer to the lateral eyes which are but slightly smaller, less than their radius from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their radius apart, rather less than more; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, the cephalothorax 5.5 times longer; eyes of third row unusually small.
Labium longer than wide (5.3 : 4.8) ; basal excavation one-fourth total length; sides slightly convex, strongh'' converging distally ; front margin convexly rounded, more rarely straight.
For spines of anterior tibiae see PI.
X, fig.
3.
The epigynum nearly identical in form with that of A. degesta (PL XXIII, fig.
5).
Total length, 5.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.7 nmi.
; width, 2 mm.
Length of leg I, 6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2 mm.
; met., 1.2 mm.
Length of leg II, 5.7 mm.
Length of leg III, 5.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 8.25 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.5 mm.
; met., 2.4 mm.
Syn.
— 1875.
Lycosa funerea Hentz, J. Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., 4, p. 393.
1890.
Lycosa funerea, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12.
1897.
Lycosa funerea, Banks, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 4.
1902.
Lycosa sublata Montgomerj', Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 539.
1904.
Trochosa sublata, Montgomery, ibid., p. 308.
Type locality.
— Alabama.
Known localities.
— Alabama, Georgia!, Louisiana!.
"This species abounds on the ground.
It has the habits of a Herpyllus, and runs with great rapidity " (Hentz), AUocosa degesta Chamberlin, 1904.
(Can.
Entomologist, p.
287.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax shining black of reddish luster.
ChelicercB the same.
Labium and endites brown.
Legs nearly as in funerea, but light marks on femora more obscure and less contrast on other joints between the light and dark rings.
Sternum reddish brown, dark about margins, lighter, more yellowish, over middle area.
Abdomen above nearly as in funerea; venter yellow with a few faint dark dots at sides.
Spinnerets yellow.
Epigynum brown, weakly reddish at borders.
Chelicerce nearly twice as long as the face is high.
Anterior row of eyes a little longer than the second, nearly straight, anterior median eyes much larger than the lateral (at least 3 : 2), at most one-fifth their diameter apart, still closer to the lateral eyes, not fully one-third their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes not fully their diameter from front margin of clypeus, some closer to eyes of second row; anterior median eyes three-fourths as large as those of second TOW (PI.
X, fig.
2); eyes of second row about their radius apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, only one-sixth as long as cephalothorax.
Spines of anterior tibiae greatly reduced, minute, none at all on either anterior or posterior side of joint (PI.
X, fig.
1).
Epigynum nearly the same as that of funerea (PL XXIII, fig.
5).
Total length, 6.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.
; width, 2.25 mm.
Length of leg I, 7.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.5 mm.
; met., 1.6 mm.
Length of leg II, 6.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 9.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 2.8 mm.
Syn.
— 1904.
ITrochosa noctuabunda, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., p. 301.
Locality.
— Ijouisiana.
One mature and one immature female collected at Baton Rouge byMr. B. H. Guilbeaux.
AUooosa parva (Banks), 1894.
(Sub Trochosa, J. N. Y. Ent.
Soc, II, p.
52.)
Male.
— Cephalothorax with a wide paler median band, anteriorly wider than eye area; eye region blackish; sides deep brown to shining black; a row of indistinct dots on each side; the paler band clothed with sparse gray pubescence, especially anteriorly; dark parts with sparse gray and brown hairs intermixed ; tending to be glabrous except about eyes and face.
Chelicerce reddish brown.
Labium and endites brown.
Sternum blackish, brown at middle and along sides clothed with gray pubescence and long blackish bristles.
Coxce of legs beneath yellow.
Legs yellow with distinct black rings on all joints except tarsi.
Abdomen above grayish or yellowish gray, being clothed with light gray and some yellow hair; dorsum at base with a black lanceolate outline and behind with a number of black chevron-shaped marks and also laterally with some dark spots; venter gray, immaculate, Spi7inerets brown.
Palpi brown, not ringed, the tarsi darker than other joints.
Cephalothorax wide behind and much narrowed anteriorly, being only about one-half as wide across eyes as behind, i'^ace with sides convex and slanting, in height one-half the length of the chelicerse; in profile dorsal line is seen to be highest near third eye row, and gently convex between eyes and posterior declivity.
Anterior row of eyes slightly procurved, as long as the second row; anterior median eyes clearly larger than the lateral, more than their radius apart, close to lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus and from eyes of second row ; eyes of second rownotlarge,nearly their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior e3^es one-fifth the length of cephalothorax.
Tarsi and metatarsi of the first and second pairs of legs scopulate as usual; tarsi of the third and fourth pairs setose, not at all scopulate; patella of second legs armed in front with a single spine; tibia + patella of fourth legs a little shorter than cephalothorax, longer than metatarsi of fourth leg; patella of third leg of about the same length as the tibia ; metatarsus of first leg longer than tibia of first ; femur of f ourtli leg about same length as width of cephalothorax.
Patella of palpus clearly longer than the tibia; tarsus not fully as long as the tibia + patella.
For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XX, fig.
7.
Total length, 6 mm.
I>ength of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.1 mm.
Length of leg I, 6.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.1 mm.
; met., 1.4 mm.
Length of leg II, 5.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 8.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.8 mm.
; met., 2.3 mm.
Female.
— Coloration similar to that of male.
Epigynum of general type of that of funerea, but epigynal plate more elongate and more strongly narrowed at posterior end; with posterior margin concave or indented mesally, not bowed caudally.
Total length, 8.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.4 mm.
; width, 2.7 mm.
Length of leg IV, 9.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.1 mm.
; met., 2.8 mm.
1895.
Trochosa parva Banks, Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., Vol.
VIII, p. 430.
1901.
Trochosa parva, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 587.
1902.
Trochosa parva, Banks, Proc.
U. S. N. M., p. 217.
Type locality.
— Colorado.
Known localities.
— Colorado !, Arizona, New Mexico !, Utah !.
Allocosa evagata sp.
nov.
Female.
— Cephalothorax blackish brown; rather paler above; on each side a marginal line of clear black; in front of dorsal furrow a faint polygonal figure outlined in black, with an angle in middle of front margin produced toward eye region as a line and a similar one on each side produced obhquely along side of pars cephalica; the cephalothorax rather paler in front of this figure than elsewhere; color deeper about eyes, Chelicerce reddish brown, an indistinct blackish mark across middle which mesally continues obliquely upward on inner face.
Legs yellow with distinct dark rings of which there are three on the femora, the apical one being about twice as broad as the others; these rings incomplete above but continuous laterally and ventrally.
The second and third rings on femora IV are confluent along the anterodorsal side.
The tibiae each with two dark rings, of which at least the distal one is interrupted above.
The metatarsi with three indistinct rings.
Labium, endites, coxce and sternum yellow, the labium and sternum dusky.
Front part of dorsum of abdomen obscure reddish yellow, this area embracing some small, ill-defined dark dots.
Posteriorly are pairs of ocellate light spots which are united transversely by inverse chevron-lines, between which are indicated pale chevronlines with the apices directed forward.
The dorsum elsewhere and the sides covered with a dense network of black over the obscure yellow background, i.e., appearing black marked with numerous small dots of 3^ellow.
Venter yellow with some short transverse marks of dark color toward the sides.
Epigynum reddish yellow.
Spinnerets yellow.
First row of eijes evidently shorter than the second.
Anterior median eyes larger than the lateral (4 : 3), at most their radius apart, half as far from the lateral eyes.
Anterior lateral eyes a little less than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, two-thirds their diameter from eyes of second row.
Eyes of second row two-thirds their diameter apart.
Dorsal eye area of same length as the width in front which is but little less than that behind, the area being subquadrate.
Dorsal eye area one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax.
Legs of but moderate length.
Tibia + patella IV shorter than the cephalothorax, longer than the metatarsus.
IMetatarsus IV some longer than tibia + patella of leg I. Spines of anterior tibiae rather short, slender and prone.
None of the tarsi truly scopulate, sparsely clothed with bristles of ordinary form.
Lower margin of furrow of cheliceroe with three teeth as in Lycosa, the teeth conical and well spaced, the median one being largest.
The upper margin with but two teeth which are stout and conical, the first being larger than the second and also larger than those of the lower margin which are of about same size as the second one above.
Labium attenuated anteriorly, its front margin concave.
For structure of epigynum see PI.
XXIII, fig.
4.
Total length, 5.2 mm.
I^ength of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm.
; width, 2 mm.
Length of leg I, 6.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2 mm.
; met., 1.3 mm.
Length of leg II, 5.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 5.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 7.5 mm.
; tib.
-Ipat., 2.5 mm.
; met., 2.2 mm.
Sj'-n. — 1898.
Aulonia{1) funerea Banks, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., p. 273.
Locality.
— Baja California.
Described from a specimen loaned by California Academy of Sciences and bearing label by Banks of Aulonia{1) funerea Htz.
While not yet reported actually from within our borders, the form will doubtless be found to occur in the Southwest and is therefore included.
(7)Alloco8a exalbida L. Becker, 1881.
{Loc.
sup.
cit., figs.
3, 3a, Zb.)
Only figures were published.
A pale species about 11 mm, long, with very long legs.
The figure of the eyes would seem certainly to prove this species not to be a Lycosa.
The epigynum is not that either of Lycosa or a Pardosa, being like that of some Piratas and much like that of Allocosa {funerea).
The eyes also resemble those of this latter genus, but this form is placed here with much doubt.
Locality.
— New Orleans, The genus SOSIPPTJS E. Simon, 1888.
^;i (Ann.
Ent.
Soc.
Fr., p.
205.)
Entire body densely clothed with rather long pubescence.
Anterior tibicB armed beneath with three pairs of spines which are basal, median or submedian, and apical in position respectively; these spines long and apically slender and aculeate, much longer than the diameter of the joint (PI.
XI, fig.
4).
Anterior eyes well separated, equidistant or very nearly so; the lateral ones on protruding tubercles, as large as or (as in ours) larger than the median; the anterior row longer than the second (PI.
XI, fig.
2); clypeus as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of second row considerably less than their diameter apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapezif orm, distinctly broader behind than in front.
Chelicerce armed below with four stout conical teeth.
Labium longer than wide, the basal excavation (in ours) one-third the total length.
Posterior spinnerets distinctly and considerably longer than the anterior, the second joint of the former being long and conical (PI.
XI, fig.
5).
Epigynum with a guide which in the known species is subclavately enlarged distally (PL XXIII, fig.
2).
Alveolar area of male palpus comparatively small; a simple (in ours) process from basal lobe present in an exterior position, extending distally and free except at base; no pit or fold at base of process (PI.
XXIII, fig.
1), Svn.— 1898.
Sosippus Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2, p. 326.
1902.
Sosippus Cambridge, Boil.
Cent.
.\mer., pp.
315-332.
1903.
Comstock, Classif.
of N. A. Spiders.
Cephalothorax long and rather low, the pars cephalica not elevated.
Face rounded forward to the front eye row, the clypeus from above below more or less retro-oblique, its sides convex and slanting out ard (PI, XI, fig.
4).
Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax.
Chelicerce long and robust, the upper margin armed as usual with three teeth of which the median one is much stoutest; in the armature of the lower margin of the furrow with four stout teeth the genus resembles Dolomedes; the statement made by Simon that the two middle teeth of the lower margin are longer than the others does not hold for S. floridanus, in which the fourth tooth is distinctly longest; in immature specimens sometimes but three teeth are present on the lower margin.
Legs with the tarsi and metatarsi densely and widely scopulate for their entire lengths from base to apex, the scopulse long; the scopulae of the posterior pairs divided by a median narrow line of bristles; distal joints of legs with long aculeate bristles.
Spiders of large size, in general appearance similar to Lycosa.
Tn the character of the mouth parts they suggest some of the Pisauridce.
In the structure of the spinnerets and in the color markings of the abdomen and especially in habits they show close affinities with the Agelenidce.
The habits of the species of this genus so far as observed are very similar to those of Hippasa and Porrima, the two most closely related genera.
The three genera are all composed of species which are sedentary in habit, building large webs of fine silk with a central funnelshaped tubular retreat, preciseh^ as do the Agelenas and other Agelenidce.
In rushing out to seize their entangled prey they run upon the lower surface of the web.
Like other Lycosidce, however, they suspend their cocoons to the spinnerets where they are maintained constantly, never depositing them upon the web.
They do not desert their webs during the cocooning season.
According to Cambridge, the movements of a Sosippus which he observed upon the Amazon were exceedingly quick, like those of Agelena.
Sosippus is known only from the Americas, having been found in Florida, Lower California, Mexico, Central America and Brazil.
But one species occurs within our limits.
Sosippus floridanus Simon.
Female.
— Cephalothorax deep reddish brown or reddish black without distinct light markings in the tegument; behind the eye region a median stripe of yellow hair and on each side a wider marginal band of white hair intermixed anteriorly with some of yellow color, these marginal bands extending forward to the clypeus but not joining across it; pubescence elsewhere dark.
Chelicerce shining black sparsely clothed above with blackish hair and densely clothed below with grayish-brown hair of which there is a fringe along the furrow.
Labium and endites rather dark reddish brown, paler distally.
Sternum reddish-brown, the coxcb of legs a little paler and less reddish, clothed with cinereous hair intermixed with longer brown bristles.
Legs fuscous, varied with some reddish-brown hues and marks, the femora darker than the other joints clothed with brown and cinereous pubescence.
Abdomen blackish above, the venter brown; on each side of dorsum a row of spots of white hair and the median part of dorsum behind crossed by narrow white lines similarly formed by pubescence; outer part of dorsum and sides densely covered with minute spots and streaks of white hair; venter densely clothed with brown and cinereous hair, two darker lines converging from the epigynum backward and uniting before attaining the spinnerets, these lines being covered with the dark hair unmixed.
Face with the sides convex and widely slanting, in height only about half as great as the length of the chehcerce.
Anterior row of eyes clearly longer than the second, rather strongly procurved ; anterior median eyes some less than their diameter apart, and less than their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes a little larger than the median, their tubercles prominent, their diameter from front margin of cljqDeus, fully one and one-third their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second rowlarge, two-thirds their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes half again as wide behind as in front, a little more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax (4.8 : 1).
Lower margin of furrow of chclicene with the teeth nearly equidistant, the fourth evidently largest.
Labium but slightly longer than broad (13 : 12.8); basal excavation one-third length of labium; sides below hardly converging, but above strongly rounding and converging; front margin very slightly widely concavate to straight (PI.
XI, fig.
1).
Legs with tibiai armed as described \mder the genus, the two basal pairs long and slender, apically bristle-like, the apical pair stout and abruptly pointed (PL XI, fig.
4); tarsi, metatarsi and distal part of tibiffi I and II densely scopulate, the posterior ones differing as usual.
For spinnerets see PL XI, fig.
5.
For the structure of the epigynum see PL XXIII, fig.
2.
Total length, 14.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 7 nmi.
; width, 5 mm.
Length of leg I, 17.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 6.1 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Length of leg II, 16 mm.
Length of leg III, 15.5 mm.
Length of leg IV, 22.9 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7 mm.
; met,, 6.2 mm.
Male.
— Coloration as in the female, or a little lighter; palpus clothed wdth fulvo-cinereous pubescence.
Tibia of jpalTpus longer than the patella, the tarsus nearly equalling the combined length of the two preceding joints; tarsus much wider than the tibia (3 : 2).
For structure of the palpal organ see PI.
XXIII, fig.
1.
Total length, 11.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.
; width, 4.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 18.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 6.3 mm.
; met., 4 mm.
Length of leg II, 18 mm.
Length of leg III, 17.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 23.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 7.1 mm.
; met., 7 mm.
Locality.
— Florida !.
The female described above is one of the type specimens.
The genus TEABEA Simon, 1876.
(Arachn.
Fr., 3, p.
35G.)
Anterior tibia and metatarsi armed beneath with very long sj)ines which are much longer than the diameter of the joint; of these spines there are on the tibia three or four pairs (PI.
XII, fig.
2).
Anterior eyes in a very strongly procurved row which is shorter than the second; anterior median eyes much closer to each other than to the lateral which are but little or sometimes not at all smaller; clypeus narrow, the anterior lateral eyes being separated from its front margin by their diameter or but little more, always farther from the eyes of second row; eyes of second row at upper exterior angles of face, strongly convex and protruding, less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row hkewise strongly convex, divergent, facing outward and backward, quadrangle of posterior eyes but little wider behind than in front.
Labium wide, attenuated anteriorly, the basal excavation short.
Posterior spinnerets (at least in ours) evidently longer than the anterior, the second joint distinct though not long.
Epigynum with a guide; in ours, strongly chitinized only on each side about the spermathecal openings, elsewhere less dense, clothed with hair as tegument elsewhere.
Male palpus bearing a scopus in a median position ; basal spur extremely large, much longer than the erect branch (in ours).
Sj'n.
— 1SS5.
Aulonia Emcrton (.4. aurantiaca), Tr.
Conn Acad Sci 6 d 498.
■ ■> , I1898.
Trabcea Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2, p. 349.
1903.
Trabcea Comstock, Classification of North American Spiders.
Pars cephalica long, but little inclined anteriorly.
Sides of face straight and vertical or nearly so ; face protruding above over its basal portion (PI.
XII, fig.
1).
Quadrangle of posterior eyes relatively long.
Posterior eyes seen from above touching or protruding beyond the lateral margins of pars cephalica (PI, XI, fig.
8).
Chelicercc with the lower margin armed either with two or with three teeth, the upper with three.
Legs rather long; tarsi either very sparsely scopulate on anterior pairs or the scopula^ quite absent.
Spiders of small size, readily distinguished by the extreme convexity of the eyes of the second and third rows and by the strongly procurved first row with its median eyes closer to each other than to the lateral.
The very long straight spines of the anterior legs form a prominent feature.
The quadrangle of posterior eyes is relatively much longer than in any other known North American Lycosidce.
Trabea aurantiaca (Emerton), 1885.
(Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 499, PI.
49, figs.
6 to 66.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax black or blackish brown ; a bright yellow supramarginal band on each side extending forward to the clypeus and touching the inferior edges of eyes of second and third rows; a yellow median band nearly as wide as third eye row just behind the latter, extending broadly between the third eyes nearly to those of second row, posteriorly rapidly narrowing to a point at the dorsal groove over which it is obscure or absent, becoming again visible on the posterior declivity on which it begins above at a point and widens clavately downward to the posterior margin; eyes surrounded by black; clypeus yellow.
Chelicerce smoky brown or blackish above, yellowish distally.
Labium and endites brown, often dusky, pale distally.
Sternum and coxce of legs yellow to brown.
Legs with background yellow; femur I black; femur II hke I, but with the black more or less broken by yellow, especially so above.
; the posterior femora more largely yellow, the black marks often faint; patellae dark or black distally; tibiae with a basal and an apical dark ring, and the metatarsi more or less darkened at proximal end ; the markings of all these joints becoming more indistinct or disappearing on the posterior pairs, the last pair being often clear bright yellow.
Abdomen orangebrown, the sides marked by a series of parallel black bars which pass obliquely downward and caudad, the most anterior of which on each side bends forward across the corresponding antero-lateral angle; these black bars connected at upper ends on each side by narrow angular lines with angles directed mesad ; these angles, excepting the first, are connected into pairs by black chevron-lines across dorsum; anterior area of dorsum showing more indistinctly a lanceolate figure outlined by a fine black line; venter unmarked except for a narrow inwardly bending dark line each side of middle, the two of which are united by a cross-bar just at base of spinnerets.
Spinnerets dusky orange.
Epigynum reddish brown about spermathecal openings, elsewhere concolorous with the venter.
Pars cephalica long and high, highest anteriorly and visibly descending caudad to the pars thoracica.
Chelicerce a little longer than height of face.
Anterior row of eyes as described for genus; anterior median eyes two-thirds their diameter apart, fully their diameter from the lateral eyes which are about two-thirds as large, their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or some less from front margin of clypeus, one and one-half times their diameter from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-third or more the length of the cephalothorax (PI.
XI, fig, 8).
Lower margin of the furrow of chelicerce armed with two stout conical teeth which are subequal; upper margin with three teeth of usual character.
Labium clearly wider than long (5 : 4); the basal excavation little or not at all more than one-fifth the total length; sides strongly converging anteriorly; front margin truncate or slightly convexly rounded.
Legs having tarsi bent or curved down at distal end but not at base as in male; tarsi sparsely setose and scopuliE entirely absent.
Posterior spinnerets widely separated; distinctly longer than the anterior, but in alcohol often bent toward each other and then inconspicuous; the second joint distinct but short, bluntly pointed.
For form of epigynum see PI, XII, fig.
2.
Total length, 3.4 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, l.G mm.
; width, 1 mm.
Length of leg I, 4 nmi.
; tib.
-|pat., 1.4 mm.
; met., .95 mm.
Length of leg II, 3.8 mm.
Length of leg III, 3.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 5.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 1.7 mm.
; met., 1.5 mm.
Male.
— Lighter than female, markings of legs (excepting the anterior femora) and of abdomen less distinct or absent.
Palpi black; the tip of tarsus yellow, in life clothed, like legs, with white hair All tarsi of legs distinctly curved downward distally, the anterior ones strongly so, those of the third and fourth pairs also.
bent at proximal end.
Palpus with the sides of tibiae parallel, not at all enlarged distally; tibia longer than patella by one-fourth its length; tarsus of about same length as tibia + patella, much wider than the tibia (4 :2.5).
For palpal organ (drawn out from alveolus) see PI.
XII, fig.
3.
Total length, 2.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 1.5 mm.
; width, 1 mm.
Length of leg I, 3.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 1.3 mm.
; met., 9 mm.
Length of leg II, 3.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 3.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 4.8 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., L5 mm.
; met., 1.5 mm.
Syn.— 1890.
Aulonia aurantiaca, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12.
1892.
Aulonia aurantiaca, Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., 2.
1892.
Aulonia aurantiaca, Banks Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 73.
1898.
Trabea aurantiaca, Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2.
Type locality.
— Massachusetts and Connecticut.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts !, Connecticut, New York, District of Columbia!.
The genus SOSILAUS Simon, 1898.
(Hist.
Nat.
d.
Arai^., Vol.
2, p.
350.)
" Cephalothorax convex behind, in front long slanting and attenuated, the face rather narrow, oblique and obtuse.
Four anterior eyes subcontiguous, in a gently recurved row, the median at least twice as large as the lateral.
Eyes of the second row moderate, approximate, occupying a transverse space much narrower than the anterior eye row (PI.
XII, figs.
5, 6).
Chelicerse rather weak, the inferior margin of the furrow tridentate, liabium longer than wide, attenuated and obtuse.
Legs rather long; the metatarsi and tarsi slender and long, not scopulate; anterior tibiie armed beneath with 5-5 prone spines and the metatarsi with 3-3 similar ones, there being smaller lateral spines" (Simon).
In the character of cephalothorax and eyes this genus is very similar to Tricca and similarly much suggests Allocosa, from which it differs most conspicuously in the armature of the anterior tibiae.
The posterior eyes are situated upon a very oblique plane.
The eyes of the second row are relatively small.
But one species of this genus is known and that by a single specimen {S. spingerE.
S.).
Syn.
— 1903.
Sosilaus Comstock, Classification of North American Spiders.
Sosilaus spiniger Simon, 1898.
(Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2, p.
350.)
"Length of male 3.7 mm.— Cephalothorax fulvo-rufous, smooth and subglabrous, a narrow marginal fuscous line and the pars thoracica marked irregularly with short radiating stripes.
Abdomen fuscotestaceous, paler in front and below.
Legs lurid, tarsi infuscated.
Palpi lurid, the tarsus infuscated, sides parallel, setose with long bristles below; tibia a little longer than the patella, terete, gentlycurved; tarsus shorter than the tibia with patella, narrowly ovate, acuminate; bulb simple."
Locality.
— Louisiana.
I have not found in collections from Louisiana and neighboring States any specimens referable to this species, which remains known only from M. Simon's diagnosis and comments.
The genus PIBATA Sundevall, 1833.
(Subgenus sub Lycosa, Consp.
Arachn.
p.
24.)
Body clothed sparsely with short hairs, in life never cloaking and concealing the tegument as is commonly the case in Pardosa and Lycosa.
Anterior tibite in the female armed beneath with two pairs of spines, respectively basal and submedian in position, never with an apical pair; these spines veiy long and overlapping, much longer than the diameter of the article; rarely with three pairs beneath, the third pair midway between the median pair and the distal end of the joint; tibiae in the male with the long spines as in the female, but in addition with an apical pair (PI.
X, fig.
7).
Anterior row of eyes as long as or but little shorter than the second, a little procurved or straight, the eyes subequal or with the median a little larger than the lateral; clypeus rather narrow, the anterior lateral eyes separated from its front margin at most by their diameter, a little farther from eyes of second row; eyes of the second row large, less than their diameter apart; dorsal eye area trapeziform, wider behind than in front.
Labium longer than wide, attenuated anteriorly in varying degrees; basal excavation short, nearly always but one-fourth or less the length of the labium, only rarely longer.
Posterior spinnerets much longer than the anterior, their second joint distinct and conical.
Epigynum presenting no true guide, usually consisting behind of two strongly chitinized lobes or tubercles upon which are the openings of the spermatheca.
Bulb of male palpus with no true scopal fold or one but slightly indicated ; conductor as a conspicuous erect apophysis or process, in a mostly medio-apical position, and its principal branch reaching to or extending beyond the front margin of the alveolus ; a basal spur or branch of considerable size always present on conductor; the embolus small, short, nearly concealed usually; lunate plate very large, onethird as long as the bulb.
S\Ti.
— 1848.
Lycosa subgen.
Potamia C. Koch, Die Araclin., 14, p. 98.
1876.
Pirata Simon, Arachn.
Fr.
1876.
Pirata Keyserling, Verh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 610.
1885.
Pirata Emerton, Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 492.
1S90.
Pirata Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564.
1898.
Lycosa Simon (ad.
part), Hist.
Nat.
Araign., 2, p. 345.
1902.
Pirata Montg., Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 536.
1903.
Lycosa Comstock (ad.
part.
), Class.
N. A. Spiders, p. 51.
1904.
Pirata Chamberlin, Can.
Ent., p. 177.
1904.
Aulonia, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 265.
Cephalothorax moderately low; the pars cephalicanot elevated being nearly level with the dorsal line of the pars thoracica, in front broadly obtusely rounded, the sides rounded and considerably sloping.
Face mostly low, much shorter than the length of the chelicerse, trapeziform, the sides in most convexly rounded and widely sloping, rarely substraight and very steep or nearly vertical, the eyes of second row more or less distant from its upper exterior angles.
Except in the few species with the sides of the face very steep, the posterior eyes when viewed from above are removed from the lateral margins of the pars cephalica by more than their diameter as is the case in Lycosa {PI.
X, fig.
5).
Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth, or usually less, the length of the cephalothorax, rarely longer.
Chelicene robust, the lower margin with three teeth similar to those of Lycosa, but with the third often conspicuouslj^ reduced as in Pardosa; upper margin with three teeth of the usual character ; fringe of hair of upper margin more sparse than in Lycosa; posterior line with long but sparse hairs.
Legs robust; tarsi in most cases simply setose on all pairs, very rarely with the anterior ones with thin lateral scopular lines as in Pardosa, the bristles, however, being often serried (PL X, fig.
7); tibia -1patella of leg IV sometimes longer than, at others shorter than, the cephalothorax, longer than the metatarsus or more rarely of the same length.
The cephalothorax always presents a median pale stripe, which begins on the posterior declivity as a narrow line and then continuously widens to the third eye row, there more abruptly widening, passing below the posterior eyes of each side and attaining the clypeus ; the eyes are mostly upon black; the median stripe encloses in its anterior half a bifurcate or V-shaped dark mark, the undivided median part being at the anterior end of the dorsal furrow and sending an arm forward to the inner margin of the third eye on each side (PI.
X, fig.
5) ; marginal light stripes may or may not be present; many species are marked on the abdomen with lines and spots of bright white hair.
The Piratas are spiders of small or of medium size.
The males are in most cases as large as or larger than the females.
In habits they are much like the Pisauricke.
They occur in damp meadows or more especially at the margins of streams, ponds and other bodies of water, upon which they run with great ease.
Many forms in case of danger dive readily beneath the surface of the water and hide under stones, leaves,, etc., at the bdttom.
The cocoon is carried about attached to the spinnerets, though when the females are at rest it is commonlj^ held in the chelicerse.
The cocoons are clear white in color and spherical in shape, marked at the equator by a seam less strong than that on the cocoons of Pardosa.
The female constructs a temporary retreat under stones and other suitable places, spinning a small irregular web of very delicate texture.
The greater length of the superior spinnerets would seem to be associated with this web-spinning habit.
Key to Species of Pirata.
1.
Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerae armed with but two teeth, 2.
Ivower margin of furrow armed with three teeth, 3.
2.
Cephalothorax less than 2 mm.
long, minutus Em.
Cephalothorax 3 mm.
or more long, marxi Stone.
3.
Cephalothorax with no submarginal light stripes, .
monianus Em.
Cephalothorax with submarginal light stripes 4.
4.
Cephalothora^c less than 2 mm.
long, or at most not longer, .
5.
Cephalothorax much more than 2 mm.
long, 6.
5.
All joints of legs except tarsi distinctly ringed with black (female), aspirans Chamb.
Femora dark at distal ends, other joints of legs light, not at all marked with dark, Jnimicolus Mtg.
6.
Cephalothorax in life or when dry showing on each side a marginal stripe of bright white hair, 7 Cephalothorax showing no such stripe, insularis Em.
7.
A black marginal stripe below each pale lateral stripe, piratica utahensis, new var.
No such black marginal line, fehriculosa (Beck.).
The key above does not include prodigiosa Keys, or hilohatus TuUg.
Firata minutus Emerton, 1885.
(Trans.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 493, PI.
48, figs.
10-lOc.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax dark brown to gray-brown; a yellow median stripe of more or less greenish hue which begins caudally as a narrow line, but expands continuously forward to the eye region, continuing as a narrow stripe on each side below eyes to the clypeus as usual; within the median light band are two dark lines or narrow stripes extending backward from eyes of third row and uniting together into one line at the dorsal groove, forming thus the typical V-shaped mark; a marginal light strij^e on each side with uneven upper border, 20 not extending forward beyond third eye row ; in life a marginal line of white hair much narrower than light stripe of the tegument with which it is coextensive in length.
Chelicerce black-brown, yellow distally ; subsparsely clothed with rather long light gray hairs.
Labium and endites dark brown, paler distally.
Sternum deep brown to blackish, in most cases with a yellow median line and a number of yellow spots along each lateral margin; clothed with comparatively long light gray hairs.
Coxcb of legs beneath yellow.
Legs light brown or yellow, all joints excepting the tarsi annulate with black; the femora have usually a submedian ring and a broader ring at distal end, the latter sometimes partially divided by light; the tibiae and metatarsi have a wide annulus at each end, leaving especially on the tibiae a relatively narrow yellow ring at the middle; tibiae sometimes entirely black.
Abdomen above black, sometimes with and sometimes without narrow lanceolate yellow mark at base; dorsum clothed with sparse light brown or grayish hair, with a series of five or six spots of wliite hair along each side for the entire length, and posteriorly with narrow cross-lines of similar white hair, these lines sometimes indistinct; sides a little paler than the dorsum, with some streaks and dots of white pubescence; venter dark gray, more densely clothed with hair than the sides and dorsum, the hair being gray.
Epigynum reddish brown, usually nearly or quite concealed by long gray hairs.
Spinnerets dark brown.
Face but little more than two-thirds as high as the chelicerae are long, sides substraight and nearly vertical as in Pardosa.
Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, more strongly procurved than is usual in this genus ; anterior median eyes about their radius apart, a little larger than the lateral; anterior lateral eyes rather less than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, farther from eyes of the second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with but two teeth which are relatively long and slender, the second one a little smaller than the first, the latter evidently representing the second of the three typically present in the Lycosidce.
Ijegs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair a little longer than the cephalothorax, which is of the same length as the metatarsus of the same legs ; tibiae of first legs armed ventrally with a basal and a submedian pair of spines which are very long, overlapping as usual.
For structure of epigynum see PL XXII, fig, 7.
Total length, 3.3 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, L8 mm.
; width, 1.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 4.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 1.6 mm.
; met., 1 mm.
Length of leg II, 4.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 3.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 6.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2 mm.
; met., 1.8 mm.
Male.
— Femora of first two pairs of legs black, others dusky yellow; all other joints clear yellow, "without indications of any dark marks; palpi entirely black, except the patellae which often are paler above; coloration otherwise nearly as in female, but in general darker.
Tibia of palpus considerably longer than patella, and narrower than tarsus; main process of apophysis of conductor with its upper half bent outward at right angles to lower half at or a little in front of front margin of alveolus; basal spur ending apicallj^ in an acute point (PI.
XXI, fig.
9).
Total length, 2.9 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 1.6 mm.
; width, 1 mm.
Length of leg I, 4.4 mm.
Syn.
— 1890.
Pirata minuta Em., Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 44, p. 72.
— Pirata exigua Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44, p. 72, PI.
1, fig.
48.
1890.
Pirata minuta Em., Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564.
Non-s}Ti.
— 1892.
Pirata minuta Em., Fox, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W. Syn.— 1898.
Pirata m,inutus Em., Simon, Hist.
Nat.
Araign., II, p. 335.
Type locality.
— Massachusetts and Connecticut.
Known localities.
— Massachusetts!, Connecticut, New York (Ithaca!).
I have found females of this species with egg-sacs fairly common in certain damp meadows about Ithaca, New York, late in the summer.
A few were taken at the margins of ponds.
The male above described, from Massachusetts, was kindly loaned me by Mr. J.
11.
Emerton.
Pirata aspirans Chamberlin, 1904.
(Can.
Ent., Vol.
XXXVI, p.
286.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax dark brown crossed by radiating lines of black; a pale median band beginning at posterior margin narrows to caudal end of thoracic furrow, then widens gradually to eyes of third row where it more or less abruptly widens and encloses the eye area, below which on each side it attains the clypeus as usual ; within the median pale band a median line at front of furrow bifurcates, sending a branch to eyes of each side as usual; eyes surrounded by black; clypeus yellow; a marginal band of yellow on each side, limited below by a line of black, these side stripes extending forward only to opposite the third eyes.
Chelicerce reddish yellow, smoky over middle region and with branching lines of black over basal area.
Labium yellow.
Endites yellow above, and darker, dusky-brown below.
Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath immaculate yellow.
Legs yellow; all joints except the tarsi more or less distinctly banded with black rings; these dark rings on femora of first legs confluent and also semiconfluent on other joints; femora with four rings, of which the apical one may be indistinct.
Dorsum of abdomen black, at sides minutely punctate with yellow; at base a lanceolate yellow mark, on each side of which just behind middle is a small ovate yellow spot with black dot at center, and each side of apex a larger triangular yellow spot ; behind is a series of yellow transverse bowed or chevron-shaped transverse marks which become successively shorter caudad, the last few being diamond shaped and contiguous by their apices; sides of abdomen above like sides of dorsum, but below becoming more and more yellow, the black being first reduced to spots and then quite disappearing at venter; venter yellow, dusky in front of the genital furrow and also with a dusky interrupted median band extending back from epigynum twothirds the distance to the spinnerets, and on each side of venter a narrow irregularly edged black line which does not extend all the way to the spinnerets behind.
Spinnerets yellow.
Epigynum reddish yellow.
Sides of face of moderate steepness; face a little more than half as high as the chelicerse are long.
Seen in profile, the dorsal line of the cephalothorax is straight and horizontal or nearly so between the eyes and the posterior declivity, the pars cephalica not being elevated at all above the pars thoracica.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth, of which the middle one is much stoutest and longest, the first one clearly the smallest; the upper margin with three teeth of the usual proportions.
Labium slightly longer than broad (5 :4.8), four and five-tenths times longer than its basal excavation strongly converging anteriorly; anterior margin indented mesally with its side parts convexly rounded.
Legs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair much longer than the cephalothorax, which is of the same length as the tibia + patella of the first pair; spines of anterior tibiae very long, those of the first pair to or a little beyond the middle of the joint.
Anterior row of eyes but slightly procurved, shorter than the second ; anterior median eyes about two-thirds their diameter apart, closer to the lateral eyes which are two-thirds as large, hardly two-thirds tlieir diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes three-fourths their diameter from front margin of clypeus, their diameter or slightly more from eyes of second row; eyes of second row two-thirds their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes slightly wider in front than long, longer behind than in front in ratio of 9 : 7 (nearly), onefourth as long as the cephalothorax.
Epigynum with the lateral tubercles widely rounded behind, being mesally shallowly angularly excavate (PI.
XXII, fig.
6).
Total length, 4 mm.
Ijength of cephalothorax, 1.9 mm.
; width, 1.4 mm.
Length of leg I, 5.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 1.9 mm.
; met., 1.2 mm.
Length of leg II, 5.1 mm.
Length of leg III, 4.7 nmi.
Length of leg IV, 7.3 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.3 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Male.
— For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XXII, fig.
5.
Syn.
— 1890.
Pirata minuta Fox (at least ad.
part.
), Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W. Locality.
— ^Washington, D. C. !.
Pirata humioolus Montgomery, 1902.
(Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 575, PI.
30, figs.
40, 41.)
Female.
— Sides of the cephalothorax brown to black with lighter radiating lines; a yellow median band widening from behind, where it is a mere line, forward and enclosing the usual dark bifurcate mark in its front half; on each side a yellow supramarginal stripe which does not extend upon the pars cephalica and which is limited below by a black marginal line; in life there is a marginal line of white hair.
Chelicerce, labium and endites dark reddish brown.
Sternum dark brown, paler along middle and darker at lateral margins.
Legs brown, often of greenish hue, the cox(e beneath paler, yellow.
Palpi like the legs, paler at the base.
Dorsu?n of abdomen brown of greenish tinge; a basal lanceolate median stripe; two rows of light spots clothed with white pubescence on each side of the basal stripes and extending to the spinnerets behind, the outer line often evidently only caudally, the spots of the inner lines largest anteriorly connected by some thin cross-lines of white hair; sides of abdomen yellowish brown tinged with green; venter clear yellow, sometimes a few small black dots in front of spinnerets.
Epigynum reddish brown.
Spinnerets yellow.
Chelicerce one and one-third times the height of the face, the sides of which are subvertical as in Pardosa.
Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, a little procurved; eyes of second row nearly their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax.
Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce armed below with three teeth.
Total length, 4 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 1.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 4.8 mm.
Length of leg II, 4.3 mm.
Length of leg III, 4,2 mm.
Length of leg IV, 6.1 mm.
Male.
— Coloration darker than in the female.
Cephalothorax nearlyblack.
Abdomen nearly as in female but the venter darker.
Chelicerce black.
Legs yeUow except the femora of the first two pairs which are black.
Femur of palpi black, the other joints paler.
Total length, 2.9 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 1.7 mm.
Svn.
— 1903.
Pirata humicolus Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., -p. 654.
1904.
Aulonia humicola, Montgomery, Proc, Acad.
Nat, Sci.
Pliila.
p. 265, PI.
XX, fig.
33.
Locality.
— ^Pennsylvania, Known localities.
— ^Pennsylvania!, New Jersey.
Firata montanus Emerton, 1885, (Tr.
Conn. Acad, Sci., p. 493, PI.
48, fig.
9.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax deep brown or blackish with no lighter marginal stripes ; a yeUow or reddish-yellow median stripe beginning at the clypeus enclosing the dorsal eyes and then narromng caudad, ending as a pointed line on the posterior declivity; median band enclosing in front of dorsal groove a dark stripe which bifurcates, sending one of its branches forward to and along the inner margins of the eyes of each side; eyes enclosed with black; in life on each side a marginal line of white hair, Chelicerce dark brown, paler distally, the tips of claws reddish.
Labium and endites brown, lighter distally as usual.
Sternum brown, a dark line or row of dark spots on each side, the two converging caudad.
Legs yeUow, without markings excepting sometimes faint annuli on femora.
Abdomen above black; a reddish-brown median lanceolate stripe at base extending to middle; each side of apex of this stripe a reddish spot and behind a number of chevron-shaped transverse marlcs; all these marks may be indistinct and sometimes the basal stripe alone is distinguishable; in life there is on each side a series of about six spots of light yehow hair; sides colored like the dorsum but in life more densely pubescent; a short line of yellow hair passing back across each antero-lateral angle, the sides elsewhere being clothed with black hairs with more scattered ones of yellow; venter brown, clothed with yellowish gray pubescence.
Spinnerets brown, Epigynum reddish black.
Sides of jace steep, but evidently diverging outward below.
First row of eyes nearly as long as the second, a little procurved ; anterior median eyes more than half their diameter apart (nearly three-fourths), nearly the same distance from the smaller lateral eyes (about 3 : 4) ; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or rather a little less from the front margin of clypeus, more than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax (1 : 4.5).
Lower margin of the furrow of chelicerce with three teeth, of which the middle one is usually a Uttle longest.
Legs with tibia + patella IV longer than the cephalothorax, which latter is longer than tibia + patella I; anterior tibia beneath with three pairs of very long overlapping spines, the third pair being between the middle pair and the distal end of the joint and truly ventral in position (PI.
X, fig.
9) ; patella II armed in front.
Epigyniim with the posterior margin nearly straight; not excavated mesally; the bulbs of the spermathecse contiguous mesally.
(PI.
XXII, fig.
9.)
Total length, 2.4 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm.
Length of leg I, 6.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.2 nmi.
; met., 1.5 mm.
Length of leg II, 6.2 mm.
Length of leg III, 6.1 mm.
Length of leg IV, 9.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 2.8 mm.
Syn.
— 1890.
Pirata elegans Stone, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 42.
Pirata montanus, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564.
1892.
Pirata agilis Banks (ad.
part), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 44, p. 72, PI.
I, fig.
47.
1902.
Pirata elegans, Montg., op.
cit., p. 581, PL XXX, fig.
36.
IPirata nigromaculatus Montg., ibid., p. 579, PI.
30, figs.
44, 45.
1904.
Pirata elegans, Montgomery, ibid., p. 310. .
IPirata nigromaculatus, ibid., p. 310.
Type locality.
— New Hampshire (White Moimtains) and New York (Adii-ondack Mountains at Long Lake).
Known localities.
— New York !, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Utah !.
Pirata marxi Stone, 1890.
(Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 42.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax in fresh specimens obscure brown to gray-black, crossed by many radiating lines of black; a yellow median band of the typical form enclosing the usual bifurcate mark in front of the dorsal groove, the mark coalescing on each side just in front of the groove with the dark area of the sides; there is thus between the arms of the V-mark a narrow median yellow stripe or line which extends forward to the second eye row, and on each side of pars cepbalica also a narrow line which extends forward beneath the eyes to the clypeus, but which is disconnected with the median stripe behind; on each side a siipramarginal yellow stripe with uneven upper margin, and limited below by a black marginal line; no marginal stripe of white hair.
Chelicerce reddish brown.
Endites brown, pale distally, the labium in most darker, dusky-brown to blackish.
Sternum brown.
Coxes of legs beneath yellow.
Legs clear yellow, darker distally, entirely without dark rings or markings.
Abdomen yellow with markings in black as follows : at base above a lanceolate outline ; along each side of dorsum a wavy or zigzag stripe, the two converging to spinnerets, each united with lanceolate basal mark at its base and again at its middle; the outwardly directed angles of these dark stripes often more or less extended down the sides as narrow lines; along the median line of dorsum behind several short black marks, sides of abdomen anteroventrally with a dark area composed of a close network of black lines, and postero-dorsally with a number of isolated dark areas formed of similar reticulations, leaving thus in most a clear yellow stripe of varying width curving from the dorso-anterior angle obliquely downward and backward between the two darkened areas described ; a row of spots of yellow hair on each side of dorsimi behind; venter with some scattered minute black dots, a few usually just behind the epigynum and more numerous ones in front of spinnerets, the latter usually forming two short hues close together which may extend forward to middle or even to the spots behind epigynum, sides and venter clothed with yellow hair.
Spinnerets yellow.
Epigynum pale brown, reddish marginally, darker caudad.
Face rather low and wide, sides well rounded and slanting.
Cephalothorax high ; highest at third eye row, from there convexly rounded to the dorsal groove; posterior declivity steep.
Anterior row of eyes as wide as the second, nearly straight, the centers of the lateral eyes being but little' lower than those of the median; anterior median eyes a little larger than the lateral, scarcely one-third their diameter apart, their radius from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes four-fifths their diameter from front margin of clypeus, the same distance from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row less than their radius apart (2 : 5) ; quadrangle of posterior eyes less than onefifth as long as cephalothorax (1: 5.5), wider in front than long, very wide behind, being wider than in front in ratio of 8.4: 5.6.
Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with but two teeth.
Labium longer than wide, the basal excavation longer than is common ; front margin substraight, or but slightly convex.
Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair longer than the cephalothorax; the corresponding joints of the first pair slightly shorter than the cephalothorax; anterior tibifp armed below with two pairs of spines in the usual position, shorter than usual in this genus, those of the first pair not overlapping the bases of the second, to which they usually do not fully extend ; all tarsi subsparsely setose.
The epigynum is a large quadrangular area which is somewhat wider in front than behind, the lateral margins being substraight and a little converging caudad ; the posterior border is angularly excavated at the middle and the spermatheca open on each side caudad directly into the excavation, their terminal portions often showing darkly through the chitinous wall.
(PI.
XXII, fig.
8.)
Total length, 7.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.
; width, 2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.7 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.1 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 8.1 mm.
Length of leg III, 7.9 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.5 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Male.
— Coloration as in the female.
Tibia of the palpus longer than the patella, of the same thickness (seen from above) ; tarsus much broader than the tibia.
Principal branch of apophysis of conductor long, curving outward above; basal branch relatively large; base of apophysis farther caudad than usual.
(PL XXI, fig.
8.)
Total length, 5.6 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.
; width, 2.3 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.1 mm.
; met., 2.1 mm.
Length of leg II, 7.9 mm.
Length of leg III, 7.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.4 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.2 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Syn.— 1885.
Pirata piratica Emerton (non CI.
), Tr.
C. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 492, PI.
48, figs.
7 to 7b.
1890.
Pirata piratica Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564.
1891.
Pirata piratica Marx, Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
W., p. 161.
1892.
Pirata piratica Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 44.
1902.
Pirata jriratica Emerton, Com.
Sp.
U. S., p. 84, figs.
208, 209.
1902.
Pirata niarxi, Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 582, PI.
XXX, fig.
47.
1904.
Pirata marxi, Montgomery, ibid., p. 309, PI.
XIX, fig.
27.
Type ZocaZ%.— Pennsylvania (York County).
Known localities.
— Massachusetts!, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New York !, District of Columbia.
Pirata insularis Emerton, 1885.
(Tr.
Conn. Acad.
Sci., 6, p. 492, PI.
48, figs.
8, 8a.)
Fe77iale.— Sides of cephalothorax brown crossed by radiating Unes of black; a median reddish-yellow band of the usual form enclosing the V-shaped mark in front; on each side also a yellowish supramarginal stripe with uneven upper edge and limited below by a narrow dark marginal stripe, this stripe not extending forward beyond the cervical furrow; cephalothorax with sparse, short dark hairs, no marginal lines of white pubescence.
Chelicerce reddish yellow, clothed sparsely with light gray hair.
Labium and endites reddish yellow, paler distally.
Sternum and coxcb of legs beneath reddish yellow, sparsely provided with mostly stiff blackish hairs, the former often blackish along sides and pale mesally.
Legs brownish yellow, all joints excepting the tarsi with more or less distinct dark annulations, or these sometimes very indistinct on or absent from the metatarsi.
Abdomen above blackish; at base above a yellow lanceolate median stripe extending caudally to the middle; each side of the apex of the lanceolate stripe is a yellow spot and behind is a number of transverse yellow marks, each of which, has in most cases the shape of an open angle with the apex directed forward, but more rarely the marks are nearly straight; each side of the median markings of the dorsum above described is in life a series of white spots formed of bunches of white hair, the dorsum elsewhere being sparsely clothed with short yellowish hairs and more scattered long dark bristles; a narrow yellow stripe or row of yellow spots passing over each antero-lateral angle caudally, breaking up over the side into more scattered yellow dashes; this yellow stripe on front of sides often partly masked by white hair, but this hair never forming a very distinct or extensive line or stripe; venter pale yellow to grayish, a darker median line behind epigynum, hair of entire venter yellow.
Spinnerets light brown.
Seen in profile the dorsal line of the cephalothorax is nearly horizontal, notched at dorsal groove.
The chelicerse about one and one-fourth times the height of the face.
First row of eyes nearly as long as the second, nearly straight; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, closer to the evidently smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes less than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, some more than their diameter from eyes of second row ; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax.
Labium longer than wide (7 : 6) ; basal excavation a little more than one-fourth as long as the labium ; sides below straight and but slightly converging, more strongly converging and more rounded above; front margin substraight, being very slightly bowed forv/ard.
Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair clearly longer than the cephalothorax.
the corresponding joints of the first legs being also a little longer; anterior tibise armed beneath as usual; patella of leg I unarmed, that of leg II with a spine in front; tarsi setose.
Epigynum presenting two more or less divergent tubercles caudad, upon the ventral face of which the spermatheca open; these tubercles, at first angular, ma}^ become more rounded with age.
(PL XXII, fig.
4.)
Total length, 6.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.1 nun.
; width, 2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 9.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.3 mm.
; met., 2.2 mm Length of leg II, 8.4 mm.
Length of leg III, 7.7 mnL Length of leg IV, 11.6 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.7 mm.
; met., 3.6 mm.
Male.
— Coloration nearly as in female except that the femora and tibise are indistinctly annulate and the other joints clear yellow; the palpi are brown of reddish tinge.
For structure of palpus see PL XXII, fig.
3.
Total length, 4.5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.2 mm.
Syn.— 1890.
Plrata insularis, Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564.
1892.
Pirata insularis, Banks, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 41, p. 71.
1902.
Pirata liber Montgomery, op.
cil., p. 578, PL 30, figs.
42, 43.
1904.
Pirata liber, ibid., p. 311.
I'ype locality.
— ^Loiig I^ake, Adirondack Mountains, New York.
Known localities.
— Rhode Island !, New York!, Pennsylvania!.
This is a common species which is subject to considerable variation, both in some of its structural characters and, more noticeably, in depth of coloration.
In some the annulations are very deep and distinct and the body parts are correspondingly dark, while in others the annulations may be very indistinct.
Pirata febriculosa (Beck), 1881.
(.\nn.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., 25, PI.
3, figs.
2, 2a.)
Female.
— Sides of cephalothorax dark brown to blackish of usually greenish tinge; a reddish yellow median band narrow caudally and widening anteriorly to the eye region, where it expands and passes below the eyes of each side and attains the clypeus; in front of dorsal furrow a median black line which bifurcates sending a branch forward to inner side of third eye of each side in the usual manner; on each side a moderately wide yellow or reddish-yellow marginal band which extends forward as far as the cervical furrow; clypeus yellow; eye region black; along each lateral margin in life a distinct hne of white hair much narrower than the Hght band in tegument; the sides of the cephalothorax are sparsely clothed with short black.
hairs.
Chelicerce yellowish brown, distally reddish yellow, clothed subsparsely with long light gray hair.
Labium pale brown, lighter distally.
Sternum and coxce of legs beneath yellow, clothed sparsely with blackish hairs.
Legs greenish yellow, more reddish distally, sometimes without evident markings, but in the great majority with faint dark annulations showing most distinctly on the femora and tibiae of the posterior pairs ; these annuli usually broken above.
Abdomen above black or blackish brown; at base is a narrow lanceolate reddish-yellow stripe which ends at middle and is margined with a line of black, outside and parallel with the black edge being in life a line of white hair, the two white lines meeting at a truncate angle on posterior portion of dorsum, these lines sometimes each reduced to a row of spots or less commonly entirely absent ; a narrow stripe of white hair passing caudad over each anterolateral angle and spreading out usually in streaks over the upper part of side and connecting behind with the white of opposite side above spinnerets; lower portion of sides brown and, like most of dorsum, clothed with brown hair; venter brown to gra}^, paler in front of genital furrow.
Tubercles of eipigynum reddish.
Spinnerets pale brown.
Face a little more than half as high as the length of the chelicercB.
Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as second, slightly procurved; anterior median eyes their radius apart; much closer to the lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes considerably smaller than the median, their diameter or nearly so from the front margin of clypeus, more than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row considerably less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes less than one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax (1 : 5.5).
Chelicerce armed as usual.
Labium longer than wider ( 10.5 : 10) ; basal excavation short, scarcely more than one-fifth as long as labium ; lower part of sides nearly straight, only slightly converging, but for upper third more strongly rounded and converging; front margin truncate.
Legs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair longer than the cephalothorax; the corresponding joints of the first pair shorter than the cephalothorax; tarsi of first two pairs of legs scopulate laterally, those of the posterior pairs simply setose ; anterior tibia below with the usual basal and submedian pairs of legs which are long, the first well overlapping the second ; patellae of first legs unarmed, those of second with a spine on anterior face.
Epigynum presenting behind two angular tubercles, the inner or mesal faces of which are nearly parallel and are more than usually close together leaving the excavation between them narrow; their outer faces clearly more strongly diverging than the inner.
(PI.
XXII, fig.
2.)
Total length, 7.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.3 mm.
; width, 2.6 mm.
Length of leg I, 8.5 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3 mm.
; met., 2 mm.
Length of leg II, 7.6 mm.
Length of leg III, 7.3 mm.
Length of leg IV, 11.2 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.6 mm.
; met., 3.2 mm.
Male.
— ^For structure of palpal organ see PI.
XXII, fig.
1.
Syn.
— 1904.
Lycosa icacondana Scheffer, The Industrialist, Kansas, p. 13, PL I, fig.
7.
1904.
Pirata sedentarius , Montgomery, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., p. 312.
Type locality.
— Kansas.
Known localities.
— New York !, Kansas !, Iowa !, Texas !.
Apparently this species is close to L. piratica.
The palpal organs are similar, but in jebricu'.osa the superior horn of the apophysis is at once seen to be longer and straighter and more outwardly directed.
Pirata piratica (Clerck) var.
utahensis, new.
Male.
— Palpal organ agreeing in detail with that of the European species or nearly so.
Cephalothorax with the median pale stripe and dark 'S^-shaped enclosure as usual, the arms of the latter parallel anteriorly back to posterior third, then converging to a point.
Laterial pale stripes reaching pars cephalica, each bordered below wdth a dark marginal stripe.
A marginal line of bright white hair showing in life or in dry specimen as in jebriculosa and piratica of type fomi.
Femora of all legs with dark annuli, these most distinct on second and third pairs, showing clearly on the ventral surface of the latter; other joints unmarked, distal ones some darker.
Sternum and coxce beneath pale.
Abdomen black above, the usual pale mark at base; a white stripe of hair over each antero-lateral angle ; a narrower line of white hair each side of basal mark, followed behind by a row of white spots similarly formed; venter pale, with three narrow stripes of brown converging caudally.
Length, 6.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 3.4 mm.
; width, 2.5 mm.
Locality.
— Utah !.
Likely to be found throughout the Pacific States.
Pirata prodigiosa Keyserling, 1876.
CV^erh.
z. b. Ges.
Wien, 26, p. 669, PI.
8, fig.
44.)
Female.
— CephalotJiorax brown with a narrow black line along each lateral inargin, above which is an uneven edged, wavy yellow stripe; a similarly colored median band, which beginning narrow behind widens cephalad, is constricted a little behind the eyes and then again widens to enclose the eyes as usual, embracing in its anterior half two dark elongate marks which beginning at the two posterior eyes converge and unite at the front end of the median furrow; eyes enclosed in black.
Chelicerce reddish yellow.
Labium brownish 3^ellow with paler tip.
Sternum blackish with a yellow median stripe and on each side three similarly colored elongate spots.
Legs yellow, a little darker distally, with faint indications of light rings.
Palpi yellow, distal joints brown.
Abdomen above dark gray; anteriorly with a yellow stripe, near this two small spots, and behind this and extending to the spinnerets a number of paired successively smaller and smaller spots of the same yellow color; sides marked with small streaks and dots of yellow ; venter smoky white'Vith three brown longitudinal stripes and several similarly^colored streaks at the sides of these.
Epigynum clear reddish brown.
Spirmerets browjiish yellow.
In a second specimen the sternum has two dark, indistinct, parallel longitudinal lines over its middle region.
Cephalothorax shorter than the tibia + patella of the fourth pair of legs, as wide as the metatarsus of the same legs, not highly arched, the entire back apparently of similar height, toward the lateral margins fiat and toward the nearly straight caudal margin rather steeply sloping ; cephalic furrows indistinct, the head in front low and sloping flatly at the sides.
Anterior row of eyes straight, somewhat shorter than the second, separated from the latter and from the margin of the clypeus by not fully the diameter of one of the somewhat larger median eyes; eyes of the second row nearly their diameter apart, more than this from the two-thirds as large eyes of the third, distinctly wider row; entire eye area wider behind than in front.
Chelicerse someAvhat enlarged in front, not entirely twice as wide as the labium, which is somewhat longer than wide and is anteriorly somewhat excavated.
Sternum somewhat longer than broad, moderately arched and clothed with a few black bristles.
Legs moderately slender, the fourth pair somewhat more than three and one-half times as long as the cephalothorax and about twice the length of its tarsus longer than the first; tibia + patella IV somewhat longer than metatarsus which is longer than the femur; principal claws of tarsi with 6-7 teeth, the middle one with none; only a thin scopula on tarsi of the two first pairs, none on the posterior; spines of femur I above 1, 1, 1, within 1, without none, of patella I none, of tibia I below 2, 2, 2, within 1 ; spines of second legs the same as for I. Posterior spinnerets twice as long as the anterior and distinctly two-jointed ; the middle pair very slender but as long as the anterior.
Total length, 6.2 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm.
; width, -2.2 mm.
Length of leg I, 7.9 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 2.8 mm.
; met., 1.7 mm.
Length of leg II, 7.3 nmi.
Length of leg III, 6.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 10.1 mm.
; tib.
+ pat., 3.3 mm.
; met., 3 mm.
Syn.— 1890.
Plraia prodigiosa Marx, Proc.
U. S. N. M., 12, p. 64.
Locality.
— Illinois (Peoria).
Types in collection of Dr. Koch.
Pirata bilobata (Tullgren), 1901.
(Bih.
till sv.
Vet.-Akad.
Handl., B.
27, Abd.
4, No.
1, p. 22, Plate, fig.
12.)
Female.
— Cephalothorax light brown, clothed with short dark ad pressed hairs and strewed with long dark upturned bristly hairs; the pars cephalica with three lighter bands and at the margins of pars thoracica a broad liglit band.
Chelicerce light bro\\ai and strewed with long bristly hairs.
Endites yellow and clothed by long bristly hairs.
Sternum light brown, clothed by long black bristly hairs.
Legs pale brown.
Abdomen above dark brown with a lighter middle band and three pairs of very small white spots ; the venter light yellowish brown.
Epigynum.
dark corneous.
Cephalothorax with a long and distinct central furrow on pars thoracica ; in length a little shorter than the length of tibia and patella and the breadth shorter than the length of tibia of the fourth pair of legs.
Front row of eyes distinctly procurved ; the intervals about equal ; the central eyes nearly twice as large as the lateral eyes ; the interspace between the central eyes and the margin of the clj^peus as long as the diameter of the eyes; eyes of the middle row separated from each other by an interspace about as broad as their diameter and separated from the central anterior eyes by an interspace about as long as the diameter of these eyes; the distance from the posterior eyes a little longer than the diameter of the middle eyes.
Chelicerce about twice as long as the face, tapering at the apex.
Endites about twice as long as labium.
The epigynum bilobate, the lobes rounded.
Total length, 3.8 mm.
Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.
; width, 1.8 mm.
Length of leg I, 6.8 mm.
Length of leg IV, 8.6 mm.
Locality.
— Florida.
Two achilt females from Lake Leonore in Oraiige County.
Although this species was described as a Pardosa, it seems very clear from the structure of the epigynum, as shown in the figure accompanying the original description, taken in connection with several points in the description, that it is a Pirata.
The statement that the pars cephalica is marked with "three lighter bands" indicates the presence of the peculiar Pirata marking of the cephalothorax.
Explanation of Plates VIIIXXIII.
Plate VIII.
— General Characteristics op the Genus Pardosa.
Fig.
1.
— Right chelicera of P. sternalis.
Fig.
2.
— Dorsal view of the cephalothorax of P. lapidicina.
Fig.
3.
— Right chelicera of P. atra.
Fig.
4.
— Labium of P. lapidicina.
Fig.
5.
— Face of same.
Fig.
6.
— -Labium of P. emerloni.
Fig.
7.
— Ventral view of tarsus of first leg of P. sternalis.
Fig.
8.
— Labium of P. atra.
Fig.
9.
— Tibia of first leg of P. sternalis seen from behind and slightlj' below.
Plate IX.
— General Characteristics of the Genus Lycosa.
Fig.
1.
— Right chelicera of L. gulosa.
Fig.
2.
— Dorsal ^dew of cephalothorax of L. helluo.
Fig.
3.— Right chelicera of L. kochii.
Fig.
4.
— Tibia of first leg of same viewed from behind and a httle below.
Fig.
.5.
— Face of L. helluo.
Fig.
6.
— Tarsus of fourth leg of same seen from the side.
Fig.
7.
— Side view of tarsus of first leg of L. helluo showing scopula.
Fig.
8.
— Labium of L. errotica.
Fig.
9.— Labium of L. aspersa.
Plate X.
— General Characteristics of the Genera Allocosa and Pirata.
Fig.
1.
— Tibia of first leg of A. degesta \'iewed from the side and a little below.
Fig.
2.
— Face of same.
Fig.
3.
— Tibia of first leg of A.funerea seen from the side and a little below.
Fig.
4.
— Labium of same.
Fig.
5.
— Dorsal view of cephalothorax of P. montanus.
Fig.
G. — Labium of same.
Fig.
7.
— Tibia of first leg of same "sdewed from the side and a little below.
Fig.
8.
Spinnerets of same ^dewed from the side.
Fig.
9.
— Tarsus of first leg of P. montanus viewed from the side.
Plate XI.
— General Char.\cteristics of the Genera Sosippus and Trabea.
Fig.
1.
— Labium of S. floridanus.
Fig.
2.
— Face of same.
Fig.
3.
— Right chelicera of same.
Fig.
4.
— Tibia of first leg of same viewed from in front and a little below.
Fig.
5.— Spinnerets of same.
Fig.
6.
— Tarsus and part of metatarsus of first leg of same viewed from the side.
Fig.
7.
— Right chelicera of T. aurantiaca.
Fig.
8.
— Dorsal \-\ew of cephalothorax of T. aurantiaca.
Fig.
9.
— Labium of T. aurantiaca.
Plate XII.
— General CnAitACTERisTics op the Genus Tkabea (continued) AND SOSILAUS.
Fig.
1.
— Face of T. aurantiaca.
Fig.
2.
— Epig)Tium of T. aurantiaca.
Fig.
3.— Male palpal organ of T. aurantiaca drawn out from the alveolus.
Fig.
4.— Tibia of first leg of T. aurantiaca viewed from the side and below.
Fig.
5.
— Dorsal view of front part of pars cephalica of S. spiniger.
Fig.
6.
— Face of S. spiniger.
Plate XIII.
— Copulatory Organs of Species of Pardosa.
Fig.
1 .
— Epigynum of P. saxatilis.
Fig.
2.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
3.
— Epigynum of P. milvina.
Fig.
4.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
5.
— Epigynum of P. sternalis.
Fig.
6.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
7.
— Epigynum of P. banksi.
Fig.
8.
— Epigvnum of P. afra.
Fig.
9.
— Epigynum of P. pauxilla.
Plate XIV.— Copulatory Organs of Species of Pardosa (continued).
Fig.
1.
— Epigynum of Pardosa emertoni.
Fig.
2.— Epigynum of P. sternalis, immature ( P=.
coloradensis Bks.).
Fig.
3.
— Epigynum of P. xerampelina.
Fig.
4.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
5.
— Epigynum of P. californica.
Fig.
6.
— Epigynum of P. grcenlandica.
Fig.
7.
— EpigjTium of P. lapidicina.
Fig.
8.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
9.
— Epigynum of P. moesta.
Plate.
XV.— Copulatory Organs of Species of Pardosa (continued).
Fig.
1.
— Epigynum of P. modica, typical form.
Fig.
2.— Palpus of id., typical form (after Emerton), Fig.
3.
— Epigynum of P. modica var.
hrunnea.
Fig.
4.
— ^Palpusof same.
Fig.
5.
— Epigynum of P. mackenziana.
Fig.
6.— Palpus of same, front view (after Emerton).
Fig.
7.
— Id., side view (after Emerton).
Fig.
8.
— EpigjTium of P. distincta (after Emerton).
Fig.
9.
— Palpus of same (after Emerton).
Plate XVI.
— The Genus Schizocosa.
Fig.
1.
— Epigynum of S. ocreata.
Fig.
2.— Palpus of S. saltatrix.
Fig.
3.
— Epigynum of S. bilineata.
Fig.
4.
— Epigynum of S. saltatrix.
Fig.
5.
— Palpus of S. ocreata.
Plate XVII.
— Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycosa.
Fig.
1.
— EpigjTium of L. helluo.
Fig.
2.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
3.
— Epigjmum of L. erratica.
Fig.
4.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
5.
— Epigynum of L. riparia.
Fig.
6.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
7.
— Epigynum of L. aspersa.
Fig.
8.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
9.
— Epigynum of L. scutulata.
Plate XVIII.— Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycosa (continued).
Fig.
1.
— Palpus of L. scutulata.
Fig.
2.
— Epigynum of L. punctulata.
21 Fig.
3.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
4.
— Epigynum of L. frondicola.
Fig.
5.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
6.
— Epigynum of L. coloradensis.
Fig.
7.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
8.
— Epigynum of L. lenta.
Fig.
9.
— Palpus of same.
Plate XIX.
— Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycosa (continued).
Fig.
1.
— Palpus of L. albohastata (type).
Fig.
2.
— Epigynum of L. fumosa (type).
Fig.
3.
— Palpus of same (type).
Fig.
4.
— Palpus of L. heani (type).
Fig.
5.
— Epigynum of same (type).
Fig.
6.
— Palpus of L. pidilis (type).
Fig.
7.
— Epigynum of L. quinaria (type).
Fig.
8.
— Epigynum of L. pictilis (type).
Fig.
9.
— Epigj-num of L. ruhicunda.
Plate XX.
— Copulatory Organs of Species op Lycosa (continued).
Fig.
1 .
— Palpus of L. avara, side view.
Fig.
2.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
3.
— Palpus of same, ventral view.
Fig.
4.
— Epigynum of //.
avara var.
gosiuta.
Fig.
5.
— Palpus of L. cinerea.
Fig.
6.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
7.
— Palpus of Allocosa parva.
Fig.
8.
— Epigynum of L. fatifera.
Fig.
9.
— Epigynum of L. arenicola.
Plate XXI.
— Copulatory Organs of Species][^of2 Lycosa (continued) and OF Species of Pirata.
Fig.
1.
— Epigynum of L. carolinensis.
Fig.
2.
— Palpus of same.
Fig.
3.
— Epigynum of L. pratensis.
Fig.
4.
— Palpus of L. kochii.
Fig.
5.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
6.
— Palpus of L. gulosa.
Fig.
7.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
8.
— Palpus of P. marxi.
Fig.
9.
— Palpus of P. minutus.
Plate XXII.
— Copulatory Organs of Species of Pirata (continued).
Fig.
1.
— Palpus of P. febriadosa.
Fig.
2.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
3.
— Palpus of P. insularis.
Fig.
4.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
5.
— Palpus of P. aspirans.
Fig.
6.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
7.
— Epigjmum of P. minutus.
Fig.
8.
— Epigynum of P. marxi.
Fig.
9.
— Epigynum of P. montanus.
Plate XXIII.
— Copulatory Organs of Species of Sosippus and Ali,ocosa.
Fig.
1.
— Palpus of S. floridanus.
Fig.
2.
— Epigynum of same.
Fig.
3.
— Palpus of A. rugosa.
Fig.
4.
— Epigynum of A .
eragata.
Fig.
5.
— Epigvnum of ^4.
degesta (that of funerea similar).
(See also PI.
XX, fig.
7.)
DESCRIPTION OF TRACHYPTERUS SELENIRIS, A NEW SPECIES OF RIBBONFISH FROM MONTEREY BAY, CALIFORNIA.
BY .JOHN OTTERBEIN SNYDER.
Early in June of last year a large Ribbon-fish was found almost stranded on the beach at Monterey, California.
It was secured by Mr. Frederick A.
Wood worth, of Pacific Grove, and through his kindly interest sent to Stanford University for identification.
Its close resemblance to Trachyptcrus ishikawce^ of Japan was at once apparent, but a detailed examination was impossible at that time on account of the decayed condition of the specimen, the delicate silvery skin leaving the body at a touch of the finger, and the muscles almost parting from the bones.
After a long immersion in a mixture of strong alcohol and formalin, it may now be handled without further injury.
When the IVIonterey specimen is compared with the type of Trachypterus ishikaivce, certain differences appear which indicate that we have to deal with two distinct species, one of which, being unknown, is here described as Trachypterus seleniris.
The latter differe from T. ishikawce, the most nearly allied form, in having a more slender body, a smaller head, a smaller eye, and a weaker armature of the body.
The chief differences may be tabulated thus : T. seleniris.
T. ishikawce.
Length in millimeters 1520 1650 Head in length 9^ times.
8| times.
Depth near middle of body 11 " 7| " Depth at beginning of posterior third ISi " 14 " Diameter of eve 32 " 25 " Length of maxillary 25 " 22 " Trachypterus seleniris n. sp.
Head, 9^ in the lengtJi; depth, 9|; eye, 3| in head; dorsal rays, 168; pectoral, 9.
Length of head greater than its depth, about equal to depth of body in region of pectoral ; snout 3 in head ; width of interorbital space 2 in diameter of eye ; lower jaw projecting slightly beyond the upper ; ^ Trachypterus ishikaivce Jordan and Snyder, Journal of the College of Science, Imperial University, Tokyo, Vol.
XV, Pt.
2, p. .310, PI.
XVII, fig.
10; Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 45, p. 240, PI.
LXIII.
process of maxillary extending to a vertical through posterior border of eye; maxillary with a leaf -like flap a fourth of its length longer than diameter of eye, and with branched striations radiating from its point of attachment; opercular bones conspicuously striated.
Teeth weak; loosely attached ones on vomer, a row of 4 on maxillary, and 4 on each side of symphysis of lower jaw, the posterior of which is 2 times the length of the anterior.
Gill-rakers on first arch 5 -f10, provided with tooth-like setse on the inner side; filaments of pseud obranchise equal in length to those of gills.
Origin of dorsal above upper edge of gill-opening, the rays highest near beginning of posterior third of body where they are about l-J times the diameter of eye; anterior rays not separated from the posterior ones nor lengthened.
Length of pectoral slightly more than diameter of orbit.
A'^entral fins absent, or possibly represented by a mere filament, the place of insertion indicated by a spot on the breast below base of pectoral, where the skin, colored and sculptured, looks much like a pair of folded fins.
Caudal projecting upwards; short fragmentar}'filaments present; several small spines projecting downwards and backwards from the broadened end of the caudal peduncle.
Head naked; scales of body in the form of minute pads or plates containing a varying amount of bony matter; those on median ventral surface pointed, hard and white like enamel, covering a narrow ridge and lying in a single row near extremity of tail; among those on dorsal part of body, some are enlarged and arranged in vertical rows parallel with the interneurals.
Lateral line with small, quill-like tubes; beginning at upper edge of gill-opening, bending rather abruptly downwards and extending along body somewhat below the median line; not armed at any point.
Color bright silvery.
Type No.
13,080 Stanford University collection.
Called seleniris on account of a fancied resemblance of the long, flat, silvery body to the colorless lunar rainbow.
SOME POLYCH^TOUS ANNELIDS OF THE NORTHERN PACIFIC COAST OF NORTH AMERICA.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
This paper is a final report embodying the results of a study of all of the Polychceta submitted to me by the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries from the collections made by the steamer Albatross during the summer of 1903.
I'rom June 19 to August 24 of that year, while in the service of a special Commission appointed by the President to investigate the salmon fisheries of Alaska, the Albatross cruised northward along the coast from Port Townsend and Vancouver on the south, through part of the labyrinth of straits and passages which separate the islands of southeastern Alaska, as far as Shelekof Strait on the north and west, occupying meanwhile 112 dredging stations and a number of additional hydrographic and towing stations.
Some little shore collecting was also conducted.
During the cruise the vessel was under the command of the late Lieut.
Franklin Swift, U.S.N.
, to whose skill in handhng her must be largeh^ credited the large number of successful hauls made with trawl and dredge.
The extent of the collection and the generally excellent preservation of the annelids similarly attest the energy and ability which Prof. Harold Heath devoted to collecting the invertebrates, placed under his immediate charge.
In all 107 species of Polychseta are represented.
Of this number 41 species are considered to be previously und escribed.
The descriptions of only two of these, however, appear for the first time in this paper, the remaining 39 having been published, with the courteous approval of the Commissioner, Hon.
George M. Bowers, in these Proceedings for 1905, pp.
525-569, 846-860, and for 1906, pp.
217-260, together with plates illustrating important diagnostic features.
Supplementing the results of the study of the Albatross collections are added some notes on a few polychsetes in the collection of this Academy, gathered by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape^ and Unalaska, ' The northernmost point of that nnme.
Alaska; by Mr. A. E. Mcllhenny at Point Barrow, Alaska, and by Mr. George Dawson at Admiralty Inlet, Washington.
From this source are added 7 species not otherwise represented, 2 of them having been described as new in these Proceedings for 1906, pp.
352-355.
The total number of species considered is, therefore, 114.
After deducting the 43 new species, the 71 remaining may be classified from the point of view of geographical distribution as follows : 16, so far as known, are confined to the region under consideration, having been reported from some part of it, but not elsewhere, by previous writers; 12 occur to the southward along the coast of California, though most of them have already been recorded from Puget Sound or the Gulf of Georgia by Johnson and others; 8 have been described as occurring off the coast of Japan, and probably all of the latter have, as several are known to have, a wide distribution throughout the North Pacific; 4 are scattering; and the remaining 31 are well-known inhabitants of northern Europe, Greenland and the Arctic regions generall5^ Many of the latter are established circumpolar forms and have been already reported by Marenzeller or Wiren as belonging to the fauna of Bering Sea, or by others as occurring in the North Pacific.
In not a few cases it is evident that the individuals referred to such species differ in certain respects from their European representatives.
In a few species like TerebelUdes strcemii individuals of almost every colony present certain characteristic differences.
In the belief that the future will show that such wide-ranging species split up into man)'geographical subspecies just as land animals do, and that such subspecies cannot be satisfactorily discriminated until our knowledge of the distribution and variation of annelids shall have been very greatly augmented, it has been thought best to merely mention such differences, without giving to them nomenclatorial importance.
In this report it has been thought sufficient to the purpose to record only the general location of the stations, together with the depth of water and the character of the bottom.
The full data relating to each station, including its exact location, have been carefully compiled by Mr. Henry C. Fassett and published in the Report of the U. S. Fish Commission for 1903, pp.
123 to 13S.
Except in the two or three cases where it is stated otherwise, all types have been forwarded to the U. S. National Museum.
Cotypes, whenever such exist, are deposited at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The references given under each species are either to its original description or to later accounts fiu'iiished with good figures and synonymies.
SYLLIDiE.
Syllis armillaris (Mailer) Malmgren.
Nereis armillaris Mtillor, Zoologise danicse prodromus, 1776, p. 217, Syllis armillaris, Malmgren, Annulata Polychaeta, 1867, p. 42, Tab, VII, fig.
46, Syllis borealis Malmgren, ibid., p. 42, Tab.
VI, fig.
42, Typosyllis armillaris, Marenzeller, Ann.
K, K. Naturh, Hofmuseums,V(1890), p. 3.
Two small and immature examples 11 imn.
long agree well with the descriptions cited above and bear out fully Marenzeller's conclusions concerning the synonymy of the species and confirm his record of its occurrence in Bering Sea, One specimen is beautifully marked with dainty transverse lines of dark brown or black pigment; there being two lines across each segment as far as XV and beyond that point one line to the middle of the body.
The accessory tooth at the tip of the setae, which was overlooked by Malmgren, is almost always present.
The median tentacle has 15 joints, the paired tentacles 11 to 14 joints, the dorsal and ventral peristomial cirri 15 and 10 respectively^, the first dorsal cirrus (somite II) 18 joints, the middle dorsal cirri 9 to 14 joints, with the greatest diameter at the 4th or 5th, and the caudal cirri 14 joints.
In one specimen the gizzard extends from somite XIII to XXII.
Stations 4261, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, Alaska, July 24, 8^10 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, Alaska, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud, Syllis alternata new species.
The type and largest example (from Station 4228) is 30 mm, long with 160 segments, the posterior 28 of which are filled with eggsi without, however, exhibiting any sign of stolonization.
Other examples are from 16 to 20 mm.
long with from 116 to 125 segments.
The form is slender and the diameter nearly uniform, the body slightly widened to about XX, strongly arched above and flattened below.
The segments are all sharply defined and very short, usually 6 to 8 times as wide as long.
The prostomium (a) is about H times as wide as long, as shown in the figure of a cotype, but may be partly concealed beneath a fold of the peristomium.
Slight anterior and posterior contractions give the effect of prominently bulging sides.
The palpi are about twice the length of the prostomium, project prominently straight forward and are narrow distally.
Of the two pairs of small reddish-brown eyes, the anterior are larger, decidedly farther apart and crescentic or beanshaped as seen from above.
In the type specimen the two pairs of eyes are closer together but riot larger than in the smaller specimens.
324 [June^ All of the appendages are strongly moniliform.
The tentacles are rather stout but gently tapered.
The median arises between the eyes, is nearly twice the length of prostomiuni and palpi and consists of 22 to 30 joints.
The lateral tentacles arise from the antero-lateral face of the prostomiuni, are H times as long as the latter plus the palps and consist of about 20 joints.
The perjstomial cirri are quite similar in form, the dorsal consisting of about 20 to 25 joints and equalhng the median tentacle and the ventral consisting of 15 joints and equalling Syllis alternata — a, cephalic region from above, X 24; 6, parapodium X, X 32; c, parapodium LI, X 32; d, a moderately long-bladed seta from the dorsal part of parapodium X, X 600; e, a short-bladed seta from the ventral part of the same, X 600; /, ends of two acicula, X 600. the lateral tentacle in length.
The first dorsal cirrus is very long, especially on the type, in which it has about 35 joints.
• The parapodia (6 and c) are rather stout and short, blunt and broadly roimded distally.
Ventral cirri are slender, unjointed, little tapered and reach beyond the end of the neuropodium.
The dorsal cirri, on the other hand, are all very strongly moniliform and gently tapered throughout.
They are longest and nearly uniform on the anterior 15 segments, on which they nearly equal the diameter of the body.
Farther back they are alternately long and short, but never equal to the anterior ones.
From about 25 and 18 respectively in this region the number of joints becomes reduced at the caudal end quite rapidly until on the last but one remains.
In the several specimens the caudal cirri have from 16 to 25 joints.
No notopodial aciculum is present, but there are usually 3 neuropodials (/) with knobbed ends of various forms.
The neuropodial setae usually number about 10, disposed in 3 or 4 ranks.
They are colorless, homogeneous, and rather milky vitreous in appearance.
The rather stout stems have 4 or 5 minute teeth on the convexity of the enlarged ends (d and e) which are strongly oblique and possess a well-developed socket.
The appended blades of the dorsalmost setae (d) are quite long, some of those of the anterior segments exceeding by ^ the one figured.
The ventral and posterior ones are shorter (e), and some of the shortest are claw-like and little exceed the obliquity of the end of the shaft in length.
The end is strongly hooked, the accessory tooth well developeti , and the marginal fringe very fine.
In one specimen the protruded proboscis is a short and nearly cylindrical cup bearing 10 prominent soft marginal papillse.
In another the gizzard lies in somites IX to XXI, in still another in XIX to XXXVII.
The cuticle of this species is noticeably thick.
No trace whatever of color remains.
Station 4228 (type), vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponges; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4261, Dundas Bay, Ic}^ Strait, Alaska, 8-|-10 fathoms, gra}^ mud and rocks.
Syllis (Chaetosyllis) quaternaria Moore.
Syllis quaternaria Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
352-354 (text fig.).
This epitokous form of the type for which Malmgren established his genus Chcetosyllis is probably a true Syllis, though it cannot be correlated with any known non-sexual form.
The type and about a score of other specimens are No.
1091 of the Academy's collection.
They were taken by A. E. ^Icllhenny at the "surface in a lead four miles from shore" at Point Barrow, Alaska.
Pionosyllis magnifica Moore.
Plonosyllis magnifica Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
223-225, PI.
X, figs.
9-11.
This large and handsome syllid is represented by two specimens, one (the type) coming from Station 4219, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells; the other from Station 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, 50-54 fathoms, green mud.
Pionosyllis gigantea new species.
Three fragments of the anterior end, the largest comprising but 40 326 [June, segments, represent a species much larger than P. magnifica, from which it is distinguished by numerous characters.
The type, consisting of 40 segments, is 16 mm.
long, 4 mm.
in width of body and 7 mm.
between the tips of the setse.
The prostomium is nearly quadrate but slightly wider anteriorly, where the angles are rounded ; it is quite deeply cut into two lobes by a median cleft posteriorly.
The palpi are broad, flattened, broadly rounded at the ends and slightly exceed the prostomium in length ; at the base they are coalesced but diverge widely and curve ventrad distally.
The eyes of both pairs are reddish brown, small and round, the anterior very little larger than the posterior and directly in front of them or but little farther apart.
The dorsal cephalic appendages are imperfect on all of the specimens, but are evidently slender, tapering, smooth and flagelliform.
The middle tentacle is apparently about S\ times and the lateral tentacles about twice the length of the prostomium and palpi.
The former arises PlonosylUs gigantea — a, parapodium XXV, without setse, X 24; b, parapoclium L, without setae, X 24; c, a seta Avith blade of average length, from XXV, X 360. from the center of the prostomium, the latter from the anterior lateral margins.
The very short, slightly flaring proboscis bears 9 or 10 marginal papillse and apparently is unprovided with a strongly cuticular region.
The peristomium is extremely short above, where it is represented chiefly by a fold of integument which conceals the posterior lobes of the prostomium.
At the sides it is better developed and ventrally is crowded forward with the next two segments beneath the prostomium.
Its tentacular cirri are similar to the prostomial appendages, the dorsal 327 about 5 times the length of the head and the ventral only about twice that length.
Remaining somites are very short anteriorly, but from the twentieth onward are only 6 or 7 times as wide as long.
Dorsally they are strongly arched, ventrally flattened.
The intersegmental furrows are well marked, perhaps exaggerated by contraction of the longitudinal muscles.
All of the parapodia (a and h) are prominent and spring from the lowest level of the sides of the body.
Notopodia are entirely wanting, even the acicula appearing to be absent.
The neuropodia, on the other hand, are stout, those at the anterior end being nearly truncated, while the more posterior ones are bevelled from the dorsal or acicular angle.
All, however, possess slender and prominent presetal papillse at this angle.
Ventral cirri are remarkably large and swollen on the anterior parapodia and end bluntly, but farther back they become reduced in size and more slender and an annular constriction may separate the pointed end as a separate piece.
The most striking characteristic of the species is the great length of the anterior dorsal cirri which form a tangled mass at the sides of the body; they are so easily detached that few of them remain.
They arise from rather stout but short cirrophores (a) which are not sharply distinguished from the sides of the somites.
The styles are smooth, tapering and very slender toward the end, like whiplashes.
On one of the smaller specimens, which has 29 segments measuring 8 mm.
long, and a maximum body width of 3 mm., the dorsal cirrus of somite IV measures no less than 14 mm.
long.
The cirri are alternately longer and shorter, and after about the first ten those borne on the even numbered somites are regularly 2 to 2^ times the body width, while those on the odd numbered somites little exceed the body width.
Neuropodia are supported by 5 or 6 acicula which taper gradually almost to the end, where they are slightly curved and end abruptly in short conical points.
The setae (c) project rather prominently in usually 5 subacicular ranks of 3 or 4 each.
In any one parapodium they are remarkably uniform in length of blade, etc., but the blades become gradually shorter and wider and the shafts stouter from before backwards.
The shaft (c) exhibits but a slight distal enlargement, but is conspicuously and very unequally bifid, the larger and longer process ending quite acutely and being provided along the front with 4 or 5 obscure teeth.
The blades or appendages are rather long, strongly hooked and bifid at the end, and especially noteworthy for the coarseness of their marginal serrations.
With the exception of the prostomium and the dorsal cirri these annelids are much pigmented both above and below with chocolate brown.
Stations 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 68-107 fathoms, soft green mud and volcanic sand; 4228 (type), vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponges; 4300, off Shakan, Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska, 185-218 fathoms, rocks and mud.
Trypanosyllis gemmipara Johnson.
Trypanosyllis gemmipara Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, 1901, pp.
405', 406.
This species is represented in the collection by two specimens.
As one of them permits the verification of Johnson's very interesting discovery of collateral budding in this genus, it is unfortunate that the preservation is altogether too imperfect to enable me to describe the conditions fully.
The buds are all quite young and occur in several close tufts arranged in a transverse row about 35 segments anterior to the anus, and all on the ventral surface, where the integuments are split open at their place of origin.
Collateral budding of a type similar to that described by Johnson in T. geinmipara and T. nigens has recently been found by Tzuka in a Japanese species, T. misakiensis, also.
Taken only at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, Halibut Bank, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand.
PHYLLODO OID^, Phyllodoce citrina Malmgren.
Phyllodoce citrina Malmgren, Ofvers.
Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1865, p. 95.
Two poorly preserved specimens which agree closely with the descriptions of this species were taken at Afognak Island.
The eyes are much larger than shown in Malmgren's figures and both specimens are filled with eggs.
Marenzeller reports this species from Bering Sea.
Stations 4271, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, lH-20 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks; 4272, the same, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud.
Phyllodoce mucosa Oersted.
Phyllodoce mucosa, Oersted, Ann.
Dan.
Consp., p. 31.
A single much relaxed specimen of this species, 75 mm.
long, including the protruded proboscis, closely resembles the figures and descriptions of this species, but possesses a greater number of setae than is usually attributed to it.
This example is No.
281, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska.
Eulalia longioornuta Moore.
Eulalia longicornuta Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1906, pp.
222, 223, PI.
X, figs.
7, 8.
Two specimens found among serpulid tubes taken at the Quarantine Station dock near Port Townsend, Washington, on June 27, 1903.
The type is filled with eggs.
In both the color has faded to a nearly uniform olive with brown striations on the dorsal cirri.
Eulalia quadriooulata Moore.
Eulalia quadriooulata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
220, 221, Pl.X, figs.
4-6.
The two specimens, one of them a female filled with large eggs, were taken at Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, Washington, on June 27, 1903.
Notophyllum imbrioatum Moore.
Notoplv/llum imbricatum Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906 pp '>\7~ 219, PL X, figs.
1-3.
The type comes from Station 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 71-80 fathoms, gray mud; the cotype from Station 4269, Afognak Bay, 14-19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks.
POLYNOIDJE.
Hololepida magna Moore.
Hololepida magna Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
541-544, PI.
XXV, figs.
24-29.
A single example of this very large and remarkable species was taken at Station 4247 (not 4198 as erroneously recorded in the original description), Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, 95-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and broken shells.
It was taken from the interior of a large vase-shaped sponge, and according to the label the color during life was "creamy white changing to pinkish along dorsal surface."
Dr. Heath tells me that on the living worm the elytra were very easily detached and not coherent as after preservation; though of gelatinous consistency they were very brittle.
Halosydna pulchra (Johnson).
Polynoe pulchra Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
(3), I, (1897), p. 177.
Single specimens of this interesting species were taken at several Alaskan localities.
A few notopodial setse usually occur on most of the parapodia.
The specimens vary much in color, some being colorless, others with the elytra more or less completely speckled with brown, and one, found living commensally on a holothurian, is recorded on the label as having been poppy red on the dorsal surface, lighter beneath.
The cephalic appendages may possess a filamentous distal part.
An incomplete example filled with eggs, and taken at Station 4215, has the median tentacle twice as long as the lateral and is referred doubtfully to this species.
Stations 4219, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, from starfish; 4222, same region, 39 fathoms, gray sand and broken shells, from holothurian (Siichopus californica) ; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud, young; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud, one very beautiful specimen and one smaller and colorless one, both from the ten-armed starfish (Solasler decemradiata).
Halosydna lordi Baird.
Halosydna lordi Baird, Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
London, VIII, (1SG5), p. 190.
A single imperfect specimen without elytra represents this species.
In the same bottle is an arm of a starfish {Luidia columbice Gray) , upon which it was presumably commensal.
Nanaimo Bay, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 12 fathoms, on fish line.
Halosydna insignis Bair.l.
Halosydna insignis Baird, Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
London, VIII, (1865), p. 188.
Johnson in his paper on the Polychaeta of Puget Sound has already noted the occurrence of this species as far north as Kadiak Island, Johnson also describes in the Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
for 1897 some most interesting variations in relation to habitat.
Of the several specimens in this collection scarcely two are alike in color, and they also differ in the extent to which the back is covered by the elytra, the tuberculation of the elytra and the shape of the end of the dorsal cirri — whether abruptly terminating in a short filament or not.
None of the specimens is recorded as commensal.
Union Bay, Vancouver Island, B. C. ; Port Townsend, Washington, at Quarantine Dock; Stations 4209, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, Washington, 24-25 fathoms, rocks, coarse sand and shells; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells.
Lepidonotus robustus Moore.
Lepidonotus robustus Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
544-546, PI.
XXXVI, figs.
32-35.
The only known specimen of this noteworthy species was taken from the shell of a hermit crab at Station 4291, Shelikof Strait, 48 to 65 fathoms, bottom of blue mud, sand and gravel.
Lepidonotus caeloris Moore.
Lepidonotus cdloris Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, pp.
412-414, PI.
XXIII, fig.
12.
This species, originally described from specimens dredged off the coast of Japan, proves to be one of the most abundant and generally distributed species of Polychaeta throughout the region covered by these explorations.
It represents in the North Pacific the widely spread L. squamatus of the Atlantic, but is quite distinct from that species.
The detached submarginal t\ift of cilia that is so conspicuous and constant a feature on the elytra of the latter species is quite absent in the former, in which, also, the marginal flask-shaped sense organs are very much fewer and smaller.
The outer surface of the elytra is less hairy and beat's more numerous and rather smoother papillae.
]\Iuch variation is evident in the size, number, arrangement and sculpturing of the papilla?
and in the color of the elytra, some specimens being nearly black, others reddish brown, and still others orange or yellow.
The neuropodial setse are quite distinct from those of L. squamatus, being more slender, less strongly hooked, more extensively ctenate and in a greater number of rows.
All of these differences are most apparent in the adults, especially when individuals of equal size are compared.
The young of L. cccloris much more closely resemble the Atlantic species, especially in the greater hairiness of the elytra, and it seems not improbable that the small specimens of L. squamatus recorded by Johnson from Puget Soimd and California and by Marenzeller from Japan may be of this species.
It is also not improbable that intermediate forms may be found to connect the two in the Arctic regions, in which case L. cantoris would become a well-marked subspecies.
Represented in the collections by a greater number of individuals than any other species, Lepidonotus caloris was found at many points between Vancouver and Kadiak Islands, at depths ranging from 18 to 313 fathoms and on most kinds of bottom, though naturally most often on mud.
It was most abundant on muddy bottoms in the Gulf of Georgia, on a gravelly bottom with sponges at Station 4228, near Naha Bay in the Behm Canal, and on a bottom of rock and broken shells at Station 4253 in Stephens Passage, Alaska.
The stations at which Lepidonotus c(eloris was taken are 4192, 4193, 4197, 4198, 4227, 4228, 4234, 4235, 4239, 4245, 4253, 4258 and 4274.
Polynoie tuta Grube.
Polynoe tuta Grube, Arch.
f.
Naturges., XXI, 18.55, Bd.
I, p. 82.
Harmothoe tuta Johnson, Proc.
Ros.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
394, 6.
Of the three examples of this species in the collection, the one from Fort Rupert agrees exactly with the description given by Johnson ; the other two have the cephahc appendages and the dorsal cirri longer and more slender, the eyes farther back, and the neuropodial setse more slender.
All of them exhibit marked asymmetry in the arrangement of the elytra.
Fort Rupert, shore of Union Bay, Vancouver Island, B.
C, and Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green naud and fine sand; 4197, same locality, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand.
Polynoe fragilis (Baird) Johnson.
Lepidonotus fragilis Baird, Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lon., 1863, p. 108.
Polynoe fragilis, Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad., Vol.
I, Zoology, pp.
179-181.
Three complete examples from near Port Townsend alone represent this most interesting commensalistic species.
The margins of the elytra are frequently more complexly folded than is indicated by Johnson.
Dr. Heath's label states that the color in life is ''entire surface of body light yellow, the elytra allowing the color of the body, to show through."
It is stated that the specimens Avere taken from Asterias sp.
The resemblance of these worms to the arms of the starfish is most remarkable and is a subject well worth careful and detailed study by someone on the ground.
Station 4222, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 39 fathoms, gray sand and broken shells.
Hermadion trunoata Moore.
Harmathoe fruncata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, pp.
272-274, PL XIV, figs.
21-28.
This species was originally described from the anterior end of a specimen in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, at that time supposed to have been collected in Greenland, but now believed to have been taken by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska.
It is well represented in this collection from the more southern stations.
The completeness of some of the examples permits the addition of the following notes to the original description.
A length of 80 mm.
is attained, the posterior region of the body being slender and tapering.
There are 63 segments with 15 pairs of elytra, borne on segments II, IV, V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, XXIII, XXVI, XXIX and XXXII, and leaving the posterior part of the body unprotected except by the bristling setse.
The cephalic peaks are rudimentary, being coalesced with the bases of the lateral tentacles, and the anterior eyes are farther forward than in the type.
The style of the median tentacle is slender, about twice the length of the prostomium and has a scarcely perceptible subterminal enlargement.
The lateral tentacles are very short, the short, conical styles with their terminal filaments scarcely exceeding the ceratophores.
The extended palpi taper regularly to the end, are slender and 7-8 times the prostomial length.
Anterior elytra are circular, the others broadly elliptical, with weak attachment laterad of the center.
Their texture is soft and flexible, the surface smooth and punctate and entirely lacking cilia or papillae of any sort, but with the margin slightly thickened anrl upturned.
The inner half is brown, the outer wliite in agreement with the color of the body.
Dorsal cirri are rather stout with prominent cirrophores and the styles reach beyond the tips of the parapodia.
They taper regularly to a subterminal enlargement, beyond which is a short filament.
Posterior cirri are longer and more slender and the anal cirri are stouter and very long, equalling the last 9 somites.
Usually but one anal cirrus is fully developed.
A broad rich brown stripe marks the dorsum, being more or less broken in the middle of the body and spreading over the entire back posteriorly where a median white line sometimes divides it.
Dorsal cephalic appendages and dorsal cirri chiefly brown with subterminal and terminal white rings All other parts, including entire venter, white.
Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fuie sand; 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 68-107 fathoms, sticky green mud and volcanic sand ; 4208, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 83-99 fathoms, rocky; 4216, same region, 79-101 fathoms, rocky ; 4227, \'icinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand.
Eunoe depresaa Moore.
Eunoe depressa Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1905, pp.
536-538, Pis.
XXXIV, figs.
17, 18; XXXV, figs.
19, 20.
Besides a fragment labelled Union Bay, B.
C, 6-22-'03, this species is represented by specimens from Stations 4261 (type), Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 8^10 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4270, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 14-1 9 fathoms, hard gray sand and rock.
The latter is labelled ''Hermit crab, messmate," and many of the papillae on the elytra bear 2 or 3 spines.
I also refer provisionally to this species under the name of var.
mammillata a specimen which may represent a distinct but related species.
It measures 20 mm.
long and has a form similar to but somewhat less broad and depressed than typical depressa.
The palpi are 22 barely twice the length of the prostoniium, but the other cephalic appendages are longer and much more slender than in the typical form.
The median tentacle is about 3J times and the lateral tentacles nearly If times the length of the prostomiimi.
The cirrophores of the dorsal cirri reach to the end of the notopodia and the slender styles possess long fihform tips which reach to the tips of the longest seta\ The elytra are thimier and more membranous and their shape more ovate-reniform.
They also have larger, firmer, and more mammilif orm papillffi.
But the chief distinction is a strong fringe of cilia along the outer margin of each of the elytra.
The general color is reddish brown and the elytra bluish pearl with the larger papillae orange brown.
The label states that this specimen was taken from the branchial chamber of an 11-pound crab.
Station 4276, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, Alaska, 22-25 fathoms, fine sand and mud.
Harmothoe imbricata (Linn.)
Malmgren.
Harmothoe imbricata, Mcintosh, Monograph of British AnneUds, Part II, 1900, pp.
314-327.
All of the specimens of this ubiquitous species, which is already well known from the North Pacific, are of small size, the largest being 30 mm.
long and most of them much smaller.
They present the usual color varieties seen in Atlantic Coast specimens, some being more or less strongly mottled, others having a median light or dark brown band of greater or less breadth.
The marginal papillae on the elytra may be numerous or nearly absent.
The two specimens from Kilisut Harbor have the smooth tips of the notopodial setae longer than usual.
Kilisut Harbor, near Port Townsend, Washington; and Stations 4269, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 14^19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks; 4271, same region, 11^-20 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks ; 4275, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, Alaska, 35-36 fathoms, green mud and fuie sand ; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud.
Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson.
Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., (3), I (Zoology), pp, 182, 183.
Three examples referred to this species indicate that it is subject to considerable variation.
The examination of an extensive series of the Harmothoes from this region will be necessary to estabhsh the exact status of these variants.
Stations 4205, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, Alaska, 15-26 fathoms, rocks and shells, a single specimen which agrees with Johnson's description and figures accurately except that the elytra, although bearing large papillse, lack distinct marginal areas; 4260, Dimdas Bay, Icy Strait, 8^21 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks, one similar to the last but more distinctly colored; 4259, same region, 21-78 fathoms, gray sand, broken shells and rocks, a small example with well-marked marginal areas on the elytra but few large papillse and with the intersections of the ridges between the areas sometimes produced into large, coarse cilia.
Lagisca multisetosa Moore.
Lagiscn ^nultlsetosa Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1902, pp.
267-269.
PI.
XIV, figs.
29-36.
This is another species which was originally incorrectly attributed to Greenland, the type locality being almost certainly Icy Cape, Alaska.
Like Hermadioa truncata it is rather plentiful in the collections from the Gulf of Georgia to Behm Canal, being represented, mostly by fragmentary specimens, in the collections from the following : Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft green nuid; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B.
C, G8-107 fathoms, soft green mud and volcanic sand; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathonx^;, soft green mud ; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponges.
The species appears to be especially common at the last enumerated station and several fragments taken here depart quite widely from the typical form in the character of the elytra.
These are designated as variety papillata, characterized as follows : The elytra bear more numerous, larger and differently shaped soft papillae and very much fewer and smaller hard conical papillae; and instead of the numerous long cilia on the exposed surface and near the outer margin of the elytra of the typical form, these bear only a few very much shorter cilia with thickened ends.
Lagisca rarispina (Sars) Malmgren.
Laqisca rarispina (Sars) Malmgren, Of vers.
Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh 1S65 p 65.
^ » .FOccurring quite plentifully in the collections from the more northerly points in the Alaskan Gulf, where it apparently largely replaces L. multisetosa, this species is represented by two varieties which are, however, connected by intermediates and apparently occur indiscriminately together at the same stations.
The difference is in the presence or absence of the soft marginal papillae on the elytra.
On some examples these are very numerous, especially on anterior elytra, and have exactly the elongated form and the arrangement exhibited by typical representatives of the species from Greenland and other North Atlantic localities.
Others have perfectly smooth elytra, altogether lacking these appendages.
Between these two extreme categories, into which most of the specimens fall, are some individuals intermediate in either the number or size of the appendages or in both.
Some have the papilhB very short and present on many elytra and others very few papillae of normal or reduced size.
One bears a single papillse on one elytron and another half a dozen papillae distributed among three elytra.
Stations 4193, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4198, Hahbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4219, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, Washington.
16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand, broken shells; 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-181 fathoms, dark green mud — a single example from each of these stations; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud — plentiful at the last two stations; 4263, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 6J-9 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud.
Antinoe maorolepida Moore.
Antinoe macrohpida Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
538-541, PL XXXV, figs.
21-23.
Antinoe macrolepida is plentiful at the more northerly stations, but occurs as far south as the Gulf of Georgia.
It is represented in the collections from the following stations: 4192, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4230, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4236, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 147-205 fathoms, rocks and coarse sand; 4237, same region, 194-198 fathoms, green mud; 4264 (type and several other specimens), off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud; 4299, off Shakan, Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska, 153-218 fathoms, sand and rocks.
Gattyana amondseni (Malmgren).
Nychia amondseni Malmgren, Annulata Polj'chEeta, etc., 1867, pp.
5 and 6.
Three specimens taken at northern stations agree very closely with Malmgren's description and figures of this species.
The neuropodial setae are rather more slender and the bifid papillae on the elytra rather more deeply cleft.
Stations 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-36 fatlioms, green mud and fine sand.
Gattyana ciliata Moore.
Gattyana ciliata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, pp.
263-266, Tl.
XIII, figs.
14-19.
The type (No.
28, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.)
was taken at Icy Cape, and a single example in this collection comes from Station 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud.
Gattyana cirrosa (Pallas) Mclnto*.
Gattyana cirrosa Mcintosh, Monograph of British Annelids, Part II, (1900), pp.
285-291.
The only example taken is from Station 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud, Gattyana senta Moore.
Gafti/ana senta Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, pp.
259-263, PI.
XIII, figs.
1-13.
This species, the type of which came from Icy Cape and is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, appears to be quite plentiful on the muddy bottoms of the Gulf of Georgia and equally so on a gravelly bottom at Station 4228 in Behm Canal.
Most of the examples have lost most of the elytra and are otherwise mutilated, but one specimen permits the description of the posterior elytra which were lacking on the type.
They are nearly circular in outline and of smaller size and softer texture than the anterior elytra, but the most striking difference is in the very great length of the terminal branches of the dendritic spines of the posterior margin, the number of forkings of which is, however, less than on anterior scales.
Stations 4191, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 54-89 fathoms, fine dark sand, mud and rocks; 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4197, same locality, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4198, same locality, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge, Melaenis loveni Malmgren.
Melcenis Loveni Malmgren, Ofvers.
Kong.
Vet.-.\kad.
Forh., 1S65, pp.
78, 79, Three examples collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska are in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy, No.
279, SIGALEONIDiB.
Pholoe minuta (Fabricius) Oersted.
Pholoe minuta (Fabricius), Mcintosh, Monograph of British AnneHds, Part II, (1900), pp.
437-442.
A perfect example nearly an inch in length was taken at Station 4272, at Afognak Ba}^, Afognak Island, Alaska, in 12-17 fathoms, on a bottom of sticky mud; and a few fragments of a very small individiual probably of this species from a bottle containing a Halosydna insignis from Port Townsend, Washington.
Peisidice aspera Johnson.
Peisidice aspera Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., (3), (Zool.
), Vol.
I, pp.
184, 185.
Single examples of this curious little polychffite occur at three rather widely separated stations.
The elytra are very stiff and rigid, apparently due to a hard brownish secretion which is deposited in layers, thus giving the appearance of concentric lines of gro\\i:h. Sand grains adhere to and become imbedded in this substance, especially along the ridge of the scale.
This same secretion renders the body brittle, but no sand grains are borne on this region of these specimens.
The hairs of the marginal fringes are very unequal, the longest being as much as ^ of the long diameter of the scale.
Many of the elytra are marked with dark brown central spots.
Stations 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 fathoms, rock and broken shells.
APHRODITID^.
Aphrodita japonica Marenzeller.
Aphrodita japonica Marenzeller, Denks.
K. Akad.
Wissensch., Wien, XLI, (1879),pp.
Ill, 112.
From the Gulf of Georgia to the head of Behm Canal this species is common and especially so wherever muddy bottoms occur.
These specimens differ in no respect from those taken in the Albatross dredgings off the coast of Japan in 1900.
The neuropodial setae are unusually prominent and slender and when young their tips are incased in a densely hairy sheath, which later wears away, leaving the point smooth.
The notopodial setae are completely imbedded in the felt and are seldom visible.
They are slender, soft, curved, pale brown, roughened toward the end and have the tip hooked.
Generally the color is very dark — almost black — and the felt is dull, probably the result of staining by some constituent of the mud in which they live.
The palpi are white.
The specimens vary in length from 14 to 80 mm.
Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, stickygreen mud and fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4224, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 156-166 fathoms, dark green mud; 4225, same region, 149-181 fathoms, dark green mud; 4230, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4231, same region, 82-113 fathoms, green mud and fragments of slate; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 fathoms, rock and coarse sand; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, green mud; 4238, same region, 229-231 fathoms, mud and rocks.
Aphrodita negligens Moore.
Aphrodita negligens Moore, Proc.
Acad, Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
526-529, PI.
XXXIV, figs.
1, 2; XXXV, fig.
31.
A single large example 60 mm, long, agreeing exactly with the type, was taken at Station 4205, off Port Townsend, Washington, in 15-26 fathoms, on a bottom of rock and shells.
The body cavity is filled with egg-strings.
Aphrodita parva Moore.
Aphrodita parva Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
529-532, PI.
XXXIV, figs.
3-7, This small and very distinct species is known only from two specimens taken at Station 4194, in the Gulf of Georgia, in 111 to 170 fathoms, on a bottom of soft green mud.
EUPHROSYNID^.
Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore.
Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore, Proc, Acad, Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1905, pp.
532-534, PL XXXIV, figs.
8-12.
This species, which belongs to the group including E. horealis Oersted and E. longisetosa Horst, was taken from the Gulf of Georgia to Behm Canal, in depths ranging from 18 to 188 fathoms.
It occurs in the collections from the following stations: 4193 (type), Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fme sand; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rock and broken shells.
Euphrosyne hortensis Moore.
Euphrosyne hortensis Moore, Proc, Acad, Nat, Sci.
Pliila., 1905, pp.
534-536, PI, XXXIV, figs.
13-16, Much less common than the last, this species was taken at Stations 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; and 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand.
The latter is the type locality.
Euphrosyne arctica Johnson.
Euphrosyne arctica Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci., (3), Zoology, Vol.
I, p. 159.
A small individual 10 mm.
long is believed to represent this species, the original description of which was based upon a probably imperfect and much contracted specimen.
There are, however, some points of difference between the two specimens, as the following brief description indicates.
The form is strongly depressed, about equally rounded anteriorly and posteriorly, the somites munbering 21, strongly marked and well developed throughout.
The subanal lobes or cirri are large, thick and fleshy.
The dorsal smooth field is about \ the entire width and not subdivided into areas.
A black spot or group of spots occurs on the posterior part of each segment behind the second gill.
The caruncle is short and broad , reaching from the anterior margin of II to the posterior margin of IV, and consists entirely of a rather high, thick crest, little free behind.
The median tentacle equals the caruncle in length and the stout basal article, which furnishes | of its length, nearly equals the caruncle in thickness.
The terminal piece is filamentous.
The dorsal eyes are very large, elongated and black.
The ventral eyes are coalesced and the ventral paired tentacles minute.
The dorsal cirri are very long, much exceeding the length of the caruncle, slender and tapered.
The median cirrus arises between the second and third gills and, like the ventral cirrus, is stouter than tlie dorsal cirrus and equally long.
Five pairs of gills occur on the middle region.
They are arbusculate and spreading, with some 30 or more slender, lanceolate terminal twigs formed by as many as 5 or 6 irregular dichotomous divisions.
The setae agree exactly with Johnson's figures.
Station 4234, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 45 fathoms,, gray mud and rocks.
ALCIOPID^.
Callizona angelini (Kinberg) Apstein.
Callizona Angelini (Ivinberg) Apstein, Die Alciopiden und Tomopteriden der Plankton Expedition, luel, 1900, pp.
18, 19.
The addition of this species to the list of Alaskan poly chutes becomes possible through the study of the contents of salmon stomachs submitted by Dr. H. M. Smith.
The salmon were taken at Yes Bay, Alaska, on July 27 and 28, 1905, and contained a large number of remains.
Many of the worms were already completely disintegrated^ but the anterior ends of some were sufficiently intact to remove any reasonable doubt of the correctness of this identification.
The only respect in which they differ from the published descriptions is in the presence of as many as 4 stout setae in the first parapodium (somite IV).
A noteworthy characteristic of the species is the considerable length of the cirriform appendage of the parapodia.
Anteriorly the dorsum is a diluted chocolate brown, the surface of the eye cups, the prostomium and a transverse band across each segment being still darker.
A brown spot at the base of each dorsal cirrus appears to continue for the entire length of the body.
The large numbers in which these worms occur in the salmon stomachs and the evidences that they were filled with sperm and ova indicates that at sexual maturity they must swim in great shoals at the surface.
Originally described by Kinberg from the China Sea, this species has since been twice taken in the Atlantic Ocean, but until now has not been reported from the Pacific.
HESIONID^.
Podarke pugettensis Johnson.
Podarke -pugettensis Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, 1901, pp.
397, 398.
This species was taken only in the region of the type locality and probably does not extend much farther northward.
Nanaimo Bay, Vancouver Island, B.
C, taken from a starfish (Tuidia) brought up on a fish line; Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend, Washington; Station 4218, Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, on starfish {Tuidia).
NEPHTHYDID^.
Nephthys coeca (Fabricius) Oersted.
Nephthys coeca, Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, pp.
588-617.
The presence of this circumpolar species throughout a great extent of both sides of the North Pacific is already well known.
Typical examples occur in the collections from the following stations : 4230, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4236, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 147-205 fathoms, rocks and coarse sand; 4240, junction of Clarence Strait and Behm Canal, 248-256 fathoms, coral.
Nephthys ciliata (Muller) Rathke.
Nephthys ciliata, Malmgren, Ofvers.
Kgl.
Vet.-Alvad.
Forh., 1865, p. 104.
Whether or not Wiren was correct in considering this and the preceding to be variants of the same species, the considerable amount of material which I have examined exhibits no evidence of intergradation and the two forms are therefore listed separately.
It is noteworthy that they were taken on bottoms of quite different character.
Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud ; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud; 4286, Chinak Bay, Alaska, 57-63 fathoms, green mud and rock.
Nephthys malmgreni Theel.
Nephthys longisetosa Malmgren, Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1865, p. 106; non Oersted.
Nephthys malmgreni Theel, Kgl.
Sv.
Vet.
Akad.
Handl., 1879, No.
3, p. 26.
Although recorded at various points in the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans this species has not previously been taken in the Pacific.
It occurs in the collections from the vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, only, at Stations 4236, 147-205 fathoms, rock and coarse sand, and 4238, 229-231 fathoms, rocks and mud.
Nephthys assimilis Malmgren.
Nephthys assimilis Malmgren, Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1865, p. 105.
No representatives of N. assimilis occur among the material dredged by the Albatross, but the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia contains several examples which agree exactly with the descriptions given by Malmgren and Theel, and which were collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp in 5 fathoms at Icy Cape, Alaska.
NEREIDS.
Nereis pelagica Linnaeus.
Nereis pelagica Linn.
'Bus, Sys.
Nat., Ed.
X, p. 654.
Although quite common and represented from nearly the entire region covered by these collections, the individuals are of smaller size than occur on the Atlantic side of the continent.
Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4209, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington; 4247, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and broken shells; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand.
At Port jMcArthur, on August 23, two small heteronereids were taken at the surface.
Also collection of Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., several collected at Unalaska by Dr. Sharp.
Nereis procera Ehlers.
Nereis procera Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, p. 557.
This little known species is represented by a single incomplete specimen taken at the type locality in the Gulf of Georgia.
Station 4193, Halibut Bank, Guif of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand.
Nereis paucidentata Moore.
Nereis paucidentata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, pp.
430, 431, PI.
XXIV, figs.
28-30.
Originally described from specimens dredged in Bering Sea, the present collections show that this species is rather widely distributed along the northern portions of the east side of the Pacific also.
At the same time they permit of the verification of the characters originally attributed to the species.
Several specimens with the probosces protruded exliibit paragnaths exactly like those of the type, except that groups III and IV vary somewhat, being provided with 3 to 5 denticles arranged in various patterns.
One had 5 teeth arranged in a perfect quincunx.
The basal ring of one specimen bears 4 cones at VII, Stations 4198, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud ; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4239, junction of Clarence Strait and Behm Canal, 206-248 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks, one specimen from this station is a large female bursting with eggs, 80 mm.
long and having 120 segments; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4300, off Shakan, Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska, 185-218 fathoms, rock and mud.
Nereis cyclurus Harrington.
Nereis cyclurus Harrington, Trans.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., XVI, 1897, p. 214.
This remarkable and interesting species should probably be separated generically from the above.
In only one case is it stated that the specimens were taken from a hermit crab (E. wpagurus armatus), in the shell of which this annelid usually lives as a commensal.
The finding of a male heteronereis is of interest, especially as it was taken on the shell of a hermit crab.
After an elaborate study of this species Plarrington records his failure to find a male, and states his belief that males are strictly pelagic in habit.
Stations 4201, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 138-145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken shells, a small specimen, " general color bright pink, in delicate tube composed of mucus attached to sponge"; 4218, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, 1 ordinary form and 1 heteronereis (male) from shell of hermit crab; 4220, same region 16-31 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells.
Nereis (Alitta) vexillosa Grube.
Nereis vexillosa Grube in Middendorff, Reise in Siberiens, etc., II, 18-51, p. 4.
Nereis vexillosa, Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 399.
On the Pacific this species represents the Nereis limbata, so abundant along much of the Atlantic coast of North America.
It, however, reaches a larger size.
As but little shore collecting was done it is not represented in the collection from many points.
Taylor Bay, Gabriola Island, Gulf of Georgia; Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, and the beach near Shakan, Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska; collection Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Admiralty Inlet, Puget Sound, Washington, by George Dawson.
Nereis (Alitta) virens Sars.
Nereis virens, Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 398.
I have not given very close attention to the specific likeness or distinction of the Atlantic N. virens and the Pacific A", hrandti, but so far as comparisons have been made they appear to confirm Johnson's view that the two are identical.
Being chiefly a shore lover like the last it is not well represented in this collection.
Taylor Bay, Gabriola Island, B. C., 11 specimens varying from 9 to 18 inches long.
Many are in regeneration posteriorly and the number of segments appear to exceed the average attained by Atlantic specimens.
Union Baj'', Alaska, a splended example unfortunately incomplete, but which in life must have exceeded 2 feet in length.
The tentacular cirri are very short and thick.
Also one in the Academy of Natural Sciences, collected by George Dawson at Admiralty Inlet, Washington.
Platynereis agassizi (Ehlers).
Nereis agassizi Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1868, p. 542.
It seems probable that the Japanese specimens referred to N dumerilii by Marenzeller belong to this closely related but perfectly distinct species.
A small heferonereid resembling that of the Atlantic P. megalo-ps was taken at Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend, on June 27.
Kilisut Harbor and Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend, Washington.
Stations 4219.
Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Washington, 16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud.
EUNICID^.
Eunice kobiensis Mcintosh.
Eunice kobiensis Mcintosh, Challenger Reports, ZooL, Vol.
XII, pp.
278-280.
Several specimens of Eunice exhibiting considerable variation inter se, but presenting a mean very close to this species originally taken off the coast of Japan, were collected in Alaskan waters.
The largest individual is 90 mm.
long and 5 mm.
wide, being therefore larger than those described by Mcintosh.
The maximum raunber of branchial pinnae exhibited by different specimens varies from 5 to 8 according to the size, and the gills begin on V or VI and end at from XLV to LVIII.
The characters of the setae and acicula are very constant and differ in no respect from those assigned to Eunice kobiensis.
On the other hand the ja^vs vary considerably and the large paired plates may exhibit a number of teeth either greater or less than is shown in Mcintosh's figure.
The cephalic appendages generally average shorter and the peristomium longer than on the Japanese specimens, and the ventral cirri are larger than is usual in this genus.
Stations 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rock and broken shells; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud.
The last recorded specimen is stated to have come from a "tube 11 inches long, formed of small stones and attached to a slab of slate," ONUPHIDiE.
Nothria iridescens Johnson.
Nothria iridescens Johnson, Proc, Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 408.
This species was originally described by Johnson from a single specimen lacking the caudal end which was dredged by Prof. Herdman at Victoria, B.
C, It proves to be abundant on muddy bottoms ih the Gulf of Georgia and much less common northward to Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, The presence of a posterior end permits the completion of Johnson's description.
After gradual reduction in length the branchiae are totally wanting from the last 30 somites.
The pygidium is provided with a thickened circumanal welt, from the ventral side of which arise 4 cirri in a close tuft.
The 2 median are about ^ longer than the lateral pair and correspondingly stouter.
Besides hooded crochets (of which Johnson's figure shows one foreshortened) and capillary setae, posterior segments contain a tuft of the usual expanded pectinate setse.
All three kinds continue to the last setigerous segment.
A large number of tubes differ from the one described by Johnson.
They are 5 to 6 inches long and about 4 mm.
in diameter, composed of a tough, membranous, mucoid lining covered with a thick coating of silt, often arranged in two distinct layers of quite different composition.
Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. C., 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud, a great many tubes; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 42 6, same region, 101-123 fathoms, gray-green nuid, coarse sand and shells.
Nothria geophiliformis Moore.
Nothria geophiUjormis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, pp.
445448.
A single example from Station 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud.
LUMBRINERID^.
Lumbrineris heteropoda Marenzeller.
Lunibriconereis heteropoda Marenzeller, Denks.
Kaiserl.
Akad.
Wissensch.
Wien, 1879, Abth.
2, pp.
138, 139.
A species of Lumbrineris widely and generally distributed over the field covered by these explorations is assigned with much hesitation as above.
The variability of the jaws and the form of the prostomium in species of this genus, taken with the fact that the exact region from which the parapodia described or figured for many species have been selected is often not indicated, renders identification of representatives of this genus very difficult.
The smaller examples resemble L. heteropoda in every respect, but the larger ones have the prostomium shorter and more broadly rounded; the jaws vary in respect to the form and number of teeth on the individual plates and probably in a greater divergence of the lobes of the posterior parapodia.
The j^resence of a tuft of very long slender winged seta?
in the lower part of the supraacicular tuft of the middle parapodia of some specimens is also a noteworthy character which may indicate specific separation from L. heteropoda.
One fine example from Station 4251 is 380 mm.
long, 7 mm.
wide, and has 355 segments.
It is filled with nearly mature eggs.
Stations 4201, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 138-145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken shells, 4227, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 fathoms, rocks and coaree sand; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, green mud; 4240, junction of Clarence Strait and Behm Canal, 248-256 fathoms, coral ; 4241, same region, 245-238 fathoms, green nmd ; 4251, Stephens' Passage, Alaska, 198 fathoms, rocky; 4252, same region, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand.
Also a doubtful specimen in the Academy of Natural Sciences, collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska.
Ninoe simpla Moore.
Ninoe simpla Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
547-549, PI.
XXXV, fig.
30; XXXVI, figs.
39-44.
This very distinct species resembles N. nigripes Vorrill in general appearance, but differs widely from that and other species in having the gills simple instead of palmate and in the presence of a small median tubercle on the prostomium.
It was taken at Stations 4235, 4236 and 4238, in the vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, in 130-231 fathoms, on muddy bottoms.
STAURONEREID^.
Stanronereis annulatus Moore.
Stauronereis annulatus Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1906, pp.
225-227, PI.
X, figs.
12, 13; XI, figs.
18-22.
Taken only at Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, Washington, June 27, 1903.
GLYOERID^.
Glycera nana Johnson.
Glycera nana Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 411.
Although most of the specimens of this species were taken not far from the type locality in Puget Sound, two were found on the Alaskan beaches.
Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, GuK of Georgia, B.
C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; also beach at Port Ellis and near Shakan, Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska.
Glycera tesselata Grube.
Glycera tesselata Grube, Arch.
f.
Naturges., 1863, I, p. 41. '
Two small and one large specimens (the latter a fragment measuring 5 mm.
across) of this genus are believed to belong to this species, which has not hitherto been recorded at attaining so great a size.
Station 4197, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand.
GONIADID^.
Glycinde wireni Arwidsson.
Glycinde ivireni Ar-nidsson, Bergens Museums Aarbog, 1899, No.
11, np.
53, 54.
Tliis species, taken during the voyage of the Vega at various points in the Arctic Ocean and Bering Sea, ranges as far south as the Gulf of Georgia.
Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, ^^ancouver Island, B.
C, S9-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, Gulf of Georgia, Halibut Bank, 111-170 fathoms, sticky green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern -Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4231, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 82-113 fathoms, green mud and slate fragments; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud.
The last specimen is a ripe male, distended with sperm.
Goniada annulata Moore.
Goniada annulata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
549-553, PI.
XXXVI, figs.
45-48.
Most of the specimens are mature and have the posterior region distended with eggs or sperm.
There is a distinct tendency to increase in size in correspondence with the location of the station from south northward.
The species is quite common from Halibut Bank, in the Gulf of Georgia, northward to Chatham Strait.
Stations 4197, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B.
C, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, green mud; 4238, same region, 229-231 fathoms, mud and rocks; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud; 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud.
AMPHARETIDiB.
Ampharete arctioa Malmgren.
Ampharete arctioa Malmgren, Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1865, p. 364.
Wiren has already recorded this species from Bering Sea, Otherwise it is unknown from the Pacific region.
Except that their paleoli have more produced points than Mahngren figures, these specimens agree exactly with his account.
A portion of a tube is 6.5 mm, in diameter, with a lumen of 4 mm.
and very fragile walls of fine silt.
Stations 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-181 fathoms, dark green mud ; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, I.ynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud.
Amphicteis alaskensis Moore.
Amphicteis alaskensis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
846-849, PI.
XLIV, figs.
1-4.
Taken at Stations 4274, Alitak Bay, at a depth of 35-41 fathoms on a bottom of green mud with some fine sand, and 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud.
Amphicteis glabra Moore.
Amphicteis glabra Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
849-851, PI.
XLIV, figs.
5-8.
A small portion of a tube is peculiarly elastic and springy and is covered with a la3^er of brownish flocculent sediment.
Station 4227, Behm Canal, in the vicinity of Naha Bay, 62 fathoms, bottom of dark green mud and fine sand.
Amphicteis scaphobranchiata Moore.
Amphicteis scaphobranchiata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
255-257, PI.
XII, figs.
54-61.
Taken at the tj-pe locality only, Station 4201, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver, in Queen Charlotte Sound, 138-145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken shells.
Melinna denticulata Moore.
Melinna denticulata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1905, p. 859, PI.
XLIV, figs.
9 and 10.
Melinna cristata Moore, id., pp.
851-853.
The original description of this species was inadvertently placed under the name of M. cristata, which, as is well known, has already been employed by Sars, The name denticulata was, however, correctly used in the description of the figures on page 857.
The type and only specimen was taken at Station 4258, in the vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, on a bottom of mud, 300-313 fathoms.
Melinna cristata (Sars) Malmgren.
Melinna cristata Malmgren, Ofvers.
Kgl.-Vet.
Akad.
Forh., 1865, p. 371, Two well-preserved specimens in their thick-walled nuid tubes represent this species.
They were both dredged at Boca de Quadra, 23 southeastern .Maska, at Stations 4224 and 4225, 149-188 fathoms, dark green mud.
Samytha biooulata Moore.
Samytha biocidata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906. pp.
253-255, PI.
XLIV, figs.
11-13.
The upper, thickened portion of the mud tube is strengthened by large numbers of siHceous sponge spicules.
Two specimens were taken at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand.
TEREBBLLID^.
Amphitrite robusta Johnson.
Amphitrite robusta Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, pp.
425, 426.
This species appears to be quite abundant in the Gulf of Georgia and as far north as Naha Bay, Behm Canal.
It reaches a larger size than is indicated by Johnson, sometimes exceeding 140 mm, in length and 18 mm.
in diameter, the greatest niunber of segments being 83.
The divisions of the branchiae are often longer than figured by Johnson, whose figure of the uncinus also is somewhat foreshortened.
The number of setigerous somites is constantly 17, as stated by Johnson.
Some of the specimens bear short cirri or papillae beneath the setas of some of the anterior segments.
This is probably a secondary sex character, but this could not be ascertained with certainty.
Stations 4193, Hahbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C., 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4198, 157-280 fathoms, soft green mud; 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay Behm Canal, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge.
Amphitrite radiata nom.
nov. Amphitrite palmata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
858, 859, PI.
XLIV, figs.
19-22; not ^.
palmata Mahngren, 1865.
Stations 4227, Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand; 4245 (tyipe locality), Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 95-98 fathoms, dark green mud with fragments of shell, rock and sand ; 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 fathoms, rock and broken shells.
Lanice heterobranchia Johnson.
Lanice heterobranchia Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 427.
The original description is based upon a single specimen which was stated to have no eyes.
All of several specimens in the present collection possess very numerous deep brown eyes arranged in a compact narrow band on eacli side, with a dorsal interval equal to the interbranchial space and a longer ventral interval.
These eyes are ordinarily concealed by the inrolled margin of the prostomial fold.
The inequality of the gills seems to be a constant character and the number of setigerous segments is 17, as stated by Johnson.
Part of a tube is covered with small pebbles, sea-urchin spines, bits of eel grass, etc.
None of the specimens was found near the type locality in Puget Sound, but all in Alaskan waters at the following stations: 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4259, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 21-78 fathoms, gray sand, broken shell and rock; 4283 Chignik Bay, 30-41 fathoms, black sand and brown sponge; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud, Pista cristata (MuUer) Malmgren.
Pista crislata Malmgren, Ofvers.
Kongl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1S65, pp.
382, 383.
The single example of Pista referred to this species agrees with those dredged by the Albatross off the coast of Japan, and differs from P. cristata as described by European authors in having the upper free angle of the lateral subbranchial membrane of IV much more produced and prominent, quite equalling that of III.
Otherwise they agree, so far as can be ascertained, in all features.
The handles of the uncini on V are longer than the others, but there is no other difference.
Station 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-181 fathoms, dark green mud.
?Pista fasciata (Grube) Marenzeller.
Pista fasciata Marenzeller, Denlvs.
Kais.
Akad.
Wissensch., 1885, Abth.
2, pp.
202-204.
Concerning the reference of the fine species of Pista found at several stations in southeastern Alaska to the above named, I am in much doubt.
Grube's description of Terehella fasciata is not sufficiently precise for certain determination, but the excellent accounts and figures given by Marenzeller and Mcintosh seem to me to refer to different species.
In any event the figure of the branchiae given by the latter would not answer for these specimens, as the terminal twigs are much more spreading and uneven.
About 3 or 4 main branches spring from the trunk, and these immedia.tely branch and rebranch asymmetrically 8 or 10 times, the main stem being always recognizable, but bending at each point of branching and tapering continuously to the end.
Usually 3 gills are well developed, and 1 is either very small and entirely without branches or may be altogether wanting.
Which are well developed appears to be quite accidental.
They may be the two of a pair, or the two of one side, or the left of one and right of the other pair.
All of the specimens exhibit the great flaring wings so well shown in Mcintosh's figure, and there is a distinct postbranchial fold across the dorsum of IV.
The cirri above and behind the setae bundles of VI and VII are well developed.
In respect to most of their characters the uncini resemble Mcintosh's figure closer than those given by Marenzeller, but the former fails to show the guard.
Although none of the specimens is complete, upwards of 100 segments are present, and even incomplete examples measure 160 mm.
long and 6 mm.
wide across the thorax, being therefore much larger than Marenzeller's specimen.
The tube has a thick wall composed of fine silt.
The one from Station 4246 is filled with eggs.
Stations 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-lSl fathoms, dark green mud; 4229, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 198-256 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4230, same region, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4237, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 192-198 fathoms, green mud; 4246, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 101-123 fathoms, gray-green mud, coarse sand and shells.
Laena nuda Moore.
Lana nuda Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
855, 856, PI.
XLIV, figs.
14, 15.
Known only from the type specimen, a female filled with eggs and preserved in a soft mucous tube coated with a thin layer of foreign materials.
It was taken at Station 4279, Kadiak Island, 29 fathoms, dark gray mud.
Thelepus hamatus Moore.
Thelepus hamatus Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1905, pp.
856-858, PI.
XLIV, figs.
16-18.
The type comes from Station 4235, Yes Ba,y, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, green mud, and a second poorly preserved specimen from Station 4227, Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand.
Ataoama conifera Moore.
Atacama conifera Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
853-855, Pl.XLIV, figs.
11-13.
Type from Station 4194, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, bottom of soft green mud.
A second specimen comes from an unknown station.
Terebellides strcemi Sars.
TerebeUides straimii Sars, Beskrivelser og lagthagelser, etc., 1835, p. 48.
The proper discrimination of the species of TerebeUides is still a desideratum.
While in their more obvious characters the species are very constant, in respect to others they vary greatly.
The representatives of the genus found in this collection are in most respects indistinguishable from the widely distributed T. strcemii as described by European writers.
On the other hand the transitional setie of somite VIII and the abdominal uncini present slight but quite obvious differences at nearly every station.
It seems probable that this species as usually recognized includes a large number of subspecies.
The bent setae of VIII vary in the length and shape of the bent limb.
The uncini usually have 5 teeth in the series above and surrounding the beak; surmounting these is a second row of 3 smaller teeth, and crowning all a single still smaller median tooth.
The latter varies in size and in distinctness from the median tooth of the row below, with which it is more or less coalesced; it may even be wanting entirely.
The most distinct form occurs on a large example from Station 4247, in which all of the abdominal uncini examined have the median teeth of the second and third rows completely coalesced and that of the first row altogether absent, leaving a gap.
The result is that the beak and one nearly equally large tooth occupy the middle line and a large tooth flanked by a smaller one lies on each side of the gap.
Most of the specimens are filled with eggs or sperm.
Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 4247, same region, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand, broken shells; 4281, Chignik Bay, 42-43 fathoms, green mud.
Polycirrus sp.
An undetermined species of Polycirrus was taken at Kilisut Harbor.
AMPHIOTENID^.
Pectinaria auriooma (Mailer).
Amphictene auricoma Malmgi-en, Ofvers.
Kongl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1866, pp.
357, 358.
All of the AmphictenidsB in the collection belong to one species whichis clearly distinct from any of those hitherto recorded in the Pacific.
While closely resembling P. auricoma in nearly every respect, there are some points of distinction between these and European examples which may require their eventual specific or subspecific separation.
The margin of the cephaUc membrane is more obscurely and much more irregularly dentate; the uncini usually have 5 large teeth, and the series of fine teeth on the inferior process is not continued on to the upper part of the process beneath the lower large tooth; the scapha hooks are never as completely circular at the end as figured for European specimens.
The paleoli are always 12.
In the smaller specimens they have rather long slender tips which wear away, leaving the ends blunt or, in the case of the lateral ones, somewhat pointed.
Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver, B.
C, 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 4286, Chignik Bay, 57-63 fathoms, green mud and rocks.
OAPITELLID^.
Notomastuo giganteus Moore.
Notomastus giganteus Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
227, 228, PI.
X, figs.
24, 25.
The type locality is Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, in Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud; a larger but incomplete cotype was taken at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand.
OPHELIIDiE.
Ammotrypane aulogaster Rathke.
Ammotrypane aulogaster Rathke, Nov. Act.
Acad.
Cses.
Leop.-Car.
Nat.
Cur., (1843), XX, pp.
188-190.
A single individual 27 mm.
long and consisting of 49 segments was taken at Station 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud.
Ammotrypane brevis Moore.
Ammotrypane brevis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1906, pp.
354, 355, text fig.
The single example on which this species is based is distinguished from the preceding by having the prostomium somewhat depressed dorso-ventrally instead of compressed laterally, by the small number (29) of setigerous somites, and by having the large spoon-shaped anal lobe represented by a slender process only.
The type, a female filled with eggs, is No.
284 of the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and was collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, Alaska.
Travisia forbesii Johnston.
Travisia forbesii Johnston, Ann.
Nat.
Hist., IV, (1840), p. 373.
Already recorded from Bering Sea by both Wiren and ]\Iarenzeller, this species would be expected to occur on the coast of Alaska.
While none were taken by the Albatross naturalists, there are six specimens in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, taken by Dr. Sharp at Icy Cape.
They vary from 25 to 40 mm.
in length and one has the posterior end regenerating.
This species is easily distinguished from the next by having smooth setae, whereas in T. pupa they are hispid and also somewhat stouter.
Travisia pupa Moore.
Travisia pupa Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
228-231 PI, XI, fig.
23. '
This is an abundant worm, conspicuous from its large size and widespread on muddy bottoms.
Specimens were taken at the following stations : 4192, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, Gulf of Georgia (type locaHty), 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4230, Behm Canal, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4235, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4237, Behm Canal, 192 fathoms, green mud; 4246 Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 101-123 fathoms, gray and green mud, coarse sand and shells.
MALDANID^.
Maldane sarsi Malmgren.
Maldane Sarsi Malmgren, Ofvers.
Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1865, p. 188.
Mcintosh and the writer have already recorded this species as occurring in the Pacific off Japan and Wiren in Bering Sea.
The posterior capillary setae have the hairs arranged not in opposite pairs, but spirally.
Stations 4224, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 156-166 fathoms, dark green mud; 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud; 4286, Chignik Bay, 57-63 fathoms, green mud and rocks.
The specimen last listed is a piece of the posterior end, including the pygidium, of a very large individual 3 mm.
in diameter.
Maldane similis Moore.
Maldane similis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.. 1906. pp.
233-236 PI.
XI, figs.
26-30. '
The type and one other specimen were taken at Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud.
Maldanella robusta Moore.
Maldanella robusta Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, 236-239.
PI.
XI, figs.
31, 32.
Specimens of M. robusta were taken at Stations 4197, Gulf of Georgia; 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; 4230, Behm Canal, 108-240 fathoms, rocky battom; and 4246 (type locality), 101-123 fathoms, green mud with coarse sand and shell fragments.
Lumbriolymene pacifica Moore.
Lumhriclymene pacifica Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
pp.
246-248, PI.
Xli, figs.
40-42.
Two complete worms and a fragment, together with four or five tubes, were taken at Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282293 fathoms, green mud; and a caudal end at Station 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver, B.
C, 68-107 fathoms, soft green mud and volcanic sand.
Clymenella tentaculata Moore.
ClymeneUa tentaculata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., pp.
239-242, PI.
XI, figs.
33-35.
Known only from two fragments taken at Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, July 25, 282-293 fathoms, green mud.
Nioomaclie carinata Moore.
Nicomache carinata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
242-246, Pis.
XI, figs.
36-39; XII, figs.
43, 44.
Fragments of this species occur in the collections from the Gulf of Georgia, Station 4197, 31-100 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand ; and Station 4198, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud.
The type locality is Station 4227, in the vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand.
SOALIBREGMID^.
Scalibregma inflatum Rathke.
Scalibregma inflatu7n Rathke, Nov. Act.
Acad.
Caes.
Leop.-Car.
Nat.
Cur., XX, (1843), p. 184.
Two specimens, each about 32 mm.
long and having 57 segments, seem to be quite typical in every respect.
Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud, and 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud.
OHLORH^MIDJE.
Trophonia papillata Johnson.
Trophonia papillata Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 416.
Silt has adhered to the bases of the cutaneous papillse to such an extent that they appear mammilliform, and until they were examined under the microscope it was supposed that an entirely new species was in hand.
Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud.
Brada villosa (Rathke) Malmgren.
Siphnno^toma villomm Rathke, Nov, Act.
Acad.
Ca?s.
Leop.-Car.
Nat.
Cur., XX (1843), p. 218.
No good figures of the setse of this species have been found and the identification is based on the characters of the papillae, tentacles, etc.
Most of the specimens have the head extended.
The number of segments is usually about 30, thus exceeding the number shown in Rathke's figure.
The surface is coated with mucous, which becomes hard and to which sand grains adhere, producing a gritty surface, especially on the bases of the papillae.
Marenzeller records the occurrence of this species in Bering Sea.
Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud.
Brada pilosa Moore.
Brada pilosa Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
231-233, PI.
X, figs.
1-1-17.
This is a rather common species northward.
Examples occur in the collections from Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 11 1-170 fathoms; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4251 (type locality), Stephens Passage, 198 fathoms, rocky bottom ; 4235, Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4252, Stephens Passage, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud, and 4258, Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud.
STERNASPID^.
Sternaspis scutata (Ranzani) Otto.
SterJiaspis scutata, Marenzeller, Ann.
K. K. Nat.
Hofmuseums Wien, V, (1890), p. 6.
These specimens agree exactly with those taken by the Albatross off Japan.
Compared with typical examples of the species from the Mediterranean, they appear to have both the cephalic and caudal seta?
more slender, and the shorter setae of the latter region much less hairy.
This appears to be due to the hairs having been rubbed off, but may possibly be a normal and constant difference.
The form of the caudal plate and branchial area agrees with Marenzeller's figures.
Stations 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 fathoms, rocks and coarse sand; 4251, Stephens Passage, 198 fathoms, rocks; 4252, sam.e region, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud; 4255, Taiya Inlet, Lynn Canal, 247-259 fathoms, rocky.
?Sterna8pis fossor Stimpson.
?
Sternaspis fossor, Marenzeller, Ann.
K. K. Hof museums Wien, V, (1890), pp.
5-8.
As Johnson remarks, the Sternaspis from the neighborhood of Vancouver Island agrees in all respects with specimens from the Atlantic Coast.
Stimpson's S. affinis from Puget Sound is with little doubt to be considered a synonym.
It is noticeable that the lateral angles of the shield plate become more prominent on examples from the more southern stations.
As represented in this collection this species attains a considerably larger size than the last, some of the specimens being 25 mm.
long and 9 mm.
in diameter.
Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver, B. C., 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, Halibut Banlc, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4201, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B.
C, 138-145 fathoms, soft green mud, sand, broken shells; 4218, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud ; 4233, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 39-45 fathoms, soft gray mud and rocks; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 4247, same region, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells.
HERMELLID^.
Sabellaria cementarium Moore.
Sabellaria cementarium Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1906, pp.
248253, PI.
XII, figs.
45-51.
This fine species is probably rather common and may possibly be identical with /S.
calif ornica Fewkes, though the description of the latter fails in several respects to apply to this species.
This point I hope to clear up later.
The tubes, formed of agglutinated sand grains, are remarkable for their strength and hardness, and are found singly or in small clumps attached to stones.
Specimens were taken at the following stations : 4220 (type), Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Washington, 16-31 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells; 4247, Prince of Wales Island, 89114 fathoms, green mud with sand and broken shells; 4274, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4288, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 67-^9 fathoms, gray mud.
SABELLID^.
Sabella formosa Bush.
Sabella formosa Bush, Tubi colons Annelids from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp.
196, 197.
These examples agree well with Miss Bush's description, but differ in having 7, 8 and 9 setigerous thoracic somites respectively.
Only one is well preserved and this has nearly the entire branchiae wine brown, deepest on the radioles and marked with white blotches.
The body is 41 mm., the branchiae 30 mm.
long, the former much contracted, the latter extended.
Station 4198, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud.
Sabella elegans Bush.
Sabella elegans Bush, Tubicolous Annelids from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp.
194, 195.
A fine individual 50 mm.
long with 19 pairs of branchia?
has 4 rows of very regular, deep purplish brown spots which occupy the radioles and extend more faintly on to the pinme of each branchia.
A second smaller one has but 3 sets of spots, and a third still smaller one has them irregularly arranged.
Stations 4227, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand ; 4260, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 8^-21 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks.
Pseudopotamilla anoculata Moore.
Pseudopotamilla anoculata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
566568, PI.
XXXVII, figs.
28-33.
Known from the type only, taken at Station 4230 in the vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 108-240 fathoms, rocky bottom.
Pseudopotamilla splendida Moore.
Pseudopotamilla splendida Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
564-566, PI.
XXXVII, figs.
23-27.
Two specimens were taken at Station 4245, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, June 11, 1903, 95-98 fathoms, dark green mud and sand mixed with shell and rock fragments.
Pseudopotamilla intermedia Moore.
Pseudopotamilla intermedia Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
562-564, PI.
XXXVII, figs.
15-22.
The type only is known; originally recorded erroneously as coming from Station 4267, but really from Station 4269, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 14-19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks.
Pseudopotamilla reniformis (Leuckart) Bush.
Potamilla reniformis Malmgren, Ofvers, Kgl.
Vet.-Akad.
Forh., 1867, p. 114.
Two specimens are each about 35 mm.
long with 16 pairs of branchiae 6 mm.
long.
Both have 10 setigerous thoracic segments.
The branchiaj are colorless except for a brownish zone covering the basal ^, in which all of the eyes, never more than 1 or 2 on each radiole, are aggregated.
Several regenerating radicles bear no eyes.
The dorsal branchial wing is well developed and there is a slight ventral inflection of the branchial base.
The collar has well developed dorsal lobes near the median line, separated by a pair of very deep wide notches from the lateral lobes, which rise abruptly above the collar setse.
There is a little pigment on the dorsum of segments II to IV.
The tube is rather soft and flexible and covered with rather coarse sand grains.
Stations 4269, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 14^19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks ; 4271, same region, 11^20 fathoms, hard gray sand and rock.
Pseudopotamilla brevibranohiata Moore.
PseudopotamiUa brevibranchiafa Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1905, pp.
555-559, PI.
XXXVII, figs.
1-7.
Type and cotype taken at Station 4247, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 95-114 fathoms, mixed mud, sand and broken shells.
Pseudopotamilla occelata Moore.
Pseudopotamilla occelata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Scj.
Phila., 1905, 559-562, Pi.
XXXVII, fig.
8-14.
This species occurs at the following stations : 4202, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, 25-36 fathoms, gray sand; 4261, Icy Strait, 10 fathoms, mud and rock; 4269 and 4270, 14-19 fathoms, hard sand and rock.
The largest specimens, among them the type, are yielded by the last station listed.
Pseudopotamilla debilis Bush.
Pseudopotamilla debilis Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, p. 204.
A single specimen lacking the posterior part represents this species.
There are 16 pairs of gills 14 mm.
long.
Eyes appear to be totally wanting and the gills are marked by a pale brown zone near the base and another al)out midway of their length.
The collar is remarkable for its prominent dorsal lobes.
The tube is long, slender, flexible, and sparsely covered with sand grains and an occasional small pebble.
Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, Halibut Bank, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand.
Chone gracilis Moore.
Chone gracilis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 190G, pp.
257-259, PI.
XII, figs.
62-66.
Known through the type, which comes from Station 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; and a smaller specimen taken at Station 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells.
SERPULID^ Apomatus geniculata Moore.
Protula geniculata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
16S, 169, Pis.
XI, figs.
17, 1S;XII, fig.
38.
A small complete specimen bears 18 pairs of gills, the left dorsalmost one of which is enlarged and flattened and siip])orts only two or three barbs.
In the bottle, which contains no other specimens, is a detached operculum which exactly fits the modified radiole and without doubt belongs to this annelid, placing it therefore in the genus Apomat us.
The operculum has the form shown in the figure, being broadly obovate or egg-shaped and quite smooth, soft and membranous.
In all other respects the specimen agrees with the type.
Some fragments of tubes indicate that two are sometimes coherent Apomatus geniculata— side by side.
The operculum and station 4197, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, outline, x about'' 25.
31-90 fathoms, soft green mud and fine sand.
Serpula columbiana Johnson.
Serpula columhiana Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, pp.
432, 433.
Johnson describes the operculum as having about 100 ribs and marginal denticulations.
In these specimens the number is always much greater and varies from 140 to 160.
Miss Bush also has noted a larger number on her specimens.
The functional operculum is developed sometimes on the right, sometimes on the left side.
The accessory operculum is simply clavate.
Varying with the size of the specimen the branchiae number from 36 to 55 pairs.
The seta?
of the collar have from 2 to 4 large, blunt teeth at the base of the long, slender, curved tip, and theuncini are usually 5or 6-toothed.
Tubes forming a large mass coherent side by side are much thinner and more fragile than tubes found singly.
Port Townsend, on the dock at the .Quarantine Station, also Station 4205, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 15-26 fathoms, rock and shells.
Crucigera formosa Bush.
Crucigera formosa Bush, Tubicolous AnneUds of the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp.
233, 234.
This species seems very doubtfully distinct from C. zygophom (Johnson).
The operculum is usually 26or 27-rayed, but one specimen has 29 and another 32 rays.
The tubes are thick and solid and generally much coiled and coherent in chimps.
One isolated tube is much coiled at the attached base, with an erect free end.
Stations 4209, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washington, 24-25 fathoms, rocks, coarse sand and shells; 4261, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, Alaska, 8^10 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4263, same region, 6^9 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks; 4271, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 11^^to 20 fathoms, hard gray sand and rock; 4283, Chignik Bay, 30-41 fathoms, black sand and brown sponge.
Empty tubes, apparently of this species, were found at Stations 4202, 4204 and 4289.
Hyalopomatopsis occidentalis Bush.
Hyalopomatopsis occidentalis Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Tribes Sabellides and Serpuhdes f rom the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, p. 229.
One was found attached to a tube of Serpula columhiana from Station 4205, and another to a tube of Crucigera formosa from Station 4283.
Spirorbis quadrangularis Stimpson.
Spirorbis quadrangularis Stimpson, Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Tribes Sabellides and Serpulides from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, p. 241.
Found on tubes of Crucigera formosa at Stations 4271 and 4289.
Spirorbis spirillum Linn.
Spirorbis spirillum Linn., Bush, id., p. 243.
Numerous specimens attached to a piece of giant kelp from Station 4262, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 9 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks; also a number in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (No.
1090), collected by Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny at Point Barrow, Alaska.
Spirorbis tridentata Levinsen.
Spirorbis granulata var.
tridentata Levinsen, Viden.
Medd.
Naturh.
J'oren., Kopenhaven, 1882, p. 350; not S. tridentata Bush.
The tubes of this very characteristic species agree so closely with Levinsen's figure that I refer them thereto, in preference to giving a new name founded upon the peculiarities of the worm, though it may be that the animal which occupies the tubes figured by Levinsen will prove to be quite different.
The figures of the tubes given by Levinsen would serve equally well for these.
They are close, sinistral, discoid coils without any true central opening, the first coils being in contact in the center.
As the tubes grow older the outer turns tend to overlap and pile upon the inner, leaving a deep central depression bounded by nearly vertical 1908.]
363 At the same time the tube, which is perfectly smooth in the early stages, becomes roughened by growth lines, and its walls become very thick, solid and stony, and are ornamented by three thick and stout ridges rounded on the free side and covering most of the outer surface of the shell.
Here and there the depressions between them are crossed by transverse spurs and rods.
At the aperture of the tube these ridges project as three very strong and prominent teeth.
Fully developed tubes are usually 3.5 mm.
in diameter and composed of 4 to 4J turns.
The carinae begin at the end of the third turn and I.evinsen's figure very accurately represents one in a half-grown condition, in which the ridged whorl is just beginning to turn in upon the inner coils.
One more turn, with the ridge characters exaggerated, would Spirorbis tridentatus — a, an operculum in side \\eyv, filled -vvith embryos and showing the imperfect four-tiered calcareous plug, X 24; fe, one of the calcareous plates detached and seen from the inner surface, X 24; c, a collar seta, the fin at the base may be somewhat too long, X 600; d, the two seta?
of an abdominal bundle, X 600. result in a condition exactly like my full-grown tubes, in which the inner coils are completely concealed from above and the exposed parts bear massive ridges.
Where free to grow without restraint the tubes are strictly discoid and the lower surface of all of the coils is in intimate contact with the alga to which they are attached, but when the individuals are crowded the coils are heaped up in various irregular and often angulated forms.
In general form the operculum (a) agrees well with that of S. granulatus, being a slender cone containing a broad pouch filled with embryos and tapering regularly into a long but rather stout stalk.
The caloareous part, however, is remarkable, being built up of 3 or even 4 (a) calcareous disks of complex form (6).
Each has a somewhat grooved rim with thin projecting flanges whose margins appear to be entire when perfect, but are usually jagged as a result of wear.
It is very seldom that more than the basal disk and the one next beyond are found entire.
An excentric opening prolonged into a tube on the proximal side perforates each disk obliquely dorsal to the center and accommodates the siphuncular ligament, binding all together.
The number of branchia; is about 11, but could not be definitely ascertained, owing to their being so closely matted together.
There are 3 thoracic and about 24 setigerous abdominal segments, the latter region being veiy short.
The winged collar setffi have the form shown at c, the basal fin being very long, uniform!
}^ serrated and overlapping the base of the blade without an interval.
The blade is very finely serrated, long, acute, and tapering.
The remaining thoracic setae are partly limbate capillary and jjartly serrate and sickle-shaped.
Each fascicle of abdominal setae contains but two, one being a minute aciculum wdth the end bent, the other having a broadly expanded end much like those of S. spirillum (d) .
Nothing distinctive can be detected about the uncinial plates.
The type is No.
80, collection Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and was taken along Math several cotypes at Dutch Harbor, Unalaska, by Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
Attached to a tough alga frond.
PROC.
ACAD NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.
1908.
PLATE VIII n. ^«V 1:^ Ik 6 CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^E.
I ■"\ ^ 7 CHAMBERLIN ON LYC0S1D.S.
I 8 ?--^??f^.
A} HI ^ // 3 !
f \ li^ CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^.
,/— I .
n^^K V t M ^ w^ 'W QOO^ \ "if 1 6 CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSIDyE.
^.
2 5 CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID.S.
PLATE XIII / /f^'CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^.
PLATE XIV.
/ 3 ■\ /" / VJ-^^'^^*^^^*^^ CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^.
CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSIDvE.
PLATE XVI.
CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^^.
PROC.
ACAD NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.
1908.
PLATE XVII.
CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID-^E.
PLATE XVIIl ^ 2 I ^h \.
'%5^' 8 \ W. CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^.
PLATE XIX, ^/^......^.i^iM^W CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^S.
PLATE XX.
/ /T^ <^ \ -r^^^^ ., r\^^ V. 9 CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^E.
PLATE XXI.
r\' 'X CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^.
PLATE XXII.
I A ^\X"X,' 4y \.
nj 5 6 8 9 CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID.^.
PLATE XXlri.
/\ ifii -\^ 71 / '\/ CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID^E AN ORTHOPTEROLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES.
PART I : ARIZONA.
BY JAMES A, G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD.
During the summer of 1907 Orthopterological field work was carried on by the authors at a number of stations extending from El Paso, Texas, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, to southern and north-central California, the material and notes secured being very extensive and of great value.
In this paper we present the results of our work in Arizona, giving first an idea of the environment of the various localities visited.
A trip to the little known Baboquivari range in southern Pima County was interrupted and of necessity abandoned on account of the flooded condition of the country to be traversed.
Much good material, however, was taken before our party was compelled to return to Tucson.
Mr. Otho Poling, the well-known Lepidopterist of Quincy, Illinois, accompanied us through southern Arizona and assisted in collecting much of the material, while all secured in northern Arizona was taken by the junior author.
The number of specimens examined was nine hundred and seventy-three, while the species numbered sixty-three.
Several specimens collected at Nogales and Grand Canyon by Dr. P. P. Calvert in 1906 and a small series taken in or near the Huachuca Mountains by Mr. H. A. Kaeber in the summer of 1907 have also been studied and inserted in this paper, but these are not included in the count of species and specimens.
The types of all the new forms are in the Hebard Collection.
Tucson, Pima County, Arizona.
— Elevation about 2,400 feet.
July 23 and 26.
The immediate vicinity of Tucson is a nearly level desert plain, extending from the Santa Catalina to the Tucson Mountains, drained by the Santa Cruz River and other less constant and smaller streams and washes.
A considerable portion of this plain is covered with stretches of greasewood (Covillea tridentata) and scattered growths of various cacti.
In the vicinity of the water courses and washes mesquite {Prosopis sp.)
is the predominating vegetation, attaining a height of twenty feet or more in favorable locahties, especially along the Santa Cruz River.
The most successful collecting was found in and about a vacant lot on the edge of the city, in the central part of which was a small pool of water, the outlet of a city drain.
About 24 this pool were high cat-tails and other thick growths of plants, in which situation Orthopters were found to be very plentiful, and likewise among a nearby dense thicket of wild sunflowers and bushes.
In these situations the following species were taken: Paratettix toltecus, Syrhula fusco-vittata, Scyllina calida, Encoptolophus texensis, Trepidulus rosaceus, Conozoa carinata, Anconia Integra, Schistocerca vaga, ^oloplus tenuipennis, Melanoplus brownii, M. atlanis and (Ecanthus quadripunctatus.
In the irrigated fields near the river some specimens were found, although by no means as many as might have been expected in a locality apparently so favorable.
On the typical desert greasewood plain forms peculiar to a like environment, such as Heliastus aridus, Ligurotettix kunzei, Derotmema laticinctum and Psoloessa texana, were taken.
In the city at night about the arc Hghts thousands of Gryllids swarmed and could be easily captured in great numbers.
Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona.
— Altitude about 3,000 feet.
July 25.
The old Sonora trail after leaving Tucson winds around the southeast base of the rather low Tucson Mountains, then turns sharply and crosses the range by following up an arroyo or torrent bed and traversing a very low pass in a shallow canyon with sloping sides.
The canyon is very rough and much of the rock exposure is dull reddish in color.
The vegetation is composed in large part of desert foothill types, the most noticeable of which are numerous sahuaro {Cereus giganteus), palo verde {Cercidium torreyanum), choUa {Opuntia sp.)
and the peculiar Koeberlinia spinosa.
Orthoptera were few in number, but the species found were of very great interest and differed noticeably from those of the surrounding plains.
These included a new mantis Yersinia sophronica, a new Truxalid Horesidotes papagensis, Ageneotettix australis, Aulocara rufum, Arphia teporata and Phrynotettix magnus.
The majority of the specimens taken showed considerable adaptation of their coloring to the reddish exposures.
Sahuaro Slope, Southwest Side of the Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona.
— July 25.
After crossing the Tucson range the Sonora trail descends the extensive and gentle southwestern slope of the mountains through a numerous growth of sahuaro or giant cactus {Cereus giganteus), with attendant greasewood {Covillea tridentata) bushes growing thickly and often to a height of over six feet.
Many other plants flourish, the intervening ground between them being usually quite bare, as is often the case in this desert country.
On the greasewood in this situation Ligurotettix was very plentiful and its faint stridulation was to be heard on every side.
Most of the collecting was done at an elevation of about 2,500 feet.
Near Sonora Road, Southwest of the Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona.
— July 25.
Several miles from the Tucson Mountains collecting was carried on for a short time in a grassy area with occasional bunches of rabbitweed.
In this locality Orthoptera were found to be far more plentiful than on the surrounding more truly desert plain.
Among the species taken were Psoloessa texana, Encoptolophus subgracilis, Tomonotus aztecus, Trepidulus rosaceus, Trepididus melleolus, Derotmema laticinctum and Hesperotettix festivus.
Roehle's Ranch, near Coyote Springs, Pima County, Arizona.
— July 24 and 25.
This locality is in the lower level of a plain stretching from the Tucson to the Comobabi range, near a large arroyo known as Roeble's Wash.
It is in a uniform mesquite and rabbitweed region, with no striking difference in conditions for a number of miles to the northeast.
Two specimens of Trepidulus melleolus were the most interesting forms taken.
Yuma, Yuma County, Arizona.
— Elevation about 150 feet, July 27 and 28.
To the east of Yuma the desert stretches, broken by occasional low volcanic hills, where it is too hot for even the greasewood to thrive and desert Orthoptera are almost wholly absent.
Along the Colorado River, however, is a wide strip of willows, and back of these ground heavily overgrown with arrow-wood (Plv^hea sericea) and other reeds where collecting was more productive.
These, although so near the river, were nevertheless parched with the heat.
To the east along the Gila River a great expanse of high weeds was found, but so dry that many fell to pieces when touched and insect life was extremely scarce.
In the irrigated tract below Yuma Orphulella compta was very abundant.
In the town at night Gryllidse and thousands of beetles and other insects swarmed around the arc lights.
All of these Gryllids flew rapidly about, and would have been difficult to capture had they not come to the light dazed and confused.
Williams, Coconino County, Arizona.
— Altitude, 6,748 feet.
September 13, The little collecting done here was accomplished near the station in a field of short weeds and grass, and also near the pine "glades" as they may be called.
The whole country about Williams is on nearly the same plane but gently rolling.
Over this area pines were thickly scattered, underneath which was practically no underbrush but very green grasses, this vegetation imparting to the whole country a park-like appearance.
In the vacant field, where the weeds were more abundant than elsewhere, Orthoptera were found more plentiful than we had expected to find them at this elevation.
Anita, Coconino County, Arizona.
— Altitude about 6,500 feet.
September 11.
At this small station, between W^illiams and the Grand Canyon, but very little time was allowed for collecting.
It is in the midst of the pine ''glades," and, no town being located there, the few specimens taken are typical of the park-like country on the top of the Coconino plateau.
The country was in general the same as that outside the town of Williams.
Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona.
Rim of the Canyon at Bright Angel and 7iam7^/.— Elevation, 6,800-7,000 feet.
September 1 1 .
Back from the edge of the canyon the country is rolling and covered with a forest of pines, under which in most places there is practically no vegetation or soil on the sheet of rock forming the top layer of the plateau.
In this country collecting was almost utterly without result, but along the edge of the canyon, and for a short distance back from it, better results were obtained.
An area to the southeast of the hotel was also found where there was some low vegetation under the pines and in this situation Ageneotettix curtipennis and Amphitornus nanus were taken.
The Bright Angel TrazY.— Altitudes, 6,866 -2,436 feet.
September 12.
For some distance on this trail the collecting proved to be much as at the edge of the canyon, but farther down at about 5,850 feet the canyon side became more open, a few junipers appeared and the open places were filled with thickets and grasses.
It was here (5,800-4,900 feet ■elevation) that Melanoplus canonicus and Syrbula modesta were not imcommon, but more or less difficult to capture owing to the extreme steepness of the location.
Farther down (elevation 4,350-3,900 feet) in the grassy valley above the Indian Garden Spring, it was surprising to note that, in spite of the difference of three thousand feet in elevation and the more grassy country, practically the same forms as those occurring at the top of the canyon were found.
In the garden of the Indian Spring House one Paratettix toltecus was taken.
Diligent search failed to disclose more than two specimens of Orthoptera on the wide canyon mesa (3,700-3,800 feet) which was covered with a sage and occasional patches of prickly pear.
The Trimerotropis vinculata was among sage, while the Paropomala perpallida was captured on the very brink of the canyon precipice (elevation 3,750 feet) in a scant bunch of a sort of wdre-grass.
BLATTID^.
PEEIPLANETA Burmeister.
Teriplaneta amerioana (Linnsus).
A female of this species was taken at Tucson, July 23, and a male at Yuma, July 27, attracted to light in both cases.
1908.
369 This widely distributed species has previously been recorded from Arizona at Yuma, Nogales, Florence and Phoenix.
HOMOaOGAMIA Burmeister.
Homoeogamia erratica Rehn.
A single male of this species was attracted to light at Yuma, July 27.
MANTIDJE YERSINIA Saussure.
Yersinia sophronica^ n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, altitude 3,000 feet.
July 25, 1907.
Collected by Hebard and Rehn.
This very peculiar species differs from Y. solitaria Scudder from the eastern slope and foothills of the Rocky Mountains, western Nebraska and southeastern Arizona in the smaller size, the more compressed head with strongly acute mammiform eyes which are hardly at all divergent and in the shorter cephalic limbs.
In the form of the head and eyes this species suggests the structure found in the African and Indian genera Episcopus and Parepiscopus.
Size small; form very slender; surface smooth.
Head strongly compressed ; occiput strongly concave, rounded ; interantennal region with a pair of median parallel longitudinal carinse which terminate dorsad in short sharp points before reaching the dorsal line of the head; antennae filiform, not quite equal to the pronotum in length; eyes very elongate, not divergent, subparallel, strongly produced mammiform.
Pronotum rather short, subequal in width without any marked supra-coxal dilation, the width contained nearly three times in the length; cephalic margin rounded, caudal margin truncate; median carina distinct throughout, but very delicate on the collar.
Mesonotum and metanotum httle expanded, with distinct median carina, no vestiges of tegmina or wings.
Abdomen subfusiform, a finely marked median carina present throughout its length, distal third quite narrow ; supra-anal plate trigonal ; subgenital plate rounded with a median incision dividing it into Fig.
1.
— Yersinia sophronica n. sp.
Dorsal view of type.
(X 5.)
1 l,cj(t>pnviKT/, discreet.
two lobes; cerci damaged.
Cephalic coxse about two-thirds the length of the pronotum and not extending caudad of the same; cephalic femora slightly longer than the coxae, quite robust, external margin armed with six short .
irregularly placed spines, internal margin with eleven spines, the majority of alternating sizes, largest discoidal spines quite robust; cephaUc tibiae very slightly less than half the length of the femora, armed W-^r/ 1 ^^ ^^^® external margin with eight spines, internal \\\lj[ I margin with about seven spines, terminal claw large; cephalic metatarsi about as long as the tibiae, slender, remaining tarsal joints about equal to the metatarsi Fig, 2.
— Yersinia "^ length.
Median hmbs rather short, femora very sophronican.sTp.
slightly expanded proximad.
Caudal limbs modhead.
(x^O.)
erately slender ; femora reaching to the apex of the fifth abdominal segment, distinctly but slightly inflated in the proximal two-thirds ; tibiae equal to the femora in length, very slender; caudal tarsi short.
General color cinnamon-rufous, darkened on the dorsum of the head and the median area of the pronotum; median line of the abdomen Vandyke brown.
Face burnt umber except antennae and mouth parts which are pale ochraceous.
Apex of abdomen washed with broccoli brown, the tips of the terminal plates ochraceous.
Limbs ochraceous, tending to ochraceous-rufous on the median and caudal femora and dorsal edge of cephalic femora.
Measurements.
Length of body, '.
.
14 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.2 " Length of cephalic femur, 2.6 " Length of caudal femur, 5.7 " The unique type was found running actively about among the stones of a bare hillside.
LITANEUTRIA Saussure.
Litaneutria skinneri Rehn.
A male specimen from the Grand Canyon, altitude 7,000 feet, September 11, 1907, belongs to this species, while another male, not quite mature, from Tucson, July 26, is referred to it with some little doubt.
The Grand Canyon male has the tegmina slightly shorter than the typical individuals of that sex, while the blackish tegminal maculation of the type is absent.
PSEUDOSERMYLE Caudell.
Pseudosermyle truncata Caudell.
Two male specimens of this species taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, July 9 and 16, by Mr. H. Kaeber have been examined.
The species is now known to range from the Grand Canyon region south at least to the southern boundary of the Territory and west to southern California.
The localities from which it has been recorded are Dos Cabezos, Bright Angel, San Bernardino Ranch and the Huachuca and Santa Rita Mountains.
ACRIDID^.
PARATETTIX Bolivar.
Paratettix toltecus (Saussure).
At Tucson two females of this species were taken on July 26, and a single female was collected by Hebard at 3876 feet elevation on the Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, September 12.
These individuals were taken on damp ground near water.
All three specimens have the apex of the pronotum failing to reach the tips of the caudal femora.
MERMIRIA St&l.
Mermiria texana Bruner.
A female specimen of this species taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, July 6, by Mr. H. Kaeber has been examined.
PAROPOMALA Scudder.
Paropomala acris n. sp.
Type : cJ* ; Railroad Pass, Cochise County, Arizona, altitude 4,386 feet.
July 23, 1907.
(Hebard and Rehn.)
This species differs from the previously known species of the genus in the following particulars : from cylindrica and calamus in the much shorter subgenital plate and longer tegmina; from pallida in the slenderer form and more acute fastigium; from dissimilis and virgata in the more produced head, the more acute fastigium and the more elliptical eyes.
Size rather small; form elongate, very slender.
Head with the dorsum slightly longer than the dorsum of the pronotum, occiput hardly elevated, very shghtly arched, fastigium and interocular region horizontal; interocular region slightly narrower than the greatest width of the fastigium; fastigium longer than broad, distinctly acuteangulate in shape with the immediate apex well rounded, surface of the fastigium with a circular impression covering about two-thirds the circumference of a circle; eye elongate-ovate; angle of face considerably retreating, the interantennal region with the angle less acute and 372 [July Fig.
3.~-Paropomala acris n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
(X 4.)
joining the fastigium in a distinctly but not greatly acute angle, frontal costa narrow, gradually and slightly but rather irregularly expanding caudad, strongly sulcate from the fastigial angle to the clypeus; lateral foveolae broad linear, shghtly arcuate, distinctly impressed; antennae exceeding the head and pronotum by about the length of the fastigium, distinctly ensiform, tips very slender.
Pronotum very slightly constricted mesad, the caudal width of the disk contained about twice in the length; cephalic margin of the disk irregularly arcuate, caudal margin of the disk regularly arcuate; median carina distinct throughout its length, not high ; prozona nearly half again as long as the metazona, metazona deeply punctate, lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep, ventral margin nearly straight, cephalic margin straight oblique, metazona of the lateral lobes punctate.
Tegmina exceeding the tips of the caudal femora by very slightly more than the length of the fastigium and falling very little short of the tip of the subgenital plate, in shape very narrow with the apex narrowly rounded.
Prosternum with a low blunt process.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes very narrow and apparently divided mesad by the lobes which are subcontiguous at that Fie 4—Paropomala point; metasternal lobes contiguous.
Supra-anal acris n. sp.
Dorsal plate acute-trigonal, arched transversely, slightly u 1 1 i n e of (X 4.)
head flattened dorsad; cerci simple, styliform, very slightly arcuate ventrad, reaching nearly to the apex of the supra-anal plate ; subgenital plate moderately compressed acute-angulate in outline when viewed from the side, apex well rounded, the dorsum of the plate with a median longitudinal lamellate carina.
Cephalic and median limbs very short.
Caudal femora half again as long as the head and pronotum together, compressed, moderately slender; tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, armed on the external margin with fourteen spines.
General color dorsad and ventrad salmon, a chalk-white bar on each side extending from the caudal and ventral margin of the eye over the entire gense, ventral half of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, pleura and lateral face of the caudal femora.
This white bar is bordered dorsad by one of chocolate which is very narrow at the eye but gradually expands to the middle of the pronotum, whence it as gradually contracts until it is lost dorsad of the articulation of the caudal limbs.
Another narrow whitish line is present on each side of the head and prozona between the chocolate bar and the general color and a pair of lunate bars of vinaceous-ruf ous are present on the occiput.
Eyes tawny olive ; antennae and face raw umber.
Tegmina buff, humeral vein seal brown.
Measureme7its.
Length of body, 21 mm.
Length of pronotum, '^ [[ Length of tegmen, 14 Length of caudal femur, 9.8 '' The type is the only specimen of the species examined and was taken on the desert summit of the Pass, among mesquite bushes and dry grass.
Paropomala perpallida n. sp.
Type: c^; near Bright Angel Trail, elevation 3,750 feet.
Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona.
September 12, 1907.
Collected by M. Hebard.
This species is closely related to P. pallida Bruner from the Salton Basin, California and southwestern Arizona, differing in the considerably smaller size.
Size small; form moderately slender (for the genus).
Head very slightly longer than the dorsum of the pronotum; occiput and interocular region regularly but not strongly arcuate from the pronotum to about the middle of the fastigium; interocular region very slightly narrower than the greatest f astigial width : fastigium slightly longer than broad, lateral margins acute-angulate but with the apex very broadly rounded, impressed pattern on the disk of the fastigium semicircular; face very considerably retreating, interantennal region with the angle much less acute and very narrowly rounding into the fastigium, frontal costa subequal in width to below the median ocellus whence it 374 [July, Fig.
5.
— Paropomala perpallida n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
(X 5.)
regularly but not greatly expands to the clypeal suture, sulcate throughout its length ; eyes narrow-ovate, moderately prominent when viewed from the dorsum; lateral foveolse sublanceolate, slightly arcuate, deeply impressed; antennae about three times the length of the pronotum, slightly depressed and expanded proximad, tips very slender.
Pronotum with the caudal width of the disk contained slightly less than twice in the length of the disk ; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, caudal margin arcuate with the median portion somewhat flattened; median carina distinct but low, prozona slightly more than half again the length of the metazona, the latter on the dorsum and lateral lobes thickly but shallowly punctate; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, ventral and cephalic margins obliquely sublinear.
Tegmina reaching to the apex of the subgenital plate, narrow, apex truncatorotundate.
Mesosternal lobes separated by a very narrow space; metasternal lobes attingent.
Subgenital plate slightly compressed, apex very slightly rostrate.
Cephalic and median limbs very short.
Caudal femora failing to reach the tips of the tegmina by more than half the length of the pronotum, modmala perpallida erately slender, compressed ; caudal tibiae slightly n. sp Dorsal shorter than the femora, external margin armed with outbneof head.
.
.
, (X 5.)
tmrteen spmes.
General color cream-buff with a barely appreciable greenish tinge.
Dark lateral bars vandyke brown, gradually expanding on the head, continued over the lateral lobes and pleura, suffusing the base of the costal field of the tegmina and coloring the proximal half of the discoidal and humeral veins of the same and the dorsal half of the proximal abdominal segments.
Wliite lateral bars as in P. acris, but not present on the caudal femora.
Eyes clay color marbled with bistre; face and mouth parts sprinkled with small spots of brown; antennae tawny, darker proximad.
Caudal femora of the general color with the dorsal half of the lateral face pale vinaceous bordered ventrad by a line of dots of brownish.
Measure77ients.
Length of body, 16.2 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.5 " Length of tegmen, 11 Length of caudal femur, 8 The type specimen is the only one examined by the authors.
It was taken on the extreme edge of the canyon plateau and was found clinging to a wisp of dry grass, the only vegetation along the extreme edge of the plateau above the trail.
SYRBULA st&i.
Syrbula fuscovittata Thomas.
At Tucson on July 26 two males and three females of this species were taken from high weeds growing in damp soil surrounding a pool.
An immature female was also taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25.
One of the males is in a condition similar to that of the specimen of the same sex recorded by Rehn.^ Two of the females are in the green phase and the other in the brown phase, with, however, much very pale green on the face and sides of the head, lateral lobes of the pronotum, tegmina and caudal femora.
The males are smaller than the average of a series of eight from the Huachuca Mountains.
Syrbula modesta Bruner.
This rather diminutive species was taken at elevations ranging from 4,900 to 5,800 feet in the Grand Canyon, three males and two females being included in the series.
Apparently this species has two color phases, as all the specimens seen are in a brown phase of coloration, while Bruner's original description shows that his specimens had green or greenish the predominating color.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 32.
As far as known this species is found only in the Grand Canyon region.
The males of this form, instead of flying straight from one place to another, rise usually very swiftly in a curve which, on account of their size and coloration, makes them very hard to follow.
The females rely almost altogether on their powerful saltatorial ability.
Often in alighting the males would select the terminal twigs of a juniper as resting places.
In distribution it appeared to be very local.
BOOTETTIX Bruner.
Bootettix argentatus Bruner.
This very interesting species was taken at several localities and always on its favorite shrub, the greasewood (Covillea tridentata).
At Yuma on July 27 it was found to be numerous and seven males were taken; an immature individual was collected at Sentinel, July 27.
An adult male and an immature specimen were taken on the Sahuaro slope southwest of the Tucson ]\Iountains, July 25.
All the specimens collectq^l lack decided spots on the sutural margin of the tegmina, and even traces are present in only one individual.
AMPHITORNUS McNeill.
AmpMtornus nanus n. sp.
Type : d^ ; Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona, altitude 7,000 feet, in conifer forest.
September 11, 1907.
Collected by Morgan Hebard.
Closely related to A. ornatus McNeill, but differing in the very small size (length of body 14.5 mm.)
and the shorter tegmina which hardly surpass the tips of the caudal femora.
Size quite small; form as usual in the genus.
Head very slightly shorter than the dorsum of the pronotum, occiput and interocular region regularly but slightly ascending to the fastigium; interocular region but little narrower than the greatest fastigial width ; fastigium slightly acute-angulate, the immediate apex narrowly rounded, median carina distinct on occiput, interocular region and fastigium, very low except on the fastigium; face considerably retreating, interantennal region rounding to the subrectangulate junction with the fastigium ; frontal costa moderately broad and subequal to a very short distance ventrad of the ocellus, considerably broader and subequal thence to the clypeal suture, for its entire length depressed within its margins and punctate; eyes subacute-ovate, hardly prominent when viewed from the dorsum; lateral foveola distinct, impressed caudad; antennae about equal to the head and pronotum in length, rather robust, slightly depressed proximad, tips bluntly acuminate.
Pronotum with the disk about half again as long as the greatest caudal width of the same; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, caudal margin very obtuse-angulate ; median carina moderately elevated, accessory carinse distinct and parallel with but weaker than the median one; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep.
Tegmina exceeding the abdomen by slightly less than the length of the eye and very slightly surpassing the tips of the caudal femora; apices of tegmina rounded; intercalary vein absent.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subquadrate, but little narrower than one of the lobes; metasternal lobes subattingent caudad.
Subgenital plate blunt, somewhat compressed dorsad.
Caudal femora shghtly more than three times the length of the pronotum, of medium build ; caudal tibisG considerably Fig.
7.
— Amphitornus nanus n. sp.
Lateral Adew of type.
(X 5.)
shorter than the femora, armed on the lateral margin with eleven to twelve spines.
General colors vandyke brown, seal brown and pinkish white.
A narrow line of white extends from the caudal margin of the eye obhquely ventro-caudad to the pronotal margin, thence transversely across the lateral lobe, curving somewhat ventrad at the caudal margin.
Another whitish line extends from the base of each antenna as a narrow line bordering the ventro-cephalic and ventral border of the eye, broadening and extending diagonally across the gena to the ventrocaudal angle of the same, reappearing again as a moderately wide white ventral border to the lateral lobe, separated from the one dorsad of it by a wider bar of seal brown, and vanishing dorsad of the insertion of the median limbs.
Head with the dorsal surface, sides and face seal brown, aside from the white bars mentioned above and a bar of mars brown extending from the dorso-caiiclal margin of the eye to the caudal margin of the pronotum, margining the disk on the latter; eyes and antennae walnut brown.
Pronotum with the disk seal brown, except for the area between the supplementary carinae which is chocolate.'
Tegmina vandyke brown, seal brown proximad in the region of the humeral and discoidal veins; area between the mediastine and humeral veins proximad with a bar of whitish.
Venter and abdomen naples yellow, stippled on the sides and apex of the abdomen with brownish.
Cephalic and median limbs thickly sprinkled with walnut brown on a paler ground.
Caudal femora with the dorsal half with ecru drab as a base color, ventral half straw yellow, genicular region seal brown, bar at a third the length from the tips seal brown, distinct and solid dorsad, weak ventrad; dorsal face with the proximal half washed with seal brown and the dorsal half of the lateral face clouded with one extensive proximal maculation and a smaller median one.
Caudal tibiae glaucous blue, blackish at the genicular region and pale between this and the glaucous portion, spines with their distal halves black.
Measurements.
Length of body, 14.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.7 " Length of tegmen, 11.5 Length of caudal femur, 8.7 " The unique type "v^as found on ground devoid of vegetation but covered with needles in the dense pihon and juniper forest.
No other Orthoptera were noticed in this locality.
ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos.
Orphulella oompta Scudder.
This species was exceedingly abundant at Yuma, on irrigated ground along the Colorado River south of the town.
On July 28 a series of twenty-six males, sixteen females and two nymphs was taken.
Of this series about half is in the green phase, while the remainder is divided between a full brown phase and one possessing both green and brown in its make-up — a mixed phase.
Only one, a female, shows any tendency toward purphsh on the tegmina, and in this case it is not strongly marked.
There is a considerable amount of variation in size in both sexes, and also in the form of the angle and depth and extent of the excavation of the fastigium.
^ This bar is very faintly indicated on the head.
1908.
379 The records of this species show its main range to be over the lower part of the Colorado Valley and adjacent Salton Basin, while the occurrence of it at San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, in southeastern Arizona, in all probability, is due to the species following up the Yaqui Valley from the Gulf of California section of ^lexico.
HORESIDOTES Scudder.
Horesidotes papagensis n. sp.
Type : 9 ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, altitude about 3,000 feet, July 25, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Closely ahied to H. cinereus Scudder, with topotypes of which it has been compared, but differing in the somewhat smaller size, blunter fastigium, greater interspace between the eyes, less apparent lateral foveolse, quite distinct and continuous intercalary vein and more -Horesidotes papagensis n Lateral view of type.
robust and inflated and proportionately somewhat shorter caudal femora.
Size moderate; form distinctly compressed.
Head slightly shorter than the dorsal length of the pronotum, ascending on the occiput to the vertex which is interocular, fastigium well rounded into the facial outline; interocular region subequal to the width of the fastigium, the occiput and interocular region with a weak median and pair of closely placed supplementary carinae; fastigium slightly broader than long.
380 [July, slightly Jacute-angulate with the apex blunt, surface but slightly depressed in]^the form of a crescent; lateral foveolse entirely visible from the dorsum, sublinear, slightly arcuate, not deeply impressed; face moderately retreating; frontal costa regularly expanding ventrad, sulcate and impressed for a distance ventrad of the ocellus, punctate dorsad ; eyes somewhat acute-ovate, not very prominent when viewed from the dorsum; antennae about as long as the head and pronotum, depressed and slightly expanded proximad.
Pronotum somewhat constricted mesad ; cephalic margin of disk slightly arcuate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate; median carina distinct and well elevated, severed by the transverse sulcus slightly caudad of the middle, lateral carinse slightly less elevated than the median, arcuate convergent on the cephahc third of the disk, at a third the length from the cephalic margin they are separated by a space but little more than half that separating them at the cephaUc margin, from which point of greatest proximity they diverge in straight line to the caudal margin where they are slightly more distant than cephalad ; lateral lobes as deep as long, ventral margin obtuse-angulate.
Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen by about the dorsal length of the head, narrow, tips rounded; intercalary vein disPig.
9.—Horesidotes tinct and continuous, at least distad; lobe on the DOTsalvfewo^head costal margin small.
Interspace between the and pronotum.
mesosternal lobes subquadrate, narrower than ^^ '^ the width of one of the lobes; metasternal lobes subcontiguous caudad.
Cephahc and median hmbs of medium build.
Caudal femora three times the length of the pronotum, rather robust; caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, armed on the external margin with ten spines, internal spurs subequal.
General dorsal color prout's brown, obscurely sprinkled and mottled with Vandyke brown; general ventral color ochraceous-buff becoming very pale yellowish on the abdomen.
Head with the face and ventral half of gense ochraceous-buff sprinkled with vandyke brown, mouthparts rufous ; eyes clay color mottled with vandyke brown ; antennae rufous becoming olive-buff distad.
Pronotum with the disk slightly paler than the dorsal half of the lateral lobes, line between dorsal and ventral color slightly below the middle of the lateral lobes, sinuate, sharply defined ; an isolated bar of the ventral color is present dorsad of the insertion of the caudal limbs.
Tegmina of the dorsal color.
Cephalic and median limbs tawny, obscurely and imperfectly annulate and marbled with darker.
Caudal femora vinaceous-cinnamon, marbled and washed with vandyke brown; caudal tibiae very pale glaucous, becoming ochraceous proximad, entirely overlaid with fine purplish-red mottlings, spines and spurs with their apical halves black.
Measurements.
Length of body, 21.2 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4 " Length of tegmen, 17.6 " Length of caudal femur, 12.7 " The male specimen from Yuma County, Arizona, recorded by the senior author* as Horesidotes cinereusl is seen on re-examination and comparison with the recently acquired material to be nearer papagensis, to which we tentatively refer it.
The type of papagensis was taken among leaves under bushes on the canyon bottom, and showed no inclination to leave the ground.
SCYLLINA St&l.
Scyllina calida Bruner.
One female specimen of this species was taken at Tucson, July 26, in short grass growing about the end of a drain.
Its movements were quite awkward.
The previous records of this species in the United States are from San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, and Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Arizona.
PSOLOESSA Scudder.
Psoloessa texana Scudder.
The series of specimens of the genus Psoloessa taken in Arizona in the summer of 1907 numbers one hundred and six.
After considerable study of this and other material, the authors are under the necessity of considering the four nominal species of this genus (texana, ferruginea, maculipennis and huddiana) as one, for which they select the name texana as it has page priority over ferruginea and maculipennis, huddiana being of much later date.
To some this may appear unwarranted as characters, such as the angle of the face, proportions of the lateral f oveolse of the head and the width of the fastigium, as well as the color pattern, have been used in * Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
PMla., 1904, p. 563.
25 keys to separate the "species," To present the reasons for creating the synonymy clearly, it would be best to explain the methods used in reaching the conclusions.
The original descriptions of ferruginea, maculipennis, texana and buddiana were tabulated in parallel columns, and from the mass of material specimens which agreed as nearly as possible with these descriptions were selected.
The condensed diagnostic characters of the four "species" are as follows : Typical buddiana.
Whole dorsum uniform pale pinkish brown.
Lateral bars solid and well marked.
Caudal femora with but a faint indication of the dorsal bar at the terminal third.
Typical ferruginea.
Whole dorsum ochraceous with the usual markings on the dorsum of the metazona.
Lateral bars broken.
Caudal femora with distinct bar at the terminal third.
Typical maculipennis.
Dorsum of the closed tegmina and pronotum sprinkled with blackish quadrate or subquadrate spots.
Lateral bar with the remains less sharply defined than in ferruginea.
Typical texana.
Dorsum suffused with blackish.
Tegmina blackish with the veins dark.
Caudal femora with the dorsum of the genicular portion black.
The number of specimens of the total of one hundred and six which appeared to be typical of these forms were: buddiana, three; ferruginea, ten; maculipennis, nine; texana, three, while eighty-one or over seventy-five per cent, were typical of none.
Of this remaining series twelve share characters of buddiana, ferruginea and maculipennis, sixtysix characters of ferruginea and maculipennis and three characters of maculipennis and texana.
When compared with three Shovel Mount, Texas, females the Arizona females differ uniformly in the narrower fastigium, which is usually more deeply excavated or at least appears to be so.
When the Arizona series of both sexes is examined there is seen to be considerable variation in both sexes in the width of the fastigium, irrespective of locality or color phase, and in the degree of constriction of the lateral carinae of the pronotum.
Careful examination of the selected typical females fails to show any difference in the facial angle, and the shape of the lateral foveolse is of such variability that no reliance can be placed on this character.
The long type of foveolse, supposed to be peculiar to the texana form, can be duplicated in specimens picked haphazard from the series of the other three types, and moreover the dark texana has as much variability in the few specimens available of the form as one needs to convince them of the variability of this character.
From this evidence there appears but one conclusion to be drawn, and that is to consider the different types forms of one species, as the presence of a seventy-five per cent, intermediate series leaves open to us only this solution or the most arbitrary allotment of this "mixed" body.
The latter course has nothing in its favor, as the definition of the "species" would be a practical impossibility.
The localities represented in the series at hand are Tucson, July 26, four cJ*, twelve 9 ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25, ' one 9 ; near Sonora Road, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 25, seven d^, five 9 ; Roeble's Ranch near Coyote Springs, July 24 and 25, twenty-eight 6^, forty-eight 9 .
Typical huddiana was taken at Tucson, near Sonora Road and Roeble's Ranch, ferruginea at Tucson and Roeble's Ranch, maculipennis at Tucson and Roeble's Ranch and texana at Tucson and near Sonora Road.
This insect appears to be the most difficult to capture of almost any of the desert species encountered, this being due to its remarkable protective coloration and to its great swiftness in springing into the air and taking flight.
It was by all odds the most plentiful and widely distributed desert species collected.
AGENEOTETTIX McNeill.
Ageneotettix australis Bruner.
An adult male of this species was taken in Sonora Road Canyon, July 25, and an immature female at Roeble's Ranch, the same date.
The mature specimen was captured on the rocky canyon side.
Ageneotettix ourtipennis Bruner.
A female specimen from Bright Angel, altitude 7,000 feet, September 11, is referred to this species.
The tegmina are very short, not more than one-third the length of the abdomen, and the caudal tibiae have the proximal third ochraceous clouded and sprinkled with fuscous.
The original locality for this species was simply "Southern Colorado," and in consequence this is the first definite record for the species.
The specimen was found on stony ground, among low plants in a forest of pinon and juniper, where Amphitornus nanus was the only other species of Orthoptera seen.
ATJLOCARA Scudder.
Aalooara rufum Scudder.
A single male of this species was taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25.
LIGUEOTETTIX McNeiU.
Ligurotettix kunzei Caudell.
This extremely interesting and peculiar species is represented by a series of forty-five specimens taken at Tucson, July 26 (three d^, two 9 ), Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25 (twelve c?, five adult ?
, one immature 9 ), Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25 (eight c?, one adult $ , one immature 9 ), Sentinel, Maricopa County, July 27 (one 6"), and Yuma, July 27 (three c^, eight 9 ).
The Yuma specimens are as large as Tucson individuals and do not seem to approach the smaller Californian L. coquilletti.
In size the whole series is fairly uniform, some slight individual variation being noticed in both sexes.
Average specimens from the localities represented in the collection measure as follows : Length of Length of Length of body.
tegmina.
caudal femora.
Tucson, 18 mm.
16.8 mm.
9.7 mm.
Near Sonora Road, .
.
16.4 '' 15.2 '' 9 " Roeble's Ranch, .
.
.
16.5 " 16.1 " 9 " Sentinel, 16 '' 15.2 " 9.5 " Yuma, 17.5 " 16.7 " 10.2 " 9 Tucson, 24.2 mm.
22,4 mm, 12.5 mm.
Near Sonora Road, .
.
23.5 " 21.7 " 12 '' Roeble's Ranch, ... 22 " 20.8 '' 11.7 " Yuma, 24.5 '' 22 " 12.8 " In color there is a considerable amount of variation, all, however, in conformity with the subdued color pattern of the insect.
The most peculiar variation is in the presence of blackish brown on the cephalic half or more of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, and also on the pleura accompanied by a suffusion of the gense.
In its complete form this phase is present in but one female from Yuma, in which the contrast with the pale dorsum and caudal portion of the lateral lobes is very striking, although suggested more or less strongly by a few, chiefly males, from Tucson, Sonora Road and Roeble's Ranch.
There is a considerable amount of variation in the sprinkling and lining of the dorsum of the pronotum and head and the tegmina with blackish brown, this being, however, more noticeable in the females than in the males.
The Yuma specimens as a series and the Sentinel individual are paler and more ashy than those from the vicinity of Tucson and the Papago country, which may possibly be due to the increased aridity and greater sunlight of southwestern Arizona when compared with the Tucson region.
The usual position of specimens on the main branches of Covillea would allow reflected light to play a very important part in color bleaching.
At Roeble's Ranch and along the Sonora Road this species was found chiefly on mesquite, where the insects clung tightly to the twigs and trusted so far to their protective coloration that those taken were cautiously approached with the hands and suddenly seized.
If not captured they sprang with agility to some other part of the bush and often escaped completely.
They stridulated frequently, a faint sikk, sikk, sik-sik-sik.
At Yuma the species was found on greasewood (Covillea) and was extremely active and wary in spite of the frightful heat.
ARPHIA Stil.
Arphia teporata Scudder.
Three males and a female taken on rocky desert hillside in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25, belong to this species.
They are more thickly speckled and variegated with dark brown than a series from Alamogordo, New Mexico, and all are faintly washed with reddish brown.
ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder.
Enooptolophus texensis Bruner.
At Tucson along the Santa Cruz River on irrigated land this species was found July 26 in moderate numbers.
Eight males and six females were taken, three of the females being in a green phase of coloration, as previously noted in a Phoenix specimen,^ the green being on the head, pronotum, dorsal face of caudal femora and to a certain extent on the pleura, while another of the same sex is weakly greenish on the same areas.
The series exliibits an appreciable amount of variation in size, particularly in the male sex.
Enooptolophus subgracilis Caudell.
A single female with rather short tegmina and wings, taken July 25 in mesquite and rabbit-weed surroundings near the Sonora Road southwest of the Tucson Mountains, is apparently referable to this species.
The wings, however, are faintly yellowish proximad, in this respect resembling texensis.
The measurements of this specimen are as follows : = Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 76.
Length of body, 22.7 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4 " Length of tegmen, 18.3 Length of caudal femur, 11 HIPPISCTJS Saussure.
Hippiscus corallipes (Haldeman).
A single female of this species, taken at the east base of the Huachuca Mountains, July 6, by H. A. Kaeber, has been examined.
The species has previously been recorded from that range by the senior author.^ DISSOSTEIRA Scudder.
Diisosteira Carolina (Linnaus).
Three males and two females of this widely distributed species were taken at Williams, September 13, while a single female was taken September 11 at Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, elevation of 6,850 feet.
TOMONOTUS Saussure.
Tomonotus ferruginosus Bruner.
A pair of this species from Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, taken July 5 and 15 bj^ H. Kaeber, has been examined.
The range of this form includes localities from Southern California to Fort Grant and the Huachuca Mountains, southeastern Arizona, and from Phoenix, Arizona, to Uruapan, Michoacan, Mexico.
Tomonotus aztecus (Saussure). '
A series of seven males and two females of this species were taken July 25 near the Sonora Road, southwest of the Tucson Mountains, on a flat covered with very low weeds with many bare spaces between.
A single male was also taken the same day at Roeble's Ranch.
METATOR McNeill.
Metator pardalinum (Saussure).
A single female of this species, taken at Williams, September 13, is the first Arizona record of the genus and species.
The specimen has the disk of the wings scarlet and is inseparable from Colorado individuals.
It was taken in an open place thickly overgrown with rabbit-weed and other equally low vegetation.
MESTOBEEGMA Scudder.
Mestobregma obliterata Bruner.
A series of six males and ten females was taken at Williams, September 13.
There is considerable variation in the length of the tegmina « Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 36. and wings in the females, while the same is true of the caudal femora.
The disk of the wings is lemon yellow in all the specimens and the transverse bar is not distinctly marked.
The caudal margin of the disk and lateral lobes of the pronotum are distinctly colored with yellowish in a few specimens, while the angle of the tegmina is lined with the same in three specimens and with whitish in two others.
This species was found in the same situation as Metator pardalinum.
TREPIDULUS McNeill.
Trepidulus rosaceus (Scudder).
This very interesting species is represented by a series of twenty-nine males and twelve females.
The localities at which it was taken are Tucson, July 26 (10 d", 9 ? )
; near Sonora Road, July 25 (15 d', 2 9 ) ; Roeble's Ranch, July 25 (3 c?, 2 9 ), and Yuma, July 28 (1 d").
In size the series exhibits an appreciable amount of variation, while the coloration shows all conditions of ashy washes and blackish speckling and blotching, particularly on the dorsal aspect of the closed tegmina, while the base color ranges in spots from ochre to seal brown.
The pale ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is, however, sharply defined in every individual, and the two dorsal blotches on the caudal femora are distinct in all but one female specimen.
Attention should be called to the fact that the Yuma individual is uniformly more grayish than specimens from the Tucson region, the maculations being sub-obsolete.
This species was found in the same restricted locality along the Sonora Road as Tomonotus aztecus and Trepidulus melleolus, where it was moderately plentiful; at Yuma the single specimen encountered was taken on a broad flat of high weeds which had been completely dried by the extreme heat.
It was found common among desert growth at Tucson, on the outskirts of the Mexican section of the town.
Trepidulus melleolus (Scudder).
Two males from the vicinity of the Sonora Road, July 25, and two males and a female from Roeble's Ranch, July 25, represent this interesting species.
It appears from the material in hand, five males and two females, that there is a great amount of individual variation in size in both sexes; the two females before us, one from Roeble's Ranch, the other from San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, having a considerable difference in size.
The coloration is fairly constant in character.
This species enjoys a range from northeastern New Mexico (La Trementina) to Pima County, Arizona.
r This striking form was taken on the desert plain in the two above locahties where it was extremely scarce.
DEROTMEMA Scudder.
Derotmema laticinctum Scudder.
On the desert plains of the Papago country this species was collected in numbers, a series of seventy-one males and thirty-three females being before us.
It was usually found on exposed areas of adobe soil and associated with Psoloessa texana.
The series is distributed as follows : Tucson, July 26, twenty-seven males, eleven females (one immature) ; Sahuaro slope, southwestern side of Tucson Mountains, July 24, one male; near Sonora Road, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 25, eighteen males, fifteen females (two immature); Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25, twenty-five males (one immature), seven females (two immature).
This series is quite variable in the depth of coloration and in the character of the maculations on the anal area of the tegmina.
Some specimens have three or four comparatively large blotches on this portion of the tegmina, while others have the same region more or less thickly sprinkled with small quadrate blotches.
The fuscous bar on the wing varies in intensity and considerably in extent.
One specimen from Tucson has the bar very weak and of httle extent.
The specimens from the Baboqui vari Mountains previously recorded by the senior author as Derotmema delicatulum,^ prove on second examination and comparison with typical specimens of delicatulum to be this species.
The range of the species is now known to extend from the west slope of the Organ Mountains of central southern New Mexico to Phoenix, Maricopa County, and the Baboquivari region, Pima County, Arizona.
Derotmema delicatulum Scudder.
This rather remarkable species is represented by four specimens, two of each sex, taken at Sentinel, Maricopa County, July 27.
The very prominent eyes, very pale, in fact almost colorless, disk of the wing and much reduced but conspicuous and well-defined transverse blotch on the wing are sufficient to enable one to readily recognize the species.
The coloration is very pale, with the darker pattern well defined and comparatively regular.
The habitat of this form is the Mohave and Ymna deserts, ranging from the western edge of the Mohave at Mohave and Lancaster, California, to at least Sentinel, Maricopa County, Arizona.
The specimens ^ Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 72. listed above were collected during a train stop in a most arid and desolate location.
Derotmema haydeni (Thomas).
A series of five males and four females was taken at Williams, September 13 (two 6" , two 9 ), and Anita, September 11 (two c^, three ?
).
The disk of the wing is red in five specimens and yellow in four, regardless of locality.
The series from Williams is more blackish than usual in the species, while the Anita individuals are quite reddish.
The species has previously been recorded from Flagstaff.
At Anita the species was common on reddish soil in an open field, while at Williams it was taken in an open place heavily overgrown with low vegetation.
CONOZOA.
Saussure.
Conozoa carinata Rehn.
A series of five males and one female taken at Tucson, July 26, represent this species.
These specimens are somewhat paler than the types, while the males have the fastigium very slightly narrower than in the female type.
The female specimen has the metazona of the pronotum abnormally humped, probably as the result of an injury.
This species is now known to range from the Huachuca Mountains to the Baboquivari range, north to Tucson.
Conozoa sulcifrons (Scudder).
At Yuma this species was taken in numbers on July 26 and 27, a series of twenty-one males and twenty-three females being secured.
When compared with a series from Grand Junction, Colorado, the Yuma specimens are seen to average considerably larger.
The Yuma series is as a whole more warm brown in color, with the dorsal aspect of the head, pronotum and anal field of the tegmina paler and more uniform.
The specimens from Florence and Phoenix, Arizona, referred to C. acuminata with a query by the senior author^ belong to this species.
In size they are slightly smaller than Yuma individuals of the same sex.
This was the most plentiful species found on the dry earth of the river bed and along its banks.
Although an active flyer no great difficulty was experienced in capturing specimens.
TRIMEROTROPIS StM.
Trimerotropis fascicula McNeill.
A single female of this species was collected at light at Nogales, August 13, 1906, by Dr. Calvert.
« Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, p. 567.
The specimens recorded by Snow^ from Oak Creek Canyon and Humphreys Peak, Coconino County, Arizona, as this species prove, on examination of individuals forwarded by Prof.
Snow, to be T. alliciens Scudder.
The two forms, however, are very closely related.
Trimerotropis modesta Bruner.
A female of this form taken on the rim of the Grand Canyon, near Bright Angel, September 11, and a male taken at Williams, September 13, are in the collection.
The specific validity of this form appears to be rather questionable, as its relationship to T. citrina is so close that it may be nothing more than a race of that species.
Trimerotropis strenua McNeill.
Two specimens of this species were taken at Tucson, July 26, at light.
When compared with Salt Lake Valley specimens they are seen to be inseparable.
Snow has recorded this species from San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, Arizona.
Trimerotropis inconspioua Bruner.
Three males of this species taken at Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, 6,880 feet to 7,000 feet, are before us.
Two were taken July 29 to August 2, 1906, by Calvert, and one on September 11, 1907, by Hebard.
Two specimens are identical in coloration with the tegminal bars decidedly blackish and strongly contrasting with the pale ochraceous base color, while the other specimen is decidedly reddish, both bars and base color.
This species was described by Bruner from material taken at a number of localities in the Grand River region of western Colorado, this being the first record of the species from any locality outside of that State.
The specimen taken on September 11 was the only individual of the species noticed and was captured in the forest of piiion and juniper.
Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder.
This wide ranging species is represented by eighty-three specimens taken as follows: Tucson, July 26, 27 d^, 18 ?
; Sonora Road Canyon, July 25, 4 cJ*; Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25, 2 9 ; Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25, 13 d', 4 9 ; Nogales, August 13 (at light, Calvert), 1 d ; Yuma, July 28, 1 d" ; WiUiams, September 13, 1 6" ; Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, elevation 3,000-7,000 feet, July 29August 2 (Calvert), September 11 and 12 (Hebard), 3 c?, 9 9 .
The specimens of the series present a considerable amount of varia' Trans.
Kansas Acad.
Sci., XX, pt.
2, p. 37. tion in size and the usual modifications of width and characters of tegminal bars, as well as differences in the general light base color.
As the variability of this species is almost endless, it is hardly necessary to call attention to any types except one which is suffused with ochraceousrufous, represented by all the Sonora Road Canyon specimens and faintly approached by one from Tucson, and a very dull type, represented by several from Bright Angel rim (7,000 feet) and the single individual from Wilhams.
Other specimens, however, from the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel are of normal contrast, and one is extremely contrasted with quite pale base color.
Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner.
A series of sixteen males and seven females of this species was taken at elevations ranging from 3,800 to 7,000 feet on and in the vicinity of the Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, September 11 and 12.
The majority of the specimens are strongly washed with reddish, the greater portion of these reddish specimens being from elevations not exceeding 5,000 feet, this being evidently due to a protective color modification influenced by the reddish exposure of that portion of the canyon walls.
A few individuals possess a more strongly contrasted coloration; the pale color being unsuffused and the bar groups darker.
These specimens are from 5,000 and 7,000 feet.
On comparing this series with that in the Academy collection I find that specimens from the northern portion of Arizona, south at least as far as Prescott, have the disk of the wings campanula blue in color, while individuals from the ranges of southeastern Arizona (Huachucas, etc.)
have the same area glaucous blue.
The difference is quite noticeable when the two types are compared.
This species makes at will a clatter similar to that of Circotettix verruculatus.
Especially when alarmed its flight is extremely swift and erratic.
It was not plentiful along the canyon edge, but lower on the Bright Angel Trail it was found almost everywhere, most plentiful, however, about bare places near precipices.
CIKCOTETTIX Scudder.
Circotettix undulatus (Thomas).
A series of seven males and nine females taken near the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel represents this species.
Two males and three females were taken July 29 to August 2, 1906, by Calvert, and the remainder September 11, 1907, by Hebard.
The sexes are of practically the same size, and the amount of individual variation of the same character is slight in a series of thirty-six specimens before us.
The general color varies from a decidedly blackish type to one distinctly dull reddish brown in general lone.
The previous Arizona records of this species were from Oak Creek Canyon and base of Humphrey's Peak, Coconino County.
This form was not uncommon in the open yellow pine groves near the hotel, while in other places it was very scarce.
Individuals of this species seem to be unable to fly without clattering.
In the afternoons it was not on the wing.
HADROTETTIX Scudder.
Hadrotettix trifasciatus (Say).
A single male of this species, collected by H. A. Kaeber, July 6, 1907, on the plains at the mouth of Ramsay Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, has been examined.
ANCONIA Scudder.
Anconia Integra Scudder.
At both Tucson and Yuma this species was encountered, five males and two females having been taken at the former locality on July 26 and twenty males and two females at the latter on July 27 and 28.
In size there is an appreciable amount of variation in the male sex, the four females being quite uniform.
All the females and four of the Tucson males are green; all the Yuma males and one Tucson male are hoary white or pale ochraceous more or less thickly overlaid with maculations of olive.
Several of the brownish specimens are very pale and but faintly maculate, while five are strongly marked, having the pronotal decussate markings pronounced.
The other brownish males are more or less intermediate between the two extreme types.
Tucson is the most eastern record for this species, the previously published Arizona records being from Phoenix and Bill William's Fork.
At Tucson this species was taken among high weeds both in damp and dry locations.
They were very wary and alert and when missed flew for some considerable distance.
A preference to alighting on the ground when pursued rather than on weeds and bushes was observed, though invariably first discovered among vegetation.
At Yuma it was found on the greasewood covered sand flats.
HELIASTXJS Saussure.
Heliastus aridus (Bruner).
This extremely variable species is represented by specimens taken at Tucson (July 26, 3 9), Sonora Road Canyon (July 25, 2 d^, 1 ?, 1 nymph), Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains (July 25, 1 ? )
and Roeble's Ranch (July 24, 1 6^, 1 9 ).
There is a great diversity in the size of the Tucson females, while the coloration is of the usual variability.
The three individuals from the Sonora Road Canyon are distinctly suffused with reddish, the males very strongly so, while the Tucson and Roeble's Ranch specimens have hoary white their most conspicuous color tone.
The Sonora Road specimen has as its general tint the peculiar blue gray often seen in this species.
This form was found to be a typical desert species, not noticed anywhere in numbers.
PHKYNOTETTIX Uhler.
Phrynotettix magnus (Thomas).
A pair of this species taken July 6 by H. A. Kaeber at Palmerlee and an immature male taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25, have been examined.
The Palmerlee male is labelled "Found under manure."
The Sonora Road Canyon specimen was found on a rocky hillside.
SCHISTOCERCA StM.
Scliistocerca vaga (Scudder).
At Tucson four males and two females of this species were collected July 26.
One female is quite dark in color with strongly contrasted pattern; the other of the same sex shows Uttle contrast and is pale dull brownish.
The specimens were found among wild sunflowers and other high plants.
In this situation indi\dduals were taken with far greater ease than others previously seen on the desert.
Schistocerca venusta Scudder.
A male and two females taken at Yuma, July 27 and 28, and a male taken at Winslow, Navajo County, September 13, represent this species.
The Winslow specimen is more olive and less greenish than the Yuma individuals.
At Yuma a few specimens were seen in the dry stand of arrow-wood on the banks of the Gila River.
The species was very plentiful at Winslow, in tall weeds about a water tank.
CONALCEA Scudder.
Conalosea huachucana Rehn.
A female of this species, collected at Palmerlee July 6 by Kaeber, has been examined.
HESPEKOTETTIX Scudder.
Hesperotettix festivus Scudder.
A series of twenty-two males, twelve females and one nymph represents this species.
The localities are: Tucson, July 26, 1 d^, 1 9 ; Sahuaro slope, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 24, 1 d^ ; Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25, 13 c?, 9 ?
, 1 nymph; Roeble's Ranch, July 25, 1 9 ; Williams, September 13, 1 c?, 1 9 .
In size but little variation is noticeable; the tegmina of the two Williams specimens, however, do not exceed the tips of the caudal femora.
Five specimens from Sonora Road are decidedly brownish, one strongly so, while all the others are shades of green, in a few cases with a faint bluish tinge to the tegmina.
Reddish pregenicular annuli are indicated more or less strongly on the caudal femora of all but three specimens, which latter are either in or approach the brownish phase.
The pale medio-longitudinal line on the pronotum is narrower in the Williams specimens than in a number of individuals from southern Arizona, This insect was one of the few species which was invariably found on or near rabbit-weed.
In the rabbit-weed tracts a number of specimens were often found in one small clump of the weed.
Relying on its protective coloration the insect often sought shelter in the center of the clump, but when frightened out of its retreat flew very swiftly on almost all occasions to another bunch of the same plant.
.ffiOLOPLTIS Scudder.
.ffioloplus tenuipennis Scudder.
At Tucson this species was found in weeds growing along an irrigating ditch and a series of six males and three females was taken on July 26, while at Yuma a single male was collected on July 27.
While agreeing with the original description in all essential points the Tucson individuals are decidedly larger than the type.
The extremes of the series measure as follows : Length of body, 17 Length of pronotum, Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, In color there is an appreciable amount of variation in the depth of the bars and maculations, the specimens with the base color dull ochre having the pattern more marked, while those with the same more yellowish have the pattern weaker.
The pink of the proximal twothirds of the caudal tibiae varies greatly in depth of color, being very delicate shell pink in some specimens and solferino in others with intermediates of various shades.
This species was described from Fort Grant, Graham County, Arizona, and has since been recorded from Bill William's Fork, western Arizona.
c?
?
17 -18.3 mm.
17 -19.3 mm, 4 4.5 " 4 4.9 " 15.5-19 " 15.5-17.2 " 9.5-10.2 " 9.8-11.2 " A single female in the Academy Collection was taken at Phoenix (October 4, 1900; Kunze).
.ffioloplus arizonensis Scudder.
In the vicinity of Yuma this species was not uncommon, a series of seven males, fifteen females and one nymph being taken July 27 and 28.
Among the high dry weeds on the flood plain of the Gila River fourteen specimens were taken and a number of others seen; one specimen was captured on the summit of a desert hill, one in cultivated alfalfa and seven were taken at night under arc lights.
There is a perceptible amount of variation in size, the length of the tegmina being quite variable; no specimens, however, having these members shorter than the type measurements, while the greater majority have them much longer.
The remarks made under ^Eoloplus tenuipennis regarding color variation apply as well to this species, though the paler specimens have the tegmina distinctly light grayish, while in one specimen the pale color on the head and pronotum is almost whitish.
This species has been recorded from Fort Wliipple, Yavapai County, Arizona, and the Mohave Desert, MELANOPLUS Stil.
Melanoplus flabellifer Scudder.
A series of six males and seven females of this species was taken at Williams, September 13.
All are typical of flahellifer, showing little or no tendency toward occidentalis or cuneatus.
The coloration is quite dark, the pattern much subdued.
There is some variation in the depth of the glaucous color of the caudal tibiae.
This is the first record of the species from Arizona.
All of these specimens were taken in a field of low vegetation.
The insects were inactive as the dew was yet on the ground.
The condition of a number of the specimens shows that their season was well advanced.
Melanoplus herbaceus flavesoens Scudder.
Two males of this form were taken at Yuma on July 28, one on cultivated ground, the other on desert growth.
The only previous record of this form from Arizona was from Bill Wilham's Fork, MohaveYuma County, specimens from Phoenix being intermediate between herbaceus and flavescens.
Melanoplus brownii Caudell.
This species was abundant locally at Tucson, where a series of twelve males and nineteen females were taken on July 26.
In size there is an appreciable amount of individual variation, the extremes of the series measuring as follows : (?
(^ 9 9 Length of body, .
.
.
Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, .
18.6 mm.
18 " 10.8 " 21.
.5 mm.
20 " 12.5 " 24.2 mm.
20 " 12.2 " 28.4 mm, 24.2 " 14.8 " The coloration is quite uniform, only a few specimens being more richly colored than the others, the caudal femora, however, being some shade of glaucous in all the series instead of ''yellowish brown" as originally described.
The female specimen recorded by Rehn as M. canonicus?
from Florence, Arizona,^" and those of the same sex from the Huachuca range recorded by him as M. flavidus^^ are referable to this species.
The absence of accompanying males was responsible for the erroneous identifications.
The Florence individual has since been compared with the types of brownii.
The range of this species now extends from Yuma up the Gila Valley to Phoenix and Florence, southward to Tucson, the Baboquivari and Huachuca Mountains.
The species was found at Tucson, frequenting high weeds near water and cultivated areas.
Melanoplus atlanis (Riley).
A male and two females represent this widely distributed species, the localities being Williams, September 13 (d"), Tucson, July 26 ( ?
), and SonoraRoad near Tucson Mountains, July 25 (9 ).
These specimens are distinctly larger than eastern individuals of the species, a fact previously noted by Rehn^^ in regard to Florence and Phoenix, Arizona, representatives.
The Sonora Road specimen has the coloration strongly contrasted.
Melanoplus aridus (Scudder).
A very interesting series of this species was taken at localities in northern Arizona, a region from which it was previously not reported.
Nine specimens from Williams, September 13, five males, four females, average about equal in size to individuals from Florence, Arizona, and are distinctly smaller than Scudder's measurements.
Three males and one female taken at Anita, September 11, show a further reduction in size, while a series of fourteen males and eleven females from 10 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, p. 572. "
Ibid., 1907, p. 54.
« Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 78. the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel, September 11, are veiy decidedly smaller than Scudder's measurements, some specimens being hardly more than half the size given by him.
The senior author recently called attention^^ to the size variability of this species, citing Huachuca Mountain individuals larger than the original measurements.
The coloration of the Grand Canyon series shows little yellowish, having grays and gray-browns predominating, while the Anita and Williams specimens are somewhat brighter, though by no means as strikingly colored as Florence, Arizona, individuals.
The yellow of the ventral surface is pure in some specimens and much soiled and washed with red brown in others.
At Williams and Anita this species was extremely common in the grassy open glades of the pine forest, while at Grand Canyon it was the most abundant species of Orthoptera and was found ever3Awhere in the undergrowth of the heavier pine woods.
It was noted to be a very swift jumper, but a series was easily taken on account of its abundance.
Melanoplus femur-nigrum Scudder.
This little known species is represented by a series of two males and three females taken September 11 at the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel.
Here it was taken on an open hillside heavily overgrown with a plant resembling rabbit-weed.
The only previous record of this species is the original one from San Francisco Mountains, July 30, but its range is more extensive as witnessed by a female in the Academy Collection labelled "Albuquerque, N.
Mex., July 13, Oslar."
It is quite probable that this specimen was taken in the mountains near Albuquerque, as it is hardly likely to occur in the distinctly Sonoran vicinity of the city.
Melanoplus femur-rubrum (DeGeer).
A male of this species was taken at Winslow, Navajo County, 4,848 feet elevation, September 13.
Melanoplus canonicus Scudder.
A series of two males and seven females, taken September 12 along or near the Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, represent this species.
These specimens were taken at altitudes ranging from 4,850 to 6,800 feet, one female alone being from above an elevation of 5,800 feet.
The species was found only in scattered growths of pinon and juniper, exhibiting a preference for the latter tree.
Specimens were found on the ground, in bushes and chnging to the twigs of juniper.
13 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1907, p. 51.
26 In size there is considerable variation in the series, all being smaller than Scudder's original measurements.
The extremes of the series in hand are as follows : d^ ^ 9 9 Length of body, .
Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, 17 mm.
15 " 10.5 '' 20.2 mm."
22.5 mm.
13.8 " 15.8 " 9.8 '' 11.5 " 27 mm.
18.2 " 13.4 " The distal portion of the furcula varies in the two males, being rather slender in one and comparatively thick in the other.
The majority of the specimens are strongly overcast with brownish, sometimes with a decided olivaceous tinge, only one specimen being "luteo-testaceous" as originally described.
In addition to the original record from the Grand Canyon, this species has been recorded from Bill Wilham's Fork by Rehn and from Tucson by Snow.
DACTYLOTUM Charpentier.
Dactylotum variegatum Scudder.
A male and two females of this species, taken July 6 on the plains at the east base of the Huachuca Mountains by H. Kaeber, have been examined.
TBTTIGONID^.
ARETHJEA St&l.
Arethaea sellata Rehn.
A male of tliis species, taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, July 15, by H. A. Kaeber, has been examined.
SCUDDERIA Stai.
Scudderia furcifera Scudder.
This species is represented by a male taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, July 6, by H. A. Kaeber.
MICI10CENTRUM15 Scudder.
Miorocentrum rhombifolia^^ (Saussure).
A single female of this species was taken at hght at Nogales, August 13, 1906, by Calvert. "
Abnormally distended. "
Kirby {Synon.
Catal.
Orth., II, pp.
4.55, 480) has transferred this generic name to the genus usually known as Stilpnochlora Stal, and in its place for Microcentrum of authors uses Orophus Saussure, 1859.
For the type of the latter he selects retinervis Burmeister (salicifolia Saussure), disregarding the fact that Relm (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, p. 808, March, 1906) some months previously had selected mexicanus as the type of Orophus.
In selecting a type 1908.1 399 G-RYLLID^.
NEMOBIUS ServiUe.
Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder.
• This species was taken at light at Tucson (July 23, 1 9 ) and Yuma (July 27 and 28, 3 9) and was decidedly scarce wherever it was encountered.
The Tucson specimen is appreciably larger than the Yuma individuals.
GRYLLUS Linnseus.
Gryllus personatus Uhler.
At Tucson this species came to light in great numbers the evenings of July 23 and 26, a series of twenty males and eighteen females being collected.
Size as usual exliibits a considerable range of variation, while several males are of a strongly megacephalic type.
As the proportions of the caudal femora and ovipositors and the measurements of the tegmina may prove of use to future workers, they are tabled below.
Proportions of caudal femur and ovipositor in eighteen females from Tucson.
or.
Caudal femur.
12 mm.
13.3 mm.
12.5 mm.
13 mm.
13.2 mm.
13.5 mm.
13.8 mm.
14 mm.
14.5 mm.
15 mm.
10 7 mm 1 11 11.3 " 1 1 11.5 " 11.7 " '"{" 1 12 1 12 2 " 1 1 1 1 1 12.5 " 13 2 for Microcenfrum Scudder, Kirby has been confused by the synonymy of the species and selected Steirodon thoracicus ServiUe as the t5^e, which was not included in Microcentrum by Scudder; the latter's Microcentrum thoracicum having been proposed independently, not being the same as thoracicus Ser\dlle or thoracica Burnieister.
Tliis is shown by lurby in his arrangement of the synonymy; but in selecting Ins type he has overlooked it.
In consequence it is necessary to select as the type of Microcentrum a species originally included in the genus and affiliatum Scudder (= rhombifolia Saussure) is so selected.
This is in accordance with Article 30 of the Revised International Code of Nomenclature.
1^ This name must be used in place of laurifolium of authors ; laurifolium of Linnseus, as shown by lurby {Synon.
Catal.
Orth., II, p. 456), being a Stilpnochlora.
400 [July, Measurements of caudal femur, tegmen and ovipositor.
Females {eighteen specimens).
Caudal femur.
Tegmen.
Ovipositor.
10.7 mm.
(2) 13 mm.
(8) 12 mm.
(1) 11 " (1) 13.2 '' (2) 12.3 " (1) 11.3 '' (3) 13.5 " (1) 12.5 '' (2) 11.5 " (1) 14 " (3) 13 " (5) 11.7 " (1) 14.2 " (2) 13.2 " (1) 12 '' (3) 14.5 " (1) 13.5 " (2) 12.2 " (4) 14.8 " (1) 13.8 " (2) 12.5 " (1) 14 " (1) 13 '' (2) 14.5 " (1) 15 " (2) Males (twenty specimens).
Caudal femur.
Tegmen.
10.5 mm .
(1) 12 mm.
(1) 11 " (1) 12.3 ' ' (2) 11.2 " (2) 12.5 ' ' (1) 11.5 " (1) 12.8 ' ' (1) 11.7 " (6) 13 ' ' (2) 12 " (3) 13.2 ' ' (1) 12.2 " (1) 13.5 ' ' (4) 12^5 " (2) 13.8 ' ' (5) 12.7 " (1) 14 ' ' (1) 13.8 " (2) 15 ' ' (1) 15.3 ' ' (1) The entire series of thirty-eight specimens is macropterous.
There is considerable variation in the depth of the coloration, some individuals having the head so much suffused with blackish that the usual pale occipital lines are not visible.
Gryllus armatus Scudder.
This species came to light abundantly at Yuma on the evenings of July 27 and 28, a series of nine males and forty-five females being collected.
A pair were also taken at Tucson, July 26, under the same conditions.
All the specimens collected are macropterous.
To assist future workers in this difficult genus measurements taken from the Yuma series are here given.
1908.
401 ength of tegmen.
Length of caudal femur.
Length of ovipositor 10 mm .
(1) 9.6 mm.
(1) 11.6 mm.
(1) 11.2 " (1) 10 '' (2) 11.8 ' (1) 11.6 " (2) 10.2 " (3) 12 ' (4) 11.8 " (3) 10.4 '' (2) 12.2 ' (3) 12 " (5) 10.6 " (7) 12.6 ' (3) 12.2 " (3) 10.8 " (2) 12.8 ' (7) 12.4 " (5) 11 " (15) 13 ' (6) 12.6 " (6) 11.2 '' (8) 13.2 ' (6) 12.8 " (5) 11.4 " (5) 13.4 ' (3) 13 " (7) 11.6 " (3) 13.6 ' (4) 13.2 " (3) 11.8 " (4) 13.8 ' (2) ISA " (4) 12 " (?)
14 " (3) 13.6 '' (6) 12.2 '' (1) 14.4 " (2) 13.8 " (3) Broken mone 14 '' (1) specimen.
Proportions of caudal femur and ovipositor in forty-five Yuma females.
Ovipositor.
Caudal femur.
11.6 mm.
11.8 mm.
12 mm.
12.2 mm.
12.4 mm.
12.6 mm.
12.8 mm.
13 mm.
13.2 mm.
13.4 mm.
13.6 mm.
13.8 mm.
14 mm.
14.2 mm.
14.4 mm.
10 mm 1 1 10.2 " 1 1 1 10.4 " 2 .... 10.6 " 1 1 10 8 " 1 1 1 11 " .... 1 5 3 1 1 1 1 t 11.2 " 3 1 1 1 11.4 " 1 11 6 " 11 8 " 1 13 " 1 1 ....1 i While the head is blackish in all the specimens, the pronotum is frequently quite reddish, in some individuals entirely so, which latter type is connected with that having the pronotum solid blackish by a considerable number of intermediates.
It was astonishing to note the numbers in which this species came to the arc lights, hundreds of them running about on the ground beneath the lights or flying swiftly around in circles.
MIOGRYLLUS Saussure.
Miogryllus pictus Scudder.
At Yuma on the evenings of July 27 and 28 this species frequented the vicinity of the electric lights in considerable numbers.
A series of fourteen males and sixteen adult and one immature female was taken.
There is an appreciable but not very great variation in the size of individuals of this species, while the coloration varies only in the suffusion of the pronotal markings; some specimens having them distinct and others having them clouded with a wash of the darker color.
The males without exception have the pronotum dark and the pattern not apparent.
This species was more agile than Gryllus armatus, with which it was associated.
(ECANTHUS Serville.
CEoanthus niveus (DeGeer), A single male of this species was taken near Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, at an elevation of about 4,900 feet, September 12.
It was taken from a weed resembhng rabbit-weed in the pinon zone.
(Eoanthus nigricornis Walker.
A single male from the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel, September 11, is referred tentatively to this species.
The antennal markings are not as complex as usual in the species, but the proportions and general coloration are nearly typical.
The individual was captured stridulating at night on the species of weed referred to under (E. niveus.
(Eoanthus quadripunotatus Beutenmiiller.
Four specimens taken at Tucson, July 23-26, are referred to this species, one male, a female, attracted to light, and two immature individuals.
NOTES ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF COLORADO MAMMALS, WITH A DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF BAT (EPTESICUS PALLIDUS) FROM BOULDER.
BY ROBERT T. YOUNG.
In the following article I propose (1) to discuss briefly the distribution of the mammals of the mountains of northern central Colorado in their relation to the life zones of that region;^ (2) to point out the apparent movement of some species relative to their centers of dispersal and to give a few facts regarding the little known distribution of certain forms in this State, and (3) to describe a new species of bat from Boulder.
(1) Distribution of mammals relative to the life zones of northern central Colorado.
In two recent papers by Ramaley^ and myself^ the life zones of the Rocky Mountains in this region, as determined by the flora, have been mapped out.
Does the mammalian fauna of the mountains show the same zonation as does the flora?
The zones as outlined by Ramaley are as follows : 1.
Plains Zone, below 5,800 feet.
2.
Foothill Zone, from 5,800 to 8,000 feet.
3.
Montane Zone, from 8,000 to 10,000 feet.
4.
Sub-alpine Zone, from 10,000 to 11,500 feet.
5.
Alpine Zone, from 11,500 to 14,000 feet.
The first of these not being a mountain zone may be omitted from our discussion.
The last four correspond to the zones which I, in accordance with the terminology of Merriam* and others, have specified as Transition 1,650-2,400 m., Canadian 2,400-2,850 m., Hudsonian 2,850-3,300 m. and Alpine^ 3,300-3,450 m.« ^ Where the records for any species number very few, I have usually omitted such species from this part of my discussion.
^ Plant Zones in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, Science, N. S., Vol.
XXVI pp.
642-3.
^ Forest Formations of Boulder County, Colorado, Bot.
Gaz., Vol.
XLIV, pp.
321-52.
* Life Zones and Crop Zones of the United States, Bull.
10, U S. Biological Survey.
^ Merriam applies the term Arctic-Alpine to this zone.
^Ramaley's terminology, as apphed to this particular region, is perhaps more desirable than that of Merriam; but for purposes of comparison -nith other regions, and for the sake of uniformity, I much prefer the latter.
While it is well known that an absolute delimitation of zonal areas in mountain regions is impossible, whether plants or animals are chosen as characteristics, still the zones as outlined above are fairly well defined by their plant inhabitants.
Of the mountain mammals of northern Colorado many range widely from timber line to the plains, and, with a few exceptions, there are none whose range is closely coincident with any one of the zones mentioned above.
These exceptions are the following: Sciurus dberti concolor, Citellus variegatus grammurus, Citellus elegans, Cynomys leucurus, Peromyscus truei nasutus, Neotoma jallax, and Spilogale tenuis in the Transition zone ; and Lepiis americanus bairdi, OcJiotona saxatilis and Phenacomys preblei in the Hudsonian zone.
The Canadian zone possesses no characteristic mammals.
Species ranging through both Hudsonian and Canadian zones, but mainly restricted to them, are the following: Evotomys gapperi galei, Microtus nanus, Gulo luscus, Mustela americana, Putorius streatori leptus and Putorius arizonensis.
Boreal species which include the Transition zone within their range ' are as follows: Cervus canadensis, vis canadensis, Sciurus fremonti, Eutamias am.oenus operarius, Eutamias minimus consohrinus^ Callospermophilus lateralis, Marmota flaviventer, Neotoma orolestes, Microtus mordax, Thomomys fossor, Thomomys clusius fuscus, Zapv^ princeps, Erethizon epixanthus, Sylvilagus pinetis,^ Felis hippolestes.
Lynx uinta, Ursus americanus, Sorex ohscurus, Sorex personatus, and Neosorex palustris navigator.
Vidpes macrourus should probably be included in this list, but as to its altitudinal limits I haA^e no definite information.
Sonoran species extending into the Transition zone are the following : Odocoileus macrourus, Antilocapra americana.
Mephitis mesomelas varians and Putorius longicauda.
Of general distribution through both Sonoran and Boreal regions may be mentioned the following species : Odocoileus hemionus.
Bison hison,^ Eutamias quadrivittatus , Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus.
Castor canadensis jondator, Peromyscus nebracensis, Peromyscus rufinus, Microtus pennsylvanicus modestus, Lepus campestris, Lepus townsendi, Canis sp.,^^ Taxidea taxus, Lutreola, lutreocephala energumenos and Putorius nigripes.
Both the wild cat and timber wolf ought probably to be included under ' Extends into the Sonoran.
^ Also Sonoran to some extent.
I have taken it 12 km.
east of Boulder on the hot barren plains. "
Now practically extinct. '"
The distribution of the different forms of coyotes through the mountains is not 3^et kno-\vn.
this last heading.
I have omitted them, however, because I have no information as to the species of each, and but little as to their distribution.
Thus we find the Alpine zone with no characteristic mammals, the Hudsonian with three, the Canadian with none and the Transition with seven, while there are six Boreal species (Cervus occidentalis, Eutamais m. consobrinus, Thomomys clusius fuscus, TJiomomys fossor, SyJvilagus pinetis and Neosorex palustris navigator) and one Sonoran-Boreal form {Eutamias quadrivittatus) which probably do not extend much above the Canadian zone, and six which seldom if ever extend below it.
In addition to the seven species characteristic of the Transition zone, we find this zone forming the lower limit of eighteen Boreal species and the upper limit of four Sonoran forms.
While the Alpine zone possesses many characteristic plants, on the mammalian side it is characterized chiefly by the paucity of its fauna, possessing not a single characteristic species.
The Hudsonian and Canadian zones have most of their mammals in common, while of the three species characteristic of the former zone, Ochotona saxatilis^^ invades the latter to some extent, while on the other hand it occurs in the Alpine zone in suitable places.
These facts bring out very clearly, I believe, the distinctness of Boreal and Sonoran regions in northern Colorado, as" based on the distribution of the mammals in this territory.
The Transition zone is, as its name imphes, a meeting ground of these two great regions, common to, and yet distinct from each.
They show further the intimate relation between Hudsonian and Canadian zones.
Using the mammals only as a criterion, I hardly believe w^e should be justified in separating these zones from each other; their characteristics are relatively much fewer than among the plants.
(2) The movement of some species relative to their centers of dispersal and notes on the httle known distribution of certain forms.
The occurrence of a species outside its proper habitat does not necessarily prove a migration on the part of that species from such habitat.
It may, on the contrary, mean that the species formerly had a more widespread distribution than at present, becoming secondarily restricted to its present habitat, with the exception of a few stragglers remaining in the territory formerly occupied by it.
This is a question which cannot, in most cases, be settled with our present lack " Warren, E. R. : The Mammals of Colorado, Colorado College Publications, Science Series, No.
46, p. 254, mentions the coney as occurring as low as 2,834 m. near Crested Butte.
of data regarding the former abundance of the species in the region in question.
Where, however, a typical plains form, as Putorius nigripes or Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus, is found in the higher mountains, I believe we are justified in concluding that they have migrated outside of their proper habitat.
Sciurus ludovicianus.
This species is now quite common in the neighborhood of Greeley, where I understand it has been introduced from Omaha.
It is also present in Denver.
Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus.
The presence of this spermophile at Divide,^^ altitude 3,000 m., and elsewhere in the mountains,^^ indicates a westward and upward movement of this species from its center in the Great Plains, probably dependent upon the presence of its physical habitat, the grass-sagebrush plains in some parts of the mountains, rather than upon temperature.
Peromyscus nebracensisThis is another plains form of Upper Sonoran and Transition zones which appears to be invading the mountains, judging by its occurrence at an altitude of 3,508 m.^^ and elsewhere through the mountains.
Phenacomys preblei.
The only record hitherto of this species is that given by Merriam^^ from Long's Peak.
I have taken a single specimen on North Boulder Creek at about 2,900 m. altitude.
This is the only specimen I have secured in spite of careful trapping in several places.
Spilogale tenuis.
I have taken a few of this species at Boulder, hitherto known only from Arkins and Estes Park.
Putorius nigripesThe occurrence of the black-footed ferret at an altitude of 3,124 m.^* indicates a probable migration on its part from its habitat on the plains into the mountains. "
Fide Warren (op.
cit., p. 242).
'^ Bailey, V: The Prairie Ground Squirrels of the Mississippi Valley, Bull.
4,.
U. S. Biol.
Survey, gives its western limits as approximately Twin Lakes. "
Fide Warren (op.
cit., p. 245). "
Merriam, C. H. : Phenacomys preblei, a New Vole from the Mountains of Colorado, Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash., Vol.
XI, p. 45. "
Fide Warren (op.
cit., p. 264).
Putorius longicauda.
This weasel invades the mountains also to some extent, as I have observed it in Boulder Canyon several miles above its mouth.
Sorex personatus.
The occurrence of this shrew in the Rocky Mountains as far south as Colorado extends considerably southward in these mountains the range of this northern and eastern form.
Its presence in the meadows about Boulder brings this Boreal species down to the edge of the Upper Sonoran zone.
Sorex personatus haydeni.
Warren^^ records a specimen of this shrew taken by him at Lake Moraine and identified by Merriam.
Inasmuch as haijdeni is a North Dakota plains form its occurrence in the Hudsonian zone on Pike's Peak is certainly interesting.
Have we here a marked case of migration, a case of polygenesis, or is haijdeni, as Elliott^^ believes, a synonym for personatusl Sorex vagrans dobsoni.
This is another interesting record given by Warren^^ and based on an identification by Merriam.
In iV.
A. Fauna, No.
10, p. 68, the latter gives the distribution of this shrew as parts of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming and Utah.
He says further in the same place: "The interrelations of dobsoni and obscurus are intricate and perplexing.
The two animals resemble one another very closely, but no intergrades have been found, and each has, so far as known, an independent distribution."
This record extends the range of dobsoni considerably southward, making it coincident, at this point at least, with that of obscurus.
Sorex obscuruB.
Merriam^" gives the distribution of this species as "Restricted to Boreal Zone."
Specimens collected by me at Boulder extend its range through the Transition zone.
Corynorbinus maorotis pallescens.
I have a specimen taken in Boulder Canyon at an approximate altitude of 2,300 m., which shows an occasional invasion of the Transition zone by this supposedly Sonoran species. "
Op.
cit., p. 265. , , ... ^^ Elliott D. G.: A Synopsis of the Mammals of North America and the Adjacent Seas, 'Field Columbian Museum, Zool.
Ser., II, 1901, p. 367. i» O-p.
cit., p. 266.
="> Op.
cit., p. 72.
Myotis lucifugus longicrus.
The only Colorado record of this bat which I have found is one by Miller^^ for Grand Junction.
I have taken it at Steamboat Springs, and have a badly mutilated skin from Eldora which is probably one of this species.
Myotis evotis.
The only Colorado record I have seen is one by Miller^^ from Loveland.
I have a specimen taken in the Yellow Jacket Mountains 21 km.
east of Steamboat Springs at an approximate altitude of 2,140 m. (3) Description of a new species of bat from Boulder.
Eptesicus pallidas sp.
n. Type No.
142,526 9 ad., collection of U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Collected by R. T. Young at Boulder, Colorado, July 22, 1903.
Distribution.
— Known from type locality only.
Diagnosis.
— Skull identical with that of Eptesicus fuscus.
Size largest of American species of the genus.
(iVverage total length of four specimens, all females, 124.
)^^ Color palest of American species of the genus, distinctly lighter than that of E. fuscus.
Color.
— Above brownish ashy, the basal half of hairs fuscous; below pale silvery gray, the basal half of hairs fuscous, with a narrow transition zone of brownish ashy between the inner and outer parts.
Dorsally and ventrally along the line of attachment, and on the surfaces of the membranes, the basal fuscous zone of the hairs disappears.
Measurements of Type.
— ^Total length, 127; tail, 50; hind foot, 12.
Skull, occipito-nasal length, 19; interorbital constriction, 4; zygomatic breadth, 13; upper tooth row, 8.5; palato-basi-occipital length, 15; mandible (from condyle to symphysis), 14; lower tooth row, 9.
Measurements (average of four females).
— Total length, 124; tail, 49; hind foot, 12.
'* Average of two females in alcohol: Ear from crown, 13.5; tibia, 20.5 ; forearm, 49; thumb, 8; longest "finger," 80.5 ;25 width of ear, 11.5; tragus (from posterior angle), 8.
Skull (average of three specimens), ^^ 18,5, 4, 12.5," 8, 14.5, 13.5, 9.
Remarks.
— While conclusions based on so small a number of specimens as I possess are necessarily uncertain, still I believe that, since ^' Miller, G. S., Jr.: Revision of the North ^\nierican Bats of the Family Vespertihonidae, N. A. Fauna, 13, p. 65.
22 Op.
cit., p. 80.
2^ All measurements in mm.
2* Average of five specimens including one male.
2^ From tip to base of phalanges not including carpus.
2" Measiirements given in same order as those of the type.
2' Average of two specimens.
specimens of Eptesicus fuscus from this region^^ have the color and size typical of the species, the new form must be considered as a distinct species and not merely a geographical race of fuscus.
The probable origin of this species is a matter of some interest.
Occurring in the same territory and occupying the same habitat as its near relative fuscus, neither the geographic isolation nor selection theory seem to offer a satisfactory explanation.
Neither the mutation nor orthogenesis theory finds any difficulty in these facts.
Moreover we have here an apparent exception to Jordan's law of geminate species.
Further information as to the distribution of this species is very desirable.^^ In conclusion I wish to thank the authorities of the Field Museum, the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the U. S. National Museum for the identification of much of my material; and the latter institution especially for its loan of valuable material.
^^ Loveland, fide Miller, op.
cit., p. 98.
A single skin without skull in my own collection from Boulder Canyon, approximate altitude 2,300 m., has the typical brown color of E. fuscus.
^' Miller, op.
cit., p. 99, says of fuscus: "Verj^ pallid specimens are occasionally taken in the Southwestern United States, but the number of skins available for comparison is so small that it is impossible to determine the status of the form wliich these aberrant individuals represent."
It is possible that these specimens are representatives of my new form, but not having seen them I cannot saj^
