A NOTE ON THE GENUS LOLLIGUNCULA.
BY S. S. BERRY.
In 1881 Professor Steenstrup, as a note to the French resume of his paper on " Sepiadarium og Idiosepius" (K. Danske Vidensk.
Selsk.
Skr., 6 R., I, 1881, p. 242), wrote as follows: " Le Loligo brevis de Blainv.
est pour moi le type d'un genre a part: Lolligunculo.
Parmi les especes connues du genre Loligo Lmk., cette espece, si bien caracterisee par ses nageoires epaisses, larges et tres courtes, formant dans leur ensemble un ovale transverse, est la seule dont les famelles recoivent les spermatophores sur la paroi interieure du manteau, a cote de la branchie gauche.
Le male du Loligo brevis, ainsi que celui du Loligo brevipinna Les., si ce dernier est reellement une espece distincte, ne m'etant pas connu, la place systematique du genre nouveau est pour moi encore un peu deuteuse."
L. brevis is an Atlantic form, but 1 have lately encountered a species from the opposite coast of Middle America which may prove to belong to the same genus.
Lolliguncula (?)
panamensis " sp.
Plate VI.
Body of moderate size, plump and compact for Loligo, resembling L. brevis of Blainville in general shape, but even wider and more swollen.
Mantle margin obtusely angled above, and produced forward more acutely on either side of the siphon; broadly emarginate below.
Fins large, rhomboid, with an obtusely rounded outline; more than half as long as the mantle; lobate in front, and barely continuous behind around the blunt posterior end of the body.
Mantle connectives large and prominent, but offering no especial peculiarities of structure.
Head small, much narrower than the body; squarish; deeply excavated below.
Eyes rather large, a low, transverse, membranous crest just behind them.
Siphon large and broad, much compressed, and supported by bridles.
Arms rather small, decidedly unequal; order of length 4 = 3, 2, 1 ; the dorsal pair considerably the smallest and shortest.
Suckers small, in two rows, obliquely set on short peduncles ; horny rings armed 1911.]
101 with 11-15 short, broad, squarely truncate teeth, which become nearly or quite obsolete on the lower edge.
All the arms except the ventral pair are connected at the base by a very short and thin umbrella.
Hectocotylization unknown.
Buccal membrane well-developed, seven-pointed, the four ventral points attached to the arms, but the three dorsal lappets free, except at the base, and armed at the tips with from 5 to 7 minute suckers.
Tentacles longer than the mantle ; club with four rows of suckers, the two inner the larger, but all becoming subequal and very minute distally ; horny rings of the large median suckers with from 23 to 27 rather small acute teeth, much reduced on the lower edge.
Gladius thin, very deep, with broad expanded wings, very much like L. brevis.
Fig.
1 .
— Lolliguncula (?)
panamensis, n. sp.
Dorsal and lateral aspects of gladius.
Chromatophores small, very evenly distributed over the body everywhere except on the under surface of the fins.
Habitat.
— Panama (Hopkins Expedition) ; Guayaquil, Ecuador (P. O. Simons).
Types in the Museum of Stanford University.
This is a striking species, differing so prominently from both its congeners in the same region (Loligo gahi d'Orbigny and L. diomedece Hoyle) that special comparison with these is quite unnecessary.
It certainly appears nearest to Lolliguncula brevis (Blv.
), but the specimens bear no spermatophores and hence is my uncertainty as to their true generic position.
The general form of the body and relative length of the arms among other features are essentially very similar, but the smaller size of L. brevis, its relatively shorter and more rounded fins, and sparser toothing of the horny rings are characters to be noted.
My comparison has been with typical L. brevis from the Brazilian 102 [Feb., coast and not the similar or nearly allied forms from the West Indian and Florida regions, which may or may not be the same species.
Specimens have been reported from the latter region which are apparently intermediate in character between Lolliguncula brevis and Loligo pealii.
Of such a nature are two very large adult females from Charlotte Harbor, Fla., in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, possibly the same as those in the same museum from the same locality Fig.
2.
Fig.
3.
Fig.
4.
Figs.
2-4.
— Camera drawings of homy rings from the suckers of the third arms of: 2 — Lolliguncula (?)
panamensis n. sp.
[58]; 3 — Lolliguncula brevis (Blainv.
), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil [46]; 4 — Loligo (?)
sp., Charlotte Harbor, Fla. [54].
Fig.
7.
Figs.
5-7.
— Camera drawings of horny rings from the tentacular suckers of: 5 — Lolliguncula (?)
'panamensis; 6 — Lolliguncula brevis; 7 — Loligo (?)
sp., Charlotte Harbor, Fla. listed as L. brevis by Verrill (Ceph.
N. E.
Amer., 1881, p. 345).
Here the fins are somewhat sagittal in shape, very much as in juvenile L. pealii; the animal is much larger; the gladius has a longer and narrower blade than the Brazilian brevis, and there are two lateral thickenings on each wing; the horny rings of the sessile arms have from 8 to 13 elongate, squarely truncate teeth on the upper margin (in L. brevis they are nearly obsolete), while those of the larger tentacular suckers have about 24 large, acute teeth alternating with nearly as many minute interstitial ones.
Unfortunately, the specimens bore no spermatophores.
It may be that further material will show that these represent but an extreme form of L. pealii, but it is not altogether impossible that the brevis-hemiptera-brevipinna group includes a number of well-defined races, geographically separated but confused in the literature.
In conclusion it may be well to call attention to the fact that the male of L. brevis, which has again and again been stated in the literature to be unknown, was well described by Professor Steenstrup himself in his famous paper on Hectocotylus Formation.
1 In the specimens available to me the details of hectocotylization are made out with difficulty, but I can at least confirm his observations.
Only the distal portion of the left ventral arm is affected, as in Loligo.
The first 18 to 20 pairs of suckers are normal.
From this point on the suckers of the dorsal (outer) row undergo rapid modification and become degenerated to rather large flattish papillae.
The suckers of the ventral row are but little modified and persist to the tip of the arm.
Thus we are still unable to distinguish the genus Lolliguncula from the genus Loligo by any important character save that the female of the former receives the spermatophores of the male upon a calloused patch within the mantle near the left gill, whereas in Loligo they are received on a pad below the mouth.
Explanation of Plate VI.
Lolliguncula (?)
panamensis n. sp.
— Tentacle club and dorsal aspect (nat.
size) of type.
Drawn by Miss Lora Woodhead.
1 See English reprint in Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(2), XX, 1857, p. 86.
104 [Feb., 2 r — i i CO to /-n a> ■ co -* i> t^ 00 CO o CM t> Of o >o ■* r^ CO "* 10 <o ^o 1 1 b CO i— i t^ •* co i— i b co GO 00 i< CM rH 6 "3 03 1-9 b co •o CM OS •—< io de 3407.
•o b -* oo i— 1 P*^ "1 CO i— i 1— I 1 °s 1 O »o •e» |N CO as co s~ • ott^ -* co *o 1* ■o 1 CH© CO f— 4 IO o ^ oco 00 CM OS as co OlIO co CM 5— Of o ■O •o 00 ~—y oo T— 1 •■S» ens es.
lift T-4 •o o ott^ 3 -+ 1— 1 i-H o ^ -f *-H c co i— i r^ CM iC CO t^ c i—i 1 CO 1— 1 r— -1oe CC CN ■«* Th IO •o CO -* 03 o "3 el O Of a -O 01 sa !
r 1 £ S > go C r£ 1 _ c si « i ?
a a ID X CD 1 -ta -*i XI i t !
2 !
f !
1 !
e !
1 71 +2 « 1 2 1 r 2 rJ • 4 i a > X a > !
J bC E+.
4 si '^_ =4< ^»4 <4i t4 UC4H a C !
^ .
c > I c 1 "c j c ) C ) C > c ) c ) o O — ^ ^ : -c ^ X ,o > p£ " +1 > — +■ * -i* -i■ -t> -4) -4^ a3 b D +■ > +.
; b o +■ : b D b C b b C b C bfi -u £ : 3 !
T c 1 £ ' e I C : e : p < r : d o H a > £ 1 P ' '$ s > S 1 P : 5 ) a } a > a ) H J a > a i H 1 1911.]
105 e CO c~t 1 • CD as fcr t-i oi >>o H M S r— ii ir— i GO0C t"5" NNOMeCOOSH® to >o >c -riO-t H ^t | iOiC'-t < iO»0 i2j I — II — II — 1 ot-S.c+ ^y 05 ^ .
71 OfC+OtOfOO fb^foOf-H. o HNffl^COONOO OIOONhhhON -* ccoo-f-t-+Tr'*-*i Tt< cocccocccocococc o CD +3 03 o "co ~ ■N o ^h 1—* 0> ^-j |—j o o TJ o o S!
O S3 41 .
a .
a 0) 13 U> s jf3 .
.
3 o £ >-> >s O '-s O do' do" 3= 2 2 5 2 = 5 ^ CO 2 h?
h4 iC ox 1—1 ■J.
73 cu T3 T3 -S o o O-," co CDCD~ "D X C * x 2 CD QJ ® o O w § .3 * a.o "3: " >i" ~ " h-i 33 ^ O 03 r* a eu X H 2 .
i E Sh O T3 a -3 I-.'
O o3 3 CO ~ « «^H P =S Jo ■H o o .s no 53 w CD K?
03 '5 1-8 -s 5 O o3~ S -a 5S o3 o3 3 PL, O * ^ 2 2 2 2 2 2 c3 o3 Ph oqo 6 W2 i| 1 3 • ■•H 05 o Ogfi CN -H ^H TO CO iO TO §3 -tf 1 CN -* CM CM ^H g r— 1 cN O3 !Z5 1 00 1 i e •~ C S e =s t^ft 1 CO C3 e^ Oh a fl > — j ^-i CO C^ & S ~ 03 — o ^5 S ^^ ^^ -+-* »5 F^^ © o O ^ ^ ^ u o o3 Oi bC -c 03 o <u o3 >> a o u V cu u CD -O CD ^O c MICRO-SPECTROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS.
BY F. J. KEELEY.
Since Sorby devised the micro-spectroscope, nearly fifty years ago, an immense amount of work has been done with this instrument, but principally in the study of organic coloring matters in solution or section, which could be examined by transmitted light.
It was understood that the micro-spectroscope could likewise be employed in examining objects by reflected light, but this phase of its utility has been almost completely neglected.
With transmitted light, it produces results from very minute quantities of material, but otherwise offers little advantage over an ordinary spectroscope of low dispersion.
With reflected light, it is also applicable to the study of small quantities, but has a number of additional advantages.
Absorption bands are usually more distinct; a small crystal on a mineral specimen or a gem embedded in an opaque setting may be examined without disturbing or damaging it ; and phenomena such as iridescence on opaque substances may be studied.
The microscope employed in connection with this instrument should always be a binocular, which permits the object to be examined through one tube while the spectroscopic ocular is applied to the other.
The illumination should preferably be rather brighter and whiter than is generally necessary for the examination of opaque objects, and is best concentrated by means of a parabolic silvered reflector attached to the objective.
For preliminary examinations, the older form of micro-spectroscope, as made by Browning or Beck, is preferable, as very faint bands are more readily noted in its short bright spectrum, but for further study and recording the spectra, the Zeiss model, with photographed scale, is more desirable.
There are two classes of spectra that can be advantageously studied under the conditions specified, those showing absorption bands, which permit the identification of certain minerals and gems; and interference spectra, which assist in determining the cause of luster and iridescence.
Of the first class, the characteristic spectrum of didymium is the best known and most useful.
While didymium has been resolved into two elements, neodymium and praseodymium, for the present purpose the absorption bands which have become classical as those of didymium can be regarded as indicating the presence of the whole group, including cerium, lanthanum, erbium and terbium, the last two of which likewise have characteristic spectra of their own, not usually visible in minerals to be considered.
Under most favorable conditions, the spectrum of "didymium" contains nine absorption bands, centering at about the following wave lengths, .675, .622, .591, .575, .532, .521, .508, .480, .471 micron, the first two of which, in the red, are not usually visible in a solution or section examined by transmitted light, but quite distinct when a crystallized salt or a mineral such as lanthanite is viewed by reflected light.
Position of bands is given as determined by the photographed wave-length scale on Zeiss micro-spectroscope, which was itself adjusted on the D line from a sodium flame, and is probably sufficiently accurate for the purpose.
For reference, all spectra should be recorded diagrammatically on paper ruled with lines corresponding to the scale, showing width of band, whether edges are sharp or misty and whether the darkest part of band is central or eccentric.
In determining the presence of this element, it is of course unnecessary that all the bands be visible.
If two or three, including the strongest at junction of yellow and green, can be seen and their postion accurately measured, it is sufficient.
Many of the minerals characterized by the "didymium" spectrum occur in microscopic crystals, sometimes not sufficiently well developed to determine with certainty, but if the presence of these absorption bands demonstrates that the mineral is one of the comparatively few which contain the cerium group, there will always be sufficient indications of its identity from color, luster or such few crystal faces as may be present.
In this manner, I have been able to confirm the discovery of monazite in Delaware County, where but a few small crystals have been found, and likewise to identify microscopic crystals of parisite from a new locality in New England.
Another element which shows a characteristic spectrum in most of its compounds is uranium, the several equidistant absorption bands in the blue end of spectrum, assisting in determining poorly crystallized microscopic occurrences of such minerals as autunite and torbernite.
A mineral that has afforded material for extensive study of spectra is zircon, which has long been known to show absorption bands, the cause of which seems unexplained.
These bands center at about wave lengths .687, .650, .615, .586, .561, .538, .508, .478 and .455 micron, and have been attributed to the presence of the cerium group of elements, but a comparison of the spectra will demonstrate that this cannot be the case, as not a single band occupies a similar position.
Another writer refers to them as "the characteristic spectrum of zircon," which is likewise incorrect, as a large proportion of the varieties of zircon show no trace of them.
Neither are they due to the coloring matter which gives various tints to this mineral, for except in the case of the red variety, known as hyacinth, these colors are discharged by heating without affecting the spectrum.
Having examined more than fifty varieties and colors of zircon, natural crystals and cut gems, many of them both before and after bleaching by heat, can generalize somewhat as follows: In no case have I seen a trace of absorption bands in the spectra of the red hyacinth variety or in the colorless microscopic crystals which can be picked out of magnetic and goldbearing sands from many localities.
They are generally likewise absent in crystals of brown and gray tints, while in the transparent gem varieties from India and Ceylon, those of the characteristic pinkish-brown and yellow tints sometimes shoAv a complete spectrum, sometimes only a few bands and occasionally none whatever.
When bleached by heating, the spectrum is unchanged.
The strongest and most distinct absorption bands are shown by those stones more or less green in color which become very pale blue after heating.
A similar strong spectrum is shown by the microscopic bluish zircons occurring in Vesuvian lava, but no trace of it in the opaque white varieties from the Laacher See and the Azores.
It would therefore seem that the spectrum sometimes shown by this mineral is due to the same cause, whatever it may be, that produces a faint blue tint, whether this is originally visible or veiled by other coloring matter which can be bleached by heat.
As at least a few of the bands are almost always visible in the spectra of the varieties of zircon employed as gems, except the red, they afford a means of identifying the stone when set.
If loose, its high specific gravity is sufficient for the purpose.
Red garnets likewise have a readily distinguished absorption spectrum, including three broad and one narrow band, centering about wave length .618, .578, .520 and .500 micron.
This is unquestionably due to the color, possibly manganese, as it is not shown by garnets of other tints than red, but is remarkably constant in all the varieties used as gems.
Examination of over a hundred from all parts of the world, including spessartite, almandite and pyrope, as well as varieties, such as the beautiful "rhodolite" from North Carolina, which include both the almandite and pyrope molecules, showed no important exception, hence this spectrum will serve to identify a red garnet with practical certainty.
Red spinels show no absorption bands in their spectra.
The ruby exhibits an interesting spectrum consisting of a very narrow bright line between two absorption bands, at wave length .69 micron in the extreme red.
A careful search of the literature of the subject has enabled me to find no evidence that this spectrum had been previously observed and recorded, but whether new or old, it is most characteristic, not only of typical rubies, but of every variety of corundum that contains a trace of red in its coloration, including the various shades of pink and amethystine sapphires, even when so pale as to appear colorless with artificial light, star rubies, Montana sapphires of pinkish cast and even corundum from North Carolina and other localities, which has a pink tint.
The remainder of the spectrum may vary, all except the red being absorbed by deep colored oriental rubies, or all the colors visible in light tinted varieties, but the narrow bright band in the red remains the same.
This spectrum is unquestionably due to chromium, the coloring matter of the ruby, as it is likewise found in examining artificial rubies which owe their color to the same element.
It affords an infallible test for distinguishing a ruby from a garnet, spinel or tourmaline of similar color, and is applicable to stones in deep mountings or even if covered by a plate of glass.
The artificial ruby is the only other stone giving a similar spectrum, and it can readily be distinguished by means of the microscope alone.
A number of other precious stones exhibit fainter but nevertheless characteristic spectra.
Blue and violet spinels show two narrow and fairly sharp lines in the yellow and green, and, as in the case of the ruby, this spectrum is very persistent, the bands being scarcely less visible when the stone is almost colorless than from one of deep color.
It is particularly available as a means for easily distinguishing pale amethystine spinels from sapphires of identical color frequently found mixed in same paper of Indian cut stones.
Among green gems, the emerald exhibits a faint line in the red and a broader shadowy band occluding the orange and yellow.
Green garnet or demantoid, often sold as " olivine," has two very faint bands in the red, which coalesce into one when the stone is deep in color, while the true olivine or peridot shows two bands in the blue and violet, which, although rather broad and well-defined, are usually extremely difficult to see, owing to the comparatively small amount of light of the shorter wave lengths transmitted by this mineral.
In studying the luster and iridescence shown by various natural objects, it must first be considered to what causes they may be due, which include: Simple reflection, as in the case of minute pyrite crystals sometimes used in jewelry.
Refraction and dispersion, generally accompanied by internal reflection and sometimes by absorption, which account for the brilliancy and colors shown by dew drops, frost crystals and most cut gems.
Scattering of light from microscopic particles, to which the blue color of the sky is due.
Polarization, which frequently accompanies the other phenomena, but is rarely responsible for natural colors.
If translucent tourmaline enclosed in quartz or mica happens to be examined in the polarized light from the sky at right angles to the direction of the sun's rays, it may act as an analyzer, and if the film of the including mineral between it and the source of light be of suitable thickness, show bright colors.
Diffraction, or the interference resulting from fine, uniformly spaced lines or dots, which has been credited with being the cause of many iridescent effects, with which it rarely has anything to do.
The small crustacean Sapphirina, which is said to sparkle like a gem when swimming in the sun light, has a shell covered with fine markings similar to those on Pleurosigma angulatum, which no doubt cause these brilliant colored reflections by diffraction, and the chatoyance of star sapphires and cat's-eyes may be due largely to diffraction resulting from the symmetrically arranged inclusions.
It must not be overlooked, however, that to produce color effects by diffraction, the light must come from but one direction, and the color will vary through the entire spectrum with changes in the angle of incidence.
There is one more cause to which these effects may be attributed, and to which investigation will show that practically all iridescence is due, and that is the interference produced by reflection from thin films, which can be advantageously studied with the micro-spectroscope.
Such interference colors generally show dark bands in the spectrum, one in the lower order colors produced by thin films and two or more as the films become thicker so that additional wave lengths interfere.
For comparison, records should be made of the spectra of all the brighter colors, which can be done by observing them in the "Newton's rings" produced between two surfaces of glass or by blowing a bubble of melted glass until it bursts when the thin edges will answer the same purpose.
If the natural iridescent surfaces shown by many minerals be now examined, similar interference bands will be noted in the spectra, assuring us of the cause of iridescence and permitting the thickness of the film to be calculated if the refractive index of the mineral be known.
This is shown particularly well on the iridescent surfaces which sometimes appear on dendritic inclusions of magnetite in mica from Delaware Co. Penna.
One such surface of uniform pink color gave a spectrum with two dark bands, centering at about wave lengths .545 and .457 micron, corresponding to a red of the fifth order, and indicating a thickness, if we assume the film to be a hydrate of the composition of goethite, of about .53 micron or .000021 inch.
In a similar manner the colors reflected by scales of hematite, to which the chatoyance of varieties of feldspar known as "sun stone" is due, can be proved to result from the thinness of the films.
The oligoclas from Tvedestrand, Norway, frequently contains films of sufficient size and uniformity of thickness to produce sharp interference bands.
Some hypersthene as well as other minerals showing aventurine reflections contain similar inclusions, but not always of the same mineral.
The common aventurine or gold stone used in jewelry is an artificial glass which owes its brilliancy to reflections from enclosed crystals of metallic copper.
There is no class of objects furnishing better examples of brilliant iridescence than the scales of butterflies, and this is generally attributed to the fine lines and markings with which they are covered, which cannot be the case, as such markings could only cause color effects by diffraction, and the limitations to this cause have already been mentioned.
It is true that diffraction effects may be obtained from these scales when held in a certain position with respect to the light, particularly when they have been mounted on glass for examination by transmitted light, but the colors thus produced which undergo changes according to the angle of the illumination are not the characteristic colors of the scales as seen in position on the insect, which are equally well shown in diffused light.
Furthermore, it will be found that in many butterflies the scales showing metallic colored reflections are not the ordinary lined scales, but are apparently specialized for their purpose, showing no fine markings, but merely rather coarse longitudinal corrugations.
When examined under the micro-spectroscope, most butterfly scales are not sufficiently uniform in color to give pronounced interference bands, but a darkening of the spectrum in some one position may usually be noted, and in the particularly brilliant blue spots on the wings of Papilio parts, a distinct black band is shown, having its center at about wave length .588 micron.
The position and width of this band correspond to that in the spectrum of blue of the third order, and accordingly may be accepted as indicating a film about .58 micron in thickness, the film being assumed to be of air or gas enclosed within the chitine of the scale, and not consisting of chitine itself, in which case it would be over a third thinner.
The reason for this assumption lies rather in analogy with the results obtained from study of the scales of beetles than in the behavior of the butterfly scales themselves.
It is well known that if a portion of a diamond beetle is mounted in balsam, the iridescent reflections from the scales are more brilliant than when examined dry, but if the scales be scraped from such a beetle and then mounted in balsam, most of them will become perfectly colorless, w T hile here and there may be one still retaining its iridescence.
A further examination will show that such colored scales are perfect, while the others have all been more or less broken in removing them, indicating that the iridescent film occupied an internal interval, which was penetrated by the balsam in all broken scales, but remained unimpaired as long as no such penetration could be effected.
If the iridescent feathers of birds be next examined, the resemblance of their brilliant metallic reflections to those of butterfly scales would seem to justify the expectation that this is due to a similar cause, but this predication will be contradicted by an examination of their spectra.
For instance, the spectrum from a ruby-tinted, iridescent humming-bird feather shows no dark bands, but on the contrary a single bright band, including part of the red and orange, and reference to the record of spectra previously made proves that there can be no color resulting from interference caused by a single film that could produce such a spectrum.
We can, however, readily understand the probable cause of this color by first considering to what the colors in precious opal are due, a subject that has been elucidated by high authorities.
In selecting opals for this investigation, those presenting patches of uniform color are to be preferred, and the best will be found among the so-called black opals which have recently become popular as gems.
I have examined a large number of these, both in polished specimens and microscopic sections, as a result of which it is evident that they consist of precious opal, which by some convulsion of nature has been shattered to fragments, which were subsequently re-cemented by a further deposition of opal of a gray or black color, which serves to render the reflections more brilliant by cutting out all extraneous light.
In the absence of such black opals, a good substitute can be prepared by grinding a thin section of ordinary precious opal and backing it with India ink.
Some opals in a dark matrix, likewise serve admirably.
On examining the colored reflections with a micro-spectroscope, instead of a spectrum with a dark band in the position of the complimentary color, which characterizes the interference spectrum from a thin film, we find only a narrow band of same color as that shown visually.
This has been explained by Lord Rayleigh as being due to the successive action of numerous parallel films of a thickness of the same order as the wave lengths of light, an explanation first applied to the similar colors reflected by certain crystals of potassium chloi ate, in which the films are known to be due to repeated twinning.
To what they are due in opal is not known, but under favorable conditions they may become quite visible, although I have hitherto been unable to distinguish them in sections at right angles to the laminae.
In one specimen of opal reflecting a brilliant green color have been able to count laminae 38,000 to the inch, and as they appeared to be at an angle of about 45° to the plane of the section this would correspond to over 50,000 to the inch at right angles to the plane of lamination.
The manner in which the colors of opal have been accounted for justifies the application of same explanation to the iridescent feathers previously referred to, which show bright-band spectra, although I have seen none in which the band was as sharp and narrow as in the opal, whose colors are probably the purest shown by any natural object.
It will not be safe, however, to apply the same reasoning to all feathers, for Nature does not hesitate to use various means to the same end.
An illustration of this will be found in another hummingbird feather, which in general structure corresponds to that already mentioned, except that the reflections are blue in color, but at the end of each pinnule there is a single filament which glows with a most brilliant ruby color and shows a spectrum not unlike that of the other ruby-tinted feather, but on examining a balsam-mounted specimen with transmitted light, the color and spectrum are the same as by reflected light, proving that it is due to absorption and not to interference.
The brilliancy will be accounted for by examining sections of the filaments, which prove to be somewhat rounded trigonal prisms, with an edge facing outward, so that light striking either side is returned by internal reflection from the back ; or, in other words, Nature has here employed the same method that a skilful lapidary would 8 use in cutting a cabochon ruby to bring out its brilliant color to best advantage.
There are other minerals beside opal which show colored reflections due to successive laminae.
The "moon stone" from Delaware Co., Penna., consists of triclinic feldspar, albite or oligoclase, and the opalescence is shown on the face parallel to the laminae due to repeated twinning, and only on such specimens in which the laminae are extremely fine.
The reflections from this mineral vary from a pearlywhite to sky-blue, but in the closely related labradorite they assume all tints, although never as pure as in the case of the opal, probably owing to the less uniform spacing of the laminae, although these are thin enough to account for the colors.
Labradorite sometimes likewise shows entirely different reflections corresponding to those of "sun stone" and due to the same cause, interference resulting from single thin films of included minerals.
The chatoyance of Ceylon "moon stone," frequently cut as a gem, cannot be accounted for in a similar manner, as it consists of adularia, a variety of orthoclase, which does not contain twin laminations, but on examining a section at right angles to the opalescent face, with polarized light and comparatively high powers, a very fine microperthite structure, due to intergrowth with a small percentage of another feldspar, becomes apparent.
The micro-spectroscope is of no help here, as the spectra show no characteristic appearances, but the fact that the reflected blue light from one of these "moon stones" is partially polarized raises the question whether it may not be due, at least in part, to the scattering of light such as causes the blue color of a clear sky, and the microscopic texture of the mineral seems better calculated to produce this effect than it does to produce the color by any known form of interference.
If authorities be consulted as to the cause of the luster of pearls, the explanation given will be generally found to be that it is due to the breaking up of the light by reflections from minute corrugations with which the surface of the pearl is covered.
This explanation, originally given by Sir David Brewster, has been copied by all the writers in whose works I have been able to find a reference to the subject.
Brewster made an extended investigation of the phenomena shown by pearl shell in the form of plates and sections, and finding that light from a contracted source produced undoubted diffraction effects when reflected from the surfaces of such pieces of pearl, concluded that the fine wavy or'serrated parallel lines which he discovered were largely responsible forlthe pearly luster, without apparently giving due consideration to the facts that this luster was likewise present in diffused light and that the lines described might not necessarily be present in an undamaged pearl, but were due to cutting a section through the lamina?
which produced them.
Brewster's own description of his investigations proves that he did not overlook the light reflected from the laminae of the pearl, but he does not appear to have regarded it as differing from ordinary reflected light, and paid most attention to the effects of diffraction, which he distinguishes from the reflected light by the term "communicable colors" because they could be communicated by pressure to another surface of softer material.
Later writers, however, seem to have regarded only the lines whose influence on the true luster of a pearl is negligible.
I have one shell of the so-called pearl oyster, Meleagrina margartifera, apparently in its natural condition, which in places shows comparatively coarse parallel lines on its surface, but have examined numerous pearls without finding any such lines present, although under high powers of the microscope the surface is by no means smooth, but as soon as a small facet was ground on the pearl the typical wavy lines appeared and could be seen side by side with the unabraded surface in same field of view.
Furthermore, the brilliancy of a pearl section is increased by mounting in balsam, instead of being suppressed, as would be the case were it due to corrugations on the surface, and if a nearly diametrical section of a round pearl is observed by reflected light, the pearly luster will be confined to a small spot near the center, where the laminae are approximately parallel with the surface of the section.
Brewster mentions that the distance between the grooves varies from a two hundredth to a five thousandth part of an inch, while Carpenter states that they may be as close as a seventy-five hundredth of an inch, both measurements evidently made on oblique sections, as I have carefully counted the laminae in a section of Unio pearl at right angles to the surface and found them to range between 54,000 and 57,000 to the inch.
This brings the luster of pearls within the range of Lord Rayleigh's explanation of colors due to repeated laminae, which deduction may be confirmed by the micro-spectroscope.
In round pearls used as gems the patches of color are generally too small and intermingled to permit of satisfactory investigation in this manner, but in sections of pearl shell places can readily be found where the laminae are nearly parallel to the surface and sufficiently flat to exhibit an area of uniform color large enough to produce a good spectrum, and the single bands of color shown are sometimes almost as sharp as those from opal, proving that the colors are due to the repeated parallel laminae and not to the lines or corrugations, although the latter may be the only visible indications of structure when viewed with the microscope in the usual manner.
While they probably know or care little about optical science, the fabricators of false gems have not failed to note the resemblance between the colors of pearl shell and those of opal, and an imitation of opal used in cheap jewelry is made by cementing a thin section of pearl shell between two rounded and polished pieces of glass.
VARIATION IN SOME JAMAICAN SPECIES OF PLEURODONTE.
BY AMOS P. BROWX.
C. B. Adams, in his Contributions to Concholoyi/, No.
1 1 .
published in 1852, gives some " Hints on the Geographical Distribution of Animals," in which he points out that "each species occupies one geographical area only; but, inasmuch as natural types are of all grades of value, the difficulty of discriminating species is great.
The difference between some types which inhabit distinct areas is slight and in some cases perhaps impossible to demonstrate; nevertheless, they should be regarded as distinct species.
Still it may occur that exceptions to this rule exist, and frequently a number of pairs of such analogues from distinct areas may be so arranged that the amount of difference between each two shall successively diminish from species that are very distinct to species that are scarcely distinguishable, and at last the series shall terminate in two forms quite indistinguishable from each other; that is, in one species.
These areas of species vary from a few miles to several thousand miles.
Areas of insular terrestrial species, excepting those with the power of flight, do not usually exceed the islands they inhabit, and where the islands are separated by 100 miles or more of water examples of species common to two or more are rare."
In a previous article, published in the Contributions, No.
10, 1851, "On the Nature and Origin of the Species of Terrestrial Mollusca of the Island of Jamaica," he says: "Among the terrestrial shells, typical forms exist in great profusion.
These forms are of every conceivable grade of value, from varieties up to genera and families.
They have also a determinable geographical distribution.
.
.
.
The island in this respect is a miniature continent."
In considering the nature of the species, Adams remarks: "Our first conclusion is this: that in many groups the species are distinguishable by types only and not by well-defined limits.
This may be illustrated by a figure.
in which species are represented by circles, many of which are in contact and whose areas are sprinkled irregularly with dots which represent the varieties.
One central dot represents the type of the species.
... On the boundaries of the species we find varieties which closely resemble their neighbors in the adjacent species, while their affinities with the central types of both species are so nearly balanced that it is not really a matter of much consequence on which side of them the imaginary boundary line of the species is drawn.
.
.
.
It should be observed that the boundaries of the circles do not represent any facts which have an objective existence.
With the boundary lines we represent the species as described in books; without them we see the species as they exist in nature."
" Since the sub-types of species are distributed with great regard to locality, it is obvious that much perplexity which results from the graduation of species into each other is avoided by those travellers who take but a few specimens from distant localities and by those collectors who are satisfied with a single, well-characterized specimen of each species.
Such collections are valuable as exhibiting types, but they very imperfectly represent the relations of types."
When we consider that Adams wrote these articles almost a decade before the publication of the Origin of Species, we must be struck by the modern view of a species which he takes.
It was forced on him by the great variability exhibited in the land snails of Jamaica, which he was studying.
In the foregoing paragraphs he lays down the general principles of their variation as he saw it and points out the necessity of collecting large series of specimens if we would become acquainted with the relations of the forms to each other.
Thus he says that each species occupies one geographical area, and, as he found in this island, these areas may be small.
If we only compare selected types from isolated areas the differentiation of the species is easy; but when we disregard the artificial limits we set for one species and examine not selected specimens, but large series, " we see the species as they exist in nature."
They vary from station to station, from one set of conditions to another.
Tracing the same species from one place to another or finding it living under different environments, the variations represented by the dots on his hypothetical diagram grade one into another and, as he points out, we see that " our circles (which include the species) do not represent any facts which have an objective existence;" in other words, our species are purely subjective.
The case is perhaps not quite as bad as might be judged from the above, for the examination of a large series of specimens from a single locality may show all grades of variation between the central type and the surrounding forms; or, on the other hand, it may show a remarkable uniformity in the entire series, with only variations in the dimensions.
Thus, in one subspecies considered in this paper, forms from a single locality could be selected, which, if reported from different zoological provinces, or even neighboring islands, would be given distinctive specific names by any systematist, and yet may have come from a single hill slope where the animals were free to migrate from one part to another.
But, on the other hand, in another species which we might examine from the same locality we would find great uniformity in a large series of specimens.
Adams also calls attention to the fact that an insular fauna resembles a continental fauna in little, "the island is a miniature continent."
"Among the terrestrial shells typical forms exist in great profusion; these forms are of every conceivable grade of value, from varieties up to genera.
They also have a determinable geographical distribution."
This makes the island of Jamaica an excellent field for the study of variation and its controlling factors.
A complete zoological survey of even such a contracted area as is covered in this paper, (better still if extended to a wider area or to the entire island), would be of the greatest value in the study of the causes of variation, so far as they may be worked out by morphology.
The possibilities in this direction appealed very strongly to me during a visit to the island in February-March, 1910, and on a subsequent visit in April-May I collected large series of specimens from definite colonies with this end in view.
From a study of the large series of species of Pleurodonte taken at this time some facts in regard to the causes of the variation observed seem to be indicated, and they will be found embodied in this paper.
In my first visit in February-March I was assisted in the collecting by Mr. Stewardson Brown, who was studying the flora of the region.
At this time I had not recognized the importance of collecting by isolated colonies, and the series of specimens we obtained, while useful for biometric measurements on the species of the regi6n as a whole, do not give the data necessary for tracing out the progressive variation from point to point.
In my second visit I collected by colonies, keeping each one separate, and thus obtained material for a comparative study.
This material has been gone over and individual measurements of each shell made; these measurements have been plotted in various ways and the results compared.
The variation in measurement gives a quantitative method of comparison which eliminates very largely the personal equation, and therefore it has been resorted to first in all of these comparisons.
The two dimensions of altitude and diameter, plotted as a point, give the best comparison of the dimensions, their ratio to each other, or the index, may likewise be used; and the indices arranged in order and plotted for each colony on one diagram show the variations in the slope of •the shell or give a key to the mean divergence.
The dimensions, reduced to an average for each colony, may also be compared, and when these are arranged in order geographically, on one diagram, they give a view of the successive variations from station to station.
I included in the specimens taken a considerable number of the old "dead" or semi-fossil shells which are to be found in the soil and in the "graveyards," as they may be called, the great accumulations of old shells that are found at the bases of cliffs, in crevices and in the little "cockpits."
More of these should have been taken, for I found on studying them in connection with the living forms of the same colony that additional light was thrown upon these living forms.
But their importance was not fully recognized in the field, as each day's collection was simply packed away for later study.
They often show much variation from the living forms, and, while many of these "semi-fossil" specimens probably represent the form of the species before the settling and clearing of the country, they also show the amount of variation which may have taken place in a given locality.
While it is probably impossible to fix the time that has elapsed since these forms were living, this was probably not great ; yet they give an indication of how rapidly organisms may vary when living under conditions that favor variation.
Their study, too, may throw some light upon similar variations that are noted in palseontological studies, and Some of them may actually be fossils.
In order that the conditions at each colony may be comprehended, a description of this part of Manchester Parish and of the individual colonies will be necessary (see map, fig.
1).
Mandeville is located about the center of the parish of Manchester, some 14 miles in an air line from the sea at Alligator Pond on the south of the island of Jamaica and 35 miles in an air line from the north coast.
It is south of the "backbone," or main east and west elevation of the island, which lies some 12 or 14 miles to the north.
It is on an elevated plateau which extends to the northwest of Mandeville, to Balaclava, Accompony, Ipswich and the "Cockpit Country."
The surface is very uneven, but the individual hills are not large nor high; the small vallej^s are not very deep.
Westward from Mandeville are seen several parallel lines of hills, running north-northwest and south-southeast, and becoming higher to the westward until at about 6 or 8 miles to the west the ground slopes abruptly down to the Black River Valley and the level savannas of St. Elizabeth Parish, which are but little above sea level — a drop of 2,000 feet.
To the east and northeast the ground slopes down to the valleys in which Wil1911.]
121 liamsfield and Poms are located, at an elevation of some 1,000 feet lower than that of Mandeville.
The country has been settled for many years; in some places but little original forest remains, in others, especially to the north, northwest, west and southwest of the town, large tracts are still covered by original forest.
The underlying rock is the Tertiary limestone which forms the surface of Jamaica outside of the great uplift of the Blue Mountain system and belongs mostly to the Cobre formation of Hill.
These limestones are generally nearly horizontal or only gently inclined, they outcrop on steep slopes Kendal VV^mV"!
sfirlri Fig.
1.
— Sketch map of the Mandeville region.
of the hills and many hill-tops and stand up in long cliffs on the hillsides.
There is no surface water in the district, but the limestones are eaten out into caverns and the drainage is underground.
Some of the limestone layers are very pure, some are quite marly.
The weathering of the rock depends upon these characters and the two types of stone mentioned present quite different structures when they weather.
The marly limestone shows but little in the way of corals or shells or other fossils, being rather even in grain and evidently containing considerable clay.
The pure limestone layers are composed of a compact, fine-grained form of calcium carbonate which encloses numerous corals and marine shells; but these, being of the same composition as the ground mass, weather equally with it, and hence do not come out entire by the solution of the stone, but only appear on the surface in section.
The layers of marly limestone upon weathering break up into blocks of varying size, and tops of hills formed of these layers are covered with loose, detached blocks of all sizes.
An examination of any of these boulders shows at once that they are very porous and loosely held together; when they disintegrate, the rock passes into a coarse gravel, composed of small angular fragments, and finally into smaller fragments and clay.
The residual clay from the marly rock is white to buff-colored, or sometimes yellow-ochre color.
This rock, on hill-tops, weathers deeply, by boulder weathering; its porous character makes the soil drain quickly after rain, and such hill-tops are notably dry.
They are generally flat-topped, if the hill is of considerable size, and are covered with a growth of the "broom-palm," the leaves and debris from which cover the ground to the depth of several inches.
This coating of dead leaves on the ground is generally so dry that the snails find little to feed on in it, and these dry hill-tops furnish few specimens of land gasteropods.
The purer limestone layers, on the other hand, do not weather into blocks by boulder weathering, but the rock passes at once into a fine clay, which is generally very dark red to reddish-brown, as Hill describes that of the Cobre formation.
This residual clay, of course, does not persist on the exposed surfaces of rock on the hill-tops, but is washed off by the rains into the hollows and valleys.
This pure limestone presents bare rock surfaces that are not porous, and do not absorb moisture; they are not smooth, however, but are honeycombed with irregular holes and cavities, some of large size, and these are, in miniature, the structures characteristic of the Cockpit country.
Thus vertical or inclined cylindrical holes or pits may be seen in this limestone, ranging from two or three inches to ten feet in diameter, and often as many feet in depth.
The surface of the rock is rough and jagged, sharp spires and knife-edges are characteristic of this pure limestone on the hill-tops.
The rock is not porous, but the holes and pits retain the moisture; and the limestone is such a good conductor that moisture condenses and remains on the surface after the deposition of dew each night.
These limestones are the most favorable places for land snails.
In the country about Mandeville the marly limestone often forms the hill-top, and the purer limestone is found at a lower level ; and this is true along the hills to the northwest also, towards Somerset and Green Vale, but the crest of the still higher hill, fronting the plain of St. Elizabeth, is mainly composed of the pure limestone.
The marly rock, weathering more slowly, would form the hill-tops in the more or less uneven plateau in which Mandeville is located, but along the escarpment edge of this plateau to the west the purer limestone can form the ridge.
While there are certainly several different alternating layers of these two types of rock, the general observation holds true that wherever in the island the purer, honeycombed, jagged limestone is encountered, the land molluscs are more plentiful and larger.
When Jamaica was untouched by cultivation, there is little doubt that all the upland limestone district, and in fact all the surface, except the swamps and savannas, was covered with a continuous forest.
Cliffs of rock and exposures of bare rock on some hills were the only exceptions.
Under such conditions free migration of the land molluscs from one part of the island to another was possible.
In the Mandeville region, where there is no surface water, but the topography is characterized by cup-shaped valleys enclosed by hills, often with no possible connection for surface flow of water from one valley to another, the entire surface was forested before the introduction of cultivation, some 50 years ago.
In many places virgin forest is still to be seen on hill-tops, and sometimes extending down into valleys and gullies and connecting hill with hill.
The land that is first cleared is in the small cup-shaped valleys, where the soil and humus washed from the wooded hills collect; as the area of cultivation extends, it involves the slopes of the hills and the cultivated or cleared areas join, but they have islands of virgin forest, in the form of the rocky hill-tops, which are not only not arable, but the clearing of which would be a positive detriment to the estates.
This is fortunate, for in these islands the plants and animals find a refuge from the encroaching "cultivations."
Many of these woods have existed in their present state since the first clearing of the land, and are only occasionally entered now for the cutting of a little firewood or an occasional hardwood tree for lumber, and there is every reason to believe that they will continue to exist unchanged for generations.
Each one of these isolated patches of woodland becomes a definite colony fOr the land molluscs, many of which colonies have existed in their present state for periods varying from 20 to 70 or 80 years.
In these areas are found not only the present living snails, but the shells of their ancestors, accumulated in "graveyards," such as the small cockpits, rifts and holes in the cliffs, and in the rock piles and soil.
The dead shells are also found in the soil of the cultivated and cleared land, and may readily be obtained for comparison with the living forms now confined to the isolated patches of virgin forest or islands.
The district is hence one well adapted to the study of the variation which has taken place since the advent of cultivation in the country.
In a paper 1 published in these Proceedings by Pilsbry and Brown a list of the species collected in this Mandeville district is given and the exact localities at which I collected the species is recorded.
Most of these localities represent definite colonies, and all that are treated of in this paper are isolated colonies.
In order that the environment under which the animals lived may be compared, descriptions of these localities will be necessary.
Of these Benmore woods, the King Edward Hotel woods, Cedar Hill woods and Bloomfield are in the limits of Mandeville Market ; Garrett's woods, Somerset Road 3 miles north of Mandeville, Kendal Road, Ridge near Lincoln, and Somerset are at some distance from the town.
2 The Benmore Woods Colony.
This woods covers a hill to the east of the Court House at Mandeville and about a quarter mile distant.
It is practically virgin forest on the west slope of the hill where collections were made and includes an area of 6 or 8 acres, the woods extending dow r n to the bottom of the hill on this side.
The elevation ranges from 2,000 feet above sea level to perhaps 2,150 feet.
The limestone outcrops on the slope and is the pure rock weathering into honeycombed and irregular forms.
Where collections were made the ground was moist, covered with a thick coating of leaves and often of loose stones.
The leaves furnished abundant fungus food for the Pleurodonts.
The shade was dense and this helped to preserve the moist condition.
Live Pleurodonte were plentiful, some had invaded the neighboring pasture, but were mostly recorded by the dead shells found lying about.
Collection was not extended to the hill-top, which was partly cleared and much dryer.
It was probably composed of the more impure limestone seen on the top of the neighboring hill at King Edward Hotel.
1 The Mollusca of Mandeville, Jamaica, and its Environs, by Henry A. Pilsbry and Amos P. Brown, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila., 1910, pp.
510-535.
2 See map, fig.
1, reproduced from the above paper.
1911.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
125 The King Edward Hotel Woods Colony.
This piece of woodland also occupies a hill-top, situated across the road from the King Edward Hotel, and lying to the east of the Benmore woods about half a mile distant.
It is a conical hill of some 3 or 4 acres, densely wooded, but the wood more open and rather dryer than that at Benmore.
Not much limestone is seen in place until near the top of the hill, where low exposures as well as numerous loose blocks are encountered.
The limestone is the more impure kind, weathering into blocks of all sizes and producing a great quantity of loose stone in small pieces.
The hill is not very high and the elevation is about 2,000 feet above sea level.
Roadside cuttings have been made along the west side of the woods, where a certain amount of talus from the hill makes an accumulation of loose small stones that are good collecting places.
Where the woods is not stony, a layer of leaves of some inches thick covers the slopes of the hills, and in this many living Pleurodonts were found.
Along the road to the west many were obtained crawling in the gutters after rains.
The woods is isolated by roads on two sides and open pastures on the other sides as well as across the roads.
It is practically virgin forest.
The Cedar Hill Woods Colony.
This rather small woods occupies the northwest slope of a hill on the estate called Cedar Hill or Cedar Grove, and extends from a road at the foot of the hill to the top, where it is bounded by open pasture land, as it is on the southwest side, while cultivated ground bounds it to the northeast.
Across the road is open pasture land, extending to Benmore woods, and about a quarter mile to the northeast is the woods at King Edward Hotel.
This is a very dense jungly woods, exceedingly rocky; the pure limestone cropping out on the entire hillside, and extending to the hill-top, which is covered by loose blocks of limestone.
It is evidently an undisturbed piece of the virgin forest, as can be seen by the flora as well as by the species of mollusca obtained here.
The limestone being well exposed and, as usual, much honeycombed by holes, the collecting was good.
"Dead" shells were especially plentiful.
The Bloomfilld Colony.
The Bloomfield estate lies to the southwest of Mandeville Court House, and the collections were made along a roadside cut and cliff for perhaps a quarter mile on the Lower Santa Cruz Road, including, too, the strip of woods at the top of the cliff.
This is much disturbed, but has evidently been recently a piece of original forest.
The limestone is in general rather marly ; the road runs up hill here from about 2,000 to 2,100 feet above sea level along this cut.
"Dead" shells are plentiful, many species were only found in this state.
From the list found here it is seen that at one time the fauna must have been much like that at the Cedar Hill woods.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos was evidently well established, as great numbers of young snails of this species were seen crawling actively about.
While still a productive locality for many species, there is no great amount of original woods remaining.
Garrett's Woods Colony.
This is the woods on a hill adjoining Mr. Garrett's place, "The Bungalow," and is a piece of virgin forest about 2 miles from Mandeville Court House on the Lower Santa Cruz Road.
It occupies the top and part of the slope of a rocky hill (2,200 feet above sea level) with numerous limestone exposures and loose blocks, the hill being capped by the marly limestone, mostly in loose blocks here and underlaid by the purer limestone.
The wood is rather dense and moist, the coating of dead leaves on the ground furnishes abundant fungus food for snails.
The top has the moist character of the slopes and shows no broom-palm.
The limestone on the slopes is partly honeycombed with cavities, and some species, such asZaphysema macmurryi(C. B.
Ad.)
and Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaicensis (Gmel.
), which are rarely seen except in favorable localities in virgin forest, are found here plentifully.
Annularia fimbriatula (Sowb.)
is also very abundant; it is rarely seen except in undisturbed woods.
Mr. Garrett informs me that the woods is practically in an undisturbed condition, and is rarely entered except to cut a little firewood.
The moist rocks and the honeycombed character of the stone, with the abundance of food, makes this a veiy favorable habitat for several of the species collected.
The woods is completely isolated by open fields and pastures from neighboring patches of woodland and will probably remain in its present condition for many years to come.
It has been isolated now for a generation or more, but has remained practically untouched for that time.
It was one of the few places where Stoastoma pisum (Sow.)
was seen alive and moving actively about, up to the top of the hill.
The Zaphysemas and Pleurodontes were taken principally from the slopes and near the top.
Ridge Near Lincoln Colony.
To the west of Mandeville the ground rises in a series of ridges, broken by gaps and with a general north-northwest to south-southeast trend.
The crest of the main ridge is reached by taking a branch of the upper Santa Cruz Road, which leaves the post road about 3 miles to the west of Mandeville Court House and runs among the hills to Lincoln.
At about 6 miles west of Mandeville and somewhat short of the hamlet of Lincoln the main ridge is crossed in a gap occupied by this parochial road, and from this point the ridge was followed some half-mile to the north-northwest.
Near the road the larger trees have been cut, but following along the rocky hill-crest one soon passes into untouched virgin forest.
From the top of this crest the Santa Cruz Mountains may be seen some 10 miles away across the Valley of Black River.
The ridge is formed of the purer limestone, honeycombed by holes and small cockpits, and standing up in sharp spires.
The hill is covered with a dense growth of jungle.
The elevation of the highest point reached was about 2,800 feet above sea level.
Zaphysema macmurryi, Pleurodonte jamaicensis, P. acuta goniasmos and species of Sagda were very plentiful.
Their dead shells were seen, in rifts in the cliffs and in the cockpits, by the peck.
The smaller holes in the limestone were frequently several feet deep, the cockpits were often ten feet and more deep.
Careful search was made for living Zaphysema macmurryi and P. jamaicensis, but while dead shells of both species could have been gathered by the bushel (and many of these were in perfectly fresh condition), no living specimens were encountered.
They probably live deep in the holes of the limestone and in the cockpits, and would hardly be seen alive on the surface unless during the rains, which at the time I collected here, May 3, had hardly begun.
The conditions of moisture and the character of the vegetation resembled those of the Garrett's woods locality, but in this case the ridge is continuously wooded for some miles with scarcely a break and the forest extends down the slopes for a considerable distance, so that there must be several thousand acres of woodland along this ridge that is more or less continuous.
The breaks that occur in the continuity of the forest could probably be crossed by migrating snails during the rainy season, though, at the time of my visit, the dry slope at the end of the hill towards the road would have offered an impassable barrier.
To the north, however, it must be nearly continuous forest to Balaclava and the uncultivated Cockpit Country.
To the northeast lies the Somerset colony, in a similar forested area, but the intervening valleys are many of them cleared and cultivated.
The part examined could be strictly called one colony, but, doubtless, on following out the ridge to the north, many more or less isolated colonies would be encountered.
12s proceedings of the academy of [feb., Somerset Road Colony.
This is a small colony 2h miles from Mandeville at the turn in the parochial road to Somerset, between the 2 and 3 mile posts.
It consists of small roadside exposures of limestone in little quarries and borrow pits along the base of a rocky wooded hill.
The limestone is principally the marly variety, and while not weathered to the porous character which this stone acquires on hill-tops, the soil is nevertheless rather dry.
The woods are not very dense, but the ground is covered by a layer of some inches of leaves which furnish enough food to support a good population of P. acuta goniasmos and many smaller snails, as Colobostylus jai/anus rufilabris.
The collection here was made in about 100 yards of the wood, mostly near the road.
The entire patch of woodland was perhaps a couple of acres, but it was only partly isolated from much larger tracts of forest in the adjoining hills to the west.
The elevation was somewhat below that of Mandeville, probably 1,900 feet above sea level.
In all directions except to the southwest this point of hill is isolated from the lower ground by open pastures.
It is about half-way between Mandeville and the Somerset estate, some 3 miles from each, and nearly as far from the Kendal Road colony.
Larger forms, such as P. acuta goniasmos, could undoubtedly travel during the wet season into this locality from the neighboring wooded hills to the west, southwest and south, but the forms living to the north and east would be completely isolated by cleared land.
Kendal Road Colony.
In collecting out this road 3+ miles from Mandeville, but few large stretches of untouched woodland were found that were favorable for collecting and that reached the post road.
The hills were generally wooded; sometimes the forest was practically virgin, but pastures or cultivations isolated them from the road.
After passing down the steep zigzag part of the road, in the lower ground, a few pieces of favorable woodland were met with, and along the roadside exposures at one of these places some specimens of Pleurodonte were taken.
They must have lived in the few acres of woodland, for here the cultivation is more intensive, and this colony would have been completely isolated by open country from any others.
It was very noticeable here, an old cultivated district, that the old weathered shells were very different in form from those that were in new, fresh condition.
The wood was not entered, so no living forms were taken.
The fresh shells collected were from those that had crawled down into the road during rains and been destroyed by ants, the older ones were from shell accumulations in the fissures in the rocks.
1911.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
129 The Somerset Colony.
This large estate of some 3,000 acres was visited in February, 1910, and in May I spent a week here as the guest of Mr. A. P. Sutherland collecting molluscs.
The property lies on either side of the parochial road (known as the Somerset road) which leads to Medina and Balaclava, and the estate is entered at a point about five miles from Mandeville.
From here it extends along the road for a couple of miles.
The house at Somerset was built more than half a century ago, but the property is still in virgin forest with the exception of such pastures and cultivations among the hills as have gradually been cleared during the last 30 or 40 years.
The surface is very irregular, with a network of narrow valleys and sinks more or less connected, between the meshes of which the round or oblong hills stand up boldly.
The topography has been mainly produced by the solution of the limestones forming caves, which have fallen in, making the deep sinks, bowlshaped valleys and deep gullies that form the network of depressions.
The limestone stands up in bold escarpments and cliffs fronting the depressions, and these cliffs follow along the general trend of the hills; in many cases they seem to represent the faces of fault blocks.
The main system of these cliffs runs nearly north and south — northnorthwest by south-southeast, as a rule; the hills follow these lines in a large number of cases.
A more or less continuous depression is followed by the road through the estate, but this is not continuous, and the road is therefore very hilly.
Less than half a mile to the west of the road over the first range of hills is a similar and more continuous depression or valley, with a more continuous range of hills rising abruptly on the west, and so the steep hills continue to rise in succession until at about 2\ or 3 miles to the west of the Somerset barbecues and house the ridge overlooking the valley of St. Elizabeth is reached — a continuation of the "Ridge near Lincoln."
All of the depressions (except some deep gullies and sinks) and some of the less stony slopes near the parochial road are cleared and partly under cultivation, but this cleared area represents less than one-fourth of the surface near the road, and in the valleys further from the road even less has been cleared.
Many of the old cultivations have been abandoned for years and the jungle or "bush" very rapidly covers such abandoned, cleared land.
Most of the land at present cleared is in pasture, although some small plantings of ground vegetables, coffee, bananas, etc., have been made.
The hills are so close to each other, only separated, as a rule, by pastures, which are often planted with oranges and pimento, 9 that migration of snails from one to the other would be possible during wet periods.
That such migration frequently takes place does not seem very likely, but the possibility of it makes the entire tract practically one colony.
Even on the same hill it is easy to find evidence that much migration of the forms is not common, but that it occurs in some cases there is good evidence.
Collections were made in the gullies, sink holes and dissected caves that represent the virgin conditions in the low ground; also in the pastures where many forms live, and in the wooded hills, which are everywhere covered by the original forest.
More than 20 such hills were explored with thin intervening valleys, an area of several hundred acres.
The lower ground and many of the hill slopes are underlaid by the purer limestone, many of the cliffs on the hillsides consist of it, as do the sides of the dissected caves and the sinks (cockpits), and some of the tops of the lower hills.
The higher hills are capped by the marly limestone, which covers them with loose blocks of the weathered porous stone, for the rocks are rarely in place here unless the cliffs extend up to the hill-top, which they sometimes do.
As a rule, the hills are somewhat flat-topped.
On such hill-tops the rocky surface is largely covered by a vigorous growth of the tall, slender palmetto, known as the " broom-palm," above which the hardwood trees of many kinds extend their dense shade.
While well-shaded, these hill-tops are, nevertheless, dry on account of the porous nature of the limestone and the deep coating of leaves of the palmetto, which latter deca}^s very slowly and is very porous without forming much humus.
In contrast to this dry condition is the very damp character of the sink holes and deeper gullies in the limestone which are so shaded that even the tree ferns nourish there all the year round.
Some of the smaller hills, notably one to the west of the road near the southern edge of the estate are composed of the pure limestone which becomes honeycombed by the action of the weather, and is so liable to develop small sinks and cockpits.
In this little hill just mentioned the vertical circular holes abound, many up to 10 feet in diameter.
It was in one of these little cockpits that the best specimens of the large extinct form of P. acuta goniasmos were procured.
Specimens as large as these were not found in the living state, but many from the gullies and lower ground approximated to their dimensions and shape.
From a study of the distribution of this species and observations on other species, it is evident that the size is largely a question of moisture, good cover and abundant food, on the one hand, and dry conditions, with poor food .supply and generally poor cover, on the other.
Favorable conditions as to shade and even as to the character of vegetation (as absence of palms, etc.)
may yet produce small forms where there is a deficiency of moisture.
Such a case is the sink hole back of the barbecues on the Somerset place, where the forms were rather small because the rock was not honeycombed with holes, and hence the cover was not very good.
The conditions of moisture were not the most favorable on account of the overhanging walls, but still the sink was not especially dry.
But food was not plentiful and cover was rather lacking.
Even the P. a. goniasmos was small, as was the P. jamaicensis also; but the very fact that this species was found at all, shows that the conditions were rather favorable.
Observation on a great many localities on this estate shows that, as regards the distribution of the various sizes ©f any one species, this is dependent on the character of their habitats, which may be roughly classified as follows: A.
Deep gullies and cavernous or honeycombed rocks, giving good cover, abundant food and moisture, produce large well-fed forms.
This region is confined to the uncleared valleys and gullies and the bases of the hills here, but may extend to hill-tops also, as at the small hill noted on this estate and the higher hill at the Ridge near Lincoln.
B.
Slopes of hills rising from the more level ground, disturbed woods and isolated hills wooded to the top not covered by the palmetto, yet in virgin forest or bush where the conditions as to shade are favorable, but the rock cover not so good as in A and the food supply not so plentiful, produce the average medium-sized forms in great numbers.
C. Hill-tops, especially those covered by the palmetto called " broompalm," where the rock cover is wanting and food is not plentiful and where the conditions are dry except after rains, have few and small forms.
In the condition C there is generally another unfavorable feature present, namely, the nests of the large black ant, which in such places builds nests of 7 or 8 feet high and 3 feet in diameter on the ground or in trees.
In many cases these nests or ant cities are very old and have exercised an influence for years.
Near such ants' nests no shells were seen dead or alive, although sometimes dead shells were encountered within 50 to 100 feet of such nests.
The white termites (called locally "duck-ants") also build large dome-shaped nests, but more often on the slopes, and I did not see that they had much influence on the distribution of the molluscs.
Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaioensis Gmel.
Plate VII.
Good series of this species were obtained from Somerset, Ridge near Lincoln and Garrett's woods, and a few specimens from Benmore woods, Bloomfield, Cedar Hill woods, and the woods at King Edward Hotel.
While these vary considerably in size, the same general form is preserved, so that from the smallest to the largest specimens the dimensions show a nearly even gradation.
On account of the shape of the shell, comparable measurements could only be obtained with any approach to accuracy by making certain conventions in regard to the position in which the height and width should be measured.
The "height" is measured from the apex of the shell to the outer edge of the lip, the greatest obtainable measurement being taken; the width is measured from just above the upper angle of the lip to the opposite whorl, the measurement being taken whorl to whorl.
The height so obtained is not far different from that measured parallel to the axis, but is, of course, much more exact.
The height of the mouth was also measured from the same angle of the lip to the tangentpoint on the portion of the lip opposite and was found to range near the diameter of the shell.
This species is still living at the first four localities mentioned, but, from the appearance of the shells collected, it is most likely extinct at the Bloomfield, Cedar Hill and King Edward Hotel woods.
The specimens from Garrett's woods ran uniformly smaller than those from the other locations; of 28 adult shells but 3 exceed 38 x 49 mm.
and but one shell of this species from all other localities is as small as this, and that one is an injured shell from the Benmore woods which was stunted by the injury.
Of the 28 shells from Garrett's woods mentioned, 18, or 64 per cent., ranged between 35 x 45 mm.
and 37 x 47 mm.
; but one fell below 35 x 45 mm.
and only three were above 38 x 49 mm.
The largest shell from this locality was 39 x 52 mm.
The index or ratio of width to height ranges from .735 to .82, with 75 per cent, of the shells between .77 and .79.
Of the other large series, the Ridge near Lincoln colony and the Somerset group are nearly of the same size, ranging from 40 x 51 mm.
to 45 x 57 mm., with the exception of one small specimen from Somerset which was evidently abnormally small, due to some irregularity in growth, as was indicated by the growth lines.
The Somerset colonies furnished shells of more uniform index or ratio of width to height than those of the Ridge near Lincoln colony ; this index ranges from .76 to .815, but of the 30 specimens measured from the Somerset locality only 3 fall below .77 and only 6 are above .80.
Of the other 21 (or 70 per cent.)
which range from .77 to .80, 1911.]
133 inclusive, 18 (or 60 per cent, of the whole series from Somerset measured) have an index between .78 and .80.
From the Ridge near Lincoln colony the range in the index is from .78 to .83; of the 16 examined 4 (or 25 per cent.)
were below .79, 6 (or 37^ per cent.)
ran between .79 and .80, and a like number were above .80, and of these, 4 (25 per cent.)
were above .82.
The few scattering specimens collected at the other localities mentioned are all larger than the majority of the Garrett's woods suite, but the index is very variable, ranging in the Benmore suite from .73 to .80 in six examples.
Fig.
2.— P. jamaicensis.
Garrett's Woods and Somerset Colonies.
A comparison of the forms from the Garrett's woods colony with those of the Somerset and Ridge near Lincoln colonies may be made by examining figs.
1 and 2, which are plotted from the measurements of height and width.
From these figures the relative variations can be readily seen.
Averaging all the measurements gives about the following : Height.
Width.
Index.
Garrett's woods colony, average of 28 46 36 .78 Somerset colonies, average of 30 53 42 .795 Ridge near Lincoln colony, average of 16 54 42 .775 , Fig.
2 shows the comparison of the forms from the Garrett's woods colony and the Somerset colony; the former represented by the black dots, the latter by the crosses.
As will be seen, there is a gradation in size from one to the other, but the two groups do not mingle; the index is about the same in the two colonies.
The size of the shell is given by the millimeter scales, the vertical scale on the left giving the height, while the horizontal scale below gives the width.
The frequency curves for width are plotted at the top and those for height on the right.
It will be noticed that there is no overlapping in the widths, which run from 34^ to 39 mm.
for the forms from Garrett's woods and from 39 to 44^ mm.
in the Somerset forms.
But in the heights there is a certain amount of overlapping, as the frequency curves show.
■*X"^>T>r" •o° ■ '■o > X ?
X 9 X * X b * o 6 • — M o • T-.
• » % * _So K V • • t • \ • • • \ • > •\Sn.m.
40 i 1 l i i 1 1 l 1 1 1 1 • $ Fig.
3.
— P. jamaicensis.
Garrett's Woods and Ridge near Lincoln Colonies.
hi fig.
3 a similar comparison of the Garrett's woods forms with those from the Ridge near Lincoln is given.
Here again there is no mingling of the two groups and the frequency curves for width do not overlap, but those for height do so slightly.
In plotting all the frequency curves the half-millimeter measurements were distributed to the nearest whole millimeter.
The variation here shown indicates that the Ridge near Lincoln and Somerset colonies are much alike, and indeed these two localities are connected by nearly continuous woods, but the smaller forms from Garrett's woods have been living here for years since their isolation by the clearing of the woods and have become a smaller race in this time.
The forms from nearer Mandeville were larger than those from the isolated Garrett's woods colony.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Plate VIII.
Of the large series of this species in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences there are two specimens from Mt.
Diabolo, St. Ann Parish, which are stated by Jarvis to be typical of the species.
They are evidently the extremes of the series found at this locality.
One is very near the P. bainbridgei pretiosa C. B.
Ad.
The other is the ordinaiy type of this species and is similar to those forms found in.
the immediate vicinity of Mandeville.
They are stated to be extinct at Mt.
Diabolo and are described as "semi-fossil."
That they are really extinct, however, would require an examination for young of the species at the locality, as living adults of this species were not seen during the time of my visit at any of the localities in the Mandeville region considered below, while young shells in very fresh condition were found where the adult empty shells taken were all as weatherworn as either of these two Mt.
Diabolo specimens.
The two Mt.
Diabolo specimens differ in many particulars, but as they came from the sides of the road that crosses the hill they very likely are from different colonies.
As Mt.
Diabolo is on the water shed dividing the island into north and south portions, it is quite possible that these two types represent a northern-side and a southern-side race.
This is rendered still more probable by the variations in the Mandeville district specimens studied, w T hich seem to indicate two races that, in some parts, have intermingled.
The P. b. pretiosa type from Mt.
Diabolo measures 30 mm.
in height by 55.5 mm.
in width, with an index of .54, which is considerably lower than many shells of this type that I collected in the Mandeville district.
The shell consists of 5 J whorls; on the last half of the last whorl the suture is strongly impressed and the periphery is slightly elevated into an angle that is easily felt, forming a slight keel.
The impressed suture is produced by a lowering of the suture line in this part of the last whorl and a wounding of the whorl.
This depression of the suture is only to the periphery of the preceding whorl, however, and not below it, as in the typical forms of P. b. pretiosa.
In this specimen the umbilicus is only half covered by an expansion of the lip.
The other specimen is somewhat larger, measuring 32 mm.
in width by 60 mm.
in height; the index is .534 — nearly the same as the last.
The shell consists of b\ whorls (therefore slightly less than the last), with the suture on the last half of the last whorl only slightly impressed; the periphery in this portion of the shell is flattened, not keeled, and is even slightly impressed.
The umbilicus is completely closed by an expansion of the lip.
Compared whorl by whorl with the specimens that are considered below, either of these runs somewhat larger after the second whorl, up to which point there is little difference in any of these forms.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Plate VIII, figs.
1, 2.
At Somerset colony.
Shell moderately elevated with about 5J whorls, which are more -compressed and rounded in the last 1J whorls than in the Ridge near Lincoln colony, and in fact are the form that has been described as P. b. pretiosa by C. B. Adams.
The suture at the end of the last whorl drops below the periphery by 1 or 2 mm.
in many cases, and in two that were abnormally developed due to an injury ; the dropping of the suture line amounts to 3 or 4 mm.
and extends around the shell for the last half whorl.
A number of the shells from this colony were very old, "subfossil," and yet they did not differ appreciably from the fresh living shells, showing that this form has not been interfered with by the clearing, or at least not altered in form by it.
These semi-fossil forms were carefully measured, but they give substantially the measurements of the living adult forms of this locality.
The average size is: width 53.2 mm., height 33.2 mm., index .62 x 5.
The size varies considerably, however, from 48 x 32 mm.
to 54 x 34 mm.
; the index ranges from .588 to .694.
The mean divergence varies from 110° to 115°.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Plate VIII, figs.
3, 4.
At the Ridge near Lincoln colony.
Shell with only moderately depressed spire, consisting of slightly over 5j/ whorls, the suture of the last half of the last whorl but slightly depressed, much less so than in typical forms of P. b. pretiosa C.B.Ad.
The periphery on the last whorl is not angled nor keeled, but is evenly rounded.
The range of size in the 18 specimens examined varies but slightly, and the form is nearly the same in all (it is a rather homogeneous colony) and the average dimensions are: height 30 mm., width 54 mm., index .555.
Mean divergence about 120°.
While the young shell is strongly keeled, this sharp angle of the periphery of the shell is completely lost at 4^ whorls, so that no angle appears along the periphery on the last whorl.
The umbilicus is normally closed by an expansion of the lip, but in two shells (one of which is damaged) the expansion does not entirely cover the umbilicus.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Plate VIII, figs.
5, 6.
At the Garrett's woods colony.
Shell with a moderately depressed spire, the outline of which is somewhat concave to linear, with 5j whorls, of which the last is only slightly depressed along the suture in the last ^, or in some cases not at all depressed; the periphery is slightly angled on the last whorl up to within \ whorl of the end or in one or two cases up to the end, otherwise rounded in the last \ whorl, and resembling the more depressed specimens from the Ridge near Lincoln.
Umbilicus completely closed by the expansion of the lip in all of the specimens.
The average dimensions are: width 53.3 mm., height 29.6 mm., index .555, mean divergence 125°-135°.
Number of specimens, 10.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Plate VIII, figs.
7, 8.
At the Benmore colony.
Shell with depressed spire, consisting of 5 whorls or less, with a suture that is not at all impressed or only impressed on the last j whorl; the periphery of the shell is slightly angled to the end of the last whorl, this being caused by the last whorl's being somewhat flattened on that part just above the periphery and sloping away rather sharply below.
The umbilicus is closed by an expansion of the lip.
The dimensions are: width 50f mm., height 27^ mm., mean divergence about 125°, index 54.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Plate VIII, figs.
9, 10, At the Cedar Hill colony.
Shell with rather depressed spire, consisting of 4| to 5 whorls; the suture on the last | of the last whorl scarcely at all depressed, and this part of the whorl rounded at the periphery and scarcely angled beyond 4^whorls.
The umbilicus is generally completely closed, but in two specimens it is only about § closed by the expansion of the lip.
Average dimensions are: width 52 mm., height 26.7 mm., mean divergence 140°, index .515.
Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
At the King Edward woods colony.
Shell depressed, consisting of somewhat less than 5 whorls (4f to 4£), the last whorl rounded or slightly angled at the periphery and with little or no depression at the suture, except at the end of the last whorl in some cases; umbilicus closed by an expansion of the lip.
The single (outer) tooth is very small or nearly obsolete.
Average dimensions are: width 50.6, height 26, mean divergence about 140°, index .513.
S«iF, y ■ ■ 4,i ■ y i Tr _l I 1 J l I ' ■ ■ I ■ ■ ■ ■ I ■ ' ' ■ I ■ ■ ■ L_l 1— 1 1 I I I I I I M i l Fig.
4.
— P. bainbridgei.
Comparison by whorls, width and height.
Fig.
4 gives a comparison of the average sizes of this species from five of the stations where collections were made, and from the Somerset estate I have plotted the dimensions of the extinct shells as well as those now living.
They are marked Sm.
F., the Somerset extinct; Sm.
N., the Somerset normal living forms; R. nr.
L., the forms from Ridge near Lincoln; G. W., the Garrett's woods colony; Ben., the Benmore woods forms; and C. H., the forms from Cedar Hill.
Measurements were taken of each shell, whorl by whorl, with the height and width, and these were then averaged and the index calculated, this being the ratio of the height to the width.
These dimensions are plotted, the diameter at whorl 1, whorl 2, etc., being marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; and the greatest width is indicated by the black dots marked "width."
The height of the adult shell, in the same way, is indicated at H. The indices are marked "Index."
It will be noted that the Somerset forms have a high index and, as noted, resemble the forms that have been 'named P. b. pretiosa by Adams.
The five localities represented on this figure are arranged geographic alky from Somerset to Benmore woods and Cedar Hill woods, and it will be noticed that there is a fall in the index from one locality to the other, but a rapid fall from the Somerset station to the Ridge near Lincoln station.
This is accompanied by an actual as well as a relative drop in height of the shell, so that the height curve resembles the index curve, but this is natural as the width curve shows less variation.
The shells from the Benmore woods colony were not very healthylooking, and this may account for the apparent stunting shown towards the end of their shells after the reproductive organs have developed, as indicated in the curves for "whorl 5" and "width."
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
This very variable species is the common large Pleurodonte in the Mandeville district.
Some 500 specimens of adult shells were collected in this region from the definite colonies above described, as well as about a hundred immature shells; and, in addition, about 150 others from mixed colonies were taken, which are not considered in this comparative study.
The largest collection was from the Somerset colonies, a suite of 229 being secured here of the adult shells, as well as a large number of young.
Measurements of all of these six hundred shells (adult and immature) from definite colonies were made, and from these curves showing the distribution of dimensions plotted as well as the whole series of dimensions.
From the young and from breaking down the whorls of adult and young shells measurements were secured in each case, from which measurements the growth curves of the development of the shells were worked out.
Besides these measurements of height and width (the two dimensions recorded for all specimens), in the case of each colony, a small number of typical shells were selected and measured as to the diameter at each whorl, and these were averaged (as well as the heights and widths, and the indices with the mean divergence) and all these factors were plotted to scale.
From this last diagram (fig.
6) it is at once seen that the differences in dimensions vary with the geographical position of the colonies and that at least two lines of migration are involved in this region.
In the tract examined these begin at Somerset and at the Kendal Road colony, respectively, and, making two series of the colonies arranged in geographical order from these points, two sets of curves are at once obtained in which the graduation in dimensions is regular from one end to the other (fig.
6).
The two lines, the Somerset wave and the Kendal Road wave, converge from the northwest and from the northeast towards Mandeville, where they are only separated by about a half-mile; and, doubtless, to the south of Mandeville colonies could be found that show a mingling of these two races.
That they were originally one there is no doubt, but they branched off to the north and east from the main common stock and, following the topography of the country and the most favorable ground, became separated, but eventually came together again.
In this migration through the "Manchester backwoods," as Chitty calls this region, the animals undoubtedly followed the lines of least resistance, where conditions of food and moisture (the main controlling factors in the case of this species) were most favorable, and they avoided the places where conditions were unfavorable or where resistance to migration was offered by the nature of the ground, such as dry, stony hills, continuous cliffs and very steep slopes.
Of pourse this dispersal and migration was effected ages before the country was settled and cleared.
On the basis of these apparent migration lines, the colonies may be divided into two groups.
Starting in the area examined with the Somerset colony, we have one group including in order the following localities: Somerset, Somerset Road, Ridge near Lincoln, Garrett's woods and Bloomfleld, forming a chain of colonies in one of the migration waves.
The other may be taken as starting from Kendal Road 3£ miles north by east of Mandeville and includes the group : Kendal Road, Benmore woods, Cedar Hill woods and King Edward woods, the last three being localities to the east and southeast of Mandeville Court House.
From the large number of specimens collected at Somerset the possibility of variation at airy one large station could be studied; and as the variation noted in the different colonies depends upon the same factors that control it in the case of the Somerset group of colonies, a study of the species at this station will serve as an introduction to the comparative study of the forms from all the colonies, which will then be taken up in order as given above.
The migration lines can then be studied.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate VIII.
At Somerset.
From an examination in the field four types of the species may be distinguished at this place, which may be designated as follows: 1.
Extinct forms that formerly lived in the deep gullies and honeycombed rocks (localities of type A).
Probably the nearest approach to the original stock we have any record of.
As they were only found in a much weathered, semi-fossil condition, they are assumed to be extinct and will be called " Somerset extinct."
Their nearest descendants are the Somerset gully forms 2.
2.
What may be called " Somerset gully forms," the forms now living in localities of type A, as described under the Somerset colonies above.
3.
Somerset hill slope forms, living under the conditions described under the Somerset colonies above as type B, the higher hill slopes.
These may be called the "Somerset normal forms."
4.
"Somerset hill-top" forms, living on hills on which the broompalm or palmetto grows (type C locality).
1911.]
141 An examination of the measurements of the entire suite of Somerset specimens shows that the distribution of dimensions follow this grouping.
From the plotting of the distribution of height and width the relative numbers of the four types are seen to be as given below _»o -«.
-Will Top .
Soffirt tic Gu.lK E.tiact © _ej © _4o • • • © © © © © • • ® © © © © © • • ©©©©©©©• • <3> @ © © G> ® • © © © © © <3> & • © © ® © I I I I •«■ So SSmr*.. J I I 1 L I I I J I I I_ JO to 5 ,° *f *> L-L-l ' ■ I ■ I ■ • I Fig.
5.
— Somerset.
in the 229 examples studied.
The separation into groups by the width measurements is quite sharp, but, as is explained later, the heights overlap somewhat: Range of Dimensions in the Four Types at Somerset.
No.
of Type.
examples.
Somerset Extinct 12 Somerset Gully 55 Somerset Normal 127 Somerset Hill-top 33 The curves were plotted for the entire 229 specimens and no attempt was made to sort them out into groups.
But nevertheless the curves show the types quite plainly.
Thus the widths for the 33 hill-top forms 13 are 42 mm.
and 13 are 43 mm.
; whereas the next millimeter in diameter, 44 mm., is represented by 23 specimens, 45 mm.
by 29 specimens, 46 mm.
by 26, 47 mm.
by 25, 48 mm.
by 24; this range Range of Rang ;e of width , mm.
height , mm.
60-54 33-28 54-49 28-25 (23) 48-44 (26) 25-21 43-41 22-19.5 from 44 mm.
to 48 mm., inclusive, representing the normal forms.
At a diameter of 49 mm.
we find 26 forms; at 50 mm., 19 forms; at 51 mm., only 7 forms.
There are a few scattering normal forms in these 52 gully forms and a few of the gully forms above 51 mm., up to 54 mm., making the number distinguished as gully forms up to 55.
The 12 extinct specimens collected range from 54 to 60 mm.
in width.
The curve of the heights does not serve so well to sort out the four types, for exclusive of the extinct type there is not so much range in height among the specimens except those of the gully type, which vary in height from 28 mm.
to 23 mm., though mostly falling between 27 mm.
and 25 mm.
The curve shows a rapid rise from 19^ mm., of which only one was recorded through 20 mm., of which only 2 examples were measured to 23 mm.
as a maximum where the number recorded was 54.
Between the heights of 22 mm.
and 25 mm.
there are included 108 specimens.
As has been stated, a small number of characteristic examples of each of the three living types were selected for measurement by whorls and all of the perfect specimens of the extinct type collected were used; these measurements were employed in the descriptions which follow.
1.
Somerset Extinct (Plate VIII, figs.
1, 2).
— Shell rather more elevated than in the Somerset gully forms, consisting of 5| whorls, of which the first two belong to the embryonic shell; with an acute periphery which continues to the end of the last whorl; slightly concave next the periphery below up to the beginning or sometimes the middle of the last whorl, somewhat concave next the peripheiy above to the end of the last whorl; labrum with one outer tooth on the lower side, and sometimes with a second inner tooth; umbilicus normally closed by expansion of the lip.
Average height 31 mm.
; width 58 mm.
; index .535; mean divergence about 115°.
About 60 per cent, of the shells had one tooth, the remaining 40 per cent, had two more or less well-developed teeth.
This is a difference from the other Somerset forms now living, which showed 170 out of 209 with one tooth and ten with no teeth, against 29 with two teeth, of which the second inner tooth was often only a trace.
These Somerset extinct were found in several favorable localities, but were only collected from one cockpit on the little hill of honeycombed limestone that has been already mentioned.
A few specimens were taken (about a dozen), although hundreds were seen here and elsewhere on the estate.
It is assumed that they are extinct, as no fresh shells of this large high type were observed ; but a protected gully may be found where they are still alive, and they may be living in the Balaclava district.
They closely approach 2, Somerset gully forms, which are no doubt their descendants.
2.
Somerset Gully Forms (Plate IX, figs.
3, 4).
— This is the largest living P. a. goniasmos of this region.
The shell consists of about 5^ whorls, the spire being somewhat lower than in the Somerset extinct form.
The embryonic shell occupies about If whorls.
In form of shell and concavity next to the periphery, as well as in the keeled character of the latter, this shell resembles the extinct form; but in many shells the whorl next the periphery is convex below and even above near the end of the last whorl.
This convexity of the whorl next to the periphery above is an accompaniment of diminution in size, and is common to almost all of the smaller forms of this species examined from each of the localities mentioned.
As this type passes into the next (3), this character becomes normal in the entire last whorl.
The labrum has the outer tooth developed in above 80 per cent, of the specimens, but the inner tooth is only present in some 14 per cent.
; and somewhat less than 5 per cent, are destitute of teeth.
Average height 23.5 mm.
; width 50 mm.
; index .47; mean divergence about 130°.
The form varies with the convexity or concavity of the whorl next to the periphery above; the more typical forms — those present in the largest numbers — are convex at this point on a part of the last whorl.
An examination of the young shells shows that up to 4 whorls the form of the shell is that of P. ingens C. B.
Ad.
or of P. acuta patina (C. B.
Ad) ; between 4 and 4J whorls it passes into the form of P. a. acuta and then rather rapidly into the typical P. a. goniasmos form.
3.
Somerset Normal (Plate IX, figs.
5, 6).
— These forms resemble the more convex type of the gully form and differ principally in size and in having a somewhat higher index, about .52.
They are actually higher than the gully form by one or two millimeters when the width is some three millimeters less.
The shell consists of 5| whorls, or a trifle more than in the gully, but the diameter of the whorls is less in every case and the fifth whorl has a diameter of 41 mm., as against 45 mm.
in the gully form.
The smaller shells, as a rule, are typically convex next to the periphery above, but wherever this character is well-marked the form is flatter and the index slightly less than in those with a concavity of the whorl at this point.
Such more convex and less keeled forms generally measure about as given above, the more acute forms measure 24 mm.
by 48 mm.
to 25 mm.
by 50 mm., with an index of .50, and thus pass into the gully type.
They are then the intermediate stage between the present gully form living 144 [Feb., under the most favorable conditions and the hill-top form living under the most unfavorable conditions.
They were generally encountered on the sides and near the top of the slope in the hills capped by the broom-palm or in small, somewhat isolated hills, where in both cases the moisture was somewhat deficient and the food, therefore, not so plentiful as in the gullies.
An average size was: height 24.5 mm.
; width 47 mm.
; index .52 ; mean divergence 125°.
4.
Somerset Hill-top (Plate IX, figs.
7, 8).
— These are the smallest form of this subspecies living at this locality, but they are simply a diminutive form of the normal.
The portion of the whorl next to the periphery above is generally convex, and the height is slightly greater proportionately to the width than in the normal forms.
This makes the index somewhat higher than in the normal, but not higher than in the extinct forms.
There are b\ whorls normally, the same as in the form 2.
An average size is: height 22 mm.
; width 42 mm.
; mean divergence 115°-120°; index .525.
InJ»« wijn • r.. ..i....r....i....i.i..ii...r....iiii.i — ■ ■ ■ ■ i t ■ ■ ■ l Fig.
6.
— P. a. goniasmos.
Comparison by whorls.
A most satisfactory comparison of these four types may be had by comparing their dimensions whorl by whorl, and such a comparison is given in the table below.
Comparison of the Average Dimensions from Selected Typical Specimens of the Four Types of P. a. goniasmos A.D.B.
from Somerset Colony.
Whorl Whl.
1.
2.
Type.
mm.
mm.
Extinct 5 13 Gully... 4.5 11 Normal 4.15 10.8 Hill-top 3.75 10 Whl.
Whl.
Whl.
mm.
22 21 20 19 mm.
34 33 31 29 Mean 5.
Height.
Width.
Index, divermm.
mm.
mm.
gence.
47 31 58 .535 115° 45 23.6 50 .47 130° 41 24.5 47 .52 125° 39 22 42 .525 118° These may be plotted and will be found in fig.
6 along with the series from other colonies.
The measurements of all the specimens from the Somerset colonies are plotted in fig.
5.
Here the distribution of the hill-top, normal, gully and extinct forms is shown as regards frequency.
The frequency curve for width shows distinctly the separation of these four types.
Thus at width 42-43 mm.
we have the limit of the hill-top forms and their blending into the normal forms; at 48 mm.
the drop in the curve shows the passage from the normal to the gully forms, while between 52 and 53 mm.
the extinct forms begin.
Their (apparent) relative infrequency is simply due to the fact that comparatively few of the extinct shells were taken.
In this diagram all measurements are to the nearest whole millimeter, the number of coincident measurements for any size of shell being indicated by the small numbers enclosed in the circles, whose centers indicate the dimensions.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate X, figs, l, 2.
At Somerset Road colony.
Shell varying from even flatter than the Somerset normal type to considerably more elevated ; consisting of 5 whorls, the last whorl next to the periphery convex above and more so below, but with a distinct angle at the periphery; generally more elevated than in the Somerset forms and with an average index of .545, which is higher than even that of the Somerset hill-top shells.
The index varies, however, from .473 to .612, being in general higher in the smaller shells, and only one of the larger specimens showing an index as high as .585; this was an old, weathered shell, perhaps representing an extinct form.
The umbilicus is normally closed by an expansion of the lip, but in about 25 per cent, of the shells it was only partially closed.
This is a onetoothed race like the Somerset shells — 95 per cent, of the shells showed but a single tooth, and in only one was there a poorly developed second inner tooth.
The diameter ranged from 35 to 44 mm.
Average dimensions were: width 38.4 mm.
; height 20.8 mm.
; mean divergence 115° (110° to 120°); average index .545.
Number of examples, 21.
This race, while smaller, closely resembles the forms from the Somerset colony.
They are smaller than the smallest of these, however, the hill-top forms, and are somewhat higher in the spire also; the average index of the Somerset hill-top type is .525 as against .545 in this colony.
In the young shells up to the second whorl the size is about the same as in the normal Somerset shells of the same developmental stage ; from that point on the forms from this colony run smaller 10 146 [Feb., than any of the Somerset shells, compared whorl by whorl.
Fig.
7 shows the measurements of the specimens from this colony, with their frequency curves of width and height.
-lo ,-•-.. f _24mffi.
p. m o • O © o « © o o • M ® © o o } © •'' 35 O 4owm.
1 — 1 ' 1 ' 1 I ■ .
1 1 • Fig.
7.
— Somerset Road.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate X, figs.
3, 4.
At the Ridge near Lincoln colony.
Shell varying from the form of the Somerset normal to much more elevated than those from Somerset Road and averaging higher than these in index; consisting of 5 whorls or often somewhat less (4|) and rarely of over 5|whorls; with a slight concavity next to the periphery above on the last whorl in most cases, but this is sometimes wanting; convex below next to the periphery on the last whorl.
The index ranges from .50 to .634, but the average from typical specimens is .565.
The umbilicus is completely closed by the expanson of the lip in all of the 40 adult specimens examined.
The forms are both one-toothed and two-toothed in about equal proportions; with two teeth there were 18 specimens, but of these 13 had the second inner tooth small; in all 45 per cent, were two-toothed.
Of the remaining 22 specimens 20 had only one tooth, 50 per cent.
; the other two had no trace of teeth, though the lip was heavy and well developed.
Average width 38 mm.
; height 21.5 mm.
; mean divergence 112°.
Number of examples, 40.
The average width is slightly less than that for the Somerset Road colony, the height, on the other hand, is slightly greater; this makes the average index higher, .565 for this colony as against .545 at Somerset 1911.]
147 Road colony.
The measurements of the specimens from this colonyare given in fig.
8.
_ • • • f o _3om».
p. • 1 • 1 \ O O * • 1 o O o • © o Q> «.
O <D o G CD • — ©©<*)© y o •'' 4p*irm.. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i r i Fig.
8.
— Ridge near Lincoln.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate X, figs.
5-7.
At Garrett's woods colony.
Shell varying much in size and relative dimensions of height and width, but in general resembling the form of the higher shells from the Ridge near Lincoln colony; consisting of about 5 whorls, convex above and below the periphery on the last whorl; with a distinct angle along the periphery and, in some cases in the larger shells, with a slight concavity above the periphery in the last whorl.
The index varies, the lowest being .48 and the highest .655, but a very large proportion of the specimens have an index of .55-.
58 and the average for the typical specimens selected was .565.
The plotting of the heights shows 22 specimens with a height of 19.5 mm., 20 with a height of 20 mm., 14 with a height of 20.5 mm., and 9 with a height of 21 mm.
; the extremes of height range from 17 mm.
to 27 mm.
in the 83 examples measured, but these include 4 specimens which are semifossil, the largest of the series.
The fresh shells run from 17 mm.
to 23 mm.
in height, these four semi-fossil ones from 24.5 mm.
to 27 mm.
The widths vary from 31.5 mm.
to 40 mm.
for the fresh shells and the four semi-fossil shells range from 40 mm.
to 44 mm.
The living forms show a sharp maximum in width at 36 mm., with 24 specimens (including those which measure 36.5); altogether 42 specimens range between 35 mm.
and 37 mm.
inclusive.
The labrum 148 [Feb., shows a well-developed outer tooth in all but 5 specimens, which are toothless; of the toothed forms a less well-developed inner tooth appears in 38 specimens of the living form and 3 of the semi-fossil form, while 36 of the living form and one of the semi-fossil form have only the outer tooth.
It will be seen, however, that the one-toothed and two-toothed forms are about evenly divided in this colony.
The umbilicus.
is closed in all specimens by an expansion of the lip.
Average dimensions are as follows: Width 20.4 mm.
; height 36 mm.
; mean divergence 109°; average index .565.
Zo * •--'• ""'-•-.
"-~-f-\ o • — u • O • © o o '• o o © © © © V © o © © © © © • -& © © © © © 1 • © © © © © o V o o o © o © ,•' O O O 3 c O 4p*m. Il II Ilillli lit ''.
f , 2 f Fig.
9.
— Garrett's Woods.
4'he form of the shell in this race is like that from the Ridge near Lincoln colony and somewhat higher in the spire than the shells from Somerset Road, but there are a great many small shells with very high spire.
This is natural, for a large number of the specimens were taken from the hill-top, and, as at Somerset, so here, the hill-top forms run smaller than those found lower clown on the slopes.
The four semi-fossil forms are uniformly larger than the others, fig.
9, w T here the four highest shells are semi-fossil, and in these there is a slight concavity next to the periphery above in the last whorl.
They probably represent the original race that reached this locality in the migration of the species, and that was subsequently modified to the present smaller form by being compelled to live under less favorable conditions, especially since the region has been under cultivation.
They may have been driven to the shelter of this oasis in the cleared land by the cultivation, and even represent a form that lived under better conditions than those obtaining in the woods.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate X, figs.
8-10.
At the Bloomfield colony.
A.
Old or Semi-fossil Shells, 9 examples.
— Shell with rather elevated spire consisting of 5 to 5^ whorls and with, in most of the specimens, a concavity above, next to the periphery on the last whorl ; in several of the specimens the shell is excavated or concave above the suture on the third and fourth whorls also, so that the very acute periphery persists up to the end of the fourth whorl where the excavation below the periphery disappears.
The dimensions vary from 38 x 20.5 mm.
to 43.5 x 25 mm.
; the indices range from .515 to .612, but average .56.
With the exception of two specimens, these old shells are uniformly larger than those now living in this colony.
This is easily seen to be due to the fact that the woods at Bloomfield are disturbed and there is no possibility of migration from the lower ground as was doubtless the case when these semi-fossil shells were alive.
Across the road from this woods the ground falls away into a long valley or pocket in the hills where the conditions of food and moisture must have been much more favorable when the country was uniformly forested than those obtaining in the colony at present.
The forms are both oneand two-toothed, about equally divided, 4 have the outer tooth well developed and the inner one rather rudimentary, 5 have only the outer tooth.
Average dimensions: width 40.5; height 22.7; index .56; mean divergence 110°.
B.
Living Race, 25 examples.
— Shell with rather elevated spire, consisting of 5 to 5\ whorls ; almost uniformly convex both above and below the periphery, which is not very sharp, in a few examples slightly excavated above next to the periphery.
The dimensions range from 35 x 21 mm.
to 39 x 23 mm.
; the index varies from .53 to .625.
They are about equally divided between twoand one-toothed forms ; of the 25 specimens 12 have one tooth and 13 have two, but the inner tooth is only rudimentary in about one-third of these.
The size varies, on the whole, considerably less than that for the old shells, but one is above 38.5 mm.
in width, and that was 39 mm.
Average dimensions: height 21 mm., width 37.3 mm., index 57 mm.
; mean divergence 107°.
The dimensions of these two sets of specimens are given in the 150 [Feb., accompanying plot, fig.
10, in which all forms with a width of 39 mm.
or over (with the exception of one, 39 x 23 mm.)
belong to group A.
The shells in this colony were plentiful, and both in February and March and also in May living forms were collected in abundance.
In March the young were perhaps somewhat more plentiful, but a good series were collected in May, when the suites above described were taken.
The young ranged from 3 whorls to 4^ whorls in diameter, they move actively about above the surface of leaves and probably lO /"••• • i • © o © o o t • o o © o o © •.
o © © © o 4 t spmm d) © o o o _ 35 AoTnm 1 .
i i 1 1 i 1 1 1 Fig.
10.— Bloomfield.
most of the migration occurs between a size of 2\ whorls and of 4 whorls.
At about 4 whorls the adult characters begin to appear, and the umbilicus to contract as the size of the opening of the shell expands, but the development of the shell will be given in another place.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate XI, figs.
1-3, 5.
At the Kendal Road colony, 3h miles from Mandeville.
Shell varying from rather high in the spire to as flat as the Somerset normal forms, consisting of 5^ to 5^ whorls; only 2 out of the 18 examples (Plate XI, figs.
3 and 5) had a depressed spire, so that the index fell below .50 (.455 and .487), but in 5 others it was below .53 (.51, .512, .512, .524, .525).
On the other hand, 4 had a much elevated spire, above .60 (.607, .61, .62, .62).
The average index for the whole series was .55.
They include shells that range in index below the lowest from Benmore woods, and some are also nearly as high in index as the highest from this colony.
The outline of the spire runs from nearly linear to somewhat convex, but all show a slight excavation above the periphery on the last whorl and the angle is rather pronounced, one oitwo have this angle at the periphery much rounded.
1911.]
151 The two extremes of form are so different that they may well represent two successive migration waves, but the high-spire forms predominate.
Two of the shells were probably semi-fossil (Plate XI, fig.
1), but their index is near the average for the group and they were not larger than many taken at this colony.
In actual size the two flat shells above mentioned are probably as large as many Somerset normal forms, measuring, height 21 mm.
by width 46 mm.
and 23 x 42^ mm., respectively, with indices of .553 and .541.
This colony was at a lower level above sea than any other examined in this region ; it is, as noted above, the most northerly point of the second migration line which seems to be indicated in the specimens of this collection.
The dimensions of the entire 18 specimens are given in the diagram, fig.
11, but, •••••••••• _g,5m»w.
q ft o o o o (2) © • o •' O O o • J i° o •' .
T .
1 .
^5mm: 1 Fig.
11.
— Kendal Road.
as will be seen, they are rather scattered.
Average dimensions by whorls were measured for a small selected series of these specimens, they show that up to 2 whorls the diameter is equal or rather more than that of the normal Somerset forms, at whorl 3 about the same size and at whorls 4 and 5 somewhat smaller.
When fully grown they are about the diameter of the Somerset hill-top forms.
The index is higher than that of any of the Somerset forms, though near that of the Somerset Road forms.
The average dimensions of the adult shell may be stated as, height 23.1 mm.
; width 42 mm.
; index .55 ; mean divergence in the flat forms 130°, in the forms with high spire 95°.
These forms are mostly one-toothed, 13 of the series had only the outer tooth and the other 5 had only a rudimentary inner tooth in addition.
All have the umbilicus completely closed by an expansion of the lip.
152 [Feb., The irregularity shown in the frequency curve of heights in fig.
9 is no doubt due to the fact that but a small series was taken at this station.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate XI, figs.
4, 6, 7.
At the Benmore woods, Mandeville.
Shell ovate conical, rather higher than the last, consisting of 4£ to 5h whorls, of which the last has a distinctly angled periphery, but is convex above and below and not excavated above the periphery, as is commonly the case in the Kendal Road colony.
They do not include any very much depressed forms in the 42 specimens measured, these run above .53 in index, with the exception of 10 specimens whose indices range from .495 to .525; of the rest, 15 are above .575, and 8 _J0 .-: • • i _2.5T>vm.
q O i v ® o o © o **•„ o ® © © © o \ • ® © © o ,*' -*° © © o 4 o o i • o o 1 i i i i 1 I 1 i i Y 1 II Fig.
12.
— Benmore Woods.
of these are above 60.
The average index for the entire series is .56.
The heights vary considerably, but average about 21.5 mm., with an average width of 38.4 mm.
; the mean divergence ranges from 120° to 110°.
The highest index measured, .635, was in a shell of medium size, of which the dimensions were 23.5 x 37 mm.
The shells of this colony are prevailingly two-toothed, though the outer tooth is the only one that is strongly developed, and in the 25 that show two teeth (59^ per cent.)
the inner tooth is rather small in most of the specimens.
The other 17 specimens (40^ per cent.)
only show one tooth, with no trace of the second, inner one.
The umbilicus is normally closed, but is partly open in one specimen which is smaller than the average, although it does not seem to be abnormal or injured 1911.]
153 in any way.
The only semi-fossil shell among the Benmore woods specimens has the highest spire of any measured, it gives 25 x 4(H mm.
The shells in this colony are smaller than those in the Kendal Road colony, and they are higher in the spire proportionately, or the index is slightly higher.
There are none of the dimensions of the largest from Kendal Road colony, but one approaches it (22x44^ mm., as against 21 x 46 mm.
from Kendal Road) and this has an index of .495, the only one with an index under .50.
Fig.
12 shows the distribution of size in this colony, the dimensions of the 42 specimens measured being given to the nearest whole millimeter.
The frequency curve for widths shows that the majority range from 37 mm.
to 40 mm., with a slight drop in the curve at 39 mm.
The curve of heights shows a strong maximum at 22 mm.
Pleuredonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate XI, figs.
8, 9.
At Cedar Hill wood colony.
Shell generally rather elevated, consisting of 5 to 5A whorls, in some cases slightly excavated above the periphery on the last whorl, especially in the higher forms otherwise convex at this point; with an index varying from .472 to .656, but in 69 per cent, of the specimens ■10 .».--•-2.5mm • o o ft o o • t!
O © €) © © "» 1o o o O Q> @ <D o • o o o © •' ' o 1 1 1?
o o i i i r i i i • lo 1 1 1 2o 1 Fig.
13.— Cedar Hill.
it runs between .50 and .60 and is distributed as follows: under .50 in 4 specimens, .50-55 in 13, .55-.
60 in 16 and above .60 in 7 specimens.
Three of these 7 specimens are very large semi-fossil shells, measuring 40 to 4H mm.
in diameter, the other 4 are small, very high shells of the fresh, living series, and range in size from 21 x 32 mm.
to 225 x 36 mm.
In the diagram of the measurements of this colony (fig.
13) the six semi-fossil shells are readily picked out, as they are seen to be the largest in the series.
There are all gradations between the very high spired type and those which are moderately elevated only, but, as will be seen from the indices given above, only a very small number, less than 10 per cent., have an index near that of the Somerset normal forms or the flatter ones from Kendal Road colony.
Average dimensions are height 21 mm., width 37 mm., index .568; mean divergence varying from 90°-95° up to 105°-110°.
The widths vary from 32 mm.
to 43^ mm., but 29 of the shells (69 per cent.)
have widths varying from 35 mm.
to 39 mm.
The heights also fluctuate widely, depending upon whether the shell has the more depressed or more elevated form.
The shells of this colony are both one-toothed and two-toothed forms, but the one-toothed form predominates and where two teeth are present they are of very unequal size, the outer one being well-developed and the inner one very rudimentary.
More than 67 per cent, of the specimens have only the outer tooth developed, the rest have the outer quite large, but the inner one small.
The number of examples studied was 42, and their dimensions are given, with their frequency curves, in fig.
13.
Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
Plate XI, figs.
10, 11.
At King Edward Hotel wood colony.
Shell more uniformly elevated than in any other colony, consisting of 5 to 5 j whorls; the last whorl convex above and below, next to the periphery ; very rarely is there a trace of excavation at this point.
The whorls are somewhat convex above in those inside of the fifth whorl in some cases, in others the spire is more straight on the slope.
The index runs uniformly higher than in the shells from the other colonies examined ; in only one case out of 63 specimens does the index fall below .50 (to .487) and only 12 are below .55; that is, only 19 per cent, of the specimens examined.
Of the rest, 31 specimens, or 49 per cent., are between .55 and .60; 19 specimens, or 30 per cent., have an index between .60 and .65, and one exceeds .65, being .658.
In all, 81 per cent, show an index of .55 or above, and the average index for the colony is .585, much higher than any other examined.
The shells of this colony do not vary in size quite so much as in some others; the extreme range of size is between 20 x 32 mm.
and 23 x 42 mm.
; most of them run between 21x35 mm.
and 23x40 mm.
The shells are prevailingly two-toothed, of the entire number .examined in regard to this character, 68 in all, those with two teeth number 55 or 81 per cent, and the two teeth are both well-developed, although 1911.]
155 the inner tooth is somewhat smaller than the outer.
The remaining 19 per cent, had only one tooth.
Average dimensions are: height 22.4 mm.
; width 38.2 mm.
; index .585; mean divergence 98° to 102°.
This colony, the King Edward woods, is near the Benmore woods and the Cedar Hill woods, but is at present completely isolated from either as well as from other patches of woodland.
* From the proprietor of the King Edward Hotel I learn that it has been in its present condition for a generation, and is nearly untouched virgin woods.
The constant character of a higher spire seems to have been fixed since the isolation of the colony, as the forms must have migrated in from the direction of Benmore woods or of Cedar Hill, judging from the topography.
_?° lo ...•• •--..--• • •ZStnm.
o o o V O © © © © O "• © ® © © © o * ® © © © © i -^O © © © o V o ® •"" o • ' 1 ay A-o mm.
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ( lo So i 1 i 1 I Fig.
14.
— King Edward Fig.
14 gives the individual dimensions of the shells of this colony and shows distinctly, in the regularity of the frequency curves of the two different dimensions, the unity of the colony and its undisturbed character.
The curves here are progressive to the maxima and symmetrical, they do not indicate any admixture of foreign individual to disturb the integrity of the race, but they do appear to indicate an equilibration of the forms to the environment.
The maximum of width is rather sharp, that of height is more gradually attained.
As there seems to be in all of this stock a high and a low form intermingling, this isolated colony would seem to have nearby attained an equilibrium and fixed the characters of the new high-spired race.
Topographically, this woods is lower in altitude than the Benmore or Bloomfield stations, but the old high-spired form shown on the Bloomfield diagram in the extinct shells is probably here found surviving in a more diminutive form.
It is a hill-top race, for the King Edward woods is all hill-top, while the neighboring Benmore woods is cleared at the hill-top and the Cedar Hill woods includes hill-top and slopes and is much more wet than King Edward Hotel woods, so that stunting due to dry conditions is not so operative there.
The species is still very plentiful here, another indication of adjustment of the forms to their environment.
But, if such.
an adjustment as seems to be indicated has really taken place, it must have been accomplished since the isolation of this patch of woodland by the encroaching cultivation; that is, since the settlement and clearing of the adjoining lands, and probably within 20 or 30 years.
That such change of conditions due to the influence of man in clearing the forest has resulted in smaller races in some species is easily demonstrated in the case of other Jamaican land mollusca, and some examples of it I intend to consider in a subsequent paper.
A comparison of the forms from these nine colonies, including the four types described from Somerset, whorl by whorl, as was done in the case of Pleurodonte bainbridgei from the five colonies compared under that species, shows a very definite gradation in the dimensions.
For the purpose of this comparison a small number of specimens, five to ten, chosen as typical examples of each type or colony and representing the variation in size, were selected, making twelve groups of specimens, or some 75 specimens in all.
Each one of these was then measured for its diameter at the end of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth whorl, also for its greatest diameter and height.
The number of whorls and fractions of a whorl were noted.
In measuring the diameters at the end of the first, second, etc., whorls all measurements started at the protoconch origin.
In the larger snails the beginning of the suture is generally straight for half a millimeter or more and this straight part prolonged becomes a tangent to the curving suture line.
From the beginning of the suture a line was drawn radially, and tangent to the first part of the suture ; where this line crossed the suture was taken as the end of the whorls.
The series of measurements thus obtained are strictly comparable, being all made on the same basis.
With the heights and greatest widths they amounted to some 500 measurements in twelve series; and in nearly all cases represent 7 measurements for each shell.
These were then taken in each series or type, whorl by whorl, and the corresponding measurements averaged, giving for each of the twelve types or series the average width at each whorl, the average greatest width and height.
The same method w r as employed in measuring the dimensions of P. bainbridgei shown in fig.
4.
Upon plotting and comparing these measurements (fig.
6), it was seen that when the colonies or types represented were arranged geographically they were at the same time sorted out into two series in which the gradation of size was continuous from one end to the other in each.
These two series are (1 ) the four types from the Somerset colony, Somerset Road, Ridge near Lincoln, Garrett's woods, Bloomfield; and (2) Kendal Road, Benmore, Cedar Hill woods and King Edward Hotel woods.
The first has eight members, from five colonies, the second represents four colonies.
The first group (1) represents a line from Somerset and Ridge near Lincoln, approaching Mandeville from the northwest, and terminating at Bloomfield on the western outskirts of the town; the second group (2) reaches from Kendal Road on the northeast to the King Edward Hotel woods on the east of the town.
They may very well represent two migration lines, as the forms probably migrated into this region from the north.
The two ends near the town are separated by a high ridge and much cleared land, but the forms may have mingled in the past.
These two groups of measurements are represented in fig.
6.
The first at the top of the diagram is the SomersetBloomfield group, the lower is the Kendal Road-King Edward woods group.
The Somerset-Bloomfield Group.
The largest form of P. a. goniasmos found in the Mandeville district is the extinct race at Somerset, designated as Sm.
Ex.
in the diagram, with an average of 5f whorls and measuring 31 x 58 mm., with an index of .535.
Then follows the gully forms (Sm.
G.), the normal Somerset forms (Sm.
N.), and the hilltop forms (Sm.
T.).
The successive whorls are marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; the height (Ht.)
and the width are marked in black dots.
It will be noticed that there is a gradual decrease in size in these four types in each whorl; even the first whorl showing this decrease, which indicates that the dwarfing begins in the egg.
The irregular variation in height, and therefore in index, shown in the Somerset gully form (Sm.
G.) is an expression of the observation that this form does not have the shape of the others and is probably another race, though closely related.
The diminution in size for the whorls is accelerated after the third whorl and becomes very pronounced in the fifth whorl, but the width varies much more rapidly (as shown by the greatest width) than the height (Ht.).
The index of the extinct form is, however, higher than that of the hill-top form, .535 as against .525.
Comparing with these the other members of this series we see that the dimensions continue to decrease on the whole and the indices to increase, at least as far as Garrett's woods, which is really beyond Mandeville; though the Ridge near Lincoln forms (R. nr.
L.) average somewhat higher than those of Garrett's woods (G. W.) and Bloomfield (Blm.
), they are also higher than the wider form at Somerset Road colony (Sm.
R.).
The index of the Ridge near Lincoln form is then somewhat higher than that of the Garrett's woods form, but not higher than that of the Bloomfield form.
There is hence a slight irregularity in the curve of heights and indices.
The topography of the country renders it very probable that Garrett's woods and Bloomfield are in a migration line from the north, in which the Somerset and Somerset Road colonies would be the first stations represented on this diagram, or in this collection; the Ridge near Lincoln colony would probably be a station on another line from the Somerset region.
That the forms migrated from the north, the high backbone of the island, after the last submergence of the island, is almost certain from the topography; therefore the forms whose measurements are given on this diagram, being arranged geographically, might represent the variation in a stock along a migration line.
The Kendal Road — King Edward Hotel Woods Group.
A similar migration line is probably represented in the lower part of fig.
6, which gives the measurements for the Kendal Road (K. R.), Benmore woods (Ben.
), Cedar Hill woods (C. H.) and King Edward Hotel woods (K. E.).
In this series, again, variation begins with the third whorl, and becomes more pronounced in the succeeding whorls.
The height and width decrease for the first three stations, but rise again at the fourth.
This series was arranged geographically, but also to show a constant rise of index, as the Cedar Hill woods and King Edward Hotel woods are about equally distant from the Kendal Road Station.
The rise in the index from the Kendal Road to King Edward woods is, as the diagram shows, from .55 to .585; although both width and height diminish from the one station to the other, the index rises, that is, the spire rises proportionately to the width.
The index, therefore, gives a direct means of comparison of the relative heights of the spires ; as it rises, the spire becomes higher.
As has been stated above, this change in form is observed in passing from station to station in each of the series represented in fig.
6; that is, a geographical arrangement of the forms is also a morphological one.
1911.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
159 Variation in the Two Groups.
At Somerset, in passing from the base of the hills or from the valleys to the hill-tops, the form is observed to change, and the rise is quite noticeable as the tops of the hills are reached.
From Somerset to the Ridge near Lincoln the rise in the spire is still continued, and this latter locality is a hill-top.
At Garrett's woods and at Bloomfield the spires are higher than at any of the Somerset stations and as high or higher than at the Ridge near Lincoln.
In the other series, from Kendal Road to the woods at King Edward Hotel, there is a similar rise in the spire.
This change in the form cannot be correlated with change of altitude measured from sea level, but is directly connected with a diminution in size ; as the size of the shell diminishes the shape changes, and the ratio of height to width increases, or the spire rises.
Examined locally, as at Somerset, this change may be seen in passing from the base to the top of a hill, so that it may be stated that valley forms and those living at the base of the hill are lower in the spire than those living at the hill-top.
The only place where valley and gully forms were seen in a natural, undisturbed condition was at Somerset.
In passing from the gullies and shaded valleys, with their wealth of rank tropical vegetation and the ground covered with a thick moist layer of dead leaves, to the stony hill-top, with its hardwood trees and broom-palm, the number of specimens encountered became greatly reduced.
On some hills at Somerset, scarcely a groundliving shell, such as Pleurodonte, was seen at the top of the hill, yet the shade of the woods was often very dense.
But an examination of the ground showed that the surface coating of leaves was dry, it was mostly the fallen leaves of the broom-palm, which decay very slowly and do not form a good material for the growth of the fungus upon which the Pleurodontes appear to feed.
The palm leaves form a sort of thatch on the ground and shed the water on the hill-top, hence the leaves are dry ; and the loose stone on most of these hill-tops makes a porous layer, through which what water penetrates the palm thatch soon drains away.
Comparing these Somerset hills with those examined elsewhere in the more cultivated regions, the comparatively small number of individual specimens encountered upon the hill-tops was very noticeable.
But the molluscan population throughout all of this undisturbed region on the Somerset plantation was much less dense than in the majority of places that were examined in the more disturbed regions, and probably represents the original condition in these more cultivated parts.
In such places as the localities in the cleared and cultivated region near Mandeville, as Garrett's woods.
Bloomfield, Benmore woods, King' Edward Hotel woods and Cedar Hill woods, many of the forms probably were driven to the hills by the advancing cultivations, and the molluscan population hence became more dense in these places.
This would mean a mingling of the lower-ground forms with the hill-top forms, yet the general hill-top character is more pronounced here than in the hills at Somerset.
The larger forms were absorbed by the hill-top races in these cases, and the clearing killed off the lower-ground forms that did not migrate, so that the smaller hill-top races were no longer strengthened by the constant mingling with the lower-ground forms and hence the reduced size became a fixed character.
These isolated hill-tops, therefore, became isolated colonies, and strict equilibration of the forms within contracted environment, both as to the external influences and the mixture of substance due to hybridity, without mingling of the blood from the larger lower-ground forms, the supply of which was now cut off by their extinction due to advancing cultivation, could begin.
The result is the development of the small hill-top forms now characteristic of these colonies near Mandeville, or what may be called the Mandeville race of P. a. goniasmos.
They differ from the lowerground forms, as has been shown, by being of smaller size and by having a proportionately higher spire; but, in the colonies near Mandeville, these characters are accentuated, as compared with the hill-top forms found in the Somerset region, where mingling with the larger, and in general flatter, forms is still possible.
The Migrations.
Comparing all of the forms from all of the colonies, as is done in fig.
6, shows not only apparent migration lines, but indicates two waves of migration into the region from the north.
The first was probably represented in the extinct Somerset race, and these as they moved south towards Mandeville became differentiated, as I have pointed out.
The very old dead shells of the Mandeville region are generally rather high in the spire, higher than the living forms at Somerset of the same diameter.
The Somerset gully forms I take to represent a second migration, they are the lower-spired form.
At Somerset, the normal race has come from a mingling of these two stocks by longcontinued hybridity, and the Somerset hill-top form with its reduced size is the result of this mingling.
The same flat forms that resulted from this hybrid stock were seen at the Kendal Road and at the Somerset Road colonies; this hybrid, migrating into country occupied by the older, higher-spired forms, and mingling with them, produced the present Mandeville race.
But this Mandeville race, as we see it now in the hill-top colonies that remain, is a development from this mingling of the older, high-spired form, and the later hybrid of this with the lower-spired gully form, this hybrid having come into the Mandeville district as a second migration wave.
And the result of this mingling here to the south of Somerset has become, on account of its isolation in the hill-top colonies, a smaller, still higher-spired race than the ancestral one.
Causes of the Variation.
The rise of the spire from the bottom to the top of the hill or from the valley or gully to the top of the hill has been noted in other cases, but the cause assigned for the change of form has generally been the hypsometric change of pressure.
Thus Arnauld Locard, in his Etudes sur les variations malacologique du Bassin du Rhone, published in 1881, says that the elongation of the spire is one of the effects of change of altitude upon molluscs.
This had been noted previously by A. C. Recluz, in the case of Helix pomatia in the mountains of the Auvergne, and also in Helix aspersa in the region of the Midi.
Locard made similar observations in the case of H. pomatia in passing from Lyons to Grenoble.
Both observers noted a rise in the spire in passing from the lower to the higher altitude and both attribute this change in form to the diminution of air pressure in the higher altitude.
In a paper published in 1904 3 Raffaelo Bellini reiterates this view that the elongation or rise of the spire is to be attributed to the influence of the diminished atmospheric pressure.
Bellini's observations were on species observed on the island of Capri, and are embodied in a previous paper entitled, Alcune osservazioni sulla distribuzione ipsometrica dei molluschi terrestri neW isola di Capri, 4 " in which he notes the elongation of the spire in passing from the base to the tops of the hills, and attributes it to the diminution of the atmospheric pressure.
That this is not the predominant cause in the case of the species considered in this paper the foregoing descriptions will make clear, for here we find at Somerset, some 2,250 feet in elevation, the lowest-spired forms of P. a. goniasmos encountered, while at the Somerset Road colony the spire is higher, but the altitude above sea level lower, less than 2,000 feet.
At the Ridge near Lincoln the elevation is about 2,800 feet, but the form of P. a. goniasmos found here is lower in spire than that 3 R. Bellini, L'influenza dei mezzi come causa di variazione e di disperzione nei molluschi, Bolletino del Societa da naturalisti in Napoli, XVIII, 1904, p. 159.
4 Rendiconto del II Cong.
Zool.
Italia.no, Naples, 1901.
11 collected at the King Edward woods at an elevation of less than 2,000 feet, probably nearly one-third nearer the sea level than the Ridge near Lincoln colony.
But the diminution in size in passing from the valleys and bases of the hills to the tops, which accompanies the rise of the spire, is an undoubted fact, although diminished atmospheric pressure is not here the controlling factor.
That it should ever be a controlling factor does not seem likely, as the variation from day to day in barometric pressure at a given point may, in this latitude, at least, amount to what would be equivalent to a difference in elevation of 1,000 feet or even as much as 1,500 feet inside of 24 hours.
The diminution in size and the rise in spire are independent of absolute altitude above sea level, but are noted in passing from the bottom to the top of one hill.
There is in P. a. goniasmos a direct connection between these two characters, the size and the height of spire vary inversely.
The cause of the diminution in size may well be the cause of the rise of the spire also.
From the observations that I have made upon these Jamaica mollusks this diminution in size, which accompanies the rise in the height of the spire, appears to be controlled mainly by the distribution of moisture.
Variations in the conditions of moisture may occur quite independently of the altitude, and I expect in a subsequent paper to discuss this influence in connection with some other species where altitude is not a factor, and where the distribution of moisture is not controlled by the altitude nor by the topography.
On the hill-tops, as has been pointed out, the amount of moisture found in the ground, in the leaf cover in which these Pleurodonts live, is less than on the slopes of the hills, and, from the wooded valleys and gullies to the hill-tops, this moisture in the leaf cover steadily diminishes, so that, as has been shown, the available food for the molluscs diminishes from the lower ground to the hill-top.
Quite as important is the fact that the hill-tops are only moist and the conditions of moisture favorable for the growth of the mollusks at intervals following rains.
In the gullies and wooded valleys the supply of moisture and food is continuous, on the hill-tops it is intermittent.
The forms living in the hollows and lower ground at any place are, therefore, continuously supplied with the necessaries of life, while those living on the hills are supplied intermittently.
Growth is continuous in the lower-ground forms, but it proceeds with many stoppages on the hill-tops.
In a given period of time, therefore, the lower-ground forms can grow on more days, perhaps often on twice as many days or even more, than those living in the higher slopes and hill-tops.
In a given time the valley and gully forms can attain a much larger size than the hill-top forms.
There is one dry season in the island and, in general, in the West Indies, during the months from December until the " spring rains" begin, in April or May, and during this dry time the showers are rare.
For the rest of the year they may occur at any time, with maximum rainfall in May and November in most years.
During the dry season, all of the Pleurodontes are more or less inactive ; when the rains begin in April, they at once begin to pair.
The young born one summer have grown to the adult state and pair the next summer.
Those which have had the greater number of days of activity or of growth — the gully and lower-ground forms — will hence reach a larger size than those which have had, say, half as many growing days during the wet season; all have been inactive during the dry season.
In the two cases the growing days may stand as one to two, the inactive period of the dry season is common to both, and after the same lapse of time in each case the animal becomes adult.
Naturally the form that could grow on the greater number of days and the form that had the most abundant food supply will attain the larger size.
The diminution in size on the hill-tops can thus be connected with the conditions of moisture, the supply during the growing season being less in these situations.
The rise of the spire is effected by a closer coiling of the whorl or the suture line drops more rapidly as the spire rises, and the diameter of the coil, the cross section of the aperture, does not increase so rapidly as when the spire is flatter.
In a subsequent paper on the growth of the shell I hope to treat this matter more at length.
Any mechanical injury to the shell results in the dropping of the whorl below the periphery and a consequent rise of the spire.
Lessened vitality, due to insufficient food supply or mal-nutrition of any kind, or in general what may be considered pathological conditions, seems to produce the same effect — a dropping of the coil and a consequent rise of the spire.
Frequent stoppages of the growth of the animal due to periodic times of dryness would probably have the same tendency.
On the hill-tops we find these conditions of periodic dryness and mal-nutrition during the season when the forms living in the lower ground are growing continuously under optimum conditions of moisture and food supply, and these conditions seem to me to be the controlling factors in the variation in size and form of shell observed, aside, of course, from the effects of isolation on hybridity.
Isolation under such conditions as obtain upon the hill-tops results eventually in an adaptation of the substance of the organism to its environment, however, and the equilibration produces a race that can live under such conditions, so that the number of individuals does not diminish in a given area, but rather increases with the diminution of size; by which a given food supply will serve for a larger number of smaller individuals.
Explanation of Plates VII-XI.
Plate VII.
— Pleurodonte {Eury crater a) jamaicensis Gmel.
Figs.
1, 2.
— The rather large forms from the Somerset colonies.
Figs.
3, 4.
— A larger and smaller form from the Ridge near Lincoln colony; these are quite as large as the Somerset race.
Figs.
5, 6.
— The small race from Garrett's woods colon y.
Plate VIII.
— Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr.
Figs.
1, 2.
— The form of the shell of this species at the Somerset colonies; it is the P. bainbridgei pretiosa of C. B. Adams.
Figs.
3, 4.— Two shells showing the form of the species at the Ridge near Lincoln colony, which somewhat approaches the P. b. pretiosa of Adams.
Figs.
5, 6.
— Two shells from the Garrett's woods colony, showing the very slight depression of the suture line, much less so than at the Ridge near Lincoln .
Figs.
7, 8.
— Two shells from the Benmore woods colony showing the depression of the suture at a minimum.
Figs.
9, 10.
— Two shells from the Cedar Hill woods colony, showing their close resemblance to those from Benmore woods.
Plate IX.
— Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
At Somerset.
Figs.
1, 2.
— The extinct race at Somerset which shows the rather high spire of this type.
Figs.
3, 4.
— The Somerset gully race, with its acute periphery and moderately elevated spire.
Figs.
5, 6.
— -The normal Somerset form found nearly everywhere except in the gullies and on the hill-tops.
Figs.
7, 8.
— The Somerset hill-top form, a small race of the normal form.
Plate X.
— Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
The Somerset Road to Bloom field series.
Figs.
1, 2.
— Forms from the Somerset Road Colony, the present race is of the general type of the normal Somerset forms.
Figs.
3, 4.
— The living forms from the Ridge near Lincoln colony.
Fig.
5.
— The extinct race at Garrett's woods colony, showing the relatively high spire.
Figs.
6, 7.
— Living forms from the Garrett's woods colony.
Fig.
8.
— The extinct race at the Bloomfield colony, showing the rather high spire of this type.
Figs.
9, 10.
— Living forms from the Bloomfield colony.
Plate XI.
— Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B.
The Kendal Road to King Edward Hotel woods series.
Fig.
1.
— The extinct race at the Kendal Road colony.
Fig.
2.
— Living form of high-spire type at the Kendal Road colonies.
Figs.
3, 5.
— Living forms of the flat type at the Kendal Road colonies.
Figs.
4, 6, 7.
— Living forms from the Benmore woods colony.
Fig.
4 is a two-toothed form and 6 is a one-toothed form.
Figs.
8, 9.
— Living form from the Cedar Hill woods colony.
Fig.
10.
— Living form from King Edward Hotel woods colony of average size; the highest-spired forms were found here.
They closely resemble Pleurodonte abnormis Pfr.
Fig.
11.
— Living form from same locality as 10, about the smallest specimen taken at this locality.
Note.
— All figures in Plates VII-XI are natural size.
SCAPHOPODA OF THE JAMAICAN OLIGOCENE AND COSTA RICAN PLIOCENE.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Extensive collections of the fossils of the Upper Oligocene beds at Bowden, Jamaica, were made for the Academy some years ago by the late Uselma C. Smith and Mr. Silas L. Schumo.
While preparing a monograph on the recent Scaphopoda for the Manual of Conchology 1 in 1897-8, the writer determined the species of these beds, and prepared the following descriptions and figures.
Through oversight they were not published at that time.
Of nine species in our collection from the Bowden bed, two are represented by fragments too incomplete for characterization.
Two are identical with forms from the Oligocene of Santo Domingo, 2 but the number of species common to the two beds may be increased when the smaller species are collected in Santo Domingo.
The occurrence of rich Oligocene faunas of strictly littoral and sublittoral fades at levels but little above the modern sea level, in both Jamaica and Santo Domingo, indicates emphatically that there was no such general and profound or total submergence of that area during the upper Oligocene as has been assumed by Dr. Schuckert.
3 It is, moreover, inconceivable to students of the land-snails of the West Indies that the peculiar special faunas of the several islands could have been evolved since the Oligocene.
Dentalium costaricense n. sp.
Fig.
3.
D. dentate Gabb, Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., n.
ser., VIII, p. 369 (in part).
D. costaricense Pilsbry, Manual of Conchology, XVII, p. 254 (name only).
Shell moderately curved, solid, moderately tapering.
Surface sculptured with numerous somewhat unequal longitudinal rounded cords, separated by interstices as wide as themselves, with threads in some of the intervals, about 28 cords at the larger end, not counting the interposed threads; towards the smaller end alternate cords become more prominent, especially on the concave side; there are moderate, oblique growth-striae throughout.
Aperture oblique, with thin peristome.
Both orifices circular.
1 Manual of Conchology, vol.
XVII.
2 Scaphopoda of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
for 1897, pp.
465-476.
3 Paleogeography of North America, plate 97.
1G6 [Feb., Length 254 mm.
(posterior end broken) ; greatest diam.
3.7 mm.
Pliocene(?
), Costa Rica, William M. Gabb.
This species was referred to the European D. dentalis by Gabb, but it is not closely allied to that species.
Dentalium (Tesseracme) dissimile Guppy.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat, Sci„ 1897, p. 469, pi.
XI, figs.
3-5 (January 18, 189S).
A common form in the Bowden bed, and the largest Jamaican species.
<© Figs.
1, 2.
Dentalium macilentum.
Fig.
3.
D. costancense.
Fig.
4.
Cadulus simrotlu.
Dentalium (Episiphon) macilentum n. sp.
Figs, l, 2.
Shell small, moderately curved, excessively slender, slightly tapering; surface smooth, somewhat glossy, with slight growth-lines only.
Tube very strongly compressed laterally throughout, wider and thicker along the concave than the convex side.
Both apertures oval or oblong.
Young stage acicular.
Dimensions of largest (though imperfect) specimen: Length 8.8, antero-posterior diameter at aperture 9.1, at apex 0.7 mm.
; lateral diameter at aperture 0.7, at apex 0.6 mm.
Bowden bed.
An abundant form, very strongly compressed laterally, sometimes 1911.]
167 actually flattened on the sides.
The shell-wall along the, concave side is decidedly thicker than that opposite along the convex side.
Another Episiphon, of very slender form, thin shell and circular section, occurs in the Santo Domingo Oligocene beds.
As the material is not very abundant, only one being presumably adult, the species was omitted from my account of the Scaphopods of that deposit.
The largest specimen seen has a length of 13 mm.
and a greatest diameter of 0.9 mm., and is almost smooth.
Dentalium (Episiphon) schumoi n. sp.
Fig.
5.
Shell small, slightly curved, excessively slender, the adults but slightly tapering, young shells acicular; rather thin; surface finely striated circularly, becoming on the posterior half strongly annulated by rather regularly spaced, close grooves, slightly oblique, and cutting the surface into narrow segments much as in D. (Fustiaria) circinatum.
Tube strongly compressed laterally throughout; apex simple or with a short projecting pipe or tube.
Length 8.2, antero-posterior diameter at aperture 0.78, at apex 0.56 mm.
; lateral diam.
at aperture 0.6, at apex 0.46 mm.
The specimen has evidently lost in length by breakage.
Bowden bed, not uncommon.
O m Fig.
5.
— Dentalium schumoi, specimens of various ages.
Strongly compressed laterally, and readily distinguished by the circular sculpture.
It is named in honor of Mr. Silas L. Schumo, who collected the material.
Dentalium (Khabdus) sp.
undet.
Numerous fragments of a slowly tapering species, circular in section, glossy, and very thin throughout, occur in the Bowden beds.
The largest measures 3.6 mm.
in diameter.
The thinness of the entire tube and the circular section of the smaller end readily distinguish the species from D. dissimile Guppy, but the fragments at hand are too imperfect for definition of the species.
Cadulus depressioollis Pilsbry and Sharp.
Proc.
Acad.
N. S.
Phila., 1897, p. 473, pi.
11, figs.
25-27.
Characteristic fragments of this species, originally described from Santo Domingo, are found in the Bowden beds.
Cadulus dentalinus (Guppy).
Pilsbry and Sharp, Manual of Conchology, XVII, p. 190, pi.
36, figs.
21, 22.'
Bowden beds, abundant.
This is the type locality.
Specimens received from Mr. Guppy have been figured in my volume on recent Scaphopods, where the relationships of the species are discussed (I. c, pp.
188-190).
Cadulus annulatus n. sp.
Rather a large, slender species of the group of C. dentalinus.
The swelling is only slight and near the anterior end; tube subcircular in section, a trifle flattened on the convex side at the oblique aperture; sculpture of very fine, close, oblique wrinkles throughout.
The length is about 1\ mm., greatest diameter 1 mm.
Bowden, Jamaica.
This species is represented by imperfect specimens only.
It may be recognized by the very fine wrinkles and slight swelling.
Cadulus sp.
undet.
A Cadulus, of the subgenus Polyschides, occurs in the Bowden beds, but only fragments are in the collection.
There are several species belonging to the same group in the Eocene and Oligocene of the southern United States.
Cadulus simrothi n. sp.
Fig.
3.
Shell minute, smooth, slightly arcuate, biconic, strongly swollen in the middle, rapidly tapering toward both ends, produced in a short tube posteriorly; greatest diameter contained about 2 J times in the length of the shell.
Outline of the most convex side irregular, the contours being but slightly convex above and below the "equator," and sometimes a little concave near the posterior orifice; outline of the opposite side similar, but less convex.
Tube circular in section at "equator" and aperture, decidedly oval at posterior or anal orifice, being compressed on the convex and less so on the concave side.
Aperture much larger than the other orifice, oblique, the peristome thin.
Anal orifice oval, decidedly wider than long, obstructed by a circular callus within; edges unslit.
Length 2.1 mm.
; diameter at aperture 0.37, at greatest swelling 0.9 mm.
; antero-posterior diameter at apex 0.27, lateral diameter 0.3 mm.
Bowden, Jamaica.
This is, I believe, the earliest member of the typical group of Cadulus yet known.
It is not unlike the recent C. exiguus Watson, but this species is a little broader, the diameter contained 2£ times in the length.
In C. exiguus the shell is "contracted into a tube at either end."
In C. simrothi the posterior end only is tubular and the shell is a little larger.
March 7.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair.
Fifty-three persons present.
The death of Benjamin Chew Tilghman.
a member, March 6, 1911, was announced.
The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award was elected as follows : Richard A. F. Penrose, Jr., Henry F. Osborn, Amos P. Brown, Frederick Prime and Edgar T. Wherry.
The Council reported that Mr. George Vaux, Jr., had been appointed Solicitor of the Academy, and Mr. Frank J. Keeley Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections.
Dr. Henry Tucker made a communication on the dangerously poisonous snakes of the United States.
(No abstract.)
March 21.
Henry Skinner, M.D., in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The death of Amos R. Little, a member, December 16, 1906, was recorded.
Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., read a paper on the extension of the usefulness of natural history museums.
(No abstract.)
Remarks on New Cirripedes.
— Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of certain barnacles of the genus Alepas living attached to large Discomedusse.
The history of the genus was recounted.
Alepas is remarkable for the lightness of its organization.
The external tunic is very thin; the cirri are short, weak, and but slightly chitinized.
The genus was instituted by Sander Rang for a form obtained off the Strait of Gibraltar about the year 1817.
No modern account of this Atlantic Alepas has been published, but subsequent authors referred to the same genus a long series of nude barnacles living attached to a solid substratum, but which differ in important features from the true Alepas.
For these discrepant forms the speaker has erected the genera Heteralepas and Paralepas.
A true Alepas has been found in the eastern Pacific, A. pacifica Pils.
Figures were exhibited of two additional species, obtained by the U. S. Fisheries Steamer "Albatross" in the Philippines.
Among other barnacles commensal on decapod Crustacea, obtained at the Johns Hopkins tropical laboratory at Montego Bay, Jamaica, and submitted by Dr. John Paul Givler, there is a new form of Octolasmis, remarkable for the completely calcified plates.
In all other known species of the genus the calcified portions of the plates have been reduced.
This is therefore a form retaining archaic or ancestral features.
It was found on a spider crab, and may be described as follows: Octolasmis prototypus, n. sp.
(figs.
2, 3).
— The capitulum is acutely ovate, almost entirely covered by the well-calcified plates, which have the white color and dense texture of the plates of Lepas.
The scutum is divided by an arcuate slit into a longer occludent and a shorter, triangular lateral segment.
The latter is acute above, rounded at the two basal angles, and nearly as high as wide.
Like the tergum, it has faint sculpture of concentric and radiating striae.
The tergum is very large, about as long as the carina, and nearly as long as the scutum.
The lower end tapers, and extends between scutum and carina; the upper end is truncated, and the scutal margin a little hollowed to receive the apex of the scutum.
The carina is but little curved and only shortly forked at the base.
It is somewhat separated from the other plates.
The peduncle is finely annulated in preserved examples, whitish, and decidedly longer than the capitulum, often H times its length.
Length of capitulum 3.6, width 2.5 mm.
; length of peduncle 3.5 to 4 mm.
The cirri resemble those of 0. forresti.
The first pair is very short, widely removed from the second, its rami consisting of 6 and 7 segments, which are densely hairy.
The sixth pair has rami of 14 segments, armed comb-like with spines, 9 or 10 pairs on a segment, as figured by Stebbing for 0. forresti (Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), XIII, pi.
15, upper right-hand figure).
Maxillse as in 0. forresti.
Mandibles having long spines on the lower side below the lower point.
This barnacle differs from Paicilasma (Temnasjris) fissum Darwin, and the forms subordinated thereto by Annandale, 1 by the much wider occludent segment of the scutum, especially wide at its tergal extremity, and by the larger tergum.
It is also a much smaller barnacle.
In P. fissum, Darwin has shown that the cirri have a special arrangement of spines, which arise in transverse linear groups at the distal end of each segment, as in Paralepas or Alepas, whereas in Octolasmis prototypus the spines stand along the anterior side of the segments like the teeth of a comb, as in most other barnacles.
Barnacles with 1 Scertnjk af Yidensk.
Meddel.
fra den naturh.
i Kbhvn, 1910, p. 216.
172 [March, the cirri armed in this manner might be designated as ctenopod; those with cirri in transverse brushes as lasiopod forms.
Octolasmis antiguce Stebbing 2 (which Annandale 3 considers to be a form of 0. hoeki Stebbing), differs by the longer, very strongly arched carina and smaller tergum.
It is from the maxillipeds of Palinurids.
Octolasmis occlusa Lanchester, from Kelantan, is not unlike these species, but the segments of the scutum are more separated, of somewhat different shape, the carina is much more bowed, and the smaller terga are acute above. "
Pcecilasma" tridens Aurivillius is evidently a member of this group of Octolasmis, and not a PcecUasma.
By its fully calcified plates, 0. prototypus is the most primitive of its group.
Fig.
1.
— Scalpellum hendersoni.
Figs.
2, 3.
— Octolasmis prototypus.
In the course of dredging along the northern border of Florida Strait, in the yacht "Eolis," cruise of 1910, Mr. John B. Henderson obtained the new Scalpellum, here described.
Scalpellum hendersoni n. sp.
Fig.
1.
— The capitulum is compressed above, swollen across the lower whorl of plates; white; the length slightly more than double the width; both margins are arched, but the carinal more than the occludent.
Plates fully calcified, marked with concentric growth-lines and on the scutum, tergum and upper latus, a few weak radial striap.
2 Annals and Magazine of Natural History (6), XV, p. 18, pi.
2.
3 /.
c, p. 217.
The scutum is trapezoidal, the occludent and carinal borders subparallel, upper and basal margins about equally oblique; umbo terminal.
The tergum is triangular; occludent and carinal margins nearly straight and subequal; occludent margin convex.
The carina is arcuate, more so in its upper third, the umbo apical, slightly above the middle of the carinal margin of the tergum; roof strongly convex, the plate being U-shaped in section.
It widens rapidly towards the base, which enters V-like between the carinal latera.
Intraparietes very narrow, bounded by a ridge, and visible only in the upper part of the plate.
Upper lateral plate trapezoidal with apical umbo; the scutal margin is longest, concave above; the tergal next, arcuate; the carinal and basal margins are straight, equal, and at their junction form a right angle.
The rostral latera are triangular, obtuse at the rostral angle, widening rapidly to the other end.
There is no visible rostrum.
The inframedian lateral plate is narrow and high, contracting perceptibly at the lower fourth, where the umbo is situated.
Carinal lateral plates large, irregular, with the umbo at the lower carinal angle.
The carinal margin is concave and longest; basal margin about equal to that opposed to the inframedian latus; upper margin, against the upper latus, and shortest.
The two latera meet in a very short suture below the carina.
The peduncle is extremely short, densely covered with large scales in about 7 vertical rows.
Length of the capitulum 5, width 2.5 mm.
Length of the carina 3.75 mm.
Habitat and Station.
— Ten miles south of Key West, Florida, in 125 fathoms, on spines of a sea urchin, Dorocidaris , associated with Verruca nexa alba Pils.
Types No.
1890, A. N. S. P., collected by John B. Henderson, Jr.
Numerous specimens taken of nearly uniform size show it to be adult; a view confirmed by the swollen shape of the lower part of the capitulum.
It has much in common with S. gracilius Pils., but the rostral latera are quite different in shape, the carina does not extend so high on the terga, the capitulum is less elongate, and the peduncle has more rows of scales.
Nearly all other species which are otherwise related differ by having a flat-roofed carina.
The following were elected members : John Howard McFadden, Edwin S. Stuart, Bayard Long.
The following were ordered to be printed : 174 [March, MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES, V: THE GRAND CANYON AND NORTHERN ARIZONA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND JAMES H. FERRISS.
Prior to 1906 the work on southwestern mollusks of the mountain region had been confined to southern and central New Mexico and Arizona.
Between this region and the districts in Colorado and northern Utah which have been explored for snails, a great area, including the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, remained unworked.
To obtain some knowledge of this region, the authors spent the month of October, 1906, in the Grand Canyon; also collecting on Bill Williams Mountain (elevation, 9,000 feet), on the plateau of northern Arizona, 64 miles south of the Grand Canyon.
In the canyon we collected at the terminus of the Grand Canyon Railroad, a branch of the Santa Fe, at El Tovar, the Bright Angel Trail.
1 and at many localities reached from Bass Trail (also known as the Mystic Spring Trail), 24 miles west of the railroad, and on both sides of the river.
Most of our stations here are shown on the accompanying map (fig.
1).
We did not visit John Hance's trail, the Red Canyon Trail so-called, which lies east of Grand Canyon, the railroad terminus.
One species, Sonorella eoloradoensis, was taken here by Dr. C. Hart Merriam in 1889, but otherwise the snail fauna is unknown.
The Grand View Trail is also unvisited by collectors of shells.
The Oreohelices and Pupillidse of the upper and intermediate slopes will doubtless prove interesting 1 We are indebted to Dr. C. Montague Cooke, of Honolulu, for several species taken by him at the "Indian Gardens," Bright Angel Trail.
xBass camp Fig.
1.
— Grand Canyon in the vicinity of Bass Trail and Shinumo Creek, showing collecting stations, expedition of 1906.
Reduced and simplified from U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Topographic map, Shinumo quadrangle, edit, of August, 1908.
1911.]
175 and well worth investigation on these two trails, both of which are easily accessible.
In 1909 (August 19 to October 25) Messrs. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels extended the work to the region north of the Grand Canyon, exploring the Powell Plateau and the western side of the Kaibab Plateau, going as far north as Kanab, Utah.
A long and hard trip was also made westward to Mt.
Trumbull.
The route and stations are partly shown in fig.
2.
The northward extension of the route, to Fredonia, Ariz. (Station 38), and Kanab, Utah, is not shown on the map.
From Fredonia the route led southwest to Pipe Spring, Vermillion Cliff (Station 39), to Yellowstone Spring, southward across Antelope Valley (Station 40), to Mt.
Trumbull, where the following stations were occupied : 43, Base of northwestern part of mountain, 6,700 feet.
44, Spring at northwestern part of mountain, 7,000 feet.
45, Northwestern part of mountain, 6,700 feet.
46, Hurricane Fault, 8 miles from Mt.
Trumbull, 6,000 feet.
Station 41 is close to the figure 6, on the Kaibab Sheet Fig.
2.
— Part of route and collecting stations, expedition of 1909, north of the Grand Canyon.
1000 ft. contours traced from U. S. Geol.
Surv.
topographic map, Kaibab sheet, edition of March, 1886, reprinted January, 1900.
Powell Survey, long.
113°, lat.
36° 27', on a limestone ridge between Finley's reservoir and Mt.
Trumbull.
Station 42, ant-hills on same road westward.
North of the northern rim of the Grand Canyon only one species of large size was found, — Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.
); but this occurs in a multitude of colonies and in great variety of size and color.
So far as we know, this form does not occur in Arizona south of the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon.
The small shells are for the most part generally distributed on both sides of and in the Grand Canyon.
Special to the Grand Canyon, so far as we know, are the following forms : Sonorella Colorado ensis (Stearns).
Oreohelix yavapai, subspecies extremitatis , angelica and profundorum P. and F. Pupilla syngenes avast P. and F. Only the first of these is generally distributed, being found on both sides of the river, and for at least 30 miles along its course; also on the plateau south of the canyon at Bass Station.
The work of collecting in the Grand Canyon is severe.
The trails, except the Bright Angel or tourists' trail, are narrow and very steep.
You will dig snails on taluses ending in cliffs dropping hundreds of feet ; no sound comes back from the rocks your work dislodges.
Also, the sandstone and metamorphic rock is hard on the hands.
Oreohelix, in restricted localities, is sometimes very abundant, but Sonorella is always rare, and living ones can be obtained only by hard work.
Satisfactory work along the south side can de done from the camps or hotels at the several trails.
For work in the lower levels and on the north side of the river a camp outfit and pack animals are required.
These may be obtained at the Bright Angel, Bass, Grand View or Hance Trails.
The most productive horizons in the Grand Canyon are the Kaibab Limestone, which forms the slope immediately below the rim, and the talus at the foot of the Cross-bed or Coconino Sandstone, in sheltered recesses where a talus from the overlying limestone terrain has accumulated.
The deeper levels are comparatively unproductive, though Sonorella penetrates in suitable places nearly to the river.
The molluscan fauna of the Grand Canyon, with the sole exception of Sonorella, consists of species inhabiting northern Arizona on one or both sides of the canyon or of forms evidently derived from such speciesIt must, therefore, so far as mollusks are concerned, be considered a part of the Transition zone.
Sonorella is the sole Upper Austral genus.
It inhabits both sides of the river, up to and even upon the rim.
The canyon forms a barrier to the distribution of Oreohelix, the widely spread Arizonian species 0. yavapai not extending north of it, though very abundant in several subspecies on the southern side, while 0. strigosa depressa, very abundant north of the canyon, does not to our knowledge occur in the canyon or in Arizona south of it.
Some of the smaller species may prove to be similarly restricted, but more copious data are required to prove that this is the case.
The minute species, here as elsewhere, are widely distributed, probably owing to the facility with which they may be carried by cyclonic storms.
In a former paper of this series 2 we discussed briefly the relation of desert snails to their environments, concluding that the direct influence of desert climate had been overestimated basing this opinion upon the fact that these animals are quiescent except during the brief periods of damp or rainy weather; and accounting for the opaque and chalky texture of exposed snails as a protection against sunlight, probably brought about by selection.
A recent letter from Dr. Wm.
H. Dall, giving his somewhat diverse views upon the same topic, is here printed, by permission, so that those interested in these questions from the standpoint of molluscan study may have both views before them.
3 2 Mollusca of the Southwestern States, IV: The Chiricahua Mountains, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1910, pp.
47-50.
3 " In regard to direct action of sunlight and other factors of climate on desert snails (among which I reckon only those really exposed to it, and not those like Ashmunella, which by descending into the rock piles reach a moderately humid climate), my reasoning would be something like this: We know irritation of the surface in snails causes exudation of mucous matter (mixed with lime in the case of shell bearers), which tends to thicken and incidentally to contract or corrugate new growth, this irritation may be alkali in fresh waters, sand or infusoria in pearl oysters, alkali dust on arid windy volcanic islands, like the Galapagos or St. Helena, and scorching sunlight in desert places.
Now the first result would be to thicken the shell and exclude the irritant, otherwise the animal will die.
Assuming that before reaching the point of absolute exhaustion the amount of mucus has a limit, this means a retardation of growth in the spiral direction, and if (assuming that the color glands have also a limited amount of color to give the general secretion) it would be, in the case cited, abnormally diluted; with the result that the shell would tend to be whiter than the normal, not as a protection, but because of the dilution.
This explains the white Bulimini, Clausilias and Pupas, so conspicuous on hot rocks in South Europe.
Then comes in Natural Selection by killing off those which did not or could not sufficiently thicken themselves to ward off the light, and you have by the most simple direct action, without any heredity being called into play (unless through some transmission of acquired characters, which I regard in this case as very doubtful) all the characteristics of desert snails over the whole world developed in the individual by direct action.
"In the Galapagos snails the young nepionic whorls are normal, and I believe would continue so except for the direct action of the environment.
This affects those on the ground, grass and low shrubs.
Those living on the higher trees escape (by my hypothesis) the dust and continue or remain normal in their growth."
12 List of Species.
HELICID^].
'Sonorella coloradoensis (Stearns).
PL XII, figs.
26-30.
Helix (Arionta) coloradoensis Stearns, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol.
XIII, p. 226, pi.
15, figs.
6, 8, 12, 1890.
Sonorella coloradoensis Stearns, Pilsbrv, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p. 560.
1901.
Bartsch, Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol.
XLVII, p. 189, pi.
32, fig.
3 (shell of type), 1904.
The type specimen of this species measures: alt.
10, diam.
16.4 mm., umbilicus about 1.8 mm.
The locality given by Stearns and repeated by Bartsch, 4 Grand Canyon of the Colorado opposite the Kaibab Plateau, alt.
3,500 feet, is somewhat indefinite, on account of the considerable extent of the Kaibab Plateau.
Dr. C. Hart Merriam, to whom we applied for further details, writes: "I collected the type of Helix coloradoensis Stearns in September, 1889, in the Grand Canyon below the tank then known as Canyon Spring, not far from where John Hance afterward built what is known as the Hance Trail.
At that time neither the Bright Angel nor Bass's Trail had been heard of."
This locality is, properly speaking, opposite what is now known as the Walhalla Plateau, not the Kaibab Plateau.
5 As the river flows, it is about 13 miles east of the Bright Angel Trail, and 30 miles east •of Bass's Trail.
Owing to the sinuosity of the sides of the canyon, the actual distance along any level above the liver gorge and below the rim would be at least three or four times as great.
The specimens from the Bright Angel and Bass's Trails and from the north side differ from the type by having the umbilicus slightly larger.
The soft anatomy of the type was not described.
One of us has ■dissected specimens from both sides of the river at Bass's Trail.
The genitalia of a shell from " Spectacle Cove" (Station A) figured (fig.
3 A) show the species to be a true Sonorella, related about as nearly to the forms found in the region immediately south of Tucson, as to any southern species.
The penis (p.) is swollen distally, narrow in its basal half, where it is enveloped in a rather long muscular sheath.
It contains a tapering papilla (p.p.
), not quite half as long as the penis.
The epiphallus (epi.)
is about equal to the penis in length, slightly larger than the vas deferens.
There is no flagellum.
The penis 4 The localities for S. coloradoensis in Inyo and San Diego Counties, California, which Dr. Bartsch credits to Pilsbry and Johnson, were taken by them from a paper by Dr. Stearns, Nautilus, VIII, p. 29.
This paper was not noticed by Dr. Bartsch, who has shown that the shells in question are not S. coloradoensis.
8 See U. S. Geol.
Survey Topographic Map, Vishnu Quadrangle.
1911.]
179 retractor muscle inserts on the epiphallus.
The vagina is rather short and slender.
Atrium longer than usual in Sonorella.
Length of the penis, 4.5 mm.
; penis-papilla, 2 mm.
; vagina, 3 mm.
; spermatheca and duct, 21.5 mm.
Fig.
3.
— Genitalia of Sonorella coloradoensis.
A, Spectacle Cove.
B, bandless form from White Creek, Station G. A specimen of the bandless form from White Creek, a branch of Shinumo Creek, shows only slight differences in the genitalia from the " Spectacle Cove" form.
The atrium is shorter; penis-papilla more cylindric and blunter.
Length of penis, 5 mm.
; epiphallus, 4.7 mm.
; penis-papilla, 2 mm.
; vagina, 3.8 mm.
While S. coloradoensis seems to be generally distributed in the Grand Canyon, the colonies, except near the rim, are isolated and mostly small.
Except during wet weather, the snails adhere to eruptive or metamorphic rocks, making white circles thereon like other Sonorellas.
Specimens were taken by us at the following places : (South side of the Colorado River.)
(1) Bass's Station, on the Grand Canyon R. R., about four miles south of the Grand Canyon.
The shells vary from alt.
10.5, diam.
16 mm., to alt.
9.8, diam.
15 mm.
(2) Upper talus along the Bright Angel Trail from 100 to 400 feet below the rim.
The specimens are like those from Spectacle Cove, noticed below.
(3) Station C: Upper talus-slope in the bay about \ mile west of Bass Camp, a few hundred feet below the rim.
The shells here are small, alt.
8, diam.
13, width of umbilicus 2 mm.
None foimd alive.
In some examples the shoulder-band is extremely faint, but in most of them it is distinct.
(4) Station A: "Spectacle Cove," an embayment at the foot of the cross-bed or Coconino sandstone, in a talus resting upon the Aubrey red sandstone, with Oreohelix yavapai profundorum.
Specimens measure : Alt.
10, diam.
16.0, umbilicus 2.1 mm. "
9, " 14.8, " 2.0 " All have a band at the shoulder.
Very few living adults were taken, but, unlike the Oreohelices, the shells are entirely normal.
(5) Seep Spring, 2 miles west of Bass Trail, at base of the cross-bed sandstone.
Shells like the preceding lot from the same level.
(6) Station B: Head of Starvation Tank Wash, around the point to the right from Bass Trail, at about 5,800 feet elevation (PI.
XII, figs.
29, 30).
(7) Station D: Bass Trail, on the Red Wall, 5,000 feet.
Alt.
10.1, diam.
16, umbilicus 2.1 mm. "
9.5, " 16, " 2.1 " " 9.1, " 15, " 2.1 " The shoulder-band is wanting in about half of the shells taken.
(8) Station E: Foot of Red Wall, on Bass Trail, elevation about 3,850 feet.
Like the preceding, diam.
15 to 16.3 mm.
A few "bones" were taken still lower, at about 3,000 feet, in a talus of the Red Wall limestone.
Alt.
8.9, diam.
15.0, umbilicus 2.0 mm.
Fig.
29. "
9.0, " 14.3, " 2.0 " ; whorls 4$. "
8.5, " 13.6, " 1.9 " " 8.2, " 13.5 mm.
The corneous, brown shell is more or less streaked with white and invariably has a narrow band at the shoulder.
(North Side of the Colorado River.)
(9) Station F: Shinumo Creek, near camp, elevation about 2,500 feet.
Alt.
10.8, diam.
16.9, umbilicus 2.1 mm.
; whorls 4J. "
10.8, " 16.5, " 2.1 " " 9.3, " 15.1, " 2.0 " Similar shells occurred at Station 3, Shinumo Box, 2,750 feet.
the largest, alt.
12, diam.
17.2, umbilicus 2.5 mm.
(F. and D. 1909).
Some ofthese shells are the largest taken up to this time, exceeding the types.
The shoulder-band is faint or wanting on some shells.
(10) Station G: White Creek, about 1 mile above its confluence with Shinumo Creek (PI.
XII, figs.
26-28).
Seven per cent, of the shells taken show a chestnut band.
In the rest there is an ill-defined whitish band in its place.
Bandless shells are rare in all other localities.
The aperture is also more ample in this lot, somewhat trumpet-shaped, the lip is rather more thickened and rusty, and the parietal callus is generally thick at the edge.
Alt.
10, diam.
17.0, umbilicus 2.6 mm.
; aperture 8.8 x 10.0 mm. "
10, " 16.2, " 2.1 " " 8.2 x 9.5 " " 9, " 15.2, " 2.25 " " 8.0 x 8.8 " The genitalia of a specimen of this lot are figured, fig.
SB.
(11) Muav Box, Station 9, elevation 4,000 feet (F. and D., 1909).
Diam.
15-16 mm.
All taken have the shoulder-band.
(12) Station H: Mojave Amphitheatre below the red-wall sandstone (west side of Muav Canyon, near Button's Point).
The shells are all banded, measure 14 to 16 mm.
diameter, and do not seem to differ from those taken on the Shinumo at a much lower elevation.
At this point the authors made a dry camp in 1906, being unaware that there was water a few miles beyond.
In 1909 Ferries and Daniels took a fine lot of unusually large and dark colored Sonorellas at Station 107, about two miles farther up Muav Canyon, but they were lost before reaching home.
(13) Station 104, 6,700 feet, and Station 9, 7,500 feet, east side of Powell Plateau (west of Muav Wash).
Small, 13.5 to 14 mm.
diam.
; banded; aperture dilated, as in the shells described under (10).
This colony and those following were taken by Ferriss and Daniels, 1909.
(14) Station 5, east of Muav Canyon, near the Kaibab Saddle, 6,717 feet.
Small shells, diam.
about 13.5 to 15 mm., with the mouth less dilated than in the preceding lot, nearly normal.
All are banded.
(15) Station 25, west side of Powell Plateau, 6,700 feet.
The shells are small, diam.
about 14 mm., with thickened lip and somewhat dilated mouth, as in Nos.
(13) and (19).
(16) At Station 23, Horse Tank Canyon, on the west side of Powell Plateau, 7,000 feet, the shells are like those from No.
(12).
Some bandless individuals were also taken.
(17) Station 101, north end of Powell Plateau, 6,700 feet.
Only dead and bleached shells, normal in shape.
(18) Station 100, third amphitheatre north of the Kaibab Saddle, 182 [March, 6,700 feet.
Shells 14 to 15 mm.
diameter, normal in shape and color, similar to lot No.
(10).
This is farthest north for the species.
.
Oreohelix yavapai profundorum n. subsp.
PI.
XII, figs.
1-14.
The shell is opaque-white with some brownish, corneous streaks and often two fleshy, brown bands, the inner whorls more or less fleshtinted; solid; with sculpture of rather wide, irregular, subobsolete growth-wrinkles, but no spiral strice.
Whorls 4+ to 5, the last angular or subangular in front, descending moderately or deeply to the apeiture, often becoming shortly free.
Aperture very oblique or subhorizontal, the peristome slightly thickened and brownish, continuous and free or in contact with the preceding whorl for a short distance.
Fig.
1.
Alt 12.0, c liam .
14.8 mm. "
2. a 12.2, it 13.8 a " 3.
11 11.5, a 16.7 li umbilicus 3 mm.
wide. "
4. a 11.2, a 17.3 a " 5. a 9.5, a 17.2 it ■ umbilicus 4.5 mm.
wide. "
10. ii 9.0, a 13.2 a 11 9 Q it ii Adult shells measure from 13 to 17£ mm.
diameter.
The genitalia are figured (fig.
4).
The lower half of the penis is much swollen, the upper half slender and cylindric, the retractor muscle inserted at its apex.
The short epiphallus is rather stout.
Vagina short and very large.
The uterus in the individual figured contained four embryos ; the shells 4.7 mm.
in diameter, with 2f whorls and acutely carinate periphery.
The podocyst is larger on the upper embryos, but present in all.
Length of penis, 6.7 mm.
; epiphallus, 3 mm.
; vagina, 4 mm.
; spermatheca and duct, 17 mm.
Out of 100 shells from the type locality, taken at random, 56 per cent, resemble figs.
1-3, 44 per cent, being like figs.
4, 5.
The race is therefore markedly senile.
Grand Canyon, in "Spectacle Cove," Station A, the head of a recess in the cross-bed sandstone south of where the Mystic Spring or Bass Trail zigzags down, in a talus resting on the red sandstone forming the Le Conte Plateau.
Fig.
4.
— -Oreohelix yavapai profundorum.
Elevation about 5,700 feet.
Cotypes.
No.
103.234 A. N. S. P.. collected by Ferriss and Pilsbry, October.
1906.
The embryonic shell, of 2\ whorls, shows fine subregular ripples along the lines of growth, and in places some fine, very faint spiral striae may be traced ; on the base these spirals are more distinct.
They continue there during the first part of the neanic stage, but disappear after a diameter of 8 or 9 mm.
has been attained.
The main spirals are widely spaced, as in 0. yavapai, but at all stages of growth they are very weak.
The embryonic shell is light brown.
Some macula?
and streaks of opaque cream-white appear after the third whorl.
In the adult stage the surface becomes dull white and somewhat chalky from loss of the very thin cuticle, which is present in the embryonic and early neanic stages.
0. y. profundorum and the allied races, extremitatis and angelica, differ from 0. yavapai by the very weak spiral striation of the enibryFig.
5.
— Spectacle Cove (Station A), from opposite side below Bass Trail.
Type locality of OreohelLv yavapai profundorum on the mound at left end of talus slope.
onic shell.
0. profundorum resembles 0. yavapai, 0. y. ncomexicayia and 0. borbata in having a very short penis, its length about half the diameter of the shell or less.
In the strigosa group, so far as known, the penis is long, two-thirds the diameter of the shell or more, in alcoholic examples.
0. yavapai, neomexicana and profundorum are alike in genitalia, but 0. borbata differs by having the retractor muscle inserted on the epiphalliis, whilst in the others it is inserted at the apex of the penis.
The type locality of 0. y. profundorum is in an embayment of the cross-bed sandstone, where a talus at its foot rests upon the red sandstone.
Living specimens were taken only on the last mound of the talus at the head of the wash, shown on the left in fig.
5.
This mound is about 30 or 40 feet high, about 100 feet long, and has a great rock in the middle.
Dead shells were scattered over the talus for about 200 yards westward, nearly as far as the large rocks shown in the edge of the pinons.
Except where pifions are shown, the slope is covered with shrubs.
The Oreohelices live among moss and grass, around and under stones in great profusion.
With them live Cochlicopa, Pupilla, etc., and Sonorella coloradoensis, the latter found over the whole talus shown in fig.
5, but everywhere very scarce.
Numerous other taluses at and below the same level w T ere searched, but no other colony of Oreohelix was found.
All other colonies of Oreohelix seen are on the upper slopes only a short distance below the rim of the canyon.
In the absence of any source on the lower levels, O. y. profundorum must have been derived from O. y. extremitatis, which inhabits the slope above the cross-bed sandstone, whence individuals have fallen into the abyss.
The considerable divergence of the race on the lower level, and the fact that only one colony was found at that level, seem to indicate that most snails which are carried or fall over the cliff do not survive the terrific drop of several hundred feet.
In the series of several thousand shells taken there was one sinistral example.
That the colony of O. y. profundorum is decadent seems to be indicated by the fact that dead shells were found over an area many times greater than that now inhabited by living snails.
The markedly senile character of the shells also foretells approaching extinction.
Yet the local conditions appear altogether favorable and living individuals are very abundant in a limited area.
Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis n. subsp.
PI.
XII, figs.
15-21.
At Station 2, near Bass's Trail, about 200 feet below the rim of the Grand Canyon, the Oreohelices (pi.
XII, figs.
18-21) are more depressed than O. y. profundorum, less solid and less calcareous, invariably twobanded.
The surface is more or less suffused with light brown, especially on the spire, and the very thin pellucid cuticle is retained, so that the shell has a slight luster.
The embryonic whorls are like profundorum; the first third or half of the last whorl is acutely carinate in front, and the latter part descends very little (as in fig.
IS, 67 per cent, of the shells examined) or somewhat deeply (fig.
19, 33 per cent.).
Widely spaced granose spirals (such as are characteristic of O. yavapai) are visible on the base in front of the aperture in most of the shells.
The aperture is contracted less than in 0. y. profundorum and the peristome is not thickened.
The largest examples measure, alt.
8.2, diam.
16 mm., the smallest alt.
8.3, diam.
14 mm.
About 60 adults examined.
Fig.
18.
Alt.
8.0, diam.
15.8 mm.
; width of umbilicus 4.7 mm. "
19. "
7.8, " 14.5 " " " 4.0 " " 19. "
8.7, " 14.2 " " " 4.0 " " 20. "
8.5, " 16.0 " " " 4.3 " " 21. "
8.0, " 15.5 " " " 4.3 " Cotypes are No.
103.236 A. N. S. P., collected by Ferriss and Pilsbry, 1906.
Similar shells occur on the upper slope at the same level, in a bay of the rim, about a half-mile west, of Bass's Camp, on the southern rim of the canyon (pi.
XII, figs.
15, 16, 17).
Fig.
15.
Alt.
9.2, diam.
15.5 mm.
; umbilicus 4.0 mm.
wide.
16. "
8.1, " 15.1 " " 4.1 " 17. "
9.0, " 16.9 " " 4.9 " Oreohelix yavapai angelica.
PL XII, figs.
22-25.
On the Bright Angel Trail, at Grand Canyon, from 100 to 400 feet below the rim, which has here an elevation of 6,866 feet, the shells resemble 0. y. extremitatis in contour, except that the last whorl is somewhat more inflated.
The color is light brown, usually with a brown band below the periphery, sometimes with another above, but this is often wanting.
It is thinner and larger than extremitatis, and spaced spirals are more distinct, being well-developed on both the base and upper surface.
The embryonic whorls have faint spiral lines.
The first part of the neanic stage (up to at least 11 mm.
diam., with nearly 4 whorls in some individuals) bears spiral rows of cuticular scales readily visible to the naked eye.
There are about 8 spirals above, 10 below the periphery on the last whorl.
The last whorl is but slightly deflexed in most examples, rarely (8 per cent.)
more or less deeply so, approaching fig.
25, which is an extreme individual.
Fig.
22.
Alt.
9.0, diam.
17.0 mm.
; width of umbilicus 4.5 mm. "
17.0 " " " 4.9 " " 17.9 " " " 4.8 " " 16.0 " " " 3.8 " Individuals with deeply descending last whorl occurred chiefly at the lower level.
23. "
9.2, 24. "
9.2, 25. "
10.2, Alt.
9.5, cliam.
18.3 mm. "
10.2, " 17.0 " " 8.0, " 16.0 " " 9.8, " 16.0 " This race occupies the same zone as 0. y. extremitatis in the Kaibab limestone.
The stations are about 20 miles apart, but including the windings of the canyon, as the snail travels, the distance would be far greater.
The embryonic stage is very much alike in O. y. profundorum, extremitatis and angelica, but the neanic and adult stages differ.
Cotypes No.
103.239 A. N. S. P.. collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss, 1906.
Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.).
Pis.
XIII, XIV.
[Patula strigosa] var.
Cooperi Binnev, Manual Amer.
L. Shells, p. 166, fig.
153 (teste Ckll.).
Patula strigosa cooperi var.
depressa Ckll., Nautilus, III, p. 102, January, 1890, canyon near Durango, Colo. Oreohelix strigosa Gld., Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 272, pi.
XXV, figs.
45-47 (shell); pi.
XI, figs.
14, 15 (embryonic shell); pi.
XIX, fig.
3 (genitalia); pi.
XXII, figs.
1-3 (teeth); pi.
XXIII, fig.
25 (jaw).
New Mexican examples of O. s. depressa have been fully described and figured in a former paper of this series.
In the country north of the Grand Canyon it is an abundant snail, varying widely in size, form, color, and to a less degree in sculpture not only in different colonies, but frequently among individuals of one colony.
In some districts, as along the western escarpment of Powell Plateau, there is a marked tendency to lose the dark bands.
In some other places beautiful albino shells occur in colonies composed chiefly of well-colored shells.
There is a tendency in many places to produce more compactly coiled shells than typical depressa, the spire being higher and the total diameter and the umbilicus smaller in some of the shells.
This culminates in a form of shell which is not distinguishable from O. cooperi, found in a few stations.
In some arid situations, especially the head of Quaking Asp Canyon, the shells 'are conspicuously dwarfed, their development arrested.
No colonies are markedly gerontic, though in a few there is a tendency towards senile characteristics in occasional individuals.
The spiral sculpture is generally distinctly developed, and sometimes some larger, widely spaced spirals can be seen on the base of the shell.
Specimens are illustrated on Plates XIII and XIV.
Some comment on the several lots follows, beginning at the northern stations.
8 (1) Jacob's Canyon.
(PI.
XIII, figs.
1-5), Oreohelices were taken at Stations 68, 69.
70.
71.
The typical form and coloring (fig.
1) prevail, but there is also one color-form not elsewhere encountered, in which the bands are purple-brown and very wide, the upper one spreading to the suture or leaving a white belt below the latter (figs.
2-4).
There are also some pearl-white and dirty white shells (fig.
5).
The same color-forms occurred at Station 67, below the mouth of 6 Only one of us (Ferriss) collected P. S. depressa north of the Grand Canyon, being accompanied there by Mr. L. E. Daniels.
His impressions concerning the relations of shell-characters to the environmental factors of elevation, humidity and direction of slope are given below.
It must be remembered that the conditions in the Kaibab region are less accentuated than in the more arid mountains of the south.
"At the time our observations in 'Mollusca of the Southwestern States, No.
IV,' were written, environment seemed the controlling factor in the determination of size of the shell, northern exposures, with an abundance of shade and plant life and a longer growing season, would produce.
the larger shells.
In the region north of the Grand ( anyon many apparent exceptions to this rule were noted.
Often colonies of the same species but 100 feet apart varied 100 per cent, in size.
In a gulch facing north in the Powell-Kaibab saddle, in a box canyon with perfect snail conditions, the Oreohelix average 20 mm.
in diameter.
Above the box, in a more open country, they average 24 mm.
and were more plentiful.
"In the canyons and amphitheaters of these plateaux, with the same exposure, moisture, shade, elevation — mineral, plant and all other conditions equal so far as we could understand — each colony stood out by itself in color, size and shape of the spire.
These qualities seemed subject to mutation rather than controlled by environment.
"Thus, in Two-Spring Canyon, the shells in a colony on one side of a rock were 2.5 per cent, larger than those of the colony upon the other side, less than 100 feet distant ; and a colony on the west side of the stream, no farther away, was larger than either.
In the center of a colony on Powell Plateau, a 'family' of larger shells was found.
"Until we crossed the Kaibab Plateau, the collections of 1909 were at about the same elevation, in the limestone section.
In Two-Spring and Quaking Asp Canyons, both heavily wooded, the Oreohelices at the top, among the quaking asp, were 14 mm.
in diameter, gradually increasing in size, as we descended, to 25 mm., as would naturally be expected.
"In Snake Gulch, however, the largest shells were at the top, on slopes facing either north, west or south, the diameters running 25 and 26 mm.
at Castle Springs and vicinity.
At Big Springs, with abundance of shade and humidity the year around, and a warm southern exposure, the largest measurements were 21, and at the lowest colony hi the gulch less than IS mm.
"In Warm Springs Canyon, running from east to west parallel with Snake Gulch, the smaller colonies were midway in the canyon, those at both the top and bottom of the canyon being unusually large and robust, and it was the same in Jacob's Canyon, another parallel canyon of this group running to the west.
"We collected Oreohelix at 22 stations, elevation about 6,700 feet, in the saddle region of the Powell and Kaibab Plateaux; at 19 stations in Two-Spring and Quaking Asp Canyons in the Kaibab Plateau, at elevations between 6,500 and 8,250 ; at 20 stations in Snake Gulch, Kaibab Plateau, from 5,000 to 7,000 feet elevation ; at 16 stations in Warm Spring and Jacob's Canyons, Kaibab Plateau,, from 6,000 to 6,750 feet elevation."
Jacob's Canyon, in the second gulch north of Warm Spring Canyon.
It was not noticed at Station OS.
Fig.
1.
Alt.
12.8, diam.
23.0, umbilicus 5.9 mm. "
2. "
11.8, " 22.3, " 6.1 " " 3. "
11.3, " 22.7, " 6.0 " " 4. "
12.5. "
21.8, " 6.0 " " 5. "
11.8, " 24.0, " 6.1 ."
(2) At Station 66 (PI.
XIII, figs.
6, 7), in the first gulch facing west, north of Warm Spring Canyon, the shells are smaller and usually more elevated, the last whorl at the aperture generally falling well below the lower band.
Color and sculpture are normal.
Fig.
6.
Alt.
12.0, diam.
19. umbilicus 5.0 mm. "
7. "
10.5, " 17, " 4.6 " (3) In the head of Shinumo Canyon (PI.
XIII, figs.
10, 11, 12), Stations 50, 51, 52, the shells are typical in form, but a majority of them have the bands weak, or one or both may be absent (figs.
10-12, Station 50, 5,500 feet elevation).
Farther west, at Station 53, the bands are somewhat stronger.
Beyond this, going west, the shells are smaller (Stations 54, 55, 56, 57), the last whorl falls more, and the ends of the lip approach — senile characters, doubtless indicative of unfavorable conditions leading to decadence of the race (PI.
XIII, figs.
13, 14, "Station 55, at 5,500 feet).
Fig.
10, diam.
20 mm.
Fig.
11, diam.
19 mm.
Fig.
12, diam.
17.7 mm.
(Station 50).
Fig.
13.
Alt.
9.2, diam.
15.7 mm.
(Station 55). "
14. "
7.8, " 14.5 " umbilicus 4 mm. "
15. "
9.2, " 15.7 " (4) Moquitch Gulch, Stations 75, 76 (PI.
XIII, figs.
16-18).
The shells are of medium size, more or less brown, with typical bands.
An albino form, white with greenish, translucent bands, appears here.
Fig.
16.
Alt.
11.7, diam.
IS, umbilicus 3.9 mm.
(Station 76).
Fig.
17.
Diam.
17.3 mm.
Fig.
18.
Diam.
18.8 mm.
(Station 75).
(5) Continuing southward on Snake Gulch, we encounter snails essentially like those from Stations 49, 50 and 37 in Stations 35, 34, 33.
At Station 78, boldly marked two-banded shells and beautiful albinos occur, as already figured from Moquitch Gulch.
At Stations 32 and 77 most of the shells are large and dark, but a few are small.
(6) Warm Spring Canyon (PI.
XIII, figs.
8, 9).
Finely developed shells occur at Stations 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65 and 73 or 74, mostly with the normal color-pattern, but sometimes the bands are weak or almost absent, chiefly in shells from Station 61.
At Station 60 only fossil examples were taken.
Fig.
8.
Alt, 9.8, diam.
21.
0, umbilicus 6.5 mm.
(Station 62). "
9. "
11.0, " 22.7, " 6.3 " ( " 61).
(7) At Snake Gulch, below the Coconino Smelter, Station 49, the shells resemble those from Station 66, having a low conoidal spire and depressed last whorl which falls decidedly at the aperture.
Bands narrow, rather pale.
(8) At Station 37, Snake Gulch, at the north side of the mouth of Smelter Gulch, elevation 5,750 feet, the shells resemble those from Station 50 (see fig.
11).
(9) At Castle Springs, Station 79, the shells are large and dark, two-banded or more or less clouded (PI.
figs.
19-21, 6,750 feet elevation).
Similar examples are found at Riggs Spring, Station 81.
Fig.
19.
A lt, H.8, diam.
20.0 mm.
(Station 79).
"2.
'• 13.5.
•' 23.8 •' umbilicus 6.2 mm.
(Station 79). "
21. "
12.C, " 23.2 " " 5.3 " ( " " ).
Between the preceding and following stations there is an interval of about 13 miles over the watershed in which no Oreohelices were found.
(10) Quaking Asp Canyon penetrates the Kaibab Plateau from the west, where it drains into Tapeats Creek.
Two-Springs Canyon is a branch of the head of Quaking Asp.
From the lower end of Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 98, 6,500 feet elevation, to the head, Station 83, 8,250 feet, there is a gradual diminution in size of the shells, no doubt due to increasing aridity of the higher stations westward.
At Station 98 the shells are very large, diam.
22 to 26 mm., but typical in form and color (PL XIII, figs.
24-26).
At Station 97 the size averages smaller, and there are some albino shells, white with translucent, greenish bands.
At Stations 99, 96, 94, 93, 92, 91, 90, 89, 87, 88 there are similar shells, the size diminished a little (PI.
XIII, figs.
22, 23, Station 91, 7,000 feet).
Stations 86, 85, 84 and 83 show shells still further diminished, adults measuring, alt.
9 diam.
14 to alt.
7, diam.
11.5 mm., with 4| whorls (PI.
XIII, figs.
27, 28, Station 84).
The color is typical; the periphery angular in front and the last whorl descends only very little to the aperture.
These colonies show no senile features.
Their development has been arrested, the small number of whorls and the angular periphery being characters of youth.
At Two Springs, Station 27, the shells resemble those from Station 91.
Farther up the canyon.
Station 26, the shells became smaller,, 190 [March, adults measuring 12 to 15 mm.
diam., as in the head of Quaking Asp Canyon.
umbilicus 4.5 mm.
(Station 91).
ig.
22.
Alt 12.0, ( liam .
19.3, " 23. a 11.2. a 16.8, " 24. a 14.0, ic 24.5, " 25. a 13.0, a 21.0, " 26. a 15.0, (i 25.0, " 27. a 7.0, a 11.5, 3.8 6.3 5.8 6.0 2.9 98) ") 84) (11) At Station 100, Kaibab-Powell Saddle, 6,700 feet, the shells resemble those figured from Station 98, but are smaller, diam.
17.5 to 21 mm.
(12) Off the north end of Powell Plateau, at Station 17 (PI.
XIV, figs.
1-4), there is wide color-variation in the colony, the following f orms occurring : Figs.
1, 3.
Typical two-banded form, diam.
18 to 21 mm.
Fig.
2.
Upper band obsolete, the lower are weak same sizes.
Fig.
4.
White, with greenish, translucent bands, diam 19 mm.
(13) In other stations at the northern end of Powell Plateau, 13, 14, 15 (but not Station 16), and Station 105, near Oak Springs, the prevalent form (PL XIV, figs.
6, 7, 8) Station 15, 6,500 feet) is rather less depressed than typical depressa, though the depressed form also occurs (PI.
XIV, fig.
5, same station).
At Stations 13, 15 and 105 some examples are not distinguishable from 0. cooperi (PI.
XIV, fig.
9, Station 15; fig.
23, Station 105); yet some examples seem to connect with normal depressa.
At Station 18, at 6,700 feet, two adult shells (PL XIV, figs.
10, 11) are of the cooperi form.
Fig.
10.
Alt.
12.0, diam.
18.7, width of umbilicus 4.5 mm. "
11. "
11.9, " 18.0, " " 4.0 " The material from these stations (13, 15, IS) is too scanty to decide with certainty whether the series is divisible into cooperi and depressa or whether the globose specimens are inextricably connected with the depressa stock of the region.
Except at Station IS, the cooperi form occurs with undoubted depressa, as at Station 105, where figs.
22 and 23 of PL XIV occurred together.
(14).
The west side of Powell Plateau, Stations 25, 24.
22, 21, 20, 19, and Station 16 at the north end, have a somewhat different race.
There are typical two-banded depressa (PL XIV, figs.
13, Station 16) and also specimens lacking one or both bands (PL XIV, figs.
14, 15, Station 16, 6,700 feet; fig.
16, Station 19).
The specimens vary from quite large, diam.
25, to medium size, diam.
about 19 mm.
At Station 16, 80 per cent, of the shells are bandless.
(15) On the east side of the Powell Plateau, Stations 10, 103, 8, 12, the shells are typical two-banded depressa (PI.
XIV, figs.
17, 18, 19, Station 103, 6,700 feet) varying to forms with the spire higher (figs.
20, 21, same station).
Fig.
21, alt.
12.3, diam.
18, umbilicus -A nun.
Thysanophora ingersolli (Bid.).
Bill Williams Mountain ; Two-Spring Gulch, Kaibab Saddle.
Thysanophora hornii (Gabb).
Shinumo Creek, on the north side of the Grand Canyon.
Farther north than this species has been reported hitherto.
ENDODONTID^.
Pyramdula (Gonyodiscus) cronkhitei (Newc).
Bill Williams Mountain.
It was not found in the Grand Canyon, but north of it was taken at Castle Springs and Rigg's Spring, Snake Gulch, Kaibab Plateau; Mt.
Trumbull; also Deception Lake and Crocodile Lake near Kanab, Utah, 5,500 feet elevation.
ZONITIDJE.
Vitrina alaskana Dall.
V. Pfeifferi Newc.
not of Desh.
Living specimens were taken on Bill Williams Mountain.
Numerous dead shells were found near a small spring in the Grand Canyon below the cross-bed sandstone, 2 miles west of Mystic Spring Trail.
This spring is called Seep Spring on the topographic map, Shinumo quadrangle.
The average size of adults here seems to be about 6 mm.
diam., but one shell measures 7.4 mm.
We did not find Vitrina elsewhere in the Grand Canyon, but northward it occurred at Warm Spring Canyon and Rigg's Spring, Kaibab Plateau, and at Mt.
Trumbull.
The living animal observed October 15, at Bill Williams Mountain, is far less voluminous than V. limpida.
There is one small shell-lobe, covering the termination of the suture.
In progression the tail does not project behind the shell.
Vitrea indentata umbilicatac 'Singl.'
Ckll.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Grand Canyon along the Bright Angel Trail from just below the rim to the base of cross-bed sandstone and at the Indian Gardens; Bass Station, Grand Canyon R. R.; Station H, on the north side of the canyon.
Also taken on the north side of the Grand Canyon on Powell Plateau ; Kaibab-Powell Saddle ; Castle Springs, Snake Gulch; Two Springs, Kaibab Plateau.
Euconulus fulvus alaskensis (Pils.).
Bill Williams Mountain.
Grand Canyon, Bright Angel Trail, from just below rim to base of cross-bed sandstone.
Mystic Spring Trail about 200 feet below rim, and Station C, about a half-mile west of Bass's Camp; "Spectacle Cove," Station A.
North of the Grand Canyon; Powell Plateau, Station 18; Kaibab Saddle and plateau at Stations 5, 7, 12, 66, 100; Riggs Spring, Snake Gulch; Castle Springs; Warm Spring Canyon ; spring on the northwest side of Mt.
Trumbull.
Zonitoides milium meridionalis Pils.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Zonitoides minuscula (Binn.).
Bill Williams Mountain.
Base of Mt.
Trumbull.
Zonitoides arborea (Say).
Bill Williams Mountain.
Snake Gulch, Station ll 1 TT.
LIMAOID^E.
Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni P. and V. North of the Grand Canyon in Snake Gulch at Big Spring and Station 49, below the Coconino Smelter; also Station 48.
SUCCINEXD^E.
Suocinea avara Say.
Bass Station, Grand Canyon R. R. ; Grand Canyon on the Mystic Spring Trail along the slope a few hundred feet below the rim, and in the amphitheatre ^ to f mile west of Bass's Camp, on the upper slope ; "Spectacle Cove" and Seep Spring, 2 miles west of trail, below cross-bed sandstone; red wall sandstone at 5,000 feet.
On the north side of the river we found it along Shinumo Creek, in the box of White Creek, and Ferriss and Daniels took it on the Kaibab Saddle, at ( )ak Springs, Snake Gulch, Station 1U-, at Warm Spring Canyon, Station 59, and the Hurricane Fault, Station 46, 6,000 feet, near Mt.
Trumbull.
It lives in a great variety of stations, a large form occurring in humid places, smaller shells in arid situations.
Succinea retusa Lea.
The Greens, 6 miles west of Kanab, Utah; Deception Lake, northwest of Kanab.
Succinea hawkinsi Baird.
The Greens, 6 miles west of Kanab, Utah.
The specimens seem to be typical of this very rare and distinct species, here first reported from so far south.
1911.]
193 Succinea grosvenori Lea.
North of the Grand Canyon at Big Spring, Snake Gulch, Station 78; Antelope Valley, Station 40, on ant hills; Finley Reservoir near Mt.
Trumbull, and at the northwest base of the same mountain.
FERUSSACIDJE.
Cochlicopa lubrica (Mull.).
Grand Canyon : Bright Angel Trail, from a short distance below the rim to the foot of the cross-bed sandstone and at the Indian Gardens.
Mystic Spring Trail on the Spectacle Cove talus, Station A, and near Seep Spring, about 2 miles west of the trail, both places at the base of the cross-bed sandstone.
PUPILLID^J.
Pupoides marginata (Say).
Finley's reservoir near Mt.
Trumbull.
Pupoides hordacea (Gabb).
Spring on the northwestern side of Mt.
Trumbull and at Finley's reservoir; Antelope Valley.
Pupilla syngenes (Pilsbry).
Pupa syngenes Pils., Nautilus, IV, p. 3, May, 1890; V, p. 39, pi.
2, figs.
1, 2.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1S90, p. 296, pi.
5, figs.
1, 2 (Arizona) ; 1900, p. 606, with form dextroversa P. and V. (San Rafael, N. M.).
Pupa syngenes Dall, Nautilus, VIII, p. 35 (Beaver Creek, Montana).
This sinistral species was based on specimens from Arizona, the exact locality unknown, fully described and figured in these Proceedings for 1890.
Ten years later a dextral form was noted.
Specimens of P. syngenes are before us from San Rafael and Grants, N. M., and Holbrook, Jerome, Purtyman's ranch on Oak Creek, and the Grand Canyon, Arizona.
Dall has reported it from Beaver Creek, Mont., but none are known from Wyoming, Colorado or Utah.
Fig.
6.
— Pupilla syngenes dextroversa.
San Rafael, N. M. 13 In Pupilla it is obvious that dextral forms are the more primitive, the sinistral forms derived from them.
P. syngenes dextroversa, therefore, perpetuates the original stock of the species, of which P. syngenes is a divergent branch.
P. s. dextroversa (fig.
6) is subcylindric, a little wider near the upper end.
The last whorl is flattened laterally, with a strong rounded crest and a deep constriction behind the lip, which is thin and very narrowly expanded.
The parietal lamella is slightly over one-fourth of a whorl long; the columellar lamella small and deeply immersed and the lower palatal nodule well-developed or weak, but invariably present in adult shells.
The size varies.
Length 4, diam.
1.7 mm., whorls 9.
3, " 1.6 " " 7i P. s. dextroversa differs from P. blandi by its larger, comparatively narrower and more cylindric shape, and the greater number of whorls.
The two forms were doubtless of common ancestry.
Types of P. s. dextroversa are No.
79,460 A. N. S. P., from San Rafael, N. M., collected by E. H. Ashmun.
Also taken at Holbrook, Ariz. (Ashmun), at Grants, N. M. (Joshua Baily, Jr., and Albert Baily), and in the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, see below.
The specimens from San Rafael and Holbrook are mirror images of the sinistral P. syngenes found with them.
At Grants very few were found, no sinistral ones with them.
It appears, therefore, that some colonies of the older dextral form occur unmixed with sinistral, and sometimes the sinistral form is found unaccompanied by dextral.
Our records of P. syngenes in the Grand Canyon follow.
North of the Grand Canyon Ferriss and Daniels took P. syngenes at Station 25, Powell Plateau; Stations 100, 5 and 7 on the KaibabPowell saddle; and at Station 66, Kaibab Plateau.
It w r as associated with form dextroversa at Stations 5 and 7, near the "Stone House."
Grand Canyon at the Bright Angel Trail, about 100 feet below the rim.
P. syngenes and P. s. dextroversa, 19 of the former, 12 of the latter, normal in shape, most adults having a palatal tubercle.
P. syngenes was also taken near the base of the cross-bed sandstone, one specimen.
Mystic Spring or Bass Trail.
At Spectacle Cove (Station A), on the Oreohelix talus, below the cross-bed sandstone, 103 examples of P. syngenes from half-grown to adult were taken, all of them sinistral.
Adults vary from 3 mm.
long w T ith 7 whorls to 3.7 mm.
with 8 whorls.
Most of them are triplicate, the columellar lamella and lower palatal fold distinct.
The larger ones from this place are typical in shape; the smaller are shorter than syngenes from any other locality in our series.
Fig.
7.
— Pupilla syngenes Pils.
Spectacle Cove, near Bass Trail.
Lengths 3.8, 3.5 and 3.2 mm.
Along the upper slope of the Bass or Mystic Spring Trail, Station 2, there is an extensive colony of syngenid forms.
We found them most abundant in the humus, among low brushwood, about 200 feet below the rim.
Two forms occur here together, a dextral form, P. s. dextroversa, and a sinistral, P. s. avus, described below, in about equal numbers, 272 of the former and 256 of the latter in the lot collected.
The P. s. dextroversa are typical in shape, but larger than the types ; the crest is wide and rather far from the lip-edge; a lower palatal tooth is developed.
Specimens measure: Length 4.5, diam.
1.8 mm., whorls 10.
3.7, " 1.8 " " 9.
Fig.
8.
— Pupilla syngenes form dextroversa P. and V. Bass Trail, about 200 feet below the rim.
Lengths 4.5 and 3.75 mm.
The last is the smallest adult seen from this place; most examples are over 4 mm.
long.
Specimens of this lot are figured, fig.
8.
196 [March, At about the same elevation about \ or f mile west of Bass's Camp a similar specimen of dextroversa was taken.
Pupilla syngenes avus n. subsp.
Fig.
9.
Shell sinistral, the last whorl deviating tangentially and ascending; teeth deeply immersed ; parietal lamella much longer than in P. syngenes or dextroversa, about a half-whorl long.
Length 5.2, diam.
1.8 mm., whorls 10^.
4.3, " 1.7 " " 9i 4.0, " 1.7 " " 9i Types No.
94,220 A. N. S. P., from upper slope of the Grand Canyon along the Mystic Spring or Bass Trail, about 200 feet below the rim, Station 2; abundant with P. s. dextroversa.
Fig.
9.
— Pupilla syngenes avus, Cotypes.
Lengths 5.2, 4, 4 and 4.2 mm.
The special characters of this race, being those of senility, are unequally developed in different individuals.
The figures give a fair idea of the variations.
Finding these shells associated with about an equal number of P. s. dextroversa of about the same size, Ave at first were disposed to think them all one race in which the shell was indifferently dextral or sinistral; but on closer study it appears that the dextral forms never have the last whorl and aperture abnormal nor are the teeth so deeply immersed, or the parietal lamella so long, while almost every sinistral shell collected in this colony is markedly distorted.
It seems, therefore, that although the two forms are of common origin and live together, the different direction of the coil probably prevents interbreeding, thus segregating the sinistral stock, which in this colony is now in a late stage of senile degeneration.
Pupilla hebes (Anc).
Pupa hebes Anc, Pils.
and Van., Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1900, p. 589, pi.
22, figs.
9, 10.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Pupilla hebes kaibabensis n. subsp.
The shell is constantly much shorter than the typical form, length 2.7 to 2.8, diam 1.5 mm., whorls 5^.
Kaibab Saddle, Station 100, types No.
103,283 A. N. S. P., collected by Ferriss and Daniels, 1909.
Also Station 105 in the same region.
Bifidaria quadridentata Sterki.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella (Pils.).
Near the Mystic Spring Trail at Station A, on the Oreohelix talus, Spectacle Cove.
Bifidaria pilsbryana Sterki.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Grand Canyon at the Bright Angel Trail about 100 feet below the rim; Mystic Spring Trail, Station A.
Also north of the Grand Canyon at Stations 7, 12, 100 in the region of the Powell-Kaibab Saddle; Station 66, north of Warm Spring Canyon; and at a spring on the northwestern side of Mt.
Trumbull.
Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki.
Bright Angel Trail, about 100 feet below rim.
North of the Grand Canyon at Stations 7 and 12, Kaibab-Powell Saddle; Station 100, near Oak Springs; and at Mt.
Trumbull.
These places are all far north of its previously known range.
Vertigo concinnula Ckll.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Vertigo coloradoensis arizonensis Pils.
and Van.
Bill Williams Mountain.
VALLONIID^].
Vallonia cyclophorella Anc.
Bill Williams Mountain.
Grand Canyon about 200 feet below the rim and at the Indian Gardens, Bright Angel Trail.
North of the Grand Canyon at Stations 1, 12, 106 and Oak Springs on the KaibabPowell Saddle; Quaking Asp Canyon; Rigg's Springs, Snake Gulch; Warm Spring Canyon ; spring on the northwest side of Mt.
Trumbull.
A common shell in Arizona north of the Grand Canyon.
Vallonia perspectiva Sterki.
Grand Canyon at Seep Spring two miles west of the Mystic Spring Trail, below the cross-bed sandstone, and in "Spectacle Cove," Station A, at about the same level.
It was not taken north of the Grand Canyon.
LYMN^ID^l.
Lymnaea parva Lea.
Pipe Spring, Ariz. Lymnaea obrussa Say.
Deception Lake near Kanab, Utah, small, slender specimens.
Planorbis tenuis Phil.
Reservoir back of Williams, Ariz. Planorbis deflectus Say.
Fredonia, Ariz., Station 38, near the Utah boundary.
PHYSID^.
Physa virgata Old.
Reservoir back of Williams; Pipe Springs, Vermilion Cliffs, Station 39.
Physa traskii Lea and Ph.
orbignyana Lea are synonymous with virgata.
Physa humerosa Gld.
Indian Gardens on the Bright Angel Trail in the Grand Canyon (C. M. Cooke).
A small form, evidently referable to this species.
Physa gyrina Say.
The Greens, near Kanab, Utah.
Another small Physa of uncertain identity was taken in Deception Lake, Utah.
SPTUERUD2E.
Pisidinm sp.
undet.
The Greens, Kanab C?eek, near Kanab, Utah.
Explanation of Plates XII, XIII, XIV.
Plate XII.
— Figs.
1-14.
— Oreohelix yavapai profundorum P. and F. Cotypes.
Spectacle Cove.
No.
103,234 Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Figs.
15-17.
— Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis P. and F. Station C, Upper talus, west of Bass Camp.
No.
103,237.
Figs.
1S-21 — 0. y. extremitatis P. and F. Cotypes.
100-400 feet below the rim along the trail near Bass Camp.
No.
103,236.
Figs.
22-24.
— Oreohelix yaimpai angelica P. and F. Cotypes.
100-400 feet below the rim.
Bright Angel Trail.
No.
103,239.
Fig.
25.
— O. y. angelica.
Same locality.
No.
103,241.
Figs.
26-2S.
— Sonorella coloradoensis (Stearns).
Whitish, bandless form from White Creek, 1 mile above its junction with Shinumo Creek, Grand Canyon, north side.
No.
103,255.
Figs.
29, 30.
— Sonorella coloradoensis (Stearns).
Head of Starvation Tank Wash, Grand Canyon, south side.
Plate XIII— Or eoh el It strigosa depressa Ckll.
— Figs.
1, 3, 5.— Jacobs Canyon, Station 69.
No.
103,20S Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Figs.
2, 4.— Jacobs Canvon, Station 70.
No.
103,143.
Fisjs.
6, 7.— First gulch opening west above Warm Spring Canyon, Station 66.
No.
103,141.
Fig.
8.— Warm Spring Canyon, Station 62.
No.
103,13S.
Fig.
9.— Warm Spring Canyon, Station 61.
No.
103,116.
Figs.
10-12.— Shin umo Canyon, Station 50.
No.
103,148.
Figs.
13-15.— Shinumo Canyon, Station 55.
No.
103,197.
Fig.
16.— Moquitch Gulch, Station 76.
No.
103,205.
Figs.
17, 18.— Moquitch Gulch, Station 75.
No.
103,204.
Figs.
19-21.— Castle Spring, Snake Gulch, Station 79.
No.
103,172.
Figs.
22, 23.— Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 91.
No.
103,226.
Figs.
24-26.— Quaking Asp.
Canyon, Station 98.
No.
103,157.
Figs.
27, 28 — Head of Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 84.
No.
103,161.
Plate XIV.
— Oreohelix strigosa depressa Ckll.
— Figs.
1-4.
— North end of Powell Plateau, Station 17.
No.
103,186.
Figs.
5-9.— North end of Powell Plateau, Station 15.
No.
103,179.
Figs.
10, 11.— North end of Powell Plateau, Station IS.
No.
99,158.
Figs.
12-15.— West side of Powell Plateau, Station 16.
Nos.
94,159 and 103 1^8 Fie.
16.— West side of Powell Plateau, Station 19.
No.
103,1S0.
Figs.
17-21.— East side of Powell Plateau, Station 103.
No.
103,188.
Figs.
22, 23.— North end of Powell Plateau, Station 105.
No.
103,177.
A NEW FLAT FISH FROM NEW JERSEY.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Citharichthys micros sp.
nov. Head 3f ; depth 2\; D. 67; A.
52; left P. 16; right P. 10; left V. 7; right V. 5; scales 43 in 1.
1. to caudal base; 11 scales above 1.
1. at depressed pectoral tip; 12 scales below 1.
1. at depressed pectoral tip; about same squamation on blind side also ; snout tip to lower eye front about 5\ in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3^; maxillary 3^; longest dorsal rays about 2; longest anal rays about 2; least depth caudal peduncle 2f ; caudal length \\; left pectoral \\; right pectoral 2£; interorbital about 6 in eye.
Body strongly compressed, thin, contour elongately ovoid, with greatest depth about opposite depressed pectoral tip.
Caudal peduncle well compressed and only a little free.
Head moderate, greatly compressed, profiles similar or rather obtuse in front.
Snout short, blunt.
Eyes close together, only separated by narrow trenchant ridge, lower trifle large and but slightly extending before upper, its center about first third in head.
Mouth small, inclined vertically, slightly curved.
Lips fleshy, moderate.
Maxillary bent a little, extends back trifle beyond front eye edge, though not to that of pupil, distal expansion about 4 in eye.
Teeth in jaws uniserial, close-set, minute, slightly larger in front, sharppointed, conic, erect.
No teeth on roof of mouth or tongue.
Latter inconspicuous, fleshy, small, far back, end free.
Mandible well protruded, rami well elevated inside mouth.
Lower nostrils well separated, posterior over lower eye front and anterior a little before.
Upper nostrils on front edge of snout well separated.
Interorbital narrowly constricted.
Preopercle ridge and edge slightly inclined forward.
Gill-opening forward about midway in head.
Rakers 2+6 firm denticles, longest about \ of filaments, pointed, conic and apparently smooth.
Filaments If in eye.
Pseudobranchiae a little less than filaments.
Branchiostegals 4, membrane forming fold over isthmus.
Latter truncate and trenchant in front, both sides constricted.
Scales rather small, cycloid, disposed in rather even longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. on blind side, similar on upper side except some 1911.]
201 on the trunk inconspicuously ctenoid.
Apparently none of fins scaly basally except caudal, and on that fin scales small.
Head scaly, except jaws, snout and maxillary.
Scales on cheek in 6 rows.
L. 1. complete, a trifle deflected anteriorly and then straight or median Citharichthys micros Fowler.
along upper side, tubes simple and each one extending over entire exposure of scale.
Dorsal origin or base of first ray directly above front of lower eye, ends of anterior rays free, simple, and fin highest near last third in its length.
Anal well separated from ventral, its origin a little behind pectoral base, front rays free distally and simple, and fin highest near last third its length.
Caudal elongate, rounded.
Pectoral on left simple, upper median rays longest, its origin little below middle in body depth at that point.
Right pectoral shorter, lower median rays longest, fin otherwise similar.
Left ventral inserted a trifle behind right ventral, though former a little larger.
Vent close to anal origin, presented on lower side.
Color in alcohol pale sandy-gray on upper side, with scattered inconspicuous areas or patches of slightly darker mottlings.
Dorsal and anal pale grayish with dusky blotch basally about every five or six rays, intervening rays and membranes mottled with paler dusky.
Caudal grayish with indistinct transverse pale dusky lines.
Left pectoral similar.
Lower side whitish and transparent, darker variegations along dorsal, anal and caudal showing through distally.
Peritoneum white.
Length 1-j-f inches (47 mm.).
Type, No.
37,841, A. N. S. P. Corson's Inlet, Cape May County, N. J. September 17, 1910.
Dr. Richard J. Phillips.
Also Nos.
37,842 to 37,850, A. N. S. P., paratypes with same data.
These show : Head 3^ to 3f; depth 2^ to 2§; D. 62 to 67; A.
45 to 53 ; scales 37 to 43 in 1.
1. to caudal base; usually 11 scales above 1.
1. at depressed pectoral tip, frequently 10; usually 12 scales below 1.
1. at depressed pectoral tip, frequently 11; snout tip to lower eye front 4^to 5 in head measured from upper jaw tip; lower eye 3 to 3*; maxillary 3 to 3^; left pectoral 1^ to If ; length 1 J to If inches.
Two examples of Citharichthys arctifrons, kindly loaned by the United States National Museum through Mr. B.
A. Bean, differ at once in their larger scales, their longer maxillary and more inclined upper profiles, besides such extent of variation as is shown in the following note.
Head 4; depth 21 to 2J; D. 74 or 75; A.
61 or 66; scales in 1.
1. to caudal base 36 to 38 + 2?
to 4; about 8 scales (damaged) above 1.
1. at greatest depth of body; about 8 scales (damaged) below 1.
1. at greatest depth of body; snout 5 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3f ; maxillary 3; pectoral H; length 3£ to 3| inches.
These examples quite agree with Goode and Bean's figure, 1 and though in rather poor shape, all the important characters may be made out.
They were secured off Martha's Vineyard, Mass., by the schooner Grampus, July 10, 1892.
In pointing out the differences 1 Oceanic Ich., 1895, pi.
106, figs.
366a-&.
between the present species and C. arctifrons, it is only necessary to emphasize those above, though I also find it has much fewer gillrakers, or about 2+6, while C. arctifrons shows 4+9.
It seems, therefore, hardly likely my examples are the young of C. arctifrons.
or C. spilopterus, of which I have West Indian material, or C. unicornis.
These other species are readily distinguished; in the case of C. spilopterus, by its larger maxillary and smaller scales and in that of C. unicornis by the broad interorbital.
Found associated with C. micros were young Prionotus carolinus.
Brevoortia tyrannus, Trachinotus falcatus and Eucinostomus gula, all of which were collected.
Dr. Phillips noted on this occasion and the preceding day the greatest variety of species during the year.
They were: Mustelus mustelus, Eulamia milberti, Anguitta chrisypa, Anchovia mitchilli, Fundulus majalis, F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus, Tylosurus marinus, Syngnathus fuscus, Menidia menidia notata, Mugil cephalus, Pomatomus saltatrix, Centropristis striatus, Cynoscion regalis, Leiostomus xanthurus, Menticirrhus americanus, M. saxatilis, Scicenops ocellatus, Tautogolabrus adspersus, Tautoga onitis, Spheroides maculatus, Opsanus tau, Paralichthys dentatus and Pseudopleuronectes americanus.
An examination of the stomach contents of C. micros showed remains of small Crustacea.
I may also note here that Citharichthys spilopterus Gunther has been recorded from New Jersey by Jordan and Goss, a fact I had neglected to mention in my account of the fishes of that State.
(Hhxp6$ } small.)
NOTES ON CLUPEOID FISHES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The clupeoid Isospondyli contained in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, unless stated otherwise, are listed in the present paper.
As many of the localities are interesting records of distribution, all are given with the number of specimens examined.
Several apparently new species are also described.
ELOPID^E.
Tarpon atlanticus (Valenciennes).
Florida 3.
I examined 2 adults in the care of Mr. D. McCadden, not the property of the Academy, from Fort Meyer, Fla. Megalops cyprinoides (Broussonet).
Apia, Samoa 3.
Elops saurus Linnaeus.
Nantucket, Mass.
1 ; S. Carolina 1 ; W. Palm Beach, Fla. 1 ; E. coast U. S. 1; no data 1; Santo Domingo 1; Surinam 1; Jamaica ?
2; Rio Janeiro 1.
Elops hawaiensis Regan.
Honolulu, H. Is.
1.
Formerly I confused this with E. saurus.
ALBULLDiE.
Albula vulpes (Linnaeu^.
Santo Domingo 2; St. Martin's 2; Port Antonio, Jamaica 1.
Dixonina nemoptera Fowler.
(Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1910, p. 651, fig.
Santo Domingo.)
Type No.
1,597, A. N. S. P. HIODONTIDiE.
Hiodon alveoides (Rafinesque).
Beaver R. 1, Youghiogheny R. 2, Pa.; Battle Cr., upper Mo.
R. 2; Creek Country, Ind.
Ty.
2; St. Joseph, Mo.
1; Yellowstone R, 1; "N.
Am."
Bonaparte Coll.
S; L. Minnetonka (also skull of Amiatus calvus), Minn. 2.
Hiodon tergisus Le Sueur.
L. Erie 1 ; Erie, Pa. 1 ; Venice, 0.
1.
CHIROCENTRIDiE.
Cbirocentrus dorab (Forskal).
Padang, Sumatra 3, of which 1 is now in Stanford University.
NOTOPTERIDiE.
Notopterus chitala (Hamilton-Buchanan).
Dried skin without locality.
DUSSUMIERIIDJE.
Stolephorus delicatulus (Bennett).
Bacon, Philippine Is.
7.
Dussumieria elopsoides Bleeker.
Padang, Sumatra 2, of which 1 is now in Stanford University.
Jenkinsia stolifera (Jordan and Gilbert).
Hailer's Rock, Fla. Keys 17; Culebra, Porto Rico 4.
Etrumeus micropus (Schlegel).
Honolulu, Hawaiian Is.
6.
CLUPEID^].
Clupea harengus Linnaeus.
Eastport, Maine 1; Newport, R. I.
2; Corson's Inlet, N. J.
1; Sweden 1.
Clupea pallasii Valenciennes.
(Clupea mirabilis Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1854, pp.
138, 15-4.
San Francisco, Cal.
Spratelloidesbryoporus Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc, 1873, p. 25.
Sitka, Alaska.)
Nos.
1,319 and 1,320, A. N. S. P., cotypes of C. mirabilis Girard.
No.
1,211, A. N. S. P., type of S. bryoporus Cope, in bad preservation.
Clupanodon coeruleus (Girard).
(Meletta coerulea Girard, 1. c. San Francisco, Cal.)
Nos.
1,252 and 1,240 to 1,243, cotypes of M. coerulea Girard.
Clupanodon brunnichii (Schneider).
Adriatic Sea 6; Italy 6 (all in Bonaparte Coll.).
Clupanodon phalerica Risso.
(Clupea papalina Bonaparte, Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Eur., 1846, p. 271.
Adriatic.
No description).
Nos.
1,263 to 1,267, A. N. S. P., cotypes of the nominal C. papalina Bonaparte.
Clupanodon neopilohardus (Steindachner).
Melbourne, Australia 5.
Clupanodon pseudohispanicus (Poey).
Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1.
Pomolobus chrysochloris Rafinesque.
Wabash R., Indiana 2; Hayden Expedition 1.
Pomolobus mediocris (Mitchill).
Cape Cod, Mass.
1; Newport, R. I.
1; Barnegat Pier 1, Seaside Park 1, Corson's Inlet 1, N. J.; Potomac R. 3.
Pomolobus pseudoharengus 'Wilson).
Portland, Maine 1; Cape Cod 2, Wood's Hole, Mass.
1; Newport, R. I.
3; Jersey City 1, May's Landing 20, Cedar Swamp Creek 1, Delaware Bay 1, N. J.; Bristol 15, Holmesburg 5, Pa. Pomolobus aestivalis (Mitchill).
Wood's Hole, Mass.
1; Jersey City 1, Beesley's Point ?
1, Sea Isle City 5, N. J. Alosa sapidissima (Wilson).
Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
2; Noank, Conn. 1; Duck I.
21, Bordentown 1, Newbold's I.
35, Washington Park 1, N. J.; Dingman's Ferry 25, Bristol 7, Holmesburg 9, Falls of Schuylkill 1, Pa.; Ft. Delaware, Del.
8; Delaware R, ?
1 ; Potomac R. 13.
Alosa fallax (Lac^pede).
Italy 11, in Bonaparte Coll.
Sardinella granigera Valenciennes.
Beirut, Syria 1.
Sardinella atricauda (Giinther).
Tahiti 3.
Sardinella perforata (Cantor).
Bacon, Luzon I., Philippines 1.
Sardinella hypselosoma (Bleeker).
Padang, Sumatra 4, of which 1 is now in Stanford University.
Sardinella bumeralis (Valenciennes).
Newport, R. I.
2; Marquesas Keys 27, Hailer's Rock 1, West Palm Beach 2, Fla.; New Providence, Bahama Is.
6; Santo Domingo 7; Boqueron 2, Hucares 2, Porto Rico; Port Antonio, Jamaica 2; St. Martin's 43, Santa Cruz 20, W. I.; Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1.
Sardinella sardina (Poey).
Hailer's Rock, Fla. Keys 2.
Sardinella macrophthalma (Ranzani).
New Providence, Bahama Is.
6; Port Antonio, Jamaica 3; St. Martin's 3, Santa Crnz 3, W. I. Sardinella stolifera (Jordan and Gilbert).
Mazatlan, Mex.
47.
GUDUSIA subgen.
nov.
Type Clupanodon chapra Hamilton-Buchanan.
Differs from the other subgenera included in Sardinella by its small scales, which are about 80 to 120 in a lateral series.
(Gudusa, the native name.)
Sardinella chapra (Hamilton-Buchanan).
Ganges R., India 6.
Opisthonema oglinum (Le Sueur).
Beesley's Point 4, Sea Isle City 3, N. J.; N. America 5 (in Bonaparte Coll.
); Santo Domingo 3; Port Antonio, Jamaica 1; Hucares 1, San Juan 1, Porto Rico; Santa Cruz, W. I.
1; Rio Janeiro, Brazil 2.
Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe).
Waquoit 3, Nantucket 24, Wood's Hole 3, Mass.
; Seaside Park 1, Atlantic City 1, Great Egg Harbor Bay 5, Beesley's Point 2, Corson's Inlet 1, Washington Park 1, N. J.; Ft. Delaware, Del.
6; Chestertown 1, Big Bohemia Creek 2, Patapsco R. 3, Potomac R. 1, Md.
; Ft. Macon, N. C. 2; S. Carolina 3; N. America 1 (Bonaparte Coll.).
Brevoortia tyrannus patronus (Goode).
Mississippi Sound at New Orleans, La.
2; Grand Plains Bayou, Miss.
3.
Brevoortia tyrannus aurea (Agassiz).
One without data, probably from Brazil ?
Brevoortia tyrannus dorsalis (Valenciennes).
Gaboon R., W. Africa 2.
HERINGIA gen. nov.
Type Clupea amazonica Steindachner.
Body strongly compressed, with trenchant serrated abdomen formed by bony scutes.
Head small, well compressed.
Mouth small.
No teeth.
Mandible protruding.
Maxillary broad.
Cheek normal.
Gillrakers slender, numerous.
Branchiostegals about 5.
Scales large, narrowly imbricated, cycloid, edges entire.
No lateral line.
Dorsal moderate, inserted behind ventral base, and fin entirely before anal.
Anal rays few.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral low, not reaching ventral.
Ventral depressed less than half space to anal.
Coloration silvery.
208 [March, Small herrings resembling Pellonula Gunther, but differing in the absence of teeth.
Some species of Pellonula are also credited with having the dorsal inserted behind the ventral origin.
Possibly Pomolobus melanostomus Eigenmann is a member of this genus ?
(Named for Dr. Constantine J. Hering, who collected fishes in Surinam many years ago, for the Academy.)
Heringia amazonica (Steindachner).
Surinam 14 (Hering).
Ilisha narragansetae sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 3J; depth 3; D. iv, 13, i; A. iv, 41, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 5; scales about 44 in lateral series to caudal base (squamation damaged) + 5 (according to pockets) ; about 14 scales (squamation injured) between dorsal and anal origins; predorsal scales 20 (according to pockets); -oSSffHS* Fig.
1.
— Ilisha narragansetae Fowler.
Type.
head width 2fits length; head depth at occiput 1^; mandible 2^; length of dorsal base 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; pectoral about If-; snout 4-fin head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; maxillary lf^; interorbital 6J.
Body greatly compressed, thin, deepest at ventral origin, edges slightly trenchant, abdominal edge trenchant with 25+7 serrae, upper profile slightly convex and lower decidedly more so anteriorly, posteriorly lower straight.
Caudal peduncle compressed, length trifle less than its least depth.
Head compressed, sides not especially flattened, but approximated below, upper profile little inclined, slightly concave, and convex lower greatly inclined.
Snout surface convex, broad as long.
Eye large, rounded, trifle before center in head.
Apparently no adipose eyelid.
Maxillary greatly inclined, reaches beyond front pupil edge till about opposite first third in eye, its lower edge finely dentate and greatest expansion about half of eye.
Mouth rather small, superior.
Scarcely median emargination to upper jaw front.
Mandible well protruded, rami well elevated inside mouth.
A series of small premaxillary teeth, narrow, median largest and others graduated externally.
Small similar series on each side of symphysis of mandible.
A double series of minute teeth on each palatine longitudinally.
Tongue narrow, depressed, surface above roughened medianly, pointed tip free.
Nostrils small pores, together, about midway in snout.
Interorbital constricted, slightly elevated, depressed.
Preorbital width about half of eye, slipping over upper anterior portion of maxillary.
Postero-infraorbital about half of eye.
Preopercle ridge oblique, and hind edge slightly inclined forward.
Opercles and cheeks smooth, stria?
or lines inconspicuous or obsolete.
Gill-opening forward about opposite last fifth in snout.
Rakers 12 + 22, compressed, pointed, 2 in eye.
Filaments about f of rakers.
Pseudobranchise 2\ in eye, much larger than filaments.
Isthmus slender, swelling but slightly behind.
No depression on shouldergirdle.
Scales large, cycloid, each with as many as 6 vertical striae, edges entire, disposed in longitudinal series, and of about uniform size.
Dorsal and anal depressible within basal scaly sheaths composed of scales small in size.
Caudal base covered with small scales.
Free axillary scaly pointed pectoral flap § of fin.
An axillary ventral scale.
Dorsal inserted about midway between mandible tip and caudal base, graduated down from first branched ray which is longest (damaged), depressed fin 3^ to caudal base.
Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal or about midway between front eye edge and caudal base, first few branched rays little longest, others all short and fin low, base straight.
Caudal (damaged) forked, lobes apparently pointed and equal.
Pectoral falcate, rather broad, reaching far back as ventral tip.
Ventral small, inserted much nearer anal than pectoral origin.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol brownish on back and upper surface of head behind, sides and lower regions silvery-white.
Fins all pale brownish.
Iris brassy.
Length 5|inches (caudal damaged).
Type No.
15,314, A. N. S. P. A single example from Newport, R. I. Samuel Powell.
Only the above example is known to me, and it would appear undoubtedly to have been obtained at Newport as a waif of the Gulf 14 Stream, probably from some tropical region in America ?
It seems to be most closely related to Pellona bleekeriana Poey, 1 but according to the incomplete account of that species I am unable to consider them identical.
Still further, I am obliged to allow them as separable, for Poey's account in some respects seems to strikingly disagree.
Poey's fish was 100 mm.
long and had the eye 3+ in its head, while in my specimen, which is larger and consequently would be expected to have an equally small eye at least, it is 3 in its head.
The greatest body depth in the total length of my example could not possibly be over 3f (even when its damaged caudal is allowed), while Poey alleges 5§.
According to Poey, the thickest part of the body is f its greatest depth, while my example shows this clearly less than ^.
Poey says the maxillary reaches opposite the hind pupil edge, while in my example it does not even reach opposite the middle of the eye.
Poey gives the teeth as somewhat long and curved, with a canine above and 2 below each side.
My example shows no canines whatever.
Poey says no teeth on the tongue, though my example shows it as asperous medianly.
Poey gives the serratures as 25, while my example shows 32.
Poey's example is said to have very caducous scales, while in mine they are largely adherent.
Poey describes his fish as white, with a little pronounced silvery streak, which latter is not at all evident in my example.
Pristigaster flavipinnis Valenciennes 2 differs in having much smaller scales, about 65.
Pellona castelnceana Valenciennes, 3 which has been considered a synonym of the last, is too imperfectly described for positive identification.
The occurrence of this fish, as far north as Rhode Island, is the most northern point at which any species of Ilisha has yet been found.
(Named for the country of the Narraganset Indians, now largely Rhode Island, where the type was secured.)
Ilisha hoeveni (Bleeker).
Padang, Sumatra 3, of which 1 now in Stanford University.
Ilisha hrachysoma (Bleeker).
Padang, Sumatra 1.
Opisthopterus macrognathus (Bleeker).
Padang, Sumatra 1.
Odontognathus mucronatus Lacepfede.
Surinam 2.
1 Repert.
Fis.
Nat.
Cuba, II, 1866-68, p. 242.
Matanzas.
2 Voy.
Am.
Mir.
Orbig.
Poiss., 1847, p. 8, PI.
10, fig.
2.
Buenos Aires.
3 Hist.
Nat.
Poiss., XX, 1847. p. 222.
Mouth of the Amazon.
DOROSOMATID^.
Dorosoma cepedianum (Le Sueur).
{Chatoessus insociabilis Abbott, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1860, p. 365.
Trenton, X.
J.)
Nos.
23,030 and 23,031, A. N. S. P., cotypes of C. insociabilis Abbott.
Torresdale, Pa. 1 ; Potomac R. 1 ; Bayport, Fla. 3; Ohio ?
2; Wabash R., Indiana 1; Ft. Riley, Kansas 18; Davenport, Iowa 6; St. Joseph, Mo.
11.
Dorosoma cepedianum exile Jordan and Gilbert.
San Diego, Tex.
1.
Dorosoma petenensis (Giinther).
Panama 1 (J.
A. McNiel).
Signalosa mexicana (Giinther).
Volusia, Fla. 1.
ENGRATJLIDID^].
Anchovia clupeoides (Swainson).
Santo Domingo 1 ; Rio Seco, Porto Rico 1.
These both agree with Swainson's account, though likely Stolephorus surinamensis Bleeker may be different.
Engraulis product us Poey is evidently a synonym of the present species.
ANCHOVIELLA subgen.
nov.
Type Engraulis perfasciatus Poey.
This differs from the subgenus Anchovia Jordan and Evermann in the fewer gill-rakers, usually much less than 100 or about 35 to 50.
Prof. E. C. Starks has kindly examined the gill-rakers of Anchovia macrolepidota (Kner and Steindachner), the typical species of Anchovia, and finds them about 106 + 135.
Anchoviella includes the majority of species of Anchovia.
(Anchoviella, diminutive of Anchovia, as most of the species are of small size.)
Anchovia perfasciata (Poey).
Port Antonio, Jamaica 5; Aguadilla, Porto Rico 3.
Anchovia scitula sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 4|; depth 6J; D. in, 13; A. in, 16, i; P. i, 13; V. I, 6; scales about 40 in lateral series (counted by pockets) + 2 more on caudal base; about 9 scales (pockets) between dorsal origin and middle of belly; about 22 predorsal scales; head width 24; its length; head depth at occiput If; dorsal base If; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; anal base 14; pectoral (damaged) 2; ventral (damaged) 2*; snout 4; eye 3+; maxillary H; interorbital 4.
Body«elongate, slender, well compressed, profiles similar, apparently deepest at dorsal origin, edges rounded?
Caudal peduncle compressed, its least depth about 3 in its length.
Head well compressed, profiles similar and slightly convex, flattened sides a little approximated below so that lower surface much narrower than upper and not keeled medianly.
Snout conic, profiles convex, protruding, length about equals its basal width.
Eye rather large, rounded, a little elevated, at first § in head.
Adipose eyelid thin, covers eye entirely.
Mouth large, front above with scarcely median depression.
Maxillary straight, slightly expanded distally about 3| in eye, reaches hind preopercle edge, though not quite to articulation of mandible.
Maxillary teeth uniseiial, close-set, anterior slightly Fig.
2.
— Anchovia scitula Fowler.
Type.
bent back and posterior slightly inclined forward, throughout greater median extent of about uniform size, though anteriorly and posteriorly graduated down a little smaller, not continuous over front of upper jaw, and extending to hind end of bone.
Similar more minute erect mandibular teeth, not connected across symplrysis.
Apparently no palatine or vomerine teeth, and pterygoids hardly roughened.
Tongue smooth small knob, attached in front of mandible, from behind its upper surface and length of basibranchial shaft above a narrow area of minute asperities.
Mandible convex over surface, constricted to point at symphysis, rami not elevated or only sloping gradually toward articulation behind.
Mandible tip extends forward about opposite anterior nostril.
Nostrils small, together, a trifle nearer eye than snout tip.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Each supraoccipital ridge distinct, flaring out a little over each eye anteriorly.
Cheek would nearly form an equilateral triangle.
Cheek and opercle smooth.
Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge.
Rakers 19 + 26, slender, pointed, compressed, inner edges minutely denticulated, 1^in eye.
Filaments 2 in eye.
Pseudobranchise 2h in eye.
Isthmus long, slender, narrowly compressed, and lower edge level, not trenchant.
Branchiostegals 13, membranes united anteriorly only very short distance, forming narrow free fold over isthmus.
Scales caducous, or most all having fallen, according to pockets apparently narrowly imbricated, disposed in even longitudinal series, more or less uniform in size.
Caudal base scaly, scales becoming small on bases of lobes, and inner bases of lobes each with an area of crowded elongated or horizontal scales.
Dorsal and anal basal scaly sheaths?
Long pointed distally free axillary pectoral scaly flap at least | length of fin.
Axillary ventral scary flap ?
Dorsal origin midway between hind pupil edge and caudal base, graduated down from first branched ray (damaged) which apparently longest.
Anal inserted about opposite middle of dorsal base or a little nearer pectoral origin than caudal base, anterior branched rays longest and others graduated down.
Caudal forked, lobes (damaged) pointed and apparently equal.
Pectoral small, low, and apparently (damaged) 1^ to ventral.
Latter inserted a little nearer anal origin than pectoral, and apparently (damaged) not quite half-way to anaL Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish on trunk, scarcely paler below.
Head a little pale brownish above, sides and below silvery-white.
Iris similar.
A leaden-white band along side, from shoulder to caudal base, rather indistinct along costal region, above anal its width about H in eye and along side of caudal peduncle becoming still narrower.
Fins all pale or dull brownishwhite.
Length 4 inches (caudal tips damaged).
Type No.
1,576, A. N. S. P. San Diego, Cal.
W. N. Lockington.
Only the above-described example known to me, and received many years ago.
It appears to be related to Anchovia exigua (Jordan and Gilbert), but differs in a number of characters, such as the shorter maxillary, complete mandibular dentition, longer gill-rakers, slightly more posterior insertion of dorsal, more slender body and more pronounced silvery lateral band.
Anchovia miarcha (Jordan and Gilbert), based on young examples, differs from Anchovia scitula in its fewer anal rays being 12 to 14, dorsal origin midway between snout and caudal, and no distinct lateral silvered band.
It would hardly appear likely they are the young of the latter.
Anchovia starksi (Gilbert and i ierson) differs in its more anterior dorsal origin, more posterior anal origin and longer maxillary.
(Scitulus, slender.)
214 [March, Anchovia perthecata (Goode and Bean).
One example without locality.
Anchovia purpurea (Fowler).
(Stolephorus purpureas Fowler, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Scl.
Phila., 1900, p.1497, PI.
19, fig.
1.
Hawaiian Islands.)
Nos.
23,329 and 23,330, cotypes of Stolephorus purpureas Fowler.
Also 16 examples from Hawaiian Islands.
Anchovia lepidentostole sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 4J; depth 4; D. in, 12, i; A. in, 22, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 5; scales 35 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter ; 9 scales obliquely forward from dorsal origin to that of ventral; predorsal scales 18; head width If its length; head depth at occiput 1+j dorsal base H; least depth caudal peduncle 2£; pectoral If; ventral 3; snout 5; eye 3^; maxillary 1\; mandible 1-f-; interorbital 3j.
Fig.
3.
— Anchovia lepidentostole Fowler.
Type.
Body elongate, rather plump, compressed, fusiform or profiles rather evenly and similarly convex, greatest depth at dorsal origin, a slight dorsal and abdominal median keel and other edges convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 1^ its length.
Head compressed, profiles slightly convex or similarly inclined, sides flattened and constricted well below so that lower surface formed much narrower than upper.
Snout convex over surface and in profile, well protruded, length f its basal width.
Eye large, rounded, a little elevated, first third its length.
Adipose eyelid covers eye, well developed.
Mouth large, front above with scarcely median depression.
Maxillary slightly curved, a little expanded distally till about 3^ in eye, and not quite reaching preopercle ridge or mandibular articulation.
Maxillary teeth fine, sharp-pointed, close-set, uniserial, all directed slightly forward, graduated down from front to end of bone, not continuous over front of upper jaw, and extending to hind end of bone.
Similar more erect and uniform mandibular teeth, not connected over symphysis.
Apparently no vomerine, palatine or pterygoid teeth.
Tongue small rounded smooth knob in mandible anteriorly.
Upper surface of basibranchial shaft finely asperous.
Mandible convex over surface, constricted to point at symphysis, rami not elevated inside mouth, sloping gradually toward articulation behind.
Mandible included within upper jaw, so that snout protruded a little, and its tip extends little beyond anterior nostril.
Nostrils small, together, a little nearer eye front than snout tip.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Each supraorbital ridge distinct, flaring slightly over each eye anteriorly.
Cheek would form an equilateral triangle.
Cheek and opercle smooth, except for a number of transverse mucous arborescent channels or tubes.
Gill-opening forward to front eye edge.
Rakers about IS + 25, slender, pointed, compressed, inner edges minutely denticulated, 1^ in eye.
Filaments If in eye.
Pseudobranchia 1 3 in eye.
Isthmus long, slender, narrowly compressed, lower edge level and not trenchant.
Branchiostegals about 10, membranes apparently scarcely united anteriorly.
Scales largely adherent, narrowly imbricated, disposed in even longitudinal series, more or less uniform in size.
Each scale with 2 to 4 vertical stria?, and about 3 anterior horizontal.
Caudal base scaly, scales becoming small on bases of lobes, and inner bases of lobes each with an area of crowded elongated or horizontal scales.
Dorsal and anal with basal scaly sheaths.
Long pointed distally free axillary pectoral scaly flap but trifle less than fin in length.
Similar axillary ventral scaly flap.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, anterior rays elongate and graduated down from first branched.
Anal origin about opposite first third in dorsal length, anterior rays elongate and graduated down from first branched rays, fin low posteriorly.
Caudal emarginate (damaged), and lobes apparently pointed and equal.
Pectoral f to ventral.
Ventral origin nearer that of anal than of pectoral, fin about half-way to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol generally pale brownish, everywhere with traces of silvery sheen.
Head largely silvery on sides and below.
A broad silvery lateral band, about equals vertical eye-diameter, becomes a little constricted at shoulder and along caudal peduncle side.
This well defined.
Iris silvered white.
Fins all pale brownishwhite.
Length (caudal tips a little damaged) 4 inches.
Type No.
1,346, A. N. S. P. Surinam.
Dr. Constantine J. Hering.
Also No.
1,347, A. N. 8.
P., paratype, same data.
Head 3|; depth 4; D. hi, 12; A. in, 21, i; scales 38 (largely according to pockets) + 3; 9 scales (pockets) between dorsal and anal origins; predorsal scales (pockets) 18; snout 4^ in head; eye 3J; maxillary 1|; interorbital 3J; length 3 inches.
This species appears related to Anchovia brevirostris (Giinther) from Bahia, but seems to differ in the more numerous anal radii, that species having but 18.
Anchovia januarius (Steindachner) is also a closely related species, but it differs as the origin of the dorsal is said to lie about an eye-diameter nearer the caudal base than the snout tip.
In both of my examples it is about midway between the snout tip and the caudal base, and there is no trace of a dark gray crossstreak on latter.
(Ae-{$ j scale; Zvt6s } within; fTroXyj ) stole; with reference to the median lateral row of scales in the silvery lateral band.)
Anohovia brownii (Gmelin).
Ocean City 57, Corson's Inlet 5, N. J. ; Ft. Macon, N. C. 1 ; Hailer's Rock 28, Marquesas Keys 25, Tortugas 2, Fla.; Santo Domingo 1; Mayaguez, Porto Rico 1; Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1.
Anchovia platyargyrea sp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 3i; depth 4f; D. in, 12; A. in, 19, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 6; scales about 35 (according to pockets) in lateral series to caudal base + 3 on latter ; about 7 scales (pockets) between dorsal and ventral origins ; about 15 predorsal scales (pockets); head width 2f its length; head depth If; snout 4f ; eye 3f ; maxillary 1£; interorbital 4; dorsal length If; least depth caudal peduncle 3+ ; caudal length If; anal base If; pectoral length 2; ventral 3; mandible If.
Body well compressed, moderately long, profiles similarly and rather evenly convex, edges all rounded and predorsal scarcely trenchant, greatest depth about dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, its least depth about H its length.
Head well compressed, profiles similarly inclined, though upper little more convex, flattened sides a little approximated below so that lower surface much narrower than upper and not keeled medianly.
Snout conic, well protruding, basal width about equals its length.
Eye rounded, rather high, a little before first third in head.
Adipose eyelid well developed, covering eye entirely.
Mouth large, front above with slight median depression.
Maxillary straight, distally attenuated beyond mandibular articulation though not quite to gill-opening, its distal width 3^ in eye.
Maxillary teeth uniserial, close-set, fine, only most anterior slightly bent back and greater extent posteriorly slightly bend forward, though still more anteriorly and posteriorly graduated down a little smaller, not continuous over front of upper jaw, and extending to distal end of bone.
Similar more erect mandibular teeth, not connected across symphysis, more minute.
A small asperous process each side of vomer, asperities very minute.
Similar palatine and pterygoid asperities.
Tongue smooth small knob, attached in front of mandible, from behind its upper surface and length of basibranchial shaft above minutely asperous in narrow area.
Mandible convex over surface, constricted to point at symphysis, rami not elevated inside mouth or only gradually sloping to articulation behind.
Mandible tip extends forward about midway in postnasal.
Nostrils small, together, about last * in snout.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Each supraorbital ridge distinct, flaring out a little over each eye anteriorly.
Cheek would form an isosceles triangle, its base being nearly half its height.
Cheek and opercle smooth.
Fig 4.
— Anchovia pkttyargyrea Fowler.
Type.
Gill-opening forward till about opposite middle of eye.
Rakers about 15 + 20, slender, pointed, compressed, inner edges minutely denticulated, 1^ in eye.
Filaments 1^ in eye.
Pseudobranchiae 2 in eye.
Isthmus long, slender, compressed, lower edge convex.
Branchiostegals 12, membranes united anteriorly only very short distance, forming narrow free fold over isthmus.
Scales caducous, mostly fallen, narrowly imbricated, disposed in even longitudinal series, each with about 5 vertical striae, and all of more or less uniform size.
Dorsal and anal depressible within basal scaly sheaths somewhat.
Caudal base scaly, inner edges of lobes each with an area of small crowded elongated or horizontal scales, and lobes basally with fine scales.
Long pointed distally free axillary pectoral scaly flap f length of fin.
Similar axillary ventral scaly flap but littleless than fin.
Dorsal origin midway between front pupil edge and caudal base, graduated down from first branched ray which is longest, and tips of anterior depressed rays extending but little behind last rays.
Anal origin about opposite base of eleventh branched dorsal ray or a little nearer caudal base than pectoral origin, graduated down from first branched or longest ray.
Caudal well forked, pointed lobes about equal.
Pectoral about | to ventral.
Ventral inserted a trifle nearer pectoral origin than anal origin, and barely reaching half-way to latter.
Vent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, becoming paler about region of peritoneum.
Head brownish above, sides and below, also iris, .silverwhite.
A broad well-defined lateral silvery band, expanding to greatest width over anal where it equals 1| eye-diameters.
Fins all pale brownish, dorsal and caudal minutely dotted with dusky.
Length 3 inches.
Type No.
1,416, A. N. 8.
P. St. Martin's, West Indies.
Dr. R, E. Van Rijgersma.
Also Nos.
1,417 to 1,503, A. N. 8.
P., paratypes, same data.
Ten of these examples, besides 9 from Fojardo, Porto Rico, identified by Evermann and Marsh 4 as Anchovia chcerostoma (Goode), show: Head 3i; to 3^; depth 4^ to 5f ; D. usually in, 12, i, frequently in, 11, i; A. usually in, IS, i, often in, 17, i or in, 19, i, rarely in, 16, i or in, 20, i; scales in lateral series usually about 33 or 34, often 32 or 35, seldom 30, 31, 36 or 37 + 2 or 3; usually about 9 scales transversely between dorsal origin and ventral origin; usually 17 predorsal scales, frequently 16, often 15 or 18, seldom 14; snout 4 to 4f in head; eye 3| to 4^; maxillary but little less than head; interorbital 3^ to 4£; length If to 2f inches.
From Anchovia choerostoma (Goode) it differs in the maxillary not reaching the gill-opening, dorsal origin before depressed ventral tips, pectoral not reaching ventral and lateral silvery band wider than eye.
Anchovia argentivittata (Regan) has fewer anal rays.
Anchovia astilbe (Jordan and Rutter) is without a silvery lateral band.
Anchovia cubana (Poey) has a longer maxillary.
(77Aar6?, broad; apyupos, silver; with reference to the broad silvery lateral band.)
Anchovia commersonnii (Lacepede).
Padang, Sumatra 5, of which 2 are now in Stanford University.
4 Hull.
U. S. F.
Com., 1900, p. 88.
Anchovia delicatissima (Girard).
San Diego, Cal.
15.
Anchovia eurystole (Swain and Meek).
Dr. R. J. Phillips secured a single example at Corson's Inlet, N. J., on October 24, 1909, which is now in the collection.
This is the first specimen I have examined.
Anchovia cayorum (Fowler).
(Anchovia chorrostoma cayorum Fowler, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila., 1906, p. 85, fig.
4.
Hailer's Rock, Fla.
Keys.)
No.
30,613, A. N. S. P., type of A. chcerostoma cayorum Fowler.
Also 17 others with same data.
Anchovia mitchilli (Valenciennes).
Wood's Hole, Mass.
2; Seaside Park 3, Beesley's Point 3, Corson's Inlet 12, N. J.; Fort Delaware, Del.
32; Tolchester Beach, Md.
1.
Goode's figure of Engraulis viltatus, 5 which has been allowed to represent this species, differs at once in having 13 scales transversely.
Anchovia compressa (Girard).
San Diego, Cal.
1.
Anchovia tapirula (Cope).
(Engraulis tapirulus Cope, Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc , XVIII, 1877, p. 45.
Probably Pecasmayo Bay, Peru.)
No.
21,851, A. N. S. P., type of E. tapirulus Cope.
Anchovia duodecim (Cope).
(Engraulis duodecim Cope, Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
(2) XIII, 1869, p. 405.
Beesley's Point, N.
J.)
No.
1,363, A. N. S. P., type of E. duodecim Cope.
Anchovia encrasicholoides (Bleeker).
Padang, Sumatra 4.
Anchovia nasus (Kner and Steindachner).
Probably Pecasmayo Bay, Peru 1.
Engraulis encrasicolus (Linnaeus).
Italy 5 (in Bonaparte Coll.)
; no data 1 (Cope).
Engraulis mordax Girard.
Santa Barbara 4, Point Lobos 1, Point Reyes 1, San Diego 1, Cal.
; no data 5, probably Cal.
?
Engraulis ringens Jenyns.
Probably Pecasmayo Bay, Peru 1 5 Nat.
Hist.
Aquat.
An.
U. S. Com.
Fish and Fisheries, 1884, PI.
218.
Noank, Conn. Cetengraulis edentulus (Cuvier).
Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1.
Cetengraulis engymen (Gilbert and Pierson).
Panama (J.
A. McNiel) 15.
Thryssa valenciennesi (Bleeker).
Padang, Sumatra 2, of which 1 now in Stanford Univeisity.
Pterengraulis atherinoides (Linnaeus).
Surinam 1.
Telara telara (Hamilton-Buchanan).
Ganges R., India 1.
Lycengraulis grossidens (Agassiz).
Surinam 1.
GONORHYNCHIDJE.
Gonorhynchus gonorhynchus (Linnaeus).
Melbourne, Australia 4.
OSTEOGLOSSIDiE.
Osteoglossum bicirrhosum Agassiz.
Manacapuru, Brazil ] ; between Rio Negro mouth and Peru 1 ; Peruvian Amazon 1 ; Ambyiacu R. 2.
Scleropages guntheri (Castelnau).
Thirteen examples from "New Zealand" received from Dr. J. Haast.
These examples differ from the account and figure of Scleropages leichardti Giinther, 6 chiefly in the shorter maxillary, longer eye and longer pectoral, all points in harmony with Osteoglossum guntheri Castelnau, 7 a species which is not noticed by Saville-Kent.
The latter apparently wrongly identifies Scleropages leichardti, as a glance at his distinctions for that species as compared with his Osteoglossum jardinii, 8 will show.
Thus it appears Osteoglossum leichardti Saville-Kent is not of Giinther, but really identical with Scleropages guntheri (Castelnau), and Osteoglossum jardinii Saville-Kent is identical with Scleropages leichardti Giinther.
It may be doubtful that my examples were indigenous to New Zealand, though they were all labeled with that locality.
Their identity with Castelnau' s species e Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (3) XIV, 1864, p. 196, PI.
7.
Burdekin River, Queensland.
1 Journ.
de Zool.
Gervais, V, 1876, p. 131.
Northeast Australia.
8 Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Queensland, VIII, pt.
2, 1890-91, p. 105.
Northern Queensland.
is in every way established.
They show the following variations in some of the principal characters.
Head 3| to 4f ; depth 3| to If-; D. usually 18, often 17, rarely 16 or 19; A. usually 29, often 28, seldom 27; scales in 1.
1. usually 32, seldom 30, 31, 33 or 34 + usually 4, often 3; usually 4 scales above 1.
1., sometimes 5; usually 5 scales below 1.
1., frequently 4, rarely 6; predorsal scales usually 23 or 24, sometimes 21, 25 or 26; snout 4% to 5 in head, measured from snout tip to hind bony opercle edge; eye 5i to Q^; maxillary Ifto If; interorbital 3| to 3|; length 11^ to 234 inches.
ON SOME COLLECTIONS OF EEPTILES AND BATRACHIANS FROM THE WESTERN UNITED STATES.
BY WITMER STONE.
Members of the Academy museum staff have taken part in several expeditions to various parts of the western United States during the last few years, more especially for the collecting of insects and mollusks, but in nearly every instance a certain number of reptiles and batrachians were procured.
While no serious efforts were made to obtain complete collections at any one point, nevertheless a number of interesting specimens were taken, including one species of snake, Elaphe chlorosoma, new to our fauna.
The exact localities accompanying the specimens will be of value in tracing the distribution of the various species, and the writer, w r ho has had the privilege of studying the several collections, presents the following list mainly with that object in view.
The several collections are as follows: Fifty-five specimens obtained by Dr. Henry Skinner in Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, in August, 1905.
Thirty-six specimens obtained by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry and Mr. J. H. Ferriss, of Joliet, 111., who accompanied him, in various parts of Arizona, September to November, 1907, and sixty-five obtained in Arizona and New Mexico, August to October, 1910.
Three collections presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard, who, accompanied by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn, of the Academy staff, made trips to the West in 1907, 1909 and 1910.
The 1907 collection comprised thirty-seven specimens from Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.
The 1909 collection, fifty-nine specimens from Nebraska, Montana, Wyoming, Oregon, California, Nevada, Utah and Colorado.
The 1910 collection, eighty-one specimens from Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, California, Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada.
The number given opposite each specimen is that of the Academy's Herpetological Catalogue, and is attached to each individual.
The writer begs to acknowledge his indebtedness to Dr. L. Stejneger, of the United States National Museum, who kindly examined several specimens of which the identity was in doubt.
BATRACHIA.
Ambystoma maorodactylum.
Baird.
Long-toed Salamander.
18,032.
La Grande, Union County, Ore. August 15, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
This was the only salamander obtained by any of the parties.
Scaphiopus couchii Baird.
Couch's Spadefoot.
17,475-6.
Roeble's Ranch, near Coyote Springs, between Tucson and the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
July 24, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,891-3.
Mesa east of Big Hatchet Mountains.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Scaphiopus hammondi Baird.
Western Spadefos^.
17,491-4.
Alamogordo, Otero County, N. Mex.
July 13, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Bufo boreas Baird and Girard.
Northwestern Toad.
17,841-3.
Siskiyou, Siskiyou Mountains, Jackson County, Ore., 4,100 feet.
August 13, 1999.
Hebard and Rehn.
Bufo cognatus Say.
Gr.at Plains Toad.
17,477.
Roeble's Ranch, between Tucson and the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
July 24, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,905.
Tucson, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Bufo alvarius 'drard.
Desert Toad.
17,890.
Maricopa, Pinal County, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
This specimen came hopping in at the door of a restaurant.
Messrs. Hebard and Rehn saw several in a rain-water barrel at Sentinel, Ariz., in October, 1910.
Bufo punctatus Baird and Girard.
Spotted Toad.
17,913-6.
Agua Caliente Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 5,000 feet.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,949-51.
Otero (?)
Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,532.
North side Grand Canon, Mystic Spring Trail, Coconimo County, Ariz., 1907.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Bufo lentiginosus americanus Le Conte.
American Toad.
17,834.
North Platte, near Casper, Natrona County, Wyo.
July 17, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,030-1.
Sidney, Cheyenne County, Neb.
July 30, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Bufo lentiginosus woodhousei Girard.
Rocky Mountain Toad.
17,879-80.
Caliente, Lincoln County, Nev. September 3, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
Hyla arenicolor Cope.
Sand-colored Tree Toad.
17,533-64.
North side of Grand Canon, Mystic Spring Trail, Coconimo County, Ariz. October, 1907.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,920.
East of saddle of "Old Baldy," Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 7,500 feet.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Chorophilus triseriatus Wied.
Swamp Tree Frog.
17,876-8.
Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nev. September 2, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,034.
Nampa, Canon County, Idaho.
August 9, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Rana pipiens brachycephala Cope.
Mountain Leopard Frog.
18,011-14.
Mountain Home, Elmore County, Idaho.
August 9, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Rana pipiens Shreber.
Leopard Frog.
17,899.
Agua Caliente Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,904.
Santa Cruz River, Tucson, Ariz. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,933.
Santa Cruz River, Tucson, Ariz, Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,907.
Tucson, Ariz. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Rana fisheri Stejne^er.
Fisher's Frog.
17,873-5.
Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nev. September 2, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
These specimens are from the type locality and seem in every way like the originals.
They were not observed elsewhere.
REPTILIA.
Dipsosaurus dorsalis (Baird and Girard).
Crested Lizard.
Three specimens collected by Messrs. Hebard and Rehn as follows: 17,857-8.
Lyons, San Bernardino, Cal.
September 1, 1909.
18,027.
Yuma, Ariz. October 1, 1910.
Crotophytus collaris baileyi Stejneger.
Bailey's Lizard.
Three specimens obtained by Messrs. Hebard and Rehn.
17,512.
Mesa south of Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 9, 1907.
18,033.
Mesa at El Paso, Tex., 2,800 feet.
August 9, 1910.
18,006.
Mason, Lyon County, Nev., 4,500 feet, September 5, 1910.
Crotophytus wislizeni Baird and Girard.
Leopard Lizard.
Eight specimens collected by Messrs. Hebard and Rehn.
17,511.
Desert east of Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
17,864.
Lyons, San Bernardino County, Cal.
September 1, 1909.
17,954.
Snyder's Hill, Pima County, Ariz. October 11, 1910.
18,004-5.
Mason, Lyon County, New, 4,500 feet.
September 5, 1910.
18,015-17.
Mountain Home, Elmore County, Idaho.
August 9, 1910.
Callisaurus ventralis (Hallowell).
Zebra-tailed Lizard.
17,472-4.
Roeble's Ranch, Pima County, Ariz. July 24, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,482.
Yuma, Ariz. July 27, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,859-63.
Lyons, San Bernardino County, Cal.
November 5, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
1 7,986.
Palm Springs, Riverside County, Cal.
September 29, 1 910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,987-8.
Warren, Kern County, Cal., 3,500 feet.
September 17, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,994-6.
Slope east of Mina, Esmerelda County, New, 4,800 feet, September 3, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
lS,000-3.
Mason, Lyon County, New, 4,500 feet, September 5, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Holbrookia maculata maculata Girard.
Spotted Lizard.
1 7,832-3.
Sandhills, Halsey, Thomas County, Neb.
July 1 1 , 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,884 and 17,886.
Sterling, Logan County, Colo. July 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,966.
Sand Hills of North Platte.
July 28.
Hebard and Rehn.
Holbrookia maculata approximans Baird.
Allied Spotted Lizard.
16,490-1.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,479.
Sonora Road Canon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Ariz. July 25, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,925 and 17,927.
Gija River, Pima County, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,928-30.
Mesa, near the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,999.
Sycamore Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
August 6, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Holbrookia maculata flavilenta Cope.
Cope's Spotted Lizard.
16,492.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,500.
East of Alamogordo, N. Mex.
(Greasewood belt).
July 13, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
15 Holbrookia texana Troschel.
Texan Zebra-tailed Lizard.
17,495.
Greasewood Belt east of Alamogordo, N. Mex.
July 13, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,515-17.
Mesa east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,908.
Mineral Hill, 19 miles south of Tucson, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Uta stansburyana Baird and Girard.
Stansbury's Swift.
17,497-9.
Greasewood belt east of Alamogordo, N. Mex.
July 13, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,510.
Mesa east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,855.
Roscoe, Los Angeles County, Cal.
August 23, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,868-72.
Las Vegas, Nev. September 2, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,970-2.
San Jacinto Mountains, Riverside County, Cal.
September 30, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,973-7.
Beaumont, Riverside County, Cal.
September 28, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,979-80.
Mt.
Lowe, Los Angeles County, Cal.
September 25, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,989-91.
Warren, Kern County, Cal.
September 17, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,009-10.
Mason, Lyon County, Nev., 4,500 feet.
September 5, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,023-26.
Sentinel, Maricopa County, Ariz. October 2, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,028.
Yuma, Ariz. October 1, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,956.
Mohave, Kern County, Cal.
September 15, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Uta symmetrica Baird.
White-bellied Swift.
17,484-5.
Yuma, Ariz. July 28, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,941-2: Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Uta ornata Baird and Girard.
1 Ornate Swift.
16,506-9.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
1 Dr. Stejneger writes me that his record of U. symmetrica from the Huachuca Mountains (Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol.
25, p. 150) was a lapsus for U. ornata.
17.488.
Luna County, N.
Mex., north side of Florida Mountains.
July 19, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,496.
Greasewood belt, east of Alamogordo, M. Mex.
July 13, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Sceloporus olarkii Baird and Girard.
Clark's Swift.
16,534-40.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
16,524.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,952.
Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Dr. Skinner states that they were found among rocks along the stream, and sought refuge under them when pursued.
Sceloporus magister Hallowell.
IlalloweH's Swift.
17,471.
Roeble's Ranch, near Coyote Springs, Pima County, Ariz. July 24, 1907.
17,483.
Yuma, Ariz. July 28, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Sceloporus jarrovii Cope.
Yarrow's Swift.
16,510-13.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
16,515-23.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
16,525-27.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
16.489.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,529.
Cave Creek Canon, Chiracahua Mountains, Cochise County, Ariz. 1907.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,898, 17,900 and 17,912.
Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
19,923-4.
Cochise Stronghold, Dragoon Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Found among rocks, according to Dr. Skinner: entering miners' cabins and everywhere the most common species in the regions visited by Dr. Pilsbry.
Soeloporus consobrinus Baird and Girard.
Yellow-banded Swift.
17,506-7.
Three miles southeast of El Paso, Tex., on the Rio Grande.
July 10, 1907.
17,829-31.
Sandhills, Halsey, Thomas County, Neb.
July 11, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,885.
Sterling, Logan County, Colo. July 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
Soeloporus biseriatus Hallowell.
Western Swift.
17,965.
Reno, Nev., 4,500 feet.
September 1, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,976 and 17,978.
Beaumont, Riverside County, Cal.
September 28, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,981.
Mt.
Lowe, Los Angeles County, Cal.
September 25, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,993.
Tahachapi, Kern County, Cal.
September 16, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,007.
Mason, Lyon County, Nev. September 5, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Sceloporus graciosus Baird and Girard.
Sage-brush Swift.
17,835.
Billings, Yellowstone County, Mont.
July 28, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,838.
Siskiyou, Jackson County, Ore. August 13, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,845-6.
Sugar Loaf, near Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal.
August 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,882.
Milford, Beaver County, Utah.
September 5, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,887.
Iron Mountain, Garfield County, Colo., 6,500 feet.
September 9, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,959-61.
Pemberton, Umatilla County, Ore., 1,100 feet.
August 16, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,964.
Table Mountain, Green River, Wy., 7,500 feet.
August 3, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,981.
Mt.
Lowe, Los Angeles County, Cal.
September 23, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Sceloporus occidentalism Harlan.
Pacific Swift.
17,839-40.
Siskiyou, Jackson County, Ore., 5,000 feet.
August 13, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,853.
Mt.
Tamalpais, Marin County, Cal., 1,100 feet.
August IS, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
2 1 take opportunity to state that the specimen of Sceloporus couchi, reported by me from Devil's River, Texas (Proc.
A .
N. S., 1903, p. 540), proves to be the subsequently described S. merriami Stejneger.
I was misled by Baird's statement of the number of femoral pores, which Stejneger finds to be erroneous upon a careful examination of the type.
Phrynosoma douglassii brevirostre Girard.
Short-nosed Horned-toad.
17,566-7.
Springfield, Bingham County, Idaho.
August, 1906.
Dr. Skinner.
17,958.
Green River, Sweetwater County, Wyo.
August 3, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Phrynosoma hernandezi Girard.
Hernandez's Horned-toad.
16,495-8.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,486.
Silver City, Grant County, N. Mex.
July 21, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,489-90.
Cloudcroft, Otero County, N. Mex.
July 15, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,029.
Sidney, Cheyenne County, Neb.
July 30, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Phrynosoma hernandezi ornatissimum Bell.
Ornamented Horned-toad.
17,931.
Bisbee, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Phrynosoma regale Girard.
Regal Horned-t >ad.
17,528.
Greasewood Plain, Northeast of Tucson, Ariz. July 26, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,918-19.
Las Gijas, Pima County, Ariz. September 28, 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,948.
Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Ariz. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,957.
Tucson, Ariz. October 12, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,906.
Mineral Hill, 19 miles south of Tucson.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Phrynosoma frontale Van Denlmryh.
California Horned-toad.
17,962.
Del Monte, Monterey County, Cal.
September 9, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Phrynosoma oornutum Harlan.
Texas Horned-toad.
17,508.
Three^ miles southeast of El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Phrynosoma modestum Girard.
Little Horned-toad.
17,513.
Mesa east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 9, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,589.
Guzman, Chihuahua, Mex.
August 6, 1906.
Dr. P. P. Calvert.
17,911.
El Paso Co., Ariz. August 18, 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,935-7.
Sheridan Canon, Hachita Mountains, N. Mex.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Gerrhonotus principis Baird and Girard.
Keeled Lizard.
17,836-7.
Glendale, Douglas County, Ore. August 12, 1909, 1 ,900 feet.
Hebard and Rehn.
Gerrhonotus burnettii Gray.
Burnett's Keeled Lizard.
17,522-7.
Mt.
Tamalpais, California.
September, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,844.
Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal., 3,500 feet.
August 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,854.
San Miguel Hills, San Francisco, Cal., 700 feet.
August 19, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
Gerrhonotus kingii Gray.
King's Lizard.
16.486.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus Linn.
Six-lined Lizard.
17,501-2.
Greasewood belt east of Alamogordo, N. Mex.
July, 13, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,503-5.
Three miles southeast of El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Cnemidophorus gularis Baird and Girard.
Spotted Race Runner, 16,501-5.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Ariz. August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,934.
Dragoon Station, Cochise County, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Cnemidophorus grahamii Baird and Girard.
Graham's Lizard.
17,514.
Mesa, east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Cnemidophorus tigris Say.
Tiger Lizard.
17,478.
Sonora Road Canon, Tucson Mountains, Arizona.
July 25, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,481.
Yuma, Ariz. July 27, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17.487.
Deming, N.
Mex., dry bed of Rio Mimbres.
July 18, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,509.
East of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex.
July 10, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,865-7.
Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nev. September 2, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,856.
Lyons, San Bernardino County, Cal.
September 1, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,969.
San Jacinto Mountains, Riverside County, Cal.
September 30, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
17,985.
Palm Springs, Riverside County, Cal.
September 29, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
18,018-22.
Sentinel, Maricopa County, Ariz. October 2, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Cnemidophorus tigris melanostethus Cope.
Black-throated Tiger Lizard.
17,466-70.
Roeble's Ranch, Coyote Springs between Tucson and Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
July 24, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
Eumeces obsoletns Baird and Girard.
Sonora Skink.
16.487.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
16,493-4.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
Diadophis regalis Baird and Girard.
Sonora Ring-necked Snake.
17,889.
Baboquivari Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,953.
Otero Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Ariz. 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,998.
Sycamore Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Ariz. October 6, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Bascanion semilineatum Cope.
Arizona Whip Snake.
16.488.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
Bascanion flagellum Shaw.
Whip Snake.
17,896.
Between Baboquivari Mountains and Las Gijas, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Bascanion constrictor venustum Baird and Girard.
California Black Snake.
17,852.
Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal.
August 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
Elaphe chlorosoma (Gttnther).
Mexican Green Snake.
17,895.
Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,909.
Agua Caliente Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 6,000 feet.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
The identity of these specimens was confirmed by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger who kindly examined one of them.
The species was not previously known from north of the Mexican boundary.
Lampropeltis pyrrhomelaena Cope.
Arizona Ringed Snake.
16,531-3.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,910.
Madera Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Pituophis oatenifer deserticola Stejneger.
Desert Bull Snake.
16,514.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,581.
North side of Grand Canon, Arizona.
1907.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
17,894.
Las Gijas, Pima County, Ariz. 1907.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Thamnophis parietalis (Say).
California Garter Snake.
17,851.
Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal.
August 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
Thamnophis eques (Reuss).
Brown Garter Snake.
17,997.
Sycamore Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona.
October 6, 1910.
Hebard and Rehn.
Elaps euryxanthus Kennicott.
Sonora Coral Snake.
17,932.
Mineral Hill, 19 miles south of Tucson, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Crotalus oregonus Holbrook.
Pacific Rattlesnake 17,848-50.
Sugar Loaf, near Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal.
August 15, 1909.
Hebard and Rehn.
Crotalus molossus Baird and Girard.
Black-tailed Rattlesnake 16,530.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,897.
Walnut Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 6,000 feet.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Crotalus lepidus Kennicott.
Green Rattlesnake, 16,499-500.
Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
August, 1905.
Dr. H. Skinner.
17,903.
Sheridan Canon, Big Hatchet Mountains, Grant County.
N. Mex.
1910.
Dr. II.
A. Pilsbry.
17,921.
Cochise Stronghold, Dragoon Mountains, Arizona.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Dr. Skinner found them on the talus slide and they could often be heard rattling underneath stones that had been disturbed.
Unlike most rattlesnakes, they invariably attempted to escape when approached.
Crotalus pricei Van Denberg.
Trice's Rattlesnake.
17,902.
Northwest flank of Old Baldy, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 7,500 feet.
1910.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
A typical specimen and the only one seen by any of the parties.
PLATE I. BFOWN: NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS.
PLATE II.
i e." *T» BROWN: NEW CYCADS AND CON1FEFS.
PLATE 111 .vSrQ* ... -s. ■■• • m ■•'J'" fcjaV i i Si * • ■ ■_.
/"'•«.!
-> V**^i2 V-^%c^ BROWN: NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS.
PLATE IV.
BROWN; NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS.
PLATE V. BROWN: NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS.
PLATE VI.
■ *■ ■•• '• '-'HbP ■ i ' > ■ ■ .
BERRY ON LOLLIGUNCULA.
PLATE VII.
A. P. BROWN: JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS.
PLATE VIII.
8 A. P. BROWN JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS.
PLATE IX.
8 A. P. BROWN: JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS.
PLATE X.
10 A. P. BROWN ■ JAMAICAN FLliURODONTS.
FLATF.
XI.
.\ ■ 8 10 9 11 A. P. BROWN: JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS.
PLATE XII.
r> « "v y 9 K» 11 12 / 13 14 15 18 19 20 21 1C> 99 ■ 23 24 * 25 4fe,J^ 17 26 ' fgpr ^3» 27 28 29 30 PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF GRAND CANYON AND NORTHERN ARIZONA.
PLATE XIII.
5 9 ._ k. 13 17 ' A <; 10 14 18 3 11 12 ,.
16 lo 19 21 09 25 23 27 ® 28 PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF GRAND CANYON AND NORTHERN ARIZONA.
April 4.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twelve persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper under the title : "Some Collections of Reptiles and Batrachians from the Western United States."
By Witmer Stone (March 30).
The death of Charles H. Pennypacker, a member, April 3, 1911, was announced.
Prof. Edgar T. Wherry made a communication on the Eleventh International Geological Congress.
(No abstract.)
April 18.
Mr. F. Lynwood Garrison in the Chair.
Thirty-six persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled "Records and Descriptions of African Mantidse and Phasmidse (Orthoptera)."
By James A. G. Rehn (April 10).
Spencer Trotter, M.D., made a communication on the men of the Barma Grande and certain other prehistoric Europeans.
(No abstract.)
Henry Skinner, M.D., presented to the Academy, on behalf of Mrs. LeConte, an oil portrait of John L. LeConte, M.D., painted by L. G. Seybert.
George B.
Wood, M.D., and David Gregg Metheny, M.D., were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed: 16 THE POLYCH-ETOITS ANNELIDS DREDGED BY THE U. S. S. "ALBATBOSS" OFF THE COAST OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA IN 1904: III.
EUPHBOSYNIDiE TO GONIADID.E.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
The present paper is in continuation of two parts already published under the same title and completes the Nereidiformia.
Parts I and II were published in these Proceedings for June, 1909, and April, 1910, respectively.
A fourth part dealing with the remaining Polychseta and completing the report is nearly ready for publication.
The large number of species that it has been necessary to name and describe in this paper further illustrates the richness of the Polychaete fauna of California and particularly of Monterey Bay and emphasizes the incompleteness of our knowledge of the subject.
EUPHROSYNIDiE.
Four species of Ewphrosyne, two of which are previously undescribed, represent this family.
Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore.
Ewphrosyne bicirrata Moore.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
532534, PI.
XXXIV, figs.
8-12.
Two specimens of 7.5 and 15 mm.
long, each having 26 segments.
The setae are remarkably long, the notopodials often exceeding the width of the body, and agree in character and distribution with the type.
There are six or seven pairs of gills on each somite, each consisting of two filaments which are subequal on the larger specimen and mostly distinctly unequal on the other; rarely one or two smaller gills are added.
The caruncle of the smaller specimen reaches to the anterior border of V. Median tentacle exceeds two-thirds the caruncle, the distal half being filamentous.
Middle cirrus between second and third gills from dorsum.
Stations 4,339, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego,.
241-369 fathoms, green mud; 4,549, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 56-57 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock.
Euphrosyne hortensis Moore.
Euphrosyne hortensis Moore.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
534536, PI.
XXXIV, figs.
13-16.
Two specimens of nine and ten millimeters long have 29 and 31 segments, respectively.
The caruncle reaches the middle of VI.
The branched and tufted gills form continuous rows of coarse filaments behind the palisades of setae and occur in seven or eight pairs, of which the lowermost, occupying the interramal space, and the uppermost tend to split up.
The middle cirrus is either opposite to the fourth or fifth gill or opposite the interval between them.
The setae are somewhat more slender than on the original specimens, but agree with them in other respects.
The dorsal ones project conspicuously above the gills and more or less cover the median dorsal area.
This species has much in common with E. heterobranchia Johnson, but lacks the smooth, cleft notopodial setae of that species.
Stations 4,463, Monterey Bay, Point Pinos Lighthouse, 4S-111 fathoms, rocky; 4,552, same locality, 66-73 fathoms, green mud and rocks.
Euphrosyne dumosa sp.
now PI.
XV, figs.
12-17.
A stout but little depressed species with conspicuous gills and much of the aspect of an Arctian caterpillar.
The type, having 34 segments, is 16 mm.
long, with a maximum width, exclusive of the setae, of 8 mm.
and a maximum depth of about 4.8 mm., exclusive of the gills and setae, and of 6 mm.
including them.
The cotype is 10 mm.
long and 4 mm.
wide with 32 segments.
Prostomial caruncle long and narrow, the tip of the crest reaching to or slightly beyond the furrow VI/VII, the base to the middle of VI only; base and crest well-differentiated and separated by deep longitudinal furrows; the crest smooth, not marked by distinct longitudinal grooves, continued forward by a low ridge to the furrow separating the palps.
Eyes, two pairs; the dorsal immediately at the anterior end of the caruncle on each side of the median tentacle, conspicuous, black, round or slightly elongated; the ventral about one-half as large, very close together between bases of peristomial parapodia.
Median tentacle situated at anterior end of caruncle, between dorsal eyes and composed of a short cylindrical ceratophore about as long as the basal width of the caruncle and a short style which is incomplete in both specimens.
Paired tentacles minute papillae immediately ventral to ventral eyes.
Palps smooth, flattened, ovate pads, separated by a median fissure and continuous by their contracted anterior ends with the peristomial parapodia.
A low facial ridge runs forward and downward to the fissure between the palpi.
Mouth bounded by palps in front, somite IV at the sides and the furrowed lip of V behind.
Peristomium coalesced with prostomium and the anterior part of the latter largely concealed between its forwardly directed parapodia.
Segments 32 to 34, strongly differentiated ventrally by deep furrows which are well-marked dorsally also, except in the median area where they become obsolete in a series of biconvex intersegmental areas.
Median naked field about one-fifth total width of dorsum, the parapodial areas densely covered with rows of branchiae and setae and occupying the rest of the dorsum.
Ventrally a slight neural groove runs from the posterior lip to the pygidium.
Pj'gidium minute, situated between the last pair of posteriorly directed parapodia and bearing a pair of appressecl vertical lamellar anal cirri with thickened borders.
Parapodia of the usual form, the notopodia sessile and dorsal; neuropodia lateral, slightly projecting, low lamella?, overlapping the ventral end of the notopodia from behind.
Cini usually about equal to gills in length, but sometimes slightly longer or shorter, rather stout, gently tapered.
Notocirrus usually the shortest of the three, reaching only slightly bej'ond the middle line and situated slightly mediad of the seta?
palisade and a little anterior to the branchia?.
Middle cirrus in line with notocirrus and opposite interval between third and fourth or fourth and fifth gills from the dorsum.
Neurocirrus similar, situated just within the postero-ventral margin of the neuropodial fascicle of seta?.
Branchia?
borne on all setigerous segments, usually ten (but sometimes nine or eleven) pairs on middle segments, the three ventralmost in the interramal area much crowded and often in actual contact or even with their stems partially coalesced.
Each gill (PI.
XV, fig.
12) consists of a well-defined, stout stem bifurcated into a pair of nearly symmetrical trunks which divide dichotomously three or four times and end in rather slender, cylindroid, pointed filaments often half the total height of the gill.
The angles of bifurcation are wide and the branching spreading in a plane so that the twigs of neighboring gills intercross.
In the oral region the number of gills is somewhat reduced, and on somite I there are only six pairs with more or less coalesced bases and rather short filaments often thickened in the middle.
The latter condition sometimes appears on other gills, but usually the filaments are extended and of regular diameter.
Notopodial seta?
(PI.
XV, figs.
13-15) arranged in a long palisade of three rows running the entire length of the gill series.
All are hollow, brittle, calcareous, translucent and white, or the granular contents of some of the larger ones slightly yellowish.
All are relatively short and few project beyond the ends of the gills.
Serrate bifid seta?
are unusually numerous and appear not only to make up the anterior series completely, but to enter largely into the formation of the other rows, especially at the dorsal end.
Their ends have the form shown in figures 15, 15a, both forks being gently curved, tapered and strongly serrated along the inner borders, the longer being about twice as long as the shorter and without a widened region.
Such setae appear to be absent from I, but are alike on other segments and are usually distinctly shorter than the gills.
They seldom show any trace of internal annulation or cameration.
Most of the setae of the second and third rows are of the simple spurred form (PI.
XV, figs.
13, 14) with nearly straight, smooth tips, those of the second row being longer and stouter, many of them reaching beyond the gills, those of the third row shorter than the serrate setae.
At the extreme ventral end of the palisade is a small compact tuft of much shorter setae with very short tips.
Neuropodial setae (PI.
XV, figs.
16 and 17) arise in several rows from an elliptical area.
Those in the dorsal part.
of the bundle are nearly twice as long as the neurocirrus, but ventrally they become shorter until the most ventral are scarcely one-third as long as the cirrus.
They have the general form of the smooth notopodial cirri, but are rather more slender and have longer, more curved ends and longer spurs.
Except for a pair of dusky spots on each segment of the median dorsal field and some dusky suffusions elsewhere, both specimens are colorless.
Stations 4,410, off Santa Catalina Island, 178-195 fathoms, gray sand, gravel and rocks (type); 4,470, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 61-69 fathoms, hard gray sand.
Euphrosyne limbata sp.
nov. PI.
XV, tigs.
7-11.
The single strongly curved specimen has a length of 17 mm., a maximum width of 7 mm., and a depth of 3 mm.
; segments 36.
Prostomial caruncle short, beginning at posterior border of II and reaching barely beyond caudal border of IV; low, depressed rather than compressed, the base narrow and overlapped laterally by the spreading crest which reaches slightly beyond the base posteriorly also.
.
Eyes two pairs, the dorsal black, somewhat elongated, slightly larger than the ventral, situated close together at the sides of the anterior end of the caruncle; ventral eyes smaller, nearly touching at median line, situated at ventral end of a low ridge which continues the caruncle forward and ventrad.
Median tentacle situated as usual at anterior end of caruncle between dorsal eyes, consisting of a stout cylindrical ceratophore about one-third length of caruncle and a minute conical style about one-half as long as the ceratophore.
Paired tentacles minute papillae immediately ventro-lateral of the ventral eyes.
Palps smaller than usual, irregularly ovate with narrower prolongations not continuous with the peristomial parapodia, but entering the cleft between them.
Mouth bounded by rugous lips formed laterally by III and IV and posteriorly by IV and V. Segments 36, all well defined, especially ventrally where they are superficially wrinkled.
Neural furrow slight, median dorsal naked field slightly exceeding one-fifth of total width, the triangular intersegmental areas rather obscure.
Caudal cirri short and thick, each folded longitudinally on itself so that the lamellar form is obscured.
Parapodia as in E. dumosa.
Notocirrus arising just dorsad (mediae!)
and slightly caudad of the notopodial setae, rather short, simple, tapered and reaching slightly beyond the middle line.
Neurocirrus similar, arising just within ventro-posterior portion of setae fascicle.
Intermediate cirrus situated about three-fifths length of setae palisade from its dorsal end or at least ventral to its middle, opposite interval between sixth and seventh or fifth and sixth gills from the dorsum and between the setae palisade and series of gills.
Branchiae (PI.
XV, figs.
7, 8), usually twelve pairs on each side of middle segments, but somewhat fewer toward the ends of the body.
The nine dorsalmost form a straight row well behind the setae and cirri, the three lowermost occupying the interramal space and usually separated from the others by a short interval.
Each gill lias a very short trunk soon divided into two, each of which is again divided dichotomously about four or five times to form thirty or more long terminal filaments.
All parts of the gill are slender and the terminal twigs so numerous and long that they form a dense interlacing mass between the rows of setae, the longest of which, however, rise well above and shelter them.
Setae all colorless and transparent and of one type, none being serrate or strictly bifid.
Notopodials (PI.
XV, fig.
9) erect in a narrow palisade of three irregular rows, those of anterior and posterior rows small and less than the gills in length; those of the middle row are fully twice as long and thick and rise conspicuously above the gills.
All are alike hollow, calcareous and brittle, with rather long, slightly curved, smooth tips strongly annulated or camerated within and bearing a prominent, subterminal, divergent spur.
Neuropodial setae are of the same type and those in the ventral part of the bundle (PI.
XV, fig.
10) differ little except in length from the longer notopodial setae.
Dorsal neuropodials (PI.
XV, fig.
11), however, are much longer and more slender, with very acute, straight tips and, as stated above, project laterally as very prominent fringes.
No color remains.
The only specimen comes from station 4,420, off San Nicholas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand.
This species is evidently closely related to'E.
maculata Horst from Timor, but lacks serrated, ringent dorsal setae.
Compared with E. dumosa, it appears remarkably broad and depressed, besides differing in many technical characters.
AMPHINOMIDiE.
Chloeia pinnata sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
1-6.
A very pretty, small and slender species of a slightly depressed, fusiform shape, tapering most toward the caudal end.
The type is 26 mm.
long, 6.5 mm.
wide at XI, where it is 5.5 mm.
deep, and has a spread of setae of 12 mm.
; segments 26.
Other specimens vary in length from 7 to 30 mm.
and have from 17 to 28 segments.
Prostomium coalesced with peristomium, its broadly truncate anterior border produced laterally round the peristomial parapodia; ventrally it appears as a tumid elliptical pad divided by a median longitudinal cleft and reaching the mouth; dorsally somewhat T-shaped, the broad anterior end extending laterally, while posteriorly it is contracted between the parapodia of somites I and II.
Caruncle arises from the prostomium and reaches to the anterior or occasionally to the posterior border of IV, but is entirely free from these segments, over which it passes like a flowing plume.
Two longitudinal furrows divide it into a compressed crest with accordion-plaited sides and smaller basal ridge also divided by transverse furrows into twelve or thirteen deep crenulations, each marked, like the crest folds, with a small brown spot.
Eyes two pairs, black, equally conspicuous, but the anterior slightly the larger, situated at sides of anterior end of caruncle, the anterior slightly in advance, the posterior slightly behind the anterior border.
Median tentacle arising from a low, smooth elevation coalesced with anterior end of caruncle, the style moderately slender, tapered, smooth, suberect, about one-fourth longer than the caruncle, but fragile and seldom complete.
Paired tentacles sessile, in contact between anterior eyes, similar in form to median tentacle and about one-half as long.
Peristomium and its parapodia completely coalesced with prostomium, not appearing as a distinct segment.
Somite II well-differentiated, divided ventrally by the mouth and forming the rugous lateral lips.
Mouth bounded behind by III which is united with IV to form the rugous posterior lip.
Remaining segments few, large, distinct, strongly differentiated by deep furrows below and more shallow ones above; lateral borders deeply and coarsely serrated; entire ventral surface and median dorsal (interbranchial) field quite smooth.
Segments increase in size to XI, then gradually decrease to the small bilobed pygidium which bears a pair of thick, truncate, cylindrical, appressed cirri about as long as the lateral tentacles.
Parapodia simple but rather prominent, lateral swellings producing the coarse lateral serrations, biramous, the notopodial and neuropodial tubercles widely separated and each bearing a large setigerous sac with elliptical orifice and an eversible rim, the notopodial orifice facing laterad and slightly dorsad and caudad, the neuropodial laterad and caudad.
Toward the ends the parapodia become smaller and the setae tufts gradually reduced ; the anterior ones shift toward the dorsum, the .first or peristomial foot being strictly dorsal; approaching the caudal end the setae fascicles are directed more and more caudad.
Notocirri arise at the caudo-dorsal border of the notopodial tuft of setae and reach to the base of the corresponding cirrus of the opposite side or on posterior segments beyond it.
Cirrophores long, slender, terete, nearly as long as the segments to which they belong; styles flagelliform, three to three and one-half times as long as the cirriphores.
Neurocirri arise within the lips of the setae sacs on the ventral side of the neuropodial fascicle; they consist of short and obscure cirrophores and long, slender, fragile, flagelliform styles equalling the notocirri on middle segments, but diminishing in size posteriorly and also anterior to V. The first three parapodia have the cirri relatively short and stout, the notocirrus considerably shorter than the neurocirrus.
They also possess a third much smaller cirrus situated immediately dorsal to the notocirrus and probably representing the gills ; they are similar to the notocirri and that on the peristomium is longest.
Branchiae begin on somite IV and continue, gradually diminishing in size, to the caudal end.
They arise on the posterior border of the dorsum of their segments, separated by about one-third of the total width, and lie nearly flat on the dorsum, reaching caudad over the succeeding segment so that they are slightly imbricated.
Form broadly suboval, lamellar, bipinnatifid; composed on middle segments of a tapered and somewhat sinuous axis bearing alternately on each side about eight simply pinnate branches diminishing in size and complexity distally, where the series is completed by two or three simple pinnae.
Toward the ends of the body they become smaller, with a diminished number of oinnae.
Proboscis protruded on many specimens to varying degrees and presenting very different aspects.
On the type it is a short truncate cylinder 3.5 mm.
in diameter and equally long, divided by three furrows into as many zones: first, a soft, somewhat inflated basal zone which, because of the incompleteness of the furrows in a nairow medial dorsal region, here encroaches on the other rings to the end of the proboscis; second, a narrower, firm and muscular middle ring and, third, a still shorter terminal muscular disk of a deep brown color with a central rugous area and a slight vertical furrow dividing it to the margins.
On other specimens the basal annulus is much larger and more inflated, the terminal disk is sometimes folded together along the vertical furrow in partial retraction, and sometimes in complete extension has the rugous area protruded as a prominent rounded mass turned toward the dorsum to conceal the mouth from below and marked by a slight median furrow and numerous, slightly sinuous, transverse raised lines.
Still other specimens have this distal region much more extended to a length exceeding all the rest of the proboscis, and bearing the large orifice at the end of the flat, smooth and soft dorsal part, the deep spoon-shaped or ventricose sides and venter being completely formed by the rugous area.
Setae all nearly or quite colorless, tubular, with soft, granular contents, very brittle.
When massed the setse are sometimes distinctly yellow and those of some of the younger specimens exhibit a beautiful satiny luster.
Notopodials in somewhat whorled, suberect tufts, becoming longer and more recumbent toward the caudal end.
They are rather stout, slightly curved and tapered to rather blunt points, below which, at a varying distance, is a spur, conspicuous on the more ventral setae (PI.
XV, fig.
1) which are truly bifid, nearly obsolete on dorsal setae (PI.
XV, fig.
3).
Most notosetae of middle segments are smooth or nearly so, but some (fig.
2) exhibit slight serrations, and this may be the normal state of unworn setae.
Posteriorly the setae become longer and usually lack the spur; anteriorly contrary changes occur.
Neuropodial setae much more numerous, slender and elongated, forming very dense tufts which spread laterad, but posteriorly more caudad.
Posterior setae are more elongated and truly capillary, but on some examples they exceed the body width, even on the middle parapodia.
They are of the same type as the notopodials, but the spur is close to the tip and small or obsolete (PI.
XV, figs.
4, 5).
Toward the ends of the body modifications similar to those affecting the notosetae occur (PI.
XV, fig.
6).
Color.
Probably richly colored in life, but most of the preserved specimens are faded and colorless except for a wedge-shaped brown or purple spot in front of the lateral tentacles, a rich madder purple coloration of the notocirri and a brown spot at the end of each anal cirrus; others show traces of a more extensive purple coloration, especially on posterior segments.
The under parts, including the neurocirri, are always colorless, as are the tentacles and one to three or four pairs of the anterior notocirri.
Not infrequently also, the color is lost more or less completely from the styles of IV, V and VI, but the cirrophores always retain the deep purple color.
A specimen from station 4,416 is of a fine rosy color above with a median series of white oval spots.
Several specimens from station 4,454 have the notocirri brown and the ventral surface, proboscis and rarely portions of the dorsal surface spotted with sharply defined, quadrate, brown spots.
Sometimes only three or four occur on the entire ventral surface, in which case some are likely to occur on the dorsum; sometimes they are much more numerous and in places crowded or even coalesced and rarely the spots are X-shaped.
Chlocia pinnata is one of the most abundantly represented and generally distributed species included in this collection.
There are in all nearly three hundred specimens, about half of which came from stations 4,460, 4,475 and 4,552 and about twenty each from stations 4,349, 4,480 and 4,485, all of these being muddy bottoms.
No less than ninety-seven were taken at station 4,475, from among which the type was selected.
The full list is as follows: Stations 4,309, Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 67-78 fathoms, fine sand, shells and rock; 4,310, same locality, 71-75 fathoms, fine sand and green mud ; 4,322, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 110-199 fathoms, green mud and shells; 4,332, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 62-1S3 fathoms, gray and black sand with rocks; 4,339. same locality, 16S-254 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and rock; 4,349, same locality, 75-134 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,364, same locality, 101-129 fathoms, gray sand, mud and rock; 4,365, same locality, 130-158 fathoms, green mud; 4,366, same locality and bottom, 176-181 fathoms; 4,416, off Santa Barbara Island, 323-448 fathoms, dark green mud and rock; 4,418, same locality, 238-310 fathoms, dark mud, sand and rock; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,423, same locality, 216-339 fathoms, gray sand with black pebbles and shells; 4,454, Monterey Bay, Point Pinos Lighthouse, 65-71 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,460, same locality, 55-167 fathoms, green mud and gravel; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,475, same locality, 85-142 fathoms, .soft green mud; 4,4S0, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,485, same locality, 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,510, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 91-184 fathoms, gray mud; 4,522, same locality, 130-149 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,523, same locality, 75-10S fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,552, same locality, 66-73 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4,553, same locality, 65-74 fathoms, rock.
NEPHTHYDIDiE.
Nephthys caeca (Fabricius) Oersted.
Nephthys cceca, Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1869, pp.
588-617, Taf.
XXIII, figs.
10-34; Wiren, Vega Expeditionens, II, pp.
392-397, Taf.
30 and 31.
After puzzling a long time over the many specimens of Nepthhys in this collection, I have been unable to come to any satisfactory conclusion regarding the number of species actually represented, and have, therefore, tentatively begged the question and followed Wiren in listing all of the forms represented under the above name.
As a matter of fact, scarcely a single specimen can be confidently said to be typical N. cceca, though a number differ from it only intangibly.
Most of them, in having the neuropodial postsetal lip much larger than the corresponding part of the notopodium, resemble N. hombergi Aud.
and M. E. (= N. assimilis Oersted, Malmgr en).
Here belong especially those from stations 4,443, 4,462, 4,482, 4,485, 4,510, 4,523 and 4,548, all in Monterey Bay.
One lot (station 4,436), in the almost total absence of parapodial lamella?, approaches very closely N. ciliata (Muller) Rathke and has the rami widely separated as in N. incisa Malmgren but all of them have more segments than the latter.
Specimens from stations 4,306 and 4,549 also approach this type, but the lamellae are better developed.
Two small specimens (station 4,482) have the long setse and long involute gills of N. malmgreni Theel ( = N. longisetosa Malmgren non Oersted).
Examples from many of the other stations present intermediate characters, and it is for this reason that I do not here separate the forms as I have done previously, though I am by no means convinced that more than one species may not be represented.
The specimens vary in size from little more than 1 mm.
wide to 8 and 9 mm.
wide, the largest invariably incomplete.
Many of the smaller ones show a conspicuous color pattern in the form of an irregular brown or dusky spot on the prostomium and bars of the same color across many of the anterior segments.
Stations 4,306, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 207-497 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and gravel; 4,310, same locality, 71-75 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,349, same locality, 81-134 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,364, same locality, 101-129 fathoms, gray sand, mud and rock; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,436 off San Miguel Island, 264-271 fathoms, green mud; 4,443, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 32-37 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,462, same locality, 161-265 fathoms, green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,475, same locality, 58-85 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud, sand; 4,482, same locality, 43-44 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,485, same locality, 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud, sand; 4,510, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 91-156 fathoms, gray mud; 4,522, same locality, 130-149 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,523, same locality, 75-108 fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,526, same locality, 204-239 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4,538, same locality, 795-871 fathoms, hard gray sand ; 4.548, same locality, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock; 4.549, same locality and bottom, 56-57 fathoms.
NEREIDJE.
The Nereidae are represented less richly than in similar collections along the more northern shores of the Pacific side of North America.
The absence of any of the large species of Alitta is especially noteworthy.
Nereis procera Ehlers.
PI.
XV, fig.
18.
Nereis procera Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1868, pp.
557-559; Taf.
XXIII, fig.
2.
Represented by a number of small specimens, 21 to 45 mm.
long, in the atokous phase and all sexually immature, which agree closely with Ehlers' description and also with larger mature examples already reported in these Proceedings for 1909 from the littoral zone at San Diego and Monterey Bay.
The jaws and paragnaths conform generally to Ehlers' description, but group V may be absent or represented by either one or two paragnaths and the band VIIVIII varies much in width.
The number of segments varies from 60 to 75.
The setae, studied on one specimen, are disposed as follows: On anterior parapodia the notopodium bears six or eight homogomphs with slender "fish-bone" appendages, the neuropodial supra-acicular fascicle contains foui or five similar homogomphs and usually two stout heterogomphs with short, scarcely falcate appendages, and the neuropodial subacicular fascicle two or three homogomphs and five or six heterogomphs like the above, together with a few heterogomphs with longer appendages.
On middle segments the number of homogomphs increases, but the heterogomphs become stouter and fewer.
By about XXXIX the slender notopodials are replaced by two stout homogomphs with short, stout, fusiform, nearly buried appendages.
A specimen from station 4,425 has the parapodia longer with more pointed linguke than usual and the characteristic notopodial setae apparently wanting, but in all other respects, including the paragnaths, is typical.
Several from station 4,496 have the color pattern well-preserved.
The anterior end is ashy, marked with brown spots and streaks gradually fading out and disappearing at about XVIII, beyond which the cuticle exhibits a conspicuous iridescence on a pigmentless integument.
A large triangular spot (formed of a central and two lateral lines) occupies nearly the entire dorsum of the prostomium with its base resting on the eyes.
The segments are marked by a central transverse dash, a pair of paramedian dashes near the anterior end, a similar pair near the posterior end, and a pair of lateral spots.
On the first few segments the anterior and posterior pairs of spots tend to unite into two lines.
Of greater interest are five male specimens in the epitokous phase, hitherto unknown, taken at station 4,355.
All are small, varying from 17 mm.
and 54 segments to 28 mm.
and 67 segments.
In the latter the anterior region is 10.6 mm.
long.
In all cases the anterior region has 14 setigerous segments besides the apodous peristomium.
Prostomium of the general form seen in the atokous phase, but rather shorter and more broadly rounded anteriorly and strongly bent ventrad so that the anterior eyes lie rather more than half beneath the posterior.
Eyes of each side coalesced, but not especially enlarged, each being little more than one-fourth the prostomial width.
Both have large lenses, the ventral looking ventrad and laterad, the dorsal dorsad and laterad.
Tentacles about threefourths as long as prostomium, but ventrad and regularly tapered.
Palps directed ventrad, short, scarcely more than one-half length of prostomium, basal segment stout, distal minute.
Peristomium obscurely biannulate with a narrow, feebly separated anterior ring.
Tentacular cirri all short, rather distinctly but irregularly articulated; posterior dorsal reaches to V, anterior dorsal to beyond middle of III, and the two very short ventral cirri scarcely beyond the anterior border of II.
On the largest specimen, which has the anterior segments more extended, the cirri are relatively shorter.
Pygidium minute, top-shaped, bearing a pair of rudimentary parapodia, two pairs of short ventral subanal cirri and a whorl of slender papillae.
Parapodia of anterior region similar in general characters and setae to atokous type of corresponding segments.
Notopodia of first seven with basal half much enlarged, the distal portion remaining filiform, but not strongly bent.
Neurocirri of first five setigerous segments also thickened at the base.
All remaining parapodia are modified to the natatorial type, there being no caudal region, but the serrated notocirri continue to about XLV only, behind which they are smooth.
The form of the complex lamellae and lingulae is best understood by reference to figure 18 (PI.
XV).
All setae are of the usual natatorial type and none of the peculiar setae so characteristic of the middle notopodia of atokous individuals are present.
One specimen has the proboscis protruded and exhibits the paragnaths and jaws in characteristic arrangement.
Stations 4,355, San Diego Harbor, surface; 4,405, off San Clemente Island, 654-704 fathoms, green mud; 4,415, off Santa Barbara Island, 302-638 fathoms, green mud; 4,417, off Santa Barbara Island, 29 fathoms, fine yellow sand and rock; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,421, same locality, 229-298 fathoms, gray mud and rock; 4,425, same locality, 1,100-1,084 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and Globigerina; 4,427, off Santa Cruz Island, 447-510 fathoms, black mud and rock; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-41 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,496, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; 4,531, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 26-28 fathoms, fine gray sand, rock.
Nereis pauoidentata Moore.
Nereis paucidentata Moore.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, pp.
430, 431, PI.
XXIV, figs.
28-30.
A single small imperfect specimen fromstation4,397,Lat.33°10'15"N. Long.
121° 42' 15" W., 2,196 fathoms, gray mud.
This is the first record of this species south of the Gulf of Georgia and the bathymetrical range is even more extended from 270 fathoms.
The species is not uncommon in Alaskan waters.
Nereis cyolurus Harrington.
Nereis cyclurus Harrington, Trans.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci., XVI, 1S97, p. 214.
Two fine specimens showing faintly the annular bands of color.
"Commensal in Natica shell with hermit crab."
Station 4,560, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 10-12 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock.
Platynereis agassizi (Ehlers).
PI.
XV, fig.
19.
Nereis agassizi Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1868, pp.
542-546, Taf.
XXIII, fig.
1.
Besides several atokous individuals, two of which (station 4,559) contain eggs, a large number of sexually mature epitokous examples were taken at station 4,355 by means of a surface electric light and dip-nets.
Of the latter 83 were males and only 5 females.
As the latter have never been described, a brief description is here added.
In general appearance they agree closely with the males, but average somewhat larger, from 21 to 33 mm.
long.
The two regions of the body of the two extremes measure, respectively, 5 and 16 mm.
and 11 and 22 mm.
long, and the segments number from 93 (28 + 65) to 131 (28 + 103), the anterior region of the female comprising, therefore, seven more segments than that of the male, which has 21.
One female has only 27.
The color is generally pale and faded, but shows indications of transverse brown lines and posteriorly more distinct transverse rows of spots.
Some of the specimens exhibit the same yellow color anteriorly as shown by the males, but usually much paler.
Prostomium almost exactly as in the males, the eyes, coalesced on each side, scarcely perceptibly smaller, the palps and tentacles turned almost as markedly ventrad.
Peristomial cirri, so far as preserved, have the same proportions as in the males and, also, as in the males, are easily detached, so that many of them are wanting.
One specimen, however, in which all are present, has two dorsal cirri nearly equal, both reaching XV, and the anterior ventral reaching to VI.
There is a very short caudal region of ten or twelve segments with few or no swimming setse and a short, tapering, tubular pygidium often constricted into two rings, quite different from that of the male in that it bears four cirriform papillae in place of the whorl existing in the latter.
The first five (on the smallest specimen four) notocirri only are thickened and the slender distal end much less abruptly hooked than on the males.
First four neuropodia similar to those of the males.
Parapodia and setse of anterior region also as in the males.
Posterior parapodia differ from those of the males chiefly in the total absence from both notocirri and neurocirri of the sense organs which cause them to appear serrated, the cirri in the females being therefore quite smooth, simple and tapered.
Most of the specimens have shed the greater part of their eggs, but one remains filled with them as far forward as the tenth setigerous somite, inclusive, and a few have escaped into more anterior somites.
They crowd the basal part of the parapodia as well as the ccelom.
The character of the mature eggs is shown in figure 19, PI.
XV.
Stations 4,346, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 46-50 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand; 4,347, same locality, 55-58 fathoms, fine gray sand (both epitoke and atoke); 4,355, San Diego Harbor, surface (many epitokes); 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,422, same locality, 31-32 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,559, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 8-22 fathoms, fine gray sand.
EUNICIDiE.
Eunice (Eriphyle) paloloides Moore.
Eunice (Eriphyle) paloloides Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1909, pp 246-249, PI.
VII, figs.
5-7.
A much broken and macerated female specimen containing a few eggs in the posterior region.
The sexual region begins at about segment CLXXXV.
The tentacles and branchiae are somewhat shorter than those of the type, but this probably results from the macerated condition of the specimen.
In all other features studied it agrees with the type.
Station 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand.
Eunice multipeotinata sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
20-23.
A fine, robust species which reaches a considerable size.
The type is 205 mm.
long with a maximum width of body of 7.5 mm.
and between the seta?
tips of 13 mm.
Number of segments 181.
Other complete specimens vary from 47 mm.
long, 2 mm.
wide, with 87 segments to 203 mm.
long and 9 mm.
wide.
One 195 mm.
long and 7 mm.
wide has 177 segments.
Incomplete specimens range all the way from 1 mm.
to 11 mm.
in width.
Prostomium in all except the smallest specimens retracted and deeply sunken into the peristomial collar to the tentacles; deeply incised and bilobed anteriorly to form the somewhat divergent, short, thick, bluntly rounded palps, slightly divided by a shallow transverse groove into a larger ventral and a smaller dorsal segment.
Tentacles in a crowded transverse row, each with a small indistinct ceratophore; the styles more or less strongly and irregularly annulated or distinctly articulated; on the smaller specimens the median has about seven articulations and reaches to VII, the inner paired have but five articulations and reach to IV or V and the outer paired four articulations and reach III.
Large specimens have shorter tentacles which have evidently worn away at the tips.
Eyes always large and conspicuous, situated immediately behind the outer paired tentacles.
Peristomium very large, fully as long as the three succeeding segments and forming a prominent collar, into which the prostomium is retracted, most deeply in the larger specimens; on each side a shallow notch, below which it is produced forward more prominently to form a slightly crenulated lower lip with concave border.
Somite II also apodous, not exceeding one-third length of peristomium with which it is coalesced at the sides.
Nuchal qirri similar to cephalic tentacles but more slender, reaching to or nearly to the cephalic border of the prostomium.
Metastomial podous segments well-defined, very regular, simple, 10-14 times as wide as long anteriorly, not over 8 times as wide as long posteriorly, strongly arched above, flattened, with neural furrow below.
They increase in width gradually to about XL, then taper gently caudad.
Pygidium a short ring with a slight marginal thickening and bearing a pair of slender, little-tapered, stiff and smooth cirri as long as the last six segments and arising close together below the large anus.
Immediately below and concealed by these is a second pair of minute and inconspicuous cirri.
Parapodia (PI.
XV, fig.
20) of simple form and exhibiting the changes in position and proportions usual in the genus.
Notocirri four or five, or posteriorly (where the parapodia become shortened) even more, times as long as the neuropodia, slightly tapered and smooth or very slightly wrinkled, becoming much more slender posteriorly.
Neurocirri prominent anteriorly, with thick, swollen, ovate bases and short, thick, cylindroid styles.
Farther back the basal part is gradually reduced and finally becomes minute and the style becomes first short and conical and then slender and tapered, but always considerably exceeds the neuropodium in length.
Acicula all very dark brown and opake except that the tips are often pale; the neuropodial three or anteriorly sometimes two, projecting from the acicular tubercle at the dorsal level of the fascicle of simple setre.
They are simple, tapering rods with rathei acute points on anterior parapodia and blunt, often bent or somewhat knobbed ends on posterior parapodia where they become very stout.
Notopodial acicula'a fascicle of slender brown fibers passing into the base of the notocirrus in connection with a heavy mass of brown pigment.
With the exception of the stout crochets which are brown, the setae are colorless or pale yellow.
Three kinds occur on all segments.
Simple, slender, wingless capillary seta?
form a small dorsal tuft in connection with the acicula.
Among the bases of the capillary sets?
are delicate pectinate setae with slightly curved ends provided with a few indistinct 17 teeth and a marginal mucron (PL XV, fig.
22).
Most numerous are the compound setae (fig.
21) which are arranged in about six rows, are pale yellow, with curved and distally thickened shafts and short, strongly hooked, and bidentate appendages with a delicate guard finely denticulated on the margin.
The last become larger caudad.
Beginning at about XXVII two (sometimes one) stout crochets appear projecting prominently obliquely from the neuropodium ventral to the compound setae; they are slightly curved, with stout principal tooth and smaller more distal accessory tooth and provided with a split guard (fig.
23).
Branchiae strictly unilateral pectinate throughout (PL XV, fig.
20), consisting of a tapered main stem arising from the base of the neurocirrus on its dorsal side and curving gently up the sides of the body, but remaining erect, leaving the dorsum uncovered ; filaments arising nearly at right angles to the stem in a close rank and lying nearly parallel, slender, the longest not exceeding two-thirds the length of the notocirrus and the main trunk, exclusive of the terminal filament into which it is prolonged, not much greater.
On the type the gills begin on somite IX with seven filaments, attain the maximum of twelve filaments and retain this number, with occasionally one or two more for a great many segments, then undergo gradual reduction posteriorly, the gill on the fourth preanal segment still being trifid.
With few exceptions the gills of all specimens begin on IX, the only departures being three specimens, on two of which the first on one side occurs on VIII and on another on X.
The number of filaments varies greatly, increasing with the size of the specimen.
The smallest example (1 mm.
wide) has the first gill simple and most of the others bifid.
A complete specimen, 47 mm.
long and 2 mm.
wide with 87 segments, bears gills on all podous segments beginning with IX, the first and the last two consisting of a single filament each and the maximum number of filaments being three.
One 140 mm.
long and 4 mm.
wide lacks gills on the last four segments, the maximum number of filaments is seven and most of the gills caudad of the middle of the body are trifid.
Another, 195 mm.
long and 7 mm.
wide, with 177 segments, has trifid gills on IX of one side, X of the other and attains a maximum of twelve or thirteen filaments, with the last three segments abranchiate.
The largest complete specimen is 203 mm.
long and 9 mm.
wide and bears a small gill of two filaments on one side of VIII, the maximum number of filaments being fourteen and the last gill on the fourth preanal segment.
Bifid filaments occur frequently.
Jaws (described from a co-type, station 4,431) hard and firm.
Mandibles with stout, divergent, nearly black stems joined only slightly by an anterior isthmus; masticatory plates hard, white, oval, with smooth, entire anterior border.
Maxillae black or nearly so.
Carriers of forceps-jaws nearly as wide as long, broadly rounded behind; the forceps of the usual falcate form; II very large and stout with five large teeth and one small one on each side; III on the right side is a long narrow piece with eleven teeth diminishing in size from before backward and is paired with two pieces on the left side with four and eight teeth, respectively; IV bears a single prominent tooth on each side; V is a small toothless plate.
Two other specimens dissected agree in all essentials, the teeth being generally tipped with white and the border of the mandible in one case tridentate.
Color of the full-grown specimens pearl or gray with a beautiful and delicate iridescence.
Two of the larger specimens have the dorsum finely mottled with brown.
The smallest examples are more distinctively colored: one is pale brown above with an obscure white zone on IV and V; another (the smallest) has the first three segments almost solidly orange-brown, IV and V pure opalescent white and several succeeding segments annulated with brown and white.
Stations 4,312, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 95-135 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; 4,373, same locality, 95-225 fathoms, green mud, sand and rock; 4,377 (Type), same locality, 127-299 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 3S-41 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,463, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 2S5-357 fathoms, green mud; 4,532, same locality, 30 fathoms, gray sand and rock.
This species is related to E. bilobata Treadwell, but is readily distinguished by several characters, especially by the notably smaller number of gill filaments.
The type of E. bilobata is 5.5 mm.
wide and the first gill (on IX) has nine filaments, the maximum reaching eighteen.
A specimen of E. multipectinata of the same size has only two filaments on the first gill and a maximum of seven filaments.
Other species having pectinate gills for the entire length which have been reported from the Pacific Ocean are E. antennata Savigny, E. microprion v. Marenzeller and E. flavo-fasciata Grube.
All of these have the gills beginning farther forward and differ in other respects also.
Eunice hawaiensis Tread well?
Eunice hawaiensis Treadwell, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., XXIII (1906), PI.
Ill, pp.
1166, 1167, figs.
42-44.
The solitary incomplete example referred to here, while differing considerably from Treadwell' s description, is certainly very closely related to, if not identical with, E. hawaiensis.
It consists of 122 anterior segments having a length of 76 mm.
and a width without parapodia of 5.5 mm.
and with them, but excluding setse, of 8.5 mm.
The prostomium with its tentacles, the parapodia, setae (of which, however, Treadwell's figure does not show a full profile view), and maxillse are practically identical with those of E. hawaiensis.
The branchia?, however, are fewer and much less complex than those of the type.
They have the following distribution and number of filaments on the right side, the left being almost identical : 1 filament somite V, 2 filaments somite VIII, 5 on IX, 9 on X, 13 on XII, 15 on XV, 19 on XX, 15 on XXVI, 16 on XXXV, 8 on XL, 5 on XLII, 2 on XLIII and 1 on XLIV.
Wheie best developed, from XV to XXX, the gills are very large with numerous long, parallel filaments equalling about one-third the.
body width.
Although closely resembling the gills of E. hawaiensis , the stems are always gently curved, never abruptly bent.
The first three consist of the main trunks only.
The type of E. hawaiensis is larger, measuring 7 mm.
in body width and has the gills beginning on IV with three filaments and continuing to beyond L, and when best developed possessing as many as thirty filaments.
This is a greater difference than one would expect in two individuals of the same species differing no more in size than do these.
The hard, white masticatory plates of the mandibles, in addition to the large lateral tooth, bear three small teeth near the median line.
Eunice congesta v. Marenzeller may be mentioned as another closely related Pacific species.
Station 4,537, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 1,062 fathoms,, hard sand and mud.
Marphysa conferta sp.
nov. PI.
XVI, figs.
29-34.
Known from a single specimen 24 mm.
long and 1.9 mm.
wide betwin tips of parapodia with 57 segments and a regeneration cone of about a dozen indistinct segments.
Prostomium (PI.
XVI, fig.
29) large, nearly as wide as the peristomium, suborbicular but bent downward so that in dorsal view it is foreshortened and appears much wider than long, depressed, with an anterior notch that is the termination of a ventral groove that slightly divides it into somewhat swollen rounded halves.
Eyes one pair, large, conspicuous, brown, situated close to the posterior border immediately behind the lateral tentacles.
Tentacles five, arising along a slightly curved transverse line near the posterior end of the prostomium, but passing in front of the eyes laterally.
All slightly fusiform, tapered to distal end and transversely wrinkled or subarticulated, the median about one and onethird times the length of the prostomium, the others successively somewhat shorter.
Peristomium a simple, regularly cylindrical, smooth, apodous ring with a slight median ventral notch on the lip and no trace of nuchal cirri.
Somite II scarcely more than one-half as long as I, but otherwise similar.
The remainder of the body is terete, of nearly uniform diameter except that the posterior portion is somewhat enlarged and distended with ova.
The segments become shorter to the branchial region, where they are about four and one-half times as wide as long; posterior to this the length again increases until at the posterior end they are only twice as wide as long.
With the fourth (PI.
XVI, fig.
29) a small ring separates at the anterior end of each segment and increases until in the post-branchial region it forms a regular propodal annulus.
Pygidium at the end of the regeneration cone a short tube bearing one cirrus about equal to one-fourth the body width and another half as long as the first.
Parapodia (PI.
XVI, figs.
30, 31) strictly lateral and in the probranchial and branchial regions prominent and outstanding, becoming smaller in the postbranchial region, strictly uniramous, there being no trace of a notopodium.
Anterior parapodia consist of a low, rounded, slightly compressed setigerous tubercle, behind which is a compressed postsetal lip at the base as deep as the setigerous lobe, while its bluntly ending dorsal part is prolonged to about twice the length of the base.
The notocirrus arises just above the foot and is about twice its length, somewhat enlarged at the base, slender and tapering distally and marked with obscure annular furrows.
The neurocirrus has a thick, swollen base broadly attached to the ventral face of the neuropodium and bearing a small papilliform distal piece which is bent more or less ventrad.
Posterior to the branchial region the parapodia and all of their parts become gradually smaller.
The neuropodia become low, compressed cones (fig.
31), the apex of which is formed by the acicular process, while the postsetal lip becomes low and inconspicuous.
The basal part of the neurocirri is much reduced, leaving only the short, bluntly rounded cirrus which reaches to the end of the acicular process.
The notocirrus while undergoing reduction in size retains its characteristic form and proportions, having a basal enlargement and a slender style about three times as long as the foot.
Neuropodial acicula two or three simple, straight, tapered rods with the ends pale and the middle brown or black.
Posteriorly there is only one of these, the distal end of which projects freely.
No notopodial acicula.
Branchiae (PL XVI, fig.
30) remarkable for their large size and restriction to nine segments (X-XVIII inclusive).
The first on X has five fully developed filaments and the number on the others varies from five to seven.
Each consists of a short, stout, tapered trunk arising from the dorsal side of the base of the notocirrus and curving dorsad over the back, its distal end abruptly bent to form the last filament, parallel and nearly equal to the others, which are slender and tapered and nearly equal in length to the notocirrus with which the ventralmost is coalesced at the base.
The largest meet across the dorsum.
Setae of four kinds, all but the crochets colorless.
Compound seta?
(fig.
32) form a dense subacicular fascicle of several rows, very numerous anteriorly, fewer behind.
The shafts are slender, curved, with the ends enlarged, oblique and bearing a deep cleft or socket with finely serrated borders.
Appendages loosely attached, tapered from the basal enlargement to the bidentate tip, remarkable for the length and wide separation of the teeth ; detached front border finely denticulated or striated and continued into the delicate hood.
Supra-acicular fascicle composed of a tuft of delicate simple capillary seta?, some of which are prolonged as far as the end of the notocirrus and associated with these on postbranchial parapodia a few very delicate pectinate seta?
w T ith 16 or 18 short mucronate teeth and one margin bearing a slender filament (fig.
33).
Posterior parapodia bear a single ventral crochet of a yellow color and having the end bidentate and hooded (fig34).
Practically colorless and lacking notable iridescence, only a slight greenish shimmer anteriorly.
Jaws not dissected.
The type, a female filled with ova, comes from station 4,431, off Brockway Point, Santa Rosa Island, 38-40 fathoms, coarse gray sand, yellow mud and rocks.
ONUPHID^.
The large number of species representing this family is noteworthy, there being in the collection five species of Nothria, three of Onuphis, one of Diopatra and two of Hyalincccia — no less than eleven in all.
Within areas of similar size and under similar conditions of collecting one usually finds not over four or five species.
Three species were found each at station 4,387, in deep water off the Gulf of Santa Catalina, and 4,510, in Monterey Bay.
With few exceptions, they occurred on muddy bottoms.
Nothria iridescens Johnson.
Noihria iridescens Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 408, PI.
S, figs.
86, S7; PI.
9, figs.
88-92.
The gills of this species begin on the first parapodium.
Two points in Johnson's description require modification after a study of the large number of specimens in this collection.
The biarticulate style of the posterior paired tentacles is accidental and inconstant.
Similar breaks may occur on any of the styles; there may be several on one style or be asymmetrical on the two styles of a pair or, as is most usual, altogether absent.
Neurocirri do not disappear on V, but remain quite prominent, though short and thick, to VII, and their thickened bases continue as glandular swellings to the middle of the body as in many other species of the genus.
The posterior paired tentacles, although quite variable in length, seem always to exceed the median tentacle.
The color is quite variable, but usually more or less blotched with deep purple and brightly iridescent anteriorly.
A tube of average size is 190 mm.
long and 5.5 mm.
in diameter, the outer end being slightly larger than the inner.
The larger end is composed almost entirely of a very fragile wall of fine silt nearly 2 mm.
thick and lacks the tough membranous lining that extends through the remainder of the tube.
This species occurs generally throughout the region covered by this report and was taken in abundance at stations 4,462, 4,485, 4,508, 4,510, 4,523, 4,525 and 4,526.
Stations 4,322, Soledad Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Dieg'o, 110-199 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,339, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 289-369 fathoms, green mud; 4,433, off Santa Rosa Island, 243-265 fathoms, green mud; 4,436, off San Miguel Island, 264-271 fathoms, green mud; and the following stations in Monterey Bay: 4,446, 4,457, 4,461, 4,462, 4,463, 4,464, 4,475, 4,482 4,485, 4,508, 4,510, 4,522, 4,523, 4,524, 4,525, 4,526, 5,428 at depths varying from 36 to 357 fathoms, except in the case of the last station where the depth is recorded as 766-800 fathoms.
The bottoms were muddy, usually "soft green mud," except at station 4,463, which was rocky and yielded a single specimen, and at station 4,522, which yielded ten specimens and is recorded as of gray sand and shells, though evidently adjoining a bed of green mud (station 4,523, etc.).
Nothria geophiliformis Moore.
Nothria geophiliformis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, pp.
445448, PI.
XXV, figs.
57-59.
Gills may begin on either V or VI, usually the latter.
A young specimen has a pair of minute eye specks.
The small size of this species has probably caused it to be overlooked at some stations.
The anterior articulated crochets differ strikingly from those of N. pallida.
Stations 4,445, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 60-66 fathoms, green mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,510, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 91-156, gray mud.
Nothria pallida sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
24-28: pi.
XVI, 35-37.
A moderately elongated species, terete anteriorly, depressed for most of the length.
The type — an incomplete specimen with the caudal end regenerating — consists of 166 segments and is 82 mm.
long with a maximum body width of 4 mm.
and a depth of 2.7 mm.
at the end of the anterior third.
A complete specimen 62 mm.
long and 2.8 mm.
wide has 266 segments.
Another broken specimen has an aggregate length of 124 mm.
and 290 segments.
Prostomium relatively larger than in N. geophilo form/is, quadrate orbicular in outline, slightly wider than long, with the greatest width at the level of the posterior paired tentacles.
No distinct eyes, though several obscure dusky spots appear on the prostomium.
Frontal tentacles nearly in contact at the base, arising on extreme anterior border of prostomium, divergent, cylindroid with a lateral emargination about which they are bent into a bean-like shape ; about twice as long as thick and one-half as long as the prostomium.
Anterior or outer paired tentacles barely reaching to III, the annulated ceratophore of thirteen rings and a short, non-annulated end, about one and onefourth times as long as the short, smooth conical style.
Posterior lateral tentacles reaching XVI or XVII, the ceratophores nearly as long as the entire anterior tentacles and composed of seventeen rings and a smooth end-piece; styles flagelliform, much more slender than ceratophores and three and one-half times as long.
Median tentacle reaching to IX, similar to posterior paired tentacles, but cerataphores only half as long with nine or ten annuli.
A small specimen has the styles of the anterior paired tentacles nearly equal to the ceratophores and the median and posterior paired tentacles shorter than on the type, the latter reaching to XII only.
Palps situated immediately in front of mouth, separated by a narrow cleft only, thick, quadrate, and divergent, about twice the size of the frontal tentacles.
Peristomium not longer than prostomium, continuing its regular outline and widening posteriorly; deeply cleft below for mouth and bearing the wide, bilobed, hammer-shaped, posterior lip.
Nuchal tentacles arising from its extreme anterior border, separated by slightly more than their length and reaching extreme anterior endoprostomium.
Anterior region of body slender and terete, the segments about as long as wide and not much wider anteriorly than posteriorly.
Beyond V the segments become gradually shorter, wider and more depressed until in the middle region they are very regularly about eight times as wide as long.
Farther back they become gradually narrower and less depressed without change in length till near the pygidium.
Pygidium short, cylindroid, abruptly truncated, bearing two pairs of slender divergent cirri, of which the dorsal is twice the length of the ventral and one-half the body width.
Parapodia (PI.
XV, figs.
24, 25, and PI.
XVI, fig.
35) exhibit the usual characteristics of the genus.
The first five are widely separated and modified, but gradually become less so from before backward.
The three cirriform processes (figs.
24 and 25) are present and moderately slender and elongated, the notocirrus the longest of the three and reaching the middle of the preceding foot in each case, the neurocirrus and the middle cirrus or postsetal lobe each from one-half to two-thirds as long on the different parapodia, the latter the stouter and flattened at the base.
Just before and after the gills appear, the notocirrus exhibits a conspicuous constriction and distortion near the base.
After the fifth parapodium the neurocirrus becomes rapidly reduced to an opake glandular ridge below the base of the parapodium which for a few segments bears at its lateral end a short blunt papilla which recedes into the ridge in the course of three or four segments.
The postsetal lobe becomes reduced rapidly and completely ; beginning with the sixth foot, it becomes shorter and blunt and continues to be changed until at the eleventh it becomes a small, blunt, rounded papilla lying ventral to the setae and almost replacing the here obsolete neurocirrus, but postacicular instead of preacicular.
Farther back (fig.
35) it totally disappears.
The notocirrus remains well-developed for the entire length, but undergoes gradual reduction in size after the appearance of the branchia?, appearing upon the largest of these as a much smaller lateral process.
The neuropodium becomes rapidly shorter and simplified as in other species.
Branchia?
(PI.
XVI, fig.
35) simple throughout, the first appearing in connection with the fourth foot (V) or more rarely with the third on IV, in the latter case being usually quite small.
They appear as the direct continuation of the base of the notocirrus, which they displace ventrally or toward the neuropodium.
The first is always much more slender than the notocirrus, but nearly as long.
By somite X the gill is three times as long as the notocirrus, and when, on middle segments, its maximum size is reached is fully four times as long and reaches well beyond the mid-dorsal line except on one specimen, on which they are strongly contracted.
All of the gills, which continue nearly to the caudal end, are coarse round filaments apparently not at all ligulate and contain two large longitudinal blood-vessels connected by a large number of semiannular transverse vessels.
Neuropoclial acicular three or four stout, tapered rods with mucronate tips projecting freely beyond the surface anteroventral to the curved series of capillary setse from which they are not sharply distinguished.
Notopodial acicula a fascicle of a few very slender and delicate fibers passing through the notopodial base and far into the notocirrus.
Setae are of five forms, all but the yellow posterior crochets being colorless.
The first five neuropodia bear a nearly complete circle enclosing the acicula, of semiarticulated, tridentate, guarded crochets (PL XV, fig.
26) and simple capillarly setae differing little from the acicula save only in their longer projecting points.
The latter increase in number and in size and in parapodia immediately following the fifth (VI) replace the crochets.
In the course of ten or twelve segments they gradually disappear.
All parapodia, beginning with the sixth, bear a curved fascicle dorsal to the postacicular lobe of delicate, nearly straight, capillary setae which, on anterior segments, are provided with a narrow limbus not discernible posteriorly.
Among the bases of these are very delicate setae ending in gouge-shaped expansions bearing eighteen or twenty regular mucronate teeth (fig.
27).
Beginning at about XVII two large and stout crochets appear antei oventral to the acicular papilla; their shafts are slightly curved and distally thickened and the little projecting ends bidentate and enclosed between a pair of guards (fig.
28).
Jaws described from a single dissection of a eotype (station 4,401).
Mandibles (PI.
XVI, fig.
36) pale brown with pure white masticatory plates, soft, the two halves only very slightly joined by the bases of the masticatory plates, the long slender stems or carriers widely separated and of nearly equal width throughout.
Masticatory plates white with a black trifid spot near the base of each, narrowly ovate quadrilateral with obscurely bidentate end.
Maxillae (fig.
37) rather soft, pale brown with certain very dark lines and thickenings as shown in the figure.
Carriers of forceps jaws" (I) only slightly united, widest at the middle, their posterior ends separated and pointed; forceps stout at base, the ends acute and strongly hooked.
Large dentinal plates (II) stout and broad, the right with nine nearly equal stout teeth, the left with six teeth, of which the first is enlarged and separated from the others by a considerable gap.
Left unpaired plate (Ha) with seven or eight teeth.
Anterior pieces (III) with a narrow, curved, toothed ridge and a large flaring basal plate or wing, the left sixor seven-toothed, the right larger, with eight teeth.
Small accessory jaws (IV) triangular, each bearing a single tooth.
Except for a small brown^spot'at the base of each notocirrus and smaller ones on the bases of the tentacles, the specimens are colorless.
The anterior ten or twelve segments of every specimen are strongly bent upwards so that the head is usually quite reversed.
Stations 4,352 (Type), off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego Bay, 549-585 fathoms, green mud ; 4,400, Lat.
32° 50' 20" N., Long.
118° 03' 30" W., 500-507 fathoms, green mud; 4,401, Lat.
32° 52' 40" N., 118° 13' 40" W., 44S-46S fathoms, green mud, black sand; 4,415, off Santa Barbara Island, 302-638 fathoms, green mud.
Nothria sp.
?
PI.
XVI, figs.
38-40.
The anterior end of a rather small Nothria 1.6 mm.
wide, probably representing another undescribed species.
It has much of the aspect of N. geophiliformis and the seta?
resemble those of that species, from all typical examples of which it differs, however, in the first appearance of the gills on VII.
The cephalic tentacles are peculiar and may be abnormal.
The median just equals the anterior or outer paired and its style is about two-fifths that of the posterior paired.
The frontal tentacles are shorter than their diameter.
All cephalic ceratophores are short and 5or 6-annulate.
No eyes.
Nuchal cirri very short, only one-third or one-fourth of the distance separating them.
Gills begin abruptly on VII, resemble those of N. holobranchia and in their full development reach to the opposite side.
Jaws not dissected.
Taken from a simple mud tube from station 4,3S7, Lat.
32° 32' 40" N., Long.
118° 04' 20" W., 1,059 fathoms, green mud.
Nothria hiatidentata sp nov. Pis.
XVI, XVII, figs.
41-50.
A very interesting species based on two specimens found in a jar of Hyalinoecia tubicola, to which species this bears a remarkably close superficial resemblance.
Indeed, in most characters except the presence of nuchal cirri this species resembles Hyalinoecia more closely than ordinary Nathrice.
It is a noteworthy case of associative resemblance.
The type is a complete example of 94 segments, 112 mm.
long, with a maximum body width at XXV of 4.8 mm.
and a depth of 4 mm.
Prostomium (PI.
XVI, fig.
41) in the strongly up-bent position in which it occurs in both specimens nearly circular, the seven tentacles radiating very regularly about its margin and as usual increasing in length from before caudad.
Frontal tentacles in contact medially on the extreme anterior border of the prostomium from which they are scarcely delimited, little divergent, nearly two-thirds as long as the prostomium, short ellipsoidal and slightly bilobate from a shallow lateral furrow.
Probably the styles of none of the dorsal tentacles are quite complete, the ends of all being more or less worn and ragged.
The ceratophores of all are short, scarcely longer than thick and divided into three or four annuli.
The styles increase in both length and diameter from before backward, the anterior paired reaching to II, the posterior paired to XII or XIII and the median to XV.
Palpi large, subgloboid, slightly bilobed processes bounding the mouth in front, in contact medially and projecting ventrad and laterally beyond the sides of the prostomium.
Peristomium reduced, scarcely half as long as the prostomium and not much wider.
Nuchal cirri (fig.
41) arising slightly behind anterior border of peristomium in line with lateral border of base of posteiior lateral tentacles, slender, tapered, not quite reaching base of one of opposite side.
Posterior lip somewhat bilobed, furrowed, its anterolateral margins continuous with mandibular cushions and not projecting freely as in many species.
Somite II much enlarged, more than twice as long as I and nearly twice as wide, strongly convex and rising beyond I on all sides and embracing it completely laterally.
Anterior region of body stout, not slender as in many species ; III and IV rapidly reduced in length, V about normal; its width about six times length.
These propoitions are maintained throughout the middle region, but the width gradually decreases posteriorly until it becomes only three times the length.
Dorsum very strongly arched, venter flat with neural groove.
Body walls firm and muscular anteriorly, softer with translucent walls posteriorly.
Caudal end tapered rather rapidly to a short tubular pygidium with expanded rim bearing a pair of very slender subanal cirri as long as the last eleven segments and one and one-third times the greatest body width.
Parapodia of anterior end much like those of Hyalinoecia (PI.
XVI, figs.
42, 43).
The first (fig.
41) much enlarged, most modified and strongly bent forward at sides of prostomium to the level of its anterior border, cylindroid or subcorneal and truncate, much and deeply furrowed, terminating in a low, rounded acicular process and two broad, flat lips, the post-acicular one being much the longer and truncate distally.
The short, simple notocirrus arises about the middle of its dorsal face and barely reaches the distal end of the neuropodium.
Neurocirrus arises on ventral side close to mouth and fails to reach the bases of the setae.
Second parapodium (III) (fig.
42) is similar but much smaller and both the post-acicular process (middle cirrus) and notocirrus are much more slender and elongated, while the neurocirrus is enlarged and bluntly conical.
The third foot is of more normal size and position and the notocirrus is still longer, reaching beyond the postacicular lobe.
But the chief change affects the neurocirrus, which is no longer truly cirriform, but merely a small, rounded, cylindroid papillae.
The fourth parapodium (fig.
43) differs only in the complete suppression of the neurocirrus.
After the fourth (somite V) the neuropodia are gradually reduced in size until they become low, compressed cones (fig.
44).
The maximum size of the post-acicular lobe is attained at about VII or VIII, after which it undergoes gradual reduction, being still distinct at XV but obsolete at XXX.
The notocirrus retains its length longer, at its maximum reaching about half-way to the middle line and exhibiting but little change until after the appearance of the gills, when it becomes rapidly reduced to a slender filament about one-third as long as the gill (fig.
44).
Behind IV the neurocirri become small, rounded glandular elevations which gradually become smaller and finally disappear.
Gills begin on XIV, though a small prophetic papillae occurs on one side of XIII of one specimen.
They arise at a brown vascular knot on the dorsal side of the base of the notopodium, which, however, is not so abruptly displaced ventrad as in Nothria pallida, though, when the cirrus reaches its greatest reduction, it appears as little more than a lateral process of the gill (fig.
44).
From the first they equal the notocirrus in length and seldom reach more than half-way to the middle line.
They have the usual form and structure but, unlike those of N. iridescens and other species, become little flattened posteriorly.
Neuropodial acicula four or five, stout, slightly curved and tapered, the simply pointed tip apparently not reaching beyond the surface on anterior parapodia.
Farther back there are three with abruptly tapered, acute, curved and often bent tips exposed for a short distance.
There are no evident notopodial acicula.
Setae are of four kinds.
Large setae on the anterior modified segments mostly broken, but several that are intact (PI.
XVI, fig.
45) are simple spines with the ends worn smooth as in Hyalincecia.
A single newly erupted smaller one on III (fig.
46) shows that they are bidentate and guarded at the tip, but apparently not articulated.
Limbate setae and pectinate setae (fig.
47) begin on the second foot, on which the type specimen bears in a dorsal fascicle several of the former and one of the latter.
Beginning with the fourth foot and continuing to the caudal end there are both dorsal and ventral small fascicles of limbate setae.
They have rather long stems and gently sigmoid, tapered and very acute ends bearing lanceolate, bilimbate blades.
They become longer posteriorly.
Delicate colorless pectinate setae (PI.
XVI, fig.
47) occur among the bases of the dorsal limbate setae from III to the caudal end and, except on the first two or three parapodia, form a dense cluster.
The ends appear to be funnel-form with about one-third of the circle cut out and the border striated and finely denticulated.
Ventral crochets begin on V, at first single and slender, but after about XV there are two or three.
Two very stout yellow ones (fig.
48) are characteristic of the middle region.
These have fibrous cores and slightly curved shafts, swelling distally, then rather abruptly contracted to the small head which is terminated by two rather long processes placed at nearly a right angle to the shaft and enclosed in a pair of narrow, subtriangular guards.
The terminal teeth become shorter on anterior segments.
Jaws described from the cotype.
Mandibles chiefry dark brown except the masticatory plates which are white with two or three very dark brown lines across the basal part (PI.
XVII, fig.
49).
The two halves are very lightly united; the stems of nearly uniform width, with slightly expanded distal ends grooved to bear the masticatory plates which are elliptical with irregularly crenulated free margins.
Maxillae (fig.
50) massive, dark brown, hard.
Carriers of forceps jaws very broad in posterior half, about one and one-fourth times length, the posterior border broadly rounded.
Forceps rather long and slender, strongly hooked with acute tips.
Maxilla II, left outer plate with nine teeth, of which the first is very large and widely separated from the second very small tooth by a wide bay fitting the anterior end of the left inner plate, which bears nine regular stout teeth ; right plate very large with ten large, somewhat hooked teeth.
Maxillae III, narrow curved pieces, the left bearing ten, the right thirteen teeth.
Maxillae IV, small plates bearing a single tooth on each side.
Color all faded out with the exception of small brown spots at the base of the gills.
Described from two specimens (of which the cotype is filled with sperm balls) both from station 4,387, off San Diego, Lat.
32° 32' 40" N., Long.
11S° 04' 20" W., 1.059 fathoms, green mud.
Onuphis parva sp.
nov. PL XVII, figs.
51-57, and PL XVIII, figs.
98, 99.
A small, slender species of linear form, the type measuring 36 mm.
long and, exclusive of the parapodia, about .6 mm.
wide, with 104 segments.
A large number of specimens are of similar size and only a very few larger, the maximum being about 45 mm.
long and .9 mm.
wide.
Sexual maturity is attained at a length of 30 mm.
Prostomium longer than usual, about one and one-quarter times as long as wide, elliptical in outline.
Frontal tentacles on ventro-anterior border, nearly their length apart, divergent, ovate in outline with a constricted pedicle, their length about two-fifths prostomium.
Anterior paired tentacles on antero-lateral border, barely reaching IV; ceratophore about one-third style, 4-annulate.
Posterior paired tentacles on dorsal face close to lateral margins and slightly in advance of middle, reaching IX or X; ceratophore slightly longer than those of anterior pair, its basal half of three distinct rings, the distal half not distinctly annulated.
Median tentacle arising at almost exact center of prostomium, constantly slightly shorter than posterior paired tentacles, reaching only to VIII or middle of VII, its ceratophore similar to that of posterior pair.
Eyes situated immediately caudad of base of posterior paired tentacles, usually two minute black specks (sometimes coalesced into one) on each side.
Palps rather prominent, ovate lobes on ventral face of prostomium, projecting slightly beyond its margins.
Peristomium similar in size and proportions to immediately followingsegments, shortest above, where it is about one-half prostomium, the latter being much more extensively exposed than in most species.
Nuchal cirri widely separated on extreme anterior border of peristomium, short conical, barely reaching to middle line or posterior border of peristomium.
Somite II neither wider nor longer than succeeding segments, not embracing peristomium and its parapodia, not obviously enlarged nor strongly bent forward.
The first three or four podous segments differ from the others only in having the walls somewhat firmer, the integuments more pigmented, in being more terete and in having the parapodia more ventral in position.
Middle and posterior segments strongly depressed, with the parapodia and especially the gills carried high, the parapodial area thick and glandular and the dorsal and ventral field flat and translucent.
They are remarkably uniform in size, but taper gradually in the posterior half.
Pygidium tubular with an obliquely truncate end having a thickened border and at the produced ventral margin a cluster of two pairs of very slender and delicate anal cirri, the dorsal about four times as long as the ventral and equal to the last seven segments.
Parapodia all small and little prominent, even the first, although slightly enlarged and somewhat modified as in other species, presenting none of the extreme modifications so often exhibited.
The first has a low presetal and a much enlarged postsetal lip, the latter being broad and flat at the base.
Both cirri arise far out and the notocirrus is tapered and reaches much beyond the end of the postsetal lobe; neurocirrus bluntly truncated and falls short of the tip of the latter.
The second (PL XVII, fig.
51) and third differ chiefly in the shorter base, shorter and broader postsetal lobe, shorter neurocirrus and successively more dorsal position.
With the fourth (fig.
52) the parapodia have about reached the dorsal position characteristic of this species and the neurocirrus has been lost in a low rounded infrapodal glandular swelling.
The postsetal lobe continues to shrink, and by XV is quite inconspicuous and little longer than the presetal lip; the neuropodium becomes a broad, low, conical eminence (fig.
53) and the notocirrus, although gradually reduced in size, remains welldeveloped to the caudal end.
Branchia?
begin on the fourth foot (somite V) of the type, but although this is the most frequent beginning small simple ones may be detected on IV or even III of some specimens; more rarely the first occurs on VI.
The first gill is simple or bifilar, the former being especially the case when they have the more anterior origin.
The single filament (PL XVII, fig.
52) is erect and forms the main trunk of the gill, along the lateral side of which the secondary filaments arise on more posterior gills.
The first few gills are no longer than the notocirri, but they increase as the latter diminish in size, the main stems often reaching to or beyond the dorsimeson.
Characteristically, they are erect or semi-erect and pectinate (fig.
53) with a maximum of about seven filaments, though the number varies from five to nine according to the size of the specimen.
On the type the last gill occurs on XXXVII.
A cotype, on which the gills are more fully extended, has the gills arranged as follows : 3 filaments on VIII, 4 on XII, 5 on XIV, 6 on XV, 7 on XX-XXVlf, 6 on XXVUI and XXIX, 5 on XXX, 4 on XXXI and XXXII, 3 on XXXIII, 2 on XXXIV, and one on XXXVI.
This is about the usual distribution.
Neuropodial acicula usually four, little tapered until near the end where they taper abruptly to a slender exposed mucron, the longer of which project nearly to the border of the postsetal lobe.
Farther back they become fewer.
Notopodial acicula delicate fibers passingfar into the notocirri.
Seta?
all colorless.
Setse of first parapodium (PL XVII, fig.
54) exclusively (except perhaps the dorsalmost) semicompound, bidentate and guarded crochets with the articulation very imperfect and the guards much prolonged and very acute.
None of these setae is much enlarged and the dorsalmost is very slender and acute and may lack the hooked and bifid tip.
The second and third parapodia have a few similar setae in the anterior part of the fascicles, together with a few simple acute setae in the dorsal part.
On the fourth foot all setae are of the latter type.
Toward the distal end they become somewhat enlarged and minutely pilose, but not truly limbate and then taper to an acute tip.
On the fourth parapodium there are only seven of these setae, four being anterior and three dorsal, the latter more slender.
Simple setae of this type appear on all subsequent parapodia, but after a few segments are limited to a small dorsal fascicle of two to four and gradually become more slender and elongated toward the caudal end.
Pectinate setae (fig.
55) first detected on IX and present on all following segments as a small dorsal tuft of three to six.
They are extremely delicate and have slightly curved asymmetrically expanded ends with the margin distinctly denticulated.
Two large ventral crochets (fig.
56) appear on X, but become larger and more exposed farther back.
They are peculiar in the length of the beak and small size of the accessory tooth and the somewhat unusual width of the guards.
Toward the caudal end they become much smaller and one has the teeth reduced and the other more or less straightened out and the guards are frequently absent (fig.
57).
Jaws (PI.
XVIII, figs.
98-99) pale brown or yellow, translucent, soft, and flexible.
Mandibles very delicate, the carriers slender, widening very little distally, feebly united, the masticatory plate narrowly elliptical, prolonged forward, a small tooth on the medial side.
Maxillae (fig.
99) with acute, strongly hooked forceps jaws, the carriers about two-thirds as wide as long, each half prolonged into a slender posterior process.
Maxillae II broad plates, the left outer with eight or nine teeth, the inner with seven or eight, the right with nine or ten larger teeth ; III, left five or six teeth, right seven or eight teeth ; IV rudimentary, edentulous.
Nearly all of those examined are practically colorless, the anterior end more opake and iridescent.
Some examples from station 4,454 have the cephalic appendages dark or black and conspicuous quadrate blotches of black scattered over all parts of the body both dorsally and ventrally and on parts enclosed by the tubes as well as parts exposed.
Tubes generally about 45 mm.
long and 2 mm.
to 2.3 mm.
in diameter, tapering off at one end to a thin membraneous portion.
The thicker 18 portions are composed mainly of fine silt, but sometimes with a few sand grains or minute pebbles.
This appears to be an abundant species, and were it not for its small size would doubtless have been collected at many more stations.
It was especially abundant at stations 4,467 and 4,468, where several hundred tubes were taken, and at 4,475, where about fifty were obtained.
Stations 4,445, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 60-66 fathoms, green mud ; 4,446, same locality, 52-59 fathoms, green mud (type) ; 4,452, 4,453, 4,454, same locality, 49-71 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,467, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud; 4,468, same locality, fine sand; 4,475, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 58-142 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,485, same locality, 89-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,510, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 91-184 fathoms, gray mud; 4,522, same locality, 130-149 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,523, same locality, 75-108 fathoms, soft dark mud.
Onuphis vexillaria sp.
nov. PI.
XVII, figs.
69-76.
A slender, elongated and very distinct species described from a single anterior end and four other pieces which are believed to form a single specimen, complete except for the caudal end.
The aggregate length is 159 mm., the width without parapodia 3 mm.
and including them 4.2 mm.
in the middle region ; and the total number of segments 242.
Prostomium small, nearly circular, with a slight posterior emargination, convex, its surface largely occupied by the bases of the tentacles, which are arranged in the form of an ellipse.
Frontal tentacles short, thick and ovate, about one-half length of prostomium, short pedunculate, divergent and separated by a space exceeding their diameter.
A pah" of minute eye-spots at the medial side of their bases.
Dorsal tentacles all with annulated ceratophores and slender smooth styles.
Anterior pah* reach to middle of III, the style three times the length of the ceratophore which has seven articulations.
Posterior pair reaching X, the ceratophore as long as the anterior but with a smooth distal part in addition to seven articulations.
Median reaching VIII with much shorter ceratophore of six annuli.
Palps immediately anterior to mouth, strongly divergent, stouter and somewhat longer than frontal tentacles and divided by a shallow cross-furrow.
Peristomium narrow, continuing outline of prostomium in a regular dome-like curve, but separated by a well-defined dorsal furrow.
It is produced somewhat forward to embrace the .prostomium at the sides and dorsally slightly overlaps it as a low, somewhat convex nuchal collar.
Ventrally it is cut almost to the posterior furrow by the large mouth, which is partly covered by a broad lip with laterally produced angles.
Nuchal cirri slender, tapered, simple, rising high up at the level of the inner lateral tentacles from the extreme anterior margin of the prostomium and separated by one-half their length.
They reach to the caudal border of II or well beyond the anterior border of the prostomium.
Anterior metastomial region slender and nearly terete, the first five podous segments of nearly equal length and width, the ratio being about as two to two and one-half, the greatest width being at the anterior end where the parapodia arise.
After VII the segments, become gradually wider and rather abruptly shorter until by XX they are about five times as wide as long and distinctly depressed with the dorsum flattened.
This depressed form continues throughout the middle and posterior region.
Furrows generally rather weakly developed except between the parapodia.
Integuments rather soft, semitranslucent and grayish except in the subparapodial region, where there are thick, opake, whitish glandular areas; surface very smooth with highly iridescent cuticle.
Pygidium unknown.
Parapodia of anterior end prominent, beginning on II near the ventral level and gradually shifting dorsad until by XV they have attained nearly the dorsal level.
Anterior parapodia (PI.
XVII, figs.
69 and 70) are remarkable for the great length of their parts.
The first is situated at the extreme anterior end of somite II and is directed only slightly forward.
Succeeding ones shift to a more caudal position and lose the forward slope until the sixth is on the middle of its segment and the third is directed straight laterad.
They have a rather long pedicle bearing a notocirrus, neurocirrus and slender neuropodial setigerous lobe divided at the distal end into a scarcely perceptible presetal lip and a remarkably prolonged, attenuate cirriform postsetal lip.
Neurocirrus arises near the base of the ventral surface and is of similar form and nearly equal length to the postsetal cirrus.
Notocirrus arises dorsally nearly opposite to the neurocirrus from a thickened notopodial pedicle, into which the acicula enter, followed by a constriction and again by a swelling tapering into a longslender style one and one-half to twice the length of the neurocirrus, and the longest exceeding the diameter of the anterior segments.
(figs.
69 and 70).
Little change takes place in the first five parapodia, but with the sixth the whole parapodium begins to diminish in size, the neurocirrus especially dwindling until by the ninth the entire style has disappeared and the base is represented only by the usual opake, somewhat swollen, whitish area ventral to the base of the foot, which becomes smaller but continues to the caudal end.
The postsetal lip becomes smaller very gradually, but remains to the middle segments as a small conical process.
Except that it becomes more slender and assumes the proportions of a gill filament, the notocirrus undergoes little change (fig.
71).
Branchia?
appear on both sides of somite V (fig.
70) as a single filament as long, but much more slender than the postsetal cirrus, arising from the notopodial base in common with and on the dorsal side of the notocirrus.
On succeeding segments the filament becomes long and on IX a second appears; additional ones then appearing (symmetrically except as mentioned) up to the number of nine, as follows: three on XIII (XIV on right), four on XVI, five on XIX, six on XX, seven on XXI, eight on XXVII and nine at about XXXV.
The last number (fig.
71) continues to at least L. The largest gills on pieces from the middle of the body, the segment numbers being undetermined, bear as many as twelve filaments and the most caudal segments represented bear unifilar gills.
Until they possess upward of four filaments, the gills scarcely exhibit a main stem or pinniform structure which is always obvious on the more complex gills.
The main stem curves rather sharply dorsad, tapering, and bearing along its lateral side the filaments, which diminish in size to the last.
On anterior segments the filaments are shorter than the notocirrus, but farther back they are longer.
New ones appear to be added from the growingpoint at the tip of the stem.
Branch blood-vessels from the main trunk enter all of the filaments.
Neuropodial acicula, which on anterior parapodia are not very clearly distinguished from the setse, are from three to five in a row, rather stout, tapered gently to near the end and then abruptly into slender, very acute projecting tips, appearing at the bases of the dorsal seta?.
Notopodial acicula are very long and slender fibers which enter the base of the notopodium and continue far into the cirrus (fig.
71).
Perhaps they would be more correctly described as buried setse.
Except the large ventral crochets, all seta?
are colorless or nearly so.
All segments bear a small tuft of slender, acute, capillary seta?
dorsal to the acicula, among the bases of which are a very few much more delicate and inconspicuous asymmetrical pectinate setae with one margin prolonged (fig.
73).
The first five parapodia bear in the anterior and ventral part of the fascicle a few larger seta?
or hooded crochets (fig.
72) with two accessory teeth below the principal hook and the guards but little prolonged.
Some of the larger ones show traces of an articulation near the end.
Parapodia succeeding these have the crochets replaced by short setae with mucronate tips and narrow limbae.
These gradually disappear and no trace of them remains at XXV.
Somewhere between this point and somite L, the exact segment undetermined, appear two stout yellow bidentate guarded crochets (fig.
74) projecting slightly and obliquely from below the acicula.
The jaws are imperfectly chitinized, being soft and delicate and except at a few thickened points, pale brown.
Mandibles probably abnormal, very small, the form of one half being shown in two pieces in (PI.
XVII, fig.
75).
Maxillae (fig.
76) have long, acute, strongly curved forceps jaws with nearly circular carriers.
The two plates of II on the left side have, respectively, six and seven teeth, on the right side eight or nine teeth.
Plate III of each side bears an unusually large basal wing and six small teeth ; IV is small and bears a single tooth.
No color remains. '
This species is known only from the type and a small portion of the middle region of another specimen from station 4,401.
Stations 4,326, Soledad Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity San Diego; 243-280 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,401, Lat.
32° 52' 40" N., Long.
118° 13' 40" W., 44S-468 fathoms, green mud and black sand.
Onuphis nebulosa sp.
nov. PI.
XVII, figs.
58-68.
This species has the anterior end slender with prominently outstanding parapodia, the remainder of the body, so far as known, depressed and of very uniform width and the small gills beginning on VIII or IX.
The type, consisting of the prostomium and 83 anterior segments, is 25 mm.
long and has a maximum width, exclusive of the parapodia, of 1.3 mm.
Prostomium about four-fifths as long as wide, elliptical with an anterior median emaigination, strongly convex above.
No eyes detected.
Frontal tentacles ovate, about One-third longer than wide and about half as long as the prostomium, arising on the frontal border of prostomium separated by a space of one-half their diameter and bent strongly downward.
Anterior paired tentacles arise from anterolateral border immediately behind frontal tentacles; their ceratophores 27C proceed:: v the academy of [April, about equal to frontal tentacles, quadri-annulate : styles two and one-half times as long as ceratophores and reaching to middle of II.
sterior paired tentacles arise on the dorsal surface opposite the middle of the prosl mium and just within its lateral borders: ceratoph nil r t th -r of the anterior pair: styles reach somite VII or YIII.
Median tentacle behind center of prostomiuni.
similar to posterior paired tentacles, but somewhat shorter, reaching only to VI or VII.
Pal; shion-like, arising from posterior ventral surface I se to mouth, diverging from median line, the broadly rounded ends projecting beyond th of the prostomium.
Peristomium very short above, in the median line only about one-half as long as the prostomium.
nearly twice as long at the sides and carried forward to embrace the prostomium.
the cephalic margin as a consequence being deeply concave.
Yentrally it forms the usual bilobed lip.
which is quite distinct from II.
Xuchal cirri arise from :eme anterior border of peristomium in line with the posterior paired tentacles and separated by a distance of twice their length, very slender and tapered.
Somites II and III equal and elongated, each 3 long prostomium and peristomium combined but no wider than the latter.
Both are simple segments, widest anteriorly.
Behind III the segments gradually increase in width and decrease in length to X. from which they remain nearly uniform for the length of the piece, being quite simple and about five times as wide as long : dorsally they are flat, ventrally strongly convex, the parapodia arising high up.
Furrows well-marked and clean-cut and the cuticle very smooth and highly iridescent.
Anterior parapodia (PL XVII, figg 58 and 59; elongated and rather slender, prominently outstanding and fully equalling the width of their somites, from the anterior ends of which they arise.
The first are dire mewhat forward, but little more than those 0. verQlaria.
From the ventral level of the first they gradually rise until the dorsal level is attained by the eighth.
No important differnoticeable among the 6 si seven or eight.
All have the somewhat prolong!
slightly flattened, neuropodial body terminated by j.ort and broadly roimded presetal lip and a moderately prolonged ?tsetal lip decidedly flattened at the base.
Xotocirri and neurocirri clavate, with thickened bases and more slender distal parts ending bluntly; the former are longer than the postsetal lips and more rid below their thickened bases, borne on a slightly connot odial base: the neurocirri more proximal in origin and equal * -horter than the postsetal lip.
At the eighth foot the neurocirrus begins to undergo rapid reduction, and by the eleventh its conical form and cirrus character are lost and it has assumed the form of a low.
smooth, rounded, opake and whitish swelling, which increases in size to :.
y\~.
XXV and then diminish sg Though it remains -mall whitish spot even at the end of the piece.
The postsetal lobe retains its character longer.
unde:_ _ gradual i eduction after X and shifting more ventrad.
Even ar.
XX it is as long as the body of the parapodium and of a short conical or subtriangular form.
At L (fig.
60) it is a minute blunt papilla, ventrocaudad of the sel and farther back disappears altogether.
Xotocirri become more slender, but retain their length, continuing reach the middle lir r back at leasl 3 Hh ighty-ninth segmt In the middle region the bodies of the parapo-:.
reduced and hat compressed and bluntly rounded, and are situated near the level of the dorsum.
n the three specimens known the gills begin single filame: its on somites YIII or IX and never r ssess more than four filame: its and that number only rarely.
Two filame: its pear at from XXII to XXVI.
three at from XXXIII to XL and continue toLVI or LXLX where the number is reduced to two again and a atm es :o the end of the several pieces Not infrequent:; segment 1 _:11 on one or both sides and frequently the number of filamenTis below the normal of the region.
The gills, though of few filame^:s are typically pinnate (fig ; aid the filaments rather thick and sh the longest very constantly reaching just : he median line.
They arise on the dorsal side of the notocirri on a common notopodial base.
Acicula of anterior neuropodi s .illy three, yellow r si pered.
gently cirrved and terminated by long freely p: ing mucron tips.
On posterior neirropodia there are often only r : which like the anterior ones except that they abruptly bent near the distal end.
Notopodial acicula are three or four delie fibers which enter the base of the notocirrv.s.
Setae are of vitct -:ructure and all more or less yellow, the more slender ones being very pale, the si nes The usual four kinds occur, but they present greater variati ind more transi:: forms than usual.
Articulated crochets ^Pl.
XVII.
figs.
61, 62 are confined to the first eight parapodia.
On the first three they occur in an irregular, open, vertical, preacicular series of three j\ one or two on the acicular tubercle beneath the aciculum and on-.
acicular — about six or seven in all.
On the fourth :': :■: V :iioseinthe dorsal::, st | art .
: the :..scicle are :.
-.
: le acute sel a,t least one compound crochet persists to the eighth foot and three to the seventh.
They are rather slender, with well-developed articulation and distal pieces that vary much in length (figs.
61 and 62) the longest being dorsal, the shortest ventral.
They end in a slender, acute, strongly hooked tip, beneath which are two prominent and acute spurs, the whole enclosed in a split guard closely fitting the terminal hook and scarcely prolonged beyond it.
Simple, acute setae are represented by one or two small ones on the first and second parapodia, but are not clearly distinguished from the acicula, above and behind which they lie.
Farther back they become more numerous, longer, much more slender, and finally even the very narrow limbus that they present anteriorly disappears.
On posterior parapodia the fascicle is composed exclusively of six or eight setae of this type.
In the subacicular region the articulated crochets are replaced by short, rather broad, acute setae, more or less distinctly articulated (fig.
63).
Such setae continue to between somites XV and XX.
The larger articulated crochet which appears in the acicular process of anterior parapodia seems to persist, become stouter, lose its articulation and gradually its terminal hook (fig.
65), thus becoming converted into a simple bidentate hooded crochet similar to those occurring on posterior segments.
This transition is well shown up to somite XV of the mounted cotype.
Apparently, however, there is a gap between the last of these and the first of the posterior simple crochets, two of which appear together ventral to the acicula at about somite XX of these specimens.
Unlike the anterior crochets, they project only slightly.
They are deep yellow, stout, bifid, with the main tooth below and have the end enclosed in the usual cleft hood (fig.
66).
Pectinate setae (fig.
64) occur in the dorsal fascicle of most segments, but their exact distribution was not determined.
They are very delicate, with the widened end very little curved and bearing only a small number of rather long processes.
Jaws described from a single dissection.
Mandibles (fig.
67) soft and thin, the carriers nearly colorless with a black streak distally, narrow, of nearly uniform diameter, lightly united at the distal end; masticatory plates white, irregularly trapezoidal, each divided by a deep anterior notch into two large teeth, each of which is again notched.
Maxillae (fig.
68) thin, very pale brown with narrow deep brown marginal lines and thickenings; carriers of forceps-jaws as wide as long, shield-shaped, with straight transverse hinge line; basal half of forceps thickened, distal slender, regularly tapered, moderately curved and acute.
Maxillae II large, subtriangular plates, each of the three bearing ten (or the outer left, nine) small, regular close teeth.
Maxillae III curved, ridge-like pieces, the left with six, the right with eight small teeth.
Maxillae IV very small, edentulous.
Color generally dull olive-gray, becoming purplish and more iridescent anteriorly, except on the parapodia and cephalic appendages.
Dorsum and to a less extent the sides obscurely clouded, or on one specimen distinctly mottled with dusky.
Except on the first ten or twelve segments, there is a more or less distinct double dorsal median dark brown line showing a tendency to break into metameric spots.
A series of dorso-lateral spots above the parapodia.
Like so many of the species taken at the same station, the surface is marked with strictly quadrate spots scattered over the head and its appendages, parapodia and body segments.
A complete tube is 152 mm.
long and has an external diameter of 2.5 to 3 mm.
Its foundation is a rather tough membraneous lining intermediate in character to that of ordinary Nothria and Hyalinoecia tubes and having a diameter of 1.4 mm.
The tubes are very fragile and covered externally with a thick but irregular layer of sand grains and small pebbles.
Many of them bear a few rather large pebbles, especially near the lower end, where they probably serve as anchors.
One js peculiar in the development at one end of an expanded disk, from the margins of which radiate irregularly a number of hollow fibers or minute tubes probably the work of another than the rightful occupant.
Thirty tubes and three worms were taken at the only station, 4,454, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 65-71 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel.
Diopatra ornata spnov. PI.
XVIII, figs.
77-85.
So far as known, this species is below the size usual in the genus, but all of the four specimens are incomplete.
The type and most complete one is in three pieces, having an aggregate length of 84 mm.
and 121 segments.
Maximum width (at XX) of body only 3 mm., between tips of parapodia 4 mm.
; depth 1.8 mm.
As viewed antero-dorsally, the prostomium is nearly circular, being bent downward with a nearly vertical flattened frontal face, the seven tentacles almost in contact at their bases, radiating regularly from a point anterior to the center of the prostomium, the flattened circle enclosed by their bases scarcely exceeding the sectional area of any one of the tentacles, while the region posterior to the tentacles is strongly convex.
Frontal tentacles almost in contact on anterior margin, about as long as prostomium, conical, obscurely annulated.
Anterior paired tentacles situated slightly dorsal to margin, immediately behind and almost in contact with frontal tentacles, reaching to VII or VIII; the ceratophores slightly longer than frontal tentacles, divided to the end into eight or ten annuli; the styles smooth and slender.
Posterior paired tentacles on dorsum well back from margin and immediately above and behind anterior paired, reaching to XV or XVI; ceratophores shorter and stouter than anterior paired, nineto eleven-annulate.
Median tentacle posterior to middle of prostomium, reaching XIV, with a shorter ceratophore having nine annuli.
Apparently all of the tentacles have lost a short portion of the tip and each one is marked by a more or less distinct broad purple zone.
Palps prominent, divergent and directed ventrad, bilobed by a shallow transverse furrow.
No eyes detected and pigmented eyes certainly absent.
Peristomium nearly as long as prostomium, its anterior end scarcely wider, little concave and its sides continuous with prostomium, its dorsum strongly convex.
Nuchal cirri on anterior margin of peristomium, slightly longer than piostomium and reaching two-thirds or threefourths to base of opposite cirrus, regularly tapered from base to tip, often with a purple spot.
Ventrally the peristomium forms a pair of thick folds behind the palps and a bilobed hinder lip.
The next two segments, each about as long as peristomium, slightly carried forward at sides to bear parapodia and embrace the preceding segment, but not conspicuously enlarged.
Succeeding segments become slightly wider to about XV, after which they remain practically unchanged.
Those of middle region about four times as wide as long, smooth, simple, rather strongly depressed.
Pygidium unknown.
Parapodia of the prebranchial region (Pi.
XVIII, fig.
77) large and prominent, the undivided body alone of the first three exceeding one-half the width of their segments, projecting somewhat forward from the anterior ventro-lateral region of their segments.
They have stout, slightly compressed, subtruncate, crossfurrowed, chiefly neuropodial bodies and the usual notocirrus, neurocirrus and postsetal lobe or middle cirrus, all of which are rather stout and subcorneal, the postsetal lobe being somewhat flattened and the notocirrus about one and one-half times as long as the others, with a basal constriction.
The fourth foot (on somite V) is similar to the three preceding ones, but decidedly smaller.
With the fifth a considerable reduction in size takes place and the parapodia have approached the dorsum, at which level all succeeding ones remain, the body becoming at the same time much reduced, short, truncate, subcorneal and directed somewhat dorsad.
At the fifth parapodium the neurocirrus becomes much shorter and bluntly rounded at the apex ; at the sixth it is replaced by an oval glandular swelling, which increases in area but becomes less elevated for six or seven segments and then undergoes gradual reduction in the post-branchial region.
After the appearance of the gills on VI the notocirrus also undergoes reduction, but so gradually that a small cirrus is still present on the one hundred and twenty-first segment.
The postsetal lobe becomes smaller simultaneously with the notocirrus, but much more rapidly, soon becoming minute and shifting to a postsetal position and practically disappearing by the end of the branchial region.
Gills begin on somite VI and continue to XLIX to LI I on the several specimens.
They arise on the dorsal side of the base of the parapodia by a stout base, on the ventral or lateral side of which the neurocirrus is borne (PL XVIII, fig.
78).
Several anterior pairs are very large, the second in all cases exceeding all of the others and reaching quite to the tip of the notocirrus of the opposite side, the first being about seven-eighths and the third about three-fourths or more as long as the second.
Succeeding ones diminish in length, at first rapidly, then slowly, the eighth equalling the body width, the twenty-first reaching the middle line, the forty-first being only as long as the notocirrus.
Anterior gills are tall and slender when fully extended, being shaped much like Lombardy poplar trees.
The trunks have stout, feebly annulated bases above which they taper and are spirally twisted, bearing numerous, rather short spirally arranged filaments which become smaller distally.
This spiral arrangement of the gills persists to at least XXXV, the number of turns varying with the length of the gill, the second and longest having twelve.
Beyond somite XXXV, the trunks have become so short and the filaments so crowded that the appearance is brush-like.
At XL there are only three short filaments, and the last seven gills consist of a single filament, each of which gradually diminishes in length.
Neuropodial acicula three or four, tapered, curved, terminating in acute tips projecting beyond the end of the acicular process.
Notopodials one or two delicate rods or a bundle of fibers.
Setee of the first four parapodia (II-V) chiefly compound crochets (PI.
XVIII, 79 and 80) arranged in a loose vertical preacicular series of about six or eight, of which one, much stouter than the others, is subacicular and one more slender postacicular.
The latter (fig.
80) has the appendage considerably longer than the rest.
All have the articulation well-developed, the end very strongly hooked and provided with a prominent accessory spur and well-developed guard, the end of which is somewhat obliquely prolonged.
On at least the first branchiate parapodium a few semicompound, sometimes acute (fig.
81), sometimes obscurely hooked setae persist, but give place to true acute simple setse on subsequent segments.
A few short, simple seta?
occur in the dorsal part of the supra-acicular region of the first foot, and they soon form a well-marked, curved, horizontal series dorsal to the acicular process.
These setse are slender with a very narrow limbus.
On anterior branchiate parapodia, beginning with VI and continuing to about XXX is a vertical row of five or six short, stouter, thickened, but alimbate setse forming a vertical preacicular fascicle.
These disappear as the gills become short and the stout ventral crochets appear, leaving only the dorsal group of acute setse, which become longer.
Beginning somewhere between VI and X, and at first few in number, but increasing to a compact tuft clustered among the dorsal acute setse and persisting with them to the end of the worm, are delicate gouge-shaped setse with finely pectinate border (fig.
82).
A stout yellow crochet (fig.
83) appears below the acicula at about XXX and a few segments behind is joined by a second; they have a strongbeak, short, thick accessory tooth and a pair of small guards.
Mandibles dark brown with pale masticatory plates.
Stems rather broad, of nearly uniform width, the distal end scarcely widened, the two sides very slightly united by a slender and short isthmus.
Masticatory plates small, transversely elliptical, scarcely toothed (fig.
84).
Maxillae (fig.
85) dark brown, massive, opake.
Forceps jaws (I) massive, the carriers broad, together nearly orbicular with a flexible median joint and a posterior median notch; hinge line short; forceps with basal half thick, tapered to the incurved subacute ends.
Maxillse II broad, triangular, the cotype figured with the inner left plate absent, the remaining pair nearly symmetrical, the left with seven, the right with eight teeth, the most anterior in each case being larger than the others.
The type has the normal arrangement of two pieces on the left side and one on the right, each bearing seven teeth like those figured.
Maxilla III large curved plates usually with eight unequal teeth on each side.
Maxilla IV small plates bearing a single small tooth.
Color general^ faded to a dull gray, the anterior end slightly purplish and purple zones on the cephalic tentacles and spots at the base of the nuchal cirri.
Cuticle slightly iridescent.
Some fragments of the exposed ends of tubes have the usual structure, with a tough, parchment-like basis thickly covered with pebbles, bits of shells, coral and other hard bodies mostly arranged transversely.
They closely resemble the tubes of Diopatra cwprea, but are scarcely more than one-half their diameter.
Stations 4,457 (tubes only), off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud ; 4,467, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud; 4,519, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 27-35 fathoms, hard gray sand (type).
■ Hyalinoecia juvenalis sp.
nov. PI XVIII, figs.
86-95.
A small species represented by the anterior ends of two individuals, which, though mature, retain certain characters of setae, etc., which are found in quite young examples only of H. tubicola.
The cotype, comprising the head and 35 segments, is 19 mm.
long and 1.9 mm.
in maximum width.
The type, of the same size, has 32 segments and a posterior regenerating cone.
Prostomium trapezoidal, the greatest width posterior and about onethird more than the length, the anterior and posterior sides convex, the converging lateral sides nearly straight.
Frontal tentacles small, less than onethird length of prostomium, situated at antero-lateral angles, directed somewhat ventrad, but little divergent, subfusiform, about twice as long as thick, the pedicles much constricted.
Median and posterior lateral tentacles situated well within posterior half of prostomium close together on dorsal face; anterior lateral tentacles farther forward on lateral margin.
Ceratophores of anterior paired tentacles about as long as thick and 4-annulate, styles thickish and stout, barely reaching III.
Ceratophores of median and posterior paired tentacles very short, obscurely divided into three annuli, the styles smooth, moderately slender, about one-half the diameter of the anterior pair, tapered, the median reaching to IX, the longest lateral to XL Eyes black, very conspicuous, immediately behind the anterior and below the posterior paired tentacles.
The type has but one pair about one-half the diameter of the base of the anterior tentacles ; the cotype bears a second pair, almost as conspicuous and immediately dorsal to the first pair.
Palps rather small, about one-third width of prostomium, globoid, directed ventrad immediately in front of mouth and only slightly in contact medially.
Peristomium small, scarcely wider than prostomium and less than one-half as long, bearing the bilobed posterior lip.
Somite II very much larger, nearly twice as wide and three times as long as the peristomium, extending forward and embracing the sides of the latter.
The next few segments diminish in length rapidly until the normal length to width ratio of one to four or five is reached at somite VI.
Beyond this point the segments continue to increase in size and the maximum diameter is probably not quite attained in these pieces.
The first few segments are firm-walled and bounded by deep furrows, but farther back they become softer and the furrows shallower.
All are nearly terete, but slightly flattened and grooved ventrally.
Pygidium a very small, short, truncate cone bearing a pair of very slender tapering cirri about one and one-fourth times the greatest diameter of the body.
Parapodia generally similar to those of larger species, but relatively less enlarged and prominent.
First pair (on II) largest, projecting forward and slightly ventrad, but barely reaching level of anterior border of palps, truncate, conical, transversely furrowed and terminated by a broad, flat, prominent, preacicular lip and a slender but about equally long, more cirriform postacicular lip.
Both notocirri and neurocirri are simple, conical styles without differentiated cirrophore and of similar form and size, not quite reaching the end of the terminal lips, the neurocirrus arising on the antero-ventral part of the base of the neuropodium close to the side of the mouth, the notocirrus nearly half-way out on the postero-dorsal aspect of the foot.
The second foot (PI.
XVIII, fig.
86) is similar, but decidedly smaller and projects very little forward and ventrad.
The third is modified still farther in these respects, and the fourth (fig.
87) has attained the typical position and nearly typical proportions and differs particularly from preceding parapodia in its much shorter, blunt neurocirrus.
The one figured (fig.
87) has the postsetal lip abnormally bifid.
On the first parapodium the postsetal lip is shorter than the presetal, but on the second this relation is reversed and the latter disparity becomes more pronounced on succeeding parapodia until at somite X the postsetal lip becomes again reduced to the length of the presetal lip and assumes the form of a small cylindroid papilla.
This continues to diminish, shifts to a more ventral position and finally disappears, leaving only the short, broadly rounded presetal lip of the low, flat parapodia of middle segments (fig.
88).
Notocirri undergo very regular and gradual diminution in size and with the appearance of the gills (about XX) have become quite minute and little longer than the presetal lip, appearing as small processes from the outer side of the base of the gills.
Neurocirri remain the same for the first three parapodia and then very abruptly become altered to a small, thick papilla, which in the course of one or two more segments becomes absorbed into a low swelling and extensive glandular region ventral to the parapodium.
On the cotype gills begin symmetrically on XIX ; on the type there is a small one on one side of XVIII, fully developed ones on both sides of XIX, none on XX and then from both sides of XXI caudad.
On both specimens they continue to increase in length gradually and probably reach their maximum size at XXIII where they about reach the dorsimeson and are five to six times the length of the dorsal cirrus, the length of which, indeed, scarcely exceeds their diameter (fig.
88).
They have the usual structure, being coarse filaments containing a large axial blood-vessel, and within the limits of the piece exhibit no indication of becoming flattened.
Neuropodial acicula pale yellow, generally three, but posteriorly only two, stout, tapered, slightly curved, the pointed apices projecting only slightly beyond the integument.
Notopodial acicula a small fascicle of fibers.
Setae of four kinds.
The first three parapodia bear a few stout, compound crochets in a vertical series.
They are especially large on the first and project freely forward.
On the second and third parapodia (fig.
89) they become smaller and paler in color.
None seem to be truly compound, but the oblique joint is imperfect and near the end.
The shaft or portion of the setae proximad of this interruption is slightly thickened in its distal portion and minutely roughened, partly with minute imbricated, antrorse scales and partly with minute hairs.
The distal piece or appendage is somewhat recurved, tapered to the peculiarly formed bidentate tip, which is enclosed in a pair of broad obliquely truncate guards.
It is possible that larger specimens (should such occur) would lose some of these characters through wear.
Beginning on the fourth foot (V), the compound crochets (one or two of which may remain, though there are none on these specimens) are replaced by simple setae which are characterized by a finely roughened enlargement beyond which they taper to an acute curved tip.
Farther back these setae are partly reduced in size, but chiefly transformed into small supra-acicular and subacicular fascicles of simple setae with broadly bilimbate, lanceolate blades (fig.
91).
Associated with these setae in the dorsal fascicle, beginning on the second foot is a dense tuft of very delicate pectinate setae, the abruptly widened end of which (fig.
92) is bent into semicircular form and bears about thirty regular and equal teeth and mucrons.
On posterior segments they become much wider and flatter.
Beginning at about somite XX, two stout, yellow, slightly clavate, bluntly rounded bidentate and guarded crochets appear in the subacicular fascicle of each crochet (fig.
90).
Jaws thin and fragile, but hard and well-chitinized.
Mandibles (figs.
93 and 94) pale brown, with some dark streaks, the stems regularly tapered, slightly enlarged at the distal end where the two are feebly united.
Masticatory plates white and hard, slender, ovate, with smooth or slightly wavy margins, borne in a distal depression of the stem which projects beyond the masticatory plate on the lateral side as a blunt tooth.
The mandibles of the type are much larger than those of the cotype, though the two worms differ but little in size.
Maxilla?
(fig.
95) pale brown, the teeth and other thickened parts darker.
Carriers of forceps-jaws (I) broad, together about four-fifths length, subquadrate, with a short, blunt projection at the posterolateral angle; the forceps with basal half broad and nearly straight, the distal half slender, tapered and not very strongly hooked.
Maxillse II, outer left plate with thirteen large and one or more very small posterior teeth, inner left with twelve teeth, right plate with fourteen or sixteen or even more teeth.
Maxillse III, left with seven to nine small teeth, right with about ten teeth.
Maxilla IV, delicate, with one small tooth or none.
Generally pale or colorless, a small, indefinite, median dorsal, purple spot on anterior dorsal part of prostomium, a pair of small ventral spots below outer lateral tentacles, small brown spots at base of notocirri and a few dark speckles on anterior segments.
Cuticle only slightly iridescent.
A probably incomplete tube is 65 mm.
long, slightly curved and tapered, the large end being 2.5 mm., the smaller 2.2 mm.
The surface is rougher than that of small tubes of H. tubicola and the ambulations are 2 mm.
apart and obscure.
Although translucent and nearly free of incrustations, it is not possible to determine the character of the valves.
An empty tube has living within it a small polynoid, not yet removed for examination, and, completely closing the larger orifice so that the annelid could not leave, is a small hermit crab (Eupagurus or Parapagurus) with very unequal chela, the right being much the larger and forming a symmetrical plug beautifully adapted to the form and size of the tube.
Type and only station 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom.
Hyalinoecia tubicola (Miiller) MalmgTeri, striota subsp.
nov. PI.
XVIII, figs.
96, 97.
Hyalinoecia tubicola Malmgren, Of versigt Kongl.
Vetens-Akad.
Forh., XXIV (1867), 181, 2, Taf.
IX, fig.
49.
This is a form of large size, as indicated by the measurements of the tubes given below, somewhat exceeding H. artijex Verrill.
In many respects it resembles H. t. longibranchiata Mcintosh, fiom the vicinity of New Zealand, but has no eyes.
Ceratophores of cephalic tentacles, either not annulated or obscurely 3or 4-annulate.
Anterior paired tentacle reaches IV or V, posterior paired XIII to XVII on different specimens, and median tentacle usually to XX.
Somite II is much enlarged, being fully double the length of the peristomium, and its very large stout parapodia bear three or four stout spines which reach quite to the anterior level of the prostomium.
Neurocirri of the first parapodium lie close to the sides of the mouth; they diminish in size after the third foot (IV) and become obsolete after VII.
On different specimens the gills begin on from XXVI to XXX and at their maximum development reach about threefourths of the width of the dorsum.
They continue to the twelfth segment preceding the pygidium, becoming rapidly reduced in size toward the caudal end.
Pygidium ending in a furrowed circumanal ring directed dorsad and bearing a pair of subanal cirri arising in contact, fiagelliform, very slender and as long as the last eleven segments or twice diameter of body.
The distinctive features of the subspecies are found mainly in the large posterior crochets and the jaws.
The former (PI.
XVIII, fig.
97) have the terminal teeth continued nearly in the direction of the shaft and not placed at a considerable angle with it as in most forms.
Pectinate setae have the plates bent into two-thirds of a circle with very numerous denticulations.
A young specimen (about 2 mm.
in diameter) still retains on the large spines of anterior parapodia traces of terminal teeth and guards (fig.
96).
The maxillae are long, with numerous teeth: II left side outer plate 18 teeth, inner plate 15 teeth, right side 17 teeth; III, left 9 teeth, right 10 teeth; IV rudimentary with one tooth on each side.
Mandibles have the two sides entirely distinct.
The anterior end of the body and the head are minutely speckled with pigment.
A typical example of the more than thirty tubes in the collection is 198 mm.
long, 4.5 mm.
in diameter at the small and 6 mm.
at the large end.
Others vary from 72 mm.
long and 3 mm.
in diameter to 236 mm.
long and 7 mm.
in diameter, the great majority being about 200 mm.
long.
They are gently curved and tapered and toward the larger end elliptical, not circular, in section, the diameter in the plane of curvature being slightly less, indicating a dorso-ventral depression.
The tubes have a quill-like texture, but are harder and more rigid than any quill of similar size and can be cut with a knife only with difficulty.
The maximum thickness of more than + mm.
is at the middle, where the number of layers is greatest and diminishes most toward the large end 19 where the last inch or so is rather soft and semicollapsible.
For the entire length the tube is marked with annular lines which, on a tube 198 mm.
long, are 6.5 mm.
apart at the small and end 5 mm.
apart at the large end.
These annulations are formed by the exposed edges of the successive layers of material, which are laid down on the inside and project beyond the orifice to a distance equal to that between two rings.
Thus a tube showing thirty-five rings has probably been constructed of as many successive layers of material.
Both orifices are guarded against intrusion by several sets of soft membraneous valves, usually three or four at the large end and probably as many at the small end.
These are placed in pairs consisting of a wide dorsal and a ventral flap or pocket attached obliquely to the inside of the tube in such manner that the free borders directed toward the orifice meet in the middle and thus effectually bar against entrance, while yielding readily to pressure from within.
Presumably, should a worm leave its tube it would itself be debarred from re-entering.
One small tube (110 mm.)
has the orifice ornamented with a few foraminifera shells, sea-urchin spines and small pebbles.
Evidently the tubes wear away at the small end, the worm occupying the newer parts and building extensions at the large end and at the same time removing old valves and replacing them by new pairs.
It is evident also that the length of additions decreases as the tubes become larger and that there is much individual variation in this respect.
Old tubes are always covered with a friable black incrustation, except on the newer parts at the large end, and especially adherent at the rings.
Some of them also bear growths of hydroids and an occasional barnacle (Scalpellmn proximum Pilsbry) small tunicate (Styela) or small actinian (Sagartia sp.)
Found at only one station, but there in abundance: 4.387, vicinity of San Diego, Lat.
32° 32' 40" N., Long.
118° 04' 20" W., 1^059 fathoms, green mud.
LTJMBRINEMDiE.
This is another fairly well-represented family and from the point of view of geographical distribution is interesting because, more than any other family, it resembles the fauna of the southern Pacific coast of South America.
This resemblance is seen not alone in the fact that the two regions possess two species in common, but also in the resemblance of other species which are distinct.
Ninoe gemmea sp.
nov. PI.
XIX, figs.
101-109.
Form moderately elongated, slender and terete, the anterior branchiate region wider and depressed.
A complete example (type) is 104 mm.
long with a maximum width, exclusive of parapodia, of 2.4 mm.
at XXX.
Segments 146.
Prostomium small, slightly longer than wide, distinctly depressed, subovate, continuing the outline of the anterior end of the body forward to a subacute apex, very smooth and differentiated only indistinctly from the peristomium at the sides.
The mid-dorsal portion of the pro-peristomial furrow forms a broad but shallow, semicircular or crescentic furrow, the horns of which end at a pair of small translucent spots marking the tips of the forward lateral projections of the peristomium.
It is uncertain whether or not a minute obscure papilla exists at the bottom of this nuchal furrow.
On the ventral surface is a pair of slight submarginal longitudinal grooves which meet the lateral furrows bounding the prominent quadrantshaped palps which are separated by a deep medial furrow.
No eyes.
The outline passing from the prostomium into the peristomium and body is very regular and unbroken.
Peristomium and somite II apodous, together equalling the prostomium in length; the peristomium longer at the sides, but dorsally cut into by a deep re-entering bay, reducing it to the length of II.
Ventrally they coalesce to form a deeply furrowed lip.
Segments simple, very smooth and regular, and separated by deep, even furrows, the length to width ratio varying from one to four or five at the anterior end to one to two at the posterior end, toward which their length increases both relatively and actually.
From the point of gi-eatest diameter at about XXX, the body tapers very regularly and gently to the caudal end, being for most of the length strictly terete.
Cuticle highly polished, with a pearly iridescence.
Pygidium a small, obliquely flaring ring, bearing at the sides of a small ventral platform a pair of conical cirri about as long as the diameter of the pygidium.
Parapodia strictly lateral, uniramous, with quite rudimentary notopodium.
The first few are very small, slightly compressed tubercles with obsolete presetal lip and subfoliaceous, cuneate-ovate postsetal lip as long as the body of the foot (PI.
XIX, fig.
101).
Farther back, in the branchial region, the presetal lobe becomes a hemispherical swelling, which is again lost posteriorly.
At VI, or in one case, V, the postsetal lip bifurcates, the ventral lobe remaining as before, the dorsal being cirriform and slightly longer.
On succeeding segments the latter becomes more distinct and larger than the other branchial filaments and curves somewhat dorsad into a suberect position (fig.
102).
The remainder of the postsetal lip then divides into the filaments of the digitate gill, the ventralmost filament of which retains a trace of the foliaceous condition in a small basal wing.
Otherwise the branchial filaments resemble the clorsalmost filament or cirrus, and where best developed only equal the foot in length and spread in a palmate fashion (fig.
103).
On the type there are two filaments at X, three at XIII, continuing with three or occasionally four to XLIX.
The filaments increase in length to about XL and then rapidly diminish without change in number to XLIX, at which segment the dorsal one alone remains.
It bears a small basal wing and remains quite prominent for many segments and finally after reduction to a small postsetal papilla continues to the end.
A slightly larger cotype has two branchial filaments at VIII, three at XVI, four or rarely five between XX and XLII and three from XLII to LII.
In the postbranchial region the parapodia (fig.
104) are more slender and relatively more prominent, cylindroid with the end slightly cleft into presetal and postsetal lips, the latter a subcorneal papilla.
A minute notopodial papilla at the dorsal base of the neuropodium of all segments.
Neuropodial acicula black with pale bases, usually four, slightly tapered to blunt tips which reach, but ordinarily do not project beyond, the surface.
Notopodial acicular fine fibers which pass from the segments above the parapodia strongly ventrad, curving into the notopodial tubercle.
All seta?
have black or dark brown stems and pale ends, which on the limbate setae includes the entire blade.
All setae are simple, and limbate seta?
and crochets occur together on all parapodia, the former being more numerous on anterior, the latter on posterior parapodia.
All are very brittle and, owing to the frequency with which they are broken, the exact arrangement was not determined.
At least one crochet occurs in the subacicular fascicle of III along with three or four limbate setse, of * which an equal number exist in the supraacicular fascicle.
At X there are four supra-acicular acute limbate setae, six subacicular limbate crochets and below these two more acute setae.
At XXV the numbers are respectively seven, five and one.
On posterior parapodia the usual arrangement is one acute seta and one crochet in the supra-acicular fascicle and four crochets in the subacicular fascicle.
The pointed setae (PI.
XIX, fig.
105) are of the usual bilimbate type and either simply or sigmoidly curved.
Some of those in the dorsal fascicle of anterior segments have the wings abruptly terminated and the shaft continued as a very long acute mucron.
They differ considerably in length and proportions in the same bundle and posteriorly all become much elongated and slender.
Anterior crochets (figs.
106, 106a) are transitional to the acute limbate setae, having long, slender limbate ends passing into delicate rounded hoods which enclose the small, indistinctly toothed heads.
Though gradually diminishing in length, they undergo no conspicuous change through the branchial region, but posteriorly become converted into true crochets (fig.
107) which are alimbate, somewhat stouter and have shorter, thicker ends and more inflated hoods enclosing a well-developed beaked and crested head.
Mandibles (PI.
XIX, fig.
108) delicate, flexible and nearly white, except that the tips of the masticatory plates and a pair of submedian lines are black.
Carriers or stems long and slender, separated for about the posterior two-thirds of their length, firmly united anteriorly and widened into a broad plate bearing the narrow, strongly curved continuous masticatory plate which terminates in a strongly but irregularly toothed apex.
Maxilla?
(PI.
XIX, fig.
109) deep brown, opake, the forceps jaws with long bases or carriers nearly equal to the jaws in length, together having the outline of an urn, but not united medially; hinges well-developed and the jaws very strongly and regularly curved.
The large dental plates (II) are massive, symmetrical and each provided with a series of eight regular stout teeth on the inner margin.
Maxilla?
Ill small, narrowly ovate with one large hooked tooth succeeded by a slightly curved, serrate margin.
Anterior maxillae (IV) large, with similarly serrate, medial margin, but the large tooth less welldeveloped.
A pair of long, narrow, brown, chitinized bands lie at the sides of the large dental plates.
Integuments unpigmented, but cuticle with a beautiful pearly luster.
Known from three specimens, one each from stations 4,450 (type), off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 55-60 fathoms, dark green mud ; 4,485, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,523, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 75-108 fathoms, soft dark mud.
Ninoe fusoa sp.
nov. PI.
XIX, figs.
110-118.
This species, described from a single incomplete specimen, has the general Lumbrineris build, but is stouter and more depressed than most species of the genus.
The type, consisting of two pieces together comprising 120 anterior segments, is 48 mm.
long and has a maximum width of 3.5 mm.
at somite XXV.
Prostomium (PL XIX, fig.
110) nearly an equilateral triangle with bluntly rounded apex.
A slightly elevated median dorsal field is bounded by a pair of shallow grooves which extend from near the apex to the nuchal fold where they include nearly one-half of the prostomial width between them.
At these points the prostomium is attached to the peristomium by a pair of folds having almost the form of ball-andsocket joints, separated medially by a deep nuchal pit much wider than long and covered by a nuchal fold of the peristomium.
No eyes.
Ventral surface smooth with a deep transverse fissure just anterior to the palps.
Palps subquadrate cushions separated by a median furrow, their lateral ends trilobate and partially united with the peristomial lip behind.
Immediately behind them and anterior to the lip is a small fold guarding the end of the mandible.
Peristomium and II achsetous, together not as long as the prostomium, but much wider; I slightly longer and wider than II and thickened below to form the lateral lobes of the lip.
The anterior median region of the peristomium forms a nuchal fold which roofs the nuchal pit between it and the prostomium.
When this is drawn back as in fig.
110, the posterior or peristomial face of the pit is seen to bear a vertical groove lodging a small and apparently retractile cirrus or papilla, the merest tip only of which is visible when the fold is in place.
Anterior somites in general have the dorsum strongly arched and the venter flattened.
Except for the minute, scarcely noticeable notopodial tubercles, the parapodia are uniramous.
Anteriorly they are very small and so near to the venter that they are scarcely visible from above.
After about XV they are larger and lateral, but remain nearer to the dorsal than the ventral surface.
They are short, thick, subcylindrical, somewhat thickened at the distal end, the presetal portion of which forms a hemispherical thickening.
The postsetal lip is produced dorso-distally into a small, erect finger-like cirrus or gill containing a large vascular loop.
This is fully developed on the first parapodium (III) and undergoes no marked change in the first forty segments (figs.
Ill, 112), after which it gradually diminishes in size, the thickened distal end of the foot undergoing simultaneous reduction.
Toward the end of the piece the parapodia (fig.
113) are more slender and taper to simple blunt points.
.
Neuropodial acicula are three or four, stout, slightly tapered black rods with colorless bases, the tips bluntly pointed and either not projecting or projecting only slightly beyond the surface.
Notopodial acicula obsolete, corresponding to the extreme reduction of the notopodia.
Setae moderate in number, disposed in a supra-acicular and a subacicular fascicle, the former nearly horizontal, the latter vertical in arrangement.
At somite XV there are eight in the former, fifteen in the latter, a number which is reduced posteriorly to three in each group, of which the subacicular are crochets.
All are dark brown at the base, pale or colorless distally.
Anteriorly acute setae (PL XIX, fig.
114) alone occur.
They are long, slender, narrowly bilimbate and slightly sigmoid with prolonged capillary tips.
Those in the supraacicular fascicle longer than the subacicular, but otherwise similar.
On posterior parapodia they become shorter (fig.
115).
It is impossible to ascertain from the type alone at just what segment crochets appear, but certainly none are present before somite L, and about LXX would appear to mark the point of their appearance.
They are slightly stouter than the limbate seta?, with slightly curved, not thickened stems, ending in an imperfect small head enclosed in a delicate hood (PI.
XIX, fig.
116).
Mandibles (PI.
XIX, fig.
117) rather delicate, flexible, soft, white with black or dark brown apices and parallel dark brown lines on the masticatory plates and more delicate brown lines and a heavy median dark band on the carriers.
The anterior half of the carriers is a broad solid piece, the posterior half a pair of slender slightly divergent stems.
Masticatory plate a continuous, narrow, hard, curved band bordering the free end of the carrier and obscurely toothed at the apex.
Maxillae (PI.
XIX, fig.
118) dark brown or black, opake.
Forceps jaws with base plate or carrier about two-thirds as long as jaws, ovate with a constricted anterior end and straight hinge; the jaws with stout bases and strongly curved ends.
First dental plates (II) irregular and each with only two large teeth on medial border.
They are possibly abnormal or much worn.
The next plate (III) is small and narrow with one large apical tooth, and the anterior plate (IV) is remarkably large, triangular with a single stout tooth.
Color uniform brown.
This species is imperfectly known through a single specimen taken at station 4,397, off Santa Catalina Islands, 33° 10' 15" N., 121° 42' 15" W., 2,196 to 2,228 fathoms, gray mud.
Ninoe fusca is closely related to Ninoe simpla Moore previously described from Alaskan waters.
Both have the nuchal papilla and simple unifilar gills and their setae are closely similar, but they differ much in the form of the postsetal lip of the parapodia and of the maxillae.
These two species taken in conjunction with such species of Lumbrineris as erecta and tetraura largely break down the distinction based on the presence or absence of branchiae that is usually made between the two genera.
On the other hand, their possession of the nuchal papilla segregates them from the majority of species of both genera.
The species of Lumbrineris and related genera of this region are noteworthy because of their tendency to develop prolonged branchial processes of the parapodia.
This tendency seems to be most marked in the fauna of the deeper waters of Monterey Bay and reaches its maximum in L. bifilaris.
Lumbrineris japonica v. Marenzeller, index subsp.
nov. PI.
XIX, figs.
119-127.
Lumbriconereis japonica v. Marenzeller, Denkschr.
K. Akad.
Wissensch.
(1879), XLI, pp.
137, 138, Taf .
V, fig.
3.
This well-marked form presents a superficial resemblance to L. erecta of the littoral zone of the coast of California, but its technical characters so closely ally it with L. japonica that it is regarded as belonging to that species.
The chief peculiarity is found in the noteworthy elongation of the postsetal lip of middle and posterior parapodia which is quite as pronounced as in L. erecta.
The erectness and rigidity characteristic of these processes in the latter species is here absent; they are evidently more flexible and mobile and usually directed laterad in many cases (fig.
120), reminding one of a pointing finger.
This feature does not appear on anterior parapodia, on which the postsetal lips are foliaceous, the digitiform or cirriform character usually becoming pronounced by about somite XXXV.
Articulated crochets occur as far forward as III on the type and persist to XXV; on other specimens they were not detected anterior to III, V or VIII, but continued as far as XXX, after which point simple crochets only occur.
Limbate setae may cease at LVI, as on the type, or continue to LXXV.
The form of these crochets differs somewhat from those of Japanese examples of the species.
(See PI.
XIX, figs.
124, 125.)
There is a single chitinized area on each side in connection with the maxillae, instead of two as in L. bifilaris.
The jaws (PI.
XIX, figs.
126, 127) agree very closely with v. Marenzeller's figures.
The maxillae are opake and very dark brown or nearly black, the mandibles pale brown marked with darker brown lines and the whitish masticatory plates tipped with a black edging.
The type (station 4,464) is 109 mm.
long with a maximum width at XII of 2.8 mm.
and between setae tips of 5.7 mm.
Segments 201.
Other specimens are slightly larger.
Several specimens are marked with coarse pigment spots arranged in transverse bands.
Stations 4,325, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 191-292 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,405, off San Clemen te Island, 654-704 fathoms, green mud; 4,406, off Santa Catalina Island, 650 fathoms, green mud ; 4,452, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 49-50 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark green mud; 4,467, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud.
Lumbrineris inflata sp.
nov. Pis.
XIX, XX, figs.
128-134.
A small and apparently an immature form.
At least none of the specimens contains genital products.
It presents, however, so many peculiar features that it is probably not the young of any species already described from the Pacific.
The type is 68 mm.
long, with a maximum width in the proboscis region of about 1 mm.
Segments 134.
The largest specimen is an anterior end' 1.5 mm.
in diameter.
Form linear, tapering gently to the caudal end, terete.
Prostomium thick and scarcely depressed, length equal to or slightly exceeding width, subgloboid or short ellipsoid, sides and front equally rounded, dorsum strongly convex, venter with a broad, shallow, median groove.
Eyes totally wanting.
Nuchal isthmus and pit narrow, the peristomium scarcely emarginated.
Palps simple cushions, wider than long.
Peristomium distinctly longer than II, which is also apodous, the two together equalling or slightly exceeding the prostomium in length.
Dorsally they are sharply differentiated by a distinct furrow and the peristomium is slightly emarginated at the nuchal pit; ventrally they are united to form the furrowed lip, II being produced forward and cutting into I.
Succeeding metastomial segments remarkably welldifferentiated by deep furrows and more or less biannulate or marked with a narrow, raised, whitish line; anterior segments about three times as wide as long, posterior nearly as long as wide.
Pygidium a minute, slightly widened ring bearing four short, equal, symmetrical, conical cirri.
Parapodia (PI.
XIX, figs.
128, 129) arise nearer the ventral than the dorsal surface, especially toward the ends of the body, and are of simple, uniform structure throughout.
Neuropodia slightly thickened distally, divided at the end into a very short presetal lobe and a longer, stiffly outstanding postsetal lobe about equalling the body of the neuropoclium in length.
Instead of increasing in length and becoming cirriform and highly vascular caudally, as is the case with most species of Lumbrineris inhabiting this region, the postsetal lobe, if changed at all, becomes somewhat smaller posteriorly and never shows any indication of becoming erect.
A minute papilla at the dorsal side of the base of the neuropodium represents the notopodium.
Neuropodial acicula two or three, pale brown, of the usual tapering form, the tips not appearing beyond the surface.
Notopodial acicula very delicate, their ends imbedded in a spherical opake mass.
Setae all colorless, of the usual simple limbate and hooded crochet types, the former on the first thirty to forty segments only, the latter on all segments.
The number of setae is moderate, their distibution on the type being as follows: the first foot (III) has seven limbate seta?
and two articulated crochets; X has five limbate setae in the supra-acicular fascicle and four articulated crochets and one limbate seta in the subacicular fascicle; XXV has three supra-acicular limbate setae and two subacicular crochets, of which the ventralmost is simple; middle parapodia have three or four simple crochets, with which a limbate seta may be associated as far as XL.
Other examples have a practically similar distribution, but the last compound crochet may occur at XVIII and the first simple one at XVII.
The limbate setae (PI.
XIX, fig.
130) are in no way characteristic; they are rather sharply bent, very acute and the blades narrowly lanceolate.
Crochets of anterior parapodia (PI.
XIX, fig.
131) are imperfectly compound, with an oblique articulation that divides the stem but not the hood, which is, however, adherent to the stem in such a manner as to produce a rather pronounced double inflation; the stem terminates in a high, finely divided crest.
Simple crochets (fig.
132) have a short, strongly inflated hood and a long-beaked head surmounted by a crest of fine teeth.
Jaws much like those of L. hebes Verrill.
Mandibles in one specimen rudimentary, in another (PI.
XX, fig.
133) colorless and delicate, stems long and slender, united by their anterior halves ; masticatory plates very oblique, separated by a deep anterior cleft, each when intact with a large apical and a somewhat smaller internal tooth.
Maxillae (fig.
134) dark brown, carriers of forceps jaws (I) with halves very imperfectly united, slender, a deep incision on each side in anterior third, the part posterior to which is more than twice as long as wide and acutely pointed behind; hinge well-developed; the forceps moderately stout in basal third, strongly hooked distally.
Large tooth plates (II), with stout body and large outstanding quadrate lateral wing and four or five stout teeth.
The next anterior plate (III) has an oblong, lateral supporting plate and a curved dentigerous margin, bearing three or, in one case, four teeth.
Anterior plate (IV) slightly larger than III, with ovate-quadrate supporting plate and a thick medial border bearing two stout triangular teeth.
All of the specimens are pigmentless with a delicate pale blue cuticular luster.
Stations 4,454, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 65-71 fathoms, green mud.
shells and gravel; 4,463, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,496 (type), Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock.
Lumbrineris tetraura (Schruarda) Ehlers.
Lurribriconereis tetraura Ehlers, Festschr.
K.Gesellsch.
Wissensch.Gottingen, 1901, pp.
137-139, Taf.
XVII, figs.
1-10.
A fine example of what is undoubtedly this far southern species was found among some Aracoda semimaculata.
It is 114 mm.
long and 1.6 mm.
wide at XII, the spread between the tips of the parapodia at the same place being 3 mm.
Segments 121.
Compared with Ehler's figures, the prostomium is somewhat shorter and much more broadly rounded and the postsetal lobes somewhat longer and more erect.
The segments often exhibit a faint biannulation.
Posteriorly they are somewhat depressed and the appearance of depression is considerably enhanced by the prominent outstanding parapodia which equal the width of the segments.
Pygidium a short ring bearing two pairs of cirri, of which the dorsal is somewhat shorter and thicker, the ventral slightly divergent, longer and more slender.
Crochets occur on all segments, the anterior being long and limbate with small heads, but they gradually assume the typical form which is attained by about XXXV.
A single acute seta continues to at least C. Both setse and jaws agree closely with Ehler's description, the three pairs of maxilla 1 having one, two and four teeth, respectively, and the mandible a very characteristic form.
It is to be noted, however, that Ehler states that limbate setse extend to about somite XXI only and that articulated crochets occur in the anterior seventeen segments of young worms.
Station 4,496, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 9-11 fathoms, hard sand.
Lumbrineris bifilaris Ehlers.
PI.
XX, figs.
135-142.
Lumbriconereis bifilaris Ehlers, Festsch.
K.Gesellsch.
Wissensch.Gottingen, 1901, Math.-Phys.
Kl., pp.
139-141, Taf.
XVIII, figs.
1-10.
This interesting and abundant species resembles Ehler's south Chilean species very closely in every respect except the structure of the jaws.
Ehler's figure of the latter differs in certain respects so greatly from the form usual in the genus that I have assumed that the single specimen available to him was abnormal or imperfect in these respects.
Otherwise these specimens could scarcely be regarded as cospecific with his, notwithstanding their close external similarity.
Even on this assumption there is by no means complete identity, and further study of Chilean material may necessitate subspecific or even wider separation.
A set of well-preserved jaws is represented in figures 141, 142, and several others which were dissected agree closely, the principal differences being in the occasional presence of a third large tooth in place of the first small tooth on one of the large-toothed maxillae (II) and in the variable length of the stems of the mandibles.
The peristomium of Ehler's type is decidedly more elongated than that of the Californian examples, in which the basal width equals the length.
Parapodia of the anterior, middle and posterior regions are illustrated in figures 135-137.
Those of the latter region with their two cirriform processes are very characteristic and bear a very close resemblance to Ehler's figure, which, however, is inverted.
The ventral outstanding filamentous process is postsetal and the dorsal erect one, which contains a conspicuous vascular loop, is presetal in origin.
The notopodial tubercle or rudimentary cirrus is quite distinct from the latter, but becomes obsolete on posterior segments.
Parapodia exhibiting this extreme development of the lobes are confined to the posterior third or two-fifths of the body, those in the middle region having them digitiform and only about as long as the body of the foot (fig.
136) and in this respect these specimens differ somewhat from Ehler's, in which the filiform character becomes established farther forward.
This difference, though somewhat indefinite, is quite striking and is equally true of large and small specimens alike.
The resemblance of the bidigitate parapodia of the middle region to those of L. bifurcata Mcintosh is striking and, indeed, the two species have much in common, but they diverge in the character of the posterior parapodia (fig.
137).
Although the setae (PI.
XX, figs.
138-140) in general resemble those of the type in form and distribution, in respect to the latter there are some noteworthy variations and differences.
Anterior parapodia bear both limbate setae and crochets, the latter being themselves limbate, slender and with small imperfect heads; posteriorly only true hooded crochets with short bodies and strongly hooked heads occur.
Ehlers states that crochets occur on all podous segments, the anterior being limbate and that acute limbate setae cease at LV.
On my material crochets may begin on the first foot (III), which is usual, or they may be absent for from four to twelve anterior parapodia.
This is notably the case in three specimens from station 4,523, in which the first occurs in X, XII and XIV, respectively, the first two specimens being about 5 mm., the last 3 mm.
in diameter.
On two still larger specimens 5 mm.
and 7 mm.
in diameter, from stations 4,406 and 4,402, no crochets were detected anterior to XIX and XXI, respectively.
The passage from limbate to true crochets is a gradual one, but typical crochets may usually be recognized at about the fortieth parapodium.
The last limbate seta may occur anywhere from segment XLII to segment LXXXIX, the average of fourteen specimens on which this was determined accurately being LXIV.
There is no relation between size and the position of the last acute seta, as there is in the case of the first crochet.
The variation, however, is less than would appear, for in cases where a large number of parapodia contain acute, limbate setae, the last twenty or thirty bear but one.
Few of the specimens are obviously pigmented.
Most are of a dull gray or yellowish-brown color, one having a russet ground color is marked with narrow dark brown annulations, and one lot from station 4,454, like other species from the same station, is marked with quadrate black spots.
The ground is pale slate color with cuticular iridescence.
The spots are sharply defined, always confined to one segment, though those of adjacent segments may coalesce.
They occur on both dorsal and ventral surfaces, somewhat more plentifully on the former, and apparently increase toward the middle region, leaving the ends of the body less maculated.
Individuals differ greatly in the richness of the spotting, some having very few and widely scattered spots, while on others they are numerous and often confluent; some have the prostomium unspotted, while on others it bears from one to three spots.
In all seventy-seven specimens, ranging in diameter from .8 mm.
to 7 mm., were examined, and although only a very few were complete all exhibited the characteristic alteration in the form of the parapodia from before caudad and the characteristic arrangement of the setae.
A complete specimen 155 mm.
long has 312 segments, and at the point of maximum diameter (XVII) the width is 3 mm.
(exclusive of the parapodia) and the depth 2.4 mm.
A medium-sized specimen from station 4,574 is packed with eggs.
Although taken at many stations throughout the whole range of the cruise, only a single one occurs at more than half of them and more than five specimens at 4,454, 4,548 (where thirteen occur) and 4,574 only.
The bathymetrical range is great, being from 36 to 2,182 fathoms.
Stations 4,306, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 207-497 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,322, off Point La Jolla, 110-199 fathoms, green mud and shells; 4,364, off Point Loma, 101-129 fathoms, green mud, sand and rock; 4,366, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 176-181 fathoms, green mud; 4,382, off North Coronado Island, vicinity of San Diego, 642-666 fathoms, green mud; 4,390, off Santa Catalina Islands, Lat.
33° 02' 15" N., 120° 42' W., 1,3502,182 fathoms, gray mud and fine sand; 4,402, off San Clemente Island, 542-599 fathoms, green mud; 4,406, off Santa Catalina Island, 650 fathoms, green mud; 4,416, off Santa Barbara Island, 323-44S fathoms, dark green mud and rocks; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; the following in Monterey Bay, 4,445, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 60-66 fathoms, green mud; 4,450, same, 55-60 fathoms; 4,452, same, 49-50 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,453, same, 49-51 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,454, same, 65-71 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,457, same, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud ; 4,464, same, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud ; 4,467, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud; 4,475, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 58-142 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,482, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 43-44 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,485, same, 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand ; 4,507, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 308-383 fathoms, green mud; 4,523, same, 75-108 fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,541, same, 381-633 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,548, same, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock: 4,549, same, 56-57 fathoms, same bottom; 4,550, same, 50-57 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4,556, same, 56-59 fathoms, rocks; 4,557, same, 53-54 fathoms, rocks; 4,574, off Cape Colnett, Lower California, 1 ,400 fathoms, bottom ?.
Lumbrineris minuscula nom.
nov. Lumbriconereis minuta Treadwell, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1906, p. 1171, figs.
57, 58 (nom.
preoc.
L. minuta Theel, 1S79).
Three very poorly preserved anterior ends of a species that is much like Tread well's L. minuta, but differ in several respects and especially in the great prolongation of the limbate set*, which, coupled with the fact that the specimens, and especially one male, are filled with genital products, leads to the suspicion that they are an epitokous phase of that species.
All three examples have a diameter of about 1 mm.
Prostomium relatively smaller and more slender than usual in the genus.
Eyes apparently wanting, but a small median brown spot on the dorsum of the prostomium immediately beneath the border of the nuchal fold.
Parapodia poorly preserved, but evidently small and inconspicuous, and evidently with the lips little produced, though the postsetal is somewhat the longer.
Most interesting are the setae.
From somite III to XXV all setae are of the capillary bilimbate type.
A few segments beyond XXV crochets appear and continue to the end of the pieces or beyond C. On anterior segments the limbate setae agree with Tread well's description, being long and slender, bilimbate and bent.
They number ten or twelve and the ventral four or five are longer than the others.
Farther caudad, after the crochets appear, the number of limbate setae is reduced to a single short one dorsal to the crochets and five to six ventral to them in subacicular bundle.
It is the latter that become so greatly elongated, projecting far beyond the ends of the parapodia and in one specimen equalling the diameter of the body.
They are nearly straight with greatly restricted limbae and the shaft continued into an excessively tenuous end.
Anteriorly the crochets are restricted to two in t the supra-acicular fascicle, but farther back two more are added in the subacicular fascicle.
They are little, if any, stouter than the setae, anteriorly margined for a short distance below the small head.
Within a few segments, however, they lose the margin and assume the form figured by Tread well.
While the jaws in general resemble Tread well's figure, there are some differences which it seems probable result from imperfections in Treadwell's specimen.
The maxillae are remarkably massive for so small a species.
Forceps jaws characterized by the very small base; maxillae II with five teeth on the right and four on the left side, the first tooth on each side being very large and well-separated from the others by a wide internal.
The anterior pairs of plates (III) are both very large, triangular and bear a single apical tooth.
Mandibles pale with dark tips and differing little in form from those of L. bifilaris.
Station 4,390, off Santa Catalina Islands, 33° 02' 15" N., 120° 42' W., 1,350-2,182 fathoms, gray mud and fine sand.
Aracoda gemimaculata sp.
nov. PI.
XX, figs.
143-149.
Form slender, subterete, but owing to the prominence of the parapodia appearing widened and depressed in the middle and posterior regions.
The type, in which the caudal end terminates in a small cone of regeneration, is 165 mm.
long and 2.8 mm.
wide, exclusive of the parapodia.
Segments 278.
Four other examples accompany the type.
Three small complete ones are from 52-93 mm.
long and have from 135 to 209 segments, and a larger one, lacking the caudal end, is 155 mm.
long, 2 mm.
wide and has 235 segments.
Prostomium as long or slightly longer than wide, subovate, slightly depressed, the ventral face with a slightly impressed median area bounded by a pair of parallel furrows which pass into the mouth.
Eyes four in a transverse row near the posterior border.
In the two larger specimens the eyes are obscure, especially the outer larger pair; on the smaller ones they are much more distinct and the middle always decidedly smaller.
Peristomium and succeeding achsetous segment together about as long as the prostomium, the former slightly the longer ; lip but little furrowed and palpal pads at base of prostomium scarcely evident.
Segments all simple and sharply defined, varying from four to six times as wide as long, nearly terete, but the venter slightly flattened.
Lateral or parapodial furrow slightly developed.
Pygidium a minute cylinder bearing two or four very small padlike cirri.
Parapodia (Pi.
XX, figs.
143-145) begin on III.
The anterior are very small and inconspicuous, but they increase in size and become prominent farther back.
The body is slightly flattened, cylindroid, constricted at the base and divided at the distal end by a vertical setigerous cleft into presetal and postsetal lips.
The former is short and broadly rounded on all parapodia, the latter undergoes conspicuous change.
On anterior parapodia (fig.
143) it is nearly as longas the body of the foot, moderately flattened and subtriangular, with the blunt apex directed upward and outward.
It rapidly becomes longer, thicker and cylindroid and bends dorsad (fig.
144).
Throughout the middle region it presents the appearance of a short finger crooked upward.
Still farther back, continuing to increase in length and arising more from the ventral aspect of the foot, it takes a slightly spiral turn and a suberect posture and retains this character to the caudal end (fig.
145).
On all parapodia the notopodium appears as a rather prominent but small angulated tubercle on the base of the dorsal face of the neuropodium.
Neuropodial acicula usually two or three, straight, tapered, pale, with the dark, bluntly pointed tips protruding a short distance beyond the surface.
Notopodial acicula two or three slender fibers entering the notopodial tubercle.
Setae few, from six to eight on anterior, diminishing to usually four on posterior parapodia.
All are pale yellow, acute, bilimbate, more or less sigmoidly curved and geniculate at the first bend.
The genieulum is directed dorsad and is most strongly developed on the dorsalmostjsetae which are also the longest.
On anterior parapodia the margins of the setae are smooth or nearly so (fig.
146) ; farther back the serrations become more prominent, especially on dorsal seta?, which also have a few transverse pectinae at the base of the geniculum (fig.
147).
Jaws of two specimens dissected.
Mandibles (PI.
XX, fig.
148) dense opake black, the posterior half or two-fifths narrow and somewhat tapered, separated on the two sides by a wide median space, the anterior portion abruptly twice as wide, the two halves united by an extensive suture, the exposed tips slightly divergent with finely denticulated free margins.
Maxilla?
(Plate XX, fig.
149) also dense opake black, the forceps jaws supported by a pair of small triangular carriers prolonged into tapered filaments about one and one-third times as long as the series of jaws, the forceps with massive bases and short, strongly hooked ends, the left bearing on its medial margin eight or nine stout teeth of diminishing size, the right about seven smaller teeth.
Maxillae II asymmetrical, the left short and stout with eight teeth, the right long and narrow with about thirteen teeth diminishing in size from before backward.
Ill 1 is a curved piece bearing two teeth on each side; IV is irregular with five or six unequal teeth; V is also irregular with four or five slender teeth and the most anterior (VI) is a small piece with one slender tooth and a bifid base.
A long ribbon-like band of chitin exceeding the forceps filaments in length extends caudad from the posterior maxillae ventral to the forceps carriers.
In color some are pale gray and unspotted, but three of the specimens are blotched with three dorsal series of dusky bluish spots and the peristomium is deeply pigmented above.
The cuticle is more or less iridescent.
Known only from station 4,496, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rocks.
From Aracoda cerulea Schmarda.
as redescribed by Ehlers, this species is abundantly separated, particularly through the characters of the jaws, which in fact depart materially from the form typical of the genus.
Arabella attenuata Treadwell?
Arabella attenuatalTreaidwell, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., XXIII, partflll (1906), p. 1172,[fig.
62.
A small portion of the middle of a large specimen about 3 mm.
in 1 Through an oversight maxilla III was overlooked in labeling fig.
149.
20 diameter which may belong to this species.
The parapodia bear large, semierect respiratory postsetal lobes as in A. spinifera Moore and also possess the conspicuously protruding spine and the winged and toothed setse of that species, though the latter are less distinctly geniculate.
Station 4,351, off Point Loma Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 423-488 fathoms, soft green mud.
Drilonereis faloata sp.
now PI.
XX, figs.
150-154.
A typical member of the genus known from incomplete worms only.
The type consists of an anterior piece of 188 segments, and a posterior of 41 segments, possibly belonging to the same individual, the middle region of which is wanting.
Together the pieces measure 121 mm.
long and have a maximum width of 1.2 mm.
and a depth practically the same.
Form linear, terete.
Prostomium elongated, ovate-elliptical, one and one-half or more times as long as wide, strongly depressed, the depth about two-fifths width, the greatest width being at the posterior end where the prostomium is mortised into the peristomium.
No distinct nuchal organs or longitudinal grooves and no eyes above; a shallow median longitudinal groove below.
Peristomium and II achsetous, about equal above and together about two-thirds as long as prostomium.
Peristomium broadly excavated for half its length above for the insertion of the prostomium, produced forward below to form a prominent but simple bilobed lip, not sharply differentiated from the small palps.
Body segments of nearly uniform diameter, subterete or slightly depressed, the venter very slightly flattened, very firm and wiry anteriorly, softer behind.
Segments sharply defined and very regular, simple anteriorly, biannulate behind, generally about one-half as longas wide, but exceeding this in middle region.
Close to the caudal end the segments are abruptly contracted and depressed.
Pygidium a minute ring, bearing four short, conical, equally divergent cirri.
Cuticle very smooth, polished, iridescent.
Color nearly uniform purplish-brown.
Parapodia (Pi.
XX, figs.
150, 151) are set into slight lateral depressions and project straight out.
Anteriorly (fig.
150) they are nearly as long as the segments, but gradually become smaller simultaneously with the elongation of the segments until they are only one-third as long, though near the caudal end they are again relatively longer.
All are simple, short, truncated, cylindroid, setigerous tubercles with a small dorsal steplike tubercle representing the notopodium and a somewhat ventral, papilliform postsetal lobe which is as long as the setigerous tubercle and projects straight out beyond it.
No noteworthy changes in form of the parapodia occur throughout its entire length.
True seta\are all of one form (PI.
XX.
figs.
151, 152), simple, bilimbate, sigmoid, tapered to an acute point and with a finely serrate margin and distinctly striated stem.
Those in the dorsal part of the fascicle are usually longer.
Beginning at XIII, IX or X in the several specimens, they are accompanied by a single yellow, stout, blunt, rodlike aciculum (fig.
151) which projects obliquely far beyond the surface from the ventral border of the setae bundle.
Farther back it becomes even stouter and reaches nearly or quite to the tip of the postsetal'lobe.
The most distinctive characters of the species are found in the jaws (PI.
XX, figs.
153, 154).
Mandibles rather large for the genus, black, shaped like a pair of broad snow-shoes with the tapering heels behind and united anterior to the middle by a broad chitinous band (fig.
153).
Maxillae black; forceps jaws (I) very strongly falcate and hamate with acute^tips, stout at the base with massive, quadrate masticatory plates, the inner margin of which bears only three or four distinct small teeth and some obscure crenulations.
Hinge-pieces of carriers (fig.
154) very small and strongly divergent from an irregular horizontal plate with attached fringed chitinous tendons at the united anterior ends of the long, slender, attenuated filaments, which barely exceed twice the length of the series of jaws.
Large tooth plates, narrow and nearly straight or oblong, with a supporting flange or plate running nearly their entire length and meeting at nearly a right angle in a ridge bearing a series of six or seven teeth, the first of which is enlarged and talonlike, the remainder equal, regular, acute and recurved.
Anterior to this plate on each side is a group of three small crowded tooth plates, each bearing a single, long, slender, strongly curved and very acute tooth on a V-shaped base.
These represent III, IV and V (fig.
154).
Stations 4,451, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 47-51 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,460 (type station) same locality, 55-167 fathoms, green mud and gravel.
GLYCBRID^J.
Glycera oapitata Oersted.
Glycera capitata Oersted, Gronl.
Ann.
Dorsibr., 1843, p. 44, Tab.
VII.
What is undoubtedly a variety of this species, differing in only a slight and variable degree from typical examples from the Atlantic Ocean, is not uncommon throughout this region.
The principal differences exhibited by these specimens is that the parapodia are longer with the postsetal lobes and neurocirrus much more elongated, slender and acute, and the appendages of the compound setae longer and more slender.
In all important respects, prostomium, parapodia, proboscis papillae and jaws, the resemblance is very close.
All specimens are small, the largest varying from 40 to 46 mm.
long with 98 to 109 segments and most being much smaller.
All are largest in the proboscis region and tapered to a slender posterior region.
Prostomium with eight rings beyond the enlarged base, the three terminal ones being very small.
Body segments always distinctly triannulate.
The jaws are typical and the clavate proboscis thickly covered with slender conical papillae and either eighteen or twenty longitudinal rows of larger ovate papillae, both of which are exactly like those of Atlantic specimens.
Glycera nana Johnson is very closely related to G. capitata, the principal differences being that the segments of the former are only biannulate and that the lobes of the parapodia have slightly different forms.
In this connection it should be noted that at least some of the specimens reported by me from San Diego under the name of G. nana (Proc.
A. N. 8., 1909, p. 259) are really small examples of other species.
One of these is a young G. robusta Ehlers and the other a G. rugosa Johnson with completely retracted gills.
Specimens of G. capitata occur from the following stations: 4,343 off South Coronado Island, vicinity of San Diego, 60-155 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,452, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay,, 49-50 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,485, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay,.
39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,548, 4,549, 4,550 and 4,551, all off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 46-57 fathoms,, coarse sand, shells and rock, except 4,559, where green mud and rock; 4,557, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 53-54 fathoms, rock.
Glyoera tesselata Grube.
Glycera tesselata Grube, Arch.
Naturgesch., XXIX, I, p. 41, Taf.
IV, fig.
4.
This second European species as nearly as frequent and, at southern stations, as generally distributed in the region as G. capitata.
The only obvious respect in which these examples appear to differ from European ones is in the possession of a smaller number of prostomial rings, for, whereas Ehlers attributes thirteen and Mcintosh seventeen rings to this region, these have only eleven or twelve nearly equal rings above the enlarged base.
All of the specimens are stout and more or less inflated anteriorly in the proboscidial region and taper rather abruptly into the slender and attenuated posterior half.
All segments are biannulate.
Several have the proboscis fully protruded, showing the very dense covering of very high slender papilla?, among which are a few somewhat stouter but otherwise similar papillae.
The jaw appendages differ from those of G. nana in having a much narrower basal wing.
The color is generally a rich orange-brown, most pronounced anteriorly, and only lacking on the smallest specimens, which are clear yellow.
This species has already been recorded from the North Pacific in the Gulf of Georgia and off Japan.
Stations 4,326, off Soledad Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 243-264 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,399, Lat.
32° 44' 50" N., Long.
117° 48' 45" W., 264-285 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; 4,410, off Santa Catalina Island, 143-245 fathoms, gray sand, shells, gravel and rocks; 4,415, off Santa Barbara Island, 302-638 fathoms, green mud; 4,418, same locality, 238-310 fathoms, dark green mud, sand and rock; 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island, 197-281 fathoms, black sand, pebbles and rock; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,463, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 48-111 fathoms, rocky.
Glycera alba Rathke macrobranchia subsp.
nov. Glycera alba Rathke, Nov. Act.
Acad.
Nat.
Cur., XX, p. 173, Tab.
IX, fig.
9.
Represented by a single long, slender, nearly complete specimen.
Length 99 mm., width 2.7 mm.
Number of segments 129, probably 25 or 30 at the caudal end missing.
The segments are all strongly biannulate, with the middle or footbearing annulus somewhat larger.
Parapodia small, in middle region about one-third as long as the body width.
The dorsal gills begin at XXII and reach a very large size before L, remaining nearly unaltered to the end of the piece.
Compared with European and Japanese examples of the species, the gills of this specimen are much larger and the postsetal lobe smaller.
The jaws are unknown, but the half-protruded proboscis was studied.
Its surface is very finely granular from the presence of very numerous small, pecliculated, oval papilla?, bearing inclined, winged, cuticular terminal plates, among which are scattered some much smaller subcorneal papilla?.
Compared with typical examples of the species, these papilla?
are distinctly larger, with relatively shorter stalks and less pronounced wings on the end plates.
The single specimen is labelled Beaver Shoal, San Diego Bay, mud, 7/19/'05.
Glyoera branchiopoda sp.
nov. Pis.
XX, XXI, figs.
155-159.
A small, rather slender species, characterized by the well-developed ligulate dorsal and ventral gills.
The type is 90 mm.
long without proboscis; the maximum width, exclusive of parapodia, 2.8 mm., with parapodia 3.5 mm.
Proboscis, not fully extended, 22 mm.
long, 2 mm.
in diameter at base and 3.5 mm.
at the distal end.
Prostomium of the usual form, consisting of a broad, rugous, basal region constituting about two-fifths of its length and a slender, somewhat depressed conical portion divided into seven annuli decreasing in size regularly from base to apex, the basal three aggregating considerably more than one-half of its length.
Terminal segment very small, dome-shaped, bearing the four minute apical tentacles which are divergent and all directed somewhat ventrad, the dorsal slightly longer than the ventral.
There is a median dorsal and a median ventral groove, the latter being the better developed.
Peristomium closely united with prostomium, divided below by the large mouth.
Metastomial region increases in diameter to about XL, from which the body tapers to the caudal end.
Anterior segments very short and crowded, the first with modified parapodia closely crowded against the head.
Remainder of the body nearly terete, the segments strongly arched above and slightly flattened below.
Anteriorly they are at least eight times as wide as long, but increase gradually in length while decreasing in width until the ratio is two to one.
All segments are strongly and completely triannulate and the annuli are of nearly equal width, only the third or postpodal being slightly larger than the others, especially posteriorly where they are marked above by a straight cross-furrow.
On the short and crowded anterior segments the prepodal annulus is frequently united with the middle annulus laterally and partly bears the parapodia.
Middle annulus, though never enlarged, is frequently conspicuous by reason of its paler color.
Pygidium unknown.
Parapodia characteristic, the anterior short and deep, the posterior longer and more cylindrical.
First two situated high by the sides of the mouth with the notopodium much reduced and notocirrus totally lacking, consequently consisting of a neuropodium bearing a short, rounded postsetal lip and a longer acute asymmetrical presetal lip.
Remaining parapodia (PI.
XXI, figs.
158, 159) all biramous, the postsetal lip short, broad, and undivided, broadly rounded, often slightly emarginated on middle segments.
Presetal lip deeply cleft into a dorsal and a ventral lobe.
On anterior segments (fig.
157) these present no striking peculiarities; both are foliaceous at the base where the ventral lobe is much the larger, while the distal portion, which is separated by a slight constriction, is longer and acute in the dorsal lobe and usually obtuse in the ventral lobe.
Neurocirrus prominent, attached to middle of ventral face of neuropodium, somewhat grooved and embracing the neuropodium at the base and tapered to an acute tip which usually diverges more or less from the foot.
Notocirrus a small globoid or subcylindrical papilla situated on the side of the body well above the parapodium.
Passing caudad, the foliaceous base of the dorsal presetal lobe is gradually reduced and the distal part enlarged to form a gill which becomes fully established at about XXXV (fig.
158).
Throughout the middle region and nearly if not quite to the caudal end this lobe forms a prominent, subligulate, erect gill rising from the dorsum of the end of the foot and fully equalling or exceeding the latter in length (fig.
159).
The ventral presetal lobe does not become branchiform, but elongates and finally takes a slender finger-like form (fig.
159).
Simultaneously with the development of the dorsal gill a ventral gill develops from the modification of the neurocirrus.
This is similar in form to the dorsal gill, but when fully developed (figs.
158, 159) becomes even larger, reaching beyond the end of the postsetal lip.
Near the caudal end it undergoes considerable reduction in size.
Both dorsal and ventral gills are thinwalled and sacular with large cavities communicating with the ccelom and a layer of longitudinal and slightly oblique muscle fibers by which they may be retracted.
Acicula two, corresponding to the two principal fascicles of setae, both simple, nearly straight, tapered, pale rods, the ventral much the stouter.
Setae colorless, in three fascicles, a dorsal oblique row of very slender simple setae, a middle horizontal and a ventral vertical series of compound setae.
The latter have slender shafts terminating in deep asymmetrical sockets and slender, tapered, finely punctated blades, with minute marginal denticulations.
On the first two parapodia simple setae are absent, but the dorsalmost compound setae have very long slender blades.
In general the blades of the compound setae decrease in length from the dorsalmost ventrad and from the anterior end caudad.
Proboscis described from a cotype (station 4,517), this being the only one in which it is everted to the jaw pads.
The nearly complete worm is 35 mm.
long, the proboscis 12 mm.
long, 1.5 mm.
in diameter at the base and 3.2 mm.
at the distal end.
Clavate, the distal end domed and terminated by sixteen large, soft papilla?
flattened against one another in a circle at the base of the still retracted jaws.
Surface proximad of these papilla?
thickly covered with small cutaneous papilla?
of three forms and sizes.
The most numerous are tall, slender cones (PL XX, fig.
155a), the second are larger, low, truncate cones (fig.
1556) arranged in eighteen or twenty longitudinal rows along the muscle bands; the third are a few scattered and smaller papilla?
(fig.
155c).
All three kinds have a similar structure, with an apical pore at which a pair of refringent fibers end, and containing a few large sensory cells and a supporting framework.
Jaws of the usual falcate form, strong, black, clawlike with expanded, hollow bases and an appendage consisting of a rod and a large thin, triangular, basal wing supported by a thickened marginal rib (fig.
156).
Color as preserved pale yellow.
Stations 4,517, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 750-766 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,525, same locality, 222 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4,527, same locality, 183-337 fathoms, hard sand; 4,528, same locality, 766-800 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4,574 (type), off Cape Colnett, Lower California, Lat.
30° 35' N., Long.
117° 23' W., 1,400 fathoms.
Glycera rugosa Johnson.
Glycera rugosa Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Sci.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, pp.
409-411, PI.
10, figs.
101, 102.
Owing to the complete retractibility of the branched gills of this species, their presence is easily overlooked as was done on a former occasion in hastily determining such a specimen from San Diego as G. nana.
Careful examination in direct sunlight always renders visible the orifices through which the gills have been withdrawn.
Those from station 4,454 are marked with quadrate black spots.
Stations 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,454, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 65-71 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,548, same locality, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock.
Glycera longissima Arwidsson.
Glycera longissima Arwidsson, Bergens Museums Aabog for 1898 (1899), pp.
23, 24, PI.
I, figs.
15, 19; G. chilensis Arwidsson, ibid., pp.
24, 25, PI.
I, figs.
20, 21.
Arwidsson's two species are probably identical, as Ehlers has already indicated.
This species is represented by a very large, practically complete example 305 mm.
long and 8 mm.
wide exclusive of the parapodia.
Segments 230, a few of the most caudal and the pygidium missing.
Prostomium 12-annulate, the four apical tentacles minute.
Segments strongly biannulate.
Gills begin at XIV in the same position as in G. rugosa.
but are much more complex than in that species.
All are branched, but the most anterior and posterior have only two or three slender divisions.
The most are very large and complex, reaching from their place of origin at the posterior dorsal part of the foot over most of its posterior face.
The largest divide immediately at the base into three or four large branches, each of which spreads vertically into a flat plane divided irregular iy several times into slender filaments.
Most of the larger gills consist of thirty or forty filaments.
Proboscis 53 mm.
long and 7 mm.
in diameter, but jaws not exposed, thickly covered with papilla?
of the same form as those of G. rugosa.
This specimen agrees rather better with the description of G. chilensis, especially in the form of the jaw appendage and the mode of branching of the gills.
Station 4,322, off San Nicolas Island, 31-32 fathoms, gray sand and shells.
G-ONIADID^].
Goniada annulata Moore.
Goniada annulata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
549-553, PI.
XXXVI, figs.
45-48.
A considerable representation of this species, usually only one example from each station, shows a wide range of color variation from yellow through light brown, gray and dark brown to purple, usually more or less distinctly annulated, but some of the most deeply pigmented ones nearly uniform.
Some of them are sexually mature.
Notopodial seta?
begin on XXXIII or XXXIV, in the latter case the preceding parapodium being usually provided with a small acha?tous notopodium.
The sexual region, characterized by long swimming setae and neural eye-spots, begins on different specimens at LIV, LV or LVI.
The proboscis and its jaws and papilla?
agree very closely with the types.
Stations 4,307, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 490-496 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,326, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 243-264 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,325, same locality, 275-292 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,352, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 549-5S5 fathoms, green mud; 4,353, same locality, 62S-640 fathoms, green mud; 4,366, same locality, 176-181 fathoms, green mud; 4,369, same locality, 260-284 fathoms, green mud, sand and rock; 4,462, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 161-265 fathoms, green mud; 4,508, same locality, 292-303 fathoms, soft green mud ; 4,524, 4,525, 4,526, same locality, 204-239 fathoms, soft gray mud ; 4,574, off Cape Colnett, 30° 35' N., 117° 23' W., 1,400 fathoms.
Goniada brunnea Treadwell.
Goniada brunnea Treadwell, Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., 1906, p. 1174, figs.
67-69.
Several excellently preserved specimens of this species occur in the collection and permit some minor additions to Tread well's description.
The largest individual is 111 mm.
long with a maximum width of body in the anterior region of 1.8 mm.
and between the tips of the parapodia of about 3 mm., the corresponding measurements of the posterior region being 2.6 and 4.2 mm.
Prostomium shaped as in Treadwell's figure, composed of from seven to nine equal rings above the base, the higher numbers in small specimens.
As Treadwell supposed from the appearance of his, in this respect imperfectly preserved, specimen, the apical tentacles are Particulate, the larger basal joint clavate and the minute terminal piece retractile.
Parapodia are as figured by Treadwell.
but his figure 68 is inverted.
Notopodia with setae appear abruptly at XLIY or XLV.
Treadwell says at L. The distinction between the two regions of the body is never sharply indicated.
Usually the anterior region is of a paler color and neural eye-spots, having the form of short dashes, and swimming setae begin at about LVI.
Pygidium a minute obliquely truncate cylinder with a somewhat thickened marginal welt and no cirri in place.
The color is pale brown or yellowishbrown, either with paler annulations at the furrows or dusky markings, paling to clear yellow posteriorly.
No specimen has more than a small portion of the proboscis protruded and the jaws were seen by dissection.
The large jaws are black, with four large, stout, clawlike teeth and apparently no small teeth.
Dorsal arc of small jaws absent.
Ventral arc of nine small black jaws apparently all bidentate with bilobed bases.
Chevron jaws on the largest specimen eighteen, on a very small one nine on one side ten on the other and on other specimens fourteen or fifteen.
Soft papillae in a circle of eighteen.
The surface of the proboscis appears smooth under a pocket lens, but when more highly magnified is seen to be thickly covered with minute hemispherical papillae with an asymmetrical basal pore.
Stations 4,366, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 176-181 fathoms, green mud; 4,381, off South Coronado Island, 618-654 fathoms, green mud; 4,457, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud ; 4,4S0, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand.
Glycinde armigera sp.
nov. PI.
XXI, figs.
160-171.
A slender species with the two regions not sharply differentiated.
Length of type 81 mm., maximum width near middle, body only 1.8 mm., between tips of parapodia 3.1 mm.
Number of segments 178.
The largest example is 118 mm.
long and has 191 segments.
Prostomium (PI.
XXI, fig.
160) much elongated, equal to the first seven segments, very slender and acutely conical, depressed.
Base or oral region coalesced with peristomium, forming a somewhat swollen region wider than second setigerous segment and divided by an indistinct cross-furrow.
Attenuated distal part divided very regularly into sometimes eight, sometimes nine, equal wings, the apical one bearing four small tentacles with clavate basal joints and minute cylindrical retractile distal joints.
Median dorsal and ventral fields broad, smooth and continuous for entire length with the cross-furrows shallow, the lateral fields bounded by deep dorsal and ventral grooves and much more deeply cut by the interannular furrows.
Mouth a small crescentic slit within the enlarged basal region and bounded laterally by the small palps.
Eyes one pair, minute, black, widely separated on basal region, frequently indiscernible on larger specimens; no apical eyes.
Peristomium united with base of prostomium, forming the simple posterior lip and bearing a pair of small parapodia.
Anterior end of body very slender, at first narrower than the oral region of head, terete; the segments well-defined, simple, slightly flattened below and in the parapodial field, strongly arched above with a narrow, somewhat softened dorsal field.
The segments very gradually increase in both diameter and length to the point of greatest width (about LX), where they are about three times as wide as long.
The two regions are less sharply differentiated than in many species, but a few segments behind the point of greatest width of the anterior region a slight constriction occurs, followed at somite LXX to LXXVI on different specimens by a more or less obvious increase in size of the parapodia accompanied by the presence, in mature examples, of genital products in the ccelom.
The neural eye-spots, which take the form of short brown — s crossing the intersegmental furrows in the neural line, become conspicuous at the same place, but may be traced much farther forward, often to about L, gradually becoming fainter.
Segments of posterior region somewhat depressed, relatively shorter and more crowded than anteriorly and gradually tapered to the caudal end.
Pygidium a minute wing bearing a pair of long, very slender, flagelliform subanal cirri at least equal to the greatest width of the body, including the parapodia, and often one-third longer.
Parapodia situated near the ventral level anteriorly, extending their entire depth on most of the posterior region, all long and slender, those at the anterior end of the anterior region and throughout the posterior region equalling the width of the segments or, near the caudal end, exceeding them.
As far as somite XXIX they are uniramous.
The first foot (fig.
160) is small, with a minute setigerous tubercle nearly concealed between the much longer dorsal and ventral cirri.
Succeeding ones gradually enlarge and the next few have the neuropodium divided into presetal and postsetal lobes of nearly equal length, the former broad and with an axial prolongation, the latter narrow and tapered (fig.
160).
Dorsal and ventral cirri are about one-fourth longer than the neuropodium, moderately slender and tapered to blunt points, the former with a pitlike depression and glandular swelling near the base, beyond which it is bent somewhat abruptly dorsad, the latter nearly straight.
On still succeeding somites all parts of the parapodium become increasingly compressed and foliaceous and the neuropodium longer than or at least equal to the cirri.
On typical parapodia of this region (PI.
XXI, fig.
162) the broadly ovate postsetal lip is longer than the presetal lip, which is broadly obcordate petalliform with a tongue-shaped prolongation arising from the sinus.
Neurocirrus about as long as neuropodium, compressed, of nearly uniform width to near the bluntly triangular tip.
Notocirrus always irregular and somewhat distorted in outline, the base somewhat contracted, the distal part subovate, somewhat foliaceous and more or less abruptly bent dorsad.
At somite XXX a small notopodium appears abruptly anterior to the base of the notocirrus and immediately consists of a small setigerous tubercle, a short presetal lip and a longer postsetal lip.
Through the remainder of the anterior region the biramous parapodia undergo no marked change, but with the beginning of the posterior sexual region (about somite LXX to LXXVI) they become distinctly larger and the rami better differentiated.
Typical parapodia of this region (fig.
163) are large and deep with the neuropodium much exceeding the notopodium, compressed, somewhat widened distally into a broadly rounded acicular tubercle enclosed between broadly foliaceous, more or less irregularly ovate, presetal and postsetal lips, of which the latter is somewhat the longer and the former marked by a slight constriction separating a distal portion corresponding to a much broadened Ungulate process of anterior parapodia.
Neurocirrus much shorter than neuropodium and divergent from it.
The notopodium consists of a deep postsetal lip broadly attached to the notocirrus above with a slight emargination at the tip of the aciculum, and a small subovate presetal lip or process just ventral to the end of the aciculum.
Notocirrus shaped much like neurocirrus, but shorter and lacking the basal depression and bending which characterizes anterior notocirri.
Toward the caudal end the rami are relatively longer and more divergent.
Acicula in each ramus single, rather stout, straight, tapering rods ending in blunt points ending flush with the surface, the neuropodial being sometimes slightly bent at the tip.
Neuropodial setae in a broad spreading fan-shaped fascicle of one series, divided into nearly equal dorsal and ventral groups by a considerable interval at the aciculum into which the tonguelike prolongation of the presetal lip enters.
On the type they are distributed as follows: somite N 16 supra-acicular and 14 subacicular, XXV 21 and 22, L 23 and 22, C 28 and 24.
They are all of one kind, compound, capillary, slender and colorless, the gently curved shafts slightly enlarged at the distal end (fig.
164) to form a bifurcate socket with unequal limbs, the longer of which is faintly toothed.
Appendages very delicate, slender, tapered, more or less curved, very finely punctate and along the edge finely fringed.
They are shortest at the dorsal and ventral borders of the fascicles and gradually increase in length to acicular borders.
Except that they are very long and slender on the middle segments, there is no obvious distinction between these setae on the two regions of the body.
Notopodial setae (fig.
165) are few, three supra-acicular on XXX, three supra-acicular and two subacicular on L and four and three, respectively, on C. They are simple, colorless, delicate and very small, with a peculiar knoblike prominence on one side, beyond which they are prolonged into a very slender, acute tip.
On more anterior parapodia these tips are exposed, but farther back they are shorter and concealed between the notopodial lips.
Proboscis, when fully retracted, reaches to somite XLIX, where the jaws lie.
None of the specimens has it fully everted.
It is most fully so on a cotype (station 4,480) on which it is 8 mm.
long and 2 mm.
in diameter, cylindroid, of uniform diameter, with four broad longitudinal ridges (one dorsal and one ventral pair) bearing four bands of horny papillae or paragnaths.
These bands extend for nearly the entire length of the eversible proboscis from the jaws nearly to the base, where they dwindle away.
When the proboscis is everted the paragnaths become more or less erect and form a formidable and bristling armature.
The ventral bands are borne on a pair of rather sharp ridges and each consists of two series of horny papillae, those of the more medial series (PI.
XXI, fig.
167) being larger with broad crescentic, flat bases and somewhat bent, acute, conical tops.
Those of the more lateral series are more complex (fig.
168), about one-third to one-half as high as the inner papillae, truncate and bent and bearing on the convex side a thick, horny scale or plate with three short spines at its lower border.
Both kinds have a subapical pore and both become smaller toward the jaws, to which the bands nearly reach.
Papilla?
of the dorsal bands are larger and stouter, especially those of the inner or more medial series, which are clawlike, directed toward the middle line, with a broad base and subapical pore (fig.
169).
Supporting these, between and behind them, are three irregular rows of somewhat smaller papilla?
similar to the principal ones, except that they are more or less bifid at the apex, a feature which is very obvious on the tall papilla?
at the middle of the series (fig.
170).
All of these papilla?
are very hard and horny and continue to the jaws without material decrease in size, but in the opposite direction, toward the base of the proboscis, gradually become reduced.
Between the four armed bands are a few minute spheroid papilla?
with roughened summits (fig.
171).
The circle of soft jaw papilla?
appears to comprise twenty.
Jaws black, the principal pair (fig.
166a) ventral, the width of four or five soft papilla?
apart, with three (sometimes four) large, clawlike teeth and on the medial side an additional very small tooth or none.
No ventral arc of small jaws.
Dorsal arch of about thirty small, double, quadridentate jaws consisting of a larger anterior and a smaller posterior pair mostly like b (fig.
166), but a few like c. Color variable, pale yellow, light brown, often with bluish reflections, drab, etc., more or less mottled with dusky, and those from station 3,454 exhibiting a few quadrate black spots.
The general color of the type is a clear amber-brown with the furrows and median dorsal field bluish-gray and the prostomium pale gray.
In the posterior region the color is almost entirely blue-gray, except on the parapodia which retain the brown.
Neural eye-spots dark brown, very conspicuous in the posterior region.
Represented usually by single specimens from the following stations : 4,309, 4,310, off Point Loma Lighthouse, near San Diego, 67-78 fathoms, fine sand, green mud and rocks; 4,332, same locality, 62-183 fathoms, gray sand and rock; 4,334, same locality, 514-541 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,436, off San Miguel Island, 264-271 fathoms, green mud; 4,452, 4,453, 4,454, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 49-71 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, 4,467, same locality, 36-54 fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,4S0, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,548, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rocks; 4,550, same locality, 50-57 fathoms, green mud and rocks.
Arioia nuda sp.
nov. PI.
XXI, figs.
172-176.
As usual in the genus, this is a very fragile worm, and no complete examples are known, but only four short anterior ends and a fragment from near the caudal end.
The type comprises two pieces not certainly belonging to the same individual: an anterior piece of 41 segments, 31 mm.
long, 5 mm.
wide and 3.2 mm.
deep at somite VIII, and a much more slender and gently tapered piece of 72 segments and evidently from near the caudal end.
Prostomium mammilliform or flattened domeshaped, bearing a blunt, nipple-like apical palpode about one-half as long as the prostomium, the combined length of both being about equal to the basal width of the prostomium.
An obscure, rather large pigment spot or eye at each side close to the base of the palpode.
On the ventral side a pair of parallel longitudinal grooves include between them a slightly depressed area ending at the quadrate mouth which is bounded on the sides by the peristomium and behind by a lip derived chiefly from somite II.
Anterior end of body for the first fifteen segments depressed, distinctly wider than deep, both dorsal and ventral surfaces moderately convex.
Segments increase rather rapidly in width to VIII or IX, then become more gradually narrower.
They are generally from four to six times as wide as long.
At XVI, coincident with the shifting of the parapodia dorsad, the segments become much shorter, deeper, much more strongly convex below and flatter above.
These conditions are maintained in the slender posterior region.
There is no trace of the pectinated ventral fold or ventral rows of papillae characterizing the more typical species of the genus.
Walls of anterior part of body firm, of posterior region rather soft and translucent.
Pygidium unknown.
Parapodia begin on I and are biramous throughout, the first fifteen differing from the others in the lateral position and large size of the neuropodium and the fimbriated or pectinated postsetal membrane.
The first two or three are smaller and of simpler structure than the others, consisting of small contiguous notopodial and neuropodial setigerous areas and behind each a postsetal lobe of which the notopodial is narrow, erect and pointed triangular, the neuropodial a low, broad, feebly pectinated fold, corresponding to the larger size of the latter.
The neuropodium increases in size rapidly and soon becomes a low platform rising toward the caudal margin and bearing the setae in a close phalanx of several, gradually rising tiers.
They attain the maximum size at IX to XIII on which the setae palisade is about four times as deep as long, and the now conspicuous postsetal fold bears twelve to fourteen or fifteen marginal processes (PI.
XXI, fig.
172), of which the dorsal is frequently somewhat larger than the others and occupies a more detached position above the setae.
On somites XII to XV, inclusive, the ordinary palisade setae are much reduced and in part replaced in the dorsal portion of the posterior row by a few stout spines, the dorsalmost of which is very large and provided with a special cirrus, at the base of which opens a large pyriform gland, sometimes visible to the naked eye as a whitish swelling on the surface of the postsetal fold (PI.
XXI, fig.
174).
At the same time the entire neuropodium undergoes reduction from the ventral side and the postsetal fold becomes smaller with few marginal processes.
Except that it gradually shifts dorsad and becomes larger, with a conspicuous asymmetrical wing on the ventral side of the base, the notopodial postsetal lobe undergoes no change in the anterior region.
At somite XVI the neuropodium becomes abruptly reduced in size, turned dorsad as a narrow erect process, which may bear one or two small papillae on its lateral margin but often lacks them, and is elevated upon a winglike compressed base which unites it to and also bears the notopodium.
Just above its base the neuropodium is constricted, and distally is divided into a short, truncate, postsetal lip and a longer postsetal and ventral acute conical lip (PI.
XXI, fig.
173) between which the acicula end and the small tuft of setae arises.
The notopodium of XVI consists of a setigerous tubercle bearing a large spreading fascicle of setae and provided with an erect, broad, lamellar, asymmetrical ovate, postsetal lip which is abruptly constricted at the end to a slender attenuated tip reaching nearly to the tips of the setae.
On succeeding segments parapodia (PI.
XXI, fig.
173) continue to ehange in the direction initiated on XVI, the thin basal plate risinghigher and the notopodia and neuropodia becoming more slender and erect until they become strictly dorsal, with the two small erect rami elevated on a lamellifonn pedicle.
The lips of the neuropodium remain much as described, the presetal short and truncate, the postsetal longer and acute.
The notopodial presetal lip is obsolete and the postsetal lip becomes much elongated, narrow and acute, with stronglyconstricted base.
The postsetal lobes of both rami contain numerous irregular long, longitudinal vascular loops quite different in arrangement from those in the gills.
Neurocirrus (fig.
173) a slender, pointed process rising a short distance ventral to the neuropodium, obsolete in the anterior region and becoming very small toward the caudal end.
Notocirrus wanting unless represented by the gills.
Acicula of anterior parapodia apparently a large number of simple tapering rods not easily distinguished from setae.
On posterior segments there are two or three notopodial and usually one neurcpodial acicula, both very slender and tapered.
On segments XIII to XV, inclusive, appears a series of five to seven stout, brown spines in a vertical row at the cephalic margin of the much reduced palisade of setae and which are probably to be considered as modified acicula.
The dorsalmost (PI.
XXI, fig.
174) is much larger than the others and projects very prominently and obliquely upward across the interramal space.
At its base, as noted above, is a cirrus and large pear-shaped gland.
Like the largest of the others, only the tips of which are exposed, the dorsalmost spine ends in a thickened, spearlike, acute point.
Among the large spines are some smaller ones with attenuate tips.
Setae are all simple and of one type in both rami, though differing considerably in proportions and structural details.
Omitting the above-described spines, all are more or less acute, tapered and flexible.
Notopodial setae are generally longer and more slender and arranged in dense fan-shaped fascicles on anterior somites and in delicate tufts of a few setae on posterior somites.
Neuropodials of the anterior region form dense phalanges of four to six ranks in which the setae increase in length and change somewhat in structure from before backward.
On the posterior region they form erect tufts of very few setae similar in every respect to the notopodials.
On the first few parapodia notopodial and neuropoclial setae differ only in length.
Both are colorless and slender.
The basal portion of the exposed part contains a conspicuous spiral canal (PI.
XXI, fig.
175) wound round a central fibrous axis and more capacious on one side than on the other, so that the axis is somewhat eccentric.
Farther out the canal becomes reduced and then obsolete on the side upon which it was least developed, thus leaving an asymmetrical camerated structure, often accompanied by a very minute serrulation which gradually disappears, 21 leaving nearly smooth, solid capillary tips.
On the posterior region the more slender and elongated seta?
have the structure of the more delicate parts of the anterior setae, the basal region with its canal being absent and the shaft provided with minute appressed teeth.
No bifurcate setae, such as are present in A. johnsoni, can be detected in this species.
In the neuropodium it is evident after a few somites that the shorter setae of the first rank or two have become dark-colored and have lost both the external serrulation and internal cavity.
These changes become emphasized for several segments.
Setae of the posterior rows are of the same type as the notopodial setae, but have the basal canalization and cameration more evident and the slender solid tips less prolonged.
At the ventral end of the fascicle is a small, somewhat isolated tuft of shorter setae, some of which are simple spines finely serrulated along one margin and a few short blunt spines with the ends enclosed in a mucronate hood.
All of these differentiations become more pronounced to somite XI, after which the stout acicular spines appear in association with a conspicuous reduction in the number and size of the other setae, particularly those of the anterior rows.
In this region the small ventral tuft is composed entirely of a few small hooded spines (fig.
176), below which is a second tuft of the largest canaliculated setae remaining on the neuropodium.
In the posterior region the neuropodial setae have exactly the structure of the notopodial, but are fewer in number.
Branchiae begin on somite V of all specimens, rising from the dorsal area as a pair of foliaceous, rather broadly lanceolate processes barely reaching to the notopodia and separated by a distance greater than their length.
Proceeding Caudad, they regularly increase in length and size (PI.
XXI, fig.
172) until by somite XL their length is about three-fifths the width of the body, their form foliaceous lanceolate and posture erect.
On the posterior piece they have become fully one-and-one-half times the body width and taper to filamentous tips, being therefore much elongated and very conspicuous (PI.
XXI, fig.
173).
They show no special areas of strong ciliation, but are very richly vascular, having a large axial vessel with a spacious bulbous expansion at the base and a complex bipinniform system of very numerous lateral branches extending to the margins.
Anteriorly the gills are quite free from each other and from the notopodia, but as the parapodia assume the dorsal position they become united by a transverse membraneous fold that crosses the whole width of the dorsum.
Proboscis very imperfectly known, only the ends of a few of the lacinated divisions being exposed on any of the specimens.
Color at anterior end pale yellow, fading out and leaving the posterior end nearly colorless and much more translucent.
A rather conspicuous series of median dorsal brown spots begins on VII and continues to the caudal end.
On some of the specimens the anterior spots are double.
The only other color is a slight anterior cuticular iridescence, the obscure eye-spot (?)
on each side of the prostomium and a duskiness of certain of the palisades of setae.
Most of the examples are sexually mature, both males and females occurring, the type being of the latter sex.
A specimen from station 4,306 is noteworthy because of the occurrence of abnormalities, the gills of many of the anterior segments being bifid and the postsetal lobes more or less divided into slender often lacinated processes.
Stations 4,306, off Point Loraa Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego > 207-497 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and gravel; 4,327, off Soledad Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 263-330 fathoms, soft green mud ; 4,339 (type), off Point Loma Lighthouse, 241-369 fathoms, green mud.
Explanation of Plates XV-XXI.
Unless stated otherwise, all drawings are made from the types.
Plate XV.
— Chloeia pinnata, figs.
1-6 (from cotype, station 4,475).
Fig.
1.
— Posterior ventral bifid notopodial seta from X, X 98.
Fig.
2.
— Tip of serrated notoseta from X, X 250.
Fig.
3.
— Tip of spurred anterior notoseta from near notocirrus of X, X 98.
Fig.
4.
— a and b, respectively, tips of stout and slender neurosetae from X, X 250.
Fig.
5.
— Tip of anterior neuroseta from X, X 98.
Fig.
6.
— Same of somite I, X 250.
Euphrosyne limbata, figs.
7-11.
Fig.
7.
— Fifth gill from somite X, incomplete, X 40.
Fig.
8.
— Main division of 3d gill from X, X 56.
Fig.
9.
— Large notoseta of X, X 98.
Fig.
10.
— Ventral neuropodial of X, X 98.
Fig.
11.
— Dorsal neuropodial of X; a, end of another with wider angle of divergence of the spur, X 98.
Euphrosyne dumosa, figs.
12-17.
Fig.
12.
— Gill from somite XV of cotype (station 4,470), X 56.
Fig.
13.
— Large smooth notopodial seta from 2d row of X, X 98.
Fig.
14.
— Small same from 3d row, X 98.
Fig.
15.
— Bifid serrate notoseta from X, X 98; a, tip of same, X 250.
Fig.
16.
— Ventral neuroseta from XV, X 98.
Fig.
17.— Dorsal same, X 98.
Fig.
18.
— Nereis procera, parapodium L of male epitoke from station 4,355, X 40.
Fig.
19.
— Platynereis agassizi, two mature eggs from coelom of epitoke from station 4,355, X 56.
Eunice multipectinata, figs.
20-23.
Fig.
20.
— Parapodium and gill from somite XXV, X 17.
Fig.
21.— Compound seta from XV, X 250.
Fig.
22.— Pectinate seta from L, X 440.
Fig.
23.
— A rather slender ventral crochet from CL, X 250.
Nothria pallida, figs.
24-28.
Fig.
24.
— Anterior view of 2d parapodium, X 24.
Fig.
25.
— Posteiior view of 4th parapodium, X 24.
Fig.
26.— Hooded crochet from IV, X 360.
Fig.
27.— Pectinate seta from LXXV, X 440.
Fig.
28.— End of crochet from XXV, X 250.
Plate XVI.
— Marphysa conferta, figs.
29-34.
Fig.
29.
— Head and first four segments.
Fig.
30.
— Parapodium X with gill, X 56.
Fig.
31.
— Parapodium L, X 56.
Fig.
32.
— Compound seta from X, X 440.
Fig.
33.
— Pectinate seta from L, X 440.
Fig.
34.— Crochet from L, X 360.
Nothria pallida, figs.
35-37.
Fig.
35.— Parapodium L, X 24.
Fig.
36.
— Mandibles of cotype (station 4,401) from the venter, X 33.
Fig.
37.
— Maxillae of same from the dorsum, X 33.
Nothria species ?, figs.
38-40.
Fig.
38.— Parapodium XXV, X 24.
Fig.
39.
— Compound crochet from III, X 440.
Fig.
40.
— End of simple crochet from XXV, X 250.
Nothria hiatidentata, figs.
41-50.
Fig.
41.
— Anterior end from the dorsum, X 5.
Fig.
42.
— Anterior aspect of 2d parapodium, X 24.
Fig.
43.
— Same of 4th parapodium, X 24.
Fig.
44.
— Parapodium L, X 17.
Fig.
45.
— Tip of a much worn large spine from III, X 250.
Fig.
46.
— End of slightly worn crochet from IV seen in { face, X 250.
Fig.
47.
— End of a pectinate seta from IV, X 440.
Fig.
48.
— End of a large hooded crochet from L, X 250.
Figs.
41-48 are all drawn from a cotype (station 4,387j.
Plate XVII.— Fig.
49.
— Ventral view of mandibles of cotype, X 24.
Fig.
50.
— Dorsal view of maxillae of same, X 24.
Onuphis parva, figs.
51-57, all from cotype (station 4,446).
Fig.
51.
— Posterior aspect of parapodium III, X 56.
Fig.
52.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium V, X 56.
Fig.
53.
— Same of parapodium XXV, X 56.
Fig.
54.
— End of compound crochet of IV, X 600.
Fig.
55.— Pectinate seta from XXV, X 600.
Fig.
56.— End of hooded crochet from XXV, X 600.
Fig.
57.
— Slender crochet without guard from L, X 600.
Onuphis nebulosa, figs.
58-68, all from cotype (station 4,454).
Fig.
58.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium III, X 33.
Fig.
59.— Same of V, X 33.
Fig.
60.— Same of L, with gill, X 33.
Fig.
61.
— End of a compound crochet from II, X 360.
Fig.
62.
— End of a compound crochet from VI, X 360.
Fig.
63.
— End of a transition compound seta from X, X 440.
Fig.
64.
— Pectinate seta from X, X 440.
Fig.
65.
— Transition hooded crochet from XV, X 440.
Fig.
66.— Hooded crochet from LXXV, X 440.
Fig.
67.
— Ventral view of mandibles, X 33.
Fig.
68.
— Dorsal view of maxillae, X 33.
Onuphis vexillaria, figs.
69-76.
Fig.
69.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium III, X 24.
Fig.
70.— Same of V, X 24.
Fig.
71.— Same of L with gill, X 24.
Fig.
72.— End of compound crochet from IV, X 440.
Fig.
73.
— Pectinate seta from a posterior segment, X 440.
Fig.
74.— Tip of a crochet from L, X 360.
Fig.
75.
— Ventral aspect of one-half of a probably abnormal mandible, represented cut in two, X 24.
Fig.
76.
— Dorsal aspect of maxillae, X 24.
Plate XVIII.
— Diopatra ornata, figs.
77-85.
Fig.
77.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium III, X 24.
Fig.
78.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium XV, with gill, X 24.
Fig.
79.
— Large compound crochet from 1st foot, X 360.
Fig.
80.
— A slender compound crochet from 3d foot, X 360.
Fig.
81.
— A semi-articulated subacicular seta from somite VI, X 360.
"Fig.
82.
— A pectinate seta from C, X 360.
Fig.
83.
— End of a large simple guarded crochet from C, X 360.
Fig.
84.
— Ventral aspect of left half of mandible, X 24.
Fig.
85.
— Dorsal view of maxilla?
of cotype (station 4,519), X 17.
Hyalinoecia juvenalis, figs.
86-95.
Fig.
86.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium of III, X 33.
Fig.
87.
— Posterior aspect of parapodium of V, X 33.
Fig.
88.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium XXV, with gill, X 33.
Fig.
89.— Crochet from III, X 360.
Fig.
90.— Crochet from XXV, X 250.
Fig.
91.
— Limbate seta from ventral fascicle of XXV, X 360.
Fig.
92.
— Pectinate seta fiom L, X 360.
Fig.
93.
— Left mandible of cotvpe from venter, X 33.
Fig.
94.— Same of type, X 33.
Fig.
95.
— Maxillae of tvpe from the dorsum, somewhat crushed, X 33.
Figs.
86, 87, 88 and 93* are from a cotype (station-4,431).
Fig.
96.
— Unworn tip of a hooded crochet of a young specimen of Hyalinoecia tubicola stricta, seen in \ face, X 600.
Fig.
97.
— Same from L of a full-grown specimen, X 250.
Onuphis parva, figs.
98.
99.
Fig.
98.
— Cephalic end of mandible of a cotype (station 4,475), ventral aspect, X 56.
Fig.
99.
— Dorsal aspect of the maxillae of the same, X 56.
Fig.
100.
— Dorsal view of anterior end of Onuphis nebulosa, X 9.
Plate XIX.
— Ninoe gemmea, figs.
101-109.
Figs.
101-104.— Parapodia of V, XV, XXV and CXXV, respectively, profile outlines as seen from in front, X 33.
Fig.
105.
— Limbate seta from XXV, a and b , respectively, profile and f-face views, X 98.
Fig.
106.— Crochet from XXV, X 98 ; a, tip of another, X 250.
Fig.
107.— End of crochet from C, X 440.
Figs.
108, 109.
— Ventral view of mandibles and dorsal view of maxillae, respectively, of cotype (station 4,523), X 24.
Ninoe fusca, figs.
110-118.
Fig.
110.
— Prostomium and peristomium from above, X 9.
Figs.
111-113.
— Parapodia X, XXV and C, the first as seen from behind, the others from in front, X 82.
Fig.
114.
— Supra-acicular limbate seta from X, X 250.
Fig.
115.— Same from C, X 250.
Fig.
116.— Crochet from C, X 250.
Fig.
117.
— Dorsal view of mandibles, X 17.
Fig.
118.
— Ventral view of maxillae, X 17.
Lumbrineris japonica index, figs.
119-127.
Figs.
119-121.
— Parapodia X, C and CXVII, outlines as seen from in front, from.
cotype (station 4,406), X 33.
Fig.
122.— Dorsal limbate seta from X, X 98.
Fig.
123.
— Very slender dorsal seta from L of specimen from station 4,405, X 98.
Fig.
124.
— Compound crochet from XX, X 250; a, head of same, X 440.
Fig.
125.— Crochet of somite XLVI, X 250.
Fig.
126.
— Mandibles from dorsum, X 9.
Fig.
127.
— Maxillae from venter, X 9.
All figures except 123 from cotvpe (station 4,406).
Lumbrineris inflata, figs.
128-132.
Figs.
128-129.
— Outlines of parapodia X and C, as seen from in front, X 56.
Fig.
130.
— Two limbate setae from X in profile and face views, X 250.
Fig.
131.
— Compound crochet from X. X 440.
Fig.
132.
— Simple crochet from C, X 440.
Plate XX.
— Lumbrineris inflata, figs.
133 and 134 (cotype, station 4,496).
Fig.
133.
— Ventral view of mandibles, X 83.
Fig.
134.
— Dorsal view of maxillae, X 83.
Lumbrineris bifilaris, figs.
135-142.
Figs.
135-137.
— Outlines of anterior aspects of parapodia X, C and CCL, X 33.
Fig.
138.
— Profile of ventral and face view of dorsal limbate seta from somite X, X 98.
Fig.
139.
— Limbate crochet from somite V, f-face view, X 250; a, profile view of tip of another, X 440.
Fig.
140.
— End of simple hooded crochet from C, X 250.
Fig.
141.
— Ventral view of mandibles of cotype (station 4,485), X 9.
Fig.
142.
— Maxillae of same, forceps jaws dorsal, other pieces ventral, X 9, Aracoda semimaculata, figs.
143-149.
Figs.
143-145.
— Parapodia X, C and CCL, from in front, X 33.
Fig.
146.
— Dorsal seta from X, X 250.
Fig.
147.— Middle seta from LXXV, X 250.
Fig.
148.
— Outline of mandibles of cotype (station 4,496), — 17.
Fig.
149.
— Maxillae of the same from the dorsal aspect, X 17.
Ill, IV and V indicate maxilla; IV, V, and VI respectively, maxilla III being unlabeled.
Drilonereis falcata, figs.
150-154.
Fig.
150.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium X of cotype, X 56.
Fig.
151.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium C, X 83.
Fig.
152.— Seta from XXV, X 440.
Fig.
153.
— Mandibles of cotype (station 4,460) from the dorsum, X 33.
Fig.
154.
— Maxillae of same from venter, X 33.
Glycera branchiopoda, figs.
155 and 156.
Fig.
155.
— The three forms of proboscis papilla?
from a cotype (station 4,517), a, c and c, respectively, X 250.
Fig.
156.
— Jaw appendage of the same, X 56.
Plate XXI.
— Glycera branchiopoda, figs.
157-159.
Figs.
157-159'.
— Parapodia X, L and C, respectively, the first and last in caudal aspect, X 40, L in cephalic aspect, X 24.
Glycinde armigera, figs.
160-171.
Fig.
160.
— Dorsal view of prostomium of cotype (station 4,310), X 56.
Figs.
161-163.
— Anterior aspects of parapodia V, XXV and C (concealed outlines dotted), X 56.
Fig.
164.
— Part of a shorter ventral neuropodial seta from XXX, X 400.
Fig.
165.
— Exposed portion of a notopodial seta from XXX, X 400.
Fig.
166.
— Elements of the circle of jaws; a, large ventral jaw, X 125; b, one from the dorsal arch, X 250; c, c, two forms of smaller size from the dorsal arch, X 250.
Fig.
167.
— Large paragnaths from the ventral bands, in profile and top view, X 250.
Fig.
168.
— Profile and top views of small papillae (paragnaths) from ventral bands, X 250.
Fig.
169.
— Two papillae (paragnaths) from dorsal bands near jaws, X 98.
Fig.
170.
— Large bifid paragnath from dorsal bands, X 250.
Fig.
171.— Two of the small scattered papillae, X 250.
Figs.
166-171 are drawn from a cotype (station 4,548).
Aricia nuda, figs.
172-176.
Fig.
172.
— Outline of parapodium and gill of X from behind, X 17.
Fig.
173.— Same of L from in front, X 24.
Fig.
174.
— Large dorsal neuropodial spine with gland and cirrus from XV, ^ X 56.
Fig.
175.
— Small portion of base of neuropodial of X; a, from the side; b, from front, X 600.
Fig.
176.
— Hooded spine from ventral part of neuropodium of XV, X 250.
RECORDS AND DESCRIPTIONS OF AFRICAN MANTIDJE AND PHASMIDJE (ORTHOPTERA).
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The material on which the following notes were based is chiefly from Harrar, Abyssinia, the Kikuyu Escarpment and Mombasa, British East Africa, and Mossamedes, Angola.
Aside from the Mombasa series which belongs to the Hebard Collection, the material is almost entirely contained in the Academy collection.
In addition to data on the material from the localities given above, supplementary notes are here given on certain Northeast African Mantidse previously reported upon in these Proceedings.
1 The author wishes to thank Mr. Morgan Hebard for the opportunity to examine the small but interesting Mombasa series from his collection.
MANTIDuSE.
ORTHODERIN.E.
EL.EA St&l.
Elaea marchali (Reiche and Fairmaire).
1847.
E[remiaphila] marchali Reiche and Fairmaire, in Ferret and Galinier, Voy.
en Abyssinie, III, p. 424, Zool., pi.
27, fig.
5.
[Locality implied: Abyssinia.]
Harrar, Abyssinia.
One female.
TARACHODES Burmeister.
Tarachodes karschii Werner.
1907.
Tarachodes Karschii Werner, Sitzungsb.
K. Akad.
Wissensch., Wien, Math.-nat.
KL, CXVI, Heft II, Abt.
I, p. 212.
[Bondei and Dar-esSalaam, German East Africa; coast of German East Africa; Lake Tanganyika.]
Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa.
Two males.
These specimens apparently are not separable from the typical material of the species.
It might be mentioned that the spines on the internal face of the cephalic femora and tibiae are black to their bases, instead of black-tipped as are the external spines on the same limbs.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, pp.
276-288.
This record connects the original localities with nine recent records by the original author from Danakil and Abyssinia.
Tarachodes aestuans Saussure.
1895.
T[arachodes] ccstuans Saussure, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat., Genova, XXXV, p. 91.
[Laffarugh, Ogaden, Somaliland.]
1901.
Tarachodes smithi Rehn [ 9 not (J 1 ], Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 278.
[Tug Berka, Somaliland.]
After re-examination and comparison with representatives of a number of species of this genus, the immature female formerly placed under T. smithi has been found to be distinct from the male, and as far as possible to determine in its condition should be referred to Saussure's species.
Tarachodes smithi Rehn.
1901.
Tarachodes smithi Rehn [c?
not $ ], Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 278.
[Tug Terfa, Somaliland.]
1907.
Tarachodes taramassi Giglio-Tos.
Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
ed Anat.
Comp., Torino, XXII, nr.
563, p. 5.
[Mogadisciu, Somaliland.]
This species is found on re-examination to be quite distinct from any of the older forms, its closest relationship doubtless being with T. media Schulthess, while its general slender form and nonrugose integument strongly suggests species of Galepsus, but the shape and proportions of the head are essentially those of Tarachodes.
The description of Iaramassi agrees fully with the male type of smithi.
GALEPSUS Stal.
Galepsus capitatus (Saussure).
1871.
Ch[iropacha] capitata Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologiques, III, p. 166, PI.
4, fig.
2.
[Africa.]
Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa.
One male.
This species has been recorded from a number of localities extending from Delagoa Bay to Abyssinia and from Zanzibar to the Congo.
Galepsus meridionalis form montanus Werner.
1907.
G[alepsus] meridionalis var.
montana Werner, Sitzungsb.
K. Akad.
Wissensch., Wien, Math.-natur.
Kl.,CXVI,Heft II, Abt.
I, p. 220.
[Between Taveta and Meru;] Kilimanjaro.]
Mombasa, British East Africa.
Five males.
[Hebard Collection.]
These specimens agree very well with the brief original description of this form, which is apparently a geographic race.
The measurements of the pronotum show extremes of 5.8 x 2.5 mm.
and 6.5 x 3, while the tegmina are uniformly slightly longer than the original measurement, ranging from IS to 18.5 mm., against the original 15.4.
1911.]
321 MANTIN^E.
ENTELLA Stal.
Entella usambarica Sjostedt.
1909.
Entella usambarica Sjostedt, Wissensch.
Ergebn.
Schw.
Zool.
Exp.
Kiiimandj.
Meru, XVII, p. 58, PI.
4, fig.
8.
[Mombo, Usambara.]
Mombasa, British East Africa.
Three males.
[Hebard Collection.]
These specimens agree very well with the description of this species.
The amount of blackish maculations on the head, pronotum and limbs is very variable, differing in some degree in all three specimens.
It is quite possible that E. lampeni Werner 2 from Tanga, Usambara, is the female of this species.
P0LYSPIL0TA Burmeister.
Polyspilota variegata (Olivier).
1792.
Mantis variegata Olivier, Encycl.
Meth., Ins., VII, p. 638.
[Angola.]
South Africa.
One male.
Merule to Murchison Falls, Uganda.
One adult and one immature female.
Mombasa.
(Hebard Collection.)
One male, one female.
The South African male and the Mombasa male belong to the color-form pustulata as defined by Werner, 3 the Uganda and Mombasa female to color-form striata.
Indications seem to point to the fact that east and south African individuals of variegata are larger than west African (forest land) specimens.
Liberian specimens average very small, and specimens from the eastern edge of the great forest, west of Albert Nyanza, recorded by the author 4 are very similar.
Luebo, Congo, specimens, however, are like southern individuals.
The specimens in the present series measure as follows : Uganda.
Mombasa.
Mombasa.
South Africa.
9.
9 .
<?.
&.
Length of body, .
78.0 mm.
74.0 mm.
71.0 mm.
63.5 mm.
Greatest width of head, 9.0 a 9.8 n 8.2 a 7.5 " Length of pronotum, .
23.8 a 25.0 a 23.0 a 17.2 " Greatest width of pronotum, .... 7.5 a 8.0 a 6.3 ti 5.5 " Length of tegmen, 61.0 a 6.2 it 57.0 tt 50+ " Length of cephalic femur, .... 18.2 a 20.0 it 16.2 a 13.0 " 2 Jahresb.
Ver.
Vaterland.
Naturk.
Wilrttemberg, LXII, p. 364.
3 Bericht Senckenb.
Naturf.
Gesell., 1908, p. 38.
4 Ergebn.
Deutsch.
Cent.-Afr.
Exped.
1907-1908, unter Fuhrung Adolf Fried.
Herzog zu Mecklenburg, Zool., Orthoptera.
SPHODROMANTIS Stal.
Sphodromantis rudolfae (Rehn).
1901.
Sphodropoda rudolfoe Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 282.
[Near southern end of Lake Rudolf, western Gallaland.]
Harrar, Abyssinia.
One male.
This form, which may be merely a geographic race of S. bioculata, differs from the latter in the generally smaller size, broader head, breadth of pronotum, and shorter pronotum, cephalic femora and tegmina, which latter in the female fall considerably short of the apex of the abdomen.
The Harrar male measures as follows: length of body, 42.5 mm.
; greatest width of head, 6.8; length of pronotum, 11.5; greatest width of pronotum, 4.2; length of tegmen, 35; length of cephalic femur, 10.
Sphodromantis lineola (Burrueister).
1838.
M[antis (Stagmatoptera)] lineola Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., II.
Abth.
II, Pt.
1, p. 537.
[Sierra Leone.]
Mombasa.
One male.
[Hebard Collection.]
This specimen is almost uniform greenish-yellow in color.
HOPLOCORYPHA St&l.
Hoplocorypha galeata (Gerstaecker).
1870.
Mantis (Danuria ?)
galeata Gerstaecker, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, XXXV, p. 210.
[Lake Jipe, German East Africa.]
German East Africa.
One male, one female.
Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa.
Two immature females.
Hoplocorypha macra (Stal).
1856.
[Mantis] macra Stal, Ofv.
K. Vet.-Akad.
Forh., XIII, p. 169.
[Port, Natal.]
Merule to Murchison Falls, Uganda.
One female.
Mombasa, B. E. Africa.
One female.
[Hebard Collection.]
Zambesia.
One female.
Transvaal.
(C. W.
Howard.)
Two males.
Mossamedes, Angola.
One female.
From the evidence of this material it appears that this species ranges north along the east coast to Mombasa and in the interior to Uganda.
It is probable that it is not found in the same region as Gerstaecker's galeata, which may be restricted to the more elevated regions of East Africa, although the evidence is too slight to make any deductions.
However, the above facts may explain the inability of some previous authors to separate East African material presumed to represent galeata from South African examples of macra.
CALIDOMANTIS Rehn.
Calidomantis affinis (Sjostedt).
1909.
Miomantis affinis Sjostedt, Wissensch.
Ergebn.
Schw.
Zool.
Exp.
Kilimandj.
Meru, XVII, p. 63.
[Kibonoto, Lower Culture-zone, Kilimanjaro.]
Kikuyu Escarpment, Brit.
East Africa.
Two males.
These specimens show that this form is very close to C. quadripunctata Saussure, differing chiefly in the greater size.
The dimensions of these specimens are as follows: Length of body, .
.
.
35.0 mm.
36.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 9.5 " 10.
S Greatest width of pronotum, 2.2 " 2.5 Length of tegmen, 30.0 " 31.0 Length of cephalic femur, 7.8 " 8.2 The original description and the above record constitute all we know of the species.
Calidomantis kilimandjarica (Sjostedt).
1909.
Miomantis kilimandjarica Sjostedt, Wissensch.
Ergebn.
Schwed.
Zoolog.
Exped.
Kilimandj.
Meru, XVII, p. 64.
[Kibonoto Culturezone, Lower Culture-zone, Kilimanjaro.]
German East Africa.
One male.
This specimen is in the brown phase, with much of the body sprinkled with dark brown.
In size it is less than the type measurements, its dimensions being as follows: length of body, 28.5; width of head, 3.8; length of pronotum, 7.5; greatest width of pronotum, 1.6; length of tegmen, 22; length of cephalic femur, 6.2.
A male specimen from Mgunda, German East Africa (Langheld), taken December, 1895, belonging to the Berlin Museum, has also been examined.
Calidomantis pharaonica (Saussure).
1898.
M[iomantis] pharaonica Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, V, p. 193.
[Egypt; Senaar.]
Merule to Murchison Falls, Uganda.
One male.
Werner 5 has recorded this species from the Bahr-el-Gebel (Station Bor) region.
0XY0PHTHALMUS Saussure.
Oxyophthalmus somalicus n. sp.
1901.
Oxyophthalma gracila Rehn (not of Saussure, 1861), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 286.
[Bodele, Tug Terfa, Somaliland.]
Type: d\Bodele, Tug Terfa, Somaliland.
August 20, 1894.
(Dr. A. Donaldson Smith.)
[A. N. S. P., type No.
5166.]
8 Sitzungsb.
K. Akad.
Wissensch., Wien, Math.-nat.
Kl., CXVI, Abt.
1, p. 240.
324 [April.
This specimen is clearly a representative of the genus Oxyophthalmus, which otherwise is only known from India and Ceylon, and does not belong to Paroxyophthalmus collaris (Saussure) as surmised by Werner.
6 The form of the pronotum is decidedly the subequal nonattenuate type found in Oxyophthalmus.
This species differs from gracilis, the type of the genus, in having the head less arcuate emarginate dorsad, the eyes less produced with divergent points, the pronotum shorter and the face distinctively colored.
Size small; form slender.
Head with the exposed dorsal length contained about three and one-half times in the length of the pronotum, occipital line moderately subarcuate emarginate, the greater (median) portion being truncate; ocelli large, arranged in a triangle; facial shield slightly higher than broad, dorsal margin very narrowly produced mesad, slightly arcuato-emarginate ventrad of each antennal base, lateral and ventral margins subtruncate; antennae at least two-thirds as long as the body (incomplete in type) ; eyes elongato-ovate in basal outline, not prominent laterad, but slightly produced and bluntly mammillate dorsad, the corneal points divergent.
Pronotum elongate, roughly subequal, collar about as broad as the supracoxal width, shaft slightly narrower than the width of cephalic portion of pronotum, cephalic margin of same moderately arcuate, caudal margin arcuate laterad, truncate mesad ; no medio-longitudinal sulcus or carina present; greatest pronotal width contained slightly more than three times in the length.
Tegmina equal to twice the length of the head and pronotum together, narrow, hyaline; costal field broad in proximal half; apex narrowly rounded.
Wings extending beyond tegmina a distance equal to the exposed dorsal length of head ; apex narrowly rounded.
Apex of abdomen mutilated.
Cephalic coxse not quite reaching to the caudal margin of pronotum, cephalic margin unarmed ; cephalic femora slightly exceeding coxae in length, slender, dorsal margin slightly arcuate in proximal two-thirds, discoidal spines four in number and placed 6 Sitzungsb.
K. Akad.
Wissensch., Wien, Math.-nat.
KL, CXVI, Abt, 1, p. 256.
Fig.
1.
— Oxyophthalmus somalicus n. sp.
Dorsal view of head, pronotum and cephalic limb.
(X 6.)
proximad, external spines five in number (including distal one), internal spines eleven in number, the distal one separated from the others by a considerable interval ventrad of the femoral brushes; cephalic tibise (exclusive of claw) equal to about threefifths of the femoral length, armed externally with ten spines, internally with ten to eleven spines ; cephalic tarsi very long and slender, the length being more than one and a half times the tibial length, metatarsi alone about threefourths the tibial length.
Median limbs very short, femora being no longer than the cephalic coxa?.
Caudal limbs of medium length, femora slightly inflated in proximal half; 7 tarsi equal to three-fifths of the tibial length.
General color clay-color, the dorsum of the pronotum and the middle of the dorsum of head washed with drab and the cephalic limbs largely gamboge-yellow.
Face bistre ventrad ; from the antennal bases extend ventrad a pair of parallel straw-yellow lines; antennas of the same color; eyes obscurely barred with bistre.
Tegmina and wings very pale brownish hyaline.
Cephalic coxse clear gambogeyellow; trochanter and femora lined ventro-laterad with bistre, finely clotted with same dorsad; tibiae thickly sprinkled with bistre; all spines tipped with dark brown.
Median and caudal femora thickly punctate with bistre which is arranged more or less in longitudinal series.
Measurements.
Length of body (abdomen incomplete), 23.0 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6.2 " Greatest width of pronotum, 1.8 " Length of tegmen, 17.0 " Length of cephalic, femur, 4.2 " Length of median femur, 3.0 " Length of caudal femur, 5.2 " The type is unique.
EPISCOPUS Saussure.
Episoopus ohalybseus (Burrneister).
1838.
Sch[izocephala] chalybcea Burrneister, Handb.
d.
Entom., Bd.
II, Abth.
II, Pt.
1, p. 552.
[Locality unknown.]
Kikuyu Escarpment, Brit.
East Africa.
One male.
Apparently this is the only exact record of the occurrence of the species in East Africa.
7 This may indicate considerable saltatorial ability as found in the genus Yersinia, which has similarly subinflated femora.
326 [April, CAR VI LI A St&L Carvilia agrionina (Gerstaecker).
1869.
Mantis (Photina) agrionina Gerstaecker, Archiv fur Naturgesch.. XXXV, p. 209.
[Mombasa.]
1898.
Paras phendale minor Schulthess-Schindler, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat., Genova, XXXIX, p. 177.
[Webi River, Ogaden, Biduara, Errer, Somaliland.]
1901.
Parasphendale minor Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 285.
[Sheikh Husein and Tulu, Gallaland.]
Kikuyu Escarpment, Brit.
East Africa.
One immature male.
Harrar, Abyssinia.
One female.
This latter specimen and the Sheikh Husein individual referred to above measure as follows : Length of body, ....
Greatest width of head, Length of pronotum, Greatest width of pronotum, Length of tegmen, .
Length of cephalic femur, .
Sheikh Harrar $ .
Husein 9 53.0 mm.
45.0 mm.
9 0" 8.0 " 18.2 " 16.2 " 5.5 " 5.0 " 20.5 " 17.5 " 15.0 " 13.5 " The form minor of Schulthess does not appear separable specifically from Gerstaecker's species, the Sheikh Husein individual being nearly topotypic of minor, and both this and the Harrar specimen are inseparable from material from the region to the south.
Werner has recorded this species from the vicinity of Harrar and from Djildessa on the border region of Somali and Galla lands.
CREOBOTRIN^E.
OXYPILUS Serville.
Oxypilus oapensis (Saussure).
1871.
Ox[ypihis] capensis Saussure, Melanges Orthopter., Ill, p. 317, PI.
6, figs.
52, 52a.
[Cape of Good Hope.]
German East Africa.
One female.
This specimen / when compared with individuals of O. annulatus Serville, shows that the two species are closely related, differing chiefly in the more inflated median portion of the pronotum in capensis, which also has the pronotal tubercles more numerous.
HARPAGOMANTIS Kirby.
Harpagomantis tricolor (Linnaeus).
1758.
[GryUus (Mantis) ] tricolor Linnaeus, Syst.
Nat., X ed., I, p. 426.
["Indiis."]
South Africa.
Three females.
Johannesburg, Transvaal, 6,000 feet.
JanuaryApril, 1899.
(J. P.
Cregoe.)
Two adult females, one immature female.
1911.]
327 JALLA Giglio-Tos.
Jalla radiosa Giglio-Tos.
1907.
J[alla] radiosa Giglio-Tos, Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
ed Anat.
Comp., Torino, XXII, nr.
563, p. 14.
[Kazungula, Upper Zambesi.]
Zambesia.
One female.
This hitherto unique genus and species is a most peculiar member of the Vatinae, showing no close relationship to any of the other genera.
The general outline of the pronotum is strikingly like that of the Orthoderine genera Humbertiella and Theopompa, but the excrescences and spines are radically different from anything found in those genera, while the other characters show no sort of analogous development.
As this is the first recognized female of the genus, a few notes made in comparison with the description of the male may be of service : Ocelli smaller (sexual).
Pronotum less distinctly medio-longitudinally sulcate caudad; margins of same non-ciliate.
Tegmina short, reaching but half-way to the apex of the abdomen, ovate, coriaceous, apex broadly rounded ; costal field rather narrow, this area, the region of the principal veins and the apical region with a number of scattered tuberculiform excrescences.
Wings very slightly surpassing the tips of the tegmina, the exposed area of similar coriaceous structure to that of the tegmina.
Internal cephalic femoral margin with fourteen spines, including the distal one; internal cephalic tibial margin with ten spines, exclusive of apical claw; abdomen strongly depressed, lateral angles rotundato-rectangulate, dorsal surface with longitudinal series of linear tubercles on the caudal portion of the segments.
Length of body, Length of pronotum, .
Greatest width of pronotum, Length of tegmen, .
Greatest width of tegmen Length of cephalic femur.
Measurements.
.
.
38.0 mm .
.
9.5 " j .
.
6.8 " .
.
13.5 " .
.
7.6 " .
.
12.0 " IDOLOMORPHA Burmeister.
Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure and Zehntner.
1895.
Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure and Zehntner, in Grandidier, Hist.
Phys.
Nat.
et Polit.
Madagascar, Orth., Blatt.-Mant., pp.
242, 244.
[Zanzibar.]
Mombasa.
One female.
[Hebard Collection.]
This species, the only East African one of the genus, is known to range from Delagoa Bay to the White Nile and the Ogaden country.
BLEPHAROPSIS Rehn.
Blepharopsis mendica (Fabricius).
1775.
[Mantis] mendica Fabricius, Syst.
Entom., p. 275.
[Alexandria, Egypt.]
Gafsa, Tunis.
One female.
[Hebard Collection.]
The distribution of this species in Africa is quite extensive, apparently covering all of the northern third of the continent, as it has been recorded from the Canaries, Senegambia, Tunis, Egypt, Nubia, Schoa, Kordofan, Abyssinia and Somaliland.
It also occurs in Syria and Arabia.
IDOLUM Saussure.
Idolum diabolicum Saussure.
1870.
I[dolum] diabolicum Saussure, Mitth.
Schw.
Ent.'Gesell.^III^pp.
223.
[Africa.]
German East Africa.
One immature female.
PHASMID^S.
BACILLIN.E. '
XYLICA Karsch.
Xylica kikuyuensis n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa.
[Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., type No.
5,170.]
Allied to X. abbreviata Redtenbacher from Ukami Mountains, German East Africa, and caligulata Redtenbacher from Zanzibar, differing from both in the peculiar development of the dorsal surface of the fifth abdominal segment and the smaller size, also from abbreviata in the shorter and more robust mesothorax, metathorax and limbs and from caligulata in the simpler and more usual type of operculum.
The cephalic metatarsi show some indications of the cristation found in caligulata, while the antennal length is the same as in abbreviata, although the coloration of the latter is as found in kilimandjarica Sjostedt, from which kikuyuensis can be immediately separated by the form of the fifth abdominal segment and the longer antennae.
Size medium; form fairly robust; surface granulose and rugulose.
Head distinctly longer than the prothorax, slightly longer than broad, surface with numerous granular tubercles; cephalic horns two in number, prominent, sharp, divergent; occipital margin laterally with sulci separating decided trigonal elevations from the low median 1911.]
329 Fig.
2.
— Xylica kikuyuensis n. sp.
Dorsal outline of fifth abdominal segment ($).
(X 5.)
paired tubercles; eyes elliptical, prominent; antennae subequal to the cephalic femora in length, composed of twenty joints, proximal one compressed, lamellate.
Prothorax slightly longitudinal, rectagonal, caudal margin with a median pair of tubercles.
Mesothorax slightly less than three times the length of the prothorax, subequal to the prothorax except caudad where it is somewhat expanded, medio-longitudinal carina distinct and continuous over the metathorax as well; supplementary carinas reaching about to middle of segment, sinuate, lateral margins undulato-carinate.
Metathorax about twothirds the length of mesothorax, much similar in character, but with the supplementary carinas reaching about to the median segment, then curving laterad; median segment comprising twofifths of the total metathoracic length, imperfectly defined, very slightly transverse, supplied caudad with paired tubercles as on the mesonotum.
Abdomen with distinct median and supplementary longitudinal carinas, as well as more or less complete lateral ones and numerous short ruga?
; each of the four proximal segments with a caudal pair of tubercles, as on the mesonotum and median segment ; median carina on fifth to eighth segment cristate sublamellate; fifth dorsal abdominal segment supplied with paired horizontal dentate lobes developed on each side of the base of the median crest; anal segment obtuseangulate distad; cerci broad, depressed, apex acute ; subgenital operculum spoon-shaped, carinate ventrad, apically margin acute-angulate, the immediate apex rounded.
Mesosternum distinctly medio-longitudinally carinate.
Cephalic limbs short; femora decidedly compressed, proximal flexure very marked; tibia?
slightly longer than the femora, compressed ; metatarsi subcristate.
Median limbs very short, femora not as long as the mesothorax.
Caudal limbs short, femora compressed.
General color probably pale greenish in life, some of the insect being now of this color, the remainder undoubtedly discolored and of a dull brownish.
Antenna?
annulate more or less regularly on alternate segments with Vandyke brown ; eyes walnutbrown, crossed by one of several lateral longitudinal lines of Vandyke brown.
Cephalic tibia?
tipped with dark brown.
Vicinity of cephalic horns and internal portion of proximal extremity of cephalic femora pinkish.
22 Fig.
3.
— Xylica kikuyuensis n. sp.
Lateral outline of apex of abdomen ($).
(X3.)
tt It u a a it Measurements.
Length of body, 41.0 mm.
Length of prothorax, 3.0 Length of mesothorax, 8.5 Length of metathorax, 6.0 Length of cephalic femur, 11.0 Length of median femur, 6.5 Length of caudal femur, 8.5 The type is unique.
CLITUMNIN^E.
GRATIDIA st&i.
Gratidia montana Brunner.
1907.
Gr\atidid\ montana Brunner, Die Insektenf.
Phasm., II, p. 223.
[Kilimanjaro; Abyssinia.]
Tanga, German East Africa.
One female.
Sjostedt has recently recorded this species 8 from the lower culturezone of Kibonoto, Kilimanjaro and from Meru, also adding additional notes on the structure of the sexes.
The specimen in hand is larger than any previously measured from German East Africa, the dimensions being as follows : length of body 84.5 mm.
; length of prothorax 2.8 ; length of mesothorax 17 ; length of metathorax 15 ; length of cephalic femur 27; length of median femur 19; length of caudal femur 25.
Gratidia nebulosipes n. sp.
Type: cJ 1 ; Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa.
[Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., type No.
5,171.]
Allied to G. fissa Karsch from German East Africa, but differing in the non-dilated apex of the but marginally excised process of the anal segment and in the shorter thoracic segments and limbs.
Some relationship exists to G. tenuis Sjostedt 9 but the narrower process of the anal segment and less produced character of the same will at once separate the new form.
Size rather small; form slender; limbs but moderately elongate.
Head but slightly longer than the prothorax, very slightly narrowed caudad, the interocular transverse low inflation and the fine medio-longitudinal sulcus as in numerous other species of the genus; occipital margin slightly produced into a pair of median very low Fig.
4.— Gratidia nebulosipes subtrigonal tubercles; eyes subglobose, n. sp.
Dorsal view of apex of J ° ' abdomen (cT).
(X 6.)
slightly flattened; antennae half the length of the cephalic femora, seven*♦»a Wissen.
Ergebn.
Schwed.
Zoo!.
Exp.
Kilimandj.
u. Meru, XVII, p. 84.
9 Wissen.
Ergebn.
Schwed.
Zool.
Exped.
Kilimandjaro u. Meru, XVII, p. 85, fig.
5.
[Kilimanjaro, Meru and Usambara.]
teen-jointed.
Prothorax with the lateral pronotal margins sub-parallel, slightly in-bent cephalad and caudad, cephalic margin of pronotum subarcuate emarginate, caudal margin of same subtruncate, transverse sulcus di.stinctly impressed mesad.
Mesothorax three-fourths the length of the median femora, supplied with a fine medio-longitudinal cannula.
Metathorax slightly shorter than the mesothorax, with a similar extremely weak cannula; median segment subquadrate.
Abdomen of moderate length, the segments longitudinal, but not excessively prolonged, toward apex of the abdomen lateral and median carinulae are faintly indicated ; anal segment fornicate, produced mesocaudad, the projection being not a half the length of the segment itself, dorsal surface with a distinct medio-longitudinal carina more distinct on the process, lateral margins regularly converging from the cereal bases caudad, the apex of the process shallowly V-emarginate ; cerci inserted at the middle of the segment proper, narrowest in the premedian section, distal extremity enlarged, subclavate and trigonal in section, immediate apex bluntly acute, when viewed from the dorsum the cerci are seen to be strongly arcuate in the proximal half; subgenital plate hardly inflated, reaching to the base of the anal segment, distal margin arcuate with a pair of small, short, rotundate median lobes, a weak medio-longitudinal carina present on distal half of plate.
Cephalic femora almost equal to the head and thoracic segments in length; cephalic tibiae exceeding the femoral length by about the length of the head.
Fig .
5 _ G ra tidia nebulosipes Median femora not exceeding the pron.sp.
Lateral outline of apex ,, .
.
,, to *.
of abdomen (d 1 ).
(X 6.)
and mesothoraxin length; median tibiae slightly exceeding the femora.
Caudal femora equal to twothirds the length of the cephalic femora; caudal tibiae exceeding the femora by slightly less than the length of the head.
General color Prout's brown, becoming bistre towards the apex of the abdomen, the latter region sparingly marked with hoary white.
Head and prothorax with the base color near wood-brown, indistinct postocular bars of the general color present; antennae drab.
Limbs clouded and varied with the general color, tawny-olive and soiled buff.
Measurements.
Length of body, 46 .
mm.
Length of prothorax, 2.2 " Length of mesothorax, 9.0 " Length of metathorax, 8.2 " Length of cephalic femur, .
.
21.0 " Length of median femur, 10.8 " Length of caudal femur, 14 .
5 Two paratypic males show that the species probably varies little in size and structure, but considerably so in color.
The general color lightens to general wood-brown tints and also toward greenish; in the former phase the legs are hardly clouded, while in the latter the dark shades remain as in the type, and the clouding is, in consequence, of even greater contrast.
LEPTYNIA Pantel.
1890.
Leptynia Pantel, An.
Soc.
E8pafi.
Hist.
Nat., XIX, p. 3S5.
Apparently Maransis Karsch (Entom.
Nachrich., XXIV, pp.
365, 381, 1898) should be referred to this genus as a synonym.
Leptynia rufolineatus (Schulthess).
1899.
M[aransis] rufolineatus Schulthess, Bull.
Soc.
Vaudoise Sci.
Nat., Lausanne, XXXV, p. 200, PI.
VIII, fig.
4.
[Delagoa.]
1904.
Maransis rufolineatus Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, p. 83.
[Zulu Mission, South Africa.]
This species should be placed in the vicinity of L. prospera Brunner and aspericollis (Bates), to both of which it is extremely close, if really separable from one or the other.
Brunner in his monograph has omitted this species as well as the related mozambicus Westwood and trilineatus Stal.
Leptynia senex n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa.
[Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., type No.
5,172.]
In the sublobate median femora this species shows relationship to L. pluto Rehn 10 from Lake Kivu, but the more robust and hoary granulate body, the longer operculum and more compressed and apically emarginate anal segment are distinctive of senex.
Size rather large; form moderately elongate; surface of thorax irregularly and bluntly granulate.
Head slightly more than half again as long as the prothorax, gradually narrowing caudad; interocular region slightly inflated; occipital margin slightly impressed mesad; eyes subelliptical in basal outline, hardly prominent ; antennae Fig.
6.
— Leptynia senex n. sp.
Lateral outline of apex of abdomen ( ?
).
(X 6.)
10 In Ergebnisse der Deutschen Cent.-Afr.
Exped.
1907-1908, unter Fiihrung Adolf Friedrichs, Herzog zu Mecklenburg, Zool., Orth.
(In press.)
contained about three and one-half times in the length of the cephalic femora, non-clavate, seventeen-jointed.
Prothorax with the dorsum narrowing to a premedian point of least width; cephalic margin gently arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin subtruncate.
Mesothorax very slightly exceeding the median femora in length, with an extremely faint median, and intimations of lateral, carinae.
Metathorax falling short of the mesothoracic length by nearly that of the prothorax, Fig.
7.
— Leptynia senex n. sp.
Ventral outline of apex of abdomen ( $ ).
(X 6.)
carinse as on the mesothorax; median segment strongly transverse poorly delimited cephalad.
Abdomen becoming progressively quinquecarinate caudad; segments, except proximal and distal ones, decidedly longitudinal; anal segment very slightly longer than the preceding abdominal segment, tectate dorsad, median carina sharp, caudal margin produced and moderately V-emarginate mesad, exposing the extreme apex of the supra-anal plate; cerci slightly more than half the greatest length of the anal segment, compressed, subequal, ventral margin straight, dorsal margin arcuate distad, the apex being ventrad, lateral face excavate and meclio-carinate; operculum lanceolate, reaching to the middle of the anal segment, non-carinate mesad, but with distinct sinuate lateral carinse in the proximal two-thirds; seventh ventral abdominal segment with prominent, paired, parallel median carinae, distal margin rectangulate.
Cephalic femora distinctly exceeding the head, proand mesothorax in length; tibiae slightly longer than the femora.
Median femora slightly shorter than the mesothorax, at the proximal third with a low rounded or biundulate lobe on each ventral margin, carinae unarmed ; tibiae subequal to the femora.
Caudal femora equal to the length of the proand mesothorax, unarmed and non-lobate; tibiae slightly exceeding the femoral length.
General color clove-brown, the thoracic tubercles, scattered spots on the dorsum of the head and abdomen and clouding of apex of latter hoary white.
Limbs finely grizzled with whitish, the vicinity of the cephalic flexure of the cephalic femora dull ochraceous.
334 [April, Measurements.
Length of body, 64 .
mm Length of prothorax, 2.8 Length of mesothor ax, 13.0 Length of metathorax (incl.
med.
segm.
), 11.0 Length of cephalic femur, 20 .
5 Length of median femur, 12.0 Length of caudal femur, 16.0 The type is unique.
PHTHOA Karsch.
Phthoa occidentalis n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Massamedes Province, Angola.
[Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., type No.
5,173.]
Differing from P. prolixa Karsch from Mpwapwa, German East Africa, the type and only other species in the genus, in the greater size and triangularly emarginate seventh ventral abdominal segment, which latter is supplied laterad with decidedly acute triangular lobes, instead of being shallowly arcuate emarginate as in prolixa.
Size rather large; form moderately elongate; surface smooth, an indistinct medio-longitudinal carina present.
Head about twice as long as the prothorax, distinctly narrowing caudad ; interocular region slightly inflated; occipital margin moderately impressed mesad; eyes subglobose, hardly prominent; antennae less than one-third the Fig.
8.
— Phthoa occidentalis n. sp.
Lateral view of apex of abdomen ( $ ).
(X 5.)
Fig.
9.
— Phthoa occidentalis n. sp.
abdomen ( $ ) .
Ventral view of apex of (X 5.)
length of the cephalic femora, seventeento eighteen-jointed.
Prothorax with the dorso-lateral margins sinuate and converging cephalad, cephalic margin arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin emarginatotruncate.
Mesothorax two-thirds the length of the cephalic femora.
Metathorax equal to three-fourths the mesothoracic length; median segment transverse, cephalic margin arcuate.
Abdomen with the median segments very strongly longitudinal; anal segment but slightly longer than the preceding abdominal segment, meso-carinate, caudal margin acute-angulate ; supra-anal plate small, tapering subdigitiform, horizontal; cerci about twice the length of the anal segment, subcompressed, terete; operculum elongate lanceolate, falling but little short of the tips of the cerci, carinate proximo-laterad ; seventh ventral abdominal segment slightly produced distad into a pair of divergent acute triangular looes, the interspace being V-shaped emarginate, surface of segment not carinate mesad.
Cephalic femora slightly exceeding the mesothoracic and twice the prothoracic length; tibiae exceeding the femora by about the prothoracic length.
Median femora unarmed and non-lobate, nearly equal to the proand meso" thoracic length; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora.
Caudal femora very slightly shorter than the median pair ; tibiae exceeding the femora by more than the prothoracic length.
Natural color destroyed by immersion in spirits.
Present coloration pale yellowish.
Measurements.
Length of body, 79.0 mm Length of prothorax, 2.5 Length of mesothor ax, 16.0 Length of metathorax (inch med.
segm.
), 12.5 Length of cephalic femur, 22 2 Length of median femur, 18.5 Length of caudal femur, 18.2 Length of operculum, 9.8 The type is the only representative of the species seen by us.
PHIBALOSOMINJv ISCHNOPODA Grandidier.
Ischnopoda reyi Grandidier.
1869.
Ischnopoda reyi Grandidier, Revue et Magasin de Zoolog., 2me ser., XXI, p. 292.
[Quilimane, Portuguese East Africa.]
German East Africa.
Two females.
FAUNA OF THE GATUN FORMATION, ISTHMUS OF PANAMABY AMOS P. BROWN AND HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The collection of fossils studied in this paper was made by one of us (Brown) during two visits to the Isthmus in April and in August, 1910.
With the exception of a tooth of a shark 1 and a few specimens of Oliva from Monkey Hill all come from the excavations for the locks at Gatun.
The Oliva taken at Monkey Hill is the same species found plentifully at the Gatun excavation.
The specimens were collected from dumps and fills along the railway as well as from the dumps in the vicinity of Gatun.
A rapid reconnaissance of the stratigraphy along the line of the railway from Colon to Empire and along the canal from Colon to Gatun seemed to indicate that the formations, from the highest exposures at Monkey Hill (Mount Hope) to the lowest that contain molluscan remains at Bohio, form one stratigraphic unit, the base of which is to be found at Bohio and the top at Monkey Hill.
This was the impression formed by a study of the stratigraphy on the ground.
As shown below, the study of the fossils collected, and a survey of the literature on the Isthmian formations, bears out his impression formed in the field.
The thickness of this Gatun formation is probably not much above 400 feet, judging from exposures and borings at Gatun.
It is dredged from the canal at more than four miles north of Gatun, being here encountered at 18 feet below water level.
If this is correct that the mollusk-bearing formations from Bohio to the sea at Colon form one stratigraphic unit (and they appear to be one f aunal unit) , the Gatun Formation will include beds that have been variously called Bohio, Gatun, Monkey Hill, Culebra and VamosVamos.
The recognition of Eocene in the Isthmian section rests upon fossils from the "Vamos a Vamos or Gatun beds" collected by Robert T. Hill and examined by Dr.
Win.
H. Dall.
These fossils occur as " pseudomorphs in calcite in a tough matrix, and difficult to extract in good condition."
The following Eocene (Claiborne) species were " noted on a rapid examination" 2 by Dr. Dall: 1 Carcharias megalodon Ag.
2 Bull.
Mus.
Camp.
Zool., vol.
28, p. 273.
The genera noted without specific identifications are such as are found in the Oligocene beds.
Lupia perovata Conrad.
Solarium alveatum Conrad.
Natica eminula Conrad.
To which the following were subsequently added : Corbula alabamiensis Lea.
Corbula gregorioi Cossmann.
The shell identified as Lupia perovata may turn out to be " Amaura" guppyi Gabb, of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, a species which resembles the Eocene form so closely that very well-preserved examples are necessary for their discrimination.
The genus Glyptostyla, represented by G. panamensis Dall, is known elsewhere only from the Upper Tejon Eocene of California, where a species very distinct from the Vamos a Yamos form occurs.
The condition of the calcite pseudomorphs at Gatun is often not favorable for exact determination, and it seems possible that some of the identifications with Claibornian species might be modified by the study of perfect examples.
3 The presence of a few Claibornian species belonging to genera not characteristically Eocene in a fauna predominantly Oligocene does not, it seems to us, justify a reference of the formation to the Eocene.
Until a longer list of Eocene species including some characteristic forms is made known, we are disposed to regard all of the known tertiary beds of the Canal Zone carrying molluscan fossils as Oligocene and as constituting one formation.
The exact position of the Gatun Formation among Antillean Oligocene formations cannot be fixed without a more complete list of the contained fossils than we now possess, but its approximate place is clear.
As Dall has shown, the Jamaican (Bowden) marl, by the absence of Orthaulax and the greater proportion of modern species, is probably somewhat later than the Santo Domingo beds.
The Gatun formation, as now imperfectly known, has decidedly more in common with the older and more remote Santo Domingan than with the later and geographically nearer Bowdenian.
It contains many species common to both beds, and a few show greater affinity to Bowden forms.
Some of the difference between the Isthmian and Santo Domingo faunas is doubtless due to local specific differentiation; possibly this factor may account for all the differences; yet on the whole we conclude that the Gatun fauna is slightly later than the Santo Domingo and earlier than the Bowden.
3 We express this possibility in view of the imperfection of the material and with all respect for Dr. Dall's opinion, which is justly considered authoritative in such matters.
Gatun species identical with those of Santo Domingo 22 Gatun species identical with those of Bowden 13 (Eight of the species are common to the Santo Domingo and Bowden beds.)
Gatun species more closely allied to those of Santo Domingo and Bowden than to any other known forms 20 Gatun species identical with those of Chipola 4 Gatun species identical with recent forms 6 Gatun species as yet known only from that formation 67 It will be noted that at least 40 per cent, of the 104 Gatun species now known are either identical with, or very closely related to, Santo Domingo forms.
A considerable proportion of the remaining species are certainly allied to those of Santo Domingo, but without exhaustive studies of the groups, their nearest affinities cannot readily be determined.
Of the 6 species identical with recent forms, 4 are Antillean, one inhabits both coasts and one the Pacific coast only.
It is obvious that in the Antillean and Isthmian Oligocene the ancestral stocks of a large part of the modern Antillean and Panamic faunas are present, genera now characteristically Panamic being especially well-developed, such as Cymia, Solenosteira, Strombina, Malea, Trachycardium of the belcheri group, dementia, Acila, Tesseracme, Cadulus of the dentalinus group, etc.
None of them are deep-water forms, and all are absent or rare in the curiously impoverished littoral Antillean fauna of the present time.
4 In the following list we have included all species reported from the Gatun beds.
Species marked with an asterisk (*) were not included in the collections we have studied.
With a few exceptions noted in the text, the other species listed are in the collection of the Academy.
Acknowledgments are due to Professor Win.
B. Scott and Mr. Gilbert Van Ingen for the privilege of studying a small series of Gatun specimens in the museum of Princeton University, collected in 1908 by Mr. Ward H. Farrington.
We would also acknowledge the courtesy of Dr. Wm.
H. Dall, in giving access to material in the U. S. National Museum.
Genera reported by Toula and Hill without specific identifications have not been inserted in the following list.
4 Hill's statement (Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., vol.
28, p. 265) that Pacific forms do not exist in the Antillean Oligocene is clearly at variance with the facts.
An important element in the littoral fauna of the Panamic province is directly traceable to Antillean Oligocene faunas, as the above list demonstrates.
ACTEONID^J.
*Bullina chipolana Dall.
Bullina (Abderospira) chipolana Dall, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XVIII, p. 32.
Chipola beds, Chipola River, Florida; near Gatun, Rowell (Dall).
SOAPHANDRIDiE.
*Volvulella sp.
undet.
Bulla (Volvula) cf.
oxytata Bush, Toula, Jahrbuch der Kaiserlich-Koniglichen Geologischen Reichsanstalt, LVIII, 1908 (April 15, 1909), p. 709, PL 28, fig.
4.
Gatun.
TEREBRID^l.
Terebra subsulcifera n. sp.
PI.
XXII, fig.
7.
The shell is slender, the diameter contained about 7^ times in the length, composed of about 15 whorls in a length of 31 mm.
Sculpture : A prominent band below the suture, fully one-third the width of the whorl ; below it, and separated by a sulcus, another Dand half as wide, below which there are weak, nearly obsolete spiral striae; the whole crossed by rather sharp vertical riblets narrower than their intervals.
These are very slightly oblique on the upper band, vertical on the sunken lower part of the whorl.
The riblets gradually weaken below the middle of the last whorl, leaving the base smooth.
The columella is strongly biplicate, the folds subobsolete at the aperture.
Length 31, diam.
7 mm.
This species has much in common with T. haitensis Dall, but it differs by having two columellar folds among other minor differences.
A comparison kindly made by Dr. Dall shows them to be distinct.
T. sulcifera Sowerby, of the Santo Dommgo Oligocene, is described as having a third subobsolete spiral sulcus, while the species under consideration has only two sulci.
Terebra gatunensie Toula.
PI.
XXII, fig.
2 ( x 23/ 2 ').
Terebra (Oxymeria) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 705, PI.
25, fig.
14.
This fine species reaches a length of 50 to 60 mm.
The subsutural band is about one-fourth the width of the whorl, with sculpture of straight, vertical ribs, and is followed by a rather wide furrow, below which there are seven rounded spiral cords, the upper one larger.
Fine, slightly bent, longitudinal ribs run from suture to suture over cords and intervals, forming rounded knots at the intersections.
These ribs are about twice as far apart as the spiral cords on the upper whorls, but on the later ones the cords and ribs are about equall} r spaced.
On the last whorl the siphonal fasciole is marked with rude growth-lines and lamellae and bounded by a keel.
Aperture narrow and long.
The specimen figured, broken at both ends, is 51 mm.
long, composed of 13 whorls.
Toula's description and figure were from a young shell.
Fig.
2 is typical.
Six specimens seen.
We doubt whether the following form is specifically distinct, so widely it varies in sculpture.
The recent T. panamensis Dall has some resemblance to this species.
A complete specimen measures, length 52, diam.
10.5 mm.
Terebra wolfgangi Toula.
PI.
XXII, figs.
1, 3-6 ( x 2%).
Terebra {Oxymeria) wolfgangi Toula, Jahrb., p. 705, PI.
28, fig.
7.
Very closely related to T. gatunensis, perhaps only a form of that species, from which it differs by having several weak spirals on the sutural band, running over ribs and intervals, and in the smaller number of spiral cords below the band, there being five, equally spaced, on the penultimate whorl, four on the median and upper whorls.
The rate of increase of the whorls is about the same as in T. gatunensis.
Judging from a number of incomplete shells, an adult of 50 mm.
length should have about 20 whorls, of which fully 3 form a narrow, high, smooth embryonic shell.
This species is somewhat related to the Pliocene and recent T. dislocata Say, and especially to the preceding species.
It varies widely in sculpture, as follows: 1.
Sutural band differentiated on the early whorls, but on the last 3 or 4 not set off from the other spirals by a deeper furrow; 4 spiral cords as wide as their intervals below it; vertical sculpture fine and low on the later whorls, weak in the intervals of the spirals.
One specimen (PI.
22, fig.
1).
2.
Typical form, described above, 2 specimens.
3.
Sutural band divided by one shallow sulcus in the intercostal spaces only.
Spiral cords unequal, three in a group, followed .by two separated by wider spaces.
Only 12 spirals on the last whorl below the band.
One specimen (figs.
3, 4).
4.
Sutural band with several spiral striae indenting the ribs and intervals.
Spiral cords unequally spaced.
Two specimens (figs.
5, 6).
Terebra gausapata n. sp.
PL XXII, figs.
8, 9.
A small, slowly tapering species, with very slightly convex whorls and well-impressed, undulating suture.
Sutural band limited by a deep, narrow sulcus and, like the rest of the whorl, sculptured with close, unequal, spiral threads.
There are three threads upon the band, eight below it.
There are fourteen high, rather narrow, longitudinal ribs on each whorl, the threads obsolete on their summits.
The imperfect shell figured measures, length 9, diam.
2.8 mm., of 6^ whorls.
OONID^J.
Conus concavitectum n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
5, 6.
A cone about twice as long as wide.
Spire very concavely conic or mucronate, the inner whorls forming a very steep, acute cone, its whorls carmate below the middle of each, sloping and usually marked with a faint impressed spiral line or two above the carina, or having several striae on the lower part of the slope, where the carina lies in the suture.
The last 3 or 4 whorls revolve nearly in a plane, are markedly concave, with the outer edge raised in an erect flange or keel, the concavity marked with one or several spiral threads and distinct, arched growth-stria?.
Last whorl slightly convex below the shoulder-angle, straight and slender below, marked below the middle with unequal, low spirals, most of them beaded.
Length 37.5, diam.
19 mm.
Incomplete adult shells are much larger, diam.
28 mm., with about 15 whorls.
This species differs from C. domingensis Gabb by having the outer edge of the later whorls raised in a flange and by the smooth, not tuberculate early whorls.
None of the larger specimens is complete.
Conus haytensis Sowb.
Conus haytensis Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 44.
A perfect, but small specimen, length 26 mm., agrees with Santo* Domingo examples. '
Conus domingensis Sowerby(?).
C. domingensis Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 45.
A fragment, the spire only, agrees well with this species, so far as it goes.
Conus consobrinus Sowb.
Conus consobrinus Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 45.
A Gatun specimen is about 30 mm.
long, of the highly sculptured typical form.
Conus granozonatus Guppy.
C. granozonatus Guppv, Quart.
Journ.
r Geol.
Soc.
Lond., XXII, p. 287, PI.
16, fig.
5.
C. gracilissimus Guppy, t. c, p. 28S, PI.
16, fig.
4.
Not uncommon at Gatun.
While closely related to C. consobrinus,.
this seems to be a distinct species.
In our series from Bowden the C. gracilissimus does not seem distinguishable specifically.
Couus emulator n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, flg.
9.
A cone related to alveatus Conr.
and imitator, differing from both in the very concavely conic spire.
Whorls slightly concave above, with about 3 spiral strise; not tuberculate, last whorl decidedly convex below the shoulder, its lower half spirally striate, the striae unequal, not beaded.
The outer lip is much less retracted above than in alveatus.
Length 22.5, diam.
12.8 mm.
; whorls about 9.
The single specimen is a pseudomorph in calcite.
It differs from C. domingensis by the nontuberculate early whorls.
Conus imitator n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, fig.
4.
A cone about twice as long as wide, the spire forming about onefourth of the length.
The spire is concave and acuminate in the upper third, the first 3 whorls smooth, the next 4 or 5 whorls having a smooth carina projecting above the suture, the first 2\ of them tuberculate, after which the carina is smooth; following whorls less steeply sloping, very slightly concave, marked with fine growth-lines and a few weak spiral strise, slightly prominent at the sutures.
Last whorl acutely carinate, the slope below the angle almost straight, but just perceptibly convex in the upper, concave in the lower half, which is sculptured with about 16 rather strong spiral cords.
The outer lip arches strongly forward and is deeply retracted at the upper end.
Length 35, diam.
17 mm., whorls 12.
This small, inornate cone is probably a descendant of C. alveatus Conr.
of the Vicksburgian, but in that species the spire is more strongly striate, more whorls are tuberculate, and the keel edging the whorls is directed upward, whilst in C. imitator it is rather outward.
It is rather abundant at Gatun.
Also occurs in Santo Domingo.
Conus gaza Johnson and Pilsbry, n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
2, 3.
"The shell is biconic, diameter over half the length, the spire is nearly one-third the total length, concavely conic, attenuate towards the apex.
Post-embryonic whorls about 9, slightly concave, the lower edge of each angular, projecting a little; the angle tuberculate in the first post-embryonic whorl, smooth in the rest; sculptured with deeply arcuate, narrow, low and widely spaced riblets and strise; no spiral strise.
Last whorl acutely angular at the shoulder, barely convex below the angle, the outline becoming concave in the lower part; sculptured with 20-22 strong, smooth, flattened spiral cords, separated by wider intervals which are sharply striated by growth-striae.
Aperture very narrow.
"Length 24, diam.
13.1 mm."
(Johnson and Pilsbry).
Oligocene of Santo Domingo, Gabb.
Also of Gatun, A. P. B.
This beautiful cone bears some resemblance to the longer C. cruzianus Dall from Santa Cruz, the horizon of which is uncertain.
The single specimen from Gatun has fully two tuberculate postembryonic whorls.
In the Santo Domingo types this stage is shorter, and generally inconspicuous or lost by erosion.
We have quoted the description from Pilsbry and Johnson's MS. work on the Santo Domingo Oligocene.
The figures represent the type specimens from the same place.
Conus molis n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, fig.
1.
A large, ponderous cone resembling C. promethus in figure, the ratio of diameter to length as 1 : 1.7.
Spire but little raised except at the center, where the early whorls project in a short acute cone.
Whorls about 13, the earlier 6 flat, later whorls concave, spirally striate with about 5 striae between the seamlike sutural margins; crossed by weak growth-lines, which are not very deeply arcuate.
The shoulder of the last whorl is subacute.
Side strongly convex below the angle, then straight, finely striate spirally throughout, the lower third coarsely striate.
Aperture as in C. haytensis Sowb.
Length 124, diam.
71.2 mm.
This cone resembles C. haytensis Sowb.
of Santo Domingo, but differs by being longer in proportion to its width, in the plain, not coronated early whorls, which form a smaller mucro, the more acute shoulder, below which the side is more convex, more distinctly striated; the striae at the base are more nearly equal and closer, not widely spaced with smaller striae in the intervals, as they are in haytensis.
The type is No.
5,502 coll.
Princeton University, collected by Ward H. Farrington, 1908.
This species is also represented by several internal casts in the Princeton and Academy Gatun collections, and there is a fine example in the U. S. National Museum from Monkey Hill, near Colon.
Toula also mentions a cast, probably referable to the same species (Jahrb., p. 754).
TURRITID^J (PLEUROTOMIDiE).
Pleurotoma albida Perry.
The specimens agree well with those of the Bowden beds.
It is a conservative species, ranging from Eocene to recent.
Drillia gatunensis Toula.
D. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 707, PI.
25, fig.
16.
Related to D. indentata J. and P., of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, but it differs by having more numerous spirals.
In this feature there is rather wide variation, many specimens having but four wider spiral cords on the whorls of the spire below the sutural fasciole.
It attains a length of 40 mm.
Drillia isthmica n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, figs.
10, 11.
A small species, related to D. jparkeri Gabb of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, 2\ or 3 smooth whorls compose the embryonic shell, which is somewhat worn.
Succeeding whorls have a distinct, narrow, convex, sutural fasciole, undulating in conformity with the suture, and rather weakly plicate, the plicse perceptibly retractive, unevenly developed.
Below the fasciole there are broad folds, subacute at their summits.
On the slopes of the folds there are some protractive wrinkles, like ripples upon waves.
There is an interrupted spiral groove midway between sutures, appearing as a series of short strokes in the troughs of the waves only.
The aperture is imperfect in the type specimens.
There is a small callous nodule on the left side of the posterior sinus.
Length 13 mm., 11 whorls.
The absence of spiral striation makes this species quite distinct from others of the Isthmian beds.
Drillia fusinus n. sp.
PL XXIII, fig.
7.
The shell is fusiform, widest at the middle, like a slender Fusinus (Fusus).
Spire attenuated towards the small, obtuse apex.
The first half whorl is rounded, uptilted; then an acute carina appears at the lower third, at the end of the first whorl a second small cord appears above the suture.
Beginning with the third whorl a small thread appears on the upper side of the main carina, and low longitudinal folds begin.
On subsequent whorls these folds continue to the penultimate.
They are low, very wide and on the last whorl subobsolete.
The penultimate whorl has four subacute main spirals, one subsutural, two peripheral and one suprasutural; the intervals bearing smaller spiral threads and striae.
The last whorl has many spiral cords and threads.
Whorls 12, concave above, the last one swollen in the middle, concave and extended in a long, straight anterior canal.
Aperture narrow, small, less than half as long as the anterior canal, not deeply sinuated above.
Length 40, diam.
12 mm.
This appears to be a rather abundant shell at Gatun, but only one out of ten specimens retains the long anterior canal entire.
It is extremely like Fusinus in contour, and is more nearly related to D. fusifonnis than to other species known to us.
Drillia zooki n. sp.
PI.
XXIII, fig.
8.
A species very closely related to D. fusiformis Gabb, of the Santo Domingan Oligocene, but differing as follows: The anterior canal is much shorter.
There is no cord at the lower edge of the sutural fasciole, above the supraperipheral cord.
There are eleven somewhat protractive longitudinal folds on the last whorl, which are narrower than in D. fusiformis.
In other respects the two species seem to be substantially alike.
Length of last 4 whorls 20.5, diam.
8.5 mm.
Only imperfect specimens were collected.
Named for Mr. E. Zook, of the Panama R. R. Drillia oonsors (Sowerby).
Pleurotoma consors Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 50.
The Gatun specimens seem to have a slightly longer anterior canal than those from Santo Domingo.
♦Pleurotoma gertrudis Toula.
Pleurotoma (Genota) gertrudis Toula, Jahrb., p. 709, fig.
9.
Cythara heptagona (Uabb).
Mangelia heptagona Gabb, Geol.
Santo Domingo, p. 211.
One typical specimen.
CANCELLARIID^.
Cancellaria dariena Toula.
PI.
XXIV.
figs.
3, 4.
C. dariena Toula, Jahrb., p. 703, PI.
25, fig.
13; PI.
28, fig.
2.
This species resembles C. reticulata very closely, yet differs by having a much larger embryonic shell which is also more globose, of three whorls.
There are about 5h post-embryonic sculptured whorls, while in reticulata there is at least one whorl more in shells of the same size.
The first sculptured whorl in C. dariena has five spiral cords and 10 or 1 1 massive longitudinal folds.
On the last whorl there are usually some smaller threads in the intervals between the principal spirals, above the periphery.
The aperture is very much like that of C. reticulata except that a thin callus spreads far forward over the whorl to the middle of its ventral face.
Length 30, diam.
16.5 mm.
A form which may be called Cancellaria dariena trachyostraca, 23 n. subsp.
(PL 24, figs.
1,2), has the same comparatively large embryo, but the first sculptured whorl has about 16 more numerous, much narrower ribs.
On the last whorl the spirals are equal, without spiral threads in the intervals.
The callus does not extend forward from the aperture quite so extensively.
Length 30, diam.
18 mm.
Cancellaria barretti Guppy, which is very similar in appearance, has more spiral cords and more lirse within the outer lip.
Cancellaria decaptyx «• sp.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
5, 6.
A small, slender species, composed of 7 whorls in a length of 11 mm.
The first 2\ whorls form a smooth naticoid embryonic shell; then three spiral cords appear, and soon after coarse, rounded longitudinal ribs.
The spirals increase rapidly in number on succeeding whorls.
They pass over the ribs, upon the crests of which they are slightly strengthened.
The ribs are not quite as wide as their intervals.
On the last whorl there are ten, on the preceding nine ribs.
Whorls strongly convex.
The aperture is small.
Columella with two moderate, oblique folds, which are somewhat receding, being only weakly visible in a front view.
Length 11, diam.
5 mm.
We find no closely related species in the American tertiary.
MITRID^J.
Mitra longa Gabb.
PI.
XXIV, fig.
11.
M. longa Gabb, Geol.
of Santo Domingo, p. 219.
The specimens agree well with Gabb's types of this species.
As it has not been illustrated, we figure one of the Gatun specimens.
It measures, length 37, diam.
9.1 mm.
Mitra dariensis n. sp.
PL XXIV, fig.
9.
A species closely related to M. longa, but shorter, the diameter contained about three times in the length.
The apex is lost, 6J whorls remaining.
These are rather convex, with sculpture of four strong equal spiral ridges, and a smaller thread just below the suture; and on the last three whorls another thread appears between the first and second of the spiral cords.
The last whorl has twelve major spirals, and about six small, subequal spirals on the siphonal fasciole.
The interstices are sculptured with rather close, sharp longitudinal threads, and in each a spiral sunken line revolves.
The aperture is narrow.
Columella with four strongly oblique folds, the lowest one very small, upper fold much the strongest.
Length 22, diam.
7 mm.
(apex wanting).
This species differs from M. longa chiefly by the shorter, less contracted basal portion of the last whorl and the somewhat different sculpture of the interstices between the smooth spiral ribs.
, , , Mitra spundet.
PI.
XXIV, figs.
7, 8.
The internal cast of a large Mitre having three columellar plaits, the median one strongest, and with unusually short whorls, contained in the Princeton collection, No.
5,515, is figured (fig.
8).
Length of the fragment, which comprises nearly 2 whorls, is 46.5 mm.
A short piece of the columella of what we take to be the same species, was taken by one of us (fig.
7).
It shows three sharp plaits, the middle one largest, and on the wall above the upper plait there are several spiral threads.
This species is distinct from any known Santo Domingan Mitra.
MARGINELLID^3.
Marginella gatunensis n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, fig.
10.
A rather small oblong shell, widest at the upper third of the length, the diameter contained about 1.8 times in the length.
The spire is conic, short, and so enveloped in callus that the sutures are obliterated.
The outer lip is rather broad, thickened outside, incurved, and delicately denticulate within.
The nearly straight narrow aperture is rather abruptly but slightly dilated near the lower end.
The columella bears four folds, the lower two or three a little flattened towards the outer ends.
Upper half of the columellar wall is somewhat calloused, but thin at the outer edge.
Length 11.5, diam.
6.25 mm.
(type). "
8.5, " 4.8 " ;if-v1 This species is clearly distinct from all described from the American Oligocene.
It has some resemblance to M. limonensis Dall, of the Costa Rican Miocene (?
), but that is more than double the size of the largest M. gatunensis seen, and is relatively narrower.
.
i ■■ ■ ■ ■ Marginella leander n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, fig.
13.
The shell is long and narrow, the diameter not quite half the length; approaching a cylindric contour, but tapering a little from the upper fourth to the base; the spire a very short, wide cone, obtuse and rounded at the summit.
The aperture is straight, very narrow in the upper moiety, the lower third decidedly wider.
Outer lip nearly straight, with narrow, rounded face, thickened externally, a little inflexed in the middle.
Columella bearing four rather small folds which run outward upon the ventral face of the shell.
There is.
a low callus upon the columellar wall above.
The anterior notch is rather wide and shallow.
Length 9.0, diam.
4.2 mm.
(type). "
8.6, " 4.1 " Chiefly notable for its narrow shape and the long, emerging columellar folds.
Named for the Rev.
Leander T. Chamberlain.
Marginella coniformis Sowb.
PI.
XXIV, fig.
12.
Marginella coniformis Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 45 (Santo Domingo).
The specimens agree very closely with the small Bowden race of this species, which has been very poorly figured by Guppy (Q. J. Geol.
Soc, XXII, PL 17, fig.
2); but the Gatun shells are even smaller.
Specimens measure: Length 15 .
8, diam.
9 .
7 mm. "
14.3, " 9.1 " M. ballista Dall is broader at the shoulder, but otherwise related.
OLIVIDiE.
Oliva reticularis gatunensis Toula.
Oliva gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 702, PL 25, fig.
12.
Cf.
Oliva liodes Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst.
Sci., PI.
58, fig.
1.
This abundant form is not really distinguishable from the living 0. reticularis, except by its smaller size, length 35 to 38 mm.
FASCIOLARIID^J.
♦Glyptostyla panamensis Dall.
Glyptostyla panamensis Dall., Trans.
Wagner Inst.
Sci., Ill, p. 233, PL 13, fig.
5.
Not seen by us.
Vamos-vamos Station, 19 kilom.
from Colon.
The genus Glyptostyla is also known from the Martinez Eocene of California, but the species of that bed, G. crassitesta (Gabb), is very unlike the Isthmian form in sculpture, and cannot be considered nearly related.
Fasciolaria sp.
undet.
Internal casts of a species not unlike the Chipolan F. ramondi Maury were taken at Gatun.
BUOOINID^J.
Solenosteira dalli n. sp.
PI.
XXIV, fig.
14.
The shell is biconic, solid and thick.
Spire conic, acuminate when perfect, with about 2\ smooth embryonic whorls, the following whorls very convex, with sculpture of massive longitudinal folds not quite as wide as the intervals, and sharp spiral cords and threads passing over folds and intervals.
On the last whorl there are 8 or 9 short, high folds, narrower than the intervals, and somewhat pointed at the shoulder, and sharp spiral cords, the concave intervals of which bear several unequal spiral threads.
There are 16 or 17 major spirals between the suture and the basal point of the outer lip, and 5 or 6 more small ones on the convex basal fasciole.
The whole surface between the spirals is marked with fine growth striae.
The last whorl is deeply concave below, expanded around the umbilicus, which is deep and funnel-shaped.
Aperture as in the type of the genus, except that there is no posterior channel, merely an angle.
Outer lip deeply sulcatc within, with crenulate edge.
Columella nearly straight.
Parietal callus thin, with raised edge and one or two small lirse near the posterior angle of the aperture.
Length 41, diam.
25 mm.
This fine species bears the name of Dr. William H. Dall, whose "Tertiary Mollusks of Florida" is the greatest classic of the American Neocene.
It is evidently close to the recent S. anomala (Reeve), the type of Solenosteira, but differs by the greater number of spiral cords and the absence of an expansion or incipient channel at the posterior angle of the aperture.
We know S. anomala only by Reeve's too brief account.
It is probably a species of the Panamic region.
S. pallida (Brod.
), which Tryon considers identical with anomala, has more folds, 10 or 11 on the last whorl in specimens examined, and they are obtuse, not pointed as in S. dalli ; the spiral cords are much less prominent, their intervals nearly flat instead of concave, and bear finer, less unequal threads; moreover, there is a well-marked posterior apertural sinus in all of the specimens examined, while in S. dalli there is none.
Solenosteira elegans Dall (Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., XLIII, p. 300) from the Gulf of Panama, is a more compact shell than S. dalli, with narrower, longer ribs.
S. vaughani Dall, from the Floridian Miocene, is also related.
The last surviving Solenosteira in Antillean waters was S. mengeana Dall, from the Caloosahatchie Pliocene.
Phos gatunensis Toula.
PI.
XXV, figs.
1, 2.
Phos gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 701, PI.
28, fig.
6; PI.
25, fig.
11.
Toula's specimens of this species were poor, so that further descriptive notes and figures may be useful.
It differs from Phos metuloides Dall, from the Oligocene of Monkey Hill, by having rather narrow and sharp spirals, not in the least straplike at any stage of growth, and there are not so many longitudinal ribs.
Phos gabbi Dall, from the Oligocene of Santo Domingo and Jamaica, is very closely related to P. gatunensis, but in gabbi the aperture is shorter and wider, in consequence of the more swollen last whorl.
The embryonic shell consists of two smooth, rounded whorls; then narrow, widely spaced protractive riblets, and a spiral carina at the lower third, appear, for a half-whorl, giving place then to rounded vertical ribs about equal to their intervals, and spiral cords passingover ribs and intervals, the spaces between them spirally striate.
On the last whorl there are 13 narrow spiral cords above the siphonal fasciole, which is bounded above by an acute ridge.
The cords are enlarged where they pass over the longitudinal ribs, and in each interval there are several spiral striae except in the subperipheral region, where each interval has one spiral thread.
On the convex siphonal fasciole there are 4 to 6 small cords.
Adult shells have 19 to 25 longitudinal ribs on the last whorl.
On the preceding whorl the number is diminished by about a fourth.
There is no varix behind the outer lip, but the ribs become obsolete there in fully adult shells.
The aperture is narrow and long, the outer lip strongly lirate within.
The columella bears, at the origin of the anterior canal, a strong, obtuse, spirally entering plait, which ascends the internal column.
Length 32^, diam.
15 mm. "
30, " 14 " ■ " 25, " 12 " There is rather wide variation in the number of longitudinal ribs, while the number of major spirals remains very constant — thirteen on the last whorl, the upper one being more or less obviously doubled.
Phos subsemicostatus n. sp.
PL XXV, %.
3.
This species is closely related to Phos semicostatus Gabb, of the Santo Domingo beds.
It differs by having slightly narrower more numerous spiral threads, and by lacking small longitudinal riblets between the rare, varix-like ribs of the later whorls.
It is also larger.
Length 42, diam.
19 mm.
; 10 whorls.
Further material may perhaps show this to be a subspecies of the Santo Domingan form.
Our type has lost a large part of the shell from the last two whorls.
Phos metuloides DalL Phos metuloides Dall, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XIX, p. 303, PL 28, fig.
15 (Ponton, Santo Domingo; Monkey Hill, Isthmus of Panama).
Several young specimens from Gatim show the embryonic and early neanic whorls.
There is an embryo of at least 3 smooth whorls; then appear about five spiral threads crossed by very slender, widely spaced, protractive ribs.
These gradually change, in the first sculptured whorl, to coarse, rounded, vertical ribs equal to their interstices.
These continue for about two whorls, after which the adult sculpture of fine, close vertical riblets sets in, either abruptly or by a short but gradual transition.
Metula gabbi n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
4, 8.
This species is represented by three broken specimens, the spire, beyond the penultimate whorl, being wanting.
It is closely related to Metula cancellata Gabb, from which it differs as follows.
The sculpture of narrow longitudinal folds and spiral cords is much coarser.
There are 40 to 43 spirals on the last whorl (counting the smooth ones at the anterior end).
In M. cancellata the upper two or three spirals are separated by wider or deeper grooves than the rest, but in M. gabbi this is not the case.
The longitudinal folds on the last whorl of M. gabbi are about twice the size of those of M. cancellata.
On the spire the spirals do not pass over the longitudinal folds in M. gabbi as they do in M. cancellata.
The apertures are alike in the two species.
In the largest Gatun specimen the last whorl, measured in front, is 20.5 mm.
long.
COLUM BE LLID ^ .
Anaohis fugax n. sp.
PI.
XXV, fig.
5.
A species of the A. avara group, slender, with long, acuminate spire.
The first whorl is very minute; embryonic shell conic, composed of 3 or 3;j convex, smooth whorls, which taper more rapidly than the following whorls.
The next two whorls are smooth ; then longitudinal rounded ribs gradually begin, increasing in size to the last whorl.
These ribs arch backward or are nearly straight, extend from suture to suture and are a little wider than their intervals.
On the last whorl they weaken below the periphery.
There are 3 to 3^ rather convex sculptured whorls, separated by an impressed suture, below which there is a narrow ledge or indistinct cord.
The basal half of the last whorl is coarsely lirate spirally, the spirals coarsest in the concavity of the base.
Above the periphery and on the spire, spirals are wanting or sometimes barely traceable in places, but just behind the outer lip they extend farther up than elsewhere.
There is an indistinct broad variceal thickening behind the outer lip.
The small aperture has several weak lip-teeth.
Length 11, diam.
4.25 mm., length of aperture 5 mm.
; whorls about 9.
Ten ribs on the last whorl.
Somewhat smaller specimens in the same lot have 13, and an immature shell as many as 15 ribs on the last whorl.
This species is in or close to the ancestral stock of A. avara.
Two Pliocene forms have features possibly derived from this Oligocene form, combined with various diverse characters : A. avara caloosaensis Dall, in the Floridian Stage, is more robust than A. fugax, the number of sculptured whorls is greater and the suture specially modified.
A. camax Dall, from a slightly later stage, and even more like A. fugax, differs by having but "two smooth and eight reticulated whorls," and the spiral sculpture is far more strongly developed.
In both of the Pliocene species there has been acceleration of the sculpture since the Oligocene form, A. fugax having about 5^ smooth and 3 to Z\ sculptured whorls.
In various other Pliocene and recent forms of the same stock, however, there has been retardation of longitudinal sculpture, which first appears on the last whorl.
Anachis styliola Dall is a form superficially similar to A. fugax, but unlike it in the important feature of having a large, bulbous embryonic shell.
♦Strombina mira Dall.
S. mira Dall, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XIX, p. 312.
PL 29, fig.
7.
Oligocene marl, near Gatun (Rowell, Hill).
Strombina lessepsiana n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
11, 12.
A species closely related to S. cyphonotus and S. prisma, but more slender than either; fusiform.
Spire when perfect of fully 11 whorls, the suture distinctly, though not conspicuously channelled, ascending at the end less than in the other species.
Last whorl subtriangular in transverse section, having a strongly oblique node on the left side, a low dorsal hump near the suture, and marked with several sharp wrinkles, and behind the outer lip a strong varix preceded and followed by a concavity.
At the base there are strong spiral grooves, 11 to 15 in number.
Under the lens very weak traces of spiral sculpture may be seen on the almost smooth later whorls.
Aperture as in S. prisma, but with the canal slightly longer.
Length 27.0, diam.
10.0 mm.
(apex entire). "
22.2, " 9.2 " (apex broken). "
26.2, " 10.0 " Not uncommon at Gatun.
It is even more slender than S. prisma, 5 5 We introduce here descriptions of S. prisma and S. cyphonotus from Johnson and Pilsbry's report on Gabb's Santo Domingo fossils (not yet published), in order to demonstrate the relationships of S. lessepsiana. "
Strombina prisma P. and J., n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
9, 10.
"The shell resembles S. cyphonotus, but differs by being more fusiform, the obliquely longitudinal hump or node on the left side is stronger, dorsal hump with alip-varixof the same type, but the dorsal hump is low and sharply plicate, as in S. cyphonotus.
Some examples have several sharp, short folds below the suture in the space preceding the dorsal hump.
The status of these Oligocene tricornute forms is not easy to decide.
Our object now is merely to indicate the differential features of the several forms.
MURIOID^B3.
Murex messorius Sow-.
The Gatun form agrees well with recent specimens.
The species has been found also in the Santo Domingo Oligocene, but reported by Gabb as M. recurvirostris (Geol.
Santo Domingo, p. 201).
Murex polynematicus n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, fig.
1.
This form differs from the recent M .
recurvirostris and the Oligocene much moie emphatic, high, less plicate.
On either side of this hump the surface is more flattened, being especially flattened and sunken in the last third, between the dorsal eminence and the terminal varix.
The varix is high and rather narrow, preceded by a concavity, but no ripples.
Other features as in S. cyphonotus, except that the anterior canal is decidedly longer; lips white.
"Length 26, diam.
10.4 mm. "
29, " 12.2 " " 23 " 10.2 " "This species was among the shells which Gabb had referred to Strombina gradata.
The longer canal, the narrow lip-varix and the high dorsal hump readily distinguish it from S. cyphonotus" (Pilsbry and Johnson). "
Strombina cyphonotus P. and J., n. sp.
PI.
XXV, figs.
6, 7.
"Shell fusiform, solid, with rather slender, long spire, a little attenuated above, elsewhere with straight, smooth outlines.
The tip is broken in all specimens seen, 7 + whorls remaining.
These aie nearly flat, with the suture impressed by reason of a narrow prominence of the upper edge of each whorl.
The penultimate whorl sometimes shows a few slight longitudinal wrinkles.
The last whorl is obtusely triangular in transverse section, having a low, oblique hump on the left side of the ventral face, a dorsal hump near the suture sculptured with several longitudinal ripples is preceded by a noticeable concavity, and a massive varix behind the outei lip, rising from and merging gradually into the general convexity of the back.
A few ripples, distinct or faint, sculpture the back of the varix.
Anteriorly there are about 15 spiral grooves, the upper ones coarse and deep, the lower fine and close.
Elsewhere the surface is smooth.
The aperture is narrow, lips brown, the inner lip smooth, straight, elevated; the callus within the outer lip bears about 9 small teeth.
Anterior canal short and slightly recurved.
"Length 23.1, diam.
11 mm.
; length of last whorl, from end of canal to posterior end of the lip-varix 15 mm.
"Other specimens of the type lot measure: "Length 21.
S, diam.
10 mm. "
23.1, " 10 " " 21.5, " 11 " "Oligocene of Santo Domingo, W. M. Gabb.
"This species was incorrectly identified by Gabb (Geology of Santo Domingo, p. 221) with Columbella gradata Guppy, a conspicuously different Strombina of the Bowden Oligocene.
It is related to, and probably an ancestor of, the recent West Coast Strombina dorsata (Sowerby), which differs by lacking ripples on the humps, by its seamlike sutures, far weaker basal spirals, etc.
subspecies domingensis Gabb by having more numerous spiral threads in the intervals of the major spirals — three or four in each interval.
There are six varices on the last one and a half whorls, none on the earlier whorls.
The varices are not very large, and not excavated behind.
A shoulder spine is present on the last two varices only, and is short and conic.
The three intervariceal spaces on the last whorl bear three, two and one folds, respectively.
These folds are shorter and higher than in recurvirostris .
Diameter 38 mm.
; length unknown, the anterior canal being broken.
Murex (Phyllonotus) gatunensis.
PI.
XXVI, fig.
2.
The shell resembles M. spinulosa in general form.
Embryonic whorls unknown; subsequent whorls about 6, strongly convex, subangular at the shoulder, the last contracted into a narrow but short anterior canal.
Sculpture : on the last whorl seven strong varices, each with a short horizontal spine at the shoulder and about half as wide as the intervals; sharp, narrow, unequal spiral ridges over both varices and intervals.
These ridges are unequally spaced, and the concave interstices bear numerous weak spiral strise.
On the penultimate whorl, two ridges are visible below, and two or three above the shoulder-angle.
The aperture is triangular-ovate; outer lip has 11 or 12 short, acute teeth on the submarginal internal callus.
Length about 32 or 33 mm.
(early whorls wanting), diam.
21 mm.
This species has much resemblance to Murex spinulosa Heilprin, but it differs, among other characters, by wanting a basal series of spines.
Typhis alatus Sowerby.
Typhis alatus Sowerby, Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 48, PI.
10, fig.
4.
Similar to specimens from the Oligocene of Bowden and Santo Domingo.
Typhis martyria Dall is a recent survivor of the same group, in the Pacific.
A specimen was lost, which so far as we can remember was probably Typhis obesus Gabb.
Typhis gabbi n. sp.
PI.
XXVI, fig.
6.
The shell is fusiform, strong, the last whorl having a peculiar sculpture, the surface shrivelled, wrinkled and pitted.
The embryo, of nearly two very convex smooth whorls, forms a short style or pillar.
Then the diameter enlarges, and a shoulderangle appears on the latter part of the third whorl.
In the middle of the fourth whoil varices and intervariceal tubes appear on the very prominent shoulder, these structures gradually increasing in size to the last whorl, which bears four varices.
These are strong and heavy, rounded, somewhat recurved above the shoulder, where there is a deep pit behind each varix.
The tubes are short, midway between the varices, and placed upon low, short folds.
The aperture is very small, oval, with a raised rim.
Anterior canal closed, bent to the right, having three projecting angles on the left side.
Length 14, diam.
7.3 mm.
Based upon a single quite perfect individual.
The sculpture is very characteristic.
STROMBIDiE.
Strombus gatunensis Toula.
PL XXVI.
'figs.
3, 4, 5.
S. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 698, PI.
XXV, figs.
7.
8.
This species resembles S. pugilis alatus Gmel.
in having the last whorl smooth except for rather weak spiral cords below the suture and on the base, the shoulder being unarmed.
It differs from alatus by the neanic whorls, which in alatus are subangular, with folds much larger than m gatunensis, prominent at the shoulder, fade out above and below.
In both species the spire is strongly, evenly striate spirally.
In S. gatunensis the spire is concave-sided, attenuate and lengthened, the whorls strongly convex, finely and closely plicate longitudinally, the folds extending from suture to suture.
On the penultimate and next earlier whorls the folds become obsolete above, remaining short, close nodes on the antepenultimate, larger, separated, subacute tubercles on the penultimate whorl.
The last whorl has an obtusely angular shoulder.
There are several coarse spiral stria?
below the suture, and the lower part is spirally striate.
It becomes tumid towards the aperture.
The outer lip is somewhat thickened, has a very shallow notch near the lower end, and is weakly wrinkled within, but smooth in the throat.
In one specimen seen there are about two varices on each of the whorls of the attenuated part of the spire.
The other shells have none.
Fig.
5.
Length 45, diam.
28.
5 mm.
Fig.
4. "
50 mm.
In Strombus bifrons Sowb., of the Oligocene of Haiti and Jamaica, the folds on the spire are coarser than in S. gatunensis; the tubercles persist and are somewhat spiniform on the last whorl, where also the spiral striation is much more strongly developed.
Strombus C?)
sp.
undet.
PI.
XXVI, fig.
7.
An internal cast preserving none of the shell is referable to this genus or possibly to Orthaulax.
It is peculiar in having an erect flange on one side of the last whorl at the suture, indicating such an ascendinglobe in the sutural region as characterizes Orthaulax gabbi Dall.
AQUILLID^.
Distorsio gatunensis Toula.
PI.
XXVI, fig.
8.
Distorsio (Distortrix, Persona) gatunensis Tonla,, Jahrb., p. 700, PI.
25, fig.
10.
This fine species is well-distinguished from Antillean Oligocene and recent forms by the larger size of its low, naticoid, embryonic shell of 3^ whorls, set somewhat aslant upon the sculptured portion following.
It measures 2.25 mm.
in diameter.
The adult shell figured is 49 mm.
long, with 6^post-embryonic whorls.
Malea camura Guppy.
Malea ringens Conrad, Pacific R. R. Reports, VI, p. 72.
PI.
5, fig.
22 (Gatun.)
Malea camura Guppy, Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., XXIII, p. 287, PI.
17, fig.
0.
Several specimens, none perfect, are perhaps referable to this Jamaican and Santo Domingan species, which was described from an imperfect example of the small phase, having about 16 spiral ribs.
The Gatun shells are much larger, length about 80 mm., have a longer spire than usual in M. camura, and about the same number of ribs.
Conrad has given a figure of the Gatun form, showing the characteristic high spire.
Sconsia laevigata (Sowb.).
Cassidaria laevigata Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc, Lond., VI, p. 47, pi.
10, fig.
2.
An internal cast and an imperfect shell broken from a hard matrix evidently belong to this species.
They are somewhat more oval, less inflated above, than the largest examples from Santo Domingo.
Pyrula near papyratia Say.
A broken internal cast was found at Gatun, which shows no characters inconsistent with the recent species, yet is not perfect enough for positive identification.
CYPR^JIDiE.
Cypraea henikeni Sowb., var.
PI.
XXVI, figs.
9, 10 Cypr&a henkeri Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 45, PI.
9, fig.
3.
The typical C. henikeni from Santo Domingo has two well-developed callous tubercles on the posterior part of the back, but in some shells these are low or wanting.
The sides, posteriorly, are sometimes coarsely corrugated.
In the specimens from Gatun there is no trace of the dorsal nodes; the callus has several corrugations on each side of the posterior canal, and lower ones may be felt along the sides.
The aperture is like that of Santo Domingo C. henikeni, except that the teeth are more compressed and longer.
In a specimen 42.5 mm.
long there are 15 teeth on the inner, 19 on the outer lip.
Specimens retaining part of the color are ochraceous with orange streaks, arranged as in the recent C. mus.
1911.]
357 Length of figured specimen 42.5, width 31.6, height 23.2 mm.
A larger fragment has an outer lip about 55 mm.
long.
CERITHIID^J.
Bittium nugatorium n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is slender, diameter about one-third the length.
Embryonic shell conic, of 3^ smooth convex whorls.
Subsequent whorls about 6+, convex, with well-impressed suture ; they have three narrow spiral cords, increasing to four on the last two whorls, by the addition of a subsutural thread.
These are intersected by narrow, slightly nexuous longitudinal ribs, forming a lattice work enclosing square pits.
On the last whorl five spirals form this lattice; and there are five smooth spirals without longitudinal ribs on the base.
There is a rounded varix on the last whorl.
Aperture not perfect.
There is a slight anterior channel.
Length 3.6, diam.
1.2 mm.
This species is similar to Cerithium collinsii Gabb, from Limon, Costa Rica, in form, but differs by having more embryonic whorls, and three spirals on the whorls of the spire ; moreover, the base has five strong spiral cords.
Fig.
1.
TURRITELLID^l.
Turritella mimetes n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, fig.
1.
The shell resembles T. variegata L. in contour, except that the base is flat and the periphery much more strongly angular.
Whorls 14 + , flat, the lower edge of each projecting a little.
In the upper third of the shell, each whorl has 16 fine, even threads, equal, and about equal to their intervals.
A submedian thread then becomes larger, and on the later whorls there are many unequal spirals of three or four sizes.
The flat base has similar spirals, four or five threads beinglarger than the other striae.
Length 64, diam.
18 mm.
This species differs from the recent T. variegata by the even and finer striation of the upper whorls, the flat base and strongly angular periphery.
It is probably ancestral to the modern species.
Some fragments indicate that it reaches a larger size than the nearly perfect type specimen.
Turritella gatunensis Conrad.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
4, 5, 9.
Turritella gatunensis Conr., Pacific R. R. Rep., VI, p. 72, PI.
5, fig.
20.
Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., III.
p. 310, PI.
17, fig.
10.
Turritella conradi Toula, Jahrb., p. 694, PI.
25, fig.
4.
Not Turritella gatunensis Conrad, Gabb, Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, p. 342, PI.
44, figs.
10, lOo ( = T. tristis.
6 ) This fine species stands close to T. planigyrata Guppy, but differs from it by having the upper part of each whorl much more excavated or contracted.
Dall's figure, cited above, is not very characteristic of the typical gatunensis, and Gabb's figures of the form from the black shale of Oronli Creek, Talamanca, Costa Rica, represent a different species.
6 The Pliocene T. subannulata Dall seems to be related to T. gatunensis.
Turritella uvasana Conr., from the Calif ornian Eocene, is not very closely related to T. gatunensis, the spiral threads being subequal, and the upper part of the whorls not nearly so much excavated as in the Panamic species.
T. uvasana is much nearer T. tristis in sculpture, but on comparing specimens it is seen that uvasana has many more spirals, longer and less convex whorls.
T. gatunensis has been reported from Vicksburg Eocene of Florida and from the Oligocene of Ballast Point (Dall, I.e.).
It belongs to a type widely spread in Tertiary and recent faunas.
Turritella altilira Conrad.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
2, 3.
Turritella altilira Conr., Pacific R. R. Reports, VI, p. 72, PL 5, fig.
19 (Gatun).
Not Turritella altilirata Conrad, Gabb, Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, p. 341 PI.
44, figs.
9, 9a (Sapote, Costa Rica).
Turritella gabbi Toula, Jahrb., p. 695, PI.
25, fig.
5 (Gatun).
This magnificent Turritella was rather rudely figured by Conrad.
It is a common and characteristic species of the Gatun beds.
It tapers slowly and, judging from the broken specimens seen, must attain a length of upwards of 100 mm., with a basal diameter of 18 mm., and probably over 25 whorls.
Each whorl bears two very high spiral ribs, crenulated at their summits, the lower rib narrow, the upper wider, usually but not always double at the ridge, or with a lower cord below the main one.
The deep concavity between the ridges has sculpture of several unequal spiral cords, more or less crenulated; and the whole surface, when e Turritella tristis n. sp.
A long, slowly tapering shell with strongly convex whorls, the intermediate and lower ones with sculpture of five sharp, strong spiral cords, much narrower than their concave, spirally striate intervals.
The largest fragment has 9 whorls in a length of 30 mm., the last whorl about 9 mm.
in diameter.
Gabb has figured this in his PI.
44, fig.
10.
Others are larger, diameter about 15 mm.
The interstitial strue are not very well-preserved, but are visible in places.
Black shale bed, Oronli Creek, Talamanca.
most perfect, has a very fine spiral striation.
The last whorl has a third rib, sub-peripheral in position, the base below it somewhat convex, marked with some radial stria?
and lamella?.
On the early .whorls the spiral ribs are less prominent and the interstitial beaded cords rather better developed.
The embryonic and early neanic whorls are unknown.
T. tomato Guppy, known: to us by a series collected by Gabb in Santo Domingo, is very closely related to T. altilira, but it differs constantly, in a considerable series seen, by the far less prominent spiral ribs.
Whether this difference is to be regarded as specific or as subspecific is not a matter of great importance.
The Pliocene T. terebrijormis Dall may be a descendant of the tornata stock.
Gabb figured an allied form from the Miocene (?)
of Sapote, Costa Rica, as " Turritella altilirata Conrad."
This name is either a mistake or an emendation of Conrad's altilira; but the specimens are clearly not that species.
We propose to call Gabb's form Turritella sapotensis, n. sp.
(PL 27, fig.
10).
Each whorl has a strong, compressed spiral rib at the lower third, obliquely crenulated at its summit, as in T. altilira.
Above this rib the surface is a little convex, and bears about five unequal spiral cords, crenulated and very low.
The upper two of these cords correspond in position with the upper spiral rib in T. altilira.
There is also a low cord above the suture.
The broken shell figured (which also served for Gabb's Pi.
44, fig.
9a) measures 29 mm.
long, 15 mm.
in greatest diameter, and consists of somewhat over 3 whorls.
Gabb's figure 9 misrepresents another fragmentary shell, which, from the hard matrix which partly envelopes it, was evidently found with T. sapotensis.
So far as visible, it very closely resembles T. tornata from Santo Domingo.
It is clearly not T. altilira, nor do we think it a younger stage of T. sapotensis, though such may possibly prove to be the case.
The age of the Sapote bed which furnished Gabb's fossils is uncertain, dementia dariena (Conr.)
is the only species known to be common to this and the Gatun bed.
Turritella is an excellent index of small divisions in the Tertiary; T. sapotensis is apparently a derivative from T. altilira; and so far as that theory is of any value, may indicate that the Sapote bed is later than the Gatun, perhaps Miocene.
VERMETIDiE.
Petaloconchus domingensis Sowb.
P. domingensis Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 51, PI.
10, fig.
9.
An internal cast apparently of this species.
SOLARIID^3.
Solarium granulatum gatunensis Toula.
S. gatunense Toula, Jahrb., p. 692, PL 25, fig.
3.
This form is more depressed than S. granulatum or its ancestor S. quadriseriatum Sowb., but with sculpture closely resembling both, and especially the form of granulatum found in the Bowden Oligocene.
It differs from all of the above-named forms by lacking a small thread in the intervals immediately above and below the peripheral cord.
The Gatun shell is probably, therefore, a lateral branch from the quadriseriatum granulatum stock.
NATICID^J.
Natica guppyana Toula.
Natica guppyana Toula, Jahrb., p. 696, PL 25, fig.
6.
Closely related to N. rugosa Gmel., but adult shells are larger, with the grooves obsolete in the middle of the last whorl.
Natica C?)
sp.
undet.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
6, 7.
Internal cast of a species having about the size and contour of the small southern race of P. duplicate (Say).
Diameter 40 mm.
Polinices subclausa (Sowb.).
Natica subclausa Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, p. 51 (Santo Domingo).
*Lupia perovato Conrad.
Dall in Hill, Bull.
M. C. Z., XXVIII, p. 273.
Vamos a Vamos beds (Hill).
Cf.
Amaura guppyi Gabb.
Sigaretus gatunensis Toula.
Sigaretus (Lupia Conrad) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 697, PL 28, fig.
3.
A form related to S. perspectivus Say.
CAPULID^J.
*Capulus (?)
gatunensis Toula.
Jahrb., p. 692, PL 25, figs.
1, 2.
Possibly identical with the Cheilea described below, but if so the generic characters have been overlooked by Toula.
It differs by the oblong shape and more nearly central apex.
CALYPTR^IDuEJ.
Crepidula plana Say.
Several specimens occurred in the apertures of other gastropods.
Cheilea princetonia n. sp.
Fig.
2.
A small species, circular, conic with apex curved in a minute hook ; front slope somewhat convex, posterior slope nearly straight; surface with sculpture of fine growth-lines and a few wide, low, irregular circular waves, and excessively fine, close radial strise.
Internal process narrow and slightly asy mmetrical at its insertion.
Fig.
2.
— Cheilea princetonia, dorsal and lateral views of internal cast.
Width S.8, alt.
3.5 mm.
The type is an internal cast and external mould of the same individual, in a hard matrix.
The radial striation is finer than in the recent Antillean C. equestris of the same size.
C. vario (Brod.)
of the Pacific coast is apparently more nearly related to the Isthmian form.
The type is No.
5,516 of the Princeton University museum, collected by Mr. Ward H. Farrington, 1908.
NUCTJLlDiE.
Nucula (Acila) isthmica n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, figs.
11, 12.
The shell is trigonal with the upper margin anterior to the beaks, and the basal margin strongly convex, the posterior margin shortest and straight; posterior angle rather acute, the anterior rounded off, beaks moderately prominent, opisthocoelous, at the posterior third of the length; no lunule.
Externally an angle, strong but not acute, runs from the beak to the posterior angle, and a depression or concavity of the outer face accompanies it.
Elsewhere the outer face is strongly convex.
The flat, truncate, posterior area has a sculpture of arcuate ribs, divaricating at the angle from those of the outer face, and terminating at right angles with the posterior end.
The dorsal area anterior to the beaks has a corrugation composed of short ribs which run almost transversely to the long axis of the shell.
The rest of the surface has close radial sculpture of riblets which diverge V-like from a median line.
These riblets are a little irregular, in places slightly tuberculiferous ; they are closer and a trifle narrower near the posterior concavity, becoming perceptibly more spaced anteriorly, where the intervals are a little wider, crossed by irregular, fine, raised 24 stria?.
At the basal margin there are several more ribs in the posterior than in the anterior series.
Inside there are about 18 teeth in front of the beaks, about 7 behind them.
The angle of the hinge line at the beaks is obviously greater than a right angle.
Length 18, alt.
13, diam.
9.5 mm.
Described from a right and a left valve, the latter being figured.
It is clearly distinct from N. decisa Conrad and N. cordata Dall.
of the Pacific slope Miocene, 8 and the recent Pacific N. castrensis Hinds.
LEDID^3.
Leda balboae n. sp.
PI.
XXVII, fig.
8.
The shell is rather thin, plump, with small submedian, closely adjacent and recurved beaks; pointed posterior and rounded anterior end, and arcuate base, which is less convex posteriorly.
The upper margin is slightly concave behind and convex before the beaks.
No lunule.
Posterior dorsal area lanceolate, concave, defined by an acute carina running to the rostrum, sculptured with straight radial riblets.
The rest of the valve has concentric ribs, which are slightly more abrupt on the upper side.
In the middle of the valve in 5 mm.
next the basal margin there are about 13 riblets.
The hinge-line is rather narrow, armed with angular or V-shaped teeth, of which there are 18 behind and 28 in front of the beaks.
Length 22.3, alt.
12.0, diam.
10.0 mm.
(type). "
19.0, " 11.3, " 9.6 " Known from two right valves.
It has much resemblance to the recent Panamic L. agapea Dall in contour, but differs by the acute ridge bounding the dorsal posterior area and various other details.
Leda codetta Hinds closely resembles L. balboce, but it differs by having a distinct lunule, which is not present in the Gatun species.
ARCID^].
Area dariensis n. sp.
PI.
XXII, fig.
10.
The shell is long (the alt.
six-tenths of the length), basal and upper margins subparallel, beaks small, at the anterior two-sevenths of the length.
Valves not quite equal, the left slightly surpassing the other along the basal margin.
Sculpture of about 31 radial ribs.
In the median part of the valves these ribs are narrower than their intervals.
In the left valve the ribs are closely nodulous in the lower part, very shortly scaly near the beaks.
Towards the two ends the ribs widen and become divided by a median groove, on both sides of which it 1 Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 573, PI.
40. becomes nodulose, and the intervals are crossed by their lamellae.
In the right valve the ribs are smooth in the middle field, the intervals concave, with concentric lamellae towards the beaks.
At both ends the ribs are wider and divided by a groove, as in the other valve.
In both valves the anterior ribs have a shallow sulcus, the posterior ones a distinct narrow furrow.
The ligament area is narrow, lanceolate, marked with two or three grooves diverging at a wide angle The teeth are very fine and close, about 70 in a shell 36 mm.
long Interior radially striate, the margin crenulate as usual.
Length 36.0, alt.
20, diam.
18.2 mm. "
31.8, " 18, " 13.5 " This is an abundant Ark in the Gatun bed.
It is well-characterized by the rather narrow shape, grooved posterior and shallowly sulcate anterior ribs, while the ribs of the median part are simple in the right, granulous in the left valve.
Glycymeris carbasina n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
9.
Shell of the usual subcircular shape, solid, equilateral, with slightly prosogyrate beaks, scarcely separated by the very narrow ligamentarea.
Sculpture of many very low radial ribs equal to the intervals, with over the whole a minute sculpture of radial cut by equal concentric striae, forming a regular granulation by their intersection.
On each rib (to the middle of the interval) there are five or six radial granule-threads.
The antero-dorsal and postero-dorsal areas have no major ribs, but there are fine radial riblets, the intervals of which, being crossed by the concentric striae, appear to have a single series of punctures in each.
The hinge is rather wide.
Tooth-row of 10.12 teeth meeting V-like in the middle, where they are invaded by the ligamental area in the largest specimen seen.
Inner margins of the valves crenulate throughout, the "teeth" of the basal portion very deeply cut, narrow, with a concavity in each.
Length 18, alt.
16, semidiam.
5 mm.
; 66 crenulations in the margin,, hinge teeth 10.11.
Very closely related to G. jamaicensis Dall, of the Bowden Oligocene,, but that has much smaller, more numerous hinge-teeth in shells of the same size, the anterior contour is more irregular, and the fluting of the basal margin is far less deep.
The external sculpture is practically identical in the two forms.
The recent Antillean G. lineata (Rve.)
is extremely close to G. carbasina, but in the latter the marginal fluting is far more emphatic.
We do not know that the fossil form ever attains nearly the size of G. lineata, of which it is probably a direct ancestor.
Two other specimens measure as follows: Length 14.9, alt.
14.8, semidiam.
4.9 mm.
; hinge-teeth 8.9. "
14.0, " 12.5, " 3.9 " " " 7.9.
Glycymeris oanalis n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
10.
The subcircular shell is a little higher than long, solid, equilateral, with nearly straight, contiguous beaks, the ligamental area being extremely narrow and short.
Sculpture of 33 strong, rounded ribs, separated by linear grooves, and obsoletely marked with rather regular concentric growth-stria?
.
Tooth-row strongly angulated in the middle, with 10 teeth on each side.
Inner margin crenulated with about 20 strong "teeth," the upper margins not crenulated.
Length 14.5, alt.
15.1, semidiam.
4.6 mm.
Described from several valves, on which we count 30, 31, 32 and 33 ribs.
This species has a close resemblance to G. pectinata (Gmel.)
of the Antillean fauna, which differs by having wider sulci between the ribs, and by having an area of smaller ribs on the anterior end, while in canalis they decrease gradually in size.
Glyoymeris acuticostata Sowb.
Pectunculus acuticostatus Sowb., Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., VI, 18-49, p. 53, PL 10, fig.
13 (Santo Domingo).
Typical, agreeing with Santo Domingo and Jamaican specimens.
PECTINIDiE.
Pecten CEquipecten) effossus n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, figs.
4, 6.
An orbicular, equilateral, compressed shell, resembling P. scissuratus Dall.
The length and diameter are nearly equal, the ears subequal, the left valve nearly flat, the right one more convex.
A left valve has 17 ribs, as wide as the slightly concave intervals.
Each rib has the shape of an inverted V, but with rounded ridge, and a thin longitudinal lamella in the middle of each lateral slope, these lamella?
define furrows which terminate in incisions at the edge.
The whole surface is finely sculptured with delicate concentric threads, subregularly and not closely spaced.
These threads are arched downward in the intervals.
Ears marked with several narrow radial riblets and concentric growth-threads.
Length 1 1 .2, alt.
11 mm.
The right valve of a large shell, alt.
about 19 mm., has similar sculpture, except that the ribs are larger.
The interior is deeply furrowed in both valves.
The specimens of P. scissuratus in Gabb's Santo Domingo collection (PI.
28, figs.
2, 5; alt.
27, width 27.5 mm.)
differ from the abovedescribed form by having the concentric threads crowded and crimped in the intercostal spaces and by having much better developed lamellae across the furrows on the ribs.
They have been compared with the types of the species by Dr. W. H. Dall.
Fig.
2 measures, alt.
27, width 27.8 mm.
Pecten gatunensis Toula.
Pecten (FlabeUipecten) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 711, PI.
26, fig.
2.
The fragmentary specimens taken add nothing to Toula's account.
Pecten (Plagioctenium) operculariformis Toula.
Pecten (JEqui'pectenT) operculariformis Toula, Jahrb., p. 712, PI.
26, fig.
3.
The ribs are narrower and have steeper slopes than in the related recent P. nucleus.
P. excentricus Gabb is a closely related, yet apparently distinct form, from Santo Domingo.
*Pecten levicostatus Toula.
Pecten levicostatus Toula, Jahrb., p. 713, PI.
26, figs.
4 (5, 6).
Pecten thetidis Sowb.
and Janira soror Gabb have been identified by Gabb from Gatun (Journ, A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, 346, 347).
*Pecten (Amusium) lyonii Gabb.
Pleuronectia lyonii Gabb, Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, p. 347 (Gatun specimens).
Pecten (Amusium) cf.
mortoni Rarenel, Toula, Jahrb., p. 714, PI.
26, figs.
8, 9.
This form is not present in our material.
Gabb reported it from Gatun, and Toula has figured specimens which have the appearance of the Costa Rican species, the types of which are before us.
Pecten (Amusium) toulae n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
7.
Pecten (Amusium) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 716, PI.
26, fig.
10.
Not Pecten gatunensis Toula, t. c, p. 711.
The shell is smooth, thin and flat, equilateral, closely resembling P. lyonii Gabb, of Sapote, Costa Rica (probably Miocene), and P. papyracea Gabb.
of the Santo Domingan Oligocene.
The surface is marked with narrow, sharply defined gray* rays on a white ground, the rays less than half as wide as the intervals, subequal in the median part, much narrower at the sides, where they gradually fade out, and about 17 in number.
Ears broad, subequal, marked with close, fine growth-lines, more distinct than on the disk.
Interior smooth, so far as seen, but the marginal region, where ribs are developed in related forms, is wanting in the specimen.
Greatest breadth of the broken specimen figured 48 mm.
It attains a much greater size.
In P. lyonii the gray rays are wider, when visible, and the spaces between them are slightly convex; the interior has coarse radial ribs, but none are visible in P. toulce where the inside is exposed, at the lower margin of the broken shell.
P. papyracea has fine internal ribs in pairs.
Toula has figured and described this species, but by oversight he used a specific name already employed on a previous page of the same paper.
OSTREIDiE.
Ostrea gatunensis n. sp.
PL XXIX.
figs.
1, 2.
Ostrea spec.
ind.
and Ostrea aff.
vespertina Conr., Toula, Jahrb., p. 710.
PI.
26, fig.
1; PI.
28, fig.
14.
A short oval oyster, the convex valve with coarsely, radially corrugated exterior, the ruga?
rarely divaricating, and with a few decumbent spines.
The rather short beak is bent at an angle of about 45 degrees with the long axis of the shell.
Inside there is a rather short ligament area, the wide valve-margin adjacent to it being sculptured with strong, close, transverse, irregular wrinkles.
The margins are elsewhere simple.
Cavity of the valve not deep, and not in the least excavating the beak.
Length 103, width 72 mm.
Toula (/.
c.) mentions an oyster near vespertina Conrad which is probably the young of this species and of his undetermined Ostrea.
The interior reminds one somewhat of 0. iridescens Brod., but that has a deep excavation under the beak, among other differences.
It stands extremely close to the recent Indo-Pacific 0. hyotis (L.).
Part of a valve of a very narrow, strongly convex and very peculiar oyster was also found at Gatun.
CARDIID^E Cardium (Trachycardium) stiriatum n. sp.
PI.
XXVIII.
fig.
11.
Cardium spec, vielleicht eine neue Art, Toula, Jahrb., p. 721, PI.
27, fig.
5; , PL 28, fig.
15«, b.
The shell is rather thick, very plump, much higher than long, nearly equilateral, the posterior end a little straightened.
Beaks median, the incurved tip concealed by the reflexed hinge-margin.
Sculpture of 30 radial ribs.
At the two ends these ribs bear strongly projecting, drop-shaped tubercles.
In the median part of the valve the ribs lean posteriorly, and have a narrow tuberculate cord superposed on the posterior side of each, the tubercles elongated parallel to the cord in the median ribs, oblique or twisted on it, on the lateral ribs.
The interstices are not very deep at the ends, but in the median moiety of the valve they are narrow and very deeply cut, overhung by the high side of the rib.
The middle of each rib, anterior of the tuberculate ridge, bears one or several low cords, and the anterior slope has some fine, irregular, transverse striae.
Teeth strong, margin deeply fluted and crenulate, the crenulations narrow and deep on the posterior margin, triangular in the basal margin, very shallow at the anterior margin.
Length 29.5, width 24, semidiameter 12 mm.
; 30 ribs.
31.0, " 25, " 13 " ;29 " This species is closely related to the recent West Coast Cardium belcheri Brod., which has ribs of the same peculiar, asymmetrical character.
In the Gatun shell there are many more ribs, and the tubercles upon them are shorter and blunt, while in C. belcheri they are more spiniform.
Cardium lingualeonis Guppy is proportionately narrower and has more ribs, but seems to be rather close to the Gatun species.
C. stiriatum is, by its complex sculpture, a relatively specialized form ; but it is less advanced than the recent C. belcheri, which is further evolved by the reduction in number of ribs; a large number being primitive in Cardium.
C. stiriatum may be an ancestor of the recent species.
This species was known to Toula by hard internal casts, which alone are found in a layer containing mainly bivalves.
The largest of several of these casts before us measures, length 26, alt.
33, diam.
26.5 mm.
*Cardiuin (Trachycardium) dominicanum Call.
C. (T.) dominicanum Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,082.
Oligocene shale near Gatun.
Cardium (Trachycardium) dominicense Gabb.
C. (T.) dominicense Gabb, Geol.
Santo Domingo, p. 25; Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, p. 344 (Gatun and Costa Rica).
Cardium (Trachycardium) gatunense Toula, Jahrb., K. K. Geol.
Reichsanst., 1908, LVIII, p. 720, PI.
27, fig.
4.
Not Cardium (Fragum) gatunense Dall, 1900.
Abundant in the Gatun collection we have studied.
The specimens agree perfectly with Gabb's type of C. dominicense.
Cardium (Laevicardium) serratum L. Dall, Trans.
Wagner Free Inst., Ill, p. 1110.
The shell seems indistinguishable from those of the Bowden bed and from the recent form.
C. apicinum Cpr.
from the Pacific is closely related.
*Cardium (Laevicardium) dalli Toula.
Jahrb., p. 722, PI.
27, fig.
6.
If really distinct from C. serratum, this species will require a new name, dalli being in use for a fine Pliocene species.
•Cardium (Fragum) gatunense Dall.
Trans.
Wagner Free Inst., III, p. 1100.
Black shales of Gatun, collected by R. T. Hill.
We have not seen this species.
*Cardium (?)
newberryanum Oabb.
C. (Protocardia) newberryanum Gabb, Journ.
A. N. S.
Phila., VIII, p. 344, PI.
44, fig.
17.
Gatun (Newberry).
TELLINID^].
♦Tellina dariena <'onrad.
T. dariena Conr., Pacific R. R. Rep., V, p. 32S, PI.
6, fig.
55.
*Tellina gatunensis Toula.
T. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 729, text fig.
10.
*Tellina rowlandi Toula.
T. rowlandi Toula, Jahrb., p. 728, PL 28, fig.
11.
*Tellina lepidota Dall.
Tellina (Phyllodina) lepidota Dall, Trans.
Wagner Free Inst., Ill, p. 1022, PI.
46, fig.
18.
Oligocene sandstone at Gatun (Dall).
*Semele sayi Toula.
S. sayi Toula, Jahrb., p. 730, PL 28, fig.
17.
Tellina sp.
undet.
Casts of a species resembling Tellina laevigata in size and shape.
It is distinct from any species recorded by Toula,, and apparently not found in the Bowden or Santo Domingo beds.
Tellina spundet.
Casts of a species possibly identical with T. laceridens Hanley, agreeing closely with that in shape.
It is somewhat larger; length 61, alt.
37 mm.
We consider fig.
168 of the Thesaurus monograph to be the typical form of T. laceridens.
VENERIDiE.
Chione tegulum n.'sp.
PI.
XXVIII, fig.
8.
Shell plump, the altitude almost equal to the length, with prominent prosogyrate beaks near the anterior third.
Sculpture of rounded,.
tilelike radial ribs (their summits 1 mm.
apart near the basal margin f in the median part of a shell 19 mm.
in alt.)
; these are interrupted by narrow, concentric, machiolated ridges, curved downwards in the intervals, upward where they cross the radial ribs.
There are 26 of the concentric ridges in a shell 19 mm.
in altitude.
The wide, cordate lunule has radial lamellae only, and is defined by a deep groove.
The lanceolate escutcheon is concave, with sculpture of smooth raised lines continued from the concentric lamella?.
The basal and anterior valve-margins are crenulated inside, as is also the margin along the lunule.
Length 19.5, alt.
19, semidiameter 8 mm.
This species resembles C. woodwardi Guppy, from the Bowden Oligocene, but differs by having a smaller lunule, and in the details of sculpture, as shown in the figure.. Chione sp.
undet.
A species resembling C. woodwardi, but reaching a length of over 40 mm., occurred as casts retaining very little of the shell.
Chione (Lirophora) ulocyma (Dall).
Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1296, PL 42, fig.
5 (Miocene of Alum Bluff, Calhoun County, Fla., etc.).
Venus (Chione, Lirophora) ulocyma Dall, Toula, Jahrb., p. 724, PI.
25, figs.
20-22.
There seem to be two forms : one agreeing with the' type figure of ulocyma in having coarse concentric sculpture; the other having much finer, more numerous wrinkles.
In the former the beaks appear to be smooth, but possibly as the result of wear.
In the finely sculptured form the beaks have about five thin concentric widely spaced lamina?, preceding the corrugated stage, such as are described for C. burnsi Dall.
This race may be called C. ulocyma holocyma.
In this race, as well as in the coarse form, the radial grooves are very strongly developed.
*Chione (Liriphora) mactropsis (Conrad) Crateloupia mactropsis Conrad, Pacific R. R. Rep., V, p. 328, PI.
6, fig.
54.
Chione (Liriphora) mactropsis Conr., Dall.
Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1294.
Eocene and Oligocene of Isthmus of Darien, Blake; Gatun and Vamos-a-Vamos, Panama Canal, Agassiz.
10.5 K. w. of Colon, Hill (Dall).
Chiriqui, Dr. John Evans (Gabb).
Pitar centangulata n. sp.
Pitaria (Hyphantosoma) n.
sp., Toula, Jahrb., p. 726, PL 28, fig.
16.
Cf.
Pitaria (Hyphantosoma) opisthogrammata and fioridana Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,267.
This species is closely related, as Toula has pointed out, to the above-named species of Dall.
It differs from P. fioridana (from the Chipola Oligocene) in the rotund-oval, not " subtrigonal " shape,and in the even rotundity of the valves, without trace of a flattening or sulcus running to the posterior base; but it agrees with fioridana in the very fine, markedly zigzag sculpture, there being three to four lines to a millimeter.
P. opisthogrammata, of the Floridian Pliocene, is a "rounded-quadrate" shell with "the zigzag sculpture nearly obsolete."
Pitar cora n. sp.
Pi.
XXVIII, fig.
3.
The shell is extremely thin, oval, with prosogyrate beaks at the anterior fourth ; rather plump ; dorsal margin rather concave in front of, and slightly convex behind, the beaks.
Sculpture of fine, nearly even concentric riblets, without radial striation.
No denned lunule or escutcheon.
Interior unknown, but the valve-margins are smooth inside.
Length 35, alt.
26.5, diam.
18.5 mm.
This species occurred as casts in a hard matrix retaining the shell in places.
P. hilli Dall is a longer, lower shell.
*Macrocallista maculata (L.) (?).
Cytherea (?)
(Meretrix) dariena Conrad, Pacific R. R. Rep., VI, p. 72, PI.
5, fig.
21. .
"Isthmus of Darien."
Identified by Gabb and Dall with the above recent species, but the cast figured by Conrad seems to us uncharacteristic.
*Pitar hillii Dall.
Pitaria (Lamelliconcha) hillii Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,268, PI.
54, fig.
7.
Near Gatun.
*Pitar circinata (Horn).
Venus circinata Born, Mus.
Test.
Vindobon., p. 61.
PI.
4, fig.
8.
Pitaria (Lamelliconcha) circinata Born, Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1269.
Cytherea funcea Guppy, Q. Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond., XXII, p. 582, PI.
22, fig.
13 (Oligocene of Cumana, Venezuela).
Gatun (Dall).
Also recent, on both coasts of Central America.
It is a more coarsely, sharply sculptured shell than P. cora.
*Callocardia (Agriopoma) gatunensis Dall.
C.
(A.)
gatunensis Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,260, PI.
54, fig.
1.
Toula, Jahrb., p. 723, PL 25, fig.
23.
Gatun ; Monkey Hill.
*Callocardia gatunensis multifilosa Dall.
Dall, /.
c, p. 1,261, PI.
54, fig.
15.
Gatun, with the preceding.
Also Ponton, Santo Domingo.
We have not seen this species, which should resemble Pilar cora rather 'closely, except as to the lunule.
Another Callocardia, undetermined, is recorded by Dall from Vamosa-Vamos (t. c, p. 1,261).
Clementia dariena (Conrad).
PI.
XXVTII, fig.
l. Meretrix dariena Conrad, Pacific R. R. Rep., V, p. 328, PI.
6, fig.
55.
Clementia dariena Conr., Gabh, Journ.
A. N. 8.
Phila.
(2), VIII, p. 344, PI.
44, fig.
16.
Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,235.
Toula, Jahrb., p. 725, PI.
27, figs.
9/10.
A common clam in the Gatun Oligocene, also found in the presumably later bed at Sapote, Costa Rica.
No nearly related species has been found in the Santo Domingo or Bowden beds.
Cyclinella gatuneusis Dall.
C. gatunensis Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,285, PI.
52, fig.
18.
In the best preserved specimens the sculpture of somewhat threadlike concentric lines is about equally strong over the whole valve, except near the beaks.
Except for the tenuity of the shell, it might be a Dosinia.
MACTRID^J.
*Mactra dariensis Dall.
M. dariensis Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 895.
Vamos-aVamos .
CORBTJLIDiE.
Corbula gatunensis Toula.
C. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 733, PI.
27, fig.
12.
This species attains a larger size than Toula's type, an example measuring, length 26, alt.
22 mm.
It is remarkable for the disparity in sculpture between the ribbed neanic and the smooth mature stage.
Corbula sphenia Dall.
Corbula (Cuneocorbula) sphenia Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., p. 847, PI.
36, fig.
10 (Chipola River Oligocene).
A single valve agrees fairly well with the account of this species; It has more and narrower concentric ribs than the figure of that species shows, and is larger, length 22.2, alt.
13.5 mm.
Probably identical with C. dominicensis Gabb, but there are some slight differences.
Corbula sericea Dall.
Corbula (Cuneocorbula) sericea Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., p. 848, PI.
6, fig.
8 (Oligocene of Bowden, Jamaica).
A single valve from Gatun is evidently referable to this species.
♦Corbula alabamiensis Lea.
C. alabamiensis Lea, Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 841.
Described from the Alabama Eocene (Claibornian) ; reported by Dall from the Gatun beds.
*Corbula gregorioi Cossmann.
C. gregorioi Cossm., Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 843.. A Claibornian Eocene species reported by Dall from the Gatun beds.
♦Corbula heterogenea Guppy.
C. heterogenea Guppy, Dall.
Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 850.
Vamos-a-Vamos (Dall).
*Corbula viminea Guppy.
C. viminea Guppy, Dall, Trans.
Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 850.
Vamos-a-Vamos (Dall).
TEREDID^L Teredo dendrolestes n. sp.
Text fig.
3 ; PI.
I, fig.
10.
The thinwalled tubes are crowded,, run with the grain of the wood, as usual, curving outward at the orifice.
They have a diameter of about 5 mm., the longest (broken) reaching a length of about 60 mm.
The terminus of the tube is hemispherical.
It encloses a very delicate shell shaped ....-•' like the annexed outline figure.
There are long apophyses.
The exterior of the shell is unknown, Fig.
3. being cemented to the calcified tube.
SOLENlD^!.
♦Solecurtus gatunensis Toula.
Solecurtus gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 732, PL 28, fig.
12.
*Solecurtus strigillatus (L.).
Solecurtus (Macha) strigillatus L., Toula, Jahrb., p. 731, text fig.
11, PL 27., fig.
12.
*Thracia gatunensis Toula.
Thracia gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 757, text fig.
15.
Reference to Plates XXIIXXIX.
Plate XXII.
— Fig.
1.
— Terebra loolfgangi Toula.
Fig.
2.
— Terebra gatunensis Toula.
Figs.
3-6.
— Terebra wolfgangi Toula.
Fig.
7.
— Terebra subsulcifera n.
sp., X 2.
Figs.
8, 9.
— Terebra gansapata n.
sp., two views of the type, fig.
S, X 5.
Fig.
10.
— Area dariensis n. sp.
Fig.
11.
— Teredo dendrolestes n. sp.
Plate XXIII.
— Fig.
1.
— Conus molis n. sp.
Figs.
2, 3.
— Conus gaza n. sp.
(Santo Domingo).
Fig.
4.
— Conus imitator n. sp.
Figs.
5, 6.
— Conus concavitecbum n. sp.
Fig.
7.
— ■Drillia fusinus n. sp.
Fig.
S. — Drillia zooki n. sp.
Fig.
9.
— Conus cemulator n.
sp., X 2.
Figs.
10, 11.
— Drillia isthmica n. sp.
Plate XXIV.
— Figs.
1, 2.
— Cancellaria dariena trachyostraca n. subsp.
Figs.
3, 4.
— Cancellaria dariena Toula.
Figs.
5, 6.
— Cancellaria decaptyx n.
sp., two views of the type.
Fig.
7.
— Mitra, sp.
undet., part of the columella.
Fig.
8.
— Mitra, sp.
undet., internal cast, No.
5,515, coll.
Princeton University.
Fig.
9.
— Mitra dariensis, n. sp.
Fig.
10.
Marginella gatunensis n. sp.
Fig.
11.
— Mitra longa Gabb, Gatun specimen.
Fig.
12.
— Marginella coniform is Sowb., vai.
Fig.
13.
— Marginella leander n. sp.
Fig.
14.
— Solenosteira dalli n. sp.
Plate XXV.
— Figs.
1, 2.
— Phos gatunensis Toula.
Fig.
3.
— Phos subsemicostatus n. sp.
Fig.
4.
— Metula gabbi n. sp.
Fig.
5.
— Anachis fugax n. sp.
Figs.
6, 7.
— Strombina cyphonotus P. and J., n.
sp., Santo Domingo.
Fig.
8.
— Metula gabbi n. sp.
Figs.
9, 10.
— Strombina prisma J. and P., n.
sp., Santo Domingo.
Figs.
11, 12.
— Strombina lessepsiana n. sp.
Plate XXVI.
— Fig.
1.
— Murex polynematicus n. sp.
Fig.
2.
— Murex gatunensis n. sp.
Fig.
3.
— Strombus gatunensis Toula.
Figs.
4, 5.
— Strombus gatunensis Toula, No.
5,512, coll.
Princeton University.
Fig.
6.
— Typhis gabbi n sp.
Fig.
7.
— Strombus (?)
sp., internal cast.
Fig.
8.
— Distorsio gatunensis Toula.
Figs.
9, 10.
— Cyproca henikeni Sowb., smoothish var., No.
5,511, Princeton University.
Plate XXVII.
— Fig.
1.
— Turritella mimetes n. sp.
Figs.
2, 3.
— Turritella altilira Conrad.
Figs.
4, 5.
— Turritella gatunensis Conrad.
Figs.
6, 7.
— Natica, sp.
undet.
Internal cast.
Fig.
8.
— Leda bedboce n. sp.
Fig.
9.
— Turritella gatunensis Con.
Pseudomorph in calcite.
Fig.
10.
— Turritella sapotensis n.
sp., Sapote, Costa Rica.
Figs.
11, 12.
— Niicula (Acila) isthmica n. sp.
Plate XXVIII.
— Fig.
1.
— Clementia dariensis Conr.
Fig.
2.
— Pecten scissuratus Dall.
Typical form from Santo Domingo.
Fig.
3.
— Pitar eora n. sp.
Fig.
4.
— Pecten effossus n. sp.
Fig.
5.
— Pecten scissuratus Dall.
Santo Domingo.
Fig.
6.
— Pecten effossus n. sp.
Fig.
7.
— Pecten toulce n. sp.
Fig.
8.
— Chione tegulum n. sp.
Fig.
9.
— Glycymeris carbasina n. sp.
Fig.
10.
— Glycymeris canalis n. sp.
t' Fig.
11.
— Cardium stiriatum n. sp.
Plate XXIX.
— Figs.
1, 2.
— Ostrea gatunensis n. sp.
May 2.
Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
Dr. Henry Tucker having taken the Chair, Dr. Conklin made a communication on the Zoological Station at Naples and the Zoological Congress at Graz, with illustrations.
(No abstract.)
May 16.
Milton J. Greenman, M.D., in the Chair.
Ninety-six persons present.
Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., gave an account of a year's sojourn in Costa Rica, illustrated by lantern slides prepared from photographs taken by Mrs. Calvert.
A paper entitled "Some Aboriginal Sites of Mississippi Paver," by Clarence B. Moore, was accepted for publication in the Journal.
Henry Morris, M.D., H. C. Meyer, G. Carl Huber were elected members.
The following were elected correspondents: Edmund Beecher Wilson, of New York; David Starr Jordan, of Leland Stanford, Jr. University, California; Jacques Loeb, of New York ; Thomas Wayland Vaughan, of Washington; William Bullock Cark, of Baltimore.
The following were ordered to be printed: THE LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS.
BY NORMAN EUGENE M'lNDOO.
Introduction and Methods 375 A.
The Lyriform Organs 376 I. Morphology 376 1.
Structure 376 2.
Disposition 380 (a) Theridium tepidariorum Koch 380 (6) Other Species 385 (c) Individual and Sexual Variations 395 (d) Conclusions 396 3.
Discussion 398 (a) Disposition 398 (b) Structure , 399 (c) Disposition in Other Orders of Arachnids 400 (d) Phylogeny 401 II.
Physiology 402 4.
Experiments 402 (a) Olfactory Sense 402 (b) Hearing* 405 (c) Function of the Lyriform Organs 406 (1) Temperature Sense 409 5.
Discussion 410 (a) Function of the Lyriform Organs 410 (b) Olfactory Experiments 410 (c) Sense of Hearing 411 B.
The Tactile LIairs 413 Bibliography 415 Explanation of Plates XXX-XXXIII.
416 Introduction and Methods.
Since the discovery of the lyriform organs in 1878 only two important papers have appeared in regard to them.
The object of this present paper has been to make an accurate and careful study of their morphology and physiology.
The tactile hairs were later taken up in connection with the lyriform organs because their innervation was very similar to that of the latter structures.
The work has been prosecuted under the direction of Professor Montgomery, to whom I am indebted not only for the majority of my specimens, but also for suggestions and kindly criticisms which have made this work possible.
He suggested this subject because these organs are so little known.
The exotic species were kindly sent by Dr. Purcell, of South Africa; by Dr. Petrunkevitch, of Yale University, and by Mr. Nathan Banks, of the U. S. National Museum.
The experimental work was done at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole from June 7 to September 20, 1910.
In regard to the methods for preparing sections, after the legs had been removed from the spiders, they were cut into short pieces and then were fixed a few hours in either strong Flemming's solution or in Carnoy's fluid, the latter being the modified form of equal parts of absolute alcohol, glacial acetic acid and chloroform with corrosive sublimate to excess.
Carnoy's fluid was the better of the two fixatives and my best sections were obtained by leaving the material in the fluid over night.
The material was dehydrated in the ordinary way in alcohols but was cleared by using the sinking method in cedar oil.
It was embedded about an hour in hard paraffin (54° C.) On account of the hard cuticula perfect serial sections were impossible, although good sections were had in two ways: (1) After fixation the material was left in a solution of equal parts of 70 per cent, alcohol and glycerin two oi' three weeks; (2) The material was fixed immediately after moulting.
The latter method was the better one for the cuticula was very soft and thin.
The sections were cut ten microns thick and were stained with Uelafield's hsematoxylin and eosin.
In preparing the external surfaces for the study of the disposition •of the lyriform organs the following method was pursued: A large slit was made on the dorsal side of the abdomen of the specimens, then they were dropped into a cold solution of caustic potash.
In this solution the adults remained from six to thirty-six hours, the time depending on the size of the individual; for the spiderlings one hour was sufficient time.
After being removed from the caustic potash solution all the internal disintegrated tissues were carefully removed with a camel's hair brush and water.
Now the "skins" were permanently mounted between two cover slides in a one-fifth saturated solution of potassium acetate.
Such a solution gave the proper refractive index so that the slits appeared more or less transparent while the surrounding cuticula was usually darker.
The two cover slides were held together with a solution of asphaltum.
For the dark colored specimens bright day light was used, but for the .light colored ones a strong yellow artificial light was the only one which was satisfactory.
A.
The Lyriform Organs.
il.
MORPHOLOGY.
1.
Structure of Lyriform Organs.
A lyriform organ is a eutieular structure peculiar to arachnids, ^composed usually of several single slits which lie side by side and more or less parallel with each other.
This group of slits is generally surrounded by a border (fig.
536) 1 , which is nothing more than a difference in pigmentation, that gives the lyre-shape to the organ.
Inside the border the pigmentation is usually much lighter than outside, but sometimes the reverse occurs.
Hence with considerable magnification these organs appear as light or dark spots while the slits inside appear almost transparent.
The superficial appearance of a slit reminds one of a long slightly bent spindle which has an opening or dilatation (di.)
at the centre or nearer one end than the other (fig.
53).
Lyriform organs may be divided into compound and simple organs.
A compound organ contains four or more single slits, which may either be enclosed by a common border or each slit may be surrounded by its own border; in the latter case if the borders are not joined with each other, then the structure may be called a diffused organ; sometimes the border is entirely absent.
A compound organ never exceeds more than thirty slits and the average for Theridium tepidariorum is ten, but the number containing four, five or six is comparatively small.
A simple organ contains either two or three single slits, around all of which there is a common definite border.
A cross-section of a lyriform organ shows that it may sometimes be located on a slight elevation or at other times in a slight depression, but in either case the cuticula at this place is considerably thicker and sometimes twice as thick as at other places.
Fig.
1 shows this very well.
This drawing represents about one-third of the entire cross-section of the trochanter of a mature male Agalena ncevia just moulted.
The cuticula (cu.)
is only diagrammatic as taken from various species, but here its thickness represents its greatest development at any time in this species.
The nerve (N.) is drawn in the location it holds when its branch (N.
b.)
penetrates the hypodermal basement membrane (b. m.), 220 microns in front of this locality where the nerve branch just begins to leave the nerve the latter is much nearer the centre of the leg.
The sense cells (s. c.) are shown in their natural positions but they have been reconstructed from nine sections just in front of where the nerve branch enters the hypodermis.
All the other parts are taken from only one section in front of the organ.
In this drawing one notices that some of the slits pass entirely through the cuticula, some two-thirds through, and others show only a slight indentation.
This means that the section passed exactly through 'The figures are numbered consecutively on Plates XXX-XXXIII.
25 the dilatation in the case of the first, near the dilatation of the second, and only across the ends of the slits in the last.
Hence the deeper the opening the nearer the section passed to the dilatation.
Thus the internal cavity of a slit may be represented by the diagram (fig.
4), which shows it to have the form of a flattened funnel with a central enlargement.
At least three distinct layers are discernible in the cuticula, but they are not shown in fig.
1.
The hypodermis (hyp.
), usually twice as thick as the cuticula, lies just beneath the latter.
Its long cylindrical cells stand at right angles to its outer membrane (o. m.) and to the basement membrane (b. m.).
The outer membrane is very thin and never shows any nuclei, while the basement membrane is much thicker and reveals several elongate nuclei (b. m. n.).
Directly beneath and on either side near the organ these hypodermal cells appear to be vacuolated at their bases, while at some distance from the organ they are not vacuolated.
With Delafield's hematoxylin and eosin the cell walls and cytoplasm stain very faintly, but the nuclei stand out very conspicuously, and nucleoli are very numerous.
There are always just as many sense cells (s. c.) as there are slits in the organ ; if the slits are few in number the sense cells lie at the base of the hypodermis directly beneath the organ.
If the slits are many then there is not enough space just beneath the organ, so the sense cells are scattered along the basement membrane of the hypodermis toward the nerve as seen in the drawing.
Each sense cell is always as large and sometimes three times as large as any hypodermal cell.
It is invariably spindle-shaped with one of its poles running to the nerve of the leg and the other pole connecting with the dilatation (di.)
of its respective slit.
The nuclei are usually two or three times as large as those of the hypodermal cells and stain slightly darker, although sometimes both kinds of nuclei have the same dimensions and degree of staining capacity when it is difficult to distinguish the two kinds of cells unless one can readily see their walls.
Moreover, most sense cells have at least at one end of their nuclei aggregations (ag.
cyt.)
of dense staining cytoplasm, which does not occur in the hypodermal cells.
Also each sense cell has at least one very large nucleolus besides the numerous smaller ones and its cytoplasm stains slightly darker.
Therefore, when we consider all these differences, we see that the sense cells are different from ordinary hypodermal cells, but since in many cases these differences are very difficult to distinguish, as with those small sense cells just beneath the organ in the drawing, we must conclude that sense cells are nothingmore than modified hypodermal cells which have taken on a different function.
In the specimens just moulted the sensory fibers were never connected with the dilatations (di.)
of the slits, merely because they apparently had not had sufficient time for regeneration since the casting of the old skin.
But in specimens six or seven hours after moulting a few of these connections were noticed, while in individuals with thick cuticula many such connections were observed.
Fig.
3 shows two of these sense cells as they actually occur in a section of the trochanter of Th.
tepidariorum six or seven hours after moulting.
Here the cuticula is broken as-usual, but one nerve fibre connects with its dilatation, the other one has either been broken loose or has not yet had time to join its dilatation since moulting.
In good serial sections the nerve of the leg is very distinct and branches from it can very readily be traced to the lyriform organs.
Within these branches the nerve fibres can quite easily be traced to the sense cells.
Usually the nerve is found near the axis of the leg, but in some cases it lies closer to the hypodermis as shown in fig.
1.
Both the nerve and its branches are enclosed by a neurilemma (neu.)
whose walls show numerous nuclei (n.
neu.).
Internal to this neurilemma the fibres are shown in cross section as the clear spaces with here and there a cross section of a tolerably deep staining nucleus, probably a neuroglia nucleus (neu.
n.).
These nuclei are about onethird as large as those of the hypodermal cells; their nucleoli are generally arranged around the periphery and their chromatin-network as in the other kinds of nuclei is rather difficult to see.
The network (neu.
w.) of the nerve is probably the walls of these neuroglia cells.
I was able to trace the innervation of a few of the single isolated slits.
Fig.
5, drawn from two consecutive sections of Th.
tepidariorum six or seven hours after moulting, shows the sense cell with its fibre connecting with the dilatation of the slit.
This cell has a similar position, shape, size and structure to one of those belonging to.
an organ.
At certain places in the legs the muscles occupy almost all the spacesurrounded by the hypodermis, but generally near the lyriform organs they are not so extensive.
At almost any place one may choose at least three or four such muscles (m.
b.)
as the one shown in the drawing may be readily seen.
The single walled sarcolemma (sar.)
surrounds, many muscle bundles, each one of which reveals either two or three nuclei (m.
nuc.)
lying in the sarcoplasm.
Each leg possesses a large artery (art.)
which usually lies against or near the nerve.
It has a double wall which often shows nuclei.
Two large venous sinuses (v.
sin.)
are always present, one on the ventral and the other on the dorsal side.
In fact each one seems to lie directly beneath a lyriform organ.
The blood plasm (b. p.) and blood corpuscles (b. c.) can readily be distinguished in both the artery and sinuses.
The connective tissue (con.
t.) which stains very faintly occupies all the remaining space in the leg.
Its nuclei (con.
t. n.) which are very conspicuous are about one-half as large as those of the hypoderm is.
Fig.
2 is a longitudinal-transverse diagram of the distal end of a femur showing the anatomy of the leg with the innervation of the lyriform organs, the fixed tactile hairs (t. h.) and the muscles which control the movable tactile hairs (mov.
h.).
2.
Disposition.
(a) Theridium tepidariorum Koch.
In making a comparative study of the lyriform organs of Araneads, I have used thirty-nine different species representing twenty-seven of the thirty-eight families recognized by Simon (1892).
Since Th.
tepidariorum is most conveniently studied, I shall describe its lyriform organs in detail and then state the variations found in the •other species after the explanation of the table on page 394.
See figs.
13 and 14.
The legs and palps may be divided for description into four surfaces.
The organs, to begin with the one on the coxa of each leg and palp, may be numbered from 1 to 13 with No.
13 on the metatarsus of each leg.
In Th.
tepidariorum there is a constant number of thirteen organs on each leg; four of this thirteen are on the dorsal, three on the posterior, two on the anterior, and four on the ventral surface.
Each palp has only seven organs, three of which are on the dorsal and the other four are on the ventral surface.
Each cheliceion has a constant number of four organs, No.
14 and 15 of which lie on the ventral and No.
16 and 17 on the dorsal surface.
There is always a constant number of two organs located on the dorsal side of the pedicle, one of these may be called No.
18.
The single isolated slits are found more or less regularly distributed on all the appendages, sternum, cephalothoracic shield and on the ventral side of the abdomen (figs.
13, 14).
Every organ has a constant position except the three on the trochanter and the one on the coxa.
The latter organ occurs either on the ventral or posterior side of the joint.
The organs on the trochanter rotate around the segment and sometimes the same organ may be found on either the ventral or dorsal surface in two different legs as organ No.
2 on the first and third leg (figs.
13, 14).
Organ No.
3 may occur on either the anterior or posterior side of the trochanter as on the second and first legs.
Also No.
4 may lie on either the dorsal or ventral surface as in the first and third legs.
Organ No.
1 (figs.
13, 16) is a simple structure of three slits on the first three legs while on the fourth there are only two slits in it.
These slits have about the same dimensions and the dilatations are nearer the proximal end of the organ.
The distal end of the slits never come in contact with the line of articulation.
No 2 varies slightly in shape, number and position of the slits.
In fig.
52 the organ is from the ventral side of the first leg, while in fig.
53 the organ from the anterior side of the second leg shows the slight variation.
The distal end never crosses the line of articulation.
No.
3 is more or less diffused (fig.
15), but on the first and second legs the border completely surrounds the organ.
Instead of the long axis of No.
4 lying parallel with the long axis of the leg, it lies transversely (fig.
30) and it always lies against the line of articulation and sometimes one-half way across it.
No.
5 on the ventral surface at the extreme distal end of the femur always lies with its distal end touching the line of articulation, but very seldom crosses it.
The convex part of the organ and the shorter slits invariably face the posterior surface of the leg (figs.
13, 24).
No.
6 is like No.
5 except it lies on the dorsal side of the femur and usually one-half way across the line of articulation (fig.
14).
Its concave side and shorter slits face the anterior surface of the leg.
Organs No.
7 and 8 (figs.
13, 14, 58) are always found on the anterior surface of the patella.
No.
7 (58a) lies almost equidistant from either end of the joint near No.
8 (586) and always between the latter and the dorsal side.
Its size is almost one-half that of No.
8 and its slits are very long and extremely narrow.
No.
8 lies nearer the distal end of the patella, usually very near the Hue of articulation, but never against it.
Its slits are much longer than those in No.
7 and the smaller ones face the ventral surface as in No.
7.
One finds organ No.
9 at the distal end of the patella on the dorsal side about 135 degrees from organ No.
7.
It never touches the line of articulation and is usually some distance from it.
Its apex points toward the angle formed by the line of articulation with the edge of the anterior side.
Its shorter slits always face the anterior surface of the leg.
One or two or no single isolates slits usually accompany it and these occur near the concave side which faces the anterior surface of the leg (figs.
14, 18).
Nos.
10 and 11 (figs.
13, 57), like Nos.
7 and 8, are paired, and they occur on the ventral surface at the extreme distal end of the tibia.
Xo.
10 lies mostly across the first line of articulation (1.
1.
a.)
with its apex pointing toward the articulation.
Its shorter slits always face the anterior surface of the leg and it invariably lies between this surface and organ No.
11.
The latter organ lies only slightly over the first line of articulation with its apex directed from the articulation.
Its shorter slits face the anterior surface of the leg or exactly toward the apex of No.
10.
Organ No.
12 lies at the extreme distal end of the tibia on the dorsal surface at the edge of the anterior side.
It lies two-thirds across the first line of articulation with its apex touching the second line of articulation (2.
1.
a.).
Its shorter slits and greater concave side face the anterior side of the leg (figs.
14, 45).
Organ No.
13 found on the posterior surface of the metatarsus covers most of the space at the extreme distal end.
The slits are transverse to the axis of the leg and they extend around about 120 degrees of the joint.
The border is entirely absent.
The shorter slits lie on the edge of the dorsal surface (figs.
14, 10).
The organs on the palps have a disposition similar to those of the legs.
Their shape is also similar but the number of their slits is less.
Organ No.
1 has only two slits instead of three (figs.
13, 27).
No.
2 lying on the ventral surface of the trochanter has only seven slits as compared with 15 to IS found in the same organ on the legs (figs.
13, 26).
No.
3 is absent.
No.
4 on the dorsal surface of the trochanter has seven or eight slits and its shape is very similar to that of No.
2 (fig.
14).
Nos.
5 and 6 have seven slits instead of eleven as on the legs (figs.
13, 14, 38).
No.
7 is missing.
The shape of No.
8 is more like that of No.
7 of the legs, but its arrangement of slits and disposition correspond to that of No.
8 of the legs.
It has only ten slits while on the legs there are twenty-one (figs.
13, 23).
No.
9 has the same number of slits as has that organ on the legs, and it is as large as the same structure found on the second and third pairs of legs, it never has any isolated slits (figs.
14, 17).
All the other organs on the palps are absent.
On the anterior and on the ventral extreme distal surfaces of the metatarsus of each leg, there is a single large slit.
It may or may not touch the line of articulation and its long axis is not quite parallel with the axis of the leg (figs.
13a, 146, 31).
On each the anterior and dorsal surface of all the legs and palps there is a transverse single slit near the distal end of the tarsus (figs.
13c, 14c/, 32a, b, c).
On the ventral surface of the palps and legs single isolated slits occur only on the sixth joint of the left palp (figs.
13c, 34a); on the femur of the first and second legs (figs.
13m, 37a), and on the tibia of the third leg (fig.
14).
On the dorsal surface of both the palps and legs the single slits are much more numerous and are arranged more or less in regular rows.
Thus we see several on the sixth and fifth joints of the palps (figs.
14/, 346).
On the legs they occur as follows — a row on each femur (figs.
13, 14», 376); three or four irregularly scattered on the patella of the third and fourth legs (fig.
13); on the tibia of the first, second and fourth legs a row (figs.
13, 14/, 34c); only two on each of the metatarsi of the first, third and fourth legs (figs.
13, 14).
Most all of these are parallel with the axis of the leg.
On either the dorsal or anterior surface of the trochanter of the second, third and sometimes the fourth leg, there are two or more isolated single slits (fig.
14).
Organs No.
14 and 15 lie on the outer edge of the ventral side at the distal end of the chelicera.
They are always paired and form a right angle with each other (fig.
13).
Organ No.
14 (fig.
51a) is the larger and lies near the outer edge.
Each organ has four slits, each of which has its own border.
All of these borders are more or less connected with each other.
Likewise organs No.
16 and 17 are paired, but are located on the outer edge of the dorsal surface at the distal end of the chelicera (fig.
14).
No.
16, the larger (fig.
55a), lies the nearer the outer edge.
It always has an associated single slit (fig.
55c).
Each organ has six slits whose borders are similar to those of Nos.
14 and 15.
( )n both the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the chelicera several small isolated slits lie along the outer edges (figs.
13,a, 14, 50).
Organ No.
IS is one of the paired structures found on the dorsal surface of the pedicle near the distal end.
Each organ lies near the outer edge and has transverse slits, but the longer axis of the organ lies almost parallel with the axis of the pedicle.
The diameter of the slits is very great and each slit has its own border, but all these borders are joined at their sides while the ends are free and do not pass around the ends of the slits as usual, but connect with these ends (figs.
13, 41).
Several scattered slits lie near the outer edges of the maxilla?
(figs.
136, 39).
Thirty-eight isolated slits of irregular sizes are found on the sternum arranged in a Y-shaped figure with the apex of the V at the distal end of the sternal plate.
Each row, which is composed of three or four groups more or less irregularly arranged and which contains about one-half the total sternal slits, is midway between the median line of the sternal plate and the outer edge of the sternum (fig.
13).
In the group of five slits (figs.
I3i, 42) no two are of the same size or shape.
The first and third largest ones do not have any distinct dilatation, while the other three do.
The second largest slit besides having its border also has a much darker colored circular disc which lies across the border at its middle.
On the ventral surface of the abdomen, we find a large isolated slit on either side of the epigynum near the lower end of the lung-book (figs.
13/, 44a).
Lower down at the same distance from the edge of the abdomen midway between the epigynum and spinnerets, there is another pair of large isolated slits.
Just in front of the spiracle there is another pair slightly smaller than the two preceding pairs (fig.
13).
On the left spinneret of the first pair there are three small isolated slits (figs.
13k, 446).
At the right posterior side of the cephalothoracic shield just above where the right fourth leg is attached there are two minute indistinct isolated slits (fig.
14).
The lyriform organs found in the seventeen day (just hatched) spiderling of Th.
tepidariorum have the same disposition as the corresponding ones in the adults.
But there are none on the first joint of the palps, the spinnerets, maxillae, labium, sternum, cephalothoracic shield and near the epigynum.
In other places the isolated slits are very scarce.
As compared with the organs of the adult female, those of the spiderling have almost proportionately the same size, but since the number of slits in the latter is about one-half that of the former, the slits are proportionately larger.
In order to compare the number of slits in each organ of the spiderling with that of the adult female, I shall indicate the number of each organ with a Roman letter and the number of slits in it with an Arabic figure.
In each case the number of adult slits appears first and of the juvenile second.
Palps.— I 2-0; II 7-5; III 0-0; IV 7-5; V and VI 7-2 each; VII 0-0; VIII 10-4, but the latter does not have the same shape as former; IX 7-4; all others are absent as in the adult, but the large slits on both palps and legs marked a, b, c, and d are present as in the female.
Legs.
— I 3-2; II 15-5, but the latter are all long and of equal length; III 7-0; JY 14-5, latter are all long and of equal length; V and VI 11-4 each, latter four all long and of equal length; VII 17-S; VIII 21-10; IX 6-3, in latter no isolated slits ever accompany organ as in the former; X 6-2; XI 11-6, in latter slits are about same length and are all long; XII 9-2, latter two are long ones; XIII 17-12; XIV 8-4; XV and XVI 4-2 each; XVII 6-2, young as adult with an associated slit; XVIII 6-2.
By referring to the table (p. 389) we see that while the adult female has 60 compound organs, its young just hatched has only 38.
By counting all the slits enumerated above the adidt has a few more than twice as many as the young, then by including the isolated slits in both we see as far as number is concerned, that when the young are hatched the lyriform organs are hardly one-half developed.
Thus after hatching the slits in the organs more than double themselves; organ No.
1 on the palps, the diffused organ No.
3 on the legs and the majority of the isolated slits make their appearance.
(b) Other Species.
In order to ascertain most of the variations found in the other species, reference is made to the tables on pp.
386-393.
At the top of this table the families are arranged as Simon recognizes them.
Just below the family names are entered the subfamilies, the generic and specific names.
The following abbreviations are employed : H, hunters; S, snarers; T, tube-dwellers; the numbers 1 to 7 for the joints of the legs correspond to coxa, trochanter, femur, patella, tibia, metatarsus, and tarsus.
Spinn., spinnerets; Chel., chelicera; Max., maxilla; Lab., labium; Stern., sternum; Ped., pedicle; Ceph.
S., cephalothoracic shield and Near Epigy., includes all the organs on the ventral side of the abdomen, usually occuring near the epigynum; C. ().
and S. O., compound and simple organs, and S. S., single slits.
Where only one segment is present in the spinnerets I have considered it the first one, although it may correspond to the second or third in other cases.
All the specimens were adults.
The young of Th.
tepidariorum is entered only for comparison, but has not been considered in the range or in the comparison of the adults..
The total includes all the organs and slits which could be found on all the legs, palp, spinnerets, cheliceron, and maxilla on one side of each specimen.
Hence the total contains slightly more than onehalf the number for each individual.
For the number of organs the amount of error is probably not greater than two per cent.
r while for the single slits not more than ten per cent.
The latter possibility of error is largely due to the three following reasons: (1) the slits when placed in profile are never discernible; (2) on account of the transparency; (3) the caustic potash treatment often causesartificial slits and no doubt often destroys some of those present.
386 [May, a "3 <-> Aviculariidse.
93 .a bo 8 § .
"j St 2 o c p .
>> 02 X Appendage.
1 Co 0.
2 6 ■r.
03 S Q ?
T 8,cL •S| n" &3 9 O -t9 9 9 1 $ l 2 3 4 5 6 6 6 1 3 2 3 3 q 1 CO cc 4 5 2 3 3 14 q o 2 2 3 5 6 EC 3 2 q d 2 2 2 4 6 1 1 03 1 6 2 ; j 1 2 2 3 4 q 03 02 oi 2 12 3 4 q u j lj 2 2 3 1 6 03 2 03 03 3 9 q d 2 2 q 1 f. J.
1 1st Leg.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 2 3 4 1 1 2 2 3 4 1 2 1 8 11 2 1 6 7 1 2 2 3 3 1 1 2 2 3 4 1 2 1 2 3 3 1 1 3 5 1 2 2 3 1 2 2 2 3 2 1 1 2 2 2 1 1 3 2 4 1 3 2 3 2 2 1 2 3 4 2 1 3 2 3 4 1 1 3 2 3 4 1 1 1 4 2 1 4 1 1 4 1 1 4 1 3 2 3 3 1 1 1 3 2 3 3 1 1 1 3 2 3 3 1 1 1 3 2 3 3 1 1 J 1 3 2 1 5 3 2 3 2 1 3 I 1 1 3 2 3 1 1 3 2 3 1 1 2 2 2 2 ] 3 hi) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 3d Leg.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 2 3 4 1 2 4 2 1 2 2 3 4 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 bb 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 2 3 3 1 4 2 1 3 1 2 2 3 4 1 1 3 2 2 2 3 2 1 1 1 s 'S, 1 2 3 i 10 4 4 13 34 20 2 4 1 16 6 3 15 13 6 34 2 11 4 21 5 6 2 8 1 1 2 3 4 4 5 7 26 1 4 9 3 6 7 1 7 3 1 2 2 2 Chel 3 2 Max 4 Lab Stern Ped 8 Ceph.
S Near Epigy Total... 66j 5 176 1 I 63 1 139 55 5 70 69 1 97 j 69 i 2 64 50 11 21 1911.]
387 '3 H 'a >, t»3 8 aj9 8) ■1.
co'E si 03 O odo3 ft!
'a c Appendage.
.3 £ 3 •8 ~* f. >> V g £ N GO ■g'o s ^, w r— 1 .00 -2 F C 5 N CO «o £ ""Si t) >-9 9 i 9 Q 9 9 9 6 d m d , d 03 d O 1 CO 0° d CO* d d CQ d O « o DQ GQ ej 7.
CO 7 /.
OJ CO DQ CQ to cc 1 1 1 1 6 1 2 1 2 i 2 2 2 2 p 3 1 1 2 2 2 2 2!
2 33 4 2 1 8| 3 3 3 3 3 5 2 8 6 4 12 3 6 3 1 1 1 1 10 1 ll 2 2 3 3 3 3 2 bC 3 2 2 2 5 2 2 2 J 4 3 3 : 3 3 2 3 0!
5 2 1 2 2 1 1 3 2 2 6 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 1 2 7 1 10 6 2 1 3 1 ll 1 7 1 2 1 1 2 2 3 1 4 2 3 2 0) 3 2 2!
2 1 2 2 2 ►4 4 3 3 3 3 2 3 5 3 1 3 2 3 1 3 3 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 7 2 6 1 1 3 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 2 2 1 2 0> 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 h-1 4 3 3 3 3 2 3 CO 5 3 3 3 4 1 3 2 1 6 1 1 1 l!
1 1 1 1 1 1 7 1 5 3 1 1 7 1 1 1 2 2 2 4 2 2 2 fcC 0) 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 f-1 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 -^ 5 2 1 1 2 3 3 3 3 2 1 ■* 6 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 7 2 3 4 2 ■ft 1 2 3 3 7 4 Chel 4 12 2 5!
2 1 5 4 4 1 ?
?, 2 Max ?
8 16 10 q Lab 4 4 5 Stern 7 21 36 30 10 22 Ped 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 2 18 2 52 9 €eph.
S.... Near Epigy.
2 1 H 2 Total... 49 10 34 53 6 88 66 ° 146 1 62 1 71 59 49 388 [May, Dysderidae.
8 '3 a H'c5 8 • u «' 93 -c 8 _g '1 OQ 60 EH co '3 03 | .
"si CO Oh '7!
s eo'E 0} fefi a ID P, g "5 1-5 !*» « Qi &j N Q 1-2 • i.§a £CO »«; Q u w £ * lis 3 • J A ft, c ■!■-£ sua £ s» ci 6-.
«3^ 9 9 .
"T" i 9 Q -r O -r d 6 GO * 6 6 1 co d d CO d d CO d d 1 d 6 1 cq 1 o OS <c a i» OQ o 02 CO d to CO » CO CO X j CO 3 1 10 1 1 5 2 1 4 3 2 2 2 2 4 a, 3 2 4 2 11 2 2 2 2 3 S3 4 1 2 2 3 1 3 2 5 6 2 1 5 2 2 2 1 17 1 1 3 10 1 1 1 i 10 1 2 2 8 4 2 2, 3 2 2 6 feC 05 3 1 15 2 15 2 2 2 22 2 5 yA 4 3 1 2 5 3 3 3 9 3 CO 5 2 2 1 6 3 3 2 3 3 8 '— , 6 1 5 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 7 6 1 1 2 1 2 2 1 5 3 6 2 1 3 1 1 3 6 1 3 6 SXj 3 2 2 1 6 2 2 1 2 16 2 9 _; 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 4 3 ~3 5 2 2 1 4 3 1 1 4 1 3 7 6 7 1 1 1 3 5 1 1 • 1 1 2 8 1 1 4 1 1 9 5 1 1 9 1 2 1 4 3 1 2 3 1 3 bC 3 2 2 1 7 2 2 2 10 2 2 J 4 3 2 4 3 2 3 6 3 '"O 5 2 1 1 2 1 3 3 2 3 7 3 6 7 1 1 4 2 1 1 1 3 4 1 1 8 51 1 9 1 9 1 1 1 8 1 2 2 1 2 1 2 3 3 7 feb 0) 3 2 1 2 12 2 2!
2 10 2 1 h5 4 3 3 1 3 2 3 8 3 5 3 3 3 3 1 2 7 3 1 -f 6 7 1 1 1 3 4 1 1 1 1 11 4 2 2 rt 1 4 2 1 1 3 OQ 2 3 11 38: Chel 3 1 12 4 25 ; 2 4 2 2 4 4 22 4 i 13 Max 4 32 4 13 26 10 3 32 21 7 2 27 5 Lab Stern 23 Ped 2 4 2 8 5 4 2 2 2 2 4 2 Ceph.S.. Near Epigy 6 Total... 48 ( 136 49 5 237 1 50 1 60 52 6 34 62 241 64 ; 1 205 1 1911.]
389 8 Pholcidae.
Theridiidse.
a o 1-5 8 u M 02^ '3 y, £ QD Group Theridiese.
I 8 §00 g m EC E» .1 « ft, S. Theridium.
a a Oh .S 3 c S, oM 9 9 9 !
c?
Young.
9 6 6 CO 6 d o3 d d CO 6 1 d CO d d CO d 6 CO d x CO d CO « o n tn o <zi CO c OQ CO DQ CO 1 i| 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 3 2 1 2 1 1 2 2 a, 3 2 2 1 3 2 2 2 2 83 P4 4 5 6 3 4 6 10 3 1 2 1 2 3 2 8 1 1 3 1 1 2 2 3 3 2 2 3 b£ 0) 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 6 2 2 2 13 ^ 4 3 1 3 3 3 2 1 3 2 +2 03 5 4 2 2 3 3 1 1 2 3 8 r1 6 1 1 6 1 4 1 2 1 4 1 2 1 3 7 6 2 5 2 2 3 1 1 1 1 1 2 4 2 3 2 6 2 3 bli a> 3 2 3 1 2 8 2 2 2 5 1-1 4 3 3 3 3 2 1 3 -0 5 4 5 2] 2 3 3 !
1 2 3 3 6 1 10 1 5 1 2 i 1 2 1 2 7 7 2 4 2 2 4 1 1 6 1 1 1 2 3 2 1 2 3 2 3 blj 3 2 1 1 1 2 13 2 5 2 2 6 h-1 4 3 3 3 3 3 2 1 3 73 5 4 2 2 3 3 1 1 2 3 6 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 4 7 5 8 4 2 2 3 1 1 7 1 1 1 .
2 3 2 2 2 2 3 bC a; 3 2 2 2 4 2 2 8 ■J 4 3 3 3 3!
2 1 3 4 J3 5 4 1 2 2 1 3; 1 2 3 7 -& 6 7 1 3 4 1 2 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 2 2 1 4 3 a 32 1 2 3 4 9 1 3 Chel 3 2 4 4 2 4 4 1 4 11 Max 22 6 55 5 37 10 Lab 1 Stern 36 Ped 2 2 12 2 38 22 22 2 60 5 Ceph.S.... Near Epigy.
1 2 Total... 65 5 198 41 12 1 82 50 5 57J 48 6 37 154 390 [May, Theridiidse.
Argiopidae.
Group Theridiece.
S. Linyphiinse S. +3 'o Theridium.
c "S s lit 1 3 £ 5 « F m' ft S >> © ■+--.
CD ■|-§W to a < ■cm o i c • 8 fct; = ■5 S ft, c?
9 9 9 9 9 O O m d 6 & d d 03 d o -'• 6 !
° W 6 d 02 C?
J CD* GG o GO » o 00 CO o CO .
6 CO w o CO CD 1 1 i 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 2h 3 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 1 c3 4 5 2 3 6 2 1 1 3 1 6 12 5 1 3 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 4 2 1 3 2 3 2 24 2 7 2 7 2 2 2 8 2 1 1-1 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 en 5 3 9 3 10 3 9 2 3 7 2 1 t— I 6 1 10 1 1 13 1 2 1 8 1 7 5 3 3 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 3 4 3 2 3 2 Mi 3 2 13 2 8 2 16 2 2 2 11 2 2 h-3 4 3 1 3 3 3 3 3 "~0 5 3 3 3 3 5 1 1 7 2 1 3 2 1 6 1 7 1 1 1 10 1 5 1 1 1 7 3 3 5 4 1 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 bfl 3 2 11 2 5 2 1 2 1 2 4 2 h-1 4 3 3 1 3 3 3 3 CO 5 3 1 2 1 1 3 7 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 5 6 1 7 1 1 8 1 4 1 2 1 2 7 4 2 1 3 1 2 3 1 3 2 3 1 3 1 3 2 1 1 bh 3 2 14 2 11 2 6 2 1 2 3 2 2 H-) 4 3 1 3 3 3 3 3 r] 5 3 3 2 2 3 2 7 3 3 2 1 4 •V 6 7 1 7 3 1 3 1 11 1 7 1 1 1 1 3 2 ri 1 1 2 2 Spin 2 3 Chel 4 9 4 10 3 1 4 15 2 2 16 1 3 12 Max 8 43 6 4 5 2 Lab 24 2 24 17 24 Stern 12 Ped 2 2 2 2 2 Ceph.S.... 1 2 Near Epigy.
2 2 4 7 Total... 59 6202 58 1 115 59 4 135 48 13 109 52 6 108 1 I 42 8 51 1911.]
m "o Argiopidse S. Linyphiinae.
S. Tetragnathinae.
Appendage.
Troglohyphantrs ca vent icola Keys.
Liny i>li i<i weyeri Emert.
Tetragnatha grallator Htz.
Epeirti niarmorea Clerk.
9 1 c?
9 1 c?
9 9 Palp.
1 2 3 4 5 6 q 2 2 d 02 CO j 85 i 7 11 d d 1 2 1 d a3 ■n 7.
2 6 2 5 37 q d 1 1 1 d ] 1 CO CO 3 q d 1 1 1 q en CO CO 3 2 9 d d 2 2 3 d CO CO QQ d 2 1 1 d 1 1 V4 1st Leg.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 3 2 3 2 1 1 11 17 3 2 3 2 1 1 9 8 5 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 3 6 1 6 3 3 o 2 3 2 1 3 3 1 10 7 6 3 2 3 3 1 \ 1 2 1 4 2 3 3 1 2d Leg.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 3 2 3 3 1 13 8 1 3 2 2 2 3 1 1 1 10 8 6 7 2 2 3 2 1 1 2 6 1 4 1 1 2 2 3 2 1 2 3 1 3 3 3 3 2 3 2 1 1 2 4 2 3 3 1 1 3d Leg.
1 2 3 4 6 7 3 2 2 2 1 1 9 9 11 6 3 2 2 3 1 1 1 5 4 5 2 2 2 3 2 1 5 3 3 4 2 2 3 2 1 2 3 1 1 2 3 2 3 2 1 1 3 4 2 3 2 1 1 6 bb 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 3 2 3 2 1 1 1 23 21 6 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 10 8 2 3 3 2 3 2 1 1 6 2 2 I 2 2 3 2 1 1 6 2 3 3 2 3 2 1 !
1 1 4 2 3 3 1 1 1 5 a a 1 2 3 2 1 1 4 1 14 Chel 2 4 26 6 12 4 2 2 4 15 6 20 2 3 3 2 ll 13 3 i i 2 1 1 11 4 2 12 2 4 2 22 4 2 5 Max 12 6 Lab 15 Stern .
Ped 31 Ceph.
S... Near Epigy 2 2 Total...
I 50 7 217 47 11 194 48 5 95 48 1 111 58 2 | 36 62 6 81 :392 [May, "6 si CD a i "7, s o £ '2 c73-< si "u 3 tS .
CK si "a o o x3 •3 It: • »J 2 l|| Lycosa.
CD bC a -a a CD 5. p >> a cd <J 9 9 9 I c?
9 9 d 6 GQ !
d .
d CO d d CO d d a 6 j d CO d d <r" « DQ CO U | CO CO o OQ K o en m U CO CO o 03 CO 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3| 3 3 "0.
3 2 2 2 2 2 2 e8 4 5 6 3 1 10 2 1 2 2 11 3 5 3 1 1 1 1 1 4 2 4 3 2 4 3 3 a; 3 2 43 2 2 2' 2 2 J 4 3 1 3 3 3 3 3 CO 5 3 28 3 3 3 3 3 I— 1 6 7 1 16 4 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 3 1 1 2 4 3 3 3 3 3 fcJD 3 2 34 2 2 2 2 2 J 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 T3 5 3 19 3 3 3 2 3 6 1 7 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 7 2 1 2 — 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 2 4 3| 3 3 3 3 M 3 2 22 2 2 2 2 2 -3 4 3 2 3 : 3 3 3 3 T3 5 3 14 3 ; 4 3 2 3 6 1 9 i 1 1 1 1 1 7 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 .
2 4 3 3 3 2 3 fcf) 3 2 30 2 2 2 2 2 -J 4 3 2 3 3 3 3 3 5 3 21 3 3 2 1 1 3 Tt< 6 1 17 1 1 1 1 1 7 7 1 3 I ^; 1 1 3 5 9 21 2 Spin 2 3 1?
4 9 3 1 3 4 Chel ?, ?
23 4 12 i 4!
16 Max 5 8 6 I 3 4 Lab 3 31 3 37 14 19 6 18 Stern 18 Ped 2 3 10 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 Ceph.S... Near Epigy.
2 2 Total... 64 4 375 58 4 68 61 1 1 54 64 1 69 57 2 36 62 55 1911.]
393 8 8s si 13 ~ '??
a. o c >> '-£ SO ffiO!
Lycosa.
>— • 00 o e £ 3 » "5 >> 8 a> ■5 ■s 3 s. c '3 •-a i« s ft ft, ft, < C?
9 9 9 I c?
Range.
6 6 K d 6 no d 6 GO d C 1 v. c EC d c 1 o 02 02 v ■j.
93 02 02 VI 1 a GQ 02 GO CQ 0-1 0-2 0-10 2 3 3 2 2 2 0-3 0-1 0-5 a, 3 2 4 2 2 2 2 1-2 0-1 0-12 4 3 3 3 1 3!
3 0-3 0-1 0-5 5 8 0-5 0-1 0-8 6 5 6 0-0 1 0-0 0-37 1 1 1 2 0-1 0-1 0-10 2 3 3 3 2 3 1-4 0-0 0-8 3 2 2 2 2 2 1-2 0-0 0-43 h1 4 2 3 3 3 3 2-3 0-0 0-9 5 3 2 1 3 2 1 2 0-4 0-2 0-?8 ^ 6 1 1 1 1 1 1-2 0-1 0-16 7 5 3 j 0-1 0-0 0-11 1 1 1 2 0-1 0-1 0-7 2 3 3 3 3 2 2-4 0-0 0-6 0-34 0) 3 2 2 2 2 2 1-2 0-0 >-) 4 3 3 3 3 3 2-3 0-0 0-4 -3 5 3 3 3 1 1 1 2 1-4 0-2 0-19 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1-2 0-2 0-10 7 1 5 1 0-1 0-0 0-8 1 1 1 4 1 4 0-1 0-1 0-9 2 3 3 3 3 2 1-4 0-0 0-4 3 2 2 2 2 2 1-2 0-1 0-?,?, J 4 3 3 3 3 3 2-3 0-0 0-6 5 2 • 1 2 3 1 2 1 2 1-4 0-2 0-14 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 1-2 0-0 0-11 7 1 1 0-1 0-0 0-8 1 1 1 9 2 0-1 0-1 0-9 2 3 2 3 3 3 1-4 0-0 0-91 be o 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 0-2 0-0 0-30 -^ 4 3 3 3 3 3 2-3 0-0 0-8 -*3 5 3 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 2 1-4 0-2 0-?1 Th 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 1-2 0-1 0-17 7 3 1 3 0-1 0-0 0-7 1 3 ] 3 6 0-1 0-1 0-21 _d 2 0-0 0-11 X 3 0-1 0-0 0-38 Chel 4 15 4 7 4 2 4 6 4 3 0-4 0-4 0-?6 Max 1 3 4 4 4 0-0 0-0 0-?,?, Lab 2 3 50-0 0-0 0-15 0-55 Stern 20 28 19 20 | 18 0-0 -0 Ped 2 2 2 2 0-2 0-0 0-?0 Ceph.S.... 4 1 2 5 3 0-0 0-0 0-9 Near Bpigy. '
2 2 2 , jO-2 0-2 0-12 Total.... 63 1 64 57 2 43 6!
3 42 51 7 66 50 9 64 26 The following are those variations which could not be placed in the table.
(1) Organ No.
1 on the coxa of the legs in Moggridgea and a few others have six or seven slits (fig.
35).
(2) On the trochanter of the palps in one-half the cases where two or three organs are present at least one is always and sometimes two are diffused.
(3) Concerning the same joint of the first leg, there are 18 species with one diffused organ, 10 species with two diffused organs; for the second leg 23 species each with one diffused organ, 7 species each with two such organs; for the third leg one diffused structure in each of 17 species and 5 species each with two such organs; for the fourth legin each of 14 species one such organ, while each of 9 species has two diffused organs.
On the legs a diffused organ never occurs unless at least two organs are present, and two diffused organs are never seen unless at least three in all are observed.
(4) In all species with a low total number of organs, No.
5 and 6 on the femur never have many more than three slits.
(5) The paired organs No.
7 and 8 are always present, while in six species No.
9 is absent on the first and third legs; it is missing, however, in only three species on the second and fourth legs.
In Hermacha this organ on each leg is slightly diffused.
No.
7 and 8 in Caponia and Palpimanus are out of their ordinal}' position.
(6) On the fifth joint of the palp of the first five named species, there is a transverse organ (fig.
40) in the same position as No.
13 on the metatarsus of the legs.
In the first four species three or four longitudinal organs occur besides this transverse organ.
All of these organs are proportionately large as represented by those of Moggridgea (figs.
25, 40, 48, 56).
The largest of these (fig.
56) has thirty slits, the greatest number found in any organ of any species.
Fig.
12 shows the large organ on the dorsal side of the tibia of Uroctea.
The other three on this joint are very small.
(7) On the sixth joint of the palps the large transverse slits called c and d were observed in only a few of the species.
(8) On the legs the majority of the species have at least one of the two large slits called a and l>.
In several cases one of these slits becomes a simple organ and in a few cases as in Evagi-us or Atypus one has changed into a compound organ, while the other one remains a simple organ.
Hence, on the sixth joint in the first leg of Atypus and on the fourth leg of Evagru$ there are two compound and one simple organ.
As usual one of the former is transverse and the other two are longitudinal.
(9) Among the 39 species only Hypochilus has organs on the tarsi.
These are small transverse organs located at the extreme distal end always on the anterior side (fig.
49).
In almost every species there is at least one, but in most cases two transverse single slits like c and d. Besides these in many species there are several other smaller transverse slits.
These usually lie near the larger ones but not so near the distal end.
(10) Fig.
29 shows three slits and three hairs found on the first joint of the spinnerets of Evagrus.
Organs on the spinnerets occur in only five species.
In Hytiotes there is a small transverse compound organ at the base of the spinnerets; at the same place in the male of Troglohyphantes and Epeira this organ is transverse and simple (fig.
19).
On the ventral extreme distal end of the first joint of Mimetus there is a transverse organ of nine slits; at the same location on the foremost spinneret of Tama there is a large transverse organ with eleven slits (fig.
33).
(11) For the chelicera, fig.
28 shows two of the four simple organs found in Dictyna.
Here the border is entirely absent.
In Hyptiotes (fig.
20) the border surrounds all the slits of each organ.
Fig.
11 shows the very large organ in Moggridgea.
(12) Fig.
21 represents two of the thirteen slits on the labium of Ariadna.
(13) Whenever the number of slits on the sternum is approximately 24, they are arranged in groups of threes.
In such cases the proximal end of each coxa faces one of these eight groups.
Whenever the number is much smaller than 24, they are not arranged in groups, but are scattered irregularly.
Whenever the number is much more than 24, then they are grouped as in Th.
tepidariorum.
(14) Fig.
36 shows two of the twenty very small slits on the pedicle of Moggridgea.
(15) When the minute slits can be detected on the cephalothoracic shield they occur usually at either side or directly in front of the pedicle.
Fig.
46 shows three taken from Ariadna.
(16) Near the epigynum we have the following: Fig.
22 shows two of the twelve scattered slits in the.
female of Pholcus.
These twelve are found on both sides of the epigynum a little above the ones marked j in Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
54 shows a group of these in Moggridgea.
They are drawn much too close together.
Fig.
43 represents the two diffused organs in front of the epigynum of Calculus, while fig.
47 shows one of the two organs in front of the epigynum of Dysdera.
In only a few cases have the two.
pairs of large slits been found which lie between the epigynum and spinnerets as shown in Th.
tepidariorum.
(c) Individual and Sexual Variations.
For a study of the individual variation, I have used the fourth pair of legs of ten males and ten females of Th.
tepidariorum, thus makingforty legs in all.
Organ No.
1 in the females occurs nine times to only six in the males on the right side: on the left side ten times in the females to nine times in the males.
( )rgan No.
3 of the females on both sides is much oftener diffused than is that of the males.
The only other striking difference is the greater number of isolated slits on both legs of the females.
In two cases in the males a simnle organ takes the place of a compound one, and in the legs on either side in both sexes an organ is occasionally absent.
In all other cases in which I have carefully examined more than one specimen of the same species, I have not found any individual variations of more importance than the above.
Hence we see that the organs are pretty constant on both sides of the body in both sexes, while the number of single slits varies considerably both individually and sexually.
By carefully comparing the males and females of the same species we see that there are no variations except what can be considered as Individual variations.
The only difference worth mentioning is the great number of single slits on the last joint of the palps in the males (fig.
9), while none or only a few are found at the same place in the females.
By referring to the totals in the table one sees that the males of Th.
tepidariorum and Phidippus have one compound ■organ less than the females ; the male of Pkolcus two less ; the male of Troglohyphantes three less; an equal number in both sexes of Linyphia; the male of Lgcosa lepida one more, and the male of Agalena three more organs than the female.
■(d) Conclusions.
Now, to interpret the meaning of the totals in the table, it is evident that relationships play no part at all, for there is a great range of variation within a genus or family.
Therefore these organs are not useful for taxonomy.
As already stated individual and sexual variations are very slight.
Specific variations are also very slight as seen in the two Lycosas, and in the three species of Theridium.
Generic differences are not very great when the various genera have a similar habitat, as in Moggridgea, Hermacha, and Evagrus; a less variation between Tetragnatha and Epiera, but the same number of organs in Dysdera and Ariadna; however when the habitat is dark and damp the number of compound organs is usually much less as shown in the linyphiid cave forms and in a linyphiid littoral form, Grammonota.
The most important variation in the morphology of the lyriform organs can certainly be correlated with the method of capturing food.
In the manner of securing food, spiders are divided into three classes as follows: (1) The hunters are those which wander about in search of food and when sufficiently close they jump and seize the prey.
They use no snares whatever in capturing food.
(2) The snarers catch their food with snares and never hunt for it.
(3) The tube-dwellers run to the entrance of their tubes in order to catch the prey.
These three classes in the table (pages 386-393) are referred to as H, S, and T. The hunters without exception have more compound organs than either the snarers or tube-dwellers.
The average number of compound and simple organs and single slits for the hunters is 61-3-100; for the epigaean snarers 58-4-99, and for the littoral and cavernicolus snarers 51-6-119; but for snarers of all kinds 56-4-105; for the tubedwellers 49-5-144.
Hence the number of single slits in both hunters and snarers is the same while the number of organs varies considerably.
The cave forms have a few more single slits than either the hunters or epigaean snarers, but their number of organs is much reduced.
The tube-dwellers have the greatest number of single slits, but the fewest organs of all.
The range for the hunters is 69-51 c. o., 7-0 s. o., 375-34 s. s. ; for the epigaean snarers 66-49 c. o., 11-0 s. o., 241-18 s. s. ; for the other snarers 59-42 c. o., 13-1 s. o., 217-51 s. s., but for both kinds of snarers 66-42 c. o., 13-0 s. o., 241-18 s. s. and for the tube-dwellers 50-48 c. o., 6-3 s. o., 237-60 s. s. The difference between the maximum and minimum is practically the same between the hunters, epigaean and cavernicolus snarers but when all the snarers are compared with the hunters, the former vary much among themselves.
The reason why there is such a slight range among the tubedwellers is perhaps because Caponia, Ariadna and Dysdera are the only forms included here.
2 All true cave spiders are snarers and it is manifest that the more they have become adapted to a subterranean life, the more their lyriform organs have degenerated.
Thus to arrange them according to the degree of such an adaptability, we have the following series with regard to the number of compound organs: Th.
kentuckyense with 59, Th.
porter i 58, Erigone 52, Troglohyphantes 50, Linyphia 48. and Phanetta 42, of which series there is a gradation from the epigaean Th.
tepidariorum with 60 compound organs which nests in walls and outhouses to Phanetta which is able to adapt itself to any place in a 2 Calculus and Ammoxenus have not been included in the above comparison because I have been unable to find any literature concerning their habitats.
Calculus bicolor, from South Africa, is a new species described by Purcell, and its habits have not been described.
Simon (1892) described for the first time and created a new family for Ammoxenus from South Africa, but all he says about the habitat is — "lis se trouvent a terre, dans les endroits decouverts, et ils courent au soleil avec une telle rapidite qu'il est difficile de s'en saisir."
cave where the three following necessary requirements are present : (1) Total darkness, (2) an even temperature and (3) a saturated atmosphere.
In Banta's (1907) cave work and my recent paper (1911) on some cave arachnids, their habitat is briefly discussed.
The first three species may be found from twilight localities where food is very abundant and where there is a considerable range in the annual temperature and a daily range in the humidity to places in total darkness where insects are rather scarce, and where there is only a slight range in the temperature and humidity.
These first three are much larger in size, all the eyes are present and they are much darker in color than are the last three.
The fourth and fifth species are never found in the twilight, but always where the three above necessary requirements occur, although most abundantly where food is comparatively plentiful.
The average color is rather light and the eyes are partially or totally absent.
Phanetta may be found in the same localities as the above two species, but furthermore it is able to live in any part of a cave if the three necessary requisites are present regardless of the distance from the entrance or the paucity of the insect food.
< )f the six species it is the smallest, lightest in color and perhaps has the greatest percentage of totally blind individuals, although in twenty-seven specimens Banta did not find any totally devoid of eyes.
Since Grammonota lives under wet eel grass in the dark, its small number of organs probably can be explained in a similar way.
Now, since hunting spiders have the greatest number of lyriform organs, and as these usually contain more slits than those of the snarers or tube-dwellers, we must conclude that the method of capturing food has brought about these changes in the number of organs.
3.
Discussion.
(a) Disposition.
Bertkau (1878) was the first to notice some isolated slits grouped together and located at the distal end of the segments in Arane:r. Dahl (1883) first discovered and described the transverse organ No.
13 on the metatarsus.
Schimkewitsch (1884) was the first to observe the isolated slits on the sternum but did not recognize them as lyriform organs.
The next year (1885) the same author found eleven organs on the legs and four on the palps of Epeira diademata, while 1 have obs?rved fourteen on the legs and six on the palps of Epeira marmorea.
Wagner (1888) first saw the two organs on the pedicle and the single slits near the spinnerets, but he did not recognize them as lyriform organs.
Gaubert (1890) described the disposition of the lyriform organs and said that these structures were as characteristic for arachnids as are the pectines for scorpions.
He gave them the appellation of "lyriform organs."
In (1892) Gaubert worked on several species and found the organs as follows: one on the coxa of the legs and palps ; three on the trochanter; two on the femur ; three on the patella; three on the tibia; one on the metatarsus; no organs but occasionally isolated slits on the tarsus.
He said that the four pairs of legs have similar organs and the first four segments of the palps have organs located like those of the legs.
Therefore he was the first to see organ No.
1 on the coxa, and he has seen all the organs present on these appendages, but he failed to observe them elsewhere.
Hansen (1893) selected Epeira diademata Clerk d\ the same species that Gaubert used, and searched for organs and slits which were overlooked by the latter observer.
Besides finding the thirteen organs on each leg, some isolated slits, the organs on the palps, chelicera and the slits on the sternum as pointed out by Gaubert, Hansen found many isolated slits of various sizes irregularly distributed on the palps, legs, chelicera, maxillae, labium, near the epigynum, on the spinnerets, and on the cephalothoracic shield in much the same manner that I have described.
Thus he was the first to recognize the two organs on the pedicle as lyriform organs and pointed out for the first time the isolated slits near the epigynum, on the spinnerets, labium and cephalothoracic shield.
My more comprehensive study of these structures has enabled me to find all those organs pointed out by my predecessors, besides those compound organs occasionally on the fifth joint of the palp, on the tarsus of the legs and compound and simple organs on the spinnerets and in front of the epigynum.
(b) Structure.
Bertkau (1878, 1885) described an enlargement at the middle of the slit covered by a fine membrane and connected with a nerve fibre.
Dahl described a vessel under the transverse slits of organ No.
13.
Schimkewitsch says a lyriform organ has a chitinous coat which may be incomplete and has edges which separate the parallel slits.
He describes the nerve fibres passing to the organ and their connection with the ganglia (sense cells), but he failed to see the union of the latter with the nerve "pedieux."
Wagner states that these organs present at the exterior a very thin membrane which afterwards covers the dilatations which are located at the middle of the slit.
Gaubert has described the structure of an organ very nearly as I have, but since his drawing is much too small and fails to give most of the details one cannot gain from it the proper conception of such a structure.
He shows only six sense cells, all of which are at the base of the hypodermis just beneath the organ.
Also he connects the nerve fibres with the dilatations, but he fails to show how the other end of the sense cells connects with the nerve of the leg.
(c) Disposition in other Orders of Arachnids.
In regard to the lyriform organs of other orders of arachnids which have been studied by Gaubert and Hansen, a brief summary is necessary in order to understand the development of these structures throughout the class of Arachnida.
Gaubert failed to find any organs in the Scorpions and Solifugids, and he saw only a small portion of the organs present in the Pedipalps, Pseudoscorpions and Phalangitis.
Hansen who examined more specimens and with greater care, found the following in two species of different genera of the scorpions: several isolated slits on the trochanter and femur of the legs and palps ; numerous slits on the patella, tibia, and metatarsus of the legs.
All of these vary much in size and are irregularly scattered.
Almost all of these slits are parallel with the axis of the leg and the dilatation is always at the proximal end.
In short, Hansen has found the lyriform organs in one family, Thelyphonidae, of the Pedipalps as follows: the legs and palps are abundantly supplied with scattered slits and the only organ which occurs is on the metatarsus and it is highly developed.
The chelicera have numerous slits; the cephalothoracic shield and sternum only a few.
while the dorsal and ventral sides of the abdomen have many.
In another family, Phrynidae, the legs besides having many slits also have two organs on each trochanter.
There are many slits oh the chelicera, dorsal and ventral sides of the abdomen and only a few on the cephalothoracic shield.
According to Hansen and Sorensen (1904) lyriform organs are completely wanting in the order Palpigradi.
Among the Solifugids Hansen has found only five scattered slits on the last and fifteen on the first joint of the chelicera.
These are very different in size and are irregularly scattered.
He says: "Undoubtedly we have here lyriform organs in a somewhat modified shape."
For the Pseudoscorpions Hansen states that only a few isolated slits are found on most of the joints in the legs and palps, while an organ composed of five slits is found on the second joint of each species.
Chelicera and maxilla?
with only a few, both ventral and dorsal sides of the abdomen and dorsal side of the cephalothorax with many small scattered slits.
Hansen and Sorensen stated that it was impossible to find lyriform organs in the order Ricinulei.
Concerning the Phalangids Hansen says that numerous isolated slits of unequal lengths occur on the first three joints of the legs, third joint of the palps, chelicera, ventral side of the abdomen, but only a few on the cephalothorax and dorsal side of abdomen.
Gaubert was unable to find any lyriform organs in the order of Acarina.
Hansen thought that he found some scattered, very tiny slits on the shield and a most remarkable transverse slit on the legs of one species.
Thus he thinks that they appear as single slits in this family.
To briefly summarize the discussions about the disposition of thelyriform organs in all the orders of arachnids, we see that scorpions possess many irregularly scattered slits of various sizes on the legs and palps, but no compound organs.
For the family.
Thelyphonicke, of the pedipalps there are many scattered slits on all the appendages, a few on both sides of the cephalothorax, while many are scattered all over the abdomen.
In this family there is only one compound organ on each leg, while in the family, Phrynidae, there are two compound organs on each leg besides the many slits.
For the solifugids the only signs of lyriform organs are a few scattered slits on the chelicera.
The pseudoscorpions have only one organ of five slits on each leg and scattered slits occur everywhere.
The phalangids have only numerous slits scattered everywhere; the acarinids have nothing more than a few scattered slits, and no slits have ever been found in the Palpigradi and Ricinulei.
(//) Phytogeny.
Thus it is clear that the development of the lyriform organs in all the orders except Aranea 1 is in a very primitive state.
In the degree of development perhaps the pedipalps stand next to the araneads for some of them have two compound organs on each leg, while Palpigradi and Ricinulei have these structures totally absent.
It seems probable that at one time all kinds of lyriform organs were nothing more than minute slits irregularly scattered over all parts of the entire body as seen in some of the lower orders.
Then when organs, made their appearance the tiny slits on the dorsal side of the body disappeared as illustrated in the pedipalps.
This is further exemplified with the araneads in which one never finds isolated slits on the dorsal side of the abdomen and none on the dorsal side of the cephalothorax except a few that still persist on the cephalothoracic shield.
In some species among the araneads the single slits seem to be as numerous as ever, but in all cases they have become more or less regularly distributed.
Where the single slits are as numerous as ever, then the compound and simple organs must be entirely new formations.
Among the lower orders the range* is from a total absence of either isolated slits or organs for the entire animal to many single slits plus two compound organs for each leg.
Among the aranea* the range is from 41 c. o., 12 s. o., 82 s. s. to 69 c. o., 2 s. o., 64 s. s. The total number of slits in all these organs plus the scattered ones of the latter aranead is probably twice that of the former.
According to this the development of the lyriform organs in the latter is twice that of the former, while in the lower orders this ratio is doubled many times.
II.
PHYSIOLOGY.
4Experiments.
(a) Olfactory Sense.
^ Triangular experimental cases were constructed by using three pieces of glass, two of which were 10 cm.
wide by 13 cm.
long and the other 6 cm.
wide by 10 cm.
long.
Cheese cloth served as a bottom.
The glass and cheese cloth were held together with adhesive tape.
A top of cardboard was laid over each case to prevent the escape of the specimen.
Cases of the same dimensions except height were used for the attiids.
These were only one centimetre high with a glass top.
The extreme ends of the experimental cases rested on two supports which were placed on sawdust, the latter being used to break the jar caused by heavy walking.
A screen was placed in front of the cases to prevent the spiders from seeing the observer.
( )n account of their size, abundance, and because their webs did not interfere with the experiments Lycosa lepida, L. scutulata, and Phidippus purpuratus were employed.
However in one test Pardosa lapidicina Emert.
was used.
In all cases the spiders were brought immediately fresh from the fields, then and each day afterwards they were fed and watered.
They were experimented with in series of fourteen in which each specimen was tested each day with five or six different odors for four or five days.
The first experiments were made with the following five oils; clove, thyme, wintergreen, peppermint and bergamot, each of which was kept securely in a small vial.
The spiders were left undisturbed in the cases over night.
The next morning if they were perfectly quiet a vial of oil was placed directly beneath and within one centimetre of each individual.
Time was counted in seconds.
An intermission of forty-five minutes elapsed between any two tests of various odors.
The following are the average results of the tests for four or five days with the above five oils.
Clove.
— Most specimens moved away slowly; a few moved away quickly; some moved only slightly; several worked palps, chelicera and legs; one rubbed palps and two threw up front legs quickly.
Time ranged from 3 to 90 sec.
with an average of 27 sec.
for L. lepida; for Phidippus from 3 to 32 sec.
with an average of 13 sec.
Forty-one specimens were used.
Thyme.
— Almost one-half moved away slowly; the same number away quickly: the remainder either raised up quickly, threw up front legs, worked palps and chelicera or rubbed their legs together.
Time for L. lepida 2 to 95 sec.
with an average of 10 sec.
; for Phidippus 2 to 15 sec.
with an average of 4 sec.
Forty-two specimens were used.
Wintergreen.
— The majority moved away slowly; several away quickly: several arose quickly; a few worked palps, chelicera and legs ; one lay down over the odor, and one rubbed legs together.
Time for L. lepida 2 to 89 sec.
with an average of 11 sec; for Phidippus 3 to 15 sec.
with an average of 7 sec.
Forty-eight specimens were employed.
Peppermint.
— All either moved away quickly or arose quickly and then moved away slowly; some of these after moving away worked palps, chelicera and legs: three threw up front legs; one lifted feet high; one rubbed legs and chelicera together.
Time for L. lepida 2 to 13 sec.
with an average of 6 sec.
; for Phidippus 2 to 7 sec.
with an average of 3 sec.
Forty-eight individuals were used.
Bergamot.
— The majority moved away slowly; the remainder either raised up quickly or moved away quickly; only a few worked palps, chelicera and legs.
Time for L. lepida 3 to 45 sec.
with an average of 14 sec.
; for Phidippus 3 to 35 sec.
with an average of 6 sec.
Forty-one specimens were employed.
The total average of the results for the five oils is 13 seconds for L. lepida and for Phidippus it is 7 seconds.
Xow, since it may be contended that the results obtained by using the above oils are due to an irritation of the skin rather than due to an olfactory sense, I also used the following which cannot be classed as irritants: Buttercup (Ranunculus sp.).
— Both the fresh and decayed flowers were employed, and there was practically no difference either in time or reactions.
The general result was to move away slowly; sometimes a few worked palps and chelicera and one lay down over the odor.
In this test only six specimens of Pardosa were used with the fresh flowers.
Time 23 to 56 sec.
with an average of 32 sec.
The same number of specimens of L. lepida were employed with the decayed flowers.
Time 3 to 120 sec.
with an average of 36 sec.
In this as in other cases 120 seconds was the limit of time without result.
Decayed Snail (Littorina littorea).
— Most moved away slowly; only a few away quickly and only a few worked palps, chelicera and legs; one threw up front legs and one rubbed legs together.
Time for L. lepida 7 to 120 sec.
with an average of 61 sec.
; for Phidippus 5 to 120 sec.
with an average of 68 sec.
Thirty-four specimens were used.
Squash Bug (Anasa tristis).
— One-half moved away slowly, the other half either arose quickly and moved away slowly, or moved away quickly when the squash bug was held in the fingers beneath the spider; a few after moving away worked legs and palps; one lay down over the odor and one followed the odor when the bug was moved beneath the case.
Squash bugs which were caused to exhaust all their secretion and had become odorless were placed in the cases with the spiders, in almost every case the spider within a few minutes seized and ate the bugs.
When squash bugs with a strong odor were placed in the cases the spiders never came within reaching distance of them and usually remained away from the bugs and when the latter moved toward the spiders, the araneads gave them the right of way.
Time for L. lepida 3 to 11 sec.
with an average of 7 sec.
; for L. scutulata 3 to 25 sec.
with an average of 13 sec; for Phidippus 3 to 6 sec.
with an average of 4 sec.
Twenty-one specimens were employed.
Phalangids.
Most moved away slowly; the others moved away quickly, or moved only slightly; one threw up front legs and two turned around.
The phalangids were held in the fingers beneath the cases.
Only occasionally when phalangids were put into the cases did the araneads eat them.
Time for L. lepida 3 to 25 sec.
with an average of 8 sec.
; for L. scutulata 5 to 55 sec.
with an average of 19 sec.
Thirteen individuals were used.
Thus the general average in time for the five oils was ten seconds, while for the four odors found in nature the time was thirty seconds.
Hence, it is evident that spiders respond to other odors besides those from irritating oils, and that they have a true olfactory sense.
To experiment with araneads collected miscellaneously without regard to sex, age, time of moulting, whether parasitised or not, and conditions of the weather, one obtains all kinds of variations and complexities.
Not enough males were used to ascertain positively their •degree of sensitiveness to odors, but they seemed to respond slightly quicker than do the females.
Perhaps this is due not to the higher development of their olfactory organs, but to their greater activity.
Probably the same reason is sufficient to explain the quicker response to odors of Phidippus than of the Lycosas.
Only a few experiments were conducted with spiderlings.
In these few cases their actions were not essentially different from those of the adults.
Females about ready to oviposite were generally very slow to respond and in a few •cases were almost negative to odors.
A few hours before and after moulting specimens were entirely negative to odors.
On the first day a female of Trochosa frondicola (Emert.)
responded rather slowly; on the fifth day she was almost negative; on the sixth day a large insect parasite was removed from her abdomen.
After this she lived two months but never again responded readily to odors.
Other individuals of her kind also responded very slowly.
Ten individuals •of Ariadna bicolor likewise responded very slowly; when not in their tubes their average time was 63 seconds for the five oils, and when in their tubes they rarely responded to any kind of odors.
A female •of Dysdera interrita which did not spin any kind of a nest responded .still more slowly; the average time for the five oils was 70 seconds.
Generally on damp or rainy days all specimens responded very slowly and since no definite conclusions could be derived by including such data, all results on these days have been eliminated.
If the individuals were normal in every way they may be educated to respond to odors more quickly each successive day.
In twenty-three specimens of L. lepida the time for the first day was 14 seconds, for the second day 12 seconds, thus making an increase of fourteen per cent.
(b) Hearing.
In order to determine whether spiders show any response to sounds which a person may hear any day in the same environs in which arachnids live, I placed five male crickets, two small and one large katydid beneath the experimental cases.
The pitch of all the cricket chirps were very similar, but the notes of the small katydids were rather high, while those of the large katydid were pretty low.
For over a week's time I watched the spiders every day very carefully, but not once did I ever notice a single spider show the least response.
I observed very closely the first time the insects were brought into the laboratory, and in order to test them repeatedly the music makers were removed from the room, then were brought back after a short time, but in every case the result was a negative one.
Also it was noticed that there was no response whatever whether the araneads were quiet, or moving when the chirping or singing began.
If they were moving when the music began they did not cease, but continued to move as if nothing were happening.
Eighteen individuals of Lycosa and Phidippus were employed.
Therefore if spiders have any auditory sense why do they not respond to the very sounds which a human being can hear at all times immediately in their neighborhood?
If quiescence can be considered as a sign of hearing why did not these spiders stop moving when the crickets began to chirp or when the katydids began to sing?
Furthermore large spiders can easily catch crickets and small katydids, but as yet there are no observations which show that the sense of hearing aids araneads in capturing their prey.
One clay I saw a L. scutulata and a small katydid on the same weed.
The insect sang continuously, I watched the spider carefully for several minutes, however it did not show the least sign of hearing the katydid as far as I could observe.
(c) Function of the Lyrifonn Organs.
In order to ascertain whether the olfactory organs are localized in the palps or in the maxillre, the former were first removed from eleven specimens of Phidippus.
The operation was performed by seizing the coxa of the palps with a small pair of forceps, then by giving a quick jerk the appendage was detached, thus leaving only a very small opening through which a minute drop of blood emerged.
To cut the appendages off caused the specimens to lose too much blood which in many cases was fatal.
The maxilla 1 of the same eleven were removed in the same way the second day after the removal of the palps.
These spielers were the only ones found which were able to endure a double operation of this kind, but after such an operation they did not hesitate to catch and eat flies as usual.
The following table gives the results of the average time in seconds for the five oils before removal of palps, after removal of palps and after removal of palps and maxillsp both.
Before removal After removal After removal of No.
of of palps of palps palps and maxillae specimen.
(in seconds).
(in seconds).
(in seconds).
77 3 4 4 75 7 s 7 97 5 5 4 98 3 5 14 99 4 5 6 106 4 4 4 IDS 7 7 7 123 7 7 7.
129 3 3 4 130 6 4 4 131 4 5 5 Average *.5.0 5.2 6.0 Thus it is seen that before any operation the average time is five seconds, after removal of palps 5.2 seconds, with palps and maxillae both removed it is 6 seconds.
Therefore after considering the 14 per cent, increase of response on the second day, it is evident that the palps have but little to do with the olfactory sense.
Moreover the maxillae seem to play a slightly more important role but this may probably be due to the effect of the operation, because the spiders were slightly less active after the removal of the maxilla 1 .
Judging from the structure of the lyriform organs, we must conclude that they have some kind of a sensory function.
Sight, touch, taste and hearing may be eliminated at once for the following reasons.
The eyes serve for the sense of sight.
Spiders are no more tactile near or directly on these organs than elsewhere.
The taste organs would have to be associated with the mouth.
Since it is evident that spiders cannot hear, then these organs could not have an auditory function.
Now, there are left for consideration the humidity, olfactory and temperature senses.
No experiments were performed to determine the humidity sense, but in my opinion spiders do not have such a sense.
In order to ascertain whether the lyriform organs have an olfactory sense fifteen large adult Lycosa lepida, fresh from the fields and all normal in every way, were selected for the varnishing operations.
Here as in other cases each spider was fed and watered each day.
These fifteen Lycosas were tested carefully with the five oils to see if they had the correct olfactory perception.
Late in the afternoon all the lyriform organs (single slits not included) on the legs, palps, chelicera, mouth parts and sternum were carefully varnished with yellow commercial vaseline by placing a tiny daub of this substance on each organ.
Great precaution was taken not to use too much vaseline and not to get any of it on the lung-books.
Immediately after being varnished the spiders began to clean themselves and removed practically all the vaseline from the chelicera, mouth parts and tarsi of the legs and palps.
After one day's time the remaining vaseline did not spread very much, but after four or five days it formed a thin coating over all the legs, cephalothorax and sometimes over the abdomen.
When the vaseline covered the lung-books and trachea?
the spiders died in a short time.
Most of these araneads, however, lived at least four or five days after such an operation, while some lived fifteen to twenty days, and a few survived almost the entire summer.
In these latter the vaseline had all evaporated and the arachnids again responded normally to odors.
After the operation the spiders took water and food in the normal way and then they were left undisturbed during the night.
The next morning they were tested again with the five oils.
The following table gives the average in seconds ' for the five oils before and after being varnished.
No.
of Before varnishing Next morning after var■specimen.
(in seconds).
nishing (in seconds).
9 37 4 57 cT46 3 54 9 51 9 77 9 52 6 51 9 81 5 78 C?
1 75 3 82 9 81 11 64 9 90 » 4 32 9 93 4 39 9 94 8 97 9 96 6 33 9 116 8 50 '9H7 15 74 9 H8 8 82 9 H9 6 41 Average 7.0 61.0 Hence, the above table shows that the average for all the spiders before varnishing was 7 seconds and after the operation 61 seconds, thus increasing the time nine times.
The thin coating of vaseline on the lyriform organs affected No.
117 the least.
It responded only five times slower.
No.
75 was affected the most.
Its time was increased twenty-seven times.
Some of these specimens were tested the second, third and ninth day after being varnished.
The result was a gradual decrease in time.
At the fourteenth day the varnished spiders had almost returned to their normal state for detecting odors.
Now, since this yellow vaseline itself has a slight odor, three sets of controls were used to determine whether the vaseline odor interfered with the response to other odors.
First, vaseline in little paper boxes was suspended in the cases and left over night.
The cases were made as near air-tight as possible, so that the next morning the air inside the cases was thoroughly permeated with the vaseline odor.
Tests with the oils were now prosecuted with the vaseline still suspended.
Second, a lump of vaseline was placed on the floor of the cases.
The spiders paid no attention to and ran over it as if it were a pebble.
Third, a daub of vaseline was placed on the dorsal surface of the cephalothorax and abdomen where it could not interfere with any of the lyriform organs, and where the araneads could not rub it off.
Thus it was ascertained that the vaseline odor did not interfere with the response to other odors, because the time in seconds for each test was exactly the same after as before using the control.
In view of the above facts we are safe in assuming that the lyriform organs function in some measure as olfactory sense organs.
(1) The Temperature Sense.
— As Gaubert (1892) came to the conclusion that the lyriform organs are an apparatus to determine temperature and perhaps other general senses, a set of experiments was performed in order to test his statement.
A temperature case was constructed by making a glass case 40 cm.
long, 5 cm.
wide and 10 cm.
high with a cheese cloth bottom.
At one end placed at right angles was suspended a tin box 20 cm.
long, 10 cm.
wide by 3 cm.
high, so that only 5 centimeters of one end of this box were under the glass case.
At the other extreme end of the tin box was placed a small alcohol lamp to heat the water in this box.
A piece of glass served as a cover for the box, the top of which was just one centimeter beneath the bottom of the temperature case.
One thermometer was laid horizontally on the floor of the temperature case with the bulb over the water.
A second thermometer was placed vertically in the other end of the temperature case as a control.
Its reading always coincided with that of the normal temperature of the room.
Both thermometers had previously been tested.
Ten specimens of Lycosa lepida, one at a time, were left in the temperature case for several hours until they came to perfect rest over the water in the tin box and near the bulb of the thermometer.
Now the water was gradually and gently heated.
Before varnishing the lyriform organs the spiders moved away from the heated region when the temperature on an average was raised 11.2° C. After varnishing the same specimens moved away when the temperature on an average was raised 12.75° C. Since more specimens of Lycosa lepida could not be found, ten L. scutulata, a very similar form, were used in the same way.
Before being varnished they moved away from the heated end when the temperature on an average was raised 15.5° C; after being varnished on an average of 14.2° C. In each test the time was approximately 15 minutes and each specimen was tested with odors after being varnished to see if the varnishing had been well done.
Thus before being varnished twenty specimens of Lycosa left the heated end of the temperature case when the temperature was raised 13.3° C. and after being varnished they left that end when the temperature was raised 13.4° C. It hardly seems probable, therefore, that the lyriform organs are an apparatus to determine temperature as Gaubert thought.
27 In all the experiments of various kinds 173 individuals have been used.
In conclusion the evidence favors the view that the lyriform organs function only as olfactory organs.
5.
Discussion.
(a) Function of the Lyriform Organs.
Bertkau (1878) supposed that they have an auditory sense.
Dahl (1883) thought that organ No.
13 on the metatarsus was an apparatus to help in the spinning ; since the same organ is found in other members of the arachnid group which do not spin, this hypothesis is no longer admissible.
Vogt and Yung (1894) suggest that these organs have a respiratory function.
They made this statement based upon a supposed vessel placed below the organ as described by Dahl.
Since this vessel never existed their suggestion can have no force.
Schimkewitsch (1885) attributes an auditory role to them, and thinks that they play the same part as do the "chordotonales" of Graber which are found in adult insects and their larvse.
This function is not yet sufficiently demonstrated in insects.
Wagner has the same opinion as Bertkau and Schimkewitsch, but since none of these preceding observers have performed any experiments to prove their views we need not further consider their hypotheses.
Gaubert concludes that the lyriform organs are an apparatus for perceiving heat and probably the sense of humidity and senses in general.
He varnished (but does not say with what kind of varnish) the lyriform organs of several Lycosas carefully so that no more of the surface was covered than necessary and so that the varnish did not interfere with the articulations.
These specimens and several which had not been varnished were placed in a large glass vessel.
In one end of this vessel he placed a shelter or protection and, when the spiders had come to rest, the other end of the vessel was lowered into hot water.
He says: "Quand la temperature commence a s'elever les Araignees n'ayant subi aucune preparation abandonment leur retraite et se dirigent vers 1' autre partie du bocal, celles qui ont les organes lyriformes vernis ne cherchent a fuir qu' on moment apres, lorsque la temperature est plus elevee."
(b) Olfactory Experiments.
Robineau-Desvoidy (1842), according to Packard (1887), said that the olfactory sense of spiders is very well developed and localized in the mandibles.
Dahl (1884) found a very peculiar sense organ in the maxillae of spiders.
He called it an olfactory organ because he failed to find any olfactory structure near the breathing apparatus and because its location is not suitable for any other function.
He performed no experiments to determine its office.
According to my experiments it has probably not the slightest olfactory sense.
He experimented on various species with turpentine and clove oils, but was not able to ascertain whether they have the power to distinguish differences in various oils.
Each oil repelled the specimens in a like manner.
Dahl (1SS5) states that Bertkau does not agree with him in regard to the histology of his so-called olfactory organ.
The Peckhams (1887) experimented on various species with strong smelling oils and perfumes.
Three species, Epeira hortoum, Dolomedes tenebrosus and Herpyllus ecclesiasticus did not respond to the test.
Sometimes the legs were rubbed between the palps and falces.
Various other movements also were exhibited similar to those I have described.
Among spiders of the same species there was a great degree of difference in the sensitiveness to various odors.
McCook (1890) concludes from experiments and observations that spiders have little sense of smell, although they are in some way affected by certain odors.
At first he entertained the opinion that the sense of smell in spiders, like that of hearing, abides entirely in the delicate hairs covering the creature.
Later, judging from the experiments of the Peckhams, he states that their experiments would indicate that the olfactory organs are distributed more or less over the entire surface of the body, especially at the tips of the feet and at the apex of the abdomen.
After the extirpation of the palps of two females, there was no apparent loss of sensitiveness.
Pritchett (1904) states that both kinds of odors, non-irritant and irritant, repel both males and females in the same degree.
Individuals with either palps, or first pair of legs, or tarsi of all legs removed, responded normally when all the other appendages were intact.
Also they responded in the same way when the sense hairs were removed from all the legs.
(c) Sense of Hearing.
Boys (1880) asserted that the garden spider responded readily to the vibrations of tuning forks, but since this is an orb-weaver the web certainly must have been irritated in some way to cause the so-called auditory reactions.
The Peckhams found that only web-makers responded to tuning forks, while those that make no webs gave not the slightest heed to sounds.
They attempted to explain this phenomenon by the difference in the method of capturing food, but now it is pretty generally agreed that in all such experiments the vibrations from the tuningforks agitate the webs.
McCook cites several recorded cases where spiders are supposed to hear and in a few cases to really enjoy music, but he thought that such responses of the araneads could be explained in other ways than by imagining that they have an auditory perception.
McCook concluded after many experiments with musical instruments, various sounds of the human voice and sonorous objects that if spiders have any sense of hearing, that sense is distributed, like the sense of smell, over the entire body and that it can scarcely be distinguished from the sense of touch.
Dahl (1883) called certain peculiar hairs on the three end joints of the legs auditory hairs.
They are even so constant in arrangement that he attaches an important taxonomic significance to them.
In order to prove the possibility that they have an auditory function he placed the foot of a dead dried spider under the microscope.
Then he struck a deep tone on a violin and noticed a vibration of these hairs.
From this evidence he claimed that spiders have an auditory sense, although with live araneads he could not always notice any reaction to tones.
He stated that a nerve fibre runs out from the base of each of these hairs but presents no drawing of such.
The next year Dahl described and presented a drawing of the nerve of a spider's leg which can be easily recognized by its long irregularly arranged nuclei.
He said that from this nerve fibres run out to the individual auditory hairs, but even here he produces no drawing of such a connection.
Judging from the similarity in structure of various kinds of hairs Wagner (1888) asserted that Dahl's so-called auditory hair could not have such a function.
Westring (1843) was the first to mention a stridulating organ in a theridiid, Asagena phalerata.
Wood-Mason (1875) exhibited specimens of a gigantic theraphosid which he called Mygale stridulans.
These produced loud stridulating sounds.
Campbell (1881) observed these organs in three or four different species of theridiids.
Peal (1895) noticed the stridulating phenomena of an Australian spider.
Pocock (1895) discovered and gave drawings of a stridulating organ in the male of Cambridgea antipodtana, an agalenid.
Since the organs were present only in the males he concluded that the sound emitted must be a sexual call.
Spencer (1895) observed a theraphosid which was able to produce a ; stridulating sound.
Montgomery (1909) stated also that the genus Geotrecha, a drassid, exhibits a good case of stridulation.
In the theridiids and Geotrecha as yet the stridulation has never been heard by the human ear.
It cannot be a sexual call for the sexes in Geotrecha show no responses whatever to the stridulation of each other and do not even stridulate during the mating.
Even if the sound in the theraphosids and others is audible to the human ear,, this need not imply that these araneads have auditory organs for it is much more probable that such sounds serve only as a warning to animals other than spiders.
Therefore, when all the evidence concerning the sense of hearing is summarized, I am convinced that spiders have no such sense according to our present definition of that perception.
B.
The Tactile Hairs.. Morphologically there are probably five or six different, kindsof hairs on the various parts of the bodies in different species of araneads.
.
Physiologically, as far as we know, they may be divided into the spinning hairs located on the spinnerets and the tactile hairs which include all others found elsewhere.
The latter group includes the large movable spines, the so-called auditory hairs and the various types of tactilehairs.
While searching for the sense cells of the Lyriform organs, 1 was successful also in finding the innervation of two kinds of tactile hairs and the muscles which move one of these.
The ones without muscles I shall call fixed tactile hairs and those with muscles movable tactile hairs.
In diameter the movable hairs are the second largest of all.
kinds of hairs and in length they are either as long but usually longer than any other type of hair; in Theridium tepidariorum they are abundantly distributed on the four distal joints of each leg, but rather sparingly on the other three joints of the legs and elsewhere, while on the femur most of them are located at the distal end arranged in twocircular rows on the two lines of articulation.
While these hairs are long, slender, more or less bent and can be moved only slightly, the movable spines are generally short, thick, straight and can be moved considerably.
The former are certainly only a modification of the latter.
Fig.
7, from the trochanter of Pholcus, exhibits the complete innervation of the fixed tactile hairs.
The socket (sk.)
here, as in other cases where no muscles were observed, is like those of the movable hairs.
The nerve (N.) is considerably torn, but still the parts are very, distinct.
A process of the neurilemma (neu.)
encloses the nerve fiber (n. f.) which runs to the sense cell (s. c.) lying at the base of the hypodermis.
After the neurilemma passes around this sense cell it can no longer be seen, but the delicate sensory fiber (s. f.) continues to the socket.
The sense cell at the right is much smaller and the neurilemma seems to stop before it surrounds the cell.
Fig.
6, from the distal end of the femur of Th.
tepidariorum six or seven hours after moulting, shows the actual union of the sense cell (s. c.) with the base of the movable hair.
Here the sensory fiber (s. f.) ends in the cavity of the hair very near the bottom.
This sense cell is similar to those of the lyriform organs, but is more difficult to find.
In this section only fragments of the two muscles (m.) were discernible, and the hypodermis (hyp.)
is pulled away from the newly formed cuticula (cu.).
Fig.
S, from the same section as fig.
6, is a better representation of the socket and muscles, but the sense cell was not present.
Here the apparently smooth muscles are attached at one end to the bottom of the flask (fl.)
of the socket and at the other end to the basement membrane (b. m.) of the hypodermis.
The sensory fiber is very indistinct here.
The cytoplasmic substance (cyt.
s.) exhibited in the cavity of this hair was observed in another hair of the same individual.
It has the same color as has the sensory fiber, but instead of its walls being smooth, they are corrugated.
Thus this substance must be dead cytoplasm and not a continuation of the fiber into the cavity.
In the cross sections of the smaller fixed tactile hairs the sockets were always similar to those drawn, but in only one case did I see the sense cell, and in no instance did I ever see any signs of the muscles.
One can easily illustrate that the largest hairs and particularly the spines on the legs of any spider are movable by gently touching them with a small object.
Before being touched they form an angle of about twenty degrees with the leg; at the instant of being irritated they lie down almost flat on the leg, the spider either lifts its leg or moves away and in only a few seconds the hairs are raised again to their normal position.
Perhaps the movable spines serve primarily as a protective purpose in guarding off enemies and various kinds of obstacles, while probably the movable tactile hairs are used primarily as tactile instruments which receive the impulses of gusts of wind and the heavy vibrations of the webs, and the various kinds of smaller tactile hairs with their nervous connections receive and transmit the more delicate tactile stimuli.
Dahl (1883) called the slenderest and probably the most delicate of the tactile hairs on the legs and palps auditory hairs, because they responded to the vibrations of a violin.
Wagner (1888) described and gave drawings of four different kinds of hairs.
His type called the "poil tactil fin" seems to correspond very closely to Dahl's auditory hair.
Wagner showed that each type has a nerve fiber running out from its base.
He said that the function of these different types cannot be recognized as identical and that no one of them can be regarded as an auditory organ.
But if their function is not identical, the similarity of their fundamental parts as compared with each other and with Dahl's auditory hair causes one to conclude that they have an analogous function.
Neither one of the above observers has seen the sense cells or muscles of any one type of these tactile hairs.
McCook (1890), in discussing the so-called auditory and tactile hairs, thought that all the various types should be regarded as tactile only and that perhaps each type has a particular tactile function to perform, but not an auditory one as Dahl thought.
Gaubert (1890) stated that the tactile hairs are moved by turgescence and that they possess no muscular fibers.
In (1892) he asserted that the short curved spines of spiders are innately movable and serve as a strong defense by projecting outward when the aranead is seized.
In discussing the blood pressure he stated that the joints are stretched by turgor, which also moves the tactile hairs.
Both Gaubert (1892) and Hansen (1893) have foundftactile hairs in certain species of scorpions.
The latter author described two kinds of sensitive hairs in various species of the pedipalps, and tactile hairs are found in all genera known to him in the pseudoscorpions.
Hansen and Surensen (1904), pp.
39 and 130) state that sensitive hairs are present in the phalangids and ricinulei.
Bibliography.
Banta, A. M. 1907.
The Fauna of Maj^field's Cave.
(Pub.
No.
67, Carnegu Institution, pp.
59-67.)
Bertkau, P. 1878.
Versuch einer naturlichen Anordnung der Spinnen nebst Bemerkungen einzelnen Gattungen (Archiv.
Naturg., p. 354).
1885.
Bemerkungen zu Schimkewitsch's Xotiz (Zool.
Anz., VIII, pp.
537, 538).
Boys, C. V. 1880.
The Influence of a Tuning-fork on the Garden Spider (Nature, XXIII, pp.
149, 150).
Campbell.
1881.
Stridulating Organs in Spiders (J. Linn.
Soc, XV, pp.
152-155).
Dahl, T. 1883.
Ueber die Horhaare bei den Araclmiden (Zool.
Anz., VI).
1884.
Das Gehorund Geruchsorgan der Spinnen (Arch.
mikr.
Anat., XXIV, pp.
1-10).
1885.
Zur Anatomie der Araneen (Zool.
Anz., VIII, pp.
241-243).
Gaubert, P. 1890.
(a) Note sur les organs lyriformes des Arachnides (Bull.
Soc.
Philom., (8), II).
(b) Quelque observations nouvelles sur le mouvement des membres et des poils tactiles des Arachnides, p. 15 of the second part (ibidem).
1892.
Recherches sur les organes des sens et sur-les systems tegumentaire, glandulaire et musculaire des appendices des Arachnides (Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Zool., (7), XIII, pp.
31-185, Pis.
I-IV).
Hansen, H. J.
1893.
Organs and Characters in Different Orders of Arachnids (Entomologiske Meddelelser, pp.
136-251, Tab.
II-V).
Hansen, H. J., and Sorensen, W. 1904.
On Two Orders of Arachnida (Cambr.
Univ.
Press, pp.
42 and 130).
McCook, H. C. 1890.
American Spiders and their Spinning Work' (Vol.
II, Philadelphia).
McIndoo, N. E. 1911.
Notes on Some Arachnids from Ohio Valley Caves (Biol.
Bull., Vol.
XX, No.
3, February).
Montgomery, T. H., Jr. 1909.
Further Studies on the Activities of Araneads, II (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Philadelphia, pp.
557, 558).
Packard, A. S. 1887.
Abstract of Kraepelin's Criticisms on Works of Writers on Olfactory Organs of Arthropods.
(Am.
Nat., XXI, p. 182).
Peal, S. E. 1895.
Stridulating Organ in a Spider (Nature, LII, p. 148).
Peckham, G. W. and E. G. 1887.
Some Observations on the Mental Powers of Spiders (Journ.
Morph., I, pp.
383-419).
Pocock, R. I.
1895.
On a New Sound-producing Organ in a Spider (Ann.
Mag.
N.
Hist., (6), XVI, pp.
230-233).
Pritchett, Annie H. 1904.
Observations on Hearing and Smell in Spiders (Am.
Nat., XXXVIII, pp.
859-867).
Schimkewitsch, W. 1885.
Sur un organ des sens des Araignees (Zool.
Am., IV).
1884.
Recherches sur l'anatomie de l'Epeira (Ann.
Sci.
Nat., p. 7).
Simon, E. 1892.
Histoire Naturelle des Araignees (2me ed., 1, Paris).
Spencer, Baldw.
1895.
The Presence of a Stridulating Organ in a Spider (Nature, LI, p. 438).
Wagner, M. W. 1888.
La Mue des Araia;nees (Ann.
Sci.
Nat., Paris, (7), p. 295).
1888.
Des Poils nommes auditifs chez les Araignees (Bull, de la Soc.
imp.
des naturalists des Moscou, p. 121).
Westring.
1843.
Stridulation of Asagena phalerata (Nat.
Hist.
Tidsskr., IV, Copenhagen, p. 349).
Wood-Mason.
1875.
Stridulation of a Theraphosid (Proc.
Asiat.
Soc.
Bengal, p. 197).
Vogt, O, et Yung, E. 1894.
Anatomie Comparee (Vol.
II, Paris, p. 209).
Explanation of Plates XXX-XXXII1.
All figures are from camera lucida drawings made at the base of the microscope.
Abbreviations.
ag.
cyt aggregations of dense staining di dilatation.
cytoplasm.
ex.
m extensor muscle.
art artery.
fl flask of socket.
b border.
hyp hypodermis.
b. c blood corpuscles.
int.
b internal border.
b. m basement membrane of hypo1. o lyriform organ.
dermis.
m. b muscle bundle.
b. m. n... .nuclei of basement membrane, m. nuc muscle nuclei.
b. p blood plasm.
mov.
h movable tactile hair.
ca cavity of hair.
N nerve of leg.
con.
t connective tissue.
N. b nerve branch.
con.
t. n. .connective tissue nuclei.
n. f nerve fiber.
•cu cuticula.
neu neurilemma.
\t.
s cytoplasmic substance.
el neu nuclei of neurilemma.
neu.
n neuroglia nuclei.
s. f sensory fiber.
neuw neuroglia walls.
sk socket.
nuc.
c nuclei of hypodermal cells.
si slit.
o. m outer membrane of hypos. s single slit.
dermis.
t. h fixed tactile hair.
r. m reflexor muscle.
v. sin venous sinus.
sar sarcolemma.
1.
1. a first line of articulation.
s. c sense cell.
2.
1. a second line of articulation.
s. c. n sense cell nucleus.
Plate XXX.
— Fig.
1.
— Cross section of distal end of trochanter of Agalena ncevia just moulted, showing the anatomy of the leg and the innervation of a large lyriform organ.
The cuticula is only diagrammatic as taken from various species.
The nerve is drawn at the location it holds when its branch penetrates the basement membrane of the hypodermis, although this branch begins to leave the nerve 220 microns in front of this place.
The sense cells have their natural position, but they have been reconstructed from nine sections just in front of where the nerve branch enters the hypodermis.
All other parts are taken from just one section in front of the organ.
Leitz oc.
2 and obj.
7.
X 290.
Fig.
2.
— Diagram of a longitudinal-transverse section of the distal end of the femur of Th.
tepidariorum, showing the anatomy of the leg and the innervation of the following: a lyriform organ, a fixed tactile hair, a movable tactile hair, and the two muscles of the latter hair.
All the larger hairs are more or less movable, while the smaller ones are nonmovable.
Plate XXXI.
— Fig.
3.
— Two sense cells as they actually appear in a cross section of a trochanter of Th.
tepidarioriim six or seven hours after moulting.
Zeiss comps.
oc.
6 and oil imm.
12.
X 960.
Fig.
4.
— Diagram showing a single slit of a lyriform organ with its sense cell attached at the bottom of the dilatation.
Fig.
5.
— Reconstruction from two consecutive sections of the trochanter of Th.
tepidarioriim six or seven hours after moulting, showing the innervation of a single slit.
Zeiss comps.
oc.
6 and oil imm.
12.
X 960.
Fig.
6.
— The innervation with fragments of two muscles of a movable tactile hair from the distal end of the femur of Th.
tepidariorum six or seven hours after moulting.
The hypodermis is pulled away from the cuticula.
Leitz oc.
4 and obj.
7.
X 720.
Fig.
7.
— The innervation of two fixed tactile hairs on the trochanter of Pholcus.
The nerve is considerably torn.
Leitz oc.
2 and obj.
7.
X 455.
Fig.
8.
— Same as fig.
6, except a much smaller hair.
Here the muscles are distinctly shown, but the sense cell is absent.
Zeiss comps.
oc.
6 and oil imm.'
12.
X 960.
Plate XXXII.
— Fig.
9.
— a ventral and b dorsal surface of the palp of a male Troglohyphantes, showing the single slits on the sixth joint.
The bulb with its accessaries are omitted.
Leitz oc.
2 and obj.
3.
X 50.
Fig.
10.
— Organ No.
13 on metatarsus of second leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Figs.
10-12 and 15-58.
X 385.
Zeiss comps.
oc.
6 and Leitz obj.
7.
Fig.
11.
— The extremely large organ on cheliceron of Moggridgea.
Fig.
12.
— Organ on tibia of third leg of Uroctea.
Fig.
13.
— Ventral view of Th.
tepidariorum, showing disposition of lyriform organs.
The legs are slightly too short and the last two pairs are turned over so that their dorsal surface is shown.
The spider is enlarged about five, while the lyriform organs are enlarged about seven times.
Fig.
14.
— Same as fig.
13, except here the doisal view is shown and the last two pairs of legs are turned over so that they show their ventral surface.
Plate XXXIII.
— Fig.
15.
— Organ No.
3 from trochanter of fourth leg of Th.
tepidariorum .
Fig.
16.
— Simple organ Xo.
1 from coxa of first leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
17.
— Organ Xo.
9 on patella of palp of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
IS.
— b organ No.
9 and a its associated slit on patella of second leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
19.
— Simple organ on spinneret oi Epeira.
Fig.
20.
— Organs Xos.
1-1 and 15 on cheliceron of Htjptiotes.
Fig.
21.
— Slits from labium of Ariadna.
Fig.
22.
— Slits from female Pholcus near epigynum.
Fig.
23.
— Organ Xo.
8 on patella of palp of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
24.
— Organ No.
5 on femur of second leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
25.
— Organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea.
Fig.
26.
— Organ Xo.
2 on trochanter of palp of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
27.
— Organ Xo.
1 on coxa of palp of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
2S.
—-Organs Xo.
16 and 17 on cheliceron of Dictyna.
Fig.
29.
— Single slits with hairs on first joint of spinneret of Evagrus.
Fig.
30.
— Organ Xo.
4 from trochanter of third leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
31.
— Single slit marked a in figs.
13 and 14.
Fig.
32.
— a is single slit marked c on legs: b is the slit marked c on ventral side of palp; c is slit called d on dorsal side of palp.
See figs.
13 and 14.
Fig.
33.
— Compound organ on spinneret of Tamo.
Fig.
34.
— a is slit called e on palp ; b is slit marked / on palp ; c is slit marked / on first leg.
See figs.
13 and 14.
Fig.
35.
— Organ Xo.
1 on coxa of third leg of Moggrid Fig.
36.
— Slits from pedicle of Moggridgea.
Fig.
37.
— a is slit marked m on first leg; b is slits on same leg in figs.
13 and 14.
Fig.
38.
— Organ Xo.
5 on femur of palp of Tit.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
39.
— Slits marked h on maxilla in fig.
13.
Fig.
40.
— Transverse organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea.
Fig.
41.
— Organ Xo.
IS on pedicle of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
42.
— Slits marked i on sternum in fig.
13.
Fig.
43.
— Two organs in front of epigynum of Calculus.
Fig.
44.
— a is slit marked j near epigynum : b is slits k on spinneret in fig.
13.
Fig.
45.
— Organ Xo.
12 on tibia of second leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Y\k.
46.
— Slits from cephalothoracic shield of Ariadna.
Fig.
47.
— Organ with two isolated slits in front of epigynum of Dijsdera.
Fig.
48.
— Organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea.
Fig.
49.
— Organ on tarsus of second leg of Hypochilus.
Fig.
50.
— Slits marked g on cheliceron of fig.
13.
Fig.
51.
— a and b organs 14 and 15, respectively, on cheliceron of Th.
tepielariorum.
Fig.
52.
— Organ Xo.
2 from trochanter of first leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
53.
— Organ Xo.
2 from trochanter of second leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
54.
— Slits near epigynum of Moggi-idgea.
Fig.
55.
— a and e organ Xo.
16 and itassociated slit : b Xo.
17 on cheliceron of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
56.
— Organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea.
Fig.
57.
— a and b organs Xos.
10 and 11, respectively, from tibia of second leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
Fig.
58.
— a organ Xo.
7 and 1> X'o.
S on patella of third leg of Th.
tepidariorum.
1011.]
410 SOME FISHES FROM VENEZUELA.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Mr. Frank E. Bond having, during the past winter, organized an expedition to collect objects of natural history in the region of the Orinoco delta, secured the fishes here reported.
The collection, though small, is important, as it contains several interesting forms apparently new.
The Academy is indebted to Mr.
Bond for the gift of the specimens to the museum.
CHARACID^].
TETRAGONOPTERINiE.
Phenacogaster bondi sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 3f; depth 2; D. iii, 0. i: A. iii, 33, i; P. i.
12: V. i, 6; scales in 1.
1.
31 +2; 8 scales above 1.
1.; 8 scales below 1.
1.: 14 preclorsal scales; head width 2 Ay its length; snout 4: eye 2f; maxillary 2f; Fig.
1.
— Phenacogaster bondi Fowler.
Type.
mandible 2|; interorbital 24; first branched anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2£; pectoral If; ventral (tip damaged) 2|-.
Bod}' deep, strongly compressed, contour slightly ovoid with greatest depth at dorsal origin, profiles generally similar, predorsal and postventral slightly trenchant and all other edges rounded convexly.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about f its least depth.
Head rather small, well compressed, upper profile at first slightly convex and then equally concave, lower profile a little convex, and flattened sides slightly constricted below.
Snout convex over surface, obtuse, length about half its base.
Eye rounded, but little elevated and near first | in head.
Maxillary exposed, except under edge which slips below narrow preorbital, nearly vertical, toothless, extends back a little beyond front eye margin, but not quite opposite pupil.
Mouth broadly transverse, rather small, commissure as seen laterally slight and a little inclined.
Lips rather thin.
Teeth only in jaws, upper biserial and lower entirely uniserial, and most all or at least anterior ones with a strong median cusp and 2 smaller ones each side.
Upper teeth of about uniform size, all at least tricuspid and smaller than mandibular teeth.
Mandible about even with snout tip when closed, scarcely projects, surface convex and rami but little elevated.
Tongue depressed, upper surface flattened, free in front, tip rounded.
Nostrils close together, close before eye above, similar, and anterior with slight posterior cutaneous flap exposing posterior in slight crescent.
Interorbital evenly convex.
Postero-infraorbital width 2 in eye, and postorbital a little narrower.
Suborbitals not entirely covering cheek or extending to preopercle ridge, leaving a rather wide strip of skin.
Preopercle ridge inclined a little forward, and at lower corner 3 diverging flutings.
Opercle narrow, width about 2f its depth.
Occipital fontanel broad.
Head bones all smooth.
Gill-opening forward about opposite or trifle before front pupil edge, though not to front eye edge.
Rakers about 9 + 9, slender, weak, pointed, compressed, about 2 in filaments.
Latter about 2 in eye.
No pseudobranchiae.
Isthmus compressed, constricted in front, surface convex.
Branchiostegals 4, compressed, rather large.
Scales large, each well exposed, in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1., each with 2 or 3 radiating stria?, size uniform except smaller ones apparently distributed entirely over caudal, though at present most of them removed.
Anal base covered with small scales like those on caudal.
Other fins naked.
Apparently no scaly axillary pectoral or ventral flaps.
L. 1. complete, a trifle decurved at first from shoulder, then straight to median caudal base.
Tubes in 1.
1. simple, each well exposed and not extending back to exposed scale edge.
Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base, first branched ray longest, though tip of third depressed branched ray reaches well behind tip of last, and fin If to caudal base, or a little longer than head.
Adipose fin inserted a little nearer caudal base than last dorsal ray base, fin base slender and end a little expanded, reaches 2 to caudal base.
Anal base long, origin of fin about opposite second branched dorsal ray base, first branched ray longest with others graduated down about first half in fin length, after which rays uniformly lower.
Caudal emarginate (damaged), apparently about long as head ?
Pectoral inserted low, extends well beyond ventral origin.
Latter midway between pectoral and anal origins, fin about f to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color when fresh in rum ecru-brownish generally, paler to whitish with bright silvery on sides below.
Head pale brownish above, sides and below burnished brilliant silverywhite.
Iris deep umber, with rather reddish tinge.
Lips brownish.
A grayish humeral spot about size of pupil.
No caudal spot.
From humeral spot to median caudal base an underlaid leaden streak, very narrow and well defined behind, overlaid silvery.
Upper edge of body dusted with dull or pale brownish.
Dorsals, caudal and anal dull olivaceous-brown, and other fins paler.
Length H inches (caudal tips damaged).
Type No.
37,863, A. N. S. P. Corisal, Venezuela.
February 27th, 1911.
F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown.
Nos.
37,864 to 37,866, paratypes, same data.
Head 3j to 3+; depth 2; D. iii, 9, i; A, iii, 29, i to hi, 32, i; scales in 1.
1.
30 to 32 + 2 or 3; scales above 1.
1.
8 or 9; scales below 1.
1.
9 or 10; predorsal scales 14 or 15; snout 4 to 44/ in head; eye 2 T \ to 2h; maxillary 2f to 2f ; interorbital 2f to 2f ; length If to lh inches (caudal tips damaged).
Though the scales are not entirely distributed over the caudal fin at present, they were evidently so' when the examples were fresh, and for this reason I have restored them on the accompaning figure.
P. bondi differs from all the known species in its deeper body, which suggests Tetragonopterus.
P. pectinatus (Cope) has the anal beginning before the dorsal origin, which may be seen on comparing my figure, wrongly called Astyanax longior} The species I have figured as A. pectinatus 2 is A. longior (Cope).
P. megalostictus Eigenmann and 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, p. 342, fig.
30.
2 L. c, p. 341, fig.
29.
P. microstictus Eigenmann both differ in the slender body, coloration, etc., when compared with P. bondi.
P. bairdii (Steindachner) has the anal radii 40 to 42.
(Named for Mr. Frank E.
Bond.)
APODASTYANAX gen. nov.
Type Apodastyanax stewardsoni sp.
nov.
Body elongated moderately, well compressed.
Head moderate.
Mouth small.
Teeth only in jaws, upper biserial and lower uniserial.
Maxillary small, reaches front eye edge, toothless.
Rakers thin, slender.
Scales moderately small, cycloid, and only on base of caudal, remainder of fin and other fins naked.
L. 1. complete, median along side.
Dorsal inserted about midway in body.
Anal with long base, inserted about opposite dorsal origin.
Adipose fin present.
Caudal emarginate.
Pectoral low, moderate.
No ventral fins.
Coloration brownish, silvered.
A grayish shoulder spot and a dusky basal caudal spot.
Size small.
This genus seems to be well separated from almost all the others in the absence of ventral fins, of which there is no trace whatever.
(A, without; -<>u$, foot; , aarodva^ } Astyanax; with reference to the absence of the ventral fins.)
Apodastyanax stewardsoni sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 3f ; depth 24; D. hi, 9; A. hi, 39, i; P. i, 12; scales in 1.
1. about 42 + 3?
(squamation injured); 12 scales above 1.
1. ; 13 scales below 1.
1. ; 21 predorsal scales; head width 2^ its length; mandible about 2f ; dorsal base 1*; first branched anal ray about 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^; snout 5 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2^; maxillary 3J; interorbital 2f.
Body strongly compressed, deepest before middle or about first f in total length at dorsal and anal origins, predorsal region with slightly constricted or trenchant edge due to median keel, other edges rounded convexly, and general contour ovoid.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about f its least depth.
Head moderate, compressed, lower profile slightly more inclined, flattened sides a little constricted below.
Snout short, surface convex, obtuse as viewed from above, length about half its basal width.
Eye large, circular, a little elevated, about first f m head.
Mouth small, transverse, with strong jaws.
Maxillary small, vertical, along front edge of eye below, and not extending below lower edge of latter, its greatest expansion about 4 in pupil.
Lips thin.
Teeth only in front of each jaw, none on maxillary.
Upper jaw teeth 9 in 1911.]
423 outer series, tricuspid, smaller than in inner series, and with median cusp enlarged.
Inner upper teeth quadricuspid, each tooth having 2 small inner cusps and an enlarged cusp next to small external cusp.
Mandibular teeth similar to last, large, uniserial, and 10 in number.
No other teeth in mouth.
Tongue depressed or flattened, rounded ill Fig.
2.
— Apodastyanax stewardsoni Fowler.
Type.
or free in front.
Mandible small, strong, well protruded before snout tip, rather short.
Nostrils together, close before eye above.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Postero-infraorbital broad, width about | of eye.
Other suborbitals all narrower.
Preopercle ridge slightly inclined forward, its hind edge vertical.
Opercle width 1^ in eye.
Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge.
Rakers.
9 + 14, small, thin, slender, 2h in eye.
Filaments 2 in eye.
Pseudobranchiae not evident.
Isthmus narrowly constricted in front.. Branchiostegals about 6, well compressed and rather broad.
Scales cycloid, all well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1., not extending on fins except few on caudal base.
No axillary pectoral scaly flap.
L. 1. complete, a little decurved at first, then straight and midway along side of body to caudal base medianly.
Tubes in 1.
1. simple, each extending well over exposure of scale, though not quite reaching its hind exposed edge.
Dorsal origin inserted about midway between snout tip and caudal base, first branched ray largest (now a little damaged terminally), and apparently a little longer than head, depressed back slightly more than half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted trifle after last third in space between last dorsal ray base and caudal base, fin slender, about If to caudal base.
Caudal (damaged) evidently emarginate.
Anal inserted nearly opposite dorsal origin, anterior or first branched ray longest, base of fin long and all other rays low.
Pectoral inserted low, rather long, upper rays longest, pointed, and falling little short of anal origin.
Vent close before anal.
Color when fresh in rum pale brownish, nearly ecru, sides and below silvered whitish.
Scales along edge of back and above dusted rather inconspicuously with dull dusky.
A leaden streak from shoulder to caudal base, where it resolves in an ill-defined dusky spot a little larger than pupil, but not so large as eye.
Another spot at shoulder, where leaden streak begins, a little smaller than caudal spot, and paler or leaden in color.
Dorsal and caudal pale olivaceous-ecru, and anal similar though still paler.
Pectoral very pale or whitish.
Iris deep brown, tinged reddish.
Head pale brown above, sides and below burnished bright silverywhite.
Lips pale brownish.
Peritoneum showing through abdominal walls as whitish.
Length If inches (caudal tips damaged).
Type No.
37,867, A. N. S. P. Corisal, Venezuela.
February 27th, 1911.
F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown.
Only the above, a small example, taken in a pail from a small stream, along with the types of Phenacogaster hondi.
It is now in rather poor preservation.
(Named for Mr. Stewardson Brown.)
SERRASALMIN.E.
Pygooentrus stigmaterythraeus sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 2f; depth If; D. ii, 15, i; A. hi, 27, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 6; scales in 1.
1. according to tubes 80 + 9; scales above 1.
1. along its course 102 + 12; 40 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin; 48 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin; 38 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin; predorsal scales about 57; head width about If its length; head depth at occiput about lyV; mandible 2\; first branched dorsal ray (tip damaged now) about If ?
; third simple anal ray 2\; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; upper caudal lobe (tip damaged) about If?
; lower caudal lobe (tip slightly damaged) about 1^; pectoral 1^; ventral 2+; snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4f; maxillary 2^; interorbital 2|-.
1911.]
425 Body deep, well compressed, robust, contour slightly ovoid with greatest depth at dorsal origin, predorsal edge slightly trenchant, also postdorsal, abdominal edge trenchant with 19+9 serrse, of which postventral larger, and other body edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, its least depth about equal to its length.
Head heavy, robust, compressed moderately, upper profile more Fig.
3.
— Pygocentrus stigmaterythroeus Fowler.
Type.
inclined, first convex and then slightly concave.
Lower head profile a little convex and flattened sides scarcely constricted below.
Snout surface convex, abruptly declivous in front and length about fbasal width.
Eye circular, lower edge falling about level with middle in greatest head depth at occiput, and about first f in head measured from snout to hind edge of opercle.
Mouth broadly transverse, a little oblique and with strong, powerful jaws.
Maxillary small, well inclined, rather small, its upper hind end entirely concealed by broad infraorbital, though it would reach about opposite middle of eye.
Lips well developed, mandibular a little thicker.
Teeth only in jaws, well compressed, uniserial, all with tips slightly recurved, triangular, and most or at least median ones with a small and often obsolete basal cusp each side.
Mandibular teeth much larger than those in upper 28 jaw, all sharply pointed and with entire edges.
Buccal fold inside each row of teeth large and fleshy.
Tongue broad, depressed, fleshy, rounded and free in front.
Mandible large, strong and protruding well beyond snout, surface broadly convex below, and rami but little elevated in mouth, though much deeper at articulation behind than at symphysis.
Nostrils large, together, anterior large pore with broad cutaneous flap behind exposing posterior in crescent.
Interorbital broadly and evenly convex.
Infraorbital width about equals eye, with narrow anterior preorbital moiety.
Postero-infraorbital width about equals H eye-diameters, though not extending below to preopercle ridge, leaving an elongated unevenly triangular naked region on cheek below, greatest width of which area about 2| in eye.
Postorbital large, nearly equal to greatest width 01 postero-infraorbital.
Opercle vertical, narrow, greatest width about 3+ its depth or but trifle less than eye.
All suborbitals and opercle with conspicuous or well-marked radiating striae, also some coarser and uneven stria?
in lower hind flange of preopercle.
Power and exposed surfaces of subopercle, interopercle and branchiostegals also show a few feeble stria 3 .
Cutaneous margin of gill-opening narrow.
Upper surface of head covered with smooth skin and a long, narrow median occipital fontanel.
Shoulder-girdle little exposed, smooth.
Gill-opening forward about opposite hind eye edge.
Rakers 8 + 12. conic, with rather slender tips, fleshy, pliable, uppermost and lowermost somewhat rudimentary, longest 2 in eye.
Filaments 1^ in eye.
Xo pseudobranchise.
Gill-membranes form broad fold over isthmus, latter broad and surface slightly convex.
Branchiostegals 4, broad, all well exposed.
Scales small, cycloid, mostly disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. and becoming a little enlarged just after gill-opening, along abdominal serraa and behind pectoral base.
Caudal base broadly covered with scales but little smaller than those on caudal peduncle.
Anal base also broadly scaly, only outer scales much smaller.
A concealed depressed sagittate spine before dorsal origin with apex directed towards head.
Small broad-based double spine before anal origin.
Xo axillary scaly flaps to paired fins.
P. 1. complete, begins a little high at first, slopes down soon till opposite median axis and then runs straight to caudal base, and also extends over squamation of latter.
Tubes rather small, simple, well exposed, but not extending entirely over exposures of scales.
Scales not completely passing over predorsal ridge, but leave a narrow naked strip.
1 )orsal origin falls about midway in vertical between eye center and caudal base, first branched ray (tip slightly damaged) evidently longest, and not quite depressed posteriori}' far as tip of last ray, fin If to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted about midway between last dorsal ray base and caudal base, fin about 2 to latter.
Caudal broad, emarginated behind, lower lobe much larger and stronger, all rays rather osseous.
Anal inserted opposite seventh dorsal ray base, rudimentary rays and also first branched, all rather enlarged, osseous and conspicuous, third simple longest with others graduated down about first half of fin, after which all of about uniform height.
Pectoral inserted low, pointed, about 1* to anal, or tip at least a little beyond ventral origin in vertical.
Ventral inserted a little before dorsal or about midway in vertical between pectoral and anal origins, reaches about 1^ to anal.
Vent close before anal, but without abdominal serrae extending along sides.
Last abdominal serrature (counted one above) a series of 3 small transverse spines in front of vent.
Color when fresh in rum with back brilliant steel-blue, more or less dusky and brownish in some lights.
Upper surface of head duskybrown, becoming paler on sides and ruddy-vermilion on lower surface.
Lips dusky like top of head.
Iris deep brown, tinged with deep reddish.
Teeth shining white.
Abdomen brilliant vermilion, fading rosy and paler above and behind.
Flanks grayish-brown with iridescent bluish of more or less paler tints than back, and all this region down to base of anal with inconspicuous deeper ill-defined spots, all of which much more clearly where scales have fallen.
These obscure spots all small, mostly rounded, and apparently larger than pupil.
A broad jet-black blotch of large size, about equal in extent to entire postero-suborbital area, at beginning of 1.
1. just after gill-opening.
Dorsal deep dusky, also caudal largely similar, with rather broad submarginal diffuse brownish or paler area concurrent with much narrower blackish edge along hind emargination.
Adipose fin dusky or blackish.
Anal largely vermilion, scaly base reddish-brown, and lower edge narrowly dusky.
Pectoral and ventral brilliant vermilion, latter with slight dusky tinge distally.
Peritoneum whitish.
Length 5 inches.
l^-pe No.
37,868, A. N. S. P. La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, Venezuela.
February 16th, 1911.
F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown.
Also No.
37,869, A. N. S. P., paratype, with same data.
Head 2f ; depth 1 T V; D. ii, 16, i; A. iii, 27, i; scales in 1.
1. according to tubes 77+7; scales in lateral series counted along course of 1.
1. above 103 + 12; 40 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin; 40 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin; about 40 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin; about 50 predorsal scales; snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 44; maxillary 2£; interorbital 2*.
Abdominal seme 14 + 8.
This example otherwise agrees in most all respects.
Length about 4 inches.
Although this species agrees very well with the diagnosis of Serrasalmo (Pygocentrus) notatus Liitken, 3 the latter is too insufficiently described for positive identification.
Liitken's examples were 9 inches long, and thus the smaller eye he gives as 3 in the interorbital and 6 in the head, may be due to age ?
Liitken also says the head is 3 in the body, without caudal.
The only feature of coloration he mentions is the black shoulder spot.
My examples show the eye half the interorbital width.
(Iriyixa, brand, with reference to the large black post-scapular blotch; 'epuffpdios, reddish, referring to the abdomen.)
Serrasalmus coocogenis sp.
nov.
Fig.
i.
Head 34; depth If; D. ii, 14, i; A. iii, 29, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 6; scales in 1.
1. according to tubes 64 + 6; scales counted above 1.
1. along its course 87+8; 33 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin; 34 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin; 30 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin; 49 predorsal scales; head width about 1| its length; head depth at occiput about 1; mandible 2f; first branched dorsal ray If; third simple anal ray 2i; least depth caudal peduncle 3; upper caudal lobe (tip slightly damaged) about 11; lower caudal lobe ly ¥ ; pectoral If; ventral 2f ; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3i; maxillary 3; interorbital 2j.
Body deep, strongly compressed, contour slightly ovoid with greatest depth at dorsal origin, predorsal edge a little trenchant, postdorsal with only very slight median keel, abdominal edge trenchant with 23 + 10 serrae, and other body edges rounded convexly.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, length A its least depth.
Head heavy, compressed, profiles similarly inclined, upper slightly convex and then equally concave, lower slightly convex.
Flattened head sides scarcely constricted below.
Snout surface convex, obtuse in front, and its length about half its basal width.
Eye circular, but slightly elevated above middle in head depth and about first T 4 T in head length between snout tip and hind edge of gill-opening.
Mouth broadly transverse, a little inclined, and with strong jaws.
Maxillary well inclined, rather small, its upper posterior end entirely concealed by broad infraorbital, though it reaches about opposite front pupil 3 Vidensk.
Meddel.
For.
KjObenh., 1S74, p. 238 (240).
1911.]
429 edge.
Lips rather thin, mandibular little better developed.
Teeth only in jaws, well compressed, imiserial, all with tips slightly inclined inward, each tooth triangular with broad base and slight cusp each side, these becoming obsolete only on posterior teeth.
Cutting-edges of teeth mostly with at least obsolete or feeble minute seme, usually better developed towards basal cusps when present.
Mandibular teeth considerably larger than upper ones.
Buccal fold inside mouth along each row of teeth, large and fleshy.
Tongue depressed, surface Fig.
4.
— Serrasalmus coccogenis Fowler.
Type.
level, rather pointed, and free in front with rounded tip.
Mandible well protruding, moderate, strong, surface rather well convex below, and rami little elevated in mouth, though much deeper at posterior articulation than at symphysis.
Nostrils large, together, both as simple large pores with broad cutaneous flap of anterior exposing posterior in crescent.
Interorbital broadly and evenly convex.
Infraorbital width If in eye, with narrow preorbital anterior projection.
Postero-infraorbital width about If in eye, though not extending below to preopercle ridge, leaving an elongated and somewhat crescentic naked region on cheek below, greatest width of latter about 2j in eye.
Ppstorbital large, about as wide as postero-infraorbital.
Opercle narrow, inclined slightly forward, its width about 3f its depth.
Suborbitals, opercle, small marginal area of supraorbital, lower limb of preopercle, exposed portions of shoulder-girdle, subopercle, interopercle and lower or exposed portions of branchiostegals with radiating striae.
On suborbitals and opercle striae quite numerous and fine, on lower limb of preopercle coarse and irregular, and quite feeble on subopercle, interopercle and branchiostegals.
Upper head surface covered with smooth skin, and median occipital fontanel moderate.
Gill-opening forward about opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers vi 2+7, compressed, rather weak, flexible, pointed, about 3 in filaments.
Latter 1^ in eye.
No pseuclobranchise.
Gill-membranes form rather broad free fold over isthmus, latter well constricted in front and broad behind, its surface slightly convex.
Branchiostegals 4, well compressed, upper rather long, and all rather broad.
Scales small, cycloid, mostly disposed in series parallel with 1.
1.1 and becoming a little enlarged just after gill-opening and pectoral base.
Caudal base broadly covered with scales like those on caudal peduncle.
Anal base broadly scaly, and scales but little smaller than those on trunk above.
A concealed sagittate-shaped spine before dorsal origin, apex directed towards occiput.
Small broad-based double spine before anal origin.
No axillary scaly flaps to paired fins.
L. 1. complete, begins a little high at first, then slopes from shoulder down to about opposite median axis, when straight to caudal, also extending out on squamous area of latter.
Tubes simple, rather small, well exposed and not quite reaching across scale exposures.
Narrow median naked strip along predorsal edge, over which scales do not pass and extending from occiput to dorsal.
Dorsal origin trifle nearer caudal base than mandible tip, first branched ray longest, falling well short of tip of last when depressed, fin 1* to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted about midway between eleventh dorsal ray base and caudal base, fin about 2 to latter.
Caudal broad, emarginated behind, lower lobe much larger and stronger, all rays rather osseous.
Anal inserted about opposite ninth dorsal ray base, rudimentary rays well compressed, osseous and enlarged, third longest, first branched ray strong and longest in fin, others graduated down about first third in fin, after which all of about uniform length.
Pectoral inserted low, moderate, upper rays longest, reaches opposite ventral origin in vertical.
Ventral inserted a little before dorsal or about midway between pectoral and anal origins in vertical, fin ly to anal origin.
Vent close before anal, but abdominal serrse not along nicies.
Last abdominal serrature (counted as one above) a series of 3 small transverse spines before vent.
Color when fresh in rum with back bright or shining metallic-bluish in some lights, ground-color grayish-brown, and many obscure underlaid and rather crowded small pale dusky spots, these all much less than pupil, mostly only prominent above 1.
1. and scarcely evident below.
Midway between dorsal origin and I.
1. spots a little larger and more sparsely distributed than others.
At shoulder above, just behind upper portion of exposed shoulder-girdle bones at beginning of 1.
1., a blackish blotch nearly equal to eye in extent, and of rather irregular triangular shape.
Side of body below 1.
1. with general pale or whitish shade, but along its upper regions quite soiled with didl brownish, made up of minute dots.
Head dull brownish above, sides tinged dull rosy, upper sides with olivaceous reflections, and under surface brilliant vermilion about branchiostegals and lower preopercle limb.
From latter point all lower surface of head tinged or blushed rosy.
Opercle ruddy, with smutty tints.
Lips dusky.
Iris deep and warm brownish.
Chest, breast, axillary region of pectoral, and all region about abdominal serrse brilliant or blushed vermilion.
SerraB on abdomen pale or whitish, like teeth.
Dorsals and caudal dusky largely.
Rayed dorsal somewhat tinged with olivaceous, and adipose fin rather brownish.
Caudal margin behind blackish, also base, and intervening region brownish.
Inside mouth and gillopening pale.
Anal ruddy vermilion basally, margin dusky-black.
Pectoral and ventral brownish, ruddy basally.
Length 4|inches.
Type No.
37,870, A. N. S. P. La Peclrita, on the Cano Uracoa, Venezuela.
February 16th, 1911.
F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown.
Head 3 to 3f; depth If to If; D. usually ii, 14, i, often ii, 15, i, rarely ii, 13, i; A. usually iii, 30, i, often iii, 29, i, rarely iii, 28, i; scales in 1.
1. according to tubes 58 to 69 + 5 to 7; scales counted in lateral series above 1.
1.
78 to 80 + 7 or 8; predorsal scales 47 to 53: scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 30 to 35; scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 25 to 30; scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 30 to 35; abdominal serrse usually 21, sometimes 22, rarely 14 + 9; snout 3| to 4^ in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2| to 3^; maxillary 2|to 3 ; interorbital 2^ to 2|; length 2f to 4^ inches.
These examples all agree largely with the type, except that the two smallest show posteriori}' on each palatine a small tooth.
In color they also differ somewhat in having the dark spots of the back quite large, rather sparse and conspicuous, even below the 1.
1. and to the caudal base.
They also have less ruddy on the under surface of the body.
Nos.
37,871 to 37,875, A. N. S. P., paratypes, with same data as type.
The true generic position of this species would appear somewhat doubtful, if the diagnosis of Pygopristis Miiller and Troschel is allowed on its most important character, and that the absence of palatine teeth.
None of my large examples have any palatine teeth, and in the 2 small ones there is only a single simple small conic cusp on each palatine bone, except in one instance where 2.
Thus P. serridatas Valenciennes 4 may be found identical, though that writer does not mention any dark blotches on the side of the body, and yet he does say there are some traces of the dark shoulder-spot.
Serrasalmus caribe Valenciennes 5 differs in the D. 20, A.
27, and no scapular spot is mentioned or represented on the figure.
It may also be noted that Serrasalmo albus Humboldt and Valenciennes 6 is evidently an older name for S. caribe, and should therefore replace it.
Serrasalmus rhombeus (Linnaeus) differs according to Miiller and Troschel's figure 7 in having more palatine teeth.
S. marginatus (Valenciennes) differs in the lower anal edge beingblack only, but not the hind caudal edge.
Both»S'.
spilopleura (Kner) and S. gymnogenys (Giinther) are said to have 95 scales.
S. elongatus (Kner) differs in its elongated contour, the depth 2f.
S. gibbus Castelnau apparently has no spots whatever on the trunk.
S. brandtii (Liitken) has the scales 90, and the coloration is largely uniform or with minute blackish dots.
Among the species I have examined, S. humeralis Valenciennes, S. maculatus Kner, S. ce'sopus Cope, S. iridopsis Cope and S. unimaculatus Cope, all were found to have more palatine teeth in each series, besides various other characters.
S. paraensis (Steindachner) I have not seen, and also have not been able to consult its original description.
(ATfJzxos-j berry-red; y(vstov } cheek; with reference to the ruddy cheek.)
GASTEROPELECIN.E.
Chaloinus elongatus Giinther.
Head 4 to 4f; depth 3£ to 3f; D. ii, 9, i; A. iii, 25, i to iii, 28, i; scales in 1.
1.
38 to 40 + 4 or 5; 7 scales above 1.
1. ; 3 scales below 1.
1.
* Hist.
Nat.
Puiss., XXII, 1849, p. 224.
* L. c, p. 208.
* Obs.
z.
Comp., II, 1835, p. 173, PI.
47, fig.
1.
Orinoco R. 7 Hot.
Ick., I, 1845, PI.
2, fig.
4. to anal origin; 1 scale below 1.
1. to ventral origin; 21 to 23 predorsal scales; snout 3f to 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3| to 3f; maxillary 2| to 3; interorbital 3 to 3£; gill-rakers 12 to 14 + 24 to 28.
Snout obtuse, surface convex, length about -f its basal width.
Adipose eyelid moderate, pupil vertical, ellipsoid.
Maxillary vertical, to front eye edge.
Lips rather thin.
Usually, though sometimes absent, a pair of inner symphyseal mandibular small conic teeth.
Each maxillary with 2 small teeth.
Mandible slightly protruding.
Interorbital well convex.
Suborbital length about equals postocular.
Gill-opening extends forward about opposite eye front.
On thorax median series of scales largest.
Pointed free axillary pectoral and ventral scaly flaps well developed.
Color when fresh in rum largely bright silvery-white, back and upper surface with brilliant blue-green shade and largely brownish to dusky ground-color.
Head brownish above, silvery-white on sides.
Iris deep reddish-dusky.
Lips brownish.
Fins mostly olivaceous-dusky, lower pectoral rays, ventral and anal paler.
Length 6?
inches.
La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa.
February 16th, 1911.
Five examples.
This species is undoubtedly related to the specimen I have identified with Chalcinus brachipomus Valenciennes, from Guiana.
8 It agrees in the enlarged median lateral series of thoracic scales, and moderate adipose eyelid.
From Castelnau's figure of Chalcinus auritus Valenciennes, it appears that species is also related, but it would differ in the hind caudal edge being convex.
Possibly the enlarged median series of thoracic scales may be a character of subgeneric value, and for this group of species, the subgenus Chalcinus Valenciennes, type C. brachipomus Valenciennes, may be restricted.
For the others the subgenus Triportheus Cope, type T. flavus Cope, may be used.
It is, however, not possible to locate the other species satisfactorily, as they have been little studied and mostly imperfectly described.
C. albus (Cope) and C. inagdalence Steindachner, however, seem allied with Triportheus (C. angvlatus group).
ERYTHRIXI.VK.
Hoplias malabarious (Bloch).
Three from Pedernales on January 27th.
SILURIDuE.
AUCHENIPTERIN.K.
Pseudauchenipterus guppyi Regan.
Two specimens from Pedernales taken January 26th, and both Troc.
Acad.
Not.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, p. 449, fig.
43. agree with Regan's description.
9 Surely, his figure on Plate 2.3 is also identical, though the legend reads Pseudauchenipterus pasercwhile on Plate 24 it reads as the present species, and thus the latter is truly P. paseu.
Pseudauchenipterus nigrolineatus sp.
nov.
Fig.
5.
Head 3f ; depth 3f ; I), i, 6; A. hi, IS; P, i, 6; V. i, 7; head width 1 T V its length; head depth at occiput li; snout 3^; eyeSf; maxillary 3f; mouth width 2f; interorbital 1£; antero-internasal 3j; pectoral lyoj ventral 1J; third simple anal ray l|; least depth caudal peduncle 2%.
Body compressed, anteriorly robust, deepest at dorsal origin, and edges all convex.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth about If its length.
Head robust, upper profile nearly straight from snout tip to dorsal origin and little more inclined than lower profile, slightly convex sides a little converging above and very broad below, with under surface convex.
Snout broadly depressed, its length about If its greatest width.
Eye ellipsoid, inclined a little posteriorly, about midway in depth of head near first third head length, as seen in profile.
Adipose eyelid well developed, completely covering eye.
Mouth small, broadly transverse, commissure short.
Band of villiform teeth in each jaw, moderately broad, and these dental areas simple.
No other teeth in mouth.
Tongue broad, fleshy, thick, not free, depressed.
Maxillary barbel slender, reaches about § in depressed pectoral spine.
Four equally spaced mental barbels, outer reaches about middle in depiessed pectoral spine and inner about first tenth.
Internasal spaces about equally spaced, and space between front and hind nostril about 2 in internasal.
Interorbital broad, depressed, and with very slight concave transverse area anteriorly.
Frontal region with bones greatly perforate or honeycombed, and median fontanel opening broadly in front.
Occipital and lateral contiguous bones, also predorsal plate, all finely rugose-striate.
( )percle broadly triangular, and like all skin on side of head and snout, smooth.
Antero-supraorbital process swollen .
Gill-opening extends froward last ^ in head.
Bakers S + 14, short, firm, mostly well bifurcated, about 2h in filaments.
Fatter about equal eye.
No pseudobranchiae.
Branchiostegals 4, slender, rather long.
Body covered with smooth skin.
Head rugose on portions men9 Pvw.
Znnl.
Soc.
London, Jan.-April, 1906, p. 387.
1911.]
435 tioned, also large part of dorsal spine basally, hind projection of shoulder-girdle and pectoral spine slightly basally.
Shoulder-girdle anteriorly, and above articulation of pectoral spine, swollen, its surface smooth.
L. 1. median, rather tortuous in its course, and with numerous small bifurcations, complete.
Dorsal origin trifle behind last third in space between snout tip and caudal base, spine long, nearly straight, much longer than head or equals space between snout tip and hind edge of posterior projection Fig.
.5.
— Pseudaucheni pterus nigrolineatus Fowler.
Type.
of shoulder-girdle, greatly swollen at each side basally, and its hind surface with numerous antrorse serrae.
Dorsal radii slender, first but little shorter than spine and others rapidly graduated down.
Adipose fin inserted about last thh'd in space between dorsal origin and caudal base, fin 3 to latter.
Anal inserted about midway between base of first dorsal ray and caudal base, third simple ray longest, rays evenly graduated down with edge of fin entire.
Caudal well forked, a little longer than head, lobes slender, pointed, equal.
Pectoral depressed about t to ventral, with spine longest, then first ray but little shorter and others rapidly graduated down.
Pectoral spine with inner margin evenly and finely serrated antrorsely.
Ventral inserted about midway between hind end of posterior projection of shoulder-girdle and anal origin, fin about i to latter.
Vent close before anal.
Color when fresh in rum largely deep slaty-dusky or blackish, below whitish.
A pale or whitish streak along 1.
1. to middle of caudal base bifuracating on caudal base to form a semi-ocellus at base of each caudal lobe.
Posteriorly on caudal base this whitish bifurcation still margined dusky or blackish.
Head and casque above mostly tinted olivaceous-dusky.
Along each side of back, from below base of rayed dorsal about a dozen transverse series of very small white round spots, and in each series many as 4 or 5 sometimes, but only lower 2 of each at all distinct or conspicuous.
Iris brownish.
Lips whitish.
Barbels whitish basally, otherwise grayish, though maxillary a little more brownish.
Dorsal whitish, basally blackish, spine pale, and rays distally dusky.
Adipose fin whitish.
Caudal largely dusky to blackish, rays a little paler than membranes.
Anal whitish, anterior longer rays medianly slightly dusky.
Pectoral largely whitish, grayish above.
Ventral whitish.
Length Ih inches.
Type No.
37,876, A. N. S. P. Pedernales, Venezuela.
January 26th, 1911.
F. E. Pond ami Stewardson Brown.
Head 3| to 4; depth 4 to 5; D. i, 5; A. iii, 16 to hi, IS; snout 3§ to 3+ in head; eye 3f to 44; mouth width 2^; interorbital If to 2; length 7J to Sf inches.
The dorsal and pectoral spines are quite variable and all much shorter than in the type.
Nos.
37,877 and 37,878, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same date as type.
This species is related to P. guppyi Regan, but differs in the complete dark lateral band longitudinally below the 1.
1.
(Niger, black; linea, line; with reference to the complete black infero-lateral band . )
LQRICARIID^.
Plecostomus verres (Valenciennes).
Two from Pedernales on January 27th.
CALLICHTHYID^E.
Hoplostemum littorale (Hancock).
One adult from La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, on February 16th.
Hoplostemum thoraoatum (Valenciennes).
One small example with the last.
PCEOILIIDiB.
Anableps microlepis Mailer and Troschel.
Three from Pedernales on January 25th.
CICHLIDiE.
Astronotus ocellatus (Agassiz).
One from La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, on February 12th.
Color when fresh nearly uniform blackish, with bright orange circle a little less than orbit in size, a little above middle of caudal base.
TETRODONTID^E.
Colomesua psittacus (Schneider).
Three from Tucapeta, on the Rio Manimo, on February 22d.
One adidt from Pedernales on January 27th.
BATRACHOIDID^l.
Batrachoides surinamensis (Schneider).
One from Pedernales on January 27th.
Faunal Works.
Peters, Wilhelm.
1S77.
Ueber die von Herrn Dr. C. .Sachs in Venezuela gesammelten Fische.
Monatsb.
Ak.
Wis*.
Berlin, July 26, 1877, pp 469473.
Ernst, Adolfo.
1877.
Estudios sobre la Mora y Fauna de Venezuela Caracas, 1877, pp.
281-283.
Garces, Modesto.
1890.
Un Viaje a Venezuela.
Bogota, Roldan and Zamago.
(Not consulted.)
Pellegrin, Jaques.
1899.
Note sur les Poissons recueilles par M. F. Geay dans l'Apure et ses affluents.
Bull.
Mas.
Hist.
Nat., Paris, 1899, pp.
156-159.
Regan, C. T. 1903.
Description of a new fish of the genus Chaetostomus from Venezuela.
An.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(7), XI, 1903, p. 599.
1905.
Description of a new Loricariid fish of the genus Xenocara from Venezuela.
Novitates Zool., XII, Jan., 1905, p. 242.
Boulenger, G. A.
1903.
Description of a new fish of the genus Arges from Venezuela.
An.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(7), XI, 1903, pp.
601-2.
43S [May, A NEW ECPHORA OF THE CHESAPEAKE MIOCENE.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Ecphora parvicostata n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is shaped like the more globose forms of Ecphora quadricostata (Say); the umbilicus moderate, rapidly contracting inward, not so ample as in E. q. umbilicata (Wagner).
The last whorl has four very low, narrow spiral ribs; the surface above the upper rib slopes upward to the suture, immediately below which it is a little swollen.
The spiral ribs are stronger on the spire, where two are / &, Fig.
1.
— Ecphora parvicostata, natural size.
exposed, the suture revolving on the third.
Between the ribs there are irregular growth-wrinkles, but no spiral striae.
Length 82, diam.
70 mm.
(apical whorls wanting).
Three specimens of this form were found in a tray together with Ecj>Jmr<t quadricostata umbilicata (Wagner) and E. tricostata .Martin, in the Museum of the Academy, labelled " Ecphora quadricostata, .Maryland."
The former of these occurs in various beds of the Choptank formation, the latter in the underlying Calvert formation, so that no more definite locality and horizon can be given than Chesapeake Miocene.
While all of the Ecphoras are variable shells, yet in the large series in the collection of the Academy this species seems detached from those hitherto defined 1 by the extreme weakness of the ribs in the adult stage and the sloping shoulder.
The types of E. parvicostata are No.
1,514, A. N. S. P., collector unknown.
1 See' M aryland Geological Survey, Miocene, pp.
207-211.
1904.
