OF THE Academy of Natural Sciences OF VOLUME LXI 1909 philadelphia : The Academy of Natural Sciences LOGAN SQUARE 1909-1910 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, January 28, 1910.
I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1909 were mailed as follows : — Pages 1-48 mailed March 49-160.. 161-192.. 193-224 .
225-288.. 289-352.
353-368.. 369-400.
401-456 .
457-536.. 537-568.. 569 tiled March 1, 1909 " April 7, 1909 " April 28, 1909 May 15, 1909 " June 10, 1909 ' ' August 10, 1909 " September 23, 1909 " October 11, 1909 " Novembei • 4, 1909 " January 22, 1910 February 26, 1910 March 5, 1910 EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., Recording Secretary.
PUBLICATION COMMITTEE: Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J.
Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D,, LL.D., ex-officio.
EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
7/ n CONTENTS.
For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index.
page Banks, Nathan.
Arachnida from Costa Rica (Plates V, VI) 194 Barbour, Thomas.
On the True Status of the Genus Cacopoides (Plates XVII, XVIII) 401 Brown, Stewardson.
Notes on the Flora of the Bermudas 486 Crampton, G. C, Ph.D. A Contribution to the Comparative Morphology of the Thoracic Sclerites of Insects (Plates I, II, III, IV) 3 Fowler, Henry W. A new Species of Fish of the Genus Atopichthys, with Notes on New Jersey Fishes 406 Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. Action of Chemical Solutions on Bud Development : An Experimental Study of Acclimatization 57 The Vegetation of the Salt Marshes and of the Salt and Fresh-water Ponds of Northern Coastal New Jersey 373 Keele y, F. J. Microscopical Image Formation 177 Lyman, Benjamin Smith.
Scolithus linearis Burrows with Orifice Complete (Plate X) 296 Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., Ph.D. On the Spinnerets, Cribellum, Colulus, Tracheae and Lung Books of Araneads (Plates XI, XII, XIII, XIV) 299 Further Studies on the Activities of Araneads, II 548 Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D. Polychaetous Annelids from Monterey Bay and San Diego, California (Plates VII, VIII, IX) 23^ The Polychaetous Annelids dredged by the U. S. S. "Albatross" off the Coast of Southern California in 1904: I. Syllidae, Sphaerodoridae, Hesjonidae and Plryllodocidae (Plates XV, XVI) 321 Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D.
A new Species of Scalpellum from British Columbia 367 Unionidae of the Panuco River System, Mexico (Plates XXV, XXVI, XXVII) 532 New Land Shells from Mexico 540 IV CONTENTS.
** PAGE Pilsbry, Henry A., and James H. FeWiss.
Mollusca of the Southwestern States: III.
The Huachuca Mountains, Arizona (Plates XIX, XX, XXI) 495 A new Sonorella from the Rincon Mountains, Arizona (Plate XXII) 517 Pilsbry, Henry A., and A.
A. Hinkley.
Melanidae of the Panuco River System, Mexico (Plates XXIII, XXIV) 519 Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard.
An Orthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern United States.
Part II: New Mexico and Western Texas Ill An Orthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern United States : Part III.
California and Nevada 409 Smith, Burnett.
Note on the Morphology of Fulgur 369 Verrill, A. E., and A. Hyatt Verrill.
Notes on the Birds of San Domingo, with a List of the Species, including a new Hawk 352 Young, Robert T. The Occurrence of Bufo columbiensis east of the Rocky Mountains 298 OF 1909.
January 5.
Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
The reception of a paper intended for publication under the title "A Contribution to the Comparative Morphology of the Thoracic Sclerites of Insects/' by G. C. Crampton, Ph.D. (December 18, 1908), was reported by the Publication Committee.
The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: Finance.
— John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris, William D. Winsor and the Treasurer.
Publications.
— Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J.
Fox, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Library.
— Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Thomas Biddle, M.D., Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., and Henry Tucker, M.D.
Instruction and Lectures.
— Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, Witmer Stone and Dr. C. Newlin Peirce.
Committee of Council on By-Laws.
— Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Thos.
H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Chas.
B. Penrose, M.D.
The President is, ex-officio, a member of all Standing Committees.
John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on the vegetation of the West Indies as contrasted with that of Mexico and Central America, illustrated by lantern slides.
(No abstract.)
January 19.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-eight persons present.
The deaths of the following were announced : Lewis Haehnlen, a member, November 26, 1908; Joseph Wharton, a member, January 11, 1909, and Jean Albert Gaudry, a correspondent, November 29, 1908.
Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., made a communication on the power of flight in dragon-flies and its relation to geographical distribution, illustrated by lantern slides.
(No abstract.)
The following were elected members: Charles M. B. Cadwalader, George H. Clapp, Herbert Fox, M.D., Lewis W. Steinbach, M.D., and William Redwood Wright.
The following were elected correspondents: Albert Calmette, Ph.D., of Lille; John Mason Clarke, LL.D., of Albany; Sven A. Hedin, Ph.D., of Stockholm; Robert F. Scharff, Ph.D., of Dublin.
The following was ordered to be printed : A CONTKIBUTION TO THE COMPARATIVE MORPHOLOGY OF THE THORACIC SCLERITES OF INSECTS.
BY G. C. CRAMPTON, PH.D.
Although the thoracic sclerites are much used factors in insect classification and myology, there exists a most confusing lack of uniformity in the homologizing and terminology employed by the various writers upon these subjects.
This confusion, it would appear has largely arisen from the fact that each investigator has been content to confine his attention to one or two groups of insects, applying his own terminology as occasion arose, or, more frequently, naming the sclerites without sufficient comparison with intermediate forms to determine their true homologies.
As would be naturally expected, many new and important points have been brought to light in each of the orders, but they stand as isolated facts, rather than as generalities applying to the Hexapoda as a whole.
It is with the purpose of applying this knowledge to insects in general that a comparative morphological study has been here attempted.
Material.
The insects for study were collected in the United States, Europe and North Africa.
With these I was able, through the kindness of Prof. R. Heymons, to compare a number of rare specimens in the Berlin Museum, not otherwise accessible.
However, in so far as was possible, the commonest insects have been chosen to illustrate the types discussed, in order that any one wishing to verify the results might have no difficulty in procuring the necessary material.
Technique.
The binocular microscope was found indispensable to the performing of dissections, which were always made and studied under a liquid medium, the rays of an artificial light being concentrated upon the object by means of a bull's-eye condenser.
Glycerine or oil proved to be the most favorable medium for the examining of small objects, since they more readily remain in the position in which they are placed , when a denser medium is used.
In studying the musculature to determine the homology of the sclerites, the so-called "Halbierungs methode" was largely employed.
Usually a series of dissections was prepared, in each case an additional layer of muscles being removed, beginning at the mesal surface of the bisected insect.
The preparations thus made were fastened upon thin strips of mica, by means of photoxylin, and preserved in 80% alcohol.
Since both mica and photoxylin are transparent, the specimen may thus be easily studied from either side.
Only in the case of very small insects, or when it was difficult to follow the course of certain muscles, was it necessary to have recourse to reconstructions from microtome sections.
In dealing with strongly chitinized material, good preparations could be obtained only by the celloidin-paraffin embedding method, and even then it was frequently necessary to paint the upper face of the block with a thin film of mastix collodion before cutting each section.
For general purposes, staining with Grenadier's haemotoxylin, differentiating with picric acid, and counterstaining with eosin gave good results.
Literature.
The works of Swammerdam, Linne, and all authors before Illiger's time have but little interest other than from an historic point of view.
On the other hand such of the later publications as those of Chabrier, '20; Strauss-Diirkheim, '28; Kirby and Spence, '28; Westwood, '39; Burmeister, '32, etc., although very thorough and painstaking, are too confusingly varied in their homologizing and terminology to have •any very great practical worth.
The most scientific handling of the subject is to be found in the work of Audouin, '24, upon whose researches the modern terminology is based.
Since the appearance of this article, but little has been added to our knowledge of the comparative morphology of the thorax.
Of the more modern publications the following were found very useful in the preparation of this paper: For the homologizing of the sclerites, Kleuker, '83; Kolbe, '93; Brauer, '88; Amans, '85; Borner, '03; Verhoeff, '03; Janet, '98; Comstock, '02; Walton, '00, and Voss, '04.
For the terminology of the musculature, Luks, '83; Petri, '99; Breed, '03 ; Voss, '04, and Durken, '07.
For the wing venation, Adolph, '80; Redtenbacher, '86; Comstock, '98, and MacGillivray, '06.
Such of the works as are of a more particular interest will be discussed under those headings to which they especially refer.
1909.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
5 Terminology.
The modern terminology for the thoracic sclerites is based upon the epoch-making work of Audouin, '20.
Discarding the then prevalent conception of a binary division of the thorax according to the function ©f its organs of locomotion (as, for example, the collum and pectus of Knoch, 1801, the corselet and segment alifere of Chabrier, '20, or the maniand ali-truncus of Kirby, '28) this author demonstrated that the thorax is composed of three similar segments.
These three he designated as the pro-, meso-, and meta-thorax — terms variously attributed to Kirby, Latreille and Audouin, but which appear to have been first proposed by Nitzsch, '18.
Nitzsch, however, used the slightly different form protothorax instead of prothorax.
Each segment Audouin considered as composed of four regions, namely, a dorsal region or tergum, two flanks or "pleurae," and a ventral region called the sternum.
The sternum he regarded as consisting of a single piece, but for the flanks and tergum he described a number of subdivisions.
In the flank or "pleura," he recognized the following parts: two large lateral plates, the anterior of which he termed the episternum, and the posterior the epimeron; a narrow strip along the anterior margin of the episternum called the parapleuron ; a small plate containing the spiracle, called the peritreme; and a triangular sclerite articulating with the coxa, called the trochantine.
The tergum he considered as composed of four regions, lying one behind the other.
Beginning with the most anterior he termed these the prsescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum.
Some entomologists employ the word dorsum to designate the tergal region of a single segment, but it is far preferable, as Audouin has done, to apply this term to the whole dorsal surface of the insect.
The expression stigma is frequently used as synonymous with spiracle, especially in the German publications; but, as used by systematists, the word stigma denotes the chitinized cell in the costal region of the wings of certain Hymenoptera, etc.
It would, therefore, be preferable to use only the more exact and suitable term spiracle to denote the tracheal opening.
In most of the modern works there is a very great laxity in the use of the singular and the plural form of the word pleura.
For example, some authors speak of one flank as the pleuron and both together as the pleura, while others, following Audouin's example, choose the latinized forms pleura and pleurae.
One cannot employ the term pleura in both a singular and plural sense without creating confusion, and as the words are of Greek origin it would seem advisable to use only the etymologically correct forms, pleuron and pleura.
Recently the terms tergite, pleurite and sternite have been used interchangeably with tergum, pleuron and sternum.
One form of the word appears to be amply sufficient for all ordinary purposes, and it would be far more practical to use the term tergite for a subdivision of the tergum, pleurite for a part of the pleuron, and sternite for a sclerite of the sternum.
Thus the prsescutum, scutum, etc., would be tergites, the epimeron and episternum pleurites, and so on.
It is in this sense that these terms have been used in the text.
Theoretical Discussion.
Before taking up the subdivisions of the segments in detail, a brief review of the theories dealing with the formation of the thorax will serve to give a clearer idea of the nature of the sclerites.
Despite Newport's, '39, statement to the contrary, Audouin seems to have regarded the thorax as consisting of but three simple segments.
MacLeay, '30, however, and after him Newport, '39, proposed that each of the pro-, meso-, and meta-thoracic segments is in reality composed of four subsegments or annuli, which have become more or less completely fused together in the formation of the compact, highly specialized thorax.
The prsescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum, according to this theory, are the tergal portions of the four annuli, which are more closely fused in the pleural region and completely consolidated in the sternal region.
Hagen, '89, on the other hand, holds the view that each segment is composed not of four, but of three subsegments, each bearing a characteristic appendage.
The most anterior he terms the leg-bearing, the next following the wing-bearing, and the last the spiracle-bearing subsegment.
The more modern theories are founded upon the work of Patten, '90, who claims that the thoracic segments are composed of but two annuli.
From a comparison with the nervous system of Scolopendra, which he takes as a type, he concludes that in all Anthropoda the neuromeres, and consequently the segments themselves, are in reality double.
In support of this view, he states that "in all anthropods carefully studied two cross commissures have been found in each neuromere," thus indicating the double nature of these structures.
Furthermore, "in Acilius the median furrow between the cross commissures is similar to that found between the successive neuromeres."
"In Scorpio the neuromeres are distinctly double," and in such forms as Julus not only the neuromeres, but also the cardiac ostia, arteries, tracheae and legs plainly show the double nature of the somites.
Other indications of segmental fusion are two pairs of tracheal invaginations in each segment of Acilius, the bifurcated appendages of many Crustacea, and the bifid maxillae of insects, in which latter group monsters with double pairs of legs are of frequent occurrence.
All of the subsequent theories, though differing greatly in their point of view, lay great stress upon the fusion of segments traceable in the Myriopoda as an indication of what has taken place in the Hexapoda.
Banks, '93, regards the suture between the episternum and epimeron as the boundary between two leg-bearing subsegments.
Of these, the anterior or episternal subsegment, has retained its appendage fully developed, while the leg of the posterior or epimeral subsegment occurs only in a vestigial condition (the so-called styli found on the meso-, and meta-thorax of Machilis and other insects) or is completely fused with the episternal leg.
Walton's, '00-01, theory differs from that of Banks only in the fact that he regards the epimeral leg as represented by the so-called meron or posterior portion of the coxa, and in that he believes that each subsegment originally bore a wing.
According to this author, only the epimeral wing is fully developed, while that of the episternal subsegment exists only as a wing "fundament," and is represented by the squamulae, tegulae, etc., designated under the common term pterygoda.
Kolbe, '93, whose book appeared contemporaneously with Banks', '93, first publication, differs from Banks and Walton, in regarding the epimeron and episternum as parts of the same segment, and in addition he finds traces of other " complementary" segments in such forms as Locusta, (Edipoda, etc.
These complementary segments are especially well developed in the larvae of Lampyris, and here show a great similarity to the condition found in Scolopendrella — which Kolbe considers as an intermediate form between the rest of the myriopods and insects.
Verhoeff, '02-04, accepted Kolbe's theory, which he enlarged and worked out more in detail.
Believing that traces of three "Vordersegmente" or complementary segments (one in front of the pro-, meso-, and meta-thorax respectively) are to be found in such insects as Japyx, Embia, etc., he proposes that the typical hexapod thorax is composed of six primitive segments.
To the " Vordersegmente " he gives the names micro-, stenoand crypto-thorax.
Of these, the microthorax (the complementary segment in front of the prothorax) is the best developed, and occurs in a large number of insects.
In Japyx, etc., between each chief segment and its corresponding " Vordersegment," and also in front of each Vordersegment, are found certain minute sclerites which Verhoeff interprets as the remains of two "intercalary" segments.
Under these conditions, each of the three commonly accepted thoracic regions would in reality be composed of four subsegments (i.e., a chief and a complementary segment, each with its corresponding intercalary segment), thus giving a total of twelve subsegments for the thorax as a whole.
In this connection it may be remarked that Banks, '04, is entirely incorrect in stating that his theory is supported by the views of Verhoeff.
In reality the two are not at all alike, for, while Banks considers that the epimeron and episternum represent two annuli, Verhoeff expressly states that these two sclerites are parts of one and the same segment, in front of which he finds the additional so-called complementary and intercalary segments.
If then, with Banks, we consider the epimeron and episternum as representing two subsegments, a combination of Banks' and Verhoeff' s theories would give five subsegments in each thoracic region, or a total of fifteen for the entire thorax.
On the other hand, if MacLeay's, '30, contention, that the prsescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum represent four annuli, be correct, a combination of this with Verhoeff 's theory would raise the total number of thoracic subsegments to twentyone.
This reductio ad absurdum only serves to show to what extremes it may lead if we regard each of the sclerites which chance to be serially arranged as the remains of a vestigial segment.
Then, too, in view of the marked tendency toward the formation of separate chitinous plates which, as will be later discussed, takes place largely through mechanical causes, and for the most part without reference to any segmental arrangement, one cannot be too cautious in attributing to them a segmental value.
While it must be admitted that the "compound-segment" theory is a most attractive and not wholly groundless one, the following serious objections to the above cited theories may be made.
Thus, the mere occurrence of four regions in the tergum, or the fact that the pleuron is divided into epimeron and episternum, is not sufficient proof that the segment is compound, since such divisions frequently occur from purely mechanical causes, and wholly without reference to any segmental arrangement — as, for example, the division of each segment into tergum, pleura and sternum.
Again, one should not lay too great stress upon the conditions found in Myriopoda as an indication of what has occurred in Insecta.
A similar mode of life frequently leads to a remarkable convergence in structure, which would, however, have no value in a genetic homologization.
Furthermore, it must be borne in mind that insects are not descended from myriopods, but that recent Myriopoda, Crustacea, Insecta, etc., are groups of equal rank; and modifications in any direction may occur in each of the groups, quite independently of what occurs in any of the others.
Patten's argument, that the presence of two cross commissures in each neuromere is indicative of its double nature, loses its force when we consider that in many insects the last abdominal ganglion — which is regarded as the fusion product of a number of neuromeres — likewise contains but two cross commissures; whereas, if Patten's argument were correct, there should be as many commissures present as there are neuromeres entering into its composition.
With regard to the bifurcated maxillae of insects, it would appear far more reasonable to explain this condition as a secondary development, rather than the persistence of a primitive condition in such highly specialized appendages as the mouth parts; and Patten's other argument, that insect abnormalities with double pairs of legs are of frequent occurrence, has no weight when one considers the fact that there are likewise many vertebrate monsters with double appendages — yet no one considers this as a reversion to the primitive condition.
With regard to Kolbe's, '93, conclusions based upon the thorax of the larva of Lampyris, etc., it must be remembered that the larval form by no means represents the most primitive condition, but is rather an adaptation to its mode of life, as is so well shown in the hypermetamorphosis of Sitaris humeralis.
Again, in certain lepidopteran larvae — Sphinx for example — it is very easy to observe a marked tendency toward the formation of intrasegmental rings ; and this suggests that the extra constrictions in the soft larval bodies of Lampyris, Rhaphidia, etc., are probably some such superficial modifications, especially since no indications of any subdivision is indicated in such important segmental structures as the ganglia, tracheae, etc.
Banks', '93, theory, that the mesoand metathoracic styli of Machilis are rudimentary legs, has no support either from an embryological or a structural point of view, and he seems to have been unaware of Haase's, '89, far more probable explanation of these structures as modified setae.
Furthermore, Borner, '03, and Henneguy, '04, recently homologize these organs with the exopodite of the Crustacea, while Verhoeff, '03-'04, following Haase, '89, compares them to the coxal organs of Myriopoda.
The theory of Walton, '00, who considers the "meron" as a vestigial leg, seems likewise highly improbable.
From an examination of a large number of insects, it would appear that the meron is merely a portion of the coxa.
In such generalized forms as the Blattidse, it is not at all, or only partially, distinguishable from the remainder of the coxa; but in less generalized forms, as for example the Lepidoptera, it becomes more separated from the coxa, and in the highly specialized, swiftly-flying Diptera it is drawn quite into the pleural region, doubtless as the result of muscular tension.
Walton's other theory, that the pterygoda represent a pair of epimeral wings, is fully as improbable as his meron hypothesis.
The pterygoda bear absolutely no resemblance to wings in structure or in development, and, furthermore, no fossil remains show any traces of more than one pair of wings to each thoracic segment.
Walton has tried to evade these facts by suggesting that the tegulse, etc., are wing "fundaments."
With regard to this supposition, all that can be said is, that, so far as our present knowledge extends, the tegulse have fundamentally nothing in common with wings, and any attempt to discuss what they might develop into belongs wholly to the realm of speculation.
If, as Patten, '90, states, two pairs of tracheal invaginations occur in each segment of Acilius, this would indeed be a strong proof of segmental fusion.
In the adult Acilius, however, this is certainly not the case.
Embryos of this insect were not accessible, but in the embryos of Chrysopa, and the far more primitive Forficula, there are no traces of more than one tracheal invagination to the segment.
Furthermore, in all illustrations of other insect embryos that I could find, only one tracheal invagination is indicated in each segment, and there are no evidences of a double nature in the ganglia or any other important segmental structures.
This lack of embryological evidence is the chief argument against the hypothesis of segmental fusion, and until proof more convincing than that brought forward in support of the above cited theories can be offered, it would seem preferable to adopt a mechanical explanation — as, for example, muscular tension, etc.
— to account for the origin of the separate sclerites.
In attempting to apply this thery it must be borne in mind that the sclerites are not produced in a more or less haphazard fashion, as such extremists as Graber seem to think, but one can trace the systematic following out of a ground plan common to all three of the thoracic segments.
Lowne, '90, is quite incorrect in his statement that the prothoracic sclerites cannot be homologized with those of the other two segments, as a glance at the thorax of any Blattid would have convinced him.
His criticism of Audouin, '20, for taking as a type so "specialized" a segment as the wing-bearing one, is likewise wholly unjustified; for a comparative study can lead to no other conclusion than that the segment bearing the functional wing has undergone the least modification.
The pro thorax in many cases has been reduced to a mere collar, and, indeed, Brongniart, '90, finds that in certain fossil insects this segment bore a wing-like appendage which has since been lost.
The prothorax, then, cannot be chosen as a type, and in the segment which does not bear the functional wing — as for example the metathorax of the diptera — it is convincingly apparent that there has been a great fusion and reduction of both sclerites and muscles.
It is the wing-bearing segment, therefore, that more nearly represents the primitive condition, and if Lowne had not confined his attention to a specialized species of the highly specialized dipteran order, he would have seen how illogical are his conclusions for insects in general, based upon so modified a form.
General Description.
The Tergum.
— As has been previously stated, the structure of the prothorax is essentially the same as that of the other two segments.
This principle, however, may lead to a mistaken interpretation of the condition exhibited in the prothoracic tergum (or the pronotum, as Burmeister, '32, terms it) of certain insects.
Thus most text-books state that in the grasshopper's pronotum, the ring-like areas, produced by a series of transverse furrows, represent the prsescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum — as is figured by Brooks, '82, for example.
Theoretically this sounds very plausible, but a comparison with a large number of Saltatoria shows that these wrinklings are largely of a secondary nature.
Not only is the musculature quite different, but it is likewise the case that the four subdivisions of the mesoand metathoracic terga never occur as such regular, parallel rings.
In addition to this, in certain Acrididse (Dictyophorus for example) there are even more than four rings, and in some cases the transverse furrows which mark off these rings are interrupted, thus showing their secondary character.
The praescutum and postscutellum usually form what Kirby, '28, terms a phragma — that is to say an inward projecting process of the tergum.
Such a prsescutum or postscutellum has never been described for the prothorax, and it would appear that if such structures ever existed in the pronotum they have since been lost through reduction or fusion with the scutum and scutellum.
The Prcescutum.
— As has been stated, it is impossible to distinguish a prsescutum in the prothorax, but in the mesothorax this sclerite is frequently represented by a well developed phragma (fig.
1, Nj).
This phragma is apparently a portion of the tergum drawn inward and downward by muscular tension, and is separated from the scutum by the line of attachment of the intersegmental membrane, beneath which the phragma projects into the body cavity.
In his earlier works Audouin did not distinguish between the phragma and the triangular portion of the scutum immediately behind it (N 23 ), Fig-.
1— Macroxyela.
— Dorsal terming both together the prsescutum.
view of the mesothorax, showT ,, • i , i r n , t ing the subdivisions of the terIn tms lisa § e he has been followed by gumornotum.
For reference Packard, '98; but most authors use letters, see list at end of the , , , paper/ the word prsescutum as synonymous with Kleuker's protophragma — in other words the prsescutum is only the anterior phragma of the tergal region.
The prsescutum of the metathorax is frequently fused with the postscutellum of the preceding segment or it may be greatly reduced.
On this account Kleuker, '83, terms the second phragma the deuterophragma, whether it is composed of the mesothoracic postscutellum, the metathoracic prsescutum, or of both together.
It would seem preferable, however, to use Audouin's terminology, which is not only more exact, but also has the right of priority.
On either side of the mesothoracic prsescutum of such insects as Myrmeleon, Mantispa, etc., are two bridge-like plates lying just in front of the wings, and connecting the tergum with the upper portion of the episternum.
These plates appear to represent the so-called prsesegmental lamellse described by Voss, '04, in the thorax of Gryllus.
Since these plates are not internal lamellse, in most insects, but occur usually as external sclerites, they will be here referred to as the prsesegmental sclerites.
The Scutum.
— The thorax of Dytiscus, which Audouin, '24, chose as his type for insects in general, is too greatly modified to show the normal relations of the tergal subdivisions, but fortunately Audouin, '32, has given a more serviceable description in his translation of MacLeay's 1909.]
13 article on Polistes.
By comparing the thorax of Polistes with that of certain other less specialized Hymenoptera, such for example as Macroxyela, Tenthredo, etc.. in which the mesonotum has retained a ■comparatively primitive condition, it is an easy matter to apply Audouin's terminology to insects in general.
In the mesothorax of Macroxyela, Chrysopa, Myrmeleon, etc., the portion of the tergum just behind the prsescutum is composed of two regions : a median portion triangular in shape, with its apex directed caudad (fig.
1, N 2& ), and a larger portion surrounding the first laterally and posteriorly (A 7 ^).
The triangular median region of the scutum may be termed the mediscutum, and the remainder the parapsidoscutum (from MacLeay's, '30, parapsides, applied to two pieces separated off from this region in Polistes).
In his description of Dytiscus, Audouin regards the mediscutum as part of the prsescutum, while in his translation of MacLeay's work he speaks of the region corresponding to the mediscutum as the scutum proper, and likewise reckons the parapsides to the scutellar region.
The latter division is the only natural one, and has consequently been adopted in this discussion.
In the Hymenoptera, one can trace an extremely interesting series of changes in the scutellar region of the mesothorax.
Thus, if one examine the thorax of Macroxyela, Abia, Odynerus and Chrysis, in the order given, it will be seen that the apex of the triangular mediscutum (figs.
1 and 2, N 23 ) becomes gradually lengthened out, and pushes through that portion of the parapsidoscutum (N 2h ) behind it until it reaches the scutellum (N 3 ).
Its sides then begin to open out, and become nearly parallel.
By this process the formerly triangular mediscutum assumes a rectangular form (fig.
2, N 2a ), and divides the parapsidoscutum into two widely separated halves (N 2 ^ and AT 2 b), the parapsides of MacLeay, '30.
As shown by MacGillivray, '06, the wing veins of the Xyelidse show that this family is the most generalized of the Hymenoptera.
Consequently the thorax of Macroxyela is more primitive than that of Polistes — an opinion which is confirmed by a comparison with certain lower insects, such as Myrmeleon, etc.
If this be true, one is justified in assuming that the " parapsides ' Fig.
2.
— Eumenes.
— Dorsal view of the mesothorax.
A comparison with fig.
1 shows that the mediscutum (N" 2 a) has pushed through the parapsidoscutum (N" 2 b) and divided it into the two "parapsides" (N" 2 b and N" 2 b).
of Polistes are but portions of the mesothoracic parapsidoscutum.
MacLeay's suggestion, that the mesothoracic parapsides are but the prothoracic paraptera( !)
pushed back from their original position, must, therefore, be regarded as entirely untenable.
The parapsidoscutum is very closely connected with the organs of flight; and indeed its caudal portion appears to merge into the membranous anal region of the wing.
Along the sides of the scutum lie a number of small plates which are usually free, but may be more or less fused with one another or with the scutum.
Jurine, '20, has described six of these for Hymenoptera, but only three are of particular importance.
The first of these is found at the base of the costal region of the wing, and has been termed the antesigmoid by Amans, '85; the second, which Amans terms the "piece quadrilatere" (sigmoid), is situated at the base of the median region of the wing; and the third or dorso-terminal lies at the base of the anal region of the wing.
The structure and mechanism of these sclerites has been described in detail by Amans, '85, and Voss, '04, and need not, therefore, be further discussed here.
In addition to the above-mentioned sclerites, there occur two plates (one at the base of each wing) which have been variously termed squsemula, tegula, paraptera, pterygoda, etc.
Of these terms, Latreille's, '20, "pterygodes" or pterygoda appears to have the right of priority, and on this account has been here adopted.
In Gryllus, Voss, '04, has described a structure which he terms a " Hautpolster," but does not compare it with other insects.
This structure is beyond a doubt homologous with the pterygoda, and bears the characteristic hairs.
In the Trichoptera, although still somewhat "Polster"-like, it is more strongly chitinized, and in the Hymenoptera it forms a horny scale, covering the base of the wing.
In certain Lepidoptera the pterygoda are greatly developed and are densely beset with hairs.
Westwood, '39, has confused these with the patagia of the Lepidoptera, but they are doubtless quite different structures.
The Scutellum.
— Behind the scutal region lies a small, medianlysituated scutellum (fig.
1, N 3 ).
In form it may be somewhat semicircular, oval, shieldor wedge-shaped.
In the latter case its anterior end is embedded in the parapsidoscutum.
Its posterior margin is usually drawn out into a narrow strip on either side, and is continued in the posterior margin of the anal region of the wing.
.
This character is frequently very useful in determining the boundaries between the mesoscutellum and.phragma, or to distinguish[the mesoscutellum from the metanotum when these are partially fused .
Voss, '04, appears to consider the scutellum as part of the scutal region, and terms it the "unpaares mittelfeld."
This terminology, however, would be incorrect for three reasons: in the first place, because the sclerite in question does not belong to the region which Audouin, '24, calls the scutum, but is what he terms the scutellum; furthermore, the unpaired median region of the scutum, if such existed, would be the triangular mediscutum; and, lastly, there is no "unpaired" region, strictly speaking, in either scutum or scutellum, as the whole tergum was originally divided into two symmetrical halves by a median longitudinal suture.
This suture, according to Comstock, '02, represents the line of closure of the embryo, and it is along this line that the cuticle is ruptured at the time of moulting.
The median dorsal suture may be spoken of as the mid-dorsal suture, while the corresponding median ventral suture (which may represent traces of the neural groove) will be referred to as the mid-ventral suture.
The mid-dorsal suture is easily seen in such insects as the Sialidse, Perlidse, Tenthredinidse, Psocidae, Tipulidse, Trichoptera, etc.
In certain other insects, and some of these are very primitive, as, for example, the roaches and earwigs, one can find scarcely any traces of this suture in the mesothorax, since the tergal subregions have united to form a simple undivided notum.
However in the metathorax of some Blattidse, etc., one can distinguish faint traces of these parts.
This leads to the conclusion that the simple notum is the result of nonusage of the wings, or the peculiar mode of life of these insects, and would hence be a tertiary modification rather than a retention of the primitive condition.
1 An examination of the inner ridges, which serve as points of insertion for certain muscles, suggests that the tergum at one time may have been a single piece, but, though muscular tension, ridges were drawn inward, thus creating corresponding furrows or sutures on the exterior surface.
It is possible that the so-called parapsidal furrows, or sutures separating the medifrom the parapsido-scutum, were formed in this way, as is likewise the case with the furrow which separates the parapsidoscutum from the scutellum.
The latter furrow may be spoken of as the scutellar suture.
The Postscutellum.
— Behind the scutellum lies the postscutellum (fig.
1, N 4 ), which usually occurs as a phragma projecting more or less into 1 In the Apterygota, however, the simple, undivided notum doubtless represents the primitive condition.
the body cavity, or, as is the case in the Diptera, it may be largely external (see figs.
7 and 8, N t ).
The postscutellar phragma is usually much larger than the prsescutal phragma, and, while the latter is always closely connected with the scutum, the postscutellum may become almost completely separated from the remainder of the tergum.
As has been stated, the prsescutum and postscutellum usually occur as phragmas, and between them extend the dorsal longitudinal muscles.
It would appear that the arching of the mesothoracic region in such swift-flying insects as the Hymenoptera, Diptera, etc., is caused by the tension of these muscles.
In the Diptera, the mesothoracic postscutellum is greatly developed to furnish an attachment for these powerful muscles, and the whole mesothorax appears to have grown at the expense of the metathorax, which shrinks away, as it were, thus exposing the huge mesothoracic postscutellum.
Muscular tension is doubtless another factor causing the mesothoracic postscutellum to become external, since it would give rise to an arching upward of the tergum and the shifting forward of certain of the sclerites, as will be later discussed.
This external character and unusual development of the mesothoracic postscutellum in the Diptera caused Latreille, '20, to mistake it for the notum of the metathorax.
He consequently homologized the metathorax of the Diptera with the first abdominal segment (the "segment mediaire") of the Hymenoptera.
MacLeay, '30, committed a somewhat similar error in considering the first abdominal segment (which is closely connected with the thorax in pedunculate Hymenoptera) as part of the metanotum.
Consequently, that portion which he terms the postscutellum in Polistes belongs to the abdominal region.
The postscutellum 2 (fig.
7, N t ) of the TipulidsG is greatly developed and is distinctly divided into three regions — a median region which may be termed the mediophragmite (iV 4a ), and two lateral regions which will be spoken of as the pleurophragmites (N&).
Each of the pleurophragmites may be subdivided into a superior (iV 4 b s ) and inferior (A 7 4 bi) region, and the mediophragmite likewise may be divided into symmetrical halves by a continuation of the mid-ventral suture.
In certain insects in which the pleurophragmite is not connected with the pleura, it would appear that a portion of the pleurophragmite 2 Snodgrass, '08, frequently states that the Orthoptera have no postscutellum.
This is not the case in the Gryllidae, for example, as the postscutellum of Gryllus domesticus is quite well developed.
becomes separated off and remains connected with the epimeron.
This piece has been termed by Kolbe, '93, the "parapleure" in the Coleoptera, but this term is quite differently applied by other investigators.
Thus Voss, '04, considers "parapleura" as synonymous with episternum.
On the other hand Cuvier, '23, states that the "parapleural" are the "epimeres."
According to MacLeay, '30, the "parapleural" are the episterna.
Latreille, '20, considers the parapleurae as the "epimeres du metathorax. "
Lacordaire, '54, speaks of the epimeron and episternum together as the "parapleures," and erroneously ascribes this usage to Audouin.
According to Knoch, 1801 (who introduced the term), "parapleururum" would refer to the episternum; while the episternum and epimeron together were termed "parapleururum duplum."
If we are to abide strictly by the rule of priority, the term parapleuron would apply only to the episternum, in which sense it is used by Knoch, 1801, Kirby, '28, MacLeay, '30, Burmeister, '32, Fieber, '61, Voss, '04, and others.
However, in the sense used by Kolbe, '93, it is a very useful term, if so used that there would be no danger of confusion with the above cited usages.
Amans, '85, gives a terminology for the tergal subdivisions entirely different from that here accepted.
Thus he proposes the names prodorsum, dorsum, postdorsum and sub-postdorsum for exactly the same sclerites which Audouin, '24, had previously termed the praescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum.
Enderlein, '03, has recently adopted Amans' usage, but there appeal's to be no just cause for thus arbitrarily changing Audouin's terminology, which not only has the right of priority, but also has the advantage of widespread acceptance, and is not open to the objection mentioned by Audouin himself, namely, the term dorsum should be applied only to the entire dorsal surface of the insect, in contradistinction to the venter, ventrum or ventral surface.
As has been previously mentioned, Kleuker's, '83, terminology is inexact, in that he does not distinguish between the postscutellum of the mesothorax and praescutum of the metathorax, but terms them indiscriminately the deuterophragma.
Moreover, Voss', '04, substitution of the term postscutum for postscutellum is quite unwarranted, and it would appear far preferable to employ only the simple and appropriate terminology of Audouin, '24.
The Wing.
— The wing, as we have seen, is very closely connected with the parapsidoscutum, and indeed Packard, '98, believes that the wing fundaments are scutal structures.
They usually arise as sack-like folds of the body wall, and in insects with incomplete metamorphosis 2 appear as lateral outgrowths of the caudal margin of the tergum.
Thisis well shown in the development of the male Blattid, in which the elytron-like fore wings project from the posterior margin of the tergum, becoming more and more elongate at each moult, and finally develop into^chitinous structures in which the characteristic venation of the wings^is clearly shown.
This has led to the theory that the wings arose as lateral outgrowths of the margin of the notum, originally acting as a sort of parachute, but later developing into functional wings.
Another theory is that the wings and legs have a similar origin.
In a third theory, it is claimed that the wings develop from tracheal gills; and in yet another, it is held that the wings are modified spiracles.
It is not proposed to discuss these theories here at length, but, in objection to Gegenbauer's, '78, tracheal-gill theory, it may be remarked that Palmen, '77, has clearly demonstrated that the closed tracheal system is only a secondary adaptation to the aquatic life of the larva, and that aerial respiration was doubtless the primitive one.
On this account, it is hardly probable that wings have developed from tracheal gills.
Walton, '01, believes that the tegulse or pterygoda are rudimentary wings, but, as has been previously discussed, there is absolutely no proof for the statement that these structures are wing fundaments, either from an embryological or a structural point of view.
Comstock, '95, suggested that "the wing covers or elytra of earwigs and beetles probably correspond to the tegulse that is, they are a pair of side pieces of the mesothorax, the parapleura, greatly enlarged."
Walton has followed out this suggestion in his theory, and likewise adopts the view that the alulet-like structures under the elytra of Hydrophilus, etc., represent extra wings.
Comstock, '98, however, has shown that the elytra are the modified wings, and that the membranous structures beneath them are quite comparable to the alulae of Diptera, etc., and are even bordered by the "spring vein" characteristic of the alulae.
3 In the most generalized insects the tracheation follows the path indicated by the chief cuticular thickenings, which later become the veins for stiffening the wings.
The tracheation, therefore, is frequently of great value in determining the homology of the principal wing veins, and was much used by Comstock, '98, in the comparison of the venation throughout the orders.
The principal veins recognized by him are the costa, subcosta, radius, media, cubitus, and the anals.
3 See Sharp, '96.
This terminology, based upon that of Redtenbacher, '86, is the one usually accepted by modern systematists, and has consequently been here adopted.
The Pleuron.
— The two principal sclerites of the pleuron are the episternum and epimeron of Audouin, '24.
The later terms, antepleuron (episternum) and postpleuron (epimeron) of Amans, '85, or the coxopleure (episternum) and anopleure (epimeron) of Verhoeff, '03, since they are applied to exactly the same sclerites, must be regarded as superfluous synonyms.
The pleurit and subcoxa of Heymons, '99, will be later discussed under the heading Hemiptera.
However, it may be remarked of these sclerites — which have given rise to a great deal of discussion — that the pleurit is merely the epimeron, while the greater part of the subcoxa corresponds to the episternum.
The pleurites of the Blattidae are interesting from the fact that the epimeron and episternum appear to be merely portions of a single plate separated into two regions by a deep pocket-like infolding of the integument.
This suggests that the episternum and epimeron may originally have been one piece, but became separated by such an infolding of the integument — possibly due to muscular tension.
In this way there would be formed an external furrow, the so-called pleural suture, and a corresponding hollow ridge, the entopleuron or apodeme.
This would account for the fact that the apodemes of insects are hollow processes, and it is conceivable that the apodemes would thus arise as hollow invaginations of the body wall of the embryo, even though the muscular tension which originally developed the apodemes were not strongly operative at this stage.
There is a greal lack of uniformity in the usage of the terms apodeme and apophysis in referring to the internal or " entothoracic " processes.
As here used, the expression apodeme is applied solely to internal processes of the pleuron (i.e., the "entopleura"); while the term apophysis refers only to the internal processes of the sternum — the "entosterna."
The entopleuron may bear four inward projecting processes as follows: above, a pivot, or articulating process for the wing, which may be termed the alar process of the apodeme; and below this a process serving for muscle attachment (in such insects as Panorpa, etc.
), which may be termed the intermedian process.
The third is usually quite' a large process.
It may or may not extend as far as the furca (or forked apophysis of the sternum), but frequently abuts against the end of the furcal arm, and may even fuse with it.
This process will bereferred to as the adfurcal process.
The process just below it, which.
20 [Jan., forms an articulation with the coxa, has been termed the coxal process.
These'processes will be discussed more at length in a later article dealing with the comparative myology of insects.
The Epimeron.
— It is generally taken for granted that the epimeral and episternal regions of the thorax are not subdivided into smaller sclerites, but a glance at the mesothorax of Cicada (fig.
5) and Tipula (fig.
7) or the metathorax of Myrmeleon (fig.
4) and Chrysopa (fig.
3) will readily convince one that this is an error.
To illustrate, let us examine the thorax of the widespread insect Chrysopa.
For this purpose Chrysopa vulgaris is preferable to the somewhat commoner form Chrysopa perla, as the black bars and markings upon the thorax of the latter insect tend to obscure the sutures between the subregions.
In the epimeral region of Phassus (fig.
6), and most winged insects as well, one can readily find an elongate plate embedded in the softer cuticule directly under the posterior portion of the wing (EM C ).
This sclerite doubtless corresponds to the plate which Lowne, '90, designates as the "costa" in the blow-fly.
The term costa, however, has been applied to one of the wing veins, and this usage has been everywhere adopted.
It would, therefore, seem preferable to substitute the expression costal sclerite in referring to the above mentioned plate.
4 The costal sclerite bears an internal process, which serves as Fig.
3.
Fig.
3.
— Chrysopa.
— Lateral view of right flank.
antennae partially removed.
Fig.
4.
— Myrmeleon.
— Side view of right flank.
antennae partially removed.
Fig.
4.
Abdomen, legs, wings and Abdomen, legs, wings and the point of insertion for the epimeral wing muscles.
This process may be termed the endocostal process.
Behind the costal sclerites there frequently occurs a smaller sclerite which likewise serves as an attachment for the epimeral muscles.
This will be spoken of as the 4 Snodgrass, '08, terms this sclerite the "postepimeron," but since the plate in question is normally " supraepimeral " rather than "postepimeral," Lowne's term, slightly modified, has been here retained.
1909.]
21 posterior costal sclerite (EM 2C ).
It is usually very small and relatively unimportant.
In the metathorax of Chrysopa and Myrmeleon, and in the mesothorax of Cicada, etc., the epimeron is distinctly divided into an upper and lower portion.
The upper region will be referred to as the anaepimeron 5 or anepimeron (fig.
3, EM & ) and the lower region may be termed the kataepimeron or katepimeron (EM k ).
In the Raphidians, the suture between the anepimeron and katepimeron is partly obliterated, and in many other insects all traces of it have disappeared.
In Phassus scliamyl (fig.
6), the upper portion of the epimeron is membranous, thus suggesting that in other insects the anepimeral region may have originally arisen as a softening of the chitin, to give greater freedom of motion to the wing, and thus become differentiated from the remainder of the epimeron.
In the Muscinse, there is an arching of the mesothorax and a shifting forward of the sclerites — probably xx Fig.
5.
— Cicada.
— Lateral view of right flank.
Abdomen, legs, and wings shortened.
the result of muscular tension — so that the upper region of the epimeron (EM & ) is bent forward and lies upon the episternum (fig.
8).
It would appear that Lowne, '90, and other dipterologists have not been aware of this fact, for Lowne, Hewitt, '07, and a number of others mistake the anepimeron (EM a ) for the episternum and consequently designate the katepimeron (EM^) as the entire epimeron.
A comparison with one of the Tipulidse — in which group the sclerites are in their normal positions — readily shows the error of such a homologization.
In the Tipulidse, and less distinctly in the Ephemeridse, the pleurophragmite (or lateral region of the postscutellar phragma) is so closely connected with the pleuron that it appears to be a part of the pleural region (fig.
7, N 4 hs)', but, with the "parapleure" of the Coleoptera, it should be classed as a portion of the posts cutellum.
Connected with the lower portion of the epimeron in Chrysopa and a number of other insects is a sclerite termed the meron (fig.
3, C 2 ).
6 In an earlier publication (Crampton, '08) the term hyperand hypo-epimeron were employed to designate these regions, but, upon further consideration, it has seemed preferable to substitute the designations anaand kata-epimeron, which are not so confusingly similar as the former terms.
22 [Jan., This sclerite is of a variable nature, being entirely coxal in some insects, while in others it is entirely pleural.
The origin and nature of this sclerite will be more fully described in the discussion of the sclerites of the leg.
The Episternum.
— While the division into anaand kata-epimeron is shown in but few hexapods, a subdivision of the episternum into an upper and lower region is evident in a great number of insects.
Among these may be mentioned Sialis, Hepialus, Corydalis, Phassus, Bittacus, Cicada, Tipula, Mantispa, Hemerobius, Raphidia, Chrysopa, Myrmeleon, the Nemoptera, Trichoptera, and a large number of other insects from different families.
Beyond a doubt, if enough material could be examined, it would be found that indications of this division occur in some genera of every family.
Fig.
6.
Fig.
7.
Fig.
6.
— Phassus.
— Lateral view of right flank.
Head completely removed; wings, abdomen and two posterior legs shortened.
Fig.
7.
— Tipula.
— Lateral view.
Head entirely removed.
Wings, abdomen and legs shortened.
The epimeral subdivisions are best shown in Mantispa, but Chrysopa serves the purpose almost as well, and is a much commoner insect.
In Chrysopa, the upper region of the episternum — which will be termed the anepisternum (fig.
3, ES a ), is separated from the lower or "katepisternum" (ES^), by a narrow strip which may be spoken of as the median region of the episternum (ES m ).
In the thorax of Chrysopa this strip is very narrow, but in the thorax of Myrmeleon it is quite broad (fig.
4, ES m ).
In the metathorax of the Forficulidse, the upper portion of the anepisternal region is frequently cut off by a white, scar-like softening of the chitin of the episternum.
Verhoeff, '03, terms this piece the pteropleure.
6 While the anepisternum in most insects is in its normal position, the •The musculature of the anepisternum clearly shows that it is not to be homologized with the "pteropleure" alone.
1909.]
23 previously mentioned shifting forward of the anepimeral region in the Muscidse (fig.
8, EM a ) has displaced the anepisternum (ES a ) in the mesothorax.
This phenomenon has led to a great variety of interpretations of these sclerites in the Diptera.
Thus Brauer, '82, refers to the anepisternum (fig.
7, ES & ) as the entire episternum, and the katepisternal region (ES^) as the sternum.
Lowne, '90, mistakes the anepimeron (fig.
8, EM&) for the entire episternum, and, therefore, terms the anepisternum (ES&) the "lateral plate."
Hammond, '81, commits the same error and terms the anepisternum the parapteron.
The latter term, however, cannot be used in this connection, as Audouin, '32, made it synonymous with squamula, i.e., the tegula or pterygodum.
As first employed by Audouin, '24, the designation parapteron was applied to the anterior margin of the episternum.
Audouin himself seems to have had a great deal of trouble in homologizing this region with that of other insects, and finally solved the difficulty by applying the terms hypopteron and parapteron to MacLeay's, '32, squamula — with which they are therefore synonyms, and are so used by most authors.
On the inner surface of the anepisternum of Chrysopa, Corydalis, and a number of other insects, one can distinguish a lobe-like structure which is apparently formed by the inrolling of the anterior margin of the anepimeron, and serves as an attachment for the muscles extending to the trochantin and leg.
It is quite easy to follow the modification of this structure in various insects, as it gradually becomes more separated from the anepisternum, assumes a conical form, and is finally connected with the upper portion of the episternum by its apex alone.
This plate will be spoken of as the conus.
The Laterale.
— If one compare the mesothorax of a Blattid with that of a Forficulid, it will be seen that the so-called episternum is not the same in both.
In order to better understand the relation of the sclerites in these insects a hypothetical type (fig.
20) has been taken as a basis for comparison.
In the stage here represented, the epimeron (EM) is indicated as a distinct region, while the remainder of the pleuron Fig.
S. — Musca.
— Lateral view.
Head entirely removed; wings, abdomen and legs shortened.
A comparison with fig.
7 shows that in the Muscinse there is a shifting forward of the parts, as is indicated by the arrow.
24 [Jan., (ES' + L) consists of a single piece which may be designated by Heymon's, '99, term subcoxa.
7 However, it should not be taken for granted that in adopting Heymon's terminology, his theory of the origin of the subcoxa is likewise accepted ; for, as will be later discussed, it is very improbable that the subcoxa is the basal portion of the leg.
EM Fig.
9.
Fig.
10.
Fig.
11.
Fig.
9.
— Dolerus.
— External view of the right cervico-pleuron (i.e., union of the cervicals with the prothoracic pleuron).
This region is usually termed the prothoracic episternum.
Fig.
10 represents the anterior portion of fig.
9, seen from within to show the apodeme-like structure (CSad) separating the anterior lateral cervical (C»S 2 a) from the posterior lateral cervical (CS 2 p).
Fig.
11 represents the posterior portion of fig.
9 seen from within; showing the apodeme {AD') between the prothoracic episternum (ES') and epimeron (EM').
The trochantin (T) is represented as a portion of the subcoxa, though it is quite possible that it was originally a portion of the coxa, separated off by muscular tension, and united with the subcoxa as a secondary modification.
For the present, however, this point may be left out of consideration.
The first division of the subcoxa doubtless occurred along the line a c (fig.
20), thus separating the subcoxa into the episternum (ES) and a region which may be termed the laterale (L).
The further divisions in the laterale may occur in either of two directions — longitudinally or transversely.
A longitudinal division (i.e., along the line c i g) would produce the condition found in the cockroach (fig.
21, compare also pi.
Ill): that is, there would be a separation into an anterior region, which may be termed the anterior laterale 8 (L a ), and a posterior one, which may be termed the antecoxal laterale (L b ).
The latter term is a slight modification of Walton's, '00, "antecoxal piece," which has priority over Verhoeff's, '03, " katopleure. "
If, on the other hand, the laterale be divided, not longitudinally (as in the 'According to Enderlein, the "subcoxa" represents the trochantin; Borner considers it the equivalent of his merosternum; and Verhoeff homologizes it with his coxopleure and trochantin.
8 In a former publication this sclerite was termed the "pleuro-laterale."
cockroach), but transversely, i.e., along the line / e (fig.
20), we would have the condition found in the earwig (see fig.
19, compare also pi.
II).
The region nearest the episternum (ES) may be termed the episternal laterale (Lj), and that next the sternum (S) the sternal laterale (L 2 ).
In Forficula there is a third piece, the "hyposternal laterale" (L 3 ), which is not so deeply pigmented as the other two.
It is usually covered by the sternum, and in Anisolabis it appears to be fused with the sternal laterale.
The interpretation of the relations of these sclerites as given by Verhoeff, '03, differs very widely from the one just discussed.
This investigator homologizes the episternum of the earwig (fig.
19, ES) with the episternum plus the anterior laterale in the cockroach (fig.
21, ES + La).
The earwig's episternal laterale (fig.
19, L x ) he homologizes with the antecoxal laterale of the cockroach (fig.
21, L\>); and as the earwig's sternal laterale (fig.
19, L 2 ) would then have no corresponding sclerite in the cockroach, Verhoeff seeks to explain the sternal laterale as a "Vorplatte" or anterior plate which lies in front of the sternum in the pro thorax (i.e., a lateral cervical?
), but in the mesoand metathorax it is supposed in some way to become drawn around to the side of the sternum and take up a position between the latter and the antecoxal laterale (or "katopleure").
The musculature gives no indication of such a caudad migration of the lateral cervicals, or of any other " Vorderstuck," and it is difficult to see how such a theory can be supported.
On the other hand, it is quite comprehensible that a transverse, as well as a longitudinal division might occur, since a similar division is clearly traceable in the prothoracic trochantin of the Blattidse.
In the metathorax of the Dermaptera (or Euplexoptera) the sterna) laterale has apparently fused with the sternum (pi.
II).
In the prothorax of Anisolabis (pi.
II) the episternal laterale (L t ) has partially fused with the episternum, but traces of its outlines are still preserved.
The sternal laterale may be readily observed as a distinct sclerite (L 2 ), but both it and the episternal laterale (L 2 ) are ,, .... —,.
, Fig.
12.
— Pterostichus.
— Dorgreatly reduced m size.
The prothosal view of the me tathorax, racic sternal laterale (L,) is entirely showing the sternellum (N"\) , .
,.
r ,, • i i -x partially covered by two flaps distinct from the cervical sclerites of the parapsidoscutum.
(C*S 2X ), which lie in a plane below it; yet Borner, '03, confuses it with the cervicals, and homologizes it (the prothoracic sternal laterale) and one of the cervicals with the mesothoracic episternal laterale of the same specimen.
The remaining sclerites of the posterior lateral cervicals (CS 2X ) he homologizes with the sternal laterale of the mesothorax.
Borner likewise considers that the mesothoracic sternal laterale (pi.
II, L" 2 ) and episternal laterale (L'\) are subdivisions of the antecoxal laterale (pi.
Ill, Lb).
These views however seem quite untenable.
The longitudinal division of the laterale into the anterior and antecoxal regions is best shown in the cockroach (pi.
Ill), although it is clearly traceable in a number of insects.
In many Neuroptera, as for example Corydalis (fig.
17), Chrysopa (fig.
3), etc., the antecoxal laterale appears as a narrow strip (Lb) connecting the katepimeral complex 9 (Esk X ) with that portion of the sternum which will be later spoken of as the furci-sternum (S 3 ).
The anterior laterale (L a ) is usually quite large, filling the region between the episternum and the "Basi-sternum" (*S> 2 ).
In the thorax of Gryllus, Voss, '04, has described a sclerite which seems to correspond in part to the laterale.
He terms this sclerite the coxosternum, upon the ground that it represents the region so designated by Borner, '03.
This homologizing, however, is quite incorrect, for, as may be readily seen in his figures, Borner's "coxosternum" includes the epimeron, episternum and laterale.
Furthermore, Verhoeff had long before employed the term "coxasternum" to designate the fusion product of the coxae with the sternum.
The laterale, therefore, can hardly be termed the " coxosternum. "
The Trochantin.
— The small, somewhat triangular-shaped sclerite articulating with the coxa is designated as the trochantin, trochantine or trochantinus.
In the Blattidse (fig.
21 and pi.
Ill) the trochantin (T) is quite large, and in some species it is united for a short distance with the episternum.
In the Trichoptera (fig.
18) it would appear that the trochantin has fused with the katepisternal complex almost completely, its extreme tip alone remaining free.
The trochantin may thus completely fuse with the katepisternal complex, or, according to certain ■coleopterologists, it may fuse with the coxa.
In the prothorax of all the Blattidse that the writer could obtain the trochantin is transversely divided into two regions, the larger of which may be termed the trochantinus major and the smaller one the trochantinus minor.
This condition seems to be a characteristic of the Blattidse alone, and may prove to be of systematic value.
8 I.e., fusion product of the katepimeron, part of the trochantin, and a portion ■of the antecoxal laterale.
If one compare the mesothoracic trochantin of a Blattid (pi.
Ill) with that of Chrysopa (fig.
3) and Corydalis (fig.
17), it appears that the so-called trochantin of Chrysopa and Corydalis correspond only to the "minor" region in the cockroach.
The condition in Corydalis indicates that the minor region may become constricted off and form what is usually considered the entire trochantin in certain insects, while the major region fuses with the episternum — as it partially does in the pro thorax of the Blattidse.
In the cockroach this breaking of the prothoracic trochantin into two pieces is so evident that it is difficult to see how Sharp, '95, could have so confused these sclerites in his figure of Blabera gigantea {Cambridge Natural History, Vol.
I, p. 222).
He has turned the figure upside down, thus making it more difficult to see what he is trying to show, but it is quite plain that the portion he terms the entire trochantin is only the minor region, while his " epimeron( ?)
" is the Fig.
13.
— Lyda.
— major region of the trochantin.
The true epimeron ^oCTviSS^and is the sclerite he designates as a fold of the proprothorax.
notum.
In the mesothorax of Forficula (pi.
II) the trochantin is not transversely, but longitudinally divided into separate pieces (T & and T^).
In the Blattidse (fig.
21 and pi.
Ill) this division is indicated by a longitudinal suture — the trochantinal suture — which is present not only in the mesoand meta-thoracic trochantin {T" and T'"), but also in the major and minor portions of the prothoracic trochantin (T\ and T' 2 ), thus clearly indicating that the latter are but parts of a single piece.
Of the two regions marked off by the trochantinal suture, the posterior one will be termed the coxal trochantin 10 (pi.
Ill, T^) and the anterior region will be referred to as the antecoxal trochantin (T a ).
Comstock, '02, terms the antecoxal trochantin (TV) the antecoxal piece, and refers to the antecoxal laterale (T h ) as the second antecoxal piece.
In using the terms antecoxal trochantin and antecoxal laterale an attempt has been here made to retain Comstock's terms, and yet make it clear to what region the parts so designated belong.
It must be borne in mind that Comstock's, '02, antecoxal piece (i.e., the antecoxal trochantin) is not the same as Walton's, '00, antecoxal piece (the antecoxal laterale), and neither of these sclerites corresponds to 10 With reference to the designation of this sclerite, the term "accessory trochantin plate" (Snodgrass, '08), of which the writer was not aware at the time the above given terminology was proposed, has the right of priority.
the piece termed the "antecoxal piece" in Comstock's, '95, figure of Enchroma gigantea (page 503).
In the latter case, the antecoxal piece corresponds to that portion of the sternum which will be later referred to as the furci sternum.
The writer was not able to discover the original use of the expression, but as early as 1861, Leconte, in his classification of the Coleoptera of North America, states that a pair of "horny plates" is found embedded in the membrane of the neck, and terms these the "antecoxal plates."
The plates here referred to are evidently the cervical sclerites.
As has been mentioned, Comstock, '02, designates the antecoxal trochantin (pi.
Ill, T & ) the antecoxal piece.
On the other hand, he refers to the coxal trochantin as the entire trochantin.
The latter usage, however, is quite incorrect, for the coxaland antecoxal-trachantin together form the trochantin, and it is in this sense that the term will be used in the following discussion.
Corresponding to the external (trochantinal) Fig.
14.
— Strebsuture, dividing the trochantin into the coxal and lognathus (after antecoxal regions, is an internal ridge which may Janet).
— A com° ° parison with fig.
be termed the endotrochantinal lamella, and the 13 shows the way thorn-like process near it may be termed the endom which the cerc vico-propleura trochantinal process.
(C-Pl)^ become Svnonyms for the term trochantin are Voss', approximated on , n t~v the ventral sur'04, prsecoxal plate, and StraussDurkheim s, face and com> 2 8, rotule.
The term prsecoxal plate has little pletely conceal .
the presternum.
to recommend it, but it would have been much preferable if entomologists had adopted the term rotule ; for the latter term better expresses the function of this sclerite, is not borrowed from vertebrate anatomy, and is not so confusingly similar to the term trochanter, as is the case with Audouin's trochantin.
However, the name trochantin, or the latinized form trochantinus, given it by MacLeay, '30, is a very useful term and has received too wide an acceptance to attempt to change it.
Between the trochantin and the coxa lies a very small chitinous plate, the complementary coxal sclerite, 11 or "complementary plate" (Borner, '03), which bears an internal process, the complementary process, to which are attached certain muscles extending to the episternum.
This small sclerite is frequently fused with the coxa, and the complementary process then appears as a process of the coxal margin.
11 The accessory coxal plate of Snodgrass, 'OS.
The Leg.
— The coxa is very closely connected with the pleuron in certain insects, and indeed Miall and Denny, '86, consider that the pleural sclerites are "two basal leg-joints which have become adherent to the thorax."
From his embryological studies, Heymons, '99, also adopts this view in designating the "subcoxa" as the basal portion of the leg.
Borner, '03, at first considered the pleural sclerites as plates which have become separated from the sternum, but he later adopted Heymons' view.
The theory that the pleural sclerites are basal leg-joints appears hardly tenable.
In those insect larvae which have long, well-developed legs (as for example Corydalis, Carabus, etc.)
it is necessary that the muscles have some firm support, and it is doubtless the stimulus of the muscular tension which causes the formation of certain sclerites in the soft integument of the larva.
This is certainly a far more reasonable supposition than that the epimeron and episternum would be drawn up from a hard chitinized leg region into a soft pleural region, before the latter region were sufficiently resistant to furnish the needed support for the muscles.
In the above mentioned insects, the pleural sclerites first appear near the base of the leg, and it is quite possible that these would appear to arise from the basal region of the embryonic leg mass, as it is impossible to say just where the leg begins and the pleuron ends in the embryonic stages.
There is such a shifting, flattening, and distorting of the parts in those forms upon which Heymons bases his conclusions, that he was deceived into considering that the mesothoracic subcoxa (fig.
16) represents the epimeron and episternum together, whereas, in reality, it represents the mesothoracic episternum, laterale, and perhaps the trochantin.
On the other hand, the "pleurit," which he considers as representing the metathoracic pleurites, does not belong to the metathorax at all, but is merely the mesothoracic epimeron (fig.
15, EM").
This mesothoracic epimeron is thrown into a fold by the shifting forward of the region behind it and overlaps the metathoracic epimeron (EM'"), which escaped Heymons' attention altogether.
These facts serve to illustrate how easily the embryonic regions may be confused ; and when one takes into consideration that even in the larval stages of the above mentioned insects, the pleural sclerites are first formed so near the base of the leg, it is readily comprehensible that Heymons could have been misled into considering the pleurites as basal leg-joints, since in the embryonic stages (upon which he bases his conclusions) there is no sharp distinction between the leg and pleural region.
It is perhaps worth mentioning in this connection that the katepisternal complex, the antecoxal laterale, the furci-sternum (described later), and the katepimeron form a closed ring about the base of the leg, and might consequently be taken for a portion of the leg region; but, for the reasons above stated, this view would be extremely improbable.
Hansen, '93, compares the trochantin to the coxopodite of the Malacostraca, and homologizes the coxa with the basipodite.
He likewise adopts the views of Wood-Mason, '79, and Jourdain, '88, who propose that the styli on the mesoand meta-thoracic coxae represent the exopodite of the crustacean leg.
In a recent article Bonier has again brought this theory into prominence.
Henneguy, '04, who likewise compares the insect leg with that of the Crustacea, differs from the above-mentioned investigators in that he maintains that the stylus corresponds to the epipodite — not to the exopodite.
He argues that if the coxa corresponds to the basipodite, the stylus or coxal appendage must correspond to the epipodite or basipodite appendage, and not to the exopodite, which is the appendage of the coxopodite.
The above-mentioned views seem hardly probable, for all indications point to the fact that insects are not descended from aquatic, but from terrestrial ancestors.
Palmen, '77, has demonstrated that the open tracheal system for aerial respiration is the primitive one, and it may be added that in the development of the Ephemerid embryo, the primordia (or fundaments) of the spiracles may be observed even in the germinal streak.
The aquatic life of the larva?, then, must be regarded as a secondary adaptation; and, therefore, one can hardly attempt to homologize the styli of the insect leg with the exopodite or the epipodite of the aquatic Crustacea.
Banks', '93, theory that the styli are vestigial legs has no foundation other than the extremely improbable supposition that each segment is double.
In all probability these structures are modified sensory hairs, or they may be comparable to the movable spine-like structures found upon the legs of certain insects.
Verhoeff, who adopts Haase's, '89, view regarding the styli, homologizes them with the coxal organs of the Myriopoda.
As has been stated, Walton, '00, believes that the meron is a vestigial leg, but serious doubt is cast upon this theory by the fact that one can trace the formation of the meron as a coxal sclerite, which is either not distinguishable from the rest of the coxa, or at most indistinctly traceable, in the lower forms, but becomes detached by muscular tension in the highly specialized insects.
The view that the tension of the muscles attached to it causes the meron to become detached is 1909.]
31 strengthened by the fact that it occurs as a distinct sclerite only in the segments which bear functional wings.
Thus it seems to be absent in the prothorax of all the insects which the writer has studied, and no traces of it are to be found in the metathorax of the Diptera, although it is well developed in the mesothorax of these insects.
Since the mode of life is the same among insects and myriopods, and as the legs of both are used in the same manner, it is but natural that there should be a very marked convergence in the structure of these organs.
This, however, is not sufficient ground for attempting to change the terminology applied to the segments of the insect leg, as Verhoeff, '03-'04, has done.
Even if it could be demonstrated that the joints of the insect leg can be homologized with correspondingones in the myriopods, the terminology for the leg segments of the myriopods should be adapted to that of insects, as the latter hasthe right of priority and of widespread acceptance.
Fig.
15.
Fig.
16.
Fig.
15.
— Nepa.
— Ventral view showing half of the sternum and the corresponding pleuron of the mesoand meta-thorax and the first three abdominal segments.
The flap-like mesothoracic epimeron {EM") is raised up and bent forward to show the metathoracic epimeron (EM'") which lies under it and was overlooked by Heymons.
The corner of the metathoracic epimeron (EM'") is likewise slightly raised to show the first abdominal segment which is hidden by the epimeron, and does not appear in Heymons' figure of Nepa (fig.
16).
Fig.
16.
— Heymons' figure of Nepa, slightly modified.
The dotted lines indicate the region corresponding to that shown in fig.
15.
Of the leg segments only the coxa and trochanter need be here considered.
The coxa is frequently divided into two regions, as has been previously described.
Verhoeff's, '03, term eucoxa (fig.
3, C y ), applied to the anterior coxal region, seems preferable to Walton's, '00, "coxa genuina," but for the posterior coxal region Walton's term meron has been here adopted.
A narrow marginal area, the "coximarginal" sclerite, is frequently separated from the rest of the coxa by a suture, as is well shown in the Blattidae (pi.
Ill, C m ), Corydalis (fig.
17), etc.
It is questionable whether this region corresponds to the area designated as " C m (?)
" in fig.
18 of the Trichopteran thorax, but the matter is of relatively slight importance.
That portion of the furci-sternum later spoken of as the pedal region (fig.
18, S 3& ) frequently occurs as an elongate wedge-shaped process extending into the coxal region.
In such cases the furci-sternum is so closely connected with the coxal region that the coxa usually loses much of its freedom of motion.
This loss, however, is usually compensated by the greater mobility of the trochanter.
Although the trochanter appears to consist of but one joint in many insects, the second joint is frequently hidden within the coxa, so that the "ditrochleate" condition is much commoner than is generally supposed.
This fact has led to the formulation of the theory that one of the segments of the trochanter represents a second joint of the "meral" leg.
As the author of this theory has not yet published his results, the improbability of such a hypothesis will not be discussed here.
The question as to whether or not the trochanter (or any part of it) is the upper portion of the femur, and the different theories regarding its homology, have but little bearing upon a study of the thoracic sclerites, and need not be further gone into here.
The Sternum.
— MacLeay, '30, as has been stated, proposes that each segment is composed of four subsegments or annuli.
Arguing from the fact that the tergum.is divided into four regions, he states that the sternum likewise "ought to be" divided into four regions, and proposes for these the names prsesternum, sternum, sternellum, and poststernellum.
He has not figured, described or even seen these regions, but merely assumes their existence because of the condition found in the tergum.
Indeed, Newport, '39, who adopts MacLeay's theory, states that these regions cannot all be found in any living insect, as the specialization and fusion of the subsegments have gone too far to leave any traces of the subdivisions in the sternum.
Despite Newport's statement to the contrary, four distinct subdivisions of the sternum are to be found in certain insects, as for example in the thorax of Nemura (pi.
I).
The terminology proposed by MacLeay has not been adopted for the following reasons: the names presternum, siernum, sternellum, and poststernellum imply a relation between these subdivisions of the sternum and the prsescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum, as MacLeay intended 1909.]
33 that they should.
This relation, however, does not exist, for these subdivisions do not represent four annuli, as assumed by MacLeay.
Furthermore, there is this very serious objection to MacLeay 's terminology, that the designation sternum cannot be applied to a subdivision of the sternal region, since Audouin employed the name sternum to designate the whole ventral region of the segment, and it is in the latter sense that the term is everywhere used.
Lastly, since MacLeay has neither seen, figured nor described these regions, but merely assumes their existence based ipon a fallacious hypothesis, his terminology is not binding.
Comstock, '02, although he makes no mention of MacLeay, has attempted to apply MacLeay's terminology to the sternal region.
UnFig.
18.
Fig.
17.
— Corydalis.
— Ventral view of mesothorax.
Sternum and pleura spread out in one plane.
Legs shortened.
Fig.
18.
— Hydropsyche.
— Ventral view of proand meso-thoracic sterna and pleura, spread out in one plane.
Only the basal portions of the coxarepresented.
fortunately both of Comstock's figures (pp.
24 and 25) are of the metathoracic segment, and what he terms the sternellum is the first abdominal sternum.
This accounts for the fact that he found no "poststernellum."
The Presternum.— -The name presternum is the only one of Comstock's and MacLeay's terms here adopted, since only the presternum in Comstock's figure of Pteronarcys (p. 24) has a corresponding region in the sternum of Nemura (pi.
I, S t ).
This term, however, has been adopted without reference to Meinert's, '67, presternum, mentioned in his description of Japyx.
The Japygidse are such rare insects that the writer was unable to procure a specimen for dissection, and it is therefore impossible to state here, with any degree of certainty, to what extent the presternum 3 and poststernum of Meinert correspond to the regions here designated as the spiniand furci-sternum.
Meinert gives no description of his prsBand post-sternum, other than the brief statement that they are chitinized double folds lying between the segments.
Verhoeff, '04, and Borner, '03, make no attempt to employ Meinert's terms in their figures, but from a study of these illustrations one might hazard the opinion that Meinert's presternum does not correspond to Comstock's, '02, presternum at all, but is probably the furci-sternum, later described.
In all probability the presternum is merely a portion of the large sternite lying behind it, and exists 'as a separate piece in but few insects.
It is usually the first sternite to disappear, and its small size makes it of relatively tittle importance.
The Basi-sternum.
— Just behind the presternum is a large sternite forming the greater part of the sternal region.
This sclerite, which may be termed the basi-sternum (pi.
I, S 2 ), is frequently fused with the anterior laterale and katepisternal complex to form the "sternopleura" of Osten-Sacken, '84.
The basiand furci-sternum are visually symmetrically divided by a longitudinal furrow — the " midventral" suture.
The Furci-sternum.
— Immediately caudad of the basi-sternum is a somewhat smaller sternite, which bears the furca or internal forked process of the sternum.
On this account the sclerite in question has been termed the furci-sternum.
In the swiftly flying insects there is usually an internal "mid-ventral lamella," or ridge corresponding to the mid-ventral suture, and as this is frequently continuous with the shaft of the furca, it may appear as though the base of the furcal shaft arises in the basi-sternum.
This, however, is only a secondary modification, for in the primitive forms the furci-sternum alone bears the paired apophyses.
Externally it is a comparatively easy matter to distinguish between the basi-sternum and the furci-sternum, even when these are not entirely separate sclerites, as traces of the "intrasternal" suture (which separates the basi-sternal from the furci-sternal region) are retained in a great number of insects.
In the Gryllide the furci-sternum (which is very closely connected with the basi-sternum) is bent inward, so that its surface forms an angle with that of the basi-sternum.
This bending inward of the furcisternum causes it to be concealed by the sclerites which follow it and this doubtless accounts for the fact that Voss, '04, did not mention this region in his description of the thorax of Gryllus.
The furcisternum has been figured in the Coleoptera, but no attempt has been made to designate it by any especial term, except that Comstock, '04, terms it the antecoxal piece.
This, however, is not the antecoxal piece of Comstock, '02, nor of Walton, '00, and most assuredly does not represent the antecoxal plates of Leconte, '61.
In the Blattidae (pi.
Ill), the furci-sternum of the mesoand metathorax is somewhat "T "-shaped, and the internal paired apophyses are borne one at the end of each arm of the "T".
Each of the outer openings of the hollow apophyses is covered by a sclerite which may be termed the "tegmentary sclerite" (pi.
Ill, Tg).
The function of these "tegmentary" sclerites is doubtless to keep dust, etc., from collecting in the hollows of the apophyses.
Miall and Denny, '86, state that there is no ante-furca (i.e., prothoracic furca) in the cockroach; nevertheless paired apophyses which correspond to the mesoand meta-thoracic furca are to be found in the prothorax, if sufficient care be taken in searching for them.
The specimen should be slit along the mid-dorsal suture, placed in 10% caustic potash, and left in the paraffin oven until the soft parts can be easily washed away by driving currents of water against them with a pipette.
If the soft parts are removed with forceps the apophyses, which are very delicate and somewhat transparent, are usually plucked off before one discovers them.
This doubtless accounts for the fact that these structures were not found by Miall and Denny.
The prothoracic furci-sternum of Nemura (pi.
I, S' 3 ) is divided into two pieces; in the Trichoptera (fig.
18, S' 3 ) it is a single plate, drawn out longitudinally, while in the Blattidse (pi.
Ill, S' 3 ) it is a somewhat oval transverse sclerite.
In the mesoand meta-thorax, the furci-sternum is frequently separated from the basi-sternum merely by the "intra-sternal" suture.
The furci-sternum is usually connected with the katepimeral complex by the narrow antecoxal laterale (fig.
3, L b ), and may likewise be connected with the epimeron by a bridge-like strip extending behind the leg.
In the Trichoptera (fig.
18) this strip (S" 3 -Em") dips below the surface of the body, and reappears just before it is joined with the epimeron.
In those insects in which the coxal cavity is enclosed posteriorally the coxae are frequently closely approximated, and that portion of the furci-sternum between them is folded together.
This is well shown in the Trichoptera (fig.
18), and in these insects the "pedal region" of the furci-sternum (S" 3p ) extends along the mesal surface of the coxa, with which it is very closely connected.
It is perhaps of some interest to note that in the Trichoptera the pleural suture is continued in the "coxal suture" (between the meron and eucoxa), and is extended through the pedal region of the furcisternum (i.e., the "furcal suture") and up the other side of the insect.
With the "intertergal" space (between the postscutellum and the remainder of the tergum) it may separate the segment into two rings, but, from reasons previously given, it is not at all probable that this indicates that the segment is double.
Behind the furci-sternum (S' 3 ) in Nemura (pi.
I) are two plates (^pf) which may be termed the post-f ureal sclerites.
These occur in but few insects, and are relatively unimportant.
The Spini-sternum.
— Behind the furci-sternum is a smaller sternite, which bears an internal unpaired apophysis, the "spina," and may hence be termed the spini-sternum.
This sclerite varies greatly in size and shape, and is never very large.
The prothoracic spini-sternum is the most constant, and occurs in a large number of insects.
In the Blattidse (pi.
Ill, £' 4 ) it is very long and narrow, while the prothoracic spini-sternum of Nemura (pi.
I, S\) is drawn out transversely into two wing-like processes.
In the Trichoptera (fig.
18, S\) and Xyelidse it is very small, and in many insects it is represented only by the endoskeletal "spina" or unpaired pophysis.
The prothoracic spini-sternum (pi.
Ill, S' 4 ) usually lies just in front <of the basi-sternum of the mesothorax, being much nearer to the mesothorax than to the prothorax.
Again, in certain insects (Corydalis for example) the mesothoracic spini-sternum is united with the metathorax, but in each case the musculature clearly indicates to which segment the sclerite in question belongs.
In the Blattidae (pi.
Ill, S'" 4 ) the metathoracic spini-sternum is a distinct sclerite, but in Nemura (pi.
I, £'" 4 ) it is united with the furcisternum, and in most insects it is indistinguishably fused with the latter sternite.
As has been mentioned, the prsesternum is usually fused with the basi-sternum (except in a few insects such as Nemura, Ectobia, etc.)
and the spini-sternum frequently lies directly in front of the basi-sternum.
On this account it would seem very probable that Meinert's, '67, prsesternum corresponds to the spini-sternum, rather than the prsesternum of Comstock, '02, and the writer.
This, however, is mere supposition, and cannot be determined until specimens of Japyx can be obtained for dissection.
Amans, '85, divides the sternum into two regions, the anteand poststernum.
The former of these two regions may possibly correspond to the prseand basi-sternum, and the latter to the furciand spinisternum, but it is impossible to determine this from Amans' descriptions, as he gives no boundaries for his two regions, other than the statement that they are separated by the coxal cavities.
His poststernum is apparently not the same as Meinert's, '67, and is surely not the poststernum of Petri, '99, as the latter sclerite is the meron.
Amans' division of the sternum would be of no service in such insects as Nemura, or in the Blattidae, where the coxal cavities do not divide the sternum at all.
On this account, and because the sternum is not divided into two but into four sternites, Amans' terminology will not be further considered.
Voss, '04, states that the spini-sternum corresponds to Comstock's, '02.
sternellum; but, as we have seen, Comstock's, '02, sternellum is the first abdominal sternum — except in the neck region, where his sternellum and sternum are doubtless detached portions of the presternum.
If Comstock had found the four sternal regions, he would doubtless have termed the spini-sternum the poststernellum, as he states (p. 25), "A poststernellum corresponding to the postscutellum has not been observed."
The Intersegmentalia.
— In front of the laterale, on either side of the mesothorax of such insects as the Trichoptera, Xyelidae, etc., is a sclerite which is doubtless a detached portion of the laterale.
This sclerite may be termed the prselaterale (fig.
18, 7 X ).
Surrounding the spiracle is a number of small plates, the "peritremal sclerites," and between them and the pleuron of the preceding segment is a detached portion of the pleuron, which may be termed the post-pleural sclerite (7 P ).
All of the above-mentioned sclerites will be included under the general term intersegmentalia, as they lie in the intersegmental membrane, more or less separated from the segment to which they belong.
Voss, '04, claims that the musculature of the first and second thoracic spiracles indicates that they belong to the segment behind which they are situated — that is, that the first is the prothoracic spiracle, and the second is the mesothoracic one.
The third spiracle Voss assigns to the first abdominal segment, as do most other investigators.
Heymons, '95, concludes from his embryological studies that the spiracle does not belong to the segment preceding it, but to the segment in front of which it is located.
He states that in the early embryonic stages, the primordia of the spiracles lie in the anterior portion of their corresponding segments; as development proceeds, the spiracle ma} 7 migrate forward and become attached to the segment in front of it, but this is only a secondary modification.
Palmen, '77, proposed the theory that the first thoracic spiracle may 38 [Jan. , Fig.
19.
Figs.
19, 20 and 21.— ^Represent the ventral and lateral sclerites of a segment of the Cursoria (Orthoptera) spread out in one plane.
Fig.
20 represents a hypothetical starting point in the formation of the pleural and sternal sclerites of these insects.
The dotted lines indicate where divisions may occur.
Fig.
19 represents the modification found in the Forficulidae, and Fig.
21 that found in the Blattidae.
The diagonal lines in the basi-sternum (fig.
21) illustrate the condition found in the prothorax of Ectobia.
1909.]
a 39 Fig.
21. n x 5 3 be prothoracic in some insects and mesothoracic in others, but this view does not seem to have a very wide acceptance.
The embryological proof seems to be in favor of Heymons view, and it is certainly the case that the musculature of such insects as the Blattidse indicates that the spiracles belong to the segment behind them rather than to the preceding one.
It is possible, however, to designate the spiracles as the first thoracic spiracle, second thoracic spiracle, etc., without specifying to which segment they belong, and this usage has been here adopted.
In the thorax of Japyx there occurs an extra spiracle, which has given rise to much discussion, but all speculation as to its homology can be of no value until the musculature and embryology of Japyx have been carefully studied with a view to determining this point.
In insects other than Japyx, most investigators now agree in designating the third spiracle as the first abdominal one.
It would appear that Latreille's, '20-'22, designating the first abdominal segment the "segment mediaire" is responsible for much of the dispute which later arose concerning this segment, especially in the Diptera and arculeate Hymenoptera ; and it is hard to understand why certain modern systematists — Schmiedeknecht, '07, for example — persist in using Latreille's confusing terminology.
The first abdominal segment is the first abdominal segment, no matter where it is located, and if it be designated by its proper name, there can be no dispute as to its homology or that of its spiracle.
The Cervictjm.
— Between the head and the prothorax is a narrower neck region whose softer walls give a greater freedom of motion for the head.
Embedded in the membranous integument of this region are a number of plates which serve to strengthen its walls, and furnish an articulation for the head (pi.
Ill, C sv C s2 , etc.).
The number of these sclerites varies greatly, being the most numerous in the Orthoptera, while in certain Coleoptera they are entirely wanting.
The neck region has been designated as the "Mikrothorax" by Verhoeff, '02, who at first considered this as a fourth segment of equal rank with the pro-, mesoand meta-thorax.
< There appear to be very grave doubts as to the correctness of this view, and' since every investigator who has dealt with this subject terms the region in question the "neck," "Nacken," "cou," etc., according to the language in which the article is written, it seems preferable to designate the neck by the Latin term cervicum — a purely typographical designation, and one which is already implied in the expression "cervical plates," applied to its sclerites for more than eighty years.
As has been stated, Verhoeff, '02, terms the cervicum the "Mikrothorax," and at first considered it a fourth thoracic segment similar to the promeso-, and meta-thorax.
Later, however, he designated this "Mikrothorax" as one of the so-called complementary segments (" Vordersegmente") which he states can be found in front of each chief segment of the thorax; and, in addition, he described the remains of an intercalary segment in front of each of the above-mentioned thoracic segments.
In the earlier works there has been much speculation as to the origin of the cervical sclerites, and the question is still a very hotly debated one.
The first of these theories is that of Strauss-Durkheim, '28, who states that in the neck region of the Forficulidse, one can find traces of the sterna and pleura of two segments formerly existing between the prothorax and the head.
He had thus long ago expressed exactly the same theory, founded upon the same insects, that Verhoeff uses to illustrate his microthorax theory, yet Verhoeff states that "es klingt zwar sonderbar, dass bei den von Hunderten von Forschern studierten Insekten dergleichen (d. h. ein vorn am Thorax befindliches bisher ubersehenes segment) noch gefunden werden soil, ist aber tatsachlich so."
The second theory is that of Huxley, '85.
In describing the neck plates he says: "I think it is probable that these cervical sclerites represent the hindermost of the cephalic somites" — in other words, he regards the cervicum as the labial segment.
Comstock, '02, adopts this view, and proposes that the appendages of the cervicum are the second maxillae which leave their segment and, migrating forward, fuse to form the labium.
He likewise makes use of Carriere's, '98, theory, that the salivary glands are modified tracheae, to explain the fact that the prothorax has no spiracles.
Comstock claims that the prothoracic spiracles are drawn along with the migrating maxillae and, becomingunited, form the opening of the salivary glands, into which their corresponding tracheae have changed.
He regards the lateral cervicals as the episternum and epimeron of the labial segment, and the internal process between these he explains as the endopleural apodeme of this "segment."
Voss, '04, arrived at much the same conclusion from his study of the musculature, and Riley likewise considers that the cervical sclerites belong to the second maxillary segment, from his embryological investigations.
The third theory is that of Newport, '39, who proposes that the cervical sclerites are detached portions of the prothorax, and represent the paraptera (laterale?)
of the mesoand metathorax.
Borner, '03, likewise considers that the cervicals are prothoracic plates which have become detached from the sternal region of that segment.
In an earlier paper (Crampton, '08) it was suggested that the cervicals possibly correspond to the "intersegmentalia" found between the proand meso-thorax, and that the internal hollow process between the lateral cervicals might represent the remains of the trunk of a prothoracic trachea.
It is quite comprehensible that a strongly chitinized tracheal stem, such for example as that of a Perlid, could serve as a muscle support, and, furthermore, it is possible for muscles to become attached to the tracheae without interfering with their respiratory function, as is shown in certain Arachnoidea.
In the case of the prothoracic tracheae, it was proposed that their trunks, being in a favorable position to serve as a support for the head muscles, were preserved by a change of function, while the remaining portion of the tracheae would be subjected to the same influences which caused the disappearance of the tracheae in the buccal somites.
This theory would seem no more improbable than Comstock's, '02, view that the apodemes of the pro-, mesoand meta-thorax are tracheal vestiges, and is by no means so startling as Carriere's, '98, theory that the salivary glands are modified tracheae.
Indeed, the views of Palmen, '77, Hatschek, '77, Wheeler, '89, and Carriere, '98, who claim that the tentorium (which likewise serves as a muscle support) is composed of modified tracheae, render the theory that the cervical apodeme is a modified trachea all the more probable; and Palmen's,.
'77, statement that there are traces of a tracheal invagination in the neck region of the embryo likewise lends weight to the above-mentioned theory.
However, upon looking into the subject more carefully.
it would appear that these theories dealing with a change of function have not been sufficiently well established, and it would be much simpler to explain the origin of the cervical apodeme as a drawing inward of a portion of the integument (or a corner of one of the sclerites) due to muscular tension.
Even if the theory of the tracheal nature of the cervical apodemes be rejected, this does not preclude the possibility that the peritremal sclerites which lay in front of the prothorax, may have taken part in the formation of the cervical sclerites.
The musculature of these plates could admit of such an interpretation, and it would be only natural that such sclerites should be the most developed in the cervical region, where they would serve not only as supports for the attachment of the head muscles, but also as strengthening plates for the membrane of the neck.
Verhoeff's, '02, theory seems very improbable from the fact that no traces of a " mikrothoracic " segment are to be found in the embryo, and none of the segmental structures show any indications of a duplication.
On the other hand, if the theory that the cervical sclerites represent the labial segment be accepted, how can one account for the occurrence of similar plates in front of the mesoand meta-thorax, for these surely cannot be likewise interpreted as labial segments?
Voss, '04, attempts to show from the musculature that the cervicum is the labial segment, but it would appear that the cervical muscles are for the most part attached to the occiput, and not to the labium.
Furthermore, Riley, '04, himself states that the pleura of the labium are in the occiput region, yet he speaks of the lateral cervicals as the pleurites of the second maxillae, without giving any reason for thus assigning them to the labial segment.
It is possible that certain detached portions of the labial segment may enter into the formation of the cervical sclerites, but it is not any more correct on this account to designate the cervicum as the labial segment, than it would be to term the intersegmentalia between the first two thoracic segments, the prothorax.
The ventral cervical sclerites, termed by Comstock, '02, the labial sternum and sternellum, appear to be detached portions of the prothoracic sternum, while the lateral cervicals may possibly correspond to the "intersegmentalia" between the proand meso-thorax, and the dorsal cervicals are probably detached portions of the pronotum.
12 12 In assuming that the cervicals are formed partially from prothoracic sclerites, it must be borne in mind that certain other factors, such as mechanical friction, etc., may have produced certain of these sclerites.
In most Hymenoptera, the prothoracic pleura are very closely connected with the cervical sclerites, and in many insects of this family the pleura of the pro thorax are almost indistinguishably fused with the lateral cervicals.
On this account the term cervico-propleura has been here applied to the lateral portions of this region in the Hymenoptera.
If one observe a Macroxyela (or a Tenthredo), a wasp and an ant, in the order above mentioned, it may readily be seen that the cervicopropleura (fig.
13, C.Pl) gradually approach one another on the ventral surface, and almost completely conceal the small presternum (fig.
14, S').
In such a case, the ventral portion of the cervico-propleura is almost without exception incorrectly termed the " presternum, " and even so careful an observer as Janet, '98, has been deceived in this respect.
Indeed, Rheinhard, '65, terms the entire cervico-propleuron the presternum, as does Schmiedeknecht, '07, and a number of others.
As has been stated, the cervical sclerites may represent the "intersegmentalia, " and, in addition, certain of the neck plates doubtless owe their origin to mechanical friction.
This brings us to the question of the formation of sclerites in general.
The prevalent opinion is that the segments originally consisted of chitinized rings, which became split between the pleura and tergal region to accommodate the wing; and the pleura became separated from the sternal region to make room for the leg.
This view, however, is not borne out by the facts of ontogenetic development, nor by the results.
of comparative morphological study.
In all of the very active larvae studied, the sclerites of the sternum and pleura form as islands (pi.
IV) which later unite to form the chitinous integument.
Again, in the adult stages of the lowest insects, such as Japyx for example, even though there are no wings present, the segments are not solid rings interrupted only at the base of the leg; but consist for the most part of small individual sclerites.
It is likewise the case that within the same family the sclerites of the generalized forms are more numerous and distinct, while in the more specialized forms there is a marked tendency toward a fusion of the sclerites to form a solid ring; and even the segments themselves tend to become closely united.
With regard to the origin of the sclerites, there are a number of factors which might give rise to such chitinous plates.
Among the chief of these causes is doubtless the stimulus of muscular tension, which would serve to produce a chitinized thickening of the integument at the points of origin and insertion.
The sclerites thus formed would not only serve as firmer supports than the softer yielding integument about them, but would likewise serve as protective plates.
Contact with external objects and mechanical irritation, such, for example, as the rubbing of one part upon another, doubtless play no inconsiderable role in the production of the sclerites.
This was well illustrated in the case of a young cricket, whose developing wing pads, by rubbing on the tergum upon which they rested, left their outlines distinctly imprinted in its integument.
In addition to the formation of chitinous areas in the integument, by the stimulus of its tension, muscular stress may likewise bring about the breaking up of the large chitinous plates, or cause their division into smaller regions by producing the infolding of hollow ridges, as is shown in the tergum 13 and pleura.
Again, it is quite evident that portions of chitinous regions may become detached by muscular tension and drawn into another region, as is shown in the case of the "migration" of the meron; such instances, however, are very rare, and this method would consequently play an unimportant role in sclerite formation.
However, the method of sclerite formation, the theories of segmental duplication, etc., are questions of minor interest, as the purpose of this paper is to deal with the comparison of the sclerites in the adult insect.
With regard to the homologizations and terminology at present in vogue, it may readily be seen that entomologists are by no means agreed in these matters.
Furthermore, the views here set forth frequently differ very radically from those of other investigators, and on this account the following list, which to some extent anticipates certain points which will be brought out in a subsequent publication, may be of some service, not only to furnish a resume of the synonyms, etc., applied to the various sclerites, but also to give a brief outline of the results here reached : — The Thorax.
Thorax— Thorax (Nitzsch, '18).
It is composed of the pro-, mesoand meta-thorax.
The "thorax" of Strauss-Diirkheim, '28, is the mesoplus the meta-thorax.
Kirby, '28, following Fabricius, Linne and the other earlier writers, restricts the term thorax to the notum or tergum, but these obsolete usages need not be further discussed here.
Prothorax (') u — Prothorax (Audouin, '20).
= Protothorax (Nitzsch, '18).
13 It is quite uncertain whether the postscutellum was separated from the remainder of the tergum by muscular tension, or whether the postscutellum was originally itself a distinct sclerite.
14 The signs given in parentheses refer to the method of indicating the region in question in the different figures.
= Collum (Knoch, 1801).
= Corselet (Strauss-Diirkheim, '28).
= Collier (Chabrier, '20).
= Manitruncus (Kirby, '28).
Verhoeff's, '04, " proterothorax " is the prothorax plus the cervicum.
mesothorax (") — Mesothorax (Nitzsch, '18).
Metathorax ("') — Metathorax (Nitzsch, '18).
The mesoplus metathorax = Knoch's, 1801, pectus.
= Chabrier's, '20, tronc alifere.
= Kirby's, '28, ahtruncus.
= Strauss-Durkheim's, '28, "thorax."
Verhoeff's, '04, "deuterothorax" = the mesothorax plus the metathorax and intersegmentalia.
The Segment.
Tergum (TV) — Tergum (Audouin, '24).
= Notum (Burmeister, '32).
Escherisch's ('06) "mesonotum" (which, according to Burmeister, '32, means the notum or tergum of the mesothorax) is the mesothoracic scutum.
Pleuron (PI) — Pleuron (Amans, '85).
= Pleura (Audouin, '24).
Kirby's, '28, "pleura" is the epimeron.
Burmeister's, '32, "pleura" is the episternum.
Sternum (S) — Sternum (Audouin, '24).
The sternum of Comstock, '05, is the basisternum.
That of Comstock, '02, is the basiplus furci-sternum, except in the cervical region, where it is doubtless a portion of the praesternum.
The Tergum.
(For example, that of the Mesothorax.)
Pi^escutum (N'\) — Pr^escutum (Audouin, '32).
(The other uses of the word praescutum are given under the heading Mediscutum.)
= Proterophragma (Kleuker, '83).
= Antedorsum (Amans, '85).
In the Diptera, Amans', '85, and Petri's, '99, antedorsum is the mediscutum.
Scutum (N 2 ") — Scutum (Audouin, '32).
Voss', '04, scutum is the scutum plus the scutellum.
The scutum of Hammond, '81, Kiinkel, 75-'81, Brauer, '82, Lowne, '90-'92, Packard, '98, Hewitt, '07, a. o., is the parapsidoscutum.
= Dorsum (Amans, '85).
(According to Audouin, '32, the term dorsum refers to the whole dorsal surface of the insect.)
In the Diptera, Amans', '85, and Petri's, '99, "dorsum" is the parapsidoscutum.
Mediscutum (N" 2 a.)
— Mediscutum (Crampton, '08).
= The praescutum of Hammond, '81, Kiinkel, '75-'Sl, Brauer, '82 Lowne '90-'92, Packard, '98, Hewitt, '07, a. o.
= Escherisch's, '06, "mesonotum."
Parapsidoscutum (N" 2 b) — Parapsidoscutum (Crampton, '08).
= In part the parapsides of MacLeay, '30.
= The scutum of Hammond, '81, a. o.
= Escherisch's, '06, proscutellum of the mesothorax (but according to Audouin, '24, the term proscutellum refers to the prothoracic scutellum alone).
= Emerv's, '00, "paratteri" (i.e., parapsides?).
Pterygoda (Pt)— "Pterygodes" (Latreille, '20-'22).
= Tegulte (Kirby, '28).
= Squamulse (MacLeay, *30).
= Hypoptere (Audouin, '25).
= Paraptere (Audouin, '25).
Hammond's parapteron is the anepisternum.
= "Hautpolster" (Voss, '04).
Scutellum (N" 3 ) — Scutellum (Audouin, '24).
= Postdorsum (Amans, '85).
Postscutellum (N"^ — Postscutellum (Audouin, '24).
= Subpostdorsum (Amans, '85).
= Part of Kleukers, '83, deuterophragma.
= "Postscutum" (Voss, '04).
Brauer, '82, regards the upper portion of the dipteran postscutellum as the entire postscutellum, and terms its lower portion the "phragma. "
Mediophragmite (iV" 4 a) — Mediophragmite (Crampton, '08).
Pleurophragmite (A/" 4 b) — Pleurophragmite (Crampton, '08).
The mesothoracic pleurophragmite is Lowne's, '90-'92, "lateral plate of the metathorax."
The mesothoracic pleurophragmite is Brauer's, '82, " ?
Episternutn des Metathorax" — "wahrscheinlich der Rest des Praescutums des Metathorax und zwar homolog mit der Ecke vor der Fliigelwurzel."
= Hammond's, '81, "uncertain plate."
= Petri's, '99, metathoracic antepleura (i.e., episternum).
The piece in question, however, belongs to the mesothorax.
= Osten-Sacken's, '64, "metapleura" (the term metapleura refers to the pleura (i.e., epimera and episterna) of the metathorax).
Parapleuron (iV'" 4 bb) — Parapleure (Kolbe, '93).
Knoch's, 1801, " parapleurum " is the epimeron.
Cuvier's, '28, "parapleure" is the epimeron.
Kirby's, '28, "parapleura" is the epimeron.
Burmeister's, '32, "parapleura" is the episternum.
Fieber's, '61, "parapleurum" is the epimeron.
Voss, '04, "parapleura" is the episternum.
Lacordaire's, '54, " parapleures " are the epimera and episterna.
The Pleuron (of the Mesothorax).
Epimeron (Em") — Epimeron (Audouin, '24).
= Pleurit (Heymons, '99).
= Parapleura (Kirby, '28, a.
o.).
= Pleura (Burmeister, '32, a.
o.).
= Anopleure (Verhoeff, '03).
= Postpleuron (Amans, '85).
Petri's, '99, mesothoracic "postpleura" is the anepimeron.
On the other hand, his metathoracic "postpleura "is the anepisternum.
Lowne's, '90-'92, epimeron is the katepimeron.
Brauer's, '82, epimeron is the anepimeron.
Hammond's, '81, epimeron is the meron.
Sharp's, '95-'99, "epimeron?"
in his figure of Blabera, is the trochantinus major.
Anepimeron (EM" a) — Anepimeron (of this paper).
= Hyperepimeron (Crampton, '08).
= Lowne's, '90-'92, episternum.
= Brauer's, '82, entire epimeron.
The anepimeron of the mesothorax, Petri, '99, terms the postpleura (i.e., epimeron), but his metathoracic postpleura is the anepisternum.
Katepimeron (EM"k) — Katepimeron (of this paper).
= Hypoepimeron (Crampton, '08).
= Lowne's, '90-'92, entire epimeron.
The katepimeron of the mesothorax, Petri, '99, terms the metathoracic antesternum.
15 According to Snodgrass, '08, Verhoeff's pseudonotum and Berlese's acrotcrgite of the first abdominal segment are homologous with the postscutellum.
Episternum (ES") — Episternum (Audouin, '24).
= Parapleura (Burmeister, '32).
= Pleura (Kirby, '28).
.
= Coxopleure (Verhoeff, '03) in Forficula.
In the Blattidae, Verhoeff's coxopleure is the episternum plus the anterior laterale.
Comstock's, '02, and Walton's, '00, episternum in the Blattidae is the episternum plus the anterior laterale.
Lowne's, '90-'92, episternum is the anepimeron.
Brauer's, '82, episternum is the katepisternum.
Anepisternum (ES"a.)
— Anepisternum (of this paper).
= Hyperepisternum (Crampton, '08).
= Lowne's, '90-'92, "lateral plate."
= The episternum of Brauer, '82, a. o.
= Hammond's, '81, parapteron.
= Petri's, '99, antepleura of the mesothorax.
On the other hand, his metathoracic antepleura is the mesothoracic pleurophragmite.
Katepisternum (ES"k) — Katepisternum (of this paper).
Katepisternal complex (ES"x) — Katepisternal complex (of tliis paper).
Laterale (L") — Laterale (Crampton, '08).
= Voss, '04, coxosternum.
Borner's, '03, coxosternum is the epimeron, episternum and laterale.
Verhoeff's, '97, coxasternum is the fusion product of the sternum and coxae.
Anterior laterale (La) — Anterior laterale (of this paper).
Antecoxal laterale (Lb) — Antecoxal laterale (Crampton, '08).
= "Antecoxal piece" (Walton, '00).
Comstock's, '02.
"antecoxal piece" is the antecoxal trochantin.
Comstock's, '05, "antecoxal piece" is the furci -sternum.
Leconte's, '61-'62, "antecoxal plates" are the lateral cervicals.
= Second antecoxal piece (Comstock, '02).
= Verhoeff's, '03, katopleure in the Blattidae.
On the other hand, his katopleure in the Dermiptera is the episternal laterale.
In the prothorax of Echinosoma, his katopleure is the sternal laterale.
Borner's, '03, katopleure in the mesothorax of Anisolabis is the episternal and sternal laterale.
In prothorax of Anisolabis it is the sternal laterale and the posterior lateral cervicals.
In the Blattida?
his katopleure is the antecoxal laterale.
Episternal laterale (L" t ) — Episterni-laterale (Crampton, '08).
= Verhoeff's, '03, katopleure in the Dermiptera.
In the Blattidae, however his katopleure is the antecoxal laterale.
Sternal laterale (L" 2 ) — Sterni laterale (Crampton, '08).
= Verhoeff's, '03, "Vorplatte" of the mesothorax in the Blattidae.
In the Blattid prothorax his "Vorplatte" is a lateral cervical.
Trochantinus (T) — Trochantinus (MacLeay, '30).
= Trochantine (Audouin, '24).
= Rotule (Strauss-Durkheim, '28).
= Prsecoxal plate (Voss, '04).
Antecoxal trochantin (TV) — Antecoxal trochantin (Crampton, '08).
= Antecoxal piece (Comstock, '02).
The other usages of the term antecoxal piece are given under the term antecoxal laterale.
COXAL TROCHANTIN (7V') COXAL TROCHANTIN (Crampton, '08).
= Comstock's, '02, entire trochantinus.
Trochantinus major (T\) — Trochantinus major (Crampton, '08).
= Sharp's "epimeron?"
in Blabera.
Trochantinus minor (7" 2 ) — Trochantinus minor (Crampton, '08).
= Sharp's entire trochantinus in Blabera.
Eucoxa (C'\)— Eucoxa (Verhoeff, '04).
= Coxa genuina (Walton, '00).
Meron (C" 2 )— Meron (Walton, '00).
Borner's, '03, meron is the epimeron, episternum and laterale.
= Metacoxa, Verhoeff, '04.
The term metacoxa means the coxa of the metathorax.
Petri's, '99, poststernum of the mesothorax is the meron.
On the other hand, his metathoracic poststernum is the katepimeron.
Brauer's, '82, Lowne's, '90-'92, and Hewitt's, '07, sternum of the dipteran metathorax is the mesothoracic meron.
• According to Packard, '98, the meron is the trochantinus, while Sharp, '95'99, designates it as a fold of the epimeron.
Sternum OS")— Sternum (Audouin, '24).
The sternum of Comstock, '02, is the basiand furci-sternum, except in the cervical region where it is doubtless a detached portion of the prsesternum.
Comstock's, '05, sternum is the basi-sternum.
Brauer's, '82, mesosternum is the mesothoracic katepisternal complex, the laterale and the basisternum.
On the other hand, his metasternum is the mesothoracic meron.
Petri's, '99, antesternum of the mesothorax is likewise the katepisternal complex, laterale and basisternum (as in the case with Lowne's, '90-'92, "plastron," and Osten-Sacken's, '64, "sternopleura"); his metathoracic antesternum, however, is the mesothoracic katepimeron.
Presternum (S'\) — Presternum (Comstock, '02).
Meinert's, '67, prsesternum is probably the spinisternum.
Basisternum (S"n) — Basisternum (Crampton, '08).
Furcisternum (*S" 3 ) — -Furcisternum (Cramp ton, '08).
= Comstock, '04, "antecoxal piece."
Spinisternum (S 4 ) — Spinisternum (Crampton, '08).
Cervicum (Cs) — Cervicum (Crampton, '08).
= Mikrothorax (Verhoeff, '02).
Bibliography.
1880.
Adolph.
Ueber Insektenfliigel.
Nov. Act.
Abh.d.
k. Leop.
Carol, deutschAkad.
d.
Naturf., Bd.
XLI, 2.
1885.
Amans.
Comparaison des organes du vol dans la serie animale.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat., VI ser., Zool., T. XIX.
1820.
Audouin.
L'anatomie comparative des parties solides des insectes.
Presentee par M. Cuvier.
Ann.
Gen. Sci.
Phys., T. VII.
1824. .
Recherches anatomiques sur le Thorax des animaux articules.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat., T. I, ser.
1.
1825. .
Article "Insectes," dans la Dictionnaire Classique d'Histoire Naturelle dir, pur Bory de Ste.
Vincent, Paris, T. VIII.
1832. .
Exposition de l'anatomie du Thorax.
Par W. S. MacLeay Accompagnee de Notes par 1VL Audouin.
Ann.
Sci.
nat., T. XXV, ser.
1 1884.
Ayers.
On the Development of CEcanthus niveus.
Mem.
Boston Soc Nat.
Hist., Vol.
III.
1826. v. Baer.
Ueber das Aussere u. innere Skelett der Insekten.
Meckel's Archiv.
Anat.
Physiol.
1880.
Balfour.
Handbuch der vergl.
Anat.
1893.
Banks.
Notes on the Mouth Parts and Thorax of Insects.
Am.
Nat.
1904. .
Notes on the Structure of the Thorax and Maxillae of Insects.
Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Washington, Vol.
VI.
1882.
Berlese.
Osservazioni sulla anatomie del Gryllus campestris.
Atti Soc.
Veneto Trent, Padova, Vol.
VII.. 1890. v. Bensdorff.
Ableitung der skulpturverhaltnisse bei Coleopterenflugeln.
Zool.
Anz., 13 Jahrg.
1902.
Borner.
Die Gliederung der Laufbeine der Atelocerata.
Sitzbr.
Gesell.
Natf.
Fr.
Berlin, No.
9.
1903a.
.
Ueber die Beingliederung der Arthropoden.
Ibid., Nr.
7.
1903b.
.
Kritische Bemerkungen iiber einige Vergleichendmorphologische Untersuchungen K. W. Verhoeff's.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
26.
1904. .
Zur Klarung der Beingliederung der Ateloceraten.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
27.
1899.
Bordage.
Probable mode of formation of the fusion between Femur and Trochanter in Arthropoda.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
III.
■j 1S82.
Brauer.
Ueber das Segment m^diaire Latreille.
Sitzb.
Kais.
Akad.
Wiss.
Wien.-Math.
Nat.
Klasse, Bd.
LXXV, Abt.
I.
1885. .
Systematisch-Zoologische Studien.
Ibid., Bd.
XCI, Abt.
I.
1903.
Breed.
The changes which occur in the muscles of a Beetle, Thymalus marginicollis, during metamorphosis.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Cambridge, Vol.
XL, No.
7.
1890.
Brongniart.
Note sur quelque insectes fossiles du terrain houiller presentent au prothorax des appendices aliformes.
Bull.
Soc.
Philom., T. II, 8 e Ser.
1882.
Brooks.
Handbook of Invertebrate Zoology.
Boston.
1832.
Burmeister.
Handbuch der Entomologie.
Berlin.
1869.
Brandt.
Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Libelluliden und Hemipteren.
Mem.
Acad.
St.
Petersb., 7.
Ser., T. 13, No.
31.
1870.
Buetschli.
Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Biene.
Zeit.
Wiss.
Zool., Bd.
XX.
1890a.
Carriere.
Die Embryonalentwicklung von Chalicodoma muraria.
Zoll.
Anz., Jahrg.
13.
1890b.
.
Die Entwicklung der Mauerbiene.
Arch.
Mik.
Anat., Bd.
XXXV.
1898.
Carriere and Buerger.
Die Entwicklungsgeschichte der Mauerbiene im Ei.
Nova.
Acta Abh.
Kais.
Leop.
Carol.
Akad.
Naturf.
Halle, Bd.
LXIX.
1886.
Cholodkowsky.
Zur Morphologie der Insektenfliigel.
Zool.
Anz., 9.
Jahrg.
1887. .
Ueber die Prothorakalanhange der Lepidopteren.
Zool.
Anz., Jahrg.
13.
1891. .
Die Embryonalentwicklung von Blatta germanica.
1889. .
Studien zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Insekten.
Zeit.
Wiss.
Zool., Bd.
48.
1820.
Chabrier.
Essai sur le vol des Insectes.
Mem.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat., Paris, T. 7.
1822. .
Essai sur le vol des Insectes.
Ibid., T. 8.
1898-99.
Comstock and Needham.
The Wings of Insects.
Am.
Nat., Vol.
22 and 23.
1902.
Comstock and Kochi.
The Skeleton of the Head of Insects.
Ibid., Vol.
36.
1904.
Comstock and Comstock.
A Manual for the Study of Insects.
Ithaca.
1853.
Cornelius.
Beitrage zur mihren Kenntnis von Periplaneta orientalis.
Elberfeld.
1908.
Crampton.
Ein Beitrag zur Homologie der Thorakal-Sklerite der Insekten (Kapitel II).
Inaug.
Diss., Berlin.
1823.
Cuvier.
Rapport sur les recherches anatomiques sur le thorax des animaux articules, .... par M. Audouin.
Paris.
1828. .
Les Insectes; dans le Regne animal, Vol.
I.
1841.
Dufour.
Recherches anatomiques et physiologiques sur les Orthopteres .... Mem.
Acad.
Roy.
Sci.
Institut de France, T. VII, ser.
2.
1907.
Duerken.
Die Tracheenkiemenmuskulatur der Ephemeriden.
.
.
.
Zeit.
Wiss.
Zool., Bd.
87.
1900.
Emery.
Intorno al Torace delle Formiche.
Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Ital., 32.
1903.
Enderlein.
Ueber die Morphologie .... der Corrodentien.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
26.
1838-39.
Erichson.
Die Kafer der Mark Brandenburg.
Berlin.
1906.
Escherich.
Die Ameise.
Braunschweig.
1820.
Eschscholtz.
Beschreibung des inneren skeletts einiger Insekten aus Verschiedenen Ordnungen.
Panders Beitrage zur Naturkunde aus den Ostseeprovinzen Russlands.
1896.
Fabre.
Etudes sur les Locusteens.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Zool., s6r.
8, T. I.
1861.
Fieber.
Die europaischen Hemiptera nach der analytischen Methode bearbeitet.
Wien.
1899.
Folsom.
The Segmentation of the Insect Head.
Psyche, Vol.
8.
1900. .
The Development of the Mouth-parts of Anurida maritima.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool., Vol.
36.
1877.
Graber.
Die Insekten.
Miinchen.
1881-83.
Gosch.
On Latreille's Theory of le segment mediaire.
Naturh.
Tidsk.
Kjobenhavn.
Ill Roekke.
13 Bind.
1887.
Grassi.
Anatomia comparata dei Tisanuri.
Atti Real.
Acad.
Lincei, 4 ser., Vol.
IV.
1832.
Griffiths.
Insects, Animal Kingdom.
1903.
Gruenberg.
Die Homologie des Trochanters bei Chilopoden u. Insekten.
Sitz.
Ber.
Gesell.
Naturf.
Berlin.
1886.
Haase.
Die Prothorakalanhange der Insekten.
Zool.
Anz.
and Jahrg.
1889a.
.
Die Zusammensetzung des Korpers der Schaben.
Sitzb.
Berlin.
Gesellsch.
Naturf., No.
6.
1889b.
.
Zur Anatomie der Blattiden.
Zool.
Anz., No.
303.
1889c.
.
Die Abdominalanhange der Insekten mit Berucksichtigung der Myriopoden.
Morph.
Jahrb.
1889.
Hagen.
Ueber die friiheren Zustande der Libellen nebst Andeutung liber Bildung des Thorax.
Stetiner Entom.
Zeit., 5.
Jahrg.
1881.
Hammond.
On the Thorax of the Blow-fly.
Jour.
Linn.
Soc.
London, Zoology, Vol.
15.
1906-8.
Handlirsch.
Die fossilen Insekten.
Leipzig.
1893.
Hansen.
Zur Morphologie der Gliedmassen u. Mundteile bei Crustaceen u. Insekten.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
16.
1894. .
On the Structure and Habits of Hemimerus talpoides.
Ent.
Tidsk., Arg.
15.
1907.
Hewitt.
The Structure, Development and Binomics of the House-fly.
Quart.
Jour.
Mic.
Sci., No.
203.
1823.
Heusinger.
Vorvort u. Nachschrift zum Aufsatz von T. Thon liber das Skelett der Kafer.
Meckels.
Archiv.
f. Anat.
U. Physiol, Abh.
20, Bd.
8.
1889.
Heider.
Die Embryonalentwicklung von Hydrophilus piceus.
Theil I. Jena.
1895a.
Heymons.
Die Segmentierung des Insektenkorpers.
Anhang Abh.
Kgl.
preuss.
Akad.
Wien.
1895b.
.
Die Embryonalentwicklung von Dermipteren u. Orthopteren.
Jena.
1899. .
Beitrage zur Morphologie u. Entwicklungsges.
der Rhynchoten.
Abh.
K. L. Carol.
Deutsch.
Akad.
Naturf., Bd.
74, No.
3, Halle.
1885.
Huxley.
A Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals.
New York.
1895.
Janet.
Sur les muscles des fourmis, des guespes et des abeilles.
Compt.
Rend.
Acad.
Sci., T. CXXI.
1898. .
Anatomie du corselet de la Myrmica rubra reine.
Mem.
Soc.
Zool.
d. France, T. XL.
1896.
Jaworowski.
Die Entwicklung des Spinnapparates bei Trochosa signoriensis mit Berucksichtigung der Abdominalanhange und der Fliigel bei den Insekten.
Jen.
Zeit Naturw., Bd.
30.
1897. .
Zu meiner extremitaten u. Kiementheorie bei Anthropoden.
Zool.
Anz., 20 Jahrg., No.
532.
1888.
Jordan.
Anatomie u. Biologie der Physopoden.
Zeit Wiss.
Zool., Bd.
XLVII.
1888.
Jourdain.
Sur le Machilis maritima.
C. R. Acad.
Sci., T. CVI.
1820.
Jurine.
Observations sur les ailes des Hymenopteres.
Mem.
reale.
Acad.
Sci.
Torino, Tome XXIV 1828.
Kirby and Spence.
Introduction to Entomology.
Vol.
3.
1883.
Kleuker.
Ueber Endoskeletale Bildungen bei Insekten.
Diss.
Dorpat.
Gottingen.
1801.
Knoch.
Neue Beitrage zur Insektenurkunde.
Leipzig.
1893.
Kolbe.
Einflihrung in die Kenntnisse der Insekten.
Berlin.
1901. .
Vergleichend-morphologische Untersuchungen bei Coleopteren.
Arch.
f.
Naturg., 67 Jahrg., Beiheft.
, 1885.
Korotneff.
Die Embryologie der Gryllotalpa.
Zeit.
Wiss.
Zool., Bd.
XLI.
1890-92.
Korschelt u. Heider.
Ljehrbuch der Vergl.
Entwicklungsges.
der wirbellosen Tiere.
Jena.
1898.
Krueger.
Ueber die Entwicklung der Fliigel der Insekten mit besonder Berticksichtigung der Deckfliigel der Kafer.
Inaug.
Diss.
Gottingen.
1875-81.
Kuenkel d'Herculais.
Recherches sur l'organisation et le developpement des Volucelles.
Paris.
1834-38.
Lacordaire.
Introduction a l'entomologie.
Paris.
1854.
— — .
Genera des Coleopteres.
Paris.
1900.
Lameere.
Notes pour la classification des Coleopteres.
Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg., T. XLIV.
1866.
Landois.
Anatomie des Hundflohs.
Nova.
Acta.
Acad.
Leop.
Carol.
Dresden., Bd.
XXXIII.
1867. .
Die Tracheenverschluss bei den Insekten.
Zeit.
Wiss.
Zoll., Bd.
XVII.
1820-22.
Latreille.
Des rapports generaux de l'organisation exterieure des animaux invertebres articules.
Mem.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat., T. VI-VII.
1831. .
Cours d'Entomologie.
Paris.
1861-62.
Leconte.
Classification of the Coleoptera of North America.
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Part I; also Leconte and Horn, Washington, 1883.
1847.
Leidy.
History and Anatomy of the Hemipterous genus Belostoma.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., Vol.
1 (N.S.
), Part I.
1881. v. Lendenfeld.
Der Flug der Libellen.
Sitzb.
K. K. Akad.
Wiss.
Wien.
Math.
Naturw.
Klasse.
Jahrg.
4, Bd.
LXXXIII, Abt.
I.
1873.
Liebe.
Die Gelenke der Insekten.
Programm d. Kgl.
Gymnasiums zu Chemnitz, 4.
1864.
Lindemann.
Notizen zur Lehre vom ausseren Skelette der Insekten.
Bull.
Soc.
Imp.
Moscau, T. XXXVII, Part I.
1861.
Low.
Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Orthopteren.
Verh.
Zool.
Bot.
Gesell.
Wien, Bd.
XI.
1890-92.
Lowne.
The Anatomy, Physiology, Morphology and Development of the Blow-fly.
London (also 1870).
1881.
Lubbock.
On the Anatomy of Ants.
Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, 2 ser., Vol.
2, Zool., Part 2.
1883.
Luks.
Ueber die Brustmuskulatur der Insekten.
Jen.
Zeit.
Naturw.
u.
Med., Bd.
XVI.
1906.
MacGillevray.
A Study of Wings of the Tenthredinoidse.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., Vol.
XXIX.
1830.
MacLeay.
Explanation of the Comparative Anatomy of the Thorax in Winged Insects.
Zool.
Jour.
London, Bd.
V, No.
XVIII.
1832. .
French translation; see Audouin, '32.
1862-63.
Meinert.
Anatomia forficularum.
Diss.
Med.
Hofn., Kopenhagen.
1867. .
On the Campodea, a Family of Thysanura (translation).
Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
London, III Ser., Vol.
20.
1880. .
Sur l'homologie des elytres des Coleopteres.
Entom.
Tidskr.
Stockholm, Bd.
I.
1886.
Miall and Denny.
The Structure and Life History of the Cockroach.
London.
1897.
Miall and Shelford.
The Structure and Life History of Pchalacrocera replicata.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London.
1900. .
The Structure and Life History of the Harlequin-fly.
Oxford.
1871-73.
Mueller.
Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Termiten.
Jen.
Zeit.
Med.
u. Naturwiss, Bd.
7 and 9.
1833-34.
Newman.
Osteology or External Anatomy of Insects.
Entom.
Mag., Vol.
I-H. 1839.
Newport.
Insects.
Todd's Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, Vol.
II.
1818.
Nitzsch.
Die Familien u. Gattungen der Tierinsekten.
Magazin der Entomologie, herausgegeben von Germar, Halle, Bd.
III.
1884.
Osten-Sacken.
An Essay on Comparative Chsetotaxy.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London.
1898.
Packard.
Textbook of Entomology.
New York.
1877.
Palmen.
Zur Morphologie des Tracheensystems.
Leipzig.
1890.
Patten.
On the Origin of Vertebrates from Arachnids.
Quart.
Jour.
Micr., Vol.
31, N. S., Part 3.
1899.
Petri.
I muscolo delle ali nel ditteri e negli imenotteri.
Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Ital., 31.
1832.
Rathke.
Zur Entw.
Gesch.
von Blatta germanica.
Meckel's Archiv.
f. Anat.
and Physiol., Bd.
6.
1844. .
Zur Entw.
ges.
der Maulwurfsgrille.
Ibid.
1886.
Redtenbacher.
Vergl.
Studien liber das Flugelgeader der Insekten.
Ann.
d. Hofmuseums Wien, Bd.
I.
1886.
Rehberg.
Ueber die Entwicklung des Insektenfliigels an Blatta germanica.
Jahresb.
Kgl.
Gymnasiums zu Marienwerder, Schuljahr 1885-86.
1865.
Reinhard.
Zur Ent.
ges.
des Tracheensystems der Hymenopteren.
Berliner Anatom.
Zeitschr., Jahrg.
9.
1892.
Riley.
Tegulae and Patagia of Lepidoptera.
Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Washington, Vol.
II.
1904.
Riley.
The Embryological Development of the Skeleton of the Head of Blatta.
Am.
Nat., Vol.
38.
1860.
Samuelson and Hicks.
The Earthworm and the Common House-fly.
London.
1879.
Satjssure.
Etudes sur l'aile des Orthopteres.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat., 6 ser., 7X.
1816.
Savigny.
Memoires sur les Animaux sans vertebres.
Paris.
1907.
Schmiedeknecht.
Die Hymenopteren Mitteleuropas.
Jena.
1895-99.
Sharp.
Insects.
Cambridge Natural History, Vols.
V-VI, London.
1896. .
The so-called Secondary Wing of Coleoptera.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London .
1902.
Silvestri.
Einige Bemerkungen iiber den sogenannten Mikrothorax der Insekten.
Zool.
Anz., Nr.
680, Bd.
25.
1908.
Snodgrass.
A Comparative Study of the Thorax in Orthoptera, Euplexoptera and Coleoptera.
Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Wash., Vol.
IX.
1843.
Spinola.
Considerazione sopra i costumi degli Imenotteri del genere Sirex.
1828.
Strauss-Duerkheim.
Considerations generates sur 1'anatomie comparee des animaux articules.
Paris.
1903.
Tower.
The Origin and Development of the Wings of Coleoptera.
Zool.
Jahrb., Abt.
f. Ontogenie u.
Phys., Bd.
XVII.
1898.
Uzel.
Studien iiber die Entwicklung der apterygoden Insekten.
1893.
Verhoepf.
Vergleichende Untersuchungen iiber die Abdominalsegmente der weiblichen Hemiptera, Heteroptera imd Homoptera.
Verh.
Naturw.
Ver.
Preuss.
Rheinlande Westfalen.
Reg.
Bez.
Osnabriick, Jahrg.
50, Bonn.
1895. .
Cerci und styh der Tracheaten Entom.
Nachrichten.
1897. .
Bemerkungen iiber abdominale Korperanhange bei Insekten u. Myriopoden.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
20.
1902a.
.
Ueber Dermipteren .... und iiber den Mikrothorax der Insekten.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
25, No.
665.
1902b.
.
Ueber die Nerven des Metacephalsegmentes und die Insektenordnung Oothecaria.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
25, No.
685.
1903a.
.
Beitrage zur vergl.
Morphologie des Thorax der Insekten mit Beriicksichtigung der Chilopoden.
Nova acta K. L. C. deutschen Akad.
Naturf., Bd.
LXXXI, No.
2, Halle.
1903b— — .
Vergleichende Morphologie der Laufbeine der Opisthogoneata.
Ibid.
1903c.
• Ueber den Thorax der Insekten mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung des Mikrothorax und der Pleuren.
Ibid.
1903d.
.
Ueber Tracheaten Beine.
2.
Aufsatz.
Zool.
Anz., Bd.
26, Nr.
692.
1903 e .
Ueber Tracheaten Beine.
3.
Aufsatz.
Sitzb.
Gesell.
Naturf Fr.
Berlin, Heft 2.
1903f.
.
Ueber Tracheaten Beine.
4.
Aufsatz.
Nova acta, Bd.
LXXXI, No.
4.
1903g.
.
Intercalarsegmente der Chilopoden.
Arch.
f. Naturg.
1904a.
.
Ueber Tracheaten Beine.
6.
Aufsatz.
Ibid.
1904b.
.
Zur vergl.
Morphologie und Systematik der Japydiden.
Ibid.
1909.]
53 1904c 1904.
1900.
1901.
1830.
1838.
1839.
1889.
1893.
1899.
1862.
1879.
1906.
1854. mesoor tin -.
Zur vergl.
Morphologie und Systematic der Embiiden.
Bd.
82.
Ueber den Thorax von Gryllus domesticus Zeit Wiss.
Nova Zool.
The Basal Segments of the Hexapod Leg.
Am.
Nat., Vol.
Acta, Voss.
LXXVIII.
Walton.
XXXIV.
.
The Metathoracic Pterygoda of the Hexapoda and their Relation to the Wings.
Am.
Nat., Vol.
XXXV.
Westwood.
On the Thorax of Insects.
Zool.
Jour., Vol.
V. .
On the comparative structure of the Scutellum and other terminal dorsal parts of winged Insects.
Entom.
Mag., Vol.
VI.
.
Introduction to the Modern Classification of Insects.
London.
Wheeler.
The Embryology of Blatta germanica and Doryphora decemlineata.
Jour.
Morph., Vol.
Ill, No.
2. .
A Contribution to Insect Embryology.
Jour.
Morph., Vol.
VIII.
Willem.
Recherches sur les Collemboles et Thysanoures.
Gent.
Winslow.
Om byggnaden of Thorax hos Insekterna.
Helsingborg.
Wood-Mason.
Morphological Notes bearing on the Origin of Insects.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
London.
Woodworth.
The Wing-veins of Insects.
Univ.
California Agr.
Exper.
Station Pub.
Technical Bull.
Entomol., Vol.
I, No.
I. Zaddach.
Untersuchungen uber die Entwickliung und Bau der Gliedertiere.
Berlin.
Reference Letters.
— ", or — '" — Indicates that the sclerite in question belongs to the pro-, meta-thorax.
-'"" etc.
— Indicates that the sclerite is abdominal.
AD Apodeme.
AP Apophysis.
C Coxa.
Cj Eucoxa.
C, Meron.
Cm Coximarginal sclerite.
CS Cervical sclerites.
CS 1 Ventral cervicals.
CS 2 Lateral cervicals.
C»S 2 x Posterior lateral cervicals.
CS 3 Dorsal cervicals.
C. PI Cervico-propleuron .
EM Epimeron.
EM C Costal sclerite.
EM & Anepimeron.
EMk Katepimeron .
ES Episternum.
ESa Anepisternum.
ESm Median region.
ESk Katepisternum.
ESkx Katepisternal complex.
F Furca.
I Intersegmentalia.
/pi Prselaterale.
7 P p Postpleural sclerite.
7pt Peritremal sclerites.
L Laterale.
L a Anterior laterale.
Lb Antecoxal laterale.
L x Episternal laterale.
.Sternal laterale.
L 3 Hyposternal laterale.
N Notum or tergum.
N t Prsescutum.
iV, Scutum.
N~p, Mediscutum.
A^b Parapsidoscutum (or parapsides).
2Vg Scutellum.
N i Postscutellum.
N i& Mediophragmite.
N b Pleurophragmites.
V 4 bs Superior region of the pleurophragmite.
V 4 bi Inferior region of the pleurophragmite .
V 4 bp Pleurophragmal sclerite or parapleuron.
PC Complementary coxal plate.
PI Pleuron.
S Sternum.
*S X Praesternum.
S 2 Basisternum.
S 3 Furcisternum.
<S 3 p Pedal region of furcisternum.
S 3 pf Postfurcal sclerites.
«S 4 Spinisternum.
SP V SP 2 First and second thoracic spiracles.
SP a Abdominal spiracle.
T Trochantin or trochantinus.
Ta.
Antecoxal trochantin.
Th Coxal trochantin.
7\ Trochantinus major.
T~ Trochantinus minor.
TG Tegmentary sclerites.
TR Trochanter.
Explanation of Plates I-IV.
Plate I.
— Nemura(?).
Ventral view of thorax and first two abdominal segments.
Head removed.
Legs, abdomen and wings shortened.
Plate II.
— Anisolabis and Forficula.
— Combination figure.
Three-quarters view showing venter, flank, and edge of the dorsum.
Head and greater portion of the legs and abdomen removed.
Prothorax based on Anisolabis; mesoand meta-thorax as in Forficula.
Plate III.
— Periplaneta.
— Three-quarters view of thorax and first abdominal segment.
Prepared and oriented as fig.
XXIII.
Plate IV.
— Carabid Larva.
— Three-quarters view of metathorax and first two abdominal segments.
The sclerite labelled "parapleurite" should be designated "paratergite. "
February 2.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-eight persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled "Action of Chemical Solutions on Bud Development : An Experimental Study of Acclimatization," by John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., had been presented for publication (January 28, 1909).
Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., made a communication on the architecture of spiders.
(No abstract.)
February 16.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
One hundred and thirty-nine persons present.
The Publication Committee announced the reception of a paper entitled "An Orthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern United States: Part II, New Mexico and Western Texas," by James A. G. Pvehn and Morgan Hebard (February 4).
The special business of the meeting being the commemoration of the centenary of the birth of Charles Darwin and of the fiftieth year of the publication of the Origin of Species, the President spoke of the influence of the doctrines of Natural Selection and Evolution on the development of thought and the progress of humanity.
Dr. Arthur Erwin Brown referred to the fact that the Academy had been the first society in America to recognize the importance of Darwin's work and quoted from his letter to Lyell of May 8, 1860, in which he says: "This morning I got a letter from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, announcing that I am elected a Correspondent It shows that some naturalists there do not think me such a scientific profligate as many think me here."
1 1 Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, including an Autobiographical Chapter.
Edited by his Son, Francis Darwin.
1887.
Vol.
II, p. 100.
Dr. Brown also read a letter addressed by Darwin to Dr. Joseph Leidy under date of March 4, 1860, acknowledging receipt of publications, expressing appreciation of Dr. Leidy's paleontological work, and returning thanks for his support of the doctrine of Natural Selection.
Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., then read a memoir of Darwin, dwelling on the importance of his work in science and on the relation of the doctrine of Natural Selection to modern thought.
A collection of Darwin's works and his letter of acknowledgment of election as Correspondent of the Academy were exhibited.
The following were accepted for publication:" ACTION OF CHEMICAL SOLUTIONS ON BUD DEVELOPMENT: AN EXPERIMENTAL STUDY OF ACCLIMATIZATION.
BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D.
The phenomena of vegetation lend themselves to experimental study.
This experimentation is necessary, because the laws which control the periodicity of plants can be determined only by altering the conditions under which such plants grow.
Interest in the periodic growth of plants is perhaps keenest in the Spring, when everyone is observing, in a more or less detailed manner, the gradual awakenment of vegetation.
The opening of shrub and tree buds has, as a result of this human interest, long engaged the attention of botanists.
The phenomena of bud opening, and the laws to be deduced therefrom, have not been studied experimentally.
Every student has been struck by the orderly sequence of the process in any particular district or climate.
Each species seems to fill its allotted place in the line of bud development.
The question arises, is this sequence due to heredity, to the character of the reserve food, or the disposition of this reserve food in the buds and twigs of the plant, or is it due solely to the climatic conditions, such as temperature and humidity?
The experiments which follow will furnish data which it is hoped will contribute to the answer of the above questions.
The only other experiments of a similar nature that have come to the writer's knowledge are those of DeCandolle, mentioned by Schimper 1 as follows: "Zweige von Holzgewachsen zeigen das gleiche Verhalten wie Samen.
A. de Candolle trieb Zweige von Populus alba, Carpinus betulus, Catalpa bignonisefolia [bignonioides ?]
und Liriodendron tulipifera die sich theils in MontpelliertheilsinGenf entwickelt hatten vom 4 Februar an in einen Raume dessen Temperatur wahrend der Dauer des Versuches zwischen + 7° und +10° schwankte.
Die Genfer Zweige entwickelten ihre Laub-knospen fruher als die aus Montpellier stammenden."
Experiments of the First Year.
Eight species were studied the first year in which the experiments were conducted.
Twigs from Liriodendron tulipifera, Quercus palustris, 1 Schimper, A. F. W., Pflanzengeogrophie auf phi/siologischer Grundlage, p. 56.
Populus monilifera, Tilia americana, Magnolia conspicua, JEsculus hippocastanum, Salix babylonica and Forsythia viridissima were placed in various chemical solutions described below, and at the same time plants near the University were observed under more normal conditions out of doors.
Twigs cut from these trees were placed in the chemical solution on March 1, 1907.
Under each species will be mentioned the chemical solutions used and the reaction which took place.
The date of the reaction will be given in each particular case.
The species of the first year's experimentation are arranged in the order of their response.
The plants were kept in a greenhouse where the temperature range was about 25 degrees.
At night the temperature descended to 65° F., while on sunny middays it rose as high as 90° F. Forsythia viridissima.
— The following chemical solutions were used with this species.
One per cent, chromic acid filled several of the bottles; ordinary stock picric acid diluted four times with water; ammonium nitrate (two grams) dissolved in 200 cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium chloride in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five drops chemically pure nitric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water ; menthol water ; two bottles filled with 800 cubic centimeters of filtered water; two grams ammonium sulphate in 600 cubic centimeters of water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether in 500 cubic centimeters of water ; 200 cubic centimeters of chemically pure ammonium hydrate in 1,000 cubic centimeters of water; a saturated solution of corrosive sublimate in 1,000 cubic centimeters of water; ten drops of chemically pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water.
One week after the experiments were begun buds of this species showed a reaction.
The most marked was with the ammonium hydrate solution when, on March 8, it was found that all of the buds above the middle ones were well opened, but the leaves remained tightly folded.
There was a steady advance in this solution until March 20.
On March 11 the flower buds were ready to open, and on March 15, four days later, the buds were expanded, while on March 18 the flowers had withered and a few green leaves had appeared.
After March 25 there was no advance, and on March 28 the twigs were dead.
Response was shown on March 8 by the twigs in picric acid, ammonium nitrate, sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, ammonium sulphate, ether water, corrosive sublimate and pure water.
The most marked response was in the solution with five drops of hydrochloric acid, where the buds had burst, and in the picric acid, where the three topmost buds had burst.
The response in the other cases was shown by an easement of the buds.
In the pure water the buds were green.
On March 8 no reaction was shown by the twigs in the chromic acid, nitric acid, menthol water and one bottle of filtered water.
In fact the twigs in the nitric acid did not respond and were dead by March 20.
The buds, however, in the menthol water, chromic acid and filtered water had responded on March 11.
The subsequent history of the twigs in the different solutions is as follows : Chromic Acid.
— March 11: The buds of the two upper nodes were developed.
March 15: The two topmost buds were expanded, but the leaves were still folded.. March 18: The leaves of the top pair of buds were fully expanded, with the terminal bud one and a half inches long.
March 25: No advance.
Picric Acid.
— March 11: Upper buds were green.
March 15: A few end buds were green, but not opened.
March 18: Upper buds burst, leaves green.
March 20: Leaves hardly unfolded.
March 25: No advance.
March 28: Leaves hardly unfolded.
March 25: No advance.
March 28: Twigs dead.
Ammonium nitrate.
— March 11 : All of the buds were burst and some of the leaves were expanded.
March 15 : Nearly all of the buds showed leafy branches one and a half inches long, with two to three pairs of leaves expanded.
March 18: All of the green leaves were spotted and unhealthy looking.
March 20 : All of the expanded leaves were dead, and on March 28 all of the twigs were dead.
Sodium chloride.
— March 1 1 : The three upper buds were enlarged and ready to burst, March 15, March 18, March 20, March 25: No advance in the development of these buds took place, and on March 28 the twigs w T ere dead.
Hydrochloric Acid (five-drop solution).
— March 11: The buds were burst open, but the leaves were still folded together; only the lowermost leaf was expanded.
March 15: The upper two pairs of buds had grown to a branch two inches long, with four pairs of opposite leaves unfolded.
March 18, March 20: All leaves of the branches expanded.
March 25, March 28, April 1 : No advance.
April 5 : Twig dead.
Menthol Water.— March 11: Middle buds burst.
March 15: Three buds were green, but not fully opened.
March 18, March 25, March 28, April 1 : No advance.
April 5 : Twig dead.
Filtered Water {A).
— If the twig in this experiment is contrasted with the twig in the other bottle of water, it is evident that its vitality must have been impaired in some way before the experiments began, hence the results obtained.
On March 8 there was no response, as in the other case March 11.
The middle and lower buds had burst, the leaves were flat but still erect.
March 15: All of the buds had developed into leafy branches two and a half inches long.
March 18: All of the branches measured two and a half inches long.
March 20 : Slow advance.
March 25, March 28, April 1 : No advance.
April 5 : Twigs withered.
(B) March 11 : Leaf buds eased, two flower buds were ready to open.
March 15: All of the flower buds were open, leaf buds one-half inch long.
March 18: All of the branches were green and two inches long.
March 20: The green branches were slowly growing.
March 25, March 28: The twigs and leaves were making rapid growth.
April 1, April 5, April 13: The growth continued.
Ammonium sulphate.
— March 11: One flower bud showed signs of opening.
March 15: Three flower buds advanced to stage of the first, but still tightly closed, no leaf buds open.
March 18, March 20, March 25: No advance.
March 28: Twig dead.
Corrosive sublimate.
— March 11 : Lower pair of leaves in each of the leaf buds were expanded.
March 15: Branches were two inches long and three pairs of leaves expanded.
March 18: Branches two to two and one-half inches long, flowers all withered.
March 20: Leaves of twig all flat.
March 25 : Leaves were all expanded and had grown in size.
March 28 : Leaves began to wither.
April 1 : Twigs unhealthy.
Hydrochloric Acid (ten-drop solution).
— March 11: Middle buds of twig eased.
March 15: Buds were three-quarters of an inch long, leaves were not unfolded.
March 18: Three buds were burst, but on March 20 no advance in these buds was shown.
March 25, 2 8,' April 1 : No advance in twig.
April 5: Twig dead.
Magnolia conspicua.
— Only two solutions were used in experimenting with the twigs of this tree.
Two grams of ammonium nitrate were dissolved in 200 cubic centimeters of water.
Filtered water was also used as a control.
On March 8 the twigs did not show response in either liquid.
The first response was shown on March 11.
Ammonium nitrate.
— March 11: The large terminal bud was burst, white petals shown at the base.
March 15: Bud opened, but no additional development.
March 18: No advance.
March 20: Terminal buds unhealthy.
March 20: All the buds were dead.
Filtered Water.
— March 8: No response.
March 11: Flowers fully open with the petals reflexed, but the stamens still closed.
March 15: Flower buds withered.
March 18 : First foliage leaf expanded.
March 20 : The twig was a little more advanced.
March 25, March 28, April 1 : Twig was dead.
iEscuLUs hippocastanum.
— Five solutions were used with the horse chestnut, viz., five drops of hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five drops of chemically pure nitric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; three bottles contained filtered water.
Hydrochloric Acid.
— March 11: Buds not burst, but resin abundant and more fluid.
March 15, March 18, March 20: No change reported in the record of this branch.
March 25 : Bud burst at tip.
March 28 : Bud nearly fully burst, leaves still tightly folded.
April 1, April 5: No change.
April 13 : Twig dead.
Filtered Water (A).
— March 11 : Terminal bud very resinous.
March 15: Terminal buds well expanded.
March 18: Large buds well expanded, but leaves still tightly folded.
March 20 : Terminal buds with leaves still erect.
March 25: Leaves of terminal bud distinct and horizontal, but segments still folded together, covered with rusty hairs.
March 28: Leaflets beginning to separate.
April 1, April 5: No advance.
April 13: Twig dead.
(B) No response on March 8 and March 11.
March 15: One lateral bud with woolly leaves showing.
March 18: Leaves of two lateral buds flattened out horizontally.
March 20: All of the leaves of the lateral buds placed horizontally.
March 25: Leaves began to lose their tomentum.
March 28: Leaflets began to separate.
April 1, April 5: No change.
April 13: Twig dead.
(C) March 11: Buds became sticky, resinous, inner scales began to show between the outer scales.
March 15: Buds well expanded, but not fully burst.
March 18: Buds burst, young leaves still folded together.
March 20 : Bud fully open, one leaf horizontal.
March 25 : Leaves all horizontal, covered with tomentum.
March 28: Leaflets still folded together.
April 1 : Leaves somewhat withered.
Populus monilifera.
— The following chemical solutions were used in experimenting with the twigs of the Carolina poplar: Chromic acid, one per cent.
; filtered water; five decigrams of sodium bicarbonate in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium chloride in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five drops of chemically pure sulphuric acid in 100 cubic centimeters of water; ten drops of chemically pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; twenty drops of chemically pure sulphuric acid in 100 cubic centimeters of water; menthol water; filtered tap water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether in 500 cubic centimeters of water; 200 cubic centimeters chemically pure ammonium hydrate in 1 ,000 cubic centimeters of water; two grams of ammonium sulphate in 600 cubic centimeters of water; saturated corrosive sublimate solution diluted in 1,000 cubic centimeters of water.
No response was noticed in any of the twigs on March 8 and March 11, except in the case of the twig in ether water which showed a slight easement of the upper buds.
This stimulus was only a temporary one, because on March 11 no enlargement was noticeable.
On March 15, the twigs in water, menthol water, ether water, ammonium hydrate, ammonium sulphate and corrosive sublimate had responded and the extent of this response will be indicated in what follows.
It should be noted, however, that the buds on the twigs on March 15 in the ammonium hydrate solution had burst and the leaves were about to unfold, while the buds of the twigs in the filtered water, in the corrosive sublimate and in the ammonium sulphate were just beginning to burst open.
Chromic Acid (one per cent).
— No response whatever on any of the dates.
Water {A).
— March 15: Buds enlarged and green, but not open.
March 18: Large buds burst, leaves about to unfold.
March 20: Lateral buds open, one leaf began to unfold.
March 25: Lateral buds with first leaves partly unfolded, terminal buds burst.
March 28:Terminal buds fully expanded, one or two leaves unfolded.
April 1 : Two leaves of lateral bud expanded.
April 5: No advance.
April 13: Leaves broad, bright green, twig fresh.
Sodium bicarbonate.
— No reaction.
Sodium chloride.
— No response, twigs eventually killed.
Sulphuric Acid (five-drop solution).
No response until March 18 when the buds were slightly enlarged.
March 20: A slight additional enlargement.
March 25, March 28, April 1 : No advance.
On April 13 the twig was dead.
Hydrochloric Acid.
— No response.
Sulphuric Acid (twenty-drop solution).
— No reaction, eventually killed.
Menthol Water.
— March 15: Terminal bud enlarged, but not open.
March 18: Terminal bud burst, but the leaves are tightly folded.
March 25: Terminal bud with bud scales separated, leaves not expanded.
March 28, April 1, April 5: No advance.
April 13: Twigs dea I. Filtered Water (B).
— March 15: Buds enlarged.
March 18: Buds burst.
March 20: Buds well open, first leaf about to expand.
March 25: Leaves of terminal bud all fully expanded.
March 28: Leaves of upper two buds flattened.
April 1 : Green leaves fully developed.
April 5: Adventitious roots appeared, leaves fully matured.
Ether Water.
— March 15: Buds large and very green, about to burst.
March 18: Two lateral buds with leaves expanded, most advanced developed in all the solutions.
March 20: Some buds fully open, with one or two leaves flattened horizontally.
March 25 : No advance.
March 28: Majority of twig leaves beginning to unfold.
April 1: Leaves were all fully expanded.
April 13: Twig dead.
Ammonium hydrate.
— No response until March 15 when one of the lateral buds had burst and leaves were about to unfold.
March 18: Leaves nearly unfolded.
March 25, March 28: No advance.
April 1 : Twigs dead.
Filtered Water (C).
— No response until March 15 when buds were found enlarged.
March 18: Buds expanded and leaves flattened out.
March 25: Terminal and lateral buds with leaves fully expanded.
Rapid growth of this twig continued until April 13 when the experiments were concluded.
Ammonium sulphate.
— March 15: Large buds about to open.
March 18: Leaves pretty well expanded.
March 20: One leaf of lateral bud fully expanded, three others almost so.
March 25: Leaves of topmost lateral bud nearly expanded.
March 28: No advance.
April 1 : All of the twigs had gone bad.
Corrosive Sublimate.
— March 15: Buds enlarged.
March 18: Buds burst and about to unfold.
March 20: Leaves of terminal bud well unfolded.
March 25: Some of the leaves expanded.
March 28: Buds fully burst, two or three of the leaves were green and flat.
April 1 : Not much advanced, twig still fresh.
April 1 : Leaves fresh and green, broadly expanded.
April 13: Twig dead.
Liriodendron tulipifera.
— The chemicals used in the experiments with the tulip poplar were as follows : Five decigrams of sodium chloride dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of" water; filtered water; five drops of chemically pure sulphuric acid in 100 cubic centimeters of water; five drops of chemically pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five drops chemically pure nitric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; twenty drops chemically pure sulphuric acid dissolved in 100 cubic centimeters of water.
The twigs did not respond in any of the above-mentioned solutions until March 11, when those in the twenty-drop solution of sulphuric acid and in one bottle of filtered water showed a slight separation of the two outer bud scales.
The record for the other twigs is somewhat unusual and is here given.
Sodium chloride.
— Absolutely no response.
Filtered.
Water (A).
— The twigs did not respond until March 18. when two of the lateral buds split open, the inner pair of green stipules visible.
March 25: A lower lateral bud with one leaf expanded, another leaf was folded.
March 28: Another lower lateral bud with two leaves out, one only expanded.
April 5: Terminal bud casting off the outer brown stipules, one leaf unfolded.
April 13.
Twig dead.
(B).
— Twig dead, no response.
(C).
— March 11: Bud split open.
March 15: First inner pair of green stipules visible.
March 18: Buds well opened, but first leaf not unfolded.
March 20: First leaf expanded.
March 25: Terminal and lateral buds each showing one green leaf.
March 28: Leaves flat, buds rapidly expanding.
April 1 : Twig gone bad.
Sulphuric Acid (five-drop solution).
— No response.
Sulphuric Acid (twenty-drop solution).
— March 11 : Two upper buds with outer stipular scales slightly eased apart.
March 15: Scales more eased apart.
March 18: Buds burst.
March 20, March 25, March 28, April 1: No advance.
April 13: Twig dead.
Hydrochloric Acid (five drops).
No response.
Nitric Acid (five drops).
— No response.
Salix babylonica.
— The chemicals used with the weeping willow were: Chromic acid, one per cent.
; two grams ammonium nitrate in 200 cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium bicarbonate in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium chloride dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of water; ten drops of chemically pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; filtered water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether mixed with 500 cubic centimeters of water; 200 cubic centimeters of chemically pure ammonium hydrate in 1,000 cubic centimeters of water; picric acid; saturated solution of corrosive sublimate.
The results obtained in this series of experiments possess considerable interest.
Chromic acid, ammonium nitrate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium chloride, ether water, ammonium hydrate, picric acid, corrosive sublimate gave no response.
Filtered Water (A).
— No response was shown until March 18 when the buds of the female spike opened.
March 20 : Roots well developed, pistillate spikes one inch long.
April 1, April 5: Twig still continued its growth.
April 13: Twig withered.
(B) First response on March 11 when secondary roots began to form, no bud reaction.
March 15: Pistillate spikes one inch long; roots pink, three inches long, numerous.
March 18: Leaf buds open, first green leaves expanded.
March 20: Pistillate spikes two inches long, root four inches long.
March 25 : Roots long and curved about the bottom of the bottles, leaves elongated, dark green, three to four inches long.
March 28: Green branches four inches long, leaves flat, roots numerous.
April 1 : Two lateral branches green and four inches long.
April 5: Shoots eight inches long.
April 13: Twig dead.
(C) March 11: Secondary roots appeared; no bud reaction.
March 18: Leaf bud burst.
March 20: Leaves well expanded, roots well developed.
March 25: Leaves advancing rapidly to maturity.
March 28: Leafy branches, rapidly growing.
April 1, April 5: Growth continued.
April 13 : Leaves were sere.
Tilia Americana.
— The chemical solutions used in experimenting with the twigs of the linden were: chromic acid, one per cent, solution; stock picric acid in four times its volume of water; five decigrams of sodium bicarbonate dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of water; filtered water as a control ; ten drops of hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether in 500 cubic centimeters of water; saturated corrosive sublimate in one liter of water.
There was no response shown in any of the twigs until March 15.
The twigs in the chromic acid, ten-drop hydrochloric acid solution and in ether water showed no response during the entire course of the experiments.
The record obtained from the other twigs is as follows : Picric Acid.
— March 15: Bud scales slightly eased apart.
March 18: Terminal bud burst, three-quarters of an inch, green.
March 20: Terminal bud expanded, upper part of the folded leaves seen within.
March 25: Terminal bud burst, leaves out of the bud, but folded together.
March 28: Leaves brown and nearly dead.
April 1 : Twig dead.
Sodium bicarbonate.
— March 15: Inner scales of terminal bud pushed beyond the outer scales one-sixteenth of an inch.
March 18: Onefourth of an inch beyond, terminal bud burst, no leaves expanded.
March 25, March 28: No further advance.
Filtered Water (A).
— March 15: Two larger bud scales eased apart.
March 18: Buds burst, green spire one-fourth of an inch long.
March 25: Terminal bud green, spire-shaped.
March 28: Same condition ;as on previous day.
April 1 : No further advance, water later evaporates, ending the development of this twig.
(B) March 15: Terminal bud nearly burst.
March 18: Buds expanded, three-quarters of an inch green.
March 20: Upper buds burst, sides of folded leaves seen.
March 25 : Two leaves of the termi5 nal bud fully expanded.
March 28 : The twig was found dead, because the water had evaporated from the jar.
Corrosive Sublimate.
— March 15: Bud scales eased.
March 18: Buds nearly all burst.
March 20 : Half of the folded green leaves seen in the partially open bud.
March 25 : One to three leaves were found fully expanded.
March 28: All of the buds were burst, with one to three leaves fully expanded, flat and large.
April 1 : Twigs gone bad.
Quercus paltjstris.
— The chemicals used were: Two grams of ammonium nitrate dissolved in 200 cubic centimeters of water ; five decigrams of sodium bicarbonate dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium chloride dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of water ; 200 cubic centimeters of chemically pure ammonium hydrate dissolved in one liter of water; saturated solution of corrosive sublimate in one liter of water; two water control experiments were inaugurated.
The twigs placed in the ammonium nitrate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium chloride, ammonium sulphate, and ammonium hydrate solutions made no response by the opening of the buds.
Those, however, in the solution of corrosive sublimate showed signs of response on March 25, when the terminal bud showed signs of elongation.
On March 28, three days after, the terminal bud had burst and the leaves were ready to unfold.
On April 1 the twigs began to show signs of going bad.
In water the response was more marked than in the corrosive sublimate solution, for on March 25 the terminal bud had burst, but the leaves were still enclosed in the stipular scales.
On March 28 the leaves had nearly expanded, and on April 1 the leaves were fully expanded and the new shoots 100 to 127 millimeters long.
Summary of the Experiments of the First Year.
The experiments conducted the first year with twigs in various solutions throw considerable light upon the conditions which influence the flow of sap in plants.
Strasburger set the cut ends of trees in tubs containing copper sulphate solution.
He found that the poison ascended to the leaves a distance in the tallest trees of twentyone meters.
If such a violent protoplasmic poison ascends the trunks of trees, it is clear that they must kill all of the cells lying in the path of its ascent.
Strasburger concluded that the living cells of the stem were not necessary to the ascent of the sap, as a result of the abovementioned experiment with copper sulphate.
Strasburger also killed portions of the stems of living trees by heat, and yet the upper living and leafy portion was found to remain turgid for a few days.
Another experiment, which was held to negative the theory of protoplasmic activity, was that in which boiling water was poured on the root, when the plant continued to respire in spite of the roots having been killed.
These experiments of Strasburger are negatived by the experiments with the twigs in the various chemical solutions previously described.
As before indicated, the response of the twigs in the most susceptible instance did not take place until a week after the twigs were placed in the chemical solutions.
After the first response, the opening of.
the buds progressed steadily until the leaves had fully expanded.
In some instances the branch grew considerably in length after the opening of the buds had started.
As the experimental data prove, many twigs did not respond but were killed outright, as illustrated by the twigs of the Carolina poplar, Populus monilifera, in the ten-drop hydrochloric acid solution, or as in the case of Quercus palustris in the sodium bicarbonate, sodium chloride and ammonium hydrate.
Many twigs which responded at first by the enlargement or even bursting of the buds afterwards made no advance and were eventually killed, and ultimately most of the twigs not in water, but with their ends immersed in the chemical solutions, died after the buds had dried up or the leaves had wilted.
This seems to indicate that the chemicals first acted as a stimulus on the twigs; this was followed by the ascent of water, by the suctional activity of the living cells of the twig and bud, while the poisons lagged behind.
As long as any of the cells remained alive in the upper part of the twigs and in the buds they maintained their suctional activity.
Bose, 2 by a series of elaborate and painstaking experiments, has shown after the administration of a poison at the cut end of a branch or petiole that successive zones are killed one after another, and that the death of a point below does not stop the suction above.
He says: "It is evident that the application of poison at the root or cut end of a stem does not in general arrest suction until the whole plant is killed."
The records of his newly devised shoshungraph indicate that the final arrest occurs after an appropriately longperiod.
That a poison can easily pass through killed tissue owing to the suctional response of cells higher up, Bose proved in his experiments on Desmodium, when he placed the cut end of a petiole in copper sulphate solution.
In this case there are areas which during the ascent of the poison react visibly by the motile indications of the 2 Bose, Jagadis Chunder, Plant Response as a Means of Physiological Investigation, 1906, p. 385. pul vini of the inserted lateral leaflets.
Bose by his experiments proved that the ascent of sap is brought about, not by any localized group of cells in a particular region, but by cells which extend throughout the length of the plant.
Even after some of these have died, therefore, by the access of the poison, those above are still active, and will continue to exhibit suction until they in their turn are finally killed.
It is thus evident that the movement of ascent cannot be completely abolished until the poison has reached effectively the very top.
As all the living cells are actively concerned in the work of suction, this conveyance of poison to the top of the plant is what was to have been expected.
Only after such conveyance indeed could permanent arrest possibly take place.
Bearing these facts in mind, the action of the chemicals on the various twigs used in my experiments become very much simplified, and, instead of being very complex and unintelligible phenomena, became reducible to one or two simple kinds of activity.
Another important principle to be deduced from the experiments of the first and also of the second year is, that the experimenter is unable to disturb the natural sequence of bud opening by the stimulus imparted to the twigs by the various chemical solutions.
In only one or two instances did the chemical seem to react upon the buds and cause their enlargement out of the usual sequence.
These cases were with Forsythia viridissima twigs in the ammonium hydrate solutions and in the five-drop hydrochloric acid solution.
The response was appreciably earlier and greater than with the twigs in filtered water alone, or in the chemical solutions.
The Populus monilijera twigs in the ether water responded seven days in advance of the other twigs placed under various experimental conditions.
The results obtained seem to indicate that the chemicals do not influence either the time or the order of the response, but that this time and sequence depend upon some factor not directly influenced by the environment or by the experimental conditions.
One then looks to the hereditary influence which determines the time and the sequence of bud development.
Under hereditary influence we may include the minuter structure of the plant which determines what the character of the response must be.
Perhaps it is a structural preparedness and the character of the reserve food which determines the sequence of bud development.
To determine this point a study was made of the microscopic anatomy of the experimental twigs.
These are described in the order in which the twigs responded in their bud development.
The twigs were cut on March 13, 1907, before the advent of Spring, which occurred on March 30 and 31.
(1) Forsythia viridissima.
— The iodine test showed the pith cells crowded with starch, as also the cortex cells between the bast fibers, as also the medullary ray cells.
Fehling's test gave no reaction.
(2) Magnolia conspicua.
— On treating the sections with iodine starch was found in the medullary ray cells and not any in the cortex.
Fehling's test for sugar gave no reaction.
(3) ^Esculus hippocastanum.
— Starch occurs in the protoxylem region, in the inner part of the medullary rays.
No starch was found in the cortex cells and no reaction was produced with Fehling's solution.
(4) Populus monilifera.
— The iodine test showed the presence of starch in the cortex.
Fehling's test for sugar gave no result.
(5) Liriodendron tulipifera.— Starch is present in the younger and older portions of the stem in the cortex cells.
No sugar reaction.
(6) Salix babylonica.
— Iodine showed the presence of starch in the cortex cells and medullary ray cells.
No starch was found in the pith.
Fehling's sugar test was negative.
(7) Tilia Americana.
— Small starch grains were found in the cortex of a one-year old stem.
No starch was seen in the cortex of old stems.
In water the sections became strongly mucilaginous.
Fehling's solution gave no reaction.
(8) Quercus PALUSTRis.
— Starch was found in the pith, medullary ray cells and in the wood-parenchyma cells.
No starch was detected in the cortex.
Fehling's solution gave no starch reaction.
• As far as these microscopic studies throw light upon the state of the plant's preparedness, they seem to support the view that the more prepared a plant is and the more responsive its protoplasm is to the influence of external conditions the earlier is its response.
For the response of Quercus palustris with deep-seated starch is much more sluggish than the response of the twigs where the starch occurs in the cortex.
This relationship of response to the position of the reserve food should not, however, be pushed too far, as the protoplasm of the twigs and that of the cells of the preformed buds may be influenced without any transformation of the reserve supplies of food.
We do find, however, a sequential development of the buds and, as far as the experiments go to show, that sequential development is not disturbed by the chemicals that are used.
The course of bud development, therefore, depends upon the state of preparedness of the twig and bud, and not on the environmental conditions which surround the plants.
Heat is the great factor which determines the opening of the buds.
If the plant has the requisite supply of moisture, heat will accelerate the opening of buds ; but buds of different species of plants if exposed to the same temperature preserve the order of their bud development; but the time interval is very much lessened if the amount of heat is increased.
This was exemplified by a double climbing white rose growing against the side of a house with a chimney placed in the outside wall.
The heat of the chimney caused the buds over the chimney bricks to open at least a week or ten days before those on the rest of the bush showed any signs of development.
All of the buds in the rosebush were equally prepared to open, but only those did so which received the stimulating effect of the heated brick surface.
Experiments of the Second Year.
The second year of experimentation began with a plan for the enlargement of the scope of the work of the previous year.
In order to test the question whether chemical solution could alter the sequence of bud development if the buds were obtained from different geographic localities, and in order to test whether the twigs obtained from southern latitudes would or would not respond more or less quickly than the twigs from northern latitudes to the new environmental conditions, a circular letter was addressed to all of the agricultural 'experiment stations and to a few private individuals in the forest-covered portion of the eastern United States from the Gulf States' to Maine.
The letter read as follows: My dear Sir: — In continuation of a study which I have begun on the influence of chemicals on the opening of buds, I write to ask if you will supply me with twigs of one or several of the following varieties of fruit trees: apple: Baldwin, Early Harvest, Maiden Blush, Red Astrachan, Winesap, York Imperial; cherry: Black Heart, Governor Wood, Morello; peach: Early Crawford, Late Crawford, Oldmixon (free) ; pear: Duchess de An gouleme, Bartlett, Clapp lavorite, Flemish Beauty, Kieffer, Seckel.
These twigs I should like cut so as to show the last three years of terminal growth.
In addition I should like twigs of the same age of Quercus palustris (the pin oak), IAriodendron tulipifera (the tulip poplar), Populus monilifera (the Carolina poplar), Acer rubrum (the red maple), Msculus hippocastanum (the horse chestnut), Forsythia viridissima, Tilia americana (the linden), Magnolia conspicua (Yulan magnolia).
If not too much trouble please send them so as to reach me on January 15, 1908, when I expect to start all of the twigs received.
i&o This letter is printed in full because it describes the character of the material upon which the experiments were made.
Replies were received from eleven institutions widely enough separated from each other, so as to make the results obtained of interest in connection with the acclimatization of plants and with regard to the influence of heredity on the general method and time of bud development.
The institutions which made reply and the names of the tree twigs sent from 1909.]
71 > p a" P t1 CD 5" o p w CD B B o t1 p 2 ft> B °i p" B P tr 1 P B co 5" 03 P B 5 CO O <1 en CD -< en O o O B P tn W P o B en o CD O O B O CD C3 CD < P CD O B" P o P CD O 3 CD w B 3 CD o" CD CD CD o CD CD ►d p CD B CO P B * P •V CO >-^ el" P CD O o CD CfQ CD P p" B CI 5.
<<* CD CD O '-d CD B B CO P B X X X X X X X Baldwin Apple.
X X X X Early Harvest Apple.
X X X X X X Maiden Blush Apple.
X X X X X Red Astrachan Apple.
X X X Winesap Apple.
X X X X X X York Imperial Apple.
Black Heart Cherry.
X Governor Wood Cherry.
X X X Morello Cherry.
X X X Early Crawford Peach.
X X Late Crawford Peach.
X X X Oldmixon Free Peach.
X X X X X Duchess de Angouleme Pear.
X X X X X Bartlett Pear.
X X X Clapp Favorite Pear.
X X X X Flemish Beauty Pear.
X X X X X X X X Kieffer Pear.
X X X X X X X Seckel Pear.
X X X Querrus paluslris (Pin Oak).
X X X X X X X Lirindfndrontiilipifera (Tulip Poplar).
X X X X X X X X X Pupidits monilifera (Carolina Poplar).
X X X X X X X X Acer rubrum (Red Maple).
X X X X X X X hippocastanum.
X X X X X X X X Forsythia viridissima.
X X X X X X X Tilia americana.
X Magnolia conspicua.
each station are given in the accompanying table.
It will be seen that the material came from as far south as Alabama and as far north as Massachusetts, and that the twigs sent by the correspondents were abundant enough to represent, in many cases, the entire geographic range of the variety studied.
Thus the Red Astrachan apple twigs came from Pennsylvania State College; College Park, Maryland; Geneva, New York; Storrs, Connecticut, and Auburn, Alabama.
Bundles of twigs were sent by express in boxes or protected by burlap.
Upon their receipt at the University they were kept in a light, cool, airy cellar until all of the packages had been received.
The experiments, as far as practicable, were started at the same time,.
viz., on the afternoon of January 22, 1908, and on the morning of January 23, 1908.
The bottles with chemical solutions had been prepared previously.
The jars with the twigs were placed in a greenhouse the temperature of which ranged from about 70° F. at night to 90° or 95° in the daytime.
The latter temperature was reached with a bright midday sun.
The observation continued uninterruptedly from January 23, 1908, to March 14, when the experimentation virtually stopped.
Only one change was made in the fluids, viz., on February 14, 1908, when the evaporated water was resupplied, without the addition of any fresh chemical substance.
The chemical solutions used were made as follows: Corrosive sublimate.
— Strong solution : Ten grams in 850 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of water.
Copper sulphate.
— Strong solution: Ten grams in 850 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of water.
Sodium chloride.
— Strong solution: Ten grams in 850 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of water.
Ammonium nitrate.
— Strong solution : Ten grams in 600 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution : Five grams in 600 cubic centimeters of water.
Ammonium oxalate.
— Strong solution: Ten grains in 600 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution : Five grams in same amount of water.
Ammonium oxalate.
— Strong solution: Ten grams in 600 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of water.
Potassium chloride.
— Strong solution : Ten grams in 900 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of water.
Sodium bicarbonate.
— StrongT solution : Ten grams in 900 cubiccentimeters of water.
Weak solution : Five grams in the same amount of water.
Potassium bisulphate = Acid sulphate.
— Strong solution: Ten grams in 850 cubic centimeters of water.
Weak solution : Five grams in the same amount of water.
Hydrochloric Acid.
— Strong solution: Ten cubic centimeters in 800 cubic centimeters of water, only one-half of this liquid being used in the experiment.
Weak solution: Five cubic centimeters in 800 cubic centimeters of water, only one-half of this liquid was used.
Acetic Acid.
— Strong solution: Ten cubic centimeters in 800 cubic centimeters of water, one-half this quantity of liquid was used.
Weak solution : Five cubic centimeters in 800 cubic centimeters of water used in one-half the amount of liquid.
Nitric Acid.
— Strong solution: Ten grams used prepared as above.
Weak solution: Five grams as above.
Chromic Acid.
— Strong solution: Ten cubic centimeters of four per cent, acid in 500 cubic centimeters of water, one-half of the amount of liquid being used.
Weak solution: Five cubic centimeters of four per cent, acid in 500 cubic centimeters of water, liquid used in half amounts.
Besides the use of chemical solution water controls were instituted, the twigs from each station being placed in a separate jar of water.
Thus there were jars for the twigs from the agricultural experiment stations mentioned above.
Each of the twigs (some 900 in all) was labelled with a tag on which the locality and the name of the twigwere recorded by a selected abbreviation, thus Pas A 2 indicated that the branch was from an Early Harvest Apple sent from Pennsylvania State College, and that NYI W 25 was a twig of the linden (Tilia americana) from Ithaca, New York.
The results obtained with the twigs from the northern and southern States in the water and in the various chemical solutions, with the date and the character of the response, may be given as follows: Apple (Baldwin).
— Corrosive sublimate.
— Twigs from Geneva, New York, showed noresponse in strong corrosive sublimate solution.
Twigs from Amherst^ Massachusetts, in weak corrosive sublimate responded on January 31 by the easing of the leaf buds; on February 3 the leaf buds had burst; on February 4 the first leaf had unfolded ; on February 1 1 all the leaves had unfolded; on February 14 the first leaf had withered, and on February 21 all the leaves had withered.
The twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, responded by the bursting of the buds on February 3; on February 5 the first leaf had unfolded; on February 8 all the leaves had unfolded ; on February 1 1 the first leaf had withered ; on February 14 all the leaves had withered.
Copper sulphate.
— Twigs of this apple from Storrs, Connecticut, did not respond.
Those from Amherst, Massachusetts, responded by the bursting of the buds on February 7; on February 8 the first leaf had unfolded; on February 15 all the leaves had unfolded, while on February 18 all the leaves had withered.
The twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, in weak copper sulphate solution responded on February 8 by the bursting of the buds ; on February 1 1 the first leaf had unfolded ; on February 24 the twig had gone bad.
Sodium chloride.
— Twigs of the Baldwin Apple in a weak solution of common salt responded on February 1 by an easing of the buds; on February 3 the buds had burst; on February 4 the first leaf had unfolded, while by February 14 all of the leaves had withered.
The twigs obtained from Lafayette, Indiana, made no response.
Ammonium nitrate.
— The twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, in a strong solution of this chemical made response on February 5 by the bursting of the buds.
No other response was noted.
Ammonium oxalate.
— The twigs of this apple sent from New Brunswick, New Jersey, responded by the easement of the buds on January 29.
No other response was noted.
In weak ammonium oxalate the apple twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, made no response.
Potassium chloride.
— The apple twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, in weak potassium chloride eased their buds on February 3.
The buds burst on February 4; on February 5 the first leaf had unfolded; on February 11 all the leaves had unfolded, while on February 11 the first leaf had withered.
Sodium bicarbonate.
— The Baldwin Apple twigs from Pennsylvania State College did not respond in a strong solution of sodium bicarbonate.
The New Jersey grown twigs responded on February 3 and on February 7 the buds had burst.
On February 14 all the leaves had withered; January 29 the flower buds had eased.
The weak solution of this salt acted more favorably.
On February 3 the leaf buds of a Connecticut twig had burst, while a Michigan grown twig responded first on January 30 ; while on January 31 the leaf buds and a first leaf had unfolded.
January 29 witnessed the bursting of the first flower bud.
Potassium bisulphate.
— The twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, kept in weak potassium bisulphate responded by the easing of the buds on February 4; on February 5 the buds had burst, and on February 7 the first leaf had unfolded.
The twigs from Michigan made a slight response in this weaker solution by the bursting of the buds on February 1.
Hydrochloric Acid.
— The Baldwin Apple twigs from Michigan in the weak acid solution made no response.
Acetic Acid.
— No response in the strong acetic acid solution.
Twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, responded by the buds easing on January 31.
After the buds had burst on February 11 no other response was noted.
Nitric Acid.
— No response.
Water.
— The Baldwin Apple twigs from Pennsylvania State College responded on January 29 by the easement of the flower buds ; on February 3 the flower and leaf buds had burst; on February 4 the flower buds had protruded from the winter bud scales.
On February 18 all of the flowers were found withered.
The twigs from New Brunswick, New Jersey, responded on February 1 with the easement of the leaf buds; on February 3 the leaf buds had burst; on February 5 the flower buds burst ; while on February 7 the first leaf was unfolded, and on February 21 all of the leaves had unfolded.
The flowers made no further response.
The twigs from Geneva, New York, responded on January 31 by an easement of the buds.
On February 4 the leaf buds had burst.
The twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, responded as follows: February 1 leaf and flower buds eased; February 3 leaf and flower buds burst; February 4 first leaf unfolded.
From this time until death no other developments were noted.
The development of the twigs from Massachusetts showed a more steady course.
On January 31 the buds had eased; on February 4 the buds had burst; on February 5 the first leaf had unfolded ; on February 8 all the leaves had unfolded ; on February 14 the first leaf had withered.
The Michigan twigs responded first on January 29 with the easing of the buds ; on January 31 the buds had burst; on February 1 the first leaf had unfolded; on February 4 all of the leaves had unfolded, while on February 14 the first leaf had withered and on February 18 all of the leaves had withered.
The Baldwin apple twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, made response on February 4 with the bursting of the buds.
On February 6 the first leaf had unfolded and on February 14 all of the twigs were dead.
Apple (Early Harvest).
— Corrosive sublimate.
— Tl e twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strong corrosive sublimate solution responded on February 5 with the easing of the buds ; on February 7 the leaf buds had burst ; on February 11 the first leaf had unfolded, while on February 14 all of the leaves had expanded.
The leaves had all withered by February 21.
In weak solution the buds of the twigs from Auburn, Alabama, had eased on January 31 ; on February 4 the leaf buds had burst, and on February 11 the first leaf had unfolded.
Copper sulphate.
— The twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strongsolution showed response on February 1 when the leaf and flower buds had eased; on February 4 the flower buds had burst.
No other response followed.
The twigs from Pennsylvania State College responded on February 18, seventeen days later than those from Maryland, but the buds remained closed without bursting.
In weak solution the twigs from Auburn, Alabama, responded February 1 by the easing of the flower buds and leaf buds on February 5, and by February 15 the first leaf had unfolded.
No other response.
Sodium chloride.
— The buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strong solution responded slightly on February 5 without any advance.
Ammonium nitrate.
— The twigs from College Park, Maryland, in weak solution responded on February 1 by the easing of the buds.
No other response.
Ammonium oxalate.
— Twigs from College Park, Maryland, and Geneva, New York, in strong solutions of this chemical made no response.
In a weak solution the twigs from Auburn, Alabama, responded by the bursting of the leaf buds on February 14 and by the expansion of the first leaf on February 15.
Potassium chloride.
— In strong solutions the branches from College Park, Maryland, and Geneva, New York, made no response.
Sodium bicarbonate.
— The twigs from College Park, Maryland, made no response in strong solution.
Potassium bisulphate.
— Twigs from Pennsylvania State College made no response in strong solution, neither did those from Auburn, Alabama, in weak chemical.
Acetic Acid.
— The twigs from Auburn, Alabama, in weak acid showed no change and eventually died.
Nitric Acid.
— The buds on twigs from Auburn, Alabama, showed a slight response in weak acicl by the easing of the buds.
Eventually the twig died.
Chromic Acid.
— The specimens from Auburn, Alabama, in weak acid made no re^pnn^e.
Water.
— The Early Harvest apple twigs from Pennsylvania State College made a slight response by the easing of the buds on January 31.
Those from Maryland burst their flower buds on February 4 and their leaf buds on February 14.
The twigs from Geneva, New York, showed a more steady course of development.
On February 4 the buds had eased; on February 5 the buds had burst; on February 11 the first leaf had expanded, and on February 24 all of the leaves had unfolded, some of which remained green until March 14.
The only responses of the twigs from Alabama were on January 29 when the flower buds had eased, and on February 18 when the leaf buds had burst.
Apple (Maiden Blush).
— Corrosive sublimate.
— In weak solution the twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, responded on February 4 when the leaf buds showed signs of swelling.
On February 5 the leaf buds had burst and on February 7 the first leaf had unfolded.
The twigs from Lafa3 r ette, Indiana, responded on February 4 and on February 7 the leaf buds had burst.
Copper sulphate.
— The twigs from Lansing, Michigan, burst their buds on February 1 without other response.
Sodium chloride.
— The buds on twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, responded on February 7 without other change.
Those on twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, burst on February 14, with the expansion of the first leaf on February 15.
Ammonium nitrate.
— In strong solutions of this chemical the leaf buds burst on February 3 ; the first leaf unfolded February 4, and the first flower bud burst on February 1 on twigs from Lansing, Michigan.
The only response of twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, was on January 31 when the leaf buds burst.
Ammonium oxalate.
— The buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland, responded on February 5, and on February 7 the first leaf bud had burst in strong solution.
In weak solution the Connecticut twigs made no response.
Those from Lafayette, Indiana, responded by the easing of the buds on January 31; bud bursting on February 3 and leaf unfolding February 11.
Potassium chloride.
— No response in strong solution.
The Storrs, Connecticut, twigs in weak solution responded on February 3 and the leaf buds burst on February 5.
The buds of the Lafayette, Indiana, twigs responded January 29 and had burst by February 1.
Sodium bicarbonate.
— The twigs in a weak solution of this chemical responded on February 5, but after that date they were at a standstill.
The twigs from Indiana and Alabama made no response.
Potassium bisulphate (strong and weak).
— No response of any of the twigs.
Hydrochloric Acid.
— In strong acid the twigs from College Park, Maryland, made no response; those from Geneva, New York, did not.
In weak solution those from Storrs, Connecticut, and Lansing, Michigan, showed no response.
Those from Lafayette, Indiana, responded on February 4; on February 5 the buds had burst and on February 7 the first leaf had expanded.
Acetic Acid.
— The buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland, responded on February 1 in strong acid.
In weak acid the buds on twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, had burst on February 4, and by February 7 the first leaf had unfolded.
The first leaf withered on February 14.
Nitric Acid.
— In strong solution the twigs from College Park, Maryland, had responded by February 1.
No other advance was made.
In weak acid those from Lafayette, Indiana, responded on February 3 and the first leaf burst on February 4.
No other change was shown.
Chromic Acid.
— In strong chromic acid the twigs of the Maiden Blush apple from College Park, Maryland, responded on January 29.
February 1 marks the response of the flower buds; February 3 the bursting of the leaf buds; February 7 the opening of the flowers; February 14 the opening of the first leaf and the withering of the flowers.
By February 18 all the leaves had withered.
In dilute chromic acid, the flower buds on twigs from Lansing, Michigan, showed response on January 29.
On January 29 the flower buds had burst and on January 31 they were all closed.
On February 8 the first leaf bud had burst and on February 11 the first leaf was unfolded.
The leaf buds on twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, responded on January 29.
The leaf buds burst on February 1 and the flower buds on F( 1 1ruary 7.
The leaf buds on twigs from Auburn, Alabama, responded on February 4.
The first leaf and flower buds burst simultaneous!
v on February 11.
The first leaf unfolded on February 14 and all the leaves on February 21.
The first leaf withered on March 4.
Water.
— The leaf buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland , responded on January 29; the leaf buds burst on February 3 and the first leaf unfolded on February 4.
The first flower bud burst on February 7.
The flower buds on twigs from Geneva, New York, responded on January 29.
On February 3 the flower buds had burst.
On January 31 the first leaf had unfolded.
No other change was recorded.
The leaf buds of twigs from Connecticut responded on February 4, the buds burst on February 5 and the first leaf unfolded February 11.
By February 24 all the leaves had withered.
The flower buds on twigs from Michigan responded on January 29 and burst on February 3.
The leaf buds responded February 1, burst February 11 together with the unfolding of the first leaf.
The leaf buds on twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, responded February 1, burst on February 3 ; the first leaf unfolded February 4 ; all the leaves expanded February 6.
By February 14 all the leaves had withered.
The twigs from Auburn, Alabama, responded poorly by the unfolding of the first leaf on February 21.
Having described the course of development of the buds and twigs from three different varieties of apple, we may tabulate the remainder of the observations in order to shorten the descriptive account.
Apple (Red Astrachan).
— Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 5.
Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 14; all leaves unfolded February 24; first leaf withered February 15.
Copper sulphate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland : No response.
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8; first leaf unfolded February 11 ; all leaves unfolded February 21; first leaf withered March 7; all leaves withered March 11.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst January 31.
Pennsylvania State College : First leaf unfolded February 5.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves unfolded February 7; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 18.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 5; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 1 1 ; all leaves withered February 24.
Ammonium oxalate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 3; flower buds eased January 29; flower buds burst February 5; flowers open February 7.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: No response.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Conn. Lansing, Mich.
Leaf buds eased February 3.
January 30.
Leaf buds burst February 5.
February 1.
First leaf unfolded February 14.
February 14. so [Feb., Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— No response of twigs from College Park, Maryland, and Geneva, New York.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).— Storrs, Conn. Lansing, Mich. Auburn, Ala.
Leaf buds eased February 1.
Leaf buds burst February 3.
February 7.
First leaf unfolded February 4.
February 21.
Potassium bisulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; i leaf 'buds burst February 7 ; first leaf unfolded February 11.
Auburn, Alabama: No response.
Hydrochloric Acid (strong).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 4.
Acetic Acid (strong).
— Pennsylvania State College: No response.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Auburn, Ala. Lansing, Mich. Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased February 5.
February 7 .
February 14.
February 18.
February 24 Leaf buds burst January 31.
February 3.
February 4.
First leaf unfolded \11 leaves unfolded First leaf withered Nitric Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased February 4.
Leaf buds burst February 5.
Chromic Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf unfolded February 4 ; all leaves unfolded February 11 ; first leaf withered February 21; all leaves withered February 24.
Water.
— Auburn, Ala. February 7.
February 11.
Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded.. All leaves unfolded First leaf withered.. All leaves withered Flower buds eased.. Pennsylvania State College.
College Park, Maryland.
Geneva, New York.
Storrs, Connecticut, Lansing, Michigan.
Jan. 30.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 21.
Jan. 29.
Feb. 5.
Feb. 3.
Feb. 4.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 11.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 4.
Feb. 6.
Feb. 18.; I Feb. 8.
Mar.
17.
Feb. 18. '
Feb. 14.
Feb. 24.
Auburn , Alabama Feb. 6.
Feb. 11.
Feb. 14.
Feb. 21.
Feb. 21.
Feb. 28.
1909.]
81 Apple (Winesap).
— Corrosive sublimate (weak).— Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 5; leaf buds burst February 7.
Twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, in copper sulphate (weak), sodium chloride (weak), ammonium nitrate (strong), ammonium oxalate (weak), showed no response.
Those from Auburn, Alabama, in potassium chloride (weak) and sodium bicarbonate showed no response.
The twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strong hydrochloric acid did not respond.
Neither did those from Geneva, New York, in strong nitric acid and strong chromic acid.
Acetic Acid (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 4 ; first leaf unfolded February 1 1 .
Water.
— Twigs from Auburn, Alabama, did not respond.
• College Park, Maryland.
Geneva, New York.
Lafayette, Indiana.
Leaf buds burst February 14.
February 15.
February 3.
February 11.
Leaf buds unfolded All leaves withered February 18.
February 4.
Flower buds burst Apple (York Imperial).
— Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 4.
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 5.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 5; first leaf unfolded February 7.
Amherst, Massachusetts : Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 5; all leaves unfolded February 11 ; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 21; flower buds eased February 11.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded .
All leaves withered February 1 .
February 3.
Amherst, Mass.
February 5, February 1 1 , February 14, Lafayette, Ind.
February 7.
February 11.
February 14.
Februarv 21.
Auburn, Ala. February 14.
February 15.
82 [Feb., Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: No response.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Auburn, Alabama: No response.
Storrs, Conn. February 3.
February 4.
Lafayette, Ind.
Amherst, Mass.
Leaf buds eased February 6.
February 7.
January 31.
Leaf buds burst.... First leaf unfolded... February 3.
February 14.
First leaf withered... All leaves withered February 21.
Potassium bisulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut, and Auburn, Alabama: No response.
Lafayette, Indiana: Buds burst February 8; first leaf unfolded February 14; all leaves withered February 24.
No response was obtained in twigs from Storrs, Connecticut; Auburn, Alabama; College Park, Maryland, and Geneva, New York, in hydrochloric acid (strong and weak), acetic acid (strong) and nitric acid (strong and weak).
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Conn. Lafayette, Ind.
Leaf buds eased February 5.
Leaf buds burst February 11.
First leaf unfolded February 14.
Chromic Acid (strong), — College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 14.
Chromic Acid (weak).
— Auburn, Alabama: No response.
Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 14; all leaves withered February 21.
Water.
— Lafayette, Indiana : Twigs gave no response.
Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded.
All leaves unfolded.
First leaf withered.
All leaves withered.
College Park, Maryland.
Feb. 11.
Feb. 21.
Auburn, Alabama.
Feb. 11.
Feb. 15.
Feb. 18.
Geneva, New York Jan. 30.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 3.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 14.
Storrs, Connecticut.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 4.
Amherst, Massachusetts.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 3.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 11.
Feb. 14.
Feb. 18.
Cherry (Governor Wood).
— No response of twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strong potassium chloride, strong sodium bicarbonate, and in water.
1909.]
83 Cherry (Napoleon Bigarreau).
— No response of twigs from Pennsylvania State College in strong ammonium oxalate and strong hydrochloric acid.
In water the flower buds were eased on January 30.
Cherry (Morello).
— No response of the twigs from New Brunswick, New Jersey, in strong copper sulphate ; of those from Pennsylvania State College in strong potassium bisulphate; of those from Amherst, Massachusetts, in weak potassium bisulphate; of those from Pennsylvania State College in strong hydrochloric acid.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased January 28.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased January 28; flower buds eased January 29.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds eased February 8; flower buds eased January 29; flower buds burst February 3.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased January 30; flower buds eased January 30.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Amherst, Massachusetts: Flower buds eased January 29; flower buds burst February 3.
Nitric Acid (strong).
— Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased January 31 ; flower buds eased January 29.
Water.
— • Pennsylvania State College.
New Brunswick, N. J. Amherst, Mass.
Leaf buds eased January 28.
Januarv 28.
Leaf buds burst February 5.
February 1 .
February 14.
Februarv 21 First leaf withered All leaves withered..
Flower buds eased January 29.
February 1.
January 30.
February 5.
Januarv 29.
Flower buds burst February 1.
Peach (Early Crawford).
— No response as tabulated below : Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland.
Copper sulphate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— College Park, Maryland.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— College Park, Maryland.
Water.
— College Park, Maryland.
Copper sulphate (weak).— Auburn, Alabama.
.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Auburn, Alabama.
Water.
— Auburn, Alabama.
Hydrochloric Acid (strong).
— Geneva, New York.
Water.
— Geneva, New York.
Ammonium nitrate (strong).
— Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 7.
Peach (Late Crawford).
Twigs from the stations indicated in a previous table were placed in solutions of corrosive sublimate (weak), copper sulphate (weak), sodium chloride (weak), ammonium nitrate (strong), ammonium oxalate (weak), potassium chloride (strong and weak), sodium bicarbonate (strong and weak), potassium bisulphate (strong), hydrochloric acid (strong), acetic acid (strong), without showing any response.
The twigs in water eased their flower buds on January 31 and on February 5 the flower buds had burst.
Peach (Oldmixon Free).
— No response of any description of the twigs from the various stations noted in the table at the beginning of the experimental record in any of the various experimental fluids except water.
This and the immediately preceding series indicates that the peach is peculiarly sensitive to the action of such chemicals as were used.
In water the twigs from College Park, Maryland, responded as follows: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 7; flower buds burst February 3.
Pear (Duchess de Angouleme).
— Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 1 ; flower buds burst February 4.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Flower buds burst January 29.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 4; flower buds eased January 29.
Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Potassium bisulphate (strong).
— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds burst January 29.
1909.J 85 Acetic Acid (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Flower buds eased January 29.
Chromic Acid (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds burst February 3; flower buds burst January 29.
Water.— College Park, Maryland.
New Brunswick, New Jersey Geneva, New York.
Storrs, Connecticut.
Lansing, Michigan.
Leaf buds eased.... Jan. 31.
Feb. 4.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 3.
Feb. 4.
Feb. 5.
Feb. 14.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 1.
Leaf buds burst.
.
.
Feb. 3.
First leaf unfolded Feb. 6.
All leaves withered Flower buds eased Jan. 29.
Flower buds burst.... Jan. 29.
Pear (Bartlett).
— No response was observed in twigs from stations as follows : .
Geneva, New York, twigs in strong corrosive sublimate; New Brunswick, New Jersey, twigs in strong copper sulphate; Storrs, Connecticut, twigs in copper sulphate (weak), and in weak ammonium oxalate; Lansing, Michigan, twigs in weak sodium bicarbonate.
Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7 ; first leaf withered February 1 1 .
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Amherst, Massachusetts: First leaf unfolded February 5; first leaf withered February 11.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf bud burst February 7.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 5.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves withered February 24; flower buds eased January 29; flower buds burst February 3; flowers closed February 13.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 5.
Lansing, Michigan: First leaf unfolded February 3.
Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 5.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).— Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds eased January 21 ; leaf buds burst February 3.
Potassium bisidphate (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased 86.
[Feb., February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3 ; flower buds burst January 28.
Acetic Acid (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves withered February 8.
Nitric Acid (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 3 ; all leaves withered February 8.
Chromic Acid (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: First leaf unfolded February 3; all leaves unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 8; all leaves withered February 14; flower buds eased January 29; flower buds burst January 30; flowers closed January 31; first flower withered February 11.
Water.
— University of Penna.
New Brunswick, N. J. Geneva, N. Y. Storrs, Conn .
Lansing, Mich. Amherst, Mass.
Leaf buds eased Feb. 3.
Feb. 11.
Jan. 29.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 4 Feb. 5.
Feb. 7.
I Feb. 3.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 24.
Feb. 3.
Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded All leaves unfolded First leaf withered All leaves withered Flower buds eased Flower buds burst Flowers closed Feb. 1.
Jan. 28.
Jan. 29.
Jan. 29.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 3.
Feb. 14.
Feb. 18.
Jan. 29.
Jan. 31.
Flowers open Feb. 3.
First flower withered.. All flowers withered.... Feb. 7.
Feb. 7.
Pear (Clapp Favorite).
— No response was observed with twigs from New Brunswick, New Jersey, in strong copper sulphate; with twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, in weak ammonium oxalate.
Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 11; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased February 1.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 3.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf 1909.]
87 buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 5 ; first leaf unfolded February 7; first leaf withered February 11; all leaves withered February 21.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 5.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf withered February 8; flowers buds buret January 25.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds burst February 1 ; flower buds eased January 27.
Potassium bisulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 30 ; leaf buds burst February 1 ; first leaf unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February 8.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 30; first leaf unfolded February 3 ; flower buds burst January 29 ; flowers closed January 29 ; flowers open January 31 ; all flowers withered February 5.
Hydrochloric Acid (strong).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 4.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 8; first leaf withered February 8; all leaves withered February 11.
Nitric Acid (weak).
— -Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 5.
Chromic Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 8.
Water.
— New Brunswick, New Jersey.
Storrs, Connecticut.
Lansing, Michigan.
Leaf buds eased January 30.
February 4.
February 7.
February 8.
January 31.
February 5.
February 7.
February 11.
February 14.
January 30.
Leaf buds burst January 31.
First leaf unfolded \11 leaves unfolded First leaf withered All leaves withered February 24.
Pear (Flemish Beauty).
— Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1; first leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves withered February 14.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 5; first leaf unfolded February 8; all leaves unfolded February 11; all leaves withered February 14.
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds burst February 3;.
first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves withered February 24.
Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf unfolded February 7 ; first leaf withered February 11; all leaves withered February 14.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lansing, Michigan : Leaf buds eased February 4.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 5; all leaves withered February 11; flower buds eased January 29.
Lafayette, Indiana : No response.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 1; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves withered February 21.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 1.
Potassium bisulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 1.
Hydrochloric Acid (strong).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Lafayette, Indiana: No response.
Water.
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: No response.
Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3.
Lansing, Michigan : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves unfolded February 21; first leaf withered February 21.
Pear (Kieffer).
— Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7.
Lansing, Michigan: First leaf unfolded January 31; all leaves unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 8; all leaves withered February 11; flower buds eased January 27 ; flower buds burst January 28 ; flowers open January 29; first flower withered February 3.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 5; all leaves unfolded February 8; first leaf withered February 11; all leaves withered February 14.
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 1.
Lafayette, Indiana : Leaf buds burst February 1 ; first leaf unfolded February 4.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7.
Ammonium nitrate (strong).
— Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 8; all leaves withered February 21.
Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 11; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— State College, Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 1 ; all leaves withered February 24.
Ithaca, New York: No reaction.
Ammonium oxalate (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst February 3.
Ithaca, New York: No reaction.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February 24.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca, New York: No response.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, Lafayette, Indiana, and Auburn, Alabama, showed no response.
Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— Twigs from College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca, New York, showed no response.
Those from New Brunswick, New Jersey, responded by easement of leaf buds on January 30.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 1; all leaves unfolded February 3.
Potassium bisulphate (strong).
— Twigs from College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca, New York, showed no response.
Potassium bisulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds burst January 29; first leaf unfolded February 3.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 5; all leaves unfolded February 8; first leaf withered February 11; all leaves withered February 21.
Hydrochloric Acid (strong).
— Twigs from College Park, Maryland, Ithaca, New York, Storrs, Connecticut, showed no response in this chemical.
Hydrochloric Acid (weak).— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31.
Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst January 31 : first leaf withered February 7 ; all leaves withered February 8.
Acetic Acid (strong).— College Park, Maryland: No response.
New Brunswick, New Jersey : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lafayette, Indiana : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 4.
Nitric Acid (strong).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Chromic Acid (strong).
— State College, Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst February 3; leaf buds unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24.
Water.
— Pennsylvania State College : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; burst February 3; unfolding of first leaf February 8.
New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 4 ; first leaf unfolded February 8 ; all leaves unfolded February 11; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 18.
Ithaca, New York : Leaf buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 4.
Storrs, Connecticut : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 4 ; first leaf unfolded February 1 1 .
Lansing, Michigan : Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst February 1.
Lafayette, Indiana : Leaf buds burst February 6.
Auburn, Alabama : Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4.
College Park, Maryland : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf unfolded February 7; flower buds eased January 28; flower buds burst January 29.
Pear (Seckel).— Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds burst February 1 ; first leaf unfolded February 4.
College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7 ; all leaves unfolded February 1 1 ; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24.
Ithaca, New York : Leaf buds burst February 14 ; first leaf unfolded February 18.
Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Lafayette, Indiana: No response.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 1; first leaf unfolded February 3; all leaves unfolded February 7; first leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February II.
1909.]
91 Copper sulphate (strong).
— No response shown in twigs from the University of Pennsylvania; College Park, Maryland; Ithaca, New York.
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 4; all leaves withered February 14.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— No response in twigs from University of Pennsylvania and Ithaca, New York.
College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 7.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds eased February 5; leaf buds burst February 7.
Lafayette, Indiana: No response.
Potassium bisulphate (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 1.
Potassium bisulphate (weak).
— Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds burst February 5.
Lafayette, Indiana: No response.
Acetic Acid (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 1.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds burst January 30; first leaf unfolded February 1; all leaves unfolded February 4.
No response of twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, University of Pennsylvania, Ithaca, New York, New Brunswick, New Jersey, in ammonium nitrate (strong), weak ammonium nitrate, strong and weak ammonium oxalate, weak and strong potassium chloride and strongsodium bicarbonate.
Water.
— Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded... All leaves unfolded... First leaf withered... All leaves withered... UniverCollege sityof | Park, Penna.
!
Md.
New BrimsIthaca, Geneva, wick, N.J. N. Y. i N. Y. Lansing, Mich. Amherst.
Mass.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 4.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 3.
Feb. 5jFeb.
3.
Feb. 28.
Jan. 29.
Feb. 3.|Feb.
8.
Feb. 8.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 4.
Feb. 11 Feb. 8.
Feb. 11.
Feb. 14J Feb. 14.
Feb. 14.
Feb. 18.
Feb. IS.
The twigs from Amherst, Massachusetts, further showed the easement of the flower buds on January 29; burst on January 31; were open February 4 and withered by February 5.
Pin Oak (Quercus palustris).The twigs of the pin oak from Pennsylvania State College, College Park, Maryland, University of Pennsylvania, and Lansing, Michigan, showed no response in strong sodium chloride, weak ammonium nitrate, strong potassium chloride, strong sodium bicarbonate and weak nitric acid, while those in weak chromic acid burst their leaf buds on February 15.
Water.
— University of Pennsylvania: First leaf unfolded February 24; flower buds burst January 27; flowers opened January 28.
Pennsylvania State College: No response, as also the twigs from Lansing, Michigan.
Tulip Poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera).
3 — No response in any of the solutions, with the following few exceptions : Potassium bisulphate (weak) — Leaf buds eased February 5.
Acetic acid (weak) with twigs from Auburn, Alabama — Leaf buds burst February 7.
Water.
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 6 ; first leaf unfolded February 18.
Lafayette, Indiana : Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8.
Carolina Poplar (Populus monilifera).
— Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— No response in twigs from University of Pennsylvania, New Brunswick, New Jersey, and Ithaca, New York.
Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Auburn, Alabama: No response.
Copper sulphate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 14.
New Brunswick, New Jersey : First leaf unfolded February 1 1 .
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8.
Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves unfolded February 21; first leaf withered March 7; all leaves withered March 11.
The twigs from Lansing, Michigan, and Lafayette, Indiana, showed no reaction.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 11.
Twigs from Ithaca, New York, showed no response.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 7.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4.
3 The localities are given in the table at the beginning of the experimental data Ammonium nitrate (strong).
— Lansing, Michigan: No response.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8.
Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 18; first leaf withered February 15; all leaves withered February 24.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 15.
Ithaca, New York: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7.
Twigs from College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca, New York, showed no response.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— No response in twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, Lansing, Michigan, and Auburn, Alabama.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 8; first leaf unfolded February 14; all leaves unfolded February 24; first leaf withered February 24.
Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 5.
New Brunswick, New Jersey: No response.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 4 ; first leaf unfolded February 14; all leaves unfolded February 18; first leaf withered February 21; all leaves withered February 24.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds burst February 3.
Auburn, Alabama: First leaf unfolded February 4; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 15.
Twigs from New Brunswick, New Jersey, Lansing, Michigan, Storrs, Connecticut, Lafayette, Indiana, Auburn, Alabama, Lexington, Kentucky, showed no response in strong sodium bicarbonate, weak potassium bisulphate, weak hydrochloric acid.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst February 1.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 7.
Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds burst February 14; first leaf unfolded February 14; first leaf withered March 14.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds burst February 8; first leaf unfolded February 8.
Nitric Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 7.
Auburn, Alabama : No response.
Chromic Acid (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 11 ; all leaves unfolded February 21 ; first leaf withered February 28; all leaves withered March 4.
Auburn, Alabama: No response.
Water.
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 14; first leaf unfolded February 28; first leaf withered February 24, while this branch showed green leaves on March 14.
Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds burst February 14; first leaf unfolded February 14.
New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds burst February 7 ; first leaf unfolded February 8 ; all leaves unfolded February 28; roots appeared on March 14 and the branch was still green.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Lexington, Kentucky : Leaf buds eased February 6, as also those from Auburn, Alabama.
Red Maple (Acerrubrum).
— The only responses obtained with branches of the red maple from the localities noted in the table at the beginning of the experimental data were with those from Lansing, Michigan, placed in sodium bicarbonate.
The flower buds eased on January 25; flower buds burst on January 27 ; first flower withered on January 29 ; all the flowers withered on January 30.
The twigs from New Brunswick, New Jersey, in water show their leaf buds burst on February 11; on February 15 the first leaf had unfolded.
The leaf buds on branches from Ithaca, New York, burst on February 18.
Horse Chestnut (JZsculus hippocastanum) .
— Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 21.
Copper sulphate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 30; leaf buds burst February 4.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 11.
Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 8; all leaves unfolded February 14; first leaf withered February 18; all leaves withered February 24.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 7; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 18.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— Ithaca, New York: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 7.
Ammonium oxalate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 11.
Ithaca, New York: Leaf buds eased February 14.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 3.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; flower buds burst February 5; first flower withered February 14; all flowers withered February 18.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 8.
Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 18; all leaves withered February 21.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7.
Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 7.
Pennsylvania State College : Leaf buds eased January 30 ; leaf buds burst January 31 ; first leaf unfolded February 11.
New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 11; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 18.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves withered February 18.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 7 ; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves unfolded February 21 ; first leaf withered February 21 ; all leaves withered February 24.
Potassium bisulphate (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey.
Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 5; first leaf unfolded February 7.
Geneva, New York: Leaf buds eased January 30 ; leaf buds burst February 3.
Potassium bisulphatc (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 11.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7 ; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves unfolded February 21 ; all leaves withered February 24.
Hydrochloric Acid (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 11.
Acetic Acid (strong).
— New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased February 5; leaf buds burst February 8.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 4 ; leaf buds burst February 7.
Water.
— 96 [Feb., University of Penna.
Penna.
State College.
New Brunswick, N. J. Ithaca, N.Y. Geneva, N.Y. Storrs, Conn. Lansing, Mich. Lexington , Ky.
Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst Fb.
1.
Fb.
7.
Fb.
11.
Fb.21.
Fb.21.
Fb.
24.
Fb.
1.
Fb.
4.
Fb.
14.
Fb.
18.
Fb.
24.
Fb.
1.
Fb.
7.
Fb.
8.
Fb.
14.
Fb.
15.
Fb.
18.
Ja.
31.
Fb.
1.
Fb.
4.
Fb.
4.
Ja.
31.
Fb.
4.
Fb.
8.
Fb.
14.
Fb.
14.
Fb.21.
Fb.
4.
Fb.
8.
Fb.
11.
Fb 4.
First leaf unfolded.... All leaves unfolded.... First leaf withered .. .
All leaves withered.... Fb.
7.
Fb.
11.
Fb.
18.
Fb.
24.
Fb.
7.
Fb"l4.
Fb.
18.
Fb.
11.
Fl).
14.
The flower buds of twigs from the University of Pennsylvania and Geneva, New York, in water burst on February 15 and February 5 respectively.
Golden Forsythia (Forsythia viridissima) .
— Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased January 31; flower buds burst February 3; flowers open February 7 ; first flower withered February 8.
Corrosive sublimate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased January 30; flower buds eased January 30; flower buds burst January 31 ; flowers opened February 1 ; first flower withered February 5; all flowers withered February 7.
No response with twigs from Pennsylvania State College, Lexington, Kentucky, and Ithaca, New York, in weak and strong copper sulphate and strong sodium chloride.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: Flower buds eased January 27.
Lansing, Michigan: Flowers opened January 28; first flower withered February 3.
Ammonium nitrate (strong).
— Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31.
Ammonium nitrate (weak).
— Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 3; all leaves unfolded February 5; first leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February 24.
Ammonium oxalate (strong).
— Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased February 13; leaf buds burst February 4.
Branches from College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca, New York, gave no reaction.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 3.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 1.
Branches from College Park, Maryland and Ithaca, New York, gave no response.
1909.]
97 Potassium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 4 ; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves withered February IS.
Sodium bicarbonate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased January 31.
Ithaca, New York: No response.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased January 31.
No response was obtained with branches from New Brunswick, New Jersey, Ithaca, New York, Storrs, Connecticut, Lexington, Kentucky, and Geneva, New York, in weak sodium bicarbonate, strong potassium bisulphate, weak potassium bisulphate, strong hydrochloric acid, strong and weak acetic acid, strong and weak nitric acid, weak chromic acid.
Hydrochloric Acid (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 1.
Acetic Acid (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst February 8.
Nitric Acid (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst January 31.
Chromic Acid (weak).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds burst January 29; first leaf unfolded January 30; all leaves unfolded February 18.
Water.
— Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded.... All leaves unfolded.... First leaf withered.... All leaves withered....
Flower buds eased....
Flower buds burst Flowers closed Flowers opened First flower withered All flowers withered.. University of Penna.
Jan. 27.
Jan. 29.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 21.
Feb. 28.
Jan. 31.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 4.
Penna.
State College.
Jan. 30 Feb. 1 Feb. 1 New Brunswick, N.J. Jan. 28, Jan. 29.
Jan. 31, Feb. 24, Jan. 27, Lansing, Mich. Jan. 29.
Feb. 1.
Jan. 25, Jan'."27.
Jan. 28, Jan. 31, Ithaca, N. Y. Geneva, N. Y. Feb. 11 Feb. 24, Jan. 29 Jan. 29 Jan. 30 Feb. 5, Feb. 7, Jan. 28.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 8.
Feb.24.
Jan. 29.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 1.
Feb. 5.
Lexington, Kv.
Jan. 29.
Feb. 3.
Feb.24.
Jan. 30.
Jan. 31.
Feb. 7.
Feb. 8.
Linden {Tilia americana).
— Corrosive sublimate (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Copper sulphate (strong).
— No response in twigs from University of Pennsylvania.
7 Copper sulphate (weak).
— No response exhibited by Storrs, Connecticut; Lansing, Michigan; Lexington, Kentucky.
Sodium chloride (strong).
— Ithaca, New York: No response.
University of Pennsylvania : Leaf buds eased February 7 ; leaf buds burst February 11.
Sodium chloride (weak).
— Storrs, Connecticut: No response.
Ammonium nitrate (strong).
— Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 7.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 18.
No response of twigs from University of Pennsylvania; Ithaca, New York; Storrs, Connecticut; Lexington, Kentucky; Lansing, Michigan; Lafayette, Indiana; Pennsylvania State College; New Brunswick, New Jersey, and Geneva, New York, in weak ammonium nitrate, strong and weak ammonium oxalate, strong and weak potassium chloride, strong and weak sodium bicarbonate, strong potassium bisulphate, strong hydrochloric acid, weak acetic acid, strong and weak nitric acid, strong chromic acid.
Ammonium oxalate (weak).
— Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 11.
Potassium chloride (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 7.
Sodium bicarbonate (weak).
— Leaf buds eased February 5.
Acetic Acid (strong).
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Water.
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7 ; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves unfolded February 14; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24.
New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 11.
Ithaca, New York: Leaf buds burst February 7.
Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 7.
Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 6.
Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 4.
Yulan Magnolia (Magnolia conspicua).
— Corrosive sublimate (strong) : University of Pennsylvania : Flower buds eased January 27.
No response of twigs from University of Pennsylvania or New Brunswick, New Jersey, in strong ammonium oxalate, potassium chloride, sodium bicarbonate (strong), potassium bisulphate (strong) and chromic acid (strong).
Water.
— University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds burst January 31; first leaf unfolded February 3; all leaves unfolded February 7; all leaves withered February 18; flower buds eased January 25; flowers opened January 27; first flower withered January 29; all flowers withered January 30.
New Brunswick, New Jersey : Leaf buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 5 ; all leaves withered February 14.
Lafayette, Indiana: No response.
Conclusions Based on Experiments.
The experiments of the second year corroborate those of the first year in many particulars.
First, it will be noticed that in every case where the twigs responded, they followed the sequence already established among the branches from the same locality.
In the first experiments, the phenologic sequence was established by contrasting the development of plants out of doors with those treated experimentally in the greenhouse, and it was found, as before emphasized, that the bud development in chemical solutions followed the same order as out of doors.
The experiments of the second year go to prove the same thing.
However, we know that in general pear trees blossom earlier than apple trees; that Forsythia flowers earlier than the horse chestnut; that the male catkins of the Carolina poplar appear earlier than the flowers of the linden and the oak throughout the Eastern United States at large.
By correspondence with the stations from which the twigs were obtained the following phenologic data was secured that shows the sequence of bud development: 4 Amherst, Massachusetts.
— 1, Morello Cherry; 2, Baldwin Apple; 3, York Imperial Apple; 4, Bartlett Pear; 5, Seckel Pear.
Ithaca, New York.
— 1, Red Maple; 2, Forsythia viridissima ; 3, Carolina Poplar; 4, Kieffer Pear; 5, Seckel Pear; 6, Horse Chestnut.
Geneva, New York.
— 1, Early Crawford Peach; 2, Duchess de Angouleme Pear; 3, Maiden Blush Apple; 4, Seckel Pear; 5, York Imperial Apple; 6, Baldwin Apple; 7, Red Astrachan Apple; 8, Bartlett Pear; 9, Winesap Apple.
Pennsylvania State College (average for ten years).
— 1, Forsythia viridissima; 2, Horse Chestnut; 3, Morello Cherry; 4, Carolina Poplar; 5, Tulip Poplar; 6, Kieffer Pear; 7, Pin Oak; 8, Linden.
College Park, Maryland.
— 1, Forsythia viridissima; 2, Early Crawford Peach; 3, Oldmixon Peach; 4, Late Crawford Peach; 5, Kieffer Pear; 6, Duchess de Angouleme Pear; 7, Seckel Pear; 8, Red Astrachan 4 Replies were obtained from Lafayette, Indiana, and New Brunswick, New Jersey, but these stations were unable to furnish any phenologic data.
No replies were obtained from the stations in Connecticut, Michigan and Alabama.
Apple; 9, Early Harvest Apple; 10, Maiden Blush Apple; 11, York Imperial Apple.
Lexington, Kentucky.
— 1, Tulip Poplar; 2, Oldmixon Free Peach; 3, Carolina Poplar; 4, Horse Chestnut; 5, Linden.
This general sequential development is preserved in the experimental liquids.
The same phenomenon with reference to the action of poisons was emphasized in the experiments of the second year.
As the data will show, buds were eased and many burst by the stimulating action of the various chemicals.
In some instances the leaves unfolded, flower buds opened and such leaves and flowers reached their normal size.
This was notably the case with flowers of Forsythia viridissima (Pennsylvania State College) in strong corrosive sublimate solution, with the leaves of the Seckel pear (College Park, Maryland) in the same solution, with the leaves and flowers of the Kieffer pear (from Michigan) in the weak corrosive sublimate, with the leaves of Populus monilifera (Auburn, Alabama) in weak copper sulphate solution, with the Bartlett pear flowers (Amherst, Massachusetts) in weak copper sulphate, with the York Imperial apple (Amherst, Massachusetts) in weak sodium chloride, with the horse chestnut ( Pennsylvania State College) leaves in strong sodium chloride, with the York Imperial apple (Amherst, Massachusetts) leaves in weak sodium chloride, with the red maple (Lansing, Michigan) flowers in weak sodium chloride, with the Forsythia (Lexington, Kentucky) flowers in strong ammonium nitrate, with the Populus monilifera (Auburn, Alabama) leaves in the same solution.
In the weak ammonium nitrate solution, the leaves of the Forsythia twigs from Pennsylvania State College reached full size, as did those of Populus monilifera from Philadelphia in strong potassium chloride and the flowers of the Bartlett pear (Lansing, Michigan) in weak potassium chloride.
The flowers of Clapp Favorite and Kieff er pears opened when the twigs were placed in weak potassium bisulphate, as also the leaves of the Kieffer pear twigs from Lafayette, Indiana.
In weak acetic acid solution, the leaves of the Red Astrachan apple (Auburn, Alabama) opened fully wide.
The flowers of the Maiden Blush (College Park, Maryland) opened when the twigs were placed in the weak chromic acid solution.
But eventually, with but few exceptions, all of the twigs succumbed, many after the first green leaf had been formed.
The strong solutions of copper sulphate, potassium bisulphate, hydrochloric and nitric acids seemed to be arrestive and deadly, because very few of the twigs even responded when placed in these solutions.
These results, it seems to the writer, are corroborative of the principle 101 that response is not arrested until the poison has actually penetrated and killed the living cells, thus putting a stop to the suctional activity and responsive power of the living cells.
The poisons enumerated, being perhaps more easily conducted, act at once in killing the cells, which with other poisons are stimulated long before they are eventually killed.
Bose (loc.
cit, 383) has demonstrated this differential activity of poisonous solutions in a number of his experiments.
Among various solutions of salt, some are physiologically neutral in their effects; of these potassium nitrate may be taken as an example.
Others, again, like a strong solution of sodium chloride, act as excitatory agents.
The application of this last reagent is known to initiate rhythmic excitation in animal tissues.
Similar effects have been shown to be brought about by this reagent in the case of Biophytum and Desmodium.
Thus in a strong solution of potassium nitrate we have a reagent whose physiologic action is more or less neutral, while its osmotic action is pronounced, and in a strong solution of common salt we have an agent which is both excitatory and osmotic at the same time.
If, then, we apply K NO 3 solution to the base of a cut stem, placed in the shoshungraph (Bose's apparatus), water will be osmotically withdrawn from the plant in opposition to normal suction, and the normal suctional rate will be somewhat reduced.
On the application of copper sulphate, the suctional movement, Bose found, was quickly arrested, and this was followed almost immediately by a slight movement in the negative direction ; showing that by some spasmodic contraction water was expelled from the tissue.
This phase was succeeded by an almost complete arrest of suction, there being now only the feeblest ascensional movement.
Within a short period after this, on washing off the poisonous reagent, it was found that the arrest had been temporary only, suction being renewed at the rate of eleven instead of the normal fifteen cubic mm.
per minute.
The poison was applied once more and allowed to act for thirty-six hours.
The arrest was then found to be permanent — that is to say, the substitution of fresh water induced no revival of response, the plant being killed throughout.
It is interesting to note that the twigs experimented with at the University of Pennsylvania responded after a much longer time interval than thirty-six hours, as noted in the experimental data above.
It will be noted also that the sequence between northern and southern grown twigs was preserved in the experimental liquids.
If the results obtained in the chemical solutions are contrasted with those in the water, it will be found that the buds on branches obtained from 102 [Feb., northern localities responded much more quickly than did those from southern localities.
Thus in water the leaf buds of the Red Astrachan apple from Storrs, Connecticut, burst on February 4; those from Lansing, Michigan, on February 6, and those from Auburn, Alabama, on February 11 — a difference of a week between the more northern and the more southern localities.
The leaf buds of the York Imperial apple burst in water on January 31 from Geneva, New York; 5 February 3 from Amherst, Massachusetts; February 4 from Storrs, Connecticut; February 11 from College Park, Maryland, and February 15 from Auburn, Alabama.
A reference to the experimental data will show practically the same sequence throughout, the buds on northern grown twigs always opening before those on southern grown ones.
The sequence of the bud development in the chemical solutions proceeded as above indicated for the twigs in water.
The buds on twigs of the same species, where comparison is possible, from northern localities opened first in the same chemical and those of southern localities followed as indicated below; Weak Corrosive sublimate (Kieffer Pear).
— Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased February 4.
Leaf buds burst February 7.
Weak Copper sulphate (Maiden Blush Apple).— Lansing, Mich.
Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst February 1.
Weak Sodium chloride (York Imperial Apple).
— Amherst, Mass.
Leaf buds eased January 31.
Leaf buds burst February 4.
First leaf unfolded February 5.
Strong Ammonium nitrate (Kieffer Pear).
— Lafayette, Ind.
Leaf buds eased January 30.
Leaf buds burst January 31.
First leaf unfolded February 4.
Lafayette, Ind.
January 31.
February 3.
Auburn, Ala. February 7.
February 8.
Storrs, Conn. February 4.
February 5.
February 7.
Auburn, Ala. January 31.
February 4.
February 7.
5 Geneva, New York, although geographically south of Amherst, Massachusetts, is probably climatically more northern.
1909.]
103 Weak Potassium chloride (York Imperial Apple).
Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased February 1.
Leaf buds burst February 3.
Auburn, Ala. February 14.
February 15.
Strong Sodium bicarbonate (JUsculus hippocastanum).
— University of Pennsylvania.
Leaf buds eased February 1 .
Leaf buds burst February 7.
First leaf unfolded Penna.
State College.
January 30.
January 31.
February 11.
Weak Sodium bicarbonate (Red Astrachan Apple).
Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased February 1.
Leaf buds burst First leaf unfolded February 4.
(Clapp Favorite Pear).
— New Brunswick, N.J. February 4.
February 7.
February 11.
Auburn, Ala. Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased January 31.
Leaf buds burst February 3.
(Populus monilifera).
— Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased Leaf buds burst February 1.
First leaf unfolded Lexington, Ky. February 7.
February 7.
February 7.
February 21.
Lansing, Mich. February 1.
Auburn, Ala. February 14.
February 14.
(JEsculus hippocastanum).
— Lansing, Mich.
Leaf buds eased February 4.
Leaf buds burst February 7.
First leaf unfolded February 11.
Lexington, Ky. February 3.
February 7.
February 11.
In this case the buds developed coincidently from widely separated localities upon a European forest tree.
Is this an evidence that Msculus hippocastanum is not acclimated, or an evidence that as a more plastic species that it is more thoroughly so.
Yet in the next experiment there is a difference.
Strong Potassium bisulphate (jEsculus hippocastanum).
— Geneva, N. Y.
New Brunswick, N. J.
Leaf buds eased January 30.
February 4.
Leaf buds burst February 3.
February 5.
Weak Potassium bisulphate (Clapp Favorite Pear).
— Lansing, Mich. Storrs, Conn.
Leaf buds eased January 30.
January 30.
Leaf buds burst February 1.
First leaf unfolded February 3.
February 4.
(Kieffer Pear).
— Lafayette, Ind.
Lansing, Mich.
Leaf buds eased February 3.
Leaf buds burst January 29.
First leaf unfolded February 5.
February 3.
(JEsculus hippocastanum).
— Lansing, Mich. Lexington, Ky.
Leaf buds eased February 3.
February 4.
Leaf buds burst February 7 .
February 7.
First leaf unfolded February 11.
February 11.
The same coincidence of dates will be noticed with this tree as noted above.
The response is more rapid with the more northern tree than with the more southern, but the subsequent development runs parallel as to the dates at which the various manifestations of development occur.
Weak Hydrochloric Acid (Kieffer Pear).
— Lansing, Mich. Lafayette, Ind.
Leaf buds eased January 29.
January 30.
Leaf buds burst January 31.
January 31.
Strong Acetic Acid (JEscidus hippocastanum).
— University of New Brunswick, Pennsylvania.
N. J.
Leaf buds eased January 31.
February 5.
Leaf buds burst February 7.
February 8.
Weak Acetic Acid (Red Astrachan Apple).
— Storrs, Conn. Auburn, Ala.
Leaf buds eased February 5.
Leaf buds burst February 3.
February 7.
First leaf unfolded February 4.
February 14.
Weak Nitric Acid (Red Astrachan Apple).
— Storrs, Conn. Auburn, Ala.
Leaf buds eased February 4.
February 7.
Leaf buds burst February 5.
February 11.
Weak Chromic Acid.
— Lansing, Mich. Auburn, Ala." Leaf buds eased February 4.
Leaf buds burst February 8.
February 11.
First leaf unfolded February 1 1 .
February 14.
The fact that there is such a difference between the time when the leaf and flower buds of the same variety and species of fruit and forest trees open is an index of the extent of their acclimatization.
The native trees have, since their migration from the original forest centre, been acclimated to their new localities of growth, while the introduced fruit trees since their introduction to America have become similarly ameliorated to the American climate, so that they react in nature and in the experimental culture solutions exactly as do the native plants.
Bearing of Experimental Data on the Advent of Spring.
The climatic differences between the north and the south, representing the amount of acclimatization which each species has had to adopt, may be demonstrated by a study of the advent of spring.
The temperature of 42.8° F. (6° C.) is that at which the protoplasmic contents of the ordinary plant find the limits of their activity.
The advent of spring may be considered as taking place at the approach of an isotherm one degree higher, or 43.8° F. This isotherm, progressing steadily in Map illustrating the advance of the isotherm of spring (43.8° F.), as well as the regions ( ) and stations (#) from which the experimental twigs were obtained.
e Started two days later.
its advance across the United States, is illustrated in the accompanying map which was constructed from the recorded mean temperatures for 15 years from 1870-1885.
7 This line may be regarded as the edge of spring.
In the Gulf States there is no true advent of spring.
On February 1 the isotherm in question crosses the United States from the vicinity of Cape Hatteras on the east to the north of El Paso, then turns northwestward and reaches the Pacific coast some distance north of San Francisco.
The advance on the first of successive months is illustrated by the map.
Spring may be said to begin in our most northern locality, Lansing, Michigan, about May 1.
Auburn, Alabama, lies below the isotherm of February 1.
We therefore have a difference of three months in the awakenment of vegetation under the influence of the advent of spring conditions.
Yet in our experimental cultures no such great discrepancy existed, because the heat of the greenhouse is more uniform (not so fluctuating), and yet, notwithstanding the fact that the interval between the ■ successive events is shortened, nevertheless the same phenologic sequence is maintained as described above.
The difference of three months in the advent of spring between the most northern and the most southern of our localities indicates the real amount of acclimatization of the same species and race growing in the different places from which the experimental material was obtained.
That is, the growing season of trees and shrubs is very much abbreviated compared with the growing season in more southern situations.
Three months difference is a very appreciable amount between the northern and southern States, and the fact that such fruit trees as the Maiden Blush apple and the Kicffer pear can be grown in Michigan and Alabama is noteworthy as an instance of acclimatization of the most pronounced type.
In Alabama the growing season is about nine months long, from February 1 to November 1.
In Michigan the growing season begins May 1 and is completed by the beginning of October, a length of about five and a half months.
The fact that many of the fruit trees mentioned above did not take kindly to the American climate, and that they afterwards became adapted to its wide range of climatic conditions is proof of their acclimatization.
Yet some doubt that acclimatization occurs.
A writer in Forest Leaves (XI : 108) says that "Trees are fixed, almost inflexible, in their habits.
For centuries, indeed as long as we have record, each species has kept in its beaten ways, insisting on the same average of temperature and refusing to 7 Harrington, Mark W.: The Advent of Spring.
Harper's Magazine, May, 1S94.
grow where this could not be, seeking and occupying certain kinds of soil and demanding certain amounts of moisture and avoiding situations where these were wanting. "
In connection with the experiments which have preceded, some experimental data from other sources should be given in order to prove that organisms can be acclimated, that is can be inured or habituated to conditions at first injurious to them.
A reference to the short bibliography of acclimatization at the end of this paper will enable the investigator to obtain the additional evidence of acclimatization which it is not possible to review.
The experimental data for animals and plants is here given.
General Experimental Work on Acclimatization.
Among invertebrates Loew 8 has found in Owen's Lake, California, the alkaline waters of which contain among other things 2.5% of Na 2 C0 3 , numerous living infusoria, Copepoda, larva?
of Ephydra and molds.
Again the vinegar eel, Rhabditis aceti, lives in a 4% solution of acetic acid, although this strength is usually fatal: e. g., a 0.23% solution of acetic acid kills the tentacles of Drosera, according to Darwin.
Beudant accustomed fresh-water animals to salt water.
He used Lymnea, Physa, Planorbis, Ancyclus, Paludina and some other fresh-water mollusks.
He began in April by putting these organisms into a 1% NaCl solution, and, continuing to add salt slowly, by September many of these withstood a 4% solution, a solution which kills animals suddenly subjected to it.
He performed the reverse experiment upon marine mollusca, bringing them to live in fresh water by gradually diluting the medium.
According to MacDougal, 9 Lopriori found that while the streaming movements of protoplasm were inhibited by exposure to an atmosphere of one part oxygen and four parts carbon dioxide, yet if the plant were first exposed to a mixture of 25 parts of oxygen and 75 of carbon dioxide for a time, it might then be brought successively into atmospheres containing 80, 85, 90, 95 and even 100 parts of the gas without immediate injury.
Organisms can be acclimatized to extreme temperatures.
Davenport (loc.cit., 249) cites illustrations of both.
Few active organisms can withstand a temperature of over 45° C, and for whole groups like Ccelenterata, marine mollusca, Crustacea and fishes 40° is a point of death.
There are plant and animal organisms that cany on their life processes in hot springs.
Simple plants like Chroococcus, Nostoc, Anabcena, Leptothrix, Oscillaria, etc., s Davenport, C. B.: Experimental Morphology, p. 28, 9 Textbook of Plant Physiology, 57. exist in springs where the temperature ranges from 45° to 93° C. Rotifers and Anguillulidse were found in the Carlsbad Springs of Bohemia at a temperature of 44° to 54° ; Cypris balnearia occurred in water 45° to 50.5° and Stratiomys larva at 69° in a hot spring in Colorado.
But the experiments of Dallinger are remarkable illustrations of gradual acclimatization.
He kept Flagellata in a warm oven for many months.
Beginning with a temperature of 15.6° C. he employed the first four months in raising the temperature 5.5°; this, however, was not necessary, since the rise to 21° can be made rapidly, but for success in higher temperatures he found it best to proceed slowly from the beginning.
When the temperatures had been raised to 23° the organisms began drying, but soon ceased, and after two months the temperature was raised half a degree more and eventually to 25.5°.
Here the organisms began to succumb again, but finally after several years of treatment Dallinger succeeded in rearing the organisms in a temperature of 70° C. The same acclimatization to cold may be shown.
Thus the swarm spores of a marine alga were liberated when the temperature of the water was between 1.5° and 1.8° C. We can exemplify this kind of acclimatization in the higher plants.
Our treatment of the twigs from various localities demonstrates that this kind of acclimatization was operative in the past with each tree species.
Sweet peas raised in Calcutta from seed imported from England rarely blossom and never yield seed; plants from French seed flower better, but are still sterile; but those raised from Darjeeling seed (originally imported from England) both flower and seed profusely, according to Wallace.
10 Speaking of the introduction of the Sea Island cotton into the United States, Wight 11 says that (Gossypium barbadense and G. vitifolium) they were with much difficulty introduced into North America owing to the shortness of the summer season.
The former (Sea Island), indeed, could not be established until a fortunate occurrence of a very mild winter permitted the roots to live through it and produce an early crop of fresh shoots in the spring.
These bore and ripened, the seed of which was found sufficiently hardy to resist the cold of spring and matured a crop of excellent cotton in the course of the succeeding autumn.
Indian corn develops local varieties with extreme readiness, but they seldom succeed when transferred even short distances, at least until time enough for acclimatization has elapsed.
E. Davenport sent a standard white Illinois corn, ripening in about 10 Encyclopedia Britannica, article "Acclimatization."
11 Watt, Sir George: The Wild and Cultivated Cotton Plants of the World, 1907, p. 272.
120 days and capable of maximum yields (75 bushels per acre), to be grown in Michigan, Wisconsin, Maine and Mississippi.
In Maine it failed to ripen, but at all other points it ripened in about 100 days, producing small, inferior ears.
That it should hurry through its period of growth at the north was not surprising, but that it should do so in the south is unaccountable.
12 The season of maize varies from six months in the elevated plains of Santa Fe in South America to four months in the middle United States and two and onehalf months in the rainy lake district northwest of Lake Superior.
13 Peach trees from central Georgia blossom ten to twelve days later in Virginia and Maryland than do those of the same variety from New Jersey or New York.
As peach trees are propagated by buds we may regard the Georgia and New Jersey trees, being of the same variety, as parts of the same individual.
The foregoing citations indicate that acclimatization does occur, and that in the case of the experimental twigs the differences in the time of the bud development illustrates that acclimatization has taken place to the extent of a variation in habit as to their seasonal development, emphasized in the acclimatization of the cotton, corn and peach previously described.
The response of the buds in the chemical solutions was an immediate one, and at a season of the year when all of the twigs from widely separated stations (north and south) were in a dormant condition.
The advantage of these experiments in demonstrating the above conclusions is marked over the growth of such trees in the forest, or in the orchard, for the reason that as to temperature all of the twigs were exposed equally to the same amount, and those placed in the pure water were under practically the same conditions, while the chemical solutions provided enough of different conditions under experimental control which would produce alterations in the time and method of response, if such could be produced by experimental means.
The results have already been summarized.
Bibliography.
Bailey, L. H.: Survival of the Unlike.
1896 : 320-333.
Acclimatization: Does it Occur?
Bose, Jagadis Chunder: Plant Response as a Means of Phvsiological Investigation, 1906: 361, 382-383, 386-387.
Cannon, W. A.: Acclimatization of Plants.
The Plant World.
XI: 113-114, May, 1908.
■Carlier, M. A.: Memoire sur l'Acclimatement des Races en Amerique.
Paris, 1867, pp.
55.
12 Davenport, E.: Principles of Breeding, 1907, p. 222.
13 Bailey, L. H.: Survival of the Unlike, 1896, p. 329.
Darwin, Charles: Animals and Plants under Domestication.
Origin of Species.
1859: 112.
Davenport, Charles B.: Experimental Morphology.
1897: 27, 85, 249.
Davenport, Eugene : Principles of Breeding.
1907 f 222, 255, 257, 260, 308-316.
Forest Leaves: Trees Cannot be Acclimatized.
XI: 108.
February, 1908.
Harshberger, John W.: Vegetation of the Yellowstone Hot Springs.
American Journal of Pharmacy.
LXIX: 625.
Harrington, Mark W.: The Advent of Spring.
Harper's Monthly Magazine.
May, 1894, p. 874.
MacDougal, D. T.: Textbook of Plant Physiology.
1901: 20, 56, 92.
Influence of Altitude and Climatic Factors upon Vegetation : Acclimatization 5th Year Book Carnegie Institution of Washington.
1907: 121.
Morgan.
Thomas H.: Evolution and Adaptation.
1903: 319.
Pfepfer, W.: Pflanzenphysiologie, 1897-1904.
Accomodation Begrenztheit derselben, II: 81, 90, 246; an Concentrationen, I: 415; II: 128, 137; an Gifte, II: 243, 247, 337; an Sauerstoffpressung, I: 548, 551; II: 131; an Temperatur, II: 91, 292, 302; an Temperatur, Gifte, Concentrationen ist nicht erblich, II: 243, 337.
Schimper, A. F. W.: Pflanzengeographie auf physiologischer Grundlage, 1898: 55-58, with bibliography on page 60.
Vernon, H. M.: Variation in Animals and Plants.
1903: 378.
Wallace, Alfred R,.
: Article Acclimatization in Encyclopedia Britannica, I (1878): 84-90.
Watt, Sir George: The Wild and Cultivated Cotton Plants of the World.
1907: 272, 328.
Woodruff, Major Charles E.: The Effects of Tropical Light on White Men.
1905: 321.
Woods, A. F.: Plant Pathology.
Science, New Ser., XXVI: 541-543.
Oct. 25, 1907.
AN ORTHOPTEROLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN UNITED STATES.
PART II: NEW MEXICO AND WESTERN TEXAS.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN and MORGAN HEBARD.
The first portion of the results of this examination of the southwestern United States, treating of Arizona material, has already been published in these Proceedings.
1 Seven rather distinct regions were examined in the area covered by this paper, notes on the localities being given below.
In addition a number of other localities are represented in the series by lots of from one to six species.
A small lot of material from Fort Wingate, McKinley County, New Mexico, collected by Mr. John Woodgate and now the property of the Academy, has also been examined in this connection.
Mr. Otho Poling, of Quincy, Illinois, assisted in collecting some of the material secured at Deming, while all taken at Albuquerque and Aden was collected by the junior author.
The number of species examined and treated in this report is one hundred and fifteen, of which six prove to be new, while the specimens number one thousand, three hundred and ninety-five.
The types of all the new forms are in the Hebard Collection.
El Paso and Franklin Mountains, El Paso County, Texas.
Altitudes, 3,700 to about 5,600 feet.
July 9 to 11 and 17, 1907.
The vicinity of El Paso may be divided into several regions: first, the low bottom-land along the river, this section being threaded with acequias and a considerable portion is or has been under cultivation; second, a region of low sand dunes slightly northeast of the city, covered with a scattering growth of mesquite ; third, a fairly extensive mesa bordering the Franklin Mountains, very broken and rugged on its eroded marginal slopes where is exposed a sort of caliche as the basis of the mesa, and quite level on the summit, all covered more or less completely with rather uniformly-sized greasewood {Covillea tridentata) bushes, mingled on the rugged base slopes with mesquite (Prosopis velutina) and occasionally tornillo or screw bean (Prosopis odorata) ; fourth, the Franklin Mountains, rising from the mesa to an elevation 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1908, pp.
365-402. of from 5,000 to 7,000 feet.
The latter were ascended to the summit of the South Peak, altitude about 5,600 feet, and found to be desert to that height.
The slopes of this range are covered more or less uniformly on the lower section with greasewood, while the higher portions are sparsely covered with aloes and other desert species.
They were very productive of Orthoptera, Syrbula fuscovittata, Bootettix argentatus, Diapheromera covillece, Pseudosermyle tenuis, Mermiria iexana, Arphia teporata and others being taken.
On the mesa and at the foot of the same the greasewood yielded, among others, Diapheromera covilleo3, Bootettix argentatus, Melanoplus bowditchi, M. herbaceus, Ateloplus macroscelus and Litaneidria skinneri, while Anconia coeruleipennis , Heliastus aridus, Schistocerca vaga, Trimerotropis texana, Psoloessa texana, Derotmema laticinctum and Phrynotettix robustus were found on and about the mesa.
In the sandhill region the character of the Orthoptera was found to be much like that of the mesa, but in the clumps of mesquite Melanoplus glaucipes, M. herbaceus, Moloplus elegans, and Schistocerca shoshone were found.
The low bottom-land is covered in many places with tangles of screw bean (Prosopis odorata), with tall rank weeds in others, and areas of hardened bare adobe are also to be found.
In the tornillo tangles Melanoplus glaucipes, Moloplus elegans, Mermiria bivittata and Diapheromera mesillana were found, while the areas of high weeds harbored JEoloplus elegans, Melanoplus herbaceus, M. aridus, M. atlanis, Stagmomantis sp., and Diapheromera persimilis.
On the bare spots Paropomala virgata, Derotmema laticinctum, Trimerotropis rubripes and Hippiscus corallipes were found.
Alamogordo and Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, Otero County, New Mexico.
Altitude, 4,300 to 5,500 feet.
July 12 and 13, 1907. .
The conditions in the vicinity of Alamogordo have already been treated by Stone and Rehn 2 and Ruthven.
3 Our collecting was restricted to the edge of the mesquite area, on the eastern margin of which the town is situated, and the greasewood slopes leading to Dry Canyon.
The mesquite section was unproductive, while in the greasewood belt Bootettix argentatus, Ectatoderus borealis, Gryllus alogus and Psoloessa texana were secured, but most of them not in such numbers as at El Paso.
In the broken country at the first foothills and in the arroyos at the canyon mouth collecting was more productive, Parabacillus coloradus, Dichopetala brevihastata and Yersinia solitaria 2 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, p. 16.
3 Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist., XXIII, pp.
492-499. being taken and a greater variety of species noticed.
Work was continued up the south arm of Dry Canyon to the broader valleylike portion of the canyon above the spring.
Here pinon (Pinus edulis or cembroides) and juniper (Juniperus pachyphlcea) appeared, giving the canyon bottom a park-like appearance quite different from the sotol (Dasylirion) and ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) covered slopes at the canyon's mouth.
In this region, which is at about 5,500 feet elevation, one Amblycorypha huasteca was beaten from a small green tree, while on the barer slopes at the same elevation several interesting species, such as Yersinia solitaria, Syrbula fuscovittata, Amphitornus ornatus and Melanoplus aridus, were taken.
At night in Alamogordo several species of Orthoptera, such as Derotmema laticinctum, Trimerotropis texana and Gryllus, came to the street lamps, while Coleoptera and Lepidoptera were attracted in the greatest numbers.
Certain species of beetles, as Cicindela lemniscata and Tetracha Carolina, fairly swarmed, and the great moth Marumba occidentalis was by no means uncommon.
Cloudcroft, Sacramento Mountains, Otero County, New Mexico.
Altitude.
8,600 to 8,700 feet.
July 14 to 16, 1907.
This charming spot, situated on the summit of the Sacramento range, does not appear to be on the mountain top except at certain points of lookout, where one looks down on the long slopes and deep canyons of the mountains w T hich sink into the desert plain of the Otero basin or Hueco bolson as it is variously called.
The Cloudcroft region is one of low hills with beautiful open vales between them.
The hills and some of the level areas are covered with magnificent forests, chiefly of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga mucronata), western yellow pine {Pinus ponderosa) and in some places aspen (Populus tremuloides) .
The vales, or "canyons" as they are termed by courtesy, are usually carpeted with numerous grasses and in many places are veritable flower beds.
Many of the forest trees are of immense size, and the rich greens of the region are in striking contrast to the colors of the desert but ten miles away, though some thousands of feet below.
In a grassy field, bounded on one side by a stand of deciduous saplings and on the other by huge firs, we found Gomphocerus clavatus, Melanoplus calidus and M .
atlanis plentiful.
One specimen of Eritettix variabilis was also taken in this location.
Among the firs on the border of this field a single Chloealtis abdominalis was heard striclulating among some low herbage near a stump and was captured.
The very noisy Circotettix undulatus was plentiful in open spots in the forest, along the roads and on bare lumbered slopes.
One Melanoplus altitudinum was found in damp grasses at the junction of two of the glades, and another specimen was taken on a steep hillside in open conifer forest.
In the latter situation Acrydium crassum was also taken.
Search in many pine and fir logs disclosed only a few Ceuthophilus, valgus and uniformis being taken.
The nights were very chilly and no katydids were heard.
The effect of the cool evenings was apparent in the scarcity of Melanoplus calidus and Gomphocerus clavatus before ten in the mornings, both species occurring in numbers in the afternoon.
Aden, Donna Ana County, New Mexico.
Altitude, 4,382 to 5,000 feet.
July 21, 1907.
The plain about this station differs from the greater part of the southern New Mexican desert plains in that it is covered in most places by low grasses, giving it some slight resemblance to the Great Plains.
Over this plain small mesquite bushes are scattered at greater distances than usual.
Near the railroad track the grasses grow in great profusion, reaching in many places a height of nearly a foot.
In this location Orthoptera were found in very great numbers, among the series taken being several plains species not found on the surrounding deserts.
About a quarter of a mile from the station a rounded hill rises directly from the prairie.
This hill is very rocky and covered by a scattered growth of grease wood (Covillea tridentata), and in spite of its elevation of not more than 600 feet above the surrounding plain several mountain-loving species, such as Eritettix variabilis and Arphia teporata, were found on it.
It is interesting to note that such forms of Orthoptera were to be found on this solitary little knob, in spite of its small size, low altitude and the fact that it is several miles distant from the nearest hills.
Deming, Luna County, New Mexico.
Altitude about 4,350 feet.
July 18-21, 1907.
About the town of Deming stretches a typical desert plain, covered with groves of medium-sized mesquite (Prosopis velutina) and large areas of rabbit-weed (Isocoma heterophylla) , broken on the north by the bed of the Mimbres River.
On both sides of this stream-bed are extensive flats of white sand closely dotted with tall yuccas.
These flats average about half a mile to a mile in width and are hard to cross, owing to the loose and yielding sand.
No low vegetation is present on these areas, and but two species of Orthoptera, Trimerotropis texana and laticincta, were taken in the section.
On the north side of the sand and yucca belt, in extensive rabbit-weed tracts, collecting was very productive, Hesperotettix viridis being found in abundance and Pseudosermyle straminea and truncata were taken, the former in numbers, the latter sparingly.
As Deming is a considerable distance from the greasewood slopes at the bases of the nearest mountains (Florida and Cook's ranges), those areas were too distant to be examined on foot.
The interesting roach Homceogamia eiratica was found at night about lights in the town, while Hormilia eleyans was attracted the same way.
Florida Mountains, Luna County, New Mexico.
Altitude, 4,500 to 5,500 feet, July 19, 1907.
By driving fourteen miles across the mesquite plain from Deming and ascending the gradual greasewood slopes the Florida Mountains were reached.
Various stops on the way revealed nothing of special interest in either the mesquite or greasewood areas.
A canyon at the north end of the range, extending southwest under the towering bulk of Capitol Dome, was our objective point.
A small spring which trickled a short distance over the rocks before disappearing proved very attractive to Telmatettix aztecus, which was present in numbers on the damp spots.
The slopes of the canyon were rugged and steep, but we ascended the east face to about 5,500 feet elevation.
On the semibarren slope, with here and there a holly-like scrub oak and numerous scattered mountain bushes, the former often with a precarious hold between boulders, Orthoptera were not uncommon and in character were very interesting.
Among the species found were Yersinia solitaria, Mermiria texana, Melanoplus aridus, Mestobregma plattei and Trimerotropis cyaneipennis.
The steepness of the ascent and the short length of time at our disposal prevented us from reaching the summit of the mountains.
The slopes at the foot of the mountains did not yield even moderately good collecting and but two or three common species were taken.
Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico.
Altitude, 5,900 feet.
July 20, 1907.
About one-half day was spent at Silver City, collecting on the rounded hills west of the town.
Various short grasses scantily covered the tops and slopes of these hills, with here and there in the ravines and valleys clumps of juniper.
Collecting was not very productive, the only species worthy of note being Aulocara rufum (the first New Mexican record), Cordillacris apache, Stirapleura pusilla and Trimerotropis melanoptera.
Albuquerque, Bernalillo County, New Mexico.
Altitude about 4,900 feet.
September 14, 1907.
Nearly all the collecting at Albuquerque was accomplished near the river in low grassy fields and areas of cultivated ground.
In this location Orthoptera were found in great numbers, but collecting was made difficult by the swarms of mosquitoes which were everywhere very active and vicious.
On areas of short grass were found Encoptolophus texensis, Litaneutria skinneri, Paropomala calamus and virgata and Mermiria bivittata, while in the higher and more succulent growths of heavy weeds, clover and grasses many Melanoplus bivittatus, M. femur-rubrum, M. differentialis and Nemobius utahensis were found.
A single specimen of Telmatettix aztecus was captured by a pool beside the river and one other specimen was seen.
In the arid foothill section but two specimens of Trimerotropis fascicula and one or two T. vinculata were found.
BLATTID^E.
BLATTELLA Caudell.
Blattella germanioa (Linnaeus).
A specimen of this cosmopolitan species was attracted to light at Deming, July 20.
TEMNOPTERYX Brunner.
Temnopteryx desertae n. sp.
Type: 9 ; Johnstone, Valverde Co., Texas.
July 8, 1907.
M. Hebard.
[Hebard Collection.]
A very peculiar species with lateral, non-attingent tegmina.
Its relationship is closer to T. limbata Saussure from eastern Mexico and T. lobipennis Saussure from Brazil than to any other species of the genus, differing from the former in the more elongate and non-attingent tegmina, which reach to the apical margin of the first abdominal segment, and in the shorter and thicker cerci; from the latter in the proportionately shorter tegmina and much smaller general size.
In general appearance the resemblance of the species to those of the genus Loboptera is very great, but the wings are present as distinct, articulate though functionless appendages, which is not the case with Loboptera.
Size small; form depressed, ovate.
Head with the occipital outline arcuate and distinctly projecting beyond the pronotum; space between the eyes great, slightly more than that between the ocellar spots.
Pronotum slightly broader than longer, moderately arcuate transversely, lateral and cephalic margins slightly thickened, cephalic margin arcuato-truncate, lateral margins moderately arcuate, caudo-lateral angles rounded rectangnlate, caudal margin very slightly arcuate; caudal portion of the disk with a pair of shallowly impressed areas.
Tegmina about equal to the pronotum in length, elongate trigonal, reaching to the margin of the first abdominal segment, the greatest width contained one and one-half times in the length; costal margin straight, arcuate at the base and at the apex, sutural margin arcuate, the apex very narrowly rounded; anal vein distinct, * f arcuate, reaching the sutural margin l >gsw I distad of the middle, costal field separated \V^ /■ .
.
~~\'\A by a moderately impressed line; space f^ At^Mjl ^ \ between the tegmina about equal to the / A ''"A--', £L \ width of one of them.
Wings falling / mi^^^S^\ \ slightly short of the tips of the tegmina.
y^A^^^^^V^ Mesonotmn and metanotum with their '' \i '~^^^^^ \\ % margins truncate.
Abdomen with its J Tr \ greatest width distinctly exceeding that * » of the pronotum; proximal dorsal segment Fig.
l.—Temnopteryx desertce ■xi .1 , .,, ,, n. sp.
Dorsal view of type.
with the margin arcuate, second with the (x 3.)
margin slightly arcuate, third, fourth and fifth sub-truncate, sixth and seventh arcuate-emarginate, eighth arcuateemarginate laterad and produced obtuse-angulate mesad; supra-anal plate trigonal, apex rectangulate, medio-longitudinal carina blunt; subgenital plate moderately arcuate in transverse section, margin arcuate, truncate mesad ; cerci distinctly but not greatly exceeding the subgenital plate, heavy, depressed, fusiform, apex moderately sharp.
Limbs so badly damaged that the spine formula cannot be satisfactorily determined.
General color of the head and pronotum ochraceous, becoming paler toward the lateral margin of the pronotum ; color of the abdomen and thoracic segments except the cephalic half of the mesonotmn which is ochraceous, chestnut, venter of the abdomen chestnut mesad becoming ochraceous laterad, subgenital plate tawny ochraceous, venter of the thorax and limbs pale buff.
Eyes black; tegmina chestnut with the costal portion pale buff; cerci burnt sienna edged with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body, 9.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 " Greatest width of pronotum.
4.1 " Length of tegmen, 3 " Greatest width of abdomen, 5.2 " The unique type was found upon overturning a small boulder on the bare desert.
HOM(EOGAMIA Burmeister.
Homoeogamia erratica Rehn.
At Deming, July 18 to 20 , a series of eleven males of this species was collected at night about electric lights in the town.
All the specimens were taken on rough walls or screens upon which a light shone, excepting one specimen which was flying about a light, much in the manner of a Noctuid, but not so erratic.
There is in the lot an appreciable amount of variation in size, and in a few specimens the disk of the pronotum is darker than in others.
In all of the eleven individuals the interspace between the ocelli is greater than that between the eyes, although in one specimen the difference is very slight.
This is the first exact record of the species from New Mexico.
MANTID^E.
YERSINIA Saussure.
Yersinia solitaria Scudder.
On rocky slopes and ledges and on scattered boulders at altitudes of from 4,300 to 6,000 feet this species appears at home.
Perfectly protected by its coloration which harmonizes with its environment, it is with considerable difficulty that individuals are located.
When disturbed they spring very quickly to a new resting-place, often jumping as much as six inches, frequently repeating their spring several times until a place of safety is reached.
A series of twenty-six specimens was taken at the following localities : Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, 4,900-5,500 feet, July 13, two males and two females; Aden, 4,386 feet, July 21, one male; Florida Mountains, 5,100-5,200 feet, July 19, eight males, five females; Silver City, 5,900 feet, July 20, four males, one female and two with the sex not determinable as the apex of the abdomen is missing in both.
The majority of the individuals collected are immature, but several from Dry Canyon, a number from the Florida Mountains and one from Silver City are fully adult.
Adult males from the Florida Mountains range from 19 to 22 mm.
in length of body, while mature females from the same locality show extremes of 18 and 25 mm.
In color numerous shades are present — clay color, ochraceous, orange-red, wood brown, seal brown and greenish-yellow, one specimen being parti-color, the head, proand mesothorax and limbs pale orange-red, the remainder of the body very pale ochraceous.
Two males and two females from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken September 15-16, 1908, by John Woodgate, have also been examined.
The records given herewith are the first published ones of the species from southern New Mexico, while the known range extends from western Nebraska and southwestern Colorado south to central southern New Mexico and southeastern Arizona.
LITANETITRIA Saussure.
Litaneutria skinneri Rehn.
At El Paso this interesting species was taken in three quite different situations : swept from dry grass in sandy ground along the Rio Grande, July 10 (one cJ* ) ; swept from greasewood on edge of mesa, 4,200 feet, July 11 (one 9 ), and taken from the bare face of a precipitous rock at 5,000 feet elevation in the Franklin Mountains, July 9 (one 9 ).
One male and two females were taken on dry bunch grass at Albuquerque on September 14, while five immature specimens (two d\ three 9) taken at Aden, July 21, on grass prairie, and at Silver City, July 20, are provisionally referred to this species.
The Albuquerque females and the Franklin Mountains individual are equal to the female type in size, while the other El Paso female is distinctly smaller and less robust.
The Franklin Mountains specimen is blotched and barred with sealbrown on a pale mars-brown ground, a coloration eminently protective as our field notes mention the blending of this insect's coloring into the surroundings.
The range of this species now extends from the Grand Canyon region, Arizona, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, south to the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, and the vicinity of El Paso, Texas.
STAGMOMANTIS Saussure.
Stagmomantis sp.
Immature specimens of a species of this genus were taken as follows : on irrigated land at El Paso, July 10 and 11; at the east base of the Franklin Mountains, July 9; Alamogordo, July" 13; Aden, July 21, on rabbit weed; Deming, July 18; Silver City, July 20.
Of the eleven specimens before us all are in the green phase except one which has the thorax dark brown.
The Alamogordo specimen is a female nearly mature.
PHASMID^B.
PARABACILLUS Caudell.
Parabacillus coloradus (Scudder).
This peculiar walking stick was encountered at three localities, viz.
: Dry Canyon, 5,000 feet elevation, July 13, two females; Cloudcroft.
8,600 feet elevation, July 15, one male; Aden, 4,400-4,500 feet elevation, July 21, five females.
The Cloudcroft male is apparently mature, the remainder being in about the same stage of the immature condition.
At Aden and in Dry Canyon the species was taken by beating low vegetation, while at Cloudcroft it was captured in a clump of grass under pines and fir.
Two females, taken at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, Nov. 4, 1907, and Sept. 9, 1908, by John Woodgate, have also been examined.
The range of this form now extends from Nebraska and Colorado south to southern New Mexico and west to southern California.
PSEUDOSERMYLE Caudell.
Pseudosermyle straminea (Scudder).
This species was present, July 18, in great numbers on rabbit weed on the plain north of the town of Deming and around the dry bed of the Mimbres River.
A series of twenty-one males, all adult, and four females in various stages of immaturity was taken on that date.
A single male was taken from the same plant on the lower slopes of the Florida Mountains, July 19, while six of the same sex from Aden, July 21, and one other male from Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, taken on July 13, are included in the collection.
Practically all of the specimens were taken by beating, the insects exhibiting a striking reliance upon their protective form and coloration.
When alarmed they held themselves motionless with legs at stiff angles and, upon experimenting with one of the individuals, this was found to be true when it was picked from the bush, and even when dropped upon the sand it retained its rigidity.
In size there is a considerable amount of variation, the extremes of the Deming series of males measuring 40.5 and 47 millimeters in the length of the body.
The form of the male cerci remains essentially the same, some slight but unimportant variations being present.
In coloration there appears to be two types, in the male at least, one olivegreenish, the other greenish-yellow, the whitish lateral lines beingpresent more or less distinctly in all the adult males seen.
The immature females are all yellowish-green, with very faint indications, in one or two individuals, of the lateral lines.
This species was previously known only from the vicinity of Mesilla Park, Donna Ana County, New Mexico.
The range now covers sections of Otero, Donna Ana and Luna Counties.
Pseudosermyle truncata Caudell.
Associated with P. straminea on rabbit weed, three males and one 1909.]
121 female of this species were taken near Deming, July 18, while under similar surroundings at Aden a pair were taken on July 21.
The males are of very similar coloration, the olive green predominating in one or two more than in the others.
The females, however, are quite dissimilar, one being pale yellowish-green, the other pale cupreous green like weathered copper.
The range of this species is now known to extend from Aden, Donna Ana County, New Mexico, to Los Angeles County, California, and from the Grand Canyon region to near the Mexican line.
Pseudosermyle tenuis n. sp.
Type: cT ; Franklin Mountains, altitude 4,500 feet, near El Paso, El Paso County, Texas.
July 9, 1907.
Hebard and Rehn.
[Hebard Collection.]
This new form is a most interesting species, allied to P. banksii Caudell, from eastern and east-central Texas.
Through the kindness of the describer of banksii I have been able to compare the new form with a typical specimen of his species, from which tenuis differs in the slightly more robust build with slightly shorter legs though the body is slightly longer, in the absence of a median carina from the caudal portion of the occiput, in the smoother proximal antennal joint, in the narrower pronotum which is distinctly constricted cephalad, in the less distinctly keeled mesoand metanotum, in the less compressed and more inflated apex of the abdomen, and in the slightly more incurved cerci.
Size medium; form very elongate, extremely slender.
Head slightly longer than the pronotum, decidedly longer than broad, slightly narrower at the caudal margin than immediately caudad of the eyes, a pair of short low sinuate carinse present mesad and extending caudad as far as between the caudal margin of the eyes, these carinse sharply constricted between the antennae and again slightly constricted at a point between the cephalic margin of the eyes, a slight median carina present between the paired caringe caudad; Fig.
2.
— Pseudosermyle tenuis n. sp.
Dorsal view of type.
(Natural size.)
122 [Feb., occiput smooth; eyes slightly depressed, circular in outline, rather small, not prominent; antennse slightly exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length, slender, the joints elongate, the proximal joint with a slight lamellate expansion on the proximointernal portion.
Pronotum narrow, the greatest width (supra-coxal) contained about one and one-half times in the length, the cephalic portion strongly constricted with the lateral margins bent ventrad and the section A -shaped; lateral margins very slightly converging caudad of the middle, the caudal margin truncate, a moderate median transverse and a broken longitudinal sulcus present.
Mesonotum very slightly less than three times the length of the head and pronotum together, arcuate in section, very slightly expanding caudad, a very slight median carination present cephalad, the whole mesonotum elongate sub-cylindrical.
Metanotum including the median segment four-fifths the length of the mesonotum, arcuate in section except caudad where it is flattened, slightly expanding caudad, a slight carination present on all but the median segment, which latter is less than a fifth the length of the metanotum sensu stricttore, with its greatest width (caudal) about equal to the length and the cephalic margin much narrower than the caudal.
Abdomen slightly shorter than the thorax, the five proximal joints subequal in length and similar in character and width, each segment being about three times as long as wide and very slightly widened at the extremities; sixth joint about four-fifths the length of the fifth ; seventh joint slightly longer than the sixth, narrow proximad, inflated dorsad, ventrad and laterad in the distal portion; eighth segment quite short, tapering caudad; ninth segment slightly longer than the eighth segment, moderately inflated but hardly expanded laterad, the distal margin A -shaped when seen from the caudal aspect ; supra-anal plate visible as a point between the bases of the cerci ; subgenital opercule tubular, moderately large, reaching to the distal margin of the eighth segment, the apical valve small with its margin with a slight projection; cerci about as long as the ninth segment, straight when seen from the side, moderately arcuate when seen from the dorsum, rather robust, trifid, the apical pair of processes less robust than the median one which is Fig.
3.
— Pseudosermyle tenuis n. sp.
Dorsal outline of head and pronotum.
(X 4.)
Fig.
4.
— Pseudosermyle tenuis n. sp.
Lateral view of apex of abdomen.
(X 4.)
quite blunt at the apex.
Limbs slender, the femora, particularly the caudal, very slightly bowed dorso-ventrad.
Cephalic femora but slightly shorter than the head, pronotum and mesonotum together, proximal flexure rather sharp ; cephalic tibiae surpassing the head and thorax in length.
Median femora when extended caudad reaching to the middle of the second abdominal segment; median tibiae slightly longer than the femora. '
Caudal femora reaching to the apex of the sixth abdominal segment; caudal tibiae slightly longer than the femora; caudal tarsi with the proximal joint about twothirds the entire length of the same.
General color very pale greenish, becoming buff on the venter and limbs, the head and pronotum ochraceous-buff mesad, a white lateral line extending caudad from the antennae, bordering the eye dorsad and becoming obsolete on the sides of the pronotum.
Apex of the abdomen cream-buff, slightly washed with ochraceous-buff.
Measurements.
Length of body, 65 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.7 " Length of mesonotum, .
17 Length of metanotum (including median segment), .
.
13.3 Length of cephalic femur, 21 Length of median femur, 18 Length of caudal femur, 23 n u a a The unique type was taken on bunch grass on the east slope of the mountains.
Upon being approached it violently shook the stems to which it was clinging, apparently to conceal itself or frighten away its enemies.
Upon experimenting we found the insect would repeat this performance as often as approached.
DIAPHEROMERA Gray.
Diapheromera persimilis Caudell.
Two females, one mature, the other not quite mature, taken on irrigated land along the Rio Grande near El Paso, July 10, are referred to this species ; the mature individual was swept from tornillo or screw bean, the other from thick weeds.
After a careful study of the species of the genus, a tabulation of their more important character in the female sex, and of their measurements, we have reached the conclusion that this species described from the vicinity of Brownsville extends up the Rio Grande valley at least as far as El Paso.
The cerci of the specimens in hand fully answer CaudelFs description in being intermediate in length between those of jemorata and veliei, while the 124 [Feb., measurements as given below with those of the type female of persimilis show the similarity of proportions.
a o 3 bo a 3 a> o P a >* o a a o OS c3 ^3 OS T3 o 03 i> ^ Q, 3 O ?0) 3 ^ <v a cS £> ft a a « u o 5W ^ «w s <*.
<+* .
<*.
O o o o O c* O e3 O eJ rH A 1— 1 fii-G ~ *S *S *S bC bO b£ engt (wil mer m2 to 8 s,a 03 a to a 53 a <2 S3 ^ 53 *" i-5 A h!
a A J (J mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
El Paso 86 60 3.3 2.9 18.1 14.2 15 12.8 20 17 15 12 18.3 El Paso 15 5 Brownsville, type (from Caudell) 78 17 13.5 18.5 14 17.5 The proportions of the El Paso specimens are seen to approximate very closely to those of the type female and we feel justified in considering them persimilis.
Actual comparison with Brownsville females or the acquisition of El Paso males would, however, make the determination more positive.
No very close relationship exists to the Mexican D. calcarata and comparison has been made with females of femorata, veliei 4 and arizonensis.
Diapheromora mesillana Seudder.
Ten females, including one mature specimen and others in three immature stages of growth, appear to represent this species, previously known only from the male sex.
When compared with the species represented by the female sex in the collections before us they are clearly different, as the following comparison shows : Head.
Similar to arizonensis but more depressed.
Pronotum.
Much as in arizonensis, distinctly shorter than in veliei.
Dorsal apical abdominal segments.
Longer and narrower than in femorata, persimilis, and arizonensis, much as in veliei.
Cerci.
Longer than in all but persimilis and veliei, tapering, acute, 4 Brunner (Insektenfam.
Phasm., II, pp.
337, 338) has redescribed this species from Texas under the name dolichocephala.
He entirely overlooked the name veliei as well as the species arizonensis Caudell, Carolina Seudder, mesillana Seudder and persimilis Caudell.
1909.]
125 grooved on the internal face, much shorter than veliei, much more acute and less subequal than in persimilis.
Subgenital opercule.
Nearest to veliei, but blunter.
A key to the females of the five species before us would be as follows : A.— Cerci hardly more than half the length of the eighth abdominal segment.
B.
— Subgenital opercule arcuate at the apex, .
femorata.
BB.
—Subgenital opercule arcuato-truncate at the apex with a distinct median projecting finger, .
.
arizonensis.
A A.
— Cerci decidedly more than half the length of the eighth abdominal segment.
B.
— Apical margin of the subgenital opercule not reaching to the apical margin of the eighth dorsal abdominal segment.
C. — Head narrow, but little exceeding the cephalic width of the mesonotum.
Cerci as long as the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, .
veliei.
CC.
— Head broad, half again as wide as the cephalic width of the mesonotum.
Cerci no more than half the length of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, mesillana.
BB.
— Apical margin of the subgenital opercule reaching to the apical margin of the eighth dorsal abdominal segment, persimilis.
Three of the specimens of mesillana measure as follows : a a 3 o o a rt • O q H c3 o3 03 >-, a O 03 ^ T3 T3 ^ o in +j ft a o a> o> <u a 03 ,a ft £ g w u «4-C <tH «« =►1 (m t*-l o o c o O as O o3 O 03 ,a A ,d A A O ■=i o -*j ■^» to a •*= 1t>c 'oC faO bfi bCS faca a a> a a ££ °<2 a <2 hi J hi hi a J hi mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
mm.
El Paso (adult) 82.5 3.2 18 15.5 18.8 13.5 17 47.2 40.5 2.5 2 11 9 9.8 7.8 13.3 9.6 9.3 7 11 8 Of the series referred to mesillana, a single one (adult) was taken at El Paso on July 17 on mesquite in the desert, an immature individual was collected at the same place on July 10 on the irrigated land along the Rio Grande, while seven in various stages of growth were taken at Deming on July 18 on the rabbit weed and mesquite flat, and a single immature specimen was taken on the lower slopes of the Florida Mountains, July 19.
A bleached female specimen from Pecos, Texas, in the collection of the Academy belongs to this species.
It has been immersed in liquid preservative at some time and in consequence is somewhat shrivelled, but the character of the head and the apex of the abdomen show it to be mesillana.
The range of the species now extends from Reeves County, Texas, to Luna County, New Mexico.
CERATITES 5 n. subgenus.
Closely related to true Diapheromera, but differing in the presence of a pair of horns on the head in both sexes, 6 and in the peculiar recurved and inflated margin of the subgenital opercule in the male.
Type.
— Diapheromera (Ceratites) covillece n. sp.
This subgenus includes four and probably five species: the type species, tamaulipensis Rehn from Tamaulipas, Mexico, and beckeri and bidens Kaup 7 from Mexico, while saussurii Kirby 8 from Dominica probably belongs in this group, although rather anomalous in the uninflated median femora.
Diapheromera (Ceratites) covilleae n. sp.
Types: cT and 9 ; Franklin Mountains, altitude 4,500 feet, near El Paso, El Paso County, Texas.
July 9, 1907.
On greasewood (Covillea tridentata) .
(Hebard and Rehn.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Compared with D. beckeri and bidens Kaup, its nearest allies, the new species differs from the former in the head being longer than the pronotum, in the distinctly larger size and in the unarmed ventral margins of the cephalic limbs; from bidens it differs in the distinctly larger size, more distant horns and in the absence of granules from the head and thoracic segments.
The cerci and eighth and ninth dorsal abdomi6 KepaTiTijg, one that has horns.
6 Horns are absent from the head of a male of a new species from Mexico (tamaulipensis Rehn), but the female of that species possesses such well-marked cephalic appendages that we feel justified in considering their absence in the male as purely accidental.
7 Berlin.
Ent.
Zeitschrift, XV, pp.
27, 28, 1871.
8 Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (6).
Ill, p. 501, 1889.
1909.]
127 nal segments of the male type are absent or mutilated, the injury being due to the work of a fellow prisoner in the cyanide bottle.
Size moderately large; form moderately slender in the male, more robust in proportion in the female ; surface smooth, polished in the male.
Head slightly longer than the pronotum, broad, very slightly depressed in the male; occiput moderately inflated, somewhat globose; interocular region with a pair of short, erect, well separated conical horns, the horns placed nearer the eyes than they are to one another; eyes globose, quite prominent in the male when seen from the dorsum, somewhat smaller proportionately and less prominent in the female; antennae reaching nearly to the apex of the abdomen in the male, reaching about to the third abdominal segment in the female.
Pronotum longer than broad, the caudal portion slightly constricted; cephalic margin very slightly arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin subtruncate in the male, very broadly obtuse-angulate in the female; transverse depression broad and deep, making the pronotum subsellate when seen from the side, longitudinal median sulcus very slight.
Mesonotum slightly more (d 1 ) or slightly less (9) than twice the length of the head and pronotum together, rather narrow, subequal distad and expanding in the caudal third in the male, regularly but not greatly expanding caudad throughout its whole length in the female.
Metanotum and the median segment but slightly shorter than the mesonotum in the male, three-fourths the length of the same in the female, no broader than the mesonotum and similar in shape in the male, about equal to the widest portion of the mesonotum in the female; median segment slightly (c?)
or strongly < 9 ) transverse, less than a fourth the length of the remainder of the Fig.
5.
— Diapheromera(Ceratites) covilleoe n. sp.
Dorsal view of male type.
(Natural size.)
128 [Feb., Figs.
6, 7.
— Diapheromera (Ceratites) covillece n. sp.
Lateral outline of head of male (6) and female (7).
(X 3.)
metanotum in both sexes, the cephalic margin of the segment arcuate.
Abdomen equal to (cT) or slightly longer (?)
than the remainder of the body, the segments slenderer and more elongate in the male than in the female; segments increasing in length to the third which is subequal in length with the fourth and fifth, the sixth is slightly shorter; male with the seventh dorsal abdominal segment two-thirds the length of the sixth, moderately inflated distad, eighth and ninth dorsal segments and cerci of the male absent or mutilated, eighth ventral segment of the male very short, strongly transverse, subgenital opercule elongate, narrow, the apical portion sharply curved dorsad and then with the marginal portion sharply bent at a right angle, slightly expanded laterad, the median portion of the apical margin truncato-arcuate ; female with the seventh dorsal abdominal segment about two-thirds the length of the sixth, the eighth about two-thirds the length of the seventh, the ninth slightly longer than the seventh, strongly tectate, the apical margin obtuse-angulate emarginate, supra-anal plate tectate, rounded at the apex, cerci short, conic, not a fourth the length of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, subgenital opercule very slightly|exceeding the apical margin of the eighth dorsal abdominal segment, lanceolate, acute-angulate.
Cephalic and caudal limbs of the male very slender, the cephalic femora slightly longer than the pronotum and mesonotum together, basal flexure rather shallow, cephalic tibiae distinctly longer than the femora; caudal femora reaching to the base of the fifth segment, armed with a well-developed spine and with the ventral carina slightly serratodentate, caudal tibia?
distinctly longer than the femora, slightly bowed, the distal extremity very slightly inflated.
Median femora strongly inflated, about equal to the mesonotum in length, supplied with numerous carina?, the ventral ones moderately serrato-dentate, the subapical spine very stout, acute, with a sigmoid twist, median tibia?
longer than the femora, more robust than the same portions of the cephalic and caudal limbs, markedly serrato-dentate ventro-cephalad.
Fig.
8.
— Diapheromera (Ceratites) covillece n. sp.
Lateral outline of apex of female abdomen.
(X 3.)
Limbs of the female rather short, cephalic femora very slightly longer than the mesonotum, basal flexure pronounced, cephalic tibise slightly longer than the femora; median femora moderately robust, about equal \^S^ to the mesonotum, with the median segment, in length, subapical spine prominent, but smaller Fl §9 Dia-phero.
, , , i .
mera (Ceratites) than in the male, ventral carmae serrato-dentate, covillece n.sp.
Lamedian tibiae slightly longer than the femora ; caudal texai view of subfemora reaching to the middle of the fourth abdomG f male type, inal segment, subapical spine similar to that of the ( x 4 -) median limbs, caudal tibiae longer than the femora.
General color of the male buff-yellow becoming vinaceous-rufous on the abdomen; antennae madder becoming blackish-brown distad; eyes tawny lined with vandyke brown.
General color of the female bister becoming ashy and f rench gray on the limbs ; antennae similar to those of the male but duller.
Measurements.
& 9 Length of body, 81 mm.
92 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.6 " 5 Length of mesonotum, 17.6 " 19.4 Length of metanotum (including median segment), 17 15 Length of cephalic femur, 23 " 20.5 Length of median femur, 15.2 " 14.7 Length of caudal femur, 21.5 " 19 u u (I u It u The male type is the only specimen of that sex seen by us.
One paratypic adult female, taken July 9, and two adult females taken July 10 on the greasewood growth on the mesa at the east foot of the Franklin Mountains, have been examined.
A series of twelve immature female specimens in about five different stages of growth are now before us.
These individuals are all from the Franklin Mountains and mesa at the base of the same, July 9-11, except two from near Alamogordo, one taken April 23, 1902, by Viereck and Rehn, the other in the adjacent Dry Canyon, July 13, by Hebard and Rehn.
All the stages but one are represented in the material taken July 9-11, the April specimen being smaller than any of the others.
The half developed individuals show an interesting protective color adaptation, the base color being apple or oil green with the abdomen and limbs annulate with olive, the result being a color scheme blending wonderfully with the peculiar joint-like terminal twigs of the greasewood on 9 which the species is found and feeds.
As individuals near maturity this color pattern is lost, the dull coloration of the female type supplanting it.
The two mesa adults have the hoary suffusion much stronger and more extensive than in the female type, the limbs and the greater portion of the body being much lighter than in the type.
The cephalic horns are well indicated in all the immature specimens.
A series of seven females from Pecos, Reeves County, Texas, in the Academy collection are referred to this species, although rather smaller and slenderer, the latter difference probably being due to the fact that all have been immersed for some time in a liquid preservative and in consequence there has been considerable shrivelling.
The essential characters, i.e., width of head, horns and form of femoral spines and apex of abdomen, are the same as in the El Paso specimens.
ACRIDIDJE.
TELMATETTIX Hancock.
Telmatettix aztecus (Saussure).
In a canyon in the Florida Mountains, at about 5,100 feet elevation, along a little rill of water which trickled a few dozen yards over a rock slope and thin top soil, this species was found quite plentiful on July 19.
Specimens were noticed only on such spots as had been moistened by the water, a series of fourteen males and eleven females being taken in a short time.
The insects were active and flew rapidly about when disturbed.
There is a considerable range of color variation in the lot, many shades of browns and grays being represented, with several decidedly rufous individuals, and a number with complete or incomplete "saddle" of blackish brown caudad of the broadest portion of the pronotum.
In one specimen the cephalic and median limbs and the ventral margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum are ringed or spotted with brilliant red.
All the series have the pronotum elongate.
PARATETTIX Bolivar.
Paratettix mexioanus (Saussure).
A male of this species was taken on irrigated land along the Rio Grande, atjEl Paso, July 10, and a female was captured on cultivated ground at Albuquerque, September 14.
ACRYDIUM Geoffroy.
Acrydium crassum (Morse).
A single male of this species was taken at Cloudcroft, July 15, being beaten from vegetation on the steep hillside of James Canyon at an elevation of about 8,800 feet.
When compared with two male representatives of the species from near Manitou, Colorado, it is seen to differ only in the slightly more arcuate cephalic section of the median carina of the pronotum.
The only previous New Mexican record of the species was of its capture at Las Vegas, April 13.
Acrydium inourvatum (Hancock).
A pair of this species, taken at Fort Wingate, April 23 and May 8, 1908, by John Woodgate, have been examined.
The only definite record from New Mexico published previous to this date was from 6,500 feet elevation on the Rio Ruidoso, White Mountains, Lincoln County, July 30.
The species has been recorded from Washington and Colorado.
MERMIRIA Stal.
Mermiria bivittata (Serville).
This widely distributed species is represented by a series of thirty-three specimens, taken at the following localities : Spofford, Kinney County, Texas, July 8 (one nymph) ; Johnstone, Valverde County, Texas, July 8 (one nymph) ; Seminole, Valverde County, Texas, July 8 (1 cT) ; El Paso, July 10-11 (9 6", 2 9); Albuquerque, September 14 (12 d\ 7 9).
In size there is a very appreciable amount of variation, particularly in the male sex, while several types of coloration are easily recognized.
The Albuquerque series is rather dull in color, with broad postocular bars which infringe on the dorsum of the pronotum in the male; the El Paso specimens represent two color types, one ochraceous with prominent postocular bars infringing on the dorsum of the pronotum and with a distinct or siibobsolete median occipital stripe in the males, the other light greenish with the postocular bars narrower, limited to the lateral lobes and sharply defined, the occiput usually without a median line.
The Seminole male belongs to the first type mentioned from El Paso.
The pale subcostal streak is present on the tegmina of all the series, though varying somewhat in intensity and also in color, ranging from white to bright green.
The form of the fastigium and of the rostrum when seen from the lateral aspect is subject to considerable variation, the latter particularly exhibiting a surprising range, from a type with the facial line regular from the fastigio-facial angle to the clypeal suture to one with a very evident though obtuse angle between the antennal bases.
The Albuquerque series was taken on cultivated ground, while at El Paso the species was encountered among tornillo bushes in irrigated ground along the Rio Grande.
The Seminole specimen was taken from grass growing on a sandy spot.
Mermiria texana Brunei-.
This beautiful species is essentially one of the rough desert mountains and foothills, the altitude at which it occurs being between 4,000 and 5,500 feet.
On the rugged slopes of the Franklin Mountains and their broken foothills three males and one immature female were captured on July 9, while on a rocky desert hill at Aden a pair were taken on July 21.
An immature female from the lower slopes of the Florida Mountains, July 19, belongs to this species.
A series of nine adult specimens of the species in the brown phase is now before us and surprisingly little difference in coloration is exhibited.
Aside from the medio-longitudinal bar on the head and pronotum which is pale in one specimen, the only appreciable color variations are that the caudal tibiae range from pale pinkish, through vermilion to solferino, and the antennas are more obscure in some specimens than in others.
Individuals of the species are alert and quick to take wing, in fact this is one of the most difficult insects to capture among the Orthoptera of the Southwest.
PAROPOMALA Scudder.
In studying the series of Paropomala contained in the collection it was found necessary to critically examine the descriptions of all the species of the genus.
Aside from the unique and little known P. dissimilis Bruner, the only species not easily located was P. virgata Scudder, very briefly described from Mesilla, New Mexico, between Gila Bend and Yuma, Arizona, Palm Springs, Cahon Pass, Lancaster and Kern City, California.
In reply to a request for typical material of the species, Prof. Morse very kindly loaned us cotypes from all the typical localities, and on careful study it develops that at least two species are included in the series on which virgata was based.
The Mesilla individuals belong to a short comparatively robust species found at several localities in the Rio Grande valley, while the southern Californian and Arizonan individuals belong to the species later called pallida by Bruner.
One cotype from Kern City may be distinct from pallida of the Mohave, Colorado and Gila desert regions, having the fastigium very broad and the pronotum narrower than usual, but without additional material its separation does not seem warranted, inasmuch as forty-nine specimens of the species from Arizona, California and Nevada exhibit a great amount of individual variation.
As no single type or pair of types of virgata was originally designated, and the original diagnosis being too brief to give any assistance, the selection as typical virgata of either species known to exist in the type series is open to us, and in view of Mesilla, New Mexico, standing first in the list of localities the Rio Grande form is here selected as true Paropomala virgata.
To assist in the work of determination a key to the species in hand was constructed which is here reproduced to aid future workers.
As stated above all the species have been examined except P. dissimilis Bruner.
A.
— Tegmina not reaching tip of abdomen or even tip of caudal femora; subgenital plate of male elongate, half as longjagain as the last ventral segment.
B.
— Antennae of female as long as the caudal femora ; eyes smaller, the interocular space in the male decidedly more than half the length from that region to the apex of the fastigium; caudal femora longer, wyomingensis (Thorn.)
[cylindrica Bruner].
BB.
— Antennae of female shorter than the caudal femora; eyes larger, the interocular space in the male less than half the length from that region to the apex of the fastigium ; caudal femora shorter, .... calamus Scudd.
AA.
— Tegmina surpassing the tips of the caudal femora, generally reaching the apex of the abdomen and in some cases surpassing it.
Subgenital plate of male (at least in the species where known) not very long, hardly longer than the last ventral segment.
B.
— Form rather slender or moderately robust (for the genus), slightly compressed; head moderately produced.
C. — Tegmina of male hot exceeding the apex of the abdomen; occiput more or less appreciably inflated; caudal limbs rather slender; cerci styliform, comparatively slender.
D. — Size larger (body of male 18.5-24 mm., of female 27-36.5 mm.
); antenna?
more depressed proportionately; caudal margin of the disk of the pronotum arcuate; metazona more than twothirds the length of the prozona, pallida Bruner.
DD.
— Size smaller (body of male 16 mm.
); antennae less depressed proportionately; caudal margin of the disk of the pronotum very bluntly obtuseangulate; metazona two-thirds the length of the prozona, .
perpallida Rehn and Hebard.
CC.
— Tegmina of male exceeding the apex of the abdomen; occiput not appreciably inflated; caudal limbs proportionately more robust; cerci styliform, moderately robust, virgata Scudder.
BB.
— Form very slender, considerably compressed; head strongly produced.
(Size rather small, cT 18-21 mm., 9 26-27.5 mm.
), acris Rehn and Hebard.
A single imperfect specimen from Lathrop, California, seems to indicate the presence of a quite distinct species in the San Joaquin valley.
Paropomala calamus Scudder.
Rather unexpectedly this species was encountered at three places in or adjacent to the Rio Grande valley.
On the bare desert slopes of the Franklin Mountains at El Paso a single immature specimen was taken on July 9 at an elevation of 4,500 feet; a series of six adult and five immature males and nine immature females was taken at Aden, July 21, while one adult male and two adult females were taken at Albuquerque on September 14 in dry grass.
At Aden the species was taken chiefly in grass prairie land, where it was found clinging tightly to blades of grass, while at Albuquerque it was found in the river bottom-land.
The immature specimens from Aden represent three stages of growth.
As no measurements have been published for this species the following may prove of service : Albuquerqw Length of body, Length of head, Length of pronotum, .
Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, The specimens from Albuquerque are all in the green phase, while the Aden series and the Franklin Mountains specimen are in the pale brownish and hoary white phase.
The adult males from Aden and nearly half the immature series have the hoary white suffusion very strongly marked, usually covering the head, pronotum, pleura and caudal femora.
The only previous record of this species is that of the types from Lancaster, California, in the Mohave desert.
Paropomala virgata Scudder.
This species appears to be one restricted to the eastern side of the continental divide, the only exact records being from the Rio Grande valley and the region adjacent to it.
At El Paso a series of seven males and one female was taken July 10-11 on irrigated land along the Rio Grande and in dry grass in sand near the edge of the mesa.
Albuquerque.
Aden.
Albuquerque 22 mm.
25.5 mm.
30 mm .
.
3.4 " 4 4.7 " .
.
3 3.4 " 4 .
.
8 13.3 " 10 .
.
9 10.3 " 11.3 " 17.3 mm.
24 mm 3 4 3 4 13 17 9.5 " 12.7 " A single male was taken in dry grass at Aden, July 21, while at Albuquerque, September 14, a series of thirteen females was taken in dry grass and on cultivated ground, chiefly on the latter.
In size there is a slight amount of variation, but not enough to cause any difficulty in recognizing the species.
An average pair measure as follows : El PasoAlbuquerque.
Length of body, .
Length of head, .
Length of pronotum, Length of tegmen, Length of caudal femur, In coloration the species appears to be quite uniform, although the Albuquerque series is darker than the individuals from the El Pasan region, all examined being in a buff and brown phase except one Albuquerque specimen which demonstrates the existence of a green phase.
The comparatively robust build of the species, particularly of the females, will readily serve to differentiate it from its allies.
The only positive records for the species aside from those given here are from the vicinity of Mesilla and Las Cruces, Donna Ana County, New Mexico.
Paropomala acris Rehn and Hebard.
This species, which was described from Railroad Pass, Cochise County, Arizona, was found to be fairly numerous at Aden, July 21, chiefly in grass prairie land, a series of eight adult and two immature males and two adult and three immature females being taken.
A pair was also taken at El Paso: the male, July 11, clinging to a thorn of a mesquite near the edge of the mesa; the female, July 10, on prickly pear (Opuntia sp.)
in the greasewood belt at the east base of the Franklin Mountains.
The El Paso male is of nearly the same size as the type, but all the Aden males are smaller.
This difference in specimens from the two localities holds true in the female sex, the two Aden specimens of that sex being uniform in size and both smaller than the El Paso individual.
The following measurements may be of interest.
c?
d 1 9 9 El Paso.
Aden.
El Paso.
Aden.
Length of body, .
21 mm.
18.5 mm.
30.5 mm.
28 mm.
Length of head, .
3.5 " 3.5 " 5 4.5 " Length of pronotum, 3.2 " 2.8 " 5 4.7 " Length of tegmen, .
15 13 21.5 " 19.5 " Length of caudal femur, .
10.2 " 9 13.5 " 13.5 " The majority of the Aden series is more grayish ochraceous than the type, the remainder being very similar to the Railroad Pass individual.
The El Paso male is greenish yellow dorsad, while the female from the same locality is decidedly green with the tegmina roseate.
The only localities from which the species is known are those recorded here and the type locality — Railroad Pass, Arizona.
SYRBULA Stal.
Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler).
A single male taken July 8 at Johnstone, Valverde County, Texas, belongs to this species.
Syrbula fuscovittata Thomas.
A mature male and an immature female taken in Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, July 13, and an adult female taken at 4,500 feet elevation in the Franklin Mountains, July 9, are referable to this species.
Both adult specimens are in the brown phase of coloration.
The male from Dry Canyon was taken at an elevation of about 5,000 feet, in the lower portion of the juniper and pinon zone.
B00TETTIX Brunei-.
Bodtettix argentatus Brunei-.
This interesting grasshopper, which seems never to leave the branches of the greasewood (Covillea tridentata), was taken, July 9 to 11, at a number of points in the greasewood belt on the mesa northeast of El Paso and on the lower slopes of the Franklin Mountains.
The series from the El Pasan region, numbering twenty-four males, fourteen females and eight nymphs, and two females and one nymph taken July 13 in the greasewood of the lower portion of Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains (elevation 4,800-4,900 feet), and the growth of the same shrub on the alluvial slope at the mouth of the same canyon, exhibits a very considerable amount of variation in size, the extremes of each sex being as follows : c?
c?
9 9 Length of body, 17 mm.
21.2 mm.
20.5 mm.
25.5 mm.
Length of tegmen, .
14 19 16.8 " 20 Length of caudal femur, .
9.5 " 12 12 " 13.2 " In color numerous little variations are noticeable, none, however, important enough to call for special note.
In all the series the tegmina are more or less strongly maculate, although the markings are limited in the majority of the specimens to the vicinity of the anal area.
The striking pearl markings on the pronotum, pleura and limbs are present in all the specimens, even in those in the immature condition, the brilliancy of these markings in the living insect being retained by a good proportion of the series.
The stridulation of Bootettix is a faint buzzing szszszsz terminated by a distinct whirr and repeated at intervals.
EKITETTIX Bruner.
Eritettix variabilis Bruner.
A single female of this species was taken at Cloudcroft, July 14, and eleven males were collected at Aden, July 21.
At Cloudcroft it was taken in a mountain meadow, while at Aden the males were all collected among a scant covering of desert plants on the rocky hillside.
As in the case of the other species of this genus, these individuals were found to be extremely active.
The males show a considerable amount of variation in size, but are rather uniform in coloration.
However, none of the males have their color pattern as contrasted as the female, this being chiefly due to the uniform dorsal color of the males, the female having the pair of blackish dorsal lines quite distinct.
The supplementary dorsal carinse of the pronotum are rather well marked over the whole dorsum of the pronotum in some males, indicated only on the metazona in otherrs and entirely absent in a few, while the female possesses weakly developed ones.
This species has previously been recorded from Silver City, Grant County, and La Trementina, San Miguel County, New Mexico, and Douglas, Cochise County, Arizona.
OPEIA McNeill.
Opeia imperfecta Bruner.
During brief train stops made on July 8 at Dunlay, Medina County, and Spofford, Kinney County, Texas, this species was captured in a grassy spot under mesquite trees at the former locality and in dry grass at the latter.
A single male was taken at Dunlay and four of each sex were collected at Spofford.
These specimens demonstrate the unreliability of the length of the tegmina and the form of the apex of the same as specific characters in this genus.
The typical specimens examined by Bruner all possessed rather abbreviate tegmina, "about one-half ( 9 ) or nearly threefourths (c?)
as long as the abdomen, their apices pointed or acuminate."
In every character and every proportion the Dunlay and Spofford individuals fully agree with the original description, except that the males have the tegmina reaching or slightly exceeding the apex of the abdomen, while the females possess tegmina much over half as long as the abdomen, in all of that sex failing to reach the apices of the caudal femora by less than the length of the pronotum.
The apices of the tegmina are more or less narrowly rounded in all the specimens.
On examining a number of representatives of the Great Plains 0. obscura, which it may be added has a considerable amount of variation in the tegminal length, it is noticed that individuals with rather short tegmina have the tips of the same pointed, while those with longer tegmina have the same portions rounded.
This is true of almost all of a number of individuals of the species, and no doubt explains the presence of rounded apices to the tegmina in the longwinged Spofford and Dunlay individuals.
To the characters given by Bruner for separating Opeia imperfecta from 0. obscura might be added the less inflated character of the head in imperfecta with the resultant straighter and less arcuate occiput.
This species was described from southwestern Texas and Jimulco and Comancho, Zacatecas, Mexico.
AMPHITOKNUS McNeill.
Amphitornus ornatus McNeill.
On a desert hillside and on grassy prairie at Aden this species was found rather numerous on July 21, three individuals of each sex being taken.
At an elevation of 5,300 feet in the pinon and juniper zone of Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, a single male was taken, July 13, on bare ground among low bushes on the steep canyon wall.
At both localities the species was found to be exceedingly wary and difficult to capture.
The only previous New Mexican record of the species was of its capture at Little Mountain, east of Mesilla Park, Donna Ana County, on July 1.
CORDILLACRIS Rehn.
Cordillacris occipitalis (Thomas).
On the grassy rolling prairie at Aden this species was found fairly plentiful on July 21, a series of fifteen males and ten females being taken.
A female of the species was also taken during a train stop at Faywood, Luna County, New Mexico, on July 20.
An appreciable amount of variation in size is noticeable in both sexes, but particularly in the male, while the general tone of the basic coloration varies from a predominating ochre type to one with graybrown the main element, with, however, one specimen decidedly brick red in general tone.
The only previous record of this species in New Mexico is of its occurrence in Johnson's Basin, Socorro County, where it was taken, June 22, by Townsend.
The record of its occurrence at Alamogordo, New Mexico, made by Rehn, 9 should be corrected, as a re-examination of the individual there recorded shows it to be the very closely allied C. cinerea.
Cordillacris cinerea (Brunei-).
Two females, one taken at Aden, July 21, on grassy prairie, and the other from prickly pear (Opuntia sp.)
growing on the greasewood covered mesa northeast of El Paso, July 10, are referred to this species.
These specimens are very close to C. occipitalis, but seem to be separable from the specimens of the latter by the more protuberant eyes, the narrower fastigium and the more constricted interocular space.
However, there is a great amount of variation along these lines in specimens of undoubted occipitalis, and an examination of the type material of the species may show no valid grounds for retaining cinerea as distinct from occipitalis.
The color character given by Bruner 10 to separate the two species does not appear to be of value, as specimens of occipitalis have the caudal tibiae various shades of testaceous as well as "in part red or reddish."
This form has been recorded with some query as to the species from sandhills near Mesilla, New Mexico, June 27-30 and Sierra Blanca, Texas, June 26, while material from Alamogordo, New Mexico, April 9, belongs to this type.
Cordillacris apache n. sp.
Types : c?
and 9 ; Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico.
Juty 20, 1907.
(Hebard and Rehn.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Related to C. crenulata (Bruner) and C. pima Rehn, differing from the former in the narrower ventral portion of the head, more retreating facial line, narrower interspace between the eyes, narrower tegmina and slightly more elongate caudal limbs; from C. pima it differs in the shorter caudal limbs, in the more constricted lateral carinas of the pronotum and in the rectangulate angle of the fastigium in the female sex.
In determining the series representing this species it was found absolutely necessary to ascertain what true C. crenulata was, the original description of the latter species hardly being explicit enough to place the name on the northern form (Montana to Colorado) or the new one, the difficulty being further augmented by the fact that Bruner 9 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 718.
10 Biol.
Cent.
Amer., Orth., II, p. 70. originally placed Silver City among his localities for crenulata.
The description of crenulata was dissected and tabulated in parallel columns of agreement with the two species in hand, but no definite conclusion could be reached, so in response to an inquiry Prof. Brunei' wrote as follows: "The insect called Cordillacris crenulata was described chiefly from west Nebraska specimens, although I had at the time other specimens from New Mexico in my collection."
In view of this statement it seems perfectly legitimate to consider the northern form, which we have before us from McCook and Sioux Counties, Nebraska, and Antonito, Rocky Ford, Colorado Springs and Fort Collins, Colorado, as the true crenulata.
Size medium; form rather similar to that of C. crenulata.
Head with its dorsal length subequal to that of the pronotum, moderately but regularly ascending to the fastigium when seen from the side, the fastigium slightly descending; interocular region very slightly ( cT ) or not at all (?)
narrower than one of the eyes ; fastigium with the apical angle rectangulate in both sexes, the disk very slightly depressed immediately caudad of the margin; fastigiofacial angle subrectangulate when seen from the side, face greatly ( c? )
or considerably ( 9 ) retreating ; ventral portion of the head moderately inflated, not at all ( cT ) or slightly ( 9 ) broader than the Fig.
10.
— Cordillacris apache n. sp.
Lateral view of female type.
(X 3.)
width across the eyes ; frontal costa very narrow and subequal dorsad, regularly and considerably expanding ventrad of the antennae, sulcation deep dorsad, being very shallow and subobsolete ventrad.
Eyes subovate ( c? )
or subtrigonal-ovate (?)
in outline, moderately prominent in both sexes when seen from the dorsum, the length subequal to ( 9 ) or very slightly exceeding ( c? )
the infra-ocular sulcus ; antennae slightly ( c? )
or considerably ( 9 ) exceeding the length of the head and pronotum together, slightly depressed, with a slight ensif orm tendency in the female, apex rather blunt.
Pronotum very slightly sellate; cephalic margin of the dorsum slightly emarginate truncate, caudal margin slightly arcuate (cT) or arcuato-truncate ( 9 ); median carina low and weak, most apparent caudad, severed distinctly caudad of the middle; lateral carinas regularly but not greatly converging caudad to the middle of the disk, where they are separated by about half the caudal width, thence more sharply divergent caudad; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, ventral margin sinuate arcuato-truncate, ventro-cephalic angle rounded, ventro-caudal angle subrectangulate.
Tegmina rather narrow, slightly ( 9 ) or considerably (c?)
exceeding the apex of the abdomen, but not quite reaching the extremities of the caudal femora, apex narrowly truncate.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes transverse; interspace between the metasternal lobes longituYig.
11.
—Cordilldinal (c?)
or subquadrate (9).
Cephalic and a^ apache n.sp.
median limbs quite slender, moderately long.
h ea( i an( j pr0 noCaudal femora in length slightly shorter than tum (X 3.)
the tegmina, slender; caudal tibise about equal to the femora in length, armed with ten to twelve spines.
General color ochraceous marked with vandyke brown.
Face and mouth parts buff, the frontal costa clay color and a distinct subocular blotch, which is divided by a carinal line of buff, vandyke brown.
Gense, portions of the pleura and the ventral portion of the lateral face of the caudal femora hoary white ; ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum pale buff ( 9 ) or buff y white ( cT ) .
Eyes ochraceous lined with narrow bars of vandyke brown ; antennae very pale bluish-green, narrowly tipped with buffy , whitish proximad in the female.
Postocular bars and their continuations on the lateral lobes and pleura vandyke brown; a distinct broad median bar is present on the dorsum of the head.
Dorsum of the pronotum with buff predominating, the median area somewhat infuscated, the usual trigonal caudal blotches vandyke brown.
Tegmina with the crenulate maculations of dull whitish against vandyke brown, the crenulations more numerous in the male than in the female.
Caudal femora with the dorsal portion of their lateral face vandyke brown, the dorsum with three indistinct vandyke brown bands, of which the proximal is suboblique; caudal tibia?
dull lavender distad and mesad, spine tipped with black.
Measurements.
& 9 Length of body, 13 mm.
18 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2 2.8" Length of tegmen, 9.8 " 13 Length of caudal femur, 8.9 " 11.5 " In addition to the types a series of six adult males, six adult females and one female nymph have been examined.
Of this representation four males, two females and the nymph are from Silver City, July 20; two males and two females from Aden, July 21 ; one female from the Florida Mountains, July 19, and one female from Spalding, Luna County, New Mexico, July 20.
In size the specimens are moderately uniform, one or more females being slightly larger than the type, while one male is somewhat smaller than the type of that sex.
The coloration exhibits some little variation, but such differences as are seen are chiefly due to intensification or lightening of the general pattern and shades.
The antennse in some specimens are buffy proximad.
The habitat of this species at Aden was found to be a grassy rolling prairie, dotted with an extremely scanty and widely scattered growth of very low mesquite and a few sotols (Dasylirion sp.).
The insects were found most plentiful where the grass was most abundant.
At Silver City specimens were found in numbers among short grasses on the hillsides.
PHLIBOSTROMA Scudder.
Phlibostroma quadrimaculatum (Thomas).
An immature specimen of this species was taken at Silver City, July 20, in a small patch of short grass.
This is the first definite record of the species from southern New Mexico.
ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos.
Orphulella picturata Scudder.
A single male of this species was taken at Dunlay, Medina County Texas, during a train stop on July 8.
This specimen was found in the same surroundings as Opeia testacea.
Orphulella pelidna (Burmeister).
A male and two females of this species were taken on cultivated ground at Albuquerque, September 14.
The male and one female are in the brown phase, the remaining female being of the green type.
Comparison was made with individuals of the species from Nebraska.
The only previous New Mexican records are of captures of the species at Albuquerque and Mesilla.
DICHROMORPHA Morse.
Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder).
At San Antonio, Texas, July 8, a single female of this species was taken on a lot near the railroad station.
CHLOEALTIS Harris.
Chloealtis abdominalis (Thomas).
■• On the edge of a field flanked by a forest of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga miicronata) at Cloudcroft, one adult male and seven immature specimens of this species were taken on July 14.
The adult specimen was located by his stridulation, although it was in the middle of the afternoon.
The note of this insect was like that of individuals of the same species heard in Michigan.
When compared with a series of males of the species from Pequaming, Michigan, Yellowstone Park, and Manitou, Colorado, the Cloudcroft specimen is seen to be appreciably smaller, the measurements being as follows: Length of body, 15.7 mm.
; length of pronotum, 3.3 mm.
; length of tegmen, 8.8 mm.
; length of caudal femur, 11.2 mm.
The previous records of this species in New Mexico are from Beulah, San Miguel County, and Truchas Peak, Rio Arriba-Mora Counties.
CHORTHIPPUS Fieber.
Chorthippus curtipennis (Harris).
One male and two females of this species were collected at Cloudcroft on July 14 and 15.
These specimens were taken in clamp grassy situations, the species being by no means common.
Beulah, San Miguel County, and Aqua Fria Park, Colfax County, .are the previously known New Mexican localities for the species.
GOMPHOCERTTS Thunberg.
.
Gomphooerus clavatus Thomas.
At Cloudcroft this species was found to be abundant in grassy mountain meadows, particularly along the edges of the forest.
Here a series of fifteen males and sixteen females were taken on July 14 and 15.
It was noticed that the species was very hard to find before ten o'clock in the morning, although quite abundant during the heat of the afternoon.
The series is quite uniform in size, but in color there is in a number of specimens a pronounced mixing and lining with shades of brown and ochre which is not seen in the other more uniformly colored individuals.
This variable tendency is more apparent in the female sex.
None of the individuals from Cloudcroft present areas or even traces of green in their coloration.
A single female from Truchas Peak, New Mexico, taken August 2, 1902, by W. P. Cockerell, examined in this connection, has considerable green in its coloration.
The previous exact New Mexican records for the species were from Cloudcroft and above timber-line, 13,000-14,000 feet, on Truchas Peak.
144 [Feb., PSOLOESSA Scudder.
Psoloessa texana Scudder.
If further evidence is needed to support the opinion recently expressed by the authors (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1908, pp.
381-383) regarding the impossibility of differentiating the four nominal species of the genus Psoloessa, the one hundred and forty-three specimens examined in this connection furnishes it, The data here given on the variability in this species should be considered supplementary to that presented in the paper mentioned above.
The typical buddiana type is represented by four specimens, typical ferruginea by nine, typical maculipennis by eleven and typical texana by eight, a total of twenty-three per cent, of the series, leaving an intermediate series of one hundred and eleven specimens or seventy-seven per cent., divided as follows; A.
— Sharing characters of buddiana and ferruginea, one individual.
B.
— Sharing characters of buddiana and maculipennis, forty-seven individuals.
C. — Sharing characters of ferruginea and maculipennis, fifty-three individuals.
D. — Sharing characters of maculipennis and texana, four individuals.
E. — Sharing characters of ferruginea and texana, one individual.
F. — Sharing characters of buddiana, ferruginea and maculipennis, five individuals.
The distribution by localities of the specimens representing the types of the four "species" and the intermediate groups is as follows: 6 33 Ph Franklin Mts.
6 S-, O bC O S c8 < a o >> a o >> sG a Ml e G 02 s 3 5 a t-c a) i— i Typical buddiana * ********* * * * Typical maculipennis Tvnical texana * * * * * * * * * A intermediate B " * * * * * * * * * * * * C " * D " * * E " F " * * * El Paso is represented by nine d\ ten ?
, July 10 and 11; slopes of the Franklin Mountains by six d\ seven 9, July 9; Alamogordo by two d\ four 9 , July 13; Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, two d\ 1909.]
1 15 three 9 , July 13; Deming.
two 6\ four 9 , July 18; Florida Mountains, two d\ two 9 , July 19; Aden, twenty-six d\ thirty-eight 9 , July 21; Silver City, nineteen d\ seven 9, July 20.
At El Paso, Alamogordo and at the foot of the Florida Mountains it was taken from the bare ground in greasewood (Covillea) areas, while in Dry Canyon, in the Franklin and Florida Mountains, and at Silver City it was taken from canyon and hill slopes usually covered with low vegetation.
At Aden the species frequented a variety of habitats, being taken on a rocky hillside, in grass prairie land and from areas of dry grass in sand, being most abundant in the latter situation, while at Deming it was taken on the rabbit-weed and mesquite plain.
STIRAPLEURA 11 Scudder.
Stirapleura pusilla Scudder.
A series of thirty males and thirteen females are referred to this species, which seems to present quite a little variation in minor structural characters and size and to a considerable extent in color.
Five males and four females were taken at Silver City, July 20, on rough slopes, the remainder of the series, twenty-five males and nine females, being from Aden, July 21, where the species was found in all the three types of surroundings examined, but was noted in greatest numbers in grass prairie.
The Silver City specimens are smaller than the Aden individuals, although both series average larger than the original measurements.
The proportions of an average pair from each locality are as follows : Length of body, Length of pronotum Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, Silver City.
Aden.
Silver City.
Aden.
tf C?
9 9 12.8 mm.
15.5 mm.
19 mm.
21 mm 2.9 " 3.1 " 3.4 " 4 14.1 " 14.8 " 17 18.7 " 10 11.2 12.5 14 AGENEOTETTIX McNeill.
Ageneotettix deorum (Scudder).
At Aden, July 21, this species was found in grassy prairie land, on a rocky hillside and in a patch of dry grass along the railroad track, a series of thirteen males, one female and seven nymphs being taken.
11 Stirapleura mescalero Rehn (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 719) is seen on re-examination of the type and comparison with material now in hand to be Psoloessa texana Scudder.
The original reference to Stirapleura was caused by the degree of dorsal visibility of the lateral foveolse, a character which appears to us to be almost worthless for separating the two genera, depending as it does on the angle from which the head is viewed.
10 At Silver City, July 20, a single male was taken, while one male and three females were secured at Albuquerque, September 14.
The Albuquerque individuals are quite dull colored, with, however, a longitudinal line present on the costal areas of the tegmina in three of the four specimens.
This species has previously been recorded from Mesilla Park and Chaves, New Mexico.
AULOCARA Scudder.
Aulooara rufum Scudder.
A single freshly moulted female of this species was taken at Silver City, July 20.
It is rather dull in color, somewhat resembling specimens from Antonito and Nephista, Colorado, the head, pronotum, pleura and caudal femora being covered with numerous small blotches of olive green.
The only previous New Mexican record was La Cueva, Organ Mountains, September 3.
AEPHIA St&l.
Arphia luteola Scudder.
A single female taken at Spofford, Texas, July 8, belongs to this species.
The disk of the wing is vermilion in color instead of yellowish, but there can be no doubt of the specific identity of the specimen.
Arphia arcta Scudder.
A male and three females of this species, taken at Fort Wingate, McKinley County, New Mexico, by John Woodgate, have been examined.
The dates represented are April 25, May 11 and August 20, 1908.
The specimens have been compared with Beulah, New Mexico, and Jerome, Arizona, material.
Three of the four individuals possess red or reddish wings.
Arphia teporata Scudder.
On the desert slopes of the Franklin Mountains near El Paso, at elevations of from 4,200 to 4,800 feet, this species was found generally distributed and a series of three males and four females were taken on July 9.
Two males were also taken on the edge of the mesa near El Paso, July 11, while a single male was taken at 5,300 feet in the Florida Mountains and one female at Aden, July 21.
In the Florida Mountains but two specimens were seen, both in dense oak scrub near bare rock slopes, while at Aden a few were seen on the hill visited at that locality, but the species was very wary and difficult to collect.
CHOETOPHAGA Saussure.
Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer).
A single female of this species was taken during a train stop at Converse, Bexar County, Texas, July 8.
ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder.
Encoptolophus ooloradensis Brunei-.
A pair of this interesting species was taken in dry grass along the railroad tracks at Spofford, Kinney County, Texas, July 8.
The species was somewhat plentiful and very swift of flight.
This is the first record of the species from Texas.
Encoptolophus texensis Brunei-.
In suitable locations, such as irrigated and grass prairie land, through southern Arizona and New Mexico and western Texas, this species will no doubt be found in fair numbers.
In Texas, two males were collected at Spofford, July 8, while a series of thirteen males and eight females were taken, July 10-11, at El Paso, all except one from irrigated land.
At Albuquerque three males and eleven females were secured, September 14, on irrigated land, while a single female was attracted to light at Deming, July 20.
A pair were taken in grass prairie land at Aden, July 21, while a single female was taken in the greasewood belt at Alamogordo, July 13.
The specimen from Ysleta, El Paso County, Texas, recorded as E. costalis, 12 proves on re-examination to be E. texensis, which was undescribed when this record was published.
A female specimen taken at Roswell, New Mexico (August, 1902, at light, T. D. A. Cockerell), shows the presence of the species a considerable distance up the Pecos Valley.
In size there is a considerable amount of individual variation, a number of specimens of each sex being both larger and smaller than the measurements given by Bruner.
The dimensions of several of these specimens may be of interest.
Albuquerque.
El Paso.
Albuquerque.
El Paso.
c?
c?
9 9 Length of body, .
16.5 mm.
22 mm.
23 mm.
26.8 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.3 " 4.8 " 4.2 " 5.6 " Length of tegmen, .
16 " 20.2 " 20 " 25 Length of caudal femur, ... 9.8 " 12.5 " 12 " 15. "
12 Rehn, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 720.
Taking as units the two most extensive series here examined, the El Paso representation averages slightly larger than that from Albuquerque, but the variation within each is considerable.
All the specimens examined from Texas and New Mexico are in a brownish phase, no approach being noticed to the green phase.
The Albuquerque and Deming specimens are quite grayish, the Alamogordo one reddish and the Spofford lot quite blackish, but the tegminal pattern is retained by all the individuals examined.
This species is now known from Carrizo Springs, Spofford, Ysleta and El Paso, Texas; Roswell, Alamogordo, Albuquerque, Mesilla, Aden and Deming, New Mexico; Tucson, Florence, Phoenix and San Bernardino Ranch, Arizona, and southern California.
In its actions this species is more active than E. sordidus, but much less so than E. costalis.
HIPPISCUS Saussure.
Hippiscus corallipes (Haldeman).
On the bare spots of an irrigated field along the Rio Grande below El Paso, two males and two females of this species were taken on July 11.
At Aden, July 21, three of each sex were taken in all the situations found at that locality, but it was most commonly found in grass prairie land, where the species was very wary.
All of the specimens have the internal faces of the caudal femora red or pinkish-red except the females from El Paso, one of which has the same areas deep blue, the other purplish.
Hippiscus cupidus Scudder.
Three males of this species have been examined from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken April 26, 1908, by John Woodgate.
A comparison with males from Jerome, Arizona, reveals no differences worthy of mention.
The range of this species now extends from Jerome and Prescott, Arizona, to northwestern New Mexico.
The record of H. leprosus from the Pinal Mountains, Arizona, 13 belongs to this species.
Hippiscus affriotus Scudder.
A single female of this species was taken at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, June 2, 1908, by John Wingate.
The range of the species is extended considerably to the southward by this record, which is the first of the species from New Mexico ; Rangeley, on the lower White River, western Colorado, being the nearest locality from which it had previously been recorded.
13 Canad.
Entom., XXXIII, p. 102.
DISSOSTEIRA Scudder.
Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus).
Two females of this species were taken on cultivated ground at Albuquerque, September 14.
SPHARAGEMON Scudder.
Spharagemon collare (Scudder).
A pair of this species taken at Albuquerque, September 14, on irrigated land are in the collection.
They are closer to race angustipennis than to the other forms of the species.
In this location this species was extremely difficult to capture, partially on account of its powerful flight and its extreme wariness.
This is the only locality in New Mexico from which the species has been recorded.
T0M0N0TUS Saussure.
Tomonotus aztecus Saussure.
Apparently this species is generally distributed over that portion of western Texa?
between San Antonio and the Pecos River, specimens before us being from Lacoste, Medina County (1 c?
), Hondo, Medina County (1 9 ), D'Hanis, Medina County (2 6", 2 9 ), Sabinal, Uvalde County (1(5*), Spofford, Kinney County (2 cf), and Samuels, Valverde County (2 9 ), all taken during train stops on July 8.
The Samuels specimens are quite pale, while two of the D'Hanis series are quite uniform blackish-gray.
The Sabinal, Spofford and Hondo individuals are as a rule quite dark, the Sabinal and Hondo representatives with the tegminal markings distinct, while the Lacoste specimen tends toward ferruginous.
The senior author's Lactista boscanus u from Ysleta, El Paso County, Texas, is referable to this species.
As shown by Caudell 15 the specimens recorded by Scudder and Cockerell as Lactista pellepidus also belong to this form.
The range of this species in the United States is now known to extend from central Texas to south-central Arizona, north to the Organ Mountains of New Mexico.
MESTOBREGMA Scudder.
Mestobregma fusoifrons (Stal).
Five males and one female of this form were taken at Spofford, Texas, July 8 ; one male and two females also being taken at Dunlay, Medina County, Texas, the same date.
14 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1902, p. 721.
16 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVIII, p. 469.
Mestobregma obliterata Brunei-.
A single female from Albuquerque, September 14, is referred to this species.
Mestobregma plattei (Thomas).
Three males and one female of this species were taken at Silver City, July 20; two females also being included in the series from the lower slopes of the Florida Mountains, taken July 19.
At Silver City it was captured on low rounded hills, while in the Florida range it was found sparingly on bare precipitous rocks, where it was noticed to be very vigorous and wary.
These specimens show some approach to the closely allied M .
rubripenne from southern Arizona, but the general coloration is nearer plattei, while the slender caudal femora are not at all like the comparatively robust ones of rubripenne.
The range of this species is now known to extend from Wyoming south along the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains to Colorado, occurring also at Magdalena, New Mexico, and the localities given above.
DEROTMEMA Scudder.
Derotmema laticinctum Scudder.
This characteristic species of the desert regions of southern New Mexico and Arizona was captured at all the desert localities visited in southern New Mexico and at El Paso.
In the vicinity of El Paso it was taken, July 10, 11 and 17, on irrigated land along the Rio Grande (1 cT, 3 9), at the edge of the mesa, (1 cT), in the greasewood belt (1 9 ), in bare desert east of city (2 d\ 2 9 ), on desert hillside (2 d\ 1 9 ), on sand with a sparse growth of dry grass (17 d\ 8 9 ).
At Alamogordo a single male was attracted to light, July 12; three males were collected in the rabbit-weed and mesquite plain around Deming, July 18; one male and two females secured at Silver City, July 20, and eight males and six females taken at Aden, July 21.
In the irrigated tract near El Paso the species was fairly common on the barer spots, usually in colonies, while at the foot of the mesa it was not common on pieces of bare ground.
At Aden the species was found chiefly in grass prairie land, but in other situations as well, such as on cinders along the railroad track where it was inactive until the sun had warmed the ground, when the species became very active.
The El Paso specimens from sand area with dry grass are the largest of the species seen, a typical male and female measuring as follows : c?
9 Length of body, 15.2 mm.
25.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 " 4.8" Length of tegmen, 17.5 " 24.5 " Length of caudal femur, 10.2 " 14.2 " The Silver City male and the three individuals of that sex from Deming are quite small when compared with the El Paso series.
The series from sand areas at El Paso is uniformly more ashy gray than any other specimens of the species examined.
The Aden series is quite dark when compared with the El Paso representation, while one female is strongly washed with rose red, particularly on the dorsum of the pronotum where the pink color is almost pure.
The remarks previously made by the authors 16 regarding the variability of the coloration of the anal area of the tegmen and of the fuscous bar of the wings in this species also apply to the series examined in this connection.
This is the first record of the species from the State of Texas.
TRIMEROTROPIS St&l.
Trimerotropis texana (Brunei-).
This interesting species was taken at all the purely Lower Sonoran localities visited in southern New Mexico and extreme western Texas.
At El Paso it was found, July 10 and 11, rather sparingly in the broken country at the foot of the mesa northeast of the city, on the bare spots in the greasewood-covered mesa and in a dry stream bed in the irrigated section along the Rio Grande, six males and one female being taken in the several situations.
A single female was secured in the street under an arc light the evening of July 12 at Alamogordo, while one male was captured among greasewood at 4,900 feet elevation in Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, July 13.
At Aden, July 21, in grass prairie land and in dry grass, five males and three females were secured, while a single male was taken at Lanark, Donna Ana County, New Mexico, during a train stop on July 18.
Three males and two females were secured in the yucca-dotted sand waste along the Mimbres River, north of Deming, July 18.
This species was always found sparingly and specimens were invariably collected singly.
Although much slower of flight than T. vinculata, this species has a peculiar habit of delaying its flight until the net had passed over it, making it more difficult to capture.
Protective coloration appears to be a considerable factor in the life of individuals of this species, its habitat being the barest spots to be found in the region in which it occurs.
There is considerable variation in size, even in specimens from the same environment, and the coloration exhibits a tendency toward predominating grayish-white tones in one direction and reddishochraceous in the other.
The specimen from Lanark is ochraceousbuff in the general tone of all except the tegmina.
The caudal angle 16 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila., 1908, p. 388. of the disk of the pronotum varies from acute to obtuse-angulate, though by far the greater majority of the specimens have it rectangulate.
Previously known only from El Paso, Texas; Mesilla, Mesilla Park and the region about Las Graces, New Mexico, this species is now known to range north in the Otero basin to at least as far as Alamogordo and west at least to Deming.
Trimerotropis fascicula McNeill.
A pair of this species was taken at Albuquerque, September 14, while a single male was secured on the greasewood-covered mesa northeast of El Paso, July 10.
The Albuquerque individuals were taken on dry ground near the river bottom.
The tegminal bars are well defined in all three specimens.
Trimerotropis modesta Brunei-.
A single freshly transformed female taken on the edge of the mesa near El Paso, July 11, is referred tentatively to this species.
On account of its condition the wing membranes are quite delicate and the coloration very weak, but it appears to represent this species, although considerably larger than the original measurements and the specimens available for comparison.
Length of body, 30.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 7 " Length of tegmen, 34 " Length of caudal femur, 17 " Trimerotropis laticincta Saussure.
Of this rather striking species a single female was taken, July 11, at El Paso, and two males and one female at Deming, July 18.
The El Paso individual was collected on the rough slopes at the foot of the mesa, while the Deming specimens were taken in the yucca-dotted sand waste along the dry bed of the Mimbres.
The wing-band in these specimens varies from a third to slightly more than a third the length of the wing.
The ulnar spur is very short and sometimes hardly evident.
The species is exceedingly vigorous and wary.
Trimerotropis rubripes Rehn.
This interesting species, previously known only from the unique type from Albuquerque, is now known to range southward along the Rio Grande Valley to El Paso and also eastward and westward over a good portion of the Eastern or Chihuahuan Desert tract.
Near El Paso the species was found sparingly on bare patches among low weeds along the river bank in irrigated ground below the city.
Here on July 10 and 11 four males and five females were taken.
A single female was taken under a street arc light at Alamogordo, July 12, while one male was captured in grass prairie land at Aden, July 21.
This series is quite uniform in size.
While but little color variation is noticeable, one female from El Paso is as reddish in general tone as the type, but all the other specimens are more grayish.
There is some little variation in the intensity of the subobsolete tegminal bars, and the wing band also appears more blackish than the type.
Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder.
At every locality visited in New Mexico and around El Paso this species was present.
From an elevation of less than 1,000 feet at Spofford, Texas, to 8,700 feet at Cloudcroft, every locality yielded this form in greater or less abundance.
The series of 112 specimens is distributed as follows: Spofford, Texas, July 8, 1 9 ; near Pecos High Bridge, Valverde County, Texas, July 8, 1 c?
; El Paso, July 10-11, 24 6\ 15 9 ; Franklin Mountains, July 9, 7 d\ 5 9 ; Alamogordo, July 12-13, 3 J 1 , 1 9 ; Cloudcroft, July 14, 15, 4 tf, 3 9 ; Aden, July 21, 27 &, 8 9 ; Deming, July 18, 1 9 ; Florida Mountains, July 19, 1 c?, 1 9 ; Silver City, July 20, 3 d\ 1 9 ; Albuquerque, September 14, 4 d\ 2 9 .
In the vicinity of El Paso, where the greatest variety of conditions was encountered, the species was found on the greasewood-covered mesa, the rugged slopes of the Franklin Mountains, the broken area at the foot of the mesa and on bare spots in the irrigated region along the Rio Grande.
At Deming the mesquite and rabbit-weed plain harbored this species, while in the Florida Mountains it occurred on the rugged lower slopes.
At Cloudcroft it was found uncommon in meadow land and along the edge of the conifer forest, while at Alamogordo it was found in the greasewood area east of the town and around arc lights at night.
Cultivated ground was frequented at Albuquerque and rugged hillsides at Silver City, while all situations yielded it at Aden.
The majority of the El Paso specimens are slightly more grayish than the others in the series examined, the contrast of the tegminal bars being more decided, although this latter feature is so variable as to be worth nothing more than passing notice.
Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Brunei-.
On the very steep rocky slopes of the Florida Mountains this species occurred sparingly, two specimens, a male and female, being taken.
It haunted the same jumble of boulders and precipitous exposures as Mestobregma plattei and was equally wary and vigorous.
The male has the tegminal bars strongly marked, much as found in individuals of that sex from the Huachuca Mountains, while the female is paler, but is similar to a specimen of that sex from the latter locality.
A single female of this species was also taken on Grand View Point at Cloudcroft, July 16, while an individual of the same sex from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken August 16 by John Woodgate, has also been examined.
The disk of the wing is very pale greenish-blue in the Cloudcroft male, glaucous blue in the Florida Mountains male, campanula blue in the Florida Mountains female.
This species is now known to occur in suitable surroundings in New Mexico, in the Organ Mountains at about 5,700 feet, at 8,000 feet in the White Mountains, at 5,400 feet in the Florida Mountains; in Arizona at Flagstaff, in the Grand Canyon from 3,000 to 7,000, in Oak Creek Canyon, at Prescott and in the Huachuca range.
CIRCOTETTIX Scudder.
Circotettix undulatus (Thomas).
It is very hard to understand Bruner's statement 17 that "this locust is partial to bare, more or less alkaline ground, and for that reason is found throughout the more arid regions wherever suitable localities occur."
Our experience with the species in Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona shows its range to be chiefly in the Transition, Canadian and Hudsonian zones, by no means in the "more arid" regions, frequenting often "slashings" or cut areas in the forest region still covered with the debris left by the lumberman.
Here it delights in performingits interesting aerial dance, ascending as much as seventy feet in the air, and hovering there for some minutes, keeping up its continual clatter.
Open hillsides in the park-like glade region of the higher ranges are much frequented by these insects, and when the sun has warmed them after the chill of the night they proceed with their regular clattering music.
At Cloudcroft, on July 14 and 15, this species was found numerous in several situations, the greatest number being taken on the hillside of James Canyon, where quite a colony was located and where their clatter was continuous.
In all a series of ten males and eleven females was taken, comparatively little difference in size being exhibited by the sexes, although in color the males are more blackish than the females.
It is interesting to note that when a series of forty-nine specimens from Cloudcroft and Beulah, New Mexico, is compared with one of 17 Biol.
Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 183. seventeen from the Grand Canyon region, the New Mexican series is seen to have the caudal angle of the disk of the pronotum more acute in both sexes.
HADROTETTIX Scudder.
Hadrotettix trifasciatus (Say).
A single male of this species was secured on a rugged hillside near Silver City, July 20.
It is a very small specimen.
ANCONIA Scudder.
Anoonia caeruleipennis Bruner.
This most interesting species, which" was described from a single female from Hawthorne, Nevada, is represented by two males and seven females from the vicinity of El Paso.
When compared with the brief original description of the species the specimens agree fully, and as a series show no differences worth noting, except a lightening or darkening of the cinereous base color.
One of the rather striking features of this species is the subinnated disk of the prozona and metazona, while the principal sulcus is deeply impressed and the median carina elevated or subtectate on the cephalic portion of the prozona.
The ease with which this species in life loses its caudal limbs is remarkable.
Two females were taken on the mesa at the east base of the south peak of the Franklin Mountains, July 9; one male and two females were taken along the edge of the mesa, July 11; while one male and three females were secured in the irrigated section along the Rio Grande on the same date.
HELIASTUS Saussure.
Heliastus aridus (Bruner).
This characteristic desert species was taken at El Paso, Alamogordo, Silver City and Deming, in all of which localities it was found on rocky areas or bare spots between the greasewood or mesquite bushes.
At El Paso, July 9-11, it was taken on the mesa, the broken edge of the mesa and on the slopes of the Franklin Mountains, a series of fifteen males and fourteen females being collected.
Three males were secured in suitable surroundings in the mesquite and rabbit-weed plain at Deming, July 18; a pair at Alamogordo, July 13, in the greasewood belt, and an immature female at Silver City, July 20.
The Deming individuals have hoary white very prominent in their coloration, while several of the El Paso series have a strong bluish-gray tendency.
PHRYNOTETTIX Glover.
Phrynotettix verruculatus Uhler.
A single female which was taken on a bare spot of red earth in grass prairie land at Aden, July 21, belongs to this species.
The coloration of the specimen resembles that of the surroundings in which it was taken.
The specimen measures as follows : Length of body, 35 mm.
; length of pronotum, 16; greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 11 ; exposed length of tegmen, 7; length of caudal femur, 16.
One of the characters separating this species from P. magnus (Thomas) from southern Arizona is the more compressed and deeply sulcate inter-antennal portion of the frontal costa.
The records of this species are from the Pecos River in Texas or New Mexico; Las Cruces, La Cueva, Organ Mountains, Taos Valley and Aden, New Mexico, and Phoenix, Arizona.
Phrynotettix robustus (Brunei-).
A single female of this species was collected on the summit of a boulder-covered hill at the foot of the mesa at El Paso, July 11.
The specimen was squatted motionless on a large pebble like a toad.
This species is now known from localities in the Otero Basin (Alamogordo), Rio Grande Valley (El Paso, Las Cruces and Lake Valley) and Southwestern Arizona.
SCHISTOCERCA St&l.
Schistocerca alutacea (Harris).
A single female from Albuquerque, taken September 14 in the cultivated section along the Rio Grande, is referred to this species.
It has the caudal tibiae extremely dark and in this respect it approaches S. obscura, but on comparison with specimens of S. alutacea, obscura and venusta its most intimate relationship is seen to be with alutacea.
The metazona is well supplied with fair-sized spots of yellowish, similar to those frequently noticed in S. venusta and more rarely in a weaker form in S. alutacea.
The previous New Mexican records of this species are from Las Cruces and the vicinity of Mesilla, its known distribution in the territory being in the bottom lands of a portion of the Rio Grande Valley.
Schistoceroa shoshone (Thomas).
This powerful species was found at both El Paso and Albuquerque, two males and two females being taken at the former locality and four males and two females at the latter.
At Albuquerque, September 14, the species was taken in the cultivated area along the river, while at El Paso one pair was taken from tall green weeds on irrigated land, July 11, and the other pair was captured, July 17, in the mesquitedotted sand waste east of the town, in which latter situation the species was plentiful but very wary.
CAMPYLACANTHA Scudder.
Campylacantha lamprotata 18 n. sp.
Type: c?
; Hijito, Valverde County, Texas.
July 8, 1907.
(M.Hebard.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Related to C. vegana Scudder and Cockerell 19 from Las Vegas, NewMexico, with a topotypic female of which it has been compared, but differing in the distinctly lanceolate tegmina, w r hich are attingent and nearly twice as long as the dorsum of the pronotum, the more robust caudal femora, the substrangulate pronotum which has the caudal margin of the disk more decidedly angulate, the nearly straight ventral margin of the cerci and a number of features of the coloration.
Size medium; form moderately robust; surface of the pleura and metazona of the pronotum punctate, the greatest portion of the body covered w 7 ith long whitish hairs.
Head with the occiput arcuate, but hardly elevated dorsad of the level of the pronotum, the interocular Fig.
12.
— Campylacantha lamprotata n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
(X 3.)
region and the fastigium rather strongly declivent; space between the eyes very slightly narrower than the inter-antennal portion of the frontal costa; fastigium of moderate w-idth, rather shallowly but distinctly excavated, the margins distinct; frontal costa slightly expanded between the antennae otherwise subequal, biseriate punctate dorsad, distinctly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus; face appreciably retreating ; eyes moderately prominent, ovate in outline, half again as long as the inf raocular sulcus ; antenna?
distinctly longer than the head and pronotum together, very slightly thickened distad.
Pronotum with the greatest (caudal) width of the dorsum contained slightly more than one and one-half times in the length ; cephalic margin of the disk slightly' arcuate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate with the angle well 18 Aa/j,irporaTa y most brilliant.
19 Proc.
Davenp.
Acad.
Sci., IX, p. 40.
158 [Feb., Fig.
13.
— Campijlacantha lamprotata n. sp.
Lateral outline of apex of abdomen.
(X6.)
rounded; prozona distinctly longer than the metazona, the former with a very weak median carina cephalad and the metazona with a very distinct but slightly elevated one; lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep, all the angles obtuse; transverse sulci of the whole pronotum well impressed.
Tegmina hardly exceeding the head and pronotum in length, the greatest width slightly proximad of the middle, distal portion tapering, the apex narrowly oblique subtruncate; sutural margins overlapping.
Wings equal to the tegmina in length.
Prosternal spine strongly retrorse, conical, rather blunted; interspace between the mesosternal lobes decidedly longitudinal, the median width not a third the length of the same, the angles of the lobes well rounded ; metasternal lobes attingent.
Abdomen slightly compressed, carinate dorsad; furcula hardly indicated — mere broad areas with a hardly arcuate caudal margin; supra-anal plate slightly produced trigonal, apex very narrowly rounded, median sulcus indicated only on the proximal half, there deep and well impressed; cerci tapering in the proximal half, subequal distad and very slightly wider than half the basal width, the ventral margin hardly arcuate, the apex subacute and not exceeding the apex of the supraanal plate; subgenital plate moderately produced and acute when seen from the side, the subapical tubercle distinct.
Cephalic and median femora considerably bowed and inflated.
Caudal femora robust, the greatest width contained three and one-half times in the length of the same, the tips considerably exceeding the apex of the abdomen; caudal tibiae armed on the external margin with ten to eleven spines, on the internal with eleven.
General color pale apple-green, becoming yellowish on the pleura, abdomen and venter, marked with bice-green.
Face of the general color, the gense slightly yellowish, while the occiput is pure lemon yellow, a distinct median occipital bar and much less distinct postocular bars bice green ; eyes burnt umber ; antennae Chinese orange, the two proximal joints greenish-yellow.
Pronotum with the dorsum bice green, the lateral angles irregularly marked with dull lemon-yellow ; the lateral lobes clouded with yellowish except for a clear bice green patch dorsad on the prozona.
Tegmina bice green with yellowish-green veins.
Apex of the abdomen decidedly yellowish.
Cephalic and median Fig.
14.
— Campylacantha lamprotata n. sp.
Dorsal outline of apex of abdomen.
(X 6.)
femora pale Chinese orange with a narrow distad area of bice green; cephalic and median tibiae of the general color.
Caudal femora of the general color, but rather more yellowish, having a number of bars of bice green, one imperfect proximal one hardly represented on the external face, one premedian, one postmedian and one apical (genicular), these being well indicated dorsad and less laterad, the ventral face uniform greenish-yellow, where the bars cross the lateral carinas there is a tendency to glaucous, which is also found on the distal portion of the genicular region; caudal tibiae glaucous blue with a poorly defined pale pregenicular annulus, spines very pale glaucous with black tips.
Measurements.
Length of body, 20 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4.8 " Length of tegmen, 9 " Length of caudal femur, 12 " The type is the only specimen of this beautiful species seen by us, and was taken from a mesquite which had recently been drenched by heavy rain.
No time was available for further search, as our stay w r as limited to a brief train stop.
HESPEROTETTIX Scudder.
Hesperotettix viridis (Thomas).
Of this beautiful species a series of seventy specimens is contained in the collection, of which fifty-three are males, twenty-two females and five immature individuals.
The fondness of this species for the patches and larger areas of rabbit weed (Isocoma heterophylla) is very marked, and it usually occurs in abundance where that plant is present.
Often in patches of this plant one would notice several specimens of this species sitting on the summit of a single clump.
At Deming it was very abundant on its food-plant on both sides of the dry bed of the Mimbres, a series of forty-five males, eighteen females and four nymphs being taken July 18.
It also occurred in great numbers in suitable locations between the town and the Florida Mountains, while at 5,000 feet in a canyon in the Florida range it was very scarce, one male and two females being taken.
At El Paso it was taken in the low country along the Rio Grande, four males and two females being secured on July 11.
On the usual food-plant at Aden, July 21, one male and one female were taken, while one adult male and one nymph were collected at Silver City, July 20.
Of this large series thirty show no distinct blackish markings on or in the transverse sulci of the dorsum of the pronotum, although these are strongly pencilled in others.
Of the Deming series of sixty-three adults twenty-three are without the blackish pencilling.
The Deming series also contains one specimen in a brownish phase, while four others from the same locality approach it more or less closely.
The red pregenicular annulus is present in every adult in the series, in by far the majority of the specimens very strongly indicated.
There is a considerable amount of individual variation in size, even in specimens from the same immediate locality, but even the largest specimens do not approach the robust, closely allied Mexican H. meridionalis.
Several specimens from eastern Colorado (Lamar, Holly and Greeley), examined in connection with the New Mexican material, have the caudal femora very robust.
JEOLOPLUS Scudder.
iEoloplus elegans Scudder.
This variable species, which at present is only known from localities in the Rio Grande Valley, was taken in numbers at El Paso, July 10, 11 and 17.
It was found in greatest abundance in bottom land along the river, where it frequented the screw bean or tornillo (Prosopis odorata) and adjacent weedy areas, a series of sixteen males and nine females being taken.
Along the edge of the mesa a single pair was taken, while the mesquite-covered sand desert east of the town furnished four males and one female.
In size there is a considerable amount of variation, so much so in fact that at first glance at a number of males of the species one would imagine they had two forms before them.
This variation does not appear to be correlated with any particular environment or with the color phase of the individual.
The extremes of the series measure as follows : Length of body .
13.2 mm.
20 mm.
19.2 mm.
19.
8 20 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 5 " 5 " 5.2 " Length of tegmen, .13 " 17.2 " 16.8 " 17.6 " Length of caudal femur, ... 9 " 12 " 11.8 " 13.2 " As shown by the above measurements the greatest amount of variation is exhibited by the male, although that noticed in the female is quite perceptible.
The form of the male cerci is rather variable, in many specimens these 20 Abdomen compressed.
appendages being slenderer and not as robust distad as figured by Scudder, although the general form remains essentially the same.
There is also a slight variation in the shape of the tubercle of the subgenital plate.
In color, as pointed out by Scudder and Cockerell, 21 there is pronounced variation, although its description may be simplified by considering the green form one extreme and the full brownish and ochre form the other, leaving numerous specimens as intermediates between the two.
The full green phase, having all the dark markings green and the lighter ones yellowish-green, is represented in our material by five males and one female, although closely approached by five other females.
The full brown phase is represented by six males and one female, the remainder of the series being intermediate in coloration.
The green phase was noticed chiefly among tall green weeds, while the brown phase was usually found in much fewer numbers upon the tornillo or screw bean.
The tegmina are distinctly though not sharply maculate in eight specimens and unicolorous in six, the remainder having the anal vein marked more or less completely with a pale line.
There is also a considerable amount of variation in the depth of the glaucous color of the caudal tibiae.
The species has been recorded from Las Cruces and Mesilla Park, Donna Ana County, New Mexico.
MELANOPLUS Still.
Melanoplus bowditohi Scudder.
This species is represented in the collection by three males and eight females, taken as follows: El Paso, July 10 and 17 (1 d\ 2 9); Aden, July 21 (1 d\ 4 9 ) ; Albuquerque, September 14(19) ; Deming, July 18 (1 d\ 1 9 ).
At El Paso it was taken at the edge of the greasewood-covered mesa and from mesquite growing in the sandhill country east of the city.
It frequented cultivated ground at Albuquerque, was taken in grass prairie land at Aden and frequented the mesquite and rabbit-weed plain at Deming.
In actions the species is extremely vigorous and alert, usually making long flights.
But one of the specimens approaches anyway closely the type of coloration seen in individuals of the species from eastern Colorado and southwestern Nebraska, this individual being from mesquite at El Paso.
The majority of the series are duller with umber browns the predominating colors, the postocular bar not strongly marked in two specimens and nearly obsolete in one.
The bars on the dorsum 21 Proc.
Davenp.
Acad.
Sri., IX, pp.
41-42.
11 162 [Feb., of the caudal femora are more or less distinct in all but one individual which has them obsolete.
In size the specimens are decidedly larger than individuals from Colorado and Nebraska, as the following measurements show: Haigler, Neb.
El Paso, Tex.
Lamar, Col. Albuquerque, N. M. C?
c?
9 9 Length of body, 21 mm.
22.5 mm.
28 mm.
30.2 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5 5.2 " 5.8 " 6.3 " Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal 15.8 " 22.5 " 21 25.8 " femur, 11 14.2 " 13.5 " 16 The previous records of this species from New Mexico are from Belen, Valencia County, Sabinal, Socorro County, Las Cruces, Donna Ana County and Chaves, McKinley County.
Melanoplus herbaceus Bruner.
This variable species is represented by a series of forty-nine males and thirty-three females taken at El Paso, Albuquerque and Alamogordo.
At El Paso it was found in a variety of habitats : on greasewood on the slopes of the Franklin Mountains (July 9, 1 d\ 2 9 ), on greasewood on the mesa and at the edge of the same (July 10 and 11, 4 d\ 1 9 ), on mesquite growing on the sandhills east of the city (July 17, 4 d\ 2 9 ), and on irrigated land along the Rio Grande below the city (July 10 and 11, 38 d\ 25 9 ).
In the sandhill region the species was very wary and usually flew into the most inaccessible portions of the thickets of mesquite, while along the river it was plentiful but equally hard to capture.
Two males and two females were secured in cultivated land at Albuquerque, September 14, while a single female was attracted to light at Alamogordo, July 12.
In size there is a considerable amount of individual variation, as the following measurements of extremes of the series from along the Rio Grande at El Paso will show: d 1 c?
Length of body, .
20 mm.
23.6 mm.
26.2 mm.
29.2 mm Length of pronotum, 4.8 u 5.2 " 5.2 " 6.3 " Length of tegmen, .
17.5 (I 23 20.2 " 25.2 " Length of caudal femur, 11.2 It 13 13.2 " 15 The structure of the male cerci and of the furcula exhibits a considerable amount of variation in this species, about half of the males examined showing at least some slight approach to the form called flavescens by Scudder.
A number of specimens are typical of flavescens as far as the cerci and furcula are concerned, but a careful study of this large series of eighty-one specimens shows that the slight genital characters and the color of the tips of the antennae, of the pronotum and of the caudal tibiae, given specific importance by Scudder to separate M. herbaceus and flavescens, are by no means specific and can be considered only individual, the extremes being connected by a number of intermediates.
In color we find two quite distinct extremes connected by intermediates, one extreme being uniform light green with the postocular bar subobsolete or entirely lacking, the other various shades of brown, touched with yellowish around the head and along the ventral border of the postocular bar which is quite distinct.
Numerous intermediates show the postocular bar distinct with green the general color, others with yellowish and yellowish-brown the general color.
The antennae are usually not infuscate at the tips in the green phase, the majority of the other specimens having a more or less distinct apical inf uscation.
The caudal tibiae are generally some shade of glaucous, varying considerably in depth, but a few specimens have a decided greenish tone to these parts.
The species has previously been recorded from El Paso, Texas, and Las Cruces, Mesilla Park and Albuquerque, New Mexico, while Scudder and Cockerell have assigned specimens from Mesilla and Mesilla Park to M. flavescens.
Melanoplus glauoipes (Scudder).
At El Paso this peculiar species was found in small numbers in thickets of screw bean or tornillo growing in the low river-land, where on July 10 one male and three females were taken.
Two females were also secured on July 10 and 11 from mesquite, while one male and three females were taken, July 17, from mesquite thickets in the sand region east of the city.
A single female was taken at Clin, Uvalde County, Texas, July 8, in a damp weedy location.
The species is a vigorous one and at El Paso it was extremely difficult to capture, owing to its habit of seeking shelter by retiring to the thickest portion of the mesquite or tornillo bush on which it was found.
In such surroundings a net was useless and work with the hands paid a penalty of thorn stabs sufficient to deter any but an enthusiast.
It was impossible to flush specimens into the open, as the insects merely shifted their position to another portion of the bush.
There is a considerable amount of variation in the shade of the dorsum of the head, pronotum and anal area of the tegmina, face, gense and ventral portion of the lateral lobe of the pronotum, and of the caudal femora; these portions being pale ochraceous in one specimen, very dull ochraceous in several others and warm red brown in another.
The majority have these areas umber-brown.
The redbrown specimen is from Clin and all the ochraceous individuals from the sandhill country.
The previous records of this species are from Dallas and Bonita, Texas; Mountain Park, Oklahoma: Mesilla Park, New Mexico, and Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.
Melanoplus atlanis (Riley).
Three males and two females of this widely spread species were taken in weedy spots in irrigated land along the Rio Grande below El Paso on July 10 and 11.
A single male was taken on July 14 at Wootens, Otero County, New Mexico, at an elevation of about 7,000 feet, while a series of six females was taken in meadow-land at Cloudcroft, July 14-15.
As previously noticed by the authors 22 in regard to Arizona material of this species, the series before us show uniformly greater size than is true of specimens from the eastern United States, agreeing with material from Colorado and northern New Mexico, in addition to that previously recorded from Arizona.
Melanoplus aridus (Scudder).
This interesting species, which has a very considerable vertical range, is represented by five males and one female taken at El Paso (July 11, 1 cT), in Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains (July 13, 1 cT), Florida Mountains (July 19, 2 cT, 1 9) and at Albuquerque (September 14, 1 d 1 ).
A pair of this species from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken August 28 by John Woodgate, have also been examined.
At Albuquerque the species was taken on river bottom-land, at El Paso on weeds in field along river bank, while in Dry Canyon and in the Florida Mountains at elevations from 5,000 to 5,500 feet in the juniper and pinon zone, the species occurred among bush oaks (Florida Mountains) and on mesquite (Dry Canyon).
In both of the latter situations adults of the species were very scarce, but a number of immature specimens, presumably of this species, were noticed.
The male from El Paso is larger and lighter in color than the other specimens of that sex, while the Albuquerque individual is very dark in color.
The latter specimen resembles closely in general color tone 22 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1908, p. 396. representatives of the species from northern Arizona.
This is the first record of the species from Texas.
Melanoplus altitudinum (Scudder).
23 Two females of this species were collected in James Canyon, Cloudcroft, July 14-15, one being from the overgrown slope of the canyon, the other from a weedy spot at the mouth of the canyon.
The individual from the slope of the canyon is somewhat smaller than the other specimen.
The previous New Mexican records of the species are from northern New Mexico (Scudder), Taos Peak, 13,000 feet (Scudder), ridge between Sapello and upper Pecos River (Scudder, Cockerell) and Cloudcroft (Rehn).
Melanoplus feuiur-rubrum (De Geer).
A series of seven males and seven females of this widely distributed species were taken in cultivated ground at Albuquerque, September 14, a single male also being collected at El Paso, July 11, in bottomland along the Rio Grande.
Melanoplus calidus Scudder.
One of the most characteristic grasshoppers of the mountain meadows and of underbrush in certain portions of the forest-land around Cloudcroft is this striking species.
Scudder originally described this insect from Oilman's Ranch, Eagle Creek, White Mountains, New Mexico, at an elevation of 7,000 feet; Scudder and Cockerell later recording it from the South Fork of Eagle Creek.
The species was found to be plentiful on July 14 and 15, although in the morning before ten o'clock it was very hard to find.
The series taken consists of twenty-nine males and twenty femaleS .
Fig.
15.
-MelanoIn size there is great uniformity in the male plus calidus sex and but little variation in the female, and then Scudder.
Dorsal ; view oi apex ot chiefly in the length of the tegmina.
Compared abdomen.
(X4.)
with Scudder's measurements the specimens are generally smaller, picked individuals giving measurements as follows: 23 The great difficulty of separating some of the brachypterous species of Melanoplus from representatives of the genus Podisma and the close resemblance existing between Melanoplus altitudinum and Podisma dodgei was responsible for an erroneous determination made by the senior author (Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, p. 571).
The specimens from Raton, New Mexico, and Prescottand Copper Basin, Arizona, there referred to M. altitudinum, are really Podisma dodgei, as a careful re-examination of all the available material in the two species shows.
A series of Coloradan P. dodgei and Wyoming and New Mexican M .
altitudinum have been used for comparison.
166 [Feb., Length of body, .
Length of pronotum, Length of tegmen, Length of caudal tegmen, .
Length of body, .
Length of pronotum, Length of tegmen, Length of caudal tegmen, Scudder's Meas.
20 mm.
Cloud croft.
6 10 6' 16.2 mm.
4 4.5 " 10.3 " 9 9 21.75 mm.
18.2 mm.
5 4.7 6 10 a 12 a a it C?
17.2 mm.
4 4.5 10.2 Q 25 5 5.2 12 mm.
a a a Fig.
16.
— Melanoplus calidus Scudder.
Lateral outline of apex of abdomen.
(X 4.)
The great length of the body in the last measured specimen is in part at least due to distension.
The tegmina are quite uniform in the males, while in the females 6.3 mm.
is the greatest length found.
The caudal margin of the pronotum is subtruncate in a few individuals, and very slightly and broadly obtuse-angulate in the great majority.
In color the general tone varies from gray-brown to umber-brown, but the pattern varies but little, while the pale yellowish stripe is more marked in some specimens than in others.
This species is apparently very close to M. quadratus Scudder from South Fork of Eagle Creek, 8,100 feet, White Mountains, New Mexico; at least the two descriptions are veiy similar and specimens are determined with considerable difficulty.
Melanoplus differentialis (Thomas).
This destructive species was found swarming on irrigated land along the Rio Grande below El Paso, July 11, two males being taken, while at Albuquerque it was found plentiful in high weeds on cultivated land on September 14, a pair being collected.
Melanoplus bivittatus (Say).
A series of five males and eight females was taken in the bottomland at Albuquerque on September 14.
The caudal tibiae are quite black proximad in a number of individuals and some shade of glaucous distad in all but three specimens, which are more or less strongly yellowish on that portion of the tibise.
The dark line on the dorsal portion of the lateral face of the caudal femora is distinctly marked in all the individuals.
TETTIGONID^J.
DICHOPETALA Brunner.
Dichopetala brevihastata Scudder.
A single immature male taken on greasewood at an elevation of 4,800 feet at the mouth of Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, appears to belong to this species, although the identification is attended with a little uncertainty owing to the immaturity of the specimen.
Immature specimens apparently of this species were found to be fairly common when beating in the vicinity of the mouth of the canyon.
HORMILIA Stal.
Hormilia elegans Scudder.
Two females of this species were taken at Deming, July 20, both attracted to light.
One specimen of the species was found in the lunch-room of the railroad station and brought to us by one of the waiters.
On comparing these specimens with the original measurements and with seven individuals from Florence, Arizona, it became apparent that specimens from the eastern side of the continental divide were larger than representatives from the western side.
The following measurements may be of use when more extensive series are examined.
Near Mesilla, N. M. Deming, Deming, Florence, (type; from N. M. N. M. Ariz. Scudder).
VII.
20.07.
VII.
20.07.
VII.
23.
Length of body (exclu$ $ 9 sive of ovipositor), .
17 mm.
15 mm.
18 mm.
16.8 mm.
Length of tegmen, .
.. 28 " 29 " 31 Length of wing (approximate) 30 " 31 " 31.5 " 26 Length of caudal femur, 19 " 24 " 23.2 " 19 Florence, Ariz. IX.
20.
VII.
20.
VII.
13 VII.
22~ Length of body (exclu$0^9 sive of ovipositor), 18.2 mm.
19 mm.
15 mm.
15 mm.
Length of tegmen,.
.
26.5 " 24 " 23 " 25 Length of wing (approximate), .
.
29 " 25.5 " 25 " 25.5 " Length of caudal femur, .... 20 " 19.5 " 17 " 17 Florence, Ariz. vi.
14.
"vTiT" 9 9 Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), .
.
15 mm.
17.8 mm.
Length of tegmen, 24 " 25 Length of wing (approximate), 25 " 27.5 " Length of caudal femur, 19 " 21 One of the Deming females is a very pale buff, with the "herringbone" tegminal pattern but faintly marked.
The other individual is in the green phase with the pattern a pale green, and no indication of the blackish suffusion on the sutural areas frequently seen in the species.
The previous New Mexican records for the species were all from the vicinity of Las Cruces and Mesilla in the Mesilla Valley.
ARETHiEA Stal.
Arethaea oonstricta Brunner.
A single male of this species was taken at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, August 28, 1908. by John Woodgate.
The species has been recorded from Texas; near Organ Mountains, New Mexico; from an arroyo ten miles west of La Luz, Otero County, New Mexico; Tucson and Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona, SCUDDEEIA Stal.
Soudderia furcifera Scudder.
A single female of this species has been examined from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken August 23, 1908, by John Woodgate.
The only previous New Mexican records of this species were from the southern portion of the Territory, La Cueva, Organ Mountains, and Dripping Springs, Organ Mountains.
AMBLYCORYPHA St&l.
Amblycorypha huasteca (Saussure).
A single male of this species was beaten from a tall green bush growing in the bottom of Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, at an elevation of 5,200 feet, in the pinon and juniper zone.
This specimen is of considerable interest, as when compared with a series of eight males and two females from Shovel Mount, Burnet County, Texas, the tegmina are found to be appreciably longer, although the body and caudal femora are of about the same size.
The dimensions of the Dry Canyon speecimen compared with an average Shovel Mount male and the original measurements of Saussure are as follows : Length of body, Length of pronotum, Length of tegmen, Greatest width of tegmen Length of caudal femur, Dry Shovel Mexico (type; Canyon.
.Mount.
from Saussure) cJ 1 <?
9 23 .
5 mm.
23 mm.
7.5 " 7 ■ — 42 " 33.5 " 34 mm 12 " 9.8 " 11 Q1 It ol 31.5 " — A sufficient series of the longer winged form may show the necessity of recognizing it as a geographic race.
This is the first record of the species from New Mexico and one of the few from west of Texas.
The senior author has recorded it from southern Arizona, and Snow has credited it to Oak Creek Canyon, Coconino County, Arizona, EREMOPEDES Cockerell.
Eremopedes albofasciata Scudder and Cockerell.
Four immature specimens, two of each sex, were taken at Aden, July 21, in grass prairie land; a single immature female from Deming, July 18, taken On rabbit weed, is also in the collection.
The only previous record of the species was that of the type from Mesilla Park.
ATELOPLUS Scudder.
Ateloplus macroscelus'4 a. sp.
Type : 9 ; El Paso, El Paso County, Texas.
July 1 1 , 1907.
(Hebar'd and Rehn.)
[Hebard Collection.]
Allied to A. notatus Scudder and A. schwarzi Caudell, but differing from both in the much more elongate caudal limbs and ovipositor and the different color pattern.
Size medium; form moderately elongate.
Head quite short but rather broad and deep; fastigium of the vertex rounding to the facial fastigium which it touches, surface of the same not appreciably sulcate ; eyes not prominent, subovate in outline; antennas slightly more than twice the length of the bod}', proximal joint rather large, slightly produced on the internal face.
Pronotum with its dorsal length slightly more than twice that of the exposed dorsum of the head, the dorsum of the pronotum regularly arcuate in transverse section rounding into the lateral lobes; cephalic margin of the dorsum subtruncate.
caudal margin very broadly and shallowly but distinctly obtuse-angulate emarginate; when seen from the side the dorsal line of the pronotum is nearly straight, no sellate tendency being present; lateral lobes of the pronotum very considerably longer than deep, the ventral margin obtuse-angulate with the caudal portion of the angle slightly arcuateemarginate.
Tegmina present as the merest pads, hardly visible caudad of the pronotal margin.
Prosternal processes the merest obtuse-angulate shoulders, in no sense spines.
Abdomen with a very blunt dorsal carina; terminal dorsal abdominal segment with a considerable median impression which is folded ventrad; cerci short, conical, acute; ovipositor about three-fourths the length of the 24 Ma/cpoorce/l^?, having long legs.
170 [Feb., caudal femora, moderately robust, somewhat arcuate proximad and distad, nearly straight in the middle, the proximal third more robust than the remainder, the apex acute; subgenital plate obtuse-angulate with a rather large and quite deep median V-shaped emargination, a pair of moderately distinct sub-parallel longitudinal carina?
present on the plate.
Cephalic and median limbs of moderate length ; cephalic femora equal to the pronotum in length, unarmed; cephalic tibiae armed dorsad with three spines on the outer margin, with six on each of the ventral ones ; median femora very slightly longer than the cephalic, unarmed; median tibia?
with the dorsal margins armed with two (cephalic) or four (caudal) spines, each of the ventrals with six spines.
Caudal femora slightly longer than the body, moderately inflated in Fig.
17.
-Ateloplus macroscelus n. sp.
Lateral view of type, (x 2.)
the proximal half, slender distad, the greatest width contained nearly six times in the length, externo-ventral margin with a single spine, internoventral with five; caudal tibiae about equal to the femora in length, all the margins spined, the dorsal ones with a number considerably exceeding that of the ventral series.
General colors cream white and blackish-brown, generally mingled and marbled, with but little pattern aside from several rather darker longitudinal areas on the abdomen and a median obsolete V-shaped figure on the pronotum.
The ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is pure cream-white divided sharply but irregularly from the darker dorsal section.
On the face, the pleura and the sides of the proximal portion of the abdomen the lighter color predominates or is more conspicuous on account of the marbling being coarser.
Limbs marbled as is the case with the body, but a tendency toward broad annuli is noticed; caudal limbs with considerable blue-gray present in place of blackish-brown.
Eyes wood-brown clouded with burnt umber; antennse, except for the proximal joint, vandyke brown; ovipositor with the general pattern.
Measurements.
Length of body, 21 mm.
Length of pronotum, 6.8 " Length of caudal femur, 25 " Length of ovipositor, 18 " The type and an immature paratypic female (July 10) were taken on greasewood on the mesa to the south and east of the Franklin Mountains.
STENOPELMATUS Burmeister.
Stenopelmatus oculatus Scudder.
A single female of this species from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken October 15, 1907, by John Woodgate, has been examined.
CEUTHOPHILUS Scudder.
Ceuthophilus uniformis Scudder.
Three females of this species were taken at Cloudcroft on July 14, under the bark of a stump of yellow pine (Pinus ponderosa).
The only previous New Mexican records of the species are from Beulah, San Miguel County, and plains of northern New Mexico, eastern slope.
Elsewhere the species is found in Colorado, western Nebraska and eastern Kansas.
Ceuthophilus valgus Scudder.
A single male of this very interesting species was taken from the interior of a decayed log of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga mucronata).
This individual is slightly larger than Scudder's original measurements and considerably larger than an individual from Beulah, New Mexico.
The species has been recorded from Santa Fe, Beulah and White Mountain region, New Mexico, and also from certain localities in Colorado.
Ceuthophilus pauoispinosus Rehn.
Two females of this species were taken in the Florida Mountains in November by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
The specimens are of average size and do not differ from individuals from the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.
This is the first record of the species from New r Mexico, the previous records being from the Huachuca Mountains and Oak Creek Canyon, Arizona, and without exact data from the southern portion of the same Territory.
UDEOPSYLLA.
Soudder.
Udeopsylla socorrensis (Rehn).
This species, which was described as a species of Phrixocnemis , should be placed in the genus Udeopsylla , probably with U. franciscanus and vierecki representing a new subgenus.
The structure and armament of the caudal tibiae are quite different from the type found in U. robusta, but with the small amount of material available it seems best to defer any division until an opportunity to examine a more extensive series presents itself.
A single male of this species from Fort Wingate, collected May 12, 190S, by John Woodgate, has been examined.
The only previous record for the species is that of the types from the Magdalena Mountains, New Mexico.
GRYLLIDiE.
ECTATODERUS Guerin.
Eotatoderus borealis Scudder.
A single nearly mature female of this species was taken from a dead yucca on the greasewood slope between Alain ogordo and Dry Canyon.
July 13.
Two adult females taken in the Florida Mountains in November by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry have also been examined, as well as a male from Claremont, California, taken by Prof. C. F. Baker.
The Alamogordo specimen has the lateral lobes of the pronotum quite blackish, but this is not the case with the Florida Mountain females, although present in the Claremont male.
Its absence may be due to the fact that the specimens in which this coloration is absent were collected in alcohol.
The previous New Mexican records of this species were from La Cueva and Dripping Springs, Organ Mountains.
NEMOBIUS Scudder.
Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder.
Three specimens of this species, one adult male, one adult female and one immature individual, were taken at Alamogordo, July 16, in long grass under cottonwoods in the irrigated town park, where the species was abundant.
Both of the adults have the wings shorter than the tegmina, butotherwise they fully agree with an individual from Florence, Arizona.
The species has been recorded from Las Cruces and Mesilla, New 1909.]
173 Mexico; Douglas.
Cochise County, and Florence, Pinal County, Arizona; Los Angeles, California, and several localities in Lower California.
Nemobius utahensis Seudder.
A single female of this species, previously known only from Spring Lake and Salt Lake Valley, Utah, and Sedalia and Montevista, Colorado, was taken at Albuquerque, September 14, where the species was common in heavy weeds in the bottom-land.
The capture of the species at Montevista, Colorado, is interesting when taken with the Albuquerque record, as the former locality is in the upper portion of the Rio Grande valley.
GRYLLUS Linnaeus.
Gryllus personatus Uhler.
A single male of this species was taken at night from under a tin in the street at Alamogordo, July 12.
A single female taken at San Marcial, Socorro County, New Mexico, July, 1907, by Otho Poling, has also been examined.
Both specimens are macropterous.
These are the first positive records of the species from New Mexico.
Gryllus armatus Seudder.
A series of five males and six females of this species was taken at Deming, July 19 and 20, where they were found attracted to electric lights.
A single female was also taken, attracted to lights at Alamogordo, Juh r 12.
All the specimens are macropterous.
The principal measurements of the Deming specimens are as follows : Length of tegmen, .
12.5 mm.
Length of caudal femur 10.5 " Length of ovipositor — o 71 Length of tegmen, .
13 mm.
Length of caudal femur, 11 " Length of ovipositor, — Length of tegmen Length of caudal femur, .
Length of ovipositor, These are the first records of the species from New Mexico.
Gryllus pennsylvanious Burmeister.
A single male of this species w T as taken from under a stone at night at Cloudcroft, July 15, while a female specimen was taken at light at Alamogordo, July 12. o o C?
14 mm.
12.5 mm.
12.8 mm.
12 " 10.5 a 10 a 9 9 13.2 mm.
12.5 mm.
13 mm.
10.5 " 10.8 it 10 a 13 13.8 a 13 a 9 o Q 13.5 mm.
13 mm.
13.5 mm.
10.5 " 10.5 a 10.2 a 14 12.8 a 12.2 a 174 [Feb., The previous positive New Mexican records of the species were from Santa Fe, Las Vegas, Gallinas Canyon, Fort Buchanan and Mesilla Park, May to August.
Gryllus alogus Rehn.
A series of nine males and six females are contained in the collections examined in this connection.
Of this series five males and three females were taken at Alamogordo, July 12 and 13, one male attracted to light, the remainder taken from a dead yucca ; one pair was taken at El Paso, July 11, from a burrow, also inhabited by immature gryllids of other species, at the edge of the mesa; two males and one female from desert hillside and grass prairie at Aden, July 21 ; a single male from Deming, July 19, attracted to light, and a single female from Fort Wingate, May 12, collected by John Woodgate.
The Fort Wingate individual is quite small, no more than two-thirds the size of the other females, while the coloration of nearly all the specimens is uniformly darker than that of the type.
The species appears to be closely related to the Californian G. vocalis.
The measurements of the specimens examined are as follows : Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, Length of ovipositor Length of tegmen, Length of caudal femur.
Length of ovipositor, .
Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, Length of ovipositor, 9.5 mm.
11.8 " 9.8 mm.
11 c?
Alamogordo.
C?
c?
10 mm.
11 " 11 mm.
11.5 " Alamogordo.
9 11.5 12 mm.
it it Q 8.2 mm.
12 " 13.5 "■ 10 mm.
11 " 9 8 mm.
12 " d 1 1 1 mm 11.5 " El Paso.
9 9.2 mm.
13 14 Length of tegmen, .
Length of caudal femur, Length of ovipositor, 9.5 mm.
11.5 " Aden.
C?
9.5 mm.
11 9 9 12 13 mm.
it Deming.
C?
Length of tegmen, 11 mm Length of caudal femur, 11.8" Length of ovipositor, — Ft. Wingate.
9^ 4 mm.
8.7 " 10.2 " The previous records are from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Huachuca Mountains and Phoenix, Arizona.
(ECANTHUS Serville.
(Eoanthus quadripunctatus Beutenimiller.
Three immature individuals swept from rabbit-weed at Deming, July 18, appear to be referable to this species.
This is the first record of the species from New Mexico.
(Eoanthus fasciatus Fitch.
A pair of this species were taken from high weeds at 4,900 feet elevation in Dry Canyon, July 13.
The limbs are brownish-yellow in both specimens, while the antennae are blackish toward the bases.
The previous New Mexican records of the species are from Mescalero, Otero Count}', and Mesilla, Donna Ana County.
March 2.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Thirty-one persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers for publication under the following titles: "Arachnida from Costa Rica."
By Nathan Banks (February 19).
"Microscopical Image Formation."
By F. J. Keeley (March 2).
Dr. John MacFarlane made a communication on irrito-contractility in plants.
(No abstract.)
March 16.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-five persons present.
The death of Prof. Percival de Loriol le Fort, a Correspondent, on December 23, 1908, was announced.
Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication on Antigeny or Sexual Diversity in Insects.
(No abstract.)
Corrections : Dr. G. C. Crampton regrets that the following errors escaped him while reading the proofs of his paper entitled "A Contribution to the Comparative Morphology of the Thoracic Sclerites of Insects" : In Figures 6, 7 and 8, the region labelled S x should be designated S 2 .
In the explanation of Figure 12, instead of " sternellum," read " scut.ellum."
Page 35, line 29, instead of "katepimeral complex," read "katepisternal complex."
Page 29, line 11, instead of Corydali*, read Chrysopa.
The insect figured in Plate I is not Nernura, but Leuctra.
William Welsh was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed : MICROSCOPICAL IMAGE FORMATION.
BY F. J. KEELEY.
This subject is of importance to every user of a microscope, as a correct understanding of the optical laws which govern the formation of the image would assist in determining to what extent the true structure and size of the object under examination is correctly represented by the appearances presented to the eye.
We are confronted with two radically different theories of microscopical vision, which may be termed the diffraction and dioptric theories, although the former requires the presence of both diffracted and dioptric beams, while the latter deals principally with the effect of diffraction, but only such as arises in the instrument itself and not from the object under examination.
As the exponents of each seem to take partisan views and fail to give adequate consideration to the opposing theory, it appeared to be worth while to make a careful study of both in as far as possible an unprejudiced manner, supplemented by experiments, with the view of endeavoring to learn whether they are wholly irreconcilable.
From 1771, when Benjamin Martin applied a low power achromatic objective to a microscope and explained that its superiority was largely due to the increased aperture available, until Tolles, a century later, realized the possibility and practicability of producing objectives with apertures in excess of the equivalent of 180° in air, the principal efforts of the opticians and their collaborators, the microscopists, was in the direction of increased aperture and improved chromatic corrections, and no serious doubts appear to have been raised regarding the dioptric theory, in the form in which it had been worked out for the telescope; but when the practical limit of aperture with available materials had been reached by all the leading opticians, more attention was paid to theoretical questions, and it began to be apparent that there were certain phenomena connected with image formation in the microscope which could not be satisfactorily explained by accepted theories.
Abbe investigated this problem with characteristic acumen and evolved the theory which has since borne his name, and although immediately attacked and later somewhat modified by himself, although in a radical direction, 12 his theory has stood unrefuted up to the present time; but recently there has been a feeling aroused that, without further modification, it fails to fully account for all features of observed microscopical images.
The old dioptric theory has accordingly been re-expounded and amplified, and it is unnecessary to explain it in detail, as this has been most admirably and completely done in Wright's "Principles of Microscopy," published in 1906, which, while characterized by inaccuracies in connection with such matters as the measurement of focus and aperture, and indicating a lack of acquaintance with the diffraction theory, covers the ground from the dioptric point of view so thoroughly that I find but one point open to criticism, which is the employment of bright points and lines, equivalent to self-luminous objects, in explaining the formation of the diffraction patterns termed " antipoints. "
This is not a condition which is met in practical microscopy except with dark ground illumination, but every skilled microscopist knows that this form of illumination, although advantageous for many purposes, particularly for increasing the visibility of isolated points and lines, is never equal to direct light in developing true images of structure, the elements of which are not separated by distances exceeding their own diameters.
The decreased resolution has recently been explained by Nelson, and, in addition to this, false appearances intermediate between true structural elements may be produced by the coincidence of diffracted rays, which would not be visible with direct light.
In the rare case of opaque particles in a transparent medium, such as is furnished by a rock section containing minute crystals of magnetite or pyrite, the phenomena observed at the margins of these crystals may be explained as just the reverse of those arising from a bright point image; but in the vast majority of all structures examined with the microscope there will be little difference in the illumination on opposite sides of a marginal line, possibly only a difference in color, and whether the margin be considered as imaged by slightly refracted rays or by slightly deflected diffracted rays, whether an image of the margin is produced at all or only an interference of " antipoints," it is unquestionable that in certain classes of objects at least, as my experiments have not covered the whole ground sufficiently to generalize, there is something visible corresponding to a limiting margin, which may be recognized and measured by a practiced eye, whether isolated when illuminated by a wide cone or flanked on both sides by diffraction bands with a narrow one.
This fact had been impressed on me by previously made experiments, for when I first realized the effect that the size of the illuminated aperture should have on the apparent size of an object, the theoretical basis for this conclusion seemed so sound that I started a series of measurements to establish a table of corrections for "antipoint" for future use.
Failing to get any consistent results, or even any variations beyond the probable limits of instrumental error, in the course of micrometry of various objects at odd times, I finally made the following measurements with higher powers, adopting as most suitable objects two well-stained human blood corpuscles, mounted in balsam, and so marked that they could be found at any time, not only because they represented a class of objects frequently subjected to measurement, but also for the reason that they furnished an absorption image that should be particularly susceptible to dioptric law.
Full data are as follows : 1.
April 18: Stand, Zentmayer Centennial.
Objective, Zeiss 3 mm.
Apochromat, 1.40 N. A. Condenser, Powell & Lealand Apochromat, 1.40 N. A., no diaphragm, focussed for greatest aplanatic aperture, about 1.20 N. A.
Stage Micrometer, Rogers "A" Division, third onethousandth inch, Zentmayer Filar Micrometer.
Diameter of corpuscle No.
1, .00032050 inch; diameter of corpuscle No.
2, .00031745 inch.
2.
April 18: Everything exactly as above, except that a diaphragm was inserted in the condenser, reducing the cone of illumination to .20 N. A.
Diameter of corpuscle No.
1, .00031S60 inch; diameter of corpuscle No.
2, .00031747 inch.
Variation from first measurements, corpuscle No.
1, — .00000 190 Jnch; corpuscle No.
2, +.00000002 inch.
3.
April 19: Stand, Zentmayer Centennial.
Objective, Bausch & Lomb one-eighth inch, .85 N. A. Condenser, Beck Achromatic, 1.00 N. A., diaphragmed to .20 N. A.
Stage Micrometer, Rogers "A" Division, third one-thousandth inch, Zentmayer Filar Micrometer.
Diameter of corpuscle No.
1, .00031890 inch; diameter of corpuscle No.
2, .00031665.
Variation from first measurements, corpuscle No.
1, —.0000016 inch; corpuscle No.
2, —.00000080 inch.
4.
April 19: Stand, Watson Van Heurck.
Objective, Beck oneeighth .90 N. A. Condenser, Bausch & Lomb Abbe Achromatic 1.00 N. A. diaphragmed to .50 N. A.
Stage Micrometer, Fasoldt "A" Division, second one-thousandth, Bausch & Lomb Filar Micrometer.
Measurement of corpuscle No.
1, .00031609 inch.
Variation from first measurement, — .00000441.
5.
April 28: Stand, Zentmayer Centennial.
Objective, Bausch & Lomb one-twelfth inch, W. I., 1.00 N. A. Condenser, Beck Achromatic, 1.00 N. A. diaphragmed to .50 N. A.
Stage Micrometer, Rogers "B" Division, tenth two-thousandth inch, Zentmayer Filar Micromater.
Diameter of corpuscle No.
1, .00031770 inch.
Variation from first measurement, — .00000280 inch.
These measurements were made with the utmost care, the mean of ten readings of the filar micrometer being taken in each case, and between the readings both the object and lines of filar micrometer moved and the focus changed, so that each reading required independent adjustment in all respects.
The actual value of the micrometer divisions was not determined until after all the readings on the corpuscles were made, to avoid any possibility of unconscious mental bias.
Fractions of an inch are employed because my best micrometers, those with the sharpest defined lines, are so ruled.
It is easy to calculate the measurements to microns if desired, but this was useless in present case where the measurements had no value save for comparison.
It will be noted that the first two measurements, with illuminating cones of 1.20 and .20 N. A. respectively, agree far within the limits of probable instrumental error.
In fact the small variation on corpuscle No.
2 is entirely a chance result, and I have experienced such close results in but one or two other cases out of many hundreds of measurements.
The measurements on the second evening, under still different conditions, strongly confirmed the previous results.
The last two measurements, each of but one corpuscle, were made principally to test the accuracy of the stage micrometers used, and the greater variation shown, which in the fourth measurement approaches what I would consider the probable limit of instrumental error under the conditions, might be ascribed to the use of different stage micrometers.
I doubt if this is entirely true, as all my micrometers have been so thoroughly and repeatedly compared and studied, that any division or divisions of any one of a half dozen or more might be used with little chance of serious error, the true value of each, as recorded in my notebook, being of course used in making the comparison, as well as the same marked position on the division, as all stage micrometers vary materially not only in different divisions but in different parts of same division.
The best have a horizontal line on which all comparisons should be made.
It is more likely that the comparatively large variation in the fourth measurement is mostly due to the employment of the Bausch & Lomb instead of the Zentmayer Filar Micrometer.
While the former is very accurately made, it has ruled lines instead of spider webs, and therefore does not admit of such accurate definition and placing of the lines, measurements being of course made between the interior edges of the lines, and the diameter of the latter allowed for in comparing with stage micrometer.
In the fifth measurement, a slight error might occur from comparison with a different-sized division of stage micrometer, as owing to the variation in magnification over the field of ocular, even if errors of screw are immaterial, no filar micrometer is likely to give exactly double the reading on two equal divisions that it will on one of them.
This difference, if only centre of field is employed, is too small to be serious, but in very accurate measurements it is always well to compare with divisions of stage micrometer as nearly as practicable corresponding to size of object measured.
From these data it will be evident that the unquestionable presence of "antipoint" phenomena need not be taken into consideration in connection with micrometry with white light, as a trained eye can select the same margins to measure under any ordinary conditions of illumination.
This is not in the least contradictory to the theory, but demonstrates the possibility of overcoming a theoretical difficulty in actual practice.
As anyone skilled at micrometry is likely to use a large cone whenever practicable, the only occasions when this question will be of importance will be when successive measurements must be made through covers of widely differing thickness.
Owing to the impossibility of making any adjustment for this variation, it may be necessary to cut down the cone of illumination and depend on experience to select the margins to be measured.
In considering diffraction phenomena originating in the object, it will be well to first assume conditions under which the objective will be of greater aperture than the illuminating cone, and will therefore, when examined with ocular removed, exhibit a disk of light, the dioptric beam, surrounded by an unilluminated space.
The insertion of an object in the focus of the objective will result in this dark space showing more or less light which may be both refracted and diffracted by the object.
If the latter has a fine structure, periodically arranged, this light reaching the outer zone of the objective's aperture will be mostly of diffraction origin and will take the form of separated spectra.
As is well known, the examination of such spectra will enable us to predicate in advance what will be the arrangement and distance of The structural elements visible, or if the objective is not of sufficient aperture to include at least the first order spectra, no image of the structure will be seen.
Thus in arranging the illumination for the resolution of a difficult object — for instance, Amphipleura pellucida in dots, with a suitable objective— the easiesl way is to pay little attention to the image seen through the ocular, but to remove the latter after focussing, and modify the illumination until two spectra at right angles, as well as the dioptric beam, are visible in the back of the objective.
Then on inserting the ocular the resolution should be apparent at once, or by making any necessary spherical corrections by means of adjustment collar or tube length ; but as long as both spectra are not seen, it is utterly useless to endeavor to effect resolution by altering the adjustment.
If after satisfactory resolution be secured one of the spectra be obscured by an intruding point, only lines at right angles to the other spectrum will remain visible.
Another well-known experiment is available with any objective capable of resolving Pleurosigma angulatum with a very small central cone, in which case the six characteristic diffraction spectra, free from refracted rays, may be seen at margin of objective.
A cover glass, on which have been marked with India ink six dots that will cover the diffraction spectra, may now be placed behind the objective, and no trace of resolution will be visible; but if the cover glass be rotated 30° so as to bring the dots between the spectra, the resolution will be as good as before.
We here have a case where radically different results are obtained without changing the character of the screen behind the objective, and any argument that it acts as a diffraction grating is invalid, because if this were the case it should so act and produce similar results in one position as well as the other.
It is now evident that there is some connection between these diffracted beams and image formation in the microscope, and the question becomes whether the formation of the image is dependent on their presence, or whether they are merely accompaimng phenomena which happen to appear concomitantly with conditions which would permit of similar image formation in their absence.
That they are actually image forming rays can be readily proved in several ways, the easiest being to throw the objective out of adjustment sufficiently that the rays from its outer zone, which will be the diffracted rays, are brought to a different focus from those of the dioptric beam in the centre, and the two images can thus be examined successively by a slight change in focus.
A more convincing method is that of Rheinberg, in which the rays from outer zone are refracted out of the optic axis and the two images can be examined or photographed simultaneously.
Still a third method will shortly be referred to in connection with the case of an objective illuminated by a solid cone of light of its own aperture, which must now be considered.
This is a condition we rarely meet in practical microscopy except with low powers, as no wide-angled objectives have been made that are sufficiently well corrected to stand a full cone without breaking down, unless on objects such as deeply stained bacilli, where the image is formed principally by absorption and is practically a silhouette.
There seems to be no reason why such images should not be regarded as dioptric, although there must be some diffracted rays from the margins which are undoubtedly utilized in the image.
When the back of the objective is entirely filled with light, the study of diffraction phenomena becomes difficult, as even with particularly suitable objects the diffraction beams are eclipsed by the brighter dioptric beam.
As we open the iris of the condenser, however, it can be seen that the diffracted beams expand to the same extent as the dioptric beam, finally overlapping it and each other, until when the aperture of the objective is entirely filled with dioptric light it must unquestionably be similarly filled with diffracted rays.
Unfortunately, there seems to be no way in which we can completely separate the beams derived from the two different sources, and the best expedient I could devise to obtain some idea of the conditions present consists in the use of a semicircular diaphragm in the condenser, so oriented that the left side of the back of objective is completely filled with light up to its margin, while the right side receives no direct rays whatever.
Thus we have full cone conditions on one side, while the other will receive only refracted and diffracted rays, or if certain suitable objects are employed nothing but diffracted rays, whose behavior we can study separately.
For this purpose a binocular microscope should be employed with a specially short mounted objective, say a sixth of about .80 N. A., the back lens of which will come close to the Wenham prism.
All the direct light from the fully illuminated left half of the objective will now pass up the right-hand tube of the microscope, while the diffracted beams from the right-hand half of objective will be reflected up the left tube.
Assuming that P. angulatum is again the object, as it furnishes spectra singularly free from all indications of refracted light, and oriented longitudinally across the field in a right-and-left direction, on examining the back of objective, the previously dark space on the right will be found practically filled by three of the characteristic spectra of the object, and the other three will be present, although invisible, in the illuminated half, where they will occupy positions near the margin, as they can only be derived from central or nearly central dioptric rays.
The diffracted beams in right half of objective, beingderived from the dioptric beam which completely fills the left half will extend from close to the centre of objective to beyond its margin, and correspond in all essential respects to those present in a fully illuminated objective, as such widely diffracted beams must be derived from dioptric rays which pass through that portion of the objective's aperture diametrically opposite to them.
It is true these beams would be expanded if the full aperture was illuminated, but the expansion would be principally outside the margin of objective and, as far as present experiment is concerned, be immaterial.
The following results demonstrate that three such spectra as we are considering will produce an image identical with that resulting from the whole six, and the conditions may be summed up as follows : Through the right-hand tube of the binocular, the image will be produced by a full dioptric beam, supplemented by diffracted beams corresponding to those resulting from a small central illuminating cone, while through the left-hand tube it is derived from diffracted beams alone, corresponding to those present with a full cone of illumination.
On examination, it will be found that both images are fairly well defined, but that the resolution of the fine structure is noticeably sharper and more distinct in the diffraction image through the left tube.
It will also be noted that the diffraction image is blue in color, and before going further it will be well to fully understand how the colors of such images are to be accounted for.
The diffracted beams seen at back of objective correspond to any other diffraction spectra and include light of such wave lengths as enter into their formation.
The images resulting from their recombination will accordingly have the same color as the light supplied to the microscope, as modified by absorption in passing through the object, provided complete spectra are included within the aperture of the objective; but should part of the spectra be cut off at its margin, the diffraction images will correspond to color sensation produced on the retina by light included in that portion of the spectrum admitted, and will accordingly depend on two factors: the distance between the elements of the object and the aperture of the objective.
Under the conditions outlined in present experiment it has already been noted that the diffraction image of P. angulation is blue, which is due to the red ends of its spectra beingcut off at margin of the objective's aperture.
If Navicula Lewisiana or a coarse N. rhomboides be substituted only the violet end of the spectra will be admitted and the unresolved image be similarly colored.
On the other hand, PI.
formosum, whose spectra will be completely admitted, will appear just as white in the diffraction as in the directly illuminated image.
Intermediate forms may appear green or even of a yellowish cast, but never red.
The agreement in color of the images seen through the left tube with what would be predicated from the examination of spectra admitted, is further evidence that they are due practically exclusively to diffracted rays, but still further experiment is required to demonstrate that they are free from refracted rays.
The spectra here seen, and which have previously been considered, consist of an infinite number of overlapping images of the aperture in the subst age diaphragm , each produced by light of a different wave length ; hence only the extreme ends are practically pure colors, the middle portions of the spectra consisting of a jumble of colors sometimes producing the effect of white light; but if a narrow slit diaphragm be inserted in the condenser we can secure a spectrum that corresponds in sharpness to that from an ordinary spectroscope.
This may be enlarged by the use of a low power objective in the draw tube, focussed on the back focal plane of the first objective as when using an Abbe apertometer.
The microscope may now be used as a spectroscope, and by allowing the light supplied to it to pass through some coloring matter which has well-marked absorption bands, these will be visible in the spectra at back of objective.
A solution of Eosin, which will be needed for a later experiment, will likewise answer here.
It should be of such strength that when placed in a glass trough and examined with a spectroscope of low dispersion, it will show a black, well-defined band in the green adjoining the yellow, but allow the remainder of the spectrum to pass freely.
On placing this trough in the path of the light used to illuminate the microscope, which should be an intense one, it will be noted that the absorption band in the spectrum derived from the diatom structure is perfectly black, furnishing a demonstration that it is practically free from refracted rays; for if it contained scattered refracted rays, as has been claimed, the absorption band would not appear black, but of same color as the light illuminating the object, which in this case is visually a bright red.
If we now examine the diffraction image produced under these conditions, taking the precaution to so adjust the slit diaphragm that the red end of diffraction spectrum is cut off by the margin of the objective's aperture, will find that it is just as blue with this visually red light as it was with white light, owing to the fact that Eosin transmits the blue rays freely; but the midrib of the diatom, and particularly any granular incrustation, such as may usually be found at places between the valve and cover-glass, will be tinted red, indicating that refracted rays or complete diffracted beams enter into their image formation.
Three important questions have now been settled : Firstly, that the diffracted beams from certain structures are free from refracted rays; secondly, that sharp distinct images may result from such diffracted beams exclusively; thirdly, that where such beams are sufficiently separated from the dioptric beam to permit of their being eclipsed by a suitable screen, no image of the elements producing them will be visible.
Returning to the conditions of the previous experiment, we will substitute for the diatom a well-stained blood slide, preferably pathological, containing large eosinophilous leucocytes.
As this is mounted in balsam, the corpuscles would be scarcely visible were they not stained, hence the image must be produced principally by absorption and little refraction can be expected.
There must be some diffraction at the margins, but the diffracted beams thus produced will be slightly deflected, and for all practical purposes indistinguishable in their effect from refracted rays.
After examining the image through right tube, and noting that practically nothing can be seen save by contrast of color, even the granules of the leucocytes being " drowned out" by the wide cone of illumination, the eye should be rested for several minutes in a dark place, to recover its sensitiveness not merely to faint images, but, what is particularly important in this case, to color sensation, which will have been impaired by the brilliant red color of the stained blood.
When this has been done, the image through left tube may be inspected, and as anticipated it will be found exceedingly faint.
Mere sketchy outlines of the corpuscles will be seen, of a reddish tint, but what will most impress the observer will "be that the granular texture of the leucocytes will be quite distinctly imaged and of a bluish-gray tint.
It is hardly necessary to state that this indicates diffraction origin of the image if the diffracted beams are deflected sufficiently to be partly cut off at margin of objective, as the distancing of the granules would indicate should be the case.
It has already been shown why the visually red Eosin stain presents no serious difficulties in the way of a contrasting diffraction image.
In these experiments the position of the semicircular diaphragm might be reversed so as to give the diffracted beam the advantage of the direct tube, but in a good Wenham binocular it makes little difference which tube is used.
I may be particularly fortunate in this respect, but among my own binoculars this is the case, and in at least two of them the difference in definition between the two images is not greater than is commonly found between that of two objectives of identical construction from the same maker.
Right here it may be well to mention two other fallacies regarding the Wenham binocular which seem likely to be perpetuated in microscopical literature, having even found a place in Spitta's recent valuable and generally accurate work on the microscope.
One of these is, that the beam passing up the left tube produces a larger image (unless this is count aacted in the ocular) because it has to travel farther on account of the two reflections in the prism.
As I many years ago explained, the path of the beam through the prism is but slightly over one and a half times the length of the path of direct beam alongside the prism.
As this distance is in glass of at least 1.50 R. I. the ray emerges from the prism as if it had traveled only two-thirds as far in air.
and the optical tube length is practically identical in both tubes, the difference not reaching a millimeter with an ordinary well proportioned prism.
The other fallacy is that such binoculars are not suited for higher powers than about a half inch, while they really work well with objectives up to an eighth inch or higher, if the latter are mounted, as Wenham himself recommended, in short mounts, so as to avoid parallax between back lens and prism.
If anyone doubts the immense advantage of stereoscopic effect with high powers, let him attempt with a monocular to demonstrate the anatomy, particularly the position of the unextruded proboscis, in a glycerine-mounted specimen of the motile condition of our too common pest, the San Jose scale, which I have never seen correctly figured, and then note the difference when a binocular is employed.
The sculpturing on spores and capillitium of Myxomycetes, spores of ferns, etc., afford other good tests of its efficiency.
Returning to diffraction phenomena, I almost hesitate to refer to the two experiments by which Wright seems to think he has demolished the Abbe theory, as their fallacy is so self-evident that it must have been at once recognized by every microscopist having more than the most elementary acquaintance with the subject.
The assumption, in the first experiment, that when the aperture of objective is fully illuminated there are no diffracted rays present, because they cannot be seen, is absurd, and needs no further consideration; but anyone desiring to know just what is the character of the diffracted beams resulting from any particular structure under the conditions specified, may secure the information by employing a pinhole diaphragm in a freely moving carrier connected with substage condenser.
A circle should be drawn on a piece of paper to represent back of objective, and the diffracted beams visible plotted in with a red and blue pencil.
Diaphragm may then be moved slightly and the diffracted beams again recorded on same drawing.
This can be repeated until the illumination from the pinhole has traversed every portion of the objective's aperture, or until the patience of the observer is exhausted, when, if the diaphragm be removed and the objective fully illuminated, it will be absolutely certain that all the diffracted beams represented on the composite sketch will still be present within the aperture of the objective.
Twenty years ago Abbe published a paper dealing specially with fully illuminated apertures.
The other experiment described, which states that the image of an Abbe diffraction plate, illuminated through a narrow central aperture, and examined under a one-inch objective, becomes invisible when sunlight is used as the source of illumination, would be equally fallacious if true, as the glare of such light might prevent any image being seen, but its presence could be demonstrated by receiving it on a ground glass screen or by photographing it.
But even the facts are here misstated.
I did not doubt that the image might be obscured by the blinding effect of direct sunlight, and merely carried out the experiment to demonstrate that the image would appear on the screen of a camera, which from photomicrographic experience I knew would be the case ; but I found not only that the lines were well defined on the ground glass of the camera, but also were equally distinct when examined directly through the microscope.
Although Wright's description of the experiment had been followed in every detail, the cemditions were likewise varied in every possible way that might lead to the results claimed.
A shade prevented the sunlight from reaching any part of the microscope except the mirror, but in addition it was wrapped in several folds of a heavy focussing cloth, preventing the possible entrance of any light save the narrow central beam, which was modified in size first with the iris and then by a specially made pinhole diaphragm, much smaller than could be secured with the iris, or with the diaphragm accompanying the Abbe diffraction apparatus, recommended by Wright for the purpose.
The disk of the sun was focussed sharply in the plane of the lines and also above and below; the condenser removed and sunlight merely restricted by the minute and larger diaphragms tried; eyepieces from two-inch to one-fifth inch employed; the fine one-inch objective at first used remove el and replaced by the poorest one of this power in my collection, a cheap single system affair of low aperture; but it was useless to change the conditions, as under any of them the image remained just as sharp anel distinct as it would have been with lamplight, and the only result of an hour's experimenting was a tired eye and the conviction that it was absolutely impossible for anyone with eyesight good enough to use the microscope at all to perform this experiment with the results claimed.
Nevertheless, devoid as it is of the slightest basis in either fact or deduction, it is offered as one-half of all the evidence necessary to refute so well considered a theory as that of Abbe.
As it should succeed under the dioptric theory, it indicates the inadequacy of that theory alone to account for microscopical image formation.
One more experiment, of the many made, may be worth mentioning.
For this will be required an objective that will stand full cone illumination, and a Nobert test plate or other series of rulings will supply the object.
No objective of more than very low power and aperture will fully fill the specifications, which would require resolution with a full cone, equal to that with oblique light, but an old Spencer one-half inch of 70°, which approaches perfection more closely than any other objective I have seen, was found to answer the purpose.
If illuminated with a cone completely filling its aperture, it will be found that the seventh band of the Nobert plate is well resolved, and if the aperture of the illumination be cut down as far as the iris will close, so the dioptric beam seen at back of objective will not exceed one-twenty-fifth of the diameter of the back lens, the third band, which is just twice as coarsely ruled as the seventh, will still be easily and distinctly resolved.
Now the aperture of the illuminating cone has been cut to one-twenty-fifth, and by a strict interpretation of the dioptric theory the resolution should be impaired to a similar extent, but it is found to be one-half as great as with the full aperture.
This will be answered by the statement that the image is now formed by refracted rays, outside the dioptric beam.
Very well, if that is the case, then one-half of the aperture of the objective is sufficient to resolve the third band, and it can therefore do no harm if we contract the aperture just a little, say 10 per cent., by means of an iris back of it.
It will be found, however, that as soon as this is done the lines completely disappear.
In fact, just as soon as two minute diffracted beams, visible at margin of objective, are partially eclipsed resolution is at an end.
This experiment, dealing with the "mystery of the dark space" which led Abbe to evolve a new theory, is introduced not to demonstrate that the unilluminated portion of an objective's aperture assists in image formation, which every microscopist must already know, but to call attention to the fact that it does so in a definite manner.
Under the explanation given by the advocates of the dioptric theory alone, different results should be secured according to the character of the object.
In the case of structure that could refract but little light the resolution would be cut down to 10 per cent, or less, owing to the large " antipoint, " which would decrease in size and permit of greater resolution as the power of the object to refract rays increased, until in exceptional cases resolution practically equal to that with a full cone should be attainable.
On the contrary it will always be found that, without regard to the character of the object, the resolution with central light will be just about one-half that with a full cone, or in other words, will correspond to the diffracted beams admitted by the objective.
In the absence of suitable rulings, the fact referred to may be demonstrated with diatoms or any other objects that may be at hand in sufficient variety, by noting the finest structure resolved under the two conditions of illumination, and then carefulh r counting the elements of the structure resolved in a given space.
On a Moller 60 diatom test plate in styrax, the markings on all its forms having been accurately counted and recorded, it was found that the above objective with full cone, resolved Grammatophora serpentina, 48,000 per inch, and with central light reached its limit at the third Navicula lyra, 24,800 per inch, confirming the results from the rulings.
This objective, it may be mentioned, will resolve with oblique light, Navicula Lewisiana, with over 58,000 markings per inch, and thus go considerably beyond the usually accepted theoretical limits for its aperture.
The recorded aperture of the objective, measured when purchased many years ago, was .57 N. A., and the markings of the diatom noted as varying from 57,000 per inch near the ends to 59,000 at centre of valve.
After this resolution was found to be unmistakable, both measurements were repeated.
The extreme rays entering the objective were determined by an Abbe apertometer placed on revolving stage with vernier and illuminated by edge of small lamp flame across the room.
Two readings to tenth degrees at each "end reaction" agreed exactly, and the results, calculated by taking sine of the half angle multiplied by the refractive index of the apertometer, gave a numerical[aperture of .588 which represents the outside limits.
A portion of the diatom valve, about half wa}^ between centre and end, which had been noted as being sharply resolved from raphe to margin, was then accurately counted under a high power, and the mean of a number of closely agreeing counts at slightly different points proved to be 58,800 per inch.
The number in a full thousandth i nch was counted to avoid the possibility of error in a smaller distance.
On glancing down the tube at back of objective when diatom was resolved, this result was at once accounted for, as only the blue and violet of the diffracted beam, with the merest tint of green, was admitted, and it therefore became apparent that for an objective as perfectly corrected as this one, we must use the column calculated for the "F" line, and not that for the "E" line, which is generally accepted as more nearly representing the effect of white light.
It is hardly necessary to add that the resolution was effected with light from an ordinary microscope lamp, without color screen or other aid, as I never test an objective under any conditions, as to illumination or mounting medium, that will differ from those under which it will be used in routine work.
It will be noted that the performance of this objective, when correctly interpreted, is strongly confirmatory of the Abbe theory.
Before proceeding to draw a conclusion from these heterogeneous and rambling notes, collated from records of work at odd times during past couple of }^ears, I wish to reiterate the impartial attitude assumed in undertaking consideration of the subject.
If there was any prejudice, it was in favor of at least a partial acceptance of the dioptric theory.
When Wright's book was received and read, although recognizing many of its fallacies and rendered suspicious by its commendation of such old and discredited devices as the tandem microscope, better known here as "megamicroscope," and the insertion of a stop in the axis of the objective or Ramsden disk of the ocular to produce dark ground illumination, which equals the Abbe diffraction apparatus in its ability to conjure up "optical nightmares," I was nevertheless profoundly impressed, and after re-reading it several times and performing some of the experiments with which I had been previously unacquainted, concluded that the Abbe theory must undergo at least some modification; and if I no longer hold that view, it is principally as the result of experiments which were inaugurated with the idea of demonstrating exactly the reverse of the conclusions I was compelled to draw from them.
Much will of course depend on just what is understood to be included in Abbe's theory, on which various writers are by no means agreed.
In his own papers Abbe appears to assume a thorough acquaintance with optical science on the part of his readers that few of us possess, hence he makes little reference to known facts and theories, but occasional passages show that he did not neglect to give them full consideration.
In the start he unquestionably recognized the effect of absorption and refraction in producing the image, and his theory requires the presence of both dioptric and diffracted beams.
Furthermore, he lays stress on the fact that diffraction in the aperture of the objective will result in every point being imaged by a "dispersive circle" (the "antipoint" of Gordon) of greater or less size according to circumstances, and recommends the examination of a brightly illuminated object through a pinhole one-two hundred and fiftieth of an inch in diameter in a card or piece of tinfoil, to secure an idea of what must be the appearance of the best image that could be produced through a microscope magnifying five thousand diameters, even if the construction was perfect.
If his later application of the diffraction theory to the images of coarser details, earlier termed "absorption images," could be interpreted as a denial that any refracted rays, outside the dioptric beam, entered into the image at all, then indeed some modification is necessary, as most objects unquestionably refract light outside the dioptric beam; and not only do the simplest laws of refraction require that these rays find a place in the image, but there is no other way of accounting for what becomes of them.
It is more likely, however, that Abbe regarded this fact as self-evident.
At any rate, the important work he undertook was not to refute the dioptric theory, but to supplement it by accounting for phenomena which it then, as now, failed to explain.
He has done this in so eminently satisfactory a manner that it would appear that his theory, in all essential details, must be accepted, unless someone can bring indisputable experimental proof of the formation of a microscopical image that goes beyond its possibilities.
Any experiment that merely demonstrates failure to fully realize the possibilities of the Abbe theory, on account of interference with image formation due to diffracted rays arising in the aperture of objective, or anywhere except in the object itself, is not pertinent, as this unavoidable limitation was evidently fully recognized in evolving the theory.
PLATE I. CRAMPTON.
MORPHOLOGY OF SCLERITES.
PLATE II.
CRAMPTON.
MORPHOLOGY OF SCLERITES.
PLATE III.
CRAMPTON.
MORPHOLOGY OF SCLERITES PLATE IV.
CRAMPTON.
MORPHOLOGY OF SCLERITES.
April 6.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Forty-six persons present.
The Publication Committee announced the reception of a paper entitled : " Polychaetous Annelids from Monterey Bay and San Diego, California," By J. Percy Moore (April 6).
The Recording Secretary read a short history of the Academy, prepared for publication in the Founders' Week Memorial Volume.
April 20.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Eighteen members present, The death of Dr. Persifor Frazer, a member, April 7, 1909, was announced.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry made a communication on barnacles, with special reference to certain recently found commensal forms.
John Gribbel and Mrs. Elizabeth B. Gribbel were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed: 13 ARACHNIDA FROM COSTA RICA.
BY NATHAN BANKS.
During the past few years the writer has received large series of spiders and daddy-longlegs from Costa Rica for identification.
Most of these were collected and sent by Prof. J. Fid.
Tristan, of San Jose.
For a few years the late Dr. Paul Biolley sent me several lots, but soon turned the whole matter over to Prof. Tristan.
Most of the specimens were collected at or near San Jose, but there are a considerable number from the Pacific slope of the country.
The majority of the species are of course already recorded by the Biologia CentraUAmerica, but about 70 species are new and about 20 more not treated in that work.
A few species recorded from Costa Rica in the Biologia are not in the collections sent me.
Many of the Costa Rican records in the Biologia, are based on collections from Dr. Biolley and Prof. Tristan, although not expressly so stated in that work.
The collection is similar to most tropical collections of spiders — a large number of Attidse, Epeiridse, and Clubionidse, few Drassidae and Thomisidse.
The number of Phalangida is truly remarkable.
The web-building species show a considerable number that also occur in our country, but of those not building webs there are very few that extend into our borders.
About seven or eight are species commonly found in houses in the tropics of America.
Altogether there are 288 species, 65 of which are Epeiridse, 48 Attidse and 33 Phalangida.
Records without any name are all from Prof. Tristan; elsewhere the collectors are given, "B. and T. " signifying "Biolley and Tristan."
Some species were collected by Mr. Picado; a few by Messrs Lankester and Maxon.
THERAPHOSID^].
Eurypelma longipes Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 21, 1897.
Machuca.
Eurypelma seemanni Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 26, 1897.
Atenas, August (Picado), and Pozo Azal de Pirris (Pac), 150 m., April (Biolley).
Eurypelma vagans Ausserer.
Verli.
zool.
hot, Ges.
Wien, 1875, 197.
Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.), and San Joaquin.
Tapinauchenius reduncus Karsch.
Zeitschr.
f. ges.
Naturw., LIII, 387, 1880.
Turrijal, San Jose; Pacaca; Cangrial de Aserri; Rio Reventazon, near Santa Clara (Pac), December (Biolley); Turrialba; and San Jose.
Sphserobothria hoffmanni Karsch.
Zeitsclir.
f. ges.
Naturw., LII, p. 536, 1879.
Herran; and San Jose, in the houses and in trunks of old trees.
Scbizopelma bicarinatum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 28, 1897.
Pacayas, N. de Cervantes (Atl.
), March, 1,500 m. (Biolley).
Acanthopelma rufescens Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 34, 1897.
Esparte (B.).
Ischuothele guianensis Walckenaer.
Hist.
Xat.
Apt., I, 23, 1S37.
El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 230 m. (B. and T.); and Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Hapalopus pentaloris Simon.
Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, 1888, 216.
San Jose, under stones (B.
); Aserri, February (B.
); Atenas (Picado), and Salinas de Albina (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Fufius atromentarius Simon.
Arm.
Soc.
Ent.
France, 1888, 213.
Machuca.
Pachylomerus rugosus Karsch.
Zeitschr.
f. ges.
Naturw., LIII, p. 388, 1880.
San Jose; and Santa Maria Dota, January, one with nest from the ground.
Metriopelma zebrata n. sp.
Carapace red-brown, clothed with golden or tawny hairs, most dense on the sides near margin.
Legs, sternum, and venter black, black-haired, but the legs with some long tawny hairs.
Abdomen black, with four nearly vertical golden bands on each side, reaching up to a middle golden area on dorsum ; many long tawny hairs on the abdomen.
Legs long and slender; with many spines on the hind pairs ; tibiae I and II of male without spurs, but with the two pairs of spines, as in the other species of the genus.
Metatarsi I and II scopulate on apical half; tarsus IV with scopula divided by a row of hairs.
Length 33 mm.
From Jesus Maria, Costa Rica (Biolley), and San Domingo de San Mateo (Maxon).
Metriopelma morosus n. sp.
Black; carapace reddish, venter black, coxse and sternum dark redbrown.
Clothed with fine red-brown hairs and long, erect bristles, hind legs with many spines, tarsus IV with scopula divided by a row of hairs; the long hairs on abdomen more tawny.
Legs long and slender; tibia?
I and II each with two pairs of spines below, as in the other species of the genus, no spurs.
Length 25 mm.
From Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria, Platanal, Costa Rica, January (Biolley and Tristan).
El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.), and Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Differs at once from the two known species by the shape of bulb of palpus.
FILISTATID^J.
Filistata hibemalis Hentz.
Spiders U. S., 23, 1875.
San Jose, in the houses; and Tiribi.
OONOPID^.
Dysderina plena Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 143, 1895.
La Palma.
SCYTODIDJE.
Scytodes championi Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 51, 1S99.
From El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Scytodes fusca Walckenaer.
Ins.
Apt,, I, 272, 1837.
Huacaste.
Scytodes intricata n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish, with black markings as indicated in the figure, very heavy behind; legs densely banded and spotted with black, the bands narrow, often oblique and sometimes connected to the spots; mandibles each with a black stripe curved outward near the tip.
Abdomen densely streaked with black, a larger median black spot behind middle, and behind this the abdomen is pale with a few triangular black spots near the spinnerets, venter black on base extending back each side, median area pale; tips of coxse black, sternum mostly black, a pale median stripe and some spots each side; vulva shows two plates each side similar to S. longipes, but farther apart, and not narrowed at base.
Cephalothorax rather longer than in many species.
Length 6.5 mm.
Specimens from Tegas de Cartiigo (Tristan and Biolley), Tiribi (T.), San Jose (T.), Guayabo (Alfaro), Turricares (T.), Cartago (Picado), La Palma (T.), Surubres (B.
), and Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac.)
(B. and T.).
DRASSIDJE.
Echemus tropicalis n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish, A. M. E. on black spots; legs rather more brownish on basal joints; abdomen brown, venter paler brown; sternum and spinnerets yellowish.
P. M. E. oval, about one diameter apart, closer to oval P. S. E., which nearly touch A. S. E. ; A. M. E. one diameter apart, closer to the A. S. E. Sternum one and onefourth times longer than broad, pointed behind.
Legs rather long, a couple of small spines under tibiae I and II, all femora with several spines above.
Readily distinguished from E. pedestris by the P. M. E. well separated, and by the color of the legs, etc.
Length 4.5 mm.
From Chiral Paraiso, Costa Rica (Tristan and Biolley).
CLUBIONIDiE.
Trachelas morosus n. sp.
Cephalothorax, mandibles, and sternum red-brown; cephalothorax granulate, sternum nearly smooth, maxillae without apical process, rounded at tip.
Legs yellowish brown, leg I more red-brown, especially at base; abdomen dark brown, hairy, without scutum.
By these characters it would be near the T. spirifer of the Biologia, but differs at once in the shape of the style to the palpal bulb, which here is short and stout; the tibial process is quite large and long.
Length 7 mm.
One male from Aguas Caliente, Costa Rica (Picado).
Trachelas bispinosus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 79, 1899.
La Palma; Tablazo; Santa Maria Dota; and Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.).
Trachelas similis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 80, 1899.
Tejar de Cart ago.
Corinna pictipes n. sp.
Cephalothorax dark red-brown, almost black, mandibles the same, sternum also; abdomen black, with a median triangular yellow spot, behind clothed with some yellowish hair; cephalothorax with some golden hair.
Legs variegated; coxse pale, trochanters with black spot in front and behind; femora black near base and near tip each side; patella?
dark near tip; tibia> mostly brown, apical half of I and tip of IV pale, metatarsi and tarsi mostly pale brown.
Cephalothorax nearly twice as long as wide, narrowed behind, above with a curved transverse furrow in front of the dorsal groove; the posterior eye-row is slightly procurved, the eyes almost equidistant; the mandibles large and slightly porrect; about six fine teeth on lower margin of fang groove; palpi long, very hairy and black, except the basal joint; the sternum is plainly longer than broad, and shows each side near coxse I a distinct oval depression; abdomen elongate; legs slender, with few spines.
Length 8 mm.
From Tejar de Cartago, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Corinna modesta n. sp.
Carapace, sternum, and tips of legs red-brown, basal part of legs yellow-brown, mandibles nearly black; abdomen dark brown, paler beneath.
Clypeus plainly higher than A. M. E. ; six teeth on lower margin of the fang groove; sternum and legs not granulose; four pairs of spines under tibia I, no apicals, two under metatarsi, three pairs under tibia III; vulva with two circular cavities in a hard plate, this plate is punctate in front and on the sides.
Length 10 mm.
.From Santa Maria, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Corinna mucronata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 69, 1899.
San Jose; La Palma; Escazii; Tablazo (B.
); and Cartago (Picado).
Megalostrata formidabilis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 106, 1893.
Santa Maria Dota; Cartago; and San Jose.
Clubiona tristani n. sp.
Carapace yellowish brown, darker in eye-region; mandibles redbrown; legs yellowish, metatarsi and tarsi darker.
Abdomen black above, a pale median area to the middle, and a series of pale chevrons behind; venter pale.
A. M. E. barely, if any, larger than the P. M. E., not one-half diameter apart and still nearer to the laterals; P k M. E. fully two diameters apart and about as far from the laterals ; legs with long erect hairs, tibiae I and II with 2-2-2 spines beneath, last apical, small; metatarsi with a pair at base; metatarsi and tarsi scopulate on legs I and II.
Tibial spur of male palpus similar to that of C. tricuspis, but narrower and somewhat different at tip, as shown in the figure.
Length 10 mm.
From Tablago, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Clubiona tigrina Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 238, 1898.
San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; Santa Maria Dota; Tiribi; and Escazii.
Clubiona tumivulva n. sp.
Cephalothorax bright yellowish, more brownish in front, mandibles yellow-brown; legs and sternum pale yellowish, abdomen gray above, on posterior part with black marks, a median herring-bone mark and some spots on the upper sides, black.
Legs I and II with a scopula below tarsi and metatarsi, and on the apical part of tibiae.
Vulva with a very broad median tongue, behind this the black area is greatly swollen out.
Length 10 mm.
From Hatillo, Costa Rica (Picado).
Differs from C. tigrinus by shape of vulva.
Chemmis frederici Simon.
Hist.
Nat.
Araign.
(ed.
2), II, 215, 1898.
Santa Maria Dota; Tejar de Cartago; San Jose; and Fortuna.
Chiracanthium ferum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 228, 1897.
Cartago.
Pelayo insignis n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish, eye-region black, also the clypeus, extending back on each side a short distance; mandibles black; legs and palpi yellowish; abdomen yellowish, a black stripe on each anterior side, and a median black stripe, forked behind; behind it are two broad black chevrons, and then an apical spot, venter pale, with a broad median band from the lung-slits to the ventral furrow, extended slightly at each apical corner, and then a broad band from the furrow to the spinnerets, extended each side to the spinnerets.
Posterior eye-row a trifle recurved, the P. M. E. farther from each other than from the equal P. S. E. Tibia I and II with 2-2-2 spines, last small, apical.
Ventral furrow of abdomen much nearer to spinnerets than to base.
Length 4.5 mm.
Volcan Poas, April, Costa Rica.
The markings of abdomen are very characteristic.
Strotarchus minor n. sp.
Cephalothorax and legs yellow-brown, head darker; mandibles redbrown ; abdomen above and below gray-brown ; sternum yellow-brown ; maxillae and lip black, tip of palpus black.
Legs long and slender, with few weak spines beneath, 2-2 under tibiae I and II; vulva with large transverse concavity in front, behind is a chitinous ridge, and behind that is a curved dark line each side.
Length 8 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Aysha minuta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 99, 1900.
San Jose.
Aysha simplex Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 227, 1S97.
Anyphaena delicatula n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish, irregularly marked with blackish each side; eyes on black spots; abdomen pale, with many large grayish spots above nearly covering the dorsum; legs pale, slightly marked with black; sternum and venter pale.
P. M. E. over one diameter apart, fully as far from the equal P. S. E. ; A. M. E. plainly smaller than A. S. E. Tibiae and metatarsi I and II with 2-2 spines beneath; abdomen rather short and broad, the ventral furrow at about middle of venter.
Length 5 mm.
One female from Tablago, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Anyphaena plana Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 97, 1900.
La Palma; and Poas Volcan.
Anyphaena simplex Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 124, 1894.
San Jose.
Tendis elegans n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown, a median pale stripe from back of pars cephalica to tip, and a lateral pale stripe, much broken up in front; mandibles red-brown; legs yellowish, densely marked with small black spots, almost forming a band near the base of tibia, extreme bases of tibiae (especially III and IV) are very pale.
Abdomen brown, with four triangular median black spots from the middle to tip, the basal one is divided; venter pale; sternum dark, with pale median area.
Posterior eye-row procurved, eyes equal; P. M. E. less than diameter apart, fully diameter from the laterals ; A. M. E. very small ; legs slender, tibiae I and II with 2-2 spines beneath, no apical pair visible; metatarsi I and II with one pair of spines beneath ; ventral furrow at middle of the venter.
Length 5 mm.
From Tablago, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Teudis gentilis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 199, 1896.
San Jose.
Teudis bicolor n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish, legs and palpi pale, mandibles pale as also the sternum; abdomen olive-brown, above and below without markings.
Eyes rather close together, posteriors equidistant; A. M. E. close together, and as near to larger A. S. E. The metatarsi I and II scopulate, and with one pair of long basal spines, and two laterals; all spines very long; legs long and slender; abdomen rather elongate.
Length 10 mm.
From Aguas Caliente, Costa Rica (Picado).
Sillus putus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 200, 1896.
Tablazo.
Sillus longispina Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 104, 1900.
From El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Eutichurus frontalis n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellow; mandibles black, paler on base; legs pale yellowish, tips of tarsi black; maxillae black; sternum yellow; abdomen yellowish gray above and below.
Cephalothorax rather broad and high in front, no dorsal groove; eye-rows broad; A. M. E. slightly larger than the S. E., posterior eyes subequal, the P. M. E. as far apart as from the P. S. E. ; legs slender; mandibles high, not porrect; one spine under tibia I, a pair under base of metatarsus I; last joint of upper spinnerets long, but not as long as in E. fcrox; vulva shows a large elliptical cavity.
Length 8 mm.
From Aguas Caliente, January, Costa Rica (Picado).
HERSILIIDJE.
Tama mexicana Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 107, 1893.
La Verbena; Surubres (B.
); and San Jose, on the branches of trees.
AGALENID^i.
Agalena costata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 337, 1902.
Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); and Santa Maria Dota.
Agalena penetralia Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 337, 1902.
Turrialba; Poas Volcano; Tiribi; Tablazo, September; Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); La Verbena; and San Jose (Picado).
Tegenaria sp.
Immature specimens from Tablazo and Fortnna.
Metafecenia albolineata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 356, 1902.
Tiribi.
DICTYNID^J.
Dictyna parietalis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 171, 1896.
San Jose, 5th July (Picado); and Tejar de Cartago.
ULOBORID^J.
Uloborus geniculatus Olivier.
Encycl.
Method., IV, 214, 1789.
La Verbena.
Uloborus spernax Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 265, 1902.
Orosi, 6th July (Picado).
Uloborus plumipes Lucas.
Explor.
Alger.
Anim.
Art,, I, 252, 1849.
Orosi, 9th July (Picado).
Uloborus signatUS Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 264, 1898.
La Verbena.
PHOLCID^.
Physocyclus dugesi Simon.
Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, 1893, 320.
Santa Maria Dota; Tejar de Cartago; Paraiso; and San Jose, a house spider.
Modisimus inornatus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 149, 1895.
La Palma.
THERIDIID^E.
Theridium fordum Keyserling.
Spina.
Anier.
Therid., I, 23, 1SS4.
Santa Maria Uota; Tejar de Cartago, July; Tiribi; La Verbena; Anonos, September; Fortuna; Escazii; Turrialba; La Bolca (Picado); Punta Arenas (Biolley); San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; San Jose, March; and Uricuajo (Pac.)
(B. and T.).
Theridium oblivium Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 207, 1896.
Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); La Palma; and La Verbena.
Theridium taeniatum Keyserling.
Spinn.
Amer.
Therid., I, 12, 1S84.
Turrialba, Tablazo; and Escazii.
Theridium mixtum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 206, 1896.
Turrialba; Orosi, 2d July (Picado); and San Joaquin Heredia Espinach.
Theridium compressum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 383, 1902.
Orosi, 19th July (Picado).
Theridium florens Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 205, 1896.
Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); Fortuna, with cocoon; Cartago, July, with nest; and San Jose (Picado).
Theridium rufipes Lucas Explor.
Algerie, Zool., Ill, 263, 1849.
Santa Maria Dota; and San Jose (B.).
Theridium fordulum n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish, a median black stripe over clypeus through eye-area, and back where it tapers to a point; sides with a broad black stripe.
Abdomen dark brown, mottled with brown and black and many silvery white marks, these silvery marks faintly outline a median folium on the anterior part of the dorsum, from its ends a bright silvery line extends down on each side, behind on the middle is an interrupted silvery line to tip.
Venter with a black mark, narrowed behind, sternum black, with a median pale streak.
Legs pale, heavily marked with black, the joints with broad black bands at tip, and the rest of femur, tibia and metatarsus more or less dotted with black; the hind femora are mostly black beneath, mandibles pale, each with an inner dark line.
Abdomen high and rounded.
Metatarsus I about as long as' tibia plus patella I.
Length 2.5 mm.
Chiral Paraiso, Costa Rica (Tristan and Biolley).
Theridium biolleyi a. sp.
Cephalothorax pale, with a broad median black stripe from eyes to base, widened and then narrowed before middle, and with a lateral extension each side, margin narrowly black; legs pale, with rings and marks, mostly at middle and tip of joints, except tarsi.
Dorsum dark gray and white, with black patches mostly to outline a pale median stripe; sternum dark, pale on each anterior side; venter pale, with some small white spots," and a pair of larger submedian black spots.
Legs long, very bristly, tibia I a trifle shorter than the metatarsus I; abdomen moderately high, rather long.
General structure as in T. tepidariorum; vulva shows two small openings as figured.
Length 4 mm.
From Tablazo, Costa Rica (Biolley).
Theridium rostratum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran:, I, 204, 1S96.
Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.).
Theridium thorelli Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 132, 1894.
Ahaya (Picado); and Volcano Poas.
Theridium pioadoi n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown, a broad dark-brown stripe on each lower side.
Abdomen generally pale, with a large black spot on each anterior side, a smaller one behind it; on the dorsum behind the middle is a large black spot, emarginate in front.
Sternum yellow-brown, with a median black streak, venter with a median black stripe, and the posterior of the side-marks reaches down on the venter.
Legs dull yellowish, femora suffused black, with a paler spot above the tibia and metatarsus with a dark ring at tip; mandibles yellowish, each with two dark lines in front.
Femora of legs rather heavy ; metatarsus I hardly as long as tibia plus patella I; abdomen not especially high, rounded above.
Length 3 mm.
From Orosi, Costa Rica, 18th July (Picado).
Anelosimus studiosus Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., VI, 274, 1850.
Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); Aguas Calientes (Picado); Chiral (B. and T.) ; Anonos; Tablazo; and Escazii.
Dipoena micratula n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish, rather darker on the sides, eyes surrounded by black, palpi pale yellowish; legs yellowish on femora, rest greenish; abdomen greenish gray, a black spot above the spinnerets and a black median stripe on venter ; sternum yellowish.
Cephalothorax high; eyes rather large, A. M. E. larger than others; clypeus concave; abdomen short and broad, and high; legs slender, but short, finely hairy, palpi as figured.
Length 1 mm.
Orosi, Costa Rica, 5th July (Picado).
Dipoena proba Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 294, 1899.
Fortuna (B. and T.); and Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.).
Teutana grossa Koch.
Die Arachn., IV, 112, 183S.
Cartago (Picado) ; and Turrialba, August.
Steatoda americana Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 377, 1902.
Anonos, September.
Lithyphantes hermosa n. sp.
Cephalothorax and legs reddish, femora more purplish; abdomen purplish, with two oblique white bands each side, and a pale area behind near tip; venter purplish, with a white crescent-like mark in front of the spinnerets; sternum reddish.
Legs short; abdomen broadest and rather highest behind.
Vulva showing two circular orifices, fully their diameter apart.
Length 3.2 mm.
Punta Arenas, Costa Rica (Biolley).
Argyrodes americanus Taczanowski.
Hor.
Soc.
Ent.
Ross., X, 62, 1873.
Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); La Verbena, March; Anonos, September; and Orosi, 2d July (Picado).
Argyrodes maculosus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 25S, 1898.
Santa Maria Dota.
Neriene maculosa n. sp.
Cephalothorax orange, eyes on black spots, legs pale yellow, coxae and mandibles orange, sternum also orange; abdomen brown, a faint paler median area, which, behind the middle, is more definite and margined by two black streaks to tip of abdomen, rest of the dorsum spotted with white, most of the spots on the upper sides ; venter dark, with a few white spots, and each side a little beyond ends of lungslits is a larger white spot.
Vulva as figured for N. convexa and emarginata; a pair of cavities separated by a median septum, which behind shows a short tongue.
Abdomen of female rather broad, pointed behind, much like a Euro-pis.
Length 3 mm.
From Cartago, Costa Rica, 1st July (Picado).
A male that may belong to the species is from Orosi, 2d July.
Neriene gamma Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 419, 1902.
San Jose.
Neriene bisignata n. sp.
Cephalothorax and mandibles yellowish-brown ; legs paler, posterior sides of cephalothorax rather darker, eyes on black spots, sternum, venter and palpal organ black; dorsum of abdomen mostly white, a median black stripe and some lateral and apical marks as figured.
Legs very slender, especially the tarsi; palpus with a slender, curved, basal hook, an apical pointed process and a more slender style, pointing toward the process.
A female has the abdomen marked the same, but the cephalothorax is dark brown.
Length 3 mm.
From Aguas Caliente, January (Tristan), and San Jose, in Bromelia (Picado), Costa Rica.
Neriene postica ».
sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish in the middle, dark on sides ; sternum black; abdomen greenish gray, with some cretaceous white spots, and dark marks as figured, the tip conical and jet black; venter black, a white spot each side at base of the spinnerets; legs greenish yellow.
Cephalothorax narrow, head high; posterior middle eyes very large, situate on tubercles, one and one-half diameter apart, about one diameter from the laterals.
Length 2.5 mm.
From Orosi, 5th June, Costa Rica (Picado).
Frontinella communis Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat, Hist,, VI, 28, 1S47.
La Palma.
MIMETID^J.
Mimetus rapax Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 296, 1899.
Turrialba; and Escazii.
EPEIRIDiE.
Tetragnatha alba Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 432, 1902.
San Jose (B. and T.); La Bolca (Picado); and Aguas Calientes (Picado).
Tetragnatha antillana Simon.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond., 1897, S68.
San Jose; La Verbena; San Joaquin; and Tejar de Cartago.
Tetragnatha guatemalensie Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Araehn.
Aran., I, 8, 1889.
San Jose; and Santa Maria Dota.
Tetragnatha mexicana Keyserling.
Verh.
zool.
hot.
Ges.
Wien, 1865, 854.
La Verbena.
Tetragnatha confraterna n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale, with indication of a broad stripe over head, divided by a pale median line.
Abdomen dark, rather swollen at base, and at tip above is slightly projecting; legs of male very pale, of female darker.
Anterior side-eyes plainly smaller and well separated from the posterior side-eyes; anterior median eyes larger than all others.
Mandibles porrect, elongate; in female nearly as long as the cephalothorax, the outer corner below with a strong tooth ; the male mandibles are about as long as the cephalothorax, slightly divergent, toothed as in the figure; the tibia and patella of palpus of equal length.
Length 10-12 mm.
From Machuca (Biolley), Escazii (Tristan), Tiribi (Tristan), and Esparte (Biolley); all Costa Rica.
Tetragnatha tenuissima Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Araehn.
Aran., I, 9, 1889.
Tejar de Cartago; and Orosi (Picado).
Tetragnatha tropica Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Araehn.
Aran., I, 11, 1889.
Guanacaste (Lankester).
Tetragnatha tristani n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish, abdomen rather silvery above; venter and sternum blackish; legs pale, greenish yellow, tips of tibia 1 and metatarsi darker; S. E. touching, the lower one much the smaller; abdomen not very slender; mandibles not very long, nor much porrect, a tooth above before tip, not very long, and three subequal teeth on inner margin.
It runs to T. digitata in the Biologia, having the tibia of palpus extremely short, but differs in the mandibles.
Length 4 mm.
San Jose (Tristan).
Agriognatha bella Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 213, 1896.
Machuca (B.).
Doliohognatha tuberculata Keyserling.
Spinn.
Amer.
Epeirid., 265, 1893.
Turrialba.
Azilia guatemalensis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 12, 1889.
Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Nephila clavipes Linne.
Syst.
Nat.
(XII), 1034, 1767.
Rio Reventazon, Plaines de Santa Clara, December (B.
); and Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Metargyra debilis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 5, 18S9.
La Palma.
Leucauge moerens Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 1S5, 1S96.
Turrialba.
Leucauge fragilis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 6, 1889.
Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Leuoauge hortorum Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist,, V, 477, 1847.
Santa Maria Dota; Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); La Verbena; and Cartago, 8th July (Picado).
Leucauge acuminata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 5, 1889.
Turrialba (Picado).
Pseudometa bella n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish, with a median black streak from eyes to near base, its anterior part geminate by a pale line.
Legs pale yellowish, tips of tibiae darker; sternum black; abdomen whitish on sides, in middle above is a broad blackish stripe, including a pair of pale spots; venter black in the middle, white on sides, and a white dot each side near the spinnerets.
Length 3 mm.
From Santa Maria, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Pseudometa albo guttata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 2, 1889.
Tablazo.
Pseudometa decolorata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 3, 1S89.
Orosi, in Bromelia karatos, 2d July (Picado).
Argiope argentata Fabricius.
Ent.
Syst., II, 414, 1793.
Salinas de Albina (Pac), January (B. and T.); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.); Uricuajo (Pac), January (B. and T.); Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.); San Jose (B.
); and Punta Arenas (B.).
Argiope personata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 110, 1892.
Chiral (B. and T.); and San Jesus.
Cyolosa walckenaeri Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 47, 1SS9.
Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.); and El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.).
Cyclosa conica Pallas.
Spicil.
Zool., I, 48, 1772.
San Jose.
Cyolosa caroli Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., VI, 24, 1850.
Tejar de Cartago; San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; and Orosi, 6th July (Picado).
Cyclosa index Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 51, 1S89.
Aguas Calientes, July (Picado); La Fortuna; Cartago; Santa Maria Dota; and Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.).
Mangora trilineata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 14, 1889.
Orosi, 2d July (Picado).
Mangora spinula Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 4S0, 1903.
Orosi, 9th July (Picado).
Mangora picta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 14, 1889.
Orosi (Picado).
14 Eriophora purpurascens Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 33, 1889.
San Jose (B.)
; and Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B.).
Eriophora edax Blackwall.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(3), XI, 30, 1863.
San Jose, Punta Arenas (B.
); Surubres (B.
); and Hatillo, 9th June (Picado).
Eriophora minax Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Amer.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 112, 1893.
San Jose; Anonos, September; Atenas, August (Picado); Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.); and Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B. and T.).
Eriophora bivariolata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 27, 1889.
San Jose; and La Verbena.
Eriophora nephiloides Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 32, 1889.
San Jose, 9th October (Picado); and Tiribi.
Epeira pallidula Keyserling.
Sitzungsb.
Nat.
Ges.
Isis, Dresden, 1863, 124.
Turrialba.
Epeira anguinifera Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 514, 1904.
Turrialba.
Epeira fuscovittata Keyserling.
Sitzungsb.
Nat.
Ges.
Isis, Dresden, 1863, 129.
La Verbena; El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January, 250 m. (B. and T.) ; Surubres, February.
Epeira soutigera Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 243, 1898.
San Jose; Aguas Calientes (Picado).
Epeira vulgaris Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 469, 1847.
San Jose, very common house spider; Escazii; Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Epeira solersioides Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 25, 1889.
El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.).
Epeira minima Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 471, 1904.
Escazii.
Epeira domiciliorum Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 469, 1847.
San Jose.
Epeira detrimentosa Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Amer.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 26, 1889.
San Jose (B.
); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.).
Epeira globosa Keyserling.
Verh.
zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, 1865, 820.
El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.).
Epeira incerta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 23, 1889.
San Jose, abundant house spider; Fortuna (T. and B.
); Cartago, 8th July (Picado); Tiribi; La Verbena; Surubres (B.
); Aguas Calientes (Picado); Anonos, September; Machuca (B.
); San Joaquin Heredia Espinach.
Epeira gravabilis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 33, 1889.
Volcan Poas, March.
Epeira miorosoma n. sp.
Male; cephalothorax yellowish, eyes on black spots; legs yellowish, femora and tibia?
darkened on apical half; abdomen yellowish brown, with an indistinct, broad, dark brown median area, containing a pair of small yellow spots ; sternum pale.
Abdomen twice as long as broad ; legs not thickened, and without groups of spines.
The male palpus shows a curved black piece at apex, and on the inner side a plate with two prominent black teeth.
A female (probably of this species) has the legs and body more unicolorous, sternum darker; abdomen nearly round.
The smallest Epeira known to me.
Length cT 2 mm., 9 2.2 mm.
From La Palma, on bushes, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Epeira anastera Walckenaer.
Ins.
Apt., II, 33, 1842.
La Verbena, in nest of a mud-dauber wasp.
Epeira smithi Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 280, 1898.
Santa Maria Dota.
Epeira bifida Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 507, 1904.
La Verbena, in nest of mud-dauber wasp ; Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.), in nest of a Hymenopteron.
Metepeira labyrinthea Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 471, 1847.
San Jose; and Anonos, September.
Metazygia gregalis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 22, 1889.
San Jose, very abundant (B.
); La Verbena; Tiribi.
Larinia directa Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 478, 1847.
Machuca (B.
); Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.); and El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), (B. and T.).
Mahadiva 11-variolata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 53, 1889.
Aguas Calientes, July (Picado).
Acrosoma gracilis Walckenaer.
Tabl.
des Aran., 65, 1805.
Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Acrosoma obtusispina Keyserling.
Sitzungsb.
Nat.
Ges.
Isis, Dresden, 1863, 76.
Tiribi; Machuca (B.
); Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.).
Acrosoma inaequalis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn Aran., II, 535, 1904.
La Verbena, near San Jose.
Acroioma triserrata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 534, 1904.
Tablazo.
Aorosoma patruelis Koch.
Die Arachn., VI, 130, 1839.
Turrialba; Orosi, 2d July (Picado).
Acrosoma fidelis n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellowish, legs more reddish; abdomen clear yellow above, darker on sides and behind, tips of spines black.
Abdomen about twice as long as broad, not very much broader behind, where it is furcate, each corner terminating in two small equal spines, one above the other; on each side of dorsum are two spines, one small bevond middle, the other one larger before middle, none in front.
Length 6 mm.
From Tablazo, September, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Differs from nearly all the species which have two spines at each posterior corner in lacking spines at anterior corners.
A.bisicata Walck., which seems allied, has ten spines.
Acrosoma 1 2-spinosa Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 63, 1890.
Machuca (B.
); Pitahaya, August (Picado); Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.) Acrosoma sexspinosa Hahn.
Die Arachn., II, 18, 1S34.
Surubres (B.
); Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac); January (B. and T.).
Acrosoma mammillata Butler.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond., 1S73, 427.
Esparta (Pac), 50 m., January (B.).
Gasteracantha kochi Butler.
Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond., 1S73, 169 Punta Arenas (B.)
; San Jose, abundant on coffee plantations ; Guadelupe, July (Picado) ; San Joaquin Heredia Espinach ; Hatillo, 8th June (Picado) ; Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.) y Tricantha tricornis Simon.
Hist.
Nat.
Araign.
(I ed.
)., 293, 1864.
Tablazo.
SPARASSID^J.
Strophius hirsutus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 87, 1891.
Turrialba.
Heteropoda venatoria Linnet Syst.
Nat.
(XII), 1035, 1767.
Punta Arenas (B.
); Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Selenops mexicanus Keyserling.
Spinn.
Amer.
Laterg., 223, 1880.
San Jose, in houses; Escazii; Pacaca; San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.); Canorejal de Asseri (Pac), 800 m., April (B.).
Selenops bifurcatus n. sp.
Cephalothorax yellow; eyes on black spots; abdomen brown; legs yellow, banded with black; sternum and venter pale.
Length cT, 10 mm.
Known by the forked apophysis of the tibia of male palpus.
A female is about of the same size ; the vulva is very similar to that of S. mexicanus, but narrower.
Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Sparassus obscurus Keyserling.
Spinn.
Amer.
Laterg., I, 255, 1880.
Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B. and T.).
Sparassus audax n. sp.
Male, pale yellowish; abdomen with some black marks above more or less in lines; tips of tarsi and of palpi darker; venter sometimes showing a median black area.
Female, more yellowish brown; abdomen more spotted, a faint, basal, median line; venter with a broad, black middle area; mandibles blackish, with two black lines; tarsi and metatarsi infuscate.
Anterior eye-row straight, M. E. large; legs very long.
Differs from S. simoni by lack of black at tips of femora and tibiae, and from all males by shape of the palpus.
Length 9 15 mm., c^ 12 mm.
Punta Arenas (B.
); Santa Maria Dota (T.); San Jose (T.), Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.); Orosi (Picado); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac.)
(B. and T.), and Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m. (B. and T.), February.
Sparassus crassus n. sp.
Wholly pale yellowish; mandibles and venter pale; legs very long and slender.
Easily known by the extremely heavy tibial apophysis, as shown in the figure.
Length c?
, 10 mm.
.
San Joaquin Heredia Espinach, February (T.) Epicadus granulatus n. sp.
Eyes arranged as in this genus; carapace with a raised point at the dorsal groove.
Abdomen high; dorsum hard, and with many small granules and tubercles of irregular size, also small ones on the cephalothorax.
Legs I and II equal; no median apical spine to metatarsi; tibiae I and II with 2-2 spines, metatarsi I and II with 2-2-2 spines; legs roughened and granulate.
Length 18 mm.
; abdomen high 13 m. Surubres (Biolley), Costa Rica.
THOMISID^J.
Xystious advectus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 71, 1890.
Cartago (Picado).
Synema affinitatum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 82, 1891.
Tablazo; La Palma.
Synema maculosum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 81, 1891.
La Palma, on the shrubs.
Bassania aemula Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 249, 1898.
Turrialba.
Runcinia magna Keyserling.
Spinn.
Amer.
Laterg., 125, 1880 Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Misumena asperata Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 447, 1847.
Cartago (Picado).
Apollophanes punctipes Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 79, 1891.
Los Anonos, September; Tiribi; San Jose (Picado).
PISAURID^l.
Enna velox Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 232, 1S97.
Pacaca.
Thaumasia nigrinus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 310, 1901.
Herbesan, San Jose, February (B.
); La Verbena; San Jose.
Lyoootenus bogotensis Keyserling.
Verh.
zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, 1877, 684.
Esparta (B.
); Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February B.
), under stones on bank of river.
Cupiennius sallei Keyserling.
Verh.
zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, 1877, 685.
Pacaca; Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac); 250 m., February (B.).
Cupiennius minimus n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown on central region, paler on the sides, abdomen with large broad folium above, sometimes (in two specimens) truncated behind by a broad pale spot.
Venter pale, no median stripe; legs mottled with blackish above, no speckles beneath.
Abdomen is much broader than in C. foliatus ; vulva as figured.
It is the smallest species, only 12 to 14 mm.
long in female.
Sta.
Maria Dota, Costa Rica.
Cupiennius foliatus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 307, 1901.
Turrialba ; La Palma.
Cupiennius getazi Simon.
Bull.
Soc.
Zool.
France, 1891, 110 San Jose; Turrialba, May.
Cupiennius griseus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 307, 1901.
Tablazo; Sta.
Maria Dota.
Trechalea convexa Cambridge.
Biol.
Cent.
Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 233, 1898.
Sta.
Maria Dota; Turricares, February; Tiribi; Pacaca; Uricuajo (Pac.)
; Rio Jesus Maria (Pac.)
(B. and T.) ; El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.); Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), February (B.
), under stones.
CTENIDJE.
Ctenus sinuatipes Cambridge.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), XIX, 84, 1897.
Aguas Calientes (Picado); La Palma; San Jose, in houses; San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; La Carpintera, 1,500 m., October (Alfaro); Estacion de Turrialba (Maxon); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January, 250 m. (B. and T.).
Ctenus spiralis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 112, 1900.
Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B. and T.).
Ctenus incolans Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 111, 1900.
Huacas (Pac).
Ctenus supinus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 110, 1900.
La Verbena.
Ctenus oonvexus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 114, 1900.
Pacaca; Sta.
Maria Dota.
Ctenus peregrinus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 110, 1900.
San Jose, on the walls of houses ; Turrialba ; Pacaca ; Tejar de Cartago.
Acanthoctenus spinipes Cambridge.
Verb.
zool.
bot.
Ges.
Wien, 1876, 695.
Tiribi; San Jose (B. and T.); Salvinas de Attina (Pac), January (B. and T.).
LYCOSIDJE.
Sosippus agalenoides n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown; a very narrow, median pale line, sides nar rowly pale, mandibles jet black on front, a narrow line of yellow hair each side, palpi black at tip; legs pale yellowish, tarsi and metatarsi blackish, sternum and coxae pale yellowish.
Abdomen pale grayish yellow above, with a brown median stripe from base to tip, not outlined by pale, but with a few pale spots on anterior sides, and behind this it is dentated; venter wholly pale.
Length 22 mm.
From Punta Arenas, Costa Rica (Biolley).
Differs from S. mexicanus in larger size, different abdominal markings, rather broader cephalothorax, and in the shape of the vulva.
Sosippus mexicanus Simon.
Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France, 1888, 206.
El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Arctosa trifida Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 330, 1902.
Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria, January (B. and T.).
Arctosa minuta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 331, 1902.
Tiribi; San Jose; Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Lycosa insignis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 272, 1898.
Punta Arenas (B.
); San Joaquin Heredia Espinach, in the pastures.
Lycosa longitarsis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 327, 1902.
Guanacaste (Lankester); Atenas (Picado); San Jose; San Joaquin Heredia Espinach.
Lycosa brevitarsis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 327, 1902.
San Jose; Sta.
Maria Dota.
Lycosa signiventris n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown, head black; a pale narrow median stripe rom head to base, side margins narrowly pale, a short curved pale stripe each side under dorsal eye reaching forward; mandibles with tawny yellow hairs, except black along inner side, showing a broad median black stripe, each side tawny; legs pale brown to middle, rest darker, femora with a black mark below at tip, a narrow one at base of tibia?
and middle of tibia?
and beyond nearly black; tibiae III and IV pale beneath, with a black mark at base and at tip; coxa?
and sternum pale, the former infuscated.
Abdomen pale above, with a larger, black, basal spear-mark, followed by many small dots and many lateral dots and marks; base of venter to furrow pale, beyond covered with a large, deep-black mark, having each side of the middle a clear pale elongate spot.
Length 27 mm.
From San Joaquin (Tristan).
The common name is "Pica caballo. "
Lycosa subfusca Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 325, 1902.
Huacas (Pac).
Lycosa morosina n. sp.
Cephalothorax with a broad bright yellowish-brown stripe on middle, black in the eye-region, brown on sides, with indications of some pale spots near margin; palpi yellowish, basal joint brown; legs dark brown on femora, yellowish beyond; mandibles yellowish brown, with some yellowish hairs.
Sternum black, coxa?
blackish; abdomen dark brown, a black mark over base followed by a broad pale yellowish mark, not extending far each side; venter black on sides, pale in the middle with a median black stripe from vulva to spinnerets.
Legs long and slender, especially leg IV, anterior eye-row procurved, much narrower than second row, three pairs of spines under tibia?
and metatarsi I and II.
Vulva with two cavities in front, and a basal plate behind.
Near to L. dilatata of the "Biologia," but the vulva is very different.
Length 8 mm.
One from Turrialba, August, Costa Rica (Picado).
Lycosa brunnea Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 325, 1902.
Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Lycosa tristani n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown, a broad pale median stripe, slightly broadened a little behind the eye-region, then tapering to tip; abdomen brown on middle, with a broad median spot of yellowish hair, with a median dark spear-mark in front and some spots behind, venter with rather golden yellow hair, and a basal dusky streak, sides darker; sternum pale, but with a broad dark streak through the middle; legs yellowish, marked with brown, golden hair around eyes, and some in front of the brown mandibles.
Anterior eye-row procurved, and shorter than the second row; legs slender, especially the hind tarsi.
Male has the sternum and coxae black; legs mostly black, tarsi, metatarsi, and apical half of the tibia pale; venter as in the female; the tibia of the palpus is enlarged.
Length 8 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Lycosa biolleyi n. sp.
Cephalothorax brown, with three pale stripes, the lateral rather narrow, the median broad and not constricted, narrowed between dorsal eyes, and here it contains a median black line; mandible red-brown; legs yellowish, faintly maculate with brown and blackish, quite distinct on the hind femora.
Abdomen black above, paler beneath.
Cephalothorax rather long; anterior eye-row a little narrower than the second row; legs long and slender, metatarsi IV about as long as the cephalothorax; tibiae I and II with 2-2-2 spines.
Vulva very characteristic.
Length 10 mm.
From Tablazo, Costa Rica (Biolley).
Pardosa falcifera Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 318, 1901.
Tejar de Cartago; San Isidro; Sta.
Maria Dota; Turrialba, August (Picado) ; La Palma, very common in the grass.
Pardosa uncatula Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 319, 1902 Tablazo.
Pardosa prolifioa Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 317, 1902.
La Bolca, January (Picado); Cartago (B.
); San Jose; Tablazo.
OXYOPID^].
Peucetia viridans Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 195, 1845.
San Jose; Punta Arenas (B.
); Jesus Maria (B.
); Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.).
Oxyopeidon putum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., I, 140, 1S94.
Anonos, September.
ATTIDiE.
Phidippus chrysis Walckenaer.
Ins.
Apt., I, 454, 1837.
Pitahaya, August (Picado).
Phidippus marmoratus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 276, 1901.
La Verbena ; Tiribi ; San Jose, nests on leaves of trees ; Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Phidippus funebris Banks.
Proc.
Calif. Acad.
Sci.
(3), I, 2S0, 1898.
San Jose (B.
); Tablazo, September; Tiribi.
Phidippus disjunctus Banks.
Proc.
Calif. Acad.
Sci.
(3), I, 281, 1S9S.
La Bolca, June (Picado).
Phidippus incontesta n. sp.
Cephalothorax and mandibles dark red-brown; abdomen brown, with metallic scales, several black spots each side.
Leg I blackish, except on metatarsus and tarsus which are pale yellow; other legs yellowish-brown, darker at tips of joints; leg I with fringe of black hair beneath.
Sternum red-brown; venter paler reddish-brown; mandibles brown; rather porrect, with a large straight tooth near inner base.
Second row of eyes half-way to dorsal eyes.
Length 6 mm.
From Tablazo, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Phidippus luteus Peckham.
Occas.
Papers Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, III, 40, 1896.
San Jose, a young specimen.
Dendryphantes quadrinotatus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 271, 1901.
Aguas Calientes (Picado).
Dendryphantes digitatus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 269, 1901.
Chiral Paraiso.
Dendryphantes globosus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 265, 1901.
La Palma.
Dendryphantes bispinosus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 266, 1901.
Sta.
Maria Dota; Chiral Paraiso.
Dendryphantes lanceolatus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 266, 1901.
La Verbena, March.
Dendryphantes ootonotatus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 263, 1901.
Fortuna (B. and T.); Aguas Calientes (Picado); Hatillo (Picado); Turrialba.
Dendryphantes oomptus n. sp.
Cephalothorax red-brown, a broad white stripe on each side, margin red-brown; abdomen red-brown in middle, the sides of which are indented three times behind, upper sides white, lower sides with brown stripe; venter red-brown in middle, sides pale; sternum red-brown.
Leg I brown, pale on tarsus and base of metatarsus ; other legs yellow, femora with a brown streak each side, and brown bands at tips of patella, tibia, and metatarsus.
Length 3 mm.
From Aguas Calientes, Costa Rica (Picado).
Dendryphantes pallens Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 272, 1901.
La Palma.
Sidusa spiralis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 217, 1901.
La Verbena, March; Tablazo.
Sidusa tarsalis n. sp.
Cephalothorax dark red-brown, abdomen blackish, with an oblique white streak on each anterior side, and behind is a broad oblique white mark each side, not meeting in middle; venter blackish; sternum dark red-brown; legs with the femora and tarsi dark red-brown, the other joints pale reddish, especially pale on legs I and II; in legs III and IV the tibia and base and tip of metatarsi dark ; palpi pale reddishyellow except the dark brown basal joint; mandibles red-brown.
Length 8.5 mm.
Salinas de Albina (Pac), January (Biolley and Tristan).
Sidusa sulphurea Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 218, 1901.
Orosi, 2d July (Picado).
Sidusa oonspecta Peckham.
Occas.
Papers Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, III, 42, 1896.
Tiribi.
Sidusa femoralis n. sp.
Head black; behind are two large oval yellow spots, leaving a median black stripe.
Abdomen with a broad median black stripe from base to tip, tapering behind and there indented from the sides; the sides pale grayish, with some black streaks; venter pale, mottled with black; sternum red-brown.
Leg I mostly red-brown, tarsus yellowish; leg II more mottled, the patella yellowish above; legs III and IV with mostly dark femora, rest pale, tips of tibia and metatarsus black.
Length 3.5 mm.
From Poas Volcano, April (Tristan).
Sidusa nigropicta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 212, 1901.
Aguas Calientes (Picado).
Sidusa parvula Peckham.
Occas.
Papers Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, III, 44, 1896.
Aguas Calientes (Picado).
Sidusa albicincta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 215, 1901.
Turrialba.
Sidusa opima Peckham.
Proc.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, 1895, 71.
Orosi (Picado) ; Chiral Paraiso.
Sidusa fulvoguttata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 214, 1901.
San Jose; Tiribi.
Sidusa marmorea Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 211, 1901.
La Verbena.
Cyrene interrupta Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 239, 1901.
Tejar de Cartago; Anonos; Orosi (Picado).
Cyrene dolosa n. sp.
Cephalothorax red-brown, eyes on large black spots, a pale median stripe, and the side margins pale; the red-brown stripes are nearly black under the base of the abdomen.
Abdomen pale, four black spots each side, the middle area very pale, some small blackish streaks on the sides ; venter pale, spinnerets black, and the black continued as a stripe on venter to near the middle where it ends in a sharp point ; sternum pale ; legs pale, more reddish on tibiae and patellae ; mandibles reddish.
The spines on legs are as in C. flava, but none above on tibia III and IV; the vulva is nearer to C. pratensis.
Length 8 mm.
From Punta Arenas (Biolley) and Uricuajo (Pac), January, 200 m. (Biolley and Tristan).
Cyrene delecta Peckham.
Occas.
Pap.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, III, 68, 1896.
San Mateo (Pac).
Cyrene ntagnifioa n. sp.
Cephalothorax black, a broad marginal white stripe each side, and a white spot in the middle; abdomen black, a curved basal white band, and behind on each side are two large white spots ; and in the middle line are three white spots, the last over the spinnerets is the largest.
Venter with four narrow pale lines in the middle area, and a white spot each side near base; sternum and legs black, with black hair, the latter with some white hairs beneath, which form white bands on the middle of the tibiae and metatarsi III and IV; palpi pale yellowish, with white hair.
Length 15 mm.
From San Mateo, Costa Rica (Biolley).
It is the largest species of the genus known to me.
Cyrene fusca Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 23S, 1901.
San Jose.
Cyrene formosa n. sp.
Black, clothed with deep black hairs, a white median stripe extending out each side in front to the dorsal eyes, a narrow white band above anterior eye-row, and the clypeus broadly white, a marginal white stripe.
Abdomen black, with black hair, a median white stripe, crossed in front by a white band, and a broad basal white band, which extends back each side, the posterior sides white ; the sides white with many elongate black dashes; venter black in the middle; sternum pale brown; legs red-brown or black, with black hair, the tarsi and metatarsi are pale, hind femora below, and the basal half of tibia pale.
No fringes on legs ; patella and tibia of male palpus with white hair above.
Length 9-10 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Cyrene pratensis Peckham.
Proc.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, 1885, 70.
San Jose.
Cyrene bicuspidata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 238, 1901.
Pacaca.
Thiodina retarius Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., VI, 288, 1850.
Huacas.
Marpissa melanognatha Lucas.
Hist.
Nat.
Canaries, Arachn., 29, 1S39.
Punta Arenas (B.
); San Jose (B.
), (Picado).
Marpissa magna Peckham.
Occas.
Pap.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, II, 87, 1894.
Guanacaste (Lankester).
Marpissa minor Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 250, 1901.
Turrialba.
Phanias marginalis n. sp.
Cephalothorax dark red-brown, a transverse patch of white hair just behind dorsal eyes, the margins of cephalothorax broadly snowwhite.
Dorsum of abdomen pale brown, a darker brown basal spearmark, and some dark chevrons behind, also an indistinct lateral dark streak; sternum red-brown, venter pale brown.
Legs pale brown, femur I dark, other joints darkened at tips; patellae of palpus snowwhite.
Length 6 mm.
San Jose, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Plexippus paykulli Aud.
et Sav.
Descript.
Egypte (ed.
2), XXII, 172, 1827.
Huacas; La Verbena, March; Surubres (Pac.)
(B.
); Congrejal de Asseri (Pac), 800 m., April (B.).
Metacyrba taeniola Hentz.
Journ.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., V, 353, 1895.
Turrialba.
Messua desidiosa Peckham.
Occas.
Pap.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, III, 93, 1896.
San Joaquin Heredia Espinach.
Nagaina incunda Peckham.
Occas.
Pap.
Nat.
Hist.
Soc.
Wise, III, 54, 1896.
Orosi, 20th July (Picado).
Ashtabula nigrioans Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 257, 1901.
Anonos, September; La Bolca (Picado).
Zygoballus tibialis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 292, 1901.
San Jose.
Martella lineatipes Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 175, 1900.
La Verbena.
Sarinda pretiosa n. sp.
Cephalothorax and abdomen black, mandibles and palpi red-brown; cephalothorax with two pale yellowish transverse marks above, just behind cephalic part ; abdomen with two transverse white marks rather before middle, and on lower sides is another; venter with a pale band behind the vulva; coxae and legs pale, I and II striped with black, tarsi I black, femora III and IV black, patellae wholly pale, tibiae and metatarsi striped with dark.
Tibia I and II with 2-2-2 spines, metatarsi with 2-2 spines.
Length 3.5 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Lyssomanes spinifer Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 184, 1900.
Surubres (Pac.)
(B.
); Aguas Calientes (Picado); San Jose, July (Picado).
Lyssomanes convexa n. sp.
Pale yellowish green throughout, eyes on black spots, no other marks.
Tibia I with but outer lateral spine, which is toward the tip.
Vul va near L. elegans, but the apertures much closer together, and the basal part longer.
Length 8 mm.
One female from Navarro, Costa Rica (Maxon).
PHALANGIDA.
Cynorta albipunctata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 556, 1904.
San Jose, under stones (B.
); Tejar de Cartago, under trunks of trees (B. and T.); La Verbena; La Bolca, July (Picado); Tablazo; San Isidro; La Palma.
Cynorta biguttata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 557, 1904.
Sta.
Maria Dota; Tiribi; Cartago (B. and T.); Fortuna Cervantes; San Jose, under stones in dark places.
Cynorta marginalis n. sp.
Dorsum a beautiful, uniform, deep, dark brown, shining, narrowly margined each side by a reticulate greenish-yellow stripe; no V-mark, hind margin of the shield and of the three other segments narrowly greenish yellow.
Legs yellowish, more or less reticulate with brown, the tip of femur, and tibia, and whole of patella dark brown; mandibles pale, venter black.
Dorsum smooth, a pair of minute tubercles 15 in front, and behind a pair of rather large tubercles, but with rounded tips.
Legs long and slender.
Runs to C. conigera in the Biologia, but tarsus IV has 11 joints; differs however much in other ways.
Length, body 6 mm., femur II 12 mm.
Several specimens from Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Cynorta longipes Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 557, 1904.
San Isidro; Tablazo, September.
Cynorta lata n. sp.
Very dark red-brown, a yellow Y-mark enlarged at each anterior end, a transverse line behind, mandibles and legs not very pale, tarsi paler.
Dorsum minutely granulate, posterior tubercles low and blunt, posterior segments each with row of granules; body very broad, over coxse IV nearly as broad as long; basal joint of mandibles spinulose above; legs very rough, but the granules are blunt and none enlarged; trochanter III has a little process behind, a larger one on trochanter IV, a short, stout spine above at tip of coxa IV; tarsus I with 6 joints, II with 11, III with 7, and IV with 8 joints.
Venter dark brown; coxse granulate, coxse IV only toward tip.
Length 8 mm., femur IV 6 mm., femur II 7 mm.
Santa Domingo, San Mateo, Costa Rica, August (Tristan).
Cynorta conigera Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 559, 1904.
El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Cynorta pictipes n. sp.
Black, a narrow yellow V-mark, some lines at sides, and following this a faint scallop behind and passing behind the posterior tubercles ; many small yellow dots scattered over the abdomen; mandibles, palpi, and venter black; legs yellow, femora on apical half black, patellse wholly black, tibiae on apical half and most of the metatarsi black, several black spots on trochanters.
Dorsum smooth; posterior tubercles thick and heavy, acute, but not very high ; coxa IV at tip with one small tubercle; legs very short; tarsus I with 6 joints, II with 9, III with 7, IV with 8 joints.
Length, body 5.5 mm.
; femur II 5 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Cynorta longispina Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 558, 1904.
Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.).
Cynorta posticata n. sp.
Dorsum rich deep brown, a narrow white line each side, not reaching either end of body, each end of line turned up or down a short distance; sometimes the line is broken over coxae III.
Three posterior segments mostly white, the last with a large white triangle each side at base; legs and mandibles pale yellowish, heavily reticulate with black.
Venter red-brown, granulate.
Dorsum smooth, posterior tubercles rather large; legs long, tarsus I with 6 joints, II with 17, III with 9, and IV with 10 joints.
Hind legs of male with femur and tibia slightly curved, the metatarsi sinuate, and at base above with a series of over 20 teeth.
Length 6 to 7 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan); nine specimens, all agreeing in the peculiar coloration.
Cynorta bipunctata Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 556, 1904.
Fortuna; La Palma; Turrialba.
Cynorta pedalis n. sp.
Very dark red-brown; a yellow Y-mark as usual, the anterior ends of which terminate in large spots, each with several dark dots, a yellow oblong behind at region of tubercles, and a line from it to each side yellow.
Legs yellowish; the trochanters very bright yellow, the femora more or less distinctly banded with dark at base, before middle, beyond middle, and at tip; the tibia?
with indistinct bands at base, middle, and tip; the metatarsi with four bands as on the femora; hind tarsi pale yellow, others darker.
The dorsum is mostly smooth, the tubercles practically absent ; legs spinulose ; femur IV more strongly so, but hardly with teeth, no large tooth at tip of coxa IV.
Tarsus I with 6 joints (three enlarged), II with 11, III with 7, and IV with 8 joints.
Hind femur about as long as body.
Length 6 mm.
From San Isidro, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Cynorta tristani n. sp.
Dark red-brown, marked with yellowish; a Y-mark as usual, the sides and posterior margin narrowly yellow, many small dots above, some forming two transverse rows.
Legs pale, densely marked with black.
Dorsum smooth, two large posterior tubercles, and on posterior segments a few small granules; legs slightly roughened.
Venter mostly smooth, coxae I, II, and III, slightly granulate, and a row of teeth on their posterior borders.
Legs not very long; tarsus I with 6 joints, II with 14, III with 8, and IV with 9 joints.
Length 5 mm.
El Higuito, Jesus San Mateo (Pac.)
(Biolley and Tristan).
The posterior tubercles are much shorter than in C. longispina, to which it is otherwise much related.
Vonones lateralis n. sp.
Dorsum with a large brown spot in middle of sides, in front and behind reticulate greenish-yellow, many yellow spots here and there, and also scattered yellow granules, the posterior tubercles large, hardly acute and bearing small spinules, basal joint of mandibles spinulose above.
Legs yellow, more or less marked with fine black lines.
Posterior segments brown, with yellow dots, four larger dots on the last segment.
Venter rufous, granulate, a prominent quadrangular yellow spot on each hind coxa near the tip.
The coxse above end in three small teeth, the trochanters on inner side with two teeth at tip; hind femora with a series of teeth above and below near tip as in Erginus, no teeth longer than the width of the joint.
Length 6.5 mm.
Several from Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
CYNORTINA n. gen. Gonyleptidse, subfam.
Stygninse.
Spiracles distinct, hind coxse free at apex, much broader than a ventral segment; eye-tubercle broad, with two short blunt projections between eyes; legs short, tarsi I with 3 joints, II with 7, III with 6, IV with 6 joints; palpi not very long, joints cylindrical, and each with a few spiniform bristles.
Cynortina tarsalis n. sp.
Very dark brown, the tips of the coxse, trochanters, femora, and tibiae pale, also tips of femora and tibise of palpus pale.
Dorsum smooth, a few low granules in transverse rows on the dorsal shield, lateral margin of shield with a submarginal row of stronger granules, a few small ones on hind margin and on each of the posterior segments ; legs without granules, except under all femora, and patella and tibia IV; all legs with fine short hairs, coxa IV below has a small tooth lying close to venter, hardly discernible.
The palpus has four spines on outside of femur (two near base), and one on inner side near tip; patella one on inner side; tibia two on outer side, three on inner side; tarsus with two on each side; claw fully one-half as long as tarsus.
Length 4 mm.
La Palma, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Meterginus signatus n. sp.
Dorsum dark red-brown, a large yellowish patch each side over coxse II and III, and another behind, reticulate, over coxse IV, the two each side are indistinctly connected, no yellow V-mark, nor borders to segments.
Venter red-brown; legs yellow, reticulate with blackish.
Dorsum smooth; posterior tubercles small, rounded, wide apart; basal joint of mandibles granulate above, second joint in the male is greatly enlarged, swollen above and in front, in the female normal, femur of palpus with a row of ten teeth below, much smaller in the female ; legs long, rough ; hind pair longer, no teeth on femur IV of male, coxae IV ends in one tooth above, hind femur nearly two-thirds as long as body.
Tarsus I with 7 joints, first four enlarged, II with 15, III with 10, IV with 11 joints.
Length, c^ 8 mm., 9 6.5 mm., femur IV, d\ 15 mm.
From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Meterginus inermis n. sp.
Red-brown, mandibles paler, trochanters rather bright yellowish, rest of legs brownish, two large connected spots each side of the cephalothorax, the Y-mark indistinct, and a faint transverse line behind.
Dorsum smooth, no tubercles; eye-tubercle very broad, smooth; legs spinulose, hind femora with several rows of blunt teeth, largest below, with many scattered rather larger granules ; a series of granules under femur of palpus; second joint of mandibles large, but not much swollen above,' legs rather long, hind pairs plainly larger than others; femur IV nearly as long as body, tarsus I with 7 joints (4 enlarged), II with 14, III with 8, and IV with 8 joints.
Length of body 6 mm., of femur IV, 5 mm.
From Tablazo, Costa Rica, September (Tristan).
Erginus subserialis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 56-4, 1904.
Uricuajo (Pac), 250 m. (B. and T.), and El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.).
Erginus parvulus n. sp.
Dark red-brown, a few yellow dots each side, and a line across behind the tubercles; legs pale yellowish.
Dorsum mostly smooth, a few granules; eye-tubercle spinulose each side; basal joint of mandibles very much spinulose above, the second joint is greatly swollen above.
Posterior tubercles large, acute, and less than their length apart; posterior segments granulate along the edge.
Legs spinulose; coxae III with a little cusp behind, IV with a very large spine at tip, trochanter IV with a small one on inner side at tip ; femur IV about as long as body, much roughened, on inner side near the middle is a series of six teeth, none as long as width of joint, and on outer side near tip is a series of five teeth, none as long as width of joint; patella and tibia IV also much roughened.
Tarsus I with 6 joints (3 enlarged), III with 7, IV with 7 joints.
Length 4 mm.
From San Isidro, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Erginus sinuosus Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 563, 1905.
Tablazo, September.
Hernandria spinosa n. sp.
Pale reddish-brown, legs and palpi paler; eye-tubercle with two small spines above.
Dorsal shield with two pairs of small tubercles, and a larger apical pair; the second of the posterior segments with a larger, yellow, median spine ; longer than those on dorsal shield, small spines on the edges of these segments; dorsal shield with two deep transverse grooves.
Legs moderately slender, with rows of short spine-like granules, the patellae slightly enlarged; coxa?
I, II and IV granulate on upper sides, coxa IV with a large spine at tip above; tarsi III and IV very broad and flattened, and at tip an apical process over the claws; tarsus I with 5 joints, II with 11, III with 6, IV with 6 joints.
Palpi with spines, tibia?
with two long and one short (apical) on outer side, two long and two short on inner side, tarsus with two long and two short each side, claw as long as tarsus.
Length 5 mm., femur IV 4 mm.
From Santa Maria Dota, January (Tristan), Costa Rica.
Palpinus laevis Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 577, 1905.
La Palma.
Metapachylus rugosus n. sp.
Red-brown on body and legs, palpi, mandibles and trochanters pale yellow, in the male the legs are more yellowish.
Body very much roughened, a large spine on eye-tubercle curving forward, a small one at each anterior corner of the cephalothorax; dorsal shield with lateral row of granules, and about 8 transverse rows of spine-like granules on abdomen, and the last segment with two rows of granules, each granule is tipped by a hair; ventral segments also with rows of granules, hardly as large as those above; legs also roughened, except on the metatarsi and tarsi, many granules on coxa?, trochanters and femora are tipped by bristles; tarsus I with 3 joints, II with 7, III with 5, IV with 6 joints.
Femur of palpus with three spines beneath (two basal), tibia and tarsus with two each side.
In male the legs are very much longer, especially the hind pair, of which the femur, tibia, and metatarsus are each longer than the body, and metatarsus IV has above four granules of which one is apical.
Length 4.5 mm., tibia IV 6 mm.
From San Isidro, San Jose, Santa Maria Dota (Tristan), Uricuajo (Pac), 200 meters (Biolley and Tristan), Atenas, 2d June (Picado), and La Bolca (Picado); all Costa Rica.
Mitopus australis n. sp.
Pale brown, mottled with black, middle of eye-tubercles white.
Dorsum densely minutely granulate, two little elevations on the anterior margin, each with three or four little teeth; eye-tubercles spinulose, three first abdominal segments each with a submedian pair of sharp spines, next two with four spines, last with two; each segment with a few minute spinules, and on anterior border of abdomen a curved series of minute spinules; legs with rows of very prominent spinules, and at tips of femora and patellae are several larger spinules ; coxse minutely spinulose, each spinule bearing a black hair.
Femur, patella, and tibia all thick and heavy, metatarsi and tarsi very slender, femur I longer than width of body, II as long as body.
Length 4.5 mm.
From San Jose, Costa Rica (Tristan).
Phalangium ornatipes n. sp.
Body brown, paler below, dorsum darkest in front, a paler median stripe which expands to sides at middle of length; palpi pale, brown on base of femur, patella, and base of tibia; trochanters of legs pale yellowish, also extreme bases of femora, rest of femora brown, patella brown, with a pale streak above, tibia brown on base, paler beyond, metatarsi and tarsi pale.
Eye-tubercle smooth; a cluster of small spines each side on front margin; palpi very short.
Dorsum with eight transverse rows of six spine-like tubercles, the median pair of each row much larger than others, coxse slightly granulate, a small white spine at anterior tip of each coxa, except I where it is on the posterior tip.
Legs rather short.
Length 7 mm.
From La Fortuna Cervantes (Tristan), Costa Rica.
Liobunum biolleyi n. sp.
Anterior part of cephalothorax brown, tubercle and middle part black; abdomen black; coxse and venter pale brown, trochanters and rest of legs black, tips pale, a prominent yellow spot at tip of hind coxa ; two golden yellow spots each side near apex of abdomen above, and sometimes a yellowish spot each side in front of these; palpi brown on base, tarsus pale yellowish, mandibles pale.
The cephalothorax is pitted, and a narrow pitted band on base of the abdomen, then a large area, densely pitted, occupying most of dorsum, and the posterior segments each with a pitted band ; coxse and sternum granulate, venter less strongly so; eye-tubercle with a few minute spicules above in front; legs very long and slender.
Length 6 mm.
From Congrejal de Aserri (Pac), 800 meters, April (Biolley).
Liobunum coriaceum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 582, 1905.
Turrialba.
Liobunum tristani n. sp.
Dark brown, anterior part of the cephalothorax paler, a yellowish mark on each side of the abdomen behind, one or two dots on the posterior dorsal segments; palpi and mandibles wholly pale yellow; coxae and trochanters black, the suture white, and a white (or yellow) spot at apex of hind coxa; rest of legs brown, patellae rather darker; sternum and venter dark brown or black, each side at base of the abdomen is more yellowish.
The cephalothorax is pitted, a pitted band on basal part of abdomen, then a large square pitted area occupying most of dorsum, and the posterior segments each with pitted band ; coxae and sternum densely granulate; venter with a row of granules on each segment; legs only finely granulate, of moderate length, eyetubercle with a few spicules in front above.
In the male the body is broader and flat, of a rather uniform brown, densely pitted; eyetubercle with more prominent spicules; palpi rather long, tarsi slightly curved.
Length, 9 6 mm., cT 5 mm.
From Fortuna Cervantes (Biolley and Tristan), San Jose, and La Verbena, near San Jose, "on the stones near the river, thrive in dark places" (Tristan); all Costa Rica.
Liobunum annulipes n. sp.
Marmorate with brown and yellowish; eye-tubercle pale; a narrow brown line reaches to front margin, some pale median spots behind; coxae mostly brown, an irregular pale patch near base of each; sternum pale at base, dark on tip, venter pale, densely mottled with brown.
Palpi pale, except a brown band at base of tarsus.
Legs pale, with many brown bands, many of these brown bands contain a white mark; trochanters mostly brown.
Dorsum pitted as usual, eye-tubercle smooth, coxae granulate, venter slightly granulate; legs quite long, especially the second pair.
Length 7 mm.
From Tablazo, Costa Rica, "on the ferns" (Tristan).
Liobunum foveolatum Cambridge.
Biol.
C. Am.
Arachn.
Aran., II, 5S3, 1905.
Tablazo.
Liobunum frontale n. sp.
Dark brown, coxae and trochanters same color; legs paler at base, darker beyond, then pale toward tips; in front of eye-tubercle is a white spot extending to front margin; palpi brown, tarsus pale; mandibles pale; sternum yellowish.
Dorsum pitted as usual, coxae granulate, but sparsely so on hind pairs ; sternum and venter with few granules; eye-tubercle smooth; legs very long, finely granulate; palpi slender, tarsus very long and slightly curved.
Length 4 mm.
From Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January, Costa Rica (Biolley and Tristan).
Liobunum laterale n. sp.
Pale brown, coxae and trochanters a little darker, rest of legs paler, at tip of coxa IV is an indistinct pale spot; a black streak each side near middle of dorsum; venter pale yellowish on the extreme upper ends of the basal three segments ; palpi and mandibles pale.
The dorsum is densely pitted, with a narrow pitted band on base of abdomen, and on posterior segments; the coxae are densely granulate, the sternum and bands on ventral segments less strongly so; the eye-tubercle with very minute spicules above; the patellae of the palpi have a very distinct process from the inner tip; legs not very long.
The male is similar to the female, with longer legs, the abdomen flat and short, with the two dark streaks ; palpi with the process to patellae, the tarsus slender and curved.
Length, 9 5 mm., cJ 1 4 mm.
From Chiral Paraiso, July (Biolley and Tristan), Fortuna Cervantes, and Huacas (Pac.)
(Tristan); all Costa Rica, Liobunum intermedium n. sp.
Dark brown above, pale brown beneath, coxae and trochanters pale brown, legs pale at base, darker near middle, and pale toward tips; palpi mostly pale; mandibles pale yellowish; a golden yellow spot at tip of coxa IV, no golden spots behind (as in L. biollcyi).
Dorsum pitted as usual; eye-tubercle minutely spinulate; coxae granulate, sternum and venter less so; legs of female rather short, of male much longer; patella of palpus with an inner projection at tip in both sexes.
Length, 9 5 mm., c?
4 mm.
From Fortuna Cervantes (Tristan and Biolley), Pacaca, and Turricares, February (Tristan) ; all Costa Rica.
Liobunum coxalis n. sp.
Body reddish, coxae and trochanters deep black, legs pale, but base near trochanters is black, eye-tubercle black, palpi and mandibles pale yellowish.
Dorsum (cT) short and broad, densely pitted; eye-tubercle smooth; coxa granulate, venter and sternum slightly so, sternum very broad; palpi of moderate length, the patellae with a minute tooth at inner tip; legs not very long.
Length 2.5 mm.
From Tejar de Cartago, Costa Rica (Tristan).
234 SOLPUGIDA.
[April, Ammotreoha stolli Pocock.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), XVI, 97, 1895.
San Jose, 2d May (Picado).
Explanation of Plates V and VI.
Plate V — Fig.
1.
— Sidusa femorcdis.
Fig.
2.
— Phidippus incontesta.
Fig.
3.
— Selenops bifurcatus.
Fig.
4.
— Lycosa tristani.
Fig.
5.
— Chibiona tristani.
Fig.
6.
— Sidusa femoralis.
Fig.
7.
— Cyrene formosa.
Fig.
8.
— Metriopelma zebrata.
Fig.
9.
— Phanias marginalis.
Fig.
10.
— Sparassus crassus.
Fig.
11.
— Cyrene dolosa.
Fig.
12.
— Sparassus audax.
Fig.
14.
— Dendryphantes comptus.
Fig.
15.
— Tracheitis morosa.
Fig.
16.
— Metriopelma morosa.
Fig.
17.
— Sidusa tarsalis.
Fig.
18.
— Strotarchus minor.
Fig.
19.
— Chibiona tumivulva.
Fig.
20.
— Lycosa signiventris.
22 23 24 25 26.
27 28 29.
30. gg. g^ r ggg. g. g. 31 g. 32 Plate VI — Fig.
21.
— Sarinda pretiosa.
— Neriene bisignata.
— Neriene postica.
— Scytodes intricata.
— Epicadus granulatus.
— Theridium biolleyi.
— Cupiennius minimus.
— Pelayo insignis.
— Dipana micratula.
— Pseudometa bella.
— Neriene postica .
— Corinna modesta.
g. 33.
— Sosippus agalenoides.
g. 34.
— Tetragnatha confraterna.
g. 35.
— Lycosa biolleyi.
g. 36.
— Echemus tropicalis.
ig.
37.
— Teudis bicolor.
ig.
38.
— Cyrene magnifica.
ig.
39.
— Epeira microsoma.
ig.
40.
— Anypheena delicatula.
ig.
41.
— Lyssomanes convexus.
ig.
42.— Lycosa tristani.
ig.
43.
— Lycosa morosina.
44.
— Lithyphantes hermosa.
ig.
45.
— Epeira microsoma.
46.
— Tetragnatha tristani.
ig.
47.
— Corinna pictipes.
ig.
48.
— Teudis elegans.
ig.
49.
— Eidichurus frontalis.
Neriene postica.
Fig.
50.
P0LYCH.ET0US ANNELIDS FROM MONTEREY BAY AND SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA.
BY J. PERCY MOORE, PH.D.
In this paper are recorded the results of a study of the California Polychseta belonging to the Museum of Leland Stanford Junior University, which were submitted to me at various times by Profs.
Harold Heath and W. K. Fisher of that institution.
Descriptions of a few new species from San Diego have been published already in these Proceedings for 1904, pp.
484-503.
The localities at which the collections were made are limited to two, namely : the vicinity of Monterey Bay, at about the middle of the California coast, where Mr. M. H. Spaulding collected in 1903 and 1904, chiefly at Pacific Grove, and San Diego, chiefly on a sand-bar in the bay, near the southern boundary of California, where Prof. E. C. Starks collected during 1902 and 1903.
At both places the collecting was nearly limited to the littoral zone between tide limits, though a few dredgings were also made.
A few specimens collected at Pacific Grove by Prof. Heath and presented to this Academy some years ago are also mentioned.
In all cases where nothing different is stated it will be understood that the specimens were taken between tides and by one of the two gentlemen who made the bulk of the collections.
Also, unless otherwise stated, the types of new species are in the Museum of Stanford University.
A set of cotypes and duplicates has been added to the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The total number of species mentioned is 64, of which 21 are considered to have been previously undescribed.
While this must represent a small part only of the Polychsete fauna of that region the records are important because the}' are in nearly all cases material extensions of the known ranges of the species.
Scarcely anything has hitherto been published concerning the Polychseta of the coast of the southern half of California or of the Pacific coast of Mexico and a rich field for faunal investigation remains.
When these collections were placed in my hands for study it was hoped that Prof. H. P. Johnson's projected paper on the Polychseta of California would be available for their determination, but this much-desired publication has been unavoidably delayed.
SYLLID^3.
Syllis elongata Johnson.
Pionosyllis elongata (Johnson), Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, pp.
403-405; PI.
6, figs.
67-70; PL 7, fig.
71.
Dredged at Delmonte wharf, vicinity of Monterey Bay, July 12, 1904.
A fine specimen 40 mm.
long, with 193 segments, the last 28 or 29 of which are much distended with sperm and elongated to three times the length of the preceding 29 segments.
The notocirri are more tapered and acute than represented in Johnson's figure.
This species is very slender and in general aspect closely resembles Syllis gracilis Grube.
At least the dorsalmost seta of many of the middle segments has the appendage coalesced with the stem to form bifurcate setae as in that species.
Probably it should be placed in VerriU's subgenus Synsyllis.
It certainly departs widely from the type of Pionosyllis in the form of its setae and its strongly moniliform tentacles and cirri.
The posterior region is so much enlarged that it seems probable that it separates at maturity.
Tr ypanosyllis intermedia sp.
nov. (Plate VII, figs.
1 and 2).
An imperfectly known species resembling T. gemmi'para Johnson in general aspect, but readily distinguished from that species by the much longer appendages of its setae.
Length of the anterior 80 segments of an incomplete specimen, 18 mm.
; maximum width between tips of parapodia, 2 mm.
Prostomium quadrate, silghtly wider than long, with a median dorsal furrow.
Eyes small, red, dorso-lateral ; the anterior slightly farther apart and less than one-eighth the width of the prostomium ; the posterior pair about one-twelfth the width of the prostomium and separated from the anterior by an equal distance.
Palpi about as long as prostomium, projecting forward and widely divergent.
Tentacles all missing.
Anterior end of body broad and strongly depressed, becoming gradually less so posteriorly.
Segments all extremely short and crowded, especially anteriorly, where they are slightly biannulate.
Pygidium unknown.
Parapodia uniramous, short, stout and slightly notched distally.
Neurocirri short, cylindrical, rounded distally, and arising from middle of ventral face of neuropodia, the end of which they scarcely reach.
Notocirri arising from prominent cirrophores immediately above the base of the neuropodia; styles very readily detached and only a few remaining so that their relative length is unknown, those remaining rather stout, swollen beyond base and thence tapered to the blunt end, the longer ones about equal to total width of worm and with about 20 short articles, the shorter two-thirds as long with about 15 articles.
Acicula three, tapered, with the ends blunt, slightly flattened and just perceptibly enlarged.
Setae few (about 9-11), all subacicular, colorless, with rather strongly curved steins acutely beveled at the end, smooth, with a slight shoulder for attachment of the appendage (Plate VII, figs.
1 and 2); length of appendages varying from one and one-third times (on posterior parapodia) to more than twice (on anterior parapodia) the distal thickness of the stems, their distal ends hooked and conspicuously bifid, the teeth being much more widely separated on posterior setse, on which also the marginal fringe is much less developed.
The single incomplete specimen was taken at "point above Third Beach," vicinity of Monterey Bay, July 12, 1904.
PHYLLODOCID^E.
Phyllodooe medipapillata sp.
nov. (Plate VII, figs.
3 and 4).
The two examples upon which this species is based differ greatly in appearance and degree of contraction, one being robust, the other very slender.
Length of type 100 mm., maximum width of body 1.8 mm., total width including parapodia 3.5 mm.
; number of segments 201.
Length of cotype 170 mm., width of body 3.5, total width including parapodia 8 mm.
; number of segments 240.
Prostomium rather thick, depressed, broad, slightly cordate behind; about as wide as long, the greatest breadth at the eyes about onethird of the length from the posterior end, the sides very strongly convex at this point; anterior border broadly rounded, projecting slightly beyond tentacles.
Eyes circular, their diameter about oneeighth to one-tenth width of prostomium, at the widest part of which they are situated, separated by about one-half its width.
The tentacles, which arise from a shallow annular depression, short conical, diverging equally in both directions, about as long as one-third width of prostomium.
Nuchal organs everted as prominent knobs between sides of prostomium and peristomium just below e}^es.
A minute nuchal tubercle, about one-third diameter of nuchal organs, occupies the posterior emargination of the prostomium.
Peristomium and somite II coalesced, achaetous, nearly concealed above by the prostomial lobes, between which the nuchal tubercle projects; below forming a smooth, somewhat swollen lip.
Except in the character of its parapodia III is similar to succeeding segments.
Tentacular cirri all short, with distinct cirrophores and rather stout styles tapering to delicate tips.
On the type they reach to the following segments; that of I to VII, dorsal of II and III both to IX, ventral of II to VI or VII.
On the cotype, which has the anterior segments much contracted, each reaches about three segments farther caudad.
The body of the type is slender, slightly depressed, flattened ventrally, widest in anterior fourth, and tapers regularly caudad; the length of the segments varies from one-fifth the width anteriorly to two-thirds width posteriorly.
As noted above the cotype is much contracted and consequently much stouter.
Fygidium unknown.
Parapodia (Plate VII, fig.
3) uniramous, prominent, strictly lateral, posteriorly equaling width of somites.
That of I a tentacular cirrus (neurocirrus) only; of II dorsal and ventral tentacular cirri (notocirrus and neurocirrus); III the first setigerous.
Typical parapodia consist of somewhat flattened neuropodia supported by a single, stout, tapered aciculum and divided at the distal end into a low, entire post-setal lip and a slightly more prominent presetal lip divided by a notch into supra-acicular and subacicular lobes, to the dorsal border of the latter of which the slightly curved end of the aciculum is adherent.
Foliaceous notocirri begin on IV and foliaceous neurocirri on III; both are prominent and the former strongly imbricated on the dorsum of the parapodia, Notocirrophores prominent, erect, well separated from the neuropodia, more than half as long as the latter and equally broad.
Styles not strongly asymmetrical, with basal auricles only slightly developed, those of anterior segments nearly regularly ovoidal, with bluntly rounded ends and about two-thirds as wide as long.
Farther back they increase in size and become more slender (twice as long as wide) and more acutely tipped, without any trace of the truncate end seen in so many species, though the tips of some are slightly recurved.
On middle somites they approach nearer to the ovate-lanceolate form usual in Eulalia rather than the form usually characterizing PhyUodoce.
In the posterior third they again become shorter and broader — much like poplar leaves — with rather abruptly acuminate tips.
Rather firmly attached, of thin, membranous texture and with a striated border of colored glands.
Neurocirri attached by low, broad eirrophores to the bases of the neuropodia.
Styles all very large and foliaceous and projecting one-third or more of their length beyond the neuropodia.
On the first few segments they are very broad and subelliptical, but soon become more acute and asymmetrical and gradually much more elongated and slender.
Setse (Plate VII, fig.
4) all colorless, in fan-shaped supraand subacicular fascicles of (in the type) from eight (on IX) to twenty-six (on XXV), decreasing to eleven or twelve at CL, the cotype bearing about one-third as many more.
Stems slightly curved and slightly enlarged distally to form an oblique socket, each side of which bears a small brush of hairs, none of which is enlarged.
Appendages very long, slender, tapering, slightly curved, with a border of minute serrations; their length is from more than one-half to nearly the depth of the neuropodia and they vary little in the different regions.
Proboscis of type fully extended, clavate, 7 mm.
long, 1.8 mm.
in distal and 1.2 mm.
in basal diameter.
Orifice surrounded by nineteen rather prominent, compressed ovoid papilla?.
Greater part of surface smooth, with six very obscure longitudinal ridges becoming gradually more roughened toward the base.
Papillse confined to basal one-sixth or less, arranged in six longitudinal rows on each side separated by dorsal and ventral intervals, of which the former is the greater and about equals the width of the papillated areas.
The papillae are slightly flattened and the posterior face is brown.
Each row contains from nine or ten (ventral) to twelve (dorsal), the increased number resulting from a few papillse placed irregularly at the anterior end of the more dorsal rows.
In addition to the paired series, about four or five very small papillae form an irregular dorso-median row.
Except for the greater contraction the proboscis of the cotype is exactly similar.
Color of type confined to a brownish tinge on the dorsum and notocirri; cotype uniform purplish-brown.
Type locality, vicinity of Monterey Bay, M. H. Spaulding.
The •cotype was taken at San Diego by E. C. Stark.
Phyllodoce (Carobia) castanea Marenzeller.
Carobia castanea v. Marenzeller, Denkschr.
K. Acad.
Wissensch., Wien, XLI (1879), Math-naturw.
CL, 2d Abth., pp.
127, 128, Tab.
Ill, fig.
2.
A much contracted specimen which agrees very closely with v. Marenzeller's description was dredged by Mr. Spaulding on July 12, 1903, at Delmonte wharf, near Monterey Bay.
Length 21 mm.
; segments 160.
Prostomium regularly subovate, about as broad as long, truncate posteriorly with a very slight median emargination; no anterior constriction or furrow.
Eyes very large, dorso-lateral, about onefourth diameter of prostomium and about an equal distance apart.
Tentacles lateral and ventrolateral, near anterior end of prostomium, directed almost laterad and very little forward, acutely subulate, thickened toward base, the dorsal pair as long as prostomium, the ventral two-thirds as long.
Tentacular cirri very much crowded, slightly flattened, very short, the longest (dorsal of II) about four times length of prostomium and reaching VII, the shortest (ventral of II) about twice prostomium, the remaining two subequal and about two and one-half times prostomium.
Peristomium and II coalesced and scarcely visible from above.
There may be a minute nuchal tubercle, but this is uncertain.
Pygidium a minute ring bearing a pair of short, subulate cirri.
Notocirrophores low and broad, styles rather thick and easily detached, in this specimen carried nearly erect over the parapodia; broadly foliaceous, nearly uniform in size and shape throughout, triangular ovate, about three-fifths as wide as long with rounded apex and oblique but not auriculate base, the markings arranged bipinnately from a central axis.
Neurocirri foliaceous, subquadrate elliptical, all free surfaces evenly rounded, very broadly attached to venter of neuropodium and carried posterior to the latter, scarcely reaching beyond end of neuropodium.
Aciculum single, stout, tapered, straight.
Seta?
in spreading, vertical series, colorless, transparent, rather stout, with curved stems rather abruptly enlarged distally, the margins of the socket bearing a single series of rather long hairs.
Appendages short, their length not exceeding one-third depth of parapodia, very delicate, broad at base but rapidly tapering to a tenuous tip; marginal serrations scarcely visible.
Six supraand ten subacicular setse on middle parapodia.
Color pale reddish-brown, brightest on notocirri and anterior dorsum of body.
Female with immature eggs.
POLYNOID^].
Halosydna pulchra (Johnson).
Polynoe pulchra Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
(3), Zoology, I (1897), pp.
177-179, PI.
VII, figs.
34, 43a; PI.
VIII, figs.
50-506.
Three specimens occur in the collection, two certainly from the Monterey Bay region, the other unlabeled but probably from the same place.
Of the first two one was commensal on the holothurian Stichopus, the other on Cryptochiton.
The latter is a fine specimen with milk-white elytra marked with a small, round, clear-cut black spot over the area of attachment.
Halosydna brevisetosa Kinberg.
Halosydna brevisetosa Kinberg, ' Of ver.
K. Vetensk.
Akad.
Forh., XII (1855), p. 385.
Two small specimens were taken at San Diego, others in the vicinity > of Monterey Bay, at "big tide pool, Lighthouse Point," on June 28, 1904, and at " point above Third Beach," on July 12, 1904.
All of the specimens are dark colored, with heavily mottled elytra.
Halosydna reticulata (Johnson).
Polynoe reticulata Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
(3), Zoology, I, pp.
170, 171; PI.
VII, figs.
32-41a, PI.
VII, figs.
47-476.
Eleven specimens from San Diego occur in the collection and only two from Monterey Bay, where they were dredged on July 9, 1904.
These specimens exhibit considerable variation.
Some are almost pigmentless and of a nearly uniform pale yellow, gray or brown; others are thickly mottled with deep brown on the elytra and barred on both dorsal and ventral surfaces of the body.
Usually a brown spot or ring is present on the elytra over the point of attachment.
The elytra differ greatly in the degree to which the surface is roughened with conical projections and in the number of marginal cilia.
The latter appear to be gradually lost with increased age and size.
They are plentiful on the elytra of small specimens and on newly regenerated elytra, fewer on those of medium size and frequently totally absent from larger specimens, as is the case with the two from Monterey Bay.
As a result of loss and regeneration the elytra of some specimens are of very unequal size.
The labels give no information concerning commensalism.
Lepidonotus caeloris Moore.
Lepidonotus caloris Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1903, pp.
412-414, PI.
XXIII, fig.
12.
A solitary specimen of small size was dredged at Delmonte wharf, Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904.
Lepidasthenia gigas (Johnson).
Polynoe gigas Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
(3), Zoology, I, pp.
172-175; PL VII, figs.
33, 426; PI.
VIII, figs.
48, 49.
Three examples from San Diego.
One has the parapodia much entangled with Terebellid tentacles and probably came from the tube of the Am.phitrite with which Johnson states that it lives commensally.
Notopodial setse are more usually present in the anterior parapodia, and the first parapodium bears a single seta of a form intermediate between the typical notopodial and neuropodial types.
One specimen 89 mm.
long and having 83 somites has the elytra arranged in symmetrical pairs, except on somite LXV, which bears the right one only, the left side bearing a notocirrus; there are 39 pairs on the segments numbered 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 17, 19, 21, 25, 27, 28, 30, 16 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45, 47, 48, 52, 54, 55, 56, 58, 60, 61, 62, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72.
SIGALEONID^J.
Sthenelais fusca Johnson.
Sthenelais fusca Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
(3), Zoology, I, pp.
185-1S6; PI.
IX, figs.
60-616, PI.
X, figs.
64, 64 ?
.
Two examples from San Diego and one from Chinatown Point, August 12, 1904.
One specimen is 110 mm.
long with 172 pairs of elytra; the other is about the same size, but the number of elytra was not counted.
The first mentioned has a caudal regenerating region of about a dozen segments, so that it is probable that the species reached a considerably larger size than the original description indicated.
The first pair of elytra is pale and without markings, the others are of a darker brown, thickly and finely mottled with a reticular pattern of black.
The pygidium, which was not described by Johnson, bears a pair of subanal cirri about as long as the last six or seven segments and of slender, tapered form.
The distal papilla?
of both rami of the parapodia are frequentty more numerous than indicated in Johnson's figure.
Peisidice aspera Johnson.
Peisidice aspera Johnson, Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci.
(3), (Zool.
), Vol.
I, pp.
1S4, 185; PI.
IX, figs.
56-59; PI.
X, figs.
Q3a-d. A single specimen with twenty-one pairs of elytra, dredged at Delmonte wharf, vicinity of Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904, represents this species in the collection.
AMPHINOMID^E.
Eurythoe californica Johnson.
Eurythoe californica Johnson, Proc.
Calif. Acad.
Sci.
(3), Zoology, I, pp.
1S4, 185; PI.
IX, figs.
56-59, PI.
X, figs.
63-63c/.
This species is represented in the collection by about a dozen specimens from San Diego and a single one from Monterey Bay, collected on July 12, 1904, from the "point above Third Beach."
Johnson gives no account of the proboscis, and as one of the specimens has it protruded the following brief description is added.
It is about 3 mm.
long and 1.8 mm.
in diameter, subcylindrical, but slightly compressed and slightly wider distally than at the base.
It terminates in a firm elliptical disk, with a vertical slit open ventrally and a central depression in which the mouth lies; surrounding this disk is a low annular fold.
The cuticle is everywhere smooth, without papillse, jaws or teeth of any kind.
HESIONIDiB.
Podarke pugettensis Johnson.
Podarke pugette7isis Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
397, 398; PI.
3, figs.
23-25.
About fifty specimens collected at San Diego are stated to have been "parasitic on starfish."
The occurrence of this species on a starfish (Luidia) in the vicinity of Port Townsend has been already reported in these Proceedings for 1908 and it seems probable that this habit is general.
The reference by Harrington and Griffin in their paper on Puget Sound Invertebrates to "the curious Ophiodromvs, an annelid that lives between the arms of the starfish [Asterias] and is colored so as to resemble the surface of the latter," probably relates to this species.
The appendages of some of the dorsalmost setae of the subacicular fascicle and the ventralmost of the supra-acicular fascicle are much longer and more slender than the others.
NEPHTHYDIDJE.
Nephthys caeca ( Fabricius) Oersted.
Nereis coeca, Fabricius, Fauna Groenlandica, 17S0, p. 304.
This species is represented by six large specimens from the vicinity of Monterey Bay and by about twenty from San Diego, where it appears to be common and was taken from the littoral zone and down to a depth of fifty feet.
The San Diego examples are of small to medium size and colorless or slightly marked with brown figures and bands on the prostomium and a feAv anterior segments.
The setae of some specimens are long, of others short and one of the latter is filled with nearly mature ova.
Those from Monterey Bay are much larger, measuring about ISO mm.
in length and one counted having 152 segments.
Three of them are very smooth and colorless, except that there is a brown or black "spread-eagle" figure on the prostomium and crossbars on a few anterior segments.
The others have the body of a deep purplish brown both dorsally and ventrally, the parapodia colorless.
The free margins of the prostomium are thin and produced.
The serrated setae form long flowing tufts, dusky at the base, as long as the parapodia or nearly equal to the body width.
The annulated setae are short and small, except on anterior parapodia.
Several specimens have the single caudal cirrus intact.
The extended proboscis is rather slender clavate with ten bifid orifical papillae above and ten below and twenty-two longitudinal rows of conical papillae of usually five each, the unpaired dorsal and ventral papillae being no larger than the others.
No characters distinguishing these specimens from examples of the species from the Atlantic Ocean are obvious.
NEREIDS.
Nereis procera Ehlers.
Nereis procera Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, pp.
557-559; Taf.
XXIII, fig2.
Ten specimens were taken in the vicinity of Monterey Bay, two bearing each of the following labels: Point about Third Beach; Big tide pool, Lighthouse Point, June 20, 1905, and June 28.
1904; dredged July 9, 1904, and dredged Delmonte wharf, July 12, 1904.
Of the three from San Diego one is 3 mm.
in diameter and filled with large eggs.
The parapodia and other parts exhibit no epitokous modification.
Nereis (Alitta) vexillosa Grube.
Nereis vexillosa Grube, in Middendorff, Reise in Siberiens, etc., II, 1851, p. 4; Taf.
II, figs.
1, 5, 6.
Taken at San Diego only; 14 small atokes and one small female epitoke.
The largest of the atokes is 50 mm.
long, and all of them have the not'ocirral laminae much less developed than on larger specimens.
One exserted proboscis has paragnaths arranged as follows: I, three in a longitudinal series; II, tapering arcuate groups of three rows of small cones ; III, transverse band in three rows ; IV, wider curved band, broader behind; V, absent; VI, four large cones in lozenge-shaped figure; VII and VIII, broad transverse band encircling ventral and lateral portion of basal ring, a tract of very small paragnaths in front of ventral part.
The epitoke is filled with large eggs.
The parapodia agree with Johnson's figure, but the setae are arranged somewhat differently.
Those of the dorsal rami are all of the "fish-bone" type, the stout compound setae belonging to the dorsal supra-acicular fascicle of the neuropodium.
The paragnaths exhibit several peculiarities; their number is generally reduced, those of VI are coalesced into a single large one on each side ; V is present as a single cone.
Nereis (Alitta) virens plenidentata subsp.
nov.
Under this name I am recording provisionally a species of Alitta that appears to be quite common on the sand-bars in San Diego Bay.
The northern Pacific species, which is found from Ochotsk Sea and Alaska south nearly to San Francisco, seems to differ from Atlantic examples of A. virens in several respects, and particularly in having more numerous paragnaths and a greater number of segments.
Probably it must be considered to be at least a subspecies under the name of brandti Malmgren.
These specimens from southern California exhibit more extreme divergence in the same direction.
Like both of the forms mentioned the paragnaths are reduced in number with age and increased size, but compared with specimens of the same size they are very much more numerous.
For example a specimen 150 mm.
long and 8 mm.
wide between the tips of the parapodia and having 218 segments 1 has the hard, black, strictly conical paragnaths arranged as follows: I, 3 in tandem; II, small groups of 7-9 in two oblique rows; III, broad dense, transverse band of small cones chiefly arranged in longitudinal or somewhat oblique lines of six or seven each, with numerous shorter lines and small groups uniting them anteriorly; IV, dense, somewhat arched, dumbbell-shaped groups of small cones, from three to five across and tending to coalesce at their posterior ends with the lateral borders of III; V, a diffuse subcircular area spreading laterally to the level of VI and with a median row of four large paragnaths reaching anteriorly beyond the others ; VI, a compact group of four or five large cones forming a lozenge-shaped figure; VI and VII coalesced and forming a broad zone encircling the basal ring of the proboscis below the level of VI and nearly joining V above, the numerous cones (from six to ten in the width of the band) increasing in size and becoming more distant anteriorly and dorsally.
The tentacles are also longer and most of the specimens are noteworthy for the deep brown pigment deposited in the lamellar notocirrophores.
The relations of this form to N. virens and brandti will be discussed fully at another time, when I hope to have for comparison specimens from other parts of the California coast.
N. foliata Baird evidently applies to the northern form ; N. chilensis Ehlers (=Thoosa Gayi Kinberg) is not at present recognizable, and there appears to be no name for this southern form.
Nereis (Platynereis) agassizi Ehlers.
Nereis agassizi Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 186S, pp.
542-546; Taf.
XXIII, fig.
1.
A few small specimens were taken at San Diego and two at Monterey Bay, one of the latter dredged and one between tides at the "point above Third Beach.
J!
1 A specimen of N. virens from New Jersey of the same size has 130 segments.
The San Diego specimens are noteworthy for the very conspicuous notopodial spots and in one case for the equally conspicuous spots on the pygidium.
The example dredged at Monterey is filled with small eggs and has the eyes enlarged, but is not otherwise modified.
EUNICID^E.
Eunice (Eriphyle) paloloides sp.
nov. (Plate VII, figs.
5-7).
The type of this species is a nearly complete worm closely related to the celebrated "palolo" (Eunice viridis) which it resembles in form.
It consists of a thicker anterior non-sexual region of about 200 segments and a slender posterior sexual region of more than 550 segments.
Owing to the softening of a portion of the worm the exact point of transition cannot be determined and accurate measurements cannot be given.
The size and proportions, however, closely approximate those of E. viridis.
Prostomium (somewhat distorted by protrusion of the jaws) about twice as wide as long, broadening anteriorly where it is divided into two s*hort, wide, broadly rounded lobes by a shallow emargination which continues caudad as a dorso-median furrow; a transverse furrow passes across the posterior ventral part of each of these frontal lobes.
Five tentacles arranged in a nearly straight transverse line, the middle one being slightly behind the others and in contact with the nuchal fold.
Middle one slightly the longest (H times length of prostomium), the lateral shortest and separated from the second pair by a wider space than separates the latter from the median.
All regularly tapered and transversely wrinkled, but not beaded or articulated.
Eyes conspicuous, with large lenses, situated between the outer and inner paired tentacles close to base of latter.
On one side a rather conspicuous pigment spot lies just anterior and external to the lateral tentacle.
Peristomium a slightly swollen naked ring considerably longer than the prostomium and forming a distinct nuchal fold dorsally, but little swollen laterally.
Somite II is a short, simple, apodous ring bearing, close to the anterior border, and on a level with the lateral tentacles, a pair of short conical nuchal cirri slightly longer than the segment.
Segments of anterior region very short, flattened and concave below, at first strongly arched above but gradually becoming flatter and more depressed.
Owing to the poor preservation of the segments following CC it is not possible to determine at just what point the epitokous sexual region separates, but a marked softening of the tissues and the enlarged size of the neural eye-spots (phototactic organs) on subsequent segments indicates that it probably occurs at CCX, though eye-spots of smaller size appear abruptly at CLII.
The epitokous region is very slender, subterete or slightly depressed, with a well-defined neural groove and distinct furrows separating segments generally about three times as wide as long.
Surrounding each segment in the parapodial zone is a raised glandular band, sometimes single but oftener formed of two lines.
Posteriorly the body tapers and is composed of numerous very small segments — evidently a rapidly proliferating region.
The ventral eye-spots form a neural series of usually two spots to each segment: one on the glandular girdle, the other at the intersegmental furrow, sometimes one, sometimes the other being larger and frequently one or both subdivided.
Pygidium tubular and somewhat elongated, obliquely truncated with the small anus facing dorsad; posterior to anus two pairs of conical caudal cirri, of which the dorsal pair is about as long as the diameter of the pygidium and nearly three times the ventral.
Parapodia uniramal.
Typical parapodia of the anterior region consist of a short, broad, truncate neuropodium, bearing a low postsetal fold behind the compound setae and a small presetal lobe in front of the simple setae.
The simple notocirrus springs without a cirrophore from above the neuropodium and is a bent, slightly tapered blunt process reaching a short distance beyond the distal end of the foot.
Neurocirrus consists of a low glandular elliptical cirrophore adnate to the side of the segment ventral to the parapodium and bearing a small, blunt, cylindroid or conical style.
Farther back all parts and particularly the cirri are gradually reduced in size.
The first parapodium (on III) has the setigerous lobe rudimentary, bearing only two or three setse, and consists chiefly of a simple notocirrus and neurocirrus nearly in contact, the former shorter and stouter, the latter about twice as long, more slender, obscurely articulated and more or less bent into a bow.
Several succeeding parapodia are transitional to the typical form, springing from a gradually rising level, the neuropodium gradually increasing in size and the cirri becomingsmaller.
In the epitokous region the entire foot is much smaller, the neuropodium a conical process whose outlines pass into the dorsal and ventral curvatures of the segments, the notocirrus a minute conical process above the foot and at the base of the gill, and a similarly formed neurocirrus arising from a thick glandular ventral area or cirrophore.
Gills appear as a pair of minute papillae on the medial side of the base of the notocirri of CVII and increase in length gradually until they become slender tapering filaments having a length of one-half to one-third the body width, the longest ones in the neighborhood of somite CC reaching easily beyond the middle line; in the posterior region they continue nearly to the pygidium and as far as the last one hundred segments reach to the median line.
Acicula anteriorly are three or four, stout, tapered, chiefly very dark brown, the dark tips exposed, blunt, somewhat oblique but not knobbed.
Posteriorly there are but two and finally one, and except that they become more slender there is no change in form.
Setse are of two forms: simple supra-acicular and compound subacicular.
No pectinate setse are visible in any of the preparations.
Simple seta?
have long, slender shafts, dark colored toward the base, but pale distally; they project prominently, the ends being slightly doubly curved and gently tapered to very slender acute tips with a faint marginal fringe but no distinct limbus.
Somite III bears only three or four simple setse, the number increasing to about twenty on X.
Behind C the number again diminishes, but the setse become first longer, then very few and of small size on the caudal segments.
Compound setse (PL VII, fig.
5) are enlarged toward the distal ends of the shaft which bears a few small marginal teeth, the appendage broad, bidentate and slightly hooked distally and provided with a fringed guard, its length one and one-half times width of enlarged end of shaft and remarkably uniform on all parapodia.
They are absent from III and numerous by X, on which they form rows extending anterior to and below the acicula.
Farther back they undergo changes similar to those affecting the simple setae.
Mandibles (PI.
VII, fig.
6) large, very hard, the horny carriers yellowish with dark lines, very thick and firm, with an angular ridge running the entire length.
Jaw plates very large, white, calcareous, of stony hardness, each plate bent nearly into a semicircle at the free margin which is faintly denticulated, the dorso-lateral angle freely projecting.
Maxillse (PI.
VII, fig.
7) deep brown, hard.
Carriers of forceps jaws broad with lateral emarginations and the two halves closely united except at the caudal end; forceps with broad bases marked by three longitudinal ridges, no masticatory teeth and short, strongly hooked ends.
Second pair (II) massive with four stout teeth on the left and three and a rudimentary fourth on the right side.
Three accessory jaws (III, IV, V) each with a single tooth on the left side arranged in a semicircle and two, one with two teeth, the other with a single tooth, on the right side.
Color of anterior end deep, iridescent purple, posterior reproductive region of male pale brown, of female greenish drab with white rings.
Ventral phototactic organs brown.
Collected by Prof. E. C. Starks at San Diego, Cal.
Besides the nearly complete type there is a fragment of the reproductive region of a male and one of a female, both fully mature and probably nearly ready to separate and swarm.
The occurrence of a Eunice with the habits of a "palolo" worm on the California coast is of much interest, and it is to be hoped that some zoologist on the ground will determine its life-history and especially the habits of swarming and if possible the conditions affecting it.
While the species is closely related to Eunice viridis and E. siciliensis it is readily enough distinguished from both.
Eunice biannulata Moore.
Eunice biannulata Moofe, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
487-490; PI.
XXXVII, figs.
10-18; Plate XXXVIII, fig.
42.
San Diego, type and cotype only.
Marphysa stylobranchiata sp.
nov. (Plate VII, figs.
8-12).
Form moderately stout.
Length about 100 mm., the longest 110 mm.
long and 4.5 mm.
in maximum width at about XXX.
Number of segments 142-160.
Prostomium about one-half as wide as long, divided anteriorly into two broadly rounded prominent entire lobes which exhibit no ventral furrow or swelling.
Tentacles five, smooth, short, thick, sausage-shaped, arranged in a slightly curved row near the posterior end of the prostomium; middle one longest, nearly equal to length of prostomium, the outer pair shortest, about two-thirds length of middle tentacle.
Eyes small, behind interval between outer and middle tentacles, or absent.
Peristomium about three times as long as first setigerous segment, perfectly naked, divided into two rings probably representing segments, the posterior slightly more than one-half anterior, from which it is separated by a continuous faint groove.
Laterally the anterior ring projects somewhat forward and is united with the sides of the prostomium, thus concealing a small internal or mandibular lobe.
Remaining segments well defined by deep furrows, all short, strictly uniannular, generally one-sixth to one-eighth as long as wide.
To about somite VIII the body is quite terete, but soon becomes wider than deep, the ratio in the middle region being about as five to three.
Posteriorly the body tapers, first gently, then rapidly, to the pygidium, which is short, annular, radially furrowed or rosetted and bears a pair of rather stout, tapering ventral cirri as long as the last five or six segments and below these a second pair of minute cirri.
Parapodia strictly uniramous, lateral, the first five or six more ventral than the others.
Neuropodium short, stout, bearing a fleshy post-acicular lobe on anterior parapodia which disappears on middle and posterior ones.
Anterior to this is a row of conspicuous black acicula and a rather complex group of seta?.
Notocirrus of first parapodium (III) rather stout, conical, tapering, simple, free from but immediately above foot and about twice as long as the latter; thence becoming gradually smaller caudad and in branchial region reduced to a mere tubercle, but increasing in length again posteriorly.
Neurocirrus coalesced with base of neuropodium, consisting of a stout, swollen cirrophore and a short, thick, cylinclroid, imperfectly differentiated style; farther back the cirrophore merges more into the body outline and the style becomes more slender but is otherwise unaltered.
Gills simple, tapering filaments throughout.
The first appears as a minute papilla on the notocirrus of XVI to XX, but they are usually not developed into efficient gills for several segments.
At XXI or XXII they are usually as long as the notocirrus; in the middle region they reach the middle line and posteriorly gradually diminish in size and finally disappear about twenty segments anterior to the pygidium.
Acicula three to five anteriorly, simple, tapered, black, with pale tips little or not at all exposed.
They become gradually longer, constantly three in number, conspicuous with prominently projecting bluntly-pointed tips which are always pale with black cores.
Somewhere between XX and XXX and on following segments an especially large one diverges from the others and protrudes from the surface between the neurocirrus and the compound setae.
Setae all nearly or quite colorless, of three forms : two forms of simple setae in supra-post-acicular fascicles and compound setae in sub-preacicular fascicles.
Compound setae (PI.
VII, fig.
10) numerous, especially anteriorly where they occur in several rows anterior as well as ventral to the acicula; farther back they become fewer and are confined to the ventral group.
The stems are gently curved and very little thickened distally; the appendages very uniformly of a length about four times the distal diameter of the stem with obscurely hooked bidentate tips and a finely fringed border separating at the tip into the usual guard.
The fascicles of simple setae consist chiefly of curved, capillary, slightly limbate or at least flattened setae (PI.
VII, fig.
8) considerably longer than the compound setae.
Concealed among the bases of the latter on the acicular side of the fascicle is a group of very delicate gouge-shaped, pectinate setae (PL VII, fig.
9), very few anterior^, more numerous farther back and apparently all of one form.
Jaws of somewhat soft and flexible brown chitinoid material, the teeth somewhat whitened and hardened by a calcareous deposit.
Mandibles (PI.
VII, fig.
11) consisting of long, slender, strongly divergent carriers, firmly united anteriorly and bearing white, hard, calcareous, subovate distal plates with smooth and entire margins.
Forceps jaws (PI.
VII, fig.
12) massive, with an undivided, shield-shaped base about three-fifths as wide as long, truncate distally, pointed behind ; the forceps stout with strongly ridged but toothless bases and hooked tips flattened and angulated along the concavity.
Second pair of maxillae (II) also massive, the left one with three, the right with four stout teeth.
Maxillae (III) consist of a pair of crescentic plates bearing ridges with five teeth on the left, six on the right side; IV bears three or four stout teeth on the left side and a low edentulous ridge on the right side; V is represented on the left side only and is similar to the right IV.
Color in life unknown, but probably pale reddish like other species of the gems.
Known only from the vicinity of Monterey Bay; "big tide pool.
June 20, 1905," E. C. Starks.
Marphysa californica sp.
nov. (Plates VII and VIII, figs.
13-20).
This species is based upon the anterior ends of two specimens, one (type) very large, measuring 11 mm.
wide and 80 mm.
long for 92 segments, the other, consisting of 140 segments, 45 mm.
long and 3 mm.
wide.
Both are much contracted.
Prostomium retracted beneath nuchal collar as far as base of tentacles, the exposed portion nearly as wide as long and consisting chiefly of the pair of broadly ovate frontal lobes divided by a median furrow that reaches nearly to the median tentacle, but with no trace of a ventral transverse furrow.
Tentacles five, arising along a transverse curved line, median and outer pair subequal, the inner pair slightly longer and about equal to one and one-half times the width of the prostomium.
They are longer and more slender than those of M .
stylobranchiata and taper regularly to the end, being marked by irregular, more or less conspicuous transverse wrinkles for the entire length.
Eyes one pair, inconspicuous and small, behind and external to the base of the inner paired tentacles.
Peristomium large, terete, swollen and furrowed laterally where it is more than three times as long as somite II, which is simple and apodous and about as long as the succeeding podous segments.
No nuchal cirri.
Remaining segments foot-bearing, the first five or six terete and narrow, after which they become wider and more depressed but not longer, those of the anterior branchial region being ten to twelve times as wide as long, decidedly depressed and equally convex dorsally and ventrally.
The smaller specimen is widest at about the posterior end of the anterior fourth and tapers thence caudad.
Caudal end and pygidium unknown.
Parapodia begin on II at a low level and gradually rise to about XV, where they occupy about a middle level.
First four small, the others of normal proportions and differing in no essential from those of M .
stylobranchiata, although the postsetal lobe is relatively broader (that of IV is abnormally bifid).
Gills when fully developed pectinate, consisting of a short basal stem bearing from four to six slender, tapering, cross-wrinkled, crowded filaments not exceeding a length of one-fifth of the body width and none of which reaches the median line.
On the type they begin at XXXIII on the left side with two filaments and at XXXIV on the right side with two filaments; three filaments occur on each side of XXXVI; for the next fifteen segments four is the usual number of filaments; between LV and LXV five is more frequent and thence to LXXXV or LXXXVI the maximum number of five or six or rarely even seven occurs ; behind this to the end of the piece all gills are quinquefid.
On the smaller specimen the gills begin farther forward and are much simpler.
From XX or XXI to XXV they are simple, to XLIV and LI bifid, thence to about XC mostly trifid, then again bifid to CXXIV, and after that to the end of the piece they consist of a single filament.
Neuropodial acicula are simple, straight, tapered, blunt-pointed spikes, black or nearly black to the tips.
On anterior parapodia there are four to six, with the tips little or not at all exposed and arranged in an oblique series between the two tufts of setse.
Farther back on middle segments there are only three much stouter acicula, the nearly black tips of which are conspicuously exposed.
The cotype has only two of the spinelike acicula on middle parapodia and in addition a pale, more slender, bifid and hooded ventral crochet (PI.
VII, fig.
16), which is missing in all of the preparations made from the type.
Setse generally more prolonged than those of M. stylobranchiata.
Post-supra-acicular tuft very dense on anterior segments, consisting of numerous curved, tapering alimbate setse (PI.
VII, fig.
13), the dorsal ones longer, more slender and colorless, the ventral shorter, stouter and yellow.
On these segments the pectinate setae are few and difficult to see and bear numerous fine teeth (PI.
VII, fig.
14a).
Farther back the slender seta?
become fewer and the pectinate setae of two forms, the one like those on anterior segments, the other (fig.
146) with few coarse teeth.
Compound setae have the distal end of the stems somewhat coarsely toothed and the appendages very long, slender and tapered, with scarcely visible marginal denticulation (PI.
VII, fig.
15) ; more dorsal appendages are fully twice as long as the most ventral and all appendages become longer caudacl.
Jaws deep brown, moderately hard but generally less massive than those of M. stylobranchiata.
Mandibles (PL VII, figs.
17, 18) of two sides only slightly united, the carriers moderately divergent, long, regularly tapered and rather rough; calcified end-plates small, irregularly elliptical and coarsely toothed on the margin.
Forceps jaws (PL VIII, figs.
19, 20) with carriers of incompletely united halves, quite as wide as long, broad and truncated at both ends and with a deep lateral notch about the middle of each side.
The forceps have broad, strongly ridged hinge bases and edentulous masticatory plates, the distal part being comparatively slender and not strongly hooked.
The second pair of maxilla?
(II) are large and nearly symmetrical, each bearing four or five large, stout, hooked teeth.
The next plate (III) is curved and much larger on the right, on which it bears seven or eight blunt conical teeth, than on the left side which bears six.
In addition the right side bears a single small jaw, consisting of two thin plates meeting in a thickened ridge (IV).
On the left side is a similar but smaller lateral jaw (V) and an internal curved plate bearing about six marginal teeth (IV).
Color anteriorly dull reddish purple marked with numerous small white spots, the cuticle with a greenish iridescence.
Posteriorly the color is grayish with a pink tinge.
Type locality San Diego; E. C. Starks, collector.
ONUPHIDiE.
Diopatra californica Moore.
Diopatra californica Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
4S4-487; PI.
XXXVII, figs.
1-9.
San Diego, six specimens, including the type and cotype, taken in the tidal zone.
Some of the gills are less elongated than in the type, and on one the spiral arrangement continues to about XXXIV.
When perfect the tentacles taper to slender tips, the median reaching to XX, the inner pair to XVIII and the outer pair to XII.
On one counted the last gill is on LVI.
LUMBRINERID^l.
Lumbrineris zonata Johnson.
Lumbriconereis zonata Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
408, 409; PI.
9, figs.
93-100.
San Diego, several.
Monterey Bay, numerous specimens taken at the following named points: "big tide pool," June 20, 1905; "point above Third Beach," July 12, 1904, and July 6, 1905; "Moss Beach," July 7, 1905; and "picnic tables, 17-mile drive," June 29, 1904.
This species is generally more slender than the next, the largest example reaching a diameter of only 3 mm.
The cuticle frequently exhibits a beautiful greenish luster.
Many of the specimens are brown or purplish-brown with darker spots on the prostomium, peristomium and on the sides of the setigerous segments; others are conspicuously annulated with dark brown bands and others nearly uniform in color.
Those carefully studied have the seta?
arranged in some of the anterior parapodia ( V-XV) as follows : 3 or 4 large bilimbate dorsal seta?, 3 or 4 short hooded crochets in the middle and 3 small sigmoid bilimbate seta?
below.
The large maxillae commonly bear four or five teeth.
The caudal end tapers rapidly to a minute tubular pygidium bearing a pair of closely approximated, very short, thick, blunt cirri.
Lumbrinsris erecta Moore Lumbriconereis erecta Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
490492; PI.
XXXVII, figs.
19-22, PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
23-25.
Unlike the last this species appears to be most abundant at San Diego, where about forty specimens were taken in the littoral zone.
At Monterey Bay several were taken at "big tide pool," June 20, 1905, and "Third Beach Point," July 6, 1905.
The largest measure nearly 7 mm.
in diameter.
The prostomium may be broad and obtuse or pointed.
The posterior parapodia bear very long erect lobes which are the distinguishing feature of this species.
The large maxilla?
bear four teeth.
Stalked infusoria are frequently attached in the furrows between the parapodia.
Drilonereis nuda sp.
nov. (Plate VIII, tigs.
21-23).
Excessively elongated and filamentous and of nearly uniform diameter.
The three complete specimens in the collection are respectively 327, 445 (type) and 630 mm.
long, with 480, 652 and 935 segments, the maximum width being 1.3 mm.
and the depth 1 mm.
Prostomium strongly depressed, about one-third as deep as broad and nearly as broad as long in the type, but more extended in one cotype, broadly rounded in front, slight median grooves extending for most of the length of both dorsal and ventral faces.
No eyes or nuchal organs visible.
Peristomium a simple ring, strictly terete and about one-half as long as and slightly wider than the prostomium; its free ventral border forming a furrowed lip bounding the large mouth.
Somite II also achsetous, slightly smaller and more strongly convex laterally, in the latter respect resembling the setigerous segments.
Body terete or with the venter slightly flattened, a little wider than deep and with a more or less evident longitudinal parapodial furrow along the sides.
It is slightly enlarged in the middle and tapers gently both ways, the posterior end being more slender.
Setigerous segments simple or when contracted faintly triannulate; anterior segments one-third as long as wide, middle and posterior often as long as wide.
Pygidium a simple ring with vertical slit-like anus and no trace of cirri.
Parapodia (PI.
VIII, fig.
21) strictly lateral, minute, the posterior ones slightly larger but never exceeding one-third the length of their somites; all similar, consisting of a small rounded setigerous tubercle and a small postsetal lobe slightly flattened and bent dorsad.
Seta?
few, varying from nine to eleven anteriorly and six or seven posteriorly; all pale yellow and of one form (PI.
VIII, fig.
22), somewhat geniculate, with the narrowly limbate end exhibiting a gentle sigmoid curve.
In the bundles they tend to separate into a dorsal and a ventral group, the former including the somewhat larger number, or into three groups, the dorsalmost of which is formed of one, two or three setse having somewhat more prolonged tips than the others.
Anterior parapodia are supported by one or two stout acicula completely concealed within the body walls.
At about XXV to XXX the aciculum (or acicula) reaches the surface and projects as a stout spine (or 2) ventral to the fascicle of setse (fig.
21), a condition that continues to the caudal end.
When two acicula are present one is usually stouter and is accompanied by a minute delicate seta, probably the tip of an undeveloped ordinary seta.
Jaws when at rest and retracted in somites VIII to X.
Although the pharynx is lined throughout by a thick cuticle there is no trace of mandibles in the two specimens dissected.
Maxilla?
(PI.
VIII, fig.
23) black, dense and very hard; the forceps jaws (I) broad at base, stout, very strongly hooked at the end and lacking basal masticatory teeth ; their paired filamentous carriers twice as long as the entire series of jaws and distinct nearly to the anterior end, where they unite into a small vertical plate bearing on its ventral margin an irregular horizontal plate with ragged tendons for muscular attachment.
Second pair of maxillae (II) thick, triangular, curved plates bearing a thin internal accessory plate or wing, and about five marginal teeth on the left' and seven on the right side, the most anterior in each case being strongly hooked and much the largest.
The anterior pairs (III and IV) are small plates with one very acute, erect, claw-like tooth, III, having on the left side one and on the right side two additional small internal cusps.
On the left side there is also a minute V bearing two small hooked teeth.
Color brown, each somite sometimes with two dark rings which may be concentrated in deep spots above the parapodia.
Cuticle with a brilliant green iridescence.
The specimens were taken at a big tide pool near Monterey Bay, the type on July 6, 1905, and the cotypes on June 20, 1905.
STAURONERBIDJE.
Stauronereis moniloceras sp.
now (Plate VIII, figs.
21-29).
Form moderately slender, stoutest in pharyngeal region, thence tapering regularly caudad; anterior end broadly rounded, strongly arched above, flat below becoming rather more depressed posteriorly but the dorsum remaining rather strongly arched.
Maximum length recorded 69 mm., width in pharyngeal region 3 mm.
; number of segments up to 110.
Prostomium subgloboid, not annulated, broadly shield-shaped in outline, slightly longer than broad, slightly contracted toward the posterior border which bears a small, median, rounded lobe united with the median peristomial lobe.
Ventrally a pair of conspicuous palpal ridges separated by a deep cleft pass from the prostomium into the mouth and terminate in pointed processes within the buccal chamber.
Dorsal tentacles arise from sides of prostomium just behind the middle, are about one and one-half times as long as prostomium, slightly curved and divided into about seven (6-8) short joints.
Very conspicuous palps arise from beneath the tentacles from enlarged bases continuous with the palpal ridges and curve boldly back round the sides of the mouth ; they are about one and one-half times as long as the tentacles, rather strongly flattened proximally and undivided except for a few transverse furrows along the concave side.
Eyes two pairs, black, conspicuous, rounded, the posterior dorsal and close to the posterior border, the anterior dorso-lateral and just anterior to base of tentacles.
Peristomium enlarged and swollen, three times as wide as prostomium, nearly twice as wide as long and about as long as three succeeding segments, uniannular, strongly convex and elevated above and divided anteriorly into three lobes : a median united with the median prostomial lobe and a prominent lateral pair which embraces the sides of the prostomium as far forward as the tentacles.
Nuchal organs between these lobes and the prostomium, deep, quadrate, with furrows passing from the angles.
Mouth large with deeply furrowed lips, cutting the peristomium nearly to its caudal border.
Somite II a simple apodous ring one-third as long as the prostomium.
Succeeding segments podous, but otherwise similar to II.
Anteriorly they are one-eighth to one-sixth as long as wide, but become one-fourth to one-third as wide in the middle and posterior region.
All perfectly simple with rounded, bulging sides and separated by deep furrows ; a projection below each parapodium, combined with the flattened venter, produces an almost sole-like surface.
Pygidium an oblique ring with anus directed obliquely dorsad and surrounded by a low welt.
Caudal cirri two pairs, behind anus; the more dorsal cylindrical, longer, about equaling diameter of pygidium and formed of four or five articulations ; the more ventral about one-half as long, clavate and formed of two articulations.
Parapodia arise from a slight depression close to the ventral level of the segments and project prominently directly laterad to a distance of more than one-half width of body.
They are uniramal, consisting of a prominent neuropodium, compressed and somewhat expanded distally where it is divided into a broad rounded postsetal lobe, a shorter presetal lobe subdivided into two small secondary lobes and a small subsetal lobe.
In different regions the form of these lobes varies somewhat and especially they become more pointed posteriorly.
Neurocirri arise from basal half of venter of neuropodium, and as a simple conical or subcylindrical process reach nearly as far as its end.
Notocirri arise in contact with dorsal base of neuropodium and consist of a long cylindrical cirrophore ciliated on its ventral side, probably representing the notopodium, as it contains a slender aciculum or rarely two acicula, and reaching beyond the end of the neuropodium except on anterior segments; at its end it bears a conical style about one-third its length.
The first parapodium (on III) differs from all of the others in its very small size, greater simplicity (being entire distally), in its short, rounded neurocirrus and especially in the total absence of a notocirrus.
Neuropodial aciculum always single, moderately stout, tapered, straight, with a simple blunt point.
Notopodial acicula, one, or 17 rarely two, very slender, almost fibre-like, tapered and reaching nearly to tip of cirrophore.
All acicula pale yellow.
Setae perfectly colorless and vitreous, of two kinds: simple supraacicular and compound subacicular.
The former (PL VIII, fig.
25) number 15-20 on anterior parapodia, and become gradually fewer and stouter posteriorly until they are reduced to a single rather stout one.
They are gently curved, slightly tapered and faintly fringed along the convex side, and terminate rather abruptly in a small blunt hook which is embraced between a pair of guards difficult to observe on the more slender seta?, but sufficiently obvious on most of the stouter ones.
Compound setae form an oblique spreading tuft of twenty to thirty on anterior and about one-half as many or even fewer on posterior segments.
The stems (fig.
24) are gently curved, slightly enlarged and obliquely truncate distally, and just perceptibly denticulated on the convexity.
Appendages subtriangular, their length two or three times the distal width of the shaft, tapered to the prominently hooked tip, below which is a conspicuous accessory tooth, the whole protected on one side by a very delicate, minutely denticulated guard.
The jaws of only one specimen were dissected.
The smallest ones are deep brown, the others black and opaque.
Mandibles (fig.
26) are heavy, with forcep-shaped bases and massive end-plates, the convex margins and ends of which bear a series of blunt teeth and are much broken with use; a thin chitinoid streamer containing two or three black nodules is appended to the lateral side of the tip and the two plates are lightly jointed medially.
Maxillae form two long bands extending through about eight segments and borne on the dorsal face of a thick muscular pad.
They are slightly united behind and each consists of three series of denticles of about thirty-five or forty each, besides a posterior tract where the separate denticles of each series have coalesced.
All free denticles have more or less deeply cleft V-shaped bases, and those at the anterior end of each series are most complex, hooked and slender.
The inner series consists of small denticles (figs.
29a and b), the anterior members of which have a pair of long, subequal, acute teeth often flanked by smaller ones; passing caudad the lateral teeth disappear and then one of the large teeth, leaving a series of one-toothed plates that soon unite into a serrated band.
Jaws of the outer and middle series are much larger; the outer ones (fig.
27) with strongly curved stems and several acute teeth arranged asymmetrically near the end; several of the most anterior are very slender, strongly falcate and nearly simple, but they soon become more complex and then more massive, with the lateral teeth shorter and less distinct; finally they coalesce into a flexible band.
Those of the middle series (fig.
28) are generally similar to the outer, but tend toward greater symmetry and undergo similar changes caudally, where they tend to unite with the jaws of the outer series as well as with one another.
Sometimes the outer series is partly deficient.
The type is a female filled with large eggs and of a generally pale color tinged with rich rusty yellow anteriorly.
It was taken at Monterey Bay on June 20, 1905, by Mr. E. C. Starks.
Additional specimens were collected at the point above Third Beach, vicinity of Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904.
This species resembles Anisoceras vittata Grube and Oersted somewhat closely, and more complete information regarding the latter, which was taken at Punta Arenas, Costa Rica, may establish their identity.
It is, however, much larger than Oersted's specimens and differs from Grube's description in several other respects.
GLYOBRID^l.
Glycera nana Johnson.
Glycera nana Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), p. 411, PI.
10, figs.
103, 103a.
Seven specimens, one of large size, were taken at San Diego.
Glyoera rugosa Johnson.
Glycera rugosa Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
409411; PL 10, figs.
101, 102.
San Diego, six specimens.
Some of these have the branched gills extended on nearly every parapodium; on one they reach far beyond the parapodial lobes; others have all or nearly all retracted.
Hemipodia borealis Johnson.
Hemipodia borealis Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
411, 412; PI.
10, figs.
104, 104a.
San Diego, four specimens ; Monterey Bay, one at point above Third Beach, July 12, 1904.
An example 60 mm.
long and 2.5 mm.
in maximum width (exclusive of the parapodia) in the anterior fourth tapers regularly to the caudal end, and has 141 strongly biannulate segments which become relatively longer caudad where the larger podous annulus may be again divided.
The "head" consists of a wider basal two-fifths or more, consisting of at least two segments bearing minute setigerous parapodia, the peristomium and a portion of the prostomium.
It includes the mouth, which is bounded laterally by a pair of large, low pads.
The anterior part is a short, somewhat depressed, rapidly tapered cone obscurely divided into about eight rings and bearing at the apex two pairs of small but distinct, slender, divergent tentacles.
The parapodia agree with Johnson's figures; anteriorly they are small, but gradually increase in length until the posterior ones become quite prominent and slender.
ARICIID^.
Aricia johnsoni sp.
nov. (Plate VIII, figs.
30-33).
The solitary specimen upon which the following description is based lacks perhaps about 100 caudal segments, the remaining 182 segments measuring 72 mm., and in the widest part of the anterior region is 3 mm.
wide and 1.8 mm.
deep.
Prostomium small, acutely conical, about twice as long as the basal width, bearing at the apex a minute cirriform palpode, the base slightly swollen and on the dorsal surface exhibiting an obscure transverse row of minute specks, probably eye-spots.
Peristomium a truncated cone nearly as long as the peristomium and two to two and one-half times as broad ; on its venter is a quadrate, cushion-like area, behind which the minute mouth lies between it and somite II.
Anterior region of body strongly depressed, elliptical in section and scarcely two-thirds as deep as wide, increasing in width rapidly to X, then more gradually to the widest point at XVIII or XIX, following which is a rather marked constriction extending over about ten segments (those bearing the pectinated ventral folds).
The entire posterior region is very strongly convex below, flattened above, and bears the parapodial lobes, setae and gills in a dense brush-like arrangement.
Intersegmental furrows well marked ; segments of anterior region onethird to one-fifth as long as broad, obscurely biannulate owing to a slight welt and groove encircling them opposite the parapodia; segments following region of ventral pectinations simple and much shorter.
Pygidium unknown.
The ventral half of the welts alluded to above is better developed than the dorsal half and bears the pectinated folds which are incipient, as two or three small slender papillae, on each side of the neural line of XXI and XXII.
On XXIII they reach from the neuropodium to the middle line, consisting of five or six closely contiguous smaller papillae at the dorsal end and two or three larger detached papilla?
at the ventral end.
On succeeding somites the number of papillae increases to fifteen or sixteen on each side, all but the two or three ventralmost being in a close transverse series beginning immediately beneath the neuropodia.
On XXIX the papillae become fewer and less crowded and the next three segments bear only two or three detached papillae on each side immediately beneath the neuropodia, the median area being bare.
Parapodia of the anterior region are lateral and consist of low sloping neuropodial platforms, bearing palisades of four to six rows of setae backed by a low postsetal fold.
In the neighborhood of XV, where they are largest, they are about twice as deep as long, but anteriorly the depth diminishes until it scarcely exceeds the length, while behind XV they gradually decrease in both length and depth and in the pectinated region shift dorsad to assume the form characteristic of the posterior region at about XXII.
Notopodia of anterior region inconspicuous spreading tufts of sessile setae immediately dorsad of the neuropodia.
When fully changed, beginning at XXIV, the parapodia of the posterior region are strictly dorsal, borne with the gills on a transverse fold.
Each ramus consists of an elevated setigerous tubercle bearing a small erect tuft of slender capillary setae and, in the case of the neuropodium, a postsetal lobe divided into a minute conical ventral part connected by a membrane to the side of the segment, and a larger somewhat foliaceous dorsal part, while the postsetal lobe of the notopodium is slightly foliaceous, sublanceolate and abruptly bent at the base where it embraces the setae tuft.
The only change caudad is an increasing prominence for a time of the parapodia and a progressive increase in length and slenderness of the notopodial postsetal lobes.
Gills begin on XX as a pair of minute papillae situated on the dorsum and well separated from the notopodia.
They increase in length gradually and are fully developed only on segments following the pectinated region, where they increase correspondingly to the growth of the parapodia, but alway rise above the notopodial lobes as erect, slightly flattened, lanceolate and ciliated processes close to the median line and united with the opposite member of the pair by a low membrane.
No color remaining.
Proboscis unknown.
Notopodial setae of anterior region in spreading tufts, rather short, tapered, flexible, capillary, with conspicuous subannular cameration and along one side a small oblique opening into each chamber (PI.
VIII, fig.
32).
In the posterior region they are straighter, much longer, more slender and erect, and associated with the capillary setae in the ventral part of middle and posterior bundles are a few very delicate bifurcate setse of peculiar form (fig.
33).
They have the slender stem with half-round collar flanges which appear in profile as marginal serrations ; the end of each prong is expanded and slightly bilobed and provided along the inner side with long oblique hairs.
Anterior neuropodials form dense palisades of four to six series of chiefly short, blunt, somewhat clavate, yellow spines, bent near the end and marked with transverse serrullse at the convexity and with the tips enclosed in a sheath (fig.
30).
Those of the most caudal series of each palisade are more slender and bear a slender, tapered, smooth tip ; and at the ventral border of each is a small tuft of setse like the notopodials but smaller.
Neuropodial fascicles of the posterior region are small, compact, erect and consist of a few very slender, straight setse (fig.
31) with minute appressed teeth along one side.
Setse all colorless.
This species was taken at Moss Beach, near Monterey, Cal., on July 7, 1905.
It is probably the species mentioned as occurring commonly on the California coast by Dr. H. P. Johnson, our leading authority on the Polychseta of that region, to whom it is a pleasure to dedicate it.
The type is a female filled with large eggs.
Naineris robusta sp.
nov. (Plate VIII, figs.
34-37).
Form generally similar to N. longa but decidedly stouter, tapered both ways from the middle, the anterior end more depressed and broadly rounded into the prostomium, the posterior region subterete, strongly convex below, flattened above.
The largest specimen is 170 mm.
long and has a maximum diameter in the middle of the body of 4 mm.
; from 26 to 30 segments constitute the anterior region and as many as 360 the posterior region.
Prostomium broad, flat, somewhat shovel-shaped, broadly rounded and with a thin margin anteriorly; posteriorly somewhat narrower and retracted within the peristomium; ventrally it is continued by a somewhat swollen rugous area to the mouth and is united to the anterior peristomial ring.
No eyes; deep lateral recesses at the properistomial furrow represent the nuchal organs.
Peristomium a somewhat indistinct naked ring about equaling II, simple above, below split into two rings between the rugous folds of which the mouth lies.
Segments of anterior region about eight times as wide as long, convex below, slightly concave above and about half as deep as wide.
Passing into the posterior region the segments become shorter (about 12 times as wide as long), much deeper, very convex below and nearly flat above.
No sharp boundary exists between the two regions, but estimated, by the segment upon which conspicuous neuropodial setse cease twenty-eight may be counted in the anterior region.
Pygidium a short tube with large terminal anus surrounded by a membrane bearing a circle of minute papillae and a small but distinct pair of ventral cirri knobbed at the ends.
Parapodia begin on II.
When fully developed at about X the neuropodia consist of low fleshy projections at the extreme dorsal level of the sides; they bear a scarcely evident presetal lobe and a more prominent thick postsetal lobe which rises above into a free process especially evident on the more restricted neuropodia of anterior and posterior segments.
Setae are of a deep brown color and form a conspicuous palisade of five or sometimes six vertical series arranged in an elliptical area three times as deep (dorso-ventrally) as long (antero-posteriorly) on middle segments, but less deep anteriorly and posteriorly.
In the posterior region neuropodia become reduced to small pointed processes situated ventro-laterad of the notopodia, with which they are united by an integumental fold ; they bear a tuft of inconspicuous setae.
Notopodia of anterior region dorsal, separated from the neuropodia by a short interval and consisting of a short setigerous tubercle and a small but prominent postsetal lobe thickened along the lateral border and rising mesially into a pointed process; they bear small spreading tufts of setae of various lengths, the longest directed mesially.
Except that they become more elevated, the postsetal lobes erect and sublanceolate in form and the setae reduced to small vertical fascicles, the notopodia are little changed in the posterior region.
Branchiae appear at from VII to X as slender and inconspicuous processes as long as the segment and arising from the dorsum just mediad of the notopodia.
No marked change is undergone until, passing into the posterior region at about XXIX, they abruptly become much longer, flattened and lanceolate, densely ciliated on both borders and united to the notopodia by a membranous fold.
They completely fill the dorsal field between the notopodia and generally extend mediad until they touch and bend sharply dorsad.
They continue to the posterior end.
No clear distinction between acicula and setae exists, but some of the latter reach deeply into the body walls and serve for muscular attachment.
On typical anterior neuropodia the stout, brown setae form a conspicuous palisade of five (or rarely six) vertical rows which bend backward and successively overlap.
Those of the posterior series (PI.
VIII, fig.
34) are stouter than the others, with short, blunt roughened tips; the others (fig.
35) are abruptly contracted immediately beyond the surface of the body and taper into long, acute tips finely denticulated along one margin.
There is also a small ventral group, arranged in a few obliquely longitudinal rows, of slender capillary setae denticulated and camerated like the notopodials.
Anteriorly these capillary setae increase in number, the tips of the stouter setae lengthen and the rows become shorter, although remaining five.
Posteriorly the length of the rows again decreases and at about XXX their number is abruptly reduced from five to three and the stout setae quickly disappear, leaving only the ventral capillary setae.
These are colorless and exactly like the notopodials of the same region, except that they are somewhat shorter and the fascicles more spreading.
They undergo little change throughout the posterior region, but on middle and posterior segments six or eight small blunt spines appear among their bases and probably represent the projecting ends of acicula.
Except that the tufts are larger and more spreading in the anterior and more erect in the posterior region the capillary notopodial setae do not differ.
They are colorless, slender with much attenuated tips, slightly curved and the distal half asymmetrically camerated and finely denticulated along the convexity (fig.
36).
A very small number of bifurcate setae (fig.
37) are associated with the capillary setae in the ventral part of the bundle, but they aredifficult to see and appear to be absent from the anterior and many segments of the posterior region.
The protruded proboscis has the form of a rosette with ruffled margins, the deepest folds dividing it into four lobes, each of which is again subdivided into two, three or four much folded lobules.
Color pale brown with neural and infrapodal series of spots, or more extensively pigmented with dark brown.
The type and two other examples, the former being an egg-bearing female, were taken between tides at San Diego, and a single specimen at Monterey Bay on June 20, 1905.
Naineris longa sp.
nov. (Plate VIII, figs.
38-42).
Form moderately slender; the anterior region slightly wider and obscurely separated from the posterior by a slight constriction, rather strongly depressed, flattened above; posterior region gently tapered caudad, strongly convex below, flat above.
Length up to 140 mm., of which the anterior region is 16 mm.
; width and depth at caudal end of anterior region respectively 3 mm.
and 2.5 mm.
Number of segments of full-grown worms 290 to 310, of which 22 to 26 belong to the anterior region.
Prostomium broad, flat, about twice as wide as long; anterior border gently convex and slightly upturned; ventral surface extended somewhat backwards to the mouth as a slightly rugous area; a few spots of pigment but no distinct eyes on the dorsum.
On each side at the junction of prostomium and peristomium is a deep nuchal pit.
Peristomium a distinct achaetous ring, longer than either prostomium or somite II, simple and entire dorsally, but ventrally divided nearly or quite to its posterior border by the large subtriangular mouth, a small median process of II projecting slightly into the incision.
Two regions of the body not sharply defined, distinguished chiefly by differences in character of the notopodia and degree of development of the gills.
Segments of anterior region depressed, convex below and flat above, distinct and sharply defined by well-marked but not especially deep furrows, uniannular marked by a slight transverse ridge ventrally and by a pair of faint impressed paramedian longitudinal lines dorsally.
Segments of posterior region short, at first much crowded but farther back much less so, similar to those of anterior region, but lacking the dorsal impressed lines and much more strongly convex below.
Caudal end depressed and broadly rounded, ending in a short tubular pygidium with large anus directed slightly upward and surrounded by a circle of papillae and a pair of minute ventral cirri.
Parapodia biramous, beginning on II and situated at a high level.
Neuropodia of anterior segments small, rather fleshy, elliptical sloping prominences about as deep dorso-ventrally as long antero-posteriorly, and produced into small rounded postsetal lobes which on more posterior segments tend to be prolonged dorsad.
They are largest on the middle segments of the region and the three rows of stout setae that they bear are here stoutest.
Notopodia separated from neuropodia by a deep groove and consisting of small tubercles bearing a slender tuft of capillary setae, behind and below which is a subcorneal, erect postsetal lobe most prominent on anterior somites, and when best developed bearing a convex wing on the ventral side of its base.
On posterior segments of this region the neuropodia become smaller and shifted dorsad and the rami crowded.
On the posterior region both rami are borne on the dorsum and so closely approximated that they seem almost to have a common somewhat elevated base.
Both rami are foliaceous, the neuropodium small and somewhat mammilliform bearing its setae in a fan-shaped fascicle; the notopodium consisting of an erect, sub-lanceolate postsetal lobe and bearing a small compact tuft of setae.
Gills begin on from X to XII as slender, erect, conical processes on the dorsum immediately above the notopodia.
They undergo little change to the last two or three segments of the anterior region, where they rather abruptly become longer and thicker.
On anterior segments of the second region they extend transversely across the dorsum from the notopodia and meet medially, but though continuing to the posterior end they become gradually smaller.
Each includes a single vascular loop, and is heavily ciliated along the medial margin.
Notopodial capillary setae (PI.
VIII, fig.
40) appear to be similar throughout — soft, slender, tapered, regularly and closely provided with obscure, incomplete sheaths, corresponding to slight internal cameration.
The fascicles are slightly more spreading anteriorly, more compact and erect posteriorly.
At the base of the notopodials on the ventral side of the tuft are three or four small and delicate bifurcate setae (fig.
42) with serrated stems and slender tapered prongs bearing a series of long oblique hairs.
Neuropodials of the posterior region are mostly similar to the notopodials, but the sculptured region is shorter, and in addition there is a ventral series of about six small smooth blunt spines (fig.
41).
Anterior neuropodials are arranged in three nearly vertical series, the first extending most ventral.
All are stout, but those of the anterior two rows (fig.
39) bear slender terminal portions similar in structure to the notopodial setae but much more abruptly tapered; those of the posterior series are stout, curved, smooth, clavate spines (fig.
38).
Ventral to the palisade is a crescentic series of smaller capillary setae.
All of these setae are stoutest in the middle and posterior parapodia of the anterior region, but on the last few transition segments rapidly become more slender and the series short and restricted from the ventral end.
Or it may be said that the three series of stout spinous setae gradually disappear, finally leaving only the ventral group of slender setae with a few small spines.
Proboscis partially protruded on several specimens.
It appears to consist of four principal divisions, each again bilobate and bearing from four to ten slender elongated processes with a continuous hemlike raised border, leaving a longitudinal groove on each.
The lobes are often irregular and unequal and some specimens appear to have the proboscis divided into from five to eight fimbriated lobes.
Color in alcohol dull creamy yellow, more or less marked with brown pigment which is most constant as three series of ventral spots, a subneural and paired infra-podal.
Others have the gills or parapodia pigmented and others the dorsum marked with suffused spots or welldefined annulations, while extreme forms may be deep chocolate brown.
This species appears to be quite plentiful between tides in the vicinity of Monterey Bay and was taken at Third Beach Point (which is the type locality) on July 6, and at "big tide pool" on June 20.
A single example also occurs in the Starks collection from San Diego, also taken between tides.
OIRRATULID^i.
Cirratulus spirabranchus Moore.
Cirratulus spirabranchxis Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
492, 493; PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
26 and 27.
Cirratulus luxuriosus Moore.
Cirratulus luxuriosus Moore, Id., pp.
493, 494; PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
28-31.
Both of these species are quite plentiful between tides on the beach at San Diego.
Tharyx multifilis sp.
now (Plate IX, tig.
43).
The type (a male) is 58 mm.
long and has a maximum diameter at the end of the anterior third of 2.1 mm.
The segments number 240.
A female is slightly smaller and more slender.
Prostomium (fig.
43) a short slightly depressed cone with a rather deep ventral longitudinal groove and just anterior to it a transverse one.
No eyes visible, though there is a slight discoloration near the posterior border.
A pair of swellings behind and above mouth are the nuchal organs, but there is no trace of appendages.
Peristomium — probably representing three coalesced segments — a large, swollen, apodous region about twice as wide and long as the prostomium and marked with one or two partial furrows.
Mouth large, with smooth lips.
Remaining segments setigerous, the anterior region about six millimeters long, consisting of about sixty excessively short segments, twelve to twenty times as wide as long, depressed and somewhat widened.
Behind this the 'body is nearly terete, slightly flattened below and composed of longer, feebly separated segments about six to eight times as long as wide.
Segments all perfectly simple and uniannular.
The body increases in diameter through the anterior third and then tapers gradually to the caudal end, terminated by a minute pygidium with its central anus surrounded by a welt-like rim.
A narrow neural groove extends for the entire length and forks at the peristomium to embrace the mouth.
Parapodia consisting of minute setigerous notopodial and neuropodial tubercles, the latter situated close to the ventral surface at the foot of the strongly arched dorsum.
Immediately above the first arises the pair of large clavate tentacular cirri, which have a diameter nearly equal to the length of the prostomium and a length of nearly onethird the body, grooved and crenulated for the entire length, narrow at the base and becoming gradually thicker toward the distal end.
One specimen bears a pair of minute branchiae on this segment; on the other they begin on the following segments.
The branchiae are very delicate extensile vascular filaments, which in all cages arise in actual contact with the dorsal side of the notopodium.
In perfect specimens they probably occur on every segment except about twenty at the caudal end, but in both of the two here described they are small or absent on many of the middle ones.
In the anterior depressed region they are more firmly attached and longer than elsewhere, occur regularly on every segment and form a crowded tangled mass.
Setae perfectly simple, colorless, smooth, slender capillaries, forming small, spreading, fan-shaped notopodial and neuropodial tufts; except that the notopodials are longer than the neuropodials and the anterior longer than the posterior they are all exactly alike, the longest equaling one-half the body diameter.
Color of male pale brownish, of female deep slate color.
Since the type of the genus Heterocirrus has been shown to be an epitokous phase of Dodecaceria, the next available name for such forms as Heterocirris multibranchis and the present species is Tharyx Webster and Benedict.
Dodecaceria paoifica (Fewkes) (Plate IX, fig.
44).
Sabella Pacified Fewkes, Bull.
Essex Inst., XXI (1889), pp.
132, 133; PI.
VII, figs.
1, 2.
More than a score of well-preserved examples of this species permit of the preparation of a description more complete than the original.
Usual length 30 to 40 mm., but sometimes extended to nearly twice that length; maximum diameter about 1 mm.
; number of segments from 90 to 110.
Body generally terete, usually slightly enlarged in the middle and tapered a little each way, but often depressed and distinctly widened at the posterior end; irregular enlargements and constrictions often present at one or two other points.
When depressed the venter is flat, the dorsum convex.
Prostomium and peristomium completely coalesced, together forming a subcorneal head about one and one-half times as long as wide, entirely without definite appendages, but with a pair of small dorsal spots which probably represent the nuchal organs.
The anterior half, representing the prostomium, is a somewhat scoop-like, broadly rounded lip deeply excavated below and overhanging the mouth, from the sides of which project a pair of small lobes probably representing palpi; these lobes and the ventral surface of the lip are pale, in sharp contrast to the nearly black surface of the remainder of the head.
The posterior or peristomial half is a simple naked ring.
Several of the immediately succeeding metastomial segments are very short, but those following become gradually longer until they are one-fourth or one-third as long as wide, but caudally they again become very short and crowded and end in a simple pygidium with rather large central anus.
The first metastomial segment (II) bears a dorsal pair of simple terete branchial filaments or notocirri which in extension are smooth and three or four times as long as the head and in contraction transversely wrinkled and much shorter ; ventral to these is a pair of usually shorter and thicker neurocirri or prehensile tentacles which are grooved along the ventral face and transversely wrinkled.
The latter vary much in length in different specimens, being in some less than the diameter of the body, in others more than three times the diameter.
Notocirral branchiae also occur on from seven to ten next succeeding segments (III to IX or XII).
Of these the first three are commonly larger than that on II, and because of the dorsal position of the latter and the extreme shortness of the segments lie at successively lower levels in a nearly vertical series; the fifth and succeeding pairs arise immediately dorsal to the notopodial setse and on the same level as the fourth pair.
Specimens from the vicinity of Monterey Bay have the fifth and rarely the sixth pair nearly as long as the more anterior, but on those from San Diego they are always much shorter like the remaining more caudal pairs, the last of which are usually mere rudiments.
Parapodia very small, lateral notopodial and ventro-lateral neuropodial tubercles separated by a small interval.
Small tufts of notopodial and neuropodial setse begin on II.
On from eight to eleven segments they are all slender, finely serrate setse, most numerous and longest in the notopodia, in which they may be as long as their segment or longer.
At from IX to XII two stout yellow spines, bifid and hooked at the end, appear in the neuropodium and a few segments caudad similar ones in the notopodium.
They may be accompanied by and alternate with two or three minute capillary setse, but by about XX and all through the middle region spines alone are present, from two to four occurring in each fascicle and the neuropodial (PL IX, fig.
44) being decidedly stouter with the terminal prong slightly hooked, flattened and excavated.
Notopodials straighter, less hooked and more flattened distally.
In the posterior fourth the spines of both fascicles become less stout, straighter and associated with capillary setse which gradually increase in length and finally displace the spines altogether.
In the preserved state these worms are perfectly opaque and of a deep sooty black or sometimes a bluish black, especially deep and uniform in the San Diego examples, but some of them become more or less brown in the middle or anterior regions.
Ventral face of prostomium, groove of prehensile neurocirri and bases of branchial notocirri pale.
About fifteen examples were taken at Third Beach Point, vicinity of Monterey Bay, on July 6, 1905, and about thirty at San Diego.
Most of these are mature and contain nearly ripe ova or sperm balls.
TEREBELLID^.
Terebella oalifomioa Moore.
Terebella (Schmardanella) californica Moore, Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.,, 1904, pp.
496-498; PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
36, 37.
This species is quite plentiful at San Diego, living in burrows in the beach at low water.
Including the lot upon which the original description was based, about thirty specimens occur in the collection.
Several are packed full of eggs and some of them are much longer than the type, reaching 130 mm.
The number of setigerous segments varies from 25 to 28.
Amphitrite robusta Johnson.
Amphitrite robusta Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
425, 426; PI.
16, figs.
164-168.
A single example taken at San Diego is a female stuffed with eggs.
It is about 105 mm.
long, the first eleven thoracic segments being 11 mm.
long and equal to the greatest width of the thorax.
Lanice heterobranchia Johnson.
Lanice heterobranchia Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
XXIX (1901), pp.
427; PI.
17, figs.
172-174.
San Diego.
A single small macerated Lanice probably represents this species, with the description of which it is in accord, except that the terminal twigs of the branchiae are fewer.
Pista elongata sp.
nov. (Plate IX, figs.
45-47).
Form rather slender and elongated, clavate, the somewhat thickened thorax followed by a constriction in the anterior abdominal region; posteriorly gently tapered to the pygidium.
Length 160-192 mm., of which the thorax is 25-28 mm.
; diameter of thorax 5 mm.
Number of segments 176-240, 20 belonging to the thorax.
Prostomium a prominent, stiff, broad and simply arched upper lip,.
behind which is the broad, tumid crescentic tentacular ridge, bearing the very numerous tentacles in about eight transverse rows.
Peristomium very short and obscure dorsally; ventrally prolonged into a prominent scoop-like fold bearing a tumid lower lip and produced laterally into a pair of rather prominent, broadly rounded wings.
Next three segments short, somewhat depressed, and branchiferous.
A pair of prominent, rounded, lateral wings arise at a level somewhat more dorsal than those on the peristomium and conceal the greater part of the sides of II.
Remaining thoracic somites are much longer and subterete, 3 or 4 annulate, with prominent, glandular parapodial areas and the dorsal and ventral fields much transversely wrinkled.
Ventral gland plates on II to XIII inclusive, but all rather inconspicuous and the first especially small.
Abdominal segments very numerous, flattened and muscular below, arched and thin-walled above.
Pygidium annular with a brownish thickened rim bearing a circle of about sixteen small, equal papillae surrounding the large anus.
Gills three pairs, on II, III and IV; except in one case all present and well developed, symmetrical, usually decreasing in size from before caudad, those of the middle pair arising at a slightly lower level than the others.
Owing to their great contractility they differ much in form and appearance, but are strictly aborescent and more or less open according to the degree of contraction.
When fully extended the stem is a smooth, tapering column having a length equaling or exceeding the thoracic diameter and bearing at the summit four or five main branches, each of which again divides about six times and terminates in slender tapered filaments.
The plan of division is dichotomous but irregularities are numerous, and although the trunk cannot be traced through the crown, one branch of a pair is usually larger than the other and frequently a single long tapering filament occurs opposite the point of origin of a branch of any order.
When contracted the branches appear short and cylindrical, with the filaments in crowded terminal tufts.
The latter are readily detached and regenerated.
Setigerous tubercles begin on IV and continue for seventeen segments or to XX.
They are large, prominent, well separated from the tori, somewhat flattened and bear broad fascicles of seta?.
The first pair (on IV) are smaller, and small papilliform cirri occur behind the setigerous tubercles of VI to X inclusive.
Uncinigerous tori well marked and regular, retractile ridges separated from the setigerous tubercles by an interval exceeding the diameter of the latter.
The first six (V-X) with uncini in one row and having a length of about twice the segment bearing them, the others with uncini in two interlocking series and at first abruptly much longer, but the caudal three or four again shorter and shifting on to the venter behind the ventral plates.
Abdominal tori small but prominent, lateroventral lappets bearing a single series of uncini sunken below a raised border and terminating dorsally in a short cirrus-like projection.
Setae pale yellow, numerous, arranged in two ranks in broad fascicles, those of one rank shorter, but all rather long, tapered, acute, bilimbate with rather broad but not extensive margins and entire, unfringed tips.
Uncini deep yellow on thorax, paler on abdomen.
On first six thoracic and all abdominal tori in a single series pointing forward, on XI to XX in double interlocking series.
About 40 on V to VII, 50 on VIII-X, 80-85 on XI to XV and 50-60 on XVI to XX.
Anterior abdominal tori bear about 70 uncini.
On somites V, VI and VII they are large, with long tapered handle-like bases (PI.
IX, fig.
45) and a prominent anterior projection for muscular attachment; the beak is long and nearly straight, the crest composed of a single transverse series of large teeth and the guard large.
These characters are most pronounced on V and gradually decline on VI and VII.
On VIII to X the uncini are transitional to the typical form (PL IX, fig.
46), which on the posterior thoracic somites has the manubrium much reduced and chiefly replaced by a thin, translucent, ligamentous expansion, the base short and triangular, the beak strongly hooked, short and stout and the crest more elevated and composed of about three transverse series of teeth of diminishing size.
Abdominal uncini (PL IX, fig.
47) still smaller with reduced convex bodies, acute, strongly hooked beak, high crest composed of numerous teeth and long filamentous anterior and posterior ligaments.
Color in alcohol uniform dark brown.
This species is founded on four specimens taken between tides at San Diego by E. C. Starks.
It differs from the Alaskan species provisionally referred to P. fasciata in the much greater length and more numerous abdominal segments, in the smaller lateral wings, the absence of a post-branchial fold and especially in the form of the branchiae.
It is closely related to the Japanese species P. maculata Marenzeller which has a similarly elongated body, three pairs of similarly branched gills and uncini of similar form.
The principal distinctions are that the latter has larger and more numerous ventral plates and no distinct second pair of lateral wings.
Pista (Scionopsis) alata sp.
nor.
(Plate IX, figs.
48-51).
Form moderately stout, widest and somewhat depressed anteriorly, tapered regularly to caudal end.
Length of type 63 mm., maximum width at X 9 mm.
Number of segments 94, in addition to a few scarcely differentiated ones at the caudal end.
Prostomium rather small but prominent, thickened, arched, its sides continued ventrad to nearly enclose the mouth, below which they end in a pair of short, thick lobes each bounded laterally by a slight indentation.
Tentaculiferous ridge low and thick, bearingnumerous tentacles arranged in a single transverse row in the medial and in two transverse rows in the lateral part.
Tentacles numerous, rather short and thick, very slightly attached by a contracted base and deeply grooved or folded for most of their length.
Many of the dorsalmost ones are short and imperfectly developed.
Peristomium and two or three immediately following segments short, contracted and terete.
Peristomium produced into a prominent ventral fold with a deep median emargination, on each side of which it spreads laterally as a great flaring wing reaching dorsally to the level of the setigerous tubercles.
Somites II and III are distinct dorsally and ventrally but confounded laterally.
The anterior margin of the former is produced on the ventral surface as a slight fold.
Beginning at the sides of the ventral plate of III is a pair of conspicuous wings which extend obliquely up the sides of III and the anterior margin of IV and which are united across the dorsum of the latter by a transverse fold bearing a prominent median forward projection.
Posterior to the branchial region the thoracic segments develop prominent glandular thickenings along the parapodial field, as a result of which they are wider than deep.
Behind X the thoracic region tapers into the abdomen, the transition into which is somewhat abrupt.
Ambulation of the somites is obscure, only the posterior thoracic and anterior abdominal showing faint indications of subdivisions.
There are fourteen well-marked ventral plates, the first on III, the last on XVI, behind which more obscure wrinkled and subdivided areas continue to the end of the thorax.
The first five are short, about four or five times as wide as long.
The others are very smooth, apparently very vascular and probably deep red in life, the relative width gradually increasing from equality to the length to double it, the greatest width in all cases being anterior, so that the entire series appears serrated laterally.
By the sides of each is a pair of rough glandular areas which posterior to XVI become united with the glandular ventral areas, giving them an irregular polygonal outline and 18 roughened surface.
Slight traces of similar structures continue on to a few anterior abdominal segments.
Middle and posterior abdominal segments are marked about the middle in the parapodial zone by a distinct, elevated, glandular ring, the remainder of the body wall being relatively thin and translucent.
Pygidium slightly expanded and bent dorsad, the large anus surrounded by a raised border.
Branchiae two pairs, on somites II and III, when contracted partially protected by the lateral wings and dorsal fold.
As in Scionopsis pahnata Verrill they are very unequally, asymmetrically and irregularly developed.
Both specimens have all four present.
On the type the right anterior is much the largest and situated exactly in the median line, the left anterior is very small; those of the posterior pair are symmetrical in position and close to the median line, and intermediate in size between those of the anterior pair, that of the left side being slightly larger.
The cotype has the anterior left largest, then the posterior right, the posterior left and the anterior right quite small.
The well-developed branchiae consist of a rather tall, column-like trunk which at once divides into several (3 to 5) main limbs which diverge and spread more or less horizontally.
Each main limb consists of a tapering, strongly zigzag axis which may be traced to the tip and gives rise at each bend to similar lateral branches which also spread horizontally and divide into branches of the third order.
Most of the latter bear two to six slender filaments which occasionally bifurcate or divide even farther and are usually (but not always) confined to one side of the branch.
Thus is produced a very beautiful and characteristic plume-like structure more or less complexly branched according to the size of the gill and having nearly the form of a branch of certain species of the plant Selaginella.
The main divisions of the large gill of the type specimen spread symmetrically and are so large that the second pair of gills is completely concealed beneath their posterior limbs, although these are much shorter than the anterior limbs.
Setigerous tubercles occur on somites IV to XX inclusive, separated from the uncinigerous tori by a slight interval and nearly in line with them.
They are nearly cylindrical but somewhat compressed anteroposteriorly.
Thoracic uncinigerous tori begin on V and are raised on thickened glandular areas.
The first two are longer than the others which are of nearly uniform length.
Nephridial papillae exist above those of VII to XVI at least.
Abdominal tori are small but prominent and decrease in vertical extent caudad.
All are distinctly bilobate, having the angles, especially the dorsal angle, produced, bent forward and free from uncini.
Setse in prominent flattened fascicles, arranged in two series of about fourteen to sixteen each, those of the anterior row about onehalf as long as those of the other.
Rather stout (PL IX, fig.
48), pale yellow, slightly curved and tapered to an acute tip, bilimbate with well-marked, lanceolate, entire but striated blades rather wider on the convex side.
Uncini in single series pointing forward on somites V to X and on all abdominal somites, in double interlocking series on somites XI to XX, 105 on V, 98 more crowded on VII, and about 65 in each row on XII.
On abdominal tori their number decreases from before caudad, there being 32 on XXI, 25 on XXXV, etc.
Uncini of somites V to VII (PL IX, fig.
49) have the base prolonged into a slender manubrium with a thin membranous border and a prominent anterior angle, the beak is long and slender and the low crest formed of a few large teeth; guard slightly developed.
On somites VIII to X the manubrium becomes gradually reduced and the remaining thoracic tori bear uncini of the form shown in fig.
50, which have the base short, without a manubrium, convex below, with slender ligament, well developed guard, stout beak, and high crest of several transverse rows of teeth.
Abdominal uncini (fig.
51) are small, with short base convex below and provided with slender anterior and posterior ligaments, no guard and beak and crest nearly as in posterior thoracic uncini.
The color has faded, but in life is probably chiefly translucent green or olive green, with scattered flakes of white and deep red blood spots behind the ventral plates and below the setigerous tubercles.
Type locality, San Diego; E. C. Starks, collector.
Two specimens, the type a female filled with large eggs.
Thelepus crispus Johnson.
Thelepus crispus Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, p. 428; PI.
17, figs.
175-1786.
Common at both San Diego and Monterey; at the former between tides and at the latter above and below low water.
At Monterey Bay specimens were taken at "big tide pool," June 28, 1904, point above Third Beach, July 12, 1904, and dredged at Delmonte wharf, same date.
Young and half-grown examples possess numerous eyes, but fullgrown ones are nearly or quite eyeless.
All specimens examined by me have the deep end of the uncini narrower than in Johnson 's figure and the knob terminal with no projection beyond it.
The uncini differ constantly from those of T. hamatus in the prominence of the large crest teeth, while the row of smaller apical teeth is very little developed or absent.
Those of T. hamatus, on the contrary, have the crest teeth less prominent but more numerous and subdivided.
The tubes resemble those of T. cincinnatus ; sometimes they are covered with shell sand.
Polycirrus sp.
?
(Plate IX, fig.
54).
A much macerated Polycirrus, dredged at Delmonte wharf, Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904, has uncini very closely resembling those of P. aurantiacus (Grube) Malmgren, but is too imperfect for description.
Polycirrus califomicus sp.
nov. (Plate IX, figs.
52, 53).
The type is 28 mm.
long, about 1.5 mm.
in maximum diameter and has 65 segments, 28 of which are setigerous.
Prostomium large, projecting far forward as a long, narrow, highly arched lobe shaped much like the inverted bowl of a spoon, about twice as long as wide and equaling the first four segments.
No eyes.
Tentacles very numerous, forming a densely tangled mass which conceals much of the anterior end of the body, of two kinds, one very slender and delicate, slightly enlarged distally and arising from a pair of lateral areas, the other stouter with thin marginal expansions and arising from a transverse band near the anterior border of the tentaculiferous area.
Peristomium a short, simple ring bounding the mouth; other segments varying in size with the degree of distention of the ccelom, the anterior ones faintly biannulate and the intersegmental furrows usually rather obscure; dorsum smooth and strongly arched, a longitudinal furrow immediately above the setigerous tubercles.
Venter with a deep neural groove bounded by prominent lateral muscular ridges supporting the parapodia.
First ventral plate entire, equilaterally triangular, the apex forward, extending the entire length of the peristomium and somite II, followed by eight short, oblong, ventral plates, each divided into equal quadrate halves by the deep neural groove, the first five reaching the full length of somites III to VII, the remaining three on segments VII to X being reduced in size.
The last ten or twelve segments taper very rapidly to a minute simple pygidium.
Coelom packed full of small eggs.
Setigerous tubercles begin on II and continue to XXIX (inclusive).
They are small, project dorsad and laterad and bear small fan-shaped fascicles of delicate colorless setse arranged in pairs of a small simply capillary setse and a longer limbate one.
After about XX the fascicles become much smaller and inconspicuous.
Tori begin on XIV, at least no trace of uncini can be detected anterior to this segment.
At first they are long, narrow ridges reaching nearly to the middle line and bearing a single series of about sixty uncini.
Posterior to the setigerous region the tori are shorter and thicker and bear only about forty uncini.
Uncini are small and delicate, the base with prominent posterior angle, the rostrum slender and acute and about half as long as the base, crest with two large profile teeth.
Anterior uncini (PL IX, fig.
52) have the base less produced and blunter in front than those from posterior tori (PI.
IX, fig.
53).
The uncini closely resemble those of P. nervosus v. Marenzeller, but the latter has thirty-two setigerous segments and differs in the character of the tentacles, the ventral plates and other features.
Besides the type there is one additional incomplete specimen, both having been taken at San Diego.
AMPHICTENIDiE.
Pectinaria brevicoma Johnson.
Pectinaria brevicoma Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
423, 424; PI.
15, figs.
151-156.
A single specimen taken at Delmonte wharf, in the vicinity of Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904, agrees with Johnson's description.
The tube is constructed of coarse sand grains.
OAPITELLID^J.
Notomastus tenuis sp.
nov. (Plate IX, fig.
55).
A slender elongated worm, the single example of which is macerated in the middle but well preserved at the ends.
The two pieces probably represent a nearly or quite complete worm which is 118 mm.
long and .8 mm.
in diameter.
Thoracic segments number 12 and abdominal 191.
The thorax of 12 segments is clavate, the anterior half thickened, the posterior gradually narrowed, the abdomen abruptly expanded to equal the maximum width of the thorax, then tapering gently to the pygidium.
Prostomium conical, pointed, with a few specks of pigment scattered along the sides; when retracted somewhat inflated and completely closing the mouth.
Peristomium simple, achsetous.
Thorax clavate, terete, smooth and scarcely iridescent, the intersegmental furrows faint; widest segment about two-fifths as long as wide, narrowest two-thirds as wide as long, most of them equally and obscurely biannulate, the interannular furrow with a backward bend or inset into the succeeding one at the position, 7 of , the lateral organs.
Neuropodia and notopodia represented by small linear depressed tufts of capillary setae, the notopoclial setse fewer and less crowded.
Anterior and posterior abdominal segments are relatively short (one-half to two-thirds as long as wide) and separated by deep intersegmental furrows; in the middle macerated region the segments are stretched to about twice their diameter.
Except at the posterior end, where the segments are somewhat angulated, the body is terete.
Pygidium (possibly regenerated) a simple, short, subcorneal ring.
No gills, genital pores, or lateral sense organs are visible.
Abdominal tori are short and scarcely visible.
The anterior notopodia bear about ten and the posterior about six crochets, while anterior neuropodia have 16-18 and posterior neuropodia about 10 crochets.
Crochets (PI.
IX, fig.
55) very small and all alike, with a distinct shoulder and a swelling neck bearing a very small head enclosed in a large hood.
San Diego, Cal.
; type only known.
Eunotomastus gordiodes sp.
nov. (Plate IX, fig.
56).
Evidently an elongated and slender species, but none of the specimens is nearly complete.
The longest pieces are 60 mm.
long and 1 mm.
diameter.
Prostomium a minute blunt palpode bearing a pair of nuchal organs.
Peristomium a truncate, subcorneal, smooth segment slightly longer than somite II and somewhat constricted about the middle.
A pair of small spots probably represent openings of the lateral organs.
The thorax consists of seventeen setigerous segments in addition to the peristomium, terete, of nearly uniform diameter, slightly contracted toward the posterior end, very smooth and with faint and often obsolete intersegmental furrows.
All of these segments bear small notopodial and neuropodial tufts of setse, the former separated by a distance slightly greater than the latter.
A very faint depressed spot on each side of the segment somewhat nearer to the notopodia than the neuropodia seems to be the orifice of the lateral organ; and almost equally obscure pores at the same level and in most of the posterior intersegmental furrows may be genital orifices.
Anterior abdominal segments scarcely differ from the thoracic, being similar in shape and proportions but less polished and iridescent, farther back they become longer but remain smooth and ill-defined.
The largest number of abdominal segments on any one piece is ninetyfive.
Abdominal neuropodia form distinct ventro-lateral tori, somewhat elevated and glandular, connected ventrally only by a glandular line and bearing a series of crochets extending over about one-sixth of the body circumference.
Notopodia similar but smaller, the first bearing capillary setse, the others crochets.
Number of neuropodial crochets on XIX 12-14, on XXV 32, notopodials on XXV 16.
Posterior abdominal segments bear rather conspicuous tufted dorsal gills, each consisting of eight or ten short filaments arising close together from the posterior margin of the segment in line with the notopodia.
The most anterior of these gills are small and somewhat pectinate, farther back they increase in size until the filaments have a length of one-third to one-half the diameter of the segments.
All setae are of the usual limbate, capillary form with very slender tips.
The crochets (PI.
IX, fig.
56) have a distinct shoulder, a neck that gradually increases in diameter to a rather large head with stout beak and high crest enclosed in a short but much inflated hood.
Each of the specimens is enveloped in a thin membranous tube covered by a single layer of loosely attached sand grains.
Taken only at San Diego at low water by E. C. Starks; four specimens.
As both this species and the type of Eunotomastus are known from incomplete specimens it is by no means certain that E. gordiodes is correctly referred to this genus.
Dasybranchus giganteus (Moore) (Plate IX, fig.
57).
Notomastus giganteus Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
227, 228; PI.
X, figs.
24, 25.
Specimens in this collection much better preserved than the type enable me to correct and amplify the original description and to correct the generic reference.
The stout form and large size are of course not at all noteworthy in the genus to which the worm is now referred.
Prostomium much retracted so that the tip alone is visible.
Protruded proboscis subglobular, bulbous, with a rosette-like end presenting eight sulcated radiating lobes and proximad to this a closely granulated basal ring.
All six specimens have twelve thoracic segments.
Peristomium about as long as succeeding segments, achsetous and biannulate.
Remaining thoracic segments setigerous, strongly biannulated and areolated on the surface.
Notopodial and neuropodial fascicles both simple linear tufts borne on the posterior ring just behind a tenonlike inset of the anterior ring.
Except on the first two or three setigerous segments the neuropodial fascicles are nearly twice as wide as the notopodial and separated by a ventral interval of nearly one-half the body diameter, the inter-ramal interval being slightly more than the inter-notopodial interval on anterior segments and nearly twice as great on XII.
Abdominal segments about half as long as thoracic, usually irregularly biannulate, thickly glandular anteriorly but (except at the tori) becoming thin-walled posteriorly.
Neuropodial tori extensive low ridges, reaching on anterior segments from above the middle level nearly to the neural line, but posteriorly scarcely half as long.
They become more elevated dorsally and end abruptly in a prominence, above which is the small but distinct rounded ovoid lateral organ.
The very small notopodial tori are dorsal and connected across the dorsum by a low transverse fold.
Posteriorly they become very obscure.
Branchiae are retractile and usually obscure anteriorly; on middle and posterior abdominal segments they become conspicuous bushy tufts composed of numerous (about 20-30) filaments arising from the posterior end of the notopodial tori, or posteriorly, where the tori become obsolete, replacing them.
Abdominal lateral organs are distinct only posteriorly where the tori become widely separated, appearing halfway between them as small rounded elevations, above and below which a few small papillae are scattered.
Thoracic lateral organs and genital pores were not observed.
The original drawings of crochets of this species were made from imperfect specimens and a corrected representation is shown in fig.
57, Plate IX.
Six specimens of this species, one of which is 6 mm.
in diameter, occur in the Starks collection and were taken at San Diego between tides.
Dasybranchus glabrus sp.
nov. (Plate IX.
fig.
58).
Body moderately stout, terete, and thickest anteriorly where it is shaped much like a small earthworm; posteriorly more slender and gently tapered, subquadrate, flattened below.
The type and only specimen is 45 mm.
long with a maximum diameter of 2.4 mm.
Thoracic segments 14, abdominal 157.
Prostomium partially retracted within the collar-like anterior border of the peristomium, the exposed part bluntly rounded anteriorly with a slight ventral longitudinal furrow.
Peristomium a long, deeply biannulate segment (perhaps two segments) as long as any two of those following; the first ring is marked by several shallow furrows.
Entire thorax with firm, smooth, thickly glandular walls, with very few markings; the segments all uniannulate and separated by deep intersegmental furrows.
Thoracic notopodia and neuropodia bear short, equal, retractile linear tufts of setae, the neuropodia being about twice as far apart as the notopodia and the distance between the latter about equaling the interramal space.
Lateral sense organs quite evident, slit-like pores near the caudal border of the segments and nearer to the notopodia than the neuropodia.
Abdominal segments very short and much crowded, especially toward the anterior end; posteriorly they are obscurely biannulate and less crowded.
Anterior abdominal segments are terete and have thick glandular walls much like the thoracic segments; farther back the walls become thinner and non-glandular and except in the region of the tori the surface is granular, and, chiefly owing to the separation of the tori dorsally and ventrally, the section becomes subquadrate.
Anterior abdominal segments have no distinct tori, but bear a continuous line of sessile crochets which appear to completely encircle the segment at the middle.
After about the twelfth abdominal segment a slight lateral or interramal break appears and gradually widens until the notopodia and neuropodia become well separated and distinct tori.
The neuropodia of each pair remain, however, continuous across the neural surface, but except on a few anterior segments the notopodia are discontinuous and posteriorly become separated quite widely.
Lateral sense organs are obscure on anterior abdominal segments, but on middle and posterior segments become distinct though small rounded eminences.
Pygidium probably injured as it is divided into several very irregular lobes.
Gills appear only in the posterior half of the body, usually as two, or sometimes three, short, hollow, sausage-shaped filaments issuing from a pore immediately dorsal to the neuropodium.
Thoracic setae are exclusively of the usual tapering capillary form with narrowly bilimbate ends.
Abdominal segments bear exclusively very numerous crochets of one form in both notopodia and neuropodia (PI.
IX, fig.
58).
They are slender without a distinct shoulder, but with a subterminal enlargement that tapers to a small head with hooked beak and three small teeth in the vertex of the crest, the end enclosed in a somewhat inflated hood.
The type was taken at San Diego Bay in December, 1902.
This species differs from typical members of the genus in having two more than the usual number of thoracic segments.
MALDAKIDJE.
Maldane disparidentata Moore.
Maldane disparidentata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
494-496; PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
28-31.
This species occurs in the collections from San Diego only, but appears to be quite common there.
One bottle contains, along with a specimen of this annelid, a small amphipod determined by Prof. S. J. Holmes as Melita sp.
which the label states lives commensally in its tube.
From M. biceps, to which it is most nearly related, this species is readily distinguished by having more numerous and blunter teeth on the anterior division of the cephalic limbus, the last preanal segment uniannulate instead of biannulate, and the emargination on the ventral division of the caudal funnel entire instead of emarginated and slightly lobate.
The fringed setse are of the bispiral type.
Clymenella rubrocincta Johnson.
Clymenella rubrocincta Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
418, 419; PI.
13, figs.
128-133.
The anterior half of one was taken between tides at San Diego.
AMMOCHARIDJE.
Ammoohares occidentalis Johnson.
Ammochares occidentalis Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), pp.
420-421; PI.
14, figs.
140-142.
A single example from San Diego.
It is a beautifully preserved specimen 30 mm.
long, with 22 setigerous segments.
A fragment of a tube is formed entirely of particles of shells.
Sclerocheilus pacificus sp.
nov. (Plate IX, fig.
59).
Form as in Scalibregma, clavate, the posterior two-thirds slender and of nearly uniform diameter but tapering slightly caudad; the anterior one-third abruptly swollen to three times the posterior diameter.
Length 25-35 mm., maximum diameter 2.5-3.6 mm.
Segments 60-72.
Prostomium depressed T-shaped, the basal part about as broad as long and nearly half as wide as the peristomium, into which it is deeply retracted.
Antero-lateral limbs blunt projections each about half as long as the width of the body of the prostomium.
On each side of the posterior dorsal region is a broad, black oblique streak which appears to be constituted of two parallel rows of small pigment specks.
At their anterior ends they are separated by one-half the width of the body of the prostomium, but diverge as they pass backward beneath the peristomial fold apparently into the nuchal organs.
Peristomium a short, simple, unsculptured ring incomplete ventrally where it reaches the sides of the mouth.
Somite II also a simple ring, but bearing lateral parapodia and bounding the mouth behind.
Succeeding somites increase in diameter and become rapidly inflated; III, IV and V are biannulate, with the larger setigerous annulus posterior, the smaller annulus apparently arising in the intersegmental furrow; VI and succeeding somites of the anterior region have the setigerous annulus divided equally by a furrow that appears just behind the setae.
Each of the three rings thus formed is divided by short deep furrows into a ring of tessellse or subquadrate areas which are much more conspicuous on the dorsum than on the venter.
In the posterior region the interannular furrows become very faint or completely disappear, leaving well-marked simple segments, generally about one-fourth or one-fifth as long as wide and only very obscurely areolated.
Pygidium a simple, slightly oblique ring which bears no cirri on either the type or cotype.
Body walls very thin and readily ruptured.
Proboscis partly everted as a smooth broadly trilobed disk.
Parapodia merely obscure lateral swellings involving the entire length of the somites in the anterior enlarged region and bearing the two well-separated linear tufts of seta?
opposite to the middle annulus.
Apparently there are no cirri, unless the minute knobs related to the setse fascicles prove to be such.
Gills are totally absent.
Setse colorless with a faint bluish luster, chiefly capillary, of various lengths, curved and slightly flattened distally.
Anteriorly they are most conspicuous, forming fan-shaped tufts with linear bases, the neuropodial more spreading, the notopodial longer and curved dorsad; the longest setse about as long as the segment.
Posteriorly the setse are fewer and less slender.
Short inconspicuous furcate setse (fig.
59) are paired with the capillary setse on all except a few anterior segments on which they cannot be seen.
There are no stout setse on II.
The type, a mature male, and a smaller cotype were taken at Third Beach Point, vicinity of Monterey Bay, by Mr. Spaulding on July 6, 1905.
This species as described differs widely from the type of the genus, especially in the absence of stout setse on II and the absence of neurocirri, though it is possible that the latter, like the caudal cirri, may be easily detached.
On the other hand the absence of gills and the presence of eye-spots are characters which approximate it to the type, S. minutus Grube.
This species would also seem to indicate that the creation of Asclerocheilus as a separate genus is unnecessary.
OHLORH^3MID^3.
Brada sp.
?
juv.
Two small specimens dredged at a depth of forty feet at San Diego are considered to be the young of a species of Brada or possibly of a Trophonia in which the anterior setse have not yet elongated.
They are about one-half inch long, clavate, with well-marked, simple segments, a few of which have been lost, thickly and uniformly covered with papillae both dorsally and ventrally, those in the neighborhood of the parapodia scarcely longer than the others.
All setse are short, only the notopodials of II being noticeably longer than the others.
On other segments both notopodial and neuropodial tufts consist of a very few small, slender, tapered, flexible setse composed of numerous joints which are always considerably longer than the diameter of the seta.
Neuropodials are no stouter than notopodials.
The setse differ from any species of Brada or Trophonia examined by me, but the differences are such as might be expected in juveniles.
Trophonia papillata Johnson.
Trophonia papillata Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX (1901), p. 416; PI.
12, figs.
122, 123.
Two specimens dredged at Delmonte wharf, Monterey Bay, July 12, 1904.
The larger one has the head protruded.
The mouth is a transverse crescentic slit bounded below by a flat, slightly bilobed lip and above by the slightly arched and thickened prostomium which bears the two thick palps, grooved below, and above them eight tentacles in a transverse series; the latter are about one-fourth as thick as the palps and slightly exceed them in length.
The small specimen is only 16 mm.
long with 36 segments, badly abraded and nearly smooth except the anterior four segments which are encased in a coating of agglutinated sand grains.
This may possibly be a distinct species.
Trophonia capulata sp.
nov. (Plate IX, figs.
60, 61).
This very distinct species is represented by the type only, which measures, exclusive of the cephalic setse, 108 mm.
long, the cephalic setse being 9 mm.
and the maximum diameter at the end of the first fourth 5.5 mm.
Number of segments 136, the first achsetous.
Form elongated clavate, somewhat depressed at anterior end, subterete at middle, becoming gradually subquadrate posteriorly.
Anterior half moderately stout, the posterior slender and gently tapered.
Ccelom containing many large free eggs.
Prostomium and peristomium completely retracted within first setigerous somite, leaving a small opening directed somewhat ventrad and surrounded by prominent papillae, often arranged in groups, and encrusted with fine sand grains, a particularly prominent group of about four forming a small tuft supported on a narrow pedicle in the mid-dorsal line between the first pair of notopodial setae fascicles.
Anterior end broadly rounded, the first few segments decidedly depressed but increasing in depth rapidly until by about VI they have become terete.
These segments are short, crowded and somewhat telescoped, so that each one somewhat overlaps the next anterior, especially dorsaUy where this feature is emphasized by the greater prominence of the cutaneous papilla?.
Remaining segments very regular, simple and smooth, with clean-cut though shallow furrows and from one-sixth to one-third as long as wide, becoming proportionately longer as the diameter decreases posteriorly.
Pygidium a simple ring entirely lacking cirri.
Integument thick and tough and more or less coated with a hard, adhesive layer of fine sand, beyond which the tips of only the larger papilla?
project.
On the venter and posteriorly the surface is nearly smooth and the incrustation thin, but on the anterior dorsal region it becomes rough and much thicker, forming, with the papillae, projecting anterior margins to the segments and ensheathing even the larger papillae nearly to their ends.
The larger cutaneous papilla?
are arranged as follows: On the dorsal field is a transverse row of six or eight projecting forward from the cephalic margin of each anterior segment.
In the ventral field on each side of the neural line and generally near the middle of the segment is a single clavate papilla, replaced on more anterior segments by a group of two or three; from one to three more occur ventrad of the neuropodium.
Surrounding the latter is an irregular ring of papillae composed usually of one or two dorsal and ventral, two to four anterior and usually three posterior, the middle one of the last group being much larger than the others and elevated prominently on a conical base.
A similar ring surrounds the notopodium, the postsetal group here also consisting of one or two of moderate size, and one very large one, often equaling the segment in length anteriorly and elevated on a base which may bear the smaller papillae as well.
Passing from before caudad all of these papillae gradually diminish in length, but their arrangement is constant.
Except on the first two or three segments, on which they are more crowded, the parapodia consist of widely separated notopodial and neuropodial nearly or quite sessile tufts of setae.
The former are fan-shaped fascicles of five to eight (the larger numbers on middle segments) flexible capillary setae.
Those of the first four (II to V) are elongated and directed forward, becoming in both respects less so from before backward; on II and III they are remarkably slender and silky and project far in front of the head to a distance of more than twice the diameter of the body; those of V scarcely equal the body diameter.
On middle segments the fascicles spread more widely over the dorsum and scarcely exceed the length of their segments.
Posteriorly they appear relatively but not actually longer.
Neuropodial setse are slightly coarser and fewer than the corresponding notopodials; those of the first three fascicles have filamentous tips and project forward like the notopodials, but are only about half as long; on other segments they curve dorsad up the sides of the body.
Setse are all pale brown, soft and iridescent.
As long as they project forward notopodials and neuropodials are similar, excessively slender, with straight acute tips and numerous cross fractures or nodes, which at the base of fully-grown setae occur five or six in a distance equal to the diameter, becoming gradually fewer until they are six or eight times as far apart.
As they lose the filamentous tips the notopodial setse have the region of crowded joints toward the base much restricted (PI.
IX, fig.
61).
Neuropodial seta?
in becoming shorter and stouter also acquire fewer and much longer joints, the terminal one becoming especially long and, beginning with V, with a distinctly hooked tip, which a few segments farther back becomes much larger and provided with an accessory process (fig.
60), thus having the form of a halter-snap like the setse seen in certain species of Sthenelais.
Color deep buff -gray and nearly uniform.
Type locality, San Diego Bay, Cal., between tide limits.
Flabelligera commensalis sp.
nov. (Plate IX, figs.
62, 63).
Form moderately slender, thickest in the cephalic fourth, thence tapering to caudal end but usually exhibiting irregular contractions or swellings ; more or less distinctly prismatic and somewhat compressed ; body-walls thin and delicate and more or less ruptured so that the viscera protrude.
Type and largest complete specimen 50 mm.
long and at the widest part (XX) 2.4 mm.
wide and 3.2 mm.
deep; this thickness, however, is probably in part due to an abnormal swelling.
Number of somites 90; a second complete specimen 48 mm.
long has 70 segments.
Prostomium with its appendages capable of complete retraction within the collar and only incompletely exposed in these specimens.
So far as observed it consists of a pair of thin membranous dorsal lobes, each bearing a dense tuft of thirty or forty slender tentacular filaments, the ends of which reach in extension scarcely beyond the ends of the collar setae.
The palpi, arising immediately beneath the tentacles and above the mouth, are more than twice as long and four or five times as thick as the tentacles, blunt, slightly tapered and fingerlike, not at all spatulate or flabelliform, the venter with a deep longitudinal groove, the margins of which are merely slightly crenulate and not lobed.
Mouth a transverse slit or a more rounded opening with lobed margins normally hidden at the bottom of the collar.
The collar region, reaching back as far as the first ordinary somite, probably represents the peristomium alone or perhaps both I and II.
It consists of a short achaetous posterior ring and a cylindrical or funnelform, thin membranous collar with small dorso-median, ventromedian and lateral incisions in its border, the whole being about as long as the three somites next following.
It bears the broad fanshaped conjoined fascicles of notopodial and neuropodial seta?
forming a close continuous series, which, like a palisade of stakes, build up the collar to double its own height.
When the cephalic appendages are extended they are embraced by the peristomial collar and setae cage and when retracted are concealed within them, the setse of the two sides drawing toward the middle line.
The collar, which clearly represents a pair of parapodia, is thickly studded with cutaneous papillae, those at the base of the setae being very numerous, much elongated and slender, with filamentous stalks bearing terminal knobs and often reaching the tips of the setae.
Succeeding segments are much shorter, their length never exceeding one-third the width, and quite simple, with the intersegmental papillae quite high between the parapodia but elsewhere very slightly developed.
Anteriorly for a short distance the body is subterete or subquadrate, but for most of its length, owing to the position of the parapodia, is subtriangular in section, the somewhat truncated apex being ventral, the nearly flat base dorsal and the usually somewhat convex sides lateral.
In places where the body is much distended this convexity or bulging may be sufficient to give to it a cross-section approaching the circular.
As noted above the body-wall is thin, easily ruptured, and semi-translucent.
Most of the surface is smooth and bears few and small papillae, but on the dorsum and about the parapodia they become larger and more numerous, those on and near the notopodia being largest of all and, like the collar papillae, bearing very large terminal knobs, and when extended reaching to the tips of the setae and giving to the notopodia the aspect of erect tufts or tassels.
The neuropodial papillae on the other hand are much shorter and, like those scattered over the dorsum, bear small terminal knobs.
Parapodia are remarkable chiefly for the position of the neuropodia.
The rami are rather large, widely separated and rather conspicuous papilla?.
Notopodia situated at the extreme dorsal and widest part of their segments, except on the first few at the basal angles of the triangle.
Owing to the slender papillae which they bear they have the form of graceful plumes or tassels bearing a few small capillary setae.
Neuropodia are rather larger, stouter and shorter subcorneal tubercles, resembling the false feet of certain caterpillars, and bearing much smaller and less conspicuous papillae and a single stout hooked seta.
Except on the first eight or ten segments which are more or less subterete and where they are widely separated, the bases of the two neuropodia are nearly in contact at the neural apex of the compressed triangular body.
Notopodial and collar setae (PI.
IX, fig.
62) are all of the capillary, soft, flexible, cross-fractured type, the former differing only in their much greater length.
In addition to a few, scarcely apparent, rudimentary setae of the same type each neuropodium bears one (or rarely two) large and stout hook (fig.
63), deep brown and opaque at the end, but becoming paler toward the base and having an imperfect joint below the hooked end.
These hooks are directed toward the middle line and are operated in pairs by powerful muscles, forming most effective organs of adhesion.
Dorsal surface and notopodia more or less deep (sometimes purplish) brown, which color usually completely covers the collar and may extend somewhat down the sides of the body which, like the venter and neuropodia, is pale yellow, usually sharply contrasted with the brown of the dorsum which appears to be due to the sensory papillae.
The alimentary canal exhibits the gizzard-like stomach and looped intestine characteristic of annelids of this family.
Unlike most species of the genus there is no mucous investment, at least on these specimens.
The four known specimens were taken at Picnic Tables, near Monterey, Cal., on August 14, 1904, from among the spines of Strongylocentrotus purpuratus.
The latter is undoubtedly a normal habitat, for which the structure of the worm admirably adapts it.
The color, lateral compression of the body, position of the neuropodia and the stout neuropodial hooks would be especially useful in this situation.
SABELLIDJE.
Sabella elegans Bush.
Sabella elegans Bush, Tubicolous Annelids from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp.
194, 195 (figures).
Vicinity of Monterey Bay only; four specimens "big tide pool," June 20, 1905; one small example dredged Delmonte wharf , July 12, 1904.
These specimens appear to belong to the above-named species, although Miss Bush's species of Sabella are not clearly differentiated in the brief descriptions.
The spots on the branchiae are usually five, fairly regular in arrangement, but varying much in intensity and the degree to which they extend on to the gill filaments.
The number of rachises varies from IS to 22 on each side.
The segments of one counted number 70, 8 of which are setigerous thoracic.
Distylia rugosa Moore.
Distylia rugosa Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1904, pp.
499-501; PI.
XXXVIII, figs.
3S-41.
Besides the type and cotype from which this species was originally described several additional specimens, all taken between tides at San Diego, occur in the collection.
The specimens are of various sizes, the largest measuring in its contracted state 105 mm.
long, of which the gills are 30 mm., and 11 mm.
wide.
In the different specimens the branchial rachises vary in number from 24 in one 40 mm.
long to 68 on each side of the large specimen.
In no case are any of the rachises forked.
The branchial bases make about 1% turns.
The eyes referred to in the original description are mere specks and dashes of pigment arranged in two series which may coalesce into more or less broken lines or be totally absent.
Sometimes the branchiae are of a nearly uniform wine brown with regular but obscure transverse pale bands ; in other cases they may be light or dark brown, irregularly mottled with pale.
The gill bases are uniform deep brown.
At the dorsal end of each abdominal torus is a very deep and conspicuous brown spot, from which a narrow brown line runs along the torus for its entire length, ending in a small spot at the ventral end.
The ventral plates are very deep purplish brown, the body elsewhere pale brown.
The largest specimen has the collar region so relaxed that the r mouth parts are well displayed.
The tentacles are narrowly lanceolate with a small divergent basal lobe and reach barely to the distal border of the branchial base.
Pseudopotamilla brevibranchiata Moore.
Pseudopotamilla brevibranchiata Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1905, pp.
559-562; PL XXXVII, figs.
8-14.
Two specimens taken at "big tide pool/' Monterey Bay, present several interesting divergences from the types.
19 The branchial barbs are somewhat longer — four or five times the diameter of the rachises and diminished but slightly toward the distal end — and the dorsal branchial lappet is very prominent.
Both specimens are filled with nearly mature eggs.
One has nine setigerous segments, the other only six and the thorax shorter than the gills.
The first has the eye-spots scattered through a wide zone and occasionally more than one on a rachis ; the other has a single nearly black eye-spot proximad of the middle on most of the middle rachises.
Both have the gills otherwise colorless.
The tubes form a cluster of three and are nearly colorless, stiff and hard and covered with an incrustation of fine sand.
Two other empty tubes dredged near the same locality probably also belong to this species.
SERPULID^E.
Protula superba sp.
nov. (Plate IX, figs.
64, 65).
The least contracted specimen of this magnificent serpulid has the body 88 mm.
long and the contracted gill-crowns 37 mm.
long; length of thorax measured along venter of mantle 37 mm.
; width of thorax at anterior end 16 mm., at posterior end 12 mm.
; depth at latter point 7 mm.
; width of abdomen at middle 10 mm.
; depth at same point 9 mm.
; length of branchial base 9 mm.
; length of one of the longest rachises 23 mm.
Number of thoracic segments 8 (7 setigerous), of abdominal segments 115-120.
Another specimen is even larger but more contracted.
The contracted branchial crowns form a pair of great compact brushes or plumes, the base and axis of which is a high spiral permanently wound into seven or eight close turns, stout and of firm texture throughout and triangular in section.
They are readily detached, leaving a triangular scar on each side of the mouth.
Leaving a short pedicel of attachment the branchiferous spiral begins on the dorsal side and bears in the one cotype on which they were counted no less than 320 radioles in a closely crowded series on each side.
The basal ones are the longest and they diminish in length regularly to the apex at a rate that indicates that their tips reach a uniform level in full extension.
A rather thick interbranchial membrane is connected with the outer faces of the basal ends of the rachises and unites them for about one-fifth of their length.
The rachises are compressed triangular with the base directed outward and the apex toward the center; narrow membranous borders are appended to the basal angles and reach from the interbranchial membrane nearly to their tips.
A double rank of numerous pinnae or filaments arises along the inner or apical face of the rachises and continues nearly to their tips ; the longest of these scarcely exceed the greater diameter of the rachises and they diminish in length distally.
Tentacles lanceolate, foliaceous, about as long as the diameter of the branchial bases, to the ventral side of which they are attached.
Just within them, enclosing the mouth and about one-third as high as the inter branchial membrane, are the oral membranes, which like the tentacles are detached with the branchial crowns.
Mouth transverse, its corners bounded above by a low rounded elevation, from between which a tongue-shaped process projects over the mouth.
Ventral to it is a soft irregular lip, and below this again a much larger firm triangular lip.
Thorax depressed, broader anteriorly than posteriorly and regularly tapered caudally.
Segments eight, all but the peristomium setigerous ; intersegmental furrows obsolete.
Thoracic mantle thin and greatly developed, embracing all of the setae tufts and extending beyond them to a width fully equal to that of the thorax.
Though folded and somewhat tufted between the fascicles of setae the margin of the membrane appears to be entire and not scalloped.
Its cephalic border is divided into a pair of dorsal setal lobes, enclosing the collar seta tufts, and a ventral pair of branchial lobes.
The median notch separating the latter is wide and shallow, the lateral notches, on the contrary, being deep and narrow.
The posterior fold or apron is thicker, has an extensive glandular area and projects only slightly as a broad median ventral lobe.
There is a broad but shallow and rather ill-defined dorsal thoracic groove and an annular groove, somewhat distinct on the dorsum, separating the thorax and abdomen.
Abdomen rather soft, broadly rounded laterally, slightly depressed, tapered gently to the pygidium and divided into dorsal, lateral or parapodial, and ventral or neural fields, the latter being marked by a broad, open fecal groove.
Abdominal segments numerous, very short, much crowded, and distinctly indicated by the extensive tori only.
Integument of dorsal and ventral surfaces more or less swollen and wrinkled, probably in part due to the preserving fluid.
A calcareous incrustation occupies a nearly circular area on the dorsum of the caudal end, which is bluntly rounded and terminated by a very short pygidium containing a large, vertical, slit-like anus guarded by somewhat tumid lips.
Thoracic setae form seven compact flattened tufts, somewhat spreading distally, of very numerous setae; they project obliquely dorsad and the collar tuft somewhat cephalad, the others caudad.
The collar fascicle is subdivided into two, the others into three ranks closely united above but separating somewhat ventrally, the anterior rank being composed of smaller seta?
and separated from the others by a small membranous fold.
All thoracic setae (PI.
IX, fig.
65) are similar, pale yellow, narrowly bilimbate, the more dorsal ones somewhat longer and those of the posterior rank slightly curved.
Abdominal fascicles are much smaller, with seldom more than twelve shorter but otherwise similar setse.
At the caudal end a certain number of segments bear much longer, very slender capillary setse without limbse.
Thoracic tori are very difficult to discern, the long, somewhat irregular series of very numerous uncini being nearly embedded in thick glandular areas below the setse tufts.
The narrow, vertical abdominal tori occupy the sides of the segments rather toward the venter.
They are crowded fleshy folds slightly free and projecting at both ends, longer in the middle of the abdomen, becoming shorter toward both ends, and finally obsolete caudally.
Uncini (PI.
IX, fig.
65) ver3 r numerous, not less than 350 on VIII, small, with the toothed margin very long, conspicuously elevated above and prolonged into a slender, blunt and slightly bifid or notched process below and bearing twenty to twenty-five long, slender, acute teeth, of which four or five smaller ones are on the inferior prolongation.
No difference between thoracic and abdominal tori was perceived.
At the ventral end of each abdominal torus is a small group of simple spines which persist through the caudal region after the uncini have ceased.
All of the four specimens examined are quite colorless and totally ack pigment.
The preserved worms bear a striking resemblance in form to the conventionalized classic torch with the vigorous and somewhat divided flame represented by the gill plumes, which when living and extended must form a magnificent crown.
Tube white, thick, massive, the walls often 5-6 mm.
thick and the outer diameter up to 19 mm.
The inner layers are hard and stony, the lining somewhat polished, the outer layers becoming chalky and the outer surface roughened by numerous growth lines.
The older parts make several irregular open coils beneath and around stones, the newer portions extending freely horizontally into the water, in one case to a distance of 145 mm.
Orifice perfectly terete, smooth, polished and thin.
The type (No.
79, Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
), together with the tube and two other worms, were collected for the Academy at Pacific Grove, near Monterey Bay, at a depth of 40 fathoms, by Prof. Harold Heath.
A single example appears in the Stanford University collection, and was taken by a Chinese fisherman on a red-cod line in the vicinity of Monterey Bay on February 20, 1902.
Several species of Protula have been described from the Pacific, and it is possible that P. atypha Bush or some of the other smaller species may be the young of this, but they have far fewer branchial rachises.
Indeed this species departs from typical members of the genus in the large number of rachises and complexity of the gill-bearers or bases.
Serpula Columbiana Johnson.
Serpula columbiana Johnson, Proc.
Bos.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist., XXIX, pp.
432, 433; PI.
19, figs.
199-204.
"Lighthouse Point," vicinity of Monterey Bay, in a big tide pool, June 28, 1904.
Three medium-sized specimens with portions of tubes.
The operculum is more slender and has a more finely serrated margin than the one figured by Johnson.
One counted had 140 serrations and ribs and 38 pairs of branchial rachises.
HERMELLID^J.
Sabellaria californica Pewkes (Plate IX, figs.
66a and b).
Sabellaria Californica Fewkes, Bull.
Essex Inst., XX (1S89), pp.
130-132; PI.
VII, figs.
3 and 4.
Only two specimens from San Diego are contained in the collection.
In the vicinity of Monterey Bay the species appears to be more abundant, specimens being present from "Lighthouse Point," June 28, 1904; "big tide pool," June 20, 1905, and Delmonte wharf, dredged July 12, 1904.
The degree of pigmentation differs greatly, some being pale, others deep brown, the latter type strongly prevailing.
This species is readily distinguished from the next by the character of the opercular spines, which, with the exception of those of the concealed inner series, are opaque, dark brown or black.
The exposed parts of the outer series are erect, of the inner and middle series recumbent, whereas in S. cementarium the yellow spines of all three series are more or less erect, those of the middle series being very prominently so.
The exposed parts of both the inner and middle series of this species are placed at right angles to the slender stem or tendon.
The long, pick-like spines of the middle series (fig.
66a) are very hard and the pointed, slightly hooked tips frequently interdigitate and cross in the middle, completely concealing the inner whorl.
The latter (fig.
66o) are much more delicate, flattened, yellow, somewhat chaff-like structures, the divided and densely fringed tips of which often embrace the ends of the middle series of spines.
The tubes of this species Fewkes describes as forming great masses of agglutinated sand grains and shell fragments in the caverns of wave-worn cliffs.
Those of S. cementarium, so far as known, occur singly or in small groups attached to shells and stones.
Which one of these species, if either, was described by Baird under the name of S. saxicava it is impossible to determine from the brief description.
So far as it goes the description fails to fit either, and it seems probable that a third species is represented on this coast.
Sabellaria cementarium Moore.
Sabellaria cementarium Moore, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1906, pp.
24S253; PI.
XII, figs.
45-51.
Two specimens among S. californica from "big tide pool," Monterey Bay, June 20, 1905.
Explanation of Plates VII, VIII, IX.
Plate VII.
— Trypanosyllis intermedia — figs.
1 and 2.
Fig.
1.
— End of seta from somite X, X 360.
Fig.
2.
— Same from somite L, X 360.
Phyllodoce medipapittata — figs.
3 and 4.
Fig.
3.
— Parapodium from somite X, X 24.
Fig.
4.
— Seta from somite XXV, X 360.
Eunice paloloides — figs.
5-7.
Fig.
5.
— Compound seta from somite C, X 440.
Fig.
6.
— Ventral view of mandibles, X 9.
Fig.
7.
— Dorsal view of maxillae, X 9.
Marphysa stylobranchiata — figs.
8-12.
Fig.
8.
— Simple acute seta from somite XXV, X 250.
Fig.
9.
— Simple pectiniform seta from same, X 440.
Fig.
10.
— Compound seta from same, X 440.
Fig.
11.
— Mandibles from ventral side, X 24 Fig.
12.
— Maxillse from dorsum, X 24.
Marphysa californica — figs.
13-20.
Fig.
13.
— Simple seta from dorsal portion of upper tuft of XXV, X 250.
Fig.
14a and b.
— Two forms of simple pectiniform setse from somite XC, X 440.
Fig.
15.
— Compound seta with appendage of moderate length from somite XXV, X 360.
Fig.
16.
— Hooded crochet from somite C, X 360.
Fig.
17.
— Ventral view of mandibles, X 9.
Fig.
IS.
— Dorsal view of right mandible, X 9.
Plate VIII.
— Marphysa californica.
Fig.
19.
— Dorsal view of maxillcc of left side in normal relation, X 9.
Fig.
20.
— Dorsal view of right maxillae partly separated, X 9.
Drilonereis nuda — figs.
21-23.
Fig.
21.
— Parapodium C, anterior face, X 83.
Fig.
22.— Seta from middle of same, X 360.
Fig.
23.
— Dorsal view of jaws, X 24.
Stauronereis moniloceras — figs.
24-29.
Fig.
24.
— Compound seta from parapodium XXV, X 440.
Fig.
25.
— Tip of a coarser simple seta from XXV, X 600.
Fig.
26.
— Ventral view of mandibles, X 24.
Pig 27.
— Anterior (a) and posterior (6) maxilla; of outer series, X S3.
Fig.
28.
— Anterior maxilla of middle series, X S3.
Fig.
29.
— Anterior (a) and middle (6) maxillae of inner series, X S3.
Aricia johnsoni — figs.
30-33.
Fig.
30.
— Tip of stout neuropodial seta from somite X, X 600.
Fig.
31.
— Portion of slender neuropodial seta from somite L, X 600.
Fig.
32.
— Optical section of a portion of a notopodial seta from somite L, X 600.
Fig.
33.
— End of a furcate notopodial seta from somite C, X 600.
Naineris robusta — figs.
34-37.
Fig.
34.
— Stout neuropodial seta from somite XXV, X 250.
Fig.
35.
— Slender neuropodial from same, X 250.
Fig.
36.
— Face (a) and profile (6) views of a portion of a capillary notopodial seta from somite C, X 600.
Fig.
37.
— Two furcate notopodial seta?
from somite C, X 360.
Naineris longa — figs.
38-42.
Fig.
38.
— Stout neuropodial seta from posterior series of somite XX, X 250.
Fig.
39.
— Slender neuropodial seta from anterior series of somite XX, X 250.
Fig.
40.
— Notopodial seta from somite XX, X S3.
Fig.
41.
— Neuropodial spine from posterior series of a middle somite, X 250.
Fig.
42.
— Furcate notopodial seta from middle region, X 360.
Plate IX.
— Fig.
43.
— Tharyx multifilis — Anterior end of cotype, X 9.
Fig.
44.
— -Dodecaceria pacifica — Neuropodial spine from somite LXXV, X 250.
Pista elongala — figs.
45-47.
Figs.
45-47.
— Uncini from somites V, XIV and XXV respectively, X 250.
Pista alata — figs.
48-51.
Fig.
48.
— Limbate seta from somite XV, X 250.
Figs.
49-51.
— Uncini from somite V, XV and XXX respectively, X 250.
Polycirrus cal ifomicus— figs.
52, 53.
Fig.
52.— Uncinus from XX, X 440.
Fig.
53 —Uncinus from XXXV, X 440.
Fig.
54.
— Polycirrus sp.
— Anterior uncinus, X 440.
Fig.
55.
— Notomastus tenuis — Anterior abdominal crochet, X 440.
Fig.
56.
— Eunotomastus gordiodes — Neuropodial crochet from somite XXV, X 360.
Fig.
57.
— Dasybranchus giganteus — Corrected figure of crochet, X 360.
Fig.
58.
— Dasybranchus glabrus — Neuropodial crochet from somite XXV, X 360.
Fig.
59.
— Sclerocheilus pacificus — Quarter view of a posterior furcate seta, X 440.
Trophonia capulata — figs.
60, 61.
Fig.
60.
— End of neuropodial seta from somite XXV, X -50.
Fig.
61.
— Notopodial seta of same, X 56.
Flabelligera commensalis — figs.
62, 63.
Fig.
62.
— Collar seta, X 56; a, portion of same, X 250; b, distal end of a sensory papilla from collar, X 56.
Fig.
63.
— Neuropodial hook from somite XXV, X S3.
Protula superba — figs.
64, 65.
Fig.
64.
— Shorter limbate seta from somite VIII, X 56.
Fig.
65.
— Uncinus from somite XXV, X 360.
Sabellaria calif ornica — figs.
66a and b.
Fig.
66a.
— Palea of middle series of operculum, X 33.
Fig.
666.
— Same of inner series X 33.
May 4.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
■ Sixty-five persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled "The Vegetation of the Salt Marshes and of the Salt and Freshwater Ponds of Northern Coastal New Jersey," by John W. Harshberger, Ph.D. (April 24).
The deaths of Charles Hartshorne, October 30, 1908, and of Dr. Joseph Thomas, January 28, 1909, members, were announced.
Mr. Stewardson Brown made a communication on a botanical trip to the headwaters of the Saskatchewan and Athabasca Rivers, British Columbia.
(No abstract.)
May 18.
Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair.
Forty-one persons present.
The presentation of a paper entitled "The Occurrence of Bufo columbiensis East of the Rocky Mountains," by Robert T. Young (May 5), was reported by the Publication Committee.
The death of Dr. C. N. Peirce, a member of the Council, May 15, was announced.
Prof. Gilbert Van Ingen made a communication on the so-called Clinton If on Ore of Bloomsburg, Penna.
(No abstract.)
Mr. Edgar T. Wherry spoke of the silicified woods of the New Red.
(No abstracts.)
Scolithus linearis Burrows with Orifice Complete.
— Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman remarked that Scolithus linearis, so abundant at many places in the Pennsylvania Cambrian quartzite, was long supposed to be a fucoid plant; and even so late as thirty years ago was in a wellknown valuable text-book called a plant, though at least fifteen years earlier it had been correctly given as a worm-burrow in Dana's Manual, where it was said to be common in the Potsdam sandstone.
Walcott later found it to be Cambrian; and said, in 1890, he had never seen it in the classical Potsdam.
Specimens were met with during a field excursion of the Mineralogical and Geological Section on October 17, 1908, which fully demonstrated with remarkable clearness that the Scolithus linearis is a worm-burrow in the sand of a sea-beach.
In one of Mr. Bean's Cambrian quartzite quarries, called by him the Davis quarry, at the eastern end of the North Valley Hill and at three-quarters of a mile southwest of Valley Forge, many burrows of Scolithus linearis were found ; and on one small slab, with burrows, numerous little circular ridges were instantly recognized by Mr. F. J. Keeley as the crater-shaped orifices of Scolithus holes precisely like those of sand-burrowing worms to be seen on our present sea-beaches at Atlantic City and elsewhere (Plate X).
The highly interesting and useful, perhaps hitherto unique slab, 5J X 6J inches, was presented to the Academy by the finder, Mr. Alan G. Smith.
It is well, however, to bear in mind, that further quarrying may, of course, disclose other equally perfect specimens that originated on the same ancient sea-beach.
A somewhat similar burrow with a rather complete orifice was found by the late Ellis Clark "in the Siluro-Cambrian limestone of Lehigh County, about a quarter of a mile north of Helf rich's Spring:" and is described by Prof. Frederick Prime in Report D2, p. 79, of the State Geological Survey, 1878.
The fossil was submitted to Dr. Otto Torell, Director of the Geological Survey of Sweden, and at once recognized by him as belonging to his genus Monocraterion, and given the specific name of lesleyi.
The genus is closely allied to Scolithus, but the straight tube "gradually expands at the top into a funnelshaped cavity, corresponding to a like protuberance in the animal."
The smaller part of the tube is larger than our Scolithus; and in one specimen is three-eighths of an inch in diameter, with the funnel expanding, within a length of half an inch, to an inch or more in diameter.
The following were ordered to be published : THE OCCURRENCE OF BUFO COLUMBIENSIS EAST OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.
BY ROBERT T. YOUNG.
High mountain chains, especially those whose crests extend above timber line, are more or less efficient barriers to the spread of animals.
This is more particularly so in the case of species which do not migrate easily from place to place.
The capture of Bufo columbiensis on the eastern slope of the Continental Divide in Colorado is, therefore, of some interest.
In August, 1902, I obtained a specimen of this toad on the eastern slopes of the Arapahoe Peaks, about 28 km.
west of Boulder, Colo., at an altitude of about 3,100 m., and it has since been reported to me by Prof. Beardsley, of the Colorado State Normal School, from the eastern slope of the mountains west of Greeley.
Cope 1 gives this species as a characteristic of the Pacific district of the Western sub-region of the Medicolumbian region, included in the Transition of Merriam.
2 My records, however, show it to occur in the Hudsonian zone, far above the upper limit of the Transition, where it has doubtless migrated from its original habitat.
There are several passes in northern Colorado over the Continental Divide which cross the mountains below timber line, affording possible paths of migration for toads from the western to the eastern slope.
Further observations on the distribution of this species on both slopes of the mountains, taken from year to year, would doubtless be of interest as affording some data for a determination of the conditions and rate of migration of toads.
1 The Geographical Distribution of Batrachia and Reptilia in North America, Am.
Nat., XXX, 886-902 and 1003-1026.
2 Laws of Temperature Control of the Geographic Distribution of Terrestrial Animals and Plants, Nat.
Geog.
Mag., VI, 229-238.
ON THE SPINNERETS, CRIBELLUM, COLULUS, TRACHEJE AND LUNG BOOKS OF ARANEADS.
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR.
This paper presents observations on the ontogeny of the organs mentioned in the title, together with notes on the anatomy of the cribellum and colulus and with certain considerations on the broader morphological relations of these various organs.
The embryos of the spiders examined were killed in Carnoy's fluid (absolute alcohol, chloroform and glacial acetic acid in equal parts, with corrosive sublimate to saturation), an excellent fixative that makes it possible to cut with ease good series of paraffine sections; it has the disadvantage of frequently producing an extra ovat of yolk in the earlier stages.
After fixation and hardening the egg membranes are readily removed with needles.
In order to secure good surface views of the abdomen after the stage of reversion it is best to cut off the cephalothorax, and with a knife to remove a considerable portion of the abdomen itself so as to allow the stain (preferably Delafield's hsematoxyline) to penetrate evenly.
The adult spinning organs with the cribellum or colulus are best examined in balsam after dehydration and clearing, and after the dorsal half of the abdomen has been cut away.
Of Theridium tepidariorum and Loxosceles rufescens I secured accurately timed stages by breeding females in captivity.
The material of Theridium was collected by me at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, and thai of Loxosceles, Evagrus and Filistata hiberncdis at Austin, Texas.
I am obliged to Mr. Nathan Banks for the determination of these species.
1.
Colulus, Cribellum and Spinnerets.
The first question to be taken up is the matter of the morphological relations of the colulus and cribellum to the spinnerets.
According to the classification of Simon (1892) two main groups of the Aranese are distinguished: the Aranese theraphosse and the Aranese verse.
The former include the families Liphistiidae, Aviculariidse and Atypiclse; of these the first are unique among all spiders in the possession of four pairs of true spinnerets (mammillse), while most Aviculariidse possess only two pairs/ and the Atypidse (the genus Brachybothrium excepted) possess three pairs.
Almost all the Aranese verse have three pairs of spinnerets.
2 These discrepancies in number make it somewhat difficult to homologize the pairs of different groups, a difficulty briefly mentioned by Stevenson (1908).
The three pairs of spinnerets found in most of the Aranea?
verse are named in antero-posterior order: the anterior (inferior), the median, and the posterior (superior).
Between the spinnerets of the anterior pair may be placed either a cribellum or a colulus, both of which are absent in the Theraphosse.
The cribellum was discovered by Blackwall (1839), and has been most thoroughly described by Bertkau (1882) as a small transverse plate, sometimes halved by a median carina, this plate provided with the very numerous minute pores which are the openings of multicellular spinning glands, and the spinning plate enclosed in a chitinous frame.
In species possessing it the fourth pair of metatarsi are each provided with a row of recurved hairs, called the calamistrum and also dicovered by Blackwall; the latter is used as a comb to draw out the silk issuing from the cribellum — an operation that can be clearly seen in the larger species of Filistata, though it is performed with great rapidity.
In mature males the cribellum is more or less rudimentary, for which Bertkau offers the valid explanation that adult males do not spin snares.
Blackwall and Bertkau correctly interpreted the cribellum as a modified and fused pair of spinnerets, while Thorell (1870), who called it the "inframamillary organ," argued against such a comparison, though without cogent reasons.
The colulus or hypopygium (Menge, 1843) is a conical projection or small tubercle occupying approximately the place of the cribellum in some of the families of the Aranese verse which do not possess the cribellum.
It has no spinning glands and there is no calamistrum associated with it.
Menge compared it with a rudimentary cribellum, but Bertkau argued that the colulus is a simple integumentary fold representing the region between tracheal stigma and cribellum.
To decide with which of the three pairs of spinnerets of most Aranese the two pairs of most Aviculariidse correspond, I have examined some 1 The exceptions are the genera Hexathele and Scotinctcus with a third (most anterior) pair of very small spinnerets; and Anisa pis and Diplothele with only one pair.
2 According to Simon, I.e., less than three pairs are exhibited by the following: the Hadrotarsidae, Palpimanidse (except Huttonia) , the Zodariid genera Lutica, Hermipus, Mediums, and the Archseid Mecysmauchenius — these named genera having only one pair.
early stages of the Aviculariid Evagrus — this being to my knowledge the first account of the embryology of any Theraphosid.
The earliest stage possessing extremities found is shown in fig.
28, Plate XIV, a lateral view.
Next to the head lobe is found the cheliceron (Chel.
), then the pedipalp (Pcd.
), then the four pairs of thoracal legs (L. 1L. 4).
The abdomen is remarkable in possessing only two segments (1, 2), whereas in other spiders at a corresponding stage the abdomen would be richly segmented, and in having a huge caudal lobe (C. L.) projecting forward.
The next stage available is that of fig.
29, a ventral view of the abdomen: the two pairs of lung books (Pul.)
have formed, the nerve ganglia (N. C.) are clearly marked, and there are indications of three pairs of spinnerets.
Of the latter the anterior (A.
Sp.)
are only faintly marked thickenings, and evidently belong to the fourth abdominal segment; the median spinnerets (ill.
Sp.)
are rounded projections just median to and in the same plane with the largest posterior spinnerets (P.
Sp.
), therefore outgrowths of the fifth segment.
Three successive later stages, shown in figs.
30-32 respectively, show that the anterior spinnerets have disappeared and that it is those of the fifth segment, the median and the posterior, that persist into the adult.
Thus the fourth segment, as shown clearly in figs.
30 and 31, produces no respiratory organs, but originates a pair of rudimentary spinnerets that subsequently disappear.
The two pairs of spinnerets of Evagrus, and of probably also other Aviculariids with that number, correspond to the median and posterior spinnerets of those araneads with three pairs; but the development shows that Evagrus retains in the embryo a slight trace of the anterior pair.
This homology has been already suggested by Simon, on the basis of the relative position of the parts in the adult.
In the next place we may consider the colulus, an organ that has received only the scantiest attention.
It may be best studied in Sicariids where it attains its greatest size, and the following account applies to the genus Loxosceles.
In an adult individual the form and position of the colulus is shown on ventral view in fig.
26, PI.
XIII.
It is an unpaired conical projection (Col.) between the anterior spinnerets (A.
Sp.
), its base confluent with their bases and at some distance behind the tracheal stigma (T. St.).
The transverse line in the figure which crosses it from left to right represents the border of a skin-fold just dorsal to it and to the spinnerets, and this fold is deeply indented in the median line.
Its free apex is directed ventro-caudad; its surface bears simple hairs like those on the ventral surface of the abdomen, and the small circles indicate the insertion points of these hairs.
A median section of it is represented in fig.
25, where the apex is at the left and the dorsal border uppermost.
It is covered by a cuticula (Cut.
), which is less thick than that of the adjacent body surface, beneath which is a hypodermis (Hyp.)
considerably thicker than that of the rest of the abdomen.
The interior of the organ is a blood-space (Bl.
Cav.
), shown by stippling, containing neither glands nor muscles, though muscles insert near its base.
The colulus is equally developed in both sexes.
Thus it is a simple integumentary extension with a large axial blood cavity.
An organ of its volume must surely fulfill some important function.
Its thickened hypodermis might suggest sensory nature.
But I think it may be more likely a supplementary respiratory organ, for which the combination of relatively thin cuticula and vascular space would speak, and furthermore the trachese are relatively poorly developed in this species.
In Peucetia (Oxyopid) and Lathrodectus (Theridiid) it is about twice as long as broad, shorter and relatively broader in Dysderids and Argiopicls.
But in the Agalenids I have found the most interesting relations : in Tegenaria derhamii it is a plate about twice as broad as long, in Hahnia bimaculata a transverse plate eight times as broad as its antero-posterior length, while in Agelena ncevia there are a pair of small plates completely separated in the mid-line by a little more than their diameter and inserted well anterior to the roots of the anterior spinnerets.
The last case is interesting, for it exhibits the colulus in a distinctly paired condition, the first case of such a relation yet known.
We have next to consider the ontogeny of colulus and spinnerets.
Salensky (1871) first proved that the appendages of the fourth and fifth abdominal appendages become the spinnerets.
He found the fourth appendages originate the anterior spinnerets, the fifth the posterior, and that the median spinnerets "do not develop from the abdominal feet, but appear between them" (I cite from Jaworowski, for I cannot read the original Russian).
This origin of the anterior and posterior spinnerets has been confirmed by Locy (1886), Morin (1887), Kishinouye (1890) and Korschelt (1892), while Barrois (1878), Balfour (1880) and Schimkewitsch (1887) erroneously held that the embryonic appendages disappear and that spinnerets are new formations.
The most detailed and satisfactory account is that of Jaworowski (1895) of Trochosa.
He found that after reversion each appendage of the fourth and fifth abdominal segments is bilobed, consisting of an outer sacculus (exopodite) and inner sacculus (endopodite) ; on the fourth segment the exopodites become the anterior spinnerets and the endopodites form a "rudimentary cribellum" (more strictly, colulus) that later disappears; on the fifth segment the exopodites become the posterior spinnerets, and the endopodites the median spinnerets.
Wallstabe (1908) also found, in Agelena, that the median spinnerets arise by splitting off from the posterior pair.
I am able on embryos of Loxosceles to essentially confirm the account of Jaworowski and to trace the colulus to its adult condition.
Fig.
17, PL XIII, represents that stage before reversion, when the maximum number of abdominal appendages is present, and there are seen to be six pairs of them, on segments 2 to 7 inclusive.
The two most posterior pairs are the smallest and are temporary, for in the next stage, figs.
18, 19, of the beginning reversion they have disappeared and only the four anterior pairs persist.
3 Later, fig.
20, the third and fourth pairs of these appendages become the largest.
The process of reversion brings them close together in the mid-line, and an interesting and decisive condition is exhibited in the stage of fig.
21.
The fourth pair of appendages (P.
Sp.)
are approximated, and on the median side of each is an elongated thickening of the hypodermis, the first indication of the median spinnerets (M.
Sp.).
Between the third pair of appendages (A.
Sp.)
there is an undivided, so unpaired, thickening, the primordium of the colulus (Col.).
My observations differ mainly from those of Jaworowski in finding the colulus to be unpaired at the start, and in finding that the colulus and the median spinnerets behind it do not arise as saccular endopodites of the embryonic appendages, but as thickenings immediately mesial to the appendages.
This is a rather important difference, for Jaworowski's description would indicate a cleft condition of these appendages, such as is found in Crustacea, while I do not find such a condition.
In Loxosceles the colulus and the median spinnerets would seem not to be parts of the appendages, but immediately contiguous to them.
Figs.
22-24 show successive later stages, with lengthening of the three pairs of spinnerets and of the unpaired colulus, as well as the gradual extension forward of the largest pair of spinning glands.
The colulus, accordingly, arises as a hypodermal thickening between the anterior spinnerets, and the median spinnerets from a pair of thick3 In the stage of figs.
18 and 19 there are eleven well-marked abdominal segments exclusive of the caudal lobe.
The largest number yet described for araneads is twelve, which with the seven of the cephalothorax makes a total of nineteen.
The three most posterior of them together with the caudal lobe constitute a projecting postabdomen, such as has been described for Pholcus bv Claparede (1862) and Schimkewitsch (1887); this may be compared with that of Evagrus, fig.
28, PI.
IV.
enings between the posterior spinnerets.
The only difference in Loxosceles is that the colulus has an unpaired origin; but this difference does not hold in all cases, for in Trochosa ( Jaworowski) the colulus has a paired origin, and we have seen that in Agelena the colulus is a paired structure in the adult.
Evidently colulus and median spinnerets are homodynamous.
I have examined the cribellum in Filistata, Hyptiotes, Uloborus and Dictyna.
In the adult female of Filistata there is found a transversely oval plate between the anterior spinnerets and somewhat anterior to them.
This plate (fig.
34, Plate XIV) shows a pair of spinning plates (Cr.
PL), provided with numerous fine pores, and these spinning plates are set in the much larger chitinous frame ; on the anterior portion of this frame are inserted hairs (their insertion points indicated by the small circles), which hairs are plumose like these of the venter and differ from them only in their much smaller size.
These relations are essentially such as Bertkau and others have described.
But an important relation seems to have been heretofore entirely overlooked.
The paired spinning plates, the cribellum proper, are only the uncovered free surfaces of a pair of appendages, the remaining portion of which is sunk below the chitinous frame.
Thus when one examines on a cleared balsam mount the cribellum from the ventral surface, one sees at a higher focus of the microscope only the frame and the spinning plates ; but on deeper focus one finds a column of delicate parallel spinning tubules, too fine to be represented on the scale of our drawing, extending from each spinning plate to the anterior edge of the frame.
The lateral boundaries of these columns or appendages are shown in fig.
34 by the lines extending forward (upward) from the spinning plates (Cr.
PL) to the upper border of the frame.
Further, each spinning plate shows a slight line of division at its middle, from which point of indentation a line extends some distance forward; this subdivision is probably due to the presence of a muscle (as it is certainly in some other species), though I could not clearly recognize a muscle.
In other words, the spinning plates are merely the free, uncovered apices of a pair of spinnerets, the greater region of which lie covered by the cuticular frame.
Or the relation might be represented in another way: the cribellum of Filistata is a pair of spinnerets mesially approximated, their glands opening distally (on the spinning plates), and across and around these spinnerets has developed a cuticular frame.
This interesting relation in Filistata is further explained by a study of the embryo shown in fig.
33, PI.
XIV; no one has previously described any developmental stage of the cribellum, for what Jaworowski described as a "rudimentary cribellum" in Trochosa was really a colulus.
Fig.
33 represents a ventral view of the abdomen shortly after reversion, and the abdominal segments are well pronounced.
The tracheal stigma (T. St.) is at the boundary of the third and fourth segments.
On the fourth segment are found the anterior spinnerets (A.
Sp.
), and between them a pair of large thickenings (Or.
), the paired primordium of the cribellum.
On the fifth segment are seen the posterior spinnerets (P.
Sp.
), and between them the median spinnerets as a pair of thickenings (M.
Sp.).
The resemblance of the cribellum to the median spinnerets at this stage is very close, each consisting of a pair of elongate ectoblastic thickenings near the mid-line; and the cribellum is even larger than the median spinnerets.
There can be no doubt in this case of the homodynamy of cribellum and median spinnerets.
Fig.
36 shows a ventral view of the cribellum of a mature female of Hyptiotes cavatus, and fig.
35 a similar view of that of Dietyna vohipis.
In both of these there is a distinct pair of muscles (M.) passing from the spinning plate (Cr.
PI.)
to the anterior edge of the cuticular frame.
In these species the spinning plate is not paired, nor yet is the deeper portion composed of the ductules paired, in which points these species appear much less primitive than Filistata.
I find the cribellum of Uloborus plumipes to be very similar to that of Hyptiotes.
In Hyptiotes the tracheal stigma (T. St.) is immediately contiguous to the frame of the cribellum, while in Dietyna (fig.
35) they are separated.
Thus we come to the conclusion that the spinnerets, colulus and cribellum all develop from the fourth and fifth abdominal segments; the anterior spinnerets and colulus or cribellum from the fourth, the median and posterior spinnerets from the fifth, as concluded by Jaworowski.
The colulus and cribeilum arise as elongate thickenings mesial from the appendages of these segments, the appendages becoming the anterior and posterior spinnerets.
Colulus and cribellum, as we have seen, are in their development homodynamous with the median spinnerets of the segment behind them.
Accordingly, colulus and cribellum arising in a similar position in corresponding segments must be considered essentially homologous organs, conformably with the view of Blackwall, whom Dahl (1901, 1904) has followed.
The case of Filistata renders it a strong probability that the colulus and cribellum correspond with the antero-median spinnerets of Liphistius.
The cribellum is a less degenerate structure than the colulus, because it still possesses spinning glands, is larger, and is more frequently paired.
20 These homologies might be shown tabularly as follows : [May, Spinnerets.
Liphistiidse.
Antero-lateral.
Aviculariidse.
Aranese verse.
Anterior.
Antero-median.
Colulus or cribellum.
Postero-lateral.
Posterior.
Posterior.
Posteromedian.
Median.
Median.
2.
Development of the Trache.e.
Locy (1886), the first to mention the development of these structures, simply states that "upon the ventral surface appear the infoldings, from which are formed the tracheae."
Schimkewitsch (1887) is mistaken in saying that Balfour (1880) demonstrated the origin of tracheae and lungs, for Balfour did not mention these organs.
Schimkewitsch briefly mentions a stage in Lijcosa before hatching where the tracheae are already branched.
Kishinouye (1890) writes: "In the basal part of the second abdominal appendage, on the interior side, another ectodermic invagination is produced.
It assumes the shape of a deeply invaginated tube and remains in this condition till after the time of hatching.
The appendage itself is not invaginated and becomes from this time gradually shorter."
Purcell (1895) states that the " entapophyses connected with the second (tracheal) pair of appendages become each drawn out into a long tube, to or near the blind, inner end of which the middle pair of endosternites is attached in the adult.
These long tubes are represented by the two large trunks which form the tracheae in the Attidae, and by the medial pair of the four trunks which compose the tracheae in most other Spiders (Agelenidae, Drassidae, Epeiridae, Lycosidae, etc.)."
4 The preceding references to the tracheae are all brief and not illustrated by figures.
Simmons (1894) goes into the subject somewhat more fully; he finds the tracheae arising before reversion behind the appendage of the third abdominal segment as a tubular, ectoblastic ingrowth, and the tube so produced to have an irregular folding of its 4 My friend Dr. Purcell's brief but important preliminary paper deals mostly with the homologies of the tracheae and entopoyhyses, on which subject he has now an extensive paper in press.
I have not considered these relations In Loxosceles I find just latero-posterior to each appendage of the four anterior abdominal pairs a thickening which appears darker than the surroundings on stained surface views, these being marked x in figs.
20-24 of PI.
XIII.
I have not determined whether these are apophyses or simple muscle insertions.
wall, resembling to some extent the primary folds of the pulmonary invagination.
After the stage of reversion he figures it as a simple tube without branching.
The most recent paper is that of Janeck (1909); he did not see the earliest stages, but describes and figures a stage shortly after hatching with the beginning of the branching, and an advanced stage after reversion.
Accordingly, no one has figured the earliest stages of the trachea 3 , and our knowledge of their development is very fragmentary.
In Loxosceles the conditions are as follows, as observed in surface views only.
In the stages of figs.
17-19, Plate XIII, the appendages of the third abdominal segment (3) are simple rounded protuberances like those of the adjacent segments.
Later, fig.
20, the appendage of the third segment becomes flatter and less distinct, and its elevated portion has taken on somewhat the shape of a quarter moon.
At the stage of fig.
21, completed reversion, no elevated appendages are found in that segment, but at its posterior edge a transverse groove circularly enlarged at each lateral corner (T. St.).
This condition persists through the stages of figs.
22 and 23, but at that of fig.
24 a pair of lateral tracheal branches, recognizable by being filled with air, and marked Tr., are growing forward from the groove.
The transverse groove is evidently the stigma leading into the vestibulum; and this stigma, developing at the posterior edge of the third segment, evidently arises behind the appendages of the segment.
In the adult a larger median and four pairs of smaller lateral tracheae extend forward from the vestibulum (fig.
27).
A better knowledge can be obtained from the study of sections which I have made of Theridium.
At the time of reversion (fig.
16, PL XII) the abdominal appendages show much the same relation as in Loxosceles, though a narrow elevated ectoblastic ridge joins the second and third abdominal appendages (£.
Ap., 3.
Ap.).
Sections of this stage (figs.
1, 2, PL XI) show the still heightened appendage (3.
Ap.)
of the third segment behind the pulmonary invagination and a distinct coelomic sac (Coel.)
appertaining to it.
But in subsequent stages (figs.
5, 7, 9) the appendage of the third segment disappears, the whole becoming flush with the remainder of the surface of that segment and without any process of invagination.
It is not until after this appendage has disappeared entirely that the tracheal invagination takes place, and evidently as in Loxosceles behind the region where that appendage was.
The first appearance of the tracheae is seen in fig.
12, PL XII ; the pulmonary stigma (P. St.) is at the posterior edge of the second segment, the tracheal (T. St.) not near this, as was the appendage of its segment, but close to the spinnerets (Sp.)
at the posterior edge of the third segment.
The stigma (T. St.) is a slight transverse groove, the trachea (TV.)
itself is a conical plug of ectoblast cells pushing into the archiccelic space between hypodermis and mesoblast (Mes.).
Successive later stages of the ectoblastic impaired ingrowth (T. St.) are shown in median section in figs.
13-15; in these stages it already shows the division into an outer vestibulum, transversely widened, from the middle of which extends forward a single tracheal trunk, all with a thin chitinous lining.
Fig.
15 is the stage of hatching, aged fifteen days, and shows just behind the stigma the still solid primordium of the colulus (Col.).
Thus the appendages of the third abdominal segment disappear entirely by merging with the circumjacent hypodermis and without forming any invagination.
Quite independent of them and at the posterior margin of the third abdominal segment arises subsequently an unpaired ectoblastic inpushing, the vestibulum, from the middle part of which grows forward a little before the time of hatching a single tracheal trunk.
I have not found any indications of folding of the tracheal wall like the pulmonary folding, such as Simmons described, and I would judge that the fold supposed by Simmons to be the trachea, represented in his fig.
8, is not a tracheal invagination at all, but merely the space dorso-posterior to the caudal lobe.
Reference may be made, in passing, to the relative position of the segments in the adult abdomen.
The pulmonary stigma marks the posterior border of the second segment, the tracheal stigma (or, in Dipneumonids, that of the second pair of lungs) the posterior border of the third segment, while the anterior and posterior spinnerets mark the posterior regions of the fourth and fifth segments respectively.
In Loxosceles the third segment comes to occupy a large portion of the venter, as shown in figs.
22-24, PI.
XIII.
In Filistata (fig.
33, PI.
XIV) and Evagrus (figs.
30-32) the third segment is relatively much smaller After the stage of reversion the first abdominal segment cannot be distinguished externally from the second, and I am inclined to think it enters mostly into the composition of the pedicel.
3.
Development of the Lung-books.
A considerable amount of work has been done upon the development of these organs since Salensky (1871) showed that they are derived from the appendages of the second abdominal segment.
Bertkau (1872) found that new lamellae are added during the growth of the spider, each new one as an invagination from the region of the lateral corner of the stigma.
Locy (1886) figured and described two rather late stages, in the earlier of which "the lungs appear as oblong plates of cells, the large oval nuclei of which are arranged in parallel rows"; ultimately there result bicellular interlamellar pillars.
Schimkewitsch (1887) described briefly a single rather late stage before hatching, the single figure of which given by him by no means proves that "the lungs of the embryo of Lycosa saccata consist of true trachea?
disposed in bundles."
Morin (1887) found the lungs to be formed from thickenings at the bases of the appendages of the second abdominal segment, these thickenings becoming the opercula, What Bruce (1887) has described as a pulmonary operculum and lung cavity seems to be nothing more, and Kishinouye has previously made the criticism, judging from his figs.
LXXIX and LXXIX, 1 than the caudal lobe at the stage of reversion and the space between it and the body wall; his account has accordingly no value.
Kishinouye (1890) found "in the basal part of the first abdominal appendage of each side, there arises an ectodermic invagination whose opening faces away from the median line.
... Of the wall of the invaginated pocket, that which faces the distal end of the appendage is much thicker than the opposite wall, filling the interior of the appendage.
The cells composing it become after awhile arranged in parallel rows.
Each two of these parallel rows adhering together produce the lamellae of the lung-book.
The external epithelium of the appendage which covers these lamellae becomes the operculum of the lung-book after it is depressed in height."
Simmons (1894) has given the fullest account up to his time, and the one most fully illustrated by figures.
He described fully the method of invagination of the first abdominal appendage, found on its inner (mesial) surface a series of folds during this process of invagination, which folds he believed become the pulmonary lamellae.
There is, however, a great hiatus between the stages of his figs.
6 and 7, and the early embryonic folds do not lie in the same position as the adult lamellae.
Purcell (1895) found that "the earliest lung-leaves appear on the exposed posterior sides of the appendages before the latter have commenced to sink below the surface into the body, and completely outside of the basal sack," and, like Simmons, he concludes these become the adult lamellae, but without tracing completely their later history.
Wallstabe (1908) says he can corroborate Simmon's results, but does not enter into details.
Jaworowski(1894) presented a full account, well illustrated, but did not describe any stage earlier than one considerably later than reversion.
He began with a stage where beneath the first abdominal appendage there is a saccular invagination, from which proceeds dorsally a tube dividing into several branches; "it is, however, clear that the so-called lungs of the spider in the embryonal condition are repeatedly branched trachea?."
These tracheal tubes ultimately disappear, and the definitive pulmonary lamellae arise from parallel outgrowths of the vestibule (Vorraum).
Finally, the latest memoir, that of Janeck (1909) on Lycosa, is the most extensive, and he had not only an excellent series of stages, but he also made use of wax reconstructions.
He describes thoroughly the infolding of the first abdominal appendage, finds that it develops a series of pronounced folds on its inner (mesial) surface, thus far essentially corroborating the observations of Simmons and Purcell, but, contrary to these writers, he finds these embryonic folds disappear.
"Especially important is the demonstration that the folds of text figure 16, which many authors refer directly to the lung-leaves, have no relation at all to the lung .
.
.
and the fold formation of these stages show themselves to be not even forerunners of the lung-leaves."
The pulmonary lamella?
arise as secondary folds from a compact lung mass.
It will be seen that there are considerable differences of opinion, out of which it is hard to reach the true state of affairs.
My observations are in entire disagreement with the conclusions of Schimkewitsch and Jaworowski, that the lungs arise as tubular tracheae, and I believe that Jaworoski misinterpreted embryonic dorso-ventral muscles.
Then neither of these authors described the earliest stages.
With Purcell, I find folds appearing upon the posterior surface of the pulmonary appendages before it invaginates ; but, in opposition to him and Simmons, and in agreement with Janeck, I find these folds are only temporary, and that the definitive lamella?
arise from a disassociated solid cell mass.
Locy, Morin and Kishinouye were correct, so far as their observations went.
In Theridium, about the stage of reversion, the pulmonary stigma (P. St., fig.
1, PI.
XI) is present as an ectoblastic invagination just behind the appendage of the second abdominal segment, and on the posterior face of this appendage are present three folds (Lam.
1).
These embryonic folds may be called the primary lamella?.
In a later stage, shown in fig.
2 (a surface view of this stage is represented in fig.
16, PI.
XII), the pulmonary stigma (P. St.) has become deeper, and the primary lamella?
(Lam.
1) more pronounced.
Later, fig.
3, the pulmonary sac or chamber has become a narrow space by the further insinking of the pulmonary appendage.
Two primary lamella?
can be still distinguished (Lam.
1) but they have become relatively smaller; fig, 4 is a section of the same appendage but to one side of the stigma, where there is a closed tube beneath the outer ectoblast formed by overgrowth in the manner described by Janeck.
Fig.
5 represents a stage still later ; the whole pulmonary appendage has become flattened down to the surface of the abdomen, the primary lamella?
{Lam.
1) are not more than two in number and only slightly pronounced, while the anterior end of the pulmonary ingrowth is growing larger in the cephalad direction.
In fig.
6, cut to one side of the stigma (so comparable with fig.
4 of an earlier stage), the anterior region of the solid ingrowth is divided into two parts, the beginning of the first two true or secondary lamellae {Lam.
2).
The slightly later stage of fig.
7 is particularly instructive.
The abdomen now makes a short angle with the cephalothorax, so that the layer of ectoblast {Ed.)
most to the left in the figure is the lining of the cephalothorax.
The pulmonary stigma {P. St.) occupies the same relative position as in fig.
5, but the pulmonary sac or cavity {P.
Cav.
), which is lined on all sides by ectoblast, has become more voluminous and anterior extensions of it lead into three secondary lamellae {Lam.
2).
There is no longer any trace of the primary lamellae.
These had become gradually shorter in the successive stages, shown in figs.
2, 3, and 5, being only faintly marked in the last.
There is no trace of them in the stage of fig.
7 ; were they present they should show just above the stigma {P. St.) on the mesial (right) side of the ectoblastic operculum.
The primary lamellae have not become the secondary lamellae {Lam.
2), for the latter are directed cephalad and arise, as we have seen, from the solid anterior portion of the pulmonary primordium.
These results are in essential agreement with those of Janeck, though in the form studied by him, Lycosa, the primary lamellae are larger and more numerous, and by the fusion of their free ends with the mesial wall of the lung cavity give rise to a series of small cavities lined by ectoblast which ultimately close up.
The primary lamellae do not become the lamellae of the adult, and, as Janeck has indicated, would seem to have no more morphological importance than the slight integumentary folds found on the mesial side of the proximal portion of the cephalothoracal appendages.
The history of the secondary or definitive lamellae is as follows.
Arising from the solid anterior region of the lung tissue, as shown in figs.
6 and 7, these lamellae become larger and more cylindrical with narrower lamina {Lam.
2, fig.
8).
Successive ones are formed from the solid mesial wall of the lung ingrowth, and in their growth they press into an archiccelic cavity (J5/.
Cav.)
between the ectoblast {Ed.)
and mesoblast {Mes.).
In fig.
9, PI.
XII, three of these secondary lamellae (Lam.
2) are shown; each contains a narrow canal communicating posteriorly with the main pulmonary cavity (P.
Cav.)
and their wall is lined by a very flattened epithelium; where the nuclei are placed there is a heightening of the cytoplasm around them, and the figure shows clearly the biserial arrangement of the nuclei, at certain intervals bicellular pillars occurring between adjacent lamellse.
The archiccelic space around these lamellse has become a vascular cavity (Bl.
Cav.
), shown by stippling.
A cross-section of the lung region of this stage is shown in fig.
10; in the vascular cavity (Bl.
Cav.)
lie the lamellse (Lam.
2) which are seen to be flattened tubes.
The last stage I have been interested to examine is that of fig.
11, one of about nine days (hatching usually takes place in the fifteenth day)Five lamellse are developed, but owing to obliquity of the section none are seen in their full length.
5 Mesial to them (to the right in the figure) there is an ectoblastic layer (Ect.
), from which further lamellse will be formed.
The relation of the bicellular pillars to the lamellse and to the blood cavity (Bl.
Cav.)
is perfectly clear.
Thus each lung-book arises in the region of the appendage of the second abdominal segment.
Immediately behind this appendage develops an ectoblastic invagination, the stigma and pulmonary chamber, and into this the appendage invaginates.
There are temporary lamellse on the posterior surface of this appendage, and these come to lie within the pulmonary chamber, but they disappear entirely and from a thickened cell mass of the anterior region of the invagination the secondary or definitive lamellse develop.
The appendage thereby forms both operculum and secondary lamellse.
4.
Genetic Relations of the Tracheae and Lung-books of Araneads.
In the Aranese theraphosse there are two pairs of lung-books and no trachese, and this is also the case in the Hypochilidse among the Aranese verse.
Nothing is known of the development of these organs in these forms, except my observation that in Evagrus the lung-books are derivations of the second and third abdominal segments.
All other Aranese verse with two exceptions have one pair of lung-books 5 It will be noted that all the drawings on Plate XI are made to the same scale, yet in some cases, as on comparison of fig.
3 with figs.
2 and 5, the parts and nuclei of one embryo may be much smaller than in another embryo of approximately the same age.
This is because there are great individual differences in the size of eggs, so of the size of the cells that compose them.
The number of cells appears to be constant for a particular stage, but the size of the cells depends upon the size of the embryo.
and an unpaired or paired (Dysderida?)
tracheal stigma; the exceptions are the Caponiida?
with four tracheal stigmata, but no lung-books, and the Pholcidae with one pair of lung-books, but with no trachea 1 or only very rudimentary ones (Lamy, 1902).
There has been much discussion as to the genetic relations of these two organs.
They have been so fully and ably compared by Lamy that it is not necessary to more than summarize his account.
Since the time of Leuckart (1849) all writers on the subject seem to conclude an essential homodynamy of lung-books and tracheae, save Berteaux (1889), who, however, reached quite an erroneous idea of the structure of the pulmonary lamella?.
But three different opinions have arisen, namely, whether the lungs are modified trachea?, the tracheae modified lungs, or both derived from a common ancestral organ.
That the lungs are modified tracheae is held by Leuckart (1849), Leydig (1855), Bertkau (1872).
Schimkewitsch (1884, 1887), Croneberg (1888), Schneider (1892), Sinclair (1892), v. Kennel (1892), Jaworowski (1894), Lamy (1902), and Janeck (1909).
That the tracheae are derived from lung-books is maintained by Lankester (1881), MacLeod (1884), Kingsley (1893), Simmons (1895), Laurie (1894), Wagner (1895) and Kishinouye (1890) — this group of naturalists being mainly influenced by the Limulus-ancestry theory.
Finally, Weissenborn (1886) and Bernard (1893) hold that lung-books and tracheae are divergent derivatives of a common ancestral organ, in the one case from tracheae of the type of Peripatus, in the other from acicular glands of Annelids.
In their adult condition lungs and trachea?
are both branched cavities lined by cuticulated h}-podermis.
In the lung-books the branches are flattened lamellae placed parallel, in the tracheae the branches are usually cylindrical ramifying tubes.
But sometimes the main tracheal trunk has no branches, and sometimes the branches are arranged in parallel bundles, all of which details have been described by Lamy; further, I have noticed in Loxosceles that the large median tracheal trunk is excessively compressed, quite as much as a pulmonary lamella.
Further, trachea?
and lung-books may replace each other in both the second and third abdominal segments.
Therefore there are no radical anatomical differences between the two.
Ontogenetically both arise as ectoblastic invaginations, and there is a vestibulum in each case.
But there are four differences in the development: (1) In the case of the lung-books the abdominal appendage invaginates and the wall of the part so invaginated bounds the main pulmonary chamber, while the external surface of the appendage becomes the operculum.
In the case of the trachea the abdominal appendage does not invaginate, but disappears by merging with the surrounding ectoblast, the trachea arises after it has disappeared, the tracheal vestibulum is not formed from this appendage, and there is no operculum.
(2) The pulmonary stigma arises immediately behind its appendage, but the tracheal stigma develops more or less behind the original position of the appendage of its segment.
(3) The pulmonary lamellse arise from a thickened solid cell mass, which is not the case with the tracheal branches.
(4) The tracheae appear somewhat later in the ontogeny.
Thus while the anatomical differences are not great the ontogenetic are considerable.
The most important difference is that the lungbooks develop from appendages.
On the basis of this particular difference we must conclude that there is no complete homodynamy between the two sets of organs, but an incomplete resemblance.
The trachea exhibits a simpler method of formation, but this in itself need speak no more for primitiveness than for degeneracy.
The present evidence does not clearly indicate which is the more primitive.
5.
LlMULUS AND THE ARACHNIDS.
To one question, however, we may take a more decided stand — that, namely, of the reference of aranead lung-books to the branchiae of Limulus.
Since Straus-Durckheim (1829) first insisted that Limulus is much more closely related to Arachnids than to Crustaceans, this view has grown steadily in support, especially in the hands of E. Van Beneden (1871), A. Milne-Edwards (1873), Barrois (1878), Lankester (1881), Patten (1890) and Kingsley (1893).
And there can be little question that Limulus and the Arachnids are related, from the correspondence in segmentation, arrangement and number of appendages, endosternal and entapophysial structures, central nervous and vascular systems and other organs, all of which have been carefully compared by Lankester and Kingsley.
The principal difference between the two has been considered the respiratory organs, and Lankester sought to obviate this by reasoning that the lung-books of Arachnids arose by the invagination of lamelligerous branchial appendages, and that the tracheae are in their turn modifications of lung-books.
This view seemed to be confirmed by the accounts of the development of arachnidan lung-books as given for spiders by Kishinouye, Purcell and Simmons, and for the scorpion by Brauer (1895).
6 6 Brauer's study did not determine the first origin of the pulmonary lamellse , tor there is a gap between the stages shown in his text figs.
156 and c. Simmons insisted on the following points: (1) that primary folds appear very early on the posterior surface of the invaginating pulmonary appendage of the spider, resembling very closely in position the gill-leaf development of Limulus as described by Kingsley ; and (2) that such folds become the pulmonary lamellae of the adult spider.
But Janeck and I demonstrate that these primary lamellae of the spider are only temporary, with probably no more significance than the folds on the mesial surfaces of the cephalothoracal appendages, and they certainly do not become the definitive lamellae of the lung-book.
The truth is that the secondary pulmonary plates of the spider do not arise from folds on the outer surface of an appendage, but in a different position from a solid cell mass after the appendage has invaginated.
Therefore there is nothing in the ontogeny of the lung-books of spiders similar to the development of the gills of the Xiphosura, beyond that they are both connected with abdominal appendages; consequently no embryological ground for deriving the lung-books from gills.
Further, objections of a theoretical nature may also be made against the derivation of the lung-books from gills.
First, the direct change of a water-breathing organ into an air-breathing one would be almost without parallel; at least I cannot recall any instance of this kind in animals.
Second, granted that Limulus is genetically related with arachnids, a view to which I subscribe, what reason have we for assuming that Limulus is the more primitive form?
The only good anatomical argument for this view is that Limulus retains through life six pairs of abdominal appendages, and also a pair of nephridia.
The general reason for the primitiveness of Limulus is its marine habitude, with the assumption that the ancestors of most groups must have originated in the seas.
The latter assumption lacks all solid basis, and has been opposed by Simroth (1891) and myself (1906).
But the true arachnids are essentially terrestrial, quite as much as the insects are, and though a few have taken to aquatic existence, such as the Hydrachnids and Argyroneta, all of them breathe atmospheric air.
Further, true araneads occurred in the Carboniferous, in times as early as the first fossil traces of Limuloids, while terrestrial scorpions existed in the Silurian.
These facts would indicate that the true arachnids originated on the land.
It would, accordingly, seem to me that if Limulus be related to the arachnid stock, and this seems well established, that the former represents a line of descent that has taken secondarily to aquatic life ; and for this view would speak also its existence in shoal waters, and its behavior in laying its eggs close to the land.
The position I have taken is in direct opposition to the general one as voiced by Korschelt and Heider, "that the Arachnida have developed from the Paleostraca by adaptation to land life."
6.
The Taxonomic Rank of the Theraphos.e.
By quite general consent arachnologists consider the Aranese theraphosse to be more primitive than the Aranese vera?.
I do not know whether this conclusion has at any time been critically discussed, and in the present place I shall touch on it only briefly and tentatively, for I feel my knowledge of the families of spiders is too deficient for me to attempt to make any positive decision.
The Theraphosse differ from the Aranese verse in having the chelicera directed forward instead of downward, in possessing no trachese, and in having no maxillary plates on the pedipalp (except in certain Atypidse).
We cannot say whether the character of the position of the chelicera is more primitive in the first case than the other.
The lack of maxillary plates might or might not be due to degeneration, and we have seen that there is no good basis for deciding whether lung-books are more primitive than trachese.
Thus these anatomical differences in themselves furnish no good answer to our question.
The Liphistiids in their general structure appear decidedly primitive, with their four pairs of functional spinnerets and their segmented abdominal terga; yet Simon (1908) in his recent description of the male of Liphistius birmanicus has shown that the palpal bulbus is much more complex than in other Theraphosids.
Excluding the Liphistiidse, the other families of the Theraphosse, namely, the Aviculariidse and the Atypidse, would seem to be degenerate in one respect, that of the spinnerets.
For they possess neither colulus nor cribellum, and almost all the Aviculariids lack also the anterior spinnerets.
The great length and appendage-like appearance of the posterior spinnerets in the Aviculariids might not be a primitive character, but be due to compensatory growth on account of the loss of the anterior spinnerets.
The general small size and compact grouping of the eyes might well be the result of the usual tubicolous mode of life.
Further, there are certain Aranese verse (such as Filistata) which show the male copulatory bulbus less complex than in the Theraphosse.
In the loss of the spinnerets of the fourth abdominal segment, in the small size of the eyes, and in the occasional great volume of the body the Aviculariidae at least would seem to be considerably modified.
They might well be considered a modified branch which has to great extent replaced spinning by burrowing.
Few of them construct true snares, and then only simple ones.
Thus they might stand in somewhat the same relation to the Araneae verse, as the Ratitae do to the Carinatse among birds.
While this hypothesis of the systematic rank of the Aviculariidae may appear reasonable, we can hardly at the present time decide the rank of the Liphistiidse and Atypidse, or indeed decide whether the Theraphosse represent a homogeneous group.
Literature List.
Balfour, F. M. 1880.
Notes on the Development of the Araneina.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci.
(2), 20.
Barrois, J.
1S78.
Sur la developpement des Araignees.
Journ.
Anat.
et Physiol.
14.
Beneden, E. van.
1871.
De la Place que les Limules doivent occuper dans la classification des Arthropodes, etc.
Ann.
Soc.
Entom.
Belgique, 15.
Bernard, H. M. 1893.
Additional Notes on the Origin of the Tracheae from Setiparous Glands.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), 11.
Berteatjx, L. 1889.
Le poumon des Arachnides.
La Cellule, 5.
Bertkatj, P. 1872.
Ueber die Respirationsorgane der Araneen.
Arch.
Naturgesch., 38.
Idem,.
1882.
Ueber das Cribellum und Calamistrum.
Ibid., 48.
Blackwall, J.
1839.
On the number and structure of the mammulae employed by Spiders in the process of spinning.
Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, 18.
Brauer, A.
1895.
Beitriige zur Kenntnis der Entwicklungsgeschichte des Skorpions.
2.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool., 59.
Bruce, A. T. 1S87.
Observations on the Embryology of Insects and Arachnids.
Baltimore.
Claparede, E. 1862.
Recherches sur revolution des Araignees.
Utrecht.
Croneberg, A.
1888.
Beitrag zur Keimtniss des Baues der Pseudoscorpione.
Bull.
Soc.
Imp.
Natural.
Moscou (2), 2.
Dahl, F. 1901.
Ueber den Werth des Cribellums und Calamistrums, etc.
Sitzungsber.
Ges.
Naturf.
Fr., Berlin.
Idem.
1904.
Ueber das System der Spinnen (Araneae).
Sitzungsber.
Ges.
Natur-forsch.
Fr.
Berlin.
Janeck, R. 1909.
Die Entwicklung der Blattertracheen und der Tracheen bei den Spinnen.
Jena.
Zeit.
44.
Jaworowski, A.
1894.
Die Entwicklung der sogennannten Lungen bei den Arachniden, etc.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool., 58.
Idem.
1895.
Die Entwickelung des Spmnapparates bei Trochosa singoriensis Laxm., etc.
Jena.
Zeit., 30.
Kennel, J. v. 1892.
Die Verwandtschaftsverhultnisse der Arthropoden.
Schriften Natur.
Ges.
Univ.
Dorpat, 6.
Kingsley, J. S. 1893.
The Embryology of Limulus.
Part 2.
Journ.
Morph., S. Kishinouye, K. 1890.
On the Development of Araneina.
Journ.
Coll.
Sci.
Japan, 4.
Korschelt, E., und K. Heider.
1892.
Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Entwicklungsgeschichte der wirbellosen Thiere.
2.
Jena.
Lamy, E. 1902.
Recherches anatomiques sur les trachees des Araignees.
These.
Paris.
Lankester, E. R. 1881.
Limulus an Arachnid.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci.
(2), 21.
Laurie, M. 1894.
On the Morphology of the Pedipalpi.
Journ.
Linn.
Soc, London, 25.
Leuckart, E. 1849.
Ueber den Bau und die Bedeutung der sog.
Lungen bei den Arachniden.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool., 1.
Leydig, F. 1855.
Zum feineren Bau der Arthropoden.
Muller's Arch.
Locy, W. A.
1886.
Observations on the Development of Agelena nsevia.
Bull.
Mus.
Zool.
Harvard, 12.
MacLeod, J.
1S84.
Recherches sur la structure et la signification de l'appareil respiratoire des Arachnides.
Arch, de Biol., 5.
Menge, A.
1843.
Ueber die Lebensweise der Arachniden.
Neueste Schr.
Naturf.
Ges.
Danzig, 4 Milne-Edwards, A.
1873.
Recherches sur l'Anatomie des Limules.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
(5), 17.
Montgomery, T. H., Jr. 1906.
The Analysis of Racial Descent in Animals.
New York.
Morin, J.
1887.
Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Spinnen.
Biol.
Centralbl., 6.
Patten.
W. 1S90.
On the Origin of Vertebrates from Arachnids.
Quart.
Journ.
Micr.
Sci.
(2), 31.
Purcell, F. 1895.
Note on the Development of the Lungs, Entapophyses, Trachea^ and Genital Ducts in Spiders.
Zool.
Anz., 18.
Salensky, W. 1871.
(Development of Araneads.
Russian.)
Sapiski Ges.
Naturf.
Kiew.
32.
Schimkewitsch, W. 1884.
Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Araneen.
Zool.
Anz., 7.
Idem.
1887.
Etude sur le developpement des Araignees.
Arch, de Biol.. 56.
Schneider, A.
1892.
Melanges arachnologiques.
Tablettes Zoologiques, Poitiers, 2.
Simmons, O. L. 1894.
Development of the Lungs of Spiders.
Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
(2), 48.
Tufts College Studies, 2.
Simon, E. 1892.
Histoire Naturelle des Araignees.
2 me ed.
1.
Paris.
Idem.
1908.
Etude sur les arachnides du Tonkin.
Bull.
sc.
France et Bolgique, 43.
Simroth, H. 1891.
Die Entstehung der Landtiere, Leipzig.
Sinclair, F. G. 1892.
A new Mode of Respiration in the Myriapoda.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
(6), 9.
Stevenson, C. W. 1908.
On the Spinning Organs and Architecture of Evagrus, a Theraphosid Aranead.
Biol.
Bull, 15.
Straus-Dtjrckheim.
1829.
Appendix to Vol.
6 of French translation of Meckel's Comparative Anatomy (fide Lankester).
Thorell, T. 1870.
Remarks on S}Tionyms of European Spiders.
Upsala.
Wagner, J.
1895.
Beitriige zur Phylogenie der Arachniden.
Jena.
Zeit., 29 Wallstabe, P. 1908.
Beitriige zur Kenntnis der Entwicklungsgeschichte der Araneinen.
Zool.
Jahrb., 26.
Weissenborn, B.
1886.
Beitriige zur Phylogenie der Arachniden.
Ibid.
Explanation of Plates XI, XII, XIII, XIV.
All the figures have been made by the author with the aid of the camera lucida, and in each the anterior region is directed upwards, In the lettering of the plates the following abbreviations have been employed: 1-11, abdominal segments 1 to 11.
A.
Sp., anterior spinneret.
1 G.-ll G., ganglia of the preceding.
Bl.
Cai\, blood cavity.
2 Ap.-5 Ap., appendages of abdomiChel., cheliceron.
nal segments 2-5.
C. L. } caudal lobe.
An., anus.
Ccel., coeloni.
11)09.1 !19 Col., colulus.
Cr., cribellum.
Cr.
PL, spinning plate of cribellum.
Ect., ectoblast.
H., heart.
L. 1-L. 4, ambulatory limbs 1-4.
L. 1 G.-L. 4 G., ganglia of the preceding.
Lam.
1, primary lamella of lung-book.
Lam.
2, secondary lamella of lung-book.
-1/., muscle.
Mes., mesoblast.
M.
Sp., median spinneret.
-V. C, nerve cord.
P.
Cav., ectoblastic cavity of mngbook.
Pea 1 ., pedicel of abdomen.
P.
Sp., posterior spinneret.
P. St., pulmonary stigma.
Pal., lung-book.
R. B., rectal bladder (stercoral pocket).
Ros., rostrum.
Sp., spinneret.
Sp.
GL, spinning gland.
Tr., trachea.
T. St., tracheal stigma and vestibulum.
x., ectoblastic thickening of undetermined significance.
Plate XI.
— Theridium tepidariorum.
— Oblique longitudinal sections through the lung-book region, all drawn to the same scale.
Fig.
1.— About 98 hours.
Fig.
2.
— About 127 hours.
Figs.
3, 4.
— 121 hours; fig.
3 through the stigma, and fig.
4 somewhat lateral to it, of the same lung-book.
Fig.
5.
— Of another embryo of 121 hours.
Fig.
6.
— Of another embryo of 121 hours, to one side of the stigma.
Fig.
7.
— 145 hours.
Fig.
8.
— 145 hours.
Plate XII.
— Theridium tepidariorum.
— All the figures except 16 drawn to the same scale.
Fig.
9.
Longitudinal section of lung-book, about 150 hours.
Fig.
10.
— Oblique cross-section of lung-book of an embryo of the same age.
Fig.
11.
— Longitudinal section of a lung-book, the lamella 3 not shown in their full length, about 218 hours.
Fig.
12.
— Longitudinal section through pulmonary and tracheal stigma, 145 hours.
Fig.
13.
— Median section of tracheal stigma, 168 hours.
Fig.
14.
— Median section of trachea, about 218 hours.
Fig.
15.
— Median section of trachea, 15 days.
Fig.
16.
— Oblique dorso-lateral surface view of embryo of about 127 hours.
Plate XIII.
— Loxosceles.
— Figs.
17-24 are surface views of whole-stained embryos drawn to the same scale, in figs.
17-19 the extra-embryonic area being stippled.
17.
— Postero-ventral , 190 hours (8 days).
Fig.
18.
— Postero-ventral, 170 hours (7 days).
Fig.
19.
— Postero-lateral, 170 hours (7 days).
20.— Lateral, 218 hours (9 days).
21.— Ventral.
22.
— Abdomen, ventral, 265 hours (11 days).
23.
— Abdomen, ventral, 14 days.
24.
— Abdomen, ventral, 20 days, the hypodermal hairs not drawn.
Fig.
25.
— Median longitudinal section of the colulus of an adult, its free apex at the left and its dorsal surface above.
26.
— Ventral view of colulus and spinnerets of an adult female, from an unstained balsam mount.
27.
— Adult vestibulum and roots of main tracheal branches, caustic potash preparation.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fie Fig.
Fi£ Fi° Plate XIV.
— Evagrus, Filistata, Dictyna, Hyptiotes.
— Figs.
28-32 are drawn to the same scale.
Fig.
28.
— Evagrus, lateral view of embryo before reversion.
Fig.
29.
— Evagrus, ventral view of abdomen shortly after reversion; the dotted line in the upper portion of the figure indicates where the cephalothorax had been broken off and a part of the abdomen removed.
Figs.
30-32.
— Evagrus, ventral views of abdomina of successive later stages, fig.
32 of an embryo of 19 days (just hatching).
Fig.
33.
— Filistata, ventral view of abdomen of embryo shortly after reversion.
Fig.
34.
— Filistata, ventral view of cribellum of adult female, balsam mount.
Fig.
35.
— Dictyna volupis, ventral view of cribellum and tracheal vestibulum of adult female, balsam mount.
Fig.
36.
— Hyptiotes cavatus, ventral view of cribellum of adult female, balsam mount.
THE POLYCHJETOUS ANNELIDS DEEDGED BY THE U. S. S. "ALBATROSS" OFF THE COAST OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA IN 1904.
L SYLLIDJE, SPHJERODORIDJE, HESIONIDJE AND PHYLLODOCIDJE.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
Until in 1904 the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, the University of California, and Stanford University joined forces in initiating an investigation of the marine biology of California upon a comprehensive scale, most of the faunal work done on the invertebrates of that region had been limited to the littoral zone, and much of it had been of a local or desultory character.
Early in that year the Fisheries steamer "Albatross" was detailed to investigate the deeper waters off the coast of the southern half of the State.
From March 1 to April 15 collections and physical observations were made at 139 dredging stations in the region south of Point Conception, chiefly in the vicinity of San Diego and among the ♦Santa Catalina and Santa Barbara Islands.
Between May 10 and June 15, 128 dredging stations were established in Monterey Bay, making 267 in all.
The full data relating to these stations have been compiled and published as Fisheries Document No.
604, Washington, 1906.
Among the material gathered is a rich but rather indifferently preserved collection of Polychaeta which was submitted to the writer for study, especially through the interest of Prof. Charles H. Gilbert, of Stanford University.
Coming from the deeper waters, this collection admirably supplements the shore collections from the vicinity of San Diego and Monterey Bay contained in the Stanford University Museum and already reported upon in these Proceedings.
It had been expected that the bulk of the collections would be made up of known shore forms, but the large number of undescribed species encountered in the families already studied has dispelled that anticipation.
Types of new species are to be deposited in the National Museum, and sets of cotypes and duplicates, as far as possible, also in the cooperating Universities and this Academy.
SYLLID^.
Syllis alternata Moore.
This species is the most common syllid in the collection and occurs 21 at depths of from 33 fathoms to 1,400 fathoms and chiefly among the Santa Catalina and Santa Barbara Islands.
The largest and best preserved specimens are 40-44 mm.
long and have 125 to 137 segments, but some are only 12-20 mm.
long.
In some the eyes, and particularly the posterior pair, are enlarged until those on each side nearly meet.
There are indications that this condition may be correlated with bathymetrical distribution, the approximation being most marked in the examples from the greatest depth and least in those from more shallow waters.
When contracted the notocirri exhibit a distinct thickening above the base, when extended they taper nearly uniformly from the base, but in all cases the alternation in length is obvious.
Some examples have the anterior twenty or so segments each marked by a dusky band, not narrow and sharply defined as in S. armillaris, but broad and ill defined.
The accessory tooth of the seta appendages is frequently much worn or nearly obsolete, causing the tips to appear simple.
In no case do the appendages exhibit any tendency to unite with the stems, as in Pionosyllis elongata Johnson and other species of the Synsyllis group.
The chitinous lining of the pharynx terminates in a thickened, somewhat crenulated border, behind which is a circle of soft papillae and dorsally a large, blunt, conical tooth.
In the retracted state the tooth lies in somite III, the gizzard in XI-XXVII, the oesophageal loop in XVIII and the cseca in XVII and XVIII.
S. californica Kinberg may be this species, but no certainty can be reached from the brief diagnosis.
The Eusyllis tubijex Gosse reported by Treadwell from near Monterey Bay is very probably this species.
S. violaceo-flava Grube is another related species from the Philippines.
Stations 4,326. off Point La Jolla, near San Diego, March 8, 280 fathoms, green mud; 4,400, between San Diego and San Clemente Island, April 8, 500 fathoms, green mud; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, April 12, 33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,427, off Santa Cruz Island, April 14, 447 fathoms, black mud and stones; 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island, April 14, 197 fathoms, black sand and pebbles; 4,574, off Cape Colnett, Lower California, October 8, 1,400 fathoms.
Syllis (EWersia) heteroohaeta sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
1-4.
Described from the type only, a small complete specimen 9 mm.
long, with a width, in the region of the gizzard, of body of .4 mm.
and between tips of parapodia of .7 mm.
Segments 80.
Prostomium (PI.
XV, fig.
1) pentagonal, with very unequal sides, the posterior longest and nearly straight, the lateral shortest and convex, the anterior meeting in a rounded apex; about twice as wide as long.
Eyes three pairs, forming a triangular group on each side; the middle pair with distinct lenses and much the largest, but not more than one-ninth the width of the prostomium and situated about their diameter from its lateral border; the posterior also with lenses, directed dorso-caudad, about one-fourth the diameter of the middle pair and situated medio-caudad of them; the anterior 1 mere specks of pigment without lenses situated in line with the posterior pair and equally distant from the middle pair.
Behind the posterior pair is a large black blotch on each side.
Palps prominent, projecting straight forward, separate to the base, about one and one-half times as long as the prostomium, broad at the base where they equal one-half the width of the prostomium, thence diverging slightly and tapering to the rather slender, bluntly rounded tips.
Median tentacle arising posterior to middle of prostomium between middle pair of eyes, lateral tentacles close to base of palps laterad of anterior eyes; both slender, little tapered, subequal, reaching about onefifth of their length beyond palps, strongly moniliform except at base, with twenty to twenty-two joints.
Peristomium (PL XV, fig.
1) a short but distinct ring bearing two pairs of tentacular cirri similar to cephalic tentacles but with distinct ceratophores, similar to the cephalic tentacles; the dorsal equal to the latter and with twenty or twenty-one joints, the ventral two-thirds as long with fourteen or fifteen joints.
Segments all distinct, short, uniannulate, slightly depressed, increasing in width to near the middle.
Pygidium a broadly expanded, furrowed ring whose cirri have been lost.
Parapodia (PL XV, fig.
2) of a length generally about one-third the width of their segments.
Neuropodia thick, little compressed and little tapered, divided distally into a low postsetal lip which curves over and encloses the ends of tne acicula, and a slightly longer presetal lip, the supraacicular portion of which is a small, blunt, projecting lobe forming the dorso-distal angle of the neuropodium.
Posteriorly this lobe is much reduced and the postsetal lip becomes longer and more pointed.
Neurocirri nearly free from base of neuropodia; their cirrophores small and indistinct; styles slender, tapered, blunt, longer than neuropodium and with a swelling on the dorsal side above the base.
Posteriorly they become more slender.
Notocirri strongly moniliform and very distinctly jointed (though the joints become cylindrical rather than spheroidal or ellipsoidal) even to the caudal 1 Omitted from the figure.
end; cirrophores short but generally distinct.
Those on II and V are the longest, about one and one-half times the dorsal tentacular cirrus and exceeding the greatest width of the body ; they have twentyfour to twenty-seven joints; III and IV are slightly longer than the dorsal of I and have nineteen to twenty-two segments.
The remaining notocirri are more or less regularly alternately longer and shorter even to the caudal end, the longer in general equalling about three-fourths the width of their segments and the shorter about three-fifths their width.
Those in the middle of the body have about sixteen or seventeen (fig.
2) and eleven to thirteen (fig.
2a) joints respectively.
Acicula (PL XV, fig.
2) of anterior parapodia in a row of six or seven, the ends of which appear in a groove at the dorso-distal angle of the neuropodia.
They are pale yellow, rather stout, tapered and end in blunt points, slightly knobbed and variously slightly bent or even hooked; middle neuropodia have three or four and posterior only two.
Setae in rough, irregular subacicular fascicles of about seven rows of three or four each.
They are colorless with rather long, curved shafts slightly enlarged at the distal end (PI.
XV, fig.
3) to form simple, oblique articulations roughened by a few minute points.
Appendages of all except the setae of the dorsal row comparatively short (fig.
3), two to four times the length of the oblique end of shaft, scarcely curved and not hooked at the tip, which is a simple point below which is sometimes an obscure accessory tooth; margin strongly toothed.
Seta?
of dorsal series and sometimes one or two of the next row more slender (PI.
XV, fig.
4) with very long, slender, straight appendages usually about four times the longest of the lower rows, with blunt ends (fig.
46) and finer marginal denticulation (fig.
4a).
Such setse continue to the caudal end and are similar on all segments.
Many of the posterior parapodia also bear a single stout, nearly straight, spinelike simple seta, as long as the shafts of the others, in the dorsal part of the bundle; it is probably to be regarded as a prolonged aciculum.
Proboscis (PL XV, fig.
1) protruded about one-third of its length beyond palps, broad cylindroid, diameter exceeding prostomium, cuticle thick, smooth and entire at orifice; dorsal tooth stout and blunt, probably from wear; behind this is a circular fold bearing eight (or nine?)
distant, soft, rounded papillae.
Gizzard reaches from IX to XXI and has thirty-seven rings.
Colorless in alcohol.
The only specimen was taken at Station 4,423, off San Nicolas Island, April 13, 339 fathoms, gray sand, black pebbles, shells.
Syllis (Ehlersia) anops Ehlers, from the Straits of Magellan, is a much more elongated species with the anterior and posterior dorsal setae appendages differing in form.
S. singalisetis Grube, from the Philippines, also belongs to the subgenus Ehlersia, but has only four eyes.
Pionosyllis typica sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
5-7.
Form moderately slender, widest in the region of the gizzard, from which it tapers regularly to the caudal end.
The well-extended and complete type has 96 segments and is 31 mm.
long and 1.2 mm.
in diameter at XXV.
Prostomium small, somewhat sunken into peristomium, about one and two-thirds times as wide as long, the greatest width posterior, the sides and front broadly and regularly rounded.
Eyes two pairs, dark brown, small, anterior pair close to lateral border and about midway of length of prostomium; posterior pair little more than onehalf diameter of anterior and slightly behind and within them.
A pair of faint ridges run from the posterior eyes to the posterior border of the prostomium, nearly completing with the eyes a V-shaped figure.
Palps completely separated to base, bent somewhat ventrad, broadly triangular with rounded angles, about as long as prostomium and basal width about two-thirds length.
Median tentacle arising between posterior eyes, about one and one-fourth times as long as prostomium and palps, slender and slightly tapered, divided into about twentyfour articles, distinct distally but obscure toward the base, not strongly moniliform.
Lateral tentacles similar, arising from a slight depression just anterior to anterior eyes, nearly three-fourths as long as median and reaching nearly as far, divided into nineteen or twenty joints.
Mouth rather large with prominent crenulated lips.
Peristomium short and partly crowded beneath prostomium, but visible for entire width of dorsum.
Tentacular cirri similar to tentacles, the dorsal slightly exceeding median tentacle in length, with about twenty-six joints; the ventral somewhat shorter, with twenty joints.
Body segments nearly terete, remarkably regular but separated by shallow, inconspicuous furrows ; except for a few short anterior ones they are half as long as wide or more.
From the maximum width at the end of the first fourth they taper regularly to the pygidium, which is a small ring and bears one of a pair of cirri as long as the last nine segments and resembling the posterior neurocirri in being scarcely articulated.
Parapodia (PI.
XV, fig.
5) situated at ventral level of body, well separated throughout, slender, rather conspicuous in ventral view but largely concealed from the dorsum.
The neuropodia are slightly compressed and taper slightly to the bluntly rounded and rather abruptly contracted end, which is divided into two small lips separated by a deep cleft, from which the setse arise and into which the tips of the acicula enter.
Neurocirri arise obliquely from basal half of neuropodium, cylindrical or slightly tapered to blunt tips reaching well beyond end of neuropodium, especially on anterior segments.
Notocirri arise from rather prominent but indistinct cirrophores immediately above base of neuropodia and all at same level.
Styles all approximately of one length, about two-thirds width of body, the anterior and alternate ones scarcely longer than the others, but the alternate ones carried erect.
Anterior notocirri are somewhat articulated, similarly to the tentacles, but this character becomes more obscure toward the base and on more caudal cirri; most of them are rather stout, rather quickly tapered and more or less transversely wrinkled, rather than jointed.
Near the caudal end they become much reduced in size.
Acicula number from five or six anteriorly to two or three posteriorly ; pale yellow, tapered, the ends blunt and very slightly knobbed (PI XV, fig.
6).
Setse generally about twelve or fifteen, in oblique, spreading, fanshaped tufts; colorless, the stems long, slender, curved, the ends (PI.
XV, fig.
7) slightly enlarged, oblique, with four or five just perceptible teeth on the convexity of the front face and a slight shoulder behind.
Appendages moderately long, varying from three times diameter of distal end of stem in ventral to five times its diameter in dorsal seta?, except at the posterior end, where all are shorter.
They (fig.
7) are of peculiar form with very oblique base, beyond which the width remains nearly uniform; distally abruptly truncated and ending in a stout oblique spur, above which is a delicate curved tooth often nearly worn away; a very fine marginal fringe ending in a more prominent tuft of hairs.
This species stands closer to the type species than any of the three already described from the Pacific coast of North America.
Johnson's species, P. elongata, appears to be more properly referred to Synsyllis Verrill.
Much confusion in the usage of the genus exists among authors .
Station 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island, April 14, 197 fathoms, black sand and pebbles.
Two specimens.
Pionosyllis gigantea Moore.
About forty anterior segments of a specimen of this large species from an unknown locality.
As noted above it is doubtful if this species really belongs to Pionosyllis.
Trypanosyllis intermedia Moore.
Owing to the deficiencies of the type the original description of this species is incomplete and may be added to here.
A complete specimen with 230 much contracted segments is 60 mm.
long, with a maximum body width of 3.2 mm.
at XXX.
Prostomium subquadrate, slightly wider than long; with a deep postero-median dorsal incision and furrow.
Palps completely separated to base, slightly longer than prostomium, somewhat divided into basal and terminal portions ; the former somewhat swollen and the latter slender and abruptly bent ventrad.
Median tentacle five or six times length of prostomium and composed of fifty-six very short joints; lateral tentacles about one-half as long, with thirty-five to thirty-eight joints.
Eyes on each side nearly or quite coalesced.
Tentacular cirri arising beneath prostomium, the dorsal nearly equal to median tentacle, with fifty joints; the ventral slightly shorter than lateral tentacle, with about thirty-five joints.
Notocirrus of II the longest, about one-third more than the median tentacle, with sixty-four to seventy joints; that of III scarcely shorter and of IV two-thirds as long as II.
Following this the notocirrophores of odd-numbered segments are at a slightly higher level and bear slender styles as long as the width of their segments and with as many as sixty or seventy very short joints; those of even-numbered segments have styles about two-thirds as long.
Pygidium a tapered ring bearing a pair of slender cirri as long as its diameter and with twenty-five to thirty joints.
A pharynx dissected had the circle of teeth in somite VIII; there are eighteen to twenty slender compressed soft papillae and apparently as many teeth, but the latter are so much broken that this cannot be determined with certainty.
Gizzard in XVIII to XXIX with thirtyfive distinct and seven or eight indistinct rings.
The anterior thirty-five or forty segments are reddish-brown above with pale intersegmental lines.
One specimen each from stations 4,417, off Santa Barbara Island, April 12, 29 fathoms, fine yellow sand, rock and coralline; and 4.420, off San Nicolas Island, April 12, 291 fathoms, gray mud and rock.
Odontosyllis phosphorea sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
8-10.
Epitokous, sexually mature examples, unfortunately much distorted and broken.
The type and largest specimen lacks some of the caudal segments and measures 23 mm.
long, 2.5 mm.
in maximum width between tips of parapodia and 1.5 mm.
in width of body only.
The anterior region of twenty-three segments is 4.6 mm.
long, the middle of fifty-one segments provided with swimming notopodial setse is 17 mm., and only four segments of the posterior region remain, making seventy-eight segments in all.
A smaller, more extended and posteriorly complete cotype is 18 mm.
long, the anterior region being 5 mm.
and the posterior 5.5 mm.
Segments 23 + 26 + 31 = 80.
Form rather short and stout, widest at the middle, the ventral surface flat, the dorsal more or less arched, most so in the anterior region, which is nearly as high as wide; the middle and posterior regions depressed.
Prostomium small, short, bent downward, subprismatic with rounded angles, about two-thirds as long as wide and deeper than long, the front abruptly vertical, somewhat excavated for the tentacles.
Eyes two pairs, moderately large with large lenses, brown, occupying sides of prostomium, the anterior pair directed chiefly forward, the posterior upward.
Though themselves distinct they are enveloped in an irregular curved, broad band of black pigment which occupies most of the lateral and posterior dorsal part of the prostomium.
The three tentacles arise close together, the median more dorsal, from a depression in the middle of the frontal face, small, slender, unjointed, subequal, somewhat exceeding length of prostomium.
Palpi directed ventrad, thick, fleshy separated knobs.
Peristomium achaetous, largely concealed by prostomium, only a. very short dorsal ring and larger lateral prominences showing.
Two pairs of tentacular cirri, unjointed but transversely wrinkled, the ventral about as long as width of prostomium, the dorsal about one and one-half times as long.
The nuchal fold arises from the dorsum of II and is a prominent, semicircular, deeply pigmented, free, membranous flap, with a basal, width equal to one-half the segment and covering the posterior part of the prostomium as far as the anterior eyes.
Somite II and remaining setigerous segments are uniannular and well marked by irregular furrows, differing in the several regions as indicated above.
Pygidium a small, low, dome-shaped ring having a pair of short, thick fusiform cirri.
Parapodia, owing partly to the contraction of the specimens, very little prominent, those of the anterior and posterior regions uniramous (PI.
XV, fig.
8), of the middle region biramous (fig.
9).
Neuropodia short, stout, with blunt ends, terminating in two short, thick, rounded lips, of which the postsetal is usually slightly the longer; both terminating dorsally at the acicula, which lie slightly below the dorsal border of the neuropodia.
In the middle region the neuropodia (PI.
XV, fig.
9) are somewhat longer than in the anterior region, but otherwise similar.
The notopodia are low, flattened protuberances pushed out anterior to the seta tuft into a pointed, conical acicular process.
In the posterior region the parapodia are neuropodial only and are gradually reduced in size.
Neurocirri arise from beneath the base and rather on the posterior face of the neuropodia, and have somewhat swollen bases and a small, slightly distinct distal piece reaching about as far as the end of the neuropodium.
They are similar on all parapodia.
Notocirri arising from low swellings (but not distinct cirrophores) on the dorsum well above the parapodia.
Styles rather long, slender and unjointed, but more or less wrinkled.
The first (on II) is longer than the others, about twice the dorsal peristomial cirrus and about one and onethird the width of the segment; that of III is less than twofifths, of IV about three-fifths and of V about seven-eighths of that of II; remaining notocirri are alternately longer and shorter, those in the middle region being respectively about equal to threefifths and one-third the width of their segments.
Neuropodial acicula generally two in anterior, three in middle region, moderately stout, straight, tapered, the ends slightly knobbed.
Notopodial aciculum single, slender, gently tapered and curved, the distal end slightly knobbed and often bent at the end.
Neuropodial setse entirely subacicular, in dense fascicles of several ranks, rather numerous, usually ten or eleven ranks of three or four each.
They are colorless, rather stout, with curved stems becoming thicker distally and ending obliquely in a blunt, slightly roughened point (PI.
XV, fig.
10).
Appendages short broad blades varying in length only from once to twice the width of the distal end of the stem, the longest occurring in anterior parapodia and the ventral part of the bundles, terminating in a prominent hook, well below which is a stout spur.
In the posterior region a solitary slender, curved simple seta also occurs in each fascicle, but has not been detected elsewhere.
A dissected proboscis exhibits the characteristic thick bow and fold of the chitinous rim, but the number and character of the teeth is not evident.
The gizzard of the same specimen has sixty-seven annulations.
Color pale yellow with a conspicuous spot on the prostomium, the nuchal fold and narrow intersegmental transverse lines black; in the middle and posterior regions every fourth one of the latter is much wider and denser, and at these deeply pigmented furrows the frequent fractures of the bodywalls always occur; appendages colorless; eyes brown.
The label reads: "Phosphorescent annelids caught at surface, Avalon Bay, Catalina Island, evening, April 11, 1904, Albatross."
Professor William S. Ritter writes that a phosphorescent annelid swarms at the surface of San Diego Bay.
Doubtless this is the species here described.
It is a frequent characteristic of species of this genus to be luminiferous.
Syllid gen. et sp.?
A small syllid, probably a true Syllis or Eusyllis, from an unknown station, cannot be identified, and its characters are put on record for the use of a future describer.
Length 11 mm., segments 72.
Prostomium nearly twice as wide as long, rounded laterally, slightly convex anteriorly and nearly straight posteriorly.
Eyes very imperfect (probably abnormal), represented by a minute speck of pigment close to the base of the palp on one side, and a larger but still very small eye with a lens on the other side.
No trace of tentacles remains, but it seems very improbable that they should be normally absent in a syllid of this type.
Palps projecting forward and curved downward pistally, free, broad, subelliptical, flattened, their length nearly equal to width of prostomium, and their combined width exceeding that of prostomium.
Peristomium very short above, swelling to a broad lip at the sides and below.
An incomplete, strongly moniliform, dorsal tentacular cirrus with seventeen joints remaining exists on one side, but the others are lost.
Body strongly arched anteriorly, but more flattened behind.
First twelve segments very short and separated by deep furrows, the others becoming longer until in the middle region they are one-fourth as longas wide.
Pygidium a very short ring with a slight median lobe, bearing a pair of very long, slender, moniliform cirri as long as the last twelve segments and consisting of more than forty joints; in addition there is a very minute unjointed median cirrus.
Parapodia small, the neuropodia cylindroid, little compressed, truncate, the distal end divided into nearly equal, short, thick, rounded presetal and postsetal lips.
Neurocirri rather slender, tapered, unjointed, blunt, reaching slightly beyond end of neurocirri.
Notocirri arising from prominent swellings and small cirrophores well above neuropodia; very long, flexible, very strongly moniliform, alternately longer (on odd-numbered segments) and shorter (even-numbered segments).
At the anterior end mostly lost; on middle segments the short ones exceed the width of their segments and have thirty-five or forty joints, the long ones are twice the width of their segments and have fifty to fifty-five joints.
Even near the caudal end they are not much shorter, the longest having forty or more joints and the short ones twenty-five or thirty.
Acicula three or four in a row ending at the dorso-lateral angle, pale yellow, tapered to blunt, slightly knobbed tips.
Setse few, seldom exceeding ten or twelve and oftener fewer, colorless, transparent, with rather stout, curved stems, terminating in enlarged, oblique ends which appear to be quite smooth.
Appendages usually about twice as long as the oblique end of stem, with straight, simple points and strongly developed marginal fringe.
Parapodia of the last thirty segments at least bear a single simple spine which projects prominently from the dorsal part of the bundle.
It has about twice the thickness of the compound seta?, is very slightly curved and ends in a blunt point.
The most posterior project very prominently to quite the length of the compound setae; further forward they are less conspicuous, and anterior to XL none can be detected.
Proboscis retracted and on account of the opacity and pigmentation of the anterior end difficult to see.
It appears, however, to have a smooth margin.
Gizzard in XV to XXII, with thirty-four rings.
Color anteriorly pale brown owing to numerous granules in the integument, passing through yellow into a nearly colorless posterior end.
Autolytus sp.?
A single example of a stock regenerating behind and incomplete from the loss of many of the appendages.
Length 16 mm., width between tips of parapodia 1.4 mm.
; segments 85 with a narrow regenerating bud of 13 segments.
Prostomium broadly ellipsoid, anterior and posterior borders nearly straight, sides prominently convex; with the palps as seen from above the outline nearly circular.
Eyes two pairs with lenses, the anterior nearly black, diameter about one-fifth width of prostomium, located midway of the length of prostomium at its lateral borders, looking outward and a little downward and forward; posterior brown, about one-half diameter of anterior, with which they are in contact on the dorso-postero-median side.
Palps completely coalesced to tips, but having a depressed median line and barely perceptible distal emargination.
Median tentacle lost, but one lateral tentacle present, arising just above base of palp nearly in line with anterior eye, coarse, little tapered, its length six or seven times prostomium and palps, but much twisted and probably incomplete.
Peristomium bearing large cirrophores, but only the ventral style of one side remaining, this being one-half the length of the lateral tentacle.
Anterior segments imperfectly separated, the furrows shallow; width increasing for about twenty segments to the gizzard region and then nearly uniform to the end.
A wedge-shaped median elevation with apex at the peristomium extends over the first six or seven segments, and is bounded by the divergent epaulettes which extend caudad from the peristomium and have pigmented borders.
The regenerating region is quite small, barely a mm.
in length and about one-fourth that in width, and ends in an unsegmented blunt pygidium without cirri.
Parapodia, as usual in the genus, short, thick, ventral in position, lacking free neurocirri which become coalesced with the neuropodia to form opaque ventral swellings ; neuropodia terminating in short, thick, presetal and postsetal lips.
Notocirri with large cirrophores, often as large as the neuropodia; styles unjointed, coarse and similar to the tentacle, very easily detached and many missing.
That of II very long, about twice the lateral tentacle and reaching to about XX; that of III about one-half as long; the others much shorter, the longest about one-half III or about width of body.
Acicula four (on one parapodium studied), tapered to blunt points.
Setae forming rather dense tufts, colorless, the shafts rather stout, strongly curved, distally enlarged and near the articulation denticulated on both faces.
Appendages little longer than oblique end of shaft, triangular with bidentate ends, the anterior tooth larger and somewhat hooked.
No teeth visible at end of retracted proboscis, oesophagus scarcely looped; gizzard in XX-XXVIII, apparently about thirty-three rings.
No color.
The single specimen comes from an unknown station.
SPH^RODORID^E.
Although at least five generic names have been applied to the few known species of this very small family, it seems that the forms possessing compound setae still lack proper generic designation.
Indeed, if the synonymies published by European authors be correct, all of these names are based upon a single type species.
As each was originally proposed for a single species, there is no difficulty about fixing the types.
Three names were proposed in 1843: Ephesia Rathke for E. gracilis Rathke (n.
sp.
), Sphwrodorum Oersted for S. flavum Oersted (n.
sp.)
and Bebrycc Johnston for P. peripatus Johnston (n.
sp.).
Ephesia was previously used by Hiibner in 1816 for a genus of Lepidoptera, and Bebryce is preoccupied by Bebryce Philippi, 1842.
Nothing in the descriptions of the types serves to differentiate them ; they all certainly have simple setae and lack spherical organs other than those directly related to the parapodia.
Two years later Johnston, discovering the earlier use of Bebryce, substituted Pollicita, but admits the probable identity of his type species with Sphcerodorum flavum Oersted.
Perrier in 1897 proposed Hypephesia for species with simple seta?, naming H. gracilis as the type.
Levinsen employs Ephesia to include both typical species with simple seta?
like E. gracilis Rathke and forms with compound seta?
like E. peripatus Claparede (non Johnston), while Sphcerodorum is retained for those species which bear several series of spherical appendages with granular contents and which have the setse compound, like S. claparedii Greeff.
St. Joseph, on the other hand, prefers to separate the genera on the basis of seta?
characters, ranging under Ephesia species with simple seta?
and under Sphcerodorum those with the setse compound.
Finally Perrier recognizes the three generic types apparent in the family, retains Levinsen's application of Sphcerodorum but divides his Ephesia, unfortunately applying that name to the E. peripatus group and giving a new name {Hypephesia) to the typical E. gracilis with simple setse.
It is evident, therefore, that Sphcerodorum is the proper name for the papillated forms with simple setse only, and, so far as I am aware, no distinct tenable generic names are in existence for the two types with compound setse.
The present collection includes a species of each of the three types known in the family, but all are provisionally placed in the genus Sphcerodorum, a proceeding that may be justified because the known number of species is so small that no confusion will result from placing all in a single genus, because increased knowledge of the species of the family may make known forms possessing intermediate characters, and because the relationships of the Sphserodorida?
have been so variously conceived that it is possible that other generic names have been overlooked.
Sphaerodorum papillifer sp.
nov. PL XV, tigs.
11, 12.
Moderately slender, tapering both ways, the greatest width nearer the anterior end, subterete, but somewhat depressed and flattened below.
Length of type 30 mm.
; maximum diameter at end of anterior two-fifths 1 mm.
; segments 102.
Other specimens one or two millimeters shorter.
Anterior end blunt, the prostomium and peristomium retracted and difficult to distinguish, the former a very short, simple, slightly domed lobe studded with papilla?
and without definite appendages, though three papillse longer than the others may represent the tentacles and a pair of mammilliform papillse the palps.
Peristomium a simple, not clearly differentiated ring surrounding the mouth and bearing a pair of small globoid cirri.
On the dorsum is a <-shaped group of conspicuous black eye-spots which extend on to somite II.
Typically there seem to be two pairs, but frequently there is an additional pair of spots or a median spot anteriorly.
Segments short and uniannular or slightly and irregularly annulated, mobile and irregularly contracted in the different regions; posteriorly becoming very small and tapering into a minute pygidium which bear a pair of spherical cirri with small apical papillse and in addition a minute median cirrus or papilla.
Surface, particularly toward the ends of the body, bearing numerous small, pointed or somewhat clavate retractile papillse which are evidently of a sensory nature and become larger in the neighborhood of the parapodia.
Parapodia (PL XV, fig.
11) rather inconspicuous, lateral, probably uniramous.
They consist of a slender, conical setigerous neuropodium roughened with small, conical, sensory papillse becoming longer towards its distal end, which terminates in an especially prominent one or postsetal lobe.
A much stouter process arising from the posteroventral.
region of the neuropodium, having nearly the structure of the sensory papillse, is undoubtedly the neurocirrus.
Quite distinct from and well dorsad of the neuropodium is a spherical prominence (notopodium?)
bearing on the middle of the distal face a small clavate cirrus.
The spherical body is largest and most conspicuous on middle segments, but the distal cirrus is larger, both relatively and absolutely, at the ends.
These organs are enveloped in a thick cuticle and the interior is filled with a snarl of slender, elongated bodies and opaque brownish granules, giving to the entire organ its characteristic opacity.
A short distance farther dorsad is a clavate papillse similar to that borne by the spherical body but more slender and elongated, especially on middle segments.
Neuropodial aciculum single — a rather stout, yellowish, tapered spine ending in a simple, blunt, somewhat projecting point.
Setae few, about four to six, projecting unequal distances in an irregular fascicle in each neuropodium (fig.
11).
All are simple, colorless, rather stout, the shafts straight or nearly so, the ends expanded into a bladelike extremity with a knife-like edge rising into a slightly curved point and passing at the base into a slightly differentiated lateral spur.
They exhibit little variety in shape or proportions (PI.
XV, fig.
12).
Proboscis unknown.
Color nearly uniform pale yellow, faded, the eye-spots deep brown.
Six specimens from station 4,400, off San Diego, April 8, 500 fathoms green mud.
One is a female filled with large eggs distinctly visible to the naked eye; the others, including the type, appear to be males.
Sphaerodorum brevicapitis sp.
nov. PI.
XV, figs.
13, 14.
Although considerably larger this species closely resembles S. papillifer in general appearance.
The type and only specimen, much contracted and distorted, is 39 mm.
long, with a maximum diameter without parapodia of 1.6 mm., and has 96 segments.
Owing to the partial protrusion of the proboscis as a soft bulbous structure the prostornium is crowded dorsad.
It appears as a very slight, scarcely distinguishable lobe, bearing scattered papilla?, of which five, though still small, are larger than the others ; three of these are very close together near the anterior margin of the lip ; the others are separated by a considerable interval on each side.
Peristomium likewise indistinct — a short achaetous ring bearing a minute mammilliform papilla on each side.
A pair of rather large, widely separated pigment spots, the remains of a pair of eyes, lies partly on this segment but chiefly on III.
Owing to the condition of the specimen little can be determined about the normal appearance of the segments.
The cutaneous papilla?, however, are less numerous and smaller than in S. papillifer.
They are scattered fairly uniformly over the surface, becoming more numerous on the parapodia.
Pygidium a minute ring bearing a pair of low, broad, mammilliform papilla?, besides at least two small, simple papilla?.
Parapodia (PI.
XV, fig.
13) in general similar to those of S. papillifer, but the parts more widely separated and the neuropodia more slender and cylindrical with a conical apex, rather than simply conical, and ending in a small postacicular lobe.
Neurocirri small, subcorneal processes arising from the posterior ventral side of the neuropodia just at the base of the terminal cone.
Spherical organ prominent, with a thinner cuticle than in S. papillifer, and the papilla borne on the ventral side of the base instead of on the outer surface.
Dorsal papilla (notocirrus) well above spherical organ, small, claviform, with a widened base.
Aciculum single, rather more slender than that of S. papillifer, but similar in form, colorless, the blunt-pointed tip projecting freely.
Seta?
in irregular fascicles of usually eight or nine, rather prominent, all compound or semi-compound, becoming widened and flattened distally and then tapering into a hooked tip or appendage which is articulated to the stem by an oblique joint, the absence of which would leave these seta?
very similar to those of S. papillifer (PI.
XV, fig.
14).
Proboscis — see above.
Color slightly yellowish ; opaque from presence of sperm-balls with which coelom is packed.
Type only, from station 4,395, off Santa Catalina Islands, March 31, 2,045 fathoms, blue-gray mud.
Sphserodorum sphaerulifer sp.
now Fragment of caudal end of a species related to S. claparedii Greeff, but with the large spherical bodies more numerous.
It is dark brown and very opaque.
Each segment bears on the dorsum two or three pairs of large, and alternating with them smaller, spheroidal bodies, all partially united at their bases into a somewhat irregular transverse ridge.
The smaller numbers are at the posterior end, and they increase regularly as far as the piece extends to the middle segments.
Several similar but smaller bodies occur on the venter.
Neuropodia generally similar to those of S. brevicapitis, but the very extensile neurocirri and postacicular lobes are much larger, a papilla appears to be absent from the notopodial organ and the first (a smaller cne) of the transverse series of dorsal appendages may be the notocirrus of each segment.
Setae compound, similar to those of S. brevicapitis, but with the joint more distinct and the appendage somewhat longer.
The single specimen, included among some invertebrates presented to the Academy by Professor Harold Heath, was taken from a deepsea fish-line in Monterey Bay on July 16, 1902.
HESIONIDJB.
Podarke pugettensis Johnson.
About a dozen specimens with up to fifty-eight segments and except for the eyes devoid of pigment.
One is regenerating the caudal end.
Many have the proboscis, which has not been described, protruded.
It measures about 1.5 mm.
long and half as wide, the basal two-thirds swollen, bulbous and smooth, the distal portion subcylindrical or truncated conical and more or less compressed; terminal orifice a vertical slit surrounded by eight or ten faintly marked small papilla?.
The first mention of this species in literature is under the name of Ophiodromus by Harrington and Griffin as a parasite on Asterias in Puget Sound.
San Diego Bay, Beacon No.
3 Shoal, March 1, 1904.
PHYLLODOCIDiE .
Phyllodoce mucosa Oersted.
This species, already recorded from the North Pacific, appears to be common off southern California.
Most of the specimens are well preserved and agree closely with typical examples of the species taken in the North Atlantic at Labrador and Greenland, as well as with the figures of Malmgren and other European authors.
The only apparent difference is that the Pacific examples may have one or two more papillae in some of the rows on the proboscis, most of them having 11 or 12 in the upper and lower and 13 or 14 or rarely 15 in the middle rows.
None shows any trace of a median dorsal series, but the other papilla?
are prominent and generally have a conspicuous brown spot on the posterior face.
The form of the prostomium is very changeable and may be pyramidal, ovate or deeply cordate, but is always more or less emarginate posteriorly.
The nuchal papilla is minute and inconspicuous.
Several specimens are regenerating lost caudal ends and one is filled with eggs.
Seven specimens from station 4,399, off San Diego, April 7, 245 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; and one from each of the following: 4,445, Monterey Bay, May 11, 66 fathoms, green mud; 4,476, same, May 16, 39 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,482, same, May 17, 43 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,485, same, 108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,519, same, May 26, 35 fathoms, hard gray sand; 4,548, same, June 7, 46 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock.
Phyllodoce medipapillata Moore.
The median dorsal series of proboscidial papillae is always well developed and quite as conspicuous as the others.
Besides this character this species is distinguished from the related P. mucosa by having the setae .appendages much shorter and the notocirri ovate-lanceolate instead of truncated as in that species.
The large specimen is just 100 mm.
long with 201 segments.
A single example was collected at each of the following stations: 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, April 12, 33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,460, Monterey Bay, May 12, 55 fathoms, green mud, gravel ; 4,558, Monterey Bay, June 9, 40 fathoms, rock.
Phyllodoce ferruginea sp.
no v. PI.
XV, figs.
15-18.
Two complete specimens of nearly equal size.
The type measures 46 mm.
long, .7 mm.
in maximum width of body and 1.2 mm.
between tips of parapodia; 148 segments.
Very slender, nearly linear, widest about end of anterior third, somewhat depressed.
Prostomium (PI.
XV, fig.
15) regularly elliptical, about five-sixths as wide as long, slightly depressed, slightly truncated at both ends and with a very slight posterior median emargination, strongly convex above.
Eyes one pair, brown, very large with prominent lenses, 22 their diameter nearly one-third width of prostomium, situated just posterior to middle of length close to posterior borders of prostomium and looking dorso-laterad.
Frontal tentacles arising by restricted bases, widely separated on antero-lateral borders of prostomium, long, slender and subulate, tapered regularly from above base to slender tip ; the dorsal one and one-half times or more the length of prostomium, the ventral about as long as prostomium.
Study of additional material may modify the last statement, as some of the tentacles of both specimens have evidently suffered injury and one (type) has two, the cotype one, in regeneration as small knob-like buds.
The cells of the prostomium form a small rosette-like radiation anterior to the eyes, but there is no indication of a median tentacle.
Peristomium completely crowded beneath prostomium, projecting as lateral lobes merely, from the upper part of which arise the two pairs of tentacular cirri.
No nuchal papilla.
Posterior lip prominent.
Somites II and III very short but distinct, except that ventrally the former coalesces with the prostomium to form the lower lip.
Tentacular cirri (fig.
15) all unusually long and slender, regularly tapered, with well-developed cirrophores.
The peristomial arises at about the level of the foliaceous notocirri and reaches to about XII; the dorsal of II is at a higher level and reaches XVII; ventral of II at a very low level and equals peristomial; that of III at nearly the level of succeeding notocirri and reaches XIV.
Three or four small setse arise from a small tubercle between the cirri of II and a fully developed neuropodium occurs on III.
Anterior segments all very short and distinctly biannulate; farther back they become nearly half as long as wide.
Pygidium a rather long ring, but cirri wanting.
Parapodia (PI.
XV, fig.
16) unusually small, projecting very little from side of body, the neuropodium flattened, with postsetal lip obsolete and preset al lip large and broadly rounded distally with a very slight notch, from which the point of the aciculum projects (fig.
17).
Xeurocirrus very strongly foliaceous, broadly subovate, several times larger than neuropodium on all somites, completely concealing them from behind and bending dorsad until on most somites it meets the notocirrus; arrangement of veins radial.
Notocirrophores prominent, somewhat flattened domes, two or three times as large at the neuropodia on middle segments.
Strongly foliaceous, thin, imbricated but covering only a small part of the sides of the body, of moderate size but very large in comparison with the neuropodia, broadly cordate with apex bluntly rounded (usually broader at the end than the one figured) and base deeply excavated, with deep } T ellow-brown veinforming a dense bipinnate figure; rather easily detached.
Aciculum single, nearly colorless, straight, tapered to a point like a sharpened pencil which projects slightly beyond the acicular notch (fig.
17).
Setae rather numerous, in broad, fan-shaped fascicles only obscurely divided into supraand subacicular groups; 8 -t11 on somite X, 9 + 12 on XXV and L, 7 49 on C of type.
They are colorless with moderately long stems scarcely reaching beyond the border of the neurocirri of middle segments, slender and gently curved, rather conspicuously inflated at the ends (PL XV, fig.
18) to form a socket bounded by lateral ranks of slender teeth connected anteriorly by a row of much smaller teeth.
Appendages rather long, equalling or generally exceeding depth of neuropodia, very delicate with striations and marginal denticulations not visible under the magnification shown.
Color generally rusty, the body pale with little color, the cephalicappendages and neurocirri deeper and the notocirri very brilliant }>"ellowish brown which contrasts strongly with the paler body and gives the worm its conspicuous coloring.
Proboscis unknown.
Station 4.550, Monterey Bay, June 7, 50 fathoms, green mud, rock.
In form of the prostomium and other features this species approaches P. citrina Malmgren.
Phyllodoce (Carobia) castanea Marenzeller.
A small example 26 mm.
long with 106 segments.
Like the specimen previously reported from Monterey Bay this one has notocirri somewhat more elongated than those of Marenzeller's Japanese types.
The color is paler and more yellowish than in the specimen above mentioned, though, like it, this is a female with eggs.
There is no trace of a nuchal papilla and the flattening of the tentacular cirri is very obvious.
Phyllodoce polyphylla Ehlers, from South Georgia, is probably closely related to this species, though Ehler's figure exhibits no setigerous lobe on II, which is very obvious in this specimen.
The minute dorsal tentacles shown by the type of P. polyphylla are probably merely the result of these being in process of regeneration after having been lost, as I have seen precisely similar conditions in several species.
Station 4,496, Monterey Bay, May 19, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock.
Anaitis polynoides sp.
nov. PI.
XVI, tigs.
19-21.
Owing to the closely imbricated manner in which the large notocirri overlap the slender body this species bears a superficial resemblance to an elongated Polynoe or even more to a Sthendais.
The single specimen is complete, but the posterior one-fourth of the body has evidently been recently regenerated — being abruptly unpigmented and of smaller size.
Form slender, depressed, the segments scarcely exceeding one-third of total width between margins of notocirri or tips of parapodia.
From the maximum width at the end of the anterior fourth the extreme outline tapers slightly forward and regularly and continuously caudad.
Length 44 mm.
; maximum width of segments 1.6 mm.
; total width 3.8 mm.
Segments 88.
Prostomium very short, broad and depressed, decidedly bent downward.
In the figure (PI.
XVI, fig.
19) the prostomium is represented as pressed upward somewhat, but in the position in which it naturally rests the anterior outline is regularly semicircular and the length (exclusive of the posterior prolongation) about one-half the width.
From the slightly convex posterior margin a median prolongation fits into a deep depression in the peristomium and bears a knob-like nuchal cirrus having a diameter about equal to the eyes.
Eyes one pair, conspicuous, circular, brown, about one-ninth or one-eighth the width of the prostomium and widely separated by an interval of about five times their diameter, close to the posterior margin of the prostomium.
Frontal tentacles very short, subcorneal with small terminal appendages, very widely separated and somewhat reflexed on sides of prostomium ; the dorsal about as long as one-third width of prostomium and separated by about twice their length; the ventral somewhat longer, nearer together and reflexed so that they are concealed in dorsal views.
Peristomium somewhat tumid laterally, but excavated dorso-medially for the nuchal projection and papilla, almost indistinguishably coalesced with II which is similarly tumid laterally but lacks a median depression.
Tentacular cirri four pairs, rather short, thick, blunt, and stiff.
The first (or peristomial) pair scarcely longer than width of prostomium and not reaching beyond IV; dorsal of II with a much larger ceratophore and reaching VII ; ventral of II equal to peristomial and that of III (notocirrus) similar to dorsal of II and reaching VIII.
Podous segments well defined, very regular, the anterior very short, but soon becoming one-third as long as wide, slightly convex above, flat below, with a shallow neural groove.
Posteriorly the segments taper to a very minute pygidium bearing a pair of relatively stout, cylindroid anal cirri, the combined width of which equals that of the pygidium and the length the last five or six segments.
Parapodia (PL XVI, fig.
20) begin on III, strictly lateral, prominent, their length exceeding one-half width of body, toward the ends becoming smaller but otherwise unmodified.
Strictly uniramal, the neuropodia compressed, with obsolete postsetal lip and prominent, foliaceous presetal lip divided by an acicular notch into a larger, broadly-rounded, supra-acicular lobe and a somewhat shorter subacicular lobe obliquely tapered to a blunt point.
Notocirrophores large, those of all except most anterior segments flattened and auriculate (fig.
20), Notocirrostyles beginning with IV, thin and membranous; typically broadly lunate-reniform, the external border squarish, very regularly, closely and broadly imbricated, covering and concealing the parapodia and posteriorly the entire dorsum, but leaving the middle of the segments exposed anteriorly.
Toward the anterior end the styles approach a circular form and become gradually smaller until practically the entire dorsum is left uncovered.
The notocirrus of III is the last tentacular cirrus, while the neurocirrus of the same segment differs in no respect from those following.
Neurocirrophores prominent swellings at base of ventral side of neuropodia.
Neurostyles (fig.
20) oblong elliptical, with the broad distal end subtruncate, foliaceous, about equalling the neuropodia in size and reaching to or, on anterior parapodia, beyond their ends.
Aciculum single, stout, pale yellow, gently curved, with simple bluntly pointed tip.
Setse (PL XVI, fig.
21) colorless, numerous (about 30, equally divided between supraand subacicular groups on middle segments), in a broad, fan-shaped fascicle.
Shafts slender, slightly curved, slightly enlarged at the end; the very asymmetrical socket prolonged on one side into a great spine with a few small teeth on its base ; the other side bearing a shoulder for articulation of the appendage which is supported by a thin, scale-like process slightly fimbriated at the end.
Appendages long, about equal to the depth of the neuropodia, slender and delicate with the margin very finely but distinctly denticulated.
The form of the articulation resembles the Eteone type.
Color generally, including prostomium and four anterior segments, under parts, parapodia, lateral parts of notocirri and posterior fourth of body, pale yellowish or j^ellowish ashy; exposed part of dorsum rich purplish-red with a fine blue-green iridescence.
Inner thirds of notocirri rich brown, together forming a pair of broad stripes extending continuously for the anterior three-fourths and becoming darker anteriorly.
Tentacular cirri except colorless tips, largely of a somewhat darker brown.
Eyes dark brown.
Proboscis unknown.
The type is a female containing half-grown ova which largely fill the ccelom and enter the cavities of the parapodia and notocirrophores.
Station 4,548, Monterey Bay, June 7, 46 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock.
Eumida tubiformis sp.
nov. PL XVI, figs.
22, 23.
All of the specimens are contracted and in this state are depressed and stout, with the segments much crowded, particularly at the anterior end.
The type, a female with 137 segments, is 67 mm.
long, with a maximum body width of 3.1 mm.
and a width between tips of parapodia of 4.5 mm.
A male with 104 segments is 37 mm.
long, and a small portion of the anterior end of a very large example measures 7 mm.
between the tips of the setae.
Prostomium in the several specimens varying in degree of contraction and proportions, in the type and most of the others being nearly twice as wide as long, subelliptical, slightly concave posteriorly and with a tentaculiferous prominence in front, the prominent lateral ocular lobes resting upon the peristomium.
One specimen has the prostomium subtriangular and only about one-fourth wider than long.
In life it would probably be broadly cordate.
Eyes one pair, very large, about one-fourth, or somewhat less, the width of the prostomium, with large lenses looking upward.
Immediately behind and below them are the small nuchal sense organs.
Frontal tentacles arising close together on front of prostomium separated by a distance of about one-fourth width of prostomium, all subulate with basal half thickened and beyond that abruptly tapered to very slender tips, subequal or the ventral pair somewhat longer, slightly exceeding one-half width of prostomium.
Median tentacle arising from a slight depression between lenses of eyes, not abruptly thickened at base, more slender and slightly longer than frontal tentacles.
Peristomium much shortened, crowded beneath prostomium, not visible as a distinct segment from above ; somites II and III also much shortened and crowded.
Tentacular cirri with well-developed cirrophores and large stout subulate styles shaped like the median tentacle but very much larger.
Dorsal and ventral of II widely separated, the ventral being at nearly the level of the notocirri of succeeding somites.
The single pairs of I and III lie opposite the interval between those of II, the peristomial being at the higher level.
That of I reaches VI, ventral of II reaches VIII and dorsals of II and III reach IX.
Body of very uniform diameter, being perhaps widest at about XL, thence tapered very gradually and regularly caudad.
Owing to the maimer in which the notocirri are imbricated an aspect of rather strong depression results, but the body is really very little depressed.
Segments arched above, flattened below with a slight neural ridge, distinctly biannulate dorsally with small intersegmental rings.
Pygidram a very small, slightly thickened and rugous ring.
Normal setigerous parapodia (PL XVI, fig.
22) begin on III, but a small tubercle bearing a few setse lies between the cirri of II.
They arise at the ventral level of the segments and are prominent, being from more than one-third to one-half the width of their segments.
Neuropodium somewhat compressed, supported by a single aciculum, the postsetal lobe nearly obsolete, presetal well developed, divided by an acicular notch into a supraand a subacicular lobe, both rounded on anterior but bluntly pointed on posterior parapodia.
Neurocirri broadly foliaceous, ovate with bluntly pointed tip and oblique base attached to a low cirrophore, reaching to or beyond end of neuropodium which they exceed in width and overlap and conceal from behind.
The} 7 are relatively much larger on anterior somites where they equal one-half the notocirri, diminishing to one-fourth the notocirri posteriorly.
Notocirrophores low and broad.
Notocirrostyles (PI.
XVI, fig.
22) of moderate size, broadly foliaceous and imbricated over bases of parapodia, leaving most of the dorsum of body exposed.
They are broadly cordate with blunt apex and nearly symmetrical base, the anterior ones broader, often wider than long and blunter, the posterior tending to more acute, cuneate, longer, less cordate forms, with the length as much as one and one-third times the width.
Aciculum single, yellow, stout, tapered, straight or slightly curved and ending in a simple blunt point at the acicular notch.
Setae in a single vertical series spreading fanwise and only very slightly separated at the acicular notch into supraand subacicular groups.
On the type they are distributed as follows: somite X, 13 supraand 21 subacicular; XXV, 14 and 25; L, 11 and 24; LXXV, 11 and 17; and C, 8 and 14.
They are nearly colorless, with slender slightly curved stems scarcel}' enlarged at the ends (PI.
XVI, fig.
23) to form an imperfect asymmetrical socket, the best developed side of which is broadly rounded and provided with a uniform series of slender teeth.
Appendages of moderate length, very uniformly about one-half depth of neuropodium, rather broad at base but tapering to a slender tip with scarcely discernible marginal denticulation.
Color uniform dark brown, yellowish brown or pale yellow with a few irregularly scattered dusky or black blotches, one of which may be on the prostomium.
Proboscis of type 8.5 mm.
long.
2.4 mm.
in diameter at orifice; of largest specimen 16 mm.
long, 3 mm.
in diameter at base and 4 mm.
at orifice.
It is somewhat trumpet-shaped, gradually widening to the somewhat flaring distal end which is surrounded by a circle of 18 to 20 low, rounded, soft papillae more or less incised at the base and in some cases cleft in two.
When protruded the proboscis has a slight spiral twist and is marked by three narrow, raised longitudinal lines on each side, the dorsal and ventral intervals between those of the two sides being one-third more than the lateral intervals between those of the same side.
The general surface is marked with fine irregular wrinkles and usually, but not always, with minute granulations which are slightly more conspicuous along the raised lines.
Stations 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island, April 14.
197 fathoms, black sand and pebbles, six specimens, two of which (including the type, a female filled with large ova) are mature; 4,423, off San Nicolas Island, April 13, 339 fathoms, gray sand, black pebbles, shells, one young specimen, in which the longest (second dorsal) tentacular cirri each bears a symmetrical swelling on its anterior face near the middle.
Eulalia nigrimaculata spnov. PI.
XVI, fig-s. 24-26.
Two complete specimens considerably contracted have the following measurements: Type 33 mm.
long; maximum width near middle body only 1.5 mm., extreme width between tips of parapodia 3 mm.
; number of segments 89 ; female with eggs.
Cotype 36 mm.
long with 90 segments.
Prostomium subglobose, slightly depressed, nearly circular in outline as seen from above; profile strongly convex, sloping downward anteriorly; sharply differentiated from peristomium.
Eyes one pair, brown, with well-developed lenses, large, nearly one-fourth width of prostomium, midway of the length and close to the lateral margins of which they are situated.
On the type the right eye is enormously and abnormally enlarged and occupies the most of that side, to the displacement of the dorsal right tentacle.
Frontal tentacles widely separated, the dorsal just outside of line of lateral border of eyes, the ventral slightly nearer together; length of dorsal equal to prostomial width, with swollen fusiform basal half and abruptly contracted filamentous distal half ; ventral similar but with much shorter terminal filament.
Median tentacle (present in type only) arising between eyes, slightly longer than frontal tentacles, with less swollen base and regularly tapered.
Peristomium and II coalesced, forming a short distinct ring above, crowded forward beneath the prostomium, at the sides of which the peristomium appeal's.
Mouth large, bounded by a nearly smooth posterior lip.
Tentacular cirri much crowded, the peristomial and that of III (notocirrus) arising almost between the dorsal and ventral cirri of II.
the former at the higher level.
All have short but distinct eeratophores and prominent, regularly acuminate styles with slender tips.
They are slightly flattened in the type, much more strongly flattened, apparently as a result of accidental pressure, in the cotype.
The longest (dorsal of II 1 reaches to XII.
those of I and III reach to IX and the ventral of II to VI.
A conspicuous tuft of neuropodial seta* occurs between the two cirri of II.
Setigerous segments sharply defined by deep furrows : very short anteriorly but increasing until in the middle region they are at least one-third as long as wide.
Slightly depressed and little more convex above than below.
Behind the middle they gradually diminish in size to the pygidium, which is a very short and small ring, the cirri oi which have been lost.
Parapodia rather short, scarcely exceeding one-third width of their -egments but with conspicuous spreading tufts of seta> which begin on II.
Neuropodia (PI.
XVI.
fig.
24) strongly compressed, subovate; postsetal lip rudimentary: presetal lip well developed, foliaceous.
symmetrical, terminating in a blunt point but altogether lacking notch.
though there is a slight posterior groove in which the end of the aciculum rests (,fig.
25).
Xeurocirri (fig.
24) rather thick, very large, especially anteriorly where they have an area of about four times theneuropodium.
but diminishing to twice the neuropodium posteriorly.
They are narrowly palette-shaped, the excavated portion attached to low cirrophores on the ventral base of the neuropodia.
the broad end outward and bent dorsad behind and extending far beyond the neuropodia, which they completely conceal from behind and serve the purpose of postsetal lobes.
They are crowded with deep-brown or on the margins often nearly black glands.
NTotocirrophores (fig.
24) large and prominent, erect, more or less dome-like with a restricted area for attachment of the styles.
Styles thin and membranous, easily detached, somewhat imbricated and concealing the parapodia; anteriorly ovate with rounded ends, on middle segments broadly ovateeuneate with pointed ends and posteriorly becoming elongated: the base oblique and asymmetrical with a shallow sinus for attachment.
Internal structure finelv reticular with slightly developed veins and glands.
Aciculum single, colorless, tapered, ending in a rather acute point.
Seta 3 forming a very broad undivided, fan-shaped fascicle, very numerous for the genus (30 on X.
4$ on XXV.
40 on I. and 36 on LXXV projecting about one-fourth of their length beyond the neurocirri.
Stems colorless, of moderate length, nearly straight, little enlarged at the distal end (PI.
XVI, fig, 26) where they terminate in a small shoulder and a socket bounded on each side by a fringe of long delicate teeth.
Appendages very delicate, about as long as depth of neuropodium with barely discernible marginal teeth.
Proboscis (only partially protruded) cylindrical, 5.5 mm.
long and .6 mm.
in diameter, surface thickly covered with small, blunt, flattened, slightly retrorse papillae, separated by considerably more than their length.
Color gray-blue or bluish-plumbeous with a metallic blue iridescence and brownish suffusions and marked with a few conspicuous gradrate black spots, especially on the ventral surface, either widely scattered singly or aggregated in groups.
Notocirri uniform orange yellow.
Neurocirri yellowish with dark brown or blackish margin.
Station 4,454, Monterey Bay, May 12, 71 fathoms, green mud and sand.
Eulalia levicornuta sp.
now PL XVI, figs.
27-30.
Only one small specimen measuring 43 mm.
long is complete, with 221 segments.
The type is much larger, being 70 mm.
long for 172 segments and lacking perhaps the caudal one-third and 100 segments; its maximum width of body at C -CXX is 1.2 mm., between tips of parapodia 1.8 mm.
Another very much macerated and incomplete specimen referred here somewhat doubtfully has 240 segments and is 94 mm.
long, and less than 1 mm.
wide, having therefore nearly the proportions of a slender lumbriconereid.
Form very slender and elongated, nearly linear, but tapering gently both ways from about the end of the anterior third.
Prostomium (PL XVI, fig.
27) about as wide as long, moderately depressed, semiovate with truncate ends or subtriangular with rounded basal angles and truncated apex, usually sharply differentiated from the peristomium, but in one specimen almost continuous with it dorsally.
Eyes one pair, small, about one-seventh of posterior width of prostomium, close to its postero-lateral angles, separated by three to three and one-half times their diameter, dark brown, with small lenses.
Frontal tentacles situated on the sides of a distinctly separated anterior segment of the prostomium, subcorneal, their length about one-half prostomium.
Median tentacle a minute, slender, conical papilla situated on line between anterior border of eyes and having a length of from one to one and one-half times their diameter.
Peristomium a complete ring entirely posterior to the prostomium and usually free from it all round, scarcely wider than prostomium, dorsally elevated into a convex platform-like area which in one case overlaps the prostomium and partly covers the eyes.
Mouth small with nearly smooth posterior lip.
Somites II and III similarly well differentiated with similarly elevated dorsum.
Tentacular cirri arising from large cirrophores, the styles rather stout, tapered and short; the peristomial pair about as long as prostomium and reaching to III; ventral of II equal to peristomial and above its base a tubercle bearing a small tuft of setae; dorsal of II about twice as long and reaching VI or VII.
Somite III bears a fully developed setigerous parapodium and its tentacular notocirrus is equal to that of II.
Anterior somites are uniannulate and very distinct, becoming less well differentiated farther back as small interpodal annuli appear.
The raised dorsal field gradually merges with the general convexity of the back.
The venter is flat.
They very gradually increase in size to or beyond C, and taper thence caudad.
Pygidium a dome-shaped ring about twice as long as the last setigerous segment, bearing a pair of somewhat flattened, subcylindrical cirri resembling the posterior notocirri but rather larger than they, together with a minute median cirrus (described from one specimen, station 4,431).
Parapodia (PI.
XVI, figs.
28, 29) small, little prominent and scarcely exceeding one-fourth the width of their segments, but becoming relatively longer and more prominent posteriorly.
Setigerous neuropodia begin on II; they are slender, only slightly compressed, and little tapered to a bluntly rounded presetal lip divided by a slight acicular notch into two equally rounded lobes, of which the subacicular is usually somewhat longer; postsetal lip scarcely developed.
Neurocirrophores broad and low, the styles (PI.
XVII, figs.
28, 29) subelliptical, little excavated for attachment, thick, more or less foliaceous, broadest and relatively largest on anterior parapodia, where they considerably exceed the neuropodia and extend somewhat beyond them.
Posteriorly they are relatively smaller and narrower, but often so much longer that fully one-fourth of their length projects beyond the neuropodia, but they always tend to diverge from the latter and not to bend dorsad behind them.
Notocirrophores (PI.
XVI, figs.
28, 29) of anterior somites rather small, of middle somites low but nearly as wide as the length of the neuropodia.
Styles generally foliaceous but comparatively small, carried nearly erect, little imbricated and covering but a small part of the sides of the parapodia.
On anterior somites (fig.
28) they are regularly ovate with broadly rounded distal end and scarcely excavated base; on middle segments larger, more broadly ovate, with bluntly pointed tips and nearly straight symmetrical bases; while posteriorly they become again smaller and tend toward a cuneate form.
They all exhibit strongly marked internal striations arranged in a partly bipinnate, partly radiate pattern.
On some specimens the styles are contracted and much thicker, the anterior ones being nearly cylindrical, and all are opaque and of a more or less deep brown color.
Greatly extended specimens have the notocirri all erect and widely separated.
Aciculum single, rather slender, of the form usual in the genus, with the bluntly pointed tip projecting slightly from the notch.
Setae (PI.
XVI, fig.
30) arranged in the usual fan-shaped vertical fascicles of one series, of a rather small number, as follows in the type: on X 7 supraand 5 subacicular, on XXV 5 + 11, on L 9 + 11, on LXXY 11 + 12, on C 7 + 14 and on CLXX 14 in all.
They have remarkably long, slender shafts with slightly enlarged symmetrically cleft ends forming the socket, each side of which is prolonged obliquely into a prominent elongated tooth flanked on each side by a fringe of delicate spinules.
Appendages (fig.
30) rather short, usually one-third to onehalf depth of neuropodium, but on one specimen (station 4,431) rather longer, broad at base and tapered and gently curved to a delicate tip, the marginal denti dilations and oblique striations fine but distinct.
Proboscis of a cotype protruded 2.5 mm., .4 mm.
in diameter at distal end, terete, gradually increasing in diameter distally, the entire surface covered so thickly that they touch each other with crowded, granulated, slightly flattened, rounded papillae, at least three irregular circles of which at the distal end are of much larger size.
Color of type (female filled with eggs) faded to a uniform pale greenish drab or light olive.
Another specimen is nearly uniform brown and still another pale yellow with a thin brown line of granules across each segment and the head, tentacular cirri and parapodial cirri deep brown with aggregations of similar granules.
One specimen from each of the following stations: 4,418, off Santa Barbara Island, April 12, 238 fathoms, gray sand ; 4,420, off San Xicolas Island, April 12, 291 fathoms, gray mud, rocks; 4,430 (type), off Santa Cruz Island, April 14, 197 fathoms, black sand and pebbles; 4,433, off Santa Rosa Island, April 15, 265 fathoms, gray mud.
This species belongs to the bilineata-gracilis group and, with the exception of the Hawaiian species E. navaica Kinberg, appears to be the first of that group to be described from the Pacific.
As is the case with E. gracilis Verrill, specimens in different states of contraction differ considerably in appearance.
Eulalia (Sige) bifoliata sp.
nov. PI.
XVI, figs.
31-34.
Described from a single imperfect anterior end consisting of the head and 57 segments, having a length of 18 mm.
and a maximum diameter between tips of parapodia of nearly 2 mm.
Contracted and rather stout, strongly arched above, flat below and little tapered in the length of the piece.
Prostomium (PL XVI, fig.
31) about three-fourths as long as wide, somewhat depressed, subpyramidal with a straight, inclined profile, greatest width in posterior half, posterior border nearly straight, entire, bounded by a deep furrow separating the peristomium.
No anterior furrow behind tentacles.
Eyes circular with prominent lenses, brown, large, about one-fourth width of prostomium and situated at its greatest width, about one-half their diameter anterior to posterior border and close to lateral border.
Frontal tentacles situated rather close together at the truncated apex of prostomium, separated by little more than one and one-half times their diameter, somewhat macerated and imperfect, but their length approximately one-half prostomium or slightly less.
Median tentacle situated between anterior border of e} r es at centre of prostomium, much smaller than frontal tentacle, but macerated so that the exact size is not certain.
Immediately behind each eye is a faint brown spot.
Peristomium scarcely visible above, forming a swollen lower lip and small lobes beneath eyes.
Remaining segments short, imiannulate.
Tentacular cirri with distinct cirrophores, all styles lost except the ventral of II on one side, which is rather short and stout, conical, about one and one-half times length of prostomium and reaching to V. A small tuft of setae on II.
Parapodia (PI.
XVI, figs.
32, 33) small and little prominent, their length about one-fourth width of somites on anterior and one-half on posterior (middle) somites, but strongly compressed and deep.
Postsetal lip obsolete; presetal greatly developed and foliaceous, divided by a deep acicular notch into a much smaller subacicular lobe, rounded at the end, and a larger supra-acicular lobe prolonged into an acuminate but blunt tip frequently much longer and more slender than those figured.
Neurocirrophores (figs.
32, 33) rounded swellings at base of neuropodia; styles strongly foliaceous, thin, quadrant-shaped, with the dorsal angle prolonged similarly to the supra-acicular lobe, but usually extended far beyond the latter.
Though of large size they do not exceed the neuropodia of middle segments, the subsetal lobes of which they completely cover from behind, reaching slightly dorsad of the acicular notch, their nearly straight dorsal border being parallel to the axis of the supra-acicular lobe and serving as a postsetal support to the setse.
Notocirrophores (fig.
33) low and flat, moderate in size, immediately above notopodium.
Three or four only of the notostyles remain.
They are strongly foliaceous but rather small, scarcely or not longer than the neurostyles and about one and one-half times as wide as they, broad ovate or suborbicular with nearly straight, truncate, scarcely excavated base, opaque brown with granules chiefly arranged in radial lines.
Aciculum single, pale yellowish, with colorless base, straight, regularly tapered to a simple point, which enters but does not project beyond the acicular notch.
Setse (PI.
XVI, fig.
34) numerous (IS supraand 27 subacicular on XXV), forming a broad, spreading, fanshaped fascicle, the shafts colorless, long, with about one-third of their length projecting beyond the margin of the neurocirrus, slightly curved, little enlarged at the end, where they terminate in a prominent shoulder and a pair of high, tapered processes finely denticulated at the ends which bound the socket.
The only perfect appendage seen has a length of about three-fifths the depth of the neuropodium and is slender and finely denticulated.
Proboscis (dissected) tubular with smooth non-papillated lining; orifice surrounded by a circle of apparently eighteen soft papillae.
This species has the smooth proboscis, prolonged neuropodia and neuropodial cirri and form of setae characteristic of the subgenus Sige, features which appear in the descriptions of no known Eulalia from the North Pacific or the west coast of South America.
Type from station 4,522, Monterey Bay, May 26, 149 fathoms, gray sand and shells.
Explanation of Plates XV and XVI.
Plate XV.
— Syllis heterochccta — figs.
1-4.
Fig.
1.
— Anterior end, X 56.
Fig.
2.
— Parapodium XXV with one long and one short seta in place; a, short notoeirrus from XXVI, X 56.
Fig.
3.— End of short seta from XXV, X 600.
Fig.
4.
— Same of long seta, X 250; a and b, articulation and tip of appendage of same, X 600.
Pionosyllis typica — figs.
5-7.
Fig.
5.
— Parapodium with dorsalmost and ventralmost seta?
represented, X 24.
Fig.
6.— Tips of two acicula, X 400.
Fig.
7.— End of a seta from XXV, X 600.
Odontosyllis phosphorea — figs.
8-10.
Fig.
8.
— Parapodium X without seta?, 56.
Fig.
9.
— Parapodium L with bases of notopodial seta?
only, X 56.
Fig.
10.
— Distal end of middle seta from L, X 600.
Spheerodorum papillifer — figs.
11, 12.
Fig.
11.
— Parapodium X with setse, X 98.
Fig.
12.— Seta from X, X 440.
Spharodorum brevicapitis — figs.
13, 14.
Fig.
13.
— Parapodium X (the parts may be abnormally separated^owing to distention of body walls) without setae, X 56 Fig.
14.
— Average seta from somite X, X 440.
Phi/llodoce ferruginea — figs.
15-18.
Fig.
15.
— Anterior end, X 56.
Fig.
16.
— Parapodium XXV with dorsalmost and ventralmost seta shown, X 56.
Fig.
17.
— End of neuropodium showing tip of aciculum, X 500.
Fig.
18.
— Profile and front view of region of articulation of seta from XXV, X 440.
Plate XVI.
— Anaitis polynoides — figs.
19-21.
Fig.
19.
— Anterior end, from the dorsum, X 24 Fig.
20.
— Parapodium of XXV, anterior view, dorsalmost and ventralmost setse shown, X 24.
Fig.
21.
— Profile and rear views of articular region of two seta?
from somite X, X 360.
Eumidia tubiformis — figs.
22, 23.
Fig.
22.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium L, showing dorsalmost and ventralmost seta?
in place, X 24.
Fig.
23.— A seta from somite XXV, X 360.
Eulalia nigrimaculata — figs.
24-26.
Fig.
24.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium L, with dorsalmost and ventralmost seta?
in place, X 24.
Fig.
25.
— Outline of neuropodium showing tip of aciculum, X 56.
Fig.
26.
— Two views of articular region of seta from X, X 440.
Eulalia levicornuta — figs.
27-30.
Fig.
27.
— Anterior end, X 24.
Fig.
28.
— Anterior aspect of parapodium XXV, X 56.
Fig.
29.
— Same of parapodium LXXV, with dorsalmost and ventralmost seta?
in place, X 24.
Fig.
30.
— A seta from XXV; a, front view of articulation of same, X 440.
Eulalia bifoliata — figs.
31-34.
Fig.
31.
— Head from dorsum, X 24.
Fig.
32.
— Posterior view of parapodium XXXIII, without notostyle or setae, X 56.
Fig.
33.
— Anterior view of parapodium XXXIX, without seta% X 56.
Fig.
34.
— Profile and rear views of articulation of seta from XXXIII, X 440.
NOTES ON THE BIRDS OF SAN DOMINGO, WITH A LIST OF THE SPECIES, INCLUDING A NEW HAWK.
BY A. E. VERRILL AND A. HYATT VERRILL.
During the winter and spring of 1906 and 1907, the junior author visited San Domingo on a collecting trip, mainly for the mammals, birds and reptiles, and especially for specimens of Solenodon parodoxus, of which an account by him has been published in the Annals mid Magazine of Natural History and elsewhere.
1 He had already obtained a large and interesting collection when an attack of typhoid fever unfortunately put an end to his work.
The avifauna of San Domingo is remarkable for the number of species peculiar to the island, many of which are confined to special, isolated localities.
Many species are met with only at certain seasons, while others, usually very rare, are abundant in places where their food plants occur, during the season when these plants are in fruit.
The birds comprised in the accompanying list were obtained by the junior author 2 in the Dominican Republic (Santo Domingo), between December 21, 1906, and April 13, 1907.
The list includes numerous species not hitherto recorded as taken in San Domingo, two of which were undescribed forms.
Many species of migratory North American birds were obtained there for the first time, so that the list gives valuable data as to the winter habitat of many northern birds.
A few species previously recorded from the island were not observed, while several, such as the flamingo, spoonbill and certain herons, were seen, but were not secured on account of their shyness and the nearly inaccessible places which they frequent.
The difficulties to be overcome in collecting in San Domingo are very great; birds are comparatively scarce and many species are exceedingly shy from constant hunting by the natives.
It is quite probable, therefore, that a number of species yet remain to be discovered in the more remote and inaccessible swamps and mountains.
Although practically the entire republic was covered by this trip, 1 Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist., vol.
XX, p. 68, pi.
IV; Amer.
Journ.
Science, vol.
XXIV, pp.
55-57 (cut), 1907; Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
New York (J.
A.
Men), vol.
XXIV, art.
XXIII, pp.
505-517, figs, plates XXVIII to XXXIII, 1908.
2 The notes on habits, etc., are taken from his field notes, made at the time.
localities were designated by districts as follows: Sanchez; Samana; San Lorenzo; El Valle; La Vega; Miranda.
Each of these districts included the surrounding country for a radius of from twenty to thirty miles.
Sanchez, situated at the head of Samana Bay, proved the most profitable collecting ground, for it affords a great variety of country and vegetation.
The town is built close to the shore of the bay on a steep hillside.
Directly back of the town a range of mountains, which rises to a height of 3,500 feet, is covered with a dense tropical forest, with the exception of the lower slopes, which are cleared and partially under cultivation.
West and south of the town are extensive mangrove swamps, extending inland for twenty-five to thirty miles and stretching across the bay to the mouth of the Barracota River.
Samana is also situated on the northern shore of Samana Bay, about 16 miles east of Sanchez, and is surrounded by rolling hills, forest-clad mountains, and broad and fertile valleys.
The fauna was much like that of the Sanchez district, but birds were by no means so abundant.
A few miles east of Samana, and half way across the bay, is a large, wooded Key, known as the Cayo Levantado, and here several rare species, as well as several migrants hitherto unrecorded from San Domingo, were obtained.
San Lorenzo is an abandoned banana estate on the southern shore of Samana Bay, almost directly opposite Samana, and ten miles distant.
It is situated on a small bay of its own (San Lorenzo Bay), into which the Cana Honda River empties, and this bay and river are fringed with extensive and deep mangrove swamps.
The hills and mountains back of San Lorenzo are of limestone formation, and are remarkable for their isolated, conical forms and •numerous caves.
Between the hills are wide, partly swampy valleys, some of which are covered with dense forests, while others are open and grassy.
This proved an excellent collecting ground, and many species occurred here which were not seen elsewhere.
El Valle is a small interior village, some twenty-five miles inland from San Lorenzo.
It is built on a wide and beautiful prairie.
These prairies or savannas are often swampy and are covered with a luxuriant growth of coarse high grass, with numerous clumps of trees and dense underbrush scattered over them.
In many places deep ravines, or arroyos, intersect the savannas, and these are invariably filled with dense forest growth.
The forests in this vicinity are almost impenetrable on account of the sharp sawgrass, which cuts the skin like a knife and even penetrates strongclothing and leather leggings.
It is quite different from the saw-grass of the southern United States, inasmuch as it climbs over the trees, 23 often completely covering them to a height of twenty to thirty feet.
The El Valle district proved rich in species, and here were obtained a number of unrecorded forms, as well as the two undescribed species.
La Vega is a good-sized town, about seventy-five miles from Sanchez, and is the inland terminal of a railway from the latter town.
It is built in the midst of the splendid Vega Real (Royal Valley), an immense inland plain, surrounded by pine-covered mountains and with numerous wooded ravines and river beds.
Several rare species were taken here, while in the pine forests of the mountains such species as the trogan and white-winged dove were found.
Miranda is a small village nearly forty miles inland from La Vega, and situated in the heart of the wild and unsettled mountains of the island.
The birds were very scarce in this locality, but several species not observed elsewhere were obtained here.
The climate of San Domingo is healthy and the usual tropical fevers and malaria are almost unknown.
Typhoid fever, however, is at times prevalent in the interior.
Although the annual rainfall is great on many portions of the island, especially at Sanchez and Samana, yet it was no greater than in the majority of the Antilles, and during the months of February, March, and April the island suffered from a prolonged drought.
The temperature is variable, ranging from 85° during the day to 48° at night.
This extreme variation at sea level is due largely to the easterly and northerly winds which prevail during the night, while during the daytime they blow mainly from the west and south.
In this connection the following table may be of interest: San Lorenzo, December 29 to January 13: Average temperature— Day (9 A.M.), 84°; night, 60°.
Average number of rainy days, L Average of barometric readings, 30.10; 30.25.
El Valle, January 13 to January 19: Average temperature— Day (9 A.M.), S2°; night, 53°.
Average of rainy days, ^.
Average of barometric readings, 30.15; 30.25.
Sanchez, January 20 to Januarv 28: Average of temperature— Day (9 A.M.), 83°; night , r _59°.
Average of rainy days, ^.
Average barometric readings, 30.20; 30.25.
Sanchez, February 26 to March 11 : Average temperature — Day (9 A.M.), 85°; night, 55°.
Average of rainy days, %.
Average of barometric readings, 30.20; 30.25.
Samana, January 29 to February 25: Average temperature— Day (9 A.M.), 88°; night, 63°.
Average of rainy days, -g-V Average of barometric readings, 30.20; 30.25.
La Vega, March 11 to March 18: Average temperature — Day (9 A.M.), 88°; night, 68°'.
Average of rainy days, +.
Average of barometric readings, 30.15; 30.20.
List of Birds obtained and Notes on their Habits.
1.
Colymbus dominicus, San Domingo Grebe.
Yabon River, San Lorenzo; Yaqui River, Miranda; rare.
2.
Podilimbus podiceps, Pied-billed Grebe.
Camu River, La Vega ; rare.
3.
Sterna maxima, Royal Tern, "Gaviota."
Abundant in all the harbors.
4.
Pelecanus fuscus, Brown Pelican.
The most abundant seabird all around the coasts.
5.
Fregata aquila, Frigate-bird.
Common in the mangrove swamps of San Lorenzo.
6.
Querquedula discors, Blue-winged Teal.
Common in the swamps and rivers.
"• Aythia marila, Scaup Duck.
One flock found in San Lorenzo Bay.
8.
Nomonyx dominicus, Masked Duck.
Colorado River, Sanchez; rare.
9.
Dendrocygna arborea, Tree Duck, "Yaguasa."
Common in all swamps.
This bird is frequently found feeding on the fruit of the royal palm, far from any water.
10.
Guara alba, White Ibis, "C6co."
Abundant in all swamps and muclrhunted by the natives for food.
They are excellent eating.
11.
Plegadis autumnalis, Glossy Ibis.
One specimen taken at Colorado River.
12.
Ardea caerulea caerulescens, West Indian Little Blue Heron, "Garza."
Very abundant in all swamps, along the rivers and in damp meadows and savannas.
At Samana this species frequents the shores and water front of the town, where they act as scavengers and are exceedingly tame and unsuspicious.
13.
Butoroides virescens maculata, West Indian Green Heron, "Cangrito," "MartinPescador."
Very abundant and tame.
Found wherever there was a pond, brook or even a roadside mud puddle.
14.
Aramus giganteus, Lirnpkin, " Carrara."
Common in savannas throughout the country, but seldom seen, although frequently heard.
15.
Ionornis martinica, Purple Gallinule.
Not rare at San Lorenzo and in the vicinity of Sanchez.
16.
Gallinula galeata, Florida Gallinule.
Common in the mangrove swamps and damp savannas.
17.
Fulioa americana.
American Coot.
Not rare in the swamps and rivers.
18.
Actitis macularia, Spotted Sandpiper.
Exceedingly common everywhere.
19.
Ereunetes pusillus, Least Sandpiper.
Rare; one specimen taken at Sanchez.
20.
Gallinago delioata, Wilson's Snipe.
Abundant at San Lorenzo and at El Valle, where in the broad wet savannas I found the best snipe shooting I have ever seen.
The natives had never seen the bird except in flight, as they are unable to shoot them on the wing.
21. lEgialitis vooifera, Killdeer.
Common at El Valle; Sanchez; Samana and La Vega.
22.
JEgialitis semipalmata, Semipalinated Plover.
Common at Samana.
23.
JEgialitis wilsoni, Wilson's Plover.
Common at Samana.
24.
Arenaria interpres, Turnstone.
Common on the small sandy cays in Samana Bay.
25.
(Edicnemus dominioensis, "Boukaru."
Formerly common on all the interior savannas, but now rare.
This strange bird is often kept domesticated for the purpose of ridding the native huts of roaches and other vermin.
The eggs are dark chocolatebrown, marbled with blackish.
It breeds readily in captivity.
The natives have a peculiar method of capturing this bird alive at night.
They stand naked in the long grass of the prairies frequented by the birds and wave fire-flies about their heads with one hand.
The birds approach to capture the flies and are readily captured with the free hand.
26.
Nycticorax violaceus, Yellow-crowned Night Heron.
"Rey Congo."
Very common in the swamps and along the larger rivers.
27.
Numida meleagris, Guinea Fowl.
Introduced and now common in the interior of the country.
Affords excellent shooting.
28.
Columba leucocephala, White-headed Pigeon, " Paloma."
The commonest of the pigeons throughout the country.
These fine birds are extensively hunted and sell for from 10 cents to 25 cents per pair.
At certain seasons — May to September — these pigeons appear in huge flocks.
At other times they are shy and suspicious, and are seen only singly or in pairs.
They feed extensively on the fruit of the mangroves.
29.
Columba corensis, Squamated Pigeon, " Paloma Torcaz."
Fairly common in the mangrove swamps and dense forests of the interior.
30.
Columba inomata, West Indian Pigeon.
Rarer than the preceding species and found in the same localities.
31.
Zenaidura macroura, Mourning Dove.
Rare; a single specimen was obtained near La Vega.
32.
Zenaida zenaida, Zenaida Dove, "Tortola."
Abundant along the river banks of the interior where they feed on the seeds of a yellow-flowered, poppy-like plant.
33.
Melopelia leucoptera, White-winged Dove, "R0II611."
Rare ; confined to the pine forests of the mountains of the interior.
34.
Geotrygon martinica, Key West Quail-dove, "Perdiz."
Only one specimen, obtained on Cayo Levantado, in Samana Bay.
35.
Geotrygon montana, Ruddy Quail-dove, " Perdiz Colorado."
Abundant in damp, dark, open woodland throughout the republic.
Particularly fond of the impenetrable saw-grass thickets, into which it runs at the first sign of danger.
Large numbers are trapped by the natives for food.
They were sold in the markets of El Valle for three cents a pair.
36.
Accipiter fringilloides, "SanNicolo," "Harpon."
Rare ; found in all parts of the island, but obtained only at Miranda.
37.
Eupornis ridgwayi, Ridgway's Buzzard, " Guaraguajo."
Rare; taken only at Miranda, but seen flying over in other localities.
38.
Buteo tropicalis, sp.
nov., Tropical Buzzard.
This fine new hawk, of which two specimens were obtained, is confined to the southern side of Samana Bay.
They are a sluggish, heavily flying bird and will sit motionless for hours on the dead trees of cleared land waiting for rats and lizards.
Their note resembles that of Buteo latissimus.
The nest is built on dead trees, preferably Ceibas, at a great height from the ground.
Description.
— Male, type, San Lorenzo, January 12, 1907.
Above, sooty-brownish with a rich, metallic, purplish gloss.
Scapulars and tertials, as well as upper wing-coverts, narrowly edged and tipped with ashy-gray.
Neck and shoulders streaked, and each feather edged, with rich ferruginous.
Upper tail-coverts rusty-white, barred with sienna-brown.
Tail rusty-ferruginous, the feathers white at base and tips, and with a subterminal bar of dusky-black, broadest on the outer feathers.
About seven to nine distinct, dusky bands on upper surface of tail.
Under surface of tail pale, rusty-white without bars.
Forehead, lores, orbital region and a patch on crown, pure white; the last partially concealed by dusky tips to the feathers.
A distinct "mustache" and a narrow superciliary stripe of black.
Primaries and secondaries rich brown, broadly tipped with and crossed by five bars of black.
Outer webs of first five primaries, and about one-half of the inner webs of same, dusk}' with purplish reflections.
Below white, tinged with buffy on chest, crissum and thighs; the chin and throat narrowly streaked with dusky.
Chest thickly streaked with ferruginous, thickest on sides and almost confluent, forming there a more or less distinct ferruginous patch.
Feathers of belly broadly tipped with dusky, with a "dumbbell-shaped" spot near the base of each feather, forming a distinct, dusky zone across the abdomen.
Flanks dusky brown, each feather spotted with white.
Thighs barred with ferruginous.
Lower tail coverts buff.
Under wing coverts buffy-white streaked with sienna-brown, and with a large triangular dark-brown patch near carpal joint.
Eyes, pale yellow; feet and legs, yellow; cere, pale green; bill, bluish.
Immature birds much resemble the adults, but lack the rich purple gloss of upper parts, and the tail is brownish-gray, crossed by about ten distinct, dusky bands.
Length, 19 to 21 inches.
Wing, 14 to 14.50.
Tail, 7.50 to 8.
39.
Faloo dominicensis, Dominican Sparrow-hawk.
Not uncommon in the interior and on the northern coast.
40.
Falco sparverius, Cuban Sparrow-hawk.
Rare.
Taken only at Miranda.
41.
Falco columbarius, Pigeon Hawk.
Not common.
Obtained at Miranda.
42.
Pandion haliaetus, Osprey.
Abundant around the mangrove swamps, but very shy.
43 Strix glaucops, San Domingo Barn-owl.
"Lechusa."
Common, but seldom seen during the day.
44.
Speotyto dominicensis, San Domingo Burrowing-owl, " Tucii."
Common on the dry prairies between La Vega and Santiago, as well as in the vicinity of Azua on the southwestern coast.
45.
Conurus chloropterus, Parroquet, " Periqiiito."
Rare and confined to certain localities, as El Valle and Matanzas.
They feed on the fruit of the royal palm and are hunted by the natives for food.
46.
Amazona sallaei, Salle's Parrot. "
Cotorro."
Common throughout the island, but particularly abundant during the months of January and February when the seeds of the "Guama" trees are ripe.
Large numbers are killed for food and many are taken from the nests and tamed.
They are very gentle in captivity and are splendid talkers.
47.
Crotophaga ani, Ani, "Judio."
Abundant everywhere.
The native name — "Judio" or Jew — refers to the heavy, roman-nosed beak.
48.
Coccyzus minor, Mangrove Cuckoo, "Moutero."
Abundant in some localities and entirely absent in others near by.
This bird was particularly common at San Lorenzo and^El Valle, but was never seen at Sanchez, sixteen miles distant, although it was quite common, at La Vega and throughout the interior.
49.
Coccyzus maynardi, Maynard's Cuckoo.
Rare.
One specimen obtained at San Lorenzo.
50.
Saurothera dominicensis, San Domingo Cuckoo, "Bobo."
Abundant in all portions of the republic.
They are very tame and stupid, as implied by the native name of "Bobo," meaningfa fool.
This bird is eaten by the natives as a cure for stomach troubles.
51.
Hyetornis fieldii.
Met with only between Miranda and La Vega.
52.
Temnotrogan roseigaster, San Domingo Trogan, "Papagayo."
Common in the pine forests about La Vega and Miranda, but very shy and difficult to obtain.
They perch motionless in the pine trees, and their colors blend perfectly with that of the pine needles and reddish bark.
53.
Ceryle aloyon, Belted Kingfisher.
Common near water everywhere.
Breeds.
54.
Todus subulatus, Tody, " Barrancali."
Abundant at all localities visited.
Very tame and unsuspicious.
On one occasion one of these birds actually alighted on my gun-barrel, as I stood motionless near a small stream.
The note of this bird is a frog-like croak.
The nest is built in holes in the banks of streams; eggs pure white.
55.
Todus angustirostris, Narrow-billed Tody, " Barrancali chico."
The habits and note of this species are similar to the preceding, but it is not so common and is very local in its distribution.
I found it more common than subulatus at San Lorenzo and El Valle, but did not meet with it at all at Sanchez, and saw but one or two individuals at Samana.
In the interior it was about as abundant as subulatus.
56.
Pioumnus lawrenoei, Lawrence's Pigmy Woodpecker.
This odd little bird is rather rare, although possibly its apparent scarcity is due to its quiet and retiring habits and dull coloring which render it inconspicuous.
It was not known to any natives I met, and was obtained only at Sanchez and Samana.
57.
Melanerpes striatus, Woodpecker, "Carpintero."
This is the most abundant and destructive bird on the island.
It is seen everywhere and there is hardly a palm tree in the republic that is not riddled with its holes.
It feeds on fruits, oranges, and cacaopods and frequently ruins the crop.
Fortunately its increase is kept down by a fatal provision of nature in the shape of a parasitic worm which infests the throat and head.
This worm matures at the season when the young woodpeckers are able to leave the nest, and after that time it is practically impossible to find an adult Melanerpes alive.
The ground beneath the nests is often strewn with dead and dying adult birds, their throats and crops so distended with the disgusting parasites as to render them incapable of flight.
58.
Chordeiles minor, Cuban Nighthawk.
Common on the open savannas of the interior.
59.
Antrostomus oarolinensis, Chuck-WillsWidow, " Quiere Beber."
Not rare in the more open portions of wooded hillsides and on open savannas.
Sanchez; La Vega; El Valle.
60.
Cypseloides niger, Black Swift, "Golondrina negro."
Common in the interior and at Samana.
61.
Cypselus phoenicobius, Swift.
Common along the Camu River at La Vega.
62.
Chaetura zonaris, Collared Swift.
This large swift is common at La Vega and in the interior, but usually flies at such an elevation that it is very difficult to shoot.
63.
Lampornis dominious, " Zumbador."
This humming-bird is common throughout the island.
64Mellisuga minima, " Zumbadorito."
This tiny atom of bird life is very common at all points visited.
It is remarkable for its loud and penetrating song, which it gives forth hour after hour, as it perches on some slender twig or on the topmost leaf of some palm tree.
65.
Sporadinus elegans.
I found this handsome humming-bird at all points visited, but most abundant at El Valle.
It loves dark woods and swamps and dashes suddenly into sight, only to flash off almost before the gun can be raised to shoulder.
66.
Tyrannus dominicensis, Gray Kingbird, "PeTigre."
Very common everywhere.
67.
Pitangus gabbii, Gabb's Petarchy.
Rare; found only at Miranda.
68.
Myiarchus dominicensis, Dominican Crested Flycatcher, "Manuelito."
Common in most localities.
60.
Blacicus hispaniolensis, Hispaniola Flycatcher.
Common in most places.
70.
Lawrencia nanus.
Extremely rare; found at Miranda only.
71.
Elaina cherriei.
One specimen taken at Miranda.
72.
Corvus leucognaphalus, Crow, "Cuervo."
Abundant in the mangrove swamps, but so frequently hunted for food that they are shy and suspicious.
At San Lorenzo immense flocks of this crow flew back and forth from their roosts in the mountains to their feeding grounds in the swamps, at morning and evening, but always at a great elevation.
Their note resembles the words "Quiero casa carrajo," and the natives firmly believe that they can understand and converse in Spanish.
Their calls certainly more nearly resemble human speech than anything else.
73.
Corvus solitarius, Solitary Crow, " Cao."
Rarer than the preceding and confined to the interior.
The habits and notes are much the same as of the last.
74.
Icterus dominicensis, San Domingo Oriole, " Sigua calandre."
This bird, which is a charming songster, is common at all points visited.
It is found in small flocks, the young males, females and males keeping in separate flocks.
75.
Quiscalus niger, Black Grackle, "Chinchiling."
Abundant at all points visited, although mainly found in the vicinity of houses and settlements.
It is a noisy creature, continually uttering its loud, liquid cry of " Chiniling-ling-eeee. "
76.
Quiscalus sp?.
Among the Quiscali obtained were a number which to me appear distinct from niger, as they are much larger and heavier, with relatively stouter bill and feet.
The note is quite distinct from that of niger, and the natives state that they are different.
Dr. Hartert, of Tring, thinks, however, that the difference is merely sexual.
77.
Loximitris dominicensis, Dominican Grosbeak.
I found this pretty species abundant in certain localities near La Vega.
They were always found in large flocks in open pasture land, and in habits, flight and notes much resembled the American Goldfinch.
They fed on wild guava fruit.
They are shy, restless birds and are usually found in flocks of a dozen to twenty individuals.
Sometimes .they will remain until the intruder approaches within a few yards, while at other times they take flight long before one can approach within gunshot.
They are fond of perching on dead or partly dead bushes and trees in open prairie or pasture land, near rivers or on the edges of thickets, and invariably fly into the latter or across the former when disturbed.
78.
Loxigilla violacea, Violet Loxigilla, " Prieto" (male), " Chichigua " (female).
Abundant in all parts of the island.
79.
Tiaris bicolor, Grassquit, "Juana Mariica."
Common in most places.
In a few localities entirely replaced by T. lepida, as examples at El Valle and in some spots near La Vega.
80.
Tiaris lepida, Yellow-faced Grassquit.
Abundant at La Vega, El Valle and other localities, but entirely absent from the vicinity of Sanchez and Samana.
81.
Ammodramus savannarum intricatus.
This new species, described by Dr. Ernst Hartert from specimens obtained by me at El Valle, is very common on the broad grassy savannas of that region.
They are difficult to shoot as they flit up from the dense grass, to disappear in it again almost instantly.
The note is short, weak and insect-like, and greatly resembles that of our own Grasshopper Sparrow.
82.
Euphonia musica, Musical Euphonia.
All the specimens of this rare species which I obtained were killed from a single tree near Sanchez.
It was never seen or heard elsewhere.
The first specimen was taken on February 26.
It was feeding on a parasitic vine with greenish-white berries, resembling mistletoe.
A few moments later several additional birds arrived and commenced feeding, although none had ever been seen there before, and the tree was one from which I secured birds daily.
For several days thereafter the Euphonias could always be found on this tree, although none were ever seen elsewhere.
They are quiet, slow moving birds and crawl about in the deliberate, parrot-like manner of others of the genus.
The song is very clear, liquid and musical, closely resembling that of the White-throated Sparrow.
83.
Spindalis multicolor, Painted Tanager.
This rare and beautiful bird is a good example of the class of birds common at one season and very rare at others.
Not a single bird of this species was seen previous to January 22, 1907, on which date I obtained a single female at Sanchez.
No others were seen until February 26, and then, in a single week, over sixty specimens were secured within a radius of one hundred yards.
After the last date no others could be found.
All these specimens were feeding on the reddish-purple berries of a parasitic plant.
They are very curious birds in their habits, and quite different from any other species with which I am familiar.
They arrive and depart from their feeding grounds so suddenly and silently that one must watch constantly in order to see them.
While feeding they are also silent and stand almost motionless in one spot until all the berries within reach are consumed, when they dart suddenty to another spot and repeat the operation.
The males are fond of perching in dense thickets or among clumps of thickly growing air-plants, singing their feeble, insect-like song.
They are very shy and at the least movement or noise cease their notes and remain motionless, and if discovered at once dash into the thickest growth, where it is impossible to follow them.
84.
Phcenicophilus dominicanus.
Rare; only found at Miranda.
85.
Phcenicophilus palmarum, "Cuartoojos."
This beautiful tanager was abundant everywhere.
Its habits resemble those of a vireo more than those of a tanager.
86.
Calyptophilus frugivorus.
Rare at most places visited.
La Vega and Miranda only.
87.
Progne dominicensis, San Domingo Martin.
Common near the coasts.
88.
Petrochelidon fulva, Cuban Cliff-swallow, " Golondrina."
Common at most localities visited.
89.
Hirundo sclateri, Sclater's Swallow, " Golondrina verde."
This most beautiful species was met with only at La Vega, where it was abundant along the Camu River.
90.
Dulus dominicus, "Sigua palmyra. "
This odd bird is excessively abundant throughout the island.
It is gregarious and breeds in colonies in huge nests, which are usually placed in the royal palms.
They are noisy, restless creatures, and the cries from a nest of these birds during the breeding season can be heard for half a mile.
I was unable to determine whether each female had a compartment in the huge nests, or if they deposited their eggs and sat upon them at random.
I am inclined to think the latter is the case, however, as the eggs are scattered through the nest, with no apparent attempt at order, and I do not believe that even the parent birds could identify the young, that scramble back and forth throughout the nest.
The old nests are torn down bodily by the birds and often huge piles of old nesting materials are scattered on the ground beneath the palms where they breed.
When they wish to destroy a nest, several hundred birds will seize hold of the structure and by pulling and tugging will succeed in tearing it from its support.
They are curious, inquisitive creatures and always gather about and protest vigorously at the report of a gun.
91.
Vireo calidris, West Indian Vireo, "Qiiienfue"; "JuanChivi."
Common everywhere.
The two local names refer to the note.
The first, meaning "Who Goes There," is very appropriate, as the bird always becomes restless at one's approach, and repeats the short, pertinent query over and over, at times being answered by another vireo in notes that resemble the words "Juan Chivi."
92.
Coereba bananivora, Banana Creeper, " Sigua.''
Common in most places.
93.
Mniotilta varia, Black and White Warbler.
Abundant migrant.
91.
Parula americana, Parula Warbler.
Very common during migrations.
95.
Dendroica tigrina, Cape May Warbier.
Abundant.
Among the large series of specimens of this species which I obtained, there appear to be two forms; one, the common North American bird; the other, more richly colored, with distinctly chestnut breast, deep-yellow wing-bars, and rich — almost orange — yellow breast and belly.
As young birds in nestling plumage, as well as females containing eggs ready for the nest, were obtained, I consider it possible to separate the resident bird from the northern form as a local variety or subspecies.
96.
Dendroioa ccerulescens, Black-throated Blue Warbler.
An abundant migrant.
97.
Dendroica coronata, Myrtle Warbler.
Very common during migrations.
98.
D. maculosa, Magnolia Warbler.
A rare migrant, one specimen taken at Samana.
99.
D. dominioa, Yellow-throated Warbler.
A common species.
100.
D. vigorsii, Pine Warbler.
Common in pine forests of the interior where it breeds.
101.
D. palmarum, Palm Warbler.
An abundant migrant.
102.
D. discolor, Prairie Warbler.
A common migrant.
103.
Seiurus aurocapillus, Oven Bird.
An abundant species during the migrations.
104.
S. motacilla, Large-billed Water-thrush.
Common during migrations, but confined to the vicinity of salt water.
105.
S. noveboracensis, Small-billed Water-thrush.
Common, but seen only near fresh water.
106.
Geothlypis trichas, Maryland Yellowthroat.
Common.
107.
Microlegia palustris.
Said to be common in various parts of the country, but only met with once, at El Valle.
108.
Setophaga ruticilla, American Redstart, Abundant during migrations.
109.
Mimus dominicus.
San Domingo Mockingbird, " Ruisenor."
An abundant and charming songster.
110.
Mimooichla ardesiaoa, "Calandre,"" Cafielo," " Flotero."
A common but shy inhabitant of woods and thickets, this bird is more frequently heard than seen.
Its note is a charming, flute-like whistle.
111.
Turdus alioiae, Alice's Thrush.
A rare migrant.
One specimen taken near Sanchez.
112.
Myiadestes montanus, "Jilgiiero."
Not uncommon, but, like the other members of the genus, shy and retiring.
The mournful, flute-like song of this bird is often heard in the mountainous districts.
It is very difficult to see or shoot the birds.
Sanchez and Miranda.
A NEW SPECIES OF SCALPELLUM FROM BRITISH COLUMBIA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Soalpellum (Arcoscalpellum) columbianum n. sp.
Figs.
1, 2.
The capitulum is much compressed, more than twice as long as wide, white under a very thin smooth pale yellowish cuticle ; occludent border straight, carinal border evenly arched; greatest width about median.
There is no sculpture aside from indistinct growth-lines.
The scutum has parallel occludent and internal margins, and is rather narrow, with apical uril'o.
The tergum is long, triangular, its occludent margin short, arched, apex slightly recurved; the scutal and carinal margins are very long and nearly straight.
The carina is very long, with well-developed parietes of nearly equal width; dorsal face very narrow throughout, and deeply guttered, the high bordering ribs about as wide as the intervening groove or gutter.
It is more curved near the apex, which is situated high, about at the upper sixth of the carinal side of the tergum.
At its base the carina intrudes between the umbones of the carinal latera.
The upper latus is roughly trapezoidal, the scutal and carinal borders parallel, upper border oblique, basal border convex.
The rostrum is minute, oblong, slightly contracted in the middle.
The rostral latus is rather low, triangular, the upper and lower margins converging toward the rostral apex.
The inframedian latus is narrowly subtriangular, spreading above, narrowed towards the base.
The umbo is near or at the lower third.
The carinal latus is subtriangular, the umbo projecting at the base of the carina, far below the bases of the other plates.
The carinal border is straight above, becoming concave near the base.
The peduncle is short, covered with scales, of which there are about 16 rows of about 10 scales each.
They are not regularly arranged.
Length of capitulum 8.5, width 3.4, diameter 1.3 mm.
; length of carina 7.25 mm.
; length of peduncle 3 mm.
(fig.
1).
Length of capitulum 7.7, width 3.3 mm.
; length of carina 6.8 mm., of peduncle 4 mm.
(fig.
2).
Lowe Inlet, British Columbia.
Type (fig.
1) No.
38,697 U. S. Nat, 368 [July, Mus.
Cotype No.
1,843 A. N. S. P. (fig.
2).
A third specimen, from Burrard Inlet, is in the collection of Rev.
George W. Taylor, Biological Station, Wellington, B.
C, who collected the specimens.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
This species is known by three specimens of about equal size, which were preserved dry; hence no examination of the internal organs has been attempted.
It is related to Scalpellum soror Pils.
1 from deep water (634 fathoms), near the Galapagos Islands, but differs from that species by the more lengthened capitulum, the larger and somewhat differently shaped upper inframedian and carinal latera, the more compressed carina and shorter peduncle.
The carina of *S. columbianum reaches farther up on the tergum than is usual in Scalpellum.
S. sanctipetrense Pils.
2 is a broader species than S. columbianum, with a narrower inframedian latus, having the umbo at its upper third.
It was taken at San Pedro, California, in 50 to 75 fathoms.
S. gravelianum Pils., another Calif ornian species, is larger than S. columbianum, "the inframedian latus smaller with apical umbo.
1 Bulletin 60, U. S. National Museum, p. 42.
2 L.c, p. 39.
NOTE ON THE MORPHOLOGY OF FULGUR.
BY BURNETT SMITH.
On the whole the marine gastropods are singularly free from individual abnormalities or deformations, and this rule holds good for the two large conchs (Fulgur carica Gmelin and F. canaliculatum Say) which are washed upon our Atlantic Coast in such large numbers during the winter storms.
As far as the writer knows there is no record of an abnormal individual of F. carica.
F. canaliculatum, on the other hand, has furnished a small number of deformed specimens which have found their way into museums.
Some of these have been described and figured.
Deformations of the Shell in F. canaliculatum.
— In the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia there are two abnormal shells of this species.
In the first of these the branchial siphon has grown in such a way that its direction is almost at right angles to the axis of coiling of the spire.
From an examination of the exterior of the shell it is impossible to state with certainty the causes of this condition.
Whether it is the result of accident or of some truly pathologic condition cannot be determined.
1 The second specimen, collected at Longport, New Jersey, was figured and described by the present writer.
2 In this case the deformation can be traced to a break in the shell which occurred at a relatively early stage in the ontogeny.
The result of this has been a complete change in the whorl form and sculpture, the tubercles and shoulder keel disappear and we have a smooth, rounded whorl very similar to that of F. pyrum Dilw.
In this connectionit is interesting to note that paleontological data points to the descent of F. pyrum either from F. canaliculatum or from some very closely allied form, and furthermore that this descent was marked by the almost complete disappear1 "A Remarkable Monstrosity of Fulgur canaliculatum," C. W. Johnson and H. A. Pilsbrv, The Nautilus, July, 1895, p. 25, fig.
1.
2 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., June, 1902, p. 507, and April, 1905, p. 358, PI.
XXXI, fig.
10.
24 370 [July, ance (through acceleration) of the shoulder keel and the assumption of a smooth, rounded whorl outline.
In other words we have here a striking parallel of an evolutional process which has taken place slowly during geological time and resulted in the change of one species into another, with a change which has been caused by accident in the growth of an individual.
In this Longport specimen the animal when washed ashore fortunately possessed the soft parts intact.
A carefull examination of these disclosed no unusual condition other than the fact that the mantle was rounded instead of angulated.
The mantle edge was in noway peculiar and the penis, which in the normal male underlies the shoulder angle, was fully developed and exactly similar to that found in other individuals.
In fact no peculiarity of the soft parts could be detected which would account for the causes of the change in shell growth.
'Abnormality in the Soft Parts of F. canaliculatum.
— In the specimen just described the absence of a shoulder angle in the mantle and in the shell does not seem to be connected in any way with the underlying reproductive organ.
Fig.
1 shows the character of the normal, backward folded penis which lies immediately below the shoulder angle.
Inasmuch, then, as we have noted an individual with abnormal shell reproductive organs, it is of attention to another specimen collected by the writer which has an entirely normal shell but whose reproductive organs are imperfect (fig.
2).
In this case the penis is small, not being more than onefifth the usual length.
If this condition had been the result of an injury to the penis we might expect to find traces of its original condition at least around its base.
This, however, is not shown for the base is small, having about one-half the normal width.
We are therefore justified, it is believed, in regarding this as an instance of arrested development in a particular organ.
No other abnormalities in the soft parts were observed and, as stated before, the shell is in every regard similar to that of the normal individual.
The Penis of F. carica.
— Some interesting points in the comparaFig.
1 — Fulgur canaliculatum Say.
Diagram showing the normal male reproductive organ.
Fig.
2 — Fulgur canaliculatum Say.
Diagram showing undeveloped male reproductive organ.
but with normal interest to call tive morphology of F. canaliculatum and F. carica are furnished by a study of the male reproductive organ.
In the former species the penis is turned backward and folded (fig.
1).
It likewise retains the same width at the distal end as at the proximal, while in addition the terminal process is relatively large.
In F. carica, on the other hand, the organ tapers gradually from the proximal to the distal end and the terminal process is very small (fig.
3).
The penis though turned backward is not folded at the turn as in F. canaliculatum.
Gmelin.
Diagram Influence of the Soft Parts on Shell Form and showing the normal male reproductive Sculpture.
— No one, of course, denies that all organ.
the features of the gastropod shell, its form, size and ornamentation, are the result of changes in the lime-secreting soft parts.
A shoulder keel, for instance, is caused by a permanent angle, while a spine represents the effect of a temporary elevation of the mantle.
What is it though which produces this temporary bulging of the mantle edge?
What is the physiological meaning of the spine?
This is a question which has never yet been satisfactorily answered in spite of many ingenious suggestions.
One view, often expressed, holds that the spines represent an activity of the mantle edge which is manifested at recurrent reproductive periods.
This may indeed be true, but it is yet to be proved.
To apply the discussion to the forms considered in this paper we may ask: Have the spines in Fulgur carica any connection with either copulation or oviposition?
Though this question could probably be solved at one of our marine laboratories, its solution has apparently never been attempted.
In the absence, then, of definite information on the subject, it is believed that it is pertinent to outline here certain objections which might be raised against the above theory.
(1) If the spines are caused by oviposition there is a difficulty in explaining their equal development in both the male and the female.
(2) If the spines are caused by the act of copulation there is likewise a difficulty in explaining their exact similarity in the two sexes.
To extend our inquiry to Fulgur canaliculatum, it is first to be noted that this species has no true spines.
In this form the spines have disappeared, their former presence being shown by the small tubercles which have been crowded back by acceleration into the early whorls.
It is difficult therefore to believe that spine production in Fulgur is the result of reproductive activity when we regard these two Atlantic Coast species, with equally well developed reproductive organs and with presumably similar habits of oviposition, the one spineless and the other spined.
By an examination of the penis in the two species we can select no character in one which should produce a spine, or in the other case state why the protrusion of the penis should not produce a spine.
Considering now the shoulder keel, which seems to be the evolutional successor of the row of spines, we know by actual observation that the non-development of the penis in F. canaliculatum does not necessarily affect the keel, while, on the other hand, an injured keelless individual may possess the organ in its normal condition.
From these facts we can be reasonably confident that the shoulder keel has no connection with reproductive activity.
When it comes to the spines, however, we can but say that there are no characters in the penis of F. canaliculatum which we can definitely correlate with the spineless condition of the shell, and in F. carica we can assign to the different form of the organ no cause for the development of spines.
THE VEGETATION OF THE SALT MARSHES AND OF THE SALT AND FRESH WATER PONDS OF NORTHERN COASTAL NEW JERSEY.
BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER.
In a number of papers 1 of greater or less length, I have discussed the character of the vegetation of the New Jersey coast.
The observations recorded in these various brochures cover territorially the immediate coast from Bay Head in the north to Cape May in the south, and were based on field work and on the study of collections made for the several large herbaria in Philadelphia.
During a residence at Belmar, New Jersey, from August 12 to September 15, 1908, and July 7 to September 8, 1909, an opportunity was afforded of making collections, and of completing a survey of the vegetation of the New Jersey coast, begun in 1893, by a study of the coast from Manasquan Inlet north to Sandy Hook and along Sandy Hook Bay several miles westward from Highland Beach.
On several railroad trips from Belmar to New York City, I was able, by a familiarity with the coastal flora for over a period of fifteen years, to extend my observations, while on the moving trains, as far north as the Hudson River, notably at Red Bank on the Navesink River, at Matawan on Matawan Creek, along Newark Bay — in fact, such observations were made wherever undisturbed salt marshes were crossed by the Central Railroad of New Jersey and the Pennsylvania Railroad between Belmar and Jersey City.
So that, although the description given in this paper is confined to the coast between Manasquan Inlet and Sandy Hook Bay, where collections and a field study were made, yet it can be said that, from the car-window observations, 2 essentially 1 Harshberger, John W.: Plants for the Seashore, Garden and Forest, V: 45; An Ecological Study of the New Jersey Strand Flora, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1900: 623-671; Additional Observations on the Strand Flora of New Jersey, do., 1902: 642-669; Forest Growth at Wildwood, New Jersey, Forest Leaves, IX: 40, June, 1903; The Mutation of Hibiscus moscheutos, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1903: 326; The Formation and Structure of the Mycodomatia of Myrica cerifera, do., 1903: 352-362; The Comparative Leaf Structure of the Strand Plants of New Jersey, Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XLVIII: 72-89, with 4 plates.
2 This has been the favorite method of Dr. Roland M. Harper in his study of the coastal flora of the Southern States.
It is fairly satisfactory as extending the range of certain types of vegetation, but is unscientific unless checked by actual collections and study of a section of the plant formations investigated, as put into practice above.
the same type of salt marsh vegetation exists as far north as New York City.
Early in the field work it became apparent that my entire time and attention could be devoted to the salt marsh and pond vegetation of the region covered by this phytogeographic survey, for a study of the flora of the sea beaches and sand dunes, which are not extensive on the northern New Jersey coast, revealed the fact that the same association of shore and dune plants existed north of Manasquan Inlet as south of it as far as Cape May.
The vegetation of the salt marshes, salt ponds and fresh water ponds of the northern New Jersey coast present so many features of interest that it was fortunate that my undivided attention could be given to its study, so that the dune flora will be mentioned in what follows only when necessary in elucidating the composition of juxtaposed plant formations.
Physiography of the Region.
No mention is made of the ponds which are characteristic of the northern shore of New Jersey in the works that have been published on the physiography of New Jersey.
Several of them at Ocean Grove and Asbury Park have been surrounded by embankments, and are used for pleasure craft and for winter and summer carnivals.
Beginning at Manasquan Inlet in the south and traveling northward, one encounters the following bodies of water, which will be designated as open or closed to the ocean, and therefore fresh or salt : 3 Manasquan Inlet (open and salt).
Newberry Lake = Stockton Lake (open and salt, connected with Manasquan River).
Wreck Pond (open and salt in 1908; closed during the summer of 1909 and fresh until August 13, 1909, when it was opened to let in the salt water).
Spring Lake (closed and fresh).
Como Lake (closed and fresh).
Silver Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake).
Shark River Inlet (open, with strong tidal movement to and from the sea; closed on July 23, 1909, by the formation of a sand bar during a southeast storm; opened again August 12, 1909).
Sylvan Lake = Duck Pond (closed and fresh, but connected with sea at very high tides).
3 The following maps, published under the auspices of the Geological Survey of New Jersey, will be found useful: Atlas Sheet No.
9, Monmouth Shore, 1902; Navesink Sheet, 1901; Long Branch Sheet, 1901; Shark River Sheet, 1903.
Fletcher Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake).
Wesley Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake).
Sunset Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake).
Deal Lake (open by a closed sluice gate filled with sand and totally fresh).
Whale Pond = Takanassee Lake (open by a made channel, but entirely fresh).
Shrewsbury River (opening northward into Sandy Hook Bay and navigable to large excursion steamers).
All of these ponds, whether fresh or salt, have had essentially the same physiographic history.
They have all started as the outlets of larger or smaller streams, which flowed sluggishly seaward from a more elevated but still almost level interior.
Upon reaching the immediate sea coast, these streams had to contend with the sand of the traveling beaches, which form an almost unbroken line for a thousand miles from Montauk Point, on the eastern end of Long Island, to Jupiter Inlet, in Florida.
These sandy beaches never maintain the same relative position, but are moved about by the ocean currents and more fickle winds.
Since the beaches have been inhabited by summer and winter residents attempts have been made to stop the movement of the sand by the construction of jetties, stone walls and revetments, with some degree of success, but in the past the action of nature's forces were untrammeled.
The continuity of such beaches is broken only by the action of a river.
The Hudson River, flowing out of New York Bay, breaks the beach between the Navesink Highlands and Long Island.
There has been a big contest for supremacy between the beach and the river.
Coney Island has crept out like a crooked finger from the east, and Sandy Hook has traveled up several miles from the south.
But the great river has kept open its channel to the sea, notwithstanding the fact that Fire Island Inlet has drifted to the west at the average rate of three miles in sixty years, or nearly 260^feet per annum.
The encroachment of these bars threatens the channels which lead into the Narrows and New York Bay, so that until recently the largest steamers had to wait outside for the tides, while the least deviation from the channel insured their grounding.
All of the rivers south of Sandy Hook have had a similar contest with the sand beaches.
The Shrewsbury and Navesink rivers have had such a struggle to keep open their outlet to the sea.
4 The sandy beach, however, succeeded in * Consult the facsimile made from a survey map by Ratzer in 1769 and published in England in 1777, where these rivers are represented as open to the sea.
Also the papers by Prof. Lewis M. Haupt (Annual Report State Geologist of New Jersey, 1905: 27-95; 1907: 72-81), where by photographs and diagrams the changes of the New Jersey coast line are well illustrated.
closing the mouths of both rivers, which united together into a common stream, cutting its way past the Navesink Highlands and emptying into Sandy Hook Bay.
Even to-day the low sand beach is so narrow that often the sea breaks entirely over it, and this is particularly true of the portion immediately in front of the Navesink Highlands, for here it is barely wide enough to accommodate double railroad tracks and a carriage road, protected as they are from the full force of the ocean storms and high tides by a sea wall of stone and piling.
This narrow strip of sand, about six miles long, connects Sandy Hook with the mainland.
All of the smaller streams have been obliged to meet the same sand encroachment; but many of them, unable to keep their outlets open, have been converted into salt ponds, and if shut off from the sea for any length of time they have been gradually transformed into fresh water ponds.
Only two of the larger rivers have been equal to the task of cutting through the barrier beach, viz., Shark River and Manasquan River.
The outlet of Shark River several years ago had been almost closed, except a narrow channel which one could step across at low tide; but in the summer of 1908 the river had a new lease of life, its inlet opened wider than ever, so that naphtha launches drawing several feet of water entered from the open ocean.
During the summer of 1909, however, the sand barrier had traveled so far north that a southeast storm on July 23, 1909, completely closed the inlet.
5 We can arrange the inlets and ponds in a regular sequence, with reference to the stage which they have reached in their developmental history (see note 16), beginning as ocean inlets and ending in closed fresh water ponds.
In an earlier paragraph I have arranged all the known bodies of water in geographic order.
Their physiographic sequence is somewhat as follows: 1.
Salt Water 6 (Active Tidal Flow).
Manasquan River; Shark River (open until July 23, 1909, when it closed, to be opened by digging away the bar on August 13, 1909) ; Navesink and Shrewsbury Rivers ; Wreck Pond (open and salt in 1908, closed by a sand bar and fresh during 1909 until August 13, when the inlet was opened to the sea).
5 The only open inlet from Barnegat Inlet to Sandy Hook during the summer of 1909 after July 23, when Shark River Inlet closed, was at Manasquan.
Later, on August 13, 1909, Wreck Pond Inlet was opened, and on August 12 that of Shark River.
6 In all cases the character of the water was determined by a hydrometer that, read 0-50 degrees Beaume.
When the scale read degrees the water was considered undoubtedly fresh.
2.
Fresh Water.
(A) With Natural Surroundings — Wreck Pond (salt in 1908; fresh in 1909); Como Lake (sluiceway to sea); Sylvan Lake = Duck Pond (sluiceway to sea).
(B) With Artificial Surroundings (pleasure lakes) — Spring Lake; Silver Lake.
(C) With Protected Shores (pleasure lakes) — Fletcher Lake; Wesley Lake (sluiceway to sea); Sunset Lake; Deal Lake (sluiceway to sea, opened fifteen years ago); Whale Pond = Takanassee Lake (sluiceway to the sea).
The vegetation will be considered in the sequence which follows the physiographic history of the bodies of water mentioned above.
Wherever the tidal action is sufficient to keep the basins of the rivers in the first category filled with salt water, we have the level areas along their banks and the sand and muck islands formed by the action of the currents covered with a typic salt marsh vegetation.
Salt Marsh Formation.
The salt marsh areas in New Jersey with which we are concerned occur around the shores of Newark Bay, and extend for some distance along the Hackensack and Passaic rivers.
There is no salt marsh on the banks of the Hudson River, and none at present in New Jersey on New York Bay.
Salt marshes extend along Arthur Kill and inland along the shores of the rivers that empty into it.
Raritan Bay has its marshes where there are indentations and where small streams empty into it, and for several miles along both banks of the Raritan River there are extensive flats.
The shores of the Navesink River, except a few islands near its mouth, are destitute of salt marshes ; but the Shrewsbury River has low, swampy shores, covering some space between the highland and the shore.
Then comes a stretch of sea coast extending from North Long Branch to Bay Head, along which the mainland is washed by the ocean waves; the beach is abrupt, the sand is coarse and there is no marsh, except on the banks of Stockton Lake, Shark River, Wreck Pond and Manasquan River.
South of Bay Head the salt marshes back of the sand islands are very extensive, as described in previous papers.
Three kinds of salt marshes may be distinguished in New Jersey.
The first, and smallest in area, is that which is covered at every mean high tide.
The second in area is rarely covered at ordinary tides, but so little above mean high water that even the slightest rise, due to wind storm or moon changes, results in a partial covering with water.
The third type of marsh is that above mean high tide and more or less completely covered with vegetation.
All three kinds of marsh may be covered at the time of the Spring and Fall tides, and they are intersected by ditches, thorofares, and deeper boat channels, which give a characteristic appearance to the monotonous landscape.
The following analysis of a machine-cut sod, 10 x 10 x 27 inches, weighing 121 pounds, was made by Dr. Jacob G. Lipman, of the New Jersey Agricultural College, from material taken August 13, 1907, on a Raritan marsh opposite Sayreville: Original Weight, 121 pounds.
• Dry Weight, 23.39 " Moisture, 80.67 per cent.
Dry Matter, 19.33 " Upper Portion.
Lower Portion.
Nitrogen, 0.65 per cent.
0.63 per cent.
Organic Matter, .
.
.34.23 " 21.30 " Ash, 65.75 " 78.70 " The spongy, fibrous character of the upper portion of the sod, extending from twelve to eighteen inches and composed of roots and other vegetable matter, is gradually modified in its lower portion.
The distinct root structure tends to disappear, and with the darker color the entire mass becomes more compact and resembles muck rather than peat.
The proportionate amount of carbon and ash are both increased, while the proportion of organic matter is diminished.
7 The development of the salt marsh vegetation was studied in a number of places.
When the mud flats rise above the surface at any stage of tide plants begin to invade them.
Such a bar, uncovered in the Shrewsbury River five or six years ago, according to a fisherman who lived in the neighborhood, is now covered by a dense growth of Spartina stricta maritima, a grass which has large root-stocks that extend deep into the mud.
At the end of each year the tops of this wiry grass die, and new shoots come up the next Spring; mud and other materials are held at the base of the stems until the surface is gradually built up, when the first type of salt marsh passes into the second.
-Gradually other plants come in that have a root system adapted to growth under the conditions provided by mud covered and uncovered alternately by tidal flow, until the zonal arrangement of plants which 7 Smith, John B.: The New Jersey Salt Marsh and its Improvement, Bulletin 207, New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, 1907.
In one marsh the writer found the marsh soil above a gravel bed measured 82 cm.
(= 32J inches), and in a subsequent paper he will describe the appearance and constitution of 'each soil stratum.
characterizes the long established marshes arises.
This stage of development seems to mark the culmination of the salt marsh vegetation.
If the marsh rises above the level where the typic salt marsh plants can grow, a different kind of drainage of the marsh is established and the salt marsh plants are replaced by others.
The decay of the remains of the salt marsh plants produces holes here and there over the surface of the marsh, which, in the parlance of the sea coast farmer, becomes "rotten."
The composition of the salt marsh vegetation of the northern New Jersey coast can be illustrated best by a study of several typic kinds of marshes as they occur from Sandy Hook Bay south to Manasquan Inlet.
The description and the sketches which accompany them will illustrate the similarities, as well as the differences, induced by a difference in the edaphic factors of the several localities.
8 The salt marshes at Water Witch Park, a resort on the north slopes of the Navesink Highlands, along Sandy Hook Bay, along the channel edge of Plum Island, along the east front of the Highlands, a marsh island in the Navesink River, at Navesink Beach and at Normandie consist of Spartina stricta maritime/, (sp.
gr.
1.017-1.0185) where a muddy bottom is found, but it disappears where sand and gravel form the river bottom.
Associated with this salt grass in front of the Navesink Highlands are found Spartina polystachya, together with Atriplex kastata and Tissa marina.
At Navesink Beach is a low mud island formed five or six years ago, but now completely covered with Spartina stricta maritima.
The second inner strip consists of the low salt grass Spartina patens, together with patches of Salicornia herbacea, as at Water Witch Park, Scirpus pungens at Navesink Highlands, with a few specimens of Solidago sempervirens and Salicornia herbacea.
On the marsh island in the Navesink River, Spartina patens is associated with Distichlis spicata, covering nearly half an acre of the island, between which and the outer fringe of salt grass occur in mixed growth (sp.
gr.
1.0180) Limonium carolinianum, Spartina patens, Plantago maritima, 8 The edaphic conditions were determined during the summer of 1909 by means of a specific gravity hydrometer with a scale reading from 0.995 to 1.065, good to four decimal places by a secondary subdivision of the scale.
An attached thermometer allowed readings to be made from — 15° to +45° Centigrade.
By means of this hydrometer the character of the submerging water, or water from holes dug in the marsh soil, which influenced the roots or bases of each marsh species, was determined.
The results are given in specific gravities.
Absolutely pure water (distilled) reads 1.0000 on the scale, and sea water taken from the surf at Belmar at 21.1° C. reads 1.0215, so that the figures from the different marsh habitats approach closely the first figure if the water is fresh or the second figure if more or less saline.
The specific gravities, as far as possible, are given in parentheses, leaving the detailed results for a subsequent paper.
Salicornia mucronata, S. herbacea, Aster subulatus, Tissa marina,.
Suasda linearis and Chenopodium rubrum.
At Navesink Beach Salsola kali has invaded this strip of Spartina patens, and at Normandie Atriplex hastata and Suceda linearis ( = Dondia americana) form almost pure associations, while at this place, between the low dunes and the last mentioned marsh strip, are found associations of Lathyrus maritimus, mixed with Solidago sempervirens and Oenothera biennis.
The third inner strip of salt marsh at Water Witch Park is composed of an association of Scirpus pungens, Gerardia maritima, Pluchea camphorata and Cyperus erythrorhizos, while the fourth strip of vegetation is characterized by tall-growing herbs and shrubs, viz., Scirpus pungens, Panicum virgatum, Polygonum sagittatum, Hibiscus moscheutos, Eupatorium perfoliatum, Solidago sempervirens and Baccharis halimifolia, some which suggest proximity of fresh water conditions.
The salt marsh along the upper portion of Wreck Pond shows a modification of the outer fringing strip of Spartina stricta maritima.
Along the north shore of the Pond edaphic conditions control the distribution of plants, for the fringing growth of Spartina stricta maritima (sp.
gr.
1.014) is not continuous, but is more or less interrupted by tongues of Spartina patens, while in two places Scirpus pungens in two isolated associations is the character plant which touches the channel currents.
Back of the tall salt grass is found an almost continuous strip of Spartina patens, in some places mixed with Scirpus pungens and Panicum virgatum.
From the distribution of the plants and the direction of the shore lines, it would seem that the ocean currents are deflected against the north shore, where the salt marsh conditions are more typically found, while the fresh water of the river flows seaward along the south shore.
This, however, is not the determining factor in the replacement of Spartina stricta maritima along the south shore by Spartina patens, for the north shore has a muddy bottom and the south shore a gravelly one.
Plum Island Salt Marsh (Fig.
1).
Plum Island is found lying between the southern end of Sandy Hook and the Highlands of Navesink.
It is irregular in shape and consists of low sandhills surrounded by salt marsh, as indicated in Fig.
1, which also indicates the areas of marsh covered by this survey (I, II, HI).
Considering the composition of the salt marsh at the locality marked I on the sketch map of Plum Island, we find the outer strip (sp.
gr.
1.016) (Fig.
2) composed of a pure growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X), which is succeeded by 1909.]
381 & pure growth (sp.
gr.
1.0155) of Baccharis halimifolia (#), which wedges in between the outer strip and the third strip of Spartina patens <(V), which in most places usually succeeds the outer one of the taller salt grass.
Along the inner edge of the clumps of Baccharis halimiPlum Island *** Fig.
1.
— Plum Island in Sandy Hook Bay.
Dotted areas represent sandy; t , thickets and trees ; ^ , salt marsh ; numerals indicate areas treated of in this paper.
folia (0) occur pure associations of Su&da linearis (8) and Salicornia herbacea (H ), as indicated in the sketch.
Sand Dune Formation.
— Low sandy stretches back of the marsh are covered with typic dune plants, including the marram grass, Ammo382 [Aug., phila arenaria (A), Cakile edentula ( = C. americana) , Myrica carolinensis, and an extensive clump of Prunus maritima (P), with an occasional cedar, Juniperus virginiana (JV).
In places Myrica carolinensis and Hudsonia tomentosa cover extensive tracts in pure association, together with Lechea maritima.
Thicket Formation (TT).
— The thickets on the more elevated sandy parts of this island consist of Juniperus virginiana (JV), Prunus maritima (P), Myrica carolinensis, Baccharis halimifolia, Fig.
2.
— Portion of Plum Island Salt Marsh marked I in Fig.
1.
X, Spartina stricta maritima; 6, Baccharis halimifolia; H , Salicornia herbacea; 8, Suada linearis; V, Spartina juncea; dotted area = sand; A, Ammophila arenaria; t , thicket and forest growth.
together with the poison ivy, Rhus radicans, while the prickly pear cactus, Opuntia vulgaris, is abundant in the sandy stretches between the trees.
Plum Island is characterized by a number of salt lagoons.
The vegetation surrounding these lagoons was studied at two places (II 1909.]
383 and III), as indicated in the sketch.
The open water (sp.
gr.
1.016) of the first lagoon (II) is completely surrounded by a circumarea (sp.
gr.
1.016) of Spartina stricta maritima (X), in the midst of which arises an association of Spartina polystachya ($).
This circumarea is in turn surrounded by a continuous one (sp.
gr.
1.018) of Baccharis halimifolia (9), in front of which in two small associations (sp.
gr.
1.020) occur Spartina patens (V), together with Salicornia herbacea Fig.
3.— Survey of Salt Marsh on Plum Island, Sandy Hook Bay, marked II on the Sketch Map of the island.
X, Spartina stricta maritima; $, Spartina polystachya; O, Baccharis halimifolia; dotted area = sand; V, Spartina patens; H, Salicornia herbacea; P, Prunus maritima; A, Ammophila arenaria; t , thicket of trees.
(H ).
In one corner of the marsh (sp.gr.
1.0185), just back of the Baccharis halimifolia (#), is found an extensive association of Spartina patens (V), which touches the sandy slopes covered with Ammophila arenaria (A) and Solidago sempervirens.
This dune strip merges into the thicket formation previously described, where Prunus maritima (P) occupies the outer edge of tree growth (see Fig.
3).
384 [Aug., The second lagoon studied is a much smaller one, and is located on the map (Fig.
1) at the place marked III.
As with the other lagoon, it is completely surrounded by a circumarea of Spartina stricta maritima (X), and it is fringed on one side by a broad strip of Spartina patens (V).
Touching the tall salt grass on the other side (sp.
gr.
1.003) are found Salicornia herbacea (H ) and Limonium carolinianum (A), Atriplex hastata and Suceda linearis, while here and there occur clumps Fig.
4.
— Survey of Salt Marsh on Plum Island, Sandy Hook Bay, marked III in Fig.
1 .
X, Spartina stricta maritima; V, Spartina patens; EH , Salicornia herbacea; A, Limonium carolinianum; 0, Baccharis halimifolia; #, Solidago sempervirens; A, Ammophila arenaria; T , tree thicket.
of Baccharis halimifolia (0), at least four such having been seen in the immediate neighborhood of this lagoon.
This lagoon basin is surrounded by low sandy slopes, barren on one side, but covered with Ammophila arenaria (A) and Solidago sempervirens on the other, while a thicket where Rhus radicans is prominent occurs on the higher sand slopes (Fig.
4).
The water of this lagoon, although it is near the center of the island, remains salt, because at high tides it is replenished by the entrance of sea water, which enters through a valley-like depression running diagonally across the island.
Salt Marshes along Shark River.
Shark River (Fig.
5) rises inland about seven miles from the coast.
The inner line of its watershed is marked approximately by the New Jersey Southern Railroad, running between Farmingdale and Pine Brook near Eatontown.
It runs seaward in two main branches, forking from each other close to Shark River Bay.
The southern branch rises in elevated country (100-164 feet contour) near Shark River Station on the New Jersey Southern Railroad.
The northern branch rises near Centerville, and flows approximately southeast to join the other branch before they enter Shark River Bay, which is fresh at its head, but gradually becomes more salt near its narrow outlet to the sea, more or less surrounded by salt marshes or salt marsh islands (Fig.
5).
The bay is about two miles long from east to west.
The outlet is marked by the line of the New York & Long Branch Railroad, which crosses by a trestle bridge.
Below the trestle the river channel is scoured by the rapidly moving inflowing and outflowing tides, and its banks are lined with salt marshes now to be described.
The close proximity of these marshes to Belmar enabled me to visit them frequently on foot and in a boat, and to construct a map which represents the distribution of the salt marsh plants (Fig.
5).
The salt marsh vegetation of the south shore of the river, between the ocean and the trolley bridge, will be described in detail first.
The river channel (sp.
gr.
1.0212) is fringed by Spartina stricta maritima (X) where the muddy shore is submerged at high tide (sp.
gr.
1.0140).
This grass also fringes the marsh island, which was originally formed by tidal action.
Near the ocean front Spartina patens (V) forms a strip which is barely touched by salt water at high tide, while in different association and on the same level is found Scirpus pungens (Z) associated with Limonium carolinianum (A).
These plants are backed by low dunes covered with Triodia cuprea, Ammophila arenaria } Strophostylcs helvola, Lathyrus maritimus, Euphorbia poly go ni folia, Cakile edentula, Cassia nictitans, Ampelopsis quinque folia, Solidago sempervirens, Trifolium repens, T. hybridum and Xanthium echinatum.
In the bend of the river between B Street and D Street, Belmar, the 25 386 [Aug., salt marsh forms a V-shaped cusp ; the sides and apex of this projecting marsh are fringed with Spartina stricta maritima (X).
Enclosed by this grass, as shown in Fig.
5, are found pure associations as follows : 1, Spartina patens (V), Salicornia herbacea (EH ) and Limonium caroFig.
5.
— Salt Marshes along Shark River.
X, Spartina stricta maritima; V, Spartina patens; Z, Scirpus pungens; O, Distichlis spicata; 0, Baccharis halimifolia; J, Juncus Gerardi; ', Phragmites communis; E-i, Salicornia herbacea; n Gerardia purpurea; dotted areas = sand with typic dune plants ; t , tree thickets.
linianum in the low ground partially submerged at high tide; 2, Distichlis spicata (0), Salicornia herbacea (H ), and Limonium carolinianum in similar soil situations as the first associations and extending around the head of a slough at this point of the shore; 3, Juncus Gerardi (J), one patch of which surrounded a low dune covered with Panicum virgatum.
A high dune spit projecting into the marsh was covered by Panicum virgatum, Xanthium echinatum, (Enothera biennis and Ammophila arenaria.
The straight portion of the main shore, between this V-shaped marsh on the one hand and the marsh island on the other, is occupied by a narrow salt marsh, the vegetation of which consists of a frontal strip of Scirpus pungens (Z), out of which grow Baccharis halimifolia (V) and Hibiscus moscheutos.
This strip is continued by two pure associations of Spartina patens (V) (sp.
gr.
1.0069) and Scirpus pungens (Z) respectively.
A second shoreward marsh strip is occupied by fresh water marsh plants, such as Impatiens fulva ( = /.
biflora), Sambucus canadensis and Polygonum sagittatum, while the drier portions of this strip are characterized by Pa nicum virgatum.
The second short offset between D and E Streets, Belmar, is noted for a projecting tongue of low marshland completely surrounded by a growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X) in full flower (August), while surrounded by the taller salt marsh grass is a lower flowerless growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X), with two associations of Distichlis spicata (0) and one of Spartina patens (V).
Immediately back of this marsh tongue are found several strips of vegetation.
In front is an irregular association of Spartina patens (X) in soil merely wetted by the rising tide, but seldom entirely submerged.
Inside of this is a narrow association of Scirpus pungens (Z), succeeded in the drier shore soil by Baccharis halimifolia (#) and Hibiscus moscheutos (sp.
gr.
1.0000), while in places in this strip occur fresh-water swamp plants, such as Cicuta maculata, Peltandra virginica, Scirpus.
robustus and Impatiens fulva ( = /.
biflora).
Situated between the outer strip of Spartina stricta maritima (X) and the inner fresh water marsh strip occur longitudinally disposed three alternating associations, viz.
: two societies of Scirpus pungens (Z), between which is found an association of Spartina patens (V) and Scirpus robustus.
The gradual slopes of the shore above the marshland is covered with Panicum virgatum, Rhus radicans, Xanthium echinatum, Baccharis halimifolia (»), over which clambers Sicyos angulatus.
Vegetation of the Marsh Island.
The marsh island in Shark River with a slough at its western end is completely surrounded by Spartina stricta maritima (X), except in two places where the shore is a little more elevated.
At one place Baccharis halimifolia (#) and Panicum virgatum in dry sandy soil above tide action forms the border growth, while on the opposite side of the island in wetter soil is found the edge of an extensive association of J uncus Gerardi (J), which here touches the river channel.
An extensive growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X) covers the western end of the island surrounding the slough marked on the map (Fig.
5).
As this growth of salt grass is found in soil only covered at high tide in its development here, it is in marked contrast to its growth in the shore mud, which is never practically uncovered by tidal flow.
Elsewhere in the center of the island occur associations of 1, Distichlis spicata (O) with Limonium carolinianum (A); 2, J uncus Gerardi (J); 3, Spartina patens (V), with and without Iva imbricata, while a small dune is covered with Panicum virgatum and Solidago semper vir ens.
Vegetation of the North (Avon) Shore of Shark River.
Beginning at the beach front, where it covers a wide area of shore mud, and extending in a narrow strip to the trolley bridge, where it again widens, Spartina stricta maritima occurs as a border growth.
Just back of the ocean dunes, this association surrounds several smaller ones of Spartina patens (V) alone, Distichlis spicata (0) alone, Scirpus pungens (Z) alone and Phragmites communis ( * ), which grows at the inner edge of the marshland proper, as do Salicornia herbacea (tH ) and Limonium carolinianum, while in a smaller growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X) back of the border strip grow Scirpus robustus and Baccharis halimifolia (0).
Lying between this strip and the sandy shore, where Panicum virgatum is the character plant, is an extensive association of Scirpus pungens (Z).
As the shore bluff comes within a few feet of the water's edge for a considerable distance along the north shore of the river, the marshland narrows until only the fringing growth of Spartina stricta maritima occupies the shore line, with a narrow strip just back of it of Spartina patens (V), which as elsewhere grows in the soil rarely exposed to the full tidal action.
In a triangular corner formed by the bluff as one side of the triangle, the trolley road and the river as the other two sides, the marsh widens with a lagoon in its center.
The shore growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X) is continuous with the growth of the grass which surrounds the water of the lagoon (sp.
gr.
1.0180).
Forming conspicuous elements of the vegetation of this triangle, and here as elsewhere to be distinguished by the color of the plants, are several associations of marsh species.
One of the largest associations in contact with the bluff is composed of Scirpus pungens (Z), surrounding Iva imbricata and Hibiscus moscheutos (sp.
gr.
1.0000), while Pluchea camphorata mixes its growth with the sedge, as does J uncus Gerardi (J), which surrounds a low sand dune covered with Panicum virgatum.
In three isolated areas is found an association of Spartina patens (V), while back of Spartina stricta maritima (X) on the roadside of the lagoon occurs an association of J uncus Gerardi (J), at one end of which Limonium carolinianum enters the association.
At the head of the lagoon, at the inner edge of the marsh soil, Cyperus erythrorhizos and Polygonum ramosissimum, which indicate beginning fresh water conditions, have established themselves.
Outside of the influence of the salt water, where the inner edge of the salt marsh (sp.
gr.
1.0000) owes its wetness to rains and fresh water springs, just in front of the river bluff occur plants of fresh water swamps, such as the shrubs Alnus serrulata, Pyrus arbutifolia, Clethra alnifolia and the herbs Vernonia noveboracensis , Eupatorium purpureum, Polygonum sagittaturn, Osmunda cinnamomea, Sagittaria variabilis, Cicuta maculata and Lobelia cardinalis.
Transition to Fresh Water Ponds.
Upper Wreck Pond.
— We have seen that the appearance of Spartina patens indicates that the soil is only periodically flooded with salt water.
Above the carriage road, where the forest approaches the water's edge, Spartina stricta maritima gradually thins out, and its place as a border plant is taken by Scirpus pungens (sp.
gr.
1.000), Scirpus lacustris and Spartina polystaehya .
But the persistence of this grass here, where the fresh water conditions are becoming pronounced, is perhaps explainable by the fact that the periodic entrance of salt water prevents the replacement of this grass entirely by typic fresh water vegetation, which is unable to survive a short exposure to salt water; while Spartina stricta maritima not only withstands salt water, but actually thrives in it, and also adapts itself to growth in water which varies its salinity within wide limits, becoming almost fresh when the inland rains are especially heavy or when the inlets of the streams are closed by sand bars during severe storms, as during the summer of 1909.
During this summer the outlet of Wreck Pond was closed to the sea until, as indicated by the hydrometer, the water became entirely fresh, and yet Spartina stricta maritima and Spartina patens persisted in their usual habitats, flowering as usual, even when partially submerged by the overflow of fresh Avater during heavy summer rains.
9 However, before we reach the place where this change 9 This matter, as indicated by the sp.
gr.
hydrometer, will appear in a later paper, but it should be emphasized here that salt water plants stand submergence in fresh water much better than fresh water plants in salt water.
occurs, the following marsh strips may be recognized, beginning with the outer one, which consists of Spartina stricta maritima (sp.
gr.
1.003).
Then comes a strip of Spartina patens and a middle one of Panicum virgatum, filled in between with Spartina patens and S. polystachya.
In the shoreward strip at the edge of the woods, where the salt marsh vegetation merges with the fresh water vegetation (sp.
gr.
1.000), occur clumps of Cicuta maculata, Iris versicolor, Hibiscus moscheutos, Polygonum sagittatum, P. pennsylvanicum, P. arifolium, Eryngium virginianum, Ptilimnium capillaceum, Hydrocotyle umbellata, Lobelia cardinalis, Convolvulus sepium and Impatiens fulva (visited by humming birds).
The third strip may be considered to be the tension one, where there is a gradual blending of the salt water and fresh water vegetation.
As one ascends the stream the salt marsh plants dwindle, until not a trace of them is left and the marsh becomes entirely a fresh water marsh, covered with plants which lower down merely fringed the inner margin of the salt marsh.
Sylvan Lake is the receptacle for the fresh water of a small stream which rises in two forks in Mt.
Prospect Cemetery, west of Ocean Grove (80 feet contour).
These two branches unite in a small pond at Ocean Grove Heights, and the main stream flows seaward a distance of a mile, until it enters Sylvan Lake (Duck Pond of the survey map), which is about three-quarters of a mile long.
As Sylvan Lake is shut off from the ocean by a low sand bar, with a timbered sluiceway still connecting it with the sea during high tides, it is sometimes supplied with salt water, which enters the pond by means of the usually dry sluiceway, which has been left as a means of keeping the water level of the lake within certain limits.
We can divide the vegetation of the lake basin into two main divisions: (1) The vegetation uninfluenced or rarely influenced by salt water, and growing in the western part of the pond where the water is kept fresh by the stream which enters at this end, and (2) the vegetation influenced more or less directly by the sea water, when it enters by the sluice during exceptionally high tides, which may rise high enough to enter the pond only three or four times each year, and in the winter time, when the vegetation in the pond, and surrounding it, being in its winter state, would be very little injured by an overflow of salt water.
Consequently the water of most of the pond, especially near the landward end, is fresh, while near the seaward end it is usually fresh, but brackish only after the sea water has entered the pond during some high side, enabling a few salt marsh species to persist, although generally subjected to fresh water conditions (see note 9).
One, therefore, notices the entire absence of such typic salt plants as Spartina stricta maritima, Distichlis spicata, Salicornia herbacea, S. mucronata, Limonium carolinianum and Suceda linearis, while the remnant of this true salt marsh vegetation left at the margin of the pond, owing to the occasional entrance of salt water, consists of such plants as Spartina patens and J uncus Gerardi.
Vegetation in Proximity to the Ocean.
The low ground margining Sylvan Lake at its seaward end is occupied by Scirpus pungens at the water's edge, while back of it occur Spartina patens.
Hibiscus moscheutos and J uncus Gerardi, together with Elodes virgin tea and J uncus canadensis.
The tall reed grass Phragmitcs communis forms a pure association at this level, as does also Cladium mariscoides mixed with.
Solidago sempervirens.
The cattail, Typha angustifolia, is found in small cove-like indentations of the shore, while Nymphcea odorata with Panicum crus-galli occur in small sloughs found here and there along the outer shore line.
The low sand levels above the marsh are covered with Myrica carolinensis, in association with Panicum virgatum, Baccharis halimifolia, Strophostyles helvola, Baptisia tinctoria, Vaccinium atrococcum, Ilex glabra and Prunus maritima, extending back to the edge of the woods behind what was formerly, before grading operations altered the original conditions, the dune complex of my earlier papers.
The following plants, Vaccinium atrococcum, Ilex glabra and Baptisia tinctoria, which enter the dune formation, may be considered to be elements which have invaded the formation from an inland pine barren source of supply.
Vegetation Controlled by Fresh Water.
Early in my study of the flora of Sylvan Lake my attention was directed to the north shore, because the south shore of the lake had been altered too much by the encroachment of the building line of Avon-by-the-Sea.
Only a few patches of the original vegetation was left, and so much altered as not worth a detailed study.
Three strips of vegetation can be recognized along the northern shore of the lake, and in the description of them which follows the plants will be mentioned in the order in which they were collected in walking from the western end to the eastern end.
This plan is pursued because it was found impossible to recognize associations of the species, because they were so mixed together, especially in the second strip, as not to be separable into distinct groups.
The lake is almost choked with a green alga, Cladophora flavescens, which has invaded the water lily associations and threatens to exterminate them.
Not only that, but the lake for boating purposes has been ruined by the floating masses of Cladophora which at times of low water form mats of algal felt, and unless copper sulphate is used to destroy this plant the lake will be converted gradually into a fresh water marsh.
The water's edge is margined generally by Panicum crus-galli and Scirpus pungens, with which in close association were found, but in varying abundance, Panicum virgatum, Scirpus pungens, Typha angustifolia and Nympluea odorata, which formed in most places the outward edge of this strip, growing in the shallow water in several places and extending its growth out over the surface of the lake.
The only plant of the second strip which may be said to grow in pure association is Cladium mariscoides, which forms back of Panicum crus-galli of the first strip a growth in some places 100 feet long, extending back to drier soil.
Associated with this sedge grow Polygala cruciata and Sabbatia angularis.
The second strip, however, is characterized by the presence of Gerardia purpurea, Rhexia rirginica, Drosera linearis, D. filiformis, Fuirena squarrosa hispida, Panicum virgatum, Polygonum sagittatum, Hibiscus moscheutos and Lobelia spicata.
In a few wet places sphagnum occurs, and here grow Vaccinium macrocarpon and Drosera filiformis.
Fresh Water Pond Formations.
When the sand bar formed across the end of an inlet has become permanent, the lake formed back of it gradually becomes converted into a basin holding nothing but fresh water (instance Wreck Pond in 1909, with salt marsh species), and the vegetation becomes eventually that found in fresh water ponds and along their margin.
Three such fresh water lakes were studied carefully on the northern New Jersey coast, viz.
: Como Lake, a small uncharted pond back of Como Lake and formerly part of it, and Silver Lake.
Incidentally in this survey Bradley Lake and Wesley Lake at Ocean Grove and Sunset Lake in Asbury Park were visited, but it was found that the banks of these lakes were sodded with cultivated grasses and planted with shrubs for ornamental purposes, so that these lakes, although formed in a similar manner to the ones studied, are omitted from further consideration.
Silver Lake.— Silver Lake is situated in the borough of Belmar and is entirely surrounded by summer cottages (Fig.
5).
It is less than half a mile long, and its banks have been sodded, the undergrowth has been removed and the tree vegetation, notably Pinus rigida, has been left, giving a park-like aspect to the surroundings.
The authorities periodically clear the lake of all vegetation, in order to provide for the water carnivals which are held some time during the summer months.
But yet the vegetation grows almost as rapidly as it is removed, and constant vigilance must be exercised to prevent the filling of the shallow lake basin.
The most persistent of these plants is Potamogeton perfoliatus, which forms extensive associations here and there in the quieter portions of the lake.
Another persistent plant is Elodea (Philotria) canadensis, which grows so fast as to choke portions of the lake.
Upon this aquatic plant grow epiphytically, according to a study of microscopic material collected in the summer of 1908, a blue-green alga, Mastigonema sejunctum, which lives in tufts or soft mosses on the leaves of Elodea, as also a diatom, Gomphonema constrictum.
The filaments of Mastigonema are rather rigid, straight and spuriously branched, and their apex is delicately hair-like, while heterocysts are found at the base of each of the branches.
The diatom, Gomphonema constrictum, has wedge-shaped frustules in the girdleview, and in the specimens studied they were attached by their inferior smaller extremities to a system of hyaline threads that form bound together a stalk, which attaches them to the Elodea leaf.
The fresh water plankton of this lake was found to consist in September, 190S.
of Spirogyra crassa (which lives over the winter), Anaboena flos-aquv var.
circinalis and Scenedesmus obliquus.
The water silk, Spirogyra crassa, formed floating masses near the shore (found by me also in April, 1909), while Anabama flos-oqim var.
circinalis about the end of August was in such abundance as to suggest "the flowering of the mere."
Its beaded filaments formed most beautiful coils or spirals.
Como Lake.
— Como Lake will be treated in a few years like those at Asbury Park and Ocean Grove, as the building of summer houses is fast approaching it, so that these observations will preserve to botanic posterity the only statement as to the original flora which surrounded it.
Following the south shore first, we can recognize four strips of plants, viz.
: (1) the water strip; (2) the wet ground strip ; (3) the dry ground strip ; (4) the forest strip.
The first two strips are practically the same, because the vegetation of the wet soil encroaches upon the water surface.
The west shore is somewhat gravelly and sandy, and here I found, beginning at the western end of the pond and walking eastward, the following characteristic plants: Agrostis hyemalis ( = A. scabra), Polygonum sagittatum, P. acre, Cyperus erythrorhizos (abundant), Panicum crus-galli (occasional), Scirpus pungens.
Then at the eastern end, I noted in the water strip Juncus canadensis, J. debilis, Cyperus dentatus var.
ctenostachys , C. erythrorhizos, Scirpus pungens, Polygonum sp., Panicum crus-galli.
On a small rounded bar in the lake near the ocean grew in the summer of 1908 Panicum crus-galli, Polygonum acre, Cyperus erythrorhizos, C. Nuttallii.
Where a small spring enters the lake, I found Nasturtium officinale, Polygonum acre and Spirogyra sp.
The third strip on the south side of the lake consists of plants which occupy low sandy slopes.
Such are Myrica carolinensis , Solidago sempervirens, Panicum virgatum, Strophostyles helvola, Rhus copallina, Baptisia tinctoria, Cyperus dentatus (proliferated sedge), according to my notes.
The seaward end of the north shore has been graded.
Beginning at the edge of the improvements(?)
and walking westward along the shore, the following strips of vegetation were recognized and studied: (1) the marsh strip at the edge of the water; (2) the dry sandy strip; (3) the forest strip.
The marsh strip, proceeding westward, is characterized by Scirpus pungens, Polygonum acre, Cyperus erythrorhizos, Polygonum sagittatum, Gerardia purpurea, Ptilimnium capillaceum, Panicum crus-galli (nearly always at the water's edge).
A small stream which enters between the pine woods showed in its expanded portion the white water lily, Nymphcea odorata, and at the edge Panicum crus-galli, Polygonum sagittatum and P. acre..
Passing a sharp bend of the shore the marsh vegetation increases in density with the association of Scirpus pungens, Gerardia, purpurea, Polygonum acre, P. sagittatum, Ptilimnium capillaceum, Hypericum canadensis, Bidens frondosa, Hibiscus moscheutos, Scirpus cyperinus, Panicum crus-galli.
The bur reed, Sparganium euycarpum, forms a small association at the western end of the lake, while in front of the trolley embankment, in water six inches deep, was found an association of Panicum crusgalli, Cyperus erythrorhizos and Glyceria obtusa.
Here the marsh expands into a triangular area, where I collected Polygonum sagittatum, P. acre, Cladium mariscoides, Scirpus pungens (abundant), Eryngium virginianum, Solidago tenuifolia, Panicum virgatum, Gerardia purpurea, Ptilimnium capillaceum, Iris versicolor, while in another portion of the marsh, alternating with the dry ground, grew Alnus serrulata, Aspidium thelypteris, Cladium mariscoides, Aster subulatus and Hibiscus moscheutos.
The second strip, or that of the treeless dry ground, is characterized by its extensive clumps of Panicum virgatum, with which grows Polygala cruciata.
Separated from Como Lake by a carriage road, and situated in the angle which this road forms with the main or trolley road, is a small triangular pond of fresh water, completely covered with a smallflowered variety of the white water lily, Nymphcea odorata, with the margin of the pond fringed with a circumarea of Panicum crus-galli.
Como Lake proper has relatively no growth of water lilies, except as previously noted in a small embayment of the shore, where a small stream enters from the pine woods, and yet in the pond, cut off from the main lake by the construction of the carriage road, it is the dominant and exclusive plant.
Fresh Water Swamp Formation.
Como Swamp.
— West of the trolley road is a swamp (Fig.
6) which occupies the area covered formerly by a western extension of Lake Como.
but cut off from it by the construction of the wagon road.
As this swamp is fed by a small stream about three-eighths of a mile long, there is a partially open channel running through the middle of it, and a small fresh water lagoon has been formed at one side by a choking of the former lake basin with vegetation.
This extremely wet swamp illustrates the last stage in the conversion of a salt water pond with its salt marsh vegetation, first into a brackish pond with the suppression of most salt water plants (Sylvan Lake stage) and then into a fresh water lake with its characteristic vegetation (Como Lake stage), and finally the invasion of the shallow lake with vegetation peculiar to fresh water swamps (Como Swamp stage, Fig.
6).
The channel (ditch) is blocked in its lower portion by sedges and grasses, in the midst of which we find an association of Potamogeton sp.
(f), Polygonum acre (*) and Scirpus pungcns ( + ) surrounding a smaller association of Sparganium eurycarpum (= Fig.
6).
On the north side of the ditch we find an association of Leersia oryzoides (±), Panicum crus-galli ( I ) and a few scattered clumps of Typha angustifolia (9 ).
A triangular-shaped association comprises Nymphcea (Castalia) odorata (O), Scirpus pungens ( + ), Panicum crus-galli (I), with a few scattered specimens of Scirpus lacustris (©), and the arrangement of the plants suggests that the water lilies represent the original facies which has been invaded by other specis.
The cranberry, Vaccinium macrocarpon (M), forms a pure association at the edge of the marsh, while nearby J uncus canadensis (cT), Polygonum acre ( • ), P. sagittatum ( T ), Nymphcea odorata (©) are in association (see Fig.
6).
Along the north edge of Como Swamp two other associations are found, one consisting of the admixture of Scirpus pungens ( + ), Poly396 [Aug., gonum acre ( * ), P. sagittatum ( T ), Xyris caroliniana (* ), Eryngium virginianum (E), Sabbatia angularis (A), while the other association comprises Scirpus pungens ( + ), Rhynchospora glomerata (|), Polygonum acre ( ' ), Ptilimnium capillaceum (</*), Juncus canadensis (cT).
The swamp on the south side of the ditch is more extensive, surrounding a central lagoon with water lilies (O).
Here also are found pure associations of Typha angustifolia (9), Rhynchospora glomerata (t),.
'I' l> + £+.
* t Q fflTOTv ..' 4 "■+•+•00 •.-.©:" •:•".■.
v-.o ©*£:*#** ^ > /** * * » • 'a*' 1-61 + %\' SE 'e *i/us± 4 E<+/ *r >1 I l N ■©!
!><* i i i *i *i m. t •^» +•?
t • „ ---,--„---•i ' i I f | ± i '© ,/ *4 * E y * *A + E X^ * .,'iV-A ,!t,i;:^^ /Ditch Road Road Road Fig.
6.
— Survey of Como Fresh Water Swamp, t , thicket; 0, Nymphcea odorata; 9, Typha angustifolia; f, Potamogeton sp.
; |, Panicum crusgalli; =, Sparganium eurycarpum; ± Leersia oryzoides; t , Polygonum sagittatum; +, Scirpus pungens; ©, Scirpus lacustris; E, Eryngium virginianum; *, Xyris caroliniana; S, Solidago tenui folia; M, Vaccinium macrocarpon; (5\ Juncus canadensis; f, Rhynchospora glomerata; A, Sabbatia angularis; ' , Polygonum acre; (/>, Ptilimnium capillaceum.
Scirpus lacustris (©), Ptilimnium capillaceum (<P) and several mixed associations of species, as illustrated in Fig.
6.
The largest association is west of the lagoon ; here occur Polygonum acre ( * ) associated with Solidago tenuifolia (8) and Nymphcea odorata (O).
Another association is composed predominantly of Juncus canadensis (cT), another of Scirpus pungens ( + ), while Panicum crus-galli (I) and Leersia oryzoides (±) fill the interspaces between some of the aforementioned groups of species.
Hibiscus moscheutos occurs sparingly along the edge of the swamp.
Bidens chrysanihemoides appears abundantly in the Fall of the year.
Relation of Salt Marsh to Salt Water.
Sodium chloride in solution is known to have strong plasmolytic properties, removing water from living cells, when these aie subjected to its action, and hence causing the protoplasm to contract away from the cell walls.
Ordinary plants are soon killed when exposed to the action of salt or salt water, and yet we have a group of plants, the so-called halophytes, which possess great powers of resisting the action of sodium chloride in solutions as strong as sea water.
The sea beach plants are excluded from consideration, because Kearney 10 has shown that the salt content of the shore sand is a negligible quantity, and that some cultivated soils contain a larger percentage of •common salt than the beach sand, so that of the strand plants the salt marsh species are the only ones which belong to the halophytic class of plants.
Schimper" has called attention to the fact that any considerable amount of salt in the cell sap is detrimental to the plant, and that this fact explains the probable cause of the characteristic halophytic modifications, which have to do with reducing the transpiration current, which accounts for the abundant absorption of water with various salts of the soil in solution.
Warming, however, replied that the reduction of transpiration would cause the increase of the salts in the cell sap, and he suggested a theory, which is now the current one, viz., that the protective contrivances, such as hairs, sunken stomata, succulency, etc., against strong transpiration are necessary in halophytic plants, because absorption of water from a salt solution is slow and difficult.
In the absence of experimental data which will enable us to arrange the salt niarsh plants of New Jersey into a series with reference to their greater or less power of resistance to salt water, 12 the following general 10 Kearney, T. H. : Are Plants of Sea Beaches and Dunes True Halophytes?
The Botanical Gazette, XXXVII: 424-436, June, 1904.
11 Schimper, A. F. W.: Ueber Schutzmittel des Laubes gegen Transpiration, besonders in der Flora Java's.
Sitzb.
Acad.
Berlin, 1890: 1045; Die indo-malayische Strandflora.
Botan.
Mittheil.
aus den Tropen, l 3 : 1-204.
13 This was written in 1908.
During the summer of 1909 the writer by means of a hydrometer (see previous note) made a detailed study of the various salt niarsh plant habitats.
observations may be made.
Evidently, as it is exposed along the channels which it fringes to the full effect of salt water (sp.
gr.
1.0185), the salt grass Spartina stricta maritima is the best adapted of all the species studied to the halophytic conditions under which such plants grow.
Second in order of resistance to the detrimental influence of saline solutions should be mentioned Spartina patens, Salicornia herbacea, S. mucronata, Limonium carolinianum (sp.
gr.
1.018), 13 Baccharis halimifolia, Distichlis spicata and Juncus Gerardi.
While to a third group of still less resistant halophytic plants, I would include Typha angustijolia, Scirpus robustus, Gerardia purpurea, Solidago sempervirens and Atriplex hastata.
Such plants as Hibiscus moscheutos, Cicutamaculata, Peltandra virginica, Panicum crus-galli and Sparganium eurycarpum, mentioned in the foregoing account, are plants indicative of fresh water marsh conditions, and are not to be included among the true halophytes.
Without experimental data, which I will later supply in a detailed manner, with reference to the halophytism of all of the above-mentioned plants, the observations of Ganong 14 and Graves 15 have an important bearing upon our study of the distribution of the vegetation of the salt marshes of northern New Jersey.
Ganong has found that the root hairs of Salicornia herbacea can endure a 100 per cent, sea water without plasmolysis ; those of Suwda maritima 80 per cent.
; those of Plantago maritima 70 per cent.
; while those of Atriplex patulum withstood 50 per cent, sea water.
Graves found that the root hairs of Ruppia maritima could stand a 105 per cent, sea water with occasionally very slight plasmolysis, while with 110 per cent, sea water it was rather slow, but finally distinct.
He also used solutions of 2.5, 3 and 5 per cent, sodium chloride with the following results.
In the 2.5 per cent, solution, the leaves of Ruppia maritima did not plasmolyze; in the 3 per cent, solution they plasmolyzed in 4-5 minutes; in 5 per cent, solution in about 1 minute.
Ordinary ocean water contains about 3.5 per cent, of salts, and it would seem, therefore, on a priori grounds, that the water of New Haven harbor does not contain as much salts as the 3 per cent, quantity of sodium chloride in the above experiment.
It shows, however, that the adaptation of halophytic plants is within a narrow limit of salinity, and if the salinity 13 According to my hydrometer investigations, to be published later in detail, the sp.
gr.
of sea water is 1.0215 at 21.1° C. 14 Ganong, W. F. : The Vegetation of the Bay of Fundv Salt and Diked Marshes, Botanical Gazette, XXXVI: 161-186, 280-302, 349-367, 429-455.
15 Graves.
Arthur H. The Morphology of Ruppia maritima, Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, XIV: 59-170, December, 1908. of the water varies within wider limits such plants are checked in their growth or completely exterminated.
This was emphasized in our discussion of the salt marsh vegetation found in Upper Wreck Pond, and it accounts for the limitation of fresh water species when the water in which they grow reaches a certain degree of salinity.
The study of the salt marshes, salt ponds and fresh water lakes of northern coastal New Jersey has developed many features of phytogeographic importance.
The origin of the lakes and ponds, it has been proved, is due to the advance of sand dunes across the outlet of various streams that have their rise some distance inland.
Most of the larger streams, that have kept open their outlets to the sea, are lined for some distance from the ocean by salt marsh vegetation, which shows a number of characteristic plants in pure association.
As the sand bar encroached upon the outlets of the streams the water became somewhat brackish, and the conditions favorable to the salt marsh species became more precarious, one species at a time disappearing with the decrease of water saltiness.
Finally, near the heads of several of the bays, and also in several of the smaller ponds, the water becomes more and more fresh, and we find a replacement of salt marsh plants by those accustomed to grow in or near fresh water streams.
Similarly salt ponds have by a slow process of change been converted into fresh water lakes, and the vegetation has changed accordingly with the altered physiographic conditions.
Instead of the vegetation of the New Jersey coast remaining of a fixed type, we can trace, by a comparison of the several plant formations in various conditions of development, the stages through which the vegetation has passed in reaching its present aspect, and the age of these different associations of plants can be determined by comparing the marsh areas given on the present survey maps with those indicated on the older survey maps of the inlets made at various times in the past by engineers for harbor improvement.
16 The development has been a progressive one, and all in a certain direction from an original salt marsh vegetation to a fresh water and dry land flora.
If at any time in this orderly sequence the sea should break through the barrier of sand, or remove it by the ordinary physiographic processes which are constantly active in the region, then there is a reversal of the orderly progression of one type 16 See for this purpose the illustrated paper by Prof. Lewis M. Haupt, on "Changes along the New Jersey Coast," Annual Report State Geologist of New Jersey, 1905: 27-95; 1907: 72-81, and for methods of using similar survey maps see Otto E. Jennings, "A Botanical Survey of Presque Isle, Pa.," Annals of the Carnegie Museum, V: 294-305 et seq.
of plant formation to another and the original salt marsh conditions are restored.
This reversal may be sudden, if the sand barrier is destroyed in a single storm, or it may be gradual, if by a shifting of the ocean currents the sand is removed slowly away from the outlet of the stream or lake, as has happened within the past two years at the mouth of Shark River, which was a few years ago almost closed from the sea, and closed completely by a southeast storm on July 23, 1909.
In the sudden reversal by a heavy storm, all of the fresh water plant formations would be destroyed and the shore line would be made barren for a number of years, until by the usual methods of plant dispersal and invasion the salt marsh plants again take possession of the river banks, or line the shores of the bays and estuaries that may have been formed.
If by the second method the reversal has taken place, then by the water becoming gradually brackish and finally salt, the fresh water plants will slowly lose their hold as the soil which they have occupied is invaded by the typic salt marsh plants.
Man, however, has worked greater changes in the original vegetation of northern coastal New Jersey than all of the agencies previously outlined have produced.
He has cut down the forests, spanned the rivers with bridges so as to disturb their natural flow, built railroads and wagon roads, constructed jetties and stone revetments, filled in ponds and ditches, spread kerosene over marshes to kill mosquitoes, and altered the drainage areas until in some places no trace of the original vegetation is left.
