viroS 





rrrrfl/'rtJ 



: 







11 





m 











Return to 

 LIBRARY OF MARINE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORY 



WOODS HOLE, MASS. 



Loaned by American Museum of Natural History 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



UC 



1872. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., Wm. S. Vaox, 



Robert Bridges, M.D., Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 

 Corner Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1872. 




Hall of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, March 4, 1873. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1872 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : 





SAMUEL B. HOWELL, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PHiLAr>Ki,pni a : 



COLLINS, PRINTER. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Berthoud, E. L. On Prehistoric Human Art from Wyoming and Co- 

 lorado 46 



Bland, Thos. and W. G. Binney. Notes on Lingual Dentition of Cer- 

 tain Species of American Land Shells 135 



Conrad, T. A. Descriptions and Illustrations of Genera of Shells. ... 50 

 Descriptions of a New Recent Species of Glycimeris, from Beaufort, 



N. C, and of Miocene Shells of North Carolina 216 



Cooper, J. G. On New Californian Pulmonata, etc 143 



Cope, E. D. List of the Reptilia of the Eocene Formation of New 



Jersey 14 



Synopsis of the Species of the Chelydrinae 22 



On an Extinct Whale from California 29 



Coues, Elliott. Studies of the Tyrannidse. Part I. Revision of the 



Species of Myiarchus 56 



Material for a Monograph of the Spheniscidse 170 



Finsch, Dr. O. Remarks on the "Synopsis of the Genus Chettusia 

 (Lobivanellus) with a Description of a New Species by J. A. 



Ogden" 32 



Gabb, Wm. M. Notes on the Genus Polorthus, Gabb 259 



Notice of a Collection of Cretaceous Fossils from Chihuahua, Mexico 2(53 



Description of some new Genera of Mollusca 270 



Lea, Isaac. Descriptions of Twenty-nine Species of Unionidse from the 



United States 155 



Lewis, James. Shells of Herkimer and adjacent Counties in the State 



of New York 97 



Shells of Tennessee (No. 2. ) 108 



Meehan, Thos. On Numerical Order in the Branching of some Coni- 



ferse 33 



On the Agency of Insects in Obstructing Evolution 235 



Streets, T. Hale. Notice of some Crustacea from the Island of St, 



Martin, W. I., collected by Dr. Van Rijgersma 131 




IV LTST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Catalogue and Synonymy of the Recent Species 



of the Family Lucinidae 82 



Catalogue of the Family Chamidae 116 



Catalogue of the Family Chametrachaeidae 120 



Description of New Species of Marine Bivalve Mollusca 130 



Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Galeommidae 222 



Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Leptonidse 227 



Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Lascidae 229 



Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Astartidse 245 



Catalogue of the Family Solemyidae 258 






cfc* 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1872. 



January 2. 

 Mr. Wm. S. Yaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication: 

 " List of the Reptilia of the Eocene Formation of New Jersey." 

 By Edw. D. Cope. 



On a Mite in the Ear of the Ox. Prof. Leidy remarked that 

 he had received a letter from Dr. Charles S. Turnbull, in which 



he stated that while stud} T ing the 

 anatomy of the ear he had dis- 

 covered in several heads of steers, 

 at the bottom of the external 

 auditory meatus, a number of 

 small living parasites. They 

 were found attached to the sur- 

 face of the membrana t} r mpani. 

 Specimens of the parasite pre- 

 served in glycerine, and a petro- 

 sal bone with the membrana tym- 

 pani, to which several of the 

 parasites were clinging, were also 

 sent for examination. These 

 prove to be a mite or acarns, ap- 

 parently of the genus Gamasus. 

 The body is ovoid, translucent 

 white, about f of a line long, and 

 | of a line wide. The limbs, jaws, 

 and their appendages are brown 

 and bristled. The body is smooth 

 or devoid of bristles. The limbs 



1872.] 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



are from to \ a line long. The feet are terminated by a five- 

 lobed disk and a pair of claws, as represented in figure 3. The 

 palpi are six-jointed, as represented in figure 1. The mandibles 

 end in pincers or chelae, resembling lobster claws, as represented 

 in figure 2. The movable joint of the chelse has two teeth at the 

 end. The opposed extremity of the fixed joint of the chelas is 

 narrow, and ends in a hook. 



Whether this mite is a true parasite of the ear of the living 

 ox, or whether it obtained access to the position in which it was 

 found after the death of the ox in the slaughter house, has not 

 yet been determined. Dr. Turnbull observed it only in the posi- 

 tion indicated. 



January 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



January 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent} r -one members present. 



January 23. 

 Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said that among the ranchmen and 

 miners of California a belief exists that the mammoth Sequoia* 

 will live eight or ten years after being girdled. These trees often 

 had strips of bark taken off for some distance up, and completely 

 round, for the purpose of exhibition in other countries. 



This belief has been generally discredited by those of us ac- 

 customed to the prevalent ideas of the effects of girdling. But 

 experience having taught him how often popular observation was 

 nearly at least correct, notwithstanding our predisposition to be- 

 lieve implicitly accepted conclusions, he had watched for some 

 opportunity to test, by some observations of his own, the Cali- 

 fornian idea. 



A few years ago an Austrian pine on his grounds had the main 

 stem partially girdled by an insect. The opportunity before re- 

 ferred to suggested itself; and he completed the injury, entirely 

 girdling the stem. It was then staked securely to prevent the 

 wind from breaking it oil" at the injured place. The part above the 



[April 10, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1] 



injury was about four years old, and the whole tree perhaps ten 

 years. It continued to grow both above and below the wound 

 until the last season, when the upper portion died. The whole of 

 the section between the horizontal tier of branches above the gird- 

 ling and the tier below, a space of about eighteen inches, died the 

 same season with the girdling. He now exhibited a portion of 

 the trunk with part of the stem, which died the year of girdling; 

 and part of the piece which had grown above, and died last year. 

 There were four concentric rings of wood in the former and 

 eight in the latter, showing that it had made four annual circles 

 of wood after the complete girdling. 



He then observed that we might assume that the vital functions 

 could scarcely be carried on between the upper portions of the tree 

 and lower, if the intervening cells were dead. He supposed the 

 cells forming the annual concentric masses of wood had a longer 

 period of vitality in some species of trees than in others. In many 

 trees it was well know T n that such a girdling as that performed on 

 the pine would destroy them in one season. A recent examina- 

 tion of a trunk of Paulownia led him to believe that in that tree 

 the cells of the annual circles lived but two years. It was probable 

 that even in the pine famity the period of vitality might vary with 

 different species. In the Rocky Mountains of Colorado he had seen 

 many hundreds of trees of Pinus ponderosa which had the whole 

 of the bark for about six feet from the ground stripped from the 

 trees for the purpose of getting at the inner bark, which was used 

 as food by the Ute Indians; yet he saw no trees which indicated 

 that they' had been destroyed by this heavy girdling process. 

 In the case of the Austrian pine, however, though the formation 

 of wood went on above the girdled portion, growth was not as 

 vigorous as before. The first season after the young shoots were 

 about one foot in length; but these annually decreased, until last 

 year they were but two inches. 



Prof. Cope exhibited the cranium of a humped-backed whale 

 from the Caribbean Sea, obtained by Dr. Goes, of St. Bartholomew's, 

 and presented to the Academy through the liberality of Messrs. 

 Wm. S. Yaux and Isaac Lea. He pointed out that while the 

 scapula and cervical vertebrae were of the type of the true Meg- 

 apterse, the development of the coronoid process of the mandible 

 was comparable to that seen in Balsenoptera. The orbital plates 

 of the frontal are rather wider than in M. longimana. The species 

 was named Megaptera bellicosa. Its size was about that of the 

 31. longimana, but the flippers were shorter. A full description 

 appeared in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical 

 Society for 1871. 



Prof. Cope exhibited a portion of the skeleton of a large cro- 

 codile from the cretaceous green sand of New Jersey, belonging 

 to the genus Holops. The teeth were smooth, cylindric, acute, 

 1872.] 




12 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and much curved, the muzzle gavial-like. The cervical vertebras 

 were very large, aucl of depressed form; the walls of the long 

 hones unusually thin, and pneumatic foramina large. He called 

 it Holojys pneumaticus. 



January 30. 

 Mr. Wm. S. Vatjx, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 

 Mr. Wm. Swaim was elected a member. 

 The following standing committees were elected for 18*72: 



Anthropology. 



J. Aitken Meigs, 

 F. V. Hay den, 

 Henry S. Schell. 



Comparative Anatomy. 



Harrison Allen, 

 J. H. McQuillan, 

 Jos. Leidy. 



Herpetology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 S. B. Howell. 



Articulata. 



Geo. H. Horn, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 T. Hale Streets. 



Botany. 



E. Durand, 



Thos. Meehan, 

 Rachel Bodley. 



Mammalogy. 



Harrison Allen, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Henry C. Chapman. 



Ornithology. 



Bernard A. Hoopes, 

 Edwin Sheppard, 

 Theodore L. Harrison, 

 Jas. A. Ogden. 



Ichthyology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Thaddeus Norris, 

 J. H. Redfield. 



Radiata. 



Geo. H. Horn, 



J. G. Hunt, 



R. S. Kenderdine. 



Vertebrate Palaeontology. 



Jos. Leidy, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen. 



Invertebrate Palaeontology. Mineralogy. 



T. A. Conrad, Wm. S. Vaux, 



H. C. Wood, Jr., E. Goldsmith, 



Persifer Frazer, Jr. Jos. Wilcox, 



Clarence S. Bement, 

 Persifer Frazer, Jr. 



[April 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



Stratigraphic Geology. 



J. P. Lesley, 

 B. S. Lyman, 

 F. Y. Hayclen, 

 Franklin Piatt. 



Chemistry. 



F. A. Genth, 

 Robt. Bridges, 

 E. Goldsmith. 



Physics. 



R. E. Rogers, 

 John F. Frazer, 

 John Warner. 



Instruction and Lectures. 



Hector Tyndale, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 Win. S. Halsey. 



Library. 



Jos. Leidy, 

 Robt. Bridges, 

 Geo. W. Try on, Jr. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be printed: 



1ST 2.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



LIST OF THE EEPTILIA OF THE EOCENE FORMATION OF 



NEW JERSEY. 



BY EDW. D. COPE. 



The Eocene Formation occupies in New Jersey, according to 

 Cook, a band extending from near the centre of the State, north- 

 eastward, to the Atlantic coast in Mammouth County, in the 

 neighborhood of Deal. Lithologicallj 7 it consists of a light green 

 glauconite mixed with variable quantities of clay and fine sand. 

 The character of its fossils is marine, including sharks, rays, 

 sawfishes, and swordfishes in great abundance. These forms 

 especially abound in the southwestern part of its area, for ex- 

 ample, at Vincenttown, but in the northeastern region reptiles 

 are more abundant, with cetaceans. It is also in that section, 

 near to Shark River especially, overlaid by a thin stratum of 

 loamy sand, which contains fragmentaiy remains of terrestrial 

 vertebrates of the Miocene period ; e. <?., Elotherium, Dicotyles, 

 Bhinocerus, etc. Whether the larger mammal described as Hemi- 

 caulodon (Cope) and Anchipi^odus (Leidy) were derived from this 

 or from the Eocene bed remains uncertain. 



The reptiles belong to the Ophidia, the Crocodilia, and the 

 Testudinata, and number onl}' ten species. They are as fol- 

 lows: 



OPHIDIA. 



PAL.EOPHIS LITTORALIS, Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, 234. Trans. Auier. Philos. Soc, XIV. 

 227. 



Shark River. 



PALJEOPHIS HALIDANUS, Cope. 



1. c. 1868, 235. Tr. A. P. S., XIV. 227. Dinophis, Marsh. 



Squankum. 



PALJEOPHIS GRANDIS Marsh. 



(Dinophis.) Amer. Journ. Sci. Arts, 1859, 39S ; Cope Trans. Amer. 

 Philos. Soc, XIV. 228. 



Shark River. 



[April 1G, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



TESTUDINATA. 



PUPPIGEKTJS PARVITECTA, Cope. 



Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XIV. 155 (C'lielone). P. parviscutum (lapsu 

 calami) 1. c. 235. 



Squankum. 



LEMBONAX POLEMICUS, Cope. 

 Trans. Arner. Philos. Soc, XIV. 168. 

 Farmingdale. 



LEMBONAX PROPYLAEUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Established on an anterior portion of a carapace. This is very 

 peculiar in all respects, and throws much light on the character 

 of the genus. The anterior vertebral or nuchal bone is preserved 

 entire. It is recognized from its combination of a free concave 

 margin, with a basis of attachment of the first dorsal vertebra, 

 and from the first marginal bone on each side symmetrically 

 placed. The sutures thus exposed are very peculiar, and entirely 

 unlike those of any turtle known to me. It is a kind of com- 

 pound gomphosis, or mixture of the gomphosial and squamosal 

 types. The prominences are long, and penetrate deeply; they 

 are flat, and many grooved on both sides. The suture uniting 

 the nuchal and first costal consists of a median lamina from the 

 former, and two from the latter, fitting into grooves, but deeply 

 grooved, and divided on the edges. That uniting the first mar- 

 ginal is double squamosal, the former entering a groove of the 

 latter, which sends its inferior lamina far under the marginal. 



The nuchal is crescent shaped, the anterior or free margin 

 forming the a ncavity. The horns or external angles are much 

 more produced than is usual in turtles, extending on the inner 

 side of the marginals, and gradually tapering to a point. The 

 middle of the edges of the first marginal takes part in the con- 

 cavity of the front of the carapace. This concavity is thus more 

 extensive, both in respect to its depth and width, than in any 

 living member of the order, having but a slight representation in 

 some of them. Its edge is subacute in the middle and thickened 

 laterally. It is bordered on each side apparently by a prominent 

 angle for the edge of one (the best preserved) of the marginals 

 turns posteriorly, and is thinned out. 



The texture of the bone is closely spongy, with scarcely any 

 1872.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



dense layer without or within. This point alone distinguishes 

 the form from any found in the cretaceous strata. The external 

 surface of the carapace is smooth, and without trace of sutural 

 grooves of the horny scuta. The carapace is very thick, more so 

 than in any species of the order known, except the Agomphus 

 firmus. 



Measurements. M. 



Width of nuchal between antero-external angles (above) 0.2'25 

 Length do. three inches to right of middle . . . .11 



Thickness 02 



Thickness first marginal .30 



The length of the carapace, if proportioned to the size of the 

 nuchal bone, as in Ghelydra serpentina, would be forty inches, 

 with the width nearly the same. If the length of head and tail 

 were relatively less than in that species, and more than in the 

 species of Chelone, the total length would have been seven and 

 one-half feet. 



Of the affinities of the genus little can be said. The characters 

 of the plastron, as I noted when describing the genus, are more 

 those of Ghelydra than Chelone, and the present specimen adds 

 to the weight of the conclusion. The extensive union of the first 

 marginal and nuchal, and of the same with the first costal, are 

 very different from G'helone. The character of the sutures is 

 equally distinct from ain'thing seen in Ghelydra. 



As compared with L. polemicus, the present reptile is thicker 

 and probably considerably larger. The plastron is usually equal 

 to or thicker than the carapace in tortoises. In the present animal 

 the carapace is much thicker than the plastron of L. polemicus. 

 From Farmingdale, Monmouth County, N. J., from the pits of 

 the Freehold and Squankum Marl Company. Presented \>y the 

 attention of A. J. Smith, director. 



LEMBONAX INSULAKIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Established on marginal and nuchal bones of a specimen from 

 the Eocene bed of Vincenttown. The first marginal forms a pro- 

 minent marginal angle, the sutures of the nuchal and second 

 marginal approaching each other at a strong angle. The margin 

 of the nuchal is continuous with the transverse edo;e of the ad- 

 joining marginal, and has not bordered it on the free side for any 

 distance, as is striking in L. popylaeus. There has evidently 



[April 10, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IT 



been less concavity of this margin than in that turtle. The 

 suture between the two is also peculiar in not underrunning the 

 marginal to the same extent, and a portion of it underruns the 

 nuchal. It is indeed possible that these bones represent the 

 caudal and adjacent marginals, but the presence of a fragment 

 bearing the support of a vertebra is more suggestive of the nu- 

 chal. 



A prominent peculiarity of the bone is its great thickness. The 

 first marginal near its suture with the second, measures an inch 

 and three-quarters. The free margin is very thick and obtusely 



rounded. 



jr. 



Estimated length first marginal (one edge broken) . . 0.15 



Thickness near suture of second .045 



" of nuchal .... ... .033 



Should the size of this turtle be proportioned to the thickness 

 of the carapace, or to its relation to corresponding parts of the 

 L. prox>ylaeu$, it will have been one of the largest species of the 

 order, say from ten to twelve feet in length. 



The above descriptions leave much to be desired in regard to 

 the characters of the genus. The peculiarities of the sutures 

 distinguish the form from Chehjdra, and the association with an 

 especially marine fauna suggests natatory limbs like those of Pro- 

 pleura or Chelone. 



CROCODILIA. 



THECACHAMPSA SQTJANKENSIS (?Marsh). 



Amer. Journ. Sci. Arts, 1869, 391 {no description). Cope, Trans. Amer. 

 Philos. Soc, 1869, 65. 



Squankum. 



THECACHAMPSA SERRATA, Cope, sp. nov. 



Established on cervical and dorsal vertebras of an adult croco- 

 dile of about the size of a South American jacare (J. sclerops). 

 The teeth are not preserved, so that reference to this genus is 

 only made in consequence of the simple form of the hypapopl^ses 

 of the cervical vertebras, a character belonging also to other 

 genera. The neural arches and odontoid element are co-ossified. 

 The axis is compressed concave laterally, and with a very pro- 

 minent 113'papophysial extending on the anterior half keel of the 

 body. The parapophj'ses are inferior or on the lower plane, and 

 1872.] 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



look backwards. They are separated by a concavity from the 

 diapophysial projections, which is continuous with the anterior 

 surface of the odontoid. 



In a posterior cervical the cup of the centrum is transverse 

 oval, and the neural canal ample and transverse. The parapo- 

 physial articular surfaces are J-shaped, the convexity forwards. 

 The roof of the canal is deeply excavated on the middle line 

 above, and from the fossa thus formed the ridge of the neural 

 spine rises. This ridge is peculiar in the possession of a double 

 row of teeth or serrse separated by pits; on the posterior edge a 

 median series of teeth is most prominent. The edge of the cup 

 is thick, of the ball strongly shouldered, the shoulder obsoletely 

 ridged. 



The first dorsal has a similar transverse articular surface and 

 neural canal, and the serration of the neural spine is strongly 

 marked. The parapophysial articular face is an isosceles spheri- 

 cal triangle with the long angle upwards. 



M. 



Axis and odontoid, length 0.0.">8 



Cervical length (total) 

 Diameter of cup, f vertical 



outside measure, | horizontal 

 Diameter canal, transverse 

 " neural spine at base 



.U42 

 .028 

 .0:31 

 .02 



.018 



The serration of the neural spines constitutes the most striking 

 peculiarity of this crocodile. The use of the structure cannot 

 be surmised, as they were in large part at least concealed by 

 muscles and integument. It is intermediate in size between the 

 T. minor and T. squankensis. 



Presented to the writer by A. J. Smith, the courteous director 

 of the marl pits of the Farmingdale and Freehold Marl Company. 

 They were found in the Eocene marl of Farmingdale. 



1 THECACHAMPSA MINOR, Marsh. 

 Amer. Journ. Sci. Arts, 1870. 



The smallest of our crocodiles, stated b3 r Marsh to belong per- 

 haps to the same genus as the T. squankensis. 



[April 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



February G. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication: "Synopsis 

 of the Species of Chelydrinse." By E. D. Cope. 



Notice of Corundum. Prof. Leidy remarked that the speci- 

 mens of corundum presented this evening were of unusual interest 

 and beauty. They were from Franklin, Macon County, N. C, 

 where the mineral is said to occur in some abundance, contained 

 in a vein of chlorite. The specimens are fragments of large 

 crystals, presenting portions of the faces of the latter. They 

 exhibit in association the three varieties of the mineral. Mainly 

 composed of gray corundum, with the crystal surfaces of bright 

 ruby, and the interior with mingled rich blue sapphire. The ruby 

 and sapphire, though of line color, have not been found in a con- 

 dition fit for gems. Some small crystals of gray corundum 

 exhibit brilliant and translucent summits of ruby. 



A large crystal of corundum from the same locality is now in 

 the cit} r . It is a truncated, six-sided, compressed pyramid, about 

 two feet in length, and weighs about three hundred pounds. The 

 summit is one foot by six inches in diameter. It is much fissured, 

 and has a quantity of chlorite adherent or partially imbedded 

 towards the base. The surface is ruby; the interior is of gray 

 corundum with mingled sapphire. 



Remarks on Fossils from Wyoming. Prof. Leidy made the 

 following observations: The various fossils from the tertiary for- 

 mation 'jf Wyoming, which both I and Prof. Marsh have referred 

 to Lophiodon, I suspect to belong to a genus distinct from this, as 

 represented by the species Lophiodon isselense, of France. In 

 this, as in the related and living Tapir, there are six molars in 

 both upper and lower series. In the upper premolars of the Lo- 

 phiodon isselense a single ridge extends from the outer part of the 

 crown to the inner lobe, and the last lower molar has a trilobate 

 crown. 



In Hyrachyus agrarius, which I suspect to be the same as the 

 Lophiodon Bairdianus of Prof. Marsh, there are seven molars to 

 both upper and lower series. The upper two back premolars have 

 two well-marked ridges extending between the outer and inner 

 part of the crown; and the last lower molar has a bilobed crown, 

 as in the Tapir. 



Portions of two lower jaws, which I exhibit, probably belong 

 to a smaller species of Hyrachyus, perhaps to the same animal as 

 18Y2.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that indicated by Prof. Marsh under the name of Lophiod 'on nanus. 

 One of the specimens was obtained, by Dr. Joseph K. Corson, 

 U.S.A., at Grizzly Buttes ; the other, by Dr. J. Van A. Carter, at 

 Lodge-pole Trail, Wyoming. In both these the molar series is 

 six, and the last molar has a bilobed crown. In the upper jaw 

 specimen referred to Lophiodon nanus by Prof. Marsh, there are 

 seven molars. One less in the lower jaw may be regarded as a 

 less important character than the others separating Hyrachyus 

 from Lophiodon, in which view I refer the specimens to the former 

 under the name of Hyrachyus nanus. Probably also the other 

 species which have been noticed under the names of Lophiodon 

 7nodesfus. L. affinis, and L. pumilus, may be viewed as pertaining 

 to Hyrachyus. 



I further exhibit portions of jaws of several individuals of a 

 small pachyderm allied to Hyopsodus. The specimens were dis- 

 covered, by Dr. J. Van A. Carter, at Grizzly Buttes and Lodge-pole 

 Trail, Wyoming. 



In Hyopsodus, seven molars, a feeble canine, and the incisors 

 together form an unbroken row. In the lower jaw specimens, 

 which I propose to refer to a genus with the name of Blicrosyops, 

 six molars, a comparatively large canine, and the incisors form 

 the corresponding series. 



In Hyopsodus, the lower true molars, except the last one, are 

 of uniform width at the fore and back part of the crown. In 

 Microsyops the fore part of the crown is decidedly narrower than 

 the back part. In both genera the crown of these teeth is com- 

 posed of an outer pair of demiconoidal lobes with crescentoid 

 summits and an inner pair of conical lobes. In Hyopsodus the 

 contiguous horns of the crescentoid summits of the outer lobes 

 conjoin in the antero-internal lobe, and the anterior horn of the 

 crescentoid summit of the antero-external lobe ends at the base 

 of the antero-internal lobe. In Microsyops the anterior horn of 

 the crescentoid summit of the antero-external lobe ends in a tuber- 

 cle in front of the antero-internal lobe, while its posterior horn 

 ends in the latter; but the anterior horn of the postero-external 

 lobe, instead of joining the antero-internal lobe, as in Hyopsodus, 

 ends at the base of the antero-external lobe. The character of 

 these teeth leads me to the belief that the jaw specimens referred 

 to Microsyops belong to the same animal as that named Hyopso- 

 dus gracilis by Prof. Marsh, and with this view I propose the 

 name of Microsyops gracilis, which may be used in either case, 

 whether the animal is or is not the same as Hyopsodus gracilis. 



Two additional specimens I suppose belong to an insectivorous 

 animal, though they may perhaps indicate a small marsupial. 

 They were obtained, by Dr. Carter, at Lodge-pole Trail, Wyoming. 

 One of the specimens, an upper jaw fragment, contains a molar 

 tooth. This resembles the back molars of the Opossum, but with 

 the outer lobes of the crown proportionately better developed, and 



[April 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



the median lobes reduced to a minute condition. A strong basal 

 ridge bounds the crown externally, a thin one anteriorly , and 

 a strong festoon-like portion at the bottom of the inner lobe pos- 

 teriorty. The second specimen, an isolated tooth, is a diminished 

 representative of the one described. It may be a last upper or 

 other premolar of the same animal, or a corresponding true molar of 

 a smaller species. We have no means of determining the proba- 

 bility of these specimens belonging either to Omomys or Triaco- 

 don, and I propose to name the animal to which they pertained 

 I'alseacodon verus. The larger tooth is 2 lines fore-and-aft, and 2^ 

 lines transversely; the smaller one is 1| lines fore-and-aft, and 2 

 lines transversely. 



February 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



February 20. 



Mr. Wm. S. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication: "On an 

 Extinct Whale from California." By Edw. D. Cope. 



February 27. 



Mr. Wm. S. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : 



1872.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



SYNOPSIS OF THE SPECIES OF THE CHELYDEIN^. 

 BY E. D. COPE, A.M. 



This group of tortoises, so far as their structure is exactly 

 known, is confined to North and Tropical America. The number 

 of species is small, though the present list adds several to those 

 previously known. Their structure is highly interesting, as ex- 

 pressing relationship to groups which existed during mesozoic 

 time. I allude to the family of Propleuridae, found in the creta- 

 ceous greensand of New Jersey, which possessed features of the 

 sea-turtles, combined with those of the present group, or the 

 snappers. The latter possess the imperfect and small plastron 

 of the Propleuridse, conjoined with the ambulatory limbs of the 

 Emydidse. In other respects they resemble the Emydidee, and 

 I am inclined, until further discoveries of structural peculiarities 

 shall have been made, to allow them to remain in that family, 

 although both Dr. Gray and Prof. Agassiz have referred them to 

 a distinct one, under the name of Ghelydidee. Certain it is, that 

 they are also related to the Cinosternidse, which is peculiar in the 

 absence of the mesosternal bone. Claudius approaches the latter 

 family in its short tail and lack of posterior vertebral bones. 



The only possible exception to the rule of distribution above 

 laid down, is the genus Platysternum, Gray, from eastern Asia. 

 This form has been placed here, but appears to associate them 

 with more typical Emydidse; until its structure be better known, 

 its position will remain doubtful. 



The vertebrae of Chel ydr a serpentina present some peculiarities 

 as compared with Trionyx Testudo and Emys, as follows: 



Testudo polyphemus. Cervical vertebrae 2-3 and 4 opisthocoelian, 4th bi- 

 convex, remainder procoelian. Caudal vertebra? all proccelian. 



Trionyx ferox. Cervical vertebra all opistkoccelian, caudals all proccelian. 



Chelopus guttatus. Cervical vertebrae as in Testitdo, the balls of the poste- 

 rior transverse bilobed ; caudals all procoelian. 



Chelydra serpentina. Cervicals as in Testudo ; the caudals all opisthocoelian. 



There are only three well-ascertained genera of this family, to 

 which a fourth may perhaps be added. Thej r are distinguished 

 as follows : 



[April 10, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



I. Tail elongate, five pairs of scuta of the plastron. 

 Two rows of marginal scuta ; inguinals separated from yentrals by a long 



scute. Macrochelys. 



One row of marginals ; inguinals as last. Ciielydra. 



II. Tail short, four pairs or fewer scuta of the plastron. 

 Anterior lobe of plastron fixed. Claudius. 



Anterior lobe of plastron movable on the remainder ? Stauremys. 



MACROCHELYS, Gray. 

 Gypochelys, Agassiz. 



MACROCHELYS LACERTINA, Schweigger. 



Ciielydra, Schw., Ciielydra temminckii, Troost., Chelonura, do., Hol- 



brook, Emysaurus, do., Dum. Bibr. 

 Mississippi River and rivers of Texas. 



CHELYDRA, Schw. 

 Chelonura, Flem. Emysaurus, Dum. Bror. 



CHELYDRA SERPENTINA, L. 



From Canada to Equador. 



This species presents an extraordinary range, enduring both 

 arctic cold and tropical heat. I can find no specific difference 

 between shells from Pennsylvania, Mexico, and Equador. Prof. 

 Peters has reached the same conclusion respecting Equadorian 

 specimens. 



CHELYDRA ROSSIGNONII, Bocourt. 



Miss. Sclentif. Mexique Reptiles et Batrach, 1870, p. 18, Tab. V., fig. 2. 



This species differs from the last in having four barbels instead 

 of two, a larger plastron with a stouter bridge, and in the stronger 

 and longer dentations of the posterior margin of the carapace. 



Mexico and Guatemala (Bocourt). 



Some extinct species of this genus have been discovered in the 

 miocenes of Europe. 



CLAUDIUS, Cope. 



Proceed. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, 1867. Bocourt, Miss. Sei. Mex. 

 Rept., p. 19. 



This genus has received several accessions through the efforts 

 of those excellent naturalists, MM. Sumichrast and Bocourt. 

 The latter has described two species as previously named, but I 

 3872.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE ACADEMY OF 



think the identifications must be reconsidered, and one of the 

 names originally proposed by himself (G. megalocephalus), be 

 retained. The species are thus distinguished: 



I. Inguinal scuta two. 



Shell depressed, broad, carinse very weak ; one long anal plate ; inguinals 

 transverse ; tail smooth ; head brown, shielded above to behind the eyes. 



C. SEVERUS. 



Shell with three elevated keels, the carapace emarginate between the anal 

 scuta ; one short anal plate ; inguinals longitudinal ; tail with four rows 

 of tubercles ; head white spotted above, brown spotted below. 



C. PICTUS. 



II. Inguinal scuta one or wanting. 



Head very wide, smooth above ; two anal scuta ; lobes of plastron sub- 

 similar ; dorsal keel grooved. C. megalocephalus. 



Head narrower, with a horny shield on the top of the nose ; posterior lobe 

 of plastron narrower and more acute than anterior ; dorsal keel simple. 



C. AN GU STATUS. 



CLAUDIUS SEVERUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Carapace an elongate oval, with convex sides; the upper sur- 

 face nearly plane in profile, rising anteriorly, sloping to the an- 

 terior margin, and descending rather abruptly to the posterior. 

 General form rather depressed, the middle line including the entire 

 width of the vertebral scuta below the level Of the proximal part 

 of the costals. The latter present an obtuse longitudinal carina 

 on the two median. The two central vertebral scuta also possess 

 a weak keel, of which a trace appears anteriorly on the fifth or 

 last; first and second flat. The scutal sutures bounding the ver- 

 tebrals, costals, and marginals (except those between the last) 

 are bounded by flat but marked grooves of the shell. Thus a 

 continuous band-like groove extends round the carapace aboA r e the 

 marginal bones, and is continuous with a similar one passing 

 along the anterior margin of each costal, and undulate grooves 

 along the margins of the vertebrals. The first costal is one-fourth 

 longer than the second. The vertebrals are hexagonal, longer 

 than broad, with a rounded notch behind and projection in front. 

 The first is narrowed urceolate, deeply notched behind, and mar- 

 gining nearly half the first marginal in front. The nuchal is 

 broad transversel}", and very narrow; the anterior one narrower 

 than the posterior. The last and penultimate are a little wider, 



[April 1G, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



the last joining the last costal by a very short suture. The mar- 

 gin of the carapace is regular without notch behind or elsewhere. 

 The plastron is small, rather broad, and rounded in front, and 

 much contracted and acute behind. The bridge is rather wider 

 than in C. angustatus, and more as in Chelydra. The anterior 

 lobe is immovable in the dried specimen. Pectoro-abdominal 

 suture transverse, length -of pectoral on median suture equal 

 abdominal and two-thirds femoral length, and equal to that of 

 the anal. Latter much longer than wide. The abdominal plate 

 is the only one which covers the bridge from within, but does not 

 extend quite half-way across. Each is met by two large ingui- 

 nals, which are broadly in contact with each other, and are 

 broader than long. 



The color of the carapace is brown, but wherever rubbed of a 

 wax-yellow. The marginals at the bridge are principally a 

 strong yellow, which color covers the whole of the plastron. 



The soft parts are preserved in alcohol. The head is large for 

 the size of the carapace, and is remarkably broad, and with rather 

 short muzzle. This projects, however, much beyond the mouth, 

 the end of the under jaw visible when closed, being scarcely 

 beyond the margin of the orbit. Beak short, obtuse, not dentate ; 

 an obtuse festoon of the tomia below the orbit. Two beards. 

 Head covered with skin above, except from the line of the poste- 

 rior margin of the orbits to the end of the muzzle, which is pro- 

 tected by an undivided horny plate. 



The skin is but slightly granular. There are five curved scuta 

 on the ipner side of each fore foot, and a single row of scuta 

 above on each digit. The fore feet are webbed to the bases of the 

 ungues. The hind feet are well palmate, and with a free outer 

 web supported by a clawless toe. There are six curved scuta 

 on the inferior outer face of the base of the lower leg, of which 

 the first and third reach the external margin, and the others are 

 more internal except the lowest, which is very small. The tail is 

 very short, depressed, and incurved, with a terminal compressed 

 corneous scale. It is smooth, or without tubercles, above and 

 below, but anterior to the anus above are three pairs of very 

 small tubercles, one on each side of the median line. 



Color of soft parts dirty white below, dark brown above; sides 

 of head with close j^ellow reticulations behind. Throat and 

 lower jaw yellow; a dark spot on each side of the symphysis con- 

 1872.] 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tinned towards the angles of the jaws, where yellow reticula- 

 tions appear above it. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of carapace (straight) 0.18 



" " " (overall) 23 



" " plastron 126 



" " " anterior lobe from hyo-hyposternal suture . . .056 

 " " " posterior lobe from same point 069 



Width " " at ano-femoral suture 018 



" " " anterior lobe at anterior abdominal suture . . .058 



" " bridge (least) 018 



" " head at tympana 051 



Length of " " (straight) . . . . . . .053 

 " " tail from anus 024 



Width of palm (greatest) 030 



" " sole " 035 



This species was found at Santa Efigenia, on the western side 

 of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico, by Francis Sumichrast, 

 and sent b3^ him to the collections of the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. (Coll. No. 485.) I am indebted to the secretary, Prof. 

 Henry, for the opportunity of making an examination of it. 

 Prof. Sumichrast says of it in his notes, that it is rare, and out- 

 lives in muddy pools. In the young the dorsal crests are more 

 distinct. During life the anterior lobe of the sternum possesses 

 a slight mobility, which disappears on drying. 



CLAUDIUS PICTUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Staurotypus salvinii, Bocourt, Miss. Sci. Mex. Rept. 22, tab. v., fig. 3, 

 1870; nee Grayii Proc. Z. S. Lond., 1864. 



This fine species has been identified by MM. Dume'ril and Bo- 

 court with the species described by Dr. Gray, as above cited; but 

 it appears to me to be very distinct and perhaps pertinent to 

 another genus. Dr. Gray describes the anterior lobe of the ster- 

 num in S. salvinii as narrowed like the posterior, while it is 

 broadly rounded in this animal. He also states that in his species 

 the tail has a median crest of compressed tubercles, as in Che- 

 lydra, with a lateral series on each side. In this species there are 

 four series of minute warts, as in the other Claudii, and in no 

 way resembling those of Chdijdra. This is evidently not Gray's 

 species, and it remains to compare it with the Claudii, and espe- 

 cially with C. severus. It diners from this tortoise in the cara- 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



pace with more nearly parallel sides, with three stronger or more 

 elevated keels above. It differs in the possession of an emargi- 

 nation between the anal scuta. The plastron differs in the shorter 

 and less acuminate posterior lobe with shorter bridge. The 

 femoral scuta extend behind the abdominals on the bridge, while 

 the latter cover its entire width in G. pictus. The infra-marginal 

 plates are longer than wide in this species; in G. pictus they are 

 transvei'se. The tail of this species exhibits the usual four rows 

 of tubercles, while in G. seve?nts it is smooth. The head is nar- 

 rower in G. pictus, and the colors more varied. Thus the top of 

 the head is pale spotted on a brown ground, the jaws are yellow 

 with brown cross-bands; a 3 r ellowish band extends from their 

 angle over the tympanum to the side of the neck. Carapace yel- 

 lowish-brown with a dark brown spot on the posterior part of 

 each scutum ; limbs brown above ; plastron yellow with a brown 

 spot on each scutum. Length of carapace, .136 m. 



From Vera Paz. 



This species is beautifully figured by Bocourt, as above cited. 



CLAUDIUS MEGALOCEPHALUS, Boc. 



Ann. Sci. Nat. Zool., 18G8, X. p. 122. G. angustatus, "Cope," Bocourt, 

 Miss. Sci. Mex. Zool. Rept, p. 20, tab. iv. 



This species and the G. angustatus constitute the typical and 

 smaller forms of the genus, distinguished by the very slender 

 bridge of the plastron and single inguinal or intermarginal. The 

 present animal, after being described as distinct by Bocourt, was 

 subsequently referred to the longer described C. angustatus, but I 

 am disposed to regard his first conclusion as the more correct, 

 having received from Sumichrast a second specimen of the latter, 

 which confirm its characters. 



In C. megalocep>halus, according to Bocourt, the head is very 

 wide and the muzzle short, with hooked beak. Its upper surface 

 does not display the oval horny scute seen in G. angustatus, and 

 though there is a convexity of the edge of the maxilla below the 

 front of the orbit, it is not an acute tooth as in the type of C. 

 angustatus. This appearance may perhaps be due to age. 



The carapace is three keeled above, the median keel fissured in 

 its length. The keels traverse all the costal and vertebral scuta, 

 except perhaps the last vertebral. The plastron is rather wide 

 with the anterior lobe a little longer; neither lobe is much nar- 

 1872.] 




28 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



rowed, and there are two anal scuta whose average length equals 

 that of the femorals. The median suture of the abdominals is 

 only one-third that of the pectorals (three-fifths in G. angustatus). 

 Tail very short, with four series of minute tubercles above. Length 

 of carapace .1 18 m., width .079. 



Color above dark brown ; plastron light reddish-brown (Bo- 

 court), neck yellowish below. 



From Mexico. 



CLAUDIUS ANGUSTATUS, Cope. 



Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 187; Proceed. Anir. Phil. Soc, 



1869, tab. ix. 



This species is rather more slender than the last; the head is 

 narrower, and the posterior lobe of the plastron narrower and 

 more acute. The horny plate on the nose, and the undivided 

 dorsal keel, constitute other distinctions, the last of which are 

 noticed by Bocourt. In one of our specimens there is a single 

 anal scutum, in another there are two. 



STAUREMYS, Gray. 



Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, p. 127 ; Supplement to Catal. Shield Rep., 



1870, p. 65, f. 22. 



This name was applied b}^ Dr. Gray as a subdivision of Stauro- 

 typus, Wagl., which belongs to the Kinosternidse, a family defined 

 by the absence of the mesosternal bone. If this arrangement 

 expresses the true affinities of the species referred to it, it is un- 

 necessary to introduce it here. Dr. Gray states that the anterior 

 lobe of the sternum is movable as in Staurotypus tr-iporcatus, but 

 is more acute than in that species, being in this respect like the 

 posterior lobe. This difference is only specific, and the supposed 

 genus Stauremys, as defined by Gray, would not appear to stand 

 on any foundation. Should, however, it turn out to embrace a 

 species of Chelydrinee, it will rest on the character given above, 

 as distinguishing it from Claudius, viz., the movable anterior lobe 

 of the sternum. M. Bocourt appears to believe it to be one of 

 this group, from his referring to it a species of Claudius (G. 

 pietus, Cope), and as he may be correct, I introduce it into the 

 present synopsis. 



Dr. Gray's descriptions render it plain that the only known 

 species is quite distinct from those described above. 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 29 



STAUREMYS SALVINII, Gray. 

 Loc. cit. 



Shell brown ; temple and side of neck pale marbled ; below 



pale, about the size of Claudius severus. 



Haumanchal, Guatemala. 



ON AN EXTINCT WHALE FROM CALIFORNIA. 

 BY PROF. E. D. COPE. 



George Davidson, of the United States Coast Survey, recently- 

 presented the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, the 

 proximal portion of the left ramus of the mandible of a whale- 

 bone whale. The specimen was found in digging a well at San 

 Diego, on the coast, in the southern part of the State, at a depth 

 of seventy-four feet below the surface, July 27th, 1871. 



The angle and condyle are broken from the specimen, and the 

 distal extremity was not preserved. It possessed a coronoid pro- 

 cess, the apex of which has been lost. The inner face is plane, 

 somewhat convex above, behind the basis of the coronoid process. 

 Anteriorly it becomes more convex, the surface turning inwards 

 to the superior and inferior margins. The exterior face is con- 

 vex, so that at the posterior foramen its diameter above the mid- 

 dle is greater than that below the middle. The inferior outline, 

 from be^ow the coronoid process to below the last external fora- 

 men, is straight, not decurved. It is obtuse most of this distance, 

 but becomes narrowed at the anterior point. The superior mar- 

 gin is obtuse anteriorly, narrowed acute for ten inches anterior 

 to the coronoid process ; it is not truncate anteriorly. The internal 

 foramina are large, and form a series below the upper margin, 

 without distinct groove. The external foraminal series termi- 

 nates much anterior to the interior, that is, the last external is 

 opposite the sixth from behind of the inner row. There is no in- 

 ternal Meckelian groove. The Meckelian cavity of the ramus is 

 large behind the coronoid, but small and in the upper part of the 

 ramus at the last exterior foramen. The dental foramen is large 

 and above the base of the Meckelian cavity, to that its inner 

 wall descends to the floor of the latter. Below the base of the 

 1872.] 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



coronoid the inferior part of the ramus is rounded, but narrower 

 than at the dental foramen. 



Measurements. M. 



Length from middle of base of coronoid to last exterior foramen 0.22 



" to last interior foramen 10 



Extent measured by four last interior foramina 064 



Depth (inner side) at basis coronoid 10 



" at last exterior foramen 079 



Greatest transverse diameter ramus at last external foramen . .042 

 Depth Meckelian tube at last external foramen 024 



" " "at mental foramen 047 



Width " " " " " 032 



" ramus two inches behind basis of coronoid process (where 



broken) 047 



Depth of do. at do. about 095 



The presence of coronoid process indicates that the present 

 species was a finner, and allied to Balsenopiera. Though there 

 are no vertebrae or other elements to determine its reference to 

 this genus or to its ally Eschrichtius, it may be proper to refer it 

 provisionally to the latter genus, since so many of its allies on 

 the Atlantic coast formations have been found to be referable to 

 it. This course is still more appropriate from the fact that the 

 strata of tertiary age near San Diego are reported to be of mio- 

 cene age, the same in which the eastern Eschrichtii have been 

 found. As to its specific characters, these differ entirel}- from 

 those of the latter. The ramus lacks the decurvature of most of 

 them. In size it approaches nearest the E. polyporus? Cope, and 

 E. prisms, Leidy. It is much less convex externally than the 

 latter. The exterior series of pores does not extend so far poste- 

 riori}^ as in E. polyporus, and the dental foramen has a superior 

 position, besides other differences. Size that of E. prisons. 



The species may bear the name of its discoverer, and be called 

 Eschriciiitus davidsonii, in recollection of the efforts of George 

 Davidson to aid the cause of science in various ways. 



This whale, when living, probably attained a length of about 

 forty feet. 



1 Proceed. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1870, p. 285. 



[June 25 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



March 5. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following papers were offered for publication : 



" Remarks on the Synopsis of the Genus Chettusia (Lobiva- 



nellus) with a Description of a New Species by J. A. Ogden." 



By Dr. 0. Finsch. 



" On Numerical Order in the Branching of some Coniferre." By 



Thos. Meehan. 



March 12. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " On Prehistoric Human Art from Wyoming and Colorado." 

 By E. L. Berthoud. 



March 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



March 26. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers 

 were order to be published: 



1872.] 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



REMARKS ON THE "SYNOPSIS OF THE GENUS CHETTUSIA (LOBIVANEL- 

 LUS), WITH A DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES BY J. A. OGDEN." 



BY DR. 0. FINSCH. 



The newly described Ghettusia nivifrons, Ogden (p. 196), is 

 without the slightest doubt identical with Chettusia crassi- 

 rostris, De Fil. {Defilippia crassirostris, Salvad.), our Limnetes 

 crassirostris (Yogel, Ost. Africas, p. 641). On the plate (PI. I.) 

 the back and scapulars are wrongly " dark-brown" colored, instead 

 of "light brownish-gray," as accurately noticed in the description. 

 A very good and trustworthy representation is given by von 

 Heugliss : Ornithologie Nordostafricas, t. XXXIII. 



To Gh. senegalla, p. 194: "Vanellus albifrons, Bripp."(!) 

 noticed as a synonym of this species, has never been published 

 by Dr. Brippell, at least I could not find the source. 



The next ally of Gh. senegalla is Ch. lateralis, Sin. (p. 195, No. 

 5), which finally will turn out to be only a stage of plumage. 

 {Vide Ost. Africa, p. 643.) 



To Gh. inornata, Schl. p. 195. This must stand as Ch. cinerea, 

 Blyth., which is wrongly used as a synonym of Ch. gregaria (No. 

 10). 



Gh. inornata, Sws. (nee. Schleg.) is by no means identical with 

 inornata, Schlegel, but a very different species from Westei'n 

 Africa, which has been omitted in the Synopsis, as also the fol- 

 lowing well-marked species: 



Gh. (Hoplopterus) ventralis, Wagl. ex India, by mistake as 

 synonymous with Ch. gregaria noticed. 



Ch. (Hoplopterus) speciosa, Wagl. ex Africa. 



Ch. (Hoplopterus) cayana, Sabh. ex America merid. 



Ch. coronata, Gml. ex Africa. 



Gh. melanoptera, Bripp. ex Africa. 



Ch. (Lobivanellus) biloba, Gml. ex India. 



Ch. (Lobivanellus) pectoralis, Cuv. ex Australia. 



Gh. (Sarciophorus) pileatus, Gml. ex Africa. 



Bremen, G., February, 1872. 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



ON NUMERICAL ORDER IN THE BRANCHING OF SOME CONIFERS. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



In a paper entitled " Adnation in Coniferse," read at the 

 Chicago meeting: of the American Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science, and which was published in the "Proceedings'' 

 for 1868, I pointed out that the true leaves of Coniferae were 

 mostly adherent to the stem not merely " decurrent" as is 

 usually said of some of them ; and that the vigor of the axis or 

 stem was the measure of the adhesion. I now propose to show 

 that axial vigor also determines the law of branching in some 

 cases, and that the branching is on a numerical plan. 



In the most vigorous growths of Thuja occidentalism the com- 

 mon American arbor vita?, the leaves are almost wholly united 

 with the axis, only the delicate sharp awns are free. These are 

 arranged in pairs, one leaf opposite the other. The upper pair 

 alternates with the lower (decussate). A branch appears at the 

 eighth node ; and always at the eighth node when the vigor of 

 the branch remains the same. As the axis weakens the branches 

 appear at the sixth node. This is the general average. With 

 greater weakness the fourth node gives birth to the branch ; and 

 finally as the plant takes on its frondose flattened form, a branch 

 pushes from every alternate node. But in no case does a branch 

 push at an odd number. They are always from the second, fourth, 

 sixth, or eighth node. 



In Tfiuja gigantea, Nutt., the same law prevails, the sixth 

 and eighth being more numerous. 



In Libocedrus decurrens all appear to be on the alternate plan. 

 I have seen no instance, even in vigorous shoots, where the 

 branches push otherwise than from every second node. This is 

 also true of Chamsecyparis Laivsoniana, Pari.; and of G. obtusa, 

 Sieb., G. pisifera, and C. retusa all probably varieties of one 

 thing. 



In Biota orientalis, the branching is mostly from the fourth node, 

 occasionally from the second or sixth ; rarely one will come from 

 the third and odd number. In the curious variety B. 0. pendula, 

 Pari., where the plant has lost or never achieved the power to 



1872.] 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



produce frondose branches, the numerical order is lost: branchlets 

 push at any indefinite point along the stem. 



In Chamaecy parts spheeroidea, Spach., the American white 

 cedar, the branching is pretty regular at the fourth node, some- 

 times from the second, rarely from the fifth. 



In Chamsecy parts nutpsensis, Spach., the .yellow cedar of the 

 Pacific Coast, the course is the same as in the American arbor 

 vita. 



Sometimes in very stout shoots of this plant the leaves will be 

 in whorls of three. It is curious to note then that the branching 

 is on the odd numbers; either at three, five, or so on; but yet not 

 in a regular graded series as in its normal condition and in the 

 arbor vitaes. I have counted as many as fifteen nodes without a 

 branch, and this absence of order in branching also exists in 

 junipers. In these the leaves are mostly in threes, though still 

 decussate, and the branching takes place at the odd numbers, and 

 is irregular. 



Callitris quadrivalvis has four leaves in a whorl, and here again 

 we have the irregular branching of the junipers. 



The result of these observations is that in a large number of 

 cases the frequency of branching is in company with declining 

 vigor ; that presence of leaves in an opposite pair is favorable to 

 a regularity of branching on even numbers; and that whorls of 

 three or more are associated with irregular branching on odd 

 numbers. 



It is proper to remark that this branching has reference to the 

 growth of one season. There are axillary dormant buds at every 

 node, which may push according to circumstances during any 

 subsequent year. 



In connection with this subject are some observations worthy 

 of note, though not probabby original. As soon as the branching 

 at alternate nodes begins in Libocedras, Thuja, Biota, and others, 

 the frondose character commences. The pair of adated leaves 

 just above the node which bore a branch, is much contracted. 

 These are always on the upper and lower faces, and are known as 

 the dorsal leaves. The next pair of leaves are more developed, 

 more free from cohesion with the axis, and from one of them a 

 branchlet usually springs. These are the marginal leaves. 

 Usually the branchlets, one from a node and from every second 

 node, are alternate with the ones above and below it ; but when 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



the branchlet pushes front the main branch, the first series of two 

 or sometimes three are one above another, and on the upper side. 

 The flattened frondose form is the result of this plan of develop- 

 ment. Rarely two branchlets will proceed from each node, one 

 from the axil of each opposite leaf. 



In some species each succeeding pair of cohering leaves are 

 of equal length and strength. In the Thujas and in Ghamse- 

 cyparis Lamsoniana this is characteristic; but in Libocedrus 

 decurrens, and Chamascyparis obtusa, and allies, every first pair 

 succeeding a branchlet, and which on the flattened conditions 

 constitute the dorsal pair, are very much abbreviated and 

 shortened, so much indeed as to scarcely proceed beyond the line 

 of the lower pair, and tbus some writers have been led to describe 

 these plants as having 4-verticillate leaves. 



The seedling or first year's growth of Biota orientalis exhibits 

 this subverticillate character. The first pair of leaves succeeding 

 the cotyledons is so near as to appear almost two of a series of 

 four cot3 T ledon lobes. For many successive nodes the leaves 

 appear to be 4-verticillate. 



In regard to the early leaves of coniferous plants, those which 

 follow the cotyledons are nearly free, having little cohesion with 

 the stem or " decurrence," as botanists sa} r . As the axis becomes 

 thicker, or, as I have termed it in the paper referred to, endowed 

 with more vitality, there is less of the free portion and more of 

 the adnated or cohering, until in Pinus there is nothing left but 

 a thickened bed or pulvinus ; and the axial bud which generally 

 marks th f o diverging place of the proper leaf has to push and in 

 a difficult way perform the function of leaves. If any thing tend 

 to check the vitality of the tree, so that the axial buds do not 

 develop, the adnating power is weakened, and the true leaves 

 again become free from the stem. This is seen in Pinus edulis, 

 Engl. At any time through its existence, where the branches are 

 weak by being shaded or starved by other branches, the pulvini 

 develop into true leaves, and the axial bud, usually producing 

 two "needles," does not push. Street trees and osier willows when 

 annually trimmed, though the subsequent growth is vigorous, 

 increase their trunks slowly in girth, and die much earlier than 

 uncut ones. Thus their vitality is impaired. Some pine trees 

 when cut down push up strong sprouts, and these will often have 

 the pulvini developed into true leaves as in the weakened Pinus 

 1872.1 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



edulis. I have shown already, in the paper before referred to, 

 that Thujopsis borealis ( Chamsecyparis, Nutksensis, Spach.) also 

 throws out free leaves always in the weakened cutting state. In 

 some garden varieties of Thuja and Biota the weak axis of the 

 seedling condition remains throughout many succeeding j-ears of 

 growth. In all these cases the leaves are free. These free leaved 

 forms are still regarded by some excellent European botanists as 

 species of unknown introduction, although, as stated in my paper 

 on u Adnation in Conifera," their derivation from Thuja and Biota 

 is founded on direct evidence. I refer to this incidental matter 

 chiefly to add the new observation, in connection with the leading 

 points of the present paper, that with their weakened condition, 

 the regular numerical order of branching, as noted in the fully 

 developed forms, does not exist. 



I do not suppose this law of vital vigor so far as developed will 

 account for all the phenomena of free or adnated leaves; or for 

 all the numerical relations of branchlets to the nodes. I have 

 myself pointed out some apparent exceptions, but I trust I have 

 made it clear that it performs no mean part in the order of these 

 things. 



[June 25, 




natural sciences op philadelphia. 37 



April 2. 



Mi'.Vaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" Descriptions and Illustrations of Genera of Shells." By T. A. 

 Conrad. 



Remarks on some Extinct Mammals. Prof. Leidy exhibited 

 specimens of fossils from the Tertiary of Wyoming. One of these 

 is an upper jaw fragment with two molars ; the other a lower jaw 

 fragment with a single molar. The upper molars have crowns 

 composed of four lobes, of which the outer are like the corres- 

 ponding ones in Anchitherium. Of the inner lobes, the front one 

 is much the larger, and is prolonged outwardly in advance of the 

 antero-external lobe. It is homologous with the antero-internal 

 and antero-median lobes as existing in Anchitherium in a com- 

 pletely connate condition. The postero-internal lobe is the smallest 

 of the crown. It is conical and conjoins that in front. A barely 

 perceptible trace of a postero-median lobe is seen. A strong basal 

 ridge incloses the crown, except externally, where it is feebly 

 produced. 



The three upper molars occupied a space of 8 lines. The first 

 molar is 2^ lines fore and aft and 3^ transversely ; the second is 

 2| lines fore and aft, and the last one 2 lines. 



A question arises as to whether these teeth pertain to any of 

 the animals previously indicated from lower jaw specimens with 

 teeth. They are too large for the known species of Hyopsodus or 

 Microsyops. They nearly accord in size with the lower molars of 

 Notharctus, and perhaps belong to this genus. Linnotherium 

 appears not to differ from this, as the number of teeth and their 

 constitution are the same. 



The lower jaw fragment accompanying the upper one may be- 

 long to the same animal. The molar it contains, though resembling 

 those of Notharctus, differs in several points. I propose to refer 

 the fossils to a species with the name of Hipposyus formosus. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that he had recently the oppor- 

 tunity of examining the tooth described by Prof. Marsh under the 

 name of Palseosyops minor. The tooth evidently belongs to the 

 curious pachyderm with the beaver-like incisors named Trogosus 

 castoridens. On observing the molar tooth, which is not worn away 

 like those in the jaw specimen upon which the latter was named, 

 it at once called to mind, the tooth which had been described 

 under the name of Anchippodus riparius. On comparison, it 

 would appear as if the specimens referred to Paleeosyops minor 

 1872.] 




9 



8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and Trogosus castoridens, really belong to the same genus and 

 species. The tooth of Anchippodus riparius was obtained from 

 a tertiary formation, miocene or eocene, in Monmouth Co., N. J. 

 If the determination is correct, it would go to show that the Brid- 

 ger Tertiary formation of Wyoming was contemporaneous with 

 the Tertiary deposit of Monmouth Co., N. J. 



Prof. Cope stated that the largest mammal of the Eocene for- 

 mations adjoining those of Wyoming, i. e. of the Wahsatch group 

 of Hay den, was the Bathmodon radians, Cope, of about the size 

 of Rhinocerus. It was an odd-toed ungulate, with peculiar dental 

 characters. The incisors were well developed above and below 

 as in the Tapir, but the dental series was little interrupted. The 

 crowns of the upper molars were all wider than long, and presented 

 mixed characters. On the outer margin one only of the two 

 usual crescents of Ruminants was present, but a tubercle repre- 

 sented the anterior one. The one which was present was di- 

 rected very obliquely inwards. Inner crescents were represented 

 by two angles, the posterior forming the inner angular margin of a 

 flat table, the anterior, a mere cingulum at its anterior base. The 

 arrangement of these parts was stated to be of interest in connec- 

 tion with the relationships between the types of hoofed animals. 

 The single outer crescent was a ruminant indication, while the 

 inner table resembled the interior part of the crown of Titanothe- 

 rium. It differed, however, in its early union with the outer mar- 

 gin, its edge being thus possibly homologous with the posterior 

 transverse crest in Rhinocerus. The premolars had two or three 

 lobes with crescentic section arranged transversely. He regarded 

 the genus as allied to Ghalicotherium. 



He stated that the mammalian fauna of Wyoming and Utah 

 more nearly resembled that of the Paris Basin than any yet dis- 

 covered in our country, and that it had been discovered to con- 

 tain a still greater number of generalized mammalian forms. One 

 of the most marked of these was the genus just described by Dr. 

 Leidy. 



April 9. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



Remarks on some Extinct Vertebrates. Prof. Leidy directed at- 

 tention to some fossils upon which he made the following obser- 

 vations. Several teeth and jaw fragments from the Loup Fork of 

 the Niobrara River, Nebraska, obtained by Prof, 1 1 ay den, appear 

 to indicate a large species of Felis, not previously described. 

 The most characteristic specimen consists of an upper sectorial 

 molar about as large as that of the Bengal Tiger, and consequently 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



much too large for either of the largest existing american cats, 

 the Panther and the Jaguar. It is as much too small to have 

 pertained to the American Lion, Felts atrox, for its breadth is but 

 slightly greater than that contained in the lower jaw from which 

 the latter was described. Breadth of the crown of the tooth is 15^ 

 lines; its thickness in front 8 lines. The measurements in the 

 corresponding teeth of a Bengal Tiger are, 16 lines in breadth, 

 and H lines in thickness in front. The form of the fossil tooth is 

 the same as in the other feline species. 



The extinct species may be named Felis Augustus. 



A distal extremity of a humerus, from the Niobrara River, about 

 the size and construction of the corresponding part in the Bengal 

 Tiger, may belong to this species. 



Another fossil, consisting of a detached body of a vertebra, ap- 

 parently indicates an extinct reptile allied to Plesiosaurus and 

 Discosaurus. The specimen, recently received from Prof. Hayden, 

 was obtained in 1870, on Henry's Fork of Green River, Wyoming. 

 It is free from attached matrix, and was the only specimen pertain- 

 ing to the animal which was found. It probably belonged to a for- 

 mation of earlier date than that of the same locality which has 

 yielded other fossils previously described. 



The vertebra is from the base of the tail, and is much shorter in 

 relation to its other dimensions than in Plesiosaitrus or Discosau- 

 rus. The extremities are concave, and encircled near the margin 

 of the articular surfaces with a narrow groove. Posteriorly there 

 are two large articular facets, as widely separated as the bone 

 would permit, for the junction of a chevron. Anteriorly there are 

 no marks of chevron attachment. The roots of strong transverse 

 processes or diapophyses project from the sides of the body just 

 above the middle. The neural arch was completely co-ossified 

 with the body, leaving no trace of its earlier separation. 



The breadth of the body is 23 lines ; its depth 19 lines, and its 

 length if ,- nch. 



Viewing the specimen as probably representing a genus different 

 from those mentioned, I propose to name it with the species as 

 Oligosimus grand^evus. 



Another fossil is a remarkable specimen, obtained by Prof. 

 Hayden in the " Black Foot country" at the head of the Missouri 

 River. It looks as if it had formed part of the dermal armor of 

 some huge saurian or perhaps of an armadillo-like animal. It is 

 imperfect, and looks as if it were half broken away. In its pre- 

 sent state it is hemiovoid, about two inches in diameter, concave 

 below, and convex above, where it is covered by about fifteen 

 large mammillary bosses. 



Accompanying this specimen there is a distal phalanx, which 

 may belong to the same animal. It is rather less than two inches 

 long. The articular surface is transversely elliptical, 1% inch 

 wide, and 11 lines deep, and feebly depressed, so as to indicate a 



1872.] 






40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



moderate degree of mobility. The upper surface of the bone slopes 

 to the end and is transversely convex. The extremity is expanded 

 at the borders. Beneath are several vascular perforations. 

 Though the specimens are not sufficiently characteristic to deter- 

 mine positively whether they belong to a mammal or a reptile, or 

 whether they even belong together to the same animal, the former 

 one is so peculiar that I am disposed to regard it as representing 

 a genus and species, which may be named Tylosteus ornatus. 



Curious habit of a Snake. Mr. Cope made the following re- 

 marks : 



I had for some time a specimen of Gyclophis sestivus, received 

 from Fort Macon, N. Ca., through the kindness of Dr. Yarrow, 

 living in a wardian case. The slender form of this snake, and 

 its beautiful green and 3'ellow colors, have led to the opinion 

 that it is of arboreal or bush-loving habits. It never exhibited 

 such in confinement, however, and instead of climbing over the 

 Caladia, ferns, etc., lived mostly under ground. It had a curi- 

 ous habit of projecting its head and two or three inches of its 

 body above the ground, and holding them for hours rigidly in a 

 fixed attitude. In this position it resembled very closety a sprout 

 or shoot of some green succulent plant, and might readily be mis- 

 taken for such by small animals. 



Intelligence in Monkeys. I have two species of Cebus in my 

 study, G. capucinus, and a half-grown G. apella. The former 

 displays the usual traits of monkey ingenuity. He is an admirable 

 catcher, seldom missing anything, from a large brush to a grain, 

 using two hands or one. His cage door is fastened by two hooks, 

 and these are kept in their places by nails driven in behind them. 

 He generally finds means sooner or later to draw out the nails, 

 unhook the hooks and get free. He then occupies himself in 

 breaking up various objects and examining their interior appear- 

 ances, no doubt in search of food. To prevent his escape I 

 fastened him by a leather strap to the slats of the cage, but he 

 soon untied the knot, and then relieved himself of the strap by 

 cutting and drawing out the threads which held the flap for the 

 buckle. He then used the strap in a novel way. He was accus- 

 tomed to catch his food (bread, potatoes, fruit, etc.) with his 

 hands, when thrown to him. Sometimes the pieces fell short 

 three or four feet. One day he seized his strap and began to 

 throw it at the food, retaining his hold of one end. He took 

 pretty correct aim, and finally drew the pieces to within reach of 

 his hand. This performance he constantly repeats, hooking and 

 pulling the articles to him in turns and loops of the strap. Some- 

 times he loses his hold of the strap. If the poker is handed him, 

 he uses that with some skill, for the recovery of the strap. When 

 this is drawn in, he secures his food as before. Here is an act of 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



intelligence which must have been originated b} T some monkey, 

 since no lower or ancestral t}^pe of Mammals possess the hands 

 necessary for its accomplishment. Whether originated by Jack, 

 or by some ancestor of the forest who used vines for the same 

 purpose, cannot be readily ascertained. 



After a punishment, the animal would only exert himself in 

 this way when not watched ; as soon as an eye was directed to 

 him, he would cease. In this he displayed distrust. He also 

 usually exhibited the disposition to accumulate to be quite su- 

 perior to hunger. Thus he always appropriated all the food with- 

 in reach before beginning to eat. When different pieces were 

 offered to him, he transferred the first to his hind feet to make 

 room for more ; then filled his mouth and hands, and concealed 

 portions behind him. With a large piece in his hands, he would 

 pick the hand of his master clean before using his own, which he 

 was sure of. 



April 16. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication : 



"Studies of the Tyrannidre. Part I. Revision of the Species of 

 Myiarchus." By Elliott Coues. 



April 23. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Tweniy-one members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication: 



" Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Lucinidre." By Geo. 

 W. Tryon, Jr. 



Prof. P. Frazer, Jr., noticed a granular sediment at the bottom 

 of several bottles of water from the Geyser Spring, Saratoga, 

 and on taking them out they proved to be phanero-crystalline 

 individuals of peculiar form. This form seemed at first sight to 

 be that of the sphenoid or wedge-shaped hemi-pyramids of one of 

 the tetragonal or rhombic systems. On testing the crystals they 

 proved to be nothing else than carbonate of lime, and the diffi- 

 culty lay in making their habitus and composition harmonize. 

 Arragonite crystals they certainly were not, and if they were cal- 

 cites it is evident that they could not be sphenoids. 

 1872.] 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



On a closer examination it turned ont that they were acute 

 rhombohedrons with four planes largely and the other two planes 

 only very minutely developed, thus giving to the crystal the ap- 

 pearance of a tetrahedron or sphenoid, two of whose angles were 

 truncated l^ small planes. 



It suggested itself as a means of obtaining crystals from a 

 saturated carbonic acid solution of those substances not readily 

 soluble in pure water, to allow the gas to escape uniformly but 

 slowly, and thus allow each crystal time to complete its comple- 

 ment of planes. 



April 30. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The death of Wm. W. Gerhard, M.D., was announced. 



The following were elected members: Geo. Stiles, M.D., Pass- 

 more Williamson, Bloomfield H. Moore, Mrs. Bloomfield H. Moore, 

 Alfred D. Jessup, Wm. F. Miskey, Wm. G. Freedly, F. B. Gowen, 

 E. Burd Grubb, Thos. R. Dunglison, M.D., and John Thompson. 



Permission being granted, Dr. H. Allen called attention to a 

 novel method of studying the appendicular skeleton of vertebrates. 

 He had found that a radiated arrangement of bones could be de- 

 tected in the shoulder girdle. The recognition of such a plan sug- 

 gested the propriety of characterizing raj^s as divergent from a 

 hypothetized centre with respect to their positions to the longi- 

 tudinal axis of the body. The scapula thus becomes the neurad; 

 the pre-coracoid and coracoid bones the heamad; while the ray of 

 the arm is the manad. The neurad ray is single and may seg- 

 ment twice, as in some batrachians, or but once, as in others of 

 the same class. The heamad rays never segment. They may be 

 single or double. The manad rays are multiple in fishes, and may 

 not diverge from a single point. In Gobius some of these rays 

 appear as actinapophyses to the neurad rays. 



The manad rays are single in other vertebrates. They do not 

 segment in fishes, but may twice segment (" glenoid "-brachium) 

 with other forms. It is necessary to remember that the centre of 

 this radiate arrangement is not at all times at the shoulder-joint, 

 but may be at a point at which the u glenoid" (Parker) scapular, 

 pre-coracoid, and coracoid bones converge. This is instanced in 

 man and the salamander. 



The study of the pelvic girdle yields similar results to those 

 above stated. The centre here is at the acetabulum. The neurad 

 ray (ilium), the two heamads (pubis and ischium), as well as the 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



pesad (femur) do not segment. The late Y-shaped ossification 

 (man) is without morphological value. 



Dr. A. endeavored to establish a plan for the construction of the 

 hand and foot, by premising a system of divergent rays project- 

 ing from the distal extremity of the manad and pedad segments 

 respectively. He conceived it to present a better principle of 

 action than does the hypothesis of Gegenbaur, which rests upon 

 marginal chains of ossicles appended distad to the limb. 



In the fish the primal divergence of the rays from the multiple 

 manad are infinite, and do not permit of subsequent divergences. 

 In all other vertebrates the primal divergence is finite (single), 

 and the subsequent divergences vary; they attain their maximum 

 number (four) in the carpus and tarsus of Ichthyosaurus and 

 Plesiosaurus. 



In taking the limbs of the salamander 1 as illustrations, it is found 

 that the humerus gives off at the elbow two rays, the ulna and 

 radius. The ulna at the wrist gives off two rays in the shape of 

 carpal bones, which are serially homologous with the radius and 

 ulna. The lateral (i. e. outer) ray segments three times to pro- 

 duce the outer toe. The median (i. e. inner) ray segments once 

 and then yields divergents to produce by serial segmentation the 

 toes placed median to the axis of the carpal quantity. The radius 

 does not present divergents but segments to project the inner- 

 most toe. In this arrangement the ulna is seen to be the more 

 potential of the divergents of the humerus, since its several diver- 

 gences make up the bulk of the hand and account for the projec- 

 tion of all the toes excepting the innermost. In the foot the fibula 

 is the more potential bone, since the area of its related divergen- 

 ces yields the bulk of the foot, as does the ulna in the hand. Again, 

 of the first ulnar divergence the median is the more potential, 

 since the lateral passes off to the outer toe, exhibiting axial repe- 

 tition of segments only. The tendency for the greater potentiality 

 to be fo\md in the median ray of any given divergence, finds an 

 apparent exception in the penultimate divergence in Ichthyosaurus 

 and Plesiosaurus, where it would appear as though the lateral ray 

 yielding the last divergence is the outer instead of the inner side. 

 Enough is secured, however, to modify the prevalent idea concern- 

 ing the acquisition of toes. Conceding that the above scheme is 

 correct, it will follow, that, inasmuch as in the several diver- 

 gences the median rays are favored, and the toes are the ultimate 

 projections of such rays, they may be initiated from towards 

 the centre and not always from the sides. It was observed, for 

 example, that in the bi-dact}dous foot of the Proteus the ulnar 

 divergent produced an axis composed of five segments to consti- 

 tute the outer toe. The radial divergent repeated segments four 

 times, the terminal three comprising the inner toe. Now, the hand 



1 Gegenbaur. 

 1872.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of the Proteus is rt-dactylous, and it is found that the third toe 

 is the median ray of a divergence terminating the ulnar projec- 

 tion. 



In this connection reference was made to Buhl's 1 account of a case 

 of congenital defect in the human foot, in which four toes only 

 were present. The missing toe was the fourth, which is the median 

 terminal divergent of calcaneal side of foot ; the normal arrange- 

 ment of the human foot being as follows: The potential side 

 (tibial (?), remembering the twist of the posterior extremit}-, 

 caused the speaker to consider the potential side of the foot to be 

 homologous with the ulnar side of the hand) is segmented twice 

 (astragalus and scaphoid) to produce three divergents (1st, 2d, 

 and 3d metatarsals), each of which segments four times in form- 

 ing the first three toes. The outer weaker side segments serially 

 twice (calcaneum, cuboid) to yield two divergents (4th and 5th 

 metatarsals), which thence form the fourth and fifth toes. 3 



The relations between the term actinapophysis and the term 

 ray, as used in the above descriptions, were next dwelt upon. It 

 was proposed to restrict the term actinapophysis to a segment 

 projected from the side of an axial ray, while such axial rays are 

 always in themselves projections from a hypothetical non-osseous 

 centre. It follows that unless a ray can be traced to such centre, 

 it cannot be considered of primal value, and becomes actinapo- 

 physal. In the event of the correctness of this hypothesis, many 

 of the identifications of Parker must fall. 



Actinapophyses may behave like primal rays with respect to 

 the bone from which they spring. The separately ossified tip to 

 the acromion process is an example. This is an interesting ex- 

 pression of an actinapophysis projecting in an opposite direc- 

 tion to the axis of its own ray. Huge, 3 in his descriptions of 

 abnormalities of the acromion, figures two disjuncted actinapo- 

 physes in the above position. They are, it was judged, the 

 two centres of ossification of the acromial tip, not co-ossified 

 axiall}', as is the rule, but placed as divergents to the primal ray. 



Dr. A. felt inclined to claim for such centres the name of " cen- 

 tres of nutrition," and to revert the present application of the 

 theory to Goodsir* (1845). 



1 Congenital absence of femur, etc. Zeit. f. Rat. Med., 1860, p. 128. 



2 In the hand the radius (ulna, Gegenbaur) yields the scaphoid for a 

 segment, and the trapezius and trapezium as divergents (probably). The 

 ulna gives the semilunar for a segment and magnum unciform and cunei- 

 form for divergents ; the fourth and fifth toe are secondary divergences 

 from the unciform (probably). 



s Zeit. f. Hat. Med., 1859, p. 258. 



1 k 'Of the forces which exist in connection with centres of nutrition 

 nothing very definite can yet be stated. When this branch of inquiry 

 shall have been opened up, we shall expect to have a science of organic 

 forces bearing direct relations to anatomy, the science of organic forms." 

 An. and Path. Obs., Art. Centres of Nutrition. 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



The speaker was of the opinion that, as a principle, it was capa 

 ble of interpreting much of the skeleton. He had reason to be- 

 lieve, that, the bilaterality of centres of ossification (Serres) so far 

 as they apply to the neural and heamal axes (vertebral column 

 and sternum) being assumed, all other arrangements of the 

 scleral tissues were about " centres of nutrition." The costal series 

 (inclusive of the clavicles), with its multiple segmentations and 

 occasional actinapophyses; and more especially the infra-cranial 

 arches (the branchial (hyoid), mandibular apparatuses), were held 

 to be parts of a system similar to the above in kind. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be printed : 



1872.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF 



ON PREHISTORIC HUMAN ART FROM WYOMING AND COLORADO. 



BY E. L. BERTHOUD, A.M., C.E. 



[Journal of a Reconnoissance made along Creek Valley, Colorado, in October and 



November, 1871.] 



Greeley, Colorado. 



Oct. 21, mi. We leave Greeley, lat. 40 25', long. 104 36' 

 west, at 2^ P.M., cross Cache La Poudre Railroad, half mile east 

 of town, our course is N. 60 east. Camping in the evening below 

 the mouth of the Cache La Poudre, and on north bank of South 

 Platte River, our reconnoissance line takes us to Low Wet Creek, 

 three miles north of the river, but the total want of water in the 

 creek compels us to go to Platte River for camp. 



Altitude above the sea 45.56. Vegetation is getting more 

 stunted; the only trees and shrubs found are Populus angulata, 

 Salix muhlenbergiana? Rhus triloba, and Negundo aceroides; 

 Cerasus serotina : while a few Cleome integrifolia, and Aster 

 Novse-Anglise? are }^et in flower, and Cactus 'opuntia, covers the 

 high prairie everywhere. 



Platte River abounds in wild geese, A. canadensis ; brant, A. 

 Bernicla ; some white gulls and sooty terns. 



Oct. 22. Leave camp at 7 A.M., course N. 36 east. Travel- 

 ling to-day to reach Crow Creek for evening camp ; soil is sandy 

 and covered in every direction with prickly pear of most annojang 

 thickness ; our view in every direction except west is bounded by 

 a dreary, grayish, monotonous prairie, still it is singular to see 

 what a large amount of animal life exists here. 



Three kinds of wolves, the little prairie fox Canis velox, ante- 

 lopes, badgers, prairie dogs, two kinds of rabbits, black-tailed 

 deer were seen by us to-day at 3 P.M., in full sight of Crow Creek; 

 we find in several prairie ridges multitudes of Ostrsea or Inocera- 

 mus shells, forming beds of dark, soft earthy limestone. Reach- 

 ing Crow Creek we camp in a bend of the stream. 



Oct. 23. We follow Crow Creek to-day for nine or ten miles in 

 a course on average about N. 40 east. Water and grass scarce 

 and bad. We cross and recross the creek to-day, but it is dry 

 and sandy, and its banks wofully parched; at 3 P.M. finding a 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



water hole of green slimy liquid, we camp on the west side of the 

 creek. 



While investigating the formation of the bluffs capped with 

 gravel, we find many beautiful moss agates, and numerous flakes 

 and rude stone implements, mixed in tertiary gravel and seemingly 

 coeval with it. 



Oct. 24. Crossing Crow Creek at camp our course is N. 23 and 

 K 11 east. 



On leaving Crow Creek I obtained a complete suite of stone im- 

 plements and rude fragments which occur mixed in a gravel and 

 sand deposit that composes the summit and sides of the low bluffs 

 on the east bank. I found them in the gravel, in the soil, in every 

 kind of position, and sometimes weather beaten or stained by 

 weather and rain. The accompanying gravel is composed of smooth 

 pebbles of quartzite jasper, agate, granite, mica, slate, basalt ; with 

 a few shells and fossil wood, or wood opal ; while in the low grounds 

 at the foot of the bluffs ancient fireplaces, burnt fragments of bone 

 and wood, with flint and agate, chips and implements, almost uni- 

 versally distinct from those on the summit of the low hills border- 

 ing Crow Creek; so much is this the case, that the two seem to 

 point to a distinct era, the later presenting some progress and re- 

 finement even in stone implements. 



The evidences of the oldest and rudest art do not even show 

 traces of fire or fireplaces ; rough implements, irregular piles of 

 pebbles, are all that is left us to show and identify to the observer 

 the obscure seat of a still more obscure barbarism. 



Anotlr si* fact puzzles me, that whenever and wherever on Cache 

 La Poudre, Big Thompson River, Clear Creek, Crow Creek, and 

 Platte River, we find evidences of " Pre-aboriginal" occupation, 

 it is invariably on the low bluffs bordering these valleys, and in a 

 tertiary gravel deposit ; but if we go back in the higher region 

 of the prairies, they almost disappear or present a difference in 

 form or material. 



The shape, the location, the rude barbarism of these first 

 attempts of art irresistibly lead us to compare them to the rude 

 tools of Abbeville in France, or the implements of kerne in Eng- 

 land. I am glad to be able to give a few shells from this place, 

 which will serve to guide us in determining the age of the gravel 

 beds of Crow Creek. 



We are fast nearing the high table-land, between South Platte 

 1872.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



River, Crow Creek, and Pole Creek ; this is a dividing ridge capped 

 by conglomerate in many places, and under this on Low Wet, 

 Little Crow Creek, etc., miocene beds with Oreodon, Titanothe- 

 rium and fresh-water turtles. The gravel beds of Crow Creek 

 may be quaternary ? but they seem made up from the decomposed 

 capping north of us, and at Golden City apparently underly the 

 newer tertiary beds, capped with basalt ? 



Continuing our course about N". 15 east we reach Crow Creek 

 again in the evening ; passing over a bed of lignite or tertiary 

 coal. Prame very sandy and dry ; formation soft sandstone and 

 clay beds. 



Oct. 25. Course about N. 11 to 17 east, following Crow Creek 

 three or four miles. I noticed in two places in the steep bluffs 

 bordering the stream the burnt stones and black carbonaceous 

 remains of old fireplaces, from four to eight feet below the present 

 surface. 



At 11 A.M. we again leave Crow Creek, and begin to cross 

 another large bend in that stream. We are in sight of bright, 

 white bluffs north of us and directly in our course. These are the 

 white or chalk bluffs, that extend west to near the foot of the 

 black hills and on the boundary between Colorado and Wyoming 

 Territories, on the parallel of 41 N. Antelopes abound here, 

 we saw also to-day sixteen wild horses, which at the first sight of 

 our men went off at a rattling pace; the patriarch of the flock, a 

 fine black stallion, driving the rest before him. 



Passing over a flat well-grassed prairie bottom we reach at 1 P.M. 

 some long low ridges, that insensibly ai*e lost in a low flat bottom, 

 bordering a small dry affluent of Crow Creek. 



Halting here to await the arrival of the party some two miles 

 back, I strolled over the ridges to pick up specimens of agates 

 or fossils ; while so occupied I found at the foot of the first ridge 

 the evidences of the deserted site of an ancient village; the stone 

 heaps and circles, the projecting and polished boulders, the stray 

 flint tools and weapons, the multitudes of broken flakes or frag- 

 ments left in the primeval workshop ; while all around dispersed 

 in rude circles, the boulders of quartzite, of jaspery rocks, yellow, 

 red, or gray, nowhere else " in situ," speak of some method or 

 manner of industry, totally unlike our more modern Indian or 

 mound builder's vestiges. 



I made a sketch of this locality, marked A A a on the map, and 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 49 



also made a collection of the better formed implements and 

 weapons. I examined this locality critically, to get some clue to 

 its antiquity. 



North, half a mile farther, another old site was reached, marked 

 by four large boulders, placed on end in some sort of rude order. 

 Crossing a small valley I reached another spot indicated by 

 similar rude monuments, and characterized by heaps of ancient 

 implements and chiplings of the most primitive kind ; these are 

 strewn in every direction on a grassy ridge sloping down into a 

 small valley. The boulders here and elsewhere may have been 

 placed as rallying points for the family circle of the " Pre-abo- 

 riginal" man. 



Located on points of land and extended promontories, these 

 ancient sites favor strongly the idea of location near some ancient 

 estuary or fresh-water lake ; whose vestiges the present topography 

 of this region favors. 



Note on the Shells accompanying the Flints. These represent four 

 species, three only determinable. My friend, T. A. Conrad, to whom I 

 submitted them, states that one of them is a Corbicula, the other a Eangia, 

 both estuary shells, "certainly not of later age than older Pliocene, or 

 possibly Miocene, but there is no trace of Rangia in the Eocene." E.D. 

 Cope. 



1872.] 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS OF GENERA OF SHELLS. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



CRASSATELLA, Lam. 

 Subgenus Pachyth^ertjs. 

 C. Pteropsis, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 1. Cretaceous. 

 C. Ripleyana, Conrad, fig. 7. Cretaceous. 

 C. ligeriensis, D'Orb. fig. 10. Cretaceous. 



I do not suppose this group of Cretaceous, Eocene, and Oligocene 

 shells will be recognized as a genus distinct from Crassatella, 

 and therefore I propose it as a subgenus to mark the differences 

 which characterize the species of Cretaceous and older tertiary 

 formations, and distinguish them from Miocene and recent forms. 

 For description of the subgenus, see Anier. Journ. of Conch., vol. 

 v. p. 47. 



Crassatella. 



Miocene and recent. 

 C . undulata, Say, Plate I., fig. 9. 



PLEUROCONCHA. 



Shell radiately ribbed, hinge of right valve with 2 cardinal teeth, 

 posterior one immediately under the apex, triangular, thick, and 

 directed obliquely posteriorly, anterior tooth approximately direct, 

 no cartilage pit as in Crassatella. 

 Crassatella Gallieni, D'Orbigny. 



. I originally proposed this genus under the objectionable name 

 of Radioconcha, and as it has not been accepted I feel at liberty 

 to alter the orthography though not the meaning of the name. 



In an attempt at a natural classification of bivalves it would be 

 wrong to include this shell in the genus Crassatella, as the above 

 diagnosis must render evident to any one who studies the subject. 



In indicating the genus an error occurred in quoting the name 

 of Gue?*angeri, instead of Gallieni as I intended. It seems hardly 

 possible that any one could suppose that I would quote the As- 

 tarte figured on the same plate as the type of the genus. Had 

 I done so it would have been quoted Astarte, not Crassatella. 

 C. Robinaldini was incorrectly referred to this genus. 



Ptychomya, Ag., is described as having 3 diverging cardinal 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



teeth in each valve, which with other characters show a wide 

 generic difference between it and Pleuroconcha. 



PLIONEMA, Conrad. 



Shell snbrotnnd, sculptured with close radiating lines or fine 

 ribs ; hinge of left valve with 2 robust diverging teeth ; lunule 

 none. 

 Astarte Guerangeri, D'Orbigny. 



The radiating ribs and lunule are I think sufficient to distinguish 

 this as a subgenus. When it is considered that all the numerous 

 species, Cretaceous and recent, of the genus Astarte or Crassina 

 are characterized by a well-marked and generally profound lunule, 

 and when ribbed, always concentrically, the Astarte Guerangeri 

 forms too marked an exception to place it in the group of typical 

 species. 



SCAMBULA. 



Shell triangular, compressed ; in the right valve one direct tooth 

 under the apex, with a pit on each side of it, and a long lateral 

 tooth anteriorly, posterior dorsal margin carinated, which promi- 

 nent line fits into a doubled lateral tooth, in the opposite valve, 

 left valve with 2 long approximate direct teeth, and a long ante- 

 rior marginal lateral tooth, pallial line invisible, inner margin finely 

 crenulated on a raised line. 

 S. perplana, Conrnd, PI. I., fig. 2 



The crenulations on the shell closely resemble those of Pachy- 

 th;erus ( Cretaceous forms of Crassatella), being arranged in a 

 slightly prominent line. The hinge of this shell is very distinct r 

 from that of Crassatella. 



PTEEOMERIS. 



Shell triangular, compressed, radiately ribbed, not oblique ; 

 hinge of left valve with 2 diverging cardinal teeth, the anterior 

 one slightly grooved ; the posterior one elongated, profoundly 

 bifid ; posterior hinge margin carinated. 

 P. perplana, PI. I., fig. 3. 



This genus was indicated in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences in 1862. It was not founded on Astarte minu- 

 tissima as stated by Stoliczka, but on Cardita perplana a Mio- 

 cene shell. Micromeris was proposed for the former, which from 



1872.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Lea's description and figure must be sufficiently distinct in generic 

 character. 



In the Eocene catalogue published in the American Journal of 

 Conchology, Astarte minutissima was incorrectly referred to Pte- 

 romeris. This shell, and Cardita atomus, Deshayes, look much 

 alike externally. 



VETERICARDIA. 



This genus was improperly printed Vetocardia. and I here re- 

 store the correct orthography. 



V. crenalirata, PI. I., fig. 4. 



Venericardia dupiniana, from D'Orbigny, fig. 11. 



Stoliczka has figured a shell under the name of Cardita Jaguenoti 



which has more external resemblance to Venericardia than any 



cretaceous form known to me, but the hinge is different from that 



of Cardita or Venericardia, and also from that of the present 



genus. 



PLEUROMERIS. 

 P. tridentata (Cardita), Say. 



May be regarded as the type of this genus, which was described 

 in the Araer. Journ. of Conch., vol. III., p. 12. 



P. decemcostata, PI. I., fig. 8 



This is a Miocene species in which formation most of the species 

 are found, though the genus first appeared in the Eocene. I 

 refer to this genus Cardita Kickxii, G. chamaefoj^nis, Sowerby, C. 

 scat arts, C. analis, Phil. 



EULOXA. 



Equivalved; hinge of right valve having a long oblique bifid 

 tooth immediately under the apex, and one pyramidal thick dis- 

 tant tooth anteriorly, left valve with 3 distant cardinal teeth, one 

 under the apex oblique thick entire, posterior tooth slender and 

 very oblique, anterior tooth small, pallial line with a slight sinus ; 

 inner margin entire. 



E. latisulcata, PI. I., fig. 5. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. xiv. p. 585. 



This genus essentially differs from Crassina in the thick an- 

 terior tooth of the right valve; in having 3 teeth in the left valve 

 and in having a dental pit in the right valve where Crassina has 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



a prominent tooth, find in having a pallial sinus. I know of one 

 species only, E. latisulcata, a Miocene fossil. 



ALVEINUS. 



Shell eqnivalvecl, smooth ; hinge of both valves with a central 

 pit or emargination ; right valve with 2 approximate tuberculiform 

 minute teeth, the first immediately under the apex and the other 

 beneath and a little in advance of it ; a lanceolate furrow in front of 

 it ; left valve with 2 tuberculiform teeth situated in respect to each 

 other in a line with the anterior hinge margin; a submarginal 

 channel runs entirely round the valves to the apex; pallial line 

 entire ? 



A. minutus, Conracl, PI. I., fig. 6. Amer. Journ. Conch., vol. i. p. 13S, PI. X., 

 fig, 2. 



A minute shell of the Oligocene period found at Enterprise, 

 Miss. The exterior has much resemblance to that of a ventricose 

 Dosinia. The channel around the submargin of the entire shell 

 is, I believe, an unique character. The figure is greatly enlarged. 

 We have but two specimens of this little bivalve, which is ex- 

 tremely thin in substance. 



PARASTARTE. 



Comparing this minute shell with Goodallia triangularis, the 

 hinge is found to correspond with that of the latter, and therefore 

 P. triquetra, Conrad, (Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1862) must 

 be named Goodallia triquetra. 



LATIARCA. 



Shell triangular, thick, capacious ; hinge line narrow medially, 

 broad at the ends ; cardinal plates elevated strongly and rugosely 

 striated transversely, the larger plates descending; medial plates 

 very irregular ; lower margin of posterior cicatrix elevated and 

 acute, area between the beaks with conspicuous grooves angulated 

 under the beaks. 



Latiarca idonea, Conrad, PI. II., fig. 1. Amer. Journ. Conch., p. 289. Eocene. 



The most essential difference between this genus and Idonearca 

 is the want of the internal plate, very prominent in the latter, 

 which is also a much shorter shell, with a broader hinge plate. 



Cucullsea crassalina, Lam., is a fine example of this genus. Des- 

 hayes, Coq. Foss. pi. XXXI., fig. 8, 9. 

 1872.] 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



IDONEARCA. 



Shell triangular, thick, ventricose, with radiating lines, hinge 

 broad, medial cardinal plates prominent, linear, transverse, or di- 

 rect and transversely striated ; anterior and posterior plates elon- 

 gated, oblique or descending, angular at the inner ends and 

 strongly striated transversely, inner plate prominent, curved, car- 

 dinal area subequal, grooved. 



I. capax. PI. II., fig. 2. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., 2d series, vol. III., p. 328, pi. 

 XXXV., fig. 2. 



This genus is one of the most characteristic of the Cretaceous 

 forms, and has the earliest and most developed form of hinge, now 

 represented by the recent Cuculleea. Stoliczka 'confounds with 

 Macrodon, the two very distinct genera of Idonearca and Gram- 

 matodon. The latter is a Jurassic genus unknown in Cretaceous 

 strata. 



Having obtained the hinge of a New Jersey bivalve belonging 

 to a group of which Cuculleea vulgaris, Morton, is the typical form, 

 I am enabled to subjoin a list of all the species of Idonearca 

 known to me. 



American. 



antrosa, Morton. 

 capax, Conrad. 

 Mattliewsoni, Gabb. 

 Tippana, Conrad. 

 truucata, Gabb. 



Syrian. 

 brevifrons, Conrad, 

 induratus, Conrad, 

 opiforrnis, Conrad, 

 orientalis, Conrad, 

 sabrotunda, Conrad. 

 Syriaca, Conrad. 



European. 



glabra, Sowerby. 

 disparilis, 2)' Orbig. 

 Gabrielis, D : Orbig. 

 fibrosa, D 1 Orbig. 

 Marciana, D, Orbig. 

 sagittata, D' Orbig. 

 tumida, B'' Orbig. 



Indian. 

 disparilis, W Obigny. 



TRIGONOARCA. 



This genus is eminently characteristic of the Newer Cretaceous 

 series. It has very marked and distinct generic characters, par- 

 ticularly in having teeth like Axincea and an internal elevated 

 plate like Idonearca and Cucull^a. 



Stoliczka doubts whether this genus should not rather be a sub- 

 genus of Noetia, a very strange reference considering that Noetia 

 is strongly ribbed, has comparatively fine hinge teeth, no internal 

 plate and reversed beaks, and above all is no older than the Mio- 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 55 



cene, while Trigonoarca disappeared at the close of the Chalk 

 epoch. It combines the characters of Axin^ea and Idonearca 

 and connects these with CucuLLiEA. 



The American species have a very short posterior hinge area, 

 which is rather long anteriorly. 



Subgenus Breviarca. 



Shell short ; hinge area minutely striated across ; hinge line de- 

 scending at the ends ; cardinal plates minute, crowded. 

 T. perovalis, Plate II., fig. 4. 

 T. Saffordii, Gabb, Plate II., fig. 3. 



18Y2.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



STUDIES OF THE TYRANNIDJE. PART I. REVISION OF THE SPECIES 



OF MYIARCHUS. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



A complete and perfectly satisfactory account of this family 

 can only be rendered by some one who has access to the principal 

 European collections as well as those of this country. But if the 

 large amount of United States material is thoroughly worked up, 

 it may become an important contribution to the urgently needed 

 monograph of the future. The present is the first one of a series 

 of papers in which more or fewer of the genera of Tyrannidee 

 will be considered as time and circumstances may allow. The 

 basis of these "studies" should be explicitly stated. The investiga- 

 tion is grounded, first, upon the entire Smithsonian series, which, 

 in the liberal policy pursued by the authorities of that institution, 

 is placed in my hands; and probably, in the end, the specimens 

 will be made up in sets, labelled in accordance with my views, and 

 distributed to home and foreign societies. Through the friendly 

 offices of Mr. J. A. Allen, the whole collection of the museum 

 of Comparative Zoology has been sent to me. The large suite 

 of the Philadelphia Academy is examined, as well as the Lafres- 

 naye types and other specimens in the Boston Society's Museum; 

 while I have received, through the courtesy of Dr. Brewer and 

 Prof. Hyatt, such specimens as the rules of the society permit to 

 leave the building. Mr. Lawrence generously places the fly- 

 catchers of his private cabinet at my service ; they represent all 

 his types and many other indispensable examples. Prof. Orton 

 has promptly signified his willingness to transmit, from the ex- 

 tensive collection of Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, such speci- 

 mens as I may desire to inspect. Others are derived from my 

 own cabinet and miscellaneous sources. Since it does not appear 

 that there is any important material in southern or western cities, 

 what is just recounted virtually represents the gross amount 

 available in the country; and what this is may be inferred by the 

 fact, that the specimens of Myiarchus alone are over two hundred 

 in number. 



[June 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Genus MYIARCHUS Cabanis. 



Myiarclbus, Cab., Fn. Peruv. 1844, 152. Type Muscicapa ferox, Gm. 



Despoiina, Kaup, ? ,1851.' Type ? 



Kaupornis, Bp., ? Ateneo Italiauo, 1854. Type Myiobus stolidus, Gosse. 

 Blacicus, Cab., J. f. O. 1855, 480. Type Myiobius tristis, Gosse. 

 Myionaz, Cab., Mus. Hein. ii. 1859, 73. Type Muscicapa crinita, L. 

 Non Myiarchus apud Bp. Cousp. Av. i. 188. 

 Muscicapa, Tyrannus, Tyrannula, Aliquorum. 



The genus, so called, rests upon no structural characters, while 

 its synonyms are among the vagaries of ornithology. But the 

 term is a convenient designation of a group of flycatchers modelled 

 in the likeness of Musciaioa crinita, L. They stand near Tyr- 

 annus proper, and closely resemble the olivaceous, yellow-bellied 

 species ("Laphyetes") of the latter, such as verticalis ; but are 

 distinguished by not having the outer primaries emarginate, nor 

 the wings longer than the tail, nor a flame-colored crest. The bill 

 and feet of the two genera do not differ noticeably ; or rather, 

 these members, in the species of Myiarchus, waxy as much inter se 

 as the difference between 3Iyiarchus and Tyrannus in the same 

 respects. 



But the distinction between Myiarchus and Tyrannus, due to 

 the tolerably strong features of the latter genus, is considerable, 

 compared with the differences subsisting between 3Iyiarchus and 

 several allied olivaceous ltycatchers. Color aside, there are no 

 substantial characters by which the Myiarchi can be distinguished 

 generically from " Empidias" fuscus, "Empidonax" acadicus, 

 " My i odyfcastes" audax, and others, among which lam not sure 

 that some forms with which I am at present unacquainted may 

 not fall in Myiarchus as defined for the purposes of this paper. 



In the matter of external anatomy, or contour, we can only say 

 that Myiarchi are rather large tyrannulas, with the nearly even 

 tail so lengthened that when measured inside the coccyx, it equals 

 or rather exceeds the wing in length; with the wing rather short, 

 and its point formed by the third, or third and fourth quills, 

 closely supported by the second and fifth, the first being only as 

 long as the inner primaries; with the bill of the most ordinary 

 tyrannuline shape, a little more or less than half its own length 



1 I quote this and the following name on Gray's authority, haying no 

 means of verifying the references. 

 1872.] 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



broad opposite the nostrils, and a little shorter than the tarsus, 

 which latter somewhat exceeds the middle toe and claw in length; 

 and with the occipital and coronal feathers somewhat lanceolate 

 and lengthened into a slight crest. 



Coloration is a good arbitrary clue to the genus. The upper 

 parts are more or less olive, sometimes clear and bright, sometimes 

 grayish or brownish ; the throat is more or less ash}', variable in 

 shade ; the belly is more or less yellow, from a rich shade to a 

 mere trace; and the wing and tail feathers are marked with rufous, 

 sometimes intense, and occuqrying the whole of certain feathers, 

 sometimes reduced to a mere trace; but even in those species, in 

 which it is at a minimum, it may be detected in some specimens. 

 If one will lay the following birds side by side, one will see this 

 distinctive brand of coloration running through them all, though 

 at first sight such a form as antillarum does not particularly re- 

 semble validus. The Tyranni afford a parallel series between ex- 

 tremes, from the most olivaceous yellow-bellied species, like verti- 

 calis, to the dark ashy white-bellied carolinensis. Still, in a cer- 

 tain per cent, of specimens of several Myiarchi the rufous is 

 ordinarily imperceptible. 



Judged by the foregoing standard, " Blacicus" tristis is a pure 

 Myiarchus ; in fact, it is the insular representative of nigriceps, as 

 stolidus is of lawrencei. " Blacicus" pallidas, however, falls unde r 

 " Contopus," owing to the smallness of the feet. " Tyrannus" 

 antillarum, Bryant, referred by Gray to typical Tyrannus, is 

 certainly a true Myiarchus, being simply an insular variety of M. 

 stolidus. But this error of Gray's is a slight matter, compared with 

 his assignment of stolidus itself to an entirely different genus of an- 

 other sub-family; this bird being pure Myiarchus, only specifically 

 distinguishable from M. lawrencei as its insular representative. I 

 know nothing of the "Onychopterus tuberculifer Lafr." which 

 Gray interpolates betwixt the larger and smaller species of typical 

 Jli/iarchus; but I suspect it does not belong just here. Likewise 

 I have not seen four other species ascribed to the genus, viz. : 

 tricolor, cantans and gracilirostris, Pelzeln, and fasciatus, Landb. ; 

 so I cannot sa}' whether or not they fall in the group as here de- 

 fined; but there is little, if any doubt, that they belong here. 

 Excepting these, I have before me, I believe, types or typical spe- 

 cimens of all the described species of Mxjiarchus ; and these I 

 purpose to elaborate in this paper. And that I may not be mis- 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



understood in my method of treating them, I will state explicitly 

 that I am governed, on this occasion, by the following arbitrary 

 rules or definitions : 



I. I predicate "species" upon specimens presenting any defi- 

 nite, constant, tangible characters whatsoever, that do not, so far 

 as it appears, grade into the characters of other specimens. 



II. I predicate "varieties" upon specimens presenting indefinite 

 and inconstant yet tangible characters that are seen to grade into 

 the characters of other specimens. 



III. I predicate "synonyms" upon specimens presenting in- 

 definite, inconstant, and intangible characters due to individual 

 peculiarities, or to age, sex, season, or locality; as well as upon 

 specimens presenting no special characters at all. 



My present belief is, that there are only four 1 forms of Myi- 

 archus that do not intergrade, and that are differentiated from 

 a common original stock to such degree, or in such manner, that 

 we cannot account for their respective peculiarities according to 

 highly probable laws of geographical variation depending upon 

 differences in food, climate, etc.; but I cannot here enter upon 

 debatable ground. According to the foregoing practically con- 

 venient if not very scientific rules, I find that the specimens ex- 

 amined represent nine species, two of which each present three 

 tangible varieties. 3 



Before proceeding to handle these species and varieties I will 

 recount several propositions that should receive due consideration. 



a. The normal inherent variability in size, of the whole bird 

 and of ifs several members, is at least 12 per cent, of the mean. 

 (This is independent of all extraneous influences.) 



b. Size varies in direct ratio with the latitude of the breeding 

 place. 



c. Size of peripheral parts, as compared with total size, varies 



1 One is the series comprising crinitus, validus, cinerascens, tyrannulus 

 and pTimcepTialus ; the second is lawrencii and nigriceps ; the third, sto- 

 lidus; fourth, tristis. 



2 In defining these varieties, as I do beyond, I must not be taken as 

 meaning that the characters assigned always apply in full force: that 

 would be prima facie evidence of species. On the contrary, I describe the 

 extreme phase of variation, which shades by insensible steps into the 

 "typical" condition of the species. 



1872.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in inverse ratio with the latitude of the breeding-place. 1 (Cf. 

 Allen, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. ii. p. 229 ) 



d. The ? is generally a little smaller than the % . 



e. Intensity of coloration varies in direct ratio with the tem- 

 perature and humidity of the breeding-place. Moisture, however, 

 intensifies color more than heat ; aridity tones down color more than 

 cold. Birds from hot dry places, therefore, are paler cseteris 

 paribus^ than birds from wet places of the same or even lower 

 temperature. (Cf. Allen, op. cit. p. 239.) 



f. The rufous coloration belongs to the category of what some 

 call " embryonic features," in the sense that it generally decreases 

 with age. Young birds are suffused with rufous to an extent 

 rarely if ever seen in the old ; this is shown both in the greater 

 extent of the color on the quills and tail, and in the modification 

 of the olivaceous by admixture, young birds being "browner" 

 than the old. 



g. In the adult state, the freshest plumage is the most oliva- 

 ceous, as the feathers wear browner with exposure. 



/;. The 3'ellow coloration increases with age to a certain extent; 

 and in the fall is at least as bright as, if not brighter than, in 

 spring, in equally mature birds. 



i. The sexes do not differ in color to a recognizable deo-ree. 2 



k. Variation unconnected with age,* sex, or season, is in inverse 

 ratio with the migration or changeable geographical distribution 

 of individuals. 



This last important generalization is well illustrated in the cases 

 of crinitus and stolidus. The former is the most extensiveby dis- 

 persed species of the genus, being found at different seasons from 

 Guatemala to New England. As its individuals are never con- 



1 But certain localities produce larger bills, in opposition to this rule, or 

 show greater variability in the size of the bill, according to influences at 

 present unknown; e. g., the large bills of the Tehuantepec Myiarchi; the 

 extremely variable bills of the Jamaican M. stolidus. 



2 An unquestionable fact, in its application to crinitus and some others. 

 Authors, however, speak of color-differences in the sexes of the South Ame- 

 rican species, ferox. I have been unable to verify such statements, and 

 think that a point of age, not of sex, is involved, younger birds having ru- 

 fous that afterward disappears. If so be it, that such sexual differences 

 really subsist in the case of ferox, then my entire characterization of that 

 species falls to the ground, and the bird cannot be specifically distinguished 

 from the variety of crinitus that I call irritabilis, beyond. 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



tinuously subjected to local modifying influences of a special 

 kind, it preserves its peculiarities intact; specimens from the ex- 

 tremes of its range are utterly indistinguishable. But the non- 

 migratory individuals of Mexico, belonging to the same crinitus 

 stock, present recognizable local varieties; whilst M. stolidus, a 

 thoroughly localized bird, stationary in several places, has de- 

 veloped several sharply distinguished insular races peculiar to the 

 islands they respectively occupy. 1 



I can offer no satisfactory explanation of the fact that several 

 species of the genus are distinguished by the amount of rufous 

 coloring, though I suspect it may be referable to proposition e, 

 considering fuscous a "more intense" coloration than rufous. 

 Certainly the northernmost bird, crinitus, and the bird of the 

 New Mexican deserts, have the most rufous of any continental 

 forms. The extent of rufous decreases even in the Mexican varie- 

 ties of crinitus, is still less in laivrencii, and almost or quite 

 disappears in the purely tropical nigriceps, ferox, and phseocepha- 

 lus. But even continental specimens of an opposite character occur, 

 whilst the insular species, validus and stolidus, offer completely 

 rebutting testimony. 



This general question of the production of the rufous aside, 

 study of these birds makes it evident that large allowance must 

 be granted for purely individual commonly called "accidental" 

 differences in amount or intensity of the rufous in specimens of 

 the same species. Though it is certain that, for example, validus, 

 cinerascens, and crinitus, with its varieties, may each be recog- 

 nized wi/h tolerable facility by their respective patterns of the 

 rufous, whether occupying the whole, or a small part, or a different 

 part of the inner webs of the rectrices, yet it is equally certain 

 that no such slight distinctions as its occupying a fourth, a fifth, 

 or a sixth of the web, fading insensibly or changing abruptly into 

 the fuscous, etc., can be relied upon at all. Among the varieties 

 of M. stolidus, indeed, we can trace the restriction of the rufous 

 by insensible degrees, from its occupying two-thirds of the inner 

 web to its narrow edging of the feather, and finally to its forming 

 a mere trace at the end. Moreover, the rufous differs so much in 



1 Cf. remarks upon the more stationary forms of Aegiothus, as compared 

 with the most nomadic individuals (linarius) of the genus. Coues, P. A. 

 N. S. P. 1869, p. 182, et seq. 



1812."] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



extent and even in pattern in the same individual at different 

 stages of plumage, that we can only compare age for age and 

 season for season with any success in determination of specific 

 characters. It is most probable that even the wide limits I set for 

 variability in this respect, due to age, season, and individual pecu- 

 liarity, will require to be somewhat enlarged. 



The foregoing paragraphs must not be construed as any attempt 

 to undervalue the interesting and sometimes extremely curious 

 characters distinguishing the several species. Though in the 

 following pages I may appear to have "unnecessarily," if not 

 unwarrantably, reduced the number of species, }^et I am persuaded 

 that no unprejudiced ornithologist could have reached different 

 conclusions upon study of the same material. It may be well to 

 remember that two hundred specimens of Myiarchus have never 

 before been examined by one person at a coup d'ceil; and I really 

 think that with two thousand specimens instead of two hundred, 

 I should not be able to establish as many species as are here 

 allowed. Others will judge whether I have placed the species 

 here discussed upon sure footing ; I simply ask for impartial 

 criticism. 



1. Myiarchus validus. 



Tyrannus crinitus, Gosse, B. Jam. 18G ; nee anct. 

 Myiarclius validus, Cab., Orn. Not. ii. 351, et auct. 

 Myionax validus, Cab., M. H. ii. 73. 

 Pyroceplialus {Myionax) validus, Gr., H.-L. No. 5520. 

 Tyrannula gossii, Bp., C. A. i. 189. 

 Bed Petchary, Anglice. 



M. inter majores, rostro crasso, tarsum requante ; coloribus 

 intensis ; olivaceo-fuscus, gula cinereo-plumbea, hinc ventre sensim 

 sordide flavido ; remigibus, rectricibus tectricibusque alarum supe- 

 rioribus et intus et extus rufomarginatis, tectricibus alarum cau- 

 daeque inferioribus rufescentibus. Long. tot. t. 50-8.50, alas et 

 caudre 3.80-4.20, tarsi et rostri .80-.90, digiti 3tii cum ungue 

 .70-.80; rostri latitudo ad nares .35-.40. (Poll. Angl. et dec.) 



Hab. Ins. Jamaica. (Mus. S. I. et Gr. N. L.) 



Obs. A stationary localized form which by isolation from its 

 allies and continuous subjection to special modifying influences, 

 has become so far differentiated as to be recognizable on sight, 

 and which is not now known to intergrade with its nearest ally, 

 crinitus. 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



The bill is nearly at the maximum size for the genus, is largely 

 light-colored at base below, and not perfectly black elsewhere, as in 

 var. cooperi, another subtropical form. The rufous coloration is 

 at the maximum both of intensity and extent ; it occupies a part 

 or the whole of every single feather of the wings and tail and their 

 coverts ; it is intense on the outer edges of the primaries, paler on 

 the inner edges of these and other remiges, paler still (yet not 

 whitish) on the outer edges of the inner remiges; it tips and 

 edges all the upper coverts, and suffuses all the under coverts, 

 both of wings and tail ; it usually occupies the whole outer rectrix, 

 and whole inner web of the other rectrices (saving the middle pair), 

 excepting a narrowest possible shaft line ; moreover, it narrowly 

 edges the outer webs of the rectrices. In fact, the tail might be 

 described as rufous, with the central rectrices and a narrow 

 shaft line on the others, fuscous. Nothing like this is known to 

 occur in any continental form. Likewise the bird has a peculiar 

 sordid aspect below, arising from impurity both of the ash and the 

 yellow ; which colors have no definite line of separation. 



Jamaica the only recorded locality. 



No synonymical questions involved. 



Specimens examined, five. 

 2. Myiarchus crinitus. 



a. var. crinitus. 



Muscicapa crinita, L., S. N. i. 325. 



Tyrannus crinitus, Sws., Quart. J. xx. 1826, 271. 



Myiobius crinitus, Gr., G. B. i. 248. 



Tyrannula crinita, Bp., C. A. i. 189. 



Myiarchus crinitus, Cab., J. f. 0. iii. 1855, 479, et auct. 



Myionax crinitus, Cab., M. H. ii. 73. 



Myiarchus (Myionax) crinitus, Scl., C. A. B. 232. 



Pyrocephalus (Myionax) crinitus, Gr., H.-L. No. 5518. 



Muscicapa ludoviciana, Gm., S. N. i. 934. 



Tyrannus ludovicianus V., O. A. S. i. pi. 45. 



Muscicapa virginea, Mull. (G. R. Gr.) 



M. virginea cristala, Briss. Orn. ii. 412. P. E. 569, f. 1. (G. R. Gr.) 



Crested Flycatcher, Anglice. 



M. inter majores, rostro moclico, tarso breviore, coloribus Claris ; 

 olivaceus, gula cinerea, nine ventre, crisso tectricibusque alarum 

 inferioribus flavis ; rernigibus primariis et extus et intus, rectricibus 

 (mediis exceptis) intus nee extus rufomarginatis ; rectrice exteriore, 

 rernigibus secondariis, tectricibusque alarum superioribus flavidal- 

 1872.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



bido marginatis, in pogoniis rectricum interioribus colore rufo 

 latissimo, fusco angustissimo, linea, recta segregates ; rostro fusco, 

 infra ad basin pallido. Long. 7.50-8.00, aire et caifdae 3.80-4.20, 

 tarsi .75 .85 (nunquam .90 ?), digiti 3tii .65-. 75, rostri .70-.80, 

 rostri lat. .33-.40. 



Habitat sestiv. partibns orient. Reip. Amer. Sept., hyeme Amer. 

 Centrali, prsesertim Guatemala. (Costa Rica, Lawr., Ann. Lye. 

 1868, 115.) Cuba? (Gundl., 239.) An Amer. Merid. ? 



Obs. These references and diagnosis apply exclusively to the 

 bird that breeds in the United States, entirely withdrawing in the 

 fall to winter in Central America. This is pure crinitus ; the birds 

 that summer in Mexico and elsewhere south of the United States 

 have developed other varieties (infra). During the extensive 

 migrations, its passage seems rapid and its path narrow ; for we 

 have no Antillean (except as above) nor West Mexican quotations 

 of the bona fide crinitus, and few Mexican skins are certainly re- 

 ferable to it. In passing from its winter headquarters, either it flies 

 across the Gulf, or else it hugs the eastern coast of Mexico. I have 

 yet to see typical crinitus from South America. 



Diagnostic points to be remembered are these : bill never quite 

 black ; stout and comparatively short, hardly or not equalling 

 the tarsus, which latter never (?) touches .90 ; back pure olive, 

 throat pure ash, belly, etc., pure yellow; inner secondaries and 

 upper wing coverts and outer rectrix edged with yellowish-white 

 (never rufous cf.validus), in marked contrast with rufous edgings 

 of primaries and inner webs of rectrices ; all rectrices but the 

 middle pair so nearly completely rufous on the inner webs that a 

 mere line of fuscous persists next the shaft (cf. irritabilis et 

 cooperi) ; this runs of equal breadth the whole length of the 

 feathers (cf. cinerascens) ; it is sometimes inappreciable on some 

 feathers (then about as in validus) ; none of the rectrices ever with 

 more than a trace of rufous on the outer web. 



About sixt}' specimens examined. (Mus. S. I., etc. etc.) Xearly 

 all these not of the United States are Guatemalan, are positive 

 duplicates of Pennsylvania skins, for instance, and were doubtless 

 hatched in the United States. Other Guatemalan examples and 

 man3 r Mexican skins of birds that never saw the United States, 

 represent different varieties, as follows. 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G5 



b. var. irritabilis. 

 Tyr annus irritabilis, Vieillot, Ency. Meth. 1823, ii. 847, ex Suiriri pardoy- 



rojo, Azara, Apunt. ii. 143, No. 195. Paraguay. 

 Tyramiula irritabilis, Bp., C. A. i. 189. "Amer. Merid. Parag." 

 Myiarchus erythrocercus, Scl. et Salv., P. Z. S. 1868, 631, 632. Venezuela. 

 Myiarchus mexicanus, Lawr., A. L. N. Y. ix. 1869, 202. Yucatan. 

 Myiarchus yucata?iensis, Lawr., P. A. N. S. P. 1871, 235. Yucatan. 

 Pyrocephalus (Myionax) erythrocercus, Gr., H-L., No. 5522 (" crinitus p. 



Hart!.; irritabilis p. Bp. ; ferox %, Burm.") 

 Num Myiarchus mexicanus, Kaup, P. Z. S. 1851, 51 ? 



M. Myiarcho crinito ipsissimo simillimus, seel notaeo aliqu,antu- 

 lura obscuriore, gastrseo aliquantulum dilutiore, rectricibus rufo 

 et fusco fere dimidiatis ! rostro modico, nee crassitie M. cooperi pari. 



Habitat in America Centrali et Meridionali. Paraguay {Page; 

 avis Azarana-Vieillotiana ipsissima! Mus. S. I., No. 16,349). 

 Parana (Page; Mus. S. I., No. 16,348). Bahia (Mus. G. N. L. ; 

 spec, cum typo erythi-ocerci, Scl., comparatum et identicum esse 

 probatum). Venezuela (unde erythrocercus ipsiss.). Yucatan 

 (Mus. S. I. et Gr. N. L. specimina typica yucatanensis, Lawr., 

 1811 = mexicanus Lawr., 1869). Guatemala (Mus. G. N. L). 

 Costa Rica (Mus. S. I., No. 29,423). 



Obs. This bird, so far from being specifically distinct from the 

 ordinary North American form, is so extremely similar as to be 

 with difficulty recognizable as a variety of typical crinitus. The 

 size is the same; there are no evident nor constant differences in 

 the relative proportions of bill, feet, tail, and wings, and the general 

 colors only differ by a shade. The bill is exactly as in crinitus ; 

 having neither the elongate, constricted shape of cinerascens, nor 

 the general bulkiness of var. coojieri and of validus. In most of 

 my specimens it happens that the plumage is old and worn, so 

 that these look browner or grayer on the back than is usual for 

 true crinitus; but the Paraguay and Parana skins in better 

 feather are not to my eye an appreciable shade different from 

 several United States skins ; the yellow below, however, is recog- 

 nizably paler, and the gular ash seems to have a little more pectoral 

 extension. There is, however, one obvious and nearly constant 

 discrepancy in the pictura of the tail feathers, enabling me to 

 predicate a variety. On on average the rufous and the fuscous on 

 the inner webs of the rectrices are dimidiate half-and-half in 

 amount; this never occurs to my knowledge in United States 

 crinitus (cf. descr.). The relative breadth varies as follows: The 

 1872.] 




66 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



fuscous occupies from to in the type of " yucatanensis" and 

 other skins of the same, shot at the same time by the same person ; 

 from f to i on different feathers of the tail of the Bahia specimen 

 " compared with type of 'erythrocercus' in Mus. P. L. S. ;" from i 

 to ^ in the Parana and Paraguay skins ; from ^ to ^ in some Central 

 American skins ; and then we have \-^ to nil in a Nicaraguan 

 (S. I., No. 41,189) and in various North American skins. Com- 

 ment is unnecessary. 



As the foregoing synonym}' may be regarded with mistrustful 

 surprise, it becomes me to state my case explicitly. " Tyrannus 

 irritabilis Vieill." is generally enumerated amongst the synonyms 

 of crinitus correctly so, leaving out of consideration the varieties 

 of the latter. But Vieillot's bird, being based on Azara, is of 

 course South American, and I have yet to see pure crinitus from 

 that portion of the continent, all my South American specimens 

 being characterizable as above. So we have "a local habitation 

 and a name," as firm ground for further investigation. 



I take the Nos. 16,349, 16,348 (Paraguay and Parana) as 

 being unquestionably the Azara- Vieillot bird ; they are both dis- 

 tinguishable from United States crinitus by the characters above 

 detailed ; but one of them has the fuscous stripe along the inner 

 web much broader than the other. 



Next, the Bahia skin (Mus. G. N. L.), as I see by the label, has 

 been compared with the type of erythrocercus, in Mus. P. L. S., 

 and found identical. It is in poor plumage, quite brownish above, 

 and " streak}'" below, and has the fuscous rather broader still, but 

 there is less difference in the breadth of the fuscous in this speci- 

 men, and in No. 16,348, than there is between 16,348 and 16,349. 

 All three are unquestionably identical. This fixes the status of 

 ""erythrocercus." 



Then, the type of "yucatanensis" Lawr. 1871 ( = "mexieanus'' 

 Lawr. 1869), now in my hands, has the rufous and fuscous exactly 

 as in typical " erythrocercus," and is in other respects a duplicate 

 of the latter. That Mr. Lawrence did not recognize this identity is 

 doubtless due to the fact that his example of "eiythrocercus" 

 was not in his hands at the time. When he published "yuca- 

 tanensis (based on the same Yucatan specimen he called " mexi- 

 canus" in 1869) lie did so simpl}' upon Dr. Sclater's announcement 

 that mexicanus Kaup was the bird called " cooperi" by Baird 

 quite a different variety, and usually held to be a different species. 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



Tims we arrive at the above synonym}'. I should add. in 

 justice to an excellent young ornithologist, noted for discrimi- 

 native abilities, that I am not the first to perceive the identity of 

 the specimens here discussed. They are all labelled "mexicanus" 

 in Robert Ridgway's handwriting he having accurately distin- 

 guished them from the following larger, heavier-billed form from 

 Southern Mexico. But Kaup's name, even if it belongs here, is 

 clearly anticipated by Vieillot's. 



Specimens examined, ten. 



c. vae. cooperi. 



" Tyrannula mexicana, Kanp, P. Z. S., 1851, 51," auctoritate Sclat- 

 eriana, fide Lawr., P. A. N. S. P. 1871, 235. Non auctorum! 



Tyrannula cooperi, Kanp, P. Z. S. 1851, 51. Non Muscicapa cooperi 

 Nuttall, quae Contopus borealis. 



Myiarchus cooperi, Baird, B. N. A. 180. Scl. P. Z. S. 1859, 384; C. A. B. 

 233. S. and S., Ibis, 1859, 122, 440. 



M. Myiarcho crinito similis ; maxim us inter majores; rostro 

 enormi, nigro; notreo obscuriore, gastrseo dilutiore; fusco et rufo 

 in pogoniis interioribus rectricum fere dimidiatis. Long, rostri a 

 fronte in apicem .80-1.00; aire et caudoe 3.90-4.25; tarsi .S5-.95 ; 

 long tot. (exuviarum) 7.50-9.00. 



Habitat. Mexico, prresertim partibus merid.-occid. "Mexico" 

 (Verreaux, Salle, Mus. S. I.). Tehuantepec (Sumichrast, Mus. S. 

 I. et G. N. L.). Mazatlan, Guadalaxara (Grayson, Mus. S. I.) 

 "Gautemala" (Mus. P. L. S., fide ejusd. Cat.). 



Obs. This variety is distinguished, in its extreme of develop- 

 ment, from crinitus by the larger size, skins running up to nine 

 inches; by the larger bill, which sometimes attains a length of an 

 inch, and equals, or even slightly exceeds, the tarsi, which are 

 themselves usually a tenth of an inch longer than in crinitus; 

 by the olivaceous being not so clear as in crinitus, nor the under 

 parts (usually) so bright yellow; and especialty by the presence 

 of a band of fuscous on the inner webs of the rectrices, varying 

 from i or ^ to nearly ^ the width of the vanes. In its strongest 

 differentiation, the variety looks very different from t3^pical crini- 

 tus, but with only a dozen specimens on hand, I can trace it 

 directly into crinitus, of which it is unquestionably a mere local 

 race. It seems nearly confined to southern and southwestern 

 Mexico; Sclater, however, quotes it from Guatemala. 



1872.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The Mazatlan and Guadalaxara skins are the two bis^est 

 Myiarchi I ever saw ; one of them is marked "length (fresh) 9^;" 

 their bills are enormous, comparing with ordinary crinitus almost 

 as Tyrannus magnirostris or crassirostris do with carolinensis. 

 The}' are scarcely different from crinitus in color, except in the 

 definite fuscous stripe, about tj the width of the inner web, on 

 the tail feathers. The several Tehuantepec skins are essentially 

 similar, but grade towards crinitus, or rather towards irritabilis, 

 and in other skins the boundary line is too shadowy to be seen 

 at all. 



Of ni}- own knowledge, of course I have no idea what the 

 " Tyrannula mexicana" of Kaup is for no one who has not seen 

 the type can tell anything about it. But, according to Mr. Law- 

 rence (/. c), Dr. Selater has recently examined the type, and 

 announces it is what Prof. Baird called "cooperi" in 1858. Now 

 I have in my hand the specimen (No. 9100, Mus. S. I., "Mexique," 

 Verreaux) that furnished the account in the Birds of North 

 America, and it is one of the large heavy-billed examples of true 

 var. cooperi as characterized in this paper ; that is to sa}', " mexi- 

 canus" Kaup, and "cooperi" Kaup, are one and the same thing, 

 if Dr. Selater has correctby apprehended Prof. Baird's article. I 

 hardly see, however, how this can be, for Kaup must have meant 

 to indicate two species or varieties, and it is reasonable to suppose 

 his specimens showed some differences. My own surmise is, that 

 the t} r pe of " mexicanus" is one of those intermediate specimens 

 that Dr. Selater could hardly help identifying with Baird's de- 

 scription of "cooperi," the latter's No. 9100 being by no means 

 one of the largest-billed specimens ; and it seems to be also Mr. 

 Ridgway's opinion, to judge by his labelling, that " mexicanus" is 

 rather referable to the smaller-billed variety above characterized 

 under the name of irritabilis. However, the game is not worth 

 the candle, since fortunateby it proves that the name need not be 

 used at nil; and the sooner "mexicanus" is forgotten the better. 

 It has caused vexatious mistakes enough already, four different 

 authors having used it in as many different senses, in tire vain 

 attempt to identify something not identifiable. 



Turning to a more inviting point, it is interesting to observe 

 how many Myiarchi come to a focus, as it were, on and near the 

 Isthmus, and thence radiate in all directions. First we have in 

 winter the birds that breed in the United States, constituting true 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G9 



crinitus ; another, non-migratory, set spreading for a short dis- 

 tance northwestward to form the local race cooperi, and yet 

 another, chiefly spreading southward throughout the greater part 

 of South America, forming the variety irritabilis. It is little, if 

 any, beyond the southern terminus of cinerascens, forms the 

 southern limit of laiorencei, and constitutes the northern boundary 

 of nigriceps and tyrannulus (ferox). In fact, every continental 

 species treated of in this paper, excepting phseocephalus, occurs 

 between Tehuantepec and Panama; this is the very centre of the 

 genus. 



Specimens examined, twelve. 



3. Myiarchus cinerascens. 



Tyrannula cinerascens, Lawr., A. L. N. Y. v, 1851, 109 (descr. orig.). 

 Myiarchus cinerascens, Scl., Ibis, 1859, 121, 440; P. Z. S. 1859, 384; 



C. A. B. 233 (excl. syn. Tyr. mexicana, Kaup). 

 Myarchus mexicanits, Bd., B. N. A. 179 (sed non Tyr. mex., Kaup) ; 



Coues, P. A. N. S. P., 1806, 59 ; Coop., B. Cal. i., 316, cum fig. 

 Myionax mexicanus, Cab., M. H. ii., 74 (non Kaup). 

 M. mexicanus var. pertinax, Bd., P. A. N. S. P., 1859, 303 (Cap. St. 



Lucas). 



M. inter majores, rostro angusto, nigro; coloribus dilutis; oliva- 

 ceo-cinereus, pileo brnnnescentiore, gula ex albida cinerea, ventre 

 sensim ex albido flavo; remigibus secondariis tectricibusque ala- 

 rum superioribus albido marginatis; remigibus primariis rectri- 

 cibusque rufo-indutis ut in M. crinito, sed rufo vix in apicein 

 rectricum porrecto, et ab fusco linea eurvata segregate Statu ra 

 M. crinito par, tarsis longioribus (.80-.90), rostro angustiore 

 (.21-.3S). 



Habitat partibus Eeip. Amer. S. merid.-occid., et Mexico. 

 Utah (McCarthy). Nevada (Ridgway). N. Mexico, Arizona 

 (Cones). California (Cooper'). Cap. St. Lucas (Xantus, " var. 

 pertinax"). Texas (Couch). Mazatlan (Grayson). Mirador 

 (Sartorius). Tehauntepec (Sumichrast). Orizava (Botteri). Mus. 

 S. I., G. N. L., E. C, etc. 



Obs. One of the better marked species of this difficult group. 

 I have seen no indeterminable specimens, though I suspect that 

 questionable ones will yet appear from southwestern Mexico. 

 But the fact that the bird occurs there associated with varieties 

 of crinitus without losing its distinctive features, favors the sup- 

 position of its integrity. 

 1872.J 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The most reliable peculiarity of cinerascens is the contour of 

 the rufous on the rectrices. In all other Myiarchi examined the 

 rufous, no matter how broad or how narrow, is straight-edged 

 against the fuscous from base to tip; but in cinerascens it occu- 

 pies the whole inner web for about -| or the length of the 

 feather, and then bends inward to give way to fuscous that conse- 

 quently possesses most or all of the tip of the feather. It is a 

 curiously slight matter to be so constant as it appears ; and it is 

 not absolutely invariable. Thus, in U. S. specimens, constituting 

 the best-marked examples, the rufous is commonly altogether shut 

 off from the end of the feathers, while in Tehuantepec skins the 

 rufous gains the very tip, being but little encroached upon by the 

 fuscous. However, even in these specimens, which barely escape 

 being troublesome, the peculiar pattern is exhibited. But in no 

 case do other than adult birds show the peculiarity ; e. g., in No. 

 1595, Mus. E. C, shot from the nest in Arizona, the wings and 

 tail are nearly as rufous as in validus! the margins of all the 

 remiges and upper wing coverts, and all the tail feathers are 

 rufous, the rectrices having each merely a narrow shaft-line of 

 fuscous; the upper parts are grayish-brown, without olive; the 

 cap warm pure brown, the belly white, slashed with yellow. 



But cinerascens has other marks, none of them infallible, all of 

 them nevertheless useful. It is the palest Myiarchus of all. The 

 upper parts are gray, merely suffused with olive, and browner on 

 the head; the gular ash is gray and hoary; the belly very pale 

 yellow, or yellowish-white, without sharp demarcation from the 

 hoary on the breast; the margining of the inner secondaries and 

 wing coverts is grayish-white (not yellowish nor ochrey-white) ; 

 the bill is almost perfectly black. My palest birds come from the 

 United States deserts and from Cape St. Lucas; here the olive 

 above and yellow below are barely appreciable. Tehuantepec and 

 Mazatlan birds are the brightest ; here the yellow is almost as 

 pure as in crinitus (and these, it will be remembered, are the ones 

 with rather 'dubious tail-coloration). 



There is nothing diagnostic in the size or shape of this bird, 

 but several tangible characters are usually exhibited. Compared 

 with crinitus, the bill has a constricted, somewhat more terete 

 shape ; probably it is rarely if ever quite half as wide as long op- 

 posite the nostrils. The tarsi average longer, frequently touching 

 .90. The wings average a little shorter relatively, and the tail a 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 71 



trifle longer, the latter exceeding the former, on an average, .10 

 to .25, instead of equalling the wings. 



Yar. " pertinax" not distinguishable even as a local race ; the 

 specimens vary inter se, and some of them are perfect duplicates 

 of my Arizona skins. The yellow-bellied Tehuantepec bird comes 

 much nearer the requirements of a geographical variety. 



Baird's erroneous identification of Kaup's " mexicana" is per- 

 fectly excusable, and, indeed, was well nigh unavoidable under the 

 circumstances. Kaup's careless notice is worthless for all practi- 

 cal purposes, and we have to thank Dr. Sclater for telling us 

 what his bird really is. (Cf. Lawr., P. A. N. S. P., 1871, 235.) 

 Other American writers copied Baird's mistake. This point 

 settled, the sjmonymy of the bird is plain, Mr. Lawrence's origi- 

 nal description being perfectly satisfactoiy. 



Specimens examined, thirt} r -five, from the above-mentioned and 

 intermediate localities. 



4. Myiarchus tyrannulus. 



Muscicapa tyrannulus, Mull. (G. R. Gr., H.-L. No. 5527.) 



Muscicapa aurora, Bodd., P. E. 571, f. 1. (G. R. Gr.) 



Muscicapa flaviventris, Steph. (G. R. Gr.) 



Muscicapa ferox, Gm., S. N. i. 934, e Buff. 1. c. Max. Beitr. iii. 285. 



Tyrannus ferox, Vieill., Erie. Met. ii. 848; Sws., Quart. J. xx. 1826, 



276; D'Orb., Voy. Ois. 306. 

 Myiarchus ferox, Cab., Orn. Not. i. 248; Schomb. Guiana, iii. 700; 



M. H. ii. 73 ; Burm., Syst. Uebers. ii. 470; Scl. P. Z. S. 1855, 150 ; 



C. A. B. 233. 

 Myiarchus sioainsoni, Cab., M. H. ii. 72. (Specim. Braziliana.) 

 ' Myiarchus panamensis, Lawr., A. L. N. Y vii. 1860, 284, 295. (Spec. 



e i anama et N. Grenada). Id., ibid. ix. 1868, 115. (Costa Rica.) 

 Myiarchus venezuelensis, Lawr., P. A. N. S. P., 1865, 38. (Sp. junior. 



e Venez.) 



M. inter majores, rostro modico ; olivaceo-fuscus, gula, cinerea, 

 ventre flavo, alis caudaque fuscis, baud rufo indutis, rectricibus 

 concoloribus, remigibus primariis intus, secondariis ex intus et 

 extus, flavido marginatis. Long tot. 7-7.75 ; alee 3.30-3.70, caudge 

 3.50-3.90, tarsi .80-.90, rostri .65-.75. 



Habitat Amer. Cent, et Merid. Panama (Hicks, McLeannan, 



Galbraith, Mus. G. N. L.). Venezuela (Nash, Mus. G. N. L.). New 

 Granada (Schott, Mus. S. I.). Costa Rica (Arce, Mus. O. S., fide 

 Lawr. 1. c). Para, Bogota, Trinidad, Tobago, Bolivia (Mus. P. L.S.. 



1872.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fide ejusd. Cat.). Bahia (Bryant, Mus. S. I.). Brazil (Mus. L. 

 Agassiz). 



Obs. The ordinary South American Myiarchus is distinguished 

 at a glance from all the foregoing by the reduction of the rufous 

 edging of the rectrices and primaries to a mere trace, or its entire 

 absence. 



This bird averages a little smaller than crinitus; the bill is 

 shaped and colored exactly as in that species, but is rather 

 smaller ; the wings are shorter, both absolutely and relatively, not 

 often quite equalling the tail; the tarsi, on the contrary, are a 

 little longer. In these respects the bird tallies to a nicety with 

 cinerascens. 



The colors are rarely if ever as bright and clear as in crinitus. 

 There is generally a mere trace of rufous on the outer edges of the 

 primaries and rectrices, and in younger birds is quite noticeable; 

 but I have never seen a touch of it on the inner webs of the rec- 

 trices. The outer edges of the wing coverts and inner remises, 

 and the outer edges of the outer rectrices. and the inner edges of 

 the remiges, are whitish or pale yellowish ; otherwise the wings 

 and tail are concolor and unicolor. 



With both Mr. Lawrence's types, a typical Brazilian swainsoni 

 labelled in Dr. Sclater's handwriting, and various unquestionable 

 ferox before me, I cannot distinguish even a geographical variety 

 among them all. The} 7 are indisputably identical. 



Swainsoni is one of those constant!}' recurring cases of the 

 attempt to distinguish Brazilian individuals from specimens of the 

 same species from northern South America. Sometimes, I know, 

 local influences have produced modifications recognizable as geo- 

 graphical varieties, and I am willing to admit in this case that 

 swainsoni may run a shade darker, and possibty average a trifle 

 larger than ordinary ferox; but the difference is not even tangible, 

 much less reasonably constant. Birds from either locality differ 

 as much among themselves as they do from each other; and some 

 specimens of swainsoni are more like ferox than they are like 

 other specimens of swainsoni. 



Panamensis, as originally described, was compared with crinitus 

 and cinerascens, and its striking differences correctly indicated. 

 But I am persuaded that if Mr. Lawrence had compared it with 

 ferox, he would have been satisfied of its identit}' with the latter. 



Venezuelensis is based upon a youngish bird, which, as usual 



[July 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



in this genus (see above), shows more rufous than is retained in 

 adult life. The outer webs of the rectrices show quite a rufous 

 edging; but there is none at all on the inner webs; and in all 

 other respects the specimen is a perfect duplicate of some skins 

 of ferox. 



The older names above quoted, including the one it seems ne- 

 cessary to adopt for the species, are given upon Gray's authority. 

 I have not been able to look up the references, but I presume there 

 is no doubt of their pertinence. 



Specimens examined, thirteen. 



5. Myiarchus phseocephalus. 



Myiarclius phwocephalus, Scl., P. Z. S. 1860, 481 ; C. A. B. 233. 

 (Babakoyo, Ecuador.) Lawr., A. L. N. Y. ix. 1869, 237. (Guayaquil.) 



M. inter majores, rostro modico ; olivaceus, caput versus cine- 

 rascens, gula cinerea, ventre flavo, pileo alis caudaque fuscis, his 

 non rufo notatis, remigibus interioribus rectricibusque exterioribus 

 extus albido marginatis; statura 31. crinito par? 



Hab. Ecuador (Frazer, Mus. P. L. S., fide Cat. A. B.). Ins. 

 Puna, Guayaquil (Reeve, Mus. S. I., No. 54,083). 



Obs. My material is insufficient for a satisfactory determina- 

 tion in this case, but the species is different from any other, so 

 far as I can judge from the single imperfect specimen before me, 

 labelled phseocephalus in Lawrence's handwriting, which is the basis 

 of his citation, I. c. It is apparently an old bird moulting, the quills 

 and tail feathers being ungrown. The wings and tail are blackish 



O CD CD 



with the whitish edgings above mentioned, and are without a trace 

 of rufoul ; in these respects the bird is like ferox, but there the 

 resemblance ends, phseocephalus being clear olive, much like 

 crinitus on the back, shading on the head and neck into olivaceous 

 ash, not very different from that of the throat. The pileum shows 

 quite dusky in contrast. The whitish edgings of the remiges and 

 outer tail feathers are strong. The dimensions cannot be given 

 exactly, but the bird seems to have been nearly 8 inches long, 

 with the wing and tail each about 3| ; the bill measures .75 from 

 the front, the tarsus .90. 



Additional information respecting the bird is desirable, since 

 there is room for suspicion that it is a local race of the preceding. 



1872.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



6. MYiARcntrs lawkencii. 



Tyrannula lawrencii, Gir., 16 Sp. Tex. B. pi. 2. 



Myiarchus lawrencii, Baird, B. K A. 181, pi. 47, f. 3. Bel., P. Z. S. 



1859, 366, 384. Id. et Salv., Ibis, 1859, 121, 440. Taylor, ibid. 114. 



Lawr., A. L. N. Y. ix. 1868, 113. Id., ibid. ix. 1869, 204. 

 Blacicus lawrencii, Bd., B. N. A. 182. 



Pyroce/phalus {Myiarchus) lawrencii, Gr., H.-L. No. 5525 (cum 5529). 

 Myiarchus mcxicanus, Scl., P. Z. S. 1856, 296. 

 Myiarchus rufomarginatus, Cab., M. H. ii. 73. 

 Myiarchus nigricapilhis, "Cab. MSS." (e specim. costaricensibns ; cf. 



J. f. O. 1861, 249), apnd Scl., C. A. B. 233. Lawr., A. L. K Y. ix. 



1868, 113 ; recte haesitat ! 



M. inter rninores, rostro lato clepresso; fusco-olivaceus, pileo 

 statimfuscescente, gulacinerea, ventre statimflavissirno; remigilms 

 tectricibusque et extus et intus rufomarginatis,rectricibus omnibus 

 semper extus, crebrissime necnon intus rufomarginatis. Long, 

 tot. 6-6.75; alae et caudse 3.00-3.33, rostri .62-.70, tarsi .65-.7S. 



Habitat. Mexico et Amer. Cent. Texas ? (auct. Giraucl.) N". 

 Leone (Coach, apud Baird). Colima (Xantiis). Mazatlan 

 (Grayson). Orizava, Tehuantepec (Sumichrast). Guatemala 

 (Salvin et ah). Merida (Schott). Grecia, Barranca. Angostura 

 (Carmiol, Frantzius). 



Obs. With much the same strong olive, clear ash, and rich 

 yellow that characterize crinitus, lawrencii is distinguished on 

 sight by its smaller size ; pileum generally dark, in strong contrast 

 to the back ; wing coverts and inner secondaries edged with much 

 the same rufous as the primaries are (as in validus), and very 

 narrow rufous edging of the tail feathers, often wanting altogether 

 on the inner webs, and almost always stronger on the outer webs 

 than on the inner ones. In young birds the edging of the inner 

 webs is usually very noticeable, but it is never, so far as I have 

 seen, so broad as is usually the case with the associated continental 

 species and varieties ; never half the breadth of the vane. Further- 

 more, the bill of lawrencii departs from the thick, deep, heavy style 

 of the larger Myiarchi, and is broad and flat nearly as in the smaller 

 olivaceous flycatchers, such as Contopus and Empidonax. It varies 

 much, as usual, in precise shape, but is generally just about half 

 its own length broad at the nostrils. 



Mr. Lawrence has already very properly called attention to the 

 fact, that the supposed M. nigricapilhis of Dr. Cabanis offers no 

 tangible specific characters ; while for myself I cannot make out 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. v 15 



that it is even a recognizable variety. It is true that in Costarica 

 laivrencii tends to be a little darker on the pileum, with the yellow 

 a little more extensive ; but it is also true that these characters 

 will not decide the status of ten per cent, of current specimens. 

 NigHcapillus is simply a slight tendency towards nigriceps. 



The normal variations in size and color are precisely parallel 

 with those already discussed under head of M. cinerascens. 

 Northern and western specimens average a trifle paler than 

 usual ; the southernmost are the brightest. Sometimes the 

 edgings of the inner remiges and the coverts are whitish. Tehu- 

 antepec skins show the stoutest bill ; this is likewise the case in 

 crinitus var. and cinerascens, showing the uniform operation of 

 some unknown local influences. One example (34,810, Mus. S. I., 

 Costarica) has exceptionally short wings and tail, these members 

 measuring only 2.80 and 2.90 respectively. 



Specimens examined, thirty-three. The bird seems to range 

 throughout Mexico and Central America. I have never seen a 

 United States skin, and though the species may overstep the 

 Mexican boundary, this remains to be shown. Probably Giraud's 

 bird came from Northeastern Mexico, as some others of his sixteen 

 "Texas" birds certainly did. 



7. Myiarchus nigriceps. 



Myiarchus nigriceps, Scl., P. Z. S. 1860, 68, 295; Cat. A. B. 234 



(Ecuador). Lawr. Ann. Lye. 1861, 327 (New Grenada). 

 Myiarchus hrunneiceps, Lawr., 1. c. (nomen pro temp.). 



M. inter minores, rostro lato depresso ; clare olivaceus, pileo 

 statim nig-icante, gula restricta clare cinerea, pectore et ventre 

 flavissimis ; alis caudaque fusco-nigris, hac innotatis, illis minime 

 rufalbida marginatis. Long. tot. 5.60-6. 25 ; alis et cauclae 2.90-3.10, 

 rostri .60-.65, tarsi .65-. 70, rostri lat. ad basin .30. 



Habitat. Ecuador (Pallatanga, Esmeraldas, Fraser, fide Scl., 

 1. c; Quito, Backalew, Mus. S. I.). Panama (McLeannan and 

 Galbraith, Lawr., 1. a). Mus. Gr. N. L. and S*. I. 



Obs. Distinguishable on sight from lawrencii by the black or 

 blackish cap, in marked contrast with the clear olive back, exten- 

 sion of the rich yellow high up the breast, and particularly by the 

 absence of. rufous on the tail ; in this respect comparing with 

 lawrencii just as ferox does with crinitus. The wings, as usual 

 in the genus, share the extinction of rufous on the tail ; a mere 

 rufous trace can only be detected in some specimens on the outer 

 1872.] 




76' PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



edges of a few primaries, the inner edges of which, however, show 

 it a little more plainly. For the rest, the secondaries and coverts 

 are evidently ochrey-whitish margined. The bird will average 

 smaller than lawrencii, bnt the difference in size is not marked. 



The three specimens examined, one of them the basis of Mr. 

 Lawrence's remarks upon the proposed " brunneiceps," which he 

 has since abandoned, are absolutely identical. Having no doubt 

 that nigriceps is simply a geographical representative of lawrencii, 

 I fear that troublesome specimens will yet occur from intermediate 

 localities. But the differentiation has become perfectly tangible, 

 and I have seen no connecting links, so that I can indorse the 

 species, upon the principles already laid down for my guidance in 

 this paper. 



8. MviARcnus STOLIDUS. 



Notandum : species flexibilis, per insulas Antillarum singulatim 

 diffusa, in stirpes locorum varios secreta, characteres tamen com- 

 muniter prcebentes, ut sequuntur. Statura maxima inter species 

 minores generis ; long. tot. 6.50-7.50, aloe et caudaa 3.00-3.50, 

 rostri .65 .75, tarsi .70-80. Rostrum elongatulum, quodammodo 

 coarctatum. Xotaeum fusco-olivaceum, in pileo statim aut sensini 

 fuscescens. Gula ex albido cinerascens. Venter ex albido flaves- 

 cens aut flavus, rariore albidus. Remiges primarii et rectrices 

 fusci, et extus et intus rufo-marginati, rarissime innotati. Tectrices 

 alarum superiores et remiges secondarii flavidalbido-marginati. 



I admit none of the man} T nominal species established upon 

 this elastic type ; for they all run into each other. But I can 

 distinguish three local races, the extremes of which are readily 

 characterized, though their mutual intergradation as perfect as 

 we ever see in stationary insular birds renders it impossible to 

 put them on substantial specific bases. 



Compared with the only large insular species (validus), these 

 birds of the stolidus- pattern fill the same position that lawrencii 

 holds in relation to the larger continental species and varieties 

 with which it is associated, though they are perfectly distinct 

 from lawrencii. In the lengthened and constricted bill stolidus 

 differs from the flatter-billed laivrencii, and copies a noticeable 

 feature of cinerascens. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ft 



a. var. stolid us. 



Myiobius stolidus, Gosse, B. Jam. 1G8. 



Tyrannula stolida, Kaup, P. Z. S. 1851, 51. 



Myiarchus stolidus, Cab., J. f. O. 1855, 479, et auct. March, P. A. N. S. P. 

 1863, 288. 



Tyrannula (Myiarchus) stolida var. dominicensis, Bry., P. B. S. N. H. 

 xi. 18G6, 90. St. Domingo. 



Pitangus (Kaupomis) stolidus, Gray, H.-L. No. 5438. 



Myiarchus ("common torn fool") March, 1. c. 289. 



Myiarchus ("greater torn fool"), March, ibid. 



Myiarchus ("curiously feathered bird"), March, ibid. Al- 

 bino. 



M. fusco-olivaceus, pileo statim fusco, gula pallide cinerea, ventre 

 flavo, pogoniis rectricum interioribus fusco et rufo fere dimidiatis. 



Habitat Ins. Jamaica. St. Domingo. Hayti. 



Obs To take this variety as a standard for comparison of the 

 others (though of course it is no more "typical of the species" 

 than either of the others is), I find its particular character in the 

 combination of decidedly yellow belly with tail feathers so broadly 

 edged on the inner web with rufous that this color and the fuscous 

 occupy nearly equal areas. Either color may be restricted to one- 

 third of the width of the web, but neither is ever wanting. The 

 primaries are lightly touched with rufous on their outer webs ; the 

 secondaries and upper coverts are edged with soiled whitish, 

 always evident, generally yellowish, in young birds tinged with 

 rufous. The dark olive of the back is generally pretty pure, con- 

 trasting with the blackish cap ; but in weather-worn plumages the 

 upper par|s are grayish-brown, including the pileum, and in such 

 ragged state the wings show little edging, and the yellow of the 

 belly looks pale and dirty. 



This bird is best known by Jamaican material, but specimens 

 from some of the other islands are indistinguishable. I have 

 before me all the specimens upon which Mr. March (I. c.) based 

 his remarks upon the smaller Jamaican "petcharies" or "torn 

 fools ;" there is certainly nothing but pure stolidus among them, 

 though their individual variations are unusually great. 'Some of 

 the skins appear to somewhat exceed the normal limits above 

 given in size, and the differences in the size and shape of the bill 

 are remarkable. One has a twisted bill ; several others are albi- 

 notic, a condition to which the species seems singularly liable in 

 this locality. 

 18T2.] 




IS PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Examining Dr. Bryant's typical examples of var. dominicensis 

 (Port-au-Prince ; Younglove), I can see that, as he sa3's, the remiges 

 and rectrices are a little more rufous than in most Jamaican skins ; 

 but I also find that they can be precisely matched by some of the 

 latter, and consequently I am unable to recognize a variety in 

 this case. Dr. Biyant's other varieties (lucaysiensis and antil- 

 larum), however, are quite different. 



b. var. pkcebe. 



Tyr annus p7iabe, D'Orb., Sagra's Cuba, Ois. p. 84. Excl. syn. 



" sagrm," Gundl., Av. Cuba. 



Tyrannula (Myiarchus) stolida var. lucaysiensis, Bry., P. B. S. N. H. xi. 



1866, 66. Inagua and Nassau. 

 Tyrannula bahamensis, Bryant, ibid. p. 90 (in text). (Not Empidonax 



baliamensis, Bry.). 



M. olivaceo-fuscus, pileo sensim obscuriore, gula et pectore 

 cinereo-albis, ventre albo vix flavo-tincto, remigibus vix rufomar- 

 ginatis, pogoniis rectricum interioribus rufo et fusco fere dimi- 

 diatis. 



Hab. Cuba. Bahamas. 



Obs. The Cuban and Bahaman birds (which are precisely 

 alike) ordinarily have the inner webs of the rectrices, as in 

 Jamaican stolidus, nearly half rufous, half fuscous ; but the rufous 

 tends to be a little restricted, half the breadth of the vane seeming 

 to be its maximum width, while it is frequently reduced to a mere 

 edging, especially in Cuban skins. Yariety jjheebe, however, is 

 well distinguished from variety stolidus by other characters, the 

 chief of which is the almost entire absence of yellow on the under 

 parts. These, in fact, are "white," shaded in front with aslry, 

 and just tinged behind with 3^ellow the latter, however, is some- 

 times inappreciable. The rufous edging of the primaries is at a 

 minimum ; the whitish edging of the secondaries and upper 

 coverts is at a maximum. There is not so much olive in the 

 color of the upper parts as in var. stolidus, while the cap is much 

 less abruptly darker. 



Dr. Bryant says that his variety (lucaysiensis) is "larger than 

 either the Jamaican stolidus or the Cuban sagrse," and probably 

 this is so, on an average, but any difference there may be in this 

 respect eludes me in comparing any except the largest lucaysiensis 

 with the smallest of the others. I can only distinguish lucaysi- 



[Jnly 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 79 



ensis from true stolidus by the nearly white belly, and find it 

 absolutely inseparable from the Cuban sagrse. 



I cannot find where (if anywhere) Dr. Bryant has characterized 

 the Bahaman bird as " bahamensis ;" but on p. 90, in text under 

 " dominicensis" he says that the latter " differs from sagrae and 

 bahamensis in the distinct yellow of the abdomen," etc., showing 

 that his "bahamensis" is a white-bellied bird, and being from the 

 Bahamas, it must be the same as lucaysiensis. 



C. VAR. antillarum. 

 ? Myiarclms sp., Taylor, Ibis, 1864. Porto Rico. 

 Tyrannus {Myiarclms) antillarum, Bry., P. B. S. N. H. 1866, p. 2. 



Porto Rico. 

 Myiarclms antillarum, Sund., Of. Vet. Ak. Fork. 1869, 599. 

 Tyrannus (Tyrannus) antillarum, Gray, H. L. No. 5544. 



M. olivaceo-fuscus, pileo sensim obscuriore, gula et pectore 

 cinereo-albidis, ventre albo vix aut non flavo-tineto, remigibus 

 primariis minime rufo-marginatis, rectricibus ornnino immarginatis, 

 sed crebrissime macula rufa in apice pogonii interioris notatis. 



Hab. Porto Bico {Bryant, Sivift, Latimer, Mus. S. I.). An 

 Tobago (Jardine)? 



Obs. The Porto Bican form is almost a species. Local differen- 

 tiation is here at an extreme, the better marked examples looking 

 very little like the Jamaican stolidus, and not particularly resem- 

 bling even the whitish-bellied Cuban phcebe. In extreme cases the 

 tail feathers have no rufous edging at all, and the belly is pure 

 white. But we have already seen, in the Cuban and Bahaman 

 bird, th?t the belly fades away from the 3-ellow that is found in 

 the Jamaican, through every shade, till it is sometimes white ; 

 and we have likewise observed the reduction of the rufous to a 

 mere edging of the rectrices ; thence into antillarum is but a 

 step. Some specimens of antillarum have the inner webs mar- 

 gined with rufous part way down ; and the difference in this 

 respect between these and some Cuban phcebe is not so great as 

 may be found among different individuals of either of the other 

 varieties. These examples of antillarum also show the most 

 yellowish on the belly, this often exceeding the amount exhibited 

 by Cuban or Bahaman skins. In the purest antillarum, however, 

 the rufous is usually restricted to a mere trace at the end of the 

 inner webs, and it maj r disappear altogether. 



I could easily and plausibly describe antillarum as a species, but 

 1872.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I am confident that my mode of treating it is a better way. In 

 fact, my view is simply an amplification of the judicious query 

 that Dr. Bryant inserted after the word "species" in the first 

 sentence of his original description. 



Avoiding all qualified expressions, and ignoring details, I may 

 finally recapitulate and discriminate the three insular varieties of 

 stolidus, thus: 



Yar. stolidus : Belly yellow, tail feathers edged with rufous. 



Yar. phoebe : Belly white, tail feathers edged with rufous. 



Yar. antillarum : Belby white, tail feathers not edged with rufous. 



Twenty-nine specimens examined of the several varieties, from 

 the localities above quoted. 



9. Mtiaechus tristis. 



Myiobius tristis, Gosse, B. Jam. 167, pi. 41. 



Blacicus tristis, Cab., J. f. 0. 1855, 480, et auct. 



Pyrocephalus {Blacicus) tristis, Gray, Hand-List. i. 363, No. 5536. 



Minimus inter minores, rostro lato depresso ; olivaceo-fuscus, 

 pileo nigrescente, gula e cinerea albida, ventre flavo, remigibus 

 rectricibusque minime rufo marginatis, illis extus et intus, his 

 extus nee intus. Long. tot. 5.50-G.00, alas et caudae 2.75-3.00, 

 rostri .60, tarsi .68, rostri lat. ad nares .33. 



Hab Jamaica. Mus. S. I. and G. N. L. 



Obs. The smallest species of the group, and the one showing 

 the least rufous on the tail and primaries of any of the smaller 

 ones, unless it be antillarum. There is no rufous at all on the 

 inner webs of the rectrices, but close inspection will show rufous 

 traces on the outer webs of these feathers near the base, at any 

 rate ; rufous edging is evident on the outer webs of the primaries, 

 and a very pale cast of rufous is more conspicuous on their inner 

 webs. The upper wing and tail coverts show the same thing, but 

 the edging of the inner secondaries is whitish. 



This species does not particularly resemble any of the foregoing. 

 It shows perhaps the broadest and flattest bill of any; the width 

 of the bill, at or just behind the nostrils, exceeding half its length. 

 In this respect it departs notably from 31. stolidus, its geographical 

 associate, and repeats laiorencii and nigriceps. Its affinities are 

 really closest with the last named. Although nigriceps and tristis 

 do not sufficiently resemble each other to render special com- 

 parison necessary, they are still evident geographical representa- 

 tives tristis holding the same relation to the insular forms with 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



which it is associated, that nigriceps does to the continental form 

 lawrencii, which it replaces in Northern South America. 



Of the live following birds, referred by their respective authors 

 and others to the genus Myiarchus, I have no information : 



1. Myiarchus fasciatus, Landb., Leybold, J. f. O. 1865, 402. Mendoza. 

 S. Myiarchus cantans, Pelz., op. cit. 182. Brazil. Probably=^ra?i- 

 nulus. 



3. Myiarchus tricolor, Natt., Pelz. Orn. Bras. ii. 182. Brazil. Pro- 



baMy=nigriceps. 



4. Myiarchus gracilirostris, Pelz., op. cit. 183. Brazil. Probably= 



nigriceps. 



5. Tyrannus tuberculifer, D'Orb. and Lafr., Syn. No. G. D'Orb., Voy. 



Ois. p. 307, pi. 32, f. 1, 2. Bolivia. MyioMus tuberculifer, Gray. 

 Myiarchus tuberculifer, Cab. Tyrannula tuberculifer, Bp. Pyro. 

 cephalus {Onychopterus) tuberculifer, Gray, H.-L. No. 5523. An 

 Myiarchinus verusf Tbe description indicates a bird of the 

 Myiarchus pattern of coloration, and D'Orbigny says that it is 

 allied to M. ferox. 



1872.] 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CATALOGUE AND SYNONYMY OF THE RECENT SPECIES OF THE 



FAMILY LUCINIDJE. 



BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Order LUCINACEA, H. & A. Adams. 



Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 4G6. 1857. 



Family LUCINIDJE, H. & A. Adams. 

 Genera, ii. 460. 1857. 



Genus LITCINA, Bruguiere. 

 Encyc. Metli. t. 284. 1792. 



1. L. argentea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 6. 1850. 



Moluccas. 



2. L. artemidis, Carpenter, Zool. Proc. 201. 1856. 



Acapulco. 



3. L. bicornis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 8. 1S50. 



Ph ilipjnnes. 



4. L. borealis, Linn. Syst. Nat. Edit, xii., 1134. 1767. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 13. 1850. 

 Tellina radula, Mont. Test. Brit. 68. 1803. 

 Lucina alba, Turton, Dith. Brit. 114, t. 7, f. 6, 7. 1822. 

 Venus spuria, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. xiii. Ed. 3284. 1790. 

 Venus circinnata, Brocchi, Coq. Foss. Sub-app. ii. 552, t. 



14, f. 6. 

 Lucina lactea, Macgillivray. Moll. Aberd. 255. 1843. 

 Lucina leucoma, Macgillivray. Moll. Aberd. 256. 1843. 



Northern Europe. 



5. L. Californica, Conrad, Jour. Philad. Acad. vii. 255, t. 20, f. 



1. 1837. 

 L. annulala, Reeve, Icon. sp. 17. 1850. 



California. 



6. L. concentrica, Ad. & Ang. Zool. Proc. 426, t. 37, f. 19. 1863. 



South Australia. 



7. L. columbella, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 543. 1818. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 30. 1850. 

 L. Adansoni, Orb. Moll. Isl. Canaries, 107, t. 8, f. 26-28. 

 1839. 



Canary and Cape Verde Ls. Senegal. 



[.July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



8. L. carnosa, Dunker, Novit. Conch, t. 26, f. 4-6. 18G5. 



Port Natal. 



9. L. cristata, Recluz. Mag. Zool. 270, 1842, t. GO. 1843. 



Campeche. 



10. L. Candeana, Orb. Moll. Cuba, ii. 299, t. 27, f. 43-45. 



Cuba. 



11. L. cryptella, Orb. Voy. Am. Merid. 587, t. 84, f. 18-20. 



Pernambuco. 



12. L. dentifera, Jonas. Philippi Neue Conch, ii. 206, Lucina, 



t. 1, f. 3. Reeve, Icon. sp. 10. 1850. 



Red Sea. 



13. L. dunkeri, Menke, Zeit. Mai. 41. 1845. 



Northwest Africa. 



14. L. fenestrata, Hinds. Voy. Sulphur, 66, t. 19, f. 2. 1844. 



Monte Christi. 



15. L. filosa, Stimpson, Shells, ]S T . Engl. 17. 1851. Gould, 



Invert. Mass. Ed. 2. f. 404. 1870. 

 L. radula, Gould (not of Mont.), ib. Edit. 1, 69. 1841. 



New England. 



16. L. gemma, Reeve, Icon. sp. 64. 1850. 



Philippiines. 



17. L. gibbia, Desh. Guerin's Mag. t. 107. 1844. 



Sumatra. 



18 L. jamaicensis, Chemn. Conch. Cab. vii. 24, t. 38, f. 408,409. 



1784. Reeve, Icon. sp. 7. 1850. 



L.funiculata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 40. 1850. 



West Indies. 



19. L. lactea, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 225. 1855. 



Australia, Neiv Zealand. 



20. L. Mazatlanica, Carp. Mazat. Cat. 99. 1857. 



Panama, Mazatlan. 



21. L. Pennsylvania, Linn. Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1134. 1767. 



Reeve, Icon. sp. 29. 1850. 

 L. aurantia, Desh. Anim. s. Vert. vi. 236. 1835. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 31. 1850. 

 L. speciosa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 32. 1850. (Bed Sea, Err. Loc.) 

 L. trisinuata, Orb. Moll. Cuba, ii. 300, t. 27, f. 46-49. 1853. 

 L. virgo, Reeve, Icon. sp. 28. 1850. 



West Indies. 



22. L. Pisidium, Dunker, Mai. Blatt, 227. 1860. 



Japan. 



1872.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



23. L. pisum, Reeve, (not Phil.) Incon. sp. 66. 1850. 



Singapore, Port Essington. 



24. L. Portesiana, Orb. Voy. Ainer. Merid. 586, t. 84, f. 10, 11. 



Bio Janeiro. 



25. L. pusilla, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 282. 



North Carolina. 



26. L. pectinata, Carp. Mazat. Cat. 100. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 

 21. L. prolongata, Carp. Mazat. Cat. 100. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



28. L. Semperiana, Issel. Mai. Mar. Ross. 82. 1870. 



Red Sea. 



29. L. simplex, Reeve, Icon. sp. 11. 1850. ' 



North Australia. 



30. L. sulcata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 20. 1850. 



Hab. ? 



31. L. tenuisculpta, Carp. Philad. Proc. 57. 1865. 



Mazatlan, California. 



32. L. UNDATA, Carp. Zool. Proc. 279. 1865. 



Gulf of California. 



33. L. vitrea, Desk. Guerhi's, Mag. t. 106. 1844. 



Sumatra. 



34. L. VooRiiffiVEi, Desk. Journ. de Conck. 2d ser. ii. 106, t. 11, 



f. 1. 1857. 

 L. mirabilis, Dunker, Novit. 77 t. 26, f. 7-9. 1865. 



Mozambique. 



Subgenus Here, Gabb. 

 Pal. Calif, ii. 28, 100. 18G9. 



35. L. excavata, Carp. Mazat. Cat. 98, 1857. 



Panama, Mazatlan. 



36. L. lingualis, Carp. Ann. Mag. N. Hist. 3d ser. xiii. 313. 



1864. 



Cape St. Lucas. 



Subgenus Woodia, Desbayes. 

 Anim. s. Vert. bass. Paris, 1, 790. 



37. L. digitaria, Linn. Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1120. 1767. 



L. digitalis, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 544. 1818. Reeve, 

 Icon. sp. 65. 1850. 



Mediterranean. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Subgenus Cyclas, Klein. 

 (notBrug.) Meth. Ostracol. 129. 1753. 



38. L. dentata, Wood. Gen. Conch. 195, t. 46, f. 7. 1817. 



L. strigilla, Stimpson, shells, N. E. 17. 1851. 



L. Americana, C.B. Ad. Contrib. Conch. 243. 1852. 



L. Chemnitzii, Phil. Zeit. Mai. 1848. 



L. dioaricata, Lam. (not Linn.) Anim. s. Vert. v. 541. 1818. 



L. divaricata, (part) Chemn. Conch. Cab. vi. 134, t. 13, f. 



129. 1782. 

 L. quadrisulcata, Orb. Toy. Amer. Merid. 584. Moll. Cuba, 



ii. 294, t. 27, f. 34, 36. 

 L. Lamar ckii, Dunker, Weinkauff, Journ. Conch, x. 315. 



1862. 

 L. eburnea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 49. 1850. 

 L.pilula, C. B. Ad. Contrib. Conch. 244. 1852. 

 L. Sechellensis, Orb. Voy. Am. Merid. 384. 

 L. Cumingii, Ad. and Ang. Zool. Proc. 426, t. 37, f. 20. 



1863. 

 L. serrata, Orb. Voy. Am. Merid. 384. Moll. Cuba, ii. 295, 



t. 27, f. 37, 39. 1853. 

 L. ornata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 48. 1850. 

 L. ornatissima, Orb. Toy. Am. Merid. 384. 

 New England to Brazil, W. Coast N. and S. America, E. Coast 

 of Asia, Seychelles, Isl. Bourbon, Australia. 1 



39. L. divaricata, Linn, (not of Lam. etc.) Syst. Nat. Ed. xii. 



1120. 1767. 



L. digitaria, Poli (not Linn.) Test. Utr. Sicil. t. 15, f. 25. 

 1791. 



1 It is very curious to observe that most of the above distinguished authors, 

 finding that the West Indian divaricata of Lamarck, Gmelin, and Chemnitz 

 is distinct from the European divaricata of Linn., have each immediately 

 rechristened the former without troubling themselves to ascertain whether 

 any one else had previously made the same discovery. To this carelessness, 

 and to the insane desire to describe species, are to be ascribed the terrors of 

 the science to the novitiate, who in nine cases out of ten is frightened at 

 the very threshold by an heterogeneous mass of a hundred thousand names, 

 representing probably not more than one-fifth that number of species. Long 

 and familiarly known to Conchologists as this species is, they have per- 

 mitted nearly all of the above synonyms to stand as distinct species. The 

 geographical range is great, but well established by numerous authorities. 

 1872.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Cardium discors, Mont. Test. Brit. 37. 1803. 



L. undularia, S. Wood. Crag. Foss. 844. 



L. commutata, Phil. Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. 32, t. 3, f. 15 



183G. 

 L. arcuata, Mont. Test. Brit. 85, t. 3, f. 2. 1803. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 61. 1850. 



Europe. 



40. L. gibba, Gray, Ann. Philos. 136. 1825. Reeve, Icon. sp. 54. 



1850. 

 L. spheeroides, Conrad, Join*. Phil. Acad. vi. 262, t. 9, f. 



10. 1831. 

 L. divaricata (part.), Chemn. Conch. Cab. vi. t. 13, f. 130. 



1*782. 



Senegal. 

 Subgenus Codakia, Scopoli. 

 Introd. Hist. Nat. 1777. 

 Lentillaria, Schum. Essai jNov. Syst. 147. 1817. 



41. L. Antillarum, Reeve, Icon. sp. 37. 1850. 



West Indies. 



42. L. bella, Conrad, Jour. Acad. Phil. vii. 254, 1. 19, f. 11. 1837. 



L. fibula, Reeve, Icon. sp. 4. 1850. 

 L. munda, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 225. 1855. 

 L. ramulosa, Gould, Bost. Proc. iii. 276. 1850. Moll. U. S. 

 Expl. Exped. 415, f. 523. 1852. 



California, Sandwich Isles, Australia? 



43. L. cancellaris, Phil. Zeit. Mai. 21. 1846. 



Mazatlan. 



44. L. imbricatula, C. B. Adams, Bost. Proc. ii. 9. 1845. 



L. occidentalis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 38. 1850. 

 L. pecten, Reeve (not Lam.), Icon. sp. 34. 1850. 

 L. pectinata, C. B. Adams, Contrib. Conch. 243. 1852. 

 L. pectinella, C. B. Adams, Contrib. Conch. 244. 1852. 



West Indies. 



45. L. interrupta, Lam. (Cytherea), Anim. s. Vert. v. 574. 1818. 



Reeve, Icon. sp. 5. 1850. 



Fiji, Torres Straits. 



46. L. lintea, Conrad, (MSS. ?) 



Tampa Bay. 



47. L. minuta, Desh. Isl. Reun. 20, t. 3, f. 4-7. 1853. 



Isl. Bourbon. 

 [July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



48. L. nassula, Conr. Proc. Philad. Acad. 24. 1846. 



Tampa Bay, Flu. 



49. L. obliqua, Reeve, Icon. sp. 42. 1850. 



Chusan. 



50. L. parvula, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 36. 1861. 



Bonin I. Loo Choo, Hakodadi, Australia. 



51. L. punctata, Linn. Syst. Nat. Ed. xii. 1134. 1767. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 2. 1850. 



Mazatlan, Panama. 



52. L. reticulata, Poli {Tellina), Test. Utr. Sicil. 1, t. 20, f. 14. 



1791. 

 L.pecten, Lam. (not Linn.) Anim. s. Yert. v. 543. 1818. 



Pteeve, Icon. sp. 38. 1850. 

 L. squamosa, Desh. Expl. Sci. Mor. 95. 



Mediterranean, W. Coast Africa. 



53. L. Reevei, Desh. Conch. Ins. Reun. 19, t. 3, f. 8, 9. 1863. 



Isle Bourbon. 



54. L. rugifera, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 68. 1835. Reeve, Icon. sp. 1. 



1850. 



Australia. 



55. L. scobinata, Recluz, Journ. de Conch. III. 252, t. 10, f. 6. 



1852. 



Guadaloupe. 



56. L. tigerina, Linn, Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1133. 1T67. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 3. 1850. 

 L. exasperata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 4. 1850. 

 L. costata, Orb. Moll. Cuba. ii. 296, t. 27, f. 40, 42. 1853. 

 So. Coast U. S., West Indies, Brazil, Amboyna 

 (Rumph.), Nicobar Is. (Chernn.) 



Subgenus Miltha, H. & A. Ad. 

 Genera, ii. 466. 1857. 



57. L. Childreni, Gray, Zool. Jour. i. 221. 1825. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 12. 1850. 



Brazil. 

 Genus MYR.TEA, Turton. 

 Couch, dith. 133. 1822. 



Cyrachsea, Leach. Gray, Ann. Mag. 1ST. H. xx. 272. 1847. 



1. M. circinnata, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. ser. iii., ix. 226. 



1862. 



Japan. 



1872.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



2. M. decussata, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. ser. iii., ix. 226. 



1862. 



Japan. 



3. M. delicatula, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. ser. iii., ix. 226. 



1862. 



Japan. 



4. M. fabula, Reeve, Icon. Lncina, sp. 69. 1850. 



Philippines. 



5. M. fimbriatula, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. ser. iii., ix. 225. 



1862. 



Japan. 



6. M. gibba, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. ser. iii., ix. 225. 1862. 



Japan. 



7. M. lamellata, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. ser. iii., ix. 226. 



1862. 



Japan. 



8. M. Layardi, A. Adams, Zool. Proc 225. 1855. 



Ceylon. 



9. M. muricata, Chemnitz (Tellina), Conch. Cab. xi. t. 199, f. 



1945-6. 1799. 

 L. ochracea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 44. 1850. 

 L. scabra, Lam. Anim. s. Yert. v. 542. 1818. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 45. 1850. 

 L. Nuttallii, Conrad, Jour. A. N. S. Philad. vii. 255, t. 20, 



f. 2. 1837. 



Tumbez, Peru, to California. 



10. Myrtea obesula, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. 3d ser. ix. 226. 



1862. 



Japan. 



11. Myrtea plicatula, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. 3d ser. ix. 



226. 1862. 



Japan. 



12. Myrtea reticulata, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. N. H. 3d ser. ix. 



225. 1862. 



Japan. 

 L8. Myrtea seminula, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 36. 1861. 



Hong Kong. 

 14. M. spinifera, Mont. ( Venus), Test. Brit. 577, 1. 17, f. 1. 1803: 

 Reeve, Icon. Lucina sp. 39. 1850. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Lucina Hiatelloides, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. 32. 



1836. 

 Astarte ornata, Goldfiiss, Petr. Germ. ii. 195, t. 135, f. 9. 



Europe. 



15. M. Strangei, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 225. 1855. 



Moreton Bay. 



16. M. venusta, Phil. Abbild. und Beschreib. ii. 206, Lucina, t. 



1, f. 2. Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 15. 1850. 



Bay of Manilla. 



Genus PHILIS, Fischer. 

 Jour. Conch, ix. 345. 1861. 



P. Cumingii, Fischer, Jour. Conch, ix. 346. 1861. 



Moluccas. 



Genus LORIPES, Poli. 

 Test. Utr. Sicil. i. 31. 1791. 



Anodontia, Link, Samml. iii. 156. 1807. 



1. L. Anatelloides, Reeve, Icon. sp. 19. 1850. 



West Indies. 



2. L. assimilis, Angas, Zool. Proc. 910, t. 44, f. 8. 1867. 



New South Wales. 



3. L. barbata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 15. 1850. 



Hob. ? 



4. L. bullata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 35. 1850. 



Hab.f 



5. L. edentula, Linn, Mus. Ulric, 14. Reeve, Icon. sp. 9. 1850. 



L. chrysostoma, Phil. Zeit. Malak. ii. 181. 1845. 



West Indies. 



6. L. edentuloldes, Yerrill, Am. Jour. Sci. xlix. 226. 1870. 



Gulf of California. 



7. L. Floridana, Conrad, Am. Jour. Sci. 1st ser. xxiii. 344. 



1833. 



Pensacola, Fla. 



8. L. globularis, Lam. Anim. sansVert. v. 544. 1818. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 53. 1850. 

 L. ovulum, Reeve, Icon. sp. 58. 1850. 

 L. tumida, Reeve, Icon. sp. 52. 1852. 



New Caledonia. 



9. L. globulosa, A. Adams. 

 1872.] 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



10. L. Guaraniana, Orb. Toy. Araer. Merid. 586, t. 84, f. 10, 11. 



Rio Janeiro. 



11. L. icterica, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 60. 1850. Angas, Zool. 



Proc. 651. 1865. 



So. Australia. 



12. L. lactea, Linn, Syst. Nat. 1119. 1767. 



L. gibbosa (not Gniel.), Costa, Cat. 21. 1829. 

 L. leucoma, Turton, Reeve, Icon. sp. 41. 1850. 

 Amphidesma lucinalis, Lain. Anim. sans Vert. v. 491 . 1818. 

 L.fragilis, Phil. Zeit. Mai. ii. 181, 1845; Moll. Sicil. ii. 25, 

 1844. 

 Yar. L. Desmarestii, Payr. Cat. Moll. Corse. 44, 1. 1, f. 19, 20. 

 1826. 



England, Canary Islands, Mediterranean. 



13. L. malum, Reeve, Icon. sp. 26. 1850. 



Philippines. 



14. L. ovum, Reeve, Icon. sp. 21. 1850. 



Philijijrines. 



15. L. Patagonica, Orb. Voy. Am. Merid. 587, t. 84, f. 16, 77. 



Patagonia. 



16. L. Philippiana, Reeve, Icon. sp. 23. 1850. 



L. edentula, Philippi (not Lamarck). 



Hab. ? 



17. L. Philippinarum, Hanley, sp. Shells. 1840. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 18. 1850. 

 L. corrugata, Desh. Guerin's Mag. t. 82. 1843. 



Singapore, Bay of Manilla. 



18. L. pila, Reeve, Icon. sp. 24, 1850. 



Hab. ? 



19. L. plicifera, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 225. 1855. 



Borneo, Loo Choo. 



20. L. rotata, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 32. 1861. 



Loo Choo. 



21. L. vesicula, Gould, Bost. Proc. iii. 256. 1850. Expl. Exped. 



414, f. 525. 



Tonga Islands. 



22. L. Yilardebojena, Orb. Voy. Am. Merid. 587, t. 84, f. 14, 15. 



La Plata. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Genus CRYPTODON, Turton. 

 Brit. Bivalves, 181. 1822. 



Thyafira, Leach, Jeffreys, Mai. et Conch. Mag. ii. 42. 1829. 

 Axinus, J. Sowerb} r , Mineral Conch, t. 314. 1823. 

 Ptychina, Phil. Moll. Sicil. 15. 1836. 

 Clausina, Jeffreys, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. 18. 1847. 



1. C. Croulinensis, Jeffreys, Ann. & Mag. N. H. xx. 19. 1847. 



Ibid. 3dser.ii. 122,t.5,f.2. 



Skye and Shetland Islands. 



2. C. ferruginosus, Forbes & Hanley, Brit. Moll. ii. 60, t. 34, f. 1. 



1853. Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 63. 1850. 

 Kellia abyssicola, Forbes, J^gean Invert. 192. 



Mediterranean to England. 



3. C flexuosus, Mont. Test. Brit. 72 (Tellina). 1803. Reeve, 



Icon. Lucina, sp. 62. 1850. 

 Axinus angulatus, Nyst. (not Sowb.) Coq. Foss. Belg. 141, t. 



6, f. 13. 

 Venus sinuosa, Donov. Brit. Shells ii. t. 42, f. 2. 

 Lucina sinuata, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 543. 1818. 

 Cryptodon bisinuatus, S. Wood, Crag. Moll. 

 Ptychina biplicata, Phil. Moll. Sicil. i. 15, t. 2, f. 4. 1 836. 



European Seas. 



4. C. Gouldi, Phil. Zeit. fur Malak. 74. 1845. Gould, Invert. 



Mass. 2d edit. 100, f. 406. 1870. 

 Lucina jlexuosa, Gould (not Mont.) Invert. Mass. 1st edit. 



71,f.52. 1841. 

 Thyasira Gouldi, Stimpson, Shells. N. Eng. 17. 1851. 



Massachusetts Connecticut. 



5. C. Japonicus, Adams, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. ix. 227. 1862. 



N. Japan.. 



6. C. Manchuric us, Adams, Ibid. 227. 1862. 



Manchuria. 



N. Japan.. 



N. Japan. 

 9. C. polygonus, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 35. 1861. 



Cape Good Hope 



7. C. oblongus, Adams, Ibid. 227. 1862. 



8. C. plicatus, Adams, Ibid. 227. 1862. 



1872.] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



10. C. Sarsii, Loven, Index Moll. Scand. 1846. Reeve, Icon. 



Lucina, sp. 52. 1850. 



Norway Siveden. 



11. C. serricatus, Carpenter, Philacl. Proc. 57. 1865. 



Sts. of Fuca to Catalina Isld. 



12. C. suborbicularis, Adams, Ann. and Mag. N. H. ix. 227. 



1862. 



North Japan. 



13. C. subquadratus, Adams, Ibid. 227. 1862. 



North Japan. 



14. C. subradiatus, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 35. 1861. 



Simon's Bay. 



15. C. sulcatus, Adams, Ann. and Mag. N. H. ix. 227. 1862. 



Manchuria. 



16. C. transversus {Lucina), Bronn. Weinkauff Conchyl. 168. 



1867. 



Mediterranean. 



Genus GAFRAEITJM, Bolten. 

 Icon. Museum Bolten. 1798. 



Fimbria, Miihlf. Entwurf. 52. 1811. 

 Idothea, Schum. Essai Nov. Gen. 160. 1817. 

 Corbis, Cuvier, Regne Anim. ii. 408. 1817. 



1. G. cffiLATUM, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 62. 1853. 



Isld. Luzon. 



2. G. elegans, Deskayes. 



3. G. fimbriatum, Linn. (Venus.) Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1113. 



1767. Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 57. 



Fiji Islands, etc. 



4. G. scitulum, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 70. 1853. 



Puerto Gallaro. 



5. G. Sowerbyi, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 45. 1841. Conch. Syst. t. 



58. 



Genus UNGULINA, Daudin. 

 Bosc. Hist. Coq. iii. 7G. 1802. 



1. IT. alba, Rang. Hist. Moll. t. 44, f. 1, 2. 1802. 



Senegal. 



2. U. oblonga, Bosc. Hist. Coq. iii. t. 20, f. 1, 2. 1802. 



U. rubra, Roissy, Buff. de. Sonn. Moll. t. vi. f. 20, f. 1, 2. 

 H. &. A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 114, f. 4, 4a. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 93 



U. transversa, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 487. 1818 



Western Coast of Africa. 



Genus SCACCHIA, Philippi. 

 Moll. Sicil. ii. 27. 1844. 



1. S. elliptica, Scacchi (Tellina). Osserv. Zool. ii. 14. 1833. 



H. &. A. Adams, Genera iii. t. 814, f. 5. 5a. 



Mediterranean. 



2. S. ovata, Phil. Enum. Moll. Sicil. ii.lt. t. 14, f. 9. 1844. 



Kellia cycladia? Wood, Crag. Moll, ii. 122, t. 11. f. 4. 



Mediterranean. 



Genus MYSIA, Leach. 

 Menke, Synopsis, Method. Edit. 2. 112. 1830 



Diplodonta, Bronn, Ital. Tertiiir geb. 9. 1831. 

 Sphserella, Conrad, Tert. Foss. 17. 1838. 



1. M. abbreviata, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 32. 1861. 



Hong Kong. 



2. M. alata, Adams & Reeve {Cyrenoida) Yoy. Sam. 80, t. 24, 



f. 12. 1850. 



Corea. 



3. M. Americana, Morelet. 



4. M. Brasiliensis, Mittre, Jour, de Conch. 1. 240. 1850. H. 



& A. Adams, Genera iii. t. 114, f. 6. 



Bio Janeiro. 



5. M. bullata, Dunker, Novitates Conch. 76, t. 26 f. 1-3. 1865. 



Ceylon. 



6. M. calculus, Reeve, Icon. Lucina sp. 68, 1850. 



Gulf of Nicoya. 



7. M. Coreensis, Adams & Reeve (Cyrenoida). Yoy. Sam. 



80, t. 22, f. 14. 1850 

 M. obliqua, Gould (not Philippi) Otia. Conch. 171. 



Loo Choo, Corea. 



8. M. Cumingii, Sowerby. 



9. M. dolabrata, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 32, 1861. 



Cape Good Hope. 



10. M. fiqlina, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 32. 1861. 



Japan. 



11. M. globulosa, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 226. 1855. 



Moreton Bay. 

 1872.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



12. M. Gouldi, Tryon. 



M. obliqua, Gould (not Phil), Bost. Proc. viii. 32. 1861. 



Loo Choo. 



13. M. granulosa, Dunker, Zeit. Mai. iii. 1853. 



Peurto Cabello. 



14. M. Gruneri, Dunker, Ind. Tains. 55. 1853. 



Guinea. 



15. M. Janeirensis, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 43. 1850. 



Rio Janeiro. 



16. M. inconspicua, Phil. 



IT. M. Indica, Desk. 



18. M. LEUCOPHiEOTA, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 59. 1850. 



Hob. t 



19. M. lucintEFORMIS, Yal. Yoy. Hoinbr. et Jacq. 116, t. 3, f. 3. 



1856. 



Philippines. 



20. M. Moretonensis, Desh. 



21. M. Novo-Zelandica, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 14. 1850. 



New Zealand. 



22. M. obliqua, Phil. Zeit. Mai. 20. 1846. 



Mazatlan. 



23. M. oblonga, Sowb. 



24. M. Pacifica, Fischer, Jour, de Conch, viii. 316, t. 13, f 3. 



1860. 



Pacific Ocean. 



25. M. Philippii, Gay, Hist. Nat. Chili, vii. 354, t. 8, f. 5. 1854. 



Chili. 



26. M. Philippinarum, Sowb. 

 2T. M. pisiformis, Deshayes. 



28. M. punctata, Say (Amphidesma), Jour. Phil. Acad. ii. 308. 



1822. 



Southern Coast United States. 



29. M. rotundata, Montagu (Tellina), Test. Brit. 71, t. 2, f. 3. 



1803. 

 Lucina rotundata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 38, 1S50. 1803. 

 Venus lupinus, Brocchi, Cat. Foss. Subapp. 

 Diplodonta dilatata, Phil. Moll. Sicil. i. 31, t. 4, f. 7. 1836. 

 Diplodonta Barleei, Jeff'rej's, Ann. Nat. Hist., Jan. 1858. 

 Glaucomene Montaguana, Leach. Synopsis, 313. 



Southern Coast of England to Mediterranean 

 Sea, Canary Is. 



-[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 95 



30. M. Savignyi, Vaillant, Jour. Conch, xiii. 124 1865. 



Bed Sea. 



31. M. semiaspera, Phil. Abbild. Tellina 25. 1846. 



Lucina orbella, Gould, Bost. Proc. iv. 90. 1851. 

 Lucina coelata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 21. 1850. 

 Yar. discrepans, Carp. Mazat. Cat. 103. 185*7. 



Guayaquil, Mazatlan to San Diego, Col. 



32. M. semireticulata, Orb. Moll. Cuba, 41. 



Cuba to Patagonia. 



33. M. Senegalense, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, Errata. 1850. 



M. Adansoni, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 51. 1850. 



Senegal. 



34. M. sPHiERicuLA, Deshayes. 



Australia. 



35. M. subglobosa, C. B. Adams. 



36. M. subquadrata, Carp. Zool. Proc. 230. 1855. 



Mazatlan to Panama. 



31. M. subrugosa, Dunker, Zeit. Mai. 183. 1848. Novitates 



Conch. 15, t. 4, f. 10-12. 



Hob. ? 



38. M. trtgonula, Brown, Ital. Tert. Geb. 96 t. 3, f. 2. 



Diplodonta apicalis, Phil. Enura. Moll. Sicil. i. 31, t. 4, f. 6. 



1836. 

 Lucina astartea, Nyst. Coq. Foss. Belg. 121, t. 6, f. 4. 



Mediterranean Canary Islands. 



39. M. Yenezuelensis, Dunker, Zeit far Malak. 184. 1848. No- 



vitates Conch. 15, t. 4, f. 7, 8, 9. 



Porto Gabello. 



Subgenus Felania, Recluz. 

 Jour, de Conch, ii. 60. 1851. 



40. M. Adamsi, Angas, Zool. Proc. 910, t. 44, f. 9. 1867. 



Port Jackson. 



41. M. Candeana, Orb. Moll. Cuba, ii. 299, t. 27, f. 43, 45. 



Cuba. 



42. M. cornea, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 25. 1850. 



M. sericata, Reeve, ibid. sp. 55. 1850. 



Gulf of Nicoya, Mazatlan. 



43. M. diaphana, Gmel., Syst. Nat. edit. 13, vi. 3292. 1790. 



Le Felan, Adanson, Moll. Senegal, 227, t. 16, f. 8. 1757. 



Senegal. 



1872.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



44. M. friabilis, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 51. 1850. 



Hab. ? 



45. M. Jacksoniensis, Angas, Zool. Proc. 910, t. 44, f. 10. 1861. 



Port Jackson. 



46. M. nitens, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 51. 1850. 



Ins. Muerte. 

 41. M. rosea, Recluz, Jour, de Conch, ii. 12 t. 2, f. 10-12. 1851. 



W. Coast Africa. 



48. M. tellinoides, Reeve, Icon. Lucina, sp. 56. 1850. 



West Indies. 



49. M. usta, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 32. 1862. 



Hakodadi Bay. 



Unidentified Luctnid^e. 



? L. Antarctica, Phil. Mai. Blatt. i. 166. 1851. 



Sis. Magellan. 



L. lenticula, Gould, Bost. Proc. iii. 252. 1850. 



Patagonia. 

 L. granulosa, C. B. Ad. Bost. Proc. ii. 9. 1845. 



West Indies. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



SHELLS OF HERKIMER AND ADJACENT COUNTIES IN THE STATE OF 



NEW YORK. 



BY JAMES LEWIS. 



At various times I have prepared catalogues and other papers 

 relating to the shells of this region. The latest catalogues of 

 shell-bearing mollusca of Herkimer and adjacent counties was 

 printed in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 in 1860. Since that date several species have been found which 

 previously had not been noticed. Corrections have also been 

 made of species wrongly named. 



A few rare land-shells have been detected in obscure retreats, 

 where the progress of civilization has not reached them. For con- 

 venience of reference I arrange the species alphabetically, without 

 following the most recent classification, my object being geogra- 

 phical distribution rather than classification. 



Amnicola Cincinnatiensis ? Anthony. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. In the rivers, this shell some- 

 times attains remarkable size. Specimens submitted to Mr. Tryon 

 were pronounced to be Cincinnatiensis or new. I do not feel dis- 

 posed to quote this as a new species on account of its size, for the 

 reason that other shells not recognized as new species sometimes 

 attain remarkable size in this region. 



A. lustrica, Say. 



Schuyler's Lake, Otsego County; Little Lakes, Herkimer 

 County ; Smith's Pond, Litchfield, Herkimer County ; Erie Canal. 



The shells found in Erie Canal are doubtlessly introduced. 

 Have been seen there only on one occasion (1869). 



A. pallida, Hald. 



Lakes, rivers, and canal. I can distinguish these shells from 

 those shells of Massachusetts called A. porata, Say, by Gould, 

 only by their color, due to locality. 



Ancylus fuscus, Adams. 



Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes, New York. 



Ancylus parallelus, Hald. 



Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes, New York. 

 1872.J 




98 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Ancylus tardus, Say. 



Mohawk River. Found under stones along the margin of the 

 stream at low water. I have found them only during the fall 

 months. None could be found in 1811. 



Anodonta edentula, Say. 



Mohawk River and Erie Canal ; also streams running south to 

 the Susquehanna River. 



Anodonta fluviatilis, Lea. 



In ponds and streams near Schuyler's Lake. 

 Anodonta imbecilis, Say. 



Erie Canal. Very scarce and small. 

 Anodonta lacustris, Lea. 



Schuyler's Lake, Little Lakes, Smith's Pond, and a small pond 

 at Herkimer. \ small variety occurs in a marshy creek on the 

 hills eight miles south of Mohawk. 



Anodonta Lewisii, Lea. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. During the last ten j'ears this 

 species has been very nearly exterminated in the canal, affected, no 

 doubt, by chemicals introduced in the armory sewage at Ilion. 



Anodonta subcylindracea, Lea. 



Erie Canal, Mohawk River, and ponds at Herkimer. Not 

 abundant. 

 Anodonta undulata. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. Scarce. 

 Bythinella obtusa, Lea. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. In the rivers this species some- 

 times grows very large; it is usually much larger here than spe- 

 cimens I have seen from other localities. 



Carychium exiguum, Say. 



On moist laud in the Yalley of the Mohawk. I have not found 

 it abundant elsewhere. 



Goniobasis livescens, Menke. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. The shells vary, exceedingly, 



under the influences of station. The shells are characterized 



,i 



here as elsewhere by a weak epidermis, easily worn off. The 

 species has, no doubt, been introduced from western waters by 

 way of the canal. It is extremely abundant on rocks and hard- 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



clay banks in the Mohawk Paver, preferring swift water. I have 

 no doubt a variety of this species furnished the type of Mr. Tryon's 

 Gon. Haldemani. 



Goniobasis virginica, Gmelin. 



Common enough in the canal at long intervals. Has no doubt 

 been introduced since 1856. Is said to abound in the Hudson 

 River, and in streams near Buffalo. Is very seldom found in the 

 Mohawk River. 



In 1871 I found specimens which attain nearly the size of adults 

 of this species, but which exhibit colors and forms somewhat 

 unlike it. They seem to blend the colors of Trypanosoma sub- 

 ulare and Goniobasis livescens, and approximate the form and 

 size of Gon. virginica. I am persuaded by the circumstances 

 attending them that they are hybrids, and probably derived from 

 Gon. virginica, and perhaps both the other two mollusca just 

 named. The supposed hybrids are not found apart from virginica. 

 Feeling unwilling to assume the responsibility of suggesting hy- 

 bridity in a case which others might have settled by proposing a 

 new species, I submitted specimens to Mr. Charles M. Wheatley 

 for his opinion. I feel privileged to say that Mr. Wheatley assents 

 to my view respecting the shells. 



Helix albolabris, Say. 



A common species. A variety with a tooth is found in the 

 town of Litchfield. A single reversed specimen was found near 

 Mohawk in June, 1811. 

 Helix alternata, Say. 



This is the most abundant Helix of this region. It does not 

 offer any notable varieties. 



Helix arborea, Say. 



Formerly somewhat abundant, but now extremely rare in the 

 valley of the Mohawk. 

 Helix chersina, Say. 



Damp grounds along the valley of the Mohawk. This species 

 is rare, and very few have been seen for many years. 

 Helix concava, Say. 



Somewhat abundant in damp ravines. 

 Helix dentifera, Binney. 



Found in ravines in the town of Litchfield (1871). Only a very 

 1872.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



few specimens have been found. Some of these have the reflected 

 margin of the aperture of a beautiful rose color. 



Helix electrina, Gould. 



Formerly abundant, but now quite scarce. 



Helix fallax, Say. 



Two specimens from Litchfield (18U), appear to belong to this 

 species. They differ essentially from the variety of tridentata 

 found here heretofore regarded as fallax. 

 Helix fuliginosa, Griffith. 



Abundant in some of the ravines in Litchfield. 



Helix hirsuta, Say. 



I have never found this species. Col. E. Jewett, of Utica, in- 

 forms me he had found it several years ago near New Hartford. 



Helix indentata, Say. 



Always rare. It has not been found for several years. 



Helix intertexta, Binney. 



Found in ravines and on hillsides shaded by poplars. It is not 

 a very abundant species, but may usually be obtained in the 

 months of July and August. 



Helix ligera, Say. 



I have found a single specimen only. Dr. "William Brown, of 

 Litchfield, has half a dozen specimens taken from under an old 

 fence on a hill in Litchfield. The shells are smaller than typical 

 ligera and the apex is less pointed. It may be placed between 

 typical ligera and demissa, and seems to identify these forms as 

 varieties of one type. 



Helix lineata, Say. 



A rare species. Scarcely twenty living specimens have been 

 found since 1854.' [Since the above was written, Dr. Brown has 

 presented numerous specimens found in Litchfield.] 



Helix inornata, Say. 



Common in ravines. Apparently more abundant than in former 

 3 r ears. 

 Helix minuscula, Binney. 



A rare species. Wet land in the Mohawk Valley. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Helix minutissima, Lea. 



A few specimens have been found in Litchfield by Dr. Brown 

 (1871). 

 Helix nitida, Mull. 



Usually found abundantly on wet ground, near streams, ponds, 

 and lakes. More common in the valley of the Mohawk. 



Helix palliata, Say. 



Not abundant. Occurs somewhat more plentifully in the Litch- 

 field ravines than elsewhere. 



Helix perspectiva, Say. 



Litchfield; very scarce. (1871.) 

 Helix pulchella, Meill. 



Common on damp soil in many localities. 

 Helix Sayii, Binney. 



Common in ravines, but not so abundant as to be found with- 

 out laborious search. 



Helix striatella, Anthony. 



Sometimes very numerous in the valley; usually not abundant 

 elsewhere. 



Helix tridentata, Say. 



A small variety. Common in ravines. 



Helix thyroides, Say. 



Seen only in the Mohawk Yalley. Col. Jewett, of Utica, finds 

 this species abundant and associated with albolabris by the side 

 of the railroad embankment, seven miles east of Utica. The few 

 specimens I have found occurred in an alder swamp west of the 

 Mohawk. 



Lymnaea catascopium, Say. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. I have seen a few shells, evi- 

 dently referable to this species, in a small lake in the south part 

 of Herkimer County. 

 Lymnaea columella, Say. 



Lakes. Not abundant. 



Lymnaea desidiosa, Say. 

 Common. 



Lymnaea elodes, Say. 



Stagnant water in various localities. 



1872.] 




102 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Lymnaea gracilis, Say. 



Schuyler's Lake. At times very abundant. Usually scarce. 

 Lymnaea humilis, Say. 



Less abundant than desidiosa. 

 Lymnaea pallida, Adams. 



Little lakes. Very scarce. 



Lymnaea stagnalis, Say. 



Traces of this species have been found in the lakes elsewhere 

 named. A single dried specimen (with the soft parts) was found 

 in the Erie Canal, spring of 1871. Probably introduced from 

 Cayuga Lake.? 



Lymnaea umbilicata, Adams. 



None have been seen for many years. All that have been found 

 inhabited a pool of stagnant water in a wood lot that has long 

 since been cleared, and the pool dried up. 



Margaritana marginata, Say. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River ; not abundant. 

 Margaritana rugosa, Barnes. 



More abundant than the preceding, in the same localities. 



Margaritana undulata, Say. 



Single specimens have been found in the Erie Canal and Mo- 

 hawk River. The species abounds in streams emptying into 

 Schuyler's Lake. 



Melantho decisus, Say. 



Inhabits Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes without any asso- 

 ciate species. Found also in the Erie Canal and Mohawk River 

 with the two species next named. A few reversed specimens have 

 been found. 



Melantho integer, Say. 



The opercle of the adult has the form of that of 31. ponderosus 

 Say. I am inclined to regard these shells as varieties of jjonde, 

 rosus. Reversed and malformed specimens occur sometimes in 

 considerable numbers in the Erie Canal. Largest shell found is 

 over two inches long. 



Melantho rufus, Haldenian. 



This species, as well as integer, has evidently been introduced 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



fiere, but at a more recent date. No shells of this species have 

 been found here earlier than 1855, since which time they have 

 gradually increased in size and numbers. The largest shell yet 

 found is 1.83 inches long. It is in the collection of Mr. Charles 

 M. Wheatley, of Phoenixville, Pa. 



Physa heterostropha, Say. 



Common in rivers and streams; also in stagnant water. Some 

 of the varieties simulate the forms of gyrina, ancillaria, and inte- 

 gra, but I do not think, from all I have seen, that either of those 

 species can be entered here. 



Physa hypnorum, Drap. 



A small variety. Not common. 



Planorbis armigerus, Say. 



Sometimes very abundant in stagnant water. It is not constant 

 in the stations where found. 



Planorbis bicarinatus, Say. 



Erie Canal, Mohawk River, Schuyler's Lake, Little Lakes, and 

 Smith's Pond. Shells found in Smith's Pond are very white, like 

 ivory. Those found in Little Lakes are small and pale, but not so 

 white as those of Smith's Pond. 



Planorbis campanulatus, Say. 



Lakes and ponds. The few found in Smith's Pond are white, 

 like bicarinatus in the same pond. 



Planorbis deflectus, Say. 



Lakes. Not abundant. 

 Planorbis exacutus, Say. 



Lakes. Not abundant. 

 Planorbis parvus, Say. 



Stagnant water. Sometimes (rarely) abundant. 

 Planorbis trivolvis, Say. 



Canal, rivers, lakes, and stagnant water. 

 Planorbis hirsutus, Say. 



Schuyler's Lake. Rare. 

 Pisidium abditum, Haldeman. 



I think P. variabiles Prime, may be included under this species 

 as a synonym. The shells occur in a great variety of stations. 



1872.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Pisidium aequilaterale, Prime. 



Ditches and Erie Canal. Sometimes plenty. 

 Pisidium compressum, Prime. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River ; also lakes and ponds. 

 Pisidium ventricosum, Prime. 



The shells of this region are between ventricosum and subrotun- 

 datum, Prime. I am inclined to believe subrotundatum is a small 

 variety of ventricosum. My local specimens were obtained from 

 a stagnant pool near Mohawk, and from Little Lakes. 



Pisidium virginicum, Bgt. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. 

 Pupa contracta, Say. 



Damp flat lands, Mohawk Valley. 

 Pupa pentodon, Say. 



Damp flat lands, Mohawk Valley. 



Somatogyrus subglobosus, Say. 



Erie Canal. Introduced since 1860. This species comes from 

 the west, and in a very few years has become numerically more 

 abundant than any other mollusc in the canal. 



Sphaerium croceum, Lewis. 



I described this species many years ago. Mr. Prime puts it in 

 the synonyms of one of his species (S. secure). Since the publi- 

 cation of Mr. Prime's papers I have had opportunity to study S. 

 croceum, and find it in very different circumstances from those 

 which determine the habits of S. secure, typical specimens of which 

 I have collected in Massachusetts. My shells are found usually 

 in coarse angular gravel anchored by a byssus. They are more 

 abundant in a small stream that connects the two " Little Lakes" 

 in the south part of this county than elsewhere. 



Sphaerium fabale, Prime. 



Small stream in the town of Litchfield, Herkimer County (head- 

 waters of the Unadilla River). Found in the fall of 1871. Brought 

 to notice by Dr. Litchfield. 



Sphaerium occidentale, Prime. 



Stagnant waters, subject to drying. Not unusually found alive 

 in the soil of dried stations. 



[July 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Sphserium rosaceum, Prime. 



This shell I proposed as " Cyclas errans," a number of years 

 ago. Mr. Prime puts it in his synonymy of S. rosaceum. It seems 

 to me, however, that the habits of this mollusc are more like those 

 of S. partumeium, Sa} r , which species is usually found in stagnant 

 water, while Mr. Prime's rosaceum is a river shell. My shells are 

 the most fragile of their class that I have seen. From my present 

 knowledge of species and their habits, I am induced now to reclaim 

 my species. I have found these shells usually adhering to the 

 trunks of the "dwarf button-ball" growing in a stagnant pool ; a 

 more solid variety sometimes occurs in ditches. 



Sphserium simile, Say. 

 Lakes. Abundant. 



Sphaeriuni solidulum, Prime. 



Mohawk River. Not plenty. 



Spkaerium striatinum, Lamarck. 



Mr. Say's description of Cyclas edentula, if read with the un- 

 derstanding that his idea of the anterior and posterior of bivalves 

 was the reverse of the present usage, will be found to accord to 

 the shells here referred to. This species occurs in the outlet of 

 Schuyler's Lake, in swift water among gravel, while S. simile 

 occurs in still water in mud in the same stream. A recent writer 

 supposes striatinum to be the young of simile. This is an error. 

 S. striatinum occurs as far east as the Connecticut River at Spring- 

 field, Massachusetts, and is found in many of the larger streams 

 in New York, Ohio, and States westward. Is very abundant in 

 the Erie Canal, less so in the Mohawk River. It has been found 

 in Oneida Lake. (F. E. Spinner.) 



Sphseriuni transversum, Say. 



Sometimes abundant in the canal. A few may be found in late 

 summer months in the Mohawk River. Evidently a western spe- 

 cies, introduced, though known since 1853 to inhabit the canal. 



Succinea aurea? Lea. 



A small, orange-colored species found sometimes in the month 

 of June around the " Little Lakes" may be aurea. The species, 

 has not been authoritatively determined. 



Succinea avara, Say. 



A large variety, sometimes 11-20 inch long, is found on the moist 

 muddy banks of the Mohawk River, sometimes very plenty, some- 



8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



times rare. Smaller shells abound along water-margins on the 

 hill regions south, at Little Lakes, and at Schuyler's Lake. Dr. 

 Brown finds it in Litchfield. 



Succinea obliqua, Say. 



Damp, shaded grounds along the Mohawk. This species is 

 sometimes found on vegetation and trees, several feet from the 

 ground. S. Tolfeniana, Lea, has similar habits, and has been found 

 on apple-trees or hill-sides near woods. 



Succinea ovalis, Gould. 



Margins of ditches, river banks, lake-shores, &c. Sometimes 

 very abundant. 



Succinea Totteniana, Lea. 



Inhabits ravines and hill-sides, wooded. Is nearly as large as 

 obliqua, and has similar arborial habits. 



Trypanosoma subulare, Lea. 



Erie Canal and Mohawk River. Prefers still water and a muddy 

 slope. Very abundant. 



Unio cariosus, Say. 



Mohawk River and Erie Canal. Scarce. 



"Unio complanatus, Lea. 



Canal, rivers, muddy streams, &c, but not in lakes. Our most 

 abundant species. 



Unio lutiolus, Lam. 



Mohawk River. Erie Canal, rarely. It is probably more abun- 

 dant in the river a few miles below Little Falls. 



Unio radiatus, Lam. 



Lakes. The only Unio found in Little Lakes and Schuyler's 

 Lake, though complanatus occurs in the outlet of Schuyler's Lake, 

 and in streams emptying into the lake. 



Unio Tappanianus, Lea. 



Mohawk River. Abundant only at times. Some cause not un- 

 derstood makes them scarce only in exceptional seasons, as is the 

 case with many other molluscs. 



Valvata tricarinata, Say. 



Erie Canal, Mohawk River, Schuyler's Lake, and Little Lakes. 

 In " Little Lakes" the shells are varied ; bicarinata and simplex, 

 occurring as prevailing forms in the upper lake ; along the marshy 

 borders V. sincera, Say, occurs. I am disposed to believe sincera 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 107 



is only a variety of tricarinata; and it owes its deviation from 

 the usual forms to the influence of station. " V.sincera n is found < 

 in marshes in Michigan. 



Vertigo Bollesiana, Morse. 



On vegetation by roadside, margin of a swamp in Litchfield, 

 1871. Those I have are from Dr. Brown. 



Vertigo milium ? Gould. 



A small species is sometimes found among the drift floated by 

 the rivers at high water in the spring, near Mohawk. 



Vertigo ovata, Say. 



Litchfield, with V. Bollesiana, 1871. It may possibly also 

 occur in the valley; but specimens heretofore regarded as this 

 species were referred by Morse to the following species. 



Vertigo ventricosa, Morse. 



Sometimes found alive in bogs. Oftener found dead in the high- 

 water drift floated into windrows by the river. 



Vitrina limpida, Gould. 



In November and December, 1864, I found immense numbers 

 of large, fine specimens of this Vitrina along the shaded slopes of 

 a ditch on the flats near Mohawk. The soft parts were very dark. 

 Since that time no specimens of Vitrina have been seen near Mo- 

 hawk though repeated search has been made for them. Dr. Brown, 

 of Litchfield, finds Vitrina in his 3"ard. His residence is on a rich 

 soil, the eastern slope of a hill, at an elevation supposed to be 

 about 1260 feet above the sea-level. His specimens are not nu- 

 merous, but are apparently perennial. 1 

 Vivipara contectoides, W. C. Binney. 



A colony (from Illinois) planted in the Erie Canal, fall of 1867, 

 is now thriving. A few specimens were found there in the spring 

 of 1871, remarkable for their beauty and perfect development. 

 Zua lubrica, Leach. 



Stations are numerous, but shells not abundant. 



Mohawk, K Y., Jan. 15, 1872. 



1 Since the preceding notes were written, Dr. Brown lias presented nu- 

 merous large adult specimens taken late in the fall of 1871. The shells are 

 apparently identical with those of the colony of 18G4, but are not so pale 

 being slightly tinged with green. The soft parts of Dr. Brown's speci- 

 mens are not so dark as those found in 1864. Similar variations in color 

 have been observed in the soft parts of well-known species of Succinea. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



SHELLS OF TENNESSEE. (No. 2.) 



BY JAMES LEWIS, M.D. 



Since the publication of my papers on the Shells of the Holston 

 River, and on the Land Shells of Tennessee, 1 a few supplementary 

 species have come to my notice, and conclusions have been reached 

 respecting some of the operculate univalves that occur in the small 

 streams and springs of Knox, Blount, Monroe, and adjoining 

 counties in Tennessee. In this paper conclusions are presented 

 as to what seem to be, with only one or two exceptions, known 

 species. For the identification of species and varieties in several 

 instances thanks are due to Mr. Lea, Mr. Wheatley, Dr. Hartrnan, 

 and others. Too much credit cannot be awarded to the enterprise 

 and interest with which Miss Law has extended her explorations. 



UNIONID^E. 

 Unio argenteus, Lea. 



Conasauga Creek. 



Unio Cumberlandianus, Lea. 



Conasauga Creek and other streams. Scarce. 



Unio Conradieus, Lea. 

 Conasauga Creek. 



Unio Jonesii, Lea. 



Conasauga Creek. A single specimen. 

 Unio pilaris, Lea. 



Holston and Clinch Rivers. 



Unio Pybasii, Lea. 



Various creeks and streams. Somewhat common. 

 Unio sparus, Lea. 



Various creeks and streams. Scarce. 



Unio tumescens, Lea. 



Holston and Clinch Rivers. Not abundant. 

 Margaritana minor, Lea. 



Conasauga Creek. Not abundant. 



'D' 



1 American Journal of Concliology. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Anodonta edentula, Say. 

 Holston River. Scarce. 



CORBICULAD^E. 

 Sphaerium fabale, Prime. 



Turkey Creek, near Concord. Scarce. 

 Sphceriuni occidentale, Prime. 



Lyon's Bend, Knox County. 

 Pisidium abditum, Haldeman. 



Pond Spring, Monroe County ; Haskell's Spring, Knox County. 

 Pisidium compression, Prime. 



Pond Spring. Rare. 



Pisidium virginicum, Bgt. 



Turkey Creek, a few large single valves; Tellico River, more 

 abundant, not large. 



AQUATIC PULMONATES. 

 Lymnaea columella, Say. 



Sinking Creek. Abundant. 

 Lymnaea desidiosa, Say. 



Pond Spring. Abundant. Other localities, a few. 

 Lymnaea humilis ? Say. 



A single specimen was taken alive from a rock high up on a 

 bluff facing the Tennessee River in Roane County. It may have 

 strayed from a little spring of water trickling down the cliff a few 

 feet awa} r . 



Physa heterostropha, Say. 



Specimens are usually found in the various parcels of shells taken 

 from small streams and springs. 



Physa hypnorum, Drap. 



A single specimen. Station unknown. 



Planorbis bicarinatus, Say. 



A few small specimens from a lagoon near Chilhower Mountain 

 in Blount County. Larger specimens in Tellieo River. 



Planorbis parvus, Say. 



A few dead shells were sent for identification, taken from some 

 spring. Two specimens, evidently alive when taken, have been 




110 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



found among other shells. This class of shells is apparently scarce 

 in the regions explored. 



Ancylus Haldemani, Bourgy. ? 



Ilolston River. No specific name was suggested for this shell 

 in my previous paper. It may possibly be A. obscurus, Hald.; if 

 so, the two names are probably synoii3'ms. 



4 



LAND SHELLS. 

 Helix arborea, Say. 



Blount and Monroe Counties. Very scarce. 

 Helix clausa, Say. 



Blount County. Among forty specimens was one having all 

 the features of H. 3Iitchelliana, Lea. 



Helix demissa, Binney. 



The typical form is scarce. The few I have secured are small 

 and pale. The larger shell of this group, which in my previous 

 paper I treated as a variety of ligera, is proportionally a little 

 more elevated and decidedly yellow. Mr. W. G. Binney, I am in- 

 formed, regards it as a variety of demissa. It is apparently as 

 distinct from the typical demissa as sculptiliss, Bland, is from in- 

 dentata Sa}\ This consideration induces me to reclaim for the 

 larger shell the name acerra, hesitatingly suggested in my previous 

 paper. I have a single specimen in no respect distinguishable 

 from the typical demissa except by two teeth, within, as in 

 gularis. 



Helix gularis, Say. 



In my endeavors to find young specimens of this species among 

 the numerous shells sent b} r Miss Law, I am constrained to regard 

 as such the small depressed shells which in my former paper I re- 

 ferred to suppressa. The shells hitherto regarded as suppressa 

 differ so essentially from undoubted specimens of that species from 

 Pennsylvania that I cannot unite them. Among the shells of this 

 type from Miss Law appear to be three varieties of gularis differ- 

 ing in size, form, and elevation. A fourth form is more polished 

 and subglobose, with the umbilicus entirely closed. It may be 

 hereafter separated as a distinct species. 



Helix hirsuta, Say. 



A common species accidentally omitted in former papers. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Helix indentata, Say. 



Blount, Knox, and Monroe Counties. Very rare. 

 Helix infleeta, Say. 



A common species accidentally omitted in previous papers. 

 Helix lasmodon, Phillips. 



Besides the usual depressed form, Miss Law reports a single 

 .specimen, elevated like some of the varieties of gularis. 

 Helix ligera, Say. 



A few well characterized specimens from Monroe County, larger 

 and paler than Ohio shells. 



Helix Mitchelliana, Lea. 



A single shell. (See H. clausa.) 



Helix profunda, Say. 



A single dead shell found on a bluff in Roane County. 

 Helix sculptilis, Bland. 



Monroe County. Yery scarce. 

 Helicina orbiculata, Say. 



Byrd's Bluff, Roane County. Somewhat abundant. 



Succina avara, Say. 

 Single specimen only. Monroe County.. 



OPEECULATED AQUATIC UNIVALVES. 

 Trypanostoma aratum 1 Lea, or bicinctum, Tryon. 



Holston River. Scarce. 

 Trypanostoma glandulum, Anth. Mel. glans, Anth. 



Holston River. This will, I think, prove to be a young Stre- 

 phobasis. 

 Trypanostoma robustum, Lea. 



Holston River. 

 Trypanostoma Troostii, Lea. 



Holston River. 



The species that follow are mostly from small streams and 

 springs, to which frequent references will be made ; and to save 

 space the various stations are here tabulated, and references made 

 to them (in remarks on species), by numbers. 



[Numbers on the right refer to species associated, locally.] 




112 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Knox County. 



1. Sinking Creek. [6,8,10,12.] 3. Lea's Spring. [6,8,10,12.] 



2. Turkey Creek. [7,8,9,11,12.] 4. Campbell's Sta- 



tion. [7,8,9,11,12.] 



Blount County. 



5. Abram's Creek. 



6. Cox's Creek. 



7. Six Mile Creek. 



8. Pistol Creek. 



[2, 11.] 



[8, 11.] 



[4, 12.] 



[6,7,8,11,12.] 



9. Cox's Spring. 

 10. Brook running into 



Little Tennessee River 



[8,12.] 

 [8.] 



Monroe County. 



Trypanostoma Lyonii, Lea. 

 Localities, 12, 20, 44. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Trypanostoma validum ? Anthony. 1 



Loc. 5. 

 Trypanostoma fastigiatum ? Anthony. 1 



Loc. 20. The three supposed species above named seem to form 

 a natural group with T. parvum, Lea, and like that species they 

 are found associated with shells which seem to be a variety of An- 

 culosa subglobosa, Say. It is possible some future writer may 

 unite them as one species. 



Trypanostoma, (N. S.) Lea. 



Localities, 7, 18. 

 Trypanostoma attenuatum, Lea. 



Localities, 41, 32. A variable species, which some of my cor- 

 respondents call T. strigosum, Lea. 



Trypanostoma unciale, Hald. 



Localities, 1, 3, 5, 8, IT, 32. The species is defined as striate or 

 carinate above. I have separated from it all plicate-striate shells 

 that have been referred to this species by my correspondents. 

 The largest shells occur in loc. 8 ; they are also variable, some of 

 them passing through phases referable to the next species to forms 

 entirely free from striations and carinas. The most perfect forms 

 occur in loc. 1*7. 



Trypanostoma Estabrookii, Lea. 



Localities, 2, 4, 8, 16, 18. The shells of loc. 18 are very fine, 

 perfect, and slender ; and have been referred by a correspondent 

 to T. unciale. The shells of loc. 16 are small and imperfect. 



Goniobasis arachnoidea, Anthony. 



Localities, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10, 13, IT, 18, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 28, 29, 

 35, 36, 37, 43. The local varieties are very perplexing, and some 

 of them could not have been identified but for the aid derived from 

 shells of other localities. Some of the various forms have been 

 referred to Try. unciale ; others to Gon.baculum; some of the 

 more slender varieties have been referred to Gon. carinifera, Lam. 

 The shells of one locality (23) have been called an undescribed 

 species of Trypanostoma. Of two other localities (28, 43) the 

 shells have been supposed to be another undescribed species of 

 Trypanostoma. These shells bear a strong resemblance to Mr. 



1 According to Mr. Wheatley. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Lea's figure of Melania perstriata, and I have specimens of loc. 

 28 that were returned to me as perstriata. 



Shells of loc. 10 bear a strong resemblance to Mr. Lea's figure 

 of T. Sycamorense, from which they are (by implication) supposed 

 to be distinct. 



Some of the least plicate specimens of loc. 2 are very like Mr. 

 Lea's figure of Melania oblita, and, of course, have been referred 

 to Try. unciale by my correspondents. I unhesitatingly refer 

 Mr. Anthony's Mel. baculum as a synonym to Gon. arachnoidea ; 

 baculum being the adult form, arachnoidea the immature form ; 

 arachnoidea has priority ; but at the same time I think a careful 

 stiuty of the various shells which mayj^etbe identified with arach- 

 noidea will result in assiguing priority to some other name. 



Goniobasis parruta, Lea. 



Localities, 2, 4, 1 1, 13, 15, 18, 22, 24, 32. This is also a variable 

 species. The largest specimens occur in loc. 2 ; the most perfect 

 shells occur in loc. 18. 



Goniobasis acuto-carinata, Lea. 

 Localities, 1, 3. 



Goniobasis aterina, Lea. 



Localities, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 14, 19, 22, 25, 27, 30, 31, 33, 36, 39, 40, 41, 

 44. Localities 2, 4, produce remarkably perfect shells which my 

 correspondents have differently named as graminea, Hald.; Saf- 

 fordii, Lea, and aterina, Lea. Usually this species is much 

 eroded. 



Goniobasis castanea, Lea. 



Localities, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 14, 16, 18, 21, 24, 26, 31, 37, 45. Lo- 

 calities 2, 4 produce shells, the upper whorls of which are smooth; 

 all the other localities produce shells which, when perfect, are 

 slightly but variably carinate above. Some of the varieties have 

 been referred to Gon. difficilis, Lea; but as that species is "obso- 

 letely plicate" on the upper whorls, the reference does not seem to 

 have been well considered. Localities 30, 31 produce decallate 

 shells that bear a strong resemblance to figures of Gon. pulla, 

 lit':!, hut possibly not identical. Some of the varieties have been 

 referred to " Mel. simplex, Say." I am not able to say the iden- 

 tification is conclusive. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Goniobasis instabilis, Lea. 



Locality 14. I have the name from Mr. Lea. The shells are 

 all smooth, which may account for their difficult identification. 



Melantho rufus, II a Id. 



Locality 20. Common. 

 Melantho docisus, Say. 



Locality 20. Less common. 

 Pomatiopsis lapidaria, Say. 



Locality 38. Not abundant. 



Mohawk. N. Y., Jan. 10, 1872. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CATALOGUE OF THE FAMILY CHAMIDJE. 

 BY GEORGE "W. TRYON, JR. 



Family CHAMID.E, Swainson. 

 Man. Malacol, 374. 1840. 

 Genus CHAMA, Linn. 

 Syst. Nat. Edit. x. 1758. 



The subgenus Arcinella, of Schumacher, adopted by H. & A. 

 Adams, has no systematic value, the peculiarities on which it is 

 founded, recognizable at once in the t} 7 pe species, so fade away 

 through the series of species that no distinct line of demarcation 

 remains. The species of Chama are very difficult, owing to irre- 

 gularit}' of growth, sculpture, and coloring, and I am convinced 

 that the comparison of large suites of specimens would result in 

 a wholesale reduction of the species. Some of the earlier species^ 

 described by Linnreus and Lamarck, cannot be identified with 

 an}^ certainty at this dajr. 



1. C. aeruginosa, Lamarck. 



(not identified.) 



2. C. arcinella, Linn. Syst. Nat. Ed. xii., 1139. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 26. 1846. 

 Arcinella spinosa, Schum. Essai, Nov. Gen. 142. 1817. 



West Indies. 



3. C. aspersa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 24. 1846. 



Philippines. 



4. C. brassioa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 31. 1847. 



Scarcely distinct from C. Pacifica. 



Philippines. 



5. C. Buddiana, C. B. Adams, Panama Shells, 253. 1852. 



Panama. 



6. C. Cardit/Eformis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 33. 1847. 



Hab. ? 



7. C. cistula, Reeve, Icon. sp. 51. 1847. 



C. appressa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 55. 1847. 



Honduras. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



8. C. Corbierei, Jonas, Menke Zeitsch. 12G. 1846. Savigny, 



Desc. Eg}'pte, t. 14, f. 8. 



Red Sea. 



9. C. corrugata, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 305, t. 31, f. 7. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 9. 184G. 



Real Llejos, Central America. 



10. C. crenulata, Lamarck. 



{not identified.) 



11. C. cornucopia, Reeve, Icon. sp. 22. 1846. 



Red Sea. 



12. C. cristella, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. Reeve, icon. sp. 42. 



1847. 



Batavia South Australia. 



13. C. crocata, Lamarck. 



(not identified.) 



14. C. Claasseni, Jonas, Zeit. Malak. 127. 1846. 



Red Sea. 



15. C. decussata, Lamarck. 



(not identified.) 



16. C. divaricata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 20. 1846. 



Philippines. 



17. C. exigua, Reeve, Icon. sp. 47. 1847. 



Singapore. 

 AS. C. echinata, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 305, t. 39, f. 5. Reeve, 

 Icon. sp. 35. 1847. 



Porto Portrero, Central America. 



19. C. exogyra, Conrad, Journ. Philad. Acad. vii. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 38. 1847. 



California, Mexico. 



20. C. fibula, Reeve, Icon. sp. 27. 1846. 



Philippines. 



21. C. Florida, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 49. 



1847. 



Honduras. 



22. C. foliacea, Quoy, Voy. Astrol. Reeve, Icon. sp. 8. 1846. 



Philippines. 



23. C. frondosa, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 302, t. 38, f. 1, 2. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 1. 1846. 

 C. pmrpurascens, Conrad. 



W. Columbia to Mazallan. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



24. C. gryphoides, Linn. Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1139. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 43. 1847. 

 C. unicornis, Phil, (not of Lam.) Moll. Sicil. i. 68. 

 G. asperella, Deshayes, Lamarck, vi. 581. 



Mediterranean. 



25. C. iostoma, Conrad, Jour. Philad. Acad. vii. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 7, 13. 1846. 



G. pr'oducta, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 305, t. 39, f. 4. 



G. coralloides, Reeve, Icon. sp. 18. 1846. 



G. eehinata, Brod. (partim.) Zool. Trans, i. 306, t. 39, f. 



6,7. 



Sandivich Islands. 



26. C. Japonica, Lara. 



(not identified.) 



27. C. laciniata, Adams & Reeve, Y03*. Samarang. 



China. 



28. C. Lazarus, Linn. Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1139. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 4. 1850. 



C. damsecornis, Lam. 



Mauritius, Ph ilippines. 



29. C. li.mbula, Lam. 



(not identified.) 



30. C. lingua-felis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 53. 1847. 



Philippines. 



31. C. lobata, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 303, t. 38, f. 4, 5. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 29. 1847. 



West Indies.* 



32. C. Meyeri, Jonas, Zeit. fur Malak. iii. 127. 1846. 



Bed Sea. 



33. C. multisquamosa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 12. 1846. 



Philippines. 



34. C. macrophylla, Chemn. Conch. Cab. vii. 149, t. 52, f. 514, 



515. Reeve, Icon. sp. 6. 1846. 

 C. Lazarus, Lam. (not Linn.) Anim. s. Yert. 



West Indies. 



35. C. nivalis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 12. 1846. 



Philippines. 



* Mr. Reeve says that this locality is erroneous, and that -well-authenti- 

 cated specimens from China are in the British Museum ; hut Mr. Broderip 

 is correct, as it is a common West Indian species. The Chinese specimens 

 must have made a long voyage before they were collected there. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 110 



36. C. obliquata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 28. 1846. 



Philippines. 



37. C. Pacifica, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 303, t. 30, f. 1. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 15. 1846. 

 C Broderipii, Reeve, Icon. sp. 2. 1846. 

 C. imbricala, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 304, t. 30, f. 2. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 3. 1846. 



Lord Hood's Islands. 



38. C. Panamensis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 45. 1847. 



Panama. 

 30. C. pellucida, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 302, t. 38, f. 3. Reeve, 

 Icon. sp. 32. 1847. 



Peru to San Diego, California. 



40. C. PRyETEXTA, Reeve, Icon. sp. 46. 1847. 



Hab. ? 

 Perhaps = C.frondosa, Brod. 



41. C. planata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 25. 1846. 



Philippines. 



42. C. pulchella, Reeve, Icon. sp. 10. 1846. 



C. fimbriata, Reeve, Icon. sp. 41. 1847. 



Australia. 



43. C. radians, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 10. 1846 



Hab. ? 



44. C. Reflexa, Reese, Icon. sp. 16. 1846. 



N. Australia. 



45. C. rubea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 37. 1847. 



Philippines. 



46. C. ruderalis, Lam. 



(not identified.) 



47. C. Ruppellii, Reeve, Icon. sp. 30. 1847. 



Red Sea. 



48. C. sarda, Reeve, Icon. sp. 40. 1847. 



Honduras. 



40. C. Senegalensis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 5. 1846. 



Senegal. 



50. C. sulpiiurea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 14. 1846. 



Philippines. 



51. C. sordida, Brod. Zool. Trans, i. 300, t. 30, f. 8, 0. Reeve, 



Icon. sp. 23. 1846. 



Isle of Cuna, Central America. 



Doubtfully distinct from venosa, Reeve. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



52. C. sinuosa, Broil. Zool. Trans, i. 303, t. 39, f. 11. Reeve, Icon. 



sp. 11. 1846. 

 C. ferruginea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 21. 1846. 



West Indies to Brazil. 



53. C. spinosa, Broil. Zool. Trans, i. 306, t. 38, f. 8, 9. Reeve, 



Icon, sp. 44. 1847. 

 C.fragum, Reeve, Icon. sp. 48. 1847. 

 C. Jukesii, Reeve, Icon. sp. 39. 1847. 

 C. pellisphocse, Reeve, Icon. sp. 54. 1847. 



Lord Hood's I. to California, Philippines, Australia. 



54. C. tumulosa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 52. 1847. 



Honduras. 



55. C. variegata. Reeve, Icon. sp. 50. 1847. 



Honduras. 



56. C. venosa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 34. 1847. 



G. Janus, Reeve, Icon. sp. 36. 1847. 

 Perhaps = G. sordida, Broil. 



Gallapagos Is. 



CATALOGUE OF THE FAMILY CHAMETRACHJEIDJE. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Family CHAMETRACHiEID^E, H. & A. Adams. 



Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 404. 1857. 



Genus CHA.METRACHJEA, Klein. 



Ostracol. 149. 1753. 



Hippopus, Martini, Verzeichn, e. auserl. Sam ml. 1773. 

 Tridacna, Da Costa, Elem. Conch. 274. 1776. 

 Ghama, sp. Linn. Syst. Nat. 



1. C. elongata, Lam. Anim. s. Yert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 2. 1862. 

 (Var.) C. compressa, Reeve, Icon. sp. 5. 1862. 

 (Var.) C. elongatissima, Bianconi, Mem. Acad. Bologna, vii. 

 t. 25, f. 2. . 



Mozambique, Ph ilippines. 




-A/ u 2f.at> 



Wyoming Territory 



* 



CMLM BLUFFS 



F/NF BlUF. 



$ of' r 



GENERAL VIEW OF DEAD PINE BLUFFS. 



I AT. 4-0' li. L0N6-I04-' w 



r ERTIARr SHELLS 



SHOWING LOCATION 



OF 



IMPLEMENTS, FIRE-PLACES 



etc etc . 



I04-" 

 W.L 



SCALE FOUR MILES TO 1 1 NO 





- - 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



2. C. crocea, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 9. 1862. 



(Var.) C. Cumingii, Reeve, Icon. sp. 7. 1862. 

 (Var.) C. ferruginea, Reeve, Icon. sp. 8. 1862. 



Philippines. 



3. C. gigas, Linn. Syst. Nat. Reeve, Icon. sp. 1. 1862. 



C. mutica, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. 

 C. rudis, Reeve, Icon. sp. 4. 1862. 



Indian and Pacific Oceans. 



4. C. serrifera, Lam. Anim. sans Vert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 6. 



1862. 



Moluccas. 



5. C. squamosa, Lam. Anim. sans Vert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 3. 



1862. 



Moluccas. 

 Doubtfully distinct from C. gigas, Linn. 



Genus HIPPOPUS, Meuschen. 

 Mus. Gevers, 488. 1787. 



Pelvis, Muhlf. Entwurf. 67. 1811. 

 Cerceis, Gistel, Naturg. 172. 1848. 



1. H. Hippopus, Linn. (Chama.) Linn, Syst. Nat. Ed. xii. 1137. 

 H. equinus, Meuschen, Entwurf. 67. 1811. 

 H. maculatus, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. Reeve, Icon. sp. 1. 

 1862. 



Eastern Seas. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



May 7. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



Mr. Thomas G. Gentry called the attention of the Academy to 

 what he regarded as a rare and remarkable case of hybridism, 

 which occurred between Macacus nemestrinus, male, and Macacus 

 cynomolgus, female. After exhibiting an alcoholic specimen of 

 the young, and a stuffed specimen of the mother which was clearly 

 identified as Ilacacus cynomolgus, he detailed the leading charac- 

 ters of the two parents. 



He stated that the male differed from the female in being more 

 robust and of greater dimensions; in the almost perfect smoothness 

 of the face, which is of a pale flesh color, while in the female it is 

 black and invested with a close grow T th of short black hairs ; in the 

 absence of a crest upon the head of the male, which is a prevailing 

 characteristic of the species (31. nemestrinus), and its presence in 

 the female, which is a prominent feature of the species to which she 

 belongs; in color; and, lastly, in the unequal development of the 

 caudal appendage, which in the male is about seven inches in 

 length, and densely clothed with long hairs, while in the female 

 it is more than twice the length, and nearly naked for more than 

 two-thirds of its extent. 



He further said that there could be no doubt of the genuineness 

 of the case, as the tw T o had been isolated from all other monkeys 

 during the past two years. 



Healso called the attention of the Academy to a fact which he 

 believed not to be generally known, and which goes far to show 

 the close relationship between the Bimana and Quadrumana. In 

 this instance, the menstrual flow, as sometimes occurs in the 

 human species, continued at the regular periods up to the time of 

 birth. 



May 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj'-seven members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Notice of some Crustacea from the Island of St. Martin, W. I. 

 Collected by Dr. Van Rijgersma." By T. Hale Streets, U. S. N. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan observed that on several occasions, before 

 the Academy and other scientific bodies, he had offered some facts 

 and suggestions tending to prove that what are popularly termed 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Pine needles are not properly leaves, but rather branchlets, which, 

 through the real leaves becoming attached for nearly their whole 

 length to the axis or stem, had of necessity taken on themselves 

 the offices of leaves. He believed that many botanists had coin- 

 cided with his views ; but some very distinguished ones, among 

 others he believed his esteemed friend Prof. Asa Gray, did not feel 

 warranted in fully agreeing with him. He was rather glad of this 

 hesitation, because it was an incentive to him to continue his 

 observations and searches for new facts which might either 

 weaken or confirm his original views. 



He now wished to offer to the Academy two additional obser- 

 vations in favor of the axial origin of these so-called leaves. 



In plants in general the leaves unfolded contemporaneously 

 with the branches or axes. He could not call to mind an instance 

 where the axis first extended to its full length before the leaves 

 ventured to push forth from the nodes. The axial buds usually 

 remained dormant until this final length was approached. When 

 this occurred, or if anything happened to destroy the apex of the 

 growing shoot, then the axial buds pushed into growth, and never 

 to any great extent before. In the Pine family we had the follow- 

 ing axial experience. The buds which bore the needles were axial 

 buds, situated at the base of the scale the adnated leaf as he 

 maintained. These buds remained nearly at rest until the axis 

 had reached its full length, and in this respect coincided with the 

 axial buds of trees in general. A pine tree in the spring season 

 presented the appearance of an immense ehandelier, with its long 

 axial shoots as the naked burners. In this respect it is apparent 

 that, regarding the fascicles of pine needles as branchlets, the 

 law of folial development coincidental with axial growth finds no 

 exception in the Pine family. 



The next striking consideration was one derived from the 

 nature of the inflorescence. In vegetable morphology, the floral 

 system of plants was made up of neither leaf nor axis separately,, 

 but conjointly of both. In the inflorescence of the pine, the male 

 catkins each took the place of a fascicle. The axial bud at the 

 base of the leaf scale, instead of a bunch of needles, developed as 

 a spike of flowers. This spike or catkin is metamorphosed nee- 

 dles. If these needles were leaves merely, we could hardly ex- 

 pect inflorescence to be formed from them. It would be an excep- 

 tion to regular rule. But regarding the needles of the pine as 

 rather axis than leaf, their development to flowers accords with 

 general law ; and he held that it was more philosophical to accept 

 conclusions based on a;eneral law. than to hunt for new laws to 

 account for apparent exceptions to general rule. 



For his own part he felt there needed no further reasoning than 

 he had offered at previous times ; but he thought perhaps these 

 additional suggestions might have weight witli other minds that 

 had not yet decided as fully as he had done. 




124 proceedings op the academy op 



May 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Notes on Lingual Dentition of certain species of North Ameri- 

 can Land Shells." By Thos. Bland and Wm. G. Binne}*. 



" On a new California Pulmonata." By John G. Cooper, M. D. 



Prof. Cope called attention to the anterior curvature of the 

 horn in the common deer Cariacus virginianus, and said it was a 

 point of interest to determine whether the true axis or beam was 

 curved forwards or not. On comparison with the Cariacus ma- 

 crotis of the plains, it was found that the true beam was partly 

 erect and was branched (as already shown by Baird) while an 

 anterior snag was directed forward, marking exactly the curved 

 line of the axis of the C.virginianus. The curvature of the latter 

 was then shown to be due to the predominant development of 

 this large anterior snag, and the partial suppression of the true 

 beam. 



He then exhibited a spike or second 3'ear's horn of the C. vir- 

 ginianus, and alluded to the occasional occurrence of permanent 

 spike-horned deer in the Adirondack region of New York. He 

 said Alexander B. Lamberton, a gentleman who had spent much 

 time in that region, confirmed the statements that had been made 

 as to their existence, but said that they were rare. He then ex- 

 hibited a pair of simple beams or spikes of three feet in length, 

 which had been taken from a black-tailed deer (0. macrotis) shot 

 within three miles of the Kansas Pacific R. R. in Kansas. They 

 had evidently belonged to an adult animal, and were the first ex- 

 amples of spike-horned deer of that species which had been re- 

 corded. 



Prof. Cope further remarked that observation on varieties and 

 variation was at the basis of a true system of creation, and that 

 while it was often necessary for the sake of systematic clearness to 

 unite many varieties under one specific head, we did not in this 

 way escape their recognition and study. He said that the neces- 

 sary exactness of systems had concealed from many the fact as 

 well as the meaning of variation. 



There were and had been for years two schools of naturalists, 

 whose modes of treating natural history subjects were quite 

 different. In reference to these modes, they might be called 

 the technical and natural schools. As, however, the claim of the 

 latter to better appreciation of natural affinities and classifica- 

 tions appeared to him to be doubtful, he thought theA r had 

 better be called the pseudo-natural school, while the so-called 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



technical naturalists were such on account of their pursuing an 

 analytic method. The pseudo-natural school decided on the 

 affinities of organic tj^pes by their "physiognomy" or their fades 

 habit and the like, reading nature with an artist's eye, and at- 

 taining opinions of systems without the trouble of much ana- 

 tomical study. They' protested against the strict adhesion to 

 " technical" (or structural) characters, saying that they violate 

 " natural affinities" oftener than support or express them. Thus 

 their systems become pl^siognomical, and please the eye by 

 their appearance, rather than the mind by their expression of ex- 

 act structural relations ; in accordance with this s} r stem, species 

 were always well distinguished, and could not have been derived 

 from common parents, but that nevertheless everything " runs 

 together," and that the higher groupings are mainly " opiniona- 

 tive," in fact, that, although nature has a beautiful system, we 

 do not yet understand it, and that it is "too soon to generalize." 

 Perhaps this obscurity has its advantages, as it certainly shelters 

 in its profundities any theory of creation its supporters may 

 choose to adopt. Hence they might be called the Anaesthetic 

 school, or the Ansesthesiasts (si' alidr,^). 



The unnatural school think that the wav of determining" the 

 origin and relations of an object is to ascertain of what it is com- 

 posed. This was to be accomplished b}^ analysis of all its ap- 

 pearances, and an account taken of every character. In this way 

 the structure is learned, and a system based on anatomy is estab- 

 lished. As anatomical systems are unnatural, and anatomical 

 characters very difficult to discover by the ansesthesiasts, they 

 regard such systems with disfavor, although they admit that they 

 constitute the only correct classification of bones, teeth, brains, etc. 

 The analysts even find that species having very close specific 

 relationships occasionally present different generic characters. 

 This was proof positive to the Anoesthesiasts of the errors of the 

 technical school. But it was still less to their credit that they laid 

 stress on variations and monstrosities, which were mere accidents. 

 The fact that the analyzers bglieved in the development of species, 

 showed their systems to be unnatural. 



The speaker did not take sides, but observed that, in order to 

 ascertain the relations of a species, he usually examined it first. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said he had recently read, in the published 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, the report of 

 a discussion between Professor Cope and Mr. Eli K. Price in re- 

 gard to the Hypothesis of Evolution. Mr. Price appeared to lay 

 much stress on the assumed fact that variations were rather the 

 result of interference by art with the regular flow of natural laws, 

 and that it was therefore unphilosophical to attempt to found any 

 theory of evolution on the facts of variation. 



For himself he might say, that no theory of development, so far 




126 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



as he had been able to understand them, had satisfied his mind ; 

 -but that there was a continual growth of form, wholly unaided by 

 man or any external agency, he thought fully warranted by nume- 

 rous facts. He believed that this natural and inherent growth 

 force in relation to form, was greater than even some who believed 

 they understood the laws governing evolution were disposed to 

 admit. Not only intelligent minds like that of Mr. Price, but even 

 evolutionists, like Professor Gray and Dr. Engleman -judging 

 from the last edition of the Manual of Botany, seemed indisposed 

 to allow great power to inherent change ; for whenever a marked 

 change occurred, and there happened to be distinct forms at each 

 end of the line, w 7 e find the fact assumed that such change could 

 only occur by outside influences. Thus we find in a recent notice 

 of Rubus neglectus of Peck, the expression " hybrid ?" Also in 

 relation to the oaks Quercus tridentata, Q.quinqueloba, Q. Leana, 

 Q. heterophylla, "probably some or all of them hybrid ;" and so on 

 in other instances. 



He wished to claim no credit for any particular original dis- 

 coveries, but thought it had fallen to his fortune perhaps as much 

 as to that of any one, to remark that art both in the animal and 

 vegetable world had had more credit awarded to it in the matter of 

 change than it w r as entitled to. He had shown long ago in the 

 American Naturalist, that even in the production of double flowers, 

 usually deemed peculiarly the privilege of the florist, nature herself 

 was the peer of the gardener. He had shown by direct evidence that 

 some things had been found double in a wild state, and the great 

 probability that the double forms of so many species of such a 

 common thing as the Butter-cup (Ranunculus), and other weeds 

 never cultivated, originated naturally in the same way; and in 

 numerous papers and remarks before this institution, and in other 

 places, he had shown that there was as great variation in those 

 genera which had only one species in a given locality, as there are 

 in the cases of the Oaks and Blackberries before referred to. At 

 the present moment he remembered especially a short paper in the 

 American Naturalist on the Ox-eye daisy ( Chrysanthemum leucan- 

 themum) and in the Proceedings of the Academy on " Variations 

 in Epigrea repens." There are no "allied species" here to hybri- 

 dize with. They are far out of the way of cultivation. Neither 

 gardening nor hybridization can by any possibility have anything 

 to do with the great variations Ave see. 



But he would now offer another contribution to this Class of 

 facts. He had journe^yed last summer several hundred miles 

 through the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, and had noted re- 

 markable variations in the only species of Oak in that region, 

 Que?'cus Douglassii, or Q. Neo-mexicana of some authors. The 

 first plants he found of this occupied large clumps in flat open 

 spaces, and grew only about three feet high. He felt sure he had 

 several species, and collected specimens accordingly. One form 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 127 



had the leaves so much like the Quercus Cerris of Europe, that 

 branches of the two mixed together could scarcely be separated; 

 others came near in their resemblance the European Quercus 

 robur ; and again some near Q. alba of our own country. Did these 

 species grow there, we should assuredly have the remark by the 

 esteemed author of the " Manual." " Probably a hybrid between 

 Q. cerris and Q. alba." It was only after many successive days 

 of acquaintance with it, during which it had ranged from a low 

 bush to a small tree from leaves deepl}' lobed to leaves almost 

 entire from leaves of a deep shining green to leaves of a glau- 

 cous gray trees with fruit pretty well matured, to others only 

 just commencing to set their fruit from long to short peduncu- 

 lated, elongated to sub-rounded fruit and so on through other 

 changes that he was forced to the conclusion that he had but 

 one species to deal with, and such he believed would be the con- 

 clusion of any eareful botanist. 



Whatever may be ultimately accepted as the correct theory of 

 evolution, the fact of evolution so great as to produce forms equal 

 to the most decided species could scarcely be disputed ; and this, 

 too, as such cases as this of Quercus Douglassii proved, entirely 

 removed from the hand of art, or the agency of hybridization. 



May 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members of the academy: 

 Jos. H. Ogden, Jos. E. Gillingham, D. S. Holman, J. W. Miller, P. 

 P. Morris, and T. M. Drown, M.D. 



Mons. E. Riviere, of Menton, France, w r as elected a correspon- 

 dent. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be printed. 



Permission having been granted, Prof. Cope exhibited some 

 vertebrae of a Plesiosauroid reptile and those of a smaller species, 

 probably a Glidastes, which were found in close proximity near 

 Sheridan, Kansas, by Joseph Savage, of Leavenworth. According 

 to this gentleman, the vertebral column of the Glidastes Was found 

 immediately below that of the Plesiosauroid and in a reversed 

 position, as though it had been swallowed by the latter or larger 

 reptile. The largest vertebrae of the Glidastes were about three- 

 quarters the length and one-fourth the diameter of those of the 

 Plesiosauroid, and the animal must have furnished a large, or at 

 least a long, mouthful for its captor. The bones of the Glidastes 



\ 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



were not in good condition, but resembled those of G. cineriarum, 

 Cope, though smaller. 



The Plesiosanroid was new to science, being the third species 

 discovered in the Cretaceous of the Niobrara group. Specifically 

 it was nearest to the Elasmosaurus platyarus. Cope, but was 

 readily distinguished by the relativel}' shorter cervical vertebrae, 

 and the regular acute ridges on the exterior surfaces near the 

 margin of the articular faces, as well as the less contracted form 

 of all the vertebral centra. As the neural arches and the cervical 

 parapoplvyses were not coossified with the centra, the species 

 was referred to the genus PJesiosaurus, with the name P. gulo, 

 Cope, and the following description: 



Specimen represented by eleven cervical, thirteen dorsal, and 

 seven or eight other vertebrae, with portions of scapular and 

 pelvic arch and ribs. 



The cervicals are longer than wide, and considerably com- 

 pressed inform anteriorly, but depressed posteriorly; this is 

 partly due to pressure, but not wholly, and it is likety that the 

 posterior centra are about as transverse as in Gimoliasaurus 

 magnus, Leidy, while the anterior are relatively several times as 

 long. In the length the latter resemble the English Plesiosauri. 

 in which the centra are also compressed. The compressed ante- 

 rior centra exhibit a ridge on the side above the middle. A more 

 massive ridge extends between the articular extremities at the 

 lower part of the side, and presents a pit for the parapophysis. 

 The pit for the neural spine is of nearly similar size. Where the 

 cervicals begin to be depressed, two foramina appear near together 

 on the inferior face, and the articular extremities display an open 

 obtuse emargination below. They are also emarginate for the 

 neural canal above, so as to have a form approaching a transverse 

 figure 8. In the large posterior cervicals the sides are contracted 

 both below and at the sides. In all the cervicals the articular 

 faces are a little concave, in the larger with some median con- 

 vexities. 



In none of the dorsals preserved are the diaphopyses seen to 

 issue from the centra, hence they are probably not posterior in 

 position. The centra soon become smaller than those of the 

 posterior cervicals, and are subround in section, with a well- 

 marked emargination for the neural canal. The sides are gently 

 concave, and are without angulation, but are marked near the 

 articular extremity with short, sharp, and regular undivided ridges, 

 eight in a half inch. The articular faces are slightly concave and 

 without ridges. There are the two inferior foramina, and one on 

 the lower part of each side. The articular face for the neural arch 

 is an oval pit extending the length of the centrum and inter- 

 rupted by some transverse ridges near the middle. The vertebrae 

 diminish in size posteriorly. Two centra, probably sacral, resem- 

 ble the dorsals, but present an extensive vertical articular surface 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 129 



on each side. This has raised edges and terminates above in the 

 longitudinal surface for the neural arch, having thus a T _s l ia P e - 

 It narrows below to an obtuse point, and no doubt supported a 

 free diapoplrysis. 



The fragments of the pelvic and scapular arches indicate that 

 they were eapacious. The clavicle inclosed a large foramen, was 

 rather narrow, and thickened on the inner edge. Its glenoid 

 surface was wide and sub-rhomboid. Some of the other bones 

 were quite thin. 



MEASUREMENTS. 



M. 



Length of anterior cervical 0.062 



Depth articular face do .050 



"Width of articular face do. ' .050 



Length of posterior cervical .070 



Depth articular face do .052 



Width " " 090 



Distance between parapophysi .048 



Length anterior dorsal .059 



Depth articular face do .062 



Width " " 072 



" neural canal on centrum . . . . .017 



Long diameter proximal end clavicle . . .114 



Associated with these remains were those of a turtle of the 

 size of some of the large Gheloniidse of recent seas. The only por- 

 tions were the scapulo-procoracoid, the coracoid, and the mandible 

 nearly complete. The two former were like those of Ghelydra; 

 the procoracoid issuing nearly at the articular extremity, and the 

 coracoid being of moderate elongation and much expanded dis- 

 tally, and with nearly straight axis. The mandibular rami were 

 remarkably slender and Avith correspondingly short symphysis. 

 The tomia obtuse and directed outwards, the apex flat and obtuse. 

 Coronoid process slightly elevated ; articular bone osseous. 

 Length coracoid .250 m. ; diameter distally .080 ; distal width of 

 scapula .058; length ramus of mandible .150; length symphysis 

 .030. 



The general characters of this form were thought to agree with 

 Cynocercus, Cope, though the individual was larger than that 

 on which the G. incisus was established. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MARINE BIVALVE MOLLUSCA. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



1. Crassatella Adeline, Tryon. Plate 6, fig. 1. 



Shell ovate, triangular, anteriorly rounded, posteriorly pro- 

 duced ; umbones depressed, slightly undulated. Surface white 

 with brown rays, occasionally marked with cuneiform characters 

 of darker color under a thin dark brown epidermis; within choco- 

 late color, margins white without crenulations. 



Length 3, alt. 2.25, diam. 1.13 inches. 



Habitat, unknown. Museum of the Academy. 



This species is nearly allied to G. Antillarum, Reeve, but is 

 not so gibbous, and is more narrowly produced behind; it is also 

 readily distinguished by its peculiar colored markings. 



2. Lucina (Codakia) Distinguenda, Tryon. Plate 6, fig. 3. 



Shell orbicular, depressed, disk-like, covered with flattened 

 radiating ridges which are crossed by numerous close-set, raised, 

 concentric striae. White with a faint tinge of pink : interior with 

 a broad marginal band of deep pink. 



Long. 3, alt. 2.G5, diam. 1 inches. 



Habitat., Gulf of California. W. M. Gabb. Museum of the 

 Academy. 



This fine large species has been confounded, by Mr. P. P. 

 Carpenter and others, with an analogous West Indian species 

 Lucina tigrina, Linn. It is readily distinguished, however, by 

 its flattened form and border, and more depressed ribs. 



3. Circe (Crista) bidivavicata, Tryon. Plate 6, fig. 2. 



Shell oblong-oval, thick, somewhat ventricose, sides declining 

 convexly and ventral margin slightly rounded, covered b} T radiating 

 rounded ribs which are finally bifurcate and nodose ; ribs poste- 

 riorly bi-divaricate, forming a series of M's. Rust colored with 

 brown splotches, white within. 



Long. 1.65, alt. 1, diam. .65 inch. 



Habitat. Red Sea. Museum of the Academy. 



This species resembles Crista divaricata, Chemn., its charac- 

 teristic difference being the doubly divaricate disposition of its 

 ribs. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



NOTICE OF SOME CRUSTACEA FROM THE ISLAND OF ST. MARTIN, W. I., 

 COLLECTED BY DR. VAN RIJGERSMA. 



BY T. HALE STREETS, U.S.N. 



BRACHYURA. 



MAIOIDEA. 

 Pericera corktjta, H. Milne-Edwards. Hist. Nat. des Crust., Vol. I. p. 

 335 ; PI. XIV. bis. Fig. 5. 



OCYPODOIDEA. 



Gelasimus affinis, Nov. sp. 



Male. This species is very closely allied to G. mordax, Smith. 

 The carapax is convex longitudinally and slightly so transverse^. 

 The dorsal surface of the carapax is very similar to that of G. 

 mordax. Like that species it is punctate, and the space between 

 the puncta is perfectly smooth. The regions are but faintly 

 marked out on the dorsum ; a prominent sulcus separates the gas- 

 tric and cardiac regions. The front is broad and deflexed. Its 

 dorsal surface is grooved in the medial line ; the tip is curved back- 

 ward and downward so as to be completely hidden when looked 

 at from above ; it is bifid. The front is marginate above at the 

 point where it is curved backward. The upper edge of the supe- 

 rior orbital border is straight, but directed a little backward. The 

 ascent of the outer portion of the curved lower edge is much more 

 gradual and is longer than the inner portion of the same edge, 

 which is curved rapidly downward. The raised margin of the 

 lower edge is finely denticulated. The antero-lateral angle is some- 

 what projecting, and the anterior portion of the lateral border is 

 thin and straight. The margin is raised, and in some cases finely 

 denticulated. The posterior portion of it is curved inward and 

 terminates opposite the cardiac region. From the point where 

 the postero-lateral border turns inward, a line runs downward and 

 backward in a curved manner to join the posterior border. In the 

 space left by the divergence of these two lines there is one, and in 

 some cases two, short plications. 



In the larger cheliped, the merus is triangular in form, the ante- 

 rior surface is smooth, the borders are granular or tuberculose, 

 and the superior surface is arcuate and crossed by short pecteni- 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



form lines, as is also the external surface. The superior and 

 external surface of the carpus is obscurely tuberculose, and the 

 inner surface is crossed by an oblique, smooth ridge. The basal 

 portion of the propodus is shorter than the digital. The superior 

 and external surface is covered thickly with small depressed tuber- 

 cles. On the superior surface these tubercles are distinct and are 

 separated by distinct intervals, but they become gradually smaller, 

 more numerous, and are thickly crowded together towards the in- 

 ferior border. A raised tuberculose margin extends from the 

 base of the propodal finger along the whole length of the inferior 

 border to the carpus. The inferior part of the inner surface is 

 minutely granulose, and is crossed by an oblique tuberculose ridge 

 which extends to the evacuation for the reception of the carpus. 

 The space between this ridge and the base of the dactylus is 

 covered with tubercles. The superior edge is carinated ; from its 

 posterior part a tuberculate line curves downward around the 

 upper part of the depression into which the carpus folds. The 

 fingers are long and slender, smooth and punctate. The row of 

 tubercles along the inner margin of the prehensile edge of the 

 propodal finger curves upward behind the base of the dactylus. 

 The prehensile edge is armed with tubercles ; there is a large one 

 near the middle and another at the tip. The dactylus is tubercu- 

 lose at its base ; its prehensile edge is also armed with tubercles ; 

 those in the median line are the largest. The tips arc hooked. 

 In the ambulatory feet the merus is broad and compressed, and 

 the upper part of the superior surface is marked by pectin iform 

 lines; the fourth and fifth segments are hairy. 



The abdomen is similar to that of G. pugnax. The second and 

 third segments are broadest. The terminal segment is narrower 

 than the penultimate, and is arcuate in form. 



The female is distinguished from the male by being minutely 

 granulose on the dorsal surface of the carapax, and the carapax 

 is nearly plane transversely. 



Dimensions of the male. Length of the carapax .5G-.65 in.; 

 breadth .37 .44 in. Length of the hand .74-1 inch. Length of 

 the carapax of the female .50-.53 in. ; breadth .31 -8*7 in. 



This species can be distinguished from G.jmgnax by having the 

 anterior surface of the merus smooth, and a smooth oblique ridge 

 on the inner surface of the carpus. It differs from G. mordax in 

 not having the superior surface and the upper part of the external 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



surface obscurely tuberculose, nor is the inferior portion smooth. 

 The carapax in the female is nearly plane, and the lateral margins 

 of the branchial region are not tuberculose. 



LEUCOSOIDEA. 

 Calappa galloides, Stimpson. Arm. Lye. Nat. Hist. New York. Vol. 

 VII. p. 71. 



ANOMOURA. 



Dkojiia lator, H. Milne-Edwards. Hist. Nat. des Crust., Vol. II. p. 174. 



Petrolistiies nodostjs, Nov. sp. 



The carapax is broadly ovate, about as broad as long. It is 

 nearly plane from side to side, and convex from behind forward. 

 The anterior portion is nodulated; the nodules are arranged in a 

 semicircular manner transversely across the dorsum from one 

 hepatic region to the other. There are two nodules, larger than 

 the others, placed in the centre behind and between the orbits. 

 The posterior portion of the carapax is indistinctly imbricated. 

 The front is prominent and deeply tridentated. The middle tooth 

 is the largest and triangular in shape, and very slightly more 

 prominent than the lateral ones. The lateral teeth are broad; 

 their outer margin is convex and the inner is concave; their apices 

 are directed inward. A shallow groove is in the middle of the front ; 

 and there is also a groove on each side running down into the 

 lateral teeth. The superior margin of the orbit is inflated and 

 everted. The external angle is acute, but not prominent. The 

 eyes are large. The peduncles of the antennae are knobby; the 

 first article presents an obtuse tooth on its anterior margin. 



The right cheliped was missing. The left is large, compressed, 

 imbricated on the superior surface, and smooth on the inferior. 

 The hand is as long as the carapax ; the width is greater at its 

 junction with the dactylus than where it joins the carpus. The 

 posterior margin is covered with a dense pubescence. The dac- 

 tylus and propodus closely approximate, and their approximated 

 borders are finely denticulated. Their extremities are hooked. 

 The dactylus presents a slight groove on its superior surface. The 

 carpus is shorter than the hand. The anterior margin is armed 

 with four large, serrated, and imbricated teeth; the two middle 

 ones are the largest, and are united at their bases ; the external 

 tooth is smallest. The superior edge of the distal extremity of 

 the carpus is dilated. There is a small tooth at the external angle ; 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and between the two angles are two rounded prominences. The 

 superior surface presents a well-marked ridge with a sulcus on 

 each side of it. 



The ambulatory feet are hairy : the third article is broad, com- 

 pressed, and imbricated. The color of the carapax and cheliped 

 is reddish. The length of the carapax is .025 of an inch. 



Petrolisthes jugosus, Nov. sp. 



The carapax is rotundo-ovate in outline, about as broad as long, 

 depressed, and smooth, or very lightly granular under the micro- 

 scope. The front is deflexed and trilobate. The lobes are rounded ; 

 the middle one is more prominent than the lateral ones. There is 

 a well-marked median furrow extending to the tip of the middle 

 lobe ; and a furrow on each side which terminates at the anterior 

 border of the lateral lobes. The anterior border of the front pre- 

 sents a well-defined raised margin. The superior border of the 

 orbits is not inflated. The external angle is obtuse and not pro- 

 minent. The eyes are large ; the first article of the antennary 

 peduncle has a projection on its anterior border. 



The chelipeds are large, compressed, and granular ; the left is 

 larger than the right. The hand is as long as the carapax. Its 

 width is greater at its junction with the dactylus than where it 

 articulates with the carpus. The posterior border is pubescent. 

 The posterior part of the superior surface is broadly grooved, and 

 this groove is continued on the propodus. The anterior part of 

 the upper surface presents another slighter groove ; and a broad 

 ridge runs longitudinally along the centre of the same surface. 

 The carpus is shorter than the hand, and its anterior margin is 

 armed with five small teeth. Its upper surface is marked by three 

 longitudinal ridges. The posterior and external borders are di- 

 lated. The anterior angle of the merus is armed with a tooth. 



The ambulatory feet are pubescent, and minutely granulated 

 under the microscope. The third article is compressed ; the fourth 

 and fifth articles are ridged on their upper surfaces, in their long 

 direction. The color is a reddish shade; the chelipeds are more 

 deeply colored than the carapax. The length of the carapax is 

 .019 of an inch. 



MACROURA. 



Palemon Jamaicensis, Olivier. H. Milne-Edwards. Hist. Nat. des Crust., 

 Vol. II. p. 398. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



NOTES ON LINGUAL DENTITION OF CERTAIN SPECIES OF NORTH 

 AMERICAN LAND SHELLS- 



BY THOMAS BLAND AND W. G. BINNEY. 



"We are indebted to Miss Annie E. Law, of Jalapa, Tennessee, 

 and to Mr. Henry Hemphill, of Oakland, California, for the 

 specimens from which we extracted the jaws and lingual mem- 

 branes here described. 



ZONITES LJ3VIGATUS, Pf. 



Jaw as usual in the genus. 



Zonites intertextus, Binney. 



The jaw and lingual membrane are as usual in the genus. 



Zonites demissus, Binney. 



Jaw arched, ends attenuated, pointed; anterior surface smooth, 

 cutting edge with well developed sharp median projection. 



Lingual membrane as usual in the genus. Laterals above 

 eight in number on either side of central line. 



Zonites lasmodon, Phillips. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus. 

 Zonites inteknus, Say. 



The jaw and lingual membrane are those of Zonites (or Hya- 

 lina), and not of Helix, tlius showing the generic position of the 

 species, which is not so well marked by the shell. 



The jaw is slightly arcuate, ends attenuated, pointed ; median 

 beak-like prominence to the cutting edge. 



The lingual membrane is long and narrow. Central teeth 

 large, with a long median cusp. Laterals like the centrals, but 

 bifid, four in number, marginals aculeate. 



Patula strigosa, Gould. 



Jaw long, low, slightly arcuate ; anterior surface smooth except- 

 ing near the lower margin, where there are numerous, crowded, 

 subobsolete ribs, or coarse strise, crenellating the cutting edge. 

 There is a very strong muscular attachment to the upper margin. 



The lingual membrane is as usual in the genus. (See fig. 129 of 

 L. and Fr. W. Shells, I.) The marginal teeth are wide and low, 

 with one inner, long, obtuse, oblique denticle, and several short 

 side blunt denticles, obtusely rounded. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Patula cooperi, W. G. Binn. 



Lingual membrane as in Patula strigosa. 



Patula idaiioensis, Newc. 



The jaw very much resembles in form and in its crenellated 

 cutting edge that of Patula atriatella. (See fig. 141 of L. and 

 Fr. W. Shells, part I.) Its anterior surface has coarse perpendicu- 

 lar stria? or obsolete wrinkles, not well formed ribs. There is a 

 stout membranous attachment to the upper margin. Lingual 

 membrane as in Patula Hemjihilli. (See Am. Journ. of Conch., 

 YI. 247.) 



Patula perspectiva, Say. 



The jaw and lingual membrane are quite like those of P. stria- 

 tella. The ends of the jaw, however, are more squarely truncated, 

 and the stria? are not converging. 



Helix polygyrella, Bland. 



Jaw slightly arcuate, ends but little attenuated, blunt; anterior 

 surface with fifteen broad ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane as in H. auriculata. 



We are indebted to Mr. Harford for the living specimens from 

 which the notes on this species are drawn. 



Helix palliata, Say. 



Jaw short, high ; anterior surface with more than fifteen ribs, 

 denticulating either margin. 



Helix ohstricta, Say. 



Jaw with ten ribs. Lingual membrane as in H. palliata. 



Helix devia, Gld. var. 



This small, doubtful form from Salmon River, Idaho, has the 

 jaw arcuate, ends blunt, with about seven stout ribs denticulating 

 cither margin. The lingual membrane is broad, teeth as usual in 

 the genus, the marginals low, wide, with one oblique, bluntly 

 bifid, inner denticle, and several short, blunt, outer denticles. 



Helix fidelis, Gray. 



In Amer. Journ. Conch., VI. p. 207, pi. ix. fig. 1, we described 

 and figured thejaw as short, high, thick, rough, strongly arcuate, 

 ends attenuated, blunt, cutting edge with a well developed, blunt, 

 median projection, marked with decided longitudinal stria?, which 

 crenellate its margin. We have lately had an opportunity of 

 examining numerous other adult specimens, and find them decid- 




NATURAL SCIENCE'S OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



edly co-state, usually with about six ribs, denticulating either 

 margin. 



Pallifera dorsalis, Binney. 



An opportunity has lately been given us by Mr. H. Prime of 

 examining living specimens from Westchester Co., New York. 

 We find Mr. Morse's description and figure of the jaw to be quite 

 correct, and have no doubt of the genus being distinct from 

 Tebennophorus. The species appears to us well marked also, 

 especially by the great activity of the animal's motions. 



Mr. Prime noticed it climbing on trees, a habit often observed 

 by us in several of our land shells. Thus Helix thyroides in 

 the garden of one of us at Burlington, N. J., constantly climbs 

 the fruit trees, to eat the gum which exudes from the branches. 



Our figure 535, of L. and Fr. W. Shells, part I., is defective. 

 The head does not extend beyond the mantle. See the upper 

 figure in Terrestrial Mollusks, III., pi. lxiii. 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



June 4. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of Twenty-nine species of Unionidse from the 



United States." By Isaac Lea. 



"A Contribution to the Ichthyology of Alaska." By Edw. D. 



Cope. 



Note on Gamasus of the Ox. Prof. Leidy read an extract from 

 a letter from Dr. C. S. Turnbull, in which it was stated that the 

 writer had been misunderstood in relation to the Acarus of the 

 Ox, described in the Proceedings for January 2d. He had seen 

 the cattle killed, and was positive that the mites occupied the 

 position in the ear of the steers while these were alive. Such 

 being the case, the acarus may be viewed as a parasite of the Ox, 

 and may be specifically named Gamasus auris. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan presented some specimens of the common 

 asparagus, and remarked that in consequence of observing last 

 year so many plants that had evidently flowered, producing no 

 seeds, he had this year examined them in a flowering condition 

 and found them perfectly dioecious. Imperfect stamens existed 

 in the female flowers, but they were never polleniferous. An occa- 

 sional gynoecium in the male flower would make a weak attempt 

 to produce a pistil, but no polleniferous flower ever produces a 

 fruit. There was a great difference in the form of the male and 

 female flowers. The former were double the length of the latter, 

 and nearly cylindrical, while the female flower was rather cam- 

 panulate. Other observers had nearly made the discovery of 

 division in this plant. The old " English Botany" of Smith gave 

 it the character of being occasionally imperfect, and the authors 

 of " Deutchland Flora" considered it as occasionally Polygamous. 

 But Mr. M. w y as satisfied from a half day's investigation among 

 many plants that in this region at least the asparagus is never 

 perfect, but truly dioecious. 



He had observed another matter, small, but which might be of 

 importance to systematic botanists, as well as to those engaged in 

 evolutionary studies. One flower had a quad ri fid stigma, and a 

 four-celled ovary. The trinatc type, or its multiple, is so closely 

 associated with the endogenous structure, that he considered this 

 circumstance particularly worthy of note. 



The male flowers seem very attractive to insects, various kinds 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



of which seem to feed on the pollen. The honey bee was a fre- 

 quent visitor. None seemed to he attracted to the female flowers. 

 In the division into separate sexes the plant had gained nothing 

 in the waj* of aid by insect fertilization. Fertilization seemed 

 wholl}- accomplished by the wind. The male flowers are produced 

 in much greater abundance than the female ones. 



Mr. M. added that this discovery had a more than usual practi- 

 cal importance. Many attempts had been made to improve the 

 asparagus, as garden vegetables and the farm cereals had been im- 

 proved ; but it had often been questioned whether these improved 

 forms would reproduce themselves from seed as other garden 

 varieties did. The tendency of thought the few past j'ears had 

 been in the direction of the belief that permanent varieties could 

 be raised, and several improved kinds had been sent out by seeds- 

 men, and were popular to a considerable extent. He said he had 

 himself inclined to this opinion; but this discoveiy of complete 

 dicecism in asparagus, whereby two distinct individual forms were 

 required to produce seed, rendered a true reproduction of one 

 original parent impossible, as the progeny must necessarily par- 

 take of both forms. 



Mr. Meehan further said he had been requested by one of the 

 members, Professor Frazer, to call the attention of the Academy 

 to an orange on the table, which had produced a second smaller 

 fruit Under the rind of the larger one. The orange externally 

 presented nothing unusual, but on being peeled the second one 

 was found of about one-fifth the size of the principal one, of a tur- 

 binate shape, and fitting into the lower larger one as into a cup. 

 This upper secondary orange had the regular colored skin with 

 its endopleura, and the whole inclosed by the regular skin of the 

 primary fruit. He explained that a fruit was formed by the sud- 

 den arrestation of growth in a branch, and what would be under 

 ordinary circumstances an elongated branch, with its several nodes 

 and axillary leaves and buds, is to form a fruit compressed and con- 

 densed, so to speak, into the organized mass we call a fruit. In 

 the orange before us, the central axis, after having had its elon- 

 gating direction arrested, made another feeble departure onward, 

 and the small orange was the result. These sudden accelerations 

 of a nearly arrested growth are, though not common, sometimes 

 seen in fruits. They have been most frequently seen in the pear. 

 Here the renewed growth of the central axis bursts through the 

 primary cuticle as seen by the manner in which it is drawn up 

 with the secondary growth. He believed he had seen an instance 

 of a pear making three series of growths in one fruit. In the 

 larch it was quite common to find a branch arrested in its de- 

 velopment to form a cone, push out again into vigorous growth 

 at the apex, after resting as it were for nearly a month, while the 

 cone was forming. These larch cones, with branches growing as 

 it were completely through them, are very often seen. Aurantia- 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ceous plants seem addicted to these irregularities. It was not 

 unusual to find several young seedling plants spring from one 

 orange seed. 



June 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty -five members present. 



Prof. Cope offered some remarks on the discoveries recently 

 made by Prof. Marsh as to the structure and characters of the 

 Pythonomorpha, based especially on material recently obtained 

 by him in Kansas. As the writer had recently passed in review 

 much similar material, he was much interested in Prof. Marsh's 

 conclusions. These, he said, were of importance. In the first 

 place, he had ascertained that what was formerly supposed to be 

 the inner side of the quadrate bone was the outer side, a conclu- 

 sion Prof. Cope thought entirely consistent with the other known 

 relations of the parts. 



Secondly. He had discovered the stapes, and had entirely con- 

 firmed the opinion of the speaker, which Prof. Marsh had appa- 

 rently overlooked. This was stated as follows : l the quadrate 

 "is characterized by the presence of an oval pit. . . . Its use 

 is uncertain, but there is some probability that it received the 

 extremity of an osseous or cartilaginous styloid stapes. A groove 

 on the under side of the suspensorium would accommodate such 

 a rod, and in a position nearly similar to that which it occupies 

 in many of the Ophidia." It is in precisely this position that 

 Prof. Marsh is so fortunate as to have discovered it. 



Thirdly. Prof. Marsh believes that he has found the columella. 

 I have supposed it to be wanting, from the absence of its usual 

 points of attachment on the parietal and pterygoid bones. It 

 remains to compare the bone found by Prof. Marsh with ali- and 

 orbito- sphenoid and ethmoid ossifications found in rnan}^ sau- 

 rian s. 



Fourthly. Prof. Marsh has observed the parieto-quadrate arch 

 described by the speaker, and makes the interesting observation 

 that it is formed of three elements, the median connecting the 

 parietal with the opisthotic. This piece, he says, is " apparently 

 the squamosal ;" as the latter bone completes the zygomatic arch, 

 it cannot 'occup} r a position in the parieto- squamosal, unless it 

 sends a branch in that direction. 



Fifthly. He discovers the malar arch, proving it to be incom- 

 plete and supported by the postfrontal bone. Prof. Marsh also 

 observes an ossification in the glenoid cavity of the opisthotic, 

 which he regards as the pterotic (of " Huxle}-," which should be 



1 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, 18G9, p. 180. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Parker), an identification which cannot probably be maintained. 

 The connections of the pterotic, where present, are very different. 

 The bone in question is present in Edestosauriis tortor, Cope. 



Sixthly. Prof. Marsh completes almost entirely our knowledge 

 of the anterior limbs. The previous descriptions of these mem- 

 bers in Clidastes propython, Cope, Holcodus ictericus, Cope, 

 and other species, had left the number of phalanges and their 

 relative positions, as well as those of the carpals, uncertain ; these 

 points are now happily supplied by Prof. Marsh's important re- 

 searches. 



Seventhly. He has done much for the pelvic arch and hind 

 limbs. He was the first to announce the existence of both, and 

 actually described the pelvis of Edestosaurus dispar; the speaker, 

 however, first described the hind limb in Liodon c?'assa)-tus and 

 L. dyspelor, Cope. Prof. Marsh is in error when he says the 

 " absence of these extremities in the Pythonomorpha was consid- 

 ered satisfactorily established." I had never stated that they 

 were certainly absent, and the last time I wrote observed that this 

 order " possessed an anterior pair only, or with the posterior pair 

 so reduced as to have been insignificant." 1 They appear, ac- 

 cording to Marsh, to have been relatively small in some of the genera. 

 In Liodon dyspelor, Cope, the anterior are the smaller. Prof. 

 Marsh lays students under especial obligation for his determina- 

 tions of the pelvic elements and the excellent figures of all the 

 parts connected with the support of the hind limb. His figure of 

 the fore limb is also highly important, as it will be difficult soon 

 to duplicate his beautifully complete specimen. 



In subsequent pages there are six additional species described, 

 bringing up the number from the Kansas Cretaceous to twenty- 

 three. Two new genera are proposed, viz., Lestosaurus for those 

 previously referred by myself to Holcodus, Gibbes, and Rhino- 

 saurus for species allied or belonging to Liodon. As to the for- 

 mer, it is no doubt a well-marked genus, and I am willing to 

 believe Prof. Marsh's opinion, that it will not include Gibbes' Hol- 

 codus acutidens, will turn out to be well founded ; but there is, 

 on the other hand, insufficient evidence to show that it is not 

 Platecarpus, Cope. If Liodon curtirostris be referred to it, it 

 will very probably prove to be Platecm-pus, as that species pre- 

 sents palatine teeth, much as in P. tympaniticus, and the pleuro- 

 dont character is not wanting in some of the other species. Rlii- 

 nosaurus includes such species as Liodon proriger, Cope. As 

 the name has been used two or three times before, it may be al- 

 tered to Rhamphosaurus, but I have always had doubts that the 

 conic projecting snout would distinguish the species generically 

 from the true Liodon, with which it agrees in dentition. The 

 type of Liodon, L. anceps ord., is, however, very little known. 



, ' Hayden, Geol. Survey of Wyoming, etc., 1870, p. 385. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Remarks on Mastodon from New Mexico. Prof. Leidy directed 

 attention to portions of a lower jaw of Mastodon recently received 

 for examination from the Smithsonian Institution. The speci- 

 mens were from New Mexico, and were presented to the latter by 

 the Hon. W. F. M. Arny. One of the specimens contains a molar 

 resembling that from California, described before the Academy, 

 and supposed to belong to Mastodon obscurus, which was origin- 

 ally named from a tooth said to have been derived from the mio- 

 cene formation of Maiyland. The other fragment is part of the 

 symphysial prolongation of the jaw containing portions of tusks. 

 This resembles in its form and proportions the corresponding part 

 of the European Mastodon angustidens. These and other speci- 

 mens, including the portion of an upper tusk, having a band of 

 enamel, from California, described before the Academy under the 

 name of Mastodon Sheppardi, lead to the inference, that a species 

 resembling Mastodon angustidens, inhabited North America during 

 the middle tertiary period. The late Dr. Falconer states that he 

 saw at Genoa the cast of a lower jaw of a Ma^odon from Mexico, 

 with an enormous beak containing a large lower incisor. The 

 animal to which it belonged was named Mhynchotherium. This 

 perhaps maybe the same as the species named Mastodon obscunts. 

 A full description of the New Mexican and Californian fossils, 

 with plates, will shortly be given. 



June 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 

 The death of Dr. Wm. Stimpson was announced. 



June 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The death of John Farnum, Maj. Sydney S. Lyon, John GL 

 Moore, and T. Clarkson Taylor, was announced. 



On favorable report of Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



ON NEW CALIFORNIAN PULMONATA, ETC. 

 BY J. G. COOPER, M.D. 



ALEXIA SETIFER. Cp. n. s. PI. 3, fig. A. 1 to 6. 



Sp. en. Alexia "A. myosotis" persimilis, seel testa, juniore retis bre- 

 vissimis decidnis munita, liuea spirali ante sutura sitis. Var. tenuis, 

 elongata, pallida. 



Lat. 0.08 ad 0.14, alt. 0.30 ad 0.40 partes cent, pollici. 



Shell very similar to A. myosotis (of the northern Atlantic 

 States), but the young provided with short deciduous bristles, 

 arranged in a spiral line just in front of the suture. 



Form varying from ovate to lanceolate, translucent, smooth, 

 pale to dark corneous, with a purple tinge, often marked with nu- 

 merous longitudinal paler stripes; apex short, or rather length- 

 ened and subacute ; suture usually distinct, whorls six or seven, 

 the nuclear three or four, very narrow, and nearly alike, with the 

 apex inverted or planorvoid ; the last elliptic-ovate, and forming 

 nearly three-fourths of the total length ; aperture nearly two- 

 thirds of total length ; peristome thickened and projecting hori- 

 zontally, especially in front, appressed to columella, leaving a 

 slight umbilical fissure open, then blending with a strong plait 

 which winds obliquety inward ; parietal wall with a white trans- 

 verse flat denticle near its middle, and usually a small tubercle 

 above it, making the mouth three-toothed on the inner side. 



Young shell showing the bristles on about three whorls, the 

 first two or three being without them, and losing them by wearing 

 off after attaining half its growth. 



The variety tenuis is slender, elongated, shell usually thinner 

 and paler, sometimes amber-3 T ellow. Many of the more robust 

 form are, however, fully as thin and pale. 



Animal yellowish-white, translucent ; eyes black ; tentacles trans- 

 parent, faintly wrinkled, muzzle strongly wrinkled transversely. 



This species seems chiefly characterized by the bristles of the 

 young shell, but these may exist in some other species, being easily 

 overlooked, or rubbed off in cleaning the shell, which is often 

 covered with adhesive mud. 



The usual form of the adult differs much from the figure given 

 by Binney of u A. myosotis" more resembling other European 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



species. The variety tenuis, however, is very similar to that of . 

 Binney and Tryon. The figures show the varieties of form and 

 color met with here, but scarcely two specimens are exactly alike, 

 and some adult shells are as ventricose as the young one figured. 



I found this species exceedingly numerous on the stony shore 

 of a tide-water creek within the limits of San Francisco, but onlv 

 for a distance of about ten rods, where a rocky point comes to the 

 shore, though a few can be found for half a mile on loose stones 

 and timbers, crawling under the stones in great numbers when 

 the tide is out long. They look so similar to the buds of the 

 Salicornia which grows about the spot that they may easily be 

 overlooked by enemies when crawling among it. They creep 

 rather rapidly by a steady gliding motion, like the other pulmo- 

 nates, and live for a week or more in a damp vial, though killed 

 quickly by immersion in fresh watei. 



Though so numerous that several hundred may be scraped oil' 

 from the bottom of a small stone, it is strange that this shell has 

 escaped the notice of a host of collectors for more than twenty 

 years, though many of them must have passed within a few yards 

 of the spot, as it is close to the old southern entrance to the city 

 by land. This suggests that it may have been introduced from 

 China on the bottoms of fishing-boats, or as ova in damp nets or 

 otherwise, especially as the Chinese have always made the creek 

 a fishing station, and cultivate the low land along its shores. It 

 is, however, just as likely to be native, and to have been over- 

 looked on account of the limited and rather inaccessible locality 

 it inhabits. Until it is proved that these delicate aquatic mol- 

 lusca can be transported from one country to another by the ways 

 of commerce, it is better to consider them indigenous. I may be 

 able to find them in other similar localities out of the way of 

 foreign vessels. 



It is almost as probable that the Assiminea, which is equally 

 numerous in the same spot, was introduced in the same way, though 

 that is probably the same as found in other similar creeks about 

 the bay. 1 



1 Note on "A myosotis' n of IT. S. Atlantic Coast. The variations of the 

 Pacific shell suggest that the form figured by Binney is only the northern 

 attenuated form of what may occur farther south more fully developed as 

 " Leuconia n Sayii (Kuster sp.), which, according to Jay's catalogue, is 

 found in New Jersey. Conrad's and De Kay's descriptions of "borealis" 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 145 



I will probably be able to make explorations sufficient to deter- 

 mine most of these doubtful points relating to this and many 

 other species, before the publication of the Conchology of Cali- 

 fornia by the Geological Survey. 



LIMAX (AMALIA) HEWSTONI. Cp. n. s. PI. 3, Pig. B. 1 to 5. 



Sp. ch. Limax "Z. Soicerbii n similis, dorso postice valde carinato et 

 altiore ; clypeo granulatim rugoso, et snlco subelliptico super spiraculo 

 submediano ; colore ex brunneo nigrescens vel supra nigcrrima, later- 

 ibus pallidioribus, disco motivo infra albescens. 



Long, circa duo polliceo, alt. corporis bis major quam lat. disci motivi. 

 Testa oblongo-ovalis, \ poll. 



Similar to L. Sowerbii (of England), the back being strongly 

 carinate even when fully extended, and higher than the front of 

 body ; shield granulate-rugose, and with a groove, sub-elliptic in 

 outline, above the level of the spiracle, which is just behind the 

 middle ; color blackish-brown, or deep black above, the sides paler, 

 the locomotive disk beneath whitish. 



Length about two inches or less, height of body twice the width 

 of foot. Shell oblong-oval, \ inch long. Its other characters 

 agree with those common to most of the subgenera Amalia and 

 Eulimax. The figures best show the comparative points. 



I have named this species in compliment to Dr. George Hew- 

 ston, of this cit}^, who has made many interesting observations on 

 the habits of the species in his garden. 



It is, I believe, the first "Amalia" found in the United States, 

 native or naturalized. In the remarkable groove on the shield it 

 differs from any I find described, but, as this is not apparently 

 connected with any organic difference, it seems merely a specific 



indicate varieties like ours but not described by Binney, while Say's " tur- 

 ritus," is like the young. 



Binney' s figure of the animal of " Tralia," from Charleston, is so much 

 like ours, that it seems probable that it may also be a more southern develop- 

 ment of the Alexia, while his " T. pusilla" from Florida, looks very like 

 some forms of our A. setifer, the revolving lines and labial denticles being, 

 perhaps, more perfect characteristics not found far north. Melampus biden- 

 tatus presents similar variations with a like geographical range. Eastern 

 conchologists may decide whether it is not more likely that the southern 

 shell extends north under a less perfect form, than that the northern shell 

 has come from Europe, and also which of the names quoted is prior, if it is 

 distinguished from the latter. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



character. It does not even coincide with the outline of the at- 

 tached portion, or with the shell, and, though general, is in some 

 so faint as to be scarcely visible. 



The L. fuliginosus, Gld., seems very similar, and might pass 

 for the same, though described as from " New Zealand," but has 

 ferruginous tentacles. 



It is barely possible that this species was introduced from China 

 or elsewhere, as I have not met with it beyond the vicinity of San 

 Francisco, but it is so exceedingly numerous in every garden here 

 that it seems indigenous. It is found in drier places than our 

 others, and is active all summer in moist shady places. I find 

 none like it described from Asia or Europe. 



LIMAX (EULIMAX) CAMPESTKIS, Binney. 

 Var. Occidentals. PI. 3, fig. C. 1 to 5. 



This, the only indigenous eastern species, has not been before 

 announced from west of the Rocky Mountains, and I, therefore, 

 give a figure of the California form which appears rather more 

 robust than the eastern. It presents the same range of colors, 

 from amber-brown to black, being paler when it first emerges from 

 its retreat in the dry season. I have found it numerous at San 

 Francisco and Santa Cruz, at Clear Lake, Alta, 3625 ft. elev. on 

 west slope of the Sierra Nevada, and Truckee, 5866 ft. high on the 

 east slope, besides observing probably the same at points near 

 lats. 31 and 39 in the valleys. It has not been noticed in 

 Oregon. 



ARIOLIMAX CALIFOENICUS. Cp. n. s. ? PI. 3, fig. D. 1, 2, 3. 



Sp. en. A. forma, colore, etc. "A. Columbiano 1 " 1 similis, sect sulcis 

 dorsalibus multo frequentioribus ; srcpe bis nuniero, et transverse reti- 

 culatis. 



Resembling A. Columbianus in form and color, but with the 

 dorsal grooves much more numerous (26 to 36), often twice as 

 many, and the connecting reticulations transverse. 



The figures given of portions of this form, taken from life, show 

 the remarkable dissimilarity in the reticulations of the dorsal 

 region, and, did I not find considerable variation among them, I 

 would consider it certainly a different species. 



The black form next mentioned agrees with the Oregon animal 

 in this character as shown in E. Young and adult of the yellow 

 form, from one to six inches long, all show the same peculiarity, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 141 



and it may be only an adaptation to a drier climate. It is quite 

 well shown even in alcoholic specimens, and I am surprised that 

 it has not before been mentioned. Some parts of Mr. W. G. Bin- 

 ney's description may, however, be taken from this variety. The 

 following notes have not before been published, and are all taken 

 from the southern form. Mr. Toy has brought it from the Sierra 

 Nevada, lat. 39, alt. about 3500 feet, but I have not heard of it 

 elsewhere out of the coast range. 



The locomotive disk, anal and generative orifices are like those 

 of Limax. Fig. D, 3, shows the latter as preserved in alcohol in 

 a specimen taken in copulo. I may be able to describe them more 

 fulh' from fresh ones. The mantle is minutely granulated, which 

 may have led Mr. Tryon to place it in Amalia. The dorsal- 

 grooves are unicolor with the rest of body, but those of the upper 

 margin of foot are colored brown (sometimes very pale), the color 

 permanent in alcohol, and the stripes wider at every fourth or 

 fifth, like the grooves. The longitudinal division of the foot be- 

 neath is very faintly perceptible. 



The young, just hatched, is pale^ellowish, with pellucid whitish 

 spots, and when an inch and a half long is colored like adult, 

 while the shell is perceptible through the thin shield. This can 

 also be seen by looking into the grisacle of the adult when fully 

 expanded. 



Eggs are laid from April 1st to June, and vary in size from 0.44 

 X 0.36 to 0.35 x 0.26 inch, (probably laid by slugs of various 

 ages). They have a shelly but tough envelope, and, after they are 

 laid, the shell is often entirely wanting in the animal, having ap- 

 parently been absorbed to form the egg-shells ! This may explain 

 the absence or fragmentary state of the shell in some species re- 

 ferred to Avion. 



ARIOLIMAX NIGER. Cp. n. s. PL 3, fig. E. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Sp. ch. A. forma, testa, et maxilla ".4. ColumMano" per similio, sed 

 minor, robustior, colore nigro, tentaculis et disco motivo infra pallidi- 

 oribus, maxilla costulis circa xx, dorso non carinato. 



Long. ii. et dim. poll. (65 millimetres.) 



In form, shell and jaw, it resembles A. Columbianus, but is 

 smaller, back rounder, more robust, black, with tentacles and loco- 

 motive disk beneath paler, its jaw with only about 20 riblets. 

 Length 2^ inches. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dr. Gould mentions a "small specimen uniformly slate color" 

 (probabty from alcohol), which indicates that this is also found in 

 Oregon. A very young one from east of S. F. Bay has the shield 

 and back brownish with small irregular black spots, and no cari- 

 nation perceptible as it is in the yellow species, which shows it 

 stronger in the young than the adult. The dorsal grooves agree- 

 ing with those of the Oregon form suggested that it was only a 

 southern dwarfed variety of that, which is often mottled with 

 blackish ; but Dr. Gould's specimen was also small, and may in- 

 deed have been collected in California. Here I find none inter- 

 mediate between this and the yellow variet}^. The color and dorsal 

 grooves agreeing with Limax Hewstoni also suggested hybridity, 

 but I have never found this in the same localities with that species. 

 We thus have three very distinct species often equally black, but 

 the onl} r common cause I can guess for this similarity is possibty 

 more nocturnal habits than in the others. The comparative 

 rarity of this form may be a consequence of more thorough con- 

 cealment in the daj'time. I found them copulating in December, 

 and the young was found in February probably recently hatched. 



ARION? ANDERSONII. Cp. n. s. PI. 3, fig. F. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 



Sp. en. A, " Arioni foliato" similis, sed niulto minor, spiraculo prope 

 medio clypei forte granulato rugosi, testa interna valida ; cauda acuta. 

 Foramen generativuni ut in Ariolimax et Limax Ilewstoni situm. 



Long. ii. et dim. poll. ; lat. dioci motivi plus quam dimidium alt. cor- 

 poris. 



Similar to " Arionfoliolatus," but much smaller, the spiracle close 

 to middle of shield, which is strongly granulae-rugose ; a strong 

 internal shell ; tail acute. Length two and a half inches ; breadth 

 of locomotive disk more than half the height of body. Form 

 slender, gradually tapering from the shield backwards to an acute 

 point; shield large, covering one-third of back, distinctly granular, 

 the spiracle not perceptibly anterior to middle, except when the 

 animal is fully extended ; upper tentacles little over one-fifth of 

 the length of mantle, which is free in front nearly as far back as 

 the spiracle, and a narrow edge free behind ; dorsal furrows about 

 18, distinctly darker colored; foot slightly projecting at sides, the 

 lateral bands distinctly separated beneath and marked by muscu- 

 lar fibres running obliquely backward and outward on the under 

 surface. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Color. Reddish-gray, the body somewhat clouded with black, 

 the shield paler, clouded, or more usually with a dark baud ou 

 each side above the spiracle, converging in an elliptic form ; a pale 

 dorsal streak. Head uniform pale-brown, tentacles darker. Foot 

 and often the mantle tinged with olive. 



Shell large and thick, the nucleus near posterior left corner ob- 

 tusely rhomboidal, concave beneath. Length about 0.14, breadth 

 0.06 inch. 1 Jaw arcuate, wider near middle, with 20 to 30 riblets 

 denticulating the lower margin. 



Hab. Near south and east sides of San Francisco Bay north- 

 ward to Santa Cruz. It is confined to well wooded hills or damp 

 river-banks, being less able to bear heat tind dryness than our 

 other sluos. I have named it for Dr. C. L. Anderson of the latter 

 place, a zealous naturalist, who has much aided me by collecting 

 this and other species of mollusca. 



This species combines the form and spiracle of Avion with the 

 shell and jaw of Aviolimax, making the generic distinctness of the 

 two forms doubtful, and consequently connecting Avion still more 

 closely with Limax. The minute caudal mucous gland and acute 

 tail of this species also approach the character of Limax, and 

 make the modern separation of these genera into separate families 

 still more unnatural. 



The rule adopted by Agassiz of founding family divisions on 

 modifications of the general forms, and geneva only on those of 

 special organs, will apply well in the case of these animals. But 

 a difficulty arises here in the disagreement of this species in several 

 points from the latest definition of the genus Ay-ion, in those cha- 

 racters above indicated as connecting it with Aviolimax. Still, as 

 Avion is the older genus, it would seem more proper to extend its 

 generic limits to include a more developed shell and jaw than 

 usual, than to make Aviolimax include a species as different from 

 the type in form, position of spiracle, and structure of locomotive 

 disk. The form of the caudal termination seems like that of 

 Avion hovtensis. Orifice of generative organs about half-way be- 

 tween tentacle and shield as in Limax, etc. 



In colors, this species is so similar to " A. foliolaius," Gld., that 



1 The shell represented in the figures is from a larger specimen than the^ 

 animal figure. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



it might be considered identical if not for the important differ- 

 ences indicated in the diagnosis. 



Mr. Binney places that species without hesitation in subgenus 

 Lochea, which has the shell represented by calcareous granules 

 only, but remarks that he had not examined the jaw or granules, 

 and, as the types are probably still preserved in the Smithsonian 

 Institution, this important omission may yet be attended to. 



Dr. Gould saj's, in Binney's Terr. Moll. ii. p. 31, " That this 

 animal belongs to the genus Avion there can be little doubt, from 

 the peculiar structure of the tail, as represented in Mr. Drayton's 

 figure, and from the anterior position of the respiratory orifice." 

 He did not examine any specimens with reference to the shell, but 

 figures the dorsal areolae as peculiarly granulated and indented, an 

 appearance apparently caused, as in our species, when in alcohol, 

 by minute reticular subdivisions. The figure represents the tail 

 as acute, though Dr. Gould describes it as " somewhat truncated 

 at tips exhibiting a conspicuous pit which was probably occupied 

 by a mucous gland." As he was no't aware of the existence of 

 this gland in his " Limax" Columbianics, he may have examined 

 specimens of the latter when partly or wholly destitute of the 

 shell (as described by me), and confounded them with Drajton's 

 figure, as alcoholic specimens do not retain all the specific charac- 

 ters. The great similarity of the figure published as of the Avion 

 to that of L. Columbianus makes it probable that some such con- 

 fusion has occurred, the only essential difference being the posi- 

 tion of the spiracle. 



Mr. Try on places this species in Aviolimax, but on what grounds 

 is not stated. This would be justified by the discovery of the 

 shell and generative orifice in alcoholic specimens, but is rendered 

 doubtful by other considerations above pointed out. 



Mr. Drayton's original figure probably represented A. Andev- 

 sonii, though Dr. Gould's description does not agree wholly 

 with it. 



LISINOE DIABLOENSIS. Cp. n. s. PI. 3, fig. G. 1, 2, 3, 4. 

 Helix (indet., near Traskii), Cp., Proc. Cal. Acad. Sc. III. 2G0, 18CG ; 



332, 18G7 (as perhaps a hybrid). 

 II. Diabloensis, Cp., Aruer. Journ. Conch. IV. 221, 1868. 

 Ariontu? Diabloensis, Cp., ibid. V. 205, 207, 1870. 



Sp. ch. Testa depresso-turbinata, infra paullo concava, anfr. vi et dim. 

 ad vii. umbilico amplo, peristomate albo, expanso, satis incrassato, su- 

 perne decline ; colore ex luteo brunnea, intus purpurascens, zona fusco- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



brunnea supra peripheriam, luteo, infra marginata, aufr. tribus visa, 

 regio inferior pallidior ; epidermide nitente, tenuissime malleata rugosa, 

 lincse incrementi sulcis tenuibus sa?pe oblique insculptis ; ruga? obscurse 

 circum umbilicum volventes. Testa junior non subangulata. 

 Diam. maj. 0.75 ad 0.95 ; niin. 0.65 ad 0.80 ; alt. 0.40 ad 0.55 ; axis spirse 

 0.30 ad 0.45 cent. poll. 



Animal pallide griseo-purpurascens, corpore semicylindrico, bis 

 lat. testae requans longitudine, tota superficies tuberculis parvis 

 ellipticis induta; tentacular oculifene tertiam partum long, cor- 

 poris sequantes ; pes postice brevis, cuneatus, alt. corporis latior, 

 margine crenato-incisa. Per testa visiente, partes molles nigrse 

 perspicuse sunt. 



Hah. Montibus " Diablo" California? prope San Francisco, alti- 

 tudine circum 2500 ped. supra mare, inter sylvis quercinis et cu- 

 pressinis, et prope " San Luis Obispo." 



Shell depressed-turbinate, below a little concave, whorls 6|-to 7, 

 umbilicus large, peristome white, expanded, somewhat thickened, 

 above descending ; color j^ellowish-brown, paler beneath, with a 

 dark-brown zone above the peripheiy, margined below by yellow- 

 ish, visible on three whorls; epidermis shining, finely rugose- 

 malleate, lines of growth often obliquely cut by delicate grooves, 

 obscure revolving ridges around umbilical region. Young shell 

 not subangled. 



Animal pale purplish-gray, semicylindrical, its length twice the 

 breadth of shell, its whole surface covered with small elliptic 

 tubercles ; eye-bearing tentacles one-third the length of body ; foot 

 short behind, wedge-shaped, broader than height of body, its 

 margin crenately incised. Intestines seen through upper whorls. 



Hah. " Cedar Mountain," 25 miles southeast of Mount Diablo, 

 California, among oaks and cypresses, thence south to San Luis 

 Obispo, 200 miles. 



The first specimen obtained by Prof. Brewer, " east of Mount 

 Diablo," was too imperfect for me to decide on its characteristics, 

 and the sculpture, somewhat resembling that of the Arionta group, 

 led me to refer it doubtfully to that, while the form and color sug- 

 gested hybridity between A. ramentosa and the nearest of the 

 Lysinoe groups, either L. mormonum or Traskii, neither of which 

 were known, however, to exist within 90 miles of ramentosa. 

 Fresh specimens, lately discovered by the industrious Dr. Yates, 

 among the cypresses of Cedar Mountain, though much smaller, 




152 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



indicate its near alliance with L. TrasHi, differing as much, how- 

 ever, as several others of the allied species. 



Specimens said to come from San Luis Obispo appear to be the 

 same, and are the ones referred to by me in the Cal. Acad. Proc. 

 III. 332, as combining characters of ramentosa and Dupeiithouarsi. 

 I am, however, becoming more and more of the opinion that 

 natural hybrids are so very scarce that shells presenting interme- 

 diate characters are to be considered rather varieties in which 

 local proximity and exposure to the same influences produce 

 changes simulating those of neighboring geographical groups, as 

 before remarked, concerning some of our most northern and 

 southern forms. Thus we have in this the nearest approach to the 

 sculpture of the Ariontas to be found in our Lysinoes, as it exists 

 on a belt next adjoining the centre of development of the sculp- 

 tured group. L. Dupelitliouar&i often shows a little of the same 

 sculpture. 



This form probably occupies the whole of the gap of 160 miles 

 south of Mount Diablo, mentioned previously by me as destitute 

 of any known species, but at an elevation seldom visited by col- 

 lectors, though the young specimens, also found by Dr. Yates, " at 

 the crossing of the Salinas River above Soledad," indicate that it, 

 like others, may follow down the river banks into the vallej^s. 

 These have a smaller umbilicus and flatter apex. About two hun- 

 dred miles southward, the Mount Diablo range combines with the 

 coast range near San Luis Obispo, the Salinas Valley lying be- 

 tween them. 



Genus ASSIMINEA, Leach. 



Although not a pulmonate mollusc, the species to be described 

 forms a link between these and the branchiate shells, in its power 

 of existing for several days, and even of crawling actively about 

 in a slightly damp bottle, showing nearly as much vitality out of 

 water as the Alexia with which it lives, while it cannot exist in 

 fresh water. It is probable that, like Amjndlaria, etc., it possesses 

 a reservoir for moistening its gills, or a sort of imperfect lung. 

 Its subterminal tentacular eyes are also similar to those of the 

 Pujnllse, with only one pair of tentacles. 



It will be lucky if some hair-splitting microscopist, ambitious 

 of affixing his name to the species of others, does not find a slight 

 difference in the lingual asperities on which to found a "new 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



genus," although the genus is now admitted to extend from Eng- 

 land to India. 



ASSIMINEA CALIFORNIA, n. s. ? PI. 3, Fig. H. 1, 2, 3. 

 ? Hydrobia Califomica, Tryon, Amor. Jouru. of Conch. I. 221, pi. 22, f. 11. 



Sp. en. A. testa parva, imperforata, nitente, sutura bene impressa anfr. 

 vi. convexis, cito crescentibus, ult. tumido ; peristomate acuto, non 

 continno, callo tenui parietali ; colore corueo, ex nigro-brunnescente, 

 operculo pertenui, transluceiite, aufr. ii. et dim. 



Long. 0.14, lat. 0.07, long, spirse 0.025, aperturse 0.06, div. 50. 



Animal albescens, tentaculis et caput antice nigro tincto, regio 

 inter tentaculis rufus. Longitudo bis major quam long, testse. 



Habitat. In ripas aquarum salinarum extrinsii San Francisco, 

 California, inter lapidas, Salicornia, etc. 



Shell very small, imperforate, shining, whorls 6, rapidly in- 

 creasing, rather convex, suture well impressed, body-whorl swol- 

 len, peristome not continuous, acute, with a slight parietal callus. 

 Color dark horn-brown. Operculum very thin, colorless, its whorls 

 2^. Animal whitish, tentacles and muzzle tinged with black, a 

 rufous patch on top of head. When extended it is about twice as 

 long as shell, the foot ovate. 



Inhabits brackish creeks near mouth of San Francisco Ba}-, and 

 found in great numbers within the city limits under small stones 

 with Alexia. The animal crawls actively by a jerking motion, 

 alternately projecting the foot in front of the muzzle and then 

 drawing the shell forward, so as to show the two positions repre- 

 sented in the plate. 



The shell closely resembles Hydrobia Califomica, which is found 

 in similar places at Oakland and Martinez, but, it being rather 

 scarce there, I have not been able to obtain living specimens yet 

 for comparison. Mr. Tryon's description and the dimensions 

 given agree exactby, but Oakland specimens of the shell are thicker, 

 the whorls a little shouldered, and the umbilical region pitted, 

 perhaps from stronger growth. Mr. Tryon's figure, however, does 

 not agree with the dimensions. 



It differs from AJ subrotundata, Carpenter, of the Str. of Fuca, 

 in all its dimensions and in size. (See Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.,. 

 1865, p. 28.) Several of our fresh-water Hydrobrinse have been 

 confounded with H. Califomica. 



I believe this is the first of the genus determined to inhabit the 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



United States, as Carpenter's was without the animal, and the 

 genus is only mentioned in one Atlantic coast list, as probably 

 found on Long Island, N. Y., by Sanderson Smith, in the Annals 

 N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. 1810, though it is suspected that some of 

 the New England " Bissoids" are congeneric. 1 



I have used the specific name Califomica as not likely to lead 

 to any confusion, even if Mr. Tryon's species proves to be a true 

 Hydrobid, and thus of another family. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE. 



A. Alexia setifer. 1, 2. The animals crawling, with shells of different 

 forms and color. 3. Most usual form of the shell, showing the stripes often 

 observed. 4. Var. tenuis, an extreme form. 5. Young, without upper 

 tooth, a form of the shell occasionally found in the adult. 6. Young of 

 very thin variety, showing revolving line of setse. 



B. Limax Heiostoni. Natural size. 2. Caudal extremity. 3. Shell. 4. 

 Jaw magnified. 5. Shield from above showing groove, and generative 

 organ anterior to it. 



C. Limax campestris, var. 2, 3, 4, as in B. 



D. Ariolimax var. Calif omicus. Natural size of parts. 1. Lateral view 

 of furrows behind shield. 2. Caudal extremity, showing furrows, mucous 

 pore and color of foot. 3. Anterior parts from alcohol, showing generative 

 organs. 



E. Ariolimax iiiger. Natural size. 2, 3, 4, as in B. 



F. Avion Andersonii. Natural size. 2, 3, 4, as in B. 5. Lower sur- 

 face of locomotive disk, from life. 



G. Lysinoe Diabloensis. 2. Style of sculpture above. 3. Shell from 

 beneath. 4. Front view of shell. 5. Lower surface of locomotive disk, 

 showing crenations. 



H. Assiminea Califomica, magnified. 2, 3, as in A. 



' Mr. Smith's name " Coecum Cooperi," being pre-occupied for a differ- 

 ent Californian species, I may here return the compliment he offers to the 

 memory of my father by naming it Ccecum SiiiTnu, Cooper. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWENTY-NINE SPECIES OF UNIONID.E FROM THE 



UNITED STATES. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 

 Unio Tellicoensis. 



Testa Ifevi, subtrangulari, subinflata, inasquilaterali, postice 

 obtuse angulari, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 parum crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide cro- 

 cata, polita ; parum radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, cre- 

 nulatis, conicis ; lateralibus curtis, subcrassis subrectisque ; mar- 

 garita salrnonis colore tincta et valde iridescente. 



Eab. Tellico River, Monroe Co., E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law. 



Unio Conasaugaensis. 



Testa lsevi, suboblonga, subinflata, inrequilaterali, postice sub- 

 biangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis percrassis, antice crassiori- 

 bus ; natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide rufo-fusca, eradiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, subcompressis crenulatisque ; 

 lateralibus curtis, crassis, obliquis rectisque ; margarita alba et 

 aliquanto iridescente. 



Eab. Conasauga Creek, Monroe Co., E. Tenn. Miss A. E. 

 Law. 



Unio lenticularis. 



Testa laevi, subrotunda, compressa, lenticulari; subaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse biangulari, antice rotunda ; valvulis- subtenuibus, 

 antice crassioribus; natibus prominulis; epidermide vel tenebroso- 

 fusca vel luteo-fusca, obsolete radiata; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, compressis crenulatisque; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis, 

 corrugatis subcurvatisque ; margarita albida et iridescente. 



Eab. Tellico River, Monroe Co., E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law. 



Unio Andersonensis. 



Testa laevi, triangulari, inflata, ad latere planulata, valde 

 insequilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice oblique rotundata; 

 valvulis percrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus valde elevatis, 

 tumidis recurvatisque ; epidermide vel luteola vel fusca, obsolete 

 radiata; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, crenulatis, conicis; late- 

 ralibus crassis, curtis subcurvisque ; margarita argentea et irides- 

 cente. 



Eab. Holston River and Clinch River, Anderson Co., E. Tenn. 

 Miss A. E. Law. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Unio flavidus. 



Testa lsevi, triangulari, subinflata, ad latere planulata, insequi- 

 laterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis 

 subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus proruinentibus, recurvatis, 

 ad apices minute undulatis ; epidermide flavida, radiis interruptis; 

 dentibus cardinalibus parvis corrugatisque ; lateralibus curtis, 

 subcrassis subcurvisque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. Clinch River, Anderson Co., E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law. 



Unio pauciplicatus. 



Testa plicata, subrotunda, ventricosa, valde ina?quilaterali, 

 postice carinata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus prominentibus, tumidis, recurvatis, ad apices 

 minute undulatis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus crassis, elevatis, sulcatis crenulatisque; lateralibus 

 longis, lamellatis, corrugatis curvisque ; margarita argentea et 

 valde iridescente. 



Hab. Austin, Texas. Prof. C. G. Forskey, Civil Engineer. 



Unio vesicularis. 



Testa lrevi, elliptica, inflata, valde inaequilaterali, postice et 

 antice rotundata, valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus; na- 

 tibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso oliva, obsolete radiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus parvis, sulcatis, in utroque valvulo duplici- 

 bus ; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita 

 albida et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Lake Ocheechobee, Florida. Dr. Budd and C. M. 

 Wheatley. 



Unio conspicuus. 



Testa lsevi, elliptica, subinflata, intequilaterali, postice obtuse 

 angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus ; 

 natibus prominulis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, 

 perradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, crenulatis, com- 

 presso-conicis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus prselon- 

 gis, lamellatis, parum curvatis ; margarita conspicua, persalmonia 

 et formoso-iridicente. 



Hab. Yadkin River, near Salisburg, N. C. C. M. Wkeatle}-. 



Unio Yadkinensis. 



Testa lsevi, oblonga, coinpressa, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulata, antice rotundata; valvulis crassis; natibus pro- 

 minulis ; epidermide tencbroso-fusca, eradiata ; dentibus cardina- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



libus parviusculis, compressis, corrugatis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis, corrugatis subcurvisque ; 

 margarita vel salinonea vel purpurea et valde iridescentc. 



Hab. Yadkiu River, near Salisbury, N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 



TJnio brevis 



Testa laavi, subtriangulari, subcompressa, ad latere subplanulata, 

 inaequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulata, aiitice rotundata ; valvu- 

 lis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epider- 

 mide flavida, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, sub- 

 corupressis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus lamellatis, 

 parviusculis obliquisque ; margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore 

 tincta et valde iridesceute. 



Hab. Conasauga Creek, Monroe Co., E. Tenn. Miss A. E. 

 Law. 



TTnio amplus. 



Testa lasvi, oblonga, fere alata, inflata, inoequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse biangulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide rufo-fusca, 

 nitida, obsolete radiata, transverse vittata ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parviusculis, rugosis, compressis ; lateralibus proelongis, lamellatis 

 sublongisque ; margarita vel alba vel purpurea vel salmonis colore 

 tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Irwin's Creek, Micklenberg Co., N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio ligatus. 



Testa lasvi, ovato-oblonga, subcompressa, inoequilaterali, postice 

 obscure biangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis ; natibus 

 prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, polita, obsolete radiata, 

 transverse vittata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, corrugatis 

 et in utroque valvulo duplicibus; lateralibus longis, lamellatis, 

 corrugatis subcurvisque ; margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore 

 tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Irwin's Creek, Mecklenberg Co. ; and Long Creek, Gas- 

 ton Co., N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio attenuatus. 



Testa lasvi, lata, attenuata, ad latere subcompressa, valde 

 insequilaterali, postice subbiangulari, antice oblique rotundata; 

 valvulis crassiusculis, antice parum crassioribus ; natibus promi- 

 nulis, fere terminalibus ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, aliquando 

 nigra, radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis, crenu- 




158 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



latis, obliquis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus prse- 

 longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita alba et valde irides- 

 cente. 



Hab. Savannah River, Geo., Dr. Barratt ; and Beaver Creek, 

 Houston Co., Georgia, Dr. J. Lewis. 



Unio differtus. 



Testa loevi, elliptica, ventricosa, subaaquilaterali, postice obtuse 

 biangulari fere rotunda, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus vix prominulis ; epidermide subpolita, luteo- 

 la et obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, corru- 

 gatis, compressis et in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus 

 lougis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita vel albida vel salmonis 

 colore tincta et valde h'idescente. 



Hab. Georgia ? Major J. LeConte. 



Unio strumosus. 



Testa lsevi, rotundata, inflata inrequilaterali, postice obtuse 

 angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis ; natibus prominulis ; 

 epidermide tenebroso-fusca vel nigra, eradiata; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus subgrandibus, rugosis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; 

 lateralibus, longis, rugosis et curvatis ; margarita alba et irides- 

 cente. 



Hab. Yadkin River, N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio subparallelus. 



Testa lsevi, oblonga, subcompressa, ad latere planulata, insequi- 

 laterali, postice subangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassius- 

 culis, antice parum crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices 

 concentrico-rugoso-undulatis ; epidermide tenebi*oso-fusca, nitida, 

 radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, conicis, rugosis, in 

 utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus prselongis, lamellatis 

 subcurvisque ; margarita salmonis colore tincta. 



Hab. Irwin's Creek and Fox River, N. C. C. M. "Wheatley. 



Unio oblongus. 



Testa lsevi, oblonga, compressa, ad latere planulata ; valde 

 insequilaterali ; valvulis parum crassioribus; natibus prominulis ; 

 epidermide luteola, micanti, radiata vel eradiata ; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus parvis, lobatis, corrugatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus; 

 lateralibus prrelongis subrectisque; margarita alba vel purpura- 

 scenti vel salmonis colore tincta et iridescente. 



Hab. Irwin's Creek, N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Unio Irwinensis. 



Testa loevi, suboblonga, parura corapressa, ad latere parum 

 planulata, valde insequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulata, antice 

 rotuudata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus pro- 

 miuulis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide olivacea vel fusca, obso- 

 lete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, parum com- 

 pressis, silicosis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, 

 sublamellatus subcurvisque ; margarita alba vel purpurea vel 

 salnionis colore tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Irwin's Creek, N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 

 Unio curvatus. 



Testa lsevi, late oblonga, subinflata, ad latere planulata, valde 

 insequilaterali, postice angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis parura 

 crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tene- 

 broso-fusca, aliquanto polita, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, sulcatis, compressis, in' utroque valvulo duplicibus ; late- 

 ralibus longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita pallido-salmonia 

 vel purpurascente et valde irridescente. 



Hab. Pfeiffer's Pond, Mecklenberg Co., N". C. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio insolidus. 



Testa lsevi, oblonga, parum compressa, ad latere parum planu- 

 lata, insequilaterali, postice biangulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis 

 subtenuibus, antice parum crassioribus ; natibus subprominenti- 

 bus, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide pallido-viridi, obsolete 

 radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis ; lateralibus 

 longis, lamellatis rectisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. Abbeville Dist., N. C. Dr. Barratt ; and Irwin's Creek, 

 N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio cuspidatus. 



Testa lsevi, lata, subinflata, ad latere parum curvata, valde 

 insequilaterali, postice cuspidata, subbiangulari, antice rotundata ; 

 valvulis crassiusculis ; natibus prominulis, fere terminalibus, epi- 

 dermide tenebroso-olivacea, eradiata, transverse vittata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvis, subcompressis, corrugatis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita 

 alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Buckhead Creek, Burke Co., Geo. Bishop Elliott. 



Unio exacutus. 



Testa lsevi, prselata, subcompressa, ad latere planulata, valde 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



insequilaterali, postice exacuta, subbiangulari, antice oblique 

 rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis ; natibus prominulis, fere termi- 

 nalibus, ad apices minute undulatis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca 

 perradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis sulcatisque ; lateralibus 

 longis, rectis laniellatisque ; margarita vel alba vel purpurea et 

 valde iridescente. 



Hab. Savannah River at Governor Hamilton's, Geo. Dr. 

 Barratt. 



Unio subsquamosus. 



Testa laevi, oblongo-elliptica, compressa, ad latere planulata, 

 valde insequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulari, antice oblique 

 rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis ; natibus parvis, prominulis, ad 

 apices rugoso-undulatis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, subsqua- 

 mosa, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, sulcatis, in utroque 

 valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus prrelongis, lamellatis subrectisque; 

 margarita alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Yadkin River, N. C. C. M. Wbeatley. 



Unio rostellum. 



Testa laevi, lata, compressa, ad latere planulata, valde inaequi- 

 laterali, postice obtuse biangulari, antice rotunda ; valvulis tenui- 

 bus ; natibus parvis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, obsolete radiata; 

 dentibus cardinalibus compressis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus ; lateralibus prselongis, lamellatis rectisque ; margarita 

 vel albida vel purpurea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Macon, Georgia. I. C. Plant. 

 Unio infuscus. 



Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, inasquilatcrali, postice obtuse 

 biangulari, antice rotundata; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis, ad apices parum undulatis ; epidermide tene- 

 broso-fusca, submicanti, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 subcrassis, compressis corrugatisque ; lateralibus longis, lamella- 

 tis, rugosis subcurvisque ; margarita vel salmonia vel purpura- 

 scente et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Fox River and Irwin's Creek, N. C. C. M. Wbeatley. 



Unio ratus. 



Testa laevi, quadrata, subcompressa, ad latere subplanulata, 

 valde imvquilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda ; 

 valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus prominulis ; epi- 

 dermide tenebroso-olivacea, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus par- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 161 



vis, snbconicis, silicosis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; laterali- 

 bus sublongis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita purpurescente 

 et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Neuse River, N. C. Prof. E. Emmons. 



TJnio dissimilis. 



Testa laavi, sublata, compressa, ad latere planulata, valde 

 insequilaterali, postice obtuse angulari, antice rotunda ; valvulis 

 subtenuibus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, 

 micanti, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, subcom- 

 pressis, silicosis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus 

 prcelongis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita alba et valde iri- 

 descente. 



Hab. Long Creek, Gaston Co., and Pfeiffer's Pond, Mecklen- 

 berg Co., N". C. C. M. Wheatley. 



TJnio bellulus. 



Testa laevi, oblique, tumida, ad latere parum planulata, valde 

 insequilaterali, postice obtuse angulari, antice oblique rotundata ; 

 valvulis percrassis, antice crassioribus natibus pyramidatis, fere 

 terminalibus ; epidermide luteola, valde radiata; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus subcrassis, rugosis ; lateralibus curtis, crassis nigosisque; 

 margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. Holston River. Dr. Edgar. Tenn. River. Rev. G. White. 

 Mussel Shoals, Tenn. River, Alabama. C. M. Wheatley. 



TJnio basalis. 



Testa lsevi, oblonga, subinflata, ad latere subplanulata, inffiqui- 

 laterali, postice obtuse biangulari, antice rotundata, ad basim 

 recta ; valvulis crassiusculis ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide 

 luteola, radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, subcom- 

 pressis, sulcatis ; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; 

 rnargarita vel albida vel purpurascente et iridescente. 



Hab. Carter's Creek, near Columbus, Georgia. G. Hallenbeck. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



July 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



On a new Genus of Extinct Turtles Prof. Leidy stated that 



in a more careful study of the fossil turtles of Wyoming, he had 

 determined that the one he had named Bsena undata belonged to 

 a different genus. Besides other well marked distinctive charac- 

 ters, like the genus Platemys, it possessed an additional pair of 

 plates to the usual number found in the sternum of the emydoids. 

 These plates are intercalated between the hyo- and hyposternals. 

 In Platemys Bullockii they are quadrate. In the new genus they 

 are triangular, and the sutures defining them cross the plastron 

 like a prostrated letter X, from which character it was proposed 

 to name the genus Chisternon. 



On some remains of Cretaceous Fishes. Prof. Leidy called 

 attention to some teeth of fishes from the cretaceous formation, 

 which he described as follows : 



Otodus divaricatus. 



The species is indicated by an entire tooth of peculiar character, 

 submitted to my examination b}*- Dr. William Spillman, of Colum- 

 bus, Mississippi. It was sent to him from Texas, but its exact 

 locality is unknown. It was probably derived from a cretaceous 

 formation. Of known species it resembles most the Otodus semi- 

 plicatus, Minister, of the chalk of Europe, and has likewise consider- 

 able likeness to a tooth from the chalk of France, represented in 

 fig. ii. pi. *76, of Gervais' Paleontologie Francaise. 



The crown forms an elongated demicone with the apex slightly 

 bent forward. The enamel at the base is plicated in front and 

 behind. The lateral denticles are conical and divergent outward 

 and anteriorly. The root is thick, strong and notched, and rises 

 posteriorly above the middle of the length of the tooth. Length 

 of crown in front 13 lines ; base of same external to denticles of the 

 same width. Breadth of root 15^ lines ; thickness 6 lines. 



OXYRHINA EXTENTA. 



A species founded on a number of teeth obtained from the 

 cretaceous formation of Kansas, by Dr. George M. Sternberg, 

 TJ. S. A., and from near Columbus, Mississippi, by Dr. William 

 Spillman. 



The teeth resemble most those of Oxyrhina Mantelli of the 

 English chalk, and differ mainly in the proportionately greater 

 lateral extension of the base of the crown. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G3 



Measurements of two Mississippi specimens are as follows : 



Length of crown internally 11 lines. 8 lines. 



Breadth " " 16^ " 13 " 



Length of tooth at middle 14 " 10 " 



Breadth of root . " 18 " 14 " 



Measurement of two Kansas specimens are as follows : 



Length of crown internally 8 lines. 6 lines. 



Breadth " " 15| " 12 



u 



Length of tooth at middle 12 " 8 



(< 



Breadth of root " 17 " 13 " 



ACRODUS HTJMILIS. 



Founded on a tooth adherent to a portion of limestone from 

 the New Jersey cretaceous formation. It resembles most nearly 

 the Acrodus rugosus, Ag., of the chalk of Maestricht, and the A. 

 polydictyos, Reuss, of the Bohemian chalk. The tooth is 8 lines 

 wide, 2 lines fore and aft. The anterior and posterior borders are 

 not quite straight ; and the extremities are angular. The upper 

 surface is moderately convex. A nearly obsolete ridge crosses the 

 tooth transversely, and from this ridge minute folds are directed 

 forward and backward to end in a reticulation. 



This is I believe the first time the genus Acrodus has been 

 noticed in the American cretaceous formation. Prof. Emmons 

 represents the tooth of a species in his report of the North Caro- 

 lina Geological Survey, p. 244, fig. 97, which he attributes to the 

 miocene. If really an Acrodus tooth, it would be the latest spe- 

 cies 3 r et discovered. It might be named Acrodus Emmonsi in 

 honor of its discoverer. 



Pycnodus faba. 



This species is named from a specimen from the cretaceous for- 

 mation of Mississippi, discovered by Dr. William Spillman. The 

 fossil consists of a jaw fragment with four large teeth obliquely 

 parallel with each other. They are elongated elliptical, and 

 smooth ; and they measure three-fourths of an inch wide, and one- 

 fourth of an inch in the short diameter. On both sides the larger 

 teeth, there are two rows of small teeth. 



Mr. Norris spoke at some length on his effort now in progress 

 to stock the Delaware with the true salmon (Salmo sala?-). Having 

 procured 12,000 ova from Mr. Wilmot, New Castle, Canada, he 

 placed then on gravel in wooden troughs of running spring water 

 near the town of Easton, Pa. These ego-s was taken in November, 

 1871, by manipulation of the parent fish and fecundated in the 

 usual wa} r , and placed in water almost down to the freezing point. 

 The young fish were, however, plainly visible in the egg when 

 received on the first of April, and struggling to break the shell. 




1G4 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



On being placed in water at 52 the ova immediately commenced 

 hatching, and in a week the fry were all out. In seven weeks the 

 yolk sac was absorbed, and the} r commenced feeding off small 

 particles of curdled milk fed to them daily for a week longer. 

 They were then transported in large tin vessels to the Buskill, 

 which runs through the outskirts of Easton, where a third of 

 them were liberated at the mouth of a cold spring branch, and the 

 remaining two-thirds placed in a small natural pond fed by a 

 copious spring in a meadow above and discharging by a narrow 

 outlet into the creek. Either here or at the mouth of the spring 

 branch mentioned the fry will get such natural food as their in- 

 stinct will lead them to seek, and thrive far better than if kept in 

 artificial ponds and fed on prepared food. 



The law of the salmon, as with the shad and other anadromous 

 fishes, is that it will inevitably seek its native stream in its return 

 from sea impelled by the instinct of reproduction, and although 

 the Delaware is south of the limit of the geographical range of the 

 salmon, it is on the law of nature that reliance is placed for its 

 return to this river. It has been ascertained beyond doubt that 

 one-half of a brood of salmon go to sea when a little over a }'ear 

 old, and the remaining half the following summer. The males of 

 salmon as with shad are fecund a year earlier than the females, and 

 it is not improbable therefore that those that migrate when a year 

 old are males, and those that go to sea the next year are females. 

 Mr. Norris thought the Delaware, on account of its being unob- 

 structed by impassable dams and having a bold .current, was a 

 favorable river for trying to acclimatize salmon south of their 

 present habitat. He is sanguine of success, and, even if the solu- 

 tion of this problem should not be favorable, he considers it im- 

 portant that the question should be definitely settled. 



Mr. Norris also made some remarks on the effect of food on the 

 external appearance of trout (S. fontinalis), as well as on the 

 quality of their flesh that, when fed in crowded artificial ponds 

 on prepared food, the vermilion spots disappear, and the flesh 

 deteriorates, but that the spots are restored, as well as the flavor of 

 the fish, when placed in large ponds where they can find natural 

 food. He also spoke of the malformation of young trout and 

 salmon on being hatched, the body being curved around the yolk- 

 sac, causing their death in a few weeks. 



July 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



On Artemiafrom Salt Lake, Utah. Prof. Leidy directed atten- 

 tion to a bottle containing numerous specimens of a minute crus- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 165 



tacean from Salt Lake, Utah, caught on the 22d of June by Mr. 

 C. Carrington, a member of Prof. Hayden's exploring party now 

 in the field. They were received from Prof. Hayden with the 

 remark " that Salt Lake has been supposed, like the Dead Sea, to 

 be devoid of life, but its saltest water contains the most of these 

 little creatures." 



The crustacean is the Artemia salina which has long been 

 known in Europe, and has been previously found in other localities 

 of this country. The animal has always been viewed with especial 

 interest, in its order, from the fact that it lives and thrives best in 

 a concentrated solution of salt, which would destroy most marine 

 animals. It has not, I believe, been noticed in the ocean, but is 

 found in salt lakes, and salt vats, in which by evaporation the 

 brine has become more concentrated than sea water. 



Artemia is furnished with eleven pairs of limbs, which serve 

 both for progression and respiration. The limbs are four jointed, 

 and the joints have leaf-like expansions fringed with long feather- 

 like bristles. The narrow abdomen or tail-like prolongation of 

 the body is six-jointed, and traversed by the intestine. The last 

 joint ends in a pair of processes furnished each with a bunch of 

 bristles like those of the limbs. The head exhibits a median, 

 quadrate, black eye-spot, and in addition is provided with a pair 

 of pedunculate, globular compound eyes. A short narrow pair of 

 inarticulate antennas project in advance of the eyes. 



The head of the male is furnished with a pair of singular organs 

 for seizing the female. These claspers are large double-jointed 

 hooks. In the female they are replaced by a pair of comparatively 

 small horn-like processes. The first abdominal segment bears the 

 ovarian sac in the female ; and two cylindroid appendages in the 

 male. 



The female of the Salt Lake Artemia ranges from 4 to "7 lines in 

 length ; the male from 3 to 4 lines in length. The color is trans- 

 lucent-white and ochreous-yellow, with three black eye-spots, and 

 a longitudinal line varying in hue with the contents of the intes- 

 tine. The ovarian sac appears orange-colored from the eggs 

 within. 



The antennas end in three or four minute setas, and are consider- 

 ably longer in the male than the female. The first joint of the 

 claspers is provided on its inner side just below the middle with 

 a spheroidal knob. The last joint forms a rectangular hook, the 

 angle having an elbow-like prominence. When the clasper is 

 thrown forward, the outer border of the hook is convex ; the 

 anterior border straight, slightly, or deeply concave, and the inner 

 or posterior border is sigmoid. The antennas are longer than in 

 the female, and longer than the first joint of the claspers; and in 

 the female are longer than their homologues. The ovarian sac is 

 inverted flask-shaped, and has a pair of lateral conical or lnani- 

 millary, finely tuberculated processes. The caudal setas are longer 

 than in the male, and are eight to each process. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This description is taken from alcoholic specimens. They ex- 

 hibit considerable variation in size, and to some extent in detail. 



Prof. Verrill has described what he views as two species of 

 Artemia distinct from the well-known A. salina. One he names 

 A. gracilis from near New Haven, Conn. ; the other A. Monico from 

 Lake Mono, Cal. That from Salt Lake differs from either of them 

 as much as they do from A. salvia, and with the same propriety 

 ma}^ be regarded as a distinct species. I am disposed to view 

 them all as varieties merelj r of A. salina. 



Measurements of two specimens of the Salt Lake Artemia are 

 as follows : 



Total length 



Length of body .... 



Breadth of body with limbs 

 Breadth of head at eyes . 

 Breadth of thorax where widest 

 Length of first joint of abdomen 

 Breadth " " . . 



Length of sixth " " 

 Breadth " " " . 



Length of caudle setae 

 Length of antennae .... 

 Length of claspers of male 

 Breadth " " 



Breadth of ovarian sac 

 Diameter of eggs .... 



Remarks on Fossil Shark Teeth Prof. Leidy stated that from 

 time to time he had observed specimens of teeth from various 

 cretaceous formations which were identical in character with those 

 of Lamna elegans and L. cuspidata of tertiary deposits except 

 that they were devoid of the lateral denticles. He had now in his 

 possession well-preserved specimens of such teeth, unabraded, but 

 exhibiting no trace of the existence of lateral denticles. There 

 were teeth of the L. elegans variety found with the skeleton of 

 Hadrosaurus Foulkii in New Jersej T , and others from the creta- 

 ceous of Mississippi and Kansas. There were also teeth of the 

 L. cuspidata. variety from the cretaceous of Kansas, and one in a 

 block of chalk from Sussex, England. The absence of the lateral 

 denticles in all the cretaceous specimens he thought could hardly 

 be accidental, and suspected that these teeth represented the oxy- 

 rhina ancestors, of the tertiary Lamna elegans and L. cuspidata, 

 who lived during the cretaceous era. 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 167 



July 16. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Eight members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



"Descriptions of a new recent species of Glycimeris from Beau- 

 fort, N. C, and of Miocene Shells of North Carolina." By T. A. 

 Conrad. 



July 30. 



Mr. B. A. Hoopes in the chair. 



Six members present. 



On leave being granted, Mr. Tryon read the following commu- 

 nication received by him from Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



ON SOME NEW SPECIES OP FOSSIL MAMMALIA FROM WYOMING. 



Fort Bridger, Uinta Co., Wyoming, 

 July 24th, 1872. 



I arrived at this place on the 15th inst. The country is the 

 most remarkable that I have ever seen. It is an immense basin, 

 the bed of an ancient lake, bounded on the south by the Uinta 

 Mountains, and extending far north to the Wind River Mountains. 

 The deposits of the lake, of the tertiary period, are estimated to 

 be about 8000 feet in thickness. The}^ present the appearance of 

 a succession of terraces or table-lands extending southerly from 

 Green River to the base of the Uintas. The country for the most 

 part is treeless, and, except along the watercourses, nearly a 

 desert. The tertiary deposits consist of strata so little inclined 

 that they appear to be horizontal to the eye. The strata are 

 composed mainly of clays, soft and crumbling or more or less 

 indurated, often mixed with sand. Friable sandstones and in- 

 durated marls, often with abundance of fresh-water shells, also 

 frequently occur. The lands are often isolated Iry broad plains or 

 narrower valleys. These isolated lands are named buttes, and 

 resemble great earthworks or huge railway embankments. Fre- 

 quently their eroded sides give them the appearance of a vast 

 assemblage of Egyptian pyramids flanking the plains above. 

 Such assemblages of earthworks, pyramids, mounds, piles of trun- 

 cated cones, &c, rising from a plain, constitute what are named, 

 in various parts of our great West, "bad lands" or "mauvaises 

 terres." 



As the buttes crumble away under the effect of the weather, the 

 fossils of their strata become exposed to view. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



On the 17tb, in company with Dr. J. Van A. Carter and Dr. 

 Joseph K. Corson, U.S.A., I made a trip to the valley of Dry 

 Creek, forty miles from Fort Bridger. Here we encamped and 

 spent three days in exploring the neighboring bnttes for fossils. 

 In ascending the buttes bounding the valley I was astonished at 

 the appearance of the country extending from the horizon in the 

 north to the snow3^-peaked Uintas on the south. An utter desert, 

 a vast succession of treeless plains and bnttes, with scarcely any 

 vegetation and no signs of animal life. Eve lathing parched, 

 abundance of river courses without water, the stones at my feet 

 baked in the soil. An overwhelming silence reigned undisturbed 

 even by the hum of an insect. Truly, I said, this is the wreck of 

 another world which was once luxuriant with vegetation and 

 teemed with animals. 



We were successful in finding many interesting fossils. The 

 most abundant vertebrate remains are those of turtles, the shells 

 of which are frequently met with in little heaps of fragments into 

 which they have been reduced after exposure from the wearing of 

 the buttes. Of mammalian remains the most abundant are those 

 of the tapir-like animal I named Paleeosyops jjaludosus. We also 

 found a number of more characteristic specimens than I had before 

 seen of the larger species of Paleeosyops majo?\ Dr. Corson further 

 discovered the remains of a small species which may be named 

 Paleeosyops humilis. An upper molar tooth of this animal mea- 

 sures three- fourths of an inch in diameter. We have likewise 

 found some additional remains of Hyrachyus agrarius, and better 

 specimens than I before had of the larger Hyrachyus eximius. A 

 well-preserved last lower molar of this species measures an inch 

 fore and aft. 



We were fortunate in obtaining the remains of two of the largest 

 and most extraordinary mammals } T et discovered in the Bridger 

 tertiary deposits. One of these was a tapiroid animal exceeding 

 in bulk of body and limb the living Rhinoceroses, though the head 

 appears to have been proportionally small. Dr. Carter discovered 

 many fragments of a skeleton of the animal, including a whole 

 humerus, portions of jaws, and a much crushed and distorted 

 cranium. 



The upper molar teeth have the crown composed of a pair of 

 transverse lobes, with sloping sides and acute summits, separated 

 externally and united internally in a V-like manner. A thick 

 basal ridge bounds the crown in front and behind. A last upper 

 molar measures an inch and a half in the median line fore and aft. 

 The molars in advance are smaller. 



The lower molars have a trilobed crown. The anterior lobe, 

 larger than the others, extends across the crown and rises in a 

 prominent peak internally. The acute summit is worn away 

 posteriorly. The middle lobe extends about two-thirds across 

 the crown from the outer side, and is less prominent than the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 169 



others. The back lobe, second in size, is thickest internally. The 

 fore and aft diameter of the last lower molar is equal to the cor- 

 responding upper tooth. 



The depth of the lower jaw at the last molar is three and a 

 quarter inches. 



The humerus is nearly a foot and three-fourths in length and 

 seven and a half inches in breadth at the condjdes. 



I propose to name the great pachyderm of the Uinta country, 



the UlNTATHERIUM ROBUSTUM. 



If not the most interesting, the most exciting incident of our 

 exploration of Diy Creek buttes was Dr. Corson's discovery of the 

 upper canine teeth, apparently of the most formidable of Carnivores, 

 the enemy of the Uintatherium, Paleeosyops, and other peaceful 

 pachyderms. The teeth resemble in their form those of the Sabre- 

 toothed Tiger. The more perfect specimen consists of nearly nine 

 inches of the enameled crown. In its perfect condition the tooth 

 measured upwards of a foot in length, so that it exceeded the 

 canines of the great Brazilian Machairodus. The tooth is sabre- 

 like, curved, and compressed conical. Its most remarkable cha- 

 racter consists in the lance-head-like form of the terminal three 

 inches. It is thickened at the axis, and impressed and expanded 

 towards the edges, so as to be actually broader in one portion 

 than immediately above. The antero- posterior diameter of the 

 crown near its base is two inches ; the thickness over an inch. 



These canine teeth terminating in lance-like points must have 

 proved most terrific instruments of slaughter. Their possessor 

 was no doubt the scourge of Uinta, and may therefore be appro- 

 priately named Uintamastix atrox. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be printed : 



12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MATERIAL FOR A MONOGRAPH OF THE SPHENISCIDJS. 

 BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES, U. S. ARMY. 



This paper is based chiefly upon the specimens contained in the 

 Philadelphia Academy and Smithsonian Institution, one portion 

 of it representing a descriptive catalogue thereof. The Academy's 

 collection is the largest and most nearly perfect in this country, 

 and has not heretofore been worked up; while that of the Smith- 

 sonian is particularly valuable because it contains the t}-pes of all 

 the species described as new by Mr. T. R. Peale, in 1848. With 

 this material is collated that in the Museum of the Boston Society, 

 as recently elaborated by the custodian, Prof. Hyatt. Extensive 

 lists of s} T nonyms have been prepared, representing, it is believed, 

 every name, generic or specific, that has been proposed for these 

 birds, with numerous additional references. Some anatomical 

 investigations have been made in an attempt to determine the 

 genera. An annotated list, in chronological order, of the prin- 

 cipal authorities upon the subject, from the Linnasan starting- 

 point to the present day, is likewise given. 



I. ON THE LITERATURE OF THE SUBJECT. 



1766. Linnjeus, Syst. Nat. i. pp. 214, 219. Gives two species, 

 under different genera. One, Diomedea demersa, based on Wil- 

 loughb}', 242, Edwards, 94 (black-footed penguin), Clusius, 101 

 (Anser magellanicus), and Brisson, vi. pp. 97, 99, pi. 9 (Sphe- 

 niscus 1 noevius) is now the Sphenicus demersus auct. It is 

 quoted from the Cape of Good Hope. The other, Phaeton demer- 

 sus, is based upon Edwards, 49 (red-footed penguin), and the 

 Catarractes 1 of Brisson, vi. 102; it is the Eudyptes catarractes of 

 this paper. In strict interpretation, the species should be called 



1 These names, Sphcniscus and Catarractes, conflict with no Linnrean 

 genera, and so far are tenable. Spheniscus holds; but the other is ante- 

 dated by Catarractes of Mohring, and therefore falls, since Mohring's 

 name does not conflict with a Linnsean one. If the very strict rules that 

 some contend for should go in force among the penguins, I hardly know 

 what would become of our nomenclature of the group. The bouleversement 

 of the familiar names would certainly be complete. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Eudyptes demersa ; but the liability to confusion renders this 

 inexpedient. 



IT 68. Pennant, Phil. Trans, lviii. p. 91, pi. 5. Gives an "Ac- 

 count of the different species of the Birds called Penguins," and 

 among other things characterizes the smaller of the two species 

 of Aptenodytes, subsequently called longirostris by Scopoli, and 

 later named pennantii by Gray. 



1177. Scopoli. I have not the work at hand, but, as well as 

 I can gather from other sources, Sonnerat's penguins are named 

 as follows: Manchot de la Nouvelle Guinee, Sonn. Voy. 180, pi. 

 113 = Aptenodytes longirostris, Scop, (a name that appears to hold 

 good, antedating pennantii of Gra}'). Manchot papou, Sonn. 181, 

 pi. 115 = Aptenodytes papua, Scop. Manchot a collier de la Nou- 

 velle Guinee, Sonn. 181, pi. 114 = Aptenodytes platyrhyncha, Scop. 

 The last is Spheniscus demersus, ya.r. magellanicus; the others 

 are valid new species. 



1781. Forster, Comm. Soc. Beg. Sc. Gotting. iii. 121. "His- 

 toria Aptenodytre generis avium orbi australi proprii." This 

 article stands facile princeps among the writings upon this 

 subject of the last century. It not only marks a great advance 

 upon previous knowledge of the family, but is more satisfac- 

 tory in every respect than anything that followed for a long 

 period ; in fact, it is the real beginning of the exact literature. 

 Placing all the species in the genus Aptenodytes, the author 

 divides them into the Gristatae, containing one species, and the 

 Alophee, with eight species. His crested species is chrysocome, 

 n. s. ; and I agree with Dr. Schlegel that this is not the same bird 

 as Forster's catarractes. However his figure may strike us, and 

 however we may interpret his language, Forster certainly meant 

 to indicate two different species ; and accordingly we cannot rele- 

 gate chrysocome to catarractes, as Gray has done. Forster's 

 crestless species are : A. patachonica, n. s., the first recognizable 

 description of the species Gray subsequently called forsteri; A. 

 papna, Scop.; A. antarctica, n. s.; A. magellanicus, n. s., but the 

 collared variety of demersus, and the same as the Manchot du 

 Cap de Bonne Esperance, Buff., PI. Eulum. 382 ; A. demersus 

 (= Biomedea demersa, L.) ; A. catarractes (= Phaeton demersus, 

 L.) ; A. torquata, n. s., but a variety of demersus, the same as A. 

 platyrhyncha, Scop. ; and A. minor, n. s. Thus, of Forster's nine 

 species, six are here named for the first time ; seven are valid ; and 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



four are valid new species. Most of the species are also figured. 

 Forster does not give longirostris, Scop. ; this, added to his seven 

 good species, gives us the following list of eight valid and well- 

 determined species, up to date. 



1. Diomedea demersa, Linn. 1766. 



2. Phaeton demersus, Linn. 1766. [=catarractes, Auct.] 



3. APTENODYTESLONGiROSTRis,Seop. 1777. [= pennantii, Gray.] 



4. Aptenotydes papua, Scop. 1777. [nomen ineptuin.] 



5. Aptenodytes chrysocome, Forst. 1781. 



6. Aptenodytes patachonica, Forst. 1781. 



7. Aptenodytes Antarctica, Forst. 1781. 



8. Aptenodytes minor, Forst. 1781. 



1782. Bonnaterre, Ency. Method, i. p. 67, 68. Figures Apt. 

 papua (pi. 17). Names Apt. gorfua; it is the same as Phaeton de- 

 mersus, L. 



1788. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. pp. 555-9. This author gathers 

 eleven species, as follows. None of those given additional to 

 Forster's are valid: 



1. A. chrysocome, p. 555. This is based primarily upon Forster, 

 133, pi. 1, although the author also quotes the Manchot sauteur, 

 Buff, ix., 409, and Manchot huppe de Siberie, P. E. 984, which is 

 catarractes. But as the description is applicable to either species, 

 and the prior reference is to Forster, I do not see why Gmelin 's 

 bird should not be considered the same as Forster's. 



2. A. patachonica, p. 556. This is compounded of equal parts 

 of the two species of Aptenodytes ; for neither Gmelin nor an} r 

 of the earlier authors seem to have made the discrimination, 

 although we can, in certain cases, as those of Scopoli and Forster, 

 determine which species they had in view. Thus, Gmelin quotes 

 Forster, 137, pi. 2, and Mill. 111. pi. 20, both of which are true 

 patachonica, Forst. (forsteri, Graj-); and also quotes BurT., ix. 399; 

 P. E. 975 ; Sonnerat, Voy. 179, pi. 113 ; Pennant, Phil. Trans, lviii. 

 p. 91 ; Pennant. G. of B. 66, pi. 14 ; and Latham, Syn. vi. 563, No. 

 2 ; most of which, when not including both species, are unmis- 

 takably the smaller species (pennantii, Gray). 



3. A. papua, p. 556. Based on Sonnerat and Forster. 



4. A. Antarctica, p. 557. Forster's species. 



5. A. magellanicus, p. 557. Forster's species. Mill., pi. 34, 

 Lath., Syn. vi. 569, are also quoted. It is a variety of demei^sus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 173 



6. A. demersus, p. 557, is the Linnnean bird. Ginelin makes a 

 variety, /3, on Brisson's neevius coupled with the Manchot d bee 

 tronque of Buflbn, ix. 411 ; P. E. 1005. 



7. A. catarractes, p. 558, stands on the same footing as the 

 Linnaean Phaeton demersus. 



8. A. torquatus, p. 558, is the same as Forster's bird; the 

 collared variety of demersus. Sonnerat, pi. 114, etc. 



9. A. minor, p. 558 == A. minor, Forst. 



10. A. chilensis and 11, A. chiloensis, p. 559, are based on 

 Molina's descriptions of a young S. demersus in downy plumage, 

 and one of the same species in imperfect feathering. 



1790. Latham, Index Ornithologicus, ii. 878 et seq. In this 

 work binomial names are given to the species described under 

 English names in the General Synopsis, vol. vi. of the same 

 author. We may also conveniently consider, in this connection, 

 Latham's General History, vol. x. p. 381 et seq., which brings the 

 subject, so far as this author is concerned, down to 1824. As ex- 

 pressing the author's mature views, we take *up the species as 

 given in the latter work, referring also to the earlier ones. There 

 are fifteen of them, as follows : 



1. Cape pinguin, p. 381 ; Gen. Syn. vi. 566 ; Apt. demersus, Ind. 

 Orn. ii. 879. This is the original Linnaean Diomedea demersa. 

 Latham makes a var. A. out of Brisson's S. naeoius, and a var. B. 

 of the Pinguin & lunettes of Fernet, Yoy. ii. 17, pi. 7, f. 3. 

 Neither variety stands good. 



2. Magellanic pinguin,p. 383 ; Syn. 569; Apt. magellanicus, 

 Ind. 880. This is the collared variety of demersus. 



3. Crested pinguin, p. 385 ; Syn. 561 ; A. chrysocome, Ind. 878. 

 This is essentially the same as Forster's and Gmelin's chrysocome, 

 but Latham also makes some other quotations (as Pinguinaria 

 cristata, Shaw, Nat. Misc. pi. 437, and Planch. Enl. 984), which 

 are probably catarractes. 



4. Red-footed pinguin, p. 386 ; Syn. 572 ; Apt. catarractes, Ind. 

 881. The original Phaeton demersus of Linnaeus. 



5. Little pinguin, p. 387, pi. clxxx = A minor, Forst. 



6. New Holland pinguin, p. 388. Indeterminable with certainty ; 

 no references are given, but the description points to a young S. 

 demersus. (" Bill black, upper mandible hooked near the tip, 

 under truncated, legs flesh-colored brown, webs black.") 




174 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



7. Chiloe pingutn, p. 388; Syn., Suppl. ii. 3G1 ; A. chiloensis, 

 Ind. 881. Same basis as Ginelin's chiloensis. 



8. Papuan tinguin, p. 388 ; Syn. 565 ; A. pajnia, Ind. 879 = A. 

 papua, Scop. 



9. Antarctic pinguin, p. 389; Syn. 565; A. antarctica, Ind. 

 879 = A. antarctica, Forst. 



10. Patagonian pinguin, p. 390 ; Syn. 563 ; A. patagonica, Ind. 

 878. Here, as in Graelin's case, the quotations of both the species 

 of Aptenodytes are brought together, Buffon, Sonnerat, Forster, 

 Miller, Shaw, Pennant, and othei's being indiscriminately cited. 



11. Collared pinguin, p. 391 ; Syn. 571 ; A. torquata, Ind. 880. 

 Same as Forster's bird of that name ; the collared variety of S. 

 demersus. 



12. Hairy pinguin, p. 392. No citations. Indeterminable. 

 The bird is unquestionably the young of one of the well-known 

 species, probably Aptenodytes longirostris, to judge from the 

 dimensions assigned. 



13. "Woolly pinguin, p. 392, pi. clxxxi. No citations. Appa- 

 rently a "new species," like the hairy penguin, and evidently the 

 young of Aptenodytes longirostris. 



14. Three-toed pinguin, p. 393; Syn. Suppl. ii. 361 ; Apteno- 

 dytes molinse, Ind. 881. This is the same as Gmelin's bird, both 

 being based on Diomedea chilensis of Molina. It is Spheniscus 

 demersus. 



Latham's fifteenth species, the "Apterous Pinguin," is the Ap- 

 ieryx australis. 



1797. Geoff. St. Hiliare. Mill. Mag. Ency. iii. vi. p. 11. 

 " Sur les Manchots." 



1789-1813. Shaw, Naturalises Miscell. A genus Pinguin aria 

 is proposed ; it is a synonA 7 m of Aptenodytes. A species cristata 

 is described and figured (pi. 437) ; it is Phaeton demersus, Linn. 

 The smaller of the two species of Aptenodytes is indicated under 

 the name of patachonica, and figured (pi. 409). 



? 1811. Illiger. Both Gray and Schlcgel quote a certain 

 Aptenodytes fuscirostris, 111. among the synonj-ms of Spheniscus 

 demersus. I have not been able to verify the reference, and do 

 not know whether or not it is in the Prodromus, 1811. 



1816. Yieillot, Analyse, etc. A genus, Eudyptes, is iusti- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



tuted ; the name holds for the crested group, if these are con- 

 sidered worthy of generic rank. 



1820-26. Vieillot, Galerie, etc. Aptenodytes papua, Sco-p.is 

 figured (pi. 299). 



1825. Stephens, Cont. of Shaw's Gen. Zool. Genus Ghryso- 

 coma, a synonym of Eudyptes, Y., 1816, is instituted. 



1825. Weddell, Froriep's Notizen, xii. 198. On species of Ap- 

 tenodytes, etc., from the South Georgians. 



1832. Wagler, Isis. A genus, Pygoscelis, is based upon Apte- 

 nodytes papua, Scop. 



1833. Yarrell, P. Z. S. i. 33, 65. On the hairy and woolly 

 penguins of Latham. 



1834. Bennett, P. Z. S. ii. 34. Habits of Aptenodytes. 



1834. Meyen, Nova Acta Acad. Gses. Leop.-Garol. xvi. supp. 

 i. 110, pi. 21. A species is named Spheniscus humboldtii, from 

 Peru ; it is a synonym of S. demersus. The author, indeed, 

 remarks upon the likelihood of its being the same as P. E. 382. 

 I have seen specimens precisely like the plate here given. 



1835. Reid, P. Z. S.i'n. 132. Anatomy of Apt. patagonica. 

 1831. Brandt, Bull. Acad. Sc. St. Petersb. ii. 305. A very 



important and valuable contribution, like the rest of this emi- 

 nent naturalist's publications. A new species, Gatarractes chry- 

 solophus (the first valid new one for half a century!) is described. 



1841. Hombron and Jacquinot, Ann. Sc. Nat. xii. p. 320. A 

 notable article. Two valid new species are described, viz., Gatar- 

 ractes adelise and G. antipodes, raising the number of known 

 species to eleven. A few years subsequently (1846), these species 

 are figured by the same authors (Yoy. Pole Sud, pi. 33), and one 

 of them (adelise) is made the tj^pe of a new genus, Dasyrliamphus. 

 (See also Comptes Bendus, 1841, xiii. 360, on the same species.) 



1842. Gloger, . Institutes the genus Dypsicles, type de- 

 mersus. (According to Gray ; I have no means of verifying the 

 citation.) 



184-. Gray, Voyage of the Erebus and Terror, Birds. In 

 this very acceptable contribution, Mr. Gray figures three of the 

 previously known species, viz., papua, antarctica, and antipodes, 

 in pis. 25, 26, 2T respectively, and describes and figures a new 

 species, Pygoscelis brevirostris, pi. 28 ; this last, however, is identi- 

 cal with adelise, as the author soon discovered. He also describes 

 another new species, Eudyptes pachyrhyncha, p. 11 ; and the 




11 G .PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



name will stand, if, as Mr. Gray holds, chrysocome and catarractes 

 Forst., Gm. and Lath., are the same bird ; but I cannot agree 

 with him here. I think that these older authors had two species 

 in view, and that their chrysocome is what Gray here names 

 pachyrhyncha. 



1844. Lichtenstein, Edit. Forster's Descr. Anim. In this re- 

 presentation of Forster's labors, among other things, two new 

 names are proposed, but neither of them stands. Aptenodytes 

 patpebrata, from the Cape of Good Hope, is the original Linnsean 

 Diomedea demersa, whilst A. brasiliensis is a variety of the same 

 species, equivalent to the old torquata or magellanicus of Forster. 



1844. Gray, Am. Mag. Nat. Hist. xiii. 315. The author care- 

 fully distinguishes the two species of Aptenodytes, calling one of 

 them for steri, a name anticipated by patachonica, Forst. ; and the 

 other pennantii, which is antedated b} r longirostris of Scopoli. 



1844. Gould, P. Z. S. xii. 87. Description of a new species, 

 Apt. undina; it is the same as Apt. minor, Forst. 



1848. Peale, Ornith. of the U. S. Expl. Exped. As ornitho- 

 logists are aware, the Ornithology of the Wilkes's Expedition was 

 " official^" cancelled by the United States Government, and the 

 edition was recalled as far as possible, on account of the unsatis- 

 factory manner in which the author of the work was considered to 

 have performed his task. But the attempted suppression proved 

 impossible ; the work is extant, and must be recognized. In his 

 treatment of the penguins, Mr. Peale shows his familiarity with 

 the birds themselves, but unfortunately some ignorance of orni- 

 thological literature. With a copy of his work before us, and 

 all his original specimens, now in the Smithsonian, we find that 

 he has discriminated the species with perfect accuracy; and he 

 gives many new and interesting biographical data. His short- 

 comings are soleby in the matter of nomenclature. We are enabled 

 to make the following determinations: 



A. magnirostris, Peale, = Sph. demersus, var. magellanicus. 



"A. chrysocome, Gm.?" Peale, = Eudyptes catarractes. 



A. flavilarvata, Peale, = Pygoscelis antipodes (II. and J.) 



A. longicaudata, Peale, = Pygoscelis adelise (II. and J.) 



A. t^gniata, Peale, = Aptenodytes papua of Scopoli, but the 

 name must stand, since Scopoli's is geographically inapplicable. 

 Peale's other names are correct; his patagoniea is Forster's bird, 

 the true " emperor penguin." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



1849. Gray, Genera of Birds, iii. Since the Spheniscidee, like 

 the Bsittacidse, the Picidse and some others, form a remarkably 

 definite and somewhat isolated group of birds, it is particularly 

 surprising that such an accomplished ornithologist as Mr. Gray 

 should here and elsewhere dismember the Alcidse for the purpose 

 of wedging the penguins bodily in between different genera of 

 auks. We have already had occasion to speak of this as " a great 

 blemish" upon Mr. Gray's treatment of these two families, and 

 our former opinion is strengthened with the increase of our know- 

 ledge upon the subject. In the " Genera," Mr. Gray adopts three 

 genera for the Spheniscidee, giving good characters and faithful 

 illustrations. We believe the division to be a very close approxi- 

 mation to the natural order in fact, we are not sure that these 

 three genera are not a more truthful expression of fact than the 

 four we are led to adopt in the present paper. Mr. Gray cata- 

 logues the species known at that date, but we do not think he is 

 in this matter nearly so successful as in his generic divisions. 

 (See 1811, Gray, below.) A beautiful colored plate (pi. 176) illus- 

 trates Eudyptes pachyrhyncha, Gray. The article is one of the 

 few that the student can confidently consult to gain a clear gene- 

 ral idea of the subject. 



1850-56. Bonaparte, ? I do not know where this author 



has treated of the penguins, and none of the authorities consulted 

 give any reference. According to quotations, he has instituted a 

 genus Eudyptila upon Aptenodytes minor, Forst., and has renamed 

 the two species of Aptenodytes that Gray named forsteri and pen- 

 nantii, calling them imperator and rex respectively. There is no 

 excuse whatever for this. 



1858. Cassin, U. S. Exploring Expedition, Birds. Uniting 

 Peale's field studies with an accurate determination of the species, 

 Mr. Cassin's article on the penguins is one of special importance. 

 After examination of the original specimens themselves, we find 

 Mr. Cassin's identifications correct throughout ; but, for some 

 reason, Eudyptes catarractes does not appear, although several 

 specimens were brought home by the Expedition, as shown in the 

 body of this paper. 



1859. Gould, P. Z. S. 98. Mentions several penguins in a 

 list of birds from the Falkland Islands. 



. 18G0. Abbott, Ibis. 336. The demersa of this author, accord- 

 ing to Gray and Sclater, is of the variety magellanicus. Gray 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



puts Abbot's chrysocome as a synonym of nigrivestis, Gould ; 

 but as this last is a synonym of chrysocome, Forst, the affair 

 seems to odd itself even. 



1860. Sclater, P.Z. S. 382. In a catalogue of the Falkland 

 Islands' Avifauna, the author gives (p. 392) five species of pen- 

 guins (pennantii, mag ell aniens, chrysolopha, chrysocome, Forst. 

 and ivagleri, Scl.). He is, we think, perfectly justified in cancelling 

 Scopoli's name "papua" on the score of geographical inapplica- 

 bility, but in proposing to call the species after Wagler, has he 

 not overlooked Peale's prior designation? (For additions and 

 corrections, cf. Id. ibid., 1861, 45.) 



1860. Gould, P. Z. p. 418. Two new species of Eudyptes 

 are described. One of them, E. nigrivestis, is a synonym of 

 chrysocome, Foi'st. The other, E. diademata, is a valid species. 

 Both are from the Falklands. 



1861. Gould, Ann. Hag. N. H. 218. Notices of his crested 

 species. 



1865. Owen, P. Z. S. xxxiii. 438. Results of a post-mortem 

 examination of Aptenodytes " patachonica." 



1865. Pelzeln, Reise Novara,-p\. 5. Eudyptes "chrysocome" 

 with young, figured. 



1867 (originally 1840). Xitzsch, Pterylography {Ray Soc, 

 ed. Sclater). An important contribution of original and new 

 matter on the pterylosis of the family. 



1867. Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas, Urinatores. All the known 

 species of the family being represented in the Leyden Museum, 

 this article is, in effect, a monograph of the Spheniscidse ; and it 

 is, in every respect, the most satisfactory treatise upon the subject 

 that has appeared, being as much superior to the contemporaneous 

 literature as Forster's was in its day and generation. As far as 

 the determination of the species is concerned, our own studies 

 bear out Dr. Schlegel's in every single instance ; indeed, it seems 

 to us impossible to reach any other conclusion, when any con- 

 siderable and sufficient amount of material is examined. The 

 present article of ours is so completely an indorsement of Dr. 

 Schlegel's, that the only points of difference are one or two unim- 

 portant synonymical determinations among the crested species, 

 which, after all, will probably remain matters of opinion. Dr. 

 Schlegel's analysis of the species is an excellent clue to their 

 determination. He presents five primary sections, the first repre- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



senting Aptenodytes, the fourth and fifth containing, respectively, 

 S. minor, and S. demersus with its variety magellanicus. The 

 third contains the four crested species (divided into that one with 

 the short tail, catarractes, and the three with longer tail, chryso- 

 come, cJirysoIopha, and diademata) in one sub-group, to which 

 antiptodes is added as a second sub-group. The second includes 

 the three longest-tailed species, adelise, papua, and antarctica. 

 The article is open to criticism on the score of the generic deter- 

 mination, we think, for we show, in another place, that there cer- 

 tainly are several well-marked modifications of cranial structure, 

 warranting, if not enforcing, as many generic divisions. But 

 even here the difference between Dr. Schlegel's results and our 

 own is rather apparent than real, for the divisions he makes seem 

 to correspond, in the main, with the genera we find it necessary to 

 adopt. (Cf. Newton, Zool. Bee. 1867, 124. Ibis, 1868, 110.) 



1867. Huxley, P. Z. S., 458. The penguins form the fourth 

 of the several third-rate groups into which the author proposes 

 to divide birds, in his celebrated "Classification," and are called 

 " Spheniscomorph a?" a name anticipated by Squamipennes, 

 Nullipennes, Impennes, Ptilopteri, and some other designations. 

 Of the nine sets of characters assigned, the fifth, sixth, seventh, 

 and eighth' are more or less perfectly diagnostic; the ninth is 

 shared by nearby all swimming and some wading birds; the fourth 

 and first are no more applicable to penguins than to a great many 

 other birds; the third is not likewise particularly pertinent, and 

 the second is untrue, so far as relates to the basipterygoid pro- 

 cesses these being present in some species of the family. The 

 group, it is said, " contains" the single family Apterodytidse, and 

 comprises three genera, Eudyptes, Spheniscus, and Apterodytes 

 [lege Aptenodytes]. It is probable that final determinations will 

 show that Prof. Huxle3''s views are perfectly sound in this last 

 particular. (Y. cranial characters, infra.) 



1868. Lecomte, P. Z. S. 527. Biographical. 



1869. Layard, Ibis, 378. On destruction of E. ehrysocome 

 in the Crozette Islands. 



1869. Buller, Trans. N. Zealand Inst., 112. Occurrence of 

 S. undinas (sc. minor) in New Zealand. 



1870. Finsch, P. Z. S. p. 332, pi. 25. A new species, Dasy- 

 rhamph it s herculis, is described and figured; it is the young of 

 adeliee, with the throat white, as indeed Mr. Gray had already de- 




180 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



termined iu the case of the British Museum specimen. A speci- 

 men in the Philadelphia Academy represents the same thing. 



1871. Gray, Hand-list, iii. pp. 98, 99. Mr. Gray retains the 

 Spheniscidee in the unnatural association with the Alcidee that we 

 have already been forced to criticize adversely. The three genera 

 he adopts appear to be well founded, the author here showing the 

 same admirable conservatism that guides his recognition of full 

 genera throughout the work ; but we think that some of the species 

 retained under subdivisions of his most extensive genus, Eudyptes, 

 are more different from each other than they are from species of 

 the other genera; and in this respect some change seems to be 

 desirable. But in the determination of the species Mr. Gray is 

 certainly wide of the mark ; assuredly, there are not nineteen of 

 them, as he gives. The list is much more useful as a guide to 

 one's own research than as a model to be copied. At the same 

 time, the synonymical discriminations are so accurately made that 

 little or no confusion results from the redundancy of species. 

 The only point concerning which we are at issue in the matter is 

 that Mr. Gray relegates chrysocome, Forst., to catarractes, leav- 

 ing his pachyrhyncha as the tenable name of a certain species, 

 whereas we agree with Dr. Schlegel, that chrysocome, Forst., is 

 different from catarractes, and is the prior name of what Gray 

 calls pachyrhyncha. The following reductions in the list appear 

 to be required : 



No. 10,806 to be united with No. 10,805. 



No. 10,804 to be united with No. 10,803. 



Nos. 10,802, 10,800, 10,199, 10,797 to be united with 10,790. 



No. 10,794 to be united with 10,793, and one of the s3 r nonyms 

 of 10,791 to be the name of 10,793. The valid numbers are there- 

 fore 10,790, 10,791, 10,792, 10,793, 10,795, 10,796, 10,798, 10,801, 

 10,803, 10,805, 10,807, 10,808. 



1871. Hyatt, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. This is, we believe, 

 the author's first appearance as an ornithologist ; but he shows 

 the trained naturalist here as elsewhere, bringing to bear upon the 

 subject the same qualities that have distinguished him in another 

 department of zoology. There is a certain freshness and origi- 

 nality in his treatment of the family that contrast by no means 

 unfavorably with more conventional writings of practised ornitho- 

 logists, and, in looking from a new stand-point, he has caught 

 sight of some things that persons accustomed to the birds have 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 181 



looked at without seeing. This more than compensates for some 

 slight deficiencies that, under the circumstances, we could not 

 reasonably expect to find supplied. The article modestly pro- 

 fesses to be simply a museum catalogue, but it possesses scien- 

 tific claims of a very high order. The pterylographic data repre- 

 sent a valuable supplement to Nitzsch's earlier notice. So far 

 as we know, Prof. Hyatt is the first naturalist who has attempted 

 an}' critical discrimination of the various types of the Spheniscidse 

 with a view of determining their precise relationship, and espe- 

 cially their genetic relations to each other and to a probable an- 

 cestral stock ; and this, we need not add, is work upon a higher 

 plane than the mere identification of species, or preparation of 

 descriptions and synonymy. We must refer to the paper itself 

 for the details that we cannot here enter upon. It will suffice to 

 say here, in heartily indorsing the author's plan of study and 

 concurring in his general conclusions, that he shows better reasons 

 for the genera he adopts than any one has hitherto given, and that 

 our own studies of osteological structure, as far as these go, are 

 emphatic evidence in favor of his views. 



18*72. Giebel, Thesaurus Ornithologise, erster Halbband, 390. 

 In this work, an alphabetical catalogue of the nominal species, 

 thirty-one in number, that were originally described under "Ap- 

 tenodytes," is given, with the reference of each to its proper 

 place. The determinations seem to be correct, with few excep- 

 tions. As the work has not progressed beyond the letter U A," 

 the remaining names are not accounted for. 



II. ON CERTAIN POINTS OF CRANIAL STRUCTURE 

 BEARING UPON THE DETERMINATION OF THE 

 GENERA. 



Some authors have rested content with referring all the penguins 

 to a single genus, adopting either the name Aptenodytes or Sphe- 

 niscus; and there is some show of reason for this, in the fact that 

 all the representative species are singularly interrelated in various 

 points of form. But this is simply defining a genus upon the 

 identical grounds that indicate the family. Others, going to the 

 opposite extreme, have instituted or adopted a genus for every 

 leading species, though in so doing they have been of course un- 

 able to assign characters of more than specific value. To recon- 




182 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



cile these conflicting views, and, if possible, to fix this question of 

 the genera with reasonable certitude, has been one object of the 

 present investigation. I found that any division of the species 

 according to the details of external form, as the size, shape, and 

 extent of feathering of the bill, length of tail, presence of peculiar 

 ptilosis, etc., would be, for the reason just alluded to, an elevation 

 of various characters, properly to be regarded as specific, to 

 generic rank ; while the ignoring of these would force me to the 

 other extreme of recognizing a single genus virtually equivalent 

 to the famil3 T itself. It seemed to me that, if there were true 

 genera among the penguins, the fact would appear from examina- 

 tion of internal structure ; and, having a number of skulls at com- 

 mand, I directed my attention to these. As far as my material 

 goes, the results of this investigation are to me highly satisfactory. 

 At the same time, having examined the skulls of only a limited 

 number of species, I cannot fix the generic status of all of them, 

 nor even say how far, if at all, the skulls of the species not ex- 

 amined may show inteygradation between the types of structure 

 herewith detailed. 



The skulls examined show three positively different patterns. 



A. The first is that presented by Aptenodytes pennantii. The 

 rostrum is much longer than the rest of the skull, attenuate, 

 particularly narrow and acuminate. The nasal opening is cor- 

 respondingly long and narrow. The upper prong of the nasal 

 bone is anclrylosed with the nasal prong of the prem axillary. The 

 palatines are anchylosed with the maxillae. The zygomata dip 

 downward moderately from the maxillo-jugal suture. The man- 

 dible is not abruptly deepened in any part of its length, and shows 

 a long narrow vacuhVy at the juncture of its symphyseal with the 

 succeeding elements. The angle of the mandible lies directly 

 below a perpendicular let fall from the mastoid. The interorbital 

 space on the top of the skull is broad and smooth, since the rough 

 depressions for the lodgment of the glands are narrow, and ter- 

 minate befoi'e reaching the anteorbital prominences. The tem- 

 poral fossae are very shallow, widely apart, and merely separated 

 by a slight bony ridge from the slight depression between them- 

 selves and the cerebellar protuberance. The greatest width of the 

 skull is one-third, or less, of its entire length. 



B. The second modification is afforded by the crested species 

 (Eudyptes proper). (PI. 4, fig. 1.) The rostrum is shorter or no 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



longer than the rest of the skull, very stout, in particular extremely 

 broad and obtuse. The nasal opening is correspondingly short. 

 The upper prong of the nasal bone is partly or wholly free from 

 the premaxillary. (Fig. 2.) The palatines are imperfectly anchy- 

 losed with the maxillae. The zygomata are extremely curved, 

 looping downward from the maxillo-jugal suture. The mandible 

 is abruptly deepened at its middle into a broad plate, and shows 

 no vacuity between the symphyseal and following elements. The 

 angle of the mandible lies in front of the mastoid plane. The 

 smooth interorbital space is narrow on top of the skull, since the 

 glandular depressions reach the anteorbital prominences. The 

 temporal fossae are very shallow, widely apart, and merely sepa- 

 rated from the depression between themselves and the cerebellar 

 protuberance by a slight bony ridge. The greatest width of the 

 skull is nearly half its length. 



C. Spheniscus demersus shows a third modification. (Figs. 3, 4.) 

 The rostrum is longer or no shorter than the rest of the skull, 

 very stout, in particular extremely deep, with the apex hooked 

 above, truncate below. The nasal opening is correspondingly 

 short. The upper prong of the nasal bone is almost completely 

 anchylosed with the premaxillary. The palatines are extensively 

 anchylosed with the maxillae. The zygomata are curved but 

 slightly downward. The mandible is deepened very slightly and 

 gradually, and shows no vacuity between the symphyseal and 

 succeeding elements. The angle of the mandible is below, if not 

 behind the mastoid plane. The smooth interorbital space on top 

 is narrow or reduced to a ridge. The temporal fossae are ex- 

 tremely deep, meet each other on the median line on top of the skull, 

 and are completely isolated from the depressions on either side of 

 the cerebellar protuberance by a strong flange-like plate of bone. 

 The greatest width of the skull is about two-fifths of its length. 



It will be observed that each of these t}-pes has its own pecu- 

 liarities. Thus A stands alone in characters of the rostrum; C is 

 isolated in the singularity of its temporal fossae ; B is peculiar in 

 the dip of the jugal and depth of mandible ; and the other charac- 

 ters vary in intensity of expression with each one. But there are 

 in each case other characters that are shared with one other, but 

 not with both the others ; and it is these combinations that render 

 the three distinct. I propose to establish genera upon them. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



One skull of type B, of an undetermined species, 1 shows, among 

 some peculiarities that I regard as simply specific, the presence 

 of small and slender but perfectly plain basipterygoid processes, 

 of which I see no trace in any other specimen. 



As already intimated, I cannot say whether or not these cranial 

 types shade into each other, or whether species not examined do 

 not show something different from either of these three patterns, 

 nor, finally, with which one of the three the unexamined species may 

 aoree. It seems to me that the species minor agrees so closely in 

 external characters with C that its reference to the genus Sphe- 

 niscus is warranted. For the same reasons, the species antipodes 

 seems allied to B. In the uncertainty at present attaching to 

 papua, adeliee, and antarctica, it may be best to leave these to 

 stand on their own merits in the genus " Pygoscelis," which, how- 

 ever, can then only be characterized by the extreme length of the 

 tail and the feathering of the bill, since the form of the bill differs 

 o-reatly in each of the three. These genera would correspond 

 very nearly with the sections Dr. Schlegel has indicated, and are 

 exactly those of Prof. Hyatt. The latter has shown how difficult 

 it is to define the genera, seeing that they vary with whatever 

 character we take as our guide. On the whole, I think it most 

 probable that no more than three genera will be finally deter- 

 minable, namely, Aptenodytes, Eudyptes, and Spheniscus, though 

 the second of these may contain subgenera, based upon shape 

 and feathering of the bill, presence or absence of crests, and 



length of tail. 



The cranial characters just described will be readily appreciated 



by reference to the accompanying figures (Fig. 4), kindly drawn for 

 this paper by my friend, Frof. Morse. It was not thought neces- 

 sary to o-ive a figure of Aptenodytes, as a beautiful engraving has 

 already been presented in Frof. Brandt's invaluable article. These 

 figures are all of two-thirds size; those representing vertical views 

 show the skull from above, on the one side, and from below 

 (with the mandible removed) on the other side, of the median 



lengthwise line. 



In its general characters the skull conforms to the ordinary 

 pygopodous type. The palate is schizognathous. The inter- 



It seems to be not one of the crested species, and I suspect that it is " Da- 

 syrllamphus ,, adeliw, but there is no certainty about this. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



or.bital septum lias a large vacuity ; its thickened lower border 

 curves gently forward and upward. The vomer is slight and 

 readily detached. The optic foramina are merged in a large 

 vacuity ; the foramina in front of the ear are large and distinct. 

 The mastoid and postorbital are both prominent ; the depressions 

 for lodgment of the gland are well marked. The pterygoids are 

 remarkable for their breadth anteriorly, forming somewhat tri- 

 angular lammas, instead of irregular cylinders of bone. The 

 palatines are large, very broad posteriorly, and thin. The max- 

 illo-palatines, on the other hand, are very small and simple. The 

 very large and irregular lachrymals are permanently free from 

 surrounding bones, and seem to be usually (but not always) fenes- 

 trated with a large foramen. A prominent peculiarity of the 

 skull is the loose connection of the bones of both jaws. The 

 nasals are never entirely confluent with either maxillaries or pre- 

 maxillaries, and they are sometimes distinct throughout. The 

 posterior ends of the median prongs of the premaxillaries commonly 

 remain distinct from the nasals embracing them, and frequently 

 are not even anchylosed with each other. Traces of the rnaxillo- 

 premaxillary, maxillo-palatal,and maxillo-jugal sutures are usually 

 very plain ; and in the lower jaw, most of the original elements 

 remain more or less distinct throughout life. None of the cranial 

 bones appear to be pneumatic. 



An incomplete skeleton of Aptenodytes pennantii furnishes the 

 following additional osteological data (PI. 5; figs, all of nat 

 size) : 



All the bones of the wing are flat and solid. 



The humerus (Fig. 5), about 4^ inches long, has an average 

 width of an inch, and a thickness of about of an inch. IUs 

 perfectly laminar, except the globular expansion at its head. This 

 portion lies oblique to the general axis of the bone, the general 

 convexity of the articular surface presenting inward and back- 

 ward. The whole of this expanded surface is, in effect, the dome 

 roofing over an immense antrum, into which the whole end of 

 one's finger may be thrust. The articular surface is somewhat 

 crescentic in general outline ; anteriorly it slopes to the promi- 

 nence representing the "greater tuberosity," which is directly 

 continuous with the front edge of the bone. Inside this ridge 

 there is a deep groove, and along the inner border of the articular 

 surface lie two fossae separated by a ridge. But the distal extrem- 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



ity of the bone is still more peculiar showing a characteristic of 

 the family only shared, to a certain extent, by Alca impennis. (Fig. 

 6). The bone is cut off obliquely, at an angle of about 45, with 

 a straight edge. The anterior three-fifths of this is occupied with 

 the two facets for articulation with the bones of the forearm. 

 These facets are continuous, and the radial one scarcely shows 

 the particular elliptical shape common among birds. The pos- 

 terior extremity of this oblique end of the humerus is prolonged 

 far beyond the true elbow joint, furnishing a resting place for the 

 two large anconal sesamoids. The very end is deeply grooved, 

 and another similar groove is impressed upon the bone on the 

 outside, a little higher up. The sesamoids are in these grooves. 

 The structure of the elbow is such as to allow but very restricted 

 motion ; the forearm can be flexed out slightly from its usual posi- 

 tion of nearly complete extension. 



The larger, outer one of the two sesamoids is an irregularly 

 discoidal bone, with a smooth, flat, external face, and curved outer 

 border; its sharpened edge fits in the upper of the two grooves 

 at the extremity of the humerus; the prominence of the hu- 

 merus that defines this groove abuts against a slight excavation on 

 the outer surface of the sesamoids. The smaller sesamoid lies a 

 little behind and inside the other; it has one flat face applied 

 against the surface of the other, an irregular surface with a cen- 

 tral ridge fitting into the extreme groove of the humerus, and a 

 long, curved, postero-external free border. These sesamoids, 

 borne upon the most projecting point of the humerus, afford an 

 extremely powerful leverage for extension of the forearm. 



The ulna and radius are similar to each other in general appear- 

 ance, both being laminar, like the humerus, with a sudden thick- 

 ening and constriction at the proximal extremity, so that the 

 articular facets are irregularly circular. The distal extremity of 

 the ulna is pretty effectually divided into two facets, a posterior 

 excavation in which the head of the ulnare articulates, and a 

 superior prominence abutting against a surface of the radiale. The 

 distal extremity of the radius shows a single convex articular sur- 

 face fitting the concavity of the radiale. The outer surface is 

 obliquely impressed for a long distance with a distinct groove for 

 a tendon ; the anterior margin of the radius is a straight, sharp 

 crest, more prominent than the opposite edge of the ulna. The 

 two bones of the forearm have verv intimate relations to each 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



other only at their proximal extremity, being barely in mutual 

 contact at the wrist ; but in consequence of their straightness, 

 their edges lie parallel in the continuity not presenting the ellip- 

 tical interspace commonly seen in birds' forearms. 



The radiale is not specially noteworthy (Fig. 7), being a simple, 

 somewhat cubical nodule with distal and proximal articular con- 

 cavity for the metacarpus and radius respectively, another articu- 

 lar face for the protuberance of the ulna, two free faces, and an 

 anterior extremity for tendinous attachment. The ulnare, on the 

 other hand, is of extraordinary, if not unique, shape and size. It 

 develops an immense lamellar expansion of the curious shape 

 shown in the figure, the real body of the bone appearing as a mere 

 process wedged in betwixt the ends of the ulna and metacarpus. 

 If, as I presume, the flexor carpi ulnaris has its customary inser- 

 tion into this bone, the increase of leverage must be enormous. 



The single metacarpal bone is peculiar in several respects. It 

 bears no pollical phalanx, and the crest that ordinarily indicates, 

 in the composition of this bone, the originally distinct radial met- 

 acarpal is here obscure, not being differentiated to any consider- 

 able degree from the general laminar expansion. The ulnar 

 metacarpal has no convexity; its fusion with the main metacarpal 

 is perfect for nearly its proximate half, and again at the distal 

 extremity a narrow linear fenestration separating it in the rest 

 of its extent. The head of the bone represents one continuous 

 articular surface for the radiale and ulnare, flat sideways, strongly 

 convex fore and aft. At the distal extremity, however, there are 

 two perfectly distinct articular facets an oval one for the radial 

 phalanx, and a small circular one for the ulnar phalanx. The bone 

 is nearly three inches long, and rather less than one-third as broad. 



The proximal radial phalanx is a straight, flattened, rectangu- 

 lar blade of bone, with four sharp corners, a sharp anterior and 

 posterior border, and an oval articular surface at either end. It 

 is two inches long and half an inch broad. The distal phalanx is 

 simply a flattened spur, with sharp edges, tapering to an obtuse 

 . point; it is about half an inch long. The ulnar digit, however, is 

 of unusual size, reaching beyond the end of the proximal radial 

 phalanx. It lias a stoul, head, whence a process is developed, and 

 then tapers regularly to the end. It is less obviously flattened 

 than the other bones of the hand. 



The bones of the leg conform closely to the general pygopodous 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



type. The patella, however, is of immense size, and of an indes- 

 cribable, irregular shape. According to Owen, it develops from 

 two centres a matter interesting in connection with the presence 

 of two sesamoids in the elbow. The tibia is a bone about eight 

 inches long, and nearly cylindrical in its continuity. It closely 

 corresponds, in general, with the same bone of a loon, for example, 

 except that it does not develop the long apophysis above the 

 knee-joint. There is a considerable protuberance, however, above 

 the plane of the. articulation, formed by the extension of two sharp 

 cnemial ridges that meet above, defining a long deep fossa that lies 

 between them. The distal extremity offers nothing peculiar; the 

 osseous bridge for confinement of the flexor tendons is perfect, 

 and the trochlear surface has the usual configuration. The fibula 

 is six inches long, and extremely slender from above the middle 

 downwards. It abuts against the tibia at both ends, and also 

 for about an inch of its length at a place nearly half-way down. 

 Elsewhere, the interspace between the two bones is considerable. 



The ankle-joint has a peculiar free, persistent ossicle, about the 

 size and shape of a split pea. It appears to be a sesamoid, and it 

 lies on the posterior aspect of the joint ; but owing to an unfor- 

 tunate inadvertence in the preparation of the specimen, its exact 

 position and relations were not made out. 



The tarso-metatarsus (Fig. 8) is the most remarkable bone of 

 the skeleton in several respects, and the one more particularly 

 diagnostic of the family. Penguins afford probably the only in- 

 stances, among recent birds, of width crosswise being decidedly 

 greater than thickness antero-posteriorly, and more than half the 

 length; and the only case of persistence throughout life of fenes- 

 tra; marking the composition of the bone of three originally dis- 

 tinct metatarsals. In the present species, the bone is rather under 

 two inches long, from an inch to one inch and a third wide at 

 different points. The front shows two deep grooves lengthwise 

 from one end to the other, and in each of these grooves there is 

 an oval perforation, that would about admit the passage of a 

 goose-quill. Behind, the corresponding grooves are nearly obso- 

 lete. The proximal extremity is an uninterrupted articular sur- 

 face for the tibial condyles, the inner impression being much the 

 more strongly marked. The distal extremity is deeply cleft in 

 two places, the three metacarpal prongs being coinpleteby isolated. 

 The central one of these projects beyond the lateral ones. The 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 189 



articular faces have the usual contour ; all being grooved perpen- 

 dicularly, and the lateral ones showing that ordinary but highly 

 interesting kind of obliquity, by means of which the toes, when 

 flexed, are brought side by side, and made to diverge from each 

 other when extended. 



In the dried bone, no special surface for attachment of the ac- 

 cessory metatarsal can be recognized. The first digit is extremely 

 small, completely lateral, closely joined with the base of the sec- 

 ond toe, and appears in its usual position during life to be turned 

 more or less completely forward. Technically, it may be consid- 

 ered "elevated," though the disparity in size between these and 

 the other toes is so great that it is difficult to say h,ow much, if 

 any, above the plane of the rest it is really situated. It appears 

 to have little or no functional importance, although all its bones 

 are present and morphically perfect. The accessory metatarsal is 

 a straight, slender bone, about half an inch long, irregularly flat- 

 tened ; the proximal phalanx is similar but still smaller, while the 

 distal phalanx is a mere spiculum about a fourth of an inch long. 



The other three toes are of ordinary size ; the middle one exceeds 

 trie outer a little, while the inner is considerably the shortest; all 

 show the normal number of phalanges (3-4-5, from 2d to 4th). 

 The phalanges of each toe, as usual, decrease in length and bulk 

 from first to last, and the corresponding ones of different toes 

 bear to each other the usual relative size. The distal phalanges 

 have enlarged processes for the support of the heavy, blunt claws, 

 and these processes are deeply grooved on each side. 



III. ON THE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE 



FAMILY. 



It is well known that the penguins are entirely confined to the 

 southern hemisphere, and their northern limit of dispersion is 

 probably ascertained with approximate accuracy. Their nearest 

 approach to the equator seems to be on the coast of South 

 America. According to Meyen, the S. "humboldtii" (demersus) 

 is abundant in the harbor of Callao, Peru, lat. 10 S. ; while this 

 Spheniscus reaches on the other side of this continent to Southern 

 Brazil, and Ascension Island, lat. 8 S. (Licht.). Dr. Schlegel 

 places the African limit at 25, and the Australian at 35 S., 

 properly ignoring the accounts of Sonnerat, whose representations 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of the occurrence of penguins, as given in his " Voyage," are in 

 all probability erroneous. On the other band, some species of 

 penguins have been found apparently as far as voyagers have 

 penetrated toward the pole. Such highly antarctic species are 

 the Pygoscelis adeli.se, and antarctica, named from their habitat, 

 and the Aptenodyles patachonica, seen by Peale in lat. 66 52'. 



The Falkland Islands appear to be a centre of the family, no 

 less than half of the known species occurring there. 



A number of the species are very extensively dispe rsed, having, 

 as it were, a circumpolar mode of distribution. Such are some 

 of the crested species, the " papuan" penguin, and especially the 

 Spheniscus demersus. This last appears to have the most exten- 

 sive distribution, both in latitude and in longitude, of any ; and 

 since it varies, like other birds, with a change of habitat, this may 

 account for the exceptional number of nominal species that have 

 been established at its expense. As far as is known, two species 

 constitute an exception to the general rule, being confined to a 

 comparatively limited area ; these are the Spheniscus minor and 

 Eudyptes antipodes, inhabiting the Australian region. 



As Dr. Schlegel remarks, the precise habitat of each species 

 cannot be given as yet; and this will not be possible without 

 much more information than we now possess, respecting the 

 places where the different species propagate, and especially in 

 regard to their movements, whether irregular and contingent, or 

 periodical, according to season of the year. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



191 





o 



CO 

 i ( 



W 

 Ph 

 CO 







ii 

 O 

 W 

 Oh 

 CC 



CO 



I I 



a 



CO 





 ft 



H 



co 

 w 

 H 

 o 

 <! 

 W 

 Pi 

 Pi 



< 

 O 



CO 



1=1 



o 



CO 



o 



6 

 o 



CO 



a 



+3 



CO 



O 



> 

 03 



o3 



3 

 o3 



"> 



0> 



CO 



to 



< ft 



r 







a 



o 

 o 



CO 



>* 



Pi 



a 



o 



a 



Ph 

 O 



o 



Pi 



w 



CO 



w 

 o 

 o 



Ph 

 i i 

 H 



Pi 



H 



CO 



O 

 Pi 



h- 1 



o 



O 



ft 



o 



I I 



o 

 o 



H 



H 



i i 



H 

 H 

 P-5 



H 

 O 



H 



CO 



ft 

 CO 



a pi 

 s w 



cc 



w 

 ft 



CO 



ft 



<! 



t-< 



ft 



<5 



C 

 cp 

 o 



CO 



o 



CO 



r 1 "^ 



o 



O 

 o 



bfi 

 c3 



a 

 I 



to 



a 

 "a 

 a 

 a 

 o 



e 



o 



CO 



1=1 



O 

 CO 



O 



o 

 6 



o 



CO 



CO I 



.r- CO 



CO +J 



S o 



o3 



CO 



O 



in 



o 



o 

 p 

 a 



CO 



o 



CO 

 0> 



ft- -< 



s 1 



s a 



9 ^ 



eo 



to 



-to 

 CO 



O 



J 



b> 



K 



o 



oi 



58 

 to 



o 

 p 

 a 







CO 



H 

 CO 



Pi 

 Q 



H 

 <J 



H 



CO 

 hH 

 PS 



o 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



IY. DETERMINATION OF THE SPECIES. 



APTENODYTES PATAGONICA, Forst. 



Aptenodytes patachonica, Forst., Comm. Soc. Eeg. Sc. Gotting. iii. 1781, 

 137, pi. 2. Gm., S. N. i. 1788, 556 (in part : confounds the two species). 

 Lath., Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, 878 (in part : same as Gmelin's). 



Spheniscus patagonicus, Schleg., Mus. P.-B. livr. 9me. 1866, Urin, p. 3. 



Aptenodytes forsteri, Gray., Ann. Nat. Hist. 1844, 315; Handl. iii. 99. 



Aptenodytes imperator, Bonap. 



Pennant, Gen. of B. pi. 14 ; T. F. Miller, 111. Nat. Hist. pi. 20. 



Habitat. Maribus antarcticis. 



Maximus inter omnes ; maxilla ultra medium ptilosa, tarsis antice lateri- 

 busque mandibular magna ex parte ptilosis ; rostro pedibusque crassiusculis 

 pro genere Aptenodytis, ung'uibus maximis obtusissimis : notseo nigro et 

 cceruleo permixto, gastrseo albo, gula nigricante, ea pictura infra cordiforme; 

 lateribus colli flavicantibus, summa parte flavissima, necnon stria nigra 

 bnmeris anteducta notatis, rostro pedibusque nigris, lateribus mandibular 

 erubescentibus. 



Mus. Smiths. No. 15,666, adult, taken Januaiy 23, 1840, in lat. 

 66 52' S., long. 150 25' E. from Greenwich; H. Eld, 17. S. 

 Expl. Exped.: basis of Peale, pp. 258, 335, sp. No. 691, and of 

 Cassin, pp. 349, 450, sp. No. 681. This specimen, as mounted, 

 stands about 3|- feet high, but appears somewhat overstuffed; 

 wing 14 inches, tail about 3, bill along culmen 3, along gape 

 almost 5, from antiaa to tip of bill 2. The bill is feathered beyond 

 its middle, the antire reaching more than half-way from angle of 

 the mouth to tip, and these feathers conceal the maxillar tomia 

 for a srreat distance. On the under mandible the feathers com- 

 pletely fill the interramal space, and also cover much of the side 

 of the lower mandible, leaving, towards the base, only the ex- 

 panded and colored edge of the mandible naked. The tarsi are 

 entirely covered with feathers, which furthermore overlie the toes 

 for some distance ; but on]y a part of the tarsus is implanted 

 with feathers, the rest being reticulate with small six-sided plates, 

 as are also the upper surfaces of the toes, except just at the end, 

 where there are 2-3 annular scales. The hallux is minute, rela- 

 tively smaller than in any other species, and almost perfectly 

 antrorse ; the lateral toes are sub-equal to each other, but the 2d 

 is a little shorter than the 4th ; the tips of the claws of both 

 overreach the base of the 3d claw. Claws enormously stout and 

 blunt; 2d 1.20, 3d 1.50, 4th 1.25 long. This bird appears to be 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



in perfect plumage ; the upper parts are intimately mingled black 

 and blue, but the latter gives the general impression ; the black 

 of the throat is short, and ends abruptly with a broad cordiform 

 outline below; the forepart and sides of the neck appear to have 

 been yellower than they are now, but the club-shaped upper ter- 

 mination of this colored area is still very yellow ; in the whitish 

 of the sides of the neck stands an isolated black stripe, running 

 upward from the shoulder, stopping abruptly, not reaching the 

 gular black. The wings are entirely white beneath. The under 

 mandible is still richly colored posteriorly ; the rest of the bill, 

 and the whole feet and nails, are black. 



APTENODYTES LONGIROSTRIS, Seopoli. 

 Patagonian Pinguin, Pennant., Phil. Trans, lviii. 1768, 91, pi 5 Lath 



Gen. Syn. vi. 5G3 ; Gen. Hist., x. 390 ; in part : confuses both species " 

 Aptenodytes patagonica, Pennant. 

 Aptenodytes patachonica, Gm., S. N. i. 55(5 (in part; confounds the two 



species.) Lath., Ind. Orn. ii., 1790, 878 (same as Gmelin's) 

 Pmguinaria patachonica, Shaw., Nat. Misc. 1799, xi. pi. 409 (nee Forst ) 

 Aptenodytes longirostris, Scopoli ; Sonn., Voy. N. Guin 180 pi 113 

 Aptenodytes pennantii, Gkat, Ann. Nat. Hist. 1844, 315 Gould P Z 



S 1859, 98 ; Scl., Ibid. I860, 392. Hyatt, Pr. Bost. Soc' N. H 187l' 

 Sphemscus pennantii, Schlegel, Urin. M. P.-B. 1806, 3; Schlegel, De 



Aptenodytes rex, Bonap. 



Woolly pinguin, Lath., Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 292, pi. clxxxi.; young i n the 

 down (also, "hairy pinguin," ibid. ?). ' * & 



P1 en^irelJ n n aked) 7 ' 5 ^^ UUmistakably the side of the ^der mandible 

 l&Wtofc-Maribiia australibus. Ins. Falklandicis, Kergueleni, Stewartii. 

 Apt, patachonica; similis, sed multo minor, rostro artubusque pro statura 

 longionbus, tarsis lateribusque mandibulae omnino nudis, unguibus gracilio 

 nbus^noteonigro et coeruleo permixto, gastrseo albo, gula nigricante ea 

 pictura mfra aculeata, linea flava jugulari media summa parte furcata, pic- 

 turam mgram gularem inter ramos snos amplectante, deinde per latere 

 utroque colli porrecta et illic maculam flavissimam formante ; rostro pedi- 

 busque nigns, mandibula nigra ex parte erubescente. 



Mus. Smiths. No 59,243, in perfect plumage ; from the Falkland 

 islands. Skin a yard long, but somewhat stretched ; probably was 

 about 30 inches in life ; wing about 12 ; tail 4 ; tarsus, measured in 

 Iront (where all our other measurements of tarsi are taken), 1 50 

 middle toe and claw 4 ; culmen of bill 3.25; gape 4.50; from antte 




194 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



to tip of bill 2.50. While a much smaller bird than patachonica 

 (Forsteri), it is thus seen that the wings, tail, and feet are rela- 

 tively longer, and that the bill, besides being relatively longer, 

 is actually made of equal length, if not absolutely longer, in con- 

 sequence of the less extent to which the feathers of the front 

 encroach upon the upper mandible, the antioe falling short of half 

 the distance between angle of the mouth and tip of the bill. 

 Another and yet stronger character is, that the sides of the under 

 mandible are entirely naked, whereas in patachonica (Forst.) the 

 feathers encroach so much that hindwards only the tomial edge of 

 the mandible remains bare. This difference heightens the seeming 

 greater size of the bill of pennantii ; it likewise makes the brightly 

 colored area larger, and gives it a different shape. The tarsi of 

 pennantii are entirely naked, and not even hidden hy the tibial 

 plumes ; whereas in patachonica (F.) the tarsi are largely ptilose, 

 and wholly hidden by feathers, as are also the bases of the toes. 

 The general pictura of the plumage is the same ; but the neck 

 shows a very noticeable difference, the gnlar black running far 

 down in a sharp point embraced betwixt the forks of the narrow 

 median anterior jugular line of \ r ellow that after bifurcating 

 mounts on either side of the neck and head, there to form a large 

 very yellow spot, bounded immediately by the dark color of the 

 neighboring parts ; and moreover, the isolated black line running 

 up in the whitish of the side of the neck from the shoulder 

 towards the throat, as observed in the Smithsonian specimen of 

 patagonica, is not seen here. 



I am not satisfied, however, that these precise points of color- 

 ation are sufficiently distinctive of the species as compared with 

 its congener. It is probable that the only reliable characters are 

 to be found in the larger size, proportionally shorter members, 

 much more extensively feathered bill, and feathered tarsi, of 

 patagonica ; and all these points seem to be accounted for by a 

 difference in habitat, patagonica being more decidedly antarctic 

 than longirostris. 



No. 11,976. Mus. S. I. (Osteological Register.) From the 

 Falkland Islands, received through Mr. Salvin, with No. 59,243. 



No Mus. Acad. Fhilada. No locality given. Fill from 



forehead 3.15, from nasal feathers 2.75, from gape 5.25. Tarsus, 

 middle toe, and claw together, 6 inches; wing from the shoulder 1 

 foot. A fine specimen, in perfect plumage. The intense yellow 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



club-shaped spots mount to the very summit of the occiput, being 

 there separated only about one inch from each other. They are 

 bordered behind by a sharp narrow black edging, distinctly de- 

 fined against the neighboring blue ; this black margin nearly meets 

 its fellow on the front of the neck, then passes down along the 

 edge of the blue on each side, widening as it descends beyond the 

 wing where it is finally dissipated. 



No Mus. Acad. Philada. No locality recorded ; in 



perfect plumage, but the bright tints not so vivid as in the pre- 

 ceding. Bill from forehead 3.75, along side of lower mandible 

 5 inches. 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc. Straits of Magellan, Coll. La Fres- 

 naye. {Hyatt.) 



PYGOSCELIS T.ENIATA (Pealej. 



Le manchot papou, Sonkekat, Voy. 181, pi. 115. 



Papuan Pinguin, Lath., Gen. Syn. vi. 5G5, and Gen. Hist. x. 388. 



Aptenodytes papua, Forst., Comm. Soc. Reg. Gotting. iii. 1781, p. 140, 



pi. 3. Bonnaterre, Ency. Method, i. 1782, p. 67, pi. 17, f. 3. Gm., S. 



N. i., 1788, 556. Lath., Ind. Orn. ii., 1790, 879. Vieillot, Gal. Ois. 



pi. 299. Gray, Voy. Ereb. and Terr. pi. 25. 

 Eudyptes papua, Cassin, Orn. U. S. Expl. Exp. 1858, 264. Gould, P. Z. 



S. 1839, 98. 

 Splieniscus papua, Schlegel, Urin. M. P.-B. iii. 1866, 5. 

 Eudyptes {Pygoscelis) papua, Gray, Handl. iii. 1871, 98. 

 Pygoscelis papua, Hyatt, Proc. Bost, Soc. N. H. 1871, p. 

 Aptenodytes tceniata, Peale, Orn. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1848, 264. 

 Pygoscelis wagleri, Sclater, P. Z. S. 1860, 392, No. 46. 

 "Pygoscelis papuensis, Van Der Hoeven." {Gray.) 



Habatat maribus australibus. Ins. Falklandicis, Kergulenii, Macquarii. 

 Nee. Ins. Papua, unde patet, nomen Scopolianum ineptum. 



Statura medius ; notaeo cum capite gulaque griseo-nigro, cceruleo-tincto, 

 gastrseo albo, vertice transversim albo-lunato, alis albo-marginatis, cauda 

 elongata, cuneata, rectricibus sexdecem, exterioribus albo-marginatis. 



May be known at a glance, by the white semilune across the 

 crown from one eye to the other, long tail (about as in adeliae), 

 and long slender much feathered bill, approximating to that of 

 A])tenodytes. 



No. 2282, Mus. Acad. Phila., adult, " lies Croquets." Stands 

 25 inches high, but may be stretched. Tail about 5h inches, the 

 outer feathers white-edged. Middle toe and claw 3.40. Tarsus 

 quite naked, a little over an inch long. Wing 9 inches, the postc- 




19G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



rior border broadly white. The bill of this species stands quite 

 alone among the penguins, saving Aptenodytes, in its length and 

 slenderness and in the length combined with narrowness of the 

 frontal antiae. Whilst the culmen measures 2.75, the distance from 

 the nasal feathers to the tip of the bill is only about 1.G0 ; the 

 nostrils are completely hidden, and not easy to discover in the 

 dried state. The bill is really longer than it looks, the rictus 

 measuring 5 inches ; the progression of the feathers on the bill is 

 a condition essentially similar to that of adelise: although the bills 

 of the two look so different, this is merely due to the length of 

 the terminal part in tseniata. If the terminal portion were cut off 

 an inch, the bill of tseniata would be essentially similar to that of 

 adelise. Sharing other features, especially the very long tail, adelise 

 and tseniata seem to be most closely related species ; and despite 

 the difference in the bill, I think that the skulls of the two will be 

 found of a single pattern. Some ornithologist will do good service 

 by noticing the skulls and seeing whether they agree, and if so, 

 how they compare with the three types of cranial structure. I am 

 induced to surmise that the resemblance will be found closest with 

 Apfenodytes. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Philada. No locality recorded. In this 

 specimen, apparently not quite mature, the fore half of the body 

 above is gray, in decided contrast with the blue-blackish of the 

 rest. The coronal crescent is evident. The bill appears to have 

 been clear yellow, with black ridge and tip. 



No. . . . Mus. Smiths. Inst. U. S. Expl. Exped., H. Eld, from 

 Macquarie's Island, where Mr. Peale sa} T s (1. c.) it was found 

 breeding in abundance, in Januaiy, with Crested Penguins. 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc, no locality given, Coll. La Fresnaye 

 (Hyatt). 



Dr. Schlegel quotes the Falklands, vo3 r age of the Astrolabe and 

 Zelee ; Mr. Graj', also, Kerguelen's Island. 



PYGOSCELIS ADELI2E (H. A J.). 



Catarraetes adelice, Homb. and Jacq., Ann. Sc. Nat. 1841, 320. 

 Dasyrtomphus adelice, Home, and Jacq., Voy. P. S., Ois. 184G, pi. 33, f. 1. 

 Eudyptes adelim, Cassin, Om. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1859, 3.J2, 4o0, No. G8.3. 

 Spheniseus adelim, Schlegl, Mus. Pays.-B. Urin. 9me. livr. 18GG, 4. 

 Eudyptes (Dasyrhamphus) adelim, Gray, Handl. iii. 1871, 99. 

 Pygoscelis adelice, Hyatt, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. 1871, p. . 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Pygoscelis hrevirostris, Gray, Voy. Ereb. and Terr. Birds, pi. 28. 

 Aptenodytes longicauda, Peale, U. S. Ex. Ex. Birds, 1848, p. 261, pi. 70, 



f. 2 ; p. 335, No. 696. 

 Eudyptes herculis, Finsch, P. Z. S. Lond. 1870, pi. 25. (Jut.) 



Habitat. In rrjaribus antarcticis : Adelia. Victoria. 



Statura medius, Cauda lougissirna, cuneata, rectricibus linearibus, rostro 

 brevi, crasso, recto, obtuso, ultra medium ptiloso, apice acUmco, naribus 

 plumis obtectis, palpebrarum margiuibus uudis, flavis ; uota?o fusco, 

 cceruleo-lavato, capite cum gula obscurioribus. 



No. 15,698, Mus. Smiths., adult in perfect plumage, mounted ; 

 from the Antarctic Ocean, lat. 64 40' S., long. 103 4' E. from 

 Greenwich, U. S. Expl. Exped., T. R. Peale : type of Ajrtenodytes 

 longicauda, Peale, I. c, and basis of Cassin's article, 1. c. The 

 tail is very long, the central feathers being upwards of 7 inches, 

 though the lateral are only about 2, in consequence of the extreme 

 graduation; all the rectrices are merely narrow linear laminae, like 

 pieces of whalebone with frayed edges. The tibial feathers cover 

 the tarsus in front, but none grow on the tarsus itself, which 

 is very short only about an inch. Middle toe ' and claw 3.00 ; 

 inner do. 2.25, outer do. 2.50 ; nails very long, but blunt ; webs 

 emarginate. The podotheca is entirely reticulate, except a few 

 annular scales at the ends of the toes. The bill is very short, 

 narrow and deep, and densely feathered beyond its middle. The 

 antia3 reach within an inch of the tip, entirely covering the nos- 

 trils ; the broad rounded-depressed and decurved culmen runs in 

 a point on the forehead ; its chord is 1.50 long. The feathers of 

 the antise, and those between the mandibular rami, slope so 

 obliquely and rapidly towards the edges of the bill, that the 

 naked portion of the tomia is only 1.75 inches long, though the 

 whole gape measures 2.50 ; the feathery extension in the inter- 

 ramal space is within .75 of the tip of the mandible. Depth of 

 bill at base over .90. The short nasal groove is very narrow and 

 oblique, running into the tomia behind the hooked portion, and 

 behind widening into a feathered fossa where the nostrils lie. This 

 specimen, as mounted, now stands a trifle over 2 feet high, but 

 measures about 33^ inches (its length in the flesh was 31 inches 

 Peale). The bill is wholly dark colored probably it showed 

 some reddish in life ; the feet appear to have been flesh-colored. 

 The naked edges of the eyelids are 3'ellow. The upper parts are 

 fuscous, only slightly lightened with penguin-blue, of which each 




'198 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



i 



feather shows a trace ; the whole head and upper throat are uni- 

 form smoky blackish-brown. 



No. 15,667, Mus. Smiths., adult, mounted, same locality as the 

 last, and perfectly similar : another example of Apt. longicauda, 

 Peale. 



Nc 793, Mus. Acad. Phila., adult, % ," lies Adelaides." En- 

 tirely similar to the foregoing. Tail 6.25 inches. I count 15 

 rectrices, and probably there were 16; none are white-edged in 

 this species as in lasniata. 



No. 2191, Mus. Acad. Phila., " New Zealand?" Yery smilar to 

 the last ; but apparently not quite adult, as the bill is weaker, and 

 there are white specks in the dusky part of the throat. 



No. 793fo's, Mus. Acad. Phila., received with No. 693, and from the 

 same locality. An immature bird, in the plumage of "Dasyrham- 

 phus herculis." The throat is white to the bill, but there are a few 

 scattered blackish feathers, showing incontestably that this part 

 would have become dark. 



Although we repose great confidence in the judgment of the 

 accomplished ornithologist who latety proposed to separate from 

 adeliee a specimen in Count Ercole Turati's collection, yet we 

 cannot hesitate to refer E. herculis to this species, even without 

 examining the t3'pe. For according to Dr. Finsch's own showing, 

 the only tangible difference lies in the white throat, which is surely 

 a mark of immature plumage, however adult the specimen may 

 otherwise appear. Every one of the black-throated penguins 

 (all the family except minor and antarcticus) have the throat white 

 at first ; and in several cases we have actually traced the change, 

 by insensible degrees. The British Museum examples, with white 

 throat, lately printed by Mr. Gray as "herculis," were never sus- 

 pected to be aught else than 3 7 oung adeliee, before Dr. Finsch's 

 article appeared. Dr. Schlegel reports a precisely similar " in- 

 dividu au premier plumage, de taille moins forte et offrant la gorge 

 blanche, terre Victoria, acquis in 1863 ;" and we recognize the 

 same condition in this one of the Academy's specimens. 



The Aptenodytes longicauda of Peale was promptly identified 

 with adelise by Cassin ; and Mr. Gray soon recognized the same 

 species in his Pygoscelis brevirostris. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 * 



PYGOSCELIS ANTARCTICA (Forst.). 



Antarctic Pinguin, Lath, Gen. Syn. vi. 565, and Gen. Hist. x. 389. 

 Aptenodytes antarctica, Forst., Comm. Soc. Reg. Sc. Gott, 1781, iii. 141, 



pi. 4. Gm., S. N. L. 1788, 557. Lath., Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, 879. 

 Eudyptes antarctica, Gray, Voy. E. and T., Birds, pi. 26. 

 Pygoscelis antarctica, Bonap. Hyatt, Proc. Bost. Soc. 1871. 

 Spheniscus antarcticus, Schleg., Urin. M. P.-B. iii. 1866, 5. 

 Eudyptes {Pygoscelis) antarctica, Gray, Handl. iii. 1871, 99. 



Habitat. Maribus aust. et antarct. Ins. Falklandicis, Weddelii. 



" Taille an dessous de la moyenne. Bee petit. Se distingue de toutes 

 les antres especes par le blanc occupant non senlement toutes les parties 

 inferieures jusqu'au menton, mais encore les cotes de la tete jusqu'a l'occi- 

 put et le bas des freins, et parceque ce blanc n'est interrompu que par une 

 raie noire entourant le devant de la gorge, traversant les joues, et se dirige- 

 ant sur le devant de la nuque. Bee noiratre. Pieds rougeatres." (ScnL.) 



" Length 21 to 22 inches ; tail 4i to 5| inches ; wing 1\ inches ; tarsus 

 29 to 30 lines ; middle toe 2 inches ; bill (along the side) 27 to 28 lines ; 

 from the forehead 18 lines ; height 7| lines." (Schlegel.) 



We have not seen this strongly marked species, and we are not 

 aware that there is more than one specimen in the United States. 

 This is in the Boston Society's Museum, and is an adult, from the 

 La Fresnaye Collection; no locality assigned. (Fide Hyatt.) 



The foregoing description is copied from Dr. Schlegel, who 

 quotes two specimens in the Leyden Museum, from the Falk- 

 land and Weddell's Islands (Voyage of the Astrolabe and Zelee). 



In the length of tail, feathering of the bill, and some other 

 characters, it seems related to tseniata and adeliee, and to be 

 referable to the genus Pygoscelis. It forms, with S. minor, an 

 exception to the general rule of coloration among penguins, in 

 that the throat persists white. 



EUDYPTES ANTIPODES (H. & J.), 



Catarrhactes antipodes, Homhr. and Jacq., Ann. Sc. Nat. 1841, 320. 



Id., Voy. an Pole Sud de PAst. et Zelee, pi. 33, f. 2. 

 Eudyptes antipoda, Gray, Voy. Ereb. et Terr. pi. 27. Cass., Ornith. 



U. S. Ex. Ex. 1859, 351, 450, No. 684. 

 Pygoscelis antipoda, Bonap. 



Spheniscus antipoda, Schleg., Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, 9me, 1866, 9. 

 Eudyptes {Pygoscelis) antipoda, Gray, Handl. iii. 1871, 99. 

 Aptenodytes flavilarvata, Peale, Orn. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1848, p. 260, pi. 70, f. 



1 ; p. 335, No. 695. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Habitat. Ins. Aucklandicis, Campbelliana. 



Statura niedius ; ecristatus, sed plumis capitis elongatis, linearibus ; ros- 

 tro brevi, crassiuscnlo, recto, apice niaxillte adunco, mandibulse subtrun- 

 cato ; cauda brevi, rotundata ; supra griseo-coeruleus dilutior, iufra albus, 

 sed gula, necnon lateribus colli summi eapitisque inflmi brunnescentibus ; 

 plui.ns elongatis genarum flavicantibus, verticis flavicantibus nigro-lineatis, 

 fasciis transocularibus in occiput conniventes flavioribus ; rostro pallide in- 

 carnate 



No. 15,655, Mus. Smiths., mounted, adult, in nearty perfect plu- 

 mage, from the Auckland Is., U. S. Ex. Ex., T. R. Peale : type of 

 Apt. Jfavilarvata Peale, I. c; basis of Cass. I. c. There are no 

 true lateral crests as in the typical species of Eudyptes, but all the 

 feathers of the face, and most of those of the crown, are length- 

 ened and linear. The yellow of the cheeks and crown has a dull 

 soiled shade, and that of the crown is sharply streaked with fine 

 black lines, one on each feather ; the unlengthened feathers of the 

 hind head, and those over the auriculars and through the e}-es, 

 form a well-marked band of much brighter and purer sulphur 3-el- 

 low ; the lower parts of the head, and uppermost of the neck, 

 including the throat, have a peculiar brownish cast ; and, alto- 

 gether, the head markings are unique in the family. The under 

 parts are white, up to the slight gular brownish just mentioned; 

 the upper parts are of a pale watery blue, more dilute than on an 

 average among the other species. The head markings, and length- 

 ened feathers of the vertex, together with the points of form here 

 to follow, show how the species is a link between true Spheniscus 

 and t} T pical Eudyptes. Bill stoutish, straight, tip fairly hooked, 

 but under mandible hardly truncate, nasal sulcus as usual. The 

 antise run out pointedly, about ^ of an inch be3 r ond base of cul- 

 men, but still do not conceal the nostrils ; from their apices, the 

 feathers rapidty retreat, to angle of the mouth, leaving the maxil- 

 lar tomia entirely bare, while those on the under mandible simi- 

 larly expose the whole tomia, although between the rami they 

 reach within less than an inch of the end of the bill. Chord of 

 culmen 2.10 ; depth of bill .85 ; antiae to tip 1.75 ; gape 3.00 : the 

 anterior canthus is just over the angle of the mouth. Tail very 

 short (under 2 inches), and much rounded, as in Spheniscus de- 

 mersus or minor. The whole length of the bird is somewhat over 

 2 feet. 



Schlegel reports one of the t3^pes of the species from the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



" Ocean Glacial Austral, Voyage de I'Astrolabe et de la ZeleV 

 According to Gray, the British Museum examples are from the 

 Auckland and Campbell's Islands. Judging from Mr. Peale's 

 account, the Aucklands are a headquarters of the species. 



The Aptenodytes Jiavilarvata of Peale was long ago referred 

 by Cassin to its proper place. 



ETTDYPTES CATARRHACTES (Forst.). 



Phaeton demersus, L., S. N i. 219, nee Diomedea demersa, ibid. 214 



Based on Edw. 49, and Briss. vi. 102. 

 Aptenodytes catarractes, Fokst., Comm. Soc. Keg. Sc. Gott iii 1781 



140. Gm., S. N. ii. 1788, 558, No. 7 : based on Edw. 48 = Linnseus's 



and Forster's bird. 

 Spheniscus catarractes, Schlegel, M. P.-B. 9me. livr. 8. 

 Eudyptes catarractes, Gray, Handl. iii. 1871, 98. 

 Pin U nil, aria cristata, Shaw, Nat. Misc. pi. 437. 



" saltator, Steph.," (Gray.) 



Aptenodytes gorfu a, Boxnatekre, Ency. Method. 1782, i. 68. 

 "Aptenodytes chrysocome?" Peale, Orn. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1848, p. 259 



335, No. 693 (testibus specim. ipsis). 

 ? Le manchot huppe de Siberie. Plahche Enlum. No. 984. 



06s. This species is at once distinguished among the crested 

 ones by the shortness of the tail, which in size and shape rather 

 recalls S. demersus. This member is under three inches long, 

 rounded, of fourteen narrow stifflsh graduated rectrices. From 

 either chnjsocome or chrysolopha it is also known by its inferior 

 size; and from chrysocome, its nearest ally, by the quite blue 

 upper parts, as in chrijsolojiha, the color of the back of chnj- 

 socome being quite dark. 



This appears to have been the earliest described of the crested 

 species, and its synonymy is in such a state of confusion with 

 that of the following, that probably it is now impossible to com- 

 pletely unravel it. Such points as we have been able to determine 

 with some confidence, and which probably are correct, are given 

 in connection with chrysocome. 



No. 15,658, Mus. Smiths. Inst., Antarctic Ocean, U. S*Ex. Ex., 

 T. Pv. Peale, mounted, not in perfect plumage. The feathers of 

 the vertex are lengthened and linear, those of the forehead less 

 so ; all are blackish. The crests are only indicated by the yel 

 lowish superciliary lines of little lengthened feathers. Under-parts 

 white to the bill, but the gular dark beginning to show ; upper- 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



parts strongly washed with penguin-blue. Bill brownish-red. 

 Stands 19 inches high, and seems overstuffed; tail under 3, but 

 still the coverts so short that the rectrices noticeably project. 

 Chord of culmen 1.40 ; gape 1.75 ; height of bill at base .75 ; from 

 antire to tip of bill 1.00 ; tarsus under 1.00 ; middle toe and claw 

 under 2.50. 



No. 45,513, Mus. Smiths. Inst., Orange Bay, Antarctic Ocean, 

 TJ. S. Ex. Ex., J. W. Dyes, Feb. 1839 ; exactly like the last. 



No. 45,512, Mus. Smiths. Inst., Cape Horn, U. S. Ex. Ex., T. R. 

 Peale. Similar, but plumage a little more advanced. The dark 

 gular area is here apparent, while the blackish feathers of the 

 vertex and the j-ellowish superciliary bundles are a little longer, 

 yet the latter do not form crests. 



These three specimens represent the " Aptenodytes chrysocome V 

 of Peale, I. c. They appear to have been overlooked, unaccount- 

 ably, hy Mr. Cassin, when he did Mr. Peale's work over again; 

 for the L T . S. Ex. Ex. Ornithology contains no allusion to them. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Philada., " Cape Horn. Presented by Dr. 

 Paischenberger, 5th Aug. 1857. J. C." Not adult, the throat 

 being only partially blackish, and the crests merely indicated by 

 yellow superciliary lines. It closely resembles three Smithsonian 

 specimens. Chord of culmen 1.60 ; bill weak ; tail barely 3 inches. 

 It may be considered a suspicious circumstance that all these spe- 

 cimens referable to catarractes on account of the weak bill, short 

 tail and slight crests, show characters reasonably explicable upon 

 ground of immaturity. 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc, adult, Falkland Islands, Coll. La 

 Fresna}'e. (Hyatt.) 



EUDYPTES CHEYSOCOME (Forst.). 



Aptenodytes cJirysocome, Forst., Coram. Soc. Reg. Sc. G6tt. hi. 1781, 135, 



pi. i. LiciiTEXSTEix, Ed. Descr. Forst. 1844, 99. ? Gmelin, S. N. ii, 1788, 



555, No. 1. (Quotes Forster and P.E. 984.) 

 Splieniscus chrysocome, Schl., M. P.-B. ix. 1866, Uriu. 6. 

 Eudyptes cJirysocome, Gould, B. Anst., vii. pi. 83 (testibus speciminibus 



typicis). Scl., P.Z.S. 1860, 392. 

 Eudyptes pacliyvliynclia, Gray, Voy. E. & T. Birds, , pi. 17. Gray 



and MiTcnELL, G. of B. iii. pi. 176. Gray, Handlist, iii. 1871, 98. 

 Eudyptes nigrivcstis, Gould, P. Z. S. 1860, 418. 

 Eudyptes nigriventris ! Gray, Handlist, iii. 1811, 98, lapsu. 

 ? ? Planchc Enluminee, No. 984. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 203 



No. 59,242, Mus. Smiths. Inst., Falkland Islands, lately acquired 

 under the name of " Eud. nigrivestis, Gould." Bill 1.70 (chord 

 of culmen) ; from antiseto tip of bill 1.10; gape 2.00; tail about 4 ; 

 wing about 7. The upper parts are very dark, especially the head 

 and neck, which show no blue at all ; the crown is jet-black, its 

 feathers moderately lengthened, those of the forehead not reach- 

 ing the occiput. A narrow pale yellow line runs from near the 

 base of the culmen over the eye, to the occiput, and there forms 

 a curly tuft an inch longer. This specimen certainly shows 

 nothing whatever different from ordinary chrysocome, nor does 

 Gould's description (I. c.) give any tangible characters. He says, 

 indeed, that his bird is "smaller than chrysocome" but the dimen- 

 sions he assigns (length 214; ; bill 2 ; tail 4 ; tarsi f ) do not bear 

 out this statement ; nor do any of the other characters hold. We 

 judge from the nature of Mr. Gould's remarks that he compared 

 his bird with chrysolopha, from which it is different in the respects 

 he mentions. In any event, we fully concur with Prof. Schlegel, 

 in relegating "nigrivestis" to chrysocome. Mr. Gray admits the 

 species, in the Handlist, but by an unfortunate slip of the pen, or 

 typographical error, it there stands as " nigriventris." 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Philada., New Zealand, adult. Bill of im- 

 mense size; chord of culmen 2.50, greatest depth 1.20; the cul- 

 minal and tomial portions highly turgid. Upper parts very dark, 

 scarcely washed with bluish, and quite black on the head; frontal 

 and coronal feathers lengthened and linear ; crests conspicuous, 

 light straw yellow, reaching about an inch beyond the occiput. 

 Stands about 19 high ; tail about 4.50 ; middle toe and claw 3.75. 



No. 1684, Mus. Acad. Philada., adult, Van Diemen's Land, Coil. 

 Gould. One of the types of chrysocome, Gould, B. A. pi. 83. 

 Almost exactly like the last specimen, but not quite so heavy ; 

 tail about 4 inches. This is unquestionably true chrysocome, and 

 Dr. Schlegel therefore is proved in error in assigning " chrysocome, 

 Gould," among the synonyms of chrysolopha, Brandt. 



No. 1343, Mus. Acad. Philada. New Zealand, adult, labelled 

 '' pachyrhynchus, Gray?" in a handwriting I do not recognize. 

 Essentially similar to, and certainly conspecific with, the foregoing 

 specimens ; though it looks larger, this is probably due to 

 overstuffing. Stands 19 inches; tail 4; bill 2. The head is opaque 

 velvety black, but there is considerable blue in the color of the 

 back. The yellow crests are precisely as in the other specimens. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Philada. Adult ; no locality nor donor 

 given. A specimen closely agreeing with the preceding, but the 

 bill is not nearly so heavy, though stout for its length ; it measures 

 1.60 long, by nearly one inch deep. The specimen is labelled 

 " pachyrhyncha, Gray," by Mr. Cassin, and is certainly Gray's bird. 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc, no locality given, Coll. La Fresnaye. 

 (Hyatt.) 



This species, if it be different from catarrhactes, is to be distin- 

 guished by the rather larger size, very stout bill, decidedly longer 

 tail, and prevalent darkness of the back, and especially the head. 

 From chi-ysolopha it may be known by the less development of 

 the crests, darker color, and heavier bill. 



It is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to pick out, among 

 the earlier notices of this species and catarrhactes, the names and 

 descriptions that respectively apply to these two. Mr. Gray, in- 

 deed, throws all the eighteenth century synonymy upon catarrhac- 

 tes, considering that his f)achyrhyncha represents the original 

 description of the present species ; and it would be advantageous 

 to agree with him on this point. But I cannot help thinking that 

 Forster had two different species in view, that he named respec- 

 tiveby catarrhactes (after Briss.) and chrysocome (n. sp.). 



It is also Dr. Schlegel's opinion that Forster indicated the 

 two species, so that I hardly see how he (Dr. Schlegel) relegates 

 cJiri/socome, Gmelin and P. E. 984, to catarrhactes ; for Gmelin 

 quotes Forster, and whatever species Forster's is, that Gmelin's 

 must also be. The Planche Enlum., also, shows a very dark bird. 

 I know that in this matter my judgment is quite as likely to be 

 at fault as Dr. Schlegel's is, but I think that, all things considered, 

 it may be best to accept the synonymy as it is here arranged, let- 

 ting " chrysocome " mean chrysocome, and " catarrhactes " mean 

 catarrhactes, in every instance, without attempting an identifica- 

 tion upon the vague and unsatisfactory descriptions that the 

 older authors gave. 



EUDYPTES CHRYSOLOPHA, Brandt, 



Eudyptes chrysolopha, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Petersb. ii., 324. Schlegel, 

 M. P.-B. Urin. p. 7 (Excl. syn. " chrysocome Gould."). 



"Eudyptes chrysocome, Pelzeln " (nee Forst.). Novara Reise, Vogel, 

 p. 140, pi.' 5. (Auct, Schlecjel.) 



E. preecedenti simillimus ; sed rostro debiliorc, notaeo paululuni clariores 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



cristis lateralibus longissimis, procul ultra occiput porrectis, et plumi, 

 coronalibus omnibus elongatis. 



Habitat. Maribus australibus. Ins. Falklandicis. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad., Philada. No locality given. The upper 

 parts are rather lighter colored (bluer) than in chrysocome (much 

 as in catarrhactes), but the difference is not well marked ; the head, 

 however, has a decided bluish cast hardly visible in the opaque 

 black of chrysocome. All the coronal feathers are longer, more 

 slender, and stiffer than I have ever seen them in chrysocome, 

 extending nearly two inches beyond the occiput, and forming a 

 median vertical black crest connecting the yellow lateral plumes. 

 The longest yellow plumes are full 3 inches in length, and reach 

 over 4 inches behind the e} r e about 7 inches from the tip of the 

 bill : they are accompanied to their very ends by a few of the long- 

 est black plumes. This is a condition I have never seen equalled 

 in any specimen of chrysocome, though the difference after all is 

 not so decided. The bill is no shorter than in some specimens of 

 chrysocome (the chord of culmen measuring If inches long) ; but 

 it is weaker than I have ever seen it in that species, being hardly 

 | of an inch deep. The tail is about 4 inches long ; middle toe 

 and claw nearly 3.00. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad., Phila. No locality assigned. Exactly 

 like the last, but the crests not quite so highly developed, though 

 they are still noticeably longer than in chrysocome. The bluish 

 cast of the upper parts, and even of the head, is well marked. 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc, Falkland Islands, Coll. La Fresnaye. 

 {Hyatt.) 



According to Dr. Schlegel, it is this species that is indicated 

 in Gould's Handbook, p. 517, under the name of Eudyptes "catar- 

 ractes;" and by Pelzeln, Novara Reise, p. 140, pi. 5, under the name 

 of Eudyptes " chrysocome." We do not, however, venture to so 

 assign these names in our synonymy, especially since P'\ Schlegel 

 is certainly wrong in his identification of Gould's "chrysocome.'''' 



Although I am able to distinguish the three currently accredited 

 species, in the few specimens examined, yet the distinctions are 

 not of a very satisfactory nature, and I strongly suspect that 

 when specimens enough shall have been compared, the supposed 

 specific characters will melt insensibly into each other, so that, 

 at most, only varietal distinction can be reasonably asserted. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Indeed, I am not sure that differences of age or season or special 

 conditions of plumage may not be the sole basis of the supposed 

 species. 



EUDYPTES DIADEMATUS, Gould. 



Eudyptes diadematus, Gould, P. Z. S. 1860, 419. Schlegel, Urin. M. 

 P.-B. 18G6, 9me, 8. Gkay, Hand-list, iii. 1871, 98. 



Habitat. Ins. Falldandicis. Nova Zealandia. 



Eud. cbrysolopbre et cbrysocomse similis, sed major, notoeo obscuriore, 

 fusco vix griseo-co3i'uleo lavato, pluinis superciliaribus necnon frontalibus 

 flavissimis, bis nigro-lineatis, illis breviusculis, rectis. 



No. 59,241, Mus. Smiths., adult, in perfect plumage, from the 

 Falkland Islands, received under the name of " Eud. chrysolopha." 

 The upper parts are very dark, with barely a trace of dull pen- 

 guin-blue in some places, in others, as on the head, none at all. 

 (In these respects quite different from its nearest ally, chrysolo- 

 pha.) The intense yellow plumes, very slender, and perfectly 

 straight, reach hardly an inch beyond the sides of the occiput 

 (they are longer, curly, and not so yellow, in the other species) ; 

 and on the forehead they coalesce to form a large orange spot, 

 with sharp black lines, the terminal half of each feather being 

 black. (In all the other three crested species the lateral bundles 

 of yellow plumes remain strictly separate.) The other feathers 

 of the crown are perfectly black, and not much lengthened. Bill 

 larger and more robust than in the other crested species ; nasal 

 groove very strongly impressed, dividing the maxilla into the 

 broad, depressed, culminal part, and the bulging tomial portions ; 

 on the under mandible the feathers ascend backwards from their 

 point of extension between the rami, as usual, but do not reach 

 the tomia at all, but retreat to the very angle of the mouth ; while 

 the corneous part of the mandible is defined along the line of 

 these feathers by a raised border. Chord of culmen 2.25 ; gape 

 2.50 ; from antite to tip of bill 1.75 ; height of bill opposite base 

 of culmen 1.15; width do. .85 ; wing nearly 8 ; tail 5.25; tarsus 

 about 1 ; middle toe and claw 2.75 ; whole length of the dried 

 skin, apparently not stretched, 2 feet. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad., Philada. No locality given. Adult ; as 

 stuffed, stands 22 inches high ; chord of culmen 2.15 ; gape 2.15, 

 but not quite 1 deep at deepest place; tail about 4^; wing 8. 

 Similar to the Smithsonian specimen. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



No. . . . Mus. Acad., Philada., male, adult, " Isles Croquets ;" 

 almost exactly like the preceding*; bill not quite so large ; stands 

 about 21^ inches high. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad., Phila., " Isle Macquarie." Young, or at 

 least imperfect plumage, the throat and sides of the head below 

 the eyes being white, slightly clouded with dusky, indicating the 

 blackish area of the mature state ; but the plumes are as largely 

 developed, the forehead is as yellow, and the bill is as large as in 

 the adults above mentioned. It seems to be exactly like spec. 

 No. 3 of Dr. Schlegel's catalogue, and is from the same locality. 

 This concurrence of white throat with intensely yellow forehead 

 is rather in favor of the validity of the species. 



These specimens appear to have stood a long time unrecognized 

 in the Academy, the richness of the ornithological department of 

 which only gradually appears. Thejrare unquestionably diadema- 

 tus. We are also pleased to identify with this beautiful species, 

 which seems strongly marked, and is at any rate recognizable on 

 sight by the orange forehead and other characters, a specimen 

 that has lain for some time in the Smithsonian, labelled " chryso- 

 lopha." It does not appear to be contained in the British Mu- 

 seum. Dr. Schlegel reports three examples at Leyden ; two 

 adults, one from the Falklands, the other from New Zealand ; and 

 an " individu a gorge et cotes de la tete blancs, du reste au plu- 

 mage parfait ; ile Macquarie, au sud de la Nouv. Zeelande." 



? A shade of doubt attaches, that this may be an extreme case 

 of chrysolopha ; for we have in the Eud. nigrivestis of Gould, 

 which is not distinct from chrysocoma, a state of plumage as dark 

 as that of diadematus. But diadematus is distinguishable on 

 sight, and no intermediate specimens have been forthcoming. 



SPHENISCUS MINOR (Forst.). 



Apttenodytes minor, Forst., Coinrn. Soc. Reg. Sc. Gotting. iii. 1781, 147, 

 No. 9. Gm., S. N. 1788, 558. Lath., Ind. Oru., ii. 1790, 881. Peale, 

 U.S. Ex. 1848, Birds, 259, 335, No. 694. Gould, B. Aust. vii. pi. 84. 



Spheniscus minor, Temii., Man. Orn. i. 113. Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. 

 Pays-Bas, 9ine livr. 10. Hyatt, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1871, p. 



Eudyptila minor, Bonap. 



Eudyptes {Eudyptila) minor, Gray, Handl. 1871, iii. 99. 



Aptenodytes undina, Gould, P.Z.S. 1844, xii. 57. 



Aptenodytes s. Eudyptula undina, Gould, B. Aust. vii. pi. 85. 



Eudyptes {Eudyptila) undina, Gray, Handl. iii. 1871, 99. 



Little Pinguin, Lath., Syn. Birds, vi. 572, pi. 103 ; Gen. Hist. x. pi. clxxx. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Habitat in littoribus Australia? australibus, necnon Tasmania, Novazea- 

 landia. 



Minimus inter omnes, rostro brevi, crassiusculo, recto, maxilla? apice ad- 

 unco, naribus nudis, plumis amotis, cauda brevi, rotundata ; supra griseo- 

 cceruleus, infra albus. 



No. 15,661, Mus. Smiths., 9, adult, Boyauf I., N. Zealand, IT. S. 

 Ex. Ex., T. R. Peale. One of the types of Peale, op. cit. pp. 259, 

 335, No. 694, and of Cassin, op. cit. pp. 355, 450, No. 687. Stands, 

 as mounted, a foot high ; was probably 14 inches long ; wing 4.25 ; 

 tail 1.25; the rectrices scarcely surpassing the tectrices ; culmen 

 of bill, 1.25 ; gape, 1.75 ; from antioe to tip, only 1.00 ; depth of 

 bill at base, .45, its width there .25 ; tarsus .75 ; middle toe and 

 claw, 1.66. The feet are wholly reticulate with hexagonal plates ; 

 the hullux is completely lateral, the end of its nail barely touch- 

 ing the ground. The color of the feet is now undistinguishable; 

 but the webs and the toes towards their end appear to have been 

 darker than the rest. The bill is much shorter than the head, 

 slenderish, compressed, the hook of the maxilla bareby overarching 

 the end of the mandible ; the nostrils are entirely unfeathered, 

 and lie in a deep narrow sulcus that runs obliquely into the max- 

 illary tomium at the beginning of its decurvature ; the antioe are 

 acute, but only run out a little beyond the feathers on culmen, 

 falling short of the nostrils. Feathers occlude the interramal 

 space, and retreat in a straight line, obliquely upward and back- 

 ward, to the angle of the mouth. Thus the bill is most like that 

 of Spheniscus demersus in general characters, but somewhat ap- 

 proaches that of Pygoscelis. This is one of the only two penguins 

 that never gain a dark throat; the pictura is perfectly simple 

 blue above, white below; the line of demarcation passes straight 

 through the eye, shoulder, and thigh ; a spot at the end of the 

 under surface of the wing is blue, and the border of the wing is 

 white. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad., Philada., adult, "New Holland." 



No. 1336, Mus. Acad., Philada., %, adult, Van Diemen's Land, 

 from the Gould collection. 



No. 1338, Mus. Acad., Philada., South Australia, from the Gould 

 collection. A specimen still showing brown down in several 

 places, the general plumage very rich blue. Bill weak, only 1.25 

 long, and .37 deep at base. (Compare Nos. 1340, 1341.) 



No. 1337, Mus. Acad., Philada., from the Gould collection, Tan 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Diemen's Lund. Like No. 1338, but with more extensive patches 

 of gray down about the head, neck, and wings. 



No. 1339, Mus. Acad., Philada., from the Gould collection, 

 South Australia. Young, in downy plumage, grayish brown 

 above, white below. Bill one inch long. 



Nos. 1340, 1341, Mus. Acad., Philada., adults. Van Diemen's 

 Land, from the Gould collection ; types of S. undina. These spe- 

 cimens are slightly smaller than average minor, bluer than usual 

 but not bluer than No. 1338, for example, and with rather weak 

 bills. The chord of the culmen of No. 1341 is 1 inch, that of 

 1340 is 1.25, just as in No. 1338, and No. 15661. I cannot dis- 

 tinguish these specimens even as a variety. 



Hyatt reports another of the U. S. Ex. Ex. specimens in the 

 Boston Society's Museum, and one from the Coll. La Fresnaye ; 

 these, and several quoted by Gray and Schlegel, are all from the 

 one or another of the localities above mentioned, and to which 

 the species seems confined. 



We cannot discover, in Gould's undina, any specific characters. 

 The bird is one of the bluest of the penguins ; and the shade of 

 the plumage, as well as the hue of the bill and feet, varies with 

 age or other changeable circumstances. 



SPHENISCUS DEMEKSUS (L.). 



Manchot du Cap de Bonne Esperanee, Buff., P. E. 383. 



Black- footed Penguin, Edw., Birds, pi. 94. f. 2. 



Anser magellanicus, Clds., Exot. p. 101. 



Plautus pinguis, Klein, Av. p. 147. 



Anser magellanicus clusii, Willoughby, 242. 



Lesser' pinguin, Phil. Trans, lviii. 37. Sparm. Voy. i. p. 24. 



Cape pinguin, Lath., Gen. Syn. vi. 566, and Gen. Hist. 1824, x. 381. 



Cape pinguin, var. A., LATn., Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 381; based on Sp7i. 



ncevius, Briss., and Edw., pi. 94. f. 1.; (= Gen. Syn. vi. 507, No. 5, A.). 

 Cape pinguin, var. B., Lath., Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 381.; based on pinguin 



a lunettes, Pernet, Voy. ii. 17, pi. 7, f. 3.; Id. p. 243, pi. 15.( = Gen. 



Syn. vi. 563, B.) 

 ? New Holland pinguin, Lath., Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 388 (no citations). 

 CMloe pinguin, Lath., Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 388, and Gen. Syn. Suppl. ii. 



3G1. (Based on Molina.) 

 Three-toed pinguin, Lath., Gen. Syn. Suppl. ii. 361, and Gen. Hist. x. 



1824, 393; based on Diomedea chilensis, Molina. 

 Splieniscus and Spheniscus ncevius, Briss., Orn. vi. 1760, 97, 99. 

 Diomedea chilensis et chiloensis, Mol., Nat. Chili, 1786, 210, 211. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Aptenodytes chilensis et chiloensis. Gm., S. N. i. 1788, 559. 



Aptenodytes cJiiloensis, Lath., Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, 881. 



Aptenodytes molince, Lath., Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, 881 (= three-toed piiiguin 



of Latii., Gen. Syn.). 

 Diomedea demersa, L., S. N. i. 1766, 214, nee Phceton dem. ibid. 219. 



(Based on Will., Edw., Clus., and Briss., as above cited). Hab. "Cap. 



B. Spei." 

 SpAeniscus demersus, Temminck. Schleg., M. P.-B. dme livr. 1866, Urin. 



p. 10. Gkay, Hand-1., iii. 1871, 98. Hyatt, Proc. Bost, Soc. Nat. 



Hist. 1871. 

 Aptenodytes palpebrata, Licht., Ed. Forst. Descr. An. 1844, 356. 

 Spheniscus humboldtii, Meyen, Nov. Act. Ac. Cses. Leop. Car. 1834, xvi. 



Suppl. i. p. 110, pi. xxi. (Remarks upon the likelihood that it is the 



same as P. E. 382). Peru. Sclater, P. Z. S. 18G7, 337. (Chili.) 



No. . . . Mus. Smiths. Inst., locality unknown, received June 4, 

 1862, from J. C. Macguire. Immature ; entirely white below, with 

 faint traces of a band across the lower throat ; upper parts quite 

 blue. As mounted, stands about 19 inches high; probabby mea- 

 sured about 24 inches; alar expanse, 18; chord of culmen, 2.10; 

 height of bill at base, .75 



No. . . . Mus. Smiths. Inst., received with the last, locality un- 

 known : collected March, 1846. Young bird, in the down, standing 

 13 inches high as mounted. The bill is weak and much shrunken; 

 a large lozenge-shaped naked space surrounds each eye, and 

 much of the sides of the under mandible, feathered in the adult, 

 is also naked. The down is light smoky-brown, paler below, 

 whitening on the belly. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Phila., locality unknown. Apparently a 

 youngish bird, the upper parts being brownish with slight bluish 

 gloss. The space between the eye and bill, and an area at base of 

 under mandible, are naked more extensively than usual. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Phila., locality unknown. An adult, in- 

 tensely colored. A narrow loral line, and the eyelids, are naked. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Philada., locality unknown. Adult. Only 

 the e3 r elids are perfectly naked. The under parts show a great 

 number of the isolated black feathers usually seen in this species. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Phila., locality unknown. 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc, young, Cape of Good Hope, Coll. La 

 Fresnaye. {Hyatt.) 




natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 211 



SPHENISCUS DEMERSUS, Var. MAGELLANICUS. 



? Le manchot des Hottentots; manchot a bee tronque: P. E. 1005 (whether 

 this var., or true demersus is uncertain). 



Collared pinguin, Lath., Gen. Syn. vi. 571 ; Lath., Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 391. 



Magellanic pinguin, Lath., Gen. Syn. vi. 569 ; Gen. Hist. x. 1824, 383. 



Aptenodytes magellanicus, Forst., Comm. Soc. Eeg. Sc. Gott. iii. 1871, 143, 

 pi. 5. Lath., Ind. Orn. ii. 880. 6m., S. N. i. 1788, 557. (Based on 

 Fokst., 1. c, and Mill., 111. t. 34.) Peale, U. S. Ex. Ex. 1848, 258 

 and 335, No. 692. Cass, U. S. Ex. Ex. 1859, 335, 450, No. 692. 



Spheniscus magellanicus, Sclater, P. Z. S. 1860, 382. 



Eudyptes (Pygoscelis) magellanicus, Gray, Handl. iii., 1871, 99. 



Aptenodytes torquata, Fokst., 1. c. p. 146. Gin., S. N. 1788, 558. Lath., 

 Ind. Orn. ii., 1790, 880. 



''Aptenodytes plutyrliynchus, Scopoli." (Manchot a collier, Sonnerat, 

 Voy.,180. pi. 114.) 



" Aptenodytes fuscirostris, Illiger." 



Aptenodytes brasiliensis, Light., eel. Forst. Descr. Anim., 1844, 355. 



Spheniscus magnirostris, Peale, Orn. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1848, p. 263, pi. 71, 

 f. 1, et p. 335, No. 698, teste spec, typic. ipso ! Deincle S. demersus, Cass, 

 Orn. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1859, 354, specimen eundem referens. 



SpJte?iiscus demersus, Abbott, Ibis, 1860, 366. 



Spit, demerso similis, sed major, notwo obscuriore, necnon collo antice tor- 

 quato, fascia, fusea per regionern inter gulam et pectus transducta. 



Habitat cum proecedente. 



No. 15,659, mounted, in immature plumage, Tierra del Fuego, 

 TJ. S. Expl. Exped., T. R. Peale : type of Apt. magnirostris Peale. 

 The bill is one of the smallest (of Spheniscus proper) we have seen ; 

 the rugous parts are shrunken, and much of the bill is yellowish; 

 the upper parts are lighter and bluer than is usual in this variety, 

 and much as in ordinary demersus. There is no trace of the dark 

 breast-band or of the lateral stripe; but the cervical half-collar 

 distinctive of magellanicus is plainly apparent. This* has decided 

 us as to the proper determination of the specimen ; and of course, 

 with this identification, comes the reference of Peale's magniros- 

 tris, and Cassin's " demersus," here instead of to true demersus. 

 In fact, we find the specimen labelled "magellanicus?" in a hand- 

 writing we do not recognize, and we observe that Mr. Cassin has 

 queried his private No. G83, which refers to his catalogue {op. cit. 

 p. 450, No. 683), although there and on p. 354 (op. cit.) he lets the 

 name " demersus" stand. 



No. . . . 15,669, adult in perfect plumage, mounted, Tierra del 

 Fuego, U. S. Ex. Ex., basis of Peale and Cassin, 11. cc. Bill, and 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



other details of structure, exactly as in demersus. Larger: about 

 21 inches long, standing 24 as mounted; chord of culmen, 2.30; 

 gape 2.90, tomia naked 2.25, antise to tip of bill 2.00, depth of bill 

 at base 1.00, width do. .15 ; nostrils an inch from end of antia? ; 

 wing about 8 ; tarsus, 1.50 ; middle toe and claw, 3.00 ; outer do., 2.66 ; 

 inner do., 2.00. Darker than average demersus; the cervical half- 

 collar and pectoral lateral horse-shoe-shaped water-line both per- 

 fect ; the perfect white line of the head starts at side of base of bill, 

 runs over eye, curves down behind ear, somewhat expands below 

 it, and then passes forward to the throat where it joins its fellow, 

 thus cutting off the dark collar from the general gular black. 



No. 15,656, Mus. Smiths. Inst., same locality and source as the 

 last, is also in adult condition, and perfectly similar to No. 15,669 

 in color, but smaller ; now it stands, as mounted, only about 1^ 

 feet, but seems to have been about 2 feet long. 



No. . . . Mus. Acad. Phila. Locality unknown. 



No. 1644, Mus. Acad. Phila. Straits of Magellan. Adult. 



No. 1514, Mus. Acad. Phila. " Amerique meridionale." 



No. . . . Mus. Bost. Soc, adult, Tierra del Fuego, U. S. Ex. Ex. 

 {Hyatt.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213 



August 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nine members present. 



Note on Coitus Grainlandicus, Fabr.Bv. Gill communicated 

 the results of certain observations made on Cottus groenlandious, 

 *ab. (Acanthocottnsgrcenlandicus, Girard), during the past season 

 at the island of Grand Manan, New Brunswick. 



Two forms, agreeing in most respects except color, have been 

 always noticed together by those who have been in a position to 

 observe numbers. The most obvious external difference between 

 these consists in the color, one having the flanks downward and 

 the abdomen yellowish, while in the other form the abdomen is 

 spotted with white. Descriptions in several works have been 

 based on only one of these forms, but in Giinther's Catalogue of 

 the Acaiithopterygian Fishes" (II. p. 161), under the general 

 term Cottus grcenlandicus" the two forms are mentioned, one 

 being T ar. a. Sides of the belly with large white spots ;" the 

 other M ar. p. Sides irregularly marbled ;" each was represented 

 in the British Museum by four specimens. No suspicion of any 

 sexual relation of those forms was expressed. 



The universal occurrence of these two forms together and in 

 approximately equal numbers led the speaker to suspect that 

 they really represented sexual conditions of the same species 

 Dissection confirmed the suspicion, and it was found that all in- 

 dividuals with white spots on the abdomen were males, and all 

 without, females. In order to remove doubt, sixteen specimens 

 were dissected, all caught within a couple of hours, at Grand 

 Manan, from the wharf of Mr. Walter McLaughlin. 



Six of these had (1) the belly ornamented with very distinct 

 white round spots, and (2) the ventral fins were white, banded 

 with black ; all these were furnished with spermaries ; (3) the 

 spiny tubercles on the sides were also more numerous, and de- 

 veloped (below as well as above) the lateral line; (4) the spinous 

 dorsal fin was appreciable higher, and (5) several of the median 

 rays (sixth to eleventh) of the pectoral fins were muricated or 

 studded with minute tubercles. 



Of the other form, ten specimens were examined and found 

 with well-developed ovaries (the right larger than the left). These 

 were (1) yellowish towards the belly, and with (2) the ventrals 

 yellow, banded with black; (3) the spiny tubercles were, as a 

 rule, less developed, and in one specimen sparsely (2-4) existent 

 below the lateral line ; (4) the spinous dorsal was comparatively 

 lower, and (o) all the pectoral rays were perfectly smooth on their 

 inner surfaces. 



The intestinal canal from the caeca to the anus, when extended 

 was about twice as long as the entire fish (including the caudal)! 




214 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



The cseca were counted in five individuals, and in three were 

 nine in number ; in one ten; and another eleven. 



The rays of the fins were also counted, with the following 

 result : 



Males. 



A. 13. P. 18 (6th to 11th muricated). 



" " (7th to 11th " ). 



14. " (5th to 8th " ). 



" " (Oth to 10th " ). 



" " (8th to 10th " ). 



Females. 



A. 13. P. 17 (both sides). 

 18. 



14. 18. 



13. 17 (both sides). 



13. 18. 

 14. 

 13. 

 15. 



14. 18. 



There thus appears to be a considerable range of variation in 

 the number of rays. The most common number is represented by 

 the formula D. x, 16-17, A. 13, P. 18. The number of pectoral 

 rays, as might a priori be expected, is the most constant. 



There seems to be no valid reasons for the distinction of 

 " Acanthocottus variabilis," Aja'es, and " Acanthocottus mucosus" 

 Ayres, from Gottus groenlandicus, and certainly no distinctive 

 characters have been assigned. 



In answer to questions, it was added that no definite relation 

 existed between the numbers of rays of the vertical fins and the 

 number of vertebrae, nor was there any corresponding variation. 

 The most common number of vertebrse in fishes is ten dorsal and 

 fourteen caudal (10 + 14), but the difference in the number of rays 

 in forms thus distinguished is very considerable. 



August 13. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 



Nine members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said he had observed this season that the 

 spawn of the common mushroom (AgaricTis campestris) radiated 

 from a central point in a manner which he thought had not been 

 recorded Ivy other observers. As usually seen, the mushroom 

 seemed to rise from various points along the mycelium, or under- 

 ground thread, without any regular order or system. Fungi, like 

 flowering plants, had other modes of propagation besides seeds. 

 As in the potato, we had one S3 r stem elevating its parts into the 

 atmosphere ending in seeds, and another sending thready stolons 

 under ground terminating in distended stems or tubers the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



threads dying away after the tubers were mature so in the com- 

 mon agarics we have the parts known as the " mushroom" which 

 elevates itself into the atmosphere, and produces reproductive 

 bodies like seeds called spores; and we also have underground 

 white threads starting out from the base of the mushroom which 

 at their terminus bear buds which next year become mushrooms, 

 as the swollen ends or tubers of the potato produce plants. The 

 observations, which he supposed new, referred to the distance 

 which the spawn-threads traversed in one season, and the regular 

 manner in which the mushrooms appeared from the parent of the 

 past year. 



In the autumn of 1871, passing over a part of his farm where 

 he had seen no mushrooms in previous years, he found two soli- 

 tary specimens several yards apart. This season, where these two 

 were gathered last year, there were two. exact circles of several 

 dozens of mushrooms, the circles about nine feet in diameter. 

 The mushrooms were wholly confined to a belt of about six inches 

 on the margin of this circle. The diameters in both instances 

 being the same, led to the fair inference that about four feet is 

 the distance travelled in one season by the spawn of the mush- 

 room. Of course, next year, when the spawn starts from the bases 

 of the mushrooms now in the circle, some will go back over the 

 distance traversed this year, and the appearance of circles will be 

 broken up, and it was owing to the fact of only two appearing in 

 this way, that the radiating character could be observed. 



In England there are fungi which are known to radiate then- 

 threads from a common centre in this way. These destroy the 

 vegetation which they come in contact with on their route, and 

 make brown circular spots known to the common people as Fairy 

 rings. The grass and vegetation inclosed in the mushroom rings 

 were not destroyed as in those instances, but exhibited a slight 

 bluish tint which that beyond the circle did not, which tint was 

 a sign of slight injury. The facts that the mycelium radiated in 

 so exact a circle, terminating in a bud which produced the mush- 

 room ; and that this radiation covered a circle nine feet in diame- 

 ter, he thought novel facts worth recordino-. 



August 20. 

 Mr. Tryon in the chair 

 Ten members present. 



August 27. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eleven members present. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW RECENT SPECIES OF GLYCIMERIS, FROM 

 BEAUFORT, NORTH CAROLINA, AND OF MIOCENE SHELLS OF NORTH 

 CAROLINA. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



GLYCIMERIS, Klein. II. and A. Adams. 



G. bitruncata. PL 7, fig. 1. Short, rhomboidal, ventricose, 

 contracted, and obliquely truncated anteriorly ; posterior margin 

 oblique, slightly emarginate, cardinal tooth in right valve small, 

 compressed, flattened on the posterior side; pallial sinus widely 

 and obtusely rounded. 



Locality. Fort Macon, N. C. A. C. Beals, U. S. A. 



This interesting shell was sent to the Academy by Dr. Yarrow, 

 from Fort Macon. I suppose it to be a recent shell, on account 

 of its polish, and part of the unaltered ligament remaining. Two 

 specimens were found. It is the only recent species of Glycimeris 

 inhabiting the coasts of North America. There are five species 

 in the Miocene of Virginia and North Carolina. The genus 

 Panopcea is only represented in North America by P. arctica, 

 Lam., which inhabits the Banks of Newfoundland. 



DONAX, Lam. 



D. idoneus. PL T, fig- 2. Shell triangular, elongated, ventri- 

 cose on the posterior side; anterior side flattened, cuneiform, 

 rounded at the extremity ; posterior side acutely rounded at the 

 end, margin very oblique, concave, disk radiated with impressed 



lines. 



Locality. Coast of North Carolina, probably from a Miocene- 

 bed under the sea. It was found by Dr. Yarrow, TJ. S. A. 



0STREN0MIA. Conrad. 



Shell inequivalved, irregular, substance laminated as in Ostrea, 

 hinge with a triangular cartilage pit; right valve with a deep 

 notch or sinus having an internal raised margin ; left valve with 

 an angular bifurcating dentiform process at the base of the carti- 

 lage pit; muscular impression one in each valve. 



0. Carolinensis. PL 7, fig. 3. From the Eocene of North 

 Carolina, where it was found by Prof. Kerr, State Geologist. 



Prof. Morse has shown that A nomia ephippium is a rover in 

 the first stage of existence, then fixed by a byssus which issues 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 217 



from a sinus in the front margin of the shell ; and I have stated 

 that Pulvinites has a similar mode of growth. Deshayes de- 

 scribes and figures an Eocene Anomia, A. cazenovei, in which the 

 supposed law of retardation is conspicuously indicated by the 

 large size of the shell, although still retaining an incompleted 

 foramen, and now we have this character, probably as a permanent 

 one, associated with the hinge and structure of Ostrea, linking 

 the two genera more closely than was heretofore apparent. 



Ostrenomia has the same affinity to Ostrea that Pulvinites 

 has to Isognomen, Klein. (Perna, Brug.) 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



September 3. 

 Dr. Bridges in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Laseidse." By Geo. 

 W. Tryon, Jr. 



" Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Galeommidse." By 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



" Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Leptonidse." By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 







Remarks on the Habits of an AnLPvot Leidy remarked that 

 in his recent visit to Fort^Bridger, Wyoming, in many places he 

 observed the nests or hills of an ant, which reminded him of a 

 communication formerly made to the Academy by Mr. Lincecum. 

 on the Agricultural Ant of Texas (1866, 323). The ant-hills con- 

 sisted of "conical piles of gravel from one to two feet in diameter 

 and from six inches to a foot in height, occupying the centre of a 

 bare, circular level several yards in diameter. The mode of for- 

 mation and object of the circular space were not ascertained. 

 Probably it was the accidental result of the insect feeding on all 

 kinds of vegetation growing within a circumscribed limit. Mr. 

 Lincecum described similar circles, or pavements as he calls them, 

 and stated that the ants allow nothing to grow upon them except- 

 ing a certain grass, Aristida stricta, from which they collect the 

 seeds when ripe. 



September 10. 

 The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " On the Agency of Insects in obstructing Evolution." By 

 Tuos. Meehan. 



Remarks on Mineral Springs, &c, of Wyoming and Utah. 

 Prof. Leidy observed that, in his recent trip to Wyoming and 

 Utah, he had had the opportunity of seeing a few of the mineral 

 springs which are so numerous and varied in character, west of 

 the Rocky Mountains. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



In Pioneer Hollow, about fourteen miles west of Fort Bridger, 

 and a couple of miles from the Union Pacific Railroad, there are 

 about a dozen springs within the extent of a mile. These resemble 

 the famous Saratoga Springs of New York. The waters are cool, 

 slightly alkaline, of an agreeable taste, and highly impregnated 

 with carbonic acid. The springs range from a foot to fifteen feet 

 in diameter. Each forms a circular mound or crater from one to 

 three or four feet in height composed of a ferruginous silicious 

 sinter. The waters pour gently over the edge of the craters, 

 which have been deposited very slowly during a long period of 

 time, as the amount of silex in solution in the water is probably 

 exceedingly small. Abundance of a green filamentous alga grows 

 in the springs, apparently a species of oscillatoria. No animal 

 forms were detected in them. The rocks contiguous to Pioneer 

 hollow consist of reddish and yellow indurated clays and sand- 

 stones, in nearly horizontal strata. I detected no fossils in them, 

 but suspect from their contiguity that they are of tertiary age. 



About twenty-two miles from Fort Bridger, in the same direc- 

 tion as the former, there is an oil spring, the product of which 

 resembles the so-called lubricating oil. Judge Carter is making 

 the experiment of boring to render the spring more productive. 

 The neighboring rocks are highly inclined, and probably are of 

 cretaceous age. 



A mile or two north of Salt Lake City there is a warm spring 

 with which a sanitary establishment is connected. The water is 

 strongly saline and is impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen. 

 Its temperature I found, with an ordinary thermometer, to be 98. 

 A mile or two further north, on the Utah Central Railroad, there 

 is a similar spring with a higher temperature, which I found to be 

 128. The water gushes forth abundantly from beneath a rock 

 and forms a clear pond, with the bottom covered with a bright- 

 green alga. This appears also to be an oscillatoria. Masses of 

 it floating near the edge of the pond were white on the upper or 

 exposed surface. This I suspected to be due to free sulphur, and 

 indeed when the alga was exposed to the flame of a spirit-lamp it 

 gave out an indistinct odor of sulphur, though the result was not 

 so marked as I had anticipated. The water is strongly saline to 

 the taste and is impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen. No 

 animals were detected in the water not even microscopic forms. 

 The waters of these springs finally pour into Salt Lake. 



Salt Lake, as is well known, is remarkable, like the Dead Sea, 

 for the concentrated condition of its briny water, due to the accu- 

 mulation of the saline matters by the evaporation of the water 

 which has no river outlet. The many salt springs which empty 

 in the lake must have greatly contributed to the accumulation of 

 the saline constituents. The water of the lake is intensely salt to 

 the taste, and is said to contain a fifth of its weight of salt. 'This, 

 as well as some other points, I have not been able to test, from my 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



collections not yet having arrived. The much greater extent of 

 the lake in former times is apparently confirmed by the ancient 

 shore lines seen high up on the sides of the neighboring moun- 

 tains. Two of these ancient shore lines, at different heights, pre- 

 serve their horizontally and parallel character for miles along the 

 base of the Wasatch Mountains, and form a quite conspicuous 

 feature of the landscape of Salt Lake Valley. They reminded me 

 of the view given in Lyell's Antiquity of Man, of the parallel 

 roads of Glen Roy in Scotland. On ascending to these ledges, 

 behind the position of Camp Douglas, I found that they were 

 hardly recognizable, and the description of the roads just men- 

 tioned applies to them so closely that it may be suspected they 

 may have had the same mode of origin. I was informed that 

 similar ancient shore lines are visible on the sides of the mountain 

 islands of the lake. 



Salt Lake is usually considered to be destitute of animal and 

 vegetable life. Through the kindness of General H. A. Morrow, 

 incommand of Camp Douglas, I was enabled to visit the south- 

 west shore of the lake. I observed a number of water-birds on its 

 surface, among which were gulls and teal, and on the shore I 

 noticed several curlew. Other birds, especially pellicans, were 

 said to be abundant. These birds lead me to suspect the exist- 

 ence of fishes in the lake, though none have yet been noticed. I 

 observed no peculiar aquatic plants growing at the border of the 

 lake, and indeed the part of the shore I visited was entirely desti- 

 tute'of vegetation within reach of the water. The shore swarmed 

 with a small black fly, which from the vast quantities of larva 

 skins lying near, I supposed to have been derived from the lake. 

 Never before did I see such avast accumulation of any one species 

 of animal. The flies formed thick rows near the water's edge like 

 windrows of hay, and the bushes bordering the shore were loaded 

 with them in such a manner as to remind one of swarms of black 

 aphides. In walking along shore they rose before you in dense 

 black clouds. So far as I could discover, the gulls and curlews 

 appeared to be feeding on them. The remarkable crustacean Ar- 

 temia salina has been abundantly found in the lake, as before 

 indicated in this Academy. (Proc. p. 164.) 



I also observed floating at the edge of the lake and thrown on 

 shore an abundance of an alga, apparently a species of Nostoc. 

 It was in irregularly globular masses, from the size of mustard- 

 seed to that of a large pea, and was of an olive-green color. 



September 17. 

 Frof. Frazer in the chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 221 



September 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The death of Prof. Edward Parrish was announced. 



The following were elected members of the Academy : 

 John P. Brock, Henry Leffman, M.D., Thos. Sinnickson, Capt. 



Win. Prince, U. S. A., Jas. C. Rea, M.D., Sarah P. Monks, John 



Doyle, and Thos. A. Robinson. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CATALOGUE AND SYNONYMY OF THE FAMILY GALEOMMID.E. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Family GALEOMMIDiE, H. & A. Adams. 



Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 479. 1857. 



Genus GALEOMMA, Turton. 



Zool. Journ., ii. 361, t. 13 f. 1. 1825. 



Hiatella, Costa (not of Daudin or Brown), Ann. Sc. Nat., xv. 108. 



1828. 

 Parthenope, Sacchi, Osserv. Zool. viii. 19. 1833. 



1. G. angusta, Desh. Zool. Proc. 170. 1855. 



Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. 174, f. 10. 1866. 



Philippines. 



2. G. argentea, Desh. Zool. Proc. 169. 1855. 



Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. 174, f. 13, 14. 1866. 



Philippines. 



3. G. atjrantia, Lam. (Psammobia), Anim. s.Vert. v. 515. 1818. 



G. llauritiana, Sowb. 



Philippines. 



4. G. chloroleuca, Desh. Zool. Proc. 170. 1855. 



Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. 174, f. 12. 1866. 



Philippines. 



5. G. denticulata, Desh. Conch. I. Reunion, 18. 1864. 



Isl. Bourbon. 



6. G. Formosa, Desh. Zool. Proc. 170. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. f. 11. 1866. 



7. G. indecora, Desh. 1. c. 169. 1855. 

 Sowb. 1. c. f. 15. 1866. 



Australia. 



Ins. Masbate. 



8. G. inflata, Desh. 1. c. 170. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. f. 5, 6. 1866. 



7ns. Masbate. 



9. G. Japonica, A. Adams, Ann. and Mag. N. H. ix. 228. 1862. 



Japan. 

 10. G. maciirochisma, Desh. Zool. Proc. 171. 1855. 

 Sowb. 1. c. f. 7, 8. 1866. 



Philippines. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



11. G. paucistriata, Desh. 1. c. HO. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. f. 9. 18G6. 



Philippines. 



12. G. Turtoni, Sowb. Zool. Journ., ii. 361, t. 13, f. 1. 



Th.es. Conch, iii. 172, f. 1-4. 1866. 



Europe. 



Genus LIBEATULA, Pease. 

 Proc. Zool. Soc. 512. 1865. 



1. L. plana, Pease. Zool. Proc 512. 1865. 



Pacific Islands. 



Genus THYSEOPSIS, H. Adams. 

 Zool. Proc. 14. 1868. 

 1. Y. coralliophila, H. Adams, Zool. Proc. 14, t. 4, f. 8, 8 a. 

 1868. 



Mauritius. 



Genus SCINTILLA, Desh. 

 Zool. Proc. 171. 1855. 



1. S. Adamsi, Desh. Zool. Proc. 119. 1855. 



Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. ITT, f. 9. 186 6. 



Philipjnnes. 



2. S. ambigua, Desh. 1. c. 168. Sowb. 1. c. f. 1-4. 



Philippines. 



3. S. anomala, Desh. 1. c. 181. Sowb. 1. c. f. 25, 26. 



Philippines and Australia. 



4. S. aurantiaca, Desh. 1. c. 119. Sowb. 1. c. f. 5. 



Australia. 



5. S. Borneensis, Desh. Sowb. 1. c. f. 10. 



Borneo. 



6. S. Candida, Desh. 1. c. 117. Sowb. 1. c. f. 33. 



Philipipines. 

 1. S. crocea, Desh. 1. c. 115. Sowb. 1. c. f. 63. 



Philipjnnes. 



8. S. crystallina, Desh. 1. c. 111. Sowb. 1. c. f. 53. 



Philippines. 



9. S. Cumingii, Desh. 1. c. 113. Sowb. 1. c. f. 36-38. 



Panama. 



10. S. Cuvieri, Desh. 1. c. 114. Sowb. 1. c. f. 59, 60. 



Philippines. 



11. S. declivis, Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. 119, f. 39. 1866. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



12. S. Deshayesii, Sowb. 1. c. 178, f. 50. 1866. 



8. Layardi, Desh. (not Galeomma). 



13. S. faba, Desh. Zool. Proc. 175. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 177, f. 17. 



14. S. flavida, Desh. 1. c. 179. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 180, f. 64. 1866. 



15. S. Forbesii, Desh. 1. 'c. 179. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 176, f. 7, 8. 1866. 



HabJ 



Philippines. 



16. S. Hanleyi, Desh. 1. c. 180. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 179, f. 22, 27, 28. 1866. 



17. S. hyaltna, Desh. I.e. 180. 1855. 



Sowb. I.e. 179, f. 23, 24. 1866. 



18. S. hydatina, Desh. 1. c. 177. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 180, f. 56, 57. 1866. 



19. S. hydrophana, Desh. 1. c. 178. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 180, f. 02. 1862. 



26. S. 



Borneo. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 

 incerta, Desh. Conch. Ins. Bourbon 17. 1864. 



Mauritius. 

 Jukesit, Desh. Zool. Proc. 174. 1855. 

 Sowb. 1. c. 177, f. 42, 43. 1866. 



Port Essington. 

 lactea, Sowb. Zool. Proc. 517, t. 32, f. 4. 1865. 



Borneo. 

 Layardi, Desh. {Galeomma), 1. c. 169. 1855. 

 Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. 175, f. 20. 1866. 



Ceylon. 

 oblonga, Sowb. Zool. Proc. 517, t. 32, f. 3. 1865. 



Borneo. 

 opalina, Desh. Zool. Proc. 177. 1855. 

 Sowb. Thes. Conch, iii. 179, f. 41. 1866. 



Philippines. 

 ovata, Gould. (Erycina), Bost. Proc. iii. 252. 1866. 



Sandwich Isles. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



225 



27. S. ovulina, Desk. 1. c. 114. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 178, f. 47. 1866. 



28. S. Owenii, Desh. 1. c. 179. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 177, f. 18. 1866. 



29. S. pallidula, Desh. 1. c. 178. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 176, f. 6. 1866. 



30. S. pellicula, Desh. 1. c. 177. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 180, f. 66, 67. 1866. 



31. S. Philippinensis, Desh. 1. c. 176. 1855. 



Sowb. I.e. 179, f. 31, 32. 1866. 



32. S. pisum, Sowb. 1. c. 178, f. 54, 55. 1866. 



33. S. polita, Desh. 1. c. 169. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 175, f. 19. 1866. 



34. S. porulosa, Desh. 1. c. 180. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 177, f. 21. 1866. 



35. S. pudica, Desh. 1. c. 178. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 176, f. 12. 1866. 



36. S. Reclustana, Desh. 1. c. 178. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 176, f. 13. 1866. 



37. S. Reevei, Desh. 1. c. 176. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 179, f. 29, 30. 1866. 



38. S. rosea, Desh. 1. c. 178. 1855. 



Sowb. I.e. 176, f. 11. 1866. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 



Philippines 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 

 Hab.f. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 



Australia. 



Philippines. 



Philippines. 

 39. S. roseo-tincta, Tryon. 



S. rosea, Sowb. (not Desh.) Zool. Proc. 517, t. 32, f. 5, 6. 

 1865. 



Lizard Isles. 




43. S. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



scintillaris, Desh. 1. c. 175. 1855. 



Sowb. Thes. Couch, iii. 178, f. 44. 1866. 



Philippines. 

 semiclausa, Sowb. Zool. Proc. 577, t. 32, f. 1, 2. 1865. 



Borneo. 

 solidula, Desh. 1. c 174. 1855. 



Sowb. Thes. Couch, iii. 178, f. 48, 49. 1866. 



Philippines. 

 squama, Desh. 



Sowb. 1. c 180, f. 65. 1866. 



44. S. splendida, Desh. 1. c 169. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c 175, f. 14, 15. 1866. 



45. S. Strangei, Desh. 1. c 181. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c 177, f. 16. 1866. 



46. S. striatina, Desh. 1. c 176. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c 179, f. 40. 1866. 



47. S. succinea, Desh. 1. c 176. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 178, f. 58. 1866. 



48. S. tenuis, Desh. 1. c. 176. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 177, f. 34. 1866. 



49. S. thoracica, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 35. 1861. 



50. S. Timorensis, Desh. 1. c. 174. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 180, f. 61. 1866. 



51. S. turgescens, Desh. 1. c. 175. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 178, f. 45, 46. 1866. 



52. S. turgida, Desh. I.e. 175. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 178, f. 51, 52. 1866. 



53. S. vitrea, Desh. 1. c. 178. 1855. 



Sowb. 1. c. 180, f. 68. 1866. 

 = S. Cuvieri, junior ? (Desh.) 



HabA 

 Philippines. 



Moreton Bay. 



Philippines. 

 Philip)pines. 



Philipipines. 

 Ousima. 



Ins. Timor. 



Moreton Bay. 



Ph ilippines. 



Philippines. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. - 227 



CATALOGUE AND SYNONYMY OF THE FAMILY LEPTONID33. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Family LEPTONID^E, H. & A. Adams. 



Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 477. 1857. 

 Genus LEPTON, Turton. 

 Brit. Bivalv. 62. 1822. 



Turtonia, Alder, Cat. Moll. Dur. et North. 95, 1848. 



1. L. Adamsi, Angas, Zool. Proc. 910, t. 44, f. 11. 1861. 



Port Jackson, Australia. 



2. L. anomalum, Deshayes. 



HabJ 



3. L. Clementinum, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 110. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



4. L. Clarkije, Clark, Ann. Nat. Hist., 2d ser. 1852. 



Forbes & Hanley, Brit. Conch, iv. 255, t. 132, f. 7. 



England. 



5. L. concentricum, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 33. 1861. 



Sydney Harbor. 



6. L. pabagella, Conrad, Am. Mar. Conch. 53, 1. 11, f. 3. 1831. 



7. L. firmatum, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 33. 1861. 



Simon's Bay. 



8. L. Japonicum, Adams, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. ix. 228. 



Japan. 



9. L. lepidum, Say, Jour. Philacl. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. 221. 1866. 



United States. 



10. L. longipes, Stimpson, Kurtz Catalogue. 



North Carolina. 



11. L. lucidum, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 33. 1861. 



Hong Kong. 



12. L. Merceum, Carpenter. 



Monterey, Gal. 



13. L. minutum, Fabricius, Faun. Groen. 412. 



Turtonia minuta, Forbes & Hanle}^ Brit. Conch, ii. 81, 



t. 18, f. 7 (Animal, t. 0, f. 1). 

 llya purpurea, -Mont. Test. Brit. Suppl. 21. 



England, Greenland. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



14. L. nitidum, Turton, Conch. Dith. 63. 1822. 



Forbes & Hanley, Brit. Conch, ii. 92, t. 36, f. 3, 4. 

 Tar. L. convexum, Alder, Cat. North, et Dur. 93. 

 Forbes & Hanley, 1. c. ii. 102, t. 36, f. 10 



Europe. 



15. L. placunoideum^ Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 111. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



16. L. squamosum, Mont. Test. Brit. i. 565. 1803. 



Forbes & Hanley, Brit. Conch, ii. 98, t, 36, f. 8, 9, t. 0, f. 6. 

 L. nitidum, S. Wood, Crag. Moll. 



Europe. 



17. L. sulcatulum, Jeffreys, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. 34, t. 2, 



f. 2, 1859. 



Europe. 



18. L. translucidum, Souverb. Jour, de Conch, xi. 285, 1. 12, f. 6, 



1863. 



New California. 



19. L. umbonatum, Carpenter Panama Check List. 



Genus TELLIMYA, Brown. 

 Brit. Conch, t. 14. 1147. 



1. T. bidentata, Mont. Test. Brit. 44, t. 26, f. 5. 1803. 



Forbes & Hanlej^, Brit. Conch, ii. 15, t. 18, f. 6, 6, a. 

 Erycina f aba, Nyst. 



Erycina nucleola, Recluz, Rev. Zool. 331. 1844. 

 Mesodesma exigua, Loven. 



Norway England. 



2. T. Dawsoni, Jeffreys, Brit. Conch, ii. 216. 1863. V. 178. 1869. 



Scotland. 



3. T.donacina, Jeffreys, Brit. Conch, ii. 216. 1863. V. 178. 1869. 



England Shetland. 



4. T. ferruginea, Mont. Test. Brit. 44, t. 26, f. 5. 1803. 



Forbes & Hanley, Brit. Moll. ii. 72 t. 18, f. 5. 



Amphidesma Goodalliana, Leach, Synopsis. 



Amphidesma purpurascens, Lam. 



Tellimya elliptica, Bronw. Brit. Conch. 106, t. 42, f. 19. 



Tellimya glabra, ibid. 107, t. 42, f. 20, 21. 



Tellimya ovata, S. Wood, Crag. Moll. 



Erycina Eranciscana, Recluz, Rev. Zool. 330. 1844. 



Montacuta tenella, Loven, 197. 



Europe. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 229 



5. T. Japonica, A. Adams, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ix. 225. 1862. 



Japan. 



6. T. tumlda, Carpenter, Philad, Proc. 58. 1865. 



Sts. of Fuca to San Diego, Gal. 



7. T. tumidula, Jeffreys, Brit. Conch, v. 177. 1869. 



Shetland, Hebrides. 



CATALOGUE AND SYNONYMY OF THE FAMILY LASELDJE. 

 BY GEO. W. TRYON, JR. 



Family LASEID^, H. & A. Adams. 



Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii., 473. 1857. 

 Genus LASEA, Leach. 

 Brown, Brit. Conch., t. xx. 1827. 

 Poronia, Recluz. Revue Zool., 166. 1843. 

 Cycladina, Cantraine, Bull. Brux. ii., 399. 1835. 



1. L. Australis, Souverbie, Jour, de Conch. 287, 1. 12, f. 8. 1863. 



New Caledonia, Australia. 



2. L. incerta, Recluz. 



3. L. Parreysii, Phil. Zeit. Mai. 72. 1847. 



Australia. 



4. L. physoides, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 493. 1818. 



Port George. 



5. L. purpurata, Phil. Zeit. Mai. 72. 1847. 



Australia. 



6. L. rubra, Mont. Test. Brit. 83, t. 27, f. 4. 



Amphidesma nucleola, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 493. 1818. 



Erycina violacea, Scacchi, Cat. 6. 



Cycladina Adansonii, Cantraine, Bui. Acad. Brux. ii. 

 1835 



Bornia semilunum, Phil. Moll. Sicil. i. 14, 1. 1, f. 16. 1836. 



Poronia Petitiana, Chenu, 111. Conch, t. 1, f. 2. 



Cyclas Australis, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. v. 560. 1818. 



Iceland, Norway, England to Mediterranean, 

 W. Coast Africa to Gape Good Hope, Ca- 

 nary Islands, Massachusetts to Magellan's 

 Straits, West Coast of North and South 

 America, Singapore, Timor, Java, Aus- 

 tralia,. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OE 



7. L. scalaris, Phil. Zeit. Mai. 72. 1847. 



8. L. spurca, Recluz. 



9. L. trigonalis, Carpenter, Maz. Cat. 109. 1857. 



Genus THECODONTA, A. Adams. 

 Ann. and Mag. N. Hist. xiii. 308. 1864. 



1. T. Siebaldi, A. Adams, loc. cit. 



Australia. 



Mazatlan. 



Japan. 



Genus KELLIA, Turton. 

 Brit. Biv. 57. 1822. 

 Bornia, Phil. Moll. Sicil. 1, 13. 1836. 

 Chironia, Desb. Rev. Zool. 356. 1839. 

 Erycina, Recluz (not Lam.) Rev. Zool. 291. 1844. 

 Solecardia, Conrad, Proc Phil. Acad. 155. 1849. 



1. K. Australis, Desh. Zool. Proc. 183. 1855. 



Australia. 



2. K. balaustina, Gould, Bost. Proc. 33. 1861. 



Sidney, Australia. 



3. K. bulla, Gould, Bost. Proc. 33. 1861. 



Loo Choo. 



4. K. bullata, Phil. Archiv fur Xaturg. 51. 1845. 



Sts. of Magellan. 



5. K. bullula, Desh. Zool. Proc. 182. 1855. 



Philippines. 



6. K. complanata, Phil. Enum. Moll. Sicil. 1, 14, 1. 1, f. 14. 1836. 



Mediterranean. 



7. K. convexa, Gould, Bost. Proc. 33. 1861. 



Cape of Good Hope. 



8. K. corbuloldes, Phil. Enum. Moll. Sicil. 1, 14, t. 1, f. 15. 



Mediterranean. 



9. K. crenulata, Gould, Bost. Proc. 33. 1861. 



Hong Kong. 



10. K. Cycladiformis, Desh. Traite Elem. t. 11, f. 6-9. 



Australia. 



11. K. denticulata, Desb. Zool. rroc. 182. 1855. 



Borneo. 



12. K. dubia, Peshayes, Zool. Proc. 183. 1855. 



Guayaquil. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



13. K. guttula, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 182. 1855. 



Philippines. 



14. K. grata, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 183. 1855. 



Philippines. 



15. K. Laperousii, Desh. Guerin's Mag. Zool. 1839. 



Yar. rotundata, Carp. Jour, de Conch. 137. 18G5. 

 Var. Chironii, Carp. Jour, de Conch. 136. 1865. 



Coast of California, northwards. 



16. K. Mac-Andrewi, Fischer, Jour, de Conch. 194, t. 9, f. 1. 1867. 



North of Spain ; Gironde, France. 



17. K. macrodonta, Desh. Zool. Proc. 182. 1855. 



Philippines. 



18. K. miliaris, Phil. Archiv fur Naturg. 51. 1845. 



Magellan's Sfs. 



19. K. oblonga (? Lasea), Carp. Maz. Cat. 109. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



20. K. papyracea, Desh. Zool. Proc. 183. 1855. 



Columbia. 



21. K. parva, Desh. Zool. Proc. 182. 1855. 



Phili-pjiines. 



22. K. Petitiana, Recluz. Rev. Zool. 175. 1843. 



Callao. 



23. K. planulata, Sthnpson, Shells, N. E. 17. 1850. 



Gould, Invert. Mass., 2d edit. f. 393. 1870. 

 K. rubra, Gld. (not Montagu.) Invert. 1st edit. 60. 



Massachusetts. 



24. K. pulciira, Phil. Zeit. Moll. 149. 1848. 



W. America. 



25. K. quadrula, Gould, Bost. Proc. iii., 252. 1850. 



Fiji Isles. 



26. K. rotunda, Desh. Zool. Proc. 181. 1855. 



So. Australia. 



27. K. rugosa, Recluz. 



28. K. seminulum, Phil. 



29. K. suborbicularis, Mont. Test. Brit. 39, t. 26, f. 6. 1803. 



Erycina Geoff royi, Payr. Moll. Corse, 30, t. 1, f. 3-5. 



Erycina pisum, Sacchi. Cat. p. 6. 



Bornia inflata, Phil. Enum. Moll. Sicil. 



Oronthea Montaguana, Leach. 



Tellimya tenuis, Brown, 111. Brit. Conch, t. 42, f. 12, 13. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cyclas pustula, Costa. 

 Cycladina clandestina, Costa. 



Yar. Kellia lactea, Brown, 111. Brit. Conch. 106, t. 42, f. 10, 11. 

 Europe, Canary, Isles, Massachusetts, Aracan 

 (Hanley), Mazatlan (Carpenter). 



30. K. subrugosa, Souverb. Jour. Conch, xi. 286, t, 12, f. 7. 1863. 



Neiv Caledonia. 



31. K. subtrigona, Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 42, t. 2, f. 1. 

 1858. Brit. Conch, ii. 228. 1863. 



England. 



32. K. tellinoides, Hartley, Zool. Proc. 340. 1856. 



Philippines. 



33. K. undulata, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 33. 1861. 



Kagosima. 



34. K. Zebuensis, Desh. Zool. Proc. 182. 1855. 



Genus CYCLADELLA, Carpenter. 

 Zool. Proc. 270. 1865. 



1. C. papyracea, Carp. Zool. Proc. 270. 1865. 



Philippines. 



Mazatlan. 



Genus PYTHINA, Hinds. 

 Zool. Voy. Sulphur. 70. 1844. 



1. P. arcuata, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 47. 1856. 



Indian Ocean. 



2. P. compacta, Gould {Kellia), Bost. Proc. viii. 33. 1861. 



Hab. ? 



3. P. Cumingii, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 47. 1856. 



Indian Ocean. 



4. P. Deshayesiana, Hinds. Voy. Sulphur. 70. 1844. 



H. & A. Adams, Genera iii. t. 114, f. 9. 



5. P. Desiiayesii, Orb. et Recluz. Rev. Zool. 299, 325. 1844. 



So. Australia. 



6. P. Mactroides, Hanley, Zool. Proc. 340. 1856. 



Cape Good Hope. 



7. P. nuculoides, Hanley, Zool. Proc. 341. 1856. 



Society Islands. 



8. P. paula, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 47. 1856. 



9. P. peculiaris, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 47. 1856. 



Indian Ocean. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



10. P. rugifera, Carpenter, Philad. Proc. 57. 1865. 



Sts. of Fuca. 



11. P. striatissima, Sowb. Zool. Proc. 317, t. 32, f. 7. 1865. 



Borneo. 



12. P. suBLiEVis, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 112. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



13. P. triangularis, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 47. 1856. 



Indian Ocean. 



Genus MONTACUTA, Turton. 

 Conch. Diet. 102. 1819. 



1. M. chalcedonica, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 531. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



2. M. convexa, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 35. 1861. 



Shnon's Bay. 



3. M. Coquimbensis, Hanley, Zool. Proc. 340. 1856. 



Coquimbo. 



4. M. Dion/EA, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. iii. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



5. M. divaricata, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 88. 1861. 



Hakodadi. 



6. M. elliptica, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 113. 1857. 



Mazatlan 



7. M. Gouldi, Thomson, Am. Journ. Conch, iii. 33. 1867. 



New Bedford, Mass. 



8. M. obtusa, Carpenter, Zool. Proc. 270. 1865. 



Mazatlan. 



9. M. subquadrata, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 113. 1857. 



Mazatlan. 



10. M. substriata, Mont. Test. Brit. Suppl. 25. 



Forbes & Hanley, Brit. Moll. ii. 77, 1. 18, f. 8, 8a, pi. 0, f. 2. 

 M. spatangi, Brusina, Contrib. 99. 



Norway to Mediterranean. 



11. M. transversa, Forbes, Rep. ^Egean Invert. 192. 



Crete and More a. 



12. M.tumidula, Jeffreys, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist, xviii. 396. 1866. 



Hebrides 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Genus CYAMIUM, Phil. 

 Archiv fur Naturgescii. i. 50. 1845. 



1. C. antarcttcum, Phil. Archiv fur Naturg. 50. 1845. 



Gregory Bay, Patagonia. 



2. C. elevatum, Stimpson (Montacula), Shells of New Eng. 16. 



1851. 

 Gould, Invert. Mass. 2d edit. f. 396. 1870. 

 Montacuta bidentata (not of Mont.), Gould, Invert., 1st 



edit. 59. 1844. 



Coast of New England. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



ON THE AGENCY OF INSECTS IN OBSTRUCTING EVOLUTION. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Since so much which has been learned in regard to the agency 

 of insects in the cross fertilization of flowers, I understand the 

 drift of scientific thought to be in the direction of the general 

 principle, that in the hypothesis of evolution insects play an im- 

 portant part. It does not seem to have occurred to any observer 

 that they may act as an obstruction to any great departure from 

 what we may take as the normal form that but for them varia- 

 tions would probably often be much greater than they are. 



It has fallen to my lot to observe and to place on record in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 the American Naturalist, and elsewhere, that art has not so much 

 to do with garden variations as generally supposed ; that varia- 

 tions in nature are as great as in horticulture; and that the 

 florist's credit is chiefly due in preserving the form which un- 

 assisted nature provided for him. It was at one time part of the 

 essential idea of a species that it would reproduce itself. If any 

 variation occurred in nature, it was taken for granted that seed- 

 lings from this variation would revert to the parent form. But it 

 is now known that the most marked peculiarity in variation can 

 be reproduced in the progeny, if care be taken to provide against 

 fertilization by another form. Thus, the blood-leaved variety of the 

 English beech will produce blood-leaved beeches; and, as I have 

 myself found by experiment, the very pendulous weeping peach 

 produces from seed plants as fully characteristic as its parent ; 

 and when the double blossomed peaches bear fruit, as they some- 

 times do, I have it on the authority of a careful friend that the 

 progeny is doubled as its parent was. But I need not refer 

 particularly to this. Any intelligent florist of the present age 

 can testify to the fact, that varieties will reproduce themselves as 

 fully as the original forms from whence they sprung. 



I do not think botanists, as such, are so fully aware of these 

 facts as the florists are. They scarcely admit of much inherent 

 variation in form in nature ; but look rather to hybridization, and 

 insect agency in connection therewith, to account for the changes 

 when they occur. In order to avoid the possibility of these 

 agencies acting as the sole factors in evolution, I have generally 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



taken a genus consisting of only one species in a given locality, to 

 show how great is the variations in form, where no congenital 

 species could mix with it. I have, for this, chosen Epigaea repens, 

 Chrysanthemum leucanihemum, and the Qtiercus neo-mexicana (Q. 

 Gunnissonii ?) of the Rocky Mountains papers which most of 

 the readers of this will probably remember. Another familiar 

 plant to illustrate this is the common yellow toad flax, Linaria 

 vulgaris. In a handful of specimens gathered in an afternoon's 

 walk. I find the following marked variations: 



In regard to the spur, which is generally as long as the main 

 portion of the corolla, some have them only one-third or one-fourth 

 as long; and in one instance the plant bears flowers entirely 

 apurless. Dr. James Darrach, a member of the Academy, informs 

 me that he believes he has, in years past, gathered a spurless form, 

 but has neglected to place it on record. Then some plants bear 

 flowers with spurs thick, and others with narrow ones ; and wdiile 

 some have spurs quite straight, others curve so as to describe 

 nearly the half of a circle. The lobing of the lower lip is various. 

 In some cases the two lateral ones spread away from the small 

 central one, leaving a free space all around it ; at other times they 

 overlap the central one so that it is scarcely seen. Sometimes the 

 small central lobe is nearly wanting often not more than half 

 the depth of the two large lobes, and at times quite as full, 

 when it may be linear, ovate, or nearly orbicular. The palate, 

 as the deep colored process attached to the lower lip may be 

 called, also varies. In color it is pale lemon, but often a brilliant 

 orange. Sometimes it is but about the eighth of an inch in 

 thickness ; at others one-fourth, in flowers of the same size. In 

 the case of the shallow flat palate, the attached lobes are patent, 

 or even incurved ; while in the thick ones they are very much 

 reflexed. These two forms, when the extremes are selected, are 

 as strikingly distinct as two species often are. Again, the palate 

 is rounded and blunt at the apex ; at other times almost wedge- 

 shaped, or at least narrowing to a blunt point. The upper lip 

 varies in proportionate length, sometimes not extending much 

 beyond the palate, sometimes half an inch more ; then the 

 margins are sometimes bent down like the wings of a swooping 

 bird ; or upwards as in those of a rapidly descending one. Some- 

 times they are united and turned abruptly up at the apex, like 

 the keel of the garden pea. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23? 



And now in regard to the bearing of all these facts on the great 

 scientific questions of the day, we have to note first, that the 

 plant is an introduced weed, with nothing allied to it anywhere, 

 in the localities where we usually find it, with which it can 

 possibly hybridize. The variations must be from some natural 

 law of evolution inherent in the plant itself. Varieties of course 

 may cross-fertilize as well as species ; and some of these varia- 

 tions may be owing to one form fertilizing another form ; but 

 there can be no avoiding the fact, that at least the first pair of 

 varying forms must have originated by simple evolution. 



Now going back to our florists' experience the question occurs, 

 that as varieties once evolved will reproduce themselves from 

 seed, why does not some one of these Linarias, which has been 

 struck off into some distinct mould, reproduce itself from seed, 

 and establish, in, a state of nature, a new race, as it would do under 

 the florist's care ? Why, for instance, is there not a spurless race? 

 It is scarcely probable that the solitary plant, found on this after- 

 noon's walk, is the only one ever produced. Dr. Darrach's 

 recollection shows it is not a solitary case. The bumblebee 

 furnishes the answer. They, so far as I have been able to see, 

 are the only insects which visit these flowers. They seem very 

 fond of them, and enter regularly at the mouth, and stretch down 

 deep into the spur for the sweets gathered there. The pollen 

 is collected on the thorax, and of course is carried to the next 

 flower. The florist, to " fix" the form, carefully isolates the plant . 

 but in the wild state a spurless form has no chance. The bee 

 from the neighboring flower of course fertilizing it with the 

 pollen from any of the other forms. 



If there were no bees, no agenc}^ whatever for cross fertilization, 

 nothing but the plant's own pollen to depend on, there would 

 undoubtedly be races of this linaria, which, again, by natural 

 evolution at times changing, would produce other races ; and in 

 time the difference might be as great as to be even though 

 generic. But we see that by the agency of the bumblebee the 

 progress of the newly evolved form is checked. The pollen of 

 the original form is again introduced to the offspring, and it is 

 brought back at least half a degree to its starting point. 



The conclusion seems to me inevitable, that insects in their 

 fertilizing agencies, are not always abettors, but rather at times 

 conservators of advancing evolution. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



October 1. 



Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Astartidse." By 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



" Catalogue of the Family Solemyidae." By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Notice of a Corundum Mine Prof. Leidy remarked that he 



had visited a corundum mine recently opened on the farm of Mr. 

 George Ball, in the vicinity of Unionville, Chester Co., Pa. The 

 accumulation is perhaps the most extraordinary discovered, and 

 its extent yet remains unknown. Detached crystals of corundum 

 have often been found in the ploughed fields and roadsides of the 

 neighborhood, and also masses or boulders of the same material 

 have been discovered on the surface of the ground or buried in 

 the local drift covering the deeper rocks. In several instances 

 boulders of nearly pure corundum have been found in the locality 

 up to several tons in weight. A company was led to seek for this 

 important mineral, and for the purpose sunk a shaft in a neighbor- 

 ing hill of albite, but without success. Mr. John Smedley, an in- 

 telligent farmer, employed by the proprietors of the mine, was led 

 to the discovery of the corundum by noticing the direction of the 

 boulders in the surface drift. Tracing it to the top of the hill, he 

 found it about five feet below the surface. 



The corundum, as exposed to view at the bottom of a trench, 

 appears as the crest of a large body or vein lying between a de- 

 composing gneiss and a white talcose schist. The vein appears to 

 extend in a western direction and towards the east turns at an 

 obtuse angle to the northeast. The exposed portion ma} 7 prob- 

 ably reach twenty or more feet and averages about six feet in 

 depth and five feet in thickness at bottom, and is estimated to 

 contain about fifty tons. How much further the vein extends 

 west and northeast, and how far it reaches in depth and thickness, 

 can only be determined by future mining. It looks as if it pro- 

 mised to be the most valuable deposit of corundum ever found. 



The rock on the south side of the vein is the white talcose 

 schist above mentioned. In immediate contact with the corundum 

 it appears to be metamorphosed into the material described a feu- 

 years ago by our fellow member, Mr. Lea, under the name of 

 Leslej'ite. The schist on the declivity of the hill is contiguous to 

 steatite and serpentine. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



The corundum is the pure material, and is not emery. The 

 masses are made up of a close aggregation of crystals with the 

 intervals occupied with margarite. Some of the fissures and sur- 

 faces of the masses display large and beautiful crystalline plates 

 of margarite, and occasionally unusally fine crystals of diaspore. 

 Some of the crystals of corundum appear to have undergone par- 

 tial metamorphosis into margarite. The corundum is bluish-gray, 

 of very compact texture, aud does not cleave so readily as the 

 North Carolina mineral. 



The various specimens of corundum and other minerals found 

 iri association with it, presented to the Academy this evening by 

 Mr. Ball, were obtained at the locality described. 



October 8. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked, that as botanists well knew, 

 Quercus prinoides seldom grew more than two feet in height. It 

 was one of the smallest of shrubs. In his collections in Kansas, 

 he found oaks in the vicinity of Leavenworth, which made small 

 trees from ten to fifteen feet high, and with stems from one to two 

 feet in circumference. He was entirely satisfied that it is identical 

 in every respect but size with the Q. prinoides of the eastern 



States. 



Among trees there are few which produce forms as low shrubs ; 

 but the Pinus Banksiana, in the East but a bush of five or ten feet, 

 grew often forty feet along the shores of Lake Superior ; the Gas- 

 tanea pumila, Chinquapin chestnut, when it gets out of the sands of 

 New Jersey into the clayey soils west of the Delaware, often grew 

 as large as many full grown apple trees; while the Geltis occiden- 

 talism which in the East is generally but a straggling bush along 

 fence corners, is in Ohio a large spreading tree with enormous 

 trunk, and in Indiana is as lofty and as graceful as an elm. 



He also exhibited a section of a stem of Wistaria sinensis, and 

 called the attention of members to a curious arrangement of the 

 wood and bark. The vertical section showed by the annual rings 

 of wood that it was about twelve years old. After the eighth 

 year's circle there was a layer of bark, and over this layer two 

 more circles of wood. On a portion of the section another layer 

 of bark had formed between the tenth and eleventh years' circles 

 of wood. The bark seemed to be wholly of liber, the cellular 

 matter and external cortical-layer of the regular bark appeared to 

 be wanting. A longitudinal section showed where these internal 

 layers of bark extended no further upwards, and at this point there 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



was an evident flow of wood from the interior over and down this 

 layer of inclosed bark. 



He remarked that this section of wood was taken from a stem 

 which had been led to support itself in an upright position.. When 

 the Wistaria is permitted to trail along the ground numerous 

 rootlets are formed along its length. He thought from the appear- 

 ance of the wood, in the specimen presented, that rootlets had 

 partiall} r formed in these erect stems, pushing through the liber, 

 and then instead of penetrating entirely through the bark, and 

 forming perfect rootlets, they remained within the cellular matter, 

 and descending joined with the regular woody layer in forming 

 an annular course of wood. This explanation was the more 

 plausible, he thought, from the fact that woody stems formed on 

 the ground. Where the rootlets went quite through into the earth, 

 the stems were nearly regularly cylindrical ; but these upright 

 stems on which rootlets were never seen had an irregular fluted 

 appearance; of course, this explanation does not accord with the 

 formation of wood in ligneous structures as generally understood ; 

 but he could not understand how the appearance presented could 

 have occurred in any other way, than as he had supposed. 



Attention was called to a twin apple, on the table, with two stems 

 and stem cavities, and two cabyx basins a little below which, how- 

 ever, an union had taken place. Mr. Meehan said these phenomena 

 were rather common with various fruits and the mode of produc- 

 tion well understood. It was simply the inarching of two fruits 

 at a very early stage of their existence, through two embryonic 

 blossoms having perhaps been produced in juxtaposition from one 

 bud. 



Dr. Joseph Carson said that he thought the variety exhibited, 

 the winesap, had a tendency to pair young buds and thus bring 

 forth these united twin fruit. He had once known a tree of them 

 which produced a large proportion of the fruit of this character. 

 He had seen perhaps a peck of them which had been gathered at 

 one time from the tree. 



October 15. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 



Twent} r -one members present. 



Bemarks on Fossil Mammals from Wyoming. Prof. Leidy di- 

 rected attention to the collection of fossils, from the vicinity of 

 Fort Bridger, Wyoming, presented this evening by Dr. J. Tan 

 A. Carter, Dr. Joseph K. Corson, U. S. A., and himself. Among 

 them are the more characteristic remains noticed in a letter sent 

 by him to the Academy last July, published August 1st, and sub- 

 sequently in the Proceedings, page 1G7. Some of the fossils were 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



referred to a huge pachyderm with the name of Uintatherium 

 robustum. Of this animal Drs. Carter and Corson found together 

 a number of parts of the same skeleton, consisting of the back 

 portion of a cranium retaining parts of both temporal fossae, the 

 occiput and the occipital condyles; parts of the upper and lower 

 jaws containing the back molars ; a mutilated humerus ; a proximal 

 and a distal extremity of a femur ; and a calcaneum and an astra- 

 galus. These were found 10 miles from Dry Creek Canon, about 

 50 miles from Fort Bridger. In Dry Creek Canon Prof. Leidy 

 found a mutilated atlas and the body of an axis, evidently of the 

 same animal. 



Ten miles distant from the locality in which the former remains of 

 Uintatherium were found, Dr. Corson discovered the large canines, 

 originally referred to Uintamastix atrox. While it was suspected 

 that they might pertain to Uintatherium, no evidence was found 

 to sustain the opinion, and from their resemblance to the canines 

 of the great Brazilian sabre-toothed tiger Machairodus, they were 

 referred to a carnivore with the name just stated. 



Prof. Marsh has since published a notice, dated Sept. 27th and 

 appearing in the October number of the Amei - iean Journal of 

 Science, of a skull from Wyoming, under the name of Dinoceras 

 mirabilis, which appears to be the same as Uintatherium robustum. 

 The skull he observes is entire and is 28^ inches long. It is pro- 

 vided with three pairs of horn cores and huge decurved canine 

 tusks. The top of the skull is deeply concave and has around its 

 lateral and posterior margins an enormous crest. This description 

 will apply to our cranium, as does also that of the molar teeth to 

 those in our upper jaw specimens. The description of the canines 

 equally well applies to those referred to Uintamastix atrox, so 

 that it would appear that this and Dinoceras mirabilis are the 

 same as Uintatherium robustum. 



Some of the fossils belong to Pal^osyops major, a large tapir- 

 like animal. Of this we have a number of fine specimens, including 

 a cranium, the face and parts of the jaws of a second individual, 

 and several rami of lower jaws with well preserved teeth of others. 

 These were discovered by Drs. Carter and Corson in Dry Creek 

 Canon. The genus was originally noticed in the Proceedings of 

 this Academy for 1870. It was founded on a few teeth and was 

 supposed to be an even-toed pachyderm. From more complete 

 material its true position as an odd-toed pachyderm was recog- 

 nized, and its characters more fully given in Prof. Hayden's Pre- 

 liminary Report of the U. S. Geological Survey of Montana, etc., 

 published in the beginning of this year. The last August, Prof. 

 Marsh published a notice, in the American Journal of Science, 

 of some fossils from Wyoming which he ascribes to two genera 

 under the name of Palasosyops and Limnohyus. From the notice 

 it would appear he has overlooked the description of Palseosyops 

 in the Report just named, fpr he intimates the reference of the 

 genus to the perissodactyls as if previously unknown and sug- 




242 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



gests the reference to it of specimens in which the "last upper 

 molar has two inner cones," though it is distinctly stated in the 

 above Report that " the last upper molar of Palaeosyops has but a 

 single lobe to the inner part of the crown." Upon the latter char- 

 acter Prof. Marshproposed the genus Limnohyus, which, under the 

 circumstances is untenable, but might with propriety be applied 

 to the animal with molars like those of Palaeosyops, except that 

 the last upper one has two inner cones to the crown. In this view, 

 a specimen in the collection, of a last upper molar tooth, which I 

 had ascribed to Palaeosyops humilis on account of its comparatively 

 small size, would belong to Limnohyus. 



Remarks on Chipped Stones from Wyoming. Prof. Leidy 

 further called attention to a multitude of chipped stones, which 

 he had collected about 10 miles northeast of Fort Bridger. He 

 observed that he had noticed in many places in the vicinity of 

 Fort Bridger, covering the plains and ravines at the base of the 

 foot hills of the Uintas, great quantities of sharply fractured stone 

 fragments. They are frequently mingled with the rounded peb- 

 bles of the drift from the Uintas, but in other places are thickly 

 strewn over the ground without being mingled with the drift. 

 Mai^ of the fragments are broken in such a manner that it is 

 difficult to be convinced that they are not of artificial origin. 

 Mingled with the more evident accidental flakes there occur great 

 numbers of stone implements of the rudest construction, such as 

 those exhibited on the table. A few are also found of the finest 

 finish. Between these and the stone spawls of accidental origin 

 there occurs such a gradation of form as to render it doubtful at 

 times when nature ceased her labor and where primitive man com- 

 menced with his. 



The materials of the splintered stones consist of jaspers, quart- 

 zites, some of the softer rocks of the tertiary strata, and less fre- 

 quently of black flint, identical in appearance with that of the Eng- 

 lish chalk. The latter material I nowhere found in position, but 

 have been informed by Prof. Hayden that it occurs in the cliffs of 

 Henry's Fork of Green River. 



The accidental flakes probably had their origin through the 

 agency of frosts, and from the concussion of stones descending 

 from the declivities. In experimenting on some weather-Avorn 

 slabs of jasper from the buttes of Dry Creek, I found that mode- 

 rate blows of a hammer would send off sharp spawls, l-eminding 

 one of the ancient Hint knives. 



The splintered stones appear greatly to differ in age; while some 

 appear perfectly fresh as if recently broken from the parent block, 

 others are dull and worn, and many so deeply altered by exposure 

 as to look very ancient. In some of the old looking specimens, 

 the jasper originally black or brown has become whitened to the 

 depth of half an inch or more. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked as follows : I may take this op- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



portunity of referring to one of the simplest of stone implements 

 yet in use among the Indians of Wyoming. During my stay at 

 Fort Bridger the Shoshones made a visit to the post, and en- 

 camped on Black's Fork in its vicinity for a week. They comprised 

 about 800 persons with about 80 lodges and 1 000 horses. Being the 

 first time I had had a chance of seeing a tribe of Indians, I felt 

 much interest in observing them. While wandering through their 

 camp I noticed the women engaged in dressing buffalo skins with 

 a stone implement, the only one of the material I discovered in 

 use among them. It was a thin segment from a quartzite boulder, 

 made by a single smart blow with another stone and with no other 

 preparation. Several specimens I exhibit to the Academy, ob- 

 tained by my friend Dr. Carter, who ascertained that the instru- 

 ment was called a Te-sho-a. By an accident I learned that it was 

 not a recent instrument incidental to the place and circumstances. 

 While on an excursion after fossils, I noticed on the side of a 

 bntte some weathered human bones, which had fallen from a grave 

 above. With them I found some perforated tusks of the elk and 

 one of the stone teshoa. As the grave was an old one, which had 

 become exposed by the wearing away of the edge of the butte, it 

 made it probable that the teshoa did not belong alone to the 

 present generation. 



The tusks of the elk are used by the Shoshones as ornamental 

 trophies. They form another evidence of the early relationship of 

 man, as I observe in a recent number of the American Journal of 

 Science, that similar ornaments were found together with flint 

 knives, in association with a human skeleton, in a cavern of 

 Brousse-rousse, in Italy. 



Remarks on the Action of Wind and Sand on Bocks. Prof. 

 Leidy then directed attention to some specimens of quartzite and 

 jasper, which he observed illustrated the eroding and polishing 

 effect of the conjoint action of wind and sand. They were collected 

 by him from one of the buttes of Wyoming. In some situations the 

 stones, firmly imbedded in the hard clay of the buttes, and exposed 

 to an almost incessant action of winds and sand, are all much 

 worn and highly polished. He remarked that many of the sand- 

 stone cliffs and other rocks of the West, which were supposed to 

 owe their eroded, cavernous, and often fantastic appearance to the 

 action of water, he thought was largely due to the conjoined 

 action of winds and sands. 



The death of Prof. John Frazer was announced. 



October 22. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members were present. 

 The death of Constant Guillou was announced. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



October 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 

 The following gentlemen were elected members: 



J. 0. Schimmel and Dr. John F. Bransford, U. S. A. Dr. Geo. 

 M. Sternberg, XL S. N., was elected a Correspondent. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



CATALOGUE AND SYNONYMY OF THE FAMILY ASTAKTID.E. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Family ASTARTID^E, H. & A. Adams. 

 Genera of Recent Mollnsca, ii. 483. 1857. 

 Genus ASTAETE, J. Sowerby. 

 Mineral Conch., t. 137. 1816. 



Crassina, Lamarck, Anim. s. Yert. v. 554. 1818. 



Tridonta, Schumacher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst. 146. 1817. 



Mactrina, Brown, Brit. Conch. 1827. 



Nicania, Leach, Jour. Phys. lxxxviii. 4G5. 1819. 



A. bipartita, Philippi, Enura, Moll, sicil i. 32, t. 3, f. 21. 1836. 



Mediterranean. 

 A. borealis, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vii. t. 39, f. 412. 1T84. 



Astarte arctica, Gray, App. Capt. Parry's Voyage. 1824. 

 Astarte cyprinoides, Duval, Rev. Zool. 278. 1841. 

 Astarte plana, Sowerby, Min. Conch, t. 179, f. 2. 

 Astarte compressa, Macgillivray, Moll. Aberd. 261. 1842. 

 Crassina corrugata, Brown, 111. Brit. Conch. 96, t. 40, f. 24. 

 Astarte lactea, Brod. & Sowerby, Zool. Jour. iv. 365. 1828. 

 Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 781, t. 167, f. 21-23. 1855. 

 Astarte semisulcata, Leach, Ann. Philos. xiv. f. 204. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 781, 1. 167, f. 16. 1855. 

 Astarte lactea, Gould (not Brod.), Invert. Mass., 1st edit. 

 80, f. 47. 1841. 



Northern Seas. 

 A. castanea, Say, Jour. Philad. Acad. ii. 273. 1822. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 782, t. 167, f. 14, 15. 1855. 

 Astarte crassidens, Brod. et Sowb. Zool. Jour. iv. 1828. 

 Venus sulcata, Montagu (not Da Costa), Test. Brit. 131. 



1803. 



British America to New Jersey. 

 A. compressa, Montagu, Test. Brit. Suppl. 43, t. 26, f. 1. 1808. 

 Venus Montagui, Dillwyn, Des. Cat. 1817. 

 Astarte striata, Gray, App. Beechy's Voyage, t. 44, f. 9. 

 Astarte multicostata, Macgillivray, Moll. Aberd. 260. 1843. 

 Astarte globosa, M oiler, Index Moll. Gro'enl. 20. 1842. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Astarte compacta, P. P. Carpenter, Proc. Philad. Acad. 57. 



1865. 

 Venus Montacuti, Turtori, Conch. Diet. 243. 1819. 

 Crassina convexiuscula, Leach, Brown, Brit. Conch. 96, t. 



38, f. 7. 1844. 

 Crassina obliqua, Brown, Brit. Conch. 97, t. 38, f. 6. 1844. 

 Astarte Banksii, Leach, App. Ross' Voyage. 1819. 

 Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 781, t. 167, f. 8. 1855. 

 Astarte multicostata, J. Smith. 

 Astarte uddevallensis, J. Smith. 

 Astarte propinqua, Landsboi'ough. 



Northern Seas of Europe, Asia, and America. 

 A. crebricostata, Forbes, Ann. Nat. Hist. xix. 98, t. 9, f. 4. 

 Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 780, t. 167, f. 10. 1855. 

 Astarte Warhami, Hancock. 



Crassina depressa, Brown, Brit. Conch. 96, t. 38, f. 2. 

 1844. 

 Tar. Astarte elliptica, Brown, 111. Brit. Conch. 96, t. 38, f. 3. 

 1844. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 779, f. 167, f. 4. 1855. 

 Astarte semisulcata, Moller (not Leach), Moll. Groenl. 19. 



1842. 

 Crassina sulcata, Nilson, Nov. Act. Holm. 187, t. 2, f. 1, 2. 



1822. 

 Crassina ovata, Brown (not Smith), Edin. Jour. t. 1, f. 8, 9. 

 Venus incrassata, Brocchi, Coq. Foss. Subapp. ii. 557, t. 



14, f. 7. 

 Astarte Gaviensis, James Smith. 



Astarte Portlandica, Mighels, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 

 129. 1843. 



Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist. iv. 320, 345, t. 16, f. 2. 1843. 

 Astarte quadrans, Gould, Invert. Mass. Edit. i. 81, f. 48. 

 1841. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 782, t. 167, f. 51. 1855. 



Northern Europe and America. 

 A. flabagella, Conrad, Proc. Phil. Acad. iii. 24, t. 1, f. 3. 1846. 



Tampa Bay, Florida. 

 A. fluctuata, Carpenter, Proc. Calif. Acad. iii. 209. 1866. 



California. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 24 7 



A. intermedia, Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 779, 1. 167, f. 11. 1855. 



Northern Europe. 

 A. longirostra, D'Orb. Yoy. Amer. Merid. 576, t. S3, f. 21-24. 

 1846. 



Malouin Isles. 

 A. lunulata, Conrad, Foss. Tert. Form. 44, t. 21, f. 8. 

 A. bilunulata, Conrad, Adams, Genera, ii. 



Southern Coast United States. 

 A. lutea, Perkins, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. xiii. 151. 1869. 



Neiu Haven, Conn. 

 A. oblonga, Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 781, t. 167, f. 19. 1855. 



Hub.? 

 A. RoLLANDi, Bernardi, Jour, de Conchy. C. vii. 386, t. 13, f. 1. 

 1S58. 



Petrapolowski. 



A. pulchella, Jonas, Philippi, Abbild. t. 1, f. 12. 



Spitzenbergen. 

 A. sulcata, Da Costa, Brit. Conch. 192. 1778. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 778, t. 167, f. 1-3. 1855. 

 Crassina Danmoniensis, Lamarck, Anim. s. Yert. Ed. 



Deshayes, vi. 360. 

 Crassina Scotica, Turton, Conch. Dith. Brit. 130, t. 11. 



f. 3, 4. 1822. 

 Venus crassatella, Blainville. 

 Venus Petagnse, Costa, Cat. Syst. 34. 1829. 

 Astarte undata, Gould, Invert. Mass. 80. 1841. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 779, t. 167, f. 12. 1855. 

 Astarte latisulca, Hanley. 

 Astarte Mortoni, Adams. 



Astarte fusca, Poli, Test. Utr. Sicil. 49, t. 15, f. 32, 33. 

 1791. 



Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 783, t. 167, f. 24. 1855. 

 Astarte incrassata, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. 38. 1836. 

 Astarte subsequilatera, Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 781, t. 

 167, f. 13. 1855. 



Northern Europe to Mediterranean ; 



New England, northwards. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Subgenus Gonilia, Stoliczka. 



Pal. Indica, 278. 1871. 



A. bipartita, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. 32, t. 3. 21. 1830. 



Mediterranean. 



Subgenus Goodallia, Turton. 



Concb. Ditb. 77. 1822. 



Parastarte, Conrad, Proc. Philad. Acad. 288. 1862. 



A. triquetra, Conrad, Proc. Philad. Acad. iii. 24, t. 15, 16. 1846. 



Tampa Pay, Fla. 

 A. triangularis, Montagu, Test. Brit. 99, t. 3, f. 5. 1803. 

 Sowerby, Thes. Conch, ii. 782, t. 167, f. 9. 1855. 

 Mactra minutissima, Montagu, Test. Brit. Suppl. 37. 1808. 

 Astarte minuta, Nyst. 



Astarte pusilla, Forbes, Report iEgean Invest. 144. 

 Cyclina undata, Conti. 



England to Mediterranean ; Canaries. 



Genus GOULDIA, C. B. Adams. 

 Panama Sbells, 275. 1851. 

 Thetis, C. B. Adams (not Sowerby), Proc. Bost. Soc. N 

 Hist. ii. 9. 1845. 

 G. Australis, Angas, Proc. Zool. Soc. 459. 1870. 



Port Jackson, N. S. Wales. 

 G. cerina, C. B. Adams, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. Hist. ii. 9. 1845. 



Jamaica. 

 G. dilecta, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 32. 1861. 



Kagosima-. 

 G. pastigiata, Gould, Bost. Proc. viii. 282. 1861. 



North Carolina. 

 G. Guadaloupensis, D'Orb. Moll. Cuba, ii. 289, t. 27, f. 24-26. 

 1853. 



West Indies. 

 G. Mactracea, Lindsley, Am. Jour. Science, 233. 1848. 

 Gould, Invert, Mass. Edit. ii. f. 442. 1870. 



New England ; South Carolina. 

 G. Martiniensis, D'Orb. Moll. Cuba, ii. 288, t. 27, f. 21-23. 1853. 



West Indies. 

 G. modesta, H. Adams, Zool. Proc. t. 19, f. 14. 1869. 



Gulf of Tunis. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



G. Pacifica, C. B. Adams, Panama Shells, 215. 1851. 

 H. & A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 115, f. 7, a. b. 



Panama; Mazatlan. 

 G. parva, C. B. Adams, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. ii. 9. 1845. 



Jamaica. 

 G. Pfeifferi, Philippi, Zeit. fiir Malak. 133. 1848. 



Cuba. 

 G. varians, Carpenter, Mazat. Cat. 83. 1857. 



Ilazatlan. 



Genus MIODON, Carpenter. 

 Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xiv. 424. 1864. 

 1. M. prolongatus, Carpenter, loc. cit. 



Straits of Fuca to Monterey, Gal. 



Genus CRASS ATELLA, Lamarck. 1 

 Prodr. Syst. 1799. 

 Ptychomya, Agassiz (fossil), Etnd. Crit. 3d liv. 1842. 

 Paphia, Roissy (not Lam. or Fabr.), Moll. vi. 346. 1805. 



C. Adeline, Tryon, Proc. A. N. S. 1872. 

 C. Antillarum, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 44. 1842. 

 Conch. Icon. sp. 8. 1843. 

 G. rostrata, Chenu 111. Conch. 



Isl. Margarita, ( IF. 2. ?) 

 C. aurora, Adams and Angas, Cool. Proc. 426, t. 37, f. 15. 1863. 



Tasmania. 

 C. Banksii, Adams and Angas, Zool. Proc. 427, t. 37, f. 16. 1863. 



Tasmania. 

 C. bellula, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 95. 1852. 



New Zealand, 

 C. castanea, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 42. 1842. 

 Conch. Icon. spec. 3. 1843. 



Australia. 

 C. compressa, Adams and Reeve, Yoy. Samarang, 82, t. 23, f. 10. 

 1850. 



Gorea. 



1 I think that a considerable reduction of species is necessary in this 

 genus ; but, unfortunately, I have not enough specimens at hand to make 

 satisfactory comparisons. The species appear to vary so much in form, 

 sculpture, and color, that identification, in many cases, is entirely arbi- 

 trary. 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



C. compta, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 95. 1852. 



China Sea. 

 C. concinna, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 95. 1852. 



China Sea. 

 C. Corbuloides, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 45. 1842. 

 Conch. Icon. sp. 9. 1848. 



Hab.f 

 C. corrugata, Adams and Reeve, Voy. Samarang, 82, t. 23, f. 7. 



1850. 



Soloo Islands. 

 C. Cumingii, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 90, 1. 16, f. 1. 1852. 



Moreton Bay, E. Australia. 

 C. decipiens, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 42. 1842. 

 Conch. Icon. sp. 4. 1843. 

 C. Kingicola, Reeve (not Lamarck), Conch. Syst. 63, t. 44, 

 f. 3. 1841. 



Australia. 



C. contraria, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 3277. 1790. 



Coast of Guinea; Canary Islands. 

 C. divaricata, Chemnitz, Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 18. 1843. 

 C. donacina, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 19. 1843. 



Australia. 

 C. Esquimalti, Baird, Zool. Proc. 70. 1863. 



Vancouver's Island. 

 C. gibbosa, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 56. 1832. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 1. 1843. 



W. Coast South America. 

 C. jubar, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 44. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 11. 



Australia. 

 C. Kingicola, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. v. 481. 1818. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 5. 1843. 



Australia. 

 C. ljevis, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 64. 1852. 



Laguayra. 

 C. lapidea, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 48. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 7. 



Philippines. 

 C. nana, Adams and Reeve, Voy. Samarang, 81, t. 23, f. 2. 1S50. 



Eastern Seas. 

 C. obesa, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 90, t. 10, f. 2. 1852. 



New Zealand. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 251 



C. obscura, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 94. 1852. 



China Sea. 

 C. ornata, Gray, Griffith's Cuvier, t. 22, f. 6. 1834. 

 Reeve, Zool. Proc. 46. 1842. 

 Conch. Icon. sp. 17. 1843. 



Hab. ? 

 C. pallida, Adams and Reeve, Voy. Samarang, 82, t. 23, f. 9- 

 1850. 



China. 

 C. picta, Adams and Reeve, Voy. Samarang, 82, t. 23, f. 6. 1850. 



Philippines. 

 C. pulchra, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 43. 1842. 

 Icon. sp. 16. 1843. 

 C. sulcata, Blainv. (not Lam.) Malac. t. 73, f. 4. 1825. 



Australia. 

 C. radiata, Sowerby, Tankerville Cat. A pp. 2. 1825. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 12. 1843. 



Singapore. 

 C. rostrata, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. v. 482. 1818. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 10. 1843. 



Ceylon. 

 C. speciosa, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 94. 1852. 



Bay of Campeachy. 

 C. subradiata, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. v. 482. 1818. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 15. 1843. 



South Seas. 

 C. sulcata, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. v. 481. 1818. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 6. 1843. 



C. triquetra, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 46. 1842. 

 Icon. sp. 14. 1843. 



C. truncata, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. 95. 1852. 



Australia. 



Hab.? 

 China Sea. 



C. undulata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 56. 1832. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. spec. 2. 1843. 



Puerto Portrero, Central America. 

 C. zic-zac, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 45. 1842. 

 Icon. sp. 13. 1843. 



Philippines. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus ACTINOEOLUS, Klein. 



Meth. Ostracol. 147. 1753. 



Cardiocardites, Blainv. Diet. Sc. Nat. xxxii. 326. 1824. 



Azaria, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. 1840. 



A. abyssicolus, Hinds, Voy. Sulphur, 65, t. 19, f. 3. 1844. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. Cardita, sp. 37. 1843. 



Sts. of Malacca. 



A. aculeatus, Poli, Test. Utr. Sicil. ii. 23, f. 23. 1795. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 17. 1843. 



Cardita squamosa, Cotiez. & Mich'. Gal. des Moll. ii. 159. 



Cardita nodulosa, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 44. 



Cardita squamifera, Deshayes, Mag. Zool. t. 10. 1831. 



Reeve, Icon. Cardita, sp. 14. 1843. 



Mediterra nean. 



A. ajar, Adanson, Hist. Nat. Senegal, t. 16, f. 2. 1757. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 23. 1843. 



Cardita lacunosa, Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 31. Zool. Proc. 



1823. 



Senegal. 



A. amabilis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 102, t. 7, f. 8, 9. 1852. 



New Zealand. 



A. antiquatus, Linnseus, Syst. Nat. xii. 1138. 1767. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 30. 1843. 



Cardita turgida, Lamarck, vii. 22. 1819. 



Cardita bicolor, Lamarck, vi. 23. 1819. 



Ceylon. 



A. Australts, Quoy (not Lam.), V03'. Astrol. ii. 4S0, t. 78, f. 



11-14. 1834. 



Cardita Quoyi, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 103. 1852. 



Cardita trideniata, Reeve (not Say.), Conch. Icon. sp. 22. 



1843. 



Australia, New Zealand. 



A. Belcheri, Deshaj-es, Zool. Proc. 101. 1852. 



Philippines. 

 A. bimaculatus, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 102, t. 17, f. 4, 5. 1852. 



New Zealand. 

 A. canaliculatus, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 40. 



Philippines. 

 A. Cardioides, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 49. 



Philippines. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 253 



A. castaneus, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 102, t. 17, f. 11. 1852. 



Australia. 

 A. compressus, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 4G. 



Valparaiso, Chili. 

 A. Conradi, Shuttleworth, Jour. Conch, v. 173. 1856. 



Cardita incrassata, Conrad (not Sowb.), Am. Mar. Conch. 

 39, t. 8, f. 2. 1831. 



Tampa Bay, Fla. 

 A. corbis, Philippi. Ennm. Moll. Sicil. 11, 48. 1844. 



Mediterranean, Canary Isles. 

 A. Cqrbiculjeformis, Deshayes, Cog. lie Reunion, 21. 



Mauritius. 

 A. crassus, Gray, Zool. Beechey's Yoyage, 152, t. 42, f. 4. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 34. 1843. 



Acapulco. 

 A. crenulatus, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 102. 1852. 



Borneo. 

 A. Cumingii, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 132, t. 87, f. 15. 1852. 



Borneo. 

 A. Cuviert, Broderip, Zool. Proc. 55. 1832. 

 Reeve, Icon. sp. 24. 1843. 



Central America. 

 A. difficilis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 103, t. 17, f. 16, 17. 1852. 



Neiv Zealand. 

 A. elegantulus, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 101, t. 17, f. 6, 7. 1852. 



Chinese Seas. 

 A. elongatus, Philippi, Archiv fur Naturg. 54. 1845. 



Pacific Ocean. 

 A. ferruginosus, Adams and Reeve, Yoy. Sainarang, 76, t. 21, f. 

 21. 1850. 



Philippines. 

 A. plabellum, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 47. 



Valparaiso. 

 A. flammeus, Michelin, Mag. Zool. t. 6. 1830. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 38. 1843. 



Hab. ? 

 A. gracilis, Shuttleworth, Jour, de Conch. 173. 1856. 



Porto Rico. 

 A. Gunnii, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 101. 1852. 



Van Dieman's Land. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



A. incrassatus, Sowerby, App. Tankerville Cat. 1825. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 11. 1843. 

 Gardita rubicunda, Menke, Moll. N. IIoll. 



Australia. 

 A. Jukesii, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 101, t. IT, f. 14. 1852. 



Australia. 

 A. Koreensis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 101. 1852. 



Gorea. 

 A. laticostatus, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 195. 1832. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 36. 1843. 

 Gardita angisulcata, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. 

 Icon. sp. 41. 

 Yar. Gardita tricolor, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 194. 1832. 



Central America. 

 A. marmoreus, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 12. 



Australia. 

 A. Malvin^g, Orbigny, Yoy. Am. Mer. 580, t. 84, f. 4, 6. 

 A. megastrophus, Gray. 



A. nttidus, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 27. 

 Gardita ovalis, Reeve, Ibid. 1843. Icon. sp. 28. 



Philippines. 

 A. Philippii, Tryon. 



Gardita Australis, Philippi (not Quoy), Abhandl. Naturf. 

 Ges. Halle, 21. 185S. 



Philippines. 

 A. Preissii, Menke, Moll. Nov. Holl. 38. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 39. 1843. 



Australia. 

 A. procerus, Gould, Bost. Proc. iii. 276. 



Rio Negro, Patagonia. 

 A. purpuratus, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 100, t. 17, f. 12, 13. 1852. 



New Zealand. 

 A. rostratus, Gmelin. 

 A. semen, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 43. 



Bolivia. 

 A. Sowerbyi, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 103. 1852. 



Swan River, W. Australia. 

 A. spurctjs, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 195. 1832. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 32. 1843. 



Peru. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



A. sulcatus, Brug. Ency. Meth. No. 3. 1789. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 35. 1843. 



Chama antiquata, Poli, Test. TJtr. Sicil. ii. t. 23, f. 12, 13. 



1795. 



Mediterranean. 



A. Tankervillii, Wood. Index Test. Suppl. 57. 1828. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 29. 1843. 



Chama Australis, Wood. Index Test. Suppl. 6. 1828. 



Australia. 



A. tegulatus, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 48. 



Valparaiso. 

 A. tumidus, Broderip, Zool. Proc. 56. 1832. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 26. 1843. 



A. varius, Brod. Zool. Proc. 56. 1832. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 25. 1843. 



Puerto Portrero, Isle Plata, Gallapagos. 



A. Thouarsii, D'Orbigny, Voy. Amer. Merid. 579, t. 84, f. 1-3. 



1846. 



Malouin Isles. 



A. Zelandicus, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 101. 1852. 



New Zealand. 



Genus CYC10CARDIA, Conrad. 



C. borealis, Conrad, Am. Mar. Conch. 39, t. 8, f. 1. 1831. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 33. 1843. 



Cardita vestita, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. t. 17, f. 10. 1852. 



Northern Coast United States. 



C Nov-Anglle, Morse, Rep. Peabody Acad. Science, 76. 1869. 



New England. 



C. ventricosus, Gould, Boston Proc. iii. 276. 1850. (= borealis. ?) 



PugeVs Sound. 



Genus PLETJROMERIS, Conrad. 

 Arn. Jour. Conch, iii. 12. 1867. 

 P. tridentatus, Say, Jour. Philad. Acad. v. 216. 1826. 



(Not of Reeve, Icon. Cardita, sp. 22 = C. Australis, 

 Quoy.) 



Northern Coast United States. 



Genus MYTILICARDIA, Blainville. 

 Diet. Sciences, Nat. xxxii. 326. 1824. 

 M. calyculata, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1138. 1767. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. Cardita, sp. 1. 1843. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Gardita sinuata, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. vi. 25. 1819. 



Mediterranean Sea. 

 M. crassicostata, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. vi. 24. 1819. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 7. 1843. 

 Gardita Tridacnoid.es, Menke, Moll. Nov. Holl. 



Australia, Philippines. 

 M. Cumingiana, Dunker, Zeit. Malak. 223. i860. 



Japan. 

 M. distorta, Reeve, Zool. Proc 1843. Icon. sp. 13. 



Bed Sea. 

 M. Essingtonensis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 100. 1852. 



Australia. 

 M. excavata, Desha} r es, Zool. Proc. 101, t. It, f. 1-3. 1852. 



Sydney, N. S. Wales. 

 M. excisa, Pkilippi, Zeit. fur Malak. 91. 1847. 



Sandwich Isles. 

 M. fabula, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 50. 



Isle of Alboran. 

 M. gibbosa, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 21. 



Eab. ? 

 M. leana, Dunker, Zeit. Mai. 223. I860. 



Japan. 

 M. muricata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 195. 1832. 

 Reeve, Conck. Icon. sp. 18. 1843. 



Crescent and Rap a Islands, Pacific Ocean. 

 M. pica, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 8. 



Philippines. 

 M. radula, Reeve, Zool.. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 2. 



Eab.? 

 M. rufescens, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. vii. 24. 1819. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. Cardita, sp. 19. 1843. 

 Gardita Senegalensis, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. 



Icon. sp. 16. 



Senegal. 



M. terettuscula, Philippi. 



M. umbilicata, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 100. 1852. 



Australia. 



M. variegata, Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. 407, t. 233, f. 6. 1789. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 3. 1843. 



Chama calyculata, Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. 217. 1817. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 257 



Cardita avicidina, Lamarck, Aniin. s. Vert. vi. 26. 1819. 

 Delessert, Illust. t. 11, f. 10. 



Australia, Indian and Chinese Seas. 



Subgenus Begttina, Bolten. 

 Mus. Bolt, 1798. 

 M. gubernaculum, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 9. 



Zanzibar. 

 M. semiorbiculata, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1138. 1767. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 10. 

 Cardita phrenetica, Lamarck. Anim. s. Yert. vi. 24. 1819. 



Philippines. 

 M. volucris, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. sp. 20. 



Hab.? 

 Subgenus Glaks, Miihlfeldt. 

 Entwurf, 68. 1811. 

 M. naviformis, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Icon. sp. 45. 



Valparaiso. 

 M. trapezia, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Edit. xii. 1138. 1767. 

 Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 15. 1843. 

 Chama muricata, Scacchi, Cat. 5. 



Cardita squamosa, Lamarck, Anim. s. Yert. vi. 23. 1819. 



Mediterranean. 

 Subgenus Thecalia, H. and A. Adams. 

 Genera of Becent Mollusca, ii. 489. 1857. 

 M. concamerata, Chemnitz, 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. Cardita, sp. 42. 1843. 



Cape of Good Hope. 

 M. macrotheoa, Adarns and Angas, Zool. Proc. 39. 1864. 



So. Australia. 

 Genus CARDITAMEKA, Conrad. 



Foss. Shells, 12. 1837. 



Lazaria, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. 1853. 



C. affinis, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 195. 1832. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. Cardita, sp. 6. 1843. 



Cardita Calif ornica, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. 100. 1852. 



Central America to Gidf of California. 



C. Floridana, Conrad, Fossil Shells, 12. 1837. 



Cardita gibbosa, Reeve, Zool. Proc. 1843. Conch. Icon. 



sp. 21. 



Hab.? 




258 PROCEEDINGS OP TDTE ACADEMY OF 



C. gracilis, Shuttleworth, Jour, de Conch, v. 173. 1856. 



Porto Rico. 



C. pectuncules, Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. 412. 1789. 



Reeve, Couch. Icon. sp. 4. 1843. 



Madagascar. 

 C. radtata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 195. 1832. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 5. 1843. 



E. Columbia, Panama. 



C. subquadrata. Carpenter, Ann. Mag. Nat. His. xv. 178. 1865. 



Sts. of Fuca to San Diego, Gal. 



CATALOGUE OF THE FAMILY SOLEMYIDiE. 

 BY GEORGE "W. TRYON, JR. 



Family SOLEMYIDIE, H. & A. Adams. 



Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 482. 1857. 

 Genus SOLEMYA, Lamarck. 



Hist. Nat. Anim. sans Vert. v. 488. 1818. 

 Solenomya, Menke, Syn. Meth. Edit. i. 1828. 

 Solenymya, Swaiuson, Man. Malacol. 366. 1840. 

 Stephanopus, Scacchi, Osserv. Zool. 5. 1833. 



1. S. Australis, Lamarck, Anim. s. Vert. v. 489. 1818. 



Blainville, Malacol, t. 79, f. 1. 1825. 



So. Australia. 



2. S. borealis, Totten, Am. Jour. Sci. xxvi. 366, f. 1. 1834. 



S. velum, Conrad (not Say), Am. Mar. Conch, t. 66, f. 16. 



1831. 



Northern United States. 



3. S. pusilla, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. viii. 27. 1861. 



Hakodadi. 



4. S. togata, Poli, Test. TJtr. Sicil. ii. 42, t. 15, f. 20. 1795. 



S. Mediterranean Lamarck, Anam. s. Vert. v. 489. 1818. 



Mediterranea,n. 



5. valviilus, Carpenter, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xiii. 311. 1864. 



Gape St. Lucas. 



6. S. velum, Say, Jour. Philad. Acad. ii. 317. 1822. 



Gould, Invert. Mass. 2d Edit. 48 f. 371. 



Northern United States. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



NOTES ON THE GENUS POLORTHUS, Gabb. 

 BY WILLIAM M. GABB. 



In 1834, Dr. S. G. Morton, in Ms " Synopsis of the Organic 

 Remains of the Cretaceous Group of the United States," described 

 a species under the name of Teredo tibialis; mentioning a former 

 edition of the same work, when he says he " referred this species 

 to T.antenautse, Sby." (Min.Conch., vol. i. p. 231, pi. 102). Sow- 

 erby's shell is from the London clay, and Morton was correct in 

 separating the American species, which is Cretaceous. But while 

 correcting one error he fell into two others, not less grave. He 

 included all of the terediform tubes found in New Jersey under 

 the one name, and figured as the type of the species a shell which 

 1 believe is not only not a Teredo, but is Cephalopod. There 

 are at least two species mentioned by Morton (Srjn. Cret., p. 69) ; 

 and for the one figured and described, the specific name must be 

 retained. For the other I proposed the name of T. irregularis. 

 in 1860 {Jour. Philad. Acad., 2d ser. vol. iv. p. 393, pi. 68, fig. 19). 



In 1861, while examining Dr. Morton's specimens, I was struck 

 by some peculiarities in the tubes, which, on further study, in- 

 duced me to propose the above generic name, and suggest the 

 relationship of the genus to Vermetus. Since then the matter 

 seems to have been forgotten, until recently my friend, Dr. 

 Stoliczka, in his able work on the Fossils of India (Pal. Indica, 

 vol. iii. p. 14), quotes the name doubtfully and at second hand for 

 the Smithsonian Check List, and in the Pholadidse. This last 

 fact has determined me to call attention to the genus in a more 

 explicit manner than the original imperfect notice, in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy, 1861, p. 366. 



P. tibialis, Morton, is the species for which the name was first 

 proposed. At the time I described the genus, I was in receipt of 

 a fine series of specimens of my Gastrochsena Americana, from 

 the " Ripley Group" of Tennessee, sent me by Prof. Safford, the 

 State Geologist, and I found that the two forms were congeneric, 

 although I have never yet seen the apex of the latter species. 



The generic characters are as follows : Shell tubular, growing 

 singly or in clusters, nearly straight. Interior divided into cham- 

 bers by two entirely different sets of septa. In the young state, 




2G0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the septa are cup-shaped, as in Orthoceras, but, unlike that genus, 

 the}^ are not perforated by a small siphonal opening. Instead, 

 the middle of each septum is prolonged into a tapering tube with 

 an elliptical cross section, tbe apex of which tube enters the base 

 and nearly, or completely, fills the interior of its predecessor. 

 Extreme apex unknown. In the space immediately succeeding 

 tbe last septum, there is a saddle-shaped, continuous muscular (?) 

 scar, which rises on the sides corresponding with the broad part 

 of the funnel-like siphonal tubes, and is deeply depressed on the 

 sides corresponding with the ends of the ellipse. Beyond this 

 stage, the shell continues as a nearly straight tube, increasing 

 very slowly in diameter and, at irregular intervals, is hermetically 

 closed by convex septa, having their convex face reversed ; that 

 is to say, placed towards the broader, or newer portion of the 

 tube. The structure is microscopically prismatic, the prisms being 

 placed transversely as in Inoceramus. Both the walls and the 

 septa are made up of numerous layers of shell substance, no struc- 

 tural difference existing between the several parts. 



P. tibialis grows in masses of tubes bearing a strong superficial 

 resemblance to Teredo, which resemblance misled Dr. Morton m 

 his generic reference. But, even apart from its internal structure, 

 the analogy fails, since it never occurs perforating wood or other 

 hard substances. The spaces between the shells are filled only 

 with sand. This free mode of growth, and my not being ac- 

 quainted at the time with the peculiar characters of the apical 

 portion, induced me to refer my genus to the Vermetidse on ac- 

 count of the septa in the larger portions of the tube; a character 

 not unlike that of Vermetus and Caecum. Latterly, through the 

 kindness of my friend, Dr. Joseph Leidy, I have been enabled to 

 study better specimens than any heretofore examined, and thus 

 discovered the anomalous character of the young shell. 



P. Americanus seems to be solitary in its habits ; at least, no 

 masses of this species have ever been obtained. In external form 

 it is not unlike the tube of Gastrochsena, and I thus described it 

 at first. The Tennessee specimens, preserved in a soft matrix, 

 show that internally it has the same imperforate septa, convex 

 towards the broader end of the tube, and placed at irregular dis- 

 tances. 



The structure of the 3 r oung shell places this genus, as the t} T pe 

 of a new family, Polorthid^e, among the Cephalopods, and it only 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 261 



remains to determine what are its nearest relations. Its simple- 

 edged septa confine it to the group, of which the modern Nautilus 

 may be taken as a t} T pe. But the complex nature of its septa has 

 no analogy among the modern genera, even geologically speaking. 

 AVe must look for its relations among the palaeozoic forms, such as 

 Endoceras, Aciinoceras, and more especially Beatricea. In fact, 

 it seems in some respects to be intermediate between the last, as 

 described by Hyatt 1 and the two former ; and again to connect 

 both groups with the Orthoceridse proper. In Orthoceras we have 

 direct communication from one chamber to the next. In Endo- 

 ceras, Actinoceras, and the allied genera, the position of the siphon 

 is occupied by a shelly tube which seems to have allowed no such 

 communication beyond its own walls. In Beatricea the central 

 column is described as consisting of a chain of small hollow 

 chambers, not continuous either with each other or with the en- 

 circling chambers. In Polorthus, unlike Orthoceras, the tubes 

 are not membranous, but shelly. They can be compared in their 

 enveloping character to the column of Beatricea, of which Hyatt 

 says, "the central chambers are imperforate, generally deeply 

 concave, and set upon one another like a pile of Chinese teacups." 

 By elongating these "teacups" into a series of laterally com- 

 pressed cones, we have the column of Polorthus, with the differ- 

 ence that in the latter each cone is soldered to, or more properly, 

 is a continuation of one of the outer septa. The nature of the 

 matrix is such that I have not been able to demonstrate, bej^ond 

 a doubt, the character of the apex of these cones, but I believe it 

 to have been perforated by a minute slit ; a fact which would con- 

 nect Beatricea with Endoceras. On the other hand, while the 

 base of each cone, where it leaves the transverse septum, is appa- 

 rently closed completely by the next cone fitting tightly into it; 

 there is at least a rudimentary, if not a real connection between 

 the outer chamber and the interior of the column, thus showing a 

 nearer connection between Polorthus and Orthoceras than between 

 the latter and the other two quoted genera. 



The muscular scar visible on the casts of the interior just above 

 the last of the septa is not without its analogy. I have found 

 such impressions in all the modern species of Nautilus, but more 

 especially in N. jjompilius, 2 where it consists of two broad scars 



1 Amer. Jour. Sci., 1865, p. 261. 



2 See Waagen, Ueber die Ansatzstelle der Haftniuskeln beim Nautilus 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



like those of an oyster, connected by a faint polished line, marking 

 the mantle margin. 



Having pointed out what I believe to be the relations of this 

 remarkable fossil, it yet remains for me to remark on the anoma- 

 lous circumstances connected with the manner of growth of the 

 shell in its later staq-es. 



After growing to a length of nearly an inch, the animals (at 

 least of P. tibialis) seem to have congregated into colonies. 

 Thenceforward the septate character, above described, ceases. 

 The tube increases gradually in diameter as it grows in length, 

 and at distances varying without any determinate system, from a 

 quarter of an inch to two inches apart, the tube is hermetically 

 closed bj r arched septa, with their convex faces towards the mouth 

 of the tube ; or in a reversed position to that of the primary 

 series. The tube consequently could have been of no further use 

 as a float, like that of the other chambered cephalopods, and 

 would have been really disadvantageous to its occupant, was it 

 not permanently anchored as we see it actualby was. The colonies 

 must consequently have resembled a highly magnified view of a 

 bryozoon or a coral. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8. 



Fig. 1. View of a mass of P. tibialis, natural size. 



" 2. One tube, slightly magnified : , muscular scar ; b, secondary septa. 



" 3. An unusually large tube, abnormally bent, natural size: a, one of 

 the secondary septa. 



" 4. Magnified view of end of a tube : a, surface markings of the species 

 (P. tibialis) ; 5, end view of muscular scar on the cast ; c, in- 

 ternal cast of the last chamber and part of the mould of the cen- 

 tral tube. 



" 5. Side view of the end of another specimen : a, a, parts of the shell ; 

 b, b', muscular scar, b seems to correspond with the broad mus- 

 cle of Nautilus ; c, c, primary septa ; d, side view corresponding 

 with c, fig. 4. 



" 6. Top view of a secondary septum broken through at a. 



" 7. End view of one of the primary septa. 



" 8. P. Americanus, natural size. 



und der Ammoniden ; PalaxraUgraphica. Band 17,1870, p. 185, pi. 39 

 and 40. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 2G3 



NOTICE OF A COLLECTION OF CRETACEOUS FOSSILS FROM CHIHUAHUA, 



MEXICO. 



BY WILLIAM M. GABB. 



A small collection of Cretaceous fossils has recently been sub- 

 mitted to me for examination by my friend, Dr. J. P. Kimball, 

 who collected tbem near the centre of the State of Chihuahua, at 

 a place called Nugal, in the midst of a silver mining region. In 

 fact, the doctor represents the argentiferous veins as lying in the 

 cretaceous limestone. 1 



The fossils are of the more intei'est, since they are another link 

 in the chain of evidence, to prove an extension of the cretaceous 

 sea completely across Northern Mexico. 2 They are of the same 

 group, from which I have already described one series, collected 

 by my old friend and colleague, Aug. Remond, at Arivechi in 

 Sonora ; and the two localities are only separated by the crest of 

 the Sierra Madre, which probably showed its summits as a string 

 of islands in the ancient ocean. 



Collected incidentally during a journey made for an entirely 

 different purpose, and in a region infested by Apaches, it is not 

 strange that the series is meagre. Fortunately, it is full enough 

 to give us an undoubted key to the exact member of the forma- 

 tion. 



The following is a list of the species identified. In addition to 

 these, there is a favositiform coral, and one or two other forms 

 too imperfect for recognition. 



Hippurites Texanus, Roem. 

 Ostrea bella, Conrad. 

 Exogyra costata, Say. 

 E. arietina, Roem. 

 Neithea Texana, Roem. sp. 

 N. occidentalis, Conrad. 

 Lima Wacoensis, Roem. 

 L. Kimballi, Gabb, n. s. 

 Inoceramus, two species, indet. 



1 See Silliman's Journal, Nov. 1869, p. 378. 



2 Palaeontology of California, vol. ii. p. 257 et seq, 




2G4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Globiconcha? sp. indet. 

 Pleurotoma Pedernalis ? Roem. sp. 

 (Fusus id. Roem.) 



A shell agreeing perfectly with Roemer's figure in Kreid. Texas, 

 in size, form, and sculpture; but on which the lines of growth 

 distinctly indicate the sinus of Pleurotoma. 



Ammonites Guadalupre, Roem. 



Ammonites Ouadalupce, Roem., pi. 9. fig. 1, and pi. 10, figs. 1, la. 

 Kreidebildungen von Texas, p. 32, pi. 2, fig. 1, la, lb. 



Roemer's figure represents a larger speeimen than the one be- 

 fore me, and one which exhibits only the more mature form of the 

 shell. The present fine example is 4.*! inches in its greater dia- 

 meter, and gives us some additional characters. It wants almost 

 entirely the dorsal ornamentation figured in Kreid. Texas ; the 

 dorsum being broad, nearly flat, and rounded on the margin. The 

 umbilical row of nodes is well developed, but the outer lateral row 

 is barely discernible ; their place being occupied, on the older 

 parts or the shell by faint undulations, which show a tendency to 

 form a series of bifurcate ribs extending outward from the above- 

 mentioned nodes. In the still younger stage, as exhibited by the 

 inner whorls, the shell is flattened discoiclal, very similar to A. 

 placenta or A. Pedernalis, without tubercles, or with no more 

 than are often shown by these species. The dorsum is then very 

 compressed laterally, and is truncated and bi-carinate, so that 

 young specimens of this shell, except for the wider umbilicus, 

 could readily be mistaken for either of the above, but more espe- 

 cially the latter species, which also occurs in the same rocks. 1 



Roemer's figure of the septum seems to have been drawn from 

 a weathered specimen. The differences between the details of his 

 lobes and mine are not more than I have frequently observed in 

 individuals of other species. 



Lima Kimballi, Gabb, n. s., pi. 11, fig. 1. 



This fine large species is represented by but a single mutilated 

 specimen, of which, while much of the outline is destroyed, the 

 surface is pretty well preserved, and is so characteristic that I 

 have ventured to name it. 



It is equivalve, compressed, very oblique, elongated, posterior 



See Pal. California, vol. ii. p. 258, pi. 35, figs. 1, la. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



side prominent and broadly rounded ; ears unknown. Surface 

 marked by about twelve or thirteen prominent, nearly equal ribs, 

 rounded, or subangular, with broad, regularly concave interspaces, 

 wider than the ribs. Whole surface crossed by very fine lines of 

 growth. 



Length, about three inches ; greatest width 2.2 in., thickness 

 through both valves, .5 in. 



Besides the mollusca, Dr. Jos. Leidy has decided a single shark 

 tooth in the collection to belong to the common Galeocerdo fal- 

 catus of the chalk, found in England as well as America. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



Plate 9, fig. 1. Ammonites Guadalupse, side view. 

 " 10," 1. Id. front view, showing the change of the dorsum. Fig. let. 



Septum. 

 " 11, " 1. Lima Kimballi. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



November 5. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" Description of some new genera of Mollusca." By Wm. M. 

 Gabb. 



Mr. Joseph Willcox stated that having felt much interest in 

 the subject of corundum, he had frequently visited the localities 

 of that mineral in Pennsylvania ; and that during last April he 

 visited many corundum localities in Lowns Co. Ga., and in Clay 

 and Macon Counties in North Carolina. Mr. Willcox exhibited 

 a specimen lately obtained from near Unionville, Pa., the central 

 portion of which was corundum surrounded by chlorite. The ex- 

 terior part of the corundum was so mixed with chlorite, that there 

 appeared to be an alteration of one of the substances into the 

 other. Mr. Willcox said he had frequentby found in several locali- 

 ties in North Carolina, round specimens of chlorite, the central 

 portions of which were corundum, which corresponded in shape to 

 the surrounding mass of chlorite. These nodules of corundum 

 were from one-quarter inch in size to three inches. In some of the 

 specimens the lines were well defined between the corundum and 

 chlorite, while in others these two substances were so mixed as to 

 appear to pass into each other b} r insensible degrees. 



Mr. Willcox said he had never seen a specimen of this character 

 from any corundum localitj 7 in Pennsylvania before. Mr. Willcox 

 also exhibited specimens of crystals of corundum from Laurens 

 District in South Carolina ; one of which was partly altered into 

 margarite, and another was wholly converted into the latter sub- 

 stance. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, referring to the cylindrical production 

 presented by Prof. Leidy, said he thought he could confirm Prof. 

 Leidy's suspicion that it was not of vegetable origin, but' was 

 wholly mineral. There was not only the peculiarity in the appa- 

 rent concentric laj'ers, referred to by Prof. Leidy, but also an 

 entire absence of any trace of medullary rays which he thought 

 never wholly obsolete in woody petrifactions. But beyond this 

 the diameter of what appeared to have been the pith cavity was 

 far bej'ond what usuall} T occurred in Dicotyledonous structures of 

 the age which this, by the number of circles, ought to be. Although 

 lie believed the suggestion had not been made before, he had reason 

 to believe that the pith cavity decreased in diameter with the age 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 267 



of the wood. Thus in the case of the strong shoots which in 

 this country formed the ultimate trunk of the Paulownia impe- 

 rialism the pith occupied a space in the centre of from one-quarter 

 to three-quarters of an inch in diameter according to the strength 

 of this shoot; but in some trees about twenty-five years old, he 

 had seen cut down, the pith cavity was nearly obliterated. It was 

 scarcely credible that any dicotyledonous shoot of one year's 

 growth ever had a pith as thick as this. 



But besides these incongruities he had been able to trace the 

 origin of similar formations. In central New York, he had seen 

 on a farm a large number of hollow cylindrical substances from 

 one-quarter to one inch or more in diameter which appeared like 

 pieces of large clay pipe stems. There were many successive cir- 

 cular layers as in this specimen. Informed by the farmer that 

 they came in the muck obtained from a swamp near by, he examined 

 the spot, and found in many instances the central portion was 

 occupied by decaying wood and roots. In time these rotted com- 

 pletely away, and left the structure a hollow tube. The mineral 

 substance around this woody matter appeared to be carbonate of 

 lime, and as the swamp was very wet. in winter, and partly dry in 

 summer, he supposed the varying temperature of the water at dif- 

 ferent seasons of the year, or perhaps actual periodical dryness, 

 would give the appearance of annual rings to the deposit, which 

 formed around the woody core. 



He would suggest that probably this piece had been formed in a 

 similar manner, and that after the woody centre which had formed 

 the nucleus of the cylindrical mass had decaj^ed and disappeared 

 through the ends, the crystallized silicious matter had formed in 

 its place. 



Notice of Donation of Fossils, etc., from Wyoming. Prof. Leidy 

 directed attention to the specimens of fossils and other specimens 

 from Wyoming Territory, presented this evening. 



The fine specimen consisting of a nearly complete dorsal shell 

 of a Trionyx, was found on the buttes of Dry Creek, about ten 

 miles from Fort Bridger. It was discovered by Maj. R. S. La 

 Motte, commander of the fort, and was kindly presented by him 

 to the Academy. The shell is about 16^ inches long and nearly 

 as broad. Before comparing it with the specimen of Trionyx gut- 

 tatus it was supposed to be the same, but certain characters ap- 

 pear to indicate it as a distinct species, which may be named Trio- 

 nyx uintaensis. The fore and back parts of the carapace are trun- 

 cated as in the existing T. muticus. The back truncation is slightly 

 sinuous, and extends the width of the last two pairs of costal 

 plates. In T. guttatus the corresponding border is convex and 

 exhibits a deep median and two deep lateral sinuses. The speci- 

 men possesses only six pairs of vertebral plates. 



Of the other fossils a number pertain to a large land tortoise, 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



previously described under the name of Testudo Corsoni. There 

 are two specimens consisting of nearly complete ventral shields, 

 broken into many species. One of these was found at Grizzly 

 Buttes and presented by Dr. Corson; the other was found at Dry 

 Creek, by Mrs. Anna Carter, the wife of Dr. Carter, and was pre- 

 sented by her to the Academy. The specimens exhibit some va- 

 riation in conformation though they are supposed to pertain to the 

 same species. The anterior lobe of the shield has the episternals 

 much prolonged and truncated. The posterior lobe at the ex- 

 tremity presents a wide and deep angular notch. The surface of 

 the shield posteriorly is deeply concave. The length of the plas- 

 tron is about two feet. 



A third specimen of a ventral shield less perfect than the others, 

 has associated with it the median portion of a dorsal shield or 

 carapace. The specimens were found by Dr. Corson on Grizzly 

 Butte. These would appear to indicate that the specimens for- 

 merly described and supposed to pertain to a large En^s, for 

 which the name of E. Carteri was proposed, really belong to the 

 same animal. The error was committed on account of the large 

 costal capitula, which accord in their proportions with those of 

 living terapenes. 



Among other specimens presented are some large cylindrical 

 masses of agate, obtained from the buttes in the vicinity of Carter 

 Station on the Union Pacific R. R. They simulate, in their form 

 and concentric structure, fossil wood, which they however appear 

 not to be, but are rather of the character of siliceous concretions. 

 Some of them contain an axis of clear white chalcedony, and others 

 are occupied along a central cavity by large yellow c^stals of 

 calcite. 



November 12. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 

 The death of Maj. Gen. Geo. G. Meade, U.S.A., was announced. 



November 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



November 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 

 The following gentlemen were elected members: 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



C. P. Sinnickson, C. P. Krauth, Joseph Hazard, Francis Garden 

 Smyth, M.D., John J. Thompson, J. Euen Loughlin, M.D., Thos. 

 M. Chatard, Geo. A. Koenig, Gideon E. Moore, Ph.D. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



J. W. Powell, of Washington, D. C, Capt. C. M. Scammon, of 

 San Francisco, Cal. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTION OF SOME NEW GENERA OF MOLLUSCA. 

 BY WILLIAM M. GABB. 



The following diagnoses of new genera are published in advance 

 of a more extended paper on West Indian mollusca, now in process 

 of preparation. The amount of material embodied in that paper is 

 so great, that circumstances will not permit me to illustrate the nu- 

 merous new species, and I avail myself of the present means of 

 explaining, by figures, the generic descriptions, which are not al- 

 ways clearly intelligible from verbal descriptions. 



PTEROPODA. 



Fam. LIMACINID^. 

 Planorbella, Gabb, pi. 11, fig. 2. 



Shell minute, vitreous, sinistral, apex sunken as in Planorbis. 



This genus, from its sinistral character, is evidently allied to 

 Limacina, from which its planorbiform mode of growth distinctly 

 separates it. The type P. imitans, were it dextral, might be mis- 

 taken for a very young specimen of Planorbis trivolvus, so nearly 

 does it copy the form of that shell. 



GASTEROPODA. 



MURICID.E. 

 Metulella, Gabb, pi. 11, fig. 3. 



Shell fusiform, canal more or less produced ; inner lip covered 

 with a thickened plate, continuous posteriorly with the outer lip. 

 Interior of both inner and outer lips strongly denticulated or 

 transversely striated. Surface cancellated or costate. 



This genus is more distinctly fusiform than Metida, and has the 

 additional character that the inner lip is covered throughout its 

 length by a series of prominent denticles, not necessarily corre- 

 sponding with the covered-up surface ribs. 



Type M. fusiformis. 



TURRID.E. 

 Glyphostoma, Gabb, pi. 11. fig. 4. 



Shell like Defrancia, but with the inner lip strongly cranulated 

 or transversely rugose. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 971 



This genus has the same relation to Defrancia that Metulella 

 bears to Metula. The inner lip of G. dentifera, the only known 

 species, is thickened, and is crossed by a number of prominences, 

 intermediate in character between teeth and transverse folds. At 

 the same time, they are wholly unlike the one fold of B or soma, or 

 the two or three of Cordiera. A better comparison would be with 

 the teeth of Cyprsea. 



BUCCINIDiE. 

 Ectracheliza, Gabb, pi. 9. fig. 2. 



Shell acuminately oblong, spire elevated (always truncated in the 

 only species known). Surface compressed near the suture. Inner 

 lip encrusted ; columella sinuous, short ; outer lip produced in 

 advance. This genus seems to be allied in many of its characters 

 to Cominella and Truncaria. Like them, it is compressed ad- 

 joining the suture. It shows no trace of umbilicus, as seen in 

 most of the Buccinidre, but its most distinctive character is in 

 its obliquely sub-truncated columalla, which does not reach to 

 the anterior end of the shell. It differs from Truncaria in having 

 no fold on the columella and in the outer lip not being emarginate 

 posteriorly. In E. truncata, the apex is truncated at. all ages, 

 shells of less than half an inch long having lost several of their 

 apical whorls, and it is rare to find more than two entire volutions 

 in any specimen. 



OLIVID.ffi. 

 Plochel^a, Gabb, pi. 11, fig. 5. 



Shell olive shaped, suture nearly obsolete, as in Ancillaria ; 

 aperture linear, deeply and obliquely notched at the base, as in 

 Dibaphus. Outer lip thickened internally, in the middle ; inner 

 lip incrusted and having several transverse folds, of which the 

 upper are the smallest ; columnella strongly recurved at the base. 



From its form and general appearance, I am inclined to consider 

 this genus as belonging to the Olividae, although its details of 

 character are strikingly like that of Dibaphus. It seems to form, 

 in a manner, a connecting link between the true Olives and the ' 

 genus Monoptygma Lea (not of Adams, Sowerly, etc.) The 

 folds are placed in a reverse order to those of Milra. 



I have before me specimens of Dibaphus edentulus and Mauritia 

 Barclayi, the typical species of their respective genera. There is 

 no possible room for doubt that D. edentulus is at least sometimes 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



supplied with mitra-like folds. My specimen has seven or eight, 

 well developed. Consequently Mauritia is synonymous with Diba- 

 phics ; and it seems to me that the genus should be placed l'ather 

 with the Mitres than with the Cones. The differences between the 

 present genus and Dibaphus are small, and it is possible that the 

 two should be placed side by side, although I strongly suspect 

 that the resemblances are those of imitation rather than of true 

 relationship. 



Type P. crassilabra. 



ETJLIMID.E. 

 Iopsis, Gabb, pi. 11. fig. 6. 



Shell eulimoid, polished, spire elevated, suture nearly obsolete, 

 apex dextral ; no umbilicus ; columella slightly twisted and pro- 

 duced into a short lip-like canal, not emarginated. 



The ivory-like structure, obsolete suture, and whole general ap- 

 pearance of this little shell prove its close relationship to Uulima, 

 while its faintly twisted columella, extended to such a degree as 

 to produce a short though not notched canal, distinguishes it from 

 the other genera of the family. It resembles in form a miniature 

 Io, from which circumstance the name is derived. I have noticed 

 in some species of true Eulima a slight tendency to expansion of 

 the lip in advance, on the columella!' margin. 



I. fusiformis. 



STROMAIDiE. 

 Orthatjlax, Gabb, pi. 9, figs. 3, 4. 



Shell rounded fusiform, canal moderate, straight and regularly 

 tapering; adult shell enveloped over the whole spire by an exten- 

 sion of the inner lip ; posterior canal fissure like, formed by the 

 continued edge of the outer lip and running directly to the apex. 

 Outer lip apparently sharp and simple ; anterior notch oblique 

 and broad. 



The discovery of this genus fills an important break in the Ros- 

 tellarias, uniting the true genus Rostellaria, with Conrad's fossil 

 from Calyptraphorus. Unlike both of these genera the canal is not 

 * styliform, but robust and comparatively short, and its terminal 

 notch is formed by an almost rectangular truncation of the anterior 

 part of the outer lip. Like Rostellaria it has a straight posterior 

 canal, prolonged, however, further than is common in that genus. 

 The canal is similar in structure to that of Calyptraphorus, being 

 formed by a squamose plate, but in the latter genus it curves over 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 273 



backwards, behind the spire, which it ascends to about half its 

 height, and then bends down to near the suture of the body whorl. 

 Unlike the first, and like the second, of its congeners, it has the 

 whole spire enveloped in a plate, which might more probably be 

 described as a posterior extension of the body whorl, carrying 

 the suture to the extreme apex. The lines of growth ran from the 

 top of the spire to the anterior end of the shell. It carries none of 

 the tubercles seen in Calyptraphorus and Tessarolax, and seems, 

 unlike most of the other genera of the family, to have had a simple 

 outer lip, neither thickened, digitate, nor notched. 



0. inornatus. 

 Dolophanes, Gabb, pi. 11, fig. 7. 



Shell elongate oval, spire elevated; with a minute, imperforate 

 umbilicus ; aperture semi-oval, inner lip acute, sinuous ; anterior 

 end of the aperture terminating in a short, not emarginate canal. 



The first impression produced on looking at this little shell, is 



that it is probably a Melania. It is however undoubtedly marine, 



and it has a grouping of characters which ally it so closely to 



Struthiolaria, that I am convinced that it is a nearly related 



genus. Its spire is very like that of many of the species of the 



Strombidse, and, in the details of its mouth, it differs only from 



Struthiolaria in having a thinly encrusted inner lip, an acute outer 



lip and an obsolete umbilicus, instead of the thickened margins 



and no umbilicus of that genus. 



D. melanoides. 



ACT2E0NID.E. 



Act^onidea, Gabb, pi. 11, fig. 8, 8 a. 



Shell oval, elongate ; aperture narrow, outer lip simple ; colu- 

 mella slightly encrusted, bearing one large transverse fold in the 

 middle and truncated in advance. Ornamented by revolving ribs. 



This genus is an Actdeon except that it has a single large fold on 

 the middle of the inner lip, and the columella is truncated as in 

 Achatina. 



A. oryza, Gabb. 



BULLID.E. 

 Cylichnella, Gabb, pi. 10, fig. 2. 



Shell sub-cylindrical, spire sunken ; mouth narrow behind, 

 widened or advance ; columella with two folds. 



This genus has the external form of Cylichna, but it has two 

 distinct folds. The upper one is sharp and prominent like that of 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Actseon, while the lower is more oblique and winds around the 

 columella more like that of Cylichna. 



C. bidentata. d'Orb. 



Bulla bidentata, d'Orb. La Sagra's Cuba, pi. fig. 13, 16. 



Utriculus bidentatus, Cheinn. Mar. Conch., vol. 1, p. 388. 



ACEPHALA. 



CORBULID.E. 



BoTnROCORBPLA, Gabb, pi. 10, fig. 3, 3 a. 



Shell like Corbula in every respect, except that it has a deep 

 lunular pit under the beaks penetrating and almost passing through 

 the hinge plate. 



I have carefully examined almost all of the living and many 

 fossil species of Corbula, and can find in none the slightest trace 

 or rudiment of a lnnuli ; while this shell has it deeper than I have 

 even seen in any other form, except in Here of the Lucinus. 



B. viminca, Guppy, sp. 



Corbula viminca, Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., v. 22, p. 293, 

 pi. 18, fig. 11. 



ANATINID.E. 



Ne.eromya, Gabb, pi. 10, fig. 4, 4 a, 4 b. 



Shell thin, translucent, in shape approaching Pholadomya, ends 

 closed ; hinge with a prominent tooth in the right valve, articu- 

 lating behind a smaller similar one in the left valve; an anterior 

 and posterior lateral tooth in each valve. Mantle margin without 

 sinus. 



This genus, in its thin character and minute hinges, is elosety 

 allied to Pholadomya, Thetis, and Nesera, but differs from all in 

 details of the hinge. Neeera has no cardinal tooth, but, in its place, 

 a cartilage pit in each valve. It has a single posterior tooth, 

 while this genus has the anterior equally well developed. In 

 having corresponding teeth in both valves, it differs from Thetis, 

 while its well specialized hinge and its closed ends distinguish it 

 from Pholadomya. 



JV. quadrata, Gabb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



December 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



Joseph Willcox made the following remarks about some glacial 

 scorings lately observed by him in St. Lawrence County, N. Y. 

 Between the village of Rossie and Morristown, on the St. Lawrence 

 River, a distance of eighteen miles, the country is generally a level 

 plateau. The hard potsdam sandstone, alternating with calci- 

 ferous sandstone, underlies a soil so thin that in many fields the 

 use of the plow is impracticable; and fence posts are rarely placed 

 in the ground. 



Over this territory rounded boulders of granite are scattered 

 in great profusion ; though no outcrop of this rock is visible for 

 many miles. The sandstone is frequently exposed to view to the 

 extent of many yards, and on its surface the glacial marks made 

 by the boulders of granite during their passage are exhibited 

 in great perfection. An examination made with a pocket compass 

 applied in three places at intervals of several miles determined 

 the course as N. N. East w T ith little variation. No glacial marks 

 w r ere observed on the calciferous sandstone, as this rock is 

 disintegrated with too much facility to retain impressions of this 

 character for a long period of time. 



For a distance of thirty miles north of the St. Lawrence, between 

 that river and Rideau Lake, the country is level and characterized 

 by the absence of streams of w r ater. The only rocks observed in 

 position were the calciferous sandstone and limestone. Though 

 rounded boulders of granite w r ere abundant, none of the rocks 

 were sufficiently durable to retain the glacial marks. On the north 

 shore of Rideau Lake, in Burgess, is the remarkable locality for 

 apatite (phosphate of lime). 



This mineral is found in the Laurentian rocks ; generally in 

 gneis, but occasionally in limestone. It is nearly always associated 

 with black mica (biotite). About 100 tons per week of apatite 

 are mined, which is all shipped to Europe. 



December 5. 



meeting of the conchological section. 



Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, Director, in the chair. 



A communication was read from Hon. J. A. Lapham, of 

 Milwaukee, Wis., dated November 26, and accompanied by a 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



drawing of a very large specimen of Busy con perversum, measur- 

 ing 12.5 inches in length. This shell was found in connection with 

 ancient (Mound-Builder's) relics in excavating the street grades in 

 the city of Milwaukee. A similar shell was obtained some years 

 ago at Fond du Lac. The species is living on the Florida coast. 

 A letter was read from the Chicago Academy of Sciences, dated 

 November 30, acknowledging receipt of several hundred named 

 species of shells presented to that Institution by the Conchological 

 Section. 



The Conservator's Annual Report was read. (See Reports of 

 Officers and Committees of the Academ}-.) 



The officers for the ensuing year were then elected. 



Director . . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.I). 

 Vice-Director . . . Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Recorder . . . S. R. Roberts. 



Treasurer . . . W. L. Mactier. 

 Secretary . . . Rev. E. R. Beadle. 



Conservator . . E. J. Nolan, M.D. 



December 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



Jos. Willcox made the following: remarks : 



& 



Having lately visited many mineral localities in Canada, I 

 desire to place them on record, as many of them are not mentioned 

 either in the Geological Report of Canada, or in Dana's Mineralogy. 

 I was accompanied by Mr. Charles D. Nims, of Philadelphia, 

 Jefferson County, New York, who has frequently visited Canada 

 for the purpose of procuring mineral specimens. 



At the Falls of Ottawa River at Grand Calumet Island. Black 

 mica (phlogopite), pyroxene, hornblende, serpentine, tremolite. 



The following localities are all in the Province of Ontario: 



At Arnprior. Calcite (dog tooth spar). 



Near Packenham. Hornblende. 



In Bathurst. Pyroxene, scapolite, sphene, apatite, peristerite. 



Two miles southwest of Perth. Bronze mica (phlogopite), 

 having beautiful hexagonal marks on the cleaveage planes. 



Near Otty Lake, in North Elmsley. Apatite, pyroxene, black 

 mica (biotite), zircon, red spinel chondrodite. 



In Burgess. Apatite, black mica (biotite). 



Near Bob Lake, twenty miles northwest of Perth, the best 

 crystals of apatite are found. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 27*7 



Near the St. Lawrence River, six miles southwest of Brockville, 

 large octahedral crystals of iron pyrites, some of them 4 inches in 

 diameter. 



All of these minerals are well crystallized, except the peristerite 

 and chondrodite, and most of them are found in splendid speci- 

 mens. 



I am indebted to Prof. B. Silliman for the examination of the 

 above-mentioned micas. 



Bemarks on Fossils from Wyoming. Prof. Leidy directed 

 attention to some fossils recently received from Dr. J. Van A. 

 Carter, of Fort Bridger, Wyoming. He characterized them as 

 follows : 



1. Pal^eosyops junior. Intermediate in size to P. jxiludosus 

 and P. humilis. Founded on portions of a lower jaw agreeing in 

 character with the corresponding parts of P. paludosus but smaller. 

 Space occupied by the last premolar and the true molars, 4 inches. 

 Antero-posterior diameter of last premolar, 8 lines; of last molar, 

 17i lines. 



2. Uintacyon edax. A remarkable animal, probably marsupial. 

 Indicated by the greater part of a ramus of the lower jaw resem- 

 bling in its form the corresponding part in the Fox. Number of 

 incisors unknown. Fang of canine indicates a tooth proportion- 

 ately as large as in the latter animal. Molar series following close 

 upon the canine, and consisting of eight teeth! First premolar 

 with a single fang, but lost. Second premolar nearly like that in 

 the Fox. Third, anomalous in form as a lower tooth and probably 

 so altogether. The crown is conical, and is inserted by three 

 fangs, of which the odd one is external to the others. The 

 remaining teeth holding the relative proportions of those in the 

 Fox. Fourth premolar with a conical crown and with a thicker 

 heel than in the latter. The fifth premolar and the fore part of 

 the crown of the first molar are lost. The back of the crown of 

 the first molar and the succeeding tooth nearly resembling those 

 in the Fox. The last molar is a small tooth as in the latter, and 

 is inserted by a single fang. Space occupied by the molar series, 

 one and a quarter inches ; that of the true molars is half an inch. 

 Breadth of first molar, one-fourth inch; of second molar, two lines ; 

 of last molar, one line. 



3. Uintacyon vorax. Apparent^ a larger species, indicated 

 by a lower jaw fragment containing the second molar, part of the 

 first one, and the socket of the last. Space occupied by the true 

 molars about eight lines ; breadth of second molar, three lines. 



4. Chameleo pristinus. Indicated by a lower jaw fragment 

 containing eight teeth in a space of five lines. In every respect it 

 agrees in character with the corresponding part in living species 

 of the genus. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Bemarks on Silver Ore from Colorado, by Geo. A. Konig. 

 I had an opportunity, lately, to test a silver ore from Coinload, 

 Colorado, and was astonished at the beautiful crimson and flesh- 

 eolored incrustation, which was obtained by treating the ore with 

 the point of the inner flame on charcoal. The crimson was most 

 intense in a zone immediately following the yellow incrustation of 

 lead, it went gradually through different shades of flesh-color into 

 the white incrustation produced by the teroxyd of antimony. 

 The ore was composed of Galena and antimoniferous ruby silver. 

 After a number of experiments with pure ruby silver from 

 Andreasberg, pure Galena, and pure sulphide of antimony, I found 

 that a crimson color could only be produced by the presence of all 

 three compounds, or an alloy of silver, lead, and antimony ; and that 

 it appeared only just before the silver button had become nearly 

 pure. Now, if we consider that silver alone, when kept in fusion 

 by a strong oxydizing flame, deposits a brown coating in the 

 immediate neighborhood of the button, that lead produces an 

 incrustation of plumbic oxyd, which is of a dark yellow color 

 while hot and a lighter yellow in the cold, and lastly, that antimony 

 gives rise to a copious white coating, at some distance from the 

 flame, of antimoni teroxyd, it seems striking that the three 

 metals together should produce a crimson incrustation. A 

 mechanical mixture of the three oxyds brown, yellow, and white, 

 cannot be supposed to bring about a crimson color. Also the 

 fact, that only then this color appears, when the silver is nearly 

 pure is suggestive of a peculiar chemical combination, formed of 

 the oxydized metals as soon as these are brought into a certain 

 quantitative relation. 



At the same time it must be inferred that the volatility of silver 

 is increased to a considerable amount when this quantitative rela- 

 tion is reached. This latter reflection might throw, perhaps, some 

 light upon the inaccurac}' of the cupelling assay in certain dases, 

 where the loss of silver is larger than usually. 



It seems to me of some interest to investigate into the nature 

 of this crimson-colored compound, and I hope to be able to lay 

 before the Academy some positive results regarding it, at an early 

 date. The observation of crimson-colored incrustations from 

 silver ores containing lead and antimony is not new. Prof. Richter 

 mentions them in the last edition of "Flattner's Probirkunst 

 vor dem Loethrohr," Leipzig, 1865, page 84. But as to the real 

 cause, there has no publication been made, so far as my knowledge 



goes. 



The death of Samuel Emlen Randolph was announced, 



December 17. 

 Dr. J. L. LeConte in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Prof. Cope made some remarks on the Geology of Wyoming, 

 especially vvitli reference to the age of the coal series of Bitter 

 Creek. He said that the discovery of the Dinosaur Agathaumas 

 sylvestris had settled the question of age, concerning which there 

 had been much difference of opinion, in favor of the view that they 

 constitute an upper member of the Cretaceous series. In the 

 sections made, he had succeeded in tracing the line of demarcation 

 between these and the lower beds of the Green River epoch, and 

 had found the leaf beds of the former to be immediately covered 

 by deposits of mammalian remains, with an interval of a few feet 

 only. In the same way, the close approximation of the Evanston 

 cretaceous coal to tertiary strata was determined by the finding 

 of numerous mammalian and reptilian remains in the lower part 

 of the Wahsatch beds of Hayden, or even in the sandstones over- 

 lying the coal. Here two species of Bathmodon were found, cor- 

 responding with the nearly allied genus Melalophodon from the 

 Bitter Creek locality. So far as is yet known, the Balhmodontidas 

 are diagnostic of the Green River formation, and, on this and 

 other grounds, the Wahsatch beds of Evanston were regarded 

 as belonging to it. A further extension of the Green River 

 formation was found at a point 400 miles westward (see Proc. Am. 

 Philos. Soc, July, 1872), near Elko, Nevada, where fishes and 

 insects occur in thin shales. Some of the former are nearly allied 

 to species from the fish beds of Green River. 



He added that exception had been taken to his claiming the final 

 determination of the cretaceous age of the Bitter Creek coal strata 

 (see Silliman's Journal, 1872, Dec, p. 489); his critics presuming 

 that he was unacquainted with previous publications on the subject. 

 It was, however, his knowledge that previous authors had ex- 

 pressed either adverse or doubtful opinions respecting it, that 

 induced him to print the short preliminary notes that had appeared. 

 He was well aware that Messrs. King and Emmons had considered 

 the lower part of these beds as cretaceous, and the upper as 

 tertiary (see Exploration 40th Parallel, III. p. 458), on strati- 

 graphic grounds. Since the cretaceous was represented in different 

 parts of the country by clays, sands, giauconite, chalk, limestone, 

 and sandstone, he thought that palaeontological evidence was 

 needed to complete the demonstration. This had not been pro- 

 duced for the locality in question, but the nearest point (Hallville) 

 had been called Tertiary by Mr. Meek, and Prof. Lesquereaux 

 (Hayden's Survey of Terrs., 1870, p. 306) had considered the 

 fossil flora of Point of Rocks, forty miles westward, as of "unknown 

 age," and those of Evanston as miocene. Hayden himself is well 

 known to regard the strata as of uncertain or transitional age. 

 Paheontological determinations of cretaceous age of the Bitter 

 Oeek series were very indefinite up to the publication in question. 

 But first he would remark, that his critic was doubtless uninformed 

 as to the geography of Wyoming, when he cited Prof. Marsh's 

 determination of the cretaceous age of the coal of Brush Creek, a 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



locality from 150 to 200 miles distant. So with the determinations 

 from Weber River (Coalville) 200 miles, and Evanston and Sulphur 

 Creek 150 miles distant, on the opposite side of the Bridger Basin. 

 He did not regard these as determinations affecting the age of the 

 Bitter Creek Beds any more than they did of the Eocene coal of 

 Osino, 200 miles west of them. 



The only approximations to the point were made by Mr. Meek. 

 In King's Survey of the 40th Parallel (1. c. 462),- Mr. Meek's 

 nearest points of investigation were the shell beds of Sulphur 

 Creek (Bear River) ; of these he says, " While I am, therefore, 

 willing to admit that facts may yet be discovered that will warrant 

 the conclusion that some of these estuary beds should be included 

 rather in the Cretaceous than in the Tertiary, it seems to me that 

 such evidence must either come from included vertebrate remains, 

 etc." This is not very conclusive, and acknowledges in advance 

 the importance of the determination of vertebrates from the same 

 neighborhood (Evanston), and from Bitter Creek, above described. 

 Secondly, in Hayden's Survey, 18T0, p. 298, the only determina- 

 tion of the age of coal of the Bitter Creek area is tertiary (Hall- 

 ville). Thirdly, in Hayden's Survey Montana, etc. (1871, p. 375), 

 Mr. Meek enumerates three species from this region (Point of 

 Rocks) as cretaceous, every one with question as to the determi- 

 nation, which, therefore, decides little as to the age of the beds. 

 In the same way all his Coalville species are marked with question. 

 In his earliest investigation in connection with Mr. Engleman, in 

 Capt. Simpson's Report (1860), he expressly states that the age 

 of the Bitter Creek coal series is unknown. 



Thus it seems that a knowledge of the literature of the geology 

 of the Bitter Creek coal, shows : I. The Messrs. King and Emmons 

 on stratigraphic evidence referred the lower part to the cretaceous 

 and the upper to the tertiary. That on Palreontological grounds, 

 II. Mr. Lesquereanx regards them as tertiary; III. Mr. Meek's 

 evidence is doubtful; 1 and, IV. Dr. Hayden has believed in a 

 transition series. 



Hence it appeared to the speaker, that the explorations directed 

 by Dr. Hayden during the past season had contributed largely to 

 our knowledge, proving the existence of an interruption between 

 the cretaceous and tertiaiy formations ; less it is true than that 

 which exists elsewhere, and similar to that insisted on by Clarence 

 King's survey in the region of Bear River and the Wahsatch 

 country. 



Prof. Cope defined a genus of Saurodont Fishes from the 

 Niobrara Cretaceous of Kansas, under the name of Erisichthe. 

 He stated that it agreed with Portheus and Ichthyodectes in the 

 absence of nutritious dental foramina on the inner face of the 



1 This gentleman has stated in a letter to the writer that the Bitter Creek 

 Beds constitute a "new zone." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 281 



dentary bone, and especially with Portheus in the irregular sizes 

 of the teeth. The crowns are, however, compressed and knife- 

 like, and closely similar to those of Saurocephalus. The typical 

 species was called Erisichthe nitida, and was stated to have been 

 discovered in the cretaceous formation of Kansas, near to the 

 Solomon River, by Prof. B. F. Mudge. The enamel of the teeth 

 is smooth and glistening, and their outline acuminate and 

 rather elongate. In the anterior part of the jaw are two teeth 

 much larger than the others, separated by a small tooth. The 

 posterior of these is much compressed, while the anterior is oval 

 in section, with one angular edge. Length of the restored skull 

 between one and two feet. 



It was added that the Portheus angulatus, Cope, probably 

 belongs to the genus Erisichthe, and that it differs from E. nitida 

 in its greater size and other features. The genus was further 

 stated to be abundant in certain formations of the Southern States, 

 and in the English chalk. Isolated specimens of large teeth from 

 the latter had been referred to the genus Saurocephalus in the 

 Poissons Fossiles, which could not be distinguished from those of 

 the genus newly described. 



December 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, -in the chair. 

 JFen members present. 



December 31. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The following reports were read, and referred to the Publication 

 Committee: 



THE LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that the number of addi- 

 tions to the library from January to December, 1872, inclusive, 

 amounts to 1488. 



Of these 250 were volumes, 1230 pamphlets and parts of periodi- 

 cals, and 8 maps and charts ; 1135 were octavos, 310 quartos, 20 

 duodecimos, 15 folios, and 8 maps. 



They were derived from the following sources : 



Societies 106, Editors 139, Authors 188, Wilson Fund 67, Isaac 

 Lea 12, Imperial Botanical Garden of St. Petersburg 11, Thomas 

 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Meehan 10, Chilian Government 9, Geological Survey of Tndia 9, 

 Treasury Department 7, Publishers 7, Dr. Charles Schaffer 6, 

 Capt. R. II. Wyman 6, S. S. Haldeman 5, Publication Committee 

 5, Dr. Finsch 5, Geological Survej r of Italy 4, New York State 

 Library 4, F. V. Hayden 4, Minister of Public Works, France, 3, 

 Department of the Interior 3, Geo. W. Try on, Jr., 2, Dr. Jos. Leidy 

 2, Prof. Geo. H. Cook 2, Jos. Jeanes 2, Gen. C. B. Comstock 1, D. 

 W. Dawson 1, Commissioner of Fisheries, New Jersey, 1, J. M. 

 Maisch 1, F. A. Walker 1, Dr. H. C. Wood 1, Chief of Engineers 

 U.S.A. 1, War Department 1. Two hundred and sixty-two were 

 purchased. 



Two volumes and forty-seven pamphlets were received through 

 the Conchological Section, and eight volumes through the Micro- 

 scopical and Biological Section. 



These additions were distributed to the several departments of 

 the library as follows: Journals 1035, Geology 112, General Natu- 

 ral History 58, Conchology 60, Botany 46, Medicine 30, Entomo- 

 logy 28, Physical Science 27, Ornithology 15, Mineralogy 14, 

 Bibliography 12, Politics 12, Anaton^ and Physiology 10, Ichthy- 

 ology 7, Helminthology 6, Voyages and Travels 6, Herpetology 4, 

 Chemistry 4, Mammalog}' 2. 



During the year 157 volumes have been bound, and 30 volumes 

 are now in the hands of the binder. 



Twenty-eight applications have been received from members for 

 books required b}' them in the pursuit of their studies, and not to 

 be found in the library. Twenty of these have been received, and 

 the others have been ordered. 



In common with nearly all the other departments of the Aca- 

 demy the library is suffering from want of room. The difficulty 

 of properly arranging the journals and periodicals, especially, is 

 becoming daily greater in consequence of the regularity with which 

 large exchanges are received from corresponding societies at home 

 and abroad. In rnaity instances it has become necessary to place 

 the older volumes of a series out of view at the back of the cases 

 to make room for the current numbers. It is not possible to do 

 this, however, where the volumes are large and the book-cases 

 shallow, so that the necessity for additional room is becoming- 

 daily more pressing. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Museum of the Academy continues in its usual condition, 

 and the more perishable departments are in a fair state of preser- 

 vation. While several remain in a state of comparative confusion, 

 others are in an advanced condition of arrangement. The con- 

 chological cabinet, which now numbers upwards of 21,000 species, 

 is reported to have nearly one-half of the collection systematically 

 arranged and properly labelled. 



Mr. James A. Ogden, one of the members of the ornithological 

 committee, informs us that during the past year, the entire collec- 

 tion of birds has been carefully examined, and those which were 

 found infested were submitted to the heating process. He also 

 assures us that the collection is now in good order. Further, 

 several families have been arranged, and about 1400 specimens 

 labelled. 



Several hundred duplicate bird skins were presented to the 

 Chicago Academy of Sciences, according to a special vote of our 

 Academy. 



The donations and additions to the collections and Museum of 

 the Academy during the year are as follows: 



Mammals. The skeleton of a Whale, Megaptera be.llicosa, Cope, 

 from St. Barts, W. I., was presented by Wm. S. Vaux, and I. Lea. 

 Dr. Ruschenberger presented a skull, a skeleton, and a mounted 

 skin of a Japan Dog. Dr. II. Rand presented four skulls of 

 Monkeys, and Dr. H. C. Chapman, the skull of a very old Horse. 

 Several mammal skins from the West Coast were presented by 

 George Davidson. 



Birds. Mr. James A. Ogden, of the ornithological committee, 

 submits to us the following list of donations: 



Skins of Haliaet'us leucocephalus. two Mormon cirrJiata, two 

 Hsematopus niger, H. palliatus, and Mergulus Cassinii, from the 

 West Coast of North America, presented by George Davidson. 



Ardea ludoviciana, Larus argentatas, and Mergulus alle, from 

 North Carolina, presented by Dr. II. C. Yarrow, U.S.A. 



Pelecanus fuscus and two Querquedula discors, from St. Martins, 

 W. I., presented by Dr. R. E. Van Riggersma. 



Eight species of birds, from San Domingo, presented by Wm. 

 M. Gabb. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



An albino Pipilo erythrophthalmus, from Georgia, presented by 

 Bayard King. 



Three skins of Sturhus vulgaris, two Lanius rufus, Cinclus 

 aquaticus, two Sitla europsea, Chrysornitris pinus, Mecistura 

 caadata, Parus atee, Iluscicapa griseola, Passer' montana Frin- 

 gilla montifringilla, F. ccelebs, Coccothraustes vulgaris, three 

 Erythraca familiaris, Regains cristalus, from Switzerland, and 

 Troglodytes sedon from this State. Presented by the ornithological 

 committee. 



Ten nests with eggs, from Illinois, presented by Mrs. Wm. 

 Turner. 



Reptiles and Fishes. Small collections of reptiles were pre- 

 sented as follows: From Central America, by George Davidson; 

 ten species, from Florida, by T. J. Kochersperger ; and from 

 W} r oming Territory, by Dr. Leidy. A collection of reptiles and 

 fishes, from St. Domingo, was presented by Wm. M. Gabb. 



A flying fish, Exocetus obtusirostris, from off the Cape de Yerd 

 Island, was presented by Dr. A. L. Gihon, U.S.A. One species of 

 fish from the Raritan River, was presented by A. H. Smith, and 

 one from Michigan, by J. Y. Lemoyne. 



Osteological and Ethnological Specimens.- A male and female 

 skeleton of Indians, from a mound on San Miguel Island, the 

 most western of the St. Barbara Islands, were presented by 

 George Davidson. An Indian skull, together with fragments of 

 potteiy and stone implements, from the vicinity of a shell mound 

 at Cedar Keys, Florida, were presented by H. J. Smith. An 

 Indian skull, from a mound near Melton, Indiana, was presented 

 by Clarence S. Bement. A collection of flint chips, from Crow 

 Creek, Wyoming, was presented by E. L. Berthoud, and an 

 antique pestle, from Gloucester, N. J., by Joseph S. Lodge. 



Invertebrates. The special donations and additions to the 

 conchological cabinet, will be given in the Report of the Con- 

 servator of the Conchological Section. A collection, from Santa 

 Barbara, California, was presented by George Davidson. A col- 

 lection of crustaceans, corals, gorgonias, and sponges, from St. 

 Domingo, by William M. Gabb. A collection of shells, star- 

 fishes, and corals, from North Carolina, by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, 

 U.S.A. Several Cirrhipeds, and Ilolothurians, from the Isle of 

 Shoals, by Mrs. C. Pennock. A huge Lobster, from our coast, by 

 G. W. Bugbee. A Scorpion and a Mygale, from Florida, by T. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



J. Kochersperger ; and specimens of the seventeen year Locust, 

 by S. L. McAllister. 



Fossils. A large collection of remains of mammals and reptiles, 

 from the Bridger Tertiary formation of Wyoming Territory, has 

 been presented by Dr. J. Van A. Carter and Dr. Joseph K. Corson, 

 U.S.A. Among these are the t}^pes of the species described or 

 noticed by the writer in the present volume of the Proceedings. 

 The fine specimen of a Turtle, from the same locality, described 

 under the name of Baptemys wyomingensis, has likewise been 

 obtained for the Academy through exchange. A nearly complete 

 plastron of the Testudo Corsoni from the same locality was pre- 

 sented hy Mrs. Dr. J. Van A. Carter. A fine dorsal shield of 

 Trionyx uintaensis, was likewise presented by Major Robert S. 

 La Motte, commander at Fort Bridger. Another rich collection 

 of fossils, presented to the Academy during this year, consists of 

 350 species of mollusks, from Santa Domingo, received from our 

 generous fellow-member and able geologist, William M. Gabb, on 

 condition that he shall have the privilege of withdrawing the 

 specimens for study if neeessaiy. Mr. Gabb has also presented 

 seven species of fossil shark teeth from St. Domingo; a mass of 

 stalagmite with shells, from the cave of San Lorenzo, St. Domingo ; 

 and several fossil foot-prints in redshale, from the valley of the 

 Little Schuylkill River. 



The following collections were also presented : Twenty-two 

 species of fossil mollusks, corals, and crinoids, from the carboni- 

 ferous limestone of England, a vertebra of Ichthyosaurus, and six 

 do. of Plesioasaurus, from the Lias of England, by Clarence S. 

 Bement. Dicotyledinous leaves in red sandstone from the creta- 

 ceous formation near Fort Darker, Kansas, from Dr. B. E. Fryer, 

 U.S.A. 



Fresh-water shells, from Crow Creek, Wyoming, from E. L. 

 Berthoud. Jaw fragment of Eschrichtius Davidsonii, Cope, from 

 San Diego, Cal., from George Davidson. 



Two vertebrae of Macrosaurus, a tooth and three coossified ver- 

 tebra? of Mosasaurus, and a fragment of a large limb bone, from 

 the marl of Woodstown, N. J., from S. Shortledge, of Kennett 

 Square, Chester Count}", Penn. Two species of fossil fishes, from 

 Verona, Daly, from Mr. Harrison. 



In addition, Dr. Thomas X. Penrose, U.S.IS 1 "., presented a large 

 slab of stone with a section of an Orthoceratite mounted as a 




2S6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



screen, and well-illustrating the chambered arrangement of the 

 shell. 



Plants. Mr. Thomas Meehan presented two hundred species 

 of plants, from Colorado, and the fruit of Larix leptolejiis, of 

 Japan. Dr. George Englemann, of St. Louis, presented seven 

 species of Lemna, from the vicinity of Mexico. Mr. John B. King 

 presented a small collection of Cuban mosses. Dr. Leidy pre- 

 sented a collection of plants from "Wyoming. Several specimens 

 were presented by C. W. Zuremba and T. H. Streets. 



Ilinerals. The following specimens were presented: 



Realgar and euchroite, from Hungary; fluor, Hartz; erythrite, 

 Saxon}'; calcite, Cornwall, E.; willemite, jeffersonite, and two 

 calamines, Franklin, N. J.; Allanite, Orange Co.; and three brown 

 tourmalines, St. Lawrence County, X. Y. ; cuprite, Cornwall, E., 

 from Clarence S. Bement. 



A fine large apophyllite with stilbite, from Poonah, Hindostan, 

 from Win. S. Vaux. 



A fine large amethyst with fluor, from Thunder Bay, L. S., from 

 E. W. Clark" 



Phlogopite, scapolite, hornblende, New York ; cummingtonite 

 and zoisite, Ducktown, Polk County, Tenn.; massive chrysolite, 

 and corundum, Franklin, Macon County, N. C, from Joseph 

 Willcox. 



A fine large crystallized jeffersonite, from Franklin, N. J., from 

 Joseph Willcox and S. B. Howell. 



Zincite, Franklin, and hornblende, Andover, N. J., from S. B. 

 Howell. 



Group of muscovite crystals, from Chester Count}', from I. Lea. 

 Corundum with talcose schist, from L T nionville, Chester County, 

 from George Ball. Stilbite, from Frankford, from John Bartlet. 

 Floatstone, from Oregon, from E. Goldsmith. Two cannel coals, 

 from West Virginia, from B. S. Lyman. 



By purchase and exchange there were also obtained ruby and 

 sapphire corundum, from Macon County, N. C; corundum with 

 chlorite, crystallized red copper, and bournonite. 



The Curators regret to state, that during the past year several 

 valuable minerals have been stolen from the Museum. It ma} 7 be 

 added that in consequence of the present great extent of the latter, 

 and the want of proper labelling and numbering, with a catalogue 

 of the collections, we are unable in many instances, to discover 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



depredations and their extent. It is to be hoped that in a short 

 time the Academy will feel the importance of appointing a paid 

 curator and assistants, whose duty it shall be as early as possible, 

 to put the Museum in complete order of arrangement, to number 

 all its specimens, and prepare a cat alogue of the same. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL COMMITTEE. 



To the President and Members of the Academy: 



The Committee on Botany respectfully report, that during the 

 year good collections of plants have been contributed b} r Dr. 

 Gibbons from California, T. Meehan from Colorado and Western 

 Kansas, Prof. Davidson from California, Dr. Leidy from the Uinta 

 Mountains, and Professor Asa Gray, a large package chiefly of 

 tropical rubiaceas. The American plants have added largely to 

 the value of the herbarium, in regard to botanical geography, and 

 by furnishing specimens in varying conditions of growth, besides 

 in a few cases adding to the number of species in the already 

 pretty full collection. 



The Committee are desirous of bringing the general herbarium 

 nearer completeness. In order the better to ascertain its defici- 

 encies, the work of preparing a catalogue of species has been com- 

 menced. Rough lists have been prepared of the first twenty-three 

 volumes, serving as indices to each volume temporarily; and it is 

 hoped that the whole one hundred and twenty-seven volumes will 

 be thus far finished by the next year. 



Thomas Meehan, for the Committee. 



RECORDING SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that, during the 

 year ending November 30th, 1812, there have been elected thirty- 

 nine members and four correspondents. 



The announcement has been made of the death of the following 

 members and correspondents: 



Fourteen members, namely: Wm. W. Gerhard, M.D., Dr. Win. 

 Stimpson, John Farnum, Maj. Sydney S. Lyon, John G. Moore, T. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



f 



Clarkson Taylor, Prof. Edward Parrish, Mr. Chas. Wilson Peale, 

 Mr. James II. Orne, Prof. John F. Frazer, Dr. Mifflin Wister, 

 Constant Guillou, Maj. Gen. G. G. Meade, U.S.A., and S. Emlen 

 Randolph. 



One correspondent, namely: Sir Roderick J. Murchison. 



Two resignations of membership have been accepted. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy during the year, has been twenty- 

 seven, as follows : 



F. B. Meek 1 



E. D. Cope 3 



O. Finsch 1 



Thomas Meehan 2 



E. L. Berthond 1 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 7 



T. Hale Streets, M.D 1 



Thomas Bland and W. G. Binney . 1 



John G. Cooper 1 



Isaac Lea, LL.D 1 



T. A. Conrad 2 ! Theo. Gill, M.D 1 



Elliott Coues 2 I Wm. M. Gabb 3 



Five papers ordered to be published in medical journals, as 

 follows : 



Joseph Leidy, M.D 1 



James Tyson, M.D 1 



Albert Fricke, M.D 1 



Jos. G. Richardson, M.D. ... 2 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Samuel B. Howell, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF RECORDER OF BIOLOGICAL AND 

 MICROSCOPICAL SECTION. 



Read before the Section December 2d, 1872, and directed to be forwarded to 

 the Academy as the Report of the Section for the current year. 



The closing business } r ear of 1872 leaves our Biological and 

 Microscopical Section in a much more healthy and vigorous con- 

 dition than did its immediate predecessor. In spite of the gloomy 

 forebodings, which twelvemonths ago threatened our department 

 with complete and speedy extinction, we can this evening look 

 back to a better record, of real scientific work accomplished 

 during the past 3 r ear, than even warm friends of a Microscopical 

 society dared at one time to hope was within the bounds of possi- 

 bilit}-. When we remember that our eminently honorable and 

 useful parent Academy of the Natural Sciences, Avith her far larger 

 membership, and wider claims upon the scientific world for sup- 

 port, has on a few untoward occasions even found it difficult to 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 289 



convene the quorum requisite to transact her ordinary business, 

 we may well feel encouraged to persevere in thus meeting together, 

 although the paucity of our number sometimes might otherwise be 

 enough to dishearten the most earnest seeker after truth among us. 



Prominent in the list of triumphs during the past year, stands 

 of course our Exhibition of microscopes and microscopical appa- 

 ratus, given in Horticultural Hall, to the American Medical Asso- 

 ciation, on the evening of May 1th, and witnessed with warmly 

 expressed satisfaction, not only by the members of the National 

 Convention and their ladies, but also b}' hundreds of the inhabi- 

 tants of Philadelphia, whose awakening interest in the wonders 

 and beauties of microscopy, as well as their enjoyment of the 

 results attained by microscopic investigation, formed a gratifying- 

 feature of the occasion. At this exhibition one hundred and six 

 instruments, adjusted to a classified collection of objects, illus- 

 trating most of the different applications of the higher magnifying 

 powers, to researches in Medicine, Natural History, Botany, 

 Chemistry, etc., were arranged upon our tables. The display of 

 microscopes is said to have been the largest ever gathered 

 together for a similar reception in America, and it excited much 

 admiration among both visitors and citizens. There is no doubt 

 that such demonstrations of downright facts, in regard to the 

 advancement of our knowledge of nature, either with or without 

 the aid of the microscope, will lead to a more and more just 

 appreciation of the inestimable value an Academy for the study 

 of the natural sciences has to the community at large, and thus 

 contribute in some measure towards creating that much needed 

 disposition, among merchants and business men, to foster such 

 an institution, by subscribing the comparatively trivial amount 

 of pecuniary endowment necessary for its successful operation 

 and support. 



Among the more or less elaborated papers and oral communica- 

 tions, presented before the section during the past year, may be 

 enumerated Dr. Henry C. Chapman's remarks upon Embryology, 

 profusely illustrated by charts and drawings, and his comments 

 this evening upon the Polycystina, etc. ; Dr. Albert Fricke's 

 valuable contribution to the medical history of our recent Equine 

 epidemic; Dr. J. H. McQuillen's description of Salivary calculus 

 and Oral Microzoa; Dr. Isaac Norris' paper on the History and 

 value of Polarized light as applied to the microscope; Dr. J. Gr. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hunt's dissertation on the Preparation and preservation of 

 Tissues; Mr. Joseph Zentmayer's discourse upon Erectors and 

 a new Erecting prism; Dr Jas. Tyson's article on Urinary 

 microscopy, and his interesting oral communication upon Practical 

 Histology in Germany; and Dr. Jos. G. Richardson's papers on 

 Certain Human Parasitic Fungi, and their relations to disease, 

 and upon a new method of preserving Tumors and some urinary 

 deposits during transportation. 



Discussions upon the various subjects thus brought under the 

 consideration of the members, have been remarkable for their un- 

 usually practical and useful character; indeed, so eminent have 

 they appeared in this respect, that reports of our proceedings have 

 always been warmly welcomed by the Editors of The Philadelphia 

 Medical Times, in whose interesting columns they, as well as 

 several of the papers read before the Section, have from time to 

 time been published. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Jos. G. Richardson, Recorder. 



REPORT OF CONSERVATOR OF CONCHOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully re- 

 ports that the donations to the Cabinet, during the past year, have 

 been as follows: 



Beadle, Rev. E. R. Helix Schrammi, from St. Martins, W. I. 



Bland, Thos. Bulimus aureolas, from West Indies. 



Conrad, T. A. Ancylus, from Trenton, N. J., and twenty-seven 



species of Unionidse, from the vicinity of Raleigh, N. C, 



determined for the Section hy Mr. Lea. 

 Dall, W. H. Nine species of Acmaea, types of new species. 

 Gabb, Wm. M. Small collection of terrestrial and marine 



mollusca, from St. Domingo. 

 Jewett, Col. E. Two species, from Charlotte Harbor, Fla. 

 Newcomb, W. Carelia extincta, n. s. from Sandwich Islands. 

 Pennock, Mrs. Caroline. E<2,o-cases of Fusus Islandicus. Pur- 



pura lapillus, from Isle of Shoals, off Portsmouth, N. H. 

 Pease, W. Harper. Six species of marine mollusca, from 



Central Pacific Ocean, types. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



Summichrast, Dr. Species of Cylindrella, from near Tehuan- 



tepec. 

 Yarrow, Dr. H. C. A small collection of marine shells, from 



Fort Macon, N. C. 



Forty-four species of West Indian Helices, new to the collec- 

 tion, were purchased from Mr. Thos. Bland. 



Thirty-eight species not heretofore in the collection of the 

 Academy, from the Island of Mauritius, were presented by the 

 following gentlemen: Win. S. Vaux, 13 species; Isaac Lea, 5; 

 Wm. M. Gabb, 5; Beuj. Smith Lyman, 4; S. R. Roberts, 2; Chas. 

 F. Parker, 5; and Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 4. 



The Committee on the arrangement of the Collection have been 

 working industriously, and report that during the year the 

 arrangement of the Land and Fresh-water shells has been com- 

 pleted, as well as that of the JSferites, A T ei*etinas, Harps, Astartes, 

 Cardilas, and a portion of the Veneridse. The amount of work 

 done exceeds that of any previous year, as the following state- 

 ment will show: Number of species determined during 1872, 

 2862 ; number of labels written, 4898 ; number of specimens 

 cleaned and mounted, 19,932. The total number of species 

 determined by the Committee to date is 6893; total number of 

 labels written, 12,067; total number of specimens mounted, 

 40,873. 



Our system of exchange has been during the past year discon- 

 tinued, in consequence of the great and increasing difficulty of 

 obtaining desiderata except by purchase. This is owing to the 

 nearly complete condition of many portions of the collection. It 

 may be mentioned, as an illustration of this fact, that out of 913 

 species recently received for examination from the Island of 

 Mauritius, but thirty-eight species, reported above, could be found 

 new to the collection. 



All of which is respectftuTy submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Conservator. 



At an adjourned meeting held January 7, 1873, the following 

 were elected members : Chas. Macalester, Wm. B. Bement, 

 Richard H. Townsend, M.D., Wm. Logan Fox, Dr. Chas. A. 

 Siegfried, U.S.N.. and Mrs. Caroline Pennock. 



Jabez Hogg, F.L.S., was elected a Correspondent. 




292 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The election of Officers, for the year 1873, was held in accord- 

 ance with the By-Laws, with the following result: 



President . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Presidents . . Wm, S. Vaux, 



Jos. Carson, M.D. 



Recording Secretary . Samuel B. Howell, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary Edward D. Cope. 



Librarian 

 Treasurer 

 Curators . 



Council 



Publication Committee 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Wm. C. Hensze}'. 



Jos. Leidy, M.D., 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Geo. W. Try on, Jr., 

 Edward D. Cope. 



Isaac Lea, 



Robt. Bridges, M.D., 

 Edward S. Whelen, 

 Isaac Hays, M.D. 



Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Geo. W. Try on, Jr., 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



ELECTIONS FOR 1872. 



The following are the names of Members and Correspondents of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences elected during the year 1872. 



MEMBERS. 



April 30. Dr. G. Stiles^ Passmore Williamson, Mr. and Mrs. 

 Bloomfield H. Moore, Alfred I). Jessup, Wm. F. Miskey, Wm. G. 

 Preedly, F. B. Gowan, E. Burd Grubb, Tlios. R. Dunglison, M.D., 

 John Thompson. 



May 28. Jos. W. Miller, D. Shepherd Holman, P. P. Morris, 

 Joseph H. Ogden, Joseph E. Gillingham, Dr. T. M. Drown. 



September 24. Jas. C. Rea, M.D., Sarah P. Monks, John Doyle, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Thos. A. Robinson, Capt. Wm. Prince, U.S.A., Thos. Sinnickson, 

 Henry Leffman, M.D., John P. Brock. 



October 29. Dr. John F. Bransford, U.S.N. 



November 26. C. P. Krauth, Joseph Hazard, Dr. George A. 

 Koenig, Thos. M. Chatard, Gideon E. Moore, J. Enen Loughlin, 

 M.D., Francis Garden Smyth, M.D., C. Perry Sinnickson, John J. 

 Thompson. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



May 28. E. Riviere, of Menton, France. 



October 29. George M. Sternberg, U.S.A., of Fort Barancas, 

 Florida. 



November 26. J. W. Powell, of Washington, D. C; Capt. C. M. 

 Scammon, of San Francisco, Cal. 




294 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY. 



For 1872. 



January. George S. Brady, acknowledging receipt of notice of election 

 as correspondent. 



Astor Library, New York ; 



American Antiquarian Society, "Worcester ; 



Academie Royale des Lettres et des Beaux-arts, Bruxelles ; 



Bibliotheca Universitatis, Lugduno-Batavi ; 



Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy, Rotterdam ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft of Basel, Switzerland ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich ; 

 . Schlesische Gesellschaft fur vaterlandische Naturkunde ; 



Bataafsch Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke ; 



Wijsbegeerte te Rotterdam ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



Institut Royal Meteorologique, Utrecht ; 



L'Observatoire Central Physique, St. Petersbourg ; 



Aerztliche Verein in Frankfurt-am-Main ; 



Jardin Imperial de Botanique, St. Petersbourg ; 



Physikalisch oekonomische Gesellschaft zu Konigsburg ; with publica- 

 tions. 



Linnean Society, London ; 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences, Harlem ; 



Academic Royale des Sciences, Amsterdam ; 



Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Mi'mchen ; ac- 

 knowledging receipt of publications and forwarding others in return. 



February. Dr. W. Boeck, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as 

 correspondent. 



B. F. Sands, regarding preparations to be made for the observation of the 

 transit of Venus across the disk of the Sun in ly~4. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington; 



Societe D'Histoire Naturelle, Bern; 



Academie Royale des Sciences, Lisbon ; 



La Societe des Sciences physiques ct naturelles, Bordeaux ; 



Schweizerische Gesellschaft, Bern ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Gorlitz ; acknowledging receipt of publi- 

 cations. 



Societe Entomologique de France, Paris ; 



Societe Entomologique de Russie, St. Petersbourg ; 




CORRESPONDENCE. 295 



Physikalischcs Central-Observatoriurn, St. Petersbourg ; 

 Societe de Physique et de Histoire Naturelle, Geneva; 

 Kiralyi raagyar termeszettudomanyi tarsulat, Pest; 

 Naturforschcnde Gesellschaft, Bern ; with publications. 

 Societe Royale des Sciences, Upsal ; 



Academie Roj'ale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-arts, Bruxelles ; 

 Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenscliaften in Wien ; acknowledging 

 receipt of publications and forwarding others in return. 



March. Prof. S. F. Baird, with photographic pictures of fishes and other 

 marine animals. 



Royal Society of London ; 



Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel ; acknowledging receipt of 

 publications. 



Naturhistorische Verein in Passau ; with publications. 



April. Notice of the death of M. Francois-Jules Pictet de la Rive. 



Naturforschende Verein in Brunn ; acknowledging receipt of publications. 



L' Academie Royale Suedoise des Sciences, Stockholm ; 



Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft ; with publications. 



Societe Royale des Sciences, Upsal ; acknowledging receipt of publications 

 and forwarding others in return. 



May. Naturhistorischer Verein in Augsburg; with publications. 

 June. Campbell Carrington, with specimens. 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences, Haarlem ; with publications and ac- 

 knowledging receipt of others. 



July. Zoological Society of London ; 



Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg ; acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



August. Chas. W. Zaremba, with specimens of Prunus fragrans and an 

 application for a new diploma as correspondent. 



September. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein zu Bremen ; acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin ; 



Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, Pest; with publications. 



October. J. E. Harris, with inquiries as to the whereabouts of Rafinesque's 

 collection of shells. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington ; 



American Geographical Society, New York ; 



Essex Institute, Salem ; 



U. S. Surgical Library, Washington ; 



Yale College, New Haven ; 



Geological Society of London ; 



Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, London ; 



Royal Society of Edinburgh ; 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society ; 



Philosophical Society of Glasgow ; 




296 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



Society of Belfast ; 



University of Aberdeen ; 



Zoologisch-botanische Gesellscbaft, Wien ; severally acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of publications. 



Universidad de Cbile, Santiago ; 



Kiralyi Magyar termeszettudomanyi tarsnlat, Pest ; 



Pbysikaliscli-mediciniscbe Societiit in Eiiangen ; witb publications. 



Naturforschende Gesellscbaft in Frankfurt-am-Main ; 



Kaiserlicbe Akademie der Wissenschaften in "Wien ; acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of publications and forwarding otbers in return. 



November. Edward Sang, witb Table of Logarithms for examination. 



Lyceum of Natural History of New York ; acknowledging receipt of 

 publications. 



December. E. A. Papineau, regarding the Society's publications on En- 

 tomology and Omitbology. 



Lyceum of Natural History of New York ; acknowledging receipt of 

 publications. 



Academic Royale des Sciences, Amsterdam ; 



Societe Hollandaisc des Sciences, Haarlem ; witb publications. 



Linnean Society, London ; sending publications and acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of ours. 



Number of letters received, 1872 101 



" of correspondents elected 4 



Which is respectfully submitted, 



EDWARD D. COPE, 



Corresponding Secretary. 

 Dec. 31, 1872. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 291 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY, 1872. 

 JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Stockholm. K. Svenska Veteuskaps Akademiens Handlingar, Ny Foljd 



Sjunde Bandet, Andra Haftet. Attonde und Nioude Bandet, 1868-70. 



From the Society. 

 Ofversigt af K. Vetenskaps Akademiens Forhandlingar. Tjugondes- 



jette und Tjugondesjunde Argangen, 1870-71. From the Society. 

 Upsal. Nova Acta Regiaj Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis, Seriei Tertian, 



Vol. VII. Fasc. 1 and 2, and Vol. VIII. Fasc. 1, 1869, 1870, and 



1871. From the Society. 

 Bulletin Meteorologique mensuel de l'Observatoire de l'Universite 



d'Upsal. Vol. L, Nos. 1-12; Vol. III., Nos. 1-12, 1871. From the 



Observatory. 



NORWAY. 



Throndjem. Det K. N. Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter i det 19de Aar- 

 hundrede. From the Society. 



DENMARK. 



Kjobenhavn. Tillaeg til Aarboger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historic. 



Aargang, 1870-71. Udgivet af det K. N. Oldskrift Selskab, 1870-71. 



From the Society. 

 Videnskabelige Medelelser fra Naturhistorisk Forening i Kjobenhavn 



for Aarett 1868 and 1871. From the Society. 

 Oversigt over det K. Danske Videnskabernes 'Selskabs Forhandlingar 



og dets Medlemmers Arbeider in Aaret 1871. From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Societe Royale des Antiquaires du Nord. Nouvelle 



Serie, 1870-71. From the Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Archiv fur die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst und Kurlands herausgegeben 

 von der Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft, lste Serie ; 5er Band, 

 lste Lief, 6es Band, 2te und drilte Schluss-Lief, 1870. From the 

 Society. 

 Sitzungsbericht der Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft. 3er Band 

 2es Heft., 1870. From the Society. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou 

 Annee 1870, No. 3 to 1872, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Nouveaux Memoires de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou 

 Tome XIII., Livr. III., 1871. From the Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St 

 Petersburg. 7e Serie. Tome NVL, No. 9 to Tome XVIII. , No 7 

 1870-71. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de l'Acad. Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersburg. Tome 



XVI., Nos. 2-6, Tome XVII., Nos. 1-3. From the Society. 

 Repertoriam fur Meteorologie herausgegeben von der K. Akad. der 

 Wissenschaften. Band II., No. 2, 1872. From the Societv. 

 20 ^ 




298 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Jahresbericht des physikalischen Central Observatoriums fur 1870. 



From tbc Observatory. 

 Annates de l'Observatoire Pbysique Central de Russie. Annees 1867-68. 



From tbe Observatory. 

 Horse Societatis Entomologicse Rossicse. T. VII., No. 4. Tome VIII. 



No. 2, 1871. From the'Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Jaarboek van der K. Academic van Wetenscbappen. 1869- 



70. From tbe Academy. 

 Processen-verbaal van de "ewone vergaderiugen der K. Akademie van 



Wetenscbappen, Afd. Natuurkunde van Mei, 1869 to April, 1871. 



From tbe Academy. 

 Verslagen en Mededeelingen der K. Akademie van Wetenscbappen. 



Afd. Natnnrkunde. 1869-71. From tbe Academy. 

 Haarlem. Natuurknndige "V erhandelingen van de HollandscheMaatschap- 



pij der Wetenscbappen te Haarlem. Derde Verg. Deel I., 1872. 



From tbe Society. 

 Niederlandische Arcbiv fur Zoologie beransgegeben von EmilSelenka. 



Band I, les Heft, 1871. Purchased. 

 Arcbives Neerlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles, publiees 



par la Societe Hollandaise des Sciences a Harlem, 1871. Tome VI., 



Livr. 1-5. From tbe Society. 

 Hague. Annalen der Stermvarte in Leiden. 2er Band, 1870. From the 



Observatory. 

 Rotterdam. Nieuwe Verbandlingen van bet Bataafscb Genootschap der 



Proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte te Rotterdam. Tweedie Reeks : 



Tweedie Deel, Eerste Stuk., 1870. From tbe Society. 

 Utrecht. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Jaarboek voor 1869, 1870, 1871. 



Uitgegeven door bet K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Institut., 1870. 



From the Society. 

 Verbandlingen der K. Akademie van Wetenscbappen. 12de Deel, 



1871. From the Society. 



GERMANY. 



Augsburg. Einundzwanzigster Bericht des naturhistorischen Vereins in 



Augsburg. Veroffentlicht in Jahre 1871. From the Society. 

 Bamberg. Neunter Bericht der naturforschenden Gesellscbaft zu Bam- 

 berg, Jahrg. 1869-70. From the Society. 

 Berlin. Sitzungs-berichte der Gesellscbaft natnrforscbender Freunde zu 



Berlin, im Jahre 1871. From the Society. 

 Berliner entomologische Zeitschrift. 16er Jahrg. 1872, les Vierteljabrs- 



cheft. From the Publishing Society. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereines zur Befordernng des Gartenbaues in den 



K. P. Staaten fur Gartnerei und Pfianzenkunde. Nos. 1-52, 1871. 



From the Society. 

 Monatsbericht der K. Academie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Sept. 



1871-July, 1872. From the Society. 

 Arcbiv fur Naturgescbichte. 37er Jahrg. 1871, 2es Heft, to 1872, les 



Heft, . From the Editor. 

 Zeitschrift der deutschen geologischen Gesellscbaft, XXIII Band, 3 



Heft, to XXIV Band, les Heft. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften, Bands 3 and 4, 1871. 



From tbe Editor. 

 Bonn. Verhandlnngcn des naturhistorischen Vereines der preussischen 



Rbeinlandeuiid Westphalens. 28er Jahr., lund 2 Hafte ; 29er Jahrg., 



lste Hafte, 1872. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 299 



Braunschweig. Archiv fur Anthropologic 5er Band, lstcs-3es Viertel- 



jahresheft, 1871. Purchased. 

 Bremen. XV. Jahresbericlit des schwedeschen heilgymnastischen Insti- 

 tutes in Bremen, 1872. From the Institute. 

 Verein fur die deutsche Nordpolarfahrt, 1870. From Dr. Finsch. 

 Abhandlungen herausgegeben vom naturwissenschaftlichen Vereine 



zu Bremen, III. Bd. 1 aud 2 Heft., 1872. From the Society. 



Same. I. and II. Bd. and III. Bd., II. Heft. From Dr. Finsch. 



Bri'mn. Verhandlungen des naturforschenden Vereines. IX Band, 1870. 



From the Society. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. Bd. 18 Bg. 11 to Bd. 20 Bg. 3. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereins fur Erdkunde. III. Folge, X. Heft. 



1871. From the Editor. 

 Dresden. Sitzungsberichte der naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis 

 in Dresden. Jahrgang 1871 und 1872. From the Society. 

 Novorum Actorum Academire Csesareoe Leopoldino-Carolinas Ger- 

 manicfe Naturae Curiosorum. Tomi 35, 1870. From the Society. 

 Durkheim. XXVIII. und XXIX. Jahresbericlit der Collichia, eines natur- 

 wissenschaftlichen Vereins der Rheinpfalz, 1871. From the Society. 

 Frankfurt, A. M. Jahresbericlit iiber die Verwaltuug des Medicinalwescns 

 die Krankenanstalten und die o^ffentlichen Gesundheitsverhaeltnisse 

 der Stadt Frankfurt, A. M. XXII. and XIII. Jahrg. 1868-9. From 

 the Society. 

 Nachrichtsblatt der deutschen malakozoologischen Gesellschaft, 18C9, 



1870, 1871. Purchased. 

 Festschrift herausgegeben zur Feier des 50 Jahrigen Jubilaums des 

 naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Freiburg i. B. 1871. From the 

 Society. 

 Abhandlungen herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen naturfor- 

 schenden Gesellschaft. Sen Bandes, les und 2es Heft. From the 

 Society. 

 Bericht iiber die Senckenbergische naturforschende Gesellschaft, 1870- 



71. From the Society. 

 Der zoologischen Garten. XII. Jahrg. 1871, Nos. 7-12; 1872, Nos. 1-6. 

 From the Editor. 

 Gorlitz. Abhandlungen der naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Gorlitz. 



14er Band, 1871. From the Society. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und 

 der Georg- Augusts Universitiits aus dem Jahre, 1871. From the 

 Society. 

 Hannover. Einundzwanzigster Jahresberichte der naturhistorichen Gesell- 

 schaft zu Hannover, 1S70-71. From the Society. 

 Heidelberg. Verhandhmgen des nalurhistorisch-medizinischen Vereins zu 



Heidelberg. Band VI., I. From the Society. 

 Innsbruck. Zeitschrift des Ferdinandeum. 3es Folge ; 6es Heft., 1871. 



From the Society. 

 Konigsberg. Schriften der k. physikalisch-okonomischen Gesellschaft zu 

 Konigsberg. lOer Jahrg., 1869; les und 2e Abth. ; Her Jahrg., 

 1870 ; les und 2e Abth., 1871. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Abhandlungen der mathematisch-physischen Classe der K. sach- 

 sischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. IX. Band ; No. VI. ; X. 

 Band, Nos. I. and II., 1871. From the Society. 

 Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der k. s. Gesellschaft der Wissen- 

 schaften zu Leipzig, 1871. 1-4. From the Society. 

 Jahrbiicher fur wissenschaftliche Botanik herausgegeben von Dr. N. 



Pringsheim. 8er Band ; 3es Heft., 1872. Purchased. 

 Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie. Von Siebold und Kolliker. 

 21er Band, 4es Heft., 1871 to 22 Bd. ; 4es Heft., 1872. Purchased. 




300 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Journal fur Ornithologie, XIX. Jahrg. Heft. 4, 1871, to XX. Jalirg. Heft. 

 4, 1872. Purchased. 



Arcbiv fiir Anatomie, Physiologie, unci wissenschaftliehe Medicin. 

 Jarhg., 1871, Heft. III. to Jalirg. 1872, Heft. II. Purchased. 

 Luxembourg. Publications de l'Institut Royal Grand-Ducal de Luxem- 

 bourg. Tomes XI. and XII. From the Society. 

 Miinchen. Annalen der k. Sternwarte bei Munchen. XVIII. Band. XL 

 Supplement Band zu den Annalen der Munchener Sternwarte. From 

 the Observatory. 



Almanach der k. b. Akademie der Wissenschaften fiir das Jahr. 1871. 

 From the Academy. 



Sitzungsberichtedermathematisch-physikalischen Classederk. b. Aka- 

 demie der Wissenschaften. Heft. I. and II., 1871. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 



Meklcnburg. 25 Jahrg., 1872. From the Society. 

 Offenbach, A. M. Blfter und zwolfter Bericht tiber die Thatigkeit des Offen- 

 bacher Vereins fiir Naturkunde im Vereinsjahre 1869-71. From the 

 Society. 

 Passau, 1871. Neuenter Jahresbericht des naturhistorischen Vereines in 



Passau iiber die Jahre 1869 bis 1870. From the Society. 

 Pest. Ertckezesek a termeszettudomany ok Korebol Kiadja a Magyar 

 Tudomanyos Akademia. 3-7; Szam., 1870, VII.-XL, 1871. From 

 the Society. 



A Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia Ertesitoje Neyedik Evfolyam. 13- 

 18. Szam. Otodik Evfolyam. 1-9. Szam. 1870-71. From the So- 

 ciety. 



Magyar Tudomanyos Akademiai Almanach, 1871. From the Society. 



Termeszettudomanyi Kozlony Havifoly'oirat Kozerdekii ismcretek ter- 

 jesztesere Kiadja A. K. M. Termes. Tarsulat. II. and III. Kotet 

 10 dik-28 dik. Fiizet., 1870-71. From the Society. 

 Regeusburg. Flora oder allgemeine botanische Zeitung herausgegeben 

 von k. b. botan. Gesellschaft in Regensburg, 1871. From the So- 

 ciety. 



Rcpertorium der periodischen botanischen Literatur vom Beginn des 

 Jahres 1864. An VII. Jahrg. 1870. From the same Society. 



Correspondenz-Blatt des zoologisch-mineralogischen Vereines in Re- 

 geusburg, 1871. 2oer Jahrg. From the Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben von dem entomologis- 



chen Vereine zu Stettin. 32er Jahrg. 1871. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Wiirtembergische naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 27er 

 Jahrg. 1871. From the Society. 



Neucs Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palrcontologie. Jahrg. 

 1871, 6es Heft, to 1872, 2es Heft. From the Editor. 

 Vienna. Mittheilungen der anthropologischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 1 

 Band, Nos. 12, 13, and 14. Sept., Oct., and Nov., 1871. From the 

 Society. 



Denkschriften der k. Akademie, der "Wissenschaften, mathem-natunv. 

 Classe, Einunddreissigster Band. From the Society. 



Sitzungberichte der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathematisch- 

 naturwissenschaftliche Classe. 62 Band ; le AbtJi. III. V. Heft. 

 2e Abth, IV. and V. Heft. ; 63 Band ; le and 2e Abth ; L V. Heft ; 

 1870-71 ; 64 Band, lste Abth, I. V ; Heft. 2e Abth, I. V. 1871. 

 From the Society. 



Verhandlungen der k. k. zoolo2'isch. -botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 

 Jahrg. 1871. XXI. Band. From the Society. 



Verhandlungen der k. k. geologischen Reichsanstalt. No. 1, 1871, to 

 No. 7, 1872. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 301 



Jahrbuch of the same. XXI. Band No. 2 to XXII. Band No 2. From 

 the Society. 



Jahrbiicher der k. k. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie nnd Erdmag- 

 netismus. Neue Folge. VI. Band. Jahrg. 18G9. From the Di- 

 rectors. 

 Wurzburg. Verhandluno-cn der phvsikal-medicinische Gesellschaft in 

 Wurzburg. Nene Folge. 11 Band. 3 Heft, to III. Bd. ; 2 Heft. 

 Froni the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Basel. Verhandlungen der naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. 5er 



Theil, 3es Heft., 1871. From the Society. 

 Mittheilungen der naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Bern aus dem 



Jahre 1870. No. 711-744. 1871. From the Society. 

 Erlangen. Sitzungberichte der physiealisch-medicinischen Societiit zu 



Erlangen. 3 Heft., 1871. From the Society. 

 Geneva. Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Natnrelle de 



Geneve. Tome XXI., Ire Partie. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin mensuel des Observations Meteorologiques de Lau- 

 sanne. Faites au Predu-Marche, Maison Forney par J. Marguet. 



From the Author. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles, 2e Serie. Vol. 



XI. Nos. 06 and 67, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. 



Tome IX., Premier Cahier, 1871. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht uber die Thiitigkeit der St. Gallischen naturwissen- 



schaftlichen Gesellschaft wiihrend des Vereins Jahres 1870-71. From 



the Society. 

 Zurich. Vierteljahrschrift der naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Zurich. 



15cr Jabrg. les-4es Heft., 1870. From the. Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Annuaire de l'Academie Royale des Sciences, Belles-lettres, 



et Beaux-Arts de Belgique, 1871. 37me Annee. 

 Memoires of the same. Tome 38. 



Memoires Couronnes of the same. Tomes 35 and 36. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Bulletins of the same. 39me Annee 2me Serie. Tomes 29, 30, and 



31, 1870-71. From the Society. 

 Bulletins de la Societe Malacologique de Belgique. Tome VII. Annee 



1872, Pp. 1-22. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Societe Malacologique de Belgique. Tome V. Annee 



1870. From the Society. 

 Societe Malacologique de Belgique Bulletin des Seances. Pp. XXV. 



to XL. From the Society. 

 Societe Malacologique de Belgique, Proces-Verbal, 1872. Pp. XLI. 



LXXXII. From the Society. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Societe Nationale d' Agriculture, Sciences, et 



Arts d' Angers. Tomes 12, 13, and Tome 14, No. 1, 1871. From the 



Society. 

 Same. Tome 4me. Nos. 2 and 3. Tome 5me. No. 1, 1872. From the 



Society. 

 Memoires de la Societe Academique de Main-et-Loire. Tomes 25 and 



26, 1871. From the Society. 




302 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Auxerre. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Historique Naturelles de 



1'Yonne. Annces 1871 and 1873. 2oe and 26e Volumes. From the 



Society. 

 Cherbourg. Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg. 



Tomes XV. and XVI. From the Society. 

 Bordeaux. Actes de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et 



Arts de Bordeaux. 3e Serie. 31e Annee, 1869 ; 1870, 4e trim. 



From the Society. 

 Actes de la Societe Linneenne de Bordeaux. Tomes 18 to 27, 1852-72. 



From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bor- 

 deaux. Tome VII., 2me Cahier, 1872. From the Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires dela Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et 



Arts d'Orleans. 2me Serie. Tome XIII., No. 4 to Tome. XIV., Xos. 



1 and 2, 1870-71. From the Society. 

 Paris. Bulletin mensuelde la Societe d'Acclimatation. 2me Serie. Tome 



VIII., No 11, 1871, to Tome IX., No. 10, 1872. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France. Tomel8me, 1871. Revue 



Bibliographique A. E., Comptes Rendus des Seances, 2, 3, and 4. 



From the Society. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie. Tome XI. , No. 4, to Tome XII. , 



No. 4. From the Editor. 

 Journal de Zoologie. Par M. Paul Gervais. Tomeler, Nos. 1-4, 1872. 



Purchased. 

 Annales de la Societe Entomologique de France. 4me Serie. Tome 



lOme, 1870. Partie Supplemcntaire. Familledes Euenemides. rune 



Serie. Tome Premier, 1871. From the Society. 

 Annales des Mines. Gme Serie. Tome XIX., 3e Livr. Tome XX., 



4e Livr., 1871. 7me Serie. Tome I., Ire Livr. de 1872. From the 



Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 5me Serie. Zoologie, Tome XV., 



No. 2 to Tome XVI. , No. G. Botanique, Tome XIV., No. 1, to 



Tome XV., No. 1. Purchased. 

 Nouvelles Archives du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Paris. Tome 



VI. Cine Annee, 1870. Purchased. 

 Revue et Magasin de Zoologie recueil mensuel par M. F. E. Guerin, 



Meneville, 1870. Nos. 7-12. From the Editor. 

 Toulouse. Memoires de l'Academie des Sciences, Inscriptions, et Belles- 

 Lettres de Toulouse. 7me Serie. Tomes II. and III. From the 



Society. 



PORTUGAL. 



Lisbon. Journal de Sciencias Mathematicas Physicas e Naturaes publicado 

 sob os auspicios da Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa. No. IX., 

 1870. From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rcndiconto delle Sessioni dell' Accademia dclle Scienze dell' 

 " Istituto di Bologna. Anno Accademico, 1809-70, 1870-71. From 



the Society. 

 Memorie dell' Accademia delle Scienze dell' Istitute di Bologna. 



Serie II. Tome IX., Fasc. 2 and 4. Tome X., Serie III. Tome 



I., Fasc. I. From the Society. 

 Catania. Atti dell' Accademia Cinema di Scienze Naturali. Serie Terza. 



Tomo V.. 1871. From the Society. 

 Firenze. R. Coniitato Geologico d'ltalia. Bollcttino. Nos. 5 et G, 1872. 



From the Survey. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 303 



Torino. Memorie della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torina. Serie Se- 



conda. Tomos 25 and 26, 1871. From the Society. 

 Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Vols. VI. and VII. 



From the Society 

 Rolletino Meteoro'logieo ed Astronomica del Regio Osservatoiio dell 



Universita di Torino. Anno V. and VI., 1871 and 1872. From the 



Observatory. 

 Venezia, 18G9-70. Atti dell R, Istitnto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti 



dal Nov., 18G9 all' Ottobre, 1870. Tomo 15. Serie Terza, Disp. 



Seconda. From the Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Belfast. Third and Fourth Annual Report of the Flax Extension Associa- 

 tion. 1870-71. From the Society. 



Flax Extension Association. Instructions for the Culture and Prepa- 

 ration of Flax in Ireland. From the Society. 

 Dublin. The Journal of theRo3^al Dublin Society. No. 40. Parts 3 and 



4, 1871. From the Society. 

 Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Session 

 1870-71. From the Society. 



Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. XXVI. Parts 

 II. and III. For the Sessions 1870-71. From the Society. 



Transactions and Proceedings of the Botanical Society. Vol. XI. 

 Part 1, 1872. From the Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liver- 

 pool during the Sixtieth Session, 1870-71. No. 25. 1871. From 

 the Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. The Annual Reports for 1870, 

 1871, 1872. From the Society. 



Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society 

 of the West Riding of "Yorkshire. 1870, 1871, 1872. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 London. The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Second Series. Nos. 

 8-10. Purchased. 



The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. 

 Vol. XIX. 1871. From the Society. 



Journal of the Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Vol. III., Part 

 1. New Series. 1870-71. From the Society. 



Journal of the Chemical Society. Aug., 1871, to July, 1872. From 

 the Society. 



Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 76-84. From 

 the Publishers. 



The Food Journal. Nos. 24-35. From the Editor. 



The Ibis. 3d Series. Vol. II., Nos. 5-7. 1872. From the Wilson 

 Fund. 



The Transactions of the Linnean Society. Vol. XXVII. , Part 3 to 

 Vol. XXVIII. , No. 2. From the Society. 



Proceedings of the Linnean Society of London. Session 1871-72. Pp. 

 1-112. Additions to the Library and List of the same. From the 

 Society. 



The Journal of the Linnean Society. Zoology. Vol. XL, Nos. 49- 

 54. Botany. Vol. XL., Nos. 54-50. Vol. XIII., Nos. 65-67. From 

 the Society.' 



The Intellectual Observer. Vols. I. -XII. 1862-68. Purchased. 



Report of the Forty-first Meeting of the British Association for the 

 Advancement of 'Science. 1871. Purchased. 



The Zoological Record for 1870. Purchased. 




304 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. XXVIII. Nos. 



1-4. From the Society. 

 Publications of the Palreontological Society. 1870 and 1871. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 The Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Edited by Barthold 



Seeman. Vols. 1-7, and No. 108, Dec, 1871. Purchased. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. XV., No. 1 to 



Vol. XVI., No. 2. 

 Journal of the same. Vol. XL. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Nos. 124-129. Vol. XIX. From 



the Society. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. Vol. CLX., Part II. 



Vol. CLXI., Part I. London, 1870-71. From the Society v 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Vol. VII. , No. 38, to 



Vol. X., No. 59. Purchased. 

 The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and 



Journal of Science. 4th Series, No. 271 to No. 294. Feb. to Dec, 



1871. Purchased. 



Notes and Queries. Parts 38-58. 4th Series. From the Editor. 



Nature. No. 114. Vol. V. From the Editor. 



The Monthly Microscopical Journal. Vols. I. -VII., 1871-72. From 



the Microscopical and Biological Section. 

 Transactions of the Zoological Society of London. Vol. VIII. , Part 2. 



1872. From the Society. 



Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society of 



London for the year 1871, Parts 2 and 3. 1872, Part 1, January to 



March. From the Society. 

 Catalogue of the Library of the same. 1872. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. New Series. Vol. V., 



Part 2, 1871. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. VI., Parts 



3 and 4. 1871. From the Society. 



UNITED STATES AND CANADA. 



Albany. Fifty-fourth Annual Report of the Trustees of the New York 



State Library. 1872. From the New York State Library. 

 Proceedings of the Albany Institute. Vol. I., Part 2. 1872. From 



the Society. 

 Baltimore. Fifth Annual Report of the Provost to the Trustees of the 



Peabody Institute of the City of Baltimore. June 6, 1872. From 



the Institute. 

 Boston. Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. II., 



Part 1, No. 3 and Vol. II., Part 2, Nos. 1, 2, 3. From the Society. 

 Fifth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Museum of Ameri- 

 can Archaeology and Ethnology. From the Trustees. 

 Annual Report of the Boston Society of Natural History. 1871-72. 



From the Society. 

 Proceedings of Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. XIV. , pp. 113 



et seq. From the Society. 

 Cambridge. Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative 



Zoology for 1871. From the Directors. 

 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 



VIIL, pp. 137-408. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. New Series. 



Vol. X., Part 1, 18G8. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 



Science from I860 to 1870. Purchased. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 305 



Harrisburg. Second Annual Report of the Board of Commissioners of 



Public Charities of the State of Pennsylvania. 1872. From the 



Commissioners. 

 Leavenworth, 1872. Leavenworth Medical Herald. Vol. V., Nos. 8- 



12. From the Editor. 

 London. The Canadian Entomologist. Vol. III. to Vol. IV., No. 11. 



From the Society. 

 Montreal. Fifth Annual Report of the Montreal Sanitary Association. 



1871. From the Society. 

 The Canadian Naturalist. New Series. Vol. VI., Nos. 2 and 4, 1872. 



From the Society. 

 Morgantown. Proceedings of the West Virginia Historical Society. Vol. 



I., Part 1, 1871. From Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

 New Haven. Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and 



Sciences., Vol. II. Part 1, 1870. From the Society. 

 The American Journal of Science and Arts. 3d Series. Vol. III., 



No. 13, to Vol. IV., No. 24. From the Editor. 

 New York. Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. 



Vol. X., Nos. 4-5, 1871. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Lyceum of Natural History in the City of New 



York. 1870. Vol. I., pp. 1-23G. From the Society. 

 The American Chemist. Vol. II., No. 1, to Vol. III., No. 5. From 



the Editor. 

 New York Medical Journal. Vol. XV., No. 1, to Vol. XVI., No. 6. 



From the Editor. 

 Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Vol. II., No. 7, to Vol. III., 



No. 11. From Thomas Meehan. 

 The Popular Science Monthly. Nos. 7-9. From the Editor. 

 Journal of the Anthropological Institute of New York. Vol. I., No. 1, 



1871-72. From the Society. 

 Philadelphia, Fifty-fifth Annual Report on the state of the Asylum for the 



Relief of Persons deprived of the Use of their Reason. From the 



Trustees. 

 The American Journal of Medical Sciences. Nos. 125-128. New 



Series. Jan., 1872. From the Editor. 

 The Medical News and Library. Vol. XXX. Nos. 352-358. From 



the Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. XIV. Nos. 1-12. Jan., 1872. From 



the Editor. 

 The Penn Monthly. Nos. 25-36. From the Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. Vol. XIV., Nos. 1-12, 1872. From the Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. 4th Series, Vol. II., Nos. 1-12. 



From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at the Nine- 

 teenth Annual Meeting held in St. Louis, Missouri, Sept., 1871. 



From John M. Maisch. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XII., Nos. 



87-88. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XIV. 



Part 3, 1871. From the Society. 

 American Journal of Conchology. Vol. VII., Nos. 3 and 4. From 



the Publication Committee. 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Part 1, 1871. Parts 1 and 2, 1872. From the Publication Committee. 

 The Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. XCIIL, No. 553, to 3d 



Series, No. 6. From the Institute. 

 Transactions of the American Entomological Society. Vol. III., Nos. 



3 and 4. Vol. IV., Nos. 1 and 2, 1872. From the Society. 




306 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



American Association for the Cure of Inebriates. Proceedings of the 

 Second Meeting. 1872. From the Association. 

 Quebec. Le Naturaliste Canadien. Tome I. III. Tome IV., Nos. 1-10. 

 From the Editor. 

 Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. New 

 Series. Part 9. From the Society. 

 Salem. Fourth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Academy 

 of Science for the year 1871. From the Society. 

 Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Vol. III., No. 8, to Vol. IV., No. 7. 



From the Society.- 

 The American Naturalist. Vol. V., No. 12, to Vol. VI., No. 12. From 

 the Editor. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences. Vol. 



IV., Part IV., 1871. ~ From the Society. 

 Toronto. Report of the Entomological Society of the Province of Ontario 

 for the year 1871. From the Society. 

 The Canadian Journal. Vol. XIII., Nos. 3 and 4. July, 1872. From 

 the Editor. 

 Trenton. Seventh Annual Report of the Rutgers Scientific School for the 



year 1871. From Geo. H. Cook. 

 "Washington. Monthly Report of the Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, 

 Treasury Department. December, 1871, to May, 1872. From the 

 Treasury Department. 

 Ninth Census of the United States. Agriculture, 1872. From the 



Department of the Interior. 

 Annual Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the State of the 

 Finances for the year 1871. From the Secretary. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. October 

 21, 1871, and April 23, 1872. From the Society. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Santiago. Anales de la Universidad de Chile. La Seccion Memorios Cien- 

 tificas Literarias. Jan. to Dec, 1870. From the University. 



ASIA. 



Calcutta. Records of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. IV. Parts 3 



and 4, 1871. From the Survey. 

 Proceedings of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Nos. 3-12, 1871. From 



Isaac Lea. 

 Journal of the same. Part 1, Nos. 1 and 2 ; Part 2, Nos. 1 and 2, 1871. 



From Isaac Lea. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC AVORKS. 



Agassiz, Louis. A Letter concerning Deep-sea Dredging. Addressed to 

 Prof. Benj. Peirce. From the Author. 



Agassiz, Alexander. Application of Photography to Illustrations of Natu- 

 ral History. With two figures printed by the Albert and Woodbury 

 Process. From the Author. 



Allman, Jas. A Monograph of the Gymnoblastic or Tubularian Hydroids. 

 Conclusion of Part 1 and Part 2. Containing descriptions of Genera 

 and Species of the Gymnoblastea. London, 1872. Purchased. 



Animadversiones Botanicne. Two Pamphlets. From Imp. Bot. Garden of 

 St. Petersburg. 



Annals of the Dudley Observatory. Vol. II. Albany, 1871. From the 

 New York State Library. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 307 



Annual Report of the State Geologist of New Jersey for the year 1871. 



From G. H. Cook. 

 Annual Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the state of the Finances 



for the year 1871. Washington, 1871. From the Secretary. 

 Baillon, II. the Natural History of Plants. Translated by Marcus M. 



Hartog. Vol. I. London, 1871. Purchased. 

 Bent, Silas. Thermal Paths to the Pole. St. Louis, 1872. From the 



Author. 

 Barrande, Joachim. Distribution des Cephalopodes dans les Contrees Si- 

 luriennes. Prague, 1870. From the Author. 

 Trilobites. Prague, 1871. From the Author. 

 Defence des Colonies. No. 4. Prague, 1870. From the Author. 

 Blanford, W. T. Observations on the Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia. 

 London, 1870. From the Indian Government through the Geological 

 Survey of India. 

 Bleeker, P. Atlas Ichthyologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises. 



Livr. XXV. Amsterdam, 1872. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Brady, Stewardson, Geo. Contributions to the Study of the Entomostraca. 

 VII. A List of the Non-Parasitic Marine Copepoda of the North- 

 East Coast of England. From the Author. 

 Burnett, Chas. H. An Investigation concerning the Mechanism of the 

 Ossicles of Hearing, and the Membrane of the Round Window. 

 From the Author. 

 Catalogue of the Library of the Zoological Society of London. 1872. From 



the Society. 

 Catalogue raisonne de Coquilles et autres Curiosites Naturelles. Paris, 



173G. From S. S. Haldeman. 

 Catalogue of the New York State Library, 1872. Subject Index of the 



General Library. Albany, 1872. From the Library. 

 Catalogus Systematicus Bibliothecae Horti Imperialis Botanici Petropolitani. 



1852. From Imp. Bot. Garden of St. Petersburg. 

 Catalogue de la Bibliothequede la Societe Imperiale des Sciences Naturelles 



de Cherbourg. From the Society. 

 Catalogue of Scientific Papers compiled and published by the Royal Society 



of London. Vol. V. London, 1871. From the'Society." 

 Catalogue of Books added to the Library of Congress from Dec. 1st, 18G9, 



to Dec. 1st, 1870. Washington, 1871. From the Librarian. 

 Chandler, C. F. Lecture on Water. Albany, 1871. From the Author. 

 Chapman, II. C. Evolution of Life. Philadelphia, 1873. From the 



Author. 



Cobden Club Essays. Second Series. 1871-72. Sec. Ed. London, 1872. 



Cope, E. D. On a new Vertebrate Genus from the northern part of the 



Tertiary Basin of Green River. Description of new extinct reptiles 



from the Upper Green River Eocene Basin, AVyoming. From the 



Author. 



Notices of new Vertebrata from the Upper Waters of Bitter Creek, 



Wyoming Territory. From the Author. 

 On the Families of Fishes of the Cretaceous formation of Kansas. From 



the Author. 

 On a new Testudinate from the Chalk of Kansas. From the Author. 

 On two new Ornithosaurians from Kansas. From the Author. 

 Sketch of the Zoology of Pennsylvania. Folio. From the Author. 

 Catalogue of the Pythonomorpha found in the Cretaceous Strata of 



Kansas. From the Author. 

 On the Method of Creation of Organic Types. From the Author. 

 Descriptions of new Vertebrata from the Bridger Group of the Eocene. 

 Second and Third account of the same. 

 On the Tertiary Coral and Fossils of Osino, Nevada. 




308 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



On the existence of Dinosauria in the Transition Beds of "Wyoming. 

 Telegraphic Description of new Species of Vertebrates, dated Aug. 17, 



1870. 

 Coste, M. Instructions pratiques sur la Pisciculture. Paris, 1853. From 



Dr. H. C. Wood. 

 Cox, E. T. Second Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, made 



during the year 1870. Indianapolis, 1871. From G. W. Try on, Jr. 

 Dull, W. II. Description of three new Species of Crustacea, Parasitic on 



the Cetacea of Northwest Coast of America. From the Author. 

 Preliminary Description of new Species of Mollusks from the Northern 



Coast of America. From the Author. 

 Dana, Jas. D. Corals and Coral Islands. New York, 1872. Purchased. 

 Notice of the address of T. Sterry Hunt before the American Associa- 

 tion at Indianapolis. From the Author. 

 On the Address before the American Association of Prof. T. Sterry 



Hunt. No 2. From the Author. 

 Dana, Edw. S. On the Datolite from Bergen Hill, New Jersey. From the 



Author. 

 Darwin, Chas. The Variations of Animals and Plants under domestication. 



Vols. I. and II. London, 18G8. Purchased. 

 Dawssn, J. W. Notes on the Post-Pliocene Geology of Canada. Montreal, 



1872. From the Author. 

 Report of the Geological Structure and Mineral Resources of Prince 



Edward's Island. Montreal, 1871. From J. W. Dawson. 

 Day, Francis. The Fishes of Malabar. 4to, London, 1865. Purchased. 

 Die Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarfahrt. Bremen, 1870. From Dr. Finsch. 

 Dippel, Leopold. Das Mikroskop und seine Anwendung. Zweiter Theile 



2e Abth. Braunschweig, 1872. Purchased. 

 Dubois, Ch. F. Les Oiseaux de 1' Europe. 245-252me livr. From Wilson 



Fund. 

 Dubrueil, E. Etude Anatomique et Histologique sur l'appareil Genera- 



teur du genre Helix. Montpelier, 1871. Purchased. 

 Duff, Grant. On the Teachings of Richard Cobden. Dec. 20, 1871. From 



the Cobden Club. 

 Dunkcr and Zittel. Palseontographica. 19er Band, 7c Lief; 20er Band. 2 



Abth. le and 4e Lief; 21 Baud, lste, 3-5e Lief. Cassel, 1871-72. 



From Wilson Fund. 

 Edwards, II. M. Lecons sur la Physiologic Tome lOme, Ire Partie. 



Paris, 1872. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Edwards. M. A. M. Recherches anatomique et palcontologique pour servir 



a Thistoire des Oiseaux Fossiles de la France. Livr. 23-42. Paris, 



1870. 

 Eichwald, Edward. Geognostisch-Pala?ontologische Bemerkungen ubcr 



die Halbinsel Mangischlak und die Aleutischen Inseln. St. Peters- 

 burg, 1871. From the Author. 

 Ennis, Jacob. The Meteors and their long-enduring Trails. 



The discovery of the Force which in the beginning put all the Heavens 



and Earth in motion. From the Author. 

 The four Great Eras in Modern Astronomy. From the Author. 

 Enumeratio Plantarum Novarum a CI. Schrenk Lectarum. 1841-42. From 



Imp. Bot. Garden of St. Petersburg. 

 Erlenmayer, Emil. Die Aufgabe des ehemischen Unterrichts gegeniibcr 



den Anforderungen der Wissenschaft und Technik. Muuchen, 1871. 



From the Author. 

 Fayrer, J. The Thanatophidia of India, being a Description of the 



Venomous Snakes of the Indian Peninsula. Folio. London, 1872. 



From the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 309 



Fischer, M. M. P., and H. Crosse. Mission Scientiflque an Mexique et 

 dans l'Amerique Centrale. Septieme Partie. Etudes sur les Mol- 

 lusques terrestres et fluviatiles. Paris, 1872. From G. W. Tryon, 

 Jr. 

 Flint, Austin. The Physiology of Man ; designed to represent the existing 

 state of Physiological Science as applied to the functions of the Human 

 Body. Vol. III. Nutrition, Secretions, Movements. Vol. IV. 

 Nervous System. N. Y., 1871-72. Purchased. 

 Forney, J. W. What I saw in Texas. From Thos. Median. 

 Frauenfeld, G. R. von. Die Pflege der Jungen bei Thieren. Wien, 1871. 

 From the Author. 

 Die Wirbelthicrfauna Neiderosterreichs. From the Author. 

 Die Grundlagen des Vogelschutzgesetzes. From the Author. 

 Der Vogelschutz. From the Author. 

 Fries, E. Icoues Selectre Hymenomycetum nondum delineatorum L- 



VI. Holmiaj, 1807. From Royal Swedish Academy of Science. 

 Gegenbauer, Carl. Untersucliungen zur vergleichenden Anatomy der 

 Wirbelthiere. Erstes Heft. Carpus und Tarsus. Leipzig, 18G4. 

 Purchased. 

 Genth, F. A. Mineral Resources of North Carolina. Philadelphia, 1871. 



From the Author. 

 Giebel, C. J. Thesaurus Ornithologies. 2er Halbband. Leipzig, 1872. 



Purchased. 

 Gissler, Chas. F. Contributions to the Fauna of the New York Croton 



water. New York, 1872. 

 Gould, J. The Birds of Great Britain. Parts 19 and 20. From the Wilson 

 Fund. 

 The Birds of Asia. Part 23. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Gozzadini, Jean. Renseignements sur une Ancienne Necropole a Marza- 

 botto pres de Bologne. Bologne, 1871. From the Author. 

 La Necropole de Villanova. Bologne, 1870. From the Author. 

 Hall, Jas. Reply to a "Note on Priority." From the Author. 



Descriptions of new Species of Fossils from the Devonian Rocks of 

 Iowa with a Preliminary Note on the Formations. Albany, 1872. 

 From the Author. 

 Notes on some new or imperfectly known forms among the Braehio- 



poda. From the Author. 

 Descriptions of new Species of Fossils from the vicinity of Louisville, 

 Ky., and the Falls of the Ohio. From the Author. 

 Hanley, Sylvanus, and Wm. Theobald. Conchologia Indica. Parts 3 and 



4. London. 

 Hayden, F. V. Department of the Interior, U. S. Geological Survey of 

 the Territories, Profiles, Sections, and other Illustrations designed to 

 accompany the final Report of the Chief Geologist of the Survey. 

 New York, 1872. From F. V. Hayden. 

 Final Report of the U. S. Geological Survey of Nebraska and portions 

 of the adjacent Territories. Washington, 1872. From the Author. 

 Preliminary Report of the U. S. Geological Survey of Montana. 



Washington, 1872. From the Author. 

 The Hot Springs and Geysers of the Yellowstone and Fire Hole 



Rivers. From the Author. 

 Department, of the Interior. Map of lower Geyser Basin, Fire Hole 

 River, Wyoming Territory, 1871. From the Department of the In- 

 terior. 

 Hewitson, W. C. Exotic Butterflies. Part 81. London. From Wilson 



Fund. 

 Hildago, J. G. Moluscos Marinos de Espana, Portugal y las Baleares 

 Entrega 1-4. Purchased. 




310 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Hitchcock, C. II. Report of the Geological Survey of the State of New 



Hampshire, showing its progress during the years 1870 and 1871. 



Nashua, 1871. From the Author. 

 Houghton, Samuel. The principle of least Action in Nature illustrated 



by Animal Mechanics. London, 1871. From the Author. 

 On some Elementary Principles in Animal Mechanics. No. 4. 

 On the Constituent Minerals of the Granite of Scotland as compared 



with those of Donegal. From the Author. 

 Houston, Edw. J. On the Nature of AVhite Light. From the Author. 

 Huxley, Thos. H. A Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals. 



London, 1871. Purchased. 

 Hyatt, A. The non-reversionary series of the Liparoceratidse, and Remarks 



upon the series of the allied family Dactyloidse. From the Author. 

 On reversions among the Ammonites. From the Author. 

 Illustrated Catalogue of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard 



College. Nos. 4, 5, and 6. Cambridge, 1871. From the Museum. 

 Jan, M. le, Prof. Iconographie generale des Ophidiens. 37me, 39me-41me 



Livr., 1872. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Jardin de St. Peterbourg. 184G. Folio. From Imp. Bot. Garden of St. 



Petersburg. 

 Kerhallet, Ch. Philippe de. General Examination of the Indian Ocean. 



Washington, 1870. 

 General Examination of the Pacific Ocean. New York, 1867. 

 General Examination of the Atlantic Ocean. Washington, 1870. From 



Capt, R. H. Wyman, U. S. N. 

 Kinahan, J. H., and M. H. Close. The General Glaciation of Jar-Con- 



naught and its neighborhood in the counties of Galway and Mayo. 



Dublin, 1872. From the Authors. 

 Knorr, E. R. Papers on the Eastern and Northern Extensions of the Gulf 



Stream. Translated from the German. Washington, 1871. From 



R. II . Wyman. 

 Kobelt, Willi. Catalog der im Europaaschen Faunengebiet lebenden Rin- 



nenconchylien. Cassel, 1871. Purchased. 

 Koninck, L. de. Memoiresde la Paleontologie. Bruxelles, 18")7-58. From 



the Author. 

 Recherches sur les Animaux Fossiles. Premiere Partie. Liege, 1847. 



From the Author. 

 Nouvelles Recherches sur les Animaux Fossiles du Terrain Carbonifere 



de la Belgique. Ire Partie. Bruxelles, 1872. From the Author. 

 Kunstler, Gustave. Die Unseren Kulturpflanzen schiidlichen Insekten. 



From the Author. 

 Kiister, H. C. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet von Martini und 



Chemnitz. 3er Band, Heft. 30 ; 7er Band, Heft. 10 ; lOer Band, Heft. 



14-10 ; 17er Band, Heft. 11. Niirnberg, 1872. From the Wilson 



Fund. 

 Lacordaire, Th. Suites a Buffon. Histoire des Insectes. Genera des Cole- 



optera. Tome 9me, 2me Partie. Planches, Livr. 9 and 10. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 La Politique Commerciale de la France ou le Traite de 18G0, avec l'Angle- 



terre. Paris. From the Cobden Club. 

 Laube, Gustav G. Die Echenoiden der Oestereich-Ungarischen Oberin 



Tertiserablagerungen. Wien, 1871. From the Geological Bureau. 

 Lea, Isaac. Rectification of F. A. Conrad's "Synopsis of the Family of 



Naiades of North America." New Edition. Philadelphia, 1872. 



From the Author. 

 Le Condizioni Sociali dei Nostri Tempi. Palermo, 1872. From the Palermo 



Academy. 

 Le Gras, Capt. A. General Examination of the Mediterranean Sea. 



Washington, 1870. From R. H. Wyman, U. S. N. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 311 



Leidy, Jos. On some new Species of Fossil Mammalia from Wyoming. 



From the Author. 

 Remarks on Fossils from Wyoming. From the Author. 

 Linnaeus, C. Uitvocrige en Naturkundigc Beschrijving der vogelen, vol- 



gens het zamenstel. Two vols. Amsterdam. Purchased. 

 Natursystem. Nine vols. Niirnberg, 1 773-70. Purchased. 

 Systeme de la Nature. Four vols. Bruxelles, 1793-9G. Purchased. 

 Systema Naturae, Cura Js. Frid. Gmelin. Four vols, 8vo. Lugduni, 



1789. Purchased. 

 Same. Three vols, in two. Vindobonse, 1767-1770. Purchased. 

 Same. One vol. Holmia?, 1758. Purchased. 



Same. Beckman's Edition. Two vols. Gottinga?, 1772. Purchased. 

 Parti Practica de Botanica Por Don Antonio Palaiv y Verdera. Eight 



vols. Madrid, 1784-88. Purchased. 

 Genera Plantarum. One vol. Holmire, 1764. Two copies. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Same. One vol. Vienna, 1767. Purchased. 

 Ptianzensvstem. Wien, 1786. Purchased. 



Philosophia Botanica. One vol. Stockholmise, 1751. Purchased. 

 Materia Medica. Lipsiae, 1772. Purchased. 

 Mantissa Plantarum. Holmia;, 1767. Purchased. 

 Sj'stema Vegetabilium. Imperfect. Purchased. 

 Same. Vindobonse. 1764. Purchased. 

 Lyman, Benj. Smith. Topography of the Punjab Oil Region. From the 



Author. 

 Mann, B. P. The White Coffee-Leaf Miner. Salem, 1872. From the 



Author. 

 Marsh, O. C. Notice of a new species of Ichthyornis. From the Author. 

 Notice of some remarkable Fossil Mammals. From the Author. 

 Preliminary description of new Tertiary Reptiles. Part 1. From the 



Author. 

 Preliminary description of new Tertiary Reptiles. Part 2. From the 



Author. 

 Discovery of Fossil Quadrumana in the Eocene of Wyoming. From 



the Author. 

 Preliminary description of new Tertiary Mammals. Parts 1-4. From 



the Author. 

 Notice of new Tertiary and Post-Tertiary Birds. Note on Tinoceras 



Anceps. From the Author. 

 On the structure of the skull and limbs in Mosasauroid Reptiles, with 



descriptions of new genera and species. From the Author. 

 Preliminary description of Hesperonis regalia, with notices of four 



other new species of Cretaceous Birds. From the Author. 

 Notice of a new species of Hadrosaurus. From the Author. 

 Discovery of additional remains of Pterosauria, with description of two 



new species. Discovery of the Dermal Scutes of Mosasauroid Rep- 

 tiles. From the Author. 

 Notice of a new species of Tinoceras. From the Author. 

 Martins, Chas. Les Populations Vegetales ; leur origine, etc. Paris, 1872. 



From the Author. 

 La Creation du Monde Organise d'apres les Naturalistes Anglais et 



Allemands. Paris, 1871. From the Author. 

 Mason, Jas. AVood. On Indian and Malayan Telphusidre. Part 1. From 



the Author. 

 Mawe, J. The Voyager's Companion, or Shell Collector's Pilot. 4th Ed. 



London, 1825. From S. S. Haldeman. 

 Mayer, A. M. Acoustical Experiments. From the Author. 




312 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Palreontologia Indica. Cre- 

 taceous Fauna of Southern India. Vol. III., Nos. 9-13. Ser. VI. 

 Ser. VII. Kutch Fossils. Calcutta, 1871. From the Survey. 

 Mercklin, C. von. Anatomisch-physiklogische Notizen iiber einige seltner 

 bliihende Pflanzen der K. Gewachshiiuscr zu St. Petersburg. Riga, 

 1851. From Imp. Bot. Garden of St. Petersburg. 

 Bcobachtungen an dem Prothallium der Farrukrauter. 1850. From 

 Imp. Bot. Garden of St. Petersburg. 

 Moore, Francis. Travels into the Inland parts of Africa. London, 1738. 



From S. S. Haldeman. 

 Morch, O. A. L. Synopsis Molluscorum Marinorum Danise. Kjoben- 

 havn, 1871. From the Author. 

 Faunula Molluscorum Islandise. From the Author. 

 Nagle, I. E. The Sources of the Gulf Stream. New Orleans. From the 



Author. 

 Newberry, J. S. Geological Survey of Ohio. Report of progress in 1870. 



Columbus, 1871. With maps. From the Author. 

 Nicholson, Alleyne H. A Manual of Zoology for the use of Students. 



New York, 1872. Purchased. 

 Nine Official Reports from the Ministers of War, Finance, Marine, Interior, 



etc., of Chili. From the Chilian Government. 

 Nowicki, Max. Ueber die Weizenverwlisterin. Chloropstseniopus Meig. 



Wein, 1871. From the Author. 

 Nyst, M., and Le Hon. Descriptions Succinctes de quelques nouvelles 

 especes Animales et Vegetales fossiles des environs de Bruxelles. 

 From the Author. 

 Nyst, M. Note sur une Coquille fossile, appartenant au genre Modiola. 

 From the Author. 

 Notice sur quelques recherches Paleontologiques faites aux environs 



d' An vers. From the Author. 

 Descriptions succincte d'un nouveau Mollusque Marin des Rives de 



l'Escant. From the Author. 

 Five Reports to the Royal Academy of Belgium. From the Author. 

 Notice sur un nouveau gite de fossiles. From the Author. 

 Notice sur quelques Bulimes nouveaux ou peu Connus. From the 



Author. 

 Notice sur une Coquille du Genre Cyrene. From the Author 

 Notice sur deux Coquilles nouvelles du Genre Crassatelle. From the 



Author. 

 Sur les animaux Inferieurs fossiles de la province d'Anvers. From 



the Author. 

 Notice sur une nouvelle espece de Pecten. From the Author. 

 Observations des Phenomenes Periodiques pendant les Annees 1867 et 18C8. 



From the Belgian Academy. 

 Owen, Prof. On Longevity. London, 1872. From the Author. 

 Paleontologie Francaise. Terrain Jurassique. Livrs. 1-7, 20 and 21. 



Paris. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Palladis Chymicse Arcana detecta sive Mineralogia Naturalis et Artiflcialis. 



Secouda Editio. Geneva;, 1673. From S. S. Haldeman. 

 Peters, W. C. H., J. V. Cams, C. E. A. Gerstascker. Handbuch der Zo- 



ologie. 2er Band. Leipzig, 1863. Purchased. 

 Phillips, John. Geology of Oxford and the Valley of the Thames. Ox- 

 ford, 1871. Purchased. 

 Pfeiffer, L. Novitates Conchologia, 36 and 37 Leif, and Supplements 3 and 



4. Casscl. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Pfeiffer, L. Synonymia Botanica locupletessima generum, sectionum vel 

 subgenerum ad finem Anni 1858, promulgatorum. Kassel, 1871. 

 From Wilson Fund. 

 Nomenclator botanicus. Vol.1. Fasc. I. Cassellis, 1871. Purchased. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 313 



Poey, Felipe. Monographic des Poissons de Cuba, compris dans la sous 



faraille des Sparini. Salem, 1872. From the Author. 

 Poor, Ben. Perley. Congressional Directory, compiled for the use of 



Congress. Washington, 1872. From the Author. 

 Porcher, F. P. President's Address before the South Carolina Medical 



Association. Charleston, 1872. From the Author. 

 Resources of the Southern Fields and Forests. New Edition. Charles- 

 ton, 1869. 

 Pratt, Anne. The FloAvering Plants, Grasses, Sedges, and Ferns of Great 



Britain, and their x\llies, the Club Mosses, Pepperworts, and Horse- 

 tails. Vols I. to VI. 8mo, London. Purchased. 

 Pratt, J. H. A Treatise on Attractions. Laplace's Functions and the 



Figure of the Earth. 4th Edition. London, 1871. From the Author. 

 Preliminary Report on the Dredging in Lake Superior. From General 



C. B. Comstock. 

 Preliminary Notice of the Lamellibranchiate Shells of the Upper Helderberg, 



Hamilton and Chemung Groups, with others from the Waverly 



Sandstone Islands. No. 2. From Prof. Jas. Hall. 

 Preudhomme de Borre, Alf. Description d'une nouvelle espece Africaine 



du genre Varan. From the Author. 

 Consideration sur la classification et la distribution Geographique de la 



Famille des Cicindeletes. From the Author. 

 Note sur le Byrsax (Boletophagus) gibbifer, Wesmael. From the 



Author. 

 Price, Eli K. Some Phases of Modern Philosophy. From the Author. 

 Provancher, L. Flore Canadienne, on description detoutes lesPlantes des 



Forets, Champs, Jardins, et Eaux du Canada. Vols. I. and II. 



Quebec, 1862. Purchased. 

 Quetelet, M. Ad. Orages en Belgique en 1870 et Aurore Boreale des 24 et 



25 Oct., 1870. From the Author. 

 Reeve, Lovell. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 290-295. London, 1871. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Conchologia Systematica. Two vols. 4to, London, 1841. Purchased. 

 Regel, E. Sertum Petropolitanum qua? in Horto Botanicolmperiali Petro- 



politano floruerent. Fasc. III. and IV., folio. From Imp. Bot. 



Garden of St. Petersburg. 

 Revised List of the Vertebrated Animals now or lately living in the Gardens 



of the Zoological Society. 1872. From the Society. 

 Riviere, M. E. Sur les Cavernes a ossements des Baousse-Rousse. From 



the Author through Mr. Dimpfel. 

 Romer, E. Monographic der Molluskengattung Venus. 34 and 35 Lief. 



Cassel. Supplement IV., Lfg. 17-19. From the Wilson Fund. 

 R. Comitato Geologico d'ltalia. Bolletino, No. 7, 1871, to No. 4, 1872. 



Firenze, 1872. From the Geological Survey. 

 Samuels, Edw. A Ornithology and Oology of New England. Boston, 



1868. Purchased. 

 Saussure, Henri de. Memoirespour servir al'histoire NaturelleduMexique 



des Antilles et des Etats-Unis. 4me. Memoire Mantides Americains. 



Tome II., Ire Partie. Geneve, 1871. From the Author. 

 Melanges Orthopterolosjiques. 3me Fasc. et Supplement. Geneva, 



1870-71. From the Author. 

 Notice sur Edward Claparede. Geneve, 1871. From the Author. 

 Schrenk, Alex. Gustave. Reise nach dem Nordosten des Europaischen 



Russlande. Erster und Zweiter Thiel. Dorpat, 1848-54. From 



Imp. Bot. Garden of St. Petersburg. 

 Schriften aus dem ganzen Gebiete der Botanik herausgegeben vonK. Botan- 



ischen Garten. Band II., Heft. I, 1863. From Imp. Bot. Garden 



of St. Petersburg. 



21 




314 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Scrope, G. P. The Geology of the Extinct Volcanoes of Central France. 



2nd Ed. London, 1858. 

 Second Annual Report of the Commissioners of Fisheries of the State of 



New Jersey. Trenton, 1872. From the Commissioners. 

 Second Report of the Commissioners appointed to revise the laws for As- 

 sessment and Collection of Taxes in New York. 1872. From the 



Cobden Club. 

 Second Supplement to the Catalogue of Books in the Mercantile Library of 



the City of New York. Accessions Oct. 1869, to April, 1872. From 



the Library. 

 Semper, Dr. C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. Wissenschaftliche 



Resultate. ler Band, Holothurien, 2er Band. Malacologische Unter- 



suchungen I., II., and III. Heft. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Sheafer, P. W. An Address before the Pardee Scientific Department in 



Lafayette College. Easton, 1872. From the Author. 

 Shepard, Chas. Upham. On the Corundum Region of North Carolina and 



Georgia, with descriptions of two gigantic Crystals of that species. 



From the Author. 

 Catalogue of the Meteoric Collection of. From the Author. 

 Snellen van Vollenhoven, S. C. Laatste Lijst van Nederlandsche Schild- 



vleugelige Insecten. Haarlem, 1870. From the Dutch Society of 



Sciences. 

 Soubeiran, J. L. Rapport sur les Expositions Internationales de Peche de 



Boulogne-sur-mer, Arcachon et du Havre, 1866, 1868. From the 



Author. 

 Pisciculture dans l'Amerique du Nord. From the Author. 

 Souverbie, M. Descriptions d'especes nouvelles de l'Archipelago Cale- 



donien. From the Author. 

 Springmuhl, Ferd. Die Chemische Priifung der Kunstlichen organischen 



Farbstoffe. Berlin, 1873. From the'Author. 

 Statistics of Population. Tables I. to VII. inch Washington, 1872. From 



the Department of the Interior. 

 Statistics of Wealth, Taxation, and Public Indebtedness. From Francis A. 



Walker. 

 Stearns, Robt. E. C. On the Economic Value of certain Australian Forest 



Trees, and their Cultivation in California. From the Author. 

 Steenstrup, J. Meddelelse om nogle vigtige Resultater der menes vundne 



ved de Udgravnimjer, sorn i de sidste Aar ere foretagne i de franske 



Knokkelhuler. Kjohenhavn, 1866. From the Author. 

 Stoliczka, F. Correspondence relative to Deep-Sea Dredging. From Dr. 



Leidy. 

 Stoppani, l'Abbe Antoine. Paleontologie Lombarde. Livrs. 39-48. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Stral, C. Monographic des Chrysomelides de l'Amerique. I. Upsal, 1862. 



From the Author. 

 Strieker. S. llandbuch der lehre von den Geweben desMenschen nnd der 



Thiere. Leipzig, 1871. From Jos. Jeanes. 

 Studien des Gottimjischen Vereins hergmiinnischer Freunde. Vols. I. -VI. 



Gottingen, 1804. Purchased. 

 Thirty Suruical Pamphlets. From Or. A. Amussat. 

 Thomson, C. G. Opuscula Entomologica. Lund. 1870. Fast I. -IV. 



Purchased. 

 Hymenoptera Scandinavia?. Lundne, 1871. Purchased. 

 Thomsen, Julius. Thermochemiske Undersogelser. Kjohenhavn, 1871. 



From the Author. 

 Tri-daily Weather Map. Tri-daily Weather Bulletin. Three Copies. From 



the Chief Signal Officer. W. D. 

 Tschermak. Gnstav. Mineralogische Mittheilungen. Jahrg. 1871. Heft. 



I. Wicn, 1872. From the Editor. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 315 



Von der Deckens, Baron Carl Claus. Reisen in Ost Afrika in den Jaliren 



1859-61. Vols. I., II., III., IV. Leipzig, 1865. Purchased. 

 Verril, A. E. Brief Contributions to Zoology from the Museum of Yale 



College. No. 23. Results of recent Dredging Expeditions on the 



Coast of New England. From the Author. 

 Voorhceve, Mr. J. Catalogue desCoquilles et de Livres. Rotterdam, 1872. 



From Westermann & Co. 

 "Walker, Francis. Notes on the Chalcidse. Parts 6 and 7. London, 1872. 



From the Author. 

 Wallace, John Wm. A Discourse pronounced on the inauguration of the 



new Hall of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. From the 



Author. 

 Watson, Sereno. U. S. Geological Exploration of the 40th Parallel, Botany. 



Washington, 1871. From the Chief of Engineers, IT. S. A. 

 Webb, W. E. Buffalo Land. 8vo, Cincinnati, 1872. From Messrs. Han- 



naford & Co. 

 Westerlund, C. A. Fauna Molluscorum terrestrium et fluviatilium Suecise, 



Norvegiae et Daniae. I. Landmolluskerna. Stockholm. Purchased. 

 Wight, Robt. Incones Plantarum Indira Orientahs, or figures of Indian 



Plants. Vols. I.-VL, 4to. Madras, 1840. From Dr. Chas. Schaffer. 

 Wild, Dr. H. Repertorium fur Meteorologie herausgegeben von der K 



Akademie dor Wissenschaften. From the Society. 

 Wyman, H. R. Winds, Currents, and Navigation of the Gulf of Cadiz. 



Washington, 1870. From the Author. 





INDEX TO GENERA. 



317 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Acanthocottus 214 



Acrodns 163 



Actaeonidea 273 



Actinobolus 252 



Actinoceras 261 



Agaricus 214 



Agathaumas 279 



Alexia 143 



Alveinus 53 



Ammonites 264 



Amnicola 97 



Anchippodus 37 



Anchitherium 37 



Ancylus 97, 110 



Anodonta 98, 109 



Aptenodytes 181, 192 



Arion 148 



Ariolimax 146 



Aristida 218 



Artemia 164, 220 



Aster 46 



Astarte 50, 51, 245 



Asparagus 188 



Assiminea. . , 152 



Baena 162 



Balsenoptera 11, 30 



Bathmodon 38, 279 



Beatricea 261 



Beguina 257 



Biota 33 



Bothrocorbula 274 



Breviarca 55 



Busycon 276 



Bythinella 98 



Cactus 46 



Canis 46 



Calappa 133 



Callitris 34 



Cardita 51 



Carditamera 257 



Cariacus 124 



Carychium 98 



Cebus 40 



2 



Celtis 239 



Cerasus 46 



Chametrachsea 120 



Chama 116 



Chalicotherium 38 



Chameleo 277 



Chamrecyparis 33 



Chelydra 22, 23, 129 



Chelopus 22 



Chettusia 32 



Chisternon : 162 



Chrysanthemum 126 



Cimoliasaurus 128, 236 



Circe 130 



Claudius 22, 23 



Cleome 46 



Clidastes 127, 141 



Codakia 86 



Corbicula 49 



Cottus 213 



Crassatella 50, 130, 249 



Cryptodon 91 



Cucullaea 53 



Cyamium 234 



Cyclocardia 255 



Cyclophis : 40 



Cyclas 85 



Cycladella 232 



Cynocercus 129 



Cylichnella 273 



Dinoceras 241 



Discosaurus 39 



Dolphanes 273 



Donax 216 



Dromia 133 



Ectracheliza 271 



Edestosaurus 141 



Elasmosaurus 128 



Emys 22 



Endoceras 261 



Epigaea 236 



Erisichthe 281 



Eschrichtius 30 




318 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Eudyptes 182, 199 



Euloxa 52 



Exogyra 263 



Felania 95 



Felis 39 



Galeocerdo 265 



Gamasus 9, 138 



Gafrarium 92 



Galeomma 222 



Gastrocbrena 259 



Gelasimus 131 



Glaus 257 



Globiconcha 264 



Glycimeris 216 



Glyphostoma 270 



Gobius 42 



Goniobasis 98, 113 



Gonilia 248 



Goodallia 248 



Gouldia 248 



Hadrosaurus 166 



Helicina Ill 



Helix 99, 110, 136 



Here 84 



Hippopus 121 



Hippurites 263 



Holcodus 141 



Holops 11 



Hyopsodus 20, 37 



Hyrachyus 19, 168 



Icbtbyodectes 280 



Ichthysaurus 43 



Idonearca 54 



Inoceramus 46, 263 



Iopsis 272 



Isognomen 217 



Kellia 230 



Lamna 166 



Lasea 229 



Latiarca 53 



Libocedrus 33 



Lembonax 15 



Lepton 227 



Libratula 223 



Lima 263 



Limax 145 



Limnohyus.' 241 



Linaria 236, 239 



Limnetes 32 



Liodon 141 



Lisinoe 150 



Lophiodon 19 



Loripes 89 



Lucina 82, 130 



Lyinnsea 101, 109 



Macacus 122 



Machairodus 169, 241 



Margaritana 102, 108 



Mastodon 142 



Mecrochelys 23 



Megaptera 11 



Melantho 102, 115 



Metalophodon 279 



Metulella 270 



Microsyops 20, 37 



Miodon 249 



Montacuta 233 



Myiarchus 57 



Myrtea 87 



Mysia 93 



Mytilicardia 255 



Nesera 274 



Neserornya 274 



Negundo 46 



Neithea 263 



Notliarctus 37 



Oligosimns 39 



Omomys 21 



Orthaulax. 272 



Ostrea 46, 263 



Ostrenomia 216 



Otodus 162 



Oxyrhina 162 



Pachythserus 51 



Palseophis 14 



Palaeosyops 168 



Paleinon 1 34 



Pallifera 137 



Parastarte 53 



Patula 135 



Paloeacodon 21 



Pala?osyops 241, 277 



Paulownia 11, 267 



Pericera 131 



Petrolisthes 133 



Philis 89 



Pboladomya 274 



Physa 103, 109 



Pinus 11, 239 



Pisidium 103, 109 



Planorbella 270 



Planorbis 103, 109 



Platemys 162 



Platysternum 22 



Pleuromeris 52, 255 



Pleuroconcha 50 



Pleurotoma 264 



Plesiosaurus 39, 43, 128 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



319 



Plionema 51 



Plochelsea 271 



Polorthus 259, 261 



Pomatiopsis 115 



Populus 46 



Portheus 280 



Proteus 43 



Pteromeris 51 



Ptyckomya 50 



Pulvinites 217 



Pupa 104 



Puppigems 15 



Pycnodus 163 



Pygoscelis 190, 195 



Pythina 232 



Quercus 126, 236 



Rangia 49 



Rhamphosaurus 141 



Rhinosaurus 141 



Rliiuocerus 38 



Rhus 46 



Rhynchotherium 143 



Rubus 126 



Salix 46 



Salmo 163 



Saurocephalus 281 



Scacchia 93 



Scambula 51 



Scintilla 223 



Sequoia 10 



Solemya 258 



Somatogyrus i 104 



Spkaerium 104, 109 



Spheniscus 181, 207 



Stauremys 23, 28 



Succinea 105, 111 



Teredo 259 



Tellimya 228 



Testudo 22, 268 



Thecalia 257 



Thecachampsa 17 



Tbecodouta 230 



Thetis 274 



Thujopsis 36 



Titanotherium 38 



Trionyx 22, 267 



Trogosus 37 



Thuja 33 



Thyreopsis 223 



Trigonoarca 54 



Tylosteus 40 



Trypanosoma 106, 111 



Uintacyon 277 



Uintamastix 109, 241 



Uintatherium 169, 277 



Ungulina 92 



Unio 106, 108, 155 



Valvata 106 



Vanellus 32 



Vermetus 259 



Vertigo 107 



Vetericardia 52 



Vitrina 107 



Vi vipara 107 



Wistaria 239 



Woodia '. . . 84 



Zonites 135 



Zua 107 







GENERAL INDEX. 



321 



GENERAL INDEX 



Allen. H., On the Appendicular Skel- 

 eton of Vertebrates, 42. 



Berthoud, E. L., On Prehistoric Hu- 

 man Art from Wyoming and Colo- 

 rado, 31, 46. 



Bland, Thos. and W. G. Binney, 

 Notes on Lingual Dentition of cer- 

 tain species of North American 

 Land Shells, 124, 135. 



Committees for 1872, 12. 



Conchological Section, Meeting of, 

 275. 



Conrad, T. A., Descriptions and Il- 

 lustrations of Genera of Shells, 37, 

 50 ; Descriptions of a new recent 

 species of Glycimeris from Beau- 

 fort, N. C, and of Miocene Shells 

 of North Carolina, 167, 216. 



Cooper, J. G., On New Californian 

 Pulmonata, 143. 



Cope, E. D., List of the Reptilia of 

 the Eocene Formation of New 

 Jersey, 9, 14 ; On the Cranium of 

 a Hump-backed Whale, 11 ; On a 

 Crocodile of the genus Holops, 11 ; 

 On an extinct Whale from Cali- 

 fornia, 21, 29 ; Synopsis of the 

 species Chelydrinoe, 19, 22 ; On 

 Bathmodon radians, 38 ; Curious 

 Habit of a Snake, 40 ; Intelligence 

 in Monkeys, 40 ; On the Horns of 

 Cariacus virginianus, 123 ; On dif- 

 ferent Schools of Naturalists, 124 ; 

 On a Species of Clidastes, and on 

 Plesiosaurus gulo, Cope, 127 ; On 

 the Structure of Pythonomorpha, 

 140 ; On the Geology of Wyoming, 

 279 ; On an extinct genus of Sauro- 

 dont Fishes, 280. 



Correspondence for 1872, 294. 



Coues, E., Studies of the Tyrannidae, 



Part I ; Revision of the Species of 

 Myiarchus, 41, 56; Material for a 

 Monograph of the Spheniscidae, 

 170. 



Elections for 1872, 292. 



Farnum, John, Announcement of 

 death of, 142. 



Finsch, Dr. O., Remarks on the 

 "Synopsis of the Genus Chettusia 

 (Lobivanellus , ) ; with a description 

 of a new species by J. A. Ogden," 

 31, 32. 



Frazer, John F., Announcement of 

 death of, 243. 



Frazer, Prof. P., Jr.. Notice of sedi- 

 ment in water from Geyser Spring, 

 Saratoga, 41. 



Gabb, Wm. M., Notes on the Genus 

 Polorthus, Gabb, 259 ; Notice of a 

 Collection of Cretaceous Fossils 

 from Chihuahua, Mexico, 263 ; 

 Descriptions of some new Genera 

 of Mollusca, 270. 



Gentry, T. G., On hybridism be- 

 tween Macacus nemestrinus and 

 M. cynomolgus, 122. 



Gerhard, Dr. W. W., Announce- 

 ment of death of, 42. 



Gill, Theo., Note on Cottus Grcen- 

 landicus, Fabr., 213. 



Guillou, Constant, Announcement of 

 death of, 243. 



Kcenig, Geo. A., Remarks on Silver 

 Ore from Colorado, 278. 



Lapham, Hon. J. A., Communica- 

 tion regarding Busycon perversum, 

 276. 



Lea, Isaac, Descriptions of Twenty- 




322 



GENERAL INDEX. 



nine species of Unionidae from the 

 United States, 155. 

 Leidy, Jos., On a Mite in the Ear of 

 the Ox, 9 ; Notice of Corundum, 19 ; 

 Remarks on Fossils from Wyom- 

 ing, 19 ; Remarks on some Extinct 

 Mammals, 37 ; Remarks on some 

 Extinct Vertebrates, 38 ; Note on 

 Gamasus of the Ox, 138 ; Remarks 

 on Mastodon from New Mexico, 

 142; On a new Genus of Extinct 

 Turtles, 1G2 ; On some Remains of 

 Cretaceous Fishes, 163 ; On Arte- 

 mia from Salt Lake, Utah, 164 ; 

 Remarks on Fossil Shark Teeth, 

 166 ; On some new species of Fossil 

 Mammalia from Wyoming, 167 ; 

 Remarks on the Habits of an Ant, 

 218 ; Remarks on Mineral Springs, 

 etc., of Wyoming and Utah, 218 ; 

 Notice of a Corundum Mine, 238 ; 

 Remarks on Fossil Mammalia from 

 Wyoming, 240 ; Remarks on Chip- 

 ped Stones from Wyoming, 242 ; 

 Remarks on the Action of Wind 

 and Sand on Rocks, 243 ; Notice 

 of Donation of Fossils, etc., from 

 Wyoming, 267 ; Remarks on Fos- 

 sils from Wyoming, 277. 

 Lewis, Dr. Jas., Shells of Herkimer 

 and adjacent Counties in the State 

 of New York, 97 ; Shells of Ten- 

 nessee, No. 2, 108. 

 Lyon, Major Sydney S., Announce- 

 ment of death of, 142. 



Meade, Maj. Gen. Geo. G., An- 

 nouncement of death of, 268. 



Meehan, Thos., On the effects of 

 girdling, 10 ; On Numerical Order 

 in the Branching of some Coniferse, 

 31, 33 ; On the Axial Origin of so- 

 called Pine Needles, 123 ; On Inhe- 

 rent Growth Force, and on Varia- 

 tions in Quercus Douglassii, 125 ; 

 On the Flowers of Asparagus, 138 ; 

 On the, Spawn of Agaricus campes- 

 tris, 214 ; On the Agency of In- 

 sects in obstructing Evolution, 218, 

 235 ; On difference in the growth 

 of trees, etc., 239 ; On a cylindrical 

 mass of Agate, 266. 



Moore, John G., Announcement of 

 death of, 142. 



Norris, T., On the Stocking of the 

 Delaware with Salmo salar, 163. 



Officers for 1873, 292. 

 Officers of Conchological Section for 

 1873, 276. 



Parrish, Edward, Announcement of 

 death of, 221. 



Randolph, Sam'l Emlen, Announce- 



jnent of death of, 278. 

 Report of the Botanical Committee, 



287. 

 Report of Conservator of Concholo 



gical Section, 290. 

 Report of Curators, 283. 

 Report of Librarian, 281. 

 Report of Recorder of Biological and 



Microscopical Section, 288. 

 Report of Recording Secretary, 287. 



Announcement 



Notice of some 

 the Island of St. 

 Collected by Dr. 



Stimpson, Dr. Wm., 



of death of, 142. 

 Streets, T. Hale, 



Crustacea from 



Martin, W. I. 



Van Rijgersma, 122, 131. 



Taylor, T. Clarkson, Announcement 

 of death of, 142. 



Try on, Geo. W., Jr., Catalogue and 

 Synomymy of the Family Lu- 

 cinidae, 41, 82 ; Catalogue of the 

 Family Chamidre, 116 ; Catalogue 

 of the Family Chametrachaeidse, 

 120 ; Descriptions of new 'species 

 of Marine Bivalve Mollusca, 130 ; 

 Catalogue and Synonymy of the 

 Family Laseida?, 218, 229 ; Cata- 

 logue and Synonymy of the Family 

 Galeommiclse, 218, 222 ; Catalogue 

 and Synonym v of the Family 

 Leptoiiidse, 218, 227; Catalogue 

 and Synonymy of the Family As- 

 tartidEe, 238, 245 ; Catalogue of the 

 Family Solemyida?, 238, 2."38. 



Willcox, Jos., Remarks on Corun- 

 dum, 266 ; Remarks on Glacial 

 Scorings, 275 ; On some mineral 

 localities in Canada, 276. 



^P^tfCES- 



***Ti 






ADDRESSES 



DELIVERED ON 



LAYING THE CORNER-STONE 



OF 



AN EDIFICE 



FOR THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 

 OF PHILADELPHIA, 



October 30, 1872. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 COLLINS, PRINTER, 705 JAYNE STREET 



1873. 





NEW HALL 



FOE TIIE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



The corner-stone of a new building for the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia was laid, Wednesday, October 30, 1872, 

 at the southeast corner of Race and Nineteenth streets. The dig- 

 ging of the cellar of the north wing was commenced July 9, 1872- 



At half-past eleven o'clock A.M. many of the officers and mem- 

 bers of the society assembled at the hall, northwest corner of 

 Broad and Sansom streets, and walked together to the site of the 

 new building. 



At twelve o'clock, noon, Dr. Ruschenberger, President of the 

 Society and Chairman of the Building Committee, addressed the 

 assembled crowd in substance as follows : 



Ladies and Gentlemen : 



We have assembled to-day to manifest our satisfaction that, 

 through the intelligent liberality of a comparatively few of our 

 fellow citizens, we are enabled to commence the erection, on this 

 spot, of a new building adapted to the purposes of the Academ}' 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The want of a sufficiently 

 capacious edifice has embarrassed, and in some degree retarded, 

 the progress of the institution during manj^ years. The citizens of 

 Philadelphia and of the State of Pennsylvania have a wide-spread 

 interest in the success of this enterprise, although that interest is 

 not universally recognized or admitted. 



The completion of the entire edifice, one wing of which we have 






commenced to build, and the arrangement in it of the collections 

 now belonging to the institution, will be as palpable evidence of 

 educational progress, in one department of the exact sciences, as 

 can be presented ; and it will be so estimated by those who may 

 come here from abroad, in the summer of 1876, to determine our 

 intellectual advancement during the hundred }^ears of our national 

 existence. 



The object of the societ} r is to acquire exact knowledge of all 

 created things, within the narrow limits of man's capability to in- 

 vestigate, and to give freely to the whole world the knowledge 

 which may result from its labors. Its constant effort is to remove 

 the veil which conceals from us the facts of the Creation in order 

 that all may perceive and recognize their wonderful wisdom and 

 beauty. Attainment of precise truth is the extremely difficult 

 task assumed by this, and every society formed for the cultivation 

 of the natural sciences. Yet, under an erroneous and wide-spread 

 notion that the pursuit of truth on this line is in some indefinite 

 manner detrimental to society, it has been and is still opposed by 

 very many intelligent people. 



Truth is a unity, vastly multiple in constitution, but no one of 

 its parts is inconsistent with another. Every absolutely estab- 

 lished truth, be it great or small, must be in perfect accord with 

 all that has been or ever will be ascertained by man. The crite- 

 rion of truth in natural science is its harmony with all that is 

 absolutely known. Every scientific assumption which is not true, 

 however plausible it may appear on presentation, will prove to be 

 discordant. In God's creation there is no conflict or contradic- 

 tion of parts. When accurately interpreted the perfect harmony 

 of their relations will be manifest. The book of nature is entirely 

 free from error; it contains no misstatement of airy kind. Surely 

 such a book may be studied without perverting the mind from 

 truth or establishing a preference for what is not reality. 



Seeking the truths of nature demands an extensive workshop, 

 in which to collect and arrange conveniently for use the numerous 

 implements employed in the work. The implements consist in 

 collections of all those natural objects which have been described 

 properly classified and labelled, ready for study and comparison 

 with those supposed to be new that is, not previously described 

 and also an extensive collection of books in which are recorded the 

 results of investigations made by naturalists in all parts of the 




5 



world ; for he who would add to the stock of knowledge in any 

 department of science needs to be acquainted with what is known 

 already in it, or he may find himself laboring to discover what 

 has been ascertained. A museum and library, chemical apparatus 

 and microscopes, constitute the machinery necessary to facilitate 

 and guide his labors. Such a museum and library and laboratory, 

 in such condition as to be utilized by the naturalists, require 

 large space, and this demand for space increases with the progress 

 of our knowledge. 



The Academy now possesses more than 6000 minerals ; 700 rocks ; 

 65,000 fossils; 70,000 species of plants; 1000 species of zoo- 

 phytes ; 2000 species of crustaceans ; 500 species of myriapods 

 and arachnidans ; 25,000 species of insects ; 20,000 species of 

 shell-bearing mollusks ; 2000 species of fishes ; 800 species of rep- 

 tiles ; 31,000 birds, with the nests of 200, and the eggs of 1500 

 species; 1000 mammals and nearly 900 skeletons and pieces of os- 

 teology. Most of the species are represented by four or five speci- 

 mens, so that, including the archaeological and ethnological cabi- 

 nets, space is required now for the arrangement of not less than 

 400,000 objects, besides the library of more than 22,500 volumes. 



Besides space enough in otir workshop to appropriately arrange 

 this vast number of implements, room is desired for a separate 

 and distinct arrangement of all objects necessaiy to illustrate the 

 natural history of the State of Pennsylvania, as well as a suitable 

 room in which lectures on the natural sciences may be delivered. 



To set up this great museum and library, laboratory and lecture 

 room, we have a plot of ground, measuring little more than an 

 acre, for which we are indebted to the liberality of members of 

 the society and individual citizens. No substantial encourage- 

 ment has been }^et received from the government of this city, nor 

 from that of the State of Pennsylvania. 



In this respect, the policy of some of the State Legislatures is 

 more encouraging. Massachusetts has given liberal aid to the 

 Boston Society of Natural History ; to the Museum of Compara- 

 tive Zoology, at Cambridge; and to the Institute of Technology. 

 New York maintains a museum of natural history, at Albany, by 

 annual appropriations, and has given eighteen acres of land, valued 

 at four millions of dollars, and five hundred thousand dollars be- 

 sides, to establish a natural history museum at Central Park, in 

 the city of New York. 




The institutions thus aided are of great value but no one of 

 them as a whole equals ours in scientific importance or intrinsic 

 worth, or is better entitled to public favor. 



I mention these facts in no spirit of envy or detraction. We 

 are all gratified to know that the number of laborers in the vast 

 field in which we work is everywhere increasing. The encourage- 

 ment extended to them by State governments implies that the 

 cultivation of the natural sciences is becoming more and more 

 wisely appreciated, and more widely diffused. 



I will detain you no longer. 



Rev. E. R. Beadle, D.D., was introduced to the audience and 

 said, substantially, that Philadelphia had been facetiously desig- 

 nated as " a dining station on the road to New York ;" but he 

 doubted whether that was all that can be truthfully said about 

 Philadelphia. He referred to the hospitals for the sick, asylums 

 for children, retreats for the aged and indigent, and the neat and 

 comfortable domiciles provided for working people, as well as to 

 the schools, colleges, university, and expressed his belief that, 

 although not yet finished, Philadelphia is doing very well. The 

 building of the Academy of Natural Sciences is one of the works 

 yet to be done. He alluded to the popular ignorance of even the 

 simplest matters which influence the life, happiness, and comfort 

 of humanity, and said that a workshop is wanted in which young 

 people may be taught to recognize the properties and uses of nat- 

 ural objects to distinguish what is fact from what is not and be 

 trained to apply such knowledge intelligently for the benefit of 

 themselves and of mankind. 



Prof. J. Aitken Meigs, M.D., of the Jefferson Medical College, 

 was next introduced and delivered the following address: 



Three-score years, heavy-laden with the endless series of changes, 

 the thrilling narrative of private joys and sorrows, hopes and fears? 

 the extraordinary record of national triumphs and social defeats, 

 and the wondrous historv of the Great achievements and miserable 

 failures that go to make up the life-history of two generations of 

 men, have been forever engulfed in the illimitable ocean of the 

 past, since the occurrence of that event the happy development of 

 which you this day celebrate. 




In this brief period comprised within the life-time of some 

 who now hear mj' voice the most remarkable historical events 

 have occurred, and many surprising scientific discoveries and im- 

 portant industrial applications of them have been made. Indeed, 

 by means of intellectual inquiry and its handmaid, applied science, 

 the social and industrial condition of the world, during this short 

 interval, has been completely revolutionized. 



Look at Philadelphia as it appeared at the commencement of 

 1812, as it has been pictured, in truth, by a medical worth}' of that 

 time. A city whose inhabitants numbered 111,120, or less than 

 one-sixth of its present population, occupying an area not one-half 

 of that over which it now stretches its huge proportions ; a city 

 which contained 25,814 dwelling-houses, 6955 public buildings, 

 stores, manufacturing establishments, etc.; 42 churches, 11 insur- 

 ance offices, 4 banks, 2 hospitals, a university, an Academy of Fine 

 Arts, a museum of natural history, and 2 theatres in which per- 

 formances were occasionally given ; a city in which 51 printing- 

 offices, employing 153 hand-presses, were in operation ; a city 

 boasting of 8 daily, 9 weekly, and several semi-weekly newspapers 

 having a combined circulation of about 61,000 copies per week 

 such, in brief, was the cit} 7 of Penn sixty years ago. 



Neither in this country nor in Great Britain, at that time, had 

 railroads and steamboats been put into operation. Electricity, 

 the modern Puck, had not yet learned the art of " putting a girdle 

 round about the earth in forty minutes." The telegraph had not 

 been invented. Communication between distant points was slow 

 and uncertain. Instead of a few minutes, as is now the case, 

 weeks were required for the transmission of intelligence from 

 Philadelphia to the Gulf of Mexico. Our city was then two 

 months distant by sail from Europe, and six from California, in- 

 stead of being, as at present, within eight or nine days of the 

 former, and but seven days' ride by rail from the latter. The 

 steam-plow, the reaping-machine, and the screw-ship were not in 

 existence. The printing-press and the spinning-jenny were worked 

 by hand instead of by steam. The photographic art was not 

 known. The old-fashioned tinder-box and brimstone-match had 

 not yet been replaced by the lucifer match, and oil, instead of gas, 

 was an universal means of illumination. In short, a thousand 

 mechanical and chemical influences which are incessantly changing 

 the aspect of our present civilization were then utterly unknown. 




8 



Come back with me, in imagination, to the period of time jnst 

 mentioned. It is the evening of the last day of the week, near the 

 close of January, and the nipping air sweeps eagerly up this broad 

 thoroughfare from the icy river below. Let us cross over and take 

 refuge from the wintry blast in yonder quaint-looking house at the 

 northwest corner of Second and High streets. From the imposing 

 array of many-colored bottles, seen through the dimly-lighted 

 window, and the inevitable sign of the pestle and mortar sur- 

 mounting the doorway, you gather, at a glance, that it is the shop 

 of a druafffist. Let us enter, for this is one of the centres of the 

 literary and scientific gossip of the town. Passing through an 

 atmosphere odorous with the emanations of camphor, rhubarb, 

 and musk, we find ourselves in a little room at the rear, and in the 

 presence of a group of men gathered around a table and engaged 

 in earnest conversation. At the further end of the room stands a 

 young man, who, with animated countenance and impressive ges- 

 ticulations, appears to be addressing the others upon a subject of 

 some importance. The lineaments of his face bear the stamp of 

 an earnest, ingenuous, and benevolent mind ; and now, as he ceases 

 speaking, and his face falls again into its accustomed repose, it 

 assumes an unmistakably reflective character. This is the pro- 

 prietor of the store one John Speakman, a native of Bucks count}', 

 and a member of the religious society of Friends. That young 

 gentleman sitting at the right of the table is Jacob Gilliams, a 

 dentist by profession, and an ardent lover of the natural sciences. 

 The individual by his side, bending over the table, with his eyes 

 intently fixed upon the speaker, is John Shinn, Jr., a manufactur- 

 ing chemist from New Jersey. In front of the latter, and upon 

 the opposite side of the table, sits a native of France, Nicholas J. 

 Parmantier, by name, who follows the occupation of a distiller and 

 manufacturer of cordials. That man yonder, apparently older 

 than his comrades, and whose broad and massive brow clearly 

 betokens a mind given to profound thought, is Dr. Gerard Troost, 

 a Hollander of Bois-le-Duc, a man of large attainments in mine- 

 ralogy and chemistiy especially, and at one time & protege of the 

 King of Holland. In the gentleman at the near end of the table, 

 who appears to be recording the remarks of the chairman, you 

 perceive another physician, Dr. Camillus M. Mann, an Irish refu- 

 gee, who having boldly but unsuccessfully struck, in 1798, for the 






liberty of his native land, lias fled from its shores to cast his lot 

 with the dwellers in the New World. 



In this outline picture, thus hastily sketched, behold the men 

 who, with slender pecuniary means, but with admirable prevision 

 and indomitable will, laid broadly and deeply the foundations of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, on the evening 

 of Saturday, the 25th day of January, 1812. I say broadly and 

 deeply, and I say it advisedly, for, from the scanty memoranda of 

 the early meetings of the Academy which have been preserved, 

 we gather that the founders considered ignorance of the laws of 

 nature to be the prolific parent of many of the evils to which man 

 is subjected, and they, consequently, recognized fully the necessity 

 of improving the condition of mankind by seeking to enlarge the 

 bounds of knowledge, and imparting what they thus acquired to 

 others. 



Furthermore, they clearly perceived, as we learn from the early 

 minutes of the society, that the operations of nature demand un- 

 prejudiced, attentive, and severe scrutiny : and, in order that they 

 might aid each other by a comparison of observations, they also 

 declared that their discussions must be free. 



Freedom of scientific thought and discussion, the cultivation of 

 the natural sciences exclusively, and the diffusion of this kind of 

 knowledge among the people, were the principles which guided 

 Speakman and his associates in their great undertaking. Indeed, 

 the founders of the Academy (under which honorable title must 

 also be included that eminent naturalist, Mr. Thomas Say, who 

 became one of their number a few months after their first meeting) 

 were evidently penetrated with the restless spirit of scientific 

 inquiry which was then so rife in Europe. The fact, moreover, of 

 living, as they did, in that memorable quarter of a century which 

 witnessed the great American and French revolutions, and the 

 famous though short-lived Irish rebellion, could not fail, in the 

 case of such young, enthusiastic, and reflective minds, to impress 

 them strongly with ideas of political freedom and the necessity of 

 establishing this freedom upon the enduring rock of the enlighten- 

 ment of the people. 



Mr. Gilliams was born in the closing year of our revolutionary 

 war, and Mr. Say four years later ; while Dr. Troost, the first 

 President of the Academy, was ushered into the world in the very 

 year made memorable by the declaration of American Independ- 




10 



ence. He was eighteen years of age, therefore, when the French 

 Revolution terminated with the death of Robespierre. Having 

 received his medical diploma from the Universit}' of Leyden, he 

 practised pharmacy for a short time in Amsterdam and at the 

 Hague. Afterwards he travelled extensively in France, Italy, 

 Germany, and Switzerland, and became the pupil and companion 

 of the celebrated Abbe Rene Just Haiiy, with whom he studied 

 crystallography. In Paris he became the associate of niany of the 

 most eminent scientific men of the day, and was elected in 1810 a 

 correspondent of the Museum of Natural History of France. Two 

 years later we find him in Philadelphia assisting in founding the 

 Academy. Of Dr. Mann we simply know that in 1*198 he was old 

 enough to take an active part in the Irish rebellion, and that 

 before coming to this country he also had spent some time in 

 France seeking aid for his compatriots. Mr. William Maclure, 

 who joined the Academy in June, 1812, and who acted as its 

 second president for more than twenty-two years, was born in 

 Scotland in 1763. Endowed with an eminently philanthropic and 

 benevolent mind, and believing that knowledge and intelligence 

 are the true sources of human happiness and prosperity, he used 

 the large wealth of which he was happily possessed, to foster 

 institutions of learning and to disseminate knowledge as much as 

 possible. He travelled much in his own country, in France, Spain, 

 the United States, and Mexico. We are told by his biographers 

 that he u visited these countries while in a state of political revo- 

 lution, that he might be near to extend assistance to the poor and 

 suffering." Now a moment's reflection will show, I think, that 

 these men, in the course of their studies and travels, could not 

 avoid being impressed by the spirit of free inquiry in science and 

 politics by which they were everywhere surrounded. In view of 

 the facts just presented, and from what we know of the lives and 

 opinions of the originators of the Academy, and of the motives 

 which actuated them in banding together for the cultivation of 

 natural knowledge, it appears to me not inappropriate to regard 

 the Academy as, in realitjr, an outgrowth of that great intellectual 

 and democratic movement which, during the latter half of the 

 eighteenth century, swept over Europe and a part of America, 

 and was characterized by an extraordinary activity in the study 

 of nature, coupled with a growing demand on the part of the 

 governed classes for larger social and political privileges. So 




11 



correct does this idea appear to me that I am led, in this con- 

 nection, to refer briefly to the condition of science in Europe in 

 the latter part of the eighteenth and the beginning of the present 

 century, when the first feeble and apparently insignificant attempts 

 were made to rear, in Philadelphia, a temple of the natural 

 sciences. 



To the student of history it is well known that in France, under 

 the administrations of those famous cardinals the far-seeing 

 Richelieu and the astute Mazarin a powerful impulse was given 

 to the highest branches of learning. From the hour that Louis 

 XIV. ascended the throne, however, this impulse began slowly to 

 be arrested by the gradual inauguration of a policy fatal alike to 

 the intellectual and mechanical interests of the country. Mathe- 

 matics, astronomy, the mechanical and inventive arts, anatomy, 

 physiology, theoretical and practical medicine all fell more or 

 less rapidly into decay. With the death of Louis in 1715, the 

 intellectual decadence of France was complete. Her great men, 

 one after another, had passed away, until at last she was without 

 literature, science, and arts. With the appearance of a new order 

 of literary and scientific men, in the middle of the eighteenth cen- 

 tury, she began at length to emerge from this stagnant condition. 

 In 1735 Newton's "Treatise on Fluxions" was translated into 

 French by Buffon. Three years later Voltaire made the people 

 of France acquainted with the philosophy of Newton in a manner 

 so clear and forcible as to cause it to supersede that of Descartes. 

 He also gave popularity among his countrymen to the writings 

 of Locke, from which, according to Buckle, Condillac drew the 

 materials of his system of metaphysics, and Rousseau his theoiy 

 of education. In 1749 attention was strongly directed to the 

 stiuby of natural history by the celebrated Buffon, who, in that 

 3'ear, commenced the publication of his famous work on that sub- 

 ject, and in glowing language advocated the unity of the human 

 race, and endeavored to show how climate and other physical 

 conditions influence the geographical distribution of animals. In 

 1751 a popular account of Bacon and his philosophy was con- 

 tributed by D'Alembert to the Encyclopedia. In 1754 Condillac, 

 who Cousin declares was the only metaphysician produced by 

 France in the eighteenth century, published his famous treatise 

 on Sensations. Four years afterward appeared the remarkable 

 essay of Helvetius on the Mind. These works undoubtedly gave 




12 



a powerful impetus to the study of the natural sciences at the 

 close of the last century. For their authors, with great abilitj' and 

 with much logical acumen and fulness of illustration, maintained 

 most peremptorily, as Locke had done more than a century before, 

 that all our knowledge is really due to the study of the external 

 world. Under the influence of the leading principle thus forcibly 

 inculcated, some of the ablest intellects of France began to devote 

 themselves, with extraordinary activity, to the study of the phe- 

 nomena of nature. The laws of the radiation and conduction of 

 heat were worked out by Prevost and Fourier ; electrical phe- 

 nomena were investigated by D'Alibard and Coulomb, while 

 Mains and Fresnel, bj r their researches upon double refraction 

 and the polarization of light, extended the bounds of our knowl- 

 edge of optics. At the same time Lavoisier, by investigating with 

 great ability the laws of oxidation, placed chemistry upon a 

 strictly scientific basis, and, in conjunction with Berthollet, De 

 Morveau, and Fourcnrv, laid down, for the first time, a systematic 

 chemical nomenclature. Meanwhile, geology was also cultivated 

 with eminent success by Buflbn, Rouelle, Desmarest, Dolomieu 

 and Montlosier; while astronomy, both ph} T sical and mathemati- 

 cal, was materially advanced by La Grange's discovery of the 

 periodical inequalities of the planets, and by the publication of 

 the " Mechanique Celeste" of Laplace, in which was clearly pre- 

 sented to the world for the first time the famous " nebular hypo- 

 thesis" an lrppothesis which is steadily approaching the character 

 of a demonstration with every new discovery in astronomical 

 science, and which has not only anticipated, but has also paved 

 the way for, the co-ordinate doctrine of evolution in biology. In 

 1TG2 Paubenton gave a new interest to palseontolog}^ by apply- 

 ing, for the first time, the principles of comparative anatomy to 

 the study of fossil bones. In this epoch, also, the illustrious Cu- 

 vier gave to both geology and palceontology an eminently philoso- 

 phical character by practically associating the study of the earth's 

 strata with the fossil remains found therein. This greatest of all 

 descriptive anatomists did much for philosophical natural history 

 by showing that the classification of animals must be based upon 

 the comprehensive study of their organs rather than their ex- 

 ternal characters. Histolog}', botany, and mineralogy likewise 

 found zealous investigators during this remarkable intellectual 

 period. While Bichat witli scientific skill and industry was 




13 



demonstrating that the study of the organs of an animal must he 

 subservient to the study of the tissues composing them, and while 

 Adanson, Duhamel de Monceau, Desfontaines, and especially 

 Jussieu were bringing to light many of the important facts con- 

 cerning the structure and physiology of the vegetable kingdom, 

 Rome de Lisle and Haiiy were as actively engaged in studying 

 the structure of minerals and applying the principles of geometry 

 to the elucidation of their forms. 



Turning, now, to Great Britain, we find that science, though not 

 so actively cultivated, during this period, as in France, was by no 

 means neglected. In 1753 was founded, at the cost of the govern- 

 ment, the British Museum, which for many years has been so largely 

 instrumental in promoting natural science in the United Kingdom. 

 Between the years 1759 and 1804, the science of therraotics was 

 greatly advanced by Black and Leslie, who, with much breadth of 

 mind and industry, not only demonstrated the laws of specific and 

 latent heat, but made possible the recognition of those remarkable 

 doctrines, the development of which has stamped the science of the 

 present century with its distinctive character. I allude to the inde- 

 structibility of force and the correlation of the forces as modes of 

 motion. At this time, many of the fundamental facts of chemistry 

 were discovered. Carbonic acid gas was isolated and studied in 

 1757 by Black. The discovery of ox}'gen was announced in 1774 

 by Priestlejr, together with a description of some of its important 

 properties. A year later he made known the fact that the air is 

 composed of oxygen and nitrogen; and in 1776 he made physi- 

 ology his debtor by proving that the change in color which the 

 blood undergoes in passing through the lungs is due to the ab- 

 sorption of oxygen an important and fundamental fact in the 

 chemistry of respiration. From 1799 to 1812, chemical science 

 was also promoted by Sir Humphry Davy, whose great achieve- 

 ment the decomposition of the fixed alkalies by galvanism 

 constituted a new era in this science. In 1808, just four years 

 before the founding of the Academy, Dalton gave another impetus 

 to chemical philosophy by announcing, as deductions from the 

 atomic theory, the well-known laws of definite combining propor- 

 tions laws which have done so much to perfect the analytical 

 and synthetical processes of the chemist. Another remarkable 

 discovery of this period the composition of water was made in 

 1783, by Watt and Cavendish, independently of each other. 




14 



In the early years of the present century, optical science re- 

 ceived a powerful impulse from the labors of Dr. Thomas Young, 

 who made the important discoveiy of the interference of light, and 

 gave to double refraction a rational theory by advancing a plau- 

 sible hypothesis of the propagation of light through an elastic 

 medium in a manner not contradictory to any of the well-known 

 facts and laws of dynamics. 



Geology, too, was not without its zealous cultivators. In 1788 

 Hutton published his celebrated " Theory of the Earth," in which, 

 according to Lyell, may be found the germ of the metamorphic 

 theory. Scientific geology in England owes its existence to Wil- 

 liam Smith, who, between the years 1790 and 1815, made a labori- 

 ous examination of different strata in Great Britain, and finally 

 published the first complete geological map that ever appeared. 

 In 1807 was formed the London Geological Society, the mem- 

 bers of which early began with untiring industry to collect the 

 facts relative to the structure of the earth's crust. Owing to the 

 assiduous and intelligent labors of John Hunter, comparative 

 anatom} r , in the last quarter of the eighteenth century, became, 

 for the first time, in Great Britain, a science of importance. In 

 astronomical science many important facts were discovered and 

 recorded. Maskelyne, in 1790, published an admirable catalogue 

 of the stars, while Sir William Herschel, between 1799 and 1820, 

 may be said to have recreated astronomy and enlarged our views 

 of the immensity of space by his astounding discoveries. 



In the mean time, science was steadihy though less rapidly un- 

 folding its fair proportions in various parts of Europe. The inte- 

 gral calculus and analytical mechanics were greatly improved 

 between 1727 and 1783 by Euler, the celebrated Swedish geometer. 

 In Germany, astronomy was cultivated from 1779 to 1815 with 

 signal industry and success by the physician Olbers, who, besides 

 discovering several of the asteroids, published an improved method 

 of calculating the orbits of comets. During this period, Werner, 

 in Germany, and Pallas, in Russia, made many important contri- 

 butions to geological science. By the publication, in 1774, of his 

 short but very remarkable " Treatise on the Characters of Minerals," 

 Werner accomplished for the terminology of mineralogy what the 

 " Philosophia Botanica" of Linnaeus had done for that of botany 

 nearly a quarter of a century before. Moreover, his celebrated 

 ' Classification and Description of Mountains," which appeared in 




15 



1781, did much to give to geology the rank of a positive science. 

 In the mountain ranges of Siberia, Pallas discovered the general 

 law of the succession of the granitic, schistose, and calcareous 

 rocks a discovery which has given birth, as Cuvier affirms, to 

 all modern geology. In 1808 Berzelius, by the publication of his 

 admirable " System of Chemistry," greatly enlarged the bounda- 

 ries of chemical science. His vast analytical labors did much to 

 place the atomic theory upon a sure foundation. In Italy, near 

 the close of the last century, electrical science was measurably pro- 

 moted by the labors of Galvani and Yolta. The former, in 1791, 

 made known his curious researches upon the influence of electri- 

 city upon muscular motion ; while the latter, about the same time, 

 invented his well-known electric pile, by which he showed that a 

 disturbance of electrical equilibrium was produced by the mere 

 contact of different bodies, and that the electrical current circu- 

 lated in one constant direction through a circuit composed of dif- 

 ferent conductors. Between 1753 and 1812, anatomy, physiology, 

 and general natural history were cultivated with much success in 

 Europe by Linnaeus, Pallas, Spallanzani, Camper, Blumenbach, 

 Felix d'Azara, and others. In addition to his " System of Na- 

 ture," " Botanical Philosophy," and other valuable contributions 

 to the literature of botanical science, Linnieus, in 1753, published 

 the " Species Plantarum," in which, for the first time, was adopted 

 the happy idea of distinguishing species by adding a simple de- 

 scriptive word to the generic term. Camper and Blumenbach, in 

 addition to their other labors, cultivated ethnology with much 

 zeal. Blumenbach, especially, by the publication of his " Decades 

 Craniorum," laid the foundation of the science of human cranio- 

 graphy. It was during the great scientific epoch now under review 

 that the illustrious Humboldt entered upon his wonderful career 

 of extensive travel and varied scientific research. In the ten 

 years immediately preceding the founding of the Academy, he had 

 already published valuable works on the physical geography, geo- 

 logy, zoology, comparative anatomy, and ethnolog}*- of the northern 

 part of South America and Mexico, together with important memoirs 

 on the astronomical observations and barometric measurements 

 made by him in conjunction with his fellow-traveller, Bonpland, 

 during their five years' exploration of little-known regions of the 

 New World. These works, together with the " Aspects of Nature," 

 which first appeared in 1808, did more, perhaps, than the writings 




16 



of any other scientist of that period to call attention to the study 

 of natural phenomena. 



Such, briefly, was the scientific outlook in Europe at the close 

 of the first decade of the nineteenth century. What was the con- 

 dition of science at that time in the New World? Meagre indeed. 

 Franklin, that " mighty genius," as Mirabeau styled him, had 

 been resting in his grave full twenty-two years when our Academy 

 was born, and science in Philadelphia I may say in America 

 lay sleeping with him. From the time that he had experimentally 

 identified lightning with the electric fluid no great scientific dis- 

 covery had been made in the United States. The American 

 Philosophical Society, which he was instrumental in creating, 

 had been in existence forty-three years, and had published in all 

 that time but six volumes of its Transactions. The College of 

 Physicians, founded in 1787, had issued, in 1793, the first and, up 

 to 1812, the only volume of its publications. In addition to these 

 institutions, two medical societies of but little importance, one 

 botanical association known as the Linnsean Societ}^, the Philadel- 

 phia, Loganian, and Friends' Libraries, with two small circulating 

 libraries, were the only available aids to the literary and scientific 

 student. Strictly scientific works were scarce, and scientific men 

 but few in number. Between 1739 and 1803, James Logan, Dr. 

 John Claj^ton, John and William Bartram, and Dr. Benjamin S. 

 Barton had published various more or less valuable works on 

 botany. The celebrated David Rittenhouse, whom Renwick, his 

 biographer, pronounced as " second to Franklin alone in point of 

 scientific merit, and the equal, in point of learning and skill, as an 

 observer, to any practical astronomer then living," had, some years 

 prior to his death, in 1796, contributed many valuable papers on 

 astronomical, philosophical, and mathematical subjects to the 

 early volumes of the Transactions of the American Philosophical 

 Society. In a later volume of these Transactions, Mr. Maclure, 

 who has been called the pioneer of American geology, published 

 an account of a geological survey of the United States made by 

 himself in 1809. In ornithology a new era may justly be said to 

 have been established in 180S b} r the publication of the first 

 volume of Alexander Wilson's magnificent work on American 

 birds, the fifth and sixth volumes of which appeared in 1812. 



The mass of the people of Philadelphia were then, as they are 

 now, but little interested in purely scientific studies. The few 




17 



persons who directed their attention to snch inquiries, having 

 neither cabinets nor books in the special departments of natural 

 science at their command, were forced to contend with many diffi- 

 culties. 



Amidst such inauspicious surroundings, and upon the eve of a 

 war with Great Britain, the founders of the Academy began their 

 great work, which, long ago, would have perished in the bud, had 

 it not been for the important principles involved in the attempt. 

 For it often happens in the affairs of men that the importance of 

 the objects to be accomplished gives to the efforts made in their 

 behalf a degree of perseverance which becomes the guarantee of 

 ultimate success. 



Did the time permit, I would fain dwell upon the trials and diffi- 

 culties experienced by the resolute men whose labors we this day 

 commemorate. I might interest you with details of their early 

 meetings held at Mr. Speakman's residence, and of the subsequent 

 sittings which took place at the house known to the citizens of 

 that day as " Mercer's cake shop," where the title, " Academy of 

 Natural Sciences," was first adopted ; I might describe to you the 

 little room over the milliner's shop in Second, near Race Street, 

 in which the present magnificent museum and library of the Aca- 

 demy were begun by the donation of books and dried plants, a 

 few stuffed birds, some shells and insects, and a handful of arti- 

 ficial crystals, all presented by the members themselves ; I might 

 tell you how, as the museum increased, it was found necessary to 

 move it to the larger accommodations afforded by a house in the 

 neighborhood ; how a collection of minerals was purchased for 

 the Academy by Mr. Speakman, who advanced the money from 

 his own private means ; how public lectures were delivered on 

 mineralogy by Dr. Troost, on entomology by Mr. Say, and on 

 botany by Drs. Waterhouse and Barnes, to large audiences of 

 ladies and gentlemen; how, in July, 1815, the cabinet and libraiy, 

 now considerably increased, were moved to a building expressly 

 erected for them on a vacant lot in the rear of Mr. Gilliams's resi- 

 dence on Arch Street ; how the war with Great Britain which 

 broke out in 1812, and continued during the first three years of 

 the society's existence, interfered very seriously with its progress 

 by interrupting, to a considerable extent, intercourse with Europe, 

 and thus almost entirely preventing the importation of much- 

 needed scientific books ; how several of the members were drawn 

 2 




18 



away from their quiet pursuits to act as volunteers in defence of 

 the city; and how, finally, notwithstanding the zealous efforts 

 that had been made to advance the interests of the Academy and 

 obtain for it the public support it deserved, the list of its members 

 at the end of three years contained but twenty -five names. In 

 1820 the society numbered one hundred members and one hundred 

 and ninety correspondents, and began, for the first time in its 

 career, to be favorabby recognized by the cultivators of natural 

 knowledge in Europe as well as America. The lot and building 

 at the southeast corner of Twelfth and Sansom streets having 

 been purchased with funds supplied by Mr. Maclure and other 

 members, the Academy moved to this locality in Ma}', 1826. 

 Thirteen years afterwards the collections had increased so much as 

 to require still larger space for their accommodation. Accordingly, 

 the present site at the southwest corner of Broad and Sansom 

 Streets was secured, and a large and commodious edifice erected 

 through the munificence mainly of its large-hearted president, the 

 late Mr. William Maclure. The building was enlarged in 1847, at 

 the expense of another benefactor of the Academj', the late Dr. 

 Thomas B. Wilson ; and again in 1855, by means of a fund raised 

 by subscription among the members and their friends. In this 

 building the sessions of the Academy have been held for the last 

 thirty-two years, during which time its utility as an educational 

 institution, and as a centre of scientific research, has been steadily 

 increasing. 



Thus slowly and laboriously advancing, encountering many ob- 

 stacles, now succumbing to them and anon overcoming them, 

 constantly embarrassed by the want of funds, deriving no assist- 

 ance from either the State or municipal government, except ex- 

 emption from taxation, and obtaining but little aid outside of the 

 immediate circle of its members, the Academ} r , after the lapse of 

 little more than half a century, has become famous in the great 

 republic of science, has achieved an enviable reputation not only 

 in this country, but in the Old World, as a chief focus of scientific 

 activity in the United States. As such, as the champion of edu- 

 cation of a special kind, as the earnest promoter of natural knowl- 

 edge, it deserves the respect and hearty support of the citizens of 

 Philadelphia. 



Listen, I pray you, to what the society has been able b\ r its own 




19 



unassisted efforts, to accomplish in the brief period comprised 

 within the limits of a single human life. 



It has gathered into its museum more than 400,000 specimens 

 of natural histoiy, man}' of them unique, and not to be replaced by 

 any expenditure of money, time, or labor. It has created a grand 

 library, containing nearly 23,000 volumes, many of which are not 

 to be found in any other library in the United States. Of some 

 of them duplicates cannot be procured at any price. This library, 

 which is one of reference exclusively, is of incalculable value to 

 men of science in this countiy. It is constantly consulted not 

 only by persons residing in this city, but also by students from 

 all parts of the United States ; not only by its own members, but 

 by man}' others engaged in scientific research ; for the society, 

 true to the principles of its founders, true to their desire to diffuse 

 knowledge as much as possible, has never refused permission to 

 any respectable persons to consult its treasures freely. 



The Academy, early recognizing the importance of contributing 

 to the common stock of knowledge any discoveries in natural 

 science made by its members, issued, in May, 1817, the first num- 

 ber of a journal of its transactions. The first series of this jour- 

 nal terminated in 1842, and consisted of 8 octavo volumes, of 

 2912 pages, containing 237 papers contributed by 56 authors, and 

 illustrated by 161 plates. In 1841 another publication known as 

 the " Proceedings," was commenced. Up to the present time, 22 

 volumes, each averaging 400 pages, and containing the verbal, 

 and many of the written, communications made at the meetings 

 of the society, have been published. In 1847 a second series of 

 the "Journal" was begun in quarto form. Seven volumes of 2820 

 pages in the aggregate, and containing 116 articles, contributed 

 by 50 authors, and illustrated by 318 well-executed lithographic 

 plates, have appeared. In 1865 the Academy, through its con- 

 chological section, commenced the publication of another serial, 

 the " American Journal of Conchology." Of this, seven volumes 

 have been issued, containing in the aggregate 2500 pages of 

 printed matter, illustrated by 150 plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about 1000 wood engravings. These publications are ex- 

 changed with about 200 scientific and philosophical institutions 

 located in the United States and South America, in Europe, Asia, 

 and Liberia. While serving as a medium for the dissemination 

 of a large amount of technical knowledge hitherto unknown or 




20 



unrecorded, they have acquired for the Academy and its students, 

 a world-wide reputation, and, by giving to Philadelphia a definite 

 scientific character and position, have enhanced our national re- 

 spectability abroad. They have shown that our city has its repre- 

 sentatives of mind as well as of wealth, that it is alive to the 

 intellectual as well as the material needs of mankind. 



The beneficial efforts of the Acadern} r have not been confined 

 to the collection of books and specimens and the publication of 

 learned papers. It has, also, as its archives show, aided, both by 

 judicious counsel and pecuniary means, many scientific expedi- 

 tions, whether projected under the patronage of government or 

 conducted by private individuals. In this way it has assisted in 

 developing the topography, meteorology, natural history, and 

 ethnology of many parts of this country, of the islands of the 

 South Sea, of the frozen Polar zone, and the burning African land. 

 By means of a sum of money annually donated by the children 

 of the late Augustus E. Jessup, for many years a member of the 

 Academy, it has supported a number of young men while devoting 

 their time and energies to the acquisition of a practical knowledge 

 of the natural sciences. 



To bring together the appliances necessary for scientific stud}^, 

 to give to the world the important results of its toilsome, pro- 

 tracted, and self-denying labors, to aid in their researches those 

 who have given evidence that they possess the rare ability and 

 the willingness to become the interpreters of nature, to inculcate 

 a taste among the people generally for the natural sciences by 

 exhibiting its rich collections for many years, without charge 

 such has been the work of the Academy, such its noble mission. 



When we reflect that the institution is supported entirely by 

 donations and the annual contributions of its members, very few 

 of whom possess large means ; when we consider that since its 

 formation not more than five hundred citizens of Philadelphia 

 have enrolled themselves in the list of its members ; when we re- 

 call the fact that it possesses no estate yielding revenue, that for 

 many 3 7 ears it struggled under the burden of a heavy mortgage 

 upon its building, and that, until this debt was extinguished in 

 1859, by the generous act of Dr. Wilson, its legitimate income was 

 not more than sufficient to defray its current expenses ; and when 

 we remember that the classing, labelling, and arranging of the 

 specimens have voluntarily been done by a few of the members, 




21 



the most of whom have been' able to give to this work and to their 

 studies onlj r the leisure moments snatched from their daily voca- 

 tions, we may well be astonished at the results it has accomplished 

 results which compare favorably in many respects with those 

 achieved by similar institutions, which for many years have been 

 sustained by the kingly governments of Europe. By fostering 

 science it has proven itself a benefactor of mankind. For the 

 labors of scientific men, though often but little heeded when first 

 promulgated, or looked upon as curious, and, it may be, as use- 

 less speculations, are really not lifeless germs. Like seed fallen 

 b} r the wayside, though neglected for a while, they nevertheless 

 spring up in due time and blossom and bear fruit ; like the tiny 

 brooks which feed the mighty river upon whose bosom the com- 

 merce of a great nation is ultimately to be borne, they find, at 

 length, a marvellous expression in the practical affairs of every-day 

 life. 



To appreciate properly the efforts of the Academy we should 

 contemplate for a moment what science has done for mankind, 

 especially during the last sixty }^ears. 



Look for a moment at savage man, who finds in his material 

 wants, the first incentive to the employment of his powers of ob- 

 servation in the acquisition of natural knowledge. Inferior to 

 many of the lower animals in the keenness of his senses, he has, 

 vastly more than the}', felt the pressure of the external world upon 

 him. The necessity of obtaining subsistence, providing shelter 

 against the weather, and means of defence against his enemies, 

 arouses his dormant intellectual energies. He begins to observe 

 how sunshine, rain, and wind affect the growth of the plants 

 around him, especially those supplying him with a portion of his 

 daily food ; how the germinating seed is developed into a plant ; 

 how the plant blossoms and bears fruit. He learns to distinguish 

 nutritive from poisonous plants, observes the effects of fire and of 

 natural forces, scans the starry heavens with eyes brimful of 

 superstitious wonder, and learns at length to couple the motions 

 of the heavenly bodies with the ever-recurring changes of the sea- 

 sons. Thus, face to face with the unalterable facts, the inexorable 

 laws of nature, his reason enters feebly upon that career of inquiry 

 which, though its immediate and pressing object is simply the 

 amelioration of his physical condition, is destined, after long ages, 

 to place him in possession of those classified groups of facts and 




22 



principles which we denominate mathematics, physics, chemistry, 

 geology, hotan}', biology, social, political, and moral science. 



Science, thus created, has rescued savage man from the bond- 

 age of ignorance and gross superstition, and, by giving him com- 

 mand over the primal forces of nature, has elevated him in the 

 economic, social, and moral scale. It has benefited him by im- 

 proving agriculture, developing and utilizing the staples of com- 

 merce, and increasing and cheapening the means of transportation. 

 It has bridged the ocean and made its waves a means of convey- 

 ance from one hemisphere to the other, thus bringing distant 

 nations face to face, as it were, and enabling them to exchange 

 their handicrafts quickly and profitabby. It has thrown huge 

 bridges wonders of engineering skill over impassable rivers, 

 and covered the earth with an endless net-work of railwaj's. The 

 classic fable of Mercury, cast from Olympus, becoming the mes- 

 senger of the gods, it has practical^ realized by drawing from 

 heaven the electric fluid and compelling it to act as the letter- 

 carrier of man along thousands of miles of telegraphic wire. Nay, 

 mirabile dictu, it has bound together the two hemispheres with 

 mighty submarine cables, along which our scientific Hermes speeds 

 with his letter-bags at the rate of 19,000 miles in a second of time. 

 It has introduced, as motive power, thousands of steam-engines 

 into mills, mines, and factories, with the most extraordinary in- 

 dustrial and financial results. By inventing a multiplicity of 

 apparatus for accomplishing, in a simple and effective manner, a 

 great I had almost said an endless varietj' of purposes, it has 

 increased the facilities of production, simplified and cheapened 

 many manufactures, remodelled the arts, and made labor so easy 

 and rapid that it is now possible to perform an amount of work 

 which no combined manual effort could hope to accomplish. Con- 

 stantly discovering new raw materials, it is constantly adapting 

 them to the material wants of life. It has taught us to bleach and 

 to dye, to spin and to weave, to decompose and recombine, and in 

 various ways to modify and to call into existence the hidden, use- 

 ful properties of the numberless substances that nature gives to 

 man for his convenience and comfort. It teaches us how to irri- 

 gate and manure barren soils into fruitful fields, how to transform 

 the wild currant into the sweet grape, how to convert its juice 

 into wine, and this into ether ; how to transform a caterpillar into 

 a silk-worm, and to weave into velvet the silk which it spins. 




23 



Diving into the bowels of the earth, it brings forth coal and iron. 

 From the former it distils, on the one hand, a brilliant light, and, 

 on the other, a magnificent series of dyes rivalling in gorgeousness 

 the colors of Tyre. The latter it converts into steel, and forges 

 this into bars, and even, as if to show its amazing dexterity, ham- 

 mers it into laminae rivalling the leaves of a book in thinness and 

 flexibility. It bleaches rags to whiteness, and gives to the calico- 

 printer indigo and ultramarine dyes. From refuse soap-suds it 

 reclaims important fatty matters ; from the leaflet of the pine tree 

 it obtains cloth capable of being woven into various articles of 

 dress. It has transformed pulverized bones and the sewage of 

 cities into manure, the refuse of the gas-works into ammonia, ether, 

 and flavoring extracts ; and old rags into clothing, paper, and 

 many ornamental articles. 



But the acquisition of natural knowledge, while adding directly 

 to the resources of our material civilization, has conferred upon 

 man practical benefits of another character. The proper applica- 

 tion of our advanced knowledge of the laws and conditions of life, 

 both in health and disease, has done much not only to mitigate 

 individual suffering and to prolong individual life, but it has also 

 enabled whole communities to protect themselves, more effectually 

 than in former years, from the ravages of epidemic disease. 



Though often foot-sore and weary in this long and solemn 

 march called the progress of science, though often bruised and 

 broken in his struggles with a stern and unrelenting nature, man 

 at length rises to the realization of the fact that he cannot live by 

 bread alone. His mental efforts, directed to the improvement of 

 his material condition, have given rise to intellectual wants, to the 

 irrepressible desire to understand the mystery of nature, to know, 

 in the language of Goethe's "Faust:" 



" To know what the world contains 

 In its innermost heart and finer veins, 

 To see all its energies and seeds, 

 And deal no more in words but in deeds." 



Perplexed and amazed in the midst of the knowledge which he 

 has so laboriously wrested from rock and tree, from river and cloud, 

 he obstinately questions the universe' about him, interrogates the 

 consciousness within him as to the meaning of creation, the sig- 

 nificance and purpose of man in the order of that creation, whence 




24 



he comes and whither he goes. To nature he says, in the words 



of Shelley's " Alastor," 



"I have loved 

 Thee ever and thee only ; I have watched 

 Thy shadow, and the darkness of thy steps, 

 And my heart ever gazes on the depths 

 Of thy deep mysteries. I have made my bed 

 In charnels and on coffins, where black Death 

 Keeps record of the trophies won from thee ; 

 Hoping to still these obstinate questionings 

 Of thee and thine." 



But these questionings, these yearnings of the soul, meet with 

 a vague and evasive response. Loving the light and seeking it, 

 the student of nature conies out of the search baffled and sad, but 

 not discouraged. In his attempts to penetrate the outward sem- 

 blance of the numberless objects that engross his attention, and 

 attain the inner and hidden meaning, he finds himself suddenly 

 confronted with the unknown and the unknowable, discovers im- 

 perfections in his knowledge that cannot be remedied, and feels 

 that the aspirations of his soul cannot be realized. Beyond the 

 sensual phenomena of nature, behind this veil of Isis, he beholds 

 forces which dreamily waver before him, and which continually 

 elude his eager grasp. Thus he awakens to a painful conscious- 

 ness of the limitation of his faculties, and to the recognition of a 

 Power vastly superior to himself a Power " past finding out." 

 In this consciousness, and in the feelings of helplessness and de- 

 pendence engendered by it, lies the germ of the religious idea 

 the essence of natural religion. Thus out of the philosophy of 

 nature is evolved the philosophy of spirit, as the flower is developed 

 from the stem. Though unable to grasp the secret idea of nature, 

 though unable to understand the reason and the object of the 

 eternal and infinite play of matter and force around him, he, 

 nevertheless, constantly rises in his pursuit of natural knowledge 

 to grander and still grander conceptions of the universe, to more 

 and more philosophical views of himself as part of that universe. 

 He rises to the recognition of fixed order and immutable law in 

 the moral as well as in the intellectual and physical worlds. He 

 fashions for himself a new morality, based upon a more exact 

 acquaintance with the laws of his organization and his relations 

 to the animate and inanimate nature about him. 




25 



Through the earnest and untiring efforts of its members, aided 

 by the wise munificence of many generous patrons of science in 

 this city, the Academy is to-day enabled to lay the corner-stone 

 of a larger edifice, and thus to inaugurate a new and still brighter 

 era in its existence. Assisted by the liberal and continued sup- 

 port of the citizens of Philadelphia, it is destined, in its efforts to 

 promote and popularize knowledge, to become more than ever the 

 pioneer of advanced science, more than ever a great school for the 

 higher culture of the mind, more than ever the exponent of that 

 intellectual revolution which is, at the present time, slowly but 

 surely changing the aspect of societ} 7 . 



Professor H. C. Wood, Jr., M.D., of the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania, was introduced, and delivered the following address : 



Ladies and Gentlemen : Standing here to-day on this platform 

 in presence of some of my masters in science, there comes upon 

 me a flood of reminiscences from the past, and in the uncertain 

 twilight of the future I seem to see a vision fair and fruitful, 

 though misty and uncertain in its outline. 



The tiny doors which close the cells where memories sleep are 

 flung wide open, and scenes of the long-ago come upon me as 

 sharp and clear as though in the light of the present. It seems 

 but yesterday, when, a lad of some ten summers, leading my little 

 brother by the hand, with eager, anxious heart, I rang the front- 

 door bell of a house in Arch Street, near Fourth, and asked for 

 one of those who now sit upon this platform. Well do I remember 

 the disappointment of the final answer to my entreaties that I was 

 too young to he given tickets to the Academy of Natural Sciences. 

 Childish griefs and childish joys, though they seem to us trifles 

 light as air, are } T et real as life, and the impression of the choking 

 disappointment of that hour time will not efface. 



Again I see myself, now in advancing youth, armed with a letter 

 of introduction, ascending the steps of a modest dwelling in 

 Sansom Street, wondering, as I ring, how strange it is that so 

 great a man should live in so small a house. Little then did I 

 know the truth of the saying of the prose poet, Ruskin, " That the 

 world pays least for its best work." 



The word of the master of the little house had, however, power 

 enough to unlock that chamber of mysteries of my childish fancy, 




26 



the Library of the Academy, and, astonished, in ni}' jo} T , I roamed 

 at will and fastened as I wished on the books that crowned the 

 walls. But another step was wanted. I could not handle the 

 rare treasures locked in the museum cases. I could but flatten 

 my nose against the panes in my efforts to see the specimens. 

 One auspicious morn, however, the kej'S were given me, and now 

 at last I could touch and handle and taste to my heart's content. 

 It seemed as though the veritable keys of knowledge had been 

 put in m} r possession, and I had but to walk in and pluck the 

 golden fruits of the orchard. 



There comes to me to-day also a vision of the future. I see no 

 longer the homely face of the old Academy, beautified by the 

 thoughts of its usefulness and by the glamour of old association. 

 A new building rises before me, higher and wider in its scope, 

 grander and nobler in its architecture, than the old building that 

 we love, but yet cold and barren in its very newness. 



It is to realize this vision that we are here to-day. It is to 

 witness the first beginning of the new life of our loved institution 

 that we are assembled. The trustees, in their faith rather than 

 in their knowledge, in their weakness rather than in their strength, 

 have gone forward, and it rests with the citizens of Philadelphia 

 to decide what measure of success shall crown their efforts. 



I know that there are some who see but little value in the study 

 of natural science ; who in their folly cry out Cui bono ? With 

 such to-day I will not pause to reason ; if the noonday blaze of 

 this the nineteenth century cannot penetrate the thickness of their 

 intellectual darkness and prejudice, what could the rushlight of 

 my best efforts do ? I can only say with reverent feeling, God 

 pity the man and God help the nation that, blinded by its avarice 

 for present material gain, can see no place for the quiet student 

 of God's work. 



See yon orchard, with its golden fruit of plenty. Could it be 

 foreseen, or did the little rootlet know, that, working so silently 

 and yet so faithfully in the darkness under ground, it was prepar- 

 ing for such a bounteous harvest ? So it is with the scholar in 

 his quiet room; in his most abstruse and apparently most profit- 

 less study, he is gathering the knowledge, the power, that per- 

 haps other men shall ripen into the richest material fruit. 



There has been made recently, in this city, and indeed there is 

 still being made, an effort to put the University of Pennsylvania 




27 



on a wider footing. Far be it from us to-day to dampen the ardor 

 or throw aught in the way of those who are carrying out this 

 work ; hut none the less is it true that there is a culture deeper, 

 higher, and more profound than any university can give. 



This is the self-culture of the true scholar, for which a university 

 at best can but lay the foundation. The highest culture must be 

 forever self-culture. A man may be aided by others up to a cer- 

 tain point ; into the unknown he must travel alone. Aye, more 

 than this, before he reaches that unknown he must for himself 

 trace out the obscure, unfrequented paths which mark the out- 

 lying regions of uncertainty in knowledge. 



It is to afford opportunity for this self-culture that the Academy 

 exists. There are but few men whom destiny has marked for such 

 a course. The study halls of the Academy must always be for 

 the few but the work of the few is the life of the nation. I 

 must assert, then, the pre-eminent claims for such institutions as 

 our Academy. Talk of your universities of the large crowds 

 that haunt their doors of the annual overflow of vigorous trained 

 young talent wherewith they bless surrounding regions. Why, 

 our old Academy is the gymnasium in which men train themselves 

 for professorships in the universities. 



There is a class of medical men who, in their early professional 

 life, study deeply the natural sciences, and who often through 

 life add to the practical duties of their profession investigations of 

 natural history. I do not remember a single great name of such 

 a character in Continental Europe. Yet in the British Islands, 

 the brightest lights of the profession the Hunters, Coopers, 

 Brodies, Reids, Bells, Beales, Pagets, etc. the foremost medical 

 thinkers, leaders, and practitioners of their days, have been of 

 this character students of natural history who have applied the 

 methods and facts of their sister science to their profession, and 

 thereby climbed to their proud pre-eminence. In our own city the 

 names of Rush, Morton, Harlan, Wood, and some about us, 

 mark our origin. And, indeed, it is chiefly through such men 

 that the great renown of our city, as a medical centre, was ac- 

 quired. Speaking for this class of men, I would say to the citi- 

 zens of Philadelphia, as they value the fair name of their city ; as 

 the}' respect and honor that profession into whose keeping they 

 place all that is dearest to them ; as they hope for skilful rescue 




28 



when life is in peril, to see to it that men of this character are not 

 deprived of their opportunities for culture and growth. 



For myself, I wish to say to-day, that whatever of value I may 

 have achieved in the past, or whatever of value, little or great, I 

 may achieve in the future, as a medical investigator, is largely due 

 to the lessons of close observation, of patient comparison, of cau- 

 tious deductions, learnt in the close aisles and dusty by-rooms of 

 the old Academy the only institution which I ever have or ever 

 will claim as my Alma Mater the veritable mother of my intel- 

 lectual life. 



A few weeks before the lamented Professor Frazer's death, a 

 prominent business man of this city told me that he called on him 

 in reference to a grandson who rebelled against learning Greek or 



Latin. Mr. asked the Professor, " Is there any use in his 



learning these things ?" " Where is he to live ?" was the reply. " In 

 Philadelphia." "Ah, in Philadelphia ! Why, then it makes little 

 difference whether he is an ignoramus or not." 



There was deep truth in the Professor's sarcasm. It has seemed 

 in the past as though our city was willing to settle clown to be the 

 far-famed paradise of mediocrity a dead level, unbroken alike by 

 abysses of gross ignorance or masses of high culture. 



There has, however, come into this old city of ours, I am most 

 happy to believe, a new life. Arousing herself from her lethargy 

 of years, like a giant refreshed by sleep, she is marching forward 

 in all her interests ; stretching out the arms of her commerce to 

 grasp at once the. Occident and the Orient, pouring forth from 

 multitudinous workshops products of a continent, sending her 

 sons to drag out the untold treasures of the neighboring moun- 

 tains, she is multiplying her wealth with almost magical rapidity. 

 Her educational interests, awakened by the hum of universal labor, 

 are forgetting their feeble steps in this the day of their rejuvena- 

 tion, and it's well that our cherished institution now steps forward 

 to the changing music of the times. 



Not long since there came to a neighboring city a man of years 

 and said to its citizens : I have nothing to give but nry time and 

 my reputation, but if you will find me the means 1 will found a 

 museum that shall far eclipse the famous Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia ; and the citizens of that city, scarcely a 

 third the size of ours, gave him $302,000, and the legislature of a 

 State scarcely as large as a corner of Pennsylvania gave him 




29 



$190,000, and the museum is arising in grand proportions, and 

 the fame of it is filling the whole earth. To-day we come before 

 the citizens of Philadelphia not with empty hands. With a library, 

 with a collection that it would take half a million of dollars to 

 gather up ; with funds sufficient for future support, this institu- 

 tion only asks a habitation ^a house in which it may display its 

 riches. 



Trustees of the Building Fund of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, we labor, it is true, under that strange curse which seems 

 rooted in the very groundwork of human nature. We are no 

 citizens of a foreign land. We are but prophets without honor in 

 our own country. And yet I say, go forward. 



Only with faith and vigor let us work, and it must be that suc- 

 cess will crown our enterprise ; that ere long we shall raise our 

 jubilant voices under roofed arch tree, in spacious halls and 

 lighted galleries voices jubilant for labor past, for good works 

 done, for hopes extinguished in fruition. 



Dr. Ruschenberger then laid the corner-stone, depositing in it 

 copies of the daily papers of the city, papers relating to the his- 

 tory of the Academy, the by-laws of the Academy, and the num- 

 ber of the Proceedings of the Academ}- of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia last published. 



Rev. Dr. Boardman delivered a prayer, after which the assem- 

 blage dispersed. 







Proc AKS. 1872, 



-Platel. 



Conrad; Illwstr aborts of Fossil G&n^ray&fShdk 





Troc.AMS.18T2. 



Flat&ir. 



&%. 



/ 



GirurcuUlluslratuDns of Fossil Genera of Sheik 





i c.A.N S.H 2 







Plate 3 





- 



z \~ZcZr 



: 





s 







i 



*v^-T-- 



lD 



- 



a 





i 



Cooper OriNew Calif orniaMollusca-, 





! I it Ll ' ' 



| ,, 4. 



rs 









v 







1 



< 







v. 



M_- ' 





-1 



i 







Cones, Otv Spheytisctcfrz/?'. 





Proc. A N 3 !872 



Plate S 





Cones, OnSpliewscidac 





Faroe A 1ST. S. 187 



Plate 6 





S 





jVj 



H * 



- i * 



/^ % I 







".$ 





TryonyJiTewManjie^ivalve Mo/ius 



C<2s 





Proc.AXS.-l72' t 



PlabeAll 







ft 



p3y 1/ 









3 



V 



Ccnrad,NrwRcce7ita!idFossilySJielIs 

 of North Carolina 





Proc.AXS.1872. 



Plate 8. 



Gab b o n P o 1 o r t h 1 1 s 





Proc.k.KS.1872. 



Plate 9. 



Gabb. Mexican Fossils $.acl Genera of Moilusca. 





Proc.A.TT.S. 1872. 



Plate 10. 



,m 



-# ; ' 



K 



---. 



Gabb Mexican Fossils and Genera of Mollusca 





Proc.A.N S.J8?2. 



Plate 11. 





b. Mexican Fossils and Genera . ! Mollusca. 







MBI. WHOI LIBRARY 



UH Ifl 



Rt, 5 



A 6^X 






'',':xV'.X 











iiiii- 



lite 



sss 




