



PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LXIX 



1917 



philadelphia -. 

 The academy of Natural Sciemces 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1918 




mi 



The Academy of Natural Science? of Philadelphia. 



March 1, 1918. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1917 were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1-80 -"^pril 6, 1917. 



" 81-128 -■ ^P"l 24, 1917. 



" 129-148 May 1, 1917. 



" 149-202 May 5, 1917. 



203-218 August 8, 1917. 



219-250 August 20, 1917. 



" 251-304 October 16, 1917. 



" 305-336..; February 1, 1918. 



" 337-352 February 27, 1918. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 





PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



The President, Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D., ex-ofjficio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Berry, S. Stillman. On Moschites verrucosa (Verrill) and its 



allies (Plates I, II) , 2 



Calvert, Philip P. On Hagenius brevistylus 205 



Beltian bodies on Acacia 205 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on fishes from New Jersey, Penn- 

 sylvania, and Maryland 108 



A second collection of fishes from the Canal Zone 127 



Fowler, Henry W., and Emmett Reid Dunn. Notes on 



salamanders (Plates III, IV) 7 



Heath, Harold. The anatomy of an eolid, Chiorsera dalli 



(Plates XI, XII, XIII) .., 137 



Hebard, Morgan. Dermapterological notes (Plate XVI) 231 



Notes on Mexican Melanopli (Orthoptera: AcricUdse) 251 



Henderson, Junius, and L. E. Daniels. Hunting Mollusca 



in Utah and Idaho in 1916 -. 48- 



HuBBS, Carl L. Colpichthys, Thyrinops, and Austromenidia, 



new genera of atherinoid fishes from the New World 305 



Jordan, David Starr. Concerning Rafinesque's Precis des 



Decouvertes Somiologiques 276 



On a forgotten genus of sharks described by Nardo 279 



Keeley, F. J. Polarization and color . effects exhibited by 



certain diatoms 334 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Notes on the anatomy of Oreohelix, II 42 



The reproductive organs of Epiphragmophora callistod- 



erma P. and F 47 



Marine moUusks of Hawaii, I-III (Plates XIV, XV) 207 



Marine moUusks of Hawaii, IV-VII (Plates XX, XXI, 



XXII) 309 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., and Amos P. Brown. Oligocene fossils 

 from the neighborhood of Cartagena, Coloml)ia, with 

 notes on some Haitian species (Plates V, VI) 32 




IV CONTENTS. 



PAGE 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., and J. H. Ferriss. Mollusca of the south- 

 western states, \III: The Black Range, New Mexico 

 (Plates VII, VIII, IX, X) 83 



PiLSBRY, Henry' a., and C. W. Johnson. New Mollusca of 



the Santo Domingan Oligocene 150 



Stone, Witmer. A new hummingbird from Colombia 203 



Wade, Bruce. New and little-known Gastropoda from the 

 Upper Cretaceous of Tennessee (Plates XVII, X^TII, 



280 




\ 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



■OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1917. 



January 16. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Two hundred and forty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "Ohgocene fossils from the neighborhood of 

 Cartagena, Colombia, with notes on some Haitian species," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry and Amos P. Brown, was presented for publication 

 (December 30, 1916). 



Dr. William E. Hughes made a beautifully illustrated communi- 

 cation on Japan of To-day. (No abstract.) 



Samuel J. Castner was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ON MOSCHITES VERRUCOSA (Verrill) AND ITS ALLIES. 



BY S. STILLMAN BERRY. 



Striking instances of anomalous distribution of Cephalopoda are 

 not frequently encountered during a perusal of the literature, espe- 

 cially among the less active, bottom-loving forms, most of which, 

 so far as known, are prone to inhabit each its own definitely circum- 

 scribed district or faunal area. It therefore becomes of especial 

 nnportance to subject such apparent exceptions as we do find to the 

 most careful scrutiny, to ascertain whether they really exist, and 

 then, if they seem so to do, to discover a reason. One of the most 

 interesting and frequently quoted cases of this sort is that of Verrill's 

 Moschites [ = Eledone] verrucosa, originally described from 466-810 

 fathoms, off the coast of southern New England, again reported from 

 considerably deeper water off Delaware Bay, and since recorded from 

 630 fathoms off the Kermadec Islands, and from 1,020 fathoms in 

 the Gulf of Panama by Hoyle (1886, 1904). 



So far as we know now, the Atlantic records for verrucosa are 

 unimpeachable, and in any case they fail to offer such zoogeographic 

 peculiarities that they need concern us here. That the case with 

 the Pacific citations is altogether otherwise, it is the aim of the 

 present paper to show. 



The first of these is based upon a single male specimen taken by 

 the Challenger ExpecUtion in 1874, reported upon by Hoyle in 1886, 

 and now preserved in the British Museum (Natural History) at 

 South Kensington. Though Hoyle's remarks are brief (1886, 

 p. 104), they show that he fully appreciated not only the specimen, 

 but the peculiar interest which his identification gave to it. He 

 wrote under " Eledone verrucosa" as follows: 



"The agreement between the Challenger specimen and the 

 admirable drawings and description of Professor Verrill is so close 

 that there can be no doubt as to the correctness of this identification. 

 The only differences appear to be that in the American specimens 

 the cirri round and al)ove the eyes are a little more prominent than 

 in that from the Pacific, while the latter has the extremity of the 

 hectocotylized arm formed like that of an Octopus rather than like 

 that of an Eledone, as shown in Verrill's figure. The Challenger 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



specimen, moreover, has the second pair of arms the longest, the 

 first come next, while the third and fourth are subequal and still a 

 little shorter; but as appears from Verrill's measurements {loc. cit.), 

 these proportions are liable to variation. 



"The point of greatest interest in connection with this specimen 

 is its capture so far away from the original habitat of the species, 

 but this, as will appear in the sequel, is not without parallel (see 

 p. 223)." 



Believing that Hoyle's own notes, more particularly the observa- 

 tions on the hectocotylus, are a self-evident disproof of his identifica- 

 tion, I recently (1916, p. 49) expressed my dissent from his conclu- 

 sions and proposed the name Moschites chaUe7igeri for the Kermadcc 

 Island species. By way of more completely establishing the point 

 in question I have obtained photographs both of the type specimen 

 of Eledone verrucosa Verrill in the Museum of Comparative Zoology 

 and of the "Challenger" specimen which is now the type of M. 

 challengeri.^ From these it would appear that w^iile the general 

 f acies of the two species is indeed quite similar, the differences between 

 them are none the less w^ell marked. At the time the Challenger 

 report was written, the great importance of the hectocotylus in 

 classification was not so fully realized as at the present time, but 

 reliance need not be had upon this alone. The curious stellate 

 tubercles, which occur scattered over the dorsal surface of both forms, 

 and which undoubtedly furnished the principal cause for their 

 confusion, are in the case of M. challengeri much more numerous, 

 more closely placed, and have a more general distribution over the 

 body than in the Atlantic species. Where with M. verrucosa one 

 counts but 13 or 14 of these tubercles in a line running transversely 

 across the middle of the back, in the Kermadec species there are 

 easily twice as many; and where in verrucosa the tubercles extend 

 only slightly past the boundary between the head and umbrella 

 (see Verrill's second figure), leaving most of the outer surface of the 

 arms and umbrella smooth, in M. challengeri the tubercles extend 

 down over the entire upper portion of the umbrella and even well 

 out upon the basal portions of the arms. I think there is no doubt 

 that a direct comparison of the specimens themselves would reveal 

 other and doubtless more far-reaching differences, but those 



1 For the photographs of Eledone rerrueosa I am indebted to Mr. Samuel 

 Henshaw, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology; for those of M. challengeri 

 to Mr. G. C. Robson, of the British Museum (Natural History), South 

 Kensington. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



enumerated above should be sufficient to prevent a further confusion 

 of the species. 



Miss A. L. Massy has suggested in correspondence that M. chal- 

 lengeri may be identical with the M. charcoti Joubin of the Antarctic, 

 but in the absence of better evidence than that afforded by the 

 literature I am unable to arrive at the same conclusion.^ 



The remaining Pacific record of verrucosa (Hoyle, 1904, p. 21) is 

 admitted as doubtful by Hoyle because of the inadequate preserva- 

 tion of his material, so I am sure can on a priori grounds be rejected 

 without hesitation. Quite possibly the specimens represent an un- 

 described species. In any case M. verrucosa must now be eliminated 

 from our lists of the Pacific fauna. 



Omitting from consideration the Antarctic members of the genus, 

 several of which possess stellate tubercles somewhat resembling 

 those of the species described, we arrive at the following summary of 

 this group of Moschites as it has appeared in the literature to date: 



1. Moschites verrucosa (Verrill, 1881). PI. I. 



1881. Eh-done verrucosa Verrill, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., v. 8, p. 105, 

 pis. o, 6. 



1881a. Eledonc verrucosa Verrill, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., v. .5, p. 380, 

 pl.-^. 52, 5.3. 



1882. Eledone verrucosa Verrill. Rep. U. S. Fish Com. 1879, pp. 393, 435 

 [183, 225], pi. 44, figs. 3, 3a. 



1884. Eledone verrucosa Verrill, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., v. 6, p. 248. 



466-1,255 fathoms, New England region {Blake, Fish Hawk, 

 Albatross). 



2. Moschites challengeri Berry, 1916. PI. II. 



1886. Eledone verrucosa Hoyle, Challenger Rep., p. 104 {not of Verrill, 

 1881). 



1915. Eledone verrucosa Oliver, Trans. N. Z. Inst., v. 47, p. 559 (merely 

 noted). 



1916. Moschites challengeri Berry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 68, p. 49. 



630 fathoms, off the Kermadec Islands (Challenger). 



3. Moschites (species ?). 



1904. Moschites verrucosa Hovle, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., v. 43, p. 21 

 (not of Verrill, 1881). 



1,020 fathoms. Gulf of Panama (Albatross) . 



The foregoing history well illustrates how much more apt to lead 

 to erroneous theories of distribution and how much more difficult 

 finally to rectify, is the improper union of species than, if we have 



^ As this paper is in final proof I am informed that Miss Massy has just pub- 

 lished some fuither observations on this group in her report on the Cephalopoda 

 of the "Terra Nova" Expedition, though the paper itself has been delayed in 

 reaching me. It was in deference to this that consideration of the Antarctic 

 forms was omitted from the present paper 




1917.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Fig. l.—Moschites verrucosa. Distal portion of right third arm of type, showing 

 hectocotylus, enlarged about four diameters. 



Fig. 2. — Moschites challengeri. Distal portion of right third of arm of type, 

 showing hectocotylus; enlarged about two diameters. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



but the two evils to choose from, their undue separation in the first 

 place. With specimens from widely separated geographical areas, 

 the presumption is that greater knowledge will generally increase 

 rather than diminish the dependable differences. 



Literature Cited. 



BtRRY, S. S. 1916. Cephalopoda of the Kermadec Islands. Proceedings 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, v. 68, pp. 45-66, text figs. 

 1-22, pis. 6-9, March, 1916. 



HoYLE, W. E. 1886. Report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. Chal- 

 lenger during the years 1873-76. Voyage of the "Challenger," v. 16, 

 pt. 44, pp. i-vi, 1-246, pis. 1-33, 10 text figs, and map, 1886. 



— — 1904. Reports on the dredging operations off the west coast of Central 

 America .... carried on by the U. S. Fish Commis.sion Steamer 

 "Albatross," etc. Reports on the Cephalopoda. Bulletin Museum 

 Comparative Zoology, v. 43, pp. 1-71, 7 figs, in text, pis. 1-12, March, 1904. 



JouBiN, Loxjis. 1906. Cephaiopodes. Documents scientificjues. Expedition 

 Antarctique Frangaise (1903-1905), pp. 1-12, text figs. 1-3, pi. 1, Paris, 

 December, 1906. 



Olivek, W. R. B. 1915. The Moliusca of the Kermadec Islands. Transac- 

 tions New Zealand Institute, v. 47, pp. 509-568, pis. 9-12, July, 1915. 



YiERRiLL, A. E. 1881. Reports on the results of dredging .... by the 



" Blake," etc. X. Report on the cephalopods, and on some additional species 

 dredged by the IT. S. Fish Commission Steamer "Fish Hawk," during the 

 season of 1880. Bulletin [Museum Comparative Zoology, v. 8, pp. 99-116, 

 pis. 1-8, March, 1881. 



• 1881a. The Cephalopods of the northeastern coast of Amei-ica. Part II. 



The smaller Cephalopods, including the Sqiuds and the Octopi, with other 

 allied forms. Transactions Connecticut Academy, v. 5, pp. 259-446, 

 pis. 26-50, June, 1880-December, 1881. 



■ 1882. Report on the cephalopods of the northeastern coast of America. 



Report II. S. Commissioner Fish and Fisheries, 1879, pp. 211-455 [1-245], 

 pis. 1-46, Washington, 1882. 



-—- — ': 1884. Second catalogue of Moliusca, recently added to the fauna of the 

 New England coast and the adjacent parts of the Atlantic, consisting mostly 

 of deep-sea species, with notes on others previously recorded. Transactions 

 Connecticut Academy, v. 6, pp. 139-294, pis. 28-32, April- July, 1884. 



Explanation of Plates I and II. 



Plate I. — Moschites verrucosa (Verrill). Dorsal view of type specimen, 



approximately natural size. 

 Plate II. — Moschites chaUengeri Berry. Dorsal view of type specimen, a little 



less than f natural size. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



NOTES ON SALAMANDERS. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER AND EMMETT REID DUNN. 



All annotated list of the tailed amphibians contained in the 



collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is 



given in this paper. In some cases pertinent notes and remarks are 



added, and in the Plethodontidse, as now understood, some taxonomic 



relations are suggested and one new species is described from western 



Pennsylvania. 



AMPHIUMID^. 

 Amphiuma means Garden. 



Thirteen examples, six without data, others from South Carolina 

 (Dr. J. E. Holbrook), Georgia (Dr. Jones), and Mobile, Alabama 

 (Dr. Nott). All have two toes. 



Amphiuma tridactyla (Fitzinger). 



Four examples without data, all three-toed. Also one labelled 

 ^'Colorado Springs" (Tatnall). 



SIRENID^. 

 Siren lacertina LinnS. 



Nineteen examples, four without data, and others from: Alton, 

 Illinois; Savannah, Georgia (Dr. Egghng); Alabama; Pecos (Dr. 

 A. E. Brown) and San Diego (W. Taylor), Texas; Volusia and Argo, 

 Pasco County, Florida. 

 Pseudobranchus striatus Le Conte. 



Four from Georgia (Major Le Conte and Dr. W. L. Jones). Five 

 from Argo, Pasco County, Florida (G. Pine). 



PROTEID^. 

 Proteus anguineus Laurenti. 



Five from Adelsberg (Dr. H. H. Smith and Dr. Folz), Styria 



(Capt. McClellan), Carniola (M. Van Schraiber), and Ulyria. Also 



five without locality (C. L. Bonaparte). 



Proteus anguineus var. carrarae (Fitzinger). 



One without locality (Bonaparte). 



Necturus maculosus Rafinesque. 



Ten without data, and fifteen from New York and Ithaca (Dr. 

 A. E. Brown); Essington (J. T. Gardiner on March 2, 1900) and 

 Indiana (R. W. Wehrle), Pennsylvania; Ohio (J. Speakman); 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Wabash River, Indiana (Dr. Blackwood and A. C. Hill) ; Michigan 

 and Portage Lake (Mr. Hoopes and W. E. Dickinson) and Lansing. 

 Necturus punctatus Gibbes. 



One from Ogden, South Carohna. Possibly its characters may- 

 be due to growth. 



CRYETOBRANOHID^. 

 Megalobatrachus maximus (Schlegel). 



Two large examples from Japan. 

 Cryptobranchus alleganiensis (Daudin). 



Forty-two examples (sixteen without data), from Pennsylvania 

 (Pittsburgh, Beaver, Two Lick Creek, Yellow Creek and Newton 

 Hamilton); Maryland (Allegany County); Tennessee (Knoxville). 

 The Knoxville material (four examples) shows the hind toes free, 

 as in our regular series. As Cope had but one example, we do not 

 admit C. fuscus Holbrook to specific rank. 



AMBYSTOMID^. 

 Ambystoma tigrinum (Green). Plate III. 



Salamandra ingens Green, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VI, pt. 2, 1830, 



p. 254. In fresh-water stream near New Orleans. (No. 1309, A. N. S. P., 



type.) 

 Siredon lichenoides Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 68. Lake 



at head of the Santa Fe Creek, in New Mexico. (Nos. 1375 and 1376, 



A. N. S. P., topotypes. Col. Abert.) 

 Ambystoma nebulosum Hallowell, Rep. Exped. Zun. Sitgreaves, 1853, p. 143, 



PI. 20. San Francisco Mountain, New Mexicb. (No. 1,294, A. N. S. P., 



type. Dr. S. W. Woodhouse.) 

 Ambystoma bicolor Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1857, p. 215. 



Beesley's Point, New Jersey. (No. 10,584, A. N. S. P., type.) 



A large series of examples, all ages, from: New York (Long Island); 

 New Jersey (Nesco, Beesley's Point and Crosswicks); Georgia; 

 Texas (Staked Plain, north of Staked Plain and south of Clarendon); 

 Mexico (Lakes Chalco and Xochimilco and Sierra Madre near 

 Colonia Goreia in Chihuahua); New Mexico (Sapello Canyon in 

 San Miguel County and Santa Fe); Oklahoma (Fort Supply and 

 North Fork of Canadian River); Ohio (Columbus); Michigan 

 (Kalamazoo and Ann Arbor); Wisconsin; Kansas (Fort Harker, 

 Platte River 300 miles from Fort Riley, and Fort Washakee) ; Colo- 

 rado (Colorado Springs); Wyoming (Bridger Pass and Como); 

 Montana (Yellowstone Park); California (McCloud River and 

 spring at 1,500 feet elevation in Coast Range of Humboldt County). 

 Also examples from "Pou Creek" and "Rocky Mountains," besides 

 others without data. No, 1,300, A. N. S. P., may be type ? of Amby- 

 stoma maculata Hallowell, New Mexico (Dr. McClelland). 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



As the allied Lingucelapsus Cope has been merged with Ambystoma, 

 it is also likely that the intermediate Chondrotus Cope is also a 

 sj^nonym. 



This salamander is extremely variable in color. The newly 

 developed axalotl is largely dark brownish above, from nearly 

 uniform to finely speckled, dotted, spotted or marbled with darker. 

 Some examples show the upper surface largely of uniform tint, 

 though with a number of rather large dusky to blackish spots on the 

 sides, and fewer on the tail (second figure from bottom). The 

 lower surface of the axalotl is uniform brownish-yellow. The 

 yellow spots then appear and with complete metamorphosis are 

 often quite pronounced. Sometimes the yellowish predominates 

 and the darker brownish becomes black, or the dark color may be 

 of greatest extent. As the yellowish predominates it often leaves 

 the darker color as narrow reticulating irregular lines (fourth figure 

 from bottom). Often along the sides the reticulations may 

 form numerous crowded rounded spots or blotches, frequently 

 variable in size. On the back they are usually not so crowded. 

 As the dark color predominates usually the yellow is restricted rather 

 narrow and regular transverse bands (uppermost figure). Sometimes 

 some examples appear to retain the dusky blotches of the axalotl 

 along with the yellow and dusky markings of the adult (second 

 figure from bottom). We have not seen examples "uniform brown 

 above, yellow below, sides darker brown," as mentioned by Cope.^ 

 A Mexican example from near Colonia Goreia is remarkable for 

 having a few yellow spots above and but a few along the sides, 

 the dark color greatly predominating. 



Ambystoma punctatum (Linn^). 



Forty-one examples: New Hampshire (Franconian Notch in 

 White Mountains) ; Rhode Island (Slocum); New York (West Chester 

 County and Racquette Lake); Pennsylvania (Philadelphia, York 

 County, Ardmore, Clifton, Indiana and Chambersburg) ; North 

 Carolina (Mitchell County); Kentucky (Mammoth Cave); Ohio; 

 Indiana (Hanover College); Illinois (Chicago); Missouri; Lake 

 Superior. 



Ambystoma opacum (Gravenhorst). 



Salamandra fasciata Green, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., I, 1818, p. -350. 

 No locality. (Nos. 1,420 to l,-423, A. N. S. P., types.) 



Twenty-eight examples : Massachusetts (Berkshire Hills ?) ; New 

 York (Catskills); New Jersey (Medford, Staffords Forge, Hanimon- 



1 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 34, 1889, p. 71. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ton, Atlantic City, Beesley's Point); Delaware (Newark); Virginia; 

 North Carolina (Lake Waccamaw) ; Tennessee (Raleigh); Indiana 

 (Hanover College); Georgia; Louisiana; Texas (Wichita River). 

 Six examples represent the material from Lake Waccamaw, obtained 

 in 1908. This is the only record for North Carohna. The Catskills 

 example is small and uniform in color. 

 Ambystoma talpoideum (Holbrook). 



One from Henderson County, North Carolina. The hind foot 

 has two tubercles on the sole. 



Ambystoma conspersum Cope. 



Amhl'jstomn conspersum Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 123. 

 Londongrove, Chester County, Pennsylvania. (No. 10,589, A. N. S. P., 

 type.) 



Also four other examples: South Carolina (Charleston) and 

 Georgia. 

 Ambystoma jefFersonianum (Green). 



One example in very poor condition from "near Philadelphia" 

 received from Dr. E. Hallowell. Seven from Brookville, Indiana 

 (E. Hughes). 



Ambystoma jefFersonianum fuscum (Hallowell). 



Ambystoma fuscum Hallowell, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) III, January 

 1858, p. 355. Indiana, near Hanover College. (No. 1,379, A. N. S. P., 

 type.- Prof. King.) 



Ambystoma jefFersonianum platineum (Cope). 



Amblystoma platineum Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, p. 198. 

 Cleveland, Ohio. (No. 1,299, A. N. S. P., type. Dr. J. P. Kirtland.) 



This is a much more slender form than the preceding, otherwise, 

 and in its color, appearing much the same. The appressed toes of 

 the hind and fore limbs meet. 

 Ambystoma jefFersonianum laterale Hallowell. 



Ambystoma laterale Hallowell, I.e., p. 352. Borders of Lake Superior. 

 (No. 1,377, A. N. S. P., type. Dr. Le Conte.) 



An example from the Green collection, received through Dr. 

 Bache, and like the type, in poor preservation. 

 Ambystoma macrodactylum Baird. 



Five examples from Hatzic, British Columbia (Dr. Bodington). 



Dr. Ruthven says: "A. stejnegeri is with little doubt, most nearly 

 related to A. macrodactylum. It may easily be told from the latter 

 by the longer and more compressed tail. The anterior digits also 

 appear to be larger in macroclactylum. In the specimens of the 



2 Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., 1912, pp. 517-519. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



latter examined the distance from the wrist to the tip of the longest 

 finger is contained in the length of the head and body 12.6 to 12.7 

 times as compared with 9.27, 9.7, 10, and 10.6 times in A. stejnegeri." 

 Our specimens of the present species show the same measurements 

 as about 8 or 9. Possibly A. macr-odactylum, A. epixanthum, and 

 A. stejnegeri may represent simply variations of one wide-ranging 

 species. Also an example in the collection from La Grande in 

 Union County, Oregon (M. Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn on August 15, 

 1910). 



Ambystoma altamirani Duges. 



Amhlydoma altamirani Duge', La Naturaleza, (2) II, 1896, p. 459, PI. li). 

 A 3,100 metros de altura — en la serramla de las Cruces perteneciente al 

 Valle de Mexico. (Nos. 10,562 and 10,563, A. N. S. P., topotypes.) 



These examples both in the axalotl stage, larger nearly trans- 

 formed, gills gone and mouth in the larval stage. 



Ambystoma epixanthum Cope. 



Aitihhjsloma epixanthum Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 16. 

 8wamp near the head of the South Boise PLiver, on the south .side of the 

 Sawtooth Mountain Range, Idaho. (Nos. 3,880 to 3,883, A. N. 8. P., 

 types.) 



Ambystoma tenebrosum (Baird and Girard). 



Five examples, from Body Bay and Felton, California. 



Ambystoma microstomum (Cope). 



Amblystoma microstomum Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861. p. 123. 

 "Ohio" (= Wabash River, Indiana). (No. 1,285, A. N. S. P., tyi»«. 

 Wabash River, Indiana. Dr. McMurtrie.) 



Nine examples: Ohio (Columbus); Missouri (St. Louis); Texas 

 (Houston and Dallas). Two examples from St. Louis show two or 

 three costal spaces (in one case two on each side and three or four 

 in the other) between the fore and hind limbs when appressed to 

 the sides. The Columbus specimen has about three on one side 

 and four on the other. A specimen without locality has but a single 

 costal space and of small size. The type contains about two or 

 three .spaces, so far as may be determined, as it is soft. In most of 

 the examples probably three costal spaces would be the average. 



As the type locality appears wrongly quoted, the following is 

 explanatory. The original account says, ''another specimen of 

 an Amblystoma on the table, from Ohio, Mr. Cope observed, 

 had been regarded *as belonging to the Sal. porphyritica of Green. 

 Prof. Baird having shown that that species is the S. salmonea of 

 Storer, or Pseudotriton salmoneus Baird, he would call the Ohio 

 .species Amblystoma microstomum." This refers^ to a description 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 8. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



of Ambijstoma porphyriticufn Hallowell, which Hallowell wrongly 

 confused with Salamandra porphyritica Green. Now Hallowell's 

 material is based on "One specimen in Mus. Acad. Nat. Sc, pre- 

 sented by Dr. McMurtrie" and "Prof. Green's specimens were 

 found in French Creek, near Meadville, Crawford County, Pennsyl- 

 vania. " As we have the McMurtrie example, labelled "Wabash 

 River, Indiana/' we assume "Ohio" mentioned in 1861 to be 



erroneous. 



PLETHODONTID.^. 



The present state of our knowledge of the genera of this family 

 will not permit us to advance any new rules, though Moore in 

 abolishing the family Desmognathidse renders it imperative that 

 the generic relationships be revised. The value of the characters 

 which can be used must always remain more or less doubtful. Some- 

 times the same character in one group may not be of the same value 

 in limiting the genera as in another. Nevertheless, it appears to 

 us that the boletoid tongue characterizes a very natural group, i.e., 

 Spelerpes and allied genera. All the species of this group of genera 

 display that tendency towards opisthoccelous vertebrae which led 

 Cope to place Thorius in the Desmognathidse. Most, if not all, 

 have an acjuatic larval stage, in some cases, as Spelerpes ruber and 

 Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, -of long duration. Separate premaxil- 

 laries compel us to place G. porphyriticus and Geotriton fuscus at the 

 bottom of the list. These forms are generically separated by the 

 very doubtful character of webbed toes in Geotriton, Spelerpes follows 

 Gyrinophilus, both with free toes, Manculus with only four toes, 

 (Edipus and (Edipina with webbed and united digits, respectively, 

 and Thorius with webbed toes and extremely large nostrils. It 

 may be here stated that the young of Geotriton fuscus also have 

 extremel}' large nostrils. Probably further studies may reduce 

 some of the above to subgenera and even create a new subgenus 

 for Spelerpes ruber, which seems sufficiently distinct from *S. longi- 

 caudus, the type of the genus. Manculus, Oedipus, and CEdipina 

 may be derived from Spelerpes, which in turn may be derived from 

 Gyrinophilus, probably through Spelerpes ruber. The direct rela- 

 tions of Thorius and Geotriton are less certain, but that they are 

 closely allied is unquestionable. Next to the free-tongued group 

 would come Stereochilus, a little-known form, which in color and 

 dentition approaches Spelerpes ruber. The tongue is more free than 

 in any of the other remaining genera. The cranial structure is 

 comparatively unknown. Cope's statement that it lacks the 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



premaxillary fontanel and that "in the only skeleton I have examined 

 the prefrontal is present one side and wanting on the other" would 

 bring it near Leurognathus. 



The next group, Desmognathiis and Leurognathus, agree in the 

 absence of prefrontals, poorly developed vomerine teeth, and in a 

 peculiar collar on the atlas where the temporal muscles originate. 

 But the absence of a premaxillary fontanel in Leurognathus and the 

 presence of well-developed vomerine teeth in some male and all 

 female Desmognathiis prevent us dividing one genus from the other. 

 All the preceding genera have typically aquatic larvae. Desmogna- 

 thus seems to tend towards terrestrialism in that one species lays 

 eggs on land and the aquatic larva of another is unknown and may 

 not exist. Typhlotriton and Autodax stand between this group and 

 the Plethodon group, but there is some uncertainty as to the actual 

 relations. Both have prefrontals and one premaxillary with a 

 fontanel. Autodax is a Pacific-coast form with absolutely terres- 

 trial existence. Typlotriton is a blind cave form from Missouri 

 with an aquatic larval stage. In both the vertebrae become 

 opisthocoelous with age. Both, according to Cope, have the tem- 

 porals originating on the atlas. Typhlotriton, whose cranial structure 

 Ave recently examined, has not the transverse dorsal ridge on the 

 atlas which characterizes Desmognathiis and Leurognathus. Whether 

 Autodax has it is not known, but the tendency of the temporal 

 muscles to originate on the atlas is accentuated in these forms, as 

 Cope pointed out. Geographical probabilities and life histories 

 suggest Typhlotriton as next of kin, while the hooked jaw of the 

 most terrestrial species of Desmognathus (ochrophea) would indicate 

 Autodax. 



The next group is Plethodon and its two derivatives, Hemi- 

 dactylium in the east and Batrachoseps in the west, is, so far as known, 

 entirely terrestrial. The vertebrae appear to remain amphicoelous 

 throughout life. Plethodon with two premaxillaries stands at the 

 ])ase. Hemidactylium differs in the loss of a toe, Batrachoseps in 

 the loss of prefrontals, the consolidation of the premaxillaries and 

 the loss of a toe. Heptoglossa known only from one specimen, has 

 the tongue attached, the toes webbed and opisthocfielous vertebrae. 

 Beyond this it is unknown. Probably it should stand between- 

 Plethodon and Autodax. Typhlomolge is a permanent larva of some 

 plethodont. More cannot be said of its relation?^ other than its 

 affinities are more likely at the aquatic Spelerpes end of the series 

 rather than at the terrestrial Plethodon end. 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



There are several examples of independent and parallel evolution 

 in these genera. The most obvious is the loss of a toe, which has 

 been undoubtedly independent in the three reduced genera. . The 

 loss of the prefrontal in Batrachoseps and the Desmognathus group 

 is another case. The consolidation of the premaxillaries has probably 

 been independent, likewise the acquiring of terrestrial habitat. 

 A scheme is here added, followed by a key to the genera, which 

 may show more clearly the relationships as understood by us. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Key to the genera. 



a. — Permanent larvae, blind Tyyhhmolge 



aa. — Larva not permanent, develop eyed adults. 

 b. — Tongue free. 



c. — Premaxillaries two Geotriton 



d. — Toes 5, webbed Gyrinophilus 



dd. — Toes 5, free. 

 cc. — Premaxillary single. 



e. — Toes 5, free ..Spelerpes 



ee. — Toes 5, webbed. 



/. — Nostrils small QUdipus 



ff. — Nostrils large Thorius 



eee. — Toes 5, fused '. Q^dipina 



eeee. — Toes 4 • Manculus 



hh. — Tongue not free. 



/. — No premaxillary fontanel. 



g. — Vomerine teeth present , StereocMlus 



gg. — No vomerine teeth Leurognathus 



ff. — Premaxillary fontanel present. 

 h. — Toes 5. 



i. — ^No prefrontal Desmognathus 



a. — Prefrontal present. 

 j. — One premaxillary. 



k. — Blind Typhlotriton 



kk. — Eyes functional Autodax 



jj. — Two premaxillaries. 



I. — Toes fused ? Heptoglossa 



II. — Toes free Plethodon 



hh.— Toes 4. 



m. — Prefrontal present Hemidactylium 



vim. — No prefrontal Batrachoseps 



/ 



It seems useful to add a few remarks on the larvae of some members 

 of the present, as well as allied families. Ambystoma larvae have the 

 dorsal fin-fold extending forward to the head. The larvae of the 

 various species of the same genus seem difficult to separate and are 

 rare in collections, as with the exception of the western species they 

 remain larvae only a few months.* The larvae of Diemictylus are, 

 according to Banta and McAtee, "maculate at an early age, have a 

 dark line through the eye, and when of fair size show the red lateral 

 spots. "^ In many cases the larvEe of species of the Plethodontidce 

 are unknown, and larvae have been seen which could not be identified. 

 The species in the northeast present no great difficulties. The 



* B. G. Smith, Bull. Wiscon. N. Hist. Soc, IX, April, 1911, pp. 14-27, 

 6 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, 1906, pp. 67-83. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



following tentative key, of the genera Plethodon, Hemidactylium, 

 Desmognathus, Gijrinophilus, and Sjjelerpes follows, with the reserva- 

 tion that so far as known the first two do not have aquatic larvae. 



a. — Gills unpigmented, presenting a glistening white appearance; 



legs stout Desfnognathus fusca 



aa. — Gills pigmented; legs slim. 



h. — Dorsal surface lighter than sides. 

 c. — Dorsal surface immaculate save slight pigmentation 



along median line; a black lateral band 



Spelerpes longicaudus 

 cc. — Median dorsal surface immaculate; a lateral row of 



dark spots *S. bislineatus 



66.— Back and sides alike. 



d.— Head short = *S. ruber 



dd. — Head long Gyrinophilus porphyriticus 



D. fusca, length of largest larva, 44 mm. ; smallest adult 27 mm. 

 >S. longicaudics, " " " 42+ " " " 49.5 " 



S. bislineatus, " " " 70 " " " 47 " 



S. ruber, " " " 110 " " " 74 " 



G.porphyriticus, " " " 100+ " " " — " 



S. ruber and G. porphyriticus are seldom met with in the same locality. 

 The final color pattern of the plethodont salamanders is the result 

 of the gathering of pigment on the sides of three rows of unpigmented 

 spots. These spots vary with the species in number, size and date. 

 In D. fusca the dorsal series is quite large and the two series are 

 confluent at an early age and form the light dorsal area so charac- 

 teristic of the young of that species. In >S. longicaudus at 30 mm. 

 (smallest larva seen), the dorsal areas have merged along the back 

 and the pigment forms a definite lateral line. At this stage the 

 lateral spots are not noticeable. In S. bislineatus at the earliest 

 stage (17 mm.) the dorsal areas are very noticeable and the others 

 are not evident. Up to the age of about a year (30 mm.) the dorsal 

 areas retain their shape. As they break up, the lateral areas appear, 

 and these sometimes last after transformation. The dorsal areas 

 attract pigment which forms the lateral line at transformation. 

 Until transformation, however, this line is much broken and very 

 irregular more resemliling a chain than a band. This difference as a 

 chain and a band, connected with the lightness of the dorsal surface, 

 serves to differentiate between this species and S. longicaudus. 

 Furthermore, 8. longicaudus has a shorter development than S. 

 bislineatus, as it is a one-year instead of a two-year species. In 

 examples of the same size (30 to 40 mm.) the dorsal areas have 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



completely disappeared in S. longicaudus while they are still quite 

 distinct in S. bislineatus. The dorsal region of S. longicaudus has 

 only a faint stripe down the median line. The larvae of *S. bislineatus 

 have the dorsal region either uniform or darker towards the sides. 

 In *S. ruber the dorsal series is formed of a few very small areas, and 

 is only distinct in smaller larvae (40 mm.). This forms no part in 

 the development of the color-pattern. The lateral series is of many 

 small areas which form a dotted line down the side of the larva. 

 It disappears before transformation, and also plays no part in the 

 formation of the adult pattern, or rather the early disappearance 

 of the larval series is responsible for the lack of pattern in S. ruber. 

 The same may be said of G. porphyriticus and D.- quadrimaculata . 

 It is interesting to note in this connection that the pattern of D. 

 ochrophea is certainly the result of the development of the dorsal 

 areas from their insignificance in D. quadrimaculata, their late 

 coalescence in D. monticola, their early coalescence in D. fusca, to a 

 coalescence in D. ochrophcea, which takes place so early that even in 

 the smallest examples seen no trace of it has been observed. This 

 suggests the absence of an aquatic larval stage, and indeed D. 

 ochrophcEa is the most terrestrial of the species of Desfnognathus. 

 The color pattern of the "red-back" stage of the entirely terrestrial 

 Plethodon erythronotus is almost exactly like that of D. ochrophcea. 

 The "cinereus" phase is certainly not to be explained in the same 

 way, and the coloration of the species of Plethodon presents a different 

 problem. It has been stated that the dark pigment underlies the 

 red in P. erythronotus. Now the bleachment and the color pigment 

 (usually red or yellow), in Spelerpes and Desmognathus are distinct, 

 the black pattern being the result of the change in the larval areas 

 already referred to, while the color pigment appears at transformation 

 and usually is not localized. A possible suggestion of the coloration 

 in the genus Plethodon is that the dark color is uniformly over the 

 animal and the color pigment is localized or in scattered spots. 

 Thus there would seem to be no trace in Plethodon of the influence 

 of any larval areas on the coloration, which would be correlated 

 with the apparent absence of any aquatic larval stage. 



In order to make clear the relations of several recently described 

 species, and a new species of Plethodon described later on in these 

 pages, the analysis below is given. Species marked f are restricted 

 to the southern AUeghanies and those marked * are northeastern 

 in distribution. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Key to Eastern Plethodotitidce. 



a. — Tongue free in front. 

 6. — Toes 5. 

 c. — A line from eye to nostril. 

 d.- — Line from eye to nostril black and \ight...Gyrinophilus danielsi^ 



dd. — Line from eye to nostril light only G. porphyriticus* 



cc. — Xo line from eye to nostril. 



e. — Tail short; color red Spelerpes ruber* and allied forms 



ee. — Tail long. 



/, — Color orange; tail spotted S. maculicaudus 



ff. — Color yellow. 



g. — Tail barred S. longicaudus* 



gg. — Tail banded. 



h. — Two lateral stripes, but no dorsal stripe S. hisUneatus* 



hh. — Two lateral stripes and a dorsal stripe S. guttolineatus 



66.— Toes 4. 



i. — Yellow, with dark lateral stnpe...Mancidus quadridigitatus 

 ii. — Black M. reniifer 



aa. — Tongue not free in front. 

 j. — Toes 5. 

 k. — Internal nostrils very inconspicuous and twice as far 

 apart as external nostiih.. Lewognathus marmoratus^ 

 kk. — Internal nostrils conspicuous, about far apart as 

 external nostrils. 

 /. — Light line from eye to angle of jaw. 

 711. — Tail keeled. 



n. — Belly plain, black Desmognathus quadrimaculata^ 



nn. — Belly plain, light D. monticola\ 



7inn. — Belly mottled lighter D. fusca* 



nnnn.- — Belly mottled dark D. fusca auriculata 



7nm. — Tail cylindrical. 



0. — Belly light D. ochrophwa* 



00. — Belly dark D. caroli7iensis^ 



II. — No light line from eye to angle of jaw. 



p. — Vomerine and parasphenoid series of teeth 



continuous Stereochilus 7narginatus 



pp. — Vomerine and parasphenoid series of teeth 

 not continuous. 

 q. — Body color uniform plumbeous. 



r. — Legs red Plethodo7i sherma7ii'\ 



rr. — A yellow stripe from eye to gular fold, 



P. jorda7ii\ 



rrr. — No marldngs. 

 .s. — Belly plain-colored. 



t. — Costal grooves 14 P. 77ietcalfi\ 



tt. — Costal grooves 17 P. wehrlei* 



ss. — Belly mottled; costal grooves 19, 



P. erythroTiotus* 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



qq. — Body color not uniform plumbeous. 



u. — Costal grooves 19; red stripe down back^ 



P. erytkronotus* 

 uu. — Costal grooves 14; numerous white 



spots present P. ghdinosus* 



uuu. — Costal grooves 13; a yellowish-green 



net-work P. mneus^ 



jj. — Toes 4 Hemidactylium scutatum 



Typhlomolge ratlibuni Stejneger. 



Three from an artesian well, 152 feet deep, at San Marcos in 

 Hays County, Texas (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry in 1903). 



Geotriton fuscus Bonaparte. 



Four from Piedmont and Italy. 



Gyrinophilus danielsi (Blatchley). 



Four from North Carolina (Roan Mountain), Tennessee (Roan 

 Mountain), and Georgia. This species has divided premaxillaries 

 and seems to be representative of the genus Gyrinophilus in the 

 southern Alleghanies, rather than a Spelerpes, as so located originally 

 by Blatchley. It differs from G. porphyriiicus in that its color is. 

 lighter and finely dotted with darker, while in G. porpkyriticus the 

 color is more uniformly marbled. Also there is a black line as well 

 as a light line from eye to nostril in G. danielsi, while in G. porphyri- 

 iicus the dark line is obscured in the general dark color of the head. 

 Gyrinophilus porphyriticus. 



Thirteen examples: Chenango County and central New York; 

 Pennsylvania (near Philadelphia, Round Island, Altoona ?, Warren 

 County, Indiana, Port Allegany); Maryland (Jennings). 



Spelerpes ruber (Daudin). 



Pseudolriton flavissimus Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18.56, p. 130. 

 Liberty County, Georgia. (No. 576, A. N. S. P., type. Major Le Conte.) 



A very large series of all ages: New York (Staten Island); New 

 Jersey (Camden, Staffords Forge and Cape May County at Petticoat 

 Bridge and Crooked Creek) ; Pennsylvania (Philadelphia, Fairmount 

 Park, Germantown, Holmesburg, Naylor's Run, Gladwyne, Devon^ 

 Woodbourne, Monocacy, Chester County, Round Island, Diamond 

 Valley, Newton Hamilton, Brush Mountain in Blair County, Pine 

 Grove in Cumberland Count}' and Pine Creek in Indiana County); 

 Delaware (Wilmington); Maryland (Jennings, Bacon Hill, Bohemia 

 Manor, Elk Neck); Ohio; North Carolina (Cranberry and Henderson 

 County); Tennessee (Sawyer's Springs); Alabama (Auburn). 



The variation in this species is wide and excessive, and we find all 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



degrees in the vomerine dentition, from extremely obtuse to quite 

 acute, and from widely separated to fairly close together. The color 

 varies from rather light or clear and with small, well-defined, widely 

 scattered spots to almost unicolor, in which spots have run together 

 somewhat, to very thickly well-defined, prominent large spots cover- 

 ing the whole upper surface. A larva from Roan Mountain, Tennes- 

 see, of uncertain determination, differs in the presence of a narrow 

 dark vertebral line. The example from Henderson County, North 

 Carolina, has a long tail and lacks the black spot on the head. The 

 specimen from Auburn, Alabama, in common with the type of 

 P. flavissimus, and the Henderson County specimen, all have the 

 series of teeth very closely approximated in the median line. Further, 

 they have very small scattered spots. The Alabama specimen has 

 the back covered by a dark ground-color, not caused by spots running 

 together. In this it thus differs from the dark color of the usual old 

 of ruber where the spots are very numerous and crowded together. 

 No specimen w^hich could be classed as S. montanus or S. schencki 

 are in the collection. From the descriptions schencki appears a 

 rather local race of ruber. S. montanus appears to be a different 

 matter. Our only approach to the dentition described for montanus 

 is found in the tj^pe of P. flavissimus and the two other specimens 

 last mentioned. No approach to the color of montanus has been 

 seen in our material. In this connection the junior author has 

 examined the types of montanus and schencki in Washington. 



Spelerpes maculicaudus (Cope). 



GyrinophUus maculicaudus Cope, Amer. Nat., XXIV, 1890, p. 966, fig. 

 Brookville, Indiana. (Nos. 10,579 to 10,581, A. N. S. P., types. A. W. 

 Butler.) 



Also an example from Mammoth Cave, Kentucky (S. N. Rhoads). 



Spelerpes longicaudus (Green). 



Thirty examples: New Jersey (Atlantic City and White Pond); 

 Pennsylvania (Wissahickon, Brandywine Summit, Valley Forge, 

 Lancaster County, Cresson, Huntingdon, Round Island, Ohiopyle, 

 Newton Hamilton, Indiana, Two Licks Creek, Two Licks Hills, 

 Altoona); Maryland (Jennings); Virginia (Giles County); Georgia. 



Spelerpes bislineatus (Green). 



Salamandra bislineata Green, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., I, 1818, p. 352. 

 No locality. (Nos. 695 to 698, A. N. S. P., types. Dr. Bache.) 



Also a large series of all ages: Massachusetts (Nantucket and 

 Berkshire Hills); New York (Casanova and Catskills); New Jersey 

 (Morris County, Swartswood Lake, Atlantic City and White Pond) ; 

 Pennsylvania (Philadelphia, Germantown, Holmesburg, GladwjTie, 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Falls of Schuylkill, INIonocacy, Brandy wine Summit, Dingmans 

 Ferry, Newton Hamilton, Brooklyn, Port Allegany); Maryland 

 (Jennings and Bacon Hill); North Carolina (Roan Mountain, Black 

 ^Mountain, Henderson County and Cranberry); Tennessee (Roan 

 ^Mountain). 



Spelerpes melanopleurus Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1893, p. 383. RUey's Creek, one of the head 

 tributaries of the White River, southwest ISIissouri. (Nos. 10,456 to 

 10,460, A. N. S. P. types.) 

 Spelerpes multiplicatus Cope. 



Four examples from Little Rock, Arkansas. Dr. A. E. Brown. 



Spelerpes guttolineatus (Holbrook). 



Salamandra gutlolineata Holbrooli, N. Amer. Herp., Ed. 2, V, 1842, p. 29, 

 PI. 7. Greenville, CaroUna. (Nos. 716 and 717, types.) 



Also thirty-three examples from Henderson County, North 

 Carolina, and Mobile, Alabama. 

 Spelerpes belli Gray. 



Seven examples from Mexico (Jalapa, Zacualtipan and Mex. 



Cientif. Com. 1885). 



(Edipus variegatus (Gray). 



Geotriion carbonarius Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 373. No 

 locahty. (Nos. 503 and 504, A. N. S. P., types. Jalapa, Mexico.) 



Also another example labelled Mexico. 



Thorius pennatribus Cope. 



Amer. Nat., 1869, p. 222. Mexico. (No. 1,269, A. N. S. P., cotype? 

 Orizaba, Mexico.) 



Another labelled Mexico (Duges). 



(Edipina lineolus (Cope). 



Spelerpes lineolus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 197. Table 

 Land of Mexico. (No. 735, A. N. S. P., type.) 



Manculus quadridigitatus (Holbrook). 



Salarnandra quadridigitata Holbrook, I.e., p. 65, PI. 21. Middle section of 

 our State, Georgia and Florida. (No. 490, A. N. S. P., tj'pe. South 

 CaroUna.) 



Also thirteen examples: Georgia (Thomasville) and Florida 



(Enterprise). 



Stereochilus marginatus (Hallowell). 



Pseudotriton uiaryinatus Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 

 p. 130. Liberty County, Georgia. (No. 514, A. N. S. P., type. Major 

 Le Conte.) 



Leurognathus marmoratus Moore. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 316, PI. 14, figs. 4-6, 10. In a large 

 clear rocky pool beneath a waterfall of a stream on the south flank of 

 Grandfather Mountain, North Carolina, and at an elevation of about 

 3,500 feet. (No. 19,610, A. N. S. P., paratype.) 



Another example obtained at the same locality by Mr. S. N. 

 Rhoads was wrongly determined by him as Desmognathus nigral 



6 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 400. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Desmognathus quadrimaculata (Holbrook). 



Seventeen examples: Pennsylvania; Virginia (Giles County); 

 North Carolina (Henderson County) ; Tennessee (Doe Run on Roan 

 Mountain). Of this series two specimens without locality. 



Desmognathus brimleyorum Stejneger. 



One from Little Rock, Arkansas (Dr. A. E. Brown in 1902). 



Desmognathus fusoa (Rafinesque). 



A very large series: New Brunswick (St. Johns River); Massa- 

 chusetts (Berkshire Hills); New York (Haines Falls in Catskills); 

 New Jersey (Swartswood Lake, Morristown, Trenton, Big Timber 

 Creek, Clement's Bridge, Pennsville, Salem) ; Delaware (Brandywine 

 Creek and Greenville); Maryland (Dove Run, Jennings, Piney 

 Creek and Conowingo); Alabama (Auburn); Tennessee (Walden 

 Ridge) ; Indiana (Hanover College) . 



The very large Pennsylvania series from the following counties: 

 Allegheny (Pittsburgh), Berks (Monocacy), Blair (Altoona), Bucks 

 (Langhorne), Chester, Clinton (Tamarack Swamp), Delaware 

 (Naylor's Run, Wawa and Whetstone Run), Green ( Waynesburg) , 

 Indiana (Brick Pond, Indiana, Marsh Run, Lucus Pond, Saltgiver 

 Run, Two Lick Creek and Two Lick Hills), Juniata (Tuscarora), 

 Lancaster (Paradise and Peters Creek), Lehigh (Lehigh Gap), 

 McKean (Port Allegany), Mifflin (Newton Hamilton and Sugar 

 Valley Run), Montgomery (Devon, Gladwyne, Mill Creek, Over- 

 brook, opposite Lafayette), Northampton (Belfast), Perry (Fox 

 Hollow), Potter (Brooklyn and Seven Bridges), Philadelphia 

 (Schuylkill River, Fairmount Park, Olney, Frankford, Holmesburg, 

 La Grange, Bustleton), Susquehanna (Broad Top Mountain), 

 Warren (White Pond) and York (Peach Bottom). 



Desmognathus fusoa auriculata (Holbrook). 



Twenty-two examples: North Carolina (Lake Waccamaw); South 

 Carolina (Manning); Georgia; Florida (Miami). Three specimens 

 are without data. 

 Desmognathus ochrophaea Cope. 



A large series: New Brunswick (St. Johns River); New York 

 (Clinton County, Haines Falls, Catskills); Pennsylvania (Tamarack 

 Swamp in Clinton County; Indiana, Two Lick Creek and Two Lick 

 Hills in Indiana County; Ganoga and Harvey Lakes in Luzerne 

 County; Port Allegany in McKean County; Brooklyn, Gold and 

 Seven Bridges in Potter County; Eagles Mere in Sullivan County; 

 Broad Top Mountain in Susquehanna County; Warren in Warren 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



County); Maryland (Jennings and Garrett County), The further 

 study of the allied species of Desmognathus fusca has convinced us 

 that this species is valid, contrary to the views set forth by AUen^ 

 and later by Fowler.^ 



Typhlotriton spelaeus Stejneger. 



Three from Marble Cave in Missouri (E. D. Cope in 1893). 



Autodax lugubris (Hallowell). 



Salamandra lugubris Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1848, p. 126, 

 Monterey, California. (No. 1,257, A. N. S. P., type. Dr. Townsend.) 



Also twelve other examples from California (San Francisco, 



Santa Barbara and San Jose), eight of which without localit^^ 



Autodax iecanus (Cope). 



Plcthodon iecanus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, p. 24. Near 

 the United States fish-hatching establishment on the McCloud River, 

 in Shasta County, California. (No. 14,061, A. N. S. P., paratype.) 



Plethodon metcalfi Brimley. 



Thirteen specimens collected by Mr. Rhoads on Roan IMountain 



at 4,000 to 5,000 feet elevation in Tennessee. They were wrongly 



identified as Amhystotna jeffersonianum.^ We refer them to the 



present species as Mr. Brimley states in his description^" that the 



dentition is like that of Plethodon glutinosus. In our specimens the 



vomerines extend beyond the nares, as they do in P. glutinosus, 



while in Brimley 's figure they are shown just reaching the nares. 



The dentition of our examples is intermediate between that of 



P. glutinosus and the species from Pennsylvania we describe as new. 



The vomerine series are larger in the Roan Mountain specimens than 



in the Pennsylvania form, but shorter than in P. glutinosus. Costal 



grooves 14 or 15, 



Plethodon wehrlei sp. nov. Plate IV. 



Dentition about as in P. glutinosus. No white spots on back or 

 color markings of any kind, and belly lighter than in P. glutinosus. 

 Toes webbed at base. Body more slender than that of P. glutinosus, 

 and with 17 costal grooves. 



Vomerine series of teeth scarcely arched, extending anteriorly 

 beyond the nares, internally far apart and scarcely would cross line 

 drawn forward from outside edge of parasphenoid series. They 

 contain but 8 teeth. The series are shorter than in P. glutinosus, not 



' Proc. Boston Sac. N. Hist., XXIX, 1901, p. 73. 



8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 356-357, PL 13. 



9 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 402. 



10 Proc. Biol. Soc. Wn.sh., XXV, 1912, p. 138, PL 6. Sunburst, Haywood 



County, North Carolina. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF , [Jan., 



extending so far inward, and contain fewer teeth. Parasphenoids 

 in an incompletely divided patch, as in P. glutinosus. Costal grooves 

 17, counting axillary and inguinal. Appressed limbs fail to meet 

 by 4| interspaces, compared with 3 in P. glutinosus. The whole 

 form of the body is much more slender, or slimmer, than that of 

 P. glutinosus, the tail longer and the head and body cylindrical 

 throughout. Toes webbed and with 2 joints free. 



Color bluish-plumbeous above and unmarked. Below brownish- 

 plumbeous, occasionally with a few small white spots along mid- 

 lateral line, where dark dorsal color fades into lighter ventral color. 

 Legs colored like body. Throat lighter than the belly and mottled 

 with white. 



Type, No. 19,123, A. N. S. P. Adult female 138 mm. long. Two 

 Lick Hills, Indiana County, Pennsylvania. September, 1911. R. W. 

 Wehrle. 



Also paratypes, all A. N. S. P., as follows: No. 4,799, Tuscarora, 

 Juniata County, Pennsylvania, September, 1896 (S. N. Rhoads); 

 No. 17,231, Port Allegany, McKean County, Pennsylvania, June 9, 

 1906 (T. D. Keim and Henry W. Fowler); No. 19,066, Indiana, 

 Indiana County, Pennsylvania, fall, 1908 (R. W. Wehrle); Nos. 

 19,114 and 19,115, Two Lick Hills, Indiana County, Pennsylvania, 

 September, 1911 (R. W. Wehrle); Nos. 19,118 and 19,124, same 

 data as last. 



This new salamander appears to be closely related to P, metcalfi 

 Brimley, except that it is slimmer and with more costal grooves. 

 It is probably a northern offshoot of that form. Further, it appears 

 isolated, and, with the present state of our knowledge, necessary to 

 admit it as distinct. Quite remarkable is the fact that it should 

 have remained so long unnoticed or confused with P. glutinosus. 

 The maximum length of our examples is 139 mm., and the minimum 

 length 44 mm. 



(Named for Mr. R. W. Wehrle, who collected most of our examples, 

 and also presented many local collections of cold-blooded vertebrates 

 to the Academy.) 



Plethodon erythronotus (Green). 



Salamandra erythronota Green, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., I, 1818, p. 356. 



New Jersey. (Nos. 1,227 to 1,238, A. K S. P., types of this and the 



following. Dr. Bache.) 

 Salamandra cinerea Green, I.e., New Jersey. 



A very large series of both color phases examined from : Quebec 

 (Lac Aux Sables); Massachusetts (Nantucket); New Jersey (Sussex 

 County, Swartswood Lake, Cedar Lake in Warren County, Borden- 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



town, Cape May, Dias Creek and Higbee's Beach); Delaware 

 (Brandywine Creek between Du Fonts and Rockland, Greenville, 

 Newark and Seaford); Maryland (Bohemia Manor, Chestertown, 

 The Rocks, Willards, Jennings); North Carolina (French Broad 

 River); Tennessee (Rock Creek, Roan Mountain and Bellevue); 

 Missouri (Chadwick); Arkansas (Roger and Magazine Mountain). 



Very many from the following counties in Fennsylvania: Berks 

 (Monocacy), Bucks (Woodbourne and Langhorne), Delaware (Cobbs 

 Creek, Chester Heights, Langford's Run, Wawa, Chadds Ford), 

 Fayette (Ohiopyle), Luzerne (Ganoga Lake), McKean (Port Alle- 

 gany), Indiana (Indiana, Two Lick Creek and Besnham Run), 

 Monroe (Saylor's Lake and Bartonville), Montgomery (Valley Forge, 

 Gladwyne, Centerville and Devon), Philadelphia (Wissahickon 

 Creek, Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Germantown, Frankford, 

 Holmesburg, Rowlands, La Grange), Pike (Dingmans Ferry), Potter 

 (Gold), and York (York Furnace). 



Plethodon glutinosus (Green). 



A large series from : New York (Casanova) ; New Jersey (Kingwood 

 and Swartswood Lake); Pennsylvania (Broad Top Mountain at 

 Altoona, New Hope, Ohiopyle, Diamond Valley; Indiana County 

 at Two Lick Hills, Two Lick Creek, Burnhamer Run and Indiana; 

 Bartonville, Pike County, Eagles Mere, Franklin, Warren and York 

 Furnace); Maryland (Jennings); South Carolina; Georgia (Chicka- 

 mauga); Alabama (Uniontown); Ohio; Tennessee (Chattanooga, 

 Raleigh, Sawyers Spring, Murfreesboro, Samburg at Reelfoot Lake 

 and Knoxville); Missouri (Chadwick); Arkansas (Blue Mountain 

 Station, Petit Jean Mountain and Magazine Mountain). 



Plethodon aeneus Cope. 



Am. Nat., XV, 1881, p. 878. Nickajack Cave, Tennessee. (No. 10,461; 

 A. N. S. P., type.) 



Also three examples from Sawyer's Spring, Tennessee (S. N.. 

 Rhoads on May 29, 1895). 



The type shows the parasphenoid with an imperfect median 

 division, as teeth occur at several intervals in the line of division. 

 In the largest example from Sawyer's Spring the parasphenoid patch 

 is complete, and the smallest specimen is 31.5 mm. long. 



Plethodon intermedius Baird. 



One from Willamette Valley, Oregon (0. B. Johnson). 



Plethodon crassulus Cope. 



Two without locality (E. D. Cope). 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Plethodon oregonensis (Girard). 



Six examples from California (Sausalito and Russian River). 

 Three also from the "Northwest Exploring Expedition." 



Hemidactylium scutatum (Schlegel). 



Thirteen from : New Jersey (Cape May and Swartswood Lake) ; 

 Pennsylvania (Fallsington) ; Indiana (Brookville) ; Illinois (Chicago) . 



Batrachoseps attenuatus Eschscholtz. 



Fifty examples from California (Russian River, Oakland, San 

 Francisco, Santa Cruz and Santa Barbara). There is considerable 

 variation in this series. Specimens from San Francisco and Santa 

 Barbara are smaller and darker than specimens from the Russian 

 River and Oakland. The proportions seem about the same, though 

 the tails are longer in the Oakland lot than in any of the others. 



Batrachoseps pacificus (Cope) is said by Van Denburgh^^ to be 

 restricted to the islands off the coast, and thus Santa Barbara is not 

 the type locality, as he points out very clearly. Our two specimens 

 from Santa Barbara, though in rather poor condition, are certain!}^ 

 not this form, agreeing best with B. attenuatus. 



A specimen from Pasadena, California (H. N. Rust), represents 

 B. major Camp. The legs are stouter than in any of our large series 

 of B. attenuatus. There is also no trace of the lateral stripe usually 

 so prominent in that species. 



Batrachoseps nigriventris Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869, p. 98. Ft. Tejon, California. (Nos. 

 481 and 482, A. N. S. P., types, Dr. G. H. Horn.) 



We cannot see that these two specimens differ in any way from 



small and dark examples of B. attenuatus. The fore limb does not 



reach to the angle of the mouth, much less "nearly to the orbit," 



and the hind limb extends over only four costal interspaces instead 



of six. 



SALAMANDRID^. 



Salamandra perspicillata (Savi). 



Fourteen from Italy (C. L. Bonaparte) and four from Dalmatia. 



Salamandra salamandra (Linn6). 



Twenty examples: Europe; Italy (C. L. Bonaparte); Taurus 

 Mountains in Asia Minor (Drs. S. A. S. and D. G. Metheny). 



Salamandra atra Laurenti. 



Three from Europe. 



" Proc. Cat. Acad. Sci., (3) IV, No. 1, 1905, pp. 6-7. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Hemisalamandra cristata (Laurenti). 



One hundred and eight from: German}^; Austria (Vienna); France 

 (Paris); Italy (C. L. Bonaparte); England (Hampton and Middle- 

 sex). 



Triturus marmoratus (Latreille). 



Six examples from: Portugal; France (Nantes in Bretagne) ; Italy 

 (C. L. Bonaparte). 



Triturus italicus Peracca. 



Two from Potenzo, Bosilicata. 



Triturus alpestris Laurenti. 



Fifty examples from Brussels in Belgium, and Switzerland (C. L. 



Bonaparte). 



Triturus crocatus (Cope). 



Neurergus crocatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 343. Oorc- 

 miah, Persia. (No. 1,480, A. N. S. P., type. M. Amherst.) 



This is undoubtedly a Triturus, as subsequently stated by Cope. 



Triturus vulgaris (Linnd). 



Seventy-eight examples: Europe; England (London); Italy (C. L. 

 Bonaparte). 



PLEURODELID^. 

 Diemictylus viridescens (Rafinesque). 



A very large series from: New York (Catskills, Haines Creek, 

 Adirondacks and Rockaway Beach on Long Island); New Jersey 

 (Lake ^lashipicong and Round Island in Sussex County) ; Delaware 

 (Newark) ; Maryland (Oakland in Allegany County and Jennings) ; 

 ^'irgima (Franklin County); North Carolina (Henderson County 

 and Cranberry); South Carolina; Georgia; Florida (Jacksonville); 

 Tennessee (Samburg at Reelfoot Lake); Ohio; Indiana (Brookville) ; 

 Kentucky (Mammoth Cave) ; Indian Territory ( Wister) . 



Also large series from the following counties in Pennsylvania: 

 Berks (Douglassville), Blair (Altoona), Bradford (Minequa Springs), 

 Cameron (Emporium), Carbon (Mauch Chunk), Chester, Clinton. 

 Delaware (Whetstone Run), Fayette (Ohiopyle), Lehigh (Lehigh 

 Gap), Luzerne (Ganoga and Harvey Lakes), Indiana (Two Lick 

 Hills, Two Lick Creek, Simpson's Run and Indiana), Monroe 

 (Saylor's Lake, Tunkhanna Creek and ]\It. Pocono), Montgomery 

 (Valley Forge), McKean (Cole Grove and Port Allegany), Northamp- 

 ton (Hellertown), Pike (Rocky Hill Pond), Potter, Sullivan (Shady 

 Nook), York (York Furnace). 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [Jan.^ 



Diemictylus viridescens meridionalis Cope. 



Four from Texas (Helotis and San Diego). 

 Diemictylus torosus (Eschscholtz). 



Forty-six examples from : British Columbia (Victoria and Hatzic) ; 

 Washington (Tacoma); Oregon (Willamette Valley and Astoria); 

 California (Sausalito, San Francisco, Body Bay, McCloud and 

 Russian Rivers, and Pasadena). 

 Diemictylus montandoni (Boulenger). 



Six from Brosteni, Moldania. 



Diemictylus palmatus (Schneider). 



Forty-seven from: Europe; France (Paris); England (Epping 

 Forest in Essex); Italy (C. L. Bonaparte). 



Diemictylus rusconii (Gen6). 



Seven from Italy and Sardinia (both C. L. Bonaparte). 

 Diemictylus vittatus (Jenyns). 



Two labelled "France" likely from Syria ? 

 Diemictylus asper (Duges). 



Two from the Pyrenees. 

 Diemictylus pyrogaster (Boie). 



Thirty-eight from Japan. 

 Pleurodeles waltlii Michah. 



Three from Portugal and Spain (C. L, Bonaparte). 



Explanation of Plates III and IV. _ 



Plate III. — Ambystoma tigrinum (Green). Showing extremes of variation. 

 All slightly reduced. 



Plate IV. — Pleihodon wehrlei Fowler and Dunn. Type. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



February 20. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., in the Chair. 



Fifty-six persons present. 



The Pubhcation Committee reported that papers under the 

 following titles had been presented for publication: 



"Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho in 1916. Part II," by 

 Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels. (January 19, 1917.) 



"Notes on the anatoni}' of Oreohelix. II," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 (January 19.) 



"The reproductive organs of Epiphragmophora callistoderma, " 

 bj' Henry A. Pilsbry. (January 19.) 



"The anatomy of an Eolid, Chiorgera daUi, " b}^ Harold Heath. 

 (February 8.) 



"Mollusca of the Southwestern States. VIII: The Black Range, 

 New ]\Iexico," by H. A. Pilsbry and J. H. Ferris. (February 12.) 



"Notes on fishes from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and IMaryland, " 

 by Henry W. Fowler. (February 21.) 



"A second collection of fishes from the Panama Canal Zone," 

 by Henry W. Fowler. (February 21.) 



The deaths of Edwin A. Barber, December 12, 1916, and of Andrew 

 C Craig, Jr., January 18, 1917, members, were announced. 



The death of H, Emile Sauvage, a correspondent, January, 1917, 

 was also announced. 



On the unanimous nomination of the Committee on the Hayclen 

 ]\Iemorial Geological Award and with the approval of the Council, 

 the gold Hayden Memorial Medal w^as conferred on William Morris 

 Davis, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Geology in Harvard University, 

 in recognition of his distinguished work in geological science. 



William Morris Davis was born in Philadelphia on February 

 12, 1850. He was educated at Harvard University, where he received 

 the degree of B.S. in 1869. He received the honorary degree of 

 Sc.D. at the University of Cape of Good Hope at Cape Town in 

 1905, the degree of Ph.D. at the University of Greifswald in 1906, 

 and the same degree at Christiana in 1911. He is a Chevalier de la 

 Legion d'Honneur. 



Dr. Davis has conducted many geological investigations, and in 

 his work has travelled widely in the United States and foreign coun- 

 tries. His published writings show a remarkable versatility and 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



diversity in scientific interest, for he has become prominent not only 

 in pure geology, but in geography, meteorology and other allied 

 subjects. 



His early geological efforts were devoted largely to structural 

 geology, as seen in his work in Montana in 1883 and his later work 

 on the Triassic Formation of Connecticut, published by the United 

 States Geological Survey. Such researches led him into physiographic 

 geology, which he aptly describes as "the relation of structure, 

 process and stage in determining surface form"; and from physio- 

 graphic geology he branched out into physical geography, which in 

 later years has occupied much of his time, and in which he is recog- 

 nized as one of the foremost authorities in the world. His conception 

 of the relation of geology and geography is clearly brought out in 

 his presidential address to the Geological Society of America, 1911-12. 



In the meantime, however, he had not confined himself altogether 

 to geology and geography. He was assistant at the Argentine 

 National Observatory, Cordoba, Argentina, from 1870 to 1873; 

 while later on at Harvard University he taught at different times 

 geology, meteorology and geography. At Harvard he was success- 

 ively Assistant 1876-7, Instructor 1878-85, Assistant Professor 

 1885-90, Professor of Physical Geography 1890-99, Sturgis-Hooper 

 Professor of Geology 1899-1912, and Professor Emeritus 1912 to 

 the present time. 



Notwithstanding his many years of teaching at Harvard University, 

 he found time to travel widely and write numerous scientific books 

 and papers. In 1877-78 he toured the world in scientific study; 

 in 1903 he was a member of Pumpelly's Carnegie Institution Expedi- 

 tion to Turkestan; in 1895 he visited South Africa as the guest of 

 the British Association for the Advancement of Science. He was 

 Visiting Professor at the University of Berlin in 1908-9, and at the 

 University of Paris in 1911-12. 



Among some of the most important contributions of Dr. Davis 

 to science are his work in structural geology in Montana and Con- 

 necticut, already mentioned; his work on the evolution of form and 

 drainage, as seen in his studies of the River Valleys of Pennsylvania 

 in 1889, the River Valleys of Northern New Jersey in 1889, the 

 Grand Canyon in 1890, and the Seine, Meuse, Moselle in 1896; his 

 work on the nature of mountain forms, as seen in his studies of the 

 Great Basin Ranges in 1903 and in the Turkestan Expedition in 

 1904. Glacial geology, the nature of arid regions in America and 

 Africa, volcanoes and coral reefs are also subjects on which Dr. Davis 

 has spent much time and thought and published numerous papers. 



Thus the total contributions of Dr. Davis to science cover a wide 

 field. His numerous text-books relate to various geological and 

 allied subjects and are widely used; his many papers, memoirs, and 

 other contributions to scientific literature include a remarkably 

 broad range of subjects in geology, geography, meteorology, and 

 allied sciences. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Mrs. Arthur R. Iliff made a communication on the Taos 

 Indians of New Mexico, finely illustrated by photographs taken by 

 herself. (No abstract.) 



Ezra Allen was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



OLIGOCENE FOSSILS FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF CARTAGENA, COLOMBIA, 

 WITH NOTES ON SOME HAITIAN SPECIES. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND AMOS P. BROWN. 



The material described below was collected by Mr. Lloyd B. Smith 

 in 1914, in the course of professional work in the vicinitj^ of Cartagena, 

 chiefly near the so-called "mud volcanoes" and at Cenizas. Most 

 or all of them seem to be from Upper Oligocene beds, about equivalent 

 in age to the Gatun in the Canal Zone. 



A few fossils collected by Mr. Smith in the following year in Haiti 

 are also described. Their chief interest is in adding to the evidence 

 of extensive Oligocene beds south of the main range of the island. 

 The species made known up to this time are not sufficient to fix the 

 position of these beds in the Oligocene series.^ 



When not otherwise specified, the species mentioned are from near 

 Cartagena. 



Conus proteus Hwass. 



A specimen showing fewer color-spots than the recent C. proteus. 



Conus molis B. and P. 

 Conus imitator B. and P. 

 Conus semulator B. and P. 

 Conus gaza P. and J. 



These four species were described from the Gatun bed. 



Tunis cartagenensis n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 1. 



A species grouping with T. henekeni (Sowerby) of Santo Domingo, 

 from which it differs by the greater number and smaller size of 

 longitudinal folds— ten on the last whorl. Form, sculpture and 

 structure of the anal fasciole are as in the Santo Domingan species. 

 Length of the broken shell figured, 36.5 mm. 



Drillia gatunensis Toula. 



Canoellaria dariena Toula. 



Mitra longa Gabb. 



Marginella mediocris n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 2. 



A species related to M. latissima Dall, but differs from the narrowest 

 specimens of that by its much narrower contour. The outline 



1 See also a brief paper by one of us in Proc. Acad. N.\t. Sci. Phila., 1910, 

 p. 487. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



below the shoulder is but slightly convex. The spire is quite low, 

 rising very little above the posterior level of the outer lip. The lip 

 is not very broad, moderately thick, with a slight ledge behind; its 

 inner edge bears about 16 small, unequal teeth. The four columellar 

 folds are about equal, the lower ones being more oblique than in 

 M. latissima, and not so strong. 



Length 13.7, diameter 8.7 mm. 



There is also a fragment of a much larger Marginella, not deter- 

 minable. 



Oliva sayana immortua n. subsp. PI. 5, fig. 6. 



The shell differs from the recent 0. sayana (litterata) by being 

 smaller, less broad at the base, the sutural channel broader and deeper, 

 and the ledge which encircles the shell above the siphonal fasciole 

 is closer to the upper siphonal plait at the edge of the apertural 

 callus. The outer lip is well thickened, indicating maturity. 



Length 41, greatest diameter 18.4 mm. 



Three other specimens are somewhat smaller, but show the same 

 ■characters. 



•Strombina cartagenensis n. sp. PI. .5, fig. 3. 



The shell is fusiform with a rather -long spire of 7| whorls; the 

 earlier ones worn, the later having sculpture of rather narrow, very 

 slightly curved longitudinal ribs, crossed by a group of about 7 

 inconspicuous spirals in the upper part, and strongly developed spiral 

 cords about as wide as their intervals on the lower half of the last 

 whorl, about 18 in number. The longitudinal ribs, of which there 

 are 12 on the penultimate whorl, become shorter on the back of the 

 last whorl, where they scarcely extend to the middle. There is a 

 very thick and high varix behind the outer lip. The aperture is 

 about three-fifths the length of the shell, narrow; outer lip heavily 

 calloused, the callus bearing about 10 teeth. The columellar lip 

 forms a thin, raised ledge. 



Length 26.8, diameter 11.3 mm.; length of aperture 15.2 mm. 



This species differs from the Panamic and Santo Domingan forms 

 by its rounded periphery, without dorsal or ventral humps. 



Strombina lloydsmithi n. sp. PI. 5, fig. i. 



The shell is quite small, with the greatest width about at the 

 anterior third of the length. Whorls 9, the first three convex, 

 forming the smooth embrj'onic shell. The remaining whorls of the 

 spire are flat, sculptured with straight longitudinal ribs about equal 

 to their intervals, faint traces of two or three impressed spiral lines 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



visible in some of the intervals. The last whorl is convex, having 

 ribs like those of the spire on the front, none on the back, but two 

 precede the small, smooth lip-varix. The intercostal intervals are 

 marked with deeply impressed spiral grooves, obsolete on the crests 

 of the ribs on the front, and on the smooth dorsal patch, but passing 

 over the ribs behind the lip. The outer lip has a heavy callus within, 

 bearing about 9 teeth, the upper ones stronger. The columella 

 bears a series of 8 teeth. The columellar edge is slightly raised, and 

 there is a very heavy callus upon the body at the posterior commissure 

 of the aperture. 



Length 10.5, diam. 5.7 mm.; length of aperture 6 mm. 



Solenosteira dalli Brown and Pilsbry. 

 Murex gatunensis Brown and Pilsbry. 

 Murex pomum Cimelin. 

 Typhis linguiferus Dall. 



Typhis linguiferus Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, pt. 1, p. 152, PI. 12, fig. 7. 



The single specimen agrees well with the description and figure of 

 Ball's Chipola species, except that the spines on the varices are 

 erect instead of curved. 



Cassis monilifera Guppy. 

 Polinices mammillaris (Lam.). 

 Potamides avus n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 5. 



A species closely related to P. pacificus Sowerby, but differing by 

 the different shape of the last whorl. The coronal tubercles are 

 situated higher, directed somewhat upward, and there is no hump 

 on the base in front of the aperture. The surface is strongly striate 

 spirally. The inner lip has a distinct callous ridge near the posterior 

 commissure of the aperture. There are about ten of the pointed 

 tubercles on the last whorl. 



This appears to be an ancestor of the recent species, which has 

 more exaggerated sculpture. 



Turritella cartagenensis n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 13. 



The whorls are nearly flat, but there is a slight concavity in the 

 upper half and they are a little prominent below the suture; the 

 periphery has a rounded prominence, visible above the suture. The 

 light lines of growth are strongly retractive from the upper edge to 

 below the middle of the visible surface of each whorl, then curving 

 and becoming vertical or slightly protractive in the rest of their 

 course. Spiral sculpture of unequal, unevenly spaced threads of 

 various sizes, distinct but in low relief. There is^a noticeable cingulus 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



formed by a couple of contiguous threads on a slight elevation, at 

 the lower fourth of the whorls. The base is somewhat convex, and 

 shows four very low, wide spiral welts, with the same finer spirals 

 as the upper surface. The parietal callus is heavy. Length of the 

 fragment figured 47 mm.; diameter, 24.5 mm. 

 Turritella lloydsmithi n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 11. 



This large species has some resemblance to T. gatunensis, the taper 

 being about the same. The whorls are flat except at the periphery 

 (or above the suture) where they bulge a little. This is most marked 

 on the later whorls. The very faint growth-lines are slightly arcuate. 

 Sculpture of about six low spiral cords unevenly spaced, those on the 

 bulging lower part being coarser. The base shows about 7 strong 

 spiral cords; over all there is a minute sculpture of unequal spiral 

 threads. The suture is impressed and distinct. A specimen retaining 

 five whorls measures 64.6 mm. long, 23.8 mm. in greatest diameter. 



This species differs from T. subgrundifera and its allies by the 

 sculpture, and from T. gatunensis by sculpture and the shape of the 

 whorls, which are not excavated above. 



Turritella subgrundifera Dall. 



Turritella suhgrimdijera Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, pt. 2, 1892, p. 313^ 

 PI. 22, fig. 23. 



We are unable to distinguish these specimens from subgruyidifera 

 . from near Bailey's Ferry, Chipola River, of which we have compared 

 a good series. Whether T. atacta Dall of the Tampa silex bed differs 

 specifically seems somewhat doubtful, but the specimens known are 

 smaller. 

 Turritella domingensis n. sp. PI. 5, figs. 7, 7a, 9. 



In the adult stage there are two approximate spiral cords, one at, 

 the other above the periphery. Above this there are five spiral 

 threads, the upper two close together, the others about equally 

 spaced. The median part of the whorl is lightly concave, with very 

 strongly arched growth-ridges at wide intervals. Over all there is a 

 minute sculpture of slightly waved, irregular, sometimes anastomosing 

 striae, spiral and parallel on the lower part of the whorl, converging 

 forward from each growth-ridge on the median part of the whorl. 

 In the young shells, up to over 20 mm. in length, the ridge above 

 the suture is acute and strong, the median concavity and the superior 

 convexity are much more marked, and usually some of the median 

 threads are beaded. The largest piece, of about 3 whorls, measures: 

 length 37.3, diam. 18 mm. 



Santo Domingo, W. M. Gabb. Type No. 2611, A. N. S. P. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



This is T. exoleta Linn, of Gabb's Geology of Santo Domingo, 

 p. 240. 



Differs from T. megalohasis by having the early whorls more 

 elaborately sculptured than the later, not smoother, as in megalohasis. 

 It also tapers more gradually. Fig. la was inadvertently inverted. 



With the preceding species in the Gabb collection there is one 

 specimen probably referable to T. megalohasis, from which it differs 

 only by having the same microscopic sculpture described for T. do- 

 mingensis, and which is not visible on the small specimens of megalo- 

 hasis at hand. It tapers much more rapidly than T. domingensis. 

 Part of a whorl is shown magnified in PI. 5, fig. 14 (the figure in- 

 verted) . 



Turritella tornata Guppy. 



TurrUeUa tornata Guppy, Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of 

 London, vol. XXII, 1866, p. 580, PL 26, fig. 12 (Cumana, Venezuela, 

 type loc). 



The Colombian specimens are all fragmentary, but have the 

 typical shape and sculpture. -The largest piece, of slightly over 

 3 whorls, measures 20 mm. in basal diameter, 41 mm. long. 



This species was also taken by W. M. Gabb in Santo Domingo, 

 the specimens smaller, and varying some in sculpture. An ancestral 

 form of T. perattenuata was found with them in the Gabb collection.^ 

 T. perattenuata of the Pliocene is clearly distinct from tornata by its 

 much slower taper, though all of the group are closely related. The 

 sculptural development of the series reached its acme in the upper 

 Oligocene when the most highly sculptured species, T. altilira, 

 became extinct. 

 Turritella calostemma n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 15. 



The shell resembles T. altilira Conrad. It is very long and tapers 

 slowly; the whorls are rather narrow, and the suture is not obvious. 

 The growth-lines are deeply arched across the visible part of the 

 whorls. On each whorl there is a high, narrow spiral ridge at the 

 upper fourth, its summit set with oblique tubercles. In the concave 

 interval following there are numerous spiral striae and a slightly 



2 Turritella perattenuata prcecellens n. subsp., PL 5, fig. 12. Even more slender 

 than perattenuata, the upper of the two prominent beaded cinguli being double, 

 the lower more acute, and in the later stages both are higher. There are several 

 small cords in the median concavity, three being more prominent than the others. 

 The growth-lines are inconspicuous, and retract strongly in the upper half of 

 the whorls. All of the specimens are broken. 



Length 57.5, basal diam. 8 mm.; 18 whorls. 

 ■ " 40 " " 1.3.7 " 5§ " 

 Cotypes No. 2608, A. N. S. P., collected by Wm. M. Gabb in Santo Domingo. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



larger beaded central thread. Below the middle there is a second 

 but narrower spiral ridge, slightly tubereulate, and near the lower 

 edge there is a stronger spiral ridge, with convex, spirally striate, 

 weakly tubereulate summit. The specimens are fragmentary, but 

 indicate a length of at least 75 mm.; diameter of the largest fragment, 

 18 mm. It tapers a little more rapidly than T. aUilira. 



Haiti, 20 miles west of Azua. Also from between Las Cahobas and 

 Thomonde; collected by Mr. Lloyd B. Smith, 1914. 



This species differs from T. altilira by having three major spiral 

 ridges, the loAver two nearer together. In altilira and tornata there 

 are but two, and the upper one is sometimes doubled more or less 

 distinctly. In T. calostemma the upper ridge is simple. 



T. calostemma and T. altilira seem to be two lateral branches of 

 the T. tornata stock, highly accelerated in sculpture, reaching their 

 acme and becoming extinct in the upper Oligocene, while descendants 

 of the less specialized tornata stock held on to the Pliocene. Its last 

 incarnation, T. perattenuata, shows little advance in sculpture 

 beyond the Oligocene tornata; but it is specialized — probably over- 

 specialized — by its extraordinary length and large number of whorls. 



Petaloconchus domingensis Sowb. 

 Dentalium solidissimum n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 8. 



Known by a fragment which tapers rather slowly and is almost 

 circular in section. The shell is very solid, at the lower breach the 

 walls at least 3 mm. thick. It is sculptured with high ribs slightly 

 narrower than their intervals, their crests and the intervals being 

 rather strongly crenulated by circular strise. The superficial layer 

 has scaled off in great part, so that the finer sculpture described may 

 perhaps be due to wear. There are 28 primary ribs, and near the 

 larger end a few small interstitial riblets appear. Total length of 

 the fragment, 28.2 mm.; greatest diameter 15.8 mm.; diameter 

 14 mm. at the smaller end. 



This is probably a Fissidentalium, and from the fragment seems 

 intermediate between candidum and megathyris in taper. 



Dentalium cartagenense n. sp. PI. 5, fig. 10. 



A species of the group of Dentalium disparile. Moderately curved, 

 having seven angles, the intervals concave at the smaller, flat at the 

 larger end. The two intervals bounding the keel on the concave 

 side are wider than the others, and the three forming the curve of 

 the convex side are decidedly narrower than the rest. Intervals 

 have a few. longitudinal threads at the smaller end, increasing with 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



growth, so that at the larger end there are 27 cords in all. The 

 growth-lines are inconspicuous. The shell is broken more or less at 

 both ends. 



Length 19.4 mm.; antero-posterior diameter at larger end 3.7; 

 lateral diameter 3.9 mm.; lateral diameter at smaller end 2.4 mm. 



Pitar (Hysteroconcha) casta n. sp. PL 6, fig. 4. 



The shell is oblong with small, rather plump beaks. Sculpture 

 of continuous, smooth concentric ridges, their edges overhanging the 

 succeeding intervals a little, and some of them broadened into 

 lamellae at the anterior end. They are not enlarged or interrupted 

 posteriorly, and there are no spines. Between the concentric ridges 

 there are fine growth-lines, some of them larger, thread-like. Lunule 

 defined by a groove, radially striate. Interior not seen. Length 

 about 26 mm.; height 19 mm.; semidiameter 6 mm. 



The sole specimen is partially imbedded in material too hard to 

 be removed, so that the internal characters and posterior end could 

 not be examined. The sculjiture, however, is very perfectly pre- 

 served and characteristic, and leaves very little doubt that the shell 

 is related to the recent P. dione (L.). The absence of spines would 

 be expected in an early member of the group. The concentric 

 lamellae are developed less than in P. dione, and turn downwards at 

 the edge. In contour P. casta stands nearer to P. lupanaria. 



Yoldia pisciformis n. sp. PI. 6, fig. 3. 



The shell is much lengthened, the posterior part decidedly atten- 

 uated (end broken), anterior end rounded. Surface nearly smooth, 

 but under a lens showing delicate, rather close grooves in harmony 

 with growth-lines, from the middle downward. A pair of extremely 

 low ribs run in a low curve from the beaks to the anterior-basal 

 margin. The teeth are very numerous, and appear to be about 

 equally so before and behind the beaks. 



Length, as broken, 50 mm.; height 22.6 mm.; diameter 10.8 mm. 



This is much broader than Y. limatula Say, with a sinuation in the 

 basal margin and various other differences. 



A small, very finely grooved Leda is represented by one broken 

 specimen. 



Area consobrina Sowerby. 



Glycymeris tumefactus n. sp. PI. 6, fig. 7. 



The shell is slightly inequilateral, very obese, with rather prominent 

 beaks. Sculpture of many (about 55) extremely low radial ribs, 

 somewhat wider than their intervals, and weak, coarse growth-lines. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



The convexity of the ribs is, in fact, barely perceptible, though they 

 are perfectly obvious to the eye. Where eroded quite superficially, 

 the ribs are reduced to flat spaces between slightly raised radii of 

 half their width, representing the intervals. With further erosion 

 the ribs are transformed into slightly concave radii with the edges a 

 little raised, and separated by very narrow, deeply bitten crevices 

 occupying the middle of the original intercostal valleys. With 

 further etching, the edges of the original ribs become more prominent, 

 the middle being eaten out, so that the effect is an even radial striation. 

 The basal margin is strongly toothed within. The cardinal area is 

 moderately wide. Teeth not examined. Height 44.4, diam. 32 mm.; 

 length about 42 mm. 



This species resembles G. gigantea Reeve of the west coast, and also 

 G. jamaicensis Dall, of the Bowden bed. It differs from both in 

 wanting very minute radial striae. 

 Glycymeris trilobioosta n. sp. PI. 6, fig. 5. 



The shell is compressed, equilateral, with small beaks; rather 

 thick. Sculpture of about 32 radial ribs, the small ones at the ends 

 simple, the rest brace-shaped ('— — ^) , their interstices narrow grooves ; 

 towards the beaks the cross-section becomes simpler, the ribs at 

 first being convex. Over the ribs there is a very regular, close 

 sculpture of minute concentric threads. The basal margin is toothed 

 within, as usual. Cardinal area small, having about 3 V-shaped 

 grooves. Teeth 12 on each side, rather long, smooth-sided, those of 

 the median part a little bent angularly. 



Height 14.6, length 14.5, semidiameter 4 mm. 



The peculiar form of the ribs and the beautiful concentric sculpture 

 over them are the chief characters of this species. 

 Glycymeris lloydsmithi n. sp. PI. 6, fig. 6. 



The shell is moderately convex, slightly inequilateral, the margins 

 somewhat straightened on both sides of the umbo. Sculpture of 

 about 27 very low, broad, rounded ribs, rapidly . becoming weaker 

 towards the base, faint on the anterior end, which is bisected by an 

 indistinct radial angulation, as in G. jamaicensis and some recent 

 Antillean species. No secondary radial striation can be seen. The 

 cardinal area is very small, not grooved. There are 11 teeth before 

 and 12 behind the beaks; most of the posterior teeth and a few of the 

 anterior being angularly bent. The articulating faces of all of the 

 teeth have very minute striation vertical to the tooth. The lower 

 half of the inner margin of the shell shows about 20 prominences of 

 the usual form. 




40 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



Height 29.2, length 28, semidiameter 9 mm. 



The ribs weaken rapidly towards the base, where they almost 

 disappear, reminding one of G. suhovata (Say). G. jamaicensis Dali 

 differs by its greater length, much less arched hinge line and fine 

 striation. 



Ostrea vaughani insularis n. subsp. PI. 6, figs. 1, la. 



The common large oyster of Santo Domingo resembles 0. vaughani, 

 as described and figm-ed by Dall, except in the following featm-es: 

 The beak is usually straight; the upper valve is very much smoother 

 than the lower, marked with growth-lines only, and it is usually 

 almost flat. The lower valve is thick, coarsely lamellar, not fluted, 

 and has a rather deep beak cavity. The valves have a sparse 

 denticulation inside near the hinge. Length of lower valve 106, 

 width 58 mm. It may perhaps be well to signalize these differences 

 by a subspecific name. 



Santo Domingo, W. M. Gabb. No. 2635, A. N. S. P. 



Ostrea cahobasensis n. sp. PI. 6, fig. 8. 



This oyster is similar to the preceding except that in a large 

 series of specimens none were found to have the inner margins of the 

 valves denticulate near the hinge. The upper valve is nearly flat 

 and is perhaps somewhat rougher than in insularis. Length 85 mm. 

 It often reaches a much" larger size, length 190 mm. or more. 



Haiti, in the mountains north of Lake Assuei, on the trail to 

 Las Cahobas, W. W. Webster; Arrondissement de Las Cahobas,. 

 G. Roumain; also south of Thomonde, Lloyd B. Smith. Occurs in 

 extensive beds composed almost wholly of oysters. 



Type No. 1308, A. N. S. P. 



Ostrea sculpturata osculum n. subsp. PI. 6, figs. 2, 2a. 



A small oyster of rounded or subtriangular shape, nearly equilateral. 

 The umbonal half is more or less obviously cuneate in outline, with 

 crenulated submargins; the opposite (basal) border is broadly rounded 

 and extremely sinuous, typically having two deep, angular plications 

 in each valve. The lower valve has a very shallow beak-cavity, the 

 flatter upper valve none. The adductor impression is strongly 

 lateral in position. Beaks are rather short and oblique, nearly equal 

 in the two valves. Length 42.5, width 39, cham. 37 mm. 



Some examples are flatter, with less emphatic and fewer plications. 

 It is certainly not identical with the recent 0. megodon. It differs 

 from 0. sculpturata by the reduced number and large size of the folds. 



Type No. 3037, A. N. S. P. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Explanation of Plates V and VI. 



Plate V. — Fig. 1. — Turris cartagenensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 2. — Marginella mediocris n. sp. 

 Fig. 3. — Stronibina cartagenensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 4. — Strotnbiiia lloydsmithi n. sp. 

 Fig. 5. — Pot amides aims n. sp. 

 Fig. 6. — Olim sayana immortua n. subsp. 

 Fig. 1 .—T urritella domingensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 7a. — Turritella domingensis. Part of the last whorl, enlarged. The 



figure is inverted. 

 Fig. 8. — Dentalium solidissimum n. sp. 

 Fig. 9. — Turritella domingensis, n. sp. Young shell. X 3. 

 Fig. 10. — Dentalium cartagenense n. sp. 

 Fig. 11. — Turritella lloydsmithi n. sp. 

 Fig. 12. — Turritella perattenuata 'prcecellens n. subsp. 

 Fig. 13. — Turritella cartagenensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 14. — Turritella megalobasis Dall. Part of a whorl much enlarged. 



The figure is inverted. 

 Fig. 15. — Turritella calostemma n. sp. 



Plate VI.— Figs. 1, la. — Ostrea vaughani insularis n. subsp. 



Figs. 2, 2a. — Ostrea sculpturala osculum n. subsp. Ventral and lateral views. 



Fig. 3. — Yoldia pisciforynis n. sp. 



Fig. 4. — Pilar casta n. sp. 



Fig. 5. — Glycymeris trilobicosta n. sp. 



Fig. 6. — Glycymeris lloydsmithi n. sp. 



Fig. 7. — Glycymeris tumefactus n. sp. 



Fig. 8. — Ostrea cahobasensis n. sp. Interior of deep valve. 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb, 



NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX. 11. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The following notes supplement those contained in these Proceed- 

 ings for 1916, pp. 340-359. With one exception they deal with 

 material collected by Professor Junius Henderson and Mr. L. E. 

 Daniels in Utah and Idaho, in 1916. A single species taken by 

 Mr. Ferriss in southern Nevada is also included. 

 Oreohelix haydeni and subspecies. Fig. 1. 



The typical form has not been rediscovered, but it is not likely to 

 differ materialh' in genitalia from the numerous forms of the species 

 already dissected. The several subspecies are much alike in soft 

 .anatomy; the chief cUfferentiation has been in the shells. The 

 researches of Messrs. Henderson and Daniels in 1916 have added 

 materially to our resources, particularly in northeastern Utah. 



Fig. 1. — a, Oreohelix haydeni hybrida, St. Charles, Idaho; c, Devil's Slide, Utah, 

 Station 54; b, 0. h. mixta, Glenwood Springs, Colo., Station 134. 



As the printer transposed several columns of my former table 

 of measurements,^ the entire series of measurements of genitalia is 

 given below. This replaces the table given in 1916. 



As 0. h. oquirrhensis form utahensis Hemph. was very inadequately 

 defined, and no type seems to have been selected, I name No. 23,051 

 A. N. S. P., as lectotype, in order to have a definite standard. This 

 specimen was described in Nautilus, XXIX, p. 141, April, 1916. 



1 Proc. a. N. S. Phila., 1916, p. 347. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



43 



Subspecies and Localities, 



O. h. gabbiana, 



Oquirrh Mts 



O. h. corrugata 



0. h. hybrida, 



near Logan Canyon 



St. Charles, Idaho 



Dewey ville, Utah 



Devil's Slide, Utah 



O. h. " iitahensis," 



Devil's Slide 



0. h. mixta., 



Glenwood Springs, Colo 



Type 



O. h. betheli 





C 

 o 



16 

 16.5 



16 



12 

 10 



16 



15 



12 



15.5 



17 



18 

 17.5 



19 



o a 





5.3 



4 



6 

 6.5 



5 

 5.5 



6.8 



7.7 



tn 



a, 



"a, 

 a; 



o 



5.5 

 5 



4.7 

 4 



5 



5.3 



5.3 



5.5 



6.3 

 6 



7.5 



\P-< 



11 



7 



9.5 

 9.3 



10 



18 

 8 



18+ 



bC 



bC 



1-1 



5.5 

 5 



5 



4 





MJ-T3 



17 



15 



21 



03 





20 

 18 



19 

 13 



16 

 18 



17 



15 

 16 



18.3 

 18 



22.5 



c 

 _o 

 '•♦3 



o3 



CO 



bC 



a 



o 



Station 15. 

 Station 40. 



Station 42. 



Station 77. 

 Station 77. 



Station 104. 



Station 54. 



Station 51. 



Station 134. 

 Station 134. 



94058 A. N. S. 

 94796 A. N. S. 



94059 A. N. S. 



Note. — In the last three entries the diameter of shell is from the specimens 

 dissected. In other cases it is from a medium specimen of lot. The collecting 

 stations mentioned are those of Henderson and Daniels' expedition of 1916. 



Oreohelix peripherica (Anc). Fig. 36. 



A view is given of the penis of a white specimen from Station 47, 

 Morgan, Utah. Length of penis 13 mm., of ribbed portion 5, of 

 epiphallus 4.5, of penial retractor 12 mm. (fig. 3&). 



0. p. wasatchensis (Hemph.) from Station 108 shows the same 

 proportions, though the absolute size is greater. Length of penis 

 20 mm., of internally ribbed part 8, of epiphallus 7, of penial retractor 

 15 mm. A specimen from Station 109 is identical in genitalia. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



An example of the rather elevated form of the color-form carneci 

 from City Creek Canyon, Salt Lake City, is similar to those already 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



figured in genitalia. Length of penis 27 mm., of internally ribbed 

 part 11, of epiphallus 7 mm. The distal part has a trilobed section. 

 Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.). 



Specimens dissected from four localities give the following measure- 

 ments of the male organs: 



Sta. 68, Sta. 69, Sta. 83, 



near near Sta. 73, near 



Montpelier, Montpelier, Paris, Garden City, 



Idaho. Idaho. Idaho. Utah. 



Length of penis 12.3 11 17 12 mm. 



L. internally ribbed part 



of penis 6.5 6.3 10 7 " 



L. epiphallus 4.6 6 6 4 " 



L. retractor penis 14 10 " 



Diam. of shell (approxi- 

 mate) 19 14 25 17 " 



As noted in a previous paper, this species is constantly distinguish- 

 able from 0. peripherica and the several forms of strigosa and haydeni 

 by having the internally ribbed part of the penis longer than the 

 papillose part; but 0. rugosa has the same proportions of the penis, 

 and can be distinguished from 0. cooperi only by shell characters, 

 which are not very definite. 

 Oreohelix hendersoni dakani Henderson. Fig. 2. 



Specimens from the type locality, Newcastle, Colo., were dissected. 

 The genitalia are similar to hendersoni, and unlike 0. rugosa, which 



Fig. 2. — Oreohelix hendersoni dakani, genitaUa. 



resembles 0. cooperi closely in soft anatomy. The distal part of the 

 penis of dakani has a trilobed transverse section. 



Length of penis, 21 mm.; of ribbed lower part 7.3 mm. 



Length of epiphallus, 6.3 mm. 

 Length of retractor p., 14 mm. 

 Length of vagina, 6 mm. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



45 



'Oreohelix tenuistriata Hend. and Dan. Fig. 3a. 



Topotypes dissected show that this is a species having genitalia 

 like haydeni and strigosa depressa. The length of penis is equal to 

 the diameter of the shell; the length of its internally ribbed lower 

 portion is contained 2| times in the total length. 



Length of penis, 



10 



mm.; of its internally ribbed portion 



4 mm. 

 Length of epiphallus, 2 mm. 



Length of retractor p., 6.5 mm. 



Length of vagina, 3 mm. 



Fig. 3. — a, Oreohelix tenuistriata. b, 0. peripherica, Morgan, Utah. 



The central and lateral teeth have sharp side cutting points, the 

 marginals with distinct cusps. There .are about 6 lateral teeth; but 

 the transition to marginals is very gradual. Jaw is striate, light 

 yellow. 



0. hemphilli and 0. carinifera, which approach tenuistriata in 

 characters of the shell, are unfortunately not known anatomically, 

 l)ut the forms nearest hemphilli have genitalia like 0. yavapai. 



Oreohelix hemphilli eurekensis Hend. and Dan. Fig. 4a. 



Topotypes dissected. It groups with 0. yavapai, having the 

 internally ribbed part of the penis more than half the total length, 

 the latter less than the diameter of the shell. We do not know the 

 genitalia of typical 0. hemphilli, but assuming that it is like eurekensis, 

 both should be transferred to the group containing 0. yavapai, 

 ■concentrata, metcalfei, pilsbryi and barbata. 



Length of penis, 4.4 mm. ; of ribbed portion 2.5 mm. 



Length of epiphallus, 2 mm. 

 Length of retractor p., 6 mm. 




46 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



There are distinct side cutting points on the central and two or 

 three lateral teeth, after which there are distinct side cusps. There 

 are about 7 lateral teeth. Transition to marginals very gradual. 



Oreoheliz handi Pilsbry and Ferriss. Fig. 46. 



One of the original lot collected by Mr. Ferriss on Charleston 

 Mountain in southern Nevada was dissected. The penis is 3 mm. 

 long, epiphallus 1.3 mm. The internally thickened part of the 

 penis is about half the total length and much swollen. It is closely 

 related to 0. yavapai and 0. hemphilli eurekensis. 



Fig. 4. — a, Oreohelix hemphilli eurekensis. b, 0. handi. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



47 



THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS OF 

 EPIPHRAGMOPHORA CALLISTODERMA P. and F. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



This species proves to belong to the subgenus Helminthoglypta. 

 There is a large dart sack, bearing a two-branched mucous gland. 

 The slender duct divides into two oblong bulbs, which end in slender 

 terminal portions longer than the bulbs, and folded down upon them, 

 as shown in the detail, fig. la, where the terminal branch of the left 



Fig. 1. — Genitalia of E piphragmophora callisioderma, only the terminal ducts of 

 the female organs drawn, d.s., dart sack; d.sp., duct of the spermatheca; 

 epi., epiphallus; /?., flagellum; m.gl, mucous gland; pen., penis; r.p., retractor 

 muscle of the penis. At a the two-branched mucous gland is drawn. 



bulb is cut off. The duct of the spermatheca is extremely long, and 

 no branch or diverticulum was observed. The flagellum is longer 

 than the penis + epiphallus. There is a short sheath about the 

 slender base of the penis. The limits of penis and epiphallus are 

 not obvious externally. The penial retractor is inserted 16 mm. 

 from the base of the penis. The length of penis + epiphallus is 

 30 mm.; of flagellum, 36 mm.; of dart sack 13 mm.; vagina 4 mm. 

 long. The spermathecal duct is shghtly over 60 mm. long. 

 The specimen dissected was one of the original lot. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



HUNTING MOLLUSCA IN UTAH AND IDAHO IN 1916. 

 BY JUNIUS HENDERSON AND L. E. DANIELS. 



We were in Utah and southern Idaho from June 10 to July 24, 

 1916, eontmumg the work begun in 1915.^ More attention was 

 given to fresh-water species and the smaller land snails than before, 

 with some interesting results. A vast amount of work remains to be 

 done in this region before the molluscan faunas and the significance 

 of their present distribution are thoroughly understood. 



The known Tertiary and Pleistocene history of the Salt Lake 

 Basin is such that it must vitally affect the present distribution of 

 species, as well as possibly influencing local variations. Great Salt 

 Lake and Utah Lake, both within the area covered by this report, 

 are among the remnants of a much larger body of water known to 

 geologists as ancient Lake Bonneville. During Pleistocene time it 

 extended over a large part of Utah and into Idaho, with a depth of 

 hundreds of feet. In its retreat it left a fine series of terraces around 

 the margin of its basin to mark the various stages of its recession. 

 The formations deposited beneath the waters of the ancient lake, 

 the fluctuations of its water level, and its molluscan life as revealed 

 by the numerous fossils contained in the lacustrine deposits have 

 been subjects of extensive investigation and discussion.- 



The aridity of the vast area between the Rocky Mountains and 

 the Sierra doubtless dates well back into Pliocene time. The changes 

 in the water level in the various lake basins do not necessarily imply 

 periods of great humidity. Each receives the drainage of a large 

 territory, and being completely land-locked, a slight increase in the 

 precipitation for a short cycle may extend the borders of the lakes 

 far out over the flat, low-lying area around the lake margins, and 

 increased precipitation for a longer period may fill the basins to 

 overflowing. The rise and fall of the waters of land-locked lakes 

 constitute a complete and accurate record of the net result of all the 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., LXVII, pp. 315-339, 1916. 



2 See especially the following: Gilbert, G. K., "Contributions to the History 

 of Lake Bonneville," U. S. Geol. Surv., 2d Ann. Rept., pp. 167-200, 1882, with 

 plates and map; "Lake Bonneville," U. S. Geol. Surv., Monographs, vol. 1, 

 1890, with plates and map. Call, R. Ellsworth: "On the Quaternary and 

 Recent Mollusca of the Great Basin, with descriptions of new forms," LT. S. 

 Geol. Surv., Bull. No. 11, 1884. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



climatic factors, chief of which are precipitation and temperature, 

 evaporation being an expression of the relations of temperature to 

 humidity. Even within the short period of occupation by the white 

 race, notable changes in the area of Great Salt Lake and other lakes 

 of the region have been recorded, but these changes have been 

 insignificant when compared with those shown by the geological 

 record. In Pleistocene time there were at least two periods of 

 enormous expansion and contraction. During these expansions the 

 Oquirrh and some of the other mountain ranges were peninsulas 

 projecting far out into the lake, while the southern part of Promontory 

 Range and many other small ranges were islands. Thus during 

 the periods of great extension the direct intercommunication of the 

 land-snail faunas of the several mountain ranges was either partialh- 

 or wholly prevented by the intervening waters. During the recession 

 periods between the major expansions, as well as during the long 

 periods before the first expansion and after the last contraction, 

 many of these mountain areas were nearly as well insulated by wide 

 expanses of territory apparently quite unfavorable to land snails, 

 especially the larger snails of the genus Oreohelix. It is well to note, 

 however, that as work upon this genus progresses, flourishing colonies 

 of the living snails are found from time to time in unexpected places, 

 where the cover does not seem at all good. It should also be kept 

 in mind that very few of the isolated mountain ranges have been 

 explored at all, and none of them thoroughly explored, by concholo- 

 gists. Hence the last word on this phase of the subject cannot be 

 written, even aside from the possibility of the accidental trans- 

 portation of snails by birds and other agencies. Turning now to the 

 fresh-w^ater mollusks, direct intercommunication of the faunas of 

 such streams as the Bear River, flowing into Great Salt Lake from 

 the north, and the Jordan, entering from the south, has been pre- 

 vented ever since the last contraction of Lake Bonneville by the 

 extremely saline waters of the lake, which form a complete barrier, 

 as effectual as a land barrier. This salinity is due to the fact that 

 the lake is land-locked. The streams pour their waters, containing 

 salts dissolved from the soil and rocks, into the lake. There, in the 

 absence of an outlet, the loss is wholly by evaporation, which leaves 

 the salts in the water, thus maintaining a concentrated solution, 

 w^hile Utah Lake, Bear Lake and others with outlets remain fresh. 

 However, during what is known as the ''Lake Epoch," Lake Bonne- 

 ville once or twice reached such depth that it established an outlet 

 at the north end of the Cache Valley in Idaho, resulting in the 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.; 



temporary freshening of the water. Hence it is not surprising that 

 certain strata in the lacustrine deposits contain numerous fossil 

 shells. Nearly all the species in this fossil fauna are still found 

 living in some part of the Bonneville Basin, as was long ago pointed 

 out by Call and Gilbert. The drainage during the overflow period 

 also afforded communication between the various rivers of the basin 

 and the Port Neuf River to the north, thus easily explaining the 

 observed similarity in their faunas. 



Our work in the region has developed a peculiar and as yet unsolved 

 problem in the breeding habits of the genus OreoheUx. The genus 

 is viviparous. In 1915 the snails of the genus collected in the last 

 week in August contained many embryos, but those obtained after 

 the first two or three days in September contained few or none. 

 In 1916 we found very few embryos during the months we were in 

 the field, June and July, yet if the embryos were to be so fully devel- 

 oped by the last of August as to be all gone early in Septeml^er, as 

 in 1915, it seems that they should have been developing by the 

 middle of July. To add to our perplexity, a considerable number 

 of live snails which were found among the dead shells in cleaning 

 them in November and December, nearly all contained embryos 

 of 1 1 or 2 whorls. These must have developed after July while the 

 snails were dormant. 



Over a large portion of the region covered by this report, the 

 combined effects of brush fires and overgrazing, with the consequent 

 erosion, have played sad havoc with the cover for land snails. In 

 some places where the steep slopes below clumps of bushes were 

 almost white with bleached OreoheUx shells, the washing of the soil 

 and dead leaves from beneath the shrubs had totally destroyed the 

 cover, so that not a living snail could be found, and the shrubs 

 themselves must die as erosion continues to take the soil away from 

 the roots. 



We have continued our station numbers from the 1915 expedition, 

 and revisited several of the 1915 stations to obtain more material 

 and data. We also include in this report some material oljtained 

 by Daniels in 1915 at Idaho Falls, Dubois, McCammon, and Weston,, 

 but not hitherto recorded, together with some unrecorded material 

 in the University of Colorado Museum, in order to keep all our 

 Utah and Idaho records together. 



We gratefully acknowledge the assistance of several who have 

 aided in the determination of difficult material. The Sphairiidae 

 were examined by Dr. V. Sterki. Dr. Bryant Walker has identified 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



or confirmed the identifications of the Physas and Lymnaeas, as well 

 as some of the other fresh-water snails. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry has 

 determined many of the smaller and more difficult land snails and 

 has examined both shells and soft anatomy of the Oreohelices. The 

 Physas and Sphferiidse of the region are not well understood and 

 difficult at the best. Hence many of the determinations must be 

 considered tentative. In a number of instances, also, the material 

 is in poor condition for determination. 



Rupert, Idaho. 



The following species in the University of Colorado Museum were 

 collected by Mr. Fayre Kenegy, along the Snake River, near Rupert, 

 in 1913: 



Pisidium sp. Lymncea near traskii Tryon. 



Sphcerium sp. Physa sp. 



A nodonta nuttaUiana Lea. A ncyliis crassus Hald. 

 Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). 



The Sphcerium is apparently the same puzzling species as that 

 from Sta. 74, near Ovid, Idaho. 



Idaho Falls, Idaho. 



The following species were collected by Daniels, in and on the 

 banks of Snake River, Idaho Falls, in August, 1915: 



Sphoeriumnesir aureum Prime. Lymncea humilis modicella Say. 



Pisidium compressum Prime, var. Lymncea humilis rustica Lea. 



Zonitoides nitida (Miill.). Lymncea apicina solida Lea. 



Succinea haydeni W. G. B. Planorhis parvus Say. 



Succinea oregonensis gahbii Try- Physa near gyrina Say. 



on? Physa ampullacea Gld. 

 Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). 



The Lymnseas and Physas were identified by Walker. . We record 

 Physa ampidlacea from a number of stations, all the material having 

 been identified or identifications confirmed by Walker. Gould' 

 described this form from Oregon, under the name P. bullata, in 1855. 

 In 1865 Binney^ republished the description, figured the species, 

 and, at Gould's suggestion, renamed it atnpullacea, the name bullata 

 being preoccupied. He recorded it also from Washington. Mean- 



3 Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hisl., V, p. 128, 1855. 



* Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America, Part II, p. 79, figs. 133, 134, 

 135, 1865. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



time, in 1864, Lea^ described Physa nuttallii, from Lewis River, 

 Oregon, but did not figure it. If, as we suspect and as Dr. Pilsbry 

 (Mss.) concluded some years ago, these names are synonyms, 7iut- 

 tallii has priority. In that event, all our records of P. ampullacea 

 should be changed to nuttallii Lea. 



The Sphcerium from Idaho Falls and the McCammon stations are 

 doubtfully referred to S. aureum Prime by Sterki. The beaks of 

 the McCammon examples are less elevated than the beaks of the 

 Idaho Falls material. 



The tjTpe locality of Lymncea hinkleyi Baker is the North Fork 

 of Snake River, eastern Idaho, and therefore must be not far north 

 or northeast of Idaho Falls. The type locality of Lymncea jack- 

 sonensis Baker is Jackson Lake, Wyoming, which is drained bj' the 

 South Fork of Snake River, and the species is also recorded from 

 Snake River. Baker, in his monograph, records Lymncea apicina 

 solida Lea from Salmon River, Idaho. 



Dubois, Idaho. 



In August, 1915, Daniels collected the following species in Beaver 

 Creek, at Dubois: 



Pisidium compressum Prime. Lymncea proxima Lea. 



Pisidium sp. Physa sparsestriata Tryon? 



Lymncea humilis rusiica Lea. 



The McCammon, Idaho, District. 



We revisited stations 1, 1| and 2, of 1915, and also established 

 several other stations. 



Sta. 1, west side of Port Neuf River, about a mile north of McCam- 

 mon. Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) is very abundant under wild 

 cherry, wild rose and various shrubs, among large blocks of lava at 

 the foot of a low bluff. Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Pils., three 

 dead shells. On the banks of the near-by slough we found Lymncea 

 proxima Lea, Pisidium (Sterki says P. huachucanum Pils., compare 

 also P. ashmuni), and Physa ampidlacea Old. In 1915 at this place 

 Daniels found a few Succinea, doubtfully identified at the time by 

 Walker as S. oregonensis gahhi Tryon. Pilsbry says: ''It is not 

 gdbhi. Just what it is I do not know. Has the microscopic sculp- 

 ture of stretchiana, but seems too big and too long. With a good 

 series one might come to some conclusion." 



Sta. 62, Port Neuf River, east of Sta. 1. Sphcerium near aureum 



spRoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., XVI, p. 116, 1864. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Prime and Fluminicola fusca (Hakl), both abundant, one example of 

 Physa identified by Walker as P. ampullacea, var. close to propinqua. 



Sta. 1|, about ten miles above McCammon, on south side of Port 

 Neuf River, north side of gulch on east side of mountain about three 

 miles south of west from Lava Hot Springs. 

 Oreohelix tenuistriata H. and D. 



This is the type locality of the species, the description of which 

 was based upon three imperfect and immature examples. We 

 revisited the station, where a search of several hours resulted in 

 obtaining about thirty specimens alive, mostly immature, and twice 

 as many dead shells, under shrubs and mats of the radical leaves of 

 Balsamorrhiza sagittata (Nutt.), overhanging small piles of limestone, 

 in open spaces among the mountain mahoganies, which are here the 

 largest we have seen. The dense blanket of small leaves directly 

 under the mahoganies is not favorable to the snails. This material 

 shows that the species is a larger, finer one than was indicated by the 

 tj'pe and co-types, and compels an amendment of the description, 

 as follows: Shell rather depressed to moderately elevated; whorls 

 5, convex, carinated almost to the aperture; color very light brown, 

 with two almost undiscernible darker spiral bands, one well above, 

 the other scarcely below, the periphery. The spiral riblets on the 

 best specimens, especially bleached ones, may be seen with the 

 unaided eye. The two largest examples measured are each 13.5 mm. 

 in major diameter, and one is 8 mm., the other 9.5 mm. in altitude. 

 Otherwise the original description holds good. The beautiful 

 sculpture distinguishes it from all other species of the genus we have 

 examined. Pilsbry writes that in genitalia this species is of the 

 haydeni type. 



In the gulch bottom, just below the Oreohelix slope, among aspens 

 and mountain maples, we obtained Vitrina alaskana Dall, Zonitoides 

 arhorea Say, Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey and Euconulus fulvus 

 alaskensis Pilsbry. 



Sta. 63, next gulch north of Sta. 1^. We found here a few Oreohelix 

 tenuistriata H. & D. 



Sta. 64, bank of Port Neuf River, two or three miles below Sta. 63. 

 We obtained here the following: 



Sphcerium near aureum Prime, Pyramidida cronkhitei anthonyi 



abundant. , Pils. 



Succinea avara Say. Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). 



Succinea rusticana Gld. Lymncea humilis modicella Say. 



Planorbig' parvus Say. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



It is probable that the Sphcerium and the Fluminicola may be 

 found in favorable situations all along the stream, and the former 

 was noted as a fossil in the alluvial banks of the river at several 

 places. 



Sta. 2, south side of Harkness Canyon, at the springs near a great 

 white cliff plainly visible from McCammon. The large, heavy- 

 shelled Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.), noted for this station in 

 our former report, occurs in limestone slides on a steep slope almost 

 concealed by a heavy cover of conifers, with an undergrowth of 

 mountain maples and various shrubs. A conifer forest is^ an unusual 

 habitat for such a fine colony of Oreohelix. In the bottomland 

 below the slides ' we found dead shells of Thysanophora ingersolli 

 (Bland) plentiful in fine drift wood, and a short distance down the 

 canyon we obtained Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils., Zonitoides 

 •arhorea (Say), Vitrina alaskana Dall and Vallonia cydopliorella Ancey. 



Sta. 65, east side of gulch coming into Harkness Canyon from the 

 north, above Sta. 2. Large Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) 

 abundant, in more open, cleaner slides than at Sta. 2, with few trees 

 and much less shrubbery and herbage. 



Sta. 66, Goodenough Canyon, on east side of a mountain range 

 about five miles west of McCammon. We drove to the end of the 

 road up the canyon, then walked a mile further. Found no lime- 

 stone, no good rock slides and no Oreohelix, but under leaves and 

 sticks we obtained the following : 



Zonitoides arhorea (Say). Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. 



Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Punctum n. sp. 



Pils. Vertigo modesta parietalis 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. (Ancey). 

 Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland) . 



Bear Lake Valley Idaho and Utah. 



Bear Lake, at an altitude of 5,925 feet, is about nineteen miles 

 long (north to south) and from six to eight miles in width, bisected 

 by the Utah-Idaho boundary line. It is bounded on the east, west 

 and south by mountains, but the broad valley extends to the north- 

 ward beyond Montpelier to Bennington, thus giving the valley a 

 length of forty miles, drained by the Bear River, which flows into 

 Great Salt Lake. In the Geologic Atlas of the United States (United 

 States Geo'-Ogical Survey) the region is covered by the Montpelier 

 (Idaho) and Randolph (Utah) Quadrangle sheets. We did not visit 

 the eastern or southern shores of the lake, but spent half a day at 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



the northern end and examined the western shore at various places. 

 We found no living moUusks in the lake itself. This may be due to 

 the fact that the water was considerably above the usual level and we 

 were not prepared for dredging. The sloughs and streams of the 

 valley furnished quite a number of species of fresh-water mollusks 

 alive, and the mountains and canyons bordering the valley yielded 

 land snails. 



Sta. 67, just within the mouth of Montpelier Canyon, northwest 

 of Montpelier, Idaho, on the south side of the canyon. Oreohelix 

 cooperi (W. G. B.) abundant, mostly immature, under shrubbery on 

 slope beneath a limestone ledge almost devoid of rock slides. Al- 

 though the snow from a two days' storm (June 20-21) was just 

 melting, on June 22 the snails were all active and hence easy to find. 

 Mature examples from this station measure about 20 mm. in diameter. 

 Vitrina alaskana Dall was noted on a ditch bank. This Vitrina we 

 found at almost every station where we found Oreohelix, but we did 

 not always collect it and perhaps in some instances failed to record 

 it in the notebook. 



Sta. 68, three miles up Montpelier Canyon, on the north side of a 

 ravine that comes in from the east. Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) 

 plentiful, nearly all mature, in limestone rock slides, mature examples 

 varying from 17 mm. to 21.5 mm. in diameter, mostly about 20 mm. 



Sta. 69, south side of the same gulch, opposite Sta. 68 and not 

 more than 150 feet distant. Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.), live 

 examples scarce, dead shells plentiful, under shrubbery on a limestone 

 slope devoid of rock slides. Though separated from Sta. 69 only by 

 the narrow bed of the gulch and with the more favorable north 

 exposure, the snails here are much smaller, the shells varying from 

 13.5 mm. to 15.5 mm. in diameter. Lack of cover does not appear 

 to be the cause of the difference in size, as the cover at Sta. 67 is 

 about the same. 



Sta. 70, canyon about two miles north of Montpelier. Oreohelix 

 cooperi (W. G. B.), of fair size, but not plentiful, in edges of limestone 

 slides. 



Sta. 71, a short distance up Bennington Canyon, east of Benning- 

 ton (north of Montpelier). Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.), large, 

 robust, very abundant under shrubbery, especially wild roses, on 

 steep banks of creek, active among the tiny patches of snow remaining 

 from the late storm. None found in the big sandstone slides on the 

 slope above the brush and trees of the narrow bottomland. 



Sta. 72, sloughs on east side of Bear River, on both sides of the 

 Montpelier-Ovid wagon road. We here obtained the following: 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



Sphcerium sp. Lymnoea utahensis Call. 



Musculium n. sp. Planorhis trivolvis near hinneyi 

 Succinea rusticana Gld. Tryon. 



Valvata humeralis calif ornica Planorhis parvus Say. 



Pils. Planorhis exacuous Say. 



Lyjjmceastagnalisappressa&ay. Physaampullacea Gld. 



Lyynncea proxima Lea. Aplexa hypnorum (Linn.). 



The Planorhis trivolvis at all stations in this valley reaches great 

 size — up to 35 mm. in diameter in some instances. They have the 

 strong transverse sculpture of the variety hinneyi, but the whorls 

 are not quite so conspicuously strap-like as those from Sta. 127 at 

 Utah Lake. Caddis larvae cases from one of the sloughs are com- 

 posed almost wholly of Planorhis parvus, P. exacuous and other small 

 shells and shell fragments. Planorhis exacuous was described by 

 Say,^ in 1821, under this name as thus spelled, apparently a poorly 

 formed adjective from exacuo or from acuo, referring to the sharp 

 periphery. It should have been spelled either exacuus or exacutus. 

 Gould,'' in 1841, inserted the t, saying: 



"I cannot but think that the name under which this shell appears 

 in the 'Journal of the Academy,' is not exactly as it was intended by 

 the author, as it is neither a Latin word nor a Latin termination. 

 Supposing that by a typographical error, an o has taken the place 

 of a t, we have a legitimate term, and one very expressive of the 

 form of the shell." 



In his synonymy he gives the original spelling. Haldeman, in his 

 monograph, 1842, follows Gould, but in the synomany he also cites 

 the name as originally published. Unfortunately, Binney,^ in 1865, 

 adopting Gould's form of the name, in his synonymy of the species 

 cited Say's original description as though it had been spelled exacutus. 

 As the latter is the work most generally accessible and used for 

 reference, it has misled many subsequent writers. If the original 

 name were clearly a misprint and we could ascertain just what was 

 intended, the rules of nomenclature would justify its correction. 

 It is conceivably, though not likel}', a case of poor judgment in the 

 formation of the word, and not a typographical error. If a printer's 

 error, it seems more likely that the printer, well accustomed to the 

 common English syllable ous, had carelessly inserted an o in exacuus, 



« JouRX. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., II, p. 165, 1821. 



'A Report on the Invertebrata of ^Massachusetts, pp. 208-209, 1841. See 

 also Binney's edition of the same, pp. 49.5-496, 1870. 

 * Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America, Part II, p. 126. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



than that he had replaced the t in exacutus with an o. We have no 

 way of ^ascertaining which form the author intended. Hence we 

 beUeve the original spelling should be retained, bad as it is, and it 

 is no worse in this respect than many other names in general use. 



Sta. 74, southwest of Sta. 72, about two miles north of east from 

 Ovid, Idaho, where the railroad track crosses Bear Lake outlet. 

 Dead shells of the following species were found in the loose sand on 

 the bank of the stream : 



Sphcerium sp. Valvata humeralis californica Pils. 



Pisidium compressum Prime. Valvata utahensis (Call). 



Pisidium near variahile Prime. Carinifex newherryi (Lea). 



Anodonta loahlametensis Lea? Lymncea proxima Lea. 



1 broken valve. Planorhis trivolvis near hinneyi 

 Succinea haydeni W. G. B. ? Try on. 



2 broken shells. Planorhis parvus Say. 

 Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). 



The Sphcerium is very large, but Sterki does not consider it S. 

 pilsbryanum St., which would be expected in this vicinity. He does 

 not venture to name these specimens. 



Sta. 75, slough from Mill Creek drainage, beside the railroad tracks 

 a mile north of east from Ovid. Musculium n. sp. abundant, gravid. 



Sta. 76, Mill Creek, where railroad crosses it south of Ovid. 



Anodonta nuttalliana Lea, one Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say. 



alive. - Planorhis trivolvis near hinneyi 



Sphcerium sp., 3 fresh shells, Tryon. 



Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). Physa ampullacea G\d. 



Sta. 73, three or four miles up Paris Canyon, west of Paris, Idaho. 

 Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) common under shrubbery on limestone 

 slopes devoid of slides. A search for small snails in an aspen grove 

 near by proved surprisingly fruitless. 



Sta. 77, half a mile up St. Charles Canyon, west of St. Charles, 

 Idaho. Oreohelix haydeni hyhrida (Hemph.), with sculpture less 

 pronounced than in the Logan colony, common under the radical 

 leaves of Balsamorrhiza sagittata and shrubs, on a limestone slope 

 devoid of rock slides. A few Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey and quite 

 a number of Pupilla muscorum idahoensis n. subsp. were found. 



Pupilla muscorum idahoensis n. subsp. 



Differs uniformly from typical P. muscorum (L.) in its more 

 slender form and thinner lip. Color light to dark brown. The 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



type, in the University of Colorado Museum, measures 3.1 mm. in 

 altitude, 1.3 mm. in width. Whorls 6. Common at Sta. 77, west 

 of St. Charles, Idaho, June 27, 1916. 



Sta. 78, natural turnpike forming the northern barrier of Bear 

 Lake and separating it from Mud Lake and Dingle Swamp. The 

 sandy soil of this broad barrier is in places composed largely of fossil 

 shells of the same species that abound along the beach, leading to the 

 belief that the beach shells have mostly been washed from the sand 

 by the waves and are fossil. Though we found no live mollusks in 

 the lake, many of the shells, especially Lymncea and Planorhis, were 

 rather fresh, and all were of species that might be expected to now 

 live in the region, though only two or three of the species were actually 

 taken alive in the valley. As the lake is now used to regulate the 

 flow of water in the streams and ditches, the water level fluctuates 

 considerably, and at the time of our visit the water in the lake, as 

 well as in the streams, was high. The beach material yielded the 

 following: 



Sphwrium pilsbryanum Sterki. Valvata utahensis (Call) . 



Pisidium compressum Prime. Planorhis trivolvis near binneyi 

 Pisidimn n. sp. T^yon. 



Pyramidula cronkhitei anihonyi Planorhis parvus Say. 



Pils. Planorhis exacuous Say. 



Vertigo ovata (Say). Physa ampullacea Gld. 



Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). Aiicylus sip. 



Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.). Lymncea proxima Lea. 



Carinifex newherryi (Lea). Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say. 



Valvata humeralis calif ornica Pils. Lymncea utahensis Call. 



Baker, in his Lymnseidse of North America, records L. proxima 

 also from the Utah end of the lake. L. utahensis at this station is 

 on the average more elongate than those from the type locality at 

 Utah Lake, but on the whole they cannot be separated. Valvata 

 h. californica is here more highly polished and closely coiled than at 

 Sta. 127, Utah Lake. 



Sta. 79, roadside pools west of Sta. 78, near St. Charles. Lymncea 

 proxima Lea and Aplexa hypnoruni (L.). 



Sta. 80, bank of St. Charles Creek, at the north edge of the town: 



Agriolimax campestris montana Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi 



(Ing.). Pils. 



Succinea avara Say. Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. 

 Zonitoides arhorea (Say). 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Sta. 8^', three miles up St. Charles Canyon, west of St. Charles, 

 Idaho. Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) found sparmgly in sand- 

 stone slides and about limestone ledges. In the water-cress of a 

 small seepage channel from the creek we found: 



Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.). Lymncea obrussa Say. 



PJujsa ampuUacea Gld. Succinea rusticana Gld. 



Sta. 82, mouth of Garden City Canyon, west of Garden City, 

 Utah, on south side of canyon. Oreohelix haydeni hyhrida (Hemph.). 

 typical, as at Logan, common under small shrubs, and especially 

 under the matted radical leaves of Balsamorrhiza sagittata (Nutt.), 

 on limestone slopes devoid of rock slides. We also found a few 

 Pwpilla hlandi (Morse). The slopes are now very barren, but we 

 were informed by pioneers that forty-five j^ears ago they were well 

 covered with large mountain mahogany, up to a foot in diameter, 

 as at Sta. H, in the IMcCammon district. These trees furnished 

 fuel for the early settlers, but wasteful cutting and fires have denuded 

 the hills for some miles back, and overgrazing ))y stock has been 

 disastrous to the smaller shrubs and herbs. It is difficult to believe 

 that snails could obtain a foothold under present conditions, but 

 having flourished here under more favorable conditions, they have 

 been able thus far to survive the change in environment. Erosion 

 is rapidly carrying the soil and vegetative debris from beneath the 

 scant shrubbery and may soon destroy the colony, unless saved hj a 

 series of years of increased moisture favorable to plant growth. 



Sta. 83, south side of next canyon south of Sta. 82 and about half 

 a mile distant. Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) abundant, but much 

 smaller than at most localities where we have found this species 

 (diameter 14 mm. to 15.5 mm.). These specimens agree with those 

 from Eureka, Utah, in their small size and the absence of the color 

 bands from below, many of them having no color bands at all. 



Sta. 84, stagnant pool bj^ the roadside, two miles south of Garden 

 City, Utah. Lymncea obrussa Say abundant, L. humilis modicella 

 Say rare. 



Sta. 85, along wagon road from Garden City to Logan, a mile east 

 of the "Sink Holes," east of the crest of the divide. We picked up 

 one large bleached shell of Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.), but, as we 

 had a hard day's trip ahead, we did not stop to search for more. 



Preston, Idaho. 

 Sta. 97, bank of Bear River, south and southeast of the wagon 

 bridge due west of Preston. A layer of sand in the bank, several feet 

 in thickness, yielded the following fossils: 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



MargarUana'margaritifera'L.? Fluminicola fusca (Hald.)- 



Sphcerium sp. Lymncea traskii Tryon. 



Succinea grosvenori Lea ? 



Sta. 98, bottomland near Sta. 97. Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) 

 abundant under leaves in clumps of rose bushes, scrub willows, etc. 

 This station, a flat soil area entirely free from rocks and some distance 

 from ledges, is an unusual site for a fine colony of Oreohelix. The 

 same species is common under similar conditions at Montrose, 

 Colorado. 



Sta. 99, slough west of Sta. 98, north of wagon road. Lymncea 

 traskii Lea (?), dead shells abundant, fairly fresh; live examples not 

 found. Physa ampullacea Gould, one dead shell. A similar slough 

 across the road yielded no mollusks at all. 



Sta. 100, muddy bank of river due north of Sta. 99. Succinea 

 avara Say common under overhanging willows. 



Weston, Idaho. 



Sta. 59, cliff of igneous rock about three miles northwest of Weston. 

 Though the place from a distance looked like good snail territory, 

 we succeeded in finding only a very few scorched shells which seem 

 to be a small form of Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). A j^ear or 

 two before, a fierce fire had swept the mountain, burning the leaves 

 and sticks to the very bottom of the rock slides, but the scarcity of 

 ''bones" shows that the snails were not at all plentiful before the 

 fire. We also visited a good-looking mountain southwest of Weston, 

 in the northern edge of Utah, but found no snails there. 



Sta. 60, irrigating ditch southeast of Sta. 59, about one-third of 

 the way to town: 



Succinea oregonensis Lea. Lymncea hulimoides cockerelli Pils. 



Lymncea humilis modicella Say. and Ferr. 



Physa crandalli Baker ? 



So far as we know, this is the only record of L. h. cockerelli 

 for Idaho, though the Montana, Colorado, New Mexico and 

 Nevada records would lead one to expect it in Idaho, Utah and 

 Wyoming. 



Sta. 61, stagnant roadside pool southeast of Sta. 60, about a mile 

 northwest of Weston. Lymncea traskii Tryon (typical, according to 

 Walker), common, young very abundant. 



In 1915 Daniels obtained from the banks of the Bear River, east 

 of Weston, Succinea haydeni W. G. B. and Lymncea proxima Lea. 




1917.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 61 



The Franklin District, Idaho and Utah. 



Franklin is only a mile or two north of the southern boundary of 

 Idaho, due east of Weston. We visited a good-looking hill about 

 four "miles northeast of towTi, where we found the vegetative cover 

 poor and no snails. 



Sta. 93, dry slope southeast of Franklin, about half way to the 

 base of the mountain, due north of the type locality of Oreohelix 

 haydeni cornigata H. & D. Succinea oregonensis Lea was very 

 abundant among the quartzite and red sandstone boulders thickly 

 stre^vii over the surface of the gentle slope, sheltered by very scant 

 vegetation growing close to the rocks. Tracks of horses and cattle 

 made when the ground is soft after rains hold a little water for a 

 short time after storms, thus insuring periods of activity sufficient 

 to sustain a very prosperous colony of these snails. They were 

 clinging to the rocks and to the soil beneath by means of a glutinous 

 substance which caused the snails to stick to our fingers and tweezers 

 in removing them from the rocks. Dry, membranous ''scars" 

 adhering to the rocks showed former places of attachment during 

 periods of inactivity, reminding one of Sojiorella scars. We obtained 

 over a thousand specimens alive in a very short time on the Idaho 

 side of the boundary, then found dead shells all along the way across 

 the line into Utah, to the edge of the mouth of High Creek Canyon; 

 but not realizing at the time that we were crossing the line, we did 

 not look for live examples. 



Sta. 94, small reservoir in shallow ravine north of Sta. 93. Physa 

 ampuUacea Old., scarce. 



Sta. 95, north side of High Creek Canyon, southeast of Sta. 93, 

 just within the mouth of the canyon and continuing some distance 

 up the canyon on the same side. Oreohelix strigosa fragilis (Hemph.) 

 in quartzite and red sandstone slides. 



Sta. 96, similar slides a mile or so up the canyon on the south side, 

 the same subspecies, scarce. Further up the canyon the walls are 

 of limestone, but strange to say our brief search there did not 

 yield snails. Hemphill states that the t^'pe locality of fragilis is 

 "near Franklin, Idaho, among Red Sandstone." The topography 

 suggests this canyon as a very likely one for him to have visited, the 

 other likely one being two or three miles to the north, a little north 

 of east from Franklin and hence in Idaho. Our stations for this 

 subspecies, 39 (1915), 95 and 96 (1916), are all in Utah. If Hemp- 

 hill's type locality is any of these three, then the only Idaho station 

 known ior fragilis is Franklin Butte, west of the town, our Sta. 38, 1915. 




62 proceedings of the academy of [feb., 



Smithfield, Utah. 



Sta. 101, limestone butte about two miles northeast of Smithfield. 

 Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey), almost devoid of color bands — the 

 binneyi form. A few live snails were found by persistent search, but 

 dead, bleached shells were very abundant on the slopes to the top 

 of the butte, thence to the north slope of the entrance to the canyon 

 to the southeast. The butte has been considerably denuded by 

 overgrazing, and erosion has washed the soil and dead leaves from 

 beneath the shrubs and Balsamorrhiza that formerly afforded shelter 

 for the snails. Bleached shells almost whitened the ground down 

 the slopes from clumps of bushes where now there is no snail cover 

 at all. It is difficult to see how the shrubbery can long continue to 

 exist. As this butte is only six miles south of the Oreohelix haydeni 

 corrugata butte, and the two buttes are of the same character, we 

 expected to find that subspecies here, but failed to do so. Three 

 buttes of similar character, placed at intervals of about six miles and 

 almost in line, our stations 38, 40 and 101, yielded respectively 

 0. s. fragilis, 0. h. corrugata and 0. peripherica. 



We worked up the large canyon southeast of Sta. 101 for several 

 miles, and were surprised to find no snails in it. 



The Logan, Utah, District. 



This region is covered by the Logan Quadrangle topographic sheet 

 of the United States Geological Survey, issued since our visit. 



Sta. 86, north fork of Logan Canyon, about sixteen miles from 

 Logan and three miles above " the forks. " Oreohelix strigosa depressa 

 (Ckll.) abundant under mountain maples at the edges of limestone 

 slides, where the blanket of leaves was thick, but a few large rocks 

 and roots provided clinging places for the snails. We also obtained 

 the following species: 



Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland) . Zonitoides arborea (Say) . 

 Pupilla blandi (Morse) ? one Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi 



broken shell. Pils. 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. Succinea avara Say. 



Euconulus fidvus alaskensis Pils. 



Thysanophora ingersolli was described by Bland^ in 1875, under 

 the name Helix ingersollii, from specimens obtained in Colorado. 

 IngersolP*^ republished the description in 1876, under the name 



9 Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., XI, p. 151, 1875. ^ 



10 8th Ann. Kept. (Hayden's) U. S. Geol. and Gcofr. Surv. Terr., for 1874, 

 pp. 397-398, 1876. 




1917.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Microphysa ingersolli, with three outHne figures which do not ade- 

 quately represent the material he collected or any specimens we have 

 seen from Colorado or elsewhere, and the lateral view is misleading. 

 Binney," in 1878, 1885, 1886 and 1890, again published misleading 

 figures, perhaps based upon the original figures. These all represent 

 a shell with apex so depressed that it does not show at all above the 

 last whorl in lateral view. In 1887 Ancey,^- relying upon the supposed 

 accuracy of those misleading figures, as he plainly indicates, and 

 finding that his specimens of Thysanophora collected by Hemphill 

 in Logan Canyon, Utah, exhibited a spire elevated clearly above the 

 last whorl, described it under the name Microphysa ingersolli convexior. 

 Meanwhile Binney, in his second supplement, in presenting what he 

 said was a better figure of ingersolli, recorded under that name 

 material collected by Hemphill (doubtless part of the same lot of 

 material from which Ancey's types came) at Logan Canyon and 

 Mt. Nebo, Utah, and also Weston, Oregon. We have examined 

 Thysanophoras from two stations in Logan Canyon, a number of 

 other localities in Utah and Idaho and many localities in Colorado, 

 some of them near the type locality of ingersolli, and can see no 

 difference, none of them being accurately represented by the figures 

 of ingersolli. Specimens from Logan Canyon were sent to Pilsbry, 

 who compared them with Ingersoll's specimens of ingersolli.- He 

 agrees with us that the names are exact synonyms, ingersolli, of 

 course, having priority. In 1890 Professor T. D. A. Cockerell was 

 permitted to examine and copy portions of Ancey's manuscript 

 notes, including notes on his M. i. convexior, with pen and ink figures. 

 We have examined his copies of Ancey's figures, and the one labelled 

 ingersolli represents Binney's misleading figure of the species, while 

 the one labelled convexior is an excellent illustration of the shell 

 found in Montana, Idaho, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico and doubt- 

 less Wyoming, and which must take the name ingersolli. It is 

 interesting to note that though Binney recorded ingersolli from 

 Weston, Oregon, collected by Hemphill, Pilsbry'^ recorded and 

 figured specimens from the same place under the name convexior, 

 because they had the spire considerably higher than material from 

 Colorado and elsewhere. This confirms our conclusion that Binney 

 was really dealing with a form having a slightly raised spire, while 



11 Bin; -y, Terr. Moll. U. S., vol. V, p. 173; 2d Suppl., p. 35, PI. Ill, fig. 5; 

 3d Suppl., p. 215; Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 170. 



12 The Conchologist's Exchange, vol. II, p. 64, 1887. 

 "Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., LXIl, 117, 1910. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



figuring one with the spire depressed out of sight in lateral view. 

 If further material shows the Oregon form to be worthy a name, 

 it should be given a new one and not called convexior. 



Sta. 87, just within mouth of Logan Canyon, on south side. 

 Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) very abundant, rather small, 

 nearly white, with two conspicuous, usually broad, dark brown bands, 

 which almost invariably extend to the aperture. These are the most 

 conspicuously banded snails we found during the two seasons' work, 

 except 0. peripherica form albofasciata. They were found scattered 

 for a mile up the canyon, and were quite abundant in a small rock 

 slide covered by Clematis. This station also yielded the following: 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland). 



Pyramidula cronkkitei anthonyi Euconulus fulvus alaskensis VAs. 

 Pils. 



A spring choked with water-cress yielded Paludestrina longinqua 

 (Gld.). Sterki^"* doubtfully recorded Vallonia gracilicosta Reinh. 

 from Logan Canyon. 



Sta. 88, about a mile up, on the south side of next large canyon, 

 about two miles to the north from Logan Canyon. Oreohelix strigosa 

 ■depressa (Ckll.), a few alive under mountain maples in the edges of 

 rock slides, dead shells common. 



Sta. 89, between 87 and 88, along the west slope of the mountain. 

 Oreohelix haydeni hyhrida (Hemph.), dead shells scattered, but 

 especially common where limestone ledges are exposed at the mouths 

 of small ravines. About a dozen live snails were found under sage- 

 brush in rock slides, but none under Balsamorrhiza, which is usually 

 excellent cover for Oreohelix where it droops over rocks. Here the 

 plant was found in loose soil, not about the rocks. The evidence is 

 abundant that the vegetative cover has here been greatly reduced by 

 overgrazing, followed, as usual in such cases, by active erosion. The 

 €olony is likely near extinction. A few dead shells of Vitj-ina alaskana 

 Dall were found. 



Sta. 90, several steep, short ravines on the west slope of the moun- 

 tains south of Logan Canyon and south of our Sta. 42, 1915. Oreo- 

 helix haydeni hyhrida (Hemph.) found sparingly in all of these ravines. 

 This form seems to be here confined to such situations and is not 

 found in the larger canyons, which are the best places for depressa 

 and cooperi. 



I. 



1^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1893, p. 270; Man. Conch., 2d Ser., vol. VIII, 

 p. 256. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Sta. 42, where in 1915 we collected 0. h. hybrida, jaelded in 1916 

 a single example of Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland), one Euconulus 

 fulvus alaskensis Pils., and three Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Sta. 91, Providence Canyon, southeast of Providence and about 

 four miles from Logan. OreoheJix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) and 

 0. cooperi (W. G. B.), both rather small, dead shells plentiful, a few 

 live examples found under mountain maples and various shrubs in 

 rock slides. 



Sta. 92, a small stream choked with water-cress, a mile south of 

 Logan, yielded Succinea rusticana Gld., Lymncea proxima Lea and 

 Physa ampidlacea Gld. 



Baker, in his Lymnseidae of North America, records L. proxima 

 Lea and L. stagnaUs wasatchensis Hemph. from "near Logan." 



Clarkston, Utah. 



Sta. 57, Newton town reservoir, about half way between Trenton 

 and Clarkston: 



MuscuUum sp. Planorhis trivolvis hornii Tryon. 



Muscidium rykholti Normand. Planorhis exacuous Saj". 



Succinea avara Say. Plajiorhis parvus Say. 



Lymncea proxima Lea. Physa ampullacea Gould. 



Planorhis trivolvis hornii (so identified by Pilsbry) here varies from 

 19 mm. to 24 mm. in diameter. Our former record of P. trivolvis 

 from Cache Junction should be referred to this form. IngersolP^ 

 recorded hornii from Utah. 



Sta. 58, mountainside due west of the southern portion of Clarkston, 

 half a mile south of Sta. 3, 1915. Oreohelix rugosa (Hemph.) abun- 

 dant and very robust, under Balsamorrhiza sagittata and small 

 bushes, around limestone ledges. In places the ground is almost 

 white with bleached shells, and we obtained a thousand live ones 

 in a short time. In our former report we suggested (p. 334) the 

 possibility that 0. hendersoni dakani Hend. might be a synonym of 

 rugosa, a suspicion then shared bj^ Pilsbry.^'' We have since visited 

 the type locality of dakani at Newcastle, Colorado, and obtained a 

 large quantity of live specimens. Dr. Pilsbry has examined the 

 anatomy of both forms, and reports that they are distinct, the 

 anatomy of dakani proving its relationship to hendersoni, as was 



15 8th Ann. Rept. (Havden's), U. S. Geol and Geog. Surv. Terr., for 1874, 

 p. 404. 



i« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., LXVIII, 353, 1916. 

 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



originally assumed from shell characters alone, while the anatomy of 

 rugosa connects it with the coojieri group. 



While in this district we discovered that our 0. peripherica stations 

 4 and 36, 1915, are on opposite sides of the same small mountain. 

 We were misled before by the fact that Daniels had approached his 

 Sta. 4 from one direction, while we had together at a later date 

 approached Sta. 36 from another direction. 



Deweyville, Utah. 



Deweyville Postoffice is in Box Elder County, Utah, fifteen mile& 

 north of Brigham. Some confusion is likely to arise from the fact 

 that the railroads, both steam and electric, passing through the 

 town, have abbreviated the name to Dewey, though some maps and 

 gazetteers locate a Dewey post village in Grand County. Specimens 

 of Oreohelix collected and labelled by Hemphill, in the collection of 

 Mr. Daniels, bear the locality label, ''Dewey, Box Elder Co., Utah," 

 and are designated as utahensis. Specimens in the Hemphill col- 

 lection in the cabinet of Mrs. Ida S. Oldroyd, and others placed by 

 her in the University of Colorado ^Museum, were labelled by Hemp- 

 hill: " Smooth variety of hinneyi, passing into albida. Dewey, 

 Utah. Large." Another lot, designated by him as "var. albida," 

 is from "Collinston, Utah," Avhich is about five miles north of- 

 Deweyville, and three lots labelled albida by him are from Logan, 

 according to the labels. A careful examination of this material 

 under a lens convinces us that it is identical with the smooth form 

 of 0. h. hybrida from Sta. 102, which grades so completely into 

 typical hybrida that we cannot consider it entitled to a separate 

 name, even as a "form." 



Sta. 102, mouth of first gulch northeast of Deweyville. Oreohelix 

 haydeni hybrida (Hemph.), periphery quite rounded and spiral 

 sculpture obscure in most examples, common under wild cherrj^ and 

 mountain maple overhanging limestone slides composed chiefly of 

 small fragments. Vitrina alaskana Dall common. 



Sta. 103, next gulch south of Sta. 102, southeast of Deweyville. 

 Oreohelix haydeni hybrida (Hemph.) under same conditions as at 

 Sta. 102, specimens more or less angled, but not on the average so 

 much so as at Sta. 104, sculpture more pronounced than at Sta. 102 

 and less so than at Sta. 104. 



Sta. 104, gulch about two miles south of Sta. 103, east of Madsen. 

 Oreohelix haydeni hybrida (Hemph.) common under same conditions 

 as at Sta. 102, strongly angled to slightly keeled, spiral sculpture 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



well developed as seen under a lens, but much less pronounced than; 

 in gabbiana from Oquirrh Mountains, though many specimens are 

 more angular than typical hijhrida from Logan. 



The material of these three stations taken as a whole seems to be 

 clearly hyhrida, and the variation within such short distances is 

 characteristic of the various subspecies of haydeni wherever we have 

 found small colonies of them not far apart, as at Devil's Slide and 

 Oquirrh ^Mountain, Utah, and at Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 



Ogden, Utah. 



Sta. 105, mouth of Ogden Canyon. Oreohelix strigosa depressa 

 (CklL), dead shells about the granite and quartzite slides for a mile 

 up the canyon on both sides. Live examples were found by a 

 moment's search at several points, particularly abundant under a 

 large mat of Clematis on one quartzite slide. Bleached shells also 

 extend along the west slope of the mountains to a gulch about a mile 

 to the north, as far as we went. Brush fires swept the mountains 

 some years ago, so the vegetative cover is now very poor and erosion 

 is rapidly stripping the steep slopes. Binney^^ recorded Pupilla 

 Uandi (Morse) from Ogden and Vertigo corpulenta (Morse) from 

 Ogden Canyon. Probably the latter record should be referred to 

 V. modesta parietalis (Ancey),^^ of which Ogden Canyon is the type 

 locality. Binney's material recorded as corpulenta was collected 

 by Hemphill, and the fact that other material described by Ancey 

 at about this time was received by him from the same collector 

 makes the supposition that his parietalis was obtained by Hemphill 

 reasonable, and hence probably Binney's and Ancey's records are 

 not only from the same canyon, but from the same lot of material. 



Sta. 106, a small, sluggish stream on south side of valle}', about 

 a mile below the mouth of Ogden Canyon: 



Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). Physa crandalli Baker ? 



Lymncea traskii Tryon. 



Oreohelix peripherica wasatchensis (Hemph.). 



Sta. 108, base of river terrace, south and southeast of Sta. 106, 



alluvium, enclosing fragments of limestone. Dead shells abundant, 



about 25 live examples found in a scrub oak and mountain-maple 



thicket. At this station the shells vary greatly in form, many being 



not distinctly carinated and much flatter and smoother than typical 



wasatchensis, thus forming an intergrading series between t^^pical 



" 2d Suppl. to 5th vol. Terr. Moll, p. 40. 



18 The Conchologists' Exchange, vol. II, p. 80, 1887. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



wasatchensis from the next station and peripherica from other locali- 

 ties. As we had expected, Pilsbry's report on the soft anatomy is 

 that the genitalia of wasatchensis and peripherica agree. As usual, 

 Vitrina alaskana Dall is common at this station. 



Sta. 109. This station is east of, but continuous with, Sta. 108, 

 the separation having been made only because of the greater variation 

 at the lower end of the colony. Following up a draw toward the 

 mountain, the smoother, depressed, non-angular form soon dis- 

 appeared, but the typical, high-spired, strongly ribbed, carinated 

 form was found plentifully under the leaves, often with very scant 

 cover, a single small leaf being sometimes sufficient, though the 

 weather was hot and dry. The colony continues up the mountain 

 slope into a quartzite slide, where many of the large pieces of rock 

 are well rounded. Some years ago brush fires burned the leaves to 

 the bottom of the slides along this slope, so we were able to find no 

 live snails above the brush in the ravine and along the side of the 

 valley, which was not touched by fire. We had very carefully 

 searched the region for several miles north and south and up the 

 canyon for this species, but without success until we reached this 

 place, which seemed to be the last chance. We are quite convinced 

 that it is the exact type locality of the subspecies. It answers 

 Hemphill's description, as no other place we found does, but he does 

 not appear, from his notes, to have worked clown into the gulch 

 where the live snails are plentiful now. The topography and an old, 

 abandoned road make it seem likely that he would have passed over 

 this quartzite slide on his way to the mountain. In his description 

 he says: "This pretty and interesting shell I found among quartzite 

 boulders, in crevices sufficiently large to afford cool and moist retreats 

 during the active summer season and safe places for hibernating 

 during the cold months. This shell seems to be confined in its range 

 to a very limited area, for I did not find a single specimen, either 

 dead or alive, outside of a little plat containing an acre of ground." 

 The last sentence quoted agrees with our experience, after collecting 

 from 126 stations in Utah and southern Idaho. Hemphill's state- 

 ment that almost the first shell he picked up at Ogden was wasatchen- 

 sis indicates that he did not go first into the canyon, or he would 

 have found there plenty of depressa and no wasatchensis. 



Promontory Range. 



This range of mountains forms a narrow peninsula jutting into 

 Great Salt Lake from the north. The southern portion formed an 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



island perhaps twenty-five miles in length during the maximum 

 expansion of ancient Lake Bonneville. Hague's^^ discussion is 

 quoted at length by Butler and Heikes,-" with additional information, 

 in a recent bulletin. The isolation of the range and the presence of 

 large bodies of limestone, brush and trees lead us to believe that 

 systematic w^ork there would produce interesting results, but our 

 time was limited and the single day spent at the extreme southern 

 end was disappointing. The only moUusks we saw were Vallonia 

 cyclophorella Ancey and Pupilla blandi (Morse), under small bushes 

 in rock slides at Sta. 107, an isolated limestone butte close to the 

 railroad station of Saline. This butte was either covered by the 

 waters of Lake Bonneville or formed only a tiny rocky island. The 

 vegetative cover across the southern slope of the range is everywhere 

 too scant for the larger snails. 



Morgan and Devil's Slide District, Utah. 



Oreohelix haydeni (Gabb) was described from material said to 

 have been obtained in ''Webber" Canyon, Utah.-^ We have not 

 been able to learn of any canyon bearing that name, and are assured 

 by men long and well acquainted with Utah that the well-known 

 Weber Canyon is the one intended. Unfortunately, that name has 

 been sometimes used to designate the whole valley of the Weber 

 River and its larger tributaries. It is quite desirable to find this 

 species alive in the type locality or elsewhere, in order to ascertain 

 the anatomy. In 1915 we searched for it in what is more properly 

 called Weber Canyon, below Gateway, without success. In 1916 

 W'e made two trips to the upper canyon, above Morgan, without 

 success so far as typical haydeni is concerned, but found other 

 interesting forms. Between Morgan and Gateway, a broad valley, 

 with canyons entering from both sides, and the whole canyon south 

 of Echo22 afford a large field as yet wholly untouched. Binney's^^ 

 report of live haydeni received from Hemphill is incorrect, as Hemp- 

 hill did not find true haydeni, though much of his material from the 

 Oquirrh Mountains was sent out under that name, 



Sta. 47, gulch on north side of valley, about half a mile north of 

 Morgan depot. Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey), the binneyi (Hemph.) 

 form, small, from 11 mm. to 16 mm. in diameter, mostly rather 

 depressed, a very few showing one or two spiral color bands. 



" Hague, U. S. Geol. Explor. 40th Parallel, vol. 2, pp. 420-423. 

 20 Butler and Heikes, U. S. Geol. Surv., Bull. No. 640-A, pp. 1-6. 

 2iylmer. Journ. Conch., V, p. 24, PL 8, fig. 1. 



22 See Coalville Quadrangle topographic sheet, U. S. Geol. Surv. 



23 Terr. Moll. U. S., V., p. 159; Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 1G7. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Sta. 114, south side of canyon, about a mile southeast of Morgan 

 depot, close to a big warm spring and picnic ground, where the broad 

 valley narrows into the canyon, east side of a limestone ledge at the 

 base of a red sandstone hill. Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) 

 abundant beneath Balsamorrhiza sagittata, sagebrush and other 

 herbs and shrubs overhanging the rocks, but equally abundant deep 

 in the red soil beneath such plants; an unusual habitat for this 

 subspecies. 



Sta. 115, west side of the same ledge, the same subspecies. Sta- 

 tions 114 and 115 constitute really a single colony, but we arbitrarily 

 separated it and gave different numbers to our material, because 

 many of the shells from one side of the ledge are more depressed than 

 those from the other side, though the ledge is narrow and the colony 

 actually extends across it. 



Sta. 113, a short distance up the canyon from Sta. 114, on same 

 side. Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.), dead shells very abundant 

 on a limestone slope where the scrub oak and mountain maple 

 thicket has recently been burned and all leaves and underbrush thus 

 destroyed. 



Sta. 112, big limestone slides not far above Sta. 113, on same side 

 of canyon, concealed from the road by tall shrubbery. Oreohelix 

 strigosa depressa (Ckll.), small (15 mm. to 18 mm. in diameter), 

 white, strongly banded. 



- Sta. Ill, next point of rocks, about 200 yards east of Sta. 112, 

 at foot of canyon wall, beneath limestone ledge, perhaps two miles 

 east of Morgan. Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey) common in leaves 

 beneath scrub oaks and mountain maples, showing complete inter- 

 gradation between Hemphill's binneyi and albofasciata forms, as at 

 several stations in the Cache Junction district, discussed in our 

 former report. This station is about 65 miles from Cache Junction 

 in an air line. 0. peripherica at all other stations where we have 

 found it lacks the albofasciata form, so it is interesting to find the 

 intergradation again at this most remote station for the species. 



Sta. 110, some distance above Sta. Ill, on same side of canyon, 

 below the railroad tunnel, nearly opposite Sta. 53. Oreohelix strigosa 

 depressa (Ckll.), dormant, deep in the rock slides and hard to find 

 during the hot, dry season when we were there. Generally this 

 subspecies has not been found by us very deep in the slides. 



Sta. 48, both sides of and above the "slide," south side of canyon. 

 Devil's Slide, Utah. Oreohelix haydeni hybrida (Hemph.) common 

 beneath the heavy, drooping radical leaves of Balsamorrhiza, on 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



steep limestone slopes, not in the rock slides. Dead shells plentiful. 

 The vicinity is covered by a thick coat of lime dust from the cement 

 plant. It is strange that any live examples were found under the 

 circumstances. 



Sta. 49, west slope of first gulch that enters the canyon from the 

 north below the Devil's Slide depot. Oreohelix haydeni form gabhiana 

 (Hemph.) under sagebrush, mountain maple, scrub oak, wild cherry 

 and other shrubs at the edges of limestone slides, common alive, 

 dead shells plentiful. The narrow-leafed cottonwood grove in the 

 bottomland beneath the slides yielded: 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi 



Vallonia gracilicosta Reinh. Pils. 



Pwpilla blandi (Morse). Zonitoides arhorea (Say). 



Sta. 50, pools beside the railroad track half a mile below Sta. 49. 



Succinea rusticana Gld. Aplexa hypnorum (L.). 



Lymncea proxima Lea. Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.). 



Physa crandalli Baker ? 



Sta. 51, below Sta. 50, opposite (north of) the railroad tunnel, 

 just east of a dry gulch that comes in from the north. Oreohelix 

 haydeni form gabhiana (Hemph.) plentiful in edges of rock slides. 

 The following were also found: 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi 



Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. Pils. 



Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Sta. 52, across the mouth of the gulch just mentioned, west of 

 Sta. 51, thence along the base of the canyon wall for some distance 

 around the curve. Oreohelix haydeni form gabbiana (Hemph.), less 

 common than at Sta. 51. 



Sta. 5.3, east-facing slope southwest of Sta. 52, west of the railroad 

 tunnel, separated from Sta. 52 by a hundred yards or so of slope 

 free from rock slides, where we found no snails. Oreohelix haydeni 

 form gabbiana (Hemph.), a few found alive, dead shells plentiful. 



Sta. 54, a mile down the canyon from Sta. 53, on an east-facing 

 slope where the wagon road approaches the railroad. Oreohelix 

 haydeni hybrida (Hemph.), plentiful under poison ivy in rock slides. 



The Oreohelices from stations 48, 49, 51, 52, 53 and 54, all belong 

 to the haydeni group. Hence the soft anatomy is the same and shell 

 characters alone must be relied upon in their separation. Not a 

 single example has as strong spiral sculpture as tj-pical haydeni or 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



oquirrhensis, though a few approach it. 0. h. hyhrida, from its type 

 locaUty at Logan, is readily distinguished from 0. h. form gahbiana 

 from its type locaUty in the Oquirrh Mountains, but at these stations 

 we have a puzzhng mixture and variation of characters, so that the 

 determinations are made with some hesitation. The stations are 

 not far apart and in the same canyon, so they may almost be con- 

 sidered one large colony. The form at the extremes of the colony 

 so considered, stations 48 and 54, seems referable to hyhrida, a 

 considerable proportion of those from Sta. 48 being typical, others 

 varying more or less in peripheral angulation and the altitude of the 

 spire, but the spiral sculpture in those from Sta. 54 is obscure, much 

 weaker than in the typical form. Both lots have the whorls well 

 rounded from above and below to the more or less angled, but not 

 keeled, periphery. The form at Sta. 49 (next to 48) and Sta. 53 

 (next to 54), we refer to gahbiana, not typical. It is really transitional 

 from the hyhrida of 48 and 54 to the gahbiana of 51 and 52. On the 

 average the whorls are not so well rounded, the spire flatter and the 

 angulation more pronounced, though they are somewhat variable 

 in all these characters. On the whole, they seem more nearly related 

 to the form at the nearest stations, 51 and 52, than to the form at 

 the more remote stations, 48 and 54. Some examples are entirely 

 indistinguishable from material labelled utahensis from Hemphill's 

 collection. The form at stations 51 and 52, which we refer to 

 gabhiana, has a depressed spire and the whorls slope rather flatly 

 from above and below to a keeled periphery. The spiral sculpture 

 is variable, the primary spirals in some examples being nearly as 

 strong as those in typical oquirrhensis, though only indistinctly seen 

 in others. These forms are further discussed in the sections on 

 Deweyville and Oquirrh Mountains. 



Sta. 55, a small stream by the roadside, perhaps a mile and a half 

 above Morgan, below Sta. 54. 



Lymncea proxima Lea. Aplexa hypnorum (L.), 



Physa ampuUacea Gld. 



Sta. 56, pool by the roadside, about a mile above Morgan, just 

 above where the wagon road crosses the railroad. 

 Pisidium near huachucanum Pils. Lymncea humilis modicella Say. 

 Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.). Planorhis parvus Say. 



Lymncea proxima Lea. Physa ampul' acea Gld. ? 



Sterki says of the Pisidium: "P. huachucanum Pils., or near. 

 Somewhat different' from the originals; somewhat smaller (all speci- 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



mens may not be full-grown) ; superior margin not so straight ; beaks 

 somewhat narrow^er. " 



Stations 47 and 49 to 56 are all on the north side of the canyon, 

 while stations 48 and 110 to 115 are on the south side. 



Salt Lake City, Utah. 



We did not stop at Salt Lake City to do any collecting in 1916, 

 but have recently received from Mr. L. A. Giddings, of that city, 

 two small lots of Oreohelix strigosa depressa form carnea (Hemph.), 

 one from his Sta. 1, upper slopes of Red Butte Canyon, the other 

 from his Sta. 2, close to the creek in City Creek Canyon. In both 

 lots the spires are much more elevated than usual, but otherwise they 

 correspond with Hemphill's specimens of carnea, of which the type 

 locality is "near Salt Lake, Utah," and which we found in Dry 

 Canyon in 1915. Pilsbry writes that the anatomy is that of depressa. 

 It may be well to say that this form, sent out by Hemphill, is to be 

 found in many cabinets bearing a printed label on which, l)y a 

 typographical error, an o has taken the place of an a, making the name 

 corneus, which should be corrected. We also note another typo- 

 graphical error in Hemphill's printed labels, the i having been omitted 

 from gabbiana. 



CalP^ reported the following species from this locality: 



PisidiumabditumHsdd. { = Pisid- Valvata utahensis (Call). 



ium ? ). LymncEa stagnalis Linn. 



M argaritana niargaritifera Pla7iorbis opercularis G\d. 



(Linn.). Planorbis parvus Say. 



Anodonta nidtalliana Lea. Planorbis trivolvis Say. 



Valvata sincera {^&y). Physa gyrina elliptica Lesi. 



As he placed A. wahlametensis Lea and A. californiensis Lea in the 

 synonymy of A. nutialliana Lea, which of these forms he found 

 "somewhat common in the fresh-water streams near Salt Lake City" 

 is an open question. His L. stagnalis is either appressd or wasatchen- 

 sis. Baker^^ reports L. s. wasatchensis and L. proxima Lea from near 

 Salt Lake City. Yarrow-^ reports L. stagnalis and Valvata sincera 

 from "near Salt Lake City." IngersoU-^ also records V. sincera 

 from here. Probably all these records of V. sincera should be referred 



2^U. S. Geol. Surv., Bull. 11, 1884. 



25 Lymn£eidse of North America, pp. 152, 3.59. 



26 (Wheeler's) U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Meridian, V, pp. 941, 948. 



-'' 8th Ann. Rept. (Hayden's) U. S. Geol. and Geog. Surv. Terr., for 1874,. 

 p. 390. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



to V. himieraUs calif ornica Pils. IngersoU also (on the same page of 

 his report) records Fluminicola seminalis Hinds and F. hindsi Stm. 

 from "Salt Lake, Utah/' and F. nuttalliana Stm. from "Warm 

 Springs, near Salt Lake, Utah." The two last mentioned may well 

 be doubted. He also, on p. 399, records Succinea nuttalliana Lea 

 from the Warm Springs locality — a doubtful record. Binney^* 

 records Succinea haydeni W. G. B. from Salt Lake City. 



Utah Lake, Utah. 



This district is covered by the Salt Lake topographic sheet of the 

 United States Geological Survey. Utah Lake was included in Lake 

 Bonneville during the " Lake Period. " It now remains fresh because 

 it has an outlet, the Jordan River, through which it drains into 

 Great Salt Lake. However, the water is said to l)e not so free from 

 salts as formerly, owing to the extensive use of water for irrigation. 

 Cameron-^ reports that the mineral content, chiefly sodium chloride, 

 of the lake water increased from 300 parts of total solids per million 

 parts of solution in 1883, to 1,400 parts per million in 1903 — a period 

 of twenty years. It is not likely that the salinity will increase so 

 much as to be fatal to fresh-water mollusks or even to seriously 

 modify them. CalF" and Stearns have discussed the influence of 

 temperature and salinity in modifjdng the shells of this region, 

 and the arid region farther west. In his bulletin Call records the 

 following species from Utah Lake: 



Pisidium compressum Prime. Lymncea stagnalis Linn. 



Sph(eriu77i dentatum (Hald.). LymncBa utahensis Call. 



Ancylus sp. Physa ampullacea Gld. 



Carinifex newherryi (Lea), living. Physa gyrina elliptica Lea. 

 Fluminicola jusca (Hald.). 



His assertion that S. dentatum here attains great size strongly 

 suggests that he really found P. pilshryanum Sterki, which was not 

 then described, but has since been described from Bear Lake (fossil) 

 and reported from Utah Lake (recent) by Sterki.^^ Yarrow^- reports 

 finding Lymncea stagnalis [= appressa] and Planorbis trivolvis Say 



28 2d Suppl. to 5th vol. Terr. Moll., p. 40. 



^^ Cameron, "The Water of Utah Lake," Science, n. s., vol. XXI, p. 257, 1905. 



30 Call, U. S. Geol. Surv., Bull. No. 11, 1884. Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 XXIV, 1901, 271-299; N. Amer. Fauna, No. 7, pp. 269-283. 



^' Sterki, "Sphserium pilshryanum n. sp.," The Nautilus, XXII, pp. 141-142, 

 1909; "A preliminary catalog of the North American Sphseriidse, " Annals of 

 Carnegie Museum, X, p. 437, 1916. 



'2 Yarrow, (Wheeler's) U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Meridian, V, pp. 941, 

 946-947, 1875. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



at Utah Lake, but says he found the latter aUve at only one locality 

 in Utah, namely, near Salt Lake City. IngersolP^ reports Fluminicola 

 fusca (Hald.) from Utah Lake, placing it in the family Amnicolidse 

 and on the same page repeated the same record under the name 

 Leptoxis fusca in the family Melaniidse. His LHah Lake record of 

 Lymn(ra catascopium Say cannot be accepted. Pilsbry^^ records 

 Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.) from Utah Lake; Fluminicola fusca 

 (Hald.) from Utah Lake, Bear Lake and Malad River, and Amnicola 

 limosa (Say) from Utah Lake and Spring Lake. 



Sta. 127, shore of Utah Lake and adjacent slough, two miles south 

 of Lehi, Utah. Very few live moUusks were found except Succinea, 

 but dead shells were abundant, as follows: 



Sphcerium pilsbryanum Sterki. Valvata humeralis calif ornica Pils. 



Pisidium near variabile Prime. Valvata utahensis (Call), type 



Pisidium sp. locality. 



Anodon'a luahlamatensis Lea. Ancylus sp. 



Succinea haydeni W. G. B., living. Lymncea proxima Lea. 



Vitrea hammoriis Strom. Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say. 



EuconulusfulvusalaskensisFils. Lymncea utahensis Call, type 



Zonitoides arhorea (Say). locality. 



Carinifex newherryi (Lea) . Lymncea humilis modicella Say. 



Fluminicola seminalis (Hinds) . Lymncea ohrussa Say. 



Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). PlanorbistrivolvisbinneyiTryon. 



Amnicola limosa (Say). Planorhis parvus Say. 



Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.). Physa lordi Baird. 



P. t. binneyi here attains large size, the largest one measured 

 having a diameter of 36 mm., and all specimens collected have the 

 characteristic strap-like whorls and strong sculpture of this form, 

 but the aperture is considerably expanded and not quite typical. 

 Judged by Baird's description and Binney's figures, the Physa from 

 this station appears to be true P. lordi. Material from the Douglas 

 Lake district, Michigan, referred by some conchologists to lordi, 

 by others to P. ancillaria parkeri, differs markedly from the Utah 

 Lake form and Binney's figures in its tabulate form, which is due 

 to the decidedly flat upper surface of the last whorl and the much 

 more acute angulation of the shoulder. The same is true of material 

 from Chelsea, Quebec, though the difference in that case is not so 



'3 8th Ann. Rept. (Hayden's) U. S. Geol. and Geog. Surv. Terr., for 1874, 

 pp. 391, 406. 



^^ Pilsbry, "Catalogue of Amnicolidse of the Western United States," The 

 Nautilus, XII, pp. 122-123, 1899. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



marked or uniform. Valvata h. californica here is less highly polished 

 and more loosely coiled than at Sta. 78, Bear Lake. 



Sta. 125, creek and sloughs south of Provo, from one to two miles 

 north of Springville. 



Succinea haydeni W. G. B. Lymncea humilis modicel a Say. 



Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.). Planorbis trivolvis near hinneyi 

 Fluminicola fusca (Hald.). Tryon. 



Valvata humeralis californica Pils. Planorbis ^parvus Say. 



Lymncea proxima Lea. Physa crandalli Baker ? 

 Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say. 



The Planorbis cf. hinneyi here is much smaller than at Sta. 127, 

 the largest measuring only 20.5 mm. in diameter; some as strongly 

 sculptured, but the whorls not so strap-like; some with the nearly 

 circular aperture of horfiii Tryon. Yarrow^^ records Physa eUiptica 

 Lea from Provo, Rush Lake and Virgin River, Utah. To what 

 species his records should be referred we do not know.* CrandalP*^ 

 confines P. eUiptica to the region east of the Mississippi. 



Sta. 126, gulch a mile and a half northeast of Springville. Oreohelix 

 strigosa depressa (Ckll.), a few dead shells found, no live examples 

 obtained. 



Oquirrh Mountains, Utah. 



We spent one rainy day at Bingham. Such investigation as we 

 were able to make in the rain led to the conclusion that it is not good 

 snail territory, though doubtless more extensive and persistent search 

 would result in some finds. 



Sta. 116, rock slides and ledges, chiefly limestone, south and 

 southeast of Garfield, on the ancient lake terraces at the northern end 

 of the range. Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) (?), plentiful in rock slides, 

 but several hours of digging deep into the slides and under the new 

 growth of shrubs failed to produce a single live snail. The dead 

 shells were weathered and scorched, the periostracum and embryonic 

 sculpture destroyed, so we do not feel confident of their identity. 



Sta. 117, gravel pit on one of the lake terraces north of the west 

 edge of Garfield. This pit yielded fossil fresh-water shells of species 

 living now in the region, and added nothing to the fossils recorded 

 from the region by Call. 



Sta. 118, sloughs between the west end of Garfield and the main 

 line of the railroad. 



35 (Wheeler's) U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Meridian, V, p. 937. 

 3fi The Nautilus, XV, pp. 54-55, 1901. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Lymncea iraskii Tryon. Physa sp. 



Planorbis parvus Say. • 



Call" records Paludestrina longinqua (Gld.) from Lake Point, 

 a short distance west of Garfield, and Pilsbry^* records Amnicola 

 {Cincinnatia) cincinnatiensis (Anth.) from the same place, as well 

 as from Salt Lake and the Sevier Lake Valley. 



Sta. 14, southeast of Black Rock, in a small ravine, above the 

 lowest prominent limestone ledge and below the second one. 



Sta. 119, down the slope from Sta. 14, below the lower ledge. 



Sta. 15, gulch southeast of the railroad flag station of Morris, 

 perhaps four or five miles south of Sta. 14. 



Sta. 123, south side of a ravine about half a mile north of Sta. 15. 



Sta. 122, next gulch north of Sta. 123. 



Sta. 121, west slope of mountain and next gulch north of Sta. 122, 

 almost connecting with Sta. 120. 



Sta. 120, gulch and divide north of Sta. 121. 



Oreohelix haydeni oquirrhensis (Hemph.). 



Patula strigosa var. oquirrhensis, Hemphill, Binnev's 2d Suppl. to 5th vol. 



of Terr. Moll. U. S., pp. 30, 3-i, PI. II, fig. 12. 

 Patula strigosa var. gabbiana Hemphill, Binney's 2d Suppl. to 5th vol. Terr. 



Moll., pp. 30, 34, PL II, fig. 9. 

 Patula strigosa var. utahensis Hemphill, Binney's 2d Suppl. to oth vol. of 



Terr. Moll. 



Further collections in the Oc^uirrh Mountains and a careful study 

 of the material obtained by us, as well as a study of Hemphill's 

 material, convinces us that the forms above mentioned cannot be 

 considered distinct subspecies, though the names maj^ be useful as 

 descriptive terms by which to designate the different phases. 

 Tj^ical oquirrhensis is a robust shell, with strong revolving ribs. 

 The form gabbiana is less robust, with less pronounced and sometimes 

 almost obsolete ribs. The form utahensis, as distributed by Hemphill, 

 is smoother than gabbiana, with a less pronounced keel. Though the 

 extremes are so very different, complete intergradation is found 

 within a short distance, and in each gulch there is a considerable 

 difference in shape, size and sculpture. In our former report we 

 referred a few shells obtained at Sta. 14 to gabbiana. We revisited 

 this station and Sta. 119, a few rods below 14, and found dead shells 

 rather common in small rock slides, but a thorough search of the 

 slides and the scant shrubbery brought to light no live examples. 

 This material seems referable to the form utahensis, of which these 



"U. S. Geol. Surv., Bull. 11, p. 20. 

 38 The Nautilus, XII, p. 122, 1889. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



stations are possibly the type locality, described as a '^ detached pile 

 of rocks," ''at the foot of the mountain." It has seemed almost 

 hopeless to recognize utaliensis. Pilsbry^^ has discussed the confusion 

 in which he found the descriptions and figures of this form. Hemp- 

 hill's description (in a letter to Binney) was quite inadequate, as 

 follows : 



"This has the form of hemphiUi, but is destitute of the revolving 

 ridges of haydeni. The specimens were all constant in sculpturing, 

 but varied very much in size and somewhat in form." 



Binney published the letter, and on a subsequent page of the same 

 publication says of utahensis: 



"This is a rough, coarse, carinated strigosa, figured in Terr. Moll., 

 V, p. 158, fig. 66. The peristome is sometimes continuous by a 

 heavy raised callus, connecting its terminations. It is sometimes 

 smaller and more elevated." 



As Pilsbry has pointed out, the figure referred to was based upon 

 material from Big Horn Basin, Wyoming, and Binney added charac- 

 ters belonging to the Wyoming form, now known as 0. strigosa 

 magnicornu Pils. The connected terminations of the peristome is a 

 common feature in a number of species of Oreohelix, including Hemp- 

 hill's forms oquirrhensis and gabbiana, and hence is not of diagnostic 

 significance. Material we have seen from the Hemphill collection, 

 bearing the name utahensis, is mostly labelled "near Salt Lake," 

 but one small lot is labelled " near Logan. " We cannot know whether 

 any of it came from Oquirrh Mountains, l^ut it all agrees quite well 

 with our stations 14 and 119 material. The exact type locality of 

 utahensis is not known, except that it is on the west side of this range, 

 and there is no more probable place than these two stations, which 

 really form but one small colony, being each of small extent and but 

 a few rods apart. We cannot ascertain from the descriptions and 

 figures alone, with certainty, just what utahensis is. Material from 

 Hemphill's collection does not settle it, because of the absence of 

 designated types and cotypes, the uncertainty as to whether any 

 we have seen are even topotypes, and the fact that he apparently 

 used that name for more than one form. His hemphilli, with which 

 he compared utahensis, is not true hemphilli, but is the material he 

 collected in the Oquirrh Mountains and distributed under that 

 name, which cannot be separated from his oquirrhensis from the 

 same locality. By referring to the descriptions and figures,'"' we 



39 Nautilus, XXIX, pp. 139-141, IQlf). 



«.Binney's 2d Suppl. to 5th vol. Terr. Moll., pp. 30, 34, PL II, figs. 9, 12. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



find that oquirrhensis has very strong ribs and is keeled, agreeing: 

 with specimens he distributed under that name and with our material 

 from Sta. 120; while in his gabbiana the spirals are quite weak or 

 nearly obsolete, with the periphery compressed into a distinct keel^ 

 the primary spirals being usually visible to the unaided eye, the 

 secondaries visible under a lens, thus agreeing in all respects with 

 the material from our Sta. 15. It has distinctly the two series of 

 spirals characteristic of the haydeni group — a few ribs, with inter- 

 calated riblets. Our stations 14 and 119 specimens, which we 

 consider of the utahensis form, are well angled, but the periphery is 

 not pinched into a keel. There is perhaps a little greater variation 

 in the altitude of the spire. The spiral sculpture is weaker, and in 

 most examples the microscopic riblets are crowded and subequal, 

 instead of a few stronger ribs with intercalated riblets. However, 

 in a few examples the compound spiral sculpture is distinctly present, 

 thus forming a series grading into the form gabbiana. Viewed in 

 mass, material from stations 14 and 119 can be distinguished at once 

 from that found at Sta. 15, and Sta. 15 material can be distinguished 

 from that found at Sta. 120, but plenty of individuals are found to 

 connect them all. If anyone insists upon considering these forms 

 sufficiently distinct, in spite of complete intergradation, to merit 

 separate names, then utahensis should be applied to the Sta. 14 form, 

 as it is usually "destitute of the revolving ribs [not of the riblets] of 

 haydeni,' ' a description not at all fitting other forms from this region. 

 In selecting a name, it would seem most natural to select the one 

 occurring first in the original publication, though all occur on the 

 same page in Hemphill's letter to Binney. That would be utahensis. 

 The same thing would result if we select the first one in Binney's 

 notes, as utahensis precedes oquirrhensis and gabbiana by one page. 

 We have seen the difficulty of recognizing u'ohensis, while oquirrhensis 

 is well figured and sufficiently described. The confused description 

 and figure do not satisfy the priority rule requiring a name to be 

 accompanied by a description, in order to be accepted. Part of 

 the description flatly contradicts the Hemphill specimens, which 

 would otherwise perhaps enable us to definitely decide what the 

 name applied to. The rules of nomenclature justify the selection 

 of the name oquirrhensis, instead of utahensis, under the circum- 

 stances. Especially is this course justified by Art. 28 of the Inter- 

 national Code of Zoological Nomenclature, which provides that 

 "if the names are of the same date, that selected by the first reviser 

 shall stand," and recommendation b, that a specific name accom- 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



panied by both description and figure stands in preference to one 

 accompanied only by a diagnosis or only by a figure, the figure of 

 utahensis in the present case being either spurious or doubtful. 

 The page precedence recommendation (c) only applies when "other 

 things are equal." The name utahensis should be dropped and 

 gabbiana used (if at all) only as a ''form" name, not in a subspecific 

 sense. 



We revisited Sta. 15 and found one live example of the gabbiana 

 form, so it is possible that the colony may survive the destructive 

 fire of 1915, as a new growth of scrub oak is starting and will soon 

 furnish fair cover. 



Starting at Sta. 120, we found old, bleached shells of Oreohelix 

 haydeni oquirrhensis (Hemph.), robust and strongly ribbed spirally, 

 though the ribbing is somewhat variable. The ribs below the 

 sharply keeled periphery vary from four to seven and are usually 

 somewhat unequal in prominence or spacing or both. Above the 

 keel there are usually four ribs, sometimes only three. These shells 

 are very abundant among the charred stumps of scrub-oak thickets, 

 which had been recently burned, but were not found in the rock 

 slides. Persistent search up the gulch and across the low divide to 

 the south, failed to reveal a single live snail, though everywhere 

 "bones" were plentiful to the top of the divide. They are all much 

 weathered. Our impression is that the colony may have been 

 destroyed long ago, as this portion of the range has apparently been 

 swept by fires before, and is now barren for manj^ miles. Hemphill 

 found this form abundant alive somewhere near here over thirty 

 years ago. We found a number of bleached shells which we doubt- 

 fully assign to Succinea oregonensis Lea. They vary from grosvenori- 

 like to avara-like shells. The absence of color enhances the difficulty 

 of specific determination. 



Probably the colony of Sta. 120 crosses the divide well \ip the 

 mountain, and thus connects with Sta. 121, in the next ravine, where 

 the same subspecies of Oreohelix was found, all dead shells, some 

 nearly as coarsely ribbed as at Sta. 120, though the average examples 

 have much less conspicuous ribs, usually seven or eight below, 

 occasionally only four. 



At Sta. 122, on the west slope of the mountain, not in the gulch, 

 but only a short distance from 121, the few examples found, all dead 

 shells, are smaller, slightly flatter and smoother than at Sta. 121, 

 very near typical 0. h. gabbiana (Hemph.), but exhibiting a tendency 

 to grade into oquirrhensis. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



This near-gabbiana form was found again at Sta. 123, but the 

 shells here were somewhat larger. 



Material reported from these mountains by Hemphill under the 

 names haydeni, hemphilli and oqidrrhensis is all oquirrhensis. Re- 

 peated careful examinations, by one of the present writers, of such 

 material in several Hemphill collections, fail to discover any basis 

 for or consistency in his separation of the material. Professor 

 T. D. A, Cockerell and Dr. Paul Bartsch recentl}^ at our request, 

 compared examples of oquirrhensis from our Sta. 120 with three 

 examples from the type lot of haijdeni, from Weber Canyon, in the 

 United States National ^luseum, and find them "quite distinct." 

 Professor Cockerell writes: "The difference in the spiral keels is 

 constant. In haydeni the whorls are rounded, the keels subequal, 

 and the peripheral keel not distinct as in the Oquirrh Mountain 

 specimens. Haydeni has a distinct channel below the suture, which 

 is not present in the Oquirrh ^Mountain material." 



Eureka, Utah. 



Sta. 6, north side of Godiva Blount ain, in the southeast edge of the 

 town. In 1915, in collecting about 800 specimens of the small form 

 of Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) at this station, we obtained the type 

 lot of 0. hemphilli eurekensis H. and D., only seven specimens, all 

 dead shells. In 1916 we revisited the station, but found no more 

 of the eurekensis until we crossed a shallow ravine which marked the 

 eastern boundary of our former work. There we found the small 

 cooperi and eurekensis about equally plentiful, and obtained about 

 600 of the latter, mostly alive. The anatomy of eurekensis, according 

 to Pilsbry, shows relationship to the southern yavapai group. The 

 anatomy of hemphilli is as yet unknown, eurekensis being designated 

 a subspecies of it on shell characters only. We also found at this 

 station Pupilla hlandi (Morse), common; Succinea avara Say (?), 

 a few worn specimens; Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey, rare. 



Sta. 124, west slope of Pinyon Mountain, three miles northeast 

 of Eureka. Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.), a few small, dead 

 shells beneath Kunzia tridentata near limestone ledges. We found 

 none alive and no dead shells in the rock slides, though we made a 

 long search for them. A box containing the same form is in Mrs. 

 Oldroyd's Hemphill collection, bearing the following label: "Var. 

 alhida, corneus, etc., Eureka, Utah, 1912. Oiled." The shells are 

 a little larger than those we found. 



6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 20. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Three hundred and two persons present. 



The presentation of papers for pubhcation under the following 

 titles was reported by the Publication Committee: 



"Notes on fishes from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Maryland," 

 by Henry W. Fowler (February 21, 1917). 



"A second collection of fishes from the Panama Canal Zone," 

 by Henry W. Fowder (February 21, 1917). 



''The Oligocene MoUusca of Santo Domingo," by H. A. Pilsbry 

 (February 27, 1917). 



Dr. William E. Hughes made a beautifully illustrated com- 

 munication on travel routes in Korea, Manchuria, and China. 

 (No abstract.) 



Eugene A. Rau was elected a member. 



William Morris Davis, Ph.D., of Cambridge, Mass., was elected a 

 correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES, VIII: THE BLACK RANGE, 



NEW MEXICO. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY AND J. H. FERRISS. 



In the summer of 1915, beginning in the second week of August, 

 we collected in the Black Range of New Mexico. Approaching 

 from the west, by way of the Mimbres Valley and up Gallina Canyon, 

 we reached the crest above the head of Silver Creek. Subsequent 

 camps were made at intervals from Sawyer Peak, the southern end 

 of the range, to Reed's ranch on Black Canyon, our route being along 

 the crest trail, with numerous short trips down the slopes, and a two- 

 day trip to Kingston, in the eastern foothills. After September 12th 

 Ferriss continued the exploration alone, in Morgan and Diamond 

 Creeks on the main range, then eastward to Chloride, the Cuchillo 

 Mountains and the San Mateo Mountains, west of San Marcial, 

 in the southern edge of Socorro County. Travel was by pack train. 

 Throughout the trip we had the services of an excellent packer, 

 Teodoro Solis, a native of Chihuahua. 



The Black Range is on the boundary between Grant and Sierra 

 Counties, about 40 miles north of Deming, New Mexico. In the 

 north it forms part of the continental divide. The Mimbres River 

 Valley on the west isolates the Black fronl the Mogollon Range and 

 its outliers. The range is narrow and sharp, its flanks deeply fur- 

 rowed, but without long spurs. Hillsboro Peak is 10,000 ft. high. 

 Much of the crest trail is from 8,500 to slightly over 9,000 ft. elevation. 



Fine forest extends down nearly to the 7,000-foot contour. It 

 has been well protected against fire and its remoteness has deterred 

 the lumberman. The . yellow pine, spruce and quaking asp are 

 large and the ground well covered with forest mold. 



There seem to be limestone outcrops on all sides of Sawyer Peak. 

 The scattered exposures of these ledges were traced from the south 

 end of the range up the west side at between 7,000 and 8,000 feet, 

 as far as Iron Creek at our Station 16. Limestone was not seen on 

 that side of the range further north, on Black Canyon or Diamond 

 Creek, where it was looked for down to about 6,000 feet. On the 

 east side limestone appears in the foothills at intervals, as around 

 Kingston and Hillsboro, at Hermosa, Chloride, and some distance 

 further north. Otherwise the Black Range is of igneous or meta- 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



26 ^25 





==*:> 



Ah 



\ Fire- CabiVi^li?!^'^ 



1 7^-iTz^ — :^ Z i %3\ — ^ 



I iGraViitd * 

 \ Ifii Peaks' 







— - -V -c-^v--^ +^. 



^28 

 -24 





oft--, --l- N I ,/," 



___,.*H ^^n iT. Jj^ — \ — 



-::<^<^~ I xS^i 7-#^i ^vTrt - 



-21 



BLACK RANGE 



^ Streams 



Dry cio, 



Tra/Zs 



= = = = = = Ro2>>.ds 



■qP\ 



'^ u9/ 



v^-^ 



1 >if 64 

 o* - -^^ - 



Mi 



• I 



"A 



» u 

 ■ It 



) 



.^ 





ft i sf i 



il 



4- 



Fig. 1. — Collecting stations in the Black Range, southern section. The map^is 



ruled into square miles. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 







-t— 



7^ 



tP 



-\_ 



I (tl\ 



I f / 1 ti ; 



t •• 



-:>_j^ '<! 



:-*..ir 



Fig. 2. — Collecting stations in the Black Range, northern section. The map is 



ruled into square miles. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



morphic rock. Except at the southern end, there is no mining in 

 the range at present. 



A good crest trail is maintained by the Forestry Service, and 

 several cabins along it are occupied by forest rangers during the 

 dry season. At the time we were there, the range was uninhabited 

 except for two men caring for mines in Silver Creek, and several at 

 Reed's ranch on Black Canj^on. Deer, bear and wild turkeys are 

 abundant. There are no rattlesnakes in the forest zone, though 

 occasionally seen up to about 6,000 feet. 



Eastern Foothills of the Black Range. — Returning to Deming from 

 Chloride, the limestone ridges about Chloride were found barren of 

 shells, although they had been seen there by miners at an earlier 

 day. At the Oliver Mine, on Mineral Creek, 4 miles above Chloride, 

 Oreohelix pilsbryi was found. A few miles southward, on the north side 

 of a limestone mountain at Sam's Canyon, Holospira cockerelli was 

 abundant, and a few very old " bones " of Oreohelix metcalfei and cooperi 

 were found. Again in a like situation on the Little Palomas Creek, 

 Holospira was plentiful, and again at Hermosa. This is a small 

 village on the Big Palomas Creek, all that remains of a settlement 

 of over 2,000 miners in flush times. Teodoro had seen shells here 

 years ago, when employed as superintendent at the Ocean Wave 

 Mine, but not even "bones" remain. Across the stream, however, 

 and down stream for a mile or more, Oreohelix and Holospira were 

 abundant. Hard digging was required to get living shells, as the 

 hillside of fine soil and limestone spawls had been completely plowed 

 up by herds of goats. The snails found shelter under the roots of 

 dead oaks and in undisturbed rock. 



In the foothill region there was extensive mining years ago, with 

 consequent destruction of the small wood which grew in favorable 

 places. 



Although a sharp lookout was kept, nothing further was found 

 on the return trip except a colony of Ashmunella in a slide of igneous 

 rock along the wagon road near the mouth of a small creek tril)utary 

 to Las Animas River. All were dead except a few very young ones- 

 No topographic map has been published. Our collecting stations 

 are therefore plotted (pp. 84 and 85) on the Forest Service Tem- 

 porary Base Map of the Gila National Forest.^ A list of the stations 

 is given at the end of this article. 



^ Second edition, corrected to January 1, 1916. 




1917. j natural sciences of philadelphia. 87 



The Cuchillo Range. 



This range is about six miles east of Chloride, the post office of 

 Fairview at the foot of the mountains. The peaks probably reach 

 up to 7,500 feet. 



On a brushy northern slope on the Thomas Scale trail, in the 

 southern end of the range, Oreohelix metcalfei cuchiUeusis and Holo- 

 spira cockereUi were found in abundance. The cover was scant, 

 and cattle plentiful. Both species were found again a couple of miles 

 further on, in Frank Calhoun's pasture. In both places they lived 

 in groves of oak, under limestone spawls and dead timber. 



At the north end of the range the peaks are higher, some having 

 large outcrops of fossiliferous limestone, but the only evidences of 

 living shells obtained were a few "bones" of Helicodiscus. In drift 

 debris, however, were many small shells which apparently graze on 

 the grassy slopes and meadows. 



The San Mateo Range. 



The San Mateo Range probably reaches a height of 8,000 feet. 

 The southern end is about 15 miles north of Monticello Post Office, 

 a village on the Canada Alamosa. The rock in this part of the range 

 is a friable, crumbling granite. Nearly the entire southern end is 

 a continuous slope of granitic fragments, many feet in depth. The 

 mesa continues nearl}^ to Monticello. Pinyon, juniper and low- 

 growing shrubs cover the hillsides. Along Chippy Creek, walnut, 

 quaking asp and yellow pine prevail. 



Around the edges of the rocky slides, Oreohelix cooperi and Ash- 

 munella were fairly abundant, but the smaller shells were scarce. 

 A day given to the peaks overlooking San Marcial, a couple of miles 

 farther, added only a few 0. cooperi to the collection. 



Characteristics of the Black Range Mollusk Fauna. 



The snail fauna of the Black Range is like that of the ]\Iogollon 

 Range in the rich development of Ashmunella, the species being also 

 related. Coarsely granulate species are a unique feature. It differs 

 from the ranges southward and westward by the absence of SonoreUa. 

 A special feature of the range is the Oreohelix metcalfei group, wonder- 

 fully varied in shape and sculpture. No doubt further members 

 of this group will be found in Sierra and Socorro Counties. Oreohelix 

 swopei also is special to the northern end of the Black Range, so far 

 as we know. 



The crest of the range everywhere has an abundant Canadian 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [INIaich, 



zone fauna of small shells, Vertigo, Pupilla, Vitrina, Thysa?iophora 

 ingersolli, etc., in common with similar elevations as far west as the 

 Santa Catalinas in Arizona. Also the Canadian Oreohelix cooperi. 



List of Species. 



The specimens have been studied by both authors. Types are 

 in coll. A. N. S. Phila.; paratypes in coll. Ferriss. 



HELICID^. 

 ASHMUNELLA. 



The Black Range Ashmunellas resemble those of the Mogollon 

 and Chiricahua Ranges in the genitalia. The penis is more or less 

 distinctly bipartite by a submedian constriction. 



In A. binneyi, A. tetrodon, and in A. mogollonensis of the Mogollon 

 Range, a retractor muscle of a few slender strands attaches to 

 both segments of the penis and to the epiphallus further up, but 

 there is no continuation attaching to the diaphragm. 



In A. mendax and A. cockereUi with its subspecies there is, in 

 addition to the incoherent penial retractor just described, a broad, 

 very thin and extremely short band connecting the epiphallus with 

 the diaphragm. This is similar to the condition in most other 

 Ashmunellas except that the connection with the diaphragm is here 

 very short. 



All of the species have the usual short flagellum, about 1.5 mm. 

 long. The constancy in Ashmunella of this minute, seemingly 

 vestigeal organ is remarkable. 



Aside from the particulars noted above, the organs are much alike 

 in the several species. For convenient comparison the measurements, 

 in millimeters, are given in one table, .4. mogollonensis being added 

 for comparison. 



Ashmunella tetrodon Pils. and Ferr. 



Ashmmella tetrodon P. & F., Xautilus, XXIX, June, 1915, p. 15, PL 1, 

 figs. l-3a. 



Southern slope of the San Mateo ]Mountains, Socorro County, 

 New Mexico. 



This species was described from the western slope of the Mogollon 

 Mountains, and its occurrence in the San Mateo Range appears 

 anomalous. The numerous specimens obtained are quite constant, 

 showing none of the variations noted in the INIogollons. 



The genitalia of one of these specimens are figured, PI. X, fig. 6-. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



89 



Ashmunella tetrodon fragilis n. subsp. PI. VII, figs. 1-16. 



The shell is markedly thinner than .4. tetrodon, and subangular 

 peripherally, the periphery situated high. Basal teeth small and 

 well separated. Parietal tooth .smaller than in A. tetrodon. There 

 is no denticle between its inner end and the upper termination of 

 the lip. 



Alt. 6.5, diam. 14 mm.; 5| whorls. No. 115,753, A. N. S. P. 



One colony was found. Station 58, in slides on south side of Cave 

 Creek, near its mouth, and an equal distance from where the wagon 

 road starts up a long-grade hillside on the trail from Chloride to 

 Hillsboro. in the eastern foothills of the Black Range. 



Ashmunella tetrodon animorum n. subsp. PI. VII, figs. 2-26. ' 



The shell resembles A. tetrodon, but differs by having the Ijasal 

 teeth much closer together and united b}- a callus. The parietal 

 tooth is simple; the outer lip-tooth is long. Color light buff, with a 

 slightly brownish tinge above. Under a strong lens some imperfect 

 granulation is produced by the interruption and irregularity of the 

 gro^^i:h striae on the penult whorl. There is also an extremely minute 

 spiral striation on the later whorls. 



Alt. 7, diam. 15 mm.; oj whorls (type, No. 115,717). 

 " 5.4. •• 12 " (Station .36). 



Black Range, from Station 26, Holden's Spring (type loc), north- 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



ward to Black Canyon (Reed's) and Morgan Creek. Taken at 

 15 stations. 



This is a common shell at high elevations, in the mountains north 

 of Hillsboro Peak. Especially in the labyrinth of canyons forming 

 the heads of Las Animas Canyon, but also on the western slope of 

 the range. Most of the stations are between 8,000 and 9,000 feet. 

 It was found mainly under dead wood on shady and rather humid 

 slopes. 



Very often the inner of the two basal teeth is wanting, being 

 reduced to a sloping callus against the other tooth. 



Ashmunella cockerelli n. sp. PI. VII, figs. 3, 4,9. 



The shell is umbilicate (umbilicus between one-fifth and one-sixth 

 the total diameter, enlarging in the last half whorl, rather tubular 

 further in); depressed; carinate at the periphery; the shape recalling 

 Polygyra corolinensis and obstricta; wood-brown above, usually 

 somewhat paler at the base, having a buff streak indicating a former 

 resting stage about the middle of the last whorl. Surface lusterless 

 except the earliest whorls. Sculpture of close-set, irregular pebble-like 

 granules on the last whorl, finer on the whorl preceding, before which 

 it is finely striate and slightly punctate, the first Ih whorls smooth 

 and glossy. The inner whorls are convex, the penult whorl flattened, 

 the last somewhat convex above, but excavated on both sides of the 

 strong peripheral keel. It is rather swollen below the keel, particu- 

 larly in the last half. It descends shortly in front, and is guttered 

 behind the outer and l)asal margins of the lip. The aperture is very 

 oblique, subcircular and toothless. Lip is reflected and somewhat 

 thickened within. 



Alt. 8.2, diam. 16.4 mm.; 5| whorls (type, figs. 3, 9). 

 " 7.2, " 17.8 " 



South of Sawyer's Peak, on slopes of the ravine at Grand Central 

 Mine (Station 20), and in the next two ravines on the trail to the 

 peak (stations 19 and 22). Also further north at Station 12^, a short 

 distance above Spade's cabin. 



This species, which it gives us pleasure to name for Professor 

 T. D. A. Cockerell, is remarkable for its strong carina and roughly 

 pebbly sculpture, which is coarsest on the latter part of the whorl. 

 The upper surface is usually convex, but often nearly flat. The 

 periphery of the penult whorl frequently projects a little above the 

 suture in the individuals with flattened spire. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Ashmunella cockerelli perobtusa n. subsp. Pi. VII, figs. 7, la. 



The shell is sharply angular in the young, and on the front of the 

 last whorl, ])ut becomes rounded and rather swollen in the last third. 

 The granulation is minute, as in the following race, and in places 

 the granules are linked into spiral lines. 



Alt. 7.8, diam. 16 mm.; b\ whorls. 



Locality, Station 21, a ravine about two miles to the left of the 

 trail (going down) from the camp site on Sawyer Peak to the Grand 

 Central Mine, and at a somewhat higher level than the mine. 



Type No. 115,750, A. N. S. P.; paratypes in Ferriss coll. 



As one of the authors was lost when he found this colony, its exact 

 location cannot be made perfectly clear'; yet by turning along a 

 trail which branches to the left before the steep descent into the 

 second ravine from the Grand Central Mine, the snail hunter must 

 get into the vicinity of the perobtusa colony. It is in a ravine on 

 the left side of said trail. 

 Ashmunella cockerelli argenticola n. subsp. PI. VII, fig. 5. 



This form differs from A. cockerelli by the far smoother surface; 

 the granulation being very fine, and on the base the granules are 

 connected into spiral threads, closely placed, and not visible over 

 the whole base. The keel is strong, and continues to the lip, thereby 

 differing from A. c. perobtusa. 



Alt. 7.4, diam. 16 mm. (type). 



Upper Silver Creek and its branches, above 7,500 feet, to the 

 northern flank of Sawyer Peak, about 500 feet below the summit. 

 It was taken at stations 3, 4|, 6 and 9 on Silver Creek, 10 and 10^ on 

 a tributary from the north which enters at Mitchell Gray's cabin, 

 11, gulch south of Gray's cabin, and 17^ near the summit of Sawyer 

 Peak. The type locality is Silver Creek just below the box, where 

 the trail makes a detour on the steep northern slope. This is proba- 

 bly between 8,000 and 8,500 feet, Gray's cabin being at 7,500 feet. 



In the type locality. Station 4|, the diameter is 15 to 16 mm., and 

 the keel projects but little or not at all above the suture. Some lots 

 vary more. At Station 11 the diameter is from 13.7 to 16 mm., and 

 the keel of the penult whorl often projects. In some lots there are 

 coarse, conspicuous wrinkles of growth, as at Station 10. The spire 

 varies in convexity in all lots, and is often almost flat. 

 Ashmunella binneyi n. sp. PI. VII, fig. 8. 



The shell is depressed, with low but convex spire and angular 

 periphery; isabella color above, paler below. Sculpture of very 

 minute, interrupted, somewhat anastomosing striae along growth- 

 lines; some weak traces of spiral lines on the base. Whorls slowly 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



widening, convex, the last angular or subangular in front, descending 

 a little to the aperture. Umbilicus widening rapidly in the last 

 whorl, one-fifth the total diameter. Aperture toothless, rounded, 

 lunate, the peristome white, evenly and rather narrowly reflected 

 throughout. 



Alt. 7, diam. 15.5 mm.; 5 whorls. (Type, Station 8|.) 



Diam. 13.5 to 16.7 mm, (Station 15). 



Black Range at stations 7 and 8|, on Silver Creek above the 

 ''box"; 13, head of Bull Top Creek, and 15, Spring Creek, a tribu- 

 tary of Iron Creek. The type locality, Station 8|, is near the deserted 

 cabin just above the box of Silver Creek, at an elevation of about 

 8,500 feet. 



This species differs from A. mendax by the angularity and the 

 microscopic sculpture of the last whorl. Also by the absence of 

 any penial retractor muscle attached to the diaphragm. It is far 

 smoother than any form of A. cockereV.i, and not carinate. 



It is certainly far less widely spread than A. mendax. We found 

 it onh' in an area of a couple of miles along the western flank of the 

 range, from Upper Silver Creek to Upper Spring Creek, well within 

 the heavily forested zone. No doubt it will be found over a some- 

 what wider area; yet its absence in our many stations both north and 

 south indicate that it is a relatively local species. 



Ashmunella mendax n- sp. PL VII, figs. 6, 6a, 66. 



The shell resembles A. mogollonensis, but is less robust, with 

 different microscopic sculpture, lighter colored, being between 

 tawny-olive and saccardo umber, often with a lighter streak from a 

 former resting period. The third and fourth whorls have minute 

 growth-wrinkles interrupted to form oblong granules in places, and 

 an excessively minute spiral striation. On the last whorl the growth- 

 wrinkles are low, unequal and continuous, and there are many weakly 

 impressed spiral lines. Last whorl descends slightl}' in front. The 

 aperture is small, toothless; lip white, narrowly reflected. The 

 umbilicus is cylindric within, but in the last whorl opens out to more 

 than twice its former diameter. 



Alt. 9.3, diam. 20, width of umbilicus 5.2 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Black Range, at the following stations: 2, Gallina Canyon, 

 4 miles above Pryor's upper cabin. Sawyer Peak at stations 18, 

 northeast, and 23, east of camp on the saddle, about 20 minutes' 

 walk down the mountain. Stations 16, Iron Creek above confluence 

 of Spring Creek, and 16|, around Wright's cabin, near the head of the 

 creek. Station 26, Holden's Spring, at one of the heads of Holden's 

 Prong of Animas Canyon. Station 28, southwest side of Hillsboro 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Peak. Station 27, west of Animas ranger cabin, and Station 30, 

 about 3| miles west, down the mountain. Station 49, Black Canyon, 

 above Diamond Bar ranch house, on the western slope of the 

 range. Station 32, garden of Stephen Reay, west end of Kingston. 

 Type locality, Station 16. 



The shell, while superficially very like A. mogoUoiiensis, is easily 

 distinguished by the somewhat granose intermediate whorls and 

 far less deeply engraved last whorl. In A. mogollonensis there is no 

 granulation, and the last whorl is very deeply and closely engraved 

 spirally (PI. VII, fig. 10). In the genitalia, the presence of a very 

 short, broad penial retractor attached to the diaphragm distinguishes 

 mendax (PI. X, fig. 1) from mogollonensis (PI. X, fig. 3), in which 

 there is none. 



This snail has a remarkable range. The lowest colonies on both 

 sides are far below the forest, especially on the west side, where it 

 was found in great numbers in the arid Gallina Canyon. The 

 examples here are rather small, diam. 16 to 17.3 mm. On the east 

 side we took it under wood and rubbish in a garden of Kingston, 

 where it was common. Most of the other localities are along the 

 crest of the range, in the humid forest zone. The type locality is 

 on the south side of Iron Creek some distance above the mouth of 

 Spring Creek, at the entrance of a ravine from the south, where 

 there has been rather extensive mine prospecting. 



A figure of the genitalia of A. mogollonensis P. & F. is given for 

 comparison, PI. X, fig. 3. 



OREOHELIX. 



Three of the four species belong to the southern group of species 

 having swollen penes. The fourth, 0. cooperi, is here at the southern 

 border of its vast range. 



Most of the specimens taken between the middle of August and 

 the middle of October contained embryos. A few collected in the 

 latter part of October contained none. 

 Oreolielix swopei n. sp. PI. IX, figs. 2, 3-36. 



The shell resembles 0. strigosa depressa. It has an ample umbilicus, 

 a low, conic spire, obtuse and rounded at the summit, and a slightly 

 angular periphery. Color fawn or vinaceous fawn, with two choco- 

 late or lighter bands in the usual positions, and finely, irregularly 

 speckled and streaked with creamy markings, partly the result of 

 wear. The surface is glossy where unworn, marked with irregular 

 growth-lines and fine wrinkles, which form sharp little folds just 

 above the suture on some of the intermediate whorls. No spiral 

 striation. The embryonic shell, of 2| flat whorls, shows growth- 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



lines and faint traces of microscopic spirals, and on its last third 

 there are usually several small spiral threads. The young stages 

 have an acutely angular periphery, which becomes bluntly angular 

 on the last whorl, which descends very little in front. The aperture 

 is strongly oblique. 



Alt. 12, diam. 21 mm. (type). 

 '' 12, " 22 " 

 " 13.2, " 20 " 



Black Range, at stations 44, 45 and 48, head of Morgan Creek; 

 42, Black Canyon, 4 miles below Reed's ranch; 50 and 51, on Dia- 

 mond Creek, about 3 miles below the summit, and again about half 

 way clown. 



Fig. .3. — Reproductive organs of Oreohelix swopei. b, the penis opened, showing 

 fleshy organs in the swollen portion, c, the penis and epiphallus stretched 

 straight. 



This snail is named in honor of Dr. S. D. Swope, of Deming, New 

 Mexico, in acknowledgment of his interest in scientific matters and 

 his kindly help in furthering our investigation. That we visited 

 the Black Range at all was due to his alluring picture of its beauties. 



In the field this shell was taken for 0. s. depressa. It was found 

 among rocks on the well-shaded slopes of ravines, usually with 

 0. cooperi and Ashmunella. The absence of spiral striation on the 

 last whorl aroused suspicion of the reference to 0. s. depressa, and 

 on closer study it was found to differ by the far smoother embryonic 

 shell, and especially by the soft anatomy, the male organs being 

 quite different in the two species. In 0. s. depressa the lower part 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



of the penis is not swollen, and its cavity contains four or five sub- 

 equal longitudinal ridges. These structures have been found con- 

 stant in a great many specimens dissected, from Utah, Colorado, 

 Arizona and New Mexico.'- In 0. swopei the lower part of the penis 

 is conspicuously swollen, its cavity containing several large, irregular, 

 fleshy processes (fig. 36), below which there are many small longitu- 

 dinal cords (fig. 3). 

 The organs measure: 



Length of penis 22 mm. 



" swollen portion of penis 8.5 " 



" of epiphallus 4.5 



" of penial retractor 7 



" of vagina 6.5 



" of spermatheca and duct 21 



Diameter of shell 21 



0. concentrata differs by its far shorter penis. 



In the specimen dissected, taken about September 15, there were 

 eight embryos (PI. IX, fig. 13), the largest 4.2 mm. diameter. 

 The base shows many smooth spiral lines and bands cutting through 

 densely crowded, crinkled radial striae. When these are worn oE it 

 appears almost smooth, the apparently strong spiral sculpture 

 shown in the figures being cuticular. 



Afew beautiful albino shells were found in one rock pile in Station 45. 

 Oreohelix metcalfei Ckll. PI. VIII, fig. 5. 



Oreohelix slrigosa metcalfei Ckll., Nautilus, XVIII, 190.5. p. 113. Pilsbrj^ 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., "190.5, p. 27S, PI. 25, figs. 44, 48, 52. 



This species was described from shells collected by Mr. O. B. 

 Metcalfe "near Kingston," the exact spot not designated. We 

 hunted one day around Kingston, but did not find it. The country 

 near the town is rather discouraging — steep stony hills with prac^ 

 tically no shade, though there is abundant limestone. Probably 

 we did not go far enough afield. We suspect that the colony was 

 either nearer the mountains or northward, probably not in the 

 immediate vicinity of the town. 



Three very old "bones" were found by one of us in Sam's Canyon, 

 Station 53, some miles south of Chloride. These occurred with 

 Holospira, like the original lot. 



It appears that the 0. metcalfei group, in Grant, Sierra and Socorro 

 Counties, comprises a series of forms largely parallel to the 0. haydeni 

 series in Utah and Colorado, but even more remarkable in its extremes 

 of form and sculpture. 



2 See these Proceedings for 1905, p. 272. PL 19, fig. 3; 1916, p. 345, PI. 19, 

 figs. 1-4, 6, 7; PI. 20, fig. 8. 




96 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



On the west slope of the Black Range there are two forms: (1) 

 in the south, 0. m. concentrica, broadly umbilicate, with low, wide 

 spiral cords on the base, and (2) further north, 0. m. radiata, with 

 strong radial sculpture, remarkably like 0. eirodi. On the eastern 

 slope we have (3), southward, 0. m. acutidiscus, broadly umbilicate, 

 with fine spiral and coarser radial sculpture, and (4) further north, 

 0. hermosensis, nearly smooth, angular only in front. Still further 

 north a few "bones" of typical metcalfei were found, acutely keeled 

 throughout and nearly smooth. Northeast of here was found 

 0. m. cuchillensis, which is so weakly angular that we at first thought 

 it a form of 0. strigosa depressa. Further west 0. pilshryi was found. 

 Further north, in Socorra County, there is 0. socorroensis, an angular, 

 roughly sculptured shell, as yet known only by perfectly bleached 

 "bones." 



The metcalfei group therefore comprises, besides the original type,, 

 forms resembling 0. haydetii, 0. eirodi and 0. strigosa depressa; each 

 being alone in its district. The distribution may be represented 

 diagrammatically thus : 



pilsbryi i^ 



cuchillensis -^ 



■^ metcalfei 



if hermosensis 



radinta ir 

 concentrica ir 



if acutidiscus 



Diagram to show localities of the races of Oreohelix metcaljei relative to one 

 another and to the crest of the Black Range from Sawyer to Diamond Peak. 

 Scale about 16 miles to an inch. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Oreohelix metcalfei concentrica n. subsp. PI. VIII, figs. 1-ld. 



The shell is much more broadly and openly miibilicate than 

 0. tnetcalfei; cartridge buff, inconspicuously mottled with gray or 

 light drab, the embryonic whorls pinkish cinnamon, and the peripheral 

 keel bordered below with a bro\\'n band. Sculpture of about five 

 extremely low spiral cords on the base, and usually traces of two or 

 three above, their intervals finely and sharply striate spirally, and 

 there are very fine, irregular striae along growth-lines, sharp where they 

 pass over the keel and spiral cords, elsewhere weak. The last whorl 

 does not descend in front. 



Alt. 9.3, diam. 21.5 mm.; 4| whorls. 



Silver Creek, above 7,500 feet, at stations 3, 4|, 7, and 11, on 

 limestone outcrops. Type No. 115,755, A. N. S. P. from Station 7, 

 above the box of Silver Creek, on the north side. 



In most specimens the intervals between the cords on the base are 

 dull brown, or when concolored the spiral striae make them appear 

 darker, giving an appearance of relief to the cords. A few individuals 

 from Station 11 (a branch ravine of Silver Creek south of Gray's 

 cabin) have the base blackish chocolate. 



Specimens with the spiral cords on the base less conspicuous and 

 the color usually darker — clouded and banded with dull walnut 

 brown in varying degree — were found at Station 20, at the Grand 

 Central Mine; Station 19, the next gulch north of that where the 

 mine is; also Station 22, the succeeding gulch north (PI. YIII, fig. Id). 

 At Station 17|, on the west side of Sawyer Peak about 500 feet below 

 the summit, similar shells were found, varying from nearly typical 

 color to broadly banded below with chocolate, the spiral cords 

 therefore inconspicuous. 



Genitalia as in 0. m. radiata. 



The embryonic shell (PI. IX, fig. 10) is very beautiful. The 

 first whorl is smooth, cuticular laminae along growth-lines then 

 appearing gradually. From these triangular processes rise, forming 

 3 or 4 spiral series above, usually 4 below a peripheral series of larger 

 processes. 



The embryos of radiata, acididiscus and hermosensis are identical 

 with those of concentrica. 



Oreohelix metcalfei radiata n- subsp. PI. VIII, figs. 2, 2a, 3-3c, 6, 6o. 



The shell is more openly umbilicate than 0. metcalfei, with irregular 

 sculpture of strong wrinkles in the direction of growth-lines, the lens 

 •showing fine spiral striae between the wrinkles of the lower surface, 

 very few on the upper surface. Faint traces of a few coarse spirals 



7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



on the base may be discerned in most examples. The last whorl 

 usually does not descend in front (but in some exceptional specimens 

 it descends). The typical color is cartridge-buff, with some cream- 

 buff clouding above, the early whorls being light pinkish cinnamon; 

 but it varies, some shells having a bister band below the periphery, 

 or this may be widened, suffusing much of the base (figs. 6, 6a), 

 with also a cinnamon line on the upper surface. In a few examples, 

 all of the base except within the umbilicus is between chocolate and 

 black, the upper surface being brownish. 



Alt. 9, d am. 19.4 mm. 



Limestone outcrops on Iron Creek, Station 16, some distance above 

 the confluence of Spring Creek and on Spring Creek, Station 15 

 (type loc). 



The Iron Creek specimens are nearly all of the pale typical color. 



The genitalia of a specimen from Station 15, the type locality, 

 were figured, sub nom. 0. metcalfei, in Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1916, 

 p. 352, PI. XXII, fig. 10. Embryonic shell (PI. IX, fig. 11) as in 

 0. m. concentrica. 

 Oreohelix metcalfei acutidiscus n. subsp. PI. VIII, figs. 4, 4a. 



Broadly umbilicate, like 0. m. concentrica, from which this race 

 differs by having stronger growth-wrinkles (though much less coarse 

 than in 0. m. radiata), and in place of the spiral cords of concentrica 

 there are slightly enlarged striae, the whole base being finely striate 

 spirally between the riblets. It is mottled and clouded profusely, 

 above and below, with walnut brown. The keel is very acute. 



Alt. 10.4, diam. 22.4 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Station 23, about 1,000 feet below the summit of Sawyer Peak, 

 east of and below the camp site on the saddle, on a small outcrop of 

 limestone. 



In another place down the mountain southeast from camp, Station 

 18, we found a colony differing by being cartridge buff, a few with a 

 band below the periphery. Both of the localities are on the opposite 

 side of the mountain from the known localities of 0. m. radiata. 

 The embryonic shells are like those of radiata and concentrica. 

 Oreohelix metcalfei hermosensis n. subsp. PI. IX, figs. 4, 4o, 46. 



The shell is solid, cartridge buff with a narrow chocolate band 

 below the periphery, and some indistinct pinkish cinnamon mottling, 

 especially above. The surface is nearly smooth, having light irregular 

 growth-lines and no spiral striae. The last whorl descends in front. 

 It is strongly angular in front of the aperture, the angle becoming 

 weak on the last half. The umbilicus about as in metcalfei. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



Alt. 12.3, diam. 21.4 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Stations 55 and 56, near Hermosa, Sierra County, New Mexico. 



This subspecies resembles 0. metcaljei in color and the smooth 

 surface, but differs by wanting the strong keel of the last whorl. 



Genitalia are substantially as in 0. m. radiata. The penis is 

 figured, fig. 4fl, and opened, fig. 46. The lower portion has several 

 very irregular and unequal fleshy ridges within, upper portion 

 papillose. Length of penis 13 mm., of its thickened lower part 5 mm. ; 

 length of epiphallus 3.5 mm.; of penial retractor 6 mm. Diameter 

 of the shell 20.5 mm. 



The embryonic shells (PI. IX, fig. 12) are exactly as in the forms 

 of metcaljei from the Black Range. In the adult shell the embryo 

 photographs abnormally dark on account of its yellow hue. 



Fig. 4. — Penis of Oreohelix metcaljei hennosensis. a, exferior; b, the same opened. 



Oreohelix metcalfei cuchillensis n. subsp. PI. IX, figs. l. la, 16. 



This form is smaller than hermosensis, and the peripheral angle 

 in front of the aperture is weaker, scarcely noticeable. Typically 

 there are very minute and superficial spiral striae, but on many 

 specimens these cannot be made out. The last whorl descends 

 little or not at all in front. There is about a half whorl less. 



Alt. 9, diam. 18.2 mm.; 4f whorls. 



Cuchillo Mountains, Sierra County, at two stations about two 

 miles apart, at the southern end of the range. 



We have hesitated between uniting this with 0. m. hermosensis 

 and giving it separate standing. The sizes intergrade in a small 

 number of specimens, cuchillensis varying from 15.4 to 20 mm. 

 diameter; yet where this is the case, the specimens are readily separa- 

 ble by other characters. Except for one specimen of 20 mm. diam., 

 none of the lot of over 200 specimens exceeds 19 mm. diameter. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



The genitalia are substantially similar to 0. m. hermosensis except 

 for the smaller size. Length of penis 7, of its internally thickened 

 lower portion 4 mm.; of epiphallus 3 mm. ; of penial retractor 6.5 mm.; 

 cliam. shell about 17.5 mm. (No. 112,917, A. N. S. P.) 



No embryos were found in a few specimens preserved in spirit, 

 taken in October. 



Oreohelix pilsbryi Ferriss. PI. VIII, figs. 7 -7c. 



Oreohelix pilsbryi Ferriss, Nautilus, XXX, January, 1917, p. 102. 



While closely related to 0. metcalfei, this form appears to be suf- 

 ficiently distinct for specific rank. It is most like 0. m. concentrica, 

 but differs by the narrow, strongly raised spiral lirse and the smaller 

 umbilicus. It is also relatively higher, resembling some forms of 

 0. haydeni from the Oquirrh Range, in Utah. There are usually 

 four spirals on the base, two on the upper surface. The embryonic 

 whorls of adults and the genitalia (figured in Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 

 1916, PI. XXII, fig. 8) are substantially as in 0. vietcalfei radiata and 

 the other forms of that species. Embryos were not found in the 

 uterus in the few specimens preserved in spirit. 



It was found only near the Oliver Mine, on Mineral Creek, about 

 6 miles from Chloride, Sierra County. Several hundred living 

 examples were obtained. See Nautilus, XXX, p. 102. 



Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.) PL IX, fig.?. .5-9. 



This region, which forms the southern border of the vast area of 

 cooperi, has a capacious form of the species. Many examples are 

 typical in coloring (figs. 7, 9), but pale shells with faint bands or none 

 are abundant, especially on Silver Creek (figs. 6, 8, 8a). Occasionally 

 throughout the range, specimens were found with very broad, almost 

 black bands (figs. 5, 5a). These color forms are to be found together, 

 throughout the forest zone of the range. Thus, figs. 5-7 (Station 9) 

 and 8, 8a (Station 4|) are from Silver Creek; fig. 9 from Holden's 

 Spring (Station 26). The extremes of elevation of the spire may 

 also be found in single colonies. The shape aiid color mutations or 

 forms are spread throughout the range, though particular color-forms 

 are often prevalent at one or another station. 



The specimens figured measure as follows: 



Figs. 5, 5a, alt. 14, diam. 20 mm. 

 Fig. 6, " 13, " 20 " 



Fig. 7, " 15.6, " 20.6" 



Figs. 8, 8a, " 16.7, " 22 " 

 Fig. 9, '' 14.3, " 20.5 



X " 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



Localities in the Black Range and environs are given below. It 

 is not confined to limestone exposures, but is quite sparsely scattered 

 on shaded hillsides throughout the forested zone of the range from 

 Saw\'er Peak northward. 



Sawyer Peak, Station 17|, west side of the north peak, near the 

 summit. 



Silver Creek, at stations 3, 4|, 6, 7, 9; Bull Top Creek, Station 13. 



Spring Creek, Station 15; 

 Iron Creek, stations 16 and 16^ 

 (Wright's cabin). Between Iron 

 Creek and Hillsboro Peak. 



Heads of Animas Canyon at 

 Holden's Spring, Station 26, 

 and at stations 29, 30, 32, 33, 

 northward. 



Near AIcKnight's cabin, Sta- 

 tion 36; stations 38, 39|, 40, 

 the last 8 miles north. 



Black Canyon region at sta- 

 tions 41, 42. 



Morgan Canyon, stations 44, 

 45, 48. 



Diamond Creek, Station 50, 

 about halfway down the moun- 

 tain on the west side. 



East of the Black Range it 

 was taken at — 



Sam's Canyon, about 6 miles 

 south of Chloride, dead only. 



San Mateo Mountains, every- 

 where on the south side, abun- 

 dant. 



Specimens from Holden's Spring (Station 26) were dissected last 

 year. See Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1916, p. 351. Two more have 

 been opened, giving the following measurements of the genitalia: 



Fig. 5. — Reproductive organs of Oreo- 

 helix cooperi from Holden's Spring, 

 Black Range, with detail of the 

 penis, opened at upper end of the 

 internally ribbed portion. 



No. 115,156. 



Silver Creek. 



Station 4|. 



Length of penis 21 mm. 



" " internallv ribbed part 11 " 



" epiphalliis 4.5 " 



" " penial retractor muscle 10 " 



Diameter of the shell 22 



No. 112,920. 

 San Mateo 

 Mountains. 



13.5 mm. 

 8 

 5 



7 






102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The lower part of the penis contains two or three fleshy ridges, 

 the upper ends of which project a Uttle into the cavity of the thin- 

 walled portion. 

 Thysanopliora ingersolli (Bid). 



Common throughout the humid forested zone, especially among 

 aspens. Taken at 16 stations, from Sawyer Peak to Black Canyon. 

 Thysanopliora hornii (Gabb). , 



Not found in the Black Range. A few were taken in the Cuchillo 



Alountains. 



UROCOPTID.^. 

 Holospira cockerelli Dall. 



Holospira cockerelli Dall, Nautilus, XI, October, 1897, p. 62. Pilsbry, Proc, 

 A. N. S. P., 1905, p. 218, PL 26, fig. 6. 



Sam's Canyon, about 4 miles south of Chloride. Cuchillo Moun- 

 tains. Big Palomas Creek, near Hermosa, in a mountain across 

 stream, above the fork, at Ocean Wave Mine; also in the next peak 

 below. Little Palomas Creek, in a limestone mountain 2 miles 

 north of Black Bob's ranch. 



The specimens from the Little Palomas are about typical in size: 



Length 12.5 mm., 13| whorls. 

 " 10.5 " 12 



The largest are from the Cuchillo Mountains on the south side 

 of the peak, where some are 16.8 mm. long, with 16| whorls. Speci- 

 mens from the other localities are intermediate in size. All we have 

 opened have a single short lamella low on the axis in the penult 

 whorl. 



The type was found in drift debris of the Rio Grande. Subse- 

 quently Mr. Metcalfe found one "near Kingston" — probably 

 northward near the southern localities given above. 



We did not find Holospira regis Pils. and Ckll., which was collected 

 by Mr. Metcalfe somewhere in the Kingston district. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Pyramidula cronkhitei (Xewc). 



Found everywhere (18 stations) throughout the wooded zone. 

 Also in the Middle Percha drift below Kingston, Mineral Creek near 

 Chloride, and Little Palomas Creek; probably washed down from 

 above. 



Helicodiscus arizonensis P. and F. 



Rather sparingly found at many stations throughout the Black 

 Range, from the summit to the level of Kingston. Also San Mateo 

 and Cuchillo Mountains. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 103 



VITRINID^. 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



From the summit of the ascent north of Wright's cabin northward 

 to Black Canyon; abundant, especially near McKnight's cabin, on 

 bits of wood, etc. Not seen south of Iron Creek. 



ZONITID^. 

 Polita indentata umbilicata (Ckll.)- 



Black Range on Silver Creek; head of Iron Creek, Station 16^; 

 Animas Creek above the box. Station 25; Bear Wallow, Reed's ranch. 

 Station 43. It is rare at the higher levels. In dryer, lower country 

 it was taken at Station 1 , Gallina Creek, on Little and Big Palomas 

 Creeks, near Chloride, and in the Cuchillo and San Mateo Mountains. 



Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Found throughout the Black Range; taken at 17 stations. 



Zonitoides minuscula alaohuana (Dall). 



Iron Creek, stations 16, 16|; Holden's Spring; drift of Percha 

 below King.ston; Oliver Mine, near Chloride. 

 Striatura milium meridionalis P. and F. 



Station 28, south side of Hillsboro Peak; Station 26, Holden's 

 Spring. 



Euconulus fulvus (Drap.). 



Everywhere along the crest, from Sawyer Peak to Black Canyon. 

 Also in drift at Station 1, Gallina Creek, and below Kingston; Oliver 

 Mine near Chloride; San Mateo Mountains, 



LIMACIDJE. 

 Agriolimax campestris (Binn.). 



Taken at 6 stations in the wooded zone of the Black Range. 



PUPILLID^. 

 Pupilla blandi pithodes n. subsp. 



The shell is short, cylindric with rounded ends, chestnut brown, 

 slightly shining. Whorls somewhat convex, the last slowly ascending 

 a little in front, somewhat flattened and tapering to the rather 

 narrow base, noticeably contracted behind the lip, having a quite 

 low (or sometimes rather strong) crest, of the same color" as the rest 

 of the shell, behind the contraction. Parietal lamella deeply placed, 

 about one-third of a whorl long. Lower palatal plica rather long. 

 Columellar lamella well developed, short. 



Length 3.2, diam. 1.8 mm. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Black Range, abundant in the forested zone, chiefly among aspens. 

 Type locaUty, Station 39, around the cattle-trap and lake between 

 McKnight's and Mimbres forester stations. 



It was taken at stations 5, 9, 16^ 17, 26, 28, 30, 31, 33, 34^ 37, 

 39, 42 and 47, well scattered over the ridge and upper slopes from 

 Sawyer Peak to Black Canyon. Single bleached shells were taken 

 in the drift debris of Gallina Creek at Station 1, and in the debris of 

 Middle Percha Creek below Kingston. These were doubtless 

 carried down from the forest zone by freshets. 



This is relatively wider and shorter than P. blandi, with a far less 

 developed crest behind the lip. Typical P. blandi is a decidedly 

 smaller shell. 



Pupoides marginatus (Say). 



A bleached shell was found in drift of the Middle Percha Creek 

 below Kingston, therefore in the foothills rather than the Black 

 Range itself. 



Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella (Pils.). 



Middle Percha Creek, below Kingston. Not found in the moun- 

 tains. 

 Gastrocopta pilsbryana (Sterki). 



Not uncommon on top. It was taken at 8 stations between Silver 

 Creek and McKnight's ranger cabin. Also on Mineral Creek, 

 near the Oliver Mine, Station 52, and in the Cuchillo Mountains. 



Gastrocopta ashmuni (Sterki). 



Stations 16, Iron Creek, and 54, Little Palomas Creek, a single shell 

 at each. The former station, probably above 7,500 feet, is unex- 

 pected, and above its usual zone in this part of New Mexico. 



Gastrocopta quadridens Pils. 



Stations 16i, Iron Creek near Wright's cabin, and 28, south side 

 of Hillsboro Peak. 



Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis P and V. 



Taken at 10 stations along the range, above 7,500 feet, and doubt- 

 less to be found in the forest zone wherever minutiae are looked for, 

 especially among aspens. 



Vertigo modesta n. subsp. 



This new subspecies will be described in the next paper of this 

 series. It was taken in the Black Range at stations 1, 9, 16^, 24. 

 26, 28, 30, 34, 39, 47. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



VALLONIID^. 

 Vallonia perspectiva Sterki. 



• Silver Creek, Station 9, elevation 8,000 feet, in the forest zone, 

 and above its usual range. Much lower down it was taken at Station 

 42, Black Canyon, about 4 miles below the crest; in drift of the 

 Middle Percha below Kingston; Station 54, on Little Palomas Creek, 

 and in the Cuchillo Mountains. 

 Vallonia cyclophorella Ckll. 



On the crest at stations 16^, 39, and 47. 



FERUSSACID^. 

 Cochlicopa lubrica (Mull.). 



Found sparingly but generally spread throughout the Black 

 Range, from Silver Creek to Black Canyon; also on lower levels at 

 Station 1, Kingston, Little Palomas Creek, Cuchillo and San Mateo 

 ^Mountains. 



SUCOINEID^. 

 Succinea avara Say. 



Station 1, Gallina Canyon; Middle Percha below Kingston. Not 

 in the forest zone. 



PHYSID^. 



Physa sp. undet. 



^Middle Percha Creek, Kingston; Animas River near junction of 

 Cherry Creek; both in the eastern foothills of the Black Range. 



Collecting Stations in the Black Range. 



Many of the stations are plotted on the maps, pp. 84 and 85; most of the others 

 may be located by then* relation to those plotted. 



1. ^Middle branch of Gallina Creek about 2 miles above Pryor's upper cabin. 



2. Same, i miles above cabin, at the fork. 



3. 4. Limestone ledges on north and south sides of Silver Creek, a few hundred 



yards above* Mitchell Gray's cabin (7,500 feet). 

 4|. Silver Creek just below the "box," where the trail makes a detour. 



5. Silver Creek above the box, on north side, near a deserted cabin. 



6. Silver Creek, north side, a short distance above Station 5. 



7. Silver Creek, north side, above the preceding. 



8. Saddle above the head of Silver Creek. 



9. South side of the "box" of Silver Creek. 



10. Gulch tributary to Silver Creek on north side, near Strohm's "mine." 



11, 12. Gulch tributary to Silver Creek, about a mile south of Gray's cabin, 



and not far from the same elevation. 

 12 J. About a half mile above Spade's cabin, on Little Gallina Creek. 

 13. Branch of the head of Spring Creek (Bull Top Creek ?). 



15. Outcrop of limestone on east side of Spring Creek, where a small ravine enters 



from the east. 



16. Iron Creek, where a ravine with numerous prospect holes enters from the 



south, between confluence of Spring Creek and Wright's cabin. 

 16 j. Wright's cabin, near the head of Iron Creek. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March,, 



17. Western side of the north summit of Sawyer Peak about 500 feet below the 



summit . 

 17J. Same vicinity. 3-500 feet below summit. 



18. Northeastern flank of Sawyer Peak, a half mile below camp on saddle. * 



19. Ravine next up the trail to Sawyer Peak from Grand Central Mine. 



20. Grand Central Mine, on the mine side of the ravine. 



21. About 2 miles east of the trail from Sawyer Peak to Grand Central Mine, 



and not much higher than the mine. 



22. Ravine north of Station 19. 



23. A limestone ledge, 20 minutes' walk down the mountain east from the camp 



on the saddle of Sawyer Peak. 

 23 J. Hillside south of Wright's cabin near head of Iron Creek. 



24. Top of the steep trail north of Wright's cabin. 



25. Just above the box of Holden Prong of Animas Canyon, several miles below 



Holden's Spring. 



26. Hillside southward above Holden's Spring. 



27. A branch of Noonday Canyon, heading opposite Holden Spring, perhaps 



2 miles down. 



28. South side of Hillsboro Peak, among aspens. 



29. Branch of Animas Canyon 1 mile west of Animas ranger cabin. 



30. Branch of McKnight Canyon, running westward, about 31 miles west of 



Animas cabin and 2 miles from the summit trail. 



31. Drift debris of Middle Percha Creek, near Kingston. 



32. Garden of ]\Ir. Stephen Reay, west end of Kingston. 



33. Along summit trail, 2 or 3 miles north of Animas ranger cabin. 



34. About half way between Animas and McKnight's ranger cabins, in aspens 



along the summit trail. 



35. Rocky hillside about 2 miles north of McKnight's cabin, along the trail. 



36. Rocky slide facing south about a mile north of McKnight's cabin. 



37. Head of McKnight's Canyon. 



38. McKnight's Canyon below the "box." 



39. Around lake and cattle-trap, on the .shoulder of Mimbres Peak. 



40. Eight miles north of McKnight's cabin, on trail. 



41. About I5 miles south of Black Canyon ranger station. 



42. Black Canyon about 3 to 4 miles below Reed's ranch. 



43. Bear Wallow, Reed's ranch, among aspens. 



44. Head of Morgan Creek, near the Hermoso trail. Stations 45, 47 and 48 



are in the same vicinity. 



45. North and west sides of the head of Morgan Creek. 



46. Rock slides south of Reed's ranch. 



47. Trail half a mile south of Reed's ranch. 



48. Morgan Creek, \ mile below Station 44. 



49. Black Canyon, 1 mile above Diamond Bar Ranch. 



50. Diamond Creek, about 4 miles below crest of range. 



51. Diamond Creek, about 3 miles below crest of range. 



52. Mineral Creek at Oliver Mine, 4 miles above Chloride. 



53. Sam's Canvon, 4 miles south of Chloride. 



54. Limestone Mountain on Little Palomas Creek, 2 miles north of Bob's ranch. 



55. First mountain across creek above forks at Ocean Wave Mine, Big Palomas 



Creek near Hermosa. 



56. Next peak below 55. 



57. Reservoir on the Animas near mouth of Cave Creek, ranch of Rue Panka. 



58. Rock slides on south side of Cave Creek between its mouth and the trail to 



Hillsboro. 



Cuchillo Range. Three stations at the south end of this small range, 6 miles 



east of Chloride. 

 San Mateo Range, in the south end, 6 miles from Monticello. Several rock 



slides, in the vicinity of Chippy Creek and on the .southern slope, were 



investigated. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Explanation of Plates VII, VIII, IX, X. 



Plate VII. — Figs. 1, la, 16. — Ashmunella tetrodon fragilis n. .subsp. Type. Sta- 

 tion 58. No. 115,753. 

 Figs. 2, 2a, 26. — Ashmunella tetrodon animorum n. sub.sp. Type. Station 



26. No. 115,747. 

 Figs. 3, 3a, 36. — Ashmunella cockerelli n. .sp. Type. Station 19. No. 



115,7-48. 

 Fig. 4. — Depressed specimen of the same lot. 

 Fig. 5. — Ashmunella cockerelli argenlicola n. subsp. Type. Station 4'.. 



No. 115,749. 

 Figs. 6, 6a, 66. — Ashmunella mendax n. sp. Type. Station 16. Xo. 



115,754. 

 Figs. 7, 7a. — Ashmunella cockerelli peroblusa n. sub.-;p. Type. Station 21. 



No. 115,750. 

 Fig. 8. — Ashmunella binneyi n. sp. Type. Station SV. Xo. 115,751. 

 Fig. 9. — Ashmunella cockerelli n. sp. Enlarged view of type. 

 Fig. 10. — Ashmunella mogollonensis Pils. Enlarged view of specimen 



from the Mogollon Range. 



Plate VIII. — Figs. 1-lc. — Oreohelix melcalfei concentrica n. subsp. Type. Sta- 

 tion 7. No. 115,755. Id, dark specimen of same from Station 22. 



Figs. 2, 2a. — Oreohelix metcalfei radiata n. subsp. Station 15. 



Figs. 3-3c. — Oreohelix metcalfei radiata n. subsp. Type. Station 15. 

 No. 112,899. 



Figs. 4, 4o. — Oreohelix metcalfei acutidiscus n. subsp. Type. Station 23. 

 No. 115,757. 



Fig. 5. — Oreohelix metcalfei Ckll. Type. No. 10,941. 



Figs. 6, 6a. — Oreohelix metcalfei radiata n. subsp. Station 16. 



Figs. 7-7c. — Oreohelix pilshryi Ferriss. Type. Station 52. X'^o. 112,918a. 



Plate IX. — Figs. 1-16. — Oreohelix metcalfei cuchillensis n. subsp. Type. No. 

 115,760. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix swopei n. sp. Elevated example from Station 45. 

 Figs. 3-36. — Oreohelix swopei n. sp. Type. Station 45. Xo. 112,896. 

 Figs. 4-46. — Oreohelix metcalfei hermosensis n. .subsp. Tj'pe. Xo. 115,759. 

 Figs. 5, 5a, 6, 7.— Oreohelix cooperi fW. G. B.). Station 9. No. 115,280. 

 Figs. 8, 8a. — Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.). Station 4L Xo. 115,156. 

 Fig. 9.— Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.). Station 26. Xo. 115,_306._ 

 Fig. 10. — Oreohelix metcalfei concentrica. Embryos. Xo. 115,315. 

 Fig. 11. — Oreohelix metcalfei radiata. Embryos. X'o. 115,319. 

 Fig. 12. — Oreohelix metcalfei hermosensis. Embryos. Xo. 112,922. 

 Fig. 13. — Oreohelix swopei. Embryos. Station 41. 



Plate X. — Fig. 1. — Ashmunella mendax n. sp. Station 16. 

 Fig. 2. — Ashmunella cockerelli n. sp. Station 20. 

 Fig. 3. — Ashmunella mogollonensis P. and F. 

 Fig. 4. — Ashmunella cockerelli peroblusa n. subsp. Station 21. 

 Fig. 5. — Ashnuuiella binneyi n. sp. Station 7. 

 Fig. 6. — Ashmunella tetrodon P. and F. San Mateo Mountains. Xo. 112,921. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



NOTES ON FISHES FROM NEW JERSEY, PENNSYLVANIA, AND MARYLAND. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Within the past two years some local fishes have been 

 obtained for the collections of the Academy. A number have 

 recently been studied, and as there are large series of specimens 

 in many cases, representing the fish-faunas of a number of streams 

 heretofore not explored, a resume is here given. Several species 

 new to the region may also be noted, besides others rare or little 

 known. Among those to whom I am indebted for assistance and 

 many favors are Messrs. C. S. Abbott, Jr., and R. M. Abbott, Miss 

 K. Bell, Messrs. H. H. Burton, Edwin Fowler, W. J. Fox, H. W. 

 Hand, Philip Laurent, G. H. Lings, H. L. Mather, E. S. and W. I. 

 Mattern, W. E. Meehan, Dr. F. Pennell, Mr, H. E. Thompson and 

 Dr. R. O. Van Deusen. 



New Jersey. 



During the past season collections were made in late April in the 

 streams and bay-shore region of Cumberland County (Bivalve, 

 Cedarville, Sheppard's Mill and Fortescue): July 31, the Assanpink 

 Creek in Mercer County (Quaker Bridge); August 8, streams in 

 Warren County (Musconetcong River and Hihickihocki Creek near 

 Stewartsville, and the Pohatcong Creek near Washington and Port 

 Colden); August 3, Hunterdon County (Wickecheoke Creek at 

 Stockton and the Lockatong Creek below Raven Rock), and on 

 September 27, near Frenchtown (Harihokake, Nishisakawick and 

 Copper Creeks). I have also examined the records of material 

 collected and such specimens as were brought to the Philadelphia 

 Aquarium during the past summer from Atlantic City and Somers 

 Point. 



Carcharias taurus Rafinesque. 



One 9 feet long at Atlantic City and several more about the same 

 length from off shore brought to Somers Point in September. 



Alopias vulpinus (Bonnaterre). 



Mr. J. W. Tatum submitted a photograph of an adult about 

 15 feet long taken at Stone Harbor, in June, 1902. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Isurus tigris (At wood). 



An example about 8 feet long, captured at Seaside Heights, 

 August 26, of which I have a photograph, appears to be this species. 

 Another about 9 feet long, captured off Atlantic City in August and 

 brought to Somers Point, is probably identical. These are the only 

 recent records known to me. 



Mustelus mustelus (LinnI). 



Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Eulamia milberti (Muller and Henle). 



One adult at Seaside Heights during midsummer and examples 

 in Delaware Bay at Fishing Creek; one example 8 feet long, caught 

 September 17, examined. 

 Sphyrna zygaena (Linn6). 



Common off Atlantic City, all small. 



Squalus acanthias Linne. 



Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Raja eglanteria Lac6pSde. 



Atlantic City. 



Dasyatis say (Le Sueur). 



Sea Isle City on June 10. 



Myliobatis freminvillii Le Sueur. 



Two at Somers Point in September. 



Rhinoptera bonasus Mitchill. 



On September 24 an adult, estimated at 40 pounds in weight, caught 

 in the surf at Sea Isle City on a hook baited with clam. Mr. W. J. 

 Fox has given me its caudal spine. In the same month three other 

 examples were taken at Somers Point, weighing from 2.5 to .50 

 pounds. 

 Amiatus calvus (Linn6). 



Mr. W. H. Strang reports a male taken in Cresson Lake, Camden 

 County, on July 5. This is the first record of this introduced species 

 brought to my attention. 



Pomolobus pseudobarengus (Wilson). 



Bay side. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 



Bivalve and Bayside. About 70 pounds, reported taken off Sea 

 Isle City in May. 



Synodus foetens (Linn6). 



One secured in Great Egg Harbor Bay at Ocean City on September 

 14, and in the same month four more at Somers Point. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



Bivalve and near Port Golden. 



Schilbeodes insignis (Richardson). 



Harihokake Creek, 



Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



A single example was secured with the above in Harihokake 

 Creek. This is of interest as the first record since its only previous 

 capture by the late Prof. A. C. Apgar and Dr. C. C. Abbott in 1874. i 

 They likewise obtained but a single example in the Delaware and 

 Raritan Canal in Trenton. As the stream in which my example 

 was taken is very clear and falls with moderate descent over red 

 shale rocks, it was possible to examine many fishes as they swam 

 about. Probably a dozen other examples were seen in the same 

 locality. They usually kept together and did not appear to scatter 

 much or associate with the dace or suckers. 



Semotilus buUaris (Rafinesque). 

 Stockton, Raven Rock, Musconetcong and Hihickihocki Creeks. 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 

 Stockton, near Port Colden and Harihokake Creek. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Washington and Copper Creek. 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard).. 

 Stockton and Raven Rock. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Stockton, Raven Rock, Musconetcong Creek, Hihickihocki Creek, 

 Port Colden, Harihokake, Nishisakawick and Copper Creeks. 



Notropis chalybaeus (Cope). 

 Quaker Bridge. 



Rhinichthys cataractae (\alenciennes). 



Stockton, Raven Rock, Harihokake and Nishisakawick Creeks. 



Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Stockton, Raven Rock, Musconetcong Creek, Port Colden, 

 Hihickihocki, Harihokake, Nishisakawick and Copper Creeks. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 

 Stockton. 



1 Amer. Nat., VIII, 1874, p. 337. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Catostomus commersonnii (Lac6pede). 



Stockton, Raven Rock, Musconetcong Creek, Hihickihocki Creek, 

 Washington, Port Colden, Harihokake, Nishisakawick and Copper 

 Creeks. 



Anguilla rostrata Le Sueur. 



Bivalve, Sheppard's Mill, Fortescue, Stockton, Raven Rock, 

 Harihokake Creek, Somers Point and Atlantic City. 

 Leptooephalus conger (Linnei. 



Two at Atlantic City in October. 

 Umbra pygmaea (De Kay). 



Cedarville and Sheppard's Mill. "Slv. P. Laurent also secured it 

 at Clementon on July 1, 1914. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). 

 Copper Creek. 



Esox reticulatUS Le Sueur. 



Sheppard's Mill. 

 Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Somers Point. 

 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Bivalve, Fortescue and Somers Point. 



Fundulus diaphanus (U' Sueur). 



Bivalve and Washington. 



Fundulus luciae (Baird). 



Bivalve and Fortescue. 



Lucania parva (Baird). 



Bivalve and Fortescue. 

 Cyprinodon variegatus Lac^pede. 



Fortescue. 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). 

 Somers Point. 



Menidia beryllina (Cope). 

 Fortescue. 



Mugil cephalus Linne. 



This and the next from Somers Point. 



Mugil curema Valenciennes. 

 Oasterosteus aculeatus Linn6. 

 Fortescue. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Thunnus thynnus (Linne). 



An adult taken off Seaside Heights, and another secured in Septem- 

 ber thirty miles off Anglesea was 6 feet 7 inches in length. 

 Sarda sarda (Bloch). 



Few at Atlantic City. 

 Trachinotus carolinus (Linne). 



One weighing about two pounds, at Atlantic City in September. 

 Poronotus triacanthus (Peck). 



Plentiful at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Acantharchus pomotis (Baird). 



- Several fine examples from Elmer, some ciuite mottled with darker. 

 Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Sheppard s Mill. 

 Mesogonistius chsetodon (Baird). 



Port Elizabeth, in October. 

 Lepomis auritus (Linne). 



Stockton, Raven Rock, Harihokake and Nishisakawick Creeks. 

 Pomotis gibbosus (Linn6). 



Cedarville, Washington and near Port Colden. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. 



Musconetcong Creek. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Quaker Bridge, Stockton, Raven Rock, Musconetcong and 

 Hihickihocki Creeks, Washington, near Port Colden, Harihokake, 

 Nishisakawick and Copper Creeks. 

 Boleichtbys fusiformis (Girard). 



Elmer. 

 Roccus lineatus (Bloch). 



Bayside, Atlantic City and Somers Point. These examples 

 2 to 10 pounds in weight. 

 Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Scarce at Atlantic City. 



Centropristis striatus (Linne). 



Abundant at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 

 Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linn6). 



Sea Isle City and Atlantic City. 

 Stenotomus chrysops (Linn6). 



Common at Atlantic Citv and Somers Point. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). 



Less abundant than usual at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Cynoscion nebulosus (Cuvier). 



Four reported from Somers Point in September. 



Bairdiella chrysura (LacgpMe). 



Frequent at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Leiostomus xanthurus Lac6p6de. 



Abundant with the last. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linn6). 



Bayside. Very abundant and of large size at Somers Point. 

 Atlantic City. 



Sciaenops ocellatus (Linne). 



Large example from Ocean City examined, and abundant up to 

 40 pounds weight at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). 



Very abundant at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Fogonias cromis (Linn6). 



Adult examined taken at Ocean City in September. Abundant 

 at Somers Point and Atlantic Cit}' to 40 pounds weight. 



Tautoga onitis (Linn6). 



Examples 1 to 2 pounds plentiful at Atlantic City and Somers 

 Point. 



Chaetodipterus faber (Broussonet). 



Six examples from 5 to 7 pounds taken at Atlantic City, where 

 scarce. 



Balistes carolinensis Gmelin. 



About a dozen at Atlantic City in July and August. 



Alutera punctata Agassiz. 



A fine example, 290 mm. long, was caught in a crab net at Corson's 

 Inlet, on September 9, by Mr. R. C. Williams, Jr., who very kindly 

 presented it to the Academy. Mr. Williams informs me that the 

 fish was not active, swimming Avith its body slightly inclined upwards 

 in about six feet of water in the shadow of the boat. Its color when 

 fresh was gray-mauve generally, flanks and lower side of head with 

 large areas of slightly silvery. Back above, between dorsal spine 

 and dorsal fin, and head above eye, with smaii gilded-gamboge spots, 

 each about half size of pupil, well and eveniy spaced. Obscure, dull 

 or very pale bluish spots appear on lower surface, flanks and hind 

 portion of trunk. The spots in life more brimant or conspicuous. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Iris pearl-white, with gray tint. Lips neutral dusky. Spinous 

 dorsal bright orange, soft dorsal and anal rays pale brownish, mem- 

 branes transparent. Caudal black, with several dull orange length- 

 wise streaks. Caudal rays tinted basally with dull orange. Pectoral 

 transparent. 



This very interesting fish ranges from the tropical Atlantic in 

 Brazil and the West Indies north to North Carolina. No previous 

 record has ever been given of its occurrence so far to the northward 

 as New Jersey. 



Lagocephalus laevigatus (Limi6). 



Adult in Barnegat Bay during the summer, and another example, 

 about 6 inches long, taken at Atlantic City in August. 



Spheroides maculatus (Schneider). 



Abundant at 8omers Point and Atlantic City. 

 Diodon hystrix Linne. 



A dried skin was found in the collection labelled Atlantic City, 

 September 22, 1860, obtained from G. C. Roney. As no fresh 

 specimen has ever come to my notice, the record above is offered for 

 what it may be worth. It is 125 mm. in length. The species is 

 known to range from the tropical Atlantic and Florida to New Eng- 

 land, but its presence in New Jersey has not previously been definitely 

 noted. 



It appears reasonably certain that Diodon pilosus Mitchill is 

 simply the young of the present species, and therefore Trichodiodon 

 Bleeker simply a synonym of Diodon. I have examined similar 

 young specimens, evidently in the Trichodiodon stage, with the 

 flexible hair-like bristles, and conclude they are undeveloped. Among 

 many large examples of Diodon, none were found with other than 

 long, stiff, rigid and strong spines. 

 Chilomycterus schoepfi (Walbaum). 



Associated with the preceding specimen of Diodon hystrix is one 

 of the present species, with same data. The label further states 

 "found on the sea-l)each in large numbers." 



Wildwood (Jesse Donaldson in October), Cape May (Edward 

 Wilson on October 20), and common at Somers Point and Atlantic 

 City. 



I have re-examined the specimens of Lyosphcera. globosa Evermann 

 and Kendall, from Anglesea and Florida, and feel convinced they 

 are simply the young of the present species. No characters of 

 distinction other than those due to change with growth are apparent 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



to me. It seems that the soft or papery plates of Lyosphcera are 

 simply the early stages of the short, blunt, rigid spines of the adult 

 Chilomyderus. For these reasons Lyosph(era globom may be merged 

 in the synonymy of the present species. 



Cottus gracilis Heckel. 



Musconetcong Creek. 

 Prionotus evolans strigatus (Cuvier). 



Abundant at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Leptecheneis neucrates (Linn6). 



One at Somers Point and two at Atlantic City. 



Lophopsetta maculata (Mitchill). 



Atlantic City and Somers Point; also next species. 

 Paralichthys dentatus d.inne). 

 Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Walbaum). 



Bayside. 



Achirus fasciatus Lacepeclo. 



Atlantic City and Somers Point. 

 Astroscopus guttatus Abbott. 



One at Cape May on May 2. 



Opsanus tau (Linne). 



Abundant at Atlantic City and Somers Point. 



Lophius piscatorius Linne. 



One at Stone Harbor on June 1. 



Pennsylvania. 



In the drainage area of the DelaAvare a number of collections were 

 made chiefly from points reached by automobile within a thirty-mile 

 radius of Allentown, by Messrs. E. S. and W. I. Mattern, during 

 August, September and October. Several thousand specimens w^ere 

 collected and all desiderata forwarded to the Academy. They were 

 from Carbon County (Lizard Creek), Lehigh County (Jordan Creek 

 throughout its entire basin, Saucon Creek near Lanark, Little 

 Lehigh River and Trout Run at Allentown, Indian Creek in the 

 Hosensack drainage near Corning, Coplay Creek, Fell Creek, Lehigh 

 River south of Rittersville and Ontelanj*^ Creek near New Tripoli, 

 the last a tributary of the Schuylkill), Montgomery Count}' (Swamp 

 Creek, Skippack Creek and Souderton, all in the Perkiomen drainage), 

 and Northampton County (Martin's Creek near Bangor). Con- 

 cerning most interesting conditions in the Jordan, Mr. E. S. Mattern 

 writes : 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maa>cl:i, 



''We mentioned that the Jordan dries up during the summer. We 

 found it dry September 2 in the afternoon, with the exception of 

 three or four pools. Most of the pools had fish in them. One in 

 particular, about ten feet long by three feet wide and its depth but 

 a few inches, was full of fish. In fact, it was filled so that the backs 

 of the catfish projected from the water. We lifted about fifty pounds 

 of fish out of this hole and transplanted them to a larger body of 

 water, taking all we thought necessary. It may be of interest to 

 state that this was the farthest up stream we took or saw trout- 

 perch. Having forgotten the camera, we concluded to return next 

 day and take photographs of the pool and some of the fish in the net- 

 Imagine our surprise when visiting the place the next morning to 

 find the bed of the stream covered with three to five feet depth of 

 water. We secured photographs further down stream, showing 

 some of the holes in the river bottom, through which the water 

 evidently disappears. Previous to arriving at this place we caught 

 some long-nosed dace, taken in swift water below a large spring. 

 When we say large spring we mean one that discharges thousands of 

 gallons of water per minute. 



"On September 22 we collected more trout -perch in the Jordan 

 at the original station, then went up stream to see if any more pools 

 formed. In the pool or depression where we took so many fish 

 during the last visit, the water evidently had just left, for some 

 catfish and killifish were still alive. Raccoons or minks had eaten 

 most of the larger fish, as fish heads and tails were still strewn about. 

 Another depression, at higher level, was still filled w4th water. Al- 

 together it is a remarkable stream, at one place dry, at another the 

 water runs eighteen inches deep, and so swift we could hardly keep 

 on our feet while crossing. We fished Lyon Valley also in the Jordan 

 and caught several fishes. It is about six miles up stream from the 

 first station at Helfrich's Springs." 



Other collections were made by the writer during the past season, 

 with the assistance of several gentlemen mentioned above, in Berks 

 County (Hay Creek and its tributary, as Beaver Creek at White Bear, 

 and tributaries at Geigertow^n and Cold Run, also tributary of the 

 Perkiomen at Hereford, and the Perkiomen at Pennsburg), Lehigh 

 County (tributary of the Little Lehigh River at Emaus, North 

 Branch of the Saucon Creek at Vera Cruz, Saucon Creek and tribu- 

 tary near Lanark, and Hosensack Creek at Hosensack). 



In the Susquehanna River basin during the past season collections 

 were made in August in Berks County (Conestoga Creek at Joanna 

 and tributary of Conestoga near Joanna Heights), and in Cumber- 

 land County in September, 1914 (Simmon's Run and its North 

 Branch, Conodoguinet Creek and tributary from Lamb's Gap), 

 and also Perry County (Fox Hollow, Fishing Creek, Cove Creek, and 

 Susquehanna River at Wister Island). In 1914 Dr. Witmer Stone 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



secured a small collection in Sullivan County (Loyalsock Creek at 

 Shady Nook). August 4, 1916, Dr. Pennell and the writer visited 

 Chester County (East Branch of Big Elk Creek near Elk View, 

 West Branch of Big Elk Creek, and Little Elk Creek near Hickory 

 Hill). 



Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill). 



Trout Run and Cold Run. 

 Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



Pennsburg, Hosensack, Jordan Creek near Helfrich's Springs, 

 Indian and Swamp Creeks. 



Schilbeodes gyrinus (Mitchill). 



Saucon Creek and Lanark. 



Schilbeodes insignis (Richardson). 



New Tripoli, Lanark, Skippack Creek, Martin's Creek and Elk 

 View. 



Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



Souderton, Swamp Creek, and Lehigh River south of Rittersville. 



Semotilus bullaris (Rafinesque). 



Jordan Creek near Helfrich's Springs and Lyon Valley, Indian 

 Creek, New Tripoli, Lizard Creek and Lehigh River. 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



New Tripoli, vSwamp Creek, Vera Cruz, Lanark, Jordan Creek, 

 Lehigh River, Coplay, Fell, Lizard and Indian Creeks, Haj' and 

 Beaver Creeks near White Bear with tributary above, Fishing Creek 

 tributary near Miller's Gap, Keystone and above in Fishing Creek, 

 Cove Creek, Wister Island, Simmon's Run and North Branch, 

 tributary Conodoguinet near Lamb's Gap and below Simon's Run, 

 Joanna, Joanna Heights, and Shady Nook. 



Leuciscus vandoisulus \alenciennes. 



West Branch of Big Elk Creek and Little Elk Creek. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Pennsburg, Hosensack, Lanark, Jordan Creek, Souderton, Lehigh 

 River, Skippack, Indian and Swamp Creeks, Joanna. 



Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



Lanark, Lehigh River, Souderton and Bangor. 



Kotropis procne (Cope). 



Swamp Creek, Elk View, West Branch of Big Elk and Little Elk 

 Creeks, Wister Island. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard). 



Jordan Creek, Little Lehigh, Souderton, New Tripoli, Swamp 

 Creek. 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Jordan Creek, Lehigh River, Lizard Creek, Souderton, New 

 Tripoli, Swamp Creek, Elk View, Cove Creek and Wister Island. 

 Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Swamp Creek, Hosensack, Lanark, Indian Creek, Little Lehigh 

 River, Jordan, Coplay, Fell and Lizard Creeks, Lehigh River, Sou- 

 derton, West Branch Big Elk and Little Elk Creeks, Elk View, 

 Shady Nook, tributary of Conodoguinet near Lamb's Gap, Cove 

 Creek, Wister Island, Keystone and Fishing Creek. 



Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). 



Wister Island and Souderton. At the latter locality Messrs. 

 Mattern secured two adult examples, one showing the extreme 

 development of small predorsal scales. These scales number about 

 30, several more than in any count I have made of dozens of adult 

 examples from various streams in the Middle States. This variant 

 is still more remarkable, as the predorsal scales are more or less 

 uniformly small. In several adult examples small scales anteriorly 

 in the predorsal region may be noticed, though no example has yet 

 been seen with the appearance of the Souderton specimen. 



Notropis chalybaeus (Cope). 



Abundant at Bangor. This is the first record for Northampton 

 County, and as far up the Delaware basin as it is known to occur. 



Rhinichthys cataractae (Valenciennes). 



Lizard and Indian Creeks, Hereford, Lanark, Helfrich's Springs, 

 Jordan Creek, Elk View, W^est Branch of Big Elk and Little Elk 

 Creeks. Many specimens from the Jordan, Indian and Durham 

 Creeks are interesting, as being in brilliant spawning dress. All such 

 were secured in the autumn, and this indicates an exceptionally pro- 

 tracted spawning season. 

 Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



New Tripoli, Sw^amp and Skippaek Creeks, Souderton, Lizard, 

 Coplay, Fell, Jordan and Indian Creeks, Lehigh River, Emaus, 

 Vera Cruz, Hereford, Hosensack, Lanark, Little Lehigh River, 

 Elk View, Little Elk and West Branch Big Elk Creeks, Shady Nook, 

 White Bear and tributary above, Geigertown, Cold Run, Joanna 

 Heights and Joanna, Fox Hollow, tributary of Fishing Creek near 

 Miller's Gap, Cove Creek, Keystone and Fishing Creek above, 




1917.] NATURAL SCIl^NCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Wister Island, Simmon's Run and North Branch, tributary of 

 Conodoguinet near Lamb's Gap and below Simmon's Run. A 

 number of males are in brilliant color, like those from Indian Creek 

 in late fall. 

 Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). 



Cove Creek, Wister Island and Elk View. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 



Same localities as preceding, also West Branch, Big Elk Creek, 

 Little Elk Creek, Joanna and Souderton. 



Cyprinus oarpio Linne. 



Silver Spring in Cumberland County. 

 Catostomus commersonnii (Lac^pede). 



Bangor. Swamp Creek, New Tripoli, Souderton, Lizard Creek, 

 Lehigh River, Fell, Coplay and Jordan Creeks, Vera Cruz, Hereford, 

 Pennsburg, Hosensack, Lanark, Helfrich's Springs, Indian Creek, 

 Trout Run, Little Lehigh, tributary of Conodoguinet near Lamb's 

 Gap, Cove Creek, Wister Island and Fishing Creek. 

 Catostomus nigricans le Sueur. 



Wister Island, Elk View and Lanark. 

 Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). 



Saucon Creek and tributary near Lanark, Jordan and Indian 

 Creeks, New Tripoli, Swamp Creek, Bangor and Shady Nook. 



Anguilla rostrata I>e Sueur. 



Pennsburg and Hosensack. 

 Esox americanus (Cimelin). 



Pennsburg, Jordan and Swamp Creeks, NeAV Tripoli and Bangor. 



Esox reticulatUS I.e Sueur. 



Lizard Creek. 

 Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur. 



Swamp Creek, Souderton, New Tripoli, Coplay Creek, Lehigh 

 River, Hereford, Jordan and Indian Creeks. 

 Percopsis omiscomaycus (Walbaum;. 



This interesting fish was first ascribed to Pennsylvania by Cope.^ 

 He reports it from the Great Lakes, Ohio and Potomac Rivers, also 

 the "Delaware River (Abbott)," as "a rare species in Pennsyl- 

 vania." Dr. T. H. Bean later^ states "it has been collected in the 

 Delaware River by Dr. C. C. Abbott, in the Potomac by Professor 



2 Rep. Comm. Fisher. Pa., 1879-80 (1881), p. 100. 

 •' L.c, 1889-91 (1892), p. 84. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Baird. "- Later* I stated, '^Percopsis guttattis Agassiz has been 

 credited to the Delaware River by writers with reference to its 

 capture by Dr. Charles C. Abbott. However, Dr. Abbott tells me 

 that he has never taken this fish in the Delaware, and also that he 

 has never seen a specimen from any part of the same river system. 

 The confusion he attributes to the remark which he made that 

 Baird had reported it from Easton, Pa." Its occurrence in the 

 Delaware was previously admitted by Jordan and Evermann,^ and 

 copied recently by Kendall,^ in his paper on the identity of Percopsis 

 cjuttatus Agassiz with the earlier Salmo omiscomaycus AValbaum. 

 Uhler and Lugger first record^ it from the lower Potomac and also 

 state, ''Prof. Baird has seen specimens from the Susquehanna 

 River." Subsequently Smith and Bean mention it* from the 

 Potomac basin in Rock Creek and Cabin John Run, where "it is not 

 abundant, so far as known." 



That Prof. Baird's Delaware River record was correct is quite 

 likely, as Messrs. Mattern have recently presented the Academj^ 

 with a number of examples, taken in the Jordan Creek near Allen- 

 town, or about three miles above the mouth where it debouches into 

 the Lehigh River. These little fish were captured August 26, 1916. 

 They were quite active, dwelling in the clear waters of the stream, 

 and associated with shiners, black-nosed dace, suckers and darters. 

 They are free swimmers, and travel in schools composed entirely of 

 their own species, and none were secured in water less than a foot 

 in depth. Their capture is of interest as serving to record with 

 certainty the trout-perch in the Delaware River basin. 



The allied western Columbia differs chiefly in the more robust 

 dorsal and anal spines, the latter two in number. In my examples 

 of the trout-perch the dorsal and anal spines are slender. As the 

 species is somewhat variable, the following variations are from 15 

 examples. Head 2| to 3f ; depth 3f to 4i; D. Ill, rarely IV, 9 or 10, 

 rarely 8; A. I, 7, frequently 6, rarely 9; V. I, 7; scales in lateral line 

 variable, usually 44 to 52, rareh^ 40, to caudal base, and usually 2 

 on latter, often 3; 6 scales above 1. 1., often 7, rarely 5; 8 scales below 

 1. 1. to anal origin, sometimes 7; snout 2f to 3 in head; eye 3 to 3|; 

 maxillary 3 to 3^; interorbital 3| to 4|; length 45 to 77 mm. In 

 the smaller examples dark spots on the back are larger and few. 



4 Rep. N. J. State Mus., 1905 (1906), p. 274. 



5 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus.. No. 47, I, 1896, p. 784. 

 «Proc. Biol. 8oc. Wash., XXIV, 1911, pp. 45-52. 

 ^ Rep. Com. F. Md., 1876, p. 129. 



8 Bull. U. S. F. Com., XVIII, 1898 (1899), p. 185. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



All shoAv a dark streak oliliquely over the opercle. The maxillary 

 is always shorter than in the figure by Jordan and Evermann,^ usualh' 

 reaching two-thirds to eye. Other examples in the Academy from: 

 Sparrow Lake, Ontario; Lake Superior; Cherokee, Iowa; La Points, 

 Wisconsin, and tributary of Lake Ontario. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). 



Little Lehigh River. 



Ambloplites rupestris (Rafinesque). 



Wister Lsland. 

 Xepomis auritus (Linng). 



Bangor, Souderton, Swamp Creek, Emaus, Lanark, Helfrich's 

 Springs, Elk View, West Branch of Elk Creek and Shady Nook. 



Pomotis gibboSUS (Linne). 



Swamp, Indian and Jordan Creeks, Pennsburg, Hosensack, 

 Lanark and Joanna. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lac6pede. 



Silver Spring, Hosensack and New Tripoli. 



Micropterus salmoides (Lac6p§de). 



Jordan Creek, Hosensack and Souderton. 



Perca flavescens (Mitchill). 



Hosensack. 

 Hadropterus peltatus (Cope). 



Messrs. Mattern visited Skippack Creek on October 1, at the 

 locality I obtained this species previously.^" They write: ''We 

 went up the creek and after about three-quarters of a mile we caught 

 the darter. We supposed it to be the shielded darter, as it has the 

 plates or scales on the belly and a slightly forked tail. We caught 

 two of them and think we saw four more. In fact, we were able to 

 identify them in the water. They are very swift swimmers. How 

 you were able to catch your example with a hand net is a mystery. 

 As we stepped into the swift water they would immediately dart 

 up stream and hide under stones. Occasionally one would rest in 

 an unprotected position on top of a stone, and as soon as we made 

 any movement it would dart off six or eight feet. Likely as we did 

 not know how to fish for it, we may have overlooked it in Lehigh 

 County streams." 



9 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, IV, 1900, PL 121. 

 10 Science, XL, December 25, 1914, p. 939. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Stor^v). 



Emaus, Vera Cruz, Hereford, Hosensack, Saucon and tributary 

 at Xianark, Jordan and Indian Creeks, Trout Run, Little Lehigh 

 River, Lizard, Coplay and Fell Creeks, Lehigh River, New Tripoli, 

 Swamp Creek, Bangor, Hay Creek and Beaver Creek at White Bear, 

 Joanna, Simmon's Run and North Branch, triljutary of Conodoguinet 

 near Lamb's Gap, Cove Creek, Wister Island, Fishing Creek and 

 near Keystone, Elk View, West Branch Big Elk and Little Elk 

 Creeks. 

 Cottus gracilis Heckel. 



Elk View, Trout Run and Little Lehigh River. 



Maryland. 



A few collections were made in Anne Arundel County in May of 

 191t) (in the fish market at Annapolis of specimens secured near by 

 in the Severn River, and the South River basin, at Rhodes River, 

 Barrow, Muddy and Scaffold Creeks), in Cecil County (during late 

 May, 1914, at Bohemia Bridge, Dike, Scotchman, Pool and Cove 

 Creeks, and in late August, 1916, in the Northeast River at Charles- 

 town, Principio Creek near Principio Furnace, and the Northeast 

 Creek near Leslie), in Kent County (Swan Creek on May 20, 1914), 

 and Kent County (Rock Hall in August, 1915). 



Petromyzon marinus Linne. 



Bohemia Bridge. Small ones reported from Rhodes River and 

 Charlestown. 

 Eulamia milberti (Mailer and Henle). 



Only known in the Northeast River from reports of occasional 

 sharks seen in the lower Avaters during recent years. In the spring 

 they were captured in shad seines, and in 1911? five, 6 to 10 or 

 more feet in length, were landed within two or three days at Carpen- 

 ter's Point. 

 Acipenser sturio Linne. 



Formerly common about Charlestown, now rare, and only small 

 ones seen. Young also reported from the Rhodes River. 

 Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Bohemia Bridge, Annapolis, Rhodes River and CharlestowUj also 

 the next. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 

 Breevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). 



Bohemia Bridge, Rockhall, Rhodes River and oyster bar at mouth 

 of South River. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Dorosoma cepedianum (Le Sueur). " 



Bohemia Bridge and South River, 



Anchovia mitchilli (Valenciennes) . 



Rhodes River, Barrow, Muddy and Scaffold Creeks. 

 Ameiurus oatus iLinn6). 



Bohemia Bridge. 

 Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



Bohemia Bridge and Annapolis. 



Hybognathus nuohalis regius (Girard). 



Muddy Creek. 

 Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 

 Swan Creek. 



Leuciscus vandoisulus Valenciennes. 



Swan Creek, Principio Furnace and Leslie. 

 Abramis crysoleucas (Mifchill). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman, Cove and Muddy Creeks. 

 Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



Muddy Creek. 



Notropis procne (Cope). 



Swan Creek. 

 Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman Creek and Charlestown. 

 Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



SAvan Creek, Principio Furnace and Leslie. 

 Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). 



Leslie. 

 Rhinichtbys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Principio Furnace and Leslie. 

 Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). 



Principio Furnace and Leslie. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 



Swan Creek, Principio Furnace and Leslie. 

 Cyprinus carpio Linne. 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman Creek, Rhodes River and Muddy 

 Creek. In the Rhodes River two large ones were found thickly 

 parasitized with JEgathoa oculata (Say). 

 Catostomus commersonnii (Lac6pMe). 



Swan Creek, Bohemia Bridge, Cove Creek, Principio Furnace and 

 Leslie. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. 



Swan Creek, Principio Furnace and Leslie. 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). 



Bohemia Bridge. 



Anguilla rostrata Le Sueur. 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman Creek, AnnapoUs, South River and 

 Rhodes River. 



Esox americanus Gmelin. 



Bohemia Bridge and Muddy Creek. 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



South River and Muddy Creek. 

 Umbra pygmaea (De Kay). 

 Dike Creek. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Rockhall, South River, Scaffold, Muddy and Barrow Creeks, 

 Rhodes River. 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Barrow, JMuddy and Scaffold Creeks, Rhodes River. 



Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur. 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman, Pool and Cove Creeks, Charlestown, 

 Rhodes River, Barrow and Muddy Creeks. 

 Fundulus luciae (Baird). 



Barrow Creek. 

 Lucania parva (Baird). 



Barrow, Muddy and Scaffold Creeks. 



Cyprinodon variegatus Lac6pede. 



Same as last, 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman Creek, Charlestown, Rockhall, 

 South River. 



Kirtlandia vagrans (Goode and Bean). 



Rhodes River. 

 Menidia beryllina (Cope). 



Bohemia Bridge, Charlestown, Barrow, Muddy and Scaffold 

 Creeks. 

 Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). 



Rockhall, Rhodes River, South River, Scaffold and Barrow Creeks. 

 Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). 



Pool Creek, Rhodes River, Barrow and Muddy Creeks. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Syngnathus fusous Storer. 



Rhodes River and Barrow Creek. 



Pomatomus saltatrix (Linn6). 



Rhodes River. One reported in the fresh tidal of the Elk River 

 about two miles below Elkton, October 15, 1916, by Dr. P. N. 

 Longnecker. 



Poronotus triacanthus (Peck). 



Rhodes River. 

 Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Pool Creek, Charlestown, Rhodes River and Muddy Creek. 

 Lepomis auritus (Linn6). 



Swan Creek, Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman and Cove Creeks, 

 Charlestown, Principio Furnace and Leslie. 

 Pomotis gibbosus (Linn6). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman and Cove Creeks, Charlestown, 

 Principio Furnace, Leslie, South River, Muddy Creek, Rhodes River. 



Micropterus salmoides (Lac6pede). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman's Creek and Charlestown. 

 Perca flavescens (Mitchill). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman and Cove. Creeks, Charlestown,. 

 South River. 

 Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Swan Creek, Bohemia Bridge, Pool Creek, Leslie. 

 Roccus lineatus (Bloch). 



Bohemia Bridge, Annapolis, Charlestown and Rhodes River. 

 Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Bohemia Bridge, Scotchman Creek, Charlestown, Annapolis, 

 South River, Barrow Creek and Rhodes River. 



Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). 



Annapolis, South and Rhodes Rivers. 



' Bairdiella chrysura (Lac^pede). 



Annapolis, Rhodes River and oyster bar at mouth of South River. 

 Leiostomus xanthurus Lac^pede. 



Annapolis, Barrow Creek and Rhodes River. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linne). 



Annapolis, South and Rhodes Rivers. 



Spheroides maculatus (Schneider). 



Rhodes River. 

 Gobiesox strumosus Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. 121. Hilton Head, South 

 Carolina. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaFch, 



This species was described from examples (now 14 in number) in 

 the Academy, obtained from T. J. Craven at Hilton Head, South 

 Carolina. As these examples are still in fair preservation, they have 

 been examined and compared with the accounts of other writers 

 published subsequently. Cope gives D. 11 and A. 10. His series 

 shows D. usually 11 and occasionally 12, A. usually 9, occasionally 

 10 and rarely 8. He says, ''Color in spirits bluish-lead color; fins 

 blackish." In this respect the body is now nearly uniform, though 

 the fins show dark cross-bars or blotches. Evermann and Bean 

 record four examples from Indian River at Titusville, Florida.^^ They 

 give D. 11 and A. 8. More recently, Evermann and Hildebrand 

 record an example Ij inches long from St. Georges Island, Maryland, 

 and another 2 inches long from Gloucester Point, Virginia.'- They 

 give D. 10, A. 8. 



On December 15, 1915, Mr. R. M. Abbott secured an example 

 45 mm. long at South River. It has D. 11 and A. 9. When cap- 

 tured it was clinging to an oyster, dredged up in the river, and was 

 received in fresh condition. Its coloration was so much in agreement 

 with that given for G. virgatulus Jordan and Gilbert,^^ described from 

 Pensacola, and later recorded by Jordan" from Egmont, Florida, 

 that a careful comparison convinces me they are identical, and that 

 G. virgatulus Jordan and Gilbert must be merged in the synonymy. 

 There is absolutely nothing in their description not applical)!e to my 

 specimens. The known range of G. strumosus will then extend from 

 the upper Chesapeake Bay and Maryland to Pensacola, Florida. 

 My entire series range from 30 to 77 mm., including additional 

 material, also from South River, recently received. 



Gobiosoma bosc Lacepede. 



Rhodes River and oyster bar at mouth of South River. 

 Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Walbaum). 



Rockhall, Annapolis and Rhodes River. 

 Achirus fasciatus Lacepede. 



Bohemia Bridge, South and Rhodes Rivers. 



Chasmodes bosquianus (Lacepede). 



Chesapeake Bay near mouth of West River, and both sexes from 

 oyster l:)ar at mouth of South River. 

 Opsanus tau (Linne). 



Rhodes River. 



11 Rep. U. S. F. Com., 1896 (1898), p. 248. 

 •2 Proo. Biol. Soc. Wash., XXIII, 1910, p. 163. 

 1'^ Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, p. 293. 

 ■^ L.c, 1884, p. 149. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



A SECOND COLLECTION OF FISHES FROM THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Air. David E. Harrower again visited the Canal zone in the summer 

 of 1916, and made a collection of marine fishes at Colon. These 

 have been purchased by the Academy. Two species appear to be 

 new and several others are interesting records. 



Sphyrna tiburo (Linne). 



Three heads, 128 to 162 mm. wide.. Also seven young, 160 to 

 245 mm. long. 

 Sphyrna zygaena (Linne). 



Two heads preservetl, 167 to 198 mm. wide. 

 Eulamia commersonii (Bbinvillc). 



A head of a slightly larger example than any identified as Eulamia 

 porosus, shows several characters not in agreement. The nostril 

 as seen in profile begins nearly midway in the length of the snout 

 and nasal valves with only very obtuse wide point at hind angles, 

 whereas in E. porosus the point is distinct and projecting. Each 

 mouth corner with a conspicuous though very short fold. Teeth 

 all very finely serrate. No pores on loAver internasal space as in 

 E. porosus, those above rictus and in postorbital region inconspicuous, 

 whereas in E. porosus the reverse obtains. 



Miller and Henle state^ "Maul schwach konvex." Their figure 

 of the lower view of the head does not show any distinct point to 

 the ends of the nasal lobes, and there is no indication of a fold at the 

 mouth corner. It also shows the space between the snout tip and 

 mouth about an eye-diameter greater than the space between the 

 outer nasal corners, which is not in agreement with my specimen. 

 The short labial groove at each mouth angle and the width of the 

 orbit half of space to nostril are points in agreement with my material. 

 Eulamia porosus (Ranzani). 



One example, 432 mm. long, and three heads. The first smallest, 

 and shows the no.strils in the last third of the snout, though in the 

 largest head only slightly more forward. The smallest shows the 

 mouth length f its width, while in the largest but little over half its 



1 Besch. Plagiost., 1839, p. 37, PI. 12. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



width. In the smallest example space between front tip of lower 

 jaw and snout tip slightly less than snout measured from its tip to 

 eye. All have a distinct projecting point to the nasal valve. Very 

 slight outer fold at mouth corner. 



Ranzani's lateral figure- shows the nostril near the last fourth of 

 the snout as seen in profile. His lower view of the head shows it 

 slightly behind middle in snout length, as measured from snout tip 

 to eye. Also the mouth length is shown greater than its width 

 and without any trace of a short groove at the outer corners. His 

 specimen was about 1,171 mm. long. 



Scoliodon lalandi (Mailer and Henle). 



One example, 425 mm. long. Width of snout at outer nostril edges 

 shorter than space between snout tip and front tip of lower jaw by 

 nearly length of nasal aperture. Nostrils about last y in snout lengths 



Compared with Scoliodon terrce-novce from Holly Beach, New 

 Jersey, the width of snout, as measured above, of nearly equal 

 length with space between snout tip and front tip of lower jaw. 

 This species also shows the nostril about last | in snout. 

 Albula vulpes (Urm6). 



Eight examples, largest 324 mm. long. 



Sardinella humeralis (Valenciennes). 



Nine, largest 152 mm. 



Opisthonema oglinum (Le Sueur). 



Three, 105 to 162 mm. 

 Ilisha harroweri sp. nov. Fig. l. 



Head 3i; depth 21; D. iii, 13; A. iv, 36, i; P. ii, 12; V. i, 5; 

 scales about 34? (according to pockets) in lateral series to caudal 

 base; about 14? scales (squamation injured) between dorsal and anal 

 origins; head width 2| its length; head depth ly; dorsal base 2j; 

 mandible 2; lea.st depth of caudal peduncle 3|; lower caudal lobe 1^; 

 pectoral If; first branched anal ray 2f ; snout 4 in head measured 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 2|; maxillary 1|; interorbital 5|. 



Body strongly compressed, thin, deepest at ventral origin, edges 

 slightly trenchant, abdominal edge with 20+6 serrae forming 

 trenchant keel, profiles similarly convex. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, length about equals its least depth. 



Head compressed, sides moderately flattened, strongly convergent 

 below, upper profile moderately inclined and lower more so. Snout 



2 Nov. Com. Ac. S. I. Benon., IV, 1840, p. 71, PL 9. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



surface convex, wide as long. Eye large, rounded, nearly midway in 

 head. No adipose eyelid. Maxillary greatly inclined, reaches 

 slightly beyond front pupil edge till about opposite first f in eye, its 

 lower edge minutely dentate and greatest expansion about | of eye. 

 Mouth rather small, superior. Upper jaw with slight median 

 emargination as viewed from above. Mandible well protruded, 

 rami well elevated inside mouth. Each premaxillary with a row of 

 fine, slender, small teeth, median largest, others graduated smaller 

 forward and backward. Few weak mandibular teeth. Each pala- 

 tine with lengthwise patch of minute teeth. Tongue narrow, de- 

 pressed, few asperities above posteriorly, free in front and end 

 rounded. Nostrils together, hind one slit-like, about midway in 



Fig. 1. — Ilisha harroweri sp. nov. 



snout. Interorbital constricted, but slightly elevated, depressed 

 or with rather deep concave depression extending backward. Pre- 

 orbital width slightly less than f of eye, slips over greater portion of 

 upper maxillary edge. Postero-infraorbital about f of pupil. Pre- 

 opercle ridge oblique and hind edge only slightly inclined forward. 

 Opercles and cheeks smooth, latter with few traces of obsolete striae. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge. Rakers 

 12 -f- 24, lanceolate, about 3 in eye. Filaments about f of rakers. 

 Pseudobranchise 2^ in eye, much larger than filaments. Isthmus 

 slender, compressed, little swollen behind. Shoulder-girdle without 

 depression, though flexible fleshy keel before pectoral base. 



Scales large, cycloid, with 3 to 5 vertical striae on each, edges 

 entire, arranged in lengthwise series, largest along middle of side 

 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



and very caducous. Caudal and anal bases largely scaly, though 

 scales now largely fallen. Pectoral with free, pointed axillary scale 

 slightly less than half length of fin. Ventral with small, pointed 

 axillary scale. 



Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than lower jaw tip, 

 graduated down from first branched ray which longest (now dam- 

 aged), depressed fin 2| to caudal base. Anal inserted about opposite 

 first third of dorsal base, first branched ray longest, and base of fin 

 straight. Caudal forked, pointed lobes about equal. Pectoral 

 rather broad, reaches back but slightly beyond ventral base. Ventral 

 about long as pupil, inserted slightly before dorsal origin, and reaches 

 half way to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish on back, sides and lower surface 

 whitish, evidently bright silvery-white in life. Same also of head. 

 Lips tinted with brownish. Iris whitish. Fins all pale brownish, 

 dorsal and caudal tinged slightly with dusky about borders. 



Length, 96 mm. 



Type No. 46,959, A. N. S. P. One example from Colon. 1916. 

 D. E. Harrower. 



Related to Pellona castelnceana Valenciennes,^ which differs accord- 

 ing to the description in the numerous ramified striae in the preopercle 

 and opercle, D. 19, A. 36 to 38, and lower caudal lobe marked by a 

 large black spot. Pellona hleekeriana Poey^ is also related, evidently 

 more closely. It is described, however, with the eye 3| in the head, 

 depth 5f in total (in my example 3f ), A. 43, anal placed behind dorsal, 

 length of anal equal to its distance from hind border of eye (anal 

 length shorter in my example), and maxillary to hind pupil edge. ■ 

 As Poey's example was 104 mm. long, it hardly appears likely these 

 differences are due to age. 



(Named for Mr. David E. Harrower, who collected the type.) 



Anchovia macrolepidota (Kner and Steindachner). 



Three examples, 197 to 202 mm. long. 



Ophichthus gomesii (Castelnau). 



Head 3 to vent; head and trunk 2yV hi tail; snout 6 in head; mouth 

 2|; pectoral 2f; eye If in snout and If in interorbital. Teeth 

 biserial in lower jaw and on vomer. Nasal tubes short, pointed. 

 Gill-opening long as snout. Pores on muzzle and head conspicuous. 

 Dorsal inserted just behind end of depressed pectoral. Color in 



3 Hist. Nat. Poisg., XX, 1844, p. 222. Mouth of the Amazon. 

 ^ Repertor. H. N. Cuba, II, 1867, p. 242. Matanzas. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



alcohol largely uniform olive-brown above, pale yellowish below 

 (later turning whitish). Lower jaw grayish. Dorsal and anal pale 

 or translucent, edged blackish, this most distinct posteriorly. End 

 of tail whitish. Pectoral grayish. Iris white. Length, 400 mm. 

 Gymnothorax funebris Ranzani. 



Head of large example. It shows eye 2 in snout, mouth completely 

 closing and vomer with two rows of teeth in its median extent. 



Gymnothorax ocellatus Agassiz. 



Four examples, 350 to 395 mm. 

 Felichthys marinus (Mitchill). 



Three examples, 315 to 324 mm. long, which agree with my New 

 Jersey series. The specimen recently listed^ from Wounta Haulover, 

 Nicaragua, is found on further comparison to be Felichthys filamento- 

 sus Swainson, differing chiefly in its longer pectoral spine, which is 

 very little shorter than the head. 



Tylosurus timucu (Walbaum). 



Two examples, 483 to 490 mm. 



Sphyraena guachancho Cuvier. 



Five, 180 to 228 mm. 

 Holocentrus adscensionis (Osbeck). 



Three, 146 to 180 mm. 



Scomberomorus oavalla (Cuvier). 



Three examples, 191 to 228 mm. All with isopod parasites in 

 the gill-cavities. 



I previously listed young examples from Port Limon, Costa Rica^ 

 and Colon. '^ A re-examination and comparison of this material 

 shows that three larger examples of those obtained at Colon are 

 Scomberomorus maculatus (length 127 to 148 mm.) The one repre- 

 senting the present species is 147 mm. long. 



Caranx bartholomaei Valenciennes. 

 One, 173 mm. long. 



€aranx hippos (Linn6). 



Three, 127 to 142 mm. 



•Caranx orysos (Mitchill). 



Two, 140 and 148 mm. 



5 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 203. 

 « Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1916, p. 398. 

 ' L.c, p. 401. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Caranx latus Agassiz. 



Two examples, 122 and 136 mm. Scutes 40. 

 Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). 



Six, 98 to 170 mm. 

 Chloroscombrus chrysurus (Linn6). 



Five, 68 to 186 mm. 

 Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch). 



Two, 132 and 148 mm. 



Trachinotus falcatus (Linn6), 



One, 117 mm. 

 Epinephelus mystaoinus (Poey). 



One, 148 mm. 

 Epinephelus striatus (Bloch). 



One, 150 mm. 

 Lutianus analis (Cuvier). 



Four, 137 to 154 mm. 



Lutianus synagris (Lmn6). 



Six, 103 to 142 mm. 



Ooyurus chrysurus (Bloch). 



One, 177 mm. 



Khomboplites aurorubens (Cuvier). 



Five, 128 to 155 mm, 

 Hsemulon parra (Desmarest). 

 Four, 137 to 153 mm. 



Hsemulon flavolineatum (Desmarest). 



Three, 118 to 126 mm. 

 Anisotremus virginicus (Linn6). 



Four, 110 to 144 mm. 

 Conodon nobilis (Linn6). 



Two, no and 135 mm. 

 Braohydeuterus corvinseformis (Steindachnei). 



Seven, 88 to 123 mm. 

 Archosargus unimaculatus (Bloch). 



Five, 117 to 130 mm. 



Cynoscion acoupa (Lac6pede). 



One, 188 mm. 



Larimus breviceps Cuvier. 



Four, 117 to 162 mm. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Bairdiella ronchus (Cuvier). 

 Three, 132 to 152 mm. 



TJmbrina COroides (Valenciennes). 



Three, 110 to 154 mm. 

 Euoinostomus pseudogula Poey. 



Four examples, 93 to 137 mm. Eudnostomus harengulus Goode 

 and Bean, as previously reported from Port Limon, Costa Rica,* 

 and Colon,^ in the slightly more slender body (depth 2| to 3) and 

 slightly longer second anal spine. The present examples show the 

 depth 2| to 2|. 



Eucinostomus gula (Valenciennes). 



Eight, 88 to 117 mm. Depth 3|. 

 Gerres rhombeus Cuvier. 

 Eight, 95 to 135 mm. 



Upeneus maculatus (Bloch). 



Five, 118 to 180 mm. 

 Polydaotylus virginicus (Linn6). 



Four, 98 to 226 mm. 

 Abudefduf mauritii (Bloch). 



Six, 78 to 98 mm. 

 Laohnolaimus maximus (Walbaum). 



One, 128 mm. 

 Callyodon margarita sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3; depth 3^; D. IX, 10; A. II, 10; P. I, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 23 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 2 scales above 1. 1. 

 to spinous dorsal origin; 7 scales below 1. 1. to spinous anal origin; 

 6 median predorsal scales; 5 median scales on breast before ventral 

 origins; head width 1^ in its length; head depth at occiput, 1^; snout 

 about 3 in head; eye 5^; maxillary 4|; interorbital 3; first dorsal spine 

 2f; first dorsal ray 2^; first anal ray 4; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2^; pectoral 1^; ventral 1|. 



Body elongate, moderately compressed, deepest about opposite 

 middle of pectoral, edges all rounded convexly. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, about long as deep. 



Head compressed, moderately deep, profiles little convex and 

 alike, sides flattened. Snout convex over surface, slightly so in 

 profile, and length about j its width. Eye rounded, rather high, 



f 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1916, p. 399. 

 9 L.c, p. 404. 




134 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



and hind edge anterior to midway in head length. Mouth terminal, 

 commissure not quite extending half way to eye and inclined slightly 

 down in front. Maxillary largely concealed. Lips thin, scarcely 

 free. Teeth with nearly even cutting-edges, especially lower, and all 

 form narrow trenchant margins. Upper dental area with slight notch 

 near middle of each side, and behind this four small, erect external 

 canines each side. No lower canines. Both inner buccal folds broad. 

 Tongue large, thick, fleshy, not free. Nostrils pore-like, level with 

 upper part of eye, anterior about last third in snout length. Inter- 

 orbital slightly convex. Preopercle ridge little distinct, with number 

 of short radiating tubes. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite middle of eye. Gill- 



Fig. 2. — Callyodon margarita sp. nov. 



rakers 12-1-19, slender, fine, flexible, about 3 in filaments, and 

 latter about equal eye. Pseudobranchise little smaller than filaments. 

 Branchiostegals moderate. Isthmus convex. 



Scales large, cycloid, in even lengthwise series, more or less equal 

 in size, though largest on middle of sides and breast. Ventral with 

 free, pointed axillary scale about | length of fin. Fins naked, except 

 large scales covering caudal base. Largely two rows of scales on 

 cheek. L. 1. complete, high, mostly concurrent with dorsal profile, 

 and falls midway along side of caudal peduncle. Scales in 1. 1. 

 slightly smaller than those adjoining. Tubes largely simple, or with 

 only very short branch basally. 



Dorsal origin slightly before first third in space between snout tip 

 and caudal base, spines largely pungent though tips somewhat 

 flexible, and edge of fin entire. Anal spines small, somewhat flexible, 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



fin otherwise like dorsal. Caudal with hind edge rounded. Pectoral 

 small, first rudimentary ray short and as concealed thorn, fin extend- 

 ing 1| to anal, ^'entral inserted slightly behind pectoral origin, fin 

 reaching half way to vent. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, lower sides and under 

 surfaces paler to whitish. Upper surface of head with slaty tints. 

 Teeth whitish. Iris pale yellowish. An obscure dark brownish 

 lengthwise band from eye to upper caudal base. Below a similar 

 shorter band, parallel, from pectoral axil back to lower caudal base. 

 ^"ertical fins all pale dusky, lower anal edge whitish. Outer pectoral 

 base dusky above, fin pale. Ventral whitish. Scales below lower 

 dark lateral band on each side of median ventral row, each Avith 

 white median spot, and those of lowermost row largest. 



Length, 138 mm. 



Type, 46,960, A. N. S. P. Colon, Panama Canal Zone. 1916. 

 David E. Harrower. 



Only the above known, and evidently allied with CaUyodon tris'pino- 

 sus (Valenciennes), but that species has been described as uniform 

 reddish-brown. Another allied species is CaUyodo7i aracanga (Gun- 

 ther) w^hich is uniform dark violet-purple and with the median fins 

 very dark. The present species differs from these, as Avell as the 

 others in the genus by its dark lengthwise bands and pearly-white 

 abdominal spots. 



(Margarita, a pearl, with reference to the white spots on the 

 abdomen.) 



Chaetodipterus faber (Broussonet). 



Four, 95 to 135 mm. 



Chaetodon ocellatus Bloch. 



One, 98 mm. 

 Chaetodon capistratus Linn6. 



Two, 75 and 80 mm. 

 Angelichthys ciliaris (Linne). 



One, 145 mm. 

 Hepatus hepatus (Linn6). 



Two, 105 and 128 mm. 



Hepatus bahianus (Castelnau). 



One, 132 mm. 

 Alutera punctata Agassiz. 

 One, 195 mm. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Lactophrys trigonus (Linn6). 



Four, 100 to 255 mm. 

 Lactophrys tricornis (Linn6). 



One, 205 mm. 

 Lagoceplialus pachycephalu8 (Ranzani). 



One, 285 mm. 

 Spheroides testudineus (Linn6). 



Four, 130 to 175 mm. 

 Chilomycterus antennatus (Cuvier). 



Three, 100 to 160 mm. 

 Dactylopterus volitans (Linn6). 



One, 180 mm. 



Batrachoides surinamensis (Schneider). 



One, 300 mm. 



Citharichthys arenaceus Everman and Marsh. 



Three, 80 to 103 mm. 

 Achirus lineatus (Linn6). 



Three, 122 to 180 mm. On pale side caudal peduncle and adjacent 

 region of trunk dusky. 



Symphurus plagusia (Schneider). 



One, 118 mm. 




1917.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



THE ANATOMY OF AN EOLID, CHIOR^RA DALLI. 

 BY HAROLD HEATH, 



In 1852 Gould^ described a species of nudibranch, dredged in three 

 fathoms of water at Fort Discovery, Puget Sound, establishing for 

 it a new genus, Chiorcera, whose translated diagnosis is as follows: 

 Body limaciform, head very large, pedunculate, semiglobose; oral 

 face ventral, discoidal; mouth longitudinal, surrounded by a double 

 series of cirri; cephalic tentacles foliate, retractile; branchial folds 

 fan-shaped, arranged in a series on each side; genital opening removed 

 from the almost dorsal anus." The species is further characterized 

 by a pearly and whitish-colored body finely reticulated with orange. 

 The cirri likewise are orange colored, and the cephalic tentacles are 

 capable of retraction within a special sheath. The total length of 

 the body is five and one-fourth inches. 



On the 26th of July, 1913, I collected a number of specimens of 

 what appear to be a new species of this genus in Rose Inlet on the 

 eastern shore of Dall Island in southeastern Alaska. Two days later 

 a few other individuals were taken in Hecate Strait near Hetta on 

 the western coast of Prince of Wales Island. To Mr. W. F. Thomp- 

 son I am indebted for additional material collected at Echo Harbor 

 and Sewell Inlet on the eastern coast of the Queen Charlotte Islands. 



The present species appears to be largely confined to the littoral 

 zone, as the larger number of specimens were collected on algae in 

 shallow water. Nevertheless, a considerable number were found 

 swimming near the surface, in some instances fully three hundred 

 yards from shore. As they crawl about the great head is frequently 

 contracted with considerable violence, possibly for the purpose of 

 dislodging small organisms which serve as food. Sections of the 

 alimentary canal, however, show it to be entirely empty, in all of the 

 individuals critically examined, with the exception of one containing 

 a few diatoms, so that we have little information indeed concerning 

 the usual bill of fare. In the act of swimming the head is contracted 

 as much as possible and the body is strongl}- flexed from side to side. 

 Large numbers of eggs were found attached to "eel grass" and 

 imbedded in gelatinous, spirally wound folds after the fashion of 

 manv nudibranchs. 



1 U. S. Exploring Expedition, vol. 12, pp. 309-311. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF []\Iarch, 



The following are the measurements of the largest specimen: 

 total length three inches, diameter of head one and one-half inches, 

 greatest width of body one-half inch, greatest width of foot one- 

 fourth inch, greatest height of body three-fourths inch. No pig- 

 ment is visible in the skin of living animals, though the body wall 

 has a milky appearance and is sufficiently transparent to show the 

 light blue and reddish viscera within. 



External Features. — The body (PL XI, fig. 1) comprises two 

 distinct divisions, the head and body proper. The head presents 

 the appearance of a low vault or cowl provided with two dorsal tenta- 

 cles, two sets of marginal tentacles and on its under surface bears 

 the mouth. Unlike CMorcera leonina, the dorsal tentacles are not 

 retractile, and in preserved material are plain, muscular, foliaceous 

 outgrowths. Gould states that the tentacles of C. leonina bear on 

 their anterior margins "an opaque, whitish papilla, presenting 

 something of a spiral or lamellar structure." Nothing of the kind 

 has been found to exist in the present species. 



The marginal head tentacles form two series, an outer set com- 

 prising from fifty to seventy-five large, slender processes, and an 

 inner fringe formed of much smaller outgrowths of approximately 

 double the number. Each of these cirri is provided with a nerve 

 (PI. XI, fig. 2) and gives evidence of being a tactile organ, though 

 observations along this line were very incomplete. 



The mouth presents the appearance of a longitudinal slit (PI. XI, 

 fig. 1) placed near the posterior margin of the head, and therefore 

 in close proximity to the anterior margin of the foot. Its posterior 

 border may be said to be formed by the free border of the head, 

 which here forms a deep angle usually devoid of the larger type of 

 tentacle. Laterally and anteriorly the oral opening is surrounded 

 by prominent, swollen lips. In living and in certain preserved 

 specimens, the head region for some distance beyond the lips forms 

 a prominent swollen area, occasionally thrown into temporary 

 ridges. Sections show this area to be highly vascular. Unfortu- 

 nately, more pressing duties made it impossible to make careful obser- 

 vations on living animals, and an exact description of the normal 

 appearance of this area is now impossible. It may be added that 

 in Gould's figure of C. leonina the mouth occupies a central position 

 beneath the cephalic vault or cowl, w^hose tentaculate margin encom- 

 passes it at a considerable distance. 



The body, separated from the head by a distinct cleft forming a 

 neck, is roughly conical in form, and ventrally is traversed throughout 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



its entire extent by a slender foot. Dorsally it carries a ninnber of 

 lappets in two longitudinal series attached along the junction of 

 the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the body. All of the specimens 

 in hand were preserved in formaldehyde, and while this served 

 admirably to preserve the general appearance and proportion of 

 parts, practically all of the lappets were found to be detached when 

 the material was unpacked for study. It is certain, however, that 

 each lappet is attached to the body by a slender stalk, and is leaf- 

 like in form. The only doubtful point concerns their exact number. 

 Judging by the slight circular scars where they were attached to the 

 body, there appear to be five on the left side and four on the right, 

 the place of the second largest one on the right being occupied by 

 the anal opening. In a few large specimens there are traces of an 

 additional, very small pair near the posterior end of the body. Each 

 is penetrated by ramifications of the liver branches and by a system 

 of blood sinuses. 



The genital openings are on the right side of the body in the neck 

 region, while the anal opening is far removed on the dorsal side of 

 the animal. 



Internal Anatomy. — In this species no distinct visceral cavity or 

 spacious primary body cavity exists, the various systems of organs 

 being surrounded by a loose meshwork of connective tissue and 

 muscle fibers with the intercommunicating spaces serving as blood 

 sinuses. Dissection accordingly is a comparatively simple matter, 

 and the different systems of organs, especially the nervous, have 

 been traced out in considerable detail. A description of each of 

 these will now be given. 



Considering first the digestive system, we find that the posterior 

 border of the snout is deeply cleft along the midline, and, lacking 

 the larger tentacles at this point, forms the ventral border of the 

 mouth opening. The remaining margin is fashioned into thick, 

 swollen, glandular lips united anteriorly, and of such length that the 

 mouth appears as a longitudinal slit three or four millimeters in 

 length. 



The esophagus or pharynx (PI. XI, fig. 4) is a comparatively short 

 tube, and owing to the ventral position of the mouth the dorsal wall 

 is considerably longer than the ventral. Immediately beyond the 

 mouth opening the walls are relatively thick and without folds, but 

 as the brain region is approached the inner lining becomes thinner 

 and is thrown into numerous longitudinal folds. Probably not less 

 than a dozen digestive tracts were either sectioned or opened care- 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



fully, but in no instance was there a trace of jaws, radula or distinct 

 salivary glands. 



Posterior to the central nervous system the lining of the pharynx 

 becomes smoothed out before uniting with the smooth-walled 

 stomach. Externally there are no noteworthy features to be noted 

 in this section of the gut. It may be said, however, that the stomach 

 is somewhat shorter than the pharynx and of considerably greater 

 diameter. On the left side of the stomach are two sac-like dilations 

 and one on the left, all of which are in communication with ducts from 

 the digestive gland. In sections the lining epithelium of each of 

 these sacs is seen to be thrown into a few high folds that are more 

 or less continuous with lower longitudinal ridges extending throughout 

 the main hepato-pancreatic duct. 



As noted previously, the ventral gastric surface is longer in an 

 antero-posterior direction than the dorsal, and the intestine is thus 

 inclined dorsally, forming a distinct dorsal cleft between the stomach 

 and intestine. Beyond this point the gut proceeds posteriorly, 

 sinking slightly toward the ventral surface of the body, and also 

 curving to the right until it reaches a point on the right side of the 

 animal near the middle of the body. Here it curves dorsally, and 

 expanding considerably opens to the surface. The intestinal epithe- 

 lium is fashioned into several folds, visible externally through the 

 thin wall, of which one, the dorsal, is highly developed and continues 

 like a typhlosole throughout the entire length of the gut. 



In preserved material the yellowish digestive gland is seen through 

 the translucent body wall in the form of a dense mat generally dis- 

 tributed throughout the body, penetrating the lappets and extend- 

 ing into the snout as far forward as the tentacles. As can be seen 

 in the figures, the follicles are united by an extensive system of 

 ducts, which finally communicate with the stomach by means of 

 one of the three openings noted previousl3^ 



The circulatory system can be disposed of in a few words, as the 

 sinuses are unusually delicate and difficult to follow. The pericar- 

 dium (PI. XIII, fig. 13), situated anterior to the rectum, is a spacious 

 thin-walled sac, with the ventral and posterior surfaces largely con- 

 cealed by a mass of excretory tubules. The heart comprises an 

 auricle and ventricle with their longitudinal axes directed in a dorso- 

 ventral direction. The aorta, leaving the dorsal margin of the 

 pericardial cavity, extends forward and soon disappears. On the 

 other hand, the sinuses entering the auricle have been traced into 

 the kidney and to a much less degree into the reproductive system 

 and liver. 




1917. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



The kidney (PI. XIII, fig. 13) lies on the dorsal side of the body, 

 immediately above the anterior half of the hermaphroditic gland. 

 In two specimens it was relatively thin and sheetlike, while in half 

 a dozen other cases it occupied practically all of the space between 

 the ovotestis and the body wall. As may be seen in fig. 13, the 

 most con.spicuous feature of the excretory system is a long and 

 slender, thin-w^alled reservoir, somewhat crescent-shaped in lateral 

 view. The form, however, is more or less irregular, owing to great 

 numbers of diverticula springing from its surface. Each diverticu- 

 lum divides several times, the number of divisions corresponding 

 roughly to its diameter, until it finally breaks up into a number of 

 thin-walled, transparent, blind-ended tubes [comprising the major 

 portion of the kidney. 



From the central and most elevated portion of the main reservoir 

 a wide cylindrical duct arises, which, narrowdng as it pursues a 

 course dorsall}^, opens upon the surface of the body on the left side 

 of the anal opening. For a portion of the distance this canal is in 

 contact with the rectum, and the excretory and anal openings are 

 accordingly very close together. As indicated by the drawing 

 (fig. 13), the ureter bears several excretory diverticula, and becomes 

 muscular and non-glandular only in the neighborhood of the external 

 opening. The reno-pericardial canal likewise is borne on the dorsally 

 directed ureter in the form of a short, inconspicuous tube, terminating 

 in much folded, ciliated nephrostome. 



The reproductive system forms a conspicuous and compact mass 

 in the posterior half of the body (PI. XII, figs. 6, 8, 9). Of the 

 various component elements, the gonad, occupying the posterior 

 half of the visceral cavity, is the largest and presents the appearance 

 of a slender conical organ comprising vast numbers of lobules. In 

 section each of these is seen to be composed of several short acini 

 communicating near the excurrent duct with a common chamber. 

 Spermatozoa are developed in the more central acini, while those 

 more externally placed contain ova only. 



From each lobule of the gonad a slender duct arises, unites with a 

 corresponding duct from some other lobule, and these unite with 

 other and larger tubes, until finally the resulting main duct, the 

 hermaphroditic canal, is formed that courses along the entire ventral 

 face of the gonad. At the anterior border of the gonad it expands 

 perceptibly, and in the form of a yellowish, smooth-walled structure 

 undergoes a few twists, and upon decreasing its diameter divides into 

 two branches, the oviduct and vas deferens, respectively. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The oviduct (Ov), the more dorsal of the two branches, comprises 

 three main divisions, of which the first is relatively the most slender 

 and forms a highly convoluted mass at the anterior end of the gonad 

 at a somewhat higher level than the remaining elements of the 

 accessory reproductive apparatus. This first section passes abruptly 

 into the second, which is characterized by a greater diameter, much 

 more highly developed muscular walls, and a more open arrangement 

 of the coils. Near its union with the third division, comprising the 

 albumen and mucous glands, it communicates with a slender seminal 

 receptacle (Sr), empty in all of the dozen specimens examined. The 

 mucous gland (Mu) is considerably larger than the albumen, w^ith 

 relatively smooth, thin walls thrown into gentle folds internally. 

 The albumen gland ( Al) , on the other hand, is externally folded to a 

 conspicuous degree, especially in its distal half. It communicates 

 at its base with the mucous gland, and the secretory products from 

 both make their way by a common canal which unites with the main 

 section of the oviduct close to the external reproductive opening. 



The vas deferens (Vd) enters almost immediately a compact gland, 

 possibly functioning as a prostate, by means of several slender ducts 

 which communicate in turn with numerous blind, finger-shaped 

 hollow processes (Pa). Sections show these follicles to be composed 

 of large, highly glandular cells, from many of which the secretion is 

 in the act of escaping in the form of a finely granular colorless product. 

 In some instances the hermaphroditic duct and the adjacent section 

 of the vas deferens contain multitudes of spermatozoa; none occur 

 in the supposed prostate. Beyond the prostate gland the vas 

 deferens proceeds as a uniformly slender, much convoluted tube 

 located immediately in front of the prostate. Distally it opens into 

 the penis, a thick-walled, twisted structure communicating with the 

 exterior by means of a pore immediately anterior to that of the female 

 reproductive opening. A retractor muscle attaches to the base of 

 the penis, and extending posteriorly divides, each half becoming 

 inserted in the body wall about opposite the lateral border of the foot. 

 The central nervous system, presenting the highly compact 

 appearance of the seolids in general, rests upon the dorsal surface of 

 the esophagus or pharynx a short distance in front of the anterior 

 border of the stomach. The cerebral ganglia are in close contact 

 along the mid line, and posteriorly are closely united with the pleural 

 ganglia. The lateral portions of the cerebral moiety are prolonged 

 into short horns. On each side of the mid line a short connective 

 leads from the posterior border of the cerebral ganglion and unites 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



with a corresponding tentacular ganglion. Each of these last-named 

 bodies is relatively small and rests in a depression between the 

 cerebral ganglia, and in every specimen carefully examined the left 

 is grooved and is considerably larger than the right. The pleural 

 ganglia are more or less spherical bodies separated by a shallow 

 depression from the cerebral and by a much deeper constriction from 

 the pedal, which are therefore more clearly defined. The cerebral 

 ganglia give rise to two or three pairs of nerves whose lettering in the 

 following paragraphs is the same as in the figures. 



CI, a nerve to the snout. In some instances this nerve has an 

 independent origin; in other cases (as in PI. XI, fig. 2, on the right 

 side) it arises as a branch of C2. In any event, it soon divides re- 

 peatedly, and, so far as traced, forms a plexus, with ganglia at the 

 nodes, that extends over the base of the snout in the middle area. 



C2 is a heavy nerve extending through the loose tissue of the 

 snout in the direction of the tentacle. About the middle of its 

 length it divides, each half with its branches passing to the inside or 

 the outside of the tentacle. The inner branch, after developing a 

 few fibers, supplying the more median portion of the head, extends 

 forward to the margin of the cowl. The outer branch, after dividing 

 once or twice, likewise pursues a course to the margin. At the 

 border of the cowl all of these nerves unite with an irregular nerve 

 lying at the base of and supplying both sets of marginal tentacles. 



C3 extends from each cerebral ganglion into the lateral portions 

 of the cowl. After branching three times the resultant nerves unite 

 with the marginal nerve. A short distance beyond its point of origin 

 a connective unites C3 with C2. 



Cx, a nerve springing from the ventral surface of each cerebral 

 ganglion close to the cerebro-buccal connective (PL XIII, fig. 10). 

 Extending anteriorly and ventrally, it enters the inferior wall of the 

 esophagus. There are indications that it anastomoses with some of 

 the nerves developed from the anterior surface of the buccal ganglion, 

 but this has not been conclusively established. 



C4, the tentacular nerve, which pursues a direct course from each 

 tentacular ganglion into the tentacle, where it rapidly disappears 

 from view among the dense mass of muscle fibers. 



Each otocyst rests upon the dorsal surface of the central nervous 

 system at the junction of the cerebral and pedal ganglion. In 

 preserved material in surface view it appears as a yellowish, spherical 

 body resting in a shallow cup of black pigmented cells. No sections 

 of it were made. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



Two pairs of nerves, in addition to the two commissures (Pc), 

 arise from the pedal ganglia. The first of these is — 



PI, a fairly heavy bundle springing from the side of the ganglion. 

 Coursing through the dense mat of muscle and connective tissue 

 composing the body wall, it extends posteriorly and ventrally, and 

 divides at the junction of the body and head (PI. XIII, fig. 11). The 

 anterior branch supplies the body wall adjacent to the head, and 

 sends a ventrally directed division to join the extensive plexus 

 located in the foot. The posterior branch is distributed over the 

 antero-lateral body wall, and in some instances also appears to be 

 connected with the pedal plexus, though this has not been established 

 with complete certainty. 



P2 is a nerve likewise originating from the lateral surface of the 

 pedal ganglion, but posterior to the foregoing nerve. Extending 

 laterally and posteriorly, it divides opposite to the stomach into an 

 anterior and posterior branch. The anterior division supplies the 

 body wall posterior to the area adjacent to the 'external reproductive 

 opening, and, extending to the foot, unites with the pedal plexus. 

 The posterior branch continues posteriorly to a point about opposite 

 to the level of the vas deferens, where it divides. The ventral 

 division pursues a fairly direct course to the foot, where it unites 

 with the pedal plexus. The dorsal branch continues its way along 

 the side of the body to the posterior end of the animal. Throughout 

 its course it develops at least four connectives which unite with the 

 pedal plexus. Approximately one-third of its length beyond the 

 point of origin, P2 gives rise to two dorsally directed branches. The 

 anterior one passes forward and appears to anastomose with nerves 

 from offshoots of x and y (fig. 12) arising from the pleural ganglion. 

 The posterior branch, a slender nerve, pursues a course posteriorly 

 and dorsally, and more or less parallel with P2 extends to the hinder 

 end of the body. Throughout its extent it develops four branches, 

 which pass into the dorsal lappets and about the anal opening, since 

 this normally replaces one of the lappets on the right side. 



The pedal ganglia are united by two commissures (Pc), the heavier 

 one being anterior. 



Four pairs of nerves usually pass out from the pleural ganglia. 

 In certain cases this may become obscured on one or both sides 

 through fusion or the presence of heavy connectives. In addition 

 to these paired nerves, a single one — 



G, appears on the right side (PI. XIII, figs. 11, 12), emerging at a 

 point close to the union of the pedal and pleural ganglia. Coursing 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



ventrally and posteriorly, it finally reaches the region of the accessory 

 reproductive apparatus, where it breaks up into several distinct 

 branches. One of these disappears from view among the coils of 

 the vas deferens, two or three minute twigs enter the penis, and in 

 two specimens nerves have been traced into the seminal receptacle 

 and into the oviduct adjacent to its external opening. 



Pll arises from the antero-ventral border of the pleural ganglion. 

 In one case it was represented by two nerves, but whether single or 

 paired, it directs its course dorsally, and branching repeatedly is 

 distributed to the dorsal body wall in the neck region. 



P12, a somewhat stronger nerve than Pll, near which it originates, 

 extends in a postero-dorsal direction and after giving off one or two 

 small nerves enters the most anterior and largest lappet. 



P13 arises close to P12, at times fused with it basally, and likewise 

 courses dorsally and posteriorly as far backward as the anal opening. 

 Throughout its extent it gives off branches to the first lappet, which 

 is also innervated by a branch from P12, and also to the second and 

 third lappets. As the third lappet has no counterpart on the right 

 side of the body, the corresponding nerve is distributed to the region 

 about the anus. Attention has been called to the fact that the 

 third lappet and anal region are likewise innervated by branches of 

 P2. 



P14 courses ventrally and after dividing becomes lost in the con- 

 nective tissue and muscle fibers of the body wall close to the anterior 

 margin of the foot. 



Buccal System. — From the postero-ventral face of the cerebral 

 ganglia the cerebro-buccal connectives arise, and coursing around 

 the sides of the pharynx or esophagus unite with the buccal ganglia 

 (PI. XIII, fig. 10, B) at the sides of the digestive tract. The buccal 

 ganglia are more or less globular bodies, and in addition to the 

 cerebro-buccal coimectives each is attached to three other nerves, 

 of which one is the commissure extending beneath the pharynx to 

 join its fellow of the opposite side. Of the remaining two nerves 

 one is comparatively short, and extending anteriorly unites almost 

 immediately with a nerve originating more dorsally from the cerebro- 

 buccal connective. Beyond this point of union the combined bundle 

 extends anteriorly and ventrally, and after forming a plexus becomes 

 lost among the muscles of the pharynx. The last buccal nerve to be 

 considered pursues a posteriorly directed course from the buccal 

 ganglion, and very soon unites with the smaller of the two pedal 

 commissures. Posterior to this point it continues along the sides of 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the pharynx to a point about midway between the level of the central 

 nervous system and the first liver pouch. Here it divides, one branch 

 extending dorsally to enter the pleural gangUon or the base of P13, 

 while the ventral branch is directed to the ventral wall of the pharynx 

 where it breaks up into several branches. Both of these last-named 

 nerves give rise to a single offshoot, each of which continues backward 

 to the anterior border of the first liver pouch where they enter a 

 strong, ganglionated commissure, passing over the dorsal wall of 

 the pharynx. The lower of the two nerves just mentioned develops 

 a nerve, before entering the dorsal commissure, which is directed 

 posteriorly beneath the first liver pouch and branches over the 

 ventral wall of the stomach. Another nerve, having a similar 

 course, arises from the ganglion, and curving around the ventral 

 margin of the pouch becomes lost on its walls after branching two 

 or three times. 



As noted previously, the dorsal buccal commissure is ganglionated 

 at the point of union with the two nerves connected more anteriorly 

 with the buccal ganglion, and posteriorly this ganglionated section 

 extends along the sides of the stomach to the posterior border of 

 the first liver pouch. From it a clearly defined nerve arises, and 

 extending dorsally follows the bile duct into the liver proper, where 

 it breaks up and can be seen extending along some of the larger 

 follicles. At the posterior end of the liver pouch the buccal nerve 

 divides, the ventral branch supplying the liver pouch and the ventral 

 wall of the stomach. The dorsal branch extends posteriorly along 

 the sides of the stomach, and upon reaching the second liver pouch 

 forms several branches, all but one of which enter the liver pouch. 

 The exception is a distinct nerve (Bi) which continues along the 

 sides of the intestine, where it soon forms with its fellow a plexus 

 that has been followed to the anal opening. There are indications 

 that in the anal region this plexus becomes continuous with branches 

 from P13 or P2, which, as noted previously, are distributed to the 

 body wall about the anus. 



From the foregoing paragraphs it will be seen that the head, 

 tentacles and otocysts are innervated solely by nerves from the 

 cerebral gangUa. The neck region is suppHed with branches (PU, 

 P14) from the pleural ganglia. The entire ventral half of the body 

 proper and the posterior dorsal half is provided with nerves (PI, P2) 

 from the pedal ganglia. The remaining dorsal half is furnished with 

 offshoots from pleural ganglion nerves (P12, P13). The ventral 

 surface of the esophagus is innervated by nerves (Cx) from the 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



ventral face of the cerebral ganglia. The stomach is supplied with 

 at least three pairs of nerves having their origin in the buccal system. 

 The liver pouches and gland itself likewise derive their nerve supply 

 from the buccal nerve complex. From the same source a nerve on 

 each side of the intestine forms a plexus throughout the length of the 

 gut, and ma}' connect with branches (P2c) from the pedal ganglia 

 or with others (P13) from the pleural. The reproductive apparatus 

 is abundantly supplied with branches of the nerve G having its 

 origin in the right pleural ganglion. In two specimens there were 

 faint indications that delicate twigs from this same source enter 

 the heart and renal organ, but this was not definitely determined. 

 A brief diagnosis of the present species is herewith appended. 



Genus CHIOR^RA Gould. 



A description of the genus is given in the opening paragraph of 

 the present paper. Type of the genus C. leonina. 

 Chioraera dalli new species. 



Body limaciform, smooth and of a pearly color without definite 

 signs of pigmentation. Head enormously developed, with the mouth 

 near the posterior margin. Dorsal tentacles simple leaf-like expan- 

 sions without special sheath. Jaws, radula and salivary glands 

 wanting. Total length three inches. Off the coast of British 

 Columbia, in shallow water. 



It is with great pleasure that I associate the name of this species 

 with that of the renowned student of west-coast conchology, Dr. 

 W. H. Dall. 



Abbreviations Used in Figures. 



Al albumen gland. Ov oviduct. 



B buccal ganglion. P pedal ganglion. 



Bi intestinal nerve. PI, P2, P3, P4 pedal nerves. 



C ♦cerebral gan lion. Pa prostate gland. 



Cl, C2, C3, C4 cerebral nerves. Pc pedal commissures. 



Cx cerebro-esophageal Pe pericardium. 



nerve. P pleural ganglion. 



G visceral nerve. PU, P12, P13, P 4 pleural nerves. 



Lp liver pouch. Sr seminal receptacle. 



Mu mucous gland. Vd vas deferens. 



Ot ovotestis. 



Explanation of Plates XI, XII, and XIII. 



Plate XI. — Fig. 1. — Chioroera dalli, ventral view. 



Fig. 2. — Dorsal view of head, showing its innervation. 



Fig. 3. — Side view of entire animal. Anal opening, near which is excretory 



pore, replaces lappet; left one shown in stippled outline. 

 Fig. 4. — Side view of alimentary canal and digestive gland. 

 Fig. 5. — Left side of body, showing distribution of pedal nerves. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March,. 



Plate XII. — Fig. 6. — Dorsal view of alimentary canal and reproductive system. 

 Fig. 7. — Dorsal view of alimentary canal and digestive gland. 

 Fig. 8. — View of right side of reproductive system. 

 Fig. 9. — Diagram of reproductive system. 



Plate XIII. — Fig. 10.— Central nervous system and adjacent nerves. 



Fig. 11. — Right side of body, showing distribution of principal nerves. 

 Fig. 12. — Dorsal view of central nervous system and origin of principal 



nerves. 

 Fig. 13. — Lateral view of pericardium, heart and the excretory system with 



main reservoir, nephrostome, ureter and external opening. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE I. 



BERRY: MOSCHITES VERRUCOSA (VER.). 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19i: 



PLATE n. 



BERRY: MOSCHITES CHALLENGERI BERRY. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE III 



" *' -S^m^' ■■ . :■■■■ '■■'SI' ■ 



'^' 





4 ■"^'" '" 







~®. 





^_#"'r-#-^'r'^ 









FOWLER AND DUNN: SALAMANDERS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE V. 



PILSBRY AND BROWN: OLIGOCENE FOSSILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE VI. 



F1L:SBRY AND BHOVVN: OLIGOCENE FOSSILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE Vir. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE. NEW MEXICO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. I9i: 



PLATE VIII. 



1c 



4a 



la 



2a 



3b 



lb 



Id 



3a 



3c 



"/4 



7b 



7c 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE, NEW MEXICO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. -1917. 



PLATE IX 



^^^^^^^ 



-•2^%:X>- 



^ 



nn 





8 



_:^^ 



la 



lb 



3a 



WS^ 



4a 



4b 



'"^^y 



3b 



5a 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE, NEW MEXICO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE X. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSKS OF THE BLACK RANGE, NEW MEXICO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XI. 



HEATH: CHIOR.SRA DALLI. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XIT. 



HEATH: CHIOR^^RA DALLI. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI.. PHILA. 191" 



PLATE XIII. 



HEATH: CHIOR^ERA DALLI. 





1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



April 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fifty persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: Dr. 

 William H. Forwood, U. S. N., May 11, 1915, and Simon J. Martin, 

 March 24, 1917. 



Mr. John Rothermel made an illastrated communication on 

 the petrified forest and painted desert of Arizona. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 



Charles W. Frost, 

 George L. Harrison, Jr., 

 Charles J. Rhoads, 

 J. Parker Norris, 

 Howard Fuguet. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 



11 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



NEW MOLLUSCA OF THE SANTO DOMINGAN OLIGOCENE. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND C. W. JOHNSON. 



The authors have had a revision of the fossils of Santo Domingo 

 and Haiti, chiefly contained in the William M. Gabb collection, in 

 preparation for some years. The work is now completed; but as 

 some months must elapse before the illustrations can be published, 

 advance descriptions are here given of most of the new forms. 



The age of the Santo Domingan beds covered by the collections of 

 Heneken and Gabb has been the subject of some uncertainty; but 

 it appears that the lower bed or beds, containing Orthaulax, are nearly 

 or quite equivalent to the Orthaulax pugnax zone of the Oligocene of 

 Tampa Bay, while the upper beds, furnishing most of the fossils, 

 are uppermost Oligocene, synchronous with the upper beds (Gatun 

 formation) of the Canal Zone. We have found no evidence of Plio- 

 cene or other beds between the Upper Oligocene and the Pleistocene. 



Illustrations of the species here described will appear in the com- 

 plete report, now awaiting publication. 



AOTEONIDiE. 

 Aoteon subtornatilis n. sp. 



Actceon tornatilis Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos, Soc, XV, p. 245. 



Shell similar to A. tornatilis of Europe in size and form, but as 

 coarsely sculptured over the whole body-whorl as that species is 

 on the base. There are about 35 subequal spiral grooves on the last 

 whorl, cut into square or oblong pits by narrow vertical lamellae, 

 the grooves separated by flat-topped ridges which are wider than 

 the intervals except on the base, where they become narrow, no 

 longer flat-topped, and about equal in width to the intervening 

 grooves. Length 17, diam. 8.4, length of aperture 12 mm. 



This form was referred to A. tornatilis by Gabb, but it differs in 

 having the sculpture coarser and equally developed over the whole 

 body-whorl, not finer and fainter in the middle as in the well-known 

 European species. 



Type No. 3183. 



Acteooina subbuUata "• sp. 



This species is almost identical with A. bullata (Kilner) in form 




1917.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



and size, but the aperture is slightly narrower above, and except 

 close to the base there is no spiral striation. 



Length 10, diam. 4.6 mm. 



T^-pe No. 3193. 



Retusa biforis n. sp. 



The shell is perforate at both ends, cylindric, smooth. Above it 

 tapers to an angle around the concave summit, which has a small 

 perforation. Aperture is about twice as wide in the lower as in the 

 upper part. The lip recedes strongly at both ends. Columella 

 straight, the columellar margin somewhat reflected, the whorl narrowly 

 excavated below the perforation. 



Length 3, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Type No. 3192, A. N. S. P. 



Volvula ornata n. sp. 



The shell is moderately obese, tapering downward, with sculpture 

 of small axial folds near the summit, spiral impressed lines around 

 the base. Spine is moderately long, obtuse. 



Length 3.75, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Type and 7 other specimens are No. 3178, A. N. S. P. 



Volvula parallela n. sp. 



The shell is extremely fragile, slender, cylindric, showing extremely - 

 faint and fine spiral striation in the lower half. The spine rises well 

 above the lip, is rather short and acute. The columella is a little, 

 convex. 



Length 2.2, diam. 0.75 mm. (type). 



Length 3 mm. (largest specimen). 



All of the three specimens are somewhat broken. It is the most 

 fragile and slenderest Volvula we have seen. 



Type No. 3188. 



Volvula cylichnoides n. sp. 



The shell is rimate, oblong, the right side less convex than the left, 

 the surface smooth so far as can be seen. The lip rises high above 

 the vertex, which shows no trace of a spine, and is narrowly rounded 

 above. Columella nearly straight. 



Length 4.4, diam. 2 mm. 



Type No. 3177, A. N. S. P. 



This species appears to be closely related to the unfigured recent 

 V. aspinosa, but there is no trace of the rudimentary spine described 

 for that species. 




1^2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Atys cinctorii n. sp. 



The shell is perforate, very shortly fusiform, swollen and smooth 

 in the middle, rapidly tapering and encircled with impressed lines 

 towards the two ends. The vertex is narrowly concave, plain. 

 Columella prominent in the middle. 



Length 2.6, diam. 1.35 mm. 



Type No. 3185, A. N. S. P. 



The lip is somewhat broken. It resembles the Chipolan A 

 oedemata Dall, but has not the ornamentation of the vertex seen in 

 that species; and the columella is rather strongly prominent in the 

 middle. In oedemata it is figured as straight. 



Atys sulculorum n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, short, swollen, with sculpture of about 15 

 ■encircling grooves, which are widely spaced in the middle; low and 

 rather close vertical folds are seen in the upper part. They pass 

 over the vertex and converge to the axis. Summit concave. The 

 columella is rather thick, terminating in a prominent plait'. 



Length 2.3, diam. 1.35 mm. 



Type No. 3317, A. N. S. P. 



Terebra baculiformis n. sp. 



The shell is very slender, of nearly flat whorls. These have axial 

 sculpture of narrow, continuous, retractive, arcuate riblets, and 

 spiral sculpture of unequal cords and threads, which are weak where 

 they pass over the riblets. A narrow, convex posterior fasciole has 

 about 6 fine, unequal spiral threads, and is defined by a rather deep 

 sulcus, also striate. Below the sulcus there are about 7 unequal 

 cords, followed below by a group of finer threads. On the last whorl 

 the axial riljlets are sigmoid and extend to the siphonal fasciole the 

 uneven spiral striation covering the same portion. The anterior 

 channel is rather long for this genus, narrow. The columella is 

 smooth and very weakly sigmoid, being less bent than in most 

 Terebras. 



Length 30, diam. 5 mm.; 10| whorls remaining. 



The type is No. 2906, A. N. S. P. 



Terebra hitia n- sp. 



The shell is very slender, with slightly convex whorls. Sculpture 

 of many narrow axial riblets, narrower than their intervals, retrac- 

 tive above, vertical in the lower two-thirds. Below the suture 

 there are two spiral cords under the ribs, followed by a deeper sulcus 

 and then a prominent spiral, below which there are about 6 spiral 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



cords, unequally spaced, with some small spiral stride in the widest 

 space. The last whorl is largely broken away. The columella 

 shows one very low, rounded plait. 



Length 24, diam. 5 mm.; 11^ whorls remaining. 



Type No. 2905, A. N. S. P. 



Drillia sororcula " sp. 



A shell with much the appearance of D. ischnatrada, but differing 

 by the much shorter aperture, less produced anterior canal, and the 

 absense of spiral striae in the intervals of the spiral cords. The 

 latter are quite low and rounded, equal to their intervals. On the 

 last whorl there are 13 between the anal and siphonal fascioles, on 

 the whorls of the spire 5, with another following the suture. The 

 anal fasciole is excavated, without distinct spiral striation. 



Length 40.5, diam. 12 mm.; length of aperture 19 mm. 9 whorls 

 remaining, the apical ones broken off. 



Type No. 2929, A. N. S. P. 



Drillia subgibbosa n. sp. 



Turris {Drillia) gibbosa Chemn., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 208, 

 Not of Born. 



The penult whorl is crossed by about thirteen rather sharp axial 

 ribs which weaken abruptly where they cross the concave anal 

 fasciole. Some short ribs are intercalated on the last whorl. The 

 back is humped by a broad, prominent varix. The anal fasciole is 

 without spiral sculpture ; below it there are six spiral grooves between 

 the ribs on the whorls of the spire, and on the last whorl about 

 fourteen, here passing over both valleys and ribs. The anal sinus 

 is deep, separated from the preceding whorl by a heavy callous pad. 

 Siphonal fasciole is prominent. 



Length 53.3, diam. 19 mm.; about 10 whorls. 



Though resembling the recent D. gibbosa, this form is at once 

 distinguishable by the less regular axial ribs, which do not end 

 abruptly at the shoulder, but continue weakly to the suture; also 

 by the less contracted anterior canal. 



Type and a smaller specimen are No. 2920, A. N. S. P. 



Drillia elocala n. sp. 



Drillia henekeni Sow., Cossmann, Jour, de Conchj^l., LXI, 1913, p. 25, PI. 3, 

 figs. 10, 11. Not of Sowerby. 



This shell resembles D. fusiformis Gabb in sculpture, but differs 

 by the far shorter anterior canal. The whorls are strongly convex, 

 with sculpture of large, rounded, slightly protractive ribs, 6 on the 

 penult, 7 on the last whorl. These ribs distinctly undulate the anal 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



fascicle. Between sutures there is a strongly undulating presutural 

 spiral followed by several very small spiral striae on the anal fasciole, 

 which is not excavated or concave, and three strong cords, a fourth 

 barel}^ appearing above the suture. Between these cords some very 

 fine and weak spiral striation is visible. On the last whorl there 

 are 17 spiral cords in addition to the presutural cord. There is a 

 strong varix a short distance behind the lip. Anal sinus deep and 

 rounded. 



Length 25.5, of last whorl 14, diam. 9.7 mm. 



Type No. 3296, A. N. S. P. Seventeen other examples are No. 

 3295. 



Some specimens are more slender, the most lengthened being 26.5 

 mm. long, 8.3 wide. 



It appears to stand close to D. severina Dall, but that species has 

 a wdder, "distinctly excavated" anal fasciole, and a relatively 

 longer last whorl. 



Brillia callistura n. sp. 



The spire is straightly turrited, sculptured with regular, acute, 

 slightly protractive axial ribs, of which there are 18 on the penult 

 whorl. The ribs terminate abruptly above, leaving a narrow, deeply 

 concave anal fasciole which is bounded above by a spiral cord a little 

 distance below the suture. In the posterior fasciole and between 

 the axial ribs there are close, fine spiral threads, and weakly marked 

 growih-lines, more obliquely protractive than the ribs. On the 

 last whorl the ribs gradually diminish downward, and are wanting 

 on the narrow anterior end, and the lower half has rather coarse 

 spirals. A rather strong varix stands close behind the lip. There 

 are about 9 acute lirse within the outer lip. 



Leng-th 22, diam. 8, length of aperture 9 mm.; 8 whorls remaining 

 in the tj^De, which has lost the apical whorls. 



Type is No. 2907, A. N. S. P. One specimen. 



This species is closely related to D. jamaicensis Guppy (D. ebenina 

 Dall), from which it differs by having the anal fasciole evenly and 

 distinctly striated spirally, with no trace of the close, arcuate growth- 

 ridges, which predominate in jamaicensis. The anal sinus is not 

 nearl}' so deep and not contracted in front. The throat is lirate. 

 The spire has straight outlines. Finally, it attains a somewhat 

 larger size. 



Drillia ischnatracta n. sp. 



The shell is fusiform, the two apical whorls smooth, following 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



whorls of the spire with about nine slightly protr active axial ribs, 

 which do not cross the concave anal fasciole. There are numerous, 

 acute, spiral threads alternating with smaller ones. On the penult 

 whorl there are seven of the larger threads below and two or three 

 above the anal fasciole. Between the alternating threads are still 

 finer spiral striae. On the last whorl, where the axial ribs become 

 irregular, partly obsolete, the spiral sculpture remains the same; 

 there being about 28 larger spirals below the shoulder. The anal 

 fasciole is minutely striate spirally. 



Length 51.4, diam. 13.5 mm. 



Length 53.4, diam. 13.5 mm., length of aperture 25.5 mm.; 11 

 postnepionic whorls. 



Type No. 2904. 



This differs from D. henekeni by the more slender shape, with much 

 lower ribs, which become weak and irregular on the last whorl.' The 

 inter-liral spaces are densely, finely striate, while in D. henekeni they 

 are smooth. 



In many specimens the spirals do not alternate in size as described 

 above, the intervals having fine, unequal or subequal spiral striae. 



Drillia soala n. sp. 



The shell is fusiform, whorls strongly convex, concave just below 

 the suture. Penult whorl with sixteen acute axial ribs, nearly 

 vertical except for a short backward curvature below the suture, 

 where the ribs diminish abruptly in size. In the intervals there are 

 fine, rounded, spiral threads, scarcely as wide as their interstices; 

 between them much more minute growth-lines may be seen. There 

 is a strong, latero-dorsal varix. The aperture is somewhat broken. 



Length 45.5, diam. 17 mm. 



This species resembles D. squamosa in form but the acute not 

 nodose longitudinal ribs, the regular revolving sculpture at once 

 separate it from that species. On the other hand it is related to 

 D. venusta but is at once distinguished by its long anterior canal, 

 fewer longitudinal ribs and more numerous spirals. The fine lines 

 of growth between the spiral lines are wanting in D. venusta. 



Type and a broken specimen are No. 2932. 



Drillia hexapleura n. sp. 



A small species with nearly straight sided spire upon which the 

 limits of the whorls are difficult to make out. Sculpture of 6 very 

 broad, low, rounded axial ribs, continuous from whorl to whorl. 

 These are crossed by strong spiral cords, which are a little narrower 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in the intervals. Each whorl of the spire has two of these cords 

 below and one above the concave anal fasciole, in which a few weak 

 spiral striae may be seen. On the last whorl there are 11 spirals 

 below the fasciole, the intervals somewhat distinctly marked with 

 growth-striae. There is a stout varix behind the outer lip. The 

 aperture is rather narrow. 



Length 8, diam. 3.5 mm.; about 6 whorls remaining. 



The small number of spiral cords and very wide axial ribs dis- 

 tinguish this species. It is closely related to the Pliocene D. acucincta 

 Dall, 1890, a very much larger species. The strong varix behind 

 the lip of D. hexapleura shows that it is adult. 



Drillia mimula n. sp. 



The shell closely resembles D. parkeri in ribbing, except that the 

 ribs do not extend so far down on the last whorl. The whorls and 

 the whole shell are shorter, the last much more abruptly contracted 

 below. The smooth embryonic shell has only 1| bulbous whorls, 

 the ribs beginning strongly in the middle of the second whorl. There 

 is a microscopic sculpture of crowded spiral striae. Aperture broken. 



Length 16.5 mm. (broken anteriorly), diam. 5.8 mm.; nearly 10 

 whorls. 



Type No. 2925. 



Drillia esculenta n. sp. 



The shell is fusiform, of 10 whorls, the first 2§ forming the 

 embryonic shell are smooth and convex. Subsequent whorls are 

 concave in the upper third, then convex, with sculpture of rounded, 

 slightly protractive axial ribs, which become lower and arched back- 

 ward as they cross the concave zone. There are 15 ribs on the penult 

 whorl; last whorl having a stout dorsal varix. A few ripples along 

 growth-lines may be seen, more obliquely protr&,ctive than the ribs. 

 In the intervals and more weakly over the ribs there are crowded, 

 very fine spiral threads. The aperture is broken, but the inner lip 

 is continuous, rather heavy, and built forward. 



Length 13.3, diam. 5 mm. 



Three specimens are in the lot, the figured type having been bored 

 by a predaceous gastropod. The minute sculpture differentiates 

 it from other species of the same horizon. 



Type No. 2922. 



Drillia orthopleura n. sp. 



The shell is slender, fusiform, with sculpture of strong longitudinal 

 ribs, continuous from whorl to whorl, and smooth except for fine 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



growth-wrinkles. The riljs are lower on the anal fasciole, which is 

 limited below by an inconspicuous cord. The ribs disappear on the 

 anterior canal. The siphonal fasciole is banded above by an acute 

 cord. Columella is nearly straight. Outer lip broken. 



Length 14, diam. (estimated) 5 mm.; 8 whorls, several at the apex 

 lost. 



Type No. 3198, A. N. S. P. 



Drillia callistopleura n. sp. 



Shell fusiform, of lU whorls. Embryonic 1| whorls smooth, 

 the first one inflated; three following whorls are angular above the 

 suture, after Avhich the whorls become convex, having slightly 

 protractive axial ribs and spirally striated intervals. On the penult 

 whorl there are nineteen axial ribs, which are slightly lower and a 

 little arcuate below the suture. Between the axial ribs, on the spire, 

 there are rounded spiral cords, about as wide as their intervals, 

 twelve on the penult whorl; on the last whorl they number about 

 thirty-six. Anteriorly the ribs weaken and the spirals pass over 

 them. There is a prominent dorsal varix. Aperture imperfect. 



Length 22.4, diam. 7 mm. 



The smooth axial ribs, and uniform, close, revolving cords dis- 

 tinguish this species. It is nearly related to the following. 



The type and 4 specimens are No. 2921, A. N. S. P. 



Drillia lissotropis dorsuosa n. subsp. 



Cf. Drillia lissotropis Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. IX, 1881, p. 58; XVIII, 

 1889, p. 91, PI. 11, figs. 3, 4, and D. lissotropis var. perpolita Dall. 



This form has eight or nine smooth ribs on each whorl. They 

 extend from suture to suture, not being interrupted below the suture. 

 Suture bordered below with an uneven ridge, the intercostal valleys 

 slightly pitted below the ridge. There is a rather prominent varix 

 about one-fourth whorl behind the aperture. The outer lip is broken 

 away. A callous nodule on the body borders the posterior sinus. 



Length 8.8, diam. 3 mm.; 9 whorls. 



Drillia foveolata n. sp. 



There are twelve rounded, slightly protractive ribs on the penult 

 whorls, the intervals having sharply impressed spiral lines, seven on 

 the penult whorl. There is a low, rounded ridge below the suture, 

 the intercostal valleys somewhat pitted below it. There is a promi- 

 nent varix about one-fourth whorl behind the aperture. The outer 

 lip is broken. 



Length 14.3 diam, 5 mm.; llf w^horls. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The type and two otjier specimens are No. 2958, A. N. S. P. The 

 tjT)e is somewhat smaller than the others, both of which have been 

 bored by predaceous snails. 



Clathurella arnica n- sp- 



Resembles C. gracilis. It is less slender and the whorls are shorter 

 and revolve less obliquely. It has the same number of axial ribs 

 and spiral threads, but, as they are relatively larger, they are much 

 more crowded than in C. gracilis. The fine spiral lines between the 

 prominent raised threads are very minute. The lip varix is noticea- 

 bly larger, and the mouth is wider; the callous nodule on the body 

 next to the sinus is much larger than in C. gracilis. 



Length 16.3, diam. 5.25 mm.; aperture 7.5 mm. 



It is allied to C. vendryesiana Dall,^ but the prominent axial ribs 

 over the whole shell differentiate it. 



Type is No. 2913, A. N. S. P. 



Scobinella tristis n. sp. 



The shell is fusiform with turrited spire. The whorls are strongly 

 angular at the shoulder, rather deeply concave between the shoulder 

 and a strong, beaded ridge below the suture. There are four spiral 

 cords in the concavity. At and below the shoulder there are about 

 24, deepl}' beaded spiral cords, the beads arranged in protractive 

 curves. On the penult whorl there are four spirals below the shoulder, 

 which has a bifid spiral. The aperture is very narrow. The outer 

 lip of the type has been broken during the life of the animal, and is 

 thicker than normal, Urate within. The long, straight columella 

 bears two strong, mitriform plaits, and there is the faint trace of a 

 third one. 



Length 45.8, diam. 13, length of aperture 26 mm.; 6 + whorls 

 remain, the upper ones being lost. 



Type No. 2927, A. N. S. P. 



This is a shorter, less graceful shell than S. magiiifica, with the 

 whorls more strongly shouldered, more concave above the shoulder, 

 and with a stronger presutural cord. Scobinella morierei (Cossm.) 

 has a shorter anterior canal. S. ccelata Conrad is smaller and less 

 fusiform. 

 Conus furvoides brachys n. subsp. 



The shell is shorter than furvoides. The last 4 whorls are concave 

 and weakly striate spirally. It stands close to C. concavitectmn 

 B. & P., of Gatun, but that species has more copious and granulous 



1 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIX, 1896, p. 306, PI. 27, fig. 1. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



spiral strise in the lower half, and the spiral striation of the spire is 

 distinct. 



Length 33.5, diam. 17.3 mm. (type). 

 " 38, " 20.5 '' 



Conus xenious n. sp. 



The shell is broad above, the diameter about two-thirds of the 

 length; spire low, its outline strongly concave, rising to an acute 

 apex; periphery carinate, the slopes below it nearly straight. The 

 early whorls have a smooth keel, projecting above the suture, but 

 the last five are flat, with very weak traces of spiral striae, and sepa- 

 rated by a plain, narrowly impressed suture. The last whorl has 

 coarse, well separated spiral cords on the anterior end, but under 

 suitabty oblique light very faint spirals may be seen throughout. 

 The faint growth-strise retract rather strongly near the shoulder. 

 The aperture is very narrow. 



Leng-th 29, diam. 19 mm. (type). 

 27, " 17 '' 



Besides the type, No. 2575, A. N. S. P., there are three other 

 specimens in the lot. It was labeled "Conus sp. ?, monstrosity" 

 by Gabb, but none of the specimens shows any trace of injury, and 

 we have every reason to believe that they are entirely normal. 



Conus perlepidus n. sp. 



Conus planiliratus Sby., Gabb. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 230. 

 Not of Sowerby. 



The shell is rather slender, with somewhat concavely conic spire 

 of about 12 whorls, which are fiat, marked with raised, arcuate 

 strise, and have an angle projecting very little above the suture. 

 Last whorl is rather actuely angular, the sides nearly straight below 

 the angle, with sculpture of about 22 spiral furrows half as wide as 

 the flat intervals; the furrows being cancellated by raised axial threads. 

 The posterior sinus of the aperture is deep. Aperture of about equal 

 width throughout. 



Length 44, diam. 18, length of aperture 38 mm. 



Gabb referred the specimens of this species to C. planiliratus, but 

 Sowerby's phrase "Testa turbinata, crassa" could hardly have been 

 applied to such "a long, narrow species" as this. Gabb refers, 

 also, to Guppy's figure in Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, 

 XXII, PI. 16, fig. 7, which agrees well with Sowerby's brief diagnosis 

 of C. planiliratus, but not with the present species. 



The type and five other specimens are No. 2569, A. N. S. P. In 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



small specimens, 22 mm. long, the spiral grooves are equal in width 

 to the flat intervals. 



Conus trisculptus n. sp. 



The shell is biconic, the spire composed of slightly concave 

 whorls, with a low carina projecting above the suture. On the last 

 2| whorls this carina bears low nodes (about 20 on the last whorl), 

 but on the earlier whorls the keel is smooth. The upper slope of 

 each whorl has prominent, arcuate radial striae but no spirals. Below 

 the shoulder the surface is slightly convex, contracted a little above 

 the base. The lower half has about 13 spiral grooves, widely sepa- 

 rated except close to the base; and except on the anterior fourth 

 there are spiral series of small pustules which are slightly lengthened 

 in the axial direction, and are arranged in vertical row^s, but some- 

 what irregular in places. 



Length 34.5, diam. 16.5 mm.; length of aperture 27 mm. 



Costa Rica, Pliocene. W. M. Gabb. Type No. 2567, A. N. S. P. 



This cone was with the lot of C. consohrinus ultimus, from which 

 it is at once separable by the smooth keel of the upper whorls. 



Conus consobrinua ultimus n. subsp. 



CotiMs consohrinus Sb}'., Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila. 2 Ser., VIII, p. 359. 



Shell more squarely shouldered than C. consohrinus, and with 

 tubercles extending upon the angle of the last whorl. 



Length 52, diam. 24.3 mm. 



Costa Rica, Pliocene. Collected by W. M. Gabb. Type and 

 five other specimens are No. 3322, A. N. S. P. 



Conus longitudinalis n. sp. 



The shell is about twice as long as wide, with nearly straightly 

 conic, elevated spire of about 10 whorls. These are flat, with an 

 angle projecting above the suture and on the last whorl. There are 

 slightly arcuate, protractive strise above. The last whorl, below 

 the shoulder is coarsely corrugated vertically, the wrinkles somewhat 

 irregular. The anterior third has narrow, spiral grooves, the upper 

 three widely spaced, the rest in pairs, and all crossed by axial threads. 



Length 35, diam. 17.5 mm. 



This species is remarkable for its coarsely wrinkled surface. It is 

 known by one specimen with the outer lip extensively broken, and 

 the spire and part of the last whorl of another. 



Type No. 2574, A. N. S. P. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Conus simplioissimus n. sp. 



Conns berghausii Mich., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1872, p. 232. 

 Not of Michelotti. 



The shell is thick, stout, the diameter more than half the length, 

 smooth except for delicate growth-lines. Spire conic with concave 

 outlines, the whorls nearly flat, the upper ones angular above the 

 suture. Shoulder rounded, the lateral slope below it somewhat 

 convex, showing very faint traces of five spiral series of rather large 

 reddish spots. Above the shoulder there are some oblique reddish 

 flames. No spirals near the base or elsewhere. Aperture is some- 

 what widened in the lower third. 



Length 68, diam. 42 mm. 



63, " 33.5 " ; whorls 11 (type). 

 41, " 25.5 " . 



A cone of very simple form, differing from others of somewhat 

 similar contour by the absence of spiral sculpture. C. recogonitus 

 is much more contracted anteriorly, and has weak spiral striae. 



The smallest specimen of the three is that which Gabb referred to 

 C. berghausii Mich., an Italian Tertiary species. Dr. Dall has 

 included C. berghausii Gabb in t(he synonymy of C. proteus, but it 

 differs from that by the swollen shape, and is certainly distinct. 



Type No. 2549. 

 Conus porcellus n. sp. 



Conus cedo-nulli Brug., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1872, p. 232. 



The shell is broad, the diameter about two-thirds of the length. 

 The spire is low-conic with slightly concave outlines, composed of 

 about 10 whorls, the later two or three concave above, earlier ones 

 flat, a few showing a slightly projecting angle above the suture; 

 lightly sculptured with arcuate growth-lines. The shoulder of the 

 last whorl is well rounded; lateral slope convex in the upper part, 

 then straight. A siphonal fasciole is defined by an oblique, spiral 

 ridge, below which there are four spiral cords. Above the ridge 

 there are about 10 narrow, widely spaced spiral cords, each bordered 

 above by a slight gutter which is striated vertically. The upper 

 third of the last whorl is nearly smooth, but ujider a lens it shows 

 faint, widely spaced spirals, either slightly raised or indicated by 

 gray lines. 



Length 29.3, diam. 19 mm.;lengthof aperture 25 mm. (type). 

 38, " 24 " (largest specimen). 



Type No. 2546. 



A series of several hundred specimens is in the collection, the type 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



being contained in No. 2556, A. N. S. P. We are utterly at a loss 

 to account for Gabb's reference of the shell to C. cedo-nulli, which is 

 entirely different. 



The sculpture is rather variable, as usual in Conus some individuals 

 showing raised spirals nearly up to the shoulder, while in other the 

 upper half may be smooth. 



Conus pernodosus n. sp. 



The shell is rather slender, the diameter not quite half the length ; 

 spire produced, slightly concave in the upper part, of about 9 whorls, 

 which are slightly concave and spirally striated above, with a pro- 

 jecting periphery which is set with somewhat pointed tubercles on 

 the last 3| whorls. On the angle of the last whorl there are 11 

 tubercles. Below the angle the outline is very slightly convex. 

 Surface closely sculptured with flat-topped spiral cords about twice 

 as wide as the intervals (37 below the angle of last whorl) ; intervals 

 are sharply sculptured with axial threads. 



Length 23.3 (imperfect at base); diam. 12.3 mm. 



With the type, No. 2552, A. N. S. P., there are two young shells 

 about 15 mm. long, which show tubercles on the last whorl only. 

 The upper whorls, in this species, have a smooth, projecting periphery. 



Conus gabbi n. sp. 



The shell is rather slender, stoutly fusiform, with a concavely 

 conic spire of about 11 whorls; all post-embryonic whorls have a 

 tubercular keel projecting above the suture. Upper surface of each 

 whorl is slightly concave, with about 5 unequal spiral threads crossed 

 by prominent, arched, unequal striae. Below the shoulder of the last 

 whorl the slope is at first convex, becoming slightly concave in the 

 lower part. It is sculptured with about 37 smooth, rounded spiral 

 ribs narrower than their intervals, which are elegantly cancellated 

 by close raised axial threads. The aperture is rather narroAv 

 throughout. 



Length 43, diam. 17.5 mm.; length of aperture 35 mm. 



The number and spacing of the spiral ribs is somewhat variable. 

 In one specimen 35 mm. long there are only 24 spiral ribs. Conus 

 tortuosostriatus Toula (1911), from the Panama Canal, resembles 

 this species somewhat, but it has fewer and flattened spirals, and 

 there are some fine spiral threads in the furrows. It seems also to 

 be more contracted in the lower part. 



The type and four other specimens are No. 2553, A. N. S. P. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Conus larvatus n. sp. 



The shell is extremely slender, the length about 3| times the 

 diameter, fusiform. Spire produced, composed of flat whorls, the 

 beaded periphery projecting above the suture; apical whorls lost. 

 The last whorl is angular, the angle set with 25 bead-like tubercles, 

 which are a little lengthened in the spiral direction; elsewhere, above 

 and below the angle, it has close, even fine spiral cords with very 

 sharp axial striation in the intervals. Upward, towards the shoulder, 

 the striae slowly retract. The aperture is extremely narrow. The 

 inner lip is excavated in its lower fourth. 



Length (truncated) 33, diam. 9.5 mm.; 5| whorls remaining. 



Type No. 2550, A. N. S. P. 



This species, C. gahbi and C. pernodosus, were lumped by Gabb 

 under C. orbignyi Audouin, a recent species inhabiting the Eastern 

 Seas. C. gracilissimus Guppy, from the Oligocene of Jamaica, is 

 closely allied, but it is a distinct species, with wide, flat, revolving 

 costae. 



C. larvatus is narrower than C. tortuosostriatus Toula, and differs 

 conspicuously in contour. Toula's species has more resemblance to 

 C. gracilissimus Guppy. 

 Cancellaria gabbiana n. sp. 



The shell is short, turbinate solid, of about 7 whorls. The bulbous 

 embryonic shell consists of If convex, smooth whorls. Following 

 whorls have slightly retractive axial ribs much narrower than their 

 intervals, about 18 on the last whorl. At intervals of about a half 

 whorl there are rather broad varices. There are 18 spiral cords 

 hardly half as wide as their intervals and passing over ribs and 

 varices. Siphonal fasciole is prominent, surrounding a small um- 

 bilicus. The aperture is large, oval; outer lip is somewhat effuse 

 at the outer-basal part, but not retracted; sculptured within with 

 14 sharp lirse. Columellar plaits are not very strong, the upper one 

 thin, middle one somewhat blunt. A broadly spreading but thin 

 parietal callous coats the face in front of the aperture. 



Length 24.5, diam. 19.4 mm.; length of aperture 17 mm. 



The type and another specimen were among unassorted material. 

 No. 3288, A. N. S. P. 



Cancellaria (Trigonostoma) insularis n. sp. 



Cancellaria brevis Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 236. Not 



of Sowerby. 

 ? Cancellaria {Trigonostoma) aff. C. bullata Sow., Toula. Jahrb. k.k. Geol. 



Reichsanstalt, LXI, p. 504, PI. 30, fig. 10. 



The shell is short and broad, openly umbilicate, solid. There are 




164: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1| smooth, strongly convex embryonic whorls, 4| subsequent 

 whorls, which are separated by a very deep y channelled suture ; 

 the last whorl therefore being bluntly carinate abov and at the base. 

 Sculpture of strong, narrow, retractive axial ribs, 14 on the last 

 whorl, passing over the carinse at summit and base; crossed by numer- 

 ous, unequal, low spiral cords. The aperture has two strong lirae 

 within the straight upper margin, eleven within the outer. The 

 inner lip has many entering wrinkles, and three columellar plaits, 

 the anterior one low and obtuse. 



Length 24.5, diam. 21 mm. 



Type is No. 2989, A. N. S. P. 



This species is not at all like the recent C. hrevis Sowb. It closely 

 resembles C. perspediva Conr., of the Chesapeake Miocene, but 

 differs in its more rugose aperture and narrow, irregular ribs, which 

 in C. perspectiva are wide and regularly alternating. The aperture 

 and umbilicus are larger than in C. depressa Dall, of the Tampa 

 silex beds. It differs conspicuously from C. moorei Guppy in the 

 basal region. 



A Trigonostorna figured by Toula, referred to above, appears to be 

 close to C. insularis, perhaps specifically identical. 



Oliva proavia n. sp. 



Oliva cylindrica Sby., Gabb. Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 215 (pars 



secunda). 



The shell is somewhat fusiform, the upper fourth of the last whorl 

 and the spire tapering, forming a straightly conic spire. In its even 

 surface the suture appears as an engraved groove, the individual 

 whorls being flat. The first two whorls form a minute, mammillate 

 apex. Whorls 9. The aperture occupies almost exactly f of the 

 total length. Columella is rather heavily calloused, and bears about 

 21 very oblique plaits, of which all but about 10 in the median part 

 are quite small. There are faint traces of a color pattern resembling 

 that of 0. sayana Rav. 



Length 81.5, diam, 27, aperture 62 mm. (type). 

 " 101, " 37, " 86.5 " 



The type and a larger specimen are No. 2992, A. N. S. P. 



Comparing the two large . specimens with 0. sayana Rav. (0. 

 litterata Lam., 0. carolimensis Conr.) we note the more slender con- 

 tour and much more oblique columellar folds of 0. proavia. A further 

 important distinction is that the lateral contours of the spire are 

 continuous across the suture in proavia, while in the other species 

 the posterior edge of each whorl projects beyond the preceding. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



The type specimen is quite perfect except that the Up is somewhat 

 crushed in above, making the aperture appear shorter and narrower 

 above than it really is. 

 Oliva dimidiata n. sp. 



The shell is small, cylindric, with conic spire and mamillate apex. 

 The last three to four whorls are flat, covered with callous, and 

 separated by channelled suture. The last whorl is encircled a little 

 above the middle by a narrow groove. The basal fasciole has 6 

 strong ledges. There are 14 short folds on the columellar margin. 



Length 12.2, diam. 5.3 mm.; length of aperture 9 mm.; 6| whorls. 

 Others measure 11.5 and 13 mm. long. 



This was at first suspected to be a young stage of 0. gradata; but 

 that species is longer when it has the same number of whorls. More- 

 over, the narrow ledge of gradata is unlike the groove of this species. 

 It is closely related to the recent 0. undatella Lam. of the west Mexi- 

 can coast but is less inflated, and to judge by the three examples 

 in the typical lot, it does not become so large. 



Type No. 2804. 

 Marginella nugax n. sp. 



The shell is very small, biconic, of four slightly convex whorls; 

 apex obtuse. The suture ascends strongly in front. Aperture 

 narrow. Outer lip broad, thickened, the inner margin having 8 

 teeth, the upper fourth without teeth. Columella with four plaits. 



Length 3.7, diam 2 mm. 



Type No. 2802, A. N. S. P. 



Though very small, the lip has a conspicuous external varix. 

 Mitra tortuosella n. sp. 



The shell is fusiform, slender, with sculpture of acute axial ribs 

 (about 14 on each whorl), the concave intervals between them having 

 spiral impressed lines which do not pass over the smooth summits 

 of the ribs. There are 7 or 8 such impressions in each interval on 

 the penult whorl. On the narrow anterior half of the last whorl 

 there are well separated spiral cords. The outer lip is sculptured 

 within with five slender lirse. There are four columellar plaits. 



Length 18.5, diam. 6 mm.; 8 whorls, the embryonic being lost. 



Type No. 3285, A. N. S. P. 



This is closely related by its sculpture to M. tortuosa but it differs 

 by the very slender form. A young M. tortuosa 16.3 mm. long has 

 a diameter of 7 mm. 



In some of the intercostal intervals there is a median longitudinal 

 groove. 

 12 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Mitra tortuosella frater n. subsp. 



This form is closely related to the preceding, but differs by having 

 deeply cut spiral grooves about as wide as the raised cords, in the 

 intercostal intervals. There are 7 or 8 grooves on the penult whorl 

 which has 15 slightly arched axial ribs. The anterior canal is shorter 

 than in M. tortuosella. 



Length 14.7, diam. 5 mm.; 8 whorls, the apical ones lost. Further 

 series are needed to determine the value of the differences between 

 this form and the preceding. 



Type No. 3286. 



Mitra mesolia n. sp. 



The shell is short and stout. Sculpture of a few impressed spiral 

 lines on the upper part of the last whorl and the spire, 6 on the 

 penult whorl, the anterior end having about 9 low spiral ridges, with 

 faint traces of spirals above them, the middle part of the last whorl 

 being smooth. Lip thickened within in the lower three-fourths, 

 smooth; 4 columellar plaits. 



Length 20 (apical whorls wanting), diam., 9.5 mm. 



This species is shorter than the Galifornian M. maura which it 

 resembles. In a younger specimen only a small part of the last 

 whorl is unsculptured. 



Type No. 3275. 



Plochelaea gabbi n. sp. 



The shell is smaller than P. crassilahrum. Spire concavely conic, 

 of 7| flat whorls. First 2 whorls form a nipple-like apex; the next 

 2 or 3 are very delicately striate spirally; subsequent whorls showing 

 faint groAvth-lines only. Suture not impressed, suddenly ascending 

 to or very nearly to the summit of the last whorl, in front. Last 

 whorl has more convex outlines than P. crassilahrum, and terminates 

 in a very low, wide varix. The outer lip is subacute in the upper 

 part, but a little blunt and slightly reflected in the lower half. It 

 is not inflected. The upper third of the aperture is narrow, lower 

 two-thirds dilated, widest just above the basal channel, which is 

 deep and recurved. There are 4 narrow, nearly horizontal columellar 

 plaits, and al)ove them 3 distinct and one or tw^o vestigeal, smaller, 

 slightly ascending plaits in one specimen, but in the type only two 

 short plaits above the four strong ones. 



Length 25 , diam. 12.7, length aperture 22.3 mm. 



'' 27.4, " 12.7, '' " 24.2 " (type). 



The shorter spire, stronglj^ ascending anterior end of the suture, 

 and the straightened but not inflected outer lip, amply distinguish 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



this species from the larger P. crassilahrum, with which it was lumped 

 by Gabb. 



Type and one paratype are No. 3290, A. N. S. P. 



Xancus rex n. sp. 



Turbinella mlida Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 218. Not 

 Turbinellus validus Sowerby. 



The shell is biconic, large and ponderous, the periphery about 

 median. First whorl distorted, bulbous, smooth, next whorl con- 

 tracted and narrow. Succeeding whorls have massive axial folds, 

 6 or 7 on a whorl, traversed by about 7 spiral cords. After the 

 mid-neanic stage the spiral sculpture weakens, and the folds gradually 

 give place to strong tubercles at the shoulder. On the last whorl 

 of the type there are 12 such tubercles. Above the shoulder there 

 is a steep, slightly concave slope to the suture, the surface being 

 conspicuously, fineh^ plicate and having a few spiral cords, which 

 are indistinct in the adult stage. The whorl is appressed at the 

 suture, the axial wrinkles becoming strongly retractive laminae there. 

 The basal half of the last whorl has many spiral cords. The inner 

 lip is heavily calloused, columella with 3 strong plaits. 



Length (as broken) 212, diam. 117 mm. (type). 

 " 155, diam. 62 mm. 



This species differs from the recent X. scolymus by the shorter 

 spire, coarser sculpture above the shoulder, smaller and more numer- 

 ous tubercles at the shoulder, etc. The whorl slopes much more 

 steeply above the shoulder than in X. wilsoni or X. polygonatus. 



The type, No. 2628, A. N. S. P., and a series of 35 specimens of 

 various ages are in the collection. 



The description of the embryonic whorls is from a paratype. 

 Vasum pugnus n. sp. 



The shell is biconic ; spire elevated, the whorls having rounded 

 peripheral nodes, about 8 on a whorl, and spiral threads, about 12 

 with a few minor ones, on the penult whorl. On the last whorl 

 there are short, thick axial folds extending a short distance downward 

 from the shoulder, and an inferior row of blunt tubercles. From 

 the shoulder down there are low, well-spaced spiral cords, with about 

 3 smaller spirals in their intervals. 



Length 80, diam. 50 mm. 



The spire is higher and more straight ly conic and the last whorl 

 not so wide as in V. muricatum, the spiral threads on the spire are 

 much smaller. 



Type No. 2626, A. N. S. P. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Melongena orthacantha n. sp. 



The shell has a shortly conic spire, angular periphery, below which 

 it tapers rapidly. At the periphery there are short radiating spines 

 rising from short folds, which corrugate the upper surface. The 

 last whorl has 12 spines. There is an inferior ridge armed with 

 spines, and a prominent siphonal fasciole. Below the suture there 

 is a convex nodulose or scaly fasciole. The surface has also numerous 

 spiral cords, ten between the peripheral and inferior series of spines. 

 The aperture is smooth within. 



Length 29.7, diam. 25.5 mm.; 5| whorls (type). 

 36.2, " 31.2 " (wornadult)^ 



The type and two paratypes are No. 2956, A. N. S. P. The type 

 is a perfect but not quite adult specimen. A fully adult but worn 

 (beach rolled) shell has 10 peripheral tubercles on the last whorl; 

 the fold-like character is scarcely noticeable in this stage. The 

 sutural fasciole is more prominent. 



In a somewhat broken specimen 35.5 mm. long there are smaller 

 spirals in part of the intervals, increasing the number mentioned 

 abo\ie by about one-half. This specimen has ten spines on the 

 last whorl. 

 Anachis gracilicostata n. sp. 



The type specimen has 7 whorls, the first three smooth, the rest 

 with about 27 straight, axial riblets at least as wide as their intervals; 

 no spiral sculpture above the periphery; below it there are fine spiral 

 lines between the riblets, and on the anterior third about 8 spiral 

 cords. The aperture is about half the total length of the shell. 



Length 4.7, diam. 2 mm. 



Two specimens were found in the lot of A. exilis. As both are 

 immature, the aperture cannot be described; but the characteristic 

 sculpture, unlike any other shell of these beds, will insure recognition 

 of the species. Type and another are No. 2803, A. N. S. P. 



Another species of Columbellid is represented bj' specimens too 

 imperfect for diagnosis. 

 Strombina politissima n. sp. 



The spire tapers regularly, and is composed of 7 convex whorls, 

 separated by an impressed suture, which does not ascend in front. 

 A prominent, rounded varix strengthens the lip, which has a small 

 tubercle within near the posterior insertion, another at the beginning 

 of the anterior canal. There is a small entering callus on the 

 parietal wall posteriorly. Surface smooth and highly polished 

 except at the base, where there are about 14 obliquely spiral cords. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Length 7.1, diam. 3.4 mm. 

 Type No. 2801, A. N. S. P. 



One specimen was found with the large lot of S. haitensis. It 

 resembles that species in shape but not in sculpture. 



Metulella dominicensis n. sp. 



The long spire has very slightly concave outlines. The embryonic 

 shell is glossy and smooth, of If convex whorls, the first one rather 

 large. Following whorls are very slightly convex, angular a short 

 distance above the suture, which is in a channel. Sculpture of close, 

 fine axial ribs, at first smooth, but at the third a few Aveak spiral 

 cords appear, stronger in the intercostal spaces. On the penult 

 whorl there are 3 or 4 such cords ; on the last whorl about 5 from the 

 periphery up; just below the periphery there is a zone without spirals, 

 then about 20 stronger spirals on the lower part. There are about 

 7 teeth within the outer lip, and 5 or 6 on the columella. 



Length 16.4, diam. 5.2 mm.; 8| whorls. 



Type No. 3217, A. N. S. P. 



Closely related to M. fusiformis, but the whorls are less convex, 

 the spiral sculpture far weaker and the shell is more slender. 



Thais santodomingensis n. sp. 



The shell is somewhat biconic, with short, straightly conic spire 

 and weakly angular periphery. Suture bordered below with an 

 irregular, somewhat scabrous rounded ridge or welt; a somewhat 

 nodose low rounded ridge runs in the anterior concavity. Sculpture 

 of numerous vertical ribs on the upper and middle part of the whorls, 

 strongest at the periphery, ten on the last whorl, and many spiral 

 cords in strong relief. Siphonal fascicle prominent, umbilical 

 crevice open. The aperture has a shallow posterior channel and 

 the usual deep anterior notch. Columella is heavy rounded and 

 straight. 



Length 45, diam. 30 mm, ; 5^ whorls. 



Type No. 3187, A. N. S. P. 



This species may be compared with the recent Caribbean Thais 

 coronata (Lam.). It differs in sculpture, having rounded ribs in the 

 peripheral region, where it is indistinctly angular. In T. coronata 

 the later whorls are distinctly shouldered. There is a spiral ridge 

 in the concavity below, which is wanting in T. coronata. 



Malea elliptica n- sp. 



The shell is narrower than M. camura, with a longer spire. Sculp- 

 ture of flattened, very slightly raised, strap-like spirals, which are 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



much wider than the intervals. Three spirals below the suture are 

 narrow. On the penult whorl there are five subequal wide spirals 

 besides three subsutural narrow ones, the intervals traversed by 

 fine threads. The last whorl has twenty wide and three narrow 

 spirals. The aperture is narrow. Lip having about the same 

 structure as in M. camura. There is a large parietal tooth, with 

 smaller ones above and below it, and a prominent, double, columellar 

 tooth ; the columella and the upper part of the parietal wall strongly 

 rugose. 



Length 53.5, diam. 34.7 mm.; 5f whorls remaining, the tip wanting. 



Type No. 2590. 



The very much less raised and more numerous spirals, as well as 

 the general shape of the shell, separate this from M. camura. 

 Malea goliath n. sp. 



Large and globose, thin, with sculpture of broad, flat spirals 

 parted by furrows from one-fourth to one-third as wide, 19 spirals 

 on the last whorl, five on the penult and next earlier, where the 

 median one is larger and prominent. Perietal tooth composed of 

 four plaits. Columellar prominence with about six plaits, the 

 upper three larger. Outer lip broken, but fragments indicate struc- 

 ture similar to M. camura. 



Length 129, diam. 107 mm. 



Type No. 2592. 



Strombus galliformis n. sp. 



Strombus bituberculatus Lam., in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 

 1873, p. 233. Not of Lamarck. 



, Related to S. gallus L. The spire is high, with sculpture of axial 

 riblets and inconspicuous varices on the earlier whorls, changing 

 to short tubercles on the last four, the penult whorl having two 

 low, massive varices. Whorls of the spire having unequal spiral 

 striae. The last whorl has a smooth shoulder in front, three high 

 tubercles on the back, the central one largest; the whole surface 

 having widely spaced spiral ridges and fine, very weak, spiral striae. 

 Lip produced upward in an angle, smooth within; no entering wrin- 

 kles on the posterior end of columellar lip. 



Length 100, diam. 66 mm.; 9h whorls. 



In the recent S. gallus the lip is far more produced upward and it 

 spreads on the left side above the shoulder; the spiral ridges on the 

 back are coarser, and the tubercles at the shoulder more numerous. 

 The new form is more like S. peruvianus in form of the lip, but that 

 species has the throat conspicuously rugose. 



Type is No. 2582, A. N. S. P. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Strombus dominator n. sp. 



Slrombus gigas Linn., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 234. 



A species related to S. costatus {accipitri7ius) . Spire not very 

 high, the whorls having rounded tubercles on the periphery, and 

 spiral striae. The last whorl has a strong, rounded keel at the 

 shoulder, a stout, triangular tubercle in the middle of the back, 

 preceded by another on the side. There is an inferior series of small 

 tubercles, and on the latter part of the whorl, some low, coarse 

 spiral ridges. The lip spreads broadly and is much thickened 

 within. Posteriorly it extends above the apex. The throat is smooth. 



Length 88, diam. 75 mm. Length of aperture (measured from 

 end of canal to upper end of the lip) 97 mm. 



The type is an almost perfect but dwarf specimen. Several 

 fragmentary specimens are much larger, the best one about 15 cm. 

 long. The outer lip of another indicates a length of perhaps 20 cm. 

 It was apparently the mere size, rather than any close correspondence 

 of form or sculpture, which determined Gabb's reference of the form 

 to S. gigas. 



It is related to S. costatus and S. goliath, the spire being much like 

 the latter, which however, has the outer lip far more broadly expand- 

 ing, and the upper margin quite different. In S. costatus the lip 

 falls short of the height of the spire, but in S. dominator it rises 

 above the apex. 



Type No. 2579. 



Potamides gastrodon n. sp. 



The shell is rather short, conic, the whorls closely and regularly 

 sculptured with axial riblets crossed by three spiral cords, forming 

 small tubercles at the intersections. There .are a few inconspicuous 

 varices. Last whorl rises at the aperture, and has a prominent, 

 rounded varix on the left side; the cavity of the whorl at this place 

 having three well developed and a minute fourth tooth within the 

 outer wall, a fold on the parietal wall near the posterior angle, and 

 a plait on the columella. Last half of the last whorl is broken away. 

 As broken, the type measures: 



Length 22.5, diam. 11 mm. 



The type and three other broken specimens are No. 2599, A. N. S. P. 



Turritella sulcigyrata n. sp. 



Turritella planigijrata Guppy, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 240. 

 Not of Guppy. 



This species is closely related to T. gatimensis Conrad, but differs 

 by being constantly less excavated along the suture, though there is a 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April;. 



rather deep sutural channel. This leaves a broad median band in 

 strong relief on the whorls, which have spiral sculpture of spiral 

 cords and threads. The inconspicuous growth-lines arch backward. 



Length 54, diam. 13.8 mm.; 14 whorls. The specimen has lost 

 the last whorl. 



Type No. 3203, A. N. S. P. 



We have not been able to compare the type of Guppy's T. p ani- 

 gyrata, but his description and figure certainly do not support Gabb's 

 identification. Guppy has remarked, however, that his figure of 

 T. planigyrata "shows only the general shape." 



T. sulci gyrata is an abundant species. 



Turritella arata Guppy, in Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIX, p. 319,. 

 PI. 28, fig. 3 from the Oligocene of Haiti, is not contained in the 

 collections studied. 



Caecum anellifer n. n. 



Coecum annulatum Gabb, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 211 ; Journ. A. N. S. 

 Phila., VIII, p. 363, PI. 46, fig. 59. Not of Brown. 



The single specimen is not mature, but it may be recognized by 

 the sculpture. There are about 25 convex rings, more emphatic 

 posteriorly, lower anteriorly, their intervals much narrower than 

 the ribs, crossed and cut into pits by numerous low axial ribs, which 

 appear very weakly on the rings. Septum rises in a point near the 

 convex side. 



Length 1.95, cUam. 0.6 mm. 



The rings of C. crassicostum Gabb are very much stronger, the 

 intervals wider, so that, with a single example of each at hand, it 

 does not seem prudent to unite them as one species. 



Rissoa epulata n. sp. 



The shell is globose-conic and has a relatively large circular umbili- 

 cus; spire short, straightly conic, of moderately convex whorls, the 

 last whorl inflated. Sculpture of rounded vertical ribs about equal 

 to their intervals, 17 on the last whorl, diminishing and soon dis- 

 appearing after passing over the periphery. In the intercostal 

 intervals there are very low spiral cords, six above the periphery, 

 and the base has four much stronger and more separated cords. 

 A broad and thick varix strengthens the outer lip. The aperture 

 is roundly ovate; peristome continuous. 



Length 1.25, diam. 0.9 mm.; 4f whorls. 



Type No. 3167, A. N. S. P. 



The short form and large umbilicus are the chief characteristics 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



of this species. Belongs to the section Apicularia of Tryon's arrange- 

 ment. 

 Bissoa (Alvania^ proavia n. sp. 



The shell is imperforate, rather plump, conic; first 2| whorls are 

 smooth, convex, and form a somewhat acuminate summit. Following 

 whorls have latticed sculpture of rather narrow vertical ribs, which 

 pass over the periphery but are obsolete over most of the base, 

 crossed by spiral cords a little narrower than the ribs, and forming 

 small nodes at the intersections. On the penult whorl there are 

 three spiral cords, the upper one at the shoulder. On the last whorl 

 there are six spiral cords, the second from above forming the peri- 

 phery, the lower two smooth, the others passing over ribs. Some 

 very minute spiral striae are visible in the intercostal spaces. The 

 aperture is nearly circular, the lip strengthened bj^ a strong varix. 



Length 1.35, diam. 0.9 mm.; 5 whorls. 



Type No. 3169, A. N. S. P. 



This species stands close to Rissoa lipeus Dall,- but it differs by 

 the acute apex and details of sculpture. 

 Hipponix otiosa n. sp. 



The shell is oval, obliquely conic, with the apex curving backward 

 nearly over the posterior margin. The apical portion sits cap-like 

 at the summit, and is probably smooth, though somewhat worn, the 

 original surface being mostly removed. The later growth is rudely 

 ribbed radially with 14 ribs in a young specimen 5 mm. long, 

 18 in the largest specimen, about 9.3 mm. long. The ribs are wide, 

 sculptured with rather rough growth-lines, and near the periphery 

 with coarse radial striae. The border is scalloped by the ribs. 



Length about 9.3, Avidth 8, height 5.5 mm. 



Type and two other specimens are No. 2887, A. N. S. P. 

 Natica finitima n. sp. 



The shell resembles N. canrena in shape. The narrow and short 

 spire is rather acute, of 5 convex whorls. The suture is very narrowly 

 channelled; last whorl very convex throughout. Umbilicus is formed 

 as in canrena except that the spiral pillar is decidedly smaller and 

 terminates in a much smaller columellar callus. Parietal callus- 

 is heavy. The surface shows light growi;h-lines, some of which are 

 slightly stronger below the suture, but far less so than in N. canrena. 



Alt. 23.5, diam. 24 mm. (type). 

 " 23.5, " 26.2 " (largest specimen). 



2 Trans. Wagn. Inst., Ill, p. 339, PL 20, fig. 86. Pliocene of the Caloosahatchie, 

 also recent, Watling Island, Bahamas. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



This species is easily to be distinguished from N. canrena by the 

 noticeably channelled suture, absence of subsutural plication, and 

 the characters of the umbilicus. Gabb grouped them with the 

 .specimens of A'', canrena. 



The type and seven other specimens are No. 2875, A. N. S. P. 



Aclis (Amblyspira) bartschiana n. sp. 



The shell is long and slender, smooth. Nuclear whorls lost; the 

 following whorls are slightly concave, the suture prominent as a 

 sharp, low ridge; the penult whorl has an angle projecting incon- 

 spiciously just above the suture, last whorl is sharply angular in 

 front, the angle entirely disappearing on its last half. The aperture 

 is small, ovate, diagonal. Peristome continuous across the parietal 

 wall, the columella somewhat thickened, simple. 



Length 3.6, diam. 0.95, length of aperture 0.75 mm.; 10 post- 

 nuclear whorls. 



Type No. 3016, A. N. S. P. 



A characteristic little shell, named for Dr. Paul Bartch, whose 

 industry and acumen in the classification of Pyramidellidoe are bring- 

 ing order into this once chaotic group. 



Pyramidella forulata famelica n. subsp. 



The shell closely resembles P. canaliculata, but differs by its 

 narrower contour, smaller sutural channel and by having faint 

 trace? of spiral striation. Last whorl has a small peripheral carina, 

 but only the weak trace of a furrow below it. There is fine crenula- 

 tion below the suture and a narrow umibilicus bounded by a cord- 

 like fasciole. 



Length 10.5, diam. 3 mm.; 13 whorls (apex entire). 



The shell is somewhat narrower than the Bowden form which we 

 take to be the adult stage of P. forulata Guppy,^ yet a thorough 

 comparison of good series may show that there are transitions. 

 The type of forulata is, we believe, a quite young shell. 



Turbonilla (Pyrgiscus) beatula n- sp. 



Shell rather rapidly tapering, the whorls slightly prominent and 

 convex below the suture, elsewhere nearly flat, with sculpture of 

 vertical, rounded ribs about equal to the intervals, and extending 

 from suture to suture. Intervals minutely striate vertically, the 

 striae cut by incised spiral lines, of which there are eight on the 

 penult whorl. A few similar spirals may be seen on the otherwise 



3 Pyramidella forulata Guppy, in Dall, Proc. U. S. N. Mus., XIX, p. 315, PI. 

 '28, fig. 13. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



smooth base. There are nineteen ribs on the penult whorl. Aper- 

 ture somewhat trapezoidal, the columella slightly sinuous, thickened. 



Length 3.8, diam. 1, length of aperture 0.75 mm. ; 8 post-embryonic 

 whorls. 



Type No. 3026, A. N. S. P. 



Turbonilla (Pyrgiscusi santodomingensis n. sp. 



The shell tapers very slowly. Nuclear and early neanic whorls 

 wanting. The rest have rather strong, rounded, straight vertical 

 ribs, which become slightly retractive on the last two whorls, and 

 part of them continue very weakly over the base. There are 17 ribs 

 on the penult whorl. There are five (5) spiral impressed lines between 

 sutures, not crossing the summits of the ribs. On the base there are 

 about 6 spiral impressed lines, the lower three continuous. The 

 aperture is especially short; columella very strongly folded and 

 thickened. 



Length 6.4, diam. 1.35 mm.; 10| whorls remaining. 



Type No. 3034, A. N. S. P. 



Longer, more slender than T. dominicensis, with fewer ribs and 

 fewer spirals which are more deeply impressed. It differs more 

 fundamentally by the very strong columellar fold. 



Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) galeata n. sp. 



The shell is very slender, with a large helicoid nucleus; next whorl 

 sculptured with numerous ribs, subsequent whorls with fewer vertical 

 rounded ribs running from suture to suture, nearly as wide as the 

 concave intervals, which under a high power show a faint woven 

 texture. Sixteen ribs are on the penult whorl. On the last whorl 

 there is an inconspicuous spiral depression at the anterior termination 

 of the ribs. The base has some faint spiral impressed lines. The 

 aperture is ovate; columella somewhat thickened, distinctly folded 

 above. 



Length 2.9, diam. 0.55, length of aperture 0.4 mm.; 1\ post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Type No. 3028, A. N. S. P. 



Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) peraequa n- sp. 



Embryonic whorls helicoid. Subsequent whorls with sculpture 

 of numerous rounded vertical ribs equal to the concave intervals, 

 both ribs becoming weaker and terminating a little distance short 

 of the lower suture; the concave intervals also terminating there, 

 but rather abruptly. There are 22 ribs on the penult whorl. Base 

 smooth. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The aperture is ovate, columella very little thickened, somewhat 

 sinuous. 



Length 2.6, diam. 0.65, length of aperture 0.6 mm.; 6f post- 

 embryonic whorls. 



Type No. 3027, A. N. S. P. 



The spire of the nuclear shell is rather high for a snail of this 

 section. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris T) angustula n n. 



Turbonilla angusta Gabb, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 225. Not 

 Chrysallida angusta Cpr. 1864. 



The embryonic whorls are lost, with one or more of the neanic. 

 Subsequent whorls have straight, rounded, slightly protractive ribs, 

 w^hich do not reach to the lower suture, the lower ends of the concave 

 intervals abruptly limited but rounded, and showing very faint 

 traces of spiral stria, in part obsolete. On the penult whorl there 

 are 18 ribs. The rounded base has growth-lines and faint spiral 

 lines. The upper whorls are convex, later ones flattened, the suture 

 rather deeply impressed. The columella is very feebly sinuous, 

 somewhat thickened. 



Length 5.7, diam. 1.35 mm.; 10 whorls remaining. 



Type No. 3025, A. N. S. P. 



G.bb's name has been previously used in the subgenus Pyrgi sous. 

 His statement that the shell is ''without any trace of spiral lines" is 

 inexact, since faint spirals may be seen under the compound micro- 

 scope, though not visible with an ordinary hand lens. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) aratibacillum n. sp. 



The shell is small r and more slender than T. angustula, with 

 sculpture of rounded, vertica ribs extending barely to the lower 

 suture of each whorl and the periphery of the last, the lower ends 

 of the smooth intervals not sharply defined. There are 13 ribs on 

 the penult whorl. Base smooth. Columella straight, with dilated 

 edge. 



Length 3.3, diam. 0.75 mm.; 9 post-embryonic whorls. 



Type No. 3036, A. N. S. P. 



The embryonic shell is not perfect, but seems to have been of the 

 bulimoid form. The shell is less slender than T. pertenuis. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) insititia n. sp. 



The shell is extremely slender, with embryonic shell of bulimoid 

 shape; subsequent whorls at first convex, becoming flattened in the 

 lower part, sculptured with strong, rounded vertical ribs not quite 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



as wide as the smooth concave interval which do not quite extend 

 to the suture below, and terminate abruptly at the periphery. There 

 are ten ril^s on the penult whorl. Base smooth. The aperture is 

 trapezoidal; columella verj' slightly sinuous. 



Length 2.8, diam. 0.5, length of aperture 0.4 mm.; 9^ post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Type No. 3024, A. N. S. P. 



This is the most slender of the known Santo Domingan species, 

 further distinguished by its few coarse ribs. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) undecimcostata n. sp. 



The shell is slender with bulimoid nucleus; subsequent whorls 

 convex, sculptured with narrow, straight vertical ribs separated by 

 concave intervals about twice as wide as the ribs, and under strong 

 magnification showing extremely fine and faint vertical and spiral 

 striae. The concave intervals terminate rather abruptly just above 

 the suture and at the periphery. On the penult whorl there are 

 eleven ribs. The aperture is subtrapezoidal. Columella thick and 

 very slightly sinuous. 



Length 3.3, diam. 0.7, length of aperture 0.5 mm.; 9| post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Type No. 3023, A. N. S. P. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris") pertenuis Gabb. 



Turbonilla pertenuis Gabb, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226. 



An extremely slender species. Nuclear shell bulimoid; sub- 

 sequent whorls at first rather strongly convex gradually becoming 

 less convex, the lower ones somewhat flattened laterally, with sculp- 

 ture of strong, rounded vertical ribs parted by slightly wider, smooth, 

 concave intervals, the rounded lower ends of which are a little above 

 the lower suture, leaving a very narrow smooth band on each whorl. 

 There are twelve ribs on the penult whorl. Base smooth, convex, 

 the columella is thin and slightly sinuous. 



Length 4, diam. 0.7, length of aperture 0.6 mm.; 11 post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Type No. 3030, A. N. S. P. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) contexta n. sp. 



The shell is very slender with bulimoid embryo; subsequent whorls 

 convex at first, the later ones distinctly flattened, sculptured with 

 vertical rounded ribs, 15 on the penult whorl, slightly narrower than 

 the concave intervals, and extending from suture to suture. Under 

 the compound microscope the intervals are seen to have a minute 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



sculpture of vertical striae cut into beads by close spiral-lines. On 

 the last whorl the ribs and intervals do not end abruptly. The base 

 has weak spiral impressed lines. The aperture is rhombic; columella 

 thin and very slightly sinuous. 



Length 3.7, diam. 0.75, length of aperture 0.6 mm.; 9 post-nuclear 

 Avhorls. 



Type No. 3035, A. N. S. P. 



The microscopic sculpture is a distinctive feature of this species. 



Turbonilla (Tragula) egressa n. sp. 



The shell is slender, with a depressed-helicoid nuclear shell, fully 

 half immersed. Following whorls are subangular and overhang the 

 suture, and are flattened above the angle. Sculpture of rounded 

 vertical riblets as wide as their intervals on the first two whorls, but 

 gradually becoming more spaced, so that on the last 3 whorls the 

 intervals are wider. First three post-nuclear whorls have in the 

 intercostal intervals a single rounded cord on the angle, another 

 very weak one below the upper suture. On the next two whorls 

 there is an additional cord above the angle, another just above the 

 suture, and the subsutural cord is obsolete. Last whorl has the 

 vertical ribs extending nearly to the axis, the intervals crossed by a 

 spiral cord at, another above the periphery, and two strong cords on 

 the base, followed by about four faint ones, very low and difficult 

 to see. The aperture is ovate; columella thin, straight above, but 

 showing a small, sharp, oblique plait in an obliquely basal view. 



Length 2.5, diam. 0.75, length of aperture 0.65 mm.; 6^ post- 

 nuclear whorls. 



Type No. 3095. 



Odostomia (Odostomia) ingloria n. sp. 



Shell oblong-conic with obtuse summit, the first whorl convex, 

 turned down at the tip; following whorls fiat, with the suture rather 

 deeply impressed. Last whorl rounded peripherally'^, narrowly 

 rimate. Aperture ovate; columella a little thickened, bearing a small 

 oblique plait. Surface plain. 



Length 2.05, diam. 1 mm.; 5 whors. 



Type No. 3087, A. N. S. P. ^ 



An allied form, which may be called 0. ingloria calvata differs by 

 its shorter whorls, the last one noticeably subangular in front. 

 Length 2.5, diam. L05 mm.; slightly over 6 whorls. 



Type No. 3088, A. N. S. P. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179" 



Odostomia santodomingensis n. n. 



Aclis polila Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226. Not Odo- 

 stomia poliia of Bivona or of Pease. 



The form is somewhat cylinclric. The surface is marked with very 

 fine growth-Unes only. Whorls are weakly convex except the first 

 which is rather strongly so. The suture is channelled, the whorl 

 being excavated above it, narrowly horizontal and carinate close 

 below. There is a very slight median prominence of the columella, 

 hardly noticeable. The tip of the spire is turned in, nucleus 

 immersed. The aperture is rather oblique. 



Length 2.6, diam. 0.9 mm.; 6 whorls. 



T>T)e No. 3084, A. N. S. P. 



This species and the following one scarcely agree with the charac- 

 ters of Spiroclimax, and the channelled suture appears to remove 

 them from typical Odostomia. They seem to form a new subgenus 

 of Odostomia. As Doctor Bartsch has a general work on east x\meri- 

 can Pyramidellidce under way, we prefer to leave the final classifica- 

 tion in his able hands. 



A second specimen is more solid than the figured type but otherwise 

 similar. 

 Odostomia myrmecoon n. sp. 



The shell is structurally very similar to 0. santodomingensis, from 

 which it differs by the shorter, more obese outline and the slightly 

 sinuous columella. 



Length 2.25, diam. 1 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Type No. 3085, A. N. S. P. 



Odostomia (Eulimastoma) pyrgulopsis n. sp. 



The shell is openly perforate, long-conic, solid, marked with faint 

 gro"wth-lines only. (Nuclear whorls presumably immersed), the 

 first rounded above, turned in at the tip; following whorls fiat, 

 separated by a narrowly channelled suture, caused by the revolution 

 of the suture just below a peripheral angle; on the last two whorls 

 the suture descends more, leaving the peripheral angle, projecting 

 prominently. It weakens on the latter part of the last whorl. The 

 margin of the umbilical opening is rounded. Aperture is ovate. 

 Columella thin, concave, having a small, obliquely receding plait 

 above. 



Length 1.8, diam. 0.7 mm.; 6| whorls. 



Type No. 3092, A. N. S. P. 



There is considerable variation in the degree of descent of the last 

 two whorls, and the point where the more rapid descent begins. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



In some shells the penult whorl does not descend more rapidly than 

 those preceding it. This gives the shell a contour somewhat different. 



This little shell resembles Pyrgulopsis in shape. It also has much 

 in common with Aclis (Amhlyspira) 'prominens Guppy of the Bowden 

 bed, but we can find no columellar plait in that species, which more- 

 over is decidedly larger. 

 Odostomia (Eulimastoma) bathyraphe n. sp. 



The shell resembles 0. pyrgulopsis in umbilicus, surface and 

 general appearance, but differs as follows: The last whorl is more 

 strongly carinate; the whole shell is wider, summit more obtuse, 

 whorls less numerous. The tip of the first whorl is turned in, nuclear 

 whorls being presumably wholly immersed. The suture is deeply 

 channelled from its beginning. 



Length 1.5, diam. 0.8 mm.; 4| whorls. 



Type No. 3091, A. N. S. P. 



As in 0. pyrgulopsis, the columellar plait appears much larger in 

 an oblique view than in the face view drawn in the figures. 

 Odostomia (Evalea?) vexator n. sp. 



The shell is somewhat cylindric but tapers slowly upwards to a 

 very obtuse summit, which turns in at the tip, the nuclear whorls 

 being immersed. Subsequent whorls are flattened, excavated above 

 the suture, very narrowly shouldered below it, with sculpture of 

 fine lines of growth and numerous (about 15 on the penult whorl) 

 unequally spaced, very low and relatively coarse spiral striae. The 

 aperture is somewhat rhombic; columella thin, with a strong, short 

 plait. 



Length 1.9, diam. 0.6 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Type No. 3086, A. N. S. P. 



By Doctor Bartsch's key we bring this species into the subgenus 

 Evalea. The deeply excavated suture and somewhat coarser spiral 

 sculpture are differential characters, the suture, summit and general 

 shape of the shell agreeing with 0. santodoniingensis. We are there- 

 fore in doubt as to its subgeneric place. The columellar plait shows 

 fully only in a somewhat oblique view, as it recedes somewhat. 



Besides the tj^pe and a broken specimen, there is a larger shell, 

 length 2.2, diam. 0.75 mm., otherwise similar. 



Odostomia (Goniodostomia) superans n. sp. 



The shell is imperforate, oblong-conic, terminating in a very 

 obtuse summit. Embryonic whorls immersed. First visible whorl 

 is strongly convex, its initial part ascending. Following whorls are 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



flat, separated by a channelled suture, angular above and below it, 

 the lower angle becoming more prominent on the penult whorl, 

 forming a keel which continues at the periphery of the last whorl, 

 which is rather strongly concave above it, and slightly so below. 

 The surface is marked with faint growth-lines and many unequal 

 spiral striae. The aperture is ovate, somewhat oblique; columella 

 thick, bearing a stout oblique plait above. 



Length 1.85, diam. 0.9, length of aperture 0.6 mm.; very nearly 

 5 whorls. 



Type No. 3096, A. N. S. P. 



This species is related to 0. circumvinda, but is wider, with a 

 stronger peripheral carina, a stronger columellar plait, and not so 

 many whorls. 



The spiral sculpture is indicated rather than drawn in the figures 

 of this species and the next. The spiral strise are very low, rounded, 

 unequal and unevenly spaced, but somewhat coarse and barely 

 visible with a good hand lens. 



As it cannot readily be fitted into any of the sections of Odostomia, 

 we propose the new section Goniodostomia, for Odostomias without 

 axial ribs, having a peripheral keel and spiral striation, the columellar 

 plait emerging, nucleus wholly immersed. Type 0. superans. 



Odostomia (Goniodostomia) circumvinota n. sp. 



The shell is rimate, slowly tapering to the obtuse summit, the 

 embryonic whorls immersed, first visible whorl convex, turned in at 

 the tip; subsequent whorls flat, narrowly excavated above and nar- 

 rowly shouldered below the suture, which is therefore deeply chan- 

 nelled; last whorl angular or subcarinate at the periphery. Sculpture 

 of faint growth-lines and rather sparse unequal, low, spiral strise. 

 Aperture ovate; columella thin, bearing a short fold above. 



Length 1.75, diam. 0.65, aperture 0.5 mm.; 5f whorls. 



Type No. 3097, A. N. S. P. 



Somewhat like 0. vexator, but the suture is decidedly more chan- 

 nelled and the last whorl is carinate. In shape but not in sculpture 

 it resembles the subgenus Eulimastoma. It is more slender than 

 0. superans. 



Odostomia (Parthenina 1) cyclocephala n. sp. 



Shell lanceolate, thin, with a large helicoid nucleus of 1| whorls; 



subsequent whorls sculptured with small vertical ribs narrower than 



their intervals, becoming obsolete at the periphery; over ribs and 



intervals there are delicately engraved spiral lines, of which 17 may 



13 




1^2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF (April, 



be counted on the penult whorl. The whole base is closely, finely 

 striate spirally. Aperture is long-ovate, acute above, the columella 

 with a small but distinct fold. 



Length 2.6, diam. 0.6 mm.; 5| post-nuclear whorls. 



Type No. 3033, A. N. S. P. 



This species has a spirally striate base, as in the subgenus Besla 

 of Dall & Bartsch, but it has not the special sculpture above the 

 'periphery described for the species of that group. 



Odostomia (Odostomidea) bartschiana u. sp. 



The shell is oblong, with a rounded nucleus more than half im- 

 mersed. Subsequent whorls have few strong ribs, about 13 on the 

 first post-nuclear whorl, not so many on the next, where they are 

 slightly protractive; eight vertical ribs on the last whorl. Intercostal 

 spaces very wide, concave, showing most minute spiral striae in 

 some places. Suture somewhat sinuated by the ribs. The ovate 

 aperture has a continuous peristome, the columella bearing a strong 

 central plait. 



Length 2, diam. 0.7 mm.; 4^ post-nuclear whorls. 



Type No. 3032, A. N. S. P 



The very small number of ribs with wide intervals appears to 

 indicate a section of subgenus distinct from Odostomella B. D. & D., 

 which may be called Odostomidea. 



Odostomia (Chrysallida) dulcis n- sp. 



Meneslho dathrata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226. Not 

 Odostomia dathrata Jeffreys, Ann. Mag. N. H. II, 1848, p. 345. 



The nucleus is more than half immersed. Subsequent whorls are 

 convex, with a deeply impressed suture. Sculpture of numerous 

 rounded vertical ribs equal to their intervals, gradually fading out 

 at the periphery of the last whorl. These ribs are crossed by six 

 slightly smaller spiral cords between sutures; the intersections are 

 not noticeably nodose. On the base there are seven cords, and there 

 they are broader and more crowded their intervals narrow. The 

 aperture is long-ovate. Columella concave and a little thickened 

 below, passing into a moderate fold above. 



Length 2.9, diam. 1, length of aperture 1 mm.; 5 post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Melanella astuta n. n. 



Eulirna robusta Gabb, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 227. Not of 

 A. Adams, 1861. 



The shell is very slightly curved, smooth and glossy, the whorls 

 nearly flat, rather short, showing a bluish-gray band above the 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



middle; suture distinct, liut slightly oblique. Aperture short, 

 piriform, the columella strongly thickened. 



Length 4.2, diani. 1.2, length of aperture 1.1 nun.; 12 whorls. 



Type No. 3009, A. X. S. P. 



Melanella gabbiana n. sp. 



The shell is straight, smooth and glossy, of barely convex whorls, 

 the suture rather indistinct. There is an impressed protractive 

 groove on the penult whorl, left by a former peristome. Aperture 

 narrowly ovate. Outer lip sinuous, protractive. Columella strongly 

 thickened. 



Length 4.2, diam. 1.25, length of aperture 1.2 mm.; 11 whorls. 



Type No. 3012, A. N. S. P. 



Though of nearly the same dimensions as M. astuta, this species 

 differs in shape. 



Strombiformis sarissiformis n. n. 



Eulima acicularis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 227. Not 

 of A. Adams, 1861. 



The shell is slender, the diameter contained about 5 times in the 

 length. Whorls of the spire nearly flat, smooth except for several 

 unequally spaced growth-arrest marks on each. Aperture very 

 narrow, lanceolate. Columella thickened. The tip of the spire 

 and the outer lip are broken. 



Length 12, diam. 2.2, length of aperture 3.3 mm.; 12 whorls. 



T\Te No. 3010, A. N. S. P. 

 Strombiformis praelubrica n. sp. 



Very slender, the diameter contained about 4| times in the length, 

 whorls hardly convex, very smooth, but showing faintly a few 

 marks of growth-arrest. Aperture narrow, lanceolate, acuminate 

 above Outer lip receding slightly downward. Columella rather 

 strongly thickened. 



Length 5.1, diam. 1.1, length of aperture 1.4 mm.; 11 whorls. 



T\T)e No. 3011, A. N. S. P. 



Strombiformis ischnon n. sp. 



The shell is very similar to M. prcelubrica, but differs by its more 

 slender shape, the diameter contained five times in the length. 

 The aperture is narrower, and the columella more thickened. 



Length 4.1, diam. 0.8, length of aperture 1.1 mm.; 10 whorls. 



Type No. 3013, A. N. S. P. 



Strombiformis (Subularia) stimulus n. sp. 

 The shell is minute, acuminate, showing very delicate, forwardly 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



arched growth-lines and several slightly impressed lines of growth- 

 arrest. Whorls moderately convex. Suture distinctly impressed, 

 oblique. Aperture lanceolate, the columella a little thickened and 

 straightened. 



Length 1.6, diam. 0.6, length of aperture 0.6 mm.; 7 whorls. 



Type No. 3093, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is pale gray with a rather wide opaque white band below 

 the suture. Probably belongs to the genus or subgenus Subularia. 

 The lines of growth-arrest are all sublateral. 



Astrsea domingensis n. sp. 



Aslralium longispinum Lam., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 242. 



A species resembling A. americana in shape. The flat whorls have 

 sculpture of numerous (about 9) low spiral cords, and extremely 

 numerous, fine and low, protractive riblets. At the periphery there 

 are slender, straight spines projecting above the suture, about 10 

 on the last whorl. Height and diameter about 16 mm. as preserved. 



Type No. 2827, A. N. S. P. 



The specimen is an external mould of the spire, or part of it, in a 

 hard rock. It differs so conspicuously from A. longispina that we 

 are surprised at Gabb's identification. The spines, on the next to 

 the last whorl preserved, are slightly over 2 mm. long. It appears 

 to be somewhat related to Astralium chipolanum Dall. 



Circulus domingensis n. n. 



Cydostrema striata Gabh, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 242. Not 

 Circulus striatus Phil. 



Eight spiral threads may be counted on the penult whorl just 

 behind the aperture, seven on the next earlier whorl. On the last 

 whorl the cords become widely separated by flat intervals on the 

 upper surface, are weak and inconspicuous at and a short distance 

 above the periphery, but remain strong and regular on the base. 



Alt. 2.25, diam. 4.8 mm. 



Though larger than the recent species of Circulus, with the spire a 

 little more raised, we can find no differences of generic importance. 



Type No. 2835. 



Discopsis (■?) naso n. n. 



Adeorbis carinata Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 243. Not 

 A. carinata A. Ad., 1863. 



The first two whorls are convex above; the third is flattened below 

 the suture, the flat area bounded by an angle, and a second, less 

 conspicuous spiral angulation runs above the periphery. The 

 penult whorl is rounded, but shows the top of the peripheral carina 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



in the suture. Last whorl is convex above and below the acutely 

 carinate periphery, and a carina also bounds the umbilicus. The 

 peripheral carina has numerous little prominences, inconspicuous 

 and regularly spaced. On the base there are unequal radial wrinkles 

 around the umbilicus. The aperture is somewhat oblique and the 

 peristome projects forward in a point at the periphery. 



Alt. 2.7, diam. 4.5 mm.; diam. of umbilicus 0.9 mm.; 5 whorls. 



The generic place of this species is doubtful. 



Type No. 2832. 



Dentalium sagittarii n. sp. 



The shell is smooth, almost circular in section, but slightly flattened 

 between concave and convex sides, rather strongly and evenly bent, 

 very slowly increasing in size, the greatest diameter contained about 

 twelve times in the length. Not sculptured, but very oblique 

 growth-lines are discernable. 



Length 13, greatest (lateral) diameter 1.1, antero-posterior diameter 

 1 mm. 



This species is more arched than D. macilentum, which is compressed 

 from side to side. D. schumoi differs by its close annulation. 



Leda extricata n. n. 



Leda acuta Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 25,5. Not of Conrad, 

 1832. 



The shell is rather plump with nearly median beaks and acuminate 

 posterior end, polished, strongly and closely sculptured with even, 

 blunt-edged concentric riblets, equal to their smooth intervals. On 

 the rather large escutcheon, which is indistinctly defined by a slight 

 furrow, the riblets are a little sinuous, slightly emphasized at the 

 sinuation, close and straight near the hinge-line. The lanceolate 

 lunule has a series of short, oblique folds, stronger and more spaced 

 than the adjacent riblets. Rostrum acute, slightly recurved. 



Hinge with long and acute V-shaped teeth, 15 in the anterior, 

 about 20 in the posterior series. 



Length 8.7, alt. 5, diam. 4 mm. 



Type No. 2655, A. N. S. P. 



This abundant species is longer than L. pelteUa DalV with a longer 

 rostrum and quite different lunule and escutcheon. 



Leda pelteUa was based upon (1) the figure of a specimen from 

 Bowden, and (2) L. acuta Gabb not Conrad. As the figure is a more 

 concrete indication than the second reference, we restrict L. pelteUa 



* Trans. Wagn. Inst., Ill, p. q79, PL 32, fig. 5. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



to the Bowden shell. Gabb's L. acuta is certainly a distinct species, 

 as we have ascertained by the examination of over a hundred examples 

 of each. 



It is related to L. dodona Dall, which differs in several details of 

 form and sculpture. 



Area (Scapharca) sobrina n. n. 



Area consobrina Sowerby, Q. Jour. Geol. Soc, VI, 1849, p. 52, PI. X, fig. 



12. Not A. consobrina Orbigny, 1843, or of Guppy. 

 A. (Anadara) consobrina Shy., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 253. 



The shell is nearly equivalve, oblong, strongly inflated, tapering 

 posteriorly, the anterior end somewhat oblique. Beaks moderate, 

 mesially impressed, situated at about the anterior fourth of the 

 length. The cardinal area is rather narrow, marked by several 

 concentric grooves. The left valve is slightly larger, with sculpture 

 of 33 rather high ribs with abrupt sides. Except on the posterior 

 dorsal slope the ribs are closely sculptured with transverse granules, 

 which are continued as thin raised striae over the intervals. The 

 anterior and posterior ribs are divided by a groove along the summits. 

 The right valve is similar, but the granules on the ribs are almost 

 obsolete. The hinge has 29 teeth in front, 40 behind, the row being 

 continuous except for a small irregularity. Border very deeply 

 crenated. 



Length 50, alt. 30, diam. 29 mm. 



" 48, " 30, " of right valve, 14 mm. 



Cotypes No. 2737, A. N. S. P. 



Area actinophora Dall has more ribs, is narrower posteriorly, and 

 differs in proportions. A. sohrina is not very closely related to 

 A. halidonata Dall of the Jamaican (Bowden) Oligocene, which we 

 have not found in the Santo Domingan collection. It is very much 

 like A. dariensis Brn. & Pils., but the valves are more convex and 

 the details of rib sculpture differ. It also is a larger species. 



Area (Scapharca) copiosa n. sp. 



The shell is oblong, somewhat trapezoidal, strongly inflated. 

 Left valve slightly larger. Beaks impressed in the middle, in front 

 of the anterior fourth. Cardinal area moderately wide, marked with 

 about 4 grooves on the anterior, 5 or 6 on the posterior part. Sculp- 

 ture of 30 ribs, in the left valve about equal to the deep intervals; 

 at the anterior end the ribs have flat, or somewhat concave summits. 

 Both ribs and interstices are crossed by fine, close concentric threads, 

 which give place to mere growth-lines on the posterior area, where 

 the ribs weaken. The right valve is like the left except that the 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



concentric threads are not quite so well developed. Tooth-row 

 continuous, but an enlarged tooth separates the anterior series of 

 30 teeth from the posterior series of 36; the length of the two being 

 as 3 : 4, or as 2 : 3. Margins are deeply fluted, as usual. 



Length 60, alt. 37, diam. 36.5 mm. 



Type No. 2731, A. N. S. P. 



This shell is related to A . halidonata, but it is much narrower, the 

 ribs are not grooved and not so numerous, the beaks are smaller, 

 the cardinal area has more grooves, etc. In ^4. anliquata L. the 

 beaks are turned forward less, the anterior angle is more produced, 

 and the cardinal area has fewer grooves. Both A. halidonata and 

 A. antiquata have impressed lines or grooves along the posterior 

 ribs, in large examples, which are wanting in A. copiosa. 

 Area (Scapharca) devexa n. sp. 



The shell is somewhat trapezoidal, much inflated, with wide, 

 moderately prominent beaks which are widely separated by a rather 

 wide, fiat cardinal area. Anterior and posterior ends oblique, roughly 

 parallel, the anterior convex, posterior somewhat straightened; basal 

 margin strongly convex. Sculpture of 26 square ribs somewhat nar- 

 rower than their intervals, unevenly granose, the granules transverse, 

 subobsolete in places, and on the posterior ribs weaker on the right 

 valve, some of the anterior ribs are bifid in the left valve. Intervals 

 sharply striated transversely. The cardinal area has many regular 

 grooves over the whole poster'or part, but anteriorly only the central 

 part is grooved, the sides being smooth. The anterior end of the 

 hinge line is strongly angular. Tooth-row continuous. 



Length 42, alt. 30, diam. 31 mm. 



Type No. 2727, A. N. S. P. Valves of 5 other individuals. 



This species has a characteristic form. The close, regular grooves 

 of the cardinal area, which has smooth sides anteriorly, is also 

 notable. 

 Area (Soapharoa) intumulata n. sp. 



The shell is somewhat trapezoidal, inflated, with mesially impressed, 

 beaks slightly before the anterior fourth. Cardinal area rather 

 narrow, with a few grooves, bounded by a narrow ridge. Sculpture, 

 in left valve, of 35 ribs about as wide as their intervals, crossed by 

 concentric threads which are slender in the intervals, widened on 

 the ribs. The right valve is like the left except that the concentric 

 sculpture is slightly weaker. A few of the anterior ribs have a 

 central sulcus. Hinge rather narrow, the tooth-row continuous, 

 of 23 and 29 teeth. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Length 32, alt. 19, diam. of left valve 9 mm. (type). 

 " 33.5, " 20, " '' " " 11.25 " 



Type No. 2859, A. N. S. P. 



Besides a number of valves agreeing with the above description, 

 there are two entirely similar except that they have 32 ribs. 

 Area (Scapharca) proletaria n. sp. 



Shell oblong-trapezoidal, wider posteriorly, inflated, with rather 

 large umbones, beaks at the anterior fourth. Cardinal area very 

 narrow^ and bounded by a narrow ridge posterior of the beaks, wider 

 and triangular in front of them. Ends of the hinge line angular. 

 Anterior end rounded, posterior oblique. Sculpture of 35 ribs 

 about equal to the furrows, in the left valve closely granose except 

 on the posterior slope; interstices sharply but irregularly striate 

 transversely. Right valve with some of the anterior ribs partly 

 granose. Hinge with a continuous row of 15 + 31 teeth. Margin 

 fluted. 



Length of left valve 30, alt. 21, diam. 10 mm. 



Type No. 2965, A. N. S. P. 



There are 4 right and 4 left valves of this species, not paired. It 

 is a decidedly broader shell than the preceding species but otherwise 

 related. 

 Area dolaticosta n. sp. 



The shell is extremely plump, almost equilateral, and equivalve. 

 The ends of the hinge are slightly produced ; posterior margin some- 

 what straightened, anterior and basal margins rounded. Beaks 

 very prominent and full. Cardinal area broad (almost wholly 

 concealed by hard shale). Sculpture of 25 high ribs bearing rather 

 large, irregular nodes lengthened in the direction of the ribs. It is 

 similar in right and left valves. 



Length 65, alt. 63, diam. 66 mm. 



Type No. 2738, A. N. S. P., from the shale of Chiriqui collected 

 by Dr. John Evans. 



Two specimens of this very distinct ark were found with the lot 

 of A. chiriquiensis. The shape and sculpture are characteristic. 



The shale bed at Chiriqui may perhaps be equivalent to the lower 

 or lignitic bed at Tower N on the Canal and therefore Oligocene. 



Area chiriquiensis, Gabb, is probably A. patrica, Sowb. A. grandis 

 also occurs in Santo Domingo. 

 Area (Scapharca) eoccopleura n. sp. 



A small, very obese nearly equivalve species with the postbasal 

 angle somewhat produced, a rounded angle running to it, the beaks 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



full and prominent, curving well forward, at about the anterior 

 fourth of the hinge line. Sculpture of 25 ribs, those of the left 

 valve all closely granose, the grains rounded on the convexity, 

 transverse towards the lower margin. Intervals sharply and finely 

 striate transversely. On the anterior end the ribs are wider and more 

 spaced. The right valve is similar except that it is very slightly 

 smaller, and the granulation is weaker on and near the posterior 

 ridge. Cardinal area is rather wide, with several concentric angulated 

 grooves. Hinge line is rather short, with about 44 teeth. 



Length 20.5, alt. 19.5, diam. 19 mm. 



" 23.5, " 22, " of left valve 12 mm. 



Type No. 2734, A. N. S. P. 



This prettily sculptured species, known from numerous specimens, 

 stands near A. santarosana Dall, but it differs by the smaller number 

 of ribs, the anterior ones not being mesially grooved. Area alcima 

 Dall of the Pliocene has more ribs. In A. rhomhea Hanley, A. chem- 

 nitzi Phil, and A. piUieri Dall, of the Pleistocene and recent faunas, 

 the beaks turn forward less than in A. coccopleura. 

 Area tolepia saxea n. subsp. 



The shell is decidedly narrower than A. tolepia, but with sub- 

 stantially the same sculpture; 33 ribs. 



Length 31, alt. 24, diam. 23.3 mm. 



Type No. 2742, A. N. S. P. 



It is less abundant in the collection than A. tolepia. 



Area tolepia scapularis n. subsp. 



The posterior end is straightened, angular and somewhat produced 

 above, subangular below, 33 ribs. 



Length 29, alt. 22.5, diam. 21 mm. 



Type No. 2739, A. N. S. P. • 



Area tolepia erassicardinis n. subsp. 



Similar to the typical form except that the hinge is very thick, 

 32 ribs. 



Length 30, alt. 27, diam. 26 mm. 



T\T3e No. 2747, A. N. S. P. 



Area cyclica n. sp. 



Shell subcircular, plump, very thick, equivalve, with rather 

 prominent nearly contiguous beaks at the anterior third of the length. 

 Cardinal area extremely narrow behind the beaks, short but broader 

 and triangular in front, with about two grooves. Posterior end 

 broader than the anterior, an angle at its junction with the hinge 




190 PROCEEDESGS OF THE AC.U)EMT OF [April, 



line. Ribs 35, about as wide as the inten-als, granose in the left 

 valve, the graniilation obsolete in the posterior half of the right 

 valve. Teeth 13 and 34. an irregularity where the anterior and 

 posterior series meet. Edge fluted as usual. 



Length 19.5, alt. 17.5. diam. 16.5nim.:35ribs (tj-pe). 



Length 22.3, alt. 22, diam. of right valve 9.5 mm.: 33 ribs '^largest 

 valve; . 



Type No. 2964, A. X. .S. P. 



This species is much less obhque than -.4. tolepia, and approaches 

 more to a circular shape. It is known by 5 valves and one pair. 

 The valves are remarkably thick. 

 Area perfaceta d. sp. 



The shell is nearly equivalve. inequilateral with large, inflated 

 beaks at the anterior fourth: extremely globose. Lower-basal angle 

 a httle produced. Sculpture, in the left valve of 24 ribs about as 

 wide as their inter^'als, and ever^-where closely granose. Right 

 valve having the ribs much narrower than their inter^'als, smooth 

 in the median part, granose at the ends. Hinge rather short, with 

 13 teeth before, 25 behind an irregularity below the beaks. Margins 

 deeply fluted. 



Length 20.5. alt. 21.5, diam. of left valve 11.3 mm. 



T>-pe No. 2726, A. X. .-. P. 



A much smaller, more obese Argina than -4. tolepia. The nine 

 valves in the collection belonged to as many indi^'iduals. The 

 sculpture is particularly pleasing. 



Area pomponiana n sp 



The shell is rather thin, inflated, ver^' inequilateral, the beaks 

 inflated, cur^-ing strongly forward, between the anterior fifth and 

 sixth of the length. Cardinal area narrow and tapering behind the 

 beaks, verj- short and wider in front, marked with one or two angu- 

 lated grooves. Posterior end sloping, produced below. Sculpture 

 of the left valve, 28 ribs widei: than their inters'als, and even.-where 

 closely set with transverse granules. Right valve with the ribs 

 narrower, about equal to the inter\'als, flat-topped and rather low 

 and smooth except at the ends, where the}' are granose. Hinge 

 slender, with many fine teeth. 



Length 16. alt. 14.25, diam. of left valve 7.3 mm. 

 •• 19. ■• 15. " •• right •' 9 " 



Cotj-pes No. 2725. A. N. S. P. 



Thinner, more oblique than the preceding species, and differing in 

 details of sculpture. Five valves belong to as many indi\-iduals. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Area cuneolns n. sp. 



The shell is thin, wedge-shaped, the anterior end short and verv' 

 narrow, the posterior end very wide; beaks small, very convex the 

 convexity narrow; situated at the anteriortwo-fifths, turning somewhat 

 backward. Cardinal area small, not distinctly defined. Sculpture 

 of the convex and posterior parts of the shell of radial flattened, 

 partly bifid ribs alternat ng with narrow riblets, all roughened by 

 transverse granules; the anterior part of the shell having fine riblets 

 and minute concentric threads. Hinge narrow, the tooth-row con- 

 tinuous, of about 27 teeth, a group of very- small ones under the beaks. 



Length 8.8. greatest width 6.25, diam. of left valve 3 mm. 



This peculiar species has a general resemblance in shape to Mac- 

 rodon asperula Dall, Area (CuciiUaria) endemica Dall, and Area 

 culebrensis Smith. It differs widely from them in sculpture. We 

 know of no nearly related species. 

 Area idiodon n. sp. 



The cast is oblong, slightly wider posteriorly, with the beaks very 

 close to the anterior end, full and prominent, and so near together 

 that the beaks of the shell must be closeh' contiguous. Hinge-line, 

 as indicated by a narrow ridge in the cast, is gently arcuate from the 

 posterior end nearly to the beaks. Just below and anterior to the 

 beaks it bends rather deeply downwards and the teeth, as indicated 

 in the cast, are comparatively large. There seems to be about seven 

 of these enlarged teeth in the short, do"WTiwardly-ciirved anterior arc. 

 Inunediately behind this arc there is a space where the teeth seem 

 to have been very small and irregular. The rest of the hinge seems 

 to have had moderately small, regular teeth, indicated by crenula- 

 tions in the cast. The lateral surfaces of the cast has low, irregular 

 concentric waves and numerous ver^' shallow radial impressions. 

 The anterior border is distinctly crenulated, but elsewhere the 

 internal borders of the valves would appear t-o have been smooth. 



Length 69.6, alt. 48, diam. 38 mm. 



Quarry near Wilmington, North Carolina. Type Xo. 12475, 

 A. X. S. P., collected by Mr. Joseph Willcox. 



This peculiar ark differs widely from all Tertiary species knowTi to 

 us. The double curve of the tooth-row, with enlarged teeth on its 

 short anterior arc, is a more specialized structure than we have found 

 in the species compared. The recent A. eampeehensis Dillw. ameri- 

 eana Gray, approaches nearer to A. idiodon than any other known 

 to us. 



Besides the peculiar hinge, this species is notable for its strongly 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



anterior, contiguous beaks, the absence or weakness of crenulation 

 along the basal margin, and the concentric waves of the surface of 

 the cast. The shell when found will probably prove to be thin 

 for an Area. Its strong individuality will permit ready recognition 

 of this species, which we know from a single quite perfect cast. 



Glycymeris santodomingensis n. sp. 



Axincea sericata Reeve, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 255. 



The orbicular shell is rather convex, solid; anterior end broadly 

 rounded, the posterior end more narrowly so. Sculpture of 22 convex 

 ribs, widest in the middle and anteriorly, much narrower on the 

 posterior third. Hinge broad, with 10 anterior and 13 posterior 

 teeth; median teeth subobsolete; sulci of the lower margin extremely 

 shallow, almost obsolete. Posterior adductor scar bounded by an 

 acute ridge anteriorly. 



Length and alt. 37, semidiameter 11 mm. 



Type No. 2654, A. N. S. P. 



Gabb identified this species with a little knowm recent form, which 

 differs in number of ribs, etc. In G. lloydsmithi P. & B. the ribs are 

 much flatter, the hinge more curved, and the internal margin has 

 strong V-shaped teeth. 



Glycymeris dilfidentiae n. sp. 



Axincea pennacea Lam., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc., XV, 1873, p. 255. 



The shell is slightly inequilateral, rather convex, the posterior end 

 more narrowly rounded and more produced than the anterior. 

 Sculpture of low but distinct radial ribs in the median part, obsolete 

 at the ends; over all are fine radial striae, about six striae (five to seven) 

 between crests of the ribs; these are crossed by regular but extremely 

 minute concentric striae, which pit the grooves between the radial 

 striae, when the surface is unworn. Hinge is little curved, with tooth- 

 row of 14, 15 teeth. The margin has rather strong, short teeth. 



Length 20, alt. 16.7, semidiameter 7 mm. (type). 



" 21, " 18.7, " 7 " (largest valve). 



Type No. 2653, A. N. S. P., with 11 other valves. 



The Bowden G. jamaicensis has a decidedly different sculpture, 

 and fewer much larger teeth in specimens of the same size. The 

 recent G. lineatus (Reeve) has much the same sculpture, but it differs 

 in the teeth and in outline. 



Ostrea bolus n. sp. 



The shell is small, usually subtriangular, the deep valve having 

 the beak strongly curved as in some Gryphaeas, exterior with a few 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



irregular ribs which do not affect the margin (and are sometimes 

 wanting). Cardinal area oblique; no crenulation of the margins 

 near the hinge or elsewhere. Upper valve with the beak oblique, 

 cardinal area rather long. 



Greatest length (alt.) 33, width 27 mm. 



Type No. 2633, A. N. S. P., from between Las Caobas and Thom- 

 onde, Haiti, collected by Mr. Lloyd B. Smith, 1914. 



Anomia gabbi n. sp. 



Anomia ephippium Linn., Gabb. 



Very similar to the European A. ephippium. Externally the 

 convex value has a coarse sculpture of radial ribs, with radial 

 riblets and striae in the intervals. The byssal impressions are dis- 

 tinctly but not deeply impressed, but sufficiently to be readily seen 

 or felt. Major impression somewhat square; minor impression close 

 below it and not greatly smaller. Adductor inpression alongside 

 the minor byssal scar, not lower down. The shell is orbicular, and 

 somewhat stronger than A. ephippium or A. simplex. Alt. 48 mm. 



T>T3e No. 2642, A. N. S. P. 



There is the fragment of another valve, having the external sculp- 

 ture less uneven though equally coarse. 



Fecten plurinominis n. sp. 



Peden oxygonum Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 256. 



Not of Sowerby. 

 Peden thetidis Sowerby, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., Ill, p. 714. Not of 



Sowerby. 



In this scallop there are 19 rounded ribs a little wider than their 

 intervals, over ribs and intervals there are weak radial cords bearing 

 thin scales, near the edge of the left valve there are three of these 

 scaly cords upon each rib and three in each interval. Submargins 

 and ears with numerous small ribs. Ctenolium is rather long. The 

 right valve is slightly more convex than the left. 



Length and alt. 31 mm. 



Type No. 3236, A. N. S. P. 



This species resembles the recent P. fuscopurpurea Conrad in 

 sculpture, but the ribs are not so strong and the ears are much 

 smaller. In our opinion it cannot be either P. oxygonum or P. 

 thetidis of Sowerby. Whether it is specifically separable from 

 several forms found in the Canal Zone and Costa Rica is uncertain, 

 but there are various differences which indicate at least racial dis- 

 tinction. Typical specimens occur in some abundance in the Bowden 

 bed also. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Pecten uselmae n. sp. 



Peden incequalis Sowerby, Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, XXII, 1866, p. 294, 

 PL 18, fig. 6. Not of Sowerby. 



The shell is inequilateral, inequivalve, the left valve is larger, 

 conspicuously surpassing the right throughout the lower margin and 

 ends It is strongly convex; the right valve weakly so. Sculpture 

 of 17 rounded ribs. In the left valve these are wider than the 

 intervals, which are deeply cut, with concave bottoms, which are 

 closely sculptured with delicate transverse threads. In the right 

 valve the ribs are lower, and not quite as wide as the intervals, in 

 which the transverse striation is often weak. The submargins are 

 smooth. Ears with several ribs. Ctenolium is very short, of three 

 teeth, which are small in adult shells. Cardinal crura strong, 

 vertically striate. 



Length of left valve 28, alt. 27.3, diam. 8.25 mm. 



Type No. 11124, A. N. S. P., from Bowden, Jamaica, collected 

 by Mr. Uselma C. Smith. 



This species is noticed here because it has been identified as P. 

 incequalis Sowb. of Santo Domingo. It differs from that by having 

 fewer, stronger ribs in the left valve and more strongly ribbed ears. 

 The left valve is more convex, and the form more inequalateral. 

 Having seen large series of both, we find these differences constant. 

 It is not represented in our Santo Domingan collections. 



Pecten (Amusium ?) correctus n. sp. 



Pecten opercularis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 256. 



The shell is orbicular, weakly convex, with sculpture of 21 extremely 

 low, weakly convex ribs, over which growth-lines are visible. Ears 

 plain, subequal, separated from the rest of the valve by undercut 

 grooves. 



Alt. 52, semidiameter about 6.5 mm. 



Type No. 2781, A. N. S. P. 



Pecten ischnon n. sp. 



The shell is delicate, very thin, much compressed, inequilateral, 

 the right valve slightly more convex. Sculpture of 19 very low 

 rounded ribs, and extremely delicate, fine and close concentric 

 striation, strongest between the ribs. Ears rather large, with a few 

 delicate riblets in the right valve. The left valve has 5 strong, 

 crenulated ribs on the posterior ear. Ctenolium w^ell developed. 

 Both valves are strongly furrowed radially inside, the edges of the 

 intervening elevations a little raised, thickened. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Length of right valve 23, alt. 23, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Type No. 2780, A. N. S. P. 



The collection contains five left and si.\ right valves. 



Crenella diuturna n. sp. 



CreneUa divaricata d'Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 252. 



The shell is small, rounded-oval, resembling C. duplinensis Dall, 

 but differing by the somewhat greater inflation, and by having 

 regularly spaced, concentric threads over the rather fine divaricate 

 ribbing. Hinge much more delicate than in C. divaricata (Orb.); 

 crenulation of the valve-margins short and very weak. 



Length 1.85, alt. 2.3, diam. 1.5 mm. 



The line of divarication is well out of the median line. Several 

 A^alves agree in characters of form and sculpture. 



CreneUa rota n. sp. 



The shell is rather convex, almost circular, having rather fine low 

 ribs divaricating at a small angle from the median line, and crossed 

 by numerous weak concentric threads. Valve margins very strongly 

 crenulated. 



Length 1.8, alt. 1.95, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Type No. 2753, A. N. S. P. 



Distinguished by its subcircular outline. 



Cuspidaria ornatior n. sp. 



Neaera ornatissima d'Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 248. 



The shell resembles C. ornatissina (Orb.), but has much more 

 numerous radial ribs, 22 in the type; on the anterior half they are 

 subequal, evenly spaced and blunt. Concentric wrinkles along 

 growth-lines are rather well developed in places. 



Length 4.75, alt. 2.7 mm. 



T>T3e No. 2790, A. N. S. P. There are broken valves indicating a 

 considerably larger size. 



Cuspidaria gabbi n. sp. 



Neoera alternata d'Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 248. 



The shell is plump, with elevated, nearly central beaks, much 

 attenuated behind, rostrate, the upper margin sloping and nearly 

 straight before, very deeply concave behind the beaks. Basal 

 margin is incurved posteriorly. There are about 30 radial ribs, 

 the posterior one largest and a little more widely separated from its 

 neighbor; following 4 or 5 ribs of intermediate size, the rest smaller, 

 subequal, and not reaching nea ly to the beaks. 



Length 8, alt. 5.4, semidiameter 2.5 mm. 



Type No. 2791, A. N. S. P. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Near Sphena alternata Orb., but the dorsal border is much more 

 concave behind the beaks. 



Crassatellites (Crassinella) microdelta n. sp. 



Gouldia martinicensis d'Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 252. 



The shell is subtriangular, the anterior and posterior slopes forming 

 a right angle, basal margin strongly curved; lunule and escutcheon 

 narrow, flattened, smooth; sculpture of strong, regular, rounded 

 concentric ribs, about 19 visible in a lateral view of the valve, seven 

 in 1 mm. measured upward from the basal margin. 



Length 2.6, alt. 2.5, semidiameter 0.6 mm. 



Type No. 3229, A. N. S. P. 



According to the figures, Orbigny's Crassatella martinicensis has 

 coarser, more widely spaced ribs. There is, however, a recent 

 Antillean species which resembles this Oligocene form closely in 

 sculpture. 



Crassatellites (Crassinella) dolatus n. sp. 



The shell is rather convex, the anterior slope straight, posterior 

 convex; lunule is somewhat sunken and large; -escutcheon narrow. 

 Sculpture of coarse rounded concentric ribs much wider than their 

 intervals, 15 being visible on a valve, five in 1 mm., measured upward 

 from the basal margin. In the valleys very minute crowded radial 

 striae are seen. 



Length 3, alt. 3, semidiameter 1 mm. 



Type No. 3230, A. N. S. P. 



This species differs from the preceding by its much coarser sculp- 

 ture, larger, more distinctly defined lunule, and greater convexity. 



Venericardia aversa n. sp. 



The shell is small, extremely plump, higher than long, with very 

 large, strongly prosogyrate beaks, and no lunule. Sculpture of 18 

 strong tuberculiferous ribs equal to the interstices. Cardinal tooth 

 very high and thin, the socket correspondingly of unusual depth, 

 narrow. The inner margin is very strongly fluted, and there is a 

 pit under the end of each rib. 



Length 12, alt. 12.5, semidiameter 6.3 mm. 



Type No. 3215, A. N. S. P. 



This small species is well characterized by the inflated form (the 

 diameter being about equal to the length), by the long cardinal 

 tooth and deep socket, and the large beaks. Valves of two indi- 

 viduals, right and left, are in the collection. 




1917.] Natural sciences of Philadelphia. 197 



Venericardia santodomingensis n. sp. 



Cardiia scabricostala Guppy, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philo.s. Soc, XV, 1873, 

 p. 252. Not of Guppy. 



The shell is rounded-oval, the length very slightly exceeding the 

 altitude, beaks very near the anterior end; lunule moderately sunken 

 and rather large. Sculpture of 22 or 23 subacute ribs bearing small, 

 somewhat transverse granuU^s, the intervals between the ribs broad, 

 concave, irregularly striat(xl transversely. Hinge and basal margin 

 as in V. scabricostala (Guppy). 



Length 21.7, alt. 21.3, semidiameter 9 mm. 



Type No. 3214, A. N. S. P. 



This species is closely related to V. scabricostala, })ut differs by 

 having more ribs, which are narrower with wider intervals; it is 

 rounder, and higher relative to the length. We find these differences 

 constant in large series of both examined. It has some resemblance 

 to the young of V. hadra Dall, but that seems to be a heavier, far more 

 coarsely sculptured shell, when specimens of equal size are com- 

 pared. The Chipolan species reaches a far greater size than V. 

 santodomingensis. 



•Echinooliama trachyderma n. sp. 



Chama arcinella Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Pliilos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 2.51. 



Shell resembling E. antiquata Dall in shape, but differing by having 

 fewer radial ribs (8 to 12), which are only sparsely spinose; surface 

 very closely and strongly tuberculate, the tubercles sometimes 

 anastomosing into a netted pattern in places. 



Length 55.5, alt. 61.5, diam. 43.5 mm. 



Type No. 2766, A. N. S. P. 



The comparison of long series of excellently preserved shells from 

 Bowden and Santo Domingo shows no intergradation between 

 E. antiquata and this species. 



Phacoides perplexus n. sp. 



Lucina antillarum Reeve, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 251. 



The shell is small, orbicular, not very inequilateral, with sculpture 

 of numerous (about ten) rounded radial ribs, which gradually dimin- 

 ish and partly disappear on the lower third of the disk, crossed by 

 many close, fine, obtuse and slightly waved concentric threads. 

 Lunule distinct, somewhat sunken. Hinge with two cardinal teeth 

 but no laterals in the left valve. Anterior muscle scar long. Internal 

 margin crenulated. 



Length 7, alt. 6.7, diam. left valve 2.3^ mm. 



With a hinge like Lucinoma, this species has external sculpture 

 14 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



resembling Codakia {Jagonia) antillarum (Rve.) Gabb's specimen, 

 No. 3324 A. N. S. P., a single valve, is not identical with Codakia 

 vendryesi, as Dr. Dall supposed. 



Phiacoides (Parvilucina) pupulus n. sp. 



Lucina crenulata Con., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 251. 



This is a species of the crenidata group, differing from the type of 

 crenulata Conr. (No. 2718, A. N. S. P.) by its far smaller size, thinner 

 concentric lamelliB and the relatively coarser, low and rounded radial 

 sculpture, which appears much more prominent when the concentric 

 lamellse are worn off. The lunule is relatively larger, very deep; 

 finally the teeth are heavier and the marginal crenulation coarser 

 for the size. 



Length 2.8, alt. 2.7, diam. of one valve 1.05 mm. 



Type No. 3323, A. N. S. P., with five other valves. 



Divaricella proletaria n. sp. 



Lucina denlata Wood, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 251. 



The shell is thin, plump, subcircular, equilateral, with sculpture of 

 the usual Divaricella pattern, the grooves widely spaced for so small 

 a shell. There are several strongly marked grooves of growth-arrest 

 in large specimens. The inner margin is finely crenvilated, the 

 hinge-line strongly arched, and not angular at the ends. 



Length 8.75, alt. 8.25, diam. of one valve 3 mm. 



Type No. 2754, A. N. S. P. 



This species is represented by over 20 valves. It is related to 

 D. quadrisulcata (Orb.), but differs by the much smaller size, plumper 

 form, far more curved hinge-line, and the relatively coarser sculpture. 



Lucina mauryae n. sp. 



The shell is compressed, the diameter about half the length, 

 orbicular, with the small beaks near the anterior third of the length. 

 In front of the beaks the shell is produced in a thin wing. There is a 

 small lunule defined by a groove in the right valve, none in the left. 

 The dorsal area is defined by a slight furrow in both valves; surface 

 delicately striate concentrically. 



Length 36.5, alt. 33.5, diam. 19 mm. 



The valves are sl few millimeters apart at the lower edge; if in 

 contact the diameter would be at least 1 mm. less. The compressed 

 shape is characteristic. 

 Diplodonta dedecoris n. sp. 



The shell is thin, with Bather small, pointed beaks, and incon- 

 spicuous sculpture of fine, irregularly developed concentric striae, 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



over which there is a most minute granuhition. Posterior end very 

 short, broadly rounded. Anterior end produced, also Ijroadly 

 rounded, both cardinal teeth bifid. 



Length 1.5, alt. 1.35, semidiameter 0.35 mm. 



Type No. 2758, A. N. S. P. 



Similar to D. minor Dall, but of less oblique, more rounded outline. 



Chione santodomingensis n. sp. 



The shell resembles C. chipolana, but differs as follows. It is 

 shorter and higher, the dorsal and anterior slopes forming a smaller 

 angle. The concentric laminge are widely spaced, and continue 

 over the lunule. The radial sculpture produced by splitting of the 

 ribs is less even. There are fewer concentric ribs than in C. chipolana 

 of the same size. 



Length 17.4, alt. 16.4, semidiameter 5.7 mm. 



Type No. 2777, A. N.S. P. 



We have compared this with a long series of C. chipolana from the 

 type locality, and have no doubt of its distinctness, though there is 

 a general similarity. 

 Chione socia n. sp. 



The shell resembles C. woodwardi Guppy in size and shape, as 

 well as in the lunule, over which the concentric lamellae run. It 

 differs by the radial sculpture. In C. woodwardi the radial ribs run 

 to the basal border, gradually enlarging. In C. socia these ribs, 

 at first similar, soon become smaller, low and slender, and towards 

 the margin they split, so that there are very many more, and smaller 

 riljs. Crenulations of the internal basal margin are smaller and 

 twinned. 



Length 21, alt. 19, diam. 14 mm. 



Type No. 2778, A. N. S. P. 



This form shows a particular sculpture not found in the common 

 C. woodwardi of the Bowden bed, which appears not to occur in 

 Santo Domingo. In C. safitodomingensis the concentric lamellae 

 are much more widely spaced. 

 Chione primigenia n. sp. 



Related to C. cancellata and C. chipolana. The radial sculpture 

 is coarser than in chipolana, the beaks are nearer the anterior end, 

 and the tooth-plate is decidedly broader. The posterior end is more 

 prolonged and cuneate than in C. cancellata, the concentric ribs are 

 more delicate, the lunule far wider than cancellata of equal size and 

 the beaks more anterior. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Length 26, alt. 21.6, semidiameter 8.2 mm. 

 Type a right valve. No. 2782, A. N. S. P. 



Cyclinella cyclica domingensis n- subsp. 



Cyclina cyclica Guppy, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, p. 250. 

 ? Dosinia cyclica Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, XXII, 1866, p. 582, PI. 26, figs. 

 15a, h. 



According to Guppy, the lunule is entirely wanting in his species, 

 but Dall, who has examined the types, states that it is large and 

 lanceolate, and there is "a close concentric sculpture of fine, sharp, 

 somewhat elevated lines" (Wagn. Trans. Ill, 1285). In the Santo 

 Domingo specimen (No. 2755), an excessively faint impressed line 

 defines the lunule, which is about 7 mm. long, 3 wide. The sculp- 

 ture consists of unequal, unevenly developed flat growth-ripples, 

 which on the posterior dorsal slope become fine but not much elevated 

 threads. 



Length 28.7, alt. 26.5, diam. 14 mm. 



As the single specimen seems to differ somewhat from the account 

 of Guppy's species, we prefer to treat it as a variety. 



Dall stated that the type of D. cyclica Guppy was a Liicino'psis 

 {Proc. U. S. N, Mus., XIX, 329), but later {Trans. Wagn. Inst., Ill, 

 1285) he placed it in Cyclinella. 



Type No. 2755. 



Dosinia azuana n. sp. 



The shell resembles D. elegans, but is somewhat plumper, with the 

 concentric grooves more widely spaced, strong throughout. The 

 sculpture is not laminar at the ends. Lunule as in D. elegans. 



Length 39, alt. 38, diam. 20 mm. 



West of Azua, collected by Mr. L. B. Smith. 



Type No. 2685, A. N. S. P. 



Semele delimata «. sp. 



The shell is compressed with small, inconspicuous l)eaks near the 

 middle, lunule rather deep. Anterior end broadly rounded, posterior 

 end more produced and narrower. There are rather sharjD growth- 

 striae near the lower margin, elsewhere smooth. 



Length 47, alt. 38.5, diam. 20.5 mm. 



It is related to S. silicata Dall, a smaller, more sharply sculptured 

 species. 

 Semele firma n. sp. 



Closely related to S. sardonica Dall, but of a less wide, ovate out- 

 ine; lunule deep and narrow; escutcheon narrow, about equally 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



developed in both valves. Sculpture of sharp, low, thread-like eon- 

 centric lamellae without interstitial striae. 



Length 31, alt. 22.5, diam. about 11 mm. 



Both of these species of Semele are apparently from the Orlhaulax 

 bed, having the same hard matrix. They stand close to Ballast 

 Point species, yet are evidently distinct. 



Tellina (Merisca) errati n. sp. 



Tellidora crystallina Chemn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 

 249. 



The shell is compressed, with nearly median beaks, the dorsal 

 slopes on either side straight. Anterior end broadly rounded, 

 posterior end acute; lower margin strongly arched, a little incurved 

 near the posterior end. The right valve has an angular ridge below 

 the posterior upper margin, followed by a radial concavity. Left 

 valve with a slight concavity below the same margin. The surface 

 is matt, with sculpture of delicate, regularly and rather widely 

 spaced laminar concentric ribs. In the intervals there is very fine 

 radial crinkling, the wrinkles partly converging upwards into many 

 little groups. The pallial sinus extends nearly to the anterior 

 adductor scar, and is concrescent below with the pallial line. Lateral 

 teeth well developed in the right, wanting in the left valve. 



Length 13, alt. 9, diam. of left valve 2 mm. 



Type No. 2666, A. N. S. P. 



Gabb's identification of this species was really remarkable. There 

 are two left valves and a ])roken right valve, the latter larger, indi- 

 cating a length o^" 17 or 18 mm. 



Metis eiferta u. sp. 



The beaks are nearly central, left valve more convex, being plump 

 throughout, right valve plump anteriorly, then broadly concave, 

 strongly angular posteriorly. Surface very lightly striate with 

 periodic marks of growth-arrest, and on the anterior and posterior 

 areas there are fine laminae like those of M. chipolana. Radial 

 striation is fine and superficial. 



Length 36, alt. 30.7, diam. 17 mm. 



Type No. 2665, A. N. S. P. 



Related to M. chipolana, but readily distinguishable by the much 

 plumper form, broader and deeper concavity of the right valve, and 

 presence of little laminae only on the ends. The valves are slightly 

 skewed. If evenly placed the diameter would be about 18 mm. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Metis postrema n. sp. 



This species is closely related to M. chipolana and M. efferta, but 

 differs from both by its relatively greater length. 



Length 36, alt. 28.7, diam. about 14 mm. 



Type No. 2760, A. N. S. P. Two other specimens. 



Whether further series will show that these three supposed species 

 intergrade we cannot tell. With the material before us, they seem 

 sufficiently distinct. All were labelled Macoma constrida Brg. by 

 Gabb. It was a wild shot, even for him. 



Labiosa (Eaeta) gabbi n. sp. 



Roeta canaliculata Say, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 248. 



The shell is oval-subtriangular, the beaks nearer the anterior end; 

 sculptured with small concentric ribs which are weaker in the middle, 

 where there is a slightly depressed, quite inconspicuous, wedge-shaped 

 area radiating from the beaks. Beaks small, turned forward a little, 

 smooth. Posterior end rounded, somewhat compressed, the contour 

 in dorsal view being somewhat wedge-shaped. Hinge not exposed. 



Length 28, alt. 2.3, diam. 13.8 mm. 



Type No. 2675, A. N. S. P. 



As the shape, sculpture and size differ conspicuously from L. 

 canaliculata, it is not easy to account for Gabb's identification. 

 It is also obviously unlike L. alta (Conr.). Besides the specimen 

 mentioned by Gabb, five others were found in unassorted material. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



A NEW HUMMINGBIRD FROM COLOMBIA. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



In a collection of birds from the Santa Marta region of Colombia, 

 recently received by the Academy from Mr. M. A. Carriker, there 

 are two specimens of a hummingbird which seem to belong to an 

 undescribed form. They are related to Lepidopyga cceruliigularis 

 Gould, but differ in having the whole under parts, except the under 

 tail coverts, glittering blue, while in that species the abdomen is 

 green, in sharp contrast to the blue of the throat and breast. 



Of the two described species which are usually synonymized with 

 L. cceruliigularis, Trochilus Duchaissingii Bourcier {Compt. Rend., 

 XXXII, p. 187) from "bois entre la Gorgone et Panama," is un- 

 doubtedly identical with that species. The other one, Thalicrania 

 Ccelina Bourcier {Rev. ZooL, 1856, p. 552), is described from the 

 "environs de Santa Marthe," and one would suppose from the 

 locality that it was likely to be the same form as that obtained by 

 Mr. Carriker. The description, however, seems to apply to a bird 

 much closer to Lepidopyga cceruliigularis Gould, as it says: "Gorge, 

 devant du cou, thorax d'un beau bleu brillant, verdissant sur les 

 cotes du cou. Abdomen vert bronze." 



In distinguishing it from Trochilus Duchaissingii [= L. cceruliigu- 

 laris], the describer says: "elle en differe par le dessus de la tete et du 

 €orps, terne bronze chez ce dernier, ainsi que par les formes des 

 rectrices et la coloration des mediaires, qui sont entierement cuivrees." 



Brabourne and Chubb, in their "List of the Birds of South 

 America," recognize both L. cceruliigularis and L. ccelina, and if 

 they are really distinct and if the type of L. ccelina really came from 

 Santa Marta, it would seem that it was the representative of L. 

 ■cceruliigularis in the coast region of the Santa Marta district. In 

 this case the blue-bellied bird obtained by Mr. Carriker at Punto 

 Caiman in the same general region must be specifically distinct. 

 If, on the other hand, the type of L. ccelina, shipped from Santa Marta, 

 was collected at some point more or less remote, in the mountains, 

 as is quite possible since the exact locality at which many of these 

 old types were obtained was not known, then both of them may be 

 better regarded as races of L. ccehdiigularis. Whether the latter 

 15 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



really occurs south of Panama is another question that remains to 

 be settled by the acquisition of additional material. 



Meanwhile it is desirable to provide a name for the blue-bellied 

 bird, and until the distribution of the green-bellied forms is more 

 accurately worked out it had better be regarded as specifically 

 distinct. 



The description follows: 



Lepidopyga lilliae sp. nov. 



Chars. Spec. — Similar to Lepidopyga cceruliigularis, but lower 

 breast and abdomen glittering blue instead of green and upper 

 surface darker green with much less bronze iridescence. 



Description. — Type, adult male, No. 62793, Collection Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Punto Caiman, Santa Marta, 

 Colombia, M. A. Carriker, Setpember 29, 1913. Above dark 

 glossy green with bronze tints showing only on the upper tail coverts 

 and median rectrices; general tone of upper parts bluish green as 

 contrasted with the yellow-bronze iridescence of L. cceruliigularis. 

 Below entirely glittering metallic blue excepting the under tail coverts 

 which are metallic green edged with dull white. The center of the 

 throat is purplish, as in L. cceruliigularis, and some of the posterior- 

 feathers of the abdomen, especially the lateral ones, have green 

 reflections in certain lights. Feet black and bill black above and 

 flesh-colored with black tip below. 



Measurements. — Wing, 48 mm.; tail, 35; culmen, 18; length in the 

 flesh, 105. Named in honor of Mrs. Witmer Stone. 



The second specimen obtained by Mr. Carriker (No. 62794, Coll. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.) is also an adult male and is exactly like the 

 type in coloration. It measures: Wing, 49 mm.; tail, 34; culmen, 19. 

 It was taken at the same time and place as the type. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



June 12, 

 Adjourned Meeting. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D., in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was reported 

 by the Publication Committee : 



"New species of North American bees of the genus Andrena, " 

 by Henry L. Viereck (May 23). Referred to the American Ento- 

 mological Society, (Entomological Section of the Academy.) 



"A new humming bird from the Santa Marta region of Colombia, " 

 by Witmer Stone (May 25). 



"Marine mollusks of Hawaii, I-III," by Henry A. Pilsbry (May 

 26, June 11). 



" Dermapterological notes" by Morgan Hebard (June 25). 



The deaths of the following members were announced : 



Robert J. Hess, M.D., June 20, 1909. 

 Henrv A. Green, 1913. 

 Eugene I. Santee, M.D., June 16, 1915. 

 Frederick Gutekunst, April, 27, 1917. 

 William H. Newbold, May 25, 1917. 



On Hagenius hrevistylus. — Dr. Philip P. Calvert exhibited two 

 larval exuvise of the large dragon fly, Hagenius hrevistylus, from 

 Darby Creek above Heyville, June 18, 1916, and a female imago of 

 the same species from Crum Creek, near Castle Rock, June 23, 1916, 

 both localities in Pennsylvania within nine miles from Philadelphia. 

 He remarked that only one previous record (a larva, Fairmount Park, 

 1893, by the late C. Few Seiss, of this Academy) of this species within 

 the Philadelphia area existed and called the attention of those present 

 to the desirability of noting additional specimens in the present month. 

 The peculiar shape of the larva was commented on. 



Beltian Bodies on Acacia. — Dr. Calvert also exhibited specimens 

 of a Bull's Horn Thqrn {Acacia costaricensis Schenck) from Costa 

 Rica, showing the paired thorns and the "Beltian bodies" at the tips 

 of the pinnules, and specimens of ants {Pseudomyrma nigrocincta) 

 from one of these thorns, all collected by himself. He stated the 




206 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



views of Belt and others as to the relation existing between the plant 

 and the insect and the arguments recently urged by Wheeler against 

 the symbiosis side of Belt's view. 



The following were elected members : 



Samuel Bell, Jr., 

 M. Georgina Biddle, 

 W. Lj^man Biddle, 

 Kenneth M. Blakiston, 

 Henrv H. Bonnell, 



B. Preston Clark, 

 Walton Clark, 

 WiUiam M. Coates, 

 Thomas De Witt Cuyler, 

 Herman Dercum, 

 Andrew J. Ennis, 

 Clayton D. Fretz, M.D., 

 W. H. Gartley, 



Hon. John Marshall Gest, 

 William P. Gest, 

 S. H. Gilliland, 

 Alfred Gordon, M.D., 

 Henrv S. Grove, 



C. H: Guilbert, 



D. L. Hebard, 

 Hannah M. Hebard, 

 Mary Euphemia Hebard, 

 S. Charlton Henry, 

 Benjamin R. Hoffman, 

 Alba B. Johnson, 

 Charles J. Jones, M.D., 

 Theodore Justice, 



J. L. Ketterlinus, 

 Charles H. La Wall, 

 Morris E. Leeds, 

 James E. Lennon, 



Walter Lippincott, 



Percy C. Madeira, 



Julia Hebard Marsden, 



Hon. J. Willis Martin, 



J. Hartley Merrick, 



Robert Thomas Moore, 



F. Corlies Morgan, 



Marriott C. Morris, 



Frank J. Myers, 



Carroll B. Nichols, 



William A. Patton, 



Edmund B. Piper, M.D., 



J. Sergeant Price, Jr., 



William K. Ramborger, 



George D. Rosengarten, Ph.D., 



Boyd P. Rothrock, 



B. Franklin Royer, M.D., 



Coleman Sellers, Jr., 



Howard Sellers, 



Robert P. Sharpies, 



Henry W. Shoemaker, 



I. P. Strittmatter, M.D., 



Sydney Thayer, 



William Henry Trotter, 



Robert Orr Van Deusen, 



Bryant Walker, A.M., Sc.D., 



Joseph Wayne, Jr., 



S. P. WetheriU, 



Robert Whitaker, 



George Woodward, M.D., 



Rev. Harrison B. Wright. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, I-III. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



In the identification of mollusks obtained by the writer in 1913, 

 and those subsequently received from Mr. D. Thaanum, of Hilo, 

 it was found necessary to review all the Hawaiian species of some 

 families. That the studies may be of use to others interested in the 

 Hawaiian fauna, it is proposed to publish the results in a series of 

 articles with illustrations of new forms and those not previously 

 figured. 



It is a pleasure to acknowledge the liberality of Mr. Samuel Hen- 

 shaw, Director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, who allowed 

 the author to study and "figure specimens from the Pease collection,, 

 contained in that museum. Without these, definite conclusions, 

 would be unattainable in many cases. 



I. THE PHASIANELLID^. 



The Hawaiian Phasianellse are all very small, but of exquisite 

 beauty. Probably all but P. thaanumi belong to the section Tri- 

 coliella Monts., type P. jmlla, if this is separable from Tricolia. 

 For P. thaanumi a new section, Hiloa, may be formed, characterized 

 as in the following: 



Key to Hawaiian Phasianellce. 



a. Peristome projecting forward at junction of columellar and basal 

 margins; shell short, of rapidly enlarging whorls. 



P. thaanumi, n. sp. 

 o^ No projection of the peristome in unbroken specimens. 



b. Axis narrowly, deeply umbilicate; thin P. molokaiensis, n. sp. 



b^. Axis perforate. 



c. Shell ovate, with moderately long spire. 



d. Rather solid; 2.7x2 mm. P. variabilis (Pse.). 



d^. Thin, about 1.8 mm. long P. v. kahoolawensis, n. subsp. 



d. Shell broad, with short spire P. bryani, n. sp. 



Phasianella variabilis (Pease). 



1860. Collonia variabilis Pse., Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 436. 

 1888. Phasianella variabilis Pse., Pilsbry, Man. of Conch., X, p. 176, 

 PL 39a, figs. 21, 22. 



This species is sometimes common on the beaches east of Honolulu 

 (which may be taken as type locality), and I have taken it at Haleiwa, 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



on the west coast. In both places it was found associated with 

 .Alcyna rubra. It has not been reported from any island but Oahu. 

 It differs from other Hawaiian species of the genus by its longer, 

 ovate contour. The patterns vary widely. An average specimen 

 measures: 



Length 2.7, diam. 2, longest axis of aperture 1.5 mm.; 4 whorls. 



Phasianella variabilis kahoolawensis n subsp. PI. X^^ fig. 11. 



The shell is perforate, pinkish-buff with pink lineolation, the first 

 whorl opaque white; thin. 



Length 1.8, diam. 1.45, longest axis of aperture 1 mm.; 3^ whorls. 



Kahoolawe, the type, No. 116188, from the north shore; another 

 specimen from Smuggler's Bay on the southern shore; collected by 

 Pilsbry, 1913. 



This is probably a distinct species. It is thinner, with a thinner 

 columella than young P. variabilis of the same size. I did not find 

 variabilis on the island of Kahoolawe. 



Phasianella bryani n. sp. PI. XV, fig. 13. 



The shell is narrowly perforate, short and broad, rather solid, 

 smooth, nearly white, closely, obliquely lineolate with pale rose. 

 Spire short. Whorls well rounded, rapidly increasing. Aperture 

 oblique, nearly round. Columella rather thin, not prominent at 

 its junction with the basal margin. 



Length 2.4, diam. 2.1, longest axis of aperture 1.54 mm.; 3| whorls. 



Haleiwa, west coast of Oahu. Type and paratypes No. 116320, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913. 



This species occurred with P. variabilis, from which it is readily 

 separable by the shorter spire and relatively broader last whorl. 

 The groove behind the columella is much narrower than in P. molo- 

 kaiensis, and the shell is thicker. Some examples have opaque white 

 spots below the suture. It is named for the author of Natural 

 History of Hawaii, who was my companion and guide on several 

 collecting trips to the reefs of Oahu. 



Phasianella molokaiensis n. sp. PI. XV, fig. 10. 



The shell is thin, narrowly umbilicate, globosely ovate, smooth 

 and glossy, the type having old rose spots below the suture, irregular 

 spots below the periphery, and a lineolate band between, on a whitish 

 ground. The aperture is nearly round, oblique, showing the color 

 through; outer lip thin; columella thin, a deep and wide groove 

 behind it. 



Length 2, diam. 1.7, longest axis of aperture 1.27 mm.; 3| whorls. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Moomomi, on the north coast of western Molokai, type and many- 

 other specimens No. 117054, A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913. 



The umbihcus and the groove below it are larger than in other 

 Hawaiian species. The shell is thinner than that of P. variahilis or 

 P. hryani. 



The specimens vary in pattern, but nearly all were bleached. 



Phasianella thaanumi n. sp. PI. XV, figs. 12, 14. 



The shell is very thin, perforate, short, obliquely conic, the spire 

 short, somewhat attenuate, last whorl very rapidly enlarging. Surface 

 smooth, pale olive buff, translucent, with four indistinct, narrow 

 whitish bands on the latter part of the last whorl, where there are 

 also some very faint brownish flecks. 



- The very large and decidedly oblique aperture is subrotund, but a 

 little longer than wide. The outer lip is well expanded. Columella 

 is narrowly expanded, thin, regularly arched, and there is a forwardly 

 salient angle where it joins the basal lip. The operculum is olive- 

 buff, strongly convex and smooth externally. 



Length 2.1, diam. 1.8, longest axis of aperture 1.35 mm. 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. Type and paratype No. 117053> 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 8393 of Mr. Thaanum's collection. 



This species is very distinct by the projection of the peristome at 

 the foot of the columella. The rapidly enlarging whorls and marked 

 expansion of the lip are also characteristic. The surface has a thin 

 calcareous incrustation, unlike the clean, glossy appearance of most 

 Phasianellas. 



ALCYNA. 



Alcyna contains shells similar to Phasianella except that the 

 columella has a strong tooth. The operculum is not yet known. 

 So far as we know, the greatest development of Alcyna is on the 

 Hawaiian shores, where six species have been found. Four of these 

 were described by W. H. Pease, 1860- '69. As none of them has 

 been fully characterized, and only one figured, I am giving new 

 figures of all but one, A. striata Pease,^ the specimens of which could 

 not be found in the Pease collection, being either lost or misplaced. 



Mr. Kuhns dredged A. kuhnsi in 25 to 50 fathoms. Four species 

 collected by the writer were found in strand debris, on the shores of 

 Oahu, Molokai and Kahoolawe. 



1 AlcijJM striata Pse., Amer. Jour, of Conch., V, p. 70; Man. of Conch., X, p. 182, 

 reprint of original description. 




210 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Key to Species of Alcyna. 



a. Shell very minutely or scarcely perforate ; whorls rounded, without 

 raised striae. 

 6. Base and spire having fine, engraved spiral lines; of uniform 



color, longitudinally lineolate or spotted A. rubra Pse. 



h^. No engraved lines, smooth; spirally banded with red, 



A. kapiolanice, n. sp. 

 a^ Shell openly perforate. 



b. Having raised spiral stria^ or small ridges. 



c. Marked with red spiral lines or narrow bands; varix behind 



the lip low A. lineata Pse. 



cK Marked with flammules or longitudinal stripes (or uniform 

 white?) ; varix behind lip well developed 



A. subangulata Pse. 



6^ Whorls not ridged or striate, with minute engraved lines at and 



below middle of the last whorl A. kuh7isi, n. sp. 



A. striata Pse., which I have not seen, is described as having 

 impressed lines, whorls angular below suture, speckled and mottled 

 w4th black and gray, whitish below the suture. 



Alcyna rubra Pease, pi. XV, figs, l . 2. 



1860. Alcyna rubra Pease, P. Z. S., p. 436. 



1862. Phasianella rubra Pease, Reeve, Conchologia Iconica XIII, PI. 6, 



fig. 18«, b. 

 1888. Alcyna rubra Pse., Pilsbry, Man. of Conch., X, p. 182. 

 Type in British Mus.; metatypes No. 31720, M. C. Z., and No. 37834, 



A. N. S. P. 



Pease's description was reproduced in Manual of Conchology. 

 He overlooked the fine, engraved spirals, of which there are six on 

 the penult whorl, more on, the next earlier. On the last whorl they 

 are more or less weakened or even wanting in the peripheral region 

 and above, but distinct on the base. There is a vertical groove at 

 the axis, but not a perforation. As in other species, the columellar 

 tooth appears stronger in an oblique view, but the degree of emer- 

 gence varies individually. The whorl has a very low, broad swelling 

 behind the lip in adults, but it is often scarcely noticeable. 



The color, as seen in the mass, is old rose, but the shade varies 

 noticeably in different specimens. There is a white area around the 

 columella, and the apical whorl is slightly paler. Otherwise the 

 color may be nearly uniform (fig. 2) or marked with darker oblique 

 lines on a paler ground on the spire, blotched with buft' or white 

 below the suture of the last whorl, with scattered whitish dots over 

 the rest of the surface (as in Reeve's fig. 18a, and our fig. 1), or 

 exceptionally there may be oblique red lines also on the last whorl. 

 The blunt lip-edge is touched with rose color in adult shells. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



These notes apply to the typical lot in the Pease collection M. C. Z.^ 

 which is labelled "Hawaii." There is also a numerous, wholly 

 similar, series in A. N. S. received from Pease, No. 37834. 



The shape varies somewhat, fig. 1 being of the prevalent form. 



Length 2.55, diam. 1.9 mm. ; 4f whorls (typical specimen, £g. 1). 

 2.35, " 1.8 " (wide specimen, fig. 2). 

 " 2.7, " 1.7 " (narrow specimen) . 



In a small series from Waikiki beach, near Honolulu, the same 

 patterns occur. 



At Haleiwa I found the typical pattern, also similar with a pale 

 peripheral line, and a form with lineolation throughout, in isabella 

 color. 



One specimen from the north shore of Kahoolawe is isabella colored,. 

 in typical pattern. 



Alcyna kuhnsi n. sp. PI. XV, fig. 9. 



The shell is openly perforate, globosely ovate, solid, varying in 

 color from coral pink to eugenia red, spotted with white in varying 

 patterns (the type specimen coral pink, having a series of white 

 blotches below the suture on the last whorl, a series of spots above a 

 pale peripheral line, and scattered spots in the intervals; other shells 

 being darker with very few spots, olive-buff with irregular longitu- 

 dinal lineolation of red and the typical white spots, etc.) ; the apical 

 whorl white, the next white or olivaceous. Sculpture of encircling 

 impressed lines at and below the periphery. Columellar area broad,, 

 white. Tooth conical, median on the columella. Lip thickened but 

 beveled to an edge, the whorl noticeably swollen behind it. 



Length 1.65, diam. 1.3 mm.; 4 whorls. 



Off Waikiki (between Honolulu and Diamond Head), in 25 to 50 

 fathoms, D. B. Kuhns, 1917. Type No. 117055, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 8395, Thaanum Coll. 



This species was taken in some numbers. It differs from A. rubra 

 by the small size, short contour, open perforation and different 

 shape of the columellar tooth. 



Alcyna kuhnsi humerosa n. subsp. PI. XV, fig. 8. 



The shell is openly perforate, globular-conic, the last whorl obtusely 

 angular at the shoulder, flattened below the angle; smooth and 

 glossy, but engraved at and below the middle with spiral impressed 

 lines, of which there are about 14. Color pale pinkish cinnamon,, 

 irregularly lineolate longitudinally with old rose, the lines not reaching 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



to the suture; the first two whorls white. Peristome somewhat 

 thickened within. Columella deeply grooved, bearing a stout tooth. 



Length 1.75, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Waikiki beach, Pilsbry, 191o. Type No. 117049, A. N. S. P. This 

 differs from A. kuhnsi by the distinctly angular shoulder, but as 

 only one example has been examined the constancy of the character 

 is uncertain. 

 Alcyna kapiolaniae n. sp. PI. XV, fig. 3. 



The shell is imperforate, though grooved at and below the umbilical 

 situation, ovate, rather solid, smooth throughout, glossy; flesh-pink, 

 encircled with narrow bands of old rose or jasper red, 7 to 12 on the 

 last whorl, the first two whorls whitish. Lip thickened, bevelled. 

 Columellar area broad, white, with a vertical groove; the tooth stout, 

 directed somewhat downwards. 



Length 2.4, diam. 1.74 mm. 



Waikiki beach, near Honolulu, type No. 117052, A. N. S. P., and 

 Haleiwa, on the west coast of Oahu; Pilsbry, 1913. 



This charming little shell was found in beach debris in both localities. 



It has about the shape of A. rubra, but differs by lacking spiral 



impressed lines, the surface being smooth; also by the color-pattern, 



to which there is no approach whatever in the large series of A . rubra 



examined. It is colored like A. lineata, but that species is spirally 



ridged and somewhat shorter. 



Alcyna lineata Pease. Pi. XV, fig. 4. 



1869. Alcyna lineata Pease, Amer. Jour, of Conch., V, p. 69. 

 1888. Alcyna lineata Pease, Pilsbry, Man. of Conch, p. 182. 



Pease's description was reprinted in Manual of Conchology, but 

 the species has not been figured before. It is openly perforate, 

 about as figured for A . suhangulata, and, as Pease says, transversely 

 ridged, the ridges jasper red, intervals coral pink. There is a distinct 

 though low swelling behind the outer lip. The holotype measures: 



Length 2.15, diam. 1.65 mm.; 4 whorls. 



Type No. 31724, M. C. Z. Puuloa. 



This species differs from A. kapiolajiice, which is similarly colored, 

 by the well-developed spiral ridges, the open perforation and the 

 shorter contour. 



The type is figured. Besides this, I have seen a single specimen, 

 found at Waikiki, which appears referable to this species. It differs 

 by being a little more slender, with the columellar tooth more receding 

 and only part of the spiral ridges are colored, there being five colored 

 lines on the last whorl, instead of ten which the type shows. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Alcyna subangulata Pease. PI. XV, figs. 5-7 (varieties). 



1860. Alcyna subangulata Pease, P. Z. S., p. 436. 



1888. Alcyna subangulata Pease, Pilsbry, Man. Conch. X, p. 182, reprint 



of original description. 



This species was described from a specimen sent to H. Cuming, 

 and the type is presumably in the British Museum. A specimen in 

 the Pease collection, Museum of Comparative Zoology, No. 31723, 

 is drawn in figs. 5 and 6. This shell agrees well with Pease's descrip- 

 tion except in color. It is pale pinkish buff with small, pale brownish 

 flames radiating from the suture. The last whorl is obtusely biangu- 

 lar with alwut 4 low spiral cords above the upper angle, two and a 

 very weak third between the angles, base with numerous spirals. 

 There is a rounded swelling or varix behind the lip, stronger than 

 in the other species. The umbilicus is rather large (fig. 5, an ob- 

 liquely basal view). The tooth appears larger in a more oblique 

 view than that drawn. It is a ''dead" shell. 



Length 2.2, diam. 1.7 mm. 



A specimen from Haleiwa, on the west coast of Oahu (Pilsbry, 

 1913) is similar, but with only two cords between the angles, in 

 front, and the color is uniform cartridge buff, probably bleached. 

 Of two from Honolulu, collected by F. Stearns, No. 93890, A. S. N. P., 

 one is bleached white, the other is fresh, whitish with flames of pale 

 flesh color radiating from the suture, wider and more distinct than 

 in the Pease example figured. As this coloration is quite unlike that 

 described by Pease for A. subangulata, the specimens described above 

 may be called A. s. flammulata; No. 93890 being the type. 



Typical A. subangulata was described as "deep red with oblique 

 light red lines." 



Alcyna subangulata virgata, PI. XV, fig. 7, is a somewhat narrower 

 form with three carinse in the middle, two small cords above the 

 upper one, the color flesh pink, becoming old rose at the summit, and 

 elegantly striped with claret brown. As in the other forms, there is 

 a prominent rounded varix behind the outer lip. 



Length 2.1, diam. 1.5 mm. 



Haleiwa, west coast of Oahu, on the beach. Type No. 116297, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913. 



The tooth recedes, and in an oblique view it is seen to be much 

 longer than shown in the figure. The value of the characters given 

 for these forms of A. subangulata remains to be tested by the com- 

 parison of series of individuals. 



A. subangulata resembles A. lineata, but differs by the much 

 stronger varix behind the outer lip and the coloration. 




214 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June-, 



II. THE TEOTIBRANOHIATA. 



Besides the species discussed below, the following Tectibranchs 

 of the Cephalaspidian group have been reported from the Hawaiian 

 Islands.- Species marked with a * were originally described from 

 the Hawaiian Islands. 



Pwpa nitidula (Lam.).^ 



Bullina scahra (Gmel.). 

 *Bullina vitrea (Pse.). 

 *Scaphafider alatus Dall. 

 *Scaphander pustulosus Dall. 



SmaragdineUa viridis (Q. & G.). 

 *Bullaria peaseana (Pils.).* 

 *Haminea crocata Pse. 

 *Harninea galba Pse. 



*Haminea pusilla Pse. 

 *Haminea sandwichensis Sowb. 

 *Volvatella fragilis Pse. 



Hydatina physis (L.). 



Hydatina a in piastre (L.). 



Micromelo guamensis (Q. & G.), 

 *Aglaja nuttalli Pils. 

 *Philinopsis speciosa Pse. 

 *Philinopsis nigra Pse. 



Bidlaria peaseana has been found abundantly at Hilo by Mr.. 

 Thaanum. The writer took Hydatina amplustre on the north coast 

 of Kahoolawe. 



Umhraculiwi sinicum aurantiacum (Pse.) which Mr. Thaanum 

 has taken at Hilo, appears to be sufficiently distinct from U. sinicum 

 by characters of the shell to merit a subspecific name. 



Pupa thaanumi n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is oblong with acutely conic spire, solid, somewhat 

 shining, whitish, unevenly tessellated with flesh pink, the spotting 

 interrupted by pale bands on the sixth and twelfth spaces between 

 spiral grooves; an apricot buff area at the base. Sculpture of 17 

 spiral grooves on the last, four on the penult whorl; they are closely 

 punctate; the upper two grooves and the lower seven are close, the 

 rest being nearly twice as far apart. Columellar fold heavy, its 

 wide crest grooved. A small spiral fold is above it on the parietal 

 wall. 



Length 9, diam. 4 mm.; 6| whorls. 



Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms. Type No. 117069, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1193a of Mr. Thaanum's collection, taken by D. B. Kuhns, 

 1916. 



This species resembles P. suturalis (Ad.), P. strigosa (Gld.) and 



^ The list is quoted from a MS. catalogue of recorded Hawaiian moUusks 

 compiled by Mr. D. Thaanum. 



^ Solidula nitidula auct., Tornatella nitidula Lam. 

 * Bulla peaseana Pils. Man. Conch. XV, 348. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



215 



P. alveola (Souverbie), more especially the last, which differs in 

 details of sculpture and somewhat in coloration. 



The substitution of Pupa for Solid ula is one of the unfortunate 

 consequences of adopting Bolten's nomenclature. 



-^^ 



Fig. 1. — Pupa thaanumi. Fig. 3. — Acteocina lionoluluensis. 



Fig. 2. — Acteocina sandwicensis. 



Acteocina sandwicensis (Pease). Fig. 2. 



1860. Tornatina sandwicensis Pse., F. Z. S., p. 19; description reprinted 

 in Man. Conch. XV, 190. 



Pease's set of this species, No. 31712, M. C. Z., consists of five 

 somewhat beach worn specimens, all of them having lost the nuclear 

 whorls. There are, I think, two species in the lot, both of which 

 have been dredged together by Mr. Kuhns, off Honolulu in 6 to 8 

 fathoms. As these specimens are perfect, the figure is drawn from 

 one of them. No. 117071, A. N. S. P. 



The form which may be taken as typical A. sandwicensis is cylin- 

 dric, white, glossy, with minute sculpture of close, superficial spiral 

 stria?, not extending upon the shoulder or spire. The spire is con- 

 vexly conic. The nuclear whorl is more than half immersed. There 

 are 3| subsequent whorls. The columellar is rather straight, with 

 a very small fold above, and in an oblique view in the aperture 

 a low prominence may be seen near the base. The inner lip has a 

 rather heavy callus. Outer lip is strongly arched forward, as usual. 



Length 4.05, diam. 1.7 mm. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Junt\ 



Acteocina honoluluensis n. sp. Fig. 3. 



This species is similar to A. sandivicensis in size and sculpture. 

 It differs by the noticeably longer spire and the projecting nucleus,. 

 the uptilted whorl being wholly exposed. The columellar fold is 

 slightly more prominent. 



Length 4.3, diam. 1.65 mm. 



Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms, with A. sandwicensis. Type No. 

 117070, A. N. S. P., from Mr. Thaanum, collected by D. B. Kuhns. 



Atys kuhnsi n. sp. Figs. 4 a, b, c. 



The shell is narrowly umbilicate, oval, the diameter about two- 

 thirds of the length; widest slightly above the middle; thin, semi- 

 transparent, white, opaque white at base and vertex, marked with 

 narrow, irregularly waved (sometimes branching) tawny or cinnamon- 

 brown streaks. The surface is glossy, with sculpture of engraved 

 encircling grooves; the intervals being closely sculptured with 

 circular striae near the ends, but smooth towards the middle, where 

 the grooves are wider apart (and, except in the largest individuals,, 

 there is a smooth zone in the middle, which narrows progressively 

 with age). The vertex has a very small and shallow concavity about the 

 posterior axis. The axis posteriorly has a moderate, obliciue fold. 

 The columella is narrow, nearly straight, but there is a small promi- 

 nence below the middle. The aperture is narrowly rounded anteriorly. 



Figs. 4a, b. — Atys kuhnsi. 4c white variety erf same. 

 Fig. 5. — Atys semistriata. 



Length 15.8, diarri^ 10-mm. (type, fig. 4a). 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 25 to 50 fathoms, D. B. Kuhns, 1917; type 

 and paratype No. 117074, A. N. S. P. 



Two specimens, out of eight received from Mr. Thaanum, are 

 pure white, without markings. It is an exquisite shell, which may 

 appropriately be dedicated to Mr. Kuhns, who has dredged success- 

 fully over very difficult, bottom on the kona shore of Oahu. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



By the coloration it resembles Bulla ferriujinosa Chemn., A. Adams, 

 in Sowerby's Thesaurus ConchyUorum II, p. 585, PI. 124, fig. 110, 

 but differs by the decidedly less globose contour of A . kuhnsi. 



Bulla ferruginosa Gmelin {Syst. Nat. 13, p. 3432) is a young Cyprcea^ 

 so that A. Adams' form requires a new name. It may be called Atys 

 naucum strigata. The habitat is unknown. 



Atys semistriata Pease. Fig. 5. 



1860. Atys semistriata Pse., P. Z. S., p. 20; description reprinted in Man, 

 Conch. XV, p. 267. 



The shell is narrowly umbilicate, truncate-ovate, widest below the 

 middle, thin, bluish-white in the middle, opaque white at both ends. 

 The rounded vertex is closely striate spirally, not deeply sunken in 

 the center. Upper part sculptured with about 12 spiral impressed 

 lines, the base with about 16; the middle third smooth. The axial 

 fold above the vertex is rather low and rounded. Columella deeply 

 concave, thin. 



Length 14, diam. 8 mm. 



The largest individual in Pease's lot. No. 31716, Mus. Comp. 

 Zool., is described and figured. I found specimens on the north 

 shore of Kahoolawe. 



The apex is not perforate, as Pease described it, but the spiral 

 curvature of the axis there gives the impression of perforation, in a 

 superficial view. 



Atys debilis Pea.se. Fig. 7. 



1860. Atys debilis Pse., P. Z. S., p. 20; description reprinted in ]\Ian. Conch. 

 XV, 266. 



The type of the species was said by Pease to be in the Cuming 

 collection, so it is likely that that Sowerby's figures {Conch. Icon. 

 XVII, Atys, PI. 5, fig. 28a, b) were drawn from it. I am giving an 

 enlarged photographic copy of one of these figures for comparison 

 with the following species, from which A. debilis differs by being 

 "narrowed posteriorly." Sowerby's figure is 14.8 mm. long. The 

 figures in Man. Conch, were copied from Donum Bisinarkianum.. 

 It is curious that Pease did not mention the projecting point of the 

 fold at the summit, which shows in Sowerby's figure. 

 Atys cornuta n. sp. Fig. 8. 



The shell is thin, cylindric-oblong, tapering to both ends, nearly 

 white. Sculpture of spiral grooves at both ends, about 6 deep and 

 two or three minute ones, more spaced, at the upper end, numerous 

 unequal grooves on the lower third. The vertex is narrow, deeply 

 impressed around the axis, a spiral furrow or concavity within. 




218 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



The ascending axis is broad, very obliquely spiral, terminating in a 

 posteriorly projecting point. Anteriorly the axis is very minutely 

 perforate; columella broad, concave, appressed above, obliquely 

 truncate below. 



Length 10.6, diam. 4.8 mm. 



Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fathoms, D. B. Kuhns. Type No. 117075, 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 397a Thaanum coll. Also Hilo, Hawaii. 



This form agrees with the account and figures of A. debilis except 

 in shape; it is wider in the upper part, though not at the vertex. 

 As no specimen of A. debilis is in the Pease collection at Cambridge, 

 and comparison with the supposed type in London is impracticable 

 at this time, the present form is described subject to further inves- 

 tigation. 



The summit is more pinched up into a narrow ridge than in A. 

 cijlindrica (Helbling) or A. parallela Gld. A. hyalina Watson is less 

 slender. 



The species reaches a size considerably greater than the specimen 

 serving as type. One from Hilo, sent by Mr. Thaanum (No. 117076) 

 measures, length 15, diam. 6.7 mm. There are about 11 spiral 

 grooves on the upper fourth, followed by 4 or 5 slightly elevated 

 spirals, the basal third, below the smooth space, having many spiral 

 grooves, as usual. 



Fig. 6. — Atys costulosa. Fig. 7. — Atys debilis. 



Fig. 8.- 



-Atys cornuta. 



Atys costulosa Pease. Fig. 6. 



1869. Atys costulosa Pse., Amer. Journ. Conch. V, p. 73. 

 1893. Atys costulosa Pse., Pilsbry, Man. Conch. XV, p. 267. 



Waimalu, Oahu; Type No. 31714 Mus. Comp. Zool., Pease coll. 

 This species is quite distinct by the well developed longitudinal 




1917.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



219 



folds. There are deep spirals at both ends, about 10 above, columella 

 is slightly concave, widely reflected, bounded by a groove as usual, 

 and indistinctly truncate basally. White. It appears to be closely 

 related to A. debilis and A. cornuta, which have no longitudinal 

 plication. 



Length 5, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Fig. 9. — H. a. oahuensis. Fig. 10. — H. c. tomaculutn. 

 Haminea aperta oahuensis n. subsp. Fig. 9. 



Compared with H. aperta Pse. of Tahiti, this shell differs by being 

 more swollen in the middle, and malleate (like some Lymnseas) in 

 the peripheral region. It is white, and without engraved spirals. 



Length 14.5, diam. 10 mm. 



On the shore of Oahu, 1| miles east of Kahuku. Type No. 117072, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913. 



The type of H. aperta originally illustrated by Pease, No. 57575 

 A. N. S. P., has been compared. 



Haminea curta tomaculum n. subsp. Fig. 10. 



Resembling H. curta A. Ad., but narrower, strictly cylindrical; 

 narrowly perforate at both ends. Columella very narrow, hardly 

 reflected; sculpture of minute, unequal, close spiral striae, with about 

 30 distinctly deeper spirals, close towards the base, elsewhere rather 

 widely and unequally spaced. 



Length 12.4, diam. 5.5 mm. 



Off Honolulu, 6 to 8 fathoms. D. B. Kuhns, 1916. Type No. 

 117073 A. N. S. P., from No. 1181a Thaanum coll. The "original 

 figure of H. curta, as well as the specimens before me, is distinctly 

 shorter and wider than this Hawaiian form, with the sides more 

 convex and the lip ascending less at the posterior end. H. cuti- 

 cuUfera Smith and H. cairnsiana Melv. are related forms. 



16 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



III. THE MELANELLID^ {Eulimidoe). 



The absence of sculpture and the rarity of color, together with 

 the simplicity of form, reduce the number of available specific charac- 

 ters in this family, rendering determination of species difficult. 

 The arrangement of varices, whether in one or two longitudinal 

 straight or spiral series, or sparsely scattered, is a valuable feature, 

 also the width of the gray border below the suture, and the curvature 

 of the outer lip; but these have often been overlooked in published 

 descriptions. The size of the apex is often useful, also the degree 

 of curvature, which, however, is individually rather variable. 



All of the known Hawaiian species are mentioned below, but there 

 are certainly many more. At least half a dozen species, beach 

 material, are represented in our collection hy specimens somewhat 

 worn, or by single shells which may not be adult, though obviously 

 distinct. 

 Melanella thaanumi n. sp. PI. XIV, figs. 5 to 6 a. 



The shell is white, slightly transparent, rather solid, with strongly 

 developed curvature in two directions. Whorls very slightly convex, 

 each with one varix. The varices are opaque white, the series 

 ascending the spire spirally on the right side and back, making 

 between a fourth and a half turn. The aperture is ovate. Outer 

 lip arches very strongly forward. Length 25, diam. 7 mm. ; length 

 of aperture 6 mm.; 13 wdiorls, the apical ones lost (type, figs. 5, 5a). 

 An immature specimen 19 mm. long has 16 whorls, the apex perfect. 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. Type and paratypes No. 108471 

 A. N. S. P. Also No. 19764, from Dr. Newcomb, from ''Sandwich 

 Islands. " 



This species is probably Eulima arcuata Sowerby, Conch. Icon., 

 PI. 2, fig. 14, 1865, not E. arcuata C. B. Ad., 1849. 



None of the series before me is so much curved as Sowerby's figure, 

 yet the individuals vary considerably in curvature. 



There is an allied species from Mauritius (PI. XIV, figs. 2, 2a) 

 which differs from thaanumi by the somewhat larger size and wider 

 form. It differs from Eulima major by the much more strongly arched 

 outer lip. Length 28.5, diam. 9, length of aperture 8 mm.; 15 whorls, 

 some at the apex lost. This form may be called Melanella robillar- 

 diana. Type No. 19763 A. N. S. P., figs. 2, 2a; two other specimens; 

 collected by V. Robillard. 



Melanella major (Sowb.),* from Tahiti, is a larger, less curved 



^ Eulima major Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1834, p. 7; Conchological Illustrations, 

 Eulima fig. 1 (not fig. 1*, and probably not fig. 1**). Locality, Tahiti. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



species in which the outer Hp is far less strongly arched, and the 

 shell more opaque. The row of varices is nearly straight. A 

 topotype, received from Mr. Cuming, is figured for comparison, 

 PI. XIV, figs. 1, la. 



Melanella inflexa (Blainv.) (as Phasianella inflexa, Blainville, 

 Manuel de Malacologie, p. 439, PI. 35, fig. 5), from Isle of France, 

 is a smaller, much more broadly conic species, according to the 

 figures. It is certainly not identical with M. major, as surmised by 

 Tryon. 



Melanella cumingi medipacifica n. subsp. PI. XIV, figs. 4, 4a. 



This form is less robust than M. cumingi A. Ad.,^ with a narrower 

 aperture. It is very slightly bent, almost straight. The varices 

 are at irregular intervals of from a half to about three-fourths of a 

 whorl, the last whorl with none. They appear on the last 10 whorls 

 at least. The shell is white throughout. 



Length 24, diam. 7.5 mm.; 12 whorls, several at the apex lost. 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. Type and paratype No. 108473 

 A. N. S. P. 



This may be the adult form of Eulima conoidalis Sowerby, Conch. 

 Icon. XV, 1866, PI. 3, fig. 22, described from the Sandwich Islands, 

 Mus. Cuming. It is a point to be settled by further investigation, 

 and the comparison of half grown examples of medipacifica with 

 conoidalis. 



Melanella labiosa (Sowerby). PI. XIV, figs. 3, 3a. 



1834. Eulima labiosa Sowb., P. Z. S. p. 7 (Island of Annaa, Pacific Ocean); 



Conchol. Illustr. fig. 2. 

 1855? Eulima labiosa Sowb. A. Adams, Thes. Conch. II, PL 169, fig. 31. 

 1886. E. labiosa Sowb. (as svnonym of E. brevis Sowb.), Tryon, Man. 



Conch. VIII, p. 267, PI. 68,^fig. 2. 



The shell is white, rather solid, somewhat curved, conic, the whorls 

 noticeably convex. Varices in a single lateral series on the right 

 side, which recedes to a dorsal position on the early whorls. The 

 aperture is rather broadly ovate; outer lip prominent above the 

 middle, strongly receding from there to the suture. 



Length 19, diam. 7.6, length of aperture 6 mm.; 11^ whorls, the 

 tip wanting. 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. Figured specimen is No. 117067 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 3807 Thaanum collection. 



While related to M. thaanumi, this is easily distinguished by its 



^ Eulima cumingi A. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1851, p. 277; Sowerby's Thesaurus 

 Conchyhorum II, PI. 169, fig. 26. Lord Hoods Island, South Seas, on Avicula 

 margaritifera. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



much more conic form, whiter color, etc. The specimens vary a good 

 deal in degree of curvature, some being less, others more curved 

 than the one figured. The Hilo specimens agree well with the 

 figures of E. lahiosa, l)ut I have not had topotypes for comparison. 

 Tryon considered labiosa a synomym of Eidima brevis Sowb., but 

 this appears to me improbable. The description and figure are 

 from a Hilo shell. 



Melanella vafra n- n. Fig. lie,/. 



1867. Eulima inflexa Pease, Amer. Journ. of Conch. Ill, p. 294. Not 

 Phasianella inflexa Blainville, also a Melanella. 



The spire is attenuate above and has a gentle double curvature. 

 There is one series of varices, beginning a little behind the aperture 

 on the penult whorl receding upward to a dorsal position. The 

 outer lip is thin, strongly and evenly arched, the basal margin not 

 retracted. The shell is bluish white, but slightly transparent, 

 having the usual opaque white area behind the lip; sutural border 

 gray. 



Length 8.4, diam. 3.8 mm.; 14 whorls, 



Viti Islands, A. J. Garrett. Type No. 59233 A. N. S. P. Hilo, 

 Hawaii, D. Thaanum. 



Mr. Tryon thought this a synomym of Eulima solida Sowb., but 

 in a considerable series seen, the outer lip is never thickened as 

 Sowerby described and figured for his species. The present form 

 appears to resemble Melanella pyromidalis (A. Ad.), from the Philip- 

 pines, which, however, has a thicker spire. The spire appears a 

 little more curved in a view intermediate between those drawn in 

 figures e and /. 



The Hilo specimens are a little more curved than those from Fiji. 

 One is figured, PI, XIV, fig. 7. 

 Melanella aciculata (Pease). Fig. l la, 6, c. 



1860. Eulima aciculala Pease, P. Z. S., p. 438 (Sandwich Islands). 

 1866.? Eulima aciculata Pease, Sowerby, Conch. Icon! XV, PI. 5, figs. 

 36a, b. Not Pasithea aciculala Lea, 1833, = Strombiformis aciculata (Lea). 



A specimen from the Pease collection. No. 31705 Mus. Comp. 

 Zool., is draw^n in figs. 11a, h. The upper third is quite slightly bent 

 in two directions. There is a slight bulging close to the apex (fig, 

 lib), the earlier three whorls forming a wider cone than the later 

 ones. This is noticeable on both specimens in the Pease collection, 

 but not in those from Hilo. There are very few inconspicuous 

 varices, one each on the penult and next earlier whorls are all I can 

 make out. The suture is a fine line. Some distance below it there 

 is a creamy band (marking the internal suture) in the bluish white 




1917, 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



223 



shell. The whorls are almost flat. The outer lip is rather strongly 

 and evenly arched forward. 



Length 5.8, diam. 1.9, lenglh of aperture 1.6 mm.; about 12 whorls. 



Length 5.5, diam. 1.8 mm. 



This species is a true Melanella conchologically, though some 

 examples are nearly straight in front view. It certainly differs from 

 M. acicula (Gld.) {Stylifer acicula Gld.), of which specimens of the 

 original lot from Gould have been compared. The very much 

 narrower sutural margin, the straighter form and more transparent 

 shell of M. acicula are characteristic. Eulima exilis Pease^ is a 



Fig. 11. — a, b, Melanella aciculata, Pease coll. c, M. aciculata, Hilo. d, M. 



kahoolawensis. e, f, M. vafra. 



' Eulima exilis Pease, P. Z. S., 1862, p. 242; Amer. Journ. of Conch. Ill, p. 294, 

 PI. 24, fig. 25. It has been united by Tryon with E. pusilla Sowerby, from 

 Sta. Elena, Bay of Guayaquil, Ecuador, but in my opinion erroneously; Sowerby 's 

 figure, Conch. Illustr. fig. 6, is very different. It is not Eulima exilis Gabb, 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila. IV, p. 385 (November, 1860). As the original 

 description of E. exilis Pease was inadequate, the published figure poor, and the 

 name preoccupied, the species may be redescribed as follows: 



Eulima pisorum. (Figs. I2a, 6.) 



The shell is almost straight, bluish white, opaque white at the last third of the 

 last whorl. Suture linear, inconspicuous, having a narrow clear margin, rather 

 sharply defined, more opaque below the margin. Whorls hardly perceptibly 

 convex. There is a rather inconspicuous variceal line preceded by an opaque 

 area on the back of the antepenult whorl, another on the second whorl above it. 




224 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



more slender shell, with the sutural margin narrower, and the spire 

 less bent. 



Eulima venusta Pease, from the Paumotus, is very closely related 

 to aciculata, but perfect specimens have a larger apex; the outer lip, 

 also, is somewhat more arched forward. 



So far as I know, there is no reliable record of Eulima adcula 

 (Gld.) from the Hawaiian group. Tryon's record seems to have 

 pertained to Eulima aciculata Pease, of Sowerby, which he appears 

 to have thought was not the true aciculata of Pease, but was a 

 synomym of acicula. This opinion seems to me without adequate 

 foundation. Try on has recorded two synomyms of E. acicula: 

 Eulima vitrea A. Ad. (Fiji) and Leiosiraca pyramidaUs Sowb. (Hab. 

 unknown.) From the figures, these appear to be rightly placed. 



Mr. Thaanum's specimens of M. aciculata from Hilo, Hawaii 

 (No. 82228 and 108472 A. N. S.), differ from the Pease examples 

 by being a little more robust, with the early whorls slightly more 

 attenuate (fig. lie). 



Length 9, diam. 2.75, length of aperture 2.3 mm.; 16 whorls 

 (PI. XIV, fig. 8a). 



Length 8.8, diam. 2.75, length of aperture 2.5 mm. (PI. XIV, fig. 8). 



The aperture is narrowly ovate. Outer lip runs rather far forward and is 

 retracted again at the base. 



Length 10.9, diam. 3.1 mm.; length of aperture 3 mm.; 14 whorls. 



It resembles M. aciculata (Pse.), but the margin below the suture is narrower, 

 the last whorl is wider, and especially, the apex is larger. 



. Viti Islands. Type No. 19773, collected by A. Garrett. Others from the 

 same source are in the collection received from Pease. 



/ 



Fig. 12o. b. Melanella pisorum. Fig. 12c, Mucronalia nilidula. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



Melanella kahoolawensis n. sp. PI. XIV, fig. 9. 



The shell is irregularly but slightly curved, acuminate near the 

 apex, solid, whitish. The whorls are nearly flat, suture not impressed, 

 bordered below by a rather wide grajdsh-white band. On the penult 

 whorl there is one varix near the left side, the two preceding whorls 

 each having a varix on the right side. The aperture is ovate; outer 

 lip blunt, strongly retracted above (fig. lid). Columella vertical, 

 somewhat thick. 



Length 9.4, diam. 3.25 mm.; length of aperture 3 mm.; about 

 12 whorls. 



Kahoolawe, northern shore; t>i3e No. 116219, collected by Pilsbry, 

 1913. 



This species is related to M. acicula, but the spire is stouter, more 

 attenuate near the apex, the aperture is larger and the outer lip more 

 retracted above. 



Melanella opaca (Sowerby). 



Eulima opaca Sowb., Conch. Icon. XV, 1865, PI. 4, fig. 30 (Sandwich Is.). 



Specimens from Hilo, "found only on sea cucumbers" by Mr. 

 Thaanum, are figured, PI. XIV, fig. 11. The identification is pro- 

 visional, as Mr. Sowerby's description does not mention several 

 important characters. 



The shell is solid, slippery, opaque white, without a distinct 

 margin below the suture. The spire is slightly curved, the apex 

 deciduous. Whorls are slightly convex, and have a straight series 

 of deeply impressed varix-grooves along the right side. The outer 

 lip is rather thick, a little contracted, and only weakly arched forward. 



Length 11, diam. 4 mm.; 8| whorls remaining. 



The specimens are No. 94583 A. N. S. P., from No. 845 of Mr. 

 Thaanum's collection. 



Melanella solida (Sowerby). 



Eulima solida Sowb., Conch. Icon. XV, 1865, PI. 3, fig. 18 (Sandwich Is.). 



I have not seen this species, which should be recognizable by the 

 thick lip. 



Melanella conoidalis (Sowerby). 



Eulima conoidalis Sowb., Conch. Icon. XV, 1865, PI. 3, fig. 22 (Sandwich Is.)- 



Possibly an immature shell. 



Melanella acanthyllis (Watson). 



Eulima acanthyllis Wats., Challenger Rep., Gastropoda, p. 512, PI. 35, fig. 8, 

 (Reef off Honolulu, 40 fathoms). 



A minute species, about 2.5 x 0.8 mm. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Mucronalia nitidula Pease; Fig. 12c. 



1S60. Mucronalia nitidula Pease, P. Z. S. p. 437 (Sandwich Is., lives on 



Holothurife). 

 1866. Eulima nitidula Pease, Sowerby, Conch. Icon. XV, PI. 5, figs. 35a, b. 

 1886. Eulima (Mucronalia) nitidula Pease, Tryon, Man. of Conch. VIII, 



p. 284. 



Not Eulima nitidula A. Ad., 1855. 



The shell is solid, opaque white, straight, of rather stronghj convex 

 whorls; apex lost, but the first whorl of those retained is dispro- 

 portionately small. There are no varices. Aperture is ovate, the 

 outer lip arching forward in the middle. 



Length 4.5, diam. 2.2 mm.; 6 whorls remaining. Length of 

 aperture 1.7 mm. (Metatype of E. nitidula Pse.). 



Length 3.9, diam. 2.1 mm., 5| whorls remaining. Length of 

 aperture 1.5 mm. (Quarantine Island, Honolulu). 



Quarantine Island, Honolulu, D. B. Kuhns, 1915. 



The contained animal gives a faintly ochraceous tint to part of 

 the last whorl. The solidity and convex whorls are characteristic. 



The larger of two specimens of M. nitidula Pse. in the Pease col- 

 lection. No. 31711 Mus. Comp. Zool., is drawn in fig. 12c. The 

 specimens from Quarantine Island are slightly smaller but otherwise 

 identical in characters. 



Mucronalia rosea (Pease). 



1860. Mucronalia rosea Pse., P. Z. S., p. 437 (Sandwich Is., lives on Echini). 



1866. Eulima rosea Pse., Sowerby, Conch. Icon. XV, PI. 5, fig. 39. 



1886. Eidima {Mucronalia) rosea Pease, Tryon, Man. Conch. VIII, p. 284. 



Mucronalia sandvichensis (Sowerby). 



1866. Eulima sandvichensis Sowb., Conch. Icon. XV, PI. 3, fig. 21 (Sand- 

 wich Is.). 



1886. Eidima (Mucronalia) sandvichensis Sowb., Tryon, Man. Conch. 

 VIII, p. 284. 



The original figure is 16 mm long. 



Mucronalia ovata Pease. 



1860. Mucronalia ovata Pse., P. Z. S., p. 437 (Sandwich Is.). 



"Shell elongately ovate, light, dull shining; whorls 5, shghtly 

 convex; inner lip thickened at the base and extending by a callositj^ 

 over the columella to the junction of the outer lip. Colour dull 

 white. Lives on Echini." A lost species, which can scarcely be 

 identified without dimensions, figure or type. 



Scalenostoma (Hyperlia^ apiculatum (Souverbie). PI. XIV, figs. 10, 106. 



Scalenostoma apiculatum Souv., Journ. de Conchyl. 1876, p. 383; 1877, p. 77, 

 PI. 1, fig. 1. 



Hilo, Hawaii. Mr. Thaanum found four specimens. Two were 



in holes in coral from which they could not escape, nor could they 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



move, apparently, l)eing firmly wedged in; two others were found 

 free, on coral. 



Two specimens sent are figured. It is the narrower one which 

 agrees with Souverbie's description and figure. It measures, length 

 7.8, diam. 3.7 mm. The wider one measures, length 7, diam. 3.9 

 mm. With so small a numl:)er, one can hardly tell whether the 

 difference is merely individual variation or of specific significance. 

 Temporarily the wide variety may be called form latior (fig. 10&). 



S. apiculatum was described from a single example from Mauritius, 

 not from New Caledonia, as Tryon stated {Man. Conch. VIII, 

 p. 287). 



The apical whorl,s of this shell are like those of Stylifer, and unlike 

 .Scalenostoma. It may be taken as type of a new section distinguished 

 by the smooth attenuate early whorls, and to be called Hyperlia. 

 Whether an operculum is present has not been ascertained. It 

 appears much nearer to Mucronalia than to Melanella in characters 

 of the shell. 



Stylifer robustus Pse. is reported by Mr. Pease as living on Echini, 

 but the exact locality in the Islands was not given. 



.Subularia metcalfei (A.. Adams). Fig. I3a. 6. 



1855? Leiostraca metcalfei A. Ad., in Sowerby's Thesaurus Conch. II, p. 802, 



PL 1.70, figs. 12, 13. 

 1853. Leiostraca metcalfei A. Ad., H. and A. Adams, Gen. Rec. Moll. I, 



p. 238, PI. 25, fig. 3a. 

 1917. Subularia metcalfei A. Ad., Bartsch. Nautilus XXX, p. 134, PI. 5, 



fig. 2 (enlarged copy from Thes. Conch.). 



Pease was the first to determine the locality of this peculiar snail 

 tto be the "Sandwich Islands," but as usual did not note the exact 

 place. One of his shells, No. 19822 A. N. S. P., is drawn. It is 

 ibluish- white with ochraceous* markings disposed as in the figure. 

 None of the shells seen have them in such regular festoons as are 

 shown in the Thesaurus figure, which apparently served as the 

 original of Dr. Bartch's enlarged view. The spire is just perceptibly 

 ;bent in the upper part, composed of slightly convex whorls. There 

 is series of curved, linear varix-lines on both right and left sides, the 

 ilines receding a little with ascent of the spire, so that in the upper 

 part they are dorsal and ventral. The later whorls are rather con- 

 ;spicuously compressed between dorsal and ventral sides, as shown 

 in the basal outline, fig. 136, and there is a flattened area on the face, 

 near the base, banded by an acute, ascending curved angulation on 



* The specimens are beach shells, and the color has probably faded more or less. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



the left, shown as a short Hne in fig. 13a. The aperture is very 

 narrow, inner Hp straight, and heavily calloused in the middle. 



Length 8.8, diam. 3 mm.; about 9 whorls. 



Suhularia has recently been restricted by Dr. Bartsch to the type 

 S. metcalfei A. Ad. Leiostraca distorta Pease forms a second species 

 of the group, no others being known to belong to it. 



Suhularia differs from Melanella {Eulima) by its compressed shape 

 and by having a flattened area at the base of the ventral side, between 

 the columella and a short angular longitudinal ridge on the left side; 

 the aperture is very narrow, more than twice as long as wide, and the 

 inner lip is straight. 



Suhularia is somewhat like Strombiformis {Leiostraca of most 

 authors) in its narrow mouth, but it is probably more closely related 

 to Melanella by the varices. The flattened area is an unique feature. 

 The genus Chileutomia Tate and Cossmann differs by its projecting 

 varices.^ 



The two species known are very distinct by the following characters. 



Spire nearly straight, with varix-lines on the right and left sides 

 (Section Subularia); colored markings present. S. metcalfei. 



Spire strongly curved, with varix-lines on the right side only 

 (Section Hemiliostraca). Shell without color markings, S. distorta. 



A very minute specimen from Smuggler's Bay, Kahoolawe, a 

 larger one from the north coast of Molokai and several from the 

 beach near Waikiki, Oahu, seem to be Subularite, but as part are 

 single specimens and none in fresh condition they are mentioned here 

 merely as an indication that there are other species. Single shells 

 are particularly inconclusive in this family, as there is nothing to 

 definitely mark the adult stage. 



Subularia distorta (Pease). Fig. 13c, d. 



1860. Leiostraca distorta Pease, P. Z. S., p. 438. 



1866. Leiostraca distorta Pease, Sowerby, Cpnch. Icon., PI. 3, fig. 15. 



1886. Eulima peasei Tryon, Man. Conch. VIII, p. 281. 



One of two specimens in the Pease coUection, No. 31706 Mus. 

 Comp. Zool., is figured. The spire is bent to the right, and in the 

 upper part it bends towards the ventral side. There are linear, 

 inconspicuous, impressed varix-lines on the right side of the last two 

 whorls. In a basal view the shell is seen to be strongly compressed 

 between dorsal and ventral sides (fig. 13c). The ventral side is 

 flattened near the base, the flattening bounded by a longitudinal 

 angulation on the left side. The internal axis is faintly visible 



• 9 See Hedley, Proc. Linn. Soc, N. S. Wales, 1930, p. 50.5. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



through the bluish-white shell. The suture is very inconspicuous, 

 indeed difficult to see, not distinct as the line figure shows. There 

 is a wide border below the suture, bounded by a white line, on the 

 last two whorls. The aperture is very narrow and long, the inner 

 lip nearly straight, calloused. The outer lip curves forward somewhat 

 in the middle. 



Length 5.75, diam. 2 mm. 



Length 5.6, diam. 1.8 mm.; about 7 whorls. 



This species is related to *S. metcalfei. It also has some resemblance 

 to Melania distorta Philippi, Eulima curva Jeffr., and E. incurva 



Fig. 13a, b. — Subularia metcalfei. c. d. S. distorta. Figs, b and c are basal 



outlines. 



Ren., of the Mediterranean. In these the mouth is somewhat 

 narrower than in Melanella, and a single series of linear varices runs 

 up the right side and curves towards the dorsal side as usual; but 

 they do not have the other characters of Subularia. 



On account of the prior use of the name distorta for species belonging 

 to Eulima {Melanella), Tryon renamed this species E. peasei; but 

 if we consider Suhidaria a group of generic rank there is no conflict 

 of names. 



Niso sandwichensis Sowerby. 



Niso sanduxichensis Sowb., Conch. Icon. XV, PI. 1, fig. 1 (Sandwich Is.). 

 Niso sandwichensis Sowb., Tryon, Man. Conch. VIII, p. 288. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Explanation of Plates XIV and XV. 



-Note. — Figs. 1 to 6a are twice natural size; figs. 7 to 11, 3 J times nat. size. 



Plate XIV. — Figs. 1, la. — Melanella major (Sowerby). Tahiti. 

 Figs. 2, 2a. — Melanella robillardiana n. sp., Mauritius. 

 Figs. 3, 3a. — Melanella labiosa (Sowb.). Hilo, Hawaii. 

 Figs. 4, 4a. — Melanella cumingi medipacifica n. subsp., Hilo, Hawaii. 

 Figs. 5, 5a. — Melanella thaanumi n. sp., Hilo, Hawaii. 

 Figs. 6, 6a. — Melanella thaanumi, a younger individual of the same lot. 

 Fig. 7. — Melanella vafra n. sp. Variety from Hilo, Hawaii. 

 Figs. 8, 8a. — Melanella aciculata (Pse.). Hilo, Hawaii. 

 Fig. 9. — Melanella kahoolawensis n. sp., Kahoolawe. 

 - Figs. 10, 10b. — Scalenostoma apiculatimi (Souv.). Hilo, Hawaii. 

 Fig. 11. — Melanella optica (Sowb.). Hilo, Hawaii. 



Plate XV.— Figs. 1, 2.—Alcyna rubra Pse. Pease coll., 31720 M. C. Z. 

 Fig. 3. — Alc.yna kapiolanice n. sp., 117052 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 4.—Alcyna lineata Pse. Pease coll., 31724 M. C. Z. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Alcyna subangulata var. flammulata n. var. Pease coll., 31723 



M. C. Z. 

 Fig. 7. — Alcyna subangulata virgata n. subsp., 116297 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 8. — Alcyna kuhnsi humerosa n. subsp., 117049 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 9. — Alcyna kuhnsi n. sp., 117055 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 10. — PhasianeUa molokaiensis n. sp., 117054 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 11. — PhasianeUa variabilis kahoolawensis n. subsp., 116188 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 12, 14. — PhasianeUa thaanumi n. sp., 117053 A. N. S.' P. 

 Fig. 13. — PhasianeUa bryani n. sp., 116320 A. N. S. P. 




1917.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



DERMAPTEROLOGICAL NOTES. 

 BY MORGAN HEBARD. 



In the many large exotic collections at hand, but very few specimens 

 of Dermaptera are to be found. In no case are the forms of the 

 order sufficiently represented to give anything but a fragmentary 

 faunistic knowledge, excepting in the West Indian, Mexican, Costa 

 Rican and Panamanian series, which are being reported on separately. 

 The study of these important series has offered an opportunity to 

 determine the one hundred and four specimens discussed below. In 

 several instances features of decided interest are encountered, the 

 types of several old species are discussed, while among the thirty-one 

 species recorded, one new genus and six new species are found. 



Our hearty thanks are accorded to Dr. F. E. Lutz, of the American 

 Museum of Natural History, Dr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum 

 of Comparative Zoology and Prof. Lawrence Bruner, of the Univer- 

 sity of Nebraska, not only for the loan of undetermined material, 

 but of historic specimens and types as well, enabling us to work out a 

 number of vexing problems. Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the United 

 States National Museum, has also helped us greatly, but the rule of 

 his institution, preventing the loan of types, has obliged us to omit 

 the consideration of certain species which bear on our work, the status 

 and relationship of which is not at present clearly understood. 



PYGIDICRANID^. 



PYRAGRIN^. 

 Pyragra fuscata Serville. 



1831. Pyragra fuscata Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 34. [Cayenne.] 

 Chanchaniayo, Peru, 19, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Pyragropsis brunnea (Burr). 



1909. Pyragra brunnea Burr, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (8), III, p. 254. [Fon- 



teboa, Brazil {ucc Peru) ; Iguapo, Peru.] 

 Kangaruma, British Guiana, VII, 13, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; in forest trail), 



Icf, [A. M. N. H.]. 

 Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 12, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; taken by sifting), 



19, [A. M. X. H.]. 



The male is in every way typical. The female is larger; length of 

 body, 13.2, of forceps 2.9 mm. This female has the head, pronotum, 

 tegmina and exposed portion of wings lustreless blackish brown; 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



this, under the microscope, found to be due to a thin but solid coating 

 of some foreign matter. 



LABIDURID^. 



PSALIN.E. 



Tsalis festiva Burr. 



1910. Psalis festiva Burr, Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1910, p. 182. [Bahia, 



Brazil.] 

 Cariaquito, Venezuela, I, 1911, (S. Brown), 2 9, [A. N. S. P.]. 



We are by no means convinced that this insect is merely a small, 

 non-melanistic, wingless form of P. gagathina, as indicated by Burr.^ 

 The truncate tegmina alone are visible in these specimens. Length 

 ■of body 15.8 and 17.5, of forceps 3.4 and 4 mm. 



The head is mahogany red, the pronotum burnt sienna. The 

 tegmina are mars yellow, except narrowly on the caudal margin 

 and more broadly on the cephalic margin, where they are blackish 

 brown, like the abdomen and forceps. The limbs are clear mars 

 yellow. 



Spandez percheron (Guerin and Percheron). 



1838. Forficula percheron Guerin and Percheron, Gen. Ins., Orth., PL VII. 

 [French Guiana.] 



San Carlos, Costa Rica, Icf, type of Psalis pulchra Rehn, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Trinidad, (H. D. Chipman), 2 9, types of Labia pictipennis Bruner, [Bruner 



Cln.]. 

 Caparo, Trinidad, VI and VIII, 1913, (S. M. Klages), Icf , 1 9 , [A. N. S. P. 



and Hebard Cln.]. 

 Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 11, 1911, (Crampton), 1 9 , [A. M. N. H.]. 

 Rio Caiary-Uaupes, Amazonas, Brazil, XI, 1906, (H. Schmidt), Icf, 



[A. M. N. H.]. 



The original figure of this distinctive species is excellent, and we 

 'do not understand why Burr, after placing pulchra (with a query) 

 and pictipennis in the synonymy under percheron in the Genera 

 Insectorum, has more recently mentioned and also designated 

 pulchra as genotype of Spandex? 



These specimens show little variation except in pronotal coloration. 

 The pronotum varies from solid Sanford's brown, to almost solid 

 blackish bay, two examples showing an intermediate and maculate 

 -condition. 



The Brazilian specimen differs from all others before us in having 

 the femora heavily and very broadly annulate with blackish brown. 



The male penultimate ventral abdominal segment is remarkable 



1 Ann. k.-k. Naturhist. Hofmus. Wien, XXVI, p. 334, (1912). Burr also included 

 ■there pulchra of Rehn, actually an absolute synonym of Spandex percheron 

 i(Guerin and Percheron). 



-Jour. Royal Microsc. Soc, 1915, p. 537, (1915). 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



in having the distal margin narrowly and very weakly emarginate 

 mesad, slightly thickened at each extremity of this emargination 

 and with a minute, elongate-conical styliform process situated in 

 •each, directed caudad. From the original description of Burr's 

 Psalis rosenbergi, it would appear probable that this condition is 

 also found in that species and that it is likewise a member of the 

 genus Spandex. 



^linute tubercles are found along the caudal margins of the fifth 

 to ninth dorsal abdominal segments, particularly in females, these 

 tubercles strongest laterad, from each of which springs a very elongate 

 hair. 



Metalabis saramaocensis (Zacher). 



1911. Eu[labis] saramaccensis Zacher, Zool. Jahrb., Abth. Syst., XXX, 

 p. 378. [Sanboden, Saramacca District, and Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana.]. 



Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana, VIII, 26, 1911, (F. E. Lutz), 1 small juv,, 



[A. M. N. H.]. 

 Tukeit, British Guiana, VII, 21, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; under boat), 1 small juv., 



[A. M. N. H.]. 

 Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 11 and 12, 1911, (F. E. Lutz), lo", 2 9, 1 large 



juv. cf, 1 small juv., [A. M. N. H.]. 

 Ireng River to Roraima, Brazil, VIII, 6, 1911, (Crampton), 1 9 , [A. M. N. H.]. 



The brief, longitudinal, rounded, dorso-lateral keels of the disto- 

 dorsal abdominal segment readily distinguish males of this insect 

 from the numerous other generally similar species of the Psalides. 



The present series averages smaller than the type series as 

 measured by Zacher ("Long. tot. 19-22 mm."), but no other features 

 to warrant specific separation appear to exist. Length of body, cf , 

 12.; 9 11.5 to 12.; of forceps, cf, 2.6; 9 , 2.3 to 2.4 mm. 



Euborellia scudderi (Bormans). 



1900. Ps[alis] scudderi Bormans, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, (2), 

 XX, p. 449. [Puerto 14 de Mayo, L'pper Paraguay [now in Bolivian 

 Chaco]; Olivenza, Amazon River [Brazil].] 



Chanchamayo, Peru, Scf, [A. N. S. P.]. 



We are not certain that these specimens represent scudderi, as 

 none of them have the wings showing. They are unquestionably 

 conspecific with the material from Para, Brazil, recently recorded, 

 with a question, as scudderi by Rehn.^ 



There is little doubt but that scudderi Bormans and Psalis burri 

 Borelli are referable to Euborellia, these species being, in fact, closely 

 related to Euborellia janeirensis. The present specimens, when 

 compared with males of janeirensis before us, are found to differ only 

 in the slightly heavier build, complete and rectangular tegmina and 



n916. Trans. Am. Enl. Soc, XLII, p. 218. 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^ 



slightly heavier punctulation and lateral carinse of the dorsal abdomi- 

 nal segments. 



Euborellia ambigua (Borelli). 



1906. Anisolabis ambigua Borelli, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. comp. Univ. 



Torino, XXI, No. 531, p. 3. [Jesus Maria River, Costa Rica.] 

 Port of Spain, Trinidad, III, 4, 1910, (Crampton & Lutz), IcT, [A. N. S. P.]. 



This species is closely related to Euborellia janeirensis. The 

 antennae are not annulate. 



Euborellia annulipes 'H. Lucas). 



1847. Forficesila annulipes Lucas, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, (2), .V, p^ 

 LXXXIV. ["Jardin des Plant es, Paris"; probably introduced.] 



Tomb of Maximus, Rome, Italy, VH, 24, 190S, (M. Hebard; under stone 

 on Campagna), 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. 



LABIDURIN.E. 

 Labidura xanthopus (St&l). 



1855. Forficesila xanthopus St&l, Oefv. Vet.-Akad. Forh., XII, p. 348. 

 Carcarana, Argentina, (L. Bruner), Icf, 19, [A. N. M. H.]. 



Labidura riparia (Pallas). 



1773. Forficula riparia Pallas, Reise, Russ. Reichs, pt. II, p. 727. [Shores 

 of Irtysch River, western Siberia.] 



Biskra, Algeria, 1889, (Desbrothers), lo", [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Tamatave, Madagascar, 1 $ , [Hebard Cln.]. 



The specimen from Biskra is rather pale, with wings scarcely 

 showing beyond the tegmina and with the two, latero-median pro- 

 jections of the clisto-dorsal abdominal segment distinct. The speci- 

 men from Tamatave is rather dark, with wings projecting one 

 millimeter. 



Forcipula despinosa new species. PI. XVI, fig. 1. 



This is the only species of the genus which has the sides of the 

 abdomen smooth. This character would assign the species to 

 Labidura in the existing keys, but there is no question that Forcipula 

 is the genus to which the species properly belongs, and it is, indeed, 

 not widely separated from other Indian species, as might be inferred 

 from that single feature. 



In the body pubescence the species agrees with F. trispinosa and 

 F. pugnax, but shows closer similarity to F. quadrispinosa in the shape 

 of the forceps. It is very distinctive in entirely lacking projections 

 of the dorsal abdominal segments and in the microscopically pitted 

 surface of the metazona, tegmina and wings. 



Type: d^ ; Northern India. [Hebard Collection, Type No. 437.] 



Size slightly smaller, form similar to that of quadrispinosa . Head, 

 pronotum, tegmina, exposed surface of wings and dorsal surface of 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



abdomen, except ultimate segment, very finely pubescent, each minute 

 hair springing from a minute pit, these smaller on head and prozona.* 

 Head otherwise similar to that of quadrispinosa. Antennae with 

 first and third joints subequal in length, fourth joint about half 

 again as long as broad.^ Tegmina and wings fully developed, broadly 

 rounding laterad, not showing a feeble percurrent keel as in quad- 

 rispinosa. Dorsal surface of abdomen without projections, but with 

 segments, to the penultimate, milled at their caudal margins; ultimate 

 segment narrower than in quadrispinosa, width not two and one-half 

 times length,*^ with a decided medio-longitudinal sulcus and with 

 surface showing microscopic, irregular, impressed lines, which are 

 strongest meso-distad. Pygidium declivent, large, fitting tightly 

 between forceps, roughly rhomboidal, with distal portion curving 

 inward and margin there broadly convex, surface convex distad, 

 showing two minute, blunted projections. Forceps elongate, internal 

 margin broadly concave in slightly more than proximal half, with 

 minute widely spaced teeth, thence straight, with more numerous, 

 slightly larger serrations to the distal third of this portion where it is 

 concave and smooth to the apex: shaft in proximal fourth heavy, 

 triquetrous, tapering, with dorsal margin smooth, thence slender, 

 nearly cylindrical to slightly beyond middle point, where it is slightly 

 enlarged and more flattened horizontally, tapering distad to the acute 

 apex. Ventral surface of abdomen strongly pubescent, distal margin 

 of penultimate segment subtriangularly convex. Limbs rather long, 

 slender; caudal metatarsus hairy, in length equalling that of the 

 third tarsal joint, with a heavy fringe of hairs along the external 

 margin; tarsal claws elongate and slender. 



Length of body, 16.2; of pronotum, 2.4; of tegmen, 4.9; of forceps 

 8.; width of pronotum, 2.3; of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, 

 3.2 Him. 



Head, pronotum, tegmina, exposed portion of wings and abdomen 

 chestnut brown, slightly darker on face, shading to claret brown on 



^ In quadrispinosa the head is much more weakly pubescent, the prozona 

 almost smooth and hairless, the tegmina and exposed surface of wings more 

 polished, finely granulose and hairless, and the metazona and dorsal surface of 

 the abdomen, except the ultimate segment, is more thickly and minutely granu- 

 lose, with hardly any hairs. 



5 In quadrispinosa the first joint is longer than the combined length of the 

 second and third, the fourth joint as broad as long. 



^ Burr's figures show, in his Fauna British India, Dermapt., that he meant 

 rectangular, when he characterized this segment as square, for the species of 

 Forcipula. 



17 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie^ 



polished ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, forceps claret brown. 

 Palpi and limbs cinnamon-buff. 

 The type is unique. 



Forcipula quadrispinosa (Dohrn). 



1863. L[abidura] quadrispinosa Dohrn, Stett. Ent. Zeit., XXIV, p. 311. 



[Tranquebar, India; Ceylon.] 

 Phuc-Son, Annam, XI and XII, (for H. Fruhstorfer), Icf, [Hebard Cln.]. 



This specimen fully agrees with Burr's more adequate diagnosis 

 of the species.'^ 



PARISOLABIN^. 

 Pseudisolabis elegans new species. PI. XVI, figs. 2, 3. 



The present species is related to P. hurri and P. tenera, easily 

 separable in the male by the much more elongate and evenly curved 

 forceps. It agrees more nearly with tenera in form, coloration and 

 antennal joints, but with hurri in the form and contour of the ultimate 

 dorsal abdominal segment and proportions of the tarsal joints. 



Type: cf ; Kulu, Kangra, India. (M. M. Carleton.) [Museum of 

 Comparative Zoology.] 



Size rather small ; form compact, greatest width mesad on abdomen. 

 Dorsal surface shining, of head and pronotum smooth with hardly 

 any hairs, of abdomen exceedingly finely pubescent, each minute, 

 microscopic hair springing from a minute, microscopic pit, proximal 

 segments with a few small bristles laterad. Head with sutures 

 subobsolete, a few very feeble depressions indicated meso-caudad 

 on the occiput. Antennae with third joint elongate, distinctly longer 

 than sixth, (in the majority of specimens longer than any other 

 excepting the first. The fourth joint is normally wider than long, 

 but varies to appreciably longer than wide.) Pronotum wider than 

 long, rectangular, with angles sharply rounded; surface weakly 

 convex with a feeble medio-longitudinal sulcus, which is obsolete 

 caudad; concave narrowly laterad, the concavity feebly extending 

 mesad at the juncture of the prozona and metazona, which are fused 

 without further demarkation; lateral margins cingulate. Mesontum 

 and metanotum very short. Dorsal abdominal segments simple, 

 with straight caudal margins, which are not produced laterad and 

 are broadly convex latero-ventrad; ultimate segment very short, 

 fully four times as wide as long, slightly depressed and declivent 

 distad in mesal section, with a feeble medio-longitudinal sulcus; 

 caudal margin truncate, feebly rotundato-angulate produced above 



''Fauna British India, Dermapt., p. 94, (1910). 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



the forceps. Pygidium declivent; subtrigonal, with apex rounded; 

 moderately tumid. Forceps simple, elongate, gradually tapering 

 and evenly curved to the aciculate apex, cylindrical except in median 

 portion, where the inner surface is flattened. Penultimate ventral 

 abdominal segment strongly transverse ; caudal margin very broadly 

 convex laterad, very feebly concave in broad mesal portion. Limbs 

 short, femora stout. Caudal tibia (normally) with two minute, 

 disto-ventral spines, caudal metatarsus hairy ventrad, with two 

 rows of minute spines and a heavy internal fringe of hairs. Caudal 

 metatarsus slightly longer than combined length of second and third 

 tarsal joints, second joint more than half as long as third. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology.] 



Agrees Avith male except in the following features: Disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment very much smaller, projections above forceps 

 slightly broader. Forceps very short, triquetrous, tapering to the 

 aciculate apex and very weakly curved inward distad; margins 

 smooth, but internal margin feebly lamellate proximad. Penultimate 

 ventral abdominal segment with distal margin broadly rounded, 

 showing a feeble mesal emargination. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



cf Length of Length of Width of Width of Length of 



body. pronotum. pronotum. abdomen. forceps. 



Type 9.2 1.7 2.2 2.8 3. 



Paratype 8.3 1.6 1.9 2.4 2.8 



9 



Allotype 9. 1.8 2.3 2.9 1.8 



Paratype 10.2 1.8 2.3 2.8 1.8 



Paratype 10. 1.9 2.3 2.8 1.9 



General color shining bay, deepest on head, forceps and distad on 

 abdomen, tarsi paler. 



Specimens Examined. — 5; 2 males and 3 females. 



Kulu, Kangra, India, (M. M. Carleton), 2cr, 39, tijpe, allotijpe, 

 paratypes, [M. C. Z., Hebard Cln. and A. N. S. P.]. 



LABIID^. 



SPONGIPHORIN.E. 

 ^pongiphora bogotensis (Rehn). 



1905. Opislhocosmin bogotensis Rehn, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIX, p. oil, 



fig. 8. [Bogotd., Colombia.] 

 1911. Pilex bogotensis Shelford, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXVIII, p. 460. 



(New genus based on Rehn's type.) 



Compared with material of the genotype, S. croceipennis, the unique 

 type of the present species, now before us, is found beyond doubt 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



to be a member of the genus Spongiphora. The pecuUar and dis- 

 tinctive character of the second tarsal joint in the present genus 

 clearly led Rehn to refer the species incorrectly to the Forficulidse, 

 but Burr's erection of a new genus for hogotensis is unwarranted 

 and would not have occurred had comparisons been made. 



The species has the general facies, head, proximal antennal joint, 

 tegmina, wings, tarsal joints and general character of proximal 

 dorsal abdominal segments, pygidium and forceps as typical for 

 Spongiphora. In this genus, the second tarsal joint is nearly as 

 long as the third and both are enlarged; the second is, however, 

 hardly broader than the third and, enlarging suddenly in the proximal 

 portion, does not form the heart-shaped lobe characteristic of the 

 Forficulidse. The roughness of the abdominal surface in hogotensis, 

 and particularly of the specialized ultimate dorsal segment, are 

 striking features of specific value. The tarsal joints are thickly 

 supplied with hairs ventrad, as in croceipennis, these hairs, however, 

 being coarser in the present species. 

 Microvostox basalis (Burr). 



1912. Spongovostox basalis Burr, Ann. k.-k. Naturhist. Hofmus. Wien, XXVI, 

 p. 337, fig. 16. ["El Zumbador" = El Tumbador, San Marcos, Guate- 

 mala.] 



Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala, III, 27 to IV, 26, 1906, 

 (Barber and Schwarz), 3c?, 2 9 ," 5 juv.,MU. S. N. M.]. 



Burr's figure is excellent. Though the males of this species and 

 of M. hilineatus (Scudder) are extremely different, the females are 

 by no means easily separated. Those before us of basalis have the 

 pygidium with disto-lateral projections smaller and very slender, 

 the proximal dorso-internal brief shelf of the forceps as broad 

 proximad as distad, the metazona entirely translucent"^ and the 

 longitudinal pale bands at the tegminal shoulders and proximo- 

 external pale areas of the exposed portion of the wings yellowish. 

 In females of bilineatus the disto-lateral projections of the pygidium 

 are acute-angulate, but scarcely project caudad of the distal margin, 

 the proximal dorso-internal brief shelf of the forceps narrows proxi- 

 mad, the pronotum is only slightly paler narrowly laterad on the 

 metazona and the pale markings of the tegmina and wings are pale 

 buffy. 



* Recorded, in 1907, by Caudell as Spongophora pygmwa, and a pair of the same 

 series by Burr, in 19i0, as Spongophora ghilianii. 



^ Kecorded by Caudell, in 190/, as Sparatta flavipennula. 

 ^" This naturally more noticeable laterad. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. - 239 



LABIINiE. 



Labia barberi*' new species. PI. XVI, fig. 4. 



1907. Labia hilincata Caudell, (not of Scudder, 1869), Proc. U. S. Nat. 



Mus., XXXIII, p. 173. [Cacao, Trece Agua.s, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala.] 

 1910. Labia bilineata Burr, (not of Scudder, 1869), Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 



XXXVIII, p. 453. (Same specimen.) 



The marking of pronotum and organs of flight are similar to those 

 found in Microvostox hilineatus (Scudder)/- the male of which species 

 was unknown at the time this specimen was recorded by Caudell 

 and Burr. 



The present species is an aberrant member of the Championi 

 Group. It is distinctive in the remarkably large eyes and features 

 of the male pygidium and forceps. 



Type: (f ; Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala. April 

 20, 1906. (Barber and Schwarz.) [U. S. National :Museum."i 



Size" very small, form slender. Head smooth, shining, convex, 

 but with occiput weakly bilobate, due to presence of a distinct meclio- 

 longitudinal suture caudad. Eyes large, fully twice as long as 

 cheeks. ^^ Antennse with first joint large, nearly as long as combined 

 length of second and third joints; second joint minute; third elongate j 

 expanding slightly only distad; fourth three-quarters as long as third; 

 fifth slightly longer than fourth; succeeding joints increasing slightly 

 in length distad, ovate, the longest slightly more than twice as long 

 as broad. Pronotum with form as in L. micans Hebard, smooth, 

 with a single bristle at each cephalic angle, length appreciably less 

 than greatest (caudal) width; caudal margin feebly convex; median 

 portion of surface weakly convex, triangular, with apex truncate at 

 caudal margin of pronotum, remaining narrow lateral portions 

 deplanate, feebly ascendent toward lateral margins. Tegmina and 

 wings fully developed; smooth, shining, hairless. Abdomen polished, 

 moderately well supplied with hairs laterad; disto-lateral portions 

 of segments not produced, except of eighth, which is broadly rounded. 

 Ultimate dorsal abdominal segment smooth; caudal margin trans- 

 verse between forceps, feebly concave laterad. Pygidium twice as 

 long as mesal width, weakly declivent, convex, with disto-lateral 

 productions deplanate; lateral margins of proximal portion parallel, 

 but each showing a brief convexity ; distal portion bifurcate, forming 

 two large, acute-angulate, slightly divergent projections, whose 



11 We take pleasure in naming this interesting species for its collector, our 

 friend Mr. H. S. Barber, an enthusiastic collector and entomological student. 



12 See Hebard, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLIII, (1917). 



1' The large eyes are remarkable in the genus Labia. A closer approach to the 

 condition here found, is met with in species of the genus Microvostox. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jime, 



margins show a very weak convexity. Forceps nearly straight, 

 showing a weak and regular inward curvature in distal half; surface 

 well supplied with hairs; shaft triquetrous in proximal half, with 

 internal perpendicular face deplanate and ventro-internal margin 

 feebly cingulate, bearing at its distal extremity a very minute but 

 distinct tooth, for one-third the remaining distance the shaft is 

 cylindrical, thence to the aciculate apex flattened cylindrical, with 

 ventro-internal margin again feebly cingulate. Penultimate ventral 

 abdominal segment with distal margin weakly convex laterad, 

 feebly and broadly concave mesad. Caudal metatarsus equal to 

 combined length of second and third tarsal joints. 



Length of body, 3.67; of pronotum, .68; of tegmen, 1.29; of 

 exposed portion of wing, .7; of forceps, 1.36; Avidth of pronotum, 

 .75 mm. 



Head and abdomen shining blackish chestnut brown; median 

 portion of pronotum, tegmina and wings slightly paler. Lateral 

 portions of pronotum, shoulders of tegmina in an elongate maculation 

 and exposed portion of wings proximo-laterad in a rounded macula- 

 tion, warm buff. Forceps ochraceous-tawny. Limbs buffy; femora, 

 in all but distal portion, suffused with chestnut brown. 



The type is unique. 



Labia curvicauda (Motschuloky). 



1863. Forficelisa curvicauda Motschulsky, Bull. Soc. Nat. Moscou, XXXVI, 

 p. 2, PL II, fig. 1. [Nura-Ellia Mountains, Ceylon.] 



Trinidad, British West Indies, VI, 1905, (A. Busck), Icf," [U. S. N. M.]. 



Labia arcuata Scudder. PI. XVI, fig. 6. 



1876. Labia arcuata Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 257. 

 [Vassouras, 100 miles north of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala, III, 24 to IV, 20, 1906, 



(Barber and Schwarz), 4d^, 1 9 .^'^ [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Port Limon, Costa Rica, (F. Knab), 1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Carillo, Costa Rica, (Schild and Burgdorf), 19,^*' [U. S. N. M.]. 



Labia nodifer^^ new species. PI. XVI, fig. 5. 



1907. Labia arcuata Caudell, (in part not of Scudder, 1876), Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., XXXIII, p. 173. [Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, 

 Guatemala.] 



The present insect is very closely related to Labia arcuata Scudder, 



" Recorded in 1907 by Caudell as Labia trinitatis. 



1^ Correctly recorded in 1907 by Caudell, but the series of the following species 

 there included under this name. 



^* Recorded by Rehn in 1903 as Labia annulata, of which he considered arcuata 

 a synonym. 



1^ In allusion to the knobbed tooth of the male forceps. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



agreeing fully in general appearance and structure, except in the 

 following characters. The large series before us, though showing 

 frequent slight individual variations, contains no specimen showing 

 a tendency toward arcuata. 



A. cf. Seventh, eighth and ninth dorsal abdominal segments 

 rather sharply produced and distinctly keeled. Pygidium with 

 lateral angles produced in minute, acute, conical projections. Forceps 

 with inner tooth showing an enlarged and knob-like apex.^^ 



9 . Pygidium with lateral angles produced in slender, almost 

 aciculate projections, each nearly one-third as long as the distance 



between their bases Labia nodijer new species 



A A. d^. Eighth and ninth dorsal" abdominal segments weakly 

 produced and keeled. Pygidium with lateral angles produced in 

 moderately stout, acute, conical projections. Forceps with inner 

 tooth tapering to acute apex. 



9 . Pygidium with lateral angles produced in minute, acute points, 

 each scarcely longer than its proximal width Labia arcuata Scudder 



In addition to the diagnostic characters given above, we would 

 add the following to the description of the species. 



Type: cf ; Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala. April 

 26, 1906. (Barber and Schwarz.) [U. S. National Museum.] 



Size minute, form moderately robust. Entire insect thickly 

 covered with microscopic hairs. Head with vertex moderately 

 convex, showing a very feeble medio-longitudinal suture. Eyes 

 decidedly less than cheeks in length. Antennae with first joint 

 equalling combined length of second and third joints; second quad- 

 rate; third elongate; fourth about three-quarters as long as third; 

 fifth nearly as long as third; succeeding joints elongate ovate, the 

 longest over four times as long as broad. Tegmina and wings 

 normal for group. Scent glands distinct, but not strongly developed. 

 Pygidium perpendicular, broader than long; surface very feebly 

 bilobate, with few subobsolete rugae; lateral margins feebly and 

 evenly convergent distad; caudal margin, between disto-lateral 

 projections, feebly concave. Forceps strongly bowed, enclosing a 

 mitre-shaped area, as broad as long when the arms touch at their 

 apices; excavate in median internal portion, proximad with a decided 

 longitudinal flange and just beyond its extremity is situated ventrad 

 a decided tooth. Ventral surface of abdomen thickly covered with 



1* The proximal ventro-internal flange of the forceps varies in intensity in both 

 nodijer and arcuata, but shows an average more decided development in the latter 

 species. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



minute, short hairs. Penultimate ventral abdominal segment with 

 distal margin broadly convex between the forceps. Caudal meta- 

 tarsus elongate and slender, distinctly longer than combined length 

 of second and third tarsal joints. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type, but taken March 29, 1906. [U. S. 

 National Museum.] 



Agrees with male except in the feature noted above and as follows : 

 Pygidium subrectangulate, slightly broader than long, lateral margins 

 very feebly and evenly convergent distad. Forceps widely 

 separated ;^^ shaft slender, simple, cylindrical, tapering and weakly 

 incurved in distal half to the aciculate apex. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Length of 

 cf body. pronotum. pronotum. legmen. forceps. 



Cordoba, Mexico 5.4 .82 .82 L63 L16 



Type. Cacao 4.7 .8 .8 L6 L22 



ParaY(/pes. (7) Cacao., 3.8-5.2 .71-.77 .73-.78 L44-L3 L09-L16 



9 



Fortin, Mexico 5. .88 .7 1.65 L63 



Allotype. Cacao 4.4 .75 .68 L45 L38 



Paratypes. (11) Cacao 4. -4.8 .75-.81 .7 -.82 1.36-1.5 1.22-1.29 



The series shows quite marked individual size variation. This is 

 greatest in pronotal proportions and length of. forceps. 



Head dark brown, antenna) with proximal joints dark, one or two 

 distal joints pale. Pronotum, tegmina and wings shining black, 

 weakly metallic, showing a faint bluish lustre in some lights. Limbs 

 dark brown, becoming slightly paler toward the apex of the femora 

 and base of the tibiae.'^ 



Specimens Examined: 22; 8 males, 13 females and 1 immature 

 individual. 



Fortin, Vera Cruz, Mexico, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 19, [Hebard 

 Cln.]. 



Cordoba, Vera Cruz, Mex., Ill, 1908, (F. Knab; in bromeUads), 

 Icf, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta Vera Paz, Guatemala, III, 29, and 

 IV, 26, 1906, (Barber and Schwarz), To", 12 9 , tyjje, allotype, para- 

 types, 1 juv., [U. S. N. M.l. 



i' See PL XVI, fig. 7. 



2" In some individuals the contrast is more decided than in others. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Prolabia modesta (Bnmer). 



190G. Labia modesla Briiner, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XIV, p. 137.2i 

 [Trinidad.] 



The unique female type of this species is now before us and is 

 found to represent a species of the Unidentata Group of the genus 

 Prolabia. 



It shows very close relationship to the recently described Prolabia 

 dominicce Hebard, differing from females of that species in the 

 decidedly larger size, exposed portion of wings with a large proximo- 

 external yellowish huffy spot and ultimate dorsal abdominal segment 

 with a few minute rugae in the medio-distal depressed area, before 

 the marginal row of minute rugse, which row is broken mesad. The 

 males will probably show much more decided differences between 

 these species. 



The measurements of this type are: length of body 7.5, of pronotum 

 1.2, of tegmen 2.1, of exposed portion of wing 1.4, of forceps 2.2; 

 width of pronotum 1.15, greatest width of abdomen 1.8 mm. 



Both modesta and dominicce are distinctive in the females having 

 no large, blunt, dorso-proximal projection on the internal face of 

 the forceps. 



Prolabia ascensionis new species. PI. XVI, figs. S, 9. 



This small insect, which is shining reddish brown with a pale spot 

 on the exposed portion of each wing, is of the characteristic color 

 type of the Unidentata Group of the genus Labia and of numerous 

 species of the Spongiphorince. 



The male pygidium is quadrate as in P. arachidis, but with distal 

 portion differently sculptured and the forceps, though bidentate, 

 much as is normal in that species, are less flattened. ' The insect is 

 smaller and distinctly less robust than arachidis and does not have 

 the befouled, greasy appearance of that insect. 



Type: cf ; Ascension Island, South Atlantic. [Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology.] 



Size rather small; form moderately robust, but not nearly as robust 

 as arachidis. Head much as in that species, sutures subobsolete. 

 Antennae (in series with eleven to thirteen joints), with third about 

 equal in length to first, fourth slightly over half as long as third; 



21 Professor Bruner has very kindly sent for examination the types of the 

 species of Dermaptera described by him in this paper. The synonymy will be 

 discussed under the species involved, in the series of dermapterological studies 

 about to appear, the names being assignable as follows: 



Labia modesta = Prolabia modesta (Bruner). 



Labia pictipennis = Spandex percheron (Guerin and Pereheron). 



Labia insularis = Vostox brunneipennis fServille). 



Labia trinitatis = Labia dorsalis (Burmeister). 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^, 



succeeding joints pyriform, the longest about three times as long as 

 broad. Pronotum subquadrate; lateral margins cingulate and very 

 feebly diverging caudad, caudal angles more broadly rounded than 

 cephalic angles, caudal margin very weakly convex; prozona weakly 

 convex, metazona subdeplanate, very weakly convex caudad. Teg- 

 mina fully developed, nearly twice as long as pronotum; wings fully 

 developed, extending beyond tegmina distinctly more than pronotal 

 length, costal margin rounding broadly distad to sutural margin. 

 Dorsal abdominal segments with third showing very weakly devel- 

 oped stink glands, fourth with these glands slightly larger, eighth 

 and ninth segments feebly produced dorso-laterad with margin 

 there convex. Ultimate dorsal abdominal segment smooth, tri- 

 angularly weakly concave meso-distad, not three times as broad as 

 long, rectangular, with caudal margin truncate. Pygidium quadrate, 

 feebly declivent; surface in minute proximo-mesal area triangularly 

 feebly concave, thence feebly convex on each side, with surface 

 showing minute, scattered projections; lateral margins almost parallel, 

 with a few, minute median projections, very feebly convex to disto- 

 lateral angles, which are terminated by a small point; thence the 

 distal margin on each side is briefly very weakly oblique to small 

 rounded knobs, between which the median portion, comprehending 

 over half the distal margin, is feebly concave. Forceps much as in 

 arachidis, cylindrical, moderately flattened horizontally, but not as 

 much as in that species; shaft feebly convex, with ventro-internal 

 margin feebly lamellate to just beyond pygidium, this lamella there 

 terminating in a minute tooth, directed caudad, and with a similar 

 tooth, but perpendicular to the shaft, slightly more than half the 

 distance from the proximal tooth to the apex. Caudal metatarsus 

 appreciably longer than combined length of second and third tarsal 

 joints, ventral surface well supplied with hairs. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology.] 



Agrees with type except in the following features. Pygidium much 

 as in this sex of arachidis, very briefly and broadly triangularly 

 deplanate proximad, thence with surface declivent and concave, 

 produced ventrad between the forceps in a small, subquadrate 

 projection, with disto-lateral angles produced in minute, conical 

 projections and ventral surface very feebly convex and rugulose. 

 Forceps straight to near apex, feebly triquetrous, enlarged at base, 

 thus embracing the pygidium, thence tapering to the moderately 

 incurved apices, with internal face and ventral margin supplied with 

 a few blunt tubercles. 




1917.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Exposed length Length 



cf body. pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. of wing. of forceps. 



Type .6.6 L2 L25 2. 1.5 2.8 



Paralype...Q.b L2 L25 2.1 1.4 2.7 



? 



Allotype 6.1 1.1 1.2 2.1 1.3 1.9 



General coloration (dried after immersion in alcohol) shining 

 chestnut brown, with distal portion of abdomen and, in the type, the 

 tegmina paler. Wings with exposed surface warm buff, with apex 

 and sutural margin chestnut brown. Femora, except brief distal 

 portion, chestnut brown. Tibiae, tarsi and brief distal portion of 

 femora paler, suffused warm buff. 



Specimens Examined. — 3; 2 males and 1 female. 



Ascension Island, South Atlantic, 2d^, 19, type, allotype, paratype^ 

 [M. C. Z. and Hebard Cln.]. 



Prolabia arachidis (Yersin). 



1860. Forficula arachidis Yersin, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, (3), VIII, p. 509, 

 PI. X, figs. 33 to 35. [ [Adventive at] Marseilles, France.] 



Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 11, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; on open savannah). 

 Id", [A. M.iN. H.]. 



This specimen agrees fully with the North American series before 



us of this unpleasant domiciliary insect. 



Sphingolabis hawaiensis Bormans. 



1882. F[orficvIa] hawaiensis Bormans, Ann. Mus. Stor. Nat. Genova,. 



XVIII, p. 341. [Different Hawaiian Islands.] 

 Sapit, Lombok, Lesser Sunda Islands, 2000 meters, IV, 1896, (for Fruh- 



storfer), Ic?, [Hebard Cln.]. 



The species has already been recorded from Lombok, by Bormans. 



SPARATTIN^. 



Sparatta pygidiata Kirby. 



1896. Sparatta pygidiata Kirby, Jour. Linn. Soc. Lond., Zool., XXV, 

 p. 527, PI. XX, figs. 10 and 10a. [Rio [de Janeiro, Brazil].] 



Kaiteur, British Guiana, VIII, 12, 1911, (F. E. Lutz; taken sifting), 3 9, 

 [A. M. N. H. and Hebard Cln.]. 



We refer these specimens to pygidiata with doubt. We feel that 

 the genus Sparatta will be found to include a great number of yet 

 undescribed species. The synonymy and association of species 

 under Sparatta, Parasparatta and Prosparatta, given by Burr in the 

 Genera Insectorum, shows a number of serious errors. The specimens 

 before us do not agree with Brazilian material in the Academy 

 collection of S. clarkii and S. semirufa. Males of the present insect 

 may show it to be not pygidiata, but an undescribed species. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



The females have head and pronotum dark, moderately shining; 

 the tegmina and wings shining black, with a metallic, purplish sheen. 

 The pygidium is deelivent proximad, the ventral portion produced, 

 quadrate, with distal margin truncate, but showing three small, 

 triangular productions. The forceps have a decided lamellate 

 production of the internal margin which ceases abruptly at the base 

 of the strongly incurved apices, this margin armed with a blunt 

 median tooth and with minute denticulations in proximal half, these 

 more numerous proximad. The caudal tibiae are armed disto-ventrad 

 with two minute, but stout, spines. The caudal metatarsus is shorter 

 than the third tarsal joint, and has the ventral surface fringed 

 internally with a row of lamellate plates (agglutenated hairs) and 

 externally with a row of minute, but stout, spines. Length of body, 

 8.2 to 8.5; of forceps 2.2 to 2.3 mm. 



FORFICULID^. 



ANECHURIXiE. 



Allodahlia macropyga (West wood). 



1839. Forficula macro-pyga Westwood, Rovle'.s Illustr. Himalaya, Intr., 



p. 53, PL IX, fig. 12. [ [Himalaya Mountains.] 1 

 Chandkhira, Sylhet, Assam. 1 adult (forceps missing), [Hebard Cln.]. 



This specimen shows a striking color variation, with exposed 

 surfaces of wings pale buff}'. This condition has also been found in 

 A. scabriuscula . 



FORFICULIX.E. 



Doru luteipenne (Serville). 



1839. Foriicida luteipennis Serville, Hist. Xat. Ins., Orth., p. 46. [9, 

 Brazil.] 



Rio Caiarv-Uaupes, Amazonas, Brazil, 1906, (H. Schmidt), ItJ' 

 [A. M. X": H.]. 



Chanchamayo, Peru, 1 9 , [A. X. S. P.]. 



Doru lineare (Eschscholtz). 



1822. Forficula linearis Eschscholtz, Entomogr., p. 81. [Santa Catharina, 

 Brazil.] 



Chanchamayo, Peru, 1 9 , [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Forficula auricularia Linnseus. 



1758. [Forficula] auricularia Linnseus, Sysl. Nat., Ed. X, I, p. 423. 

 [Europe.] 



Numandorp, South Holland, Xetherlands, VII, 16, 1908, (M. Hebard; 



colony under board), Sd", 19. 5 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. 

 La Guerche, Cher. France, VIII, 17, 1906, (M. Hebard; under leaves and 



moss in forest), 1 juv. [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Gerardmer. Vosges, France, VIII, 17, 1906, (M. Hebard), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



ANCISTROGASTRIN.E. 



LITOCOSMIA" new genus. 



This genus agrees with Osteulcus alone, of the genera of the present 

 subfamily, in the male penultimate ventral abdominal segment 

 lacking projecting processes, but differs from that genus in the form 

 of this segment, the tegmina which are not keeled beyond the shoul- 

 ders and in having the seventh dorsal abdominal segment alone 

 specialized laterad, not considering the stink glands.-^ The abdomen, 

 with greatest width mesad, gives a superficial resemblance to Mixo- 

 cosmia. The evenly and not strongly arcuate forceps suggest the 

 type found in some species of Paracosmia, but are more simple. 



Genotype. — Litocosmia roraimce new species. 



Generic Characters. — Head feebly depressed meso-caudad. First 

 antennal joint equal to coml^ined length of second, third and fourth 

 joints; fourth joint distinctly longer than third. Pronotum sub- 

 quadrate; cephalic margin transverse, with lateral angles rather 

 sharply rectangulate, caudal margin convex. Tegmina keeled only 

 at shoulders. Abdomen gradually widening to seventh dorsal 

 segment, thence gradually narrowing; stink glands of third segment 

 well developed, of fourth segment strongly developed, tubular; 

 seventh segment with a dorso-lateral oblique, rounded ridge on each 

 side, ascending cephalad; other segments simple. Pygidium minute, 

 simple. Forceps not complex in structure. Penultimate ventral 

 abdominal segment rectangular, disto-lateral angles broadly rounded, 

 distal margin transverse. Limbs- elongate and slender; caudal 

 metatarsus slightly longer than third tarsal joint, its ventral surface 

 and that of second tarsal joint, hairy. 



We believe the correct linear position of this genus to be after 

 Sarakas and before Mixocosmia, then Paracosmia. 

 Litocosmia roraimae new species. P!. XVI, figs. 10, 11. 



Type: cf ; Ireng River to Roraima, Brazil. August 18, 1911. 

 (Crampton) [American Museum of Natural History.] 



Size medium, form elongate and slender, with greatest abdominal 



^^ From /i~'i = pimple. 



'-' We are not as certain as we would like to be that the species, or at least the 

 genotype, of Burr's genus Sarakas, will not also be found to have a simple male 

 penultimate ventral abdominal segment. This segment is not described in the 

 original descriptions. The genus is assigned to the opposite categor.v in Bui-r's 

 key in the Genera Inseclorum, but we have already found this same key to be 

 elsewhere misleading. From the description of the genotype, Sarakas devians 

 (Dohrn), it appears that Litocosmia is at least separable by the dilated abdomen^ 

 with lateral portions of sixth and eighth dorsal segments unspecialized, and 

 the much more simple type of forceps. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



width mesad. Head'-^ with paired impressions dorso-mesad of anten- 

 nal sockets weakly indicated; eyes longer than cheeks. Pronotum 

 narrower than head, with a weak medio-longitudinal sulcus; prozona 

 moderately convex, lateral portions of metazona strongly ascendent 

 to lateral margins, caudal portion feebly convex; lateral margins 

 parallel. Tegmina and wings fully developed. Dorsal surface of 

 abdomen convex; ultimate segment with sides straight and very 

 feebly convergent caudad, surface weakly convex, except meso- 

 distad where it is very feebly concave and distad on each side above 

 the base of the forceps is found a more convex area, at each of which 

 areas the distal margin is weakly convex. Pygidium declivent, 

 longer than broad, rectangulato-oval. Forceps elongate and slender; 

 ■shaft evenly and not strongly curved, moderately flattened cylin- 

 drical, stout proximad with a heavy truncate tooth, thence narrow 

 in proximal third to a sharp medio-internal tooth, this portion with a 

 row of minute, well spaced projections, thence the shaft is unarmed 

 and of equal width to the slight internal swelling near the apex, 

 from which point it tapers rapidly and curves more decidedly to the 

 acute apex.^^ 



Length of body 10.2, of pronotum 1.6, of tegmen 3.6, of exposed 

 portion of Aving 1.8, of forceps 4.4; width of pronotum 1.6, greatest 

 width of abdomen 2.7, of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment 2.1 mm. 



Coloration of head, prozona and dorsal surface of abdomen tawny. 

 Metazona, tegmina, exposed portion of wings, limbs and underparts 

 ochraceous tawny. Forceps dull chestnut. 



The type of this interesting species is unique. 



Osteulcus kervillei (Burr). 



1905. Ancistrogaster kervillei Burr, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (7), XVI, p. 490. 

 [Region of Merida, Venezuela.] 



jMerida, Venezuela, 1 c?, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 This topotype agrees in every way with Burr's original description, 

 €xcept in having the tegmina not carinate and in being somewhat 

 larger than the maximum in the type series. There is no room for 

 doubt that the present insect represents this species. In consequence, 

 the characterization of the tegmina as keeled and Burr's figure,'^ 

 showing this condition strikingly developed, are either incorrect 



^^ The features given in the generic diagnosis are not repeated in this descrip- 

 tion. 



^'^ The form of the distal portion resembles a weakly curved claw. This general 

 type is probably characteristic of all tiie species properly referable to the Ancis- 

 trogastrinse. 



-''Genera Insedorum, Fasc. 122, Dermaptera, PI. VII, fig. 18, (1911). 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



or great variation occurs in the species in this usually constant 

 feature. The present specimen has the tegminal shoulders rather 

 sharply rounded, but a lateral keel is subobsolete and the tegmina 

 should best be termed not keeled. 



As noted above, the genus agrees with Litocosmia, alone of the 

 genera of the Ancistrogastrinse, in having a simple penultimate ven- 

 tral abdominal segment in the male, but in the specialization of the 

 dorsal abdominal segments shows much closer affinity to the Ancis- 

 trogaster type, being nearest Praos in this respect, before which 

 genus, in linear arrangement, we would place Osteidcus. The forceps 

 are distinctive and remarkable. 



OPISTHOCOSMIINiE. 



Kleter aterrimus (Bormans). 



1883. A[ncistrogaster] aierrimus Bormans, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXVII, 

 p. 83, PI. Ill, fig. 18. [Ecuador.] 



Rio Charape, Peru, IX, 14, 1911, (C. H. T. Townsend), Id", [U. S. N. M.j. 



This specimen is very slightly larger than the type, with the 

 description of which it agrees throughout. The figure is exceedingly 

 crude. 



Except for the much broader last dorsal abdominal segment, a 

 general superficial resemblance to the species of Skalistes is shown. 



Eparchus burri (Bormans). 



1903. Opisthocosmia burri Bormans, in Burr, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (7), 

 XI, p. 267. [Lompa Battau, South Celebes, at 3000 meters.] 



Bua-Kraeng, South Celebes, 5000 meters, II, 1896, (for H. Fruhstorfer), Icf , 

 [Hebard Chi.]. 



The original description is very brief; valuable comparisons are 



later made by Burr.-' 



Explanation of Plate XVI. 



Fig. 1. — Forcipula despinosa new species. d', type. Northern India. 



Dorsal outhne. (X 2.16). 

 Fig. 2. — Pseudisolabis elegans new species, d, type. Kulu, Kangra, India. 



Dorsal outline. (X 4). 

 Fig. 3. — Pseudisolabis elegans new species. 9 , allotype. Kuki, Kangra, 



India. Dorsal outhne of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment and forceps. 



(X 10). 

 Fig. 4. — Labia barberi new species, cf , type. Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta 



Vera Paz, Guatemala. Dorsal outhne. (X 14). 

 Fig. 5. — Labia nodifer new species, cf , type. Cacao, Trece Aguas, Alta 



Vera Paz, Guatemala. Dorsal outhne. (X 13). 

 Fig. 6. — Labia arcuata Scudder. cf , type. Vassouras, ISIinas Geraes, 



Brazil. Dorsal view of distal dorsal abdominal segments and forceps. 



(X 7.7). 



^^ Fauna British India, Dermapt., p. 194, (1910). 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC;. 



Fig. 7. — Labia rotundata Scudder. 9 , type. Mexico. Dorsal outline of 

 ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, pygidium and forceps.^' (X 8). 



Fig. 8. — Prolabia ascensionis new species. 6^, type. Ascension Island, 

 South Atlantic. Dorsal outline. (X 8). 



Fig. 9. — Prolabia ascensionis new species. 9 , allotype. Ascension Island, 

 South Atlantic. Dorsal outline of ultimate dorsal abdominal segment, 

 pygidium and forceps. (X 7.4). 



Fig. 10.— Litocosmia roraimce new species, cf, type. Ireng River to 

 Roraima, Brazil. Dorsal outline. (X 4.5). 



Fig. 11. — Litocosmia roraimce new species, cf, type. Ireng River to 

 Roraima, Brazil. Ventral outline of: — A. Penultimate Ventral Abdomi- 

 nal Segment. B. Portions of Ultimate Dorsal Abdominal vSegment 

 folded over Subgenital Plate. C. One of the halves of the cleft Sub- 

 genital Plate. Mesad is the ventral surface of the pygidium, between 

 the bases of the forceps. 



2' This figure is given to show the widely separated type of forceps, found also 

 in both nodiftr and arcuata. 




1917.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 251 



NOTES ON MEXICAN MELANOPLI. 

 (Orthoptera; Acrididse.) 



BY MORGAN HEBARD. 



In preparing a Revision of the Melanopli of North America, north 

 of IMexico, it has been found necessary to consider all of the Mexican 

 material at hand. We have before us the greater portion of the 

 important material, including almost all the types, described by 

 Scudder in his Revision of the Orthopteran Group Melanopli and 

 by Bruner in the Biologia Centrali- Americana; the papers here 

 referred to being the most important single contributions to the 

 knowledge of this group for Mexico. The Philadelphia collections 

 contain other types and important series previously recorded from 

 ^Mexico. In addition, we have fortunately been able to assemble 

 nearly all the recently collected Mexican Melanopli and take the 

 present opportunity to record the same. 



It is clear that great numbers of species of the Melanopli, found in 

 the southern portions of the United States, will be found in northern 

 JNIexico, but as yet have not been taken in that country. In fact, the 

 Melanopli assembled show that generally casual collecting has been 

 done, a very few localities fairly well investigated, wdiile vast areas 

 still remain virtually unknown for this group. The last condition 

 is particularly true for all the regions of Mexico adjacent to the 

 United States. We would hesitate to report on collections so evi- 

 dently incomplete were it not necessary to point out the considerable 

 synonymy proven by the series at hand. 



Five genera and ten species are shown to be synonymic in the 

 present paper. A single new species is described. Four hundred 

 and thirty-nine specimens, representing fourteen genera and thirty- 

 six species, are here considered. 



The superficial character of Scudder 's Revision is best shown by 

 the array of errors in his treatment of the species of the United States. 

 The errors applicable to Mexican material, for which he erected two 

 generic and six specific synonyms, did not come as a surprise after 

 the other portions of his work had been studied.^ 



1 The new genera and species, described by Scudder in his Revision (December 

 28, 1897), all actuallj^ date from the key which was separately printed in advance, 

 in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XXXVI, pp. 5 to 35, 

 (April 5, 1897). 

 18 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



We wish to express our cordial thanks to the curators of the 

 collections of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, United States 

 National Museum, American Museum of Natural History, and Field 

 Museum of Natural History for the loan of material. We are 

 particularly indebted to Dr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum of 

 Comparative Zoology, for permitting us to have for comparison and 

 study the types from the Scudder Collection, without which we would 

 have been unable to undertake the present work. 



Netrosoma fusiforme Scudder. 



1897. Aetrosoma fusiformis Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 17, 



PI. II, fig. 2. [Monclova {nee Montelovez-), Coahuila {nee Chihuahua'), 



Mexico.] 

 1908. Netrosoma fusiforme Brunei-, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 300. 



(Same material.) 

 19i0. N[etroso7na\ uniformis Kirby, Syn. Cat. Orth., Ill, p. 486. (Lapsus 



calami.) 

 Monclova, Coahuila, XI, 23, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic^, 2 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



These strikingly beautiful examples are in no way different from 

 paratypes now before us. 



Netrosoma nigropleura Scudder. 



1897. Netrosoma nigropleura Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 18, 



PL II, fig. 3. [Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.] 

 1908. Netrosoma nigropleurum Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 300. 



(Same material.) 

 Jaral, Coahuila, XI, 1 to 3, 1909, (J. Friesser), 1 9 , [Field Mus. Nat. Hist.]. 



The size contrast between the sexes of the present species is even 

 greater than in N. fusiforme. The female is also very different from 

 the male type, in the Hebard Collection, in being almost solid rood's 

 brown in general coloration, the two darker bands of the caudal 

 femora being only very faintly indicated dorsad. As in the male, 

 the caudal tibiae are pompeian red, this weaker externally proximad. 

 The measurements of this female are as follows; length of body 20.8, 

 length of pronotum 4.7, greatest (caudal) width of pronotum 6.1, 

 length of caudal femur 11.6, width of caudal femur 3.5 mm. In the 

 male type the length of the caudal femur is 8.8, its width 2.8 mm. 



DichroplUS notatUS Bruner. 



1908. Dichroplus notntus Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 301. 



[cf , 9 ; Arnula, Guerrero, Mexico, 6000 feet.] 

 Cuernavaca, Morelos, 1905, (VV. L. Tower), 1 9, [Tower Cln.]. 



This specimen is slightly larger than a cotypic female in the 

 Hebard Collection, being 19.7 mm. in length, and is more richly 



- This error appears repeatedly in Scudder's revision, due to the incorrect entry 

 of Palmer's assorting number 1221 in the book used by Scudder. 



^ Scudder in some places gives Chihuahua incorrectly as the State, in other 

 places he is more nearly correct, giving "Cohahuila. " 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



colored. In both specimens the greater portion of the caudal femora 

 is deep bluish glaucous. 



PEDIES Saussure. 



1861. Pedies Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XIII, p. 1.57. 

 1893. Paradichroplus Brunner,'* Revis. Syst. Orth., Ann. ]\Ius. Genova, 

 XXXIII, p. 145. 



Careful study of the literature and study of. the specimens dis- 

 cussed below, proves to our full satisfaction the above synonymy. 

 Saussure's description, though very brief, gives nearly all the features 

 of importance. The efforts of Scudder and Bruner to locate Pedies 

 virescens, the genotype by monotypy, have been decidedly incorrect^ 

 their supposition being that the position of the species was near 

 Dactylotum. At the time Paradichroplus was described Brunner 

 ignored the genus Pedies. 



We would note that, from material before us, three species, mexi- 

 canus (Brunner), variabilis (Bruner) and andeamis (Caudell), in 

 addition to the genotype, are referable to Pedies; but that nigrigena 

 Rehn and hrunneri, jusijormis and bipundatus all of Giglio-Tos, 

 assigned originally to Paradichroplus, can not properlj^ be placed in 

 the present genus. 



Striking features in the genus Pedies, as given by Saussure, are: 

 the strongly declivent and convex face; the sub-bicarinate frontal 

 costa; the conoid-arcuate apex of the head; the pronotum with strong 

 percurrent median carina cut weakly by the principal transverse 

 sulcus, with distinct percurrent lateral carinse and with caudal margin 

 distinctly emarginate, and male genitalia of the characteristic type 

 found in Dichroplus and allied genera.^ 



Pedies mexicanus (Brunner). 



1861. Platyphyma mexicanum Brunner, Verh. k.-k. Zool.-bot. Gesellsch. 



Wien, 1861, p. 224. [ 9 , Mount Orizaba, ^Mexico, "au pied de la neige."l 

 Mount Orizaba, 11500 feet, III, 189.3, (western slope), 2cf , 2 juv. d', [Hebard 



Cln.]. 



An additional dried alcoholic female from the United States 

 National Museum, without exact data, is at hand. 



The prosternal spine in this insect is broadly truncate, cuneiform. 



** This genus was described without type designation; the type by first subse- 

 quent fixation is Platyphyma mexicanus Brunner, selected by Kirbv, Syn. Cat. 

 Orth., Ill, p. 492, (1910). 



^ Certain of these features are not indicated in the aberrant P. variabilis 

 (Bruner), see p. 254. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Pedies variabilis (Scudder). 



1897. Melanoplus variabilis Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 319, 

 PI. XXI, fig. 8. [cf , 9 ; Mexico City and Queretaro, Mexico.]. 



Ocotlan, Jalisco, 5000 feet, VIII, 29 to IX, 1, 1906, (P. P. Calvert), 1 iuv. 9 , 



[A. N. S. P.]. 

 Yurecuaro, Michoacan, 5000 feet, IX, 4, 1906, (P. P. Calvert), Icf , [A. N. 



S P 1 

 Tlalpam, Distrito Federal, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 21 d^, 6 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



This insect, the single type of which is before us, is a distinctly 

 aberrant member of the present genus. Compared with P. mexicanus 

 it is found to differ in the slender, conical prosternal spine, the 

 weakly obtuse-angulate caudal margin of the pronotum, the dis- 

 tinctly less retreating face, lanceolate and overlapping tegmina and 

 distinctive male genitalia. The general structure, however, par- 

 ticularly of the head and pronotum, shows definitely a derivation 

 from the stock of P. virescens and mexicanus rather than from any of 

 the types of the genus Melanoplus.^ 



Cephalotettix pilosus (StS,!). 



1878. P(latyphyma) pilosus St&l, Bih. till k. Svensk. Vet.-Akad., Handl., 



V, No. 9, p. 10. [cf , 9 ; Mexico.] 

 1897. Cephalotettix parvulus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 31, 



PL III, fig. 1. [cf ; Atoyac and Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 

 1897. Rliabdoietliz pilosus Scudder, ibid., p. 35. [Generic assignment.] 

 1897. Melanoplus geniculatus Scudder, ibid., p. 239, PL XVI, fig. 3.Mcf, 9 ,' 



Mexico.] 



Careful comparison of Scudder's type of parvulus and his type and 

 allotype of geniculatus with Stal's description of pilosus proves the 

 synonymy given above, Stal's material apparently differing only in 

 being somewhat larger, (length 16 mm.). That size variation occurs 

 in the species is shown by the two males before us, (length 12.7 and 

 14 mm.). 



The specimens described as geniculatus have lost their natural 

 brilliant coloration from immersion in alcohol. This explains the 

 differences in Scudder's color descriptions of parvulus and geniculatus. 

 Haste and carelessness fully explain the glaring errors made by that 

 author. Unfortunately, his " Revision of the IMelanopli" shows so 

 frequent a succession of such serious errors that these would seem 

 inexplicable, were the author's superficial method of procedure not 

 known. 



The black genicular areas of the caudal femora and bases of the 



* The peculiar percurrent lateral carinse of the pronotum and character of the 

 surface of the lateral lobes are exactly as in P. mexicanus. 



^ This figure is incorrect, the subgenital plate and cerci of the specimen figured 

 being exactly as given on plate III, figure 1. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



caudal tibise are a striking and distinctive feature in the present 

 insect.^ 



PH^DROTETTIX Scudder. 



1897. PhcEdrotettix Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 22. 

 1897. Rhabdotettix Scudder, ibid., p. 32. 

 1897. Cyclocercus Scudder, ibid., p. 36. 



The genotype of Phcvdrotettix, angustipennis, is inseparable generi- 

 cally from the species of Rhabdotettix, of which palmeri is the genotype. 

 It is true that yalmeri and dumicola^ agree closely in distinctive 

 features of male genitalic development, while in both the tegmina 

 are ovate. In the other species of Phcedrotettix the tegmina are 

 linear, but this difference alone is utterly insufficient to warrant 

 generic separation. The male genitalic development shows widely 

 different features in a number of the species, this being much the 

 greatest in valgus, but in our opinion generic separation is in no case 

 warranted. 



A careful comparison of the genotype, Phcedrotettix angustipennis, 

 with accola, genotype of Cyclocercus, shows also that the latter genus 

 must fall in the present synonymy. The pronotum of accola shows 

 a very slightly heavier median carina than is found in the other 

 species of Phmdrotettix. This feature is of no generic value, nor are 

 the male genitalic features given by Scudder. In fact, were the 

 latter given generic significance it would be necessary to separate 

 gracilis and histrigata as one, litus as another, palmeri and dumicola 

 as another and valga as still another genus. 



Key to Males of the Species of Phwdrotettix. 



10 



A. Tegmina very slender, not elongate ovate or ovate. 



B. Dorsum of pronotum pale, immaculate. Distal portion of 

 abdomen not enlarged. (Fercula absent. Cerci moderately 

 elongate, slender, tapering to blunt apex. Supra-anal 

 plate elongate shield-shaped; truncate, obtuse-angulate 

 distad. Subgenital plate simple, small, scoop-shaped.) 



accola (Scudder). 



^ Scudder failed to note that the bases of the caudal tibiae were black in the 

 type of his parvidus. 



'•' The types, now before us, of Scudder's Pezotettix dumicolus and Rhabdotettix 

 concinnus show the certain synonymy of these names, the former of which has 

 prioritj'. At the time concinnus was described, Scudder referred dumicola to 

 the genus Melanoplus. 



1" This key is based on examination of the type of each species considered and 

 additional males of all except histrigata and litus, which species are known from 

 the unique type and allotj^pe. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



BB. Dorsum of pronotum dark. Distal portion of abdomen 

 enlarged. 

 C. Distal portion of abdomen slightly enlarged. (Fereula 

 present; small, broad, blmit, trigonal. Cerci moderately 

 elongate, slender, tapering to acute apex. Supra-anal 

 plate trigono-shield-shaped, with a minute dorsal tubercle 

 proximad on each side. Subgenital plate simple, small, 



scoop-shaped) gracilis (Bruner). 



CC. Distal portion of abdomen decidedly enlarged. 



D. Fereula absent. Cerci decidedly elongate, very slender 

 in distal portion but with apex blunt. Supra-anal 

 plate short, trigono-shield-shaped. Subgenital plate 

 simple, small, scoop-shaped. Pronotum with decided 



dorso-lateral pale lines histrigata (Scudder). 



DD. Fereula represented by weak and broad convexities of 



the segment. Cerci and subgenital plate specialized. 



Supra-anal plate elongate, shield-shaped. Pronotum 



without decided dorso-lateral pale lines. 



E. Supra-anal plate elongate shield-shaped, truncate 



obtuse-angulate distad, with a minute dorsal tubercle 



proximad on each side. Cerci moderately elongate, 



distal portion moderately broad, tapering sharply at 



extremity to acute ventral apex. Subgenital plate 



small, produced in a small median, marginal, blunt 



tubercle angustipennis Scudder. 



EE. Supra-anal plate elongate shield-shaped, lateral margins 

 cingulate, straight and convergent proximad, convex 

 ancl convergent distad. Cerci heavy, elongate, with 

 an acute proximal projection on ventral margin," 

 distal portion moderately broad, curving ventrad, 

 with margins at extremity weakly convex to the 

 acute apex. Subgenital plate large, the free margin 

 above the plane of the supra-anal plate, with a large, 

 very blunt, median, marginal tubercle feebly sug- 

 gested valga (Scudder). 



AA. Tegmina longer, elongate ovate. Supra-anal plate simple, 

 broadly shield-shaped. .Cerci broad. 

 B. Cerci broad, not bent inward, apex acute and situated dorsad, 

 distal margin strongly oblique. Fereula minute, bluntly 

 obtuse-angulate projections. General coloration green, 

 locally washed with red, color pattern not complex. (Sub- 

 genital plate small, simple, with distal portion the more 



strongly rounded but not tuberculate) litus new species. 



BB. Cerci bent inward at near the middle, apex evenly rounded. 

 Fereula very broad and extremely narrow plates with 

 distal margin straight. General coloration brown to green, 

 not washed with red, color pattern complex. (Pallium 

 conical, produced.) 



" This frequently projects downward between the supra-anal and subgenital 

 plates and is in this position concealed. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



C. Cerci broad throughout, distal portion narrower but not 

 slender. Pallium moderately produced. Subgenital plate 

 with a weakly suggested, blunt tubercle meso-distad at 

 the free margin. Size averaging smaller and color usually 



darker palmeri (Scudder). 



CC. Cerci broader, distal portion not as much narrower. Pal- 

 lium greatly produced. Subgenital plate with distal 

 portion evenly rounded. Size averaging larger and 

 coloration usually paler dumicola (Scudder). 



The females are less easily separated. Those of accola are dis- 

 tinctive in the pale dorsal surface of the pronotum; of arigiistipennis 

 by the small size, immaculate dorsum of pronotum and somewhat 

 maculate caudal femora; those of valga from the female allotype of 

 bistrigata only by their smaller size and less robust form. The 

 females of litus, palmeri and dumicola have the tegmina much broader 

 than in any of the other species. The female of litus is readily 

 separated by the distinctive coloration, which is similar to that of 

 the male. Those of palmeri and dumicola are separable only by 

 the usually different size and coloration as found in the males.^^ 



The species accola, palmeri and dumicola are found within the 

 United States and will be comprehensively treated in another study; 

 of these palmeri alone is known from Mexico, in which country the 

 type series was taken. 



Phaedrotettix gracilis (Bruner). 



1908. Cyclocercus gracilis Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 307. 

 [c?, Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico.] 



Tamos, Tamaulipas, XII, 7, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Icf, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Pueblo Viejo, Vera Cruz, XII, 8, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic^, [U. S. N. M.]. 



The present species shows nearest relationship to P. bistrigata. 

 The males differ in the smaller size, lack of very decided dorso-lateral 

 cephalic and pronotal pale lines, only slightly enlarged apex of 

 abdomen, presence of small, bluntly triangular furcula and less 

 elongate but even more slender cerci. The general coloration would 

 appear to differ only in the decided dorso-lateral cephalic and pronotal 

 pale lines found in the male type of bistrigata; which specimen is, 

 however, in a poor state of color preservation, having been dried 

 after immersion in alcohol. 



The male from Tamos shows individual variation in having the 

 dark dorsal and dorso-lateral surfaces of the head and pronotum 

 solid, the ventral portion of the pronotal lateral lobes buffy white 



" The female of gracilis is unknown. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JulYr 



and the furcula very slightly more produced with apices directed 

 latero-caudad. 



Phaedrotettix angustipennis Scudder. 



1897. Phcedrotettix angustipennis Scudder, (in part), Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 XX, p. 22, PL II, fig. 7. [d", 9 : Mount Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico; 

 Camacho, Zacatecas {nee Comancho, Durango) Mexico.] 



The type series is before us. The species has never been taken 

 north of Mexico, the Corpus Christi Bay, Texas, material originally 

 included being referable to P. accola. 



The much reduced tegmina are frequently absent, on one or both 

 sides, as shown by the series before us. The caudal femora of this 

 species and of accola differ from those of gracilis, bistrigata and valga 

 in being not solidly colored, showing two broad, but normally very 

 weak, darker suffusions dorsad. 



Phaedrotettix valga (Scudder). 



1897. Cyclocercus accola Scudder, (in part), Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, 



p. 38. [ 9 , Lerdo, Durango, ^Mexico.] 

 1897. Cyclocercus valga Scudder, ibid., p. 39, PI. Ill, fig. 6. [cf, Sierra 



Nola, Tamaulipas, Mexico.] 

 Victoria, Tamaulipas, I, 14 and 1.5, 1903, (S. N. Rhoads), 2(^, 2 9," [A. N. 



S. P.]; XII, 10, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 2c?, [U. S. N. M.]. 



A large series of well preserved material of P. accola from near the 

 type locality, now at hand, enables us to straighten out the past 

 confusion. All of the material, described by Scudder from Corpus 

 Christi Bay, Texas, as Phcedrotettix angustipennis and Cyclocercus 

 accola, is dried alcoholic and in very poor condition. 



Rehn's misidentification was due to Caudell's mistakes in com- 

 parison. Scuclder's figures for the two species are excellent. 

 Phaedrotettix litus new species. 



This species is cUstinctive in its striking green coloration washed 

 with red. The eyes are appreciably more protuberant than in any 



Fig. 1. — Phcedrotettix litus new species. Lateral view of male. Type. (X 3.) 



^^ Incorrectly recorded by Rehn as Phcedrotettix angustipennis, in 1904; following 

 Caudell, who compared the material with cotypes of that species. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259- 



other species of the genus, while the male cerci are distinctive in 

 form. The male supra-anal and subgenital plates are much as in 

 P. histrigata. The tegmina are more elongate but nearly as broad 

 as in P. palmeri and P. dumicola. 



Type: cf ; Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico. (0. W. Barrett.) 

 [Hebard Collection Type No. 436.] 



Size and form medium for the group, much as in histrigata. Surface 

 generally smooth, supplied with microscopic hairs, these particularly 

 numerous on the caudal tibise. Head with interocular space very 

 narrow, hardly more than half as wide as proximal antennal joint, 

 narrow" sulcus of vertex distinct, vertex not decidedly produced, 

 declivent; fastigio-facial angle rounded, rectangulate; face distinctly 

 and evenly retreating; frontal costa broadly sulcate, a little the 

 widest between antennal sockets, lateral margins more acute there, 

 below becoming less distinct and parallel; supplementary facial 

 carinse distinct, diverging slightly ventrad. Eyes protuberant, 

 their dorsal surfaces slightly above the plane of the occiput, eyes 

 distinctly longer than gense. Antennae filiform, slightly over twice 

 as long as pronotum. 



Pronotum without lateral carinse; dorsum scarcely expanchng 

 caudad, mecUo-longitudinal carina subobsolete, transverse sulci weak, 

 the two on the prozona weaker and broken mesad, surface micro- 

 scopically roughened on prozona, minutely punctulate on metazona, 

 caudal margin broadly and feebly concave; lateral lobes of pronotum 

 with cephalic margin feebly concave dorsad, feebly convex ventrad, 

 ventral angles rounded obtuse-angulate, the ventro-caudal angles 

 of greater degree, caudal margin moderately oblique, faintly concave.. 

 Tegmina lateral, elongate ovate, nearly two and one-half times as 

 long as broad; apex bluntly rounded, the convexit}^ strongest ventro- 

 caudad; veins distinct, mainly longitudinal. Prosternal process well 

 developed, acute conical, not deflected caudad. Mesosternal space 

 distinctly longer than wide. Metasternal lobes narrowly separated. 



Furcula subobsolete, represented 

 by minute, bluntly obtuse-angulate 

 projections of the segment. Supra- 

 anal plate very broadly shield- 

 shaped, simple. Cerci rather broad, 

 narrowing gradually in proximal 

 half, then subequal in width to 



base of distal portion; dorsal margin ^^S- 2.—Ph(Bdrotettix lit us new 

 , , ,, species. Lateral outline of cercus. 



evenly and weakly concave to acute Type. (Greatly enlarged.) 




260 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Fig. 3. — Phcedrotettix litus new 

 species. Outline of female 

 tegmen. Allotype. (X 3.) 



apex, ventral margin nearly straight, weakly undulating to sharply 

 rounded, weakly obtuse-angulate disto-ventral angle, distal margin 

 from this point feebly concave, oblique to the acute and pro- 

 duced disto-dorsal apex. Subgenital plate small, simple, scoop- 

 shaped, the curvature of the surface sharp dorso-distad but with no 

 indication of a tubercle. Limbs moderately stout. Caudal tibiae 

 hairy, with numerous (9 and 10) external and (10 and 10) internal 

 spines. 



Allotype; 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Size much larger than male, form distinctly more robust. Eyes 

 less protuberant ; vertex more blunt ; interocular space wider, equalling 



length of proximal antennal joint; frontal 

 costa not sulcate but with minute pits 

 above the antennal sockets, weakly and 

 broadly sulcate below. Antennae about 

 twice as long as pronotum. Median 

 carina of dorsum of pronotum stronger, 

 weak but distinct on metazona, caudal 

 margin with broad concavity more dis- 

 tinct. Ovipositor valves moderately elongate; dorsal valves with 

 dorso-external margins rather strongly toothed for the group and 

 apical tooth almost straight, scarcely curved dorsad. 



Measurements {in millimeters.) 



Length Length Caudal Length Width Length 



of of width of of of of 



body, pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. tegmen. caudal femur. 



cf. Type 17. 3.9 2.9 3.6 L6 11.1 



9. Allotype 25.8 5.8 5.6 4.9 2.2 15.7 



Coloration. Male. Dorsal surface of head, pronotum and abdo- 

 men, including tegmina, deep olive brown, shading to buffy olive 

 laterad on abdomen. Face, cephalic and median limbs, ventral 

 surface of sternum and lateral and ventral surfaces of abdomen buffy 

 olive, becoming yellowish on sternum and proximo-ventral portion 

 of abdomen. Antennae buffy olive, shading to deep olive brown in 

 distal half. Eyes prout's brown. Genae buffy olive with a broad 

 but weak brownish postocular band, weakly margined dorsad with 

 buffy. Lateral lobes of pronotum in dorsal half claret brown, the 

 band broadest caudad, its ventral margin concave; ventral half 

 buffy, washed with claret brown. Caudal femora ecru olive washed 

 with dragons blood red, this decided on the dorsal and ventral 

 surfaces and proximad on the internal surfaces. Caudal tibiae 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



lettuce green proximad, becoming oil green; spines black tipped; 

 hairs white. 



The female is almost identically colored, the dorsal surface only 

 showing a stronger green suffusion, yellowish oil green on the 

 metazona. 



The species is known from a single pair. 



Sinaloa behrensii Scudder. 



1897. Sinaloa behrensii Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 31, PI. Ill, 

 fig. 7. [d', 9 ; Sinaloa, Mexico.] 



The type and allotype, belonging to the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology, are before us. The genus shows a general resemblance to 

 Phcedrotettix. The species resembles P. gracilis in general color 

 pattern and P. accola in pronotal form and contour, but has the 

 tegmina of the broader type found in P. litus, -palmeri and dumicola. 

 The elongate, slender, parallel male furcula, with a node on the 

 dorsal surface of the subgenital plate on each side of these appendages 

 are distinctive features in the present genus. 



The specimens at hand are dried alcoholic but show the following 

 features of coloration. Dorsal surface of head and pronotum rather 

 pale, postocular dark stripe broad, less, distinct but percurrent on 

 the lateral lobes of the pronotum and continued on the tegmina, 

 suffusing their ventral portions and with proximo-lateral dark areas 

 on male abdomen which decrease in size caudad. Limbs pale, the 

 genicular areas of the caudal femora suffused, dark brown. 



Sinaloa nitida (Scudder). 



1897. Melanoplus nitidus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 207, 

 PI. XIV, fig. 2. (In part.) [d^, Tepic, Mexico.] 



The type and an additional topotypic male, when compared with 

 the male type of Sinaloa behrensii now before us, show the unmis- 

 takable consanguinity of these very distinct and little known species. 

 The extraordinary male genitalia are very similar in the two species, 

 the only noteworthy difference being in the greater distal width of 

 the cerci in the genotype, behrensii. 



When compared, we find the male of nitida to be more robust in 

 structure, with pronotum shorter, prozona more convex, with trans- 

 verse sulci as decided but not cutting the weak median carina, which 

 is weakly convex in longitudinal outline and prozona laterad weakly 

 but distinctly and more evenljt concave in outline. In the present 

 insect the large shining black spot of the dorsal portion of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum, margined by a narrow buffy convex line above 

 and below, immaculate sides of the metazona and unicolorous tegmina 

 are distinctive features of coloration. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July,. 



It is further evident that Scudder's Barytettix peninsulce,^"^ known 

 from the unique female before us, is nearer Sinaloa than any other 

 described genus and should be placed in this genus until the male 

 sex is found to determine whether separation is necessary. 



The female type of peninsula is more robust, with pronotum 



proportionately much shorter, than the female allotype of hehrensii. 



It differs further in the broader and non-sulcate facial costa, decided 



transverse sulci of the dorsum of the pronotum which cut the weak 



median carina,^^ strikingly bicolored tegmina and marking of the 



lateral lobes of the pronotum, which is of the same general type as 



found in nitida but l^y no means as solidly, sharply and strikingly 



defined as in that species. 



i 

 PHAULOTETTIX Scudder. 



1897. Phaulotettix Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 29. 



1907. Calotettix Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 309. 



Scudder's description is based on an immature specimen, a& 

 demonstrated by the individual now before us. Without examina- 

 tion of this type Bruner had every reason to believe that his material 

 represented an undescribed genus. 



The genotype, by monotypy, is Phaulotettix compressus Scudder. 

 Phaulotettix compressus Scudder. 



1897. Phaulotettix compressus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 30, 

 PL II, fig. 11. [ [juv.] cf ; Monclova [nee Montelovez), Coahuila, Alexico.J 



1904. Sinaloa brevispinis Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1904, p. 535. 

 [cf, 9 ; Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico.] 



1905. Calotettix bicoloripes Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 309. 

 [&, Victoria, TamauUpa"s, Mexico.] 



1908. Calotettix flavopictus Bruner, ibid., p. 310. [9, Alonclova (nee 

 Montelovez), Coahuila, Mexico.] 



1908. Calotettix brevispinis Bruner, ibid., p. 311. (Generic assignment.) 

 1908. Calotettix obscurus Bruner, ibid., p. 311. [d", Tampico, [TamauUpas], 

 Mexico.] 



Scudder's type is an immature individual in one of the later 

 instars. We are able to associate it with adults, beyond doubt as 

 to species, from a large series of both adults and young now at hand 

 from the eastern portion of the arid southwestern United States. 



All of the material noted in the above synonymy is now before us. 

 Rehn's synonym is due to Scudder's description of compressus of a 



1^ 1897. Barytettix peninsulce Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 28. 

 [ 9 , Lower California.] 



15 The weak transverse sulci of the prono'tal disk cut the weak median carina 

 in the male type of behreyisii, but do not do so in the female allotype of that species, 

 the association of these specimens as sexes of the same species being unquestion- 

 ably correct. This is probably due to individual variation and shows this feature 

 to be of no diagnostic value in that species. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



supposedly adult and, in consequence, very distinctive insect. 

 Bruner's synonymic genus and three synonymic specific names are 

 entirely attributable to Scudder's error and the remarkable color 

 variation found in the species. 



The males are either brilliant green, marked with buff, or brown 

 with a greenish_ suffusion, marked with buff; the females are either 

 solid and almost immaculate brown or green, marked with buff. 

 The caudal tibia and tarsi of the males are entirely jasper red to 

 scarlet red, or this color only in the distal third or two-fifths of the 

 tibige, the remaining proximal portion being light terre verte or 

 porcelain blue. The females have the caudal tibiae and tarsi usually 

 much less brilliantly colored, entirely reddish, or bluish, changing 

 gradually through purplish to reddish chstad. The dorso-lateral 

 pale lines of the pronotum are striking only in the green condition of 

 both sexes, these vary in width and are sometimes abruptly terminated 

 at the principal sulcus. None of these types of coloration have any 

 further significance than the adaptation of the individual to local 

 vcnvironmental conditions. 



Monclova, Coahuila, IX, 20, (E. Palmer), 3 9^^ topotypes, (2 brown; 

 1 green with broad pereurrent pronotal stripes, caudal tibise of all bluish 

 to extremities), [M. C. Z.]; XI, 23, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 1 9 , (green, with 

 broken pronotal stripes not extending beyond principal sulcus, caudal 

 tibiae briefly bluish proximad, remaining portions reddish), [U. S. N. M.]. 



Victoria, Tamaulipas, XII, 10, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 1 9 , (brown, caudal 

 tibiae bluish to extremities), [U. S. N. M.]. 



Tamos, Tamauhpas, XII, 7, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 19, (brown, caudal 

 tibiae reddish), [U. S. N. M.]. 



Pueblo Viejo, Vera Cruz, XII, 8, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic?, 19, (both 

 brown, caudal tibiae red), [U. S. N. M.]. 



.Agroecotettix modestus Bruner. 



1908. Agroecotettix modestus Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 312. 



[9, Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.] 

 Monclova, Coahuila, IX, 20, (E. Palmer), 1 9 , [M. C. Z.]. 



CONALC^A Scudder. 



1897. CondcoBa Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 23. 

 1897. Barytettix Scudder, ibid., p. 27. 



The series now before us, incluchng the single types of all the 

 •described species, prove beyond question the above synonymy, the 

 features given by Scudder to distinguish these genera being fanciful 

 or of no generic value. 



The genotype, Conalccea ■miguelitana Scudder, is closely related to 

 ■Conalccea huachucana Rehn, the latter may eventually prove to be a 



^^ In addition to juv. cf t3T3e of Phaulotettix compressus and 9 type of Calotettix 

 _flavopidus 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July,. 



geographic race. To these species C. truncatipennis Scudder is rather 

 closely related. To crassus Scudder, genotype of Barytettix, Conalccea 

 neomexicana Scudder is very closely related and may indeed prove to 

 be a geographic race of that species. Baryiettix psninsulce Scudder 

 is a very distinctive insect, best referred at present to the genus 

 Sinaloa. 



Conalcsea crassa (Scudder). 



1897. Barytettix crassus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 28, PL II, 

 fig. 10. [c?, San Jose del Cabo, Lower California, Mexico.] 



1897. Melanoplus nitidus Scudder, ibid., p. 207. (In part.) [ 9 , Cape 

 St. liucas. Lower California, Mexico.] 



Scudder admits the questionable association of the sexes for his 

 M. nitidus. The specimen from Cape St. Lucas is in every way 

 similar to one of the smaller females from San Jose del Cabo. A 

 number of topotypic specimens are before us. The entire series 

 of this species is dried alcoholic. 



Aidemona azteca (Saussure). 



1861. Platyphyma azteca Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de ZooL, (2), XIII, p. 161. 

 [cf , Temperate Mexico.] 



Mazatlan, Sinaloa, Icf, (elongate), [A. M. N. H.]. 



Tepic, Tepic, 3 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco, (D. L. Crawford), 3cf , (elongate), [A. N. S. P.]. 



Amecameca, Mexico, I, .5, 1899, VII, 11, 1898, 2d', 19, (Icf, 9 elongate),. 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Eslava, Distrito Federal, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Cuernavaca, Morelos, VI, (Barrett; Smith), Icf, 29, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Matamoros, Morelos, VIII, 11, 1903, (W. L. Tower), 1 9 , [Tower Cln.j. 

 Rio Cocula, Guerrero, XII, 1898, (O. W. Barrett), Id, 29, (elongate), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Tepetlapa, Guerrero, 3000 feet, X, (H. H. Smith), 2d, 19, (elongate), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Dos Arroyos, Guerrero, 1000 feet, IX, (H. H. Smith), Id, (elongate), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Mescala, Guerrero, (H. H. Smith), 19, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Amula, Guerrero, 6000 feet, VIII, (H. H. Smith), Id, 19, (elongate), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Venta de Peregrino, Guerrero, (H. H. Smith), 1 9 , (elongate), [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Chilpancingo, Guerrero, 4600 feet, VI, (H. H. Smith), Sd, -4 9, (elongate), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Omilteme, Guerrero, 8000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), Id', (short), [Hebard 



Cln.]. 

 Acapulco, Guerrero, IX, (H. H. Smith), \d, 19, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.]. 

 , Xucumanatlan, Guerrero, 7000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 5d, (3 elongate), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Presidio, Vera Cruz, (Forrer), 1 9, (elongate), [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Jalapa, Vera Cruz, VI, 1, 1894, So', 3 9 , 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Xico, Vera Cruz, Id, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Medellin, Vera Cruz, X, 1895, 4cr, 4 9 , 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Atoyac, Vera Cruz, V, XI and XII, (Smith; Bruner), 2cf , 2 9 , 2 juv., [Hebard 



Cln.]. 

 Cordoba, Vera Cruz, 1 9 ■ [Hebard Cln.]. 

 San Rafael, Vera Cruz, III and IV, (C. H. T. Townsend), 47 d^, 14 9 , [Hebard 



Cln.l. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Teapa, Tabasco, IIL (H. H. Smith), So', 49 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Frontera, Tabasco, I, (H. H. Smith), Id', [Hebard Cln.]. 



Merida, Yucatan, (Gavnner), 2d, 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Chichen Itza, Yucatan, (E. Thompson), 6d, Q9 , [Field Mus. Nat. Hist.]. 



Valladolid, Yucatan, (Gaumer), 5cf, 29, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Campylacantha similis Scuddcr. 



1S97. Cninpylacanlha similis Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 52, 



PL IV, fig. 5. [cT, 9; Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.] 

 Monclova, Coahuila, XI, 22, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Ic^, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Lerdo, Durango, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Id,'' [Hebard Cln.]. 



Ttie five known forms of this genus all show rather close affinity. 

 Nearest approach to the present insect is shown by C. lamprotata 

 Rehn and Hebard. Compared with that insect, similis is found to be 

 more robust, with coloration deeper and less brilliant. The males 

 of Campylacantha, like those of Hesperotettix, differ from the majority 

 of the species of the Melanopli in having the genitalia very much 

 alike in all of the species belonging to the genus. 



The male from Monclova has the tegmina reaching the apex of 

 the supra-anal plate; in the Lerdo males the tegmina are shorter, 

 about half as long as the abdomen. 



Hesperotettix meridionalis Scudder. 



1897. Hesperoiettix meridionalis Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 59, 

 PL lY, fig. 9. [d , 9 '• Guanajuato, Guanajuato, and Sierra Nola, Tamau- 

 lipas, Mexico.] 



Durango, Durango, (O. W. Barrett), Id , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco, VI and VII, 1903, (J. F. McClendon), 19, 

 [A. M. N. H.]. 



This insect is the optimum development of the forms of the Viridis 

 Group. The intensified coloration, particularly of the black 

 marldngs, combined with its heavier build, gives the species a dis- 

 tinctive facies when compared with its nearest ally, H. viridis. 



The male from Durango is less brilliantly colored and much smaller 

 than the type, now before us. 



The female specimen of H. pratensis labelled "Orizaba, Mexico" 

 in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner, recorded both by Scudder and 

 Bruner, is in our opinion probably incorrectly labelled. 



We can find no material of H. speciosus from northern Chihuahua 

 as recorded by Bruner and do not believe the species occurs in that 



region. 



Melanoplus scitulus Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus scitulus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 249, 



PI. XVI, fig. 10. [d, 9 ; Mount Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.] 

 Sierra de San Miguelito, San Luis Potosi, (E. Palmer), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



" In addition to the typical series in the Hebard Collection. 




•266 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



This specimen agrees fully in all diagnostic features with the type 

 and paratype before us. It is slightly smaller than the female 

 allotype and the coloration is less intense, the marginal fields of the 

 short almost circular tegmina being feebly darkened and only in 

 their proximal portion, the ventral surface of the caudal femora 

 showing very faintly an orange tinge and the caudal tibiae being a 

 much less intense glaucous. 



The broad prosternal spine, with cephalic face weakly concave and 

 distal margin broadly convex-truncate, is a striking feature in the 

 present insect. Though different in this respect and in male genitalic 

 features as well from M. reflexus, affinity to that species is clearly 

 indicated in the head, pronotum, form of tegmina and general type 

 of coloration. 



Melanoplus desultorius insignis new subspecies. 



This handsome insect is clearly the optimum development of the 

 species desultorius Rehn, showing sufficient differentiation to warrant 

 its recognition as a geographic race. From typical desultorius the 

 present insect differs in the larger size, richer greens of the body and 

 red of the antennae, more uniform coloration of the external faces of 

 the caudal femora and particularly in the more ample, conspicuously 



Fig. 4. — Melanoplus desultorius insignis new subspecies. 



Type. (X 3.) 



Lateral view of male. 



overlapping broad-ovate tegmina, which have their caudal margins 

 truncate and showing weak concavity at the apex of the humeral 

 trunk. 



Of the species of the Aridus Group, tristis Bruner shows the con- 

 dition developed under the most limiting environment, while desul- 

 torius represents a more favored development than aridus Scudder, 

 to which very close affinity is shoAvn. The male genitalia in all of 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



these species are of a closely similar type antl do not afford the 

 striking differential features usually found in the species of the genus 

 Melanoplus. 



Type: cf ; Copete Mine, thirty miles east of Carbo, Sonora, Mexico. 

 (F. C. Nicholas.) [American Museum of Natural History.] 



Size largest of the forms of the Aridus Group; form moderately 

 robust, distinctly heavier than in typical desultorius. Interocular 

 space slightly narrower than first antennal joint. Vertex and frontal 

 costa as in aridus and desultorius. Eyes distinctly longer than 

 infra-ocular portion of gense. Pronotum much as in desidtorius; 

 disk gently arched transversely and longitudinally, the lateral 

 margins rounded; median carina distinct on cephalic half of prozona 

 and on metazona, obsolete on caudal half of prozona; transverse 

 sulci well developed, the first failing by a very brief space to break 

 the median carina, the other two complete, cutting the mecUan line; 

 caudal margin of pronotum rotundato-obtuse-angulate. Prosternal 

 spine moderately elongate, rounding sharply distad to the acute 

 apex. Interspace between mesosternal lobes slightly more than 

 twice as long as least width; metasternal lobes contiguous. Tegmina 

 broad ovate, decidedly overlapping, with caudal margin truncate and 

 showing a broad but weak concavity toward the apex of the humeral 

 trunk. The small, slightly divergent furcula, triangular and but 

 little specialized supra-anal plate and elongate, very slender, mod- 

 erately incurved cerci are much as in desultorius. The subgenital 

 plate' is broader than in that species, much broader than in aridus, 

 with distal margin Ijroadly rounded. Other features are found to be 

 as described for desidtorius.^^ 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [American Museum of Natural 

 History.] 



Agrees with male except in the following 



features. Size much larger, form more 



robust. Interocular space slightly wider 



than first antennal joint. Pronotum with 



median carina percurrent, strongest on 



metazona, similarly cut by the transverse 



sulci. Interspace between mesosternal 



lobes with width contained in length Fig. 5.— Melanoplus desultorius 



about one and one-half times, that i^'T'^' ^;^. subspecies. 



' (Jutline 01 lemale tegmen. 



between metasternal lobes very narrow. Allotype. (X 3.) 



18 By Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Fhila., 1907, p. 51, (1907). 

 19 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Tegmina proportionately even broader than in male, with trun- 

 cation of distal margin more noticeable. Ovipositor moderately 

 stout, distal tooth of dorsal valves weakly curved. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Length Length Length Width Length Width 



, of of of of of caudal of caudal 



body, pronotum. tegmen. tegmen. femur. femur. 



cf. Type 22.7 5.7 4.6 ,3. 13.65 3.65 



9. Allotype 3L8 7. 6.2 4. 18.4 4.6 



Coloration. The color pattern is shown by the figure. General 

 coloration dark zinc green and antimony yellow. Head with vertex 

 antimony yellow with a medio-longitudinal band of liottle green, 

 eyes kaiser brown, antennae brilliant coral red, other portions of head 

 yellowish, heavily obscured with dull greenish and with a postocular 

 band of dark zinc green. Pronotum with pale markings antimony 

 yellow, darker markings dark zinc green, those of the dorsum with a 

 brownish suffusion and the darkest areas of the lateral lobes greenish 

 black. In the female the dorsal band is solidly of this color. Tegmina 

 olive brown, in the female shading proximad to clove brown. Abdo- 

 men and underparts yellowish. Cephalic and median limbs yellowish 

 washed with green. Caudal femora with dorsal surface bright 

 antimony yellow, with two broad bands of dark zinc green; internal 

 surface antimony yellow; external surface dark zinc green shading 

 into antimony yellow ventrad, leaving the ventral portion rather 

 broadly this color, broadest proximad; genicular areas black with 

 lobes antimony yellow washed with green. Caudal tibise gobelin 

 blue; spines black except at their immediate bases. 



The pair is unique. 



Melanoplus discolor (Soudder). 



1897. Pezotettix discolor Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XX, p. 81. 



[cf, 9 ; Dallas, Texas.] 

 1897. Melanoplus discolor Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 149, 



PL X, fig. 7. (Same series.) 

 1897. Melanoplus inornatus Scudder, ibid., p. 254, PL XVII, fig. 3. [d^, 9 ; 



unknown locality; Monclova (nee Montelovez), Coahuila, Mexico.] 



As the described male of M. inornatus had been destroyed, a 

 female in the Museum of Comparative Zoology from Monclova has 

 been selected as type. The above synonymy is evident when 

 comparison of this specimen is made with cotypes of discolor and a 

 considerable series of that species now at hand. 



The species shows very unusual variation in females having the 

 mesosternal space varying individually from subquadrate to dis- 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



tinctly longer than broad. Variation in the male cerci is also founds 

 but no approach is shown in the series before us to Scudder's figure 

 for inornatus, showing a mesially constricted condition. The male 

 without data, described as inornatus, may have represented a different 

 species from the female. As the single type has been selected, a 

 female, this would have no effect on the synonymy indicated above. 



elanoplus thomasi Scudder. 



1897. Mclaiioplus thomasi Scudder, Pioc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 368, 



PI. XXV, fig. 1. [cf, Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.] 

 Durango, Durango, (O. W. Barrett), IcT, [Hebard Cln.]; XI, 27, 1909, 



(F. C. Bishopp), 2c^, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Escuinapa, Sinaloa, (J. H. Batty), 1 9 , [A. M. X. H.]. 



The pale lateral pronotal lines are wider in the Escuinapa example 

 than in the others of this large and handsome insect. 



Melanoplus diiFerentialis (Thomas). 



1871. Caloplenus differentialis Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871, 



p. 149. [cf , 9 ; Jackson County, Illinois.] 

 Guanajuato, Guanajuato, (A. Duges), Icf , [U. S. N. M.]; XII, 11, 1898, 1 9 , 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Vera Cruz, Vera Cruz, (T. Heyde), 2c?, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Medellin, Vera Cruz, IX, 1895, 2d^, 59 , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 San Rafael, Vera Cruz, (C. H. T. Townsend), 2d^, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Melanoplus corpulentus Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus corpulentus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 313, 

 PI. XX, fig. 10. [d", 9 : Tlalpam, Distrito Federal; San Luis Potosi and 

 Sierra de San Miguelito, San Luis Potosi; Zacatecas, Zacatecas, and Sonora, 

 Mexico: Silver City, New Mexico.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Eslava, Distrito Federal, IX, 1898, (O. W. Barrett), Ic?, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Tacubaya, Distrito Federal, IX, 19 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



Cuernavaca, Morelos, I, 4, 1899 and II, 1898, (O. W. Barrett), Ic?, 19 

 [Hebard Cln.]. 



Melanoplus regalis (Dodge). 



1876. Caloplenus regalis Dodge, Can. Ent., VIII, p. 11. [Glencoe, 



Nebraska.] 

 1902. /Eolopliis crassus Scudder and Cockerell, Proc. Davenport Acad. 



Nat. Sci., IX, p. 42. (In part.) [ 9 , San Luis Potosi, Mexico.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), Id", [A. N. S. P.]. 

 San Luis Potosi, X, (from E. Palmer; G. Banoeta), 19 , cotype of /Eoloplus 



crassus Scudder and Cockerell, [M. C. Z.]. 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco, IX, 18, 1903, (J. F. McClendon), Id, [A. N. S. P.]. 



The present insect has not been previously recorded from Mexico 

 as regalis. Marked variation is shown by the material at hand. The 

 male from Guadalajara is very small and brilliantly colored, with 

 bright greens and yellows on head, pronotum and dorsal surfaces of 

 ca^xdal femora and brilliant nopal red on the ventral and internal 

 faces of the caudal femora, while the caudal tibise are deep glaucous. 

 The other specimens are larger, much less l^rilliantly colored and show 

 only traces of greenish on head and pronotum. 




'270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



This insect is extremely close to M. ■picturatus Bruner, the latter 

 apparently differing only in the more robust form, decidedly larger 

 average size and constant brilliant coloration, in which the prozona 

 is normally conspicuously washed with pink, as are frequently the 

 outer surfaces of the caudal femora. 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum femur-rubrum DeGeer. 



1773. Acrydium femur-rubrum DeGeer, Mem. I'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 498, 

 PI. XLII, fig. 5.^ [ [ 9 ], Pennsylvania.] 



Piedras Negras, Coahuila, 19 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Cuidad, Durango, 8100 feet, (Forrer), 29 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 19 , [Hebard Cln.j. 



Guanajuato, Guanajuato, (A. Duges), lo^, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco, VIII, 3, (J. F. McClendon), 1 9 ; (D. L. Crawford), 



1 9 , [both A. N. S. P.]. 

 Omilteme, Guerrero, 8000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Merida, Yucatan, (Gaumer), 3 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Chichen Itza, Yucatan, (E. Thompson), Ic?, [Field Mus. Nat. Hist.]. 



It is of interest to note that though the species over the greater 

 portion of its distribution has the caudal tibise red, all of the present 

 series, excepting those from Ciudad, Guanajuato and Omilteme, have 

 the caudal tibise glaucous. Decided size and color, but no structural, 

 variation is shown by this material. 



Melanoplus lakinus (Scudder). 



1879. PezoteUix lakinus Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XX, p. 79. 

 [cf, 9 ; Lakin and Pueblo, Colorado.] 



1897. Melanoplus viarculentus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 139, 

 PI. X, fig. 1. [cf , 9 ; Monclova (nee Montelovez), Coahuila; Sierra 

 Nola, Tamaulipas; Sierra de San Miguelito, San Luis Potosi and Bledos, 

 San Luis Potosi; Zacatecas, and Aguas Calientes — all Mexico.] 



1897. Melanoplus lakinus Scudder, ibid., p. 141, PL X, fig. 2. [Nebraska, 

 Colorado, Kansas and New Mexico records.] 



1897. Melanoplus sonorce Scudder, ibid., p. 143, PI. X, fig. 3. [cf, 9, 

 Sonora, Mexico.] 



The synonymy of marculentus is clearly proven by comparison of 

 the different large series before us with the single type of lakinus^^ 

 and of marculentus}'^ An optimum condition, very robust in struc- 

 ture, is the basis for this name; the mesosternal differences noted by 

 Scudder are wholly due to slight individual variation. 



The typical series of sonorce is lost; the material clearly representing 

 dried alcoholic specimens of lakinus, in which the caudal tibise have 

 lost their glaucous coloration, becoming yellowish brown.-^ Material 

 similarly badly preserved is before us. 



"Here selected: c? ; Lakin, Kansas, September, 1; S. H. Scudder; Museum 

 of Comparative Zoology. 



20 Selected by Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 78, 

 (1912). 



21 See Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 51, (1907). Scudder, in his 

 Revision, has frequently erred in studying such material, the effect of alcohol 

 upon tissue and coloration being apparently ignored. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Copete Mines, 30 miles east of Carbo, Sonora, (F. C. Nicholas), Id^, [A. M. 

 N. H.]. 



Escuinapa, Sinaloa, (J. H. Batty), 1 9, [A. AI. X. H.]. 



San Jose del Cabo, Lowei- California, 5 9 , [California Acad. Sci.]. 



Casas Grande, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), 1 9 , [A. X. S. P.]. 



Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, (C. H. T. Townsend), Ic?, 1 9," (bothmacrop- 

 terous), [Hebard Cln.]. 



Monclova, Coahuila, (E. Palmer), 3 9, (1 macropterous), [M. C. Z.]. 



Torreon, Coahuila, X, 30, 1909, (J. Friesser), Id^, 19, (9 macropterous), 

 [Field AIus. Xat. Hist.]. 



TlahuaHlo, Durango, XII, 6, 1905, (A. W. Morrill), 19, [U. S. X. M.]. 



Lerdo, Durango, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 2 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Durango, Durango, XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), 56", 8 9, [U. S. X. M.]. 



Camacho, Zacatecas, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



Zacatecas, Zacatecas, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 5cf, 8 9, including paratypes 

 of M. marculentus,-^' [Hebard Cln. and A. N. S. P.]. 



Aguascahentes, Aguascalientes, XII, 1, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Id', 6 9, 

 (19 macropterous), [U. S. X. M.]; XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), id, 2 9, 

 [Hebard Cln. and A. N. S. P.]; XII, 9, 1898, 4cr, 5 9, {2d, 1 9 macrop- 

 terous), [Hebard Cln. and A. X. S. P.]. 



Guanajuato, Guanaiuato, XII, 11, 1898, 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Ocotlan, Jahsco, 5000 feet, VIII, 29 to IX, 1, 1906, (P. P. Calvert), Vd, 

 [A. X. S. P.l. 



Specimens from Monclova, Coahuila, and a series including the 

 type from Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas, show by far the optimum develop- 

 ment, being exceptionally large and robust. Decided size variation, 

 irrespective of geographic distribution, is found to occur, this par- 

 ticularly illustrated by the series from Aguascalientes. Very great 

 color variation is usual ; rare specimens are heavily washed with pink. 



Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus (Saussure). 



1861. Pezotettix mexicana Saussui'e, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XIII, p. 160. 



{d , 9 ; Temperate Mexico.] 

 (Melanoplus atlanis of authors.) 



Careful study of the literature and the extensive series at hand 

 gives conclusive evidence that the widespread and abundant species, 

 known universally as M. atlanis, must be called mexicanus, atlanis 

 having been described in 1875. The name atlanis accordingly is 

 alone retained for the race of mexicanus widely distributed throughout 

 the eastern United States and vicinity. The species clearly divides 

 into several geographic races, which will be fully discussed in a 

 forthcoming study of the Xorth American MelanopH found North of 

 Mexico. 



Durango, Durango, XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. Bishopp), Id', 19, [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Id', 19,-^ [Hebard 

 Cln.]. 



22 Incorrectly recorded by Bruner as M. cimeatus, in 1908. 

 ^^ In part incorrectly recorded by Scudder as M. flabellifcr in 1897 and by 

 Bruner as flabellifer in 1908. 

 2^ Recorded by Scudder as M. atlanis in 1897. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Guadalaiara, Jalisco, (D. L. Crawford), 2cf , 2 9; VIII, 18 to IX, 14, 1903, 



(J. F. McClendon), 6c?, 2 9 .^^ [all A. N. S. P.]. 

 Queretaro, Queretaro, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Icf , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Mexico City, Distrito Federal. I, 6, 1892 and XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 2cf, 



5 9 ,-' [Hebard Cln. and A. N. S. P.]. 

 Tacubava, Distrito Federal, VIII and IX, (O. W. Barrett), 2c? ,2' 3 9, 



[Hebird Cln. and A. N. S. P.]. 

 Tlalpam, Distrito Federal, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), Icf, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Cuernavaca, Morelos, VI, (O. W. Barrett), 1 9 ,2' [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Atovac, Vera Cruz, XII, (L. Bruner, Icf, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Patzcuaro, Michoacan, IV, 7, 1899, (S. X. Rhoads), Id","" [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Amula, Guerrero, 6000 feet, VIII, (H. H. Smith), 4c?, 5 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Xucumanatlan, Guerrero, 7000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 2c?, 2 9, [Hebard 



Cln.[. 

 Omilteme, Guerrero, 8000 feet, VII, (H. H. Smith), 5c?, 3 9, [Hebard Chi.]. 



In the present series, as given by Saussure for his typical material, 

 individuals show both red and glaucous caudal tibiae, the glaucous 

 type being much more frequently encountered in Mexico than in 

 the United States. In the present series the following have glaucous 

 caudal tibise: Icf, 19, Durango; Icf, 19, Aguascalientes; dcf, 29, 

 Guadalajara; 4cf , 3 9, Amula; 2cf ,^° 29, Xucumanatlan, and 3cf, 

 Omilteme. The ventral surfaces of the caudal femora are in all 

 very red, as described by Saussure. 



Melanoplus palmeri Soudder. 



1897. Melanoplus palmeri Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 230, 

 PI. XV, fig. 7. [c?, 9 ; Fort Wingate, New Mexico, and Fort Whipple, 

 Arizona.] 



San Lorenzo, Chihuahua, (E. Palmer), 1 9 ,^^ (dried alcoholic), [U. §• N. M.]. 

 Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, IX, 1902, (W. E. Hughes), 2c?, 19, 2 juv., 



(dried alcoholic), [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, (C. H. T, Townsend), 19 , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Durango, Durango, (E. Palmer), Ic?, [M. C. Z.]; XI, 27, 1909, (F. C. 



Bishopp), Ic?, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Escuinapa, Sinaloa, (J. H. Batty), Ic?, [A. M. N. H.]. 

 Zacatecas, Zacatecas, XI, 1887, (L. Bruner), 1 9 ,^- [Hebard Cln.]. 



Melanoplus elongatus Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus elongatus Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 160, 

 PI. XI, fig. 5. [c?, 9 ; 'Finney County, Kansas; Las Cruces, New Mexico; 

 Lerdo, Durango, Mexico; Guanajuato, Mexico and Bledos, San Luis 

 Potosi, Mexico.] 



Sonora, Ic?, [A. M. N. H.]. 



ISIonclova, Coahuila, XI, 22, 1909, <F. C. Bishopp), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Tampico, Tamaulipas, XII, 1906, (C. A. Hart), Ic?,'' [Hebard Cln.]. 



The males have the ventral surfaces of the caudal femora engiish 

 red or mars orange. 



2* 5c?, 2 9 recorded incorrect^ bj^ Rehn as M. spretis in 1904. 



2^ In part recorded by Scudder as M. ailanis in 1897. 



2' Ic? incorrectly recorded by Rehn as M. spretis in 1900. 



2' Incorrectly recorded by Rehn as M. arizonce in 1901. 



-' Recorded by Rehn as M. atlanis in 1902. 



'° Two have the caudal tibiae very pale. , 



'1 Incorrectly recorded by Scudder as M. spretus in 1897. 



'- Incorrectly recorded by Scudder as M. flaheUifer in 1897. 



'' Incorrectly recorded bv Bruner as M. flavidus in 1908. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Melanoplus complanatipes Scuddcr. 



1897. Melonoplu.^ complanatipes Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, 

 p. 298, PI. XIX, fig. 10. [Cape St. Lucas, Lower California; Sonora, 

 Mexico.] 



San Jose del Cabo, Lower California, 13c?', 14 9, 2 juv., (dried AlcohoUc), 

 [Hebard Cln. and California Acad. Sci.]. 



Melanoplus pictus brownii Caudell. 



1902. Melanoplus brownii Caudell, Can. Ent., XXXIV, p. 169. [d^, 9, 

 Yuma, Ai'izona.] 



Study of the single types of M. pictus Scudder and M. brownii 

 Caudell and large series of the latter condition before us, offers 

 satisfactory evidence that brownii must be considered a geographic 

 race of pictus. Full comparisons will be made in a study of North 

 American Melanopli found North of Mexico. 



Hermosillo, Sonora, IV, 1897, (A. Koebele), Id", [Hebard Cln.]. 



Melanoplus cinereus cyanipes Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus cyanipes Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 295, 

 PI. XIX, fig. S. [d', 9 ; Los Angeles, Pasadena and San Diego, Cali- 

 fornia.] 



Careful consideration of the types of cinereus Scudder and the 

 single type of cyanipes Scudder and large series of these and other 

 closeh' related conditions, shows conclusively that cyanipes represents 

 a geographic race of cinereus, which species develops still other 

 geographic races over its wide distribution in the western United 

 States. These will be treated in full in a forthcoming paper on the 

 Melanopli of North America found North of Mexico. 



San Quentin, Lower California, V, 1889, (C. D. Haines), Icf, 

 [Hebard Cln.]. 



Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas). 



1872. P[ezotettix] nebrascensis Thomas, Prelim. Rept. U. S. Geol. Surv. 

 ^Montana and Terr., V, p. 455. [ 9 , Nebraska.] 



Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, (C. H. T. Townsend), 2c?', (macropterous), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Durango, Dm-ango, (E. Palmer), Icf, [M. C. Z.]. 



Guanajuato, Guanajuato, (A. Duges), Id^, (macropterous), [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Cordoba, Vera Cruz, IX, 28, Ic^, 1 9 , [Cornell Univ. Cln.]. 



We find that four Mexican genera, Philocleon, Perixerus, Poeci- 

 lotettix and Dactylotum,^'^ show a distinct divergence from the true 

 Melanopli, but insufficiency of material prevents us from determining 

 whether these should be referred to a separate group, the Dactyloti. 

 The forms all have a broad, blunt vertex, showing some depression, 

 this often transverse, between the eyes; the prozona inflated, rounding 



3* There is little doubt but that Poepedetes Saussure is a synonym of Dactylotum 

 Charpentier. 




274 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



broadly laterad and in the majority of species with transverse sulci 

 deep, while the number of outer spines of the caudal tibiae, though 

 individually variable, average in some of the species less than eight. 

 All of the forms are variously brilliantly colored, but have a distinct 

 general appearance of consanguinity.^^ Until much additional 

 material is secured we feel that notes on the Mexican material of 

 these genera would not be sufficiently complete to warrant pu])lication. 



The species of Melanopli which have been correctly recorded from 

 Mexico. 



(Material of the names marked with an asterisk is in the Philadel- 

 phia collections, two asterisks indicating that the type is in these 

 collections and a dagger that the type has been at hand for examina- 

 tion during the preparation of the present paper.) 



1. Netrosoma fusiforme* 



2. Netrosoma nigropleura** 



3. Dichroplus notatus Bruner* 

 Pedies virescens Saussure 

 Pedies mexicanus (Briumer) * 

 Pedies variabilis (Scudder) ** 

 Cephalotettix jjHosus (Stal)* 

 Phcedrotettix gracilis 



(Bruner)** 

 PhcedroteUixhislrigata 



(Scudder) t 

 Phcedrotettix angustipennis 



Scudder*t 

 Phcedrotettix valga 



(Scudder) *t 

 Phcedrotettix litus Hebard** 

 Phcedrotettix palmeri 



(Scudder) *t 

 Sinaloa bchrensii Scudderf 

 Sinaloa nitida (Scudder)** 

 Sinaloa peninsulce 



(Scudder)** 

 Phaulotettix compressus 



Scudder *t 



18. Agroecotettix modestus 



Bruner** 



19. Dasyscirtus olivaceous 



Bruner** 



4. 

 5. 

 6. 



7. 

 8. 



9. 



10. 



11. 



12. 

 13. 



14. 

 15. 



16. 



17. 



20. Conalccea miguelitana 



Scudder* 



2 1 . Conalccea t runcatipen n is 



Scudderf 



22. Conalccea crassa (Scudder)** 



23. Aidemona azteca (Saussure) * 



24. Par aidemona mimica 



Scudder* 



25. Campylacantha similis 



Scudder** 



26. Hesperotettix meridioncdis 



Scudder *t 



27. Melanoplus scitulus 



Scudder *t 



28. Melanoplus meridioncdis^^ 



Scudder*! 



29. Melanoplus cancri Scudder** 



30. AIela7ioplus desidtorius insig- 



nis Hebard* 



31. Melanoplus discolor 



(Scudder) *t 



32. Melanoplus glaucipes 



(Scudder)* 



33. Melanoplus bivittatus (Say) * 



34. Melanoplus tho7nasi 



Scudder** 



35. Melanoplus differenticdis 



(Thomas) * 



'^ The genus Philocleon stands off by itself and shows this feature least. 

 ^^ We have been unable to examine the type of M. reflexus Scudder, of which 

 meridionalis may possibly be a synonym. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



liO 



36. Melanoplus sumichrasti 



(Saussure) * 



37. Melonoplus corpulentus 



Scudder* 

 ,38. Melanoplus regalis (Dodge)* 



39. Melanoplus picturatus 



Brunei'** 



40. Melanojilusfemur-ruhrum 



femur-rubrum (de Geer)* 



41. Melanoplus lakinus 



(Scudder) *t 



42. Melanoplus mexicanus mexi- 



canus (Saussure)* 



43. Melanoplus palmeri 

 Scudder* 



44. Melanoplus elongatus 

 Scudder* 



45. Melanoplus complanatipes 

 Scudder* 



46. Melanoplus pictus hrownii 

 Caudell* 



47. Melanoplus cinereus cyanipes 

 Scudder* 



48. Phcetaliotes nehrascensis 

 (Thomas) * 



49. (Edaleonotus jucundus 



(Scudder)* 



We are unable to locate Melanoplus seledus Walker, described from 

 Mexico. 



Bruner has incorrectly quoted Pezotettix varicolor Stal, since referred 

 to Paradichroplus then to Chlorus, as having been recorded from 

 Mexico. 



Kirby has incorrectly quoted Conalccea neomexicana as having been 

 recorded from Mexico. 



Uhler's record of Hesperotettix viridis from Mexico is probably 

 referable to H. meridionalis. 



The other incorrect determinations and the sj^nonyms for the 

 Mexican Melanopli have already been discussed in the present paper. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



CONCEKNING RAFINESQUE'S PRECIS DES DECOUVERTES SOMIOLOGIQUES. 



BY DAVID STARR JORDAN. 



In Palermo, in 1814, Constantine Samuel Rafinesque published a 

 mean little pamphlet which he called "Precis des Decouvertes 

 Somiologiques, ou Zoologiques et Botaniques." By his newly 

 invented word "Semiology" Rafinesque meant Systematic Zoology 

 and Botany. In another paper of the same date he gives the " Princi- 

 paux Fondamentaux de Somiologie, ou les Lois de la Nomenclature 

 et de la Classification de I'Empire Organique ou des Animaux et des 

 Vegetaux." 



These laws of nomenclature are mostly reasonable enough, except 

 that they justify the substitution of new names on trivial grounds. 

 A name may be too long or too short, and all names indicating 

 likeness to other genera, as Gohioides, Scomber omorus, Scomheresox, 

 were discarded. These rules he applies at once to numerous plant 

 genera and in his "Analyse de la Nature," in 1815, to many others 

 also. 



The "Precis de Decouvertes" has been rarely seen by naturalists. 

 The only copy I have examined is in the library of the Department 

 of Agriculture. In it the following species are described, from Sicily, 

 unless otherwise noted: 



Phycis inacronemus, p- 10. 



This is apparently Phycis blenniodes Briinnich. 



Trisopterus fasciatus (new genus), p. 16. 



"Corps comprime: tete ecailleuse: trois nageoires dorsales et 

 anales opposees, les intermediaires les plus grandes. II appartient 

 a la famille des Gadiens. T. fasciatus: Jaune dore raye transversa- 

 lement de brun: ligne laterale droite et brune: queue fourchee." 



According to Risso this is the same as his Morua capelanus or 

 Brachygadus minutus (L). This identification is probably correct, 

 in which case Trisopterus replaces Brachygadus Gill. 



Bothus diagrammus, p- 16. 



Left side rosy, unspotted. Two lateral lines, the upper straight, 

 the lower curved. Dorsal beginning over opercles. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Bothus punctatus, p. 17. 



Upper side reddish, dotted with brown; lateral line arched in front; 

 dorsal lieginning over mouth. 



Bothus diaphanus, p. 17. 



Hyaline, a red spot on opercle; two at base of caudal; 12 along 

 body near dorsal and anal; dorsal beginning over mouth; lateral 

 line straight. 



These three species are plainly larval flounders, the first possibly 

 Flesus flesus (L) the others perhaps Bothus rhombus (L) . 



Monochirus hispidus, p. 17. New genus. 



This is a valid genus and species for which Rafinesque's name 

 must stand. 



Blennius lanceolatus, p. 17. 



Body lanceolate; tail sharp; silvery, dotted with brown; back 

 greenish; ventral rays 3; a barbel under the mouth. (Not identified, 

 possibly Ophidion barbatiim L.) 



Phycis agrammus, p. 17. 



Brown, with two rows of whitish spots; no lateral lines, no barbels; 

 two appendages on nostrils; ventral rays 5; front dorsal rays 20. 

 (Not identified.) 

 Lutianus flavus, p. is. 



Entierement jaune fonce, une tache noire sur I'opercule posterieur 

 et une autre a la base de la queue qui est entiere; ligne laterale 

 courbe posterieurement. This is Crenilabrus ocellatus (Forskal), 

 originally from Smyrna. 



Holocentrus ruber, p. 18. 



Rouge pale, une tache violette sur I'opercule posterieur, un rang 

 de taches olivatres sur le dos; iris violette; queue entiere, ligne 

 laterale courbe posterieurement. Unidentifiable. Possibly Para- 

 centropristis hepatus (L.), the name ruber preoccupied in Holocentrus. 



Perca nebulosa, p. 18. 



Variee de brun plus ou moins clair ou rougeatre, machoire inferieure 

 plus courte, aun barbillon tres-court endessous; nuque carenee, ligne 

 laterale presque droite, queue entiere, premiere nag. dorsale a 10 

 rayons. This is Umbrina cirrhosa (L). 



Gobius aterrimus, p. 18. 



Entierement d'un noir fonce uniforme sur tout le corps et les mem- 

 bres; joues enflees, ligne . laterale droite, queue arrondee, premiere 

 nag. dorsale a 5 rayons. This is probably Gobius niger L. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugllSt; 



Esox reticulatus, p. 18. 



Corps comprime, sans ligne laterale, reticule de noir bleuatre sur 

 im foncl argente, bouche grande noire, a dents crochues inegales; 

 nageoires blanchatres, les dorsale et anale a 16 rayons, queue fourchue. 



This seems to be the common European pike, Esox lucius L. 

 The name invalidates the later name of Esox reticulatus, given in 

 1818 by Le Sueur to the Grass Pike or Green Pickerel of Eastern 

 States of America. For this, the name Esox tredecemlineatus given 

 by Professor Mitchill in 1852, to his "Federation Pike" from Oneida 

 Lake, should apparently stand. Mitchill was impressed with the 

 patriotic agreement of this fish, having 13 dorsal rays, 13 anal rays 

 and 13 branchiostegals, with the thirteen American States. 



Esox phaleratus Say, 1818, from East Florida, was never described. 

 The few words quoted from Say by Le Sueur, apply better to the 

 little banded pickerel, Esox americanus Gmelin. "Body dusky 

 with a vertical fulvous vitta and three or four fulvous fasciae." 



Balistes fuscatus, p. 19. 



Brownish, with 3 large black spots. Dorsal spines 3, the first 

 very rough. Pectorals with 15 rays, the first very rough. Between 

 the Azores and the United States. This seems to be Balistes forci- 

 patus Gmelin. 

 Chironectes variegatus, p. 19. 



Compressed; gray olive above with large spots and streaks of 

 black and small white spots; two appendages above eyes. Between 

 the Azores and the United States. This is apparently Histrio 

 tumidus (Osbeck). Chironectes variegatus of Cuv. & Val. is a different 

 species. 



The three following are from streams flowing into Chesapeake Bay: 



Centropomus albus, p. 19. D. VIII, 16. A. 12. 



Tail half forked; upper jaw the longer. This seems to be Morone 

 americana Gmelin, but the number of dorsal rays should be IX-1, 12. 

 Centropomus luteus, p. 19. 



Yellow with brown bands; lower fins red; jaws almost equal; tail 

 almost entire; second dorsal unspotted. This is Perca fiavescens 

 (Mitchill) of the same date, 1814. 



Sparus mocasinus, p- 19. 



Bluish, rosy on the flanks; 2 spots on opercle, one black, one red; 

 tail lunulate. D. X. 14. A. Ill, 14. This is Eupomotis gibbosus 

 (L), but the number of fin-rays agrees with those of no sun-fish. 




1917.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



ON A FORGOTTEN GENUS OF SHARKS DESCRIBED BY NARDO. 

 DAVID STARR JORDAN. 



In a paper entitled " Observazione Ittiologiche" in the Annali 

 delle Scienze del Regno Lomhardo-Veneti, 1843, Professor Gian 

 Domenico Nardo, described a genus of sharks, to which I have seen 

 no subsequent allusion. He calls the genus Caninoa or Cojiinotus 

 in honor of Charles Lucien Bonaparte, prince of Canino. 



The type is Squalus barbarus Nardo or Caninoa ciereghini Nardo. 

 This shark is said to have but one dorsal fin, inserted behind the 

 ventrals, the gills 5 as in ordinary sharks; no spiracles; the teeth 

 equal, triangular, elongate, very sharp, dentate at the base. The 

 tail is not described. 



This agrees with no known shark. It is barely possible that it is 

 based on an individual of Carcharhinus commersoni which had its 

 first dorsal fin bitten off while very young. The Hexanchidse, sharks 

 with one dorsal fin, have spiracles, and teeth of a different type. A 

 deep water shark, Pentanchus Smith & Radcliffe, lately described 

 from the Philippines, has but one dorsal and five gill openings. 

 The small dorsal is, however, inserted over the very long anal and 

 the tricuspid teeth could hardlj" be described as merely dentate at 

 base. Pentanchus has minute spiracles. Caninoa is therefore based 

 on a mutilation or on some shark not seen since the original discovery. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



NEW AND LITTLE KNOWN GASTROPODA FROM THE UPPER CRETACEOUS 



OF TENNESSEE. 



BY BRUCE WADE. 



An announcement of the discovery of unusually well preserved 

 Upper Cretaceous fossils in the Ripley formation on Coon Creek in 

 McNairy County, Tennessee, was made in the Contributions to 

 Geology of the March, 1917, number of the Johns Hopkins University 

 Circular. A somewhat detailed description of the locality and a few 

 preliminary observations on the fauna were made in the same article. 

 The studies of this fauna have since been pursued further and more 

 than 350 species have been recognized. 



The Gastropoda of this fauna are especially interesting, since this 

 class is so prolific and so well preserved. A systematic study of these 

 gastropods has recently been submitted as a dissertation from the 

 Geological Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University. In this 

 study 151 species of Gastropoda from the Coon Creek locality have 

 been differentiated and described. As a result of the evidence 

 furnished by this large assemblage of perfect or nearly perfect univalve 

 shells, it has been found necessary, in order to classify all of these 

 forms, to propose several new generic groups. Descriptions of some 

 of the more interesting of these new genera and species have been 

 published recently^ and it is the purpose of the present paper to 

 present several additional forms of especial interest from this 

 locality.^ 



Family CONID^. 



Genus CONORBIS Swainson. 

 Conorbis mcnairyensis n. sp. PI. XVII, figs, l, 2. 



Description. — Shell very small and biconic in outline ; spire elevated, 

 its altitude equal to about half that of the entire shell ; whorls abruptly 



1 Published by permission of Dr. A. H. Purdue, State Geologist of Tennessee. 



2PROC. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., Julv, 1916, pp. 4.55-471, Pis. XXIII, XXIV. 

 Am. Jour. Sci. (IV), Vol. 43, pp. 293-297, figs. 1, 2, 1917. 



^ The writer wishes to express his indebtedness to Prof. W. B. Clark and his 

 associates in Paleontology, Prof. E. W. Berry and Dr. J. A. Gardner, under 

 whose guidance this study has been conducted. The writer is also indebted 

 to Drs. W. H. Dall, T. W. Stanton, L. W. Stephenson, C. W-. Cooke, and J. B. 

 Reeside, Jr., of the U. S. Geological Survey, and Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, for the privilege of studying their 

 collections, for the kindly interest they have shown in the work, and for their 

 assistance in helping to determine the biological relations of some of these forms. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



shouldered or strongly tabulated, the maximum diameter falling in 

 front of the median horizontal, volutions closely appressed and 

 increasing gradually in size, probably four in number in a perfect 

 individual; sculpture subdued and irregular; well-defined axial costse 

 not developed; spirals low and crowded, about six in number on the 

 penultima, and more than sixteen on the ultima, spirals crossed by 

 numerous irregular, sharply incised incremental lines which give the 

 surface of the shell a subcancellate aspect; suture impressed; body 

 shouldered posteriorly and sloping gently and evenly in front; 

 aperture narrow; margin of outer lip broken away; inner lip concave 

 medially; columella slightly flexed near the anterior extremity; 

 umbilicus indicated by a narrow depression along the outer margin 

 of the reflected inner lip. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 4.3 mm.; maximum diameter 2.5 mm. 



This form is represented by a single specimen. The species has 

 been referred to the genus Conorbis since it shows all the generic 

 features revealed in the type of the genus, Conus dormitor (Sowerby) * 

 from the Eocene of western Europe. The Tennessee form is probably 

 the first typical Conorbis to be reported from the Upper Cretaceous. 

 An imperfect individual from the Senonian of Ria Piabas, Brazil, 

 has been described under the name of Conorbis restitutus,^ but the 

 correctness of this generic determination has been questioned by 

 Cossmann.^ 



Family VOLUTIDJE. 



Genus HYLLUS n. gen. 



Etymology: Hyllus, a son of Hercules. 



Type: Hyllus callilateras n. sp. 



Shell large and subovoid in outline; spire obtuse or only slightly 

 elevated; whorls closely appressed, increasing in size rapidly to a 

 much inflated body; protoconch unknown; sculpture absent, external 

 surface free from ornamentation except for incremental lines which 

 show through the glazed surface; sutures obscured by callus; body 

 slightly inflated and sometimes flattened dorso-ventrally, gently 

 constricted behind, and in front it slopes gradually into a 

 broad, slightly curved short pillar; aperture broad and lenticular, 

 distinctly notched in front or produced into a short canal, slightly 

 notched posteriorly; outer lip simple and broadly arcuate; inner lip 



* Cossmann, M., 1896, Ess. de Pal. Comp., livr. II, p. 149, PI. VIII, figs. 16 et 18,. 

 ^ Wliite, C. A., 1888, Archiv de Museu Nacionale de Rio de Janeiro, vol. VII.. 

 p. 119, est. X, figs. 4, 5. 



^ Cossmann, M., loc. cit., p. 1.50. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



excavated near the anterior extremity ; columella marked by one or 

 two strong oblique columellar folds; parietal wall glazed with a 

 callus which in some forms is quite heavy; anterior fasciole broad 

 and obscured by a callus. 



This genus is proposed for a group of Volutes represented by two 

 species from Goon Creek and a third species from Owl Creek which 

 are characterized by large, inornate shells with expanded bodies and 

 low spires. This group is probably nearer Liopeplum'' than any 

 other described genus but differs from that genus very essentially in 

 the character of the spire, the outline of the body, and further in the 

 obliqueness and number of the columellar plaits. Another closely 

 related group of Volutes in the Upper Cretaceous is represented by 

 the species Melo pyriformis Forbes from the Arrialoor, South India,^ 

 a species which Cossmann has referred to the genus Scaphellay 

 Hyllus callilateris n. sp. PI. XVII, figs. 5, 6. 



Description. — Shell large and subovoid in outline, spire elevated 

 but its height probably less than the length of the aperture ; number 

 of whorls unknown; volutions increasing in size with a fair degree of 

 rapidity; apex broken away, protoconch unknown; sculpture absent, 

 external surface free from ornamentation except incremental lines 

 which show through the glazed surface, especially on the anterior 

 fasciole; suture hidden by callus; body slightly flattened dorso- 

 ventrally, somewhat inflated and sloping gently posteriorly and 

 likewise anteriorly where it merges into a broad curved pillar which 

 is marked by a wide, low anterior fasciole partly hidden by .callus; 

 aperture broad and lenticular, distinctly notched or canaliculate 

 anteriorly but the posterior notch is not well defined; outer lip 

 simple and well rounded; inner lip excavated near the anterior 

 extremity; columella marked by a single strong oblique fold; parietal 

 wall heavily calloused; callus deposited over practically the entire 

 surface of the shell and very conspicuously developed on the side of ' 

 the body opposite the aperture into a broad, thick, well-rounded 

 ridge. 



Dimensions (imperfect individual). — Altitude 97 mm.; length of 

 aperture 67.3 mm.; maximum diameter 58 mm. 



In 1860 Conrad^'' figured a form and referred to it in his index of 



" Dall, W. H., 1890, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., Vol. Ill, pt. I, p. 73. 



* Stoliczka, F., 1868, Geol. Survey India, Pal. Indica, Cret. Faunas South 

 India, Vol. II, p. 83, PL VI, figs. 9, 9a. 



» Cossmann, M., 1899, Ess. de Pal. Comp. livr., Ill, p. 127. 



10 Conrad. T. A., 1860, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser.. Vol. IV, PI. 

 XLVII, fig. 14, p. 298. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



the figures of the plate as Ancilla cretacensis, but there is no reference 

 in his text to the species nor has mention of it been found elsewhere 

 in his writings. This figure does not show all the shell features but 

 it presents characteristics that seem sufficient to say that Conrad's 

 form is a species of the new genus Hyllus. 



The species, Hyllus callilateris, is the type of the genus and is 

 represented in the present collection by one specimen which is well 

 preserved except for the loss of the apex. The species is well charac- 

 terized by the broad flat body with a heavy callus deposit on the 

 body opposite the inner lip and further by the single columellar 

 plait. 



Hyllus coloratus n. sp. PI. XVII, figs. 3, 4. 



Description. — Shell of medium size and ovoid in outline; length 

 of aperture and anterior canal greater than the elevation of the spire; 

 whorls of conch probably four in number and increasing in size with 

 a fair degree of rapidity; sculpture absent, external surface smooth 

 and free from ornamentation except for incremental lines which show 

 through a brilliant glaze; suture indistinct, hidden by a glazed callus 

 which coats the entire surface of the shell; body evenly rounded 

 posteriorly and medially but gently constricted anteriorly into a 

 short broad pillar which is marked by a 'gently elevated anterior 

 fascicle formed by increments of the anterior siphonal notch; aperture 

 lenticular, produced anteriorly into a short canal; posterior siphonal 

 notch shallow and subangular, directly in front of posterior commis- 

 sure, notch indicated behind margin of aperture by incremental 

 lines; outer lip simple and smooth; inner lip excavated; columella 

 marked by two strong oblique folds; parietal wall thinly washed with 

 callus. 



Dimensions (imperfect individual). — Altitude 5.2 mm.; maximum 

 diameter 2.4 mm. 



There are two specimens of this species and both are incomplete. 

 One of these shows a dark yellow color banding which is fixed in the 

 glaze of the external surface and is no doubt a remnant of an original 

 color pattern. The species is well characterized by the two colu- 

 mellar folds which are conspicuous on the inner lip, the inornate 

 external surface and further by the subelliptical outline of the shell. 

 This species differs from Hyllus callilateris by being much smaller 

 and having two columellar plaits instead of one and further by not 

 having a heavy deposit of callus on the body opposite the inner lip. 



20 ■ 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Genus FALSIFUSUS Grabau.n 

 Falsifusus mesozoicus n. sp. PL XVII, figs, il, 12. 



Description. — Shell small and fragile, fusiform in outline, spire 

 elevated and acute, pillar verj^ long, slender and straight; elevation 

 of spire much less than length of aperture and canal; angle of spire 

 increasing with age ; whorls closety appressed, five in number, whorls 

 of spire sharph' convex or subangular in cross-section, body inflated; 

 protoconch small, smooth and trochoid, coiled thrice ; sculpture of body 

 axial and spiral; axials strong, about ten in number on the body; 

 axial ribs angular and spinose on the keel of the shoulder of the body 

 but well rounded or nodulated on' the whorls of the spire; axials 

 absent on the shoulder and obsolete on the base of the body; spiral 

 sculpture elaborate and may be described in groups as follows: 

 a half-dozen subequal lirae on the shoulder, three on the sides of the 

 whorls of the spire, including the spiral which outlines the periphery; 

 twice as many on the medial portion of the body with intercalated 

 secondaries; four or five irregular and obscure spirals on the posterior 

 portion of the base, four stronger equal and equispaced lirse upon the 

 anterior portion of the base; about a dozen increasingly finer spirals 

 upon the pillar; suture impressed and undulated by the costse of the 

 preceding whorl; body abruptly constricted anteriorly into a long, 

 slender pillar; aperture harrow, ovate, produced in front into a long, 

 narrow canal with proximate, parallel margins; outer lip thin and 

 simple; inner lip excavated at the base of the body; columella smooth, 

 slightly twisted at the entrance of the anterior canal; parietal wall 

 thinly glazed. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 20.4 mm.; maximum diameter 8.2 mm. 



The slender and fragile shells of this species are well characterized 

 by the spinose terminations of the axials along the shoulder angle 

 of the body, the elaborate spiral sculpture and the slightly bent 

 slender pillar. The Msestrichtian species Fusus bicindus Kaun- 

 howen^^ from Belgium is probably a related species of this genus. 

 Kaunhowen's species has a higher spire and a much longer pillar than 

 the Tennessee species and resembles the type of the genus more 

 closely. These two species are the first Upper Cretaceous forms 

 to be referred to Grabau's genus Falsifusus. 



"Grabau, A. W., 1904, "Phylogeny of Fusus and its Allies," Smiths. Misc. 

 Coll., Vol. XLIV, p. 80. 



" Kaunhowen, F., 1897, Pal. Abhandl, Achter Bd., p. 82, Taf. X, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Genus BOLTENELLA n. gen. 



Etymology: Name given in honor of Bolten who appUed the name 

 Busycon to the type genus of this family. 



Type: BoUenella excellans n. sp. 



Shell of medium size, thin, fulguroid in outline; elevation of spire 

 less than the length of the aperture and anterior canal; whorls 

 closely appressed and increasing rapidly in size; protoconch smooth 

 and paucispiral, fairly large and bulbous but not greatly inflated; 

 sculpture subdued, both axial and spiral elements present; aperture 

 pyriform; outer lip simple; parietal wall washed with callus; columella 

 reinforced near the entrance of the anterior canal; pillar slender, 

 either straight or curved. 



This new genus is proposed to include a group of forms known 

 from two species, one from Coon Creek, represented by several well 

 preserved individuals and another from the Upper Cretaceous of 

 Vaals, Germany, well illustrated and described by Holzapfel. The 

 German species, Hemifusus coronatus (Roemer) HolzapfeP^ has 

 been variously assigned by different authors since the days of Roemer 

 to such genera as Pyrula, Fusus, Rapa, Tritonidea, Tudida, and 

 lastly to Hemifusus by Holzapfel. The discovery of a related species 

 in the Ripley formation of Tennessee is further evidence of the 

 existence of a well defined group, characterized by a fulguroid outline, 

 a large, paucispiral protoconch and further by the subdued spiral 

 and axial ornamentation of the outer surface, as well as a slender 

 pillar in front of an inflated body. The fulguroid outline and fairly 

 large protoconch seem sufficient to tie the group to the family 

 Busyconidse, yet there are many features that suggest the Fusidse. 

 The genus Boltenella is probably intermediate between these two 

 families but more nearly like the Busyconidse yet not near enough 

 to true Busycon to be included in the group Protobusycon'^^ since it is 

 a much smaller form with a different type of pillar and external 

 ornamentation. Among the Fusidse it resembles Falsi fusus Grabau/^ 

 but that group is typically more slender. Its spire is elevated and 

 acuminate and the pillar is very long and straight. It is not typically 

 fulguroid in outline as is the group for which the name Boltenella is 

 proposed. 



" Holzapfel, E., 1888, Palceontographica, Bd. XXXIV, p. 105, Taf. XI, figs. 8-13. 



i*Type: P. cretaceum Wade, 1917, Am. Jour. Sci., Vol. XLIII, No. 256, 

 p. 293, figs. 1, 2. 



" Grabau, A. W., 1904, Smiths. Misc. Collections, Vol. XLIV, p. 80, 81, fig. 4. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Boltenella exoellans n. sp. PL XVIII, figs. 3, 4. 



Description. — Shell of medium size and thin; elevation of the spire 

 less than the length of the aperture; whorls closely appressed and 

 strongly shouldered by a broad concave shelf, whorls five in number, 

 increasing in size from a minute apical whorl to a much inflated body; 

 protoconch fairly large and bulbous; smooth and naticoid, coiled 

 two and a half times; sculpture well defined but somewhat subdued; 

 axials elevated and low, well rounded and short, persisting on the 

 whorls of the spire to the anterior suture but evanescing a little in 

 front of the shoulder angle of the body, axial ribs nodulated on the 

 body, nodes occurring directly upon the shoulder angle while the 

 axials persist for a short distance across the shoulder; spiral sculpture 

 low and fine, slightly irregular with secondary spirals developed in the 

 interspiral depressions near the aperture; spirals microscopically 

 roughened by the intersection of numerous incremental lines; suture 

 appressed and undulated by the axial ribs of the preceding whorl; 

 body much inflated, shouldered behind, rounded or globose in front, 

 and merging into a long straight pillar which may be straight or 

 curved; aperture broadly ovate, grooved at the posterior commissure 

 and produced in front into a narrow canal; outer lip thin and simple; 

 inner lip excavated at the base of the body; columella smooth, 

 reinforced at the entrance of the anterior canal by a deposit of callus; 

 parietal wall thinly glazed, outer margin of the wash sharply defined. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 38.4 mm.; elevation of spire 13.5 mm.; 

 maximum diameter 18.7 mm. 



This species is represented in the Coon Creek collection by several 

 well preserved specimens, a few of which show the protoconch. 

 The species is characterized by fulguroid shells which are ornamented 

 on the external surface both by axial and spiral sculpture. They 

 have a broad, slightly concave shoulder and the angle of the shoulder 

 is nodulated on the body by the axial elevations. 



Genus SCOBINA n. gen. 



Etymology: Scohina, a file or rasp, name applied because of the 

 rasp-like character of the incremental serrations along the anterior 

 carina of the type species. 



Type: Scohina hicarinata n. sp. 



Shell moderately large and strong, top-shaped in outline; spire 

 acute at the apex, its elevation less than half the total altitude of the 

 shell; protoconch scar small; whorls closely appressed, obliquely 

 shouldered, whorls of spire unicarinate, body flattened along the 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



narrow peripheral region, abruptly constricted in front of the periph- 

 ery; sculpture spiral, spinose and laminated in the type species; 

 incrementals sinuous in character, forming a reentrant angle along 

 the posterior keel ; aperture subovate, produced in front into a narrow 

 canal; outer lip sinuous at the shoulder angle; inner lip reflected, 

 not always adnate to the body and pillar, a chink occasionally present 

 between the inner lip and pillar; pillar slender and elongate often 

 curved or bent near the anterior extremity. 



This genus has an acute spire and is characterized by a highly 

 inflated body with a narrow peripheral region abruptly constricted 

 in front of this periphery. The pillar is long and variable. The 

 sculpture is dominantly spiral with laminar, somewhat zig-zag 

 incremental lines. This genus is proposed to include two known 

 species, one from Coon Creek and another from both Ripley and 

 Dumas, Mississippi, both of which are represented by several well 

 preserved specimens that present generic features that cannot be 

 included within the limits of any* of the described groups. The 

 general form of the genus suggests Hercorhijnchus^^ or possibly 

 Pyrifusus. However, the strong sinuations of the axials along the 

 shoulder is a character by which it may be readily separated from 

 any of the previously known Busyconidse. There is a tendency 

 toward low, obtuse spires in most of the genera of this family, yet 

 some forms, such as Pyrifusus, are acute at the apex. With age, 

 however, this low angle of the spire greatly increases, a feature very 

 characteristic of Scobina. The strongly inflated, bicarinate body of 

 the South Indian Upper Cretaceous form Rapa cancellata (ex parte) 

 Stoliczka^^ resembles Scobina somewhat but the South Indian form 

 is umbilicate, and not acute spirally. Ra2)a has a well defined um- 

 bilicus. Pyropsis differs from Scobina in having a low spire and no 

 laminar incremental ornamentation. These characters will also 

 serve to separate Scobina from Trochifusus}^ 



Scobina bicarinata n. sp. PI. XVIII, figs, l, 2. 



Description. — Shell of medium size and top-shaped; spire acute 

 at the apex, its elevation less than half the total altitude of the shell; 

 angle of spire increasing with age; whorls six in number, closely 

 appressed, increasing in size to an inflated body, whorls of spire 



16 Conrad, T. A., 1860, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., Vol. IV, p. 286, 

 Pi. XLVI, fig. 4; 1868, Amer. Jour. Conch., Vol. IV, p. 247. 



" Stoliczka, F., 1868, Geol. Survey India, Pal. Indica, Cret. Faunas South 

 India, Vol. II, p. 154, PI. XII, figs. 12-16. 



18 Gabb, W. M., 1876, Pkuc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phh.a., p. 285. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



strongly shouldered and unicarinate; protoconch scar small; body 

 broad and angular, the peripheral area narrow, flattened, biearmate, 

 the posterior body slope broad and conspicuous, the anterior slope 

 is a little more gentle and a little broader than the posterior slope, 

 especially in old individuals; sculpture both axial and spiral, spiral 

 ornamentation consisting of the two carinse on the periphery and six 

 or seven low spiral ridges on the anterior slope of the body and on the 

 pillar; posterior slope of whorls free from well defined sculpture; 

 spirals intersected by deeply angular and laminar axials which are 

 irregularly spaced and about twenty or less in number on the body; 

 spirals spinose at the intersections of the incrementals; spines strong- 

 est along the posterior carina, anterior carina an aggregation of six 

 or seven strong spiral threads that terminate sharply at the incre- 

 mental lines, making axials at these points finely serrate; three or 

 four similar threads appear between the two carinse on the peripheral 

 area; on the anterior slope of the whorl spines are low or tuberculate; 

 aperture ovate, slightly angular behind and produced in front into 

 a long, narrow canal with proximate parallel margins; margin of 

 outer lip thin, deeply angulated at the posterior carina, abruptly 

 constricted at the base of the body; inner lip excavated medially, 

 reflected and adnate on the body and the pillar on immature indi- 

 viduals ]3ut not in adults, a deep, broad and elongate cavity developed 

 in mature forms between the inner lip and the pillar; columella 

 smooth ; pillar slender, slightly curved or bent in an irregular manner 

 near the anterior extremity. 



Dimensions (slightly imperfect individual). — Altitude 26.6 mm.; 

 maximum diameter 25.2 mm. 



This species is well characterized by its pyriform outline, and 

 especially by its bicarinate widely expanded body which is ornamented 

 with laminar spinose axial lines. It is common at Coon Creek and 

 represented in the present collection by a number of individuals 

 which show a wide variation in form and size. Further collecting 

 at the type locality may result in the isolation of other species of 

 this group. An undescribed tricarinate species of this genus occurs 

 at Owl Creek, Mississippi. 



Genus LIROSOMA Conrad. 

 Lirosoma cretacea n. isp. PL XVIII, figs, o, 6. 



Description. — Shell fairly large and stout, pyriform; spire low and 

 obtuse, its elevation less than half the total altitude of the shell; 

 whorls five to eight in number, strongly and evenh'^ convex, rapidly 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



increasing in size; protoconch rather small, smooth and very low, 

 coiled two and a half times, initial turn minute and completely 

 immersed in the succeeding whorl, remaining nuclear turns very low 

 and broadly rounded, becoming increasingly higher toward the close 

 of the protoconch; sculpture very ornate, incremental striations very 

 numerous and well developed in interspiral depressions but obsolete 

 for the most part on the crests of the spiral fillets, axial ribbing 

 irregular in strength and occurrence, tending to develop into varices 

 at more or less regular intervals; spiral bands or fillets about fourteen 

 in number on the body, becoming low and crowded on the pillar, 

 fillets narrow, rectangular in cross-section, widely and irregularly 

 spaced; suture sharply impressed; body well rounded, constricted in 

 front into a narrow slightly curved pillar, aperture pyriform; outer 

 lip broken away; inner lip excavated at the base of the body, reflected 

 but adnate along the middle of the pillar; columella smooth, enlarged 

 at the entrance of the anterior canal; parietal wash very thin. 



Dimensions (immature individual). — Altitude 24.9 mm.; maximum 

 diameter 14.8 mm. 



This species is well characterized by its stout fusiform outline, 

 deeply impressed suture and highly ornate external surface. Only 

 two individuals are known. They were collected from Coon Creek 

 and are the first representatives of this genus to be reported from 

 the Cretaceous. It is interesting to find these shells in the American 

 Cretaceous since the genus is already well known in the American 

 Tertiary. Lirosoma cretacea resembles L. sidcosa Conrad^^, the type 

 of the genus which comes from the Chesapeake Miocene, in general 

 form, lirate ornamentation and character of the protoconch, but 

 differs widely from the Miocene species in detail of sculpture and 

 in the presence of irregular axial ribs which tend to develop into 

 varices at more or less regular intervals. The species Tortifiisus 

 curvirostra Conrad from the Miocene of North Carolina and Virginia 

 is regarded by Cossmann^" as another species of Lirosoma. 



The genus Ranularia Schumacher is another group of forms which 

 should be considered in determining the generic relations of the 

 Upper Cretaceous species described above. The French Eocene 

 form Ranularia piraster (Lamarck) which is figured and regarded 

 by Cossmann-^ as very typical of that genus, has a stout fusiform 



" Conrad, T. A., 1830, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Vol. VI, 1st ser., p. 220, 

 PL IX, fig. 8; Martin, G. C, 1904, Md. Geol. Survey, Miocene, p. 183, PI. XLVII 

 fig. 1- 



20 Cossmann, M., 1901, Ess. de Pal. Comp., livr. iv, p. 79. 



21 Idem., 1903, livr. v, p. 97, PI. Ill, fig. 12. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.^ 



outline, Urate sculpture and varicose axials, all of which present a 

 general aspect which strongly suggests the Cretaceous species under 

 discussion. Ranularia piraster, however, has a dentate inner margin 

 on the outer lip, a feature characteristic of the Tritonidse but not 

 present on Lirosoma cretacea and uncommon in the Busyconidse. 



Family BUOCINID^. 



Genus SEMINOLA n. gen. 



Etymology: Seminoles, a tribe of Indians who formerly lived in 

 the southeastern coastal plain region. 



Type: Seminola crassa n. sp. 



Shell compact, of medium size or large, globose; spire low; whorls 

 not very numerous, increasing rapidly in size to an inflated body; 

 protoconch unknown; both axial and spiral sculpture developed, the 

 axial more or less obsolete on the body of the adult ; suture obscure 

 or deeply impressed; body well rounded medially, constricted and 

 folded inward at the base of the body where a deep sulcus, parallel 

 to the spiral sculpture, separates the body from the pillar; aperture 

 broad and subovate, produced anteriorly into a short, recurved canal; 

 outer lip simple or varicose, a strong tooth-like projection occurring 

 on the margin at the anterior extremity of the spiral sulcus at the 

 base of the body; inner lip excavated medially; columella reinforced, 

 marked by an oblique plication near the anterior extremity and 

 along the margin of the anterior canal; parietal wall calloused, 

 sometimes heavily; pillar broad and short, slightly recurved; um- 

 bilical chink shallow; anterior fasciole broad, oblique, heavily 

 corrugated. 



This genus is well characterized by globose shells of different 

 sizes, having both spiral and axial sculpture variously developed. 

 The pillar is broad and short, being separated from the body by a 

 deep spiral sulcus that terminates with a tooth-like projection on the 

 margin of the outer lip, a shell character which possibly indicates the 

 former position of the eye-stalk of the animal. The genus is proposed 

 to include five species heretofore unknown in the literature : two from 

 Coon Creek, one from Owl Creek, and two from the Ripley of Texas; 

 and one species from Pataula Creek, Georgia, described by Gabb 

 under the name of Nassa globosaP- There is no figure of this species, 

 but the type, which is imperfect, may be seen at the Museum of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The generic deter- 



22 Gabb, W. M., 1876, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 282. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



mination of Gabb's species was questioned by Johnson^^ in 1905. 

 The evidences furnished by recently discovered material from Coon 

 Creek shows that these related species from the Ripley do not belong 

 to the genus Nassa but represent a large, undescribed group of 

 magnificent forms which belong to the family Buccinidse. This 

 group is no doubt near Meek's genus Odontobasis.-^ Seminola differs 

 from Odontohasis in having a globose or ovoid form rather than a 

 fusiform outline. Another closely related genus of the Buccinidse 

 is Pseudoliva.-'" Swainson, represented in the Senonian by Pseudoliva 

 zitteli Petho'-'^ from Hungary. .The spiral groove in Pseudoliva occurs 

 well up on the body and is nothing more than a deep spiral sulcus 

 in the sculpture pattern and differs very decidedly from the deep 

 spiral sulcus at the base of the body of Seminola. The Nassidse 

 usually have a crenulate or dentate outer lip and lack the marginal 

 fold on the anterior end of the columella and do not have such a deep 

 spiral sulcus at the base of the body which terminates in a tooth on 

 the outer lip of the aperture. 

 Seminola crassa n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 6, 7. 



Description. — Shell large and globose; spire low and obtuse, its 

 elevation about one-third the total altitude, whorls six in number 

 and increasing rapidly in size to a much inflated body; sculpture 

 elaborate, axials sharply rounded, coarse and strong; twelve in 

 number on the later whorls of the type, short and retractive, very 

 prominent on the shoulders of the whorls but disappearing abruptly 

 just in front of an undulating sutural band and persisting, though 

 with somewhat diminished strength, to the anterior suture and 

 on the early part of the body to the base; on the final half turn, 

 however, restricted almost entirely to the posterior third; spiral 

 sculpture low and irregular, consisting of a half-dozen equal and 

 equi-spaced coarse and somewhat flattened cords upon the penult 

 and twice as many on the early part of the ultima, secondary spirals 

 are introduced near the base of the first half and these increase in 

 prominence so that toward the aperture, they are almost as strong 

 as the primaries; there are two or three feeble secondary spirals on 

 the sutural band; suture deeply impressed, strongly canaliculate on 

 the later volutions; body constricted posteriorly, sloping rapidly in 



23 Johnson, C. W., 1905, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 23. . 



24 Meek and Havden, 1876, U. S. Geol. Survey of the Terr., Vol. IX, pp. 351- 

 354, text figs. 41. 42, 4.3, PI. 191, figs. 1, a, b, c. 



25 Cossmann, M., 1901, Ess. de Pal. Comp., livr. IV, pp. 191, 192. 



26 Zittel, Text-book of Paleontology, English ed., 1913, Vol. II, p. 556, fig. 1012. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



front to the base, where it is abruptly constricted or wrinkled, forming 

 a conspicuous spiral sulcus which separates the body from the 

 pillar; aperture subovate, grooved posteriori}' and produced anteriorly- 

 into a short, broad, slightly recurved canal; outer lip thin and crenu- 

 lated along the margin in harmony with the spiral sculpture, thickened 

 or varicose in very old individuals; inner lip excavated and calloused; 

 parietal wash very thick and heavy in old individuals; columella 

 reinforced, marked by a very oblique fold near the anterior extremity 

 and along the margin of the anterior canal; pillar short and broad; 

 umbilical chink shallow; anterior fasciole a broad and oblique ridge 

 registering the incremental stages of the anterior canal, extremity 

 broadly and quite deeply emarginate. 



Dimensions (immature individual). — Altitude 54.5 mm.; maximum 

 diameter 35 mm. 



This magnificent species is common at Coon Creek but even though 

 the shells are thick and fairly strong the specimens are nearly always 

 crushed as they occur in the matrix, so that perfect specimens are 

 rarely obtained. The shells reach considerable dimensions; imperfect 

 specimens in the collection show that some individuals had an 

 altitude of about 80 mm. and a maximum diameter of about 50 mm. 

 The species is well characterized by the retractive axials which are 

 unusually elevated and strongly rounded. The interaxials are 

 unusual because they are so deep and narrow. The spiral sculpture 

 consists of both primary and secondary cords. The peculiar spiral 

 sulcus at the base of the body is conspicuous on the outer wall of the 

 shell but produces little or' no effect on the inner surface of the shell 

 wall within the body cavity. 

 Seminola solida n. sp. PI. XIX, figs, l, 2. 



Description. — Shell of medium size and rather stout or coarse, 

 globose in outline; spire low and obtuse, its elevation about one-third 

 the total altitude of the shell ; whorls five in number on an incomplete 

 individual, rapidly increasing in size to an inflated body; sculpture 

 elaborate, both axial and spiral, axial costse seventeen to eighteen on 

 the body, subequal and subequispaced, very narrow, abruptly 

 elevated, somewhat incremental in character, terminating abruptly 

 at the shoulder and diminishing in strength upon the anterior slope 

 of the body; inter-costal spaces concave and not so wide as the 

 costse; spirals less coarse than axials but overriding them; fillets 

 ten in number on the ultima and two on the penultima, spirals equal 

 and equispacecl, more prominently elevated on the summits of the 

 costals than in the inter-costal areas; an unornamented sutural 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



ridge developed just behind the shoulder and in front of the suture, 

 closely appressed to the preceding whorl; suture impressed, crenu- 

 lated by the costals of the preceding whorl ; body abruptly constricted, 

 €ut off from the pillar by a conspicuous spiral sulcus; aperture 

 pyriform, produced anteriorly into a short, sharply recurved canal; 

 outer lip crenulated along the margin in harmony with the spirals; 

 inner lip heavily calloused, excavated medially; columella reinforced, 

 marked by a strong, oblique marginal fold; parietal wash heavy and 

 terminating in a sharp line along its outer margin; umbilical chink 

 shallow and obscure; anterior fasciole well defined, deeply emarginate 

 (Sit its extremity. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 24.4 mm.; maximum diameter 19.4 mm. 



This species is well characterized l)y its low spire and globose 

 outline. It differs from Seminola crassa in that it is much smaller 

 in size, in character of the pillar and in having long axial costse 

 parallel to the axis and persisting from the shoulder to well down on 

 the anterior part of the body. The axial costse of Seminola crassa 

 .are retractive and more deeply impressed, even in young individuals. 

 S. solida has a pillar and marginal columellar fold much the same as 

 Gabb's species of this genus, which was described under the name 

 •of Nassa globosa-'' but that species is much larger, its external ornamen- 

 tation tends to become obsolete on the later whorls. 



Family PURPURID^. 



Genus ECPHORA Conrad. 



Ecphora proquadricostata n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 7. 



Description. — Shell small and fragile, umbilicate pyriform, spire 

 depressed; whorls four or five in number and increasing rapidly in 

 size; line of separation between conch and protoconch not sharply 

 marked, two and a half nuclear turns, the initial turn is minute and 

 ■completely submerged in the rounded second whorl which becomes 

 increasingly higher toward its close, the shoulder angle is initiated 

 at the beginning of the third turn and toward the close of this turn 

 this angle develops into a spiral; sculpture spiral, consisting of four 

 regularly spaced and abruptly elevated, narrow spiral ridges on the 

 body whorl and only two on the volutions of the spire; interspiral 

 spaces concave and profound, approximately twice as mde as the 

 spirals, spiral depressions crossed by numerous, faint incremental 

 lines; suture line appressed and following the second spiral; body 



2' Gabb, W. M., 1876, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 282. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.,. 



laterally expanded, equally strongly constricted anteriorly and 

 posteriorly, forming a broad shoulder behind and a decided con- 

 striction at the base of the body; aperture subcircular, produced in 

 front into a short, slightly curved canal with proximate parallel 

 margins, outer lip thickened a little along the margin, serrated by 

 the extremities of the four spiral ridges, shallow sulcus occurring on 

 the inner surface beneath each spiral ridge of the outer surface, two 

 low denticles developed between each pair of sulci along the inner 

 margin of the outer lip; inner lip broadly excavated at the base of 

 the body, sharply angulated at the entrance of the anterior canal; 

 umbilicus profound; umbilical keel prominent, slightty varicose and 

 flaring. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 11.4 mm.; maximum diameter 9.5 mm. 

 This species is well characterized by its low but acute spire, its 

 four strong spiral ridges and further by a slightly dentate inner 

 margin of the outer lip. It is represented in the Coon Creek collec- 

 tion by four or five specimens, the one selected for the type is perfectly 

 preserved and its generic relations can hardly be doubted. This 

 elegant little species is of special interest since it is the first repre- 

 sentative of this genus, so well known in the later Tertiary of the 

 Atlantic Coastal Plain to be found in the Upper Cretaceous. No 

 Eocene representatives are known from the Coastal Plain of the 

 United States so that the discovery of a typical Ecphora in the 

 Upper Cretaceous indicates that species of this well known genus 

 may be expected in the earliest Tertiary marine sediments of the 

 Southeastern United States. About a half-dozen species of Ecphora 

 are known from the Oligocene and the Miocene and are given in 190)3^ 

 in Cossmann's Essais de Paleoconchologie Comparee as follows: 

 Oligocene — 



Stenomphalus cancellatus Sandberg, France. 



Rapana tampaensis Dall, United States. 



Peristernia succinda T. Woods, Australia. 

 Miocene — 



Ecphora quadricostata Conrad, United States. 



Ecphora tricostata Martin, United States. 



Stenomphalus wiechmanni von Koenen, German3^ 



Rapana moulinsi Brochon, France. 



The protoconch of Ecphora proquadricostata is similar to that of 



E. quadricostata Conrad^^ the type of the genus, though different in 



28 Conrad, 1843, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Vol. I, p. 310. See synonymy 

 n Martin, G. C, 1904, Maryland Geol. Survey, Miocene, p. 207. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



•detail. Both are small, shelly, coiled two and a half times and not 

 sharply differentiated from the conchs. Both nuclei are elevated 

 or trochoid but that of the type species is the higher. The apical 

 tips or initial points of the protoconchs of both species are immersed 

 in the later nuclear turns but this is probably more pronounced in 

 E. lyroquadricostata. 



Genus PARAMOEEA n. gen. 



Etymology: llapd^ near, Morea, a genus of gastropods. 



Type: Paramorea lirata n. sp. 



Shell small and porcellanous, ovate-conic in outline; spire acute, 

 less than half the total altitude of the shell; protoconch scar small; 

 conch solid and slightly glazed, paucispiral; axial sculpture absent; 

 spiral sculpture well defined; aperture ovate, deeply notched in front; 

 outer lip well rounded, its margin simple or slightly crenulated; inner 

 lip excavated and thinly glazed; columella slender and marked by a 

 feeble oblique plait or twist of the pillar near the anterior extremity; 

 umbilical chink narrow, oblique and deep, canal short and broad. 



This genus is proposed to include a single species from Coon Creek 

 which seems to represent a group of univalves related to Morea. 

 This species is well characterized by its sharp spiral sculpture, deeply 

 notched aperture, and further by its very oblique and narrow um- 

 bilicus or umbilical chink with a general aspect and generic features 

 that do not allow it to fit naturally into any known genus of related 

 shells. The type of the genus Morea?'^ was described from the Ripley 

 formation. Two or three species other than the type also occur at 

 that horizon so that it is not surprising to find another group related 

 to this very unique genus in the Upper Cretaceous of the southeastern 

 states. The genus Paramorea differs froni Morea in having instead 

 of a well defined umbilicus a narrow and oblique chink, and in the 

 development of only spiral ornamentation instead of both spiral and 

 axial, in the acute spire and in the absence of a strongly reflected 

 inner lip such as that of Morea. In general aspect, i. e., the acute 

 spire, strong spiral sculpture and narrow umbilicus this genus greatly 

 resembles Trichotropis in features as presented by the recent North 

 Atlantic species Trichotropis horealis Broderip and Sowerby,^** but 

 differs from that form in having a strong anterior notch or short open 

 canal. In 1889, C. A. White described and figured an imperfect 

 specimen from the Chico series of Shasta county, California, a species 



23 Conrad, T. A., 1860, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser.. Vol. IV, p. 290, 

 PI. 46, fig. 30. 



30 Adams, H. and A., 1858. Genera Recent Moll, Vol. I, p. 279, PL 29, fig. 6. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.,. 



which he questionably referred to the genus Siomatia. This form, 

 Stoynaiia ohstricta White,^^ although it is represented by a cast, pre- 

 sents an outline together with a spiral ornamentation and an indica- 

 tion of an umbilical chink which suggest the genus Paramorea.^ 

 Until more perfect specimens of the California species are known its 

 generic position will probably remain uncertain. 

 Paramorea lirata n. sp. PI. XVII, figs. 9, 10. 



Description. — Shell small and porcellanous, ovate-conic in outline;, 

 spire acute, its elevation a little less than the length of the aperture; 

 whorls closely appressed and shouldered; increasing in size with a 

 fair degree of rapidity; protoconch scar small; sculpture sharply 

 spiral, consisting of six well defined lirse on the penult and thirteen 

 on the ultima, lirae strongest and most widely spaced on the posterior 

 edge of the whorls, on the anterior portion of the body the spiral 

 threads are closely spaced, the interspaces being narrower than the 

 lirae, lirae intersected and slightly interrupted by incremental lines; 

 suture distinct; body abruptly constricted posteriorly, forming a 

 narrow shoulder, body convex medially and well rounded in front; 

 aperture ovate, deeply notched anteriorly; outer lip evenly rounded,, 

 very slightly crenulated along the margin, subangular and a little 

 thickened at the entrance of the anterior canal; inner lip excavated, 

 parietal wall washed with a thin callus; columella slender, marked 

 by a very feeble and oblique fold or twist of the pillar near the 

 anterior extremity; umbilical chink very narrow and oblique, the 

 last of the body spirals abnormal and constituting an obtuse umbilical 

 keel; anterior canal short and open. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 7.3 mm.; maximum diameter 4.7 mm. 



Only two individuals of this elegant little species, which is the 

 type of the genus, are known. They are well characterized by their 

 spiral ornamentation, deeply notched aperture and further by the 

 very oblique and narrow umbilical chink. The shell material is 

 porcellanous and hard. One of the specimens has a brownish axial 

 banding fixed in the shell material which seems to be a remnant of 

 an ancient color pattern. 



Family CERITHID^. 



Genus NUDIVAGUS n. gen. 



Etymology: Nudus, unadorned; vagus, a straggler. 

 Type: Nudivagus simplicus n. sp. 



31 White, C. A., 1889, Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 51, p. 18, PI. IV, figs. 10, 11 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Shell fairly large and simple, elongate conical; spire elevated and 

 acute; aperture less than one-third as high as the entire shell; whorls 

 of conch numerous, flattened and wide, increasing in size regularly 

 and slowly; protoconch small and trochoid, coiled about three times, 

 line between the conch and protoconch poorly defined; external 

 surface usually smooth and glazed; sculpture absent and subdued; 

 incremental varices occasionally present; suture simple and distinct; 

 body abruptly constricted in front of the periphery into the short, 

 curved pillar; aperture lenticular, angular behind and produced in 

 front into a short canal; outer lip thin and simple; inner lip excavated; 

 parietal wall glazed; columella smooth. 



This genus is proposed to include a group of gastropo'ds charac- 

 terized by simple, elongate-conical shells with unadorned external 

 surfaces. The aperture is subovate, considerably narrowed toward 

 each end, terminating anteriorly in a short canal. Besides the type, 

 two other species are known, one of which was described under the 

 name of Cerithium {Fibula f) detedum^^ by Stoliczka from the Arria- 

 loor group of beds from the Upper Cretaceous of South India: the 

 other under the name of Pseudomelania astonensis^^ by Huddleston 

 from the upper division of the Inferior Oolite of England. Nudivagus 

 differs from Cerithium, however, in the character of the aperture and 

 in the absence of a strongly twisted columella and from Clava in 

 having a non-plicate columella. Nudivagus is probably near Gymno- 

 cerithium^^ but differs from the latter in having less numerous whorls 

 which are of greater height and less convexity. The new genus 

 differs from Pseudomelania in the presence of an anterior canal. 

 Meek's genus Closteriscus^^ includes elongate-conical forms somewhat 

 similar to Nudivagus in outline and lack of external ornamentation, 

 but the former, however, possesses well defined tooth-like, internal 

 varices not found in the body cavities of the latter. 



Nudivagus simplicus n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 4, 5. 



Description. — Shell fairly large and simple; thick but very friable, 

 outline elongate-conical; spire elevated and acute, its elevation more 

 than twice as great as the length of the aperture; whorls ten in num- 

 ber, closely appressed; obliquely flattened, increasing gradually and 



'2 Stoliczka, F., 1868, Geol. Survey of India, Pal. Indica, Cret. Faunas Southern 

 India, Vol. II, p. 192, PI. XV, fig. 1. 



33 Huddleston, W. H., 1896, Pal. Soc. London, Monogr. Inferior Oolite, Gastro- 

 poda, p. 245, PI. XVIII, figs. 8a, b. 



34 Cossmann, M., 1906, Ess. de Pal. comp., livr. VII, p. 36, PI. VII, fig. 17. 



35 Meek and Hayden, 1876, U. S. Geol. Survey of the Terr., Inv. Pal. Vol. IX,. 

 p. 306. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



regularly in size from the apex to the ultima; protoconch not dis- 

 tinctly separate from the conch, consisting probably of three volu- 

 tions which slope less steeply than do those of the conch; external 

 surface highly polished; sculpture absent, excepting for very fine and 

 crowded spirals and faint incrementals, discernible with a lens in the 

 glaze of the external surface; suture indicated by a simple slightly 

 impressed spiral line; body abruptly constricted in front of the 

 periphery and produced into a narrow recurved pillar; aperture 

 lenticular; terminating anteriorly in a narrow, rather long, recurved 

 canal; outer lip thin and simple; inner lip excavated medially, washed, 

 with a thin callus; columella smooth. 



Dimensions (slightly imperfect individual). — Altitude 76.2 mm.; 

 maximum diameter 22.5 mm. 



This species is the type of the genus and is well characterized by 

 its broad, flat whorls and the fine, crowded spiral lines that show 

 through the glaze of the external surface. The shells are relatively 

 thick but not strong. They are fairly common at Coon Creek, but 

 so fragile that not a single perfect specimen has as yet been recovered 

 from the sediments. 



Genus ASTANDES n. gen. 



Etymology: 'AaTdv8rj<i^ a messenger. 



Type: Astandes densatus n. sp. 



Shell small and trochoid in outline; aperture of the type specimen 

 less than half the entire length of the shell; protoconch small, smooth 

 and trochoid; whorls of conch circular in cross-section and increasing 

 gradually in size; external sculpture both axial and spiral, axials well 

 rounded and retractive; spirals lirate; suture impressed; body equally 

 constricted in front and behind; aperture D-shaped and produced 

 in front into a short shallow canal; outer lip thickened and dentate; 

 parietal wall washed with a callus; umbilicus imperforate. 



This genus is very much like Cerithioderma Conrad^® in general 

 outline, the circular cross-section of the whorls and in the axial and 

 spiral sculpture, but differs from it in the less acuminate spire and 

 the imperforate umbilicus. It resembles Paladmete Gardner,^^ but 

 differs from that group in having a short anterior canal. The genus 

 is proposed to include a species recently discovered at Coon Creek 

 and two other known species in the European Upper Cretaceous. 



3" Conrad, T. A., 1860, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser. Vol. IV, p. 295, 

 PI. 47, fig. 30. Cossmann, lyl., 1906, Ess. de Pal. Comp., livr. VII, p. 191. 



" Gardner, J. A., 1916, Md. Geol. Survey, Upper Cret., p. 412, PI. XVIII, 

 fiss. 14, 15. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



One of these occurs in the Aachen Cretaceous of Vaals, Germany, 

 and was described in 1851 by Miiller, and referred to the genus 

 Tritonium;^^ the other is a closely related form from the Msestrichtian 

 of Belgium which Kaunhowen^'^ compares with Miiller's species from 

 Vaals, but does not apply a name to it. Astandes differs from Trito- 

 nium or Nyctilochus in lacking of true varicose axials and in a shorter 

 and much less strongly developed anterior canal. 



Astandes densatus n. sp. PI. XVII, figs. 7, S. 



Descrijjtion. — Shell small and nearly trochoid in outline; spire 

 moderately elevated and more than half the length of the entire 

 shell; protoconch small and smooth; whorls of conch six in number, 

 circular in cross-section and increasing in size gradually; external 

 sculpture both axial and spiral; axials fairly coarse, well rounded 

 and retractive, evanescing on the base of the body; axials overridden 

 by numerous elevated spiral lines; aperture D-shaped, produced 

 anteriorly into a short shallow canal; outer lip slightly thickened and 

 dentate; parietal wall washed with a callus. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 11.5 mm.; maximum diameter 7 mm. 



This species is characterized by the elevated spiral lines which 

 override the protractive axials and further by the dentate outer lip. 

 It is represented in the present collection by several individuals. 

 No closely related American species is known, but the Tennessee 

 form may be compared with the Maestrichtian species Tritojiium cf. 

 cretaceum (Miiller) Kaunhowen/'^ which reseml)les it very much in 

 form of aperture and character of external ornamentation but differs 

 in details of external sculpture. 



Family SOALID^. 

 Genus ACIRSA Morch. 

 Acirsa microstriata n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 8. 



Description. — Shell of medium size, thin and strong; form an 

 elongate, simple, slender cone; spire acuminate; volutions eleven on 

 the type individual which has the apical tip broken away, probaljlj^ 

 fourteen on the original, whorls increasing regularly in size from apex 

 to ultima, volutions flattened laterally, penultima and ultima very 

 slightly constricted toward the sutures; protoconch unknown; 



^* Tritonium cretaceum Holzapfel, 1888, Paloeontographica, Band xxxiv, 113, 

 Taf. X, figs. 5-7. 



'9 Kaunhowen, F., 1897, Pal. Abhandl, Acht. Bd., p. 77, Taf. ix, figs. 4, 4a; 

 Taf. xiii, Fig. 12. 



*o Kaunhowen, F., 1898, loc. cit. 



21 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Sept., 



sculpture barely visible to the unaided eye, axial sculpture restricted 

 to strong and conspicuous incremental lines, occurring at irregular 

 intervals, and to low, obscure and unequal axial wrinkles on the 

 periphery of the whorl; spiral sculpture microscopically fine but 

 sharp, consisting of about fifteen closely spaced feebly impressed 

 lines to each of the whorls of the spire, but about thirty-five on the 

 sides and base of the body; suture simple and appressed, posterior 

 edges of whorls very sharp in front of suture; peripheral angle obtuse, 

 base of body broadly rounded; aperture holostomous, obliquely 

 ovate, angulated at the posterior commissure; outer lip rounded 

 and slightly effuse at the anterior, its curvature higher than that 

 of the inner lip; inner lip smoothly glazed and reflected concealing 

 the umbilical chink; parietal wash thin, columella smooth. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 31.5 mm.; maximum diameter 9.9 mm. 



Only one shell of this species is known and this individual aside 

 from the loss of its apical tip is as strong and well preserved as if it 

 were a recent shell. Chemnitzia cerithiformis Meek and Hayden^^ 

 from the Fox Hills group of the Upper Missouri Cretaceous no doubt 

 belongs to the same genus. In 1860, Meek and Hayden^- in a check 

 list referred this species to the genus Scala (Acirsa) but in their final 

 description it was assigned to the genus Chemnitzia. After a study 

 of Cossmann's very comprehensive work on the Scalidse^^ and three 

 species, including Chemnitzia cerithiformis, recently collected from 

 Coon Creek, it seems that Meek and Hay den's species was an Acirsa 

 and that the other two Tennessee species are congeneric. 



Acirsa corrugata n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. 9. 



Description. — Shell small and slender; form elongate-conic, spire 

 acuminate; whorls eleven in number, slightly convex and increasing 

 in size regularly and very slowly; protoconch scar small; sculpture 

 elaborate, consisting of both axial and spiral elements; axial eleva- 

 tions strong and crowded on the early whorls of the spire, but becoming 

 lower and more widely spaced on the later volutions; spiral sculpture 

 overriding the axials, but very obscure on their summits; spiral sculp- 

 ture consisting of low, crowded thread-like lirae, sixteen to twenty in 

 number on the later whorls of the spire and with slightly wider 

 additional spirals on the base of the body; interspiral areas marked 

 b}^ very fine and regular pittings; suture distinctly impressed; 



« Meek and Hayden, 1876, U. S. Geol. Survey of the Terr., Vol. IX, p. 339, 

 PL 32, figs. 10a, b. 



"' Meek and Hayden, 1860, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Puila., XII, p. 185. 

 "s Cossmann, M., 1912, Ess. de Pal. Comp., pp. 16-102. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



body very slightly constricted in front of the posterior margin; 

 peripheral angle obtuse, base of body obliquely flattened or very 

 broadly rounded; aperture holostomous, broadly and obliquely 

 ovate, angulated at the posterior commissure; outer lip thin and 

 simple, slightly patulous in front; inner lip excavated medially, 

 thin and reflected, adnate to the body wall; columella smooth. 



Dimensions. — Altitude 14.7 mm.; maximum diameter 4.1 mm. 



This species is well characterized by its sharply defined axial costae 

 which are crowded on the early whorls of the spire but become more 

 widely spaced on the later volutions, and further, the species is 

 characterized by fine regular pittings in the interspiral spaces. Both 

 Acirsa corrugata and Acirsa microstriata differ from Acirsa cerithi- 

 formis M. and H^^ in the more elongate and slender outline and the 

 details of the external ornamentation. Acirsa corrugata is smaller 

 than Acirsa microstriata and unlike the latter exhibits a well developed 

 axial sculpture over the entire shell. 



The very elegantly ornamented species Scalaria dense-striata 

 Kaunhowen/'' from the Msestrichtian of western Europe is probably 

 a member of the genus Acirsa and may be compared with Acirsa 

 corrugata. 



Genua HEMIACIRSA de Boury. 

 Hemiacirsa cretacea n. sp. PI. XIX, fig. 3. 



Descri-ption. — Shell fairly large for the group, slender, turrited 

 and conical in outline; spire acuminate; spire of the type slightly 

 curved, possibly an individual characteristic due to three accidents 

 in the life of the animal, each of which resulted in the breaking of 

 the shell (as scars on the type specimen show) on the same side of 

 the spire or possibly a specific character of this many-whorled form; 

 whorls flattened, very closely appressed posteriorly, less tightly 

 coiled toward the aperture; whorls twelve and a half on the imperfect 

 type, at least two have been broken away, volutions increasing 

 gradually in size; protoconch unknown; sculpture dominantly axial, 

 axial costse abruptly elevated and subangular on the crests, somewhat 

 flexuous, costae sixteen in number on the body of the type, regularly 

 spaced, persistent from suture to suture on the whorls of the spire, 

 interaxial spaces concave and a little wider than the costae; spiral 

 sculpture subdued but well defined in the interaxial depressions, 



4^ Meek and Hayden, 1876, U. S. Geol. Survey of the Terr., Vol. IX, p. 339, 

 PI. 32, figs. 10, a, b. 



^5 Kaunhowen, F., 1897, Palceontol Abhandl, Neue Folge, Bd. IV, p. 43, Taf . III. 

 Figs. 3, 4. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



consisting of eleven on the body whorl and about the same number 

 on the whorls of the spire; spiral lines on base of body very faint; 

 suture impressed; base of body nearly flat; angular edge between 

 base and sides of body well rounded; aperture ovate; margin of outer 

 lip broken away; inner lip strongly and smoothly excavated medially; 

 parietal wall washed with a thin glaze of callus; columella smooth. 



Dimensions (apex of individual broken away) . — Altitude 39.4 mm. ; 

 maximum diameter 11.1 mm. 



This species is well characterized by its long, slender, rather large 

 spire, and its flattened base, by its well defined axial costse but 

 obscure spirals. Whether the bend in the spire is an individual or 

 specific character of this many-whorled species cannot be determined 

 without additional material. Only one specimen is known at present 

 but it is of special significance since it is the first evidence of the 

 presence of this genus in the Upper Cretaceous. In Europe a number 

 of species of Hemiacirsa have been reported ranging in age from the 

 Montian^^ up to the recent species now living in the Gulf of Lyons. 

 One species only is known from the Eastern United States. This is 

 Hemiacirsa -peiiaqueata (Conrad) Cossmann,^'' a form originally 

 described as a Turritella by Conrad,'*^ later referred to the genus 

 Trachyrhynchus Morch by Martin^'-* and finally to the genus 

 Hemiacirsa by Cossmann in 1912. 



Family PYRAMIDELLID^. 



Genus CREONELLA n. gen. 



Etymology: A diminutive of Creon, king of Corinth. 



Type: Creonella triplicata n. sp. 



Shell small and smooth, in outline a simple, slender cone; whorls 

 closely appressed and increasing in size slowly; whorls of spire 

 generally flat and narrow ; protoconch very small and heterostrophous 

 with only two volutions; sculpture absent except for microscopic 

 incremental lines in the glaze of the external surface; suture sharply 

 impressed; body well rounded in front; aperture ovate; outer lip thin 

 and simple, inner surface of the outer wall of the l^ody strongly 

 Urate; inner lip excavated medially; columella marked by two plaits, 

 the posterior of which is the stronger; just behind the strong colu- 



« Cossmann, M., 1912, Ess. de Pal. Comp., livr. IX, pp. 97, 98. 



" Ibid.,, p. 97. 



48 Turritella perlaqueala Conrad, 1841, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phjla., Vol. I, 

 p. 32. 



"*" Trachyrhynchus pcrlaxjueatus Martin, 1904, Miocene Text, Md. Geol. Survey, 

 p. 239, PI. LVII, fig. 9. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 308 



mellar plait on the body is another plait similar to a columellar fold; 

 parietal wall glazed with callus; umbilicus imperforate. 



This genus is well characterized by three conspicuous folds on the 

 inner lip. The most posterior of these folds is situated on the body 

 of the preceding whorl and the other two occur on the columella. 

 The posterior one of the columellar plaits is the stronger and on 

 either side of it there is a deep columellar sulcus. The genus is 

 probably near Pyramidella, but the umbilicus of that genus is typi- 

 cally imperforate. The genus Creonella is proposed for a group 

 represented by two species from Coon Creek which are unlike any 

 known species of this family in either the Upper Cretaceous or the 

 early Tertiary. A representative of the genus Oheliscus^^ which 

 occurs at Coon Creek and also in the Monmouth of New Jersey, has 

 a single columellar plait, otherwise, in simple, slender, conical forms 

 of the inornate shells, the two groups resemble each other very much. 



Creonella triplicata n. sp. PI. XIX, fig. 8. 



Description. — Shell small and slender, in outline a very sharp cone; 

 spire acuminate, angle of spire constant whorls closely appressed, 

 numerous and narrow, seven in the imperfect type; probably almost 

 twice as many in a perfect form; sculpture absent except for pro- 

 tractive incrementals of irregular strength and spacing that scar 

 the glazed external surface; suture distinctly impressed; body very 

 abruptly constricted in front of the periphery; peripheral angle well 

 rounded; aperture narrow, outer lip broken away; inner surface of 

 labrum corrugated within, with about half a dozen prominent lirse, 

 subequal, closely and evenly spaced ; columella marked by two strong 

 transverse folds behind which and on the body is another fold, the 

 posterior of the columellar plaits is the strongest of these three 

 plaits, on either side of the strong columellar fold are two deep spiral 

 sulci around the columella. 



Dimensions (imperfect individual). — Altitude 14.4 mm.; maximum 

 diameter 3.3 mm. 



This species is well characterized by its narrow, numerous whorls 

 and its very sharp, strongly impressed suture. The species is known 

 from only two specimens neither of which is perfect, but sufficiently 

 preserved to show all characteristic features. 



••" 0?>(/isc«s canellm Whitfield, 1892, Mo7i. U. S. Geol. Surveij, Vol. XVIII' 

 p. 151, PL 19, fig. 1. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Explanation of Plates XVII-XIX. 



Plate XVII. — Figs. 1, 2. Conorbis mcnairyensis n. sp. 



1. Front view. x-1. 



2. Rear view. .x4. 



Figs. 3, 4. Hyllus coloratus n. gen. et sp. 



3. Front view. Nat. size. 



4. Rear view of another individual. Nat. size. 

 Figs. 5, 6. Hyllus callilaleris n. gen. et sp. 



5. Front view. Nat. size. 



6. Rear view. Nat. size. 



Fig. 7, 8. Astandes densatus n. gen. et sp. 



7. Front view. x3. 



8. Rear view. x3. 



Figs. 9, 10. Paramorea lirata n. gen. et sp. 



9. Front view. x4. 



10. Rear view. x4. 



Figs. 11, 12. Falsifusus mesozoicus n. sp. 



11. Front view. x3. 



12. Rear view. x3. 



Plate XVIII. — Figs. 1, 2. Scobina bicarinata n. gen. et sp. 



1. Rear view. x2. 



2. Front view. x2. 



Figs. 3, 4. Boltenella excellens n. gen. et sp. 



3. Front view. x2. 



4. Rear view. x2. 



Figs. 5, 6. Lirosoma cretacea n. sp. 



5. Front view. x2. 



6. Front view of a smaller individual. x2. 

 Fig. 7. Ecphora proquadricostata n. sp. 



Front view. x3. 

 Fig. 8. Aciisa microstriata n. sp. 



Front view. x2. 

 Fig. 9. Acirsa corrugala n. sp. 



Front view. x3. 

 Plate XIX. — Figs. 1, 2. Seminola solida n. gen. et sp. 



1. Front view. x3. 



2. Rear view. x3. 



Fig. 3. Hemiacirsa cretacea n. sp. 



Front view. x2. 

 Figs. 4,"5. Nudivagus simplicus n. gen. et sp. 



4. Front view. Nat. size. 



5. Front view of a larger individual. Nat. size. 

 Figs. 6, 7. Seminola crassa n. gen. et sp. 



6. Front view. xl|. 



7. Rear view. xl|. 



Fig. 8. Creonella triplicata n. gen. et sp. 

 Fi'ont view. x2. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XIV. 



PILSBRY: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII. 



Fief. l-(ia X 2: 7-11 X 3M- 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XV. 



PILSBRY: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XVI. 



HEBARD: DERMAPTEROLOGICAL NOTES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XVII. 



/ -^ 



9 



r 



% 





:*^ 



"N^ 



10 



BRUCE WADE: CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA OF TENNESSEE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XVIII. 



BRUCE WADE: CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA OF TENNESSEE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XIX. 



BRUCE WADE: CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA OF TENNESSEE. 





I 



1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



COLPICHTHYS, THYRINOPS. AND AUSTROMENIDIA, 

 New Genera of Atherinoid Fishes from the New World. 



BY CARL L. HUBBS. 

 COLPICHTHYS new genus. 



Genotype. — Atherinops regis Jenkins and Evermann (Gulf of 

 California) . 



Colpichthys regis is related to the species of Atherinops, with which 

 it has heretofore been considered congeneric. But the Gulf species 

 differs in so many ways from the typical species from the outer 

 coasts of Lower California, and from California and Oregon, that a 

 new genus may be erected for its sole reception. 



Compared with Atherinops, Colpichthys may be distinguished as 

 follows. The head is depressed, although the body is deeper and 

 more strongly compressed than in Atherinops. The mouth is sub- 

 inferior, being on a level with the lower margin of the eye; the upper 

 lip is thickened. The uniserial teeth are Y-shaped, but the inner 

 fork is usually much the shorter. The gill-rakers, 16 to 18 in number 

 along the lower limb of the outer arch, are strongly compressed, 

 curved, serrate on their inner margins, and relatively short, being 

 about one-fourth as long as the eye. In typical Atherinops the gill- 

 rakers are rather more numerous, 20 to 25, and they are slender, 

 terete, straight, nearly smooth, and about two-fifths as long as the 

 eye. 



The scales of Colpichthys differ markedly from those of Atheriiiops, 

 although constructed on a similar plan. The posterior or exposed 

 field of the scale is marked outward from the focus to the first annulus 

 or seasonal ring by circuli similar to those of the anterior field, but 

 beyond this mark the circuli assume a sharply and irregularly undu- 

 late course paralleling the posterior margin of the scale. In 

 Atherinops proper {A. affinis) the circuli of the po.sterior field through- 

 out maintain a nearly even course, and are all greath" crowded, while 

 in Colpichthys only those in the annuli or year checks are closely 

 approximated. In Colpichthys there are about six basal radii within 

 the first annulus, beyond which the number is abruptly decreased. 

 In Atherinops, on the other hand, the radii are often absent, but on 

 some scales 1, 2, or even 3, are in' evidence; and these radii are not 



22 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oot.-NoV., 



modified at the first annulus. In Colpichthys further, the scales 

 are rather thicker and larger than in Atherinops, the number of trans- 

 verse series 47 to 51, instead of 52 to 72. 

 (Colpichthys, a fish of the bay or gulf.) 



THYRINOPS new genus. 



Genotype. — Atherinichthys pachylepis Giinther, 1864 ( = Menidia 

 pachijlepis Jordan and Evermann 1896 = Thyrina pachylepis 

 Jordan and Evermann 1898, and Regan 1907 = Kirtlandia pachy- 

 lepis Gilbert and Starks 1904). 



Thyrinops pachylepis, the only species of the genus, occupies a 

 position almost exactly intermediate between Kirtlandia and Athe- 

 rinella, agreeing with both of these genera as well as with Menidia, 

 etc., in the posterior position of the anal fin, which is not advanced 

 as in Thyrina and Eury stole. Thyrina closely resembles Thyrinops, 

 and is probably a fresh-water derivative from some such form. 

 This conclusion is strengthened by the fact that some species of 

 Thyrina, especially T. sardina, have the scales on the sides more or 

 less laciniate. 



Thyrinops may be diagnosed as follows: form moderately slender, 

 contracted ventrally as in Thyrina. Head rather pointed; gape 

 strongly arched downward posteriorly; jaws forming a semicircular 

 curve when viewed from above; maxillary not reaching to below 

 front of orbit. Teeth in villiform bands, rather wide in the upper 

 jaw, but narrow in the lower; outer series of premaxillary teeth 

 spaced and a little enlarged; entire palate toothless. Scales thick- 

 ened, rather deeper than long; the free margin rounded, but the 

 dorsal, ventral, and basal margins nearly straight; circuli absent 

 from the apical field, which is crossed by numerous fine, subparallel 

 radii, between which the scale is produced so as to form a border 

 more finely laciniate than in Membras (Kirtlandia) ; basal field usually 

 crossed by a line or two along which the circuli are curved inward; 

 basal radii usually absent on the trunk scales, or only a few shallow 

 ones developed, whereas on the tail the scales are deeply sculptured 

 with well developed radii ;^ The number of scales is about 40 in 

 lateral series. Fin rays: dorsal, IV or V-I, 6 to 8; anal I, 20 to 23. 

 Anal base decidedly longer than head, as in Thyrina; soft dorsal and 

 anal fins scaleless, falcate in outline; origin of spinous dorsal well 

 behind that of the anal, about an orbital length separating the two 



1 This variation has been entii'ely too much neglected in recent studies of fish 

 scales, not so much in this family as in other groups. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



verticals; pectorals falcate and elongate, reaching nearly to or even 

 beyond, the tips of the pelvic fins. 



Two specimens of T. pachylepis are at hand; they were collected 

 January 5, 1908, by Anastasio Alfaro, in the Estero at Tivives near 

 Puntarenas in Costa Rica. Lengths to base of caudal, 88 and 113 

 mm. The so-called annuli or seasonal rings on the scales are well 

 developed, and resemble those of California Atherinids; the scales 

 .show respectively 2 and 3 of these rings, probably indicating the 

 age in years of the two fishes. Dorsal rays, IV-I, 7 (both specimens) ; 

 anal, I, 20 and I, 21; pectorals reaching a little past tips of pelvics, 

 their length being contained 3.4 and 3.6 times in the total. Scales 

 40-9 and 42-9. 



AUSTROMENIDIA new genus. 



Athcnnichlhys (in part) Giinther, Cat. 3, p. 402 (not Atherinichthys Bleeker = 



Ckirostoma Swainson). 

 Basilichthys of authors (not of Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, 1854, 



p. 198, microlepidotus = regia, hence Basilichthys = Gastroplerns Cope = 



Pisciregia Abbott; see Thompson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, 1916, 



pp. 4G3-466). 



Genotype. — Basilichthys regillus Abbott. 



Austromenidia is used to replace Basilichthys of authors and not of 

 Girard, whose original type belongs to the genus later called Gas- 

 tropterus and Pisciregia. 



The fishes of this genus, referable to several species, inhabit both 

 coasts of southern South America. They are of comparatively 

 large size, and are of commercial importance. The scales are notably 

 small, numbering from 67 to over 100 in lateral series. Both jaws 

 are strong and arched downward posteriorly; the premaxillary is 

 dilated distally. The teeth are disposed in narrow l^ands along the 

 jaws, and are usually absent from the vomer, although a few teeth 

 or even a small patch, may be present on that bone. The first dorsal 

 fin begins well before the anal, at a point about midway between base 

 of snout and base of caudal. 



It will be noted from the foregoing diagnosis that Austromenidia 

 resembles Menidia very closely, differing from it in the larger size, 

 the stronger jaws, and the much finer scales. 



The species of Chirostoma, confined to the fauna of the Lerma 

 River System in Mexico, form a large series with diverse extremes. 

 The scales are usually larger (37 to 75)^ than in Austromenidia; the 



2 Regan's extreme count for diazi; the number probably includes the scales 

 on the base of the caudal fin.. The scales are usually larger in Chirostoma. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.-NoV., 



lower jaw stronger, projecting beyond the upper, at least at the 

 symphysis,^ and forcing the gape into an oblique direction. 



Species of " Atherijiichthys" have been recorded by Gtinther and 

 others from Australia and Tasmania, but they cannot be congeneric 

 with any New World genera.^ The same is true of Atherinichthys 

 nouhuysi Weber^ from New Guinea. The original type of Athe- 

 rinichthys is identical with that of Chirostoma an earlier name. 



Two genera related to Ausiromenidia, Odontesthes and Kronia, 

 have been described from the east coast of South America. 



Odontesthes Evermann and KendalP has a peculiarly pikelike 

 form, produced by the strength of the jaws, and by the positions of 

 the dorsal and anal fins, which are inserted much farther back than 

 in Ausiromenidia; the spinous dorsal originates nearly opposite the 

 anal. The scales are of medium size (about 50 to 70 transverse 

 series). The teeth on the jaws are in two series, and there are 2 or 3 

 groups of vomerine teeth. Kronia, recently described by Ribeiro,^ 

 is said to have 3 linear groups of vomerine teeth; large sublaciniate 

 scales (in 54 series); and the dorsal origin directly over the anus. 

 Perhaps Kronia is synonymous with Odontesthes, but it is not the 

 same as Ausiromenidia.^ 



' ^ The species have all been reexamined as regards this character; the single 

 exception is C. promelas, in which the upper jaw has secondarily become hooked 

 over the lower, somewhat as in the breeding male of Oncorhynchus. 

 * See McCuUoch, Proc. Rov. Soc. Queensland, 24, 1912, p. 49. 



5 Notes Leyden Mus., 32, 1910, p. 229. 



6 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 31, 1906, p. 94. 



' Arch. Mus. Nat. Rio de Janeiro, 17, 1915 (Fauna Brasiliensis, Peixes, Trema- 

 tolepides p. 9). 



^ Aiheriua argentinensis Cuvier and Valenciennes (Hist. Nat. Poiss., 10, 1S35, 

 p. 472) seems to be referable to Odonicsthes. It is described as having scales in 

 ten longitudinal series, they being smaller than in Menidia brasiliensis but larger 

 than in Ausiromenidia laliclavia; and as having the spinous dorsal opposite the 

 anus. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



309 



MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII. IV-VII. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Since the publication of the first paper of this series,' the writer 

 has been able to study part of the important collection of Hawaiian 

 marine shells made by Professor Wm. Alanson Bryan and Airs. 

 Bryan, which they had brought to the Academy for identification. 

 It is very rich in the shells of Kauai, Oahu and Molokai, also several 

 of the islets of the northwestern group as far as Laysan. The present 

 paper treats also of shells collected by Mr. D. Thaanum, minutise 

 picked out of shell-sand sent many years ago by Mr. Frederick 

 Stearns, and material collected by the author. 



IV. EULIMID^. 

 Melanella bryani n. sp. Fig. l. 



Laysan Island, Wm. Alanson Bryan, 1902. Type No. 117595, 

 A. N. S. P., paratypes in Bryan collection. 



The shell is obliquely conic, the upper half rather strongly curved 

 to the right and backward; smooth, white; the later whorls having 



Fig. 1. — Melanella bryani. 



Fig. 2. — Melanella mimus. 



a broad gray border below the suture, which is somewhat impressed. 

 A single series of well impressed linear varices runs up the right side, 

 receding to a dorsal position in the upper whorls. The whorls are 

 slightly convex. The aperture is small, subvertical. The columella 



^ Marine Mollusks of Hawaii, I-III, these Proceedings, pp. 207-230, August, 



1917. 




310 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



is deeply concave; parietal wall rather heavily calloused. The outer 

 lip, in profile view, is almost straight, not arching forward. 

 Length 10, diam. 5, length of aperture with peristome 3 mm. 



Melanella mimus n. sp. Fig. 2. 



Kailua, Oahu, W. A. Bryan. Type No. 117593, A. N. S. P., 

 paratypes in Bryan coll. 



The shell is rather slender, the spire having a distinct double 

 curvature; smooth, white; the suture linear, not impressed. A 

 series of linear varices runs up the right side, spirally receding to the 

 dorsal side as usual. The whorls are almost flat, the last being very 

 obtusely subangular. The aperture is ovate; columella moderately 

 concave, parietal callous thin. The outer lip arches strongly forward. 



Length 5.3, diam. 2, length of aperture 1.5 mm. 

 Melanella kanaka n. sp, Fig. 3. 



Kailua, Oahu, W. A. Bryan. Type No. 117594, A. N. S. P., 

 paratype in Bryan coll. 



The shell is very small, conic, attenuated and recurved in the 

 upper third; smooth, whitish, the suture linear, superficial, broadly 

 gray margined below, the margin defined by a whitish line. A 

 continuous series of impressed, linear varices runs up the right side, 

 receding but little upward. The whorls of the spire are scarcely 



I'lg. 3. — Melanella kanaka. 



convex, the last being moderately convex. The aperture is small, 

 subovate, the inner margin much less curved than the outer. The 

 outer lip arches very strongh' forward, as seen in profile. 



Length 4.2, diam. 1.62, lenglh of aperture 1.45 mm.; about 10 

 whorls. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



311 



E.. infiexa Pse., from the Paumotus, is similar in sha]: but far 

 larger. 



A form from Kahala, Oahu (right fig.), collected by ]\_-s. A. F. 

 Letson, differs by being a little more conic, the last whorl mce ample 

 in the peripheral region. Leng^th 4, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Melanella ima n. sp. Fig. 4. 



Pamnalu, Oahu, W. A. and E. L. Bryan. Type No. 11592, A. 

 N. S. P., paratypes in Bi\van coll. 



The shell is small, slender, the upper half curving strongl to the 

 right; smooth, whitish, the linear suture rather narrowly brdered 

 with gray. The whorls are very slightly convex. The sries of 

 linear varices on the right side recedes to the dorsal side above. 



A 



Fig. 4. — Melanella ima. 



The aperture is shaped as in M. kanaka, and as in that specie the 

 outer lip arches forward strongly. 



Length 4.3, diam. 1.35, length of aperture 1.05 mm. 



More slender than M. kanaka, and curved for a greater prt of 

 its length. The shape of the last whorl distinguishes it froi .1/. 

 mimus. 

 Melanella letsonae n. sp. Fig. 5. 



Mokapu Point, Oahu. Type No. 117633, A. N. S. P., collet ed 

 by Mrs. A. F. Letson. Also in Bryan collection. 



The shell is very slender, white, moderately curved to the ight, 

 somewhat solid. There is a row of varix-lines on the right ide, 

 becoming dorsal in the upper part of the spire. The whorl^a^e 

 nearly flat, the suture superficial having a broad gray border b(ow. 

 Last whorl is obtusely subangular above the middle, the base tapeing, 




312 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



slightly (fcnvex. The aperture is small, ovate. The outer lip curves 

 forward fery strongly in the middle. 



Lengtl 4.5, diam. 1.6, length of aperture 1.2 mm.; 10 whorls. 



Melanellalunata n, sp. Fig. 6. 



Mokii Point, Oahu. Type No. 117634, A. N. S. P., collected by 

 Mrs. Aw. Let son. 



The nell is rather slender, somewhat solid, white, very strongly 

 curved o the right and a little backward above. The whorls are 

 nearly ftat, and marked with varix-lines on the right, becoming 

 dorsal bove. Suture superficial, distinctly but shortly descending 

 to eaclvarix-line and to the aperture, broadly bordered below with 

 gray. The aperture is small, ovate. The outer lip moderately, 

 archedforward in the middle. 



B 



Peas 



'ig. 5. — Melanella letsonce. 



Fig. &.— Melanella lunata. 



Legth 6.6, diam. 2.3, length of aperture 1.75 mm.; 10 whorls 

 remaning, the apex being imperfect. 



its strong curvature this species resembles Subularia distorta 

 , but there is no ridge or keel on the left side of the base, as 



in tb species of Subularia. 



Subuiria delicata n. sp. 



IV^)kapu Point, Oahu. Type No. 117632, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by Its. A. F. Letson. 



Te shell resembles S. metcalfei, but differs by being smaller and 

 deciedly more slender. It is thin, pellucid, showing the internal 

 colum and partitions through the shell. The spire is straight. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



313 



whorls slightly convex, having varix-lines on both sides, the last 

 whorl having a short keel below, characteristic of the genus. 



Length 4.3, diam. 1.3, length of aperture 1.4 mm.; 9 whorls. 



This species will be figured in connection with material on Subularia 

 in the next paper of this series. 



V. THE PYRAMIDELLIDiE. 



Further species of this family are to follow when illustrations can 

 be prepared. 

 Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) obleotamentum n. ^p. Fig. 8. 



Haleiwa. Oahu. Type Xo. 116543, A. N. S. P., coll. ])y H. A. 

 Pilsbr} , 1913. Also Haena, Kauai, W. A. and E. L. Bryan. 



The shell is turrited, diameter contained slightly less than three 

 times in the length. Nuclear shell of at least two whorls, tilted 

 towards its spire which is low and half immersed. First post-nuclear 

 whorl having vertical ribs, the rest moderately convex, with sculpture 



is 



H 



^ 

 s 





■'•^ f 



Fig. 7. — Turbonilla kauaiensis. 



Fig. 8. — Turhonilla obledamentum. 



of rather large, rounded, protractive ribs, about 17 on the last whorl, 

 parted by intervals slightly wider than the ribs. On the last Avhorl 

 the concave intervals stop abruptly at the periphery; yet very slight 

 continuations of the ribs, or part of them, are visible on the base. 

 The suture is deeply impressed, almost channelled. The aperture 

 is ovate, the columella thick, barely perceptibly sinuous, almost 

 straight. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Length 2.45, cliam. 0.85, length of aperture 0.6 mm.; 6| post- 

 nuclear whorls. 

 Turboniila (Chemnitzia) kahoolawensis n, sp. 



North shore of Kahoolawe. Type No. 116179, A. N. S. P., coll. 

 by Pilsbry, 1913. 



The shell is similar to T. oblectamentum except in the following 

 characters. It is relatively narrower. The ribs are similar but 

 more numerous, about 30 on the last whorl, and as wide as the 

 intervals. The suture is very deeply impressed, a little more chan- 

 nelled than in the other species. The nuclear whorls are too much 

 worn to show the shape well. The lateral outlines of the spire are 

 distinctly convex. 



Length 3, diam. 0.85 mm.; 7| post-nuclear whorls. 



Turboniila (Turboniila) kauaiensis n. sp. Fig. 7. 



Haena, Kauai. Type No. 117626, A. N. S. P., coll. by W. A. and 

 E. L. Bryan; paratype in Bryan coll. 



The shell is slender, the diameter contained about 3^ times in the 

 length, nuclear whorl elevated, smooth. Subsequent whorls are 

 slightly convex, sculptured with smooth, straight, rounded vertical 

 ribs, equal to their equally smooth intervals, and 24 in numl^er on 

 the penult whorl. On the last w^iorl the ribs extend upon the base, 

 but weaken there. Aperture is rhombic, the columella stout, very 

 weakly sinuous. 



Length 2.75, diam. 0.8, aperture 0.6 mm. ; 7h post-nuclear whorls. 



This very minute species differs from T. kahoolawensis by the 

 simple suture, the extension of the vertical ribs upon the base, and 

 the nearly straight outlines of the spire. 

 Turboniila (Chemnitzia) tbaanumi Pils. and Van. 



1908. Turboniila {Chemnitzia) thaanumi P. and V., Nautilus, vol. 22, 

 p. 58, fig. 3. 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. 



This minute shell differs from the preceding by the abrupt termina- 

 tion of the intercostal valleys on the last whorl. 

 Turboniila (Evaletta) elizabethae n. sp, Fig5. 9, 9o. 



Waianae, Oahu. Type and paratypes No. 117596, A. N.' S. P., 

 coll. by W. A. and E. L. Bryan; paratypes in Bryan coll. Also 

 from Waikiki beach (Stearns), Honolulu Harbor, Paumalu, Mokapu 

 Point (Bryan), and Kahala (Mrs. Letson), Oahu. Haena and 

 Hanalei River, Kauai (Bryan), Kailua, Kona coast of Hawaii 

 (Bryan), Laysan Island (Bryan). 



The shell is subulate, the upper third or half pink, the rest white. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



315 



The initial whorl is low, with iiiturned tip, following whorls are 

 convex, regularly increasing, very densely microscopically striate 

 spirally. The suture is narrowly channelled. The slopes of the 

 spire are nearly straight. The aperture is ovate, oblique. The 

 columella bears a small fold, visible in oblique view in the mouth, 

 but so far immersed that it is not seen in direct front view. 



Length 6.7, diam 1.65, length of aperture 1.65 mm.; 10 whorls 

 (type). 



Length 7.6, diam. 2, length of aperture 1.7 mm. (largest specimen 

 seen) . 



Fig. 9. — Turbonilla dizabelhcE. 9a. — A young speci- 

 men from Honolulu, length 2.8 mm. 



Fig. 10. — Turbonilla laij- 

 sanensis. 



This pretty, delicately colored shell is named for Mrs. W. A. Bryan. 

 The nuclear whorl is so far immersed that it resembles that of Odos- 

 tomia. By Dr. Bartsch's kej^, it runs nearest to the subgenus Care- 

 Jiopsis MOrch; but that differs by the characters of the nuclear shell. 

 T. eUzabethce is here made the type of a new subgenus to be called 

 Evaletta, characterized by the low, inturned nuclear whorl and the 

 evenly convex whorls, microscopically striate spirally. The length- 

 ened form and numerous whorls separate it from Odostomia, wherein 

 it approaches the subgenus Evalina somewhat. 



Turbonilla (Evaletta) laysanensis n. sp. Fig. 10. 



Laysan Island. Type No. 117627, A. N. S. P., collected by W. 

 A. Bryan. 



Shell similar in color and shape of the whorls to T. elizahethce, but 

 of decidedly broader form, and of fewer whorls in a shell of greater 

 length. The type has lost the nuclear whorl. 



Length 8.7, diam. 2.2 mm.; 8 post-nuclear whorls. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Turbonilla (Lancella) varicosa (A- Ad.)- Pi- XXII, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



1853. Chemnitzia varicosa A. Ad., P. Z. S., p. 181, PI. 20, fig. 15. 

 1860. ? Turbonilla decussata Pease, P. Z. S., p. 438. 



Off Honolulu in 6-8 fathoms, dredged by Mr. D. B. Kuhns. Also 

 in the Thaanum-Kuhns collection. Some young specimens were 

 taken at Haena, Kauai, Iw Prof, and Mrs. Bryan. 



The shell is slender, turrited, with long, attenuate spire, cinnamon 

 •colored, or nearly white with cinnamon bands. Nuclear shell of one 

 smooth elevated whorl, the spire exposed, low. Post-nuclear whorls 

 are moderately convex, with sculpture of close, rounded, axial ribs, 

 their intervals deep and equal to the ribs on the upper whorls, about 

 half as wide as the ribs on the last four whorls. There are also 

 swollen white varices as wide as three to five ribs, at irregular intervals, 

 more numerous in the lower whorls; in all 8 in the specimen shown 

 in fig. 5. The axial ribs and varices are crossed by rather strong 

 spiral cords, about 10 between sutures, the fourth from above being 

 a little larger than the others. The last whorl is rounded periph- 

 erally and has a short, convex base. The aperture is trapezoidal, 

 angular at the base of the columella. Columella vertical, with a 

 sharp, very oblique spiral fold at the base. Parietal callous scarcely 

 noticeable. 



Length 22, diam. 4.7, length of aperture 4.2 mm.; 15 post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Chemnitzia varicosa was described from the ''Eastern Seas." 

 The description and figure agree well with Hawaiian specimens. 



I have not seen T. cornelliana Newc, from Honolulu. 



The subgenus Lancella Dall and Bartsch was founded by W. H. 

 Pease (under the preoccupied name Lancea) for large, varicose 

 Turbonillas having conspicuous vertical and spiral sculpture, a 

 prominent nucleus tilted towards its very low spire, and a small 

 spiral fold emerging near the base of the columella. In this last 

 feature it differs from all other Turbonillas, and perhaps the group 

 should be ranked as a genus. 



Besides the species described or mentioned below, the following 

 belong here: T. elongata Pease (name preoc, = T. peasei D. and 

 B.), the genotype, from Paumotus. T. bella D. and B., of Japan. 

 Also, apparently T. cornelliana Newc, from Honolulu, and possibly 

 T. grandis {Chemnitzia grandis) Ads. and Rve., neither of w^hich 

 I have seen. 

 Turbonilla (Lancella) vitiensis n, sp. PI. XXII, fig. 4. 



The shell is turrited, white; embryonic whorl on edge but leaning 

 towards its spire, which is low. Subsequent whorls with sculpture 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



of low, rounded vertical ribs, somewhat unequal, and parted by 

 narrow furrows; there are about 24 such ribs on the penult whorl; 

 also very few swollen varices, in the type three: on the left side of 

 the last whorl, on the third, and on the sixth whorls above the last. 

 Over ribs, intervals and varices there are seven low spiral cords, 

 much wider than their intervals, on each whorl to the last, which 

 has 17, the lower cords being narrower there. The aperture is 

 trapezoidal; outer lip simple; columella straight, vertical, having a 

 small, steeplj^ ascending spiral fold near the base. It joins Avith the 

 basal margin in a rather small curve, but there is no angle at the 

 junction. 



Length 15.5, diam. 4 mm.; aperture 3.3 mm. long; 13 post- 

 embryonic whorls. 



Viti Islands. Type and 2 other specimens are No. 20046, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by A. J. Garrett. 



Several lots sent by Mr. Garrett at different times show this to be 

 rather constant in size and other characters. There are usually two 

 distinct and often one small varix. The name vitiensis was used on 

 one of Garrett's labels, but I cannot find that he published it. 

 Turbonilla vitiensis clavus n. subsp. PL XXII, fig. .3. 



The shell is similar to T. vitiensis except that it is more slender; 

 penult whorl with 20 vertical ribs. 



Length 12.5, diam. 2.9 mm.; length of aperture 2.5 mm.; 13 post- 

 embryonic whorls. 



Viti Islands. Type No. 117597, A. N. S. P., collected ])y A. J. 

 Garrett. 

 Odostomia (Odostomella) patrioia n. sp- Fig, ii. 



Waikiki beach, near Honolulu. Type No. 93944, A. N. S. P., 

 collected by Frederick Stearns. 



The shell is oblong, solid, white, the last whorl encircled with 

 three cinnamon bands, two of which are visible on the penult and 

 one on the preceding whorl. The nuclear whorl is rather well 

 elevated, smooth. Subsequent whorls have rounded axial ribs as 

 wide as their intervals, about 20 on the last whorl, where they con- 

 tinue over the base, though weaker below. Lender a high power 

 some weak spiral striation is visible on the base. The suture is 

 narrow and rather deeply impressed. The aperture is rather nar- 

 rowly ovate, oblique. Columellar fold small. 



Length 1.6, diam. 0.7, length of aperture 0.55 mm.; 4| whorls. 



This species is smaller than 0. doliolum, with narrower ribs, l>ut 

 much the same coloring. 




318 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



There is a similar pink form with roseate apical whorl, which 

 may be called var. rosa, and another form, similarly colored, with 

 only about 16 larger ribs on the last whorl and having the nuclear 

 whorl larger; it may be named var. rhodocephala. 



Fig. 11. — Odostomia patricia. 



Fig. 12. — Odostomia syrtites. 



Odostomia (Chrysallida) stearnsiella n. sp. Fig. n. 



Waikiki beach, near Honolulu, Oahu. Type No. 93931, A. N. 

 S. P., collected by Frederick Stearns. 



The shell is ovate-conic, solid, white. Nuclear whorl regular, 

 well raised, the apex turned in; two or three following whorls have 

 weak axial folds. All of the post-nuclear whorls have narrow spiral 

 furrows; on the last whorl there are four above the periphery, the 

 upper one widest, and after a peripheral smooth zone the base has 

 about 6 weak spiral cords. The aperture is ovate, the columellar 

 fold strong. 



Length 3.5, diam. 1.4, length of aperture 1.3 mm.; 5| post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



Odostomia (Miralda) syrtites n. sp. Fig. 12. 



Waikiki beach, Oahu. Type No. 93934, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is ovate-conic, white. Nuclear whorl smooth, somewhat 

 elevated, the apex depressed. Following wliorls of the spire having 

 a broad raised zone, indistinctly bipartite, bearing somewhat oblique 

 ribs; this is followed by a spiral sulcus and a stout smooth spiral 

 ridge. On the last whorl the depression dividing the upper zone is 

 deeper; there are about 26 oblique ribs. From the periphery down 

 there are about seven spiral ridges, the last three quite weak. The 

 aperture is ovate, oblique. Columellar fold strong, rather thick. 



Length 1.7, diam. 0.95, length of aperture 0.65 mm. 4| whorls 

 in all. 



There are more basal keels than in 0. scopulorimi Watson, and the 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



319 



shell is broader. Though larger, it has a whorl less than Watson's 

 species. 



Odostomia (Miralda) scopulorum Watson. Fig. 13. 



Odosiomia scopulorum Watson, Challenger Rep., Gastrop., p. 485, PI. 31, fig. 5. 



Reefs off Honolulu, 4 fathoms (Challenger). Hilo, Hawaii (D. 

 Thaanum) . 



The original figures are copied. The specimen measures 1.2 mm. 

 long, 0.5 wide, having 5 whorls. There is " a strong, oblique, deep-set 

 tooth about the middle" of the inner lip. 





a. 



1 



Fig. 13. — Odostomia scopulonim, after Watson. Shell X 35 and apex X 60. 



Mr. Thaanum's specimens agree well with the type description 

 and figures. 

 Odostomia (Miralda) paulbartschi n. sp. Fig, 1.5. 



North shore of Kahoolawe. Type No. 116163, A. N. S. P., coll. 

 by Pilsbry, 1913. Also beach east of Honolulu, No. 93940. 



The shell is tapering-oblong, white. The nuclear whorl is smooth, 

 convex, low, with depressed tip. Following whorls of the spire 

 have two large, rounded spiral ridges, bearing slightly oblique 

 nodes which are weakly connected across the median depression; 

 a narrow smooth cord revolving immediately above the suture. 

 On the last whorl the post-sutural cord continues at the periphery, 

 and there are three spiral cords on the base. The aperture is some- 

 what oblique. Outer lip scalloped. The columella is narrow, 

 terminating above in a small fold. 



Length 2.3, diam. 0.95, length of aperture 0.8 mm.; a trifle over 

 6 whorls. 



A single perfect example of this Miralda was found in beach debris 

 on Kahoolawe, and tw^o from near Honolulu. It is obviously dis- 

 tinct from 0. scopulorum Watson, the only related species described 

 from the islands. 




320 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Odostomia (Miralda Vi pupu n. sp. Fig. 16. 



Waikiki beach, near Honolulu, Oahu. Type Xo. 93943, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is oblong-conic, white, solid. Nuclear whorl is rounded, 

 rather elevated, smooth. Subseciuent whorls of the spire are sculp- 

 tured with three smooth, subequal, strongly raised spiral keels, 

 their summits rounded. The intervals are equal to the keels in 

 width, and have sculpture of spaced axial threads. On the last 

 whorl there are six spirals, the anterior two very low. The aperture 

 is ovate, oblique. Columellar fold is rather strong. 



Length 2.4, diam. 1.05, length of aperture 0.75 mm.; 5^ whorls. 



Fig. 1-4. — Odostomia 

 ■ stearnsiella. 



Fig. 1". — Odostomia 

 paidbartschi. 



Fig. 16. — Odostomia 

 pupu. 



Odostomia fEvalinaj waikikiensis n. sp. Fig. 17. 



Waikiki, Oahu. Type No. 117624, coll. by Pilsbry, 1913. 



The shell is oblong-conic, white. Nuclear whorls subglobose, 

 uptilted, half immersed. The next two whorls appear to be smooth 

 except for some fine vertical .striation. Last three whorls have 

 sculpture of numerous very Ioav axial folds crossed by rather coarse 

 impressed lines, of which there are 15 on the penult whorl. On the 

 last whorl the axial folds Aveaken as they approach the periphery; 

 and do not pass upon the base. The whorls are rather convex, the 

 suture deeply impressed. The aperture is ovate. There is a small, 

 immersed columellar fold, visible in an oblique view, but not in front. 



Length 2.8, diam. 1 mm., length of aperture 0.8 mm.; 5| post- 

 nuclear whorls. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



321 



Odostomia (Evalinai haleiwensis n. sp. Fig. 19, 



Haleiwa, Oahu. Type and a smaller specimen No. 116546, A. 

 N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry, 1913. Paumalu, coll. by Mrs. A. F. 

 Letson. 



The shell is imperforate, oblong. The nuclear whorls are de- 

 pressed. Axial sculpture consists of numerous extremely low 

 plications, which become still weaker on the last whorl. These are 

 crossed by fine, impressed spiral lines, of which there are about 10 

 on the penult whorl. The whorls are rather convex, parted by a 

 deeply impressed almost channelled suture. Aperture is ovate. 

 Columellar fold low but distinct, scarcely visible in a direct front 

 view. 



Length 3, diam. 1.05, length of aperture 1 mm.; 5f whorls. 



It is closely related to 0. gracilis Pse., yet much smaller in all its 

 parts, less densely striate spirally, and less attenuated near the 

 summit. 



Odostomia (Evalina> gracilis Pease. Fig. is. 



Odostomia gracilis Pease, Amer. Jom-. of Conch. Vol. Ill, p. 292, PI. 24, fig. 20 

 (Hawaii). 



Pease confused two species under gracilis. His description was 



evidently framed to cover both; but the figure was drawn (very 



badly) from the stouter shell, and I have selected this as the type 

 (fig. 18). It is No. 19967, A. N. S. P. 



The surface is inconspicuously and very weakly plicate, and 

 densely striate .spirally. The lateral outlines are distinctly convex. 

 23 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The suture is narrowly channelled. Length 3.85, diam. 1.45, length 

 of aperture 1.1 mm. 



Odostomia (Evalina) eclecta n- sp. Fig. 21. 



Haena, Kauai. Type No. 117599, A. N. S. P., coll. by W. A. 

 and E. L. Bryan. Paratypes in Bryan coll. Also from Oahu at 

 Paumalu and Honolulu Harbor, W. A. and E. L. Bryan, and Kahala, 

 Mrs. A. F. Letson. 



The shell is subulate, slender, white. Nuclear whorl globose. 

 Succeeding whorls are rather convex, separated by a narrowly 

 channelled suture, having axial sculpture of very low, scarcely 

 noticeable plications, crossed by very numerous spiral threads, 

 which are a little unevenly spaced. The suture is deeply impressed 

 and crenulated by the axial folds. The aperture is ovate, oblique. 

 There is a low columellar fold. 



Length 4.15, diam. 1.1, length of aperture 1.1 mm.; 6| post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



This slender species has the contour of Turho7iilla. It was con- 

 fused by Pease with his 0. gracilis. 



Some of the specimens taken at Kahala, Oahu, have two cinnamon 

 bands, 



Odostomia eclecta nematoderma n. subsp. Fig. 20. 



Waikiki beach, Oahu. Type No. 93953, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is turrited, resembling 0. eclecta except that the form is 

 constantly stouter, tapering more rapidly. Sculpture of crowded, 

 unequal spiral threads. There is scarcely any trace of axial plication, 

 though there are some impressed lines. The type is white, but several 

 smaller specimens in the lot have two cinnamon bands, one at the 

 periphery of the last whorl, the other midway between that and the 

 suture. 



Length 4.2, diam. 1.2, length of aperture 1.2 mm. ; 6| post-embryonic 

 whorls. 



Odostomia (Cyclodostomia) suta n. sp. Fig, 22. 



Waikiki beach, near Honolulu. Type No. 93942, A. N. S. P., 

 collected by Frederick Stearns. 



The shell is oblong-conic, with obtuse (worn) summit. Subsequent 

 whorls of the spire are concave in the middle, with large elevated 

 spiral cords contiguous to the suture above and below. In the 

 upper whorls the cords are closely pressed together across the suture. 

 The last whorl has three cords, one subsutural, another peripheral 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



323 



and the third smaller, below the periphery. The aperture is ovate; 

 columellar fold deeply immersed. 



Length 1.9, diam. 0.9 mm. 



Four specimens, of which the most perfect has been selected for 

 type and figure. The largest is more than twice the size of this one, 

 but the base and aperture are broken. It belongs to the subgenus 

 Cydodostomia , apparently. 



Odostomia suta. 



Fig. 23. — Odostomia lelsonce. 



Odostomia letsonae n. sp. Fig. 23. 



Paumalu, Oahu. Type No. 117600, A. N. S. P., collected by 

 Mrs. A. F. Letson. 



The shell is oblong-conic, white, Nuclear whorls are worn. The 

 rest of the- whorls of the spire have two broad, rounded, contiguous 

 spiral ridges in the upper part. In the last whorl the ridges are more 

 separated, the lower one being narrower and median on the whorl; 

 there is also a third and smaller ridge around the axial region. Over 

 the whole surface there is a dense microscopic spiral striation. The 

 aperture is oblique, the outer lip irregular. The columella is very 

 thick, but shows no fold. 



Length 2.6, diam. 1.1, length of aperture 0.85 mm.; 8 whorls. 



The subgeneric position of this strongly sculptured little Odostomia 

 is not clear to me. In Dr. Bartsch's key it comes nearest to Cydo- 

 dostomia. It was picked from beach debris by Mrs. Letson, whose 

 work on the minute shells of this locality has brought many inter- 

 esting species to light. 

 Odostomia (Odostomia) kahoolawensis n. sp. Fig. 24. 



Northern shore of Kahoolawe. T\pe No. 116166, A. N. S. P., 

 coll. by Pilsbry, 1913. 



The shell is imperforate, conic, grayish white, with some opaque 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[ Dec, 



white spiral bands. The nuclear whorl is rather large, moderately 

 elevated, the tip turned in. Subsequent whorls are smooth, mod- 

 erately convex, separated by a deeply but narrowly impressed 

 suture. The aperture is ovate, oblique. Columellar fold strong and 

 sharp. Within the outer lip there are several spiral lirse, which 

 show through the shell as white bands, visible externally. 



Length 1.5, diam. 0.9, length of aperture 0.75 mm.; 4| whorls. 

 Odostomia (Odostomia loxocephala " sp. Fig. 26. 



Haena, Kauai. Type No. 117598, A. X. S. P., coll. by W. A 

 and E. L. Bryan. . 



The shell is conic, whitish, entirely smooth. The nuclear whorl 

 is large, subglobose, set excentrically at the summit. Following 

 whorls are moderately convex, with a few white axial lines but no 



Fig. 24. — Odostomia 

 kahoolaicensis. 



Fig. 25. — Odostomia 

 gulicki. 



Fig. 2Q.— Odostomia 

 loxocephala. 



striae. The aperture is large, ovate and oblique. The strong 

 columellar fold emerges. 



Length 1.85, diam. 0.95, length of aperture 0.8 mm.; 4 whorls. 



The initial whorl is more elevated than in 0. kahoolawensis. 



Odostomia (Odostomia) gulicki n. ?p. Fig. 25. 



Waikiki, near Honoluhi, Oahu. Type No. 93949, A. N. S. P. 

 Also Haena, Kauai, Bryan. 



The shell is rather thin, white, slowly tapering to the obtuse 

 summit. Initial whorl well elevated, smooth. Following whorls 

 are rather strongly convex, smooth except for very faint growth- 

 lines, no microscopic .striation visible. The suture is deeply im- 

 pressed. The aperture is oblique, broadly oval. Columellar fold 

 weak and low. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Length 2.2, cliam. 0.85 mm. ; 5| whorls in all. 



This small, smooth species appears to belong to the section 

 Brack !/stomia. 

 Odostomia iNesiodostomiai prima n. sp. Fig. 27. 



Mokapu Point, Oahu. Type No. 117622, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by W. A. and E. L. Bryan. Paratypes in Bryan collection. 



The shell is cylindric-fusiform, strong, glossy, white, with a broad 

 gray margin below the suture and a broad tawny zone in the middle 

 of the last whorl, its upper edge showing as a band above the suture 

 on two or three whorls preceding. Sculpture of indistinct spiral 

 impressed lines, rather widelj' spaced, and a few irregular axial 

 lines. The nuclear whorl projects somewhat nipple-like, its tip 

 turned in. Subsequent whorls are nearly flat, parted by a narrowly 

 but deeply cut suture. The aperture is narrowly piriform. The 

 outer lip is thin, and arches slightly forward. The inner margin 

 is, covered with a heavy callous, which spreads well forward. It is 

 straight except near the base, where it passes into the narrow, deeply 

 concave columella. Internally there is a spiral fold, which does not 

 emerge to the aperture, and is visible only on breaking the shell. 



Length 7.4, diam. 2.2, length of aperture 3.2 mm.; 7 whorls. 



This species may be considered the type of the subgenus Nesio- 

 dostomia, characterized by the straightened inner lip, covered with a 

 heavy, spreading callous, the columellar fold deeply immersed. The 

 aperture is shaped much as in Siihularia. 

 Odostomia (Nesiodostomia) secunda n- sp. Fig. 28. 



Mokapu Point, Oahu. Type No. 117620, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by ]Mrs. A. F. Letson. Paratypes in Bryan collection. 



The shell resembles 0. prima in form. It is chamois colored, 

 imperfectly transparent, having a wide gray sutural margin. The 

 surface is glossy, and shows some impressed axial striae. The last 

 whorl descends shortly to the aperture. 



Length 4.2, diam. 1.3, length of aperture 1.6 mm.; 5 post -nuclear 

 whorls. 



While this is evidently adult, by the descent of the suture just 

 preceding the aperture, it is much smaller in all its parts than 0. 

 prima, and quite unlike young shells of that species of the same 

 length. 

 Odostomia (Nesiodostomia) tertia n. sp. Fig. 29. 



Paumalu, Oahu. Type No. 117621, A. N. S. P., collected by 

 W. A. and E. L. Bryan. 



The shell is aculeate, the upper half of the spire attenuated, lateral 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



outlines distinctly concave; chamois colored with a wide, more grayish 

 border below the suture and an ill-defined cinnamon zone around the 

 middle of the last whorl, the base below it almost white. The 

 surface is glossy, with weak sculpture of spiral impressed lines and 

 slight, coarse axial striae. The summit is broken. Remaining 

 whorls of the spire nearly flat, the last long, weakly convex. The 

 suture is but slightly impressed, and descends rather al^ruptly but 

 shortly to the aperture. The aperture is very narrowly piriform. 

 The outer lip arches gently forward. The inner margin is convex, 

 covered with a spreading callous. Columella is narrow, deeply 

 concave, and very short. 



Length 7.7, diam. 2.3, lenglh of aperture 3.3 mm.; 7 whorls re- 

 maining, the summit broken. 



Fig. 27 .—Odostomia Fig. 28. — Odostomia Fig. 29.—Odostomia 

 prima. seciinda. terlia. 



Fig. 30.— 

 Odostomia 

 quarto. 



Odostomia (Nesiodostomia) quarta n. sp. Fig. 30. 



Waikiki beach, Oahu. Type No. 93927, A. N. S. P., coll. I)y F. 

 Stearns. 



The shell is cylindric-tapering, smooth, very glossy, cinnamon- 

 rufous. A wide subsutural margin is defined by a rather indistinct 

 line in the color. Outlines of the spire are barely convex, nearly 

 straight. The nuclear whorl is large, on edge, hemispherical; subse- 

 quent whorls are nearly flat, separated by a narrowly impressed 

 suture; the last whorl tapering below. The aperture is sub-piriform. 

 The inner margin is straight, rather heavily calloused. Columella 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



is very short and concave. The outer lip arches well forward in the 

 middle. 



Length 3.4, diam. 0.9, length of aperture 1mm.; 5| post-nuclear 

 whorls. 



The slender figure, the narrow form of the aperture and the glossy- 

 surface give this little shell a superficial likeness to the genus Stromhi- 



formis. 



VI. THE OSTREID^. 



Of the four species of Ostrea known from the islands, two are 

 apparently extinct. The existing species are quite small oysters. 

 0. sandvichensis is common on stone and shell bottom in Pearl 

 Harbor. 0. hanleyana appears to inhabit open shore and reefs. 



Professor Bryan- has recorded the unsuccessful attempts to 

 introduce eastern and Californian oysters. It could not reasonably 

 be expected that oysters from waters so much colder would thrive, 

 and so far as is known, they have died out completely. There is a 

 large valve of the Virginia oyster in the Bryan collection, picked out 

 of material dredged in Honolulu Harbor, probably a ballast shell. 



Ostrea sandvichensis Sowerby. PL XXI, figs. 4 to 8. 



1871. Ostrea sandi'ichensis Sowerby, Conch. Icon. Vol. 18, PI. 27, fig. 66 



(Sandwich Islands). 

 1916. Ostrea rosacea Bryan, Natural History of Hawaii, p. 457, PI. 104, 



fig. 8. 



Oahu: Eastern Lech (Pilsbry), Ford's Island and Waipahu (Bryan), 

 in Pearl Harbor, fossil at the latter place. Honolulu Harbor (Bryan). 



Kauai: Lualualei ba.sin, Milolii, fossil (Bryan). 



Molokai: Kainalu (Bryan). 



This fluted oyster is abundant in Pearl Harbor. It rarely exceeds 

 a length of 35 or 40 mm., and is usually smaller. It varies from 

 rounded to subtriangular in contour. The attached valve is generally 

 strongly plicate at the free edge. The other valve may be strongly 

 plicate, but is often nearly smooth. In color it varies from dull 

 purple to pale fleshy, with or without purple rays or clouds. The 

 nterior is whitish or olive. There is more or less minute crenulation 

 near the hinge. The valves are of the same size, or the lower one 

 may project very slightly beyond the other. The specimens growing 

 on Trochus sandwichensis imitate the sculpture of the gastropod 

 (fig. 8, Ford's Island). Figs. 4 and 5 are from examples taken in 

 the Eastern Loch. 



A fossil form from Ford's Island, Pearl Harbor is heavier and in 



- The Natural History of Hawaii, p. 445. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



the average larger than sandvichensis; there is rarely any trace of 

 corrugation, and the beaks are often very long. This form may 

 prove to be a distinct species when perfect specimens come to hand. 

 It may temporarily be called 0. sandvichensis margaritce (PI. 21, 



fig. 9). 



According to Bryan, the native name of this oyster is pioeoe. It is 

 too small to be of econonic value. 



Ostrea hanleyana Sowerby. PI. XXI, fig, l. 



1871. Ostrea hanleyana Sowerby, Conch. Icon. Vol. 18, Pi. 28, fig. 72 

 (Sandwich Islands). 



Oahu-: Mokuoloe Island, Kaneohe Bay (Kuhns and Thaanum) ; 

 Mokapu Point; Paumalu (Bryan), Molokai: Kainalu (Bryan). 

 Hawaii: Hilo (Thaanum). 



This is a rounded or oval oyster, usually showing slight traces of 

 fluting, or in others this is scarcely noticeable, creamy white outside, 

 white within, or having vinaceous stains. The attached valve 

 generally projects broadly beyond the other. The adductor scar 

 is small, shortly oval. There is some minute crenulation of the 

 inner edges near the beaks, which are alwaj's very short. The 

 usual length is 35 to 60 mm. 



Ostrea retusa ' Pease' Sowb. P!. XXI, fig.s. 2, 3. 



1871. Ostrea retusa Pease, Sowerby, Conch. Icon. Vol. 18, PL 19, fig. 42 



(Sandwich Is.). 

 1916. Ostrea retusa Pse., Bryan, Natural History of Hawaii, p. 115 (Pearl 



Harbor, fossil). 



Pearl Harbor, Oahu (Bryan, Kuhns, Pilsbry). 



This oyster has not yet been found living, the specimens being 

 from deposits believed to be pleistocene, on the shores of Pearl 

 Harbor. I found it in abundance in a railroad cut about one-fourth 

 mile east of Waipio, where a section of the ancient oyster bed is 

 exposed. 



It has been taken by Prof, and Mrs. Bryan at Waipahu, and by 

 Kuhns and Bryan on the southern border of Ford's Island. 



The extinction of the species may have been due to an inflow of 

 hot water from one of the tufa cones northward, as Prof. Bryan 

 suggests to me; or possibly a heavy fall of volcanic ash was blown 

 over Pearl Harbor, and the shell fish were smothered by the turbid 

 water. At all events, the species has not been found elsewhere in 

 the islands, either recent or fossil. We may infer that it had been 

 remarkably restricted in distribution for sometime previous to its 

 extinction. 



It is always a long, narrow oyster. The lower valve is frequently 




1917.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



somewhat fluted distally, though not often so much as in fig. 2. 

 The flat upper valve is generally smooth except for the usual rough 

 growth-lines. Both have crenulated inner edges when young, as 

 shown in the figures, but this feature is generally indistinct or lost 

 in old shells. The lower valve varies from having a rather deep 

 beak-cavity to none. A large specimen measures 14 cm. long, B 

 wide; others apparently adult are 10 cm. long. 

 Ostrea bryani n sp. PI. XX, figs. i. 2. 



Waianae, Oahu, from an excavation, about 20 ft. below the surface 

 of a reef elevated 60 to 80 ft. above sea level. Collected by Wm. 

 A. Bryan. 



The shell is very large, ponderous, oblong, extremely thick. The 

 more convex valve has a strong sculpture of rounded radial ridges, 

 some of which branch; at the lower edge there are about 15. Inside, 

 the beak occupies nearly half the total length. The flat valve has 

 a thin layer of calcareous material over most of the outside, but it 

 does not appear to be ribbed; towards the distal border, where it is 

 not encrusted, some coarse concentric laminae appear. Neither 

 valve shows any crenulation of the inner borders. 



Length of flat valve 210, width 140 mm. Weight of both valves 

 5 lbs. 9 oz. 



This huge oyster differs from 0. hyotis by its thick shell, long beaks 

 and far smaller corrugations. The associated shells are recent 

 species, so that the deposit is probably pleistocene. 



VII. VARIOUS GASTROPODS AND PELEOYPODS. 

 Strombus hawaiensis n. sp. PI. XXII, figs, i, 2. 



Pearl and Hermes Reef. Type collected by Lt. W. H. Munter. 

 Kauai at Haena and Milolii; Oahu at Paumalu and Waianae; and 

 INIolokai at Moomumi, all collected by W. A. and E. L. Bryan. 



The shell is turrited, speckled or mottled, and on the back of the 

 expanded lip banded with white. The last 4 or 5 whorls are angular 

 midway between sutures on the spire, and at the shoulder of the last 

 whorl. The earlier whorls are rounded. Nucleus smooth; three following 

 whorls having many low, narrow axial folds crossed by spiral threads; 

 on the subsequent whorls the folds weaken above the angle and become 

 nodular upon it; the slope above the angle becomes concave. On 

 the last two whorls the axial folds disappear and the nodules become 

 stronger. The spiral cords on the last whorl are strong and sub- 

 equal below the nodules, weak above them. A lump precedes the 

 anterior sinus of the outer lip. The lip expands, and is produced 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



upward in a long straight process, as in S. aratrum. The aperture 

 is white within, striate, especially above and below, the strise being 

 weaker in the middle. The thick outer lip is tinged with brown at 

 the edge. The callous of the inner lip and ventral face is white, 

 with a faint brown tint on the convexity, but no chestnut blotch. 

 Other characters about as in S. aratrum. 



Length 75, diam. about 41 mm.; 10 whorls. 



While this shell has much in common with Strombus aratrum 

 Martyn, it differs in color of the aperture and ventral callous, and 

 in the far stronger spiral sculpture. It appears to be widely spread 

 in the islands, but is nowhere common. 



Phasianella variabilis (Pease). Fig. .31. ^ 



In a peculiar color-variety of this species, which may be called 

 mutation trizonalis, the pattern is reduced to three spiral bands. 



Fig. 31. — Phasianella variabilis mut. 

 trizonalis. 



Fig. 32. — Nerifina hryance. 



It is from Kailua, Hawaii, 

 collection. 



Illustrated in fig. 31, from the Brvan 



Neritina bryanae n. sp. Fig. .32. 



Paumalu, Oahu. Type No. 117631, A. N. S. P., coll. by W. A. 

 and E. L. Bryan. Paratypes in Bryan collection. 



The shell is very small, semiglobose, polished, pale gray, having 

 four principal spiral bands of oblong, opaque white spots, and two 

 zones composed of fine reddish longitudinal lines. The spire is very 

 short, whorls about 2|. The aperture is very oblique. The callous 

 is not extensive, bluish or grayish white. Columellar edge straight, 

 having two or three teeth and notches barely indicated. In profile 

 view a strong tooth may be seen at the upper third of the columellar 

 edge. The operculum is unknown. 



Length 2.1, diam. 2.2 mm. 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



331 



Tellina (Arcopagia) elizabethae n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 8. 



Flint Island, coll. by C. D. Voy. Type No. 80253, A. N. 8. P. 

 Also Haena, Kauai, W. A. and E. L. Bryan. Hilo, Hawaii, D. 

 Thaanum. 



The shell resembles T. scobinata (L.) but differs by the somewhat 

 more produced beaks, the slopes in front and behind them straight, 

 and inclined to form a smaller angle. The basal margin is less 

 deeply curved. The posterior angle of the right valve is more promi- 

 nent, and there is a broad concave depression before it. The scales 

 of the surface are about half as large as in T. scobinata, much lower, 

 and thicker, being lengthened granules rather than scales in the 

 lower parts of the valves. Between the scales there are fine concen- 

 tric striae as in the other species; as in that, also, the scales are notice- 



Fig. 33. — Surface of Tellina scobinata X 3. Fig. 34. — Surface of T. elizabethce X 3. 



ably larger in the right valve than in the left. The right valve is 

 slightly larger, projecting above the left. 



The shell is white, wath a few rays of irregular cinnamon spots 

 (which photograph abnormally dark). The interior does not differ 

 materially from T. scobinata. 



Length 60|, alt. 57, diam. 27 mm. 



Comparative views of the sculpture of T. scobinata (fig. 33) and 

 T. elizabethce (fig. 34) are from corresponding parts of the right 

 valves of each. 



Two valves from Haena are 61| and 81 mm. long. The specimen 

 from Hilo is young, 32| mm. long. At this stage the processes of 

 the .surface are more scale like. 



This species was recorded from Flint Island under the name 

 T. scobinata in these Proceedings for 1905, p. 292. Its distinctness 

 from that species was brought to my attention by Mrs. Bryan, for 

 whom it is named. It has been compared with a long series of 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



T. scohinata, from the Loochoo Islands, various East Indian localities, 

 and the Fiiis. 



V 



A section Scutarcopagia, with T. scohinata as type, may be formed 

 for the Arcopagiae having scaly or granose sculpture. 



Tellina exculta hawaiensis n. subsp. 



Honolulu Harbor, Oahu, Bryan. Midway Isl., Mrs. D. Morrison. 

 Ocean Island, Capt. J. H. Brown. 



Differs from typical T. exculta bj^ having the thread-like striae 

 of both valves continuous over the posterior end, not interrupted 

 in front of the posterior ridge and weakened behind it, as in exculta. 

 The posterior end is also a little wider. 



Length 48.3, height 20.3, diam. 10.5 mm. 

 Codakia thaanumi n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 9. 



Hilo, Hawaii. Type No. 1 15958, A. N. S. P., collected by Mr. 

 D. Thaanum. 



The shell is subcircular, rather convex, the diameter over half 

 the height; white. Sculpture of unequal rounded radial ribs. On 

 the anterior slope these ribs are narrower than their intervals; on 

 the median segment they are decidedly wider; and at the posterior 

 end, they abruptly become much smaller. There are 38 ribs exclu- 

 sive of the fine posterior group. Over all there are fine, obtuse, 

 subregular concentric threads, and a number of impressions denoting 

 growth-arrest. The beaks are moderately prominent. The lunule 

 is cordiform, small, and rather deeply impressed. The interior is 

 white, tinted with sulphur yellow at the adductor scars; the tooth- 

 plate and pallial line straw yellow. It has either very few or rather 

 numerous punctures hi the cavity. Teeth are substantially as in 

 C. punctata (L.). 



Length 53, alt. 52.5, diam. 28.3 mm. 



This handsome clam is somewhat related to C. punctata (L), from 

 which it differs by the greater convexity and by the stronger, nar- 

 rower ribs. It is also relatively higher, with more prominent beaks. 



Some specimens have the whole interior sulphur yellow. 



Explanation of Plates XX, XXI, XXII. 



Plate XX. Ostrea hryani, n. sp. External and internal views of the valves 



of the holotype. 

 Plate XXI. — Fig." 1. Ostrea hanleyana Sowerby. Mokuoloe Island, Kaneohe 

 Bay. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Ostrea retusa Sowerby. East of Waipio, Oahu. Two views of 



the same specimen, a lower valve growing upon an upper. 

 Figs. 4, 5. — Ostrea sandnchensis Sowerby. Eastern Loch of Pearl Harbor, 

 No. 116680. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Figs. 6, 7. — Oslrea sandvichensis. External and internal views of a specimen 



from Ford's Island. 

 Fig. 8. — Ostrea sandvichensis growing on Trochus sandwichensis. Ford's 



Island, Pearl Harbor. 

 Fig. 9. — Ostrea sandvichensis margaritoe. Ford's Island, Pearl Harbor. 



Plate XXII. — Figs. 1, 2. Sirombus hawaiensis n. sp. Two views of the type. 

 Pearl and Hermes Reef. 

 Fig. 3. — Turbonilla vitiensis clavus n. subsp. \iu Is. 

 Fig. 4:.— Turbonilla vitiensis n. sp. Viti Is. Xo. 20046, A. X. S. P. 

 Figs. 5, 6, 7. — Turbonilla varicosa A. Ad. Honolulu. 

 Fig. 8. — Teliina elizabethce n. sp. Flint Island. 

 Fig. 9. — Codakia thaanumi n. sp. Hilo, Hawaii. 




334: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



POLARIZATION AND COLOR EFFECTS EXHIBITED BY CERTAIN DIATOMS. 



F. J. KEELEY. 



The June, 1917, issue of the Journal of the Royal Microscopical 

 Society, reprints a paper by E. M. Nelson, describing polarizing 

 effects shoAAai by certain diatoms, in which the suggestion is made 

 that ''it may be that silex deposited by animals does not exhibit 

 polariscope effects, while that deposited by plants, such as diatoms, 

 will do so." Hence a satisfactory explanation of tljis effect seems 

 desirable. 



When plane polarized light impinges on the surface of a transparent 

 isotropic substance so oriented as to be neither parallel nor normal 

 to the plane of polarization, each ray is, to a greater or less extent, 

 resolved into two polarized rays, vibrating parallel and normal to 

 the plane of incidence, transmitted and reflected respectively. If the 

 angle of incidence happens to correspond to the angle of maximum 

 polarization of the reflecting substance, the effect will be almost 

 complete, but only partial at other angles. Such reflected and 

 refracted rays, therefore, vibrate in planes different from that of the 

 original polarized light and would pass through an analyzer placed 

 at right angle to the polarizer. 



In using a polarizing microscope arranged to illuminate the object 

 with parallel rays and an objective of small aperture, there is little 

 chance of such reflected or refracted rays entering into the formation 

 of the image, and isotropic substances appear dark between crossed 

 prisms no matter what their shape, but the arrangement described 

 by Mr. Nelson includes a condenser above the polarizer and an 

 objective of fairly wide aperture, .5 N. A., under which conditions, 

 rays reflected up to the maximum polarizing angle or their refracted 

 components, may be transmitted through the objective, and the 

 corresponding structural elements of the object will appear bright 

 on a dark field, or modify the field color if a selenite film is interposed. 

 The structure of diatoms and other minute silicious organisms is 

 now sufficiently well understood to render it apparent that the 

 innumerable surfaces capable of reflecting light, amply account for 

 the polarizing effects noted, and, when illuminated under the de- 

 scribed conditions, all diatoms, radiolaria, sponge spicules, powdered 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



glass, or even the surface of a ground glass plate, will show bright 

 polarization, provided they are mounted dry or in a medium of high 

 refractive index such as realgar. When in l^alsam, or other media 

 approximating their own index, the reflections are nearly or quite 

 eliminated and most such objects become invisible, although some 

 of the thicker polycystina and diatoms may still appear faintly 

 contrasted with the black background, l)ut Mr. Nelson calls attention 

 to the interesting fact that there are certain species of diatoms that 

 show almost equally brilliant polarizing effects when mounted in 

 balsam. 



In 1901, there was published in these Proceedings, a short com- 

 munication by me, relating the results obtained from the examination 

 of a series of diatoms in media of various refractive indices, which 

 demonstrated that the secondary structure of certain species of 

 Aulacodiscus differed from that of most diatoms by remaining 

 equally distinct in all media, including a liquid with refractive index 

 1.42 to 1.13, in which diatoms generalh" became practically invisible. 

 This structure has the appearance of fine granules arranged uni- 

 formly, but not symmetrically, between the larger cells constituting 

 the primary structure, instead of over or under the latter as is the 

 case with the perforated plates forming the secondary structure of 

 most species of Coscinodiscus, Triceratium and many of Aulacodiscus. 

 It is exhibited most distinctly by Aulacodiscus formosus, on which 

 it can be well shown with a half inch of .60 N. A., but is present on 

 many species of this genus, including argus, rogersii, oregonus, etc.; 

 and is well displayed in a photograph of A . sturtii used as one of the 

 illustrations in recent editions of Carpenter, "The Microscope and 

 its Revelations." It may be accounted for by various hypotheses, 

 among which, by a process of elimination, the most satisfying is to 

 assume that the apparent granules are hermetically closed cavities, 

 impenetrable by any medium in which the diatom is immersed. 



It will be found that almost all the diatoms which exhibit bright 

 polarization when mounted in balsam, are included in the species 

 having this secondary structure, and, as it is not penetrated by the 

 balsam, the same explanation will apply as to dry mounted forms. 



Mr. Nelson specially mentions Auliscus oaniaruensis as giving a 

 most charming image with polarized light, and it is likewise one of 

 the best forms available for elucidating the subject. This was one 

 of the species which I formerly studied sectionally, and the markings 

 consist of slender tubes penetrating an unusually thick silicious 

 plate. It was not included among those examined in media of 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec.^ 



different refractive indices, but its appearance under high powers 

 indicates that the tubules are not penetrated by the mounting 

 medium. Its most important characteristic for the present purpose 

 is that the markings do not extend throughout the valve but are 

 confined to curved bands with clear interspaces and a large area of 

 clear silica in the center. On .examination with polarized light, 

 using the highest power and aperture objective that will stand dark 

 field illumination without halation, which in my experience, is a 

 4 mm. of .65 N. A., it will be noted that the polarizing effect is 

 confined strictly to the tu}:)ular markings, while the interspaces and 

 central area remain dark, indicating that the silica, itself, is entirely 

 devoid of polarizing action. 



Probably everyone who has mounted many slides of selected and 

 arranged diatoms, has at times been annoyed to find that the gelatine 

 fixative has sealed up some of the cellular structure of the diatoms, 

 preventing penetration by the mounting medium and producing 

 unsightly patches. However unsightly, they become interesting 

 with polarized light as the manner in which the air filled cells light 

 up, while the remainder of the valve is practically invisible, can 

 leave no doubt in the mind of the observer as to the cause of the 

 polarization effect. This was particularly noticeable on an arranged 

 group of marine diatoms from California, which on completion, I 

 regarded as greatly impaired by the manner in which the central 

 portion of several valves of Hyalodiscus maximus had been rendered 

 semi-opaque by the gelatine preventing complete penetration of 

 the balsam. With polarized light, the minute air filled c^Us closely 

 resembled, except in their symmetrical arrangement, the correspond- 

 ing assumedly air filled cells of the secondary structure of Aulacodiscus 

 formosus. A similar condition seems to exist naturally in Hyalodiscus 

 suhtUis, in which the so called umbilicus contains markings like the 

 margin, but being impenetrable to balsam, remains comparatively 

 dark when mounted in that medium, while the outer zone becomes 

 very transparent. It is hardly necessary to add, that the central 

 space reacts with polarized light. 



Microscopists accustomed to the employment of polarized light 

 for the purpose of determining whether a substance is isotropic or 

 doubly refracting, have long been familiar with the effects of reflec- 

 tion and refraction and the necessity of avoiding them by the use of 

 parallel illumination and mounting media of similar refraction to 

 the material examined. In this explanation. I have confined myself 

 to phenomena connected with the effect of •^uch reflection and 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



refraction on plane polarized light, but in an exhaustive treatment 

 of the subject it would be necessary to further consider that plane 

 polarized light, by internal total reflection or reflection from metallic 

 surfaces, at certain angles, may become circularly or elliptically 

 polarized, and in this form pass through the analyzing prism. This 

 may account for the fact that light reflected from the edge of a tin 

 foil cell, used by some preparers in mounting selected diatoms, will 

 appear bright between crossed prisms except where such edge is 

 parallel to the axis of either prism. 



In the communication referred to above, I mentioned that some of 

 the species of Aulacodiscus with the peculiar secondary structure, 

 exhibited bright colors with ordinary transmitted light, which I Avas 

 then unable to account for, but which I would now suggest may be 

 due to optical resonance. The group of phenomena classed under 

 this head, includes the scattering of light by particles or molecules 

 in the atmosphere, causing the blue color of the sky, and similar but 

 not identical effects produced by minute particles embedded in or 

 deposited on the surface of solids. The latter phase of the subject 

 has been extensively studied in connection with the so called ''ultra 

 microscopy" and it is unnecessary to give details here beyond 

 stating that one of the methods of illustrating it consists of dis- 

 tributing minute globules of gold on a glass surface by means of 

 electrical discharges from the end of a gold wire. Such films reflect 

 various colors according to the size of the particles and transmit 

 the complementary color. 



Some years ago, ]Mr. T. C. Palmer called my attention to the- 

 possibility of depositing thin films of gold from a solution of its 

 chloride in collodion, and gave me some of the prepared solution, 

 with which I experimented in depositing the gold on various organic 

 structures with the view of their elucidation, but found the film too 

 coarsely granular to be generally satisfactory. The films, when de- 

 posited on glass, transmitted various colors, generally dark blue, 

 and one in particular, after heating until the surface of the glass was 

 fused, gives brilliant red and blue color effects by transmitted light, 

 reflecting the complementary green and orange tints, due to optical 

 resonance from the minute granules in which the metal was deposited. 

 On examination under the microscope, the granular film shows a 

 startling resemblance to the secondary structure of the group of 

 Aulacodisci previously referred to, and suggests that the color shown 

 by some of them with transmitted light may be due to the same 

 cause. In most of these diatoms the structure is too coarse ta 

 24 




338 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



produce color by this means, merely giving them a more or less 

 opaque or sometimes metallic appearance, but in such forms as 

 A. oregonus, in which the structure is almost as fine as on the gold 

 film described, fairly bright colors appear, generally a bronzy green 

 by transmitted light, and the complementary color, pink, when 

 illuminated from above, which is as it should be, if the color is due to 

 optical resonance from the granules of the secondary structure. 



But the diatoms that show by far the brightest colors by trans- 

 mitted light, are certain species of Actinocyclus, notably ralfsii, in 

 which, as far as I am aware, no secondary structure has hitherto been 

 noted, yet if this theory was correct they should contain such a 

 structure and, to account for the brighter colors, it should be finer 

 than in any species of Aulacodiscus. On examination, this structure 

 was readily found to be present and particular^ visible in the central 

 blank space and wedge shaped radial segments between the coarser 

 cellular structure of A. ralfsii. It is extremely delicate and will afford 

 an excellent test for the definition of wide aperture objectives, although 

 after finding it with an oil immersion and selecting a well-marked 

 valve, was able to see it distinctly with a well-corrected water immer- 

 sion of about 1.00 N. A., and even with an exceptionally fine dry 

 objective of slightly less aperture. 



If it should prove that this structure in Actinocyclus has been 

 previously seen by others (as is usually the case with all supposedly 

 new observations with the microscope) it will not make the slightest 

 difference in this connection, as it was entirely unsuspected and new 

 to me, and being found, not by accident, but because its presence 

 was indicated theoretically, it seems to furnish rather strong evidence 

 in favor of the correctness of the theory. As in the case of Aulaco- 

 discus, Actinocyclus shows complementary colors with transmitted 

 and reflected light, and fairly bright polarizing effects when mounted 

 in balsam. On examination in a fluid of about 1.43 refractive index, 

 it remained visible and showed bright colors by transmitted light. 



All the diatoms with this peculiar secondary structure which I 

 have as yet examined in media of various refractive indices, show 

 brighter, higher order colors as the refractive index is increased, 

 although the structure itself shows no change in visibility, indicating 

 that the internal structure is combined with surface irregularities 

 that permit the index of the medium to modify the color in accord- 

 ance with the change in wave length of light transmitted through 

 it. f A hypothetical view would be that the structure corresponds 

 to that of a foam, both with respect to the internal closed cavities, 

 and the external surface. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



November 20. 

 Henry Skinner, ]\I.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-four persons present. 



The PubHcation Committee reported the reception of papers 

 under the following titles: 



''Marine INIollusks of Hawaii, I-III," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



"Notes on INIexican Melanopli," bj^ Morgan Hebard. 



"Concerning Rafinesque's Precis des Decouvertes Somiologiques," 

 b}^ David Starr Jordan. 



"On a forgotten genus of sharks," by David Starr Jordan. 



"The Myth of the ship-holder: Studies in Echeneis and Re- 

 niora, I," by E. W. Gudger. 



"New and little known Gastropoda from the Upper Cretaceous 

 of Tennessee," by Bruce Wade. 



" Colpichthys, Thirinops, and Austromenidia. New Genera of 

 Atherinoid fishes from the New World," by Carl L. Hubbs. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Henry P. Dixon. 



William D. Winsor. 



Amos Peaslee Brown, Ph.D. 



The death of William Bullock Clark, a correspondent, was also 

 announced. 



Professor William Alanson Bryan made a communication 

 entitled "A Diplomatic Adventure of a Naturalist on a Pacific 

 Island." (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 



Henry D. Moore. E. M. Wistar. 



George B. Evans. Thomas Skelton Harrison. 



Effingham B. Morris, Jr. Milton Campbell. 



Philip A. Castner. William B. Linn. 



Charles M. Rainsford. John Frederick Lewis. 



Marshall S. Morgan. George Barrie. 



J. W. Green. David B. Shepp. 




340 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Samuel W. Cooper. 

 John Dickey, Jr. 

 Charles J. Bender. 

 John D. Mcllhenny. 

 J. Leslie Davis, M.D. 

 C. Herbert Bell. 

 A. Van Rensselaer. 

 A. Robinson Mcllvaine. 

 John J. Boericke. 



Ellis D. Williams. 

 Gideon Boericke. 

 Felix A. Boericke, M.D. 

 Eldridge R. Johnson. 

 William H. Morris. 

 A. Clayton Woodman. 

 Ellis Pusey Passmore. 

 George E. Earnshaw. 

 William B. Read. 



December 18. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the follo^\ing 

 papers : 



"The Marine Mollusks of Hawaii, III-VII," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



"Polarization and Color Effects exhibited by certain Diatoms,"" 

 by F. J. Keeley. 



The following annual reports were ordered to be printed: 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that late in Sep- 

 tember, he was disabled by an affection of the right side which has 

 reduced him to a passive administration of the affairs of his offices 

 of Recording Secretary and Librarian, the active duties of the posi- 

 tion being performed by the Assistant Librarian, William J. Fox. 



The Secretary, in the hope of being able to resume the duties of . 

 his ofl&ces with the opening of the New Year, has been sustained 

 by the sympathy of the President and the other administrators of 

 the Academy, to whom, and to other friends, he returns his sincere 

 thanks. 



The following report, and that of the Librarian, have been prepared 

 by Mr. Fox, whose efficiency is cordially recognized by the Secretary 

 and Librarian. 



Acknowledgment is also made to Dr. J. Percy Moore and Dr. Philip 

 P. Calvert for services at the meetings of the Academy and Council. 



Meetings were held on December 16, 1916, January 16, February 

 20, March 20, April 17, June 12, and November 20,, 1917. Com- 

 munications were made by William E. Hughes, Mrs. Arthur R. 

 Iliff, John G. Rothermel, Philip P. Calvert, and William Alanson 

 Bryan. 



Twenty-three papers have been presented for publication as 

 follows: E. Caziot (translated by William H. Dall), 1; Henry W. 

 Fowler and Emmett Reid Dunn, 1 ; Henry A. Pilsbry and Amos P. 

 Brown, 1 ; Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels, 1 ; Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 4; E. G. Vanatta, 1; Harold Heath, 1; Henry A. Pilsbry and J. H. 

 Ferriss, 1; Henry W. Fowler, 2; Henry A. Pilsbry and Charles W. 

 Johnson, 1; Henry L. Viereck, 1; Witmer Stone, 1; Morgan Hebard^ 

 2; David Starr Jordan, 2; E. W. Gudger, 1; Bruce Wade, 1; Carl L. 

 Hubbs, 1. 



Seventeen of these papers have been published (and one is in 

 course of publication) in the Proceedings, one has been accepted 

 for publication in the Journal, two have been referred to other 

 sources of publication, and two have been returned to the authors. 



Six hundred and thirty-two pages of the Proceedings, with 

 thirty-six plates, have been issued. 



The American Entomological Society (the Entomological Section 

 of the Academy) has published four hundred and eighty-nine pages, 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



with thirty-four plates, of its Transactions; two hundred and 

 eighty-four pages, with ten plates, of Memoirs; and five hundred 

 and seven pages, with thirty-one plates, of the Entomological 

 News. 



One hundred and forty-three pages, with twenty plates, have 

 been issued of the Manual of Conchology. 



The total number of pages is two thousand and fifty-five, and 

 131 plates, being an increase of 130 pages and twenty-two plates 

 over last year. 



One hundred and two members and one correspondent have been 

 elected. Fourteen deaths have been announced. Resignations have 

 been received from Warren M. Foote, Theodore Brooks, and Walter 

 Sonneberg. Five were dropped from the roll. 



The increase in new members is due to the activities of the Com- 

 mittee on Membership and Endow^nent. The financial results of 

 the campaign of this committee will, no doubt, be referred to in the 

 Treasurer's report. 



The special appointments of the Council are as follows: The 

 Standing Committees, the Councillor, the Curator of the William 

 S. Vaux Collections, and the Custodian of the Lea Collections. In 

 addition, there were appointed a Committee of Council on By-Laws, 

 and a Committee on Correspondents, 



The Hayden ]\Iemorial Geological Award, a gold medal, for the 

 best work of a geologist or a paleontologist, Avas conferred on Pro- 

 fessor William Morris Davis, of Harvard University. 



A meeting of the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpet- 

 ologists was held in the lecture hall in March. 



The Ludwick Institute Free Lecture Courses were given at the 

 Academy on Mondays and Fridays, January 8 to April 23, by 

 Witmer Stone, B. Franklin Royer, Henry Skinner, Spencer Trotter, 

 and Henry A. Pilsbry. Ten lectures on the natural history of 

 Philadelphia and vicinity, especially adapted to school children, 

 were given by Messrs. Stone, Moore, Pilsbry, and Skinner, of the 

 Academy staff. 



Edward J, Nolan, Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The volume of incoming correspondence, which is somewhat of 

 an index of scientific activity abroad, fell during the past year to a 

 point where it was barely one-third of the receipts of the years 

 immediately preceding the war. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



William Morris Davis, the recipient of the last Hayden Medal, 

 was elected a correspondent and fimile Henri Sauvage and William 

 Bullock Clark, correspondents, died. 



No international scientific congresses were held and no invitations 

 whatever to participate in important scientific activities were re- 

 ceived by the Corresponding Secretary. 



Thanks were received from the University of Pennsylvania Chapter 

 of the Society of the Sigma Xi and the American Society of Ichthyol- 

 ogists and Herpetologists for courtesies received in connection with 

 their meetings held in the Academy's building. 



Considerable scientific information was furnished to inquiring 

 correspondents. 



Statistics of the correspondence follow: 



Communications received: 



Acknowledging the reeeipt of the Academy's pubUcations 149 



Transmitting pubhcations to the Academy... 24 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 2 



Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc 



Notices of deaths of scientific men •_• 1 



Circulars concerning' the administration of scientific and educational 



institutions, etc 1'^ 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 4 



Letters from correspondents , ^6 



Miscellaneous letters ^^ 



Total received 257 



Communications forwarded : 



AcknowledgiuT: gifts to the library 1069 



Requesting the suppty of deficiencies ...• 147 



Acknowledging gifts to the museum 123 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 2 



Letters of sympathy or congi-atulation, addresses, etc 1 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' creden- 

 tials 1 



Miscellaneous letters 10 '^ 



Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 180 



Total forwarded 1,630 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian has stated in the report of the Recording Secretaiy 

 that he has been compelled by a disabling affection since last Sep- 

 tember to depend on the Assistant Librarian, William J. Fox, for 

 the performance of the duties of both offices, a service which he has 




344 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



performed with efficiency and accuracy. The statistics which follow 

 have been prepared by Mr. Fox. It is hoped the Librarian will be 

 able to resume his services in the Academy at the beginning of the 

 year. 



Total additions, 5,902. 569 were volumes, 5,185 were pamphlets 

 and parts of periodicals, and 147 were maps, and 1 sheet. 



The}' were received from the following sources: 



Exchanges 



Isaiah V. Wilhamson Fund 



Estate of Benjamm Sharp 



United States Department of 

 Agricuh lire 



General Appropriation for pur- 

 chase of books 



Authors 



American Entomological Society 



Editors 



United States Bureau of Educa- 

 tion 



Library of Congress 



Illinois State Geological Survey 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 



Imperial Department of Agri- 

 culture of the British West 

 Indies 



Pennsylvania Department of 

 Agriculture 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund 



Secretaria de Fomento, Mexico 



Oklahoma Geological Survey... 



New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 



Dr. Henry Skinner 



Pennsylvania Department of 

 Health 



Scientific Society of San Antonio 



California State Commission of 

 Horticulture 



Illinois State Geological Survey 



Pan-American Union 



Frank J. Keelej^ 



Pennsylvania State Library 



Vermont Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 



Trustees of the British Museum 



Commissao de Linhas Tele- 

 graphicas Estrategicas de 

 Matto Grosso ao Amazonas... 



David Jayne Bullock 



United States Department of 

 the Interior 



United Department of Com- 

 merce and Labor 



Nova Scotia Department of 

 Agriculture 



University of Wyoming 



George Vaux, Jr 



2,541 



1,190 



750 



581 



97 

 78 

 73 

 71 



65 

 43 

 43 

 25 



25 



24 

 22 

 22 

 22 



18 

 14 



14 

 13 



12 

 12 

 12 

 11 

 10 



9 

 9 



9 

 9 



7 

 6 

 6 



War Department 



Edward J. Nolan 



American Iron and Steel Insti- 

 tute 



Lowell Observatory 



Publication Committee of the 

 Academy 



Nela Research Laboratory 



Samuel G. Gordon 



Mrs. Samuel R. Shipley 



LTniversity of Michigan 



Queensland Department of 

 Mines 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 

 Game, Mass 



Scripps Institute for Biological 

 Research 



Imperial Geological Survey of 

 .lapan 



Clarence B. Moore 



New Jersey Department of Con- 

 servation and Development... 



Indiana University 



Danish Government 



Colorado Museum of Natural 

 History 



Commission of Conservation, 

 Canada 



Michigan Geological and Bio- 

 logical Survey 



Henry A. Pilsbry 



California Fish and Game Com- 

 mission 



University of Tennessee 



Bermuda Biological Station for 

 Research 



San Diego Society of Natural 

 History 



Ciierpo de Engenieros de Minas 

 del Peru 



Geological Survey of Alabama.. 



Wistar Institute of Anatomy 

 and Biology 



Henry Tucker 



Department of Trade and Cus- 

 toms, Australia 



Delaware Valley Ornithological 

 Club 



Argentine Government 



William J. Fox 



5 

 5 



5 

 5 



5 

 5 

 5 

 5 

 5 



4 



4 



4 



4 

 4 



3 

 3 

 3 



3 



3 



3 

 3 



3 

 3 



3 



2 



2 

 2 



2 

 2 



2 

 2 

 2 




1917 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



345 



South Dakota State College of 



. Agriculture 



Department of Marine and 



Fisheries, 1 1 awa 



Washington Academy of Sciences 



Iowa Geological Survey 



Pennsylvania Water Supply 



Commission 



The Southwest Museum 



Department of Fisheries of 



Bengal, etc 



Mississippi State Geological 



Survey 



Boston City Hospital 



Observatorio de Madrid 



Western Reserve University 



Henry Fairfield Osborn 



George M. Greene 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Forestry '. 



United States Brewers' Associa- 

 tion 



Delaware County Institute of 



Science 



1 



Zoological Society of Philadel- 

 phia 



Charles M. Burns 



Coleman Sellers, Jr 



Witmer Stone 



Government of India 



Government of Formosa 



Justus Perthes' Geographische 

 Anstalt 



Geological Survey of Georgia... 



Westwood Astrophysical Obser- 

 vatory 



North Carolina Geological and 

 Economic Survey 



Warren Academy of Sciences... 



Board of Water Supply, New 

 York City 



Game Commissioners of Penn- 

 sylvania 



Charles W. Richmond 



Thornwall Museum 



Carl Hering 



Estacion Sismologica de Cartuja 



These additions have been distributed to the various departments 

 of the Hbrary as follows: 



Journals 3,434 



Agriculture ^ ; 768 



Geology 409 



Entomology 252 



Anatomy and Physiology 203 



General Natural History 134 



Geography 130 



Botany 82 



Helminthology 75 



CoDchology 71 



Anthropology 63 



Ornithology 38 



Physical Sciences 



Ichthyologj- 



Mammalogy 



Medicine '. 



Voyages and Travels. 



Mathematics 



Chemistry 



Herpetology 



Mineralogy 



Bibliography 



Philology 



Miscellaneous 



34 



32 



23 



19 



19 



14 



13 



11 



9 



5 



1 



63 



Some of the more important works received are: 



Mededeelingen van de Rijksopsporing van Delfstoffen. Holland. 



Thorburn, A. British Birds. 4 vols. 



Bateman, J. The Orchidacete of Mexico and Guatemala. Folio. 1843. 



Aristotle. Totius N turalis Philoi-ophise in Physicam Aristotelis Epitome, 



etc. Hieronymo Vuildcnbergio Aurimontano autore. 1544. 

 Rafinesque, C. S. Analyse de la Nature. 1S15. 

 Reichenbach, H. G. L. Zoologie oder Naturgeschichte des Thierreichs. 2 vols. 



in one. Dresden, etc. 1828-36. 

 Palseontographica Americana. 



The following journals are new to the collection: 



Abstracts of Bacteriology. Baltimore. 



Annates du Service des Epiphyties. 



Association of American Geographers, Annals. 



Bermuda Biological Station for Research, Contributions. Cambridge 



British Mycological Society, Transactions. 



Bulletin Biologique de la France et de la Belgique. Paris. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



Department of Agi'iculture, Ceylon. Leaflet. 



Dublin Quarterly Journal of Science. 



Entomological Society of Nova Scotia, Proceedings. 



Genetics. Princeton. 



Institut Colonial de Marseille, Bulletin. 



Junta de Ciencias Naturals, Barcelona. Series Biologico-Oceanografica; Series 



Botanica; Series Zoologica. 

 ]\Iagasin Encyclopedique. 122 vols. 1795-1816. 

 Nova Scotia Department of Agriculture, Bulletin. 

 Osborn Botanical Laboratorv, Yale University, Contributions. 

 Midland Naturalist (London). 16 vols. 1878-1893. 

 Rivista Italiana di Speleologia. Bologna. 

 Royal Society of Western Australia, Journal and Proceedings. 

 Revue Zoologique Russe. Moscow. 

 Scientific Society of San Antonio, Bulletin. 

 Secretaria de Fomento, etc. Mexico, Boletin Oficial. 

 Sutton and Sons, Bulletin. Reading, England. 



University of Michigan ^Museum of Zoology, Miscellaneous Publications. 

 Westwood Astrophysical Observatory, Occasional Scientific Papers. 



Sixty-five works in seventy-one volumes have been loaned. 1146 

 works in 1678 volumes have been used by the attachees in connec- 

 tion with their studies. 



Five hundred and seventy-three volumes have been boutid. 



Mr. Furman S. Wilde, Assistant in the Library, has been serving 

 in the National Army since November 3, 1917. 



^Miss H. N. Wardle has kindly rendered efficient aid as caretaker 

 of the Library during the Assistant Librarian's absence. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators, at the close of the present year, are able to report 

 the collections and buildings in their care, in excellent condition. 

 The museum staff has been constantly employed in the study, 

 arrangement, and chsplay of the collections in the various depart- 

 ments as described in detail below. 



Alost of this work has consisted in carrying out the arrangement 

 of material in the new study and exhibition cases, as outlined in 

 last year's report, but much new material has also been cared for. 



At the session of the State Legislature, which closed early in the 

 past summer, an appropriation of $15,000 was made for the needs 

 of the Academy. From this fund it was possible to paint the entire 

 outside wood and iron work of the buikhng, which was much in need 

 of attention. Plans have been prepared for necessary alterations 

 in the heating plant, Avhich will be carried out at once. The con- 

 sideration of other improvements made possible by this appropria- 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



tion has been temporarily postponed owing to the ilhiess of the 

 President and Executive Curator, Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. 



The attendance of visitors, both the general public and the classes 

 of school children from the city and nearby towns, has been large, 

 and the educational importance of the museum is constantly in- 

 creasing. 



In field work, Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his 

 explorations among the Indian mounds of the Southern States. 

 Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, through the liberality of Mr. Morgan Hebard, 

 was enabled to join him on an entomological trip of several weeks 

 in central Florida and northern Georgia, the Academy sharing in 

 the material collected. Dr. Stone received leave of absence for 

 several weeks during the spring and summer, and collected consider- 

 able botanical and entomological material for the Academy in 

 central South Carolina and southern New Jersey, and local field 

 work was carried on by various members of the staff. While the 

 Academy sent out no expeditions during the year, several valuable 

 collections of mollusks, birds, fishes and insects were obtained by 

 purchase. 



Details of work in the several departments follow : 



Mammals. 



Many osteological preparations have been made by the taxider- 

 mist from material received from the Zoological Society- of Phila- 

 delphia, which are ready to be placed in the study series, and a 

 number of specimens from the same source, as well as two sea lions 

 from the Philadelphia Aquarium, have been prepared as skins. 

 Material has been loaned to Dr. J. A. Allen. 



Birds. 



By removing a number of duplicates from the general exhibition 

 collection of birds, space was secured for the display of a large part 

 of the groups of North American birds recently received from Mr. 

 Geo. B. Benners, an exhibit w^hich has attracted much attention. 

 During the spring the services of Miss Emma P. Merrick were 

 secured as an aid in the ornithological department, and with her 

 help. Dr. Stone was enabled to make a great advance in the arrange- 

 ment of the study series of birds. 



The entire series of hummingbirds were examined and many of 

 the specimens made over, while all were identified and relabeled. 

 The Jewel collection and the Rhoads Guatemala collections were 




."348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



also identified and relabeled, and together with the Carriker collec- 

 tion of Colombian birds, were distributed through the study series, 

 and 1,173 specimens were catalogued. 



The entire collection of birds eggs has been carefully cleansed 

 and all the North American specimens placed in uniform glass- 

 covered boxes secured for the purpose. In these they are absolutely 

 protected and present a very handsome appearance. 



Several important accessions have been received, notably the 

 collection of bird skins of the late Samuel Wright, presented by 

 Mrs. Wright; the Charles J. Pennock collection of eggs and skins, 

 presented by Mrs. Pennock; and collections of Colombian birds 

 and of Hummingbirds obtained by purchase. A number of visiting 

 ornithologists have made use of the collections during the year and 

 specimens have been loaned to J. E. Law, and W. E. Clyde Todd. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



^Ir. Henry W. Fowler has had charge of this department and has 

 looked after the welfare of the specimens along with those of the 

 ichthyological department. 200 specimens have been catalogued, 

 representing part of the material received during the year. A 

 number of West Indian reptiles have been loaned to Dr. Thomas 

 Barbour, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, who is studying 

 them critically and redetermining them while a series of African 

 reptiles has been borrowed by the American Museum of Natural 

 History. Mr. G. K. Noble visited the Museum in the summer 

 and made use of the collections while Mr. E. R. Dunn has studied 

 certain of the Salamanders and in conjunction with Mr. Fowler, 

 has prepared a paper upon them. 



During the summer Dr. Stone and the Taxidermist, Mr. McCad- 

 den, made experiments in preparing casts of local reptiles for ex- 

 hibition and material was obtained for several groups of turtles and 

 toads. Specimens were loaned to Dr. Thos. Barbour, G. K. Noble, 

 Mary C. Dickerson and Karl P. Schmidt. 



Fishes. 



Mr. Fowler reports large accessions to the ichthyological collec- 

 tions, of Avhich 1,134 have been catalogued. He has identified a 

 collection of Philippine fishes for the Philadelphia Commercial 

 Museum, in return for which the Academy has received a valuable 

 series of specimens, while in the same way he has secured from the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology, a series of cyprinoid fishes from 




1917. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349* 



India. The Academy is again especially indebted to Messrs. E. 

 S. and W. I. Mattern, who have presented collections of local fishes 

 from various parts of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, aggregating 

 5,000 specimens. On March 8, the second meeting of the American 

 Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists w^as held at the Academy, 

 which brought together specialists in these fields from various parts 

 of the country and proved in every way most successful. 



Three papers dealing with the collections were published by ]\Ir. 

 Fowler during the year. Specimens w^ere loaned to Dr. C. H. Eigen- 

 mann. 



MOLLUSKS. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, Special Curator of IVIollusks, states that 

 specimens have been received from 82 persons and institutions since 

 the last report. Among other valuable gifts w-ere large accessions to 

 the collection of Hawaiian Mollusca, received from Mr. D. Thaanum, 

 of Hilo, Hawaii, and from Prof, and Mrs. W. A. Biyan, of Honolulu, 

 who spent several months at the Academy studying the collections. 

 Also the important Rockj^ Mountain and California material from 

 Prof. Junius Henderson and ]\Ir. Jas. H. Ferriss. 



New cases installed last year have permitted the expansion and 

 rearrangement of the whole study series of shells, which is now in 

 excellent order. 



Dr. Pilsbry has completed the first volume of the "Monograph 

 of the Pupillidse,'" begun last j'ear, the final number being now 

 in press. He has also published three papers on the anatomj' of 

 West American snails, and in collaboration with ]Mr. Ferriss, a 

 study of the mollusks of the Black Range, New Mexico. Also 

 papers on Hawaiian marine shells. 



Mr. Vanatta has been occupied "\^ith labeling and arranging 

 accessions to the collection and in determining specimens for corres- 

 pondents. Miss Ziegler has made good progress in the long task 

 of cataloguing the collection of shells. 



The collection has been extensively used b}^ visiting naturalists. 

 Specimens have been loaned to Dr. Paul Bartsch, Prof. A. E. Verrill 

 and E. P. Chase. 



Insects. 



In the department of Entomology, Dr. Henry Skinner reports 

 that during the year, tw'o thousand three hundred and eightj'-six 

 insects have been received, and the greater part of them has been 

 relaxed, mounted and placed in the cabinets. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The usual care has been devoted to the preservation of the col- 

 lections and a considerable amount of rearrangement in the new 

 metal cases carried into effect. In the Coleoptera the family Cer- 

 ambycidffi has been rearranged in its entirety. The Silphidae, 

 Scydmsenidse and Pselaphidse have also been rearranged. 



In the Lepidoptera the genus Argynnis has been rearranged, and 

 many adcUtional specimens added. Some work has also been done 

 on the exotic species. Mr. R. C. Williams, Jr., arranged the Lycseni- 

 dse according to his studies of the genitalia of the family. 



In the Diptera, Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr., has continued his system- 

 atic studies of the family Ephj^dridse, and has also determined and 

 rearranged the Sciomyzidse and Sarcophagidis. 



In the Orthoptera, Mr, J. A. G. Rehn has continued the rearrange- 

 ment of the specimens in the new type of large glass-covered boxes, 

 and the work has been nearly completed. Numerous small collections 

 have been mounted, labeled, and stored. A report on extensive 

 Brazilian collections has been completed, as well as a study of the 

 genus Mermiria both of which will be published as soon as the 

 illustrations are completed. Numerous specimens have been de- 

 termined for correspondents. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard has spent most of his time at the Museum 

 during the year and in the course of his studies on his various col- 

 lections, has presented much valuable material to the Academy. 

 His expedition to Florida and Georgia, already referred to, was 

 productive of collections of much importance. Many visiting 

 entomologists have studied the collections of insects during the 

 year and specimens have been loaned to Jas. S. Hine, G. C. Crampton 

 and W. T. Davis. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



The collections of vertebrate fossils have been removed to the new 

 series of cases provided for them last year. The main collections 

 are arranged in trays in the storage closets under the cases, while a 

 representative series has been selected from them for exhibition. 

 The mammals and birds have been arranged by Mr. Rehn, the 

 reptiles and fishes by Mr. Fowler, Mr. Rehn has also compiled 

 extensive data from which comprehensive labels will be prepared, 

 describing the exhibition for the benefit of the public. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Accessions to this department have not been large during the past 

 year, Dr, Pilsbry and the late Prof, Amos P, Brown have published 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



a paper describing a small, but valuable lot of fossils from Colombia, 

 given by Mr. Lloyd B. Smith. A preliminary report on Santo 

 Domingo fossils by Dr. Pilsbry and Mr. C. W. Johnson, has also 

 been published. 



Herbarium. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown, who has been able to again take active 

 control of the herbarium, spending every other day at the Museum, 

 reports much progress in the work in this department. 



During the year Miss Ada Allen has mounted 3,388 sheets of 

 plants, which have been catalogued and distributed in the general 

 herbarium by Mr. Brown, while Mr. S. S, Van Pelt, who has con- 

 tinued his voluntary services during the j^ear, has mounted 2,400 

 sheets for the local herbarium. 



]\Ir. Brown has studied and identified the collections made in 

 California by Dr. Witmer Stone, and in New Mexico by Dr. Henry 

 A. Pilsbry during 1915, and has also prepared for distribution to the 

 New York Botanical Garden, St. Louis Botanical Garden, Gray 

 Herbarium and U.S. National Herbarium, 1,723 duplicate specimens, 

 in return for valuable accessions received from these institutions. 



Mr. Van Pelt has rearranged nearly the entire Porter collection, 

 placing the specimens in systematic order so that they are readily 

 accessible, while he and Mr. Bayard Long have critically studied 

 certain families and separated out the local material, much of which 

 has been mounted. Mr. Long has continued his voluntary care 

 of the local herbarium. 



Dr. J. C. Arthur and Mr. C. L. Shear spent a week in the study 

 of the deSchw^initz cryptogamic herbarium and rearranged much 

 of it, giving the Academy the benefit of their expert knowledge of 

 these obscure plants. 



Specimens have been loaned to Prof. M. L, Fernald, W. W. 

 Eggleston, Francis J. Pennell, C. V. Piper, Mrs. Agnes Chase and 

 Prof. A. S. Hitchcock. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, a student on the Jessup Fund, has con- 

 tinued to render excellent service in caring for the collections of 

 minerals and rocks. During the year he has thoroughly cleansed 

 and relabeled the collection of minerals deposited by the Franklin 

 Institute and arranged them in the new cases in the mineral hall, 

 part of them being placed on exhibition and the others in the study 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



collection. A number of small collections aggregating 6,000 speci- 

 mens which have been stored in the basement were critically exam- 

 ined, specimens of value placed in the general series and the others 

 packed away for disposal as duplicates. 



On several field trips to northern New Jersey, Virginia, etc., Mr. 

 Gordon secured a number of valuable rocks and minerals for the 

 collection. 



The arrangement of the William S. Vaux collection has been com- 

 pleted, and Mr. George M. Greene was employed to prepare new 

 labels for the entire collection. This work was completed early 

 in the year. Further labeling of groups, etc., has been done by 

 Mr. Gordon. 



Archeology. 



Mr. Moore's field expedition during the first three months of 

 1916, made a re-investigation of aboriginal sites along the lower 

 Mississippi River and in northwest Florida and Southern Alabama. 

 The autumn expecUtion was devoted to the region of northwest 

 Florida and southwest Georgia. The results of both expeditions 

 being largely pottery, regarded as duplicate, proved the thorough- 

 ness of his earlier investigations. The collections of archaeological 

 material in the museum have been partly rearranged during the 

 year, by Miss H. N. Wardle, who has continued to care for the 

 department and many specimens have been identified for visitors 

 and correspondents. 



A number of local collectors have consulted the collections during 

 the year. 



Wither Stone, Chairman, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Henry Tucker. 



Report of the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collection. 



Completion of re-labeling, during the early months of the year, 

 has brought the William S. Vaux Collection into satisfactory condi- 

 tion. 



Accessions during the year include ten specimens of meteorites 

 and fifteen of minerals, acquired by purchase, and the following 

 gifts: 



Thaumasite, Paterson, N. J., and Cacoxenite, Hellertown, Pa., 

 presented by Samuel G. Gordon; Stevensite, Paterson, N. J., and 




1917. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Pectolite, Great Notch, N. J., presented by John Holzman; Babing- 

 tonite, Paterson, N. J., presented by R. A. Mercer; Beraunite, 

 Hellertown, Pa., presented by Fred. Oldach; and Rutile, Rowlands- 

 ville, Philadelphia, presented by Harry A. Warford. 



Samuel G. Gordon has continued to give valuable assistance in 

 caring for the collection. 



Respectfully submitted, 



F. J. Keeley, Curator W7n. S. Vaux Collection. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section. — The Biological 

 and Microscopical Section held eight meetings during the year. 

 The attendance and membership have increased. 



The Conservator reports the gift of a Hartnack microscope and 

 more than eight hundred slides of Invertebrata from the estate 

 of the late Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Some work has been done in the 

 arrangement of the general collection of slides. 



Numerous communications have been made by members including 

 Messrs. T. C. Palmer, Hugo Bilgram, W. H. Van Sickel, Dr. Thomas 

 S. Stewart, F. J. Keeley, J. G. Rothermel, S. L. Schumo, B. F. Ray, 

 and C. S. Boyer. 



The following officers were elected for the year 1918: 



Director J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Treasurer Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



Conservator F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Cor. Sec. Charles S. Boyer. 



' Charles S. Boyer, Recorder. 



Entomological Section. — Six stated meetings were held during 

 the year, with an average attendance of ten persons. Interesting 

 communications were made by: Morgan Hebard, Philip P. Calvert, 

 Henry Skinner. James A. G. Rehn, Philip Laurent, Roswell C. 

 Williams, Jr., Ernest Baylis and Henry W. Fowler were elected 

 contributors, and Charles W. Frost was elected a member. The 

 death of W. D. Kearfott, a contributor, was announced. The 

 purchase was made of a Bausch & Lomb Combined Balopticon, 

 suitable for the projection of lantern slides and opaque objects. 

 25 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The following officers and committee were elected to serve for 

 1918: 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director R. C. Williams, Jr. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn. 



Recorder E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Publication Qmnmittee E. T. Cresson, 



Philip P. Calvert, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr., Recorder. 



Botanical Section. — At the annual meeting of the Botanical 

 Section, held November 19, 1917, officers for the ensuing year 

 were elected as follows: 



Director Dr. Ida A. Keller. 



Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder Dr. John W. Eckfeldt. 



Conservator and Treasurer Stewarclson Brown. 



Stewardson Brown, Conservator. 



MiNERALOGicAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. — The Section held 

 three meetings with the usual interested attendance. Prof. Florence 

 Bascom discussed the Geology of Mt. Desert. Miss Emma Walter 

 called attention to remarkable erosion of limestone near Devault. 

 There was also discussion of isostasy and the Himalayas, and other 

 subjects. 



There were four field excursions, with an average attendance of 

 about seventeen. The parties visited: 1. The crystalline rocks 

 near Unionville and Northbrook, Chester County; 2. The crystalline 

 rocks near Rocky Run and Dismal Run, Delaware County; 3. The 

 Cambrian quartzites and the limestones between Westtown and 

 Brinton's Bridge, Chester County; 4. The limestone exposures 

 between Devault and Malvern, Chester County. 



The following were elected officers of the Section for 1918: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary...., W. B. Davis 



Treasurer , W. B. Davis. 



Conservator F. J. Keeley. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, Director. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Ornithological Section. — The Section has been active in pro- 

 moting Ornithological research at the Academy during the year. 

 The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the 

 building and many valuable specimens have been received through 

 the cooperation of these organizations. 



The details of work in the Ornithological department will be 

 found in the report of the Curators. 



At the annual meeting the following officers were elected for the 

 year 1918: 



Director Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary William A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



WiTMER Stone, Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors, and members of the 



Committee on Accounts, was held December 18,. 1917, with the fol- 

 lowing result: 



President Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D. 



John Cadwalader, A.M. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Curators Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 .Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Councillors to serve 



Three Years Charles B. Penrose, M.D., 



Charles Morris, 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D., 

 William E. Hughes, :M.D. 



Councillor to serve Un- 

 expired Term T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M. D., 

 Weaker Horstmann. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



COUNCIL FOR 1918. 



Ex-Officio.—^Simuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D., Edwin G. Conk- 

 lin, Ph.D., Sc.D., John Cadwalader, A.M., Edward J. Nolan, 

 M.D., Sc.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, 

 M.D. 



To serve three years. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., 

 Charles Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, 

 M.D. 



To serve two years. — Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D., George Spencer Morris. 



To serve one year. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Frank J. Keeley, 

 Walter Horstmann, T. Chalklev Palmer. 



Councillor George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections Frank J. Keeley. 



Custodian of Isaac Lea CoLLECTiON.Joseph Willcox. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Assistant in Library Furinan Sheppard Wilde. 



Aid in Archaeology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada, Allen. 



Taxidermist David McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Hechler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebly, 

 Adam E. Hechler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES, 1918. 



Finance. — ^Effingham B. Morris, John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin 

 S. Dixon, Walter Horstmann, and the Treasurer. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Publication. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Sc.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. 



Nolan, :\I.d!, Sc.D. 

 Library. — Henry Tucker, ^NI.D., George Vaux, Jr., Frank J. Keeley, 



Witmer Stone, A.]\I., Sc.D., Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Henry 



A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles ]Morris. James A. G. Rehn, George 



S. Morris. 



ELECTIONS IN 1917. 



The names of the members elected during 1917 will be found on 

 pages 1, 31, 82, 149, 206, 339 and 340. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1917. 



Mammals. 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum (for determination). Paratype of Mus 

 hawauensis Stone, Hawaiian Islands. 



H. W. Fowler. Skull of Dolphin {Delphinus delphis), Riverton, New 

 Jersej'. 



W. J. Fox. Skull oi Dolphin {Delphinus delphis) , Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



David McCadden. Skeleton of Muskrat {Ondatra zibethica), Pennsylvania. 



Samuel Mason. Five Rice Rats {Oryzomys palustris), Odessa, Delaware. 



Pennsylvania Game Commission. Skin of Mink (Miistela rison lutreocephala) , 

 Pennsylvania. 



Philadelphia Aquarium. Three Sea Lions {Zolophns calif ornianus) , Skins 

 and skulls. 



Purchased. Weasel {Putorius rioveboracensis) in winter pelage, Westtown, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Archiclaus p. Willets. Three House Mice {Mus musculus), New Jersey. 



Zoological Society of Phil.^delphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Mounted: Chimpanzee {Pan satyrus), Hainan Gibbon {Hylobates nasutns). 

 Skins and Skulls: White-crowned Monkey {Lasiopyga petronella), Brown 

 Macaque {Pithecus spedosus), Black-handed Spider Monkey {Ateles geoffroyi), 

 Yaguarundi Cat {Felis yagouaroundi), Raccoon-like Dog {Canis procyonoides) , 

 Philippine Deer (Rusa alfredi), Cape Hyrax {Procavia capensis), Patagonian 

 Cavy {Dolicholis patagonicus) , Great Anteater {M yrmecophaga tridpctyla) , 

 Lund's Opossum {Didelphys albiventris) , Opossum {Didelphys sp.). Skeletons: 

 Black Rhinoceros {Diceros bicornis), South African Giraffe {Giraffa camelo- 

 pardniis capensis), Eland {Taurotragus oryx). Skulls: Moustached Monkey 

 (Lasiopyga cephus), Anubis Baboon {Papio anubis). 



Birds. 



George W. Bassett. Sparrow Hawk {Falco sparverius), and four specimens 

 of Evening Grosbeak {Hesperiphona vespertina), New Jersey. 



Miss Helen Louise Coates. Great Horned Owl {Bubo virginianus) . 



Chas. Fearon. Cardinal Grosbeak {Cardinalis cardinalis). 



T. Hamson Gibson. Horned Grebe {Colymbus auritus), Wildwood, N. J. 



Mud Hole Gun Club. Shoveller Duck {Spatula clypeata), New Jersey. 



W. M. Pack. Yellow Rail {Coturnicops noveboracensis) , Pennsylvania. 



Mrs. Chas. J. Pennock. C. J. Pennock Collection of bii'd skins and eggs. 



Miss Town. Small collection of birds' eggs. 



Dr. H. R. Wharton. Snow Bunting {Plectrophenax nivalis) and Mallard 

 {Anas platyrhynchos) , Salem, New Jersey. 



Archiclaus P. Willets. Screech Owl {Megascops asio) and Red-winged 

 Blackbird {Agelaius phoeniceus), New Jersey. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



E. ^^'. WooLMAN. American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus) , Phila- 

 delphia. 



Mrs. Samuel Wright. Collection of local bird skins, made by the late 

 Samuel Wright. " ' 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared in the following 

 manner: Mounted: Condor {Sarcorhamphus gryphus). Skins: Black-footed 

 Penguin {Spheniscus demersus), Goliath Heron {Ardea golialh), Stanley 

 Crane {Tetrapteryx paradisea), Helmeted Guinea-fowl {Numida coronota), 

 Chattering Lorj' {Lorius garrulus), Blue-orbited Passerine Parrakeet {Psittacula 

 conspicillata), White-crowned Turacou {Turacus leucolophus), Great Barbet 

 {Megalcema virens), Great Bird of Paradise {Paradisea apoda), Painted 

 Bunting {Passerina ledaucheri), Tanager {Schistochlamys capislratus) . Skull 

 and Sternum: Wedge-tailed Eagle (Aquila audax). 



By Purchase. Three hundred specimens of Colombian Birds. Ninety-two 

 specimens of Hummingbirds. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Six nests and eggs of Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey birds and foiu- mounted birds. 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Arthur A. Baur. Portion of skin of Alligator {Alligator sp?), Guayaquil, 

 Equador. 



Jack Dorsett. Jar of reptiles and amphibians, North Carolina. 

 Philip Laurent. Skink {Eumeces sp.), Florida. 

 Bayard Long. Hyla picheringii, New Jersey. 



E. S. and W^. 1. Mattern and H. W. Fowler. Collection of amphibians, 

 Pennsylvania. 



S. N. Rhoads. Collection of reptiles and amphibians, Wilmington, N. C. 



A. F. Satterthwait. Four Cricket Frogs {Acris gryllus), Charleston, 

 Missouri. Three Frogs, near Charleston, Missouri. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Collection of reptiles and amphibians. South Caro- 

 lina. Collection of amphibians. New Jersey. Several reptiles and amphibians, 

 California and Arizona. 



J. F. Street. Virginia Snake {Virginia Valeria;), Virginia. 



Purchased. Collection of reptiles and amphibians obtained by D. E.. nar- 

 rower in Panama. 



Fishes. 



R. M. Abbott. Bottle of small fishes, South River, Maryland. 

 H H. Burton and H. W. Fowler. Jar of fishes, Pennsylvania. 

 Messrs. Corman amd Lipschultz. Thread Mackerel {Blepharis crinitus), 

 New Jersey. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Virginia. 



J. H. Ferriss. Eggs of darter, Illinois. 



Dr. W. E. Hughes. Two Brook Trout {Salvelinus fontinalis), Maine. 



W. T. Innes. Jar of aquarium fishes. 



F. J. Keeley. Blenny, Florida. 



Walter I. Mattern. Blue Sunfish {Lepomis incisor), Pennsylvania. 

 Jar of fishes, Maryland. 



E. S. and W. I. Mattern. Three collections of fishes, Pennsylvania. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



E. S. and W. I. Mattern and H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Penn- 

 sylvania and New Jersey. 



W. L. Paulin. Pterophylluni scalare, raised in Philadelphia. 

 Hartie I. Phillips. Dolphin {Coryphcena hippurus), New Jersey. 

 Dr. R. J. Phillips. Red Mullet {Upeneus), New Jersey. 

 Charles T. Ramsden. Young Heros tetracanthns, Cuba. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Jar of spawning brook lampreys (Entosphenus cepypterus) ^ 

 New Jersey. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Collection of fishes, South Carolina. 



H. E. Thompson and H. W. Fowler. Three jars of fishes, Pennsj'lvania. 



R. W. Wehrle. Six jars of fishes, Pennsylvania. 



Recent Mollusca. 



De. W. L. Abbott. Eurycratera dilatata Pfr., near Porte de Paix, Haiti. 



Jacob Aebly. Five trays of shells, New Jersey and Italy. 



Benjamin Albertson. Trivia europcea Mont., England. 



Charles H. Baker. Nine species of shells, Florida and Massachusetts. 



F. C. Baker. Six trays of shells, Oneida Lake, N. Y. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Alvania oldroydce Bart., S. Coronado Is., L. Cal. 



Dr. p. Bartsch. Two varieties oi Amphidy-omus maculifenis Shy., MindansiO. 



S. S. Berry. Thii-ty-six trays of shells. West America and Cuba. 



Dr. A. P. Brown. Four trays of shells, Antigua. 



Prof. W. A. and E. L. Bryan. Eight species of shells, Hawaiian Islands. 



H. C. BuRNUP. Three species of Truncatellina, S. Africa. 



Dr. p. p. Calvert. Unio complanatus Sol., Meredethtown, N. H. 



George W. Carpenter. One pearl. 



E. P. Chace Five trays of shells, California. 



C. E. Claghorn. Harpa major Bolten. 



George H. Clapp. Three species of shells, Alabama and Jamaica. 



W. F. Clapp. Six species of land shells, Peru. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. The type of Polygyra texasiana tillaudisa Ckll., Texas, 



C. M. Cooke. Seven trays of Hawaiian land shells. 

 Delos E. Culver. Five species of marine shells, Virginia. 

 J. Farquhar. Twelve species of African land shells. 



J. H. Ferriss. Two hundred and forty-two trays of shells, western America. 



J. H. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels. Sixty-two trays of shells, western America. 



H. W. Fowler. Twenty-one trays of shells, eastern America. 



Franklin Institute. (Deposited.) Malleus albus Lam. 



Lorraine S. Frierson. Four Unios, U. S. and Guatemala. 



S. G. Gordon. Twenty-seven trays of shells, eastern America. 



George M. Greene. Two trays of shells, Virginia. 



D. E. Harrower. (Purchased.) One hundred and thirteen trays of shells,. 

 Panama. 



Morgan Hebard. Eighteen trays of shells, Florida and Cuba. 



Adam Heckler. Crepidida aculeata Gm., from a sponge. 



Chas. Hedley. Sixteen trays of Australian land shells. 



Junius Henderson. Nineteen trays of shells, Colorado and Wyoming. 



A. A. HiNKLEY. Seven trays of shells, Arkansas and Mexico. 



H. VON Ihering. Two land shells, South America. 




1917. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Arthur Jacot. Twenty-two trays of shells, North Carohna and New York. 



C. W. Johnson. Viviparus inallcnlus Rve., near Boston, Massachusetts. 



F. J. Keeley. Ovula uniplicala Sby., Hawks Park, Florida. 

 Philip Laurent. Three trays of shells, Florida. 



Mrs. a. L. Letson. The type of Odo.^toinia leisonce Pils., Oahu. 



Bay.\rd Long. Forty-five trays of shells, America. 



J. G. Malone. Six species of shells, Oregon. 



E. S. Mattern and H. W. Fowler. Eight trays of shells. New Jersey and 

 Pennsylvania. 



E. S. and W. I. Mattern. Ten trays of shells, New Jersey, Pennsylvania 

 and Florida. 



E. H. Matthews. Two Australian marine shells. 



W. G. Mazyck. Six trays of Bullaria. 



D. N. McCadden. Three trays of shells, Maryland and New Jersey. 

 R. E. B. McKenney. Veronicella, Panama. 



Mrs. I. S. Oldroyd. Three trays of California shells. 



Free Ottemiller. Fifteen trays of shells, Pennsjdvania and Florida. 



W. H. Over. Thirty-five trays of shells. South Dakota. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. Squid eggs, New Jersey. 



Miss R. M. Pierce. Two marine shells, New Jersey. 



Dr. H. H. Pilsbry. Seven hundred and seventy-two trays of shells, Hawaiian 

 Islands, Cuba and Linited States. Two hundred and twenty-two trays of 

 shells, New Mexico. 



Princeton University. Two chitons, Porto Rico. 



Charles T. Ramsden. Sixteen trays of Cuban shells. 



Russell C. Rosenfelt. Pisidium streatori St., S. Worthington, Massa- 

 chusetts. ' 



A. F. Satterthwait. Thirteen trays of shells, Arkansas and Missouri. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. Ceratodiscus ramsdeni Pils., near Guantanamo, Cuba. 



H. H. Smith. One hundred and seventy-two trays of shells, Alabama and 

 Tennessee. 



Maxwell Smith. Thii'ty trays of land shells, Europe and Colorado. 



G. W. H. Soelner. Veronicella cubensis Pfr., Isle of Pines, Cuba. 

 SowERBY and Fulton. (Purchased.) One hundred and ninety-three trays 



of shells. 



Irwin Spalding. One Pterodiscus, Oahu. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Two species of shells, New Jersey and North Caro- 

 lina. 



D. Thaanum. One hundred and fifty-two trays of Hawaiian marine shells. 

 Mrs. L. D Thompson. Sixteen trays ofNew England shells. 



W. ToLLERY. Five species of marine shells, England. 



H. Trudell and S. G. Gordon. Four land shells. North Carolina. 



E. G. Vanatta. Planorbis corneus rubra Bs., from an aquarium in Phila- 

 delphia, Pa. 



Bryant Walker. Five trays of west American shells. A specimen of 

 Holospira bartschi. 



E. M. Walker. Arion circuinscriplus Jh., Toronto, Canada. 



B. Walker and H. F. Wilson. Two land shells, Wisconsin. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Miss H. N. Wardle. Seven species of land shells, Pike County, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



R. H. Wehrle. Two trays of Sphcerium, Indiana County, Pennsylvania. 

 Joseph Willcox. Two marine shells, Peru. 



H. W. Wenzel. Polygyra abolabris Say, Southern Pines, N. Carolina. 

 George Willett. Ischnochiton willetti Perry, Forrester Island, Alaska. 

 Miss Helen Winchester. Two trays of shells. New Jersey. 



Insects. 



W.L.Abbott. One hundred and nineteen insects, Hayti; twenty insects, 

 Tortuga. 



Jacob Aebly. Seven insects, Pennsylvania. 



American Museum of Natural History. Fifty-two Dermaptera, West 

 Indies, Mexico, British Guiana; eight Lepidoptera, United States. 



Anastasio Alfaro. One hundred and seven Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



F. E. Blaisdell. Onms cupreonitens (Paratypes), California. Eight Eleodes, 

 California. 



J. G. BoNNiwELL. Thirty-one Lepidoptera, Florida. 



A. F. Braun. Thirty-two Nepticula, United States; thirty-four Lithocolletes, 

 United States. 



H. H. Brehme. Six moths, United States. 



Malcolm Burr. One hundred and twenty-nine Orthoptera, Brazil. 



P. P. Calvert. Nine insects, Mt. Lake, Virginia. 



D. M. Castle. Five Blattida?, Florida. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Eight Orthoptera, Mississippi; New York. 



Cornell University. Eight Dermaptera, New York; Mississippi. Phlugiola 

 redenhaclieri , Brazil. 



Erich Daecke. Four Ceuthophilus, Pennsylvania. 



W. T. Davis. Six Homoptera, Arizona, New Mexico. 



Miss K. Dixon. One moth, Pennsylvania. 



H. C. Fall. Seven types of Malachida?, LTnited States. 



J. H. Ferris. Caddis fly nests, California. 



Henry Fox. One hundred and one Orthoptera, Virginia; ten Orthoptera, 

 Indiana. 



W. J. Fox. Two insects, Philadelphia. 



C. W. Frost. Three beetles, Philadelphia. 



E. H. Gibson. One hundred and thirty-five Hemiptera. 

 W. H. Githens. One Orthopteron. 



C. B. Gooderham. Twenty-nine Orthoptera, Nova Scotia. 

 Mrs. F. I. GowEN. One beetle, Philadelphia. 



G. M. Greene. Four Coleoptera, United States. 



S. G. Gordon. Seven Orthoptera; one Cychrus, North Carolina. 



FoRDYCE Grinnell, Jr. Fifty-seven Orthoptera, California. 



O. A. Johannsen. Eleven Anthomyidse, United States. 



Henry Kraemer. Illustrations of early stages of Coccus cadi. 



Bayard Long. Collection of insects from New Jersey; one beetle, Canada. 



D. E. Harrower. Twenty-three insects. Canal Zone, Panama. 



Morgan Hebard. Fifty-nine Orthoptera, United States, Central and South 

 America. One hundred and seven Dermaptera, Arizona, Mexico and Jamaica. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



One hundred and eight Ortlioptera, Mexico and Central America. Eighty-five 

 Orthojitera, Mexico. Twenty-three Orthoptera, Costa Rica. Seven insects, 

 United States; seven insects, Georgia. Thirty-seven insects, seven Arachnida, 

 five Myriopoda, Africa. Ten Orthoptera, Arizona. Ninety-seven earwigs, 

 Jamaica and Mexico. Three butterflies, Florida. Thirty-four Coleoptera, 

 United States. 



J. C. HuGUENiN. Eight butterflies, California. 



E. P. Hewlett. Ten moths, California. 



C. H. Lankester. Fifty-seven Orthoptera. Costa Rica. 



Philip Laurent. Fifteen Orthoptera, Florida; one Orthopteron, New Jersey; 

 eighteen Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



Leland Stanford University. Seventy-eight Gryllidse, Brazil. 



R. A. Leussler. Sixty-seven Lepidoptera, Nebraska. 



J. E. M.^soN. Ten Cecropia cocoons, Philadelphia. 



L. W. Mengel. Eleven Argynnis, Idaho; one Heliconius urania, British 

 Guiana. 



C. E. Mitchel. Twent}''-one Hymenoptera, North America. 



Mitseum or Comparative Zoology. One paratype of Pseudisolahis elegans 

 Hebard, India. 



Robert K. Nabotjrs. Series of fifty-six Paratettix texanus illustrating the 

 genetic studies of the donor. 



R. Ottolengui. Eleven Pamphila, California. 



H. A. Pilsbry. One Acridid, New Mexico. 



Ptjrch.^lSed. Two hundred and seventy-nine Orthoptera, Madagascar. 



R. F. Parker. Four Sarcophidse, LTnited States. 



W. D. Robinson. One Odonat, Philadelphia. 



A. F. Satterthwait. Several insects, Charleston, Missouri. 



Henry Skinner. Ten Lepidoptera, California; thirty-eight insects, Wayne 

 Countj^, Pennsj'lvania. 



WiTMER Stone. Five hundred Orthoptera, New Jersey; thirty-seven Orthop- 

 tera, South Carolina; eleven insects, Maryland. 



A. F. Swain. Eleven slides of Aphididse, California. 



United States National Museum. Thirty-nine Orthoptera, Brazil and 

 Mexico; thirteen Dermaptera, Panama. 



H. B. Weiss. Two Hymenoptera, New Jersey. 



P. W. Whiting. Ninety-one Orthoptera, Pennsylvania and New England. 



R. C. Williams, Jr. Forty-one slides genitalia of Thanaos; fifty-five moths 

 and butterflies. United States. 



Wisconsin Experiment Station. Seventeen Orthoptera, Wisconsin. 



Henry Wormsbacher. Three Lepidoptera, Ohio. 



Invertebrates. 

 (Other than Insects and MoUusks.) 

 Academy Expedition to Hawaiian Islands. Four crustaceans, six corals, 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



G. W. Carpenter. Two specimens of red coral. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of crustaceans and spiders, Virginia. 



W. J. Fox. One isopod. New Jersey. 



Free Museum of Science and Art. One Coronula regina Darwin. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



D. E. Harrower. Polypus, Colon, Panama. 



Adam Hechler. Coral from gponge. 



F. J. Keeley. Isopod from tail of Silver Whiting. 



Chas. La Wall. Two bottles of shrimps {Crago septemspinosus), Xew 

 Jersey. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry. Hermit Crab, La Jolla, California. Fourteen speci- 

 mens from Hawaiian Lslands. 



Purchased. One hundred and fifteen traj^s of invertebrates. Pacific Ocean 

 beach, Panama. 



A. F. Satterthwait. One vial of leeches and one earthworm, near Charles- 

 ton, Missouri. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Collection of crayfishes. South Carolina. Collection 

 of crabs, New Jersey. 



D. Thaanum. Three barnacles, one lot of coral and one lot of brachiopods, 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



U. S. National Museum. Coronula diadcma L., and Conchodeiina aurita I-., 

 from the lip of a whale from Newfoundland. 



C. M. Wheatley CoLLEcnoN (Deposited). Two gorgonians. 

 Joseph Willcox. Two trays invertebrates from Peru. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Academy Expedition to Haw'aiian Islands. Four fossils, Hawaiian 

 Islands. 



Delos E. Culver. Six Miocene fossil shells, Buckroe Beach, Va. 



Dr. John Evans. Three trays of fos.sil Area, Chiriqui, Panama. 



H. W. Fowler. Seven trays of fossils, Maryland and Pennsylvania. 



Bayard Long. Collection of fossil shells, New Jersey. 



Dr. J. P. Moore. Two fossils, Texas and L^tah. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Six trays of fossils. New Mexico and Hawaiian Islands. 



Lloyd B. Smith. Fortj^-seven trays of fossils, Cenizas, Colombia. Ten 



trays of fossils, Haiti. 



D. Thaanum. Ostrea retusa Pease, Oahu, H. I. 



H. Vendreys. Two trays of fossils, Jamaica. 

 Bryant Walker. Six trays of Pliocene fossils, California. 

 W. W. Webster. Area ehiriquiensis Gabb (fossil), Haiti. 

 Jos. Willcox. Four fossil shells, Peru. 



Minerals. 



Alfred C. Bates. Flint geode in chalk, England. 



MoRRELL G. Biernbaum. Xanthosiderite, Lake Superior. 



Arthur Bratt. Fragments of minerals. 



Clark Hill. Concretion, Ohio. ^ 



Chas. W. Hoadley. Specimen of Datolite, Paterson, New Jersey. 



John Holzman. Diabantite, Prehnite, Laumontite, Thaumasite. Paterson, 

 New Jersey. 



Henry M. Kolb. Collection of Lake Superior minerals. 



John H. McFadden. Geological specimens, Shaokleton Antartic Expe- 

 dition. 



V. W. Field. Mimetite, Willemite, Utah. 




1917.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Samuel G. Gordon. Molybdenite, Sussex Co., N. J.; Baddeleyite, Brazil; 

 Cuprite, Hematite, Piedmontite, South Mountain, Adams Co., Pa.; Siderite, 

 Argentine, Laumontite, Stilbite, Ward's Quarry, Delaware Co., Pa.; Quartz 

 (a sixty pound crystal) Rollandville, Philadelphia; Pyrrhotite, Lansdowne, Pa. ; 

 Genthite, Actinolite, Gladwyn, Pa. Asbestos, Easton, Pa.; Cacoxenite, Hel- 

 lertown, Pa.; Stevensite (6 specimens), Pectolite, Gothite, Analcite, Thauma- 

 site, Gypsum, Mesolite, Datolite, Anhydrite, Paterson, N. J.; Sphalerite, Phila- 

 delphia; Specular Hematite, Phoenixville, Pa.; Quartz, Phocnixville, Pa.; Cro- 

 cidolite, Philadelphia; Argentine, Ameha C. H., Va.; Zoisite, Calcite, Stilpnome- 

 lane. Falls of French Creek, Pa.; collection of volcanic rocks from Sussex Co., 

 i\. J.; four Pennsylvania and New Jersey geological specimens, illustrating 

 slickensides, and dikes. 



William Maddrens. Specimen of Calcite, Sphalerite and Pyrite, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



R. A. Mercer. Babingtonite, New Jersey. 



Dr. S. W. Morton. Collection of minerals. 



Frederick Oldach. Specimen of Rutile and Beraunite, Pennsylvania. 



Frederick Oldach and S. G. Gordon. Quartz, Rolandville, Pa. 



Harry Warford. A specific gravity balance, Epidote and Barite, Penn- 

 sj'lvania. 



Harry Warford and S. G. Gordon. Ilmenite, Pennsylvania. 



H. L. WiLLiG. Four crystals of Limonite pseudomorph after Pyrite, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



. Plants. 



W. M. Benner. Sixteen sheets of local plants. 



Dr. George N. Best. Collection of New Jersey and Pennsylvania plants. 



Botanical Section. Ten hundred and thirty-seven sheets New England 

 plants. 



O. H. Brown. Fifty-three local plants. 



Harlan S. Gatchell. Herbarium of the late Joel J. Carter. 



Bayard Long. Nine sheets of local plants. 



Bayard Long and Harold St. John. One hundred and five sheets of local 

 plants. 



W. H. Leibelsperger. Thirty-six sheets of local plants. 



Arthur Leed'. Specimen of Ardostaphylos. 



C. S. Mann. Specimen of Bartram Oak. 



St. Louis Botanical Garden. Eight hundred and eighty-two sheets from 

 the Mississippi Valley. (In exchange). 



J. P. Otis. Twenty-seven sheets of local plants. 



H. W. Pretz. Four hundred and seven sheets of local plants. 



S. S. Van Pelt. Four local specimens. 



U. S. National Herbarium. Three hundred and fifteen sheets, mainly from 

 the Canary Islands. 



Percy Wilson, through Bayard Long. Thirty-seven sheets of local plants. 



F. W. Pennell and Bayard Long. Fourteen sheets of local plants. 



Archeology, Etc. 



Charles Barton. Head of an Egyptian king, Thebes. 

 Ed^vaud H. Burr. Collection of Indian axes, spearheads, etc. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Ellwood C. Erdis. Obsidian points, and potsherds from surface and ruins 

 in the Apache National Forest, Arizona. 



E. S. GiNNANE. Potsherd and Indian artifacts of iron ore, Blount County, 

 Alabama. 



Frank J. Keeley. Fragment of heavy glass vessel from an Indian mound, 

 Hawks Park, Volusia County, Florida. 



Clarence B. Moore. Additions to the C. B. Moore collection from burial 

 mounds and cemetery sites along the lower Mississippi, and in southern Alabama 

 and Georgia, and north-west Florida. 



Estate of Benjamin Sharp. Collection of Eskimo ethnographica, including 

 bows, arrows and quiver, drills and bow, cord drills, seal club, knives, needles, 

 carving tools, snow-knives, toy lamp and dish, child's skin shoes, sealskin b(jot. 

 skin cup and vessel, bucket handle, toggles, etc. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



36"; 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED OR 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1917. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synomjms by 



italic numerals. 



Abramis crysoleucas 110, 117, 123 



Abudefduf mauritii 133 



Acacia costaricens s 205 



Acantharchus pomotis 112 



Aehirus fasciatus 115, r26 



lineatus 136 



Acipenser sturio 122 



Acirsa corrugata 300 



microst riat a 299 



Aclis (Amblyspira) bartschiana.... 174 



polita 179 



Acrj'dium femur-nibrum 270 



Acteocina honoluluensis 216 



sandwicensis 215, 216 



subbullata 150 



." toon subtornatilis 150 



lornatilis 150 



Ai'tinocyclus 338 



ralfsii..... 338 



Adeorbis carinaia 1S4 



Jiloloplus crassus 269 



Aglaja nuttalli 214 



Agriolimax campestris 103 



campestris montana 58 



Agroecotettix modestus 263, 274 



Aidemona azteca 264, 274- 



Albula vulpes 128 



Alcyna 209 



kapiolaniae 210, 212 



kuhnsi 209-211 



kuhnsi humerosa 211 



lineata 210, 212, 213 



rubra 210, 212 



striata 209, 210 



s. subangulata 210, 213 



■flainmulata 213 



s. virgata 213 



AUodahlia macropyga 246 



Alopias vulpinus 108 



Alosa sapidissima ,...109, 122 



Alutera punctata s..ll3, 135 



Ambloplites rupestris 121 



Amblystoma altamirani 11 



conspersum 10 



Amblystoma epixanthum 11 



microstomum 11 



platineum 10 



Ambystoma 9, 15 



altamirani 11 



bicolor ; 8 



conspersum 10 



epixanthum 11 



fuscum 10 



j offer sonianum 10, 23 



j. fuscum 10 



j. laterale 10' 



j. platineum 10 



laterale 10 



macrodactylum ,10, 11 



microstomum 11 



nebulosum 8 



opacum 9 



porphyriticum 12 



punctatum 9 



stejnegeri 10, 11 



talpoideum 10 



tenebi'osum 11 



tigrinum 8 



Ameiurus catus 123 



nebulosus 110, 117, 123 



Amiatus calvus 109 



Amnicola cincinnatiensis 77 



limosa 75 



Amphiuma means 7 



tridactyla 7 



Anachis gracilicostata 168 



Anchovia macrolepidota 130 



mitchilli 123 



Ancistrogaster 249 



aterrimus 249 



kervi lei 248 



Ancylus crassus 51 * 



Angelichthys ciliaiis 135 



Anguilla rostrata Ill, 119, 124 



Anisolabis ambigua 234 



Anisotremus virginicus 132 



Anodonta californiensis 73 



nuttalliana 51, 73, 77 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Anodonta wahlametensij 57, 73, 75 



Anomia ephippium 193 . 



gabbi 193 j 



Apeltes quadracus 121, 124 ' 



Aplexa hypnorum 56, 58, 71, 72 



Area (Scapharca) coccopleura 188 



consobrina 38, 186 j 



(Scapharca) copiosa 186 



cuneolus 191 



cyclica 189 



(Scapharca) devexa 187 



dohiticosta 188 



idiodon 191 



(Scapharca) intumulata 187 



perf aceta 190 



pompomiana 190 



(Scapharca) proletaria 188 



(Scapharca) sobrina 186 



tolepia crassicardinis 189 



t. saxea 189 



t. scapularis 189 



Archosargus unhnaculatus...' 132 



Ashmunella binneyi 88, 89, 91 



cockerelli 88,89,90,92 



c. argenticola 91 



c. perobtusa 89, 91 



mendax 88,89,92 



mogoUonensis 88, 89, 92, 93 



tetrodon 88, 89 



t. animorum 89 



t. fragilis 89 



Astandes 298 



densatus 298,299 



Astrsea domingensis 184 



Astralium longispinum 184 



Astroscopus guttatus 115 



Atherina argentinensis.... 308 



Atherinella 306 



Atherinichthys 307,308 



pachylepis 306 



Atherinops 305, 306 



regis 305 



Atys cinctorii lo2 



cornuta 217,219 



costulosa 218 



cyhndrica 218 



debilis ...217-219 



hyaUna 218 



kuhnsi 216 



naucum strigata 217 



parallela 218 



semistriata..: 217 



sulculorum 152 



Aulacodiscus 335, 337, 33S 



argus 335 



formosus 335, 336 



oregonus 335 



rogersii 335 



AuUscus oamaruensis 335 



Austromenidia 307 



Autodax 13, 14, 15 



Autodax iecanus 23 



lugubris 23 



Axinsea pennacea 192 



sericata 192 



Baudiella chrysura 113, 125 



ronchus 133 



Balistes caroUnensis 113 



f orcipatus 278 



f uscatu.s 278 



Barytettix 263 



crassus 264 



peninsula? 262, 264, 274 



BasiHchthys 307 



Batrachoides surinamensis 136 



Batrachosep.s 13-15 



attenuatus 26 



major 26 



nigriventris 26 



pacificus 26 



Blennius lanceolatus 277 



Boleichthys fusiformis 112 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi 112, 122 



125 



Boltenella 285 



excellens 285,286 



Bothus diagrammus 276 



diaphanus 277 



punctatus 277 



rhombus 277 



Brachydeuterus corvinaeformis 132 



Brachygadus minutus 276 



Brevoortia tyrannus 122 



Bulla ferruginosa ^ ' 



Bullaria peaseana 2^i 



Bullina scabra 2H 



vitrea • 2H 



Csecum aneUifer 172 



annulatum 172_ 



Callyodon aracanga 135 



margarita 133 



trispinosus 135 



Caloptenus differentialis 269 



regalis 269 



Calotettix 262 



bicoloripes 262 



brevispinis 262 



flavopictus 262 



obscurus 262^ 



Campylacantha lampronotata 265 



similis 265,274 



Cancellaria brevis 163 



dariena 32 



gabbiana 163 



(Trigonostoma) insularis 163 



Caninoa 279 



ciereghini 279 



Caninotus 279 



Caranx bartholoma^i 131 



crysos • 131 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



369 



Caranx hippos 131 



latus 132 



Carcharhinus commersoni 279 



Carcharias tauni.s 108 



Cardita scabricostata 197 



Carinifex nowberryi 57, 58, 74, 75 



Cassis monilifera 34 



datostomus commersonnii ...111, 119, 



123 



nigiicans 119, 124 



Centiojiomus albus 278 



luteus 278 



Centropristis strialus 112 



Cephalotettix parvulus 254 



pilosiis 254, 274 



Cha^todipteru? faber 113, 135 



Chffitodon capistratus 135 



ocellatus 135 



Chama arcinella 197 



Chasuiodes bosquianus 126 



Chemnitzia varicosa 316 



Chilomycterus antennatus 136 



schoepfi 114 



Chione primigenia 199 



santodomingensis 199 



socia 199 



Chiora?ra dalli 137-147 



leonina 138, 147 



Chironectes vai'iegatus 278 



Chirostoma 307,308 



Chloroscombvus chi-vsiirus 132 



Chloriis ! 275 



Chondrotus 9 



Chrysallida angusta 176 



Circulus domingensis 184 



striatus 1S4 



Citharichthys arenaceus 136 



Clathuvella arnica... 158 



Cochlicopa lubrica 105 



Codakia thaanumi 332 



Collonia variabilis 207 



Colpichthys 305 



regis 305 



Conalcaja 263 



crassa 264, 274 



huachiicana 263 



miguelitana 263, 274 



neomexicana 264, 275 



truncatipennis 264, 274 



Conodon nobilis 132 



Conoibis mcnairyensis 280 



Conus semulator 32 



berghausii 161 



cedo-nulli ;.. 161 



oonsobrinus 160 



c. ultiinus 160 



furvoides brachys 158 



gabbi 162 



gaza 32 



imitator 32 



larvatus 163 



26 



Conus longitudinalis 160 



molis 32 



pernodosus 162 



perlepidus ; 1S9 



planiliratus 159 



porcellus 161 



proteus 32 



simplicissimus 161 



trisculptus 160 



xenicus 159 



Coscinodiscus 335 



Cottus gi-acilis 115, 122 



Crassatellites (Crassinella) dolatu.^ 196 



(Crassinella) microdelta 196 



Crenella diuturna 195 



divaricata 195 



ornatior 195 



rota 195 



Crenilabrus ocellatus 277 



Creonella 302 



triplicata 332,303 



Crypt obranchus alleganiensis 8 



fuscus 8 



Cuspidaria gabbi 195 



Cyclina cyclica 200 



Cyclinella cyclica domingensis 200 



Cyclocercus 255 



accola 258 



gracilis •. 257 



Cyclostrema striata 184 



Cynoscion acoupa 132 



nebulosus 113 



regalis 11,3, 125 



Cj^rinodon variegatus Ill, 124 



Cyprinus carpio 119, 123 



Dactylopterus volitans 136 



Dactylotum 253,273 



Dasyatis say 109 



Dasyscirtus olivaceous 274 



Dentalium cartagenense 37 



sagittarii 185 



solidissimum 37 



Desmognathus 13-17 



brimleyorum 22 



carolinensLs 18 



fusca. 16, 18,22,23 



f. auriculata 18, 22 



monticola 17, 18 



nigra 21 



ochrophsea 17, 18, 22 



quadrimaculata 17, 18, 22 



Diclu-oplus notatus 252, 274 



Diemictylus 15 



asper 28 



montandoni 28 



palmatus 28 



pyrogaster 28 



rusconii 28 



torosus ■ 28 



viridescens 27 




370 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



'Diemictylus V. meridionalis 28 



vittatus 28 



Didon hystrix 114 



pilosus 114 



Diplodonta dedecorus 198 



Discopsis (?) naso 184 



Divaricella proletaiia 198 



Dorosoma cepedianum.... 123 



Doru lineare 246 



luteipenne 246 



Dosinia azuana 200 



cyclica 200 



Drillia callistopleura ; 157 



callistura 154 



elocata 153 



esculenta 156 



foveolata 157 



gatunensis 32 



henekeni 158, 155 



hexapleura 155 



ischnatracta 154 



lissotropis 157 



1. dorsuosa 157 



1. perpolita 157 



mimula 156 



orthopleui'a 156 



scala 155 



sororcula 153 



subgibbosa 153 



Echinochama trachyderma 197 



Ecphora 293 



proquadricostata 293 



Eledone verrucosa 2-5 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 112, 125 



Eparchus burri 249 



Epinephelus mystacinus 132 



striatus 132 



Epiphragmophora callistoderma... 47 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus 119, 124 



Esox americanus HI, 119, 124, 278 



lucius , 278 



phaleratus 278 



reticulatus Ill, 119, 124, 278 



tredecemlineatus 278 



Euborellia ambigua 234 



annulipes 234 



janeirensis 233 



scudderi 233 



Eucinostomus gula 133 



harengulus 133 



pseudogula 133 



Euconulus fulvus 103 



fulvus alaskensis 53, 54. 58, 62, 



64,65,71,75 



Eulabus saramaccensis 233 



Eulamia commersonii 127 



milberti 109, 122 



porosus 127 



Eulima acanthyllis 225 



aoicularis : 183 



Eulima aciculata 222 



arcuata 220 



brevis 222 



conoidalis 221,225 



exilis 223 



inflexa 222 



labiosa 221,222 



nitidula 226 



opaca 225 



peasei 228,229 



pisorum 223 



pusilla ; 223 



robusta 182 



rosea 226 



sandvichensis 226 



solida 222,225 



venusta 224 



vitrea 224 



Eupomotis gibbosus 278 



Eurystole 306 



Exoglossum maxillingua....llO, 119, 123 



Falsifusus mesozoicus 284 



Felichthys filamentosus 131 



marinus 131 



Flesus flesus 277 



Fluminicola fusca..51, 53, 57, 58, 60, 67, 



74-76 



hindsi.. 74 



nuttalliana 74 



seminalis 74, 75 



Forcipula despinosa 234 



pugnax 234 



quadrispinosa 234-236 



trispinosa 234 



Forficelisia cui-vicauda 240 



Forficesila annulipes 234 



xanthopus 234 



Forficula arachidis 245 



auricularia 246 



hawaiensis. 245 



linetu'is 246 



luteipenne 246 



macropyga ; 246 



percheron 232 



riparia 234 



Fundulus diaphanus Ill, 119, 124 



heteroolitus macrolepidotus.... Ill, 



124 



lucifE Ill, 124 



majalis Ill, 124 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Ill 



Gastrocopt a ashmuni 1 04 



pellucida hordeacella 104 



pilsbryana 104 



quadridens 104 



Gastropterus 307 



Geotriton 12, 14, 15 



carbonarius 21 



fuscus 12, 19 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



Gerres rhombeus 133 



Glycymeris diffidentiae 192 



jamaicensis 40 



lloydsmithi 39 



santodomingensis 192 



trilobicosta 39 



tumef actus 38 



Gobiesox strumosus 125, 126 



virgatulus 126 



Gobiosoma bosc 126 



Gobius aterrimus 277 



niger 277 



Gouldia martinicensis 196 



Gymnothorax funebris 131 



ocellatus 131 



Gyrinophilus 12, 14-16 



danielsi 18,19 



maculicaudus 20 



porphyriticus 12, 16-19 



Hadropterus peltatus 121 



Hsemulon flavolineatum 132 



parra 132 



ilagenius brevistylus 205 



Haminea aperta oahuensis 219 



crocata 214 



curta tomaculum 219 



galba 214 



pusilla 214 



sandwichensis 214 



Helicodiscus aiizonensis 102 



Helminthoglypta 47 



Hemiacirsa cretacea 301 



Hemidactylium 13-16 



scutatum 19, 26 



Hemisalamandra cristata 27 



Hepatus bahiamus 135 



hepatus 135 



Heptoglossa 13-15 



Hesperotettix meridionalis 265, 274, 



275 



pratensis 265 



speciosus 265 



viridus 265,275 



Hipponix otiosa 173 



Histrio tumidus 278 



Holocentrus adscensionis 131 



ruber 277 



Holospira cockerelli 86, 87, 102 



regis 102 



Hyalodiscus maximus 336 



subtilis ...'. ...: 336 



Hybognathus nuolialis regius 123 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis 119, 123 



Hydatina amplustre 214 



phvsis 214 



Hyllus' 281 



callilateras .:;..:.,.;..281, 282 



coloratus ',...... 283 



Hyperlia .,.......:,.; 227 



Ilisha harroweri 128 



Isurus tigris 109 



Kirtlandia 306 



vagrans 124 



Kleter aterrimus 249 



Kronia 308 



Labia annulata 240 



arcuata 240, 2^0, 241 



barberi 239 



bilineata 239 



curvicauda 240 



dorsalis 243 



insularis r 243 



modesta ^45, 243 



nodifer..... 240,241 



pictipennis 232, 2JtS 



trinitatis 240,^45 



Labidura quadrispinosa 236 



riparia 234 



xanthopus 234 



Labiosa (Rsta) gabbi 202 



Lachnolaimus maximus 133 



Laetophrys tricornis 136 



trigonus 136 



Lagocephalus lasvigatus 114 



pachycephalus 136 



Lancella 316 



Larimus breviceps 132 



Leda acuta 185 



extricata 185 



Leiostomus xanthurus 113, 125 



Leiostraca distorta 228. 



metcalfei 227 



pyramidalis 224 



Lepidopyga cseruliigularis 203 



liUiffi 204 



Lepomis auritus 112, 121, 125 



Leptecheneis neucrates 115 



Leptocephalus conger Ill 



Leptoxis fusca 75 



Leuciscus vandoisulus 117, 123 



Leurognathus 13-15 



marmoratus 18, 21 



Linguajlapsus 9 



Lirosoma cretacea 288 



Litocosmia 247,249 



roraimse ; 247 



Lophius piscatorius 115 



Lophopsetta maculata 115 



Lucania parva Ill, 124 



Lucina antillarum 197 



crenulata 198 



dentata .'........-..... 198 



maurya? 198 



Lutianus analis ... 132 



flavus 277 



synagris 132 



I>ymn8ea apicina solida 51, 52 



bulimoides cockerelli 60 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tDec, 



Lymnaea catascopium 75 



hinkleyi 52 



humilis modicella 51, 53, 59, 69 



72, 75, 76 



h. rustica 51, 52 



jacksonensis 52 



obrussa 59, 75 



proxima ...52, 55-57, 60, 65, 71, 72, 



75,76 



stagnalis 73, 74 



s. apressa 56-58, 73-76 



s. wasatchensis 65, 73 



tra.skii 60, 67, 77 



utahensis 56, 58, 74, 75 



Lyosphsera globosa 114, 115 



Malea elliptica 169 



goliath 170 



Manculus 12, 14, 15 



quadridigitatus 18, 21 



remifer 18 



Margaritana margaritifera 60, 73 



Marginella latissima 33 



mediocris 32 



nugax 165 



M egalobat rachus maximus 8 



Melanella acanthyllis 225 



acicula 223-225 



aciculata 222 



astuta 182 



bryani.... 309 



conoidalis 225 



cumingi medipacifica 221 



gabbiana 183 



ima 311 



inflexa 221 



kahoolawensis 225 



kanaka 310 



labiosa 221 



letsonae 311 



lunata 312 



major 220 



mimus 310 



opaca 225 



pyramidella 222 



robillardiana 220 



solida 225 



thaanumi 220,221 



vafra 222 



Melanoplus arizonae 272 



atlanis 271,272 



bivittatus 274 



brownii 273 



cancri 274 



cinereus cyanipes 273, 275 



complanatipes 273, 275 



corpulentus 269, 275 



cimeatus 271 



cyanipes 273 



desultorius insignis 266, 274 



differentialis 269,274 



Melanoplus discolor 268 



elongatus 272,275 



femur-rubrum 270, 275 



flabellifer 271,272 



flavidus 272 



geniculatus 254 



glaucipes 274 



inornatus 268 



lakinus 270,275 



marculentus 270 



meridonalis 274 



mexicanus mexicanus 271, 275 



nitidus 261,26/, 



palmeri 272,275 



picturatus 275 



pictus brownii 273, 275 



regalis 269,275 



scitulus 265,274 



seleetus 275 



sonorse 270 



spretis 272 



sumichrasti 275 



thomasi 269,274 



variabilis 253 



M elongena orthacantha 168 



Membras 306 



Menestho clathrata 182 



Menidia 306,307 



beryllina Ill, 124 



menidia notata 124 



Menticirrhus saxatilis 113 



Mesogonistius chaetodon 112 



Metalabis saramaccensis 233 



Metis efferta 201 



postrema 202 



Metulella dominicensis 169 



Micromelo guamensis 214 



Micropogon undulatus 113, 125 



Micropterus dolomieu 112, 121 



salmoides 121, 125 



Microvostox basalis 238 



bilineata 239 



Murex gatunensis 34 



pomum 34 



Mitra longa 32 



mesolia 166 



tortuosella 165 



t. frater 166 



Mixocosmia 247 



Monochirus hispidus 277 



Morone americana 112, 125, 278 



Morua capelanus 276 



Moschites challengeri 3,4 



charcoti 4 



verrucosa 2-6 



Mucronalia nitidula 226 



ovata 226 



rosea 226 



sandvichensis 226 



Mugil cephalus Ill 



curema Ill 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



373 



Musculium rykholti 65 



Mustelus mustelus 109 



Myliobatis freminvillii 109 



Natica finitima 173 



Neaera alternata 195 



ornatissima 195 



Necturus maculosus 7 



piiuctatus S 



Neritina bryana; 330 



Netrosoma fusiforme 252, 274 



nisropleura 252, 274 



uniforniis 252 



Neurergiis crocatus 27 



Niso sandwichensis 229 



Notropis bifrenatus 117, 123 



chalybffius 110, 118 



cornutus 110, 118, 123 



hudsonius amarus 118, 123 



photogenis amoenus 118, 123 



procne 117, 123 



whipplii analostanus 110, 118 



Nudivagus 296 



simplicus 296,297 



Ocyurus chrysurus 132 



Odontesthes 308 



Odostomia (Odostomidea) bartsoh- 



iana 182 



(Eulinast.oma) bathyraphe 180 



(Goniodostomia) circumvinc- 



ta 181 



rlathrata 183 



(Parthenina?) clyclocephala .... 181 



(Chrvsallida) duHs ' 182 



(Evalina) eclecta 322 



e. nematoderma 322 



(Evalina) gracilis 321 



(Odostomia gulicki 324 



(Evalina) haleiwensis 321 



(Odostomia) ingloria 178 



(Odostomia) kahoolawensis... 323 



letsona? 323 



(Odostomia) loxocephala 324 



myrmefoon 179 



(r)dostomelIa) patricia 317 



(Miralda) paulbartschi 319 



polita 179 



(Nesiodostomia) prima 325 



(Miralda?) pupu 320 



(Eulimastoma) pyrgulop.sis . . 179 



(Nesiodostomia) quarta 326 



san todomingensis ■ 179 



(Miralda) sropulonim 319 



(Nesiodostomia) secunda 325 



fChrysallida) stearnsiella 318 



(Goniodostomia) superans 180 



(Cvclodostomia) suta 322 



(Miralda) syrtites 318 



(Nesiodostomia) tertia 325 



(Evalea?) vexator....._ 180 



(Evalina) waikikiensis 320 



I ffidalionotus jucundus 275 



CEdipina 12, 14, 15 



lineolus ^. 21 



CEdipus. 12, 14, 15 



variegatus 21 



Oliva cylindrica 164 



dimidiata 165 



proavia 164 



sayana immortua 33 



Ophichthus gomesii 130 



Ophidion barbatum 277 



Opisthocosmia bogotensis 237 



burri 2^9 



Opisthonema oglinum 128 



Opsanus tau 115. 125 



Oreohelix binneyi 66, 69 



carinifera 45 



concentrata 95 



rooperi 44, 52, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 



66,76,81,86-88, 100 



elrodi 96 



handi 46 



havdeni 42, 69, 78, 79, 81, 95, 96 



h. betheli 43 



h. corrugata 43, 61, 62 



h.gabbiana 43, 67,71,72,78-80 



h. hybrida .43, 57, 59, 64-67, 70, 72 



h. mixta 43 



h. oquirrhensis 77-81 



h. oquirrhensis form utahensis 42 



h. utahensis 43, 66, 72, 78-80 



hemphilli... 45,78,81 



h. eurekensis 45,46,81 



hendersoni dakani 44, 65 



hermosensis 96 



I metcalfei.. 86, 87, 95, 100 



! m. acutidiscus 96-98 



m. concentrica 96, 97, 98 



I m. cuchillensis 87,96,99 



m. hermosensis 97, 98-100 



m. radiata 96,97.99, 100 



peripherica.43, 44, 62, 64, 66, 69, 70 



p. wasatchensis 43, 67, 68 



pilsbryi 86,96, 100 



! rugosa 44, 65, 66 



socorroensis..^. 96 



strigosa 78 



s. depressa 43, .54, 59, 60, 62, 64, 



j 65,67,68,70,73,76,81,94,96 



s. fragilis 61,62 



s. magnicornu 78 



s. metcalfei 95 



swopei ^7,93,95 



tenuistriata 45, 53 



yavapai 45, 46 



Orthaulax pugnax 150 



Orthopristis chrvsopterus 112 



Osteulcus '.. 247, 249 



kervillei 248 



Ostrea bolus 192 



I brvani 329 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Ostrea cahobasensis 40 



hanleyana 328 



retusa 328 



rosacea 327 



sandvifhensis 327 



sculpt urata osculum 40 



vaughani insularis 40 



Paludestrina longinqua 58, 59, 64, 71, 



72, 75, 76, 77 



Paracentropristis hepatus 277 



Paracosmia 247 



Paradichroplus 253, 275 



Paraidemona mimica 274 



Paralichthys dentatus 115 



Paramorea 295 



lirata 295,296 



Parasparatta 245 



Pasithea aeiculata 222, 224 



Patula slrigosa gabbiana 77 



s. oquirrhensis 77 



s. utahensis ' 77 



Pecten (Amusium) correctus 194 



insequaUs 194 



ischnon 194 



opercularis 194 



oxvgomim 193 



plurinominis 193 



thetidi.s 193 



iiselmae 194 



Pedies 253 



mexicanus 253, 274 



variabilis 253, 274 



virescens 253, 274 



Pellona bleekeriana 130 



castelnteana 130 



Pentanehus 279 



Per>:-a flavescens 121, 125, 278 



nebulosa 277 



Percopsis guttatus 120 



omiscomaycus 119 



Perixerus " 273 



Petaloconchus domingensis 37 



Petromvzon marinus 122 



Pezotettix discolor 268, 274 



duniicola 255, 257 



lakinus 270 



mexicana 271 



n ebrasc ensis 273 



varicolor 275 



Phacoides perplexus 197 



(Parvilucina) pupulus 198 



Phsedrotettix 255 



accola 255 



angustipennis 255, 256, 258, 274 



bistrigata ,.255, 256, 274 



dumicola 255 



gracilis 255, 256 257, 274 



litu.< 255, 256, 258, 274 



palmeri 255, 257, 274 



valga 255, 256, 258, 258, 274 



Phasianella bryani 207, 20S, 209 



molokaiensis 207, 208 



rubra 210 



thaanumi 207,209 



variabilis 207, 208, 209, 330 



V. kahoolawensis 207, 208 



Phaulotettix 262 



compressus 262, 274 



tettix 262 



Philinopsi? nigra 214 



speciosa 214 



Philocleon 273 



Phoetaliotes nebrascensis 273, 275 



Phycis agrammus 277 



blenniodes 276 



macronemus 276 



Physa ampuUacea.. 51-53, 56-61, 65, 72, 



74 



ancillaria parkeri 75 



bullata 51 



crandalli 60, 67, 71, 76 



elliptica 76 



gyrina elliptica 73, 74 



lordi..... 75 



nuttallii 52 



sparsestriata 52 



Pilex bogotensis 237 



Pimephales notatus 110, 117 



Pisciregia 307 



Pisidium abditum 73 



ashmuni 52 



compressum 51, 52, 57, 58, 74 



huachucanum 52, 72 



Pitar (Hysteroconcha) casta 38 



Planorbis exacuous 56, 58, 65 



opercularis 73 



parvus..51,53, 56, 57,65,72,73, 75- 



77 



trivolvis 56-58, 73, 74, 76 



t. binneyi 75 



t. hornii 65 



Platyphyma azteca 264 



mexicanum 253 



pilosus 254 



Plethodon 13-17 



seneus 19, 25 



crassulus 25 



erythronotus 17-19, 24 



glutinosus 19,23-25 



iecanus 23 



intermedius 25 



jordani 18 



metcalfi.... 18, .23, 24 



oregonensis 26 



shermani 18 



wehrlei 18,23 



Pleurodeles waltlii 28 



Plochelsea gabbi 166 



Poecilotettix..... 273 



Pogonias cromis 113 



Polinices mammillaris 34 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



375 



Polita indentata umbilicata 103 



Polydactylus virginicus 133 



Pomatomus saltatrix 125 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus 109, 122 



Pomotis gibbosus 112, 121, 125 



Poronotus triacanthus 112, 125 



Potamides avus 34 



gastrodon 171 



pacificus 34 



Praos 249 



Prionotus evolans strigatus 115 



Prolabia arachidis 243-245 



ascensionis 243 



dominicae 243 



modesta 243 



Prosparatta 245 



Proteus anguineus 7 



a. carrarse 7 



Psalis burri 233 



f estiva 232 



pulchra 232 



rosenbergi 233 



scudderi ^33 



Pseudisolabis burri 236 



elegans 236 



tenera 236 



Pseudobranchus striatus 7 



Pseudomyrma nigrocincta 205 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus .... 115, 



126 



Pseudotriton flavissimus 19, 20 



marginatus 21 



Pupa nitidula 214 



thaanumi 214 



Papilla blandi 59, 62, 67, 69, 71, 81 



b. pithodes 103 



muscorum idahoensis 57 



Pupoides marginatus 104 



Pyragra brunnea 231 



fuscata 231 



Pyragropsis brunnea 231 



Pyramidella forulata famelica 174 



cronkhitei 102 



anthonyi....52, 53, 54, 58, 62, 64, 71 



Rseta canaliculata 202 



Raja eglanteria 109 



Ranularia 289 



Retusa biforis.: lol 



Rhabdotettix 255_ 



concinnus 255 



pilosus 25 Jf 



Rhinichthys atronasus 110, 118, 123 



cataractse ' 110, 118 



Rhinoptera bonasus 109 



Rhomljoplites aurorubens 132 



Rissoa epulata 172 



(Alvania) proavia 173 



Roccus lineatus 112, 125 



Salamandra atra 26 



bislineata 20 



Salamandra cinerea ^4 



erythronota 24 



fa^jciata -9 



guttolineata 21 



ingens 8 



lugubris 23 



perspicillata ■' 26 



porphyritica 12 



quadridigitata 21 



salamandra 26 



Salmo omiscomaycus 120 



Salvelinus fontinalis 117 



Sarakas 247 



devians 247 



Sarda sarda 112 



Sardinella humeralis 128 



Scalenostoma (Hvperlia) apicula- 



tum 226,227 



a. latior 227 



Scaphander alatus 214 



pustulosus 214 



Schilbeodes g\Tinus 117 



insignis 110, 117 



Scisenops ocellatus 113 



Scobina.... 286 



bicarinata 287, 288 



Scobinella tristis 158 



Scoliodon lalandi 128 



Scomberomorus cavalla 131 



maculatus 131 



Semele delimata 200 



firma 200 



Seminola 290 



crassa 290,291,293 



solida ;; 292 



Semotilus atromaculatus..llO, 117, 123 



buUaris HO, 117 



Sinaloa behrensii 261, 262, 274 



brevispinus 262 



nitida 261,274 



Siredon lichenoides 8 



Siren lacertina 7 



Smaragindella viridis 214 



Solenosteira dalli 34 



Solidula 215 



Spandax percheron 232, 243 



Sparatta clarkii 245 



flavipennula 238 



pygidiata 245 



semirufa 245 



Sparus mocasinus 278 



Spelerpes 12-17 



belli 21 



bislineatus 16-18, 20 



guttolineatus 18, 21 



lineolus • 21 



longicaudus 12, 16-18, 20 



maculicaudus 18, 20 



melanopleurus > 21 



montana 20 



multiplicatus 21 




376 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec.^ 



Spelerpes ruber 12, 16-19 



schencki 20 



SphJBrium aureum 52 



dentatum 74 



pilsbryanum 57, 58, 74, 75 



Spheroides maculatus 114, 125 



testudineus 136 



Sphingolabis hawaiensis 245 



Sphyraena guachancho 131 



Sphyrna tiburo 127 



zygsena 109, 127 



Spongiphora bogotensis 237 



croceipennis 237, 238 



Spongophora ghilianii 238 



pygmtea 238 



Spongovostox basalis 338 



Squalus acanthias 109 



barbus 277 



Subularia delicata 312 



Succinea avara..53, 58, 60, 62, 65, 81, 105 

 60 



haydeni 51, 57, 60, 74-76 



nuttalliana 74 



oregonensis 60, 61, 80 



o. gabbii 51, 52 



rusticana 53, 56, 59, 65, 71 



Stenotomiis chrvsops 112 



Stereochilus !^ 12, 14, 15 



marginatus 18, 21 



Striatura milium meridonalis 103 



Strombiformis aciculata 223 



ischnon 183 



praelubrica 183 



sarissiformis ■.... 183 



(Subularia) stimulus 183 



Strombina cartagenensis 33 



lloydsmithi 33 



poiitissima 168 



Strombus bituberculatus 170 



dominator 171 



galliformis 170 



gigas 171 



hawaiensis 329 



Subularia - 228, 229 



distorta 228 



metcalfei 227, 228 



Symphurus plagusia 136 



Syngnathus fuscus 125 



Synodus fcetens 109 



Tautoga onitis 113 



Tellidora crystallina 201 



Tellina (Arcopagia) elizabethse 331 



exculta hawaiensis 332 



(Merisca) errati 201 



Terebra baculiformis 152 



hitia 152 



Thais sant odomingensis 169 



Thalicrania cselina 203 



Thorius 12, 14, 15 



pennatribus 21 



Thunnus thynnus 112 



Thvrina 306 



Thyrinops 306 



pachylepis .._. 306, 307 



Thysanophora hornii 102 



ingersolH 54, 62-65, 88, 102 



Tornatina sandwicensis 213 



Trachinotus carolinus 112 



falcatus 132 



glaucus 132 



Triceratium... 335 



Trisopterus fasciatus 276 



Triturus alpestris 27 



crocatus 27 



italicus 27 



marmoratus 27 



vulgaris 27 



Trochilus duchaissingii 203, 204 



Turbinella valida 167 



Turbinellus validus 167 



Turbonilla angusta 176 



(Nisiturris) angustula 176 



(Nisiturris) aratibacillum 176 



(Pyrgiscus) beatula 174 



(Nisiturris) contexta 177 



decussata 316 



(Tragula) egressa 178 



(Evaletta) elizabethse 314 



(Chemnitzia) galeata 175 



(Nisiturris) insititia 176 



(Turbonilla) kauaiensis 314 



(Chemnitzia) kahoolawensis... 314 



(Evaletta) laysaneusis 315 



(Chemnitzia) obleotamentum 313 



(Chemnitzia) persequa 175 



(Nisiturris) pertenuis 177 



(Pyrgiscus) santodomingensis 175 



(Chemnitzia) thaanumi 314 



(Nisiturris) undecimcostata .... 177 



(Lancella) varicosa 316 



(Lancella) vitiensis 316 



vitiensis clavus 317 



Turris cartagenensis 32 



(Drillia) gibbosa 153 



Turritella altalira 36, 37 



atacta 35 



calostemma 36, 37 



cartagenensis ; 34 



domingensis 35, 36 



exoleta 36 



gatunensis 35 



lloydsmithi 35 



megalobasis 36 



perattenuata 36, 37 



planigyrata 171 



praecellens 36 



subgrundifera 35 



sulcigyrata 171 



tornata 36, 37 



Tylosurus marinus Ill, 124 



timucu 131 




1917.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



377 



Typhis linguifcrus 34 



Typhlomolge 13-15 



rathbuni 19 



Typhlotriton 13-15 



speliEUs 23 



Umbra pygmaea Ill, 124 



Umbraculum sinicum aurantia- 



cum 214 



Umbrina cirrhosa 277 



coroides 133 



Upeneus maculatus 133 



Vallonia c}^clophorella..53, 54, 57, 69, 81, 



105 



gracilicosta 64, 71 



perspectiva 105 



Valvata humeralis califoriiica 56-58 



h. sincera 74-76 



sincera 73 



utahensis 57, 58, 73, 75 



Vasum pugnus 167 



Venericardia aversa 196 



santodomingensis 197 



Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis. . 104 



corpiilenta 67 



modesta 104 



m. parietalis 54, 67 



ovat a 58 



Vitrea hammonis 75 



Vitrina alaskana ...53-55, 62, 64, 65, 71, 



103 



Volvatella fragilis 214 



Volvula cylichnoides 151 



ornata 151 



parallela 151 



Vomer setapinnis 132 



Vostox brunneipennis 243 



Xancus rex 167 



Yoldia pisciformis 38 



Zonitoides arborea..53, 54, 58, 62, 71, 75, 



103 



minuscula alachuana 103 



nitida 51 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1917. 



Additions to tlie Museum, 353. 



Attachees, 358. 



Barber, Edwin A., announcement of 



death of, 29. 

 Berry, S. Stillman. On Moschites 



verrucosa (Verrill) and its allies 



(Plates I, II), 2. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section, 



report of, 353. 



Botanical Section, report of, 354. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of the Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 353. 



Brown, Amos Peaslee, announcement 

 of death of, 339. 



BrowTi, Stewardson. Report of the 

 Botanical Section, 354. 



Calvert, Philip P. On Hagenius brevi- 

 stylus, 205. Beltian bodies on Aca- 

 cia, 205. 



Clark, William Bullock, announcement 



of death of, 339 

 Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 o42. 



Council for 1918, 356. 



Craig, Andrew C., Jr., announcement 

 of death of, 29. 



Cresson, E. T., Jr. Report of the 

 Entomological Section, 353. 



Curators, report of, 316. 



Davis, William Morris, receives Hay- 

 den Memorial Medal, 29. Notice 

 of, 29. 



Dixon, Henrv P., announcement of 



death of, 339. 

 Dixon, Samuel G. Report of the 



Curators, 347. 



Elections in 1917, 357. 

 Entomological Section, report of, 353. 

 Forwood, William H., announcement 

 of death of, 149. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on fishes 

 from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and 

 Maryland, 29, 108. A second col- 

 lection of fishes from the Panama 

 Canal Zone, 29, 127. 



Fowler, Henry W., and Emmett Reid 



Dunn. Notes on salamanders. 



(Plates III, IV), 7. 

 Green, Henry A., announcement of 



death of, 205. 

 Gutekunst, Frederick, announcement 



of death of, 205. 

 Hayden Memorial Award, 29. 

 Heath, Harold. The anatomy of an 



EoUd, Chiorara dalli (Plates XI, 



XII, XIII), 29, 137. 

 Hebard, Morgan. Dermapterological 



notes (Plate XVI), 205, 231. Notes 



on Mexican Melanopli (Orthoptera: 



Acrididse), 251. 

 Henderson, Junius, and L. E. Daniels. 



Hunting moUusca in Utah and 



Idaho in 1916, Part II, 29, 48. 

 Hess, Robert J., announcement of 



death of, 205. 



Hubbs, Carl L. Colpichthys, Thyri- 

 nops, and Austromenidia, new gene- 

 ra of atherinoid fishes from the new 

 world, 305. 



Hughes, William E. Japan of to-day 

 (no abstract), 1. 



Ihff, Mrs. Arthur R. Taos Indians of 

 New Mexico (no abstract), 31. 



Jordan, David Starr. Concerning 

 Rafinesque's Precis des Decouvertes 

 Somiologiques, 276. On a forgotten 

 genus of sharks described by Nardo, 

 270. 



Keeley, F. J. Polarization and color 

 effects exhibited by certain diatoms, 

 334. Report of the Curator of the 

 WilUam S. Vaux collections, 352. 



Librarian, report of, 343. 



Martin, Simon J., announcement of 

 death of, 149. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 354. 



Moore, J. Percy. Report of the Cor- 

 responding Secretary, 342. 



Newbold, William H., announcement 

 of death of, 205. 




1917. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



379 



Nolan, Edward J. Report, of the 

 Recording Secretarj-, 341 . Report of 

 the Librarian, 313. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 355. 



Officers, Councillors, and Committee 

 on Accounts, 355. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Notes on the 

 anatomy of Oreohelix, II, 29, 42. 

 The reproductive organs of Epi- 

 phragmophora callistoderma P. and 

 F., 29, 47. Oligocene mollusca of 

 Santo Domingo, 82. Marine mol- 

 lusks of Hawaii, I-III (Plates XIV, 

 XV), 205, 207. Marine mollusks 

 of Hawaii, IV-VII (Plates XX, 

 XXI, XXII,) 309. Report of the 

 Curators, 347. 



Pilsbrj^ Henry A., and Amos P. 

 Brown. Oligocene fossils from the 

 neighborhood of Cartagena, Colom- 

 bia, with notes on some Haitian 

 species (Plates V, VI), 1, 32. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and J. H. Ferriss. 

 Mollusca of the southwestern states, 

 VIII: The Black Range, New Mexico 

 (Plates VII, VIII, IX, X), 29, 83. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and C. W. Johnson. 

 New Mollusca of the Santo Do- 

 mingan oligocene, 150. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 341. 



Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 353. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 354. 

 Report of the Corresponding Secretary, 

 342. 



Report of the Curator of the William 



S. Vaux Collections, 352. 



Report of the Curators, 347. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 353. 



Report of the Librarian, 343. 



Report of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section, 3i4. 



Report of the Ornithological Section, 

 355. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 I 341. 



1 Rothermel, John G. The petrified 

 forest and painted desert of Arizona 

 ] (no abstract), 149. 



Santee, Eugene I., announcement of 

 death of, 205. 



Sauvage, H. Emile, announcement of 

 death of, 29. 



Standing Committees 1918, 356. 



Stone, Witmer. A new hummingbird 

 from Colombia, 203, 205. Report 

 of the Curators, 347. Report of 

 the Ornithological Section, 355. 



Tucker, Henry. Report of the Cura- 

 tors, 347. 



Viereck, Henry L. New species of 

 North American bees of the genus 

 Andrena, 205. 



Wade, Bruce. New and little-known 

 gastropoda from the upper cre- 

 taceous of Tennessee (Plates XVII, 

 XVIII, XIX), 280. 



WiUiam S. Vaux Collections, report 

 of the Curator, 352. 



Winsor, William D., announcement of 

 death of, 339. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA.1917. 



PLATE XX. 



.^< ■ 





■•: •#.■ 



W 



%» 



■««■' 



PILSBRY: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, IV-VII. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1917. 



PLATE XXI. 



PILSBRY: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, IV-VII. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. i917. 



PLATE XXII. 



PILSBRY: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, IV-VII. 







MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IflSI I 




'^i 



'lit 



■My 






