



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



18 8 4. 



committee of publication: 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL. SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



18 85. 




h 



AoADBMY OF Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 27, 1885. 



I hereby certify that iDrinted copies of the Proceedings for 1884 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 



Pages 



9 to 24 



25 to 40 



41 to 72 



73 to 88 



89 to 104 



105 to 136 



137 to 168 



169 to 184 



185 to 200 



201 to 216 



217 to 232 



233 to 264 



265 to 280 



281 to 296 



297 to 328 



April 



April 



April 



April 



May 



June 



August 



August 



August 



November 



November 



November 



December 



January 



February 



1, 1884 

 15, 1884 

 22, 1884 

 29, 1884 

 20, 1884 



3, 1884 



12. 1884 

 19, 1884 

 26, 1884 



4, 1884 

 11,1884 

 18, 1881 



2, 1884 



13, 1885 



3, 1885 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILAOILPMIA 

 W P KlUOAOC, PRIMTKH. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



FAGK. 



Araugo, Rafael. Description of new Species of Terrestrial MoUusca 



of Cuba 211 



Brinton, D. G., M. D. On the Cuspidiform Petroglyplis, or so-called 



Bird track Rock-sculptures of Ohio 275 



Carter, Henry J. Catalogue of Marine Sponges collected by Mr. Jos. 



Willcox on the West Coast of Florida 202 



Chester, Frederick D. Pi'eliminary Notes on the Geology of Delaware 



— Laurentian, Palaeozoic and Cretaceous Areas (Plate V.) 237 



Fordice, Morton W. A Review of the American Species of Stroma- 



teidae 311 



Foulke, Sara Gwendolen. Some Phenomena in the Life-history of 



Clatbrulina elegans 17 



On a new Species of Rotifer of the Genus Apsilus (Plate I.) 37 



Gill, Theodore. On the Mutual Relations of the Hemibranchiate 



Fishes 154 



On the Anacanthine Fishes 167 



Gray, Asa. Notes on the Movements of the Andrcecium in Sun- 

 flowers 287 



Heilprin, Angelo. On a Carboniferous Ammonite from Texas.- 53 



On a Remarkable Exposure of Columnar Trap near Orange, N, J. 



(Plate VIII. ) 318 



Notes on some new Foraminifera from the Nummulitic Formation 



of Florida 321 



Jordan, David S. List of Fishes from Egmont Key, Florida, in the 



Museum of Yale College, with Description of two new Species.. 42 

 Notes on Species of Fishes improperly ascribed to the Fauna of 



North America 97 



McCook, Rev. Henry C, D. D. The Rufous or Thatching Ant of 



Dakota and Colorado 57 



Meehan, Thomas. Catalogue of Plants collected in July, 1883, during 



an Excursion along the Pacific Coast in Southeastern Alaska. .. 76 



I ^ 3 z £, 




O LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



PAOB. 



Meek, Seth E. A Review of the American Species of the Genus 



Synodus 130 



Meek, Seth E., and David K. Goss. A Eeview of the American 



Species of the Genus Trachynotus 121 



A Review of the American Species of the Genus Hemiramphus. .. 221 



Meek, Seth E., and Martin L. Hoffman, A Review of the American 



Species of the Genus Teuthis 237 



Meek, Seth E., and Robert G. Newland. A Review of the American 



Species of the Genus Sphyraena 67 



A Review of the American Species of Scomberomorus 232 



Meyer, Otto. Notes on Tertiary Shells 104 



Osborn, Henry F. Preliminary Observations upon the Brain of Meno- 



poraa (Plate VI. ) 262 



Potts, Edward. On a Supposed New Species of Cristatella (Plate W.) 193 



Randolph, N. A., M. D. On the Behavior of Petrolatum in the 



Digestive Tract 281 



Ringueberg, Eugene N. S. New Fossils from the Four Groups of the 



Niagara Period of Western New York (Plates II and III.) 144 



Scribner, F. Lamson. Observations on the Genus Cinna, with Descrip- 

 tion of a New Species (Plate VII.) 289 



Sharp, Benjamin. On Semper's Method of Making Dried Preparations. 24 

 Homologies of the Vertebrate Crystalline Lens 300 



Strecker, Herman. Descriptions of New Species of North American 



Heterocera 283 



Swain, Joseph, and Seth E. Meek. Notes on a Collection of Anchovies 

 from Havana and Key West, with an Account of a New Species 

 (Stolephorus eurystole) from Wood's Holl, Mass 34 



Willcox, Jos. Notes on the Geology and Natural History of the West 



Coast of Florida 188 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1884. 



January 1, 1884. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Ant infected with a Fungus. — Prof. Leidy exhibited an ant, 

 Camponotus pennfiyJvanicus, which was rigid, with limbs and 

 antennae extended, as in life, in which condition it was found 

 under the bark of a decaying tree. It was infected with a fungus 

 which spread through everj- part of the body. 



Cassiterite from Black Hills, Dakota. — Prof. Leidy exhibited 

 specimens of tin ore submitted for examination by Mr. Eltonhead, 

 who reports them to have been obtained at Black Hills, Dakota. 

 They consisted of a mass of granite containing cassiterite, a 

 fragment of quartz with the same, and a mass of pure cassiterite 

 of about one pound weight. Prof. Leidy said he had also seen 

 several pounds of large grains obtained from gold washings. 

 From among these he had picked out several characteristic 

 crystals. 



January 8. 

 Mr. Geo. Y. Shoemaker in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



A paper entitled " Some Phenomena in the Life-History of 

 Clathrulina elegans," by Miss S. G. Foulke, was presented for 

 publication. 

 3 




10 PROCJCEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Visual Organa of Lamellibranchs. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp re- 

 ported on his work on the lamellibranch eye. He had examined 

 the edge of the mantle of Ostrea virginica and Mitilis edulis of 

 the Asiphonata, and the siphons of Venus mercenaria^ Mya 

 arenaria, Mactra solidissima, besides the forms already described 

 for Solen ensis and S. vagina (Proc. of Academy of Nat. Sciences 

 of Phila., 1883, pp. 248-9). The pigmented cells found in these 

 parts are essentially the same as those found in Solen ensis and S. 

 vagina. The smallest of all the cells were found in Ostrea and 

 the largest in Venus. Experiments on these forms show their 

 sensitiveness to light and shadow, and the cells showing the 

 retinal character described leaves little doubt as to the power 

 of vision. No nerves could be demonstrated passing direct to 

 these cells, and probably those distributed to the general 

 epidermis serve in transmitting the impressions. The visual 

 IDOwer is so low that nerves have not been yet specialized for 

 this purpose. 



January 15. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



A Fhosphorescent Variety of Limestone. — Professor Lewis gave 

 a description of a remarkable substance found in one of the 

 mountain mines of Utah, near Salt Lake City, sent to him some 

 months ago by Professor Cope. It is a white rock which phos- 

 phoresces with a lurid red light whenever struck or scratched 

 with a hard substance, and on that account has been called by 

 the miners. Hell-fire rock. 



It proves upon examination to be an almost perfectly pure car- 

 bonate of lime, containing occasionally slight impurities of iron, 

 etc. It is a loose grained, white, crystalline limestone, the grains 

 of which are but slightly coherent, giving the rock the appear- 

 ance of a soft sandstone. Upon slight abrasion in the hand, it 

 crumbles to form a coarse, calcareous sand. Under the micro- 

 scope the rock appears as a loose mass of irregular, angular 

 grains, which are nearly transparent, and which have a lustre 

 resembling that of alum. Portions of the rock are colored slightly 

 yellow by oxide of iron. 



Its phosphorescent properties are very remarkable, entitling it 

 to rank as anew variety of limestone. It was long ago noticed 

 by Becquerel that some limestones were slightly phosphorescent 

 after heating or insolation, but so far as known, no other lime- 

 stone possesses this property in a degree at all approaching that 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 11 



now described, the phosphorescence of which is nearly as strong 

 as that of fluor spar. 



Phosphorescence is developed when the rock is either struck, 

 scratched or heated. Upon using- metal, glass or any other hard 

 substance to strike or to scratch it, a deep red light is emitted, 

 which continues sometimes for several seconds after the blow. 

 Rubbing with other fragments or grinding in a mortar developed 

 a white light. The most remarkable phosphorescence is devel- 

 oped by heating a fragment of the limestone in a glass tube over 

 a flame. It then glows with a deep red light which lasts for a 

 minute or more after withdrawing the flame. The color of the 

 light emitted resembles that of a red-hot body. Several seconds 

 before dying out, the light becomes white or bluish white. Upon 

 cooling and subsequent heating, phosphorescence is again devel- 

 oped in the same fragment, but much more feebly and for a 

 shorter period, and afcer two or three such heatings, its phos- 

 phorescence is destroyed. 



Experiments made by the speaker upon the temperature at 

 which " Hell-fire rock " became phosphorescent, showed that 

 phosphorescence occurred at a temperature somewhat under 

 500° F. Small fragments phosphoresced much more quickly 

 than large ones. The lurid red light produced by a blow from a 

 hammer varied in duration of AMsibility according to the strength 

 of the blow. The phosphorescence produced by a slight touch 

 lasted only half a second, while a sharp blow produced a light 

 which remained more than twent}^ seconds after the blow was 

 given. Doubtless, a blow with a miner's pick upon the rock 

 would cause still longer phosphorescence. 



It was found that the phosphorescence developed by heating 

 occurred nearly contemporaneously with the decrepitation of the 

 calcite, and this fact may be of value in theoretical considerations. 



A search through the collection of the Academy for limestones 

 having similar properties resulted in finding a limestone from 

 Kaghberry, India, which glowed with a strong yellow phosphor- 

 escent light when heated. No phosphorescence was produced by 

 friction alone, as in the case of the Utah limestone. It was of 

 great interest to find that this Indian limestone, and this one 

 alone of all in the collection, had the precise external characters 

 of that from Utah. It had the same crystalline structure and 

 state of aggregation, crumbling readily in the fingers, and resem- 

 bling a sandstone. It was labeled " Phosphorescent Sandstone,'' 

 although containing no siliceous sand. 



This similarity of external characters between the two phos- 

 phorescent limestones is certainly more than a coincidence. It 

 confirms Becquerel's view that phosphorescence depends upon 

 physical rather than chemical conditions. He has shown that 

 when Ai'agonite is calcined, fused with sulphur and then heated, 

 it phosphoresces with a green light; whereas calcite, similarly 




12 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



treated, gives a yellow light ; from which he concludes that the 

 different colors depend upon different crystalline states, the com- 

 position remaining the same. 



The speaker had been fortunate enough to observe the rare phe- 

 nomenon of the phosphorescence of snow, having seen a snow- 

 covered Alpine mountain shining at night as though illuminated 

 by moonlight. This beantiful appearance lasted for about half 

 an hour only, and was confined to a single mountain. Here again 

 the phosphorescence, although of quite a different kind from 

 either of those mentioned above, was purely physical, depending 

 upon the assumption of a certain crystalline condition of the 

 snow. 



In general, the phosphorescence of a substance may be said to 

 depend upon an alteration in its molecular state of aggregation. 

 In the case of " Hell-fire rock " it appears to be the result of a 

 disturbance of its loosely aggregated crystalline particles, whether 

 such disturbance be produced by percussion, friction, heat or 

 decrepitation. 



The New Jersey Coast after the storm of Jam. <?, 188 Jf^. — Pro- 

 fessor Leidy stated that, in company with Dr. Sharp and Mr. 

 Ford, he had made a trip to Atlantic City, N. J., to observe the 

 result of the recent storm on the marine animals of our coast. 

 The shore at the highest line reached by the tides was for miles 

 covered with incalculable numbers of the Beach-clam, Mactra 

 solidissima. These in many places formed extensive patches 

 actually closely paved with the clams. Besides those visible, it 

 is probable as many or more were covered by the sand thrown 

 up with the clams. Until this evidence of the storm, he had no 

 suspicion that the mollusk was so exceedingly abundant on the 

 coast, though he had been well aware that it was very common, 

 and had repeatedly seen large quantities thrown on shore under 

 similar circumstances. With the Mactra were other mollusks, 

 and, though numerous enough, they appeared to be few compared 

 with the former. These were Fulgur carica and F, canaliculata, 

 Natica heros and N. dupHcnta, and Nassa obsoleta. Hermit 

 crabs were also numerous, Eupa gurus poUicaris in shells of 

 Natica and Fulgur, and E. longicarpus in shells of Nassa The 

 former shells had attached abundance of (Jrepidula wiguifornns, 

 and occasionally on the outside a C. fornica'ta. Of other crabs, 

 the Spider-crab, Libinia canaliculata and Platyonichus ocellatus 

 were frequent. A few half-grown Horse-shoe crabs, Limulus 

 polyphemus, were also observed. A few bunches of Mytilus 

 edulis were occasionally met with. 



It seemed remarkable that certain common m Husks were con- 

 spicuously absent, as the Oyster, Ostrea virginiana, the Clara, 

 Venus rriercenaria^thG Squirt-clam, My a arenaria, and the Horse 

 mussel, Modiola jylicatula. Scarcely any annelides were observed, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 13 



except masses of dead Serpula invested with Eschara variabilis. 

 Thiere were also no echinoderms, except one, the Gaudina arenata, 

 which occui'red in some places in considerable numbers. This, 

 it was believed, is the first time the animal has been observed on 

 the coast of New Jersey. The specimens presented were collected 

 by Mr. Ford. They usually range from three to four or five 

 inches in length ; but several were upwards of six inches, and 

 over an inch at the thicker portion of the body. 



It is an interesting question as to what becomes of the vast 

 quantities of Macira and other shells incessantly cast on shore. 

 Storms annuall}^ oblige the ocean to contribute from its inex- 

 haustible stores, multitudes of mollusks and other animals to the 

 sandy beach. By exposure to the influence of the weather, the 

 air, the sun, the rain, frosts and other violence, the calcareous 

 shells are broken and decomposed, and in a comparativel}^ few 

 years entirely disappear. Carbonic acid, of the rain-water, must 

 be a potent agent in their ultimate soliition as it percolates 

 through the sands. While the beach receives its constant sup- 

 plies of shells, no trace of these is to be found in the sands 

 immediately back of the shore ; which sands in former times 

 received the same incessant contributions. For similar reasons, 

 no doubt, calcareous fossils are comparatively rare in sandstones, 

 though in many cases their impressions are well preserved. 



Flora of North America. — At the meeting of the Botanical 

 Section of the Academy, held on January 14, Dr. Asa Gray 

 spoke of the progress of the forthcoming portion of the Synop- 

 tical Flora of North America, and of the occasions which had led 

 to the publication of the middle portions in advance of the earlier. 

 It had seemed important now to secure the results of the many 

 years of study which he had given to the large and difficult order 

 of Compositae, which will form the bulk of the forthcoming part. 

 He spoke of the perplexities attendant upon the accurate defini- 

 tion of generic divisions in this order, and especially of properly 

 discriminating the species of such genera as Aster and Solidogo. 

 He had no idea that he had really solved the difficulties of this 

 kind, or that any one would entirely solve them; but he had done 

 his best. He could himself name the species of Solidago^ and he 

 could name a good many Asters ; but he doubted whether he 

 had enabled other botanists to name them. Being asked whether 

 his views respecting the limitation of species had not under- 

 gone some change, in the direction of admitting more species now 

 than formerly, he admitted that this was probably the case. He 

 still held to what might be termed the Linnsean conception ot 

 species, that they were to be taken in a broad sense and expected 

 to comprise various forms, which might or might not be classi- 

 fied into varieties. But whereas, in his younger days, species 

 were thought to be independent creations, and the real diff'erences. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884, 



if we could find them, supposed to be absolute, we now look upon 

 allied species as haA'ing descended from a common ancient stock, 

 of which intermediate forms have died out, and therefore do not 

 expect that allied forms, on the whole distinct and definable, 

 should be completely unconnected by certain links or vestiges of 

 links. Moreover, it used to be thought that hybrids were neces- 

 sarily sterile, but it is now known that some hj'brids are fertile, 

 and that their offspring, fertilized b}'^ either parent, are generally 

 fertile ; that in this way intermediate forms between two species 

 may originate ; and it is clear that the two species ought not to 

 be reduced to one on account of such intermediate forms. Dr. 

 Gray referred to Rosa, Biibus and Hieraciwrn , in the Old World, 

 as genera in which no two botanists who had studied them could 

 agree as to what were species ; one school reducing them to very 

 few, which they can define only by disregarding certain interme- 

 diate forms ; the other multiplying them by hundreds, and char- 

 acterizing them by distinctions which might serve for the speci- 

 mens in hand, but which failed with every new collection. This 

 necessitated either the formation of a still finer-drawn set of species, 

 or the falling back to the broader Linnsean conception of a species. 

 The latter alternative had been generally followed in this country, 

 and Dr. Gray hoped that the coming American botanists would 

 incline to this view in the treatment of our critical genera. 



Relation of Iledidlary Rays to the Strength of Timbei\ — Dr. 

 RoTHROCK called attention to some experiments made by Mr. 

 Frank Day, in the laboratoiy of the University of Penna.,on the 

 relation of the medullary ray to the strength of timber. Mr. 

 Day had found that it required just about twice as much force 

 (say 1130 pounds) to pull apart a square inch of live oak, if 

 the force ran parallel to these ra3's as if the force were applied 

 at right-angles to them. 



What is true of the live oak was also largely true of other 

 timbers. The buttonwood (Platanvs occidentalis) was remark- 

 able for the development of its medullary rays, and also for the 

 difficulty in splitting that wood at right-angles to them. 



Mr. Day's experiments also proved that there existed great 

 differences in the quality of the material of the woody fibre ; for 

 in timber where the relative proportion of wood and ducts could 

 well be compared, and where the fibres were of equal size through- 

 out, differences in strength were to be found. 



Botanical Notes. Double Floicers in Gelsemium nitidum; 

 Euonymus Japonicvs ; Development of Fruit of Opuntia ; Helian- 

 thus tuberosus; Garya glabra. — Mr. Meehan exhibited two speci- 

 mens of double flowers of Gelsemium nitidum, one found wild 

 in Georgia, the other in Alabama. One was straw-colored, the 

 other deep yellow. He remarked that many double flowers in 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



gardens, credited to the florists' skill, were wildlings which had 

 been taken into cultivation. 



Mr. Meehan also remarked that Euonymus radicans, under 

 culture from Japan, is believed by some modern botanists to be 

 but a variety of £. Japonicus. He exhibited branches of the 

 latter which had been produced b}^ the former. They were not 

 varieties, but simply frutescent and radicant forms of each other. 



The speaker exhibited specimens of Opuntia frutescens, var. 

 longinpina, in which fruit had formed, though no flowers had 

 appeared, the scarcely developed sepals and petals having been 

 thrown off the apex in infanc}' . A regular gradation from perfect 

 branches to these fruits was exhibited, some of those most 

 closely related to perfectl}^ formed fruit having a tendency to the 

 red coloring which marked the fruits. Occasion was taken to 

 emphasize the morphological doctrine, that fruits like apples 

 and pears are but arrested branches. 



In continuation, Mr. Meehan reintroduced specimens exhibited 

 at a former meeting, showing that the roots of a supposed 

 Jerusalem artichoke, wild near Philadelphia, and supposed 

 to have been in some past time an escape from gardens, had 

 characteristics somewhat different from the form now under 

 culture in the vicinity, and inquired whether this might be what 

 has been hitherto known as Helianthus doronocoides^ which Dr. 

 Gray had demonstrated some years ago in Silliman's Journal, to 

 be the parent of H. tnberosns. If so, it might prove that this 

 species was indigenous to Eastern Pennsylvania. 



Dr. Asa Gray did not think the species was indigenous here. 

 He rather suspected that the form now^ wild had once been the 

 cultivated one, and that the ones now in use had been introduced 

 since. He remarked that he had been working among the roots 

 of different species of the genus, during the past autumn, some 

 of which he found had merely fleshy roots, like those of Dahlia^ 

 making no runners; others had runners developed into true tubers. 



Mr. Meehan also exhibited some nuts of Carya glabra Torr. 

 (C. porcina Nutt.) which had been brought in by one of his 

 seed collectors from a tree in the woods in the vicinity of 

 Philadelphia. They had two or sometimes three nuts in a single 

 exoc.-np, as in the manner of Castanea vesca, the common 

 chestnut. The collector was under the impression that all the 

 nuts borne by the tree were of a similar character. 



Dr. Asa Gray remarked that this occurrence of two or three 

 nuts of Carya within the same husk, either separate or partly 

 coherent, was of much morphological significance. Specimens 

 like these had been sent to him several years ago, said to have 

 been collected in Montgomery Co., Penna., with the remark that 

 the tree bore a good "many such abnormal fruits ; Dr. Gray 

 believed that the conclusion to which they inevitably pointed had 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



not yet been published. It was, however, communicated to Dr. 

 Engelmann, along with a portion of his specimens, at least five 

 years ago. The conclusion drawn was the following : The husk, 

 or so-called exocarp, of Garya, is an involucre^ usually containing 

 a single female flower, and connate with its ovary ; its ti'ue mor- 

 phology is revealed when, as in this case, it contains two or three 

 flowers. The stone or shell of the nut is the whole pericarp in 

 Garya as much as in Gorylus. In the former genus it becomes 

 free from the four-valved involucre at maturity ; in Juglans the 

 congenital union is more permanent, forming a drupaceous acces- 

 sory fruit, of which the fleshy part is involucre, the bony part is 

 pericarp. This view directly homologizes the Juglandaceae with 

 the Gupuliferse. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1*7 



SOME PHENOMENA IN THE LIFE-HISTORY OF CLATHRULINA ELEGANS. 

 BY SARA GWENDOLEN FOULKE, 



While collecting infusoria among Lemna and the leaves of 

 the yellow pond-lily, in a ditch on Brandywine Creek, Chester 

 county, Pennsjdvania, the writer was so fortunate as to secure 

 large numbers of that beautiful Heliozoan, Clathrulina elegans. 



This rhizopod was attached in myriads to the roots of the 

 Lemna^ the groups in many cases being composed of above 

 twenty-five colony-stocks, so matted together by the twisting of 

 the pedicels, and so surrounded by waste matter, as completely 

 to conceal at that point the supporting root-fibre. 



The animals were in a most active condition, feeding by means 

 of their characteristic pseudopodial rays, and multiplying so 

 freely by self-division, that the water was full of the Actinophrys- 

 like bodies, and almost eveiy capsule supported from one to ten 

 young individuals. 



After being kept in captivity for two weeks, the large social 

 groups had decreased in number, although solitary individuals 

 were much more numerous. Reproduction was still going on, 

 but not so freely, and by more varied methods. The phenomena 

 exhibited during the act of reproduction are the subject of this 

 communication. 



The modes of reproduction are four in number, two of these 

 being slightly similar, while the others essentially difl'er in char- 

 acter. These four modes are : Jirst, by division ; second, by the 

 instantaneous throwing off of a small mass of sarcode ; third, by 

 the transformation of the body into flagellate monads ; and 

 fourth, by the formation and liberation of minute germs. By the 

 Jirst mode, and this is the most common, the sarcode mass within 

 the capsule withdraws its rays, constricts, and divides into from 

 two to four granular masses, which, after a varying period of 

 rest, pass out from the capsule and instantly shoot forth pseudo- 

 podial rays on all sides, thus assuming the appearance of an 

 Actinophrys sol. These Actinophrys-like bodies after a time 

 develop a protoplasmic stalk, or pedicel, by which they attach 

 themselves, usually to the parent capsule. A thin film of proto- 

 plasm is then thrown out and subtended by the rays, at a short 

 distance from the body, and this, by development and secretion, 




18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



becomes the latticed siliceous capsule. The pedicel also becomes 

 more rigid, though always retaining a degree of flexibleness. 

 This manner of reproduction was first described by Cienkowski, 

 the great Russian observer, and discoverer of Glathrulina elegans 

 (see Leidy's Rhizopods of North America). 



In the second mode of reproduction, the rays are not withdrawn, 

 nor does the body divide, but the sarcode becomes finally vacu- 

 olate, presenting knob-like projections. Suddenly a small mass of 

 sarcode, usually one of the knob-like projections, detaches itself, 

 and, passing out of the capsule, shoots out rays and develops, 

 though more slowly, in the manner described above. This con- 

 tinues until the parent body is much redi;ced in size, when the 

 rays again protrude and the animal returns to its normal condition. 



The third mode of reproduction is by the formation and liber- 

 ation of minute germs. In this state, also, the rays are not 

 withdrawn, but the body of the Glathrulina becomes filled with 

 minute green particles, which, even before liberation, exhibit 

 active motion. A number of these are expelled, enclosed in a 

 thin protoplasmic film or globular sac, which bursts shortly, and 

 the liberated germs swim away. The development of these germs, 

 after this point, is yet to be followed. 



The fourth mode is still more remarkable, and is also signifi- 

 cant in bringing to light a new phase in the life-history of the 

 Heliozoa. The Glathrulina in which these phenomena were first 

 observed, withdrew its rays and divided into four parts, as in the 

 ordinary inethod ; but the sarcode, instead of becoming granular 

 and of a rough surface, grew smoother and more transparent. 

 Then followed a period of quiescence ; — in this case of five or six 

 hours duration, although in other instances lasting three daj's 

 and nights ; after which one of the four parts began slowly to 

 emerge from the capsule, a second following a few moments later. 



While passing through the capsule, these masses of sarcode 

 seemed to be of a thicker consistence than the similar bodies, 

 which, in the ordinary method, instantly assume the Actino- 

 phrys form. After both had passed completel}^ through, for 

 nearly a minute they lay quiet, gradually' elongating meanwhile. 

 Then a tremor became visible at one end, and a short prolonga- 

 tion of the sarcode appeared waving to and fro. This elongated 

 at the same time into a flagellum, the vibrations becoming more 

 rapid, until at the same moment both the liberated-monads darted 

 away through the water. Thej^ were followed for about ten 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



minutes, when both were lost to sight among a mass of sediment, 

 and the fear of mistaking one of the common monads for them 

 led the observer to abandon the search. Returning to the parent 

 capsule, a third monad was found to have escaped in the mean- 

 time. After twenty-four minutes quiescence, the fourth body in 

 its turn approached the wall of the capsule, emerged, developed 

 a flagellum, and swam away, a free monad. With a one-half 

 inch objective this one was closely watched, and the following 

 details noted: bod3'^ oval, transparent; nucleus present, dark- 

 colored and situated near the centre ; a pulsating pink vesicle, 

 situated posteriorly ; and a flagellum slightly longer than the body. 



For one hour and fifty-eight minutes the monad swam in all 

 directions, usually in concentric, ever widening circles, then 

 suddenly darting off at a tangent to begin again in a new spot. 

 At the end of this time, in its course it touched one of the free 

 young Clathrulina, and, to prevent it being used as food by its 

 cannibal relation, the glass cover of the live-box was tapped, so 

 that the current produced carried the monad a short distance 

 away, where it remained almost motionless several seconds. 



B}' a change to a power of three hundred and fifty diameters, 

 the monad was shown to attach the top of its flagellum to the 

 glass and revolve swiftly for a few moments, when instantly the 

 whole body became spherical, rays were shot out, and the trans- 

 formed monad was in no point, except that of size, to be distin- 

 guished from its Actinophrys-like cousin, whose career had been 

 so diff'erent. In some cases the monads remained attached by 

 the flagellum, using it as a pedicel. The whole development, from 

 the time when the monad began its free life, occupied two hours 

 and some seconds. 



This mode of reproduction secures a more widespread distri- 

 bution of the young than would be possible did this depend on 

 the sluggish Actinophrys form. It seems reasonable to suppose 

 that this is a wise provision for the perpetuation of the species, 

 should adverse conditions of life arise;. and also to prevent an 

 undue accumulation of the animals within a circumscribed space. 



The tendency of these rhizopods to attach themselves to the 

 parent capsule, a result of the inertness of the Actinophrj^s form 

 of young; together with the fact that this mode of reproduction 

 was apparentl}' induced by a lengthened captivity, necessarily 

 the source of adverse conditions, would point to the reasonable- 

 ness of the above conclusions. 




20 proceedings of the academy of [1884. 



January 22. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death of James C. Hand, a member, was announced. 

 A paper entitled " On Semper's Method of Making Dried 

 Preparations," by Dr. Benj. Sharp, was presented for publication. 



Indian Mounds on the Miami River. — Mr. P. W. Putnam, Curator 

 of the Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology, 

 Cambridge, Mass., gave an account of the explorations now in 

 progress by himself and Dr. C. L. Metz, of an interesting group 

 of earthworks in the Little Miami valley. It consists of twelve 

 mounds enclosed by an embankment of earth which runs across 

 the lowland and connects by a graded way with a circular embank- 

 ment on a hill thirty feet high, within which are two other 

 mounds. The mounds have pi'oved to be very important, as 

 several are constructed in a peculiar manner. In two of the 

 mounds circular stone walls were found, and from these walls 

 stones have been laid, covering in the central portions of the 

 mounds. Several of the mounds were sti'atified, and contained 

 basins, or " altars," of burnt clay, upon which were thousands of 

 objects more or less injured b^^ fire. Burnt human remains were 

 found in several of the mounds, and in others were skeletons, 

 showing that both methods of disposing of the dead wei'e resorted 

 to. Many interesting objects were found with the skeletons. 

 The most important discoveries were made on the " altars," which 

 contained, among other things, many works of art, including small 

 terra-cotta figures representing men and women, carved stone 

 dishes in the form of animals, and various objects cut from mica, 

 among them a serpent and a grotesque human face. 



There were also found a large number of objects made of native 

 copper, and several of native or meteoric iron. This is the first 

 time that native iron has been found in the mounds. Several 

 copper ornaments were covered with silver, and a few fragments 

 of a thin sheet of hammered native gold were also obtained. 

 Over fifty thousand pearls were found on one of the altars, with 

 thousands of other ornaments made of bone, shell, and the teeth 

 of animals. Among the latter were large canine teeth of bears, 

 which may prove to be those of the grizzly bear, or some species 

 larger than the black bear. Several chipped points of obsidian 

 and a number of singular pendants made in a peculiar manner 

 from a micaceous schist, were on one of the altars. 



Another important discovery was mentioned as having just 

 been made, but not yet worked out. This consisted of a series 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



of large pits, six or seven feet deep, in the natural clay below the 

 burnt clay layer of one of the moui ds. These pits had long clay 

 tubes, or flues, extending from them, and there is some evidence 

 that these pits were used as places of cremation, but this must 

 be determined by further and careful study. A number of photo- 

 graphs were exhibited, illustrating the structure of the mounds 

 and the objects found in them. 



Note on Manayunkia speciosa. — Mr. Edw. Potts reported 

 having found specimens of Manayunkia speciosa Leidy, amongst 

 material collected in the Schuylkill River, above Fairmount dam ; 

 thus determining what had previously admitted of a shade of 

 doubt, the strictly fresh-water habitat of this species. In contin- 

 uation he narrated some points within his own observation, 

 supplementary to Dr. Leidy's description. 



The branchial organs (tentacles) appeared to him to be grouped 

 upon two processes on each of the lateral lophophores, eight each 

 in the upper or more dorsal groups, and six or possibly more in 

 each of the others. Beside these, there is a single pair placed 

 centrally upon the dorsal portion of the head, and a similar pair 

 opposite, which do not seem to be connected with either of these 

 groups. The whole number is therefore .32-36. The alternating 

 contractions and dilatations of the vessels conveying the green 

 blood through the dorsal pair above mentioned are very conspic- 

 uous. 



While the general appearance of this crown of tentacles, when 

 expanded, is somewhat similar to that of a poly zoan, there is a 

 noticeable difl"erence in the effect produced by the motion of their 

 cilia. In the latter a powerful incurrent bears food particles, 

 etc.. towards the mouth as a vortex ; in the former case, while 

 the motion draws these particles from without or behind the 

 circle towards the tentacles, the moment the}' pass between them 

 they are influenced by an excurrent bearing them forcibl}' away. 



This outflowing current is further shown by the fact that 

 excrementitious matters are drawn rapidly forward through the 

 tube, and ejected at its anterior extremity. 



As food, therefore, cannot be sucked into the mouth of the 

 worm, we find that it is carried in. Acceptable particles which 

 touch the tentacles are grasped by the cilia, and rapidly passed 

 down amongst tiiem in near contact with the tentacle into grooves 

 at the base of the above-mentioned processes, and thence into the 

 digestive tract. 



Beside the specimens above mentioned from the Schu^'lkill 

 River, Mr. Potts has had recently under observation a consider- 

 able number, say fifteen or twenty, from the pond near Absecom. 

 One of these, to which most of his time had been devoted, had 

 been kept for many days isolated in a microscopic stage tank. 

 While in this situation it, for some reason, left its old tube and 

 formed another, giving him the opportunity to observe the 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



character of the latter, and the method of its construction. In 

 its earliest stages it is a transparent, smooth, and homogeneous 

 slime-like excretion, within which the worm may be very clearly 

 seen, as it works its way forward or drags itself backward by means 

 of its podal hooks and* spines. Later on, the anterior extremity 

 thickens and becomes more and more opaque, and, as Dr. Leidy 

 has observed, " feebly annulated," presumably from the adherence 

 of effete particles, and their compression by the repeated with- 

 drawal of the ciliated tentacles into the mouth of the tube. This 

 method of prolongation must continue during the residence of 

 the worm, and in consequence, if supported, it may sometimes 

 reach a length which is several times that of its inhabitant. 



January 29. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



Fossil Bones from Louisiana. — Prof Leidy directed attention 

 to a collection of fossil bones, which have been submitted to his 

 examination by the Smithsonian Institution. They were obtained 

 by Mr, William Crooks, at the mine of the American Salt Com- 

 pany, near New Iberia, La. They chiefly consist of remains of 

 Mastodon americanus, of Equus major, of Equus, not distinguish- 

 able from those of the domestic horse, and of Mijlodon harlani. 

 Of Mastodon the collection contained well preserved molar teeth, 

 and characteristic fragments of bones. Of the Equus major, 

 there are vertebrae, fragments of long bones, and a number of 

 teeth. The molars are characterized by their comparatively large 

 size and complexity of arrangement in the enamel folding, espe- 

 cially of the upper molars. Of 3Ii/lodon there are several molar 

 teeth, vertebrae and other bones, mostly fragments. Among the 

 bones are two mature and well-preserved tibiae, the best specimens 

 yet discovered of the species. They are identical in form and 

 size with those of M. rohudus ; indicating M. harlani to have 

 been a species of the same size as the former. The extreme 

 length of the tibia internally is nine inches ; breadth across the 

 head, seven inches ; across the distal extremity, five and one-half 

 inches. Further collections were anticipated from the same 

 locality. 



Foraminifera in the Drift of Minnesota. — Prof Leidy stated 

 that he had recently received for examination, from Mr. B. W. 

 Thomas, of Chicago, several glass slips with mounted specimens 

 of sand. These were obtained by washing clay from the boulder 

 drift of Meeker Co., Minnesota. In the specimens, Prof. Leidy 




1884.] NATURAfi SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



recognized some well-preserA-ed and characteristic foraminifera, 

 of which two forms appeared identical with Textularia globulosa 

 and Rotalia globulosa, now living in the Atlantic Ocean, The 

 fossils Mr. Thomas supposes to be derived from a soft yellow 

 rock, cretaceous shale and lignite, forming part of the drift. He 

 also reports the finding of fragments of marine diatomes in the 

 clay. 



The following were elected members : — • 



Benjamin R. Smith, Rev. Wayland Hoyt, Wm. Thomson, M.D., 

 H. W. Stelwagon, M. D., John Struthers, D. G. Brinton, M. D., 

 Thomas H. Fenton, M. D., and Miss Helen Abbott. 



The following were elected correspondents : — 



Karl A. Zittel, of Munich ; Marquis de Gaston de Saporto, of 

 Aix ; Quintino Sella, of Rome ; August Daubrie, of Paris ; and 

 Albert Gaudr.y, of Paris. 



The following was ordered to be printed :— - 




24 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ON SEMPERS METHOD OF MAKING DRIED PREPARATIONS. 

 BY DR. BEN J AM UN SHARP. 



Although this admirable method has been known and published 

 for a number of years, it does not seem to have met with general 

 acceptance. Man}' persons, indeed, with whom I have spoken 

 do not seem to know of it at all, and for that reason I do not 

 think it amiss to give an account of it here. 



I have had the pleasure of working under Professor C. Semper, 

 the discoverer of this method, for two years, and have seen, as 

 well as prepared, many specimens. I have seen some specimens 

 that have been prepared b}-^ this method over ten years ago, and 

 not the slightest change has taken place in them, and they look 

 as beautiful as those just finished. 



The method requires close attention at certain stages, and the 

 result depends upon the amount of care bestowed ; the end, when 

 successful, fully repays any amount of care that has been taken. 



Nearly any animal or animal tissue may be prepared by this 

 method ; some require naturally more care than others — 'Of fish, 

 where there is a large quantity of fatty substance present, the 

 greatest care is to be taken. 



Dissections of animals are especially adapted for this method, 

 and most of Prof. Semper's preparations are in this form. If 

 desirable, when finished, the different systems of organs may be 

 colored and thus serve as beautiful specimens for demonstration. 



The object to be prepared is first placed in a solution of 

 chromic acid of about ^ to ^ per cent., or even 1 per cent. 

 In the case of dissections, these are to be prepared after the 

 animal is killed and then placed in a dissecting tray, the bottom 

 of which is filled with wax, so that diff"erent parts may be pinned 

 out and thus better exposed to view ; the tray may be then filled 

 with the chromic acid solution. 



The size and consistency of the object determines the length 

 of time that it should remain in the solution ; Annelides, small 

 Gastropoda or Lamellibranchiata, small organs, as kidneys, etc., 

 or small vertebrates, as frogs, mice, birds, etc., should remain in 

 from six to eight hours ; larger animals or organs from eight to 

 twenty-four. 



The chromic acid is merely to kill the tissues, and at the same 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



time hardens them somewhat. Any other of the hardening fluids 

 may be used, and for these I can refer the reader to Dr. C. O. 

 Whitman's paper on this subject, which appeared in the Amer- 

 ican NaturalUt^ (vol. xvi, 1882, pp. 697, 772). Chromic acid, 

 however, is the reagent that Prof. Semper always uses, and it 

 seems to answer ever3'^ purpose. 



After the object has been left a sufficient length of time in the 

 fluid, this is poured oflJ" and the vessel filled with water, which 

 should be constantly' changed until there is no yellow color either 

 in tlie object or in the water. In other words, as much of the acid 

 must be withdrawn as possible. This part of the process is 

 considerably shortened by allowing a current of water to flow 

 through the vessel. This stage takes from ten to twenty hours, 

 or even more. 



After this is completed the object is placed in weak alcohol, 

 from 30 to 40 per cent., for at least a day ; when the specimen is 

 quite small, ten or fifteen hours are sufficient. Then the alcohol 

 may be strengthened to 60 or 70 per cent., and the object remain 

 in this for two or thi'ee days (with larger objects, a week). 



The object may now be placed in strong alcohol, from 90 to 

 95 per cent., for about the same length of time as with the 70 

 per cent. It may, indeed, remain here for weeks or months. 

 I have often taken specimens that had been well preserved, 

 after having been for a year in 90 per cent, alcohol, with as 

 good a result as if freshly prepared. 



In cases of dissections where parts have been pinned apart, 

 after passing through the 70 per cent alcohol stage, they may be 

 taken carefully out of the traj's, and the rest of the process gone 

 through with in closely stopped bottles, for they are at this point 

 quite stitf. 



When objects have remained a sufficient length of time in the 

 strong alcohol, they are placed in absolute alcohol. If the strong 

 alcohol be changed once or twice, it will necessaril}'^ save the 

 absolute alcohol to some extent. 



This stage of absolute alcohol is the most critical part of the 

 whole process. Absolutely every particle of the water must be 

 removed, and the secret of the whole success depends on this one 

 point. If an}^ water be left in the tissue, it will become spotted 

 and eventually spoil. I feel positive that those who have tried 

 this method and have failed to produce satisfactory results, have 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



not been careful enough to remove every particle of water, I 

 always take the precaution of changing the absolute alcohol once 

 or twice, especially in moist climates. 



After all the water has been withdrawn by the absolute alcohol, 

 by remaining in it for three daj's to a week, the object is placed 

 in turpentine, the best that can be procured. In this it is allowed 

 to remain until it becomes thoroughly saturated — with large 

 objects it is best to change the turpentine once. Two or three 

 days are required for this stage. When saturated the object is 

 quite stiff, and when the process is successful little or no contrac- 

 tion has taken place. The object is then placed in the air and 

 protected carefully from the dust, and the turpentine allowed to 

 evajjorate. The object then soon presents a very beautiful 

 appearance ; it becomes white, resembling the whitest kid. It is 

 light, stiff and, on account of the resin it contains, is perfectly 

 insect-proof. 



In annelides the iridescence is perfectly kept ; hair and feathers 

 retain their original colors. 



If hollow organs, as the stomach, bladders, lungs, etc, are to 

 be prepared, they may be blown up after they have been a short 

 time in the turpentine ; by so doing much space, and consequently 

 much alcohol, are saved. 



This is the practical part of the method, and I may add in a 

 few words the whole principle. The object is to earefull}'^ and 

 slowly harden the tissue and to remove every particle of luater, 

 the place of which is taken by the resin. 



If the process be hurried contractions are apt to occur, and 

 consequently bad-looking specimens result. 



The advantages of this method are great. We have a perfectly 

 dry object, with the perfect form kept ; it is far preferable to 

 handle than alcoholic dissections or preparations. It will last 

 indefinitely and is insect-proof. 



Prof, Semper keeps his preparations in glass boxes which are 

 perfectly dust-proof, and by this both sides of the preparation 

 can be distinctly seen. 



An addition to this process was discovered by Prof, Semper 

 about two years ago, which I do not think has yet been published. 

 It is to place the prepared object in a solution of glycerine and 

 sugar. In some objects this brings back almost entirely the 

 original color of the animal ; one disadvantage of this is, however, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



that unless kept in dust-proof cases they would become spoiled 

 by the dust collecting on them. 



As absolute alcohol is so expensive in this country, the cost of 

 a large specimen would be considerable, and therefore the process 

 is better adapted for smaller objects. 



A cheap method of making absolute alcohol, from the strong 

 (95 per cent.) spirit, used in Prof. L. Rauvier's laboratory in 

 Paris, would not, I think, be out of place to be mentioned here. 



The details of this process were given me by my friend, Dr. 

 W. Yignal, the assistant of Prof. Rauvier. A wide-mouthed 

 bottle is takeji, holding about a litre, and a three-quarters filled 

 with the strong alcohol. 



A mass of pulverized cupric sulphate (CuSO^ + 5 Aq.) is 

 heated to a red heat in order to drive off the water of crystalliza- 

 tion. This is poured, when cool, into the alcohol, the mouth of 

 the bottle quicklj^ closed, and the whole shaken. The cupric 

 sulphate is insoluble in alcohol, but has an affinity for the water 

 contained in it, and the water is consequently taken up, and the 

 cupric sulphate becomes bluish. When this has stood — with 

 occasional shakings — for a day or so, decant, and repeat the 

 operation, especially if there is very much of a blue color in the 

 sediment. 



When finished a drop of alcohol can be mixed with a drop of 

 turpentine on an object-glass, and if there be no particles of water 

 to be seen under the microscope, the alcohol is absolute enough 

 for all practical purposes. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



February 5. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Notes on a Collection of Anchovies from Havana and Key 

 West, with an account of a new species, Stolephorus eurystole, 

 from Wood's Holl, Mass.," by Jos. Swain and Seth E. Meek. 



" On a new species of Rotifer, of the Genus Apsilus," by 

 Sara Gwendolen Foulke. 



The death of Wm. T. Haines, a member, was announced. 



February 12. 



Rev. H. C. McCooK, D. D., in the chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled " List of Fishes from Egmont Key, Florida, 

 in the museum of Yale College, with descriptions of two new 

 species," by David S. Jordan, was presented for publication. 



Fresh-water Sponges as improbable causes of the pollution of 

 river-water. — Mr. Potts reported that on the 9th of February 

 he had visited and partiallj'^ examined the forebay at Fairmount 

 Water-works, on the Schuylkill River, from which the water had 

 been temporarily withdrawn, with a view to discover the winter 

 condition of the fresh-water sponges and the other inhabitants 

 of that locality. He found far the larger part of the wall surface 

 below the water-line inaccessible on account of a thick deposit 

 of mud upon the bottom, and much water remaining in the fore- 

 bay. Wherever reached, however, and so far as the eye could 

 detect in other places, it was covered by a mud-colored incrusta- 

 tion of considerable thickness, which a more minute examination 

 showed to be composed almost wholly of the statoblasts and 

 spicules of tlie sponge Meyenia Leidyi. Some few fragments 

 of Meyenia fluviatilis and Spongiila fragilis were seen, but the 

 first-named was clearly the prevailing species. 



A sluiceway which formerly supplied the last of the old " breast 

 wheels " used in pumping into the reservoir, but from which the 

 water had been for many months excluded, was entered and 

 examined. Here the remaining incrustation (much having doubt- 

 less crumbled and fallen away) was from one-fourth to one-half 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



an inch thick, of the appearance of crumbling plaster, and, as in 

 the other cases, it consisted of the sponge before named, with 

 but a small proportion of intruded material. 



While considering the effect of the presence of so large a 

 sponge-growth at the very inlet to the supply-pumps, Mr. Potts 

 stated that this particular species was conspicuous among the 

 known North American sponges by its great relative density 

 and the small proportion of its sarcode or flesh. Its decay, there- 

 fore, at the termination of its period of summer growth would 

 be a less cause of pollution to the water-supply than that of any 

 other sponge 



Moreover, from recent investigations into the life-history of 

 these low organisms, he was inclined to believe that decay was 

 not the normal or necessary result of the close of each season's 

 growth. The fragile branches of some species inhabiting exposed 

 situations toa}', of course, be broken off and destroyed while the 

 sarcode still covers them; but in the sessile portions, and in all 

 when sufficiently protected, the cells of the sarcode at the period 

 of full maturity, forsaking their places along the lines of the 

 skeleton framework, gather together by simultaneous amoeboid 

 movements into dense groups, where thej^ are soon covered by 

 a tough chitinous " coat," which, in time, generalh' becomes 

 surrounded by a " crust " of minute granular cells, and armor- 

 plated by a series of protective spicules. These groups are now 

 recognized as the statoblasts, gemmules or winter-eggs of the 

 sponge — eggs only in appearance — in reality the resting spores 

 or protected germs which conserve the life of the individual 

 through the cold and storms of winter, and awake very early iri 

 the springtime into new life — yet a continuance only of the 

 same existence which was seen a few months before nestling into 

 this winter's sleep. 



If this is the ordinary course with these organisms there seems 

 no reason to regard them as serious causes of the pollution of 

 our streams, though violent freshets before this resting period is 

 reached may tear them to pieces, and their decay may give a 

 temporary taint to the water. 



Continuing the narrative of his exploration, Mr. Potts described 

 the iron pipes which had lain for many years upon the bottom of 

 the fore-bay, as covered in some places to the depth of an inch 

 or more, with a crust richly colored by iron-oxide, but principally 

 composed, as were the others, of the spicules and statoblasts of 

 M. Leidyi. Upon the surface of this crust in places, he found 

 the remains of large colonies of Urnatella gracilis Leidy. In 

 the absence of a\-\y positive knowledge of the winter condition of 

 this curious polyp, Mr. Potts had examined with much interest 

 a novel form of statoblast, which was frequent upon the same 

 pieces of sponge ; but he was unsuccessful in associating it with 

 the polyzoan. It is most probable that the life is continued as 

 suggested by Dr. Leid}', within the urn-like joints of this crea- 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



ture, and that they put out buds and a new growth in the spring. 

 To discover if this be the ease he had placed some fragments in 

 water, and while awaiting results he had been surprised at the 

 appearance within a few daj^s amongst the fragments of Urnatelta, 

 of numbers of the recently described chsetobranch-worm, Mana- 

 yunkia speciosa, of Leidy, as well as several living cells of a 

 species of Faludicella, probably F. elongata, of the same author. 

 The persistence and tenacity of life in these apparently delicate 

 creatures, overcoming not only the severity of a hard winter,, but 

 an exposure of several days in the open air, were further com- 

 mented upon. 



February 19. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The deaths of Dr. Geo. Engelmann and Prof. Arnold Guyot, 

 correspondents, were announced. 



Indian use of Apocynum cannabinum as a textile fibre. — At 

 the meeting of the Botanical Section held on the 18th inst., Mr. 

 Thomas Meehan stated that while it was well known that the 

 fibre of Apocynum canaahinum was used by the Eastern Indians 

 in the manufacture of baskets, mats and other articles, he had 

 heard it doubted whether the same plant was used by the Indians 

 in the West. He had interested a ladj- in Washoe Valley, West- 

 ern Nevada, to get direct from the Indians of that section stems 

 of the plant used by them. She had done so, and he now exhib- 

 ited them. They proved to be the same plant, Apocynum can- 

 nabinum,. 



The Longevity of Trees. — Professor Sheafer, of Pottsville, Pa,, 

 i-eading an abstract of Mr. Meehan's remarks, in Proceedings of 

 the Academy , had cut and sent for the inspection of members some 

 specimens from Schuylkill county, remarkable for slow growth, 

 of a black oak, Quercus tinctoria, in which the annual growths 

 showed in a little over two inches from the centre an average of 

 36 circles to an inch ; one of hemlock spruce, Abies Canadensis, 

 51 to an inch; and one of the common chestnut, Castanea vesca 

 Americana, 24 to an inch. Though only four inches in diameter, 

 the oak stem was seventy-six years old ; the hemlock one hun- 

 dred and four years and in diameter four inches ; and the chestnut 

 four and a half inches in diameter in sixty years. 



With a struggle for life either from poverty of the soil, eleva- 

 tion, or close growth of trees, which the small annual growths 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



indicated, Mr. Meehan believed the atmospheric conditions, as 

 regards shelter from wind or from drying atmospheric currents, 

 must be very favorable to induce longevity under such circum- 

 stances. There seemed to be no reason why these trees might 

 not reach the full average duration of two hundred years, which 

 he had before named as about the duration of most trees of the 

 Eastern United States. 



Prof. Sheafer gave some instances indicating th-at the average 

 might be higher than the figures he had offered. 



Parasitism in Boschniakia glabra, E. Meyer. — Mr. Meehan 

 exhibited a specimen of this Orobanchiaceous plant collected by 

 him last summer, growing among alders in the track of the 

 retreating Davidson Glacier, near Pyramid Harbor, lat. 59°, in 

 Alaska, and remarked that the life-histories of this class 

 of parasitic plants were but imperfectly known, and every 

 new fact of interest. In the Yosemite Valley last year, with Mr. 

 John M. Hutchings and Dr. Charles Shaffer, of the Academy, 

 they had carefully dug out masses of eai'th with the snow plant 

 of the Sierras. Sarcodes sanguinea, and then tenderly washed 

 out ever}' particle of earth in a stream near by. There was not 

 the slightest sign of attachment to any root, and no root of any- 

 thing to be found in the mass of earth. There were not even the 

 slightest remains of any dead vegetation which could suggest 

 that the plant was even a saprophyte, as was generally found in 

 the case of Monotropa unifiora. There was nothing but a huge 

 mass of coralline fleshy matter, out of which the inflorescence 

 rose. The origin of this fleshy mass was yet the unsolved mys- 

 tery. From analogy with the behavior of other plants, he 

 was inclined to believe that there was some parasitic attachment 

 in the early life of the plant, and that it stored up in this coralline 

 mass enough nutrition in one season to support the inflorescence 

 of another, and, after this was done, severed the connection, 

 leaving no trace by the time the mass was large enough to 

 support the heavy drain of the large and juicy inflorescence. In 

 BoschMiakia, something of this sort had evidently taken place. 

 The plants were in an early flowering stage, and all, when drawn 

 out of the ground, had a single thread-like root depending from 

 the centre of the pseudo-bulbous base of the plant, as in the speci- 

 men exhibited. These threads, now hard and wood-like, broke off 

 very easily at the time, and it did not occur to the collector that 

 they might be alder roots, as the densit}' of the substance might 

 now suggest. The desire to botanize over as large a tract as 

 possible in the six hours given by the commander of the ship, 

 did not admit of time to dig down and ascertain directly whether 

 these threads were alder roots, and in direct connection with the 

 living alder plants ; but it would be remarkable, if the^^ should be 

 alder roots-, and the Boschniakia sessile on them, that the plants 

 should all select roots of the same slender size, and so nearly 




32 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



exactly alike as the twelve or eighteen specimens examined in this 

 way indicated. Mr. Meehan stated that he had, in his Flower a 

 ami Ferns of the United States, series ii. vol. ii, p. 95, noted the 

 existence of a similar thready attachment at the base of Epiphe- 

 gns Virginiana, evidently connecting the plant with a foster- 

 parent in early life — a fact since confirmed by Mr. Fergus, of 

 West Chester, Pa. ; and a fuller examination of these cases might 

 afibrd the clue to all. 



Variation in Halesia. — Mr. Meehan exhibited dry leaves and 

 fruit of Halesia diptera, H. tetrajjtera, and of a remarkable 

 departure raised from the last-named species some years ago. 

 This appeared in a bed of seedlings all raised from seed gathered 



from one tree growing in a garden 

 in Germantown. It attracted atten- 

 tion when one year old by the leaves 

 bearing a resemblance to those of an 

 apple-tree. The parent tree had 

 leaves narrowl}' lanceolate and acu. 

 minate, rather thin, 

 pale green on the upper 

 surface, and with no 

 particularly prominent 

 veins. The plant in 

 question had broadly 

 ovate leaves, scarcely 

 pointed, very dark 

 green and rugose on 

 the upper surface, and 

 strongly veined and 

 hirsute below. It was 

 planted to see what it 

 would come to. 



The flowers were open cup-shaped, 

 instead of being drawn into a narrow 

 tube at the base, as in the parent 

 plant and the pistil was wholly 

 enclosed and not exserted. For 

 several years the plant was sterile, 

 and many good botanists, whose attention was called to it, 

 regarded the plant as a hybrid, and the sterility as a proof 

 thereof. It seemed of no avail to point out that there was no 

 other species with which the parent could have obtained pollen 

 within many miles, nor to show that hybrids were not neces- 

 sarily^ sterile. This season the plant produced fruit for the first 

 time, some of which were now exhibited to the Academy. 

 They are very small, not much over a quarter of an inch in diam- 

 eter, and the four equal wings were comparatively large and of a 

 strongly coriaceous character. The fruit which had been cut 



1(7. H. tetraptera. 



1. H. tetraptera. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



open were found to have perfect seeds. If the plant with these 

 leaves, flowers and fruit had been found-in a state of nature, the 

 botanist would surely have made a new species of it, if indeed he 

 would not have had some doubts of a new genus. 



Mr. Meehan then referred to his contributions in the past, 

 tending to show that there was an innate tendency in plants to 

 varv; that this natural tendency was at the foundation of all 

 theories of evolution, and that environment had not near the 

 influence on variation some good botanists claimed for it. If we 

 were to take environment as a serious element of change, there 

 would be no certainty in the direction of change ; but a glance at 

 the palaeontological and other evidences showed that change had 

 been always in the direction of certain uni- 

 form lines, and evidently in accord with a pre- 

 determined plan, which the accidents of envi- 

 ronment hacl not been able to override. At 

 any rate, such illustrations as this of 

 the HaUsia showed a remarkable 

 change with which certainly environ- 

 ment had nothing to do. The seeds 

 were all from one tree, with not even 

 another individual of its own species 

 near it. The seedlings all came up jj fetrap- 

 in one bed together, and yet out of 'era, var. 

 many hundred seedlings, all with the same 

 exact conditions of environment, there was 

 n. tetraptera, var. j^^^^ Qj^g with even an approach to the 

 singular peculiarities of this. 



In regard to the sterility or fertility of plants, what we would 

 call environment had evidently' much to do, and this also he had 

 endeavored to point out in former botanical contributions. In 

 his paper before the American Association for the Advancement 

 of Science, at Detroit, in 1875, he had shown that Mr, Darwin's 

 experiments in keeping bees from clover, and which in England 

 led to sterility, did not so prove in Philadelphia, the protected 

 plants there being fertile; and he there made the suggestion that 

 the diflTerent conditions of environment led to the different results. 

 He had also since then shown that Linwm perenne in Philadelphia 

 was self-fertile, though in England Mr. Darwin had found that 

 one might as well apply so much inorganic dust to a pistil as the 

 flower's own pollen. Here we have another illustration. The 

 exuberance of vegetative growth being checked by age, or some 

 other circumstance of climate or season, acting against the vege- 

 tative and in favor of the reproductive principles —principles we 

 know by many illustrations were antagonistic — gave us this 

 season an environment for the first time favorable to fertility. 

 The figures are two-thirds the actual size. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



NOTES ON A COLLECTION OF ANCHOVIES FROM HAVANA AND KEY WEST, 

 WITH AN ACCOUNT OF A NEW SPECIES (STOLEPHOEUS EUEYSTOLE) 

 FBOM WOOD'S HOLL, MASS. 



BY JOSEPH SWAIN AND SETH E. MEEK. 



The present paper is based on a large collection of Anchovies, 

 made by Professor Jordan at Havana, Cuba, and at Key West, 

 Fla. We recognize two species of Stolephorus in this collection 

 from Havana. Both of these species occur in the collection from 

 Key West, as also Stolephorus miarchus, a species hitherto re- 

 corded only from Mazatlan and Panama on the Pacific Coast. 



We are indebted to Professor Jordan for the use of his library 

 and for valuable suggestions. 



1. Stolephorus perfasciatus (Poey^ Swain and Meek. 



Engraulis perfasciatus Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 313, 1858 (Havana); 

 Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuba, 421, 1868 (Havana) (not of Poey, Synopsis, 

 p. 460); Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., vii, 391 (Cuba) (not of 

 Swain, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 55, nor of Jor. and Gilb., Syn. 

 Fish. N. A., 273). 



Head 4 to 4^ in length to base of caudal. Depth 5f to 6^. 

 Dorsal 12 to 13. Anal 14 to 16. 



Body oblong, somewhat compressed. Snout shorter than eye, 

 compressed and painted. Top of head with a slight keel. Eye 

 about 3^ in head. Mouth slightly oblique. Maxillary and lower 

 jaw finely toothed. The posterior end of maxillary rounded, not 

 extending quite to margin of preopercle. Gill-rakers numerous, 

 rather weak and toothed on under side, the longest about 1^ in 

 eye. Pectoral fins about If in head, their tips not reaching 

 ventrals by about diameter of eye. Yentrals short, their tips not 

 reaching anal b}' length of fin. Caudal forked. Origin of anal 

 below last ray of dorsal. Origin of dorsal midway between root 

 of caudal and pupil. Scales deciduous. Color as in Stolephorus 

 broioni, without dark punctulations except on base of caudal 

 and often on base of anal. Sides with a well-defined silvery 

 band, its width about | eye, being rather narrower than usual in 

 S. browni. 



This description is taken from numerous well-preserved speci- 

 mens, about 2 J inches in length, obtained by Prof. Jordan with 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 35 



a seine at Key West. Five specimens, the largest about 3 inches 

 in length, were also obtained at Havana. 



Stolephorus perfasciatus Jordan and Gilbert, Sj'n. Fishes North 

 America, p. 273, and Swain, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, p. 55, 

 is a different species, apparently without a name. It diflfers 

 chiefly in a greater number of anal rays, and in having a wider 

 and less silvery lateral band. No specimen of the true perfas- 

 ciatus is known to reach the size of the specimen from Wood's 

 Holl, Mass. This species from Wood's Holl may stand as 

 Stolephorus eurystole Swain and Meek. Specimens of this species, 

 perhaps mixed with others, have been distributed by the U. S. 

 National Museum under the following numbers, 19,003 to 19.017. 

 The one originally described by Mr. Swain and by Jordan and 

 Gilbert- was destroyed in the burning of the Museum of the 

 Indiana University, but others like it exist in the U. S. National 

 Museum. 



2. Stolephorus browai (Gmelin^ Jordan and Gilbert. 



This species is by far the most common of the Anchovies, both 

 at Key West and Havana. For synonymy and description see 

 Swain, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 56. Engraulis perfasciatus 

 Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuba, 1868, 460, is apparently' not a true 

 perfasciatus, and is probably this species. 



3. Stolephorus miarohus Jordan and Gilbert. 



Stolephorus miarclius Jordan and Gilbert, Proceed. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1881, 334 (Mazatlan). 



Four specimens from Key West. We are unable to detect any 

 discrepancy between these specimens and the descriptions pub- 

 lished by Jordan and Gilbert of the types of this species from 

 Mazatlan. 



4. Cetengraulis brevis (P'ey) Swain and Meek. 



Engraulis brevis Poey, Repert. Fis. Nat. Cuba, i, 879, 1866 (Cuba) ; 

 Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuba, 422, 1868 (Cuba) ; Giinther, Cat. Fishes 

 Brit. Mus., vii, 383, 1868 (no specimen). 



Head in length to base of caudal, 3^ (4^ in total) ; greatest 

 depth 3 (3|) ; about 40 scales in lateral line, and 11 scales in a 

 transverse series beginning at origin of anal fin. Anal 33 to 25. 

 Dorsal 15. 



Body deep, compressed ; belly compressed, not serrate. Head 

 rather short. Snout short and sharply pointed, If in eye, which 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



equals the width of interorbital area and is contained 4 times in 

 the length of head. 



Mouth somewhat oblique ; mandible extending little in front 

 of anterior part of orbit. Maxillar}'^ slender, very finely toothed 

 on posterior two-thirds only, not quite reaching root of mandible. 

 Lower jaw toothless. Gill-rakers close-set, longer than diameter 

 of eye, 3^ in head. Cheeks triangular, longer than high. 



Scales rather firm, not caducous. Pectoral fin not reaching 

 base of ventral, 2 in head. Yentrals short, 3 in head. Caudal 

 deeply forked, minutely scaled, l^ in head. Base of anal contained 

 If times in head. Dorsal and anal fins with dense basal sheaths, 

 which entirely hide the fin when depressed. 



Color in spirits plain silvery on sides, darker above. A dark 

 band beneath the scales about as broad as eye, extending from 

 upper angle of opercle to caudal. 



This description is based on specimens about 4^ inches in 

 length, obtained by Prof. Jordan in the Havana Market. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



ON A NEW SPECIES OF BOTIFER, OF THE GENUS AFSILUS. 

 BY SARA GWENDOLEN FOULKE. 



Among Spirogyra and Anacharis, gathered in Fairmount Park, 

 were noticed numbers of large rotifers, attached to filaments and 

 leaves of the plants. Though resembling in some respects the 

 forms, Dictyophora, of Leidy ; Apsilus^ of Meczinchow, and 

 Cupelopngus, of Forbes, this rotifer still possesses sufflcientl}^ 

 striking differences to warrant its being regarded as a distinct 

 species. The size of the specimens examined varied greatly, 

 the maximum size being one-fiftieth of an inch, from the top of 

 the extended net to the end of the body. 



The ventral outline of the body is ovoid ; the lateral outline is 

 crescent-shaped ; while the dorsal outline is similar to the ventral. 

 Instead of rotatory organs, this rotifer possesses a membraneous 

 cup or net, near the base of which, on the ventral side, are two 

 lateral antennae, as in Apsiliis lentiformis. 



When the net is retracted, the antennae are also withdrawn into 

 the body, and concealed from view. This is an unusual habit 

 among the Rotatoria, the antennae being usually situated upon 

 the body, and remaining exposed so as to act as sentinels 

 when the rotatory organs are retracted. This net is used for 

 the capture of food, consisting of the larger infusoria closino- 

 over an}' organism which is attracted into it. After capture, the 

 food passes through the oral aperture into a large, sac-like 

 passage-way, and thence into a second pouch, which extends across 

 the bod}' in the form of a much-wrinkled bag. The two ends of 

 this bag widen into sacculated pouches, which are used as store- 

 houses for the food while softening. This organ may be reo-arded 

 as the stomach proper, being filled with a greenish granular fluid 

 which performs the office of a true gastric juice, softenino- the 

 tissues of the contained food, in preparation for the action of the 

 mastax. When this maceration has been sufficiently prolonged, 

 the food is forced, by muscular contraction, out of its recess, 

 along the narrow central portion, past the mastax and into the 

 opposite pouch. As the stream of food passes, the mastax, 

 which is situated centrally at the bottom of the stomach, turns, 

 so as to face the stream of mingled food and gastric fluid ; and 

 works actively, chopping and bruising such portions as come 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



within reach. The raastax exactly resembles that of the three 

 other known species, being composed of two cftrved major unci, 

 near the base of each of which are situated four minor unci. After 

 beinor acted upon by the mastax, the food passes between the 

 unci into the oesophagus whence it is absorbed or thrown off by 

 the system. The ventral view of these organs is usually obscured 

 by large numbers of embryo, in various stages of development. 

 In front of the digestive sac, and apparently connected with it, 

 are two curved, pear-shaped sacs, of a transparent greenish hue. 



This rotifer, in common with all members of its genus, has 

 an unarticulated body, which is incapable of contraction. 



The net, which takes the place of rotatory organs, is shaped 

 like a hood, the ventral portion being elevated into an obtuse 

 lobe. In order to strengthen and support the long, curved, dorsal 

 outline of the net, there is, covering about two-thirds of it, a 

 membraneous shield, made doubly strong by two wide, arched, 

 muscular bands running around it. At the base of this shield is 

 a pointed projection, which is of still firmer composition. The 

 necessity for such an arrangement is obvious, when it is remem- 

 bered that the normal position of the animal is a semi-recumbent 

 one ; so that the weight of the net, which is about three-quarters 

 the area of the body, would be very considerable at these care- 

 fully strengthened points. 



The whole muscular system of this species is strongly marked 

 and powerful. Focussing downwards from the outside of the 

 dorsal view of the net, two gradually narrowing ridges or flaps 

 are seen extending up the inside of the hood. These flaps are 

 fringed with quite long cilia, and there are also shorter diagonal 

 lines of more minute cilia, the exact number of which lines could 

 not be accurately determined. This is the first instance in which 

 cilia have been discovered in any member of the genus, all 

 those species previously described, being stated to be totally des- 

 titute of these organs. In this case, their presence was first 

 detected while focussing through the dorsal side of the net, 

 although they could afterwards be plainly seen in a ventral view. 

 It was only by careful placing of the mirror that the cilia were 

 visible. 



Attached to the inside walls of the rotifer were the enigmatical 

 transparent bodies common in the Rotatoria ; and also a number 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



of purplish brown bodies, varying in intensity of tint, whose 

 character is as yet unknown. 



The rotifer, in the adult state, is tailless, eyeless, and attached 

 in a semi-recumbent position, from which it is incapable of 

 detaching itself, and without the power of re-attaching itself 

 when displaced. 



In the young state it has two red eye-spots ; a clums}' telescopic 

 tail, terminating in a broad, cup-shaped sucker ; and is so actively 

 free swimming that no accurate drawing could be obtained. In 

 this undeveloped state the rudimentary^ net is a thick fleshy 

 triangle, the truncated apex of which is inserted into the body, 

 while the base is surrounded by a wreath of cilia, on the closed 

 space within which the eye-spots are set. There is in this stage 

 no opening to admit nourishment. 



The development of this form into that of the very dissimilar 

 adult state is most interesting, and well worth the time and 

 patience necessaiy to observe it. 



It is proposed to unite the three forms, Dictyophora voracc, 

 Apsilus lentiformis, Gupelopagus bucinedax, and the form 

 described above, in one genus under the name Apsilus. The name 

 Dictyophora would have the first claim for adoption, but it is 

 already in use in two other branches of science, so that the choice 

 must fall upon the next in order of priorit3\ The specific names 

 given to the forms by their discoverers are retained. The history 

 of the genus is as follows: In 1857, Dr. Jos. Leidy discovered 

 and described a form which he named Dictyophora vorax. In 

 1866, Meczinchow described and named a similar form which he 

 named Apsilus lentiformis, the diflferenees from Dictyophora 

 being as follows : shape of the cup ; presence of two lateral 

 antennas ; and presence of a conspicuous ganglion of the pouch. 



In 1882, S. A. Forbes described a form which he named Gupel- 

 opagus bucinedax, designating it as a new genus. The differences 

 between this and the two forms previously described are as 

 follows: Gupelopagus differs from Dictyophora in the shape 

 of the net, and in the general shape of the body, the difference 

 in these particulars being very marked. It differs from Apsilus 

 in the absence of the ganglion of the pouch, in the absence of the 

 lateral antennae, and in other minor particulars. 

 • The species described by the author varies from the foregoing 

 in the following respects: it differs from Dictyophora in the 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



shape of the cup, as well as that of the body ; in the presence 

 of two lateral antennae ; in the possession of a second crop or 

 stomach situated below the ordinary crop ; in the marked muscu- 

 lar system, and in the ciliation of the net. 



The points of dissimilarity between this form and Apsilus 

 are as follows : The shape of the cup ; the absence of the gan- 

 glion ; the presence of a second stomach, and in the ciliation 

 of the cup. It differs from Gupelopagus: in the shape of 

 the cup ; in the construction of the cup ; in the two lateral 

 antennae ; in the presence of a secondary stomach ; and in the 

 ciliation of the net. 



The presence of the secondary stomach distinguishes this 

 species from the rest of the genus. The presence of cilia is not 

 so certain a distinction, as by dexterous management of illumi- 

 nation their presence might possibly be detected in some other 

 of the species. 



From the presence of the secondary stomach or pouch, it is 

 proposed to name this new species Apsilus bipera — pera meaning 

 " a little pouch to carry food." 



The reasons for uniting the three forms heretofore considered 

 separate genera, are, of course, founded on the strong points of 

 resemblance; these being, briefly, the presence of two ej^e-spots, 

 of a membraneous cup, of a mastax exactly similar in all four 

 forms, of the absence of tail or footstalk, of the absence of cara- 

 pace, and of the similar habits. 



The characteristics heretofore used in the classification of the 

 Rotatoria, as denoting members of the same genus, are : charac- 

 ter of rotatory organs ; number of e\'e-spots ; absence or presence 

 of carapace, and habits. 



In selecting the name for this new division, Dictyophora, of 

 Leidy, has the right of priority', but, owing to its having been 

 already many years in use, in two other branches of science, the 

 choice must fall upon that next in order of priority, which is 

 Apsilus, of Meczinchow. 



Tlie genus Aj^silus, then, will consist of four species — Apsilus 

 vorax Leid}'^ ; Apsilus lentiformis Meczinchow ; Apsilus buci- 

 nedax Forbes ; and Apsilus bipera Foulke. 



As there is no family in the class Rotatoria, in which the above 

 genus may be placed, a new family, to be named Apsilidse, is pro- 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 41 



posed ; characteristic, the substitution of a membraneous cup or 

 net, destitute of external ciliation, in the place of the ordinary 

 rotatory organs. 



Bibliog. — Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1857, 204; Meczinchow, Zeits.f. 

 wis. Zoologie, 1866, 346, Taf. XIX; Forbes, Am. Month. Micros. Jour., 

 1882, 102, 151. 



REFERENCES TO PLATE I. 



Fig. 1. Apsilus vorax (Dictyop7wra vorax of Leidy). a. Membraneous net. 

 6. Crop, c, c. Embryo, d. Mastax. e. CEsophagus. /. Oral aper- 

 ture, g. Vent. h. Muscular system of net. Seduced from drawing 

 by Leidy. The body is slightly wider in proportion to the net than in 

 original drawing. 



Fig. 2. Apsilus lentiformis Meczinchow. a, a. Antennae, b. Muscular 

 system of net. c. Crop. d. Mastax. e, e. Embryo. /. CEsophagus. 

 g. Purplish brown bodies. Beducedfrom drawing by Meczinchow. 



Fig. 3. Apsilus bucinedax (Cupelopagus bucinedax of Forbes), a. Net. 

 b. Oral aperture, c. Crop. d. Mastax. e, e. Embryo. /. (Esopha- 

 gus. Reduced from drawing by Forbes. 



Fig. 4. Apsilus bipera Foulke. a, a. Antennae, b. Muscular system of 

 net. c. Oral aperture, d. Crop. e. Secondary sacculated stomach. 

 /. Mastax. g. ffisophagus. h, h: Embryo, i. Enigmatical pur- 

 plish brown bodies attached to walls of body. 



Fig. 5. Apsilus lentiformis Meczinchow. a, a. Ganglion of the pouch. 

 Superficial view when closed. 



Fig. 6. Dorsal view of net of Apsilus lentiformis. a, a, a, a. Muscular 

 system. 



Fig. 7. Dorsal view of net of Apsilus bipera. a. Shield, b. Pointed 

 support, c. Portion of net above shield, d. Muscular system of 

 shield, e. Ciliated flaps extending up inside of net. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



LIST OF FISHES FBOM EGMONT KEY, FLORIDA, IN THE MUSEUM OF 

 YALE COLLEGE, WITH DESCRIPTION OF TWO NEW SPECIES. 



BY DAVID S. JORDAN. 



A small collection of fishes from Egmont Key, in Tampa Bay, 

 Southern Florida, belonging to the Museum of Yale College, has 

 been sent to me for identification by Professor A. E. Verrill. 

 The fishes were collected some years ago, a part by Mr. William 

 F. Coons, the remainder by Mr. E. Jewett. In the following list 

 the species collected by Mr. Jewett are marked with the initial 

 "J". Those not thus marked were obtained by Mr. Coons. The 

 numbers given are those on the register of the Museum of Yale 

 College. Those marked with a star (*) have been presented to 

 the Museum of Indiana University. 



1. Rhinobatus lentiginosus Garmau. (805, 821*.) 

 An adult specimen and a f(etus. 



2. Opiethonema oglinum (Le Sueur) Bean. (809.) 



(Opisthonema thrissa Auct., not Clupea thrissa L.) 

 The original type of Glupea thrissa L. was a fish brought from 

 China by Lagerstrom and described by Linnaeus' pupil Odhel, in 

 the Amoen. Academ., v, 251, under the name (prebinomial) of 

 Glupea thryza. Lagerstrom 's fish was a species of Dorosoma. 

 The Glupea thrissa of Osbeck was also a Dorosoma. In the 

 synonymy given by Linnagus, of Glupea thrissa, in the tenth 

 edition of the Systema Naturge, are included, among others, some 

 references to our Opisthonema. In this twelfth edition of the 

 same work is a description of a Glupea thrissa received from Dr. 

 Garden of Charleston. This ^Hhrissa^^ is Doroson i cepedianum. 

 The species called Glupea thrissa by Broussonet, Cuvier and 

 most later authors, is our Opisthonema, but the specific name 

 thrissa can be properly used only for the Chinese Dorosoma, for 

 which it was at first intended. The oldest name belonging to 

 our species (as already noted by Dr. Bean, Mss.) is that of 

 Megalops oglina Le Sueur. 



3. Sidera ooellata (Agafsiz) J. and G. (804; 824* [.T]; 840.) 



4. Coecula soaticaris (Goode and Bean) J. and G. (800*; 801.) 



Head 9^ in distance to vent ; trunk very slightly shorter than 

 tail; cleft of mouth 3^ in head, in a specimen 16i inches long. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Pectorals very minute. This specimen agrees equally well with 

 the description of Coecula scuticaris and Coecula teres^ nor is it 

 evident, from the published accounts, how the two are to be dis- 

 tinguished from each other. 



5. Coeoula bascanium s-p. nov. (S26 [J.].) 



This species belongs to the same group as Coecula scuticaris 

 and C teres^ but is distinguished from either by the shorter head 

 and better developed pectoral fin. The type is 31 inches long, in 

 fair condition. 



Body extremely slender, subterete, its greatest depth little 

 more than two-fifths length of head; head short; snout short, 

 7 times in head; mouth very small; lower jaw thin, included, , 

 not extending forward to the anterior nostril, which is in a short 

 tube ; teeth short, subconic, bluntish, a little unequal ; their points 

 directed backward ; lower teeth nearly in one series ; upper teeth 

 uniserial laterally, partly biserial anteriorly ; vomerine teeth in 

 a rhombic patch, some of them a little enlarged. Eye moderate, 

 its length rather more than half snout, its centre scarcely behind 

 middle of upper jaw. Cleft of mouth 3| in length of head. Gill- 

 opening vertical, about as wide as isthmus, its upper edge about 

 on level of upper edge of pectoral ; pectoral small, but larger 

 than in related species, a little broader than long and about as 

 long as snout. Dorsal fin very low, beginning at a point about 

 midway between front of eye and gill-opening ; anal similar to 

 dorsal. Head 11^ times in distance from snout to vent. Trunk 

 a little longer than tail. Total length 31 inches ; head If inches; 

 trunk 14| ; tail 14^. Color in spirits, dark-brown, nearly or quite 

 uniform ; fins paler. 



6. Ophichthys intertinotus (R cbardsou) Giiather. (803»,- 825 [J].) 



Dark brown above, paler below ; sides and back with about 

 three rows of large, ovate, brown spots, somewhat irregular in 

 size and position, those of the upper row smallest, the large and 

 small ones of the lower row somewhat alternating; spots on head 

 small and numerous. Dorsal with an interrupted dark margin ; 

 anal with a darker edge ; pectorals blackish. Head 3^ in trunk ; 

 cleft of mouth nearly half length of head ; pectoral about 5 in 

 head. Dorsal commencing a little behind end of pectoi'aT. Tail 

 rather longer than rest of bod3\ The dentition is well described 

 by Dr. Giinther (viii, 5t). 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Two large specimens. This species has not been previously 

 recorded from the waters of the United States. 



7. Myrophis egmontis sp. nov. (802; 827* [J.]-) 



Two specimens in fair condition. 



Head small, slender, moderately pointed ; anterior nostril in a 

 short tube ; posterior nostril large, with a raised rim, placed 

 directly behind the anterior ; cleft of mouth rather short, extend- 

 ing to beyond the rather large eye, which is more than half the 

 length of the snout ; cleft of mouth 3J in head ; teeth in both 

 jaws subequal, pointed, slightly compressed, arranged in single 

 series, those of both jaws directed backward, the lower teeth 

 being more oblique than the upper ; upper jaw with about 4 small 

 fixed canines. No teeth on vomer in either of the typical speci- 

 mens. Tongue not free. Lower jaw considerably shorter than 

 upper, its edge considerabl}- curved, concave in profile. Nape 

 somewhat elevated. Top of head with large pores. 



Head 5^ times in distance from snout to vent ; head and trunk 

 a little shorter than tail. Body slender, its greatest depth a little 

 more than length of gape. Pectoral fin short and broad, slightly 

 longer than snout ; gill-opening short, oblique, extending down- 

 ward and backward from near the middle of the base of the 

 pectoral. Dorsal fin beginning behind vent, in one specimen at a 

 distance about equal to length of gape; in the other specimen, a 

 little farther forward ; dorsal fin very low in front, becoming 

 gradually higher toward the tip of tail ; anal fin low, but well 

 developed, considerably higher than dorsal, highest anteriorl}'^. 

 Uniting with the dorsal around the tail. 



Color in spirits, dark-brown, apparently uniform, somewhat 

 paler below. 



Length of specimen about 15 inches. 



We refer this species to Myrophis, although its dorsal is 

 inserted very much farther back than in any of the known 

 species of that genus. The absence of vomerine teeth, if normal, 

 still farther separates it from the other species, and it is not 

 unlikely that it should be regarded as the type of a distinct 

 genus. 



One of the types {S2^) has been presented to the U. S. National 

 Museum. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 45 



8. Siphostoma aflBne (GUnther) Jordan. (839* [^].) 



9. Stromateus alepidotns (L.) Jor. and flilb. (812.) 



The adoption of the earlier name, Stromateus paru L,, for this 

 species is perhaps premature, until West Indian specimens are 

 examined. 



10. Traohynotus carolinas (L.) Gill. (810.) 



11. Lutjanus campechianus Poey. (842* [2].) 



12. Cbaetodipteras faber (Bronssooet) J. and G. (811.) 

 \?>. Batrachus pardus Goode and Bean. (823 [J].) 



One specimen, with the typical coloration of this form. 



\A. Gobiesox yirgatulus Jordan and Gilbert. (838 [3].) 



Three specimens ; the largest rather more than three inches 

 long, thus much larger than the original types. Caudal dusky ; 

 a dusky blotch on front of dorsal, D. 11, A. 8. Eyes very small, 

 barely one-fourth interorbital width. Head 3; its width 2|. 

 Lower teeth moderate, entire ; upper bluntish, in two or three 

 rows, two of the outer a little enlarged. This is probably identical 

 with Gobiesox nudus Giinther, but it cannot be the original 

 Cyclopterus nudus of L. 



15. Scorpaena stearnsi Goode and Bean. (806.) 



16. Achirus brachialis Bean. (843 ) 



A very young example, brown with a few irregular large 

 whitish spots. 



17. Aphoristia plagiusa (L.) Jor. and Gilb. (843.) 

 A very young specimen. 



18. Malthe vespertilio L., var. raiiotn Mitch. (795.) 



A short-nosed individual of the type which has been called 

 Malthe cubifrons Rich, and Lophiiis radiatus Mitchill. 



19. Antennarius ooellatus (Bloch and Schneider) Pcey. (796*; 797; 822 [J].) 



Pescador Parra, Feces de Cuba, PI. 1, 1787. 



Lophius vespertilio, var. d, ocellatus Bloch and Schneider, Ichth., 



1801, 142. 

 Antennarius pleurophthalmus Gill., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 93. 



Color in spirits, brown; pale on the head and belly, darker 

 posteriorly ; anterior region covered with small, sharply defined 

 black spots ; the spots posteriorly larger, and more vague in out^ 

 line, some of them diffuse shades; fins spotted like the body; 

 vertical fins with some paler spots also, and a pale edge; 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



sides of body also with irregular gray leprous blotches (perhaps 

 pink in life), the largest between last dorsal spine and first dorsal 

 ra}', forming a saddle ; numerous smaller areas below this to base 

 of pectoral; some on head; a small saddle between second and 

 third dorsal spines ; a large ring of the same grayish color, behind 

 dorsal, forming a ring about caudal peduncle ; some other blotches 

 between soft dorsal and anal ; a ring of black dots about eye; a 

 large oblong black spot on middle of base of soft dorsal, sur- 

 rounded by a light brownish ring ; a similar ocellus below and a 

 little before this on side of body, and a third on caudal fin a little 

 before and above its centre ; a few whitish dermal flaps on soft 

 dorsal ; inside of mouth black, with broad whitish longitudinal 

 stripes, these most distinct on the tongue. Third dorsal spine 

 much longer than second, its length equal to its distance from 

 tip of snout ; length of maxillary 4:^ in body. Upper part of head 

 with some coarse, four-rooted stellar tubercles. 



Our specimens agree very closely with the description of Dr. 

 Gill. There can, however, be little doubt of their identity with 

 with the Pescador of Parra, on which the Lophius ocellatus of 

 Bloch and Schneider was based. The characteristic position of 

 the ocellated spots is precisely the same in the two. I therefore 

 adopt for it the name ocellatus. It is not improbable that Anten- 

 narius annulatus Gill, from Garden Key, will be found identical 

 with A. multiocellatus (Cuv. and Val.). 



20. Balistes oarolinensis Gmelin. (805.) 



21. Alutera schoepfi (Walbaum) Qoode and Bean. (8.34.) 



22. Diodon liturosus Shaw. (815.) 



A young specimen, apparently corresponding to Dr. Gunther's 

 vsLT. a, of Diodon. viaculatus. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 41 



February 26. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



The following were presented for publication : — 



" On an Ammonite from the Carboniferous formation of Texas," 

 by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



'' The Tertiary Geology of Eastern and Southern United 

 States," by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



Messrs. Geo. W. Fiss and Francis E. Emory were elected 

 members. 



Distoma and Filarise. — Prof. Leidy directed attention to some 

 parasitic worms presented this evening. Some of these were 

 supposed to be leeches from the mouth of the alligator. Hero- 

 dotus states that the crocodile of the Nile has the inside of its 

 mouth always beset with leeches. The existence of the leech has 

 been confirmed, and is known as the Bdella nilotica. The present 

 specimens, however, do not belong to a leech, but pertain to a 

 species of Z'ls/o/^ia, apparently not previously described. It may 

 be named and be distinguished by the characters as follows : — 



Distoma oricola. Body elongated elliptical, moderately wider 

 and thicker posteriorly, and ending in a blunt, angular extremity, 

 convex dorsally and flat ventrally, unarmed, smooth or minutely 

 wrinkled transversely. Mouth subterminal, and enclosed with a 

 reniform lip succeeded by a linear annulus. Acetabulum large, 

 globular, included at the anterior fourth of the body, and openino- 

 ventrally by a conspicuous central aperture. Generative orifice 

 ventral, at the posterior fourth of the body. Length, 15 to 20 

 mm. ; breadth, 3 mm. Eight specimens obtained from the mouth 

 of the alligator, A. mississippiensis, in Florida, by Mr. Stua'-t 

 Wood. 



Accompanying the specimens is a fragment of the tongue 

 marked with circular scars, apparently due to the worms. The 

 alcoholic specimens in their present condition are incurved, with 

 the lateral margins inverted, and the included acetabulum pro- 

 duces a conspicuous dorsal eminence. 



Of several Filariie exhibited, two, a female and a male, pertair^ 

 to the species Filaria horrida, Diesing. The former is 28 inclies 

 long, the latter 11 inches. They were obtained by Dr. He my C. 

 Chapman, from the thorax of the American ostrich, Bhea ameri- 

 cana. The other specimens were obtained by Mr. P. L. Jouy, 

 from the abdomen of Strix brachi/otus. They consist of fou;-. 

 females from 12 to 14 inches long and a half a line thick, 

 and two males 2^ inches long and one-fourth of a line thick. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



They are thicker anteriorly with the head end obtusely 

 rounded, and with the mouth minute and bounded by a 

 minute pair of conical lips. Tlie tail end of the female is straight 

 and blunt ; that of the male is more tapering, and is included in 

 an elliptical alary appendage, supported on each side by a row 

 of five curving ribs. A pair of similar, but shorter and straight 

 papillae is situated near the anal aperture ; and a pair of pointed 

 processes diverge from the end of the tail into the alary expanse. 

 Two species of Filaria have been previously observed in Strix 

 brachyotus, F. attenuata Rud., and F. foveata Schn., to neither of 

 which the specimens under examination appear to belong. These, 

 however, so closely accord with the descriptions of F. lahiata 

 Creplin, from the black stork, Giconia nigra, that, notwithstand- 

 ing the remote relationship in the host, the speaker believed them 

 to belong to that species. In the construction of the caudal 

 extremity of the male, they closely approximate the condition of 

 F. lahiata and F. horrida,as represented in the figures of Schnei- 

 der (Monographic der Nematoden), while they are widely differ- 

 ent from that of F. attenuata and F. foveata, as represented in 

 similar figures of the same work. 



Some notes on Manayunkia speciosa. — Prof. H. Carvill Lewis 

 read a communication from Miss S. G. Foulke, in which the 

 following statements were made : — 



In the worm Manayunkia speciosa, described and figured by 

 Prof. Leidy (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883), the tentacular 

 crown, or branchial organ, is the feature of special interest. 



According to Dr. Leidy, the tentacles present in an adult are 

 eighteen in number, besides two larger and longer tentacles 

 situated midway between the two lophophores. These larger 

 tentacles are conspicuous by their bright green color, and are, in 

 fact, external continuations of the blood-vessels. extending length- 

 wise throughout the body. In shape, these tentacles taper from 

 base to apex, are convex on tiie outside, but concave on the side 

 which faces the centre of the tentacular crown ; so that a trans- 

 verse section would present the shape of a crescent. The two 

 edges thus formed are fringed with cilia. When closely watched, 

 the green tentacles are seen to pulsate with a rhythmical motion, 

 contracting and expanding longitudinally. The pulsation takes 

 place in each tentacle alternately. 



At the moment of contraction the tentacle turns slightly on its 

 axis, outwards and towards the end of the lophophore on that 

 side, at the same time giving a backward jerk, returning to its 

 former position at the moment of expansion. 



By force of the contraction, the gi-een blood filling the tentacle 

 is forced downwards out. of the tentacle, and flows along the 

 blood-vessel on that side of the body. On the expandiug of the 

 tentacle, the blood instantly returns and suffuses it, and thus 

 the process goes on. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



The contraction and expansion occur at exact intervals, 

 together occupying the space of two seconds. It is in this way 

 that the blood is purified and its circulation controlled. These 

 observations were made with a sfeven-eighths inch objective. 



To ascertain how long the cilia upon the tentacles would con- 

 tinue their motion after separation from the body of the worm, 

 both lophophores of an adult were put off above their junction. 



At first the tentacles remained closed from the shock, but 

 soon they were expanded, the cilia displaying active motion, 

 and presently the two separated lophophores began to move 

 about in the zoophyte-trough. This motion was produced by 

 the action of the tentacles, which bent in all directions, the tips 

 touching the glass, and was not a result of the currents produced 

 by the cilia. In a few minutes one lophophore had crawled in 

 this manner quite across the trough, while the other remained 

 floating in the water near its first position. In the case of this 

 latter the motion was produced by the ciliary currents, and was 

 entirely distinct from the crawling above noted. 



During this time the decapitated worm had sunk to the bottom, 

 and, though turning and twisting a good deal, did not attempt to 

 protrude the mutilated support of the lophophores. Its body 

 was so much contracted that the segments were not above one- 

 third their usual size. 



At the end of five hours the worm was apparentlj^ dead, num- 

 bers of infusoria had collected to prey upon it, and the surface 

 of the body presented a roughened appearance as though covered 

 with tubercles. The lophophores were still crawling and swim- 

 ming about. 



At the end of the eighth hour the lophophores had ceased to crawl, 

 but the ciliary action, though feeble and uncertain, still continued. 

 The body of the worm was then covered with a thick fungoid 

 growth, consisting of transparent rod-like filaments three-six- 

 teenths of an inch in length ; some of the filaments presented a 

 beaded appearance. All motion of the cilia upon the tentacles 

 had ceased, and these also were being devoured by infusoria. 



The above experiment shows that the motion of the cilia con- 

 tinued about twice as long as the mutilated worm gave evidence 

 of life. 



Several individuals of Mana,yunkia were observed to be preyed 

 upon, while still living, by large monads, embedded in one or more 

 of the segments, which were sometimes excavated to a consider- 

 able degree. 




50 proceedings op the academy op [1884. 



March 4. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Rufous or Thatching Ant of Dakota 

 and Colorado," by Henry C. McCook, D. D., was presented for 

 publication. 



Dictyophora as Apsilus vorax. — Prof. Leidy stated that Mr. 

 Uselma C. Smith, last week, had afforded him the opportunity of 

 examining a wheelless rotifer, attributed to ^psiZws, which he had 

 found abundantly, last autumn, in a pond at Fairmount Park, 

 attached to ^nac/? art's, and likewise in the Schuylkill River, near 

 by, on Potamogeton. A number of specimens were observed 

 attached to the sides of the jar, as well as to both the plants con- 

 tained tlierein. The specimens being more readily detached from 

 the latter than from the glass vessel, they were seen under more 

 favorable circumstances than previously. They were recognized 

 as Dictyophora^ first described in 1857 ; and as a result of the last 

 examinations, Prof. Leidy was led to the opinion that this, the 

 Apsilus lentiformis Meczinchow, the Cupelopagus hucinedax 

 Forbes, and the Apsilus bipera, recently communicated to the 

 Academy by Miss Foulke, all pertain to the same species. In the 

 recent specimens he had recognized the lateral antenna3 ending in 

 exceedingly delicate and motionless cils, as indicated by Meczin- 

 chow, and which previously, from the wrinkled condition of the 

 specimens detached from hard objects, had escaped his attention. 

 The structure described by Meczinchow as a ganglion, he could 

 not satisfactorily distinguish as such ; nor had he been able to 

 detect the arrangement of the excretory canals, as represented 

 by the same author. The lateral view of the animal accords with 

 the figure of Cupelopagus as given by, Forbes; the body being 

 ovoid, with the mouth of the prehensile cup oblique, and appearing 

 more or less unequally two-lipped. In this view the antenna? are 

 undistinguishable. In all the forms described, the prehensile cup, 

 in the same manner, is projected from and withdrawn within the 

 mouth of a compressed oval or nearly spherical carapace, dotted 

 with minute tubercles. The prehensile cnp, substituting the 

 usual rotary organs of rotifers, communicates with a capacious, 

 variably sacculated and dilatable stomach, followed by the ordi- 

 nary gizzard with its mastax,and then a second sacculated stomach. 

 The ovoidal cloacal pouch opens by an aperture, with radiated 

 folds, externally, some distance in advance of the fundus of the 

 carapace. 



The size of the different specimens described varies greatly, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



but nevertheless appears to gradate between the extremes. The 

 specimens recently examined were the smallest observed ; and in 

 the closed condition measured 0'32 to 0"35 mm. long by 0*3 to 

 0*32 mm. broad. Former ones described were from 0'35 to 0*6 

 mm. long by 0*28 to 0"5 mm. broad. For Ciipelopagus, Forbes 

 gives 0*64 mm. long by 0*56 broad ; and for Apsilus lentiformis, 

 Meczinchow gives 0*8 mm. long by 0*7 mm. broad. 



Miss FouLKE enquired whether Dr. Leidy had noticed the 

 secondary sacculated stomach. 



The President answered in the affirmative, and stated that the 

 secondary stomach was present in all the forms. 



Miss Foulke replied that none of the forms previously dis- 

 covered had been either fisured or described as possessing this 

 organ; that Dr. Leidy 's description coincided exactly with that 

 of Apsilus bipera, as given by the speaker ; and that, in any case, 

 should this form, though differing in every particular save the 

 structure of the mastax, prove to be identical with the Dictyo- 

 phora vorax of 1857, still the differences between Apsilus hipera^ 

 the Apsilus lentiformis of Meczinchow and the Gupelopagus of 

 Forbes — viz. : the difference in shape, the presence or absence of 

 antennae, of the secondary stomach, and of the ciliation of the 

 cup — remain the same, and must separate the forms until proof 

 of their identity can be given. 



A New Species of Trachelius. — Prof. H. Carvill Lewis, on 

 behalf of Miss S. Q. Foulke, made the following communication : 



Having poured some Schuylkill water, freshly drawn from the 

 spigot, into a tube, a white speck was noticed swimming freely 

 about. On being placed in a live-box, and examined with a power 

 of thirty-eight diameters, this speck proved to be a member of the 

 family Trachelidae, of Ehrciberg. 



The family Trachelid^e includes three genera: — Trachelius, 

 Amphileptus^ and Loxophyllum. 



The genus Trachelius consists of but one species, Trachelius 

 ovum (Ehr.), from which the form found in the Schuylkill water 

 differs considerably in shape. 



Trachelius ovum was described by Ehrenberg as possessing a 

 complex and profusely ramified oesophagus canal, and this opinion 

 was endorsed by Lieberkuhn, also b}' Claparede and Lachmann ; 

 but W. Saville Kent disputed the point, and believes the appear- 

 ance of the above structure to be given by the extreme vacuola- 

 tion of the protoplasm, which would lend a branched intestine-like 

 appearance to the intervening granular sarcode. The observations 

 of the writer, in this respect, entirely coincide with those of Mr. 

 Kent. 



Ehrenberg also placed in the genus Trachelius two other 

 species, A'iz., T. tricophora and T. dendropholus, but these forms, 

 being true flagellates, have been relegated to the genus Astasia. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



In appearance, the form now to be described is markedly convex 

 on the dorsal side, but is deeply indented longitudinally on the 

 ventral side. The sarcode is highly vacuolate, the vacuoles nar- 

 rowing towards the centre of the body. The fluid sarcode is 

 granular, and the surface of the body is covered with a network of 

 circles of various sizes, which, when enlarged three hundred 

 and fifty diameters, are seen to be minute globular vacuoles. 

 The snout-like prolongation, at the base of which is situated the 

 oral aperture, is shorter than is usually represented in Trachelius 

 ovum. 



The principal difference has regard to shape, Trachelius ovum, 

 being egg-shaped, as indicated by the name, while the form just 

 described is globosely convex dorsally, but flattened with a deep 

 indentation A'entrall3\ 



It is a curious fact, and one whose import is not very compli- 

 mentar}'^ to our water-supply, that the habitat of Trachelius is 

 universally given as bog-water. 



It is proposed to name this new species Trachelius Leidyi'm 



The following was ordered to be printed : — • 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



53 



aaajjpij 



ON A CABBONIFEBOUS AMMONITE FBOM TEXAS. 

 BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



Among a limited number of carboniferous fossils obtained 

 from the border of Wise County, Texas, and submitted to me 

 for examination by my friend, Mr. G. Howard Parker > a form 

 occurs which can unhesitatingly be referred to the family Am- 

 monitidse, and to the old genus Ammonites. Only a fragment of 

 a single individual of the form in question is to be found, and 

 this, unfortunately, has lost the shell, so that no external orna- 

 mentation, if any such existed, can now be detected. What 

 there is of the speci- 

 men, however, suflB- -^ 

 ciently indicates that 

 it was smooth, or des- 

 titute of ribs, and that 

 the decidedly globose 

 form was marked by 

 a strong involution of 

 the whorls, which ap- 

 pearalmost completely 

 embracing. The um- 

 bilical region cannot 

 be clearly made out. 

 The sutural lines of the 

 septa are very clearly 

 defined, and exhibit the ammonitic foliations in very nearly their 

 simplest expression. The lobes and saddles are numerous and 

 closely packed, the general appearance presented by them to the 

 unassisted eye being that of tessellation. 



The siphonal lobe is considerably' the largest, and is split into 

 two prominent tongues by the extension inwards of a deep sinus 

 having approximately the same width as the lateral prongs ; the 

 lateral prongs terminate each in two teeth, the inner one of which, 

 counting from the siphonal line, is somewhat longer than the 

 external ; the base of the lobal sinus produced anteriorly into 

 two acute sulci. The first lateral lobe terminates in two teeth, 

 the inner or siphonal one the shorter, truncated at the extrem- 

 ity, and sometimes exhibiting indications of apical division ; 



1. Fragments, natural size. 

 fled. 



2. Septal sutures, magnl- 




54 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



the second lateral lobes with three teeth, the median one of 

 which is the longest. The saddles are simply rounded, and 

 exhibit, as far as can be seen in the specimen, no traces of crenu- 

 lation or denticulation along the anterior margin. 



This is the first Ammonite, as far as I am aware, that has been 

 detected in any American formation below the mesozoic series. 

 The association with it of characteristic palaeozoic forms of life, 

 such as Zaphrentis, Phillipsia, Bellerojjhon, Gonularia, Chonetes, 

 and Productus, leaves no doubt as to its position, and hence we 

 must conclude that here, as well as in India, where Waagen first 

 announced the occurrence of true carboniferous ammonitic forms, 

 the distribution of this highly characteristic group of organisms 

 was not so rigidly defined by the mesozoic line as geologists had 

 been led to conclude. That pre-mesozoic Ammonites will be 

 discovered elsewhere besides in India and Texas there is no 

 reason to doubt ; indeed, no assumption could be more illogical 

 than the contrary — and, therefore, the present discovery is in no 

 way specially surprising, and only rather interesting than impor- 

 tant. Special interest, however, attaches to this form, as through 

 it and the individuals or fragments of individuals that have been 

 found in the Tejon (Tertiary) rocks of California,' we have 

 established in this country the extreme range of the group 

 which it represents. 



As to the relationship of the species which I propose to desig- 

 nate Ammonites Farkeri, it may be stated that, judged by such 

 characters as the fragment presents, a position must be assigned 

 to it near to A. antiquus, Waag., from the Productus-limestone 

 (Salt-Range), of Kufri, India, described and figured in the Palee- 

 ontologia Indica (ser. xiii, pp. 28-9, 1879), of the Geological 

 Survey, and which Waagen refers to the genus Arcestes of Suess. 

 A comparison between the septal sutures of our specimen and the 

 Indian one shows a remarkable similarity, indeed, one might 

 almost saj'' identit}', existing between the two, the type of struc- 

 ture being practically the same. The principal difference seems 

 to be some very slight and unimportant modification in the lobal 

 dcnticulations, and the emargination or depression which exists 

 in the saddle, or rather in some of the saddles of the Indian 



^ Heilprin, " On the Age of the Tejon Kocks of California, and the Occur- 

 rence of Ammonitic Remans in Tertiary Deposits." Proc. Acad. Nat, 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, July, 1882. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADLLPHIA. 55 



species. The acicular sulci which terminate the sinus in the 

 siphonal or median lobe do not appear in Waagen's drawing, but 

 as this is done on a small scale, the feature in question may have 

 been overlooked. In either case the septal plication is about 

 equally simple or primitive, and indicates a passage by which a 

 transition is effected from the more complicated forms to the still 

 simpler Goniatite. The discussion of the relationship existing 

 between the A. antiquus and certain Goniatitic forms described 

 by De Verneuil and Karpinsky from the sandstone of Artinsk, 

 equally applicable in its reference to the American species, is 

 fully set forth by Waagen {loc. cit.). 




56 rroceedings of the academy of [1884. 



March 11. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"A Review of the Amei*ican Species of the Genus Sphyrsena," 

 by Seth E. Meek and Robert Newland. 



" Catalogue of Plants collected in July, 1883, during an 

 Excursion along the Pacific Coast in Southeastern Alaska," by 

 Thomas Meehan. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



THE RUFOUS OR TH ITCHING AWT OF DAKOTA AND COLORADO. 

 By Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



During the autumn of 1883, I had a series of conversations 

 with Mr. B. S. Russell, an intelligent business man, resident at 

 Jamestown, Dakota, concerning a species of ant which inhabits 

 that Territory. At first I was inclined to think that the insect 

 which Mr. Russell described was the Occident ant, especially as 

 the popular name which it bears among the pioneers is the 

 " stinging ant," but further details caused me to suspect that the 

 habits described must be those of Formica rufa^ whose nests I 

 had observed in various parts of Colorado. I accordingly entered 

 into correspondence with Dr. R. G. De Puy, of Jamestown, who 

 forwarded me specimens which proved to be Formica rufa. I 

 also gave him a number of points to be noted, and directions as to 

 how to proceed in studying these points ; all of which were fol- 

 lowed up with accuracy and intelligence, that covered all my 

 inquiries. The notes which follow I have written out from the 

 observations of the two gentlemen above named, and those made 

 by myself in Colorado. 



Locality and Site. — The entire rolling prairie country lying 

 between the Cheyenne and James Rivers (Dakota), is dotted with 

 a vast number of ant-hills, which extend westwardly as far as the 

 Missouri River. Mr. Russell could not say whether they are to 

 be seen in the Red River Valley, which, however, is frequentl}'' 

 overflowed. I first met the hills of Rufa on the "Divide," north- 

 eastwardly from Colorado Springs. Subsequently I saw them in 

 South Park, and afterward in the vicinity of Leadville. They 

 were scattered here and there throughout the woods and clear- 

 ings, along the trails and near the diggings, within the limits and 

 suburbs of the " Camp," as the place was then (1879) called, and 

 were struggling with the miners, with varying success, to main- 

 tain their little " claims." I was struck by the fact that these 

 persistent creatures had been able to push up their domiciles to 

 such high sites, and to hold them against the rigors of the winter 

 frosts. 



Specimens sent me from Iowa Gulch, near Leadville, by Mr. C. 

 O. Shields, were taken from an elevation of 11,300 feet above the 

 level of the sea. 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



This characteristu; the Americaa Riifas have in common 

 with their European congeners; the F. rufa of Switzerland, for 

 example, is found as far up the Alps as the line of vegetation, 

 further progress being apparently limited by the lack of vege- 

 table growth rather than by the temperature.^ They may, there- 

 fore, be reckoned, both on this continent and Europe, as among 

 the most hardy of the ant fauna, best adapted to contend with 

 severities of cold. 



Extei~ior Architecture of Mounds. — The ant-hills in Dakota are 

 for the most part conical elevations, somewhat flattened at the 

 top (fig. 1). Some present the peculiarity of a square base, giving 

 the hill the shape of a pyramid, whose apex is rounded (fig. 2 ). Dr. 

 De Puy's measurements show heights varying from one foot and 



a half, to eight inches. 

 ,u^&Mi^^J^i^-W-'^.^:.y^kOHf, The slopes of the 



'WK/^?*'^:li^-';/.Js^^'i'^^^ sides in two cases are 



twenty-one and twen- 

 ty-three inches re- 

 spectively; two diam- 

 eters measured are 

 two feet, and one foot 

 six inches, respec- 

 tively; and one mound 

 gave a measurement 

 of ten feet around the 

 Fig. 1. Conical Mound. -Dakota. base. The mounds, 



according to Mr. Russell, average from twelve to fifteen inches 

 in height, and about eighteen inches in base diameter. They 

 are separated from each other by interspaces of from twenty to 

 sixty feet, and are scattered over the prairie in groups or " villages." 

 Dr. De Puy says that one may travel miles without seeing ant-hills, 

 and then come upon clusters of them. 



The mounds which I observed in Colorado were chiefly circular 

 elevations of earth, very much flattened at the top (fig. 3). They 

 varied greatly in size, but rarely rose to a greater height than 

 eight inches. One mound observed in South Park and figured, 

 was shaped like a stocking (fig. 4), an odd form certainl}^ and 



' Catalogue des Formicides d'' Europe, by Emory and Forel, p. 450, Mit- 

 theilungen der Schweizerischen entomologischen Gesellschaft. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 69 



probably caused by the colon}'^ pushing up the earth from two 

 independent centres, which in the course of time united. Future 

 labors might possibly correct this, and round the outlines to their 

 normal shape. I saw one formicary in South Park, which was 

 established under a large stone, along the edges of which the 

 gates or openings were placed. Another was seen on the Divide 

 beyond Colorado Springs, domiciled under an old log in a grove. 

 Here several ant-lions (Myrmeleon) had established themselves, 

 cannily digging their pits near the very gates of the formicary, 

 quite in the route of the outcoming and ingoing emmets. The 

 largest mound seen by me, and larger than any reported to me, 

 was found near the summit of the Ute Pass. It was a conical 

 heap, four feet long and about one foot high, and looked like a 

 small haycock. 



Thatching the Hoofs. — 

 This Ute Pass ant-hill was 

 thickly covered or thatched 

 with bits of wood, fallen 

 needles and broken sprigs of 

 pine, which had been gath- '"'-'-SSS^iil^lv.^^^^ 



ered from the forest debris, "'" -'-^^■'^^:^■"'^'^'-'^^■■'' 



1 • \ J J.1 • j.\ • FiQ.2. Mound with Square Base. —Dakota. 



lying abundantly in the vi- ^ 



cinit3\ All other mounds in South Park and around Leadville 

 were covered in a like manner, with stalks of grass, twigs, and 

 similar rubbish. 



The Dakota ant-hills are thatched in precisely the same way, 

 so that one can easily see the propriet}^ of giving the little artisan 

 the popular title of the Thatching ant. As the colony increases its 

 numbers, and the necessity of internal domestic economy requires 

 enlargement of the nurseries, rooms and galleries, the excavated 

 soil is brought up and naturally is laid upon the thatching. In 

 course of time a new roof of chips and clipped grass is overlaid, 

 and thus in the ordinary growth of a mound there would be an 

 alternation of layers of earth and vegetable substance, the latter 

 falling into decay in due season. This theory of the growth of 

 a hill is confirmed by samples of material taken by Dr. De Puy 

 from the interior of the Dakota mounds, which consists of partly 

 decomposed straw, mixed in smaller proportion with soil. The 

 mound-making ants of the Alleghenies {Formica exsectdides) 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



have a similar habit of thatching their hills, but this is not as 

 decidedl}^ developed and characteristic as with the Rufous ant ; 

 indeed, so far as my observation extends, it is the exception rather 

 than the rule. The thatching habit is possessed by the European 

 representatives of the species (F. rufa), in equal degree with 

 those of our Western plains. 



Interior Architecture. — I requested Dr. De Puy to open the 

 hills by sawing down through the middle to the surface of the 

 ground, and shoveling away one of the halves. This exposed a 

 section view of the interior, and presented the remarkable feature 



shown at fig. 5.^ The 

 central part of the 

 mound, on or about 

 the level of the sur- 

 face, was found to be 

 occupied by a ball of 

 twigs (B, fig. 5), about 

 eight inches in diam- 

 eter ; the sticks are 

 longer and thicker 

 than those used upon 

 the roof, some of them 

 being two aiid a half and three inches long. They were found 

 unmixed with soil or any other substance. Several galleries, 

 about one-fourth of an inch in diameter, led upward from tins 

 billet-globe to the surface, having their outlet by circular open- 

 ings (G) through the thatch. The openings, as seen by Dr. 

 De Puj^, were usuall^'^ near the summit and never more than three 

 in number. In Colorado mounds the openings were spread over 

 the top, and were more numerous. Beneath the faggot-ball a 

 series of galleries, seven in number, extended downward to at 

 least the distance of four and a half feet, the extent of the 

 excavation made by Dr. De Puy. For several inches, immediately 

 below the ball, the galleries were united into a network (n, fig. 



Fig. 3. Flat Circular Mound.— Colorado. 



^ I was unfortunately so situated in the South Park and elsewhere in 

 Colorado, in part by the presence of a sick companion, that I could not delay 

 to open the hills there seen, and make a study of the interior. But I have 

 no doubt that they are arranged like those in Dakota. Will not some 

 observer on that field test the matter by opening a few hills ? 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



5) of communicating ways, by galleries running crosswise. Be- 

 yond this, they descended separately, having no connection at 

 all, so far as could be observed. At the time that Dr. De Puy 

 opened this nest the ground was already frozen, making the dig- 

 ging quite difficult. No ants wei'e found except a few stragglers 

 who were encamped within the faggot-ball, the mass of the com- 

 munity having evidently taken up their winter-quarters in 

 regions further underground than the point reached, and not 

 improbably below the reach of frost. The purpose of the faggot- 

 ball can now only be conjectured. I can think of nothing quite 

 analogous to it in any formicary known to me ; it suggests the 

 globe of curled rootlets and dry grass which I have found within 

 the cavern of that hymenopterous all^^ of the ant, the humble-bee 

 (Bombus virginicus), and perhaps may serve the san^e purpose, 

 viz. : that of a general nurser^^ and common living-barracks for 

 the family. At least, I have no better conjecture to venture at 

 this time. It is curious to note such resemblances in habit 

 between distantly removed members of an order of insects ; but 

 the fact is no more, indeed not so much of a surprise, as to find 

 in the caves of the Texas Cutting ant (AUafervens) a leaf-paper 

 rudely-celled nest, the product of a habit which exists in perfec- 

 tion in those other hymenopterous allies, the paper-rqaking 

 wasps. 



Marriage Flight of the Sexes. — :Mr. Russell informed me that 

 the ants appear in the spring with the first vegetation, and by the 

 time of hay-harvest, the latter part of July, nunierous swarms pf 

 " flying ants " are seen. These, of course, are the yoijng males 

 and females who, being matured, abandon or are pushed out of 

 the home-nest for the marriage flight to meet and pair in the air. 

 At this period the swarms are very annoying to the inhabitants. 

 A person driving or riding over the prairie will find himself sudT 

 denly in the midst of one of these hosts. The insects settle upon 

 the body, creep into the openings of the clothes, and produce a 

 disagreeable sensation. Such a swarm settled upon the first 

 house which Mr. Russell built, and the carpenters were compelled 

 to abandon it while in the act of shingling the roof. In the hay- 

 field, the harvesters are often obliged to stop to fight off" the 

 winged hosts, and those in charge of the hay-wagon to abandon 

 for the time the stack which is being hauled to the barn, on 




62 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1884. 



account of the annoying creatures. The same is true of the 

 grain harvest which comes later, the appearance of the swarms 

 continuing throughout August and into September. The ants, 

 however, do not sting, my informant averred, notwithstanding 

 their popular title of " the stinging ants." The nervous irrita- 

 tion produced by contact with such numbers is the chief annoy- 

 ance. Some horses show great excitement under the visits of 





Fig. 4. Stocking-Shaped Mound.— Colorado. 



the swarms, to which the more stolid mule is quite indifferent. 

 These flying ants do not get angry when beaten off, and rush at 

 and follow after the parties attacking them as bees do; they 

 whirl round and round in dense masses^ alight upon an object 

 within their path, but show no sign of hostility or wish to pursue 

 human or other animals who approach them. The family of ants 

 to which this genus {Formica) belongs, has no members possessed 

 of true aculeate organs. The so-called "sting" is reallj^ pro- 

 duced by the insect " biting " or abrading the skin with its 

 mandibles, and then ejecting formic acid from its undeveloped 

 stinging organs into the wound. The smart of the acid is quite 

 severe. 



A Useful Insectivorous Habit. — Over against this annoyance 




1.884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Mr. Russell placed an odd advantage, which he had often 

 observed to be of some importance. When a grain-farm is to be 

 opened, and the prairie sod " broken," a large number of men 

 will be employed to manage the plows. These laborers are provided 

 with barracks or a " camp outfit," and by reason both of pei'sonal 

 uncleanliness, and the abundance of certain objectionable insects 

 in the prairie grass, soon become infested with parasites. Flannel 

 clothes and blankets are populous by the middle of June. The 

 manner in which the ants are turned in as scavengers may be 

 illustrated by one instance recited. 



" One of my camp cooks," said Mr. Russell, " came one day to 

 borrow a horse. ' What for?' I asked. ' I want to go out on the 

 prairie,' was the answer. ' Number Seven (the name of the camp) 

 is in a pretty lively condition ; and, to tell the truth, m3^ clothes 

 ai-e full of lice, and I want to go out to the ant-hills and get rid 

 of them.' 



" I gave the man the horse ; off he drove, stripped piece by 

 piece, and spread his duds and wraps upon the hills. In a few 

 moments they were fairly covered with ants who thoroughly 

 explored and cleaned every fibre, removing both insects and eggs. 

 The cook came back happj'' and clean. That was a constant 

 custom then (1880), and is continued by the camp people to this 

 day. The ' cleaning up ' takes the greater part of a day." 



The Dakotans have thus only discovered a formicarian habit 

 which the Indians of the plains, and old pioneers and campers, 

 utilized many years ago. 



Enemies and Destructive Agents. — In the " breaking season," 

 many of the ant-hills are torn up by the plows. At such times 

 flocks of blackbirds, both black and yellow-winged species, follow 

 in the furrows, and feed upon the ants. There seems to be no 

 end to the capacit}^ of these birds for this sort of food. The 

 tender larvae, exposed by the plowshare, are probably also 

 attractive morsels, but Mr. Russell could not say as to that; to 

 him the birds simply seemed to be picking up ants. 



In this connection a fact was related which may well excite 

 surprise. The prairie-fires often completel}^ destroy" the hills, burn 

 them quite up, and penetrate far enough beneath the surface to 

 leave a hole that would contain a bushel-basket ! This statement, 

 made early in the conversation and while I supposed that I was 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1884. 



t 



listening to some observations upon the Occident ant — for Mr. 

 Russell spoke of the insects by their popular name of " stinging 



ants " — awakened my 

 suspicion. I knew that 

 amass of gravel-covered 

 dirt, such as the genuine 

 stinging ants — the Occi- 

 dents — heap up, would 

 not melt away in such 

 wise before a prairie-flre. 

 A few questions satisfied 

 me that I was on the 

 wrong trail, and that no 

 other ant than Formica 

 rvfa could build a nest 

 ' ' 1 i ' ^ liable to such an acci- 



' '^ dent, and that even she 



could do so I confess I 

 seriously doubted. 

 \ I had no reason to dis- 



pute the veracity of my 

 , ' informant, but I thought 



5 • «' > < ' it quite as well to test 



J' ,^ I 5 h \\ his statements. Accord- 



I'l ''^. , '^ » = ^^ ' J' ^ ]]■• ingly I had Dr. De Puy 

 {^ '1 ^ '< ' '' send me samples of the 



' I ' ^ material of the mounds 



^ „ ^ at points below the sur- 



FiQ. 5. Half section of mound of F. rufa, 4 ft. 4 in. 

 below surface. B, central ball of sticks and straws; face. The rCSultS I have 

 SigiSi galleries; n, network of crossing galleries just 



below the ball ; G, gates. already mentioned, and 



they show that Mr. Russell's statement is entirely credible. The 

 heavy thatch of dried grass upon the roof, the mixture of soil 

 and decayed straw which composes the cone, the faggot-ball at 

 the heart of the hill, together make up a highly inflammable 

 mass. This freely feeds the flames that eat into the subsoil of 

 the prairie, which is decomposed clay and lime. Thus the story 

 of a casual lay observer, which might have been rejected with 

 apparent reason, was confirmed by careful examination. 



The mounds exposed to these prairie-fires are frequently pre- 

 served from destruction in a rather remarkable way. A narrow 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65 



belt of smooth soil generally surrounds the base of a hill (see 

 figures above), on the outer margin of which (in old formicaries 

 especially) springs up a circle of a tall, stiff, thick-stalked grass, 

 such as always grows upon the heaps which the badger throws 

 up when burrowing after gophers. This grass remains green 

 until late in the fall, and when the dry prairie is swept by the 

 flames, it stands as a breastwork around about the mounds, often 

 deflecting the fire or greatly modifying its destructive effects. In 

 this way the formicaries are kept safe within the girdling ranks 

 of the friendly plant. 



Concerning the effects upon the ants of the severe winters of 

 Dakota, I could get no information ; but as the frost is said to 

 penetrate to the distance of seven feet, I conjecture that the 

 insects must carry their galleries below that depth, though they 

 are doubtless capable of enduring a very low temperature. The 

 surface is thickly covered with snow during winter months, and 

 it is probable that the ants then are in a semi-torpid state. They 

 reappear in the spring with vegetation. It is a difficult matter to 

 exterminate a colony by artificial means. 



The saying is current among the people of this section, reported 

 both by Dr. De Puy and Mr. Russell, that if one wants to dig a 

 well he will find water by going down through an ant-hill. I 

 heard the same proverb in Texas applied to the Agricultural and 

 especially to the Cutting ants. My experience is that these 

 popular traditions often have some basis of truth, but in this case 

 I give little credit to the notion. As these Dakota ant-hills are 

 scattered over the whole rolling prairie country at not very great 

 intervals, tbere certainly can be no likelihood that the people will 

 ever lack water, as a well might be successfully sunk anywhere, 

 according to emmet indications. A rule of this sort could not be 

 worth much in such a country. In Texas the notion is based 

 upon a supposed necessity for the ants to have access to under- 

 ground sources of water. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



March 18. 

 The Rev. Dr. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Fifty-three persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Notes on Species of Fishes improperly ascribed to the Fauna 

 of North America." By David S. Jordan, 



" Notes on Tertiary Shells." By Otto Meyer. 



The deaths of Dr. A. L. Elwyn, a member, and of Dr. S. B. 

 Buckley, a correspondent, were announced. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp delivered a lecture on the study of biology 

 in Germany introductory to his spring course of lectures on 

 Invertebrate Zoolog3^ 



March 25. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine persons present. 

 The death of J. T. Audenried, a member, was announced. 



On Eiimeces chalcides. — Prof. Leidy remarked that the little 

 lizard presented this evening had been sent to him by a former 

 pupil, Dr. E. A. Sturge, of Petchaburi, Siam. It appears to be a 

 young individual of Eumeces chalcides Gunther, the Lacerta 

 chalcides of Lin., and Lygosoma hrachypoda of Dum. et Bib. It 

 is remarkable for its diminutive limbs, provided with five minute 

 toes. Dr. Sturge says the natives regard it as a snake ; and, as 

 is common in such cases, consider it to be venomous. 



The following were elected members : Albert S. Bolles,Ph. D., 

 R. W. Fitzell, and Jos. W. Grisoom, 



The following were elected correspondents : Ludwig von 

 Graff, of AschafFenberg ; G. Dewalque, of Liege ; Hans Bruno 

 Geinitz, of Dresden ; E. Renevier, of Geneva ; Henry N. Moseley, 

 of Oxford ; and J. T. Burdon Sanderson, of London. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS SPHYR^NA. 

 BY SETH E, MEEK AND ROBERT G. NEWLAND. 



The object of this paper is to give a review of the American 

 species of Sphyraena, with detailed descriptions of the four 

 species found on the Atlantic Coasts of America. The specimens 

 examined by us belong, in part, to the Museum of Indiana Uni- 

 versity ; the rest to the U. S. National Museum. All were collected 

 by Professor Jordan at Havana, Cuba; Key West, Fla., and 

 Wood's Holl, Mass. 



The two Pacific species have been full}^ described by Dr. 

 Steindachner (Ichthyol. Beitrage, vii, 18T8, 1-4). The remaining 

 species here mentioned, Sphyraena sphyraena, we have not seen. 



We are under obligations to Professor Jordan, for use of his 

 library and for valuable suggestions. 



Analysis of American species of Sphyraena. 



a. Scales large, t5 to 85 in lat. line ; origin of first dorsal behind 



root of A^entrals, over last third or fourth of pectorals ; 



body compressed ; lower jaw with fleshy tip ; maxillaiy 



reaching past front of orbit ; teeth large. picuda. 1. 



aa. Scales moderate, 110 to 130 in lat. line ; body subterete. 



h. Pectorals reaching the front of spinous dorsal ; maxillary 



reaching front of orbit ; origin of spinous dorsal behind 



root of ventrals. 



c. Lower jaw with fleshy tip ; teeth very strong ; scales 



in lat. line 110. ensis. 2. 



cc. Lower jaw without fleshy tip ; teeth strong ; lat. 



line 130. guaguanche. 3. 



hh. Pectorals not reaching front of first dorsal ; maxillary not 



reaching front of orbit. 



d. Eye large ; teeth small ; interorbital area convex; 

 median ridge of frontal grove not well de- 

 veloped, picudilla. 4. 

 dd. Eye small ; teeth larger ; interorbital space 

 flattish ; median ridge of frontal grove prom- 

 inent, borealis. .5. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884, 



aaa. Scales very small, 150 to 170 in lat. line ; origin of spinous 

 dorsal well behind tip of pectorals, before the vertical 

 from root of ventrals ; lower jaw with fleshy tip. 



e. Body very slender, depth 9 or 10 in length; 



scales in lat. line 150. sphyrsena. 6. 



ee. Body less slender; depth H in length; scales 



in lat. line IfiO to 170. argentea. 7. 



1. Sphyrsena picuda (Bloch and Schneider) Poey, G eot Barmcuda : Picuda. 



JJmhla minor marina (the Barracuda) Catesby, Fishes Carolina, ttc, 

 1731, tab. i. 



Picuda Parra, Feces y Crustaceos de Cuba, 1787, 90, tab. 35, f. 2. 



Sphyrmna sphyrana, var. pictida, Bloch and Schneider, Systemalchth., 

 1801, 110 (after Farra). 



Spliynena picuda J? oej, Memorias Cuba, i', 1860, 164 (Havana); Gvint'ier, 

 Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 1860, 836 (San Domingo, Fuerto Cabello, 

 Jamaica, West Indies, River Niger); Poey, Froc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1863, 179, 187 ("dentification of Paira's figure); Poey, Syn. I^isc. 

 Cub., 1868, 359 (Havana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 95 (Havana); 

 Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1876,62 (Bermudas); Goode and 

 Bean, Froc. U. S. Nat. Mus., i, 1878, 381 (name only); Goode, Froc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., ii, 1879, 116 (South Florida); GoodeandBean, Froc. 

 TJ. S. Nat. Mus., h, 1879, 342 (West Florida, no description) ; Goode 

 and Bean, Froc. U. S. Nat. Mus., ii, 1879, 146 (Cuba, Bermuda?, 

 W. Fla. and S. Fla.); Poey, Anal. Soc. Hist. Nat. Esp., 1881, 210 

 (Fuerto Rico); Goode and Bean, Froc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1882, 239 

 (Gulf of Mexico, no description); Jordan and Gilbert, Froc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., V, 1882, 589 (Charleston, S. C); Swain, Froc. Ac. Nat. 

 Sci. Phla., 1882, 307 (identification of Bsox barracuda, Shaw); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, BuU. U. S. Nat. Mus., 16, 1882, 412 (West 

 Indies). 

 ? Sphyrana becuna Lac^p^de, Hist. Nat. Poiss,, v, PI. 9, f. 3, 1803, from 

 a drawing by Plumier made at Martinique); ? Cuv, and Val., Hist. 

 Nat. Poiss., iii, 1829, 340 (after Lacepede); Guichenot, Ramon de la 

 Sagra, Hist. Cuba (Havana); Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 164 

 (Havana); Poey, op. cit., ii, 1860, 398 (identification with S. picuda; 

 species repvidianda). 



£!sox barracuda Shaw, Gen. Zool., v, 1804, 105 (based on Catesby). 



Sphyrcsna barracuda Cuv. and Val., op. cit., iii, 1829, 343 (Brazil); 

 Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 398 (species repudianda); Cope, 

 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. PhUa., 1871, 472 (St, Martins). 



Habitat. — West Indies and Brazil ; north to Pensacola, Charles- 

 ton and the Bermudas. 



Head 3 in length ; depth 2 in head. D. V-1, 9 ; A. 1-9. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Scales 10-15 to 85-10 (the cross series counted from lateral 

 line to front of dorsal and anal fins respectively). 



Body oblong, slightly compressed, covered with large scales. 

 Head large, maxillary large, nearly ^ length of head, its posterior 

 margin reaching past front of orbit. Lower jaw, with fleshy tip, 

 bluntly conical. Eye rather small, about 6 in head, equals width 

 of interorbital area. Interorbital area concave, with a shallow 

 median groove (as wide a pupil, at posterior edge of orbit), 

 divided by a ridge in front and behind. Supraocular ridge bony 

 and striate. Preocular ridge present. 



Teeth large ; premaxillary teeth small, little compressed, ir- 

 regularly set, nearly uniform in size, somewhat thicker and 

 shorter posteriorly ; premaxillary with two pairs of very large 

 compressed teeth, their length more than half width of pupil; 

 anterior ones directed downwards, posterior ones downwaixls and 

 backwards ; teeth in lateral series of lower jaw small anteriorly, 

 increasing gradually backwards, when they nearly equal those on 

 palatines ; palatine teeth similar to those on lower jaw, arranged 

 in reversed order. 



Distance from tip of snout to front of first dorsal 2f in body ; 

 second dorsal spine longest, H in snout; second dorsal and anal 

 equal ; anal inserted under first third of soft dorsal ; caudal 

 forked, upper lobe the longest ; pectorals reaching beyond front 

 of dorsal, 2j in head ; origin of first dorsal slightl}' behind the 

 ventrals ; cheeks and opercles scaly, about twelve rows of scales 

 on cheeks ; ui)per part of head with small imbedded scales. 



Color silvery, darker above; sides in young with about ten 

 dark blotches, which break up and disappear with age. Some 

 inkj^ spots, usually on posterior part of body, are very conspicuous 

 in both old and young specimens. Soft dorsal, anal and ventral 

 fins black, except on margins. Pectorals plain, exce[)t upper 

 part of its margin, which is black. Fins of very 3'oung specimens 

 nearly plain. 



This description is made from an examination of some forty 

 specimens, varying in length from two and three-fourths inches 

 to twenty-eight inches. Nearly all were collected by Professor 

 Jordan, at Key West, Florida ; a few at Havana, Cuba. 



This appears to be the largest of the Barracudas, reaching a 

 length of at least five or six feet. Its mouth is larger and armed 

 with larger teeth than in any other of our species. 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



Below is given a table of measurements of six specimens from 

 Key West. Tlie proportions are given in hundredtlis of tbie 

 length from tip of snout to end of last vertebra. 



2. Sphyrsena ensis .Jordan arid Gilbert. 



Sphyrcena forsteri Steindachner, Ichth. Beitriige vii, 1878, 4 [Cape San 

 Lucas to Monterey (not of Cuv. and Val., an East Indian species, as 

 yet not certainly recognized)]. 

 Sphyrmna ensis Jordan and Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 

 106 (Mazatlan) ; Jordan and Gilbeit, op. cit., ii, 1882, 109 (Panama, 

 no description); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1882, 

 624 (Panama ; no description). 

 Habitat. — Pacific Coast of America from Cape San Lucas to 

 Panama (East Indies ?). 



3. Sphyraena guaguanche Cuv. and Val. Gnngnfinche : (luarju'^nche Pelon. 



Sphyrmna guacJiancho Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1829, 342 

 (Havana ; on a drawing by Poey; lapsus iov guaguanche); Guichenot, 

 Ramon de la Sagra, Hist. Cuba, 165 (Havana). 

 Sphyrcena guaguanche Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 166 (Havana); 



Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 96 (Havana), 

 SphyroRTia gtiaguancho Goode and Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., ii, 1879, 

 146 (Wood's HoU, Mass^.; Ptnsacola, Fla.; Cuba); Goode and Bean, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1882, 239 (Gulf of Mexico ; no description); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1883, 411; Jordan, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884 (Pensacola, Fla.). 

 ? Sphyraina guntJieri Haly, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser, iv, vol. xv, 

 p. 270 (Colon; fide Steind.); Steindachner, Ichtliyol. Beitriige, vii, 

 1878, 6 (after Haly). 

 Habitat. — West Indies, north to Wood's Holl, Mass., and 

 Pensacola, Florida. 



Head 3j in length ; depth 2 in head, D. V-1, 9 ; A. 1-8 ; scales 

 in lateral line 120 to 130. 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



Body rather slender, subterete, covered with moderate-sized 

 scales; head large; maxillary small, less than ^ head, scarcely 

 reaching orbit ; lower jaw bluntly conical, without fleshy tip ; 

 Eye rather large, 5| in head, a little exceeding interorbital area ; 

 interorbital area flat ; median groove very shallow, the median 

 longitudinal ridge very small, anterior ; supraocular ridge bony, 

 striate ; preocular ridge large. 



Premaxillary teeth small, 35-40 in number ; premaxillar}"^ 

 teeth present ; anterior palatine teeth larger and more compressed 

 than those on premaxillary, widely set, decreasing in length 

 gradually ; teeth in lateral series of lower jaw small and closely- 

 set anteriorly, larger and wide-set posteriorly, about 10 in number ; 

 a large compressed tooth at symphysis. 



Origin of first dorsal over above tip of pectoral, slightly behind 

 the ventrals ; distance between dorsals 5j in body ; distance from 

 tip of snout to spinous dorsal 2^11 body; scales moderate, almost 

 uniform in size ; cheeks and opercles scaly ; upper part of head 

 with small imbedded scales. 



Color light olive, yellowish on soft dorsal; anal and ventral tips 

 of caudal rays black ; top of head dark ; dark punctulations oh 

 upper part of body ; spinous dorsal with some dark punctulations. 



The description of this species is taken from three specimens 

 from Havana, Cuba, varying in length from six and one-half to 

 eight inches, and from one specimen collected by Mr. Stearns, 

 from Pensacola, Fla., nineteen inches in length. 



Below is given a table of measurements of specimens we have 

 examined. The proportions are given in hundredths of length 

 from tip of snout to the end of last vertebra. 



Pen- 

 sacola, 

 Fla. 



Havana, Cuba. 



Extreme length in inches, 



Length of fish from end of snout to last caudal 



vertebra in inches, 



Greatest depth of body (hundredths of length), 



Ltnyth of head, 



Diameter of eye, 



Lngth of maxillary, 



Width of interorbital area, 



Width of bas3 of pectorals, 



Length of pectorals, 



Distance from origin of s-pinous djrsal to end 



of snout, 



Distance from end of snout to root of ventrals, 

 Distance between dorsal fins, . . . . . . 



19. 



7.5 6.75 



15.75 



16.5 



30. 



5. 



15.5 

 4.5 

 2.5 



42.5 



38.5 

 20. 



6.12 

 17. 

 35. 



6. 

 15. 



5. 



8. 

 13. 



46. 

 43. 

 Id. 



5.5 

 14.75 

 32. 



6. 

 14.5 



5. 



3. 

 13. 



44.5 

 40.5 

 17. 



6.5 



4.9 

 14. 

 83. 



6. 

 15. 



5. 



8. 

 12. 



47. 

 42. 



18.5 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



We have not seen the original description of Sphijrsena 

 guntheri Haly, from Colon (Aspinwall), The abridged descrip- 

 tion given by Steindachner agrees fully with S. guaguanche. 

 We follow Poey in restoring the correct orthography of the 

 name, Guaguanche. 



4. Sphyraena picudilla Po°y. Picudilla. 



Sphyrmna barracuda Guichenot, Ramon de la Sagra, Hist. Cuba, 165 



(Cuba ; fide Poey). 

 Sphyroina picudilla Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 163, 163, 398 



(Havana); Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuba, 1868, 359 (Havana); Poey, Enum. 



Pise. Cub., 1875, 96 (Havana). 



Habitat. — Coasts of Cuba. 



Head 3^ in body ; depth 2| in head, D. Y-1, 9 ; A. 1-9 ; scales 

 in lateral line 110. 



Body rather robust, subterete, covered with scales of moderate 

 size ; head rather large ; maxillary rather small, about 2| in head, 

 not reaching orbit. 



Jaw with fleshy tip, bluntly conical ; e3'e large, about 5 in 

 head, 1^ times interorbital space ; interorbital area flattish ; 

 median groove shallow, divided by a very indistinct median 

 ridge; supraocular ridge bony, striate; preocular ridge rather 

 prominent. 



Premaxillary teeth small, subconical ; dentition as in Sphyraena 

 horealis^ but slightly weaker ; position of spinous dorsal, in com- 

 parison to ventrals, variable ; distance from tip of snout to origin 

 of spinous dorsal about 2^^^ in body ; pectorals not reaching spinous 

 dorsal ; space separating dorsals about 5^ in body ; second dorsal 

 equal to and somewhat in advance of anal ; cheeks and opercles 

 scaly ; small imbedded scales on upper part of head ; scales on body 

 moderate, uniform in size. Color light olive, darker abo^'^e ; soft 

 dorsal, anal and ventral fins yellowish ; spinous dorsal and pec- 

 torals darker ; upper parts of preoperele and opercle each with a 

 dark spot ; top of head and tip of snout blackish. 



S. picudilla is very closely allied to Si borealis. Its eye is, 

 however, much larger (when specimens similar in size are com- 

 pared), and the frontal groove is somewhat different. 



The description of this species is taken from four specimens 

 collected by Professor Jordan in Havana, Cuba. 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



73 



Below is given a table of measurements of the specimens we 

 have examined. The proportions are given in hundredths of the 

 length from the tip of snout to end of last vertebra. 



Extreme length of fish in inches, 



Length of fish from end of snout to last caudal 



vertebra in inches, 



Greatest depth of body (hundredths of length), 



Length of head, 



Diameter of eye, 



Length of maxillary, 



Width of interorbital area, 



Width of base of pectorals, 



Length of pectorals, 



Distance from end of snout to origin of spinous 



dorsal, . 



Distance from end of snout to root of ventrals, 

 Distance between dorsal fins, 



Havana, Cuba. 



11.75 



9.85 

 14. 

 32.5 



6.25 

 12.25 



4.5 



3. 

 10. 



47.. 

 47. 

 17.25 



11.5 



9.66 

 14.50 

 31. 



6. 

 12. 



4.5 



3. 



9.5 



47. 

 47. 

 17.50 



11.25 



9.4 

 14.25 

 32. 



6. 

 12. 



4.5 



3. 



9. 



47. 

 48. 

 17.75 



9.5 



7.85 

 14. 

 32.25 



6.75 

 12. 



4.5 



3. 



46.25 



46. 



17.25 



6. Sphyraena borealis De Kay. Northern Barractida. 



Sphyrcena borealis De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes,1842, 37, pi. 60,f 196 (New 

 York); Storer, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1846 (48); Baird, Ninth Smith- 

 sonian Kept., 1854, 12 (Beasley's Point, N. J.); Gill, Kep. U. S. Fish 

 Com., 1872, 808 (no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., i, 1878, 381 (Beaufort, N. C, no description); Goode and Bean, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., ii, 1879, 146 (Wood's Holl, Mass.); Bean, Proc. 

 r. S. Nat. Mus., iii, 1880, 102 (Wood's Holl, Mass., no description). 



Sphyrcena spet Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., i, 1878, 381 

 (Wood's Holl, Mass.); Jordan and Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1883, 

 411 (in part ; not of Lacepede). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of U. S. from Cape Cod to North 

 Carolina. 



Head 3 in length ; depth 2§ ; D. V-1, 9 ; A. 1-9 ; scales in lateral 

 line 115-130. 



Body rather slender, subterete, covered with moderate-sized 

 scales ; head large, maxillary small, less than ^ head, not reaching 

 front of orbit by i diameter of eye ; lower jaw with fleshy tip, 

 bluntly conical ; eye rather small, about 6 in head, scarcely ex- 

 ceeding width of interorbital area; interorbital area convex; 

 median groove very shallow, divided by a distinct longitudinal 

 ridge, especially well-defined immediately before nostrils ; supra- 

 ocular ridge striate ; preocular ridge moderate. 



Premaxillary teeth small, about 40 in number; front of pre- 

 maxillary with two pairs of large teeth (sometimes accom- 

 6 




Y4 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



panied by smaller ones), canine-like ; anterior smallest, directed 

 downwards, posterior ones downwards and backwards; anterior 

 palatines larger than premaxillary teeth, and more compressed 

 and widelj^-set ; posterior ones small and closely-set ; order of teeth 

 on lower jaw reversed, but similar to those on the palatines, and 

 smaller, about 10 in series ; large tooth near tip of lower jaw present. 



Origin of dorsal over or slightly in advance of ventrals, well 

 behind point of pectorals ; distance between dorsal fins 5^ in 

 length of body ; distance from tip of snout to spinous dorsal 2tV 

 in body ; scales moderate, somewhat larger behind soft dorsal and 

 anal ; cheeks and opercles scaly ; small imbedded scales on upper 

 parts of head. 



Color olivaceous, silvery below ; young with dusky blotches 

 across the back and along the lateral line. 



This description is made from eight specimens collected by 

 Professor Jordan at Wood's Holl, Mass., which vary in length 

 from six and one-fourth to eight and one-half inches. The species 

 does not appear to reach a length of much more than a foot. 

 This species shows several points of similarity to Sphyrsena 

 splujrsena. It is, however, unlikely that the two are specifically 

 •identical. 



Below is given a table of four specimens. The proportions are 

 given in hundredths of length from tip of snout to end of last 

 vertebra. 



Extreme length of fish in inches, 



Length of fish from end of snout to last caudal 



vertebra in inches, 



Greatest depth of body (himdredths of length), 



Length of head, 



Diameter of eye, 



Length of maxillary, 



Width of interorbital area, 



Distance from end of snout to origin of spinous 



dorsal, 



Distance from end of snout to root of ventrals. 



Wood's Holl. 



6.5 



5.5 

 13. 

 34. 



5. 

 14.5 



4.5 



47.5 

 48. 



5.5 

 12. 

 33.5 



6. 

 13.75 



5. 



49. 

 49. 



5.2 



13. 

 32. 



5.5 



12.5 



4. 



46. 

 46. 



5.3 

 12. 

 35. 



6. 

 15. 



5. 



49. 

 49. 



6. Sphyrsena sphyrsena (Linnseus) Bloch. Spet. Barracuda. Sennet. 



Sphyrcena et SucUs auctorum Artedi, Gen. Pise, 1738, 84 (Coasts of 



Italy). 

 Esox dorso dipterygio Linnaeus, Mus. Ad. Fried., ii, 1754, 100. 

 Esoxspnyr(P.nah\m\si\\s, Syst. Nat, Ed. 10, i, 1758, 313; Ed. 12, i, 1766, 



515 (based on Artedi); Gmelin, Syst. Nat., i, 1788, 1389. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Sphyrmna sphyrana Bloch, Ichth., 1797, taf. ccclxxxix; Schneider, 

 Bloch, Syst. Ichth., 1801, 109; Risso, Ichth. Nice, 1810, 333 (Nice). 



Esox spet Haiiy, Encyclopedie Methodique, iii, Poissons, 1787. 



Sphyr<ena spet Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., v, 1803, 326-8; Bonaparte, 

 Iconografia della Fauna Italica, iii, Pesci plate with part 152 (Medi- 

 terranean); Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1876, 61 (Bermudas). 



Sphyrmna, vulgaris Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1829, 327 

 (Mediterranean); Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., ii, 1861, 334 

 (Med terranean and Lanzarote); Giinther, Shore Fishes, Challenger, 

 1880, 3 (St. Jago) ; no description. 



Sphyroena viridensis Cuv. and Val., op. cit.; iii, 1829, 339 (St. Jago, 

 Cape Verde Islands). 

 Habitat. — Coasts of Southern Europe and Northern Africa. 

 Islands of Atlantic (Cape Yerde ; Madeiras; Bermudas). 



7. Sphyraena argentea Qirard. California Barracuda. 



Sphyrena argentea Girard, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vii, 1854, 144 

 (San Diego); Girard, Pac. R. R. Survey, 1859, 59, pi. xiv, 1 (San 

 Diego); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 1860, 338 (San Diego); Stein- 

 dachner, Ichthol. Beitrage, vii, 1 (Cape San Lucas to Monterey); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, iii, 29 (San Diego); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, op. cit., 1880, iii, 456 (San Francisco, Monterey, 

 Santa Barbara, San Pedro and San Diego; no description); Jordan 

 and Jouy, op. cit., iv, 1881, 13 (San Pedro and Santa Barbara); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, op. cit., iv, 1881, 44 (Monterey to Santa Barbara); 

 Jordan and Gilbert, op. cit., v, 1883, 358 (identification of Sphyrcena 

 lucasana Gill; Cape San Lucas). 



Spliyroena lucasana Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 86 (Cape 

 San Lucas). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of America from San Francisco to Cape 

 San Lucas. 



This species reaches a length of about three feet. We are not able 

 to positively distinguish this species from the published accounts 

 of S. sphyraena. We have, however, no doubt that differences 

 will appear on the actual comparison of specimens. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



CATALOGUE OF PLANTS COLLECTED IN JULY, 1883, DURING AN EXCUE- 

 SION ALONG THE PACIFIC COAST IN SOUTHEASTERN ALASKA. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Few new plants have been discovered along the northern 

 Pacific coast, since its examination by the naturalists who accom- 

 panied the navigators and explorers of the earlier part of the 

 century ; and the results of their labors, as given in Rothrock's 

 Flora of Alaska^ the Geological Survey of Canada^ and other 

 lists, seem scarcely to warrant any addition to the botanical 

 literature of this part of the continent. The local histories of 

 these plants are, however, yet not well known ; and it seems to 

 me I may add a little to this knowledge b}^ some account of the 

 collection made during July, 1883, in a short trip on the " Idaho," 

 a mail steamer from Portland to Sitka, and trading at vari- 

 ous points along the coast at many Indian-fishing settlements. 



My object in the journey was simply to get a glance at this 

 interesting country, and the price demanded by the company for 

 my wife, son, and myself, $315, for first-class accommodations for 

 a month, not seeming unreasonable, we took the journey. The 

 only opportunity for collecting was during the few hours spent 

 in taking out and re-shipping stores at the stopping places ; and 

 the fact that in this short time and hurried gathering, I was able 

 to collect 275 species, indicates a greater richness of the flora 

 than I expected before starting on the journey. In a number of 

 places, also, the botanizing had to be done under an umbrella in 

 pouring rain, which wholly forbade entrance into the forests, and 

 led to an examination of the shore-lines alone. Rothrock's list 

 embraces but 590 species, including grasses and carices, which, 

 fearing I should not have time in my rapid journey, I seldom 

 touched. My impression is that when we shall have had better 

 opportunities of examining the interior of the territory, the list of 

 Alaskan plants will be still more largely increased. It is true mj'list 

 embraces the contiguous territory ; but probably all north of the 

 Columbia River — of the Straits of Fuca at least — may be regarded 

 as one geographical area up and down which plants may be 

 expected to travel. 



Since the publication of Rothrock's Catalogue, other collectors 

 have added to our kno^-ledge of localities, though their work has 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7t 



not been published. The Herbft,rium of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia is rich through the labors of Harrington, 

 Kellogg and Davidson, and the author is indebted in a great 

 measure to their specimens for assistance in the identification of 

 his own. 



The collection made at Bartlett (sometimes called Hood's) 

 Bay, is probably the first made at that point ; and it is the interest 

 attached to this that, chiefly, leads the author to publish the 

 paper. 



On our return from Chilcat (written Tchillcat in some 

 charts) down the Lynn Channel, we ran up Icy Straits into Gla- 

 cier Bay, to the fifth or Muir Great Glacier ; and on our return, 

 passed in between the Beardslee Islands to the mainland at a 

 point opposite Cross or Icy Sound in about lat. 58.30, called on 

 our chart Bartlett Bay. This is on a peninsula formed by the 

 junction of Icy Sound with the Lynn Channel, and nothing seems 

 to be known of this immense tract of land, except what can be 

 gathered from the not over-friendly Indians who live along the 

 coast in the fishing season. An Indian trader, Mr. Richai'd Wil- 

 loughby, told the author that at a point about twenty-five miles 

 above this he had traveled northwest across the peninsula for 

 some forty miles to Pyramid Harbor, near the mouth of the Chil- 

 cat, as he was understood to sa3^ wholly on ice. It is quite 

 probable that at about a hundred miles north from Bartlett Bay 

 the country is a vast ice-sheet, and there were circumstances 

 which seemed clearly to show that at no great distance of time 

 in the past the whole of the western portion of this peninsula was 

 covered by ice ; while on the eastern shore, on Lynn Channel, 

 the forest trees showed the mixture of trees of various ages 

 common to old forests ; the forests of the western slope were all 

 comparatively young, and none were evidently over fifty years 

 of age. The earth to fifty feet or more in depth in many places 

 was composed wholly of glacial drift, and on this were the young 

 forest trees. Some remarks on these features more in detail are 

 given at page 187, 1883, of the Proceedings of the Academy. Since 

 they were published, Mr. Dall has kindly informed the author 

 that there is historical evidence to show that this part was 

 covered by ice at about the end of the past century. This being 

 so, it becomes a matter of considerable interest to ascertain how 

 so many plants have maintained an existence here — whether they 




•78 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



have appeared since the recession of the ice, or whether they 

 managed to retain their hold during the whole continuance of 

 the ice-sheet. 



At our landing place a small stream entered the ocean, and 

 this stream came through a swampy vallej^ a few hundred feet 

 wide, extending into the land for an unknown distance. The 

 hills of drift were on each side of this valley. All the planfcs were 

 collected within a quarter of a mile of the mouth of this stream, 

 and there is every reason to believe that a larger number of 

 species might have been collected had there been time or oppor- 

 tunity for more inland research along its line. By the margin of 

 the swamp were rocks from five to ten or twenty feet above its 

 ground level, and not covered by drift ; but on the more level 

 rocks often with a few feet of sand, which had evidently blown 

 in during the course of years. Yet with every opportunity to 

 do so had there been time for the work, very few of the plants 

 along the line of the stream had extended to the drift deposits 

 close by. These plants were not brought there by the drift. We 

 may say almost with certainty that they were there during the 

 period when the land was covered by ice. How did they manage 

 to maintain themselves under these circumstances ? Were they 

 wholly covered by ice ? or were there rifts and clefts in the ice- 

 sheet deep enough to allow plants a summer of recuperation? 



I think we need not regard the last consideration as one of 

 necessity. There is reason to believe that under a low tempera- 

 ture plants will retain vital power for an indefinite period. Mr. 

 Douglas, of Waukegan, Illinois, once sent to me young trees of 

 Gatalpa speciosa, that had been placed in sand in a cool cellar and 

 forgotten a year, and that remained the whole twelve months 

 dormant, and grew the next year when planted out. Dr. Max- 

 well T. Masters, of London, has called attention to the case of 

 aii orchid which, as I remember, remained under ground a whole 

 season without growing, and this has been adduced as a probable 

 explanation of the non-appearance in some seasons of plants 

 which are plentiful in others. If a plant will remain dormant 

 one, two or three years under unfavorable conditions for growth, 

 who shall say how much longer a period the}' ma}' not live, 

 under conditions favorable to dormancy onl}' ? I have a strong 

 suspicion that just at or below the freezing-point roots may live 

 for an unlimited number of years ; and that a district might be 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Y9 



covered b}' an ice-sheet for a quarter of a century or more, and 

 the plants beneath retain full vital powers. 



By referring again to my remarks on some geological features 

 of this part of Alaska (page 183, Proc. Ac, as cited), it will be seen 

 by a sunken forest of apparently modern trees there is reason to 

 believe that in comparatively recent times this peninsula was 

 clothed with a rich vegetation — that it was of a sudden partially 

 submerged and perhaps as suddenly elevated again a little — and 

 that all these changes have been the work of but a few hundred 

 years. The plants in question have probably survived through 

 all these changes, though perhaps wholly ice-covered at times, 

 and have not been brought here by modern agencies ; and if these 

 suggestions, which are offered only as great probabilities, should 

 get fuller confirmation from any one in the future who may have 

 opportunities of going more fully into an investigation of the 

 spot, it will give additional interest to the study of botany in 

 connection with the great changes which have been going on over 

 the surface of our globe. 



From other botanical evidences which southeastern Alaska 

 afl[brds, I am inclined to believe that geological changes in this 

 section have not required the long periods to effect which geolo- 

 gists usually demand. In the vicinity of the Davidson Glacier, 

 a little below Pyramid Harbor, layers of ice maybe seen covered 

 by sand and earth, and prevented from rapid thawing — only an 

 occasional spot showing the icy bed beneath — and yet alder and 

 other plants grow within a few hundred yards. On the other 

 hand, near the Muir Glacier, at the point where the river-bed 

 beneath the ice diverges from the glacier's direct course, the 

 only sign of arborescent vegetation is from a few score of willow- 

 bushes, scattered on the mountain-side. Beneath the drift, hun- 

 dreds of feet below, is a forest buried as it grew. Pines, alders, 

 and similar plants spread so readily in this region, that these 

 bare hill-sides would assuredly be clothed thickly with a forest 

 vegetation, thus replacing the forests which have been swept away, 

 if there had been time enough for the purpose. The immense 

 area and great depth of these treeless drift formations would 

 surely be regarded as requiring perhaps many centuries for 

 deposit, but for the evidence which the botanical observations 

 afford that the whole change must have taken place within very 

 I'ecent times. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



• In making the catalogue I have followed the example set by 

 Mr. Watson, in the Bibliographical Index ; a general view of the 

 relation of the species to each other is furnished by the natural 

 orders in systematic sequence — all the rest is alphabetical. In 

 a sj'stematic work on botany, an alphabetical index appears at 

 the end. A catalogue should be itself an index, as its chief use 

 is for reference and not for systematic study. 



RANUNCULACE^. 

 Aconitum napellus Linn, Harrisburg, Alask^. 

 Actsea spicata, var. arguta Watson. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 

 Aquilegia formosa Fiscb. Harrisburg, Alaska. 

 Caltha palustris L. Pyramid Harbor, Harrisburg, Alaska. 

 Coptis asplenifolia Salisb, Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



Seen also at Sitka and many places through Alaska, but 

 very seldom could I find fruit. The fine specimens from Fort 

 Wrangel were the only good ones found, and I had to look a 

 long time there among the plants before any were seen. 



Sanuncalas flammula, var. reptans Meyer. Departure Bay, B. C, in summer- 

 dried, muddy places. 

 S. orthorhynchus Hook. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



Some of the flowers were of a deep orange-brown, but mostl}^ 



of an ordinary butter-cup yellow. Plant three to four feet high. 



B. recurvatus Poir. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



B. repens L. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



CRUCIFBR^. 



Arabis alpina L. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 



A. hirsuta Scop. Chilcat Inlet, Harrisburg, Alaska. 



A. petrsea, var. ambigua Kegel. Cbilcat Inlet, Harrisburg, Killisnow Island. 



Common on rocks in Alaska. 

 Cochlearia Anglica L. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



C. officinalis L. Idaho Inlet, a newly explored arm of Cross Sound, by our s' earner 



" Idaho." 



A small form growing in mud, covered at high tide. Plants 

 from half inch to one and one-half inches in length, in full flower, 

 but no mature fruit. 

 Erysimum cheiranthoides L. Killisnow i Island, Alaska. 



But common through the territory, growing from one foot 

 high to sometimes five feet. 

 Hasturtinm amphibium R. Br. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



' Kenasnow on some maps. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



VIOLACE^. 



Viola sarmentosa Dougl. Harrisburg, Alaska. Perfect flowering. 



V. sarmentosa. In open gravelly places. Departure Bay, Alaska. Cleistogamous. 



Arenaria lateriflora L. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



Cerastium alpinum L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Honkenya peploides Ehrb. Killisnotr Island, Alaska. 



I did not see Indians eating this, but I saw it in their 

 canoes, brought from places where it grew ; and often saw pieces 

 lying around where their camp-fires had been. I believe they 

 cook and eat it. 



Spergula arvensis L. Harrisburg, Alaska; clefts of rocks by the seaside. 



Stellaria borealis Bigel. Harrisburg, Sitka, Alaska. 



S. crispa Ch. and Sch. Pyramid Harbor, Harrisburg, Alaska. Common. 



S. longifolia Muhl. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



Sagina prooumbens L. Sitka, Alaska. 



PORTULACACEiE. 



Claytonia sarmentosa C. A. Mey. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



This is evidently the plant intended by Pursh as G. lanceolata, 

 but I believe my plant is what is regarded as above. It is com- 

 mon along the coast, and is extremely variable. Eaten by 

 Indians. 



Montia fontana L. Sitka, Alaska. 



I saw only some half dozen small plants under a cabin set on 

 logs, and suspected it was an introduced plant. 



HYPERICACE-ai. 



Hypericum Soouleri Hook. Departure Bay, B. C. 



MALVACE.ZE3. 



Eidaloea malvseflora Gray. Victoria, B. C. 



This appears to me somewhat different from the plant of the 

 more southern portion of the continent ; but Mr. Serano Watson 

 decides it to be this species. Two to three feet high, 



GERANIACE^. 



Geraniam erianthum D. C. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 

 G. pusillum Lin. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. 

 Impatiens falva Nutt.* Harrisburg, Alaska. 



SAPINDACEiE. 



Acer rubrum L. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884, 



LEGUMINOS^. 



Astragalus alpinus L. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



A. hypoglottis L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Lathyrus maritimus Bigl. Pyramid Harbor, A'aska. 



Lupinus Nookatensis Don. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



L, micrantlius Doug. Victoria, B. C. 



Oxytropis Lambe''ti Pursh. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska, 



Fsoralea physodes Dougl. Port Townsend, W. T. 



More capitate than I have before seen- it. 



Trifolium involuoratum Willd. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. 



T microdon Hook. Port Townsend, W. T.; Victoria, B. C. 



Vicia gigantea Hook. Sitka; Killisnow Island, and other places in Alaska. 



ROSACEA. 



Amelanchia alnifolia Nutt. Astoria, Or. 



A dwarf variety, with large bhick, and excellent fruit. 



Dryas octopetela L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Plants without inflorescence. Glacier Ba3% near Muir Glacier, 

 a single large plant with fruit, on a moraine deposit. 



Fragaria chilensis Duch. Chilcat Inlet, Alaska, also in Bartlett Bay. 



This species interested me by the dark color of the upper sur- 

 face of the leaves as contrasted with the lower ; the deeply 

 incised first (autumn) leaves; the enormous runners, often two 

 feet long before bearing a plant ; the very long — often over a 

 foot — and slender common peduncles of the later flowers, and 

 very short, often nearl}' sessile common peduncles of the earliest 

 flowers ; the very large flowers; and pale, scarcely red fruit. The 

 Indian boys and girls go out and collect them, as our boys and 

 girls do. At Killisnow Island, I did not see them growing, but 

 Indian women bi'ought them to our landing, and knew enough of 

 our language to ask " ten cents " for small measures of them. 



F. vesca L. Departure Bay, B. C. 



I believe I saw it in Alaska, but have no specimen. 



6eum macrophyllum Willd. Pyramid Harbor. Common in Alaska. 



Neillia opulifolia B. & H. Departure Bay, B. C. 



Nuttallia cerasiformia T. & U. Astoria, Or. 



Fyrus rivularis Doug. Astoria, Or. ; Victoria, B. C. ; Sitka, Alaska. 



P. sambucifolia Ch. & S. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



I saw but one plant, on an Indian trail so steep and slimj', it 

 was impossible to climb. It had no fruit ; but on the trail were 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



several red fruit, evidently of this species, but not one-fourth the 

 ordinary size, about the size of an elderberr3\ At Sitlia I saw 

 the plant with the full-sized fruit, half mature, that we see further 

 south. 



Fotentilla fragiformis Willd., var. villosa. Chilcac Inlet, Sitka, Alaska. 

 Varj'ing in habit. 



Prunus emarginata Walp., var. mollis. Astoria, Or. 

 Eosa gymnocarpa Nutt. Departure Bay, B. C. 



In open places a shrub two to three feet, but along the trail 

 through woods not too dense, it would rise six to eight feet 

 high ; and the red fruit, one to three on a common peduncle, 

 made a very ornamental shrub. 



E. Nutkana Presl. (E. cinnamomea Hook). Pyramid Harbor, Alaska; Victoria, 

 and some forms everywhere. 



Varies very mueli in size and form of fruit, sometimes having 

 them as large as Damson plums ; seems generally characterized 

 by very large stipules, especially on the upper part of the flower- 

 ing stem. 



Eubus leucodermis Dougl. Departure Bay, B. C. ; Astoria, Or. 



Leaves commonly pinnate, with fi\e leaflets. Fruit better than 

 the Eastern Black Cap, which it resembles. 



E. natkanus Mofino. Killisnow Island; but very common throughout the coast. 

 E. spectabilis Pursh. Killisnow Island; but everywhere throughout Alaska. 



The fruit is most prevalently of an amber-yellow, but often 

 scarlet or red. The flavor is wholly that of a blackberry, rather 

 than of a raspberry, and they vary very much in size. The 

 Indian women of Sitka have ver}- large ones, which they sell on 

 the road-side. At Killisnow Island I saw two Indian women, 

 whom I encountered in the woods, gathering the soft green tops 

 of the summer shoots in large bunches. They made signs to me 

 that they ate them ; I suppose cooked. 



E. stellatus Smith. Sitka. 



Though the plants seemed abundant, many flowers were 

 abortive, and a large number had but a single red carpel, or two 

 or three only. I had trouble to find a few with perfect berries. 



E. ursinus Ch. & S. Departure Bay, B. C. 



Spiraea Aruncus L. Harrisburg, Alaska; Departure Bay, B. C. 



8. discolor Pursh. Victoria, B. C; Harrisburg, and common along the Alaskan 

 coast. 



I am not able to decide to which of the varieties these northern 




84 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



forms should be referred, but they strike one differently from the 

 plant I have collected in the Rocky Mountains, S. dumosa. 

 Sanguisorba canadensis C. & S. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



SAXIFRAQACEJE. 



Heuchera glabra Willd. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



H. micrantha Dougl. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



Parnassia palustris L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Bibes bracteosam Dougl. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska, and common along the coast. 



Very striking by the stems as thick as one's finger, and very 

 stout annual shoots, enormous maple-like leaves, long leaf-stalks, 

 and racemes eight to ten inches long. The berries are called by 

 the Indians " Shaum," as I understood them. They are gathered 

 and preserved in fat for winter use. 



B. divaricatom Dougl. Port Townsend, W. T. 



B. lacustre Pois. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Harrisburg, Alaska. 



B. Hudsonianum Richard. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



This seems to grow onlj"^ about stumps or dead logs. I believe 

 the berries are used by Indians, as are those of B. b/'acteosum, 



B. sanguineum Pur. Departure Bay, B. C. 

 B. subvestita Hook.? 



Fruit very large — as large as the English gooseberry', which 

 even the foliage somewhat resembles. The berry is covered by 

 viscid hairs, by which even a large berry will adhere to the finger. 

 The color of the fruit is scarlet, but the flavor is insipid. The 

 shrub grows about four to five feet high. 



Saxifraga leucanthemifolia Mx. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



S. tricuspidata Retz. Chilcat Inlet, Alaska. 



Tellima grandiflora R. Br. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



Tiarella trifoliata L. Port Townsend, W. T., and northwards. 



CRASSULACEiE. 



Sednm spathnlsefoliam Hook. Victoria, B. C. 

 8. Bhodiola D. C. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



DROSERACEiE. 



Drosera rotundifolia L. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



ONAGRACE^. 



Circeea alpina L. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



Epilobium affine Bong. Fort Wrangel, Sitka, Alaska. 



E. alpiaum L. Pyramid Harbor, Killisnow Island, Alaska. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



E. latifolium L. Pyramid Harbor, Muir Glacier, Alaska. * 



E. minutum Lindl. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 E. panicnlatam Nutt. Departure Bay, B. C. 

 £. spicatum, Lam. Port Townsend, W. T. 



About eighteen inches or two feet, with narrow leaves Q inch), 

 tapering gradually at both ends. Yictoria, B. C, two to three 

 feet, leaves broader ; Killisnow Island, Alaska, four to five feet 

 high, leaves one to one and one-half inches broad, spike leafy, 

 and inclined to be paniculate. 



CUCURBITACEiE. 



Echinocysiis lobata T. & G. Columbia River, above Astoria, Or. 



UMBELLIPER-53 



Arohangelioa Gmeleni D. C. Harrisburg, Kaigan, and other places in Alaska. 



The few whites we met called it "celery." In many Indian 

 lodges I saw bundles of fresh flower stems, and in some cases 

 Indians peeling or stringing them as we do rhubarb stalks, and 

 eating them raw with apparent relish. 



It is interesting to note that Linnaeus, in his tour in Lapland, 

 notes that the Laplanders use this plant in the same way. 



Crantzia lineata Nutt. Columbia River, above Astoria, Or. 

 Heracleum lanatum Mx. Harrisburg and many other places in Alaska. 



Geological survey of Canada says Indians eat the leaf-stalks ; 

 but I saw no evidence of this in Alaska. 



Ligasticum sooticum L. Idaho Inlet, Killisnow, Harrisburg, Alaska. 



Common along the Alaskan coast. 

 (Enanthe sarmentosa Presl. Departure Bay, B. C. 

 Sanicala Menziesii Hook & Am. Port Townsend, W. T., Victoria, B. C. 

 Slum cicatsefolium Gmel. Astoria, Or. 



ARALIACE^. 



Fatzia horrida B. & H. Pyramid Harbor, Harrisburg, and other places in Alaska. 



Often forming dense underbrush in forests, growing four to 

 eight feet high, and making traveling impossible unless with 

 great labor. An Indian explained to me that it was in common 

 use with them as a medicine. 



COHNACE-S3. 



Cornus stolonifera Mx. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 

 C. canadensis L. Sitka, Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



CAPRIFOLIACEJE. 



Lonicera hispidula Dougl. 



I see no difference between the yellow and red forms, though 

 they strike one as distinct when growing. The red form, Port 

 Townsend, W. T. 



L. involucrata Banks. Kaigan, Alaska. 



Seemingly different from the Colorado plant, but chiefly in 

 size and habit. The plant has a sarmentose or half-climbing char- 

 acter. It grows up the hemlock trees as they grow ; and, when 

 the lower branches of the hemlock die, the stems of the Lonicera 

 remind one of grap6vines. But the plant travels along the 

 lower living or dead branches of the hemlock, outwards to the 

 light. Away from trees they are self-supporting, but yet the 

 branches are somewhat pendulous. In such cases eight to ten 

 feet high. 



Linnsea borealis Gion. Port Townsend, W. T. 

 Sambucus racemosa Mx. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



Familiar as I am with the var. piihens of the Allegheny and 

 Rocky Mountains, I could hardly believe the forms deserved to 

 be regarded as identical after seeing the Alaska plants, especially 

 those about Fort Wrangel. The inflorescence was strictl}^ race- 

 mose, which the more eastern form is not. Shrubs six to ten 

 feet, and as wide, covered with brilliant scarlet berries, were 

 extremely attractive. 



Symphoricarpus racemosuB Ms. Victoria, B. C. 

 Vibamam ellipticum Hook. Pj'ramid Harbor, Alaska. 



RUBIACEJE. 



Galium asprellum Mx. Victoria, B. C. 



Slender habit. ' Harrisburg and Sitka, coarse and straggling. 



G. triflorum Mx. Port Townsend, W. T.; Victoria, B. C; Harrisburg, Sitka, Alaska. 



Leaves getting broader from each location northwards. 

 COMPOSITJE. 



Adenocaulon bioolor Hook. Port Townsend, W. T. 



Acbillea miUefolium L. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C; Harrisburg, 

 Alaska. 



Much more vigorous and hairy than the eastern plant, and 

 generally with deep rosy, occasionally with pinky white, but 

 rarely, if ever, with pure white flowers. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 8T 



Anaphalis margaritacea Benth. Bartlett Bay, Chilcat Inlet, Alaska.. 



Antennaria alpina Gaert. Chilcat Inlet, Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Arnica Chamissonis Less. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Aster Souglasii Hook. Columbia River, Astoria, Or. 



Bahia lanata Nutt. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. 



Cnicus ednlis Gray. Columbia River, above Astoria, Or. ; Departure Bay, B, C. 



Erigeron acre L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



E. alpinum L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska, 



E. FMladelphicum. Victoria, B. C. 



E. speciosam D. C. Port Townsend, W. T. 



Gnaphalium purpuremn Lin. Port Townsend, W. T, 



Hieracium albiflorum Hook. Port Townsend, W. T. 



H. cynoglossoides Amt. Touv. Port Townsend, W. T. 



H. Scouleri Hook. Departure Bay, B. C. 



Leontodon hirstltum Hook. Port Townsend, W. T. 



Densely hairy ; Victoria, B. C, slightly hairy and more slen- 

 der than the Port Townsend plant. 



Madia filipes Gray. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. 

 M. Nuttalliana Gray. Port Townsend, W. T.; Victoria, B. C. 

 Mioromeris Bigelowii Gray. Victoria, B, C. 

 Nabalus alatns Hook. Harrisburg, Fort Wrangel, Sitka, Alaska. 

 Pyrethrum Parthenium L. 



A single plant on the Columbia River, four miles above Astoria, 

 most likely introduced, but worth recording as noting the com- 

 mencement of naturalization. 



Senecio pseud-arnica Hook. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 



Solidago elongata Nutt. Victoria, B. C, 



S. multiradiata Ait. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Sonchus oleraceus L. Astoria, Or. ; Departure Bay, B. C. 



Quite common, but I suppose introduced in some way. 



Taraxacum palustre Lin. Departure Bay, B. C. ; Port Townsend, W. T. 

 Campanula rotundifolia L. Chilcat Inlet,' Alaska. 



In the crevices of rocks ; the flowers very large, and the stems 

 very stout. Indian name " narl," and represented as " good for 

 medicine. " 



C. Scouleri Hook. Departure Bay, B. C. 



About four inches high, densely leafy, and leaves narrow in 

 open rocky places ; a foot high, slender, leaves broad and scat- 

 tered in somewhat shady places. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ERICACE^. 



Arbutus Meaziesii Pursh. Departure Bay, B. C. 

 Bryanthus glanduliferus Gray. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Cassiope Mertensiana Don. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 C. tetragona Don. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Gaultheria Shallon Pursh. Port Townsend, W. T. 



One to two feet high ; Kaigan and other places in Alaska, two 

 to four feet or more, and forming a dense undergrowth rendering 

 the forest almost impassable. 



Kalmia glauca L. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 Ledum palustre L. Fort Wrangel, Sitka, Alaska. 



Leaves broader as the plant extends northwards. 



Uenziesia ferruginia Smith. Fort Wrangel, Sitka, and Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



Moneses unifiora Gray. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Pyrola ohlorantha Swartz. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



P. rotundifolia Lin. Port Townsend, W. T. 



P. seounda Lin. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



Vacoinium ovalifolium Sm. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



V. ovatum Pursh. Columbia River, above Astoria, Or. *" 



v. parvifolium Sm. Columbia River, above Astoria, Or. 



V. uliginosum L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



V. Vitis-Idsea L. Sitka, Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



PLUMBAGINACEJE. 



Armeria vulgaris Willd. Victoria, B. C. 



PRIMULACEiE. 



Dodeoatheon Ueadia L. Killisnow Tsland, Alaska. 



Var. macrocarpum probably. Clefts of rocks along the shore. 



Glaux maritima L. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 Primula borealis Duby. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Trientalis Europsea Linn. Sitka, Alaska. 

 T. Europaea, var, arctica Fisch. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



OLEACE^. 



Frazinas Oregana Nutt. Victoria, B. C. 

 But perhaps introduced. 



GENTIANACEiE. 

 Oentiana amarella L., var. acuta Engel. Departure Bay. 




1884.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



POLEMONIACEiE. 



CoUomia heterophylla Hook. Columbia River, above Astoria. 



There is in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, a specimen of this, and perhaps from the same 

 locality, simply marked " Gilia, Columbia River." In the same 

 paper is a specimen marked Navarretia heterophylla Benth., 

 " from Durand's Herbarium," which is almost smooth, not viscous 

 as this is, and accords with the figure in Hook. Bot. Mag.,t. 2895, 

 which this and Nuttall's specimen scarcely do. 



BORRAGINACE^. 



Mertensia maritima Dun. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 



SCROPHULARIACEJE. 



Boscbniakia glabra C. H. Meyer. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



Among alders, apparently in the track of a receding glacier. 

 A long woody thread descends from the base of the scaly flower 

 stem, but in the haste of collecting I did not find to what 

 the thread was attached, if it were attached at all. The Indians 

 make no use of the plant, but class it with plants which are 

 " cultash " (no good). Their name for this is " Asquakali." 



Castillija hispida Bentb. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



C. miniata Dougl. Victoria, B. C. 



C pallida Kunth. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



Common through Alaska, and varying very much, especially 

 in the colors of the bracts and flowers. 



Euphrasia officinalis L. Bartlett Bay, A'aska. 

 Mimulus dentatus Nutt. Astoria, Or. 



Though from the numerous variations oi M. luteus L. this might 

 be regarded as but a variety of that species, it has a ver}' distinct 

 appearance when seen growing. The dark, blue-green, thick 

 leaves are particularl}^ striking. This might be owing to the 

 sub-saline locality — so many maritime plants having foliage of 

 this character ; but the normal M. luteus may be often seen i^ 

 similar situations, and without these characters. Dr. Gray, in 

 Botanical Gazette^ now regards it as a good species. 



Mimulus luteus L. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



Common along the coast. 



Fedicalaris palustris, var. Wlaxsovinna Bunge. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Scrophularia Californica Cham. Astoria, Or. 

 Veronica scutellata L. Departure Bay, B. C. 

 V. alpina L. ? Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



LENTIBULARIACE^. 

 Finguicnla vulgaris L. Bartlett Baj-, Alaska. 



LABIATJE. 



Brunella vulgaris L. Victoria, B. C. 



This does not strike me quite like the introduced form of the 

 Eastern States, and is most likely indigenous. 



Galeopsis Tetrahit L. Sitka, Alaska. 



A patch of a few yards in extent, but seemingly many years 

 established, on the shore, near the old city, was the only 

 locality noted on the journey, and suggests that the plant may 

 have been a Russian introduction. 



Mentha canadensis L. Departure Bay, B. C. 

 Micromeria Douglasii Benth. Port Town send, W. T. 

 Stachys ciliata Doug. Victoria, B. C. 



Damp, grassy places. A very ornamental plant. 



PLANTAGINACE^. 



Flantago major, var. Asiatica D. C. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 P. major, var. minima Dee. Departure Bay, B. fJ. 



Both these forms grow in saline soil, and the location can have 

 no influence on their very distinct appearances. 



POLYGONACEiE. 

 Polygonum viviparum L. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 

 Rumez domesticus Hart. Hoona (Bartlett Bay). 



Petioles a foot long, and half an inch wide. Leaf-blade about 

 a foot long and nine inches wide at the base, tapering towards 

 the obtuse apex. My specimens moulded in drying too badly to 

 determine properly. I have followed other collectors in naming 

 the plant, though I am inclined to regard it rather as B. Patienta 

 L. The petioles are eaten by the Indians as we use the garden 

 rhubarb. 



B. salicifolias Wienm. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



CHENOPODIACE^. 



Atripex patula, var. Uttoralis Gray. Harrisburg, Sitka, Fort Wrangel, and other 

 places along the coast. 



EMPETRACEiE. 

 Empetrnm nigrum L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



BETULACE^. 



Alnus rubra Bong. Pyramid Harbor, Kaigan, Alaska. 

 A. viridis D. C. Harrisburg, Alaska. 



I have identified these with much hesitation, regretting on my 

 return home to find my material confined to a single branch of 

 each — the alders of Alaska being worthy, as I now believe, of 

 closer investigation. My botanizing at Harrisburg, and at Kai- 

 gan, had to be done beneath an umbrella and in pouring rain — 

 unfavorable for the close study of arborescent growth. If the 

 identifications are correct, the names would deserve to be trans- 

 posed. The " Harrisburg " species is the one prevalent from 

 there south through British Columbia to the Columbia River, 

 often making a tree I should judge from thirty to forty feet 

 high, and with a trunk occasionally say five to six feet in 

 circumference. The bark of the trunk is a dark reddish brown. 

 The finely serrulate leaves, however, seem precisely like the 

 leaves of A. viridis, as I have collected it on the mountains of 

 New Hampshire, and North Carolina, though it is difficult to 

 believe so small a shrub there, should be so fine a tree here. 



The alder of Kaigan and Pyramid Harbor is a much larger 

 tree, with a gray and rather smooth bark, even when quite aged. 

 At Pyramid Harbor, a summer settlement for salmon-fishing, 

 Indians had cut some down, and were making canoes — dug-outs— 

 of them. From memory I am sure some of these logs must have 

 been near three feet thick, and thirty feet long — the original 

 height of the tree being probably more than double this. These 

 were on rich bottom lands, near but not on the retreating 

 glacier's track. On the track the same plant apparently made a 

 dense shrubby growth, not taking on at all a tree-like character. 



Betula papyracea Ait. Chilcat Inlet, Alaska. 



Probably this species ; but the leaves seem all cordate and 

 densely woolly. Only a single tree was seen, not mature appar- 

 ently ; but there might have been more, for when found it was 

 approaching midnight and getting almost too dark for further 



explorations, 



SALICACEJE. 



Saliz Pallasii And. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



S. reticulata L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



S. Sitchensis Sanson, var. denudata And. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



S. Barclay! And. Bartlett Bay, Alaska, 




92 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



CUPULIPERJE. 



Quercus Kellogii Newb. Victoria, B. C. 



Where exposed to the sea-breezes this seemed but a small 

 " chinquapin "-like bush two or three feet ; but only a short 

 distance in the island it becomes a fine timber tree. I believe 

 this is as far north as I saw any species of oak growing. 



TAXACE^. 

 Taxus brevifolia Nutt. Victoria, B. C, and Port Townsend, W. T. 



A few trees in the vicinity of Victoria, quite as large as some 

 seen in the Calaveras grove of Sequoias, and probabl}?^ growing 

 further north, though not seen. 



CONIFERJE. 



Abies grandis Lindl. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. 

 Chamaecyparis Nutkaensis Spach. 



Is said by authors to be very abundant from the Columbia 

 River northward through British Columbia and southeastern 

 Alaska. I could not find a single specimen, though continually 

 on the lookout for it, and the owner of a saw-mill at Killisnow 

 Island informed us that the " yellow cedar " Was an extremely 

 rare tree in that region. 



Ficea Sitcfaensis Carriere (Aliea Menziesii, of sf'me modern authors). 



Common everj^where through British Columbia to the head of 

 Glacier Bay, Alaska, at the latter place forming buried forests 

 near the Muir Glacier and Bartlett Bay. At Kaigan some trees 

 measured twenty-one feet round. It evidently loves atmospheric 

 moisture, and grows on barren rocks, when it is under these 

 atmospheric conditions, quite vigorously; and in this way assists 

 in forming a covering of earth over the rocks. At Kaigan there 

 were trees of many years old, growing from the top of the Indian 

 "totem poles," half as tall as the poles' at times. 



Finns contorta Dougl. Chilcat Inlet. 



A tree about twenty or thirty feet high, with a rather flattish, 

 spreading head ; short ovoid cones, and which are not at all 

 oblique, growing among rocks along the coast. 



Also at Bartlett Bay, where it is a stout, very vigorous shrub, 

 branching from the base, without any attempt to make a leader, 

 and much resembling the habit of Pinus montana of Europe. The 

 plants were very fertile, the cones being freely scattered among 

 the branches, and cylindrical, without any tendency to obliquity. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Following the Botany of California this would probably be referred 

 to the true P. contorta, of Douglas, and the first named to P. 

 contorta, var. Murray ana ^ though the characters, as I find them, 

 do not quite agree. I have thought best to leave the determina- 

 tion indefinite. 



Tsuga Mertensiana Carriere. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C, and common 

 along the coast. Specimens from Fort Wrangel. 



This is the "hemlock" of these parts, and some of the trees at 

 Sitka and Fort Wrangel were as large, at least, as the best spec- 

 imens of the hemlock found at the East. 



Tseudtsuga Douglasii Carriere. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. ; Sitka, 



Alaska. 

 Thuja gigantea Nutt. Port Townsend, W. T.; Victoria, B. C. ; Kaigan, Alaska. 



Common along the coast. • 



This, Tsuga Mertensiana, and alders, form most of the arbor- 

 escent vegetation of the southeastern Alaskan coast. 



OBCHIDACEJE. 



Habenaria dilitata Gray. Port Townsend, W. T. 



As it seems to me, though it may be a form Qf .S. leucostachys, 

 Wat. 



H. hyperborea Bartlett Bay, in glacial drift. 

 Spiranthes Bomanzoffiana Cham. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



IRIDACE^. 



Sisyrincbium anceps L. Sitka 



Not abundant, but probably indigenous. 



LILIACE^, 



Allium acuminatum Hook. Victoria, B. C. 



Brodiaea lactea Watson. Port Townsend, W. T. ; Victoria, B. C. 



B, grandiflora Watson. Victoria, B. C. 



An imperfect specimen ; probably belongs here. 



Frosartes Oregana Watson. Victoria, B. C. 



Smilacina bifolia, var. dilitata Wood. Sitka, Fort Wrangel, and many places along 

 the coast, but seldom found in fruit. 



The fruiting specimens here from Sitka, have also three, and 

 sometimes four, leaves on the scape. 



Streptopus amplexifolius D. C. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 Tofieldia glutinosa Willd. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ARACE^, 



Lysichiton Camtschatcense Schott. Fort "Wrangel, and throughout the coast. 



Leaves larger, narrower and much more glaucous than its ana- 

 logue, the skunk cabbage of the Eastern States. 



Two 3'ouug deer, about a j^ear old, were captured while 

 attempting to swim across a four-mile stretch of an arm of the 

 sea, and brought on board the steamer, the captain intending to 

 take them to San Francisco. They took well to their imprison- 

 ment ; but after some time, the ship's boat brought back a lot of 

 these leaves. I remarked to the captain that the acrid leaves 

 would probably be fatal to the animals, but he remarked that 

 they would not eat them so freely if injurious, and they were fed 

 continuously for several days on them, when one died. The cap- 

 tain's idea was that il^ died of sea-sickness. It had been very 

 rough the night it died. The other one finally recovered, 



NAIDACE^. 



Triglochin maritimum L. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 T. palustre L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



JUNCACE^. 



Juncus arcticus Willd. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 J. Balticus Dethard. Fort Wrangel. 



Varies in size in different localities. 



J. bufonius L. Sitka, Alaska. 



J. filiformis I.. Astoria, Or. 



J. xiphioides Meyer. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



Luzula campestris D. C. Sitka, Alaska. 



L. spadicea, var pnrvijiora Meyer. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



CYPERACEJE. 



Carex cryptocarpa. Alaska. 



C. muricata Linn. Alaska. 



C. undetermined. Alaska. 



C. undetermined. Alaska. 



Eriophorum gracile Koch. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



Scirpus puflgens Vahl. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



GRAMINEiE. 



(Identified by F. Lamson Scribner.) 

 Agrostis alba var. scaherrima. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 A. canina, var, Sitka, Alaska. 

 A. exarata Trin. Sitka, Alaska. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



A vulgaris Nutt. Sitka, Alaska. 



Aira caryopliyllea L. Victoria, B. C. 



Alopecurus aristulatus Mx. Departure Bay, B. C. 



Atropus angustata Ledeb. Sitka, Alaska. 



Deschampsia elongata. Departure Bay, B. C. 



Deyeuxia Langsdorffii Kunth. Fort Wrangel, Ala&ka. 



Elymus Sibiricus L. Departure Bay, B. C. 



This seemed so great a favorite with the birds that it was with 

 difficulty I got a few complete spikes for herbarium. 



Elymas mollis Trin. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 



This is a broad-leaved, strong-growing kind, growing along 

 sandy shores as E. arenarius does in other places ; and not 

 uncommon along the coast. 



Festaoa ovina, var. duriuseula. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Festnca ovina, var. duriuseula. Sitka, Alaska. 

 The last spike much more decompound. 



Glyceria angnstata Griesb. Idaho Inlet, Cross Sound, Alaska. 



Mr. Scribner refers it to Griesbach's species without deciding 

 whether or not it should be united with G. distans G. The 

 plant was growing in mud overflowed at high-tide, and formed a 

 dense carpet of green grass on the mud. The growth is about 

 lour to six inches. 



G. distans Gr. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 6. pauciflora Presl. Sitka, Alaska. 

 Hierochlce borealis L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Holcus lanatus L. Astoria, Or. 



Only one plant noted, on the hills along the river, about four 

 miles above Astoria. Pyrethrum Parthenium was also collected 

 within a few feet of it. 



Hordeum nodosum L. Bartlett Bay, Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 Phleum alpinum L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 F. pratense L Sitka, Alaska. 



Common in grassy places ; but possibly introduced. 



Poa pratensis L. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



Both the green and the bronzy forms. 



Trisetum spicatum, var. moUe, Gray. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 



EQUISETACE^. 

 Eqnisetum variegatum Scb. Bartlett Bay, Alaska, 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



FILICES. 



Adiantum pedatum L. Ilarrisburg, Killisnow Island, Alaska. 



Pinnules more deeply lobed, and the divisions of the stipe more 

 elongated and slender than the Eastern form. 



Aspidium munitum Kaul. Departure Bay, B. C. 



Very variable in size ; but always seeming very fertile. 



A. aculeatum Swartz. Harrisburg, Alaska. 

 Cryptogramme acrostichoides R. Br. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Yery vigorous, fronds 9 to 10 inches. 



Cystopteris bulbifera. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 

 Cystopteris fragilis. Pyramid Harbor, Alaska. 

 Lomaria Spicant Desveaux. Sitka, Alaska. 

 Phegopteris Dryopteris, Fee. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 

 Phegopteris polypoides Fee. Bartlett Bay, Alaska. 

 Polypodium falcatum Kellogg. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 

 Polypodium vulgare L. Killisnow Island. 

 Pteris aquilina L. Victoria, B. C. Fort Wrangel, Alaska. 



LYCOPODIACEJE. 



Lycopodium aunotinnm L. Killisnow Island, Alaska. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 91 



NOTES ON SPECIES OF FISHES IMPROPERLY ASCRIBED TO THE FAUNA 

 OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BY DAVID S. JORDAN. 



The study of the geographical description of species is impos- 

 sible without a correct knowledge of the species themselves and 

 of the localities whence specimens have been obtained. Every 

 attempt at generalization in this field has been more or less 

 vitiated by errors of identification or errors as to locality. No 

 accident, unfortunately, is more common in museums, or in private 

 collections,' than the mixing of specimens from difierent localities, 

 and the false records arising from such confusion have a wonder- 

 ful vitality. The early writers in S3'stematic zoology had no con- 

 ception of the problems of geographical distribution, and many 

 modern writers have a very low estimate of the importance of 

 accuracy in that regard. 



It is certain that numerous species of fishes have been ascribed 

 on erroneous information to the waters of the United States, by 

 writers of authority. Such species should of course be dropped 

 from the lists. Nor should any species be retained in regard to 

 which any serious doubt exists. It is manifestly better that a 

 chance visitor to our shores should be erroneously omitted, than 

 that a species which has never been taken should be improperly 

 inserted. 



I give here the names of 35 species which should, in my opinion, 

 be dropped from our lists of species inhabiting the waters of 

 North America, north of the Tropic of Cancer. Most of these 

 are admitted in Jordan and Gilbert's Sjmopsis of the Fishes of 

 North America, but many of them are repudiated in the addenda 

 to this work. I omit sevei'al species already expunged by earlier 

 writei'S, and include only those which have lately had some degree 

 6f currency. I divide these into two series, as to whether the 

 error is one as to locality or as to identification. 



a. Species erroneously recorded as to locality. 



1. Carcliaiias isodon Mtiller and Henle. 



Originally described from a specimen from unknown localitj' 

 collected by Milbert. As Milbertmade some collections in New 

 York, it has been assumed that this specimen came from New 

 York, and that Mitchill's Squalus punctatus is the same species. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



But Mitchill's shark was probably the Garcharias terrse-ncvse of 

 Richardson, and no recent collector has found C. isodon on our 

 coasts. 



2 Carcharias punctatus (Mitch. )• 



Described by Richardson as C. terrse-novae, from a specimen 

 brought by Audubon from Newfoundland. Scor]Dsena bufo C. and 

 V. (=; S. plumieri Bloch) and Maltlie cubifrons Rich. (= M. 

 vespertilio, var. radiata Mitch.) were in the same collection. 

 Audubon collected in Southern Florida also : his accuracy in 

 regard to localities is not above suspicion, and the three species 

 in question belong to the fauna of the Florida Coast. There is 

 not the slightest probability that ^ny of the three came from the 

 northern coast. 



S. Dules auTiga Cuv. and Val. 



A South American fish, introduced in our lists by De Ka5^,from 

 a specimen seen " several years ago in the collection of Mr. 

 Hamilton, who informed me that it had been taken in the harbor 

 of New Yoik." This is not probable. 



4. Paranthias furcifer (Cu^. and Val.). 



iBrachyrhinus creolus [C. and V.] Gill.) 

 Described by De Kay under the name of Corvina oxyptera, 

 from an old specimen in the cabinet of the New York Lyceum, 

 " obtained from the adjacent coast." The specimen was probably 

 from the West Indies, where the species is not uncommon. 



5. Epiaephelus niveatus Cu". and Val. 



A young specimen belonging (according to Goode and Bean) 

 to this species, was described by Professor Gill (Proc. Ac. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1861, 98) under the name of Hyporthodus fiavicauda. 

 This specimen belonged to a collection sent to the Academy at 

 Philadelphia by Mr. Samuel Powell, of Newport, Rhode Island. 

 A list of this collection is given by Professor Cope (Proc. Ac. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, 118). Eleven species are included in it. 

 All are represented by young specimens, which had probably 

 not strayed far from the place where they were hatched. All of 

 them are of tropical types ; six of them have not since been found 

 in the United States, and onl}^ two {Garanx setipinnis Mitch. = 

 Vomer curtus Cope, and Pseudojjriacanthus altus Gill) have since 

 been seen on the New England Coast ; while three others (Eemi- 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



rhamphus unifasciatus Ranz., Glyphidodon saxatilis L., and 

 Tetrodon testudineus L.) are found on our Florida Coast. 



Certainly it is very improbable that this collection was made 

 at Newport, and I think that until good evidence appears that 

 such was the case, the entire list should be erased. 



6. Polyprion americanus (Blnch and Schneider). 



(Polyprion cernium Val. ) 

 Dr. Day says (Fish. Gt. Britain, etc., p. 11) of this species: 

 " Forster recorded it from Queen Charlotte's Island on the 

 Western shore of North America." The " Queen Charlotte's 

 Island " referred to by Forster, lies, if I am not mistaken, in the 

 neighborhood of New Zealand, and his Perca pr'ognatha or 

 Epinephelus oxygenios Bloch and Schneider is probably a species 

 of Stereohpis ; at any rate, not a Polyprion ; P. americanus^\ioY[- 

 ever, has been taken in deep water off our Atlantic Coast. 



7. Ehypticus nigripinnis (5ill. 



{ Promicropterus decorattis Gill.) 

 A species belonging to the Pacific Coast of Tropical America. 

 A specimen in the Powell collection above noticed, was identified 

 with it ]ry Professor Cope. 



P. Apcgon americanus (Cnstelnau). 



A specimen in the Powell collection was identified with this 

 species by Pi'ofessor Cope. Castelnau's type came from South 

 America. It was very imperfectly described and is in bad con- 

 dition. Yaillant and Bocourt have identified the specimen some- 

 what doubtfully with A])ogon dovii, a Panama species ; what 

 Professor Cope had is therefore veiy doubtful. 



9. Chsetodon maoulocinctus (Gill). 



Described from a very young fish in the Powell collection, and 

 not since recognized. 



10. Scorpaena porcus L. 



A specimen in the Museum at Paris, said to have been brought 

 by Milbert from New York, which is verj- improbable. 



11. Trigla cuculus L. 



A specimen in Paris, collected b}'^ Milbert with the preceding 

 species. Both belong to the fauna of Southern Europe. 



12. BalistPS powelli Cope. 



Described from the Powell collection ; perhaps a young specimen 

 of Balistes oarolinensis Gmelin (= B. capriscus Gmelin). 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



13. Tetrodon trichocephalus Cope. 



Described from the Powell collection ; not since recognized. 



14. Sanzania truncata (Retz). 



Given in Jordan and Gilbert's Synopsis Fish. N. A. as " occa- 

 sional off our Atlantic Coast." The specimen in question came 

 from the Bermudas. 



b. Species admitted through erroneous identifications. 



1. Galeus galeus (L.). 



Recorded from California by Dr. Giinther and later by Jordan 

 and Gilbert. Our specimens are since recognized as belonging to 

 a distinct species, G. zyopterus J. and G. 



2. Carcharias plumbeus Nard >. 



( Carcharias milberti Val. ) 

 One of the types of Carcharias milherti Yal. came from 

 Milbert's collection, " New York." The others were from the 

 Mediterranean and belongs to the previously described G. plum- 

 beus. Milbert's specimen was probably either C. coerideus.i or 

 else from some other locality. In any event, G. milberti Yal. 

 should not have a place in our lists. 



3. Carcharias lam'a Ri.=so. 



First ascribed to our fauna by Putnam, from a tooth found on 

 St. George's Banks ; afterwards by Jordan and Gilbert from 

 specimens taken at San Diego, California. The latter belong to 

 distinct species (G. lamiella J. and G.). The species, however, 

 occurs in abundance about the Florida Keys, and it should be 

 retained in our lists. 



4. Isurus glaucus Mttller and Henle. 



Our fish does not agree well with Miiller and Henle's account 

 of the East Indian glaucus. It is probably distinct and should 

 stand as I. dekayi Gill. 



5. Isarus spollanzani Raf. 



Certainly not yet positively known from our coast. De Kay's 

 Lamna punctata is Isurus dekayi. Storer's Lamna punctata is 

 Lamna cornubica. 



6. Heptranchias indicus (Cuvicr). 



The Californian species, H. maculatus Ayres, has been erro- 

 neously confounded with this East Indian shark. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



7. Pristis pristis (L.). 



There is no evideuce of the occurrence of this species (P. anti- 

 quorum Latham) in American waters. All Atlantic specimens 

 studied belong to P. 2?ec^wa^ws Latham ; those from Panama to 

 P. perroteti Val. 



8. Lepidosteus tristoechus (Bloch). 



Our Alligator Gar appears to be somewhat different from this 

 Cuban species. Its oldest name is Lepidosteus spatula Lac. 



9. Mursena afra Blocfa. 



The American species thus called by Giinther and by Jordan 

 and Gilbert does not appear to be identical with the African 

 species called Gymnothorax o,fer by Bloch, which is described as 

 " brnnneo alboque marmorato." Our species should apparently 

 stand as 3Iurse7ia funehris (Ranzani). Ilureena infernalis Poey 

 is the same species. 



10. Ophichthys punctifer Kaup. 



The specimens from Pensacola recorded as 0. punctifer or 

 mordax Poey, belong to the species called Ophichthys schneideri 

 by Steindachner. Possibl}^ all three are identical. 



11. Sphyraena sphyrena (L.). 



Our small Northern Barracuda has been identified with this 

 European species (Sphyraena spet Lac.) by Giinther and later b}^ 

 Jordan and Gilbert. It is, however, I think, specifically distinct 

 and should stand as Sphyrsena borealis De Kay, as has been 

 already indicated by Goode and Bean, and by Meek and New- 

 land. 



12. Trachynotus goreensis Cuv. and Val. 



The large pompano or " permit " of the Florida Keys and West 

 Indies has been identified by Goode and Bean, following Pr. 

 Giinther, with the African fish indicated as Trachynotus gorehisis^ 

 by Cuvier and Valenciennes. Thei-e is, however, little reason for 

 thinking this identification correct. On the other hand the young 

 of the American " Permit " have been described by Professor 

 Gill under the names Trachynotus rhodopus and Trachynotus 

 nasutus. It should therefore stand as Trachynotus rhodopus, 

 as lately noted by Meek and Goss. Trachynotus carolinus of 

 Poey's memoirs is T. rhodopus. T. kennedyi Steindachner is a 

 different species. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



13. Coryphsena equisetis L. 



All the dolphins thus far definitely known from our coast, 

 under whatever names described, belong to Goryphsena hippurus 

 L. The occurrence of C. equisetis is j'et to be proven, although 

 not improbable. 



14. Epinephelus acutirostris (Cuv. and Val.). 



It is probable that the specimen of this species, mentioned 

 by Cuvier and Valenciennes as having been sent to Paris from 

 Charleston by Holbrook, belongs to Epinephelus microlepis 

 (Goode and Bean). This species differs from E. acutirostris in 

 the much smaller scales, as well as in other respects. The speci- 

 mens in the National Museum called Trisotropis brunneiis Poey, 

 by Goode and Bean, and afterwards made the types of Trisotropis 

 stomias Goode and Bean, belong also to E. microlepis. The real 

 Trisotropis brunneus Poey abounds, however, about the Florida 

 reefs. 



15. Sciaena stellifera (Bloch). 



Scisena lanceolata (Holbrook), the species found on our Cai-olina 

 coast, is not identical with either the Sc. stellifera (or trispinosa) 

 of Gunther or of Steindachner. What species is the original of 

 Bloch is certainly doubtful, as at least nine species of this type 

 (" Stelliferus ") occur in the waters of Tropical America, and 

 Bloch's specimen was said to have come from Africa. 



16. Holacanthus tricolor Bloch. 



Inserted by Jordan and Gilbert (Synopsis, p. 941) as from the 



Florida Keys, on the statement of a collector. The specimens in 



question belong to Pomacanthus aureus. 



» 



17. Pomacanthus arcuatus L. 



The specimen in the National Museum from Garden Key 

 Florida, referred to this species, belong to Pomacanthus aureus 

 (Bloch). The latter species is abundant about the Florida Keys, 

 but P. arcuatus is yet to be taken in our waters. 



18. Acanthurus'phlebotomus Cuv. and Val. 



This is another species sent from New York to Paris, by that 

 remarkable collector, Milbert. It is a West Indian species, not 

 yet known from our coasts, unless it be identical with A. chirur- 

 gus, which is probable. The original Chsetodon nigricans of 

 L. was based on an old world specimen, and neither this nor any 

 other American species should be called Acanthurus nigricans. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 108 



The only species of Acanthu7'us yet definitely known from the 

 American coasts are A. chirurgus^ A. tractus and A. cceruleus. 



19. Cottus bubalis L. 



This species has been ascribed to the fauna of Greenland, but, 

 according to Liitken, it has not yet been found in that region. 



20. Agonus cataphractus L. 



Erroneously ascribed to Greenland,^, decagonus Bloch having 

 been mistaken for it. 



21. Prionotus punctatus (Bloch). 



A common West Indian species, appearing in nearly all of our 

 catalogues as a fish of our South Atlantic Coast. But I have 

 seen no specimens from any point north of Cuba. It is probable 

 that the very different species, Prionotus scitulus Jor. and Gilb., 

 has been repeatedly recorded as P. punctatus. 



22. Anoplarchus alectrolophus (Pallas). 



Described from the Gulf of Penshin, and therefore not yet 

 definitely known from Alaska. 



2.3. Blennius fucorum Cuv. and Val. 



Specimens of a Blenny found in the fucus in the open sea, out- 

 side of NewYork harbor, were referred bj'^ De Kay to this species. 

 De Kay's description is taken from Cuvier and Valenciennes, and 

 no evidence of the correctness of this identification appears In 

 local lists, Isesthes punctatus Wood has appeared occasionally as 

 Blennius fucorum. 



24. Hippocampus hippocampus L. 



(H. Jieptagonus Raf . ; II. antiquorum Leach. ) 

 A sea- horse from St. George's Bank has been identified with 

 this European species by Mr. Goode. His description does not 

 agree well with my European specimens, and I think that his fish 

 must belong either to H. hudsonius or to some species as yet 

 undescribed. 




104 , PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



NOTES ON TERTIARY SHELLS. 

 BY OTTO MEYER. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila., 

 1879, pp. 217-225, A. Heilprin gave in an essay, well worthy of 

 perusal, a review of those species of the American Tertiary which 

 had been hitherto compared and identified with European ones, 

 and then identifies the following : ^ — 



Cardita imbricata Lam, = Cardita rotunda Lea. 



Gardita planicosta Lam. = Cardita planicosta Lam. (Conr.). 



Gorbis lamellosa Lam. = Gorbis lirata Conr, 



Trochita trochiformis Lam, = Trochita trochiformis Lea. 



Gyprsea elegans Defr. = Gyprsedia fenestralis Conr. 



Actseon simulatus Sow. = Tornatella bella Conr. 



Niso terebellatus Lam. = Pasithea umbilicata Lea. 



I have seen and examined man^^ American species in the 

 museums of New York and New Haven, but my observations are 

 chiefly derived from material of my own collection, consisting of 

 several hundred German Oligocene species in addition to numerous 



^ Here are omitted all identifications, where Heilpriu has any doubt, or 

 which are not obtained by a direct comparison of specimens ; of such are 

 the following: — 



Ostrea divaricata Lea, compared with Ostrea flabellula Lam. 

 Pecten JDeshayesi Lea,, " " Pecten opercularis Jjam. 



Gar dium Nicolleti Conr., " *' Cardium semigranulatum Sow. 



Corbula oniscus Conr., " " Corhula rugosa Lam. 



Cylichna galba Conr., " " Bulla BroccM Bronn. 



Tornatella pomilia Conv., " " Tornatella inflaia Feruss. 



Pyrula penita Conr., " " Pyrula nexilis Lam. 



Cancellaria tortipUca Conr., compared with Gancellaria evulsa Brand. 

 Sigaretus decUvus Conr., ) ( Sigaretus canaliculatus 



Sigaretus bilix Conr., < i Sow 



Solarium ornatum Lea, compared with Solarium canaliculatum Lara. 

 Pleurotoma nodo carinata Gabb, compared with Pleurotoma denticula 



Bast. 

 Mesostoma rugosa Heilpr., compared with Mesostoma grata Desh. 

 Melania Claibornensis Heilpr., " " Melania mixta Desh. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



American ones. From these examinations I have been able to 

 identify the following additional species : — - 



1. Cfirithium trilineatum Phil. 

 ?1833. Cerithium turellum Grat. 



Grateloup, Tabl. des Coq. foss. du bassiu de I'Ad. Act. Linn., v, 5. 

 p. 277. 

 1836. Cerithium trilineatum Phil. 



R. A. Philippi, Enumeratio moUuscorum Sicilise, etc., vol. i, p. 195, 

 tab. 11, tig. IB. 



1840. Cerithium tenbralia Ad. 



C. B. Adams, Desci'. of thirteen new spec, of New England shells. 

 Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. iii, p. 330, tab. 3, fig. 7. 



1841. Terebra constricia H. C. Lea. 



H. C. Lea, Descr. of some new spec, of foss. shells from the Eocene of 

 Claiborne, Ala.; Am. Journ. Sc a. Arts, vol. xi, p. 100, tab. 1, fig. 

 18, read Oct. 1840, publ. 1841. 

 1843. Cerithium trilineatum Phil. 



Philippi, Beitr. z. Kenntu. d. Tertiaerverstein. d. nordwestl. Deutsch- 

 lands, p. 23, p. 56, p. 75. 

 1848 Cerithium trilineatum Phil. 



Wood, Crag Mollusca, vol. i, p. 70, tab. 8, fig. 4 a. 

 1856. Cei'ithium trilineatum Phil. 



Hcernes, fossil. Moll. d. Tertiaerbeck. v. Wien, vol. i, p. 413, tab. 43, 

 fig. 19. 

 1864. Cerithium trilineatum Phil. 



Speyer, Tertiaerfaiina v. Soelilngen, Palceontographica, vol- ix, p. 33. 



1866. Cerithium mundulum Desh. 



Deshayes, Anim. s. verteb. du bassin de Paris, vol. iii, p. 233, tab. 79, 

 fig. 31, 33. 



1867. Cerithium Sandbergeri (y Koenen non Desh. ); 



v. Koenen, Marine Mitteloligocsen v. Norddeutschland, Palseontogr., 

 xvi, p. 104. 

 1883. Cerithium Sandbergeri (Meyer non Desh.). 



O Meyer. Beitr. z. Kenntn. der Maerk. Rupelthons, Ber. d. Senckenb. 

 Naturforsch. Ges., Frankfurt a. M., 1883-1883, p. 261. 

 1883. Cerithium Meyeri (Boettg. ; [no description given]. 



Lepsius, Mainzer Becken, p. 50. 

 1883. Cerithiopsis Meyeri Boettg. ; n. »p, 



Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg, 

 1883, p. 347. 

 Terebra trilirata Conrad. When and where ? 



Having seen Cerithium trilineatum Phil, occurring in the 

 European and American older and newer Tertiar^y, as well as in 

 the Mediterranean, I sought for it among the recent shells of the 

 American Eastern coast, and have received, through the kindness 




106 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



of Professor Yerrill, specimens of Cer. terebralis Ad., which 

 species was the looked-for identical one. 



The description and figure of Terehra constyHcta H. C. Lea are 

 poor, but there is no doubt about this determination of my 

 specimens from . Claiborne, which are quite identical with the 

 German ones. 



Among the synonyma, Ger.mundulum'DQ?,\\. is given, although 

 I have no specimens of this species ; but I cannot find any differ- 

 ence to distinguish it from the figure and description given by 

 Deshayes of Cer. trilineatum^ and, as such a competent observer 

 as Speyer has said the same, I do not think I have made a 

 mistake. 



Cer. trilineatum, occui's in the American Miocene. I received 

 one specimen of it labeled : " Terehra trilirata Conr.," but I 

 could not find this name in any of Conrad's papers. Professor 

 Heilprin writes to me : "Possibly it is one of the numerous forms 

 that Conrad named without description." 



If Cer. trilineatum Phil, should be identical with Cer. turellum 

 Grat., of which I have no specimens, the latter name would have 

 the priority. 



Cer. trilineatum Phil, is generally distributed in the older and 

 later Tertiary and also at the present time on both sides of the 

 Atlantic. 



2. Pleurotoma denticala Bast. 



1835. Basterot, Descr. Geol. du bassin tert. sud-ouest de la France, p. 63, 



tab. 3, fig. 12. 

 1833. Pleurotoma Bmimonti Lea. 



I. Lea, Contrib. to Geology, p. 134, tab. 4, fig. 127. 

 1844. Pleurotoma denticula Bast. 



Nyst. Descr. des. Coq. foss. de la Be1g., p. 526, tab. 44, fig. 3. 



1860. Turris nodo-carinata Gabb, fide Heilpr. 



Gabb, Descr. of new spec, of Am. Tert. a. Cret. foss. ; Journ. Ac. Nat. 

 Sc. Philad., vol. iv, 2d series, p. 379, tab. 67, fig. 13. 



1861. Pleurotoma denticula Bast. 



Edwards, Monogr. of Brit. Eocene, p. 286, tab. 30, fig. 7 a-h, 

 1867. Pleurotoma denticula Bast. 



V. Koeuen, Mar. Mitteloligocsen, p. 89. 

 1879. Pleurotoma denticula Bast. 



•Heilprin, Proc. Ac. INat. Sc. Philad., p. 214, tab. 13, fig. 10. 



The last named author writes that he found Pleur. denticula Bast, 

 in Claiborne sand. He figures a specimen without the upper part 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 10 Y 



of the spire and determined this species from descriptions and 

 figures of European specimens. It is here only necessary to say 

 that I concur in Heilprin's determination after liaving compared 

 perfect shells from Claiborne with perfect German ones (Stern- 

 berger Oligocene). In my opinion a direct comparison of specimens 

 is conditio sine qua non in the identification of species from both 

 sides of the Atlantic. 



The Claiborne specimens are apparently Pleur. Baumonti Lea, 

 but the name of Basterot has the priority. 



Pleur. denticula Bast., which occurs also in Italy, seems to be 

 widely spread in the Tertiary. 



3. Pleurotoma Volgeri Phil. 



? 1804. Pleurotoma terebralis Lamarck. 



Deshayes, Coq. foss. 1824-37, vol. 11, p. 455, tab. 62, flg. 14-16. 



1846. Pleurotoma Volgeri Phil. 



Phillppi,Verzeich. d. In d. Geg. v. Magdeburg aufgef. Tertlaerverstein., 

 Palseontographica, 1, Aug. 1846, p. 69, tab. 10 a, fig. 2. 



1847. Pleurotoma cristata Conr. 



Com-ad, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phllad., ill, p. 284 (no figure). 



1848. Pleurotoma cristata Cdnr. 



Conrad, Journ. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phllad., 1, 2d series, p. 115, tab. 11, 

 fig. 20. 

 1860. Turris cristata Conr. 



Gabb, Journ. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phllad., vol. Ix, 2d series, p. 378, tab. 67, 

 fig. 12, non fig. 8. 

 ? 1861. Pleurotoma Volgeri Phil. 



Edwards, Monogr. of the Eocene Moll, of England, p. 275, tab. 30, 

 fig. 15 a, b, non fig. 13. (Publ. Paleontogr. Soc. London, issued as 

 volume for 1858, publ. 1861.) 

 ? 1861. Pleurotoma terebralis Lam. 



Edwards, ibid., p. 233, tab. 27, fig. 10 a-k. 

 1865. Cochlespira engonata Conr. 



Conrad, Am. Journ. of Couchology, 1, p. 142, figm-e in the same volume, 

 tab. 21, fig. 12. 

 1865. Cochlespira bella Conr. 



Conrad, ibid., p. 210, tab. 21, fig. 6. 

 1867. Pleurotom,a. Volgeri Phil. 



V. Koenen, Mar. Mlttelollgocsen, Palaentogr., xvl, p. 92. 

 1867. Pleurotoma Volgeri Phil. 



Speyer, Conch yl. d. Casseler Tertlaers, Palseontogr., xvl, p. 193, tab. 

 19, fig. 12 a, b. 

 1872. Pleurotoma terebralis Lam. 



Koch und Wiechmann, Die Molluskenfauna des Sternberger Gesteins 

 in Mecklenburg, p. 66. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



With the German specimens of the Maerkische Rupelthon and 

 the Sternberger Oligocene, two specimens from Ashley, S. C, 

 one from the upper strata of Claiborne (which are apparently 

 Oligocene), and one specimen of typical Pleurot. cristata Conr. 

 from Vicksbnrg were compared. The latter was obtained for 

 comparison through the kindness of Professor Heilprin of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Both German and American forms vary in slenderness ; Coch- 

 lespira engonata Conr. is apparently one of the shorter speci- 

 mens. In the Ameiican forms the number and sculpture of the 

 revolving lines seem to be generally more developed, but these 

 vary too. Conrad says : " Cochlesp. bella differs from G. cristata 

 in having fewer and coarser lines and a more prominent carina." 



What Edwards figures as Pleur. Volgeri Phil, looks quite 

 different. Much more like seems to be his PL terehralis Lam., 

 of which he describes six varieties. The opinions of the German 

 authors as to the identity of P. Volgeri Phila. and P. terehralis 

 Lam. are varying. I am greatly inclined toward uniting them, 

 but for want of sufficient material prefer withholding a positive 

 opinion on this point. 



4. Saxicava arctica L. 



1766. Mya arctica L. 



Linn., Syst. Nat. ed. 13, p. 1113. 

 1836. Saxicava arctica L. 



Philippi, Enum. Mollusc. Sicil., etc., i, p. 20j tab. 3, fig. 3. 

 1838. Saxicava biUneata Conr. 



Conrad, Medial Tertiary or Miocene fossils of the U. Si, p. 18, tab. 10, 

 flg. 4. 

 1844. Saxicava arctica L, 



Nyst., Coq. foss. Belg., p/ 95, tab. 3, fig. 15 a-c. 



1846. Saxicava arctica L. 



Loven, Ind. moll. Scand., p. 40. 



1848. Saxicava arctica L. 



S. V. Wood, Crag. Moll., ii, p. 287, tab, 29, fig. 4 a, b. 

 1856. Saxicava arctica L. 



Hoernes, Wiener Becken, p. 24, tab. 3, fig. 1, 3, 4. 

 ? 1860. Saxicava Jeurensis Desh. 



Deshayes, Anim. s. verteb., i, p. 170, tab. 10, fig. 18, 19, 20. 

 1863. Saxicava bicristata Sandb. 



Sandberger, Concbyl. d. Mainzer Beckens, p. 277, tab. 21, fig. 6. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 109 



1864. Saxicava bicrisfata Sandb. 



Speyer, Tertiaerfauiia v. Soellingen, Palaeontogr., ix, p. 48. 



1867. Saxicava arctica L. 



Weinkauff, Conch yl. d. Mifctelmeeres, i, p. 20., 



1868. Saxicava arctica L. 



V. Koenen, Marin. Mitteloligocaen, 2d part, Palseontogr., xvi, p. 266. 



Two specimens of Saxicava hilineata Conr. from the American 

 Miocene prove to be the same variety as S. hicristata Sandb. 



Wood has alread}- said in 1848 (Crag. Moll. p. 288) : ^^ Saxicava 

 bilineata Conr. is probably another variety of this species " 

 (S. arctica). 



I cannot see in tlie fignre of S. Jeurensis Desh. any difference 

 from our species. Y. Koenen seems to be of the same opinion. 



Saxicava arctica L. seems to be generally distributed in the 

 older and later Tertiary and in the present time on both sides of 

 tlie Atlantic. 



New species were found bj^ me in Claiborne snnd, belonging to 

 the American Museum of Natural History in New York, and 

 which had been examined several times before. Afterwards I re- 

 ceived sand from Claiborne myself and found most of these species 

 again, as well as others that are new. Onlj- the three following 

 species, however, are published here, chiefl}^ because the state of 

 the literature on North American Tertiary invertebrates makes 

 it almost impossible to determine with certainty new species and 

 to find and to describe the differences from similar forms, already 

 named.* 



* In White's Bibliography there are given nearly seventy papers of the 

 main author of this literature, T, A. Conrad, containing notes on American 

 Tertiary niollusks ; and even this list is not complete. Conrad's description 

 and figures are mostly poor or very poor. He published a great many 

 fossils without figures, many without localities, and not a few without 

 giving even the formation ; I have also found one without a name (Proc. 

 Ac. Phil., 1862, p. 288). In his two check lists of the older Tertiary 

 (1865 and 1866) he ignores the species of H. C. Lea, and does not 

 give an account even of all his own. Having a tendency to describe a 

 variety as a new species and a species as a new genus, he found, of course, 

 that not only the Miocene species are all diftercnt from the Eocene ones, 

 but that even the groups of tl^c Am. Eocene "hold few, if any, species in 

 common." 




110 



PROCEEKISQS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



PTEROPODA. 



Tibiella Marshi (nov. gen. et nov. spec.)* 



Shell thin, tubular. The closed end little convex. The lower 

 part, about one third of the whole length, of 

 a circular section, then by tapering a little 

 forming a kind of a neck, above which the 

 shell is of a rounded trigonal section. Aper- 

 ture dilated. 

 Length, 3^ mm. 



Locality. — Eocene sand from Claiborne, 

 Ala. 



Remarks. — If the figured specimen is adult, 

 in the young ones the apex ma}^ be perhaps 

 acute and afterwards partitioned off, as in the genus Tripter-a 

 Quo}^ et Gaimard ( Guviera Rang). 



This genus is allied to Tibiella, and the latter is perhaps a sub- 

 genus of the former. 



Pteropoda are described from the Miocene and Oligocene, but 

 as far as I am acquainted with the litei'ature this is the first 

 Pteropod from the Eocene. 



OPISTHOBRANCHIAT^. 



Balla biumlilicata (nov. sp.). 



Shell small, moderately thick, oval, the upper end obliquely 

 truncated and umbilicated, the lower end somewhat tapering. 

 Last whorl most prominent at about one- 

 third of the whole length. Outer lip? Inner 

 lip below with a large trigonal thin callus, 

 which covers a minute umbilicus. Surface 

 with revolving lines, disappearing at both 

 ends and generally' most distant from each 

 other at about the middle of the shell. A 

 strong magnifying glass shows that these 

 lines are furrows, looking like pearl-ribbons, 

 which structure causes the surface to look 

 at some places as if it were minutely longitudinally costated. 

 Length, 2i mm. 



* Genus name from the resemblance to the tibia of mammals. This 

 species is dedicated to Professor Marsh, who enabled me to work by sup- 

 plying me from his library with a large part of the necessary literature, 

 which I could uot get elsewhere. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Locality. — Eocene sand from Claiborne, Ala. 



Remarks. — One specimen, the outer lip of which is not quite 

 perfect. 



An allied form seems to be Bulla Horyii Gabb, of Fort Tejon, 

 Cal. (Gabb, Paleontology of California, vol. i, 1864, p. 143 [non 

 p. 140], tab. 29, fig. 235), but this species is larger, thin, has no 

 callus and seems to differ besides in form and sculpture. Gabb 

 says : " Surface marked by numerous, very fine, impressed re- 

 volving lines." 



Very similar is Bulla omdata Lam. (Deshayes, Coq. foss. des 

 env. de Paris, vol. ii, p. 39, tab. 5, fig. 13, 14, 15), but without 

 callus. 



Bulla siibspissa Conr. (Proe. Ac. Philad., vol. iii, 1846, p. 20, 

 tab. 1, fig. 29) from the Miocene of Calvert CliflTs, Md., seems to 

 be of smootli surface; at least Conrad does not say anything 

 about sculpture. 



I cannot give the differences from Bulla petrosa Conr. {Am. 

 Journ. Sc. a. Arts, vol. ii, 2d series, 1846, p. 399), as Conrad's full 

 .description of this shell is the following : — 



" Bulla jyetrosa.—^Oyal, destitute of striae ?, summit oblique." 



GASTEROPODA. 



Cadalus depressue (nov. sp.). 



Smooth, shining, gently curved, inflation not very prominent. 

 Section everywhere an oval, one side of 

 which is a little flatter than the otlier. 

 Both ends oblique. 



Length, 7 mm. 



Locality. — Eocene sand from Claiborne, 

 Ala. ■ I I O 



Remarks. — The aperture of the figured 

 specimen is not pei'fect, but I know that 

 it is of the form indicated in the figure, 

 from other specimens. I have seen alto- 

 gether about a dozen specimens, and all 

 are everywhere of the same oval section. 



There are to be compared three North 

 American species of Cadulus : — 



1. Gadus pusillus Gabb, of the Tejon group, Martinez, Cal. 

 [Cretaceous or Tertiary ?] (Gabb, Paleont. of Cal., vol. i, 1864, 

 p. 139, tab. 21, fig. 99). Gabb says : " section circular." 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



2. Dentalium thallus Conr., of the Miocene of the Southern States 

 (Journ. Ac. Nat. Sc. Philarl., vol. vii, 1st series, 1834, p. 142). The 

 specimens of this species in my possession have a circular section, 

 except at the aperture, where they are oval. It is the opinion of 

 ProfessorVerrill and of myself, that Cadulus Pandionis Verrill and 

 Smith (A. E. Verrill, Catal. of Mar. Moll., Transact. Connect. Ac, 

 vol. V, part. 2, 1882, p. 558, tab. 58, fig. 30 a) of the western part 

 of the Atlantic is identical with this Cadulus thallus Conr., 

 • although the latter form has the aperture generallj'^ a little more 

 oval. If Jeffreys is right (J. G. Jeffreys, " On the Moll, of the 

 Lightning and Porcupine expedition," part v) in uniting Cadulus 

 Pandionis Verrill and Smith, with Cadulus Olivi Scacchi from 

 the Pliocene of Sicily, it would result that both late Tertiarj"- 

 species are also identical, and this would be one more instance 

 of a Tertiary species occurring on both sides of the Atlantic. 



3.' Ditrupa suhcoarcuata Gabb, Eocene of Texas (Journ. Ac. 

 Nat. Sc. Philad., vol. ix, 2d series, 1860, p. 386, tab. 6T, fig. 47). 

 The description of Gabb is the following : " Arcuate, widened in 

 advance of tlie middle; aperture contracted, circular; surface 

 polished." As Gabb does not say anything about an oval section, 

 but on the contrary writes "aperture circular," it is apparently a 

 different species. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



April 1. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Review of the American species of the 

 Genus Trachynotus," by Seth E. Meek and David K. Goss, was 

 presented for publication. 



April 8. 



Rev. IIenry C. McCook, D. D., Yice-President, in the chair. 



Seventy -three persons present. 



A pn]Hr entitled " Descriptions of new species of Terrestrial 

 Mollusca of Cuba," by Rafael Arango, was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



Dr. Daniel G. Brinton wns inaugurated as Professor of Eth- 

 nology and Archeology, and delivered a lecture on " Prehistoric 

 Man in America." 



April 15. 



Mr. Chas. p. Perot in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Review of the American species of the 

 Genus Synodus," by Seth E. Meek, was presented for publication. 



On the Process of Digestion in Salpa. — Dr. Ch. S. Dolley 

 remarked that preliminary to giving the full results of a some- 

 what extended study of the histology of Salpa, he desired to make 

 a few remarks in reference to certain statements recentl}'^ made 

 by Dr. A. Korotneff of Moscow,^ which he considered erroneous 

 in so far as they indicate the presence of a huge amoeboid cell or 

 Plasmodium, in the oesophagus and stomach of Salpa, functioning 

 as a digestive organ. Dr. KorotneflF describes this cell as arising 

 from the repeated division of a single cell which earl}' in the life- 

 history of the animal is separated from the intestinal wall. This 

 giant-cell or plasmodium, acting like a huge rhizopod, carries on 



^ Ueber die Knospung der Anchinia in Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zoologie. Bd. 40, 

 Hft. i, 1884. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884-. 



a form of parencli3^matous digestion of the food taken by the 

 animal, passing the resulting chyle into the walls of the intestine 

 by means of its pseudopodia. Now by reference to an article by 

 MetschnikofT " On Intracellular Digestion in Invertebrates " (in 

 tlie Quarterl3^ Journal of Microscopical Science for Januar}^, 1884), 

 it will be seen that such a form as Korotneff describes has never 

 been met with, and his description stands alone and anomalous, 

 both as regards the situation and size of the digestive plasmodium, 

 and as to the method of its formation, for in all cases in which 

 such structures have been found in invertebrates, they have 

 always arisen by the fusion of separate cells, not from the 

 repeated division of one cell. In a large number of series 

 of sections made by the new " ribbon " method, the speaker was 

 not only unable to find " the lumen obliterated " by the peculiar 

 structure of the wall of the intestine described by Korotneff, but 

 in a model of the visceral nucleus made after Born's " platten- 

 modillir method" the lumen of the entire intestinal canal is shown 

 to be completely tree throughout. He did, however, get sections 

 which gave pictures almost identical with those portrayed by 

 Korotneff, i. e. the lumen filled with what he describes as a large 

 nucleated granular cell, containing various food particles, and he 

 could trace this so-called " cell," not only back into " the portion 

 of the intestine lying next to the stomach," but through the 

 rectum into the cloacal chamber, and through the oesophagus 

 into the branchial sac. He accounts for it as follows : The endo- 

 style of Salpa has been very carefully studied by Hermann Fol, 

 wiio demonstrated, by means of carmine suspended in water, that 

 it threw out a constant stream of mucus when excited by the 

 presence of nutritive material in the same water, with a reflex 

 action like a salivary gland. The mucus is, by an arrangement 

 of cilia, spread out like a curtain over the inner surface of the 

 branchial sac, when it acts as a means for catching the food 

 particles from the ingurgitated water. B3' the action of ciliary 

 bands bordering the groove of the endostyle, the mucus is swept 

 towards the oesophagus, and as it approaches this, it is, by means 

 of the stiff cilia on the sides of the gill, twisted into a thread, and 

 carried by a continuation of the aforesaid bordering bands, 

 through the oesophagus, into the stomach. Now in studying a 

 series of sections of a Salpa which had had abundant food, we 

 find as we approach the oesophagus a mass of material answering 

 to the description of Korotneff's " rhizopod." It takes staining 

 readily and may be traced backward into and through the oesoph- 

 agus, stomach and intestine. As the sections approach the 

 rectum, however, the mass graduall}^ ceases to take staining, and 

 is much more distinctly marked out from the intestinal wall, 

 having had all the organic matter digested out, and consisting 

 only of the inorganic remains, which do not stain. The alimen- 

 tary matter of Salpai is composed of animal and vegetal elements 

 in nearly equal proportions, and the microscope reveals the cal- 




1884.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



careous shells of Foraminifera, the beautifully sculptured frustules 

 of Diatomacese,keen siliceous needles, and the sharp armatures of 

 minute Crustacea. 



In the fore-part of the intestinal canal, the food mass, staining 

 almost as readily as the wall of the gut itself, seems to merge into 

 the ill-defined epithelium of the latter, and it is scarcel}'^ possible 

 to say where the food-bearing mucous thread ceases and the 

 intestinal epithelium begins, especially as this latter has a rugous 

 arrangement. That we have here to do with a form of digestion 

 entirel}^ anomalous and unprecedented, he could not believe, and 

 must beg leave to differ from Dr. Korotneff on this point. Foland 

 others have recognized the endostyle as a sort of salivary gland, 

 and have traced its food-laden mucous thread into the stomach of 

 the living animal, while the speaker had been able to trace the 

 same thing in well-preserved specimens. He had also several 

 series of sections from animals which must have been without 

 food for some time previous to death, in which the lumen of tlie 

 intestine is not only free of food, but of any obliterating mass of 

 cells, or Plasmodium. The only protoplasmic bodies not food, 

 are certain Gregarina-like organisms adhering to the walls of 

 various parts of the intestine, and which he took to be parasites. 

 These give on section the appearance of the large "scattered cells, 

 entirely free from their surroundings " which Korotneff figures 

 and regards as " analogous to the great stomach-cell of Anchinia.''^ 

 The first opportunity would be taken to examine these structures 

 in living Salpse, but he was now forced to conclude that Dr. 

 Korotneff has endowed the food-bearing mucous thread with a 

 power it does not possess, that Salpa does not exhibit any 

 unusual form of intracellular digestion, and that there is no im- 

 mediate cause on its account for questioning the high genetic 

 place occupied by the Tunicates. 



A Preliminary Note on a Reaction common to Peptone and Bile- 

 salts. — Dr. N. A. Randolph stated that if the acid nitrate of 

 mercury (Millon's reagent) be added to a cold aqueous solution 

 of potassium iodide, a red precipitate of mercuric iodide always 

 appeal's. When, however, either peptones or the biliary salts are 

 present in noteworthy amount, the precipitate of nascent mercuric 

 iodide assumes the yellow phase. As practicallj^ applied, the 

 red may vary from salmon to scarlet, the yellow from pale 

 lemon to orange. 



In order to render the test sensitive to the presence of minute 

 quantities of the substances in question, he had found it necessary 

 to limit the amount of potassium iodide employed. Thus to each 

 five cubic centimetres of the suspected fluid — which must be cold 

 and either neutral or faintly acid — are added two drops of a 

 saturated solution of potassium iodide, the two liquids being well 

 mixed. Four ox fiv« drops of Millon's reagent are now added, the 

 contents of the vessel thoroughly stirred or shaken. Under these 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



circumstances the presence of peptone in amounts of less than 

 one part in five thousand is readily shown. By the exercise of 

 great care in the performance of this test he had been enabled to 

 demonstrate the ])resi-nce of peptone in a solution containing 

 but one part of that body in seventeen thousand parts of water. 



The condititjus interfering with this reaction are : alkalinity of 

 the fluid examined (readily overcome. by neutralization); heat, 

 "which has the same influence upon the nascent mercuric iodide as 

 have peptone and the bile-salts ; and the presence of certain com- 

 pounds, as potassium ferrocj'anide, which chemically prevent the 

 production of the mercuric iodide. 



The reaction just described presents certain advantage from the 

 fact that it is uninfluenced by the bodies usuall}^ found in the 

 various organic fluids. It is efficient in the presence of a twenty 

 percent, solution of serum ; the presence of considerable amounts 

 of coagulated albumen and of acid-albumen does not interfere with 

 the test. The following bodies in moderate amount do not affect 

 the reaction : Saliva, S^'utonin, Am3^gdalin, Para-Albumen, Dias- 

 tase, Kreatin, Leucin, Pyrosin, Mucic Acid, Glucose, Urea, Uric 

 Acid, Nitric, Hydrochloric, Sulphuric and Picric Acids, Gl3'c- 

 erine, Alcohol, Atropia Sulphate, Pilocarpin Nitrate, Caff'eine, 

 Sodium Carbonate, Ammonium Oxalate, Sodium Phosphate, and 

 Manganese Chloride and Ferric Chloride. 



It is obvious that this reaction is useless to the student as an 

 isolated test, inasmuch as it responds to two entirely distinct 

 compounds, but its simplicity and striking colorations give it 

 very considerable value when employed in cori'oboration of other 

 tests. 



Botanical Notes. — At the meeting of the Botanical Section on 

 April 14, Mr. Thomas Meehan made some observations on the 

 following topics : — 



Evolution of Heat in Plants. — Referring to some observations 

 of Kerner respecting the thawing out of chambers in ice by living 

 plants in the Alps of Europe, he confirmed them by observations 

 on Erartthis hyemalis made during the past, winter. At the end 

 of January the plant was in flower after a few warm days, when a 

 driving snow-storm prostrated the little stems, and covered them 

 nearly a foot deep, in which condition they remained till earl}' in 

 March. After they had been three weeks in this condition, the 

 snow was carefully removed, when it was found that the stems 

 had become perfectly erect, and a little chamber in the snow had 

 been thawed out about each flower-stem. There was, however, no 

 other evidence of growth. The few buds which were unopened 

 when the snow came, were still unopened when the snow thawed 

 away, after five weeks' imprisonment; and the idea conveyed was 

 that plants would retain life, without growth, for an indefinite time, 

 when under a low temperature, such as a covering of ice or snow 

 afforded. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Relation of Heat to the Sexes of Flowers. — He referred to his 

 former communications to the Academy regarding his discovery 

 that the male flowers or male organs of flowers entered on active 

 growth at a much lower temperature than excited tlie female, and 

 exhibited catkins and female flowers of the European hazel-nut, 

 Gorylus Avellana,}ViSt matured April 15, and which, for the first 

 time in several years past, had perfected themselves coterapora- 

 neously. This was the first winter for some time that there had 

 been a uniform low temperature the whole season. In other years 

 a few warm da3's in winter would advance the male flowers so that 

 they would mature weeks before the female flowers opened, hence 

 the females were generally unfertilized, and there were few or no 

 nuts. Under this law it was evident amentaceous plants could 

 not abound to any great extent in countries or in localities favor- 

 able to bringing forward the male flowers before there was steady 

 warmth enough to advance the female. He thought this was 

 likely to be the reason whj^ so many coniferous trees under culture 

 in the vicinity of Philadelphia bore scarcely any fertile seed in 

 their cones — a fact which had often been remarked in connection 

 especially with the Norway spruce. The male flowers would 

 mature before the female had advanced far enough to be receptive 

 of the pollen. 



Specif c Differences in Picea nigra — It was regarded as some- 

 what diflftcult to distinguish between the red and black spruces, 

 Mr. Meehan exhibited authentic specimens of these and the white 

 spruce, and pointed out the persistent character of the cones in 

 Picea nigra, to which his attention had been called b}^ Mr. Robt. 

 Douglas, of Waukegan, Illinois. They were still attached to the 

 branches exhibited. 



The Flowers of Platanus. — Having an opportunit}^ to examine 

 a large tree of Platanus occidentalism no exception could be found 

 to the rule that the pedicel proceeded from the third node in the 

 season's growth. It appeared also that in the formation of the 

 pedicel, the growth of the branch was always almost arrested — 

 but not sufflcientl3^ so but that it seemed to recover and make a 

 second growth. In many cases the annual growth was completely 

 suppressed, and only a terminal bud was formed just above the 

 axis of the pedicel ; but in most cases, another or secondary 

 growth followed the first temporary check and a shoot of several 

 nodes would be formed bej^ond the point of departure of the 

 pedicel. The same rule prevailed in Platanus orientalis. 



Variation in Symjolocos foetidus. — Mr. Meehan had made it a 

 point for some years to take, as opportunit}' ottered, some genus 

 of only a single species within a large range of territory, and note 

 the variation therein. In this wa}' we could often see a vast 

 amount of variation, which could not be started by an}^ hybridi- 

 zation with other forms, but which must have been produced by 

 some law of evolution within itself. p]ven though one might 

 believe himself to be quite familiar with the skunk cabbage, 




118 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Symplocos fcetidus, he would be surprised at the great amount 

 of variation it presented, even in a small area, when the variations 

 were looked for by comparison. He had himself seen a plant 

 bearing spathes four inches long, with its next neighbor having 

 one a little over an inch — no larger than a walnut. Some would 

 be globular, some ovate, some linear, some terminating in an 

 abrupt point, others lengthened into a long straight or curved 

 beak. The variations in color were too well known to need more 

 than this bare reference. It was not uncommon to hear variation 

 attributed to environment, by which we are to understand external, 

 and in a measure accidental circumstances. Environment might 

 be led to include some external influence operating on the primary 

 cell, giving birth to the subsequent individual exemplifying the 

 variation. 



But in this sense, change by environment would be the 

 merest guess, as no evidence had been offered in support of any 

 special influence then not exerted. At other times no great varia- 

 tion followed, and possibly no one would want to embrace this 

 point in a definition of environment. 



Sugar in Cladastris tincio->ia. — In Mr. Meehan's garden at 

 Germantown, there were few ti-ees but which exuded sap from 

 wounds made in winter or earlj^ spring, but among them all, few 

 bled, as it was termed by horticulturists, more profusely than 

 Cladastris tincloria ( Virgilia lutea Mx.). The icicles formed from 

 this exuding sap afforded a good opportunity to test the saccha- 

 rine character of the liquid. During congelation by frost all 

 foreign substances are rejected, and in the formation of the 

 icicle the sugar is pushecl forward to the extreme point. The 

 end of an icicle of a sugar maple is its only sweet part, and this 

 was very sweet from the accumulation of the saccharine matter. 

 The end of the icicle from the Cladastris was also sweet, though 

 less so than in any other sugar-bearing trees he had observed. 



April 22. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Vertebrate Fossils from Florida. — Prof. Leidy directed atten- 

 tion to some fossils, part of a. collection recently referred to him 

 for examination by the Smithsonian Institution. They consist 

 of remains mostly of large terrestrial mammals, especially related 

 with forms which now live in the intertropical portions of the 

 old world. Obtained in Florida, they are of additional interest 

 as evidences of the existence in this region of a formation of 

 tertiary age not previously known. An accompanying letter from 

 Dr. J. C. Neal, of Archer, Florida, informs. us that the fossils. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



were discovered in a bed of clay, occupying a ridge in the pine 

 forest. They occurred over an irregular area of one hundred feet 

 long by thirty feet wide, and were dug from variable depths 

 of seven feet to the bed-rock, the character of which is not 

 stated. The fossils, consisting of bones and a few teeth, are 

 mostly in fragments, but exhibit no appearance of being water- 

 worn, or abraded by friction among gravel. In the collection, 

 for the present hastily examined, there may be observed the fol- 

 lowing more conspicuous remains : — 



1. Those of a young mastodon, consisting of bone fragments 

 and detached epiphyses. The epiphysial head of a femur meas- 

 ures 6^ inches in diameter. In the clay adherent to the rough 

 under surface, the vertebra of a teleost fish is imbedded. An 

 astragalus measures i^ inches fore and aft, and 5i inches trans- 

 versely. 



2. Remains, apparently of several individuals of a rhinoceros, 

 rather smaller than the Indian rhinoceros. Among them are 

 small fragments of a mandible, and portions of lower molar teeth. 

 The nearly complete crown of one of the latter measures 2^ 

 inches fore and aft, with 1| inches width in front. The limb 

 bones indicate an animal of shorter stature, but equallj^ robust 

 proportions to those of the Indian rhinoceros. There are two 

 nearly entire radii, 9 inches long, by 3^ inches width at the prox- 

 imal, and 3| inches width at the distal end. The distal exti'emity 

 of a femur measures (i inches at the epicondyles. The head of a 

 tibia is 5^ inches wide and 3j inches fore and aft. A calcaneum 

 is 5 inches long. Three middle metacarpels exhibit the following 

 measurements : — 



Length, ... 4^ inches, 4 inches, 3| inches. 

 Width, proximal end, 2| " 2^ " 2| " 

 Width, distal end, . 2^ " 2i " 2| " 



3. Small fragments of the maxillae of a tapir; one with an 

 entire molar tooth, which differs neither in form nor size from the 

 corresponding tooth of the living Tapirus aviericanus. The 

 tooth measures 11 lines fore and aft by 13 lines transversely. 



4. Remains, apparently of a llama, as large as the camel. 

 The distal end of a metacarpel is about 4 inches in breadth. A 

 first phalanx is 4^ inches long by 2^ inches wide at the proximal 

 end and 1| inches at the distal end. 



5. A calcaneum of a ruminant, not quite so long as that of the 

 Irish elk, but of more robust proportions. Its reference is un- 

 certain, and it is doubtful whether it pertains to the extinct 

 Cervus americanus. 



6. The vertebral centrum of a small crocodile. 



T. Remains of several other animals undetermined. 




120 proceedings op the academy op [1884. 



April 29. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twent^-^-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Fossils from ihe four groups of the 

 Niagara Period of Western New York," by Eugene N. S. Ringue- 

 berg, was presented for publication. 



On the Digestion of Raw and of Boiled 3Iilk. — Dr. N. A. Ran- 

 dolph referred to certain profound changes produced in milk by 

 boiling. In this opei-ation the casein is not coagulated, but there 

 is an evolution of sulphuretted h^^drogen (Schreiner), a diminu- 

 tion in the gaseous constituents of the fluid and a change in the 

 amount of ozone present. 



The most striking difference between raw and boiled milk lay 

 in their respective responses to rennet, acids and alkalies. 



At the body-temperature the Arm coagulation of raw milk 

 occurred almost immediately upon the addition of a neutral 

 rennet solution, whereas boiled milk, under the same conditions, 

 did not clot for a far longer period, and the coagula were not 

 firm. On the other hand, dilute or strong acids were tenfold as 

 active upon boiled as upon raw milk. Some time after making 

 these experiments Dr. Randolph found that so far as acids and 

 rennet were concerned, similar results had been obtained by 

 Sohreiner (Chem. Centralbl., III. Folge, IX. Jahrg.), and lie 

 desired to present his observations in these particulars simply- as 

 confirmatory of those of that observer. 



Upon the addition of dilute alkalies to boiled milk, the rise 

 of cream was much more rapid and complete than in raw milk 

 under the same conditions. 



Artificial digestions showed that milk was more readily digested 

 when raw than when boiled. This was further coufirmetl by a 

 comparative examination and weighing (in over fifty cases, and 

 in which he was aided by Dr. Roussel) of the contents of the 

 stomach after rawand boiled milk had been, in different individuals, 

 undergoing actual gastric digestion. In these cases the residue 

 found in the stomachs of those persons receiving boiled milk 

 was greater than the similar residue found in the stomachs where 

 raw milk had been undergoing digestion for the same length of 

 time. 



The following were elected members : Messrs. J. L. Forwood, 

 L. Woolman, John Eyerman, Edw. Jackson, E. J. Wheelock and 

 Miss S. D. Atkinson, 



Ernest Andre, of Gra}^, Haute Saone, France, was elected a 

 correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 121 



A EEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS TRACHYNOTUS. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND DAVID K. GOSS. 



In the present paper we give the synonymy of the species 

 of Trachynotus found in American waters, with brief de- 

 scriptions of those known to us found on the Atlantic Coast. 

 The latter are here all described from specimens obtained by 

 Professor Jordan at Havana and Key West. We are very much 

 indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his library and for 

 valuable aid. 



In the following analysis of species, Trachynotus marginatus is 

 omitted, the original description being too insufficient for com- 

 parison. Of the remaining seven species, two (rhomboides, 

 glaucus) appear to be confined to the Atlantic ; two others {ken- 

 nedyi, fasciatus) represent those on the Pacific Coast, while the 

 others (rhodopus, carolinus, cayennensis) appear to be found on 

 both sides, although in the case of rhodopus and carolinus being 

 far more abundant in the Atlantic. 



Analysis of Species of Trachynotus. 

 a. Dorsal with 19 to 20 soft rays ; anal with It to 19 soft rays. 

 b. Body very much compressed ; sides with narrow black cross- 

 bars ; lobes of vertical fins elongate, reaching past middle 

 of caudal fin in adult. 

 c. Snout subtruncate or nearly vertical ; profile from supra- 

 orbital to front of dorsal fin convex. glaucus. 1. 

 cc. Snout low, very oblique ; profile from supraorbital region 

 to the dorsal scarcely convex. fasciatus. 2. 

 bb. Body moderately compressed ; sides without narrow black 

 cross-bars ; lobes of vertical fins shorter, rarely reaching 

 base of caudal ; lobes of dorsal and anal usually 

 blackish. 

 d. Body broad, ovate ; the greatest depth at all ages more 

 than half length of bod}^ ; lobes of the vertical fins 

 reaching in the adult beyond the middle of their 

 fins. 

 e. Axil with a large black spot (in the adult) ; profile 

 strongl}' convex anteriorly. kennedyi. 3, 

 ee. Axil without dark spot ; profile from nostril to dorsal 

 everywhierp about equally convex. 

 9 rhomboides. 4. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



dd. Body oblong ; the dej)th in young and old about | 

 length of body. rhodopus. 5. 



aa. Dorsal with 25 to 21 soft ra3'S ; anal with 22 to 26 soft rays ; 

 body oblong, rather robust ; greatest thickness 3 in greatest 

 depth of body ; depth less than half length ; lobes of 

 vertical fins short, not black ; sides without dark cross- 

 bars. 



/. Dorsal with 25 soft rays ; anal with 22 soft rays ; 

 profile from snout to procumbent spine evenly 

 convex. carolinus. 6. 



^. Dorsal with 21 ; anal with 26 soft rays, 



cayennensis. *l. 



Trachynotus glaucus. Gaff-top-nail Pompano. Old loife. 



ChoBtodon glaucus Bloch, Ichthyologia, PI. ccx, about 1783 (oij a figure 

 by Plumier). 



AcantMnion glaucus Lacdpede, iv, 1803, 500 (copied). 



Trachinotus glaucus Cuvier & Yalencieuues, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 1831, 

 400 (Brazil, Havana, Mexico, San Domingo, Martinique and Gua- 

 deloupe) ; Guichenot, "Poiss. Ramon de la Sagra, Hist, Cuba, 107, 

 1845" (Cuba). 



Trachynotus glaucus Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mns., ii, 1860, 483 

 (Antilles, Jamaica and Rio Janeiro) ; Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1862, 438 (Charleston, S. C.) ; Gill, Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 

 1871-2, 803 (name only) ; Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,' 1879, 112 

 (name only) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Fish Com.. 1881, 37, 40 (Ber- 

 mudas) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 237 (name 

 only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S Nat. Mus., 1882, 270 (Pensa- 

 cola) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 443 ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, op. cit, 912. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coasts of America : Charleston, Pensaeola, 

 Key West, Bermudas, Jamaica, Antilles, Guadaloupe, Martinique 

 and Rio Janeiro. Also erroneously ascribed (by confusion with 

 Trachynotus fasciatua) to Lower California and Panama. 



Head 4 in length of body ; depth 2 ; D. VI-I, 19 ; A. II-I, 18 ; 

 length (No. 440, I. U. Key West) 13 inches. 



Body elliptical, much compressed ; snout blunt, subtruncate, 

 vertical from mouth to horizontal from upper edge of eye ; the 

 profile from supraorbital to front of dorsal fin convex ; eye Z% in 

 head ; mouth nearly horizontal ; maxillary nearly reaches ver- 

 tical from middle of ej'e, its length 3 in head ; jaws without 

 teeth in the adult ; dorsal spines separate, in the adult ; dorsal 

 and anal fins falcate, the anterior soft rays reaching middle of 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PUILADELPHIA. 123 



caudal fin; dorsal lobe U, anal If in length of body; ventrals 

 reaching | distance to vent, their length 2f in head ; caudal 

 very deeply forked, their lobes nearly half length of body. 

 Color bluish above, golden below ; lobes of dorsal and anal 

 very dark, rest of the fins pale, with bluish edges ; caudal bluish; 

 Pectorals golden and bluish ; ventrals whitish. Body crossed 

 by four black vertical bands ; the first is under the procumbent 

 spine, the second under the third dorsal spine, the third and 

 fourth under the soft dorsal. A black spot, representing a fifth 

 band, on latter line between the last rays of dorsal anal; this is 

 sometimes obsolete ; the position of these bands appears to be 

 subject to slight variation. The young of this species has not yet 

 been described. 



Trachynotus fasciatus. 



Trachynotus fasciatus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 86 (Cape 

 San Lucas) ; Giinther, Fishes Cent. America, 1869, 434 (Panama, 

 San Jose and Nicaragua) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1881, 232 (Porto Escondido, Mexico) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Com., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan, no description) ; Jordan* Gilbert, 

 Proc, U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 359 (Cape San Lucas, no description\ 

 Trachynotus glaucoides Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1864, 150 (San Jose ; 

 Nicaragua). 

 Habitat. — Pacific Coast of Tiopical America : Cape San Lucas, 

 Mazatlan, Porto Escondido, San Jose, Nicaragua, and Panama. 



This species is the Pacific representative of Trachynotus 

 glaucus, which species it strongly resembles. The diflTerence in 

 the profile is, however, constant and characteristic. 



Trachynotus kennedyi. 



Trachynotus kennedyi Steindachner, Icht' yol., Beitrage, ii', 1875, 47, PI. 



v;i, (Magdalena Bay) ; Giinther, Fish, Cent. Amer., 1869, 388 (in 



part, Panama). 

 Trachynotus ovatus Lockington, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1876, 4 



(Lower California) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 



375 (Panama, not of Cuv. & Val.). 

 Trachynotus rhomboides Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 



625 (Panama, young). 

 Trachynotus rhodopus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. 8. F.sh Com., 1882, 



106 (Mazatlan, not of Gill). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of Tropical America : Magdalena Baj', 

 Mazatlan, Panama. 



This species is the Pacific Coast representative of Trachynotus 

 rhomboides, from which it differs in the presence of a black axil- 




124 PROOBEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



lary spot, and slightly in form of the profile. The j^oung lack 

 this spot, and cannot readily be distinguished from the young of 

 Traehynotus rhomboides. It is therefore probable that all the 

 references made by authors lo the occurrence of T. rhomboides 

 (ovatus) on the Pacific Coast of Tropical America refer to this 

 species. A series brought b}^ Professor Gilbert from Panama 

 (now unfortunately destroyed) is said to render this view very 

 probable. We are informed by Professor Jordan that the specimens 

 brought by Professor Gilbert from Mazatlan, recorded as T, 

 rhodopus, belong to this species, of which the latter cannot be the 

 young, as was at first supposed. 



Traehynotus rhomboides. Round Pompano ; Palometa. 



Chmtodon rhomboides Bloch, Iclithyologia, ccix, about 1783 Con a draw- 

 ing by Plumier) ; Gmelin, Syst. Nat., 1788, 1259 (copied). 



Acanthinion rhoniboides Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 1803, 500 

 (copied). 



Trachinotus rhoiriboides Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 

 1831, 407 (Martinique) ; Gi^ichenot "Poiss. Ramon delaSagra, Hist. 

 Cuba, 1845, 108" (Cuba). 



Traehynotus rhoviboides Liitken, Spolia Atlantica, 1880, 602 (West In- 

 dies) ; .Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 974. 



Spinous dory Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Ph 1. Soc, 1815, PI. vi, f. 10 (no 

 dtscr'ption). 



Trachinotus fusctts Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 1831, 

 410 (Brazil). 



Trachinotus spinosus De Kay, N. Y. Fauna Fisbes, 1842, 117, PI. xix, 

 fig. 53 (New Yoik Harbor) ; Siorer, "Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 98." 



Lichia spinosus Baird, Ninth Smithsonian Rep., 1854, 22 (Beesley's 

 Point, New Jersey). 



Doliodon spinosus Girard, U. S. and Mex. Bd. Surv., 1859, 22 (St. Jo- 

 seph's Island, Texas) ; Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 

 (name only). 



Traehynotus ovatus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus,, ii, 1860, 481 (in part, 

 West Indian specimens, apparently not Oasterosteus ovatus, which is 

 the Asiatic species) ; Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, 438 ; 

 Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 332 ; Gill, Rep. U. S. Fish 

 Com., 1871-2, 803 ; Baird, Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1871-2, 825 (Wood's 

 Holl, Mass.) ; Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 112 (name only) ; 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 376 (Beaufort, N. C, 

 no description) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 339. 

 (Marquesas Keys, Fla.) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1880, 24 

 (name only) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1881, 36-39 ; Goode & 

 Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 237 (name only) ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 442. 

 Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of America : Wood's Holl, New York, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Beesley's Point, Beaufort, Marquesas Keys, Key West, St. 

 Joseph's Island, Martinique, and Brazil. 



Head 3f in length ; depth 1| ; D. VI-1, 19 ; A. Il-I, 18 ; length 

 (No. 486, I. XJ. Havana) 18 inches. 



Body broadl}-^ ovate, moderately compressed ; profile very 

 evenly convex from procumbent spine to horizontal from upper 

 edge of eye, where it descends almost vertical. The vertical 

 portion is about H times the eye ; length of snout nearly equals 

 the eye ; mouth nearly horizontal ; maxillary reaching to the 

 vertical from middle of eye, its length 21 in head ; jaws without 

 teeth in adult ; dorsal spines short and thick, not connected by 

 membrane in adult; ventrals short, their tips scarcely reaching 

 half way to anterior anal spine ; 3 in head ; caudal widely 

 forked ; lobes about 2t in length of body ; dorsal and anal fins 

 falcate ; anterior rays reaching almost to posterior end of fins ; in 

 adults, dorsal lobe 2f , anal lobe 4^, in length of body. Color 

 bluish above, silvei-y below ; lobes of dorsal black in young ; in 

 adults the fins are all bluish with lighter tips. 



The young differ from the adult as above described in the 

 following respects : The profile is scarcely convex ; snout shorter 

 and less vertical ; spines much longer and connected by membranes ; 

 lobes of vertical fins shorter ; dorsal lobe with black ; fins all much 

 paler ; jaws with bands of villiform teeth; eye larger; color much 

 paler. 



We have had no opportunity of comparing the American 

 Trachynotus rhomboides with the East Indian Trachynotus 

 ovatus with which it has been identified by Dr. Giinther. We 

 have been led to consider them as distinct by the following ob- 

 servation of Dr. Liitken: " I will only remark that the Trachy- 

 notus rhomboides of the Antilles has already its rhomboidal 

 physiognomy and the falcations of its fins strongly prolonged 

 at an age at which, in the Trachynotus ovatus of the seas of the 

 Indies, these prolongations of the fins are quite short. I am of 

 the opinion (with Mr. Gill) that these two species ought, at least 

 provisionally, to be considered as distinct." 



As the antecedent probabilities are against the identity of these 

 species in such widely separated faunre, there is less danger of 

 confusion in regarding the two as different. 



Trachynotus rhodopus. Permit. Great Pompann. 



Trachynotus goreensis Giinther. Cat. Fish, Brit. Mus., 1860, 483 

 (specimens from Caribbean Sea ; in part, not of Cuvier & Valenci- 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ennes) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 129 (West 

 Florida, Jupiter's Inlet) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. tJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 

 339 ("West Florida, Marquesas Keys) ; Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1879, 112 (name only) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1881, 36, 40 

 (Key West and Jupiter's Inlet) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 

 24 (name only) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 237 

 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 442 ; Jor- 

 dan & Gilbert, op. cit., 1882, 974. 



Trachynotus rhodopus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 85 (Cape 

 San Lucas ; young). 



Trachynotus nasutus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1863, 85 (Cape San 

 Lucas ; very young). 



Trachynotus CaroUnus, Poey, Syn. Pise. Cubensium, 1808, 371 (Cuba) ; 

 Poey, Eilumeratio Pise. Cubensium, 1875, 86. 



Habitat. — Both coasts of Tropical America : West Florida, 

 Jupiter's Inlet, Marquesas Keys, Key West, Cuba, Caribbean 

 Sea, Cape San Lucas. 



Head 3 in length ; depth 2f : D. VI-I, 19 ; A. II-I, U ; length 

 of specimen described (Key West), 2^ inches. 



Body oblong, elliptical, moderately compressed ; profile nearly 

 straight from procumbent spine to nostril, where it descends 

 nearly vertical, forming an angle ; vertical portion from angle to 

 snout nearly equals the eye ; maxillary reaches slightly behind 

 vertical from middle of eye, its length 2f in head ; jaws with bands 

 of villiform teeth (these disappearing with age) ; ventrals reaching 

 I distance to vent, their length 2 in head ; tips of pectorals reach- 

 ing slightly past tips of ventrals ; dorsal spines connected by a 

 membrane, which is only characteristic of the young. Dorsal 

 and anal fins falcate, their anterior soft rays less elevated than in 

 Trachynotus rhomboides, but extending beyond middle of fins 

 when depressed. Length in the young 4 in length of bod}' ; caudal 

 forked, lobes about 3 in bc*ly ; lateral line nearly straight, slightly 

 curved upwards above the pectorals ; color bluish silvery above, 

 silvery below; dorsal, caudal and anal lobes blackish; no cross- 

 bars. 



This species grows to a much larger size than any other of the 

 genus found in our waters ; specimens of 2 to 3 feet in length 

 being not uncommon in Florida and Cuba. It has been identified 

 with the Trachynotus goreenais of Cuvier & Valenciennes, by 

 most American autliors, this being a species from the West Coast 

 of Africa. The basis of this identification appears to be insuf- 

 ficient. According to Cuvier & Valenciennes this Trachynotus 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12t 



goreensis is a deeper flsh than ours is at any age. Its outline and 

 coloration are also different. 



Trachynotus maxillosus Cuvier & Valenciennes, also from 

 Africa, comes much nearer our fish, but this differs too much to 

 be safely identified with it. 



On the other hand, our young specimens col'respond exactly to 

 the two descriptions of little Trachynoti taken by Xantus at Cape 

 San Lucas, published by Professor Gill; the larger one (2^^ inches 

 in length) corresponds entirely to the T. rhodopus, the smaller 

 one (IyV inches in length) to T. nasutus. There is, however, no 

 other record of the occurrence of our species in the Pacific. 



The drawings and notes made by Professor Poey, of the species 

 called by him T. carolinus, have been examined by Professor 

 Jordan. They belong to T. rhodopus. T. carolinus is therefore 

 as yet not known from Cuba. 



Trachynotus carolinus. 



Gasterosteus caroUntis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. 13, 1766, 490 (Carolina). 



Doliodon carolinus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 168; 

 Girard, U. S. & Mex. Bd. Surv., 1839, 23, PI. xi, fig. 4 (St. Joseph's 

 Island, Texas) ; Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 (name 

 only). 



Trachynotus cafoUnus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 438 ; 

 Gill, op. cit., 1863, 84 (Cape San Lucas) ; Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1863, 333 (name only) ; Gill, Kep. U. S. Fish Com., 1871-8, 

 803 (name only) ; Baird, Rep. U: S. Fish Com., 1871-3, 835 (Wood's 

 Holl) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 377 (Beau^ 

 fort, N. C, no description) ; Godde & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1879, 139 (Pensacola, Fla;) ; Gddde & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1879, 113 (name only) ; Bean, Proc; U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 90 

 (Wood's Holl, New York and Newport, R. I.) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Com., 1881, 36 ; Goode & Bean^ Pro?. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 

 337 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 596 (Charleston, 

 S. C, no description) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1883, 359 (Cape San Lucas) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1883, 370 (Pensacola, Fla., no description) ; Goode, Bull. 21, 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 34 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. 

 N. A., 1883, 443 ; Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1884, 45 (Eg- 

 mont Key;. 



TracMnotus cupreus Cuvier & Valencieniies, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 

 1831, 414 (Martinique). 



TracMnotus argenteus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 1831, 

 413 (Martinique) ; Storer, Syn. Fishes N. A., 1846, 98. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Trachynotus argenteus Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 



(name only). 

 Trachynotus pampanus Ouv. & Val., op. cit. (Charleston, S. C.) ; Storer, 



Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 99. 

 Trachynotus pampanus Giinther, Cat. Fi.sh. Brit. Mus., ii, 1860, 484 



(Jamaica) ; Gill, Proc, Acad. Kat. Sci. Phila., 1862, 262 (Cape San 



Lucas). 



Bothrolmmus pampanus Holbrook, Ich. S. Cav., 1860 (Charleston) ; 



Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861, 37 (name only). 

 IdcMa Carolina DeKay, N. Y. Fauna, iv, 1842, 114, PI. x, f. 3 (Sandy 



Hook) ; Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 96 ; Baird, Ninth Rep, 



Smith. Inst., 1854, 21 (Beesley's Point, N. J.). 



Habitat. — Atlantic (and Pacific) Coasts of America: Wood's 

 Holl, Newport, Sandy Hook, Beesley's Point, Beaufort, Charles- 

 ton, Pensacola, St. Joseph's Island, Egmont Key, Key West, Mar- 

 tinique and Cape San Lucas. 



Head 4 in length ; depth 2f ; D. YI-I, 25 ; A. II-I, 22. Length 

 (No. 434, L U., Key West) 15i inches. 



Body oblong, comparatively robust ; greatest thickness 3 in 

 greatest depth. Snout from mouth to horizontal from upper 

 edge of eye nearly vertical, somewhat bluntly rounded ; profile 

 from upper edge of snout to procumbent spine evenly convex. 

 Mouth nearly horizontal, maxillary reaching to vertical from 

 middle of eye, its length 2| in head ; eye 4^ in head, about as 

 long as snout. Jaws without teeth in adult. Ventrals reach | 

 distance to vent, about 2 in pectorals, 2^ in liead. Dorsal and 

 anal fins falcate ; anterior rays nearly reach middle of fins when 

 depressed; dorsal lobe 4^; anal 5| in length of body. Color 

 bluish above, silvery or slightly golden below ; pectorals and 

 anal light orange shaded with bluish ; caudal and upper portion 

 of caudal peduncle with bluish reflections'. 



On our South Atlantic and Gulf Coasts this is by far the most 

 abundant species of the genus, and it is the one most esteemed 

 as food. Its distribution in the West Indies is little known, the 

 only positive record from points south of Kej^ West being that 

 of " Trachynotus cupreus " from Martinique. The only specimens 

 known from the West Coast are those taken by Xantus at Cape 

 San Lucas. While we have no good reason to doubt that the 

 specimens now in the National Museum really came from Xantus, 

 it is strange that no later collectors in Lower California and 

 Sinaloa have found either this species or Trachynotus rhodopus. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Trachynotus cayennensis. 



Trachinotus cayennensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, H;st. Nat. Poiss., viii, 

 1831, 417 (Cayenne) ; Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit, Mus., ii, 1860, 485 

 (copied). 



? Trachinotus paitensis Cuv. & Val., op. cit., viii, 1831, 438 (Peru). 



Nothing is known of this species except what is contained in 

 the two meagre descriptions noticed above. No difference is 

 indicated by which the Pacific Coast fish (paitensis) is to be 

 known from the Atlantic one. Both appear to diflfer from T. 

 carolinus in the still longer vertical fins. • 



Trachynotas marginatus. 



Trachinotus marginatus Cuvier & Valefiiciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 

 1831, 411 (Montevideo), 



This species appears to be allied to Trachynotus rhodopus and 

 T. goreensis, but the description is too brief to give much idea of 

 its relations. 



Becapitulation, 



We have in this paper admitted eight species of Trachynotus, 

 as found in American waters. Some doubt is attached to the 

 nomenclature of some of them. We give in the following list a 

 brief indication of the questions remaining to be solved in each 

 case : — 



Genus TBACHTNOTUS Lac^pfede. 



1. T. glaucus Bloch. 



2. T. fasciatus Gill. 



3. T. kennedyi Steindachner (possibly to be considered as a geographical variety of 



T. rhomhoides or of T. ovatus). 



4. T. rhomboides Bloch (possibly identical with the East Indian T. ovatus Linnaeus ; 



if so, to take the latter name). 



5. T rhodopns Gill, Very impt-obably identical with T. g'treentis Cuv. & Val.; pos- 



sibly identical with 7". maxillosuB Cuv. & Val., both of them being African 

 species of prior date. Possibly not really found in the Pacific). 



6. T. carolinus Linnseus (possibly not occurring in the West Indies or in the 



Pacific). 



7. T. cayennensis Cuv. &, Val. (imperfectly described; possibly the Pacific form of 



T. paitensis is distinct). 



8. T. marginatus Cuv. & Val. (imperfectly described and doubtful). 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



A EEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS SYNODTJS. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK. 



I have attempted in this paper to give a review of the American 

 species of Synodus^ with a detailed description of certain species 

 imperfectly described elsewhere. The paper is based on speci- 

 mens collected by Professor Jordan at Cedar Kej-s and Kej^ West, 

 Florida, and Havana, Cuba, belonging to the United States 

 National Museum and the Museum of the Indiana University. 

 All the Atlantic species here recognized, except Synodus saurus, 

 are contained in this collection. 



I am very much indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his 

 library and for other aids. 



Analysis of American Species of Synodus. 



a. Snout short, obtuse, S^ in length of premaxillary ; head sorne-» 

 what compressed, much deeper than broad ; anal fin com* 

 paratively long, its rays about 14 ; head 31 in length ; origin 

 of dorsal midway between snout and adipose fin ; scales 

 4-55-6 ( Trachinocephalus Gill). myops. 1. 



aa. Snout long, pointed, about 2^ in premaxillar} ; head depressed , 

 little if any deeper than broad ; anal comparatively short, 

 rays 10 to 12 ; head 4 to 4§ in length (Syiiodus). 

 b. Scales large, 43 to 50 in lateral line; origin of dorsal midway 

 between tip of snout and adipose fin ; lateral line with a 

 blunt keel posteriorly, 

 c. First and last rays of dorsal coterminous when the fin is 

 depressed ; black blotch of scapula very small or obso- 

 lete ; D. I-IO ; A. I--11 to 12 ; scales 4-45-5. 



intermedius. 2, 



cc. Tips of first dorsal rays not reaching last when the fin is 



depressed ; scapula with a large black blotch ; D. I-ll 



to 12 ; i^. I-IO to 11 ; scales 4-48-6. anolis. 3. 



hb. Scales small, 55 to 70 in lateral line. 



d. Dorsal fin much higher than long ; tips of first rays 

 extending beyond tips of last when the fin is 

 depressed ; length of fin 1 1 in length of longest ray, 

 and 2^ in head; teeth large; D. 1-9; A. I-ll; 

 scales 4-57-6. spixianus. 4. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



dd. Dorsal fin slightly higher than long ; tips of first rays 

 not extending beyond tips of last when the fin is 

 depressed ; teeth small, 

 e. Snout broader than long, the jaws subeqiial ; tail with 

 a slight keel ; scales 3|-60-6. saurus. 5. 



ee. Snout longer than broad, the lower jaw included ; 

 tail without keel. 

 /. Four rows of scales between lateral line and adipose 

 fin (6 in an oblique row); origin of dorsal fin 

 nearer adipose fin than tip of snout ; scales on 

 cheeks in about 4 to 7 rows, on opercles in 4 to 

 6 rows. 



g. Head very small, 4f in length ; first rays of dorsal 

 coterminous with last ray when the fin is 

 depressed ; cheeks with about 4 rows of large 

 scales, opercles with about 4 ; ventrals 1| in 

 head ; pectoral 2 in head ; D. I-IO ; A. 1-12 ; 

 scales 6-61-6. scituliceps. 6. 



gg. Head 4 in length ; tips of first rays of dorsal not 

 reaching tips of last when the fin is depressed ; 

 scales on cheeks in about T rows, on opercles 

 in about 6 rows ; ventrals 2^ in head ; D. I-IO 

 to 11 ; A. I-IO to 11 ; scales 4-64-6. 



foetens. 7. 



ff. Six rows of scales between adipose fin and lateral 



line ; cheeks with about 9 rows of scales, opercles 



with about 8 rows; D. I-IO; A. I-ll; scales 



13-66-16. lucioceps. 8. 



Synodus myops. 



Salmo myops Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 431 (St. 



Helena). 

 iSawMS m2/<?psCuv!er& Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xxii, 1849, 485 



(South Caiolina, Martinique, Bahia, St. Helena) ; Giinther, Cat. 



Fish. Brit. Mu-*., v, 1864, 398 (Cuba, Jamaica) ; Jordan & Gilbert, 



Syn. F:sh. N. A., 1882, 281. 

 TracMnoceplialus myops Poey, Syn. Pisc. Cub., 1868, 415 (Cuba). 

 Salmo fcetens Bloch., Ichthyologia, about 1790, taf. 384, fig. 2 ; Bloch & 



Scluie'der, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 404 (not Linnaeus). 

 Osmenis lemniscatus Lacepede, Hi&t. Nat. Poiss., v, 1803, 236 (on a 



drawing by Pluniier). 




132 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Saurns truncatus Agassiz, Spix, Pise. Bras., 1829, 82, tab. 45 (Brazil). 

 Saurus hrevirostris Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 305 (Cuba). 

 Trac7dnocephalus hrevirostris Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 415 (Cuba) ; 

 ''anal rays 10 ;" Poey, Enum., 1875, 144. 



Habitat. — Tropical Atlantic; Cuba; Jamaica; Martinique; 

 Bahia ; St. Helena ; Brazil and South Carolina. 



Head 3f in length of body ; depth 5^ ; D. I-IO ; A. 1-14 ; scales 

 4_55_.6 (transverse series counted vertically from dorsal fin to 

 vent respectively). 



Body little compressed; snout short, obtuse,3Mnpremaxillary ; 

 mouth large, premaxillary If in head ; interorbital area concave, 

 about 6^ in head, upper surface of head rugose. Dorsal slightly 

 higher than long, its length H in head ; origin of dorsal fin mid- 

 Way between tip of snout and adipose fin, slightly behind last 

 fays of ventrals. Anal fin long, its base nearly equal to head ; 

 pectorals reaching root of ventrals, 2 in head ; tips of ventrals 

 almost reaching vent, ventrals 4^ in length of body ; caudal 

 forked ; teeth comparatively small ; lower jaw slightly projecting. 

 Color grayish, mottled with darker above ; body with eleven 

 cross-bars ; a black blotch on scapula ; a black streak extending 

 from eyes around s^^mphysis, forming a quadrated blotch on the 

 side of each jaw, and one on the median line of each jaw ; dorsal 

 fin faintly barred ; pectorals, ventrals and anal plain. 



This description is taken from a very young specimen, twenty 

 three inches in length, collected by Professor Jordan in Havana. 

 In the above synonymy we have omitted references from the 

 Pacific Ocean, thinking it not impossible that the Asiatic species 

 (limbatus) is a species distinct from S. myops. Trachinocephalus 

 hrevirostris Poey, known only from a drawing made in 185T, 

 seems to differ only in the presence of ten .instead of fifteen anal 

 rays. This is probably an error, or perhaps an accidental muti- 

 lation. I have little doubt that it is a synonym of S. myops. 



Synodus intermedius. 



? ? ? Synodus Gronov., Mus. Ichth., ii, 1765, No. 151, tab. 7, fig. 1. 



? ? ? Esox synodus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., i, 1766, 516 (America). 



? ? ? Synodus synodus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichtliyol., 1801, 



396. 

 ? Saurus synodus Cuv. & Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., xxii, 1849 (jMar- 



tinique ; Guadeloupe ; Bahia ; St. Helena). 

 ? ? ? Synodus fasciatus Lacepede, v, 1804, 321. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Saurus intermedius Agassiz, "Spix, Pise. Brazil, 1829, 81, tab. 44 



(Brazil)." 

 Synodus intermedius Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 14S (Cuba, not of 



Synopsis). 



Habitat. — Cuba ; Brazil. 



Head 4 in length of body; depth 6|; D. I-IO; A. I -10; scales 4- 

 44-4 (transverse series counted from dorsal.and vent respectively). 



Body terete, rather robust ; snout comparatively long and 

 pointed, about 3| in head; mouth large; premaxillar}'' about 1| 

 in head ; intei-orbital area concave, about 6^ in head ; supra- 

 orbital ridge present, terminating anteriorly before the nostrils. 



Origin of dorsal fin midway between tip of snout and adipose 

 fin ; anterior rays of dorsal coterminous with posterior ones when 

 the fin is deflexed ; fin higher than long, its length about 2 in 

 head, lower jaw slightly projecting; teeth moderate, anterior 

 palatine teeth largest, becoming smaller posteriorly. 



Lateral line with a blunt keel posteriori}^, tips of ventrals reach- 

 ing I distance to vent, their length about 1^ in head ; tips of 

 pectorals extending to roots of ventrals, If in head ; caudal forked, 

 lobes equal, scales large. Color yellowish above, lighter below, 

 scales above lateral line punctulate with dark ; breast flesh-colored ; 

 sides with a row of irregular black markings ; scapula occasion- 

 ally with a small black spot, faintly barred with black ; caudal 

 not barred, dusky ; tips of middle rays darkest ; other fins plain. 



This description is taken from several specimens, the largest 5 

 inches in length, collected by Professor Jordan at Havana. 



This is evidently the Synodus intermedius of Poey's Enumer- 

 atio. I have been unable to examine the figure of Agassiz and 

 Spix, but from the account given of it by Poey, we infer that it is 

 taken from specimens of the present species rather than of S. 

 cuhanus. According to Poey, the species figured by Spix lacks 

 the scapular spot. 



Synodus anolis. 



^ Saurus anolis Cuvier & Valeneiennes, Hist. Nat, Poiss., xxii, 1849, 

 438 (Babia ; Martinique). 



1 Since tbe above was in type tlie following notes have been received by 

 Prof. Jordan from Dr. H. E. Sauvage, of the jVIuseum of Paris : ^'■Saurus 

 anolis C. & V. Bahia. Type. Length of body 245 m. Lateral line 

 with 54 scales ; 10 in a transverse series. A well-marked black spot on 

 the scapular part of the gill-openings." There seems to be no doubt of the 

 identity of anolis and cuhanus. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEj^Y OF [1884. 



Saurus intermedius Griinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., v, 1864, 396 (Ja- 

 maica ; Demarara ; Bahia ; not of Agassiz). 



Synodus intermedius Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 414 (Cuba) ; Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 889 ; Goods & Bean, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1882, 239 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1882, 249 (Pensacola, Fla.). 



Synodus cubanus Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 143 (Cuba). 



Habitat. — Atlantic shores of Tropical America ; Pensacola ; 

 Key West ; Cuba ; Jamaica ; Martinique ; Demarara and Bahia. 



The description of Saurus anolis is so insufficient, that no 

 certain identification can he made. 



This species has been sufficiently described by Jordan & 

 Gilbert (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 249). The large specimens 

 from Key West, examined by me, agree well with this account. 



Synodus spixianus. 



Saurus spixianus Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 304 (Cuba). 

 Synodus spixianus Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuba, 1868, 413 (Cuba) ; Poey, 

 Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 397 (Cuba). 



Habitat. — Cuba ; Key West. 



Head 4^ in length of body ; D. 1-9 ; A. I-ll ; scales 4-5 "7-6 

 (transverse series counted from dorsal and vent respectively). 



Body oblong, nearly terete ; snout compai'atively long and 

 pointed, 3^ in head and about 2^ in premaxillary. Interorbital 

 area concave, 6 in head. Eye 5 in head. Supraorbital striate. 

 Branchiostegals 16. Origin of dorsal fin nearer adipose fin than 

 tip of snout by length of dorsal fin ; tips of anterior rays reaching 

 beyond tips of posterior ones when the fin is deflexed ; the fin is 

 therefore much higher than long. Length of fin 1 1 in length of 

 longest ray and 2^ in head. Yentrals moderate, reaching about 

 I distance to vent, 1^ in head. Tips of pectorals not reaching to 

 roots of ventrals, about 2 in head. Adipose fin situated over 

 middle of anal. Caudal forked, its lobes equal. Teeth larger than 

 in the other species. Palatine teeth becoming smaller posteriorly. 

 Color light sandy gray, much mottled above with darker olive. 

 Branchiostegals A'ery pale, 5rellowish. Ventrals and anal pale and 

 plain, lower lobe of caudal dusky, neither barred. Dorsal faintly 

 barred with darker olive. 



Tliis description taken from one specimen 8j inches long, col- 

 lected by Professor Jordan in Havana. Numerous smaller ones 

 from Key West have also beeu exanained. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Synodus sanius. 



Osmerus radiis pinnce ani undedm Artccli, Descript. Spec. Pise, 1738, 



23 (Mediterranean). 

 Salmo saurus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., i, ed. 12, 1766, 511 (Europe). 

 Saurus lacerta Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. N^it. Poiss., xxii, 1849, 463 



(Europe, not of Risso). 

 Synodus lacerta Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1876, 68 (Bermudas). 

 Saurus griseus Lowe, Trans. Zool. Soc, ii, 1841, 188 (Madeiia) ; 



Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., v, 1864, 394 (Madeira, St. Vincent, 



Naples, MediteFranean). 



I have not seen this species. Professor Goode (Bull. U. S. Nat, 

 Mus., 18T6, 68) makes the following reference to its occurrence 

 in the Bermudas : — 



"A specimen seventeen inches long was taken oft' the ' ducking- 

 stool ' in March, by a line fisherman. Its occurrence in this part 

 of the Atlantic is very novel, but it agrees closely with a specimen 

 of Saurus griseus sent to the United States National Museum by 

 Dr. Giinther. Its color was dusky gray above, yellow below. Its 



formulse are as follows: Branchiostegals, 16-17 (on opposite 



31 



sides); D, 12: A. 12 ; lateral line, 60; transverse line, -r-." 



6 



Synodus scituliceps. 



Synodus 'scituliceps Jordan »& Gilbert, Proc, U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 344 

 (Mazatlan) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 354 

 (Cape San Lucas) ; Jordan & Gilbtrr, Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., 

 1882, 106 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbtrt, Bull. U. S. F sh. Com., 

 1882, 109 (Panama,. 



Saurus fcetens GiintliLr, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus,, 1864, 396 (in part; speci- 

 men from Panama). 



Habitat. — Mazatlan, Panama, 



Synodus fcetens. 



Salmo fmtens L'nnseus, Syst, Nat., i, ed. 12, 1766, 513 (Carolina), 

 Saurus fastens Cuvier «& Vakncitnnes, Hist, Nat. Pofes., xxii, 1849, 471 

 (Martinique, St. DoniinjiO, Chaileston, S. C; Bahia, Rio Janeiro) ; 

 Holbrook, Ichth, S. C, 1860, 187. 

 Synodus foitens Gill, Rept. U, S, Fish. Com., 1871-2, 810 (name only) ; 

 Joidan & Gilbeit, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 384 (Beaufort, N. C, 

 no description) ; Goode, Pioc. U, S, Nat, Mus,, 1879, 119 fname 

 only) ; Goode & Bean, Prcc. U, S, Nat, Mus , 1879, 342 (Key West) ; 

 Bean, Proc, U. S, Nat, Mus., 1880, 105 (B.auforr, N, C, ; no descrp- 

 tion) ; Goode & Bean, Proc, U. S, Nat, Mus,, 1882, 239 (Gulf of 

 Mexico) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U, S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 585 (Charles- 

 ton, S. C.) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish, N. A., 1882, 280. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



? Coregonus ruber Lacepede, v, 1804, 263 (on a drawing by Plumier). 

 ? Saurus longirostris Agassiz, "Si)ix, Pise, Bras., tab. 43, 1839" 

 (Brazil). 



Habitat. — Atlantic shores of America : Beaufort, Charleston, 

 Cedar Keys, Key West, Martinique, St. Domingo, Rio Janeiro. 



This is the most common species of the genus on the United 

 States Coast. It is well described by Jordan &, Gilbert, Syn. 

 Fish N. A., 1882, 280. 



Synodus luoioceps 



Saurus lucioceps Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1855, 66 (San 

 Francisco) ; Giintlier, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., v, 1864, 397 (copied). 



Synodus lucioceps Jordan & Gilbert., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 457 

 (San Francisco, Monterey Bay, Santa Barbara) ; Jordan & Jouy, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 13 (San Francisco, Monterey, Santa 

 Barbara) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 42 ; Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. A., 1882, 281. 



Sauries fmtens Lockington, Ann. Mag. Nat, Hist., about 1878 (errone- 

 ously identified with the Atlantic species). 



Habitat. — West Coast of U. S. : San Francisco, Monterey, Santa 

 Barbara. 



This species resembles Synodus f ceteris^ but has much smaller 

 scales. This is shown especially when the number in vertical 

 series is counted. The only accurate description is that of Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 281, 




PROC, A, N, S, PHILA, \m. 



PL I. 



r-^- 



.>^' 



•/" 



N. 



/ 



V 



/ 



V 









3 ^^ 



^ 





/\. 



. _.^-,--^N 







5 Gf mflite.del. 



GENUS APSILUS, 





1884.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 137 



May 6. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



A Bare Human Tapeworm. — Dr. Leidy directed attention to 

 some little tapeworms, which had recently been submitted to his 

 examination by Prof. William Pepper. They were expelled, by 

 the use of santonin, from a child of three years. The specimens, 

 consisting of a dozen fragments, appear to be portions of three 

 worms, which reached a length of from twelve to fifteen inches, 

 or more. Unfortunately the head is lost. The joints or proglot- 

 tides are more than several times the breadth of the length. In 

 a specimen of thirteen inches, comprising nearly a complete 

 worm, the joints of the anterior attenuated extremity are about 

 the one-fifth of a millimetre long by nearly two-thirds of a milli- 

 metre wide, while the posterior joints are half a millimetre long 

 and two and a quarter milli-iietres wide. Ripe joints at the 

 posterior part of the body are pale brown, the color being due to 

 the eggs. These occupy a simple uterus defined by the walls of 

 the joints, and not divided into pouches diverging laterally from 

 a main stem as is usual in most taeniae. A singular feature of 

 the worm is the interruption of the series of ripe joints, here and 

 there, by one or more completely sterile ones. The generative 

 apertures open in the usual wa}^ on the lateral margin of one 

 side. The mature eggs are spherical, measure 0"072 mm. 

 diameter, and contain, fully developed, six hooked embryos. 



While differing greatly from the ordinary tapeworms infesting 

 man, they approximate nearlj^ the description of Tsenise fiavo- 

 punctata, and probably pertain to this species. This has been 

 but once previously observed, and was described in 1858 bv Dr. 

 Weinland (An Essay on Tapeworms of Man^, from specimens in 

 the Museum of the Medical Improvement Society of Boston. 

 These were also discharged by a child. The worm was estimated 

 to be from eight to twelve inches. The joints were marked by a 

 yellow spot, from which the species was named. The eggs 

 measure from 0-054 to 0*06 mm. 



Our specimens indicate a worm almost the same size as the T. 

 Jlavopunctata^ but the joints are shorter and wider, and exhibit 

 no yellow spot, and the eggs are larger. In other characters the 

 worms sufficiently accord to render it probable that they may 

 pertain to the same species. It is probable that the worm is 

 more common than would be su|)posed from the instances of its 

 observation, and has perhaps escaped notice from its small size, 

 and from the general ignorance of the distinction, not only of 

 this, but of the ordinary species of tapeworms. 



A more complete account of the subject of this communication 

 will, shortly appear in the American Journal of Medical Sciences. 

 10 




138 proceedings of the academy of [1884. 



May 13. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



How Lycosa fabricates her Round Cocoon. — Dr. H. C. McCooK. 

 said that while walking in the suburbs of Philadelphia lately, he 

 found under a stone a female Lycosa (probably L. riparia 

 Hentz), which he placed in a jar partly filled with dry earth. 

 For two days the spider remained on the surface of the soil, 

 nearly inactive. The earth was then moistened, whereupon (May 

 2) she immediately began to dig, continuing until she had made 

 a cavity about one inch in depth and height. The top was then 

 carefully covered over with a tolerably closely woven sheet of 

 white spinning work, so that the spider was entirely shut in. 

 This cavity was made against the glass side of the jar, and the 

 movements of the inmate were thus exposed to view. Shortly 

 after the cave was covered, the spider was seen working upon a 

 circular cushion of beautiful white silk, about three-fourths of an 

 inch in diameter, which was spun upwards in a nearly perpen- 

 dicular position against the earthen wall of the cave. The 

 cushion looked so much like the cocoon of the common tube- 

 weaver, Agalena ntevia, and the whole operations of the Lycosa 

 were so like those of that species when cocooning, that the 

 speaker was momentarily possessed with the thought that he had 

 mistaken the creature's identity altogether, and again examined 

 her carefully, only to be assured that she was indeed a Lycosa. 

 After an absence of half an hour. Dr. McCook returned to find 

 that in the interval the spider had oviposited against the central 

 part of the silken cushion and was then engaged in enclosing the 

 hemispherical egg-mass with a silken envelope. The mode of 

 spinning was as follows : the feet clasped the circumference of 

 the cushion, and the body of the animal was slowly revolved ; the 

 abdomen — now greatly reduced in size by the extrusion of the 

 eggs — was lifted up, thus drawing out short loops of silk from 

 the expanded spinnerets, which, when the abdomen was dropped 

 again, contracted and left a flossy curl of silk at the point of 

 attachment. The abdomen was also swayed back and forwards, 

 the filaments from the spinnerets following the motion as the 

 spider turned, and thus an even thickness of silk was laid upon 

 the eggs. The same behavior marked the spinning of the 

 silken button or cushion, in the middle of which the eggs had 

 been deposited. 



At this stage, Dr. McCook left for an evening engagement, with 

 his ideas as to the cocooning habits of Lycosa very much con- 

 fused, indeed, by an observation so opposed to the universal 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



experience. Returning to his desk in an hour and a half, he was 

 once more assured by the sight of a round silken ball dangling 

 from the apex of the spider's abdomen, held fast by short threads 

 to the spinnerets. The cushion, however, had disappeared. 



The mystery (as it had seemed to him) was solved : the Lycosa 

 after having placed her eggs in the centre of the silken cushion, 

 and covered them over, had gathered up the edges and so united 

 them and rolled them as to make the normal globular cocoon of 

 her genus, which she at once tucked under her abdomen in the 

 usual way. This v/as a most interesting observation, and Dr. 

 McCook thought had not before been made ; at least Lycosa's 

 manner of fabricating a cocoon had been heretofore unknown to 

 him ; and by reason of her subterranean habit the opportunity to 

 observe it was rare. He had often wondered how the round egg- 

 ball was put together, and the mechanical ingenuity and simplicity 

 of the method were now apparent. The period consumed in the 

 whole act of cocooning was less than four hours ; the act of ovi- 

 positing took less than half an hour. Shortly after the egg-sac 

 was finished, the mother cut her way out of the silken cover. She 

 had evidently thus secluded herself for the purpose of spinning 

 her cocoon. While feeding the spider some flies, the cave was 

 accidentally filled up, and no effort had been made to dig another, 

 although it is the custom of this genus, in natural environment, 

 to remain pretty closely within such a habitation while carrying 

 the cocoon. 



One month after the above date (June 4), the spider was 

 found with the young hatched, and massed upon her body from 

 the caput to the apex of the abdomen. The empty egg-sac still 

 clung to the spinnerets, and the younglings were grouped over 

 the upper part of the same. The abdomens of the little spiders 

 were of a light yellow color, the legs a greenish brown or slate- 

 color, and the whole brood were tightly compacted upon and 

 around each other, the lower layers apparently holding on to the 

 mother's body, and the upper upon those beneath. Twenty-four 

 hours thereafter, the cocoon-case was dropped, and the spiderlings 

 clung to the mother alone. An examination of the cocoon showed 

 that the young had escaped through the thin seam or joint 

 formed by the union of the egg-cover with the circular cushion, 

 when the latter was pulled up at the circumference into globular 

 shape. There was no flossy wadding within — as is common with 

 orb-weaving spiders, for example — nothing but the pinkish shells 

 of the escaped young. On June 11, about one hundred of the 

 spiderlings had abandoned the maternal perch, and were dispersed 

 over the inner surface of the jar, and upon a series of lines 

 stretching from side to side. About half as many more remained 

 upon the mother's back; but by the 13th, all had dismounted. 

 Meantime, they had increased in size at least one-half, apparently 

 without food. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Note on the Amphibious Habit of Lycosa. — Dr. McCooK 

 alluded to another interesting fact in the life-history of Lycosa, 

 brought to his attention by Mr. Alan Gentry, This gentle- 

 man, during the winter, visited a pond in the vicinity of Phila- 

 delphia (Germantown) which was frozen over. He cut a slab 

 from the ice about eight to ten feet from the bank, and was sur- 

 prised to see several spiders running about in the water. They 

 were passing from point to point by silken lines stretched under- 

 neath the surface between certain water-plants. Several were 

 captured, but unfortunatelj'^the specimens were not preserved. Mr. 

 Thomas G. Gentr}'^, who saw them, says that they were Lycosids, 

 and from his description of the eyes he is evidently correct. It 

 is a remarkable and novel fact to find these creatures thus living 

 in full health and activity in mid-winter within the waters of a 

 frozen pond, and so far from the bank in which the burrows of 

 their congeners are so common]}^ found. It has been believed, 

 heretofore, and doubtless it is generally true, that the Lycosids 

 winter in deep burrows in the ground, sealed up tightly to main- 

 tain a higher temperature. But the above observation opens up 

 a new and very strange chapter in the winter behavior of these 

 spiders, as well as in the amphibious nature of their habits. 



Pentastomum proboscideum. — Prof. Leidy exhibited specimens 

 of this parasite, presented to him by Mr. Norman Spang, of Etna, 

 Pa., who recently obtained them in Florida, from the lung of a 

 large rattlesnake, Crotalus adamanteus.. They are cylindrical 

 incurved, annulated, largest and rovmded at the head, tapering 

 behind, and becoming again larger and rounded at the end ; 

 and terminating ventrally in a short conical point. There are 

 six of them, with the following measurements : — 9 lines long by 

 1^ lines at the head; 13 lines by 1^ lines; 24 by 2h', 28 by 2i; 

 30 by 3, and 31 by 3. The species was first found by Humboldt 

 in Crotalus horridus. It is common in the Boa constrictor, in 

 which Professor Leidy had also observed it several times. It has 

 likewise been found in a number of other serpents. Other species 

 occur in diflferent mammals, including man, reptiles and fishes. 

 These singular parasites are regarded as the most degraded form 

 of arachnida, in the mature stage being reduced to a worm-like, 

 limbless body. 



May 20. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



The Nature of a Fasciated Branch. — At the meeting of the 

 Botanical Section on the 12th, Mr. Thomas Meehan called atten- 

 tion to a paper contributed by him to the Proceedings of the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



American Association for the Advancement of Science^ p. 27 Y, 

 vol. xix, 1870, in which, contrary to the accepted hypothesis that 

 a fasciated branch was due to " over-luxuriance," or a high con- 

 dition of vitality, he showed that the result was due to a degra- 

 dation of vital power. A number of phenomena conceded to 

 result from low vital conditions, were shown to be inseparably 

 connected with fasciation, the essential feature of which is the 

 production of an extraordinary number of buds, with a corre- 

 sponding suppression of the normal internodal spaces. 



This is precisely the condition of a flowering branch ; and all 

 its attendant phenomena find their analogue in a fasciated stem. 

 Taking a composite flower in illustration — a sunflower, for 

 instance — we find on the receptacle a coil of many hundred florets, 

 each floret with a chafl"y scale at the base. Each of these florets 

 in morpholog}^ represents a branch, and the scale a leaf or bract, 

 from the axil of which the branch would have sprung. If we 

 imagine the head uncoiled, and everything in a normal vege- 

 tative condition, as distinct from the condition of inflorescence, 

 we might have a sunflower plant a hundred feet high or more. 

 But with the approach to the flowering stage we have a suppres- 

 sion of vegetative development, with a highly accelerated develop- 

 ment of buds, out of which are morphologized the floral parts. 



The receptacle on which the involucral scales and other parts 

 of inflorescence in a compound flower, had also its analogue in 

 the thickened stems which bore the buds in a fasciated branch. 



The phenomena which indicated low vital power in the fasciated 

 branch, were all manifested in a flower. Taking the test of vital 

 power as the ability to retain life under equal circumstances, we 

 find the leaves on a fasciated branch dying before those on the 

 rest of the tree. On the balsam fir, an evergreen, the leaves are 

 wholly deciduous ; or a deciduous ally, the larch, the leaves mature 

 before the others. On other trees we find always the leaves 

 enduring longer than those on the fasciated. We sa}' the leaves 

 on the latter have a lower vital power. In severe winters the 

 branches in the fasciation wholly die, in many cases, while those 

 on other portions of the tree survive, and again we say, because 

 they have a lower vital power. Precisely^ the same circumstances 

 attend inflorescence. The leaves in their procession from a 

 normal condition to petals lose this evidence of vitality in pro- 

 portion to the degree of transformation. The petal dies before 

 the sepal, the sepal before the bract, and the bract before the 

 leaves, in the general order of anthesia, in a compound flower, 

 though there are cases where, secondary causes coming into play, 

 this rule would be reversed, but, in a general way, the soundness 

 of the point would not be disputed. 



From all these facts in analog}- it might be said in addition to 

 the points brought out in the paper of 1870, above cited, that 

 a fasciated branch is an imperfect and precocious attempt to enter 

 on the flowering or reproductive stage. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



On Rapid Changes in the History of Species. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan exhibited flowers of the remarkable Halesia noted at page 

 32, and remarked on the wide divergence reached without any 

 intervening modifications from the original, and observed that it 

 was another illustration of what he thought must now be gener- 

 ally accepted, that the maxim of Ray " Natura non facit 

 saltum " itself needed modification. He had called attention to 

 this particular departure, among others, in a paper before the 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science., in 1874 ;^ 

 what he desired to do now was to emphasize a few of the points 

 brought out prominently in that paper, that " Variations in 

 species, as in morphological changes in individuals, are b}- no 

 means by gradual modifications ; that suddenly formed and 

 marked variations perpetuate themselves from seeds, and behave 

 in all respects as acknowledged species ; and that variations of 

 similar characters would appear at times in widely separated 

 localities." 



In addition to the illustrations given in that paper, a remark- 

 able one was aflbrded by the Richardia sethiopica^ the common 

 " calla " of gardens, the present season. Some four inches below 

 the perfect flower a mere spathe was developed, partially green, 

 but mostly white, as usual, but in this case we do not call it a 

 spathe, but a huge bract. In other words, the usually naked 

 flower-scape of the Richardia had borne a bract. Flowers with 

 a pair of more or less imperfect spathes were not uncommon in 

 some seasons ; the peculiarity of the present season was the 

 interval of several inches on the stem, which justified the term 

 of bract to the lower spathe. From the vicinit}^ of Philadelphia 

 numbers had been brought to him, and others had been sent 

 from Ohio, Indiana and Illinois — some hundreds of miles apart. 

 What was the peculiarity in this season over others which 

 induced the production of this bract, was one question. What- 

 ever it may have been, it operated in bringing about a change of 

 character, without the intervention of seed, directly on the plant, 

 and in Tn&ny widely separated places at the same time. What is 

 to prevent a law which operates exceptionally in one season, 

 operating again and in a regular and continuous way ? So far as 

 we can understand there can be no reason ; and, if it should, we 

 have a new species, not springing from a seed, or one individual 

 plant — constituting one geographical centre of creation from 

 which all subsequent descendants emigrated and spread them- 

 selves — but a whole brood of new individuals already widely 

 distributed over the earth's surface, and entirely freed from the 

 " struggle for existence " which the development of a species 

 from a solitary individual presupposes. 



Aside from the great value of this illustration of how the 

 whole character of a species might be modified simultaneously 



1 See Proc. Amer. Assoc. Ad. Science, vol. xxiii, p. B. 9. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



over a wide extent of country, it afforded a lesson in environ- 

 ment. External circumstances may influence modification, but 

 only in a line already prepared for modification. This must 

 necessarily be so, or change would be but blind accident, whereas 

 paleontology teaches us that change has always been in regular 

 lines, and in co-ordinate directions which no accident has been 

 able to permanently turn aside. Just as in the birth of animals, 

 we find, that however powerful may be some external law of 

 nutrition, which, acting on the primary cell of the individual 

 decides the sex, yet we see that no accident has been able to 

 disturb the proportion of the sexes born, which has alwaj'S been, 

 so far as we know, nearly equal. So in the birth of species, 

 making all allowance for the operation of environment, the 

 primary plan has been in no serious way disturbed ; we have to 

 grant something to environment in the production of new forms, 

 but only as it may aid an innate power of change, ready to expend 

 itself on action as soon as the circumstances favor such develop- 

 ment — circumstances which after all have very little ability to 

 determine what direction such change shall take. 



We know that distinct forms do spring through single indi- 

 viduals from seed, and that, after battling successfully with all 

 the vicissitudes of its surroundings, a new form may succeed in 

 spreading, through the lapse of years or ages, over a considerable 

 district of country. But the idea that always and in all cases 

 species have originated in this manner, presents, occasionally, 

 difficulties which seem insurmountable. In the case of the simi- 

 larity between the flora of Japan and that of the eastern portion 

 of the United States, we have to assume the existence of a much 

 closer connection between the land over what is now the Pacific 

 Ocean, in comparatively modern times, in order to get a satisfac- 

 tory idea of the departure of the species from one central spot ; 

 and to demand a great number of years for some plants to travel 

 from one central birthplace before the land subsided, carrying 

 back species in geological time further, perhaps, than mere geo- 

 logical facts would be willing to allow. But if we can see our wa}'^ 

 to a belief that plants may change in a wide district of country 

 simultaneously in one direction, and that these changes once 

 introduced, be able to perpetuate themselves till a new birth-time 

 should arrive, we have a great advancement towards sinaplifying 

 things. 



May 27. 



Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



Mr. Henry N. Rittenhouse was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




144 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



NEW FOSSILS FROM THE FOUR GROUPS OF THE NIAGARA PERIOD OF 

 WESTERN NEW YORK. 



by eugfne n. s. eingueberg. 



Medina Group. 

 Sphirophyton arohimedes (n. sp.). PL II, fig. 1. 



Frond large, thick ; growing in loose spirals that gradually 

 decrease in size from below upwards ; about two coils occur in 

 the space of the diameter. 



Surface on both sides crossed by broad, irregular, gently 

 undulose, wavy plications, which radiate from the centre out 

 towards the obtuse rounded margins in subspiral curves, which 

 traverse about one-fourth of the coil, following the general 

 spiral growth, which is sinistral. 



This fucoid is specially remarkable for its thickness and loose 

 spiral growth. It differs from those figured by Hall by growing 

 in decreasing spirals instead of expanding from below up. 



From the upper friable bands of the Medina sandstone at 

 Lockport. 



Clinton Group. 



TRIACRINUS (n. gen.). 



Calyx symmetrical, subelongate, ovoid to pyriform. 



Basals five, arranged in a bilaterally symmetrical series, the 

 median of which is placed to the right of the anal, and is pen- 

 tagonal ; the two next on either side are low quadrangular, and 

 the outer adjoining two, which are wider than the others, are pen- 

 tagonal and have their superior apices directed away from each 

 other. 



The second ring is tripartite and comprised of the large anal 

 and the lower elongated and expanded portion of the two lateral 

 anterior radials. 



Anal very large, forming nearly one-third of the circumference 

 of the calyx ; equilaterally heptagonal ; it rests on one of the 

 quadrangular radials and laterally against the sloping sides of 

 two adjacent pentangular ones. 



The third or true radial ring is equally quinquepartite and has 

 with the second ring — which is really but a modified portion of 

 the third — a bilateral symmetry, but differing from that of the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



basals in its axis, which is governed by the anal. Plates five, 

 three small and two large, of subequal sizes ; upper portion 

 incurved so as to form part of the brim of the dome ; deeply ex- 

 cavated above in the incurved portion, with dove-tailed notches 

 to receive the brachials; first two radials on the posterior side 

 small, resting on the sloping sides of the anal and the posteriorly 

 expanded portion of the next radials ; lateral radials much elon- 

 gated, so as to rest upon the basals ; and have the elongated 

 portion much expanded, especially anterioi'ly, where they meet 

 under the anterior radial : anterior radial small, supported by the 

 lateral radials upon their expanded portion, which in the dextral 

 one is supported by three basals like the anal, while the other 

 rests on the two wider pentagonal basals and consequently has 

 an acute inferior angle instead of a truncate one. 



This anomalous genus should probably be placed next to 

 Eyhocrinus with which it has some slight affinity. 



So far found only in the Clinton Group. 



Triacrinus pyriformis (n. sp.). PI. Ill, fig. 1. 



Calyx small, subpyriform. 



Base broad, truncate, with a slight, flat, wide depression to 

 receive the column which was here evidently about as broad ; 

 leaving only a fine sharp projecting marginal ring. 



Height to width as three to two. 



Basals medium; first to the right of anal; acutely pentagonal, 

 height and width about equal ; the quadrangular plates are about 

 one-half as high as the pentagonal ones ; height to width as one 

 to two ; the two adjoining pentagonal plates are as high as the 

 other, and are wider than high ; extending nearly half way around 

 the basal ring. 



Second ring equally triehotomous. Anal large, slightly wider 

 than high. 



First two posterior radials medium, obversely equiform with 

 their lower and external lateral sides curving outwards ; lateral 

 large radials slightly expanded posteriorly and widely anteriorly ; 

 anterior radial equilateral, with lateral angles fitting into the 

 expanded radials upon which it rests. The wide dove-tailed 

 incisions to receive the brachials are about two-thirds as wide as 

 the upper part of the plates, at their lower expanded portion ; 

 above which point the upper part of the plate is rather abruptly 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



incurved. Height three-eighths inch. From the limestone of the 

 upper portion of the Clinton Group at Lockport. 

 Triacrinus globosus (n. sp.) PI. Ill, fig. 2. 



Calyx small, globosely subovoid ; base large, deeply excavated 

 with rounding margins ; sides evenly rounding from the base to 

 the lateral apices of the incurved projections of the radials. 



Basals incurved to receive the column, low at the sutures ; 

 quadrangular basals very low, height to width as one to three ; 

 about one-half of their height is incurved into the excavated base. 



Anal large, almost as high as wide. 



Expanded portion of the lateral radials wide, forming more 

 than two-thirds of the second ring. 



Anterior radial evenly rounding from the lateral sides to an 

 acute inferior angle. 



Expanded portion of the brachial notches about one-half as 

 wide as the plate at that point. 



The specific features of this species in comparison with the 

 other, are the ovoid calyx, much more deeply excavated and 

 rounded base, narrower brachial notches in the radials, and the 

 evenly rounded sides of the small anterior radial. Height same 

 as last species ; width nearly equal to the height. The specimen 

 from which the description is taken is slightly distorted by 

 pressure. 



Locality and group the same as T. pyriforniis. 



Stictopora obliqua (n. sp.) PI. II, fig. 2. 



Flat, large, broad and long, of equal width ; with a central band 

 of upward-curving rounding lines of growth, which are irregular 

 in distance from each other, and as regards strength ; they occupy 

 from one-third to one-half of the surface, and are sometimes 

 deflected slightly to one side or the other ; the outer ends of these 

 striae of growth gradually disappear as they curve downwards 

 and approach each other upon the flat, unstriated margins ; but 

 occasionally one or two striae are more prominent than the rest, 

 and extend further downwards and outwards. 



Cells arranged in longitudinal and rectangular transverse rows 

 on the unstriated marginal thirds ; from which point the trans- 

 verse rows are deflected downwards, and meet with a rounding 

 curve in the central portion. 



The cells of the outer portions are sub-rhombic, with an out- 

 ward inclination of their outer upper corners ; deflected rows of 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 147 



cells rhomboid, becoming gradually quadrangular towards the 

 centre. 



FUNGISPONGIA (n. gen.) 



Flattened ; spreading from a fixed point ; thinning out at the 

 margin. 



From the attached portions, numerous perforations, with 

 smooth walls, radiate and branch out with many bifurcations 

 and anastomoses in all directions towards the periphery, having 

 numerous communications with the outer surface, which is quite 

 smooth. 



Fungispongia irregularis (n. sp.) PI. Ill, fig. 3. 



Flat, rather thin, irregularly spreading from a lateral or excen- 

 tric point of growth. Surface moderately convex ; rather abruptly 

 beveled off to a sharp margin, which is somewhat irregular in 

 contour. Internal structure consisting of small, closely arranged 

 radiating perforations, which, though apparently of a quite regular 

 circular form separately, are very irregular in section, in conse- 

 quence of the frequent bifurcations and intercommunications 

 occurring in their outward course. They do not always open 

 directly upon the rather smooth surface, but are directed outwards 

 towards the margin and frequently' end in furrows on the outside. 



The specimen from which this description is taken, is some- 

 what weathered in the central part, so as to well show its struc- 

 ture. From the siliceous bands of the Clinton at Lockport. 



Niagara Transition Group. 



Stictopora graminifolia (n. sp.). Pi. ITT, fig. 4. 



Very long and narrow, ribbon-like ; width one-eighth inch, 

 even throughout, flat on the noncellular and slightly convex on 

 the cellular side. 



The striae of the lines of growth are abruptly arched in the 

 centre, where they are accompanied by undulations of the surface 

 having the same general curve, but which are confined to the 

 central portion ; the stride grow more crowded as they gradually 

 approach the margin, which they continue to do for a distance 

 about equal to the width of the flat surface, where they become 

 lost just before reaching it by being merged with others in 

 common longitudinal strise, which extend some distance down the 

 side before they become finally lost. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Central thii'd occupied by five or six longitudinal rows of cells, 

 which continue throughout its entire length ; from these the 

 lateral cells are directed in nearly straight lines obliquely out- 

 wards and upwards towards the margins, at an acute angle. Cells 

 twice as long or longer than their width and are arranged irregu- 

 larly in the rows, without any apparent order. 



The length of the specimen is two and one-fourth inches, 

 which was not its entire length, several fragments having been 

 lost off either end. 



From the compact, fine-grained Niagara Transition Group 

 limestone, which was described by me in the American Naturalist, 

 Sept., 1882, at Gasport. 



Niagara Group. 



Eucalyptocrinus inconspectus (n. sp.). PI. Ill, fig. 5. 



Calyx large, cup-shaped, wide, upper part with perpendicular 

 sides ; base rounding, obconical with a small excavation to 

 receive the column. 



Column and arms unknown. 



Surface finely rugose ; rugse giving evidence of irregular radia- 

 tions from the centre of the larger plates. 



Basals concealed within the depression to receive the column. 

 First radials medium, rapidly expanding. Second radials large, 

 as high as wide. The rest of the plates, excepting the elongate 

 interradials and interbrachials, wider than high. Radial plates, 

 with the exception of the second, flattened or even slightly 

 depressed, slightly wider than high. 



This species may be distinguished from E. a-assus by the, 

 comparatively, very shallow basal excavation which receives the 

 column ; also by the finely rugose surface-markings, the rounding 

 base and nearly parallel sides at the upper part of the calyx. 

 And from £J. decorus by the longer calyx and surface-markings. 



From the Niagara limestone at Lockport. 



Cornulites contractus (n. sp.). PI. Ill, fig. 6. 



Shell much elongated, cylindrical or subcylindrical, very 

 gradually tapering ; regularly sharply annulate ; longitudinally 

 finely striate. 



Growing attached to foreign bodies or in groups when young. 



Annulations very sharply defined, equidistant ; about five to 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



one-fourth inch in the larger specimens ; they rise bj^ an even 

 curve from the rounded, contracted, inter-annular spaces and 

 form sharp angular annulations. 



Longitudinal striations prominent, closely arranged, and are 

 strongest at the bottom of the trough-like depressions, having 

 there the appearance of being minute plications produced by the 

 contraction ; they grow fainter at the apex of the annulations, 

 but continue over them to the next. The sloping sides of the 

 annulations sometimes bear one or two inconspicuous annulations 

 which do not interfere with the contour of the shell. 



The prominence and regularity of the annulations in the older 

 portions of the shell will serve to distinguish it from G. proprius, 

 with which it is associated, and to which it sometimes bears a 

 superficial resemblance in the younger attached part. 



From the Niagara shale at Lockport. 



Cornulites nodosus (n. sp.). PI. Ill, fig. 7. 



Shell small, elongate, tapering graduallj^ to an attenuate, very 

 sharp apex. 



Growing on small foreign bodies ; attached throughout. Sur- 

 face smooth, ornamented by numerous closely arranged nodes, 

 which increase in size as the shell enlarges, and are placed in 

 regular rows across it ; the terminal ones being somewhat elon- 

 gate and attached to the surface upon which it grows. 



The largest specimen found measures five thirty-seconds of an 

 inch in length. 



From the Niagara shale at Lockport. 



Lingula bicariaata (n. sp.) PI. Ill, fig. 8. 



Shell small, ovoid in outline ; beak very acute ; transverse 

 diameter widest half way from the beak ; valves evenly rounding, 

 convex ; with two hardly perceptible parallel median ridges com- 

 mencing at the beak and extending to the outer margin, widening 

 regularly as the shell increases in size. 



Concentric striae fine, even, increasing regularly by several 

 bifurcations. 



From the Niagara Shale at Lockport. 



The specimens described were all collected by myself, and the 

 types are in my collection. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 

 Plate II. 



1. Spirophpton archimedes (n. sp.) 



Two -whorls of a large specimen, natural size, 

 1 a. Lower side of a pait of a smaller fiond, showing more plainly the 

 suhspiral undulat'ons. 



2. Stictopora obliqua (n. sp.) 



Natuial size. 

 3 a. A small portion of it enlarged, showing the oblique downward curve 

 of the transverse rows ; three diameters. 



Plate IIL 



1. Triacrinus pyriformis (n. gen. et sp.) ; natural size. 



a. Poster or side ; enlarged three diameters. 

 h. Anterior side ; enlarged thiee diameters. 



c. Basal view ; enlarged three diameters. 



d. Upper side ; enlarged three diameters. 



e. Diagram of plates. 



2. Triacrinus globosus (n. sp.) 



The lettering of the figures same as last. 



3. Fungispongia irregularis (n. gen. et sp.) 



a. Section ; enlarged three diameters. 



4. Stictopora graminifolia (n. sp. ) 



a. Portion ; enlarged three diameters. 



5. Eucalyptocrinus inconspectus (n. sp.) 



6. Cornulites contractus (n. sp.) 



a. A group of three individuals growing together. 

 6. Surface of 6 ; enlarged three diameters. 



7. Cornulites nodosus (n. sp.) 



a. Same individual ; enlarged three diameters. 



8. lAngula hicarinata (n. sp. ) 



Interior of valve. 




1884.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 151 



June 3. 

 Mr. Edward Potts in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



A paper, entitled " On the Mutual Relations of the Hemi- 

 branchiate Fishes," by Theodore Gill, was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



Opposite Leaves in Salix nigra. — At the meeting of the Botanical 

 Section on June 2, Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that few 

 botanists would expect to find opposite leaves in Salix; but in S. 

 nigra Marshall, they appear at a certain stage of growth, which 

 has much significance. This species is of that section which has 

 the flower cotetaneous with the leaves ; that is to sa3', instead of 

 the aments being sessile they terminate short branches. They 

 are, however, not absolutely terminal, but appear so by the sup- 

 pression for a time of the terminal bud. In the case of the female 

 ament this terminal bud usually starts to grow very soon after 

 the flowers mature, and forms a second growth, when the fertile 

 catkin or raceme of fruit, becomes lateral. It is the first pair of 

 leaves on this second growth that is opposite — all the rest are 

 alternate as in the normal character of the genus. The leaves are 

 so uniformly opposite under these circumstances, that there must 

 be some general law determining the condition, which has not yet 

 been developed. 



June 10. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



A paper, entitled " On the Anacanthine Fishes," by Theodore 

 Gill, was presented for publication. 



June 17. 

 Rev. H. C. McCooK, D. D., "Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



A Spider that makes a spherical Mud-daub Cocoon. — The Rev. 

 Dr. H. C. McCooK said that in November, 1883, he received from 

 Mr. F. M. Webster, Assistant State Entomologist of Illinois, two 

 globular nodules of earth, about the size of a grape, which were 

 thought to be the cocoons of a spider. Similar balls had often 

 been found attached, by a slender thread or cord of silk, to the 

 underside of boards laid down on the ground. From some of 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884, 



these Mr. Webster had bred a parasitic ichneumon-fly. One box, 

 in which mud-balls had been placed the preceding summer, was 

 found by him in the autumn (November) to contain such para- 

 sites together with a number of young spiders, all dead. The 

 spiders were not preserved, but the mud-balls were sent to the 

 S|jeaker for determination. One of these had an opening in the 

 side about one millimetre in diameter from which evidently an 

 ichneumon parasite had escaped. It contained the stiff, white 

 cell commonly spun by the larva of this insect. The other 

 resembled closely the spherical mud egg-nest of the wasp 

 Eumenes, there being even a small nozzle at one pole, from which, 

 however, unlike the mud-daub of the wasp, a slight silken cord 

 protruded. Dr. McCook was much puzzled to decide upon the 

 nature of these objects, but on the wliole believed them to be the 

 work of some hymenopterous insect, and not of a spider. Two 

 ichneumons, which emerged from similar cells, were determined 

 by Mr. E. T. Cresson to be Pezomachus meabilis Cresson. 



Subsequently Mr. Webster sent other specimens, some of which 

 were opened. They contained silken sacks imbedded in the centre 

 of the mud-ball, apparently of spider spinning-work, and within 

 these were fifteen or tv/enty yellowish eggs, evidently of a spider. 

 This, of course, modified the speaker's view, and he set aside the 

 specimens, of which he had now a number, in the hope of hatching 

 out the contents. The disjecta membra of two adult spiders 

 taken near the balls, though much broken, enabled him to deter- 

 mine them as Drassids (Drassoidas, a family of the Tubeweavers), 

 and probably of the genus 3Iico,ria. Mr. Webster simply found 

 these near the mud-balls, but did not know that they had anj'^ 

 connection with them. Dr. McCook moistened the cocoons in 

 order to give a natural condition more favorable for the escape 

 of the spiderlings. should they hatch, and May 30, 1884, on 

 opening a box, he found about thirty lively young spiders 

 therein. On the bottom of the box was a dead ichneumon, wliich 

 had cut its way out of the side of one of the balls, by a round 

 hole. The spiderlings seemed to have escaped from their ball 

 along the slight duct left at the point where the bit of silken 

 cord was imbedded in the hard earth, and thence protruded, 

 forming the cocoon-stalk by which the ball was attached to an 

 undersurface. • The appearance of the spiderlings indicated that 

 they had been hatched two or three days when first seen. They 

 were Drassids, evidently the same species as the broken speci- 

 mens above alluded to. Thus the interesting habit of concealing 

 her future progeny within a globular cradle of mud was demon- 

 strated to belong to a spider, as well, as to a wasp. That this 

 particular species is much subject to the attacks of hj^menopterous 

 parasites is already proved ; but that it is more exposed than 

 many other species which spin silken cocoons otherwise unpro- 

 tected in the very same locality, does not appear. There is no 

 evidence that so strange a habit has developed from necessity, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



and none that it proves more protective than the ordinary 

 araneal cocoonery. 



Mr. Webster has found these mud-cocoons throughout the 

 whole range of Illinois, a State of great longitudinal extent. 

 Two balls from Southern Illinois are larger than the others, and 

 composed of yellowish earth, but Dr. McCook had not yet suc- 

 ceeded in breeding anything from them. The balls from Central 

 Illinois are made out of the rich black soil common to the prairies ; 

 the spiderlings hatched were from this section. He had named 

 the species provisionally Micaria limnicunae {limnus^ mud; 

 curiae, a cradle), but thought it possible that Hentz may have 

 described the species among some one of his genus Herpyllus. 

 The young have pale yellow abdomens, of uniform color, and legs 

 and cephalothorax of a uniform livid or stone-color. The adults 

 (females) are of a uniform dark amber color ; the cephalothorax 

 glossy, leathery and smooth. The cephalic part is depressed 

 below the thoracic part, sloping forward and downward. The 

 body length is about one-fourth inch. 



The only spider cocoons known to the speaker at all resem- 

 bling those of Limnicunae he had collected in a field at Alexandria 

 Bay, New York, on the St. Lawrence River, 1882. They were 

 attached by very loose spinning-work to the underside of stones. 

 But the external case instead of being mud, was a mass of agglom- 

 erated particles of old wood, bark, leaves, blossoms, the shells 

 and wings of insects, etc. These were evidently gnawed off, 

 gathered and placed together, and then held in position by deli- 

 cate and sparsely-spun filaments of silk. Two of these chip-balls 

 were opened, and contained whitish cocoons similar to those in 

 the mud-balls of Limnicunae ; another had within it the charac- 

 teristic cell of some hymenopterous parasite, containing a dried- 

 up pupa. A very thin veneering of yellow soil enclosed the 

 silken case, but otherwise no mud was used. He put aside three 

 specimens which remained, in the hope of hatching out and thus 

 determining the species of the maker, but nothing ever appeared, 

 and he had not wished to destroy such interesting specimens for 

 the sake of knowing the condition of the interior. But on com- 

 paring these specimens with those of Mr. Webster as now before 

 him. Dr. McCook believed that they were the work of closely 

 related, or perhaps even the same species. 



It is quite common for spiders of various and widely separated 

 families to give their cocoons a protective upholstering of 

 scraped bark, old wood, etc., and not unusual to find species 

 that cover their egg-nests wholly or in part with mud. But the 

 speaker was not aware that an}^ species had yet been published 

 as making cocoons like either of the above-described forms. He 

 believed, therefore, that the facts were wholly new to science — 

 certainly they were new to the field of American Araneology. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ON THE MUTUAL RELATIONS OF THE HEMIBRANCHIATE FISHES, 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



§ 1. Introductory. 



In my "Arrangement of the Families of Fishes," (1872, p. 13, 14) 

 before I was aware of the peculiarities of the shoulder girdle, and 

 only knowing the characters assigned to the order by Cope, I 

 retained the Hemibranchii in the order Teleocephali, but in the 

 introductory commentary (p, xxxix) I raised the group to ordinal 

 rank, to which it seems entitled. Prof. Cope, however, is entitled 

 to the credit of having first appreciated the distinctness of the 

 group as a whole, although the characters assigned to it were not, 

 perhaps, of the highest systematic value. As now understood, 

 the order seems to be definable as follows : — 



HEMIBRANCHII. 



= Hemibranchii, Cope, Pfoc. Am. Ass. Adv. Science, v. 20, p. 338, 1872. 

 = Hemibranchii, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p, xxxix, 1873 (Based 



on shoulder girdle). 

 = Hemibranchii, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil, Soc, v. 13, p. 25, 1873. 

 = Hemibranchii, Gill, Johnson's New Universal Cyclopasdia, v. 2, p. 872, 



1877 (defined). 

 = Hemibranchii, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 387, 1882. 

 Acanthopterygii, fam., auct. plur. 



In the " Arrangement of the Families of Fishes " (1872, pp. 

 13, 14), six families were recognized for the Hemibranchs, whose 

 combinations and correspondence with the families of previous 

 authors are shown in the following abstract : — 



" (H. Gasterosteiformes.) 



( Gasterosteoidea. ) 

 183. OasterosteidcB O aster osteidce, Gthr., i, 1-7, 



134. Aulorhynchidm AulorhynchoidcB, Gill, P. A, N. S. Phil., 1862, 233, 



(Aulostomoidea.) 



135. AulostomidcB Fistulariida, Gthr., iii, 529, 535-538. 



136. MstulariidcB Fistnila/riidm, Gthr., iii, 529-534. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 155 



(H. Centrisciformes.) 



137. Centriscidm Centriscidm, Gthr., iii, 518-524. 



138. Amphisilidm Centriscidm, Gthr., iii, 518, 524-527." 



In the " Introduction to the Study of Fishes " (1880, p. 50T), 

 Dr. Giinther has referred the Aulorhynchoid fishes to the family 

 Fistulariidse. 



In the " Synopsis of theFishes of North America " (1 882, p. 387), 

 five families were recognized for American species by Messrs. 

 Jordan & Gilbert, and grouped as follows : — 



" * Bones of head produced into a long tube, which bears the 

 short jaws at its end. 

 a. Body short, compressed, scaly ; no teeth ; spinous dorsal 

 present. ..... Centriscidae, 60. 



aa. Body elongate ; teeth present. 

 6. Dorsal spines none ; a long caudal filament ; no scales. 



Fistulariidae , 61 

 bb. Dorsal spines present, disconnected ; no caudal filament, 

 c. Body covered with ctenoid scales. Aulostomatidae, 62. 

 cc. Body scaleless, with bony shields. 



Aulorhynchidae^ 63. 



** Bones of head moderately produced ; ventrals 1,1; dorsal 



preceded by free spines ; body scaleless, naked or mailed. 



Gasterosteidae, 64." 



On a recent review of the forms of the order, I am more than 

 ever convinced of the aptness of the classification proposed by 

 myself in 1872 and submit the following table and characters 

 which will, I think, amply justify that confidence. Far from 

 being able to see any close affinity between the Aulorhynchidae 

 and Aulostomidse, I am Unable to appreciate any very distinctive 

 differences from the Gasterosteidae, and the close affinity between 

 Aulorhynchus and Spinachia is such that I regard the family 

 Aulorhynchidae simply as a convenient one at the most, and as 

 expressing the culmination in one direction of the tendency 

 characteristic of the order. I should be scarcely disinclined to 

 dissent from any who should combine the Gasterosteidae and 

 Aulorhynchidae in one family. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



§ 2. Synopsis of Families. 



I. Dermal armature absent or developed only as plates on sides or 



back; vertebrae numerous (30 to 86) ; pubic bones connected 

 with scapular arch ; spinous dorsal represented by isolated 

 spines. 



1. Vertebrae anteriorly little enlarged ; ventrals subthoracic, 



with enlarged spines {G aster osteoidea). 



a. Branchiostegal rays three ; ventrals with one ray each ; 



snout conic or but slightly tubiform. Gasterosteidse. 



b. Branchiostegal rays four ; ventrals with four rays each ; 



snout tubiform. .... Aulorhynchidae. 



2. Vertebrae anteriorly (first four) elongate ; ventrals sub- 



abdominal or near middle, without spines, but with 6 (or 5) 

 rays (Aulostomoidea). 



c. Dorsal spines developed, weak ; body compressed, moder- 



ately long, with ctenoid scales. . . Aulostomidse. 



d. Dorsal spines undeveloped ; body depressed or sub- 



cylindrical, very long, without scales (caudal with the 

 two middle rays produced into a long filament). 



Fistulariidae. 



II. Dermal armature superficial, developed anteriorly and espe- 



cially about the back; four anterior vertebrae much elongate ; 

 tail with its axis continuous with that of the abdomen ; 

 branchihj^als and pharyngeals mostly present (fourth 

 superior branchihyal and first and fourth superior pharyn- 

 geals only wanting) ; pubic bones not connected with the 

 scapular arch; a spinous dorsal fin developed (Macrorham- 

 phosoidea). . . . . , Macrorhamphosidae. 



III. Dermal armature connate with the internal skeleton, and 



developed as (1) a dorsal cuirass in connection with the 

 neuropophyses and (2) lateral shields connected with the 

 ribs ; vertebrae reduced ; six or more anterior vertebrae 

 extremely elongate, with normal articulations of centra ; 

 tail with its axis deflected from that of the abdomen by 

 encroachment of a dorsal cuirass over the dorsal fin ; 

 branchial system feebly developed (fourth superior bran- 

 chihyal and all the superior pharyngeals wanting) ; pubic 

 bones not connected with the scapular arch ; a spinous 

 dorsal feebly developed under the posterior projection of 

 the dorsal buckler. (Amphisiloidea) . . Amphisilidee. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 157 



§ 3. Diagnoses of Groups. 



GASTEROSTEID^. 



Synonyms as families. 



< Atractosomes, Dumeril, Zool. Anal., 14e fam., p. 124, 1806. 



■< Acanti, Jlafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog. Siciliana, 15. oid., p. 18, 1810. 

 ■< Atractomia ( Garanxia), Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, 8e fam., p. 

 — , 1815. 



< Scomberoides, Cuvier, Regne Animal [1. ed.], t. 2, p. 311 (319), 1817. 



< Percoides? Latreille, Fam. Nat. du Regne Animal, p. 135, 1825. 



< Centronotides, Risso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 426, 1826. 



< Zeid'P, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc. v. 2, p. 241, 1839. 

 <^ Tnglidm {Qasterosteini), Bonaparte, Giorn. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 



(Saggio Distrib. Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 32), 



1832. 

 = Qasterosteida, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838; 



t. 4, p. 275, 1840. 

 = Gasterosieidce, Girard, Expl. and Surv. for R. R. Route to Pacific Oc, 



V. 10, Fishes, p. 84, 1858. 

 =: Gasterosteoidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Pise. Archip. Ind., p. xxiii, 1859. 

 = Gasterosteidm, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 1, p. 1, 1859. 

 = Gasterosteoida', Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861. 

 =r Gasterosteidce, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., v. 20, p. 338, 1872. 

 = Gasierostei, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch, (Wien), 



B. 67, 1. Abth., p. 34, 1873. 

 = Gasterosteidce, Giinther, Int. to Study of Fishes, p. 504, 1880. 

 = GasterosteidiF, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., pp. 387, 393, 1833. 

 Percoides [?], Latreille, 1825. 

 Triglidnp, Subf. Gasterosteini, Bonaparte, 1832. 



Hemibranchs with the anterior vertebrae little enlarged, a more 

 or less fusiform body, conic or moderately produced snout, sides 

 naked, or with a row of bony shields, and ventrals subthoraclc, 

 each with a large spine, and one or two rays. 



Apeltinse. 



Gasterosteids with post-thoracic ventrals, pubic bones widely 

 separated behind and extending on the sides, a moderately 

 projecting snout, and a moderate caudal peduncle. 



APELTES. 



= Apeltes (Brevoort), Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad. 



Nat., n. s., V. 2, p. 8. 

 = Apeltes, Jordan, Man. Vertebrates Northern U. S., p. 249, 1876. 



< Gasterosteus, Sauvage, Nouv. Arch. Mus. d'Hist. Nat. Paris, t. 10, pp. 



7, 29, 1874. (Subgenus). 




158 PEOCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Apeltines with the branchial apertures restricted and three free 

 dorsal spines. 



Type, A quadracus = Gasterosteus quadracus Mitch. 



Gasterosteinse. 



Synonyms as subfamilies. 



< Q aster osteini, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Dis- 



trib. Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 32), 1832 ; Nuovi 

 Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838 ; t. 4, p. 275, 1840. 



< Gasterosteinm, Gill, Cat, Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad. 



Nat., n. s., V. 2, p. 8, 1865. 



Gasterosteids with post-thoracic ventrals, pubic bones con- 

 nected and constituting a triangular median plate, a moderately 

 projecting snout, and a moderate caudal peduncle. 



EUCALIA. Jordan. 

 ^Eucalia, Jordan, Man. Vertebrates Northern U. S., p. 248, 1876. 

 Gasterosteus sp., Kirtland, Agassiz, et al. 



Gasterosteines with the branchial apertures confluent, and four 

 or five non-divergent and equally reclinable free dorsal spines. 

 Type, E. inconstans = Gasterosteus inconstans Kirtland. 



PYGOSTEUS. 



<C Leiurus, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 175, 242 



(subgenus). 

 = Pygosteus (Brevoort), Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; 



Canad. Nat., n. s., v. 2, p. 8. 

 = Pygosteus, Jordan, Man. Vertebrates Northern U. S., p. 249, 1876. 

 =: Gasterostea, Sauvage, Nouv. Arch. Mus. d'Hist. Nat. Paris, t. 10, pp. 



7, 29, 1874. (Subgenus). 

 Gasterosteus sp., Artedi, Linnaeus, Lacepede, Cuvier, Fleming, Cuv. & 



Val., Girard, Giinther, etc. 

 Gasteracanthus sp., Pallas. 



Gasterosteines with the branchial apertures confluent (the 

 branchiostegal membrane having a free inferior margin), and 

 seven to eleven generally divergent spines. 



Type, P. pungitius = Gasterosteus pungitius L. 



GASTEROSTEUS. 



< Gasterosteus, Artedi, Genera Piscium, p. 52, 1738. 



< Gasterosteus, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. x, t. 1, p, 295, 1758. 

 <; Gasterosteus, Lacepede, Hist, des Poissons, t. 3, p. — , 1802. 



<; Gasteracanthus, Pallas, Zoographia Ross- o- Asia tica, t. 3, p. 228 (1811), 

 1831, 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 159 



<C Gasterosteus, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire 6d., t. 2, p. 300, 1817. 

 (Subgenus). 



< Gasterosteus, Fleming, Hist. Brit. Animals, p. 219, 1828. 



<^ Gasterosteus, Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, t. 4, p. 



479, 1829. - 

 X Gasterosteus, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 175, 



242, 1839. 

 X Leiurus, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 175, 242. 



(Subgenus). 

 <; Gasterosteus, Girard, Expl. and Surv. for R. R. Route to Pacific Oc, v. 



10, Fishes, p. 85, 185 S. 



< Gasterosteus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 1, p. 2, 1859. 



= Gasterosteus, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 39, 1861 ; Canad. Nat., 



n. s., V. 2, p. 8, 1865. 

 <^ Gasterosteus, Sauvage, Nouv. Arch. Mus. d'Hist, Nat. Paris, t. 10, pp. 



7, 9, 1874. (Subgenus.) 

 = Gasterosteus, Jordan, Man. Vertebrates Northern U. S., p, 248, 1876. 



Gasterosteines with the branchial apertures restricted (the 

 branehiostegal membrane being attached below), and two free 

 divergent spines. 



Type, G. aculeatus L. 



Spinachiinse. 

 Synonymy. 

 SpinacManm, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., v. 14, p. 233, 1862. 

 SpinachiincB, Gill, Johnson's New Universal Cycl., v. 4, p. 558 (under 

 "Stickle-back"), 1878. 



Gasterosteids with a very projecting subtubiform snout, sub- 

 abdominal ventrals, and elongated caudal peduncle. 



SPINACHIA. 



= Les Gastres (Spinachia), Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2, p. 320, 1817. 



= Spinachia, Fleming, Hist. Brit. Animals, p. 219, 1828. 



=^ Polycanthus, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 175, 



242. 

 ^ Gastrma, Sauvage, Nouv. Arch, Mus. d'Hist. Nat. Paris, t. 10, pp. 7, 



29, 1874. (Subgenus). 

 Gasterosteus sp., Linn., et al, 



Spinachiines of unique type. 



Type, S. vulgaris = Gasterosteus spinachia Linn. 



AULORHYNCHIDiE3. 



Synonyms as family names. 

 = Aulorhynehoidce, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 14], p. 233, 1862. 

 = AulorhynchidcB, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 14, 1872. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



= Aulorhynchidm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes, N. Am., pp. 387, 391, 



1883. 

 MstulariidcB, gen., Giinther. 



Synonym as subfamily name. 

 = AulorhyncUnm, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Phila. [v. 13], p. 169, 1861, 



Hemibranclis with the anterior vertebrae little enlarged, an 

 elongated . subcylindrical body, elongated tubiform snout ; sides 

 with a row of bony shields, and ventrals subthoracic, with a 

 spine and four rays each. 



AULORHYNCHTIS. 



= Aulorhynchus, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. So. Phila. [v. 13], p. 169, 1861. 

 = Auliscops, Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wiss., 1866, p. 510, 

 1866. 



Aulorhynchids with a smooth-skinned crown and tube, lateral 

 plates unarmed and hidden in the skin, dorsal spines (25-26) 

 moderately short, and naked back. 



Type, A. flavidus Gill. 



AULICHTHYS. 



— AuUchthys (Brevoort), Gill, Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 14], p. 234, 



1863. 

 Aulorhynchus sp., Steindachner, 



Aulorhynchids with a corrugated crown and rostral tube, lateral 

 plates each armed with a longitudinal posteriorly spinous ridge, 

 dorsal spines (about 25) very short and transversely triangular, 

 and reclining in grooves, behind each of which is a small plate. 



Tj^pe, A. Japonicus (Brev.) Gill, 



AULOSTOMID-ffil. 



Synonymy. 

 <^ Aulostomides, Latreille, Fam. Nat. du Regne Animal, p. 129, 1825. 

 <^ AulostomatidcB, Cantor, Cat. Malayan Fishes, p. 211, 1850. 

 = Aulostomatoidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archip. Ind., p. xxiii, 



1859. 

 < Aulosiomatoids, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 13], p. 168, 1861. 

 = AulostomidcB, Gill. Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 14, 1872. 

 <; Aulostomateidce, Cantor, Day, Fi.shes of India, v. 1, p. 360, 1878. 

 = AulostomatidcB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., pp. 387, 390, 



1883. 

 Bouches en flute, gen., Cuvier. 

 MstularidcB, gen., Giinther, et al. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Hemibranchs with the first four vertebrae elongated, the form 

 elongated compressed, with an elongated tubiform mouth ; the 

 body covered with cycloid scales, with subabdominal ventrals 

 composed of six rays but without spines, and with a series of 

 dorsal spines. 



AULOSTOMA. 



= Aulostoma, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, t. 5, p. 357, 1803. 



< Polppterichthys, Bleeker, Natuurk. Tijdschr. Nederlandsch Indie, v. 4, 



p. 608. 

 Fistularia sp., Linn. 

 Solenostomus sp., Gronow. 



Aulostomids with a much compressed bod}', rudimentary teeth, 

 8-12 dorsal spines, opposite oblong dorsal and anal (with 23-28 

 rays each), and a cuneiform caudal. 



Type, A. chinensis = Fistularia chinensis Linn. 



PISTULARIID^, 



Synonyms as family names. 



< Siphonostomes, Dumeril, Zool. Anal., 23e fam., p. 138, 1806. 

 CentriscMni? Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiologia Siciliana, p. 34, 1810. 



< Siphostomia (Aulostomia), Rafinesque, Aualyse de la Nature, 20e fam., 



p. — , 1815. 



< Bouchea en flute, Cuvier, Regne Animal [Ire ed.], t. 2, p. 348, 1817; 2e 



ed., t. 2, p. 267, 1829. 



< Aulostomides, Latreille, Fam. Nat. du Regne Animal, p. 129, 1825. 



< Centrisecides, Risso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 47(5, 1826. 



< Fistularidm, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1832; Isis, 1833, 

 col. 1200. 



< Scomberidce (FistularincB), Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., 



V. 2, pp. 175, 240, 1839. 



< Fistularidm, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 190, 1840. 



< Fistularioidei^ Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, fam. 133, 



p. xxvi, 1859. 



< FistulariidoB, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 3, p. 529, 1861. 



< Fistulariidw, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sc, v. 20, p. 339, 1872. 



= Fistulariidm, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 14, 1872. (Named 

 only.) 



< Fistularia, Fitzingcr, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), 



B. 67, 1. Abth., p. 35, 1873. 



< Fistulariidm, Giinther, Int. to Study of Fishes, p. 507, 1880. 



— Fistulariidm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., pp. 387, 388, 1882. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Synonyms as subfamily names. 

 <^ Fistularini, Bonaparte, Giorii. Accad. di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animal Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1833 ; Isis, 1833, 



col. 1200. 

 <; Fistularini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annale delle Sc. Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 190, 1840. 

 = Mstularinm, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 3, pp. 175, 



240, 1839. 



Hemibranchs with the first four vertebrae very long; a very 

 elongated and somewhat depressed body ; a long tubiform 

 snout ; without scales, with the ventrals near the middle, and 

 having five or six ra3'^s each, but no spines, and without dorsal 

 spines (the two middle rays of the caudal produced and united 

 into a long filament). 



FISTaLAEIA. 

 <; Solenostomus, Klein. 



< Fistularia, Linn., Syst. Nat., 10. ed., v. 1. 



= Fistularia, Lac, Hst. Nat. des Poissons, t. 5, p. 349. 

 := Channorhynehus, Cantor, Cat. Malayan Fish., p. 311. (Proposed on 

 account of preoccupation of Fistularia by Donati.) 



Fistulariids of unique genus. 

 Type, F. tabaccaria Linn. 



MACRORHAMPHOSIDJE. 



Synonyms as family names. 

 <C Aphyostomes, Dumeril, Zool. Anal., 5. fam., p. 108, 1806. 

 ^ Centrischini, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiologia Siciliana, p. 34 (33. ord.^), 

 1810. 



< Siphostomia (Aulostomia), Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, 30. fam., 



p. — , 1815. 



< Bouches en flute, Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2, p. 348, 1817. 



< Aulostomides, Latre'lle, Fam. Nat. du Regne Animal, p. 139, 1835. 



< Centriscides, Rsso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, p. 476, 1836. 



< Fistularidce (Cei'tiiscini), Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 53 



(Saggio. Distrib. Metod. Animal. Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 

 1833 ; Isis, 1833, col. 1200. 



< Fistularidm, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sc. Nat., t. 3, p. 133, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 190, 1840. 



< Fistularidce, Bonaparte, Cat. Metod. dei Pesci Europei, pp. 7, 70, 1846. 

 = Centriscoidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. PisciUm Archipel. Indico, p. xxiii, 



1859. 



< CentriicidcB, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 3, p. 518, 1861. 



Macroramphosus is included in the 35. ord. Siluridi (p. 35.) 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



= Centriscidm, Gill, Arrangement Fam. Fishes, p. 25, 1873. 



< Centrisci, Fitznger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), B, 



67, 1. Abth.. p. 35, 1873, 

 = Centriscidoe, Joidan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. A., p. 387, 1882. 



Subfamily synonyms. 



<l Centriscini, Bonaparte, Giorn. Accad. di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 35), 1833 ; Isis, 1833, 



p. 1200. 

 <^ Centriscini, Bonaparte, 1850. 

 = CentriscincB, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phila., 1862, p. 234, 1862, 



< Orthichthyinm, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila,, 1863, p. 334, 1862, 



Heroibranchs with the four anterior vertebrae much lengthened; 

 bony plates anteriorly and especialh^ about the back ; an elongated 

 tubiform mouth ; abdominal ventrals with a spine and several 

 rays ; a small distinct spinous dorsal about the middle of the 

 body ; with the branchihyals and pharangeals mostly present, the 

 fourth superior branchihyal, and first and fourth superior pharyn- 

 geals only wanting. 



MACKORHAMPHOSUS. 



= Macrorhamphosus, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, t. 5, p. 136, 



= Ceniriscus, Cuvier, Regne Animal, 1. ed., t. 3, p. 350, 1817. 



> Orthichthys, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 234, 1863. 



Macrorhamphosids with an oblong body, graduating into the 

 caudal peduncle, straight back, and about seven dorsal spines. 



Type, M. scolopax = Gentriscus scolopax Linn., 1766. 



As Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert have recently shown (Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., V. 5, p. 575, 1883), the only species referred by Linnaeus 

 at first to the genus Gentriscus, was the G. scutatus (afterwards 

 taken as the type of Amphisile) , a.nd consequently Gentriscus can- 

 not be properly used as the designation of the present genus. The 

 name Macrorhamphosus, being the first applicable, although 

 imposed by mistake, may be used for it. It is unfortunate that 

 the change should have to be made, and, although fully con- 

 versant with the status years ago, I hesitated to propose it. 

 Nevertheless with such excellent authorities as Messrs. Jordan 

 & Gilbert to recognize its necessity, I no longer refuse to 

 accede to the change. 



CENTBISCOfS. 



= Centriscops, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila. 1862, p, 234, 1862. 

 Centrisctis sp., Richardson, et al. 




164 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Macrorhamphosids with a deep body, abruptly contracted 

 caudal peduncle, an excurrent peaked back, and about four to five 

 dorsal spines. 



Type, G. humerosus = Centriscus humerosus Richardson. 



AMPHISILID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



= AmpMsiloidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Arcliip. Ind., p, xvi, 1859 ; 



Atlas Ich. des Indes Neerland., t. 5, p. xv, 1865. 

 := AmphisiUdcB, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., v, 20, p. 338, 1873. 

 = AmphisilidcB, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 25, 1872. 



Subfamily Synonym. 

 = AmpMsilinm, Gill, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci, Phila, (v. 14). p. 284, 1862. 



< CentriscidcB, pt., Giinther, 1861, 



< Oentrisci, pt., Fitzinger, 1873. 



Hemibranchs with six or more anterior vertebrae extremely 

 elongated, the caudal much abbreviated, paired selliform dorsal 

 plates connected with the neuropophyses of the dorsal vertebrae, 

 and lateral ones developed in connection with the ribs, an elon- 

 gated tubiform mouth, abdominal ventrals, two dorsals, and with 

 the entire caudal portion of the body deflected downwards by the 

 encroachment of the dorsal cuirass over the dorsal fins ; and with 

 the " fourth supra-branchihyal, and all the superior pharyngeals 

 wanting " (Cope). 



CENTRISCTIS. 



=^ Centriscus, Linn., Syst. Nat., 10, ed., v. 1. 



< Centriscus, Linn., Syst. Nat., 12. ed., v. 1. 



< Amphisile (Klein), Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2, p. 350, 1817. 



= Acentrachme, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Phila. (v. 14), p. 234, 1862. 

 = Amphisile, s, g, Acentrachme, Liitken, Vid. JVIedd. Naturhist. Foren, 

 Kjobenhavn, 1865, p. 215, 1866. 



Amphisilids without a movable spine connected with the pos- 

 terior process of the dorsal cuirass. 

 Type, G. scutatus. 



AMPHISILE. 



< Amphisile, Klein, Hist. Piscium Nat. promov. Miss., p. 28, 1744 (not 



binomial), 



< Amphisile, Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. 2. p. 350, 1817. 



= Amp7dsile, Gill, Proc, Acad. Nat, Sci, Phila. (v, 14), p, 234, 1862, 

 =^ Amphisile. s. g. Amphisile, Liitken, Vid. Mcdd. Naturhist. Ftireu. Kjo- 

 benhavn, 1865, p. 215, 1866. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 165 



AmpWsilids with a spine at the posterior process of the dorsal 

 cuirass. 



Type, A. strigata = Amphisile sp., Klein. 



§ 4. Extinct Families. 



In addition to these types, all represented in the existing 

 faunas, there are two fishes no longer living, which cannot be 

 referred to any of the families as now restricted, but appear to be 

 types of peculiar ones. They are the Urosphen fistularis and Bham- 

 phosus aculeatus of Agassiz ; both have been found in the cele- 

 brated fish-beds of Mount Bolca. These have been referred to the 

 family Fistulariidae by Dr. Giinther, but one of them is more nearly 

 related to the Macrorhamphosidee and Gasterosteidae. They are 

 imperfectly known, but appear to be distinguishable as family 

 t3'pes by the following characters, which will doubtless be sup- 

 plemented by others when well-preserved specimens or character- 

 istic parts shall be critically examined. 



UROSPHENIDiE. 



Hemibranchs with the first four vertebrae much elongate, a 

 moderately elongated body, a long tubiform mouth (ventrals 

 abdominal? dorsal unknown), and a very large cuneiform caudal. 



RHAMPHOSID^. 



Hemibranchs with the anterior vertebra normal (not elongated) 

 and separate, about 22 (8 abdominal and 14 caudal) vertebrae 

 in all, plates on the nape and shoulders only, with a tubiform 

 mouth, subthoracic ventrals, a dorsal spine behind the nuchal 

 armature, and the second dorsal and anal far behind and opposite. 



§ 5. The Pegasidse. 

 Finallj', there is a family which has been shifted from place to 

 place in the system, and which has been referred by Prof. Cope 

 to the order Hemibranchii. Its type was regarded as a chon- 

 dropterygian by Linnaeus and the elders, as a syngnathoid fish 

 by Cuvier ; first isolated in a family by Latreille ; received the 

 family name Pegasidae from H. Adams in 1854 ; was pronounced 

 to be related to the Agonidae by Steenstrup in 1866 ; placed next 

 to them by Giinther (Int., p. 482, 1880), and relegated to the 

 Hemibranchii by Cope. It has also been regarded as the repre- 

 sentative of a peculiar order (" ordo 12. Pegasi "), of the " sub- 




166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



legio " Lophobranchii by Bleeker, and as a suborder (Hyposto- 

 mides) of the order Lophobranchii by A. Dumeril. Having no 

 skeleton to examine, I retain it in the present order solely on the 

 authority of Prof. Cope, and with some doubt as to its right 

 herein. 



PEGASIDJE. 



Family SynonymSi 

 <C Spherionidi? Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog. Siciliana, p. 40, 1810. 



< Pomanchia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, 25. fam., 1815. 



= Bypostomides, Latie He, Fam. Nat. du Regne Animal, p. 117, 1825. 



<^ SyngnathidcB, Bonaparte, Giorn. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod, Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 39), 1832 ; Isis, 1833, 



c. 97, 119. 



< Syngnathidm, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 195, 



831, 1839, 



< Syngnathidce, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 130, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 185, 1840. 

 <[ Sippocampidce, Nardo, Atti Congressi Scienz. Ital. rac. et ord., v. 1, p. 



70 (1842), 1845. 

 = PegasidcB, Kaup, Archiv fur Naturg., 19. Jahrg., B. 1, p^ 227, 1853 ; also 



Cat. Lophobr. Fishes Brit. Mus., p. 3, 1856. 

 = PegasidcB, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 94, 1854. 



= Pegasoidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xv, 1859. 

 — Pegasidoe, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 8, p. 146, 1870. 

 = Pegasidce, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., v. 20, p. 339, 1872. 

 = Pegasi, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), B. 67, 



1. Abth., p. 49, 1873. 

 = PegasidcB, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, v. 13, p» 25, 1873. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 

 = Pegasini, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 39), 1832. 

 = Pegasini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, x, p. 130, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 186, 1840. 

 = Pegasini, Nardo, Atti Congressi Scienz. Ital. rac. et ord., v. 1, p. 70 



(1842), 1844. 

 = Pegasini, Bonaparte, Catal. Metod. Pesci Europe!, pp. 9, 89, 1846.* 



Hemibranchs? with the snout projecting and the mouth 

 inferior. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPmA. 167 



ON THE ANACANTHINE FISHES. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



Under the name Anacanthini have been grouped those Teleost 

 fishes which have " vertical and ventral fins without spinous 

 rays; the ventral fins, if present, are jugular or thoracic; air- 

 bladder, if present, without pneumatic duct " (Giinther, Int. to 

 Study of Fishes, p. 537, 1880). These characters are not re- 

 inforced by any others, but nevertheless the fishes so character- 

 ized have been segregated by most ichthyologists into an "order." 

 The propriety of such valuation was disputed by the present 

 writer in 1861 (Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. Am., p. 7 ), and the group 

 degraded to the rank of a suborder, and subsequently (Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1863, p. 255), the genus Zoarces was trans- 

 ferred to it and associated with the Lycodinse and Gymnelinae in 

 the same family. The American ichth3-ologists have generally 

 acceded to the propriety of this degradation of the Anacanthini 

 to subordinal rank. Most have also conceded the propriety of 

 the association of Zoarces with the forms indicated, as has also 

 Prof. Collett of Norway (Den Norske Nordhavs Expedition 

 1876-1878; Ficke, p. 78-79, 1880), although Prof. Cope has still 

 retained Zoarces among the Blenniidae. The subordinate rank 

 of the Anacanthini appears indeed to be too evident to need 

 further emphasis in this place, and its value as a suborder, or 

 even as a natural and homogeneous group,may be justly questionad 

 and denied. Nevertheless, for the sake of convenience at least, 

 the collection ma}'^ be provisionally (and only provisionally) pre- 

 served. The group under various names has been adopted by 

 European authors, and the following are synonyms, exclusive of 

 those pertaining to the Heterosomatous types. 



JUGULARES OR ANACANTHINI. 



Synonymy. 



X [Holobranches'\ Jngulaires, Bumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. Ill, 1806. 

 X [Solobranches] Apodes, Dumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 117, 1806. 

 X Chorizopia, Rafine:-que, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , 1815. (Suborder.) 

 X [.Tetr apodes] Jugulaires, De Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p. 



255, 1816. (Suborder.) 

 X [Apodes] De Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p. 255, 1816. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884, 



X iMalacoptery glens'] Subbranchiens, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire ed., t. 2, 



p. 211, 1817. (Tribe.) 

 X Jugulaires Malacopterygiens, Risso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe, t. 3, p. 214, 



1827. (Tribe.) 

 X Apodes, Risso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe, t. 3, p. 189, 1827. (Order.) 

 X Lotes, Oken, Lehrbuch der Naturgeschichte, 1816. 

 X Malacopterygii, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Sci., v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 36), 1832 ; Isis, 1833, 



col. 1202. 

 X SubbracJiiani {Sternopygii). Bonaparte, Giorn. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52, 



(Saggio Distrib. Method. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 



1832 ; Isis, 1833, col. 1202. 



< Malacopteryges, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 



167,197,1839. (As order.) 



< Anacanthini, Miiller, Abhand, K. Akad. Wissensch. Berlin, 1844, p. 199, 



1846. (As order. ) 



< Oadi, Bonaparte, Catalogo Metodico del Pesci Europei, pp. 5, 22, 1846, 



(As order. ) 



< Physodysti, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. Am., p. 7, 1861. (As suborder 



of Teleocephali) . 



< Anacanthini, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 317, 1862. (As 



order. ) 



<; Anacanthini, Hackel, Generelle Morphologic der Organismen, B. 2, p. 

 cxxvii, 1866, (As suborder. ) 



= Anacanthini, Gill, Arrangement Families Fishes, p. 31, 1872. (As sub- 

 order of Teleocephali. ) 



> Anacanthini, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, v. 20, p. 341, 1872. 



> Scyphohranchii, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, v. 20, p. 341, 



1872. 

 ^ Anacanthini or Jugulares, Jordan «fc Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p, 

 783, 1882, (As group or suborder,) 



Two open questions affect the constituency of the group. 



Prof, Cope, in his memorable "Observations on the systematic 

 relations of the Fishes", defined the group, which he referred to 

 his " order " Percamorphi, in the following terms : — 



1, "Anacanthini. Basis cranii simple, no tube; post-temporal 

 bifurcate ; scapular foramen between scapula and coracoid ; 

 superior pharyngeals three, horizontal, third little larger; dorsal 

 fin rays flexible, jointed. Includes the families Gadidse and 

 Macruridae^ both with isocercal caudal vertebrae," 



This definition is quite applicable to the typical Gadidae and 

 Macruridae, but there are several forms which have generally 

 been associated with them (and which have even been usually 

 considered to be more nearly allied to the Gadidse than are the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Macruridae) which do not exhibit the combination of characters 

 signalized. Such fishes have been designated as the families 

 Brotulidae, Ophidiidse, Fierasferidae, and Congrogadidee. These 

 have the characters assigned by Prof Cope to his Scyphobranchii, 

 at least as much as the genus Zoarces (referred to that group as 

 a genus of Blenniidae), but none of the genera are mentioned 

 under either title. Probably Prof. Cope had no skeletons of any 

 of the families in question. We are therefore left in doubt (1) 

 whether he would associate them with the Gadidse and Macruridae 

 and modify the characters of the including group Anacanthini,or 

 (2) whether he would refer them to the Scyphobranchii, next to 

 Zoarces and the Blenniidse generally. 



Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert, in their excellent " Synopsis of the 

 Fishes of North America," incidentally (p. 783, in a foot-note) 

 refer to the "Anacanthini or Jugulares " as a " group or suborder" 

 of Acanthopteri, and conclude the " order Acanthopteri " with 

 the series of families generally combined under the former name. 

 After having first admitted the family Brotulidse (p. 79), they 

 finally referred its constituents to the family Gadidse (p. 794), 

 admitting, however, the families Gongrogadidde (p. 790), Fieras- 

 feridse (p. 791), Ophidiidse (p. 792), and Macruridae (p. 810). 

 The question now arises whether the last thought of the eminent 

 ichthyologists is an advance on their first thought. 



A preliminary investigation into the structure of the Jugular 

 or Anacanthine fishes, leads us to different conclusions from those 

 enunciated by the several great authorities, whose views we have 

 mentioned. That lamentable inattention to anatomy, and poverty 

 of the museums in anatomical preparations and skeletons, which 

 is the opprobrium of the institutions of this country, has pre- 

 vented anything like an exhaustive examination, and will forbid 

 the rapid progress here of scientific ichthyology till the want is 

 supplied. My own small private collection, supplemented by the 

 data published by others, has alone rendered even the present 

 outline of the system of the Anacanthini possible. The details 

 will therefore have to be filled in when science shall have estab- 

 lished itself more thoroughly here, or when a citizen of a more 

 fortunate land shall take up the subject. Enough is now known, 

 however, to almost assure us that the present outline cannot be 

 far out of the way. 



13 




no PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Thanks to the kindness of my venerable friend, Prof. Poey, of 

 Havana, I obtained, many years ago, the cranium of the West 

 Indian Brotula (B. harhata) and briefly indicated the most salient 

 characteristics of the type in a foot-note to an article " Qn the 

 Affinities of several doubtful British Fishes " (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 200). The note, published in this rather 

 irregular manner, has doubtless escaped the attention of Messrs. 

 Cope, Jordan and Gilbert, for otherwise they would certainly have 

 recognized the validity of the family Brotuliidse. The type in 

 question, indeed, has but little affinity with the Gadidae, and it 

 gives me a pleasure, the greater because it is so rare, to find my- 

 self in accord with Dr. Giinther in combining it rather with the 

 Ophidiina, Fierasferina and Congrogadina, in contradistinction to 

 the Gadidae. I must, however, entirely dissent from that gentle- 

 man in considering the combination as of simply family value, in 

 associating with them the Ammodytina, and also as to the suf- 

 ficiency of the diagnosis. 



The several groups are distinguishable as follows : — 



SUPERFAMILY GADOIDEA. 



Synonymy. 



> Oadoidea, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. Am., p. 7. 1873. (Named only.) 



> Macruroidea, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. CoastN. Am., p. 7, 1873. (Named only.) 



Jugulares with the orbito-rostral portion of the cranium longer 

 than the posterior portion, the cranial cavity widely open in front ; 

 the supraoccipital well developed, horizontal and cariniform 

 behind, with the exoccipitals contracted forwards and overhung 

 by the supraoccipital, the exoccipital condyles distant and feebly 

 developed, with the hypercoracoid entire, the hypocoracoid 

 with its inferior process convergent towards the proscapula, and 

 the fenestra between the hypercoracoid and hypocoracoid. 



GADIDJE. 



Family Synonyms. 



< Jugulaires on Auchenopteres, Dumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 118, 1806. 



< Qadinia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , 3e fam., 1815. 



< Metrotomes, De Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p. 255, 1816. 

 X Gadini, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog. Siciliana, p. 11, 1810. 



< Gadoides, Risso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, pp. 104, 214, 1826. 



< Gadoides, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire ed,, 2, p. 211, 1817 ; 2e 6d., t. 2, p. 



330, 1829. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. HI 



< Oadites, Latreille, Fam. Nat. du Regne Animal, p. 125, 1825. 



< Gadites, Stark, Elements of Nat. Hist., v. 1, p. 423, 1828. 



< Oadites, McMurtrie, Cuv. Animal Kingdom, v. 2, p. 243, 1831. 



<^ OadidcB, Bonaparte, Gioin. Acead. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 

 Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1833. 



< Oadoidem, Rich, Fauna B., Americana, v. 3, p. 241, 1836. 



< Oadidm, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 188, 299, 



1839. 



< GadidcB, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 



4, p. 194, 1840. 



> BrosmiidcB, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 104, 1854. 



> Phycidm, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 104, 1854. 

 X MerluciidcB, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 104, 1854. 



> Gadidce, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 104, 1854. 



< GadtdcB, Kaup, Archiv. fiir Naturgeschichte, Jahr. 1858, B. 1, p. 86, 1858. 



< Gadidce, Girard, Expl. and Surv. for R. R. Route to Pac. Oc, v. 10, 



Fishes, p. 140, 1858. 

 X Gadoidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xxvi, 1859. 



< Gadidce, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 326, 1862. 



< Gadidce, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phlla., v. 15, p. 247, 1863. 



< Gadidce, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., v. 20, p. 341, 1872. 

 = Gadidce, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



< Gadi, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), B. 67, 1. 



Abth., p. 43. 1873. 



< Gadidce, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 400, 794, 1882. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



X Merluccia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , Ire S. fam., 1815. 



< Gadini, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1832. 



> Gadince, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 188, 299, 



1839. 

 X Merluccince, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 188, 

 800, 1839. 



> Phycince, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 188, 301, 



1839. 

 X Brosminm, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 188, 



301, 1839. 

 X Gadini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 1832, 138; t. 4. 



p. 194, 1840. 



> Lotini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; t. 4. 



p. 194, 1840. 



< GadincB, Kaup, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, Jahrg. 1858, B. 1, p. 86, 



1858. 

 X Oadiformes, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xxvi, 1859. 



> Gadince, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 15, pp. 229, 243, 248, 1863. 



> LotincB, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



> PhycincB, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863. 



> CiliatincB, Gill, Proc. Aead. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863. 



> Brosmince, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., v. 15, p. 230, 1863. 

 = Gadince, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 794, 1883. 



Gadoidea with a moderate caudal region coniform behind, and 

 with the caudal rays procurrent above and below ; submedian 

 anus, moderate suborbital bones, terminal mouth, jugular ven- 

 trals, dorsal furniture commencing nearly above the pectoral 

 region, variously developed, and anal confined mostly to the 

 posterior half of the length. 



This group is, perhaps, still a composite one, and all the forms 

 retained in it, otherwise called Gadinae by Messrs. Jordan & Gil- 

 bert, do not have the " frontal bone single, normal." The Gadiiiae, 

 Phycinse and Brosminse (Gill, op. cit.) are thus characterized, and 

 are typical constituents, but the Lotinae, and apparently Ciliatinse 

 or Oninse, have doubled or paired frontals. Unfortunately the 

 only skeletons of these types accessible to me are articulated, and 

 cannot be critically examined. It seems probable, however, that 

 they may be segregated in a peculiar family. 



MERLUCIID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



<^ Merluciidce, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 104, 1864. 



= Merludida,, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



Jugulaires, gen., Dumeril. 



Oadinia, gen., Rafinesque. 



Metrosomes, gen., Blainville. 



Qadoides, gen., Risso. 



Gadidcp, gen., Bon., Swains., Adams, Giinther, Girard. 



Qadoidei, gen., Bleeker. 



Qadi, gen., Fitzinger. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



< Merluccia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, Ire S. fam., 1815. 



<< Merluccinm, Swainson, Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and 



Reptiles, v. 2, pp. 118, 300, 1839. 

 = Merluciinm, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 14, pp. 243, 244, 1863. 

 = Merluciinm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 795, 1882. 

 Oadini, pt., Bon. 

 GadincB, pt. 



Gadoidea with a moderate caudal region coniform behind and 

 with the caudal rays procurrent forwards, the anus submedian, 

 moderate suborbital bones, terminal mouth, subjugular ventrals ; 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 173 



dorsal double, a short anterior and long posterior one, a long 

 anal corresponding to the second dorsal ; ribs wide^ approximated, 

 and channeled below or with infiected sides, and paired excavated 

 frontal bones with divergent crests continuous from the forked 

 occipital crest. 



BEEGMACEROTID^. 

 Synonymy. 



= Bregmacerotidm, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1873. 

 Blenniidos, gen., Richardson. 

 Oadidm, gen., Giinther, Day. 



Gradoidea? with a robust caudal portion truncate or convex 

 behind, almost without procurrent caudal rays above or below, 

 with an antemedian anus, moderate suborbitals, terminal mouth, 

 jugular ventrals abnormally developed ; an occipital ray, and 

 behind a continuous dorsal fin, confined to the caudal portion, 

 and an anal nearly similar to the long dorsal. 



RANICEPITID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



= New Family, Pamell, Mag. of Zool. and Bot., v. 1, p. — , 1837. (Not 



named, but indicated. ) 

 ■= Ranicepitidm, Gill, Arrangement of Fam. of Fishes, p. 3, 1873. 

 Jugulaires, gen., Dumeril. 

 Oadinea, gen., Rafinesque. 

 Oadoides, gen., Cuvier. 

 OadidcRf gen., Bonaparte, et al. 

 Gadoidea, gen., Bleeker. 

 Oadi, gen., Fitzinger. 



Subfamily Synonym. 

 = Banicepini, Bonaimite. 



Gadoidea? with a moderate caudal portion, coniform behind, 

 and with caudal rays procurrent, submedian anus, moderate sub- 

 orbital bones, terminal mouth, jugular ventrals, dorsal (typically) 

 double, an anterior small and posterior long one, anal corre- 

 sponding to second dorsal, and rudimentary pyloric caeca in 

 reduced number {2). 



MACRURID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



< LopMonotes, Dumeril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 129, 1806. 



< Trachinidi, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog. Siciliana, p. 12, 1810. 



< Cephalosomes, Blainville, Journal de Physique, t. 83, p, — , 1818. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



= LepidoUprides, Risso, Hist. Nat. cles Poissons de I'Europe Merid., t. 3, 

 p. 242, 1826. 



< Gadoides, Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ire ed., t. 2, p. 211, 1817 ; 2e ed., t. 2, 



p. 330, 1829. 

 ^= Lepidolepridm, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 



179, 261, 1839. 

 = Macru7'idcB, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 194, 1840. 

 ^= Lepidosomatidce, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 101, 1854. 



< Oadoidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel, Indico, p. xxvi, 1859. 

 = MacruridcB, Giintlier, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v., 4, p. 390, 1862. 



= Macruridm, Cope, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., v. 20, p. 341, 1872. 



= MacruridoR, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



^ Macrouri, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), B. 



67, 1. Abth., p. 43, 1873. 

 = MacruridcB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 400, 810, 1882. 

 Oadinia, gen., Rafinesque, 1815. 

 Oadidw, s. fam., Bonaparte, 1832. 

 Gadoidei, s. fam., Bleeker. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



< TracMnia, Rafinesque, Analyse de la Nature, p. — , 2e s. fam., 1815. 



= Macrourini, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 52 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Sangue Freddo, p. 37), 1832. 

 = Macrurini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 132, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 194, 1840. 

 = Macrurini, Kaup, Archiv fiir Naturgescbichte, Jahrg. 1858, B. 1, p. 86, 



1858. 

 = Macrouriformes, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xxvi, 



1859. 



Gadoidea with an elongated tail tapering backwards and 

 destitute of a caudal fin, postpectoral anus, enlarged suborbital 

 bones, inferior mouth, subbrachial ventrals, a distinct anterior 

 dorsal, and a long second dorsal and anal converging on end of 

 tail. 



The several families thus defined are certainly, or in the case 

 of the Ranicepitids and Bregmacerotids, presumably typical Ana- 

 canthines, and exhibit the cranial and scapular characteristics 

 signalized for the superfamily Gadoidea. The group thus defined 

 is quite a natural one and perhaps may be deemed worthy of 

 continued isolation under the name Anacanthini or Jugulares, 

 although the propriety of assigning to it subordinal rank is very 

 doubtful. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1*75 



How very different the other forms approximated to the group 

 are, may be appreciated from the following diagnoses. 



SUPERPAMILY OPHIDIOIDEA. 



Synonymy. 



> Brotuloidea, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. Am., p. 7, 1873. (Named 



only.) 



> OpMdioidea, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. Am., p. 7, 1873. (Named 



only.) 



Jugulares with the orbito-rostral portion of the cranium con- 

 tracted and shorter than the posterior, the cranial cavity closed 

 in part by the expansion and junction of the parasphenoid and 

 frontals, the supraoccipital horizontal and cariniform poste- 

 riorly, the exoccipitals expanded backwards and upwards behind 

 the supraoccipital, the exoccipital condyles contiguous, and with 

 the hypercoracoid (scapula, Parker) fenestrate (or foraminate) 

 about its centre, and the hypocoraeoid with its inferior process 

 divergent from the proscapula. 



These characters are exhibited in the Brotula barbata (specimen 

 in coll. T. G.), Brosmojyfiycis marginatus (MSS. note), Pteridium 

 ater (cranium behind, Emery, ^ f. 21), Ophidium barbatum 

 (cranium above, E., f. 26 ; scapular arch, E., f. 44), Fierasfer acus 

 (cranium, E., f. 18-22; scapular arch, E., f. 35-36), Echiodon 

 dentatus (cranium, E., f. 23-25 ; scapular arch, E., f 37-38), and 

 Encheliophis vei'micularis (scapular arch, E.,^ f. 39). The 

 osteology of the Congrogadidae and Brotulophididse is entirely 

 unknown and it is only assumed that they belong to this group 

 on account of general agreement in superficial characters. 



BROTULTD^. 



Synonyms as Family Names. 



= Brotulidm, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 104, 1854. 



< Brotuloidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xxv, 1859, 



= Brotuloidm, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 15], p. 253, 1863. 



1 The references indicated by "E.," are to Prof. Emery's excellent memoir 

 on "Fierasfer" in the Atti della R. Accademia dei Lincei " 1879-80 (pp. 

 167-254, pi. la-9a,. How useful and indeed indispensable this memoir 

 has been may be judged from the references. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



= Brotuloids, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. [v. 16], p. 200, 1864 (cra- 

 nial characters indicated). 

 -^ BrotulidcB, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



Gadoides, gen., Cuvier, 

 OadidcB, gen., Bonaparte. 

 Ophidiidm, s. fam., Giinther. 

 Gadi, gen., Fitzinger, 

 Gadidm, s. fam., Jordan & Gilbert. 



Synonyms as Subfamily Ncemes. 



= Brotulinm, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 188, 

 301, 1839. 



< BrotuUna, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 371, 1862. (Defined.) 



> Brotulince, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 14], p. 280, 1863 ; [v. 



15], p. 252. (Defined.) 



> Brosmophycince, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 14, ] p. 280, 1868 ; 



[v, 15], pp. 252, 253, 1863. 



> BythitincB, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 14], p. 280, 1863; [v. 



15], p. 253, 1863. 



> SirembincB, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. [v. 14], p. 280, 1863; [v. 



15], p. 253, 1863. 

 << Brotulini, Emery, Atti R. Accad. dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1880. 



< Brotulinm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am. , p. 794, 1882. 



Ophidoidea with jugular ventrals reduced to one or two rays, 

 and the anus in the anterior half of the length. 



This family is quite rich in deep-sea types, and may be divided 

 into various subfamilies, four of which (Brotulinse, Brosmophy- 

 cinae, Bythitinse, and Sirembina^) have already been indicated and 

 defined (see sj^nonymy). The deep-sea forms chiefly belong to 

 the subfamily Brosmophycinse, and perhaps one or two still undif- 

 ferentiated ones whose definition is not at present possible. 



BROTULOPHIDID^. 



Synonymy. 



= Brotulophididm, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 

 Ophidiidm {BrotuUna), gen., Giinther. 



Ophidioidea with subbrachial (or thoracic) ventrals reduced to 

 simple filaments, and anus in the anterior half of the length. 



The single genus Brotulophis, for which this family has been 

 distinguished, is still very imperfectly known, and its aflSnities 

 are doubtful. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ITT 



OPHIDIID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



< Pantopteres, Dum^ril, Zoologie Analytique, p. 115, 1806. 

 <^ Ofidini, Rafinesque, Indice d'lttiolog. Siciliana, p. 38, 1810. 



< Ophididw, Bonaparte, Giom. Accad. di Scienze, v. 53 (Saggio Distrib. 



Metod. Animali Vertebr. a Saiigue Freddo, p. 38), 1832. 

 ■< OpMdiidm, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t. 2, p. 133, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 276, 1840. 

 <l OphidontdcB, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, pp. 49, 



259,1 1839. 



< OphidiidcB, Adams, Manual Nat. Hist., p. 105, 1854. 



< OpMdinoB, Kaup, Cat. Apodal Fish. B. M., p. 153, 1856. 



< Ophididw, Rich, Encycl. Brit., 8th ed., v. 12, p. 268, 1856. 



< Ophididce, Girard, Expl. and Surv. for R. R. Route to Pacific Oc, v. 10, 



Fishes, p. 137, 1858. 

 <^ Ophidioidei, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Pisciuni Aichipel. Indico, p. xxv, 1859. 



< Ophidiidce, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 370, 1862. 

 = Ophidiidce, Gill, Arrangement Fam. of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



= Ophidiidce, Putnam, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 16. p. 339, 1874, 



< Ofidiidei, Emery, Atti R. Accad. dei Lincei (3), Fis.Mem., v. 3, p. 168, 



1880. 

 •-= Ophididce, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., pp. 400, 792, 1882. 



Anguilliformes, gen., Cuvier. 

 Xiphoides, gen., Risso, 1826. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



< Ophidiini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., t, 2, p. 133, 1838 ; 



t. 4, p. 276, 1840. 



< Ophidince, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 2, p. 260, 1839. 

 <C Ophidiiformes, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xxv, 



1859. 

 = Ophidiina, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 376, 1863. 

 = Ofidiina, Emery, Atti R. Accad. dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1873. 



Ophidioidea with chin ventrals, represented by bifid barbel- 

 like filaments, and the anus in the anterior half of the length. 



This family is well-marked by- the encroachment of the ventrals 

 forwards under the chin and between the rami of the mandible, 

 on which account the species were supposed to have barbels 



' At p. 49, regarded as one of the "Families of the Gymnetres ; at p. 159 

 as the 4. subfamily ^^Ophidoninae " of the "tribe Gymnetres" (family not 

 differentiated), and at p. 259, mentioned as "3. subf^m. Ophidonidae." 




1*78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



analogous to those of the Mullids and to be destitute of ventrals. 

 Their homology was not even recognized by those who studied 

 their anatomy. Prof. Agassiz, for instance, in his Recherches sur 

 les Poissons fossiles, representing them as apodal. 



There are three or four genera, Ophidium, Genypterus, and 

 Leptophidium. 



Leptophidium^ although recognized as a mere subgenus by 

 Messrs. Jordan & Gilbert, is very distinct. 



FIERASFERID^E. 



Family Synonyms. 



<^ Oinnotini, Rafincsque, Indice, d'lttiolog. Siciliani, p. 37, 1810. 

 = FierasferidoE, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1864, p. 203, 1864. 

 ^ Fierasferidm, Gill, Arrangement Fam. of Fishes, p. 3, 1873. 



> Fierasferi, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch., v. 67, 



1. Abth., p. 43, 1873. 



> Fnchelyophes, Fitzinger, Sitzimgsber. K. Akad. der Wissenscli., v. 67, 



1. Abth., p. 4:!, 1873. 

 = Flerasferidoe, Putnam, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 16, p. 339, 1874. 

 = Merasferidos, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., pp. 400, 791, 1883, 



Ophidiidw, gen., Bon. 



OpMdioidei ophidiiformes, gen., Blkr. 



Ophidiidm, s.-fam., Giintber. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 

 = Fierasferina, Giintber, Cat. Fishes in Brit. Mus., v.- 4, pp. 370, 381, 



1863. 

 = Fierasferini, Emery, Atti R. Accad. dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1873. 



Ophidioidea without ventrals, and with the anus thoracic or 

 jugular. 



CONGROGADID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



= CongrogadidoB, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



< CongrogadidiP, .Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes of N. Am., p. 790, 1883 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



< Gongrogadime, Giintber, Cat. Fishes in Brit. Mus., v. 4, pp. 370, 388, 



1862. 



< Congrogadini, Emery, Atti R. Accad. dei Lincei (3), v. 7, p. 168, 1873. 



Ophidioidea without ventrals, the anus in the anterior half of 

 the length, and branchial membranes imited beneath but free 

 from the throat. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



The family is perhaps composite and lias been constituted or 

 retained for three genera ( Congrogadus = Machserium, Halio- 

 phis, and Scytalina) which may prove to have little or no affinity 

 to each other. It is entirely provisional and must remain of very 

 uncertain value till the forms can be anatomically investigated. 

 It is only by an assumption, perhaps, if not probably illegitimate, 

 that Haliophis has been referred to the group. " Riippell says 

 'Apertura branehialis parva,' " but Dr. GUnther, "by a comparison 

 of the figure " was " induced to suppose that, as in Congrogadus, 

 the gill-opening is of moderate width, the gill-membranes being 

 united below the throat, and not attached to the isthmus."^ 

 I should not have been induced, b^^ the figure to make any such 

 assumption, for the likeness to Congrogadus is very slight. The 

 single specimen of Scytalina in the National Museum cannot be 

 dissected. 



SuPERPAMii.Y LYCODOIDEA. 

 Synonymy. 



= Lycodoidea, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. Am,, p. 7, 1873. (Named 

 only.) 



Jugulares with the orbito-rostral portion of the cranium con- 

 tracted and shorter than the posterior, the cranial cavity open in 

 front, but bounded laterally by expansions of the annectant 

 parasphenoid and frontals, with the supraoccipital declivous and 

 tectiform behind, the occipitals above inclined forward along the 

 sides of the supraoccipital, and the exoccipital condyles distant, 

 with the hypercoracoid foraminate about its centre and the hypo- 

 coracoid with an inferior process convergent to the proscapula.^ 



These characters are formulated from a skeleton of Zoarces 

 anguillaris in the possession of the writer. 



LYCODID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



X ZoarcMdce, Swainson, Nat. Hist, and Class. Fishes, etc., v. 3, pp. 184, 



283, 1839. 

 > Lycodidw, Giintlier, Cat. Fishes Biit. Mus., v. 4, p. 319, 1862. 

 = Lycodoidce, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci Phila., v. 15, p. 2.15, 1863 (De- 

 fined) ; V. 16, p. 203, 1864. (Cranial characters indicated.) 



1 Giinther, Cat. Fishes in Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 389. 



"^ The nostrils are single on each side as in many Blennioidea. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



^ LycodidcE, Gill, Arrangement Fara. of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



> Zoarcce., Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. k. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), B. 67, 



1. Abth., p. 43, 1873. 

 OacUdce and Ophidini, pt., Reinhardt. 

 Blennioidei and OpMdoidei, pt., Bleeker. 

 Blennioidce, pt., Gill, Kroyer. 

 Lycodidm and BlenniidoB, gen., Giinther. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



> QymneUncB, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., v. 15, pp. 256, 261, 1863. 



> Zoardnce, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N, Am., p. 783, 1882. 



> Lycodinm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 783, 1882. 



= Lycodidti', Collett, Norske Nordhavs-Exped. 1876-78 ; Fiske, p. 77, 1880. 

 = ZoarcidcB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 400, 1882. 

 = Lycodidcf, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 783, 1882. 



Lycodoidea of a more or less anguilliform shape, tapering back- 

 wards ; dorsal and anal elongated and confluent with caudal, 

 invested in a thick skin; ventrals jugular and rudimentary or 

 suppressed, and branchial apertures lateral and not confluent. 



The chief group of this family, or the subfamily Lycodinae, is 

 a chai"acteristic deep-sea type, and represented by many species 

 varying greatly in elongation, and with the extreme terms tolerably 

 well connected by graduated representatives. Nevertheless, the 

 two sections of Lycodes, defined by Prof. Collett (op. cit., p. 84), 

 seem to be entitled to generic rank, and corroborated by other 

 species obtained by the TJ, S. Commission of Fish and Fishei-ies. 

 The name Ly codes must be retained for the robust species, while 

 Lycenchelys may be used as a designation for Collett's second 

 group which have " the body elongate ;" height of the body con- 

 tained from twelve to twenty -four times in the total length. The 

 genera would then be Lycodes, Lycenchelys, Lycodopsis, Lyco- 

 donus, and Lycocara (= Uronectes, Gthr.). 



In the preceding diagnoses of the superfamilies Gadoidea, 

 Ophidioidea and Lycodoidea, little more is given than what may 

 serve to neatly differentiate the several groups, but the charac- 

 ters given are reinforced by many others, such as the cranial 

 foramina, details in the relations of the bones, and characters of 

 the vertebrae. The relations of the Brotuloidea appear to be 

 almost as intimate, if not indeed more so, with the Lycodoidea 

 than with the Gadoidea. But a comparison of the cranium of a 

 Lycodid with that of a Blenniid, must convince the ichthyotomist 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



that there is a close affinity between the two. Indeed, it is quite 

 possible, at least, that Prof. Cope might retain his diagnosis of 

 the Anacanthini, and refer the Brotuloid families to his Scj^pho- 

 branchii by the side of Zoarces and his other Blenniidse. Prof. 

 Emery has also perceived the great differences exhibited in 

 cranial characters by the Ophidioidea from the Gadoidea and has 

 even contended that they should be approximated to the Gobioi- 

 dea.^ In view of these facts, it is evident that the group of 

 Anacanthini not only has a very uncertain tenure, but it may 

 have either to be entirelj' abolished as being an unnatural combi- 

 nation of different types, or to be limited to the Gadoidea. 



But it is possible that the group as retained by the most recent 

 ichthyologists may be even more heterogeneous than has been 

 supposed. Several other types have been generally associated 

 with the forms already indicated, but the pertinence of the Amrao- 

 dytidae,^ Ateleopodidae and Xenocephalidse to it is doubtful, 

 and it is almost certain that the Gadopsidas are not at all 

 related to any of the families already discussed ; nevertheless, to 

 complete the summary of the families generally referred to the 

 Anacanthini, their synonymy and characteristics are here given : — 



AMMODYTID^. 



Family Synonyms, 



= Ammodytidm, Bonaparte, Catal. Metod. Pesci Europei, pp. 7, 40, 1846. 



= Ammodytidm, Gill, Arrangement of Famines of Fishes, p. 8, ]872. 



= Ammodytm, Fitzinger, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. der Wissensch. (Wien), 



B. 67, 1. Abth., p. 43, 1873. 

 = Ammodytidm, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 414, 1883. 



Oadidce, s. fam., Bonaparte. 

 Coryphienidie, gen., Swainson. 

 Ophidioidei, s. fam., Bleeker, 

 s. fam., Giinther. 



' "Attenendomi ai risultati delle mie ricerche anatomiche, io debbo, tra 

 le due opinion!, adottare quella del Canestrini e considerare gli Ofidiidei 

 come aflfini di Gobioidi, coi quali hanno caratteri comuni assai importanti, 

 in ispecie nella struttura del cranio." Emery, op. cit., p. 169 ; see also p. 

 187. 



^ The only skeleton at present accessible to me, has been so badly pre- 

 pared that I do not venture to base any opinion upon it. I hope soon to 

 have a clean disarticulated one. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Subfamily Synonyms. 



= Ammodytini, Bonaparte, Nuovi Annali delle Sci. Nat., p. 133, 1838 ; t, 



4, p. 276, 1840. 

 = Ammodyteiformes, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel, Indico, p. xxvj 



1859. 

 =: Ammodytina, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, p. 384, 1862 r 

 = Ammodytince, Gill, Cat. Fishes E, Coast N. A., p. 40, 1861. 

 > Argyrotcenince, Gill, Cat. Fishes E. Coast N. A., p. 40, 1861. 



Anacanthini ? with an elongated, almost parallelogram mic body, 

 with a dorsal lateral line, postmedian anus, narrow suborbitals, 

 terminal mouth with protractile jaws, enlarged suboperculum, 

 widely cleft branchial apertures, lamelliform pseudobranchise, a 

 long dorsal and long but postmedian anal with articulated rays, 

 low pectorals and no ventrals. 



ATELEOPODIDiE. 



Synonyms as Family Names. 



= Ateleoiyodoidei, Bleeker, Envim. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. xxvi, 

 1859. (Not defined ; made the type of a distinct order — "Ateleopodi — 

 au forte cum Siluris adjungendi.") 



= Ateleopodid(e, Giinther, Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, pp. 318, 398, 1862. 



= Ateleopodidce, Gill, Arrangement Families of Fishes, p. 3, 1872. 



Synonym as Subfamily Name. 

 = Ateleopodini) Bonaparte, 1850. 



Anacanthini ? with an elongated tail tapering backwards, but 

 provided with a narow caudal, antemedian anus, moderate subor- 

 bitals, inferior mouth, thoracic ventrals reduced to double or 

 simple filaments, a short anterior dorsal only, and a long oval 

 continuous with the caudal. 



XENOCEPHALID^. 



Synonyms. 



= Xenocephaliformes, Bleeker, Enum. Sp. Piscium Archipel. Indico, p. 



xxvi, 1859. 

 = Appendix to the Anacanthini Gadoidei, Giinther, Cat. Fishes in Brit. 



Mus., V. 4, pp. 318, 399, 1862. 

 Gadoidei, s. fam., Bleeker. 



Anacanthini? with a "small body," a distinct caudal, post- 

 median anus ; head very large, truncated, cuirassed with plates 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



and armed with spines; jugular? ventrals of five rays and one 

 short dorsal, and a short anal, both near the caudal. 



Two other types referred by Dr. Giinther to the Anacanthini 

 certainly do not belong to the group and are true Acanthopter}'- 

 gian fishes. They are the Gadopsidge and Chiasmodontidae. 



GADOPSIDJE. 



Synonymy. 



= Oadopsida, Giinther, Cat. Pishes Brit. Mus., v. 4, pp. 317, 318, 1862. 

 < OadopsidcB, Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., v. 13, p. 31, 1873. 

 BlenniidcB, gen., Steindachner. 



CHIASMODONTID^. 



Family Synonyms. 



= Chiasmodontidae, Gill, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N. Am., p. 964 



1882. (Defined.) 

 QadidcB, gen., Giintlier. 



Subfamily Synonym. 



= OMasmodontincB, Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fishes N Am., p. 795, 1882. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



June 24. 



Dr. W. S. W. RuscHENBERQER in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on the Geology and Natural History 

 of the West Coast of Florida," by Jos. Willcox, was presented 

 for publication. 



Some Modifications observed in the Form of Sponge Spicules. — 

 Mr. Edw. Potts remarked that whatever view we may prefer to take 

 as to the position which sponges occupy in the animal kingdom 

 — whether they are regarded as colonial flagellate monads with 

 Saville Kent, or with Haekel take a much higher place among the 

 metazoa, or perhaps, with still greater probabilit}', fill an inter- 

 mediate place between these, the formation and development 

 of the spiculas in both the Calearea and Silicea seem likely to 

 remain for a long time one of the most perplexing problems. 

 Many terms of this conundrum will readily occur to the mind of 

 any one who has worked in this field and observed the spiculae 

 from their earliest appearance to full maturity, and it is not the 

 design of the present communication to refer to them now more 

 particularly. 



An instance, however, in which a singular modification of 

 character has apparently been effected by the chemical condition 

 of the environment seems deserving of mention. Amongst the 

 sponges to which he had alluded in former communications as 

 encrusting certain old pipes, recently removed from the water- 

 works on the Schuylkill River, in Philadelphia, some portions 

 were much more deeply colored with rust than the others ; the 

 statoblasts, particularly, seeming to be mere pseudoraorphs of 

 their originals in iron oxide. Fragments of this character were 

 boiled in nitric acid, washed out and mounted for comparison 

 with other matter similarh' treated, but free from such dis- 

 coloration. 



The mature normal skeleton spicule of this sponge, Meyenia 

 Leidyi, is smooth, robust and shorter than that of any other 

 American species. Yer}'' rarely the fine line of the axial channel 

 is visible, but in the specimen under examination the size and 

 exterior appearance of the spiculse remaining as before, the hardly 

 noticeable channel has become a wide canal, open at both ends, 

 and occupying more than one-half the breadth of the spicule. 

 This does not occur merely in occasional instances, but universally 

 throughout the fragment of sponge so aflfected. (See fig. 5, 

 Plate IV.) 



The birotulate spicules of this sponge also arc short and of a 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 185 



peculiarly substantial appearance, with entire reflexed margins, 

 yet in the present preparation they could with difficulty be 

 detected as mere ghosts of their normal shapes. The two discs 

 rarely remained together, their characteristic entire margins were 

 gone, the rotules being represented merely by a line of very fine 

 rays. The speaker ventured no suggestion as to the influences or 

 the method by which these changes had been efiected, but referred 

 the fact to the consideration of students more competent to deal 

 with the mechanical and chemical constitution of these bodies. 



Lieut. Thos. L. Casey, Eng. Corps, U. S. A., was elected a 

 member. 



July 1. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " On a supposed new species of Cristatella," 

 by Edw. Potts, was presented for publication. 



Volcanic Dust from Krakatoa. — Prof. H. Carvill Lewis 

 remarked that in connection with the cause of the beautiful red 

 sunsets of last autumn and winter, which had been recently the 

 subject of much discussion in the scientific periodicals, he had 

 been interested in examining some volcanic dust which had been 

 ejected from the volcano of Krakatoa, and which he had received 

 through the kindness of Rev. Wayland Hoyt,D. D., of this city. 



This dust, which, on August 27, 1883, fell thickly upon the 

 decks, rigging and masts of the bark William H. Besse, bound 

 from Batavia to Boston, is of a light gi'ay color and harsh to the 

 touch. It is essentially a pulverized pumice, by far the greater 

 part of it consisting of fragments of volcanic glass. These 

 fragments are sometimes twisted, but generally in flat angular 

 transparent scales, which are filled with minute bubbles, and, of 

 course, are isotropic. Angular fragments and crystals of trans- 

 parent plagioclase, occasionally showing the hemitropic striations, 

 and giving bright colors in the polai'iscope, together with more 

 irregular and rounded fragments of dark green and brown 

 pyroxenic minerals, probably augite and h^persthene, are scat- 

 tered very occasionally among the glass particles. Grains of 

 magnetite, often well rounded, also occur, and may be picked 

 out and examined separately by a magnet covered with tissue- 

 paper. 



As it is this dust which is regarded as tlie cause of the uni- 

 versal red skies wliich followed so soon after the eruption, 

 attempts have been made, both in Europe and America, to dis- 

 cover traces of it in snow or elsewhere, 



13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



In the suburbs of Philadelphia, some dust was collected by 

 Mr. Joseph Wharton,^ this winter, from melted snow, and from 

 the presence in it of certain rounded and filamentous glass par- 

 ticles supposed by him to be volcanic. Some of it had been 

 submitted by him to the speaker for examination. It appeared 

 to be composed of particles of quartz, coal, cinders, vegetable 

 matter, etc., among which are certain glassy hairs and rounded 

 globules. These bear no resemblance to the angular glass frag- 

 ments composing the Krakatoa dust, which is remarkably free 

 from either filaments or globules ; and the supposed volcanic 

 glass particles in the Philadelphia dust are most probably of local 

 origin — from blast-furnaces, foundries, or the like. 



Accompanying the specimens of dust from Krakatoa, were 

 extracts from the log of the bark, which present several points 

 of interest. A point of special importance is the record of a 

 sudden barometric fluctuation, due to a great atmospheric wave, 

 which, starting from the volcano at the time of the eruption, has 

 been shown to have " traveled no less than three and a quarter 

 times round the whole circumference of the earth." ^ 



Extracts from log of hark William H. Besse, from B ataxia 

 towards Boston. 



'■'■Aug. 26. This day commences with light airs and calms. 

 Light airs throughout the day. At 5.30 P. M., wind hauling 

 ahead, let go starboard anchor with thirty fathoms chain, clewed 

 up and furled all sail. Adam light bore W. 1-4 S. and E. by S. 

 Throughout the afternoon and night heard heavy reports, like 

 the discharge of heavy artillerj^, sounding in the direction of 

 Java Island. Yery dark and cloudy throughout the night, with 

 continual flashes of lightning. Barometer 30.15. 



"■Aug. 27. Commences with strong breezes, and thick, cloudy 

 weather. Barometer 30.12. At 9.30 A. M., pilot left ship. Hove 

 the lead every fifteen minutes. At daylight noticed a heavy bank 

 to the westward which continued to rise ; and, the sun becoming 

 obscured, it commenced to grow dark. The barometer fell sud- 

 denly to 29.50, and suddenly rose to 30.60. Called all hands, 

 furled everything securely, and let go the port anchor with all 

 the chain in the locker. By this time the squall struck us with 

 terrific force, and we let go starboard anchor with eighty fathoms 

 chain. With the squall came a heavy shower of sand and ashes, 

 and it had become by this time darker than the darkest night. 

 The barometer continued to rise and fall an inch at a, time. The 

 wind was blowing a hurricane, but the water kept very smooth. 

 A heavy rumbling, with reports like thunder, was heard con- 

 tinually ; and the sky was lit up with fork lightning running in 

 all directions, while a strong smell of sulphur pervaded the air, 



^ See his letter in Public Ledger, Jan. 23, 1884. 

 ^ Nature, vol. xxx, p. 12. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 187 



making it difficult to breathe. Altogether, it formed one of the 

 wildest and most awful scenes imaginable. 



The tide was setting strong to the westward throughout the 

 gale, at the rate of ten knots per hour. At 3 P. M. the sky 

 commenced to grow lighter, although the ashes continued to fall. 

 The barometer rose to 30.30, and dropped graduall}^ to 30.14, 

 when it became stationary. The whole ship, rigging and masts, 

 were covered with sand and ashes to the depth of several inches. 



^'■Aug. 28. Commences with light airs and thick, smoky weather. 

 Hove up starboard anchor, and hove short on port anchor. Dead 

 calm throughout the day and night. Saw large quantities of 

 trees and dead fishes floating by with the tide ; the water having 

 a whitish appearance, and covered with ashes. This day ends 

 with a dead calm, and thick, smoky weather. 



'''•Aug. 29. This day commences with calms, and thick, smoky 

 weather. Made all sail throughout the day. Moderate winds, 

 and thick, smoky weather. Passed large quantities of driftwood, 

 cocoanuts, and dead fishes. At 8 P. M., passed Anjier, and could 

 see no light in the lighthouse, and no signs of life on shore. 

 Furled all light sails, and stood under easy sail throughout the 

 night. Day ends with moderate winds and cloudy weather. 

 Barometer 30.14. 



'■''Aug. SO. Commences with moderate winds and cloudy 

 weather. At daylight made all sail with a fresh breeze from the 

 westward. Found the water for miles filled with large trees and 

 driftwood, it being almost impossible to steer clear of them. 

 Also passed large numbers of dead bodies and fish. Kept a 

 sharp lookout on the forecastle throughout the day. At 10 A. M., 

 sighted Java Head lighthouse ; but the wind hauling ahead, we 

 kept away, and went round Prince Island. Latter part, fresh 

 breezes and thick, smoky weather. Frida}^ and Saturday, passed 

 large quantities of ashes in the water. Saturday, crew employed 

 in cleaning ashes off masts and rigging. Water had a green 

 color." 



July 8. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Catalogue of Sponges collected by Mr. Jos. 

 Willcox on the West Coast of Florida," by Henry J. Carter, was 

 presented for publication. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




188 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY AND NATUKAL HISTORY OF THE WEST COAST 



OF FLORIDA. 



BY JOSEPH WILLCOX. 



The following notes apply especially to the Counties of Levy 

 and Hernando in Florida. That portion of the Peninsula consists 

 of a fine grained limestone composed largely of foraminifera, 

 several species of which have been determined by Prof. Heilprin. 

 The limestone is covered with sand, in some places with a thin 

 layer only, while, at other localities, wells sunk to the depth of 

 25 or 30 feet have failed to indicate the presence of rocks. In 

 many places the rocks are exposed above the surface of the 

 ground. They are hard and compact when dry ; but, when they 

 are permanently wet, they are comparatively soft, and are eroded 

 with facility. In fact, throughout a large portion of the State 

 numerous and long subterranean caverns abound, that serve as 

 aqueducts to convey the water supplying the many large springs, 

 for which this territory is noted. 



The subsidence of the surface ground into these caverns has 

 caused many sink-holes. Three miles south of Gainesville, within 

 a space of less than 100 acres, nearly fifty funnel-shaped sink- 

 holes exist, from 20 to 200 feet in diameter at the top, and from 

 10 to 50 feet deep. 



These are near to Payne's Prairie, a lake covering a space of 

 about forty square miles. This lake has no outlet, and its surface 

 rises and falls, as is usual in such cases, according to the 

 abundance or scarcity of rain. 



It covers an area that was dry land a few years ago. The 

 creek, which now supplies water to it, formerly flowed into a sink 

 hole near those mentioned above. This creek undoubtedly was 

 the active agent in eroding the caverns into which the material 

 formerly occupying the space where the sink-holes now exist 

 was precipitated. Some sink-holes are large and the subsidence 

 moderate. Examples of the latter case may be seen in numerous 

 shallow ponds and cypress swamps. Many large lakes probably 

 owe their existence to the same cause. 



The limestone is, in some localities, replaced by a chert rock, 

 in which the casts of shells are still visible. This rock forms the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



only material suitable for the manufacture of stone implements, 

 that the writer has seen in Florida. 



The coast is fringed with a strip of land four to six miles wide 

 that is low, level and rocky, from Cedar Keys to Anclote Key, 

 seventy-five miles farther south. 



A large portion of this land is swampy ; and much of it is 

 covered with water, when the tide is unusually high ; while the 

 highest portion of it is only 3 or 4 feet above the level of high 

 water. 



It is covered with a shallow, rich soil, which sustains a dense 

 growth of hard wood, in addition to many palmetto and red 

 cedar trees. 



At a distance of from eight to twelve miles apart small rivers 

 empty into the Gulf. They have their sources chiefly in large 

 springs, which are supplied by long, subterranean caverns. They 

 have cut crooked channels through the limestone rocks, not only 

 on the mainland, but through the shoals to the deep water of the 

 Gulf. 



These rocks, the foundation of the mainland, extend westward 

 under the water of the Gulf of Mexico ; and for the distance of 

 several miles from the shore great shoals exist ; making navigation 

 impracticable, except for small vessels. At low tide the rocks 

 are exposed to view in numerous instances, far from shore. In 

 fact such a great number of low islands exist along the coast, 

 separated from each other by shallow bays and creeks, that it is 

 difficult to determine what should be classed as the shore line. 



Many of these islands are overflown with water at high tide. 

 In such cases they are covered with mud : those nearest to the 

 sea usually sustaining a dense growth of mangrove trees ; while 

 others nearer the mainland are covered with saw-grass and bull- 

 rushes. 



A soft and unctious mud covers the bottom to the depth of a 

 few inches in the shoal water ; and an abundance of sea weeds 

 thrives there. These afl"ord shelter to vast numbers of mollusks, 

 crustaceans and worms, to the life of which those waters are well 

 adapted. 



The coast undoubtedly extended much farther into the Gulf, at 

 a time not very remote. On the bottom of the shoals and rivers, 

 and along the shores, the limestone rocks are eroded in a very 

 rough and uneven manner. No smooth surfaces are to be seen : 




190 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



nothing but sharp, unsightly projections, depressions and deep 

 holes. Along the rivers the waves make mam'- small caverns 

 xmder the shore. 



East of the narrow, rocky belt, lining the shore, the land is 

 sandy and rises to the height of about 200 feet at a distance of 

 from twelve to twenty miles from the coast. The highest land 

 near the coast is at Moiint Lee, in Hernando Co., twelve miles from 

 the Gulf, and four miles east of the source of the Homosassa River. 



The summit of this hill is 200 feet above the sea, and it 

 terminates abruptly, on the west side, in a rocky bluff 100 feet 

 high. From the top an extensive view may be obtained of the 

 surrounding country, an opportunity seldom afforded in middle 

 and southern Florida. Under this hill are several caverns which 

 have not been opened for exploration ; but the noise from falling 

 stones indicates a considerable depth in them. A rib of a manatee 

 has latel}^ been dug from the soil in a small cave in the side of 

 the hill. The limestone at this place is hard and fine grained ; 

 and if found to be free from fissures, it will prove to be a desirable 

 building stone. The surface of this rock is rugged and unsightly ; 

 having been eroded in the usual, uneven manner. 



About five miles northeast of Mount Lee the writer discovered a 

 second locality of Nummulites Willcoxi^ at an altitude of nearly 

 200 feet above the sea. They are associated with Orbitoides and 

 Heterostegina and Pecten, as determined by Prof. Heilprin. 



The shore of the Gulf of Mexico abounds with multitudes of 

 shells of king-crabs, suggestive of a great mortality among them. 

 At low tide the writer found one king-crab lying upon its back 

 with Fasciolaria tulipa on top of it, eating its vitals. Near by 

 was found another lying on its back, upon which were 25 mollusks 

 (Melongena corona) eating it. 



In Clearwater Harbor, north of Tampa Bay, the sea-urchins, 

 during the first week in April, are covered with shells arranged 

 upon them with system and dexterity, so that they are obscured 

 from view. 



Prof. Leidy, when informed of this habit, suggested that it 

 might have some connection with the process of spawning. This 

 suggestion is plausible, as in the same waters in January, though 

 abundant, none of them were found to be covered with any 

 material. Prof. A. Agassiz ^ states that " the sea-ui'chins, in 



' Sec Seaside Studies in Nat. History, page 101. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Boston Harbor, have a habit of covering themselves with sea- 

 weeds, packing it down snugly above them, as if to avoid observa- 

 tion : and this habit makes them difficult to find." In Clearwater 

 Harbor the white shells, with which the sea-urchins cover them- 

 selves, make a conspicuous object, so that the animal underneath 

 can easily be found. They evidently do not seek concealment 

 from an enemy, as the seaweeds would more effectually accom- 

 plish that object. 



The shell mounds of the west coast are very numerous ; and 

 they indicate the former favorite camping grounds of the Indians. 



The largest accumulation of shells is at Cedar Keys. A portion 

 of that town is built upon the mound ; and great quantities of the 

 material, consisting almost exclusively of oyster shells, have been 

 used in grading the streets. 



Oysters are very abundant and of good size in the vicinity of 

 Cedar Keys, and along the coast as far as forty-five miles farther 

 south. The following small rivers flow into the Gulf of Mexico 

 near the oyster beds : — Wakasassa, Withlacooche, Crystal River, 

 Little Homosassa, Homosassa and Cheeshowiska. 



Near the outlets of these rivers are numerous small islands, 

 too low to be habitable, except when elevated by artificial means. 

 At each river the Indians selected an island for their camping 

 ground, to which they carried oysters ; the shells, in the course of 

 a long time, making large mounds. Human bones, stone imple- 

 ments and fragments of pottery are frequently found among the 

 shells. 



Prof. Wyman, having examined many fresh-water shell mounds, 

 on and near the St. John's River, states in the Memoirs of the 

 Peabody Academy of Science, vol. i, No. 4, 1875, on page 49, 

 that " Stone chips are not common, and were generally found 

 separately, or only a few together ; but in no instance in collec- 

 tions indicating a place for the manufacture of arrow heads or 

 other implements." Such a place for the manufacture of stone 

 implements may be seen on John's Island at the mouth of the 

 Cheeshowiska River. Having visited this island mound several 

 times, the writer has found there at least a half bushel of stone 

 implements, in the various stages of manufacture ; and at the 

 present time many bushels of the stone chips may be seen there, 

 all made of the chert rock referred to above. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



On this island may also be found shell implements of several 

 patterns, made from the shells of Busy con pyrum. 



The stone implements found there are similar to those figured 

 on Plate II, in the Memoir referred to, and the shell implements 

 are similar to those on Plate VII of the same. Near Dwight's 

 Landing, on the shore of Clearwater Harbor, is an Indian mound 

 composed chiefly of the shells of Busycon pyrum and Fasciolaria 

 tulipa; the former greatly predominating in numbers. Nearly 

 all of these shells have a hole in the side near the top, about 

 three-quarters of an inch in diameter, all neatly and uniformly 

 made. 



It is presumed that the animal was detached from the shell by 

 the Indians, by means of an instrument inserted through this 

 hole. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



ON A SUPPOSED NEW SP CIES OF CRISTATELLA. 

 BY EDW. POTTS. 



I wish to announce the discovery in October last, within the 

 waters of Harvey's Lake, Luzerne Co., Pa., of vast colonies, or, 

 technically speaking, of aggregations of colonies of a species of 

 Gristatella, exhibiting some peculiarities that seem to distinguish 

 it from C. mucedo of Europe and from both the known American 

 forms. 



Harvey's Lake is a beautiful sheet of water, Ijang at an altitude 

 of about 1200 feet above sea-level, amongst partially wooded hills 

 of no great height, and taking rudely the shape of the capital 

 letter T. Its greatest length is about two miles. The depth 

 throughout the larger part of this extent is said to be very great, 

 increasing rapidly a few feet from the shore. The first groups of 

 this beautiful polyp were found upon a large inclined log or stump 

 in deep water, within one or two feet of the surface. Here the 

 colonies appeared as scattered vermiform masses much longer 

 than those of C. Idse of Leidy, and nearly rivaling in length 

 those of G. ophidioidia of Hyatt. The longest were estimated 

 at about six inches. Instead, however of following the sinuous 

 lines, described by the latter author as characteristic of his 

 species, these assumed, generally, single or continuous curves, 

 like a parted letter O or rude C. Afterwards, in three or four 

 instances, we found them occupying entirely novel situations. 



The tops of fallen trees or large branches lying 20 or 30 feet 

 from the shore, and spreading to a diameter of 10 or 12 feet, were 

 covered by hundreds or thousands of these colonies, clinging to 

 or twining around every branch and twig, yet with so slight an 

 attachment that the motion of raising a twig above water caused 

 them to drop ofi" by dozens. While hanging temporarily by one 

 end they assumed a spiral form, closely twisting upon themselves. 

 Their gelatinous common ectocyst, nearly a line in thickness, 

 lined the branches as far as we could reach or see. Its persist- 

 ence upon those twigs brought away with us is rather remarkable, 

 as after remaining seven months in water it is still easily recog- 

 nizable. It exhibits under the microscope a plexus of fine lines 

 like a very delicate mycelium, which indeed may now have 

 replaced the normal structure. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



The pocket lens of the collector was of course insufficient to 

 reveal any distinctive characters in the individuals composing 

 these colonies, and we failed in the attempt to bring any of them 

 alive within reach of our microscopes, so that a full determination 

 of the species has awaited the recent germination of some of the 

 numerous statoblasts then secured. Their death in the glass jar, 

 in which some of the colonies were carried, made it necessary 

 several times during the past winter to change the water and 

 wash out the corrupt matter. On these occasions the statoblasts 

 were saved by pouring the water through a sieve. The winter 

 months passed, and April and May came, but still they did not 

 germinate, and I was on the point of discarding the whole as life- 

 less when a number of embryo colonies were fortunately discovered 

 upon the sides of the jar. 



These consisted of from one to eight polypides and exhibited 

 this constant peculiarity. The coenoecium, in a lateral view, might 

 be compared in shape to a shoe ; the coencecial cells, whether few 

 or many, occupying solely the elevated or ankle portion ; the 

 other extremity was always prolonged into one of the many forms 

 which fashion has dictated for our foot-covering, from the cylin- 

 drical pointed toes of some hundrds of years ago to the abbrevi- 

 ated stumps which still form the Chinese ideal of beauty. This 

 feature was very conspicuous, but as I am unable to compare 

 these young colonies with other species at a similar stage, I hesi- 

 tate to assume its novelty. In the later hatchings it is far less 

 noticeable, and in the most advanced stages which any of the 

 healthy colonies have reached, the prolongation has ceased to be 

 a prominent feature. 



An ounce phial contained a quantity of the statoblasts which 

 were supposed to have lost their vitality by " fouling." These 

 were now washed thoroughly in a sieve and placed in a half-gallon 

 jar of water. In about ten days I was rewarded by finding that 

 they had germinated by scores, and the surface of the water was 

 dotted with tiny groups floating with the disc side upward ; the 

 polyp heads and their beautiful plumes of tentacles depending 

 and spreading below. 



On removing a number of the statoblasts, firmly held together 

 by their marginal hooks, for moi'e minute examination under the 

 microscope, I found them in all the primary stages of develop- 

 ment ; from the as yet unaltered condition in which whatever of 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 195 



life may have quickened their long dormant cells, was hidden 

 from sight by the opaque chitin of theii' valves, to that in which 

 these had been pushed off to right and left and the neophite had 

 reached forth to discover the nature and limitation of the new 

 scene into which he had entered. 



The statoblasts, as in the other species of this genus, are orbic- 

 ular, reddish brown in color, relatively thick, with rounded 

 marginal annulus and a double series of retentive hooks. The 

 latter spring from circular membranous lines on each side, near 

 the circumference of the chitinous body, and on one side are 

 reflexed from the margin, while those pertaining to the other 

 curve abruptly, partly around the annulus and then become radial 

 in the equatorial plane ; their surfaces are i-oughened or minutely 

 tuberculated. Little difference is noticeable between the diameters 

 or the degrees of convexity of the exposed sides of the statoblast ; 

 that, however, to which the longer bent booklets are attached, is 

 generally the larger, with a single sweeping curve, while the other 

 has often a higher convexit}' at its centre. The chiton is com- 

 posed of minute hexagonal cells whose outer surfaces appear to 

 be concave^ or depressed, but their margins are elevated here and 

 there at the angles, into spinous papillae, with rounded apices, 

 more numerous near the circumference of the statoblast. 



As the germination of the enclosed embryo progresses the sides 

 or valves are forced apart, separating always at the same portion 

 of the margin ; the whole annulus remaining attached as before 

 described, while the chitinous rim of the other is drawn out from 

 under it, as a pill-box is separated from its lid. This is in marked 

 contrast with the process by which the valves of Pectinatella are 

 separated, as shown in the accompanjang diagram. 



The rounded edge of the semitransparent coenoecium now 

 appears and slowl}^ protrudes itself so that it is some hours before 

 the first polypide projects his immature tentacles. In the begin- 

 ning, and sometimes for several days, the coenoecium is nearly 

 filled with granular particles of 3^olk-like matter, opaque b}^ trans- 

 mitted light and of a light waxen yellow ^ when reflected light is 



^ Prof. Alhnan describes the chiton cells of C. macedo as convex upon 

 their outer surface which thus become "elegantly mammillatecl." A trans- 

 verse section of the statoblast shows that the annulus is firmly attached to 

 that side on which the hooks are reflexed, and spreads broadly over the rim 

 or margin pertaining to the opposite valve. 



'^ These are white in Pectinatella. 




196 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



used. These are frequently collected into spherical groups, and 

 one or more may occasionally be seen in the act of circulation 

 or of violent revolution — the result probably of ciliary currents 

 within the coenoecium. These granular masses adhere to the 

 stomach and other internal organs, obscuring their outlines and 

 making it nearly impossible to detect the appearance of the 

 secondary polypides ; they follow, however, so soon after the first, 

 that it is believed that several heads are considerably advanced 

 before the separation of the valves of the statoblasts. The ten- 

 tacles of the first polypide, however, are generally much better 

 developed when it appears, than are those of the succeeding 

 forms, indicating a nearer approach to maturity. The efi'ect of 

 ciliary action is quite evident in this immature condition, but the 

 cilia themselves are minute and difficult of definition. The gran- 

 ular bodies and groups which obscured the body of the coenoecium 

 become gradually absorbed, or in someway eliminated, remaining 

 latest in the caudal projection and finally entirely disappearing. 



The whole coenoecium then becomes beautifully transparent, 

 disclosing not merely the structure of the individual polypides 

 even when retracted, but the fine lines of the numerous retractor 

 muscles may be readily traced from their connection with the 

 stomach branchia, to their insertion in the disc or opposite 

 portion of the endocyst. The fact that the insertion of these 

 muscles occur in nearly parallel or radial lines upon the disc of 

 the coenoecium may account for the term used by writers who speak 

 of the cells of the coenoecium ; but there are no cell walls, and, 

 when entirely retracted, the stomachs of the individual polypides 

 pass through the lines of muscular filaments and lie wherever the}^ 

 can find room. This " finding room " for their several personalities 

 is often a matter of considerable difficulty to them, and of no little 

 amusement to the observer, who, when a colony is disturbed will 

 seethe first few polypides retire with some appearance of graceful 

 ease, but the laggards must struggle to tuck themselves into a 

 bed where six or eight are already lying, and repeated jerks and 

 jostles are necessary before they can finally hide themselves, as 

 they seem to think, by drawing the transparent coverlid of the 

 endocyst together over their heads. 



The cells of the outer layer of the endocyst are in this genus 

 larger and of greater depth than the corresponding series in 

 Pectinatella ; and in both genera appear to be of the same char- 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



acter over the whole surface of the coenajcium, there being no 

 such arrangement of locomotory apparatus upon the lower surface 

 in Cristatella as Prof. Allman describes and figures in the case 

 of C. mucedo.^ In both genera, also, by a delicate manipulation 

 of the light under a high power of the microscope may be 

 detected the fine lines of transverse and longitudinal muscular 

 tissue which form the third and fourth layers of Prof. Hyatt's 

 series, and are visible also under the thinner cell structure of the 

 evaginated polypide. 



As generally accepted, the ectocyst, which, in Pectinatella^ 

 forms a solid and constantly thickening mass of gelatinoid 

 matter, is in this genus thrown off" as a fugitive film, or, more 

 generally, a pavement layer of eflTete matter that supports the 

 colonies and upon which their locomotion is eff'ected. When the 

 young colonies have been liberated from the floating statoblasts 

 in my jars, they float, as has been already described, with their 

 discs at the surface of the water, and this delicate, invisible film 

 spreads upon the surface, uniting the neighboring colonies and 

 forming a common basis of support from which they do not 

 appear voluntarily to remove. In a natural situation on a stream 

 or pond the wind or currents would probably soon waft them 

 against some solid substance which they • would afterwards 

 colonize and inhabit. As has been said, no especial contrivance 

 appears to exist for facilitating the locomotion of these colonies, 

 and, while their power in this respect is, of course, unquestion- 

 able, the writer is inclined to doubt whether it is exercised 

 voluntarily and with a purpose, or is not rather an accidental 

 result of the frequent contractions and expansions of the retractor 

 muscles disturbing the position of alternate portions of the 

 disc. This seems the more plausible, as we do not find in this 

 species any method of prehension in the colonies, but merely a 

 gelatinous or slimy cohesion to the ectocyst. 



At maturity the evagination of the polypide in the species 

 under consideration is complete, leaving not only no " invaginated 

 fold " but exhibiting the whole digestive system of the polyp 



^ " In the middle of the flattened under surface is an oval disc resembling 

 the foot of a gasteropodous moUusk. On this disc, which is contractile 

 and admits of frequent changes of shape, the colony adheres to neighboring 

 objects or creeps about on submerged leaves and stems of aquatic plants, 



etc." 




198 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



some distance beyond the surface of the coenoecium. The total 

 length of the digestive tract is rather less than that of the 

 lophophoric arms and about equal to that of the outer rows of 

 tentacles. These are fewer in number than in any other described 

 species, ranging from 52-60.^ In the great majority of the 

 polyp heads which have been examined the number was 54 ; far 

 less frequently they range upward through 56 and 58 to 60, in 

 only one instance passing that number. On the other hand the 

 tentacular hooks of the statoblasts are more numerous than in 

 G. ophidioidea, and about the same as in the other species. 



Three species of the genus have been already described, G. 

 mucedo, Cuvier, in Europe, and G. Idee, Leidy, and G. ophidioidea, 

 Hyatt, in America, The differences existing amongst them are 

 not considerable, and it admits of question whether all should 

 not be merged under the prior title. In the present condition of 

 the subject it would seem that the species now brought forward 

 is at least as clearly differentiated from any of the former ones 

 as they are from each other. I will therefore name it, provision- 

 ally, Gristatella lacustris. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. 



Fig 1 represents a transverse section through the centre of a statoblast of 

 this species, Gristatella lacustris ; a, a, the exposed chitinous surfaces 

 of the valves ; b, b, the reflexed ; c, c, the bent, incurved retentive 

 hooks ; d, d, section of the annuhis, or ring of air cells surrounding 

 the chitinous body of the statoblast ; e, e, the part of the rim at 

 which the valves separate at the time of germination, as is shown on a 

 larger scale in 



Fig. 2, which represents one end of the section of a similar statoblast in 

 the act of separation, the parts indicated by letters corresponding to 

 those on fig. 1, with the addition of /, a delicate film which is being 

 stripped from the under siirface of the annulus, and g, (/, which suggest 

 the relative sizes and frequency of the papillae upon the exposed 

 surface of the valves. 



Fig. 3 exhibits for comparison a corresponding section of the statoblast of 

 Pectinatella magnifica, Leidy, lettered as before ; a, a, the exposed 

 surface of the valves ; b, b, the single series of anchorate hooks ; 

 d, d, sections of the annulus, itself divided by the line e, e, along 



^ In C. mucedo and C. Idee these are said' to be "about 80." In C 

 ophidioidea, "not above 90." 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 199 



which the separation of the valves in this genus is effected, as 

 shown in 



Fig. 4, much the larger portion of the annulus with all the hooks (which 

 are formed by expansions of its dermal surface) remaining upon one 

 side, and a smaller part, composed of coarser air cells upon the other. 

 It will be noticed that in Pectinatella the annulus is formed of two 

 distinct series of cylindrical cells, short upon one side of the separating 

 line, several times this length upon the other. The corresponding 

 cells of Cristatella are much more complicated, being formed about 

 numerous transverse lines upon the internal surface. The figures have 

 been carefully drawn by the aid of the camera lucida. 



Fig. 5. Outline views of the skeleton and statoblast spicules of the sponge 

 Meyenia Leidyi : A, the normal skeleton spicule ; B and C, side and 

 end views of the normal birotulate ; a, b, c, the corresponding features 

 as modified by their environment upon the iron pipes as described. 




200 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1884. 



July 15. 



Mr, Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Geology of Delaware," by F. D. Chester, 

 was presented for publication. 



On Elasticity in the Filaments of Helianthus. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan remarked that in many composite flowers the pollen is 

 ejected from the apex of the staminal tube, and it became a matter 

 of interest to ascertain the mechanism by which this is accom- 

 plished. The flowers of compositse ai-e much frequented by pollen- 

 collecting insects. Honey-gatherers seldom resort to them. It 

 is difficult on this account to watch the flow of pollen in the open 

 air, as it is collected by the insects as fast as it appears. Some 

 flowers of Helianthus lenticularis^ Dougl., were gathered, and for 

 the purpose of study placed in saucers of 

 water in a room where insects could not dis- 

 turb them. In this way it was observed that 

 after the corolla tube had reached its full 

 length, very early the following morning the 

 staminal tube commenced to grow beyond 

 the mouth of the corolla, and by about 9 

 A. M. had extended to a distance of about one- 

 fourth the whole length of the corolla. The 

 pollen then commences to emerge through the 

 upper portion of the staminal tube, which, 

 the stamens narrowing, has the apices free. 

 During the day the pollen continues to pour 

 out, till by nightfall a large amount has 

 accumulated at the apex of the tube. A 

 floret at this stage of growth is represented 

 by fig. 1. The morning of the second day 

 the arms of the pistil emerge and commence 

 to expand, and at onqe the staminal tube 

 begins to descend, exhibiting at the end of 

 the second day the appeai'ance indicated by 

 fig. 2. By the end of the third da}^, the 

 staminal tube has retired entirely within the 

 tube of the corolla, and with the pistil, commences to wither. A. 

 careful examiuation shows that through the whole course the 

 column of united anthers remains entirel}' of the same length. 

 It is the filaments only which are elastic. These stretch fully 

 one-half their length. Thej^ ai-e attached to the tube of the 

 corolla at the inflated portion a short distance above the achene, 

 and extend to about midway between this point and the end of 

 the tubular portion at the base of the limb; but when the anther 

 tube is extended as described in fig. 1, tlie filaments occupy the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



whole of this space. This pollen could fall onthestigmaof theflower 

 of the previous day, but as the stigma is already covered by pollen 

 of its own, other pollen is hardly likely to be of much service ; and 

 even if this outer circle did profit by the pollen of the inner, it would 

 not be cross-fertilization in an}^ legitimate sense of the word. We 

 may say emphatically that the arrangements favor self-fertilization. 



An interesting feature is the change in the form of the floret 

 on the second day of expansion. At the point where the stamens 

 are inserted on the corolla, the tube is somewhat inflated and 

 covered by short hair. On the first day this inflated portion is 

 elongated, and the whole tube luiiformly cylindrical, as in fig. 1. 

 On the second day the inflation is depressed, and the corolla 

 hypocrateriform as in fig. 2, This is probably owing to the 

 partial withering of the corolla, but it is worth noting as a guide 

 in the study of the florets of compositte — the normal form is that 

 exhibited before the anthers mature. 



The extension of the staminal tube is evidently mechanical, 

 and is due solely to the upward growth of the stigma, which, 

 partlj' it seems by the incurved points of the stameus, and 

 partl}^ perhaps b^'^ the expansion of the arras of the pistil, is able 

 to carry the tube up with it. This force being removed as soon 

 as the arms emerge, the elastic stamens draw the tube down 

 again to its normal location. This portion of the observation 

 was made by Mr. Alois Lunzer, the artist of the Flowers and 

 Ferns of the United States, then engaged in making a painting of 

 the flower for that work. 



The eflect of this process is to render the plant strictly a self- 

 fertilizer. The arms of the pistil are covered with rigid hair 

 having an upward direction. By the pushing upwards of the 

 pistil in its endeavor to escape from the embrace of the stamens, 

 these hairs brush the pollen upwards, and it is in this way that 

 the pollen is forced through the fissures at the apex as already 

 described. When the arms emerge, they are completely covered 

 with own-pollen, which remains till the stigmas mature. 



Helianthus lenticularis is the common annual sunflower of the 

 Western plains, and believed by Professor Asa Gray to be the 

 parent of the garden sunflower. This is not in bloom at the 

 present date. One species, Helianthus hirsutus, is in bloom, and 

 exhibits similar features, and the}^ are probably characteristic of 

 the whole genus, and perhaps of other composite plants. In 

 Centaurea the apex of the anther tube is closely united, and is 

 taken up with the development of the pistil, which finally escapes 

 through a rupture at the side. But in this case there seems to be 

 a cotemporaneous growth of the filaments. At any rate there is 

 no elasticity, and the staminal tube is not drawn back to the tube 

 of the corolla. Pollen is, however, brushed out b}^ the stigmatie 

 hair, and each floret receives own-pollen as in Helianthus. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



CATALOGITE OF MAKTNE SPONGES, COLLECTED BY MR. JOS. WILLCOX, 

 ON THE WEST COAST OF FLORIDA. 



BY HENRY J. CARTER, F. R. S., ETC. 



The fragments of the sponges collected by Mr. Willcox which 

 reached me from Philadelphia on June 12, 1884, are all numbered, 

 1-59, and have been taken from specimens which, bearing the 

 same numbers, have been retained at Philadelphia for identifica- 

 tion, when the result of my examination shall have been received ; 

 hence the numbers in the catalogue will be found to correspond 

 with those on the specimens at Philadelphia, 



It should be remembered that they are all dry specimens, and 

 that what I have to examine are only " fragments," hence there 

 is very little to be said of each beyond name, form, consistence 

 and color, together with the form and dimension of the spicule 

 respectively, while they are arranged in accordance with the class- 

 ification that I have proposed in ray " Notes Introductory to the 

 Study and Classification of the Spongida," published in the 

 Annals and Magazine of Natural History, for 1875, vol xvi, 

 p. 1, etc.^ 



Catalogue. 



Ord. II. CERATINA. 

 Fam. 2. APLYSINIDA. 



No, 19, Aplysina cauliformis, Crtr. ("Annals and Mag. Nat. 

 History," 1882, vol. ix, p. 270). 



Ord. III. PSAMMONEMATA. 



Fam, 1, BIBTJLIDA. 



Group 2, Parasponqiosa. 



No. 41. Paraspongia ? sp. Allied to the officinal sponge, 



but with more arenaceous (sand-bearing) fibre. 



' Abbreviations.— "Ann." for Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist. 



"Bk." for Bowerbank, monograph of British Spon- 



giada, vol. iii. 

 "Sdt." for Schmidt. 

 Measurements of the spicules those of the largest present, showing their 

 dimensions across and longitudinally. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Fam. 2. HIRCINIDA. 

 Group 3. HiRCiNiosA. 



No. 23. Hircinia? sp. Massive, erect, lobate. Surface 



even, minutely reticulated ; projecting arenaceous tags ; con- 

 sistence resilient. Color now brown. 



No. 26. Hircinia ? sp. Fragment too insignificant for de- 

 scription. 



No. 31. Hircinia tubulosa, Crtr. Consisting of a conical mass 

 of erect tubular processes. Consistence resilient. Color light 

 sponge. Fibre scantily cored with arenaceous substance (named 

 after its form). 



No. 36. Hircinia ? sp. Sessile, with solid cylindrical erect 



branches or processes interunited. (>onsistence resilient. Color 

 now sponge-brown. ? = No. 23. (Note. — As the fibre of these 

 Hircinide was invested with sarcode diflferent from the color of the 

 fibre itself, there is no saying what color the latter was in its 

 natural state.) 



No. 52. Hircinia ? sp. Sarcode destroyed by Spongio- 



phaga communis^ Crtr. (See " Parasites of the Spongida," Ann., 

 1878, vol. ii, p. 168.) Look at the white substance under a micro- 

 scope, to see the filaments of the parasite. 



No. 53. Hircinia? sp. Branched; branches solid, cylin- 

 drical. 



No. 54. Hircinia ? sp. Has grown over sedgy leaves. 



No. 55. Hircinia ? sp. Sessile, composed of erect conical 



tubes. 



Group 16. Arenosa. 



No. 59. Spongelia, Sdt., ?avara, Sdt. 



No. 57. Spongelia avara, Sdt. Red sarcode (Sp. Adriat. Meeres, 

 p. 29, taf. 3, fig. 6). 



No. 51. Spongelia^ Sdt. ? sp. := Dysidea, Bk. Fragment 



much worn. 



No. 44. Spongelia, Sdt. ? sp. 



No. 43. Dysidea, Bk. Like No. 39, but fibrous. ? Spongelia, 

 Sdt. 



No. 24. Spongelia, Sdt., ? pallescens, Sdt. (Sp. Adriat. Meeres, 

 p. 28). Dysidea, Bk. 



No. 39. Dysidea tenerrima, Crtr. Merely sarcode and sand 

 producing " columnar " structure. No fibre ; thus bearing much 

 the same relation to the Hirciniosa that the Holorhaphidota do 




204 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



to the Rhaphidonemata, viz., a minimum of Kerasine (named 

 after its structure). 



Ord. iy. rhaphidonemata. 



. Fam. 1. CHALINIDA. 



Group 1. DiGITATA. 



No. 13. Ghalina oculata, Bk. A delicate growth. 



No. 25. Ghalina oculata, Bk. A form of. 



No. 28. Ghalina oculata, Bk. Has grown over woody stems. 



No. 29. Ghalina oculata, Bk. Short-branched delicate growth. 



No. 42. Ghalina oculata, Bk. Form of. 



Fam. 2. CAVOCHALINIDA. 



Group 6. ACULEATA. 



No. 22. Tuba sororia, Duchass. de Fonb. et Michel. (Spongiares 

 de la mer Caraibe, PI. 8, fig 2. Harlem, 1864. Also see "Ann." 

 1882, vol. ix, p. 277, under " Cavochalinida," W. Indian Sponges). 



No number. Tuba sororia (D. et M., PI. 8, fig. 2). Covered, 

 with empty holes, formerly the abodes of a parasitic polyp. 



Ord. Y. ECHINONEMATA. 



Fam. 1. 



Group 4. ECHINOGLATHRATA. 



No. 16. Echinoclathria ? sp. Dense mass of erect, small, 



round, short-jointed branches, polychotomously dividing and 

 ending in short processes with rounded terminations ; knotty on 

 the surface, chiefly from the presence of a small parasitic polj-p. 

 Consistence hard. Color now gray. Texture dense. Spicule of 

 one form only, viz. : acute, short, robust, sub-capitate, the shortest 

 internally and the longest echinating the fibre. Size, about 14 

 by 1 — 1800 in. (Like Glathria coralloides, Sdt., Sp. Adriat. Meeres, 

 taf. V, figs. 10 and 11.) 



No. 27. Echinoclathria ? sp. The same as No. 16, but with 



compressed interuniting branches ending in pointed terminations, 

 but no parasitic polyp. Spicule about 18 by 2 — 1800 in. 



No. 30. Echinoclathria? sj?. Fragment too insignificant 



for general description. Compressed, interuniting branches, 

 ending in pointed divisions. Consistence firm. Color light 

 sponge-yellow. Fibre short-jointed, bearing internally and exter- 

 nally capitate acuates, the latter the longest and projecting in 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



tufts, mixed with a small echinating, spinous acuate (? Dictyo- 

 cylindrus, Bk.). 



No. 37. Echinoclafhria? sp. Dense mass of compressed, 



proliferous, interuniting branches arising from a contracted base, 

 growing on the valve of an Area, terminating in compressed, 

 somewhat expanded divisions. Surface subhispid. Consistence 

 hard, tough. Color now brown. Bearing a parasitic polyp 

 (Palythoa). Fibre short-jointed, amber-colored, bearing three 

 forms of spicules, viz. : 1, robust, acuate with globular tubercu- 

 lated head, about 23 by 2 — 1800 in. in its greatest dimensions ; 2, 

 long smooth acuate, 20 by ^—1800 in.; 3, echinating spicule, 

 clavate, spined, small, 6 by i— 1800 in. (Note.— If the " tubercu- 

 lated head " is not an accidental form, it is a markedly distin- 

 guishing character.) 



No. 38. The same as No. 21. 



No. 46. Echinoclathria? sp. Fragment useless for general 



form. Flimsy branched, interuniting, ridged. Consistence firm. 

 Color now whitish gray. Fibre tough, short-jointed, amber- 

 colored, bearing two forms of spicule, viz. : 1 , large, long and short 

 robust acuates, less in diameter at the large end than in the 

 middle of the shaft; 2, echinating, short spinous acuate. 



Fam. 2. AXINELLIDA. 



Group 6. MULTIFORMTA. 



No. 6. Reniera digitata, Sdt. (Spong. Adriat. Meeres, p. 15, taf. 

 7, fig. 11.) Massive, sessile lobate. Surface cellular, roughened 

 by ridges and small processes. Consistence firm. Color orange. 

 Structure cellular. (? A species of the genus Higginsia, Higgin, 

 "Ann.," 1877, vol. 19, p. 291 ; vol. xiv, fig. 1.) 



No. 7. Higginsia coralloides, Higgin ("Ann.," 1. c). 



No. 15. Axinellid,? gen. et sp. Fragment shreddy, branching, 

 tough, brown color. Fibre short-jointed, very tough and amber- 

 colored, hispid, bearing three forms of spicules, viz. : 1, robust, 

 simple, acuate, long and short; 2, fine, long, setaceous, acuate ; 

 3, small, navicular anchorate, flesh-spicule. The acuates are 

 situated partly in and partly projecting from the fibre echin- 

 atingly, with the anchorate plentifully scattered about their base 

 of attachment. (? Glathria Sdt., Sp. Adriat. Meeres). 



No. 35. Axinella polypoides, Sdt. (Sp. Adriat. Meeres, p. 3, 

 taf. 6, fig. 4). 



No. 45. Higginsia coralloides, Higgin ("Ann.," 1. c). Erect 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



branches, compressed interuniting, roughened by small projecting 

 processes. Consistence now hard. Color whitish gray, spicules 

 of two forms, viz. : 1, large acerate, smooth, 40 by 2 — 1800 in. ; 2, 

 small acerate, spinous, partly in and partly out of the fibre, pro- 

 jecting echinatingly from the surface. 



Ord. YI. HOLORHAPHIDOTA. 

 Fam. 1. RENIERIDA. 

 Group 1. Amorphozoa, 

 No. 5. Halichondria panicea, Bk., attached to sea-weed, covered 

 with white Melobesia. 



No. 12. Halichondria panicea, Bk. 

 No. 34. Halichondria panicea, Bk. 

 No. 58. Halichondria panicea, Bk., much worn. 



Fam. 2. ISODICTYOSA. 

 No. IT. Isodictya, Bk. ? sp. Fragment of a branch. Con- 

 sistence crumbly. Color white. Spicule acerate, 11 by | — 1800 

 in. (Where the spicule is acerate, which is generally the case, 

 the species ai'e ill-defined, as yet.) 



Group 3. Thalyosa. 



No. 48. Reniera? sp. Fragmentofacylindrical, solid branch, 



in which the fibre is entirely composed of small acerate spicules, 

 about 13-1800 in. long. (These species, for the foregoing reason, 

 are, as yet, ill-defined , except where their general form is peculiar.) 



No. 49. The same. 



Group 6. Halichondrina. 



No. 32. Halichondria incrustans, Mihi. Yariety with "angu- 

 lated " (Bk.) anchorate and smooth acuate. Consistence crumbly. 

 Color white. Fragment massive, attached to a dark green, dry, 

 gelatinous, now hardened mass, which, if not one of the " Carnosa," 

 is probably the remains of a compound tunicated ascidian. 



Suberites par excellence. Groups 10, 11 and 12. Cavernosa, 

 Compacta, Laxa. 



10. Cavernosa. 



No. 3. Suberites? sp. Fragment useless for general form, as 



the whole is broken down into a mass of spicular pulp and fibre. 

 Color yellowish. Spicule of one form onl}^, viz., pin-like; shaft 

 smooth, slightly fusiform and curved ; head oval ; size, 30 by 

 1—1800 in. (? = No. 18.) 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 20V 



No. 10. Raphyrus Griffithsii, Bk. Branched tubular variety, 

 therefore might he designated " ramotubulata," Crtr. (The 

 first instance of this form that I have seen.) 



No. 11. The same, but the usual massive, solid form. N. B. — 

 It is Gliona celata, which, after having destroyed the oyster-shell 

 in which it generally burrows, grows into the free form called 

 by Dr. Bowerbank " Raphyrus Griffithsii " (Mon., vol. iii, pi. 64). 



No. 18. Suberites ? sp. Fragment branched and interuniting 



most irregularly. Surface covered with short warty and digiti- 

 form processes. Consistence light corky. Color ochre-yellow. 

 Structure cellulo-cavernous. Spicule of one form only, viz., pin- 

 like ; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform and curved ; head oval, often 

 followed towards the shaft, by an annular inflation ; size, 30 by 

 1_1800 in. 



No. 33. Suberites ? sp. Fragment useless for general form ; 



further than that it is verj^ irregular and interuniting, suberite- 

 like. Consistence firm. Color white. Structure cancello-cavern- 

 ous. Spicule of one form only, viz., pin-like ; shaft smooth, 

 slightly fusiform and curved ; head globo-conical ; about 65 by 

 1—1800 in. 



No. 1. Suberites? sp. Massive, erect, sessile, terminating 



in small, conical processes. Consistence now firm. Color gray 

 outside, yellowish inside. Structure cancello-cavernous. Spicule 

 of one form only, viz., pin-like ; shaft smooth, slightly fusiform 

 and curved ; head nearly oval ; point obtusely rounded ; size 25 

 by 1 — 1800 in. in its greatest dimensions. (If the obtuseness of 

 the point is not accidental, this is a good character.) 



11. Compact A. 



No. 4. Suberites ? sp. Taking the form of the Serpula- 



tubes over which it has grown, interuniting and enclosing shells. 

 Consistence hard now and compact. Surface villous. Color 

 yellowish gray. Spicule of one form only, viz., pin-like ; shaft 

 smooth, slightly fusiform and curved; head oval, often prolonged 

 posteriorly ; size 50 by 1 — 1800 in. 



No. 8. Suberites ? sp. Taking its form from the sedgy 



leaves over which it has grown. Consistence cheesy, now hard. 

 Color greenish outside (adventitious ?), yellowish within. Like 

 Hymeniacedon carnosa, Bk., in consistence and structure, if not 

 in the forjn of the head of the spicule. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



No. 40. Suberites? sp. Irregularly branched, interuniting, 



ending in round-topped processes. Consistence compact. Color 

 reddish yellow. Spicule of one form onl^', viz., pin-like ; head 

 globular with posterior projection, tricuspid like in profile. 

 (? Suberites marsa, Sdt., Sp. Adriat. Meeres, p. 6*1, taf. T, fig. 2.) 



12. Laxa. 



No. 20. Halichondria sanguinea, Bk. (Mon., vol. iii, pi. 32, 



fig. 5). 



Fam. 13. DONATINA. 



No. 47. Tethya lyncurium^Ws.. (pi. 15, fig. 17, op. cit.). Robust 



form with large cavernous excavations on the surface, and bundles 



of spicules sunk in the dry, dark, chondroid tissue. 



Fam. 14. GEODINA. 

 No. 21. Geodia tuberculosa, Bk. (Proc. Zool. Soc, 1872, p. 676, 

 pi. 46). 



No. 50. The same. Cylindrical fragment. 



Ord. YIII. CALCAREA. 



No. 9. Ascaltis Lamarckii, Haeckel (Die Kalkschwarame, vol. 2, 

 p. 60, Atlas, taf. 9, fig. 5). Massive, growing among sand and 

 round the stems of sea-weed. Enveloping sand. {Clathrina, 

 Gray.) 



Numbers absent, viz., 2, 14 and 56. 



Observations. 



Lest it should be thought that it is only necessary to present 

 a fragment of a sponge to have its name and description pointed 

 out as readily as this might be done with a plant in botany, the 

 former being expected from the accumulated product of a few 

 years, while the latter is one of centuries, I would append the 

 following remarks on the above " Catalogue ^^ : — 



The family of Hircinida requires to be generally reviewed, but 

 the time for this has not arrived, since if not by actual specimens 

 preserved when fresh in a wet state, it must be done by a review 

 of all the illustrated descriptions of this kind that have been 

 published ; while considering that the specimens of Hircinida 

 are exceedingly numerous and very much alike, nothing but an 

 opportunity of this kind holds out any hope of their e\QY being 

 collated, divided and finally arranged in such a manner as would 

 be useful to the student. In the spiculiferous sponges the form 

 of the spicule often facilitates this, but in the Hircinida generally. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 209 



when divested of the sarcode, which often has a particular color, 

 there is absolutely nothing left but the horny fibre covered with a 

 heterogeneous assemblage of foreign objects, viz., sand, frag- 

 mentary sponge-spicules and other microscopic bodies, which 

 vary in amount and kind with those which are most plentiful in 

 the locality where the sponge may be growing, if we except the 

 general form which the skeletons composed of this fibre may 

 retain. 



The Suberites par escellence, too, like the Hircinias, require a 

 similar treatment, for here the skeletal spicule, being for the most 

 part simply pin-like, is so similar and so slightly varied in form, 

 that, in most instances, this alone would be insufiicient for dis- 

 tinction. However, the skeletal spicule is often accompanied by a 

 flesh-spicule of a spini-spirular or other form, which lessens the 

 difficulty; but they can seldom be seen without mounting a 

 microscopic fragment in balsam, when the transparency renders 

 them (if there are any) plain, which the wet sarcode previously 

 rendered obscure. This should be done with all the specimens 

 above mentioned, as it involves an amount of time which I now 

 have not at my disposal ; hence can only recommend the student 

 to consult my initiatory attempt to do this in the " Annals " of 

 1882 ("West Indian Sponges," etc., vol. 9, p. 349, etc., pi. xii, figs. 

 25-30). 



See also, for the group Donatina and species Donatia lyncurium, 

 "General observations " (lb. ib., p. 358, etc.). 



In m}' division of the Echinonemata, the first groups of the 

 families Ectyonida and Axinellida respectivelj', viz., " 1 " and 

 " 6 " i. e. " Pluriformia " and " Multiformia " are merely pro- 

 visional terms for including a vast number of species which here- 

 after will have to undergo description, illustration and division, 

 when they shall have been usefully collated, etc., after the manner 

 already mentioned, but so much time, taste, labor and opportunity 

 will be required for this, that many years must pass before it even 

 approaches completion. 



The number of species of sponges that exist and have still to 

 be discovered has been chiefly foreshadowed to me by the dry 

 specimens in the British Museum, upon which m}^ proposed 

 " Classification " has been based, but cannot be put forthwith 

 any certainty under such circumstances, more especially the sub- 

 division of the orders. 




210 proceedings of the academy of [1884. 



July 22. 

 Mr. Thomas Meeeian, Yiee-President, in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



July 29. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



Sexual Characteristics in Zinnia. — Mr. Thomas Meehan, 

 referi'ino; to some so-called double Zinnias on the table, remarked 

 on the change of sexual character which followed the change of 

 a tubular to a ligulate floret This was not confined to Zinnia, 

 but occurred in Dahlia, and, he believed, all composite flowers. 

 It must be a well-known fact, but had not, so far as he knew, 

 been placed on record. It was well worthy of study by those 

 interested in the laws of sex. In Zinnia a single ligulate floret 

 would often be surrounded by tubular and hermaphrodite ones; 

 but it would have the purely pistillate character of the ray florets. 

 In like manner, when, in the double Dahlia, the tubular florets 

 became ligulate, the neutral character of the ray florets followed 

 with them. It was evident that in these cases there was an 

 intimate connection between the form of the floret and its sexual 

 character. There was even a diff"erence in the form of the akene 

 in the diff'erent florets of Zinnia. The ligulate female floret had 

 a broad akene, tapering at the summit, and with the apex very 

 hairy ; while the akene of the tubular hermaphrodite floret was 

 truncate, and entirely smooth. 



He made some further remarks on the growth of the floret in 

 connection with that of the staminal tube. In many compositae 

 the growth of the pistil continued for a day or two after the 

 corolla had ceased to grow, pushing up often to a length double 

 that of the corolla. In Zinnia the growth of the floret was 

 enormous on the last day, often doubling its previous length in 

 twenty-four hours. It always remained longer than the pistil, 

 until it withered away, when the expanded arms of the pistil were 

 exposed. The anther cells burst before tiie floret opened, and, 

 though the arms could not expand, enough pollen entered by the 

 stigmatic fissure to ensure self-fertilization. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of PHILADELPHIA, 211 



DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF TERRESTRIAL MOLLTJSCA OF CUBA. 



BY RAFAEL ARANGO. 

 Choanopoma uncinatum Arango (fig. 1). 



Testa subperforata, oblongo pupseformis, teniuscula, truncata, 

 filoso costata, furcescenti-albida, seriebus macularum 

 rufarum longitudinaliter ornata ; sutura profunda, costis 

 excurrentibus incrassatis albido-dentata ; anfr, siiperst. 

 4-5 convexiiisculi, ultimus antice solutus, dorso cari- 

 natus ; apertara verticalis, ovalis ; peritreraa duplex, 

 internum breve, externum dilatatum, lateri dextro latiore, 

 undulato, in angulo supero uncinate reflexum. Operculum 

 normale. 



Long. 16 mill.; diam. t mill.; apert. 4 mill. 



Habitat. — San Juan de las Lleras, prope Villaclara. 



Siraillimura Tudorse Moreletianse, differt operculo Choanopo- 

 matum et forma altera peritrematis. 



Cylindrella assimiJis Arango (fig. 2). 



Testa simillima Cyl. arcustriatse. Differt statura magis cylin- 

 drica, costis minus confeitis, fortioribus ; fasciis spadicea 

 suturam anfractus sequentis tangente et prope peri 

 trema expansum terminante (magis conspieua quam in 

 arcv striata). Anfractus 12 testae integrse. 



Long. 23-26 mill.; diam. 6 mill.; apert. 4 mill. 



Habitat. — La lagua, prope La Palma in provincia 

 Pinar del Rio. 



Cylindrella contentiosa Arang'^. 



Testa vix rimata, fusiformi-turrita, fusco-cornea, pallidee pauce 

 variegata ; spira sursum sensim attenuata ; truncata ; sutura 

 subcrenulata ; anfr. superst. 14-15 planulati, ultimus adnatus, 

 basi filoso-carinatus ; apertura subcircularis ; peritrema undique 

 jequaliter expansum, album. 



Long, testae truncatae 14-16 mill. ; diam. 3 mill. 



Columna interna lamina unica acuta oblique circumvoluta. 



Habitat. — San Juan de las Lleras, prope Villaclara. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Cylindrella Lajoncherei Aiango. 



Testa fiisiformi-elongata, gracilis, subtruncata, tenuis, sub- 

 oblique costata, diaphana, albicla ; anfr. superst. 15-17, ultimus 

 solutus, deorsum protractus ; sutura simplex ; apertura oblique 

 circularis, peritrema undique breviter expansum. 



Long. 15-17 mill. ; diam. 2^ mill. 



Columna interna filoso-torta. 



Habitat. — San Juan de las Lleras, prope Yillaclara. 



Similis Cyl. Philippianse, differt forma longiori, eostis remo- 

 tioribus et colore albido (nee fusculo-variegato). 



Cylindrella Thomsoni Arango (fig. 3). 



Testa similis Cyl. coloratse (vide descriptionem) sed 

 differt statura magis cylindrica, colore corneo, testa pellu- 

 cida, fascia spadicea solummodo in anfractu ultimo visible. 

 Anfractus 14 testse integrae. 



Habitat. — " La lagua^'' prope La Palma in provincia 

 Pinar del Rio. 



Cylindrella infortunata Arango (fig 4). 



Pruc. Acad. Nat. Sc. of Phila., 1882, p. 106. 



Testa non rimata, subfusiformi-turrita, tenuis, diaphana, 

 chordato-eostata, albido-cornea ; spira breviter truncata ; 

 sutura profunda, non crenulata; anfr. superstites 12, plani- 

 usculi, ultimus breviter solutus; basi obsolete carinatus; 

 apertura subovalis ; peritrema expansiusculum, album. 



Longitud. testse truncatae 13 mill. ; diam. 3 mill. 



Columna interna 3-plicata, plica superiori ampliori. 



Habitat. — Prsedium '■'■La Chorera^'' municipium Yifiales, 

 in provincia Pinar del Rio. 



Cylindrella colorata Arango (fig. 5). 



Proc. Ac^d. Nat. Sciences, 1882, p. 106. 



A figure of this species is now given from a t3^pe 

 specimen. 




1884.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 213 



August 5. 

 Mr. Edw. Potts in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



On Paludicella erecta. — Mr. Edward Potts desired to have a 

 preliminary record made of his recent discovery or identification 

 of a new species of Paludicella^ for which he proposes the name 

 Paludicella erecta. 



This genus of fresh-water polyps has heretofore contained only 

 the single clearly defined species P. Ehrenhergi^ Van Beneden 

 (Alcyonella articulata, Ehrenberg"), the other two names, P. pro- 

 cumbens and P. elongata, suggested by Mr. Albany Hancock and 

 Prof. Leidy, being considered by Prof. Allman as identical with 

 the original type. The present form is strikingly diff"erent from 

 the old one, both in the number of its ciliated tentacles and in 

 the character of the coenoecial cells. The doubt which has lin- 

 gered in the mind of the speaker has not been as to the species, 

 but whether, in view of the difficult determination of the char- 

 acteristic septae between the cells, amounting in fact to an 

 apparent absence of them, a new genus might not be required to 

 accommodate it. 



It was first noticed in Tacon}^ Creek, a small stream in Mont- 

 gomery County, Pennsylvania, at that place perhaps fifty feet 

 above tide-water. A few days after it was also gathered within 

 tidal limits in both the Delaware and Schuylkill Rivers, near 

 Philadelphia. In the first-named locality it was found most 

 abundantly in the pools amongst the rapids of the stream, fre- 

 quently covering the upper surface of stones, at the depth of a 

 foot or more, to the extent of many square inches. The erect 

 portions of the coenoecial cells in the denser parts of the colonies 

 are about a line in height and, standing very closely, suggest a 

 comparison with the surface of a chestnut-burr. In the rivers 

 they were found penetrating the mass of encrusting sponges, 

 particularly Meyenia Leidyi. 



These upright tubules are chitinous prolongations of very 

 irregularly inflated cells, resting in compact disorder upon the 

 supporting surface, crossed and connected in some manner not 

 yet intelligible, by meandering cylindrical rhizomes, sometimes of 

 great relative length. These are mostly terminal and simple, but 

 are sometimes branched and frequently originate in an indif- 

 ferent lateral portion of a cell. The tubular prolongations 

 are, of course, always single ; the invaginated polyp retiring 

 within the inflated portion of the cell. Septae were, in a few 

 instances, discovered in the rhizomes near their insertion or 

 connection with the inflated portion of the cells. The upright 




214 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



portions of those cells which seemed to be least matured were 

 longer than those of their older neighbors, subclavate or spindle- 

 shaped and rounded at the extremities. The otliers are cylin- 

 drical or slightly widening downwai'ds and shorter tlian the 

 former bj^ the invagination of the terminal portion of the 

 ectocyst. This has the effect of producing the angular appear- 

 ance of the orifice, so familiar in the older species ; but while 

 that is generally quadrangular, this has frequently five or more 

 sides. The younger cells are nearly transparent, but they darken 

 with age and become somewhat encrusted with adherent particles 

 and overgrown by commensal parasites, Limnias, Pi/xicola, and 

 the like. 



The polypides are shy, but fond of the light, and when other- 

 wise undisturbed will remain for a long time protruded in the 

 full glare of microscopic illumination. It can then be seen 

 that the lophophore is circular, without epistome, supporting 

 ordinarily twenty tentacles, taking the shape of a claret glass and 

 opening upwards. (Nineteen and twenty-one tentacles have 

 been doubtfully counted, while the above-mentioned number is 

 frequent; F. Ehrenbergiis universally stated to have but sixteen). 

 A peculiarity of the tentacles is the presence upon the outer 

 median line of each, of a ratlier sparsely filled series of quiescent 

 setae, in strong contrast with the rapidly moving cilia around 

 them. 



The development of this polyp from the ovum, of which 

 interesting hints have been obtained, and its internal structural 

 peculiarities, are reserved for further study, and if satisfactory 

 results shall have been attained, they will be treated of in a later 

 paper. The nearly simultaneous observation of this species in 

 three distinct localities, and its abundance in each, indicates that 

 it is probably not uncommon, and excites surprise that it does 

 not appear to have been previously noticed. 



August 12. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



A Large Zircon. — Dr. A. E. Foote recorded the discovery of 

 the largest crystal of zircon ever known. It is dj inches high, 

 4 inches on one face and 3| inches on the other. It undoubtedly 

 originally weighed twelve pounds, but owing to a small portion 

 being lost by fracturing it now weighs but eleven and three-quarter 

 pounds. The largest cr3^stal ever known before weighed less 

 than three pounds. The crystal is doubly terminated, and, 

 though somewhat broken in taking out nearly all the pieces were 

 saved. At one end there are two terminations and one of these 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 215 



was broken off in some great convulsion of the earth's surface. 

 This had been separated from the main cr3'stal by a piece of 

 orthoclase that had unmistakably been formed since the rupture 

 of the crystal. Such a fact is of great importance in studying 

 the geological history of the formation. The locality is Brudi- 

 nelle, Renfrew Co., Ontario, Canada, and the rock is a vein of 

 pink feldspar in a Laurentian gneiss. It is associated with sphene 

 and crystals of peristerite (?). Some of the faces of the latter 

 show tiie moonstone reflections very plainly. Cavities once filled 

 with calcite (now mostly dissolved away) occur in the vein. 

 There are also some small crystals that need further examination. 



August 19. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 

 The death of W. L. Schaeffer, a member, was announced. 



August 26. 



Mr, J. H. Redfield in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



The death of James L. Claghorn, a member, was announced. 

 Edward P. Bliss and Ralph W. Seiss, M.D., were elected 

 members. 



September 2. 

 Rev. H. C. McCoOK, D. D., Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-one persons present. 



On the wide Distribution of some American Sponges. — Allusion 

 having been made to the wide distribution of certain species of 

 spiders over the North American continent, Mr. E. Potts, refer- 

 ring to the fresh-water sponge fauna of this country, said, that 

 Spongilla fragilis, the first sjtecies named in America, described 

 by Dr. Leidy in 1851 from specimens collected near Philadelphia, 

 bad since been found abundantly along the Atlantic coast from 

 Florida to Nova Scotia. It had been gathered at several points 

 along the St. Lawrence and in the great lakes, through the middle 

 continent, and in the far west had been described by Dr. Bower- 

 bank, in 1863, under the name of S. Lordii, as found in the lakes 

 and streams flowing from the Cascade Range in British Columbia, 




216 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



affluents of the majestic Columbia River. The species ma^^, there- 

 fore, be regarded as strictly continental in its range, and until 

 very recently it has been distinctively American. It is a little 

 singular that the only other place in which it has been noticed is 

 in the neighborhood of Charkow, in Russia, where it was dis- 

 covered, a few months since, by Dr. L. Dybowski. 



The specimens of this species from Nova Scotia had been 

 collected by Mr. A. H. Mackay, B. A.,B. S., of Pictou Academy, 

 Pictou, N. S., from whom the speaker had recently received a 

 collection of sponges, phenomenal in its character, both as regards 

 the number of genera and species represented, and the excellent 

 judgment that had attached to most of them their proper names, 

 from apparently very insufficient data. The collection was the 

 result of few days' search within a limited district, " from lakes 

 in and near the water shed of Nova Scotia, near the borders 

 of the three counties of Pictou, Guysboro and Antigonish," at 

 elevations of from 100 to 700 feet above sea level. Of the genus 

 Spongilla^ it contains three species, S. lacustris^ S.fragilis, and 

 S. iglooiformis ; of the genus J^fej/ema, two species, M. fiuviatilis 

 and M. Everetti; of the genus Heteromei/enia, two, H. argy- 

 rosperma and H. Byderi, and of the genus TiibeUa, one species, T. 

 Pennayivanica — eight species, representing four genera. Besides 

 these there were small specimens of another species, evidently 

 new, but whose genus relations could not be determined on account 

 of the absence of statoblasts. 



In some respects the most important find in the collection is 

 Meyenia Everetti Mills ; this being only the second instance in 

 which the species has been discovered. The original locality was 

 Gilder Pond upon Mt. Everett, in Berkshire Co., Mass., at an 

 elevation of 1800 or 2000 feet above the sea. It was there col- 

 lected by Dr. F. Wolle and Mr. H. S. Kitchel of Bethlehem, Pa., 

 well known for their invaluable work among the desmids and 

 diatoms ; and examined simultaneously by Mr. H. Mills of Buf- 

 falo, N. Y., and the speaker. Its most striking peculiarity is the 

 presence, all through the dermal tissues, of very minute birot- 

 ulate spicules, the only instance in which these have been observed 

 as characteristic features of the dermal surface in any fresh-water 

 sponges ; unless the complicated forms found in Mtyenia plumosa 

 Carter, may be considered an exception. 



These birotulates in the present collection average one-third 

 longer than those before examined, and are in every way more 

 robust. The si)eaker was gratified in finding this confirmation of a 

 rule which he has long since observed to hold amongst the infinite 

 variations of size and form noticeable in collections of the same 

 species from various localities ; viz , that the spicules of all species 

 increase regularly in size and solidity as we descend from high 

 altitudes towards the sea-level, where is found the exti'eme limit 

 of the series. He does not attribute this gradation to a change 

 of climatic conditions, but more probably to a gradual and con- 




18S4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



stant improvement in the food-supply or in the siliceous constit- 

 uent of the water. He has traced the workings of the rule more 

 particularly through the very variable species, Spongilla lacustris 

 and S.fragilis; in Meyenia fluviatilis^ in Heteromeyenia argyro- 

 sperma and H. Kyderi, and lastly and most conspicuously in 

 Tuhella Fenvsylvanica. The extremes in this last series differ so 

 widely that they wJbld hardly be taken to belong to the same 

 species, but the intermediate grades have all been collected, largely 

 from the same stream ; and as a result several species named in this 

 and other cases, have relapsed into synonyms. 



September 9. 



Dr. W. S. W. RuscHENBEEGER, in the chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The death of R. E. Rogers, M. D., a member, was announced. 



September 16. 

 Rev. H. C. McCooK, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



On the Minute Fauna of Fairmount Beservoir. — Mr. E. Potts 

 alluded to the difficulties that ordinarily prevent a thorough study 

 of the fixed aquatic fiiuna, which he described as thereby generally 

 limited to collections from the shallow water near the margins of 

 lakes and streams, or of such forms as may adhere to the few 

 timbers or stones that can be dragged from a greater depth. He 

 therefore urged the importance of making use of such opportuni- 

 ties as are furnished by the temporary drainage of reservoirs, 

 canals, etc., to examine thoroughly the incrustations upon exposed 

 walls and timbers, or on the bed of the stream. 



Such an occasion was affoixled a few days since, when the acci- 

 dental breaking of a valve necessitated the drawing ofi' of the 

 water from tlie Fairmount reservoirs. These are divided by per- 

 pendicular walls, eight or ten feet in height, and, unfortunately, 

 facilities were not at hand in the shape of ladders, planks, etc., to 

 enable him to make a minute examination of them. From the 

 margin, however, could be seen at many places patches of the 

 s\do\)ges, Spongilla fragilis and Meyenia Jiuviatilis^whila the cages 

 over the outlet ])ipes, and, more strikingly, the walls surrounding 

 the main outlet at the southeast corner, were thickly encrusted with 

 Meyenia Leidyi. The last-named sponge is very compact and 

 little liable to crumble during the winter season, so that it is prob- 

 able that the large masses, some of them nearly an inch in thick- 



15 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ness, and a foot or two in diameter, represent the aggregation of 

 several ^^ears. In a few places, at tlie base of the walls, the pale 

 green branches of Spongilla lacuatris could be seen, and occa- 

 sionall}', to the speaker's surprise, slender waving processes of the 

 same species, totally colorless, could be seen reaching up through 

 the mud in little groups upon the bottom. He was surprised, 

 because he had always held that it was impotsible for sponges to 

 live upon a muddy bottom, and theoretic reasoning would still 

 suggest that probably only this species, which can thus hold itself 

 up out of the suffocating silt, can survive the constant deposition 

 of siliceous particles. The total amount of sponge growth was 

 relatively small, and the probability of an aqueous taint from it, 

 very remote. 



The commensal habit of many of the lower animals who feed by 

 the creation of ciliary whirlpool currents, has been frequently 

 referred to ; the weaker current-makers, such as vorticell0e,stentors, 

 and the errant and tubicolous rotifers, planting themselves about 

 the heads of the stronger pol^'zoa to supply their own nets with 

 what may have escaped from the others. The same instinctive 

 principle which leads all these to locate themselves most plenti- 

 fully amongst the stones in the rapids of streams, was particularly 

 noticeable in promoting their aggregation upon and in the neigh- 

 borhood of the inlet and outlet gates of tiie reservoirs. The feeble 

 currents produced b}' each can only bring within its reach the 

 floating provision from a! very limited area; the volume of water 

 poured through these gates brings to them a rich supply, and the 

 numbers and variety of these organisms increase in proportion. 

 Of the fixed forms were seen amongst the bryozoa, beside one or 

 more undetermined species of Flumatella — Pectinatella magnifica 

 and Urnatella gracilis of Leidy, and the newly described Palu- 

 dicella erecta. Attached to these were Yorticellae, Epistilis and 

 Stentors innumerable; Pyxicola SLud Acineta; rotifers of various 

 names, including prominently Limnias and other, probably unde- 

 scribed forms among the Melicertidse. Very abundant among these 

 was the interesting chsetobranch annelid, Manayunkia speciosa 

 Leidy, which has of late been frequently noticed in this vicinity, 

 and the wonderfully marine-looking hydroid Cordylophora lacus- 

 tris. This last was particularly abundant around the southeast 

 outlet ; its stems forming a complete matting over many yards 

 of surface, commingled with br3'ozoa and sponges in intricate 

 confusion. 



A large valve had been removed from a discharging main on the 

 southern side of the reservoir hill, a hundred yards or more from 

 the opening in the bottom of one of the basins, and where all light 

 was consequently absent. An incrustation, averaging perhaps 

 three-eighths of an inch in thickness, upon the inner surface of this 

 valve, was found to be largely composed of the gemmuhe and 

 spicules of Meyenia Leidyi ; mingled with which were stems of 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Plumatella, Urnatella, and Cordylophora lacusfris. The fact that 

 all these can thus thrive in absolute darkness throws some doubt 

 upon the supposed sensitiveness of these forms to the presence or 

 absence of light, as does also the fact that while Faludicella 

 Ehrenbergi is said to seek the darkest corners, the speaker 

 found his new species, P. erecta, apparently rejoicing in the 

 glare of the full sunlight. 



Of course mau}^ other creatures than those above named were 

 casually seen in this connection, including chiefly amoebae, free- 

 swimming protozoans and entomostracans, planarian worms, 

 hydras and aquatic insect-larvae ; but the former are particularly 

 mentioned as among the most interesting and beautiful of those 

 that freely and innocently drink of the same cup with ourselves. 



September 23. 

 Mr. Edw. Potts, in the chair. 



Nine persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"A Review of the American Species of the Genus Hemi- 

 ramphus," b}' Seth E. Meek and David K. Goss, 



"A Review of the American Species of the Genus Teuthis," by 

 Seth E. Meek and Martin L. Hoffman. 



"A Review of the American Species of Scomberomorus," by 

 Seth E. Meek and Robert G. Newland. 



Tunisian Flints. — Dr. D. G. Brinton remarked that the flints 

 presented through him this evening had been received from the 

 eminent archaeologist, the Marquis de Nadaillac, whose son, an 

 officer in the French arm}^, obtained them at the station of Ras- 

 el-Oued, near Biban, on the southeastern coast of Tunis. The speci- 

 mens consist of flint chips, arrow-points, and a semi-lunar shaped 

 implement of small size, which resembles the " stemmed scrapers " 

 found in America. This form was obtained from the lower levels, 

 and is characteristic, in France, of the later productions of the 

 stone age, especially of that epoch called by French archae- 

 ologists "'the epoch of Robenhausen," from the locality of that 

 name in Switzerland. Chronologicall}', this is the first epoch of 

 the appearance of man on the globe, the previous implement- 

 using animals being more properly anthropoids. Those made 

 use of stone onl}', not having learned the dressing of bone or 

 horn. This view adds to the interest of the query as to the 

 purpose of these scrapers, as they are called in default of a better 

 name. That they were an important tool to the primitive man is 

 evident from their wide distribution. They have been found in 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



France, in the Crimea, in India, in America, in strata of great 

 antiquity (both North and South America), and here we have 

 them in Africa. 



The archaeology of the North African Coast has special claims 

 to attention, as from there apparently a very ancient migration 

 advanced northward, passing in one direction through Spain, and 

 in another by way of Malta, Sicily and Italy. This was cotem- 

 porary with the appearance of the Elephas Africanus in Europe, 

 whose bones have been found in intimate association with those 

 of man in various localities. It was long anterior to the immi- 

 gration of the Iberians or Basques, who by some are traced 

 to North Africa. Another point of interest may be added. The 

 only locality in the Old World where animal or effigy mounds 

 have been reported is in North Africa, in Algiers, near the forest 

 of Tenrit-el-Sad, south of Miliana. As these peculiar structures 

 are so frequent in the Mississippi Valley, the coincidence is worth 

 noting. 



Prof. Heilprtn contended, that while on the hj^pothesis of 

 evolution no objection could be raised to an assumption which 

 made an animal intermediate between man and the anthropoid 

 apes sufficiently intelligent to understand the full value and 

 manufacture of stone implements such as were exhibited, yet, as 

 a matter of fact, paleontological evidence had thus far failed to 

 prove that any such use or manufacture had been made of them, 

 as was here claimed. Indeed, no evidence was forthcoming to 

 show that the implements were not the work of man himself, 

 despite the fact that no traces of human remains were found 

 associated with the fragments. The assumption that the advent 

 of man dates only to a given period of the so-called " stone age," 

 was considered to be purely gratuitous, and to rest solely on 

 negative evidence. Many archaeologists concur in the belief that 

 his remains may yet be found in deposits of strictly Tertiary 

 age, and some, even in the early part of this period. The speaker 

 discussed the theory of the migration of races, and the succes- 

 sive introduction, into different regions, at different periods of 

 time, of the various epochs marking the development of the 

 human race. 



September 30. 



Mr. Edw. Potts in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



Henry F. Osborn, John Wanamaker, and Miss Adele M. Fielde 

 were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



A EEVIEW OF THE AMEBICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS HEMIKHAMPHUS. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND DAVID K. GOSS. 



The American species of the genus Hemirhamphus are in a 

 condition of great confusion. In this paper we have endeavored 

 to give the synon3^ms of those species which seem to be valid, 

 with an analysis of their specific characters. The paper is based 

 on specimens belonging to the Indiana University, and to the 

 United States National Museum, all of them collected by Professor 

 David S. Jordan on the coast of Florida and at Havana. 



This collection comprises three of the four Atlantic species 

 admitted by us, the published descriptions indicating the exist- 

 ence of another {H. balao), as yet unknown to us. 



Euleptorhamphus longirostris is not here mentioned, as we 

 regard it as the type of a genus distinct from Hemirhamphus. 



We are very much indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his 

 library and for valuable aid. 



Analysis of American species of the genus Hemirhamphus. 



a. Anal fin about as long as dorsal and opposite it, its rays 14 to 

 16 ; sides with a distinct silvery band ; last ray of dorsal not 

 produced in a filament. 



h. Ventrals inserted about midway between base of caudal and 

 posterior margin of eye ; dorsal and anal fins scaly ; lat. 

 1. 53 to 56. 



c. Length of mandible (from tip of upper jaw) not longer 

 than rest of head ; body and head comparatively 

 robust; D. 15; A. 16. unifasciatus. 1. 



cc. Length of mandible (from tip of upper jaw) not shorter 

 than rest of head ; body comparatively slender. D. 14 ; 

 A. 15. roherti. 2. 



hb. Ventrals inserted midway between base of caudal and gill 

 openings ; dorsal and anal fins not scaly ; lat. 1. 63 ; D. 

 14 : A. 14. rosse. 3. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



aa. Anal fin about f length of dorsal, its insertion behind that of 

 dorsal, its rays 11 or 12; sides without distinct silvery 

 band ; last ray of dorsal produced in a short filament. 



d. Scales comparatively large, about 53 in lateral line ; 

 upper lobe of caudal bright orange in life. D. 14 ; 

 A. 12. pleii. 4. 



dd. Scales comparatively small, about 63 in lateral line 

 ( Valenciennes) ; upper lobe of caudal dirty violet 

 (Poey); D. 11-14; A. 11-12 (Poey). balao. 5- 



1. Hemirhamphus unifasciatus. 



Hemirhamphus unifasciatus Raiizani, Nov. Comm. Acad. Sci. Inst., 



Bonon, v, 1842, 3.6, Taf. 25 (Brazil) ; Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. 



Mus., vi, 1866, 262 (in'part ; West Indies ; Rio Janeiro) ; Cope, Tians. 



Amer. Phil. Soc, 1871, 481 (St. Martin's) ; Jo: dan & Gilbert, Proc. 



U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 924 (Panama; no description). (Not H. 



unifasciatus of most American writers.) 

 f HcmirhampJms picarti Cuv. & Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., xix, 1846, 25 



(Africa). 



HemirliamjiJius richardi Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xix, 



1846, 26 (Antilles ; Cayenne ; Bahia ; Rio Janeiro). 

 HyporhampTius tricuspidatus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, 



131 (Barbadoes). 



Hemirhamphus fasciatus Poey, Memorias, ii, 1860, 299 (Cuba ; not of 

 Bleeker). 



Hemirhamphus poeyi Gimiher, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 262 (on 

 H.fasciotus Foey) ; Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, f.83 (Cuba) ; Poey, 

 Enumeration Pise. Cub., 1875, 121 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 273, 381 (Panama). 



Habitat. — Both coasts of tropical America and West Indies ; 

 Panama ; Cuba ; West Indies ; Antilles ; St. Martin's ; Rio Janeiro ; 

 Cayenne ; Bahia. 



This species is known to us from many specimens collected by 

 Professor Jordan at Havana and Key West. Young examples 

 are more slender than the old ones, and have the lower jaw pro- 

 portionately shorter. Both young and old are, however, more 

 robust, shorter and thicker in every part than specimens of II. 

 roberti of the same size. Except this diiierence of form, we are 

 unable to detect any distinction whatever. We have no doubt, 

 however, that the two are reallv different. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



The figure and description of Ranzani represents this species 

 much better than H. roherti. We therefore retain for it his 

 original name. H. richardi Cuvier & Valenciennes is evidently 

 the same, and H. picorti is at least very similar. Gill's Hypo- 

 rhamphus tricufipidatus is not very satisfactoril}' described, but 

 as its author afterwards refers to it as probably identical with H. 

 richardi^ and as the description and locality" best fit that species, 

 we have so considered it. 



Our Havana specimens leave no doubt that H. fasciatus and its 

 synonym, H. poeyi, are based on this species. Its lower jaw is, 

 however, longer than Poey describes, and but for this Dr. Giinther 

 would evidently have referred Poey's description to H. unifas- 

 ciatus. Specimens collected by Captain Dow, at Havana, show 

 that this is one of the species found on both sides of the isthmus. 



2. Hemirhamplius roberti. 



HemirhampTius roberti Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xix, 

 1846, 24 (Cayenne) ; Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 363 

 (New Orleans). 



HemirhampJius unifasciatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, 

 119 (Newport, R. I. ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1878, 383 (Beaufort, N. C), no description; Goode, Pioc. U. 

 S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 116 (Name only) ; .Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 188D, 20 (San Sebastian River, Fla.) ; Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mvis., 1880, 22 (St. John's River, Fla.), no descriition ; Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Pioc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 274 (Guaymas) ; Jordan and 

 Gilbert, BuU. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 106 (Mazatlan) ; Joidan 

 and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 588 (CharLston, S. C.J ; 

 Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 356 (Cape San 

 Lucas) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 262 

 (Ptnsacola, Fla.); Goode and Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 389 (Gulf of Mexico), no description ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn. 

 Fish. N. A., 1882, 376. 



HaMtat.—Eoih. coasts of America, chiefly north of the tropics : 

 Beaufort ; Charleston ; Pensacola, San Sebastian River ; Cedar 

 Keys ; New Orleans ; Cayenne ; Mazatlan ; Guaymas ; Cape San 

 Lucas. 



All the specimens of Hemirhamphiis thus far taken on the 

 Atlantic Coast of the United States, north of the Florida Keys 

 (except one of H. pleii), belong to a species differing from the 

 West Indian unifasciatus, in the slenderness of body and in the 

 greater length of the lower jaw. This is evidently the H. roberti 




224 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



of Giinther and the H. unifasciatus of all the American local 

 lists. The H. roherti of Cuvier and Valenciennes is very scantily 

 described. It is, however, related to H. unifasciatus, and is said 

 to have the lower jaw longer than in H. richardi or H. picarti. 

 We therefore identify it with this species, with this element of 

 doubt, that there is no other record of the slender form 

 south of Central Florida. This species occurs also in the Gulf 

 of California. Specimens from Charleston and from Mazatlan 

 are described by Jordan and Gilbert, as having the anterior rays 

 of dorsal and anal, and the upper and lower rays of caudal jet- 

 black, but no other difference from the usual form was noted. 



3. Hemirhamphus rosae. 



Hemirhamplius, sp. incert., Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1880, 29 (San Diego). 



Hemirhamphus rosce Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 

 335 (San Diego, Cal.) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1880, 457 (San Pedro, San Diego) ; Jordan and Jouy, Pioc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1881, 13 (San Diego); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1881, 43 (San Diego) ; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 316 

 (name only) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 376. 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of United States ; San Diego ; San 

 Pedro. 



We have nothing to add to the account of this species. 



4. Hemirhamphus pleii. 



Hemirhamphus marginatus Le Sueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ii, 



1823, 135 (Lesser Antilles ; not of Forskal). 

 Hemirhamphus pleii Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xix, 



1846, 29 (Antilles ; Martinique ; San Domingo) ; Giinther, Cat. Fish. 



Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 269 (Jamaica; Dominica; Bahia ; West Indies); 



Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 103 (Bermudas). 

 Hemirhamphus filamentosus Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 382 (Cuba) ; 



Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 121 (Cuba). 

 Hemirhamphus bj-qsiliensis Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 



902 (Hunger's Wharf, Virginia ; not of Giinther). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coasts of America and West Indies, Vir- 

 ginia to Brazil. Virginia ; Martinique ; San Domingo ; Jamaica ; 

 Dominica ; Bermudas ; Bahia. 



This species is very abundant at Key West, where it is known 

 as Balao, and at Havana, where it is called Escribano. It occa- 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 225 



sionally ranges northward, a specimen from Virginia being in 

 the National Museum. This is evidently Hemirhamphvs fila- 

 mentosvs of Poey. The scanty description of H. pleii of Cuvier 

 and Valenciennes seems to refer to it, at least in large part, as 

 this is the only species so far as known that has the upper lobe 

 of the caudal red or yellow in life. This is also the H. marginatus 

 of Le Sueur, but not the original H. marginatus of Forskal. 



5. Hemirhamphus balao. 



? Eso.r maxilla inferiore producta Brown, Jamaica, 1756, 443, t. 45, f. 2 

 (Jamaica). 



Esox brasiliensis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. 10, 1758, 314 (in part ; refer- 

 ence to Brown ; not Timucu Marcgrave, which should be regarded 

 as the Linnsean type, as having given rise to the name brasiliensis). 



Hemirhamphus brasiliensis Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 

 270 (based on Hemirhnmphus broicni Cuv. and Val.) ; ? Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 109 (Panama ; name only) ; 

 ? Jordan .and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 624 (Panama). 



Hemirhamphus balao Le Sueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., ii, 1823. 

 135 (Lesser Antilles). 



Hemirhamphus broicni Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xix, 

 1846, 13 (Guadalonpe ; Martinique). 



Hemirhamphus macrochirus Poey, Memorias, ii, 1858, 299 (Cuba) ; 

 Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 121 (Cuba). 



Habitat. — Coasts of tropical America and West Indies ; 

 Jamaica; Lesser Antilles; Guadaloupe ; Martinique; Cuba; 

 Panama. 



We have not seen this species and are not entirely certain of 

 its distinction from H. pleii. In Hemirhamphus pleii the upper 

 lobe of the caudal is always bright orange-red and the number of 

 scales in a longitudinal series is about 56. The description of 

 H. balao, H. browni and H. macrochirus all refer to a fish with 

 smaller scales, with both lobes of the caudal bluish, and H. 

 browni and H. macrochirus have smaller scales than H. pleii. 

 The specimens obtained by Professor Gilbert at Mazatlan, 

 Panama, we refer provisionally to this species, but they may 

 prove different on actual comparison. The oldest tenable name 

 for this species seems to be H. balao Le Sueur. 



Esox brasiliensis Linnaeus is based on Brown's description of 

 a Hemirhamphus from Jamaica, and Marcgrave 's account of a 




226 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



Tylosurus from Brazil. The name brasiliensis is evidently sug- 

 gested by the latter, which should therefore retain it as specific 

 name. It does not appear also certain as to which species of 

 Hemirhamphus is described by Brown. 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS. 

 (In hundredths of length to base of caudal.) 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 22T 



A BEVIEW OF THE AMEKICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS TEUTHIS. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND MARTIN L. HOFFMAN. 



In the present paper is given the s^monymy of tlie American 

 species of Teuthis L. (^= Acanthurus Forskalj witli an anal^'sis 

 of their most important specific characters. 



Specimens of eacli of three species, which seem to us valid, were 

 obtained by Professor David S. Jordan, at Havana and at Key West. 

 On this material, belonging to the Indiana University and the 

 United States National Museum, the present paper is based. It 

 is possible that other species exist in American waters, but there 

 is certainly nothing in any published description which suggests 

 the probability that such is the case. 



We are indebted to Professor Jordan for use of his library and 

 for valuable aid. 



Analysis of American Species of Teuthis, 



a. Outline rhomboid , the depth 1^ in length to base of caudal ; 

 anterior profile subvertical, nearly straight, making an 

 angle of about 60° with axis of body ; color brown, washed 

 with bright blue ; body marked with undulating longitu- 

 dinal light streaks ; no dark crossbars ; vertical fins with 

 oblique bronze streaks ; lips and caudal spine yellow ; 

 caudal deeply emarginate, its lobes about equal in length ; 

 middle rays about f length of outer rays ; head 3 j in length 

 to base of caudal. D. lX-27 ; A. III-24. cceruleus. 1 



aa. Outline ovate ; the depth 2 in length to base of caudal ; ante- 

 rior profile moderatel}^ convex, making angle of about 45° 

 with axis of body. 



b. Caudal deeply emarginate, its upper lobe longer than lower, 

 slender and produced into a filament, the inner rays | 

 length of the outer rays (in the adult) ; margin of caudal 

 fin whitish ; color dark brown, no transverse bars ; brown 

 wavy longitudinal streaks on sides of body ; eight dark 

 lines running parallel with edge of dorsal fin for its whole 

 length, and separated by interspaces of the same width ; 

 anal fin bluish, with a violet base ; head 3^ in length of 

 body. D. IX-24 ; A. III-22. tractus. 2 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



66. Caudal simply lunate, its inner rays about | length outer 

 ra^'S ; caudal lobes subequal, the upper never filamentous ; 

 color olive-brown, more or less distinctly greenish ; 

 middle of sides paler; sides with about twelve distinct 

 blaclvish vertical bars, ratlier narrower than the inter- 

 spaces, most distinct over front of anal ; a brownish 

 stripe along base of dorsal ; spinous dorsal with alternate 

 stripes running upward and backward, of dark blue and 

 bronze olive, the two colors of about equal width ; soft 

 dorsal with a bluish streak on the anterior side of each 

 ray, and a bronze stripe behind it ; head 3^ in length of 

 body. D, IX-26 ; A. 111-24. hepatus. 3. 



1. Teathis cceruleus. 



Turdus rhomboidalts (The Tang), Catesby, Nat. Hist. Carolina, etc., ii, 



1743, pi. 10, fig. 1 (Bahamas). 

 Teuthis fusca caruleo nitens Brown, Jamaica, 1756, 454 (Jamaica). 

 Barbero Parra, Descr. Dif. Piezas, Hist. Nat,, 1787, 45, Taf. 21, fig. 2 



(Cuba), 

 Acanthurus cceruleus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyoi., 1801, 214 



(after Catesby, Parra & Brown) ; Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. 



Poiss., X, 1835, 179 (Martinique ; Porto Rico ; San Domingo) ; Giinther, 



Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 1861, 336 (Caribbean Sea ; West Indies ; Bahia) ; 



Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 355 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. 



Fish. N. A., 1882, 617, 



Acanthurus broussonnetii Desmarest, Prem, Dec, Ichthyoi., 1823, 26, 



pi. 4, fig. 2 (Cuba). 

 Acanthurus brevis Poey, Memorias, ii, 1860, 207 (Cuba ; young) ; Poey, 



Syn, Pise. Cub,, 1868, 355 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum. Pise, Cub,, 1875, 



66 (Cuba). 



Acronurus cceruleatus Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 69 (Cuba ; larval 

 form). 



Acanthurus nigricans Goode, Bull. U, S. Nat, Mus., 1876, 41 (Bermu- 

 das) (probably not of Linnaeus, a species of unknown oiigin, as yet 

 unrecognized). 



Habitat. — Atlantic shores of tropical America; Cuba; Key 

 West ; Martinique ; Porto Rico ; San Domingo ; Bahia, 



The synonymy and nomenclature of this beautiful species 

 seem to be subject to no doubts of importance. It is rather 

 less abundant at Key West or at Havana than either of the 

 Other species. One specimen corresponding to A. brevis Poey, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 229 



"Was taken at Key "West. This is precisely like the adult, but shows 

 very little blue. 



The species called Acronurus are, as shown by Giinther and 

 Liitken, the young of Teuthis. The three species mentioned by 

 Poey (cceruleatus, nigriculus, carneus) seem to be the young 

 respectively of three species of Acanthurus. One of these, Acro- 

 nurus carneus, was obtained by Prof. Jordan ; we regard it as 

 unquestionably the young of Teuthis hepatus. 



2. Teuthis tractus. 



Acantkurr/s tracfusToej, Memorias, ii, 1860, 208 (Cuba) ; Poey, Rept., 

 186G, 356 (Cuba) ; Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 356 (Cuba) ; Poey, 

 Anales Soc. Hist. Nat. Madrid, 1880, 246 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum. Pise. 

 Cub., 1875, 67 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1882, 108 (Mazatlan ; no descrii tion) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bu'l. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., 18S2, HI (Panama ; no description) ; Jordan& Gilbert, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 377 (Panama ; no description) ; Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 941. 



Acronurus nigriculus Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 69 (Cuba ; larval 

 form) . 



Acanthurus mafoides Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 626 (Panama ; no description ; not of Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Habitat. — Coasts of tropical America ; Cuba ; Panama. Key 

 West ; Mazatlan ; Panama. 



This species may at all ages be known by the form of its caudal. 

 Although in all species the caudal lobes grow longer with age, 

 still very young specimens, as well as old of this species have the 

 caudal more deeply furcate than any of T. hepatus. 



There are also some color differences between the two. 



The single species of Teuthis found on the Pacific coast of 

 tropical America seems to be identical with T. tractus. It is 

 close to A. matoides Cuvier & Yalenciennes, but Prof. Jordan, 

 who has examined the type of the latter in Paris, thinks it 

 different. 



3. Teuthis hepatus. 



Hepatus mucrone reflexo utrinque prope caudam Gronow, Zoophyl, No. 



353. 

 Teuthis hepatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. 12, 1766, 507 (not as 



restricted by Cuvier & Valenciennes ; is based principally on Hepatus 



of Gronow). 

 Acanthurus hepatus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 211 



(in part; not of Cuv. & Val. and later authors). 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Chaodon chirurgus Bloch, Ausl. Fish., 1784, 99, sp. n. 24, taf. 208 

 (on a drawing by Plumier) ; Gmelin, Syst. Nat., 17S9, 1259 (copied). 



Acanthiirus cJdrurgus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichth., l':01, 214 

 (co; ied) ; Cavitr & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., x, 1835, 16S, 

 (Martinique; Brazil; Cuba); Gimther, Cat. Fish. B:if. Mus., iii, 

 1861, 329 (Bahia; Puerto Cabello ; Caribbean Sea ; West Indies) ; 

 Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 355 (Cuba) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1876, 42 (Bermudas) ; Poey, Anal. Soc. Nat. Hist., Madrid, 

 18:0, 245, pi. 6 (Cuba) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 

 237 (name only) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 617. 



Acanthurus pJdebotomus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., x, 

 1835, 176 (Martinique ; Brazil ; Havana ; New York) ; Dekay, New 

 York Fauna Fish, 1842, 139, pi. 73, fig. 234 (copied) ; Poey, Repor- 

 torio, 1867, i, 256 (Cuba) ; Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 245, fig. 7 

 (Cuba) ; Poey, Soc. Hist. Madrid, 18S0, 245 (Cuba). 



Acronunis fuscus Gronow, Cat. Fish., ed. Gray, 1858, 191. 



Acanthurus nigricans Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 941 

 (copied). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of America. Key West; Cuba; 

 West Indies ; Puerto Cabello ; Martinique ; Caribbean Sea ; 

 Brazil ; Bahia. 



This is the most abundant species of the genus, being appar- 

 ently common throughout the West Indies, and certainly so at 

 Cuba and Key West, and ranging northward occasionally on our 

 South Atlantic Coast, perhaps as far as Charleston, but certainly 

 not to New York, where it is reported on the authority of the 

 confused collection of Milbert, 



Two questions arise in the synon3'my of this species ; first, as 

 to the identity of phlebotomus with chirurgus ; second, as to the 

 availability of the Liuuiiean name hepatus and nigricans for it. 

 As to the first point, the description and figure of Cuvier and 

 Valenciennes agree too well with our specimens for us to doubt 

 their identity. Poey recognizes a species, A. phlebotomus^ as 

 distinct from A. chirurgus Poe}^ but . on characters of slight 

 importance and variable with age. The Linnaean name nigricans 

 has been used both for this species and for T. cseruleus. The 

 name is based on a deserii)tion of Artedi, which has been con- 

 sidered b}^ Cuvier and Valenciennes as probably belonging to an 

 Asiatic species. The locality of the original specimen is uncer- 

 tain, and the species cannot be positivelj^ made out. No 

 American species should therefore be called nigricans. 



The name hepatus has been used by Cuvier and Valenciennes 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



for an Asiatic species. The original Teidhis hepatus of Linnaeus 

 is based on various references, including caeruleiis, chirvrgus and 

 the Asiatic species in question. Tiie original type is, however, 

 evidently the Hepatus mucrone rejiexo iitrivqve prope < andam 

 of Gronow, and part of the confusion has come from Gronow's 

 attempt to identify with his specimen the Asiatic references of 

 Yalentyn and others. Gronow's specimen, however, is the type 

 of his Hepatus, and consequently the proper type of Teuthis 

 hepatus Linnseus. This same specimen, Hepatus, became the 

 Acronurus fuscus of Gronow's Systema (Gray), and it is still in 

 the British Museum. Giinther identifies it with Acanthurus 

 chirurgus ; we do not, therefore, see how the substitution of 

 hepatus for chirurgus is to be avoided, if the rules of nomencla- 

 ture are strictly carried out. The same line of argument is used 

 by Cuvier and Valenciennes, but they erroneously supposed 

 Gronow's specimen to be an Asiatic fish. 



Poey has referred the Chsetodon chirurgus of Cuvier and Valen- 

 ciennes to Acanthurus tractus, because of this expression in 

 their description : "La caudale echancree en croissant jusqu'au 

 tiers peu pres de sa longueur ; ses lobes sont arguises en pointe 

 et le superieur est plus long que Tinferieur." This does not 

 indicate the tractus, which has the caudal still more deeply 

 divided, and it is true of the average example of T. hepatus. 

 Acronurus carneas seems to be the young of this species. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



A KEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF SCOMBEROMORUS. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND ROBERT G. NEWLAND. 



In the present paper we have given the synonymy of the four 

 American species of the genus Scomberomorus Lacepede (= Cy- 

 brum Cuvier), and an analytical key, by which the species may be 

 distinguished. 



The specimens upon which the paper is based, belong to the 

 Museum of the Indiana University. The}^ have been collected 

 by Professor Jordan at Key West, Havana, and Monterey. 



We acknowledge our indebtedness to Professor Jordan for the 

 use of his library and for valuable aid. 



Analysis of the American Species of Scomberomorus. 



a. Dorsal spines 11 or 18; lateral line descending obliquely; gill 

 rakers comparatively long, more than half diameter of eye. 



b. Teeth slender, subcorneal, their length more than twice their 

 width at base ; gill rakers long and slender, about f 

 diameter of eye, about 18 below the angle; maxillary 

 reaching to opposite posterior margin of eye. Color of 

 male dark steel-blue, without streaks or spots ; female 

 with two rows of alternating round bronze spots of about 

 the size of pupil; fins nearly plain, dark; head 5^ in 

 length; depth 5|. D. XVII-16-VIII ; A. I-IG-YIII. 



concolor. 1. 



bb. Teeth large, triangular, compressed, their length not twice 

 their breadth at base ; gill rakers rather slender, their 

 length about f diameter of eye; about 12 below the 

 angle. 



c. Color bluish silvery above, with bright reflections ; sides 

 in both sexes, with numerous bronze spots about as 

 large as pupil, no longitudinal stripes ; maxillary 

 reaching to opposite posterior part of orbit; angle of 

 preopercle not produced backwards ; pectoral scaly at 

 base only ; caudal peduncle rather robust, its least 

 depth 4§ in head, caudal widely forked ; head 4| in 

 length ; depth 5^. D. XVIII-18-IX ; A. II-U-VIII. 



maculatus. 2. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



cc. Color silvery ; sides with a brownish, broken, longitudinal 

 band, above and below which are numerous brownish 

 spots ; angle of preopercle produced backwards ; pec- 

 torals scaly ; anterior part of spinous dorsal black ; 

 caudal peduncle rather slender, its least depth 5 ^ in 

 head; caudal less widely forked ; head 4^ in length; 

 depth 5i. D. XVIII-15-YIII ; A. II-15-VIII. 



regalis. 3 



aa. Dorsal spines 14 or 15, lateral line descending abruptly under 

 second dorsal ; teeth comparatively large ; gill rakers very 

 short, less than ^ diameter of eye, about 8 below the angle ; 

 pectorals scaly at base only ; young, with bronze spots ; 

 adult immaculate. cavalla. 4. 



1. Scomberomorus ooncolor. Monterey Mackerel. 



Ohriomitra concolor Lockington, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, 

 134 (Monterey) ; Lockington, Rep. Cal. Fish Comm. (1878-9), 1881, 

 34 (Monterey). 



Scomberomorus concolor Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1880, 4o6 (Monterey, no description) ; Jordan and Joiiy, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 4, 1881, 13 (Soquel, Cal., no description) ; Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 45 (Monterey Bay) ; Jordan 

 and Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 426. 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of United States ; Monterey Bay, 

 all the known specimens having been taken about Soquel and 

 Santa Cruz, whither it resorts every summer for a short time, for 

 the purpose of spawning. Some 15 to 40 specimens only are 

 taken each year. 



2. Scomberomorus maculatus. Spanish Mackerel. 



Scomber maculatus Mitchill, Trans. L(it. and Phil. Soc, i, 1815, 426, pi. 

 6, f. 8 (New York). 



Cybium maculatum Cuvier, Reg, Anim., ed. 2, 1829 (after Mitchill) ; 

 Agassiz, Spix. Pise. Brazil, 1829, p. 103, tab. 60 (Atlantic) ; Cuvier 

 and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 1831, 181 (New York) ; 

 Stoier, Bost. Jour., iv, 1842, 179 (Lynn, Mass.) ; Ayres, Bost. Jour. 

 Nat. Hist., iv, 1842, 261 (Brookhaven) ; De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, 

 Fsh, 1842, 103, pi. 73, f. 232 (Long Island) ; Storer, Synopsis, 1846, 

 92; Baird, Fish N. J. Coast, Itr'SS, 21 (Beaseleys Point) ; Gunher, 

 Cat. Fish. Biit. Mus., ii, 1860, 372; Stonr, Hist. Fish. Mass., 1867, 

 68, pi. 13, f. 1 (Lynn, Mass. ; Proviucetown) ; Gill, Rept. U. S. Fish 

 Comm., 1871-72, 802 (name only) ; Baird, Rept. U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1871-72, 825 (Wqod's Holl), no description; Gill, Cat. Fish. E. 

 X6 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Coast N. A., 1873, 24 (name only) ; Poey, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 



1878, 4 (after Cuvier and Valenciennes) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 375 (Alb^rmarle Sound) ; Goode, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1879, 3 (East, Florida), no descript on ; Goode and Bean, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 128 (Pensacola) ; Goode and Bean, 

 Fish. Essex Co., Mass., 1879, 15 (no description) ; Bean, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1880, 89 (Washington Market), no description. 



Scomberomorus maculatus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1882, 106 (Mazatlan, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., 1882, 110 (Panama, no description) ; Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 426 ; Goode and Bean, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1882, 237 (Gulf of Mexico, no description) ; Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 268 (Pensacola, no descrip- 

 tion) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 594 

 (Charleston, no description) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1882, 625 (Panama, no description) ; Bean, Cat Fish. Exhibi- 

 tion, London, 1883, 51 (Charlotte Harbor, Fla., no description). 



Habitat. — Both coasts of America ; from Lj^nn, Mass., to Key- 

 West ; Mazatlan ; Panama. Not recorded from Cuba or any of 

 the lesser Antilles. 



3. Scomberomorus regalis. Pintado. 



Scomber regalis Bloch, Ausl. Fische, 1795, Taf. 335 (after a drawing 

 by Plumier) ; Bloch and Schneider, Systema. Nat., 1801, 22 (after 

 Bloch). 



Gybium regale Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. ii, 1829 (name only ; after 

 Bloch) ; Cuvier ar.d Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 1831, 184 

 (San Domingo) ; Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., ii, 1868, 326 (Cuba) ; Gill, 

 Kept. U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 802 .(name only) ; Baird, Kept. 

 U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 825 (Wood's Holl ; no description) ; 

 Gill, Cat. Fish East Coast N. A., 1873, 24 (name only) ; Poey, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 4 (Cuba) ; Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 



1879, 3 (East Florida, no description). 



Scomheromorns regahs Goode and Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 237 ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 426. 



Scomberomorus plumieri, Lacepede, iii, 1801, 292 (after Aubriet's copy 

 of Plumier's drawing). 



Gybium aeer^-ira Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 1831, 

 186 (in part; type); Poey, Rcpertorio, i, 1867, 322; ii, 13 (Cuba); 

 Poey, Proc. U S Nat. Mus., 1878, 4 (no description). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of America; Wood's Holl, Mass.; 

 Key West ; Cuba ; San Domingo. More abundant southward ; 

 rare north of Key West. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



4. Soomberomoras oavalla. 



Guarapucu Marcgrave, Hist. Brasil. 1648, 178 (Brazil). 



Cyhium cavalla Cuvier, Regne Animal, 1829, ed, 2d (after Marcgrave). 



Cybium caballa Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., viii, 1831, 

 187 (Brazil I ; Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 1860, 373 (San 

 Domingo); Poey, Report, i, 1867, 323; ii, 13 (Cuba); Guichenot, 

 Sagra, Hist. Cuba Poiss., 1850, 103 (Cuba); Poey, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1879, 3 (East Florida; no description); Poey, Bull. U. S. 

 Fish Comm.. 1882, 118 (no description). 



Scomberomorus caballa Goode & Bean, Proc, TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 237 (no description); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 268 (Pensacola); Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 549 (Charleston; no description); Jordan and Gilbert, Syn. 

 Fish., 1883, 437 (copied). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of America ; Charleston ; Brazil. A 

 food fish of great importance in the West Indies and Southern 

 Florida. It reaches a much larger size than any other. 



The name cavalla, first used by Cuvier, has priority over 

 caballa. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



October t. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Geology of Delaware — Laurentian, 

 Palaeozoic and Cretaceous Areas," by Frederick D. Chester, was 

 presented for publication. 



The death of Geo. Bentham, a correspondent, was announced. 



October 14. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The death of Charles W. Poultney, a member, was announced. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 23t 



PRELIMINAKY NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF DELAWARE— LAURENTI AN, 

 PAL2:0Z0IC AND CRETACEOUS AREAS. 



by frederick d. chester. 



Introduction. 



During the years 1837 and 1838, Professor James C. Booth, in 

 accordance with an act of the State Legislature, made a geolog- 

 ical surA'^ey of Delaware, the results of which were published in 

 a report that appeared in 1841. This old memoir is of great 

 value, both from the accuracy of the author's observations and his 

 minute attention to detail ; I cannot, therefore, expect to supplant 

 it, my aim being an entirely different one, i. e., to so completely 

 reconstruct our geology as to bring it into sympathy with the 

 results of adjacent States. Professor Booth's great and only 

 fault as a geologist lay in his entire indifference to stratigraphical 

 order ; and his classification of deposits according to mineralog- 

 ical and physical characters, leaves one in utter confusion. 



My main object, therefore, is to endeavor to undo the tangles 

 which Professor Booth has unconsciously made, by stating the 

 facts in the briefest and clearest manner possible. 



The results, as embodied in the following paper, are preliminary 

 to what is hoped will be a full report upon the State. 



Geological Outline. 

 The formations represented within the bounds of the State 

 are Laurentian (?), Cambro-Silurian, Silurian-Devonian (?), Creta- 

 ceous, Tertiary and Quarternary. The relations and positions 

 of the several divisions of the chronological scale can be best 

 represented by the accompanying table (I), also the thickness of 

 each formation. Column 2, with which the Delaware series is 

 compared, is constructed according to what seem the best results, 

 combining home and foreign equivalents. The accompanying 

 map (PL V) is drawn upon a scale of four miles to the inch, 

 and is sufficiently large to show all necessary details. A word 

 is here necessary in regard to the boundaries as shown by 

 the map. The lenticular areas which indicate the magnesian 

 marble, can only serve to represent the position of outcrops. 

 Owing to the fact that these calcareous deposits are entirely 

 covered by the micaceous rocks, surface indications offer no 

 means of determining the entire area covered by the former. 




238 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 

 I. 



[1884. 



Owing also to the fewness of the outcrops of the several 

 divisions of the Cretaceous, the boundaries had to be drawn from 

 such data as were accessible, which were in some cases abundant, 

 and in others entirely absent. Sufficient is known, however, to 

 make the writer confident of their general accuracy ; while the 

 missing links of knowledge could only be supplied by expensive 

 borings. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 239 



The Laurentian. — To this belongs the belt of hornblendic 

 rocks above the line of the Pennsjdvania R. R., which to the 

 west is narrow but which, rapidly bi-oadens to the east, as it 

 extends into Delaware county, Pa., and contracting again to a 

 narrow neck at Chester Creek, there connects with another 

 irregular area occupying all the northwestern portion of Delaware 

 county. This area connects with still another to the north, and 

 to the east of West Chester. This rock is a dark hornblendic 

 gneiss or amphibolite schist, dipping usually to the northwest, 

 rarely in the opposite direction. With it is associated a grayish 

 to bluish gray rock, usually finely crystalline, which has been 

 designated as diorite and syenitic granite by the Pennsylvania 

 geologists. Owing to the absence of petrographical facts con- 

 cerning this rock, however, nothing definite can be said concern- 

 ing it. It shades by indistinct degrees into the amphibolite 

 schists, the two varieties probably forming the same eruptive 

 series. 



The Gambro-Silurian. — This formation, so largely developed 

 through the counties of southeastern Pennsylvania, has one area 

 in the northwestern part of Delaware, and two smaller expo- 

 sures. In the northwestern area, a coarse quartzitic rock is 

 found to underlie a highly crystalline magnesian marble. These, 

 as we shall more clearly perceive further on, must be referred 

 respectively to the Potsdam and Calciferous, the latter of which 

 is equivalent to the Lower Magnesian limestone of the West. 



The Mica Schists and Gneisses. — To the north of the belt of 

 Laurentian gneisses, and resting upon the latter, is a series of 

 mica schists and granitic gneisses, with which are associated 

 bedded granites, serpentine, and hornblende rocks. They have 

 commonly been referred to the Mont-Alban, which, together 

 with the older hornblendic rocks, were called Azoic, the two 

 forming a part of the southern gneiss area as known by the 

 Pennsylvania geologists. It will be my aim, shortly, to show that 

 the hornblendic rocks and mica schists do not make two succes- 

 sive formations, within the Azoic, but that, while the former is 

 either Laurentian or Huronian, the latter must be placed above 

 the Trenton, and possibly above the Hudson River, slates. Their 

 exact position in the Palaeozoic scale, however, will probably 

 never be determined, owing to the complete absence of fossil- 

 iferous remains, due to the extreme metamorphism. The rocks 

 have been subjected to great contortion, the strata having been 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



pressed either into close folds, or into broad or contracted 

 anticlinal or synclinal flexures. 



The Cretaceous. — Resting upon the eroded edge of the Azoic 

 rocks are successive series of plastic clays, sand marls and green- 

 sand, which foi'in quite uniform strata, dipping at a low angle to 

 the southeast. This belt, having a width of 18 miles, extends 

 from the hills to the latitude of Noxontown mill pond, just south 

 of Middletown. 



The Tertiary. — The Cretaceous is succeeded by a stratum of 

 white or lead-colored clay, having a thickness of 10 to 20 feet. 

 This continues as far south as Murderkill Creek, and from fossil- 

 iferous evidence, must be referred to the Miocene. 



South of Murderkill Creek, the Miocene is succeeded by 3 to 

 10 feet of light or dark blue clay, beneath which is a uniform 

 stratum of fine glass sand, of at least 40 feet in thickness. That, 

 all the State south of Murderkill is later Pliocene, I shall 

 endeavor to prove in a future paper upon the younger formation. 



All the beds of the Tertiary lie in a nearly horizontal posi- 

 tion, dipping at a still lower angle than the Cretaceous, and 

 probably unconformable to the same. 



The Quarternary. — Covering most of the foregoing formations, 

 and reaching up the flanks of the Azoic hills to the height of 200 

 feet or more above tide, is a layer of sand and gravel, which to 

 the north is of a coarse, red nature, and to the south is fine and 

 white. They are called the Delaware Gravels and Estuary Sands, 

 respectively. Along the river and bay shores is also the belt of 

 bog-clay, which is modern, and of more recent origin than the 

 gravels. Also upon the summits of the highest hills in the State 

 are solitary patches of gravel which are evidently older than the 

 continuous stratum to the south. This high-level gravel, in the 

 absence of proper data, has been problematically referred to the 

 Tertiary, and is known as Bryn Mawr gravel. 



The Crystalline Rocks. 

 Geographical Position. — Generally speaking, the southern line 

 of the Azoic rocks is the limit of the highlands, but in certain 

 places they extend well into more level regions. Beginning with 

 a point upon the Mar3^1and boundar}^, a little north of where the 

 latter is cut by the Mason and Dixon line, the limit of the rocks 

 runs in a northeast direction, cutting through the western end of 

 Newark, and following the northern boundary of the town. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Thence it runs close to the south shore of White Clay Creek to 

 a distance of two miles beyond Roseville, where it makes an 

 abrupt bend to the north, until at Stanton the rocks cease 

 to be found. A mile back of the railroad station, they again 

 appear, continuing to a point about a mile back of Newport, 

 where their course turns slightly to the southeast, crossing 

 the Wilmington turnpike just before it is intersected by the 

 Wilmington Northern R. R., thence it follows the turnpike 

 through the southern half of the city, keeping just north of the 

 Pennsylvania R. R., to a point south of Bellevue, where the 

 line cuts the river. From there the Delaware River marks the 

 southenj boundary. The area as above indicated may be divided 

 into two pretty distinct belts : (1 ) the southern belt of horn- 

 blendic rocks, and (2) the northern belt of micaceous rocks, 

 with which are associated interstratified beds of coarse-grained 

 orthoclase granite, feldspar, quartz and quartzite. 



The boundary line between these two belts can be traced very 

 accurately, and is found to correspond pretty closely with the 

 lines of strike. Beginning with the western boundary of the 

 State, the line follows approximately the coui'se previously 

 traced out, but one-half a mile to the north of the same. It 

 continues thus to a point south of Milltown, when an abrupt 

 turn to the northeast is taken, the line crossing the Brandj^wine 

 only a few miles from the head of the State. It is owing to the 

 northerly course of this line, as compared with the southern 

 limit of the Azoic area, that the northeastern portion of the 

 State is covered more largely with the hornblende, and the' 

 northwestern with the micaceous rocks. 



The Lithology of the Crystalline Rocks. 

 The rocks which cover the crystalline area may be classed as 



follows : — 



( Granite, 



Micaceous < Granitic gneiss, 



l Mica schist. 



Amphibolite schist. 



Hornblendic \ T^^ ^ 



Blue to gray trap. 



/ Marble, 

 Calcareous < r, , • i i t 



[ baccharoidal limestone. 



Serpentine. 

 Quartzite. 

 Vitreous quartz. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Granite. — This rock, as known in the State, is divided into two 

 clashes: (1) that which forms intrusive beds, being a coarsely 

 crystalline orthoclase granite, and (2) that which is nothing more 

 than a highly metamorphosed granitic gneiss, or mica schist, it 

 being a very compact, fine-grained rock. The former variety may 

 be described as an intimate mixture of flesh-colored orthoclase, 

 quartz and muscovite mica, with which are often associated albite 

 and biotite. It occurs as veins, usually bedded, which vary in 

 width from 6 inches to 25 feet, and which, though often continuing 

 in length for several miles, are known to pinch out entirely. 

 The great difference in lithological character between the enclosing 

 rocks and these beds would imply that the latter are veins of 

 plastic injection from aqueo-igneous fusion. That the intrusion 

 of the semi-molten magma was subsequent to the uplifting and 

 crystallizing of the enclosing rocks, is proven by the fact that the 

 latter have, in the vicinity of such veins, suffered considerable 

 disturbance and undue metamorphism at the planes of contact 

 with the intruded mass. The granite is often so highly feld- 

 spathic as to be worked exclusively for this mineral, and when 

 the upper portions of such veins are greatly decomposed, dig- 

 gings have in a few cases been made for kaolin. 



One of the most noticeable of these veins of coarse granite is 

 found to cut across the road leading up the Brandywine, about 

 one and a half miles from the head of the State. A large quarry 

 has been opened in this vicinity, where the rock has been worked 

 for feldspar. The vein is not less than 20 feet wide, on the one 

 side of which is a highly metamorphosed mica schist, and on the 

 other hornblendic gneiss. The rock is a mixture of red ortho- 

 clase, albite, blue quartz, and muscovite, the crystals being some- 

 times so large that perfect specimens of feldspar several i inches 

 square, can be obtained. Large hexagonal plates of mica, many 

 of them 6 inches across, are also found in abundance. The same 

 feldspar is worked three miles to the northeast, probably from the 

 same vein, as near as could be determined ; while in the other 

 direction the intrusive mass seems to lose itself. 



Another equally wide vein cuts across the Newark and Avon- 

 dale R. R., at Tweed's mill, two miles north of Newark. A 

 faulting plane cuts through this intrusive bed, possibly due to its 

 disturbing action. 



The same rock is found to continue two miles and a half to the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 243 



northeast, outcropping upon the run to the south of Pleasant Hill 

 P. 0. Many other instances of granite veins might be cited, but 

 with nothing new regarding them. All of the large veins men- 

 tioned above are exclusive of the smaller seams, which vary in 

 width from a few inches to a foot, and which are liable to be found 

 anywhere, and frequently, within the micaceous belt. 



The second class of granite — a highly changed gneiss or schist — 

 is a fine-grained rock containing quartz, plagioclase and biotite, 

 with the quartz subject to considerable variation. 



It occurs as massive beds, the planes of the stratification being 

 so completely obliterated that the rock resembles a true trap. 

 That it is not trappean, however, is shown by the fact that it is 

 seen to run, by indistinct degrees, into mica schist. Such rocks ai'e 

 usually much broken up, thus testifying to an undue mechanical 

 activity, itself the cause of the extreme metamorphism. 



Granitic Gneiss and Mica Schist. — These two species represent 

 the extremes of variation in what is the characteristic rock of the 

 micaceous belt, which has gone by the generally applicable name 

 of gneiss. These two rocks so merge into each other that specific 

 designation is often difficult. The typical mica schist may be 

 described as a very schistose biotite rock, usually highly garnet- 

 iferous, and containing a variable proportion of quartz. Some- 

 times this highly micaceous rock contains a very small proportion 

 of feldspar, which can often only be seen as a kaoline substance 

 in the decomposed product ; and if the absence of feldspar be 

 characteristic of mica schist, then with the presence of feldspar 

 the true schists begin to run into gneiss. 



Hornblende Bocks. — The hornblende rocks, as a class, may be 

 divided into the basic and acidic, or into those rocks of which the 

 predominating constituent is either hornblende or feldspar. To 

 the former belong the dark varieties of amphibolite schist and 

 syenitic gneiss, and to the latter belongs the light, highly acidic 

 bluish gray trap so characteristic of the northeastern part of the 

 State. Between these two extremes there is every shade of 

 gradation, showing some petrographical relation between them. 

 The dark varieties of amphibolite schist vary in color from a blue 

 to a dull black, from coarsely crystalline to compact. The pre- 

 dominating element is hornblende, with which is associated a 

 small proportion of plagioclase, and sometimes blue quartz. This 

 rock, which shows a more or less eminent lamination, is found 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



to merge into a massive rock of the same composition. When 

 the proportion of hornblende increases, it becomes so great as 

 to make up, apparently, the entire composition, in which case the 

 syenitic gneiss runs into the hornblende schist or into massive 

 hornblende rock. The bluish gray trap may be described as 

 follows : in color it A^aries from a light to a dark bluish gray ; in 

 texture, from a coarsely crystalline to one fine-grained, homo- 

 geneous and trappean in character. 



Lithologically, the rock is composed of plagioclase, feldspar 

 and hornblende, with frequently a small proportion of blue 

 quartz and biotite. 



Massive hypersthene has often been found in fine orthorhombic 

 crystals, entirely replacing the hornblende, and is associated with 

 a plagioclase showing the most eminent striation. Thus, from 

 microscopical examination, the rock seems to range from a quartz 

 diorite to a true hyperite^ although no true knowledge of the 

 rock can be had until a thorough microscopical stud}^ is made. 

 Professor G. H. Williams,^ of Johns Hopkins University, has 

 proven a similar rock, in the vicinity of Baltimore, to be a 

 hypersthene gra66ro, which also runs by indistinct stages into a true 

 amphiholite schist. He has also shown that the amphibolite is the 

 result of a paragenesis taking place in the gabbro, the hypersthene 

 and pyroxene found in the latter being altered to hornblende, and 

 thus producing the gradual passage of gabbro into amphibolite. 

 Whether some such alteration as this can account for the passage 

 of the bluish gray trap into amphibolite schist is quite within the 

 range of possibility. This question has already become a subject 

 of iuA^estigation by the writer, and it is hoped that much light 

 will be thrown upon it. 



Calcareous Bocks. — To this class belong those rocks generally 

 called crystalline limestone, of which there are two varieties, 

 namely, saccharoidal limestone and marble. They are found at 

 three known localities, one near Pleasant Hill, one at Hockessin 

 and another near CenJ^eville, both varieties occurring together. 



The marble may be described as very coarsely crystalline. It 

 is very compact in texture, of superior hardness, and is always 

 heavily and closely bedded. The variet}" called saccharoidal 

 limestone is more granular and extremely friable. It is also 



^ Am. Jour, of Sci., October, 1884, and Johns Hopkins Univ. Circular, 

 April, 1884. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



less pure, being often colored by oxide of iron or organic matter, 

 and is much more thinly bedded, the thinner seams being inter- 

 stratified with the heavily bedded marble. 



Scrientine. — About six miles northeast of Wilmington a huge 

 dike of serpentine runs with the micaceous schists. Its length 

 can be traced by outcropping boulders for a distance of a mile, 

 with a width of a quarter of a mile. The rock varies from one 

 tough and massive to one soft and highly decomposed, with 

 which are associated talc and magnesite. 



Vitreous Quartz and Quartzite. — The former rock occurs as 

 regular thin or massive seams interstratified with the micaceous 

 rocks. It varies from a glassy colorless variety to one of milky 

 and opaque whiteness. The quartzite, which is found in the 

 northwest corner of the State, underlying the limestone, is 

 probably of Potsdam age. It is a very coarse quartzite rock, 

 which contains, frequently, crystals of tourmaline, Jibrolite and 

 actinolite. 



Structural Relations of the Crystalline Rocks. 



Strike and Dip. — The rocks of this formation, except in a very 

 few cases, are all stratified with variations of bedding, from that 

 as thin as slate in the mica schists to that so heavy as to resemble 

 massive trap intrusions. Both strike and dip are subject to 

 great variation. A dip to the southeast for a long distance, with 

 an opposite dip along a section only two miles and a half to the 

 northeast, can be accounted for only by supposing an unequal 

 thrust from the direction of the contorting force. In fact, out of 

 five different sections made across the Azoic belt at various 

 points of its length, no two showed the same arrangement of 

 strata — from which we conclude that the thrusting force must 

 have acted very unequally along the entire length of the belt, 

 sometimes merely tilting the strata ; again, standing them on 

 edge, and j-et again, completely overturning them ; in some 

 places pressing them into close folds for a part or the entire 

 length of the section, in others leaving gentle or abrupt anti- 

 clinal and synclinal folds. 



Both strike and dip are also found to be subject to variations 

 from the disturbing action of granitic intrusions. At Dixon's 

 spar quarry the change is from N. 55° E. to N. 22° E. At Pleasant 

 Hill a granitic rein cuts through the limestone, which causes a 




246 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884, 



disturbance from N. 55° E. to N. 10° E. Excluding cases of local 

 distortion, however, the crystalline rocks range in strike between 

 N. 45° E. to N. 60° E., and in dip from nearly vertical to nearly 

 horizontal. 



Dikes. — We have already spoken of the granite and serpentine 

 as intrusive, forming in certain cases true beds, and again, show- 

 ing genuine vein structure with numerous branchings. Regard- 

 ing the structural relations of the bluish gray trap, there are as 

 yet some doubts. The geologists of the Second Pennsylvania 

 Survey have spoken of it as forming massive trap intrusions 

 between hornblende gneiss — of which the latter is metamorphic. 



This theory, I am inclined to think, will prove to be a mistaken 

 one. In Delaware, as we have said, the gray acided rock runs by 

 indistinct gradations into true araphibolite schist, the many 

 stages of variations being sometimes witnessed in a single quarry, 

 without the slightest structural distinctions. Seams of the gray 

 trap have been seen running through the black hornblende gneiss, 

 but without the least signs of intrusion. That the bluish gray 

 trap may occupy irregular patches more or less lenticular, is no 

 doubt true, but the latter can in no sense be regarded as forming 

 dikes between a metamorphic schist ; on the other hand, all the 

 rocks of the hornblendic belt, from the most acidic gray trap to 

 the true amphibolite schist, belong to a single series of eruptive 

 rocks, having wide lithological variations. That these variations 

 may be the result of a subsequent paramorphosis taking place in 

 the bluish gray trap is quite possible ; it is therefore to be hoped 

 that present petrographical studies of the hornblendic rocks of 

 the State will throw more light on this important question. 



Contortion of Strata. — The crystalline rocks offer the most 

 complicated and striking examples of contortion, presenting 

 nothing, however, which is not characteristic of all metamorphic 

 areas. Close folding is the form generally seen, the line of 

 bedding being either straight, gently or violently contorted. 

 Abrupt anticlinal and synclinal folding is also common, these 

 complex folds being, however, very irregular and much twisted. 



Age and Stratigraphical Order. — ^^The crystalline rocks may be 

 divided into four groups, which have a fixed stratigraphical 

 relation to each other, namely, the hornblendic, the micaceous, 

 the calcareous and the quartzitic. 



The normal order of arrangement of these strata, and thereby 




1884.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 24t 



their relative age, is a point upon which there has been mnch 

 difference of opinion, owing to the confusing arrangement of the 

 strata throughout some of the counties of southeastern Pennsyl- 

 vania. Notwithstanding such difficulties, the geologists who have 

 discaided broad generalizations, and devoted themselves to the 

 study of local details, find the way gradually opening to a better 

 understanding of the truth ; and the early presumption that the 

 mica schists and gneisses are of Paleozoic age, is rapidly becoming 

 a matter of general acceptation. The latest results of geological 

 study in Pennsylvania, together with the observations of the 

 writer throughout Northern Delaware, tend to show quite con- 

 clusively that the crystalline rocks represent the following ages : 

 (1) The Laurentian (?) including the rocks of the hornblendic 

 belt ; (2) the Potsdam, to which the quartzitic and sand rocks 

 belong; (3) the Calciferous, including the magnesian marbles, 

 and (4) the age of the mica schists, which must be placed some- 

 where above the Trenton, and, according to Mr. Charles E. Hall, 

 above the Hudson River, slates. With these points in view, we 

 shall proceed with the demonstration. 



The Laui'entian (?) — The so-called Laurentian area of Delaware 

 is but a continuation of identical areas in southeastern Pennsyl- 

 vania, within the Philadelphia belt, which, according to Mr. Hall, 

 are three in number, each connected with the other by a narrow 

 neck, and each situated successively to the northeast. The 

 southernmost of these areas is of lenticular shape, reaching from 

 Chester Creek, and spreading out over the southern part of Dela- 

 ware County, whence it extends into the State of Delaware, as 

 shown upon the map. Northeast of this patch, and to the north- 

 west of Media, is another area of irregular form, while a third — a 

 long east and west belt — runs from West Chester, south of Con- 

 shohocken, eastward to the Delaware River, near Trenton. Thus 

 the Delaware Laurentian forms the southernmost tongue of the 

 one Laurentian area of the Philadelphia belt, the upper portion 

 of which has been for a long time known as the Third Belt of 

 Rogers. As regards the age of the Third Belt, Mr. Hall says, 

 " The rocks of the Third Belt are identical with the granitoid and 

 syenitic rocks of the Welsh Mountain, north of the Chester 

 County limestone valley. These rocks of the Welsh Mountain 

 are similar in all respects to the crystalline rocks extending into 




248 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. , 



Pennsylvania from New Jersey. In New Jersey they are iden- 

 tified as belonging to the Laurentian." 



With these points in view, I have followed Mr. Hall, and placed 

 the syenitic rocks of Delaware in the Laurentian, although I feel 

 that it is, at best, but a problematical designation. Any positive 

 declaration upon this point would be premature, until a more 

 thorough structural and petrographical study has been finished, 

 together with a comparison of results from diverse localities. 

 Throughout southeastern Pennsj^lvania the hornblendic rocks are 

 always stratigraphicall}'- the lowest, and such is the case in 

 northern Delaware. 



The general dip of the syenitic rocks, upon the flanks of which 

 rest the strata of the micaceous belt, is, in the latter locality, to 

 the northwest. In the western part of the State, however, the 

 hornblendic rocks have experienced an overthrow, whereby they 

 dip to the southeast, in which case the hornblendic rocks are 

 apparently the younger. This peculiarity need not, however, be 

 misleading as to true stratigraphical order. Putting aside all 

 questions of position of strata, one must note the decidedly 

 primitive aspect of these rocks, which, in lithological characters, 

 are identical with the rocks of more northern portions of the 

 Laurentian area. 



The Potsdam. — In the northwestern part of Mill Creek Hundred, 

 a triangular area of Potsdam sandstone is seen upon the map, 

 which, rising from beneath a patch of Brj^n Mawr gravel, extends 

 into Pennsjdvania, and is best exposed beyond the State line. At 

 Kivin's limestone quarry, a mass of quartzite forms what is clearly 

 an anticlinal fold, over which is a corresponding anticlinal of 

 magnesian limestone. The anticlinal structure of the quartzite is 

 further shown at a few other points, where dips both to the north- 

 west and southeast are noted. 



The Galciferous — Mr. Hall divided the limestone of south- 

 eastern Pennsylvania into two groups, namely, the Galciferous 

 magnesia limestones and marbles, and the possible Trenton lime- 

 stones and slates, the former comprising the rocks of the Chester 

 County limestone valley, and several outlying troughs to the 

 south, the latter those alternations of slate and limestone which 

 form the outer border of the Calciferous belt. 



The limestone areas of Delaware belong to the lower of the 

 above groups, or to the Calciferous of Mr. Hall, the equivalent of 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 249 



the Lower Magnesian limestone of the West. The magnesian 

 marble which outcrops beyond the State line, at Nivin's, runs into 

 Delaware, and appears at the surface in the Jackson quarry at 

 Hockessin. Here the rock forms a clearly defined anticlinal fold. 

 The bending, both to the northwest and southeast, being observed 

 within the cutting. The limestone is overlaid by the mica schists 

 which, to the north of the pit, dip to the northwest, and to the 

 south, southeast, forming an anticlinal fold capping the limestone. 



To the southeast of Centreville, the limestone occupies the 

 same stratigraphical position as in the case just mentioned. At 

 Pleasant Hill the bending of the schists over a saddle of limestone 

 is beautifully shown in the quarry cutting, furnishing clear proof 

 as to the superior position of the mica schists. 



The Mica Schist and Gneiss. — The inference that these rocks 

 were primal, was based largely upon their lithological similarity 

 to many of the older crystalline schists. They were hence referred 

 to the White Mountain, or the Rocky Mountain, series. But litho- 

 logical similarities must invariably bend to higher statigraphical 

 evidence. In Delaware the micaceous rocks overlie the limestone, 

 and no readjustment of position can make the arrangement other- 

 wise. They are, therefore, younger than the limestone, which, in 

 its turn, is younger than the underlying Potsdam. 



The Calciferous limestone can hardly be referred to any other 

 position, and, invariably underlying the schists, the latter must 

 begin somewhere in the Silurian, and, possibly, mount as high up 

 as the Devonian. 



The Cretaceous. 



Geographical Extent. — The Cretaceous of Delaware, a continu- 

 ation of the same formation as developed in New Jersey, extends 

 across the State as a northeast and southwest belt, with a 

 breadth of 18, and a length of from 15 to 20 miles, covering a 

 total area of about 250 square miles. The northern limit of the 

 belt, laid down on the map, has already been traced out as marking 

 the southern boundary of the Laurentian. The southern limit 

 runs a little to the south of, and parallel with, Appoquinimink 

 Creek, cutting through the centre of Noxontown mill-pond, and 

 thence proceeds in a straight southeasterly direction. 



Subdivisions. — The formation may be divided into a number ot 

 subdivisions, based upon lithological grounds, the period ot 

 sedimentation extending through the whole Cretaceous ; i. e., 

 17 




250 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1884. 



Lower, Middle and Upper, of the English geologists. The divi- 

 sions can be best represented by the following table, which is also 



n. 



TJppEK Cretaceous 

 (Chalk). 



Middle Marl Bed. 



Yellow Sand. 

 Shell Layer." 



Pure Green Sand. 



Indurated Marl 

 Bed. . . . 



Middle Cretaceous 

 (Upper Green Sand,Gaiilt). 



Lower Cretaceous 

 (Wealden?). 



Lower Marl Bed, 



Indurated Marl. 



Red Sand. 



Black Argillo-Micaceous 



Marl, 



Shell Marl, 

 Cretoidal Marl. 



Sand Marl, 



Plastic Clays. 



Sand and Clay Marls. 



Red Clay. 



Fire-Clays and Sands. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 251 



constructed with a view of showing the relative thickness of each 

 of the groups. In the classification the plastic clays have been 

 placed in the Lower Cretaceous, and are probably the exact 

 equivalent of the Wealden, while the marl deposits, ranging from 

 the Lower to the Middle Beds, can, upon palseontological 

 grounds, be referred with considerable confidence to the Upper 

 Cretaceous, or Chalk. The Sand Marl formation can at best be 

 placed in but an intermediate position, but is probably nearly 

 akin to the marls, all of the . fossils ever found within the sand 

 marls of New Jersey having been the characteristic species of the 

 marl beds proper. 



Structure. — The different subdivisions of the Cretaceous foi-m 

 uniform beds, dipping at a low angle to the southeast. Having 

 been successively deposited upon a gently sloping bed, they 

 have remained in the same position, with no subsequent disturb- 

 ance. The general direction of strike can be seen from the 

 trend of the various belts. A line joining the point of contact 

 between the Cretaceous, at Newark, with a similar point back of 

 Newport, upon nearly the same level, ran N. 72° E., which 

 course, being approximately parallel with the lines of the lower 

 belts, may fairly represent the strike of the formation. The dip 

 was determined with great accuracy at Summit Bridge, about 

 midway of the width of the Cretaceous. At this place the canal 

 excavation has reached a depth of 10 feet, and continues several 

 miles to the westward, with gradually lowering banks. Upon 

 both sides of this wide cutting, the marl outcrops as a well- 

 defined laji-er, and as any number of lines in the direction of the 

 dip can be obtained, the amount of pitch can be accurately deter- 

 mined. As the transit could always be placed upon either bank 

 in front of the escarpment of marl, and the other side could be 

 easily seen, the operation of determining the difference in level 

 between the two outcrops, on a line running S. 30° E., was not 

 difficult. This difference in level, combined with the angle of 

 depression, as determined by the vernier, would give the data for 

 ascertaining the distance between the outcrops, the latter of 

 which varied from 300 to 400 feet. The results of the observa- 

 tions give a dip of 45 feet to the mile. 



Plastic Clays. 



This formation is the thickest member of the Cretaceous. Its 

 southern line begins a few miles south of New Castle, and extends 




252 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



in a southeasterly direction to just below Red Lion, crossing the 

 railroad between Porter's and Kirkwood, and cutting the State 

 line two miles north of Chesapeake Cit3\ Although of so much 

 importance, it is, owing to the great thickness of the overlying 

 gravels, rarely exposed, and even when more favorable opportu- 

 nities are offered, but a few feet of the characteristic Red Clay 

 appear above the surface. The formation is divided into the 

 uppermost Red Clays, and the lowermost White Clays, of which 

 the former is the deposit commonly exposed. 



Red Clay. — This is a highly plastic clay, of a vermilion-red 

 color, remarkably free from grit, and cutting with great smooth- 

 ness. It is identical with the red terra-cotta clays of Perth 

 Amboy, N. J., and may prove to be their equal in quality. The 

 Red Clay forms uniform beds, with which are sometimes inter- 

 stratified thin seams of fire-clay, making a total thickness of at 

 least .50 feet. White Clays. — The series of white clays and sands 

 lying beneath the stratum of red, reach to a great depth below the 

 surface, and have not yet been wholly penetrated by the deepest 

 boring made. The outcrop is upon the lowest ground, of which 

 the only locality discovered lay a little to the south of New Castle, 

 on the river shore. Here the white clay outcrops for a depth of 

 from 10 to 15 feet, giving the following section : 



1. Sandy fire-clay, . . .3 feet. 



2. Mottled clay, .... 3 feet. 



3. A very pure fat fire-clay at water-level. 



The lowermost clay of this section is of an unusually fine 

 quality, and has in past years been worked below water-level, 

 and shipped to Trenton potteries. From this exposure we are 

 enabled to see that the White Clay series, outcropping as it does 

 at water-level, covered by a red stratum, and again by some 30 

 feet of gravel, is entirely out of the reach of study ; yet the pre- 

 sumption that it does lie deeply buried is beyond controvers3\ 

 Our only means of studying the White Clay series is by means of 

 borings, which are very rare, and in no cases have accurate 

 records of the deposits passed through been preserved. We only 

 know that the borings yielded alternate layers of white clays and 

 sands to a depth of 200 feet. We therefore judge that this series 

 presents strong analogies to the white clays of New Jersey. 




1884.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 253 



Sand Marl. 

 The belt of sand marl runs from the river course to the south 

 of New Castle, gradually tapering in breadth as the Maryland 

 boundary line is reached. The southern limit of the belt, starting 

 at Delaware City, cuts the north corner of St. George's, and 

 keeps about a mile above the canal for the remaining distance 

 across the State. It may be described as a j^ellow sand, of a 

 greenish tinge, comprising a yellow siliceous sand mixed with 

 some green sand and a variable proportion of argillaceous matter. 

 No data are at hand for determining its thickness, except the 

 imperfect method of using width of outcrop and angle of dip, 

 according to which we find the sand marl stratum to have a 

 depth of 90 feet. 



Marl Beds. 



The marl beds cover a comparatively small area in the State, 

 and are practically limited to that division of New Castle county 

 called St. George's Hundred. 



The first important outcrops of green sand occur along the 

 Delaware and Chesapeake Canal, the channel of which cuts 

 deep into the formation. Its northern limit, as determined by 

 old marl pits, runs approximately parallel with the canal, keeping 

 a distance of from a quarter of a mile to a mile. From this line 

 the marl extends southward to another boundary parallel with, 

 and about one mile south of, Appoquinimink Creek, where it 

 gives place to the Tertiary clays. 



Subdivisions. — The divisions of the green sand formation are 

 found, with two exceptions, to correspond with those made by 

 the New Jersey Surve3^ In the first place, what is called by 

 Professor Cook the Upper Marl bed, is in Delaware, entirely 

 absent, and in the second place, the so-called Bed sand is either 

 entirely absent, or represented, as in the eastern part of the 

 State, by a much thinner stratum than is found in New Jersey. 

 This scanty development of the Bed sand is, however, compen- 

 sated for by a greater thickness of the Indurated green marl, 

 which, in Delaware, becomes the prominent parting laj'er between 

 the middle and lower marl beds. The chronological chart of 

 the Cretaceous (II), will show the divisions of the marl beds as 

 found in the State. 



Lower Marl Bed. 



This stratum, which extends as a narrow belt on each side of 

 the canal, is found to outcrop along the entire length of the 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



same, rising about a foot above the surface of the water, and, 

 farther west, to a height of 20 feet. The several subdivisions of 

 the lower marl will be treated in the order of their age. 



Gretoidal Marl. — This lowest layer is a tough, bluish black 

 marl, which, upon drying, turns to a lighter ashen or earthen 

 color, when it is found to be made of a large amount of green 

 sand, siliceous sand and argillaceous matter. The solid particles 

 are coated with chalky carbonate of lime, which, under the 

 microscope, appears as a fine white powder of a granular char- 

 acter, but often light and flocculent. 



Shell Layer. — The cretoidal marl is always found beneath a 

 layer of shells or shell marl, having a thickness of about 3 feet. 

 In fact, the shells are usually mixed with a greater or less 

 quantity of the black earthy marl having the characters of the 

 cretoidal variety. The shells are usually the characteristic 

 species of the New Jersey equivalents, the most abundant being 

 the clumsy Exogyra costata with Pychnodonta vesicularis and 

 Ostrea larva. 



Black Argillaceous and Micaceous Marl. — This layer, over- 

 lying the shells, in its lower part possesses somewhat the charac- 

 ters of the cretoidal marl. To the west of the Delaware railroad, 

 however, it rises well out of the water of the canal, and assumes 

 a distinctly argillaceous nature, becoming a black micaceous clay. 

 It also shows an entire absence of calcareous matter, and pos- 

 sesses a decidedly styptic taste, due to the large quantity of 

 sulphate of iron in the percolating waters. This argillaceous 

 marl, when examined in the dry state by a glass, is found to be 

 composed of minute sharp glassy particles of quartz, coated with 

 a grayish dust, and associated with a few green sand particles of 

 unusual fineness, together with a considerable quantity of minute 

 scales of muscovite. 



Thickness. — Fortunately we have sufficient evidence for meas- 

 uring accurp,tely the thickness of the lower marl bed. The belt 

 has an average breadth of 1^ miles, which, with a dip of 40 feet 

 to the mile, would give a thickness of 60 feet for the stratum. 

 At Summit Bridge, the black marl outcrops to a height of 42 to 

 47 feet. ^Calling it 40, and adding this to 15 feet of marl in 

 Higgin's pit, on much lower ground between St. George's and 

 Delaware City, we get a total of 55 feet. Since the 15 feet 

 excavation at the latter place f?iiled to entirely peijetrate the 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



marl, we may call 60 feet a safe estimate for the thickness of the 

 lower marl bed. Of this total, more than one-half is represented 

 by the argillo-micaceous layer, and the remainder by the thin 

 shell layer, and the lowest cretoidal marl. There is one reason 

 why the thickness of the lower marl stratum, as developed at 

 Summit Bridge, should be employed in a calculation of the 

 thickness, rather than the smaller figures obtained farther to the 

 east or west. Summit Bridge is on the dividing ridge. From 

 this meridional line, the land slopes to the east and west. The 

 marl, therefore, offers a diminishing thickness of outcrop as the 

 river is approached, owing to the erosion of the upper argillo- 

 micaceous stratum, which, in the neighborhood of St. George's, 

 and thence to Delaware City, has been thinned down to a thick- 

 ness of only a few feet. It is for this reason that the upper 

 portion of the lower marl bed is so extensively developed at the 

 western end of the belt, while the lower portion of the same for- 

 mation is confined to the eastern portion of the belt. Since the 

 upper argillo-micaceous stratum is a poor, and even objectionable, 

 material for fertilizing purposes, while the contrary may be said 

 of the lower cretoidal variety, the locality for marl diggings 

 must lie east of the railroad bridge. 



Induratep Marl Bed. 



The northern limit of this belt, which is also the southern 

 limit of the lower marl bed, starts near the mouth of Scott's run, 

 and thence keeps parallel with the canal to the railroad, when it 

 begins slightly to diverge, cutting the headwaters of the northern 

 branch of the Bohemia River. The southern limit of the belt 

 can only be approximately outlined, but as can best be determined 

 runs from Port Penn through the headwaters of Drawyer's 

 Ureek, and crosses the Maryland line four miles below the head 

 of Bohemia River. The indurated marl stratum is divided into 

 two layers, the lower red sand, and the upper indurated marl. 



Bed Sand. — The formation which has been called the indurated 

 marl bed is the equivalent of the red sands of the New Jersey 

 geologists, it being, in both cases, the prominent parting layer 

 between the lower and middle marl. Along the south side of the 

 canal, between the railroad bridge and St. George's, a soft reddish 

 yellow sand of uniform character rests upon a stratum of black 

 marl, It is deyeloped to a considerable thickness in the neigh- 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



borhood of the latter town, and is characterized b3' the numerous 

 particles of green sand contained in it. The thickness could not, 

 however, be accurately determined, running as it does, indistinctly 

 into the overlying gravels. West of the railroad, the deposit 

 thins out entirely, and does not again appear. Along the ravine 

 made by Scott's Run the red sand has been found Ijing upon the 

 shell marl, running to the south into a black decomposed green 

 sand. Notwithstanding the deposit of red sand, which outcrops 

 along the south shore of the canal, the shell marl is dug by several 

 parties on a strip along the same side, and for this reason, I have 

 extended the southern limit of the lower marl belt slightly to the 

 south of the southern shore of the canal. 



Considering the foregoing facts, the writer with some trouble 

 that cannot well be removed, has referred the reddish yellow sand 

 stratum to the red sand of Prof. Cook. This red sand occupies 

 a narrow strip along the south side of the canal, to the east of 

 the railroad, and runs to the south beneath the overlying stratum 

 of decomposed marl, by which nearly the whole area of the bed 

 as previously marked out, is covered. From this we see that the 

 true red sand, which is so extensively developed in New Jersey 

 has a less thickness in Delaware, but is replaced by the indurated 

 marl, which in New Jersey is found more thickly exposed, but 

 occupying the same stratigraphical position above the red sand. 



Indurated Oreen Sand. — This marl attracts from the observer 

 more attention than any other, coming to the surface as it does 

 in numerous localities, and having been extensively worked for 

 its pre-eminent qualities as a fertilizer. 



Already in a state of partial decomposition, the decay rapidly 

 progresses by the removal of the potash, and the oxidation of the 

 ferous salt of iron, or its direct solution by carbonated water. 

 Generall}^ speaking, the marl in the bed is of a black, loamy 

 nature which, when dry, assumes a brownish or grayish tinge. It 

 is made of a variable quantity of green sand, with a large pro- 

 portion of siliceous sand. In some places the marl is found to 

 contain a large amount of argillaceous matter, while again it is 

 extremely clean and dry. It differs entirely from the lower marl, 

 by containing no carbonate of lime in the pulverent state ; but 

 in certain places the deposit abounds in shells, which renders it 

 comparable with the shell marl of the former formation. 



Examined with a glass, the grains of indurated marl prove of 




1884.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25t 



a brownish color, and very rough and irregular, apparently the 

 effect of weathering. The grains can easily be crushed by the 

 finger-nail, thus exposing the internal green color. The granules 

 are coated with a laj'er of brown oxide of iron, within which shell 

 exists the unchanged nucleus of glauconite. 



The Indurated Marl, unless finely pulverized, has a lumpy ten- 

 dency, caused by numerous grains of green sand cemented by 

 the brown oxide of iron. In fact, the marl has, at certain points, 

 been almost entirely changed to brown oxide of iron, while in 

 other cases, seams of the latter penetrate the mass of the green 

 sand. Prof. Cook is of the opinion that the red sand of New 

 Jersey is due to the decomposition of green sand, whereby the 

 soluble salts have been carried away, leaving the insoluble siliceous 

 sand and red oxide of iron. We may, therefore, regard the belt, 

 which in New Jersey is called the red sand, and in Delaware the 

 indurated marl, as a true marl belt in a greater or less degree of 

 decomposition ; and while a slightly indurated green sand may 

 entirely differ mineralogically from a red siliceous sand, the dif- 

 ference is after all only one of degree of decomposition. 



Middle Marl Bed. 



This belt crosses the State with a uniform breadth of three and 

 a half miles, the northern line running from Port Penn, a little 

 north of Draw3'er's creek, and crossing the State line four miles 

 south of the Bohemia River. The southern line crosses the centre 

 of Noxontown mill-pond, keeping parallel with and a little south 

 of Appoquinimink creek. The middle marl bed (see II) is 

 divided into three very distinct layers: (1) A lowermost pure 

 green sand ; (2) an intermediate layer of friable shells, and (3) 

 an upper yellow or reddish 3ellow sand. The characters of these 

 several strata will be considered as follows : — 



Green Sand Layer. — This lowermost subdivision of the middle 

 marl bed occupies the main width of the belt to the north of 

 Appoquinimink Creek, and exhibits its principal exposures along 

 Drawyer's Creek and Silver Run, where its characters may be well 

 studied. It differs entirely from any of the foregoing varieties, 

 in that it is entire!}- free from calcareous matter, and shows none 

 of the general induration so characteristic of the previous forma- 

 tion. On the contrary, it is a very dry, pure green sand, which 

 varies in color from a deep bluish to a yellowish green, the latter 

 shade being due to a considerable admixture of siliceous sand. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



The extreme dryness of this marl, compared with the preceding 

 varieties, is owing to the complete absence of argillaceous matter. 

 The grains, when examined, are smooth and well rounded, and 

 although frequently so soft as to be easily crushed by the nail, 

 show no evidence of chemical decomposition. 



Shell Layer. — This intermediate, well-defined layer, is best 

 exposed at the head of Noxontown mill-pond, and along the south 

 side of Appoquinimink Creek. In thickness it varies from 3 to 10 

 feet, being entirely made up of white friable shells, tightly packed 

 together, the most common of which are Terehratula fragalis and 

 T. Harlani^i with Pychnodonta vesicularis. 



Very often the upper part of the shell layer has lost its carbo- 

 nate of lime, which is replaced by brown oxide of iron. At the 

 head of Noxontown milLpond, the white shell layer, of which the 

 upper part is ferruginous, rises 5 to 6 feet out of the water, 

 capped by a yellow sand marl. 



Yellow Sand. — This is the uppermost laj-er of the Middle 

 Marl Bed, and is alwaj^s found associated with and overlying the 

 shells. It may be described as a yellowish or reddish sand, con- 

 taining a small and variable proportion of glauconite, the latter 

 often becoming so predominant as to give the deposit a decidedly 

 greenish tinge. 



DiORiTic Trap. 



Three miles to the south of Newark, Delaware, Iron Hill rises 

 from the Cretaceous plane, the one conspicuous object for 10 

 miles or more. Running in a generally northwest and southeast 

 direction, it has a length of over 3 miles, a width varying from 

 1 mile to 1^, and a height of 225 feet. The flanks and summits 

 of this hill are covered with boulders of diorite and cellular 

 quartz. On the south side, about half way up, is seen the 

 outcrop of a bedded mass of serpentine rook, with a strike 

 following the trend of the hill. An examination of the loose frag- 

 ments of gTcen rock lying upon the surface showed them to be 

 composed of a number of indefinite chloritic and serpentine 

 materials in a state of partial decomposition. As the greenish 

 fragments were also observed to run into unchanged trap, 

 occurring as huge outcropping boulders, the proof appeared 

 conclus^ive that the serpentine rock had been due to the alteration 

 of the hornblende in the dioritic trap. Following the hill in its 

 northwest course, we find the same rock crossing the railroad, 

 along the cutting of which the nature of the dike is revealed. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Here we first pass some 200 feet of a soft greenish clay, which 

 rises as walls 20 feet high. Fragments of the serpentine rock, on 

 the surface above the railroad cutting, showed it running into 

 unchanged diorite. .Lying next to the serpentine rock was 50 

 feet or more of both compact and cellular quartz, standing upon 

 edge, and striking to the northwest. It was completely impreg- 

 nated with minute specks and octahedrons of magnetite, which 

 exhibited their decomposition by numerous minute cells filled 

 with iron oxide. The cellular quartz, associated indiscriminately 

 with the compact, was literally honeycombed, the great cells 

 being partially filled with ochrey powder. West of the quartz 

 occurred a thinner development of the serpentine, offering the 

 same features as before. With these facts, we are led to regard 

 the exposure before us as a highly changed dioritic dike, in the 

 centre of which is a huge mass of ferruginous jaspery quartz, from 

 which we interpret the structure of the whole hill. Attaining the 

 sumniit, we find several large pits worked for iron ore. One of 

 them, wrought by George Whitaker, has walls of soft greenish 

 serpentine earth rising some 40 feet, in which are imbedded 

 bouUlers and fragments of cellular ferruginous quartz and iron- 

 stone, together with a considerable admixture of ochrey powder 

 and granular limonite. The economic value of the workings con- 

 sists in washing the serpentine earth, and extracting the limonitic 

 materials. Near the wash-house the yellowish green rock is seen 

 to outcrop with a strike to the northwest. Several of the pits on 

 the hill offer much the same features, while some of them contain 

 a greater abundance of the boulders of cellular quartz. The 

 method of formation of the crusts of iron-stone may be deter- 

 mined by an examination of the numerous quartzose boulders. It 

 consists in the segregation of iron oxide as tortuous veins 

 within the substance of the rock, set free by the complete disin- 

 tegration of the latter ; while the powdery and granular limonite 

 has resulted from an oxidation of the magnetite which so com- 

 pletely impregnates the jaspery quartz. Associated with the 

 boulders of trap, are certain foreign materials belonging to the 

 drift. Imbedded within the serpentine earth of Whitaker's pit, 

 are several large decomposed boulders of granite. Upon the 

 summit of the hill, a large boulder of dark limestone was also 

 found, besides various other materials belonging to th,e boulder 

 drift so universally scattered over the State, 




260 proceedings of the academy of [1884. 



October 21. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yiee-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 " On the Cuspidiform Petrogl^^phs, or so-called Bird-track 

 Rock-Sculptures, of Ohio," by D. G. Brinton, M. D. 



" Preliminary Observations on the Brain of Menopoma," by 

 Henry F. Osborn. 



October 28. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine persons present. 



Organisms in Ice. — Prof, Letdy stated that a member had 

 placed in his hands, for examination, a vial of water obtained from 

 melting ice which is used for cooling drinking-water. From 

 time to time, among some sediment taken from a water-cooler, 

 the gentleman had observed what he supposed to be living worms, 

 which he suspected were introduced with the water into the 

 cooler, and not with the ice. Upon melting some of the ice alone, 

 the worms were still observed, and the water submitted for 

 examination was some that was thus obtained. Prof. Leidy was 

 surprised to find a number of worms among some flocculent 

 sediment, mainly consisting of vegetal hairs and other debris. 

 Besides the worms, there were also immature Anguillulas, and a 

 number of Rotifer vulgar^is, all living. It would appear that 

 these animals had all been contained in the ice, and had been 

 liberated on melting. It was an unexpected source of contami- 

 nation of our drinking-water, that Prof. Leidy had previously 

 supposed to be very improbable. The little worms he was not 

 familiar with. 



They belong to the family of Lumbricidse, and probably may 

 be an undescribed species of Lumbriculus. They are white, or 

 colorless, from 4 to 6 millimeters long, by a third of a millimeter 

 in thickness. The body is divided into thirty segments, bearing 

 podal spines, which form four rows, with three in each fas- 

 ciculus, and divergeut. The spines are curved at the root, 

 pointed at the free end, and measure 0*05 to 0-06 mm. long. 

 The upper lip is blunt conical; the terminal segment truncate. 

 Tliere appears to be no distinct girdle, but the tliird, fourth, 

 and fifth f^egments contain capsuligenous glands and other organs 

 pertaining to the sexual appaiatus. 



Several dead worms swarmed in the interior with large, ovate, 

 beaked, ciliated infusorians measuring from 0-05 to 0*06 mm. long 

 by 0-04 to 0-048 mm. broad. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Chapter I, Article 6, of the By-Laws was amended by the addi- 

 tion of the following : — " Neither the building occupied by the 

 society, nor any part of the site or ground pertaining thereto, shall 

 be sold, leased, encumbered or charged in any manner whatever, 

 nor shall any apartment or space in the Academy or adjacent 

 ground be assigned or appropriated permanently to the exclusive 

 use of any person or to the accommodation of any special collection 

 or collections, unless the proposition in this connection be in 

 writing, signed by at least five members, presented at a stated 

 meeting of the Academy, referred to the Council for examination 

 and report — which report shall be considered as special business, 

 to be acted upon at a subsequent stated meeting, to be held at 

 least twenty-six da3'^s after that at which the report of the Council 

 has been read, the date to be fixed by resolution ; but no action shall 

 be taken thereon until after full notice thereof and of said date shall 

 be given to the members by advertisement once a week, for three 

 weeks in two daily newspapers of general circulation in Phila- 

 delphia, and by written or printed notice by mail or otherwise to 

 all the members whose residences or places of business shall 

 be known to the Recording Secretar}'. At such meeting the 

 measure proposed may be considered and adopted b^^ two-thirds 

 of the members present at that meeting, or at any subsequent 

 adjourned meeting for that purpose, provided that at least eighty 

 members be present and vote ; and provided also that nothing in 

 this article shall be so construed as to change, alter or repeal 

 Art. 5, Chapter XI, or release the curators from the charge and 

 care of collections, as provided for in these by-laws." 



Chapter XVI, Article 4, of the By-Laws was amended as 

 follows : — In the third line, after the word " inclusive," insert the 

 words " except Article 6, Chap. I " and add the followings words 

 or paragraph : — "Article 6, Chap. I, may be amended, altered or 

 repealed by two-thirds, upon a yea, and nay vote of not less than 

 eighty members, at a meeting called to consider that special 

 business, after advertisement and individual notification of the 

 members, in manner and form specified in said article, but not 

 otherwise." 



The following were elected members : — George Fales Baker, 

 W. B. Scott, Edmund J. James, and H. LaBarre Jayne. 



The following were elected correspondents : — G. Yom Rath, 

 of Bonn, and Geo. E. Dobson, of London. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



PEELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS UPON THE BRAIN OF MENOPOMA. 

 BY HENRY F. OSBORN, SC. D. 



This is the second of a series of papers ^ upon the brains of 

 the American TJrodela. In tlie stud}^ of llenopoma, I have 

 detected numerous errors in the first paper upon Amphiuma,^ 

 and my attention has kindly been called to others by Prof. 

 Wilder and Dr. E. C. Spitzka. 



The brains of Amphiuma and Menopoma are even more alike 

 in their internal than in their external structure ; while the reverse 

 is the case in the comparison of Menopoma and 3Ienobranchus, 

 which resemble each other very closely externally, but in longi- 

 tudinal section present impoi'tant diflferences. 



The greater accuracy of the Menopoma work is due to changes 

 in technical methods. Before hardening, the brains were inflated 

 with Miiller's fluid, so as to preserve the natural proportion of 

 the cavities. After treatment with alcohol, they were placed for 

 a week in dilute carmine. Calberla's egg-mass was emploj'ed as 

 before, except that the A'-entricles were injected with the mass 

 before hardening. The delicate parts of the brain-roof were thus 

 retained. It appears now that celloidin may be used for this purpose 

 to equal, if not to greater, advantage in results, and with consid- 

 erable economy of time. The sections were cut in absolute 

 alcohol, were then floated upon a slide in consecutive order, from 

 twenty to fifty at a time, and were covered with a delicate slip of 

 blotting-paper during treatment with oil of cloves. These 

 changes greatly improved the three series, which were obtained 

 in as' many planes — horizontal, transverse and vertical to the long 

 axis of the brain. 



External Structure (PI. YI, figs. 1, 2, 3). 



With a single exception, and that an important one, the brain 

 of Menopoma approaches closely the typical brain. The seg- 



^ Many of these results were presented in the Biological Section of the 

 American Association, September, 1884. 



2 Preliminary Observations upon the Brain of Ampliiuma. Proc. Phila. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc, July, 1883. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 263 



mental ^ parts are clearlj^ differentiated from each other in 

 regular succession, beginning with the olfactory lobes or Rhinen- 

 cephalon, the Prosencephalon, the Diencephalon, the Mesen- 

 cephalon, the Epencephalon and Metencephalon. This was 

 not found to be the case in Amphiuma, where the Rhinen- and 

 Prosencephala and Dien- and Mesencephala are barely distin- 

 guishable. The exception above noted is that, the epiphysis 

 does not appear upon the external surface, but, as we shall see, is 

 altogether wanting, while a vascular plexus lying between the 

 hemispheres offers a very deceptive imitation of this important 

 structure. The hypophysis and infundibulum, however, have a 

 striking development. 



A careful study of the surface of the diencephalon discloses 

 a minute transparent area lying between two whitish streaks. 

 The latter are transverse commissures in the roof of the third 

 ventricle ; the former is the cavity of the epiphysial tube, or 

 recessus pinealis, the brain-cavity being separated from the pia 

 mater only by a single layer of cells. This transparent area has 

 already been pointed out by Goette^ in the frog, where it is 

 somewhat less conspicuous. In front of the foremost commissure 

 is a triangular transparent space ; at the sides of this are two horn- 

 like forward continuations of the diencephalon. These processes 

 I consider homologous with the habenulae of the mammalian 

 brain, and with the " Schnabelformiger Fortsatz " described by 

 Muller in the lamprey's brain. In the lamprey they coalesce in 



^ The nomenclature proposed by Prof. Burt G. "Wilder has been adopted, 

 with few exceptions. It proceeds upon the consistent plan of naming the 

 segments, and then- various parts, as far as possible, after the segmental 

 names which now meet with general acceptance among anatomists ; also of 

 using abbreviated forms of the longer terms now in use. For the sake of 

 clearness the new terms, and their synonyms, which are employed in this 

 paper are given below. The Prosencephalon, including: the procoilim, lateral 

 ventricles ; the proj)lexi, lateral plexuses ; the prosoccelia, ventriculus com- 

 munis laborum ; the supraplexus, plexus in the roof of the prosocoelia ; the 

 porta, foramen of Munro ; the terma, lamina terminalis ; the prcecommis- 

 sura, anterior commissure. The Diencephalon, including : the supra- 

 commissura, commissura habenarum ; the processus and recessvs pinealis, 

 the postcommissura, posterior commissure ; the diacodia, third ventricle. 

 The Mesencephalon, including : the mesoccelia, iter, etc. A system of this 

 kind must undergo modification, from time to time, but in the end it will 

 be far superior to the present cumbersome multinomial system. 



^ Entwickelungsgeschichte der Unke, 1875. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



the median line, but here they are separate, as vaay be seen 

 by a close external examination, and verified by transverse 

 sections. This homology is confirmed by the stud}- oi the fore- 

 most of the transverse commissures. In front of this space 

 rises the reddish body, which has been generally mistaken for 

 the epipliysis. In the natural state this body is not very promi- 

 nent, but as soon as the ventricles collapse, it is thrust conspicu- 

 ously upwards. The ventricular collapse is also the occasion of 

 an artificial dorsal furrow in the optic lobe, which is here abso- 

 lutely unpaired. Upon the ventral aspect of the brain we again 

 observe two transparent areas. One resembles a long slit in 

 front of the optic chiasma, and is found to be a portion of the 

 lamina terminalis. The other is due to a thinning of the floor of 

 the infundibulum, and is seen immediately in front of the 

 hypoph3'sis. The hemispheres are closely applied to each other, 

 but have no structural union. The cerebellum is slightly over- 

 hung by the optic lobe. 



The proportions of the various segmental parts are very 

 similar to those of Menobranchus, and this seems to accord with 

 the similarity'' of the proportions in the head, body and limbs of 

 these animals. 



Internal Structure. 



A natural introduction to the internal structure would be 

 a description of the walls and cavities of the various segments, 

 but it happens that the boundaries of these segments can only 

 be determined after we settle upon the relations of the parts 

 which compose them, so, until some of the details have been 

 investigated, this description must be postponed. In general, 

 the brain is a tube forking in front into the paired lobes and 

 cavities of the hemispheres. 



The Ependyma and Pia Mater. — The pia mater closely invests 

 all the brain surfaces and sends numerous nutrient vessels into 

 its walls. It envelops all parts of the brain, with the exception 

 of the hypophysis, which lies external to it (fig. 4), so that the 

 pia actually separates the h3rpoph3'sis from the floor of the 

 infundibulum and sends in numerous smaller vessels between 

 the epithelial tubes which constitute this body. This relation is 

 not true of the posterior lobe of the hypophysis which is a 

 development of the brain-wall and is surrounded by the pia, the 

 anterior lobe as is well known, arising from the oral epithelium. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 265 



At several points the pia and ependyma unite to form the sole 

 elements of the brain-wall, giving the transparent effect, in 

 external view, which has been mentioned. A striking instance of 

 this is seen in the dorsal wall of the infundibular cavity, which 

 is extremely delicate, the ependyma consisting of a single row 

 of cells. The vascular plexuses above the medulla and between 

 the hemispheres are instances of such union, elaborated by the 

 introduction of vascular plexuses from the pia. Three varieties 

 of the cells of the ependyma can be distinguished. The cells of 

 the first variety form a general investment of the inner brain- 

 wall ; they are from one to three deep, cylindrical or much 

 elongated, crowded between them are yellowish oily granules, 

 and many of the cells remotely resemble ordinary fat cells in the 

 possession of a proto-plasmic nucleated centre, lying between 

 yellowish, unstained terminations. It is the innermost of these 

 cells which give rise to thread-like processes which radiate out- 

 wards in the brain-wall, but the latter never make such beautiful 

 displays as are seen in the frog's brain, and figured by Stieda.^ 

 The cells of the second variety lack the fatty granules ; they are 

 found coating the prsecommissura, but are principally observed 

 wherever the brain-wall is reduced to a single row of cells as in 

 the roof of the infundibulum, and in that part of the floor to 

 which the hypophysis is attached; they are small, rounded cells, 

 at one point becoming very much elongated, namely, in the sides 

 of the processus pineahs. The transition from this to the third 

 variety is beautifully shown in the forward portion of the roof of 

 the third ventricle. Here the rounded passes into the beaded 

 character of the single cell layer which follows the elaborate 

 foldings of the diaplexus. 



The consecutive series of sections in three planes afford fine 

 material for the study of the nerve-fibre courses, and much has 

 already been ascertained that throws light upon the relations of 

 the brain segments. I will here describe only the fibre courses 

 which have a transverse direction, considering under this head 

 the relations of the cerebellum,^ the origin of the optic nerves, 

 and the various commissures. 



^ Zeitschrift fiir wiss. Zool., Band xx. 



* Compare E. C. Spitzka. The relations of the Cerebellum, Alienist 

 and Neurologist. New York, January, 1884. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



The Cerebellum (figs. 6, t). — Numerous as are the errors 

 which at present prevail in the literature of the amphibian brain, 

 none are more striking than those relating to the cerebellum.^ 

 It is said to retain its embryonic condition of a small band-like 

 structure stretching over the fourth ventricle. Now it happens 

 that the amphibian cerebellum is a flat structure, and if viewed 

 on edge, as is the case in looking down upon the frog's brain, it 

 does appear very small ; if, on the other hand, it is seen in ver- 

 tical longitudinal section, its large bulk, relatively to other parts, 

 is at once apparent. If, further, as will be done in another 

 paper, a corresponding section of an amphiuma brain be super- 

 posed upon the frog section, we find that the former barely covers 

 one-twenty-fourth of the diameter of the latter, although the 

 Amphiuma is a very much larger animal. The description 

 referred to above, then, is as exaggerated when applied to the 

 frog as it is true of such forms as Amphiuma, Menopoma and 

 Menohranchus. 



In Amphiuma, the cerebellum is reduced to its simplest pos- 

 sible expression. It seems doubtful whether it contains any 

 nerve cells whatever. In Menopoma, however, a few cells similar 

 to those in the optic lobes, can be observed on either side of the 

 transverse fibres which make up the larger part of this body ; it 

 is difficult to distinguish these cells from those of the ependyma. 

 Notwithstanding the character of this bod}', its main relations to 

 the adjoining parts are precisely similar to those of the higher 

 vei'tebrates. These relations have already been indefinitely 

 indicated \>y Stieda. (1.) From the lateral tips of the medulla 

 arises a column of fibres on either side, which arches forward ; 

 here the columns are reinforced by fibres apparently arising from 

 lateral cell-masses, these columns turn back and enter the cere- 

 bellum. (2.) Passing beneath these columns is another pair, 

 which diverge and then converge as the}' enter the pars peduncu- 

 laris of the mesencephalon ; they can be followed some distance 

 forwards upon either side of the mesocoelia. (^3.) Passing 

 directly forward from the ventral surface of the cerebellum, a 

 few scattering fibres enter the valvula and with some doubt can 

 be followed into the cells of the roof of the optic lobe. In one 

 and two we recognize the post- and pme-pedunculi or inferior 



^ Mihalkovics, loc. cit., p. 56 ; also, Wiedersheim, Lehrbuch der Ver- 

 gleicheuden Anatomic, 1883, p. 397. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 26T 



and superior (processus ad cerebrum) peduncles of the higher 

 vertebrate brain. 



The scarcit}-, if not absence, of nerve cells in the Amphiuma 

 or Menopoma cerebellum, renders it difficult to understand the 

 meaning of tliese peduncles, unless we regard the cerebellum here 

 as in large part a decussational system, composed of fibres 

 crossing from one side of the brain to the other. It may be 

 added that the frog's cerebellum is richly cellular. 



The Optic Nerves (fig. 8). — No fibres have as yet been followed 

 from the optic lobe (Mesencephalon) to enter the optic tracts, 

 although there can be little doubt that they are present ; but the 

 fibres in the thalami arise in a manner which points, almost with 

 certainty, to the important fact that in the Amphibia the decus- 

 sation of the optic tracts is incomplete. In other words, part of 

 the fibres of each optic nerve enter from the chiasma, i. e., from 

 the opposite side of the brain, part enter from the same side of the 

 brain. (1.) The fibres supplj'ing the chiasma, arise from cell 

 masses in the upper lateral portions of the thalami, and sweep 

 around the sides of the thalami, partly encircling the main longi- 

 tudinal fibre system (crura cerebri) ; they pass downwards and 

 obliquely forwards, enter the chiasma, and apparently pass to the 

 nerve of the opposite side. (2.) In the floor and lower lateral cell 

 masses of the thalami arise smaller bundles of fibres, which pass 

 beneath the longitudinal system, above and then in front of the 

 chiasma to enter the optic nerve of the same side. They can be 

 traced by following successive sections forwards, but do not 

 interdigitate with the fibres of the chiasma, as in the figure which 

 combines the results of a series of sections. If this fact is con- 

 firmed by other observers, it will show that the partial decussation 

 of the optic tracts is an early, if not a primitive condition, instead 

 of being peculiar to the higher mammals, as has been generally 

 maintained. 



The Commissures. 



TJie Prsecommissura (fig. 9). — In the frog's brain ^ it has been 

 found that there are two divisions of this commissure : a posterior, 

 connecting the lower portions of the hemispheres, and an anterior, 

 connecting the upper median walls. Both have been found in 

 Menopoma^ the latter arching upwards at the sides, and, as is 

 clear in fig. 4, it forms on either side the posterior boundary'' of 



1 Stieda, Iqc, qU., p, 308, 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



the porta, or passage from the single to the lateral cavities of the 

 Prosencephalon. In Menopoma, however, the posterior division 

 is immediately below the anterior, and it is found in the horizontal 

 sections to be not a true commissural, but a decussational system. 

 At this point, a large number of the fibres composing each of the 

 longitudinal tracts, just mentioned in connection with the optic 

 chiasma, cross each other and pass to or from the base of the 

 opposite hemisphere. In Menohranchus these two tracts are 

 completely separated, the upper division passing independently 

 across the ventricle. 



The Postcomviissura. — Although this commissure is part of a 

 conspicuous fold of the brain-roof separating the Dien- from the 

 Mesencephalon, it really contains in the Amphibia but few fibres. 

 Another interesting fact is that these fibres do not enter into the 

 thalami, but pass obliquely backwards into the region of the 

 longitudinal tracts composing the pars peduncularis of the Mesen- 

 cephalon. This accords with Mihalkovics' ^ observations upon the 

 chick, and tends to confirm Pawlowsky's ^ view that this is not a 

 commissure in the strict application of the word, but is rather a 

 side connection of the longitudinal fibre system. This view 

 accords also with Ahlborn's recent observations upon the 

 lamprey. 



TJie Supracommissura (fig. 8). — In the forward portion of the 

 roof of the diacoelia, and immediately above the optic chiasma is 

 a commissure, which, as far as I can ascertain, has been hereto- 

 fore entirely overlooked in the Amphibia. In Menopoma and 

 AmpMuma it is very large ; in the frog it is much reduced, and 

 lies further forward ; in Menohranchus it is represented by a 

 slender band of fibres immediately in front of the recessus 

 pinealis. In all these forms it lies in front of the epiphysial 

 process, and completely separates this tube from the dia- and 

 supraplexus. It occupies the same relative position as the 

 variously named Commissura habenarum,^ or the commissure of 

 the pineal stalk (Mihalkovics)^ of the mammalian brain, as well 



1 Loe. cit., p. 73. 



2 Pawlowsky, Ueber den Faserverlauf in der hinteren Gehimcommissur. 

 Zeits. fiir wiss. Zool., Band xxiv, 1874, 



3 Wilder, Anatomical Technology, 1882, p. 463. 



* Loc. cit., p. 100. This comparison is sonae^hat doubtful. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



as the commissure figured by Professor Balfour ^ in the Elasmo- 

 branch brain. It passes across the posterior ends of the hook-like 

 processes of the thalami, which I have compared with the habenulae, 

 and the most satisfactory interpretation of this commissure is 

 afforded by a comparison with Ahlborn's figures of the lamprey 

 brain. 2 At the sides and to the front of the recessus pinealis^ I 

 find in Menopoma two compact masses of nerve cells, which I 

 think we may compare with the ganglia habenarum. These 

 masses form the posterior, and to some extent the inferior, 

 boundary of the supracommissura. Following the fibres of this 

 commissure downwards and forwards, we find that they partly 

 enter the thalami, while the greater part pass directly into the 

 hemispheres. Their distribution, then, is similar to that of the 

 fibres of the teenia thalami optici, while the commissural portion 

 may be compared with a slender commissure, the commissura ten- 

 uissima^ traversing the habenulae in the lamprey's brain. The 

 relations to the hemispheres are especially interesting, as they 

 indicate, between the posterior parts of these bodies, a commis- 

 sural union of considerable extent and importance. 



Infundibular Commissures. — The lobes of the infundibulum 

 are united dorsally and ventrally by two commissures, the 

 uppermost being quite distinct and extensive (fig. 4) and forming 

 the thin fold which divides the iter from the infundibular cavity. 



The Hypophysis and Epiphysis. 



The backward extension of the hypophysis, together with its 

 great development, and the unusual size of the infundibular cavity 

 and lateral lobes, lend this portion of the brain especial interest. 

 I will, however, only remark here upon the clear separation of 

 the anterior and posterior lobes of the hypophysis, by the turning 

 in of the pia mater over the forward face of the anterior lobe (fig. 

 4). The vessels of the pia ramify between the columnar epithe- 

 lial cells, which compose the tubes forming this lobe. In vertical 

 section the lumen of one of these tubes is occasionally seen. The 

 ependj'ma is much convoluted in the posterior lobe, and these 

 foldings may readily be mistaken for tubes. 



Our knowledge of the epiphysis in the Amphibia is in a far from 

 satisfactory state. There can be little doubt as to the correctness 



* Elasmobranch Fishes, plate xv. * Loc. cit., p. 285. 




2*10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



of Goette's important observation ^ that in the batrachia the 

 epiphysis proper loses its primitive connection with the brain, 

 and lies external to the skull, while its primitive union with the 

 brain is indicated by the more or less degenerate walls of the 

 epiphysial tube. Yet Goette's figures do not give such a clear 

 history of these changes, as the importance of the subject demands, 

 and so far as we know, there have been no embryological investi- 

 gations on this subject among the urodela. 



In the meantime, since the publication of Goette's discovery, 

 many general works ^ by different writers upon comparative 

 anatomy have appeared, all of which figure the epiphysis as a 

 conspicuous object lying between the cerebral hemispheres. There 

 can be little doubt that these, as well as all the earlier writers 

 upon the Amphibian brain, such as Wyman, Ecker, Leidig, Rathke 

 and Stieda have mistaken the remarkable upgrowth of the vascular 

 plexus above the prosocoelia for the epiphysis, and that this bod3^ 

 in the urodela, as well as in the batrachia, is represented upon the 

 brain surface merely- by a portion of its primitive stalk. The 

 grounds for this statement, so far as it concerns the urodela, are 

 that in Amphiuma, Menobranchus and Menopoma portions of this 

 primitive stalk can be seen in vertical section, in different stages 

 of arrest, and retaining to a greater or less extent the primitive 

 condition of a glovefinger-like upfolding of the brain roof. 



In the discovery of the supracommissura and the invariable 

 position of the recessus pinealis, between this and the post- 

 commissura, we find unmistakable anatomical evidence for Goette's 

 conclusions, although we are not thereby warranted in assuming 

 that the development of the epiphysis is the same in the urodela as 

 in the batrachia. All doubt is also removed as to the connection 

 between the stalk of the epiphysis and the supraplexus, as the 

 latter is clearly distinct from the former, and does not establish 

 such close relations with the stalk as in the birds. 



In Menopoma (fig. 4) the ependyma cells upon either side of 

 the recessus become much enlarged and elongated ; upon the 

 upper surface of the brain they lose this character, becoming 



^ Entwickelungsgeschichte der Unke, 1875, p. 283. 



' Huxley and Martin's Practical Biology, Wiedersheim's Lehrbuch der 

 vergleichenden Anatomic and Wilder' s Anatomical Technology may be 

 cited as examples. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2*ll 



small and spherical, and folding over, form a single-layered much 

 flattened sac, the lumen of which retains its connection with the 

 diacoelia by a narrow slit. This is the only adult trace of the 

 processus pinealis in Menopoma. In Rana (fig. 5) I find the 

 same elongation of the ependyma cells, and similar cells forming 

 the processus, but in a double row. Here the supracommissura 

 is much smaller, and more widely separated from the postcom- 

 missura, this interval is bridged b}'^ a delicate single row of cells 

 which appear to turn up and form the anterior border of the re- 

 cessus, although this point is not very clear. There is also some 

 doubt whether the lumen of the processus retains its communi- 

 cation with the diacoelia. The processus itself is a long, flattened, 

 two-layered sac, circular in section, extending anteriorly so as to 

 overlap the supracommissura. The pia mater overlaps the pro- 

 cessus upon all sides, indicating that it primitively was directed 

 upwards. Extending from above the postcommissura, forwards 

 to the base of the epiphysial stalk, are numerous fibres, which 

 appear to enter into relations with the cells of the stalk. In 

 Menobranchus and Amphiuma we find a nearer approach to the 

 frog than to the Menopoma condition, the processus forming an 

 elongated flattened sac, completely constricted off from the brain 

 cavity. 



The Flexi choroidei. — There is a singularly simple and beau- 

 tiful display of the relations of the intra-ventricular blood-vessels 

 in the brain of Menopoma (fig. 4). The thrusting in of the 

 ependj^ma extends from the supracommissura to the upper por- 

 tion of the terma. The arterial supply is apparently derived 

 from the median arteria carotis cerebralis, and the venous return 

 is at the sides of the supraplexus. The division into supra-, dia- 

 and proplexus is a somewhat artificial one here, but is not so 

 when applied to the Amphiuma brain, where the supraplexus 

 is very prominent, and the diaplexus extends well back into 

 the Mesencephalon. The lateral wings of the diaplexus are shown 

 passing through the porta in fig. 9. The nature of the ependyma 

 cell-lining of these vessels is very constant ; small and large, the 

 cells have the same elongated, bead-like appearance. 



The Encephalic Segments. — Stieda,^ following general usage, 

 considers that portion of the median brain-floor lying behind the 



Loc. cit. 




272 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



chiasma as the lamina cinerea ; that lying in front, as the lamina 

 terminalis. This construction cannot be applied here with 

 accuracy, owing to the unusual position of the praecommissura, 

 in the brain-floor, instead of in the anterior median wall. Yet 

 for comparative purposes it is best to retain this interpretation. 

 It gives us an unusually extended prosocoelia, or ventriculus 

 communis loborum, which we find is a distinctive feature also of 

 the Amphiuma and Menobranchus brain. The supracommissura 

 may be considered as the upper posterior boundary of the proso- 

 coelia, separating it arbitrarily from the diacoelia, as the post- 

 commissura does the dia- from the mesocoelia. At all events, the 

 supraplexus clearly belongs to this cavity rather than to the 

 diacoelia. 



The general subject must be discontinued here, to be resumed 

 in connection with the brain of the Menobranchus, in a subse- 

 quent paper. 



Morphological Laboratory, Princeton, Oct. 20, I884. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI. 



Illustrating the Brains of Menopoma and Rana. 



Encephalic segments Eh. — Rhinencephalon ; Pr. — Prosencephalon ; Di. — 

 Diencephalon ; Me. — Mesencephalon ; Up. — Epencephalon ; Met. — 

 Metencephalon. 



General Abbreviations. 



a. — ^Prosocoelia, cavity of the primitive prosencephalon. 



a. hph. — Anterior lobe of hypophysis. 



a c c— Branch oi Arteria carotis cerebralis. 



cbl. — Cerebellum. 



ch. — Optic chiasma. 



en. ce. — Canalis centralis. 



dc. — Diacoelia, third ventricle. 



dpx. — Diaplexus, choroid plexus of the third ventricle. 



end. — Ependyma. 



h. — Habenulse. 



hem. and hem'. — Section and external surface of right hemisphere. 



hph. — Hypophysis. 



i. cm. — Inferior commissure of infundibulum. 



I. — Longitudinal fibre courses, cut transversely. 



med. — Medulla oblongata. 



mse. — Mesocoelia, iter. 



mtc. — Metacoelia, fourth ventricle, 



mtpx. — Metaplexus, tela vasculosa of the fourth ventricle. 



my. — Myelon, spinal cord. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PmLADELPHIA. 213 



opt. — Optic lobe. 



p. — ^Porta, Foramen of Munro. 



pes. — Postcommissura, posterior commissure. 



p. 7iph. — Posterior lobe of hypophysis. 



pi. — Pia, pia mater. 



ppd. — Post-pedunculus, posterior peduncle of cerebellum. 



pp. — Pars peduncularis of Mesencephalon. 



pre. — ^Procoelia, lateral ventricle, 



pr. cs. and pr. cs'. — Prsecommissura, anterior commissure, lower and upper 



divisions. 

 pr. eph. — Processus pinealis, the epiphysial stalk. 

 pr. px. — Proplexus, the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. 

 pr. pd. — Pi sepedunculus, anterior peduncle of cerebellum. 

 r. eph. — Recessus infra-pinealis, the opening of the epiphysial cavity into 



the diacoelia. 

 rhen. — Section of olfactory lobe. 

 rst. — Restiform tract. 



8C8. — Supracommissura, commissure of the habenulge. 

 scm. — Superior commissure of the infundibulum. 

 spx. — Supraplexus (formerly considered the epiphysis), the upper portion 



of the vascular plexus of the prosocoelia. 

 spd. — Supra-pedun cuius, fibres passing from the cerebellum into the optic 



lobe. 

 t. — Terma, lamina terminalis. 



Figures 1, 2, 3. Dorsal, ventral and lateral aspects of the brain of Meno- 

 poma AUeghense, enlarged five diameters. The whitish band stretching 

 across the infundibulum, in front of the hypophysis, probably consists of 

 the inferior infundibular commissure. In the dorsal aspect of the fresh 

 brain, the position of the epiphysial process, is marked by an oval 

 transparent area, in front and behind which, the supra- and post- 

 commissurse shine through. This area is undoubtedly contracted by 

 reagents. The natural backward direction of the cerebellum is also 

 altered, so that it hangs beneath the optic lobe. 



Figure 4. Longitudinal vertical section of the brain of Menopoma, in 

 a median plane as far forwards as the terma, and in front of this through 

 the centre of the right hemisphere ; enlarged sixteen diameters. The 

 dotted ellipse indicates the position of the porta, or foramen of Munro. 



Figure 5. The diatela, or roof of the third ventricle of the brain of Rana 

 Mugiens. This figure represents the long tubular epiphysial process, 

 composed of two or three rows of cells, mostly enveloped by the pia 

 and extending forwards above the supracommissura. The inner layer 

 cells send short processes into the persistent cavity of the epiphysis, 

 and the cavity is filled by a highly transparent meshwork, which may 

 simply consist of coagulated fluid. The opening into tlie diacoelia, 

 r. eph., is doubtful. The lines {fi.), indicate a number of nerve 

 fibres, which apparently extend to the base of the epiphysial process. 




2T4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Figures 6-9 are of Menopoma. 



Figure 6, A composite of three transverse sections through the cerebellum 

 and medulla. 



Figure 7. Diagrammatic representation of the nerve fibre courses spring- 

 ing from the cerebellum. 



Figure 8. A composite of six sections through the diencephalon, showing 

 the course of the fibres of the supracommissura, and piobable origin 

 of the optic tracts, a-a', supposed course of fibres passing from 

 upper parts of thalamus to optic nerve of opposite side, h-b', course 

 of fibns from lower parts of thalamus to optic nerve of same side. 



Figure 9. An oblique section through the region of the prsecommissura, 

 showing the distributions of the fibres of this commissure, also the 

 supraplexus, the proplexus, and porta. The right side is cut anterior 

 to the left. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



ON THE CUSPIDIFORM PETEOGLYPHS, OR SO-CALLED BIRD-TRACZ 

 ROCK-SCULPIUBES, OF OHIO. 



BY DR. D. G. BRINTON. 



In the study of American rock-sculptures, the attention 

 of archaeologists has several times been drawn to a peculiar 

 character which appears frequently on the inscribed rocks of 

 central and northern Ohio, and rarely, or not at all, outside of 

 this region. 



It has been called a bird-track or specifically, a turkey-track, 

 and has been supposed to be a conventional representation of the 

 impression of the foot of this or some other bird. A recent study 

 of one of the best examples of it, near Newark, Ohio, has led me 

 to a different opinion as to its significance, and I take the occa- 

 sion to explain this, and also to offer some suggestions as to the 

 distribution and purport of this design. 



In Ohio, rocks bearing this figure are found near Barnes- 

 ville, Belmont Co. ; near Amherst, Lorain Co. ; at Independence, 

 Cuyahoga Co. ; in Licking Co., and elsewhere. It does not occur 

 in the rather numerous inscriptions upon the Ohio River, nor in 

 those south of that stream. Nor has it been reported in the 

 various petroglyphs existing in the Susquehanna Valley and in 

 New England. In fact, it seems confined pretty closely to that 

 area which was occupied by that people whom we call, for want 

 of a better name, the mound-builders. This adds interest to the 

 investigation of the character and its meaning. 



That it possessed some definite signification would seem to 

 be demonstrated b}^ the frequency of its recurrence and the regu- 

 larity shown in its tracings ; this indicating that it was a familiar 

 figure, and that constant repetition had conferred on the designer 

 a certain technical skill in forming it. This would not be the 

 case were it merely the product of an idle hand, and of no 

 import. 



As I have said, this peculiar figure does not occur in other 

 American rock-inscriptions. It is, indeed, very rare in any other 

 locality. Dr. Richard Andree, in his " Ethnographische ParaU 

 lelen?'' (Stuttgart, 1878), gives drawings of fifty-nine rock inscrip- 

 tions from various parts of the world, but on examining them I 

 find only one which presents any analogy to that under considera- 




2T6 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



tion ; that one is from Somal Land, in Africa, ten degrees north 

 of the equator. 



There are, however, some very ancient Chinese inscriptions, 

 dating from about the fourth century before our era, which show 

 a similar device. For this reason. Dr. J. F. Salisbury, of Ohio, 

 has maintained that some connection existed between the mound- 

 builders and the ancient Chinese, 



My own opinion, based on a close inspection of the inscribed 

 rock in Licking Co., Ohio, is that the so-called bird-tracks were 

 never intended to represent the footprints of any species of birds, 

 but are conventional signs for arrows or arrow-heads. My reasons 

 are the following : 



In no case are there representations of toes or claws. The 

 centre line is fi*equently prolonged, passing be^'ond the junction 

 of the lateral lines, thus giving to the figure a cruciform appear 

 ance. More often it is prolonged in the other direction — some- 

 times to three or four times the length of the lateral lines — 

 presenting an unmistakable picture of a barbed arrow-head on a 

 shaft. 



The lateral lines are usually three or four inches in length, 

 while the median line is always longer. The incisions are clean 

 and clear, the edges sharp and singularly firm, betraying a 

 practiced hand and a powerful instrument. 



On the supposition that these are intended for arrow-points, I 

 propose for them the name of " cuspidiform petrogl^'phs." This 

 is descriptive of their actual appearance, and also indicates what 

 they were doubtless designed to represent. 



Granting this, we do not have to go far to ascertain the idea 

 which this sign was intended to convey. There can be little doubt 

 but that the arrow signifies a warrior, or some related military 

 conception. 



This, in turn, throws light on other points in the archaeology of 

 the Ohio region. The inscribed rock at Newark is within about 

 eight miles of a very remarkable series of works between the 

 north fork of Licking River and Raccoon Creek. One of these 

 works is a mighty circular embankment, enclosing an area of 

 thirty acres, now used as the fair grounds of Licking Co. In the 

 midst of this area, headed toward the only entrance, is an effigy 

 mound, of large size, commonly supposed to represent an eagle. 

 At present, however, the alleged eagle has no head, and I could 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



not see signs that it ever had had one. The figure is, indeed, 

 nothing else than one of these cuspidiform symbols on a gigantic 

 scale. It measures along the central elevation 210 feet, while the 

 lateral lines, called the "wings," branch off about 100 feet from 

 the limits of the central ridge. The point of the arrow is directed 

 precisely to the single gateway or opening of the enclosure. 

 , The inference which the presence of this gigantic delineation ot 

 an arrow-head seems to justify, is that this enclosure was once 

 dedicated to militar}- ceremonies of some kind. 



The inscribed rock on which my observations were made, is 

 located about six miles from Newark, close to the bank of the 

 Licking River. It is a moderately hard sandstone, much eroded 

 where fully exposed to the weather. The bluff is about thirty 

 feet high, and the summit overhangs the base to such an extent 

 that it furnishes a natural shelter. Many of the inscriptions have 

 thus been preserved with great freshness of outline. 



This rock shelter was also extensively used by generations 

 of primitive hunters. Excavations which I made, turned up 

 numerous examples of their work in pottery and stone, and the 

 fragments of the bones of animals used in their repasts. 



The only previous examination of this inscription, for archae- 

 ological purposes, which I have heard of, is one by Dr. Salisbury, 

 in 1859, the notes of which are in MS., in the library of the 

 American Antiquarian Society. A brief memorandum by him, 

 on the subject, was also published in the Report of the Ohio 

 centennial managers in 18T6. 




2t8 proceedings of the academy of [1884. 



November 4. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in tlie chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Behavior of Petrolatum in the Dij 

 gestive Tract," by N. A. Randolph, M. D., was presented for 

 publication. 



Impression of the Figures on a " Meday Stick.'" — Dr. D. G. 

 Brinton exhibited a full-sized impression of the figures on a 

 " Meday Stick," obtained from the Pottawattomies, by the emi- 

 nent antiquary, Dr. E. H. Davis. 



These sticks are used as mnemonic aids in repeating the chants 

 in the '' Great Medicine Lodge." the principal religious rite of 

 the Algonkins. The present stick is 19 inches long, 2| inches 

 wide, and of hard wood. The figures engraved upon it are over 

 500 in number, chiefly representing plants. These figures are 

 engraved with a knife, but the native name of such sticks points 

 to a more primitive method. It is massinahican, literally " a 

 piece of wood marked with fire." The characters inscribed are 

 called kekitvin, which means marks or signs, and from which root 

 are derived the words " to know," " to learn," and " to teach," in 

 many Algonkin dialects. 



The characters areof two kinds, notches, and drawings of objects. 

 The notclies are believed to indicate the musical time or rhythm 

 of the chant, while the drawings suggest its words. The text of 

 several such songs has been printed. They are usually to obtain 

 success in the chase or restoration to health. The latter appears 

 to be the nature of the present song, judging from the numerous 

 plants depicted. 



This Meday stick illustrates an instructive fact constantly lost 

 sight of by antiquaries. The so-called, picture-writing of the 

 Algonkin Indians never presented pictures. There is no group- 

 ing, shading or pictorial arrangement of the figures. There is 

 no attempt at esthetic eflfect. The single figures are not con- 

 nected so as to evoke any artistic sentiment. The intention was 

 wholly apart from this, and where such appears, it is not true 

 Algonkin art. 



November 11. 



Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



" Descriptions of New Species of North American Heterocera," 

 by Herman Strecker. 



" Some Notes on the Movements of the Androecium in Sun- 

 flowers," by Dr. Asa Gray. 



" Observations on Cinna, with Description of a New Species," 

 by F. Lamson Seribner. 



Fired Stones and Prehistoric Implements. — Dr. D. G. Brinton 

 exhibited specimens of quartzite, sandstone and jasper, which had 

 been subjected to the action of fire, and spoke of their bearing on 

 certain archaological questions. 



The most ancient evidence of a knowledge of fire is not the 

 charcoal and ashes of primeval hearths, but stones showing the 

 action of the element. In France they have been found in con- 

 siderable numbers in the tertiary deposits of Thenay, near Pont- 

 levoy, belonging to the late miocene or early pliocene. In South 

 America, the brothers Jose and Fiorentino Ameghino have dis- 

 covered them in a low stratum of the Pampas formation, believed 

 to be referable to the interglacial epoch of the pleistocene. 



The effects of fire on stones are quite distinct from those of 

 other agents. They are shown in discoloration, scaling, and 

 peculiar forms of fracture. Quartz becomes cloudy and opaque ; 

 jasper loses its fresh yellow hue to turn a dull red, while sand- 

 stone forfeits the fresh lustre of its fracture, and shows brown 

 and blackish. 



Stones broken by fire present one of two characteristic ap- 

 pearances ; the one is called by French archaeologists Craquel- 

 lage, the other Etonnement. Quartzite illustrates the former, 

 jasper the latter. Graquellage presents a plane usually at about 

 right-angles to the plane of cleavage; its surface rough, friable, 

 and full of little pits and rounded eminences — like a face pitted 

 with small-pox, to borrow the simile of Mortillet. Etonnement 

 is a splitting by flakes in the lines of percussion cleavage, but 

 distinguishable from the latter by the absence of the bulb of per- 

 cussion, and the splintering which often attends a blow. The 

 flake and its matrix are perfectly clean at all points of their 

 edges. 



Scaling is seen on the surface of sandstones subjected to fire. 

 Small scales are loosened and are detached by exposure, revealing 

 the discolored layers beneath. 



It is claimed by some of the French archaeologists that the 

 very oldest implements used by man were stones thus fractured 

 by fire. This plan of bringing them to an edge, they saj^, pre- 

 ceded that of percussion. This does not appear to be the case in 

 America. The implements of the Trenton gravels are of sand- 

 stone chiefly ; those of the interglacial of the upper Mississippi 

 are of quartzite, neither of which fractures by Etonnement. 

 Whether the later residents of our soil ever used fire to aid their 




280 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



art-production in flint and jasper is uncertain. The speaker had 

 seen no specimens that conclusively showed that they did. 



Cutaneous Absorption of Nicotine. — Dr. N. A. Randolph de- 

 scribed the results of a series of experiments performed by Mr. 

 Samuel G. Dixon and himself, relative to the absorption of nico- 

 tine by the uninjured healthy skin of the living rabbit. In these 

 experiments only rabbits of ascertained good health were used. 

 The fur of the abdomen was carefully clipped (not shaved); suffi- 

 cient time, usually seven days, being allowed to intervene between 

 this operation and the application of the drug to the skin ; thus 

 permitting any slight scratch made at this time to fully heal. 

 The absence of cutaneous lesion was further confirmed by close 

 examination under a strong hand-magnifier. The drug was then 

 applied to the skin, no friction being used. In order to preclude 

 the possibility of its vaporization and subsequent absorption by the 

 lung surface, the nicotine was placed upon an adhesive plaster, 

 the backing of which was made of sheet rubber. The plaster, 

 with the drug in its centre, was then applied in the open air, on a 

 windy day. Difi"erent doses were applied ; thus, in one case, one 

 drop of nicotine applied to the skin, caused death in five hours 

 and eleven minutes. In each of three cases a similar application 

 of ten drops was fatal in respectivelj' one hundred and nine 

 minutes, twenty-eight minutes, and thirty-six minutes. In the 

 fifth case, a similar application of fifteen drops of nicotine caused 

 death in twenty-eight minutes. 



Of the ante-mortem symptoms, contraction of the pupil was 

 constant, and often appeared very quickly. Other prominent 

 symptoms were great trembling, with subsequent loss of muscular 

 power in the extremities. In one case, actual convulsions were 

 noted, and in others, coldness of the skin and increased lachrymal 

 and nasal secretion. Immediately upon the death of two of the 

 animals (after the ten- and fifteen-drop doses respectively), blood 

 was removed, defibrinated, and tested with mercuric chloride for 

 the presence of nicotine in the manner detailed by Wormley 

 (" Micro-Chemistry of Poisons"). In each, of these two instances, 

 characteristic groups of crystals were found upon microscopic 

 examination of the extract from the blood. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




PROC, A, N.S, PHILA 



E.RS.R'TEL. 



RINGUEBERG, FOSSILS OF NIAGARA PERIOD. 





PROC, A, N, S, PHILA, 1884. 



PL III. 



7* 



/ u 



/--.'•^ 



4* 





'fey 



go/ 





ENS K.DEL. 



RINGUEBERG, FOSSILS OF NIAGARA PERIOD. 





PROG, A, N, S. PHILA 



EFotte Del. 



POTTS ON CRISTATELLA. &c 





)C, A. N. S, PHILA. 



PL. V 



GEOLOGICAL MAP OF NORTHERN DELAWAI^E. 





)F MENOPOMA^ 





1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPUIA. 281 



ON THE BEHAVIOR OF PETROLATUM IN THE DIGESTIVE TBACT. 



BY N. A. RANDOLPH, M. D. 



The mixture of hydrocarbons, recognized by tiie pharmacist 

 under the name of petrolatum, and popularly used under the 

 commercial names of cosmoline or vaseline, presents on super- 

 ficial inspection few points of difference from some of the organic 

 fats of the same consistency. Close examination reveals differ- 

 ences, both in physical properties and in chemical constitution, 

 between the bodies just compared. One point of difference, which 

 I have as yet been unable to find recorded, lies in the respective 

 behavior of these two groups, when in contact with the absorbent 

 surfaces of the digestive tract. Thus, while the organic fats, as 

 ordinarily taken in food, are readil}' and almost completely ab- 

 sorl)ed,this soft paraffin is entirely rejected, and found unchanged 

 in tlie feces. 



During eight days, I took daily one-half ounce of commercial 

 viiseline, in addition to m^^ regular diet. Digestion was in no 

 wise altered, and no appreciable results ensued. Later, two 

 healthy adults each received, in the course of forty -eight hours, 

 one ounce of vaseline. Their alvine dejections for three days from 

 the beginning of this observation were collected and dried, and, 

 at the suggestion of Dr. John Marshall, of the University of 

 Pennsylvania, extracted with petroleum ether. Making a slight 

 allowance for incompleteness in extraction, the vaseline ingested 

 was, in each case, recovered in its totality, showing that it had 

 passed through the economy unchanged and unabsorbed. 



There are some important medical applications of these facts, 

 the discussion of which would be out of place here, and which I 

 reserve for further experiment ; but the following deductions ap- 

 pear permissible, and are of strictly biological interest. 



I. Pure petrolatum, while entirely unirritating to the digestive 

 tract, is valueless as a food-stuff*. 



II. The results of the experiments here described lend support 

 to the theory that oleaginous matters are dependent, for their 

 absorption, not upon mechanical, but upon vital activities, and 

 that in such absorption the selective power of the protoplasm of 

 the intestinal epithelium is manifested. 



19 




282 proceedings of the academy of [1884. 



November 18. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the ch:\ir. 

 Thirtj^-seven persons present. 



The deaths of Eli K. Price, C. P. Bayard and J. Edwards 

 Fai'nuBi, members, were announced. 



Urnatella gracilis. — Prof. Leidy remarked that Mr. E. Potts 

 had given to him, in October, 1883, a fragment of a tree-branch on 

 which were many groups of Urnatella. The fragment, tlii'ee inches 

 by one-third of an inch, was obtained in the fore-bay at Fairmount. 

 Around its middle, for about an inch in length, there were thirty 

 separate groups of Urnatella., in nearl}' all consisting each of two 

 stems, of unequal length, and devoid of terminal polyps. The 

 stems diverged and curved downward and were quiescent, but 

 were evidently liAing,as they exhibited slight sensitiveness to dis- 

 turbance. The specimen was placed in an aqnarium, exposed to 

 the north light of a window, and in this position, at the moderate 

 temi)erature of usual living-rooms, was kept during the winter. 

 In March the stems were observed all to have developed polyps 

 at the distal end, in which condition they continue at the present 

 time (April). Most stems are terminated by a single polyp, but 

 a few exhibit a smaller polyp, supported on a cylindrical joint 

 springing from the antepenultimate joint of the stem, including 

 the terminal polyp. The stems are quite irritable and bend in 

 graceful curves from each other on the slightest disturbance. 

 The longer stems even hang their heads in a single spiral turn. 

 The longest stems consist of a dozen joints and measure about the 

 one-eighth of an inch. The shortest stems exhibit one-third the 

 number of joints. The stems appear alternately white and black, 

 the former color corresponding with the thicker portion of the 

 joints, the latter with the constricted portions. Many of the 

 mature joints exhibit traces of the cup-like remains of attach- 

 ment of branches, in most cases on one side only. 



These specimens appear to indicate that, as in the other fresh- 

 water polyzoa, the polyps die on the approach of winter, but the 

 headless stems appear to remain, securely anchored, and ready 

 to reproduce the polyps in the spring. If portions of the stems 

 are destroyed, the remaining joints are capable of reproducing the 

 pol3'ps, commonly from the summit of the terminal joint. 

 Branches usually spring from the last one or two joints, newl}' pro- 

 duced from that which immediately supports the terminal polyp. 

 Specimens also show that heads may start laterally from old or 

 mature joints. Thus the latter appear to serve as the statoblasts 

 of other fresh-water polyzoa, but ordinaril^^ they do not become 

 isolated from one another. As no specimens have been seen 

 with stems consisting of more than a dozen joints, perhaps after 

 reaching this condition, the pol3'ps become detached, to establish 

 new groups. 



The following were ordered to be printed ; — 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN HETEROCEEA. 



BY HERMAN STRECKER. 

 Smerinthus astarte. 



S expands 3 inches; head brown; thorax above dark brown, 

 patagije whitish gra}^ ; abdomen grayish brown above, more ashen 

 beneath. 



Primaries dentated exteriorly, but not as deeply notched as in 

 Gerysii, but more so than Opthalmicus. Pointed apical!}' more 

 as in the latter, not so squarely cut off as in Geryaii. Secon- 

 daries larger in proportion and more evenly cut on outer edge. 



Upper surface. Ground-color whitish gray, variegated with 

 brownish shades and bands as in Cerysii and Opihalmicus, not 

 as much broken and zigzag as in the first, neither as cleai'ly 

 defined as in the last ; the white discal lune and accompanying- 

 line, extending half way along the median nervure, are boldly de- 

 fined, as in Gerysii. 



Secondaries ros}- with white at inner margin, grayish at costa 

 and inclined to brownish at exterior margin. An anal ocellus 

 black, with a bisected blue ring enclosing large black centre. 

 Fringe white. 



Under surface resembles closely that of the two allied species 

 alluded to. 



Taken, in several examples, by Mr. David Bruce, near Denver, 

 Colorado. 



This remarkable insect, whether a good species or a variety of 

 Opthalmicus or Gerysii, it seems impossible to determine; geo- 

 graphically considered one might be led to the conclusion that it 

 was a link between the two, and to compare it placed aside of 

 examples of either it is an impossibility to decide to which it 

 belongs ; the strongest point (and not a very strong one either) 

 is the bisected blue ring of the anal ocellus, which would denote 

 a closer affinity to Gerysii. Were it a h^'brid, the product of the 

 aforementioned two species it could not be more difficult to draw 

 the line of separation, or to say to which species (or form?) it 

 was most closely allied. Future captures in various localities 

 may eventually lead to the knowledge that all three, Opthalmi- 

 cus, Astarte and Gerysii are but forms of one species : to which 

 belief I am most strongly inclined at the present writing. 

 Ecpantheria caeca. 



$ expands If inches ; head white above, black in front and 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



beneath ; collar white, with two black lines or marks ; patagi:e 

 white, with a black band ; thorax above white with a black central 

 band from collar to abdomen ; abdomen above whitish near the 

 thorax, rest blackish, beneath white, a row of four or five (body 

 a little abraded at sides) black spots laterally, and five ventrally ; 

 legs black, furred inwardly with white. 



Primaries, upper surface, white with black spots, arranged much 

 in the same order and number as in Scribonia, but instead of 

 being circular or oval as in that species, they are parallelogrammic, 

 square or wedge-shaped, and are not black rings encircling a white 

 spot, but are all black blind eyes. 



Secondaries white with some scattered brown marks at outer 

 margin, heaviest near apical angle, and a brown discal spot. 



Hab. — Colorado. 



There is on this species none of the blue sheen so conspicuous 

 on Scribonia, but the marks are all black or brownish black, and 

 the whole insect calls up the idea very strongly of Arctia Specta- 

 bilis Tausch., from Russia. 



Spilosoma niobe. 



Expands l^ inches ; head white, palpi j'ellow, terminally black ; 

 thorax white ; abdomen above white, with a row of five large 

 dorsal spots, sides yellowish, with two rows of black spots ; some 

 allowance must be made for the description of the abdomen, as it 

 was compressed and somewhat rubbed. Legs yellow, tarsi ringed 

 with l)lack and white. Antennje wanting on the single example 

 whence this description is drawn. 



Upper surface. Primaries white, with all nervures and nervules 

 heavily bordered on both sides with brown ; this brown is not 

 dark and is much of the color of cotfee with a somewhat undue 

 amount of milk in it, in some lights it has a slight bronzj' ap- 

 pearance. 



Secondaries white, the nervules on costal half of wing towards 

 apex shaded with same brown as superiors, but not as heavil}^ 



Under surface nearly as above. 



One example taken in Florida, some years since, by Mr. A. 

 Bolter, from whom 1 obtained it. 



Harpyia albicoma. 



$ 9 size and form of Borealis, Bicuspis, Bifida, etc. Head 

 and collar pure white ; thorax above dark gray and white ; abdo- 

 men above gray heavily clothed with white hair. Body beneath 

 white. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Primaries, upper surface white with a dark steel-gray band 

 crossing the wing about one-third from base, this band is chevron- 

 shaped, narrowest in the middle and widening to double its width 

 towards the costal and interior margins ; in some examples di- 

 vided entirely in the middle. Interior to this band is a transverse 

 row of four dots of same color, and a single dot on costal nervure 

 near the shoulder. Between the outer and median space of wing 

 are three irregular broken gray lines, the outermost of which on 

 the costal half joined by a broad wedge-shaped gray mark. A 

 dark discal dot and dark point at termination of nervules. 



Secondaries white, dark discal mark and dai'k dot at end of 

 each nervule. 



Under surface white, with markings of upper side more or less 

 faintly reproduced, and the addition of a gray transverse line 

 across the middle of secondaries. 



Described from examples taken, in summer of 1883, by Mr. 

 David Bruce, in mountains of Colorado. 



This species comes nearest to the European Bicusjns Bkh., in 

 the latter the dark band and marks are much heavier and more 

 decided, but their arrangement is nearly the same. 



Mr. Bruce took, this last season, also in Colorado, examples of 

 Ginerea Wlk., which do not differ from those taken in Pennsyl- 

 vania, New Jerse}^ and New York. 



Lophopteryx elegans. 



$. Form of Garmelita^ which appears to be its nearest ?i\\y. 

 Expands 2 inches. Head fawn-color ; thorax above slate-gray, 

 abdomen fawn, shading into brown towards the thorax, beneath 

 whitish. 



Primaries chocolate-brown, darkest towards base and along the 

 costa, and shading into ashen along the exterior margin, a streak 

 or line of pure silvery white along submedian nervule, starting at 

 base and extending one-third the length of the inner margin ; the 

 narrow space between this line and inner margin paler brown, 

 inclining to ochre. Two short, dark, subapical longitudinal lines ; 

 exterior margin with a fine dark lino. 



Secondaries white, with dark anal patch cut with a fine white 

 line, as in other species. 



Under surface. Primaries hoary gray, with brownish on costa 

 and broad indistinct submarginal shade of same color parallel 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



with the exterior margin. Secondaries white, edged with brown 

 on costa, and on exterior margin near and at anal angle. 



From one S received from Mr. Fish, taken in the vicinity of 

 Oldtown, in the State of Maine. 



In the old collection of Trexler, which came into my possession 

 about twent}' 3'ears since, was an example, in poor condition, which 

 I consider identical with the above ; recently I have received 

 several examples, males, from Mr. David Bruce, who took them 

 in Colorado. These I can consider nothing more than a variet}' 

 of the above ; the only difference being in the color of liead and 

 primaries, which in Trexler's and these Colorado examples is of 

 a slate-gray, and not biownish as in the Maine examples ; to pre- 

 vent, however, the misfortune of this variety being described as 

 a new species, I would designate it as L. EleganH var. Grisea. 



Lasiocampa gargamelle. 



3 9 in form and general resemblance allied to L. Pini. 



$ expands about 'i\ inches. Head and thorax brown, inter- 

 mixed with gray ; abdomen brown. 



Primaries obscure grayish, caused by an admixture of white 

 and brown hair and scales ; the basal third darker and more 

 brownish ; there is a tolerably broad outer margin wherein the 

 brownish shade also prevails, this is separated from the paler, 

 more ashen median space by an irregular zigzag brown line ; there 

 are also faint indications of two lines crossing the wing, one 

 subbasal and grayish, the other half-way between the discal spot 

 and the brown zigzag line, and scarcely perceptible ; discal spot 

 small, round and pure white. 



Secondaries brown, with a paler, somewhat ochraeeous mesial 

 band, fringe white. 



Under surface. All wings brown, with a common, rather broad 

 pale, ochraeeous median band. 



9 expands 3;^-3^ inches. Color has more of the brownish pre- 

 vailing. Character of the markings as in male, but less strongly 

 defined ; the median band of secondaries above, and all bands 

 beneath, narrower than in the other sex. 



Hah — Arizona. 



By American authors this insect would be placed in Packard's 

 genus Gloveria, the type of which was Gloveria Arizonenais ; there 

 is, however, nothing by which it can be separated from Lasio- 

 campo Latr. (Gastropacha O.). 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 28T 



NOTES ON THE MOVEMENTS OF THE ANDROECIUM IN SUNFLOWERS. 



BY DR. ASA (iRAY. 



My attention was called to this subject by some observations 

 made by Professor Meehan, the substance of which is now printed 

 in the " Proceedings of the Academy' of Natural Sciences," pp. 200, 

 201, under date of July 15 of this year. My own study of the 

 subject was necessarily desultory and interrupted, and mainly too 

 late in the season for the most satisfactory investigation. My 

 object in sending this communication to the Academy, at this 

 time, is, in the first place, to thank Mr. Meehan for calling atten- 

 tion to a very obvious fact, which I had entirely overlooked, and 

 which those botanists (such as the late Hermann Miiller), who 

 have particularl}' attended to the adaptations for fertilization in 

 Compositne, were seemingl}^ not aware of. The fact referred to, is 

 the retraction of the anther-tube in Helianthus (and so, presum- 

 ably, in its near allies), somewhat in the manner of Gentaurea and 

 the Thistle tribe generally. In the second place, I wish to main- 

 tain -that this retraction in the sunflower is the result of automatic 

 or irritable shortening of the filaments, and not of the "elasticity 

 of the filaments." In other words, that those organs act in Sun- 

 flowers as they have for a long time been known to do in the 

 Thistle tribe, but with some difference. If I riglitly understand 

 Professor Meehan's account, he supposes that the antlier-tube is 

 carried up to its full height by the elongation of the style within, 

 its stigmatic apex pushing against the conniving anther-appendages 

 which close the orifice of the tube, and so stretching the filaments ; 

 and that the elastic shortening of the filaments pulls down the 

 anther-tube when the style has overcome this obstacle and pro- 

 truded. If this were so, the stamen-tube should be drawn down 

 at once upon overcoming the resistance. It is easy to test 

 this, by snipping off the anther-tips by sharp scissors. But when 

 I did this, no retraction followed. Moreover, on splitting down 

 anther-tubes at various stages of their growth, I found that only 

 at the last, and after the anther-tube had attained its full height, 

 was the tip of the stjde in contact with the anther-tips. Prof. 

 Meehan's idea that " the extension of the staminal tube is evi- 

 dently mechanical, and is due solely to the upward growth of the 

 stigma, which, partly it seems by the incurved points of the 

 stamens, and partly perhaps by the expansion of the arms of the 




288 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



pistil, is able to carry up the tube with it," so that when the 

 resistance is removed, " the elastic stamens [filaments] draw the 

 tube down again," must therefore be given up. The expansion 

 of the arms of the style is not concerned in the process, for this 

 does not commence until after complete protrusion. 



As the filaments iu the Thistle tribe are sensitive to the touch, 

 in some Centaureas strikingly so ; as these are not stretched in 

 Centaurea, biit are usually bowed outwardly, and as they contract 

 upon the touch of a bristle or of a visiting insect, the first ques- 

 tion is whether the same may be the case, in some degree, in Sun- 

 flowers. My essays to determine this were made too late in the 

 season to be decisive. But in some flowers, on touching two 

 adjacent filaments with a bristle thrust into one side of the corolla, 

 the column moved promptly toward that side, moving through 

 fifteen or twent}' minutes of arc, very much as it will in a Cen- 

 taurea. I did not succeed in causing the five filaments to act 

 together, so as to produce any observable retraction. That this 

 retraction normally takes place without extraneous irritation, is 

 certain, commencing and commonl}' being completed on the 

 second day after full anthesis ; and equally in flowers shielded 

 from the visits of insects. 



In Sunflower-heads taken into a room and kept from bees, the 

 pollen, pushed out of the tube through the chinks betweeu the 

 anther-tips, or later borne on the brush of the (as yet) unopened 

 style-branches, is borne aloft, exposed to the bumblebees which 

 in the garden fi-eely visit them. Prof. Meehan states that 

 " honey -gatherers seldom resort to them," but I find that in our 

 grounds these were much the most frequent visitors. These were 

 passing from head to head and from plant to plant, inserting 

 their proboscis into the corolla-tubes in succession, beginning at 

 the circumference with the older flowers having expanded and 

 receptive stigmas, and proceeding to the pollen-loaded ones 

 witliin. It is easy to see that pollen is abundantly transported 

 from one head and one plant to another, and that it is carried 

 from flowers which could not possibly be self-fertilized until the 

 next day, and unlikely to be so then, to those the expanded 

 stigmas of which are only then receptive. Prof. Meehan " may 

 sa}^ emphatically that these arrangements favor self-fertilization," 

 but that is not the conclusion which I should draw from his own 

 illustrations any more than from my own. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 289 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE GENUS CINNA, WITH DESCRIPTION OF A 

 NEW SPECIES. 



BY F. LAMSON SCRIBNER. 



Two species of Cinna,^ common to the northern regions of 

 both the old and the new world, have long been recognized. They 

 are G. arundinacea L. and C. pendula Trin. The latter, the 

 more common of the two, has been reduced to a variet}^ of the 

 first-named, by some authors; but, aside from a marked diversity 

 in habit, there are important differences in the characters of the 

 spikelets quite sufficient to warrant a specific distinction. In 

 G. arundinacea the spikelets are larger, firmer in texture, more 

 strongly scabrous, more prominently nerved and there is a 

 decided inequality in the outer or empty glumes, while in G. 

 pendula these glumes are equal or nearl}' so. In both the floret 

 is stipitate, or raised on a short stallc above the insertion of the 

 empty glumes ; in other words, there is a slight elongation of the 

 axis of the spikelet between the two empty glumes and the flower- 

 ing glume. Mr. Bentham, in his " Notes on Gramineaj," states 

 that in G. arundinacea there is frequentl}^ a continuation of the 

 rhachilla in the form of a short naked pedicel behind the palea : 

 a character, he adds, that he has never seen in G. pendula. In 

 my own studies, I have found this prolongation of the rhachilla, 

 a common, not constant, character in both species, I have 

 observed it in the spikelets of G. pendula from Maine and from 

 Oregon ; in fact, my own observations would lead me to say that 

 it appears more frequently in that species than in G. arun- 

 dinacea. 



In regard to the variations in these two species something may 

 be said. G. arundinacea exhibits considerable diversity in the 

 size and diffuseness of its panicle and the spikelets, which range 

 from a little over two to nearly three lines in length, vary in 

 color from pale green to dark purple, but those characters men- 

 tioned above as distinguishing this species from G. pendula, 

 remain constant. There is greater variation of the panicle in 

 G. pendula, and also in the size of the spikelets ; these, however, 

 never reach two lines in length, and, although the empty glumes 



' Cinna macroura Kth. and other grasses that have been placed in this 

 genus, are now referred to Epicampes or Deyetixia. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



differ considerably as to width, acuteness and in the presence or 

 absence of the lateral nerves in the second one, they are always 

 very nearly equal in length. In the here-proposed new variety — 

 var. glomerula, from Washington Terr., Frank Tweedy, collector 

 — the equal, one-nerved empty glumes are very narrow, acuminate- 

 pointed and scarcely more than a line in length. The spike- 

 lets in this variety are arranged in dense clusters or glomerules 

 along the extremities of the branches of the very diffuse panicle. 

 A species of Cinna — Xo. 6090 Bolander, N. 22 of the small 

 collection — came into my hands for examination several years 

 ago, and my note at that time was that it was distinct from Cinna 

 arimdivacea, var. pendida^ of Gray's Manual, under which name 

 it was distributed. The past season my attention was again 

 called to this grass by seeing some notes upon it in Dr. Gray's 

 Herbarium at Cambridge, made, if I remember rightly, by Mr. 

 Bentham, suggesting the probability of its being a new species. 

 After careful comparisons with Cinna arundinacea and C. pen- 

 dula, I am convinced that this suggestion is correct, and propose 

 that the species be named Cinna Bolanderi, recognizing the fact 

 that Mr. Bolander, so far as I know, has alone collected it. 



Cinna Bolanderi. 



Spikelets two and a half lines long, empty glumes broadly 

 lanceolate, the upper one three-nerved, subequal, as long as the 

 floret, which is scarcely, if at all, stipitate ; culm stout, seven feet 

 high (in Bolander's specimen), smooth ; sheathes strongly striate, 

 the lower smooth, the upper ones scabrous. Leaves firm in 

 texture, prominently^ striate and scabrous on both sides, those of 

 the middle portion of the culm one to two feet long, and three- 

 quarters of an inch wide, all gradually tapering to a sharp point. 

 Panicle eighteen inches long, loose and widely spreading. 



From the characters above cited, the following synopsis van.y 

 be made of the species in the genus : 



Empty glumes unequal. 



Spikelets 'i\ to 3 lines long. C. arundinacea L. 1. 



Empty glumes equal or nearly so. 



Spikelet less than 2 lines long, floret stipitate. 



G. jwndula Trin. 2. 

 Spikelet more than 2 lines long, floret apparently sessile. 



C. Bolanderi Scribn. 3. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIL 



Fifi. 1. — Spikelet of C'/'nna pendula Trm. 



Fig. 2. — Same with empty glumes removed, and the elongated rhachilla 



behind the palea brought forward into view. 

 Fir. 3. — Spikelet of C. pendula, var. glomerula. 

 Fig. 4. — Spikelet of C. Bolanderi Scribn. 

 Fig. 5. — Same with empty glumes removed. 

 Fig. 6. — Spikelet of C. anmdinricea L. 

 Fig. 7. — A. larger spikelet of same. 

 Fig. 8. -A spikelet of C. arundinacea with empty glumes spread out, and 



the continuation of the rhachilla behind the palea brought into 



view. 

 Fig. 9. — Spikelet of C. arnndinaceri. empty glumes removed ; a, the stipe. 




292 proceedings op the academy op [1884. 



November 25. 

 Rev. H. C. McCooK, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fort^'-one persons present. 



Embryology of Fulgur, etc. — Mr. John Ford reported the 

 finding of capsules of Fulgur carica, containing living embryos, 

 near South Atlantic City, on November 16, 1884. 



As he had already secured live specimens in December, 188.3, 

 and in each of the six months following, this would prove the 

 deposition of capsules by the species mentioned during the largest 

 part of the year, instead of in the spring months only, as was 

 formerly supposed. Living embryos of F. canalicidata were also 

 obtained monthly', during the same period. 



About one-half of the original amount of albumen in those 

 found on the 16th, had been utilized by the young mollusks ; a 

 somewhat reasonable indication that they were near the middle 

 stage of embryotic growth. 



In further support of this probability, it was noticed that the 

 delicate cilia which characterize the animal in its earlier stages, 

 were much shortened, and the shells less transparent. 



On the other hand, the thin circular membranes upon the edges 

 of the capsules, through which the matured embryos finally 

 escape, were still unbroken, and in much the same condition as 

 when first exposed ; thus proving that the young mollusks were 

 as yet unprepared for a new stage of existence. 



Several other strings of capsules, including some of F. canalicu- 

 lata, were secured on the same occasion, but exposure to the sun 

 for a day or two, had killed the embryos. 



At the same locality were discovered two species of living 

 Pholades, P. ciHspata Linn, and P. truncata Say, also a fine 

 colony of living Littorina irrorata Say ; all of these species 

 being new, it is believed, to that part of the coast. 



It is probable that the billet of wood in which the Pholades 

 were found, had drifted from some distant locality, as there do 

 not appear to be any conditions favorable to their existence 

 between Brigantine Lilet and Great Egg Harbor Bay. 



In regard to the habitat of the Littorina there could be no 

 doubt w^hatever, as they were present in large numbers, and in a 

 flourishing condition, although dwelling literally upon the sand, 

 instead of on broken rock or pieces of timber, where the species 

 is usually found. It is southern in distribution, rarely occurring 

 north of the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. 



An Unfainiliar PJiizopod. — Mr. Edw. Potts remarked that he 

 had observed, upon a scale of mica schist about one square inch 

 in surface, clipped from a stone picked up near the eastern margin 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



of the Schuylkill River above the Spring Garden Water Works, 

 Pliiladelijhia, a dozen or more rhizopods of varying sizes, appar- 

 ently quite motionless, and, by direct illnmination, resembling 

 the familiar forms of Actinophrys or Actinosphrerinm. 



When removed to a compressorium and examined by trans- 

 mitted light, however, entirely different characteristics were 

 discovered. An outer surface or test was composed of infinite 

 numbers of minute, smooth, curved spicules, gathered somewhat 

 irregularly into radial, acuminate, conical groups, giving to the 

 mass very nearly the appearance of the seed-balls of the sweet- 

 gum tree, Liqiddambe?- atyracifiua. Within the cavity of this 

 spicular envelope, was seen a spherical protoplasmic body, 

 perhaps one-third of the diameter of the outer test, composed of 

 a multitude of granuliferous cells and a single non-central nucleus. 

 From this " body," many pseudopodal filaments were thrown out 

 through the interstices amongst the spicules, in direct radial 

 lines, to a distance exceeding the height of the spicular cones. 

 They were not constant, however, and at intervals none could be 

 discovered. To test the character of the spiculae, one individual 

 was treated with strong nitric acid and afterwards mounted in 

 balsam. The protoplasmic body was of course destroyed, but 

 the spicules remained, showing them to be, in all probability, 

 composed of siliceous material. 



The speaker was at first inclined to class this rhizopod with 

 the genus Acanthocystis^ but further examination convinced him 

 that it was more probably allied to Baphidiophrys, and a still 

 further examination of F, E. Schultze's papers on the Rhizopodae 

 warrants its complete identification with his Raphidiop)hryH 

 pallida. In his recent monograph upon this subject. Professor 

 Leidy has referred to this species his sketch of a single individual 

 likewise collected, some years ago, in the Schuylkill River. These 

 appear to be the onl}- instances in which it has been identified on 

 this continent. Its habit of l^nng close against a supporting 

 surface, seldom or never freely swimming, easilj^ distinguishes it 

 from other familiar Heliozoans. 



Note on the Intelligence of a Cricket parasitised by a Gordius. 

 — Dr. Henry C. McCook said that some remarks upon the habits 

 of the cricket published by him, had called forth an interesting 

 communication from Mrs. C. W. Conger, of Groton, New York 

 the substance of which is as follows : — 



" Some twenty-four years ago, my husband and myself took 

 possession of a large old frame house on a farm which was a 

 homestead for the largest, blackest, and most musical of the 

 cricket kind. Early in the fall, I began to be annoyed b}^ finding 

 one or more hair snakes in the water-pail. Though I knew that 

 there positively was nothing of the kind in the pail when it came 

 in, yet a few minutes or an hour generally provided us with a 

 more or less lively specimen. I had a horror of them, because 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



of the dread lest the children should imbibe one with their 

 frequent nips of the water, so I sat down, one warm afternoon, to 

 watch the pail, to try to learn how the snakes came. In about 

 ten minutes I saw a particular!}' plethoric cricket mount upon 

 the edge of the pail, and, after some uneasy movements, bring 

 the tip of the abdomen just beneath the water, and, with a few 

 violent throes, expel a black mass, which fell slowly through the 

 water, and before it reached the bottom resolved itself into one 

 of the worms. The cricket seemed exhausted by the horrid 

 birth, and did not find strength to draw itself up on the edge of 

 the pail for about eight minutes, and when it finally did so, it 

 tumbled to the floor and crawled off in a very rheumatic manner. 

 After this discovery, we used to amuse leisure hours by watching 

 like operations until fi'ost killed the crickets. I sometimes would 

 crush large crickets, generallj" with the result that a tightl}'- 

 coiled snake would be thrust out of a rupture just above the tip 

 of the abdomen ; but, whether the snake was not sufficiently 

 developed, or because of its needing water rather than air to 

 vitalize it, none of the snakes so produced showed any signs of 

 life." 



The water snake alluded to is, of course, a species of our 

 common Gordins, the same probably as that described, a number 

 of years ago, by our distinguished President, Prof. Jos. Leidy. 

 The fact that this animal is parasitic within the grasshopper, the 

 speaker had himself observed ; it has been said also to be para- 

 sitic within spiders, and doubtless has for its host many of the 

 orthopterous genera. The point of greatest interest in the letter. 

 Dr. McCook thought, is the fact that the crickets had evidently 

 learned that the parasite infesting them required the water in 

 order to make its egress, and had deliberately sought the suitable 

 place and assumed the proper position (by inserting the abdomen 

 beneath the surface of the water), necessary to insure that egress. 

 It is a curious physiological question : how did the cricket obtain 

 this knowledge? And, the knowledge having been obtained, the 

 cricket's subsequent behavior presents an interesting fact in the 

 study of insect intelligence. 



A New Parasitic Insect upon Spider Eggs. — Dr. McCooK 

 further stated that he had received, through Mr. F. M. Webster 

 (October, 1884), from Oxford, Indiana, a parasitised spider 

 cocoon (evidentl}^ of some saltigrade species), apparentl}' that of 

 Alius audax. The cocoon contained within the outer flossy case 

 about eighty cells and a number of mature black hymenopterous 

 insects, about one-eighth of an inch long. The cells were ovoid, 

 gray, blackish at the closed end, probably from excretions of the 

 enclosed larvae. One end was cut open, showing where the insect 

 had escaped. With the exception of a few hard, dried, yellowish 

 brown examples, all the eggs of the spider had disappeared. 

 The specimens were sent to Mr. L. 0. Howard, of the Bureau of 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Entomology, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, who 

 judged them, after a cursory examination, to be Proctotrupids, 

 belonging to the sub-family Sceliominaj, and seeming to form an 

 entirel}' new genus. Thus appears to be added one more to the 

 parasitic enemies of our spider fauna. 



Rufus Sargent and W. Henr^^ Grant were elected members. 



The following were elected correspondents: — John Ball, of 

 London ; William Carruthers, of London ; Rud. Leuckart, of 

 Leipzig; Anton Dohrn, of Naples ; A. Grenadier, of Halle i. S. ; 

 Alex. Gotte, of Rostock i. M. ; and Ludwig Will, of Rostock i. M. 



December 2. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



December 9. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Tliirty-one persons present. 



On Derivation in Finns edulis and Pinus monophylla — At 

 the meeting of the Botanical Section, on December 8, Mr. T[iomas 

 Meeiian called attention to some dried specimens of Finns mono- 

 phylla on the table, which were received in a fresh condition, a 

 few months ago, from Mrs. Lewers, of Franktown, Nevada. At 

 that time the phyllodes which took the place of the real leaves, were 

 all nionopliyllons. Li drying, several h:id opened in some speci- 

 mens, and others readily separated by a little aid, showing that the 

 species might have been two-leaved, but for some inability in the 

 earl}^ stages of development to separate them. This monophyl- 

 lous species was closely allied to Finns edulis, which was confined 

 to the Rocky Mountains; the monophyllous species being the 

 form that prevailed further west. But in a small tree of P. edulis, 

 growing in a deep ravine in Queen Canon, in the RockA' Moun- 

 tains, he had found on the same tree monophyllous, diphyllous, 

 and triph^dlous phyllodes, and there could not possibly be any 

 doubt that the species were of one origin. The case was one 

 worthy of note, because it had been charged that there was no 

 actual evidence of the truth of the doctrine of derivation. Gener- 

 ally when such evidences as these were offered, the objector was 

 prepared to abandon his belief in the specific distinctness of the 

 forms, rather than to grant that two distinct species had been 

 developed from one parent, and even in the case of these species 




296 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



there were some who regarded one as but a variety of the other. 

 But there were other distinctions : The cones were not quite the 

 same, and the seeds being very different in size and outline, so 

 that one could readily separate the seeds if mixed together. 

 There was in fact a whole series of distinctions, full3^ as great as 

 we could find in many well-recognized species, and which fully 

 entitled the two forms to full specific rank ; though in the face 

 of the evident facts that they are derivations of one original 

 parentage. Indeed, it was well known that when a plant changed 

 its character in one respect, it must do so in others ; plants in 

 some climates annual, would become perennial or suffrutescent in 

 others. The cotton-plant w^as a familiar example. In such cases 

 the foliage and other characters varied from those connected with 

 the annual form, and from this fact some botanists had regarded 

 Gossypium herbaceum and Gossypium arboreum as distinct 

 species. In the case of these two species of Finus, the one which 

 could not develop its ph3dlodes with two separate individuals, 

 would of necessity' present some peculiarities in the scales of the 

 cone, as these were, morphologically, but transformed phyllodes. 

 Under morphological laws, that which affected the leaves ought 

 to affect the carpels or other parts of fructification which were 

 modified from them. 



The true position of the species in development is that Pinus 

 edulis had the highest rank. In raising both species from seed 

 there was no difference whatever between the seedlings during 

 the first season. In these young and delicate plants, true leaves 

 were perfectly developed ; these were flat, linear lanceolate, and 

 of a deep glaucous hue. Pinus edulis assumed stout vigorous 

 branches the second year ; then the true leaves were suppressed, 

 a portion only being adnate with the stem forming a sort of 

 cushion, or as bud-scales, or bracts under tiie scales of the cone, 

 from the axis of which the ph3dlodes — secondary leaves, or 

 bundles of leaves of some authors — spring. In Pinus monophylla 

 only a few branches made phyllodes the second year, and he had 

 plants which were ten years old from the seed, wliich continued 

 to bear branches with true leaves almost equall3^ with those 

 bearing phyllodia. The monophyllous branches were never as 

 strong as those from Pinus edulis, and in ten years a plant of 

 Pinus edulis would be double the size of Pinus monophtjlla. 

 Assuming, as we might, that the tv/o had one parentage, we saw 

 that the one had less vigor of growth ; it retained more of its 

 juvenile characteristics, and retained them longer than the other; 

 and it never reached the power of development that Pinus edulis 

 had attained. We may say, with confidence, that Pinus mono- 

 phylla s\iTiing from the same parentage as Pinus edulis, find became 

 permanently different thi-oughout, b&ing subjected to condi- 

 tions unfavorable to a full development. It would appear that 

 the soil and climate of Nevada were not favorable to the usual 

 development of Pinus edulis, and hence, through the long course 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES 01 PHILADELPHIA. 297 



of ages, the suppressed features that characterized full maturity 

 in the original, became, under the law of heredity, permanent 

 ones. 



It was not often that we had such clear evidence of the unitj 

 of origin in two certainly distinct species, and as supporting the 

 modern ideas of evolution, the case was worthy of being placed 

 on record. 



December 16. 



The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper, entitled " Homologies of the Vertebrate Crj^stalline 



Lens," by Benjamin Sharp, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Robt. L. Weber, M. D., a member, was announced. 



Immediate Influence of Pollen on Fruit. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan directed attention to an ear of Indian corn on the table, 

 sent by Mr. Burnett Landreth, which had nearly all one side 

 with brownish red grain, the other side creamy white, which was 

 the normal color of the variety. Usually the intermixture of colors 

 which occasionally occurred in an ear of corn, is attributed to 

 cross-fertilization. It is apparent that this could not be the case 

 in this instance. The whole solid block is colored, and, at the 

 edge of the colored mass only half a grain would be colored in 

 some instances. The coloring influence had evidently spread 

 from some central point, quite independent of any single grain, 

 and had spread from grain to grain through the receptacle, until 

 the coloring material was exhausted. In cross-fertilization from 

 the entangled position of the silk-like pistils, no such regularity 

 of coloring in adjoining grains could occur. On reflection we may 

 understand that at times color in corn must come from causes 

 independent of cross-fertilization, as the departure in the first 

 instance from one color must be from an innate power to vary in 

 color, independently of any pollinating influence. 



The facts are interesting as bearing on many problems as yet not 

 wholly solved. Much has been said about the changes in nature 

 being by slow modifications through long ages, but we have fre- 

 quent instances of sudden leaps. There are no gradations between 

 the colors of these grains. Again, it is in dispute how far cross- 

 fertilization influences the seed. Generally, no immediate influ- 

 ence is conceded ; we have to wait till the seed grows, and we can 

 examine the new plant to ascertain the potency of the several 

 parents. So far, corn has been the chief, and almost the only, 

 evidence that the seed or its surroundings are immediately 

 affected ; but recently statements have been made that the recep- 

 tacle in the strawberry — what we know in every-day life as the 



SO 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



strawberry — is similarly influenced. There are some varieties 

 wholly pistillate, and it is claimed that when pollen is applied from 

 other varieties, the resultant fruit is that of the male parent. It 

 is of great practical importance that such a question should be 

 decided by undoubted facts. Experience in other directions does 

 not confirm these views. 



The Mitchella repens is reall}'^ a diojcious plant. Many years 

 ago he found one plant with white berries, and removed some 

 portion to his own grounds, where, isolated from others, it pro- 

 duces no fruit. In its native location it bears white berries freely, 

 though the pollen is from the original scarlet-berried forms. 

 Mr. Jackson Dawson had given him a similar case on Professor 

 Sargent's grounds, where a white-berried Prinos verticillatus is 

 produced, though it must have pollen from the original red- 

 berried form. Other illustrations were referred to. To those 

 who looked for regularity of rule in these cases, and in the light 

 of the specimen of corn before the meeting, there might be a 

 doubt whether the variation in corn, often attributed to cross- 

 fertilization, msLj not, in some cases, result from an innate 

 power to vary. It did not really follow that the rule should be 

 uniform, for those who had experience in hybridizing knew how 

 variable were the results, even from the seed of a single flower. 

 Parkman had obtained, in lilies, seedlings so exactly like the female 

 parent, that only for the remarkable form from the same seed- 

 vessel, known as Lilium Parkmani^ it might have been doubted if 

 some mistake as to the use of foreign pollen had not been made. 

 If so little influence could occasionally be found at a remote end 

 of the line, we may reasonably look for an immediate influence at 

 the nearer end in some exceptional cases. But there appeared to 

 be no carefully conducted experiments on corn recorded any- 

 where, though the belief in the immediate influence of strange 

 pollen is a reasonable one so far as general observation goes. It 

 seemed, however, to him, with the specimen of innate variation 

 in corn before us, more careful experiments with corn and other 

 things are desirable. 



December 23. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On a Remarkable Exposure of Columnar Trap near Orange, 



N. J.," by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



" Note on Some New Foraminifera from the Nummulitic 



Formation," by Prof. Angelo Heilprin, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 299 



"A Review of the American Species of Stromateidae," by 

 Morton W. Fordice. 



A Glacial Pebble. — Dr. Daniel G- Brinton exhibited a sup- 

 posed stone implement, obtained from the glacial drift in Butler 

 County, Ohio, sent to him by its finder, for examination. He 

 observed that, while there is no inherent improbability in such a 

 discovery — as it is quite likely that man, or at least an implement- 

 making animal, existed on this continent during the glacial 

 epoch — this particular specimen does not offer convincing evidence 

 that it is a work of art. It is a polished stone, resembling an 

 axe. Both these facts are against it. The axe type appears 

 late in the stone age, and nowhere, except in California, have 

 geologists gone so far as to put the age of polished stone so far 

 back in time as the tertiary period. In that enterprising State, 

 the men of science claim that, not merely fine, but the very finest, 

 examples of polished stone ever found in either continent are 

 exhumed, in situ originali, from gravels of the pliocene and post- 

 pliocene epochs (Foster, '• Prehistoric Races of America," p. 55). 

 This is in direct conflict with everything yet known of the older 

 stone age elsewhere. 



The present specimen illustrated anew how natural forces 

 occasionally simulate in their products the results of hand-work. 

 The criteria of the latter are, however, well-ascertained, and by 

 observing them one can scarcely be deceived in examining any 

 series of examples. 



December 30. 

 Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Forty-one persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




300 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



HOMOLOGIES OF THE VERTEBRATE CRYSTALLINE LENS, i 

 BY BENJAMIN SHARP, M. D., PH. D. 



I cannot better introduce my subject than by quoting the 

 following passage from Chas. Darwin : " To suppose that the 

 eye, with all its inimitable contrivances for adjusting the focus 

 to different distances, for admitting different amounts of light, 

 and for the correction of spherical and chromatic aberration, 

 could have been formed by natural selection seems, I freely 

 confess, absurd in the highest possible degree. Yet reason tells 

 me that, if numerous gradations from a perfect and complex eye 

 to one very imperfect and simple, each grade being useful to its 

 possessor, can be shown to exist ; if, further, the eye does vary 

 ever so slightly, and the variations be inherited, which is certainly 

 the case ; and, if any variation or modification in the organ be 

 ever useful to an animal under changing conditions of life, then 

 the difficulty of believing that a perfect and complex eye could 

 be formed by natural selection, though insuperable b}' our 

 imagination, can be hardly considered real. How a nerve comes 

 to be sensitive to light, hardly concerns us more than how life 

 itself first originated ; but I ma}^ remark that several facts make 

 me suspect that any sensitive nerve may be rendered sensitive to 

 light, and likewise to those coarser vibrations of the air which 

 produce sound. . . ."^ 



" If it could be demonstrated that any complex organ existed 

 which could not possibly have been formed by numerous, succes- 

 sive, slight modifications, my theory would absolutely break 

 down. But I can find out no such case. No doubt many organs 

 exist of which we do not know the transitional grades, more 

 especially if we look to much-isolated species, round which, 

 according to my theory, there has been much extinction. . . ."^ 



" In the cases in which we know of no intermediate or transi- 

 tional states, we should be very cautious in concluding that none 



' Being the principal part of an address delivered before the Biological 

 Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, December 

 15, 1884. 



''Darwin, Chas., "On the Origin of Species, by Means of Natural 

 Selection, etc." New lork (Appleton), 1861, p. 167. 



^ Darwin, Chas., Orig. of Species, etc., p. 169. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



could have existed, for the homologies of many organs, and their 

 intermediate states, show that wonderful metamorphoses in 

 function are at least possible." ' 



It will be my endeavor to sliow the stages of development of 

 the eye from the simple deposit of pigment in an epithelial cell 

 to the highest form known to us, that of the vertebrata. 



Invagination seems to be the most simple, as well as one of the 

 commonest, methods by which organs are formed in the animal 

 series. The formation of the gastrula, of the medullary canal, the 

 development of glands, etc., etc., by invagination, are cases too 

 well-known to require further comment. The formation of the 

 eye, ear, and nose, form no exception to this rule. 



In a previous paper ^ I have endeavored to show that the simplest 

 expression of an organ of sight is found in the Lamellibran- 

 chiata. These simple organs, however, are not morphologically 

 the primitive visual organs of the group, but adaptive organs, 

 the ancestral eyes being present, in a few forms, only for a short 

 time during the free larval stage of the animal ; it is lost when 

 the animal becomes fixed and the head excluded from the light. 



We will hastil}' review these simple eyes. 

 One of the simplest cases is found in Ostrea 

 virginica (fig. 1), in which we have, on the free 

 edge of the mantle, a number of epithelial cells fig. i.— visual ceiis 



... , / \ T -1 j> • y of Ostrea virginica. c, 



containing a nucleus (n), a deposit of pigment cuticle; p, pigment; 

 (p) in their exterior extremities, and on the "''^"°^"^' 

 outer surface a fine transparent, refractive cuticula (c). There 

 seems to be no protection for the organ, save the power of with- 

 drawal of the whole mantle within the valves of the shell. 

 Experiment conclusively proves that sight exists in these 

 animals, as shown by Ryder.^ 



We next find these pigmented visual organs confined to a 

 certain point of the mantle which has become specialized into 

 the so-called siphon. In Venus mercenaria we have these cells, 

 unprotected on the external surface of the siphon, but at the 

 same time some cells are more or less protected at the base of 

 the tentacles ; but as this animal is able to retract the entire 



^ Darwin, Chas., Orig, of Species, p. 182. 



- Sharp, B., On the Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata. Mittheil. a. d. 

 Zool. Stat, zu Neapel, Bd. v, 1884, p. 447. 



^ Ryder, J. A., Primitive Visual Organs. Science, vol. ii. No. 44, 1883, 

 ]). 739. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



siphon within the shell, protection is thus afforded to these 

 delicate organs. 



When we tind forms which are unable to wholly retract the 

 siphon within the shell, the visual cells are confined to grooves 

 at the bases of the tentacles. In the rapid withdrawal of the 

 siphon through the sand, in cases of danger, we can easil}' see 

 that the sharp particles would irritate any delicate org'an, and 

 protection must be afforded to them. Now, the possession of 

 sight at the only exposed portion of the animal, would be of the 

 highest value, in the struggle of life, to its possessor, if, when a 

 shadow, like that of a rapacious fish, is thrown upon the organ 

 of sight, a rapid retraction will save it from being nipped off. 



In Solen vagina and S. ensis, the former being 

 the species on which I first satisfactorily proved 

 the existence of a visual sense, ^ we find the cells 

 have become much more developed, as is seen in 

 fig. 2 (this being drawn to the same scale as that 

 of fig. 1), but are essentially on the same plan as 

 those in Ostrea. These cells line deep grooves at 

 the bases of the tentacles and are found nowhere 

 visual' ceiT of else, thus being amply protected from any injur3\ 



Sole7i vaqina. c, mi i • ^.i -in v. 



cuticle; p, pig- The nervcs supplying these visual cells are prob- 

 ment ; n, nucleus. ^^^^ ^j^^ ncrves of general sensibility, perhaps 



somewhat specialized. 



The remarkable organs of Pecten and Spondylus, I will not 

 here consider, as they throw no light on our immediate subject, 

 and have been considered by me elsewhere.^ 



In passing next to a higher group, the Gastropoda, from which 

 the Lamellibranchiata have probably degenerated, marked steps 

 in advancement are to be noted. 



In Patella we find that the pigment spots, or visual organs, take 

 their morphological position, namely in the oral end of the body, 

 and consist of a single pair in the base of the broad tentacle. 

 More than a single pair of eyes are not found in the Gastropoda.' 



' Sharp, B., On Visual Organs in Soleii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 Nov. 6, 1883, p. 248 ; also, On the Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata. 



'' Sharp, B., On the Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata. 



■' The adajtive dorsal eyes of Onchidiiim form an exception, but the 

 normal pair of cephalic eyes are present. See Semper, Carl, Ueber Seh- 

 organe von Typus der Wirbelthiereaugen am Riicken von Schnecken. 

 Wiesbaden (Kreid.l), 1877. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



In Patella^ as shown by Fraisse,^ there is a simple sphere, made 

 up of pigmented cells, similarly formed as those described for the 

 Lamellibranchiata. This sphere is open in front and allows the 

 entrance of the external media. 



Haliotis ^ gives us an advance ; here we have an open sphere as 

 in Patella^ but instead of the refractive cuticula to each cell, 

 they afe physiologically combined into one mass, forming a 

 lens. This lens is the product of the cells of the e^-e, and is 

 purely a secretion — a simple cuticular lens, as is found in all the 

 eyes of the invertebrata — while the lens of the vertebrata, where 

 it exists, is always cellular. The cellular lens-like bodies found 

 in the so-called eyes of Pecten and Spondylvs, and the dorsal eyes 

 of Onchidium, are exceptional, and will be treated of elsewhere. 



Fissurella ^ gives us an eye that goes practically as far as any 

 gastropod eye, the higher forms merely carry out, a little more 

 in detail, this plan. This results in a closed eye containing a lens, 

 the transparent epidermal covering acting as a cornea. The 

 pigmented layer is as in Haliotis^ namely, the cells composing 

 it are devoid of a transparent cuticula, the lens and cornea 

 serving as the refractive bodies. 



The phylogenetic development of the moUuscan eye, therefore 

 (cephalopoda excepted), is as follows: (1), a pigmental surface 

 of epithelial cells ; (2), pigmented invaginated grooves for pro- 

 tection, at centralized points of the body, each visual cell having 

 a cuticular body ; (3), this groove contracting to an open sphere 

 which closes ; (4), the refractive bodies of each cell being cen- 

 tralized into a cuticular lens. A distinct nerve, specialized for 

 sight, is developed {Haliotis and Fissurella), which connects the 

 eye with the superior cephalic ganglia. 



Now, let us see how the ontogenetic development agrees with 

 the phylogenetic. 



Bobretzky^ and Haddon ^ have given us the development of 



' Fraisse, Paul, Ueber MoUusken Augen mit embryonalem Typus. Zeit- 

 schr. f. wis. Zool., Bd. xxxv, 1881. 



^ Fraisse, Paul, Ueber Mollusken Augen mit embryonalem Typus. 

 Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. xxxv, 1881. 



^Bobret^ky, N., Studien iiber die embryonale Entwickelung der Gastro- 

 poden, Arch. f. m'kr. Anat. Bd., xiii, 1877. 



* Haddon, A. C, Note on the Development of Mollusca, Quart. Jour. 

 Mic. Sci., n. s., vol. xxii, 188'i. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



the gastropod e^^e, the former in Fusus, and the latter in Murex. 

 I have carefully investigated the embryological growth of this 

 same organ in Nassa, and lastl}^ Carriere^ gives an account of 

 the regenei'ation of the eye after amputation in the Pulmonata. 



We find that ontogen}' merely recapitulates phj-logeny, as we 

 would naturally anticipate. There is first an invagination, which 

 closing forms a sphere ; in the cells of this invagination there 

 is a deposit of pigment, and from them a cuticular lens is formed, 

 which increases in size by the addition of concentric layers. A 

 nerve is there developed and connects this eye with the superior 

 cephalic ganglia. 



We will now pass to consideration of the eyes of the vertebrata, 

 which, with a few exceptions, are remarkable for the similarity 

 in general plan of organization throughout the whole group. 



1 will not enter here into a detailed account of the work that 

 has been done on this subject, nor into a description of the finer 

 anatomy, except where necessary to illustrate points under con- 

 sideration. I leave these to a future and more exhaustive work 

 upon the "Anatomical and Physiological Evolution of the Organ 

 of Vision," upon which my friend. Dr. Charles A. Oliver, and 

 myself are now engaged, and which is to appear under our joint 

 names. 



The general structure of the eye of the vertebrata is well known, 

 and I will here simply draw attention, to some of the cardinal 

 points. 



The eye consists of a more or less spherical body, bounded in 

 front by a transparent plate, the cornea, which is a continuation 

 of the white opaque enveloping sheath of the eye-ball, called the 

 sclerotica. Internal to this sclerotica is a layer of pigment 

 (choro'idea), passing forward to about the position of the junction 

 of the cornea and sclerotica, and also extending over the posterior 

 wall of the iris. Lying on this pigmented layer is the retina, the 

 sensory portion of which is considered to be a continuation of 

 the optic nerve, and which passes beyond the equator of the eye 

 to a point called the ora serrata. The cavity of the e3'e-ball is 

 divided anterio-posteriorly into two. principal chambers, the 

 anterior one is again subdivided into two, called the anterior 

 and the posterior chamber, and includes all the space anterior to 



^ Carriere, Jus., Studien iiber die Regenerationseischeinungen bei den 

 Wiibellosen. I. Die Regeneration bei den Puhnonaten. Wiirzburg, 1880. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .305 



the lens. The anterior chamber is divided from the posterior by 

 the iris, the latter being a flattened projection of the vascular 

 layer of the chordidea. The hole in its centre is called the pupil. 

 These two chambers are filled with a fluid called the humor 

 aqueus. Back of the lens and iris is the largest chamber of the 

 eye-ball, called the vitreous chamber, and contains a semi-fluid 

 mass, known as the corpus vitreum. 



The lens is a cellular body, suspended from the process ciliaris 

 by the suspensory ligament; the process ciliaris of the iris, is an 

 extension of the vascular layer. 



The retina is composed of many layers ; one of the most 

 external, that which is directed toward the chordidea, is called the 

 laj'er of the rods and cones. The innermost layer, that next to 

 the corpus vitreum, is the layer of fibres of 

 the optic nerve ; between these two are several 

 ganglionic layers. The whole retina is practi- 

 cally transparent, and the light passes through 

 it unchanged to the point of contact of the 

 rods and cones with the pigmented layer. Here 

 the light-motion is transferred into a " nerve- 

 energy," which is transmitted to the perceptive 

 centres of the brain, ^ no light-motion, of course, 

 passes beyond the receiving sensory fibres 

 internally. The optic nerve pierces the retina fig 3'— Diagram rep- 

 a little on the nasal side of the optic axis. of'S T inTbl 

 It will thus be seen that the extraneous color- and ''" nenl^ne^r^ " 

 waves have, in their impinging upon the sen- the°bfiln,%' 'f "cier" 

 sory tips of the rods and cones, passed through ?eunl ; VS^V'; 

 the entire thickness of the retina, before it has The'r^ina o^tVJ'nervx^. 

 been put in a position to give a proper sensory ^^^''sy- 

 impression. In fig. 3, I have given a diagrammatical repre- 

 sentation. B is a. ray of light passing through the retina, and 

 impinging on the point of a rod or cone, n representing the 

 return through the cells of the retina (r) to the nerve-fibres, and 

 then passing by them to the brain, B. 



Now, to consider the development of the eye, we find that in 



' For a detailed account of this, see the forthcoming paper of Oliver, 

 Charles A., "A Correlation Theory of Color Perception," Amer. Jour. 

 Med. Sci., Jan., 1885. Dr. Oliver has kindly allowed me access to the 

 manuscript of this article. 



R 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



an early stage of the embryology of a vertebrate, the anterior 

 end of the medullary groove, or canal, as the case may 

 be, is divided into three segments, which later form the brain. 

 The anterior of these is known by the name of fore-brain, or 

 proencephalon ; the middle one, or mid-brain, is called mesen- 

 cephalon ; and the posterior, the hind-brain, or metencephalon. 



From the fore-brain proceeds outwards and laterally a swelling, 

 which increases in size, and passes on to the epidermis. Here an 

 invagination takes place, inward, to meet this outward brain- 

 growth. This invagination finally closes, and soon becomes cut 

 off, to form a hollow vesicle, the cavity of which is finally 

 obliterated, and, becoming transparent, forms the lens of the 

 adult eye. In the meantime, the growth from the brain has 

 arched over and above this vesicle, and then folds over laterally 

 to enclose the lens. This process of the brain is hollow, and 

 communicates with the ventricular cavities of the brain. ^ This 

 differentiation which has taken place, to 

 form the so-called " secondary optic vesi- 

 cle," is hardly an invagination in the true 

 sense of the word, but is rather a double- 

 walled plate, which folds downwards 

 around the lens, this is indicated in the 

 i-iG. 4.— Diagram to iiius- diagrammatic representation in fig. 4. 



trate the method by which ™, , „,, ^, , . . „ 



the second»ry optic vesicle The ICUS fills up the anterior Opening 01 

 encloses the lens which , , . « , i i , . . , 



should fill up the open end. the cavity 01 the Secondary optic vesicle, 



yeo ver e ra e. ^^^ ^^ ^j^^ ^^^ edgCS, a and h, close 



around the under surface of the lens, a certain amount of meso- 

 dermic tissue is included, which later forms the transparent 

 corpus vitreum. After the closure is completed, there is a 

 double-walled vesicle, the interior wall is the thicker of the two, 

 and later gives rise to the many-layered retina; the external wall 

 forms the pigment layer of the chordidea. It not unfrequently 

 happens that we find incomplete closure of the secondary optic 

 vesicle, and when this is the. case in the adult eye, the patho- 

 logical condition known to physicians as coloboma exists. This 

 may take place in the iris (coloboma iridis^, or in the retina 



' It must be borne in mind that the interior of the lens was once a part 

 of the general surface of the body, and also the interior of the secondary 

 optic vesicle, proceeding first by the formation of the medullary groove, 

 and then from that inward. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



(coloboma retinae) ; in the latter case, on examining the eye 

 with an ophthalmoscope, we can see a wedge-shaped white patch, 

 the base downwards, at the inferior part of the background 

 of the eye, the white is the sclerotica shining through. This is 

 merely a reversion to a primitive state — a failure in the union, 

 posteriorly, of the two lateral walls of the secondary optic vesicle. 



The optic nerve is formed by the bending over, and union 

 below, of the connecting portion of the secondary optic vesicle 

 with the fore-brain. The portion of mesoderm included by this 

 process is later termed the arteria centralis retinas. The sclerotica 

 and the vascular laj'er of the choro'idea are formed from the 

 mesoderm, and are merely organs for the nourishment and the 

 protection of the nerve-elements within. 



It seems to me that the steps taken in ontogenic development 

 of the eye, point out to us that the course which has been 

 pursued in its phylogenesis from a simple epithelial pigmentary 

 deposit, is as follows : The first visual organ primarily consisted 

 of a deposit of pigment, centralized at that portion of the animal 

 where it will be of the most use, viz. : at the oral pole. Since 

 animals as a rule proceed with this extremity forward, they are 

 developed in this situation ; but in some cases, as in the Lamelli- 

 branchiata, as pointed out above, they are developed at that 

 portion of the body which needs their protection. The next step 

 in advance is to protect these important organs, and as a conse- 

 quence invaginated grooves result, which graduall}^ shorten to 

 form a sphere. The refracting media of separate cells soon 

 coalesce, to produce a cuticular lens. The nerves of general 

 sensibility, connecting this eye with the brain, soon become 

 specialized, and form a distinct (primitive) optic nerve. As the 

 eye increased in importance and usefulness to its possessor, a 

 corresponding stimulation took place in the brain, where sight is 

 without doubt seated. Increased activity in any organ causes a 

 corresponding increase in blood-supply — or better, nutriment- 

 supply — and an increase of development took place all along the 

 tract, from the eye to the seat of vision in the brain. As this 

 increased, that part of the brain nearest the e^'e enlarged, and 

 proceeded by steps toivard the eye, similar to the process nowtaking 

 place in the development of the eyes of the Verlebrata, the primi- 

 tive optic nerve still connecting the two. We then have a stage 

 in which a part of the brain closes over the superior part of the 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



eye, being separated by a layer of fibres, which is the much- 

 shortened and flattened primitive optic nerve. The pedicle 

 connecting this advanced part of the brain, which may be looked 

 upon as a ganglion, we will now call the " secondar}^ optic nerve," 

 the optic nerve of the eyes of the adult Vertehrala. A similar 

 state of affairs as this is found to-day in the eyes of the Cephalo- 

 poda dibranchiata. This ganglion soon becomes the most impor- 

 tant part of the eye, and receives the light-waves upon its 

 exterior wall, the primitive eye becoming transparent, and later 

 forming the lens. This " ganglion opticum,'''' as it may be provi- 

 sionally called, gradually proceeds downwards about the primi- 

 tive eye, joining below. As development and importance 

 advance, we find the hollowing out of the ganglion opticum, 

 this structure later is filled with the corpus vitreum, which is 

 included, as was shown in the development of the eyes of the 

 Vertebrata. Thus, I hold, if this hypothesis be a true one, that 

 (1) the lens of the eyes of the Vertebrata is homologous with a 

 primitive invaginated eye, such as we find to-day in the gastro- 

 poda ; that (2) the layer of optic fibres of the retina is homolo- 

 gous with the primitive optic nerve. As the retina below has 

 become the sensory part of the e3'e, the rays of light must 

 necessarily pass through it, to reach a point where nerve-energy 

 is developed. The nervus opticus of the eyes of the Vertebrata 

 is, therefore, according to this view, really a secondary optic 

 nerve. 



We find in the vertebrata, and much more frequently in the 

 invertebrata, blind animals, the near relatives of which have well- 

 developed organs of sight. This blindness is due to the peculiar 

 environments of the animal, such as cave life, where light is 

 excluded ; parasitism, etc., etc. 



The Proteus of the Adelsberg grotto is an animal that is practi- 

 cally devoid of pigment. The eye of this practically blind animal 

 is remarkable, inasmuch, that no lens is developed in the adult 

 state. Our literature is unfortunately deficient in the embryology 

 of this interesting form, so it is at present a matter of impossi- 

 bility to state whether there ever exist a lens in the earl}'^ 

 development of the eye. The primitive optic vesicle has the 

 form of that of the embr3^os of those vertebrates which have 

 well-developed eyes in the adult state ; the retina is a thick, 

 many-celled layer, l^'ing on the stratum pigmcntum, which contains 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



a very meagre deposit of pigment ; the anterior edge of this 

 double-walled cup, formed by the retina and pigmented layer, 

 come together, owing to the absence of the lens. It is stated ^ 

 that no corpus vitreum is present. This degenerate eye is of 

 little use to the animal, and, besides the loss of the lens, it is 

 covered by the general integument of the body. Now it may 

 be argued, upon my hypothesis, that the lens should be last to 

 disappear, being phylogenetically the first to appear ; but as the 

 secondary optic vesicle has taken up the principal function of the 

 eye, viz. : the developing of nerve-energy, we would naturally 

 expect that the accessory organs would be the first to disappear 

 in the process of degeneration ; hence, the lens modified to an 

 organ of refraction, although the most primitive part of the eye, 

 would disappear before the secondary optic vesicle, since it has 

 lost its function as an eye and acts merely as a refractive agent. 



Another objection may be raised, which may be well to insert 

 here, viz. : Why should the process from the proencephalon 

 start before the invagination, to form the lens, the former being 

 a secondary state in the phylogeny of the animal ? I would 

 explain this by the fact that as the optic vesicle, being now the 

 most important part of the e^^e, and so established for many gen- 

 erations, now appears Jirst and disappears last in degeneration. 



In Myxena glutinosa, as described by Wm. Miiller,^ we have an 

 eye consisting of the secondary optic vesicle, as in the case of 

 Proteus, but open in front and filled with a plug of mesodermal 

 tissue. The eye is entirely devoid of pigment and lies buried 

 beneath a layer of muscle underlying the skin. The optic nerve 

 passes into the vesicle, and terminates in the retina, there being 

 no layer of optic nerve-fibres present at all. This eye has pro- 

 ceeded a step further in its degeneration, than the eye of Proteus, 

 being entirely devoid of pigment, and having become more deeply 

 imbedded, is covered by a layer of mesodermal tissue, the mus- 

 cular stratum. 



Thus in degeneration, the eye proceeds, step by step, back- 

 wards towards the brain, after first losing its accessories, such 

 as the lens, cornea, sclerotica, etc. 



' Semper, Carl. Animal life as affected by the natural conditions of exist- 

 ence. Intern. Sci. Series, vol. xxx, New York (Appleton), 1881, p. 78. 



^ Miiller, Wm. Ueber die Stammesentwickelung des Sehorganes der 

 Wirbelthiere. Festgabe an Carl Ludw;g. Leipzig (Vogel), 1875, p. vii. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884, 



In Branchiostoma lanceolatum we find the degeneration has 

 reached its greatest extreme. There exists no trace of the eye, 

 in form, and we recognize its existence only by a slight deposit 

 of pigment on the anterior end of the neural canal. The brain 

 itself has disappeared in this degenerate form, it going hand in 

 hand with the eye, so that the only remnant of it is a spot of 

 pigment on the anterior end of the neural canal. 



Now this deposit of pigment that we find in Branchiostoma — 

 and a similar deposit in the nerve-centres of some of the larvae 

 of the Ascidia, looked upon at one time as the ancestors of the 

 Yertebrata, while they are if Vertebrata at all, greatly degenerated 

 ones — led Lankester ' to regard the primitive type of the Verte- 

 brata as a transparent animal with eyes sessile on the brain, 

 I am of the opinion that forms so degenerate as Branchiostoma 

 and the Ascidia should not be taken as a standard, on which to 

 base our conclusions for the origin of the Vertebrata. 



In conclusion I may quote a passage from Tyndall,^ which we 

 have taken for our motto : " The eye has grown for ages toward 

 perfection, but ages of perfecting' may still be before it." 



* Lankester, E. R., Degeneration, a Chapter in Darwinism. Nature 

 series. London, 1880. 



' Tyndall, Jolin, Six Lectures on Light, London, 1873. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



ABEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF STR01IATEID.S:. 

 BY MORTON W. FORDICE. 



In the present paper I have attempted to collect the synonymy 

 of the American species of Stromateidee, and to give an analytical 

 key for the identification of the species. 



The specimens studied belong to the Museum of Indiana 

 University. 



Analysis of American Genera of Stromateidee. 



a. Ventrals very rudimentary or absent ; preopercle entire ; 



anterior rays of dorsal and anal fins more or less produced ; 



scales very small and thin ; caudal peduncle slender, not 



keeled ; gill-membranes free from isthmus ; caudal fin 



forked. Stromateus. I. 



aa. Ventrals present, 1,5; edge of preopercle serrate ; anterior 



rays of dorsal and anal fins not produced ; scales rather 



small, firm ; gill-membranes free from isthmus ; caudal 



peduncle rather stout, not keeled ; caudal fin lunate. 



Leirus. II. 

 I. STROMATEUS. 



Stromateus Linnaeus, 8yet. Nat., x, 248, 1768 (fia'ola ; paru). 



Rhombus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ii, .321, 1800 {alepidotua). 



Chrysostromus Lacepede, Hisr. Nat. Poiss., iv, 97, 1800 {fiatoloides = fiatola). 



Fiatola Risso, Eur. Merid., iii, 289, 1826 (fa-c'iata). 



Feprilus Cuvier, Regne Animal, 1828 (crenulatua). 



Seserinus Cuvi«r & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ix, 416, pi. 276, 18.53 (micro- 



cktrun). 

 ForonotUS Gill, Cat. Fith. East Coast N. A., 1861, 35 {triacanthuB). 



Analysis of American Species of Stromateus. 



a. Pelvis ending in a small spine ; ventral fins entirely wanting. 

 b. Dorsal and anal fins falcate ; the length of their highest 

 rays greater than that of head ; back elevated ; body 

 suborbicular ; snout vertical ; height of body 1^ in length ; 

 D. Ill, 45 ; A. II, 43 ; vertebra, 13+17 ; occipital crest very 

 high, its vertical height from supraroccipital bone con- 

 tained 3 in head {Rhombus Lac). paru. 1. 

 bb. Dorsal and anal fins little falcate ; the length of their 

 highest rays less than head. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18S4. 



c. Region below dorsal fin with a series of pores ; outline 



elliptical ; height of body 2^ in length ; D. Ill, 45 ; A. 



Ill, 37 ; vertebrae, 14+19 ; occipital crest moderate, the 



height from supra-occipital bone 4 in head (Poronotus 



Gill). triacanthus. 2. 



cc. Region below dorsal fin without conspicuous pores. 



d. Form elliptical; height of body 2\ in length; D. Ill, 



45 ; A. II, 39 ; vertebrae, 14 + lt ; occipital crest low, 



its height from supra-occipital bone 4| in head. 



simillimus. 3. 

 dd. Form broad-ovate ; height of body, lj% in length ; 

 dorsal with 42 developed rays ; anal with 32. 



medius. 4. 

 aa. Pelvis not ending in a spine (Stromateus) ; no trace of ventral 

 fins. 



e. Upper part of body with numerous round black spots ; 

 head, 4^; depth, 2^ ; D. YII, 40-43 ; A. Ill, 38. 



maculatus. 5. 

 1. Stromateus paru 



Faru Brasiliensi congener Sloan, Jamaica, 2, 285, tab. 250, f. 4, 1727 



(Jamaica). 

 Stromateiis paru Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. x, 248, 1758 (based on 

 Sloan's description); ibid., ed. xii, 487, 1766; Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 597 (Charleston, S. C); Jordan & Gilbeit, 

 Syn. Fish. N. A., 914, 1882. 

 Ghmtodon alepidotus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. xii, 460, 1766 (Charles- 

 ton); Gmelin, Syst. Nat., 1240, 1788 (copied). 

 Rhombus alepidotus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ii, 321, 1800 (copied). 

 Peprilus alepidotus Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 112 (Fernan- 

 diiia); Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 130 (Pensacola); 

 Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 92 (Beaufort, N. C; Norfolk). 

 Stromateus alepidotus Liitken, Spolia Atlantica, 1880, 521 ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 451 ; Bean & Dresel, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1884, 156 (Jamaica); Jordan *& Gilbert, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1884 (Egmont Key). 

 Sternoptyx gardenii Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 494, 1801 



(Carolina). 

 Stromateus gardenii Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 399, 1860 (New 



Orleans; Jamaica; Bahia). 

 Stromateus longipinnis Mitchill, Trans. Lit. Phil. Soc. New York, i, 



366, 1814 (New York Bay). 

 Rhombus longipinnis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ix, 401, 

 pi. 274, 1833 (New York); Dekay, New York Fauna, Fish, 136, pi. 

 75, f. 239, 1842. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 313 



? Seserinus xanthurus Quoy & Gaimard, "Voy. Freyc. Zool., 384, 

 1824." 



? Rhombus xanthurus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ix, 405 

 (Brazil). 



? Bhomhus argentipinnis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ix, 

 405, 1833 (Montevideo). 



? Rhombus crenulatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ix, 410, 

 1833 (Cayenne). 



? Rhombus orbicularis Guichenot, "Mem. Soc. Imp. So. Natur. Cher- 

 bourg, xii, 245, 1866" (Cayenne). 



Habitat. — New York to Jamaica, also probably southward to 

 Brazil. 



As Dr. Bean has shown the identity of the northern fish with 

 that found in Jamaica, there seems to be no doubt of the pro- 

 priety of retaining the name paru for this species. 



Possibly the South American species (xanthurus) is different, 

 the number of fin rays being given as D. lY, 40 ; A. Ill, 39. 



2. Stromateus triaoanthas. 



Stromateus triacanthus Peck, "Mem. Amer. Acad., ii, pt. 48, pi. 2, f. 

 2, 1804" (New Hampshire); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 398, 

 1860 (Boston ; New York); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 597 (Charleston, S, C); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 

 451, 1882. 



Peprilus triacanthus Storer, Fish. Mass., 60, 1839 (Massachusetts). 



Rhombiis triacanthus Dekay, New York Fauna, Fish, 137, pi. 26, 1842 

 (New York Harbor). 



Poronotus triacanthus Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861, 35 ; 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 377 (Beaufort, N. C); 

 Bean, Proc, U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 91 (Wood's Holl, Mass.; Noank, 

 Conn. ; Eastport, Me. ; Portland, Me. ; Norfolk, Va. ; Tompkinsville, 

 N. Y.; Banquereau; Vineyard Sound ; Gloucester, Mass.). 



Stromateus cryptosus Mitchill, Trans. Lit. Phil. Soc. New York, i, 365, 

 pi. 1, f. 2, 1814 (New York Bay); Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. 

 Poiss., ix, 408, 1833. 



Habitat. — Nova Scotia to Charleston. 



The nomenclature of this species offers no difficulties. The 

 generic name Poronotus proposed for it by Dr. Gill, seems unnec- 

 essary, as the species is evidently very closely related to S. 

 simillimus^ which lacks the series of pores, on which Poronotus 

 was based. 



21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



On examination of the skeletons of the three species, S. paru, 

 triacanthus, and simillimus, I find the first interhsemal greatly 

 developed in each of the species. The occipital crest is very 

 high in S. paru ; it is medium in S. triacanthus^ and low in S. 

 simillimus. The haemal and neural spines are more developed 

 in S. paru than in the other species, thus corresponding to the 

 form of the body. The vertebrae in S. triacanthus are somewhat 

 more numerous than in the others, as stated in the analytical 

 key. 



3. Stromatens simillimns. 



Poronotus simillimus Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1860, 84 (San 

 Francisco) ; Cooper, Nat. Wealth Cal., 1868, 489. 



Stromatevs simillimus Rosa Smith, Fish. San Diego, 1880 (San Diego) ; 

 Jordan and Jouy, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 13 (San Diego ; 

 Santa Barbara) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 

 46 ("Entire Pacific Coast, common, but most abundant from Santa 

 Barbara to San Francisco"); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 

 265 (name only) ; Jordan and Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 451. 



Habitat. — Puget Sound to San Diego. 



This species is common along the Pacific Coast, where it 

 replaces S. triacanthus of the Atlantic Coast. 



4. Stromateus medius. 



Stromateus mediusTeters, Berliner Monatsbericht, 1869, 707 (Mazatlan) ; 

 Liitken, Spolia Atlantica, 1880, 521 ; Jordan, Proc. Phila. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., 1883, 284 (original type). 



This species is now only known from the original type in the 

 Museum at Berlin, erroneously described by Dr. Peters. In 

 1882 numerous specimens were collected at Panama by Prof. C, 

 H. Gilbert, but all of these have been since destroyed by fire. 



5. Stromatens maculatas. 



Stromateus maculatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ix, 

 399, 1833 (Valparaiso); Jenyns, "Zool. Beagle, Fishes," 74, 1839; 

 Gay, "Hist. Chile, Zool.," ii, 248, Atl. Ictiol. lam., 3 bis, f. 1; 

 Glinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 398, 1860. 



Habitat. — Coast of Chili. 



Head ^ 4^ in length of body ; depth 2^ ; D. VII, 43 ; A. Ill, 39. 



Scales in lateral line about 160. Body ovate, compressed, 



^ The description of Stromateus maculatus was added by Seth E. Meek, 

 who alone is responsible for it. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 315 



dorsal and ventral outlines very similar to each other. Profile 

 evenly convex (with curve a little shorter at occiput) to snout in 

 front of nostrils, where it descends almost vertically. A slight 

 depression on each side of head, above nostrils, which makes the 

 profile more trenchant at that place. 



Mouth not very small ; the tip of maxillary does not quite 

 reach vertical from front of eye ; its length about 4:^ in head. 

 The teeth of the lower jaw pass just behind those of the upper 

 jaw, when the mouth is closed. Eye small, 5:^ in head. Pseudo- 

 branchiae well developed. Gill-rakers weak and flexible, 12 below 

 the angle, the longest about | eye. Preopercle entire. Branchi- 

 ostegals 6. Pelvis not ending in a spine. No trace of ventral 

 fins. No pores along the base of dorsal fin. The soft dorsal and 

 anal fins similar to each other, except that the anterior rays 

 of dorsal are correspondingly higher than those of the anal. 



The dorsal spines are distant from each other, and quite 

 imbedded in the skin. The first spine is on the vertical above, 

 from upper part of gill-opening. Distance of first ray of soft 

 dorsal to tip of snout equals the depth of the body. Distance 

 from first ray to last ray of soft dorsal is contained 1| in length 

 of body. Distance of first ray of anal to tip of snout about 2 

 in length of body. Base of anal 2 in length of body. 



The mucus-pores on upper anterior part of head form a sort of 

 irregular network. A main branch arises a little anterior to 

 upper part of gill-opening, which sends off branches, extending 

 backwards almost straight, and parallel to each other. 



The greatest width of head 2 in its length ; the greatest width 

 of body (midway on a line from upper part of gill-opening to 

 base of last anal ray) 2| in head. Cheeks and opercles scaly. 



Color in alcohol blue above, with numerous round dark blue 

 spots, about ^ as large as eye ; below silvery. Below pectorals, 

 on anterior half of body, ai-e some irregular blue markings. 

 Pectorals blue ; caudal yellowish, with faint bluish shade on tips 

 of its rays. The pectoral fins are about as long as head. 



The above description was taken from a specimen in very good 

 condition, from Rio Grande do Sul, South America. The speci- 

 men is in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. It was originally sent there from the Museum of 

 Comparative Zoology. Length of specimen, 14 inches. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



II. LEIRUS. 

 Leirus Lowe, " Proo. Zool. Soc, London," 1839, 82 {betmetii = ovalis). 

 Falinnrus Dekay, New York Fauna, Fish, 118, 1842 {perci/ormis). 

 Criu8 Valenciennes, "Webb and Berthelot, Isles Canar. Poiss." (bennetti). 

 Fammelas GUnther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 485, 1860 {perci/ormu). 

 Palinuriohtbys Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860,20 (perei/ormis). 

 Falimirichthys Bleeker, about 1860 {perdformis). 



Analysis of American Species of Leirus. 



a. Body ovate ; the greatest depth, 2^ in length. Head, 3^ ; D. 

 YIII, 20 ; A. Ill, 16 ; Lat. 1. 15. perdformis. 1, 



aa. Body more elongate, its greatest depth 3^ in length. Head, 

 3; D. VIII-IX, 26-28; A. Ill, 18; Lat. 1. 80-90. 



peruanus. 2. 



I follow Jordan and Gilbert in regarding Leirus as a genus 

 distinct from Centrolophus, from which it differs chiefly in the 

 differentiation of the dorsal spines, and in referring to Leirus, 

 the Palinurichthys perdformis of American writers, which 

 appears to be a near relative of Leirus ovalis, although Dr. 

 Giinther has placed it among the Garangidse. 



1. Leirus peroiformis. 



Rudder fish or PercJi eoryphene Mitchill, Lit. Phil. Soc, i, pi. vi, f. 7, 



1814 (no description). 

 Coryphene perdformis Mitcliill, Am. Month. Mag., ii, 244, 1818 



(New York Harbor). 

 Palinurus perdformis Dekay, New York Fauna, Fish, 118, pi. xxiv, 



f. 25, 1842 (Shrewsbury Inlet). 

 Pammelas perdformis Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 485, 1860 



(Coast of New York). 

 Palinurichthys perdformis Gill, Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1860, 



20 (name only); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 91 (Wood's 



HoU, Mass. ; Ofif Noman's Land ; New York Market ; Newport, 



R. I. ; Gloucester, Mass. ; Fishing banks, off coast of Maine). 

 Lirus perdformis .Jordan and Gilbert. Syn. Fish. N. A., 452, 1882. 

 Trachinotus argenteus Storer, Mass. Rep., 55, 1839 (Holme's HoU, 



Mass. ; not of Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Habitat. — Maine to New York. 



This species has apparently but a limited range on our Atlantic 

 coast. It is apparently congeneric with Centrolophus ovalis 

 Cuv. and Val., the type of Lowe's genus Leirus. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIIiADELPHIA. 31 1 



2. Leiras peruaaus. 



Centrolophus peruanus Steindachner, Ichthyologische Beitrage, i, 10, 

 1874 (Callao). 



Habitat. — Coast of Peru. 



This species is known to me only from Steindachner's descrip- 

 tion. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



017 A BEMABEABLE EXP08TJBE OF COLUMNAB TBAP NEAB OBAVGE, 

 NEW JEBSEY. 



BY PROFESSOR ANQELO HEILPRIN. 



The remarkable exposure of trap, near Orange, New Jersey, to 

 which attention has recently been called by the State Geologist, 

 Prof. George H. Cook, is in many respects the finest example of 

 geotechnic architecture to be found in the Eastern United States. 

 Although a true columnar structure is by no means a rarity in this 

 State, indeed, rather the contrary, yet strikingly enough, where 

 any extensive exposure of the trap occurs, there the columnar 

 structure appears to be in most instances either only partially 

 developed, or where developed, only of a very indeterminate 

 character. This is well shown in the case of the Palisades fronting 

 the Hudson River, where, for the greater part of their extent, 

 only an approximation to anything like such structure can be 

 made out. In the case of the locality presently to be described, 

 however, which is situated on the face of the first interior ridge 

 trending parallel with the Palisades, whose age probably differs 

 but little, if at all, from that of the Palisades, we are presented 

 with the reversed condition of things; the columnar structure is 

 here developed, not only on a most imposing scale, but in all the 

 varied conditions under which such structures appear. 



The exposure of O'Rourke's quarry (Plate YIII) is located some 

 one and a half or two miles back of Orange, on the slope of Orange 

 Mountain, and, consequently, in the line of the first trap ridge. 

 It measures 750 feet in length, and 98 feet 2 inches greatest 

 height above the base or working line. The material quarried 

 (worked now for a considerable number of years) is the familiar 

 post-Triassic (?) " trap," or " greenstone," the material of the 

 Palisades quarries, which, until recently, supplied the city of New 

 York with a great part of the Belgian paving blocks. That which 

 immediately arrests the attention of the visitor to the quarry is 

 the magnificent display of the columnar structure, thousands of 

 basaltic columns of the hexagonal and pentagonal pattern appear- 

 ing, if not in the absolute perfection of the similar columns of the 

 Giant's Causeway and Fingal's Cave, in a perfection but very 

 little inferior to these. The base or lower half of the exposure is 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 319 



made up of a vertical palisade of 120 or more columns, measuring 

 individually from 15 to 40 or 42 feet in height, and from 3 to 5 

 feet, or even more, in thickness. Towards the middle the height 

 of this palisade has been greatlv reduced, partly through the 

 failing of the columns themselves, and partly through the artificial 

 destruction that has here been effected. Above this line, which 

 in some parts is sheared off as evenly as though it had been 

 manipulated b}' the hand of man, the columns suddenly diminish 

 in size, and instead of retaining the vertical position, now arch 

 diagonally upward and outward, meeting from opposite sides to 

 form an apex immediately under the highest point of the exposure. 

 Many of the columns rest horizontally, or nearly so. Beyond the 

 horizontal layer, what may be considered as a third series of 

 columns makes its appearance, and here, again, the vertical posi- 

 tion is assumed. The material of the glacial drift, as indicated 

 by a heterogeneous assemblage of pebbles and boulders, rests on 

 top, forming the subsoil of the region. 



The first impression produced upon the casual observer by the 

 complete exhibit is one indicating disturbance ; the arched or 

 diagonally inclined, and apparently disturbed, position of the 

 columns of the upper and inner portion of the mass, would seem 

 to imply an upheaving thrust from below, just underneath the 

 apex. In other words, it would appear that we were over the 

 seat of some subterranean disturbing force, or in the centrum of 

 volcanic action, and, therefore, in the position of a true vent. But 

 had there been such a thrust as is here implied, we should expect 

 to see its effects revealed in a fracture or dislocation below the 

 top, whereas none such is apparent. On the contrary, the con- 

 tinuit}'^ of the columnar mass is fully as well marked on top as 

 anywhere else, and no indications of special disturbance are any- 

 where manifest. We are hence forced to the conclusion that the 

 irregular and apparently disturbed position of the columns is not 

 in reality due to any disturbing agent, but is merely the result of 

 peculiar conditions of cooling and solidification of the original 

 molten substance (lava). In other words, while some portions of 

 this molten lava " crystallized " into vertical prismatic columns, 

 other portions " crystallized " horizontally, and in all the interme- 

 diate planes lying between the horizontal and vertical. This 

 irregular method of columnar formation, a perfect parallel of 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



which is observed along the River Alignon in the Ardeche, was 

 first critically discussed by the late Poulett Scrope, who investi- 

 gated its causes midst the volcanic debris of Central France, and 

 clearly determined that it was the result of irregular convection 

 and radiation of heat, and consequent irregular solidification. 

 The deep la^^ers, where the loss of heat was effected slowly 

 through conduction with the underlying rock, produced stout 

 vertical columns; the more superficial layers, where radiation 

 was most active, frequently produced horizontal columns, while 

 between the two were found columns occupying all the interme- 

 diate positions. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 321 



NOTES ON SOME NEW FOBAMINIFEBA FROM THE NUMMULITIC 

 FORMATION OF FLORIDA. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



Since the publication of my paper on Nummulites Willcoxi 

 Heilprin (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, July, 1882 ; reprinted in my 

 " Contributions to the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the 

 United States," Phila., 1884), in which the existence of a true 

 Nummulite in the rocks of the North American continent was first 

 indicated, I have had the good fortune to have passed under my 

 supervision an extensive series of the Florida nummulitic rock. 

 In these, for which I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Joseph 

 Willcox of this city, I have detected a considerable number of 

 foraminiferal forms which have not hitherto been recognized, I 

 believe, as occurring in the United States Tertiaries, but which 

 are usually present in larger or smaller quantities wherever the 

 nummulitic formation is largely developed. Among these, as 

 coming from Hernando County, are the genera Heterostegina. 

 Sphaeroidina, Biloculina (?), Triloculina^ Quinqueloculiiia, and 

 Spiroloculina. The genus Orbitoides is very abundantly repre- 

 sented in two or more species, one of which, unmistakably the 

 0. ephippium (0. sella), so distinctive of the Oligocene portion 

 of the European Terrain nummulitique, appears pre-eminent for 

 its lai'ge size. The great development of this species, irrespective 

 of all other evidence, would almost be sufficient by itself to 

 determine the age (Oligocene) of the rock formation in which it 

 occurs. 



Associated with these forms are very considerable numbers of 

 the Nummulites Willcoxi, and also a second species of the same 

 genus of very much larger size. In it the whorls 

 expand very rapidly in size, and the septa, in addition 

 Nummulites to being Comparatively more numerous, are consider- 

 FioridensM. ^^^^y more flcxcd than in the commoner species. The 

 test measures between one-third and one-half of an inch in diam- 

 eter. I propose naming this species Nummulites Floridensis, 

 although I am by no means satisfied that it may not prove to be 

 identical with one of the many closely related forms that have 




322 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1884. 



been described from the south of Europe, the West India Islands, 

 and elsewhere. Only an actual comparison of specimens can, in 

 most instances, determine specific identity 

 or variation in the case of this most diffi- 

 cult group of organisms. Pending the in- 

 terval which must of necessity intervene 

 before such comparison can be made, I 

 have deemed it the safer plan to describe 

 and name the species, subject to revision. 

 A new locality for Nummulites Willcoxi 

 has been found by Mr. Willcox, situated 



Nummnlites Willcoxi. 



1. Natural size ; 2. Enlarged, some fifteen milcs to the northeast of the 

 locality on the Cheeshowiska River, whence the species was orig- 

 inally obtained. Here the rock masses containing the fossils 

 lie in situ, and at an elevation of not less than 150 feet above the 

 sea. The existence of a true nummulitic basement formation in 

 the State of Florida is thus placed beyond question, and, doubt- 

 less, the same will be found to have a very considerable extension 

 inward. 



No specimens of the Operculina rotella (= Operculina com- 

 planata f) have been detected in this newer series of rock frag- 

 ments. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the 

 Publication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 80, 1884, thirty-two members and twenty- 

 two correspondents have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received and accepted, 

 on the usual conditions, from J. Henry Simes and John Shallcross. 



The deaths of eleven members. and six correspondents have 

 been announced. As these have been duly recorded in the Pro- 

 ceedings under the date of announcement, the names are not here 

 repeated. 



Thirty -three papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows ; N. A. Randolph, 2 ; Miss S. G. Foulke, 2 ; David S. Jordan, 

 2 ; Angelo Heilprin, 2 ; Theo. Gill, 2 ; Seth E. Meek and Robert 

 Newland, 2 ; Seth E. Meek and David K. Goss, 2 ; Seth E. Meek, 

 1 ; Seth E. Meek and Martin L. Hoffman, 1 ; Andrew J. Parker, 

 1 ; Benjamin Sharp, 1 ; Joseph Swaim and Seth E. Meek, 1 ; Rev. 

 H. C. McCook, 1 ; Thomas Meehan, 1 ; Otto Meyer, 1 ; Rafael 

 Arango, 1 ; Eugene N. S. Ringueberg, 1 ; Jos. Willcox, 1 ; Edw. 

 Potts, 1 ; Henry J. Carter, 1 ; Frederick D. Chester, 1 ; D. G. 

 Brinton, 1 ; Henry F. Osborn, 1 ; Herman Strecker, 1 ; Asa Gray, 

 l,and F. Lamson Scribner, 1. 



These have all been printed in the Proceedings. 



One hundred and twenty-eight pages of the Proceedings for 

 1888, and two hundred and sixty-four pages of the volume for 

 1884, have been printed and distributed, the latter being illus- 

 trated by six plates. Eighty-five pages of the Journal have also 

 been published, completing the first part of the ninth volume. 

 These pages contain the conclusion of A. J. Garrett's paper on 

 Society Island Mollusca, illustrated by two lithographic plates, 

 containing one hundred and fifty-two figures, and a valuable paper 

 by Professor Heilprin, on the Tertiary Geology of the Eastern and 

 Southern United States, illustrated by a colored map. The Pub- 

 lication Committee has recently been compelled by lack of means 

 to decline a contribution to the Journal of a valuable paper, not- 

 withstanding the fact that a series of beautiful illustrative plates 

 were offered free of expense, except for printing. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Twenty-two foreign societies have been added to the exchange 

 list, making now a total of 335 societies and journals, to which 

 the numbers of the Proceedings are sent by mail as they are 

 issued. Fifty-two of these receive also the Journal. Letters 

 applying for deficiencies, and proposing exchange of publications 

 as noted in the report of the Librarian, have been productive of 

 the most gratifying returns. 



The average attendance at the meetings during the year has 

 been twenty-seven. Verbal communications have been made by 

 twenty-six members ; they have been for the most part published 

 in the Proceedings. 



The most important event in the history of the Academy 

 during the past year, was the passage of an amendment to the 

 charter by means of which the Society is empowered to hold a 

 larger annual income than heretofore. The preliminary step to 

 the securing of such an amendment was taken by the meeting 

 held December 4, 1883, when the following preamble and resolu- 

 tions were adopted by a unanimous vote : — 



Whereas, The limit of the yearly income of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, fixed by the charter at eight 

 thousand dollars, is, in the opinion of the members, insuflScient 

 for the necessary requirements of the corporation, therefore — 



Resolved, That the officers of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia be, and they are hereby authorized and empow- 

 ered and requested to petition in due form the proper Court in 

 Philadelphia, under the Act of Assembly of Pennsylvania, enti- 

 tled "An Act to provide for the incorporation and regulation of 

 certain corporations," approved the 29th day of April, A. D. 

 1874, to so amend the charter of said corporation as to enable the 

 Academy to hold a much larger income, as follows, to wit: By 

 striking out, in the proviso to Section I of said Charter, after the 

 word " income," the following words — " of such estate shall not 

 exceed eight thousand dollars, nor," and insert in lieu thereof the 

 following words, " from the real estate shall not exceed twenty 

 thousand dollars ; nor shall the income of the corporation " — so 

 that the proviso to said Section I, as amended, shall read as fol- 

 lows : '"'■ Provided, That the annual income from the real estate shall 

 not exceed twentj^ thousand dollars ; nor shall the income of the 

 corporation be applied to any other purpose than those for which 

 this corporation is formed." 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



After the required foi-malities had been complied with, the 

 consent of the Court to the amendment applied for was 

 announced to the Academy at the meeting held January 22, 1884, 

 and at the following meeting, the thanks of the society were 

 tendered, by resolution, to Mr. Uselma C. Smith, its solicitor, 

 for his services in securing such action. 



Chapter I, Article 6, and Chapter XVI, Article 4, of the By- 

 Laws were amended by the meeting held October 28, as reported 

 at length under that date on page 261 of the Proceedings. 



On January 29, resolutions providing for an increase of the 

 building fund of the Academy, were adopted, and on February 19 

 a committee, consisting of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, Dr. Chas. 

 Schaffer, Mr. Geo. W. Trj'^on, Jr., Prof. Angelo Heilprin, and Dr. 

 Horace F. Jayne, with power to increase the number, was 

 appointed to carry the resolutions into effect. 



Resolutions expressive of the Academy's interest in biological 

 instruction, and urging the desirability of the endowment of 

 biological professorships in connection with the Society, were 

 adopted February 26. 



At the meeting held March 18, a communication from Dr. 

 William Pepper, proposing the establishment of a Biological 

 Institute, to be under the joint control of the University of 

 Pennsylvania and the Academy, was referred to the Council for 

 consideration and report. While the subject was still under con- 

 sideration, and before the Academy was called upon to take 

 definite action upon it, a letter was received from Dr. Pepper 

 acknowledging, on behalf of the Trustees of the University, the 

 courtesy with which their former communication had been 

 received, but expressing the belief that " it is, for the present at 

 least, wiser for the University to pursue independently the 

 development of the special field of biological work and teaching 

 devolving upon her." Further consideration of the desirability 

 of the proposed joint government was thereupon suspended, and 

 the operations of the Academy's Committee on Instruction were 

 carried on independently, as set forth in the reports of the 

 several professors herewith presented. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp was elected Professor of Invertebrate 

 Zoology January 29, and delivered his inaugural lecture on 

 February 3. 



Dr. D. G. Brinton was elected Professor of Ethnology and 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Archaeology February 26, and opened his course in a lecture 

 delivered before the Academy April 4. 



The resignation of Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt as Professor of 

 Microscopic Technology was received and accepted May 2T. 

 His successor has not yet been appointed. 



At the meeting of the Council held November 24, Mr. Jacob 

 Binder was appointed Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, 

 to serve, in compliance with the Articles of Agreement, during 

 the ensuing twelve months. Mr. Binder accepted the position 

 and declined receiving a compensation for his services. A reso- 

 lution expressive of the Academy's appreciation of Mr. Binder's 

 efficient discharge of the duties of his position during the past 

 year, was adopted by the meeting held November 25. 



During the meeting of the American Association for the 

 Advancement of Science, held in September, the museum and 

 library of the Academy were visited by many of the attending 

 members, and by representatives of the British Association. 

 The Academy is to be congratulated on having been able to add 

 materially to the interest of the important occasion, both by the 

 extent of its library and museum, and the receptions and excur- 

 sions given under the auspices of its Botanical, and Biological 

 and Microscopical Sections. The generous support given by the 

 citizens of Philadelphia to the Local Committee, in its endeavor 

 to provide fittingly for the meeting referred to, is an encouraging 

 indication of an intelligent interest in science, and consequently 

 in the welfare of the Academy and kindred institutions. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The duties of the Corresponding Secretary, as defined by our 

 laws, show very little variety from year to year. It is, however, 

 gratifying to note that the number of societies with which we 

 are in correspondence shows a notable increase. The trans- 

 mission of our publications by mail, begun last 3'ear, places us 

 in closer relation with foreign societies ; many of them have 

 agreed to^reciprocate, while a few prefer the old method of trans- 

 mission, for reasons which have been read at various times. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 32t 



It being the duty of the Corresponding Secretary to 

 acknowledge all gifts to the Museum, the usual circulars have 

 been signed, and the Curator-in-charge, to whom tlie addresses 

 are generally known, has sent them to the donors. A full 

 account of the donations will appear in the Curator's report. 



During the year ending November 30, there have been twenty- 

 two correspondents elected, to all of whom notification has been 

 promptly forwarded, and, excepting to those very recently 

 elected, the diploma has also been sent. Of the correspondents 

 elected during the present and past j^ear, seventeen have 

 acknowledged their election, many having at the same time 

 transmitted valuable publications. 



Official notification has been received of the death of Joachim 

 Barrande, Quintino Sella and Sven Nilsson, correspondents. 



While the number of letters from societies, etc., does not indi- 

 cate the entire number receiving our publications, it may be inter- 

 esting to note that nineteen are from societies, libraries, etc., in 

 North America and Mexico, two from South America, and fifty- 

 three from the Eastern Hemisphere. The entire number of 

 letters, announcing the receipt of our publications, during the 

 year is one hundred and nineteen. 



Letters of transmission, with which foreign societies usually 

 accompany their publications, have diminished during the year, 

 owing probably to the transmission of the publications by mail. 

 These letters number forty-four. 



The activity of our Librarian, in endeavoring to supply defi- 

 ciencies in our library, usually induces a corresponding demand 

 on us from our corresponding societies. Letters of this 

 character are noted to the number of nine. 



Letters of a miscellaneous nature — in response to our invita- 

 tion to exchange by mail, regarding deficiencies for which we 

 have applied, announcing anniversary festivities — have been 

 received from foreign societies, numbering nineteen. 



In addition to the above, a considerable number of trivial 

 letters have been received, and, where necessar}'', replied to, 

 mostly entirel}' unimportant, and often of a purely personal nature. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 




328 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the twelve months ending November 30, 1884, 3422 

 additions have been made to the library', an increase of 419 over 

 the growth of 1883. These additions have consisted of 480 vol- 

 umes, 2760 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 182 maps, 

 sheets, photographs, etc. 



They have been derived from the following sources : — 



Societies, 1356 



Editors, 866 



I. V. "Williamson Fund, . . 520 



Authors 280 



Dr. G. E. Abbot, 145 



"Wilson Fund, 37 



Department of the Interior, . 29 



Geological Survey of India, . 19 



Geological Survey of Sweden, 17 

 Russian Geological Commission, 16 



Dr. F. V. Hayden, .... 15 

 Northern Transcontinental 



Survey, 14 



Geoldgical Survey of Belgium, 12 



Geological Survey of Kentucky, 10 

 Min ster of Public "Works, 



France, 8 



Department of Agriculture, . 8 



H. B. M. Government, ... 8 



Treasury Department, ... 7 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin, ... 6 

 Second Geological Survey of 



Pennsylvania, 6 



Dr. R. J. Dunglison, ... 5 



Geological Survey of Canada, 4 



~ H. Redfield, 4 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 U. S. Fish Commission, . . 

 Navy Department, .... 

 Geological Survey of New 



Zealand, 



"War Department, .... 

 Trustees of British Museum, . 

 Smithsonian Institution, . . 

 Ex. of Wm. S. "Vaux, . . . 

 Commissioners of Inland Fish- 

 eries, 



F. G. Schaupp, 



East Indian Government, . . 



Geological Survey of Rouma- 

 nia, 



Census Commission of Buenos 

 A'res 



"W. H. Dougherty, .... 



Depaitment of Mines, Nova 

 Scotia, 



Royal College of Surgeons, . 



Justin "Winsor 



Trustees of Indian Museum, . 



Brazilian Museum, .... 



Dr. A. E. Foote, 



Chas. E. Smith, 



J 



The departments of the library, to which these additions were 

 disti-ibuted, and the proportions of such distribution, are as 

 follows : — 



Journals, 2382 



Geology 250 



Anthropology, 166 



General Natural History, . . 103 



Conchology, 82 



Botany, 55 



Anatomy and Physiology, . . 53 



Entomology, 51 



Med cine 45 



Chemistry, . 40 



Physical Science, 23 



Ornithology, 21 



Helminthology, 20 



Education, 20 



Voyages and Travels, ... 14 



Mammalogy, 13 



Agriculture, 12 



Encyclopedias, 12 



Bibliography, 12 



Ichthyology, 11 



Mineralogy, 10 



Geography, 3 



History, 1 



Miscellaneous, 23 



In consequence of the necessary curtailment of appropriations, 

 no binding has been done during the year. It is to be hoped 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 329 



that a permanent Binding Fund, may be soon placed at the dis- 

 posal of the Library Committee. While the estimate for binding 

 is, properly enough, one of the first to be curtailed when expenses 

 have to be reduced, yet our rapidly increasing sets of journals 

 and the many valuable illustrated books which reach us in parts 

 as issued, are in danger of being injured or rendered incomplete 

 while used in the unbound form. 



The card catalogue of periodicals has been completed, and will 

 be transcribed in the form of a hand catalogue for the greater 

 convenience of those consulting this, perhaps the most important, 

 department of the library. Occasion was taken as the catalogue 

 progressed to make careful memoranda of deficiencies. 243 

 letters have been written applying for lacking parts and volumes 

 of incomplete sets of journals now in our possession, and 59 

 proposing exchange with societies, the publications of which are 

 not represented on our shelves at all. The responses to these 

 letters have been of such a satisfactory character as to account, 

 perhaps entirel}', for the excess of additions over the number 

 reported at the last annual meeting. 



In recording the completion of the important work noted, it 

 gives me pleasure to acknowledge the efficient service of Mr. 

 Emanuele Fronani, of whose assistance I have again been enabled 

 to avail myself during the summer months. 



The catalogue of the library, may be now said, for the first 

 time in many j^ears, to be complete. Care is, of course, taken 

 to add the titles of accessions immediatel}" on their presentation. 



The portrait of the late Dr. Robert Bridges, which was 

 approaching completion when my last report was presented, has 

 been placed in its proper position in the gallery of Presidents, 

 and is considered an unusually satisfactory likeness. The 

 Academy is indebted for it to Messrs. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., W. S. 

 W. Ruschenberger, Thos. Meehan, Jos. P. Hazard, J. H. Redfield, 

 Jacob Binder, C. S. Bement, Harrison Allen, John Ashhurst, Jr., 

 Edw. S. Whelen, Chas. Schaeffer, Aubrey H. Smith, John S. 

 Haines, Samuel Lewis, Geo. H. Horn, John Welsh, Chas. E. 

 Smith, Jos. Wharton, Isaac Lea, and George Vaux. 



In view of the amount of work accomplished and the results 

 thereof, the past year, in this department of the Academy, may 

 be regarded as an uriusually prosperous one. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 

 22 Librarian. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator- 

 in-charge, Professor Angelo Heilprin, as their report for the 

 year ending November 30 : 



Work in the various departments of the Museum, has during 

 the past year, as in previous years, been largely of a volunteer 

 nature, but, for this reason, none the less systematic, nor less 

 valuable to the Academy. 



The Conchological, Entomological and Botanical departments, 

 under direct control of the Conchological, Entomological and 

 Botanical Sections of the Academy, have benefited almost 

 exclusively from services of this kind, and the same is true of 

 the Mineralogical department covered bj' the Wm. S. Yaux 

 trust. The Academy feels itself under deep obligation to the 

 special conservators who have so generously contributed their 

 time and labor to the interests of the institution. 



In departments other than those here indicated work has not 

 been neglected, but, unfortunately, because of the limited means at 

 the disposal of the Curators, and for general want of space, which 

 together constitute an almost insuperable obstacle to the proper 

 care and exposition of the vast, and still rapidly increasing, 

 collections of the institution, not so much has been accomplished 

 as might have been desired. 



The entire series of alcoholics has been carefully overhauled, 

 and the necessary disposition of alcohol toward the preservation 

 of these perishable objects made. The collection may be said to 

 be in a fairly good condition. The recent mammalia have all 

 been redetermined and relabeled, and arranged according to the 

 most approved S3'stems of classification. In this . department, 

 the Academy is seriously deficient, and it is to be hoped that at 

 no very distant day the numerous gaps that everywhere occur 

 may be filled in. A complete catalogue has been prepared, 

 showing the Academy to possess just 400 species and varieties, 

 represented in all by 904 specimens. 



In the department of Ornithology comparatively little has 

 been accomplished ; the accessions have been very limited, as, 

 indeed, they have been for a number of years past. Although the 

 collection of birds still ranks as one of the most complete, and 

 in some respects, the most complete of any in the world, following 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 331 



immediately after the collections of the British Museum, the 

 National Museum of Vienna, and the University of Leyden, it 

 has of recent years attracted but few students or specialists to 

 its cases, a deplorable condition, doubtless due in great part to 

 imperfect arrangement (incident to the want of a special curator) 

 and the circumstance of the 85,000 or more specimens being 

 mounted, instead of in the far more serviceable form of skins. 

 The absolute necessity of having a specialist, whose services 

 should meet with fit pecuniary compensation, in this, as in all 

 other departments, cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Long 

 neglect of a department means, practically, its collapse, at least 

 so far as the advantages to be derived from it by special students 

 are concerned, and unless it can be adequately supported, must 

 ultimately, by its occupancy of space and the use of time in its 

 preservation, become a drag rather than a spur to the institution 

 of which it forms a part. Despite the general richness of the 

 ornithological collection, it has, through want of adequate means 

 for its support, suffered to such an extent that at the present 

 time it lacks no less than about 170 species or varieties of North 

 American birds alone I 



The Conchological department, on the other hand, which has 

 for two decades enjoyed a constant supervision from the part of 

 a distinguished conchologist, is singularly complete, and both in 

 the number and variety of its forms, stands unsurpassed by any 

 similar collection, whether in this country or Europe. It com- 

 prises no less than 150,000 specimens, mounted on upwards of 

 42,000 tablets, and it alone, of all the various departments, rep- 

 resents the actual state of a zoological science as we now know it. 



During the year a selection of birds from the general collection 

 has been laid aside to complete a special collection illustrative of 

 North American ornithology. 



The work of re-arranging and classifying the geological and 

 paleontological specimens has made considerable progress. 



The " local collection," intended for the illustration of the 

 natural products of the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, 

 is, as far as the resources of the general collection woujd permit, 

 complete, except in the department of entomology, for which no 

 suitable cases have as yet been provided. A cabinet of the 

 minerals belonging to the same geographical area has recently 

 been placed in the Museum for the benefit of students. It is 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



intended to further complete this department by a serial exposi- 

 tion of the rock masses about Philadelphia, and by the prepara- 

 tion of a relief map illustrative of the geology of the city and 

 its immediate surroundings. 



The work of labeling and mounting the Wm. S. Yaux collec- 

 tion of minerals, comprising upwards of 6412 specimens, has 

 been completed ; a report of progress in this department, pre- 

 pared by the special Curator, Mr. Jacob Binder, is herewith 

 appended. 



One of the most striking accessions made to the Museum 

 during the past year, is the collection of insect and aranead archi- 

 tecture, deposited by one of the Yice-Presidents of the Academy, 

 Dr. H. C. McCook. It is, doubtless, the most complete of its 

 kind in this country, and may be considered to be, in many 

 respects, unique. A valuable collection of fishes from the 

 southern and western waters of the TJ. S., made by Prof. D. S. 

 Jordan and Mr. Seth E. Meek, has been added to the Ichthyolo- 

 gical department. 



Various alterations have been made during the current year in 

 the ground floor of the Academy building, but these require no 

 special consideration. Specimens from the Museum have been 

 loaned for study to the Smithsonian Institution, to Prof. James 

 Hall, of Albany, Prof. R. P. Whitfield, of New York, Prof. 

 W. B. Scott, of Princeton, and Mr. Dobson, of London, who 

 have severally rendered service to the Academy by the redeter- 

 mination or description of the forms that passed through their 

 hands. 



The Academy has during the year benefited through the 

 services of five Jessup Fund beneficiaries, who, apart from 

 their studies, have in various ways cooperated with, or assisted, 

 the Curator-in-charge, who hereby acknowledges his thanks. The 

 Curator-in- charge also takes this opportunitj^ of acknowledging 

 his special indebtedness to Mr. Alan F. Gentry, who, during 

 the greater part of the year, has most efficiently acted as his 

 assistant. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Gurator-in-charge A. N. S. 

 Joseph Leidt, 



Chairman Board of Curators. 




1884.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HENSZEY, 

 TREASURER, 



For the Year ending Nov. 30, 1884. 



Cr. 



Salaries, Janitors, etc $3319 93 



Freight 42 70 



Repairs 271 71 



Insurance 55 00 



Coal 551 00 



Printing and Binding Proceedings 838 59 



Mounting Plants 4 40 



Printing and Stationery 114 42 



Vials 6 00 



Plates and Engravings 378 00 



Postage 158 94 



Water Rents 28 35 



Newspaper Reports 70 00 



Gas Ill 92 



Books 276 79 



Miscellaneous 472 38 



A. Heilprin, Receipts Committee of Instruction 64 00 



H. C. Lewis, Receipts, Committee of Instruction 235 00 



Uselma C. Smith, Solicitor, Expenses securing Amend- 

 ment to Charter Acad. Nat. Sciences 25 10 



G. D. Camden, Professional fee, Opinion in regard to 



lands in Tyler Co., W. Va 50 00 



Instruction and Lecture Fund, transferred to this Fund. 150 00 

 Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership 



Fund 500 00 



$7724 33 



Dr. 



To Balance from last account $ 226 59 



" Initiation Fees 290 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual contributions) 1602 48 



•' Life Memberships 500 00 



" Admissions to Museum 368 35 



" Sale of Guide to Museum 30 00 



" Publication Committee 617 92 



".Fees, Lectures on Palaeontology 64 00 



" " " " Mineralogy 235 00 



" Miscellaneous 32 17 



" Interest from Mortgage investment, Joshua T.Jeanes' 



Legacy 1000 00 



" "Wilson Fund. Towards Salary of Librarian 300 00 



" Publication Fund. Interest on Investments 355 00 



" Barton Fund. " " " 240 00 



'' Life Membership Fund." " " 165 00 



" Maintenance Fund. " " " 155 00 



" Eckfeldt Fund. " " " 125 00 



" Stott Legacy Fund. " " " 100 00 



" Interest on Money awaiting Investment 79 28 



6485 79 



Balance overdrawn, General Account $1238 44 




334 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



By Balance per last statement $222 55 



For Books 279 73 



Transferred to General Account, toward Salary of Librarian 3C0 00 



$802 28 

 Income from Investments 525 00 



Balance overdrawn $277 28 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



Balance per last Statement $ 500 00 



Interest on Investments 165 00 



Life Memberships transferred to thisaccount 500 00 



$1165 00 

 Transferred to General Account 165 00 



X 



To Balance for Investment $1000 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Publications. ) 



Interest on Investments $ 240 00 



Transferred to Genei-al Account 240 00 



JESSUP FUND. (For Support of Students.) 



Balance per last Statement $ 595 01 



Interest on Investments 560 00 



$1155 01 

 Disbursed 535 00 



Balance... $620 01 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 8 14 



Interest on Investments 155 00 



Thos. P. Cope, deceased. Legacy 1000 00 



R. G. Curtin, M. D. Subscription... 5' 00 



$1168 14 

 Transferre4 to General Account , 155 00 



To Balance for Investment $1013 14 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



Income from Investments $ 355 00 



Transferred to General Account 355 00 



ECKFELDT FUND. 



Income from Investments $ 125 00 



Transferred to General Account 125 00 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 335 



I. Y. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 770 41 



Rents Collec'ed 1000 00 



Ground-rents Collected 936 53 



Cash received. Principal of yearly ground-rent for 53/0*^ 

 Dollars. E.S. LinjioSt., 170 feet north of Dickinson St. $875 00 



Four Months' Interest on same 17 50 892 55 



$3599 44 



For Books $1116 66 



Taxes and Water-rents 195 51 



Repairs to Properties 95 82 



Collecting = 96 80 



1504 79 



Balance $2094 60 



$875.00 of the above Balance is to be re-invested, 



INSTRUCTION AND LECTURE FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 56 00 



Transferred from General Account 150 00 



6 00 

 Disbursements 63 30 



Balance $142 70 



MUSEUM FUND. 



Interest on Investments $ 50 00 



Disbursements for Minerals, etc 45 00 



Balance $5 00 



VAUX FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $428 84 



Income from Investments 650 00 



Sale of Cabinet 50 00 



$1128 84 



Minerals $272 71 



Cases 222 40 



Book 8 00 



Models 65 00 



Cards 2 75 



Furniture, etc., for Room 80 68 



651 54 



Balance , $477 30 



Mrs. STOTT FUND. 



Income fi'om Investment $100 00 



Transferred to General Account 100 00 



BOOK ACCOUNT. (Jos. Jeanes' Donation). 

 Balance as per last Statement $37 13 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux collections respectfully 

 reports to the Council of the Academy of Natural Sciences : — 



The arrangement and labeling of the minerals are now com- 

 plete, each of the groups having labels indicating the chemical 

 properties, the proportions in which the elements combine, the 

 degree of hardness and specific gravity of each of the species. 

 They are arranged in thirty-six horizontal and five upright cases. 

 One of the upright cases has been made use of for the purpose of 

 illustrating the six systems of crystallography — the forms of 

 crystallization and the structure of crj'stals being demonstrated 

 by typical specimens of minerals belonging to each system, and 

 by six glass models, having the axial lines represented by threads 

 of different color. In this case will also be found minerals repre- 

 senting the relative degrees of hardness. 



The Archgeological collection has been entirely rearranged. 

 All implements, such as axes, celts, chisels, gouges, arrow-heads, 

 pipes, pottery, etc., belonging to the same locality, being 

 placed together. This method was suggested by Professor 

 Putnam, o"f Cambridge, and Professor Brinton, of our own 

 Academy, and is thought to have advantages for ethnological 

 study. By this method the McBride collection (which is con- 

 sidered of undoubted authenticity), has been placed in the Ohio 

 group. 



The localities represented are Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, 

 Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Connecti- 

 cut, Maine, Virginia, North and South Carolina, Geoi'gia, Florida, 

 Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Texas, Missouri, Wisconsin, 

 California, and the Pacific Coast, together with Mexico, Costa 

 Rica, Peru, Switzerland, Denmark and Sweden. There are also 

 a few Roman,, Carthagenian and Egyptian specimens. They 

 number in all 2940 pieces. 



An alphabetical catalogue of the mineral collection has been 

 made, indicating the page and number in Dana, and the case con- 

 taining the particular specimen. 



In m}'^ report of November, 1883, the number of minerals was 

 counted by trays, notwithstanding many of them contained more 

 than one specimen. I am informed that this is not the practice 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33Y 



in other museums, either in this country or in Europe, nor does 

 this method do justice to the collection. The same may be said 

 with regard to the Archaeological part. 



The present method is based on the actual number of speci- 

 mens, without regard to the number of trays, and is as follows : — 

 Mineral specimens, .... 6,391 



Crystallographic models, .... 6 



Models of historical diamonds, . . 15 



6,412 



representing about 500 species. 



It may be of interest to members of the Academj'- to know the 

 whole number of minerals contained in the Museum of the 

 Academy (though not strictly in the line of this report) ; with the 

 assistance of Mr. W. W. Jefferis, the specimens were counted as 

 follows : — 



Mineral specimens, Academy proper, . . 9,633 

 Lithological specimens, Academy proper, . . 1,301 



Total, • . 10,934 



W. S. Vaux collection, . . . . . 6,412 



Total, 17,346 



It will be remembered that, according to terms of the agreement 

 upon which this collection was accepted by the Academy, all 

 specimens purchased from the fund provided for increase, were 

 subject to the approval of the Curators of the Academy in con- 

 junction with the Curator of the collection. 



In making purchases, such specimens only have been bought — 



1. As represent new species. 



2. Species not represented in the collection. 



3. Species representing new localities. 



4. Such as are superior in character to those already in the 

 collection. 



Sixty specimens have been purchased during the year 1884, as 

 follows : — 



Minerals, 32 



Indian relics, 1 



Crystallographic models, ... 6 



Historical diamond models, , . .15 

 The collection has been visited by a large number of persons 

 during the past year, many of them professional mineralogists, 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



especially during the recent meeting of the American and British 

 Association for the Advancement of Science. I have been much 

 gratified to hear expressions of admiration of the collection, 

 many of the specimens being pronounced unique in their charac- 

 ter, and not represented in the museums of Europe. 



In conclusion, I embrace the opportunity of thanking those of 

 my friends who have expressed a warm interest in my work, and 

 have aided me with valuable suggestions. I take the liberty 

 of making special mention of Dr. Leidy, Mr. W. W. Jefferis, 

 Clarence S. Bement, and Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Yery respectfully submitted, 



Jacob Binder, 



Curator. 



REPORT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL AND BIOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



During the past year, eighteen stated meetings and one public 

 exhibition were held. 



The average attendance of members was about fifteen. 



At the exhibition given in September to the visiting members 

 of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a 

 very large audience was present, and the display of microscopes 

 and objects excelled all previous ones, both in number and in 

 scientific importance. 



During the year. Dr. N. A. Randolph, Dr. Benjamin Sharp, 

 and Joseph Mellor were elected members. 



Edward S. Campbell, Hugo Bilgrim, and Sara Gwendolen 

 Poulke were announced as contributors. , 



Dr. J. H. Simes and Prof. H. C. Lewis resigned membership. 



Dr. Robert E. Rogers died. 



Among the more important contributions b}' members during 

 the year, were : — 



A lecture, December IT, 1883, by Dr. M. B. Hartzell. Subject 

 — The Bacteria. 



February 4, 1884, by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Subject — Section 

 Cutting. 



March 11, by Mr. W. N. Lockington. Subject— The Fishes of 

 North America and the West Coast. 



April 21, by Dr. Sharp. Subject— The Eye of the Inverte- 

 brates. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 339 



May 5, by Dr. J. G. Hunt. Subject — Fertilization in Some 

 Plants. 



May 9, by Dr. Hunt. Subject— The Bioplasm of the Cell. 

 June 2, by Dr. Geo. A. Rex. Subject — The Myxomycetes of 

 Fairmount Park. 



Respectfully submitted, 



RoBT. J. Hess, M.D., 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during the past year, the Academy has, as heretofore, con- 

 tinued to publish such papers upon the subject of the Mollusca 

 as have been approved by its Publication Committee. 



One member and seven correspondents have been elected. 

 We have no deaths to report ; neither has there been any change 

 made in the By-Laws governing the Section. 



From the eighteenth annual report of Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 

 Conservator, we find that during the year ending December 1, 

 1884, sixty donations of mollusks and shells have been received 

 from thirty-one persons. The number of trays and labels thus 

 added to the collection is 1126, of specimens 5224 ; larger acces- 

 sions in both cases than for several previous years. The 

 Conchological Museum now contains 42,448 trays and written 

 tablets, with 151,015 specimens. 



The most important accession of the year is a remarkably fine 

 suite of shells, collected last winter by Mr. Henrj' Hemphill, on 

 the West Coast of Florida. Most of the specimens are in much 

 finer condition than those previously in our Museum, from the 

 same region ; manj'^ of them, hitherto known as West Indian, 

 are now first ascertained to inhabit our coast, and not a few are 

 new species. During the last summer, at the instance of Mr 

 Wm. G. Binney, Mr. Hemphill explored the mountains of North 

 Carolina for Helices, collecting a number of rare and fine specimens, 

 of which, by Mr. Binney's generosity, we have obtained a share. 

 This winter Mr. Hemphill is again spending on the Florida 

 Coast, southward of his last year's operations, and arrangements 

 have been made by which we shall receive a series of his 

 collections. 



A very complete suite of the shells of our national capital 

 were presented by Mr. F. Lehnert. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Three donations of foreign shells are of unusual interest, 

 namely : From E. Marie, a series of the shells of the island of 

 Guadeloupe, W. I. ; from Andrew Garrett, eightj'-four species of 

 land shells of the Society Islands, including all the types figured 

 in his paper on this molluscan province, recently published by 

 the Academy ; from Dr. S. Archer and the Conchological Section, 

 over three hundred species of marine shells, collected by Dr. 

 Archer at Singapore. Another box, just received from Dr. 

 Archer (contents not yet presented), will bring up our repre- 

 sentation of the Singapore mollusks to upwards of five hundred 

 species. 



A detailed list of the additions to the Museum accompanies 

 this report (see Curator's report). 



The re-arrangement of the Conchological Museum steadily 

 progresses. During the year, the Pleurotomidse, Terebridae and 

 Cancellariidse of the marine gastropods have been carefully 

 studied, and, to a considerable extent, re-labeled and mounted. 

 A commencement has also been made with the series of Pul- 

 monata, by the re-arrangement of the Testacellidse, Oleacinidae 

 and Streptaxidse. 



Our Museum cases have become so overcrowded that the dis- 

 play of all the species, under glass, is no longer possible ; in 

 many instances, the trays of specimens are piled up several tiers 

 in height, so that the under rows cannot be seen. Unless better 

 and more ample accommodation for the shell collection is soon 

 provided, it may become necessary to withdraw portions of it 

 from exhibition, in order to afford space for the display of the 

 larger and more important specimens. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held on the 4th inst., 

 the following officers were elected : — 



Director^ . . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Vice-Director, . . . John Ford. 

 Recorder, . . . . S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Secretary, .... John H. Redfield. 

 Treasurer, .... Wm. L. Mactier. 

 Conservator, .... George W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Librarian, .... Edward J. Nolan. 

 Respectfully submitted, on behalf of the Section, 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Becorder. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the j^ear 1884, the Entomological Section has held 

 its regular monthly meetings, dispensing as usual with those 

 of July and August. The attendance has been fair, but by no 

 means so large as is desirable. It was found that several 

 members had been prevented from attending the Section, 

 owing to other engagements. To remedy this, and with a hope 

 that the change would be beneficial, by accommodating more 

 persons, the Section, at its meeting held December 8, voted to 

 change the time of meeting from the second Friday night to the 

 fourth Monday night of each month, commencing January, 1885. 

 The failure to secure additions to the membership has been very 

 discouraging to the members of the Section, and it is earnestly 

 hoped that the members of the Academy will assist in increasing 

 the number. 



The collections under the supervision of the Section, are at 

 present in quite good condition. Much work has been done in 

 the way of disinfecting and arranging the specimens. In an ento- 

 mological cabinet this requires constant watchfulness, and cannot 

 be dispensed with. The thanks of the Section are due to Mr. S. 

 F. Aaron for much of this work. 



Additions to the collection during the past year have been 

 quite small. This has been principally owing to the fact, that 

 those members generally most active in collecting, have been 

 compelled by other more pressing calls, to defer such work to 

 the future. 



In connection with the American Entomological Society, there 

 have been published, during the year, articles upon Entomology, 

 amounting to 335 pages of printed matter, together with 9 plates. 

 In addition, there has been printed a biographical sketch of John 

 L. Le Conte, M. D., late Director of the Section, written by S. H. 

 Scudder, also posthumous papers of the same gentleman, edited 

 by Dr. Geo. H. Horn, comprising in all 68 pages, making a total of 

 403 printed pages. These entomological contributions continue 

 to maintain the high standard of the journal in which they 

 appear. 



At the meeting held December 8, the following were elected 

 officers of the Section for the year 1885 : — 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



. Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 

 , Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 

 . James H. Ridings. 

 . E. T. Cresson. 

 . Henry Skinner, M. D. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



James H, Ridings, 



Becorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section has to report to 

 the Academy that the affairs of the Section are in a generally 

 prosperous condition. 



Our Herbarium, already one of which the Academy is justly 

 proud, has been increased in new species 407 the past year, with- 

 out including the additions among the lower cryptogams. The 

 excellent progress made in other matters, under the superinten- 

 dence of the Conservator, Mr. John H. Redfield, is set forth in 

 detail in his annual report to the Section, which is submitted 

 herewith as part of the Section's report. 



Meetings have been held regularly every month, except July 

 and August, the average attendance for the whole year being 

 slightly larger than last. 



The Section is free from debt, and has a considerable balance 

 in its treasury. 



One of the events of the year was the social re-union and enter- 

 tainment, in the hall of the Academy, of the botanists in attend- 

 ance on the meeting of the American Association for the 

 Advancement of Science, under the auspices of the Section. The 

 expense was borne by the mem-bers of the Section, without any 

 draft on its regular funds, or on the funds of the Local Committee 

 of the Association. It is believed that the result will be useful 

 to the Academy, in making the work of the botanical department 

 better known, reacting in the interest of botany everywhere. 



At the meetings of the Section many matters of interest to 

 botanists have been presented, and some, by Professor Gray, 

 Professor Rothrock, and Messrs. Meehan and Scribner, deemed 

 of sufficient general importance to appear in the Proceedings of 

 the Academy. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



The officei's elected for the ensuing year are : — 



Director, . . . Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director, . . Thomas Meehan. 



Recorder, . . . F. Lamson Scribner. 



Cor. Secretary,-) ^ j^^^^ ^ Martindale. 



Treasurer, ) 



Conservator, . . . John H. Redfield. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator'' s Report for 188^. — The Conservator has, during 

 the past year, continued to direct his attention to the care and 

 improvement of the Academy's Herbarium, so far as was com- 

 patible with the demands on his time and labor occasioned by 

 receiving, preparing and placing new accessions. With some 

 assistance from Mr. Scribner, certain portions of the North 

 American Herbarium have been mounted, mainly of genera more 

 especially needing this care, such as Viola, Polygala, Lupinus, 

 Dalea, Astragalus, Oxytropis, Potentilla, Eriogonum, and others. 

 Mr. Burk is now engaged in the work of re-arranging the North 

 American Compositse after Gray's New Synoptical Flora. In the 

 General Herbarium the provisional alphabetical lists of species 

 have been carried forward as far as Loranthaceas. These lists, 

 imperfect and defective as they are, will justify the labor expended 

 upon them, by the time saved to every one consulting the Her- 

 barium. It is hoped that this merely preliminary work will soon 

 be completed, and prepare the way for more deliberate and careful 

 elaboration by expert botanists. 



During the latter part of the summer our work had to be tem- 

 porarily suspended by the necessary preparations for receiving 

 the members of the American Association for the Advancement 

 of Science at its September meeting in this city, and the gratifi- 

 cation expressed by them on the visits to the Academy's library 

 and herbarium, for the fraternal fellowship extended by our 

 Section, is a source of satisfaction to us all. 



The donations of plants during the past year amount to 3183 

 species, of which 407 are new to our collection. In these dona- 

 tions are included three Centuries of Ellis' North American 

 Fungi, of which a large proportion are probably new to us, and 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



should be added to the above 40*7. The North American species 

 received have been 1792, from tropical America were 3, and from 

 the old world 1388. Among the additions may be specified 1057 

 species, mostly European and North African, from the fine 

 Herbarium of Geo. Curling Joad, presented by Dr. Gray. Though 

 the most of these duplicated species which we already possessed, 

 yet being choice specimens, collected and ticketed by eminent 

 botanists, they greatly add to the value of our working material, 

 while about one-tenth of them were previously unrepresented on 

 our shelves. Our fellow-member, Mr, Canby, who, it will be 

 remembered, was in charge of the Botanical Department of the 

 Northern Transcontinental Survey, during the years 1882 and 

 1883, in the interest of the Northern Pacific R. R., has contributed 

 a very valuable suite of the collections made by himself, and by 

 Scribner, Brandegee, Tweedy and others under his direction, along 

 the northern border of Western North America, in the Territories 

 of Dakota, Montana and Washington. This series comprehends 

 851 distinct species of which about 90 were new to us. Our Vice- 

 Director, Mr. Meehan,has also given us the result of his herbori- 

 zations along the coast of Washington and Alaska Territories, 

 during the summer of 1883, in a collection of 207 species, which, 

 however add only five species to our earlier Alaskan collections 

 received from Kellogg, Harrington, Dall, and others. Other 

 smaller but valuable donations, will be detailed in the Academy's 

 Donation List for 1 884. 



In large collections, where constant accessions, during a long 

 period of years, have repeatedly duplicated species, there is 

 always a tendency to exaggerated estimates of the number of 

 species represented. In regard to the Academy's Herbarium, the 

 estimates have been so vague and so evidentl}' excessive, that the 

 Conservator has been led to undertake an actual enumeration. 

 This apparently simple task is really attended with many diflB- 

 culties, one of which, consists in the varying views of botanists 

 as to the specific validity of forms. In some families this 

 diversity of opinion is so great as to materially affect total 

 results. In such cases, the Conservator has endeavored to 

 follow the authority of the latest leading specialists. Another 

 difficulty arises from the large amount of un worked and unnamed 

 material, which has accumulated since the early days of the 

 Academy, some of it probably duplicating the named species. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 345 



The enumeration is not yet complete, but, as it covers about 

 three-fourths of the collection, a tolerably fair estimate may 

 be made of the remainder, on the basis of space occupied. 

 The conclusion is that the phanerogamic species will not exceed 

 24,000. To these we must add the ferns — 1018, by count - and the 

 remaining vascular crygtogams, estimated at 120 species, and 

 we have a total of phanerogams and vascular cryptogams of 

 a little more than 25,000 species. Of the extent of the collection 

 of lower cryptogams, embracing mosses, liverworts, lichens, 

 algae and fungi, the Conservator is at present unable to give any 

 estimate. 



Respectfully submitted, 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEO- 

 LOGICAL SECTION. 



The meetings of the Section have been held regularly during 

 the year, but the attendance has not been as large as formerly. 

 There have been, however, satisfactory" additions to the collec- 

 tions of minerals and rocks, in part by purchases made with the 

 funds of the Section. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INYERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully 

 reports, that during the year he has delivered a course of lectures 

 on paleontology and physiography, which course, as in previous 

 years, was attended in principal part by teachers from the various 

 schools of the city. A special course of lectures on geology, 

 arranged by request of the Teachers' Institute of Philadelphia, was 

 delivered before the members of that body, with an attendance 

 ranging from one to two hundred. Six field excursions, em- 

 28 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



bracing points of interest in tlie neigliborhood of the cit}^, and 

 extending to the terminal moraine, on the line of the Delaware 

 and Lackawanna Railroad in New Jersey, and the " mountain 

 colonnades " of Orange, were participated in by a fair proportion 

 of the class. 



The condition of the collections of the Academy in the depart- 

 ment of paleontology has been materially improved during the 

 year, a complete re-arrangement of the fossils of this country < 

 having been effected. The work of identifying and labeling has 

 made considerable progress, and it is hoped that in a short time 

 proper attention may be given to the rich collections illustrating 

 European paleontology as well. 



The additions during the year, which are recorded elsewhere, 

 have been neither very numerous nor important. A fine series 

 of Oligocene fossils from Germany, comprising nearl}^ 200 

 species, has been obtained from Dr. Otto Meyer, in exchange for 

 American Tertiary forms. The Academy is also indebted to Mr. 

 Joseph Willcox for an extensive series of the Nummulitic rock 



of Florida. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 ProfesHor of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY. 



The Professor of Mineralogy respectfully reports that during 

 the spring months of 1884, he delivered a course of twenty lec- 

 tures upon the Geology and Mineralogy of Eastern Pennsylvania. 

 The alternate lectures were given in the open air, and consisted 

 of studies in the field at localities of geological and mineralogical 

 interest in the vicinity of Philadelphia. At the close of the 

 course a more extended excursion was taken to Mauch Chunk, 

 Hazleton, and Drifton, where, through the kindness of friends, 

 unusual facilities were offered for studying the geological struc- 

 ture and the methods of mining anthracite coal. A description 

 of the "field lectures," as reported in a daily newspaper, is here- 

 with presented. The average attendance was nearly forty per- 

 sons, of whom more than one-half were ladies. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 34Y 



The mineralogical collection of the Academy, as shown in the 

 accompanying Curator's report, has received a number of valuable 

 additions. The placing of the minerals of Pennsylvania in a 

 special case will, it is believed, not only be a convenience to 

 visitors, but, as it becomes more complete, will stimulate a search 

 for new mineral localities. The mineralogists of the State are 

 particularly asked to contribute to this local collection. 



As in previous annual reports, attention is again called to the 

 need, in this department, of scientific apparatus, both for the pur- 

 poses of teaching and for the prosecution of original research. A 

 lithological microscope, a reflecting goniometer, and a Groth's 

 universal apparatus for polarized light, are among the instru- 

 ments most urgently needed. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. Carvill Lewis, 



Professor of Mineralogy . 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that 

 during the past year, since March, when he was placed in office, 

 he has delivered his inaugural address on " The Study of Biology 

 in Germany " (March 10), and six lectures on " Elementary His- 

 tology," with demonstrations. 



He further reports that the collections under his charge have 

 greatly increased, especially by the addition of a superb collection 

 of marine sponges from the western coast of Florida, presented by 

 Mr. Joseph Willcox. The collection was described by Henry J. 

 Carter in the Proceedings. 



A course of some twenty lectures is intended to be given in 

 the early part of the coming year (January, February and March), 

 the subject being " Some of the Principles of Zoology." 



Very respectfully, 



Benjamin Sharp, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHEOLOGY. 



A short course of lectures on some points in general ethnology 

 was delivered by me, immediately after my appointment as 

 professor in April last. The subjects were : — 



Prehistoric Man in America. 



The Origin of the Arj'^an Nations. 



The Progress of American Linguistics. 



The Civilization of Ancient Mexico and Peru. 



These lectures were public and were reasonably well attended. 



After the organization of the Bureau of Scientific Information 

 had been established, I forwarded a circular to a considerable 

 number of persons interested in my branch, in different parts of 

 the United States, announcing both the professorship and the 

 Bureau, and asking them to favor the Academy with such speci- 

 mens and information as would be of advantage to instruction 

 in this department. A number of promises to do so have been 

 received. 



There has been but small increase in the collections in my 

 department since I took charge of it. The arrangement of the 

 cabinet leaves much to be desired, but I see no remedy for this, 

 unless considerably more space were at my disposal, and I am 

 well aware that the Academy is unable at present to supply this. 

 I can obtain " for deposit " with the Academy, several very fine 

 local collections of antiquities, were suflEicient space for their 

 proper display, and the usual guarantees of conservation, offered 

 their owners. 



Very respectfully, 



D. G. Brinton, M. D., 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology. 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



349 



The election of OflScers for 1885 was held, with the following 

 result : — 



President^ 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, .... 



Finance Committee, 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



George H. Horn, M. D. 



Wm. C. Henszey. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Chas. P. Perot, 

 J. H. Redfleld, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 Charles Morris. 

 Isaac C. Martindale, 

 Clarence S. Bement, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 George Y. Shoemaker. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1884. 



MEMBERS. 



January 29. — John Struthers, Thomas M. Fenton, M. D., H. 

 W. Stelwagen, M.D., D. G. Brinton,M. D., Miss Helen C, D. Abbott, 

 William Thomson, M. D., Rev. Wayland Hoyt, D. D., Benj. R. 

 Smith. 



February 26. — Eugene W. Fiss, Francis E. Emery. 



March ^5.— Albert S. Bolles, Ph. D., R. W. Fitzell, Joseph W. 

 Griscom. 



April 29. — J. L. Forwood, M. D., Lewis Woolman, John 

 Eyerman, Edward Jackson, M. D., Miss S. D. Atkinson, E. J. 

 Wheelock. 



May 27. — Henry N. Rittenhouse. 



June 24. — Lieut. Thos. L. Casey, U. S. A. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



August ^5.— Ralph W. Seiss, M. D., Edw. P. Bliss. 



September 30. — Miss Adele M. Fielde, Heniy F. Osborn, John 

 Wanamaker. 



October 28. — H. La Barre Jayne, Edmund J. James, Ph. D., 

 W. B. Scott, George Pales Baker. 



November 25. — W. Henry Grant, Rufus Sargent, M. D. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 29. — Karl A. Zittel, of Munich ; August Daubr^e, of 

 Paris ; Marquis de Gaston de Saporta, of Aix ; Quintino Sella, 

 of Rome ; Albert Gaudry, of Paris. 



March 25. — Ludwig von Graff, of Aschaffenburg ; E. Renevier, 

 of Lausanne ; G. Dewalque, of Liege ; Hans Bruno Geinitz, of 

 Dresden ; Henry N. Moseley , of Oxford ; J. T. Burdon Sanderson, 

 M. D., of London. 



April 29. — Ernest Andre, of Gray, Haute Saone. 



October 28. — G. Yom Rath, of Bonn ; George E. Dobson, of 

 London. 



November 25. — John Ball, of London ; Wm. Carruthers, of 

 London; Rud. Leuckart, of Leipzig; Anton Dohrn, of Naples; 

 H. Grenacher, of Halle i. S. ; Alex. Gotte, of Rostock i. M. ; 

 Ludwig Will, of Rostock i. M. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



Archeology, Antiquities. Implements, etc. — Joseph Leidy. Frag- 

 ment of Druid stone. Avebury, Eng. 

 Stuart Wood. Contents of an Indian shell-heap, Indian River, Fla. 

 Miss A M. Fielde. Earrings of native work, Laos. 

 H. Beates. Aboriginal urn, C'earfield Co., Pa. 

 J. Willcox. Indian implements, Hernando Co., Fla. 

 Marquis de Nadaillac. Paleoliths, Ras-el Oued, Tunis, Africa. 



Mammaiia (recent and fossil).— W. P. Buck. Double-headed foetal pig 



{Sus scrofa). 



Phil. Zool. Society. Macrorhinvs angustirostris (skull). Coast of Cali- 

 fornia ; Cercopithecus alhogularis, Africa. 



J. B. Betts. Condylura cristata, New Castle, Del. 



Mr. Kochusperger. 8 mammalian skulls ; antlers of Cariacus Virgini- 

 anus; horns of Rupicapra tragus, Tamias striutus, Scalops aquaUcua; 

 skull of Cariacm Virginianus, Ovis aries (2) ; horns of Bos bubalus, 

 and Ovis aries ; human skull. 



Birds. —Stuart Wood. Skeleton and eggs of Pelecanus fuscus, from 

 Florida; skeleton of Colymbus torquatus ; Tachypetes aquila. 



Mr. Kochusperger. 39 bird skulls, Corvus Americanus, Melanerpes erythro- 

 cephalus, Porzana Carolina, and 12 birds' nests. 



G. Cochran. Didunculus strigirostris, Samoa. 



H. England. Embryo pigeon showing five toes. 



J. Fold. Nest of Vireo olivaceus, Phila., Pa. 



Reptiles and Amphibians (recent and fossil). — Capt. Livermore. 20 



species of amphibians and reptiles from the valley of the RiO Grande. 

 Harrison Allen. Anolis principalis, Fla. 

 E. Reiff. Eutmnia sirtalis, Phila., Pa. 

 E. A. Sturge. Lygosoma brachypoda, Petchaburi, Siam. 

 J. Border. Vertebrse of Mosasaurus and crocodile ; tooth of Hyposaurus, 



and fragments of turtle bones, Mullica Hill, N. J. 

 A. F. Gentry. Eutcenia sirtalis, Ophibolus doUatus, Aromochelys odoraius, 



Rana clamitans, Rana palustris, Phila., Pa. 

 Wortman and Gentry. Eutmnia sirtalis, Storeria Dekayi, and Spelerpes 



ruber, Phila., Pa. 

 J. Hazard. Liopeltis vernalis, Peacedale, R. I. 

 E. W. White. Ceratophrys ornata, pampas of Buenos Ayres, S. A. 

 H. Skinner. Diemyctilus miniatus, Diemyctilus viridescens, Adirondack 



and Catskill Mountains, N. Y. 

 Unknown. Phrynosoma platyrhina and Phriinosoma Douglassi, Humboldt 



River, Nev. ; Phrynosoma Douglassi, locality unknown. 



Fishes (recent and fossil). — E. F. Halliwell. Diodon hystrix, Barbadoes. 



Halocypselus evolans. 

 J. Jean *. Xiphotrygon aeutidens. Eocene of Green River, Wyoming. 



A. F. Gentry. Pomotis aureus, Rhinichthys atronasus , Boleosoma Olmstedi, 

 Phila , Pa. 



Wortman and Gentry. Prionotis lineatus, Coast of N. J. 

 N. S. Schuyler. Lagocephalus Icevigatus, Barneizat Bay, N. J. 

 J. Ford. Siphostoma fusca, Somers' Point, N. J. 

 Prof. Porter. Fish, sp. ? Warren Co., N. J. 



Mr. Kochusperger. Hippocampus Hudsonius, Pristis antiquorum, Sphyrena 

 zygana, Siphostoma fusca. 



B. Sharp. Amphioxus lanceolatus, Bay of Naples, Italy. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Articulates (Crustaceans, insects, arachnids, and myriapods, recent and 



fossil). — Joseph Leidy. Eiipagurus pollicaris, Atlantic City, N. J.; 



Eupagurus polUcaris in Natica and Fhtlgur, Atlantic City, N. J.; Libinia 



canaliculata, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 J. Ford. Ocypoda arenaria, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 H. Skinner. Cocoons of Actios Luna, Callosamia angulifera, and Platysa- 



niia Columbia ; chrysalids of Papilio Turnus, Papilio troilus, Papilio 



asterias, and Saiurnia lo, Phila., Pa. 

 H. C. Brick. Belostoma grandis, Phila., Pa. 



W. Y. Heberton. Limulus polyphemus (3), Cape May Point, N. J. 

 Mr. Beck. Trap of Tarantula. 

 H. Kingsbury. Case of insects, Blair Co., Pa. 

 Purchased. Casts of Asaphus megistos (Trilobite), showing impression of 



legs. 



MoLLUSCA (recent). — S. F. Aaron. Five species of land shells from Texas. 



Rafael Arango. Fifteen species of land, fresh-water and marine shells 

 from Cuba, New Guinea and New Hebrides ; five marine species from 

 Cviba ; four species from Cuba (types of descriptions). 



8. Archer. One hundred and twenty-five species of marine shells col- 

 lected by him at Singapore. 



W. G. Binney. Six species terrestrial shells from N. Carolina, and five 

 species from Georgia ; seventeen species from the mountains of Western 

 N. Carolina. 



Mrs. A. E. Bush. Helix ramentosa, Gould, and R. pulehella, Miill. (intro- 

 duced), from California. 



Conchological Section. Sixty-six marine species collected at Singapore by 

 Dr. S. Archer ; three hundred and five trays of marine, land and fresh- 

 water shells from Florida, Texas, etc., collected by Henry Hemphill ; 

 one hundred and twenty-five species marine shells from Singapore ; ten 

 species of land and fresh water shells (from C. F. Ancey, Marseilles). 



John Ford. Littorina irrorata, Say, South Atlantic City, N. J.; egg cases 

 of Fulgur carica and F. canaliculata, Brigantine Beach, N. J. ; Solen ensis, 

 L., Cape May, N. J.; Cytherea convexa, Say, Atlantic City, N. J.; Donax 

 fossor, Say, and Petricola pholadiformis, Lam.; Bulimus, from Syria, 

 Cingula minuta, Totten, Providence, R. I. ; Mactra soUdissima, Chemn., 

 young, So. Atlantic City, N. J.; Oemma Manhattensis, Prime, Narra- 

 gansett Bay, R. I. ; egg cases of Nassa, and Petricola pholadiformis. Lam., 

 Sea Isle City, N. J.; Solen ensis, L., with animals, and nidus of Natica 

 dupUcata, Say, Somers' Point, N. J. ; fine specimen of Turbinella scoly- 

 mus, Bahamas; Natica dupUcata, Say, Atlantic City, N. J.; Fulgur 

 canaliculata, Say, Anglesea, N. J.; Mactra soUdissima, Chemn., and 

 ZirphcBO crispata, L., from same locality; Area pexata and Natica 

 dupUcata ; egg cases of Fulgur canaliculata, attached to valve of Mactra; 

 all from Anglesea. 



Isaiah Greegor. Seven marine species from the Bahamas ; Bulima inter- 

 media, Cantr., Florida ; Nerita peleronta, L. Bahamas. Three marine 

 species from Florida, and two species from the Bahamas. 



Andrew Garrett. Eighty-four species of Terrestrial Mollusca, types 

 figured in his paper on the Shells of the Society Islands, published in 

 the Journal of the Academy, vol. ix. 



W. D. Hartman. Achatinella Sowerbyana, and two other species of 

 Achatinella. 



F. L. Harvey. Seven species of fresh-water shells, Arkansas. 



Henry Hemphill. Six species of Pleurotomidae. from Florida. 



Benton Holcomb. Seven species fresh-water shells, Connecticut. 



J. A. Holmes. Marginella roseida, Redfield, from an Indian burial mound, 

 N. Carolina. 



Jos. Leidy. Columbella lunata, Say, Atlantic City, N. J. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 35.3 



E. Lehnert. One hundred and twelve trays, shells of Washington, D. C. 



E. Marie. Forty five species of shells from Guadeloupe, W. I. 

 Isaac Massey. Banella jmlchra, .Japan. 



"Wesley Newcomb. Bythinella Monroensis, Fraunfeld, Florida Springs, 

 Florida. 



C. R. Orcutt. Thirty-four species, California ; three marine species. Lower 

 California. 



G. H. Parker. Ommastrephes sagtttatus, N. Jersey ; ten marine species, 

 vicinity of Boston, Mass. 



W. H. Hush. Wood bored by Xylotrya fimbriata, from Chesapeake Bay. 



A. W, Robinson. Helix bucculenta, Gould, Norfolk, Va. 



Mi"s. Benj. Sharp. My a arenaria, Linn., Nantucket, Mass. 



Benj. Sharp. Mercenaria violacea, Schum., Nantucket; eleven marine 

 species from the Mediterranean Sea ; Limax agrestis, Linn., German- 

 town, Pa. 



U. C. Smith. Unio complanatus, Solander, from branch of Maurice River, 

 near Vineland, N. J. 



F. E. Spinner. Murex adustus, Linn., from Bahamas ; four species of 

 Unionidse, from New Hampshire. 



L. H. Streng. CeritMum ocellatum, Brug., Panama; Planorhis Mcarinatus, 



Say, Salem, Oregon ; two species fresh-water shells from Michigan, 

 Southwick and Jenks, Gingula minuta, Totten, Naragansett Bay, R. L 

 Joseph Willcox. Three marine species, and nidimental capsules of Faa- 



ciolaria, Ostrea parasitica, on mangrove branch, all from W. Coast of 



Florida. 

 H. C. Wood, Jr. Bulimus alternaius, Say, Valley of the Rio Grande, 



Texas ; Ommastrephes sagittatus. 



MoLLUscA f fossil). —E. W. Cooper. Belemnitella mucronata, Cretaceous, 



N. J. 

 C. S. Bement. CeritJiium giganieum, Fleury, France. 

 J. Border. Cast of Area, Mullica Hill, N. J. 



J. lieidy. Ostrea Virginica, Buccinum undatum, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 J. Ford. Pecteii irradians, Fulgur cariea, Fulgur canaliculata, Crepidula 



fornicata. 

 In exchange with Dr. Otto Meyer. 170 species of Oligoeene shells, from 



Germany. 



Worms, Echinoderms, Ccelenterates and Sponges (recent and fossil). 



— J. Ford. Caudina arenaria, Atlantic City, N.J. ; Mellita testudinata, 



Holly Head City. N. J. ; Sponge, Somers' Point, N. J. ; Lepas anser- 



ifera, Atlantic City, N. J. ; Tuhularia indivisa and Annelid, Sea Isle 



City. 

 J. Leidy. Astrangia Darice, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 E. Potts. 13 species of American fresh-water sponges, Philadelphia, Pa. ; 



Meyenia Leidyi, Philadelphia, Pa. 

 C. Wistar. Serpula dianthus, Barnegat, N. J. 

 J. Willcox. Six specimens of Marine Sponges, West Coast of Florida ; 



70 trays, containing about 50 (?) species of Marine Sponges, W. Coast 



of Florida. 

 L. Woolman. Scolithus linearis, Valley Forge, Pa. 



G. H. Parker. Botryllus Oouldii, Molgula Manhattensis, Dactyloinetra 

 quinquecirra, Shark River, N. J. 



Lieut. Ruschenberger. Sponge, Long Island. 



A. H. Smith. Pentremites pynformis, Mammoth Cave, Ky. 



Invertebrate Fossils, Unclassified.— G. H. Parker. 26 species of 

 Cretaceous and Carboniferous fossils, from Texas ; 10 species of Car- 

 boniferous fossils, Wise Co., Texas. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



G. W. Holstein. 8 species of Cretaceous and Carboniferous fossils, from 



Texas. 

 J. Willcox. 15 trays of Oligocene rocks and fossils, West Coast of Fla» 

 T. H. Aldrich. 21 species of Tertiary fossils, from Mississippi. 

 W. Spillmau. 4 species of Eocene fossils and 2 species of Cretaceous 



fossils, from Mississippi. 



Botany (recent).— Wm. M. Canby, in charge of Division of Economic 

 Botany of Northern Transcontinental Survey. 1013 species of plants, 

 collected in 1883, in Dakota, Montana and Washington Territories by 

 himself, and by F. L. Sciibner, T. S. Brandegee and Frank Tveeedy ; 6 

 species collt-cted in Maryland and Florida, by J. Donnell Smith. 



A. L. Siler, Kane Co., Utah, through Thomas Meehan. 41 species plants, 

 from Southern Utah. 



Wm. H. Jeffries, West Chester, Pa. Specimens of Oentiana campestriSf 

 from vicinity of Geneva, Switzerland. 



John H. Redfield. 130 species plants, from Atlantic and Pacific States, 

 mostly new to Academy's Herbarium ; specimens of Corema Conradii 

 Torr., from the chief known localities of the United States. 



John H. Redfield and Isaac C. Marrindale. 9 species plaints collected by 

 C. R. Orentt, on border of Lower California, in 1888, mostly new to the 

 Herbarium. 



Isaac C. Martindale. Ellis' 11th, 12th and 13th Centuries of North 

 American Fungi ; "Tuckahoe," or "Indian Bread," collected at Kirk- 

 wood, N. J., by Joel P. Kirkbride. 



Thos. Meehan. Sesbania punicea B. and H., cultivated in Southern States; 

 Cuscuta racemosa Mart., var. Chiliana Engelm., growing on Lucerne, in 

 California, with European specimens of same, both received from Dr. 

 Engelmann ; 207 species of plants collected by him in British Columbia 



and Alaska, in 1883 ; Aphelandra , from Western Guatemabi ; 16 



species plants, collect* d in Arizona, by J. G. Lemmon ; Male Strobilus 



of Macrozamia , an Australian Cycad ; Specimens of Halesia tetra- 



ptera L., from Mr. Meehan's garden, with specimens of an aberrant 

 seedling from same plant, to illustrate remarks of Mr. Meehan in Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., for 1884, p. 32. 



John W. Eckfeldt. 100 species Lichens, mostly from Pennsylvani, 

 mounted and named by himself; 132 species Licheus, from Hawaiian 

 Islands, England, Austria, Sweden, etc, mostly new to Academy's 

 collection. 



Asa Gray. 39 species Arctic plants, collected by Dr. John Murdock, at 

 Signal Service Station, Ooglamie, Pt. Banow, Arctic Sea, lat. 71° ; 19 

 species plants, collected at Copper I., and Behring's Island, Coast of 

 Kamtschatka, by L. Stejneger, in 1882 and 1883; 101 species plants, 

 mostly from China, collected by Ford, David, etc.; Aster nom-Belgii L., 

 and variety, ^s^er panicuZa^MS Lam., and Astei' vimineus Lam., all from 

 Massachusetts ; 1057 species plants, mostly European, from Herbarium 

 of Geo. Curling Joad. 



G. W. Holstein, through Thos. Meehan. 59 species plants, collected in 

 Texas, Arizona and Southern California, in 1883. 



L. J. Wahlstedt, of Christianstad, Sweden, through Robert Nordbloem, of 

 Philaria. A collection of Scandinavian Characeic, consisting of 31 species 

 and numerous varieties and forms. 



John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore. Md. Hieracium Marianum, Willd., 

 from Garrett Co., Md., formerly confounded with H. Gronoviilj., now 

 restored by Gray ; 26 species plants, collected by him in southern United 

 States, in 1884. 



Thos. C. Porter. 19 s)pecies plants from New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 



H. J. Hunt, U. S. N., of the Arctic Relief Search Party for the survivors 

 of the Jeannette, through Chas. E. Smith, of Philadelphia. 10 species 

 Arctic plants, collected in 1882, near the mouth of Lena River, Siberia. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Aubrey H. Smith. Fruit of Torreya Oalifornica, California ; Nut o^Areca 

 Catechu,, from S. China. 



G. Howard Parker. Usnea barbata and Batrachospermum moniUforme, 

 both from Hammonton, N. J. 



W. A. Kellerman of Manhattan, Kansas. 23 species plants, collected by 

 him in western Kansas. 



Mrs. Fanny E. Briggs, Le Centre, W. T., through Thos. Meehan. 6 species 

 plants, from Washington Terr. 



Isaac Bulk. Trichinium exaltatum Buth., Cult., native of Australia ; Gor- 

 donia picbescens, L'Her., and Halesia diptera, Willd., both from Bar- 

 tram's Garden. 



Fossil Botany.— S. E. Paschal. Plant impressions, Triassic shale, 



Buckingham Valley, Bucks Co., Pa. 

 A. H. Smith. Wood, Gold Run Mine, Cal. 



Minerals. —Joseph Leidy. White fluorite, locality unknown. 



C. S. Bement. Topaz, beryl, clevelandite, apatite, zircon, montmoril- 

 lonite, columbite, fluorite and orthoclase, Stoneham, Me. ; curved 

 muscovite, Branchville, Conn. 



W. W. Jefferis. Melanite garnets, Frascati, Italy; blende, Santander, 

 Spain ; pyrite, Laucaster Co., Pa. ; sphalerite, Alston Moor, Cumber- 

 land, Eng. ; pyrite in calcite, Chester Co., Pa. 



J. Binder. 9 specimens of granite, Maine. 



W. B. Eltonhead. Corundum, Lehigh Co., Pa. ; graphite and, anthracite 

 in cast iron ; arsenio-pyrite, blende and quartz, Dakota ; muscovite, 

 Custer City, Dakota. 



J. Hartman. Siderite and hematite, millerite in hematite, Antwerp, N. Y. 



G. W. Fiss. Columbite, Amelia Court House, Va. 



J. Border. Mica schists, from marl-pit, Mullica Hill, N. J. 



J. G. Hiestand. Astrophyllite, celestite, barite and calcite, and zircon, 

 Colorado. 



J. Lea. Cancrinite, Chester Co., Pa. 



H. C. Lewis. Calcite with byssolite, Chester Co., Pa. 



W. Hoyt. Chalcopyrite, Chester Co., Pa.; volcanic ash, Krakatoa. 



W. H. Bates. Magnetite, Marion Co., N. C. 



A. R. McHenry. Pumice, Java Sea, near Krakatoa. 



H. J. Smith. Cassiterite, Rockbridge Co., Va. 



H. H. Fames. Azurite and malachite, Santa Rita Mts., Arizona ; silver 

 in chrysocola, Quijotoa Mts., Arizona; muscovite and uranite, Ash 

 Co., N. C. 



J. Struthers. A collection of agates, silicified and opalized woods, land- 

 scape and other marbles, fluoites, calcites, quartz crystals and other 

 minerals, from various localitrs. 



S. Wood. Fossiliferous boulder, Escuminiac River, Bonaventure Co., 

 Canada. 



Mr. Linn. Limonite (ochre), Montgomery, Ala. 



P. F. Brown. Vivianite Mullica Hill, N. J. ; byssolite in calcite, French 

 Creek, Chester Co., Pa. 



D. 8. Martin. Coal, Discoe Island, Greenland ; turba, Bahia, Brazil. 

 Mineralogical Section A. N. S. Barite, Cumberland, England ; apophyl- 



lite and calcite, Chester Co., Pa.; crocidolite. South Africa ; vanadinite, 

 Arizona ; strengite and cacoxenite, Giessen, Germany ; pseudomorphs 

 after sarcolite, Canada ; priceite, Oregon ; pseudocotonnite, Vesuvius, 

 Italy ; vesbite, Vesuvius, Italy ; dietrichite, Hungary ; struvite, Schem- 

 nitz; clausthalite, Sweden; menacannite, var. washingtonite, Litchfield, 

 Conn.; euchlorine, Vesuvius, Italy; muscovite, barcenite, Mexico; 

 bornite, Colorado ; schraufite, Bukowina ; cubanite, Cal. ; kjerulflte and 

 tschermakit, Norway. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



December^ 1883^ to December, 188Jf. 



Ackermann, Carl. Beitrage zur physischen Geogi*aphie der Ostsee, 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Albrecht, Paul. Sur Ics elements morphologiqnes du Manubrium du 

 Sternun) chez les Mammiferes. 

 Sur les Homodynamies qui existent entre la main et le pied des 



Mammiferes. 

 Erwiderung auf Herrn Prof. Dr. Hermann v. Meyer's Aufsatz : — 

 " Der Zwischenkieferknochen und seine Beziehungen zur Hasens- 

 charte und zur schragen Gesichtsspalte." 

 Ueber die Zahl der Zahne bei den Hasenschartenkieferspalten. 

 Ueber die morphologische Bedeutung der Kiefer-Lippen- tmd Gesichti 



spalten. 

 Sur la fcssette vermienne du crane des Mammiferes. Bnixelles, 1884. 

 Sur les copulae intercostoidales. 

 Sur la fente maxillaire double sous-muqueuse. 

 Epiphyses osseuses sur les apophyses epinenses des vertebres d'un 



reptile. 

 Note sur le pelvisternum des Edentes. 



Sur les spondylocentres epipituitaires du crane, la non-existence de la 

 poche de Rathke et la presence de la chorde dorsale et de spondylo- 

 centres dans le cartilage de la cloison du nez des vertetires. 1884. 

 Sur la valeur morphologique de la trompe d'Eustache et les derives de 

 I'arc palatin, de I'arc mandibulaire et de I'arc bryoiden des vertebres. 

 1884. " The Author. 



Alcott, Wm. P. Introduced plants found in the vicinity of a wool -scouring 

 establishment. Essex Institute. 



Alert. Report on the Zoological collections made in the IndoPacific 

 Ocean during the voyage of H. M. S. "Alert." The British Museum. 

 Allen, Harrison. On a new method of recording the motions of the soft 

 palate. 1884. The Author. 



Allen, J. A. Notes on the Mammals of portions of Kansas, Colorado, 

 Wyoming and Utah, 1874. 

 List of Birds collected by Chas. Linden, near Santarem, Brazil, 1876. 

 A list of Birds of Massachusetts, with annotations, 1878. 



Essex Institute. 

 Anders, J. M. The exhalation of Ozone by flowering plants. The Author. 

 Anderson, John. Catalogue and hand-book of the archaeological collec- 

 tions in the Indian Museum. Part II. Gupta and Inscription Gal- 

 leries, 1883. Trustees of the Indian Museum. 

 Andr^, Ernest. Species des Hymenopteres composent le groupe des 

 Formicides. 1881-83. The Author. 

 Ashburner, Ch. Brief descriptions of the anthracite coal fields of Penn- 

 sylvania. The Author. 

 Astor Library. 33d annual report of the trustees, 1881. The Authors. 

 Bailey, G. E. Wyoming's wealth. Newspaper slip. The Author. 

 Baillon, H. Traite de Botanique medicale phanerogamique. ler Fasc. 

 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dictionnaire de Botanique, 16me Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Baker, J . Gilbert. On the present state of oui- knowledge of the geography 

 of British plants. The Author. 

 Barral, J. A. Enquete sur le credit agricole faite sur la demaude de M. le 

 Ministre de I'Agriculture. 1884. The Author. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Bary, A. de. Vergleichende Morphologie et Biologie der Pilze, Mycetozoen 

 und Bacterien. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fiiud. 



Bastian, Adolph. AUgemeine Grundziige der Ethnologie. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Beck, L. Die Geschichte des Eisens in technischer und kulturgeschicht- 

 licher Beziehung. 1 Abth. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Becker, George F. Monographs of the United States Geological Sur>ey, 

 Vol. III. Geology of the Comstock Lode and the Washoe District^ 

 with Atlas. Angelo Heilprin. 



Beecher, Chas. CeratiocaridsB from the Chemung and Waverly groups at 

 Warren, Pa. The Author. 



Bell, Clark. Madness and crime. The Author. 



Benoit, L. Nuovo catalogo delle conchiglie terrestre e fluviatili della 

 Sicilia. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Berg, Carlos. Notas sinonimicas acerca de algunos Coleopteros y Lepi- 

 dopteros. 

 Addenda et emendanda ad Hemiptera Argentina. The Author. 



Berge, Ernst. Segmenta lignoium Indiae occidentalis 10 cm. long, quae si 

 superficies polita erit, lignorum structuram dilucide ostendent. 

 Ceuturia I and HI. The Author. 



Binney, W. G. Notes on the jaw and lingual dentition of pulmonate 

 mollusks, 1884. The Author. 



Blanchard, Raphael. Les coccides utiles, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bliss, Richard. Library of Harvard University. Bibliographical Contri- 

 butions, No. 10. Classified Index to the Maps iu Petermann's 

 geographische Mittheilungen, 1855-1881. Prof. Justin Winsor. 



Boguslawski, Georg von. Handbuch der Ozeanographie. Bd. I, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Boehm, Georg. Register zum zweiten Band der pal aeon tologischen Mit- 

 theilungen aus dem Museum des K. Bayer. Staates, 1884. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Bogdanow, Modesto. Conspectus Avium Imperii Rossici. Fasc. 1. 



The Author. 

 Bohnenseig, G. C. W. Repertorium annuum Literaturse Botanicae Perio- 

 dicse. VII, 1 and 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Boissier, E. Flora Orientalis. V, 3. I. V. Williamscm Fund. 



Bolau, H. Fiihrer durch die Walfisch-Ausstellung im Zoologischen 

 Garten zu Hamburg. 

 Die Spatangiden des Hamburger Museums. The Author. 



Bombicci, Luigio. Commemorazione di Quintino Sella, promossa dal 

 Circolo Universitario V. E. II. The Author. 



Borre, Preudhomme de. Note sur les Glomerides de la Belgique. 1884. 

 Tentamen Catalogi Glomeridarum hucusque descriptarum. 

 Le feuille qui se transforme en insecte. 

 Liste des Mantides du Musee Royal d'historre naturelle de Belgique, 



1883. 



Notice necrologique sur Jules Putzeys. The Author. 



Bourguignat, J. R. Species novissimae Molluscorum, in Europaeo syste- 



mati detectse, notis diagnobticis succinctis breviter descriptae. 1876. 



MoUusques fluviatiles du Nyanza Oukerewe (Victoria Nyauza), suivi 



d'une note sur les genres Cameronia et Burtonia du Tanganika. 1883. 



MoUusques terrestres et fluviatiles i-ecueillis en Afrique dans le pays 



^omalis Medjourtin. 1881. 

 Histoire malacologique de la Colline de Sansan, 1881. 

 Meteriaux pour servir a 1' histoire des MoUusques Acephales du Systems 



Europeen. I. 1881. 

 Monographies des genres Pechaudia et Hagenmulleria d^couverts en 

 Algerie. 1881. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



AperQU sur les Unionidse de la Peninsule Italique. 1883. 



Paulia, ou description d'une nouveau groupe generique de la Ville 



d' Avignon. 1882. 

 Bythiospeurn, ou description d'un nouveau genre des MoUusques 



aveugles. 1883. 

 Histoire Malacologique de I'Abypsinie. 1883. 



Description de di verses especes terrestres et fluviatiles et de different 

 genre de Mollusques de I'Eoypte, de 1' Abyssinia, de Zanzibar, du 

 Senegal et du centre de I'Afrique. 1879. 

 AperQu sur les especes Fran^aises du genre Succinea. 1877. 

 Miscellanees Italo-Malacologiques. 

 Monographic du nouveau geiue Filholia. 1881. 

 Monographic du genre Emmericia. 1880. 

 Inscrijition Romaines de Venice (Alpes-Maritimes). 1869. 

 Ouvra^jes de megalithologie, d'epigraphie, d'osteologie et de paleon- 

 , tologie. 

 Etude sur les fossiles tertiares et quaternaires de la Vallee de la 



Cettina en Dalmatic. 1880. 

 Recherches sur les ossements de Canidfe constates en France a I'etat 



fossiles pendant la periode quaternaire. 



Histoire des Felidse fos.siles constates en France dans les depots de la 



periode quaternaire. 4to. 1879. The Author. 



Brefeld. Oscar. Untersuchungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der Mykologie. 



Fortsetzung der Schimmel und Hefenpilze. VI, H., Myxomyceten, 



1 ; Entoraophthoreen, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brinton, Daniel G. Abor ginal American Authors. 1883. 



Karl Hermann Berendt. The Author. 



British Museum. Catalogue of the birds in the. Vol. IX. 1884. 



The Trustees. 

 Broeck, E. van der. Note sur un nouveau mode de classification et de 

 notation graphique des depots geologiques base sur I'etudt^ des 

 phenomenes de la sedimentation marine. The Author. 



Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. ler Bd., Protozoa 

 (Butschli), 20-25 Lief. • 5er Bd., 11. Abih., 11 and 12 Lief. 6er 

 Bd., Ill Abth., 41 and 42 Lief; IV Abth , and V Abth., 27 Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 



Brooks, W. K. Handbook of Invertebrate Zoology, for laboratories and 



seaside work. Boston, 1882. Wm. H. Dougherty. 



The Law of Heredity. 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Briihl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Lief. 28, 29 and 80. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bucquoy, E., Ph. Dautzenberg and G. Dollfus. Les moUusques marins 



du Roussillon. Fasc 5 and 6. . I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Buckingham, B. H., Geo. C. Foulk and Walter McLean. Observations 



upon the Korean Coast, Japanese-Koiean ports and Siberia. 1883. 



Navy Dei>artment. 

 Bureau of Education. Circulai-s of Information, No. 5, 1873 ; Nos. 3 and 

 5, 1883 ; Nos. 1-5, 1884. Preliminary circular respecting the exhi- 

 bition of education at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial. 

 1884. 

 Report of American School at Athens. 

 The Bufalini Prize. 1883. 

 Education in Italy and Greece. 1883. 



The Department of the Interior, 



Bureau of Statistics. Quarterly report of the Chief. Nos. 2, 3 and 



Sept. 30, 1883-84 ; 1884, No. 4. Treasury Department. 



Buenos Ayres, Annuaire Statistique de la Province de. He Ann6e, 1882. 



Bureau de Statistique Generale, Bnenos Ayres. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Call, 11. E,, and C. E. Beecher. Notes on a Nevada shell (Pyrgula neva- 



densis). The Authors. 



Cantoni, Gaetano. Saggio di fisiologia vegetale, 1883. The Author. 



Carpmael, Ch. Report of the meteorologi-eal service of the Dominion of 



Canada, 1883. The Author. 



Casey, Thomas L. Contributions to the descriptive and systematic cole- 



opterology of North America. The Author. 



Caswell. E. T. Annual address before the American Academy of Medicine. 



1881. Dr. R. J. Dunglison. 



Censo general de la Provincia de Buenos Aires demografico, agricola, 



industrial, comercial, etc. Verificado el 9 de Octubre de 1881. 



The Census Commisson. 

 Certes, A. De I'act-ion des haute pi-essions sur la vitalite des micro- 

 organisms d'eau douce et d'eau de mer, 1884. 

 Sur la cu ture, al'abri des germes atmospheriques des eaux et des 

 segments rapportes par les expeditions du Travailleur et du Talis- 

 man, 1882-83. The Author. 

 Challenger, Voyage of. Report of the scientific results. Zoology, Vols. 

 Ill — VIII ; Narrative, II ; Physics and Chemistry, I. 



Her Biitannic Majesty's Government. 



Ohamberlin, S C. The bearing of some recent determinations on the 



correlation of the eastern and western terminal moraines. 



Hillocks of angular gravel and disturbed stratification. The Author. 



Chapman, Henry C History of the discovery of the circulation of the 



blood, 1884. The Author. 



Chief of Engineers, U. S. A. Annual report, 1883. Pts. 1, 2 and 3. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A, 



Chief of Oi'dnance. Report of. 1883, War Department. 



Christian Philosophical Institute. Geometry of the circular plane and 



the harmony of the solar courses. 



Appendix and corrigenda to the earlier editions of John Hampden's 



map of the world as a circular plane. 

 Common sense on scientific subjects. 

 What is a Jew ? 



A compendium of practical instruction in the laws of nature. London, 



1884. The Institute. 



City Hospital, Boston. Twentieth annual report of the Ti-ustees, 1883-84. 



The Trustees. 



Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of New Zealand. 18tti annual 



report, together with the 14th annual report on the Colonial Botanic 



Garden, 1882-83. 



Reports of geological explorations during 1882. The Pui-vey. 



Colorado Scientific Society. Artesian wells of Denver, 1884. The Society. 



Comite Geologique, Russe. Bulletin 1882, 1883, Nos. 1-9 ; 1884, 1-5 ; 



Memoires I, 1, 2. The Survey. 



Commissioner of Education. Reports, 1881-83. 



Department of the Interior. 



Commissioners of Inland Fisheries. 18th annual report, December 31, 



1883. The Commissioners. 



Cope, Edw. D. On the contents of a bone cave in the Island of Anguilla 



(West Indies). 



The evidence for evolution in the history of the extinct mammalia. 



1883. 

 Paleontological Bulletins. Nos. 37-39. 

 The Condylarthra. 

 On Catagenesis, 1883. 

 The Creodonta. 



The Tertiary Marsupialia, 1884. 

 The Batrachia of the Permian period of North America. The Author. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Corda, A. C. J. Icones fungorum hucusque cognitorum. Vols. 1-6. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Correspondance Botanique. Xe ed. The Author. 



Corwin, Cruise of the Kevenue Steamer, in Alaska and the N. W. Arctic 



Ocean in 1871. Treasury Department. 



Coues, E. Key to the North American Birds. 2d ed., 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Council of the City of Manchester, 31st annual repoit on the working of 



the Public Free Libraries, 1882-83. The Council. 



Crandale, A. R. Prtlimiuary report on the geology of Morgan, Johnson, 



Magoffin and Floyd Counties. Geological Survey of Kentucky 



Crudeli, Tomaso. Che cosa si puo fare in tempo di colera? 1884 



The Author. 

 Dall, W. H. A new classification of the Mollusca. 



On a collection of shells sent from Florida. The Author. 



Dallas, James. On the primary divisions and geographical distribution of 



mankind. The Author. 



Dames, W. und E. Kayser, Palaeontologische Abhandlungen. ler Bd. 



H. 3, 4 ; II, 1-3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dana, James D. New text book of geology. 4th edition. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



De Candolle, Alph, Monographise Phanerogamarum Prodromi. Vol. 5, 



Pars Prima. Cyrtandrese. Auctore C. B. Clarke. Wilson Fund. 



Delogne, C. H. Flore Cryptogamiquede la Belgique. IrePartie, Muscines. 



ler Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



De Man, J. G. Die, frei in der reinen Erde und im siissenwasser lebenden 



Nematoden der Niederlandischen Fauna, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Department of Agriculture, Miscellaneous. Special repnrt, Nos. 3 and 5. 



Division of Statistics, N. S. Report Nos. 3-7. The Department. 



Department of the Interior. Census Office. Report on the productions of 



agriculture as returned at the 10th census (June 1, 1880). 



Statistics of the population of the United States at the 10th census, 



June 1, 1880. 

 Report of the manufactures of the United States. 2 Vols., 1883. 

 General Geological map of the area explored and mapped by Dr. 

 F. V. Hayden and the surveys under his charge. 18(i9-1880, 



The Department. 

 Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. Report for the year 1883. 



The Department. 

 Dewalque, G. Notice explicative sur la Carte geologique de la Belgique 

 et des Provinces voisines. 1879. Geological Survey of Belgium. 



Dobson, G. E. A monograph of the insectivora systematical and anatom- 

 ical. Pts. 1 and 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dollo, M. L. Quatrieme note sur les Dinosauriens de Bernissart. The Author. 

 Drasche, Richard von. Beitrage zur Entwickelung der Polychseten. les H. 

 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Drechsler, Adolph. Characteristic der philosophischen Systeme seit Kant. 

 1863. 

 Die Philosophic im Cyclus der Naturwissenschaften. 1863. 

 Die Stellung des Fichte'schen Systems im Entwickelungsgange der 



Philosophie. 2e Aufl., 1862. 

 Die Personlichkeit Gottes und des Menschen begriflfiich bestimmt und 



als nothwendige Annahme dargethan. 1856. 

 Astrologische Voi'trage. 1855. 



Scholien zu Christoph Rudolphs Coss. 1851. The Author. 



Dunker, W., and K. Zittel. XXX. Bd., I. and II. Th., le Lief. 

 PalsBontographica. B. XXXI., 3 folge, Vll. B., 1 and 2 Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Elliot, D. G. A monoorraph of the Felidae. Part XI. Wilson Fund. 



Ellis, John. Deterioration of the Puritan stock and its causes. 



The Author. 



Encyclopaedia Britannica, Vols. 16 and 17. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Encyklopsedie der Naturwissenschaften. le Abth., 35e-38e Lief., 2e Abth., 



17e und 25e Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. Report on the International Exhibition 



of Electricity held at Paris, 1881. 



Professional notes by Capt. E. Maguire. 



Studies on coast defense applied to the Gulf of Spezia, by C. Guarasci. 



Engineer Department U. S. A. 

 Engler, Edmund A. Time-keeping in Paris. St. Louis, 1882. 



Time-keeping iu London. St. Louis, 1882. The Author. 



Expedicion al Rio Negro (Patagonia). Informe official de la Comision 



cientifica agregarlo al estado mayor general de la. Ent. 1, 2 and 3. 



The Academy of Sciences of the Argentine Republic. 



Fabre, J. H. Souvenirs entomologiques. Etudes sur 1' instinct et les 



moeurs des insectes, 1879. 



Nouveaux souvenirs entomologiques, 1882. Harold Wingate. 



Farlow, W. G. Notes on the cryptogamic flora of the White Mountains. 



Notes on some species in the third and eleventh centuries of Ellis's 



North American Fungi. 

 Notes on some Ustilaginese of the United State*. 



Enumeration of the Peionosporse of the United States. The Author. 



Fernandez, Leon. Coleccion de documentos para la historia de Costa 



Rica. T. III. The Author. 



Fewkes, F. W. Contributions to the Myology of Tachyglossa hystrix. 



Echidna hystrix. Essex Institute. 



Financial Reform Almanack for 1884. Financial Reform Association. 



Fischer, Alfred. Untersuchungen iiber das Siebrohren-System der Cucur- 



bitaceen. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Frscher, Paul. Manuel de Conchyliologie. Fasc. 6 and 7. The Author. 



Flemming, Walther. Zellsubstanz, Kern und Zelltheilung, 1882. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Florida University. Calendar, 1884-5. The Trustees. 



Flower, Wra. Henry, and John G. Garson. Catalogue of the specimens 



illustiating the osteology and dentition of vertebrated animals, 



recent and extinct, contained in the Museum of the Royal College 



of Surgeons of England. Part II, Class Mammalia, other than man. 



The Council of the College. 

 Frazer, Persifor. The Peach-bottom Slates of the Lower Susquehanna. 

 1884. 

 Reply to a paper entitled "Notes on the Geology of Chester Valley 



and vicinity." 1884. 



Geological and mineral studies in Nuevo Leon and Coahuila, Mexico. 



1884. The Author. 



Fritsch, Ant. Fauna der Gaskohle und der Kalksteine der Permformation 



Bohmens I, 4. I. V. Williamson Fuud. 



Garman, Samuel. The reptiles and batrachians of North America. 



The Author. 

 Gaudry, Albert. Les Enchainements du monde animal dans les temps 

 geologiqae. Fossiles primaires. 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gautier, Lucien Marie. Les Champignons, Paris, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geddes, Patk. Re-statement of the cell theory. The Author. 



Gegenbauer, C. Lehrbuch der Anatomic des Menschen, 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fand. 

 Genth, F. A. On Herderite, 1884. The Author. 



24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. Report of Progress 

 for 1880-81-82, with maps. 

 Palaeozoic Fossils, III, 1. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of India. Records, XV, 4 ; XVI, 1-4 ; XVJI, 1-3. 

 Memoirs, 8vo, XIX, 2-4 ; XX, 1, 2. 



Memoirs, 4to, Palseontologia Indica, ser. X, vol. 2, Pts. 4 and 6 ; vol. 



3, Pts. 1-4 ; Ser. XII, Vol. 4, Pt. 1 ; Ser. XIII, I, 4 ; Fasc. 1 and 2; 



Ser. XIV, Vol. 1, Pt. 4. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of New Jersey. Annual report, 1883. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of Peunsylvania. Reports AA, AC, text and atlas, D^, 



Vol. II, G'. The Commission, 



Gerlach, Leo. Beitrage zur Morphologie und Morphogenie. I, 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gervais, Henri, et Florentine Ameghino. Les Mammiferes fossiles de 



I'Ameiique du Sud. 1880. I. V. Williamstm Fund. 



Gilpin, Edwin, Jr. The folding of the carboniferous strata in the maritime 



provinces of Canada. The Author. 



Godwin-Austin, H. H. Land and freshwater mollusca of India Pts. 1-4. 



Text and atlas, 5, atlas. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Goode, G. Brown and Tarleton H. Bean. A list of the fishes of Essex 



County, including those of Massachusetts Bay. Essex Institute. 



Gould, John. The birds of Asia. Pts. 34 and 35. 



Supplement to the Trochilidse or Humming-birds, Pt. 3. 



The Birds of New Guinea. Pts. 13 and 14. Wilson Fund. 



Graber, Vitus. Grundlinien zur Erfoi schung des Helligkeits- und Farben- 



sinnes der Thiere. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Graff, Ludwigv. Monographic der Turbellarien, I. Rhabdocoelida. Text 



and Atlas, 1882. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gray, Arthur F. A complete list of the scientific papers of Thomas Bland, 



1884. The Author. 



Gray, Asa. Synoptical flora of North America. Vol. I, Pt. 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



A i-evision of the North American species of the genus Oxytropis. 



Memorials of George Engleman and of Oswald Heer. The Author. 



Green, Samuel Abbott. Notes on a copy of Dr. Wm. Douglass's Almanack 



for 1743, touching on the subject of medicine in Massachusetts before 



his time. The Author. 



Green, Traill, Annual address before the American Academy of Medicine. 



1882. Dr. R. J.Dunglison. 



Greene, C. A. Fertilizers in general, and the greensand marl of King 



William County, Virginia, in particular. 



An essay on insects injurious to vegetation, and how to get rid of 



them. ' The Author. 



Grifiiths, G. S. On the evidences of a glacial epoch in Victoria, during 



post miocene times. The Author. 



Griiber, Wenzel. Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichen- 



den Anatomie. H. 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Guarasci, Csesar. Studies on coast defense, applied to the Gulf I'f Spezia. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Giimbel, K. W. von. Grundziige der Geologic. I. Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Guia da ExposiQao anthropologica Braziliera realizada pelo IMuseu 

 Nacional de Rio de Janeiro. 1882. The Museum. 



Guthrie, Malcolm. On Mr. Spencer's Data of Ethics. 1884. The Author. 

 Haas, H. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der liasrchen Brachiopodenfauna. 

 Hall, James. Geological Survey of the State of New York. Palaeon- 

 tology, V, 1. Lamellibranchiata, I. Text. 1884. The Author. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Hampden, John. Biblical Science Defense Association. The earth in its 



creation, its chronology, its physical features and the one alone 



portion of the universe adapted to man's occupation and service. 



1884. . The Author. 



Hebert, M. Notes sur la geologic du Department de I'Ariege. 1884. 



The Author. 

 Hector, James. Handbook of New Zealand. Wellington, 1883. 



The Author. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Contributions to the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology 



of the United Statts. The Author. 



Heraud, A. Nouveau dictionnaire des Plantes meridionales. 2me ed. 



1884. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hertwig, O. Die Chaetognathen. 1880. 



Die 8ymbiose oder das Genossenscbaftsleben im Thierreich. 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hertwig, O. and R. Die Coelomtheorie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hertwig, R. Ueber den Bau der Ctenophoren. 1880. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hicks, Henry. On the Cambrian Conglomerates resting upon and in the 



vicinity of some Pre-Cambrian rocks (the so-calkd Intrusive 



Masses in Anglesey and Caernarvonshire. 



The succession in the Archfean Rocks of America, compared with that 



in the Pre-Cambr an Rocks of Europe. 



On the Pre-Cambrian Rocks of Pembrokeshire, with especial reference 



to the St. David's District. The Author. 



Hidalgo, J. G. Catalogo iconografico y descriptive de los moluscos 



terrestres de Espana, Portugal y las Baleares. 1884. The Author. 



Hobbs, Isaac H. The Mehanism of the Universe. 1883. The Author. 



Homes, Rudolf. Elemente der Palaeoutologie (Palaeozoologie). Leipzig, 



1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hooker, Sir J. D. The Flora of British India. Part 11. 



East Indian Government. 

 Hoyle, W. E. On a new species of Octopus (O. maculosus). The Author. 

 Hunt, T. Sterry The Geological History of the Serpentines, including 

 studies of pre-Cambrian rocks. 1883. 

 The Taconic question in Geology. Part I. 1883. The Author. 



Hutton, F. W. Notes on some New Zealand Laud Shells, with descriptions 

 of new species. 

 Revihion of the recent Rhipidoglossate and Docoglossate moUusca of 

 New Zealand. The Author. 



Indiana. Second Annual Report of the Department of Statistics and 

 Geology. 1880. The Author. 



Department of Geology and Natural History. 11th and 13t,h Annual 

 Reports. Part I, Geology and Natural Histoiy; Part II, Paleon- 

 tology. The Survey. 

 James, Jos. F. Contributions to the Floia of Cincinnati. The Author. 

 James, U. P Descriptions of four new species of Fossils from the Cincin- 

 nati group. 1884. 

 On Conodonts and fossil Annelid jaws. 1884. The Author. 

 Jannettaz, Ed. Memoires sur la clivages des roches Schistosite, Longrain, 

 et sur leur reproduction 1884. The Author. 

 Jeflfieys, J. Gwyn. On the Mollusca prof^ured during the Lightning and 

 Porcupine Expedition. 1868-70. Paii, VIII. The Author. 

 Jewish Foster Home and Orphan Asylum of Philadelphia. 29th Annual 

 Report. The Trustees. 

 Jijima, I. and C. Sasaki. Okadaira Shell-Mounds at Hitachi. Tokio, 

 1883. The Author. 

 Kalender und Statistisches Jahrbuch fiir das Konigreich Sachsen. 1885. 



The Minister of the Interior, Saxony. 

 Keyserling, Eugen, Graf. Neue Spinnen aus Amerika. V. The Author. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Kjerulf, Th. Die Dislocationen im Christianiathal. 1884. The Author. 



Konigl. Frederiks Universitets Bibliothek, Fortegnelse over den Tilvaett. 



18S0-81. The University. 



Koren, Johan og D. C Danielssen. Bergens-Museum. Nye Alcyonider, 



Gorgouider og Pennatulider tilhoreude Norges Fauna, 1883. 



The Museum. 



Kobelt, W. Iconographie der schalentragenden europaischen Meerescbn- 



chylien. Heft 1 and 2, 1883. ' I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kneeland, Samuel. The subsidence theory of earthquakes. The Author. 



Kriechbaumer, Dr. J. Fried. Klugsgesamelte Aufsatze iiber Blattwespen. 



1884. The Author., 



Krukenberg. C. F. W, Grundziige einer vergleichenden Physiologic der 

 Farbstoflfe und der Farben, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kunz, Geo. F. Topaz and associated minerals from Stoneham, Maine. 

 On the Tourmaline and associated minerals of Auburn, Maine. 



The Author. 

 Laache, S. Die Aniimie. Christiania, 1883. 



Royal Frederiks University of Christiana. 



Latzuia, Francis. The Argentine Republic as a field for European 



emigration. 1888. Argentine Scientific Society. 



Lawes, John Bennet. Memoranda of the origin, plan and results of the 



field and other experiments conducted on the farm and in the 



laboratory of, 1884. The Author. 



Lawrence, Geo. N, Descriptions of new species of birds of the genera 



Chrysotis, Formicivora and Spermophila. 



Characters of a new species of pigeon of the genus Engraptila from 



the island of Grenada, West Indies. The Author. 



Lehmann, Johannes. Untersuchungen iiber die Entstehung der Alt- 



crystiiUinischen Scheifergesteine mit besonderer Bezugnahme auf 



das siichsische Granulitgebirge, Erzgebirge, Fichtelgebirge und 



Bairisch-Bohmische Grenzgebirge I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Leitgeb, Hubert. Ueber Bau und Entwicklung der Sporeuhaute und 



Verbal ten bei der Keimung. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lenhossek, Joseph Edlen von. Die Ausgrabungen zu Szeged-Uthalom in 



Ungarn. 1884. The Author. 



Lesquereux, Leo and Thos. P. James. Manual of the Mosses of North 



America. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Levi ck, James J. A fairy tale written for and first read to .... at 



a dinner given to Prof. Jos. Leidy M. D. The Author. 



Lewis, H. C. The Geology, Lithology, and Mineralogy of Philadelphia 



and vicinity. Newspaper slips. 1883. 



On supposed glaciation in Pennsylvania south of the terminal moraine. 



Summary of progress in mineralogy in 1883. The Author. 



Leydig, Franz. Untersuchungen zur Anatomic und Histologic der Thiere. 



1883. 



Die augenahnlichen Organe der Fische, 1881. L V. Williamson Fund. 



Library of the Suigeon General's Ofl&ce, United States Army, Index 



Catalogue, Vol. V. War Department. 



Light-House Board, annual report, June 30, 1883, Tieasury Department. 



Linnaeus, framed portrait of. Clias. E. Smith. 



Linney, W. M. Notes on the rocks of Central Kentucky, with lists of 



fossils. 



Report on the botany of Madison, Lincoln, Garrard, Washington and 



Marion Counties, Ky. 

 Report on the geology of Garrard County, Ky. 

 Report on the geology of Mercer County, Ky. 

 Report on the geology of Washington County, Ky. 

 Report on the geology of Lincoln County, Ky. 



Geological Survey of Kentucky, 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Lippincott's Gazetteer of the Worli. New Edition, Pliilad., 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Liverpool Free Public Library, Catalogue. Reference Department, Part 

 3. The Trustees. 



Locard, A mould. Monographic des Helices du groupe de 1' Helix bolenensis 

 Locard. 

 Histoire des mollusques dans I'antiquite. 

 Les coqnilles sacrees dans les religions Indoues. 1884. 

 8ur quelques cas d'Albinisrae et de Melanisme ches les mollusques 

 tenestres et d'eau douce de la faune Fi-an(jaise. 

 • De la valeur des caracteres specifiques en Malacologie. 1883. 



The Author. 



Loewe, Ludwig. Beitrage zur Anatomic und zur Entwickelungsgeschichte 



desNervensystem der SaugethiereunddesMenschen. 2. Bd. 1. Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lyman, Benj. i^mith. Geological and topographical sketch maps of the 

 Hinckley Coal Tracts in Brooklield Township, Trumbull Co., Ohio ; 

 near Warsaw, Coshocton Co., Ohio, and of the New York and 

 Westmoreland Gas Coal Company's lands at Manor Station, West- 

 moreland Co., Pa. 

 Geological Survey of Japan. Geological and topographical maps of 

 the oil lands of Japan. 1882. The Author, 



McCook, H. C. How Lycosa fabricates her round cocoon. 

 Note on the amphibious habit of Lycosa. 

 A Spider that makes a spherical mud-daub cocoon. 

 The rufous or thatching ant of Dakota and Colorado. 

 Note on two new California spiders and their nests. 

 A web-spinning neuropterous insect. 

 The Occident unt in Dakota. 

 How a carpenter ant queen founds a formicary. 



Restoration of limbs in Tarantula. The Author. 



McGill University. Annual calendar of the faculty of medicine. 1884. 



The University. 



Maclntire, Chas., Jr. The percentage of college-bred men in the medical 



profession. Dr. R. J. Dunglison. 



McLachlan, Robt. A monographic revision and synopsis of the Trichop- 



tera of the European fauna. First additional supplement. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Maguire, Capt. E. Profess-ional notes. Washington, 1884. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Marcy, Henry O. Annual address before the American Academy of Medi- 

 cine. 1883. Dr. R. J. Dunglison. 

 Marques, Manuel Enfrazio de Azevedo. Apuntamentos historicos, geo- 

 graphicos, biographicos, estaticos e noticiosas da Prov'iicia de S. 

 Paulo. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Martin. H. Newell, and W. A. Moale. Handbook of vertebrate dissection. 

 Part I, How to dissect a Chelonian ; Part H, How to dissect a bird. 



I. "V. Williamson Fund. 



Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinct. 325e-830e 



Lief. Wilson Fund. 



Meinert, Fr. Caput Scolopendrje. 1883. L V. Williamson Fund. 



Meehan, Thos. Catalogue of plants collected in July, 1883, during an 



excursion along the Pacific coast in southeastern Alaska. 



The Author. 

 Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York. (13d annual 

 report, 1883-84. The Trustees. 



Mercantile Library Associate n, San Francisco. Annual report, 1883. 



The Association. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Mercantile Library Company of Philadelphia. Bulletin I, 6. 61st annual 



report. The Directors 



Meteoriten-Kreisreichen als Erzeuger der Kometen Sonnenflecke, des 



Eidmagnetismus, des Winds uud Regens, des Sonuenlichtes, der 



Sonnenhize, u. s, w. The Author. 



Meunier, Stanislaus. Les pierres et les terrains. 1881. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mexico and Central America. A fine collection of Charnay photographs 



of antiquities, peoples, stations, etc., consisting of 109 cabinet and 



34 large and 2 extra large plates. Dr. G. E. Abbott. 



Michael, D. British Oribatoidse. Ray Society, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Miller, V. The useful minerals of European Russia. Text, pp. 1-244, 



and map in two she. ts. 1883. The Author. 



Ministerulu Lucrariloru Publice. Anuai'ulu Biurouliu Geologicu Anulii. 



1882, 1883. No. 1, Bucuresoi, 1.^84. 



The Department of Public Works, 

 Monterosato, Marchese di. Conchiglie littorali Mediterranee. 



The Author. 

 Mueller, Baron F. von. Western Australia. The plants indigenous 

 around Sharks Bay and its vicinity. 1883. 

 Geological survey of Victoria. Observations on new vegetable fo.«sils 



of the auriferous drifts. Melbourne, 1883. 

 Select extra-tropical plants, readily eligible for industiial culture or 

 naturalization, with indications of their native countries and some 

 of their uses. 1884. 

 Eucalyptograpbia, 9th decade. 

 Additions to the census of the genera of plants hitherto known as 



indigenous to Australia. 

 Excel pts from Prof. Hugo Schulz's treatise on eucalyptus oil. 



The Author. 

 Miiller, Fritz. Facts and arguments for Darwin. 1869. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Musee Royale d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgique. Service de la Carte 

 geologique du Royaume, Explication de les feuilles de Natoye, 

 Denant, Bilsen, Clavier und Bruxelles. With five maps. 



Geological Survey of Belgium, 



Musser, J. H. On paroxysmal fever — not malarial. The Author. 



Natural History Society of Toronto. Check list and label list of the 



insects of the i ominion of Canada. 1883. The Society. 



Naturw. I.andesforschung von Bohmen, Archiv. Ill, 1 ; V, 3, Geol. Abth. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. Catalogus der Bibliotheek. 

 1884. The Society. 



Newlands, John A. R. On the discovery of the periodic law and on rela- 

 tions among atomie weights. I'he Auihor. 

 New South Wales. Australian Museum ; report of the trustees for 1883. 



The Tiustees. 

 Norske Gradmaalingskommission. Vandstandsobservationer. II H. 1883. 



The Commission. 

 Northern Transcontinental Survey. Topographical Bulletin, No. 1, six 

 sheets of maps. Forest Department, No. 1, one map. Agricultural 

 Department, Bulletin No. 1, one sheet and three maps. Agricul- 

 tural Department, Map Bulletin, No. 1, by E. W. Hilgard. Forest 

 Department, Map Bulletin, No. 1. Yakmia Region, W. T. 



The Director. 



Oberdieck, Gustav. Ueber Epithel und Driisen der Hamblase und weib- 



lichen und mannlichen Uretra, 1884. The Author. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Paleontologie Franqaise Terrain Jurassique, Livr. 65-70. Terrain 

 Cretace. Livr. 30 - 33. Wilson Fund. 



Palaeontographical [Society Publications, Vol 37. 



I V. Williamson Fund. 

 Palmen, J. A. Ueber paarige Ausfuhrungsgange der Geschlechtsorgane 

 bei lusecten. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Parker, J, A course of instruction in Zootomy. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Peacock, R. A. Saturated steam the motive povper in volcanoes and 

 earthquakes; great importance of electricity. 1882. The Author. 

 Peale, A. C The World's Geyser Regions, 1884. The Author. 



Peale, Titian R. Plates of Lepidoptera, issued after the publication of 

 first number. The Author. 



Pelzeln, A. v. Zur Ornithologie Braziliens. Resultate von Johann Naterers 

 Reisen in den Jahren 1817-1835. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial Art. 8th annual report, 

 December 31, 1883. The Trustees. 



Peter, Robert. Comparative views of the c omposition of the soils, lime- 

 stones, clays, marls, etc., etc., of the several geological formations. 



Geological Survey of Kentucky. 

 Philadelphia Society for Organizing Charity 5th annual report. October 

 1, 1883. ^ The Society. 



Photographie appliquee au sciences biologiques. Lyon, 1884. 



The Author, 



Pictet, F. J. Historie Naturelle generale et particuliere des Insectes 



neuropteres. Ire Monog., Pereides, texts and plates. 2e Monogr., 



Ephemerines, Ire-lOeLivr. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pilar, Georgio. Flora fossil is Suscedana. 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Piolti, G. II porfide del Vallone di Roburent (Valle della Stura di Cuneoj 



'1884. 

 Plateau, Felix. Recherches sur la force absolue des muscles des Inver- 

 tebres. IrePartie. The Author. 



Plumer, Mary N. Dissemination of Seeds, 1881. Essex Institute. 



Portis, Alex., and Guiseppi Piolti. II Calcare del Monte Tabor. ls83. 



The Author. 

 Powell, J. W. 2d annual report of the U. S. Geological Survey. 1881-81. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Prince, C. L. The summary of a meteorological journal kept by C. L. 

 Prince, F. R. A. S., at his Observatory, Crowborough, Sussex. 



The Author. 

 Procter, John R. Geological Survey of Kentucky. Resources of the North 

 Cumberland Valley. Part 4, Vol. VI, 2d Ser. 

 Information for emigrants. The Survey. 



Putnam, F. W. Abstract of an account of recent archaeological excursions 

 in Wisconsin and Ohio. 

 On the antiquity of man in America. April 30, 1884. 

 Abnormal human skulls from stone-graves in Tennessee. 

 A new stand for skulls. The Author. 



Quaterfages, A. de. Hommes fossiles et hommes sauvages. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Queenstedt, F. A. Die Ammoniten des Schwabischen Jura. Hefts 2 and 



3. Text and atlas. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Radekofer, Ludwig. Ueber die Methoden in der botanischen systematik 



insbesondei e die anatomische Methode. Royal Academy of Sciences 



of Munich. Another copy. The Author. 



Randolph, N. A. A. study of the distribution of gluten within the wheat 



grain. 



A note on the feces of starch-fed infants. The Author. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Randolph, N. A., and A. E. Eonssel. An examination of the feces of 



twenty persons receiving inunctions of cod-liver oil. By N. A. 



Randolph, M. D., and A. E. Roussel, M. D. The Authors. 



Rantoul, Robert S. Memoir of Benjamin Peirce, 1881. Essex Institute. 



Rathbun, Frank R. A revised list of birds of Central Ne\? York, 1879. 



The Author. 

 Rayet, M. Observations pluviometriques et thermometriques faites dans 

 le department de la Gironde de Juin 1882 a Mai 1888. The Author. 

 Renevier, E. Orographic de la partie des Hautes-Alpes calcaires comprise 

 entre le Rhone et le Rawyl. 1881. 

 Rapport sur la maiche du musee geologique Vaudois en 1881. 

 La niusee geologique de Lausanne en 1882. 



Rapport (I'expertise sur les eaux thermales de Lavey addresse au 



Departement de I'Interieui- du Canton de > and par Messieurs E. 



Renevier, T. A Forel, A. Heim^ E. Stockalper and D. Colladon. 



, 1883. 



Etude geologique sur le nouveau projet de Tunnel Conde traversant le 



massif du simplou. 1883. 



Tableau des terrains sedimentaires formes pendant les epoques de la 



phase organique du globe terrestre avec leurs representants en 



Suisse et dans les regions classiques. Tea sheets. The Author. 



Report of the Canadian observations on the transit of Venus, 6th Dec. 1882. 



Report on the Cotton production of the Indian Territory and the States 



of Aikansas, Texas and Georgia. Four pamphlets. Angelo Heilprin. 



Report of the Tenth Census of the United States, 1880. Vols. 4-8. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Republica Argentina. Sistema de Medidas y Pesas, 1881. 



The Academy of Sci^nces of the Argentine Republic. 



Reusch, Hans H. Silurfossiler og pressede Konglomerater i Bergf'ns- 



skrifrene. 18^2. Royal Frederiks University of Christiania. 



Ridgvray, Robt. Descriptions of some new birds from Lower California, 



collected by Mr. L. Belding The Author. 



Rivero, Mariano E. de, y Juan Diego de Tschudi. Antigiiedades 



V Peiuanas. Ge.>. Vaux. 



Robinson, John. Notes on the woody plants of Essex County, 1879. 



The Flora of Essex, 1880. 



Our trees in winter. Essex Inst. 



Rogers, Henry Raymond Force, its origin and philosophy of development. 



The Author. 

 Rosmassler's Iconographie der europaischen land- und slisswasser-Mol- 

 lusken N. f. ler. Bd. 3e-6e Lief. Wilson Fund. 



Rostaflnskiego, Jozefa. Sluzowce (Mycetuzoa) monografia. 1875. 



Dodatek 1, do Monogiafii Sluzowcow. 1876^ I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Roux, Wilhelm. Der Kampf der Theile im Organismus. 1881. 



Uebr die Zeit der Bestimmung der Hauptrichtungen des Froschembryo. 



Leipzig 1883. 

 Ueber die Bedeutung der Kerntheilungsnguren. Leipzig, 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rumphius, G. E. Herbarium Amboinense. 4 vols., folio. Amstelodami, 



1741. John H. Redfield. 



Russ, Karl. Die fremdlandischen Stubenvogel. 4er Bd., 3e und 4e Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ryder, John A. On the preservation of embryonic materials and small 



organisms, together with hinis upon embedding and mounting 



serially. 



A contribution to the embryography of the osseous fishes, with special 



reference to the development of the cod, Gadus morrhua. 1884. 

 Rearing oysters fi'om artificially fertilized eggs, together with notes 

 on pond culture, etc. The Author. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 369 



Saranac Exiles. A winter's tale of the Adirondacks. Philada., 1880. 



The Author. 



Saussure, H. de. La question du Lac (Leman), 2me Partie. Geneve, 



1881-82. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Note sur le Cervus paludosus Desm. et les especes voisines. Geneve, 



1883. The Author. 

 Scheafer, P. W, and C. W. Report on coal lands, Hans Fork ai d Twin 



Creek, southwestern Wyoming Territory, 1883. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Schlesische Blinden-Unterrichts-Anstalt. 56er Jahresbericht, 18^3. 



The Institution. 

 Schmidt, Oscar. Die Saiigethiere in ihrem Verhiiltnisse zur Vorwelt. 



1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schneider, Dr. Zoologische Beitnige, Bd. I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schomliurgh, R. Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic 



Garden and Government Plantations during the year 1883. 



The Director. 

 Scudder, Samuel H. Triassic insects from the Rocky Mountains 1884. 



The Author. 

 Secretary of the Navy, Report of the, for 1883, vol. 2. The Department. 

 Seebohm, Henry. A history of British birds. Pts. 3 and 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Selenka, Emil. Studien iiber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Thiere. 2es 

 und 3es Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Th., 4er Bd. le 

 Abth., 2es H. Wilson Fund. 



Sergi, G. Un cranio della Necropoli di Villanova, presso Bologna 

 Langolo faciale ed un nuovo gonioraetro. 

 Liguri e cetti nella valle del Po. 

 Crani Italici del Piceno. 



Polimorfismo e aiiomalie delle tibie e dei femori degli Scheletri 



Etruschi di Bologna. The Author. 



Servain. Histoire des iiollusques acephales des environs de Frankfurt. 



1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sharp. Benj. Beitriige zur Anatomic von Ancylus fluviatilis O. F. Miiller 



und Ancylus lacustris Geoffroy. 1883. 



On the anatomy of Ancylus fluviatis O. F. Miiller and Ancylus 



lacustris Geof. 

 On the visual organs in Solen. 



On Semper's method of making dried preparations. The Author. 



Sbepaid, Charles Upham, .Jr. Meteoric collection of 1884. The Author. 

 Silliman, Benj. Sketch of the life and sciemific work of 



Sketch of the life and scientific work of Dr. John Lawrence Smith. 



1884. The Author. 



Smith, Eugene Allen. Geological Survey of Alabama. Report for the 



years 1881 and 1882. Angelo Heilprin. 



Smith, R. Angus. A centenary of science in Manchester. The Author. 



Smithsonian Institution. Annual report, 1882. The Institution. 



Smucker, Isaac. Mound-builders' work near Newark, Ohio. The Author. 



South Afiican Museum. Report of the Trustees for the year ei ding 31 



Dec, 1883. The Trustees. 



South Carolina. Resources and population, institutions and industries. 



Published by the State Board of Agriculture, 1882. Angelo Heilprin. 



Sowerby^ G. B. Thesaurus Conchyiiorum. Pts. 41 and 42 Wilson Fund. 



Standard Natuial History. Pts. 1-28. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Statistische Mittheilungen iiber den Civilstand der Stadt Frankfurt a. M. 



im Jahre 1883. 

 Stieler, Adolf. Haudatlas iiber alle Theile der Erde und iiber das Welt- 

 gebaude. Gotha. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Stein, Kitter v. Der Organismus der Infusionsthiere. 3e Abth. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Steiner, Lewis H. Annual address before the American Academy of 

 Medicine, 1879. Dr. R J. Dunglison. 



Stockton- Hougli, John. An inquiry concerning the relative influen e of 

 the sex of the foetus in utero on the mental, physical, pathological 

 and developmental conditions of the mother during ge^itation, lacta- 

 tion and subsequently. 1884. The Author. 

 Stow, J. P. South A.ustralia ; its history, productions and and natural 

 resources, 1883. The Author. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning, 4to, Bb, 3 ; C, 54, 55, 57. Svo, A a, 89, 

 90 ; A o, 7, 9 ; C, 53, 56, 58, 59, 60. With maps. 



Geological Survey of Sweden. 

 Switzerland. Beitraee zur geologischen Karte der Schweiz. 19er und 27er 

 Lief. Bern, 1883. Dr. F. V. ilayden. 



Taczanowski, Ladislas. Ornithologie du Peron. T. ler, 1884. 



L V. Williamson Fund. 



Taramelli, Torquato. Delia posizione stratigrafica delle Rocce Utiolitiche 



nell' Appennino. 1884. The Author. 



Taylor, Thomas. Naphthaline as an Insecticide. The Author. 



Thomas, Cha'les Herraon. Downward displacement of the traDsverse 



colon ; three cases, with autopsies. Tlie Author. 



Trembley, J. B. Report and statistics of the meteorology of the City of 



Oakland, Cal., for the yeais 1882 and 1883. The Author. 



Tryon, Geo. W.. Jr. Manual of Conchology, structural and systematic. 



Parts 21-24. The Author. 



Structui-al and Systematic Conchology. III. The Author. 



Tschermak, Gustav. Lehrbuch der Minei-alogie. 3e Lief. 



I. v. Williamson Fund. 

 Tschirch, A. Untersuchungen iiber das Chlorophyll. 



I. V. WilliauiSon Fund. 

 United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Report, June, 1882. 



Treasury Department. 

 United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Reports of tho Commis- 

 sioner for 1880 and 1881. The Commission. 

 United States Entomological Commission, Third Report, 1883. 



Department of Agriculture. 

 United States Geological Survey. Bulletin No. 1, 1883. 



Second annual report, 1880-81. Department of the Interior. 



University of Kiel. Forty-three philosophical and scientific theses. 



The University. 

 University of Pennsylvania. Catalogue and announcements, 1883-84. 



The Trustees. 

 University of Wiirzburg. Eighteen philosophical and scientific theses. 



The University. 

 Untersuchungen der deutschen Meere in Kiel. Vierter Bericht der Com- 

 mission. VII. bis Xl. Jahrg , 2. Abth. Berlin, 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Upton, Winslow. The solar eclipse of 1868. Essex Institute. 



Vogt, C, and F. Specht. Die Saugethiere in Wort und Bild. Lief. 21-28. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Vogt, Carl, and Emile Yung. Traited'anatpmie comparee pratique. 3e-5e 



Livre. I. V. Willi <mson Fund. 



Wahlstedt, L. J. Monografi ofver Sveriges och Norges Characeer. 1875. 



The Author. 



Waldeyer, W. Atla< der menschlichen and thierischen Haare sowie der 



S,hnlichen Fasergebild. Lahr, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1884,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



Watson, R. Boog. MoUuscaof H. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition. Parts 

 17, 18 and 20. 1883. The Author. 



Weisbach, Albin. Synopsis mineralogica. II. Aufl., 18S4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Weismann, Aug. Studies in the theory of descent. 2 vols., 1882. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wesleyan University. 12th annual report of the Curator of the Museum. 



1883. The Author. 



Whiteaves, J. F. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. of Canada. Mesozoic Fossils 



I and III, pp. 1-238. Paleozoic Fossils, III. The Survey. 



Wilcox, Jos. Notes on the geology and natural history of the west coast 



of Florida, 1884. The Author. 



Williams, Albert. Mineral resources of the United States, 1883. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Willson, E. B. Memoir of John Lewis Russell, 1874. Es.>-ex Institute. 



WoUe, Francis. Desmids of the United States and list of American 

 Pediastrums, with 1100 illustrations. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Women's Medical College of the New York Infirmary. Catalogue and 

 announcement. June, 1884. The College. 



Wood, Dr. H. C, and H. F. Formad. Memoir on the nature of diphtheria. 



The Authors. 

 Wood-Mason, J. Report on the tea-mite and the tea-bug of Asam. 1884. 



The Author. 

 Wright, H. Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. Circular of 

 Inquiry, 1883. The manuscripts of the Earl of Ashburnham. 



The Society. 

 Yale College. Catalogue of the officers and students, 1883-84. 



The College. 

 Yarrell, Wm. A history of British Birds. 4th ed. Parts 18-25, 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zincken, C. F. Die Fortschritte der Geologie der Tertiarkohle, Kreide- 

 kohle, Jurakohle und Triasekohle oder Erganzungen zu den Physio- 

 graphic der Braunkohle. Leipzig, 1878. The Author. 

 Zittel, Karl A. Handbuch der Palaeontologie. 2 Abth., 3 Lief., II, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoological Society of London. List of the vertebrated animals now or 

 lately living in the Gardens. 8th edition, 1883. The Society. 



Zoologischen Garten zu Hamburg, Fuhrer durch den. 



Das Aquarium des Zool. Garten The Zoological Society of Hamburg. 



Zoologischen Station zu Neapel. Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel 



und der Angrenzf nden Meeres Abschnitte. VII, IX and XI Monogr. 



1883-84. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande, n. f., 2er Bd. Catalog der 



Bibliothek. The Society. 



Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Verslagen en M»dedee- 



lingen. Afd. Letterkunde, II R., Deel 1-12. Afd. Naturkunde, II, 



R., Deel 18. 



Jaarboek, 1882. 



Processen-Verbaal, 1882-83. 



Verhandlingen. Afd. Naturk. Deel 23. Afd. Naturt . Deel 14. ' 



The Society. 

 Angers. Societe d' etudes scientifiques. 12e and 13e Annees. 

 Societe national d' Agriculture Sciences et Arts. 



Memoires. T. 24 and 25. The Society. 



Anvers. Societe de Geographic. Bulletin, IX, 1. The Society. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Augsburg. Naturhistorischer Verein, 27er Bericht. The Society. 



Auxerre. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles de rYonne. Bul- 

 letin, 'die Annee. 

 Baltimore. American Chemical Journal, V, 6 VI, 4. 



Johns Hopkins University. 

 American Journal of Mathematics, VI, 2— VII, 1. 



Johns Hopkins University. 

 Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, 

 III, 1. The University. 



Maryland Medical Journal, XII, 2. The Editor. 



Peabody Institute. 17th annual report. The Institute. 



Basel. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, VII, 2 mit Bihang. The Society. 

 Schweizerische palaontologische Gesellschaft, X. 



I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Batavia. Naturkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Naturkundig 



Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie. 8e Ser. Deel III, 1,2; IV, 



1-4; V, 1, The Society. 



Belfast. Naturalists' Field Club. Annual report. Series 2, Vol. II, Pt. 3, 



The Society. 

 Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, lw83-83. 



The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 48er Jahr., 4 H. — 49er Jahr.. 4 H. 



The Editor. 



Botanischer Jahresbericht, 8er Jahr., le and 2e Abtli., I and II ; 9er 



Jahr., I, 1, 2 ; II, 1, I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XXXV, 3 — XXXVI, 1. 



The Society. 

 Entomologischer Verein. Berliner entomologische Zeitschrift, 27er 

 Bd., 1 H.— 28 Bd., 1 H. The Society. 



Garten-Zeitung (Wittmack), 1883, 1-12. The Editor. 



Gesellschaft Naturforschende Freunde. Sitzungs-Berichte, 1883-84, 

 1 7. The Society. 



Jahrbiicher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik (Pringsheim), XIV, 3 — 

 XV, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturae Novitates, 1883, 21—1884, 20. ' The Publishers. 



Der Naturforscher, XVI, 40 -XVII, 26. The Editor. 



K. Preugsische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Bericht, 1836. 

 Monat^bericht, 1854, 1855, 1856, Dec. 1877. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 1883, XXXVIII— 1884, XXXIX. 

 Abhandlungeu, mathematische, 1883 ; physikalisch, 1883 ; Anhang, 

 1883. The Society. 



Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 1072-1082. 



The Society. 

 Besangon. Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, 1882, 1883. 



The Society. 

 Beziers. Societe d'etude des sciences naturelles. Bulletin, 6e An. 



The Society. 

 Birmingham. Philosophical Society. Proceedings, III, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Bislritz. Gevrerbeschule Jahresbericht, ler — 5i>r, lOer. The Society. 

 Bologna. Accademia delle Scienze. Memoiie 4 Ser., IV. The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir Mikro kopische Anatomic, XXII, 2 XXIV, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Natui'historischer Verein. Verhandlungen, 39er Jahr., le H — 41er 



Jahr., le H. The Society. 



Boideaux. Academic Natiouale des Sciences, Belles Lettrps et Arts. 



Actes, 43e Annee, 1-4 Tr. Tables historiques, etc. The Society. 



Societe Linneeune. Actes. T. 36. The Society. 



Societe des Sciences pi ysiques et naturelles. Memoires, 2e Ser., V, 3. 



The Society. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings, XTX, 1-3. 



The Society. 

 American Monthly Microscopical Journal, IV, 12. The Editor. 



The Auk, I, 1-4. The Editor. 



Literary News, V, 4-10. The Editor. 



Science Record, II, 2-12. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XXII, p. 225 — XXIII, p. 32. 

 Same, X, Nos. 2, 3, 4. 



Memoirs, III, 8-10. The Society. 



Zoological Society. Quarterly Journal, III, 1. The Society. 



Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic, 15er Bd., 1-3. The Society. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen, VI II, 2. 



The Society. 

 Brescia. Ateneo. Coramentari, 1883. The Society. 



Brisbane. Royal Society of Queensland. Proceedings, I, 1. The Society. 

 Bristol. Naturalists' Society. Pi'oceedings, IV, 2. The Society. 



Briiuu. Naturforschender Verein. Verhandlungen, XXI, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Bruxf lies. Academic Hoyale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts 

 de Belgique. Aunuaire, 1881-84. 

 Bulletin, 2me Ser., T. 50 ; 3me Ser., T. I -VII, 8. 

 Memoires. T. 43, 2e Partie, T. 44. 

 Memoires couronnes, 8vo, T. 31-35. 

 Memoires couronnes, 4to, T. 44. 



Tables, 1867 1830. The Society. 



Societe Beige de Microscopic. Bulletin, X, 1-11. 



Annales, T. VII and VIII. The Society. 



Socieie Entomologlque. Comtes-Rendu, Ser. Ill, Nos. 36, 37, 38, 40, 

 ■ 43, 46, 48, 49. 



Annales, T. 27 and 28. The Society. 



Societe Malacologique. Annales, XVII. 



Proces Verbaux, 4 Aout, 1882—1 Juil., 1883. The Society. 



Budapest. Gazette de Hongrie, IV, 6-28. Hungarian National Museum. 



Ungarische Akademie der Wissenschaften, mathematische und natur- 



wissenschaftliche Berichte aus Ungarn, I. The Society. 



Ungarische National Museum. Naturhistorische Hefte, VII. 



Buenos Aires. Sociedad Cieutifica Argentina. Anales, XVI, 5— XVIII, 3. 



The Society. 



Buffalo. Society of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, IV, 4. The Society. 



Caen. Acaderaie nationale des Sciences. Arts et Belles- Lettres, Memoires, 



1883. The Society. 



Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Proceedings, 1883, No. 7 — 1884, 



No. 5. 



Journal, Lll, Pt. 1, Nos. 3 and 4 : Pt. 2, Nos. 1-4, LIII ; Pt. 1, Nos. 



1 and 2 ; Pt. 2, Nos. 1 and 3. The Society. 



Cambridge. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, III, 3 and 4. 



The Society. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 27, 28 and 29. 



The University. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, X, 1-3 ; XI, 3 ; XII, 1. 



Bulletin, XC, 5 10. The Director. 



Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. 16th and 



17th annual reports. The Director. 



Cambridge. Science, Nos. 43-94. I. V. Williamt-on Fund. 



Cambridge, Eng'd. University, 13th Annual report of the Library 



Syndicate. The Authors. 



Canada. Royal Society. Proceedings and Transactions, 1882-83. 



The Society. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter, VII, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht, XXXt. The Society. 



Catania. Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Atti, 3a Ser., T. 16-17. 



The Society. 



Cedar Rapids. Iowa Agricultural College. Department of Entomology. 



Bulletin, No. 2. The College. 



Chicago. Academy of Sciences. Bulletin, I, 1-4. The Society. 



American Antiquarian, V, 4 — VI, 5. The Editor. 



American Chemical Review, III, 12. The Editor. 



Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, VIII, 3 — IX, 4. 



The Editor. 

 Norwegische Meteorologiske Institut. Jahrbuch 1881. The Director. 

 Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberue, XXVII, 2 - XXVIII, 1. 



The Editor. 



Videnskab Selskab. Forhandlinger, 1882. The Society. 



Cincinnati. Ohio Mechanics' Institute, Scientific Proceedings, II, 3. 



The Institute. 



Society of Natural History. Journal. VI, 4— VII, 3. The Society. 



Zoological -"^ociety, 10th annual report. The Society. 



Columbia. Uiiversity of the State of Missouri. Bulletin of the Museum, 



I, 1. The University. 



Congres international des Americanistes. Compte-rendu de la 5me 



Session. The Congress. 



Copenhagen. K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 1883, Nos. 2, 3 ; 



1884, No. 1. 



Skrifier, 6me Ser., II, 4, 5. The Society. 



Naturhistoriske Forening. Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1882, I ; 1883, 

 I. The Society. 



Naturhistoriske Tidsskrift, XIII, 3 ; XIV, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Societe Royale des Antiquaires du Nord. Memoires, n. s., 1880-81. 



The Society. 

 Cordoba. Academia nacional de Ciencias exactas. Actas, IV, 1 ; V, 1. 



Boletin, V, 1-4; VI, 1. 

 Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, VIII, 12 IX, 11. The Editor. 



Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften, n. f., VI, 1. 



The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Notizblatt, IV, Folge, 4, H. 



The Society. 

 Detroit. American Meteorological Journal I, 1, 2. The Editor. 



Dorpat. Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, VI, 3. 



Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv.-Ehst- und Kurlands, 2e Ser., IX, 5. 



The Society. 

 Dresden. K. Leop. Carol. -Deutscher Akademie der Naturforscher. Nova 

 Acta, Vol. 44. 



Leopoldina. H. 18. The Society. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis. Sitzungsberich e und Ab- 

 haudlungen, 1883 Jan. - 1884 Juni. The Society. 



S. K. Sammlung fiir Kunst und Wissenschaft. Bericht, 1880-81. 

 Mittheilungen, 1873. 



Katalog, 1874. The Director. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresberichte,. XVIII-XX. The Society. 



Dublin. Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Journal, XI (I), 1-XV I, 2. 



The Society. 



Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings, Science, IV, 1, 2. 



Transactions, Science, XXVIIl, 14-16. The Society. 



Diirkheim a. d. Haardt. Pollichia. Jahresbericht, 36-42. Beigabe zum 



40en. The Society. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 375 



Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceeding's, XV, 1. 



The Society. 

 Eoyal Physical Society. Proceedings, 1883-83. The Society. 



Royal Society. Proceedings. XI. XII. 



Transactions, XXX, 2— XXXII, 1. The Society. 



Scottish Natviralist, n. s. Nos. 3-6. The Editor. 



Elberfeld. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahresberichte, 6es H. 



The Society. 

 Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, 68er Jahresberichte. The Society. 

 Erlangen. Physikalisch-Mediciuische Societat, Sitzungsberichte 15es H. 



The Society. 

 Florence. Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano (Caruel), XVI, 1-4. 



The Editor. 



Societa Italiana di Anthropologia, Etnologia e Psicologia Comparata. 



Archivio, XIII. 3 ; XIV, 1. The Society. 



Folkestone. Natural History Society. First series, Oct., 1883— Aug., 1884. 



The Society. 



France. Association Pranqaise pour 1' Advancement des Sciences. Comp- 



tps Rendus, Ire-lle Session. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Frankfurt a. M. Aerziliche Verein. Jahresbericht, XXVII. The Society. 



Deutsche Malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbiicher, XI, 1-3. 



Nachrichtsblatt, 1884, 3-10. The Society. 



Frankfurter Verein fiir Geographic und Statistik. 46er und 47er 



Jahresberichte The Society. 



Neue Zoologische Gesellschaft. Der Zoologische Garten, XVIII, 5 ; 



XX, 3, 4, 11, 13; XXI, 9; XXII, 10; XXIII, 4, 6; XXIV, 1; 



XXV, 3. Dr. H. Bolau. 



Physikalischer Verein. Jahresbericht, 1882-83. The Society. 



Senkenbergisohe Naturfoi scheude Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, X III, 



3, 4. 



Bericht, 1883-83. The Society. 



Frauenfeld. Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 



H. ler-6er. The Society. 



Gand. Archives de Biologie (Van Beneden und Van Bambeke!, IV, 2 — 



V, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geneva. Recueil Zoologique Suisse (Fol. ), I, 1. The Editor. 



Revue Geologique Suisse (Faure), XIV. The Editor. 



Genoa. Museo civico di Storia Naturale. Annali, 1870, Nos. 1-6. 



The Director. 



Societa di Letture e Conversazioni Scientifiche. Giornale, VII, 12 — 



VIII, 11. The Society. 



Geimany. Gesellschaft Deutscher Naturforscherund Aerzte. Festschrift 



der 5fier Versammhing. The Society. 



Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie (Fittica), 1883, 



No. 1 ; 1883, No. 1. The Editor. 



Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur und Heilkunde, 23er Bericht. 



The ^ociety. 

 Glasgow. Natural History Society. Proceedings, V, 2. The Society. 

 Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XIV. The Society. 



GottiLgen. K. Gesellschaft der W issenschaften. Nachrichten. 1883. 



The Society. 

 Gotha. Dr. A. Petermann's Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes' geographi- 

 scher Anstalt, 1883, H. 11 ; 1884, H. 10. Ergiinzungsheft, 74er. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Graz. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 

 1883, Haiipt-Repertorium. The Society, 



Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XVI, 2. 



Bericht, 1883. The Society. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Halle a. S. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1881. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaften, LVI, 6 ; 4te, F. Ill, 1-3. 



The Society. 

 Hamburg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahresbuch, 1883 (Abstracts), 



The Society. 



Zoologische Gesellschaft. ler-22er Berichte. The Society. 



Hanover. Gesellschaft fiir M kroskopie. 2er .Tahresbericht. The Society. 



Harlem. HoUaadische Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. Programma, 



1883. The Society. 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives, XVIII, 2— XIX, 1. 



The Society. 



Heidelberg. Naturhistoricher Verein. Verhandlungen, n. F., 3er Bd., 



3es H. The Society. 



Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps - Societeten. Observations Meteoro- 



logiques, 1880. The Society. 



Sallskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica. Meddelanden, 9, 10. 



The Society. 

 Hermannstadt. Siebenbiirgischer Verein fur Naturwissenschaften. Ver- 

 handlungen und Mitttheilunsen, VII XXIX, XXXIV. The Society. 

 Innsbruck. Ferdinandeum. Zeitschrilt, 27er H. The Society. 



Jena. Medicinisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, 

 XVI, 4 XVIII, 1. The Society. 



Kansas City. The Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, VII, 8— 

 VIII, 7. • The Editor. 



Karlsruhe. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Verhandlungen, les H., 

 1864 9es H , 1883. The Society. 



Universitat. Verzeichnis-s, 1883, II-IV ; 1884, I. The Society. 



Klagenfurt. Landesmuseum von Kiirnten. Jahrbuch, 16er H. 

 Bericht, 1883. 



Diagramme der magn. u. meteor Beobachtungen, 1882-83. 



Carinthia, 1882 ; 1883 ; 188t, No. 9. The Editor. 



Konigsberg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, XXIV, 



1, 2. The Society. 



Lancaster. Linnean Society. Bulletin, 1-4. The Society. 



Lausanne. Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles Bulletin, No. 89. 



The Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual report, 1883-84. 



The Society. 



Yorkshire Naturalists' Union. Transactions, I-VII. The Society. 



Leiden Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging Tijdschrift, I, 1 ; 



III ; V ; Suppl. 1), I, 2. The Society. 



Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomic und Physiologic. Anatomische Abth., 1883, 



H. 4—1884, H. 6. Physiologische Abtheiliing, lb83, H. 4—1884, H. 5 



and Supplement B. Supplement Band, 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Botanische .lahrbiicher (Engler), V, 1; VI, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



International Zeitschrift fiir Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft ( Techner), 



I, 1. The Editor. 



Jahresberichte iiber die Fortschritte der Anatomic und Physiologie 



(Hofmann und Schwalbe). XI, 2 H. illfte, 1 Abth. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie. XXXI, 4 ;• XXXII, 1 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, XII, 9. 

 Bericht iiber die Verhandlungen, 1882. The Suciety. 



Morphologische Jahrbuch, IX, 2— X, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturtorschende Gesellschaft. Sitzungsbericht, 1S83. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Miueralogie (Groth), VIII, 4— 

 IX, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Zoologiscbe Station zu Neapel Mittbeilung, V, 1 und 2. 



Zoologische Jahrbericht, 1879, 1880, 1882, I-IV. The Director. 



Zooloffisciier Aiizeiger, (Carus). Nos. 153-180. The Editor. 



Leyden. Leyden Museum. Notes edited by H. Scblegel, I-VI. 



The Museum. 



Lille. Societe geologique du Nord. Annales, XI, 3. The Society. 



Lisbon. Associagao dos Engenlieiros Civis Portuguezes. Revista de 



Obras publicas e Minas. Nos. 16o-17ti. The Society. 



Liverpool. Free Public Library, Museum and "Walker Art Gallery. 29th 



and 30th Annual Reports. The Directors. 



Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. d^-^7. 



The Society. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Proceedings, 1879-1884. The Society. 



London. The Anglers' Note-Book and Naturalists' Record. 1884, Nos. 



2 and 3. The Editor. 



The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 1883, No. 72—1884, 



No. 83. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Astronomical Register. Nos. 252-263. I. V. Willarason Fund. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report, 53d 



Meetinjf. The Society. 



Chemical Society. Journal, Nos. 253-264. Supplement, Vols. XLIII 



and XLIV. The Society. 



Cosmos, No. 3. The Editor. 



Crystallological Society. Proceedings, 1877, 1 ; 1882, 1 and 2. 



fThe Society. 

 Curtis's Botanical Magazine, Nos. 1162-1172. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The Electrician. XII, 2— XIII, 26. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. 1883, No. 4—1884, No. 2. The Society. 



The Gardeners' Chronicle, n. s. Nos. 517-567. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine. Nos. 234-245. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 156-159. The Society. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip. Nos. 2:^8-239. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ibis, 5th Sen, I, 5— II, 8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. XVIII, 2 — XIX, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nos. 252 — 263. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Conchology. IV, 1-6. The Editor. 



Journal of Physiology (Foster), IV, 4 — V, 3, and Supplement to V. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Science. Nos. 120-131. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Knowledge. Nos. 105-157. The Editor. 



Linnean Society. Journal, Botany, Nos. 130-1-33 ; Zoology, Nos. 101 



and 102. 



Transactions, 2d Ser. Zoology, II, 9, 10 ; III, 1 ; Botany, II, 6 and 7. 

 List, 1883. 



Proceedings October, 1883. The Society. 



London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. 1883. No. 

 102—1884, No. 113. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland, Mineralogical 

 Magazine and Journal of the. Nos. 25-27. The Society. 



The Naturalist. Nos. 109-112. The Editor. 



Nature. Nos. 734-785. The Editor. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. Nos. 93-95. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, XV, 4 — 

 XVI, 3. The Society. 



Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, n. s., V, 11 — VI, 9. 



The Society. 

 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1884. 



Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, X, 2. The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, 2d Ser., Ill, 6 — IV, 5, 



The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, Nos. 227-231. 



Philosophical Transactions, Vol. 174, Nos. 2 and 'S. The Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist. January, 1884, 2d ser., Nos 4 and 5. The Editor. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, vol. 31. The Society. 



Society for Psychical Research. Proceedings, I, 1-6. The Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record, Nos. 191-202. 



The Editor. 

 Zoological Record, 1882 T V. Williamson Fund. 



Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1883, 3, 1884, Parts 1 and 2 

 Transactions, XI, 9- 

 Catalogue, 1883. 



List of Fellows, 1884, The Society. 



Zoologist, Nos 84-95 I. V Williamson Fund 



London, Ca. The Canadian Entomologist, XV. 10-XVI, 8. The Editor. 



Louvain. Universite Catholique. 17 theses. The University. 



Liibeck. Naturhistoiische Museum. Jahresbericht, 1853, 1854, 1856, 



1857, 1864, 1866, 1868-1870, 1873-1877, 1882, 1883. The Society. 



Llineburg. NaturwissenschaftlicLer Verein. Jahreshefte, V. The Society. 



Luxembourg. Institute Royal. Publications, XIX. The Society. 



Lyon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Leltres et Arts. Memoires, classes 



des sciences, XXVI. The Society. 



Societe d'Aj^riculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts Utiles Annales, 



5me Ser., V. The Society. 



Madrid. Memorial de Ingenieros y revista cientifico-militar, XXXVIII, 



22-24 ; XXXIX, I, 1. The Society. 



Mannheim Mannheim Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahresbericht, 1878-82. 



The Society. 

 Manchester. Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XX- 

 XXII. 



Memoirs, VII. The Society. 



Scientihc Students' Association, Annual Reports, 1862-1865, 1867- 

 1872, 1874, 1876, 1879, 1881-1883. 



Catalogue of Library. The Society. 



Marburg. Gesellschaft ztir Befordeiung der gesammten Naturwissen- 



schaften. Sitzungsberichte, 1882, 1883. The Society. 



Melbourne. Royal Society of Victoria. Transactions and Proceedings, 



XIX, XX. The Society. 



Metz. S c ete d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, 5me Cahier, 2e Partie. 



The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Ser Jahresbericht. , The Society. 



Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Anales, VII. The Editor. 



Museo Nacional. Anales, III, 5, 6. The Director. 



Revista Cientifica Mexicana, If, 1. The Editor. 



Socif-dad Mexicana de Hibtoria Natural. La Naturaleza, VI, 18 — 



VIL 1. The Society. 



Milan. Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola. Atti, VII. The Society. 



R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettre. Rendiconti, Ser. II, Vol. 



XV- XVI I. No. 16. 



Memorie, XV, 1, 2, 3 ; XVII, 4. The Society, 



R. Istituto technico superiore. Programma, 1883-84. The Society. 



Minneapolis. Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, II, 4. 



The Society. 



Modena. R. Accademia di Scienza, Lettere ed Arti. Memorie, Ser. Ill, 



Vol. II. . The Society. 



Mons. Societe des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut. 



M6moires et Publications, IV Ser., T. 7me. The Society. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Montpelier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres, Memoires de la Section 

 des Sciences, X, 2. The Society. 



Montreal. Canadian Record of Natural History and Geology, with Pro- 

 ceedings of the Natural History Society, I, 1. The Society. 

 Moscow, Societe Iinperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1882, Nos. 3 et 4; 

 1883, Nos. 2 et 3; 1884, Nos. 1 et 4. Beilage T. 57-59. The Society. 

 Miinchen. Gesellschaft fiir Anthiopologie, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. 

 Beitrage, V, 4, VI, 1. The Society. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math.- 

 phys. C'lasse, 1883, Nos. 1-3, 



Abhanrilungen, mathem.-physikal. Clnsse, XIV, 2, 3. The Society. 

 Miinster. Westfalischer Provinzial-Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst. 

 Jahresbericht, I, III, IV, V, XI. XII. The Society. 



Nancy. Societe des Sciences. Bulletin, Ser. 2, III, 15. The Society. 



Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklen- 

 burg. Archiv, 37er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, XIII. The Society. 

 New Haven. American Journal of Science. 1883, No. 156 ; 1884, No. 167. 



The Editor. 

 Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, VI, 1. 



The Society. 

 New Jersey Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 1884. The Society. 

 New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals II, 9, 13 ; III, 1-4. 



Transacticins, II, 1, 3-8. The Society. 



American Bookseller, XV, 3. The Editor. 



American Chemical Society. Journal, IV ; V ; VI, 1-4. The Society. 

 American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1883, No. 1 — 1884, No. 1. 



The Society. 

 American Museum of Natural History. Annual Report, 15th. 



Bulletin, No. 4. The Director. 



The Book Buyer, n. s., II, 1. The Editor. 



Forest and Stream XXI, 18 -XXIII, 17. The Editor. 



Library Journal. VIII, 9— IX, 10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Linnean Society. Transactions, II. The Society. 



Literary News, V, 1-11. The Editor. 



New York Medical Journal, XXXVIII, 22— XL, 21. The Editor. 



Medico-Legal Journal, II, 1, 2. The Editor. 



Popular Science Monthly, Jan. — Dec, 1884. The Editor. 



The Sanitarian, No. 172. The Editor. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, X, 10— XI, 9. The Society. 



Normal. Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. Bulletin, II, 1. 



The Director. 

 Padova. Societa Veneto-Trentina di Scienza Naturali. Atti, VII, 2. 



BuUetino, III, 1, 2. The Society. 



Palermo. II Naturalista Sicilian©, III, 3— IV, 2. The Editor. 



Societa di Scienze Naturali et economiche. Giornale, I-XIV. 



The Society. 

 Paris. Academie des Sciences. Comptes Rendus, Vols. 93, 94, 95 and 96. 



The Society. 

 Annales des Mines, 8me Ser., Ill, 3 — V, 3. 



Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologiques, XII-XV. The Editor. 



Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zoologie et Paleontologie, XV, 5 — 

 XVII, 2 ; Botanique, XVI, 6— XVIH, 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie Experimentale et generale, 1883, No. 3—1884, 

 ^No. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ecole polytechnique, S. 28m»*, 52e Cab. The Director. 



Journal de Conchyliologie, 3e Ser., XXII, 3— XXIV, 2. The Editor. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Journal de Micrographie, VIT, 11, 12 ; VIII, 1 and 2. The Editor. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Nouvelles Archives, 2me Ser., V, 2 ; 



Vr, 1. The Society. 



Le Naturaliste, Nos. 46-69. The Editor. 



Revue d' Ethnographic, I; II. 5— III, 3. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue Geographique internationale, Nos. 9G-107. The Editor. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 1874, No. 6, without plates. 



F. G. Schaupp. 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences, 1883, Nos. 11 and 12. The Editor. 

 Revue Politique et Literaire, 3e Ser., 3e An., Nos. 23-26. The Editor. 

 Revue Scientitique de la France et de I'etranger, 3me Ser. Ill, 21 — 



IV, 19. The Editor. 



Science et Nature, I, 1 50. The Editor. 



Societe d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, 3d Ser., X, 10— 4e Ser. I, 7. 



The Society. 

 Societe de Biologic. Compte Rendu des Seances, 7me Ser., Ill ; V, 



1-4, 6-35. The Society. 



Societe Entomologique de France. Annales, 6me Ser. II, 1-4. 

 Societe Geologique de France. Jjulletin, 3me Ser., XI, 7 ; XII, 1-7. 



The Society. 

 Societe Malacologique de France. Bulletins I, II, Announcement, 



By-Laws, etc. 



Annales de Malacologie, T, 4. The Society, 



Societe Mineralogique de Fr.uice. Bulletin VI, 7-VII, 7. The Society. 

 Societe Nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, 1883, No. 8- 



1884, No. 7. The Society. 



Societe Zoologique. Bulletin, 8er An., 3— 9e An. 2. The Society. 



Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1883, No. 3— 



1881, No. 2. 



Journal, IX. 1. Publication Committee. 



Report of Transactions, 1824. Dr A. E. Foote. 



American Entomological Society. Transactions, X, 3, 4. The Society. 



American Journal of Medical Science, Jan.-Oct., 1884. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy, 1883, XIII, 12—1884, XIV, 11. 



The Editor. 

 American Naturalist, XVII, 12 -XVIII, 12. The Editor. 



American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 31st annual 



mei ting. The Society. 



American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 114 and 115. 

 College of Pharmacy. Alumni Association, 20th annual report. 



The Society. 

 The Dental Cosmos, XXV, 12— XXVI, 11. The Editor. 



Engineers' Club. Proceedings, III, 5 — IV, 3 and supplement. 



The Society. 

 Franklin Institute. Journal, 3d Ser., Nos. 696-707. The Society. 



The Gardenei s' Mon hly, 1883, Dec— 1884, Nov. The Editor. 



Historical Society of tennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of His- 

 tory and Biogiaphy, VII, 4— VHI, 3. The Society. 

 Library Company of Philadelphia. Bulletin, July, 1884. The Directors. 

 Literary Era. II, 1-12. The Editor. 

 Mercantile Library, Bulletin, I, 7, The Directors. 

 Naturalists' Leisure Hour, Feb. — Dec, 1884. The Editor. 

 Papilio, IV, 1-6. The Editor. 

 Verein Kosmos. Jahresbericht, 1883, 1884. The Society. 

 Zoological Society. 12th annual report. The Society. 

 Pisa. Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bollettino Malacologico Italiano, 



X, Fogli, 1-8. The Society. 



Societa Toscana di ScienzeNaturali. Atti, 13 Gen., 1884 — Luglio, 1884. 



The Society. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



Portici. R. Scuola Superiore d'Agricoltura. Annuario IV, 1-3. 



The Director. 

 Poughkeepsie. Vassar Brothers' Institute, Transactions, II. The Society. 

 Prag. Lotos Verein. Jahrbuch fiir Naturwissenschaften, n. F., V, 1884. 



The Society. 

 Raleigh. Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society. Journal, 1883-84. 



The Society. 



North Carolina Department of Agriculture. Monthly Bulletin, March, 



1884. The Department. 



Regensburg. Zoologisch-mineralogischer Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt, 



3 . er Jahrg. The Society. 



Reichenbach i. V. Vo^tlandis-cher Verein fiir allgemeine und spezielle 



Naturkunde. Mittheilungen, 4es H., und wissenschaftliche Beilage. 



The Society. 

 Riga. Naturforscher-Vtrein. Correspondenzblatt, 26er und 27er Jahrg. 



The Society. 



Rio de Janeiro. Istituto Historico Geographico e Ethnographico do 



Brasil. XLIV 2, XLV. The Society. 



Observatoire Imperial, Bulletin astronomique et meteorologique, 1883, 



Nos. 8-12. The Director. 



Rochester. Society of Natural Sciences. Annual report, 1883. 



Tlie Society. 

 Ward's Natural Science Bulletin. Ill, 1. The Editor. 



Rome. R. Accadeuiia dei Lincei, Ser. 3a. Atti, VII, 15— VIII, I'i. 



The Society. 

 Soc'eta Geografica Italiana. BoUettiuo, Ser. II, Vol. 9, Ease. 2-9. 



The Society, 

 Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiana. Memorie, XII, 11 — XIII, 8. 



The Society. 

 Saco. York Institute. Publications, I, 1,2. The Society. 



Saint John. Natural Histoiy Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin, 3. 



Annual report, 1881. 

 St. Louis. Academy of Sciences. Transactions, IV, 3. The Society. 



St. Petersburg. Societas Entomologica. Horse, XVII. The Society. 



Phybikalische Ctntral-Observatorium. Annalen, 1882, 1 and 2. 



The Director. 



K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Repertorium fiir Meteorologie, 



VIII. The Society. 



Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta, "VJII, 2. The Society. 



Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, XIV, 7— XVI, 3. The Society. 



San Francisco. California Academy of Sciences. Bulletin, No. 1. 



The Society. 

 Semur. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles. Bulletin, 1881-82. 

 Siena. R. Accademia de Fisiocritici. Atti, Ser. 2a, II, 1 2 ; V ; VI ; VII. 

 Ser. 3a, II, 1, 2 ; III, 1-8. 

 Revista Scientiflca, VI, VII. 



Rapporti, I, 1, 2. The Society. 



Springfield. Illinois State Museum of Natural History, Bulletin, 1882, 



No, 2. The Society, 



Staunton, The Virginias, IV, 12— V, 10, The Editor. 



Stockholm. Entomologisk Tidskrift, IV, 1 -V, 2. The Editor. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademien. Ofversigt 40de Arg. 5 — 41e Arg. 3. 



Bihang, VIII, 1, 2. The Society. 



Humboldt. II, 12-in. 11. L V. Williamson Fund. 



Kosmos. VIII, 7—1884, II, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Minoralogie, Geologic und Paleoutologie. 1883, 

 II, 3—1884, II, 2, and III ; Beilage, Bd. 1. The Editor. 



V'lein fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirtemberg. Jahreshefte, 

 40er Jabresheft. The Society. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1884. 



Switzerland. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verbandlungen, 1883-83. 



The Society. 



Sydney. Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, VIII, 3 — 



IX, 2. The Society. 



Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, XVII. 



The Society. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Proceedings and Reports, 1883. 



The Society. 

 Throndhjem. K. N. Videnskabei s Selskab. Skrifter, 1881. The Society. 

 Topeka. Washburn Laboratory of Natural History, Bulletin, I, 1. 



The Director. 

 Torino. Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Atti, XVIII, 4— XIX, 4, 

 Memoria, Serie 2a, T. 34 and 35. 



II Primo Secolo. 1783-1883. The Society. 



Regio Osservatorio della Regia Universita. Bollettino, Anni 17 and 18. 



The Director. 

 Toronto. Canadian Institute. Proceedings, N. S., I, 5 — II, 3. 



The Society. 



Entomological Society. Annual Report, 1883. The Society. 



Toulouse. Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Letties. Me- 



moires, 8me Sier. V, 1, 2. The Society. 



Revue Mycologique, VI, 22. The Editor. 



Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Bollettino, VIII. 



The Society. 



Truro. Royal Institution of Cornwall. Journal, VIII, 1, 2. The Society. 



United States. American Association for the Advancement of Science. 



Proceedings, XXXII. 



Programme of the 31st and 32d meetings. The Society. 



American Society of Microscopists. Proceedings, 6th annual meeting. 



The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de I'Universite. Bulletin Meteorologique, XV. 



The Director. 

 Regia Societas Scientiarum. Nova Acta, 3d Ser., XI, 2. The Society. 

 Urbana. Central Ohio Scientific Association. Proceedings, I, 2. 



The Society. 



Venice. L'Ateneo Veneto, Ser. VIII, Vol. I, 4— II, 2. The Society. 



R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Aiti. Atti, Ser. 6a, T. I, 



Disp. 4— II, 2. The Society. 



Vienna. Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, XIII, 2 — XIV, 1. 



The Society. 

 Embryologische Institut der K. K. Universitat. Mittheilungen, II, 3. 



The Director. 

 K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, mathem.-na- 

 turw. Classe, 86 Bd., le Abth., I— V ; 2e Abth., II-V ; 3e Abth., III- 

 V ; 87 Bd., le Abth., I-V ; 2e Abth., IV ; 3e Abth., I-III. 

 Denkschiiften, 45er and 46er Bd. The Society. 



K. K. geologische Reicbsanstalt. Jahrbuch 1884, I-III. 

 Verhandlungen, 1883, No. 13—1884, No. 14. The Society. 



Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen (Tschermak), n. F., 

 V, 5 -VI, 3 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturwisseuschaftlicher Verein an der jUniversitat. Mittheilungen, 

 1882-1883. ' The Society. 



Wiener Illustrirte Garten Zeitung, 1883, No. 10—1884, No. 9. 



The Editor. 



K. K. zoologisch botanische Gesellschaft. Veihandlungen, XXVIII, 



3;i mit Beiheft. The Society. 



Zoologische Institut. Arbeiten, V, 2, 3. The Society. 




1884.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 383 



Washiugton. American (Monthly) Microscopical Journal, V, 1—11. 



The Editor. 

 Anthropological Society. Abstract of Transactions, II. The Society. 

 Philosophical Society. Bulletin, VI. The Society. 



United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, III, 18— IV, 29 etseq. Also, 

 III and IV complete. The Director. 



United States National Museum. Proceedings, VI, 16 - VII, 30. 



Department of the Interior. 



Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XVI. The Society. 



Westerns. Redogorelse for Hogre AUmauna Laroverket i Westeras, 



1883-84. The Westeras Gymnasium. 



Wiesbaden. Nassauischen Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahrbuch, 36er 



Jahr. The Society. 



Wilkes-Barre. Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. Publications 



(Proceedings) Nos. 1-8. The Society. 



Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, III, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Wurzburg. Botanisches Institut. Arbeiten, III, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, n. F., XVII. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 1883. The Society. 



Zoologisch-zootomischts Institut. Arbeiten, V, 1-4; VI, 1-3 ; VII, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, XI, 1, 2 ; XII, 1. 



The Society. 



York. Natural History Journal (and School Reporter), I, 1877 — VII, 



1883 ; VIII, 64-70, The Editor. 





INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 



1884. 



Abies 30, 93 



Acanthinio 167 



Acanthinion 122, 124 



Acanthocystis 293 



Acanthopterygii. 154 



Acanthurus." 103, 103, 227-231 



Acanti. 157 



Acentrachme 164 



Acer 81 



Achillea 86 



Achiius 45 



Aciaeta 218 



Aconituni 80 



Acronurus 229, 230 



Actaea 80 



Actseon 104 



Actinophrys 17, 293 



Actinosphsei'ium 293 



Adenocaulon 86 



Adiantum 90 



Agalena 138 



Agonus 103 



Agrostis 94 



Aira 95 



Alcyonella 213 



Alligator 47 



Allium 93 



Alnus 91 



Alopecurus 95 



Alutera 46 



Amelanchier 82 



Ammodyteiforraes 183 



Ammodytidse 181 



Ammonites 53, 54 



Amphileptus 51 



Amphisilidae 155 



Amphisile 163, 164 



AmphisilidsB 164 



Amphisilinae 164 



Amphisiloidei 164 



Amphiuma 362-273 



Auacantini 168 



Anacharis 37, 50 



Anaphalis 87 



Anguiliformes 177 



Anoplarchus 103 



Antennaria 87 



Antennarius 45, 46 



Apeltes 157 



Apeltinae 157 



Aphorisria 45 



Aphyostomes 162 



Aplysina 202 



Aplysinida 202 



Apocynum 30 



Apodes 167 



Apogon 99 



Apsilus 37, 39, 40, 50, 51 



Aquilegia 80 



Arabis 80 



Aracese 94 



Araliacese ." 85 



Arbutus 88 



Arcestes 54 



Archangelica 85 



Arctia 284 



Arenaria 81 



Arenosa 203 



Ai'gyrotaeninae 182 



Armeria 88 



Ai-nica 87 



Ascaltis 208 



Ascidia 310 



Aspidium 96 



Astasia 51 



Aster 13, 87 



(385) 




386 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



PAGE. 



Astragalus 82 



Ateleipodidse 182 



Atiactomia 157 



Atractosomes 157 



Atripex , . . 90 



Atropus 95 



Atta 61 



Attus 294 



Aulichthys 1 00 



Auliscops - 160 



Aulo hynchidse 154, 159 



Aulorliynchinse 160 



Aulorhynchoidae 159 



AulorhyDchus 155, 1 60 



Aulostoraa 161 



Aulostomateidje 160 



Aulostomatidae 1 55, 1 60 



Aulostomatoidei 160 



Aulostomia 161 



Aulostomidse . 154, l(iO 



Aulostomidea 154 



Axinella 205 



Axinellida 205 



Bahia 87 



Balistes 46, 99 



Barbero 228 



Batrachus 45 



Bdella 47 



Bellerophon 54 



Betula 91 



Betulacese 91 



Bibu'ida 202 



Biloculina 321 



Blenniidfe 169, 173 



Blennioidei. . . 180 



Blennius 103 



Boa 140 



Bombus 61 



Borraginacese 89 



Boschniakia 31, 89 



Bothrolsemus 128 



Brachyrhincus 98 



Branchiostoma 310 



Bregmacei'otidae 173 



Brodiaea 93 



Brosmiidse 171 



Brosminse 171 



Bi'osmophycinse 176 



Brosmophycis 175 



Brotula 169, 175 



Brotulidse 169, 175 



Biotulina 170 



Brotulinse 176 



Bi'otuloidca 175 



BrotulophididjB 176 



Brotulophis 176 



PAGB. 



Brunella 90 



Bryanthus 88 



Bulla 104, 110 



Busycon 1 92 



Bythitinae 176 



Cadulus Ill, 112 



Calcarea 208 



Caltha 80 



Campanula 87 



Camponotus 9 



Cancellaria 104 



Caprifoliaceae 86 



Caranx 98 



Carauxia 157 



Oarcharias 97, 98, 100 



Cardita 104 



Cardium 104 



Carex 94 



Carya 15 



Cas^iope 88 



Ca-siter ite 9 



Castanea 15, 30 



Castillija 89 



Catalpa 78 



Caudina 13 



Cavochalinida , 204 



Centaurea 201, 287 



Centrischini 161, 162 



Centrisci 162, 164 



Centivscidse 155, 162, 164 



Centriscnae 163 



Centriscoidei , 162 



Centriscops 163 



Centrjscus 163, 164 



Centrolophus 817 



Centronotides 157 



Ceijhalosomes 173 



Cerastium 81 



Ceratina 202 



Cerithium 105 



Cervus 119 



Cetengraulis 35 



Chsetodipterus 45 



Chsetodon 99, 102, 122, 124, 312 



Chalina 204 



Chalinida 204 



Chamaecyparis 92 



Chamoiliynchus 162 



Chenopodiacese 90 



Chiasmodontidae 183 



Chiasmodontinae , 183 



Chonnopoma 211 



Chonetes 54 



Chorizopia 167 



Chriomitra 233 



Chrysostromus 811 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



387 



PAGB. 



Ciconia 48 



Ciliatinae 172 



Cinua 286, 289 



Circsea 84 



('ladastris 118 



Clathria 204 



Clatbrina 208 



Clathrulina 17, 18, 19 



Claytouia 81 



Cliona 207 



Clupea 42 



Cnicus 87 



Coclileaiia 80 



Cochlespira. 107 



Ccecula 42 



Collomia 89 



Compositae 86 



Congrogadidse 169, 178 



Congrogadinae 178 



Congrogadus 179 



Conifeiae 92 



Conularia 54 



Coplis 80 



Corliis 104 



Corbula 104 



Cordylophora 218 



Coregonus 136 



Coruacese 85 



Cornulites . 148 



Cornus 85 



Corvina 98 



Corylus 16, 117 



Coryplioenidae 181 



Corypbsena . » 102 



Coryphene 316 



Cottus 103 



Crautzia 85 



Crassulaceae 84 



Crepidula 12 



Cristatella 193, 197, 198 



Crius 316 



Crotalus ^ 140 



Crucifeiae 80 



Cryptogramme 96 



Cucuibitacese 85 



■ Cupelopagus 87, 39, 40, 50, 51 



Cupulilei-se 92 



Cybium 232-235 



Cyclopterus 45 



Cylicbna. 104 



Oylindrella 211 



Cyperaceae . . . '. 94 



Cypraea. 104 



Cypi sedia 104 



Cystopteris 96 



Dahlia 15 



PAGE. 



Dentalium 112 



Descbampsia 95 



Deyeuxia 95 



Diotlon . 46 



Dictyocylindius 205 



Dictyop'bora 37, 39, 50, 51 



Distx)ma 47 



Ditrupa 112 



Dodocatbeon 88 



Doliodon 124 



Donatia 209 



Porosoma 42 



Drosera 84 



Droseracese 84 



Dryas 82 



Dules 98 



Dysidea 203 



Ecbinoclatbria 204 



Ecbinocystis . ,. 85 



Ecbinonemata 204 



Ecbiodou 175 



Ecpantberia 283 



Elymus 95 



Empetraceae 90 



Enipetrum 90 



Encbeliopbis 175 



Encbelyopbes 178 



Eugraulis 34, 35 



Epinephelus 98, 99, 102 



Epilobium 84 



Epi])begus 33 



Equisetaceae 95 



Equisetum 95 



Equus 23 



Erantbis 116 



Ericaceaea 88 



Erigeron 87 



Eriophorum 94 



Erysimum 80 



Escbara 13 



Esox 68, 74, 75, 182, 225 



Eucalia 158 



Eucalyptocrinus 148 



Euleptorbampbus 221 



Eumeces G6 



Euonymus 15 



Eupagurus 12 



Euphrasia 89 



Fascicolaria 190, 192 



Fatzia 85 



Festuca 95 



Fiatola 311 



Fierasfer 175 



Fierasferidffl ; 169, 178 



Fierasferina 178 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



PAGK. 



Filaria 47, 48 



Filices 96 



Fissurella 303 



Fistularia 161, 162 



Fistulariae 161 



Fistularidse 154, 160, 161, 162 



Fistularinse 162 



Fistularini 162 



Fistularioidei 161 



Formica 57, 59, 64 



Fragaria 82 



Fraxinus 88 



Fulgur ...12, 292 



Fungispongia 147 



Fusus 304 



Gadi 168, 171, 172 



Gadidae 168, 170, 171, 172 



Gadiformes 171 



GadinsB 171 



Gadini 170, 171 



Gadinia 170, 172 



Gadites 171 



Gadoidea 170, 171, 172 



GadoideaB 171 



Gadoides 170, 172 



Gadopsidse 183 



Gadus Ill 



Galeopsis 90 



Galeus 100 



Galium 86 



Gasterocaiithus 158 



Gasteropoda Ill 



Gasterostei 157 



Gasterosteidse 157 



Gasterosteinse 158 



Gasterosteini 157 



Gasterosteoidea 154, 157 



Gasterosteus 157, 158 



Gastropacha 286 



Gaultheria 88 



Gelsemium 14 



Gentiana 88 



Gentianacese 88 



Genypterus 178 



Geodina 208 



Geraniaceae 81 



Geranium 81 



Geum 82 



Giunotini 178 



Glaux 88 



Gloveria 286 



Glyceria 95 



Glyphidodon 99 



Gnaphalium 87 



Gobiesox 45 



Gordius 294 



PAGB. 



Gossypium 296 



Graminse 94 



GymnelinsB 180 



Gymnothorax 101 



Habenaria 93 



Halesia 32 



Halichondria 206, 208 



Haliophis 179 



Haliotis 303 



Harpyia 284 



Helianthus 15, 200 201, 287 



Hemibi-anchii 154 



Hemiramphus 98, 221-226 



Hepatus 229 



Heptranchias 100 



Heracleum 85 



Herpyllus 153 



Heteromeyenia .216, 217 



Heterostegina 190, 321 



Heuchera 84 



Hieracium 14, 87 



Hierochlce 95 



Hippocampidae 166 



Hippocampus 103 



Higginsia 205 



Hircinia 203 



Hircinida 203, 208 



Holcus. 95 



Holacanthus 1 02 



Holobranches 1 67 



Holorhaphidota 206 



Hoiikenya . 81 



Hordeum 95 



Hybocrinus 145 



Hypericacese . . 81 



Hypericum 81 



Hyijoramphus 222 



Hyportliodus 98 



Hypostomides 166 



Impatiens. 81 



Iridaceae 93 



Isesthes 103 



Isodictya 206 



Isodictyosa 206 



Isuius 100 



Juglans 16 



Jugulares 167 



Juncacese 94 



Juncus 94 



Kalmia. . 



Labiatae 

 Lacerta . 



90 

 66 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



389 



PAOE. 



Lamna 100 



Lathyrus . 81 



Lasiocampa 286 



Ledum 88 



Leguminosae 83 



Leiurus 158, 316 



Lemna 17 



Lentibulariacese 90 



Leontodon 87 



Lepidolepridse 174 



Lepidosomatidse 174 



Lepidosteus 101 



Leptophidium 178 



Libinia 12 



Lichia 128 



Ligusticum 83 



Liliaceas. 93 



Liliura 298 



Limnias 214, 218 



Limulus. 13 



Lingula 148 



Linusea 86 



Linum 33 



Liquidamber 293 



Lirus 316 



Littorina 292 



Lomaria 96 



Lonicera 86 



Lophionotes 173 



Lophius 45, 46 



Lophoteryx 285 



Lotes 168 



Lotinae 171 



Lotini 171 



Loxophyllum 51 



Lumbriculus 260 



Lupinus 82 



Lutjauus 45 



Luzula 94 



Lycenchelys 180 



Lycocara 180 



Lycodes 180 



Lycodidse 179 



Lycodinse 180 



Lycodoidea 179 



Lycodonus 180 



Lycodopsis 180 



Lycopodiacese 96 



Lycopodium 96 



Lycosa 138 



Lygosoma 66 



Lysichitou 94 



Machaerium 179 



Macrorhamphosida) 156, 162 



Macrorhamphosus 163 



Macrouriformes 174 



PAGE. 



Macrourini 174 



Macruridse 168, 173, 174 



Macruroidea 170 



Mactra 10, 13 



Madia 87 



Malacopterygii 168 



Malthe 45, 98 



Malvaceae 81 



Manayunkia 21, 30, 48, 49, 218 



Mastodon 23 



Megalops 43 



Melongena 190 



Menobranchus 263-273 



Menopoma 262-374 



Mentha 90 



Menziesia 88 



Merluccia 171, 173 



Meiluccnae 171, 173 



Merluciidae 171, 173 



Meiluciinae 178 



Mertensia 89 



Meyenia 213, 216, 217 



Meti-osomes 170, 172 



Meyenia 28, 184 



Micaria 152, 153 



Micromeria 87, 90 



Mimulus 89 



Mitchella 298 



Modiola 12 



Moneses ...... 88 



Monotropa 31 



Montia 81 



Muraena 101, 804 



Mya 10, 12, 108 



Mylodon 23 



Myrmellon 59 



Myrophis 44 



Mytilis 10, 12 



Myxena 309 



Nabulus : 87 



Naidaceae 94 



Nassa 12, 804 



Nasturtium 80 



Natica 12 



Navarretia 89 



Neillia 82 



Niho 104 



Nummulites 190, 321 



Nuttallia 83 



(Enanthe 85 



Ofidiina 177 



Oleaceae 88 



Onagraceae 84 



Onchidium 308 



Oninae 173 




390 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



PAGE. 



Operculina 323 



Ophichthys 43, 101 



Ophididc-e 177 



Ophidiidffi 169, 176, 177, 178 



Ophidiina 177 



Ophidiilortnes 177 



Ophidiini 177 



ophidinae 177 



Ophidioidea 175 



Ophidioidei 177 



Ophidium 175, 178 



Ophidonidse 177 



Opisthobi-anchiatae 110 



Opisthoneraa 42 



Opunt a 15 



Orbitoides 190, 321 



Orchidacese ^ 93 



Orthichthyinse 103 



Orthichthys 163 



Osmerus 131 



Ostrea 10, 12, 104, 301 



Oxytropis 82 



Palinurichthys 316 



Palinurus 316 



Paludicella . .30, 213, 218, 219 



Pammelas 316 



Parantbias 98 



Paraspongia 202 



Pavnassia 84 



Pam 312 



Pasitbea 104 



Paiella 302, 303 



Pecten 104, 190, 302 



Pedicularis 89 



Pectinatella 195, 196, 197, 218 



Pegasi 166 



PegasidsB 165 



Pegasini 1 66 



Pegasoidei 166 



Pentastomum 140 



Peprilus 311-313 



Perca 99 



Percoides 157 



Peristerite 215 



Pescador 42, 46 



Pezomachus 152 



Pbegopteiis 96 



Phillipsia 54 



Pbleum 95 



Pbycidse 171 



Phycinse 171 



Physoclysti 168 



Picea 92, 117 



Pinguicula 90 



Pinus 92, 295, 296 



Plautaginaceae 90 



FAGK. 



Plartago 90 



PI atanus 1 4, 1 1 7 



Platyonichus 12 



Pleurotoma 104, 106, 107 



Plumatella 218 



Plumbagiuacese 8 < 



Poa 95 



Polemoniacese 89 



Polycanthus • 159 



Polygonacese 90 



Polygonum 90 



Polypodium 96 



Polyprion 99 



Polyptericbtbys 161 



Pomaoantbus 102 



Pomachia. . 1 66 



PoroDOtus 311, 314 



Portulacacese 81 



Potamogeton 50 



Potentilla 83 



Primula 88 



Primulaceae 88 



Prinos 298 



Prionotus 103 



Pristis 101 



Productus 54 



Promicropterus 99 



Prosartes 93 



Proteus 308, 309 



Prunus 83 



Psammonemata .' 202 



Pseudopriacantbus 98 



Psoralea 82 



Pteridium 175 



Pteris 96 



Pteropoda 110 



Pygosteus 158 



Pyretbrum 87, 95 



Pyrola 88 



Pyrula 104 



Pyrus 82 



Pyxicola.. 214, 218 



Quercus 30, 92 



Quinqueloculina 321 



Rana 273 



RanicepitidsB 173 



Ranunculacese 80 



Ranunculus 80 



Ranz^-nia 100 



Rapbyrus 207 



Reniera 205, 206 



Renierida 206 



Rbampbosidse 165 



Rvipbidiopbrys 293 



Rbapbidonemata 204 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



391 



PAGK. 



Rhea 47 



Rhinobatus 43 



Rhombus 311-314 



Rhypticus 99 



Ribes 84 



Richardia 142 



Rosa 14, 83 



Rosacese 82 



Rotalia 23 



Rotifer 260 



Rubiacese 8(i 



Rubus 14, 83 



Ruraex 90 



Sagina 81 



Salicacese 91 



Sdlix 91, 151 



Salmo 181 



^5alpa 113 



Sambucus 80 



Sanguisorba 84 



Sanicula 85 



Saphindacese 81 



barcodes 3 1 



Saurus 131 



Saxicava 108 



Saxifraga 84 



Saxifiagacese 84 



Sceliomiuse 295 



Wciaena 102 



Scirpus 94 



Scomber 233 



Scomberjdae 161 



Scomberoides 157 



Scomberomorus 232-235 



Scorpaena 45, 98, 99 



Scrophularia 89 



Scrophulariacese 89 



Sc.\ phobrancbii 108 



S^cytalina 179 



Sedum 84 



iSenecio 87 



Serpula 13 



Seserinus 311, 313 



Sidalcea 81 



Sidera 42 



Sigaretus 104 



Siphonostomes 161 



Si phostoma 45 



Siphostomia 161, 162 



Sirembinae 170 



Sisyrinchium 93 



Sium " 85 



Smerinthus 283 



Sniilaciua 98 



Solarium 104 



Solen 10, 302 



PAGE. 



Solenostomus 161, 162 



Solidago 13, 87 



Sonchus 87 



Squalus 97 



Spcrgula 81 



Spherionidi 166 



Sphseroidina 321 



Sphyr^na 67-75, 101 



fepilosoma 284 



Si)inachia 155, 159 



Spi iiachianae 159 



Spinachiinse 159 



Spiraea 83 



Spirauthes 93 



Spirogyra 37 



Spiroculina 321 



Spirophyton 144 



Spondylus 302, 303 



Spongelia 203 



Spongilla 28, 215, 217 



Stachys 90 



Stellaria 81 



Stereolepis 99 



Sternopygii 1 68 



Stictopora 146, 147 



Stolephorus 34, 35 



Streptopus 93 



Strix 47 



Stromateidae 311 



Stromateus 45, 31 1-314 



Sternoptyx 312 



Subbranchiani 168 



Suberites 206 



Symphoricarpus 86 



Symplocos 1 17 



Syngnathida3 166 



Synodus 180-186 



Tachynotus 45 



Taenia 137 



Tapirus 119 



Taraxacum 87 



Taxaceae 92 



Taxus 92 



Telliraa 84 



Terebra 1C5 



Tethya 208 



Tetrodon 99, 100 



Tetrapodes 167 



Textularia 23 



Teuthis 227-231 



Thuja 93 



Tiai ella 84 



Tibiclla 110 



Tolieldia 93 



Tornatella 104 



Trachelius 51, 52 




392 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1884. 



PAGE. 



Trachinia 174 



Tiachinidi 173 



Trachiiiocephalus 131 



Trachynotus ..101, 121-129 



Triacrinus 144-146 



Trientals 88 



Ti-ifolium 82 



Trigla 99 



Triglidse 157 



Triglochin 94 



Tiiloculina 321 



Trisetum 95 



Trisotc opis 102 



Trochita 104 



Tseudtsuga 93 



Tsuga 93 



Tuba 204 



Tiibella 216, 217 



Tardus 228 



Turris 106 



UmbellifersB 85 



Urnatella 29, 218, 283 



PAGE. 



Uronectes 180 



Uiosphenidse 165 



Vacciniuin 88 



Venus 10, 12, 301 



Veronica 89 



Viburnum 86 



Vicia 82 



Viola 81 



Violacese 81 



Vomer 98 



Xenocephalidae 182 



Xenocephaliformes , 182 



Xiphoides 177 



Zaphrentis 54 



Zeidae 157 



Zinnia 210 



Zircon 214 



Zoarces 169, 179 



Zoarcbidae 179 



Zoarcinse 180 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



398 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Announcement of 



Announcement of 



Report of the Cura- 

 8. Vaux Collect 



Additions to the Library, 356. 



Additions to the Museum, 351. 



Amendments to By-Iiaws, Chapter 

 I, Art. 6, and Chapter XVI, Art. 

 4, 261. 



Arango, Rafael. Descriptions of new 

 species of terrestrial mollusca of 

 Cuba, 113. 211. 



Audenried, J. T. Announcement of 

 death of, 66. 



Bayard, C. P. 

 death of, 282. 



Bentliam, Geo. 

 death of, 236. 



Binder, .Jacob. 

 tor of the Wm 

 tions, 3b 6. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 338. 



Botanical Section, report of, 342. 



Brinton, D. 6. Inaugural Lecture, 

 113; Tunisian Flints, 219 ; On the 

 Cuspidiform Petroglyphs, or so- 

 called Bird-track Rock-sculpture 

 of Oliio, 260, 275 ; Impression of 

 the Figures on a Meday Stick, 278 ; 

 Fired Stones and Prehistoric Im- 

 plements, 279 ; A Glacial Pebble, 

 299 ; Report of the Professor of 

 Ethnology and Archaeology, 348. 



Buckley, Dr. S. B. Announcement 

 of death of, 66. 



By-Laws, amendments to Chapter 

 I. Art. 6, and Chapter XVI, Art. 

 4, 261. 



Carter, Henry J. Catalogue of 

 Sponges collected by Mr. J. Will- 

 cox, on the West Coast of Florida, 

 187, 202, 237. 



Chester, F. D. The Geology of Del- 

 aware ; Laurentian, Palaeozoic and 

 Cretaceous areas, 200. 236. 



Claghorn, Jas. L. Announcement 

 of death of, 215. 



26 



Conchological Section, report of, 339. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 326. 



Curators, report of, 330. 



DoUey, Chas. S. On the Process of 

 Digestion in Salpa, 113. 



Elections during 1884. 349. 



Elwyn, Dr. A. L. Announcement 

 of death of, 66. 



Engleniann, Geo. Announcement of 

 death of, 30. 



Entomological Section, report of, 

 341. 



Farnum, J. Edwards. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 282. 



Fooie, A. E. A Large Zircon, 214. 



Ford, John. Embryology of Ful- 

 g'lr, etc., 292. 



Fordice, Morton W. A Review of 

 the American species of Stoma- 

 teidse, 299, 311. 



Foulke, Sara G. Some Phenomena 

 in the Life History of Clathrulina 

 elegans, 9, 17; On a New Species 

 of Rotifer, of the Genus Apsilus, 

 28, 37 ; Some Notes on Manayuu- 

 kia speciosa, 48 ; Dictyophora as 

 Apsilus vorax, 51 ; A New Species 

 of Trachelius, 51. 



General Index, 393. 



Gill, Theo. On the Mutual Rela- 

 tions of the Hemibranchiate Fish- 

 es, 151, 154 ; On the Anacanthine 

 Fishes, 151, 167. 



Gray, Asa. Flora of North America, 

 13 ; Some Notes on the Movements 

 of the Androecium in Sunflowers, 

 279, 287. 



Guyot, Arnold. Announcement of 

 death of, 30. 



Haines, Wm T. 

 death of, 28. 



Hand, .Tames C. 

 death of, 20. 



Announcement of 

 Announcement of 




394 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1884. 



Heilprin, Angelo. On an Ammonite 

 from the Carboniferous Formation 

 of Texas, 47, 53 ; Tlie Tertiary 

 Geolofry of Eastern and Soutbern 

 United States, 47 ; Antiquity of 

 Implement-making Man, 220 ; On 

 a Remarkable Exposure of Colum- 

 nar Trap near Orange, N. J,, 298, 

 318 ; Note on some new Forami- 

 nifera from the Nummulitic For- 

 mation of Florida, 298, 321 ; Re- 

 port of the Curators, 330 ; Repoi't 

 of the Professor of Invertebrate 

 Paleontology, 345. 



Henszey, Wm. C. Report of the 

 Treasurer, 333. 



Hess, Robert J. Report of the Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 339. 



Horn, Geo. H. Report of the Cor- 

 responding Secretary. 326. 



Index to Genera, etc.. 385. 



Jordan, David S. List of Fishes 

 from Egmont Key, Florida, in the 

 Museum of Yale College, with De- 

 scriptions of two new Species, 28, 

 42 ; Notes on Species of Fishes 

 improperly ascribed to the Fauna 

 of North America, 66, 97. 



Leidy, Joseph. Ant infected with 

 a Fungus, 9 ; Cassiterite from 

 Black Hill, 9 ; The New Jersey 

 Coast after the Storm of Jan. 8, 

 1884, 12; Fossil Bones from Lou- 

 isiana, 22 ; Foraminil'era in the 

 Drift of Minnesota, 22 ; Distoma 

 and Filarise, 47 ; Dictyophora as 

 Apsilus vorax, 50 ; On Eumeces 

 chalcides, 66 ; Vertebrate Fossils 

 from Florida, 118 ; A rare Human 

 Tapeworm. 137; Pentastomum 

 proboscideum, 140 ; Organisms in 

 Ice, 260 ; Report of the Curators, 

 332. 



Lewis, H. Carvill. A Pi osph ores- 

 cent Variety of Limestone, 10 ; 

 Volcanic Dust from Krakatoa, 185; 

 Report of the Professor of Miner- 

 alogy, 346. 



Librarian, jeport of, 328. 



Library, additions to, 356. 



McCook, Rev. Henry C. The Rufous 

 or Thatching Ant of Dakota and 

 Colorado, 50, 57 ; How Lycosa 

 fabricates her round Cocoon, 138 ; 

 Note on the Amphibious Habit of 

 Lycosa, 140 ; A Spider that makes 

 a Spherical Mud-daub Cocoon, 151; 



Note on the Intelligence of a 

 Cricket parasitised by a Gordius, 

 293 ; A new Parasitic Insect upon 

 Spider Eggs, 294. 



Meehan, Thomas. Botanical Notes ; 

 Double Flowers in Gelsemium 

 nitidium, Euonymus Japonicus, 

 Development of Fruit of Opuntia, 

 Helianthus tuberosus, Carya gla- 

 bra, 14 ; The Longevity of Trees, 

 30 ; Parasitism in Boschniakia 

 glabra, E. Meyer, 31 ; Variation in 

 Halesia, 3i ; Catalogue of Plants 

 collected in July, 1883, during an 

 Excursion along the Pacific Coast 

 in Southeastern Alaska, 56, 76; 

 Botanical Notes : Evolution of 

 Heat in Plants, Relation of Heat 

 to the Sexes of Flowers, Specific 

 Difi'erences in Picea nigra, the 

 Flowers of Platanus, Variation in 

 Symplocos fcetidus, Sugar in Cla- 

 dastris tinctoria, 116 ; The Natuie 

 of a Fasciated Branch, 140 ; On 

 Rapid Changes in the History of 

 Species, 142 ; Opposite Leaves in 

 Salix nigra, 151 ; On Elasticity in 

 the filaments of Helianthus, '-iOO ; 

 Sexual Characters in Zinnia, 210 ; 

 On derivation in Pinus edulis and 

 Piuus monophylla, 295 ; Immedi- 

 ate Influence of Pollen on Fruit, 

 297 ; Report of the Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 343. 



Meek, Seth E. A Review of the 

 American Species of the Genus 

 Synodus, 113, 130. 



Meek, Seth E., and Robert Newland. 

 A Review of the American Species 

 of the genus Sphyisena, 56, 67 ; A 

 Review of the Ameiican Species of 

 Scomberomorus, 219, 232. 



Meek, Seth E., and David K. Goss. 

 A Review of the American Species 

 of the genus Trachynotus, 113, 

 121 ; A Review of the American 

 Species of the genus Hemiram- 

 phus, 219, 221. • 



Meek, Seth E., and Martin L. Hoff- 

 man. A Review of the American 

 Species of the genus Teuthis, 219, 

 227. 



Meyer, Otto. Notes on Tertiary 

 Shells, 66, 104. 



Mineialogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 345. 



Museum, additions to, 351. 



Nolan, Edw. J. Report of the Re- 




1884.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



395 



cording Secretary, 323 ; Report of 

 the Librarian, 328. 



Officers lor 1885, 349. 



Osborn, Henry F. Preliminary Ob- 

 servations on the Brain of Meno- 

 poma, 260, 263. 



Potts, Edvr. Note on Manayunkia 

 speciosa, 21 ; Fresh-water Sponges 

 as Improbable Causes of the Pol- 

 lution of River-water, 28 ; Some 

 modifications observed in the form 

 of Sponge Spicules, 184 ; On a sup- 

 posed new Species of Cristatella, 

 185, 193 ; On Paludicella erecta, 

 213 ; On the wide Distribution of 

 some American Sponges, 215 ; On 

 the Minute Fauna of Fairmount 

 Reservoir, 217 ; An unfamiliar 

 Rhizopod, 292. 



Poultney, Chas, W. Announcement 

 of death of, 236 



Price, Eli K. Announcement of 

 death of, 282. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleontol- 

 ogy, report of, 345, 



Professor of Mineralogy, report of, 

 346. 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 

 report of, 347. 



Professor of Ethnology and Archae- 

 ology, report of, 348. 



Putnam, F. W. Indian Mounds on 

 the Miami River, 20. 



Rand, Theo. D. Report of the Min- 

 eral ogical and Geological Section, 

 345. 



Randolph, N. A. A Preliminary 

 Note on a Reaction common to 

 Peptone and Bile salts, 115 ; On 

 the Digestion of Raw and of Boiled 

 Milk, 120; On the Behavior of 

 Petrolntum in the Digestive Tract, 

 278, 281 ; Cutaneous Absorption of 

 Nicotine, 280. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 323. 



Redfield, J. H. Report of the Bo- 

 tanical Section, 342. 



Repot t of the Recording Secretary, 

 323. 



Report of the Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 326. 



Repoit of the Librarian, 328. 



Report of the Curators, 332. 



Report of the Treasurer, 333. 



Report of the Curator of the Wm. 

 S. Vaux Collections, 336. 



Report of the Biological and Micros- 

 copical Section, 338. 



Report of the Conchological Section, 

 339. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 341. 



Repoit of the Botanical Section, 342. 



Reiiort of the Mineralogical and 

 Gei 'logical Section, 345. 



Report of the Professor of Inverte- 

 brate Palaeontology, 345. 



Report of the Professor of Miner- 

 alogy, 346. 



Report of the Professor of Inverte- 

 brate Zoology, 347. 



Repoi t of the Professor of Ethnology 

 and Archaeology, 348. 



Ridings, James 11. Report of the 

 Entomological Section, 341. 



Ringueberg Eugene N. S. New 

 Fossils from the Four Groups of 

 the Niagara Period of Western 

 New York. 120, 144. 



Roberts, S. R. Report of the Con- 

 chological Section, 339. 



Rogers, Robt. E. Announcement 

 of death of, 217. 



Rothrock, J. H. Relation of Medul- 

 lary Rays to the Strength of Tim- 

 bers, 14. 



Schaeffer, W. L. Announcement of 

 death of, 215. 



Scribner, F. Lamson. Observations 

 on Cinna, with Description of a 

 New Species, 279, 289. 



Sharp, Benj. Visual Organs of 

 Lamellibranchs, 10 ; On Semper's 

 Method of making Dried Prepara- 

 tions, 20, 24 ; Introductory Lec- 

 ture, 66 ; Homologies of the Ver- 

 tebrate Crystalline Lens, 297, 300 ; 

 Report of the Professor of Inver- 

 tebrate Zoology, 347. 



Strecker, Herman. Descriptions of 

 New Species of North American 

 Heterocera, 279, 283. 



Swain, Jos., and SetliE. Meek. Notes 

 on a Collection of Anchovies from 

 Havana and Key West, with an 

 account of a New Species, Stole- 

 phorus eurystole, from VVood's 

 Holl, Mass., 28, 34. 



Treasurer, Report of, 333. 



Weber, Robt. L. Announcement 

 of death of, 297. 



Willcov. Jos, Notes on the Geology 

 and Natural History of the West 

 Coast of Florida, 184, 188. 



Wm. S. Vaux Collections, Report (-f 

 Curator of, 336. 





Proc. Acad Nat. Sci. Philad'A, i 



PL VII. 



SCRIBNER ON CINNA. 





Proo. A. N. S. I=>l-iiUi. 1SS4. 



1^1. VI IF. 





PROCEEDING-S 



d 



^dt\\\i of |iat«tci( ^txtwm 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT I.— JANUARY— APRIL, 1884. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



m. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Oor. of 19th and Kace Streets. 

 1884. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1881. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to subscribers ; and to others, 

 $12.50 per volume, or $i.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America. 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1356, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1867 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.76 per volume. 



The Third Series op the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which thirteen volumes were completed Dee. 31, 1883), is published at $6 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.26. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices aflBxed: 



Description op Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.60. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph op the Fresh Water T^nivalve Mollusca op the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid.e (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American AVriters on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.76. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D, 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis op Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $6. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of tlie Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edwakd J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets, 



May, 1884. 





COISTTKNTS. 



Leidt, Joseph, M. D. Ant infected with a Fungus,. .... 9 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Cassiterite from Black Hills, Dakota, ... 9 

 Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Visual Organs of Lamel 11 branchs, ... 10 

 Lewis, H. Carvill. A Phosphorescent Variety of Limestone, . . 10 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. The New Jersey Coast after the btorm of January 



8, 1884, 13 



Gray, Dr. Asa. Flora of North America, 13 



RoTHROCK, J. H., M. D. Relation of Medullary Rays to the Strength of 



Timber, ............. 14 



Meehan, Thomas. Botarical Notes.— Double Flowers in Gelseminum 

 nitidum ; Euonymus Japonicus ; Development of Fruit of Opuntia ; 



Helianthus tuberosus ; Carja glabra, 14 



FouLKE, Sara Gwendolen. Some Phenomena in the life-history of Clath- 



rulina eegans, • . 17 



Putnam, F. ^V. Indian Mounds on the Miami River, . . . .20 

 PoTTS, Edward. Note on Manayunkia speciosa, . .... 21 

 Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Fossil Bones from Louisiana, .... 22 

 Leidy, Joseph M. D. Furaminifera in the Drift of Minnesota, . . 22 

 Shakp, Benjamin, M. D. On temper's Method of making Dried Prepa- 

 rations .... 24 



Potts, Edavard. Fresh-water Sponges as improbable Causes of the Pol- 

 lution of Rivei'-water, 28 



Meehan, Thomas. Indian Use of Apocynum cannabinum as a textile 



fibre, 30 



Meehan, Thomas. The Longevity of Trees, dO 



Meehan, Thomas. Paiasitism in Boschniakia glabra E. Meyer, . . 81 



Meehan, Thomas. Variation in Hale.sia, 32 



Swain, Joseph and Seth E. Meek. Notes on a Collection of Anchovies 

 from Havana and Key West, with an Account of a new Species (Stole- 

 pboivis eurystole), from Wood's Holl, Mass., ..... 34 



Foulke, Sara Gwendolen. On a New Species of Rotifei", of the Genus 



Apsilus. (Plate I), ' 37 



Jordan, David. List of Fishes from Egmont Key, Florida, in the Museum 



of Yale College, with description of two new species, . . . .42 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Distoma and Filarise, 47 



FouLKE, Sara Gwendolen. Some Notes on Manayunkia speciosa, . 48 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Dictyophoi a as Apsilus vorax, .... 50 

 Foulke, Sara Gwendolen. A new species of Trachelius, ... 51 

 Heii.prin, Angklo. On a Cai'bunifemus Ammonite fiom Texas, . . 53 

 McCooK, Rev. Henry C, D. D. The Rufous or Thatching Ant of Dakota 



and Colorado, ' • . . .57 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. On Eumeces chalcides, 66 



Meek, Seth E. and Robert G. Newland. A Review of the American 



Species of the Genus Sphyrsena, 67 



Meehan, Thomas. Catalogue of the Plants collected in July, 1883, during 



an Exouision along the Pacific Coast in southeastern Alask^i, . . 76 

 Jordan, David S. Notes on Species of Fishes improperly ascribed to the 



Fauna of Noith Ameri< a, . . . . . . . . .97 



Meyer, Otto. Notes on Tertiary Shelli^, 104 



DoLLEY, Chas. S., M. D. On the Process of Digestion in Sal pa, . .113 

 Randolph, N. A., M. D. A preliminary Note on a Reaction common to 



Peptone and the Bile-salts, . . 115 



Meehan, Thomas. Botanical Notes. — Evolution of Heat in Plants ; Rela- 

 tion of Heat to the Sexes of Flowers ; Specific Differences in Picea 

 nigra; The Flowers of Piatanus ; Variation in Symplocos fcetidus ; 



Sugar in Cladastris tinctoria, 118 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Vertebrate Fossils from Florida, . . . .118 

 Randolph, N. A., M. D. On the Digestion of Raw and of Boiled Milk, 120 

 Meek, Seth E. and David K. Gobs. A Review of the American Species 



of the Genus Trachynotus 121 



Meek, Seth E. A Revie v of the American Species of the Genus Synodus, 130 



7S« i 786 SANSOM St., PHILAOELPhl. 




^ 



r 



PROCEEDINGS 



^^cailemg of ^atural |^fienct$ 



®: 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART II.— 3IAY— OCTOBER, 1H84. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redpield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Oor. of 19th and Race Streets. 

 188 4. 



^nm 




PUBLICATIONS OF THK 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the JouhNAL (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1881. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to subsxribers ; and to others, 

 $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America, 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dee. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proce-edings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. , 



The Third Series op the Proceedings, Illostrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which thirteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1883), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices afSxedr 



Description op Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Sat. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Trton, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph op the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Stnonymy op the Species of STREPOMATiOiE (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tkyon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Grology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — ^All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the pu 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall ox 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



November, 1884. 





COTSTTElSrTS. 



Lbid?, Job., M. D. A Rare Human Tapeworm, 



McCooK, Rev. H. C. How Lycosa fabricates her Round Cocoon, 



McCooK, Rev. H. C. Note on the Amphibious Habit of Lycosa, 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Pentastomum proboscideum, 



Meehan, Thos. The Nature of a Fasciated Branch, 



Meeiian, Tnos. On Rapid Changes in the History of Species, 



RiNGUEBERG, EuGENE N. S. New Fossils from the four Groups of the 



Niagara Period of Western New York (Plates II and III), 



Meehan, Thos. Opposite Leaves in Salix nigra, 



McC< OK, Rev. H, C. A Spider that makes a Spherical Mud-daub Cocoon, 

 Gill, Theo. On the Mutual Relations of the Hemibranchiate Fishes, . 



Gill, Theo. On the Anacanthine Fishes 



Potts. Edw. Some Modifications observed in the form of Sponge Spicules, 

 Lewis, H. Carv'ill. Volcanic Dust from Krakatoa, . . . . 



WiLLCOX, Jos. Notes on the Geology and Natural History of the We.st 



Coast of Florida, 



Potts, Edw. On a New Species of Cristatella (Plate IV), 

 Meehan, Thos. On Elasticity in the Filaments of Helianthus, 

 Carter, Henry J. Catalogue of Marine Sponges, collected by Mr. Jos. 



Willcox on the West Coast of Florida, 



Meehan, Thos. Sexual Characteii.stics in Zinnia, 



Arango, Rafael. Description of new species of Terrestrial MoUusca of 



Cuba, 



Potts. Edw. On Palndicella erecta, 



FooTE, Dr. a. E. a Large Zircon 



Potts, Edw. On the wide Distribution of some American Sponges, 

 Potts, Edw. On the Minute Fauna of Fairmount Reservoir, . 

 Brinton, Dr. D. G, Tunisian Flints, . . . . . 

 Meek, Seth E., and David K. Goss. A Review.of the American Species 



of the Genus Hemiramphus, . . . . . . 



Meek. Seth E., and Martin L. Hoffman. A Review of the American 



Species of the Genus Teuthis, 



Meek, Seth E., and Robert G. Newland. A Review of the American 



Si ecies of Scomberomorus, 



Chester, Frederick D. Preliminary Notes on the Geology of Delaware 



— Laurentian, Palaeozoic and Cretaceous Areas (Plate V), . 



Leidv, Jos., M. D. Organisms in Ice, . • 



OsBOKSi, Henry F. Preliminary Observations upon the Brain of Menopoma 



(Flate VI), 



Brinton, D. G., M. D. On the Cuspidiform Petroglyphs, or so-called 



Bird-Track Rock-Sculptures, of Ohio 



Brinton, D. G., M. D. Impression of the Figures on a "Meday Stfck," 

 Brinton, D. G., M. D. Fired Stones and Prehistoric Implements, . 

 Randolph, N. A. Cutaneous Absorption of Nicotine, . . . . 



PAGE. 



137 

 138 

 140 

 140 

 140 

 142 



144 

 151 

 151 

 154 

 167 

 184 

 185 



188 

 193 

 200 



202 

 210 



211 

 213 

 214 

 215 

 217 

 219 



221 



227 



232 



237 

 260 



262 



794 i 796 SANSOM 91 




PROCEEDINGS 



ck 



^dmi of l^itttttal ^mtt(^$ 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT III.—]S^OVEMBEB—nECE3IBER, 1884, 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidt, M. D., Geo. H. Hobn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Cor. of 19th and Race Streets. 

 1885. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1884. Tho price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or ${.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceeuings, Illustrated, commencing- January 1, 1871, 

 (of which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31 , 1 884), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal op Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of theui colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices afiBxedr 



Description of Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Sat. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph op the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph op thb Fresh Water Fnivalve Moi.lusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, dui>licate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy op the Species of StrepomatiDjK (Melanians) op the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List op American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, J1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other >Papers, By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY op C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographio 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis op Qknus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publication.s of the Society will bo sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices cliurgetl to tlio public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Noi-an, M.D., at the llall of the 

 Academy, comer of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



March, 1885. 





COTSTTETSTTS. 



FAGS. 



Randolph, N. A. On the Behavior of Petrolatum in the Digestive Tract, 281 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Urnatella gracilis, 282 



Strecker, Herman. Description of New Species of North American 



Heterocera 283 



Gray, Asa. Notes on the Movements of the Androecium in Sunflowers, . 287 

 SCRIBNER, F. Lamson. Observations on the Genus Cinna, with Description 



of a New Species (Plate VII), 289 



Ford, John. Embryology of Fulgur, etc., 292 



Potts, Edw. An unfamiliar Rhizopod, 292 



McCooK, Henry C, D. D. Note on the Intelligence of a Cricket parasitised 



by a Gordius, 293 



McCooK, Henry C, D. D. A New Parasitic Insect upon Spider Eggs, . 294 

 Meehan, Thos. On Derivation in Pinus edulis and Pinus monophylla, . 295 

 Meehan, Thos. Immediate Influence of Pollen on Fruit, .... 29^ 



Brinton, Daniel G., M. D. A Glacial Pebble, 299 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Homologies of the Vertebrate Crystalline Lens, 300 

 FoRDiCE, Morton W. A Review of the American Species of Stromateidae, 311 

 Heilprin, Angelo. On a Remarkable Exposure of Columnar Trap near 



Orange, N. J. (Plate VIII), 318 



Heilprin, Angelo. Notes on Some New Foraminifera from the Nummu- 



litic Formation of Florida, 321 



Repoit of the Recording Secretary, 323 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary, . . . . . . . 326 



Report of the Librarian, 328 



Report of the Curators, 330 



Summary of the Report of the Treasurer, 333 



Report of the Curator of the Wm. 6. Vaux Collections, .... 336 

 Report of Biological and Microscopical Section, ...... 338 



Report of the Conchological Section, . . . , 339 



Report of the Entomological Section, . . . . . . . . 341 



Report of the Botanical Section, 342 



Report of the Miueralogical and Geological Section, 345 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Palaeontology 345 



Report of the Professor of Mineralogy, 346 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 347 



Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology, .... 348 



Officers for 1885, 349 



Elections during 1884, 349 



Additions to the Museum, 351 



Additiont- to the Library, 356 



Index to Genera, etc., 385 



General Index, 393 



'ILDARI'S PRINTINO HOUSE, T>4 li 7ie 9ANS0M ST., PHILAOII.PHM. 






'^i?wmlf"OI LIBRARY 





