


Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 



in 2009 with funding from 



Ontario Council of University Libraries 



http://www.archive.org/details/proceedingsofaca35acaduoft 






PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1 8 8 3. 



committee of publication: 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M, D., 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D., Thojias Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor : EDWARD J. XOLAX, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY or NATUKAL, SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Street?, 



/. 1884. 



\ 




I 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



FebiTiary 28, 1884. 



I hereby^'certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1883 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 



Pages 9 



25 



41 



" 57 



73 



89 



" 105 



'' 121 



" 137 



" 153 



'^ 169 



185 



201 



233 



265 



281 



297 



813 



24 

 40 

 56 

 72 



to 

 to 

 to 

 to 

 to 88 

 to 104 

 to 120 

 to 136 

 to 152 

 to 168 

 to 184 

 to 200 

 to 232 

 to 264 

 to 280 

 to 296 

 to 312 

 to 328 



February 



March 



March 



April 



May 



June 



June 



July 



August 



August 



September 



November 



December 



January 



January 



January 



January 



Febniaiy 



20. 1883. 



13, 1883. 

 27, 1883. 



10, 1883. 

 22, 1883. 



5. 1883. 

 26, 1883.' 

 24, 1883. 



7, 1883. 



14, 1883. 

 18, 1883. 

 13, 1883. 



11, 1883. 



8, 1884. 



15, 1884. 

 22, 1884. 

 29, 1884. 



12, 1884. 



EDWARD J. KOLAN", 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



W. P. KiLDARE. Printer. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With refers'-' '■^'' "ri.vj.>s contributed by each. 



see General Index. 



> > >;j, Ji,. D. Xotes on the Geographical Distribution of Batrachia and 



ReptUia in Western North America 10 



On a new Extinct Genus of Sirenia from South Cai;olina 52 



On the Mutual Relations of the Bunotherian Mammalia 77 



On the Characters of the Skull in the Hadrosauridse 97 



On some Yertebrata from the Permian of Illinois 108 



On the Fishes of the Recent and Pliocene Lakes of the Western 



Part of the Great Basin, and of the Idaho Pliocene Lake 134 



Cresson, H. T. Aztec Music 86 



Evermann, B. W., and Seth E. Meek. A Review of the Species of 



Gerres found in American Waters 116 



Heilprin, Angelo. Xote on a Collection of Fossils from the Hamilton 



1 Devonian I Group of Pike Co., Pa 213 



On the Value of the "Xearctic" as one of the Primary Zoological 



Regions. Replies to Criticisms by Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace 



and Prof. Theodore Gill 266 



Hoopes, Josiah. Pinus Koraiensis Sieb. and Zucc 114 



Jordan, David S. Notes on American Fishes preserved in the 



Museums at Berlin, London, Paris and Copenhagen 281 



Leidy, Jos. Manayunkia speciosa 204 



Lewis, Graceanna. On the Genus Hyliota 128 



McCook, Rev. Henry C. The Occident Ant in Dakota 294 



Martindale, Isaac C. Obituary Notice of Charles F. Parker. ... 260 



Mitchell, Chas. L. Staining with Hsematoxylon 297 



Mohr, Charles. On Quercus Durandii Buckley 37 



Osborn, Henry F, Preliminary Observations upon the Brain of 



Amphiuma .... 177 



Parker, Andrew J. Reproduction in Amphileptus fasciola 313 



Rand, Theo. D. Note on the Geology of Chester Valley and Vicinity. 241 

 Randolph, N, A. A Study of the Distribution of Gluten within the 



Wheat Grain 308 



Sharp, Benj. On the Anatomy of Ancylus fluviatilis O. F. Miiller and 



Ancylus lacustris Geoffroy 214 



Stearns, R. E. C. Description of a new Hydrobiinoid Gasteropod from 



the Mountain Lake of the Sierra Nevada, with Remarks on 



Allied Species aLd the Physiographical Features of said Region. 171 

 Townsend, Charles H. Notes on the Birds of Westmoreland County, 



Penna. 59 



Willcox, Jos. Notes on Glacial Action in Northern New York aud 



Canada 257 



Wright, Berlin H. A new Unio from Florida 58 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THB 



ACADEMYOF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1883. 



January 2, 1883. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirt}'^ persons present. 



The deaths of J. T. Reinhardt, of Copenhagen, a correspondent, 

 and of Edmund Draper, a member, were announced. 



January 9. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper, entitled "Notes on the Geographical Distribution of 

 Batrachia and Reptilia of Western North America," b}'^ Edw. D. 

 Cope, was presented for publication. 



January 16. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper, entitled " On Quercus Durandii," by S. B. Buckley, 

 was presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to be printed :— 



2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



NOTES ON THE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF BATRACHIA AND 

 REPTILIA IN WESTERN NORTH AMERICA. 



BY E, D. COPE. 



The following notes are based on collections made by mj^self 

 and my assistants at various points in the Rocky Mountain and 

 Pacific regions during the last ten j^ears. They describe the range 

 of various species of our terrestrial cold-blooded vertebrata, and 

 contribute to the final definition of the zoological provinces and 

 districts of the continent. 



1. Lake Yalley, New Mexico. 



This locality is at the western border of Donana County, twenty 

 miles N. E. of Fort Cummings. It is in the foot-hills of the 

 Mimbres or Negretta range. The region is rather arid, springs 

 not being numerous ; but during July and August there are frequent 

 rains. Vegetation is abundant in the form of grass and herbaceous 

 plants and shrubs. 



Scaphiopus sp. Young. 

 Rana halecina Kalm. 

 Phrynosoma cornatum Hari. 

 Full of eggs in June. 



Phrynosoma modestum Gird. ^ 



Yery abundant in August; not seen during two da3s' visit in 

 June. 



Ctotaphytus collaris Say. Abundant. 

 Uta schotti Baird. 



There is but one median smaller row of dorsal scales, so that 

 the single specimen approaches the U. nigricauda. Specimens of 

 this genus are abundant. 



Sceloporns 



A large species seen. 



Sceloporns. 



A small species seen, 



Holbrookia macnlata B. and G. Abuudant, 



Yar. Jiavilenta, differs from the typical form in having larger 

 prenasal scales separated by only two flat scales in front instead of 

 four tubercular ones, and in having only four flat scales between the 




1883. J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 11 



nostrils above instead of six tubercular ones, and in having the 

 scales of the front flatter. The spots are obscure or entirely 

 wanting ; when present they are more numerous than in the var. 

 maculata, there being eight between axilla and groin instead of 

 six. The sides and dorso-lateral regions are thickly marked with 

 small yellow spots. Two specimens. 



Cnemidophorus sexlineatus I.. 

 Yery abundant. 



Stenostoma dulce Bd. ami (Tird. 

 One specimen. 



Sascanium testaceam Say. 



Eutaenia cyrtopsis Kenn. 



Eutaenia ornata B. and G. 



Crotalas soutulatus Kenn. Not rare. 



Crotalus confluentus Say, var. pulverulentus Cope. 



I propose this name for a well-marked variety of rattlesnake, 

 which is abundant in the region of Lake Valley, especially on the 

 grassj^ plains. In order to determine its relations to the species 

 to which I refer it, I instituted a comparison with the allied forms 

 represented in my collection. These are: Two specimens from 

 Fort Benton, Montana ; two from Central Oregon ; two from 

 Eastern California ; one from Socorro, New Mexico ; one from 

 Fort Wingate, New Mexico; two from Lake Yalley, New Mexico, 

 and one from Haskell County, Texas. These represent a wide 

 range in latitude, and are likely to give the greatest range of 

 variation. The comparison indicates three varieties, defined as 

 follows : — 



Cephalic scales larger ; four rows between superciliary plates ; 

 four rows below orbit ; dorsal spots and cephalic bands light- 

 edged ; few posterior cross-bands ; confiuentus. 



Cephalic scales intermediate ; six rows between superciliaries ; 

 three rows below orbit (probably sometimes four) ; dorsal spots 

 square, with the head-bands, not light-edged ; posterior cross-bands 

 more numerous ; colors dotted with brown specks; pulverulentus^ 



Cephalic scales smallest; eight rows between superciliaries; four 

 rows below orbit ; dorsal spots and head-bands light-edged or not ; 

 numerous posterior cross-bands ; lucifer. 



The var. pulverulentus^ at first sight, resembles the Crotalus 

 mitchilli, having much the same coloration, but the head-scales and 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



plates are quite different. It gives out a powerful musky odor 

 when excited, which I have not noticed in the tj^pical form of the 

 species. It is quite probable that it is to this variety that 

 the specimens from Arizona should be referred, which I have 

 heretofore placed under G. lucifer} Not having access to the 

 specimens at this time, I cannot determine this point positively. 

 Of those above enumerated, the specimens from Fort Benton, Fort 

 Wingate, from Socorro, and from Texas, belong to the typical 

 G. confiuenlus. The others are the G. c. lucifer. 

 Crotalus molossus B. and G. 



I killed a fine specimen of this species, which I discovered in 

 the act of springing through a bush. When I struck it, it was 

 suspended over a branch, looking at me. It was heavy in its 

 movements, except at the moment of leaping. 



2. Socorro, New Mexico. 



The collection from this region was made by Prof. Frank Snow, 

 of the University of Kansas, at Lawrence. I here express my 

 indebtedness to Prof. Snow for the opportunity of studying it. 

 Phrynosoma modestum Girard. 

 Phrynosoma corautum Harl. 

 Phrynosoma douglassi Bell. 

 Crotaphytus coUaris i^ay» 

 Holbrookia texana Troscb. 

 Holbrookia maculata B. and G. 

 Sceloporus poinsettii B. and G. 

 Uta stansburiana B. and G. 

 Cnemidopliorus sexlineatus L, 

 Diadophis regalis Bd. and GirJ. 



The first time this rare species has been found within the limits 

 of the United States. The single specimen obtained differs from 

 the typical one in having eight superior labials, with the eye 

 above the fourth and fifth. As the preorbital labials are very 

 short, variation to seven in all may be anticipated, as is found in 

 the type. This specimen is smaller than the one from Sonora 

 originally described. 

 Bascanium constrictor L. 

 Eutsenia marciana B. and G. 



The common species of the Rio Grande valley. 



1 Proceedings Philada. Academy, 1866, 307. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 13 



Crotalus confluentus Say. 



Typical variety from near the southern end of the Socorro 

 Mountain, five miles from Socorro. 



Crotalus lepidas Kennicott. 



Prof. Snow was fortunate enougli to obtain the first entire 

 specimen of this species, it having been described by Kennicott 

 from two heads. We are thus made acquainted with the most 

 peculiar of the North American rattlesnakes, I proposed for it 

 the genus Haploaspis ou account of the undivided nasal plates of 

 the typical specimens. In the present specimen, that plate is 

 divided below the nostril. It is therefore probable that this 

 generic name should be abandoned. 



Mr. Kennicott has well described the seutellation of the head. 

 It may be summarized here b}^ saying that the top of the muzzle 

 is covered by eight smooth scuta ; that the rostral plate is rather 

 low, and is in contact with the prenasal ; that there are two pre- 

 oculars and two loreals ; and that but two scales separate the 

 orbit from the superior labial scuta. Of the latter there are 

 twelve. Occipital scales smooth. Scales of body in twenty-three 

 rows, the two external on each side smooth. Urosteges, 153; 

 gastrosteges, 2t. The rattle consists of seven segments and a 

 button, and narrows gradually towards the extremity. 



The color above is a greenish graj'^, which is crossed by nine- 

 teen jet-black rings on the bod}', which do not extend on the 

 abdomen. These rings are two and a half scales wide on the 

 middle line, and narrow downwards on each side so as to coA^er 

 but one scale in width. The scales which border the annuli are 

 half black and half green, the effect of which is to give the edge 

 of the ring a turreted outline. The edges of the ground-color 

 are paler than any other part of the scales, thus throwing the 

 black into greater relief. A large black spot, shaped like two 

 hearts side by side, with the apices posterior, marks the nape ; 

 and there is an irregular small black spot on each side of the 

 occiput. Some black specks between the orbits. No other marks 

 on the head. Near the middle of the gray spaces of the body, 

 some of the scales of many of the rows have black tips. The 

 tail is light brown above, and has a basal broad black, and two 

 other narrow brown annuli. Below dirty white, with closely 

 placed shades of brown. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1888. 



Total length, m. '555 ; to constriction of neck, '021 ; length of 

 tail, -074 ; do. without rattle, '026. 



This is one of the smallest species of Crotalus, and is one of the 

 most handsomely colored. Its coloration is entirely unique in the 

 genus. The scutellation of the muzzle places it between the two 

 sections of the genus, typified respectively' by C. horridus and 

 C. durissus. 



The specimen was captured on the summit of the Magdalena 

 Mountains, which are northwest from Socorro twenty miles. 



3. St. Thomas, Nevada. 



This locality is on the Yirgen River, in southeastern Nevada, 

 nearlj' in the latitude of the southern boundary of Utah. The 

 collection now referred to was made by Dr. Edward Palmer and 

 sent by him to the Smithsonian Institution. Thi'ough Professor 

 Baird, the distinguislied Secretary, it was referred to me for 

 identification. 



Bafo leutiginosus frontosus Cope. 



This is the toad of the Great Basin, representing the B. colum- 

 hiensis of more northern regions. 

 Crotaphytus wislizeni B. and G. 

 Cnemidophorus tessellatus Say. 

 Ophibolus getulus boyli B. and G. 



The most northern locality' for this species in the Great Basin. 

 It has been previously obtained b}^ Palmer and Coues, near 

 Prescott, Arizona. 



PMmothyra grahamiae B. and G. 



A variety with the dorsal bands nearly obsolete, and separated 

 by three rows of dorsal scales on all parts of the body. Two 

 preoculars on one side and three on the other. The most northern 

 locality for this species. 



4. Santa Fe, New Mexico. 



Amblystoma maTortium Baird. 

 Not uncommon. 



Spea hammondii Baird. 



Abundant in July and August, when it deposits its eggs in the 

 pools of rain-water. It is very nois}"^ at such times, and the open 

 lots in the city of Santa Fe resound with its cries. They are much 

 like those of the Soaphiopus holhrookii. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



The range of this species is extensive. It was originally obtained 

 near Redding in Northern California. My friend, James S. Lip- 

 pineott, has sent it to me from the extreme south of California, 

 San Diego. The Smithsonian Institution has a slightlj^ differen- 

 tiated variety from Chihuahua ; and a specimen from my friend 

 Dr. Duges, from Guanajuato, Mexico, though rather j^oung, is 

 apparently the same. I suspect that the Scaphiopus dugesi Broechi 

 from that locality is the same species. 



This species is much like the Scaphiopus intermontanus described 

 further on. It is always smaller, and the middle pair of light dorsal 

 bauds is nearly always wanting. It is still more different from the 

 S. varius, which has the vomerine teeth entirely posterior to the 

 nares, banded upper lip and marbled back. 



5. San Francisco Mountains, Utah. 



Lizards are verj' abundant in this region, especially in the Wah 

 Wall Yalle}', on the west side of the range, 



Phrynosoma platyrhinum Gird. 

 Yery abundant. 



Crotaphytus wislizeni Bd. and Gird. 

 Very abundant. 



Crotaphytus collaris Say. 

 Very common, 



TJta stansbariana Bd. and Gird. 

 Abundant. 



Secloporas smaragdinas Cope. 

 Not rare. 



Sceloporus consobrinus B. and G. 

 Cnemidophorus sp. 



Many seen but not caught. 



6. Provo and Salt Lake City, Utah. 



Bafo lentiginosus frontosus Cope. 

 Abundant near Salt Lake City. 



Scaphiopus intermoBtanus sp. nov. 



I took a specimen of this species within the limits of Salt Lake 

 City, and subsequently obtained three or four specimens from 

 Pyramid Lake, Nevada. It resembles the Spea hammondi more 

 than it does any other species. The frontoparietal bones, though 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



ossified, are not roughened as in the other species of Scaphiopiis. 

 It is nearest the S. varius (from near San Antonio, Texasj. In 

 that species the vomerine teeth are entirely posterior to the internal 

 nares ; in this one they are between the posterior borders of the 

 same. The lips are not cross-barred as in the S. varius ; and the 

 superior region has two pale lines on each side. In S. varius these 

 lines are replaced by a coarse marbling. As compared with Spea 

 hammondi, this frog differs in its larger size, lighter colors, and 

 the presence of the superior pair of light lines. 



It represents the S. hammondi in more northern regions, and 

 the complete cranial ossification and larger size mark it as a more 

 fully developed form. 



Bana halecina Kahn. From Provo. 

 Rana pretiosa B. & G. 



A variety without a trace of dorso-lateral folds, and of a uniform 

 dusky color above and on the sides. Lip not striped. The pos- 

 terior part of the abdomen and the inferior face of the thighs are 

 salmon-red. Skin smooth ; diameter of membranum tj^mpani 

 three-fifths that of the eye. Salt Lake City. This is the most 

 southern locality of this species known.' 



Sceloporas consobrinus B. & (\. Provo. 



t. Atlanta, Idaho. 



Atlanta is a small town situated on the headwaters of the 

 South Boise River, on the southern drainage of the Sawtooth 

 Mountain Range. The valley is quite elevated, and is shut in by 

 granitic mountains ; water and vegetation are abundant ; and the 

 snow lies on the ground late in the spring. During a short visit 

 there in 1882, 1 obtained the following species : 



Amblystoma epizanthum sp. nov. 



Nearly related to Amblystoma macrodactylum Baird,and to be 

 placed next to that species in any sjmopsis of the genus.^ Costal 

 folds twelve. No canthus rostralis. Upper jaw overlapping 

 lower. Tail stronglj^ compressed, as long as head and body to 

 groin. Head wide-oval ; its greatest width one-fourth its total 

 length to the groin. Digits all rather short ; four phalanges in 



1 Proc. Acad. Phila., 1867, p. 171. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IT 



fourth posterior digit. Internal nares as widely separated as 

 the external. Ej'e-fissure one-half width between the anterior 

 canthus. Median dental series presenting an angle forwards. 

 Tongue large, deepl^^ plicate. Length, m. -083 ; length to axilla, 

 •017; to groin, -040; length of anterior limb, '012; of anterior 

 foot, "004 ; of hind limb, "014 ; of posterior foot, '0065. 



Sides of body and tail, and superior surfaces of limbs, shining 

 black. Dorsal region to end of tail and muzzle, gamboge j^ellow. 

 The yellow expands on the head, and forms two eross-bands on 

 the upper surfaces of each of the limbs. The black of the sides 

 is occasionally interrupted by the yellow spots irregularly placed. 

 Below, dilute black, dusted with minute white speckles. The 

 structural differences between this and the A. macrodactylum 

 are not man}-, but are well marked. They are : 1. The greater 

 width of the head, which enters the length (without the tail) five 

 times in the latter, and four times in the A. epixanthum ; and 

 is also seen in the greater interorbital width. 2. In the shoi't 

 toes, which are very much longer in the A. macrodactylum. In 

 color, this species is the more brilliant ; the coast species being- 

 described as brown, with gra}' dorsal stripes, instead of black, 

 with yellow dorsal stripes. In it the limbs are not banded, and 

 the bell}^ is uniformly pale, contrar}'- to what holds in the present 

 species, which is the most handsome of the genus. I obtained 

 four specimens of this salamander, under logs, in a swamp near 

 the head of the South Boise River, on the south side of the 

 Sawtooth Mountain Range, Idaho. 



Bufo columbiensis Bd. and Gird. 



Abundant. I also obtained it at Bellevue on the Wood River^ 

 about one hundred miles southeast of Atlanta. 



Bascanium vetustum Bd. and Gird. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis Linn. 



These are all, except the last, si>ecies characteristic of the 

 northern fauna of Washington Territory. The Bufo columbiensis 

 ranges to the headwaters of the Missouri. 



8. Mouth of Bruneau River, Idaho. 



This locality' is on Snake River, which cuts through the great 

 lava outflow of southern Idaho and Oregon. The i-eptiles ai'e 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



different from those of Atlanta, and are those of the great basin 



of Utah. I am indebted to Mr. J. L. Wortman for these specimens. 



Fhrynosoma platyrhiaam Gird. 



Crotaphytus coUaris Say. 



Crotaphytus wislizeni B. and G. 



Uta stansburiana B. and G. 



Sceloporus smaragdinus Cope. 



Pityophis catenifer Blainv. 



Bascanium vetastam B. and G. 



The head is a little longer than in a specimen from central 

 Oregon, and the muzzle is less conical. The fifth superior labial 

 just reaches the inferior postorbital. 



9. From Reno to Pyramid Lake, Nevada. 



The road from Eeno to the southern extremity of Surprise 

 Yalley, California, passes through an arid and forbidding country. 

 The rocks are entirely basaltic, and frequently present a rugged 

 foundation for the road. The vegetation consists of Artemisia, 

 and where alkali abounds, of Sar^cobatus. North of Pyramid 

 Lake, the dry alkaline flats once covered b}' the Alkali Lake, have 

 a wide extent. During the hot weather of July, 1882, the region 

 swarmed with lizards, and rattlesnakes were numerous. The 

 greatest number of both was met with from Pyramid Lake north- 

 wards for twent}' miles. 



Bnfo columbiensis Bd. and Gird. Pyramid Lake. 

 Scaphiopus intermontanus Cope. 



With the preceding species in a pond near the shore of Pyramid 

 Lake. Like other allied species, it was very noisy, "almost obscu- 

 ring the voice of the less vociferous Bufo. 

 Fhrynosoma platyrhinum Gird. 



Yery abundant. 

 Crotaphytus coUaris Say. 

 Crotaphytus wislizeni B. and G. 



More abundant than the C. collaris. 

 Holbrooliia sp. 



A fine species was seen north of Pyramid Lake, but it was so 

 swift that I did not succeed in catching a specimen. It resembles 

 the H. fexana, and ma}^ be an undescribed species. 

 Sceloporus smaragdinus Cope. 



A variety with one additional row of small supraorbital scales, 

 making six rows in all. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Cnemidoplioras tessellatus Say. Abundant. 



Bascanium sp. Young. 



Crotalus confluentus lucifer B. and G. Cope emend, supra, p. 11. 



Two specimens from Buffalo CanA'on, north of Pyramid Lake. 

 In one of the specimens the dorsal spots are first darker, then 

 lighter-bordered, and there are twenty-three rows of scales on the 

 body. In the other there are twenty-five rows of scales, and the 

 spots have neither dark nor pale borders, but have pale scales 

 scattered through them, and they have a more transverse form. 



10. The Lakes of South and West Central Oregon. 



This region possesses much zoological interest from the position 

 which it occupies as the border-land between the faunse of the 

 Pacific slope and that of the great interior basin. It is here that 

 we find the transition between the sage-brush (Artemisia) desert 

 and the forest-covered Sierra Nevada Mountains and valleys. 

 Here also we have the transition between the almost fresh lakes 

 near the mountains, to the intensely alkaline ones east of them. 

 An especial interest attaches to the lake faunae ; since we find in 

 them the means of determining the characters of the fossils found 

 in the remains of pliocene and post-pliocene lakes of the Oregon 

 desert. This part of the subject will be more full}' considered in 

 an essay on the fishes of these lakes, now in course of preparation. 



The routes on which the species of the list below given, were 

 collected, are as follows : Along the east shore of the Great 

 Klamath Lake to its northern extremity-. From the eastern side 

 of the lake northeastward to Silver Lake. This was part of my 

 expedition of 1879. In 1882, I passed along the three southern 

 Warner Lakes, and then crossed southwest to Goose Lake. Thence 

 I traveled north to Summer Lake, crossing the Chewaucan River, 

 which flows into Abert's Lake. Then north to Silver Lake, con- 

 necting with my route of 1879. After that, south to Goose Lake, 

 passing along its entire eastern shore. 



Bafo columbiensis Bd. and Gird. 



Abundant throughout the entire region. It is especially numer- 

 ous at Klamath Lake, where it covers the basaltic blocks' which 

 lie partially in the water, concealed bj^ the Typhde, which grow 

 from the bottom. They accumulate there in large piles, sometimes 

 as large as a bushel-measure, and afford abundant food for the 

 Eutaeniae, which are scarcely less abundant. One specimen of 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



this toad was as large as the average Bufo marinus of Brazil, 

 and a specimen seen at Warner's Lake was but little smaller. 



Hyla regilla B. and G. 



Abundant at Silver Lake, at Warner's Lake, Goose Lake and 

 at Fort Bidwell, twenty miles east of Goose Lake, in California, 

 I found numbers of what I suppose to be a variety of this species. 

 It is little over half as large in linear dimensions, and the skin is 

 more distinctly tubercular above. Some of those from Goose 

 Lake are more spotted ; those from Fort Bidwell are nearly'- 

 uniform golden-yellow and green. This species lives in swamps 

 and on the edge of water, representing in this region the Acris 

 and Ghorophilus of the east. 



Eana pretiosa B.l. and Gird. 



This is the characteristic Hana of the northwestern interior, 

 being accompanied by Bufo columbiensis and Bascanium vetustum. 

 In life the posterior part of the abdomen, with the inferior faces of 

 the thighs, are of a bright salmon-red. I obtained it the entire 

 length of the valley- of the Warner Lakes, but not at Fort Bidwell. 

 I have found it to range as far as the eastern foot of the Rocky 

 Mountains in Montana ;^ and the specimens assigned by me- to 

 Bana sejytentrionalis, from the Yellowstone Basin, may be the 

 variety described above from Salt Lake City. I do not now have 

 them before me for decision. Specimens of this species are in 

 the National Museum, from Puget's Sound (Dr. Kennerl}-, No. 

 5975 a) and from " Camp Moryie " (Dr. Kennerly, No. 5973). The 

 first-named specimens are accompanied by the B. temporaria 

 aurora. It habits are aquatic. 



Fhrynosoma douglassi Bell. Var. 



On the elevated land which represents the Sierra Nevada Range, 

 between Warner's Lake and Goose Lake, in the basaltic region, 

 near the former, I found a peculiar variety of this species. The 

 horns are even more rudimental than in the usual form, but are 

 all represented. The prominent scales of the back are smaller 

 and less prominent. In some of the specimens the head is shorter 

 relatively to the body. The color is an ironrust-brown, Avith 

 darker lateral spots, each with a small posterior j-ellow border. 



' American Xaturalist, 1879, p. 435. 



^ Annual Report U. S. Geol. Survey Terrs., 1871, p. 469. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Individuals are abundant ; some of tliose taken are full of eggs. 

 All are much smaller than the true P. douglassi. 



TJta stansburiana B. and G. 



Abundant on the crags of basalt on the sides of Warner's 

 Valley. It is also common at Summer Lake, which is the most 

 northern locality for the species and genus. 



Sceloporus graciosus B. and G. 



This Tcry pretty species extends as far north as Summer Lake, 

 and is quite abundant. 



Sceloporus smaragdinus Cope. 



Common as far north as Summer Lake. A specimen taken 

 there has large torquoise-blue spots behind each brown cross-bar, 

 on each side of the dorsal region. 



Charina plumbea Bd. and Gird. 



I found a single specimen of this curious snake in the road 

 along the west side of Summer Lake. Although living, its 

 muscles were alternately contracted in such a way as to give it the 

 appearance of a knotted root. It was very tame, allowing itself 

 to be handled without offering resistance. In life the inferior 

 surfaces are of a rich yellow, 



Pityophis mexicanus bellona B. and G. 

 From Summer Lake. 



BaBcaninm vetastum B. and G. 



Common in Warner's Yalley, at Summer Lake and at Klamath 

 Lake. 

 Eutssnia pickeringii B. and G. 



Yer}' common everj^where near water, in all parts of the Lake 

 countr3^ 



Eutsenia sirtalis sirtalis Linn. 



This species accompanies the preceding at Warner's third Lake, 

 at Summer Lake and at Goose Lake, and retains its distinctive 

 features. The specimens seen at Goose Lake have the bands 

 brighter yellow than usual, and are verj"^ pugnacious. They 

 preferred fighting to escaping, and bit furiously. 



Eutaenia sirtalis elegans B. and G. 



Abundant. In young specimens the dorsal spots are distinct. 



Eatsenia biscutata sp. nov. 



This is one of the best defined species of the genus. I have 

 onlj"^ two specimens, which agree in the following characters. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



They differ in the number of rows of scales, however, one having 

 twenty-three and the other twenty-two. All the rows of scales 

 keeled, the median ones very strongly. Labials eight, the eye 

 resting on the fourth and fifth. Two preoculars ; three post- 

 oculars. The muzzle is rather short, the frontal plate exceeding 

 in length the region anterior to it, and equaling the common 

 suture of the parietal scuta. Nasals rather short ; loreal as long 

 as high ; inferior preocular nearl^^ square ; superior preocular not 

 reaching frontal. Superior labials all truncate above and none of 

 them elevated, the sixth touching the inferior postorbital. Tem- 

 l)orals, 1 • 2 • 3 ; the anterior are rather large. Pairs of geneials 

 subequaL Gastrosteges, 156 ; urosteges, 19. 



Color everj^where black, except on the chin and throat, and on 

 the inferior side of the tail. The former was reddish in life. 

 There are very faint traces of stripes on the third and fourth, and 

 on the median dorsal rows of scales. No traces of spots on the 

 parietal scuta. 



Total length, m. 0-265; length to canthus of mouth (axial), 

 •012; length of tail, -062. 



This species is one of the best characterized of the genus. Its 

 leading peculiarities are : first, the two preocular scuta; second, 

 its twenty -three rows of scales. In both respects it is imique in 

 the genus. Its color is characteristic. Its place is nearest the 

 E. radix B. and G., with which it agrees in its rather robust 

 proportions, and the position of the lateral stripe. 



This species is not uncommon in the swamp vegetation on the 

 borders of the lake. The specimens I took displaj^ed little 

 activity. 



Crotalus confluentus lucifer B. and G. 



This species is abundant at Warner's second Lake, and I took 

 one at Silver Lake. The specimens are identical with those from 

 near Pj-ramid Lake, Nevada. 



11. The WiLLAMET Valley, Oregon. 



The fauna of this valley is that of westei'n Oregon, and may 

 be expected to diflfer from that of central and eastern Oregon. 

 The climate of the Willamet Yalley is very wet, and the soil is 

 densely covered with forests. This is a state of things almost 

 exactly the rcA-erse of what obtains in central Oregon. Appro- 

 priately' we have numerous species of salamanders and fewer 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



lizards than in the latter region. This collection was made by 

 my friend, Professor 0. B. Johnson, at that time residing at Salem. 

 The specimens were obtained at various points between that city 

 and Portland, north of it. 



Amblystoma tenebrosnm Bd. 



Amblystoma maorodactylum 6d. 



Flethodon intermedias Bd. 



Cynops torosus Esch. 



BufohalopMlus B. and G. 



Hyla regilla B. and G. 



Eumeces skiltoaianus Bd. 



Gerrhonotus mnlticarinatus Blv. 



Sceloporus undulatus thayeri B. and H. 



Fhrynosoma douglassi Bell. 



Charina plumbea B. and G. 



Diadophis panctatus palchellns B. and G. 



Bascanium vetustum B. and G. 



Eutaenia leptocephala B. and G. 



Of three specimens, two exhibit only seventeen rows of scales. 

 These probably represent the supposed species E. cooperi, which 

 is therefore not distinct. 



Eutaenia concinna Hallow. 



I took a specimen of this beautiful snake at Eugene City, south 

 of Salem. Not only the lateral vertical bars, but the muzzle, lips 

 and gular region are a brilliant red. 



12. Northern California. 



The species referred to in this list were found near the United 

 States fish-hatching establishment on the McCloud River, in 

 Shasta County, I desire here to express m}"- indebtedness to 

 Mr. Livingston Stone, superintendent of the hatching station, for 

 the hospitality which he extended to me at the time of my visit 

 there. 



Amblystoma (1j tenebrosum B. and G. 



A large siredon from a small tributary of the McCloud is probably 

 this species. It has peculiarities of the branchial structure, and 

 I describe it by comparison with those found in other genera of 

 American salamanders. These are mostly derived from specimens 

 placed in my hands by the Smithsonian Institution, to which my 

 acknowledgments are due. The coloration which appears in the 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



larger larvse of the present collection , approaches nearest that of 

 the Amblystoma tenebrosum. These animals were abundant in the 

 small stream I examined, and swam with great rapiditj'^, darting 

 about and hiding themselves among the fallen leaves that covered 

 the bottom. 



I. Processes with two rows of rami : 

 Rami with many thread-like fimbriae ; Siren. 



II. Processes with one — an outer — row of rami; 

 processes horizontal. 

 A rudimental inner row of rami ; fimbriae thread-like ; Proteus. 

 III. No principal rami ; 

 A. Processes compressed ; fimbriae dependent from 

 lower edge ; 

 Fimbriae thread-like, extending on both outer and inner face of 

 process ; NecturuH. 



Fimbriae flat, long, chiefly confined to the lower margin of process ; 

 Larvae of Spelerpes ruber; S. bilineatus^ and Gyrinophilus 

 porphyriticus. 

 Fimbriae few, subclavate ; Plethodon cinereus. 



A A. Processes long, narrow ; bearing fimbriae only 

 on the side next the body ; 

 Fimbriae simple, flat, sub-equal ; Ambly stoma. 



AAA. No processes nor rami ; fimbriae on the vertical 

 septa. 

 Fimbriae in numerous rows on the edge of the septa; slender, 

 unbranched ; Larva of Ambly stoma tenebrosum. 



A AAA. Processes vertical septa, with rami on the 

 anterior edge ; 

 Rami bearing flat, thread-like fimbriae, which arise from the pro- 

 cesses posteriorly and are often divided. Larva from Simiah- 

 moo, Washington Terr, 



Plethodon iecanus sp. nov. 



This salamander resembles the Plethodon glutinosus in various 

 respects, especially in coloration. It has, however, a compressed 

 tail like the P. intermedius, and short series of vomerine teeth. 



The vomerine series are straight, and do not quite meet on the 

 middle line. TUey are entireh'^ behind the nares, and do not extend 

 exterior to them. The parasphenoid patches are united into one, 

 and are well separated from the vomerines. 



Form rather stout, and the tail short, equaling (from vent) the 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



25 



length of the body (with veut) to the gular fold. Costal folds 13. 

 Head a longitudinal oval, with rather narrowed, and not truncate 

 muzzle; its length (to occiput) contained three and two-third 

 times in length from muzzle to groin. 



Limbs short ; when pressed along the side they are separated 

 by three intercostal spaces. The digits are short, and the internal 

 ones are rudi mental. 



The color is black everywhere, and the superior surfaces are 

 dusted over with minute light specks. 



Measurements. 

 i 

 Total length, 



Length from muzzle to axilla, 



Length from muzzle to groin, 



Width of head at canthus oris, 



Length of anterior limb, 



Length of anterior foot. 



Length of posterior limb. 



Length of posterior foot. 



M. 



•053 



•0105 



•02t5 



•006 



•006 



•002 



•0075 



•0032 



This species is to be compared with the Plethodon intermedius 

 of western Oregon. It is shorter and more robust in form, having 

 only thirteen costal plicae instead of fifteen.' The color is verj' 

 different. 



This species is named from the aboriginal name leka, of the 

 grand peak of northern California, Mount Shasta. From the 

 same name the town of Yreka derives its name. So I am informed 

 hj Judge Roseborough of that place, to whom I am under great 

 obligations for many facilities and much information. 



Cynops torosas E-ich. Dieiiii/cti/liiJ< torosus Cope, Check List, Biitr. Rept., N. Amer. 

 Bufo halophilus Bd. and (lird. 

 Hyla regilla B. and G. 

 The tj^pical form. 



Rana pachyderma sp. nov. 



Represented by five specimens of different ages and sizes from 



' On page 99, Proc. Phila. Academy, 1869, in my monograph of the Ple- 

 thodontidce the number of plicae is given at 13. This is a misprint for 15. 

 On p. 209, Proceedings for 1867, the number is correctly given as 15. 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



the McCloud River, and by two specimens from Ashland at the 

 northern base of the Siskij-ou Mountains, Oregon. 



This species belongs to the Rana temporaria group, and must 

 oe compared with Rana temporaria aurora B. and G., and R. 

 preliosa B. and G. The vomerine teeth are opposite the posterior 

 border of the choanae, and form two short, transverse series. 

 The toes are webbed to the base of the terminal phalange of the 

 fourth digit. The hind-leg extended reaches the extremity of 

 the muzzle with the heel. There are two plantar tubercles. The 

 internal is narrow, rather prominent and with obtuse extremity ; 

 the other is at the base of the fourth metatarsal bone, and is 

 rounded. 



The muzzle is obtuse and the head rather wide. Its greatest 

 width at the position of the membranum tympani, equals the 

 length from the end of the muzzle to the line connecting the 

 axillffi in some specimens ; in others to that connecting the middle 

 of the humeri. The skin is on all the superior surfaces thick and 

 glandular. This condition is especially marked in the dorso- 

 lateral fold of each side, which is so thickened in front as to 

 resemble a parotoid gland. This becomes less visible in alcohol. 

 The tympanic membrane is either entirely' concealed, or is repre- 

 sented by a depression only. The skin covering it is roughened. 

 A groove extends downwards and backwards from it. Between 

 this and the canthus oris is a glandular thickening, and behind it 

 are two others, one above the other. Posterior to these on the 

 sides is a succession of rounded, roughened warts, similar_^to those 

 of the toads. Similar warts, but less prominent, are scattered 

 over the dorsal region, and are numerous near the extremity 

 of the coccyx. The skin of the superior surfaces of the head, 

 body and limbs is minutely but very distinctly roughened b}^ small 

 warts, each of which gives exit to a pore. Inferior surfaces smooth. 

 Length of fingers beginning with the shortest, 2 • 1 • 4 • 3. 



The color is dai'k brown or nearly' black, with indistinct darker 

 spots on the back; sides brown. Axilla and groin yellow, marbled 

 with black. Thighs above light or dark brown, with three darker 

 crossbars. Tibise similar, with three crossbars. Thighs behind, 

 black, coarsely vermiculated with yellow, ©r yellow closely spotted 

 with black. Below light yellow, spotted with brown on the gular 

 region and on front of femora. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



21 



Measurements. m. 



Length of head and body to vent, . . . 'i)&^ 



Length from muzzle to axilla (axial), . . . "030 



Length from muzzle to groin (axial), . . . "054 



Length of anterior leg, ..... 'OiS 



Length of manus, ...... 'OIQ 



Length of posterior leg, ..... '117 



Length of femur, ....... -033 



Length of tibia, ....... -038 



Length of tarsus, , -018 



The specimens from Ashland agree with those from the Mc- 

 Cloud, except that they are nearly black above and do not exhibit 

 the dorsal spots. 



I compare this species with the Bana temporaria auroi-a from 

 the Russian River near the coast of California. That species has 

 but one palmar tubercle, the internal, which is of similar propor- 

 tions to that of the R. pachyderma. The skin is not thickened, 

 and is much less glandular everywhere. The membranum tympani 

 is entirely distinct. The posterior face of the femur is not ver- 

 miculated with yellow, but is covered with large black masses. 

 The whole of the under surfaces are brown-spotted. There are 

 four brown crossbars on the tibia : traces of the fourth sometimes 

 appear in the E. pachyderma. From Rana pretiosa it differs in 

 all these characters ; besides those that belong to the latter, i. e., 

 the posteriorly-placed vomerine teeth and the short hind-legs. 



Eumeces skiltonianus B. and G. 

 Gerrhonotus multicarinatus Bh. 



The movements of this species are not nearly so active as are 

 those of the Iguanidee and especially of the Lacertidse. 



Sceloporns nndulatas thayeri B. aad G. 

 Diadophis punctatus pulohellus B. and G. 



Different from the t3-pical form of the subspecies in having no 

 spots on the inferior surfaces. I did not admit this form as dis- 

 tinct in m^' check list, but it had best be retained. It differs 

 from the subspecies amahilis in having the inferior two rows of 

 scales unicolor with the abdomen. In life this is a brilliant 

 orange.^ 



' At this locality I found, under bark of logs, numerous specimens of 

 Brachycybe leconiei Wood. This beautiful myriapod was originally described 




28 proceedings of the academy op [1883. 



13. Mouth of Russian River, California. 



This locality is one hundred miles north of San Francisco. 

 The collection was made by myself, in and on the border of the 

 great redwood forest which there covers the hills and mountains 

 of the coast range, 



Batrachoseps attenuatus Esch. Abundant. 

 Plethodon oregonensis Gird. 



Abundant, and especially pleasing from its liquid, prominent 

 e3'es. Alwaj's under the redwoods. 



Cynops torosus Esch. 



Abundant. This species is entirely aquatic. 



Bana temporaria aurora B. and G, Rana drai/toni B. and G. Hnnn Inttr/ipes Hallow. 

 Xot distinguishable as a species, in my opinion, from the Hayia 

 temporaria of the palaearctic realm. 

 Gerrhonotus multicarinatus Blv. 

 Eutsenia sirtalis elegans B. and G. 



14. Los Angeles, California. 



Two collections from this localit}^ are before me. One of these 

 was made by Mr. DeCorse, Hospital Steward, at Drum Barracks, 

 and was sent to the Smithsonian Institution. Prof. Baird sub- 

 mitted it to me for determination. The second collection was 

 given me by Mr. Horatio N. Rust, the arch«ologist, who made 

 it at Passadena, a short distance from the city. 



Cynops torosus Esch. Rust. 

 Batrachoseps attenuatus Esch. Rust. 

 Phrynosoma blainvillii Gray. DeCorse. 

 Sceloporus undulatus thayeri B. and G. Rust. 

 Uta stansburiana B. and (4. 



as from California, where it was supposed to have been collected by Dr. .J. L. 

 Leconte. I, however, subsequently obtained it from East Tennessee, and 

 as Dr. Leconte had collected it in Georgia, it was supposed by Dr. Wood 

 that the locality California was an error. Its rediscovery on the McCloud 

 River shows that this species is found on the Pacific coast, as originally 

 stated by Wood, and that it ranges over the width of the continent. In 

 like manner a myriapod which I sent Mr. Ryder from the Russian River, 

 is stated by him to be much like Andrognathus Cope, a genus heretofore 

 known from the Alleghenies of Virginia. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHTA. 29 



Specimens remarkably large, and with the postinguinal black 

 spot umisuall}^ large and distinct. DeCorse. 

 Gerrhonotus multicarioatus Blv. Rust. 

 Eameces skiltonianus Bd. Rust, DeCors°. 

 Ophibolu? getulus boylii B. and G. Rust. 

 Pityophis catenifer Blv. Rust, DeCorse. 

 Bascanium testaceum S vy. Rust, DeCorse. 

 Entsenia hammondi Kenn. DeCorse. 



Note on a Species of Xantusia. 

 The species described below was found b}^ Dr. J. G. Cooper, 

 Zoologist of the State Geological Sui-vey of California, and was 

 placed in the collections of the University of California, where I 

 saw it. It was kindly lent me for examination by the authorities 

 of the University. The locality from which the specimen was 

 derived is unknown, beyond that it is Californian. 



Xantusia riversiana Cope. American Naturalist, 1879, p. 801. 



The position of this genus in the system has been discussed 

 by M. Bocourt ^ and myself.^ I associated it with the genera Lepi- 

 dophyvia Dum., and Cricosaura Peters, and stated that I was not 

 able to distinguish them from the family Lacertidse. M, Bocourt 

 places these genera in the family " Trachydermi," which also 

 includes Heloderma Wiegm. This family is divided bj^ M. Bocourt 

 into two subfamilies, the Glyjjhodonti for Heloderma, and the Agly- 

 j}hodonti for the three genera named, together with Xenosaurus 

 Pet. Previously to this^ I had examined and compared the 

 osteology of neloderma and Xenosaurus. On account of the 

 differences in the form of the mesosternum, and in some other 

 points, I regarded Xenosaurus as the type of a peculiar family to 

 be placed with the Helodermidsein the tribe Diploglossa. Xantusia^ 

 Lepidophynia and Cricosaura are, on the other hand, not Diplo- 

 glossa, but are Leptoglossa. The3^ are allied to the Lacertidse, and 

 especiall}'^ to the Asiatic Ophiops, which is, like them, without eye- 

 lids. The character of the tongue is like that of the Ecpleopidee, 

 uniformly squamous, and has no resemblance to that of the 

 Diploglossa. The characters of the scapular arch are those of the 

 Leptoglossa. The clavicle is loop-shaped proximally, and the 



' Mision Scientifique de Mexique, Herpetology, p, 303, 1878. 

 * Proceedings of the Academy of Philadelphia, 1864, p. 229. 

 'Loc. cit. 1866, p. 322. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883, 



mesosternnm is cruciform in Lepidojihyma and Xantusia. I have 

 not been able to examine Griconaura as to these points. In my 

 paper first mentioned, I stated that these genera have distinct 

 parietal bones. I think that they should, on this ac(?ount, be 

 distinguished from the Lacertidae, wliere they are codssified. 

 Whether they are distinct or united in the Ecpleopidse, I do not 

 know, but the absence of eyelids will separate the group from 

 that family. I use for it tlie name first given b3' Baird,^ Xantu- 

 iiidx^ and characterize the three genera as follows : — 



I. A large interfrontonasal plate; frontoparietals 



meeting on the middle line. 



Superciliary scales none ; pupil round ; Lepidophyma.- 



Superciliary scales present ; pupil vertical ; Xantusia. 



II. Two interfrontonasals ; frontoparietals separated 



by interparietal. 



Superciliary scales; Cricosaura. 



All of these genera have femoral pores, and an exposed mem- 

 bran um tympani. 



The species which has given occasion for the above discussion 

 is the second one of the genus. It is several times as large as 

 the type X. vigilis Baird, and has a difierent coloration. The 

 digits are shorter. 



The scales of the dorsal and lateral regions are rather coarsely 

 and uniformly granular. The abdominal scales are quadrate, and 

 are in sixteen longitudinal and thirty-two transverse rows. The 

 preanal scales are in three transverse rows, the anterior two of 

 four scales, with the median pair in both much enlarged, and the 

 posterior row of six scales. Scales of the gular region flat and 

 hexagonal, one row on the gular fold a little larger, and equal to 

 the anterior gulars. Scales of the anterior aspects of the fore-leg 

 and femur larger than the others ; those of the tibia small, and 

 those of the posterior face of the femur still smaller. Scales 

 of the tail in whorls of equal width. The scales of equal size, 

 and all convex in cross-section but not keeled. None of the 

 scales of the body or limbs, keeled. 



The nostril is situated in a small scute at the junction of the 

 sutures which separate the internasal, rostral, first labial, and first 



^ Proceedings Academy Philadelphia, 1858, December. 




1883] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



loreal scuta. Throe loreals, increasing in size posteriori}'. A 

 circle of scales surrounds the e3'e, of which the superior or super- 

 ciliary' are the largest. The latter are separated by one row of 

 scales from the parietal, supraorbital and frontal on each side. The 

 interfrontonasal is nearly square. The frontonasals are consider- 

 ably in contact. The frontal is hexagonal, and is broader than 

 long. The interparietal is as large as each parietal. It is longer 

 than wide, and notches the contact of the frontoparietals. The 

 occipitals are large and quadrate. A single large temporal bounds 

 the parietals and occipital, and it is followed by two small scuta 

 which are in contact with the occipital. There are eight scales on 

 the upper lip. Of these the fifth is the largest, and is part of an 

 annulus which begins with two small scales at the posterior 

 loreal, and terminates at the seventh scale, opposite the middle 

 of the pupil posteriorly. The posterior labials are small, and are 

 separated by nine rows of still smaller scales from the large 

 temporal. No large auricular scales. The eye is rather large 

 and its diameter is contained in the length of muzzle in front of it 

 1*75 times. The vertical diameter of the auricular meatus is a 

 little less. 



The first digits of both extremities are very short. The second 

 of the pes is verj^ little longer than the fifth. All the ungues are 

 acute and are moderatel}' curved. The hind-legs are remarkably 

 short, not exceeding the fore-legs. Extended forwards the ex- 

 tremity of the fourth digit reaches the elbow of the appressed 

 fore-leg. Femoral pores twelve on each side ; no anal pores. The 

 tail is not long, and its form is compressed with a flat inferior 

 surface. The section is a triangle, higher than wide, with the 

 apex narrowly truncate. 



The color is light brown, with dark umber-brown spots on the 

 superior surface. These spots form, in general, one median and 

 two lateral rows, but as their forms are ver^^ irregular this order 

 is obscure. The median dorsal are the largest, and they send 

 branches laterally and anteroposteriorly, so that the result is rather 

 confused. Dark brown bands cross the muzzle on the frontonasal 

 plates and on the frontal, and form a wide U from the fronto- 

 parietals passing around the posterior edge of the occipitals. 

 Sides of head with rather large brown spots. Inferior surfaces 

 with minute brown spots which are least numerous on the middle 

 line. Tail with irregular pale spots. 




32 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



15. San Diego, California. 

 My friend, James S. Lippincott, made a collection of reptiles 

 and batrachians at this locality, which throws considerable light 

 on some points of geographical distribution. A catalogue of the 

 species is here given : — 



Bufo columbiensis Bd. and Gird. 



A single specimen with smoother skin than the more northern 

 forms. Gland on the surface of the tibia very distinct. 

 Spea hammondi B. and (i. 



See aatea, page 14. Four specimens. 

 Eumeces skiltonianus Baird. 



A specimen with the scales of the dark bands pale centered, 

 and with a xevy thick tail. 

 Verticaria hyperythra Cope. 

 Coeioidophoras tessellatus tigr's B. and G. 

 Aniella pulohra Gray. 

 Gerrhoaotus multicarinatus Blv. 

 Uta stansburiana B. and G. 

 Crotaphytus wislizeni Bd. and Gird. 

 Phrynosoma blainvillei Gray. 

 RhinooMlus lecontei B. and G. 

 Hypsiglena ochrorhyachas Cope. 

 Bascanium testaceum Say. 



General Observations. 

 The results to zoological geography obtained bv the preceding 

 identifications areas follows: — Collection No 1. The extension 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 33 



northwards of the ranges of Crotalus molossus and Stenostoma 

 dulce. No. 2. The extension northwards of the ranges of Diado- 

 phis regalis, Crotalus lepidus and Holhrookia texana. No. 4. The 

 extension to the Rocky Mountains of the range of Spea hammondi. 

 No. 6. The discovery of a new Scaphiopus in the Great Basin 

 district ; and of the southern extension of JRana pretiosa into the 

 same. No. 7. The discovery that the Northern Pacific fauna 

 extends east to the Rocky Mountains. This fauna is especially 

 represented by Bascaniam vetustum, Bana pretiosa and Bufo 

 columhiensis. No. 8. The fact that the Great Basin district of the 

 Sonoran fanna extends north to the southern slope of the Rocky 

 Mountains in Idaho, where are found several of its species. These 

 are Phrynosoma platyrhinum, Crotaphytus wislizeni, and Uta 

 stansburiana. No. 9. The discovery that the same fauna extends 

 north along the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada to the begin- 

 ning of Surprise Valley, California. No. 10. The determination 

 that the Northern Pacific fauna extends from Surprise Valley, 

 eastern California, northwards as far as my explorations have 

 extended, viz., to Silver Lake and Klamath Lakes. No. 15. The 

 determination of a wide southern range for Spea hammondi and 

 Bufo columhiensis^ and northern range for Verticaria hyperythra. 



These results indicate that the Pacific region has a much greater 

 extension eastward than it has been supposed to have, but which 

 was foreshadowed in my paper on the Zoology of Montana, 

 published in 18T9.i They also indicate that it must be divided 

 into three districts. These I call the Idaho, the Willamet, and 

 the South Californian districts. The first is characterized by thfe 

 absence of Gerrhonotus and Cynops and of certain species of 

 Amblystoma. The South Californian is characterized by the 

 presence of Hypsiglena and Bhinochilus, and absence of Amblys- 

 toma. .It is allied to the Sonoran region, to which it is adjacent. 



As regards the relation which the Sonoran region as a whole 

 bears to the Nearctic and Neotropical realms, some remarks may 

 be in place here. It is a question with some naturalists to which 

 of the two it should be referred, and some would exclude it from 

 the Nearctic without fully determining its relations to the Neo- 

 tropical realm. 



There can, however, be no doubt that it lacks all the peculiar 



* American Naturalist, p. 435. 




34 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



features of the Neotropical realm, and if it lacks some of those 

 of the Nearctic also, its types are mostly representative of the 

 latter rather of the former. I content myself here with confirming 

 this general principle b}' reference to the principal families and 

 genera of cold-blooded vertebrata. 



B. Nearctica. 



Salmonidae. 

 Cyprinidae. 

 Catostomidae. 



Ranidae. 

 Scaphiopidae. 



Amblystomidae. 



Sceloporns. 

 Eumeces. 



Bascanium. 



Tropidonotus. 



Eutsenia. 



Pitj'ophis. 



Diadophis. 



Ophibolus. 



K. Sonoriana. 



Pisces. 

 Salmonidse. 

 Cyprinidas. 

 Catostomidae. 



Batrachia. 

 Ranidse. 

 Scaphiopidse. 



Amblystomidae. 



Reptilia. 



Lacertilia. 

 Sceloporns. 

 Eumeces. 



Ophidia. 



Bascanium. 



Tropidonotus. 



Eutaenia. 



Pityophis. 



Diadophis. 



Ophibolus. 



K. Neotropicalia. 



Characinidae. 



Stenostoma. 



Cvstignathidae. 



Liocephalus. 

 Mabuia. 



Boi:hrops. 



Drymobius. 



Helicops. 



Rhadinaea. 



Coniophanes. 



Erythrolamprus. 



Pliocercus. 



Oxyrrhopus. 



Sibon. 



Leptognathus. 



Boa. 



Xiphosoma. 



Stenostoma. 



There are a good many genera which are found in the Sonoran 

 district, which do not occur in other parts of the Nearctic realm. 

 These genera are frequently confined to it, but when they are not. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



thej' are to be looked for in the Mexican region of the Neotropical 

 realm. I give a list of these genera, with a corresponding one 

 of the Mexican region, to illustrate the extent of the similarity 

 between the two regions. 



K. Sonoriana. 



Plagopterinae. 



Ileloderma. 



Crotaphytus. 



Uta. 



Uma. 



Callisaurus. 



Gyalopium. 

 Phimothyra. 

 Trimorphodon. 

 Hj'psiglena. 



Pisces. 



Reptilta. 

 Lacertilia. 



R. Mexicana. 



Ileloderma. 



Ophidia, 



Ficimia. 

 Phimothyra. 

 Trimorphodon. 

 Hypsiglena. 



It seems then that the Neotropical relationships of the Sonoran 

 region are not great. In this consideration I have omitted the 

 genera which are common to the Mexican region and the Nearctic 

 realm in general. Such are Hanidae, Gnemidophorus, Sceloporus, 

 Bascanium, Tropidonotus, Eiitsenia^ Pityophis, Spilotes, OpMboliis 

 and Elaps. These forms serve to indicate the affinit}' between 

 the Nearctic realm and the Mexican region. The line between 

 the two is, however, not yet exactly drawn. The former extends 

 on the west coast at least as far south as Gua3mas, and on the 

 plateau as far as Guanajuato. On the east coast the Neotropical 

 fauna reaches near to the Rio Grande. See On the Zoological 

 Position of Texas, bj^ the writer ,in Bulletin U. S. National Museum, 

 No. 20, August, 1880; and Eleventh Contribution to the Her- 

 petology of Tropical America, by E. D. Cope, Proceedings Amer. 

 Philosoph. Society, 1879, p. 267. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



January 23. 

 Tlie President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twent3^-six persons present. 



Ovipositing of Argynnis cyhele. — Mr. H. Skinner remarked 

 that he had noticed a female of Argynnis cyhele acting as though 

 it were ovipositing, and seeing that it behaved in a peculiar 

 manner, he was led to watch its proceedings carefull3\ Instead of 

 attaching or cementing its eggs to the plant on which the young 

 or larvae are destined to feed, which is the usual habit of butterflies 

 and moths, it hovered about a foot in height over a bed of violets, 

 and at intervals would remain stationar^^ and drop an egg from 

 this distance to the food plant below. This seemed a remarkable 

 procedure, inasmuch as it differed from the method which has 

 been found to be so constant in this order. It remains to be seen 

 whether this species always drops it .eggs from a height, or only 

 behaves in the peculiar manner occasionally while ovipositing. 

 Also whether the other species of the genus Argynnis lay their 

 eggs in a like manner. He thought it quite likely that A. myrina 

 and A: heUona do so occasionally, as the}' differ from the other 

 butterflies in the readiness with which they lay their eggs. He 

 had known them to oviposit in chip boxes or other receptacles in 

 which they were confined. He knew of no other species which 

 behave thus. It had been stated that the species of the genus 

 feed only on violets, which was probably not the case. 



The following, received through the Botanical Section, was 

 ordered to be printed : — 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



ON QUERCUS DURANDII P.uoklcv. 

 BY CHARLES MOHR. 



The rediscovery of this fine tree in Alabama adds now definitely 

 another one to the number of oaks known to inhabit the forests 

 east of the Mississippi River. First discovered by Prof. Buckley 

 in 1841 in Wilcox County, Alabama, it was described from spec- 

 imens collected near Austin, Texas, twenty years afterwards. I 

 had occasion to stud^^ the tree in several localities in its western 

 home during- ray investigations of the forest growth of south- 

 western Texas, in December, 1880; subsequently I directed mj- 

 attention to its rediscovery in the eastern Gulf region, and par- 

 ticularly iu Alabama. After a fruitless search through three 

 seasons, I was finally rewarded at the close of the one just passed, 

 in finding this oak in the woods covering the limestone ridges 

 bordering the Little Cahabe River in Bibb Count}', Alabama. 



The largest of the trees observed measured 2 feet in diameter 

 by an estimated height of about 70 feet. The trunk divides at a 

 height from 30 to 35 feet above the ground ; the heaA\y primary 

 limbs are erect, tall, and the head of the tree is of an oblong 

 shape ; it resembles in the habit of growth greatly the white oak ; 

 the bark is close, more so than in the Texan tree, where it is found 

 inclined to be somewhat flaky, of a bright, almost pure white 

 color, by which it is at once distinguished from the latter. There 

 is scarcely a tree which shows greater variation in the size and 

 shape of its leaves, which were at the date of its rediscover}', 11th 

 November, for the greatest pai't shed. Only on some late, vig- 

 orous shoots, was the foliage yet fresh and green found to persist. 

 The leaves are short petioled, from 2 to 3^ inches in length, and 

 from 1 to 2^ inches at their greatest width, always attenuated at 

 the base. They are either roundish, ovate or obovate towards 

 the apex, largeh' dilated, irregularly and obtusely, more or less 

 deeph' three-lobed, or narrowed to lanceolate with shallow, distant 

 lobes, a mere wavy or entire margin. Of a firm texture, tlie leaves 

 are pubescent along the veins beneath when older, with a fine, 

 close, pale tomentum. 



The fruit is of annual maturation and (at least during this 

 season) produced in abundance, short peduncled to sessile, single, 

 iu pairs or in clusters of three and four; small, from three-eighths 




38 PROCEEraNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



to five-eighths of an inch long. Tlie niit is perfectly smooth, 

 shining, of a light tan-color, ovate, somewhat narrowed towards 

 the base, with the apex slightly compressed and umbonate to 

 about one-third of its length, immersed in a shallow cup with 

 closely appressed, slight, knobby and smoothish scales. The nut 

 is sweet and regarded as the best of mast. The acorns seem to 

 germinate in situations more or less exposed to light ; the large 

 trees are in more open situations found suri-ounded by their 

 numerous offspring in all stages of growth. 



From the limited knowledge we possess, but little can be said 

 of the distribution of this oak. So far as known, it is confined to 

 a calcareous soil, be it on the rocky uplands or in the bottom lands, 

 the soil of which in western Texas consists of a fine calcareous silt. 

 It seems not to occur west of the basin of the Colorado River; it 

 was not found near New Braunfels or around San Antonio; on 

 the dry, rocky hills near Austin, it scarceh' reaches the dimensions 

 of a middle-sized tree ; in the I'ich bottom of the lower (Juadeloupe 

 it attains the proportion of the larger trees of the forest; there a 

 number of trees were measured and found from 2 to fully 3 feet 

 in diameter. One felled to the ground measured 37 inciies through 

 and 86 feet in length, being perfectly sound. In such localities 

 most favorable to its development, it is esteemed as the most 

 valuable of the timber trees ; in its quality equal to the best of 

 white oak timber, it enters into all the manifold uses to which the 

 latter is applied, and which render the white oak of such great 

 importance. 



As far as known, the tree has not been found in eastern Texas, 

 Louisiana, Mississippi, and the northern part of Alabama. In the 

 latter State it seems in its northern extension confined to the 

 southern edge of the silurian limestone formation at the 33° of 

 latitude, at an elevation not exceeding 250 or 300 feet above the 

 Gulf of Mexico. In reply to several inquiries made since, in regard 

 to its occurrence in the central and lower part of th«- State, where 

 the tree is called " Bastard Oak," it has become evident that it is not 

 rare southward throughout the cretaceous belt on the rocky banks 

 lining the water courses, to the tertiary limestone hills below. Its 

 absence in the extensive territory between the latter and the calca- 

 reous hills on the Colorado River, nearly TOO miles to thewestward, 

 can be accounted for by the prevailing sandy or argillaceous soils 

 quite destitute of lime, wliose i)resence seems to be a necessary 

 requirement for its growth. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



January 30. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" XJrnatella gracilis," by Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



" On the Extinct Peccaries of North America," by Joseph 

 Leidy, M. D. 



" The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Society Islands," by 

 Andrew Garrett. 



The death of John Wister, a member, was announced. 



Hybrid Birds. — Chas. Townsend referred to the rare occurrence 

 of hybridity among N. Am. Pai^seres, and stated that two species 

 of native warblers had recently been found to be hj-brids, between 

 species of the genus Helminthophaga. He exhibited a bird taken 

 by Mr. W. L. Baily in Dec, 1882, near Haverford College, Pa., 

 which proved to be a hybrid between the Snowbird and the 

 White-throated Sparrow, birds of different genera, which was 

 more remarkable. 



After referring to the marks of hybrid origin borne by some 

 doubtful species, handed down b}' the earlier ornithologists, he 

 remai'ked that hybridity would doubtless be found a sufficient 

 explanation for many obscure species that are standing puzzles 

 to the ornithologists of to-day. 



Mr. Chas. Morris was elected a member of the Council, to fill the 

 vacancj^ caused by the election of Dr. Ruschenberger as Curator. 



The following were elected members : — 



F. A. Genth, Jr., Clarence R. Claghorn, G. Howard Parker, 

 John B. Deaver, M. D., Wm. L. Springs, H. T. Cresson, Jacob L. 

 Wortman and Emily G. Hunt. 



February 6. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "A new Extinct Genus of Sirenia," b}' Edw, 

 D. Cope, was presented for publication. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1888. 



On a supjxjsed Human Implement from the Gravel at Phila- 

 delphia. — Professor H. Carvill Lewis stated that through the 

 kindness of Mr. John Sartain, the well-known engraver of this 

 city, a supposed stone implement had come into his hands, which, 

 from the circumstances in which it was found, becomes of great 

 interest. In digging a pit below the cellar of the house No. 728 

 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, after passing through regularly 

 stratified layers of gravel and sand, a loose, clean " water gravel " 

 was reached at a depth of 24 feet from the surface of the street. 

 The grade of the street is here about 35 feet above the mean level 

 of the Delaware River, and the depth of the drift deposits, as 

 shown by an artesian-well boring at the Continental Hotel, a few 

 hundred feet distant, is 45 feet, gneiss rock being reached at that 

 depth. The drift deposits consist of the usual alternations of 

 sand and gravel with occasional streaks of clay, the whole being 

 horizontally stratified. 



The specimen was found at a depth of 24 feet in a loose gravel, 

 where Avater flowed freely, and lay beneath a series of horizontally 

 stratified layers of gravel and clay, which were entirely undis- 

 turbed, and were as originally deposited. Mr. Sartain saw the 

 specimen taken out and testifies as to the aocurac}' of the above 

 statement. 



The supposed implement is an oblong rectangle in shape, 16^ 

 inches in length, nearly 4 inches in width, and in thickness varjing 

 from i inch at the edge to 1^ inches at the centre. It is ground 

 to a smooth cutting-edge at the two extremities. It is rectangular 

 in section, the sides forming right-angles with the faces. The 

 sides are parallel with each other, but the faces are undulating 

 surfaces, on one of which is a ])rominent longitudinal ridge, an 

 inch and a half in width. 



Each end of the implement appears to have been smoothly 

 ground to form a st^uare, even cutting-edge, an equal amount 

 of grinding having been done on either side. Both extremities 

 are similar. The implement is as unusual in shape as it is in size. 

 It is double the length of ordinary- celts, and was possibly a 

 lapstone of some kind. 



The late Professor Haldeman, who examined the specimen, 

 expressed great interest in it, and pronounced it undoubtedly of 

 human workmanship.^ 



' Mr. E. A. Barber, a well-knowii archaeologist, repoi'ts, after a close 

 examination of the implement, as follows:— "The peculiar marking 

 or pecking shows it to be undoubtKlly artificial. This pecking is charac- 

 teristic of many pestles and other heavy stone implements found in 

 this part of the country. There are certain small surfaces (the sides and 

 part of the face) which have not beeh worked, but tlie greater part of the 

 implement has been aitificially pecked, and the ends have been ground 

 down by abrasion, as may distinctly be seen. The character and use of the 

 implement are not indicated by its shape, but there is no doubt at all as to 

 its artificial workmanship." 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Professor Lewis was not prepared to express such a positive 

 opinion as to its artificial origin. The straight, jjarallel sides of 

 the specimen, resemble the form of natural cleavage fragments of 

 some sandstones and flagstones. Such cleavage fragments are 

 frequently harder in the centre than along the edges, tiiis being 

 the result of a concretionary force, and if the specimen has been 

 shaped by subsequent water action, the harder central portion 

 w^ould resist action and form the lidge already described. The 

 regular bevelling at each extremity woukl, however, be a very 

 unusual form to be i)roduced by natural erosive forces. 



The implement, if such it be, would be the first that has been 

 discovered in the Philadelphia gravel, and would become of great 

 interest in its bearing upon the antiquity of man on the Delaware. 

 The implements found by Dr. Abbott in thegra. elat Trenton are 

 of a much more rude t^'pe, being closel}' allied in sljape with the 

 palteolithic implements of the river drift of several European 

 localities. They are never ground down to an edge like the speci- 

 men now described, but are rudely chipped. The Trenton imple- 

 ments, moreover, arc made from Triassic argillite, while this one 

 is made from a compact yellowish-brown sandstone. 



As the speaker had endeavored to show in a former communi- 

 cation,' the Trenton gravel is a post-glacial deposit made at the time 

 of the final disappearance of glaciers from the headwaters of the 

 Delaware, while the Philadelphia red gravel is somewhat older, 

 having been formed during the glacial epoch at a time when this 

 region was depressed 150-180 feet low^er than its present level. 

 Both gravels are true river gravels. 



Prom the geographical position of the locality where the imple- 

 ment was found, it is probable that it belongs to the older of the 

 two gravels. As, however, Professor Lewis had not seen the gravel 

 at this place, judgment was reserved upon this point. 



It would, indeed, be a curious fact if it were proved that an 

 implement of neolithic type belonged to a gravel older than that 

 which contained only palaeolithic implements. 



Should the specimen under consideration really belpng to the 

 gravel, and be proved to be artificial, it will carry back the antiquitj' 

 of man to glacial times — an antiquity already assigned by numerous 

 discoveries elsewhere. Unlike as this is to the palaeolithic imple- 

 ments of Trenton, it is b}- no means the first neolithic implement 

 reported from a river gravel. 



Mr. John Ford- has discovered a polished stone axe in the 

 gravel forming the outer blufl[' of the Mississippi River, near 

 Alton, 111., which is of great interest. This axe, now in the 

 archfeological collection of the Academy, was taken b}' Mr. Ford 

 from a perpendicular face of gravel freshl}' cut and exposed by a 

 road cutting ; and, accompanied by a number of fossil land and 



I Proc. Acad. Nat.- Sc. (Min. and Geol. Section), Nov, 24, 1879. 

 ■' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila,, 1877, p. 305. 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



fresb-water shells of Quaternary age, a bone of Canis, and a 

 specimen of lignite, lay at a depth of twenty feet in the gravel, 

 and at an elevation of 50 feet above the river. Mr. Ford states 

 that " the wall referred to presented in every part a solid front, 

 without fissure or crevice, everywhere hard and impenetrable 

 except by pick or crowbar, and yet twenty feet under the surface, 

 within this strong matrix deposited by water thousands of years 

 ao-o, laid the evidence of the presence of the man of the period, a 

 stone axe artistically made, and doubtless used for the purposes 

 of battle." The implement .thus found b}- Mr. Ford is more finely 

 finished than that from the Philadelphia gravel. It is made of 

 hard syenite. 



The implements said to occur in the auriferous gravels of Cali- 

 fornia, described b}- Professor Whitney and otiiers, and those 

 from the loes»of the Missouri Valley in Nebraska, discovered by 

 Professor Aughey, are also of neolithic type, the California 

 implements being as perfect as anything now made. 



It may be, therefore, that in America rudeness of workman- 

 ship is not necessarily associated with great antiquity. 



Opportunit}' is here taken to refer to a recent paper by Professor 

 H W. Haynes,' entitled " Some indications of an early race of 

 men in New England," in which the author describes some rough 

 fraoments of granite and quartzite found in various localities in 

 Massachusetts, Yermont, and New Hampshire, which he considers 

 to be rude forms of implements, more primitive than those of the 

 Delaware gravels, and which are therefore to be regarded as relics 

 of primeval man. 



These objects are of various shapes, sometimes pointed, some- 

 times with sharp edges all around, and frequently sharp on one 

 side and irregular on the other. These latter w'ere regarded as 

 implements adapted for being held in the hand for use in chop- 

 ping or cutting. All these forms are of ruder type and coarser 

 fabinc than the implements of the Trenton gravel. They were 

 found at localities where none of the ordinary traces of Indian 

 occupation- could be discovered, and the author infers from them 

 the former existence in New England of a race of men difiereut 

 from and less advanced than the Indians. 



With characteristic courtesy, Professor Haynes invited the 

 speaker to make a personal examination of his full collection of 

 these interesting objects. 



A careful study of each specimen convinced Professor Lewis 

 that the angularity of these rock fragments, while often resembling 

 that of artificial forms, is in reality due to natural causes rather 

 than to any human workmanship. Cleavage and frost-fracture 

 and W'Cathering planes appear to have been the sole agents in the 

 production of the greater part of these forms. Upon most of the 

 specimens examined. Professor Lewis w^as able to detect traces of 



1 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., xxi, p. 383, Feb. 1, 1883. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



the original cleavage or weathering planes parallel to certain sides 

 of the fragment, which clearl_y indicated their mode of formation. 

 Similar fi'agments occur in almost every portion of the country, 

 their shape varying with the material of which tliey are formed. 

 Professor Haynes himself states in the paper referred to, 

 " Wherever it has been in my power to make the long and labor- 

 ious search that is required, I have succeeded in finding them," 

 etc. It is repdil}' understood how a skilled archs>?ologist, accus- 

 tomed to find a use for every rude implement, would naturally 

 find design also in the close imitations made by Nature. 



Among these objects of natural origin there were also a very 

 few which bore traces of human handiwork, some of these being 

 apparent!}' " skin-scrapers." These latter often occur with the most 

 highly finished Indian arrow-heads, and offer, therefore, no evi- 

 dence of high antiquity. The cases where the same Indian tribe 

 has manufactured implements of the finest workmanship at the 

 same time with those of rudest make, each being intended for 

 diflferent uses, are so numerous as to need onl}' to be mentioned.^ 



Returning finally to the supposed implement from the Phila- 

 delphia gravel, now brought before the attention of the Academ3^ 

 Professor Lewis stated that he did not desire to urge any one 

 interpretation of it, but merely to offer some particulars which 

 might not otherwise see the light, and to show their meaning if 

 verified hereafter. Whatever value might be attached to the cir- 

 cumstances of the discovery of this specimen or to its apparent 

 artificial origin, it would at least serve to stimulate a further 

 search for evidences of man in the gravels underlying the city. 



An implement found in a thickly populated district, more 

 especiall}' as it occurred in a shifting water gravel, would always 

 be open to suspicion, and at all events a single specimen is not 

 sufficient upon which to base the broad conclusions which would 

 otherwise be warranted. 



Note on a Drilled 3Iall in the Haldeman Collection of 

 Antiquities. — Mr. H. T. Cresson called attention to a large drilled 

 mall or hammer-head of stone, from the Haldeman collection of 

 antiquities. It was found at Peach Bottom, Lancaster County, 

 Pennsylvania, in 1866, and weighs eight and three-quarter pounds. 

 Most pre-historic hammer-heads or stone malls, consist of oval 

 pebbles, small boulders of quartzite, granite, or other hard mate- 

 rials, which show modification by the hand of man, and have 

 generally undergone more or less of pecking and polishing to bring 

 them into a required shape. The mall exhibited did not possess 

 any groove, but had a drilled hole for the insertion of a haft, which 



> At a ixeeting of the Academy held a week ago, Mr. Aubrey H. Smith 

 presented two Indian implements picked up by himself on the shores of 

 the Loyalsock Cieek, Lycoming Co., Pa., where they lay side by side. One 

 was a rudely chipped implement like those of the Trenton gravel, while 

 the other was a delicately formed arrow-point. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



is of rare occurrence in any form of axes or 'hammers belonging 

 to our American Indians, except in the case of ceremonial weapons. 

 The length of the haft-hole in this mall is four and a half inches; 

 but its width of one inch, which in the drilling from either end 

 toward the centre, narrows to half an inch, does not seem to be 

 sufficient in comparison with its size to warrant the insertion of 

 a handle ; for this reason the speaker was inclined to believe that 

 it was in an unfinished condition. Malls have been found in the 

 ancient copper mines at Keeweenaw Point and Isle Royal in Lake 

 Superior without grooves for hafting, and occasionall}' with double 

 grooves. There are malls in use at present among the Sioux 

 Indians for breaking bones and pounding pemmican, but these are 

 firmly encased in raw hide, except that portion of the head used 

 in striking. The occurrence of this kind of haft-hole, excepting 

 as before stated in the ceremonial weapons, is not often seen, 

 resembling in this respect some of the neolithic malls and hammers 

 of the eastern continent. 



February 13. 

 The President, Dr, Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"A new ITnio from Florida," by Berlin H. Wright. 



" Notes on the Birds of Westmoreland Co., Penna.," by Chas. 

 H. Townsend. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing the 

 following papers in the Journal of the Academ}^ : — 



" Urnatella gracilis," by Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



" On the Extinct Peccaries of North America," by Jos. Leidy, 

 M. D. 



" The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Society Islands," by 

 Andrew Garrett. 



Change of Color in a Katydid. — Professor Lewis recorded a 

 curious instance of modification in color in the case of a katydid, 

 where the normal light green tint had been replaced by a bright 

 scarlet, the complementaiy color. The insect, which was found at 

 Point Pleasant, N. J., differs in no way from the common katydid, 

 Cyrtophyllum concavum Sa}', except in the unusual color. 



On the Reproduction and Parasites of Anodonta fiuviatilis. — 

 Prof. Leidy directed attention to a basketful of living fresh-water 

 mussels, Anodonta fiuviatilis^ which were obtained for him through 

 the kindness of Rev. Jesse' Y. Burke, and are now placed at the 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



disposal of members who wish to have them. The}'^ are fine robust 

 specimens, the larger ones measuring 6 inches in length by 3 inches 

 in height and almost 2^ inches in thickness. They were obtained 

 from a little pond occupying an old marl pit, near Clarksboro, 

 Gloucester Co., X. J. 



These mussels appear to be exceedingly prolific. The px'egnant 

 females have the branchial uteri, as they have been appropriately 

 named by Dr. Isaac Lea, enormously distended with perfected 

 embryos. These appear with a cinnamon-brown shell, having a 

 conspicuous spinous tooth or hook to each valve, and are furnished 

 with long bj-ssal threads. Wishing to ascertain the proportionate 

 amount of embryos, the following plan was adopted : — In an indi- 

 vidual 6 inches long the soft parts were weighed and found to be 

 135*44 grammes. The branchial uteri weighed 64 grammes and 

 the inner gills 7*34 grammes. Supposing the latter to be of the 

 same weight as the outer gills, free from embryos, this weight 

 subtracted would leave 56"66 grammes as that of the embr3'os,and 

 78*78 grammes as the weight of the rest of the animal. In another 

 specimen in which the weight of the soft parts was 113*75 grammes, 

 the branchial uteri weighed 45*5 grammes, and the inner gills 5*2 

 grammes. Subtracting the weight of these would leave 40*3 

 grammes as the weight of the embryos, and 73*45 grammes for the 

 rest of the animal. In another specimen b}' weight, and counting, 

 the embryos in a milligramme were estimated to be 1,280,000. 



The mussels are infested with many water mites creeping about 

 among the gills. The young of the same, in various stages, were 

 observed imbedded in the mantle. The mite appears to be iden- 

 tical with the species Atax ypsilophorus^ which is a parasite of the 

 common mussel, Anodonta cygnea, of Europe. It was discovered 

 and described just 100 j-ears ago, under the name Aca7^us ypsilo- 

 phorus, by Dr. Christophori Gottlieb Bonz (Nova Acta Phj's. Med. 

 Acad. C. L. C. Nat. Cur., Nuremberg, 1783, 52, Tab. I, figs. 1-4). 

 It is described and figured Iw Pfeitfer, with the name of Linino- 

 chares Anodonfee (Naturg. deutscher land und shss-wasser Mol- 

 luskeu, 1821, Taf I, fig. 12); by Dr. Karl Ernst v. Baer, under 

 the name of Hydrachne concharum (Nova Acta, Bonn, 1826, 590, 

 Taf. XXIX, fig. 19) ; by P. J. van Beneden (Mem. de I'Acad. R. 

 des Sciences de Belgique, XXIV, 1850), and by Ed. Claparede 

 (Zeits. f. wiss. Zoologie, 1868, 445). 



Dr. Bonz's description, referring chiefly to the form, color and 

 marking of the mite, applies to ours ; and further he thought the 

 description of the details, of Claparede, applies sufllciently well 

 to the same. 



The characters of our mite are briefl}" as follows : — 



Body ovoid, black, with a sulphur-yellow median line, often 

 more or less interrupted, foi'ked in front, and ending in an angular 

 spot behind. The yellow marking divides the black into a pair 

 of lateral reniform spots and an anterior irregular lozenge spot. 

 Sides brown, from the eggs shining through. Head gray, with 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



dumb-bell e^^e-spots. Limbs gray, translucent, with the chitinous 

 investment bluish black, hirsute, ending in pairs of double falcate 

 ungues. Terminal joint of the palps ending in three minute 

 uncinate denticles. Anal plates of the females usually with about 

 18 to 22 acetabula to each. Length of body 1-375 to 1-75 mm., 

 breadth 1-12.5 to 1-5 mm. Inhabits the ' branchiae and mantle of 

 Anodonta fiuviatilis. 



The colors depend mainly on the contents shining through the 

 transparent chitinous investment, Avhich under reflected light 

 exhibits a bluish-black tint. Commonly the black color is intense ; 

 and in alcoholic specimens the whole body is black. In several 

 individuals the black passed into a chocolate hue. Dr. Bonz 

 describes the European mite as black, with the median dorsal 

 mark pale yellow ; Pfeiffer as red-l)rown with a citron-yellow 

 mark, and Beneden says it shows a Y in white, from which it was 

 named. 



The number of acetabula to the anal plates is variable ; in one 

 mite he found 23 to each plate, in a second 22 to each, in a third 

 22 to one and 17 to the other, and in a fourth 18 to one and 17 to 

 the other. Claparede gives from 15 to 20 tis the number to each 

 plate in the European mite. 



The variations of our mite, from the ciiaracters given of the 

 European mite, are such as occur among individuals of either, and 

 he therefore saw nothing distinguishing ours as a different species. 

 Claparede descrilies another mite which infests the European 

 Unios, which he distinguishes under the name of Atax Bonzi. The 

 speaker had also observed a different mite, infesting the common 

 mussel, Unio complanatus, o{ the Delaware River; of this mite he 

 . exhibited a drawing made in November, 1854. He suspected it 

 to be the Atax Bonzi; but the question can only be more positively 

 answered after the examination of certain details, which he hoped 

 soon to have the opportunity of making. 



If our two parasitic mites are identical with those of European 

 mussels, it not only makes it appear probable that they are of 

 common origin, but renders it the more probable that this is like- 

 wise the case with their hosts, even if these are not regarded of 

 the same species. 



Professor Leidy also exhibited a collection of bodj'-lice, 

 Pediculus vestivienti, from Jews of Odessa, Russia, presented b}- 

 Dr. A. G. Stratton. They range in size from 1-25 to 3-875 mm. in 

 length, and appear in no respect to differ from those found on 

 natives of our own countr}'. 



The Ice of the Glacial Period. — Professor Heilprin, referring 

 to the subject of glaciation, stated that in his opinion the vast 

 sheet of ice which is generall}^ supposed to have covered during 

 the great ice age a considerable portion of the northern regions of 

 the European and North American continents, could not have had 

 its origin, as is maintained by most geologists, in a polar " ice-cap," 




1883.] . NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4T 



since it ma}- reasonably be doubted whether there could ever have 

 been formed in the extreme North an accumulation of snow and 

 ice of a magnitude sufficient to propel southward a glacier, with 

 an estimated thickness of several thousands of feet, to a distance 

 of hundreds of miles, and up mountain slopes to heights equaling 

 five or six thousand feet. The magnitude (as to height) to which 

 such a snow accumulation ma^' attain, will be dependent upon two 

 conditions — (1). the quantit}' of aqueous (snow) precipitation, and 

 (2), the upper limit in the atmosphere reached by clouds. It is 

 well known that clouds, as a rule, rise highest in the regions of 

 highest temperature — the equatorial — where the vapor absorption 

 by tlie atmosphere is greatest, and where the planes of aqueous 

 condensation are most distantl}' removed from the earth's surface ; 

 and, likewise, they rise higher in summer than in winter. The 

 minimum rise will necessaril^^be in the extreme North (or South), 

 and during the period of greatest cold, or winter. High (discharge) 

 clouds are a rarity in the polar regions, and consequently precipi- 

 tation will be mainl}^ restricted to a comparatively low atmospheric 

 zone. Above this zone, which will mark the upper limit of the 

 " ice-cap," there can be but little snow accumulation. As a matter 

 of fact, the officers of various Arctic expeditions have repeatedly 

 noted that the high mountain-crests and elevations in the far North 

 were frequentlj' devoid of a snow covering, and that there was but 

 very little precipitation, even over the low lands, during the winter, 

 heavy precipitations setting in only with the spring months. The 

 highest snow-clad elevation in the region of greatest cold (the West) , 

 in Greenland, appears to be Washington Land, Avith an estimated 

 height of six thousand feet, which gives rise to the great Humboldt 

 Glacier. Although this peak is completely buried under a mantle 

 of snow (of undetermined thickness, however), it may jet safely 

 be doul)ted whether snow of an}- great thickness (unless under a 

 much warmer climate), could accumulate on a summit of much 

 greater elevation. If not, this elevation, in the opinion of the 

 speaker, was entirely inadequate to account for the southward 

 propulsion of a glacier to the extent required by geologists. 



Professor Lewis remarked that notwithstanding the difficulties 

 in a theoretical explanation, the fact of a great continuous glacier 

 at the time of maximum glaciation seemed clearly indicated, at 

 least in America, by the numerous observations recent!}' made. 

 He described the extent of the glacier in America, as indicated 

 by its terminal moraine, and stated that the close similarity of its 

 phenomena at distant portions of its southern edge indicated a 

 continuous ice-sheet. The continuous motion of its upper portion 

 is shown by the uniform direction of glacial stria? upon elevated 

 points. Thus the S. W. direction of the striae upon the mountain 

 tops of N. E. Penna., was identical with that upon the Overlook 

 Mountain of the Catskills, and of that upon the summits of the 

 Laurentians of Canada. The strise at lower elevations conformed 

 more or less to the valleys, and did not indicate the general move- 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



ment of the ice. The thickness of the glacier increased northward, 

 the rate of increase diminishing as its source is approached. This 

 latter point has not heretofore been appreciated, although observed 

 some time ago b^' Dr. Ha3'es in the case of the Greenland glacier. 



Recent observations by the speaker in Pennsylvania had shown 

 the glacier to be 800 feet thick at a point five miles north of its 

 extreme southern edge, and 2000 feet thick at a point eight miles 

 from its edge, while it was only about 3100 feet thick one hundred 

 miles farther northeast, and about 5000 feet thick three hundred 

 miles back from its edge. The amount of erosion caused by it upon 

 rock surfaces was in some degree a measure of its thickness, being 

 far greater in Canada, even upon the hard Laurentian granites of 

 that region, than in Pennsylvania, where even soft and friable 

 rocks were but slightly eroded. 



The present thickness of the glacier in central (Greenland was 

 considered, and the magnitude of certain icebergs detached from 

 it was given. A friend of the speaker had, within a few months, 

 seen a floating iceberg near the coast of Newfoundland, which 

 stood 800 feet above the water by measurement, and may have 

 been therefore nearly a mile in depth. Dr. Hayes saw an iceberg- 

 aground in water nearly half a mile deep. 



That the great glacier flowed up steep inclines was abundantly 

 proven by recent observations of the speaker in Pennsylvania. He 

 instanced the strine covering the north flank of the Kittatinn}- 

 Mountain, and a boulder of limestone perched on the summit 

 which, within a distance of three miles, had been carried up 800 

 feet vertically. 



Referring to a paper recently published by Mr. W. J. McGee, 

 who found difficulties similar to those of Professor Heilprin in 

 the assumption of a polar ice-cap of great thickness, aijd who 

 imagined the glacier to increase by additions to its outer rim, the 

 speaker held that the single fact of the transportation by the glacier 

 of far-traveled boulders to its terminal moraine, was a fatal objec- 

 tion to any such h3'pothesis. 



Nor did he believe that the hj^pothesis adopted by Professor 

 Dana and others, of a great elevation of land in the North, was a 

 probable one The facts now in the possession of geologists do 

 not indicate such a great and local upheaval as required by that 

 hypothesis. 



An explanation, therefore, must still be sought for the southward 

 flow of a continuous ice-sheet - a flow in some regions up-hill. The 

 action of gravity was certainly not sufficient. Even in the case 

 of the downward flow of the steeply- inclined Swiss glaciers, it had 

 been shown that gravit}' was more than counterbalanced by friction 

 of the sides and bottom, and that these glaciers moved by reason 

 of an inherent moving power of the molecules of the ice. It was 

 probable that similar action occurred in the great continental 

 glacier. 



He suggested, therefore, a hj^pothesis which, while preserving 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



the unity of the glacier, as indicated by observed facts, neither 

 assumed an unreasonable land elevation in polar regions, nor 

 required a thickness of ice so great as to be open to the objections 

 of the last speaker. 



He suggested that the ice-cap flowed south simpi}' because it 

 flowed toward a source of heat. Such flow does not depend upon 

 gravity, but would occur in a nearh' flat field of ice, and he thought 

 that the ice need not to have been more than a few times its 

 present thickness in Greenland to account for all existing phe- 

 nomena upon the hypothesis now suggested. 



Professor Heilprin maintained that we were unacquainted with 

 an^^ laws of glacial action which would accoiuit for the indis- 

 criminate progression of an ice-sheet toward a source of heat. 

 The molecular-expansion theory as applied to the glacial phe- 

 nomena of the Alps, took no cognizance of the position of the heat 

 power, but merely of that of least resistance (the direction of 

 slope 1. As to the magnitude of icebergs, the height above water 

 gave no positive indication as to the development (in depth) 

 beneath the surface, since this would largely depend upon the 

 form assumed b}- the berg. As a matter of fact, however, the 

 highest bergs observed l)y Hayes and Nares in the northern 

 regions, rose only about 300 ft. out of the water, a height some- 

 what exceeding the highest Antarctic bergs encountered by the 

 "Challenger." We had, therefore, no indications of any extra- 

 ordinary development of ice in Greenland. 



Chalcedony containing Liquid. — Professor H. Carvill Lewis 

 called attention to a geode of chalcedony from the Salto River, 

 Uraguay, presented by Mr. S. R Colbroun, of the United States 

 Nav}'. The specimen contained an unusual quantity of liquid — 

 from two to three drachms ; it was derived from an extensive 

 basaltic formation of amygdaloid and black melaphyr, and was 

 coated with a substance resembling asbestos. He described the 

 method of formation of such hollow masses of mammillary chalce- 

 dony as being endogenous and referred to an interesting paper 

 recentl}- published by I. Anson and Parkhurst upon the artificial 

 manufacture of chalcedon}'. 



On the Flowerinn of the Stapelia. — At the meeting of the 

 Botanical Section, February 12th, Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited 

 specimens of Stapelia hiifonia in various stages of growth, inflor- 

 escence and fruit, and pointed out that though there were axillary 

 buds of more or less prominence at the base of what we had to 

 call leaves, yet the flowers rarely proceeded from these, but from 

 lateral accessory buds. When the axillary buds developed, they 

 produced branches and not flowers. The lateral accessory buds 

 usually developed into minute abortive flowers, with a membranous 

 scale or bract in the place of the primary leaf These observations 

 were made on plants which had been planted in the open ground 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



during the summer and were repotted in tlie fall and replaced in 

 a warm greenhouse. The branches commented on had grown 

 since that time, and might be termed thc^'second growth of the 

 same season. When the plants were being potted, having more 

 than were needed, one was thrown carelessh' under the greenhouse 

 stage, where it shriveled considerably, but retained some vital 

 power, enough in fact to send down a few fibrous roots into the 

 earth. It had shriveled so as to be reduced to about half its 

 normal weight. Its behavior nnder these conditions had not 

 been observed till a few da^s since this date, when an examination 

 showed that the greater portion of the axillary buds had developed 

 into minute flowers, as in the case of the accessor}' buds under 

 the normal condition. Some of these, judging by their dry remains, 

 had grown to nearly one-fourth tlie usual size of the normal flowers, 

 though most of them were much smaller. In these cases no 

 lateral accessory buds had been produced. , A perfect flower from 

 a healthy pot-plant was exhibited, but not more than two-thirds 

 the size of those produced in the growth of the first part of the 

 season when the plant was in the open air. Numbers had been 

 produced during the winter from tlie accessory buds at the base 

 of the secondary growths. One of these had borne a fine seed- 

 vessel, which was also exhibited. No seed-vessels had followed 

 the numerous stronger flowers produced by the plants in the open 

 air during the summer. 



In commenting on these facts, Mr. Meehan pointed out their 

 harmony with others bearing on the relation between nutrition 

 and the various phases of the vegetative and reproductive con- 

 ditions of vegetation. Morphologically every development from 

 the bud to the fruit is primarilj- the same. We imagine all these 

 developments to be founded on a primary leaf or leaves. Just 

 when and how the various stages of development are brought 

 about it is for physiology to determine. The student of fruit and 

 forest trees knows that a rapid-growing young tree does not flower, 

 and often when it commenced to flower, no fruit followed. Its 

 vegetative vigor had to be somewhat checked before the repro- 

 ductive forces induced flowers. The gardener brings about this 

 condition by root-pruning or ringing, that is, taking ofi" a portion 

 of the bark of the vigorous tree. Transplanting often makes a 

 barren tree fruitful. What would have been leaves, become petals 

 and parts of fructification in the transplanted tree. He had him- 

 self placed on record many illustrations of this. The Wista7'ia 

 and other climbing plants might flower, but rarely produce fruit 

 when growing vigorously over trees or trellises, but as soon as 

 branches were thrown otf which could not attach themselves to 

 snpports, these lost their vigor, and the flowers produced seeds. 

 But even when seeds resulted from the flowers of the Wistaria, 

 they wei'e rarelj' from the most vigorous at the commencement 

 of the raceme, but onl}- after the weaker flowers had been reached 

 By a careful count, in many hundred cases he had found that in 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



racemes of the Wistaria which had produced seed-vessels, some 

 forty or fifty flowers, on the average, faded before one produced 

 seed. 



These observations on Stapelia were of a similar character. 

 The axillary buds, in the normal condition of the plant, resulted 

 in branches onl}-, the flowers proceeding only from the weaker 

 lateral accessor}^ ones. But when the vegetative powers of the 

 plant are weakened, the axillary buds become flowering ones. 

 The rarity with which seed-vessels are produced by the Stapelia 

 under cultivation, he thought, might possibly be traced to some 

 cause relating to nutrition, rather than to matters connected with 

 pollination. 



The ob-5ervations were made solely on these winter-growing 

 plants, as illustrated by the specimens exhibited ; how far they 

 might be paralleled by open air growth during the summer, the 

 speaker could not say. 



The following paper was ordei'ed to be printed : — 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



ON A NEW EXTINCT GENUS OF SIRENIA, FROM SOUTH CAROLINA. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Mr. Gabriel Manigault, the accomplished director of the Museum 

 of the University of South Carolina, at Charleston, has placed in 

 m}' hands for determination an interesting fossil of that region. 

 It is the greater part of the right premaxillary bone of a large 

 sirenian mammal, containing the large incisor tooth or tusk char- 

 acteristic of the genus Halitheriuvi. It, however, exhibits the 

 peculiarity of possessing, exterior to this tusk, a second large 

 tooth, which is probably also an incisor. This character distin- 

 guishes the form generically from other members of the order. 

 In Prorastomas Owen, there are an inferior incisor and a canine 

 not of sirenian type, but probably no superior incisors, or if 

 present, they are minute and conic. I propose that the genus be 

 named Dioplotherium. The only form with which it is necessary 

 to compare it is Hemicaulodon Cope,^ the number of whose incisor 

 teeth is unknown. The one from which the genus is known, has 

 a dense external sheath of cementiim, which is wanting from the 

 present genus. 



The color of the specimen indicates that it belongs to the blue- 

 gray marl of the Carolinian (Heilprin) mioeene of our Atlantic 

 reo-ion. It has, however, been exposed to the action of the water 

 of a later sea, as it carries the bases of several Balani. 



The premaxillary bone differs from that of the Halitherium 

 minor Cuv. {E. serresi Gerv.) and ff. cajjgrandi Lart,, in the 

 much shorter sjnuphysis. The nareal border is also shorter, 

 judging from the position of the maxillar}^ suture, which is 

 further anterior than in the species named. The nareal border is 

 rounded and thickened, so as to overhang its lateral face at the 

 maxillar}' suture. The alveolus of the second incisor is large, and 

 is in close proximity to that of the first. Its posterior wall is 

 lost. Its fundus reaches to the maxillopremaxillary suture, but 

 as its anterior wall is entirely premaxillar}^, the tooth is probablj^ 

 an incisor, and not a canine. 



The anterior incisor is a tusk of flattened form, with a slight 

 taper from base to apex, and a narrow diamond-shaped section. 



' Proceedings Amer. Philos. Soc, 1869, p. 190, 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



53 



Two end-sides of the diamond whicii present anteriorly, are shorter 

 and more divergent than the posterior two. The latter encloses 

 a wedge-shaped space, with an obtuse apex. Thus the posterior 

 edge of the tooth is narrow and rounded. Of the anterior lateral 

 angles the external is the more prominent. The tusk is gently 

 curved outwards, and the posterior lateral face is also concave in 

 anteroposterior section. The pulp cavity enters the crown for 

 two-fifths of its length. The latter is composed of uniform dentine, 

 and there are no traces of cementum or enamel. There are trans- 

 verse bands of several delicate rugjc each, separated by considerable 

 spaces. I count eleven from apex to base. The tooth is also 

 obsoletely longitudinally striate, but cannot be called sulcate on 

 the external face. On the internal face the longitudinal concave 

 face is divided into a narrower and wider portion by a longitudinal 

 ridge which marks the middle of the shaft. The triturating surface 

 is narrow, and presents obliquely backwards. The projection of 

 the crown beyond the alveolar border is not more than one-fourth 

 the total length of the tooth. 



The second incisor tooth is lost. Its alveolus shows that its 

 form was less compressed than that of the first. While its size is 

 considerable, it is evidently less developed than the first. Its 

 anterior border slightly overlaps the posterior narrow edge of the 

 anterior tooth. 



Measurements. M, 



Vertical depth of premaxillary at septum between 



I. 1, and I. 2 



Length of ditto at middle of side, .... 



Length of symphysis, 



Length of first incisor. 



(anteroposterior, . 



Diameters do. at base \ ( anteriorly, 



; transverse - . •; ' 



V (posteriorly, 



.^. - ^ .^^ ('anteroposterior, . 



Diameters do. at '02 i ^ . , 



I anteriorly, 

 m. from apex, i transverse ' 



( 



posteriorly, 



Projection of do. beyond alveolus (about), . 

 Transverse diameter of alveolus of I. 2, anteriorly, 



128 

 118 

 126 

 176 

 050 

 027 

 Oil 

 037 

 020 

 007 

 053 

 025 



This species may be called Dioplotherium manigavlti. in honor 

 of Mr. Manigault, to whom the University of South Carolina 

 owes the present admirable condition of its Museum. The typical 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



specimen was found in or on the Wando River, northeast of the 

 city of Charleston. 



This genus furnishes a first step in tracing backwards the phj'- 

 logeny of the Sirenia. These animals doubtless present the same 

 phenomenon as that witnessed in the series of the Rhinoceroses, 

 Ruminants, and some others, viz., a gradual reduction in number, 

 and final extinction of the superior incisor teeth. In Rhijtina 

 the extinction is complete ; in Halicore one remains. Dioplo- 

 therium with two, forms the passage to the primitive tj'pes, not 

 yet known, which possessed three. They are considerably 

 specialized in the present genus, and a reduction of size is to be 

 looked for in the first ancestral genera of the Sirenia. 



Fi'om the proportions of the parts preserved, the Dioplotheriiim 

 vianigaulti was rather larger than a dugong. 



A portion of a Sirenian pelvis said to have been procured from 

 the same locality, Wando River, was given me by Mr. Jacob 

 Geismar. It resembles considerably that of Halifheriiim. A 

 portion of the ischium and pelvis is broken awa}', so that it is 

 not easy to determine positively whether there is an obturator 

 foramen or not. Their bases are, however, united for a considerable 

 distance beyond the acetabulum, and form a wide plate. The 

 ilium is a stout rod, expanding a little towards the crest, which is 

 broken away. The sacral articular surface is in two planes, one 

 the inner side, the other the posterior edge of the bone, and are 

 strongly impressed. The section of the shaft is subtriangular. 

 The acetabulum is small, has raised edges, and an irregular fossa 

 ligamenti teris notching its superior border. 



Measurements. 

 Length from acetabulum to sacral face, exclusive, . "052 

 Width acetabulum, -027 



• anteroposterior, . . "018 



Diameter shaft ilium, i . „ .mc 



' (transverse, . . . •015 




1883.] natural sciences of philadelpetra. 55 



February 20. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Fort3'-nine persons present. 

 The death of B. Howard Rand. M. D., a member, was announced. 



Notes Oil Prehistoric Copper Implements. — Mr. H. T. Cresson 

 made some remarks upon a hammer of native copper found in the 

 Bohemian Mine, at Greenland, Michisran, in 18fi6, by Mr. S. F. 

 Peck, and now in the Acadera3''s collection. It exhibits a distinct 

 laminar surface, caused by hammering pieces of native copper 

 together while in a cold state, a process in which our aborigines 

 living in districts north of Mexico, seemed to have acquired great 

 proficiency. This is shown by the numerous wedges, chisels, 

 hammers, and other articles found in the ancient mining-pits at 

 Keewenaw Point, Lake Superior, and at Isle Royal, togetlier with 

 axes, spear- and arrow-points, ornaments, etc., in Ohio, and • 

 throughout those sections of our country which at one time were 

 inhabited by the mound-builders, a race of people wjiose remains 

 indicate a state of advancement in the arts and manufactures 

 superior to tiie savage nations who succeeded them. It is a very 

 interesting fact, that recent discoveries have shown upon various 

 forms of copper implements, deposited in their burial places by the 

 mound-builders — markings similar to those left b}- moulds in the 

 process of casting. It may, therefore, be supposed that these 

 people were acquainted with the art of smelting, besides that of 

 hammering copper. Professor Foster in his '■ Prehistoric Races 

 of the United States," mentions the fact, that in a collection made 

 bj^ Mr. Perkins, he saw copper implements of mound origin, that 

 bear well-defined traces of the mould. . . . '• It is impossible," 

 he adds, " to infer after a careful examination of these specimens, 

 that the ridges have been left in the process of haramerins: or 

 oxidation." • . . " The more I examine their arts and manu- 

 factures the stronger becomes u\y conviction that thej- were 

 something more than a race of barbarian people." From these 

 observations of Professor Foster, a skilful and cautious observer, 

 it would appear that two processes were used, not only of ham- 

 mering, but that of smelting, which latter process was in all 

 probabilit}' suggested b^' their supposed method of extracting the 

 masses of copper from their pits — remains of which may still be 

 seen in the Lake Superior coj^per regions before mentioned. Some 

 of these pits have been explored by Colonel Whittlesey, an account 

 of which was published in the " Smitlisonian Contributions to 

 Knowledge for 1863." They were found to contain, in all cases, 

 among the debris, fragments of charcoal and ashes, with traces of 

 fires against the sides thereof, indicating the use of heat in the 

 process of extracting their ores, thereby aiding the wedges and 

 copper chisels which were driven in b}" means of stoue mauls until 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



the desired pieces were detached. It may, therefore, be probable 

 from the fact, that the melting point of copper is about 1000° C to 

 1398°, there was sufficient heat generated by fires, used in above- 

 mentioned method, to smelt the small points of copper attached 

 to the larger masses, and that these peoi)le possessing -the intelli- 

 gence and quick perception of the Indian races, were led to notice 

 and utilize it in smelting copper and casting their work. The 

 artistic forms and finish of their copper implements, whether cast 

 or hammered, cannot fail to impress the observer that a race of 

 men existed in the early history of our continent, whose origin is 

 enveloped in mystery, and whose skill rivals man of historic times, 

 assisted b^' all the inventions of this mighty age of Iron. 



The Trituhercular Type of tiuj)erior Molar Tooth. — Prof. Cope 

 made some observations on the trituberculate t^ pe of superior 

 molar tooth among the mammalia. He remarked that it is now 

 apparent that the type of superior molar tooth which i)redominated 

 during the Puerco epoch was triangular; that is, with two external, 

 and one internal tubercles. Thus of forty-one species of Mammalia 

 6f which the superior molars are known, all but four have three 

 tubercles of the crown, though of these thirty-seven triangular 

 ones, those of three species of Feriptyehiis have a small supple- 

 mentary lobe on each side of the median principal inner tubercle. 



This fact is important as indicating the mode of development 

 of the various types of superior molar teeth, on which we have 

 not heretofore had clear light. In the first place, this type of 

 molar exists to-day onlj' in the insectivorous and carnivorous 

 Marsupialia ; in the Insectivora, and the tubercular molars of such 

 Carnivora as possess them (excepting the plantigrades). In the 

 Ungulates the only later forms of it in the Eocene are to be 

 found in the molars of the Goryphodontidsp of the Wasatch, and 

 Dinocerata of the Bridger Eocenes. In later epochs it is chiefly 

 seen onh' in the last superior molar. 



It is also evident that the cpiadritubercular molar is derived 

 from the trituhercular b^- the addition of a lobe of the inner part 

 of a cingulum of the posterior base of the crown. Transitional 

 states are seen in some of the Periptychidae (Anisonchus) and in 

 the sectorials of the Procyonid^. 



The Spinal Chord of Batrachia and Reptilia. — Dr. Harrison 

 Allen called attention to the characters furnished by the spinal 

 chord in the systematic study of batrachians and reptiles. In 

 making a resume of the researches of Stieda Liideritz, S. H. Gage 

 and J. J. Mason he had formulated the following structural features 

 which may be added to those characters already employed by 

 systematists. In batrachians, as illustrated in Rana, Meno- 

 poma and Siren the connective is seen about the central canal 

 to be of unusual development, and in Siren to embrace the entire 

 chord in a conspicuous cortical laj^er. In addition to these 

 features, connective-tissue corpuscles are sparsely distributed 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PmLADELPHIA. 5T 



through the chord when studied in transverse sections. The poste- 

 rior columns are projected above the plane of the lateral columns 

 and exhibit distinct differences in the arrangement of nerve-fibres. 

 In lacertilians and crocodilians the commissures are perforated 

 longitudinall}' by a pair of columns of nerve-fibres. In ophidians 

 the posterior nerve-roots are seen to be rudimentary or absent and 

 when present to tend to arise from the cer\:ix cornu of the poste- 

 rior horn of gray matter. In chelonians the motor-cells are few 

 in number; the anterior median fissure is of great width, the com- 

 missure of relativel}' great size, and the reticular fibres h'ing to the 

 lateral aspect of the gray columns are unusualU' well developed. 



February 27. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirtj^-seven persons present. 

 Walter Rogers Furness was elected a member. 



On Dinodijjsax and Causus. — Prof. Cope drew attention to a 

 recent important discovery made by Prof. Peters, of Berlin, of 

 the new genus of venomous snakes, Dinodipms. He stated that 

 he regarded the genus as pertaining to the GausidaSj a famil}' he 

 had proposed as a subfamily in his fir.st paper read before the 

 Academ}- in 1859. As the only genus heretofore known, Causus, 

 is African, the statement of Peters that Dmodipsas is South 

 American, adds an important fact to geographical zoology. Prof. 

 Cojie then corrected a statement made by Peters in his Herpetology 

 of the Reise nach Mozambique (1882), that he (Pi-of. Cope) had 

 referred Causus to the Yipers. In 1859 he had divided the 

 venomous snakes with vertical and hinged maxillary l)one. into 

 the subdivisions of the rattlesnakes, the vipers, the Atractos- 

 pidines and the Causines. He then designated the entire group 

 Viperidffi after Bonaparte, and had not until later used Dumeril 

 and Bibron's term Solenoglypha for that division. But this did 

 not justify Peters in stating that he had referred the genus Cansiis 

 to the Yipers, and that he, Peters, was the author of the separate 

 family to receive that genus and Dinodipsas, the " Yipernattern.'' 



He also corrected some other references to himself by Prof. 

 Peters in the Reise nach Mozambique. In one of these, Peters 

 had supposed him to refer to a combination of the genera Brevi- 

 ceps and Chelydobatrachus b}' Peters, when he had really separated 

 them. Prof. Cope said that his language referred to their union 

 in the same family by Peters, which he did not approve. 



Prof. Peters nlso states that the peculiarities of the tongue in 

 the genus IIemi><us, described by Steiudachner and Pi-of. Cope, 

 are due to mutilation. Prof. Cope could not coincide with tliis 

 view, and regards the structures described as normal. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 

 .5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



A NEW UNIO FROM FLOEIDA. 

 BY BERLIN H. WRIGHT. 



TJni'i Cunninghatni. Plate I, figs. 1-4. 



Shell ovate, ventricose and very inequilateral, smooth, inter- 

 rupted by numerous irregular, undulating lines of growth, causing 

 a scaly appearance near the margins, and very highly polished 

 above; substance of shell very thick, constricted posteriorly, 

 angular behind and truncated before ; ligament margin moderately 

 arcuate and angular at the terminus (tip) ; posterior margin 

 wedge-shaped and slightly acuminate ; ligamental area elongately 

 cordiform and wide, nearly forming a plane in old individuals ; 

 umbonal slope suhangular from beak to margin ; anterior margin 

 angular above and somewhat abruptly rounded beneath ; basal 

 margin emarginate posteriori}' in the males and uniformly' curved 

 in the females ; epidermis usually dark chestnut or reddish brown, 

 interspersed with marginal bands of light horn-color; occasionally 

 the entire shell is of uniform light horn-color, wrinkled and entirely 

 destitute of raj-s ; greatest diameter near the middle of the umbos ; 

 beaks eroded and obtuse ; umbo broad and flattened ; nacre usually 

 a delicate pink : occasionally white ; cardinal and lateral teeth both 

 single in the right and double in tlie left A'alve, lateral teeth short, 

 slightly and uniformly curved and separated from the cardinal 

 teeth by a space equal to one-half of their own length ; cavity of 

 the shell and beak both shallow ; dorsal cicatrices five and situated 

 above the centre of the cavity of the beak ; distinct anterior and 

 confluent posterior cicatrices; ventral cicatrix usually present and 

 placed anterior to the centre of the cavity of the shell. 



Habitat. — Lakes of Sumter County, Florida. 



This beautiful shell belongs near U. Buckleyi Lea, from which 

 it differs in being strictlv rayless in all stages of its growth, greater 

 diameter, more angular anteriorly above and more abruptly rounded 

 beneath, broader and flatter umbos and more abrupt posterior slope. 

 The cardinal teeth are much heavier and not as oblique as in 

 U. Buckleyi. A large suite of the shells was sent to me bj^ Mr. 

 T. L. Cunningham, of Yalaha, Sumter Count}', Florida, in whose 

 honor we name it. 



Plate I, fig. 1, (jnio C'unniiighami, old male ; 2, fuU-fjiuwii IVmale ; 

 3, old male ; 4, young male. 




Proc A.N.S.Phila 1883 



Plate 1 



T Suiclaip4:So3i.liai.Pliua. 



UN 10 CUNNINGHAMl Wnght 





1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



NOTES ON THE BIRDS OF WESTMORELAND COUNTY, PENNA. 

 BY CHAS. H. TOWNSEND. 



Local lists have added so much to our knowledge of the range 

 and distribution of birds, that the following notes are submitted 

 as a contribution to the general fund of information. The species 

 enumerated represent perhaps not more than two-thirds of the 

 actual bird fauna of Westmoreland County. Many more might 

 probably be added, but I wish to restrict this list to those birds 

 identified with certainty, and have given only such as have come 

 under my personal notice, not having enjoyed the advantage of 

 comparing notes with a fellow-naturalist. 



No special effort was made to find new birds, and this catalogue, 

 mereh' the result of observations jotted dowm from time to time 

 in my note-book, is xevy incomplete. It is hoped that its present 

 publication will call forth additional information, so that a supple- 

 mental paper ma}' appear in the future. 



Not having been a constant resident of the county since com- 

 mencing to note the birds, I could not always collect at the most 

 fruitful seasons, consequently a large number of migratory birds 

 have escaped notice. The district being wooded and hilly, there 

 are no very extensive marshes to harbor rail, snipe and other 

 swami>loving birds. I feel confident that the number of water- 

 birds in general will hereafter be largelj^ increased. 



M\' rambles w^re mainh' in the central portions of the county, 

 along the Loyalhanna Creek, and in the vicinit}- of Latrobe, on 

 the line of the Penna. R. R. The Chestnut Ridge, a range of the 

 Alleghenies, extending through the S. E. part of Westmoreland, 

 is covered with heavj- forests, and furrowed by deep wild ravines. 

 Manj^ rare wood-birds doubtless lurk in these secluded spots, and 

 remain to be discovered bj' anj^ one diligent enough to make the 

 search. 



I may add that I have seldom taken a tramp through the forests 

 of Chestnut Ridge without seeing or shooting one or more birds 

 new to the region. 



The species are arranged according to the second edition of 

 Dr. Coues' Check List. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1888, 



TURDID-ffi!. 



1. Turdas migratorius. Robiu. 



A common and familiar bird. Stragglers are occasionally seen 

 in winter. Breeds abundantly. 



2. Tardus mustelinus. Wood Thrush. 



Common in dense woods. An excellent songster, but not equal 

 to the Brown Thrush. 

 ;!. Turdus fascescens. Wilson's Thrush. 



Not very common. 



4. Turdus unalascae nanus. Hermit Thrush. 

 An inhabitant of retired woods. 



5. Mimus carolinensis. Cat-bird. 



An al)undant summer resident ; breeds. 



6. Harporhynchus rufus. Brown Thrush. 

 Common ; nests in thickets and brush-heaps. 



SAXICOLID^. 



7. Sialia sialis. Blue-bird. 



Common summer resident; nests freely in artificial bird-boxes 



near houses. 



SYLVIID.^. 



8. Kegulus calendula. Ruby-crowned Kinglet. 



This and the next species are frequent in spring and fall. 



9. Begulus satrapa. Golden-crested Kinglet. 



10. Polioptila coerulea. Blue-gray Gnntcatcher. 



Have taken but one si3ecimen. 



PABIDJE. 



11. Lophophanes bicolor. Tuf ud Titmouse. 



Common; noticed oftener in winter than in suninicr. 



12. Parus atricapillus. Black-capped Chickadee. 



Associates with the last. 



SITTIDJE. 

 l.i. Sitta carolinensis. AVhite-belli^d Nut-hatch. 



Resident, quite common. The Nut-hatches and smaller Wood- 

 peckers are indifferently known as "sap-suckers" in this region. 



14. Sitta canadensis. Red-bellied Nut-hatch. 

 Seen occasionall}' in spring. 



CERTHIDJE. 



15. Certhia familiaris. Brown Creeper. 

 A shy inhabitant of the woods. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 61 



TROGLODYTID^. 



16. Troglodytes domesticus. House Wren. 



Apparently not common. A pair nested on a beam in our 

 cellar, in 1880, and remained with their brood until the latter part 

 of July. 



17. Anorthura troglodytes hiemalis. Winter Wren. 



Resident ; frequently seen in winter in ravines and thickets. 



18. Telmatodytes palustris. Long-billed Marsh Wren. 



Seldom seen ; inhabits reedy swamps. 



SYLVICOLID-ffi. 



19. Hniotilta varia. Black-and-white Creeper. 

 Occasionally seen in summer. 



20. Dendrceoa aestiva. Summer Warbler. 



Common in spring and summer. 



21. Dendroeca virens. Black-throated Green AVarbler. 

 Migratory. 



22. Dendroeca coerulescens. Black-throated Blue Warbler. 

 Migrator3^ 



23. Dendroeca coronata. Yellow-rumped Warbler. 

 Migratory; common. 



24. Dendroeca blackburnae. Blackburn's Warbler. 

 Common during spring migrations. 



25. Dendrceca striata. Black-poll Warbler. 

 Migratory. 



26. Dendroeca castanea. Bay-breasted Warbler. 



Saw several in the spring of 1881. 



27. Slums auricapillus. Golden-crowned Thrush. 



Rather common in damp woods ; remarkable for its oven-shaped 

 nest on the ground. 



28. Slums motaclUa. Large-billed Water Thrush. 



Have seen it twice in a rocky ravine in Chestnut Ridge. 



29. Geothlypls trichas. Maryland Yellow-throat. 



Summer resident ; common in briar patches and dense thickets. 



30. Mylodloctes canadensis. Canadian Flycatching Warbler. 

 Migratory ; taken but once. 



31. Setophaga ruticilla. Redstart. 

 Not common. 



TANAGRIDiE. 



32. Fyranga rubra. Scarlet Tanager. 



Summer resident ; common. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



HIRUNDINIDJE. 



y>'-'>. Hirundo erythrogastra horreorum. Barn Swallow. 



Common. 

 S4. Petroehelidon lunifrons. Cliif or Eave Swallow. 



Breeds abundantl3^ 

 'io. Stele idopteryz serripecnis. Rough-winged Swallow. 



Have a single specimen, which I shot near Youngstown. 

 ?>6. Frogne subis. Purple Martin. 



Very common ; breeds freely in bird-houses in the villages. 



AMPELli)^. 



37. Ampelis cedrorum. Ce 'ar Waxwing; Cherry-bird. 



Quite common, especially when cherry-trees are in fruit. 



VIREONID^. 



.'i8. Vireo olivaceus. Red-eyed Grcenlet. 



Common in orchards and groves. 



.39. Vireo solitar us. Blue-he ided Grecnlet. 



Apparently migratory. 



LANIIDiE. 



40. Lanius borealis. (it. Northern Shrike: Butcher-bird. 



Verj' vare ; I have seen it near Latrobe. 

 miNGILIilD^. 



41. Passer domesticus. House Sparrow ; European Sparrow. 



This irrepressible foreigner has established himself in our towns 

 and villages, to the total exclusion of native songsters. 



42. Carpodacus purpureas. Purple Finch. 



Not common ; have seen but few individuals, and those in 

 spring. Probably only migratory here. 



4:5. Astragalinus tristis. Am. Goldfinch ; Th'stle-bird. 



Summer resident ; abundant ; breeds. 



44. Plectrophanes nivalis. Snow Bunting. 



One of m}^ friends described to me a flock of birds which he 

 saw flying about the fields during very severe weather in Jan., 

 1881, which, from his description, must have been Snow Buntings 



45. Pooecetes gramiaeu'. Grass Finch. 

 . Common ; breeds. 



46. Melospiza palustris. Swamp Sparmw. 



Common. 



47. Melospiza fasciata. Song Sparrow. 

 Common : breeds. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 63 



48. Junco hiemalis Snow-bird. 

 Common in winter. 



49. Spizella monticola. Tree Sparrow. 



Common in winter. 



.")0. Spizella domestica. Chipping Sparrow ; Chippy. 



Slimmer resident ; very common, nesting in garden bushes. 



51. Spizella agrestis Field Sparrow. 



Common in summer. 



52. Zonotrichia albicollis. White-throated Sparrow. 



Not common. 



5.3. Z3iiotrichia leucophrys. White-crowned Sparrow. 



Not common. 



54. Passerella iliaca. Fox Sparrow. 



Rather rai'e ; occasionally seen late in autumn. 



55. Zamelodia ludoviciana. Rose-breasted Grosbeak. 



Uncommon ; have taken occasional specimens in midsummer in 

 the forests of Chestnut Ridge. 



56. Passerina cyanea. Indigo-bird. 

 Common summer resident. 



57. Cardinalis virginiana. Cardinal Grosbeak ; Red-bird. 



Frequent both in summer and winter; have seen numbers of 

 them in Chestnut Ridge, where thej- probably breed, as I have seen 

 quite young birds there. One which I crippled by a shot in the 

 wing, lived in a cage for more than a 3'ear and became an accom- 

 plished whistler. 



58. Pipilo erythrophthalmus. Chewink: Ground Robin. 



Common everj'where, in bushes and hedges. 



ICTERID^. 



59. Dolichonyx oryzivorus. Bobolink. 



Summer resident ; gregarious in the fall migrations. 



60. Molothrus ater. Cow-bird. 



Very common in summer ; I have seen its eggs in nests of the 

 Indigo-bird and Chipping Sparrow. 



61. Agelseus phoeniceus. Red-winged Blackbird. 



Breeds plentifully. 



62. Starnella magna. Meadow Lark. 



Abundant ; breeds regularly, gregarious in the fall. Have seen 

 stragglers in midwinter. 



6.S. Icterus spurius. Orchard Oriole. 



Not common. 




4 



64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



64. Icterus galbula. Baltimore Oriole; Hang-nest. 



A familiar bird in summer. A pair nested regularly for several 

 seasons in the same tree near our door. 



65. Scolecophagusferrugineus. Rusty Grackle. 



Common. 



66. Quiscalus purpnreus. Crow Blackbird. 



Common everywhere. 



CORVIDiE. 



67. CorvuB corax. Kaveo. 



Old residents report a "crow" of very large size, as once com- 

 mon. It was doubtless the Raven. 



68. Corvus frugivorus. Common €row. 



Breeds regularly. 



69. Cyanociita cristata. Blue Jay. 



Resident throughout the year; common. 



TYRANNID^. 



70. Tyrannus carolinfnsis. King-bird: "Bee-bird." 



Summer resident ; common ; much persecuted by bee-keepers, 

 who imagine it is destructive to bees. 



71. Myiarchus orinitus. Gt. Crested Flycatcher. 



Not as common as the last. 



72. Sayioinis fusca. Pewee. 



Very common ; has nested under the eaves of our porch fre- 

 quently. 

 7;!. Contopus virens. Wood Pewee. 



Quite common in woodlands. 



CAPRIMULGID^. 



74. Antrostomns vociferus. Whip-poor-will. 



Common in summer ; a bird often heard after nightfall, but 

 seldom seen. 



75. Choidediles popetue. Night-hawk. 



Yery common in summer ; confounded with the last by many 

 persons; but, unlike it, the Night-hawk soars high in the air ; both 

 species nest on the ground. 



CYPSELID^. 



76. Chaetura pelasgica. Chimney Swift. 



Common ; have seen numbers of them circling about tall chim- 

 neys, where they had nests. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF* PHILADELPHIA. 65 



TROCHILID^. 



77. Trochilus colubris. Ruby-throated HummiDg-bird. 



Quite common ; I once found a nest containing eggs, near Beatty 

 Station, P. R. R. 



ALCEDINIDiE. 



78. Ceryle alcyon. Belted Kingfisher. 



Common ; breeds regularly ; have seen stragglers as late as 

 Dec. 20, when all streams were frozen. 



CUCULID^. 



79. Coccygus erythrophthalmns. Black-billed Cuckoo. 

 Common ; breeds. 



80. Coccygus americanus. Yellow-billed Cuckoo. 



More common than the last ; usually called Rain- bird by 



schoolboys. 



PICID^. 



81. Hylotomus pileatus. Pileated Woodpecker. 



Occasionally seen in heav3'-timbered localities. 



82. Picus villosus. Hairy Woodpecker. 



Resident ; common. 



83. Picus pubescens. Downy Woodpecker. 



Resident ; quite common. 



84. Spnyropicus varius. Yellow-bellied AA'oodpeoker. 



Apparentlj' not common. 



85. Centurus carolinus. Red-bellied Woodpecker. 



Rather common. 



86. Melanerpes erythrocephalus. Red headel Woodpecker. 

 Abundant. 



87. Colaptes auratus. Flicker: Golden-winged Woodpecker. 



Yery common summer resident. 



STRIGIDJB. 



88. Bubo virginianus. Gt. Horned Owl. 

 A common resident. 



89. Scops asio. Screech Owl. 



Resident, very common. 



90. Strix nebulosa. Barred Owl. 

 Resident, common. 



91. Nyctea scandiaca. Snowy Owl. 

 Very rare. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



FALCONID^. 



92. Accipiter fuscus. Sharp-shinned Hawk : Pigeon Hawk. 



Not as common as the tiext species. 

 9.3. Accipiter csoperi. Cooper's Hawk. 

 Common ; have taken its nest. 



94. Falco sparverius. Sparrow Hawk. 



Veiy common ; breeds. 



95. Buteo borealis. Red-tailed Buzzard : Chicken Hawk. 



Common ; breeds. 



9fi. Buteo lineatus. Red-.shouldered Buzzard. 



Rather common. 



97. Archibuteo lagopus 8ancti-j.ohaiims. Am. Rougb-legged Buzzard ; Black Hawk. 



Very rare. A specimen was shot near Latrobe, in the spring of 

 1879, by Mr. Edgar Chambers. If I remember rightly, the bird 

 was perfectly black. 



98. Pandinnhaliaetus. Fish Hawk; 0.=i>rey. 



Rare ; I saw a specimen which was shot in the Loyalhanna 

 Creek, near Latrobe, in 1879. Have seen specimens shot on the 

 Allegheu}' River, at the N. W. boundary of Westmoreland Co. 



99. Haliaetus leacocephalns. Bald Eagle. 



Occasional specimens have been taken. Fragments of one are 

 in my possession. 



CATHARTIDJE. • 



100. Cathar'es aura. Turkey Buzzard. 



Ver}' rare ; formerly common, according to the statements of 

 old residents. Have seen several in an adjoining countj'. 



COLUMBID^. 



101. Ectopistes migratorius. Wild Pigeon. 



Migratoiy ; appears in immense flocks in some seasons. 



102. Zenaidura carolinensis. Carolina Dove; "Turtle Dove." 



Breeds regularly ; abundant. 



MELEAGRID^. 



lO.i. Meleagris gallipavo americana. Wild Turkey. 



Resident ; no longer common ; a few are killed in the mountains 

 every year. 



TETRAONID^. 



104. Bonasa umbella. Ruffled Grouse; " Phea^^ant." 



A well-known game-bird ; resident, common. 



105. Ortyx virginianus. Quail: "Bob-white." 



Resident, common ; neither this nor the last species as abundant 

 as in former years. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



CHARADRIID^. 



106. JEgialites vociferus. Killdeer Plover. 



Summer resident ; abundant. 



SCOLOPACID^. 



107. Philohela minor. Woodcock. 



Common ; have seen it as early as Mai^eh 13. 



108. Gallinago wilsoni. Snipe. 

 Summer resident. 



109. Tringoide* macularius. Spotted Sandpiper. 

 Common in summer ; breeds. 



ARDEID^. 



110. Ardea herodias. Gt. Blue Heron. 



Migratory, occasional ; have two specimens in ray collection, 

 shot on the Loyalhanna Creek. 



111. Hsrodlas egretta. lit. White Egret. 

 Migratory ; irregular. 



112. Butorides virescens. (Jreen Heron. 

 Quite common in summer ; breeds. 



lly. Botaurus mugitans. Bittern. 



Not common ; have one specimen shot by Mr. J. C. Head, of 



Latrobe. 



RALLID^. 



114. Eallus virginianus. Virginia Rail. 

 Summer visitant. 



115. Porzana Carolina. Carolina Rail: Sora. 



Mr. Gr. N. Beckwith, of Latrobe, reports it common. Mr. G. 

 H. Adams, agent of the P. R. R., gave me the only specimen I 

 have seen in Westmoreland. It was found in a freight-car at 

 Beatty Station. 



116. Fulica americana. Coot; "Mud Hen." 

 Rather common. 



ANATID^. 



117. Cygnns columbianas. Am. Swan. 

 Occasionally shot on the Loyalhanna Creek. 



118. Bernicla canadensis. Wild Goose. 

 Migratory ; rather common. 



119. Anas boscas Mallard Duck. 



Mr. G. N. Beckwith assures me of the occurrence of this and 

 the next two species. 



120. Anas obscura. Black Duck : Duskv Duck. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



121. Daflla acuta. Pintail. 



122. Querqnedula carolinensis. Green-winged Teal. 

 Migratory. 



123. ftuerquedula discors. Blue-winged Teal. 

 More frequent than the last. 



124. Aix sponsa. Wood or Summer Duck. 



Summer resident ; breeds. 



125. Faligula marila. Scaup Duck : Black-head. 



Migratory ; usually abundant. 



126. Fuligula ferina americana. Red-head: Pochard, 

 Probably migratory. 



127. Clangala albeola. Buflae-head Duck; Butter.ball. 



Migratory ; common. 



128. Harelda glacialis. Long-tailed Duck. 



On February 5, 1881, Mr. Harry Chambers shot a male of this 

 species, on the creek at Latrobe. It is the only instance of the 

 occurrence of this maritime duck so far inland, so far as I am 

 aware. 



129. Erismatura rubida. Ruddy Duck. 

 Migrator}' ; abundant in spring. 



l.'jO. Mergus merganser. Goosander; Fish Duck. 



Regularly migrator3\ 



131. Mergus serrator. Red-breasted Merganser. 

 Migrator}', occasional, 



132. Mergus cucuUataa. Hooded Merganser. 

 Irregularly migrator}'. 



133. Larus delawarensis. Ring-billed Gull. 



I have a specimen, shot on the Loyalhanna Creek, May T, 1881. 

 Other species of gulls doubtless visit our streams during migration. 



COLYMBID^. 



134. Colymbns torquatus. Loon; Gt. Northern Diver. 



Migratory ; a few are shot every season by the gunners. 

 PODICIPID^. 



135. Podicipes cornutus. Horned Grebe, * 



Rare ; Mr, Harry Chambers gave me a specimen which he shot 

 on the Loyalhanna Creek. This is the only instance of its occur- 

 rence that I can cite. 



136. Podilymbas podicipes. Pied-billed Grebe; "Dipper," 

 Resident ; well known to gunners everywhere. 




1883] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 69 



March 6. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tbyon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



Permiayi Fishes and ReiMles Prof. Cope exhibited some 



specimens of fishes and reptiles from tlie Permian formation of 

 Texas. One of these was a new species of Crossopterygian fish 

 which he named E ctosteorhacliis ciceronius, which exhibited some 

 important characters of the posterior cranial region. He stated 

 that the base of the skull consists of ossified parachordals, and 

 these embrace the chordadorsalis posteriori^', and are continued 

 for a short distance posteriorly as a tube. Anteriorly the chordal 

 groove is open. Trabecular not ossified. He considered the 

 cranial structure to be an excellent illustration of a permanent 

 embrj'onic type. 



The most interesting reptile was a new genus which occu])ies a 

 place between the Felycosauria with molar teeth, and those with 

 raptorial teeth, but with more resemblance to the former, or Dia- 

 dectidse. The teeth are placed transversely in the jaws, but the 

 crowns terminate in an incurved apex, without ledge. He named 

 the genus Chilonyx, and referred it provisionally to the Bolo- 

 sauridae. The tj'pical species is the Bolot^aurvs rapidens (Cope, 

 1878), an animal with a skull as large as that of a hog, and with 

 robust limbs. The surface of the skull is divided by grooves 

 into numerous swollen areas, and some of these are, on the lateral 

 occipital region, developed into tuberosities like the rudimental 

 horns of the Phrynosoina douglassi. 



Phenomena of Glaciation. — Professor Heilprin, referring to 

 his former communication on the phenomena of glaciation, stated 

 that if the principles laid down by him as to tlie limitation (in 

 height) of a polar ice-cap be correct, then the same principles must 

 likewise hold good for all portions of the earth's surface. In other 

 woi'ds, given an elevation of sufficient magnitude, then the upper 

 portion of the same, by virtue of its rising above the cloud-line, 

 must be either bare of snow^ or covered only with a comparatively 

 feeble thickness of the same. This view, which the speaker 

 believed was first enunciated by Humboldt, receives confirmation 

 from observations made on the Alps and on other high mountain 

 peaks. Thus, according to Tschudi, only a comparative!}' ver}^ 

 feeble thickness of snow falls on the Alpine summits above an 

 altitude of about 10,800 feet, the heavy precipitation being princi- 

 palh' confined to a zone comprised between 7000 and 11000 feet. 

 The brothers Schlagintweit determined the cumulus line in the 




"70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1888. 



same region to lie at a general elevation of 8-9800 feet, above 

 which storms were of only exceptional occurrence, and the atmos- 

 phere usually clear and serene. These observations as to feeble 

 l^recipitation were further confirmed by Dollfuss, who found that 

 on the Theodule Pass (10,800 feet) the total precipitation for the 

 six winter months amounted to onl}^ 7^ feet of snow. On the St. 

 Gothard, on the other hand, at an elevation almost exactly 4000 

 feet lower, nearly the same quantity fell in a single da3\ Agnin, 

 on the Grimsel (6150 feet) Agassiz found the winter snow-fall to 

 amount to 57^ feet. While, therefore, the highest Alpine summits 

 generall}' appear to be buried in an almost unfathomable thickness 

 of snow, there can be but little doubt that in actual fact this thick- 

 ness is but very moderate. This is proved by the circumstance 

 that under exceptional conditions the snow covering may almost 

 completely disappear as a result of a single season's melting. Thus 

 in Septemi)er, 1842, the Ewigschneehorn was completel}^ dismantled 

 of its cap, and in r860-1862 a whole series of the usuall}' snow- 

 clad peaks showed only patches of snow. During the same period 

 the Stralech (11,000) feet could be crossed without the traveler 

 encountering a single patch of either hard or soft snow (Reclus). 

 With these facts before us, we have good grounds for doubting 

 whether any extraordinary accumulation of snow, unless with a 

 much warmer climate, could take place in the region of the tar 

 north (with a descending cloud line) on elevations of ver}' great 

 magnitude. Granting, however, the possibility of a huge polar 

 glacier tending southward, some singular facts are brought out by 

 a calculation of its rate of progression. Allowing an average 

 rate of one foot per day. which is about that of the average Alpine 

 ghicier, it would necessitate for a glacier starting from about the 

 sixty-fifth parallel of latitude a period of no less than 25,000 years 

 for it to have reached the line of its terminal extension, the terminal 

 moraine. But with such an infinitesimal slope as such a glacier 

 must necessarily have had, it maj' be questioned whether its rate 

 of progression would have been more than one-fifth or even one- 

 tenth of that which has been here given it. At the average I'ate 

 of two and one-half inches daily, 125,000 j^ears would have been 

 required for its southerly progression, a period that would nearl}^ 

 tide over the interval between the periods of greatest eccentricity 

 indicated by astronomers. 



Professor Lewis remarked that arguments drawn from meteoro- 

 logical conditions as they now exist will not in all cases apph- in 

 considering the glacial epoch. The distribution of land and water 

 was so different in glacial times that meteorological conditions 

 must also have been different. He instanced fac1:s which he had 

 observed in the valley of the Delaware and elsewheie, indicating 

 a depression south of the glaciated area, which produced a greater 

 water surface in the glacial epoch, and therefore different meteoro- 

 loo^ical conditions. He remarked also that it was unsafe to found 

 aro^uments upon any close analogy between the conditions of local 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



glaciers or isolated peaks and the great ice sheet of tlie glacial 

 epoch. While analogies might be drawn from the glacier of 

 interior Greenland or from the Antarctic ice-cap, he thought that 

 errors often arose from a too close comparison with more local 

 centres of glaciation. 



Referring to the subject of glacial motion. Professor Lewis said 

 that while there were not yet sufficient facts at hand to determine 

 its rate, its general direction and continuity were clearly shown 

 in the striae on elevated summits. He spoke of the importance of 

 distinguishing these high-level stria? from those occurring in vallej's, 

 remarking that erroneous conclusions had frequently been drawn 

 from an examination of maps of striie, where the relative elevation 

 of the individual stria? was not noted. Whde the striae upon 

 mountain summits indicate the general direction of the top of the 

 ice, and are uniform over large areas, those in valleys show merely 

 the local moA'ement of the lower strata, and, conforming more or 

 less to the direction of the valley in which they occur, vary in 

 each locality and are therefore of minor importance. As an instance 

 he described some striae near White Haven, Luzerne Co., Pa. 

 Those in the valley of the Lehigh near the tovvn bore S. 35° E. or 

 approximately down the valley, while on the other hand, upon the 

 summit of Penobscot Knob, 1100 feet higher than the valley 

 (2250 feet above the sea), the strite bore S. 10^ W., this being the 

 general direction of ice-flow across northeastern Penns3-lvania. 

 In all cases the striae are at right-angles to the terminal moraine, 

 and they therefore point S. E. in western Pennsylvania. He 

 gave other facts which he had observed in Penns^'lvania and else- 

 where, all pointing to the continuit}- of action and consequent great 

 size of the glacier. He spoke of the probable analogy between 

 the Antarctic ice-cap, some 2500 miles in diameter, and the Polar 

 ice-cap of glacial times, and mentioned Croll's estimate that the 

 former is twelve miles thick at its centre. In speaking of a Polar 

 ice-cap, he did not mean to imply, however, that the ice was 

 necessaril}^ thickest on the Pole. As in Europe the mountains of 

 Scandinavia and Scotland were probable centres of glaciation, the 

 glaciers from which joined to form the great mer-de-glace, so in 

 America either Greenland, Labrador, the Hudson Bay region, or 

 elsewhere, may have been centres from which glaciers grew finally 

 to coalesce into one mass of ice, the top strata of which flowed 

 southward to the great terminal moraine. 



March 13. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine members present. 

 The death of Henry Seybert, a member, was announced. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



A paper entitled " On the mutual relations of the Bunotherian 

 Mammalia," by Edw. D. Cope, was presented for publication. 



Crystallized Serpentine from Delaxoa7'e. — Professor H. Carvill 

 Lewis remarked that a sliort time ago, his venerable friend, Dr. 

 Isaac Lea, had handed him for examination /i specimen of Deweylite 

 from Way's feldspar quarry, near Wilmington, Delaware, upon 

 which were some crystals of an unknown micaceous substance. 



The white, waxy deweylite, weathering to a pale yellow color on 

 the surface, contains numerous angular fragments of transparent 

 quartz, which vary in size from microscopic dimensions to frag- 

 ments two inches long b}' one-half inch wide. In all cases these 

 fragments are perfectly sharp and are generally rhomboidal in 

 shape. These rhombic cleavage fragments are just such as would 

 be produced by throwing a heated crystal of quartz into cold 

 water. Under the microscope, the quartz is shown to contain 

 hair-like microlites and minute oval cavities, the major axes of 

 which are usually placed in one direction. ^ 



The deweylite also contains irregular masses of feldspar falbite), 

 which are more or less altered into deweylite. Unlike the frag- 

 ments of quartz, these feldspar nodules are almost invariably 

 rounded in outline, as though partially dissolved away. The 

 feldspar has lost both its lustre and its hardness. It has a waxy 

 appearance, and its hardness is reduced to 4*5. In some speci- 

 mens one end is more altered than the other, and it is evident that 

 the deweylite is the result of the alteration of albite. 



The third mineral in the deweylite is in the form of i)lates or 

 crystals of a micaceous substance of a pale smoky pearl color with 

 a faint greenish tinge. The plates may be several inches in diam- 

 eter, and are traversed by numerous joints or cracks filled with 

 deweylite, which are generally inclined to one another at angles 

 of 60^ and 120°. The crystals appear to be sections of an ortho- 

 rhombic cr3-stal, bounded by six prismatic planes, whose angle of 

 intersection is 120°. In the polariscope, the mineral is seen to be 

 doubly refracting, and is biaxial witli a small optic-axial divergence 

 (probably between 10° and 20°). the hyperboles being indistinct. 



It has a strong pearly lustre, an eminent basal cleavage, almost 

 micaceous, and is brittle. It has a hardness of 2".5, and specific 

 gravity of 2*41 . It is translucent, and b}- transmitted light is 

 grayish or greenish yellow. 



In the closed tube it gives off water and decrepitates slightly, 

 becoming blackish gray or dark steel-colored. In the blow-pipe 

 flame it blackens, then turns white, exfoliates slightl>' and fuses 

 with boiling at 4*5 to a white bead. In the salt of phosphorus 

 bead it dissolves completely to a clear glass which becomes milk- 

 white in a cold saturated bead. With cobaltic nitrate on charcoal 



' v. Further notes on inclusions in gems Isaac Leii, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. 

 Phila., May, 1876. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. T3 



it turns pink. It is decomposed by hydrochloric or sulphuric 



acid without gelatinization. 



At the request of Professor Lewis, Mr. Reuben Haines had 



made an analysis of tlie mineral with the following results : — 



*SiO 43-03 



MgO 39-71 



FeO 0-78 



A1,0, 2-23 



H,0 13-20 



99-55 



Mr. Haines determined the specific gravity in a specific gravity 

 bottle containing a thermometer, the weighing being done at 60^ F. 



From the composition as well as from its physical characters 

 the mineral api)ears to be a true serpentine. Its optical characters 

 show that it is crystallized, and not a mere pseudoraorph. If so, 

 the crystallization of serpentine is micaceous, as already surmised 

 by Professor Dana.^ 



As the deweylite is tlie result of the alteration of feldspar, so 

 the serpentine has been altered from mica (muscovite). The rela- 

 tive amount of muscovite in the adjoining graphic granite is about 

 the same as that of the micaceous serpentine in the deweylite. 

 Moreover in certain specimens of feldspathic deweylite, where the 

 feldspar is not completel}' altered, there occur crystals of hydro- 

 muscovite (margnrodite) in place of the micaceous serpentine. 



Thus it is evident that the serpentine is changed from mica. 

 Were it not for the ready cleavage and the special optical charac- 

 ters of the serpentine, it should be regarded merely as a pseudo- 

 morph. The occasional markings at angles of 120°, though scarce 

 and imperfect, are in harmony with the same character belonging 

 to several other micaceous species among the magnesian h3^drous 

 silicates, and indicate a close relationship between the serpentine 

 group and the Vermiculite group of minerals. 



It is intere ting to find in the quartz, deweylite and serpentine, 

 just described, such complete evidence that they have been derived 

 from the direct alteration of graphic granite i pegmatite). While 

 the albite and muscovite have changed into deweylite and serpentine 

 respectivel}', the quartz has been broken up into cleavage frag- 

 ments, and scattered through the deweylite. This fracturing of 

 the quartz may, perhaps, give a clue to the method of alteration. 

 As Hunt^ has suggested, in an early yjeriod of geological histor}-, 

 when the earth's crust was hotter than now, and when a high tem- 

 perature existed even at slight depths, thermal waters would abound 

 and chemical changes would be rapid. Should such waters, highh' 

 charged with magnesian salts, come in contact with the heated 



1 System of Mineralogy, p. 465. 

 - Chem. and Geol. Essays, p. 306. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



feldspathic rocks, there might result such a change as is here shown 

 to have occurred. Certain facts which the speaker had observed in 

 the serpentine deposits of Chester County, Penna., notably in 

 Brinton's quarr}', indicate that a change from a granitic dyke into 

 serpentine is not an uncommon occurrence. 



The two points of interest ofliered by the specimens here described 

 are, 1. The crystallization of serpentine, as shown by its optical 

 character; 2. The direct alteration of the feldspar and mica of 

 graphic granite into the magnesian minerals, deweylite arid ser- 

 pentine, while the quartz has been fractured. 



Contraction of Vegetable Tissues Under Frost. — At the last 

 meeting of the Botanical Section, Mr. Meehan referred to a 

 prevalent opinion that the liquid in vegetable tissues congealed as 

 ordinary liquid does, and, expanding, often caused trees to burst 

 with an explosive sound. Mr. Meehan made experiments with 

 young and vigorous trees, varying from one foot to three feet in 

 circumference. They were carefully measured in early winter when 

 the thermometer W'as about 40°, and again after they had been 

 exposed for many days to a temperature below freezing point, and, 

 at the time of measurement, to 10- above zero. 



In no case was there the slightest evidence of expansion, while 

 in the case of a large maple {Acer dasycarpuni). of 3 feet 11^ 

 inches round, there appeared to be a contraction of | inch. This 

 was the largest tree experimented with. In dead-wood soaked 

 with water, there was an evident expansion; and the cleavage with 

 explosion, noted in the case of forest trees in high nortliern 

 regions, may result from the freezing of liquid in the centre or 

 less vital parts of the trunks of trees. 



In some hardy succulents, however, instead of expansion under 

 frost, there was a marked contraction. The joints or sections of 

 stem in Opuntia Rafinesqiii and O. Missoiiriensis.^ shrink remark- 

 abl}^ with the lowering of the temperature. As soon as the ther- 

 mometer passes the freezing point, the shrinkage is so great that 

 the whole surface has the wrinkled appearance presented by the 

 face of some very aged person. A piece of Opuntia Bajinesgui^ 

 which in November measured 4 inches in length, is but 3i now, 

 and is not half the thickness it was in the autumn. In the winter 

 when the thermometer was down to 10° above zero, the pen-knife 

 penetrated the tissue just as easily as in summer, and no trace 

 could be discovered of congelation in the juices of the plant. 

 Other succulents exhibited more or less signs of shrinkage under 

 extreme cold. Mamillaria NuttaUH, and M. vivipara, with 

 Echinocactus Simpsoni, a mamillose form, drew the mammae 

 upwards, and had them appressed as closely as the spines would 

 allow — and some species of Sempervivum did the same. This 

 could only be accomplished by the contraction of the main axis 

 from the apex downwards. Sedum Hispanicum, which has not a 

 succulent axis, contracts its leaves into longitudinal wrinkles, pre- 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILA DELPHI A. 75 



senting the appearance of being withered or dead. They expand 

 again in a few days of temperature above the freezing point. 

 Specimens of this Sedum, and of Opuntia 3Iissouriensis, preserved 

 just above freezing point under glass, did not shrivel — and a plant 

 of Echinocactus Simpsoyii. taken under cover, after the mammae 

 had been appressed by frost, expanded them to its summer con- 

 dition in a short time afterwards. 



Assuming from these facts that the liquids in plants which are 

 known to endure frost without injuiy, did not congeal, it might be 

 a question as to whfit power the}^ owed this successful resistance. 

 It was probably a vital power, for the sap of plants, after it was 

 drawn from the tree, congealed easily. In the large maple tree 

 already referred to, the juice not solidified in the tree, exudes 

 from the wounded portions of branches and then freezes, hanging 

 as icicles often six inches long from the trees. 



March 20. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty -eight persons present. 



Note on a New Gold-purple. — Dr. George A. Konig stated that 

 while experimenting with a solution containing 



Ca,H.As.,0, . . . = 5-242 



CaSO, . . . . = 2-983 



CaCl, . . . . = 4-890 



MgCl, . . . . = 2-736 



AuCl, . . . . = 0-112 



H,As04 • . . = 10-290 



26-163 grains per liter, 

 he observed that upon adding to it very slowly- a solution of 

 one part of crystallized ferrous sulphate in ten parts of water, 

 stirring vigorously after each drop, at first a white turbidit}' 

 formed which gradually assumed a very rich purple color. The 

 flocculent precipitate settles completely in twenty -four hours, but 

 may be collected on a filter at once. Sometimes the purple color 

 develops graduall}^ requiring several hours, the precipitate being 

 white for some time. This result obtains, when less ferrous salt 

 is added than required. One cub. cent., containing y^^ milligr. of 

 gold, of the above solution with yV cub. cent, of ferrous solution, 

 developed a ver}^ fine precipitate. Sometimes the purple does 

 not develop at all ; the precipitate turns bluish gray and 

 remains so. 



This purple substance can be dried at 100° C. without change of 

 color. Heated to red heat the pieces assume a glazed appearance 

 and turn black ; but the fine powder again shows a blue-purple 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



color. The purple obtained from 250 cub. cent, of the solution 

 contained 



As.,05 . . = 0-0583 gram. 



Fe,0. 



Gold (Au) 

 CaSO, 

 The onlj^irold-purple her 



= 0-0340 " 



= 0-0188 " 



= 0-0060 " 

 i-etofore known was the Purple of Cassius, 

 obtained by adding a mixture of stannic and stannous chlorides 

 to a dilute gold solution. Authors are divided in their opinions 

 as to whether the gold is contained therein in the metallic state 

 and only mechanically admixed as a red allotropic modification, 

 or chemically combined as gold dioxide. The speaker has 

 inclined hitherto to the first Anew, and finds in this ferric arseniate 

 gold-purple, physically so verj- analagous to the stannic gold- 

 purple, a strong support to the mechanical hypothesis. Dilute 

 hydrochloric acid decomposes this purple at once into brown 

 gold, and arsenico-ferric solution. 



A Flint Nodule from the Greensand of New Jersey. — Prof. 

 Leidy directed attention to a flint nodule, presented this evening, 

 obtained from the greensand of Peniberton, N. J. It is discoid, 

 about the size of a dollar, pitted and smooth, homogeneous and 

 bluish black, and exhibits no trace of organic remains. He 

 remarked that as flint nodules, regarded to be of organic origin, 

 were so exceedingly abundant in the chalk formations of Europe, 

 he had wondered that similar nodules were not of more frequent 

 occurrence in the greensand deposits, of contemporary age, in 

 our country. The nodule presented was the only one of the kind 

 he had cvei" seen from the New Jersey marl. 



March 27, 

 Mr. Geo, W, Tryon, Jr,, in the chair. 

 Forty-five persons present. 



April 3. 



Rev. Dr. Henry C. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Aztec Music," by H. T. Cresson, was 

 presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1883] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



OS THE MUTUAL RELATIONS OF IHE BUNOTHERIAN MAMMALIA. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



The name Bimotheria was proposed by me for a series of 

 Mammalia whicli resemble in most technical characters the Eden- 

 tata and the Rodeutia. That is, they agree with these orders in 

 having small, nearly smooth cerebral hemispheres, which leave 

 the olfactory lobes and cerebellum entirely exposed, and in some 

 instances the hemispheres do not cover the mesencephalum also. 

 From the two orders in question, however, the}'^ are easilj'^ distin- 

 guished. Their enamel-covered teeth separate them from the 

 Edentata, while the articulation of the lower jaw is different from 

 that found in the Rodentia. It is a transverse ginglymus, with 

 a postglenoid process in the BvMOtheria^ as distinguished from 

 the longitudinal groove, permitting anteroposterior motion, of the 

 Rodentia. 



Such a group as is thus characterized will include two existing 

 groups recognized as orders — the Prosimiye and the Insectivora. 

 The latter group has always been a crux to systematists, and 

 when we consider the skeleton alone, as from the standpoint of the 

 palaeontologist, the difficulty is not diminished. Various extinct 

 types discovered in latter j^ears, chiefly in the Eocene formations, 

 have been additions to this intermediate series of forms, giving 

 even closer relations with the orders already adjacent; i. e., the 

 Edentata, the Rodentia, the Prosimias, and the Carnivora. As is 

 known, the groups corresponding to these orders have been 

 named respectively the Taeniodonta, Tillodonta, Mesodonta, and 

 Creodonta. With great apparent diversity, these subordei*s show 

 unmistakable gradations into each other and the two recent orders 

 already mentioned. As such, I ma}' mention Fsittacotherium, 

 which relates the Tfeniodonta and Tillodonta ; Esthonyx, which 

 relates the Tillodonta with nearly all the other suborders ; 

 Achsenodon^ which connects Creodonta and Mesodonta, and 

 Gynodontoviyi<, which may be Mesodont or Prosimian. Then 

 the existing Ghiromys most certainl}- connects Tillodonta and 

 Prosimise. 



My original definitions of the suborders of the Mesodonta, given 

 in vol. ii of the U. S. Geological Surve}- under Capt. G. M, 

 Wheeler, p. 85, omitted the Prosimife, and embraced a number 




IS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



of characters whose significance must be reexamined. Thus it is 

 impossible to characterize the Creodonta as lacking a trochlear 

 groove of the astragalus, in view of the form of that element in 

 Mesonyx and Mioclsenus, where the groove is more or less dis- 

 tinct. It is impossible to distinguish the Insectivora from the 

 Creodonta by the deficiency of canine and large development of 

 incisor teeth. In Ehynchocyon the canines are large, and the 

 superior incisors wanting, while in Genfetes the arrangement of 

 these teeth is precisely as in the Creodonta. As to the large 

 Achaenodon and other Arctocyonidae, I find no characters'whatever 

 to distinguish them from the generally small Mesodonta. 



In view of these inconsistencies, I have reexamined the subject, 

 and find the following definitions to be more nearh' coincident 

 with the natural boundaries of the divisions of this large order. 

 The importance of the character of the tritubercular superior 

 molar has recently impressed me (see Proceedings of the 

 Academy, 1883, p. .56), as it had previously done Prof Gill. 

 This zoologist has already distinguished two divisions of the 

 Insectivora (without the Galeopithecidse), by the forms of the 

 superior molar teeth. The first possesses quadritubercular molars 

 above, the second tritubercular. That these types represent 

 important stages in the development of the molar dentition I have 

 no doubt. These characters far outweigh in importance those 

 expressing the forms of the skull, matters of proportion only, 

 with which a few S3'stematists unnecessarily overload their diag- 

 noses. Such characters are of little more than specific value, and 

 serve to obscure the mind of the inquirer for a true analysis. 

 They may be used ompiricall}', it is true, to determine relation- 

 ships when the diagnostic parts are wanting. 



I propose to transfer the Insectivora with tritubercular superior 

 molars to the Creodonta, in spite of the fact that some of them 

 (Mythomys, Sulenodon^ Ghryaochloris) have but weakly developed 

 canine teeth, and Chrysochloris has large incisors. As an extreme 

 form, JEsthonyx will follow, standing next the Tillodonta. It will 

 then be necessary to transfer the Arctocyonidae and all the 

 Mesodonta to the Insectivora, where they will find affinity with the 

 Tupaeidse. These have well-developed canines and small incisors, 

 as in the extinct groups named. The Ghiromyidae must be dis- 

 tinguished from all of the other suborders, on account of its 

 rodent-like incisors, combined with its lemur-like feet. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



The characters of the six suborders will then be as follows : 



I. Incisor teeth growing from persistent pulps : 

 Canines also growing from less persistent pulps, agreeing with 

 external incisors in having molariform crowns ; i. Tseniodonta. 

 Canines rudimental or wanting ; hallux not opposable ; 



II. Tillodonta. 

 Canines none ; hallux opposable ; iii. Daubentonioidea. 



II. Incisor teeth not growing from persistent pulps : 

 Superior true molars quadrituberculate ; hallux opposable ; 



IV. Prosimiee. 

 Superior true molars quadrituberculate ; hallux not opposable ; 



V. Insectivora. 



Superior true molars trituberculate or bituberculate ; ^ hallux not 



opposable : vi. Creodonta. 



While the above scheme defines the groups exactl}^ and, so far 

 as can now be ascertained, naturall}', I do not doubt but that 

 future research among the extinct forms will add much necessary 

 information which we do not now possess. It is possible that the 

 group I called Mesodonta may yet be distinguished from the 

 Insectivora bj^ characters 3^et unknown. But I cannot admit any 

 affinity between this group and any form of '' Pachj'derms," as 

 suggested by Filhol, or of Suillines, as believed by Lyddeker.^ 

 Such suppositions are in direct opposition to what we know of 

 the phylogen}" of the Mammalia. These views are apparently 

 suggested by the Bunodont type of teeth found in various 

 Mesodonta, but that character gives little ground for systematic 

 determination among Eocene Mammalia, and has deceived palae- 

 ontologists from the daj'S of Cuvier to the present time. The 

 only connecting point where there ma}' be doubt as to the ungulate 

 or unguiculate type of a mammal is the family Periptychidae. of 

 the suborder Gondylarthra. The suborder Hyracoidea may fur- 

 nish another index of convergence. 



^ The internal tubercle is wanting in the last two superior molars in 

 Hyoenodon. This genus, of which the osteology remains largely unknown, 

 has been stated by Gervais to possess a brain of higher type than the 

 Creodonta. Prof. Scott, of Princeton, is, however, of the opinion that this 

 determination is erroneous, and that Hymnodon is a true Creodont in this 

 and other respects. If so, the genus will perhaps enter the Amblyctonidoe. 



- Memoirs Geological Survey India, Ser. x, 1883, p. 145. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



The families included in these suborders will be the following : 

 T^NiODONTA. Calamodontidse ; Ectoganidse. 

 TiLLODONTA. TUlotheriidse. 

 Daubentonioidea. Ghiromyidse. 

 Prosimi^. Tarsiidae; (?) Anaptomorphidse ; (?) Mixodectidee ; 



Lemuridse. 

 Insectivora. Soricidse ; Erinaceidse ; Macroacelidse : Tupaeidae ; 



Adapidae ; ^ Arctocyonidse. 

 Creodonta. Talpidse ; Chrysochlorididse ; Esthonychidse; Gen- 



tetidae ( = Leptictidae dim) ; Oxyaenidae ; Miacidae ; Amblyc- 



tonidae ; Mesonychidae. 



I at one time called this order b^'^ the name Insectivora, a course 

 which some zoologists maj' prefer. But a name should as nearly 

 as possible adhere to a group to which it was first applied, and 

 whose definition has become currently associated with it. Such 

 an application is correct in fact, and is a material aid to the 

 memor\-. There are various precedents for the adoption of a new 

 general term for a group composed of subordinate divisions which 

 have themselves alread}^ received names. 



In order to determine the number of internal tubercles in some 

 of the Inseclivora, so as to ascertain the affinities of some ques- 

 tionable genera, it is first necessary to examine the homologies 

 of the cusps of the molar teeth. The opossums are characterized 

 b}^ the presence of three longitudinal series of tubeicles on the 

 superior molar. The homologies of these cusps are rendered 

 clear by the character presented by the fourth superior premolar, 

 where the anterior intermediate is wanting. The external cusps 

 are really such, and are not developed from a cingulum external 

 to the true external cusps, as appears at first sight to be the case 

 with such animals as the Talpidse. The intermediate cusps are 

 really such, although the posterior looks like the apex of a V- 

 shaped external cusp. In Peratherium the external cusps are 

 smaller than in Bidelphys, and the intermediate Y's so much 



' Two species of Pelycodus must be removed from this genus and family, 

 and be placed in the Creodonta with Mioclcenus. They are the P. pehidens 

 and P- angulaius, which have the posterior inner tubercle of the superior 

 molars, a mere projection of the cingulum. I place them in a new genus 

 which differs from Mioclmnus in the possession of an internal cusp of the 

 fourth inferior premolar, under the name of Chriacus ; type C. pehidens. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



better developed, that the type is much like that of the Talpidae, 

 in whose neighborhood I originally referred it. 



This leads to a consideration of the question of the homologies 

 of the cusps in the genera of the old order of Inaectivora proper, 

 and of the Creodonta. Mr. St. George Mivart has briefly discussed 

 the question, so far as relates to the former group.^ He com- 

 mences with the primitive quadrituberculate tj'pe presented by 

 Gymnura and Erinaceus, and believes that the external cusps 

 occupy a successivel}' more and more internal position till they 

 come to be represented by the apices of well developed V's, as in 

 the ungulate types. The Y's are well developed in several 

 families, and in Chrysochloris the two Y's are supposed to be 

 united and to constitute almost the entire apex of the crown, 

 while in Centetes the same kind of a Y forms a still larger part 

 of the crown. 



I believe thnt these conclusions must be modified, in the light 

 of the characters of various extinct genera, and of the genus 

 Bidelj^hys. In the first place there is an inherent improbability 

 in the supposition that the external Y's of the superior molars of 

 the Insuctivora have had the same origin as those of the Ungulata. 

 The movements of the jaws in the two groups are different, the 

 one being vertical, the other partially lateral. In the one, acute 

 apices are demanded ; in the other, grinding foces and edges. We 

 have corresponding Y's in the inferior dental series, and we 

 regard those as produced by the connection of alternating cusps 

 b^' oblique ridges. In homologizing the superior cusps, we have 

 as elements, two external, two intermediate, and two internal 

 cusps. The first are opposite the external roots, and the anterior 

 internal is opposite the internal root. 



First, as regards Genletes and Ghrysochloria. Besides the 

 strained character of the h} pothesis that supposes the Y-shaped 

 summit of the crown to represent two Y's fused together, there is 

 good evidence obtainable in support of the belief that the triangle 

 in question is the usual one pi'esented by the Creodonta. 



This clearly consists of the two external and the anterior 

 internal cusps united by angular ridges. The form is quite the 

 same as in Lepticfis and Ictops, and nearly that of Deltatherium, 

 where the external cusps are present. Gentetes and Ghrysochloris 

 only differ from these in that the external cusps are wanting. In 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, ii, 138, figures. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



addition, the latter genus presents a rudiment of the posterior 

 inner tubercle, as is seen in Deltatherium. An explanation similar 

 to this is admitted by Mr. Mivart to appl}^ to the cusps of the 

 inferior molar of Gentetes. It remains to ascertain whether the 

 cusp in this genus, Chrysochloris, etc., represents an intermediate 

 or not. 



Secondly, as regards the Talpidse and Soricidse^ where the 

 external V's are well marked. If we examine the external cusps 

 in the genus Didelphys^ we find that the posterior one becomes 

 gradually more anterior in its position, until on the second true 

 molar it stands largely above the interspace between the roots, in- 

 stead of over the posterior root. It will also be seen that the 

 anterior intermediate tubercle is distinct, and of insignificant 

 proportions, while the posterior intermediate is large and is 

 related to the posterior external, as is the apex of a V to its 

 anterior base. In this arrangement I conceive that we have an 

 explanation of the Y's of the Talpidse and Soricidae. The first 

 true molar of Scalops is a good deal like that of Didelphys^ but 

 the anterior cusp is larger and there is no anterior intermediate 

 cusp, while the posterior external is of reduced size. The poste- 

 rior Y is better developed than in Didelphys, but is composed in 

 the same way, of a posterior intermediate cusp, and a posterior 

 external with a posterior heel. These are united by stronger 

 ridges in Scalops, Condylura and Blarina, than in Didelphy.n. 

 On the second true molar in Scalops, a Y represents the anterior 

 external cusp of the first true molar. Whether this Y has a con- 

 stitution like the posterior one, i. e., is composed of external and 

 intermediate cusps joined, is difficult to determine ; but it is prob- 

 ably so constituted. It seems to be pretty clearly the case in 

 Blarina, where the fourth premolar and first true molar may be 

 compai'ed, with a resulting demonstration of the correctness of 

 this view. In Condylura, the Y's have become more developed 

 and the external cusps reduced, so that the analysis is more 

 diflftcult. 



This interpretation applied to Urotrichus and Galeopithecus 

 gives them quadrituberculate molars, not trituberculate, as deter- 

 mined by Mivart. Mystomys is tritubercular. The intermediate 

 tubercles are present, but are imperfectly connected with the ex- 

 ternal, so that Y's are not developed (vide figures of Mivart and 

 Allman). This genus offers ^s rnuch confirmation of the homology 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



here proposed as do the opossums, but it differs from the latter 

 in having the anterior intermediate tubercle the larger, instead of 

 the posterior. Mystomys and Solenodon also confirm my deter- 

 mination of the homologies in Gentetes} 



In conclusion I give the following synoptic view of the consti- 

 tution of the superior molar teeth in various genera of the 

 Bunotheria. 



Cusps Present. 



1 This view was first advanced by the writer in the Annual Report U. S. 

 Geol. Survey Terrs., 1873 (74), p. 472. 




84 proceedings op the academy of [1883. 



April 10. 

 Rev. H, C. McCooK, D. D., Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 



Notes on EchinocactuH. — Mr. Thomas Meehan announced, at 

 the meeting of the Botanical Section, the discovery of sensitive 

 stamens in Uchinocactus WMpplei. This peculiarity had been 

 long known in Opuntia Rafinesqui and allied species, as well as in 

 Portulaca, whieli, though its natural order was regarded as very 

 distinct in systems of classification, had much in common with 

 Cactaceae. The motion of the stamens when touched in this 

 species of Echinocactns was not instantaneous, several seconds 

 sometimes elapsing before the motion responded to the touch. 

 The flowers of this species are unable to expand to anj' great 

 extent, on account of their short tube, surrounded by long and 

 stiff' spines. If the flowers could expand as in Opuntia, and the 

 stamens lie fl:it, as in that genus. Mr. Meehan suggested that the 

 motion might be equal to that observed in Opuntia. The motion 

 in Opuntia was not always up towards the pistil, but might be 

 horizontal, to the right or to tlie left — there seemed to be no rule. 

 That seemed to be the case also in the Echinocactus. The bending 

 was from the base, as the filament retained a perfectly straight 

 line during the movement. 



Mr. Meehan further remarked that in descriptions of cactaceous 

 plants, the relative lengtli of the pistil to petals or stamens was 

 often given. He had observed that in many species, about the 

 period of the ejection of the pollen from the anther-cells, the 

 stamens and style were of about equal length, the stellate stigma 

 being just above the mass of anthers; but the style continued to 

 grow after the maturit}- of the anthers, and, in Echinocactus 

 Whip)plei, would finall}' reach to near half an inch above. He 

 had not been able to get anv genera of Cactaceae to fruit under 

 culture except Opuntia^ unless they were artificial!}' pollinized. 

 By the application of the flower's own pollen to the stigma, they 

 sometimes perfected fruit. 



Mr. Meelian also remarked that in botanical descriptions, 

 Echinocactus Whipjplei and Echinocactus polyancislrus were 

 described as having greenish or 3'ellow flowers. His plants had 

 bright purple flowers, and he had no doubt were correc ly referred 

 to the species named. They were from southern Utah. 



Referring to Echinocactus uncinatus, he remarked that speci- 

 mens collected in New Mexico by George Vasey, and blooming 

 under culture, had the central spine double the length of the 

 others, wliereas in the figure in Pfeifl"er they are all represented 

 as uniform, and there were no green-edged sepals or bracts at the 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



base of the flower, as in that figure, warranting the var. Wrightii 

 Eng. 



On the Relations of Heat to the Sexes of Floicers. — At the 

 meeting of the Botanical'Section on April 9, Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 referred to his past communications to the Academy, showing that 

 in monoecious plants female flowers would remain at rest under 

 a temperature which was suflBcient to excite the male flowers to 

 active development. Hence a few comparatively warm days in 

 winter or early spring would bring the male flowers to maturity, 

 while the female flowers remained to advance onl}^ under a higher 

 and more constant temperature. In this manner the explanation 

 was offered why such trees were often barren. The male flowers 

 disappeared before the females opened, and hence the latter were 

 unfertilized. He refei-red especially to some branches of Corylus 

 AveUana, the English hazel-nut, which he exhibited before the 

 Section last spring, in which the male floAvers (catkins) were past 

 maturity, the anthers having opened and discharged their pollen, 

 and the catkins crumbling under a light touch, but there Avere uo 

 appearances of action in the female flower-buds. There were no 

 nuts on this tree last season. The present season was one of un- 

 usualh' low temperature. There had not been spasmodic warmth 

 enough to bring forward the particularl}' excitable maple-tree 

 blossoms. The hazel-nut had not, therefore, had its male blos- 

 soms brought prematurely forward. He exhibited specimens 

 from the same tree as last season, showing the catkins in a young 

 condition of development, only half the flowers showing their 

 anthers, while the female flower-buds had their pretty purple 

 stigmas protruding from nearly all of them. 



Mr. Meehan remarked that his observations the past few seasons 

 had been so carefully made that he hardly regarded confirmation 

 necessar}^ but believed the further exhibition of these specimens 

 might at least serve to draw renewed attention to his former com- 

 munications. 



April 17. 

 Rev. Henry G. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



AZTEC MUSIC. 

 BY H, T. CRESSON. 



Primitive music seems to have been limited to a few sounds, 

 produced either b}" percussion or by means of rude instruments ; 

 these sounds or notes in most cases, as musical authorities unite 

 in asserting, represented five tones of the diatonic scale, viz., the 

 tonic or prime note, second, third, fifth and sixth. This would 

 indicate that most barbarous nations were ignorant of the fourth 

 and seventh tones of the scales as known to us. Among the 

 Aztecs, whose remains show superior advancement in the arts, a 

 more thorough appreciation of music evidently existed. To speak 

 first of their percussive music, the huehuetl or large drum of the 

 great temple, at the ancient pueblo of Tenochtitlan, was cavered 

 by the skins of serpents, and when beaten could be heard at a 

 distance of several miles. They had clay balls or rattles placed 

 inside of their grotesque clay images, also within the handles 

 attached to their earthenware vessels, which are generally hollow, 

 and contain pebbles or small pellets of clay. 



The Poinsett collection possesses several objects among its 

 interesting and valuable specimens of ancient Mexican art, which, 

 iiiifortunately, are much injured or almost destroyed ; these are in 

 th-' form of a serpent's head, with protruding forked tongue, and 

 have a ball of clay placed within the mouth. The first-named 

 portion is attached to a handle of terra-cotta, to which, after an 

 examination of several specimens, I am inclined to think, were 

 joined large hollow cylinders of the same material. A portion of 

 these still remain united to the handle, suggesting that they must 

 have been concave. When shaken to and fro, the ball within the 

 head of this terra-cotta serpent rebounds from side to side, thus 

 producing a clear sound resembling that given by our American 

 rattlesnake {Crotalus horridus) when irritated. A series of these 

 instruments may have been used in their religious ceremonies, and 

 were no doubt placed upon cylinders of large size, balanced so as 

 to regain the perpendicular when set in motion, and in swaying 

 from side to side produced a rattling sound, suggesting that of 

 the serpent above named, which was esteemed a sacred animal by 

 these people. 




PROC. A. N. S. PHIU., 1883. 



PL I!. 



O 9 • 





?^ 



.^ 



0^ 



c^ 



o 



o 



r\ 







c 



Go ^ '^ k 



^•^ 1^ Hi-. ^ 





^- ^ - S. 





3 



O 



c o 



o 



O 



o 



o 



o o 



^ 





^ 



I 



.'N 



CRESSON ON AZTEC MUSIC. 





PROC. A, H. S. PHILA., 



CRESSON ON AZTEC MUSIC. 





1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 8Y 



The desire to make imitations of objects by which the}' were 

 surrounded emit musical tones, was no doubt suggested by the 

 songs of birds and various sounds produced by animals. Gurney, 

 in his admirable work entitled the •' Power of Sound,'' page 143, 

 states that the third note of the scale has had a natural charm for 

 man as for the cuckoo ; thus this well-known musical authority 

 recognizes the fact that certain musical sounds or tones were 

 agreeable to the ears of man ; and hereafter, in a series of whistles 

 or pitch-pipes, exhumed from the sepulchres of these Aztec people, 

 I will endeavor to show that one of them is pitched almost 

 precisely in the tones given by the Mexican Hyladae. That 

 musical sounds attract the attention of barbarians and savages, 

 is well authenticated by travelers and those who have lived 

 among ihem ; it may therefore be supposed that these children 

 of nature noticed and strove to reproduce sounds, which, how- 

 ever harsh and unmusical to us, to them were pleasing, because 

 thev recalled familiar objects. I am of the opinion that the chat- 

 tering of macaws and parrots can be imitated upon several instru- 

 ments I have denominated bird-calls, belonging to the Poinsett 

 collection, in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ; b}^ 

 short, quick blowing, they emit sounds very similar to those given 

 by a flock of the above-mentioned birds. 



Wind instruments were known to the Aztecs, as above indicated, 

 by the bird-calls ; they also possessed flutes, whistles made of sea- 

 shells and flageolets of baked clay or terra-cotta. 



There is a vase of this last-named matei'ial in the W. S. Vaux 

 collection, now in the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, upon which musical sounds may be produced, by 

 applying the lips to certain parts. This unique specimen of a wind 

 instrument was formerly in the possession of my friend Professor 

 Leidy, and afterward came into that of the late W.S. Yaux, Esq. 

 It is somewhat Roman in form, of a dark color, and ornamented 

 by four grotesque masks, placed around the exterior edge or upper 

 rim of the base, between which, and the interior of the vessel, 

 there is a broad plane some two inches in width, that is perforated 

 at intervals by small slits at each side, exactly opposite the masks. 

 When covered by the lips and blown into, these slits emit certain 

 musical sounds ; by closing one of the e3es in the masks, which 

 are hollow and connect b}^ means of air-passages with tlie interior 

 of the vase and slits upon the plane surface, some approach to a 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1888. 



half-tone lower than that procUiced bv leaving open the holes, can 

 be obtained. The discovery of the musical powers of this vase 

 is interesting, and I shall repeat the account of it given to me 

 bj' Professor Leidy : *' Having been attracted by its artistic form 

 and decoration, I bought the vase, and some time afterward pro- 

 ceeded to clean the slits or elongated holes in the rim and eyes 

 of the masks, these being filled with earth ; in applying m}' lips 

 to the slits, so as to blow out particles of dirt which remained 

 therein, I found to mj^ surprise that they emitted musical sounds." 



Mr. E. A. Barber, in a valuable article upon " Indian Music," 

 contributed to the American Naturalist of March, 1883, page 

 270, mentions a curious wind instrument of turtle-like form, which 

 was procured on the island of Ometepec, by the late Dr. Berendt 

 (during his recent excavations among the ruins and mounds of 

 Central America), which, by certain manipulations, can be made 



to produce a number of airs " This unique relic is the 



first of the kind found among the remains of the old Nahuatl 

 races which evinces any particular advancement in the art of 

 music." 



I must beg leave to diflfer from Mr. Barber in this last assertion, 

 from the fact that in the Poinsett collection there exist Aztec 

 flageolets capable of producing not only the fourth and seventh of 

 the diatonic scale, but also the entire chromatic scale. A descrip- 

 tion of one of these flageolets will first be necessary, before 

 explaining how the above-mentioned scales may be obtained. It 

 measures nine inches in length, and the thickest portion is about 

 three-quarters of an inch in width — being generally in the centre 

 of the flageolet. The neck is considerably flattened, and measures 

 se ven-ei ghths of an inch in width , grad iially contracting at the mouth- 

 hole, and growing more cylindrical in form as it approaches the 

 centre of the instrumert. Viewed in profile a graceful curve from 

 above downward joins the neck to the body. At the junction of 

 these two parts may be seen protruding the portion which I have 

 denominated the clay reed (Plate III, A); through this the cur- 

 rent of air passes from the lungs of the performer into the body 

 of the instrument, which is pierced b^^ four finger-holes. ^ The 



' After a careful search I am unable to find in the Poinsett collec- 

 tion of Mexican antiquities, any Aztec flageolets possessing five f nger- 

 holes. as stated by Mr. Barber in the Americr/n Naturalist of March, 




1883.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



terminal portion, or bell, is slightly concave exteriorly, of circular 

 form, and decorated with designs of unique patterns, which have 

 been stamped thereon while in a moist condition, by means of 

 forms or dies ; some of these, evidently used for a similar purpose, 

 and made of baked clay, are to be seen in the Academy. The 

 internal portion of this bell is hollow, becoming convex as it 

 approaches the edges, and contracting at the point of connection 

 with the tube or barrel, to a thickness of half an inch. Around 

 this is formed a small cup-like cavity, which bears a most important 

 part in performing upon the instrument. A careful examination 

 and anah'sis of the construction of these instruments was made 

 from a large number of fragments, some of which were splintered 

 and broken in such a manner that the internal structure was clearly 

 shown. It appeared that they must have been formed in four 

 parts, the neck, clay-reed, body and foot or bell, which were 

 afterwards united together while in a moist condition. -Traces of 

 the sutures, although in most cases concealed by the modeling, 

 can be detected in man}' of the instruments. 



It has been asserted in the beginning of this article, that the 

 fourth and seventh tones of the diatonic scales could be produced 

 upon these four-holed instruments (Plate III, fig. 1), and as this 

 assertion is somewhat contradictory to most authorities who have 

 hitherto written upon the subject, my method of proceeding shall 

 be given in detail, with the result obtained. I propose to show — 



I. That the fourth, seventh and octave tones of the diatonic 

 scale as known to us exist in the Aztec instruments. 



II. That the additional sounds or semi-tones, which constitute 

 the chromatic scale, are likewise present. 



That the fourth and seventh tones do exist in the scale of the 

 ancient Mexicans or Aztecs, and can be produced upon their clay 

 flageolets, will be hereinafter shown. 



The objection may be raised, however, that although we, with 

 our knowledge of music, which has only been gained by the 

 experience and wisdom of centuries, can obtain all these tones, 

 yet the Aztecs may have been ignorant of the abilitj' of the 



1883, page 270 ; although the ancient Peruvians seem to have possessed 

 flutes of this description, one of which is now in the cabinet of the 

 American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia, and is mentioned by 

 Mr. H. S. Phillips, Jr., their Corresponding Secretary, in his interesting 

 report for 1883, p. 15. 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



instruments under consideration to produce them. In answer to 

 this, I will simply state that such an objection would be against 

 the evidence of historical and musical authorities, who have 

 demonstrated that musical instruments of all nations, even of the 

 most savage, have been constructed with a thorough knowledge 

 of their full value and ability in the production of musical tones. 

 This is shown, even in our da}^, by the savage tribes of Africa, 

 and those of almost inaccessible regions in Asia, who thoroughly 

 understand the instruments in use among them ; and from these, 

 we, with all our knowledge and musical comprehension, produce 

 no other tones than can the natives themselves. 



The flageolets, having been tested and compared with the flute 

 and organ, were found to be pitched in the following keys : two of 

 similar color and shape stand in the ke}- of C natural, and one of 

 like color in B natural ; another, smaller in size, stands in F sharp, 

 and the most perfect sounds emitted came from the flageolet of a 

 dark brown color, which was pitched in the key of B flat ; upon this 

 instrument most of the experiments were conducted. It was found 

 that by covering all four holes of the flageolet with the finger, 

 C natural was produced with the bell open (Plate II), and by closing 

 this last-named portion with the little finger, B flat could be ob- 

 tained, thus lowering the instrument a tone and a half in sound. 

 This action I have denominated finger-stopping, and it is a curious 

 fact, that this same method has been practiced by musicians of 

 our day with the hand upon the French horn. The fact having 

 been demonstrated, that the cavity in the cup-shaped depression had 

 been used for this purpose, it was necessary to find whether the 

 finger-stopping could best be accomplished by the fourth finger 

 of the right hand, or the little finger thereof. After repeated trials, 

 the little finger was found best adapted to that purpose, which 

 obliges the musician to hold the flageolet in the following manner: 

 the body of the instrument rests between the ball of the thumb 

 and the first or index finger of the left hand, covering 4 D 

 (Plate II), thus supporting the instrument. Hole No. 3 C is 

 covered by the second finger of the same hand, No. 2 B by 

 the index finger of the right hand, and 1 A by the second finger ; 

 the little finger is used as stated — for the finger-stopping. The 

 instrument being held as above described, the fourth of the scale 

 or E flat can be obtained by half-closing the second hole or letter 

 2 B (Plate II), 3 C and 4 D remaining closed. The sei;e/?</i, which 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



is A natural, is obtained by closing 2 B,and leaving the other holes 

 open. If these notes thus obtained be compared by a competent 

 musician with any wind instrument of concert pitch, such as the 

 flute, the truth of this assertion will be evident. 



Musical authorities seem to have arrived at the somewhat hasty 

 conclusion, that the Aztec people were onl}' possessed of a knowl- 

 edge of the so-called Pentatonic scale, but with all due deference 

 to their opinion, I must beg leave to differ upon this point, as it 

 is not probable that intervals which are so easily obtained, were 

 unknown to artisans capable of manufacturing these flageolets of 

 terra-cotta, pitched in different keys, and of determining the exact 

 distance apart of the finger-holes. This superior knowledge of 

 their artisans is still further shown by the ingenious and scientific 

 arrangement of the finger-perforations made in their whistles, or 

 pitch-pipes, described hereafter, which, when covered, reduce the 

 tone exactly a fourth ; equaling the dominant of the scale. 



The more I study the musical instruments of these people, the 

 firmer becomes my conviction that they must have possessed a 

 full knowledge of the diatonic and chromatic scales ; which can 

 be produced upon the four-holed clay flageolets by any one capable 

 of manipulating our modern flutes. 



The instrument which stands in B flat, can be made to produce 

 that note bj^ closing all the holes and the bell (full finger-stop). 

 B natural is more difficult to obtain, and is produced by a slight 

 movement, with much care and precision, of the little finger out- 

 ward from the centre of the cup-like cavit}' ; from which fact, and 

 the skill required to produce C sharp, E flat and G natural, I am 

 inclined to believe that the Aztecs, like the ancient Peruvians, 

 possessed musicians trained from early youth, who no doubt 

 assisted in their religious ceremonies and festivals. C natural 

 is produced with the four holes closed, and the cup-like cavit}^ 

 open.i C sharp, 1 A half open, 2 B, 3 C, 4 D closed ; D natural, 

 1 A entirel}^ open, 2 B, 3 C and 4 D closed. E flat, or the 

 fourth of the scale, is produced by leaving 1 A open, 2 B, half- 

 closed, 3 C and 4 D closed; E natural, 2 B open, 1 A, 3 C and 

 4 D closed ; P natural, 1 A and 2 B open, 3 C and 4 D closed ; 



' It may be seen iu the Plate, that where it is necessaiy to close the cup- 

 like cavity in these tiageolets, S is used to indicate entirely closed, half S 

 for half-closed, or half finger-stop, and O for open bell. 




92 PROCEEDINGS 01' THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



F sharp, 1 A open, 2 B closed (see Plate), 3 C open and 4 D closed ; 

 G natural, 1 A open, 2 B half-closed, 3 C open, and 4 D closed; 

 A flat or G sharp, 1 A, 2 B, 3 C open, and 4 D closed. A natural, 

 the seventh of the scale, 1 A open, 2 B closed, 3 C and 4 D open. 

 B flat, octave, is obtained by leaving all the holes and the bell 

 open.^ It becomes apparent by the above scales obtained upon 

 these four-fingered cla}^ flageolets, representing the keys of B flat, 

 B natui-al, C natural and F sharp, that many interesting combi- 

 nations could be obtained b}^ their simultaneous use, such as con- 

 certed pieces, each flageolet sustaining a part. 



Professor J. S. Cox says : " I cannot imagine what object they 

 had in view for pitching their flageolets in different tones, unless 

 each instrument was intended to perform a separate part, which 

 when played together produced harmonious sounds ; this method 

 is. used in our day b}' some of the fife and drum corps, there being 



three diflferent kinds of fifes used in concert They 



are too truthful in their various pitches (such as B natural, 

 C natural, B flat, F sharp) for these to be accidental." These 

 opinions of Professor Cox, whose reputation as a soloist upon 

 the Boehm-flute is well known in America, cannot fail to impress 

 the cautious observer that something more than mere accident 

 is represented by these instruments standing in different keys. 



The Aztec whistles, or pitch-pipes, in the collection of antiqui- 

 ties alread}^ mentioned, were ascertained to stand in the key of 

 E flat, and together yield a full octave, so that four persons could 

 play simple melodies upon them.^ The fact that duplicates exist 

 in several of the above-mentioned whistles and flageolets adds 

 much probability to the theory already advanced, that these are 

 not tones which happen to stand in the keys enumerated, but that 



• It lias been suggested that it was possible to produce the entire scale 

 (without closing the bell) by means of careful finger-manipulation upon 

 any reed-formed instrument with four holes. Six notes can be obtained 

 by careful fingering ; an approach to the seventh (though very imperfect 

 and flat in sound) can be produced by leaving all the holes open, and 

 blowing strongly. After repeated trials, I am of the opinion that there is 

 no way of producing the octave upon these four-holed Aztec instruments, 

 except by means of finger-stopping. 



^ I have numbered these pipes from one to eight (tonic to octave). 

 They, with their existing duplicates, may be seen in the museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



thej^ were made by artisans who thoroughl}' understood the prin- 

 ciples of the scales as known to us ; moreover, upon these whistles 

 a ninth, eleventh and twelfth can be obtained (the tenth or 

 G natural is missing), which gives, with this exception, an octave 

 and a fourth. 



Certain grotesque decorations upon these instruments ma}^ 

 have some signification ; the cue which produces E flat, or the 

 tonic of the scale, possessing no ornamentation, is an exception 

 to most all the others, which are enveloped b}' frog-like appen- 

 dages or legs, with feet attached. The bodies are tipped with an 

 ornament resembling the tails of young sparrows, and the under- 

 neath portion thereof is furnished with an appendage or button, 

 pierced by a hole, through which a cord was passed b^^ which it 

 was probably attached to the bod}- of the performer. (Plate III, 

 fig. 3.) 



The ingenious vcay in which the Aztec whistles are modeled is 

 well worth}' of description, and must have occupied a great deal 

 of time to accomplish it. They have no doubt been made in four 

 parts, like the flageolets, and also possess a clay reed, which is 

 enveloped by the neck, to which is attached the body, furnished 

 with a vent-hole. This body is a circular form, something like 

 the bulb of a retort (such as used in our laboratories), and was 

 no doubt fashioned upon a ball-shaped or circular form, and then cut 

 into two portions ; one of these was joined to the neck, and the 

 other piece fastened to it by careful modeling. An example of this 

 can be seen in the double whistle (Plate III, fig. 4), where these two 

 parts are shown somewhat separated ; no doubt the eflect of the 

 action of the heat while in the kiln. The object of thus forming 

 the bod}' in two portions can readily be seen by an examination 

 of these instruments, which are, with few exceptions, very care- 

 full}' made, and the interior portion of the bod}' quite smooth and 

 regular within, as any imperfection would interfere with the regu- 

 larity and fulness of the sound. A smooth round form of some mate- 

 rial was chosen upon which to model or shape the body portion, 

 which it would be necessary to divide in two, so as to release it there- 

 from, thus explaining the division of the above-named parts. The 

 bodies of these whistles are each pierced b}' a stop-hole, which, if 

 left unclosed when the instrument is blown, gives a clear piercing 

 sound ; hy covering the same, a note one-fourth below that given 

 while open, is produced. This hole is generally placed to the 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



right side of a line drawn around the body from the centre of the 

 vent. In playing the scale of E flat, all of the holes in these pipes 

 are left open with the exception of that of pitch-pipe No. 2, which 

 is closed, so as to produce F natural. 



To recapitulate, it would appear : I. That upon the four-holed 

 clay flageolets the chromatic and diatonic scales can be produced 

 with a full octave. II. That the (flay whistles or pitch-pipes, 

 which may be manipulated in quartette, will produce an octave 

 and a fourth. III. From the facts above shown, the Aztecs must 

 have possessed a knowledge of the scales as known to us, which 

 has been fully tested by comparison with the flute and organ. 



These superior attainments in the science of music suggest that 

 musicians of our day have arrived at a somewhat hasty decision 

 in regard to the music of these ancient people having been con- 

 fined within the narrow limits of a so-called pentatonic scale, as 

 it is highly probable that they may have had melodies containing all 

 the tones of the chromatic scale. Their ingenuity and skill in the 

 production of these instruments may well claim the admiration of 

 modern musicians and artisans. It is earnestly hoped that a much- 

 neglected branch of American ethnology — the study of native 

 American music — will hereafter receive the proper investigation 

 due so important a subject. No doubt the researches now in 

 progress, under the auspices of the Bureau of Ethnology at 

 Washington, will develop many interesting facts in this con- 

 nection. 




1883.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 95 



April 24. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine members present. 



The following papers we!re presented for publication : 

 " On the Structure of the Skull of the Hadrosauridae," by 

 Edward D. Cope. 



"On some Vertebrate Forms from the Permian of Illinois," by 

 Edward D. Cope. 



A Social Heliozoan. — Prof Leidy exhibited drawings and made 

 some remarks on a singular Heliozoan recently observed b}- him. 

 His attention had been directed to it by Mr. Edward Potts, who 

 discovered it, contained in considerable numl)ers in water, with 

 vegetal debris, from Lake Hopatcong, X. J., where it had been 

 obtained last autumn. The animal occurred mostly in groups 

 composed of. numerous individuals. One of these groups, of 

 irregular, CA'lindroid shape, 084 mm. long b}" 0'3G mm. broad, was 

 estimated to contain upwards of a hundred individuals. Tliey 

 reminded one of a mass of tangled burs. The}" remained nearly 

 stationary even for twentj'-four hours, and exhibited so little 

 activit}', that without careful scrutiu}^ they might readil}' be taken 

 for some inanimate structure. The individuals composing the 

 groups appeared to be connected together only by mutual attach- 

 ment of their innumerable rays, and none w'ere observed to be 

 associated by cords of protoplasm extending between the bodies 

 of the animals, as seen in Raphidiophrys elegans. The individuals 

 associated together were of two kinds : those which were acti.ve, 

 and a smaller proportion which were in an encysted, quiescent 

 condition. 



The active individuals resembled the common sun-animalcule. 

 The bod}^ was usually spherical or oval, but variable from con- 

 traction, colorless, granular and vesicular, with a large central 

 nucleus more or less obscurely visible and variably granular, with 

 three or four or more peripheral contractile vesicles. The body 

 had a thick envelope of delicate ])rotoplasm, with innumerable 

 and immeasurably fine, straiglit spicules. The envelope with the 

 spicules extended in numerous conical rays, from which prc- 

 ceeded numerous immeasurably fine granular rays. The encysted 

 individuals presented the same essential constitution, except that 

 the body was regularly spherical, enclosed by a structureless 

 envelope or membrane, contained no contractile vesicles, and the 

 enveloping protoplasm was devoid of granular rays. The body 

 of the active individuals measured from 0-024 to O'O-SG mm. in 

 diameter; in the encj'sted individuals, usually about 0'02 mm. 

 An active individual, with the body 0-033 mm. in diameter, wath 

 its envelope was 0*055 mm. in diameter. An encysted individual, 

 with the body 0-02, with its envelope was 0-036 mm. 



The active individuals were observed to feed on two species of 




96 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



minute monads, which were swallowed in the same manner as 

 in Actinophrys. After some hours, a few individuals appear to 

 ha\'fe separated from the surface of one of the groups, but they 

 were as stationary and sluggish as when in association with others. 

 The species is apparently distinct from others which have been 

 previously' noticed, and may be named Eaphidiophrys socialis. 



Daniel E. Hughes, M. D., and Edwin S. Balch were elected 

 members. 



May 1. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Tliirty persons present. 



May 8. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



Canadian Notes. — Mr. Jos. Willcox remarked that a noticeable 

 feature in the Canadian landscape is the scarcity of springs of 

 water and running streams. The latter, when they exist, are 

 almost exclusively the outlets of lakes, which are very numerous 

 in that country. The abundance of lakes there is a fortunate 

 occurrence, as they store a large amount of water for use in sup- 

 plying power to mills and drink for live stock during the dr^^ 

 summer and early autumn. By the action of the ancient glaciers 

 a large portion of the soil of Canada has been carried away, the 

 underlying rocks being usually near the surface, and in many 

 cases visible above the ground. It is reasonable to conclude that 

 the absence of springs of water is due to the prevailing scarcity 

 of deep soil, the material necessary to soak up a large amount of 

 rain and melting snow, from which springs are supplied, being 

 deficient. His observations were confined to the country which 

 lies north of Kingston and Brockville, in the Province of Ontario. 

 In Jefferson and St. Lawrence Counties, in New York, small 

 isolated areas of Potsdam sandstone occur, overlying the 

 Laurentian granite and limestone. Sometimes they cover a space 

 of only a few square yards. Xorth of the St. Lawrence River, for 

 a distance of more than one hundred miles, the Laurentian rocks 

 are frequently covered with disconnected patches of calciferous 

 sandstone and Trenton limestone. These remnants undoubtedly 

 indicate the former existence of those rocks of great extent, 

 overlying the Laurentian granite and limestone, the former having 

 been suljsequentl}^ removed by erosion. The ancient glaciers 

 have probabl}' performed a large share of this work, as their 

 erosive action, which has torn and worn away the granite rocks 

 to a considerable extent, would operate more rapidly on the softer 

 limestones and sandstones. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



ON THE CHARACTERS OF THE SKULL IN THE HADROSAURID^. 

 BY E. D. COPE, 



In tbej'ear 1841, Professor Oweii^ distinguished the Dinosaiiria 

 from other reptiles, as an order characterized by the structure of 

 the sacrum, the limbs, and the articulations of the ribs with the 

 vertebrae. The definition of the order remained witiiout acces- 

 sion, until, in 18T0, Prof, Huxley- determined the characters of 

 the pelvis. This important addition to our knowledge placed the 

 order on a firmer basis. No definitions were yet derived by 

 either author from the skull, so that the relationships of the 

 Dinosauria still remained obscure. In 18(U Professor Owen de- 

 scribed part of the skull of a species of Scelidosaurus from the 

 English Lias. On this imperfect basis I ventured in 1870^ to 

 determine whether the Dinosaiiria are monimostylicate or 

 streptostylicate ; and I added to the definition of tne order, 

 " attached quadrate ; " and later* " os-quadratum articulated with 

 its suspensorium b}' suture," thus placing these reptiles in the 

 monimostylicate series. This character, if found to be general 

 in the order, would distinguish it well from the Lacerlilia, and 

 give a point of affinity to the Crocodilia. 



This order embraces a number of families. I at one time pro- 

 posed to refer them to three suborders,^ and Huxley concluded 

 that they should be arranged in two suborders.^ Professor Marsh, 

 after showing that one of my three orders (Syrnphypoda) was 

 established on characters erroneously ascribed to its type bj^ 

 previous writers, proposed to divide the Dinosaiiria into seven 

 suborders. He later" regarded the Dinosauria as a subclass, and 

 divided it into five orders, the fourth of which is composed of 

 three suborders. The characters used by Marsh to define this 

 supposed subclass, do not differ from those previously developed 

 as above cited, excepting that a number are introduced which 



1 British Fossil Reptiles. 



^ Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, p, 33. 



' American Naturalist, 1871, p. 508, 



* Proceedings Amer, Assoc. Adv. Science, 1870 (1871), p. 233. 



» Transactions American Philosophical Society, 3fiv, 1869, 90-99, 



^ Quarterly Jour, Geolog. Soc, London, 1870, 



' Amer, Jour. Sci. Arts, 1882, p. 83. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



cannot be used to distinguish a subclass, or in some instances an 

 order. In like manner, the definitions of his orders and suborders 

 embrace many characters which are not usually regarded as 

 defining groups higher than families. Such, e. g., are the numbers 

 of toes ; relative sizes of fore- and hind-limbs ; solidity or non- 

 solidity of bones ; presence or absence of dermal armor. Much 

 light was, however, thrown on the subject by Professor Marsh, b}' 

 the numerous characters he brought to light, and the number of 

 forms he defined. 



The constitution of the pelvis is shown by Marsh to differ 

 materially in the different members of the Dinosauria. As this 

 region presents characters diagnostic of the order Dinosauria 

 itself, its modifications within the t>rder become of importance. 

 The ungulate or unguiculate character of the feet must also not 

 be neglected, although of less importance than in the mammalia. 

 If the order is susceptible of division into suborders, it must be 

 by means of the following definitions, which T select from Marsh's 

 diagnoses : 

 Feet ungulate ; pubes projecting and connected in front ; no 



postpubes ; Opisthoccela . 



Feet ungulate ; pubes projecting free in front ; postpubes present ; 



Orthopoda. 

 Feet unguiculate ; pubes projecting downwards and coossified dis- 



tall}- ; calcaneum not produced ; Goniopoda. 



Feet unguiculate; calcaneum much produced backwards ;.? pelvis; 



Hallopoda. 



I have used for these orders the oldest names when the defini- 

 tions first given were not erroneous, although they were inadequate. 

 Thus I think the name Opisthoco'la (Owen') must take precedence 

 of Saiiropoda Marsh. I combine Marsh's two divisions, Stego- 

 sauria and Ornithopoda, into one, and use the name I gave in 

 1866 and redefined in 1869,^ for the division thus remodeled. 

 The name Goniopyoda^ given at the same time, I designed to 

 embrace the carnivorous Dinosauria, but included in my defini- 

 tion some characters which are of less significance than I then 

 attached to them. 



Prof. Huxley recognized three families : the Scelidosauridae and 



1 PalaBontology, 1860, p. 272. 



^ Transactions American Philos. Soc, xiv, p. 90. See American Naturalist, 

 1882, March. 






CQ 



u-> 



ED 



o 



s 





Q I 

 -a: 



o 

 o 



a: 





PROC. OF ACAD. OF NAT. SCI. 1883. 



\ 



--/' / 



ilvr 



PL V. 



DICLONIUS MIRABILIS j 





PROC. OF ACAD. OF NAT. SCI. 1883. 



PL VI. 



/m. 



) 



1 ■■ 



/ 



w 



rf% r^i f- 





DICLONIUS MIRABILIS I 





PROC. OF ACAD. OF NAT. SCI, 1883. 



PL. VII. 



DICLONIUS MIRABILIS j. 





1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 99 



Iguanodontidae, which belong to the Orthopoda, and the 3Iegalo- 

 sauridae, which pertains to the Goniopoda. To the former, I 

 added the famil^^ Hadrosaiiridae in 1869, and in 187T T defined 

 the Caniarasauridee, of the suborder Opidhocoela? To this family 

 Marsh gave, in 1882, the name of Atlantosauridse.^ At the same 

 time he proposed a number of families, some of which will be 

 retained, while others are not sufficiently defined. 



The Hadrosauridse are, so far as known, confined to the upper 

 cretaceous beds of North America, and continued, with their 

 accompanjing carnivorous genera, later in geological time than 

 any other Dinosauria. Besides the genus Hadrosaurus, I have 

 added the genera Diclonius and Cionodon, and it is possible that 

 the genera Monoclonius, Dysganus and Agathaumas also belong 

 to it. These types are all found in the Laramie formation, 

 excepting Hadrosaurus, which is as yet only known from the 

 older Fox Hills or Maestrichtian, and Pierre epochs. From the 

 latter formations, came also Hypsibenia, possibly a member of the 

 same family. 



As the latest in time, the Dinosauria of the Laramie possess an 

 especial interest. Having recently obtained a specimen of a species 

 of the genus Diclonius Cope, I am in a position to give not only the 

 characters of the famih- and suborder more definitely than here- 

 tofore, but also to furnish some cranial characters of the order, 

 which have been hitherto little known or imknown. The species 

 on which these observations are made is the Diclonius mirabilis,^ 

 of Leid}". It is represented by a nearly complete skeleton, in- 

 cluding the skull, which was discovered by Messrs. Wortman and 

 Hill in the Laramie beds of Dakota. At present, I onl}- describe 

 the general characters, and those chiefly cranial, leaving the com- 

 plete description and iconography for my forthcoming volume on 

 the Laramie vertebrate fauna. 



The character which distinguishes this genus from Hadrosaurus 

 is the attenuation of the astragalocalcaneum, and its coossification 

 with the tibia. Ornithotarsus differs from Diclonius in the pro- 



' Proceedings American Philosoplaical Soc, 1877, p. 243. 



'' Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 1882, p. 83. 



^ This species is part of the one called by Leidy Trachodon mirabilis, 

 who included in it a species oi Dysganus. He did not characterize the 

 genus Trachodon, and afterwards abandoned it. (Proceedings Academy, 

 Phila., 1868, p. 199.) 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



duced calcaneum, which supports the extremity of the iibula. 

 There are four digits of the anterior foot, and three of the pos- 

 terior. The fore-limb is much shorter than the liind-limb, so that 

 the attitude of tlie animal was kangaroo-like, as in Hadrosaurus 

 and Laelaps. In this it differed from Monoclonius ,^ where the 

 anterior limbs are as long as the posterior. 



Ordinal Characters. — The quadrate bone is immovably articu- 

 lated to the skull by three elements ; the parietal, the quadrato- 

 jugal, and the jugal. The intercalare occupies a position on the 

 external edge of the exoccipital, and nearly approaches the 

 proximal end of the quadrate at its posterior side. The post- 

 frontals and prefontals are well developed, and the parietals, 

 frontals, nasals and premaxillaries form the middle line of the 

 skull above, as in other reptiles. The elements of the lower jaw 

 belonging tp reptiles are all present. 



Subordinal and Family Characters. — The ^x-fWe^aZ is, as to its 

 superior face, a T-shaped bone, of which the transverse portion 

 rests on the supraoccipital bone, without interspace. The external 

 extremities of the transverse branches are excavated below to 

 receive the i)roximal end of the quadrate. These extensions of 

 the parietal are stout, and represent the parietosquamosal arch 

 of the Lacertilia. Resting as thej^ do on the occipital, they present 

 a character exactlj' intermediate between those presented b}' the 

 Crocodilia and Lacertilia. 



The zygoviatic arch is complete, having the usual flexure observed 

 in reptiles, and branching to a postorbital arch by the interven- 

 tion of a postorbital bone. The postorbital part of the zygomatic 

 arch forms the external border of the superior aspect of ilie skull, 

 and encloses a crotaphite foramen. The portions of the frontal 

 and parietal bones which separate the crotaphite foi'amina, form 

 a narrow isthmus. The postorbital part of the z3goma consists 

 chiefly of the squamosal. This element is rod-like, and does not 

 reach or take part in the articulation with the quadrate. In this 

 respect this genus differs materiallv from Scelidosaurus, where, 

 according to Owen, the squamosal is more extended posteriorly, 

 and articulates with the superior part of the quadrate bj' a fixed 

 articulation. The external portions of the parietal are thus, in 

 Scelidosaurus, correspond ingl3' reduced. 



The malar or jugal bone is of large size, while the quadrato- 



' Proceedings Phila. Academy, 1876, October. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



jugal is rather small. Its articulation with the quadrate is 

 squamosal. The maxillary is convex on its outer face, presenting 

 the teeth inwards. The nasals are distinct, and much narrowed 

 forwards to their junction with the spines of the premaxillaries. 

 The latter bones are distinct. They form, when viewed from 

 above, an anchor-shaped bodv, with the curved flanges extending 

 outwards and backwards. These enclose, with the anterior apex 

 of the maxillaries, the huge external nareal orifices, which were 

 probably roofed over b}' membrane, as in the birds. 



The pterygoids extend well posteriorly as broad plates, and are 

 in close contact with the inferior part of the quadrates. They are 

 separated for a short distance on the middle line posteriorly b}- a 

 fissure, which, with the narrow space between the pterygoids and 

 the presphenoids, gives exit to the transversely narrowed posterior 

 nares. The occipital condyle looks downwards. The sphenoid is 

 posteriorly horizontal, and overlaps the basioccipital with only a 

 trace of lateral tuberosities ; but in front it is curved abruptly 

 downwards. At this point, an elongate, flattened, truncate process 

 extends posteriorly, forming the median part of the roof of the 

 fissure of the posterior nares. In front of this fissure the ptery- 

 goids are in contact, and extend a considerable distance ante- 

 riorly ; at least to opposite to the border of the large anterior 

 palatomaxillary foramen. 



The maxillary bone is pi'oduced far posteriori}', so as to define 

 the z^'gomatic foramen on the inner side. The palatine bone 

 extends posteriorly between it and the pterygoid for a considerable 

 distance, when the expanding pterygoid cuts it off, and extends 

 to the posterior extremity of the maxillary, closing the space 

 occupied in the Lacertilia hy the posterior palatomaxillary foramen. 

 I cannot distinguish whether the portion which extends to the 

 maxillary bone is distinguished as an ectopter\'goid. The posterior 

 edge of this part of the pterygoid projects below the posterior part 

 of the bone, which is nearly horizontal until it reaches the quad- 

 rate. It then ascends, forming a lamina on the inner side of that 

 bone, reaching the process from the inner side of the condyle. 



The vomer is a narrowed, horizontal lamina between the anterior 

 parts of the maxillary bones, anterior to which point it does not 

 appear to extend. It soon becomes a vertical lamina, spreading 

 at the base, where it is in contact with the middle line of contact 

 of the pterygoid bones (and perhaps of the palatines, but these 




102 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



are not visible at that point). From this point it is a deep atten- 

 uated keel, dividing the palate into two deep channels, and 

 extends as far posteriorl3'^ as the nares. The posterior part is 

 free beyond its base. The entire vomer is like that seen in various 

 natatorial birds. The anterior raaxillopalatine foramen separates 

 the vomer from the maxillaries anteriorly. Posteriorly, the fora- 

 men is bounded b}- an ascending process of the maxillary bone, 

 which is in contact with the palatines posteriorly. 



The premaxillary is divided its whole length. At the middle 

 line above, it passes between the nasal lamintie, while below it 

 forms the roof of the muzzle part of the mouth, and the floor 

 of the huge nareal fossa on each side of its spine. This part 

 extends posteriorly as a thin lamina, each meeting that of the 

 opposite side on the middle line, and recurving upwards, forming 

 a median superior crest. The horizontal portion extends above 

 the maxillary bone, betw'een it and the descending postnareal part 

 of the nasal, and extends over the anterior part of the lachrymal, 

 intervening between the anterior extremit}^ of the malar, and the 

 posterior extremity of the nasal. Its posteiior portion develops 

 a rib-like projection, which descends downwards and forwards 

 towards the anterior part of the maxillary bone, and disappears. 

 This bone perhaps includes the maxilloturhiyial. 



The preorbital region includes a not unusual arrangement of the 

 elements. The prefrontal bone descends as far as the middle of 

 the anterior border of the orbit, and to the lachrymal. The 

 orbital edge of the latter is interrupted by an element which pre- 

 sents a vertical edge outwards, and appears to be distinct from 

 it, extending under it anteriorly, and separated from it by a ver- 

 tical groove externally. It is, perhaps, the superciliary bone 

 of Cuvier, which occupies a somewhat similar position in the 

 Varanidse. ' Below the lachrymal a small part of the orbit is 

 bounded in front by the jugal. The latter sends forward a laminar 

 prolongation over the maxillar^'^, separating it externally from the 

 posterior extension of the maxilloturbinal. 



The mandibular ramus includes all the elements of the reptilian 

 jaw. The arrangement posteriori}- is a mixture of that of the 

 crocodile and that of the lizard, while the remaining portion is 

 peculiar. The angle is formed by about equal parts of the articular 

 and angular, the former furnishing the external half, the latter the 

 internal. There are a huge dental fossa and foramen, as in the 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Lacertilia^ and no perforations either external or internal, in agree- 

 ment M'ith the same type. The coronoid process is very large and 

 elevated, and its base, which is crescentic in section, is embraced 

 b}' the surangular, and is reached posteriorly by the anterior pro- 

 longation of the articular. lis posterior face is concave, and its 

 apex is curved anteriorl}-, reaching the superior edge of the jugal 

 bone at the inferior border of the orbit. The angular bone forms 

 the internal border of the dental fossa, and extends to the 

 posterior edge of the splenial above. Below, it sends a prolonga- 

 tion forwards. The greater part of the external and inferior faces 

 of the ramus are formed by the sui'angular bone, which has an 

 enormous extent, far exceeding in size that of any known reptile. 

 It extends posteriorly to below the quadrate cot3'lus. Anteriorly 

 it spreads lateralh', and unites with its fellow of the opposite side, 

 forming a short s^-mphysis, and simulating a dentary. At the 

 base of the internal side of the ramus, it is separated from the 

 anterior prolongation of the angular hy an open Meckelian groove, 

 which shallows out near the middle of its length. In correspond- 

 ence with this extent of the surangular, the splenial is enormously 

 developed, and contains the great magazine of teeth which I have 

 described as characteristic of this type.^ Its internal wall is very 

 thin, and adheres closely to the faces of the teeth, in the fossil, in 

 its present condition. This development and dentition of the 

 splenial bone distinguishes the Hadrosauridse widely from the 

 Iguanodontidae. The dentary bofte is a flat semicircular plate 

 attached by suture to the extremities of the surangulars. There 

 is no trace of symphj-sial suture, and the posterior border sends a 

 median prolongation backwards, which is embraced by the suran- 

 gulars. The edge of the dentary is flat, thin, and edentulous, and 

 closes within the edge of the premaxillarv. 



The dentition is remarkable for its complexity-, and for the dif- 

 ference in character presented by the superior and inferior series. 

 Leidy pointed out the character of the latter- in the Hadroaaiirus 

 foulkei^ and I have described the character of the superior denti- 

 tion in the genera Cionodon^ and Biclonius.* The teeth of both 



' Bulletin U. S. Geol. Survey Territories, F. V. Hayden ; ill, p. 594-7. 

 May, 1877. 

 ■^ Cretaceous Reptiles North America, 1864, p. 83. 

 ^ Vertebrata of Cretaceous formations of the West, 1875, p. 59. 

 * Proceediugs Philadelphia Academy, 1876, p. 250. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



series succeed each other in columns of from five to eight teeth 

 each, following an arc of a circle. The superior arc is convex 

 externally ; the inferior arc is convex internally, or towards the 

 position of the tongue. It results that the opposed grinding sur- 

 faces of the two dental series are vertical. The cementum-plate of 

 the tooth is, in both sets, on the convex side of the tooth, hence 

 external and inferior in the superior teeth, and internal and supe- 

 rior in the inferior teeth. The teeth replace each other differently 

 in the two jaws, or rather the replacement of the teeth does not 

 partake of the general reversal of relations which the opposite series 

 present in all other respects. The successional teeth rise in both 

 jaws on the inner sides of the older teeth. From this it follows, 

 that in the superior series the replacement is on the non-functional 

 side of the tooth, or from the side which does not bear the cementum- 

 plate. In the lower jaw, the successional teeth follow on the side 

 that bears the cementum-plate, so that one tooth must be worn 

 away before the apex of its successor can come into use. The 

 arrangement of the superior series permits the successional to 

 overlap the functional tooth far beyond the base of the enamel- 

 plate, which in point of fact they do in the Diclonius mirabilis, 

 though not to the same extent as in the Cionodon arctatus. The 

 superior teeth are smaller and narrower in form than the inferipr, 

 and both have a keel on the median line of their cementum-face. 

 There are no teeth on the anterior parts of the surangular bone 

 nor on the dentary or premaxiHaiy bones. The extremity of the 

 muzzle is a flattened spatulate beak. 



Dermal or corneous structures have left distinct traces in the 

 soft matrix about the end of the beak-like muzzle. Laminae of 

 brown remnants of organic structures were exposed in removing 

 the matrix. One of these extends as a broad vertical band round 

 the sides, indicating a vertical rim to the lower jaw, like that 

 which surrounds some tea trays, and which probably represents the 

 tomia of the horn}' sheath of a bird's beak. At the front of the 

 muzzle its face is sharply undulate, presenting the appearance of 

 vertical columns with tooth-like apices. Corresponding tooth- 

 like processes, of much smaller size, alternate with them from 

 the upper jaw. These probably are the remains of a serration of 

 the extremital part of the horn}' tomia, such as exist on the lateral 

 portions in the lamellirostral birds. 



Systematic liesuUs. — The structure of the skull of this species 

 adds some confirmation to the hypothesis of the avian affinities 




1883.] NATURAL SCIEiNCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 105 



of the Dinosauria, which I first announced, as indicated by the hind- 

 limbs, and which Professor Huxley soon after observed in the char- 

 acters of the limbs and pelvis. The confirmation is, however, 

 empirical rather than essential, and is confined to a few points. 

 One of these is the form and position of the vomer, which much 

 reseirbles that seen in lamellirostral birds. The large development 

 of the premaxillary bone has a similar significance. So has the 

 toothless character of that bone and the dentary. 



Among reptiles, this skull combines, in an interesting way, the 

 characters of the two orders Grocodilia and Lacertilia. The 

 presence of the ethmoid above the maxillary and overlapping the 

 lachrymal, is unique among vertebrata, so far as I am aware. The 

 free exoccipito-intercalare hook is scarcely less remarkable. 



Of mammalian afflnit}' there is no trace to be found. 



Specific Characters. — The general form and appearance of tlie 

 skull, as seen in profile, is a good deal like that of a goose. From 

 above it has more the form of a rather short-billed spoonbill 

 (Flatalea . For a reptile, the head is unusually elevated poste- 

 riori}', and remarkably contracted at the anterior part of the 

 maxillaries. The flat, transverse expansion of the premaxillaries 

 is absolutely unique. The posterior edges of the occipital bones 

 are produced far backwards, forming a thin roof over the anterior 

 part of the vertebral column. This roof is supported by two 

 strong buttresses, one from each side of the foramen magnum. 

 The latter is a vertical oval. The exoccipital (carrying the inter- 

 calare) descends on each side, forming a free hook-like process 

 behind the superior half of the quadrate. The recurved process 

 of the lateral branches of the parietal underruns the squamosal 

 two-thirds the length of the latter. The quadrate is separated 

 by a rather narrow, obliquely vertical fossa, from the postorbital 

 arch, owing to the posterior position of the latter. 



The orbit is posterior in position, and is a horizontal oblong in 

 form. The superior (superciliary) border is flat, with slight 

 rugosities at the positions of the pre- and postfrontal sutures. 

 The frontal region is a little concave, and there is a convexity of 

 the superior face of the prefrontal bone in front of the line of the 

 orbit. The peculiar position of the teeth gives the side of the 

 face, when the mandible is closed, a horizontally extended con- 

 cavity. There are four and a half tooth-like colums on each side 

 of the middle line of the end of the muzzle. 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



The extremital teeth of both series are smaller than the great 

 majority, which are of equal size and similar form. Those of the 

 superior series are rod-like, narrowed at the extremities, and flat- 

 tened on one side. The edges of the cementum-plate are not 

 serrate, and the other faces of the tooth are finely rugose with 

 cementum-granules. In the inferior series, the cementum-faces 

 are diamond-shaped, and the tooth may thus be distinguished into 

 crown and root. The concealed surfaces are finely rugose ; the 

 edges of the cementum-plate are not serrate, and its surface is 

 smooth. As compared with the Hadrosaurus foulkei^ the dental 

 magazine is much deeper, and contains a greater number of teeth 

 in a vertical column, and probably a larger number in the aggre- 

 gate. I find in each maxillary bone of the Diclonius mirahilis 

 six hundred and thirty teeth, and in each splenial bone four hun- 

 dred and six teeth. The totaJ number is then two thousand and 

 seventy-two. 



According to Mr. Wortman, who, with Mr. Hill, dug the skeleton 

 out, its total length is thirty-eight feet. The length of the skull 

 is 1-180 meters. 



Bestoratio?!. — This animal in life presented the kangaroo-like 

 proportions ascribed by Leidy to the Hadrosaurus foulkei. The 

 anterior limbs are small, and were doubtless used occasionally'^ for 

 support, and rarelj- for prehension. This is to be supposed from 

 the fact that the ungual phalanges of the manus are hoof-like, 

 and not claw-like, though less ungulate in their character 

 than those of the posterior foot. The inferior presentation of the 

 occipital condyle shows that the head was borne on the summit of 

 a vertical neck, and at right-angles to it, in the manner of a bird. 

 The head would be poised at right-angles to the neck when the 

 animal rested on the anterior feet, by the aid of a U-like flexure of 

 the cervical vertebrae. The general appearance of the head must 

 have been much like that of a bird. 



The nature of the beak and the dentition indicate, for this 

 strange animal, a diet of soft vegetable matter. It could not have 

 eaten the branches of trees, since any pressure suflBcient for their 

 comminution would have probably broken the slightlj'^ attached 

 teeth of the lower jaw from their places, and have scattered 

 them on the floor of the mouth. It is dilfieult to understand also 

 how such a weak spatulate beak, could have collected or have 

 broken off boughs of trees. By the aid of its dentate horny edge 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 107 



it may have scraped leaves from the ends of branches, but the 

 appearances indicate softer and less tenacious food. Could we 

 suppose that the waters of the great Laramie lakes had supplied 

 abundant aquatic plants without woody tissue, we would have the 

 condition appropriate to this curious structure. Xymphseas, 

 Nuphars. Potamogetons, Anacharis, Myriophyllum and similar 

 growths could have been easil}' gathered by this double-spoon- 

 like bill, and have been tossed, bv bird-like jerks of the head 

 and neck, back to the mill of small and delicate teeth. In 

 order to submit the food to the action of these vertical shears, the 

 jaws must have been opened widelj' enough to permit their edges 

 to clear each other, and a good deal of wide gaping must, there- 

 fore, have accompanied the act of mastication. This would be 

 easy, as the mouth opens, as in reptiles and birds generallv, to a 

 point behind the line of the position of the eye. The eye was 

 evidentl}- of large size. On the other hand the indications are 

 that the external ear was of very small size. There is a large 

 tract that might have been devoted to the sense of smell, but 

 whether it was so or not is not easily ascertained. 



We can suppose that the huge hind-legs of this genus and of 

 Eadrosaurus were especially useful in wading in the water that 

 produced their food. When the bottom was not too soft, they 

 could wade to a depth of ten or more feet, and, if necessary, 

 drag aquatic plants from their hold below. Fishes might have 

 been available as food when not too large, and not covered with 

 bony scales. Most of the fishes of the Laramie period, are, how- 

 ever, of the latter kind (genus Clasfes). The occurrence of several 

 beds of lignite in the foi'mation shows that vegetation was 

 abundant. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



(All the figures are one-seventh of the natural size.) 



Plate TV. Side view of skull of Didonius mirabilis. 

 Plate V. The same viewed from above. 

 Plate VI. Inferior view of the same. 



Plate VII. Fig. 1, View of occipital region of the same. Fig. 2, View of 

 the extremity of the muzzle from the front. 



The complete iconography of this species will appear in the third volume 

 of the Report of the United States Geological Survey of the Territories, 

 under F. V. Hayden and J. W. Powell, now in course of preparation. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



ON SOME VEBTEBBATA FROM THE PERMIAN OF ILLINOIS. 

 BY E. D. COPE.. 



The first notice of the existence of the Permian formation in 

 Illinois was published in these Proceedings for 1876, p. 404, et 

 seq. I then described the genera Cricotus and Clepsydrops, and 

 a species of fish allied to Ctenodus. In the Proceedings of the 

 American Philosophical Societ}^ for 1817 (commencing at p. 52), 

 I added descriptions of other species, and in a second paper in 

 the same volume, p. 182, 1 showed that the entire number known to 

 that date was seventeen. Since then Mr. William Gurley, of 

 Dansville, 111., has sent me some additional specimens, which 

 increase our knowledge of this interesting fauna. 



A tooth in the collection is an incisor of a species of the Diadeo- 

 tidae, a family not hitherto recognized in Illinois, although I have 

 recorded it from Texas and New Mexico. It is more slender than 

 the corresponding teeth of any of the species known to me. I do 

 not know the incisors of the Chilonyx rapidens. I note here that 

 the genus Phanerosaurus von Meyer, from the Permian of German}', 

 probably belongs to the Diadectidae or the Bolosauridae. The 

 vertebrae are a good deal like those of Empedias^^ but apparently 

 lack the hyposphen. 



Didymodus (?) compressua Newberry. Diplodns (?) compresmts Newb. Cope, Pro- 

 ceeds. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1877, 53. 



The name Diplodus was used by Rafinesque for a valid genus 

 of fishes before it was employed by Agassiz for the present genus. 

 I therefore propose to substitute for it the name Didymodus. 

 Thoracodus emydinus gen. et ?p. nov. 



Char. gen. — The form of the tooth or jaw on which this genus 

 is proposed, reminds one of that of a Diodon, and also of one-half of 

 that of a Janassa. It appears to be the half of a bilateral plate, which 

 is divided on the middle line by suture. Its form is somewhat 

 that of the anterior part of an epistenial bone of a tortoise. It 

 consists essentially of a smooth border, separated from the 

 remainder of the tooth by a transverse groove. The interior 



^ Mittheilungen a. d. Koeniglich. Mineral., Geolog. u. praehistor.- 

 Museum, Dresden ; V, Nachtrage zur Dyas ; Geinitz und Deichmiiller, 

 1883, p. 10. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



portion is, on tlie superior face (if the piece belong to the inferior 

 jaw, and vice versa) , tTa.ns\ ersely ridged and grooved, after the 

 manner of the genus Janassa. 



Char, specif. — The snaooth border is wide above and below. 

 Its edge is produced into a median projection, which is'decurved. 

 On the inferior surface it is marked b}" shallow grooves, which 

 radiate from the groove which bounds it posteriorly, extending 

 nearly to the free edge. Posterior to the bounding groove, the 

 surface is smooth. The posterior surface above has its grooves 

 concentric with the curved free margin. The ridges are narrow, 

 and step-like in position, presenting their free edges backwards. 

 There are no grooves other than these steps. They have an 

 angular curve opposite to the angle of the free margin, and at 

 the angle the groove which separates them is narrowed, while it 

 widens at other points. Free edge of border thickened ; surface 

 everywhere smooth. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of fragment transversely, . . . "OH' 



Length of fragment anteroposteriorly, 

 Width of border area at median suture, 

 Seven cross ridges, .... 

 Thickness at suture at cross-ridges, 



•Oil 

 •005 

 •005 



•002 



Ctenodus heterolophus pp. nov. 



This species is represented by a single broken tooth, which 

 presents remarkable characters. It had apparently, when perfect, 

 but three crests, which differ greatly in length, diminishing very 

 rapidly from the first or marginal crest. 



The crest just mentioned is not onl}^ longer, but much more 

 elevated than the others, except at the base, where the second 

 crest is the highest. But while the first rapidly rises, the second 

 retains its elevation, and then descends, forming a convex edge, 

 of which the distal part is obtusely serrate. The proximal part 

 of the first crest is worn by friction with the opposing edge of 

 the opposite jaw into a sharp edge, below which its base is 

 covered hy a thin laj'er of the shining cementum which invests 

 the teeth and sides of the second crest. The amount of this 

 shining layer is thus more extensive than in any other species of 

 Ctenodus known to me. The third crest, judging by its base of 

 continuity with the second, is very small. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Measurements. M, 



Elevation of first crest at middle, . . '0095 



Elevation of second crest at middle, . . "0065 



Lengtli of a tooth of second crest, . . '0020 



The peculiarities of this tooth suggest that the genus Gnathor- 

 hiza Cope (Proceedings Amer. Philos. Soc, 1882, p. 629) is 

 Dipnoan, and allied to Gtenodus. 

 Ctenodus vabasensis sp. nor. 



This fine species is represented by an almost perfect tooth. 

 It is allied to the C. fossatus Cope, but is wider, and the crests 

 do not radiate so equalh, but are chiefly directed in one direction 

 as in most species of the genus. The C. gurleianus and G. 

 pusillus are at once distinguished by the small number of crests, 

 while the G. periprion and G. dialophus have a larger number of 

 crests, and are otherwise diflTerent. G. porrectus differs less from 

 it, but has only five ^ crests, while the G. vabasensis has six |. 

 The 4- represents the small posterior (?) crest, which is double. 

 This, with the next one, is directed slightly posteriorly; the 

 fifth is at right-angles to the long axis, and the anterior four 

 extend more or less forwards. They are serrate nearly to their 

 bases, but the teeth are obsolete on their basal halves. The 

 straight part of the internal edge extends as far forwards as the 

 fourth crest, and is continued posteriorly as a short process. No 

 fossae at ends of crests. Superior face of tooth wide, and slightly 

 concave. The anterior parts of the first and second crests are 

 broken away, so that it is impossible to say whether they are 

 produced as in G. porrectus. 



Measurements. m. 



Length to marginal base of second crest, . . '024 



Width at mai'ginal base of second crest, . . "009 



Width at fourth crest, inclusive of apex, . . "015 



Width of posterior side, '010 



Thickness at base of fifth crest, .... '005 




1883] natural sciences of philadelphia. ill 



May 15. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the eliair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The following were presented for publication : — 

 " Pinus Koraiensis," by Josiah Hoopes. 



" On the Fishes of the Lakes of the Western Part of the Great 

 Basin," by Edw. D. Cope. 



Observations on Forsyfhia. — Mr. Thomas Meehan, at the meeting 

 of the Botanical Section, May 14, referred to his communication 

 to the Academjr (December 29, 1868), in which he suggested that 

 notwithstanding the strong specific differences between Forsythia 

 viridissima and F. suspensa, he believed they must have had a 

 common origin. F. suspensa has short styles and long stamens, 

 broad lobes to the corolla, broadly-ovate, thin, glaucous, sometimes 

 trifoliate, deeply serrate leaves, and makes a shrub of some ten feet 

 high, with numerous slender, pendulous branches. F. viridissima 

 is a stiff, erect bush, but of not half the height, with narrowly 

 lanceolate, thick, bright green, lightly serrate leaves ; flowers with 

 narrow lobes, and the style long and the stamens short. F. suspensa, 

 in cultivation, often produces abortive capsules ; F. viridissima 

 rarely- , if ever. In the paper cited above, an account is given of the 

 production of seed-vessels on F. viridissiyna, hy using the pollen of 

 F. suspensa. Though the seeds were not wholl}^ perfect, a winged 

 seed of one species was produced among the wingless ones of the 

 other. The resultant impression from those observations was that 

 in spite of what would be regarded as good specific differences, 

 they are but dimorphic forms, referable to sexual peculiarities. 



Three years ago, the usually seedless capsules of F. suspensa 

 produced a number of good seeds, which were sown. This season 

 thirty-four flowered. The leaves and general habit of these 

 plants present ever}' shade of gradation between F. suspensa and 

 F. viridissima; some of the leaves of the latter being even much 

 more slender than those of the original species. The flowers also 

 present in the larger number of cases the slender lobes of the 

 F. viridissima; some with the lobes recurved laterally to such 

 an extent as to seem much narrower than thej^ are. 



The most interesting fact in connection with this is the sexual 

 characteristics. Of the thirty-four plants, raised from a parent 

 having a short style and long stamens, only four have retained'' 

 this parental character, but have assumed that belonging to the 

 form viridissima. 



Some interesting questions are suggested by these observations : 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



The fact that F. suspensa makes abortive capsules freel^y, and 

 F. viridissima rarely, though it has the best developed pistil, 

 indicates that fertility is dependent on the potency of the pollen ; 

 and this is confirmed hy the production of capsules on F. viridissima 

 when the pollen of F. suspensa was applied : 



The fact that the speaker has had both forms growing on bis 

 grounds for many j^ears, without any seed-vessel appearing on 

 F. viridissima, except in the case cited, shows that it is not likely 

 to be cross-fertilized through insect agency. 



In the fully fertile case of F. suspensa, the plants of F. viridissima 

 were fully four hundred feet away; and the suggestion of inter- 

 crossing between these forms, considered in connection with the 

 points previously made, seems to place hybridization out of the 

 question. 



We may conclude, therefore, that these two supposed species are 

 but sexuall}' dimorphic forms of one ; and we have also the curious 

 fact that, in this case, notwithstanding the presumable influence of 

 the law of heredit3-,the strongly masculine tendenc}- of the parent, 

 as indicated by the highly developed stamens, the potency of its 

 pollen on the F viridissima. the power to almost perfect seeds in 

 partially developed seed-vessels generally', and the actual perfection 

 in one year, notwithstanding the imperfectly developed pistil, 

 should have had to give way to the female tendency in the offspring 

 to such a great degree as to leave only four out of thirty-four to 

 represent the parent. 



Influence of Circumstances on Heredity. — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 referred to the fact that seed of the purple-leaved variety of Ber- 

 beris vulgaris, collected from plants growing near Philadelphia, 

 reproduced the purple-leaved peculiarity to an extent which it 

 could not do more perfectly if the variety were a true species. 

 In a bed of seedlings, containing on an estimate one thousand 

 plants, there were only two reversions to the original green-leaved 

 condition. Two years ago, he had been given, by Prof. C. S. 

 Sargent, some seeds of ligneous plants, sent to him from some 

 European Botanical Garden, and of thirty seedlings planted only 

 two are dark purple as in the parent. 



May 22. 

 Rev. Dr. H. C. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Revision of the Species of Gerres found 

 in American Waters," by B. W. Evermann and Seth E. Meek, was 

 presented for publication. 




1883.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 113 



May 29. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



N. A. Randolph, M. D., J. Reed Conrad, M. D., and Spencer 

 Trotter, M. D., were elected members. 



Arnould Locard, of L3^ons, Fred. W. Hutton, of Christchurch, 

 N". Z., and C. E. Beddome, of Hobart Town, Tasmania, were elected 

 correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



PINUS KOEAIENSIS Sieb. & Zucc. 

 BY JOSIAH HOOPES. 



Through the kindness of Chief Eng.G. W. Melville, U. S. N., 

 I have enjoyed an opportunity of studying some excellent speci- 

 mens of this interesting species of pine, collected by him during 

 the late voyage of the unfortunate " Jeannette " to the Arctic 

 regions. These specimens consist of a branch clothed with foliage, 

 two immature cones, and a few mature seeds, and were collected 

 in the District of Tuknansk, in Eastern Siberia. It was seen 

 along the banks of the Lena, Yenisei and Obi Rivers, forming a 

 tree about thirty feet in height, with a trunk about ten inches in 

 diameter at base. The collector further states that it fruits 

 abundantly, and " the edible seeds are used by the natives as 

 food, and by travelers as nuts." It is interesting to note that 

 this heretofore comparativel}' rare species has a wider habitat, 

 and is more numerous than has generally been supposed, although 

 reported as having been found up to the Amoor River, which 

 takes its rise in the mountain range dividing the Lena from the 

 Amoor ; hence it was reasonable to suppose it was more generally 

 distributed throughout Siberia and adjacent islands. Siebold 

 found it in Kamtschatka ; and various authors have described it 

 in the list of Japanese Coniferae, but only in the latter as an 

 introduced species, where it is said to be quite rare. 



Finns Koraiensis is placed hj Dr. Engelmann, in his recent 

 revision of the genus Pmus, in the subsection Cembrse, of his 

 first section, Strobus. It is distinguishable from the section 

 Eustrobi by reason of the parenchymatous ducts, and with leaves 

 sparingly serrulate, scarcely denticulate at tip. This nut-bearing 

 pine is well marked throughout, and especially so in its cones and 

 seeds, the latter being wingless, subangulate, flatly compressed, 

 leaving on both sides of the scale when removed, remarkably deep 

 impressions. The cones are very distinctive, with long reflexed 

 scales, terminating in an abrupt mucro-like apex. The leaf- 

 characters in the specimens before me coincide with the published 

 description given by Dr. Engelmann^ in relation to the absence 

 (or nearly so) of hj-poderm or strengthening-cells, as well as in 

 other peculiar features of the Cembran group. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Murray, in his " Pines and Firs of Japan," records its height 

 from ten to twelve feet, yet Parlatore, on the authority of Pcrfetti, 

 giA'es it at " sometimes thirty to thirty -three feet." The latter is 

 corroborated by Chief Eng. Melville, thus showing conclusively 

 that it is a true northern species, attaining only its greatest size 

 near the extreme limits of arboreal vegetation ; and yet, like all 

 other species of nut-pines, it never forms a large-sized tree. 



This species will no doubt make a valuable addition to our list 

 of ornamental Conifers, as its hardiness is unquestioned, and the 

 foliage is as attractive as anj- other of the "White Pine group, 

 unless we except the P. excelsa. In England it has proven reliable, 

 and with us the small plants show evidences of success. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



A KEVIEW OF THE SPECIES OF GERRES FOUND IN AMERICAN WATERS. 

 BY B. W. EVERMANN AND SETH E. MEEK. 



Upon attempting to identify various specimens of Gerres from 

 different points on our coast, and from Mexico and Central America, 

 we were led to the thought that the species of this genus have been 

 undul}^ multiplied. 



Through the kindness of Prof D. S. Jordan, to whom we here desire 

 to acknowledge our indebtedness for the use of specimens and his 

 librar}', and for man}' valuable suggestions, we had placed at our 

 disposal his entire collection of specimens of Gerres, thus affording 

 us a considerable amount of material for purposes of comparison. 

 In Jordan and Gilbert's Synopsis of Fishes of North America, 

 six species of Gerres are given as found on the United States 

 Coast ; of these, G. homonymus appears to us to be identical with 

 G. gula C. and V. ; and G. harengulus Goode and Bean, with 

 Eucinoslomus pseudogula of Poe}-, and with Diapterus gracilis 

 described from Cape San Lucas b^^ Dr. Gill. 



In the present paper it is desired to set forth the conclusions 

 reached from a study of the material in hand. These conclusions 

 are all to be considered as provisional, perhaps to be modified by 

 the study of a greater number of specimens. 



The synonymy given, however, appears to be fully justified by 

 the evidence before us. 



We have been kindly permitted to copy the synonymy of the 

 Pacific Coast species from Profs. Jordan and Gilbert's MSS. 



The different species of Gerres noticed in this paper may be 

 readily separated by the following analysis : — 

 a. Preopercle and preorbital entire ; body elongate, depth 2^ to 4 

 in length. 

 b. Premaxillary groove naked. 



c. Anal rays II-8 ; body very elongate, depth less than- one- 

 fourth its length. lefroyi. 1. 

 CO. Anal rays III-7. 



d. Premaxillary groove linear. 



e. Ej-e small, about 3| in head ; depth nearly 3 in 



length. gracilis. 2. 



ee. Eye large, less than 3 in head ; depth about 2| in 



length. dowi. 3. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



dd. Premaxillary groove not linear. 



e. Body slender, depth 3 to 3^ in length, jonesi. 4. 

 ee. Body somewhat elevated, depth about 2^ in length. 

 /. Caudal fin moderate, shorter than head; second 

 anal spine not very strong, shorter than 

 third, 5 to ^ length of head ; ventrals short, 

 little more than half length of head, not 

 reaching vent. Color bright silvery, darker 

 above ; snout and upper edge of caudal 

 peduncle somewhat dusky ; dark punetula- 

 tions on body few or none; no trace of 

 vertical bars ; upper part of spinous dorsal 

 becoming gradually blackish, other fins 

 nearly plain ; axil faintly dusk3\ 



californiensis. 5. 

 ff. Caudal fin about as long as head ; second anal 

 spine very strong, longer than third, one- 

 third or more length of head ; ventrals long, 

 two-thirds length of head, reaching vent. 

 Color in life, clear silvery, bluish above, 

 sides with obsolete longitudinal streaks ; 

 back and sides with 8 or 9 bluish vertical 

 bars, about as broad as the pupil; a dark 

 blotch on upper edge of eye. cinereus. 6. 

 bb. Premaxillary groove scaled in front, forming a naked pit 

 behind ; depth about 2f in length. gula. 7. 



aa. Preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove broad. 

 b. Preorbital entire. 



c. Premaxillar}^ groove naked. 



d. Body ovate, the outline somewhat regularly elliptical, 



depth a little less than half length; spines rather 



slender and short, second dorsal spine half length 



of head, second anal spine less than half length 



of head. aureolus. 8. 



dd. Body rhomboid, short and deep, with angular outlines, 



the depth usually more than half length ; spines 



long and strong. 



e. Anal rays III-8; second dorsal spine three-fourths 



or more length of head ; second anal spine more 



than half length of head. peruvianus. 9. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1888. 



ee. Anal rays II-9 ; second dorsal spine not nearly so 



long as head, and not half longer than second 



anal. rhombeus. 10. 



cc. Premaxillary groove broad, rounded behind, with a median 



linear depression, its surface scaled ; anal ra3S III-8; 



second dorsal spine about as long as head ; pectorals 



nearly as long as head, reaching front of anal; teeth 



long, slender, and brush-like ; depth 2 in length. 



olisthostoma. 11. 



bb. Preorbital serrate ; body with distinct dark stripes along the 



rows of scales ; body rhomboidal, with angular outline ; 



spines very strong. 



c. Ventrals blackish. fatao. 12. 



cc. Yentrals pale. 



d. Second dorsal spine f to f length of head, and f depth 



of body, which is 2 to 2 1 in its length. 



e. Pectoralslong,reachingabouttofrontof anal; caudal 



longer than head ; lateral stripes numerous ; 



depth nearly 2 in length. lineatiis.^ 13. 



ee. Pectorals short, barely reaching vent ; caudal 



shorter than head ; lateral stripes few ; depth 



about 2| in length. brevimanus. 14. 



dd. Second dorsal spine as long as head, and longer than 



longest anal spine ; pectorals narrow, reaching 



past tips of ventrals to anal ; lateral stripes about 



12; depth 2 to 2 J in length. plumieri. 16. 



1. Gerres lefroyi (Goode) GUnther. 



Diapterus lefroyi Goode, Am. Jour. Sci. & Aits, 123, 1874. 

 Eucinostonius lefroyi Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 5, 39, 1876. 

 Kucinostomus produetus Poey, Ann. Lye, xi, 59, 1876. 

 Gerres lefroyi Giinther, Voyage of Challenger, Fishes, 1, 10, 1880. 

 (Name only.) 

 Habitat. — Bermuda Islands. 



2. Gerres gracilis (Gill) Jordan <fe Gilbert. 



Diapterus gracilis Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 246, 1862. (Cape 



San Lucas.) 

 Gerres aprion Giinther, iv, 255, 1862. (San Domingo; Jamaica; Bahia.) 



1 The short description of Gerres hrasilianus C. and V., vi, 458, contains no 

 characteristics by which we are able to distinguish it from either G. lineatus 

 or G. brevimanus, hence we do not include it in the Key. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Eucinostomus pseudogula Poey, Anal. Soc. Esp., iv, 124 & 125, 1875. 



(Cuba.) 

 Eucinostomus harengulus Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1879, 



132. (Western Florida.) 

 Diapterus harengulus Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1879, 339, 



(Clear Water Harbor, Florida.) 

 Gerres gracilis Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S, Nat. Mus., 1881, 274 



(Guaymas) ; and Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 (Guaymas ; 



Mazatlan ; Panama) ; ibid., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan ; Panama). 

 Oerres harengulus Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 584, 1883. 



(Pensacola, Florida.) 

 Body elliptical, compressed, tapering regularly each way from 

 the spinous dorsal ; anterior profile almost straight and not steep ; 

 angle at front of breast little marked. Mouth small, maxillary 

 reaching vertically from front of orbit or slightl}^ past it. Teeth 

 rather strong, in broad patches. Exposed portion of maxillary 

 ovate, about twice as broad as long. Preorbital entire, very 

 narrow, its narrowest part about half width of maxillary. Eye 

 not very large, its diameter about equal to length of snout, or the 

 interorbital space, and is about Z\ in head. Furrow for the base 

 of the premaxillaries a narrow naked groove, its length about 

 three-fifths of the eye, and more than three times its own breadth, 

 measured from the anterior limit of the scales along its sides. 

 Preopercle entire. Dorsal spines weak and flexible, the last two 

 or three proportionally stronger than the others. Longest dorsal 

 spine about twice in head, more than two-fifths greatest depth of 

 body, and nearly twice length of second anal spine. Anal spines 

 short, the second somewhat stronger than the third, but shorter, 

 its length 3f to 4^ in head. Third spine shorter than soft rays. 

 Yentrals short, three-fifths length of head, reaching about half-way 

 to anal, but not nearly to vent. Pectorals slender, about as long 

 as head, reaching about to vent. Caudal not very long, the inner 

 margins of the lobes convex, the middle rays about one-fourth 

 length of outer ones, which are a little shorter than head. Scaly 

 sheath at base of fins moderate, the last raj's of the anal hidden 

 by it. Yentrals and caudal mostly covered with small scales ; 

 other fins naked. 



Color in life, silvery, greenish above. Snout and upper part of 

 caudal peduncle dusky. Spinous dorsal, in a male specimen, 

 dusky, punctate at base, abruptly black at tip, the dark areas 

 separated by a transparent, horizontal bar; in a female specimen, 

 the dorsal grows gradually darker at tip. Soft dorsal punctate. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Caudal with a faint dusky margin. Yentrals very slightly dusk\- 

 on the middle in the male, plain in the female. 



Head 3f\ ; depth 2^*^ ; D. IX-10 ; A. 111-7 ; lat. line 5-45-9. 



It seems probable that the habitat of the various species of 

 Gerres will be found to be much more extended than has hitherto 

 been supposed. Specimens of the present species have been 

 obtained in the West Indies, on the coast of Florida, and at 

 several points on the Pacific coasts of Central America and 

 Mexico. Prof Chas. H. Gilbert reports it as abundant at Mazatlan, 

 where it is found in shallow waters near the shore. It reaches a 

 length of six inches or more, and is known to the fishermen as 

 Mojarra cantilena. 



.S. Gerres dowi (Gill) GUnther. 



Diapterus dowi Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 162, 1863. (Panama.) 



Gerres dowi Giinther, Fish. Centr. Amer., 448, 1866 (Description taken 

 from Gill); Steindacbner, Ichth. Beitrage, iv, 13, 1875 (Xo descrip- 

 tion). (Callao, Peni; Galapagos Islands). 



Gerres dowi Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 

 (Panama); ibid., 1882, 111 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mas., 1882, 377 (Panama). 



Gerres aprion Giinther, Fish. Centr. Amer., 391, 1866. (Name only.) 

 (Panama.) 



Habitat. — Panama to Peru. Very abundant on the coasts of 

 the Galapagos Islands. (Steindachner.) 



4. Gerres jonesi Giinther. 



Gerres jonesi Giinther, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1879, iii, 150, 389; 

 Voyage Challenger, Fishes, i, 10, 1880 (Bermuda). 



Habitat. — Bermuda Islands. 



5. Gerres californiensis (Gill) Jordan & Gilb-^rt. 



Diapterus californiensis Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, 245. 



(Cape San Lucas.) 

 Gerres californiensis Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 274 



(Guaymas); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 319 



(Guaymas; Mazatlan); ihid., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan). 

 ? Gerres gula Steindachner, Ichth. Beitrage, iii, 60, 1875. (Name only; 



nee Cuv, & Val.) (Magdalena Bay.) 



Habitat. — Pacific coast of Mexico. (Mazatlan; Guaymas; Cape 

 San Lucas.) 



6. Gerres cinereus (Walbaum) Jordan <fe Gilbert. 



Turdus cinereus peltatus Catesby, pi. ii, fig. 2, 1750. 



Mugil cinereus Walbaum, Arte di Piscium, 228, 1792. (After Catesby.) 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Gerres aprion Cuv. & Val., vi, 461, 1830 (Martinique; San Domingo; 

 Montevideo; East Coast of Mexico). (Not of GnntYiev = Eucinos- 

 tomus pseudogula Poey); Poey, Rep. Fis. Cuba, i, 316, 1865. 



Diaptereus aprion Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuba, 321, 1868. (Cuba.) 



Oerres zebra Miiller & Troschel, Schomburgk Hist. Barbadoes, 668, 

 1848 (Barbadoes); Giinther, i, 343, 1859, and iv, 254, 1862 (Copied); 

 Steindachner, Iclithyol, Notizen, iv, 11, 1867 (Surinam); Stein- 

 dachner, Zur Fisch-Fauna des Magdelenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (Rio 

 Magdalena, identified with G. sguamipiniiix); Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Bull. U, S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 (Mazatlan). 



Gerres squamipinnis Giinther, i, 349, 1859, and iv, 254, 1862 (.Tamaica; 

 Gautemala); Giinther, Fish. Centr. Amer., 391, 1869 (No description) 

 (.Jamaica; Chiapam; Panama); Steindachner, Ichthyol. Notizen, 

 iv, 12, 1867 (Surinam) . 



Gerres cinerem Jordan & Gilbert, Bull, U. S. Comm., 1882, 108 

 (Mazatlan); and Syn. Fish. N. A., 935, 1883. 



Habitat. — Both coasts of Tropical America (Mazatlan ; Chiapam ; 

 Panama ; Bahamas ; Barbadoes). 



7. Gerres gala Cuvier &. VHltnciennes. 



Gerres gula Cuv. & Val., vi, 464, 1830 (Martinique ; Brazil); Jenyns, 



Zool. Beagle, Fishes, 58, 1842; Gunther, i, 346, 1859, and iv, 255, 



1862 (Atlantic Coasts of Tropical America); Poey, Rep. Fis, Cuba, 



i, 316, 1865, 

 Eucinostomus avgenteus Baird & Girard, Ninth Smith. Report, 345, 



1855; Baird & Girard, ^Nlex. Bd. Survey, 17, pi. 9, figs, 9-12, 1859. 

 f Gerres argenteu$ Giinther, iv, 256, 1862. (Atlantic Coasts of N.A.) 

 Eucinostomus gulula Poey, Anal. Soc. Esp., iv, 128, pi. vi, 1875, 

 Diapterus homonymus Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S, Nat. Mus., 1879, 



340. (Clear Water Harbor, Fla.) 

 Gerres gula Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N, A„ 934, 1883, (West 



Indies, north to Cape Cod.) 



Bod}^ elliptical, compressed, dorsal profile tapering regularly 

 each way from beginning of spinous dorsal ; anterior proftle nearly 

 straight, posterior slightl}' more convex. Line from angle at 

 front of breast to vent nearly straight. Mouth small, slightlj^ 

 oblique (when not protruded), maxillary reaching just beyond 

 vertical nt front of eye, exposed part triangular, about twice as 

 long as broad. Premaxillaries verj' protractile ; premaxillary 

 groove longer than broad, scaled in front, with a naked pit behind ; 

 these scales, however, are not very distinct in young specimens, 

 and are apt to be rubbed off in poorly preserved ones. 



Yilliform teeth on both jaws ; no canines, incisors, or molars ; 

 no teeth on vomer or palatines, Preopercle entire ; gill-rakers 



9 




122 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



short, about seven below angle. Eye large, 3 in head, its diameter 

 a little greater than its distance from snout, and about equal to 

 the interorbital space. 



Scales moderate, as in other species. Lateral line follows curve 

 of back, being most arched beneath fifth and sixth spines. 



Spinous dorsal as long as soft, second dorsal spine nearly If in 

 second anal spine, which is stronger than the third, but equals it 

 in length ; posterior ends of anal and doi'sal fins opposite, soft 

 parts of these two fins depressible into a scaly sheath. Pectorals 

 nearly as long as head, reaching to vent. Yentrals short, not 

 reaching quite to vent. Caudal deepl^^ forked. 



Color, in alcohol, silvery, palest below, no lines or bars except 

 sometimes in young, but the scales are minutely punctate with 

 dark, thickest on dorsal region. A black spot at top of spinous 

 dorsal. 



Head 3^ in length ; depth, 2a. D. IX-10 ; A. Ill-t or 8 ; Lat. 

 line about 5-45-9. 



We append averages of the measurements of thirteen specimens, 

 viz. : — 1 from Bermuda ; 2 from Beaufort, N. C. ; 2 from Charleston, 

 S. 0. ; 7 from Peusacola, Fla. ; 1 from Aspinwall. 



From a comparison of these specimens and of some seven 

 others which we have examined, we are convinced that the 

 synonymy of this species should stand as given above, 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS. 



Number of specimens measured . 



Specimens from 



Greatest depth in length . 

 Head in length. 



2.773.812.672.612.672.66 

 3. 3ll3. 183. 333. 233. 083. 23 



Distance from snout to spinous dorsal in length 2.71 2.50 



Second anal spine in second dorsal spine . 

 Eye in head. 



Depth of deepest specimen in length 



Depth of most slender specimen in length. 



Shortest 2d anal in 2d dorsal spine 



Longest 2d anal in 2d dorsal spine 



1.762.00 

 3.05 3.03 



2.512.422.39 

 1.701.72;.... 

 3.003.003.00 



3.77(3.773.632.332.67 

 2.772.863.703.862.67 

 1.76)3.001.70,3.091.... 



1.76 .... 1.701.54.... 



3.46 

 1.74 

 3.01 




1883. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



8. Gerres aareolus 'Jordan & Gilbert. 



Gerres aureolm Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Coram., 1881, 328 

 (Panama) ; ibid., 1882, 111 (Panama). 



Habitat. — Bay of Panama. 



9. Gertes peruvianas Cuvier i Valenciennes. Mnharra, China. 



Gerres peruvianus Cuv. & Val., Hist. Nat Poiss., vi, 467, 1830 (Payta, 

 Northern Peni) ; Lesson, Voyage Coquille, Poiss., 180, 1828 ; Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 330 (Mazatlan ; Panama) ; 

 ibid., 1882, 111, 108, 112 (Panama; Mazatlan; Punta Arenas); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 382 (Panama). 



Gerres rhombeus Giinther, Fish. Centr. Amer., 391, 18ti6 (Name only; 

 nee Cuv. & Val.) (Chiapam) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1881, 232 (Salina Cruz). 



Habitat.— West Coast of Tropical America (Mazatlan; Salina 

 Cruz; Panama; Chiapam; Peru). 



10. Gerres rhombeas Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Gerres rhombeus Cuv. & Val., vi, 459, 1830 (Martinique and San 

 Domingo) ; Giinther, iv, 253, 1802 (In part ; apparently confounded 

 with G. olisthostoma Goode & Bean) (Cuba; Jamaica; Puerto Cabello); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 382 (Aspinwall). 

 Habitat. — West Indies. 



11. Gerres olisthostoma (Toode & Bean. Irinh Ponnmno ,- Hof^ Fixh. 



Gerres rhombeus Poey, Syn. Pise Cuba, 32, 1858 (Not G. rhombeus of 

 Cuv. & Val , vi, 459) ; Poey, Rep. Fis. Cuba, i, 316, 1865. 



Mojarra rhombea Poey, Anal. Soc. Esp., Hist. Nat., x, 327, 1881. 



Gerres olisthostoma Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 423 

 (Indian River, Florida) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 934, 

 1883 (West Indies, north to Southern Florida). 



Habitat. — West Incjies, north to Southern Florida. 



12. Gerres patao Poey. 



Gerres patao Poey, Mem. Cub,, ii, 192, 1860; ibid., Syn. Pise. Cub., 

 320, 1868; Giinther, iv, 253, 1862 (Cuba). 

 Habitat. — West Indies. 



J 3 Gerres lineatus (Humboldt) Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Smaris lineatus Humboldt, Observ. Zool., ii, 185, pi. 46, 1807-1834. 

 (Acapulco ) 



Gerres lineatus Cuv. & Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., vi, 470, 1830 (Descrip- 

 tion from Humboldt); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1881, 330 (Mazatlan; San Bias); ibid., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan); Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 377 (Fresh-water lake at 

 Acapulco) . 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Oerres a^cillaris Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 102, 1864; Giiother, 

 Fish. Centr. Amer., 448, 1866 (Chiapam); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat, Mus., 1881, 232 (Name only). (San Bias.) 



Habitat. — West Coast of Mexico. 



14. Gerres brevimanas Giinther. 



Gerres brevimanus Giinther. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 152, 1864; 

 Giinther, Fish. Centr. Amer., 418, 1869 (Chiapam). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of Central America. 



15. Gerres brasilianus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Gerres brasilianus Cuv. and Val., vi, 458, 1830 (Brazil); Poey, Hep. 

 Fis. Cuba, i, 315, 1865. 



Habitat. — West Indies, south to coast of South America, 



16. Gerres plumieri Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Gerres plumieri Cuv, & Val,, vi, 452, 1830 (Antilles); Giinther, iv, 

 253, 1862 (Atlantic Coasts of Tropical America); Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Syn, Fish. N, A,, 583, 1883 (West Indies, north to Eastern Florida); 

 Poey, Rep, Fis, Cuba, i, 315, 1865, 



Habitat. — West Indies ; Aspinwall ; Indian River, Fla, 

 Profs, Jordan & Gilbert's collection contains specimens from 

 each of the two places last named. 




1883.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 125 



June 5. 



The Rev. 11. C. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Genus Hyliota," by Graeeanna Lewis, 

 was presented for publication. 



The death of Dr. W. Lehman Wells, a member, was announced. 



Observations on Actinosphxrium eichornii.- — A communication 

 from Miss S. G. Foulke on Actinosphaerium eichornii was read 

 by Prof. H, Carvill Lewis. 



It was stated that while observing Actinosphaeria, four indi- 

 viduals were seen to become fused, as it were, into one mass. 



At the end of an hour, this mass had separated into three 

 Actinosphaeria, two of the original four remaining fused into one. 



This double one then became constricted, a little to one side of 

 the middle, apparently' being about to separate. In a few minutes 

 the Actinosphserium began to eject, at the point of constriction, 

 a thin protoplasmic substance containing transparent granulated 

 globules and free granules. By a waving motion of the rays, the 

 masses of ejected matter were broken up, and the globules set 

 free in the water. 



These globules developed from one side an extremel}' long ray 

 of finel}' granular protoplasm, slightly elongating at the same 

 time, thus taking an oval shape. Xo trace of the axial threads 

 peculiar to the rays of adult Actinosphaeria could be discovered. 

 The average length of these globules, including the ray, was 

 •1422 mm. ; without the ray, •012T mm. 



The next act of the globules was the sending out another ray 

 from a point opposite to the first. Minute vacuoles appeared and 

 ranged themselves close to the surface of the globule. Other 

 rays were developed at various intervals of time. The appearance 

 of the young Actinospheeria gradually became more perfect in 

 resemblance to the parent. The growth was very slow, the perfect 

 form not being attained for a period varying from one to two 

 weeks, and the size was even then small. 



The exteinal layer of vacuoles of the Actinosphaerium from 

 which the globules had been ejected, contained numbers of 

 granules in active motion. In the different vacuoles the number 

 varied from ten to about one hundred, as nearl}^ as could be 

 counted. They were usuall}' congregated at one point and seemed 

 to be trying to force a waj' out. 



Sometimes a globular mass of protoplasm was seen to run 

 out upon a ray, and then, instead of returning to the body as 

 usual, drop off" into the water, and develop into a perfect Actinc- 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 1883.] 



sphasrmm, in the same manner as those ejected in a mass from 

 the body. 



Several free cells, having rays, were observed, upon touching a 

 ray of the Actinosphserium, to glide down it in the manner usual 

 to captured prey, and be re-absorbed into the body. 



One globule of protoplasm, running out towards the point 

 of a ray, stopped, and while motionless sent out a long ray 

 at right-angles to that supporting the globule. Another smaller 

 globule ran out on this secondar}' ray and, in its turn, sent out a 

 third v^y at right-angles to the secondary ray, but i)arallel to 

 the primary ray. It has been stated that the rays of the Actino- 

 sphserium never branched, but the observer tliought that the above 

 phenomenon could be truly called branching, as all the proto- 

 plasm returned to the main ray, and thence to the body. 



To ascertain whether au}^ globules of protoplasm artificially 

 freed from the body of the Actinosphaerium would develop in the 

 same manner as those above described, an Actinosphserium was 

 crushed in the livebox so violently as to completely disintegrate 

 it. The vacuoles were broken up, and the internal mass of proto- 

 plasm mixed with the water, only two or three small masses 

 of the external vacuoles remaining intact. On removing the 

 pressure, all the fluid protoplasm was seen to gather itself up into 

 gloliules, of sizes varying from -0507 mm. to -253 mm. 



These globules contained vacuoles, the size and number of the 

 vacuoles varying with the size of the globules. The water became 

 free from protoplasm, though a large number of the granules, 

 which had been contained in the external vacuoles previous to 

 the crushing of the Actinosphserium ^YQ\ivi\\\\ed swimming actively 

 about in every direction. 



The globules remained quiet for some minutes, and then began 

 to extend pseudopodial rays. The vacuoles increased in number 

 and arranged themselves close to the exterior of the globules, 

 those of the largest size pushing out the thin protoplasmic 

 covering, so as to produce a strong resemblance to the perfect 

 Actinof^pheerium. The resemblance of each globule to the original 

 Actinosphasrium became more and more perfect. The few masses 

 of the original vacuoles also protruded rays, thus conclusively 

 showing that the rays of Actinosphteria are not necessarily 

 dependent upon the central mass of protoplasm. The vacuole 

 masses developed into perfect Actinosphteria much more quickly 

 than the globules formed of the central protoplasm, an hour or 

 two being sufficient to perfect the development. The rays of all 

 the immature Actinosphaeria were irregular and flattened and in 

 many cases lacked the axial thread. 



The Actinosphaeria moved their pseudopodial rays freely in all 

 directions, the ray being bent close to the periphei'al la^-er of 

 vacuoles. 



From an original colony of eight individuals, a small bottleful 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 127 



was manufactured in the manner above described, the time 

 needed for development being in proportion to the size of the 

 fragments into which the Actinosphaeria were divided. The 

 above experiments were tried on man}- individuals, the only dif- 

 ference of result, in the various instances, being in the degree 

 of completeness with which the protoplasm separated itself from 

 the water. It was argued from the above facts, that the power of 

 an}' part of an Actinosphasrium to develop into a perfect individual 

 was inherent, and not dependent upon any peculiar condition of 

 the animalcule. 



Fig. 8, PI. XLI of Leidy's Rhizopods of North America, which 

 he doubtfully refers to the Actinosphseria, exactly resembles a 

 medium stage in the development of the globules ejected from 

 the body of the Actinosphaerium. 



The observer stated that the rays of Actinosphaerium, when 

 irritated by being compressed, would be retracted completely 

 on all sides, and would again appear on the cessation of the 

 disturbance. 



The length of time needed for the development of the Actino- 

 sphaeria, in the reproduction by natutal means, was from seven to 

 fourteen days ; that needed for the development, in the reproduc- 

 tion by artificial means, was from one to two days. 



In the latter case this length of time was needed only in cases 

 when the crushing was carried to extremes, as, when the Actino- 

 sphaetHum was simply divided into small pieces, a few hours were 

 all that was needed to complete the development of the fragments. 



June 12. 

 Mr. John H. Redfibld in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Cutaneous Nerves in Mammals. — Dr. Harrison Allen, in con- 

 tinuation of his remarks on the trophic value of the cutaneous 

 nerves spoke of the distribution of the larger setffi-bearing hair- 

 follicles in mammals as exJDOsed after depilation. He described 

 the oral, the mental, the supra-orbital and the proximo-carpal 

 groups as well as those placed on the lateral aspects of the limbs. 

 He had succeeded in tracing nerve-filaments to the follicles in all 

 instances and held that they bore close analogies to the pteryls of 

 the birds. In specimens in which the follicles were rudimentary 

 he had observed failure of the nerve also, and he was thus induced 

 to believe that a close relation existed between the setse-bearing 

 follicles and the nerves themselves. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — - 




128 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



ON THE GENUS HYLIOTA. 

 BY GRACEANNA LEWIS. 



By a letter of inquiry from Prof. G. Hartlanb, M.D., of Bremen, 

 Germany, concerning some rare African birds of the genus Hyliota, 

 attention has been drawn to the specimens now in this Academy, 

 of wliich there are three, all of them being male birds. 



The question at issue is whether there are two distinct species 

 or only one ; and as distinguished authorities differ on this point, 

 it seems proper to offer to ornithologists the testimony which 

 these specimens afford. 



The genus was first characterized by Swainson, who described 

 the species H. flavigastra. The bird was at first supposed to 

 belong to India, but was subsequently found to inhabit N. E. 

 Africa and Senegambia, and was for a long time the onl,y known 

 species of the genus. Our specimen agrees moderately well with 

 Swainson's description, but is, no doubt, an immature male, the 

 wings are brownish and are not edged with glossy purple, but 

 instead with a dull grayish white. The two external pairs of tail 

 feathers are edged more or less with white, as in the female. The 

 band of white on the wing is formed largely by the middle and 

 greater coverts, and beginning nearly at the outer edge of the wing, 

 continues obliquelj'^ across the roots of the primaries, secondaries 

 and tertials, meeting on the back with the white of the rump so 

 as to form a deep curve over the folded wings and back. The 

 white on the wing is even, more extensive than is apparent. On 

 lifting the overl3'ing dark plumage this color is seen to involve 

 nearly all of the upper portion of the wing, the internal surface of 

 which as well as the axillaries are white. The outer greater 

 coverts are white at the base but are black glossed with green on 

 their margins ; on the external feather, the black is so reduced 

 as to leave only a border on a white ground. The whole upper 

 plumage of the head and back as far as the rump is of deep blue- 

 black with glossy steeUblue reflections. 



In 1851, J. and E. Verreaux described in the Rev. et Mag. de 

 Zool., p. 308, a second species, 31uscicapa (?) violacea. In the 

 same year, H. E. Strickland brought home from the River Gaboon 

 a specimen which he described in Jardine's Contributions to 

 Ornithology, 1851, p. 132, under the name of Hyliota violacea^ 

 after having had the opportunity of consulting the manuscript of 

 Verreaux, to which he refers. He remarks as follows : " This 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



bird is interesting as affording a second species of a genus of 

 which one specimen onl}-, the H. Jiavigastra, Swains., of Senegal, 

 was hitherto known. It much resembles H. Jiavigastra, but differs 

 in its broader beak, and the less extent of white on the wing. 

 Whole upper parts black with a steel-blue gloss, of a rather more 

 purple hue than in Jiavigastra. Three or four of the greater 

 wing coverts next the body are white (in Jiavigastra the Avhole of 

 the middle, and the basal half of the greater coverts are white). 

 Lower parts pale cream-color. 



Total length 5 ; beak to front 5 ; to gape 7 ; broad 2i ; wing 

 3 ; medial retrices 1 and 9 ; external 2 ; tarsus 7." 



Of Uyliota violacea, as above described, the Academy possesses 

 two specimens. One is the identical bird on which the species 

 was founded by Yerreaux, and its characters agree with the 

 description of that author, as well as with that of Strickland, and 

 also with that to be found in Hartlaub's Ornithologie Westafricas, 

 Bremen, 1857, p. 98. 



The second specimen in possession of the Academy, belongs to 

 the Du Chaillu 1st Coll., and is also from the River Gaboon. 

 This bird is mentioned in Cassin's Catalogue, Proc. Acad, of Nat. 

 Sciences, 1869, p. 51, but no description is given. Essentially its 

 characters are the same as the type specimen of Verreaux. 



In this species, the only white to be seen on the whole wing is 

 on one single feather belonging to the inner portion of the greater 

 coverts. There are really about five feathers belonging to the 

 series of ornamental coverts, but they overlie each other, and are 

 so disposed that in the closed wing only one of them is visible. 



The rump in both species is covered with long, loose, silky 

 feathers, of a white or gra3'ish white color, from the base to near 

 the tip, when the feather suddenly becomes dark and at the same 

 time pennaceous in structure. The only difference between the 

 two species appears to be in the depth of the dark margin, or its 

 entire absence in mature specimens of Jiavigastra. In Swainson's 

 description of the type, the rump is given as pure white, but it is 

 not so in our specimen. The pennaceous dark border' is nearly as 

 deep as in violacea, so that this character cannot be relied upon 

 as a distinction between the two species. 



In his Ornithology of Angola, p. 190, Prof. Barboza du Bocage 

 acknowledges the receipt from M. Anchieta, of one specimen of 

 H. violacea. The description is that (jf a bird with a large amount 

 of white on the wing. This description does not resemble the 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



type specimen of Verfeaux, but is much more nearl^^ like Jiavi- 

 gastra Swains. 



Depending on tliis description, R. Bowdler Sharpe gives it in 

 his Catalogue of the Birds in the Collection of the British Museum, 

 instead of that of Verreaux, and, in consequence, considers H. 

 violacea as a doubtful species. 



With the privilege of examination of the type, and of comparing 

 this with the Du C haillu specimen , and tlie descriptions of Yerreaux , 

 Strickland and Hartlaub, it seems impossible to suppose that the 

 specimen sent by M. Anchieta to Prof Bocage, was that of a tl'ue 

 violacea, but was either H. Jlavigastra^ or a form intermediate 

 between the two. 



The striking differences between the two species, are the blue- 

 black plumage in the upper parts in flavigastra, and the violet- 

 black of violacea ; the broad bands of white on the wing of the 

 former, and the concentrated spot on that of the latter; the darker 

 shade of the under parts \\\ fiavigastra ; and the white thighs of 

 the one and the black of the other, together with the larger size 

 of violacea. They also inhabit different regions, Jlavigastra 

 belonging to the N. E. of Africa and Senegambia, while violacea 

 is found southward from the Gaboon to Benguela in West Africa. 



Swainson points out the general resemblance of Hyliota to the 

 African todies of the genus Platyetira, and to the Old World 'fly- 

 catchers of Muscicapa^ with a bill so much lengthened and com- 

 pressed on the sides that at first sight it might be mistaken for a 

 Sylvia, 



It also agrees with Muscicapa and Gryptolopha in having the 

 base of the bill bxoad and depressed as far as the nostrils, and 

 then compressed to the extremity, the bill being so much length- 

 ened in Hyliota that it becomes the tenuirostral form of the group 

 to which it belongs. 



The glossy blue-black plumage, white wings and buff throat are 

 in unison with related flycatchers. By the rump feathers Swainson 

 detects an analogy with the caterpillar-catchers of the Ceblepyrinae. 



In Hyliota the sexes differ remarkably in color, as they do also 

 in Platystira, such difference not being the rule in the family of 

 the Muscicapidse. Hyliota agrees with the fly-catchers in general 

 by its small and weak feet and its syndactyle toes, the outer being 

 connected with the middle as far as the first joints. The wings 

 and tail are those of Muscicapa., in which group Hyliota is placed 

 by ornithologists. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



June 19. 

 The Rev. H. C. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 

 The death of J. B. Gassies, a correspondent, was announced. 



Note on the Intelligence of the American Turret Spider. — The 

 Rev. Dr. H. C. McCook exhibited nests of Tarentula arenicola 

 Scndder, a species of ground-spider, of the family Lycosidje, 

 populnrly known as the Turret Spider. These nests, in natural 

 site, are surmounted by structures which quite closely resemble 

 miniature old-fashioned chimneys, composed of mud and crossed 





- ^>^t:. 



Nest of Turret Spider, lined with cotton. 



sticks, as seen in the log cabins of pioneer settlers. From half 

 an inch to one inch of the tube projects above ground, while it 

 extends straight downwards twelve or more inches into the earth. 

 The projecting portion or turret is in the form of a pentagon, 

 more or less regular, and is built up of bits of grass, stalks of straw, 

 small twigs, etc., laid across each other at the corners. The upper 

 and projecting parts have a thin lining of silk. Taking its position 

 just inside the watch-tower, the spider leaps out and captures such 

 insects as may come in its way. The speaker has found nests of 

 the species at the base of the Allegheny Mountains near Altoona, 

 and in New Jersey on the seashore. In the latter location the 

 animal had availed itself of the building material at hand, by 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



forming the foundation of Its watch-tower of little quartz pebbles, 

 sometimes producing a structure of considerable beauty. In this 

 sandy site, the tube is preserved intact by a delicate secretion of 

 silk, to which the particles of sand adhere. This secretion scarcely 

 presents the character of a web-lining, but has sufficient consis- 

 tency to hold aloft a frail cylinder of sand and silk, when the sand 

 is carefuUj' scooped awa}' from the site of the nest. 



A nest reeenth' obtained from Yineland, N. J., furnished an 

 interesting illustration of the power of these araneads to intelli- 

 gently adapt themselves to varying surroundings and to take 

 advantage of circumstances with which they certainly could not 

 have been previously familiar. In order to preserve the nest, with 

 a view to study the life-histor}^ of its occupant, the sod containing 

 the tube had been carefulh' dug up and the upper and lower 

 openings plugged with cotton. Upon the arrival of the nest in 

 Philadelphia, the plug guarding the entrance had been removed, 

 but the other had been forgotten and allowed to i*emain. The 

 spider, which still inhabited the tube,immediatel3^ began removing 

 the cotton at the lower portion, and cast some of it out. But 

 guided apparentl}' bj^ its sense of touch to the knowledge that 

 the soft fibres of the cotton would be an excellent material with 

 which to line its tube, she speedily began putting it to that use, 

 and had soon spread a soft, smooth layer over the inner surface 

 and around the opening. The nest, in this condition, was exhib- 

 ited and showed the interior to be padded for about four inches 

 from the summit of the tower. Dr. McCook pointed out the very 

 manifest inference that the spider must for the first time have 

 come in contact with such a material as cotton, and had imme- 

 diately utilized its new experience by substituting the soft fibre 

 foi- the ordinary sillien lining; or, rather, adding it thereto. This 

 nest with the cotton wadding is figured on p. 131. 



June 26. 



Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



The Fishes of the Batsto JRiver, N. J. — Prof. Cope gave an 

 account of the results of fisliing in the confined waters of a broken 

 dam on the Batsto River, New Jersey-. The species obtained 

 were the following. Percidse : Pcecilichthys erochrous Cope; En- 

 neacanthus aimidans Cope ; Mesogonistius chsetodon Baird ; Apho- 

 doderidae : Aphododerus sayanus Gill. ; Umbridse : Umbra limi 

 Kirtl. ; Esocidaj : Esox umbrosiis Kirt. ; Esox reticulatus Les. ; 

 Cyprinida? : Cliola chalybaea Cope; Catostomidfe : Erimyzon 

 sxicetta Lac. ; Siluridae : Amiurus prosthistius Cope, sp. nov. ; 

 Anguillidje : Angidlla rostrata Les. Prof. Cope remarked that 

 these fishes represent the fish fauna of the Carolinian district of 




1883,] NATJURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



the Nearctic realm, only three of the above, Esox reticulatiis, 

 Erimyzon sucetta and Anguilla rostrafa, extending into the 

 Alleghanian district. Of the remaining eight species, four are 

 restricted to New Jersey, and in the ease of two of them, Fceci- 

 lichthys er^ochroiis and Mesogonistius chaetodon, the corresponding 

 parts of Delaware ; the other two species being Cliola chalybaea 

 and Amiurus prosthistius. Poecilichthys erochrous is the only 

 Etheostomine perch which inhabits muddy waters, though it is 

 not confined to such bottom, living as well in the gravelly but 

 dark brown-stained streams of the New Jersey pines. The 

 Amiurus is new to science, which is quite unexpected in the case 

 of so large a fish. Its characters are as follows : — 



Caudal fin rounded when expanded, not straight or slightly 

 concave, the marginal rays being shortened. Anal fin long, one 

 specimen with 27 rays, two with 25, and one with 24 rays. An- 

 terior dorsal fin a good deal nearer the end of the muzzle than to 

 the adipose fin. Length of head 2-66 times in length without 

 caudal fin ; depth at first anal ray 4-25 times in same. Greatest 

 width of head just equal to depth of body at first anal ray. Eyes 

 small, the space between them five times their long diameter. 

 Pectoral spines a little larger than dorsal spines, with posterior 

 points onl^', which are stronger than those of the dorsal. Maxil- 

 lary barbel to near the middle of pectoral spine ; humeral process 

 little roughened, extending a little beyond middle of spine. Radii 

 D. I. 6 ; C. + 18 + ; Y. 8 ; P. I. 8. Color generally black ; the 

 under surface of the head silvery white, fading on the belly to 

 dull white and posteriorly pink, as far as base of anal fin. Fins 

 black, pectorals and ventrals pale at base. Total length m. 0*208 ; 

 from end of muzzle to base of dorsal spine, -042 ; to posterior 

 base of adipose fin -149; to base of caudal fin (end of htemapo- 

 physis) -170. Depth at first anal ray -039. Total length of a 

 larger specimen '233. 



When first seen the specimens of this species were supposed 

 to be unusually dark-colored examples of the common Ami- 

 urus nebulosus. A critical examination soon showed that they 

 diflfer in the important characters of the considerably more anterior 

 position of the dorsal fin, 4 to 7 more anal radii, and more rounded 

 outline of the caudal fin. He had compared it with the A. nebu- 

 losus from Lake George, N. Y., and from the Hudson and Dela- 

 ware Rivers. In fact its characters ally it to the western A. 

 nalalis, from which it diflfers by its more slender form and more 

 rounded caudal fin. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



ON THE FISHES OF THE RECENT AND PLIOCENE LAKES OF THE WESTERN 

 PART OF THE GREAT BASIN, AND OF THE IDAHO PLIOCENE LAKE. 



by e, d. cope. 



Preliminary Observations. 



The numerous lakes of the northwestern part of the Great 

 Basin present many points of interest to tlie geologist and biol- 

 ogist. The region which they occupy is one of comparatively 

 recent geological disturbance, so that their topographical features 

 may be regarded as of relatively modern origin. Their former 

 greater extent and intercommunication in groups has been clearly 

 pointed out by the geologists of the U. S. Survey of the Fortieth 

 Parallel ; and the species of fishes found in the pliocene and post- 

 pliocene deposits of the adjacent regions have been shown by 

 myself^ to be nearl}'^ allied to those now living in the present lakes. 



The geologists of the fortieth parallel have shown that a large 

 part of the present Territory of Utah was, during late tertiar}' 

 time, occupied by a large body of water, of which Salt Lake, 

 Utah Lake and Sevier Lake are the present representatives. To 

 this ancient sea they have given the name of Lake Bonneville. 

 They have also shown that the existing lakes of the western 

 region of Nevada were formerly united into an extensive body of 

 water, to which they have given the name of Lake Lahontan, It 

 included the existing Walker's, Carson, Humboldt, Pyramid and 

 Winnemucca Lakes. It is exceedingly probable that it will be 

 shown that a third lake existed in Oregon, north of the supposed 

 northern boundary of Lake Lahontan, which is now represented 

 by the Warner Lakes, Abert's Lake, Summer Lake and Silver 

 Lake, and probably by Harney's and Malheur Lakes on the eastern 

 side of the Oregon desert. As will be shown later, the larger 

 species of fishes found in such of these lakes as contain them, are 

 identical, and different from those of the lakes of the Bonneville 

 series. One species, the Catostomus tahoensis, is common to this 

 area and that of the true Lahontan Lakes (Tahoe and Pyramid), 

 and this Oregon lake may have been continuous with that of 

 Nevada, at a point some distance east of the mountains. Goose 

 Lake, the Klamath Lakes, and doubtless Rhett and Clear Lakes, 



1 Proceedings American Philosophical Society, Nov. 1870 and Dec. 1877. 




1883.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



form another series, characterized b}^ several points of resemblance 

 in their fish fauniip,. Whether thej were connected, forming a 

 single bod}^, at an earlier geological period, is not yet known. 

 Some of them are connected by rivers and creeks at the present 

 time, and the Klamath River discharges the contents of the lakes 

 of the same name into the Pacific Ocean. 



Still another late tertiary lake existed in Eastern Oregon and 

 Western and Southern Idaho. No body of water represents it at 

 the present time, and the remains of fishes found in its sediments 

 belong to species different from those of the Oregon basin, both 

 recent and extinct. It is to be supposed that this lake was 

 separate from all of the others, and of earlier age, although one 

 of the pliocene series. It may be called Lake Idaho, and its 

 sediment, the Idaho formation. A list of its species will be 

 given after the consideration of the characters of the faunoe 

 of the Lab on tan and Klamath Lakes. 



The cause of the desiccation of the Great Basin and other 

 interior regions of our continent, has not been satisfactorily 

 explained. It is usually ascribed to the intervention of the Sierra 

 Nevada and Rocky Mountain ranges, which precipitate the clouds 

 from the Pacific Ocean, and thus deprive the regions eastward of 

 rain. This would at first appear to be a sufficient explanation, 

 but the facts of geological history contradict it. The existence 

 of extensive lakes throughout the now dry region, in pliocene 

 and postpliocene time, has been already referred to. But the 

 Sierra Nevada was no less elevated then than now. Furthermore, 

 great lakes or seas occupied the centre of the continent during 

 miocene time, when the ranges were still higher. Vast forests of 

 vegetation, and a rich population of animal life, point to a humid 

 climate during the entire period that has elapsed since the great 

 elevation of the Rocky Mountains in the beginning of the eocene 

 epoch, to within comparatively recent times. Yet the mountains 

 have been steadily diminishing by erosion throughout that period. 

 Of course the comparatively low elevation of the Great Basin 

 would accelerate its desiccation, other conditions being equal. 

 Mr. J. D. Clayton,! of Salt Lake City, discovered immense faults 

 along the western slope of the Wasatch Mountains, and proposed 

 the hypothesis that the entire area of the Great Basin had de- 



1 Published, I believe, iu a number of the Salt Lake Herald, which I 

 cannot at present lay my hands on. 




136 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



scended several thousand feet during tertiary times. Mr. C. King ^ 

 states that the fault along the eastern edge of the basin amounts 

 to 30,000 feet, and that along the western border, from 3000 to 

 10,000 feet. The elevation of P^^ramid Lake above the sea level 

 is now, according to King,^ 3890 feet. That of the Great Salt 

 Lake is, according to Emmons. 4200 feet.^ The depression, 

 according to King, took place on the eastern side during early 

 eocene times, and may have been nearly simultaneous on the 

 western border. As a consequence of it, the Manti and Arayzon 

 beds were deposited, representing the eocene period west of the 

 Wasatch Mountains, 



I. The Lahontan and Klamath Lakes. 

 The lakes of the Great Basin in Nevada and Oregon diminish in 

 alkalinity as we approach the Sierra Nevada Mountains. While 

 desiccation has concentrated the salts in all of them, those near 

 the mountains have been maintained in a more or less fresh con- 

 dition b}' the constant influx of the pure water of the mountain 

 streams. The lakes most remote from the mountains are not 

 habitable by fishes, their only animal population being Crustacea 

 and the larvae of insects. Such are Summer and Christmas 

 Lakes of Oregon ; and the Malheur and Harney Lakes are said 

 to have the same character. That of Pyramid Lake, although 

 receiving the fresh waters of the Truckee River, is too alkaline 

 to be potable. The following analj^sis is given in Mr. King's 

 11 Vol. of the Survey of the 40th Parallel (p. 824 j, as made by 

 Prof 0, D. Allen, of Yale College : 



Magnesia, 0-1292 



Sodium, . 



Soda, 

 Chlorine, , 

 Sulphuric Acid, 

 Carbonate of Lime, 

 Carbonic Acid, 



in 1000 parts of the water. 



0-8999 

 0-4234 

 1-3870 

 0-1400 

 0-0178 

 0-2392 



3-2365 



1 Survey of the 40th Parallel, i, p. 744, 

 ■■^ Loc. cit., iii, p. 822. 

 ^ Loc. cit, ii, p. 466. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



The water of the Upper Klamath Lake is slightly alkaline to 

 the taste, and less so than that of Pyramid Lake. The waters of 

 Goose and Silver Lakes are similar to it, while that of Warner's 

 Lake is rather more alkaline. All of these lakes abound in fishes. 

 Summer Lake, Christmas Lake, and others, are intensely alka- 

 line to the taste. 



The locality which has furnished the greatest number of fossil 

 remains of the pliocene or postpliocene ages, is known as Fossil 

 Lake. It is twenty miles east of Silver Lake, in the western part 

 of the Oregon Desert, It is a shallow depression of perhaps a 

 hundred acres in extent, where drinkable water msiy be obtained 

 by digging. The soil is a mixture of sand and clay, which supports 

 a more or less luxuriant growth of Artemisia. Bones of extinct 

 and recent species of vei'tebrata, thoroughly fossilized, mixed 

 with worked flints,^ and shells of Garinifex neioherryi bleached 

 snow-white, lie in profusion in this light material. Within a short 

 distance of this locality the soil becomes sandy, and a few miles 

 northeastward the surface of the country consists of sand-dunes, 

 which rise to a height of one hundred feet. The sand is con- 

 stantly moving to the northeast under the influence of the 

 prevailing southwest wind, creeping up the long southwest slope 

 of the dunes, and falling in a fine shower over the apex of the 

 vertical northeast face. This tract is perhaps twenty miles in 

 diameter.- A smaller tract of a similar character lies at the 

 northern end of Summer Lake, where the sand is piled up 

 against the basaltic hills that bound its valley on the east. I have 

 given lists of the vertebrate fossils of this region, as cited in the 

 accompanying foot-notes. 



As described by Emmons,^ Pyramid Lake is thirty miles long, 

 by twelve wide. It is surrounded by mountains of eruptive 

 granite, trachyte and basalt. According to King, the level of this 

 lake rose, between 1867 and 1871, nine feet, while that of the 

 connected lake, Winnemucca, rose twenty-two feet. This lake is 

 exceedingly rich in life, as will be pointed out by and by. Messrs. 

 Jordan and Bean* have catalogued several species of fishes as 



' See American Naturalist, 1878, p, 125 . 



^ See Bulletin of the U. S. Geol. Survey of the Territories, F, V. 

 Haydeu, iv, p. 389 ; v, p. 48. 



» Survey of the 40th Parallel, 1, p. 506. 



* Kept, of the Chief of Engineers, U. S. A. Expl. and Surv. W. of 100th 

 Mer., G. M. Wheeler, 8vo, 1878, p. 187. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



found in it, and I enumerate several additional ones in tlie present 

 article. 



The Mud Lakes in the neighborhood south of Fort Bidwell lie 

 in a monoclinal valley' of moderately inclined beds of a plutonic 

 outflow. The strata dip towards the Sierra IS'evadas, westwards. 

 A high divide on the north separates these lake basins from that 

 of the Warner Lakes. As already remarked, it is possible that 

 they ma}- have been connected by water, which occupied lower 

 lands to the eastward, but this point remains as yet unsolved. 



The four Warner Lakes occupy' a long valley, which trends 

 north and south. They are connected by a stream which flows 

 through a succession of swamps of Typha latifolia. They abound 

 in fishes and fishing-birds. The valley is apparently a fractured 

 anticlinal, the strata dipping away from the lake on both the east 

 and the west sides. The rocks are a dark-colored basalt. At the 

 first and second lakes the western bluff is the higher, reaching, to 

 judge by the eye, nearlj^ a thousand feet elevation at the lower 

 part of the third lake. At the northern part of the latter, at 

 Wilson's Ranch, the eastern bluff is the higher, reaching the 

 grand proportions of two thousand feet, estimated measurement. 



Summer Lake is eighteen miles long and six or seven miles 

 wide. The hills and bluffs of the western side probably reach a 

 thousand feet in elevation. Those of the eastern side are much 

 less elevated, and are separated from the water b}^ a wide slope 

 of sand and alkaline earth and mud. The western range is 

 basaltic. At one point where the escarpment is especially steep, 

 the brown basalt is overlaid by a deposit of white pumice or 

 siliceous dust, which is worn into a picturesque sculpture by the 

 weather. 



I did not get a near view of Abert Lake, but it lies between 

 high basaltic bluffs, of which the eastern is the more elevated, 

 rising to a great height above the water. It is supplied with water 

 by the Chewaucan River, which is a large creek with a fine flow of 

 pure water. It abounds in fishes, especially the trout, Salmo 

 purpuratus. 



Silver Lake also lies in a valley with eastern and western walls 

 of basalt. The strata of which the walls are composed, dip away 

 from each other here, as at Warner's Lake, producing the impres- 

 sion that the lake occupies a fracture in an anticlinal. A range of 

 hills, terminating at its eastern extremitj'^ in a bluff, extends along 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 139 



the north side of the lake. The rock of which it is composed 

 differs from those of the principal ranges, in being a finely bedded 

 volcanic conglomerate mud. The same material forms bluffs 

 forty-five miles eastward in the desert. During the season of 

 1882 the waters of Silver Lake rose higher than had been pre- 

 viously known. It is probable that these lakes are rising, as is 

 the case with Pyramid Lake. A comparatively small elevation 

 would connect the waters of Silver Lake with Summer Lake, 

 eighteen miles distant, and those of Summer Lake with the 

 Chewaucan River, seven miles distant. This would convert the 

 Chewaucan Swamp into a lake, and connect the Abert Lake with 

 the series. 



Goose Lake is thirty miles in length and about ten miles in 

 width. It is bounded on the east and west by eruptive moun- 

 tains of no great elevation near the lake, but which rise gradually 

 to a considerable height, especially to the eastward. To the 

 north and south the valley of the lake continues for several miles. 

 It is cut off to the north by the watershed of the Chewaucan, and 

 to the south by that of Pitt River. The scenery of its banks is 

 tame as compared with that of some of the other lakes, but 

 presents nevertheless many elements of beautj'. It is shallow 

 for a long distance from its northern and eastern shores. It 

 abounds in fishes and water-birds. I fished for a day with hook 

 and line without success, but procured a good collection of fishes 

 b}^ anothermethod. I found numerous specimens both fresh and 

 dry, which had been dropped by fishing-birds on or near the shore. 



The great or L'pper Klamath Lake is thirty-two miles long, and 

 of irregular width, and is said to be twelve miles across its 

 widest part. Its western shore is the base of the Cascade Moun- 

 tains, and its eastern shore is bordered b^- a low range of eruptive 

 hills. Both shores are wooded ; and the scenery, though it lacks 

 the rugged grandeur of that of Warner's and Abert's Lakes, is 

 highly picturesque. The s^-mmetrical proportions of Mount 

 Pitt are ever visible on its eastern shore, while the more central 

 peaks of the Cascades are in view from its northern extremity. 

 It is fed by several streams, the most important of which is tiie 

 Williamson's River, which enters it from the east. This has a 

 considerable flow of water. The Link River, which connects the 

 Upper and Lower Klamath Lakes with the Klamath River, is a 

 wide and rapid stream containing much water. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



The Upper Klamath Lake is more prolific in animal life than 

 an}^ body of water known to me. The proportion of alkali which 

 it contains appears most favorable to the development of life. 

 Its waters are full of vegetable impurities, living and dead, and 

 mollusca and Crustacea abound everywhere. These sustain a 

 great population of fishes, which, though not numerous in species, 

 is so in individuals. Swarms of fishing-birds employ themselves 

 in catching them living from the lake. The most abundant mol- 

 lusca are the Planorbis ( Garinifex) neicherryi Lea, and a Lymnsea. 

 A probably hydroid polyp is found attached to the bark of 

 submerged trees in large numbers. Its creeping yellowish stems 

 are imbedded in sarcode, forming a continuous mass. Each 

 zobid is of an elongate oval form, sessile, and with six rays of 

 equal size, each one-half as long as the body. These zooids are 

 translucent, but with two oval bodies in the lower half of the 

 bod^'-cavity, of a 3-ellow color. The masses are as large as the fist. 

 The length of each zodid is one millimetre. They did not extend 

 themselves beyond this length, neither did the rays elongate to 

 beyond half the same, so long as I observed them. They retracted 

 themselves on being irritated. They do not possess any fringes 

 like the arms of the Polyzoa. As the possession of a coenoecium 

 distinguishes this genus from all the fresh-water hydroids, I pro- 

 pose to characterize this remarkable form as the type of a new 

 genus, with the name of Bhizohydra, and the species, by the name 

 of flavitincta.^ 



The following mollusca which I obtained were identified by 

 Mr. Try on, to whom my acknowledgments are due : — 



Ancylus newherryi Lea. 



Limnaea stagnalis Lea. 



Physa gyrina Say, 



Pompholyx effusa Lea. 



Planorbis corpulentus 8&y. 



Garinifex newherryi Lea. 



Anodonta wahlamatensis Lea. 

 In my explorations of these lakes, I was greatly aided by Col. 

 Whipple, in command at Fort Klamath, and Col. Barnard, in 

 command at Fort Bidwell, and Dr. George Kober, surgeon at the 



^ My attempts to preserve some of the masses of this animal in alcohol 

 were not successful. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



latter post. To these gentlemen I wish to express my thanks. 

 My especial thanks are also, due to General W. T. Sherman, 

 commander-in-chief of the army, from whom I have received 

 many favors, on this and other occasions. 



Synopsis op the Fishes. 



ISOSPONDYLI. 



Salmo purpuratus Pallas. 



Pyramid Lake; Chewaucan River; Silver Creek (tributary of 

 Silver Lake) ; Klamath Lake, and Williamson's River. 



As Jordan remarks, this fish varies as to its color-shades, and 

 is hence imagined by fishermen to include several species. A 

 specimen from Link River (the part of Klamath River connecting 

 the Klamath Lakes) is nearly silver-white. Specimens from Wil- 

 liamson's River are of darker color. I examined a large number 

 of individuals from that stream, and found the following varia- 

 tions in some of them. One specimen Br. XI ; Anal 10| ; one, Br. 



XII, A. 9|; six, Br. XII, A. lOi; three,Br.XIII, A. lOj ; one, Br. 



XIII, A. Ill ; one, Br. XIII, A. 12^. 



An important food fish, sometimes reaching ten pounds in 

 Klamath Lake. 

 Salvelinus malma Walb. 



Seven-mile Creek, which enters Lake Klamath from the north- 

 west. 



PLECTOSPONDYLI. 



APOCOPE Cope. 

 Apocope ventrioosa Cope Jordan, 1. c, p. 211. 



Abundant in the small streams near Fort Bidwell, X. E. Cali- 

 fornia. 

 Apocope vulnerata Cope. Jordan, 1. e., p. 210. 



Abundant in streams near Fort Bidwell, and in those tributary 

 to Warner's Lake and Abert's Lake. 



AGOSIA Gird. 



This genus is stated by Jordan to agree with Apocope, excepting 

 in the possession of a complete lateral line. 

 Agosia novemradiata Cope, sp. nov. 



Scales 11-60-11; radii, dorsal I. 9; anal I. 7. The head is 

 rather elongate, especially the muzzle, which projects a little 

 beyond the mouth. Eye 4-5 times in length of head ; 1-5 times in 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[,1883. 



length of muzzle, and in interorbital width. Head four times in 

 length without caudal fin ; depth at ventral fin, five times in the 

 same. Dorsal fin originating behind line of last ventral ray ; 

 radii always I. 9. Caudal peduncle rather deep. 



Measurements. m. 



Total length (with caudal fin), . . . . -lOt 



Length to edge of operculum, .... "010 



Length to first ventral ray (outside), . . . '044 



. Length to first dorsal ray (^outside), . . . '047 



Length to first anal ray (outside), . . . '060 



Length to base of caudal fin, .... '085 



Depth at occipital region, "013 



Depth at first dorsal ray, ..... "018 



Depth at first anal ra}-, . . . . . . "016 



Depth of caudal peduncle, -009 



Color silver}-, dusted with smoky, to below the lateral line, and 

 marked on the sides and back with several rows of dusky spots. 

 Bases of inferior fins and upper lip red. 



This species differs from the species of Apocope^ which it 

 generally resembles, in having a perfect lateral line. It agrees 

 with the A. henshavi in having nine dorsal rays, but has a longer 

 muzzle and larger scales. The latter has the following scale 

 formula, 16-67-12. It is possible that some of the specimens 

 referred by Jordan to the A. henshavi belong here. Abundant in 

 Weber River at Echo, Utah, 



CLIOLA Gird. 

 HyhopsiH ''Agass." Cope and others. 

 Cliola angustarca Cope. Proceeds. Ainer. Philo?. Society, 1877, p. 2.30. 



Well distinguished from the allied fossil species by its narrower 

 pharyngeal bones, and its teeth 4-4. Fossil Lake, Oregon. 



MYLOLETJCUS Cope. 



Annual Report U. S. Geol. Survey Terrs., 1871, p. 475. Jordan, Synopsis Fishes 

 North America, 1883, p. 887. 



This genus differs from Leucus Heck, in its dental formula, 5-4 

 instead of 5-5. It is characteristic of the streams and lakes of the 

 Great Basin, and of those waters of Oregon and California which 

 lie nearest to them. Most of the lakes of southwestern Oregon 

 contain them, and their variations are such as to render their 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



specific characters somewhat difficult to unravel. Teeth of species 

 of this genus occur in the pliocene lake deposits of the Great 

 Basin. 



Myleleucns gi'bbarcas Cope. Alhumops gibharcns Cope, Proceeds. Anier. Phil- s. 

 Society, 1877, p. 230. Anchi/hopsie hrcvinrcuH Cope. 1. c, p. 229. 



The presence of four teeth on the right pharyngeal bone of 

 specimens referred to Alhumops, as above, is not established ; and 

 the other characters point to the specific identity of the indi- 

 viduals included under the two names cited. It was abundant in 

 a fossil state at Fossil Lake, Oregon, whence I have obtained 

 about twent}' pharj-ngeal bones of both sides. First discovered 

 by Chas. M. Sternberg. 



The recent species may be distinguished as follows : — 

 Scales 11-12 — 51-5 — 6-7; anal rays I. 8; head 3*5 ; depth 3-5 to 



4 times in length. M. formosus. 



Scales 10 — 47-50 — 5 ; anal rays I. 8 ; head 3*5 ; depth 4 times in 



length. M. parovanus. 



Scales 9-46-4 ; anal rays I. 9 ; head 3-75 ; depth 4*5 times in 



length. M. thallassinus. 



Myloleucns formosita Girard. Jordan, Synopsis Fishes N.A., p. xxi. Leticus formoauH 

 Jordan, Report Capt. G. M. Wheeler, Expl. W. 100th Mer., 8ro, 1878, p. 193. 



Specimens of this fish from Silver Lake represent a form of 

 the species allied to the M. obesus, in the greater depth of the 

 body tiian those found in the Chewaucan River and the Warner 

 Lakes. In the first named, the depth enters the length 3*5 times ; 

 in the last two, four times. The Silver Lake specimens diverge 

 from the types in having the scales a little larger. They are 

 thus counted in the three sets of specimens : — 



Silver Lake 11 — 51-3 — 8; Chewaucan 11-55-7; Warner Lake 

 12 — 54-5 — 7. The largest specimen is from Warner's Lake and 

 measures 8j inches in length. 



Myloleucas parovanus Cope. Zoology Wheeler's E.-spl. Surv. W. 100 h Mer., p. 669. 



This species was originally described by me from the Beaver 

 River of L^tah. It now appears that is the most abundant 

 cyprinoid of Goose and Klamath Lakes. It reaches a length of 

 10 to 12 inches, and forms a large part of the food of the great 

 flocks of various species of fishing-birds which live at those lakes. 

 Its specific characters are constant in a large number of indi- 

 viduals. Prof Jordan identified this species with the 31. bicolor 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



of Girard, but he gives the scale formula of that species as 

 8-50-5, and the anal rajs as 1 — characters quite inconsistent with 

 the 31. x>arovanus. 



Myloleucas thalassinus sp. nov. 



This species rests on a single specimen which I obtained at 

 Goose Lake, Oregon. It is a more slender fish than the M. paro- 

 vanus, and its color when fresh is light, translucent green, quite 

 different from the more or less heavy olivaceous color of the 

 latter. Its proportions are expressed in the key above given, as 

 well as the smaller number of longitudinal rows of scales, and 

 the additional rav of the anal fin. 



Measurements. 



Total length (with caudal fin), 



Length to edge of opercle, 



Length to base of dorsal on lateral line. 



Length to base of ventral on lateral line, 



Length to base of anal on lateral line, 



Length to base of caudal on lateral line. 



Depth at first dorsal ray, . 



Depth at first anal ra}'^, 



Depth of caudal peduncle, 



"Width of interorbital region 



Width of orbit, 



LEUCUS Heckel. 



M. 



•143 



•031 



•059 



•061 



•0805 



•114 



•026 



•022 



•014 



•010 



•007 



Fische Syriens, 184.3, p. 48. Atichybopsis Cope, Proceed. Amer. Philos. Society, 1870, 

 p. 543. 



I found recent species of this genus in Pyramid Lake, Nevada, 

 only. Some extinct species occur in the pliocene beds of Oregon 

 and Idaho.^ The two species from P3'ramid Lake differ as follows : 



Scales 13-14—56-9—7-8; anal rays I. 8; head 3'66 in length; depth 

 4 (3"75); e^-e in head 5 times. L. olivaceus. 



Scales 14-15 — 63-6 — 8 ; anal ra3'S 1.8; head 4 times in length ; 

 depth 4^5 times ; eye 3^5 in head. L. dimidiatus. 



^ Leucus latus; Anchyhopsis latus Cope, Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Soc., 

 1. c, Idaho; size large. Leucus altarcus; Anchyhopsis altarcus Cope, loc. 

 cit., 1877, p. 229. From Oregon; small. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



Leucus olivaceus sp. nov. 



The largest cyprinoid of the Pyramid Lake, and veiy abundaut. 

 The shape is a regularly compressed fusiform. The head narrows 

 to the muzzle, and the mouth opens obliquely forwards and 

 upwards. The end of the maxillaiy bone, when the mouth is 

 closed, is concealed in a sheath, and extends a little beyond the 

 anterior margin of the eye. The latter enters the length of the 

 muzzle (without the chin) 1-33 times ; and the interorbital space 

 1*60 times. Middle of front a flat longitudinal surface, bounded 

 on each side by an angle, from which the surface slopes to the 

 superciliary border. In the 3Iyloleucus parovanus, a fish of 

 similar size, the frontal is flat roof-shaped, there being a median 

 longitudinal angle. In specimens from Klamath Lake, however, 

 the lateral angles are more distinct than in those from Goose 

 Lake. This fish is everywhere a dusky olive, except on the belly, 

 which is silvery. No lateral band. Fins dusky. 



3Ieasuremcnts. 



Total length, with caudal fin. 



Length to edge of opercle, . 



Length to base of dorsal, on lateral line. 



Length to base of ventral, on lateral line, 



Length to base of anal, on lateral line, 



Length to base of caudal, on lateral line, 



Depth at first dorsal ray, . 



Depth at first anal ray. 



Depth at caudal peduncle, . 



Width of interorbital region. 



Width of orbit, . 



M. 



•283 

 •064 

 •122 

 •131 

 •173 

 •235 

 •060 

 •043 

 •027 

 •020 

 •0126 



This and the smaller L. dimidiatus swim in schools in the lake, 

 and may be seen from the elevated road along the rocky shores, 

 rippling the surface like a gust of wind. At this signal, the 

 pelicans, gulls and terns quickly congregate, and are soon actively 

 employed in fishing. 



Leucus dimidiatus Cope, sp. nov. 



This verj- abundant fish is much smaller than the adult L. 

 olivaceus^ and has a more slender form, smaller scales, and a 

 different coloration. The eye nearl}- equals the interorbital width 




146 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1883. 



and a little exceeds the length of the muzzle. The mouth slopes 

 upwards, and the extremity of the maxillary bone reaches to the 

 anterior edge of the orbit. The ventral fin originates behind the 

 point below the first dorsal ray by the width of a ray. The fins 

 are all rather small, except the caudal. The sides and bell}' are 

 a pure silver- white up to the eighth row of scales below the dorsal 

 fin. Above that line the sides and back are a light brown, 

 becoming lead-colored along the border of the white. In some 

 specimens this lead-color forms an obscure band. 



Measurements. 



M. 



Total length with caudal fin, -1 04 



Length to edge of operele, -021 



Length to first dorsal ray on lateral line, . . -042 



Length to first ventral ray on lateral line, . . -043 



Length to first anal ray on lateral line, . . . -060 



Length to caudal fin on lateral line, . . . -084 



Depth at first dorsal ray, -019 



Depth at first anal ray, . . . . . • "0148 



Depth at first caudal peduncle, 009 



Width of interorbital space, .... -OOt 



Width of orbit, -006 



This species exists in immense numbers in Pyramid Lake, where 

 it doubtless furnishes much food for the trout, Salmo purpuratus. 



Leucns altarcus Cope. 

 1877, p. 229. 



Anchyhopsis altarcus Cope, Proceeds. Amer. PhilosDph. Soc, 



Extinct ; from Fossil Lake, Oregon, onh'. 

 pharyngeal bones and teeth. 



Represented by 



SIPHATELES Cope. 



Gen. Nov. Char. — Pharyngeal teeth 5-5, with well developed 

 grinding surfaces. Yentral fins beneath the anterior part of the 

 dorsal. Lateral line very imperfectly developed. 



This genus is Leucus, with undeveloped lateral line. The only 

 species does not resemble any of the others here described. 



Siphateles vittatus sp. nov. 



Scales 11-55-5 ; radii D. I. 8 ;. A. I. 8. Head 4 times in length 

 without caudal fin ; depth of body 4-5 times in the same. Eye 

 one-third of length of head, and a ver}- little less than interorbital 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



U7 



width. Mouth opening obliquely upwards, the maxillary not quite 

 reaching the anterior edge of the eye. 



Measurements. 



M. 



Total length with caudal fin, .... "07 T 



Length to edge of operculum, . . . . '016 



Length to line of dorsal fin on lateral line, . . •0323 



Length to line of ventral fin on lateral line, . '0328 



Length to line of anal fin on lateral line, ; . '045 



Length to base of caudal on lateral line, . . *061 



Depth at first dorsal ray, 0133 



Depth at first anal ray, . . . . . '0105 



Depth of caudal peduncle, 'OOGS 



Diameter of interorbital space, .... '045 



Diameter of eye, "0445 



Belly and sides silvery ; a straight lead-colored lateral band ; 

 above this, pale reddish (in spirits). The leaden band is inter- 

 rupted at the base of the caudal fin by a vertical band of straw- 

 yellow, which has a dark posterior edge. 



In the species of Leucus from the same locality (Pyramid Lake), 

 there are 23 or 24 longitudinal rows of scales ; in this one there are 

 only IT. 



SQTJALIUS Bonap. 

 Jordan, S. nopsis Fishes X. America, p. 230. 



The species of this genus, as defined by Jordan, that I have 

 observed in the Oregon Lakes, are two, which differ as follows : 



Scales 13-63-7 ; dorsal rays I. 9 ; head 3-75 to 4 times in length ; 

 depth in do. 4 times ; eyes in head 4*25 times ; teeth 2-5-5-2. 



S. cceruleus. 



Scales 12-60-5; dorsal rays 1.8; head 4 times in length; 

 depth in do. 4*25 times ; eye in head 3 times ; teeth 1-4-5*]. 



S. galtise. 

 Sqaalius cceruleus GirarJ. Jordan, 1. c, p. 241. 



Abundant in Klamath Lake. The specimens differ among 

 themselves somewhat ; thus, the depth enters the length 3-60 times 

 in some ; 4 times in others. The dorsal fin originates above the 

 ventral in some ; a little behind in others. The teeth all have the 

 grinding surface distinct, and the dorsal fin always has L 9 rays. 

 Length of the longest specimen, b^ inches. 




148 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



Sqaalius galtiae sp. nov. 



This species belongs to the group Clinostomus, where the dorsal 

 fin originates a little behind the line of the front of the ventrals, 

 and the teeth have no grinding surface. The lateral line is, on 

 the other hand, but little decurved, and there are but eight anal 

 rays (in one specimen nine). The muzzle is short and the mouth 

 oblique, without prominent chin, and with the extremit}' of the 

 maxillar}' bone extending a little beyond the line of the anterior 

 rim of the orbit. The interorbital region is gently and regularly 

 convex, and is as wide as the diameter of the orbit. 



The color is olive above, as far laterally as a plumbeous band 

 which extends from the superior angle of the operculum to the 

 middle of the base of the caudal fin. Below this line, the sides 

 and belly are silver, except a broad band of crimson, which extends 

 from the branchial fissure, to the line of the first anal ray. Side 

 of head with a dusky band. This is the only species I have seen 

 in this region which displays brilliant colors. 



Measurements. M. 



Total length with caudal fin, . . . . -OQI 



Length to edge of opercle, -014 



Length to first dorsal ray on side, . . . '0298 



Length to first ventral ray on side, . . . '0282 



Length to first anal ray on side, . . . "0385 



Length to base of caudal fin, .... '056 



Depth at first dorsal ra^^ -014 



Depth at first anal ray,. ..... '0103 



Depth of caudal peduncle, '006 



Interorbital width, -0043 



This pretty species is quite abundant in Pyramid Lake. 



THASMISTES Jordan. 



This curious genus is confined to the lakes of the Great Basin. 

 One species, the C. liorus J. and G., is very abundant in the 

 Utah Lake, while the others occur on the western side of the 

 same zoological area. Two of them I discovered in Lake Klamath 

 in 1879, and I now add a fourth from Pyramid Lake. These 

 fishes are the largest that inhabit the waters of the Great Basin. 

 They are essentiall}' Catostomi in which the fleshy- lips are wanting, 

 the mouth having the characters of the majority of the Cypri- 

 nidse. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Chasmistes cujus sp. nov. 



I procured but one specimen of this fish from Pyramid Lake, 

 where it is difficult to obtain. The size is large ; the specimen I 

 procured measured eighteen inches in length. The head is wide and 

 flat, the width of the interorbltal space being more than half the 

 length. The upper lip is ver}- thin ; the lower lip is represented 

 b3'^ folds on each side, which do not connect round the symph^'sis. 

 Scales 13-65-11. Dorsal rays 12; anal I. 8. The eye enters the 

 length of the head 8"5 times, and the interorbltal width 4*5 times. 

 The swim-bladder has but two cells. The colors are pale olive. 



The pharyngeal teeth of this species are much like those of the 

 C. liorus in their triangular section ; they are, nevertheless, of 

 delicate construction. The head of this species is relatively 

 larger and wider than in any of the others, which gives it a heavy 

 and clums}^ appearance. 



This fish is said by the fishermen to inhabit the deepest water, 

 and to be seen in numbers only at the time of breeding. Its 

 habits in this respect agree with what is said of the C. luxatus of 

 the Klamath Lake. The Indian name of the Chasmistes cujus 

 is "Couia." 



Chasmistes brevirostris Cope. American Na'uralist, 1879, p. 785. Jordan, Fishea 

 N. Amer., p. 132, 1883. 



This fish does not exceed 14 to 16 inches in length, and has a 

 differently formed head and muzzle from the C. luxatus. They are 

 shorter, especially the muzzle, and the latter is without the hump 

 produced bj'^ the protuberant premammary spines. Parietal fon- 

 tanelle small. The lower lip-fold is only present at the sides of 

 the mandible. Both lips are smooth. Eye round, its diameter 

 entering the length of the head six and two-thirds times, of which 

 three times enters the muzzle. Interorbltal region flat, its width 

 entering the length of the head two and one-eighth times. Body 

 nearlj'^ cylindric. Scales 12-T4-11; radii D. 11, A. 9. Color 

 dusky above, silvery below ; fins colorless. This fish is abundant 

 in Klamath Lake, but I was informed by a Klamath chief, that it 

 does not ascend Williamson's River in spring with the C. luxatus 

 and Gatostomus labiatus. Klamath name, "Xooptu." 



Chasmistes luxatus Cope, American Naturalist, 187^, p. 785. Jordan, 1. c, p. 132. 



Form elongate ; head long, flat above, and with a large fontanelle. 

 Mouth terminal, the spines of the premaxillary bones projecting 

 so as to form a hump on the top of the snout. Lower lip a very 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



thin dermal fold, extending entirely around the chin. Both upper 

 and lower lips delicateh' tubercular. Eye oval, the axis longi- 

 tudinal, and contained seven times in the length of the head, of 

 which three and a-half times are contained in the muzzle. Inter- 

 orbital region flat, one-third as wide as the head is long. Scales 

 12-80-9 ; radii D. 11, A. 9. Color clouded above with black punc- 

 tulations ; below paler, with red shades in some specimens ; fins 

 uncolored. It attains a length of nearly three feet. It ascends 

 the streams tributary to Lake Klamath in thousands in the spring, 

 and is taken and dried in great numbers by the Klamath and 

 Modoc Indians. The former call it "Tswam." 



The character of the lips, the oval eye, and the less interorbital 

 width distinguish this species from the C. brevirostris. as well as 

 the longer muzzle and superior size adduced in my original 

 description. 



On this species and the C. hrevirostris I proposed the genus 

 Lipomyzon, on the supposition that the pharyngeal bones and 

 teeth of C. liorus were like those of the genus Catostomus^ from 

 which those of these species differ in their greater attenuation. 

 During the summer of 1882, 1 obtained a number of specimens of 

 (7. liorus^ and find that while its pharyngeal bones are less atten- 

 uated than those of G. luxatus, they are more so than in some 

 species of Catostomus, so that I cannot distinguish, generically, 

 the species of Klamath Lake. The pharyngeals of G. hrevirostris 

 are not more attenuated than those of G. liorus. 



CATOSTOMUS Le«. 

 Catostomus labiatus Ayres. Cope, American Naturalist, 1879, p, 785. 



This species abounds in Klamath and Goose Lakes, but I did 

 not observe it in any of the lakes to the eastward of these. The 

 formulae are : — 



Klamath Lake: scales, 10-14-11 ; radii D. I. 11 ; Y.IO ; head 4*5 

 times in length ; eye 5"5 times in head. 



Goose Lake: scales 12^13 — 75 — 11 ; radii ; D. I. 11 ; Y. 10 ; eye 

 6 ; head 4*5 times in length. 



The largest specimens measure twelve inches in length. 

 Remains of species of this family are abundant in the pliocene 

 sands of Oregon, but do not represent many species. Pharyngeal 

 bones and teeth indicate that the species are true Catostomi. 



Crania and other bones of one of the species have been found 

 abundantly at Fossil Lake. In some of the specimens the 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



pharj'iigeal bones and teeth are preserved. I cannot distinguish 

 the specimens from corresponding parts of the common sucker of 

 Lake Klamath, named by Ay res as above. They, however, present 

 considerable variations among themselves. These may be stated 

 as follows : 



I. Ethmoid and front convex transversely. 



a. Parietal fontanelle small. Two specimens. 

 aa. Parietal fontanelle large. Three specimens ; two of them 

 lent me by Prof. Thos. Condon, of Eugene, Or. 

 II. Ethmoid and front a little convex ; fontanelle large ; in both 

 points resembling the typical specimens from Lake 

 Klamath. One specimen. 

 III. Ethmoid and front plane, the latter a little concave in 

 profile. Fontanelle large. One specimen. 

 There are numerous other skulls in my collection, but they are 

 not 3'et sufficiently cleared of matrix to displa}' their characters. 

 Catostomus batrachops sp. nov. 



This sucker is characterized by the short, wide and depressed 

 form of the cranium. The ethmoid bone is considerabl^y more 

 than twice as wide as long (minus the spine), while in G. labiatufs 

 it is onl}' half as long as wide. The interorbital width is equal to 

 the length of the skull, minus the ethmoid bone and epiotic spine ; 

 in C. labiatus this width is a good deal less than the dimension 

 mentioned. The ethmoid and frontal bones are less convex than 

 is the case in the more common fossil variety of C. labiatus. 

 Although the bridge separating the temporal and pterotic fossae 

 is wide in C. labiatus, it is wider in the C. batrachops, and has a 

 concave superior surface, which is not separated bj' ridge or 

 angle from that of the superior plate of the parietal bone. There 

 is no frontal keel, and the fontanelle is well developed. 



Measurements. m. 



Length from epiotic spine to ethmoid spine, inclus., "084 



Length of ethmoid, minus spine, .... '018 



Length of frontal bone (median), .... '032 



Length of parietal bone (median), . . . '015 



Interorbital width, "056 



Width at pterotics, about '062 



Width between apices of epiotics, . . . "032 



Width of ethmoid, '042 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



This species appears to have been about eighteen inches in 

 length. The onlj^ skull which represents it was found by Charles 

 H. Sternberg, near Silver Lake, Oregon. 



Catostomns tahoensis Gili and Jordan. Synopsis Fishes N. Amer., 127. 



This is the common species of the lakes which represent the 

 Lahontan Basin. I found it in Pyramid Lake and the third 

 Warner Lake. The formulae are as follows : 



Pyramid Lake: scales 14-89-14; radii D. I. 11 ; Y. 9; head 

 4'5 times in length. 



Warner Lake: scales 16-83-15 ; radii D. I. 11 ; Y. 9; head 4 



times in length. 



PERCOMORPHI. 



URANIDEA Dekay. 



Uranidea minata Pallas. Jordan Synopsis, p. 698. 



Abundant in Klamath Lake ; not seen elsewhere. 



General Remarks. 

 The species noticed in the preceding pages may be enumerated 

 with reference to their geographical distribution, in the following 



lists : — 



I. Pyramid Lake. 



Salmo purpuratus henshavi Siphateles lineatus Cope. 



Jord. Squalius galtiae Cope. 



Leucus olivaceus Cope. Chasmistes cujus Cope. 



Leucus dimidiatus Cope. Catostomus tahoensis G. & J. 



II. Fort Bidwell. 



Apocope vulnerata Cope. Apocope ventricosa Cope. 



III. Warner's Lake. 

 Apocope vulnerata Cope. Catostomus tahoensis G. & J. 



MyloleucuK formosus Gird. 



IV. Goose Lake. 

 3IyIoleucus parovanus Cope. Catostomus labiatus A.yxQS. 

 Myloleucus thalassinus Cope. 



V. Klamath Lake. 

 Salmo purpuratus Pall. Chasmistes hrevirostris Cope. 



Salvelinus malma Walb. Chasmistes luxatus Cope. 



Myloleucus parovanus Cope. Catostomus labiatus Ayres. 

 Squalius coeruleus Gird. Uranidea minuta Pall. 



Squalius hicolor Gird. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



VI. Silver Lake. 

 Salmo purpuratus Pall. Myloleucus formosus Gird. 



VII. Abert's Lake. 

 Salmo ■pinyuratus Pall. Myloleucus formosus Gird. 



Ajiocope vulnerata Cope. 



VIII. Weber River, Utah. 

 Bhinichthysfransmontanus Cope. Squalius montanus Cope. 

 Agosia novemradiata Cope. Pantosteus platyrhynchus Cope. 



IX. Fossil Lake, Oregon. (FossiL) 



Leuciis altarcus Cope. Catostovius labiatus Ayres. 



Myloleucus gibbarcus Cope. Catostomus batrachops Cope. 

 Gliola angustarca Cope. 



Examination of the preceding lists discloses the following 

 facts: (1). The species of Leucus replace in Pj'ramid Lake the 

 Myloleucus of the other lakes. (2). All the species of Pyramid 

 Lake are peculiar to it, excepting the Catostomus tahoensis, which 

 is found in the third (and probably other) Warner Lakes, one 

 hundred and fift}' miles north of it. (3 ). The Myloleucus formosus 

 inhabits the eastern line of lakes — Warner's, Abert's and Silver 

 Lakes; while the M. parovanus is confined to the more western 

 lakes, the Goose and Klamath. (4\ The distribution of the 

 Catostorai is similar; the C. tahoensis being the eastern, in 

 Pyramid and Warner's Lakes, and the C. labiatus in the Goose 

 and Klamath Lakes. 



The distribution of the other species is not sufficiently known 

 to enable us to draw any conclusions regarding them. 



II. The Fauna of the Idaho Lake. 

 RAIID^. 



Baia pentagona Leidy. Oncohatis pentngonus Leidy, Proceeds. Phila. Academy, 

 1870, p. 70. 



A species said to have been found in the beds of this deposit. 



It is referred to a new genus by Leidy, who, however, does not 



characterize it. 



CYPRINID^. 



This family predominates over all others in the number of 

 species and individuals. Typical carnivorous forms (^Squalius) 

 were not rare, but the greater number of genera are carnivorous 

 with the teeth less (^Leucus, Myloleucus) or more {Mylocyprinus) 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



adapted for crushing hard substances. The food of such species 

 ■was probably moUusca. There were but few herbivorous forms, 

 and these {Diastichus sp.) not typical, but related to the adjacent 

 carnivorous genera. Especial interest attaches to the present 

 distribution of some of the genera. Diastichus is the only one 

 which is extinct, so far as known, though its characters approach 

 those of existing genera so nearly, that it may be found at any 

 time in the recent fauna. 3Iylocyprinus has a living species in 

 China. Leucus is found in Europe and Asia. Myloleucus is 

 American, and is confined to tlie lakes of the Great Basin and 

 California ; two species occurring in Utah and two in Oregon. 

 Gliola is found in Norih America east of the Sierra Nevada. 

 Squalius is generally North American and European. 



MYLOCYPRINUS, Leidy. 



Proceedings Academy Phila., 1870, 70. Cope, Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Society, 1870, 

 643. Myloj)harifngodon Peters, Monatsberichte Berlin Academy, 1880, 925. 



I am acquainted with three species of this genus ; two extinct 

 from Idaho, and one, the Mylocyprinus aethiops Basilewsky, 

 {Mylopharyngodon Peters) recent, in China. The pharyngeal 

 bones of these species may be distinguished as follows. I know 

 those of the M. aethiops from a figure given by Prof. Peters. 



I. Teeth commencing near the symphisis; curvature of pha- 

 ryngeal very abrupt ; apex shorter than tooth-row ; 



3L injiexus. 



II. Teeth commencing at a distance from symphAsis, leaving a 



style; curvature gradual. 



Style and apex each shorter than tooth-row ; M. robustus. 



Style and apex each longer than tooth-row ; 31. sethiops. 



Mylocyprinns infiexus Cope, sp. nov. 



Established on two pharyngeal bones of the left side, one of 

 which indicates a fish of perhaps two pounds weight, and the other 

 one of half the size. Its form is peculiar in the xery abrupt curve 

 of the external border, the great abbreviation of the st3'le, and 

 the shortness of the tooth series. The proximal and distal ex- 

 tremities of the bone are connected across the concavity by a thin 

 expansion of the inner border, not seen in 31. robustus. The first 

 tooth is small, but larger than the corresponding one sometimes 

 seen in 31. robustus, so that I would be inclined to think it a per- 

 manent character, were it not wanting from the smaller specimen. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 155 



The second tooth is broadly molar. Two foramina perhaps indi- 

 cate the position of two teeth of an internal row. The toothless 

 apex of the bone is longer and flatter than in 31. robustus. The 

 entire bone is flatter than in that species. The first tooth stands 

 on the edge of the symphysis. 



Measurements. m. 



Total length on tooth row, •025 



Length of base of tooth row, .... "018 



Length of apex, '016 



Width at middle, '018 



Near Sinker's Creek, Idaho. J. L. Wortman. 



Mylooyprinus robustus Leidy. Loc. cit. Report U. S. Geol. Survey Terrs., i, p 

 262, PI. XVII, figs, 11-17. 



This is the most abundant fish of the Idaho beds, and is repre- 

 sented by a great many pharyngeal bones with teeth, in my col- 

 lection. These present a great many variations, and I have 

 proposed in a former paper to recognize three species : 31. kingi, 

 31. robustus and 31. longidens. Study of my material shows that 

 these forms intergrade, and that if they represent distinct species, 

 two others must be admitted. I incline to look upon the diflfer- 

 ences as due in part to age, and in part as subspecific variations. 

 I tabulate them as follows : 



I. Small ; style more- slender, five teeth in outer row, the 

 upper very small and subprehensile ; tlie lower small, 

 conic. 

 II. Like the last, but the style stouter. 



III. Like I, but only four teeth ; the inferior tooth wanting. 



IV. Like I, but four teeth; the superior larger and obtuse; 



31. longidens. 



Y. Larger ; four teeth, the last obtuse but much smaller than 



the others ; style stout; 3L robustus. 



YI. Larger; style stout; four teeth, the superior nearly as 



large as the others, which are equal ; 31. kingi. 



The slenderness or stoutness of style is not coincident with the 



other characters, but the latter condition is always found in large 



specimens. In these the convex border is also much thickened. 



The small, partly hooked form of the superior tooth is only found 



in small fishes, and is probably a character of youth. It indicates 



that the genus is descended from more purely carnivorous types. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



The minute first tooth is generally found in small specimens, but 

 not always. It lingers in some to middle size. This species has 

 not been found in the Oregon basin. The settlers call the 

 pharyngeal bones " bab3'-jaTvs." 



LEUCUS Heckel. 

 Fische Syriens, 184.3, p. 48. Anchi/hopsis Cope, Proceed. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1870, 



p. 543. 

 Leucus latUS Cope. Ancliyhopsis latus Cope, I. c. 



Much the largest species of the genus, as yet only represented 

 by two phaiyngeal bones of opposite sides. Southern Idaho. 

 Leucus condonianus Cope, sp. nov. 



This fish is represented by four pharyngeal bones, two of each 

 side, which have the dental formula 2'5-5*2 ; the presence of the 

 two inner teeth being doubtful on one of those of the right side. 

 They indicate a smaller fish than the L. altarcus, and one about 

 the size of the Geratichthys biguttatus. The teeth display but little 

 grinding surface, and have swollen subconic crowns, which are 

 less expanded trans verselj'^ than those of the L. altarcus. The 

 stjle is moderatel}^ long and not much recurved. The external 

 aliform border is rather full, and expands gradually' from the 

 st3'le, not abruptlj'^, as in L. altarcus. It is especially full oppo- 

 site the superior extremity of the tooth series, where it is con- 

 tracted in L. latus. 



Measurements of Medium Size. m. 



Length on tooth line, "014 



Length of tootli line, '007 



Length of apex from tooth line, .... •005 



Width at middle, -005 



Dedicated to Professor Thos. Condon, of Eugene, Oregon, who 

 first discovered and explored in part, the fossiliferous formations 

 of the Oregon and Idaho basins. 



SQUALITJS Bonap. 

 Jordan emend. PtycJiochilws Aga,ss. Clinoslomus GiraTd. Oligobelua Co'pe, Vroeeeds. 

 Amer. Philosoph. Soc, 1870, p. 540. 



The American species generally difier from the t3'pe in the 

 reduced number of teeth in the right pharj-ngeal series. The 

 dental formula is 2*5-4*2, in our extinct and recent species. In 

 the pliocene species here noticed, the .teeth have acute, slightly 

 incurved, apices. They differ from each other as follows : 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



I. Inner face just above superior tootli much narrower than 

 anterior or posterior faces. 



a. An external marginal expansion. 

 Width at fourth tooth equal length of bases of superior three 

 teeth ; an external bevel below first tooth ; large ; S. j^osticus. 

 Width at fourth tooth considerably less than length of bases of 

 superior three teeth ; a bevel below base of first tooth causing 

 ala to be more distinct ; large ; S. laminatus. 



Ala not projecting ; width less than length of bases of superior 

 three teeth ; no bevel below first tooth ; smaller ; S. reddingi. 

 aa. No external ala. 

 Bone very narrow ; teeth spaced ; larger ; S. bairdi. 



II. Inner face just above superior tooth deep, equaling anterior 

 and posterior faces. 

 No external ala ; bone narrow ; S. arciferiis. 



Squalins posticus Cope. Semotilas posticus Cope, Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Society, 

 1870, p. 541. 



The original specimen is from Idaho. Only a fragment of two 

 others are known. 

 Squalius laminatus Cope. Oligohelus laminatus Cope, loc, cit., 1870, p. o-tl. 



Originally founded on a single fragmentary pharj-ngeal bone. 

 A complete right-hand bone with all the teeth, found by Mr. 

 Wortman, shows that this is as large a species as the G. podica^ 

 but of more slender proportions. 

 Squalius reddingi Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is founded on phaiyngeal bones of individuals of 

 smaller size than those which represent the others mentioned in 

 this list. They represent a fish of the average dimensions of the 

 Fogonichthys insequilobus of California. The five teeth occupy 

 as much length as the style, and the apex is as long as the bases 

 of four teeth and an interspace. The apex is flat, and its inner 

 face is convex, and as deep at the base as one-half the width. The 

 external alar expansion is slight but distinct, and originates 

 opposite the third tooth from below. The style is not recurved. 



3Ieasurevie) 

 Length on tooth series. 

 Length of tooth series, 

 Length of apex from teeth, 

 Width of bone at middle, . 



nts. M. 



•026 

 •012 



•on 



•005 




]58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



One right and two left pharyngeal bones of this species were 

 found by Mr, Wortman in Southern Idaho. It is named for my 

 friend, the late Mr. B. B. Redding of San Francisco, Vice-President 

 of the California Academy of Sciences. 

 Squalius bairdi Cope. Semotilus hairdi Cope, loc. cit., p. 542. 



This species was established on a right pharj'ngeal bone which 

 supported four teeth in the principal row. My original reference 

 of it to the genus Semotilus^ was based on supposition that the 

 left pharyngeal bone would be found to support five teeth in the 

 principal row. This is shown to be the case by such a bone 

 discovered by Mr. Wortman. It belonged to a smaller individual 

 than the t3'pical one, and shows the very narrow basis of a 

 probably'- shorter style than those seen in the other species here 

 mentioned. 

 Squalius arciferus Cope. Oliijohelua arci/erus Cope, loc. cit., p. 541. 



The most robust species, represented by parts of two pharyn- 

 geal bones. 



DIASTICHUS Cope. 



Proceedings Amer. Philos. Society, 1870, p. 539. 



An entire pharyngeal bone of the topical species of this genus 

 has five teeth in a single series. The opposite bone of another 

 species presents also five teeth, so that the formula is probably 

 5-5. The teeth are compressed and short, and somewhat expanded 

 transversely to the direction of the bone. They display an 

 oblique grinding surface on use. They might then be referred to 

 the genus Leucus, but the apical branch of the bone is much 

 more elongate and is truncate at the extremity. This character 

 is best seen in D. macrodon^ where there appears to have been a 

 superior as well as an infei'ior symphysis. The direction of the 

 tooth series is at right-angles to this apical portion, as in other 

 genera. 

 Diastichus macrodon Cope. Loc. cit., p. 539. 



A specimen of pharyngeal bone, found by M. Wortman, is not 

 more than half the linear dimensions of those obtained by Mr. 

 King from the same part of Idaho. 

 Diastichus parvidens Cope. Loc. cit., p. 540. 



No additional material. 

 Diastichus strangulatus sp. nov. 



Represented by two pharjoigeal bones from Southern Idaho. 




1883,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



One of these lacks the style, and the other the apical portion. 

 The species differs from the D. macrodon in the flatter apical ramus, 

 which is devoid of the marginal tuberosity and distal recurvature, 

 seen in that species. It is straight and forms an acute angle with 

 the axis of the tooth series. The style is short, stout, and some- 

 what recurved. The marginal ala is rather abruptly given off oppo- 

 site the second tooth from below. The necks of the pharyngeal 

 teeth are contracted, so that the internal and external outlines of 

 the crown are convex. The grinding surface is quite oblique. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of tooth line . "014 



. -013 

 . -010 

 . -005 

 fish. From Southern 



Length of apical ramus, 

 Width of bone at middle. 

 Width of crown of tooth, 



This species was about the size of the gold 

 Idaho, J. L. Wortman. 



CATOSTOMID^. 

 Catostomus shoshonensis sp. nov. 



Of this fish I have two crania from the Idaho basin, one 

 obtained bj' Mr. Wortman and the other by Mr. Clarence King. 

 Two other crania, collected b}' the same gentlemen, represent a 

 variet}', or possibl}- another species. 



The bones of the skull are relatively more elongate than those 

 of the C. labialus. The width of the superior surface of the 

 parietal bones between the lateral angles is equal to two-thirds 

 the length of the superior surface of the ethmoid bone posterior 

 to the base of its anterior spine. The two measurements are 

 equal in the G. labiatus. The ethmoicf has three median longi- 

 tudinal concavities and raised borders in the G. shoshonensis, but 

 is regularl}" convex in the G. labiatus. The temporal fossa is 

 separated b}' a narrow raised band from the pterotic fossa in the 

 former, but by a very wide band in the latter. The suprateraporal 

 crests are not raised and sink gradually to the level opposite the 

 posterior part of the supraorbital border. There is a slight 

 median frontal keel which extends forwards from the same point. 

 The frontoparietal fontanelle is well defined, elongate, and rather 

 narrow. It commences at the base of the supraoccipital spine 

 and extends to opposite the anterior foramen of the postfrontal 

 bone. The bones of the skull are smooth. 




160 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



Measurements. m. 



Length from apex of epiotic to end of ethmoid 



spine, inclusive, ....... 'OtS 



Length of ethmoid without spine (median), . . '018 

 Length of frontal bone (median), .... -030 



Length of parietal (median), .... '0105 



Interorbital width, -028 



Width at pterotics, -040 



Width between apices of epiotics, . . . . "0245 

 Width of parasphenoid at middle of orbits, . . '0070 

 Diameter (long) of h^^omandibular cotylus of 



pterotic, -0070. 



The above measurements equal those of the largest size of the 

 Catostonivs teres of our waters. It will be desirable to compare 

 its skull with that of C. macrochilus Gird., which comes from the 

 Columbia River. Girard says that it is of more elongate propor- 

 tions than that of the G. labiatus. 

 Catostomus cristatus sp. hjy. 



This species is known to me from a skull, of which only the 

 cranium posterior to the anterior orbital region remains. It 

 belongs to the same elongate type as the G. reddingi, and differs 

 from that species as follows : — 



The lateral casts of the frontal bone are more elevated, and are 

 carried farther forwards. Instead of gradually disappearing 

 anteriorly, they descend abruptly to their termination, enclosing 

 a groove with the supraorbital plate of the frontal. The fonta- 

 nelle is wide, and extends farther into the frontal bone. The low 

 median frontal ridge commences at its anterior border. The bridge 

 between the temporal and pterotic fossae is narrow. There is a 

 transverse ridge on each half of the supraoccipital bone ; in G. 

 reddingi this ridge is oblique, descending towards the middle line. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of parietal bone (median), . . . '014 



Length of frontoparietal fontanelle, . . . '023 



Width at pterotics, ...... "046 



Width between frontal crests at anterior extremi- 

 ties, -014 



Width between apices of epiotics, . . . '024 



Diameter (long) of hyomandibular cotylus, . . '008 

 Found by J. L. Wortman in S. W, Idaho. One specimen only. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



COBITIDJE. 



A species of this family left remains in the Idaho Lake basin. 

 I have reached this conclusion bv the discovery, among the speci- 

 mens submitted to me b}^ the Smithsonian Institution, of the 

 inferior element of the three modified anterior vertebrfe,' which 

 are so characteristic of certain families of the Physostomous 

 fishes. This portion, moreover, is that which occupies the posi- 

 tion among the Cobitidfe only. Among them, it consists of a 

 longitudinal plate terminating posteriorly in a bladder-like chamber 

 on each side, each of which is closed below b}' a transverse pro- 

 cess of the inferior plate ; an angular fissure extends around the 

 ends of these, and at the angle sends a short continuation 

 upwards. This is quite similar to what is observed in Cobifis. 



This occurrence of Cohitidse is, perhaps, the most interesting 

 fact bi'ought to light by the examination of these extinct fishes. 

 All of the numerous existing species of this family are found in 

 the Eastern Hemisphere, and the great majority in tropical Asia, 

 a few only occurring in Europe and South Africa. Extinct 

 species are found in the miocene of Oeningen. We have then, in 

 this form, another example of the occurrence of Asiatic types in 

 North America prior to the glacial epoch ; and as in a fresh-water 

 fish, more strongly demonstrative of continuity of territory of 

 the two continents, than can be with any other type of animal. 



SALMONID^. 



EHABDOFARIO Cope. 



Proceeds. Ainer. Philosoph. Society, Nov., 1870. 



A genus represented by skulls, in which the maxillary bone is 

 C3^1indrical and rod-like, thus differing from Salmo. 

 Ehabdofario lacustris Cope, 1. c. 



A species with a head as large as that of the Salmo solar ^ which 



was not uncommon in the Idaho Lake. In addition to the type 



obtained b}' Mr. King, Mr. Wortman found parts of several 



individuals. 



SILURID^. 



AMIUKUS Raf. 

 1 Aminrus sp. 



Represented by pectoral spines. These do not differ from those 

 of some recent species, but differ from those of the species of 



1 The pharyngeal bones referred to this family by me as above cited, 

 belong to the Cyprinidse in the restricted sense. See genus Diastichus. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Bhineastes from our eocene beds, except perhaps the R. arcuatus, 

 in the possession of but one row of teeth. The surface is delicately 

 striate. The anterior edge is smooth and acute, and the posterior 

 edge has two rows of serrae separated by the usual groove. 



COTTIDJE. 

 COTTUS L. 

 I refer to this genus four species from the Idaho beds. They 

 may belong to Uranidea, but as I can onl}^ identify them as 3'et 

 hy the preopercula, I cannot determine this point. The parts in 

 question are not rare, showing that this type was well represented 

 in this region. 



The preopercular bones are furnished with three or four acute 

 spines of no great length. In this they differ from the living 

 American species of Uranidea, which have only one or two spines, 

 excepting the U. spilota, which has (Jide Jordan) four spines, 

 three of which are inferior. The four species of the present col- 

 lection differ in their prominent features, as follows : — 

 a. Foramina on inner side of preoperculum. 

 Four spines ; angular spine directed backwards ; inferior ones 

 forwards ; smaller ; C. divaricatus. 



Angular spine directed backwards ; posterior inferior downwards ; 

 inner side with two faces separated b^- an angle ; larger ; 



C. pontifex. 

 aa. Foramina on the posterior edge of preopercle. 

 Angular spine directed backwards ; two strong similar inferior 

 spines turned forwards ; larger ; C. cryjototremus. 



aaa. No foramina. 

 Angular spine directed downwards ; inferior spines forwards ; the 

 anterior inferior flattened ; large ; C. hypoceras. 



Cottus divaricatus sp. nov. 



Represented by two preopercula. These indicate the smallest 

 of the four species, and one about equal to the C. richardsoni, 

 Ag. The preoperculum is flatter and thinner than in the other 

 species, and the foramina are all on the inner side of the branches. 

 These are : one large one above base of superior spine, one^small 

 one between bases of superior and angular spines, one do. between 

 bases of angular and posterior inferior, and one at anterior base 

 of posterior inferior. The two inferior spines are smaller than 

 the others, and are incurved. The superior posterior is the largest 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 163 



and is curved upwards, and compressed at the base. Both ex- 

 ternal and internal faces are flat. 



Measurements. m. 



Length from base of superior to base of exterior 



inferior spines, inclusive, ..... '008 

 Length of superior spine above, .... '003 

 From Willow Creek, Oregon. J, L. Wortman. 

 Cottus pontifez sp. nov. 



The preopercular bone of this species is robust, especially in 

 the transverse diameter. Instead of being flat as in G. divaricatus, 

 it presents two faces on the side which is perforated by foramina, 

 which are separated by a vertical angle. The anteroexterior face 

 is flat, while the posteroexternal is somewhat irregular. The 

 foramina which piei'ce it are larger than in any other species, 

 especially the one between the second and third spines. The 

 foramina communicate below the surface, the canal thus formed 

 being spanned by a narrow bridge from the base of each spine. 

 The opposite side of the preoperculum is a little concave, and 

 plane at the base of the spines. The bases of the superior and 

 the angular spines are closer together than in any other species, 

 being absolutely in contact. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of three upper spines on bases, inch, . "008 

 Length of joined bases of two upper spines, . -005 



It is not possible to be certain whether there is any anterior 

 inferior spine. One specimen was obtained by Mr. Wortman, 

 probably from Willow Creek, Oregon. 

 Cottus cryptotremus sp. nov. 



A larger species, very diflerent from the last, and nearer the G. 

 divaricatus. Three preopercula are in my collection. In all the 

 specimens the superior limb is broken off, so that it is impossible 

 to state the character of the superior spine. The angular spine 

 has a round section and is directed backwards, and in line with 

 the inferior border. The two inferior spines are at a little dis- 

 tance from its base, and are well developed, acute, and of equal 

 size. They are directed forwards and inwards. The external 

 face of the inferior limb is divided by a prominent obtuse angle 

 on its entire length. There is a small foramen at the posterior 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



base of each inferior spine, and a large one at the anterior ex- 

 tremit}' of the inferior branch, looking partially outwards. 



Measurements, m. 



Length of base of three inferior spines, iucl., . '0085 

 Length of inferior spines, inclusive, . . . '0055 

 Length of anterior inferior spines, . . . '0045 

 Length of inferior branch of bone, . . . 0140 

 Discovered by Mr. J. L. Wortman, Castle Creek, Idaho. 

 Cottus hypoceras sp. nov. 



The preoperculum of this species differs widely' from those of 

 the three already described. Although it has four spines, they 

 are distributed differently', three being inferior and one posterior, 

 instead of two posterior and two inferior. The base of the pos- 

 terior spine is less compi'essed than in the others, and looks as 

 though the apex is directed posteriori}- instead of superiorly as in 

 C. divaricatus, and G. pontifex. It is opposite the inferior branch 

 instead of above it as in the species named. The angular spine is 

 round at the base ; the first inferior is compressed at the base, and 

 the anterior is compressed to the rounded apex, its superior edge 

 being acute, the inferior rounded. This spine therefore differs 

 from that of any of the other species. 



The external face is gently- rounded, and is smooth. The 

 internal face has the usual excavation with bordering rim, and is 

 roughened. There are no foramina except two above the base of 

 the anterior inferior spine. In size this species is about like the 

 C pontifex. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of base of four spines, inclusive, in a 



straight line, . . . . . . . 'Oil 



Length of bases of anterior two inferior spines 



inclusive, "007 



Length of angular spine, "004 



Elevation of vertical limb of preoperculum, . . "012 

 One specimen ; obtained by Mr. J. L. "Wortman, probably at 

 "Willow Creek, Oregon. 



PERCID^. 



The spines of the dorsal fin of a species of this family ai"e not 

 rare in the formation, but I have not yet been able to fix them 

 generically or specificall}'. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



165 



General Observations. 

 In the preceding pages there are described from the Idaho plio- 

 cene formation the following species 

 Percidae, 

 Cottidffi, 

 Salmonidae, . 

 Cyprinidse, . 

 Catostomidse, 

 Cobitidae. 

 Siluridse, 

 Raiidffi, 



Total, 22 species. 



Of the above, all differ from existing species so far as known, 

 but three of the species which represent the Percidae^ the Cohi- 

 tidse and the Siluridse respectivel}', have not been exactly deter- 

 mined. All the species differ from those of the Oregon Lake (or 

 Lake Lahontan as it may prove to be). Of the families, all are 

 existing and all are represented on the North American Continent 

 excepting the Cohitidse^ which are now confined to Eur-Asia. But 

 of these eight families four are not now found in the American 

 waters which empty into the Pacific Ocean, viz., the Percidse^ 

 Siluridse^ Cobitidae, and Raiidse, excepting that there is one 

 species of the Percida? in California. Five of the seven families 

 have not j^et been found in the Oregon fossil lake basin, but as 

 two of them (Salmonidae, Cottidae), are found in the existing 

 lakes of that region, they will probably be found in that deposit. 

 The above evidence is sufficient to prove that the Idaho pliocene 

 formation is distinct from an^- formation previously known. It 

 is older than the Oregon lake deposit. 



In addition to the fishes, three species of craw-fishes were dis- 

 covered in this formation by Capt. Clarence King. These I 

 named Astacus subgrundialis. A. chenoderma, and A. hremfor- 

 ceps} The mollusks of this formation have been described by F. 

 B. Meek, and they, like the fishes, determined it to be lacustrine 

 and fresh, as already stated by Prof. Newberry. The species are 

 stated by Meek^ to be distinct specifically, and in some cases 



^ Proceedings Amer. Fhllos. Society, 1870, p. 605. 

 * Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1870, 56. 



Loc. cit., Nov. 1870. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



generically, from all others hitherto described from the West. 

 Leidy observes,^ that mammalian remains received from Capt. 

 King's expedition include portions of Mastodon and Equus 

 exceisus. Mr. Wortman obtained teeth and bones of the latter, 

 and a cannon-bone of an undetermined ruminant of the size of 

 the Cervus elaphiis. The ungual phalange of an edentate allied 

 to Megalonyx was obtained from the same horizon and locality. 

 The map of the adjacent parts of Oregon, Nevada and California, 

 showing the lakes, is copied from the map issued by the War 

 Departij-.ent of tlie United States, Brig. Gen. A. A. Humphreys, 

 Chief of Engineers. 



' L. c, 1870, 67. On Cretaceous and Tertiary Reptilia and Fishes, by 

 Prof. E. D. Cope, November, 1870. 




?" 



y_ 



^^-IL^^-^^^A'TW J 



)>^ 





Itams. 





\yihnlL 



ZrodSuki 



A3^ 



W CtnnpHarian£aae 



i'i n 













oirerLakt 



:/JipeSj-\i 



r-^r.; 







^r'.: 



c^-" 



//^' 








168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



July 3. 

 Prof. Edw. D. Cope in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Hydrobiinoid Gastero- 

 pod from the mountain lakes of the Sierra Nevada, with remarlvs 

 on allied species and the physiographical features of said region," 

 b}' R. E. C. Stearns, was presented for publication. 



The death of Isaac T. Coates, a member, was announced. 



On some Fossils of the Puerco Formation. — Prof. Cope stated 

 that he had recently received from the Puerco beds of New Mexico 

 remains of a number of individuals of the extinct mammal he 

 had named Periptychus ditrigonus} Besides jaws and teeth with 

 permanent and temporarj^ dentition in good preservation, the 

 pelvis, femur and tibia are included in the specimens. These 

 show that the species must be referred to the genus Gonoryctes 

 Cope, and render it ver}^ probable that the genus belongs to the 

 family of the Periptychidae. The absence of ungual phalanges 

 preverts absolute certainty. The genus is near Periptychus, but 

 differs in the one root and simple conic crown of the second true 

 molar in both jaws, and the presence of cingular cusps of the 

 superior molars, exterior to the external tubercles. Gonoryctes 

 ditrigonus has the molars of both jaws larger than those of the 

 G. comma, and there is less difference in size between the posterior 

 and anterior teeth than in that species. 



The following new species accompanied the above : 



Periptychus coarctatus. This species represented by teeth 

 of the lower jaw, viz.: one incisor, three premolars, and two 

 molars, two of the latter imperfect. The characters of the species 

 are well marked in the premolar and molar teeth. The former 

 lack the anterior and internal ledges of the P. carinidens and P. 

 rhabdodon, having only a prominent ledge-shaped heel, besides 

 the principal conical cusp. The true molars lack the small 

 tubercle which is between the pair of threes which compose the 

 crown. The adjacent cusps of the threes are connected by low 

 longitudinal ridges instead of oblique ones. The cusps themselves 

 are closer together than in the other species, especially those of 

 the anterior three, which are closely approximated. The anterior 

 one is small and low. The enamel is grooved as in the other 

 species. 



Diameters of crown of fourth premolar: anteroposterior, -0115 ; 

 transverse, -0115 ; elevation ^worn),-010. Diameters of crown 



1 Proc. American Pbilos. Society, 1882, p. 465. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



of second true molar: anteroposterior. -Oil; transverse, -009. 

 From the Lower Puerco beds. D.Baldwin. 



Pantolambda cavirictus sp. nov. Represented bv a nearly- 

 entire mandibular ramus with all the teeth represented excepting 

 the crowns of the incisors. The characters are seen, first in the 

 larf^e size, the teeth having twice the linear dimensions of those 

 of "the P. balhmodon ; ami second, in the lateral prominence of 

 the inferior edge of the ramus, which produces a concavity of the 

 side of the jaw posterior to the canine teeth. It is the largest 

 mammal known from the Puerco formation. 



The inferior canines are strongly curved, so that the crown is 

 directed upwards and a little backwards. Both root and crown 

 have a round section, but the apex of the crown cannot be de- 

 scribed, as it is greatly worn by use in the specimen. The 

 incisive border is regularlv convex, and the three incisors are not 

 of large size, the first being least, and the third largest. The pre- 

 molars and molars have the form of those of the P. bathmodon. The 

 latter present two Y's, the anterior narrower and more elevated. 

 In the former the posterior Y is represented by a short crest. 

 The last molar is produced into a heel, which supports the pos- 

 terior branch of the posterior Y, and no cusp. The first premolar 

 is one-rooted, and is separated from the second premolar by a 

 moderate diastema. The svmphysis is not long, is regularly 

 curved upwards, and has a flat inferoanterior face. The canine 

 alveoli create a marked prominence on each side. 



Measurements.— YyQ\)th of ramus at diastema, m. -040 ; do. at 

 third premolar, -056 ; width of ramus below third premolar, -021 ; 

 lencrth of bases of three incisors, -023 ; diameters of canine at 

 base: anteroposterior, -018; transverse, '018; diameters third 

 premolar: anteroposterior, -012 ; transverse, 'Oil ; diameters first 

 true molar: anteroposterior, -07 T ; transverse, -014; diameters 

 third true molar: anteroposterior, -022; transverse, -014. 



The jaw of this species is about the length of that of a large 

 tapir, but is deeper and more robust. The flare of the inferior 

 edo-e in front is su<T<yestive of the structure seen in the Dinocerata, 

 and of the probabilitv that the Taligrada (to which Pantolavihda 

 beloncrs) are the ancestors of that suborder as well as of the Pan- 

 todonta. The flare is related to the flange of LintaCheriiim, 

 exactly as the similar ridge in Nimravus is to the flange in Ma- 



oil S£7*0fl II S 



Zetodo'n gracilis, gen. et sp. nov. Char. (?en.— This genus 

 and species are founded on a broken lower jaw which contains the 

 second and part of the first true molars, and the fourth premolar. 

 The teeth are of very peculiar character. True molars consisting 

 of narrow crescents in two pairs, which are bqjih concave towards 

 each other, embracing a fossa. The posterior crescents soon 

 unite on attrition, closing the fossa, while the anterior are wel sep- 

 arated , and only unite b v their anterior apices. Each molar has a 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



small columnar heel. Fourth premolar with the posterior pair of 

 crescents onl}-, which soon unite. The anterior pair is repre- 

 sented by a part of the external one, which forms a narrow lobe. 

 The heel is larger than in the true molar. 



The position of this genus it is impossible to determine from 

 the specimens in my possession. It may be Marsupial or Con- 

 dylarthrous, and if the latter, one of the Meniscolheriidse ; but if 

 not of these groups, its position is not likel}' to be in an}' known 

 order of the tertiary periods. 



Char. Specif. — Crowns compressed, deeply grooved at the points 

 of junction of the crescents. This is effected by a narrow 

 lamina from the anterior inner to the posterior outer ; the 

 anterior outer being free ix)steriorl3', excepting after considerable 

 wear. A groove on the external side of the crown distinguishes 

 the heel, which sinks into the crown below. It is larger on the 

 first than on the second molar. The heel of the fourth, premolar 

 is elevated on its posterior edge. No cingula except a weak one 

 at the exterior base of the posterior lobe of the true molars, and 

 j*t the anterior base of the anterior lobe of the fourtli premolar. 

 Ramus compressed ; but little of it preserved. Diameters of p. 

 m. iv. : anteroposterior, -0055 ; transverse, -0020 ; of second true 

 molar: anteroposterior, -0045 ; transverse, -002. From the lower 

 red bed of the Upper Puerco epoch. D. Baldwin discoverer. 



July 10. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty -eight pei-sons present. 



A paper entitled " Preliminary Observations on the Brain of 

 Amphiuma," by Henry F. Osborn, was presented for publication. 



July IT. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Sixty-two persons present. 



July 24. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



July 31. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrniA, HI 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW HYDROBIINOID GASTEEOPOD FEOM THE MOUN- 

 TAIN LAZES OF THE SIEBEA NEVADA, WITH REMARKS ON ALLIED 

 SPECIES AND THE PHYSIOGEAPHICAL FEATURES OF SAID REGION 



BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS. 



The interesting form herein described was first In'onght to my 

 notice through the kindness of Mr. Xenos Clark, son of tlie 

 lamented Prof. Henry James Clark, in 18T9. Owing to ill-health 

 and other causes, it has remained nndescribed until this time. 

 Recently I have been stimulated to inquire into its characters and 

 relationship, by the reception of a letter and further specimens 

 from Prof. R. Ellsworth Call, who, while believing it to be nude- 

 scribed, thought possibly it had been made known by some of our 

 West Coast naturalists, and wrote to me for information. 



While it appears to have certain analogies with Lioplax of the 

 Yiviparid<Te on the one side (see L. suhcarinata Sa}-), and with 

 the Strepomatidae (see the carinat^d Goniobases like G. toridom ' 

 Anthon}'), on the other, yet the sum of its characters, inclusive 

 of faunal and geographical relationship, seems to me to point 

 rather in the direction cf the fresh-water Rissoids. The late Dr. 

 Stimpson's genus Tryonia applies only to shells with a " surfact; 

 longitudinally ribbed or plicated,"' as distinct from the usual 

 smooth-surfaced sliells of the various groups embraced in his 

 '• Researches, etc." - He includes, however, the little group 

 Pi/rgida of Cristoforo and Jan, and arranges it directly precediuir 

 Tryonia^ which my judgment confirms as being its proper place. 



Woodward^ included this genus (Pyrgula) in his synonymy of 

 Jlelania ; he also placed Aninicola as a snbgenus of the foregoing:. 

 H. and A. Adams * place Pyrgula with the Melanians, but Anini- 

 cola is grouped by them with the Rissoidoe. They further include 



1 L. and F. W. Shells of N. A. Part IV, p. 229, S. T. Miss. Coll., 25:J. 



See also Meek and Haydeu's Tertiary Goniobasis temticarinata, Proe. 



Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1857, p. 124, and G. nebrascensis, id., 1856, p. 124. 



.Also Wheeler's Report. Palaeontology, vol. iv, and Hayden's Inv. Paigeou- 



tology, vol. ix. 



^ Researches upon the Eydvobiiuie and allied forms. Smiths'u Misc. 

 Coll., 201. 



■ Recent and Fossil Shells, 2d ed., pp. 240, 247. 

 ' Adams' Genera, pp. 30!>-30^, vol. i. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



the genus Tricula of Benson with the Melaniidie, an arrangement 

 which has been followed by Chenu.^ 



Benson's Ti^icula is based upon a small fluviatile form which 

 the Adams saj^ " somewhat resembles PaYu^Zomus; * * * * 

 the only species known is an inhabitant of the River Kamaan in 

 India." The specific name montana implies a station similar to 

 those inhabited 1)y the various species of Pyrgula herein quoted. 

 The figure of Tricula as given by the Adams and Chenu, together 

 Avith the totality of testimonj^ furnished by said authors, leads me 

 to suspect that the Indian species should be removed from the 

 Melaniidoe to the Hydrobiinoe and near to Pyrgula. 



It is not without some little hesitation that I place the Sierra 

 Xevada shell in the genus Pyrgula. Its principal characteristics, 

 however, indicate said group as well as the environmental features. 

 Stimpson's generic description of Tryonia applies only to shells 

 longitudinally sculptured ('• ribbed or plicated "), a too restricted 

 limitation for a generic standard in this case, because if literall}' 

 applied it would exclude ninet3--five per cent, of the individuals 

 which form the mass of which Stimpson's - species is but a rare 

 varietal aspect. Upon this point he wrote : " In company with 

 the Tryonioe, Mr. Blake found a small cancellated shell, which has 

 been described as Melania exigua by Conrad, and as Amnicola 

 protea by Gould. In view of the character of the surface, I think 

 it scarceh' possible that this species can belong to the Hydrobiina?. 

 It will, perhaps, be found to be allied to Bittium. The occurrence 

 of this marine or brackish-water genus in the Desert would not 

 be surprising, since Gnathodon was found in the same basin at a 

 point somewhat nearer the Gulf." It is quite evident to m}- mind 

 that Stimpson could not have had a very large number of specimens 

 as they are usually found ; if so, they would have included not 

 only his T. clathrata, as well as Conrad's and Gould's types, but 

 intermediate and connecting varieties, sufficient to have caused 

 him to expand his generic diagnosis, and either to have made him 

 hesitate before investing the variety before him with specific 

 dignity, or else to have included Conrad's and Gould's forms as 

 species of Tryonia. He was not aware of the countless millions 

 of these tiny shells, that are scattered over a vast area, or of the 

 depth of the fresh-water sedimentai}' deposit throughout which 



1 Manuel de Conchyliologie, etc., p. 294, vol. i. 



2 Researches, etc., etc., id., p. 48, et »eq. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELnilA. 173 



they are distributed. At Walter's Station, on the Southern Pacific 

 Kailroad, the perpendicular section exhibited b3- the digging of a 

 well to the depth of fortj'-seven feet, contained these shells from 

 the surface of the desert to the bottom of the -n-ell.' Again, in 

 suggesting relations between Conrad's and Gould's forms with 

 Bittium, a genus belonging to the brackish-water division or sub- 

 famil}' (Potamidiuge) of the Cerithiidae, he seems to have overlooked 

 the fact that the longitudinally plicated sculpture of his species is 

 a character common also to the brackish-water genus Cerithidea, 

 which belongs as well as Bittium to the Potamidinie.- 



Had Stimpson's generic definition of Tryonia been more ample 

 I should have been tempted to have given the shell herein dis- 

 cussed a place in said group rather than Pyrgula, which latter, as 

 figured by the Adams and Chenu, shows an angular temiination 

 to the aperture at the base of the columella, indicative of a more 

 pronounced feature in the soft parts (siphonal) at this point than 

 the rounded aperture of Tryonia and Tricula (as figured), and 

 the form before me presents. This, however, is a somewhat vari- 

 able feature as between individuals of the same species, and still 

 more so between forms of one species as compared with forms of 

 another. 



With the concurrence of Prof. Call. I have described the shells 

 received from him and Mr. Clark as follows : 



Genus PYRGTJLA Cristoforo and Jan. 

 Pyrgnla Nevadensis, n. s. 



Shell small, elongated, ovate-conic, turreted; number of whorls 

 five to six (5-6), with a conspicuous keel following 

 spirally the periphery of each and terminating near 

 the middle of the outer edge of the continuous peri- 

 treme, which is otherwise simple, ovate and slightly 

 effuse, and appressed (to the whorl ) above; in some 

 specimens somewhat produced on its inner side and 

 suggesting a faint umbilicus. Shell white or nearly 

 so ; smooth and gloss}-, with a slight epidermis on 



' For further information on this point, see my remarks on the "Fossil 

 Shells from the Colorado Desert," iu Am. Naturalist, March, 1879. 



- The connection of the marine Cerithiidse with the fresh-water Melaniidae 

 through the brackish-water Potamidinse, seems natural and logical . In this 

 connection the remarks of Swainson in his "Treatise on Malacology," are 

 well worth perusing. 




1T4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1SS3. 



some specimens. Dimensions as follows, being the measurement 

 of ten (10) specimens, all adult : 



Longitude -14, Latitude -08 inch. 



The mean of the above measurements is eighteen-hundredths of 

 an inch in length b}' ninety-six-thousandths of an inch in breadth, 

 or ver}' nearly two to one. The largest specimen measured -23 

 by -13 inch. Aperture about one-third the length of the shell, 

 being as forty-one to one hundred and twenty (tV(j)- ^^ the 

 sixteen specimens examined ^ nine are from Pyramid Lake (Clark), 

 and aeven from Walker's Lake (Call). 



The Pyramid Lake lot, from Mr. Clark, were accompanied by 

 specimens of the flat-spired form of Pompholyx effusa^ to which 

 Dr. Dall has given the name of " var. soliday ^ 



The several specimens of Pyrgula Nevadensis exhibit similar 

 differentiation as Tryonia in size of mouth, variability in coil, 

 robustness or attenuation ; and many of the specimens from the 

 alkaline deposit of the lake bottom are discolored, varying from 

 light ashen slate to dark slate, approaching black. 



In connection with the above, I have to thank Professor Call 

 for the following notes : 



•' I have it as collected by the \]. S. Geological SurA-ej- the past 



' Subsequently thirty-two si)ecimeiis, adolescent and mature, from the 

 dredging "(1) " Pyramid Lake ; and about the same number, young and 

 adult, from "(2)"' North Shore, Pyramid Lake, were received from Prof. 

 Call aud examined with care. 



- Annals of Lyceum of Xat. History of N. Y., March, 1870, p. 334. 

 The locality here given, through some misapprehension, is "Clear Lake," 

 which is in California; it should read "White Pine, Eastern Nevada. ' 

 Drill, in Science, vol. i, No. 7, page 202 (March 23, 1883), refers to the 

 occurreuce of Pompholyx effum in a calcareous deposit in Pyramid Lake, 

 and remarks on its variations. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THrLADELPHIA. 115 



summer. Where known, I give the name of the collector as 

 authority for localit}'. (1) From dredgings of Pyramid Lake 

 bottom; Russell (I. C); August 30, 1882. (2) North side of 

 Pyramid Lake, Nevada; Bussell (L C). (3) In tufa, shore of 

 Walker's Lake, Nevada ; Russell (I. C), and also loose. This is 

 the locality represented b}' the shells sent to 3'ou. 



" P\-ramid Lake,^ although it receives the fresh water of the 

 Truckee River, the outlet of that gem of lakes, Tahoe, is very 

 strongly alkaline^ and the water is not good for human use, 

 although it can be used for a short period without much incon- 

 venience." 



The elevation of Pyramid Lake is 4890 feet, as stated in 

 Gannett's^ List, etc., and Walker's Lake, according to the same 

 authority, has an altitude of 3840 feet. The water of this lake 

 is probably similar to that of Pyramid ; it is brackish, as I have 

 been informed by Prof. Joseph LeConte. 



These lakes are the remnants of the great tertiary lake which 

 covered this general region, and are the pockets or deeper 

 depressions in the floor of the ancient lake ; the bitterness of 

 their waters being the result of the accumulated alkaline and 

 saline sediments, or dregs, of centuries. 



Assuming that I have placed the above form in its proper 

 position, much greater interest attaches to it than that of the 

 addition of a new species to the fauna of the general region 

 within which it is found, or that of adding a peculiar t\-pe to the 

 living molluscan fauna of the North American continent. 



The species of Pyrgula hei-etofore described,^ are the tj-pe, P. 

 helvefica, from Switzerland; P.bicarinata, France; P. pyi-enaica, 

 from the Pyrenees ; and P. andicola, from the Andes of Bolivia. 



Its distribution hitherto, it will be seen, is Europe and South 

 America ; inhabiting, as Stimpson observed, " fresh waters in 

 mountainous regions," and as he further remarked, " It is inter- 

 esting to notice that all the species of the genus as yet described 

 are severally reported to occur in mountainous districts ; an 

 instance of correlation of form to external conditions." 



' Lieut. Symons, in Lieut. Wheeler's Report Geog. Survey, etc., 1S78, 

 p. 114. 



* U. S. Geol. Survey. Haydeu, Misc. Pub., No. 1. Founh EJ. 



^ Vide Stimpson, ibid. 




n6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 1883. J 



These facts tend to give this new species^ its chief importance, 

 and point to further interesting discoveries. 



Specimens of Pyrgula Nevadensis have been distributed to the 

 Museum of the Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. ; the U. S. National 

 Museum, Washington ; tlie Museums of the University of Cali- 

 fornia and California Acad, of Sciences; and are contained in the 

 cabinets of Professor A. E. Call and ra}- own. 



' Mr. John "Wolf has described P//r^ula scalar if ormis from the post- 

 pliocene of Tazewell, Illinois River. Vide Tryon, in Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., May 1, 1873. 





[-■ROC ACAD. NAT SCI. FHILADMB92 






1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 1:77 



PBELIMINAEY OBSEEVATIONS UPON THE BEAIN OF AMPHIUMA. 



BY HENRY F. OSBORN, SC. D. 



The North American Urodela, embracing a -wide variety of forms 

 which can readily be obtained, offer an attractive field for the 

 comparatiA^e study of the amphibian brain. The work upon the 

 subject hitherto has been chiefly in Germany, but many members 

 of this large group have barely been touched upon, so that a sys- 

 tematic research into the whole subject would form a valuable 

 contribution to Comparative Morphology. 



In the hope of extending my studj'^ later I have recently been 

 investigating the brain of Amphiuma,^ having procured a quantity 

 of live specimens from New Orleans. This paper contains a pre- 

 liminary account of this investigation. 



Among the more important studies upon the amphibian brain 

 are those of Wyman,^ Fischer,^ Stieda^ and Wilder.^ Stieda's 

 work is principally upon the microscopic structure of the brains 

 of the Frog and Axolotl ; Wilder, in his study of the Frog and 

 Menobranchus, has directed attention largely to parts of the brain 

 which have been less studied hitherto, namely to the cavities and 

 the thinner portions of the brain parietes surrounding them, as 

 well as to the brain membranes. I am indebted to the writings 

 of both of these authors for light upon this subject, although I 

 have not as yet so fully consulted either as I would like to do. 



In the general description the usual terminology of different 

 portions of the brain is employed, but in referring to the various 

 segments of the brain tube and to the ventricles they enclose I 

 largely employ the terms partly adopted and partlj^ introduced by 

 Wilder. His sj-stem of nomenclature, which is chiefly founded 

 upon the embryonic divisions of the brain, is admirably' clear and 



^ I employ this title as it is the family name {Amphiumidce), and is more 

 generally known, although Muroenopsis, the three-toed genus, is the one 

 which I studied. 



^ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Washington, 1853. 



* Amphibiorum Nudorum Neuroglia ; also, Auat. Abhandlungen iiber 

 die Perennibranchiaten und Derotremen. 



* Zeitschrift fiir wiss. Zoologie, Band xx, xxv. 



* Anatomical Technology, Wilder and Gage, 1883, 




1T8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



consistent, although objection^ ma}' be raised to the author's 

 means of indicating position and direction.^ 



M}' method of study was: (1) A careful examination of the 

 external features of the brain. (2) A series of ver}' thin transA-erse 

 and longitudinal sections of the. brain, the sections after staining 

 being carefully mounted in serial order. These series naturally 

 supplement each other and gi\'e a very accurate idea of the gross 

 and minute structure. 



The technical process of preparing the brains was as follows : 

 The}' were hardened, after removal from the skull, in a saturated 

 solution of bichromate of potash, the acid being subsequently 

 removed with alcohol of different densities. The brains were then 

 embedded in an egg-mass prepared by shaking the white and jolk 

 of egg together, with three drops of glycerine to each egg. This 

 mass was first stiffened around the brain by placing in a vapor of 

 alcohol, then hardened in absolute alcohol until ready for cutting. 

 Its advantages are that it closel}' embraces the brain, holding all 

 tlie parts together and becoming transparent in oil of cloves. 

 The section cutting was done with one of the large instruments 

 manufactured by Jung, of Heidelberg, which is far superior to 

 any other instrument of its kind now in use. 



External Structure. The brain of Amphiuma (Plate VIII, figs. 

 A and B) resembles that of Menopoma (figs. C and D) more 

 closely than that of an}' of the remaining Urodela. Its most 

 striking feature is that the component parts are, in the main, little 

 differ^entiated from each other, giving the exterior very much the 

 simple character of an embryonic brain. This is especially true 

 of the Di-, Mes- and Epencephala. The vertical longitudinal 

 section (fig. H) shows that the construction of the interior is 

 equally simple. The brain flexure is apparently slight. The 

 brain is also extremely small in proportion to the body, and has 

 a narrow, elongated form ; a remarkable feature is the diminutive 



' The following are some of the terms employed and their synonyms: 

 EMnencep?ialon, olfactory lobes ; ProsencepJialan, including the cerebral 

 hemispheres and their cavities {procrelia)\ DiencepJialon, including the 

 thalami optici, the infundibulum, the pineal gland, etc., and the dia- 

 calia or third ventricle; Mesencephalon, including the optic lobes, the 

 crura cerebri and mesoccelia or iter ; the valvuln, or valve of Vieussens ; 

 Epnicephalon or c&re\)Q\\\xm; Metencephalon, medulla oblongata, and roof 

 of fourth ventricle. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



size of the cerebellum. This general simplicit}- corresponds to 

 the partial blindness and to the degenerate structure and habits 

 of Amphiiuna. 



The Metencephalon is very broad and shallow, with its upper 

 surface divided longitudinall}- b}- a central and two slight lateral 

 furrows, and with its borders turning bluntl}' inwards anteriorly, 

 apparently to enter the cerebellum. On its lower surface the 

 medulla is divided by the central furrow, a continuation of the 

 anterior fissure of the spinal cord. As in other Amphibia, the 

 medulla passes without clear demarkation into the crura cerebri. 



The Epencephalon. The cerebellum is a narrow, band-like 

 structure, arching across the wide medulla. It is unusually small, 

 and was actually overhung bj' the optic lobe in my specimens, 

 so as not to be seen in the median line, although this point may 

 require confirmation. The valvula is therefore out of sight, in the 

 dorsal aspect of the brain, but maj- be seen in the longitudinal 

 sections. 



The Mesencephalon. The optic lobe has no longitudinal 

 furrow, but forms a single, narrow, unpaired body, passing 

 forward into the roof of the Diencephalon without demarkation. 

 Thes-s divisions of the brain cannot be distinguished upon the 

 dorsal surface, but can be seen in side view hy noting the position 

 of the infundibulum below. The Crura (pars peduncularis) form 

 a broad base for the posterior half of the Mesencephalon, which, 

 by an oversight, is not represented in the drawings. As the}- 

 pass forward, however, they cannot be distinguished from the 

 optic lobe nor from each other, so that this division of the brain 

 forms a cylindrical tube, the component parts of which can onl}' 

 be detected in the microscopic structure. 



The Diencephalon. The roof of this portion of the brain ter- 

 minates anteriorlj- in the large pineal gland ; its median surface is 

 marked, in Menopoma, by two circular thickenings which were 

 not noticed in Amphiuma. These ma}- correspond to several 

 structures in the brain roof, which are apparent in the sections. 

 The sides of the Diencephalon form the thalami, but the promi- 

 nent feature of this portion of the brain is the production of the 

 floor into the long, backward-directed infundibulum, which is best 

 seen in side view. At the base of this process is the large pitui- 

 tary' body. At the sides of the infundibulum are two thickenings 

 which converge to enter the thalami ; their relations are clearly 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



shown in the sections. In front of the infundibular region the 

 Dieneephalon as a whole becomes higher and narrower. There is 

 quite a space between the infundibulum and optic chiasma; the 

 latter has no clear decussation of fibres as in the frog ; on the other 

 hand, the nerves are given off as two slender fibres on either side 

 of a slightly raised whitish plate. 



The Prosencephalon. The cerebral hemispheres are ver}' long, 

 flattened-oval bodies, narrowing forwards ; they are in close 

 contact, but there is no structural union, except for a short 

 distance in front of the lamina terminalis. The Bhinencephala 

 arise from the outer anterior third of the hemispheres and give off 

 on tlie lower surface of the brain, the large olfactory nerves. 



Internal and Microscopic Structure. 



The internal structure of the brain, so far as studied, has many 

 interesting features, which may here be considered in connection 

 with the various divisions of the brain tube, concluding with 

 some observations upon the general distribution of the gray and 

 white matter. It must here be said that the minute histology has 

 not been so carefully studied as to aflTord conclusive data. 



Fig. H represents a longitudinal vertical section of the brain 

 of Amphiuma, magnified four diameters, the shaded portions 

 showing the gray or cellular matter. The vertical lines indicate, 

 approximately, the position of twelve of the thirteen transverse 

 sections which are figured. Fig. 9 passes through the anterior 

 commissure and the forward portion of the diacoelia, not quite 

 agreeing with any vertical line that could be drawn through fig. H. 

 Much enlarged longitudinal and transverse views of the cere- 

 bellum are given in E and F. Fig. G gives an imperfect idea 

 of some of the cells found in the crura. 



The Epencephalon is the only division of the brain which has 

 a complete investment of gray matter ; this statement needs the 

 reservation that the cells surrounding the cerel:)ellum may be of 

 epithelial origin, although this doubt is apparently disproved b}^ 

 the close similai'ity and continuity of their structure with those of 

 the optic lobe. If this be admitted, the cerebellum is composed 

 of three parts : (1) A continuous band of fibres arching from 

 side to side of the medulla. (2) A fine ]a3^er of fibres which 

 have an autero-posterior direction. (3) An investing laj-er of 

 cells one or two rows deep. These parts are represented in 

 fig. E, ft, a and c ; also in fig. F, 6 and c. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



(1) The transverse band of fibres (fig. 1) form the greater 

 part of the cerebellum ; they appear to arise from columns of 

 fibres in the lateral portions of the medulla, so that the}- 

 correspond partially to the inferior peduncles of the mammalian 

 cerebellum arising from the restiform bodies. (2) The fine layer 

 of fibres have a direction at right-angles to these, and are throe 

 or four deep, seeming to terminate in the lateral portions of the 

 cerebellum, in some cells h'ing between the cerebellum and the 

 optic lobe. This layer, owing to the peculiar position of the 

 cerebellum beneath the optic lobe, is dorsal to the main transverse 

 band ; if the cerebellum were turned backwards, this layer would 

 be A'entral to it. (3) The cells composing the cortex of the 

 cerebellum are of an elongated-oval shape, usually one row, in 

 some places two rows deep. Their greatest diameter is arranged 

 parallel to the main band of transverse fibres. Here, as in other 

 portions of the brain, it was difficult to ascertain whether or no 

 these cells were continued into fibre processes. Xo such processes 

 vrere discovered. 



The above account differs widely from that given by Stieda' of 

 the frog's cerebellum; although the latter is somewhat difficult to 

 understand owing to the lack of figures. 



The Mci^ence.phalon. Posteriorly, the mesoca?lia is broad and 

 low, and the brain tube has a subpj-ramidal section ; anteriorly, 

 it becomes more circular and is surrounded by a shield-shaped 

 mass of cells (figs. 2 and 3j, surrounded in turn by the mass of 

 longitudinal fibres, the whole constituting the optic lobe and 

 crura. According to Stieda,- the brain of axolotl has a similar 

 structure in this region. 



The Diencephalon is the most interesting division of the brain; 

 its deep but narrow cavity (diacfjelia) is filled with the large 

 choroid plexus ; it has a verj- thin roof and floor, but broad lower 

 sides. The infundihulum is formed b}- the thrusting downward 

 of the posterior portion of the floor. Its walls are much convo- 

 luted; they are composed chiefly of white matter, with here and 

 there a scattering of nerve-cells, which in some places form a 

 continuous layer. The base of the infundibulum is closely 

 reflected over the pituitary body as a thin lamina. Ti^ pituitary 

 body has therefore no communication with the brain cavit}-, as has 



^ Zeitschrift fiir wiss. Zcologie, Band xx. 

 "^ Same Journal, Band xxv. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



heen observed in some animals. It is composed of a solid 

 mass of granular cells, traversed b}' numerous blood-vessels, and 

 resembles in structure, although more compact, one of the ordi- 

 nary 13'mphatic glands. 



The lumen of the infimdibulum becomes narrower before it 

 communicates with the diacoelia, and the lateral walls become 

 thickened into two solid oval masses, largelj'- composed of nerve- 

 cells. These bodies resemble the lobi inferiores of the Teleosts, 

 and, according to Stieda,' correspond in position with the tuber 

 cinereum of the mammalia ; anteriorly they graduall}- converge 

 (figs. 4 and 5), finally entering the thalami. At this point the 

 diacoelia has a crucifoi*m shape, the lateral cavities separating the 

 tuber cinereum from the walls of the Diencephalon above. In 

 front of this is the thickening of the optic chiasma, and around 

 the upper portion of the ventricle is a row of compact cells which 

 resemble columnar epithelium. Anteriorl}- the latter flatten out, 

 covering a lateral expansion of the ventricle. Above this is a 

 small hollow sphere formed of a single layer of cells (fig. 7, x); 

 the meaning of this structure is not known, and no mention of it 

 has been found by the writer elsewhere. It corresponds in 

 position with the external markings noticed upon the dorsal 

 surface of the Menopoma brain at this point (see fig. C, Di. t.). 

 Immediately below this point is a transverse band of nerve-fibres 

 which probably belong to the optic chiasma. 



The roof of the Diencephalon is of irregular thickness; forward 

 it is carried as a ver\' thin lamina over the jyineal gland. The 

 structure of this body is nothing more than a rich plexus of blood- 

 vessels produced from the choroid ; in the apex are numerous fine 

 nuclei, resembling those of connective tissue, certainly not of 

 nerve-tissue. There is no evidence that the latter is present. 



It will thus be seen that the pineal lx)dy is a simple vascular 

 structure, properly speaking, in communication with the brain 

 cavity, since it is apparently surrounded by the brain parietes. 

 The pituitary' body, on the other hand, is a compact glandular 

 structure, not in apparent communication with the brain cavit}', 

 except by an improbable process of osmosis through the attached 

 cells. 



^ Stud, liber d. centrale Nervensystem d. Knochenfiscber. Zeit«. fur 

 wiss. Zoologie, Band xviii. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELnilA. 183 



The sections are imperfect in the forward portion of the root 

 of the Diencephalon (diatela) ; they do not show the postcommis- 

 sura, described hy Stieda and Wilder, The praecommissura^ has 

 its usual shape and position. 



The relations of the Diencephalon to the Prosencephalon are 

 shown in figs, Y, 8 and 9. Tlie procoelioe extend back int-o the 

 posterior sections of the hemispheres. Anterior to this the hemi- 

 spheres fuse with the thalami below, receiving from the upper 

 IDortion of the Diencephalon a conspicuous band of fibres (fig. 8, a). 

 The relations of the dia- to the proeoeliae are best obtained by 

 means of horizontal longitudinal sections ; these have not been 

 made as yet, so that the nature of these cavities is somewhat 

 doubtful. It appears that the procaline communicate with each 

 other some distance anterior to the lamina terminalis. 



The hemispheres have a great lateral extent, containing exten- 

 sive cavities. Their posterior halves are partly fused together ; 

 anteriorly," however, they are quite separate and distinct, becoming 

 more cylindrical in section in the region of the Rhinencephalon. 

 A peculiar feature of each procoelia is the formation of a short 

 superior median cornu (fig. 11, a); correspouding to this is an 

 extension of the gray matter lining the coslia to the cortex of the 

 hemisphere. Forwards the coeliae have a vertical and more in- 

 ternal position. The Rhinencepliala arise in masses of gray cells 

 in the anterior third of the lateral portions of the hemispheres ; 

 they do not contain an}' cavitj'.butare continued forward into the 

 solid olfactory nerve. 



The structure and distribution of the nerve-fibres and cells 

 have not been closely studied ; the following are some preliminary 

 notes : 



The cavities of the brain are throughout lined with masses of 

 jierve-cells of varying thickness. Xerve-cells are also found 

 scattered among the fibres, but these are somewhat rare. The 

 gra}' substance lining the hemispheres corresponds to the central 

 gray, the Ilohlengrau of Meynert. At a few points it is found 

 upon the brain cortex; these are: (1) the lateral bodies of the 

 infundibulum (fig. 3) ; (2 ) the upper surface of the central portion 

 of the hemispheres (fig. 11) ; (3) and the inner sides and front of 

 the foremost portion of the same (fig. 12) ; (4) the cerebellum. 



' Anterior and posterior commissures. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Xone of these cortical exposures of the central gray can be 

 considered to correspond to the cortical gray (Rindengrau) of 

 the mammalian brain. The gray substance is, therefore, chiefly 

 central. 



The scattered nerve-cells above referred to are principally found 

 in the substance of the hemispheres above the cavities, internal 

 to fig. 11, a. Here they are numerous. 



The nerve-cells are chiefly small, oval and nucleated bodies, 

 veiy compactly placed ; among these at some points, as in the 

 crura, much larger cells enveloped in loose capsules were discov- 

 ered. No processes were found leading out of these cells, in fact 

 i:o unmistakably branched cells were found at any point ; this 

 may have been the foult of the preparation methods, for Stieda 

 has found that the branched nerve-cells are very numerous in the 

 frog, while Wyman, employing simpler histological methods, failed 

 to find them. 



This is as far as the sections have been studied, although they 

 offer very tempting opportunities for making out the nerve-tracts. 



The following is a resum^ of the results thus far obtained : 



In external characters, Amphiuma diff"ers widel}' from the frog 

 tj'pe in the simpler differentiation of its parts, the mid-region of 

 the brain being a rounded tube with no separation of its optic 

 lobes and thalami indicated above. The cavities of the brain are 

 equally simple, the meta-, meso- and diaccelife forming a uniform 

 cavity, forking into the procoeliae in front. The infundibulum has 

 the large size which is so characteristic of it in the fishes, and its 

 lateral bodies recall the lohi inferiores in the Teleosts, although 

 passing forwards they form the tuber cinereum. The pineal and 

 pituitary bodies are constructed upon clearly different principles, 

 one being within, the other without the brain walls, the former a 

 vascular plexus, the latter a gland. In the roof of the Dien- 

 cephalon is a small spherical body whose meaning is not known, 

 but which may prove to be of some morphological significance. 

 The cerebellum has a cellular investment and consists of two sets 

 of fibres with a transverse and fore and aft direction. The gray 

 matter of the brain lines the cavities throughout, as the " central 

 gray ; " continuations of it extend in some places to the cortex, 

 but the "cortical graj'," if present at all, is xQvy limited in 

 distribution. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 185 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. 



Illustrating the Brains op Amphiuma and Menopoma. 



Lettering and Abbremations. 



Jlh. — Rhinencepbalon ; Pr. and Pro. c. — Prosencephalon and Proccelia ; Vi., 

 Di. t. and Di. c— Diencephalon, Diatela (roof of Diencepbalon), and 

 Diacoelia ; Me. and 3/e. c. — ^lesencephalon and Mesoccelia ; Ep. and 

 Bp. c. — Epencephalon and Epiccelia ; Met. — Metencephalon. 



Tc. — Tuber cinereum ; c7i. — optic chiasma ;p^ — pituitary body ;pn. — pineal 

 gland; z«-. — infundibulum ; cho. — choroid plexus; cr. — crura cerebri ; 

 p. cm. — praecommissura (anterior commissure); th.— optic thalamus. 



I. — Optic; II. — Olfactory ; III. — Oculo-Motor ; V. — Trigeminis ; VI. — 

 Abducens; VIL— Facial; VIIL —Auditory ; IX, X, XI.— Vagus 

 Group. N. B. — The identification of the nerves was by noting their 

 origin ; the distribution of the nerves has not been worked out. 



Special References in Figures. 



Figures A-D, twice natural size. Figs. H and 1-13, eight times natural 

 size. 



FiGDRE A. Dorsal view of the brain of Amphiuma. 



Figure B. Ventral view of the same. 



Figure C. Dorsal view of the brain of Menopoma. 



Figure D. Lateral view of the same. Dit. corresponds to vertical line 

 7, fig. H. 



Figure E. Enlarged view (about 30 diameters) of a longitudinal section 

 of the cerebellum and a portion of the optic lobe, taken at one side 

 of the median line. The valvula, », is broader in the median line ; 

 d, white, e, gray portion of Mesencephalon ; a, fine longitudinal fibres ; 

 b, transverse baud of fibres ; c, cortical layer of cells. 



Figure F. Transverse section of the cerebellum, lettering as in fig. E. 



Figure G. a, large, b, small cells found in crura eerebri (30 diameters). 



Figure H. Longitudinal section of the brain of Amphiuma, taken to the 

 left of the median line. Vertical lines, 1 to 13, correspond to trans- 

 verse sections represented by figs. 1 to 13. Black line represents the 

 pia mater ; the roof of the metaccelia (fourth ventricle) is omitted in 

 the drawing. 



Figure 1. Vertical transverse section through cerebellum, showing it as 

 • a transverse band passing beneath Mesencephalon. 



Figure 2. Ditto through pituitary body and infandibulum, showing 

 crura cerebri and optic lobe unpaired. 



Figure 3. Showing sides of infundibulum thickening into tuber cinereum. 



Figure 4. Through posterior portion of the Diencephalon. 



Figure 5. Through the median portion of the Diencephalon. 



Figure 6. Slightly anterior to fig. 5. y, a constriction of the upper por- 

 tion of the diacoelia. 

 1^ 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Figure 7. Forward portion of Diencephalon. y corresponds to y in fig. 



6 ; a;, see x in fig. H. 

 Figure 8. Forward portion of Diencephalon. a, bands of fibres passing 



downwards into the hemispheres. 

 Figure 9. Forward lower portion of Diencephalon {Di. c), showing 



praecommissura and procoelia. 

 Figure 10. Through the hemispheres slightly anterior to the lamina 



terminalis. 

 Figure 11. Median portion of hemispheres ; a, gray matter extending to 



cortex. 

 Figure 12. Anterior third of hemispheres ; showing the beginning of the 



Rhinencephalon. 

 FipURB 13. Section near the tips of the hemispheres. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIE-VCES OF PHILADELPinA. 187 



August 7. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Six persons present. 



August 14. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair, 

 Nine persons present. 



August 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Six persons present. 



August 28. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Tice-President, in the chair. ' 



Fifteen persons present. 



Some Evidences of Great Modern Geological Changes in 

 Alaska. — Mr. Thomas Meehax exhibited a piece of wood taken 

 from a prostrate tree, in what appeared to have been a sunken 

 foi-est in Alaska. It was in Hood's Bay, as ra-irked on some 

 charts, on a peninsula formed by the junction of Glacier Ba^' and 

 Lynn Channel, and facing Cross Sound, in lat. 58° 30'. " The 

 arboreal vegetation generally- prevailing in this section consists 

 of Abies Sitkensis (A. Menziesii of many botanists ) ; Abies Mer- 

 tensiana, the western hemlock spruce ; and Thuja gigantea, 

 called here '"cedar" and "white cedar." Thujopsis borealis is 

 said to " abound " in these districts by some authors, but Mr. 

 Meehan remarked that though looking for it through many hun- 

 dred miles along the shores of the inland seas in southeastern 

 Alaska, he did not see one specimen. The trees in the forest are 

 of all ages,fx'om young seedlings to aged decaying and dead ones. 

 But in sailing into Hood's Bay he noted that the forests all had 

 a comparatively young look — few of the trees appearing over 

 fifty j-ears old. The shores were high — at the point where he 

 landed not less than fifty feet above tide-water — and the soil was 

 sand, or of glacial production. Across from here to Lynn Channel 

 the distance might be about twelve miles, and, so far as could be 

 judged, the soil and trees across were of the same character; and 




188 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



it appeared the same up and down the peninsula foi* miles. Along 

 the shore he found numerous prostrate trees, and upright stumps 

 "which had been ground off a few feet above the surface. The 

 stumps could be seen extending down below low-water mark, and 

 they extended up to the bottom of the highland at high-water 

 mark, where the mud in M-hich they had grown was covered by the 

 glacial deposit already referred to. The wood exhibited was part 

 of one of tliese prostrate trunks, and is evidently the same species 

 as that now existing on the land, Abies Sitkensis. It is quite 

 sound, and exhibits no evidence of great age since it became 

 covered with tlie drift. The shores are strewn with rocks and 

 stones of various classes, as usual in cases of glacial deposits. 

 On one of the prostrate trunks — the one from which the piece of 

 wood exhil)ited was taken — there lies a block of granite wdiich, 

 by measurement, was found to contain 2214 cubic feet. This 

 trunk was partially bent in the middle by the weight of the huge 

 block of stone, showing that the block had fallen on it, while the 

 ground beneath the trunk was comparatively soft. Near this, but 

 so far as could be seen not on an}" trunk, was a much larger mass 

 of granite, comprising 3888 cubic feet. The whole of th« circum- 

 stances pointed to the almost certainty that there had been a 

 sudden subsidence of the land, and that with the subsidence there 

 was a flow of water with icebergs on which were these huge rocks, 

 and which crushed the trees and tore off those which were strong 

 enough to resist ; and that subsequentlj' to the destruction of the 

 forest, the whole surface became covered to a great depth with 

 drift. Since that time there must have been an elevation of the 

 land, and the remains of the trees are again brought to their 

 original surface, but with a deep bed of earth above them. Mr. 

 Meehan believed that the botanical facts might aflbrd a clue to 

 an approximation to the time when these events occurred. The 

 youth of the living forest indicated that, at the farthest, it could 

 not have been more than a few hundred years since the elevation 

 occurred. As alreadj' noted, the trees in the immediate vicinity 

 appeared to be but about fift}^ ^ears since germination ; but 

 unless the original parent trees which furnished the seed for the 

 uplifted land were near by, it might take some years for the seed 

 to scatter from bearing trees, grow to maturity', again seed, and 

 in this way travel to where we now find them. But as original 

 forests were evidently not so very far distant, two or three hundred 

 years ought to cover all the time required. The Rev. Mr. Corlies, 

 a missionary at Juneau, or Harrisburg as it is marked on some 

 charts, informed the speaker that an Indian chief had told him 

 that about seven or eight generations ago, as tradition told them, 

 there had been a sudden and terrible flood in that land, and only 

 a few Indians had escaped in a large canoe. The probable iden- 

 tity of the sunken trees with the present species, and the freshness 

 of the wood, Avould indicate no verv' great date backwards at 

 which the original subsidence occurred. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



In connection with tlie subject of the comparative recentness 

 of great geological changes as indicated by botanical evidence, 

 Mr. Meehan referred to an exposure of the remains of a large 

 forest near the Muir glacier, one of five huge ones which form the 

 head of Glacier Ba}', between lat. 59^ and 60°. This glacier is 

 at least two miles wide at the mouth, and has an average depth of 

 ice at this spot of perhaps five hundred feet. At the present time 

 there is not a vestige of arboreal vegetation to be seen anj'where, 

 except some willows on the hillsides, some miles from huge hills 

 of drift piled up everywhere around. The river which flows under 

 the glacier, and which has a volume equal to the Schu3dkill at 

 Philadelphia, does not flow into the bay from under the ice at the 

 face, but rushes out in a mighty torrent on the northwest side, a 

 few miles above the mouth, and has cut its way through mountains 

 of drift, the gorge being many hundred feet in width, and the 

 sides from two hundred to five hundred feet high. The torrent 

 through the bed is now comparativelj^ level, carrjnng with it an 

 immense quantity of heavy stones, some of which must have 

 comprised masses of six or eight cubic feet. Along the sides of 

 this gorge were the exposed trunks, all standing perfectly erect, 

 and cut off at about the same level. Some were but a few feet 

 high, and others as much as fifteen — the difference arising from 

 the slope of the ground on which the trees grew. These trunks 

 were of mature trees in the main, and were evidently of Abies 

 Sitkenais, with a few of either Thuja gigantea or Juniperus, 

 perhaps Occidentalism the uncertainty arising from the imperfec- 

 tion of the bark — what there was of this indicating the former, 

 while an eccentricity of outline of the wood, not uncommon in 

 Juniperus, favoring the latter view. These trees mxist have been 

 filled in tightly by drift to the height of fifteen feet before being 

 cut off, or the trunks now standing would have been split down 

 on the side opposite to that which received the blow, and the 

 grinding off could not have been man}' years after, or the dead 

 trees would have lost their bark, as they always do when under 

 var3ang conditions of heat and moisture. The facts seemed to 

 him to indicate that the many feet of drift which had buried part 

 of the trees in the first instance was the work of a single season, 

 and that the subsequent total destruction of every vestige of these 

 great forests was the work of another one soon following. As 

 in the case of the facts noted in Hood's Bay, Mr. Meehan believed 

 that the conclusion was justified that the total destruction of the 

 forests here, the covering of their site by hundreds of feet of 

 drift, and the subsequent exposal to view of their remains, were 

 all the work of but a very few hundred years. 



Mr. Charles Peabodv was elected a member. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



September 4. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



The death of John C. Dawson, a member, was announced. 



Exudation from Floioers in Eelotion to Honey-dew. — Mr. Thos. 

 Meehan remarked that our standard literature yet continued to 

 teach that the sweet varnish-like ooverina: often found over every 

 leaf on large trees, as well as on comparatively small bushes, was 

 the work of insects, notably Aphides. So far as he knew, Dr. 

 Hoffman, of Giessen, who in 1876 published a paper on the subject, 

 is the onl}^ scientific man of note who takes ground against this 

 view. He met with a camelia without blossoms, and wholly free 

 from insects, and yet the leaves were coated with "honey-dew," 

 as it is generally known. He found this substance to consist of a 

 sticky colorless liquid, having a sweetish taste, and principally gum. 

 Mr. Meehan said he had often met with cases where no insects 

 could be found, as well as others where insects were numerous, 

 and where in the latter case, the attending circumstances were 

 strongly in favor of the conclusion that the liquid covering was 

 the w^ork of insects. 



He said he believed that few scientific men had any knowledge 

 of the enormous amount of liquid exuded by flowers at the time 

 of opening, and he had seen cases where the leaves were as com- 

 pletely covered b}' the liquid from the floweis. as if it had exuded 

 from the leaves, as he believed Dr. Hoffman had good grounds for 

 believing is often the case. He had alread}' brought to the atten- 

 tion of the Academy cases where large quantities of liquid had 

 dropped from the flowers to the leaves below, of which Yvcca, 

 Mahonia and some others had been recorded in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy. Akehia had been noted by Mr. Wm. M. Canby to 

 drop from the leaves at certain times, and Sach notes in his Text- 

 book the moisture which fills the small flowers of Thuja. In 

 connection with the last case, the exudation from Coniferse, he 

 met ■with a remarkable case during his recent journey through the 

 northwest coast. While collecting plants along the east shore of 

 the Columbia River he noticed a plant of Alnun Oregana^ covered 

 with honey-dew. The woolly Aphis, so well known for its pref- 

 erence for alder, also abounded. Little drops of liquid were in 

 many cases attached to the apex of the abdomen, and tlie conclu- 

 sion was reached that in this case at least, the probabilities favored 

 the insect origin of the liquid on the leaves. Proceeding a few 

 feet further, towards the trunk of a large spreading Sitka spruce 

 {Abies Sitkensis), and then on the other side, a bush of P;/'"''-'^ 

 rivularis was observed also covered, but not a sign of an insect 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



anywhere about it. This caused a reexamination of the whole 

 case, when it was noticed that stones under the spruce tree, 

 forming the shore of the river, and many feet outside of the circle 

 formed" by the branches of the Pyrus and Alder, were quite black 

 with a gummy coat, which most probably had fallen from the 

 spruce, the branches of which overshadowed the two bushes already 

 named, as well as the stones. The branches of the spruce hanging 

 towards the river were covered with young cones of probably 

 one-half their full size, and the scales were found to be filled with 

 sweet liquid. Taking the cone as it hung on the ti'ee and stripping 

 it down as one would milk a cow, a drop as large as a pea gathered 

 in the hand from a single cone. There could be no doubt but that 

 the viscid covering on the leaves of the two shrubs below, as well 

 as on the unprotected stones, came from the cones of the spruce 

 tree. He had seen, two years ago, the glossy covering over the 

 leaves of the Liriodendron at flowering time, and found the 

 opening flowers with a large quantity of liquid at the base, and 

 had intended especially to give the matter minute attention the 

 past summer and then report to the Academy ; but his long 

 journey had diverted him. Recently the subject had been again 

 brought to his attention during some experiments in relation to 

 pollinization and cross-fertilization in Plat^codon grandifiora not 

 yet concluded. Cutting open very carefully a corolla just about 

 to expand, the whole inner surface was found to be coated with 

 minute drops of moisture, which, as they gathered in size, streamed 

 down toward the base of the pistil. This liquid was not sweet, 

 but had the taste of lettuce. In the case of the moisture which 

 exuded from the divisions of the perianth in Yucca gloriosa and 

 Yucca angustifolia before reported, the taste was rather bitter 

 than sweet. He said there was reason for the belief that much 

 of the moisture found at the base of flowers was not the product 

 of '• nectariferous glands," which were sometimes guessed at rather 

 than always detected, but was rather the collection from exudation 

 from the petals ; and if so it was a confirmation of Dr. Hoff"man's 

 idea of the origin of honey-dew through the surface of the leaf, 

 as we might reasonably suppose a modified leaf like the petal of a 

 flower to have some functions in common with the primary leaves 

 from which they sprung. 



AVhat is the object of this abundant exudation of sweet liquid 

 and liquid of other character from leaves and flowers? The 

 speaker said we were so accustomed to read of nectar and nec- 

 taries in connection with the cross-fertilization of flowers, that 

 there might seem to be no room for any other suggestion. But 

 plants like the Thuja and Abies were anemophilous, and having 

 their pollen carried freely by the wind, had no need of these 

 extraordinary exudations from an^^ point of view connected with 

 the visits of insects to flowers. In the case of Thuja, Sach had 

 suggested another use : " The pollen-grains which happen to fall on 

 the micropyle of the ovules are retained by an exuding drop of fluid, 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



which about this time fills the canal of the micropyle, but after- 

 wards dries up, and thus draws the captured pollen-grains to the 

 nucleus, where the}' immediately emit their pollen-tubes into the 

 spongy tissue. In Gupressineae^ Taxinese and Fodocarpese this 

 contrivance is sufficient, since the mycrop^'les project outwardly; 

 in the Abietii^ese, where they are more concealed among the scales 

 and bracts, these themselves form, at the time of pollination, 

 canals and channels for this purpose, through which the pollen- 

 grains arrive at the microp3^1es filled with fluid " (Strasberger).^ 

 Mr. Meehan said that in his former observations on liquid exuda- 

 tions in Thuja and other plants he was inclined to adopt the 

 suggestion of Sach as to the purpose of the liquid supply ; but as 

 it was here in Abies so long after fertilization must have taken 

 place, and as it was held up in the deep recesses of the scales of 

 the pendent cone, where it could hardly be possible the wind could 

 draw up the pollen ; and as, moreover, the extract shows that these 

 eminent botanists believe Ahietinese does not need the moisture 

 they did not know existed in this abundance, we must look for 

 other reasons, which, however, do not yet seem to be apparent. 



September 11. 



Mr. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. . 



Sixteen persons present. 



The death of the Curator-in-charge, Charles F. Parker, on the 

 7th inst., was announced. 



Irritabilihj in the Floioers of Centaureas and Thistles. — Mr. 

 Thomas Meehan called attention to some flowers of various com- 

 positse on the table, sent by Miss Maxy E. Powel, of Newport, 

 Rhode Island, who has observed a singular motion in the florets 

 of Centaurea Americana. This motion had long been known 

 to German botanists, and a reference to some features of it 

 may be found in Sach's Text-book of Botan}-, and there was an 

 illustrated paper bj' Cohn in Zeilschrift fur wis. Zoologie.^ vol. 

 xii, showing the mechanism of the contraction of the anthers. 

 As, however, the motion had failed to attract the attention of 

 American observers, or at least he knew of no reference to it in any 

 American work at his command, he believed it might do good 

 service to place on record an independent statement of the phe- 

 nomena as exhibited by the specimens before us. 



Besides the motion in Centaurea Americana. oh^evxeA bj'- Miss 

 Powel, Mr. Meehan said that he found a similar motion in the 

 following plants growing in his garden : Centaurea alba, Centaurea 



^ Sach, Text-book of Botany, Oxford edition, p. 449, The various ways 

 of spelling micropyle in the same paragraph, are of course retained in the 

 quotation. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



nigra, C. ochroleuca, G. rutifolia, Cirsium serrulatiim, C. dis- 

 color, and C. lanceolatum. The motion seems most active when 

 tlie anthers are ready to shed their pollen, and, as pollen-gathering 

 insects anticipate the observer, it is best to cut the flowers and 

 place them in water in a room. Endeavoring to observe the motion 

 of Cirsium discolor in the growing plant almost failed from this 

 cause, but on drawing a light substance over the whole head, some 

 of the florets were found to move. 



In the Centaurea flowers on the table, the best period for 

 observing the motion is when the anthers which cover the apex 

 of the pistil seem about to allow the pistil to protrude. If then 

 touched, the pollen is seen to issue from the mouth of the united 

 stamens, and the whole crown of anthers to decline. Cohn, above 

 cited, gives the exact measurement of this contraction, and 

 explains the mechanism by which the contraction is accomiDlished. 

 At the same time, if the motive power be very active, the whole 

 upper portion of the floret, moves in some direction, apparently 

 without order or sj-stem. Sometimes it is In a lateral direction, 

 at other times upwards or downwards, and sometimes describing 

 a circle round its own axis. In some cases the motion is commu- 

 nicated to other florets — two and sometimes three moving to the 

 touch of a single one. In ten minutes after the exhibition of 

 irritation, it is ready for another fit, and goes through the motions, 

 though less actively than before. Mr. Meehan had failed to get 

 any motion three times from the same floret, and not always two. 

 Touching the pistil had no eff'ect unless the force was sufficient to 

 press one side against the anther. The irritation seemed to be 

 confined to the stamens, and through these probabh' down b}' their 

 nervous connections through the achenium, and in this waj* com- 

 municating with the nerves which run up through neighboring 

 achenes to the stamens which they support. 



Since the above communication w^as made to the Academy, 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield believes that the neutral ray florets in Cen- 

 taurea Americana, which have neither stamens nor pistil, also 

 possess the power of motion, and Miss Powell, without knowledge 

 of Mr. Kedfield's observation, notes a similar experience. 



September 18. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 

 The death of John C. Trautwine, a member, was announced. 



Notes on the Sequoia gigantea. — Mr. Meehan remarked that so 

 much had been written about the mammoth trees, that there seemed 

 little room for more ; but to one of the fullest accounts given, 

 namely, that by Mr. Muir in the Proceedings of the Meeting of 




]94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at 

 Buffiilo. 187G, he believed he might add a few additional facts, 

 drawn from or suggested hy a visit made to a few of the groves 

 during the ])ast summer. He coidd confirm the statement of Mr. 

 Miiir tliat tliere were com])arativel3- few young plants growing 

 among the old ones in the Calaveras or Mariposa groves. In the 

 latter spot a few might be found in swampy places. Man}^ of the 

 large trees were also growing in swampy ground, while some were 

 found where the ground would be pronounced quite dry. Mr. 

 Muir gave 5000 feet as about the elevation of the trees in these — 

 the northern part of the belt occupied Iw them. On the southern 

 part of the belt Mr. Muir found them at about 8000 feet, and there 

 numerous young trees formed the great mass of the undergrowth, 

 and furnished an abundance for a perfect succession of forest 

 trees. Here Mr. Muir found tliem in ground not swampy, as well 

 as in situations as swampy as possible, and he concludes tliat the 

 Sequoia gigantea is a tree which has the power of growing in 

 dryer and wetter soil than most other species. He adds : " It is 

 constant!}' asserted in a vague way, that the Sierra (in past times) 

 was vastl}' wetter than now, and that the increasing drouth will 

 of itself extinguish Sequoia, leaving its ground to other trees 

 supposed capable of flourishing in a dryer climate. But that 

 Sequoia can and does grow on as dr}' ground as any of its present 

 rivals, is manifest in a thousand places. ' Why, then,' it will be 

 asked, 'is Sequoia, always found in greatest alnmdance in well- 

 watered places where streams are excei)tionall3' abundant?' Simply 

 because a growth of sequoias always creates these streams. * * * 

 Drain the water, if possible, and the trees will remain ; but cut off 

 the trees, and the streams will vanish." He has seen a fallen 

 trunk make a dam of 200 feet long, and similar bogs made by 

 roots and fallen triniks damming the earth, are familiar features in 

 the more luxuriant sequoia forests. On this bare suggestion Mr. 

 Muir builds as if it were a demonstration, and proceeds to say : 

 " Since the exti'a moisture found in connection with the denser 

 growths is an effect of their presence, instead of a cause of their 

 preserce, then notions, * * * based upon its supposed 

 dependence on greater moisture, are shown to be erroneous." 



In the light of these A'iews, Mr, Meehan said he had carefully 

 examined the trees in the groups scattered from the Fresno to 

 Calaveras, and could say that in these localities the sequoias pos- 

 sessed no more power of making the ground swampy than any 

 oth' r tiee which might form the leading forests in heavy wooded 

 districts. The huge specimens oi Pinus Lamhei'liana^Pinusponder- 

 o.sa, and the tliick groves of Libocedrus — huge, though averaging at 

 best but two-thirds the diameter of the mammoth sequoias — did not 

 make the ground swampy in the slightest degree. Mr. Muir's 

 supposition — for it surely cannot be regarded as such a demon- 

 stration as science requires — would give us small swamps, at 

 least, for the smaller trees. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Experience of forest growths in the eastern states gave abun- 

 dance of facts, which Vere quite sufficient to explain the existing 

 state of things, on grounds very different from those assumed by 

 Mr. Muir. Observers knew that there were trees which loved 

 moisture, and trees which preferred dry ground. Swamp-lovers 

 would grow in dry places almost as well as in wet ones, but the 

 dry-lovers would not grow in wet places. The swamp magnolia, 

 swamp willow, swamp azalea, the bald cypress, the swamp maple, 

 the sweet gum — every swamp tree that can be named — do just as 

 well, and in many cases better, in dry ground. This is so well 

 known to every intelligent cultivator of trees, that its correctness 

 is beyond dispute. Here in the east, the largest red maples, 

 willows, cypresses, and other swamp trees, are the occasional 

 specimens which by accident find themselves on dry ground. On 

 the othei- hand, the dry -land species of pine, oak, maple, and other 

 trees, can under no circumstances be made to grow in wet places; 

 and, therefore, if Mr. Muir's suggestion that the Sequaia was once 

 a dry-land plant, and made the land swampy through its own 

 growth, should by au}^ possibility be found correct, it would 

 probablj' be an exceptional case in the vegetable kingdom. It had 

 been shown by himself, the speaker said, in j^ast communications 

 to the Academy, printed in its Proceedings, that trees only grow 

 in swamps from a provision of nature that their seeds shall only 

 germinate in wet ]jlaces. It seems like a determination of nature 

 that some trees shall grow in swamps, whether they prefer it or 

 not. Though these trees grow better and fruit freel}^ in dry 

 ground, the trees cannot spread, because there is not the moisture 

 required for the seed to grow. 



Mr. Muir mistakes the argument. It is not that sequoias will 

 not grow in dry ground, but that the seed will not germinate to 

 any extent excej)t under highl}- humid conditions. Ground need 

 not be absolutel}' wet. The cultivator raises swamp ferns on 

 bricks, and the swamp rhododendron is often found on rocky 

 ledges, but this is only where a humid atmosphere keeps the seed 

 from drying till it grows. The atmospheric humidity at 8000 feet 

 would be more likely to help Sequoia at 8000 feet than at 5000. 

 In concluding this branch of the topic he said the facts spoke for 

 themselves. The seed did not grow now — there were no seed- 

 lings — though seeds w^ere abundant. The\' grew in former times 

 or the trees would not exist. There must be some change in the 

 conditions necessary' to make seeds grow since the forest was 

 started. We know from outside observations that seed of swamp- 

 loving trees will not grow under arid conditions. We see that 

 the Sequoia is a swamp-lover. Is not this getting to as close an 

 explanation as science rarely reaches? May we not say that 

 Sequoia does not spread because the humid conditions are not as 

 they once were when the lorests were founded? This was cer- 

 tainly his conclusion from the facts as the}' presented themselves 

 to his observation. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



If this be incontrovertible, it opens up an interesting question 

 as to the cause of tlie desiccation in tlie vicmity of tlie big trees. 

 The ratio of disintegration in a mountain peak, b}'^ the frost, rains, 

 and elements generall}^ and the descent of the loose mass to the 

 lower lands by the simple law of gravity alone, would depend on 

 the width of the peak, as Avell as the nature of the material. In 

 the process of ages, peaks covered with snow would be lowered 

 till they were no longer snow-capped in summer, and thus lower 

 regions in the vicinity, covered perchance with Sequoia, would be 

 under dryer atmospheric conditions. To a greater or less extent 

 this must be the case in all mountain changes, but whether this 

 could haA'e been going on to any appreciable extent in the few 

 thousand years during which these trees have occupied the spot, 

 is a question for geologists to determine. However, Mr. Miiir 

 himself gives good reasons for the belief that tliese trees followed 

 from the west, eastwardly, in the close wake of retreating glaciers, 

 and when the atmospheric moisture, as well as that of the earth 

 contiguous, must have been more moist than now. 



In regard to the age of the trees, Mr. Meelian said doubts had 

 been expressed whether the Sequoia might not make more than 

 one annual circle of wood a 3'ear, and thus render the count by 

 these annual circles unsafe. He had given close attention to this 

 point on the ground, b}^ measuring the height of thrifty .young 

 trees, and estimating by the growth per j-ear the probable age. 

 A tree of say thirty, forty or fifty feet, would be seen to be about 

 that man}' years old. The diameter of the trunk would then be 

 taken and found to correspond with the one annual ring per year 

 in the sections of the larger trees, as per actual count. There 

 would be no question but the larger trees were over 2000 years old. 



He found that when about three or four hundred years old, the 

 trees ceased to increase in height to anj- appreciable degree, the 

 eflbrt of the tree being more in a lateral direction, and the nutri- 

 tient matter necessary to the building up of the trunk was mainly 

 the work of the side branches. The height of one called " Havei'- 

 ford," after our sister college, he found, by a rough triangulation, 

 to be about 249 feet. 



September 25. 

 Rev. Dr. H. C. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



The death of Alexis T. Cope, a member, was announced. 



Restoration of Limbs in Tarantula. — Rev. Dr. McCooK re- 

 marked that the tarantula exhibited had been kept in confinement 

 nearly a 3'ear, fed during winter on raw beef and in summer on 

 grasshoppers. In the spring it cast its skin, by a laborious 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



process, "which was described to the Academy, in the course of 

 which it lost one foot and two entire legs. This summer again, 

 during the latter part of August, the animal moulted ; the moult 

 as exhibited is a perfect cast of the large spider — skin, spines, 

 claws, the most delicate hairs all showing, and their corresponding 

 originals appearing bright and clean upon the spider. The moult- 

 ing occurred during Dr. McCook's absence, but was just finished 

 when he returned. When the cast-off skin was removed it showed, 

 as might be supposed, the dissevei'ed members to be lacking. 

 But on looking at the spider itself, it was seen that new limbs 

 had appeared, perfect in shape but somewhat smaller than the cor- 

 responding ones on the opposite side of the body. The dissevered 

 foot was also i-estored. The loss of the opportunit}^ to see the 

 manner in which the legs were restored during moult was greatly 

 regretted ; but we have some clue from the careful and interesting 

 studies of Mr. Blackwall. Several spiders whose members had 

 been previously amputated, were killed and dissected immediately 

 before moulting. In one of these the leg which was reproduced 

 was found to haA^e its tarsal and metatarsal joints folded in the 

 undetached half of the integument of the old tibia. Another like 

 experiment was made with an example of Tegenaria civilis. The 

 reproduced leg was found complete in its organization, although 

 an inch in length, and was curiouslj^ folded in the integument of 

 the old coxa, which measured onl}' one-twenty-fourth of an inch 

 in length. Dr. McCook's tarantula had lost both legs close up 

 to the coxae, and in the moult the hard skin formed upon the 

 amputated trunks was wholl}^ unbroken, showing that the skin 

 had been cast before the new leg appeared. We risk nothing in 

 inferring that, as in the case of Blackwall's Tegenaria, the rudi- 

 mentar}- legs were folded up within the coxse, and appeared at 

 once alter the moulting, rapidly filling out in a manner somewhat 

 analogous to the expansion of the wings in insects after emerging. 



Messrs. Henry F. Claghorn and Emanuele Fronani were elected 

 members. 



October 2. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death of Charles Magarge, a member, was announced. 



The Synchronism of Geological Formations. — Professor Angelo 

 Heilprin, referring to one of tlie many vexed problems which from 

 time to time engross the attention of geologists and naturalists, 

 namely, the contemporaneit}' of geological formations, stated that 

 the order of deposit of the various formations, from the oldest to 

 the newest, was constant the world over, and that nowhere, except 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



■where there may have been a reversal of the strata themselves, 

 was there evidence of a reversed position. Corresponding strata, 

 as indicated by the contained fossils, had therefore been supposed 

 to belong to the same age, although occurring in widely separated 

 regions. This view, for a long time maintained undisturbed by 

 the earlier geologists and palaeontologists, had, however, been 

 dissented from by Edward Forbes, Huxlej', and other advocates 

 of the doctrine of faunal dispersion from localized areas or centres 

 of distribution (opponents of independent creation), on the obvious 

 ground, that founas starting from a given point of origination 

 could only spread by migration, and that such migration must 

 consume time, proportional to the distance traveled and the phys- 

 ical and ph\'siographical facilities afforded for traveling. Hence 

 it was argued that widely separated formations showing an 

 equivalent faunal faeies, as, for example, the Silurian of America 

 and the Silurian of Europe or eastern Asia, or the Cretaceous of 

 Europe and South America, could not be of identical age, and, 

 with a fair show of probability, not even approximately so. In 

 support of this position it has been urged that during the present 

 age of the world the faunas of tlie several continents are widely 

 distinct, and could, under geological conditions, be considered as 

 indicating different zoological i geological) eras. In conformity 

 with this view, Professor Huxley had proposed (Anniversary 

 Address, Geol. Soc, 1862. Q. J. Geol. Soc, xviii, p. xlvi) the term 

 " homotaxis," indicating similarit^y of arrangement, in place of 

 SA^ichrony, to describe the relations of distant areas of the same 

 formation. 



Pushing his conclusion to what appeared to be its furthest legit- 

 imate point. Professor Huxley deduced therefrom two important 

 considerations : 



I. That formations exhibiting the same faunal faeies may belong 

 to two or more very distinct periods of the geological scale as 

 now recognized ; and converselj^ formations whose faunal elements 

 are quite distinct, may be absolutely contemporaneous ; e, g. : 

 " For anything that geolog}-^ or paloeontologj' is able to show to 

 the contrary, a Devonian fauna and flora in the British Islands 

 ma}' have been contemporaneous with Silurian life in North Amer- 

 ica, and with a Carboniferous fauna and flora in Africa " (loc. cit.). 



II. That, granting this disparity of age between closel}' related 

 faunas, all evidence as to the uniformity of physical conditions 

 over the surf\ice of the earth during the same geological period 

 {i. e., the periods of the geological scale), as would appear to be 

 indicated by the similarit}' of the fossil remains belonging to that 

 period, falls to the ground. " Geographical provinces and zones 

 may have been as distinctly marked in the Palaeozoic epoch as at 

 present, and those seemingly sudden appearances of new genera 

 and species, which we ascribe to new creation, may be simple 

 results of migration." 



These views, enunciated b}' Prof. Huxlej^, were still largel}' 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 199 



held, Prof. Heilprin maintained, by a very large bod}' of geolo- 

 gists. But it can readil\' be shown by a logical deduction that at 

 least one of tlie conclusions arrived at (I) is, in almost certainty, 

 erroneous ; and that the second, based upon this one, derives no 

 confirmation from the supposed facts. If, as is contended, several 

 distinct faunas — i. e., faunas characteristic of distinct geological 

 epochs — may have existed contemporaneously, then evidences of 

 inversion in the order of deposit ought to be common, or, at any 

 rate, they ought to be indicated somewhere, since it can scareelj'' 

 be conceived that animals everywhere would haA^e observed the 

 same order or direction in their migrations. Given the possible 

 equivalency in age, as claimed, of the Silurian fauna of North 

 Amei'ica with the Devonian of the British Isles and the Carbon- 

 iferous of Africa, or an}* similar arrangement, wh}^ has it never 

 happened that when migration, necessitated by alterations in 

 the physical conditions of the environs, commenced, a fauna with 

 an earlier facies has been imposed upon a later one, as the Devonian 

 of Great Britain upon the Carboniferous of Africa, or the Amer- 

 ican Silurian upon the Devonian of Britain ? Or for that matter, 

 the American Silurian ma}' have just as Avell been made to succeed 

 the African Carboniferous. Why has it just so happened that a 

 fauna characteristic of a given period has invariably succeeded 

 one which, when the two are in superposition, all over the world (as 

 far as we are aware), indicates precedence in creation or origina- 

 tion, and never one that can be shown to be of later birth ? 

 Surel}' these peculiar circumstances cannot be accounted for on 

 the doctrine of a fortuitous migration. Nor can it be claimed 

 that, through the interaction of the evolutionary forces, a 

 migrating fauna with an early -life facies will in each case at the 

 point of its arrest have assumed the character of the later-day 

 fauna which belongs to that position. Therefore it appears inex- 

 plicable that a very great period of time could haA'e intervened 

 between the deposition of the fauna of one great geological epoch 

 at one locality, and that of the same or similar fauna at another 

 locality distantly removed from the first. In other words, the 

 migrations, for such must undoubtedly have been the means of the 

 distant propagation of identical or very closely related life-forms 

 (unless we admit the seemingly untenable hypothesis that equiva- 

 lent life-forms may have been very largely developed from inde- 

 pendent and very dissimilar lines of ancestry), must have been 

 much more rapidly performed than has generally been admitted 

 by naturalists. (Sic Huxle}^ : "All competent authorities will 

 probably assent to the proposition that phj'sical geology does not 

 enable us in any way to reply to this question, Were the British 

 Cretaceous rocks deposited at the same time as those of India, 

 or are they a million of j'ears younger or a million 'of 3'ears 

 older?") 



But what applies to the broader divisions of the geological 

 scale also applies to the minor divisions. Thus the subordinate 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



groups of a formation are almost as definitel_v marked off in the 

 same order, the world over, as are the formations themselves. 

 After breaks in formations the appearance of characteristic fossils 

 is largely the same ; whereas, on the theory of synchronism of 

 distinct faunas, such a succession of forms would certainly not be 

 constant. After deducing further evidence from the lithological 

 characters of the rock-masses of the various geological formations, 

 the speaker maintained that the views entertained on the subject 

 by the older geologists were more probably the correct ones, 

 namely : that formations characterized by the same or very 

 nearly related faunas in widely separated regions belonged, in 

 very moderate limits, to approximatel}' the same actual age, and 

 were, to all intents and purposes, synchronous or contem- 

 poraneous. 



Longemty of Trees. — At the meeting of the Botanical Section, 

 October 8, Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that there was nothing 

 phenomenal in the great age of the mammoth sequoias, as other 

 trees on the Pacific coast exhibited great age. In order to ascer- 

 tain whether more than one annual circle of wood is formed in 

 each year, he tested the matter in various ways. For instance, a 

 l)ine or spruce would be found to make an average growth of a 

 foot a year up to fifteen j^ears old ; from that to about thirty 

 years, nine inches ; from that on, six inches ; after that a stage 

 was reached where the erect growth ceased to anj' considerable 

 extent, and the growth force seemed turned toward the lateral 

 branches. In the jiine forests of the Pacific coast, there was no 

 danger of error in fixing the age of the average tree of sixt}^ feet 

 high, at about fifty years. Wherever such a tree was cut down, 

 and an o[)portnnit3' afforded to count the circles, they would be 

 found to correspond so nearly with the calculated age, as to 

 pi'ove that it was quite safe to assume a single circle for a single 

 year. .Then there was a remarkable degree of uniformitj'^ in the 

 diameter of these annual growths in most trees, so that when 

 once we had the number of the circular lines to an inch, and the 

 diameter of the tree, we could tell its age near enough for general 

 purposes. In some pine trees growing on very rich soil, he had 

 found as few as about four circles to an inch. For instance, a section 

 of a Pinus Lambertiana (in Mariposa), four feet across, had but 

 189 circles ; but here the increased size of the trees corresponds 

 with the larger annual circles. Trees of this species of pine here 

 were not uncommon, measuring thirty, and a few thirty-three feet 

 around. No matter, however, how vigoi'ous may be the growth of 

 trees under fifty or one hundred years, they decrease with age, and 

 we may safely allow six rings to an inch in these older sugar pines, 

 which would make the thirt^'-three feet tree 396 years old. The 

 outer growths of sequoia were very narrow. He counted as many 

 as eighteen to the inch, while the rings in the interior of cross- 

 sections would show about six to the inch. Allowing twelve as 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



the average per annum, a tree of thirtj'-three feet diameter would 

 give 2376 3'ears old, which is about the same as given bv an actual 

 count of rings. At Harrisburg or Juneau, in lat. 58°, a Sitka 

 spruce (Abie.s Siikensis) cut down, gave 149 rings from centre to 

 circumference — 298 lines, in a trunk three feet across. Tliis 

 gave an average of about eight to an inch in this 149 years old, 

 three feet tree. At Wrangel, lat. 56°30', a tree of the western 

 hemlock (Abies Mertenaiana) which had been blown down, and 

 afterwards divided by a cross-cut saw at four feet from its base, 

 gave eighteen lines to an inch, and the annual growths seemed 

 very regular almost to the centre of the tree. It was six feet in 

 diameter, and must have been a grand old tree in its day. It had 

 evidently been broken off years before it was blown down, but 

 the length of this trunk up to where it had been broken was 132 

 feet, and four feet in diameter at that height. But allowing as 

 much as twelve to an inch, it would give for the point cut across, 

 six feet, an age of 432 years. At Kaigan Harbor, lat. 5.5°, the 

 Sitka spruces were very large, and of great height. He measured two 

 of the largest, which were twenty -one feet in circumference each. 

 Allowing eight to the inch, as in the tree of the same species at 

 Harrisburg, it gives 336 years as the age of the tree ; so far as 

 appearances went, these trees were in the height of vigor, and 

 there seemed no reason, judging from experience in other cases, 

 why these trees might not flourish for a hundred years yet. Mr. 

 Meehan had no doubt that these trees in these latitudes in Alaska, 

 would easily have a life of 500 years. 



Turning now to the Atlantic States, we find 200 years as 

 the full average term of life for its forest trees, with the excep- 

 tion, perhaps, of the plane, Platanus occidenlalis, which is the 

 longest lived of all. Trees famous for longevity in Europe are 

 comparative!}- short-lived here. In the old Bartram Garden, 

 near Philadelphia, where the trees can be little more than 150 

 years old, nearly all are past their best. The English oak, 

 Quercus Rohur^ which in England is said to live for a thousand 

 years, has grown to full size and wholly died away in this garden, 

 and the foreign spruces are on the down grade. The great 

 cypress, Taxodiuvi distichum, which must have made an average 

 growth of four lines a year, has also begun to show signs of 

 deterioration. Silver firs, Abies pectinata^ in the vicinitj^ of 

 Philadelphia, known to be planted in 1800, are decaj'ing. This is 

 the general experience. 



In seeking for tlie cause of this difference, we are accustomed 

 to look at the relative humidity of the atmospheres of Great 

 Britain and the Atlantic United States. Evergreens like Gerasus 

 Laurocerasus^ Laurus nobilis, and Viburnum tinus, which will 

 endure a temperature of 25° below freezing point in Great 

 Britain, are killed hy 10° in Philadelphia; and it is believed 

 b}' the dryer atmosphere causing a heavier drain for moisture on 

 the vital powers of the plant to supply. A strain which will 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



wholly destro}' plants in some instances, must have an enervating 

 influence where it does not whollj^ destroy, and this would 

 naturall}' be exhibited in shortening the life of the tree. 



The climate of Alaska had the same favoring influences we 

 found in Great Britain. The warm sea of Japan flowed against 

 its southeastern face, along which the trees referred to were found. 

 The atmosphere was alwaj's moist, and severe weather almost 

 unknown. At Sitka, in lat 57°, as much as 100 inches of rain 

 had fallen in a single year. The harbor was rarely frozen ; boats 

 came in and went out at all times of the year. There were some 

 winters when no ice of any consequence was seen. These were 

 circumstances favorable to longevit}' in trees. 



Mr. Meehan concluded b}' remarking that Dr. Lindlej' had said 

 somewhere that his researches had failed to show that there was 

 any period of duration of life set for any tree, and that if circum- 

 stances favored there seemed no reason why trees might not live 

 for an indefinite period, and, therefore, arguments offered in 

 connection with the " wearing out of varieties," based on Avhat is 

 called the " natural life of a tree," had little force. Mr. Meehan 

 believed his observations on the longevity of trees on the Pacific 

 confirmed Dr. Lindley's views. At anj' rate, there seemed nothing 

 phenomenal in the age of the Sequoia gtgantea^ as other species 

 partook of similar longevity to a great extent. 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin was elected Curator, to fill the vacancy 

 caused by the death of Charles F. Parker. 



October 9. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thii'ty-two persons present. 



The Council reported the appointment of Prof. Angelo Heilprin 

 as Actuary to the Curators, or Curator-in-charge. 



Mineralogical Notes. — Dr. Leidy exhibited a large crj^stal of 

 topaz, from Mursinsk, Siberia. It is pale blue, with perfect 

 termination, and weighs three pounds three ounces. He also 

 exhibited large cut specimens of white topaz and rich green 

 ber3'l, which had met with a curious accident. The two, in 

 unpacking, had been violently struck together, and the former 

 had been broken through the middle so as to exhibit a perfect 

 ■cleavage. 



October 16. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Tice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirt3"-seven persons present. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



October 23. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Six persons present. ^ 



The deaths of Joachim Barrande, Oswald Heer and W. Kowa- 

 lewsky, correspondents, were announced. 



October 30. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Forty-five persons present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Proceedings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of 

 the Academy of Xatural Sciences of Philadelphia, from January 

 23, 1882, to November 26, 1883." 



"On the Anatomy of Ancjdus lacustris and Ancylus fluviatilis," 

 by Dr. Benj. Sharp. 



" Note on a Collection of Fossils from the Hamilton (Devo- 

 nian) Group, of Pike Co., Pa.," by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



" Manayunkia speciosa,'' by Prof. Jos. Leid}'. 



"On the Evidences of Glacial Action in Northern New York 

 and Canada," by Jos. Willcox. 



"Obituary Notice of Charles F. Parker," by Isaac C. Martindale. 



The death of J. Lawrence Smith, a correspondent, was announced. 

 Francis A. Cunningham and S. Mason McCollin, M. D., were 

 elected members. 



Eugene A. Ran, of Bethlehem, Pa., was elected a correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be published : 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



MANAYUNKIA SPECIOSA. 

 BY PROF. JOS. LEIDY. 



At the time of the discovery of the prett}^ polyzoan, Urnatella 

 gracilis, of which a description is now in course of publication in 

 the Journal of the Academy, I found an equalh' interesting little 

 annelide, of which I gave a brief notice in 1858, published in the 

 Proceedings for that year, page 90, under the name of Mava- 

 yunkia speciosa. The two were found in companj' together, 

 attached to the same stones, in the Schuylkill River, at Fairmount, 

 Philadelphia. They seem fitting associates, for while Urnatella is 

 nearly related with the marine Fedicellina, 3Ianayimkia is closely 

 related with the marine annelide Fahricia. Manayunkia has 

 proved to be less frequent than Urnatella, nor have I found it 

 elsewhere than in the locality named. Recentl}^, several specimens 

 were submitted to my examination hy our fellow-member, Mr. 

 Edward Potts, who found them attached to a fragment of pine- 

 bark, in Egg Harbor River, New Jersey. Independent of the 

 interest of finding the worm in a new locality, the specimens have 

 enabled me to complete an investigation of the animal so far as to 

 prepare the following description, though I have to regret that 

 the material has been insufficient to allow me to clear up several 

 important points. I have had the opportunity of comparing 

 3Ianayiinkia with a species of Fahricia living on our coast, and 

 have found the two to be so nearly' alike, that I am prepared to 

 hear it questioned whether the former should be regarded as 

 generically distinct from the latter. 



Manayunkia forms a tube of mud, which it occupies. The tube 

 is composed of the finest particles, aglutinated hy a mucoid secre- 

 tion of the worm. It is cylindrical, straight or bent, mostly even 

 or slightly uneven on the outside, and sometimes feebly annulated. 

 It is attached partly along its length to fixed objects, with the 

 greater part free, directed downward and .pendant. Most speci- 

 mens observed were single, but several were found in which two 

 or tluee tubes were conjoined, and in one instance five tubes with 

 remains of others were given off, in a candelabra-like manner, 

 from a common stem, as represented in fig. 2, Plate IX. From 

 the open mouth of the tube, the worm protrudes its head and 

 spreads its crown of ciliated tentacles, in the same manner as in 




Froc A '•' S ^hila 1883 



PMX 



A A K 



MANAYUNKIA SPECIOSA 



T. Smciaii it bon, Li 





1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



most tubicolons annelides. The simple tubes range from two to 

 four lines in length b}- the one-fifth to the one-fourth of a line in 

 width. 



Manayunkia is very sensitive, and on disturbance withdraws 

 deeply into its tube, so that half the length of the latter may be 

 removed before reaching the worm. The little creature clings 

 tightly to the inside of its habitation, apparently mainlj' by 

 means of the minute podal hooks of the posterior segments of 

 the bod}'. 



The mature worm (fig. 1) is from three to four millimetres in 

 length b}' about one-fourth of a millimetre in breadth, and is 

 divided into twelve segments, including the head. The color is 

 translucent olive-green, with the cephalic tentacles of a slightly 

 brownish hue. As the worm shortens, the segments become more 

 bulging laterally and the constrictions deeper ; in elongation, the 

 segments become more cjdindrical and the constrictions less 

 marked. When the worm is elongated, it is of nearly uniform 

 width for about three-fourths of the length, and then slightl^^ 

 tapers to the end, or is a little widened again in the two segments 

 before the last. The head is about as broad as it is long, and is 

 surmounted b}' a pair of lateral lophophores supporting the ten- 

 tacles. Its border above projects dorsally into a short rounded 

 process. The succeeding four segments of the body are about 

 as broad as they are long, and nearly of uniform size ; the next 

 one is somewhat longer than those in advance. The seventh 

 segment, in all the mature worms observed, greatly exceeded any 

 of the others. It was usually twice the length, and differed from 

 them in having an abrupt expansion at the fore-pat t, which sug- 

 gested the production of a head prior to division of the worm ; 

 a process, however, if it occurs in Manayunkia^ I had not the 

 opportunity of observing. The succeeding segments, smaller 

 than the anterior ones, differ little in size, except the last two. 

 The terminal segment abruptlj' tapers from above its middle in an 

 obtusely rounded extremit}'. When the worm protrudes from its 

 tube, the lophophores are reflected from the head, and they 

 exhibit a double row of tentacles extending forward. The num- 

 ber of tentacles varies with the age of the worm, but at maturit}^ 

 there are usually eighteen for each lophophore. They are of 

 moderate length, and of uniform extent, and measure about half 

 a millimetre. Two of them internally, one for each lophophore, 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



are rather longer and larger than the others, and are rendered 

 conspicuous by a large vessel tilled with bright green blood. 

 The tentacles are invested with ciliated epithelium, with actively 

 moving cilia, and in all respects bear a close resemblance to those 

 of the polyzoa. In the allies of 3Ianayunkia, they are regarded 

 as branchial appendages, and usually named cirri; and although 

 this is'unquestionabl}^ correct, as in the case of the corresponding 

 organs of the pol^^zoa, the}' perform a varied function, and may, 

 with equal correctness, be called tentacles. 



"When 3Ianayunkia is about to withdraw into its tube, the 

 lophophores approach, and together with the tentacles form a 

 close longitudinal fascicle. Along the lophophores, at the base of 

 the tentacles, there is a row of half a dozen or more brownish pig- 

 ment spots, resembling ej'es, but not having the usual constitution 

 of such organs. The segments of the bod}' of Manayunkia, suc- 

 ceeding the head, are furnished on each side with a fascicle of 

 locomotive setffi, which is divided into two portions, one usually 

 consisting of shorter setae than the other. The fascicles, when 

 most protruded, project from a papilla, which disappears with the 

 partial retraction of the former. They are projected directly 

 outward or in a slanting manner either forward or backward, and 

 are moved in the same manner and by the same arrangement of 

 muscles as in other chsetopods. The number of podal setae is 

 from four to ten in each fascicle. In several mature individuals 

 the numbers in the different segments were as follows : 8 to 10 

 setae in the first to the sixth segment ; 6 to 7 in the three suc- 

 ceeding ones ; 4 or 5 in the tenth, and 3 or 4 in the last segment. 



The sette, figs. 3, 4, of the anterior segments are longest, and 

 range from about 0*15 to 0*25 mm. in length. They consist of a 

 long, straight rod, with a linear-lanceolate blade tapering into a 

 long filament. The rod varies little in length in the different 

 setie; but the blade A^aries considerably in this respect. The 

 blade is more or less bent from the rod, and is longest in the 

 longer setae. 



Except the head and the first setigerous segments, the others 

 are provided on each side with a fascicle of podal hooks, which 

 are situated ventrally behind the bottom of the podal setae. The 

 hooks are 4 or 5 in each fascicle in the setigerous segments from 

 the second to the eighth inclusive, and are very different from 

 those of the succeediug segments. The podal hooks, fig. 5, of the 




1883.] » NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 207 



anterior segments, are about 0"05 to 0"06 mm. long, and consist of 

 a long curved handle, ending in a small recurved hook. 



The podal hooks of the posterior three setigerous segments 

 form close transverse rows, fig. 6, of variable number, from 9 to 

 24 in each row. The hooks are minute, and measure from 0'025 

 O'O-S mm. long. They consist of a broad handle, ending in a lateral 

 comb-like extremity, as represented in figure 7. 



The number of podal setae and podal hooks is more or less 

 variable in the corresponding segments of different individuals, 

 and frequently also on the two sides of the segments of the same 

 individual. The difference is due sometimes to the accidental 

 loss of some of the appendages ; sometimes probably to circum- 

 stances interfering with their development. In several specimens 

 the following differences were observed : 



Specimen 1. 



First segment, 6 and 8 setae. 



Second to fourth segment, inclusive, 8 to 10 setae and 4 to 5 hooks. 



Fifth to eighth segment, inclusive, 6 to 8 setae and 4 to 5 hooks, 



Ninth segment, 6 setae and 9 and 22 hooks. 



Tenth segment, 4 setas and 12 and 18 hooks. 



Eleventh segment, 3 and 4 setae and 12 hooks on each side. 



Specimen 2, 

 First segment, 8 setae on each side. 

 Second to sixth segment, inclusive, 8 setae and 4 hooks on each 



side. 

 Seventh and eighth segments, 6 or 7 setfe and 4 hooks, except on 



one side of the eighth segment, in which another fascicle of 6 



setae substituted the usual fascicle of hooks. 

 Ninth segment, 6 setae on each side and 9 and 20 hooks. 

 Tenth segment, 4 and 5 setae and 13 and 16 hooks. 

 Eleventh segment, 3 and 4 setae and 12 hooks on each side. 



Specimen 3. 



First segment, 8 setae each side. 



Seven succeeding segments, 6 to 10 setae and 3 to 4 hooks each 



side. 

 Ninth segment, 7 setae and 24 hooks each side. 

 Tenth segment, 3 setae and 18 hooks, but on one side the latter 



were all imperfect, mostly with the comb undeveloped. 

 Eleventh segment, 2 setae and 14 hooks each side. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 4 [1883. 



In the last specimen the rows of 24 hooks in the ninth segment 

 measured 0*08 mm. wide; the rows of 18 hooks of the tenth seg- 

 ment 0-072 mm. wide ; and the rows of 14 hooks of the last segment 

 0-06 mm. wide. The height of the rows corresponding with the 

 length of the hooks was 0"025 mm. 



The intestinal canal of Manayunkia is of extreme simplicity, 

 consisting of a median tube alternately dilated within the segments 

 and contracted in the intervals of the latter, without any other 

 conspicuous division into more distinct portions. The widest 

 expansions are within the fourth to the seventh segment, inclusive, 

 but are also variable in these. Afterw^ards the intestine becomes 

 narrower to the anus, wiiich opens ventrally in the last segment. 

 The mouth is funnel-like, capacious, and without armature of any 

 kind. Along the intermediate two-thirds of the canal the walls 

 are of aj^ellowish brown hue. Within the intestine in the seventh 

 segment, and within the terminal portion, active ciliary motion was 

 observed. The intestine, as usual in other annelidcs, is connected 

 by thin diaphragms to the wall of the body-cavity in the intervals 

 of the segments. The intervals are occupied with liquid with 

 multitudes of floating corpuscles. 



The ovaries, with ova in different stages, occupy the fourth to 

 the sixth segment inclusive. Within the lower part of the head, 

 extending thence into the third segment on each side, there is a 

 large elliptical organ, which I have suspected to be the testicle, 

 though I did not examine its structure. 



I was greatly puzzled in the attempt to ascertain the arrange- 

 ment of the vascular system of Manayunkia^ and am in doubt as 

 to the following explanation I give of it. The blood is of a bright 

 green color, and in many positions serves clearly to define the 

 course of the larger vessels. As represented in figure 1, the 

 chief blood-vessels api)ear to be a large one on each side of the 

 intestinal canal, closely following the course of this so as to seem 

 to form a green coat to it. In each segment of the body the vessel 

 gives off a pair of lateral branches apparently uniting in a loop. 

 In the head the two main vessels leave the sides of the intestine, 

 and after forming a close flexure or a sinus at the base of each 

 lophophore, proceed onward through the interior of the larger pair 

 of tentacles. In viewing the worm in any direction, the two main 

 v'^essels so constantly appeared at the sides of the intestine, that 

 I at first took them for the walls of the latter itself. The condi- 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



tion I did not comprehend until I fonnd an explanation in the 

 following paragraph in Claparede's Reeherelies sur la structure 

 des Annelides Sedentaires, Geneva, 1873, page 76 : " M. de Quatre- 

 fages has discovered that in certain Serpuliens," to which family 

 Fahricia and Manayunkia belong, " the intestinal canal is enclosed 

 in a lacuna or rather a veritable sheath taking the place of a 

 dorsal vessel." Claparede adds from his own observations the 

 statement " that a number of the sedentary annelides present the 

 same peculiarity of having the intestine included in a vascular 

 sheath pla3-ing the part of a dorsal vessel." In this view the two 

 chief vessels, in figure 1, at the sides of the intestine, are to be 

 regarded as sections of the vascular sheath enclosing the latter. 

 The principal movement observed in the vessels of Manayunkia^ 

 consisted in an incessant pumping of blood into those of the two 

 larger tentacles alternating with contraction and partial expulsion 

 of blood from the same. 



The nervous sj'stem of Manayunkia I did not attempt to inves- 

 tigate. A well-developed eye occupied the head at the side of the 

 gullet. It exhibited a clear vitreous humor in a choroid cup. No 

 trace of e3es was to be detected in the terminal segment of the 

 body, such as exist in Fahricia. 



In several instances in which I have extracted Manayunkia 

 from its tube, a number of 3'oung ones, about half a dozen, have 

 been liberated, from which it appears that the eggs are laid within 

 the tube, there hatched, and the 3'Oung then retained under the 

 care of the parent until sufficiently developed to be able to care 

 for themselves. 



Figures 8-13, PI. IX, represent an ovum and a series of 30ung 

 in different stages of development, which were obtained together 

 with others in the same condition from three tubes. 



The ovum, fig. 8, about 0-2 mm. long, obtained with several 

 similar ones from a tube, exhibits a central mass of large 3olk- 

 cells enclosed by a la3'er of smaller ones. Fig. 9 represents an 

 embr3-o, which accompanied the former. It was motionless and 

 devoid of cilia. The 3'olk-cells appear to have been resolved 

 into a stomachal cavity. The embr3'o was about the same size 

 as the ovum. Fig. 10 represents a more advanced embr3-o, from 

 the same tube. It measured 0*265 mm. in length. The intestine 

 indicates a division into eight segments. Fig. 11 is a more 

 advanced stage of development of the worm from another tube. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



It measured one-third of a millimetre in length. The bod3'-wall 

 and intestine are quite distinct, the latter exhibiting eight seg- 

 ments. The tentacular lobes have commenced development. Fig. 

 12 represents an individual further developed, from the same tube 

 as the former. It measured half a millimetre long. The body is 

 distinctly divided into nine segments, of which eight bear a pair 

 of setce on each side. The tentacular lobes exhibit each the rudi- 

 ments of four tentacles. Eyes also have made their appearance. 

 Fig. 13 represents a young worm, from another tube, the only one 

 accompanying its parent. It measured 0'V2 mm. long. The body 

 is divided into the same number of segments as in the former. 

 The tentacular lobes have developed each four tentacles with the 

 rudiment of a fifth. Podal hooks could be detected in none of the 

 segments except the last, in which there were three comb-hooks on 

 each side. Another young individual observed, from another 

 tube, about the same size of the preceding, had five tentacles on 

 each side, but was otherwise exactly similar. Another individual 

 three-fourths of a millimetre long, with five tentacles on each side, 

 had one more setigerous segment than in the others. 



The species of Fabricia to which I referred in the beginning of 

 the present communication, and which I examined with particular 

 interest on account of the near relationship of Manayunkia to it, 

 is the same as that described by Prof. Yerrill, as being common 

 from Xew Haven to Yine^-ard Sound and at Casco Bay (see Report 

 on the Sea Fisheries of New England, Washington, 1873, p. 619). 

 I first noticed the worm at Newport, Rhode Island, in 1858, and 

 found it abundantly at Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Mass., in 1882. 

 It occurred on rocks between tides, under a luxuriant growth of 

 Fiicus vesiculosus^ yvith. its tubes projecting from among the mud 

 and sand firmlj' fixed together with multitudes of little mussels 

 about the roots of the sea-weed. 



The worm is three or four millimetres long and of a 3'ellowish 

 or 3'ellowish brown hue, with more or less reddish. The bod}' is 

 compressed c^'lindrical and slightly tapering behind, and is 

 divided into twelve segments, including the head. This is pro- 

 longed dorsally in a half elliptical process or upper lip. The 

 vertex supports on each side a trifurcate lophophore, each fork 

 of which is provided with a double row of narrow c^'lindrical 

 tentacles invested with cilia. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



The segments succeeding the head are furnished with lateral 

 fascicles of podal seta?, and, except the first one, are provided 

 with fascicles of podal hooks, all of which have the same general 

 arrangement and form as those described in Manayunkia. The 

 fascicles of podal seta?, from the first to the eighth segments, usu- 

 ally contain six or seven setie ; those of the ninth and tenth 

 segments, three or four seta? ; and those of the eleventh segment 

 two or three setse. The longer sette, figs. 14, 15, resemble those 

 of Manayunkia, consisting of a straight rod with a feather-like 

 vane ending in a long point and bent at an obtuse angle from the 

 rod. The stouter seta?, fig. 16, have the same form, but differ 

 in the variably much shorter proportion of the vane. The setae 

 range from 0*12 to 0*25 mm. long. 



The first setigerous segment possesses no podal hooks, as in the 

 case of Manayunkia. The fascicles in the succeeding segments 

 to the fourth contain each eight or nine hooks, and those following 

 to the eighth, inclusive, six or seven hooks. Tlie hooks of the 

 remaining three segments, as in Manayunkia^ are ver^^ different 

 from those of the anterior segments, and are arranged in close 

 transverse semicircular rows of from 20 to 28 in each row. 



The anterior podal hooks consist of a curved handle ending in 

 a short robust hook, like those of Manayunkia, but differing in 

 the hook being furcate, or even divided three or four times on 

 the dorsum, as represented in figs. 17, 18. These podal hooks 

 usually measure about O'OS mm, long. 



The posterior podal hooks resemble the corresponding ones of 

 Manayunkia as represented in fig. 19. Thej^ measure from 0'035 

 to 0"04 mm. long. 



The intestinal canal of Fabricia has the same simple character 

 as that described in Manayunkia. The mouth has a pair of palp- 

 like appendages, situated between the lophophores. The vascular 

 system appears to exhibit the same arrangement as in Manayunkia, 

 but the blood is of a red color. 



Fahricia is remarkable for being furnished with a pair of e^'es 

 to the terminal segment of the body as well as to ihe head. The 

 ej'es are of simple character, but equally well developed at both 

 extremities'of the body. The}^ consist of a black pigment cup, 

 including a spheroidal vitreous body. In several instances I 

 observed a curious variation of the ej-es in different individuals 

 and on the diflTerent sides of the same individual. Fig. 20 repre- 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



sents the usual form of the cephalic eye. Figs. 21 and 22 represent 

 the two eyes of the same individual, the right eye apparently 

 double. Fig. 2.3 represents another double eye, but with the lens 

 directed backward. Fig. 24 represents a caudal eye. 



The tube of Fahricia is composed of exceedingly fine particles 

 of quartzose sand and indefinite particles of mud. 



I observed no specimens of this genus, exhibiting the repro- 

 ductive organs in the condition usual in mature ones of 3fana- 

 yunkia. 



In several instances I observed a few free eggs and young worms 

 of 0-12 mm. in length within tubes in company with the parent, 

 but did not have the opportunit}'^ of investigating them. 



Manayankia mainly differs from Fahricia in having a pair of 

 simple or undivided tentacular lophophores instead of having 

 them trilobate; in the possession of an inner pair of larger ten- 

 tacles which receive a continuation of the main trunks of the 

 vascular system; and in having no eyes to the terminal segment 

 of the bod}'. 



EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES OF PLATE IX. 



Fig. 1. Manayunkia spectosa. Magnified about 50 diameters. The 



worm in the ordinary condition of extension, with its tentacles 



spread. 

 Fig. 2. A stock of five tubes. Magnified about 4 diameters. 

 Fig. 3. Oue of the longer podal setae from the second setigerous segment 



oi the body. 666 diameters. 

 Fig. 4. One of the shorter podal setae, from the same. 666 diameters. 

 Fig. 5. A podal book, from the same. 666 diameters, ■ 



Fig. 6. A row of podal hooks, from the last segment of the body. 250 



diameters. 

 Fig. 7. A podal hook from the same row. 666 diameters. 

 Fig. 8-13. Egg and different degrees of development of the young of 



Manayunkia. 100 diameters. 

 Fig. 14-16. Podal setas of Fahricia Leidyii, Verrill. 500 diameters. 

 Fig. 17, 18. Podal hooks of anterior segments. 500 diameters. 

 Fig. 19. Podal hook of posterior segment. 666 diameters. 

 Fig. 20-24. ^■^es, oi Fahricia. 250 diameteis. 

 Fig. 20. A cephalic eye of the usual form. 



Fig. 21, 22. Ri-ht and left cephalic eyes of the same individual. 

 Fig. 23. A double cephalic eye. 

 Fig. 24. . A caudal eye. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21.3 



NOTE ON A COLLECTION OF FOSSILS FROM THE HAMILTON (DEVONIAN) 

 GBOUP OF PIKE CO., PA. 



BY PROF. ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



Among a small collection of invertebrate fossils obtained from 

 the Hamilton rocks of the vicinit3' of Diugman's Ferry, Pike Co., 

 by Drs. E. C. Hine and J. Holt of this city, and now in their 

 possession, I have been able to identify the following species 

 and genera. Most of these are probably not new to the State, 

 but inasmuch as the palseontology of Pennsylvania has been but 

 very imperfectly (indeed, one might so}', not at all) worked up, 

 and the fossils there occurring, although known in some part to 

 amateur collectors, but very si>aringly recorded, it has appeared 

 to the writer that the publication of the present list, as well as of 

 others of a similar character to follow, may not prove entirely use- 

 less, tending toward a more complete knowledge of the extinct 

 fauna of the State. 



ACTIXOZOA. 



Heliophijllura Halli. 



Mollusc A. 

 Fenestella, sp. indet. Aviculopecten duplicatus? or 



Crania Hamiltoniae. A. scabridiis ? 



Spirifer viucronatus. Limoptera inacroptera. 



Spirifer granidiferus. Paracyclas lirata. 



Spirifer medians'^ Grammysia bisulcata. 



Streptorhynchus.Chemungensis. Orthoceras (impression). 

 Orthis^ sp. indet. Nautilus or Goniatites (septal 



Chonetes, sp. seligera ? lines too imperfectly preserved 



for generic determination). 



Crustacea. 

 Phacops hufo^ a complete specimen and several tail-pieces. 

 Homalonotus Dekayi, several well-preserved fragments unques- 

 tionably belonging to this species. 



Crinoid stems or impressions belonging to several distinct 

 species are common in the rock-masses. It may be noted that 

 Prof. I. C. White, during his survey of Pike and Monroe counties, 

 was unable to discover any traces of trilobites in the rocks of this 

 series. " Not a single specimen of a Trilohite was observed in all 

 this thickness of rock at the many localities where it is exposed 

 for observation within the district" ( Second Geological Survej' of 

 Pennsylvania, Report of Progress, G 6, p 112, 1881). 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



ON THE ANATOMY OF ANCYLUS FLXIVIATILIS 0. F. MUUer AND 

 ANCYLUS LACUSTKIS GeofiFroy. 



BY BENJAMIN SHARP, M. D., PH. D. 



This paper first was written in German, and served as an 

 inaugural dissertation for the Philosophical faculty at the Uni- 

 versity of Wiirzburg, in Bavaria. In rewriting it I have merely 

 omitted a few unimportant details, and made one or two slight 



changes. 



Introduction. 



The position of these little animals in the system of classifica- 

 tion was long a subject of dispute. At first they were placed by 

 Linnaeus^ in the genus Patella^ but in the same year (1767) 

 Gcoffroy^ formed an especial genus for them, which he called 

 Ancylus, on account of the resemblance of the shell to a Phygean 



cap (A'yx»'^o;). 



The specimens of Jluviatilis, which I had for examination, were 

 obtained in the Main near Wiirzburg, and in a branch of the same 

 near Gemiinden — the only place in which the other species could 

 be had was in a small pond near Aschaffenburg. 



The work was carried on in the laboratory of Prof. C. Semper, 

 at Wiirzburg, and I here take the opportunity of expressing my 

 sincere thanks to him for his kindly advice and assistance. 



Ferussac placed this genus, in 1837, among the Pulmonata, to 

 which order it undoubtedly belongs. 



Moquin-Tandon ^ believed that Ancylus was amphibian in its 

 habits. I do not believe that the animal under natural and healthy 

 conditions ever approaches the surface of the water. He says : 

 " Does the animal breathe free air or that air dissolved in water?" 

 Ferussac ^ said positively that the animal was compelled to come 

 to the surface to breathe. L. Agassiz,^ Dej^uy, and others, were 

 of the same opinion. To prove this, Moquin-Tandon ® made the 

 following experiments : — 



1 Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., 1767. 



2 Geoflfroy, Trait, somm. d. Coquil fluv. et ten-es., etc., Paris, 1767. 



^ Moquin-Tandon, Recher. anatomico-physiol. sur I'Ancyle fluviatile 

 {Ancylus flunatilis), Journal de Concbyliologie, Tome iii, 1853, p. 124. 



* Ferussac, Diet, class, d. Hist. Nat., Tome i, 1822. 

 ^ L. Agassiz, Act. Helvit., 1841. 



* Recher. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., pp. 124-126. 




PROC. A, N, s, phila; 



PL X. 



r:^4a. 



fmm r^f. 





SHARP ON ANCYLUS. 





1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 215 



Many animals were placed in a vessel of water, and the follow ing 

 facts were observed : 



1. That not all the animals found the need of coming to the 

 surface to breathe, and that manj^ stayed at the bottom of the 

 vessel. 



2. That the need of air did not seem very strong, as they came 

 slowly to the surface. 



3. That certain individuals remained in the upper portion of 

 the fluid. 



4. That man}' went onl}' partially out of the water. 



5. That others left the water entirely', but remained in the 

 neighborhood of it. 



These and other facts show that they breathe air and are not 

 water animals. Further on he says : — 



1. Seven animals were placed in tall champagne-glasses, which 

 were filled with water ; in the middle of the glass was placed a 

 partition, so that the animals could not come to the surface ; the 

 water, however, could freel}- circulate. The animals lived three 

 daj's, at which time they were taken out. 



2. Three individuals were placed in 45 cu. mm. of well-water, 

 and these lived only eight hours. 



3. Six Ancyli were placed- for three daj^s in 25, 30 and 50 

 cu. mm. of river-water ; all remained living and some deposited 

 eggs. 



This last experiment seems to prove that they are not amphib- 

 ious. 



I made essentially the same experiments with the same results, 

 and further found that when the Ancyli were placed in aquaria, 

 in which there was running water, the}' never came to the surface ; 

 if, however, the water was not fresh, they would invariably come 

 to the surf;\ce of the water. I think, therefore, that the apparent 

 amphibian habits are due to the fact that the water was not suffi- 

 ciently aerated. Probably the cause of such rapid death in the 

 case of the animals that were placed in the well-water, was the 

 presence in it of such a small percentage of air. 



I will first take up the anatom}- of both species in general, and 

 describe the differences between them, and then consider the 

 special part, which consists in : — 



1. Formation of the radula. 



2. Observations on the nervous system. 



3. The anatomy of the excretory organ. 




216 proceedings of the academy op [1883. 



General Anatomy. 



In the following description I will first consider the anatomy of 

 A. JluviotiJis as a basis, for the anatomy of this is tolerably well 

 known from the papers of Carl Yogt ^ and Moquin-Tandon.^ The 

 first paper is short and incomplete, containing at the same time 

 many mistakes, while the latter, unfortunatel}', is without plates. 

 On A. lacustrii^ no paper has as yet appeared, as far as I know. 



The shell of A. jiuviatilis is much larger than that of A. lacus- 

 (ris. In both species the form is that of a depressed cone and of 

 a dirt}" brown color. In A. Jiuviatilis it is said ^ that the shell is 

 "wound to the left. I have never as yet seen a shell of A. Jiuvia- 

 tilis which was in the least unsymmetrical, for the apex of all the 

 specimens that I have examined la}^ in the median line, onl}' rolled 

 a little backwards. 



In A. lacudris^ however, the apex of the shell is wound slightly 

 to the right, and this character has been considered sufficient to 

 place this form in a separate genus, that of Acroloxus (Beck, 

 1837), or Vellitia (Gray, 1840), which, however, is not generally 

 accepted. 



The opening of the shell (aperfura) is oval in both species; in 

 A. laciistris, however, it is a much longer oval than in A. Jiuvia- 

 tilis. 



The shell contains such a quantity of conchj'olin, that if it be 

 throw-n into an acid and left there until all the carbonate of lime 

 be dissolved away, the organic framework of conchyolin remains 

 perfect and the form unchanged. 



If a piece of this be placed under the microscope a large number 

 of the siliceous cases of diatomes are seen. This is easily 

 explained : the diatomes are found in large quantities on the 

 objects on which the Ancyli are found, and as they are so small, 

 they can easily pass between the mantle and the shell and then 

 become covered b}^ a laj^er of mother-of-pearl or nacre which is 

 secreted by the external surface of the mantle and by which the 

 shell grows in thickness. This process of imbedding diatomes in 

 nature is similar to that effected artificially by the Chinese, when 

 they place their little leaden images between the mantle and the 



' Bemerkungen iiber den Bau der Ancylus fiuviitilis. Archiv fiir Anat. 

 und Physiol. (Miiller), 1841. 



' Recher. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc. 



* C. Claus, Grundziige d. Zoologie, Marburg, 1880-82, and othei-s. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



shells of bivalves, and allow them to become coated with mother- 

 of-pearl.' 



The mantle. — If the shell be carefully removed from the animal, 

 the form of the body is found to be like that of the shell, namely, 

 a depressed cone, and covered with a thin white membrane, the 

 mantle. The base of the mantle, or that part which comes in 

 contact with the aperture of the shell, is thickened and separated 

 from the bodj', so that a deep groove is found running around the 

 foot bounded externally by the internal surface of the mantle. 

 The deepest point of this groove is at that point where the mantle 

 and foot join. From this point, or the base of the groove 

 (looking at the animal from below), hangs the gill, between the 

 foot and the mantle, on the left side in A. Jluviatilis, and on the 

 right in A. lacudris. The inferior portion of the external surface 

 of the mantle has a deposit of black pigment ; this band of black 

 pigment is not present in A. lacustria. 



Organ of locomotion. — The only organ of locomotion is the 

 foot, which is an oval muscular disk. The shape is like that of the 

 aperture of the shell to which it belongs. The foot is foi'med of 

 muscular fibres which run in four different directions, and between 

 which the lacunae or blood-spaces are found. One sj-stem of mus- 

 cular fibres passes from before backward (longitudinal fibres) ; 

 another, perpendicular to these, passes from side to side (transverse 

 fibres). The other two systems are continuations of the muscle 

 that binds the body to the shell. These latter fibres pass perpen- 

 dicularl}- from the shell, and entering the foot, spread out fan-like 

 into it, so that some of the fibres are almost horizontal and 

 others almost perpendicular to the sole of the foot ; these may be 

 called lateral fibres. The animal holds itself to objects on which 

 it creeps, b}' the foot, which'acts like a sucker. If the animal be 

 disturbed it draws the shell tightly downwards so that the soft parts 

 are completely covered by the shell and thus protected. The 

 movement of Ancylus is very slow. It never swims, as does, for 

 example, Limnseua, on the surface of the water, as Gray and 



' An interesting account of this process may be found in F. Hague, 

 Ueber d. natiirliche u. kiinstliche Bildubg der Perlen ; and C. Th. von 

 Siebold, Ueber d. Perlenbildung chinesischer Siisswasser-iluschehi, als 

 Zusatz z. d. vorhergohenden Aufsatz. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. viii, 

 1857. 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Turton ^ observed. Moquin-Tandon ^ states that lie had never 

 observed the animal creeping or swimming on the surface of the 

 water. 



The shell of the animal is fastened to the body by a muscle, 

 which, as already said, passes perpendicularly from the shell and 

 enters the foot obliquel^^, and with which it coalesces, forming with 

 the foot the sides and floor of the visceral cavity respectively. 

 In the figure (PI. X, fig. 1) we have a cross-section of the animal 

 about the middle, drawn with a camera lucida, and to which I 

 have added the lines s, which represent a cross-section of the shell. 

 The letters m c represent the musculus cochlearis, which enters 

 the sides of the foot ; q m are the transverse fibres. The longi- 

 tudinal fibres are not represented, as they are transversely cut 

 and onl}' appear as points. 



In the musculus cochlearis of the left side in A. fiuviatilis and 

 on the right of A. lacustris a cavity is found in which the heart 

 is situated. The walls of this cavity form the pericardium. 



The gill.- — In the space between the foot and the mantle in A. 

 Jiuviatilis on the left side is found a broad, leaf-like fold of the 

 integument, the gill. This fold or gill reaches down as far as the 

 lower border of the mantle. In the figure (PI. X, fig. 1) the gill 

 {k) is represented on the right side of the section, although really 

 on the left side of the animal, and we must imagine that we are 

 looking at the animal from the front. The gill is one-third as 

 long as the whole animal and lies in the middle third of the 

 body. In the living animal it is of a lighter color than the sur- 

 rounding tissues and the surface of it is smooth. Although the 

 gill of A. lacustris is on the right side of the animal, its relative 

 position is the same as in A. Jiuviatilis. The space between the 

 foot and the mantle, into which the ^ill hangs, maj^ be called the 

 iDranchial chamber. 



I believe that the organ which Moquin-Tandon ^ speaks of as 

 the lobe auriforme is what 1 prefer to call the gill. It is physio- 

 logicalh'^ one, as we will presentl}' see. 



The whole surface of the gill is covered with ciliated epithelium, 

 and the internal part is formed of cutis, consisting of loose 

 connective-tissue fibres which run in all directions and between 



' Manual of Shells, ed. ii, 1840. 



^ Recher. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 35. 



^ Recher. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 12. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



which the blood-spaces (lacunae) are found. A long continuous 

 one runs the whole length of the inferior border of the gill, and is 

 in connection with the mantle-vein. The nuclei of the connective- 

 tissue fibres are ver}- distinct ; the rectum passes perpendicularly 

 through the tissues of the middle of the gill, and o[)ens at the 

 anus, situated on the external surftice. 



Several organs open into the branchial chamber ; in the middle 

 of the external surface of the gill, as said, opens the anus. In 

 A. la oust ris,yvhen the gill is on the right side the rectum and anus 

 also are on that side. Close behind the base of the left tentacle in 

 A.Jluviatilis, is found the male genital pore or opening, and close 

 behind this the female; as with the anus, these openings are on 

 the right side of A. lacustris; in A. Jluviatilis, on the internal 

 surface of the left mantle, is found tlie minute opening of the 

 excretory organ, the kidney, which lies embedded in the tissues of 

 the mantle ; in A. lacustris the kidnej" is on the right side ; thus 

 we see that four organs open into the branchial chamber, the S 

 and 9 genital openings, the anus, and the kidne}'. 



The alimentary canal. — The mouth, which opens on the inferior 

 surface of the bod}', is surrounded by three lips ; the two anterior 

 lips are placed together so that they form an inverted V (A); the 

 open part of the Y is closed bj' the under lip, which is the extreme 

 anterior end of the sole of the foot. 



The mouth leads into a small tube, which passes perpendicularly 

 upwards, opening on the floor of the buccal mass ( Plate X, fig. 2 m). 

 About half-wa}' between the mouth and the buccal mass is situated 

 the horseshoe-shaped jaw, which is placed in the anterior wall of 

 the tube. The jaw consists of a single membrane of conchjolin, 

 upon which are situated numerous little teeth or denticles. 

 Moquin-Tandon says, however, that ^^ Ancylus possesses three 

 jaws, disposed as those in Limnseus — a transverse one above, and 

 two vertical ones on the sides, * * * the borders of which 

 are formed of a series of little denticles."^ I do not find this to 

 be exactl}' the case, but agree with Keferstein, who says : '• In 

 Ancylus we see, instead of the simple jaw, a large number of long 

 pieces, which are tolerably symmetrically ai-ranged, and encircle 



' UAncyle possede trois machoires, disposees comme celles des Limnees, 

 une transversale, en haut et deux verticle, sur le cotes * * * celles des 

 bords forraeut comme une serie de petites deuticules : Recbe. auat. 

 pbysiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 16. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



the upper (anterior) side of the cavity of the mouth." ^ These 

 long pieces are the denticles. 



The buccal mass, "which is of a spheroidal form, lies in the head, 

 between the two tentacles. Immediately over the mouth is found 

 the opening of the a?sophagus, and in the middle between these 

 two openings projects the tongue, which is covered b}' the radula. 

 The odontophore is in Ancrjlus exceptionally long, and reaches 

 from the buccal mass to the middle of the bod3^ The opening of 

 the odontophore lies in the superior part of the buccal mass : the 

 first part of the odontophore itself lies sunken in a groove of the 

 buccal mass, so that seen from the side it appears to spring from 

 the posterior wnll. 



The diagramatic figure (PI. X, fig. 2) represents a longitudinal 

 section of the odontophore {od), which opens into the spheroidal 

 buccal mass. In the figure the odontophore is relatively much 

 shorter than it is in reality. 



After the odontophore leaves the buccal mass it passes back- 

 wards, lying directly under the oesophagus and parallel with it ; 

 then it passes in A. Jiiiviatilis to the right, and in A. lacustris to 

 the left side. The oesophagus and odontophore are at the position 

 of insertion in the buccal mass, separated from one another by 

 the commissure of the buccal ganglia. Soon after leaving this 

 commissure the odontophore passes to the side and then upwards 

 and over the ojsophagus, so that in the latter part of its course it 

 lies above it. 



The alimentary canal has in both species nearly the same form, 

 except that the windings are different. The (esophagus arises in 

 the middle of the superior and anterior angle of the buccal mass, 

 directly over the position where the mouth enters from below (PI. 

 X, fig. 2oe). 



The salivary glands open b^- a ver^' short duct into the oesoph- 

 agus, immediately' behind the position of its exit from the buccal 

 mass. These glands are two in number, and lie on the side of the 

 oesophagus. 



The stomach is of a good size and spheroidal in form, the walls 

 are thick and muscular. It is embedded in the liver, which lies 



^ Bel Ancylns sehen wir an die Stelle der einfachen Kiefers ein grosse 

 Menge kleiner liinglichbr Stiicke treten, welche ziemlich symmetrisch 

 angeordnet, die Oberseite der Mundhohle umgiirten. Broua's Klass. u. 

 Ord. d. Thierreichs, Bd. ill, 2 Abtb., 1862-1866, p. 1190. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



beneath, behind and, \n A. Jluviatilis^ on the right side; the left 

 side being covered by the albuminous gland. In A. lacustris the 

 relation is only reversed, so that the liver lies on the left side of 

 the stomach and the albuminous gland on the right. 



The intestine passes from the stomach at about the middle of 

 its superior wall and then passes into the liver, forming a loop, 

 which is clearly- visible when the shell is removed in A.Jiamatilis^ 

 but difficult to be seen in A. lacustris. After a few turns it passes 

 to the left side of A . fluviatilis and to the right in A. lucuslris, 

 and proceeds downwards, entering the gill and opening on the 

 external surface of the same. 



I will here call attention to a peculiar ring of long C3'lindrical 

 epithelial cells which lies in the walls of the rectum in A.flaviatilis. 

 It is in the middle of that part of the rectum which lies in the gill. 

 These cells are ciliated, as are indeed the epithelial cells of the 

 whole intestine. 



The physiological significance of the cells forming the ring I 

 have in no way been able to determine. 



In both species the liver is large and fills up the greater part of 

 the bod3'-cavit3'. It consists of a number of follicles ; each follicle 

 is formed of an external tunica propria and an internal layer of 

 large cells. These cells secrete the bile, which is led into the 

 intestine, close behind its exit from the stomach, by means of 

 three ciliated ducts. 



The vascular system. — As the vascular system of Ancylus 

 differs so little from that of mollusca in general, it is not neces- 

 sary to go into details. The heart, which is an arterial one, is 

 formed of two parts, an auricle and a ventricle. In A. Jluviatilis 

 it lies on the left side of the body above the gill and in advance 

 of the rectum. The auricle, the smaller of the two parts, is 

 divided from the ventricle by a contraction, and at this point a 

 valve is found opening into the ventricle. From the end of the 

 ventricle arises the aorta, which soon divides into two branches ; 

 one of these passes to the head {Arteria cephalica) and the other 

 supplies the viscera. These two branches divide into smaller ones, 

 and finally open into the body-cavit}', where the}'' pour out their 

 blood. The blood, which can freely circulate in this cavitj', is 

 collected into the lacunae of the foot which open in the floor of 

 the bod^'-cavity. One of these lacunae, which can almost receive 

 the name of vein, passes from the foot into the mantle and becomes 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



connected with another large lacuna, the mantle-vein, which lies 

 above the tubular part of the kiclne3\ It then sends a branch 

 downwards into the gill, and after passing through this, again 

 becomes joined to the mantle-vein, so that both pass into the 

 auricle together. 



The heart lies in a closed sack, the pericardium, on the external 

 walls of which it is fastened (PI. X, fig. 3 Ht). The external wall 

 of the pericardium is only separated from the shell by the mantle, 

 while the other parts lie in contact with the musculus cochlearls. 

 The wall of the pericardium consists of a tunica of connective 

 tissue, in which, here and there, the nuclei can be distinctly seen. 

 The lobe auri forme of Moquin-Tandon ^ is intimately connected 

 with the vascular S3'stem, and seems to aerate the blood, and 

 ph3siologicall_y is a gill. 



The generative organs. — Ancylus, as is well-known, is her- 

 maphroditic. The hermaphroditic gland or ovitestis, in which 

 sperma as well as ova are formed, lies in the superior and posterior 

 part of the body, immediately below the apex of the shell. In 

 A. fiuviatilis it lies in the median line, while in A. lacustris, where 

 the apex of the shell is wound to the right, the ovitestis also is 

 on the right side of the median. 



When the shell is removed from the animal, the ovitestis is 

 easily seen by its having a much lighter color than the sur- 

 rounding parts. 



The larger part of the genitals in A. Jluviaiilis is on the left 

 side of the body, and in A. lacustris on the right side. Stephanoff ^ 

 believes that albumen is secreted b}- the epithelial cells of the ovi- 

 testis. I cannot indorse this belief, as I never observed albumen 

 in the ovitestis, and, further, there is a well-developed albumen- 

 secreting gland present which opens into the oviduct. This 

 albuminous gland has been described by C. Yogt ^ and Moquin- 

 Tandon.^ 



I do not consider it necessary to enter into a detailed account 

 of the genitals, as they have been completely described by 



' Recher. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 12. 



''■ Ueber d. Geschlechtsorgane u. Entwickl. v. Ancylus fluviatilis. Mem. 

 de I'Acad. d. Science d. St. Petersbourg, Tome X, No. 8, 1866, p. 3. 

 ^ Bemerk. ii. d. Ban d. Ancylus fluv., etc. 

 *■ Recber. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 540. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



Moquin-Tandon ^ ; suffice to say that Stephanoff,^ in his descrip- 

 tion of these organs, made many blunders, and at the same time 

 did not seem to have known of the existence of Moquin-Tandon 's 

 work. 



I. — The Formation of the Radula. 



The radula is formed in the odontophore. This consists of four 

 parts, which can be best understood by a reference to the figures. 

 Fig. 4 a (PI. X) represents a horizontal section through the 

 posterior portion of the odontophore. Fig. 4 6 (PL X) is a trans- 

 verse section of the same. Both figures serve to illustrate the 

 four parts making up the odontophore. 



First, we have to distinguish the- tongue-papilla (PI. X, fig. 

 4 ac), which fills up the interior of the odontophore; this is 

 surrounded, as is seen in the drawing, by the radula (r). Ex- 

 ternal to the radula is the epithelium of the radula. If we make 

 a transverse section through the odontophore (fig. 4 6), we find 

 that the radula (r) has the form of the letter U, and consequently 

 does not entirely surround the papilla, while the epithelium of 

 the radula (s) encircles its external surface. At the open part of 

 the letter U, where the radula is wanting, the epithelium passes 

 gradually into the papilla. 



The line x in the transverse section (fig. 4 6, PI. X) represents 

 the position of the horizontal section (fig. 4 a). 



The only part not mentioned now is the fourth and most impor- 

 tant of all. I propose to describe it in Helix aperta, as the parts 

 in this form are larger and more distinct than in Ancylus. 



Fig. 5 (PL X) represents the posterior part of the odontophore, 

 drawn by a camei'a lucid a. It represents that part of the odon- 

 tophore which is enclosed by the bracket (a) in fig. 4 a. 



In the drawing we see at that point where the tongue-papilla 

 coalesces with the epithelium of tlie radula, five large, sharplj' 

 defined cells (i, ^, 5, 4 and 5), which I propose calling the matrix 

 of the radula — thus difiering from other writers on the subject, 

 who have not seen these cells, and who call the matrix that part 

 to which I have given the name of tongue-papilla. 



Before I pass to the formation of the radula I will first take up 

 the histology of the separate parts of the odontophore in Helix 

 aperta. 



^ Recher. anat. physioL s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 337. 

 ^ U. d. Gescblectsorg. u. d. Entwick. von Anc, etc. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



As has already been described by Semper,' the tongue-papilla 

 consists of two layers. The internal layer is formed of loose 

 connective tissue, the fibres of which run in every direction, and 

 in which can be distinctly seen the large fusiform nuclei; most of 

 these nuclei are bipolar, although here and there a cripolar one 

 can be seen. 



The external layer of the tongue-papilla is made up of cells 

 which possess a large nucleus, and the cell-wall, if seen at all, 

 is ver}'^ faintly evident ; this layer seems more to be a homo- 

 geneous mass of protoplasm, in which are embedded large numbers 

 of nuclei ; here and there fine lines may be seen, which may be 

 regarded as the cell-walls (PI. X, fig. 5 m). This layer comes in 

 close contact with the radula and its teeth. The axes of these oval 

 nuclei seem to have a definite direction. In the posterior part 

 the}' are all directed to the point where the radula begins, while 

 those further forward become perpendicular to the radula itself. 



When the object is well stained the difference between these 

 two parts of the tongue-papilla is distinctly seen ; the loose 

 internal part being of a light color, while the external part, rich 

 in nuclei, takes a very dark shade. 



In Ancylus the demarkation between these two parts is not so 

 pronounced as in Helix. The peripheral part of the tongue-papilla, 

 rich in nuclei, passes gradually into the loose, pale, internal part 

 (PI. X, fig. 5 a). 



The epithelium of the radula, s (PI. X, fig. 5), is composed of a 

 single layer of long cylindrical epithelial cells, with well-defined 

 nuclei and distinct cell-walls. These cells are much longer at the 

 posterior part of this layer, i. e., at the point where they lie in 

 contact with the matrix of the radula, than those nearer the mouth. 

 The larger cells rest obliquely on the tunica and parallel to the 

 large cells of the matrix ; as they become shorter they become 

 more and more perpendicular, as is seen in the figure (PI. X,fig. 5 s). 

 The nuclei are small, although with a high power they can be dis- 

 tinctly seen. When thus examined they haA-e the same general 

 appearance of nuclei, and are placed in that part of the cell 

 nearest to the tunica. 



Between these long cylindrical cells of the epithelium of the 

 radula and the posterior part of the odontophore are seen five 



1 Zuui feiaeru Bau der MoUusken-Zunge. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. 

 ix, 1858. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



veiy large cylindrical cells (PI. X, fig. 5, 1^ ^, 5, 4. and 5), to 

 which I have given the name of matrix. When a horizontal 

 section is examined these cells are very striking and easily dis- 

 tinguished b}^ their having a much lighter color than the sur- 

 rounding parts ; each one of these five cells has a peculiar and 

 characteristic form. The cell marked 1 stands obliquely to the 

 tunica, and that end farthest from the tunica is rounded or dome- 

 shaped ; all the other of these five cells, with the exception of 4, 

 are pointed at the corresponding extremity, and also placed 

 obliquely to the tunica. In 4. this condition is reversed, the 

 pointed extremity being nearest to, but not touching, the tunica. 

 The blunt end of this cell is in contact with the radula, and the 

 point is inserted between cells 3 and 5. 



The protoplasm of these five cells of the matrix is quite clear, 

 taking onl}^ a slight reddish tinge with borax (Grenadier's) car- 

 mine. There is not the slightest trace of a granulated structure 

 to be found. The nuclei of these cells are ver}' large and oval in 

 form; their size is about twice that of the nuclei that are found 

 in the neighboring tongue-papilla (PI. X, fig. 5 m). The structure 

 of these nuclei differs somewhat among themselves ; some contain 

 onl}^ one nucleolus, in others it is more or less broken up, and 

 others still have a granular appearance. 



The cells 1,2 and 3 form the basal membrane (PI. X, B. 31.) 

 and cell 4 the bases of the teeth. The convex end of cell 1 

 secretes a mass of conchy olin, which is the beginning of the basal 

 membrane. The posterior part of this membrane, namel}', that 

 part which lies against cell 1 in the figure (fig. 5), has the appear- 

 ance of a hook, the point of which lies between cells 1 and 5, just 

 overlapping the tip of the point of 2. These three cells are those 

 which take part in the formation of the basal membrane of the 

 radula, the cell 3 forming the upper, and cell 1 the lower face of 

 this so-called hook, and cell 2 probably adds a little to the point. 

 This hook-like appearance is only present in longitudinal sections. 

 In realitj^ naturally, this part of the basal membrane is not a 

 hook, but a sharp edge, which is curled over and fits into a groove 

 formed by two rows of cells ; cells like cell 1 (fig. 5) forming the 

 anterior, and cfeUs like cell 2 forming the posterior wall. 



The formation of the teeth is carried on by the cell marked 4- 

 This is triangular in shape with the base abutting the posterior 

 face of the tooth, d (PI. X, fig. 5). I believe that this cell 4 is 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



formed b3^ division from cell 5, and dies when the tooth is fully 

 formed, aud the remains of this cell are carried forward between 

 the teeth as the radnla advances. This can be the only way, for 

 if the cell remained living and continued to secrete conchyolin 

 instead of a series of teeth, we would have simply a solid layer 

 formed on the top of the basal membrane. B3' a continuous 

 secretion of the cells 1 and S, the basal membrane moves or is 

 pushed forward, and thus carries the tooth (d) along with it ; after 

 this has proceeded for a short distance (viz., the distance of the 

 space between the teeth), a new cell, which has been formed from 

 cell 5, is ready to commence secreting again, and a new tooth or 

 transverse row of teeth begins to form, and thus the process con- 

 tinues. 



The caps of the teeth are shaded darkly in the figure (PI. X, 

 fig. 5), and are formed after the base of this is completed 

 by cell 4' The caps are formed by the cells that make up the 

 external layer of the tongue-papilla. If the preparation has been 

 colored with picro- or borax-carmine the basal membrane and 

 bases of the teeth do not color, or onl^^ take a slight tinge, while 

 the caps of the teeth are colored darkly. This shows, I should 

 think, that the basal membrane with the bases of the teeth and 

 the caps are of two different formations. 



The covering of the odontophore, which maj" be called the 

 sheath, consists of two layers. The internal, c' (PI. X, fig. 5), 

 which is made up of a simple laj'er of connective-tissue cells, 

 passes directh^ into the internal or loose part of tlie tongue- 

 papilla (f), and it seems that this layer is merel}* a continuation 

 of this part of the papilla. The external layer of the sheath, 

 which covers the whole of the odontophore and is continuous 

 with that which covei's the buccal mass, consists of a more com- 

 pact layer of connective-tissue fibres, in which, as in the internal 

 layer, distinct nuclei may be seen. 



In the odontophore the teeth of the radula are directed back- 

 ward. The radula p.isses from the posterior part of the odonto- 

 phore and extends to the opening in the buccal mass, over the 

 tongue, where it makes a bend and returns on the under surface of 

 the tongue ; the teeth are placed reverse to those on the upper 

 surface, which are directed backwai'ds, while those on the under 

 surface are directed forwards. In fig. 2 (PI. X), I have given a 

 diagramatical longitudinal section of the buccal mass and the 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



odoiitophore, in order to show the direction of the teeth on the 

 radula (r). The arrow (c) in the sacoe diagram shows the direction 

 in which the radula moves wlien the animal is rasping the food. 



As regards the disappearance of the worn-out and useless teetli, 

 Semper says : " There are only two waj's possible, since the view 

 that each tooth continually grows is not to be considered at all. 

 Once we thought, as did Troschel, Claparede and others, that the 

 radula graduall}- moved forward, and that the forward teeth that 

 were worn out were thus graduall}' replaced ; or there must be a 

 periodical shedding of the radula. This latter view seems to me 

 the most natural."^ 



Above it was shown that the epithelium of the radula had no 

 connection whatever with the formation of the radula. On the 

 other hand it was observed that the radula as well as the teeth, a, 

 6, c, d, etc. (PL X, fig. 5), with the exception of the caps, grew 

 from behind, that is, from the cells of the matrix l-o (PL X, 

 fig. 5). 



From this we see that the radula grows at the posterior end of 

 the odontophore and must gradually be shoved forward, and that 

 the teeth that are used up at the mouth are gradually being replaced 

 from behind. The view of a renewal of the radula by a periodical 

 shedding, as Semper thought most probable, is consequently 

 excluded. In many sagittal sections it is easy to see the anterior 

 part of the radula breaking away at the point, a; (PL X, fig. 2). 

 At this point separate teetli and parts of the radula could be seen, 

 and they would have been cast out at the mouth. 



Trinchese^ gives in his paper on Spurilla Neapolitana a short 

 notice on the development of the radula in this species. He 

 speaks of from five to seven cells which go to form the teeth, and 

 also the cells forming the layer which I have called the epithe- 



^ "Hier siud nur zwei Fallc nioglicb, da die Annahme, dass jeder Zahn 

 fortwahren(! waclise, nicht welter zu beriicksichtigen ist. Einmal konnte 

 man nun annehmen, dass, wie es auch Tro.-cLel, Claparede u. A. thuu, 

 die Reibmembran alhnahlig vorriicke und dadurcb sowolil die vordein 

 untauglicheu Ziihue ersetzt wurden, als auch eiue Grosseuzuuahme der 

 Zahne ermogliclit sei, oder man miisste eine von Zeit zu Zeit stattfiudende 

 Hautung anuehnieu ; die letzten Annahme scheint mir die natiirlichste." 

 Zum fern. Bau d. Molhiskenzunge, p. 277. 



* Anat, e fisiol. della Spurilla Neapolitana. Estrat. d. Serie III, Tomo 

 IX, d. Mem. dell' Acad, delle Scieuze dell' Institute di Bologna, 2 Febbriao 

 1878. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



liiim of the radula. These cells do not form the basal membrane 

 direct!}'. It is formed from the many-layered epithelium of the 

 radula. It is not formed, as one would suppose, b^' a cuticular 

 secretion of the cells, but at the cost of the cells themselves. The 

 upper la3-ers of the epithelium of the radula coalesce, and thus 

 form the basal membrane. In this manner the epithelium gradu- 

 ally^ decreases in thickness as it passes forward. Trinehese saj^s, 

 regarding the formation of the radula, that : "The superior part 

 of the bod}' of each shell is divided into man}^ small rods, which 

 are very small at first and which graduall}^ lengthen as they pro- 

 ceed downwards. These small rods are the denticles. The inferior 

 part of the cell, which takes no part in the formation of the tooth, 

 forms with the similar part of the neighboring cell, the tooth-mass 

 or the true bod}'^ of the tooth. Finall}^ the boundary between the 

 different cells disappears. The nuclei of the tooth-forming cells 

 which remain under the tooth undergo division and give origin to 

 a very compact layer of nuclei, which become more and more 

 pointed as the tooth is shoved forward, are gradually formed 

 in the matrix. When the teeth are so far protruded from the 

 sheath (odontophore), the inferior part of the tooth forms, by 

 means of the la3'er of nuclei, a ver^' resisting cuticle. This cuticle 

 thickens as the tooth advances, while the nuclei or cell-layer 

 gradually' diminish in thickness." ^ 



The little rods that he speaks of are not to be fouud in Helix 

 aperta. As the form of the tongue and the radula is as different 

 in Helix, and further as the tongue-papilla, in the true sense of 



^ "La parte superiore del corpo di ogiii cellula, si divide in tauti piccoli 

 bastoncelli, i quali, molto costi in principio, si allungano man mauo nianzan- 

 dosi verso 11 nucleo 11 quail vlene spinto in basso : questi bastoncelli sono 

 i dentin!. La porzione inferlore della cellula clie non piende parti alia 

 formazione dei dentini, concorre colla porzione omologa delle cellule vicine 

 a formare il corpo del dente. In fine il limiti! delle diverse cellule scom- 

 parisce ed 11 dente e cosi formato. I nuclei delle cellule «idontogene 

 rimasti sotto il dente, si segmentano e danno origine ad uno stratodi nuclei 

 molto spesso, il quale si va assottigliando a secunda cbe ildente vicne spinto 

 in avanti dagli altri clii si tbnnans via via nella matrice. Quando i denti 

 sono per usciie dalla guaina, in comincia a formarsi sotte di ossi, per 

 r atturta dello strato nucleare, una cuticola molto resistente, la quale 11 

 fissa solidamente sul margine della rotella. Questa cuticola, a seconda che 

 11 dente si spinge in avanti, divene sempre piu spessa, mentre lo strato 

 sottostante si assottiglia e si esaurice. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



the term, is wanting in Spurilla, it is harcll}^ to be supposed that 

 the formation of the radula is exacth' the same. 



The cells of the matrix lie, in his figure (Tab. YIII, fig. 2 6), 

 behind one another, and only the most anterior one comes in 

 contact with the tooth and takes part in its formation. As is 

 easily seen, these relations are very different from the state of 

 affairs in Helix. 



Riicker,' who does not seem to have known of the paper by 

 Trinchese, calls these teeth the ontoginous teeth. He shows five 

 cells to be present, but not arranged in Helix pomatia as I have 

 found to be the case with H aperta. His cell a takes the place 

 of xny 4 ^nd J. Over his cell d is formed the future tooth. Then 

 "the i)art of tlie cell that lies on cell d, the future hook, is raised 

 from its bed, and the tooth passes through the arc of a quadrant 

 in order to assume the normal position." - 



How or by what means the tooth is raised he does not say. I 

 believe, however, that, as I have shown, the death of cell 4 (^^' 

 X, fig. .5), after the tooth is formed, is a much more plausible 

 explanation. 



If. — Observations on the Nervous System. 



The nervous s^'stem of Ancylus fluviatilis vfas ^rst described 

 bj" C. Vogt, in 1841, while that of A. lacusfris, as far as I know, 

 has never yet been especialh' described. It is, however, formed 

 on the same plan as that of the former species ; the difference in 

 the two being mere!}- one of position. Vogt described the oesoph- 

 ageal ring in the following manner : The oesophageal ring con- 

 sists of tAvo superior, two lateral, and one inferior ganglia. ^ This 

 description is not correct. The part was better described by 

 Moquiu-Tandon ^ in the year 1852. 



Moquin-Tandon ^ found that the oesophageal ring consisted of 

 seven ganglia : two superior, which he called the cerebral ganglia 



^ Ueber die Bildung der Radula bei Helix pomatia. Besond. Abdruck 

 aus d. xxii. Bericht d. Oberh. Ges. f. Natur- und Heilkunde, 1888. 



■^ Daiin " liebt sich der Zelle d aufliegende Tbeil der Zahner, der 

 zukiiilftige Haken desselben von seiner Uuterlage ab, der Zahu begiuut 

 eine vierteldielunjj, um allmiiblig aus der iibergekippten in die uonialer 

 Stellung iiberzugebeu." Ueb. d. Bildung d. Badula, etc., p. 217. 



^ "Der fccbkindring besteht aus zwei obern, zwei seitlicheu und einem 

 untern Knoteu." Bemeik. u. d. Bau d. Ancjlus, etc., p. 29. 



* Recber. auat. pbysiol. s. I'Aucyle, etc., p. 129, et seq. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



{g. cerebroides)^ and five inferior {g. sous-oesophagiens). Of these 

 latter, two lie laterally (g. superieurs), and two lie below the 

 CESophagus (g. antero-inferieurs.) The fifth is an odd one, and. is 

 placed between the lateral and the inferior ganglion of the left 

 side, and was called the supplementary ganglion {g. supplemen- 

 taire). 



The lateral ganglia are now generallj- known as the pleural or 

 visceral ganglia, and the inferior the pedal ganglia. In A. lacus- 

 tris the supplementary ganglion lies between the visceral and 

 pedal ganglion of the right side. The reason of this difference of 

 position of the supplementary ganglion is probabl}- that in A. 

 Jiuviatilis the genitals, which are in part supplied b}^ tliis gan- 

 glion, lie on the left side; while in the other form, where the 

 genitals 'are on the right side, tlie supplementary ganglion is also 

 on that side. 



Further, Moquin-Tandon ^ speaks of two small ganglia, which 

 are joined by connectives^ with the cerebral ganglia, and vrhich 

 he calls the buccal ganglia. 



According to Moquin-Tandon, then, the nervous sj-stem of 

 Ancylus consists of nine ganglia. Tliere exist, however, o;her 

 ganglia, which Moquin-Tandon did not find. Two of these lie in 

 the tissue of the left mantle of A. JiuviatiliH and in the right of 

 A. lacuatris. The other two form a pair, and lie in the cephalic 

 portion, at the base of the tentacles, near the position of the ej^es. 



First we will consider the two ganglia that are situated in the 

 substance of the mantle. They lie in the upper part of the same 

 between one of the windings of the kidney and the musculus 

 cochlearis. These two ganglia are best seen in a horizontal section. 

 The}- are very small, so that it would be hardly possible to 

 demonstrate their existence by dissection. They are connected 

 by a bundle of nerve-fibres ; besides this, there comes a bundle of 

 nerve-fibres from the bod}- to the posterior of these two ganglia. 

 Although I was unable to demonstrate the connection of this 



^ liecher. anat. physiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc., p. 129, et seq. 



- I use the expression ^'connective,^^ employed by Lacaze-Duthiers (Du 

 Systeme Nerveux d. Mollus. gastrop. pulmon. aquat. etc. Archiv. d. 

 Zoologie Exp. et Gen., Tome 1, 1872), for those bundles of nerve-fibres 

 which join ganglia of the same side, in opposition to the term " commis- 

 sure,'''' which is only employed to denote those nerve-fibres that join ganglia 

 of opposite sides. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



posterior ganglion with tlie oesophageal ring, I have no doubt of 

 the existence of sucli a connection. 



We will first consider the anterior and largest of these two 

 ganglia. From the form, position and structure I conclude that 

 this is the so-called ganglion oltactorium. The existence of this 

 ganglion was first pointed out by Lacaze-Duthiers ^ in the Pulmo- 

 nata, but he did not suspect it to be the organ of smell. He sup- 

 posed it to be the ganglion that provided for respiration, and at 

 the same time regulated the large quantity of mucus which is 

 secreted in the region of the respiratory orifice, the moment the 

 animal is irritated at this point. Spengel,- in his researches on 

 tliis organ in the Prosobranchia, believed it to be the seat of smell, 

 and gave it the name of the ganglion olfactorium. 



In Ancyhis this ganglion lies on that side of the mantle which 

 forms the external wall of the branchial chamber, and almost at 

 the highest point of the chamber, namely, where the gill and 

 mantle join. 



The ganglion consists of cells with larger nuclei whicli are so 

 large that they almost fill out the whole cell. These nuclei take 

 a dark color when stained in picro-carmine, and are filled with a 

 large number of fine granules. No nucleolus was to be seen. The 

 whole ganglion is enveloped in a fine tunica, made up of connec- 

 tive tissue, which is continuous with the tunica that covers the 

 bundle of nerve-fibres connecting the two ganglia. 



The form of this ganglion olfactorium is in general spherical. At 

 that point where it comes in contact with the internal surface of 

 the mantle we find an invagination (PI. X, fig. 6 ^'nf.), so that 

 the whole ganglion has a cup-like form. This invagination I call 

 the infundibulum, because it has the form of a funnel. The 

 walls of the infundibulum are lined with cylindrical, cilated 

 epithelium, which seems to be identical to that which covers the 

 inner surface of the mantle, save that the cells and cilia of the 

 infundibulum seem to be a little longer than those of the mantle. 



The cells stand perpendicular to the internal surface of the 

 infundibulum, and are separated from the cells of the ganglia by 

 an almost imperceptible tunica of very fine connective tissue. I 

 was unable to determine positively whether there was direct nervous 



1 Du Sj'st. New d. Moll, gast., etc. 



■'' Die Gerucbsorgane luid das Nervensystem der MoUusken. Zeitschr. 

 f. wiss. Zoologie, Bd. xxxv, 1881. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



connection between the cells of the infundibulum and the ganglion 

 cells, although one undoubted!}^ exists. 



The nerve which connects these two ganglia consists of parallel 

 fibres which are connected with the poles of the ganglion cells. It 

 takes little or no color with picro-carmine, and is quite pale when 

 compared with the surrounding tissues. 



The posterior and smaller of these two ganglia I am inclined to 

 believe is the supra-intestinal ganglion, which, according to 

 Spengel,' lies in connection with the ganglion olfactorium. It is 

 about one-lialf the size of this latter ganglion, and lies in the 

 same plane with it, so that a horizontal section through one takes 

 in the otlier. On one side it lies in contact with the anterior wall 

 of the pericardium ; on the other it touches the intenial portion of 

 the same part of the kidney which touches the internal portion of 

 the ganglion olfactorium. 



This ganglion receives a branch from the bod}-, which is the one 

 probably connecting it with the esophageal ring. It sends also a 

 branch posteriori}-. 



The form and structure of this ganglion are similar to that of 

 the ganglion olfactorium, save that there is no funnel-like invagina- 

 tion. This ganglion has all the points that characterize the supra- 

 intestinal ganglion : first, a branch which connects it with the 

 pleural or visceral ganglion ; secondly, a branch that connects it 

 with the abdominal ganglion, and thirdly, a connection with the 

 ganglion olfactorium. 



Tlie tentacular ganglia. — Besides the ganglia already described 

 as belonging to the central nervous system, together with the 

 ganglion olfactorium, there is a pair of ganglia which do not 

 belong to the central nervous system proper, and may be con- 

 sidered as belonging to the peripheral nervous sj'stem. These 

 ganglia have already been pointed out by P. B. Sarasin,^ as 

 existing in the fresh-water Pulmonata. Sarasin agrees with 

 Lacaze-Duthiers,^ that this pair of ganglia are homologous to 

 those found in the end of the tentacles of Helix. They are situ- 

 ated behind the position of the e3e, and in close contact with the 



' D. Geruchsorg. u. d. Nervensyst. d. Moll., etc. 



'^ Drei Sinnesorgaue und die Fussdriise einiger Gastripoden. Arbeit 

 aus dem Zool. Zootom. Instit. zu VViuzburg, Bd. vi, 1883. 

 * Die Syst. Nerv. d. Moll, gast., etc. 




1^83.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



epidermis. "When the eyes are retracted (for the^' can be retracted 

 in these animals) thej' lie close to this pair of ganglia. 



In A. Jluviatilis the e^es and ganglia are seen in the same trans- 

 verse sections (PI. X, fig. 8). This is not the case in A. lacustris, 

 as the ganglia lie a little posterior to the retracted eyes. Each 

 ganglion of this pair lies at the base of a tentacle, and each is ovoid 

 in shape, the longer axis being antero-posteriorly situated. They 

 are covered with a fine tunica of connective tissue. The nerve 

 that supplies them comes from the cerebral ganglia and enters this 

 ganglion on its inner surface. The nerve-cells which make up the 

 ganglia are in everj' respect similar to those already described for 

 other ganglia. 



The tissue of the ganglia is pierced by a bundle of muscular 

 fibres (PI. X, fig. 7 r?n), which comes from the buccal mass, 

 pierces each ganglion and is inserted in that part of the epidermis 

 which is covered by the ganglion. This muscle was not observed 

 by Sarasin.^ When this muscle contracts, the epidermis, together 

 with the ganglion, is drawn inward. 



The figures T and 8 (PI. X) represent two transverse sections 

 through the ganglion of the left side of A. Jluviatilis. In fig. 7 

 we see this most anterior of the two sections representing the 

 retractor muscle. Fig. 8 shows t!ie relation of the ganglion to 

 the eye. In these two sections we see that the ganglion has a 

 deep groove on its external surface, so that in fig. 7 we have a 

 figure somewhat resembling that of the ganglion olfactorium (PI. 

 X, fig. 6 Go). 



This groove, /" (PI. X, fig. 7), is caused by the contraction of 

 the retractor muscle. This groove was always present in sections. 



In the figure 7, the nerve (n) which comes from the cerebral 

 ganglion is seen entering the ganglion in question. At that point 

 where the ganglion comes in ci-ntact with the cells of the epider- 

 mis (p), the}' seem to be somewhat longer than those surrounding 

 this part. When the surface of this part is viewed from the exterior 

 a pale patch is seen, which is made up of these lengthened epi- 

 dermal cells. The external surface of these cells is covered with 

 cilia which are a trifle longer than those found on the adjoining 

 epithelium. Sarasin^ considers this pair of ganglia as a special 

 organ of sense ; lam inclined to believe that we have here an 



' Drei Sinnesorgane, etc. 

 ^ Ueber drei Sinnesorgane, etc. 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



organ similar to the side line, or side organ, that has been found 

 in the annelides by Eisig^ and Mej-er.- The ganglion olfaetorium 

 may be one of a pair which would represent another segment, the 

 mate of which has been lost by the disturbance of the bilateral 

 S3-mmetry. This so-culled ganglion olfactovium is paired in the 

 1-owest Gastropoda, as Patella, Haliods, etc., when the bilateral sym- 

 metr}^ is not as disturbed as in the higher forms of Gastropoda. 



The organ of touch. — Moqu n-Tandon makes the following 

 observation : ^'■Ancylus does not possess an especial organ of touch. 

 The foot, which is large, flexible and capable of being exactl}^ 

 applied to solid bodies, and embraces them in part, it is true, 

 receives and transmits tr.;ct le ini[)ressions, but the animal rarely 

 uses it for this purpose. 



" Blaiiiville has proved that the tentacles of the Gastropoda 

 never seive as organs of touch, in spite of their sensibilit}' ; he 

 has mei'ely confirmed tlie opinion of man^- earlier naturalists. 



" This is not the case with the anterior part of the head, with 

 whicli the mollnsk at times touches different bodies with the 

 appearance of smelling them. I have seen two individuals, which 

 were about to copulate, which had the air of feeling and caressing 

 themselves with the mouth. ^ " 



Mocjuin-Tandon was wrong when he said that no especial organ 

 of touch was present in Ancylus, for I have found one without 

 any difflculty. It is probable that Moquin-Tandon was unable to 

 find it, as he did not make any sections of the animal. As would be 

 supposed from the citation, the organ lies in the anterior part of 



1 Die Seitenorgare und becberformige Organe der Capitellideu. Mit- 

 theil. a. d. Zool. Stat, zu Xcapel, Bd. i, 1879. 



- Zur Anatomie und Histologie vou Polyopthalmvs pictus. Clap., Arcbiv 

 f. Microscop. Aiiat., Bd. xxi, 1882. 



* "L'Ancyle ne possede pas d'organe special pour le toucher active, Son 

 pied, qui est large, souple et susceptible de s'appliques exactement contre 

 les corps solids, meme de les embrasser en partie pent, il est vrai, recevoir 

 et transmettre de impressions tractiles mais I'animal I'emploie rarement a 

 ret usage. 



" Blainville a prouve que les tentacles desgastrop des ne servaient jamais 

 a I'exploration du tact, malgre leur sensibilite ; il u'a fait que confirraer 

 1 opinion de plusieurs anciens naturalistes. 11 n'est pas de meme du 

 cbaperou et du mouHe, avec lesquel le Mollusque toucbe quelquefois les 

 divers corps et semble les flaiver j'ai ou doux individus dispose a 

 s'accoupler, qui avaient I'air de se palper et de se rarres.ser avec la boucbe." 

 - Reclier. anat. pbysiol. s. I'Aucyle, etc , p. 181. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



the uppei" lip, exactly in that part which, according to Moquin- 

 Tandon, was used for feeling. 



The position and presence of this organ can best be demon- 

 strated in longitudinal sections of A. lacustris (PI. X, fig. 9), as 

 in this species it is better developed than in A. Jiuviatilis. 



This organ is made up of a certain number of specialized 

 epithelial cells, which are connected with the cerebral ganglion by 

 fine nerves ; there are two organs which make a pair, and form a 

 patch on each side of the median line of the upper lip, and each 

 is connected with the cerebral ganglion of its own side. 



The cells which make up this oi'gan differ principally from the 

 surrounding epidei-mal cells in their great size (PI. X, fig. 9 h-c). 

 These specialized cells are not all of the same size, those in the 

 centre of the patch being the longer ; and as we approach the 

 periphery, they grow smaller and smaller, until they pass imper- 

 ceptibly into the surrounding epidermis. This can be seen in the 

 drawing (PI. X, fig. 9), which represents a longitudinal section 

 through the upper lip of A. lacustris. 



The external or free surface of these cells is covered with long 

 cilia, which thus differ from the cilia of the surrounding epithe- 

 lium. The nuclei of these cylindrical cells differ from those 

 found in the neighboring epithelium in form as well as in size. 

 When the object is colored in picro-carmine, the nuclei take a deep 

 color, and stand out sharply from the rest of the cell. Although 

 these nuclei are somewhat different among themselves, they are. in 

 general, fusiform. In this respect they differ from the regular, 

 oval-shaped nuclei of the epidermis. Some of these nuclei appear 

 bent, while others are straight. In fig. 9 (PL X) we see that 

 some of the nuclei are pointed onlj' at one end, and others at the 

 other, while only one is pointed at both. In reality, all the nuclei 

 are pointed at both ends, and the reason that they are not so in 

 the drawing is that the nuclei have been cut in two, the knile not 

 happening to pass from one point to the other, but to have taken 

 an oblique course. In consequence of this, some represent the 

 one halt, and others the other half, of the nucleus. The bending of 

 the nuclei is due, I believe, to action of the re-agents used in 

 preparing the specimen. 



The substance of the nuclei is granular, as the other epidermal 

 nuclei, and I could not find the existence of a nucleolus. 



The nerve'endings, which enter the cells of this organ, are the 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



terminal branches of that nerve which arises in the cerebral 

 ganglia, and are distributed to this region of the head. They 

 enter, as near as I could determine, the posterior end of the cell, 

 and become joined to the posterior end of the nucleus. The 

 opposite point of the nucleus approaches the free surface of the 

 cell, and probably is connected in some way with the cilia (PI. X, 

 fig. 9 a). In this figure, the muscular and connective-tissue fibres 

 are intentional 1}'^ omitted, as it would be difficult to distinguish 

 the nerve-fibres, were they drawn in. 



The other organs of special sense in Ancylus are so little difl'erent 

 from those in other Pulraonata, that I do not consider it necessary 

 to give a description of them here. 



III. — The Anatomy of the Excretory Organ. 



As yet, no one has completely described the excretory organ of 

 Ancylus. This organ has only been known in part, and described 

 under various names. C. Yogt,' in the year 1841, spoke of an 

 organ imbedded in the mantle which he called tho " sulphur-yellow 

 body " (Schwefelgelber Korper), and supposed that the so-called 

 reticulated portion was the lung. 



Moquin-Tandon also considered this organ an organ of respira- 

 tion, and said : " The breathing organ of Ancylus is neither a tube 

 nor an external gill, it is an internal pouch. I am convinced of 

 this, after numerous dissections. This pouch is small, oblong, 

 straight and situated in the left side of the mollnsk, toward the 

 border of the mantle, and in advance of the rectum. "^ 



Blainville^ is of the same opinion, and considers that the orifice 

 of this respiratory organ is closed b\' an opercular appendage 

 (appendice operculaire). This appendage is what 1 have shown 

 to be the gill. 



Moquin-Tandon adds that the orifice is very small. He further 

 speaks of a gland that surrounds the heart, concerning which 

 he sa^'S : " The pericardial gland surrounds the heart and the 

 breathing organ, as is the case with most Gastropoda; it occupies 



' Bemerk. ii. d. Bau d. Ancylus, etc., p. 28. 



^ V organe respiratoire de V Ancyle n'est, ni un tube tracheiform, ni una 

 brancliie exteme ; c'esL ui-c pocbe interieure ; je m'eu suis assure, apres 

 de nonibreuses dissections, cette poche est petit, oblongue, etroit, et situee 

 a la partie gauche du Mollusque vers le bord du manteau, eu avant du 

 rectum. Recher. anat. pbysiol. s. I'Ancyle, etc , p. 123. * 



^ Manuel de malacologie et de conch ylogie. Paris, 1825, p. 504. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23'7 



the left and posterior part of the pulmobranchial pouch, and 

 extends transversely and expands behind the auricle and the 

 ventricle. Its color is j-ellowish, and opens without doubt at the 

 side of the respiratory orifice."^ He says further on : " The peri- 

 cardial gland produces a very large amount of mucus, I have 

 never found calcareous granules in it ; these I have only found in 

 the thick part of the mantle, principally near the margin ; they 

 were very large, a little irregular and transparent."^ Although I 

 have diligentl}^ searched for the reticulated part described by C. 

 Yogt, I have been unable to find it. It appears to me that he 

 had reference to what I have called the sacular part of the kidney, 

 later to be considered, which lies close to the pericardium, the 

 walls of which have not a reticulated appearance, but are thrown 

 into longitudinal folds. C. Yogt regarded this part of the organ 

 as the lung, while Moquin-Tandon, on the other hand, called it the 

 pericardial gland. 



When the animal is laid upon its back, and the mantle and foot 

 separated, an S-shaped 3-ellow bodj- is seen through the thin walls 

 of the mantle. 



In A. Jiur.ialilis this organ lies in the left, and in A. lacustris 

 in the right lobe of the mantle ; this is the organ of excretion, or 

 the kidne3\ Were this organ to be dissected out and measured, 

 it would be found to be about twice the length of the animal to 

 which it belonged ; thus in an animal measuring 7*4 mm., the 

 kidney was found to measure 14'4 mm. 



In fig. 10 (PL X) I have endeavored to give a diagramatical 

 drawing of the course of the kidney. To the largest part I have 

 given the name of the sacular portion ; it lies in contact with the 



^ L' orifice respiratoire est tres petit et perce dans un epaississement de la 

 peu, un peu plus pale que la reste du tissue * * *. La glande pericar- 

 diale est accolee conime dans la plupart des Gastropodes, au cceur et a 

 I'organe de la respiration ; elle cccupe les parties glauches et posterieures 

 de la poclie pulmobranche, et s'elend trausversalement, ea se renflent, 

 derriere roreillette et le veutricle. Sa coleur est jaunatre, s'ouvre sans 

 doute, a cote de I'orifice respiratoire. Recber. anat. pLysiol. s. I'Ancyle, 

 etc., p. 128. 



^ La glande pericardiale produit une assez grande quantite de mucus. 

 Je n'y ai jamais trouve de grains calcaires. J'en at observe seulment 

 dans I'epaisseur du manleau particulierment vero sa marge ; ils etaient 

 assez gros, un peu irreguliers et transparent s. Recber. anat. pbysiol. s. 

 I'Ancyle, etc., p. 128. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



posterior wall of the pericardium. The folds that I have referred 

 to above are not represented here, as they do not affect the general 

 form of the organ. At the point h' the sacular portion passes into 

 the tubular portion. Os represents the opening of the organ 

 into the branchial chamber. The arrow is given to show the 

 position of the animal as regards the kidney, the arrow pointing 

 toward the head. The kidney is drawn as if the observer were 

 viewing it through the external wall of the branchial chamber. 

 The little canal {t) which is seen in the anterior part of sacular 

 portion is the communication between the kidney and the peri- 

 cardium. The diagram (PI. X, fig. 10 a) is drawn from a complete 

 series of transverse sections, by first drawing each section and 

 then projecting it by measurement to surveyor's paper. 



The organ may be divided into two parts, which are in form 

 entirely different from one another. The first part — that is, that 

 part which lies next to the pericardium — I call the pericardial or 

 sacular portion (PI. X, fig. 10 a) ; it is the largest and most active 

 portion of the kidnej'; it is flattened from the side, so that the 

 greatest diameter is perpendicular to the animal. The walls, as 

 above stated, are thrown into longitudinal folds, which are much 

 deeper at the pericardial end than at the end where this part joins 

 the others ; at this point, in fact, it ma}- be said not to exist, as 

 they graduallv grow fainter until they disappear altogether. The 

 anterior end of this portion is very broad, and covers nearly the 

 whole posterior wall of the pericardium. This part, which runs 

 obliquely backwards and downwards, has an oval foim on trans- 

 verse section which gradually becomes more circular as the folds 

 disappear and we approach the tubular portion. The length of 

 this first portion, in an average sized animal, is about 2-8 mm. ;^ 

 the greatest diameter, I'O mm. ; and breadth, 0*3 mm. 



In the posterior wall of the pericardium is seen a small funnel- 

 shaped opening (PI. X, fig. 3 inf)^ which is lined with long cilia; 

 this opening leads into a fine tube ; this tube lies in contact with 

 the internal wall of the sacular portion of the kidney for a short 

 distance, and then opens into it. Here we have, without doubt, 

 a direct communication between the pericardium and the kidney. 



This small tube may be divided into two parts, histologically 

 different from one another, and the point where this division takes 



1 All measurements are taken from an animal of average size, which 

 measured 7*4 mm. in length. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



place is wliere the rectum, which is on its v^iiy perpendicularly- 

 through this part of the animal to the gill, comes in contact with 

 the tube. The anterior part of this canal I call the praerectal, 

 and the posterior portion the postrectal. 



This little canal has nearly the same calibre throughout ; the walls 

 of the prterectal part are composed of cylindrical epithelial cells, 

 which lie on a fine tunica propria, and on the free ends of which 

 are found cilia. The cilia are longest at the pericardial opening 

 of this tube. The lumen of the postrectal part is nearly the same 

 as that of the pmerectal part ; the walls of the former, however, 

 are somewhat thicker. 



The internal surface of the excretory organ is also ciliated, and 

 consists of a layer of cylinder epithelium. In the walls are 

 found those concretions so characteristic of the gastropod kid- 

 ne}'. These concretions are not found in the walls all over the 

 kidney, but seem confined to a certain part. It is my opinion 

 that the concretions are identical to those small granulations 

 referred to b^' Moquin-Tandon (see p. 237) in the mucus of this 

 region. 



The sacular portion of the kidney does not pass graduall}^ into 

 the tubular portion, but at a sharp angle, as is seen in the diagram 

 (PL X, fig. 10), where a little blind sac is formed (PI. X, fig. 

 10 z). The diameter of this part of the sacular portion is 

 0-2 mm. 



The second part of the kidney, or the tubular portion, is 

 much longer than the pericardial or sacular portion, but has a 

 much smaller diameter than the latter, and is convoluted. At 

 the beginning it runs parallel with the inferior border of the 

 mantle, and bending at r (PI. X, fig. 10) it returns on its course; 

 at c' (fig. 10), it makes another bend and passes for a short distance 

 forward again ; then forming a slight curve it passes to its most 

 inferior position, and then running parallel with the lower border 

 of the mantle it opens at os, at a position about opposite the pos- 

 terior part of the gill. In the diagram (fig. 10) I have represented 

 the convolutions as if they were all in one plane; this is, however, 

 not the ease, as in a horizontal section we often see two convo- 

 lutions, 



In A. lacustris the kidney has essentially the same form, lying 

 in the right mantle, save that the folds of the sacular portion are 

 not so marked. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



As to the disposition of the concretion, I can say that they are 

 found in the postrectal and sacular portions, thickly embedded in 

 the walls ; the tubular portion, which may be looked upon as 

 the duct to the glandular or sacular portion, also has them in the 

 first part of its course, as far as o (PI. X, fig. 10) ; they then become 

 scattered and rarer until we get to c, Avhen they have entirely 

 disappeared. The whole interior portion of the organ is ciliated. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE X. 



Fig. 1. Tratsveise section, about the middle of A. fluviatilis ; s, shell ; 

 in, mantle ; mc, musculus cocblearis ; F, foot ; qm, transverse 

 mivsciilar fibres ; L, liver ; mg, stomach ; E, albvirainous gland ; 

 D, intestinal canal ; K, gill ; exo, excretory organ or kidney. 



Fig. 2. Diagram of buccal mass and odontopbore ; m, moutb ; b, cui-ved 

 arrow showing direction the food takes to (oe) oesophagus ; a, 

 anterior wall ; c, arrow showing direction of movement of 

 radula when licking (for x, see text) ; Od, odontopbore ; r, 

 radula. 



Fig. 3. Part of horizontal section of A. fluviatilis ; Inf, infuudibulum ; / 

 and ct, tube connecting kidney ^a) to pericardium ( Pj ; Ht, 

 heart ; bs, blood-space ; m, mantle ; B, rectum ; mc, musculus 

 cocblearis ; alb, albuminous gland ; Go. parts of genital 

 oigans. 



Fig. 4 a. Horizontal section of odontopbore of A. fluviatilis. 



Fig. 4 b. Transverse section of same. 



Fig. 5. Posterior part of a longitudinal section of odontopbore of Helix 

 aperta. 

 For explanation of the letters of the last three figures, see text. 

 All the figures, with the exception of fig. 3 and fig. 10 have been 

 drawn by means of a camera lucida 



Fig. G. Transverse section of the ganglion olfactorium (Go) ; Inf, infuu- 

 dibulum ; m, mantle ; d, kidney ; Brc, branchial chamber. 



Fig. 7 and 8. Two transverse sections of the tentacular ganglion of left 

 side of A, fluviatilis ; ?i, nerve ; e, epidermis ; g, ganglion ; p, 

 enlarged epidermal cells ; /, groove ; c, cutis ; rm, retractor 

 muscle ; au, eye. 



Fig. 9. Longitudinal section of upper lip of A. laeustris. For a, see 

 text. 



Fig. 10. Diagram of kidney of A. fluviatilis. For letters, see text. 




1888.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



The following, received through the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, was also ordered to be printed : — 



NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF CHESTER VALLEY AND VICINITY. 

 BY THEO. D. RAND. 



In a recent reply to criticisms by Dr. Frazer of statements in 

 regard to the serpentine ou' crops, etc., described in Vol. C fi of 

 the Second Geol. Survey of Penns3'lvania, I stated that I would 

 exhibit before the Academy specimens from the outcrops in 

 question. Dr. Frazer stated (Am. Nat., Sept., 1883, p. 525) : "At 

 the same time it must not be forgotten that what one observer 

 would regard as evidence of a serpentine outcrop, another would 

 not. * * * It would seem to be only thus that such wide 

 divergencies as are here noted are explicable." 



I have here specimens from the serpentine outcrops which I 

 had stated were overlooked in C 6, and specimens from two out- 

 crops represented in C 6 to be serpentine, which I questioned. I 

 think they speak for themselves, but if any member has any doubt 

 or question, I trust the matter may be so discussed as to elicit 

 the truth. 



I desire also to call attention to certain statements in the survey 

 of Chester Co., C 4, recently published, statements with which 

 my observations do not agree. 



1. The non-existence of Potsdam sandstone, or a sandstone ver^' 

 closely resembling Potsdam, south of Chester Valle}'. 



C 4 says, pp. 34, 124 : " The quartzite failed altogether on the 

 southern side of the valley.'' " No Potsdam sandstone has been 

 detected anywhere along the southern edge of the limestone 

 area." 



I have here specimens from Samuel Tyson's, on north flank of 

 South Valle}^ Hill, near King of Prussia station, Chester Valley, 

 and from three localities in Cream Valley (between the South 

 Valle}" Hill and the Radnor syenitic gneiss range), one, on the 

 Brooks form, about 100 j-ards west of the line dividing Delaware 

 county from Montgomery and 300 yards northeast of the south- 

 west corner of Upper Merion township ; another, one-half mile 

 west of this, near and south of the limestone on Stacker's place, 

 and the third the Pennsylvania Railroad cut northwest of Wayne 

 station, just north of the trap, in which cut Dr. Frazer, p. 283, 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



speaks of finding sandy gneiss^ with a hard serpentine-like mineral. 

 I have also the eurite of Barren Hill for comparison. 



It will be seen that the correspondence is exact — the micaceous 

 partings, the rhomboidal cleavage, the minute tourmalines — all 

 agree, 



I have also a specimen of the trap of the Conshohocken dyke 

 which crosses this cut about 100 feet southeast of the eurite. I 

 could find no serpentine-like rock there, nor any other hard rock ; 

 the rocks are much decomposed, but the gneiss of Rogers' altered 

 primal is there unmistakabl}'. 



2. I have also specimens (loose in the soil) from immediately 

 south of the eastern end of the serpentine, stated, on p. 87, to be 

 bounded both south and north b}' talcose slate. The rock is 

 Rogers' altered primal. 



3. On page 87 it is stated : " It is evident that even a s^-nclinal 

 belt of serpentine 2000 feet wide, or even 400 feet wide, can mean 

 nothing else than a great thickness of the talc mica schist forma- 

 tion, metamorphosed more or less completely into serpentine, and 

 a good cause for such alteration is present in an extensive out- 

 burst of trap close beyond." 



"EverN'body familiar with the surface of Delaware and Chester 

 counties knows how almost invariably its trap and serpentine 

 appear together." 



If this is true, how can it be explained that a few miles further 

 east, what seems to be admitted (p. 282 1 to be the same serpentine 

 belt is wholly within the gneisses of C 6 (Rogers' altered primal), 

 over 1000 feet south of the trap, with gneiss, hornblende schist, 

 steatite and limestone intervening, and that the trap passes east- 

 ward for some five or six miles, at least, from Wayne station, 

 P. R. R., to a point far east of Conshohocken, through the hydro- 

 mica schists of the South Valley Hill to Bethel Hill without a 

 trace of serpentine. 



At what locality in Delaware coantj', among its numerous ser- 

 pentine outcrops, does trap, properh' so-called, occur? 



It does not appear at Lenni, Media, Blue Hill, Marple, Xew- 

 town, nor at any of the numerous outcrops of the Lafayette belt, 

 nor of that of the steatite belt on the south, nor of the Radnor 

 belt in Radnor. In Easttown they do appear together, but can 



' This quotation is erroneous ; in place of "sandy gneiss" it should be 

 " a decomposed friable white gneissoid rock," 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



this possibly be construed to be more than that converging lines 

 must meet ? 



4. P. 84 : " The southern edge of the South Valley Hill belt of talc 

 mica slates is defined upon the map by a chain of dots and stripes 

 of two colors, representing outcrops of serpentine, and outcrops 

 of cr3Stalline limestone. Were these outcrops ranged in more 

 than one line, the task of explaining their appearance would be 

 far easier. * * * It looks as if the serpentine might be a 

 subsequent modification of the limestone. No case is recorded 

 of the serpentine and crystalline limestone of our line being seen 

 in contact." I do not dispute the last sentence, but the speci- 

 mens show a variety of rocks in Radnor between the serpentine 

 and limestone, which there occup3%as shown on im' map, approxi- 

 matively parallel positions a thousand feet and more apart — con- 

 clusive evidence that in that part of the line at least they have no 

 possible connection. 



The map in C 4 shows, as clearly as possible on so small a scale, 

 that the line of limestone outcrops is north of the line of serpen- 

 tine outcrops ; all the limestone outcrops sliown are west of the 

 west end of the serpentine outcrop>. 



There is some evidence that this serpentine belt is an altered 

 enstatite. 



T show a specimen from near Devon Inn, Easttown township, 

 which seems almoSo certainl}' altered enstatite; and specimens of 

 undoubted enstatite from the Lafayette belt, the serpentine of 

 which so strongly resembles that of the Radnor belt, both in 

 structure and accompanying minerals. 



5. The statement, p. 282 : " The east end of this (the Easttown 

 and Williamstown serpentine belt) continues much further into 

 Montgomery county," 



This is certainly an error, caused, perhaps, b}- confusing this 

 belt with that north of it, as was done in C 6. This belt ceases 

 abruptly on the land of Hon. D. J. Morell, in Radnor township, 

 Delaware county, where the contour suggests the possibility of a 

 fault. The lithological ditierence of the belts may be seen by the 

 specimens produced. The northerly belt begins on the land of 

 Brooke, about one-fourth mile northwest of the easterly end of the 

 Radnor outcrop, east of Radnor station. 



5. On p. 138, a Mr. Morely is quoted, without comment, as 

 stating that the Conshohocken trap follows the summit of Bethel 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Hill into Delaware count}^, terminating near the road leading 

 from the Lancaster turnpike to the King of Prussia. 



In fact, it is nowhere near the summit, but on the south flank, 

 or at the foot, and so far from ending at the road mentioned, it 

 extends several miles to the westward, its outcrops almost con- 

 tinuous. 



T. P. 140: "Js^ear Mr. Hitner's house. Marble Hall, there 

 occurs a thin bed of very ponderous rock, resembling closely a 

 white cr3-stalline limestone. It contains, however, but a moderate 

 proportion of carbonate of lime, and consists chiefly of the car- 

 bonate of strontia." Whence there is deduced a bond of connec- 

 tion between the vallej' limestone and the No. 11 limestone of the 

 valleys of middle Pennsjdvania. 



Was carbonate of strontia ever found there? Is it not the 

 well-known sulphate of baryta from that locality mistaken for 

 carbonate of strontia ? 



8. P. 282 : "An old quarry close by the Spread Eagle hotel, 

 which is now filled with fragments of trap and rubbish, shows 

 serpentine along with the schistose matter, with a dip about 

 S. 35 E., and seemingly about 35°, etc." 



" This quarr3' is over the line, in Delaware county." 

 This is an interesting contact. I regret that I have been unable 

 to find it ; the only quarr}' in that vicinity that I can find is about 

 200 feet west of the Spread Eagle, on the north side of the Lan- 

 caster turnpike, nearly opposite Pugh's store; but it contains no 

 serpentine, and is in Rogers' altered primal quarried thence for 

 the turnpike. It was much filled up with trap and rubbish, but 

 has been recentlj' opened again. Old residents assure me that it 

 is the only quarrj'^ in Delaware county in that vicinity. 



9. P. 282: "As soon as one passes the creek north of Radnor 

 station * * * t,]ig measures assume an unctuous, schistose, 

 partly chloritic character." 



P. 284 : " Fragments of chloritic mica schist." 



P. 287 : " Willistown, broad conchoidal mica schist, containing 

 much chlorite and milk quartz." 



Yet Prof. Frazer contends rightly {Am. Nat., October, 1883, 

 p. 1021) that this region contains hydro-mica schists only; that 

 the expression " talc mica " is erroneous, as the rocks contain no 

 talc ; do they contain chlorite ? 



Dr. Frazer sa^^s (Am. Nat., May, 1883, p. 524) : " The observa- 

 tion of the intersection of the serpentine belt by the trajD, which 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



has a more nortlierly trend in Easttown, is interesting^ but not new.'''' 

 M}- words were : " A mile sontlieast of Berwyn, the latter can 

 bo seen almost, if not quite, in contact with the serpentine, the 

 trap, however, being on the south of the serpentine. The same 

 is true south of Paoli, except tliat the trap appears to be on the 

 north side." Prof. Rogers (p. 168) speaks of this trap as 

 •'occurring along and outside the northern edge of the serpentine, 

 in a succession of narrow, elongated dykes, ranging more north- 

 east and southwest than the serpentine. These I have not 

 examined, but such structuie agrees precisely with what I have 

 observed of the serpentine further east." 



This interesting ofcurience is not upon the map in C 4 ; no 

 trap whatever is shown north of the large serpentine outcrop 

 south of Paoli.' 



Dr. Frazer {J. Frank. Inst., October 1883) kindly compares ray 

 criticism with those of the good old gentlemen who, during the 

 war, criticized the army officers, from a safe distance at their 

 comfortable breakfast tables. This is not fair ; everj^ observation 

 I have made has been made on the spot and on foot, and in proof 

 of this Dr. Frazer lias not pointed out a single error of fact. Had 

 all the observations in C 6 and C 4 been similarly made, many 

 blunders like those of serpentine in tlie Bryn Mawr cut, in the 

 cut northwest of Wayne, and on the Gulf road north of Matsons' 

 Ford road, would not have appeared. 



" But it is not a fact that Rogers' altered primal is a well- 

 defined rock; on the contrary, a more heterogeneous collection of 

 gneiss, mica schists, hydro-mica schists, chlorites, feldspar por- 

 phyries, clays r.nd quartz slates than are found in the regions 

 which he colored as altered primal it would be difficult to collect 

 from the two hemispheres." — Dr. Frazer, J. F. I., October, 1883. 



I referred to the rock described by Rogers. Is it not possible 

 that Dr. Frazer has included, in the above, adjacent rocks which 

 Rogers had no intention of including, as the scale of the map 

 precludes the possibility of accurate mapping; and the rocks men- 

 tioned b\' Dr. Frazer do lie adjacent; but the peculiar rock here 

 shown and so well described by Rogers, is. at least through Lower 

 Merion, Radnor and Easttown, ver}- well defined indeed. Its 

 breadth nowhere exceeds 800 feet, I think, and this on Rogers' 



I In my jeview, J. F. I., September, 1883, I inadvertently located this in 

 Easttown. It is really in Willistown. 




246 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



map would be ^\ of an inch ; its outcrops are almost continuous, 

 and between, its existence in the fields is constant. 



Dr. Fiazer attempts a joke founded upon his impression of the 

 absence of an allusion to the serpentine in Radnor and p]astto\vn, 

 in ni}' criticism of C 4. It would have been well for him to have 

 read the paper again. He will find on page 33 an " allusion " to 

 the serpentine in Radnor; on page 34 a map of the outc-rops in 

 Radnor and some of those in Easttown. 



I did not describe the echelon structure of the serpentine out- 

 crops as a theor}', as Dr. Frazer says, but, as a fact, the under- 

 ground structure I do not attempt to demonstrate, Tliat our 

 observations agree within limits that do not affect the ()uestion, is 

 shown in the table given below. 



The lines of strike are in part deduced from the dips given by 

 Dr. Fiazer, but it may be well to quote from C 4, p. 218 : "' The 

 serpentine * * * whei-e exposed, it is so fractured and broken 

 as to make the determination of its dip very difficult or altogether 

 impossible. But its strike cannot unfrequently be pursued in 

 almost straight lines for miles." 



For this reason, in recording my observatibns, I preferred to 

 give the dip and strike separately — for the dip varies greatly, the 

 strike does not. 



Outcrops. 



Strike | Strike. 



on map, Frazer, J. F.I, 



C i. Oct., '83. 



1. K mileE. 

 of Radnor 

 station. 



3. J^raileN. 

 W. of 

 Radnor 

 station. 



S. W. of N. 

 Old Eagle 

 station. 



7. N. W. of 

 and near 

 Devon 

 Inn. 



70 E, 



9. Ivister, S. N. 76 E. 

 of Berwyn. 



Nearly 

 E. and VV. 



N. 30 E. 



N. 40 E. 



90° from Dip. 

 Frazer. 



Strike, Rand. I Difference. 



N. 70 to 85 E. 



N. 70 E. I 

 N. 60 W. , 



(?N. 60 E.?) 



Nearly 

 E. and \V. 



N. 60 E. 



to 20° 



lOO 

 120^ or OO 



N. 49 E. 



A line joining the outcrops 6 and 9 on map C 4 is N. 83 E. 

 One joining the Radnor outcrops on map by Hopkins, N. 80 E. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Outcrop 3 runs for nearly 1500 feet parallel, or nearly so. to a 

 lane. The bearinj;; of this lane, by surve^^s recited in the deeds, 

 is N. 62° 40' E. 



Now if the lines of strike given by Dr. Frazer be plotted on the 

 map, it will readily be seen that wliile a line about N. 83 E. will cross 

 all of them, the strike of all will cross this line at angles from 23° 

 to 43°, except the first. The strike of the outcrops, as given on 

 the map, is wrong, as shown by Dr. Frazer's own figures; but in 

 spite of this the echelon structure is delineated in the two out- 

 croi^s south and southwest of Old Eagle station, the error — making 

 them two parallel outcrops — being due to the fact that the westerly 

 one is not over 400 feet long, the easterly not over 200, while on 

 the map each is made over 1000 feet long. 



Mr. Hall remarks (Am. Nat., June, 1883, p. 647) that I do not 

 account for the absence of slates on the north side of the valley. 

 From the specimens exhibited it will be seen that there are in the 

 North Valle3' Hill slaty rocks with segregated quarlz closely 

 resembling those of the South Valley Hill, though it is true that 

 as a whole the hills are not alike. 



I have here specimens to illustrate the succession of rocks north 

 and south of the Radnor gneiss belt. 



I would particular!}^ call attention to the rocks immediately 

 south of the Radnor gneiss belt. Their resemblance to those on 

 the north is striking, and it seems worthy of further iuA-estigation 

 whether the belt of fine grained gneiss breaking into rhomboidal 

 fragments and connected with a white feldspathic rock, maj- not 

 be identical with the eurite and adjacent rocks on the north. 



I have also two more specimens of the quartzite with supposed 

 fucoidal markings, one of which, from the Old Gulf road east of 

 Bryn Mawr, contains them unusually well defined. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



November 6. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Forty-four persons present. 



A paper, entitled " On the Value of the ' Nearctic ' as one of the 

 Primary Zoological Regions. Replies to Criticisms by Mr. Alfred 

 Russel "Wallace and Prof Theodore Gill," by Professor Angelo 

 Heilprin, was presented for publication. 



On Visual Organs in Solen. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp called 

 attention to a remarkably primitive form of visual organ that he 

 had discovered in the siphon of Solen ensis and' S. vagina (the 

 common '' razor-shell "). 



His attention was directed to the probable possession of visual 

 organs by observing a number of these animals which were 

 exposed in large basins for sale at Naples. A shadow cast by 

 his hand caused the extended siphons of the specimens on which 

 the shadow fell, instantly to retract, while those not in the shadow 

 remained extended. Repeating tliis ex| erin.ent at the Zoological 

 Station at Naples, and being fully convinced that the retraction 

 was due to the shadow and not to a slight jar which yi.ight have 

 been the cause; he was led to examine the siphon more closelj^, 

 and he also made a series of vertical sections for the purpose 

 of very minute stud}'. 



When the siphon of a large Solen is cut open and examined, a 

 number of fine blackish brown lines or fine grooves are seen. 

 These are situated l»etween and at the base of the short tentacular 

 processes of the external edge of the siphon. As many as fifty 

 of these little gnjoves were found to be present in some speci- 

 mens, and some of them were from 1 to Vo mm. in length. 



When a vertical section is examined these pigmented grooves 

 are distinctly seen, and the cells of which they are composed are 

 very different from the ordinary epithelial cells which cover the 

 more pigmented parts. These latter cells are ordinary columnar 

 epithelial cells with a large nucleus which is situated near the 

 tunica on which it rests. The pigmented cells are from one-third 

 to one-half longer than those just described, and consist of three 

 distinct parts. The upper part, or that part farthest from the 

 tunica, appears perfectly transparent and takes up about one-ninth 

 or one-tenth of the total length of the cell ; this part is not at all 

 affected with the coloring matter which was used in coloring the 

 whole. The second part of the cell is deepl}-^ pigmented and con- 

 sequently opaque ; it is filled with a dark brown or almost black 

 granulated pigment; this takes up about one-half of the length of 

 the cell. Below this is the third part cf this cell, consisting of 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 249 



a clear mass, which takes a slight tinge when colored; this is prob- 

 ably the most active part of the cell ; in this is imbedded the large 

 oval nucleus. This nucleus is sharply demarcated and is filled 

 with a granulated matter which takes a dark coIm- in borax car- 

 mine, as do, indeed, the nuclei of all the epidermal cells. 



These retinal cells, if they may be so called, are similar to 

 those described by P. Fraisse in 1881 (Zeit=chr. f. wiss. ZooL, 

 Bd. xxv), in the very primitive eye of Patella coerulea, the 

 principal difference being that in Patella the transparent part at 

 the top of the cell seems to be a little more extensive. This eye 

 of Patella is open, being merely an invaginated part of the epider- 

 mis, and has no lense. In Haliotis tuberculata we find an open 

 eye also, but with the addition of a very primitive lense. The 

 next higher grade of eye seems to be that of Fissiwella rosea^ in 

 which the eye is closed and possesses also a lense ; now in these 

 two lat'er forms, where we find a lense present, the retinal cells do 

 not possess the transpai-ent ends as we find in Patella and Solen, 

 but the pigment fills the upper part of the cell quite to the top. 

 This would indicate, he thinks, that the transparent part took the 

 place of a lense. 



No special nerve-fibres could be detected passing to these pig- 

 mented grooves. Nerves passing to the eye of Patella were also 

 wanting, while, on the other hand, distinct veins were found 

 passing to the eye of Haliotia and Fissurella. 



He further stated that this power of distinguishing a shadow 

 would be of great use to the animal in the struggle for existence. 

 The Solen lies buried perpendicularly in the sand and allows the 

 siphon to project a little above the surface. This projecting part 

 would, probably, frequently be bitten off by fishes, were it not for 

 the fact that the shadow of the enemy would give warning, so 

 that the siphon could be withdrawn in time to save it from 

 destruction. 



Notes on Glaciers in Alaska. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked 

 that on his recent visit to Alaska he noted that the numerous 

 icebergs coursing down Glacier Bay, always pursued their swift 

 downward course towards the Pacific Ocean quite independently 

 of the rising or falling of the tide. On reflection it was evident 

 that this might be due to the greater density of the cold glacier 

 water pressing on towards the lighter water in the Japan Sea, 

 which set its force against the Alaskan shores. It was, indeed, 

 incorrect to speak of a warm current flowing north wai'ds in any 

 active sense. Warm water never flowed or circulated because it 

 was warm, but it flowed under the simple laws of gravitation — 

 the heavier body pushing the lighter out of its place, and the 

 lighter then being drawn backwards to the vacuum caused by the 

 movement of the weightier volume. The flow of a warm current 

 in the atmosphere or in the water must, therefore, be taken in a 

 passive and not in an active sense; and it was, therefore, to the 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY- OF [1883. 



immense ice-fields of Alaska themselves that we have to look for 

 the singularly moderatfe climate of southeastern Alaska, rather 

 than to the mere action of heated water alone. They furnish the 

 heavy power \fhich draws tlie warm current to its shores. With 

 the disappearance of these huge glaciers, or the diversion of the 

 immense volume of cold water to another channel, the cold of this 

 portion of Alaska would probably be as intense as that experienced 

 along its northern coast. The distinction was one of vast import- 

 ance, and he ventured an opinion that much of tiie disappointment 

 often experienced in Arctic navigation arose from overlooking 

 it, and in regarding the warm cui'ient as the active agent in ciicu- 

 la.tion. 



In examining the Davidson, the Muir, and other glaciers, it also 

 occurred to him that there were active agencies at work, over- 

 looked by those who had made specialties of glacial study. 

 Beneath the Muir glacier, which was said b}' various authorities 

 to be about four hundred miles long, a large volume of water was 

 flowing in a rapid torrent — this volume, on a carefully considered 

 guess, being about one hundred feet wide with an average depth 

 of four leet. According to information from a white man who had 

 long lived with the Indians of this section, this subglacial river 

 was flowing in about the same volume, summer and wintei*. The 

 mouth of this glacier hung over into the sea, and formed icebergs 

 in three dillerent modes. Sometimes the edge of the glacier would, 

 in its thinner sections, float over and be lifted off" b}- the rise and 

 fall of the tide; at otiier times huge masses would break off by 

 tUeir own weight; and at other times the upper edges, wliich, by 

 the action of running surface water, would be worn into all sorts 

 of rough forms, would toj^ple over, rubbing their faces against the 

 more solid ice, and making a sound which reverberated through 

 t^e ranges of hills like peals of artillery, and wliich could be 

 lieard many miles away. There were thousands of smaller ice- 

 bergs floating down Gi lacier Bi\y, the most of these evidently 

 formed by the latter mode. It was not safe for the vessel on 

 which he made the visit to approach nearer than a quarter of a 

 mile to the face of this glacier, where it anchored for a day in 

 or <er to make tiie examination ; but it vvas near enough, especially' 

 with the aid of the ship's boats and good field-glasses, to make 

 excellent observations. So far as could be ascertained through 

 occasional deep fissures, no water came out from under the face of 

 the glacier to the ocean. The mass of ice was apparently lying- 

 flat on a bed of rock, the ice occupying a width of something less 

 than two miles, and estimated to be about 300 feet thick on an 

 average of its whole width. This would, of course, obstruct the 

 run of water directly to the ocean, and thus we had the lateral 

 flow which diverged from the glacier's bed about four miles from 

 its mouth. The Davidson glacier, in Pyramid Harbor, had retreated 

 from the ocean, and by comparing facts observed in tracing a 

 portion of its bed with what was seen in connection v/ith this 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



torrent from tlie Muir glacier, it was evident that during a glacier's 

 existence tlie underfiowing river might often become dammed, and 

 tlie torrent diverted, carrying ghicial deposits to sections of country 

 long distances away from the track of the glacier, and through 

 portions of country over whicli glaciers had never flowed. And 

 there might be immense glacial deposits left by a glacier constantly 

 retreating, and after many sul)sequent years, bj' the diversion of 

 the glacial river, a new channel and new remains may be deposited 

 through the mass, even by another distant and distinct glacier. 

 This was actually the case in this instance. This stream had 

 torn its way thiough immense hills of glacial deposits, many 

 hundreds of feet deep, exposing to view the trunks, still standing 

 erect, of a buried forest, though not a stick of forest-growth, 

 except a few alders and willows, could be seen anywhere in tlie 

 vicinity, as far as the eye could reach, and sugjjjesting that the 

 original deposit was not made Ijy the existing glacier, the waters 

 of which now tore their way through the huge hills. 



Tl e question would now arise as to the source of the water 

 supplying the subglacial river-bed. It would be well to carry 

 some ascertained facts along with us in this examination. An 

 iceberg of more than usual dimensions had got aground in 

 Glacier Bay, and, having one good, fair face, it was found by 

 careful soundings that the vessel could be placed close alongside. 

 At seven and a half fathoms, we were able to hitch on to the great 

 block, the sides of which projected far above our deck. The 

 surface of this berg exhibite<l, in a small way, all the features of 

 a tract of land : lakes, rapids, waterfalls, hills and valley's ; in 

 some places, eartli and stones. To-day the course of a water- 

 channel might be in one direction, till a falling piece of ice or earth 

 would block it up, when a source would be opened for a new direc- 

 tion, and the little streams, once started, would form in a short 

 space of time wide and d. ep chasms. A piece of rock, by its 

 dark color attracting the sun's raj's, would sink deep into the 

 berg, while earth, porous and non-conducting, would prevent 

 melting; and thus we would have mounds on the berg where the 

 surroundings, clear of earth, would be melted away. The action 

 of the sun on melting portions of the berg was interesting. The 

 thermometer was but 42° ; yet on any side where the sun fell, 

 even at this low temperature, the little streams and rivulets were 

 coursing their way to the great ocean around. But on the 

 northern slopes, there were barelv any streams, except such as 

 originated on the sunnier sides. In fact, it was demonstrated 

 that wherever the sun struck on ice, even at a low temperature, 

 the deposition of water occurred. What he had carefully noted 

 on this icef^erg he had before noted on high mountain peaks: 

 there would be always some melting from the face of a snow- 

 bank, no matter how low the temperature, where the sun shone 

 fairly on it, and the water would sink to the bottom of this mass. 

 On this iceberg there were clefts and rifts and wells furrowed hy 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



the gathering together of melted water into small pools or lakes, 

 or over where dark stones had sunk by the agency of the sun's 

 warmth ; but in no case had the holes or cavities penetrated 

 whollj^ through the iceberg, except on its thinnest outer edges. 

 The temperature necessary for melting was reduced with the 

 depth, till at length there was not heat enough to melt further. 

 The facts all tended to show that very little water would 

 pass through a glacier bj- way of its surface. Some may pass 

 over to the sides, and get beneath in tliat wa}^ but the outer 

 ledges of ice seemed to rest very firmly on the ground, as it neces- 

 sarily must from its arch-like form, owing to the river beneath 

 and the immense weight pressing on the edges of this arch ; only 

 occasionally can water be admitted that way, and scarcely could 

 anywhere the volume so acquired be described as flowing from the 

 side of the main glacier. What becomes of the melting snow on 

 the snow-cap of the glacier, the continual and almost imper- 

 ceptible meltings under the sun's influence at these heights? A 

 prevailing impression is that glacier-ice is but snow which has 

 become ice by the enormous pressure of so thick a body. If this 

 be so, water thawed out from the snow by the sun's rays could 

 not percolate far below the surface of the snow, and there seems 

 no wa}' left to account for the river beneath. If this be not so, 

 then the way would be clear. With no ice below the snow, with 

 the thermometer at the ground above the freezing-point, through 

 the natural warmth of the earth protected by the snow-cap from 

 escaping, the percolating water would descend to the surface of 

 the mountain-top, part entering to furnish fountain-heads for 

 springs and underground streams, running often hundreds of miles 

 awav,and the balance running down under the ice-channel formed 

 by the glacier. 



It seems such a fair assumption that this may be so, that it is 

 worth while to consider the evidence offered for the belief that 

 glacier-ice is snow under the pressure of its own weight. Snow 

 has been artifically brought under pressure to ice, but such ice is 

 mot translucent, as is ordinary crystallized ice. The ice of the 

 Alaska glaciers is remarkably clear, and, when in the proper 

 •position against the atmosphere, presents the most lovely cerulean 

 tints imaginable. One of the speaker's pleasantest experiences 

 was a wandering among the wrecks of icebergs strewn all along 

 the shore, in Hoona or Bartlett Bay.^ 



No crystal could possibly be clearer than the fragments strewn 

 ■everywhere along the beach. The only difference observed 

 between this and the ordinary ice of every-day experience was 

 that, melting in the mouth, it would divide into pieces of the size 

 of peas before wholly uncongealed. Again, from the vessel 



1 At page 187, Proceedings of the Academy, 1883, Hood's Bay was 

 inadvertently used for Hoona Bay. Hood's Bay is some hundred miles 

 south of this point. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



anchored a quarter of a mile from the face of the Muir glacier 

 the portion to the southeast for a distance of perhai)S a thousand 

 feet, as examined by the field-glass, was of a different character to 

 the rest of the face in having a milky white, marble-like look. 

 The line of demarkation between this opaque and the transparent 

 ice was exactly defined. It was not possible to get nearer for a 

 more satisfactory examination, but the conclusion of all was that 

 this portion was compressed snow. At this point the ice-sea had 

 to draw in, through passing an intruding bluff of rocks, and the 

 lateral pressure must have been enormous between the bluff and 

 the solid ice. It w'ould be the best possible opportunity for a 

 mass of snow, carried down from the mountain side, and floated 

 along on the margin of a wide glacier, to become ice if pressure 

 would ever do it. It cannot, of course, be positively stated that 

 this opaque section was compressed snow, in the absence of 

 actual handling, but there is little room for doubt that it was. It 

 was, at any rate, an opaque section, and wholl}-^ diffeient from the 

 glacier-ice as generally seen. Again, from the amount of air- 

 cavities in snow, and the resistance these must offer to the self- 

 pressure of snow, and also from actual experience of deep snow- 

 drifts in ordinary mountain ranges, there is nothing to warrant a 

 belief, outside of an actual demonstration, that the pi*essure of any 

 depth of snow is of itself suflflcicnt to turn it into glacier-ice. 



If now we admit that above the glacial snow-line and under the 

 great snow-cap there may not be solid ice formed by compression, 

 but there may be a huge lake of water held back by the icy 

 breast-work at the snow's edge, we may conceive of a method of 

 forming the glacial sea quite diflferent from any already proposed. 

 The water must and will flow out from the edge of the snow-line 

 when the temperature is far below freezing-point, and form a 

 fringe of ice all along the line. How this is done can be readily 

 seen passing under the snow-sheds of a mountain railroad. 



On the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad, passing over Marshall's 

 Pass, 14,000 feet altitude, as the speaker did in May of the present 

 year, the melted snow passed as water through the mass to the 

 bottom, then passed down the mountain-side under the snow to the 

 snow-shed, where it formed real glaciers down the railroad — cutting 

 under the sheds to the railway track. The law must of necessity 

 be the same on a mountain-top in Alaska as on a mountain-top in 

 the Rocky Mountain region. Snow occurring after this icy deposit 

 was formed, w^ould extend down the mountain over the ice, and 

 new layers of ice would be continually forming over the old la^'ers, 

 or on their edges with the occasional retrocession of the snow. 

 A portion of the water at the snow-head will naturally course 

 under the ice, and form a channel beneath. This will increase in 

 width and depth with time. In the torrent which sprung out 

 from above the mouth of the Muir glacier myriads of stones, 

 some of them of many cubic feet iu size, were borne along by the 

 muddy waters. The force of the water, as well as the added 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



force of the rolling stones against the roofs of the glaciers, must 

 have some influence on its descent, as also would the weight of 

 water under the snow forming the cap, pressing against it at the 

 highest point of the glacial departure. The roof of the glacier 

 above the torrent would possibly get worn away somewhat by the 

 friction of the torrent ; but as ice is now known to be ductile, it 

 would bend down towards the water when anj- great hollowing 

 out occurred, and get aid in its downward flow. We may further 

 imagine tiat under such an explanation as this, the edges of the 

 glacier would have much more of excoriating power, than when 

 the whole mass is spread equally over a wide rocky bed. 



In regard to the existence of the glaciers, Mr. Meehan observed 

 that in many instances there were evidences of rapid retreat. 

 Davidson's glacier, at the head of P3'ramid Harbor, near the 

 mouth of the Chilkat River, in about lat. 59", had fallen back 

 several miles from the water in the bay. Having but little more 

 than half a da}' on shore at this point, an effort to reach the mouth 

 of the glacier failed through taking a "short cut" through a 

 forest of alder and spruce, the undergrowth of the spiny Pana 

 horj'ida being almost impassable. But field-glass observation from 

 the vessel, together with the examination of the track of the 

 retreating ice, showed successiA'e terraces of moraine material, 

 with succeeding generations of trees on them in the supposed 

 distance of three miles from the sea to the glacier's mouth. Near 

 the glacier the trees ai)peared to be about twenty or twent^'-flve 

 years old ; nearer the sea, from seventy-five to one hundred. But 

 here, as in the Muir glacier, there were evidences of frequent 

 advances and of retrocession in the glacial material. Trees which 

 from their size may have been from thirt}' to fift}' years of age, 

 would have a deposit of twent}^ or thirt}' feet of material placed 

 around them, half burying them, and then again have it all cleared 

 away, leaving the dead trunks to tell the story. 



The volume of water now flowing in the line vacated by the 

 glacier, is not near equal to the work which has been done in 

 former times; and the less quantit}' with the retreat of the glacier 

 itself, while other glaciers not fifty miles away still continue their 

 connection with the water, shows that local causes may be at work 

 which may either retard or accelerate a glacier's progress. As 

 already' noted, the warmth of the atmosphere near a glacier's mouth 

 will, in a great measure, depend on the volume of cold water pro- 

 jected into the ocean — the greater the A'olume, the more influence 

 on the warm current which must be drawn in to take its place ; 

 and this is as true of the atmosphere as of the water. The heavy 

 cold body pushes the higher warmed air upwards, which has to 

 take the place of the air which rolls forward towards the lighiened 

 spot. Hence the greater the volume of cold air departing, the 

 larger and stronger the current of lighter and warmer air which 

 returns to the source of motion, so the temperature is not low in 

 the vicinity of the glaciers. On the icebei'g before described, the 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 255 



thermometer indicated 42° ; but a quarter of a mile from the 

 immense body forming the mouth of the Muir glacier, the tem- 

 perature was 60 . These Avarm currents, however, vary with the 

 drafts tlirough the mountains. Within comparatively short dis- 

 tances, tlie temperature would vary from between 40° and 60° at 

 the time referred to. In the winter season the difference would 

 be the more remarkable, and hence a mountain or glacier torrent;, 

 cutting out for itself a new channel, and making a deep rift in a 

 mountain, would originate a new current — warmer of colder, as the 

 case might be — which must have an influence on the progress or 

 decrease of the glacier itself. The operations of these changes iii 

 the atmospheric currents were very evident in the vicinity of the 

 Davidson glacier. Sometimes through chasms in the mountains 

 near, the whole mass of timber on either side wouM be quite dead 

 after having made a successful stand for from twenty-five to fifty 

 years, by the work of some severe cold current, which, 113- some 

 local change, had found its wa^- along the course. Near by, on 

 land no better, quite as steep, and in no way more favorable to the 

 growth of vegetation, the timber would be perfectly healthy, the 

 only difference being in the freedom fiom the atmospheric current 

 that had destroyed the others. In short, the age of the trees on 

 the successive terraces left by the waters along the line of the 

 glacier's retreat, showed how much had been done within a com- 

 paratively recent period, and other attending facts showed that 

 local causes, induced by the glacier itself, may rapidly retard or 

 aceelei-ate its development at various periods in its existence. 



In the retreat of the glaciers, in this part of Alaska, an alder, 

 Alnioi viridis, was apparently the first arborescent plant to 

 establish itself. Large tracts of the drift would be wholly 

 covered by a dense, bushy growth. In time, however, many of 

 these would advance to the dimensions of large timber-trees, 

 surprising to those who might hive only seen them as eight- or 

 ten-feet bushes in other parts of the United States In the woods 

 bordering on the Davidson glacier, the speaker saw Indians at 

 work making canoes dug-outs) from the trunks of this alder. 



Favorable Influence of Climate on Vegetation in Alaska. — In his 

 remarks on glaciers in Alaska, Mr. Thomas Meehan observed that 

 on the tops of what are known as " totem-poles " in some of the 

 Indian villages, trees of very large size would ofcen be seen 

 growing. These poles are thick logs of hemlock or spruce, set 

 up before the doors of Indian lodges, carved all over with queer 

 characters representing living creatures of every description, and 

 which are supposed to be genealogies, or to tell of some famous 

 fvent in the family history. Thej' are not erected by Indians 

 now, and it is difficult to get any connected accounts of what 

 they really tell. At the old village of Kaigan there arc numbers 

 of poles erected, Avith no carving at all on them, among many 

 which are whollv covered, and these all had one or more 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



trees of Abies Sitkensis growing on them. One tree must have 

 been about twenty years old, and was half as tall as the pole 

 on which it was growing. The pole may have been twenty feet 

 high. The roots had descended the whole length of the poles, and 

 had gone into the ground, from which tlie larger trees now derived 

 nourishment. In one case, the root had grown so large as to split 

 the thick pole on one side from the bottom to the top, and this root 

 projected, along the whole length to the ground, about two inches 

 be3'oud the outer circumference of the pole. Only in an atmos- 

 phere surcharged with moisture could a seed sprout on the top of 

 a pole, twenty feet from the ground, and continue for 3'ears to 

 grow almost or quite as well as if it were in the ground. 



We may also understand b}^ incidents like these how tree-life 

 endured so very long in this part of Alaska, and why rocky accliv- 

 ities, on which no vegetation at all could exist in the dr}' climate of 

 the eastern States, were here clothed with a luxuriant fresh growth, 

 so thick that it was almost impossible for one to make a journey 

 through it. Indians had very few trails ; most of their journeys 

 were by canoes. At this village he also saw a bush of Lonivera 

 involucrata, which was of immense size, as compared with what he 

 had seen in Colorado and other places. This was at the back of 

 an Indian lodge and alongside of a pathway, cut against the 

 hill-side. The plant was growing on the bank and grew up 

 some ten or twelve feet, where it bent over, apparently of its 

 own accord, and rested on the roof of the lodge, its numerous 

 branches making a dense arbor under which the road passed. 

 The stems near the ground were, some of them, as thick as his 

 arm, and the whole plant was covered by very large black berries. 

 Stopping in admiration to look at and examine the specimen, 

 brought numbers of Indians to see what was the subject, who 

 smiled pleasantly on being made to understand that only the sight 

 of a huge bush had attracted the traveler. Subsequently another 

 specimen was noted in the woods on a plant of the native hem- 

 lock, Abies MertenMana. In the woods the plant is somewhat 

 sarmentaceous. It could not climb a hemlock without assistance. 

 This old hemlock was bereft of branches to about twent}' feet 

 high, but the Lonicera was above the lower branches, and had 

 journeyed along them to the extremities, beyond which it was 

 beautifull}' in fruit. It could onl^- have been there by growing up 

 with the hemlock when that tree was joung, and was probably of 

 about the same age. The Indian village of Kaigan is not properly 

 in Alaska, but just over the border in British Columbia, at the 

 southeastern point of Alaska, but the climatic conditions are 

 about the same. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 257 



NOTES ON GLACIAL ACTION IN NORTHERN NEW YORK AND CANADA. 

 BY JOSEPH WILLCOX. 



In a former communication I have noted some results from 

 glacial action in northern New York and Canada. I have recently 

 observed some other matters connected with the same action, in 

 that region, viz., in Lewis, Jefferson and St. Lawrence Counties 

 in New York, and in Canada, for a distance of one hundi'ed and 

 twenty-five miles north of the St. Lawrence River. 



In this territory all the original soil appears to have been 

 removed b}' glacial action, and that which now remains there has 

 been deposited b}' the receding glacier. It is thinly distributed, 

 seldom being many feet in depth ; while, in many cases, the rocks 

 have no soil upon them. All the rocks are extensively eroded, 

 and those which are durable still remain smooth — both above the 

 ground and underneath — wherever I have seen the soil removed. 



In the countrj^ south of the great terminal moraine, which 

 extends across our continent, the soil is usually deep, especially 

 in our Southern States. The top of the rocks, under this deep 

 soil, is ordinarily in a state of disintegration ; and the different 

 stages of transition from hard rock to soil may easily be observed. 

 Loose stones, on top of and in the soil, are more or less decom- 

 posed on their surface, relinquishing their substance slowly, as 

 new virgin soil, for the needs of vegetation. Where the country 

 has been extensively glaciated, this condition of the rocks and 

 stones does not exist, the soft portion of them having been 

 removed by attrition, and, since the glacial times, little disinte- 

 gration of the surface of the granite and Pottsdam sandstone has 

 occurred. 



If the great ice sheet should have receded north speedil3-, by 

 rapid melting, less material would, of course, be deposited on the 

 ground, than in the case of a slow retrogression. In the former 

 case little would be deposited, in any localit}', except what was 

 already on the ground, in the process of ti'ansportation. 



Taking the country north of Philadelphia as illustrating prob- 

 ably the conditions prevailing elsewhere within the glaciated area, 

 I have observed that north of the great terminal moraine a large 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



amount of silt has been deposited, as moraine material, by the 

 receding glacier, as far north as Trenton Falls, in New York, but 

 not much farther. On the north side of the Mohawk Vallej', 

 from Utiea to Schenectady, vast deposits of glacial drift may be 

 seen. North of Trenton Falls the deposits appear to diminish 

 rapidly in quantity, so that I observed no large accumulations 

 near the St. Lawrence Rivev or north of it. The farther north I 

 proceeded the smaller the deposits appeared to be, including the 

 ordinary surface soil. 



From the above facts I consider there are reasonable grounds 

 for suspecting that the glacier receded slowly from Pennsylvania 

 until its southern limit was not far north of the Mohawk River, 

 and then it was withdrawn more rapidly, with increasing speed, 

 as it proceeded north. 



Some geologists consider that there was not a great amount of 

 glacial erosion accomplished upon the rocks in Pennsylvania. I 

 believe that the erosion proceeded with much greater effect in 

 Canada than in this State. While progressing from the north 

 the glacier would operate on the rocky surface of Canada during 

 a long time before it would reach the latitude of Penns^-lvania. 

 Also during its decline it would still continue its abrasion in 

 Canada long after it had retreated from our State. 



I have observed, in northern New York and Canada, that where 

 the country is level it is often covered with Silurian limestones or 

 sandstones, but where it is hilh^ the Laurentian rocks usually 

 prevail. In the latter case the Silurian rocks may have formerly 

 existed and been removed, as they were more effectually' exposed 

 to the glacial erosion. 



Many sharp, angular stones are scattered over the ground in 

 Canada among the rounded boulders. These evidently have not 

 been transported far from the parent rock, but they are suggestive 

 of the fact that, even near the close of the glacier's career, rocks 

 were still being torn into fragments. These fragments were 

 chiefly broken loose from the southwestern portions of the rocks. 



As a shallow soil prevails in the district referred to, the trees 

 do not obtain a deep, substantial hold upon the ground ; conse- 

 quentl3' they are easily blown down by the storms, and the forests 

 are filled with prostrate trees, which make travel a difficult oper- 

 ation there. When the forests are cleared off, the ground is in a 




1883. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



verj' rough condition. A bole in the ground indicates the place 

 where a tree formerly stood, "while a pile of earth alongside 

 denotes the place where the roots of the prostrated tree trans- 

 ported and deposited the soil that was in the hole. Large fields 

 may be seen, the surfaces of which are almost wholl}'^ broken up 

 into holes and piles of earth, b}- the prostration of trees. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



November 13. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



The following was ordered to be published : — 



OBITUAKY NOTICE OF CHAKLES F. PARKER. 



BY ISAAC C. MARTINDALE. 



When a man has given to the service of the public good the 

 best years of his life, and that life perhaps shortened in conse- 

 quence of his devotion and faithfulness to known duties, it 

 should rest with some survivor to so place upon the historic 

 laage this record, that perchance some disconsolate and weary 

 follower, ready to faint by the way, " seeing may take heart 

 again," For such a life is a conspicuous mark on the highway 

 of honest endeavor, and a beacon light ever before the devoted 

 inquirer after truth. 



• Hence I have assumed to place herein a notice of the life and 

 services of Charles F. Parker, late Curator-in-charge of this 

 Academy. 



His parents resided in Philadelphia, where he was born on the 

 9th day of November, 1820. His mother d3'ing when he was but 

 an infant, he was deprived of a mother's love to stimulate and 

 encourage him in his undertakings. 



His father, being in humble circumstances, was able to give 

 him but a limited education. Charles, as soon as he was old 

 enough to be of any service, was apprenticed to bookbinding ; 

 his father having long been engaged in that business. 



He remained in Philadelphia until about the age of 22 years, 

 when he went to Boston and engaged in the same business. 

 After residing there about two years he married Martha Kellom, 

 and in 1851 left Boston and moved to Leominster, where he 

 opened a book-store, and cai'ried on bookbinding on his own 

 account. This business enterprise, not being so successful as he 

 had hoped, was abandoned in 1853, and he removed to Camden, 

 New Jersey, where he resided during the remainder of his life. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



About two 3'ears after the death of his mother, his father 

 married again, and when the father died in 1835, his widow con- 

 tinued to carry on the bookbinding, and Charles became a partner 

 and assumed the management of the business, subsequently 

 conducting the woik on his own account. 



As a business man he was extremely conscientious in having 

 his work performed at the exact time that had. been agreed upon ; 

 and he attained an enviable reputation as a neat workman — to 

 such an extent, that services in his business which required the 

 utmost care and nicety were sure to be sent to him to be per- 

 formed, and he would not undertake any kind of work that was 

 expected to be done in a cheap or hurried manner. Having the 

 oversight and employment of others for many j-ears, his just 

 treatment of them alwa^ys gave him the choice of the best work- 

 men, and those who were, satisfactory remained year after year 

 in his eraplov. 



During the earlier part of his life he did not manifest an}- 

 especial interest in natural history ; yet for a long time he was a 

 companion of C. S. Rafinesque, the well-known naturalist, who 

 boarded in the same house. This was during the latter part of 

 the life of Rafinesque, when he was engaged in the manufacture 

 of medicines, which he contended were for the relief of " all the 

 ills that flesh is heir to." The writer has repeatedly heard 

 narrated some of the incidents in the life of this naturalist which 

 occurred during those years, and which seemed to have made a 

 lasting impression on the mind of our friend C. F. Parker ; so 

 much so that I am led to believe the love for natural science, 

 which developed in the later 3-ears of his life, was from some of 

 the seed then sown. One of these incidents, so characteristic of 

 the eccentric Rafinesque, ma}' be mentioned here : Charles was 

 quite fond of remaining in bed at a later hour in the morning 

 than usual when he was not expected to be at his place of busi- 

 ness, and often entertained himself by singing some favorite 

 tune; on one such occasion Rafinesque heard the usual melodious 

 sounds, and went to the room door, which he quickly opened, 



exclaiming, 



" He who sings in bed instead of sleeping, 

 And whistles at the table instead of eating, 

 Is either crazy or soon will be." 



Having thus relieved his mind, he went away to his own quiet 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



musings, which he did not seek to brighten by such displays of 

 levity oi' cheer. 



Very soon after making Camden his home, Charles became 

 interested in conchology, although he had never seen a collection 

 of shells, nor known anything of their scientific arrangement or 

 method of study ; neither was he acquainted with any one at 

 work in that department of natural history-. His attention also 

 became directed towards insects, especially butterflies and beetles, 

 and learning that a society had been formed for their study, he 

 applied for membership in the Entomological Societ}' of Phila- 

 delphia, and was elected November 11, ISHl. 



This brought him in contact with men of science, and gave 

 him an opportunity to examine books and specimens that he had 

 never known of befoi'e, opening a new life and infusing a zeal 

 which increased with advancing j-ears. 



The study of conchology and entomology opened the way for 

 other branches of natural history; and having become a frequent 

 visitor at this Academy, he was brought into intimate relations 

 with several of its members who were pursuing the study of 

 botan}' and making collections of plants in the immediate neigh- 

 borhood of Philadelphia. He soon became interested with them 

 in their pursuits, and took up the same stud}' Avitli especial 

 zeal. "Withnl, he never neglected his business, nor failed to keep 

 his appointments and engagements therein. He was elected to 

 membership in the Academ}' on the 29th of August, 18G.5, and 

 forthwith entered heartily into work, for it will be remembered 

 that at this time the collections were not well arranged, owing 

 to the limited space occupied, and the want of means to secure 

 the services of competent workmen; so that almost all of the 

 labor performed was voluntary' and gratuitous. 



His earliest labors in the Academy were directed to the con- 

 chological collection, and for seven years he devoted a large 

 portion of the time that could be spared from his business to its 

 systematic arrangement, preparing and mounting during that 

 period about one hundred thousand specimens, in a st^de which, 

 for neatness and adaptabilit}' for scientific study, has not been 

 excelled. This labor, perhaps the greatest volunteer work ever 

 done in the Academy, was only finished a short time before it 

 became necessary to pack the Academj-'s museum for removal to 

 the present building; he immediately^ engaged in this labor, and 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 2!!3 



had alreacl}^ devoted much time to it, when it became apparent to 

 his fellow-members that the Academy would be greatly benefited 

 by employing him permanontly for a compensation. In 1874 he 

 was elected one of the Curators, and on solicitation was induced 

 to partially give up his business as a bookbinder and accept the 

 meagre amount which the Society could afford to paj- him, 

 giving in return the greater part of his time to its work. The 

 entire museum was removed imder his direction and arranged in 

 cases in this building in a verj- short period — the actual removal 

 being accomplished in about a month, the unpacking and display 

 in the cases in about five months. He has been annually re-elected 

 one of the Curators of the Academy at successive elections, 

 invariably receiving the full number of votes cast, however many 

 candidates were in nomination, thus showing the value and appre- 

 ciation of his services. 



Although he continued his interest in the study of conchology 

 and entomology, and made quite extensive collections in both of 

 these departments, be seemed to have taken an especial fondness 

 for the study of botany, which he never afterward allowed to 

 falter. He was one of the first to discover that the ballast 

 deposits in and around Philadelphia and Camden were prolific in 

 introduced plants, and his knowledge of conchologj- sometimes 

 enabled him to determine the part of the world from which those 

 deposits came, as occasionall3- fragments of shells were found 

 therein. 



In one of his journeyings to the swamps of Cape May County 

 he met Coe F. Austin, the noted cryptogramic botanist, who died 

 at Closter, X. J., a few years ago, and who at that time was 

 engaged in the study of the flora of Xew Jersey. There at once 

 sprang up a real friendship between them, which increased as 

 time advanced, terminating onl}' when Austin died. The interest, 

 however, which had been created to endeavor to complete a list 

 of the plants of New Jersey was not allowed to abate ; and for 

 several 3'ears past, in connection with other botanists, the work 

 has been approaching completion to such an extent that a 

 preliminary catalogue has been compiled b}^ X. L. Britton, and 

 printed under the auspices of the Geological Survey of Xew 

 Jersey, in which the name of C, F. Parker frequently appears. 

 Probably no botanist has made more frequent visits to the pine 

 barrens and swamps of that State, nor collected so extensively 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



of her flora, as he did ; the same ready tact displaj^ed in the work 

 of his hands everj^where has been especially noticeable in the prep- 

 aration of his herbarium specimens ; they are at once character- 

 istic and good, so much so that exchanges were desired from him 

 by the noted botanists of the country, and to-day his specimens 

 enrich many private collections and herbariums of institutions of 

 the United States and Europe. The collection of New Jersey 

 plants which he has left is one of the finest and most perfect that 

 exists, and of itself is a monument of patience and skill of which 

 an^^ one might feel proud. 



The annual reports of the officers of the Academy, of late 

 years, show somewhat of the service he has rendered. The 

 mounting of specimens presented, and their arrangement, has 

 been one of great labor, requiring skill, patience and care. The 

 neatness displayed, so characteristic of the man, has made the 

 collections of the Academy of inestimable value to the scientific 

 world and an ornament to the institution itself. Since occupying 

 its present building, between thirty and forty thousand additional 

 specimens of shells have been received, all of which have been 

 mounted by him, and nearly all outside of the hours in which he 

 was employed by the Academ}^, and without compensation. He 

 was one of the founders of the Conchological Section and of the 

 Botanical Section, and was active in their proceedings. 



It has well been said he was a born naturalist ; he had a quick 

 eye and good judgment in perceiving and estimating specific 

 characters, and an excellent memory. His knowledge of con- 

 chology was probabl}' almost as extensive as his acquirements in 

 botany, although he was, perhaps, more widely known in the 

 latter department. What he knew he was always ready to impart 

 to others, and the many naturalists who have consulted the col- 

 lections of the Academy during his curatorship invariably received 

 from him valuable and generous aid. 



The service which he gave to this Academy, the self-sacrificing 

 devotion to its interests ever manifested by him, proved at last 

 to be the weapon of his own destruction. In the early part of 

 the present year his health rapidly gave way, so that he was 

 obliged to refrain from continuous work. The Council of the 

 Academy, mindful of his eminent services, unanimously granted 

 him leave of absence for the summer months, in order that rest 

 might, if possible, restore his wasted energies and give back 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



to the Academy his invaluable services ; but too late ! The 

 disease gradually assumed a more serious character, and at last 

 paralysis of the brain set in, which terminated his life on the 

 seventh da}' of September, 1883, in the sixty -third 3'^ear of his age. 

 My acquaintance with him, extending back nearly a quarter of 

 a century, has given me full opportunity to know his character 

 -and judge of his worth. Had he been favored with good oppor- 

 tunities for school education in earl}- years, he doubtless would 

 have ranked among the eminent scientists of the day ; 3^et the 

 record which he has left of overcoming the many obstacles of 

 life, of his rigid adherence to right, his extremely conscientious 

 desire to be found faithful in all his undertakings, and the work 

 of his hands in all the departments in which he found engage- 

 ment, have given him a record and a name which must ever 

 remain ; whilst the memory of his many social qualities well 

 known to me serves to make up the triplicate of naturalist, 

 companion, and friend. 



November 20. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 

 The following were presented for publication : — 

 "Notes on American Fishes preserved in the Museums at 

 Berlin, London, Paris and Copenhagen," by David S. Jordan. 

 " The Occident Ant in Dakota," by Rev. H. C. McCook. 

 " Staining with Haematoxylon," by Chas. L. Mitchell, M. D. 

 The death of John L. LeConte, M. D., a member, was announced. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [188^ 



ON THE VALUE OF THE "NEARCTIC AS ONE OF THE PRIMARY ZOOLOG- 

 ICAL REGIONS. REPLIES TO CRITICISMS BY MR. ALFRED RUSSEL 

 WALLACE AND PROF. THEODORE GILL. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The subjoined criticism by Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace on my 

 paper entitled " On the Value of the " Nearctic ' as one of the 

 I'rimary Zoological Eegions," published in the Proceedings of 

 the Academy- for December, 1882, and my reply thereto, appear 

 in Nature under dates of March 22 and April 26 of this year: — 

 "In the Proceedivgs of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia (December, 1882), Prof. Angelo Heilprin has an 

 article under the above title in which he seeks to show that the 

 Ncarctic and Palaearctic should form one region, for which he 

 proposes the somewhat awkward name ' Triarctic Region,' or the 

 region of the three northern continents. The reasons for this 

 proposal are, that in the chief vertebrate classes the proportion 

 of peculiar forms is less in both the Nearctic and Palaearctic than 

 in any of the other regions ; while if these two regions are com- 

 bined, they will, together, have an amount of peculiarity greater 

 than some of the tropical regions. 



" This may be quite true w'ithout leading to the conclusion 

 argued for. The best division of the earth into zoological regions 

 is a question not to be settled by looking at it from one point of 

 view alone ; and Prof. Heilprin entirely' omits two considerations 

 — peculiarity due to the absence of widespread groups, and 

 geographical Individuality. The absence of the families of hedge- 

 hogs, swine and dormice, and of the genera 3Ieles, Eqtnis, Bos, 

 Gazella, Mus, Cricetus, Meriones, Dipus and Hystrix, among 

 mammals ; and of the important families of fly-catchers and 

 starlings, the extreme rarity of larks, the scarcity* of warblers, 

 and the absence of such widespread genera as Acrocephalus, 

 Hypolai.<, liuticilla, Saxicola, Accentor, Garrulus, Fringilla, 

 Eviheriza, Motacila, Yunx, Guculus, Caprimulgus, Perdix, 

 Goturnix,i\.nd all the true pheasants, among birds, many of which 

 groups may almost be said to characterize the Old World as 

 compared with the New, must surelj' be allowed to have great 

 weight in determining this question. 



" The geographical individuality of the two regions is of no 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



less importance, and if we once quit these well-marked and most 

 natural primary divisions we shall, I believe, open up questions 

 as regards the remaining regions which it will not be easy to set 

 at rest. There runs through Prof. Heilprin's paper a tacit assump- 

 tion that there should be an equivalence, if not an absolute 

 equality, in the zoological characteristics and peculiarities of all 

 the regions. But even after these two are united, there will 

 remain discrepancies of almost equal amount among the rest, 

 since in some groups the Neotropical, in others the Australian, 

 far exceed all other regions in their specialt3\ ^^^e temperate 

 and cold parts of the globe are neces^arih^ less marked b}^ highly 

 peculiar groups than the tropical areas, because thej' have been 

 recently subjected to great extremes of climate, and have thus 

 not been able to preserve so many ancient and specialized forms 

 as the more uniformly warm areas. But, taking this fact into 

 account, it seems to me that the individuality of the Nearctic 

 and Palaearctic regions is ver^^ well marked, and much greater 

 than could have been anticipated ; and I do not think that natur- 

 alists in general will be induced to give them up by any such 

 arguments as are here brought forward. 



"Alfred R. Wallace," 



Reply to the preceding : — 



" Permit me to make a few remarks relative to Mr. Wallace's 

 criticism {Nature^ vol. xxvii, p. 482) of m}^ paper on ' The Value 

 of the Nearctic as one of the Primarx' Zoological Regions.' 

 Briefly stated, it is maintained in the early portion of this paper 

 (1) that the Nearctic ' and Palsearctic faunas taken individually 

 exhibit, in comparison with the other regional faunas (at least 

 the Neotropical, Ethiopian and Australian), a marked absence 

 of positive distinguishing characters, a deficiency which in the 

 mammalia extends to families, genera, and species, and one 

 which, in the case of the Nearctic region, also equally (or nearly 

 so) distinguishes the reptilian and amphiliian faunas; (2) that 

 this deficiency is principally due to the circumstance that many 

 groups of animals which would otherwise be peculiar to, or very 

 characteristic of, one or other of the regions, are prevented from 



^ In the paper under consideration, I have given what appear to me satis- 

 factory reasons for detaching certain portions of the Southwestern United 

 Statps from the Nearctic (my Triarctic), and uniting them with the 

 Neotropical region. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



being such b^^ reason of theii' being held in common by the two 

 regions ; and (3) that the Nearctic and Palsearctic faunas taken 

 collectively are more clearly defined from any ot all of the other 

 faunas than either the J^earctic or Paltearctic taken individually. 

 " In reference to these points, Mr. Wallace, while not denying 

 the facts, remarks : * The best division of the earth into zoo- 

 logical regions is a question not to be settled by looking at it 

 from one point of view alone ; and Prof. Heilprin entirely omits 

 two considerations — peculiarity due to the absence of widespread 

 groups, and geographical individuality.' Numerous families and 

 genera from the classes of mammals and birds are then cited as 

 being entirely wanting in the western hemisphere, and which — 

 in many cases almost sufficient to ' characterize the Old World 

 as compared with the New ' — ' must surely be allowed to have 

 great weight in determining this question.' No one can deny 

 that the absence from a given region of certain widespread 

 groups of animals is a factor of very considerable importance in 

 determining the zoological relationship of that region, and one 

 that is not likely to be overlooked by any fair-minded investi- 

 gator of the subject. But the value of this negative character 

 afforded by the absence of certain animal groups as distinguish- 

 ing a given fauna, is in great measure proportional to the extent 

 of the positive character — that furnished by the presence of 

 peculiar groups - and indeed may be said to be entire!}' depen- 

 dent on it. No region can be said to be satisfactorily distin- 

 guished from another without its possessing both positive and 

 negative distinguishing characters. Mr. Wallace has in his 

 several publications laid considerable stress upon the negative 

 features of the Nearctic fauna as separating it from the Palse- 

 arctic or from any other, but he has not, it appears to me, suffi- 

 ciently emphasized the great lack, when comj)ared to other 

 faunas, of the positive element, the consideration of which is the 

 point aimed at in the first portion of mj^ paper, and which has 

 led to the conclusions already stated — that only b}' uniting the 

 Nearctic and Pala?arctic regions do we produce a collective 

 fjxuna which is broadly distinguished by both positive and nega- 

 tive characters from that of anj- other region. If, as Mr. 

 Wallace seems to argue, the absence from North America of 

 the ' families of hedgehogs, swine and dormice, and of the 

 genera Meles, Equus, Bos, Gazella, Mas, Cricelus, Meriones, 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Dipus and Hystrix,'' be sufficient, as far as the mammalian fauna 

 is concerned, to separate that region from the Palsearctic, could 

 not on nearly equallj' strong grounds a separation be effected in 

 the Paltearctic region itself? Thus, if we were to consider the 

 western division of the Palaearctic region, or what corresponds 

 to the continent of Europe of geographers, as constituting an 

 independent region of its own, it would be distinguished from 

 the remainder of what now belongs to the Pala^arctic region by 

 negative characters probably fully as important as those indicated 

 by Mr. Wallace as separating the Nearctic from the Palsearctic 

 region. The European mammalian fauna would be wholly 

 deficient, or nearly so, in the genera JEquus, Moschus, Camelus, 

 Poephagus, Gazella, Oryx, Addo'x, Saiga, Ovis, LagomySj Tamias^ 

 in several of the larger Felidae, as the tiger and leopard, and in 

 a host of other forms. A similar selection could be made from 

 the class of birds (among the most striking of these the Phasi- 

 anidae and StriUhionidse)^ but it is scarcelj'^ necessary in this place 

 to enter upon an enumeration of characteristic forms. Divisions 

 of this kind, to be characterized principally or largely by nega- 

 tive faunal featui-es, could be effected in all the regions, and in 

 some instances with probably more reason than in the case under 

 discussion. 



" But the question suggests itself, what amount of characters, 

 whether positive or negative, or both, is sufficient to distinguish 

 one regional fauna from another ? Mr. Wallace states : ' There 

 runs through Prof. Heilprin's paper a tacit assumption that there 

 should be an equivalence, if not an absolute equality, in the 

 zoological characteristics and peculiarities of all the regions.' 

 Is it to be inferred from this quotation that Mr. Wallace recog- 

 nizes no such general equivalence ? Is a region holding in its 

 fauna, say from 15 to 20 per cent, of peculiar or highly charac- 

 teristic forms, to be considered equivalent in value to one where 

 the faunal peculiarity amounts to 60 to 80 per cent. ? If there 

 be no equivalence of any kind required, why not give to manj^ of 

 the subregions, as now recognized, the full value of region ? 



" Surely, on this method of looking at the question, a province 

 could readily be raised to the rank of a full region. In the 

 matter of geographical individuality little need be said, as the 

 circumstance, whether it be or be not so, that the 'temperate 

 and cold parts of the globe are necessarily less marked by highly 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



peculiar groups than the tropical areas, because they have been 

 recently subjected to great extremes of climate,' does not affect 

 the present issue, seeing that the peculiarity is greatly increased 

 by uniting the two regions in question ; nor does it directly affect 

 the question of the Nearctic-Palsearctic relationship. 



" The second part of my paper deals with the examination of 

 the reptilian and amphibian faunas, and the general conclusion 

 arrived at is: 'That by the community of its mammalian, 

 batrachian and reptilian characters, the Nearctic fauna (exclu- 

 ding therefrom the local faunas of the Sonoran and Lower Cali- 

 fornian subregions. which are Neotropical) is shown to be of a 

 distinctively Old World t3'pe, and to be indissolubly linked to 

 the Palsearctic (of which it forms on!}'- a lateral extension').' 

 Towards this conclusion, which, it is claimed, is also borne out 

 b}' the land and fresh-water mollusca and the butterflies among 

 insects, I am now happ}- to add the further testimony of Mr. 

 Wallace (overlooked when preparing my article) respecting the 

 Coleoptera ('Distribution,' ' Encycl. Britann.,' 9th ed., vii, 

 p. 274). 



"As regards the name ' Triarctic,' by which I intended to 

 designate the combined Nearctic and Palsearctic regions, and 

 which may or may not be ' somewhat awkward,' I beg to state 

 that, at the suggestion of Prof. Alfred Newton (who, as he 

 informs me, has arrived from a study of the bird faunas at con- 

 clusions approximately identical with my own), it has been 

 replaced by 'Holarctic' In conclusion, I would say that, while 

 the views enunciated in my paper may not meet with general 

 acceptance at the hands of naturalists, it is to be hoped that they 

 will not be rejected because they may ' open up questions as 

 regards the remaining regions which it will not be easy to set at 

 rest.' "Angelo Heilprin. 



'■'■Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Apiil 6." 



In the issue of Nature for June T, Prof. Theodore Gill, in an 

 article entitled " The Northern Zoogeographical Regions," submits 

 the following criticisms on my paper supplementary to those of 

 Mr. Wallace : — 



" The facts of zoogeograph}' are so involved, and often appar- 

 ently contradictory, that a skilful dialectician with the requisite 

 knowledge can make a plausible argument for antithetical postu- 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



271 



lates. Prof. Heilprin being a skilful dialectician and well 

 informed, has submitted a prettj'^ argument in favor of the union 

 of the North American or ' Nearctic ' and Eurasiatic or ' Palae- 

 arctic' regions (Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. F/iiL, 1882, pp. 316-334, 

 and Nature, vol. xxvii, p. 606), but Mr. Wallace has, with perfect 

 justness it seems to me, objected to his proposition {Nature, vol. 

 xxvii, pp. 482. 483). As Prof. Heilprin 's arguments have not 

 been entirely' met, however, permit me to submit some further 

 objections to his views. 



" Prof. Heilprin has contended ' (1) that by family, generic, 

 and specific characters, as far as the mammalia are concerned, 

 the Nearctic and Palfearctic faunas taken collectively are more 

 clearly defined from any or all of the other regions than either 

 the Nearctic or Palsearctic taken individually; and (2) that by 

 the communit}' of family, generic and specific charactei's the 

 Nearctic region is indisputably- united to the Palaearctic, of which 

 it forms a lateral extension.' 



" Prof. Heilprin has formulated these conclusions after a sura- 

 mar}' of the families and genera common and peculiar to the 

 regions in question. 



"As to families Prof. Heilprin has presented the following 

 figures : — 



" The proportions of peculiar genera to the entire mammalian 

 faunas of the several regions are stated to be as folloAvs : — 



Nearctic, 

 Palaearctic, . 

 Oriental, 

 Australian, . 

 Ethiopian, , 

 Neotropical, 



"The question may naturally recur, wh}- the line which sep- 




272 PROUiOEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



arates ' regions ' from ' subregions ' should be drawn between 35 

 and 46 per cent, rather than between 46 and 63 or 64 per cent., 

 or even between 64 and 18 per cent. Prof. Heilprin has not told 

 us whj', and I am unable to appreciate the reason therefor. 

 Surely it is not sufficient to answer by simply asking the question 

 put in Nature (p. 606), 



" But an analysis of more (but only approximately) correct 

 figures and a more logical classification of mammals than that 

 adopted by Prof. Heilprin reveal factors materially' contravening 

 the tabular statements of that gentleman. 



" First we must exclude the marine mammals, because their 

 distribution and limitation are determined by other factors than 

 those which regulate the terrestrial ones. A consideration then 

 of the terrestrial forms leads to the following results : — 



"• The Arctamerican or Nearctic region has twenty-seven 

 families, of which eleven are not shared with Eurasia and four 

 are peculiar; it has sixtj' -eight genera, of which forty -five do 

 not enter into Eurasia. 



'' The Eurasiatic or Pala?arctic region has thirt3'-two^ families, 

 of which seventeen are excluded from North America, and it 

 possesses eighty -nine ^ genera, of which sixty have failed to become 

 developed in America. 



" Such contrasts will more than compare generally with those 

 existing between Eurasia and India, and even between the ' Tri- 

 arctic ' or ' Holarctic ' and Indian ' regions,' and the same de- 

 structive process by which the northern regions are abrogated 

 would entail the absorption of the Indian as well into a hetero- 

 geneous whole. The tliree can in fact be well united (as Caenoga?a), 

 and contrasted with a group (Eogiea) consisting of the African, 

 South American, and Australian regions, as I long ago urged 

 (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hint. [4], xv, 251-255, 1875), but the claims 

 of each to be considered as ' regions ' or realms are not thereby 

 afl^ected. " Tueo. Gill, 



*^ Smithsonian Itiitifution, Washington, May 12." 



The above criticisms of Prof. Gill fall into two distinct cate- 

 gories, which may be convenienth' formulated as follows : — 



' These are the groups admitted by Prof. Heilprin, exclusive of the 

 Pinuipeds. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



1, Accepting the data as given, are the conclusions drawn from 

 them necessarily correct ? 



2. Are the data themselves correct ? 



The first of the questions is answered bj' a negative in interro- 

 gation, if so it may be termed. Prof. Gill objects to my (?) method 

 of distinguishing between the larger and smaller zoogeographical 

 divisions, and pointingly submits that " The question may natur- 

 ally recur, wh3' the line which separates 'regions' from 'sub- 

 regions ' should be drawn between 35 and 46 per cent, rather than 

 between 46 and 63 or 64 per cent., or even between 64 and 78 per 

 cent. Prof. Heilprin has not told us why, and I am unable to appre- 

 ciate the reason therefor. Surely it is not sufficient to answer by 

 simply asking the question put in Nature (p. 606)." The problem 

 here stated is certainl}- one that does not admit of a ready logical 

 solution, and one which the writer has never attempted to solve ; 

 nor, as far as he is aware, has its solution ever been effected by 

 any other writer on zoogeography. 78 is indisputably as near to 

 64 as this last is to 46, and but little less near than 46 is to 35 ; 

 and if one or two more terms be added to the series, it may still 

 be contended Avith equal justice that 46 holds approximately the 

 same relation (in this sense) to 35 as 35 does to 25, and 25 to 15 

 as 15 to 5, and so to either end. So far, well and good. But the 

 fact still remains, nevertheless, that a region whose fauna is char- 

 acterized by 90 or 78 per cent, of peculiarities is eminently well 

 defined from any and all other regions; that one whose peculiar- 

 ities amount to 64 or 46 per cent, is considerably less well-defined; 

 and that another, where the peculiarit}' amounts to onlj' 15 or 10 

 per cent., is still less well-defined, and, in fact, scarcely defined at 

 all. If a line of division or separation is to be drawn at all it 

 must be drawn somewhere, and this somewhere must be dictated 

 in great part by common sense. 



As regards the second question (2), Prof. Gill is much more 

 emphatic in his (negative) reph'. In the first place, it is pleaded 

 that the marine mammals ought to have been excluded from any 

 analysis bearing upon the subject of zoogeography, "because 

 their distribution and limitation are determined by other factors 

 than those which regulate the terrestrial ones." But surely if 

 these forms are to be excluded, we might for almost identical 

 reasons exclude the birds, since in the distribution of this class 

 of animals fiictors are involved which are in no way operative in 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



the dispersal of several other classes of land animals, such as the 

 mammals, reptiles, moUusks, etc. And yet it is largel^^ indeed it 

 might be said almost wholly, upon the distribution of birds that 

 the principles of zoogeography, with its existing classification, 

 were originallj' sketched out. Granting, however, for the sake of 

 argument, the justice of plea made, are the results in an}^ way 

 materially affected or altered ? Most emphatically not, as will 

 be made manifest by an examination of the accompanying tables, 

 where the original and new (or reduced) data are placed immedi- 

 ately under each other : — 



Of 26 Nearctic families (land and marine) 19 are also Palajarctic 



^74 per cent. 

 Of 23 Nearctic families (land onl}-) 16 are also Palrearctic = 



*I0 per cent. 

 Of 74 Nearctic genera (land and marine) 35 are also Palaearctic 



= 47 per cent. 

 Of 62 Nearctic genera (land onl^') 26 are also Palaearctic = 



42 per cent. 

 Of 74 Nearctic genera (land and marine) 26 are peculiar = 



35 per cent. 

 Of 62 Nearctic genera (land only) 23 are peculiar = 37 percent. 



The 26 peculiar Nearctic genera (land and marine) comprise 

 60 species, or 21 per cent, of the entire number (279) of species. 



The 23 peculiar Nearctic genera (land only) comprise 57 species, 

 or 21 per cent, of the entire number (267) of land species. 



It will thus be seen that the greatest variation in any place is 

 only five per cent. If, as has been done in my paper, we unite 

 the Nearctic and Palaearctic regions, we will then have, as 

 claimed : — 



86 peculiar genera (land and marine) out of a total of 139 = 62 



per cent. ;- or, deducting the marine forms — 

 74 peculiar genera out of a total of 127 land forms = 58 per 



cent. 

 And if we consider the specific forms represented b}- these 

 peculiar genera, we have — 



284 out of a total of 675 (land and marine) ^ 42 per cent. ; or, 



deducting the marine forms — 

 264 out of a total of 655 land forms = 40 per cent. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 2t» 



Here ngain, therefore, the variation is reduced to an insignifi- 

 cant amount — to 4 and 2 per cent. 



It has been further objected, that " a more logical classification 

 of mammals " than that which has been followed in my paper, 

 would reveal facts materially contravening my tabular statements, 

 but Prof Gill fails to inform us what this " more logical classi- 

 fication " may be, and it therefore becomes impossible to theorize 

 on his premises,! The distinguished naturalist of Washington is, 

 however, certainly in error when he maintains that the Arctamer- 

 ican fauna has 4 (instead of 2 — Hax>Joodontidse and Zapodidse — 

 or at the utmost, including the not generallj^ recognized Antilo- 

 capridse, 3) peculiar families ; nor can we understand from his 

 data how, if 29 Eurasiatic genera are represented in Arctamerica, 

 only 23 Arctamerican genera are developed in Eurasia. 



From what has alread}' been said it will be seen that there is 

 nothing in either Mr. Wallace's or Prof. GilFs arguments which 

 might tend towards altering ray views on the question at issue ; 

 and I must therefore still maintain, in the face of the evidence 

 before us, that, in m}^ judgment, there is not even the shadow of 

 a peg upon which to hang the Nearctic (as distinct from the 

 Palaearctie) region of zoogeogi-aphers. 



' There can be no doubt that certain emendations to the classification 

 followed might have been advantageously made ; as, for example, by the 

 introduction of the genus Cariams; but the very few alterations that 

 could have been suggested through the works of the most recent, and, as 

 usually recognized, most competent authorities on the subject of the 

 mammalia, would pioduce no really appreciable difiereuce in the result. 




27 6 proceedings of the academy of [1883, 



November 27. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy. in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



Note on Two New California Spiders and their Nests. — Rev. 

 Dr. McCooK presented a small collection of spiders received from 

 Mr. W. G. Wright, San Bernardino, Cal., mailed November 18. 

 One of these came within a nest, and is a Saltigrade spider, 

 probabl}^ an Attus. The nest is a rare one, and was so happily 

 placed, by the bnilder, on a branch of sagebrush {Ephedra 

 antisi/phillit ica\ that it was preserved intact. It is the only one 

 whicii Mr. Wright had seen in site. Another nest, which he 

 had no doubt was the same, he had observed torn from its place 

 bj^ some bird, as material for the construction of a bird's-nest. 



Nests somewhat similar are habitually made by Pennsylvania 

 Saltigrades upon or among leaves which shrink up as they die 

 and itear the spinning work so as to destroy the specimen. The 

 one exhibited was in perfect condition. It is the tent and egg-nest 

 of the species which was alive within it, and the speaker thought 

 to be new. It is a large example, five-eighths inch in body-length, 

 stout, the legs of moderate thickness, the whole animal covered 

 closely with grayish white hairs, the skin beneath being black. 

 Dr. McCook named the species, provisionally, Attus opifex, with 

 a double reference to the discoverer (Mr. Wright) and the admir- 

 able housewright qualities of the aranead herself. The nest is 

 externally an egg-shaped mass of white spinning-work, three 

 inches long b}- two and one-half inches wide. The outer part con- 

 sists of a mass of fine silken lines crossing in all directions and 

 lashed to the twigs within which it is enclosed. This maze sur- 

 rounds a sac or cell of thickl^^-woven sheeted silk, irregularlj- 

 oval in shape, two inches long by one inch wide, and also attached 

 to the surrounding twigs. At the bottom this cell or tent is 

 piei'ced b}- a circular opening which serves the spider as the door 

 of her domicile. It is the habit of her genus to live and hibernate 

 w^ithin such a silken nest. Against one side of the tent within 

 is spun a lenticular cocoon (double convex) of thick white silk, 

 within which the eggs were placed. The young spiders when 

 received had escaped from the cocoon, and occupied the package- 

 box. They are about one-eighth inch long, resembling the mother, 

 but less heavily coated with gray. 



This collection also contained three specimens (9) of the 

 genus Pucetia, as defined by Thorell.^ This genus belongs to 



^ See "On European Spiders, Novae Acta Reg. Soci. Sci. Upsalensis," 

 vol. vii, ser. 3d, p. 196. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



the family' Ox3'opoi(lse of the Citigrade spiders, to which it is 

 doubtless properly relegated in spite of certain analogies with 

 the Attoidje (Saltigrades) on the one hand, and the Philodrominse 

 (Laterigrades) on the other. Mr. Wright calls them "jumping 

 spiders." Hentz, who describes several species of 0.ryope.<, sajs 

 that O. salticKs leaps with more force and vivacit}' than an 

 Attus.^ Of 0. viridans he thinks it possible that the mother 

 carries its .young like Lycosa. This famil}' of spiders is arboreal 

 in habit, is found on plants, with their legs extended, thus dis- 

 guising themselves after the manner known as " mimicry," and 

 springing upon their pre^'. The cocoon is usually conical, sur- 

 rounded with points, placed in a tent made between leaves drawn 

 together and lashed, and is sometimes of a pale greenish color. 

 0. viridana will make a cocoon suspended mid-air by threads 

 attached to the external prominences, which she will watch 

 constantly from a neighboring site. Dr. McCook believed the 

 species presented to be new ; tlie body-length is fourteen milli- 

 metres ; legs long, tapering, many long spines. The body is 

 3'ellow and pale yellow; the cephalothorax striped longitudinally 

 with bright red streaks; the abdomen marked above with red 

 bell-shaped and angular patterns, and beneath by red streaks ; 

 the sternum red, the legs yellow with red rings at the joints. The 

 species was named Fiicctia aurora, because of the bright red 

 streaks upon the j'ellow background, suggesting " the daughter 

 of the dawn." 



According to some field-notes forwarded hy Mr. Wright since 

 the above was in print, Pucetia aurora is rather abundant in a 

 limited locality. The nests are uniformly upon bushes of Erio- 

 gonum coryvihosum, and several specimens of them were sent. 

 The nest is hung from three to four feet from the ground, and, 

 being upon the topmost twigs, is easily seen from a distance. 

 The cocoon is a straw-colored sphere or ovoid, five-eighths of an 

 inch in diameter. It is covered externall}- with various pointed 

 rugosities, from which numerous lines extend to the adjoining 

 foliage, and into the maze of right lines which extends below the 

 corymb of the plant upon which all the specimens sent are 

 attached. This retitelarian snare doubtless serves as a tem- 

 porary home for the young spiders. The cocoon has no suture, 

 the spiderlings escaping by cutting the case, which is thick and 

 closely woven. Xo floss padding was found inside of the case. 



Upon approaching " the nest, the mother is usually seen 

 hovering over the j'oung spiders, or guarding a new sack of 

 eggs. She lays two, and sometimes three broods on one twig. 

 Sometimes the young ones will be still in the old nest, while the 

 mother is guarding a new bundle of eggs immediately adjoining 

 the old one. In no case were any 3'oung ones seen on the 

 mother's back. The mother stag's close by her nest. If the 



' " Spiders of the United States," p. 48. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



spiclerliiigs be hatched, she will, perhaps, drop down a foot or so, 

 if a first effort to capture her be not successful ; but will not drop 

 to the ground, unless forced to do so. If guarding her eggs, she 

 must be forcibly- separated from the cocoon. The 3'oung ones 

 take alarm sooner than their mother ; the^^ drop down a few 

 inches — or, at times, two feet — every one on its tiny thread, 

 forming a pretty, swaying fringe. In a few moments, if all is 

 still, they climb up again ; but if frightened, will drop to the 

 gi'ound, and run. The little onesin such case do not jump. 



It is a further interesting fact in so-called " mimicry " that of 

 several examples of P. aurora seeu by Mr. Wright, one found on 

 a green bush Avas in'color almost wholly green, with scarcely a 

 trace of red ; while two found on a hoary-white bush had simu- 

 lated the white color of their habitat. The specimens, as described 

 above by Dr. McCook, ai)proach in coloration the prevailing 

 hue of the Eriogonum on which they were nested, and he was 

 inclined to think that this is the normal color of the adult, which 

 is taken on as the animal matures; indeed, as the green and 

 whitish specimens were not sent to him, he would be inclined to 

 think (awaiting further evidence) that those colors may have 

 been due to immature age. At least, the tendency to such colors 

 is strong in joung spiders. However, the fact of mimicry is not 

 improV)able, as Dr. McCook had observed it in our native 

 Laterigrades. 



From the same gentleman and locality, Dr. McCook had 

 received a ? specimen of Argiope fasciata^ which is thus located 

 upon the Pacific Coast, giving this beautiful and interesting 

 spider a continental distribution. 



A Web-Spinnivg Neuropterous Insect. — Dr. Henry C. McCook 

 announced that a small neuropterous insect, Fsocus sexpunctatiis, 

 had been recently found on the Wissahickon Creek, Fairmount 

 Park, Philadelphia, by Mr. S. F. Aaron, of this Academy. This 

 is the first time, so far as the speaker was aware, that this insect 

 has been found in the United States, or indeed North America. 

 Mr. Aaron took the insects home in the paper boxes in which he 

 had collected them, and thus observed the fact which has hereto- 

 fore been noted of the European species, that they spin webs. 

 McLachlan ^ expresses the belief that both sexes possess the 

 power of spinning a web, which, he affirms, is not distinguish- 

 able from that made by spiders. If a number of living speci- 

 mens be enclosed in a pill-box, it will be found that at the 

 end of a few hours the interior is traA-ersed in all directions by 

 numerous lines of web. Mr. McLachlan further states that the 

 eggs, which are laid in clusters, are also protected with a web by 

 the female. These insects are very common in England, where 



1 Monograph of the Brit. Psocidae, Entom. Moutlily Magz., vol. iii, 

 1866-67, p. 228. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



they are found more or less in societies, on tree-trunks, palings, 

 amongst the herbage of trees, and even in houses. Mr. Aaron dis- 

 covered them in similar habitat here, that is to say on the trunks 

 of trees. A congener of the above species, Paocit^i p«rw,s- Walsh, 

 which is also found in the vicinity', makes a tubular or tent-like 

 web in the furrows of bark and crevices of trees, in texture some- 

 thing like that spun by certain tube-weaving (Tubitelariae) spiders 

 and other species ; or, perhaps more nearly like the covering 

 woven over tiiemselves by certain Lepidopterous larvae. The 

 insect lives under this tent pi-ecisely as do the spiders referred to. 

 One who would capture them must push them out b}' pressing 

 upon the tent. 



It is a matter of such rare interest to find a true insect in the 

 imago state spinning a web, and apparently for its protection, 

 that Dr. McCook thought the discovery in our locality of such 

 an insect worthy of this record. The spinning function among 

 true insects, he believed, with the single exception of the Psocidte, 

 is confined to the larval state ; spiders (it is scarcely necessary to 

 state) not being true insects, but belonging to the Arachnida. 

 The speaker further thought that this larval characteristic of 

 web-spinning might be correlated with the rank which zoologists 

 usually assign the Neuroptera as lowest among the orders of the 

 insects, its larva-like body being one indication of its low position 

 in its class. However, it is a striking example of the diverging and 

 independent lines along which life-forms have sprung up in nature, 

 that a function which belongs to the larval stage of insects, and 

 which appears in the imago state onl}' in the lowest tj^pe of the 

 same, should appear as the most permanent and characteristic 

 function of the spider — an animal which, although it is now 

 commonly given a lower place in the same subkingdom with the 

 insects (Arthropoda), is certainl}- very different'y and little less 

 highly organized. It would be a difficult task. Dr. McCook 

 thought, to trace or even imagine any evolutionarj' connection, 

 whether of progression or retrogression, between the web-spinning 

 spider, the web-spinning insect-larva, and the web-spinning neu- 

 ropterous imago Fsocus i>expunctati.i>i. There is, indeed, this 

 common factor, the spinning function, but the phj^siologist fails 

 to perceive any use or combination of the same which can unite 

 the organisms in which it inheres. 



Art. YI, Chap. X, of the By-Laws was amended by striking out 

 from the first line the word " onl}'," and from the second and 

 third lines the words " obtain permission to," so that the article 

 now reads: ''Members and Correspondents of the Academy shall 

 have free access to the library. Other persons may consult it at 

 any time through the introduction of a member, or upon applica 

 tion to the librarian, while such member or librarian is present 




280 PROCEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



but minors under sixteen 3'ears of age shall not be permitted to 

 examine an}^ work, except under the immediate supervision of 

 the librarian or of a member." 



Art. YII, Chap. XI, was amended by striking out all after the 

 word " public," in the second line, and inserting in lieu thereof, 

 " daily, except Sunday, and at least one day in the week without 

 charge on such conditions and under siicli regulations as the Council 

 shall establish from time to time," so that the article now reads : 

 " The Museum of the Academy shall be open to the public daily, 

 except Sunda)', and at least one day in the week without charge, 

 on such conditions and under such regulations as the Council 

 shall from time to time establish." 



The following were elected members : George L. Knowles, 

 Ferdinand McCann, Lewis E. Levy, J. Alexander Savage, and 

 Mrs. Wm. E. EUicott. 



The following were elected correspondents : E. Marie, of Paris, 

 Marchese di Monterosato, of Palermo, and H. J. Carter, of 

 Budleigh-Satterton, Devonshire, England. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1883. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



NOTES ON AMERICAN FISHES PRESERVED IN THE MUSEUMS AT BERLIN, 

 LONDON, PAR^p AND COPENHAGEN. 



BY DAVID S. JORDAN. 



In a recent visit to Europe, the writer had the privilege of 

 examining numerous typical specimens of. American fishes, 

 preserved in the British Museum, in the Museum d'Histoire 

 Naturelle in Paris, and in the Museums of the Universities of 

 Berlin and Copenhagen. In the present paper are given selec- 

 tions from the notes taken on these specimens, which have a 

 bearing on the nomenclature of our fishes. 



I have to express my personal obligations to Dr. G. A. Boulenger, 

 of the British Museum; to Dr. Bocourt and M. Thominot, of the 

 Museum at Paris ; to Dr. F. Hilgendorf, of the University of Berlin, 

 and to Dr. Christian F. Llitken, of the University of Copenhagen, 

 for man}' favors in connection with our studies of these spec- 

 imens. 



1. Alius assimilis fiiintber. 



(Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., v, 146.) 



Type, Lake Yzabal, Atlantic slope, Central America. 



Area between the eyes smooth, extending backward in the 

 form of a rather narrow triangle which is moderately obtuse 

 behind. Fontanelle narrow and short, ending far in front of the 

 occipital process, not extending backward as a groove behind the 

 smooth area of the top of the head ; posterior end of fontanelle 

 midwaj- between tip of snout and middle of ante-dorsal shield. 

 Occipital process broad, its edges not straight. Band of palatine 

 teeth large, but not produced backward on the inner margin. 



The character of the fontanelle in this species is not described 

 b}- Dr. Giinther. We have elsewhere identified with A. assiniilis 

 (Bull. U. S. Fish. Comm., 1882, 47), a number of specimens from 

 Mazatlan (28161, 28189, 28210, 28213, 28221, 28232, 28276 and 

 28304, U. S. Nat. Mus.), belonging to a species ver}- different 

 from the true A. assimilis, although agreeing fairly' with Dr. 

 Giinther's description. 



There is no evidence of the occurrence of the true A. assimilis 

 in Pacific waters. 



19 




282 -PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 1883.] 



2. Arins caerulescens GUnther. 



(Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., v, 149.) 



T3pes from Huamuchal, Pacific slope. 



Head more depressed than in A, assimilis. Fontanelle very 

 short, ending abruptly behind and not jDroduced in a groove 

 behind the smooth area of the top of the head, the boundary of 

 the smooth area being rather broadly convex. Occipital process 

 broader than long, its edges nearly straight. Bands of palatine 

 teeth small, not produced backward on the inner margin. Paired 

 fins black at base above. This species is allied to A. guatemal- 

 ensis, but is apparently distinct. It is well separated from A. 

 assimilis. 



■''. Arius seemanni GUnther. 



(Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., v, 147.) 



{? Arius assimilis, Jor. & Gilb., Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1882, 47.) 



T^'pe from Central America, the exact locality unknown. 



Fontanelle extending backward in a deep and narrow groove, 

 which reaches the occipital process. Middle of top of head 

 smooth, much as in A. platypogon. 



It is probable that this specimen belongs to the species hereto- 

 fore erroneously called by us Arius assimilis. We have had some 

 hesitation in making this identification, because in none of our 

 Mazatlan specimens does the fontanelle reach the occipital pro- 

 cess, and it is not certain that the tjpe of A. seemanni came 

 from the Pacific coast. Still, the probability is so strongly in 

 favor of identit}^ that, in absence of further evidence, we shall 

 consider them the same. 



4. Myrophis punctatus LUken. 



(Videusk. Meddel. Nat. Foren., Kjob, l^ol, 1 .^ 



Type, West Indies ; Suenson Coll. 



Beginning of dorsal midway between gill-opening and vent. 

 Head 2f in trunk. Cleft of mouth about 3^ in head. This is 

 apparentlj' identical with M. microsligmius Poej' (Rep. Fis. Nat., 

 ii, 50). The description of M. punctatus Gthr. (viii, 51 ) is taken 

 from the Panama species, M. vafer Jor. & Gilb. It is bareh^ 

 possible that M. lumbricus Jor. & Gilb. will prove to be the 

 young of M. punctatus. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



5. Ezocoet'US mfipinnis Cmier & Valecciennes. 

 (Hist. Nat., Poiss., xix, 99.) 



T3'pe from Pa^'ta, Peru; an adult specimen, in good condition. 



Head 4t in length to base of caudal ; depth 5§ ; lower lobe of 

 caudal 3^; eye 3 J in head. Yentrals 3 J in bod}-. D. 11; A. 

 1, 11. Insertion of anal scarcely behind that of dorsal, its base 

 but little shorter ; both fins low, the longest ray of dorsal little 

 more than half the base of the fin. Pectorals reaching base of 

 caudal; centrals to just behind last ray of anal. Third ray of 

 pectoral branched, the fourth longest. Pectorals and ventrals 

 centrall}' dusk3', without distinct markings. 



This species is probabh' Identical with E. doxoi Gill (Proc. 

 Ac. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1863, 167), from Panama, a species not now 

 represented in the National Museum. 



6. Tylosurus Mans (Cuv. & Val ) Jor. <fe '^ilb. 



{Belone Mans Cuv. & Val., xviii, 433.) 

 In the Upe of this species the insertion of the ventrals is 

 about midwa}' between the base of the caudal and the middle of 

 the arch of the base of the upper jaw, or slightly nearer tip of 

 pectoral than front of anal. According to Valenciennes, '■ elle 

 est attache un pen avant le milieu cle la longueur totale." This 

 statement is not quite correct. On account of this discrepancy'. 

 Poey has described the Cuban fish as distinct, under the name of 

 Belone maculata (Mem. Cuba, ii, 290), the ventral fin being 

 inserted behind the middle of the length of the bod3-. It is not 

 likeh' that any real diflference exists. The specimens found along 

 our Atlantic coast agree very well with Poej-'s description. 



7. Querimana harengus (Gunther) Jor. & Gilb. 



{Myxus harengus Giiuther, iii, 467.) 

 The tj\)Q?, of Myxus harengus have but two anal spines, instead 

 of three, as stated in the original description. Specimens of this 

 species from Zorritas, Peru, are in the museum of Yale Colleo-e. 

 In the National Museum are specimens from Panama, Mazatlan, 

 and Charleston, S. C. 



8. Qaerimana ciliilabis (Cuv. & Val.) -Jor. 



{Mvgl ciliilabis, C. & V. xi, 151.) 



The types of JIugil ciliilabis, from Lima, belong also to the 



genus Querimana. The species is very close to Q. harengus. 



differing in rather stronger dentition, stiffened cilia, or teeth beiuo- 



present in both jaws, rather strongest in the upper. Head 3i in 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



length, depth 4^; no adipose eA-elid : preovhital serrate; anal 

 spines 2; first soft ray of anal simple, but evidently articulate. 

 9. Stromatens medius Peters. 



(Berliner Monatsber., 1869, 707.) 



Type, No. 1073, Berlin Museum, from Mazatlan. In the orig 

 inal description of this species the lateral line is said to be 

 "keeled" on the caudal peduncle. This "keel" is simplj^ the 

 ordinary- tubing of the lateral line, which is preciselj" as in the 

 ordinary species of titrovxateus. 



Head 3^ in length, depth 1^^^; pectoral 2f in body; dorsal 

 lobe 4^ ; caudal 2|. Dorsal with 42 developed raA'S ; anal with 

 32. Length 7^^ inches, fins distinctly punctulate. 

 in. Caranx leucurus (iUNthe-*. 



(Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1864, 24.) 



Tjpes, two 3'oung examples. In our Review of the Caranginje 

 (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 194) ^ we have placed this species 

 in the group called Uraspis, among the species with broad 

 maxillaries. It should be removed to the group called Hemi- 

 caj^anx, among the species with narrow maxillaries, its relations 

 being with C. atrimaniis and G. Qmhhjrhyiichus. 



Maxillar}- quite narrow, its length 2| in head, reaching pupil; 

 e^^e not large. Dorsal and anal fins nnusuallv high, but the 

 anterior rays not exserted beyond the rest ; middle raj's of dorsal 

 i to 3 length of head (probably shorter in the adult) ; sheath at 

 base of dorsal little developed ; caudal fin not deeply forked ; 

 pectoral short, 1^ in head (j'oiing) ; curve of lateral line \\ in 

 straight part, its length 3J times its depth. Teeth slender, rather 

 long, uniserial above and nearly so below. 



^ In the paper above quoted (p. 194) we have placed Caranx ruber in the 

 group with the anterior rays of soft dorsal and anal not falcate. In speci- 

 mens from Guiana examined by us, these rays, although \eTj low, are still, 

 properly speaking, falcate, the longest being about 2|^in bead. The species 

 should therefore be removed from the subgenus Uraspi$ to that of Caranx, 



On page 197 in the same paper, Caranx fasciaius, Cuv. & Val. (ix, p. 

 70), described from a drawing made in Mexico, may be added as an 

 extremely doubtful synonym of Caranx vinetus. 



Caranx ciihensis (Pojy) should doubtless be recognized as a distinct 

 species. 



On pages 206 and 20^ the name CTdoroscombrus stirurus occnrs. Thia is 

 a lap^vs for Chlor. orquetaAhe former having been a MSS. name for which 

 the latter was substituted before the publication of the original description. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Body evei\ywhere finel}- punctulate, with rather sharply defined 

 dark bars. Caudal fin pale. 



11. Epineplieius ga'.eus (Mailer & Trosdiel) Jordan. 



{Serraiiiis galeus Miill & Troscli., Schomb. Reise, Brit. Guiuna, 

 621.) 



The types of Serranas galeus belong apparently to the species 

 described as Ser7'anus itaiara Cuv. & Yal. and Vaillant & 

 Bocourt, and as Serranus quinquefasciatus Bocourt. According 

 to Yaillant & Bocourt (Miss. Sci. au Mexiqne , the species found 

 on the Pacific Coast of Mexico {quinquefai^ciatus) is identical 

 with the Brazilian species {itaiara C. & Y.). The* original 

 Serranua itaiara of Lichtenstein is, however, apparently a very 

 different species, having the anal rays III, 11. Assuming the 

 identity of the Atlantic and Pacific species, which I have, at 

 present, no reason to doubt, the oldest tenable specific name for 

 this species seems to be galeus. 



12. Lutjanus argentiventris (Ft tors) Jordan <i (Jilbert. 



(Mesoprion argenticentris Peters, Cerliner Monatsber., 1869, 707.) 

 Type, No. tOtO, Berl. Mus., from Mazatlan. This specimen 

 belongs to the species diagnosed by us under the name of 

 '•'■ Lutjanus argentivitlatus^^ (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881), the 

 Pacific representative of Lutjanus caxis. The name '• argen- 

 tivittatus " is a slip of the pen on our part for " argenticentris.''^ 



13. Lutjanus inermis (Peter ) Jor.'.an & UiUiert. 



{Mesoprion inermis Peters, Berliner Monatsber., 18o9.) 



Type, 7069, Berlin Mus., said to have been brought from Ma- 

 zatlan ; 8^ inches in length, in good condition. 



This specimen belongs to a species allied to L. chrysurus^ and 

 distinct from all those j-et known from the Pacific Coast of 

 Tropical America. The following is a detailed description : — 



Head 3 in length; depth 3|. Lateral line with 50 tubes; 

 scales 53. Dorsal X-13; A. III-ll. 



Bod}^ slender and fusiform, not strongly compressed, the back 

 not elevated. Snout very pointed ; mouth unusually small, 

 the maxillary 2^ in head, reaching to front of pupil. Eye very 

 large, about 4 in head. Band of vomerine teeth slight!}- pro- 

 duced backward on the median line. Teeth on tongue well 

 developed ; canine teeth unusuall}- small and slender, 2 in upper 

 jaw and 3 or i on each side of lower. Nostrils well separated, 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



subequal, the posterior oblong, the anterior round. Preorbital 

 I depth of eye. Preopercle not serrate, seai'cely notched behind. 

 Temporal region with a band of large scales, on each side of 

 which are small scales. Scales aboA^e lateral line arranged in 

 very oblique series which are not parallel with the lateral line. 



Pectoral fins ver^^ short, reaching little past tips of ventrals, 

 1| in head. Dorsal spines very slender. Second anal spine 

 longer than third, ver^' small, 7 in head. Soft dorsal and anal 

 low, scaly. Caudal fin rather deeply forked, the middle rays not 

 half the length of the outer, which are 1^ in head. 



Color in spirits, dusky above, pale below, with distinct dark 

 stripes, those below pai'allel with the lateral line, those above 

 verj'^ oblique ; these stripes extend along the edges of the rows 

 of scales, the middle of each scale being w^Jitish, its base dusky. 



According to Peters, the color was " violet-brown ; middle of 

 each scale with a silver}^ shining spot ; belly silvery." 



14. Lutjanus vivanus (CuvierA Valenciennes) Jordan & Gilbert. 



(Afesoprion vivanus Cuv. & Val., ii, 454 ) 



Types, 5'oung specimens in good condition, collected b}^ Plee 

 at Martinique. 



This species is briefly and unrecognizabl}- described b}' Cuvier 

 & Yalenciennes. The' following is an outline of its characters, 

 from which its close resemblance to the young of the common 

 "Red Snapper" of Florida {Lutjanus hlackfordi Goode & 

 Bean = L. campechianus Poej-) is evident. 



Head 2f in length; depth 3^. D.X-14; A. III-8. Lateral 

 line with 50 pores. 



Maxillarj' 2| in head ; teeth rather strong ; vomerine teeth in 

 an arrow-shaped patch, being prolonged considerably backward 

 on the median line. Posterior nostrils oval ; eye 4 in head ; 

 Nuchal scales in a band, scarcel}^ separated from the scales of the 

 body ; scales above lateral line arranged in oblique series ; second 

 anal spine long, 2^ in head ; caudal concave, the inner lobe If in 

 the outer. 



Color reddish, faintly streaked with olive ; traces of a blackish 

 blotch under soft dorsal ; tips of middle raj^s of caudal dusk}'. 



15. Pomadasys modestns (Tschudl) Jordan. 



{Hamulon modestum Tschudl, Fauna Peruana, Ichthyol., ii.) 

 {Pristipoma notatiim Feters, Berliner Monatsber., 1869.) 

 The type of Pristipoma notatum Peters (No. 7061, Berl. Mus.: 

 " gekauft, angeblich von Mazatlan ") is identical with specimens 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 287 



in the same museum, which have been identified, apparently 

 correctly, as Hsemulon modestum Tsehudi. This identity has 

 been alreadj' noticed by Dr. Hilgendorf (MSS.). Tschudi's 

 original t3-pe is said to be in the museum at Xeufchatel. 



It is doubtful whether the specimen examined b}' Prof. Peters 

 really came from Mazatlan. 



The following is a redescriptiou of the type of Prislipoma 

 notaturn : 



Head 3^ in length to base of caudal; depth 2|. D. XII-15 (not 

 XVIII, as stated by Peters' ; A. III-l 2 ; 51 or 52 scales in a longi- 

 tudinal series ; 10 rows between front of dorsal and lateral line. 



An ally of Pomadasys csesius. Bod}' ovate ; anterior profile 

 regularlj' convex ; mouth small ; outer teeth in both jaws enlarged ; 

 maxillary 3| in head ; lips thick; eye 3| in head ; preorbital If 

 in eye ; preopercle coarsely serrate ; scales above lateral line unu- 

 suallj" small, arranged in oblique series, not parallel with the 

 lateral line. 



Pectoral fin as long as head ; second anal spine much stronger 

 than third, and somewhat longer, both much shorter than the 

 soft rays; second anal spine If in head ; dorsal spines low and not 

 strong, the fin deeply notched ; fourth dorsal spine 2^ in head ; 

 soft dorsal scaly at base ; upper lobe of caudal longest. 



Color bluish gra^-, silver^' below; edge of opercle black; a con- 

 spicuous jet-black spot at base of last rays of anal and dorsal ; 

 entire axil of pectoral, and a large roundish blotch before it, jet- 

 black ; Aentrals blackish. 



16. Diabasis sexfasciatus (Gill) Jor. & Gilb. 



As alread}^ supposed by us, the t3'pe of Hsemulon maculosum 

 Peters is identical with Hsemulon sexfasciatum Gill. 



17. Paralonclittras petersi Bocourt. 



Tj-pe, La Union, San Salvador. 



Only the original type of this species is yet known. It is 

 apparently closely related to the genus Lonchurus, diff'ering exter- 

 nally in the presence of several bai'bels instead of two. 



Body long and low, formed as in Ilenticirrus. Head slender, 

 low, with protuberant snout, flattish and somewhat spongj^ to 

 the touch above. Preopercle with dermal serrations ; mouth 

 horizontal, overlapped by the snout ; teeth in villiform bands ; 

 upper jaw with a conspicuous outer row of larger teeth ; gill-rakers 




288 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



very small, short and slender, not numerous ; chin with five pores ; 

 rami of mandible each with a I'ow of slender, inconspicuous 

 barbels along the inner edge ; nostrils round. 



Scales rather large, smooth to the touch, apparently truly 

 cycloid. 



Head 3j in length ; depth 4 ; eye very small, 8^ in head ; inter- 

 orbital space 3^ ; maxillary 2f ; dorsal rays XI-30 ; dorsal fin 

 low, the soft dorsal highest posteriorly and scaled at base onl}'^ ; 

 anal small, ending under middle of soft dorsal, its second spine 

 as long as snout, 3§ in head; pectoral very long, 2i in body; 

 caudal lanceolate, unequal, its length 3^ in body. 



Color in spirits, light olive, with faint streaks along the rows 

 of scales ; no cross-bands ; pectorals dusky ; other fins plain. 



18. Polycirrhus dumerili Bocourt. 



Type, La Union. 



This species seems to be identical with Ge.nyanemus fasciatus 

 Steindachner (Ichth. Beitr., ii, 31, 1875). The name given by 

 Bocourt has precedence. The genus Polycirrhus is perhaps 

 worthy of distinction from Genyanemus, having the dorsal spines 

 in normal number ( 10 instead of 14), the mouth subinferior instead 

 of terminal, the caudal double truncate instead of emarginate, and 

 the gill-rakers very small. Genyanemus per nanus Steind. (1. c, 29) 

 and G. brasilianus Steind. (1. c, M =^ Micropogon ornatus Gthr.) 

 apparently belong to Polycirrhus. 



19. Menticirras sazatilis (Bloch & Sehneiiler) Jordan. 



{JoJmius saxntilis Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth , 1801, p. 75.) 

 {Scmna nebulosa Mitch., Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc, 1815, 408.) 



The t3'pe of Johnius saxatilis Bloch & Schneider, from New 

 York, is still preserved in the museum at Berlin. It is appar- 

 ently identical with the common king-fish, Menticirrus nebulosus 

 (Mitchill) Gill, which species should therefore stand as Menti- 

 cirrus saxatilis. The common names of this species, of the 

 weak fish and the striped bass, have evidently been confused by 

 Schneider. 



Johnius carutta, the species taken by Professor Gill as the t3q)e 

 of the genus Johnius, has the preopercle entire, and the mouth 

 inferior. Johnius is apparentl}'^ not distinguishable from the sub- 

 genus Gorvina, as defined by Jordan & Gilbert (Synopsis Fish. 

 N. A., 1883, p. 932). 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



20. Menticirrus nasus (Giiather) Jor. & Gill. 



( Umhrina nasus Giinther, Fishes Centr. Amer., 1869, 426.) 



Type, about a foot in length, adult. 



D. X-I, 22 ; e^e proportionately ver}^ large, 4^ in head ; max- 

 illary reaching to below posterior edge of pupil; snout 3i in 

 head; longest dorsal spine 1| in head, reaching to third ray of 

 second dorsal ; pectoral 1^ in head ; ventrals short. 



Gill-rakers ver}^ short, almost obsolete ; posterior nostril large, 

 oval ; anterior round ; interorbital width 41 in head ; scales of 

 breast large. 



Color pale, the pectoral dusky. 



21. Isopisthus brevipinnis (Cuv. & Val.) Gill. 



{Ancylodon brevipinnis C. & V., v, 84. ) 

 The tj'pe of this species (Caj^enne, Poiteau ; in bad condition) 

 has the pectoral fin If in head, as in /. affinis Steindachner f Xeue 

 und seltene Fische aus den K. K. Zool. Museum zu Wien, etc., 

 43), differing in that respect from the Panama species, Isopisthus 

 remifer. There is not much doubt of the identity of /. affinis 

 with /. brevipinnis. 



22. Gerres pemvianus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



(Cuvier & Valenciennes, vi, 467.) 

 The type of this species is apparently identical with the 

 common West Coast species called by this name bj- Jordan & 

 Gilbert (Bull. IJ. S. Fish Com., 1881, 330), and later by Evermann 

 & Meek (Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 123). The types of 

 Gerres gula C. & V. also correspond with the species so named 

 by the above writers. One of them (Brazil, Delalande) has the 

 head 3 in length, the depth 2| ; longest dorsal spine If in head ; 

 second anal spine 3^ ; eye 2| ; tip of spinous dorsal dusky. The 

 t3'pes of Gerres aprion C. & Y. seem to correspond with the 

 species called b^' us Gerres cinereus (Walbaumj (= Gerres zebra 

 and Gerres squamipinnis Gthr.). They are, howcA^er, in bad 

 condition, the color faded and the scales mostlj' rubbed off. 



23. Gerres brasilianus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



(Cuvier & Valenciennes, vi, 45^.) 



The type of this species is in very bad condition, unfit for 



detailed description. Sides apparently with dark stripes along 



the rows of scales. Preorbital and preopercle- serrate. Frontal 



groove broad, naked. Longest dorsal spine 5 in bod}^ Second 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



anal spine 5:^. Anal spines 3 in number. Candal fin long. 

 This species is allied to G. plumieri. but tlie back is less elevated 

 and the spines smaller than in the latter. Gerres rhomheus 

 C. & V. is a very different species, closely allied to Gerres 

 penxvianus, but with two anal spines onl3^ It occurs on both 

 sides of the Isthmus of Panama. 



24. Gerres brevimanus Giinther. 



(Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., l!:64, 152.) 



This species is distinct from G. lineatus (Humboldt), although 

 closeh' allied to it. Only the original type is yet known. On 

 this I have the following notes : — 



Head 3| in length ; depth 2^ ; eye 3^ in head. Coloration of 

 Gerres lineatus. Back much lower than in the latter, and pectoral 

 fins ver}' much shorter; their length 1^ in head ; their tips not 

 reaching nearly- to tips of ventrals, which are 1^ in head; caudal 

 3 in body. Preorbital very little serrate, almost entire, Preo- 

 percle weakly serrate. Second dorsal spine If in head ; second 

 anal spine 1|. Teeth small and short. No black on base of 

 pectoral, or on lower fins. Spinous dorsal dusky above. Frontal 

 groove broad and naked, as in G. lineatus. 



25. Opistho3;natlm9 punctata Peters. 



(Peters, Berl. Monatsber., 1869.) 



Type, *I064, Berl. Mus. ; about one foot long, from Mazatlan. 



Head ever^^where finely speckled with black, the bod}^ more 

 coarsely and irregularly spotted. Pectoral finely and closely 

 speckled, its edge plain. Ventral fin dusky,* similarly marked. 

 Dorsal without large black blotch, finel^^ spotted, the spots 

 behind gradually forming the boundaries of white ocelli, the base 

 of the fins having rings of white around black spots, the upper 

 part with dark rings around pale spots. Caudal with pale spots, 

 its edge, like that of the dorsal, somewhat dusky, not black. 

 Anal with a bro:id, blackish edge, and with dark spots, those near 

 the base of the fin largest. Lining membrane of maxillarj' with 

 the usual bands of white and inky black. 



Scales ver3' small, about 125 in lateral line. Dorsal spines 

 continuous with the soft rays. D. 28; A. 18. No vomerine 

 teeth. Maxillarj^ ver}' long? extending slightlj- bej'ond head. 



Only the tj'pe of this species is j^et known. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



26. Porichtliys porosissimas (Guv. & Val.) Gthr. 



{? BatracJius porosissimus Cuv. & Val., xii, 501.) 

 {Porichtliys pkctrodon Jor. & Gilb., Proc. U. S. Nat. iNIus., 1882, 

 291.) 



The two specimens from South America referred, b}' Dr. 

 Giinther (Cat. Fishes, iii, 176) to Porichtliys iwroHissirnvs, have 

 the enlarged palatine teeth characteristic of P. j^lectrodon Jor. & 

 Gilb. The specimen from Yancouver Island mentioned by Dr. 

 Giinther, has small palatine teeth as have all Pacific specimens 

 examined by us. A young specimen from Panama also belongs 

 to P. margaritatus. It is probable that the types of Batrachus 

 porosissimus C. & Y., from Guiana and Brazil, really have the 

 palatine teeth enlarged, although Cuvier & Yalenciennes say 

 that " chaque palatin en a une rangie de petites, pointues et 

 inegales." In that case, the Atlantic species would stand as 

 Porichtliys porosissimus (C. & Y.) Gthr., and the Pacific species, 

 unquestionably distinct, although closely related, as P. maryain- 

 tatus {F\.[ch..) Jor. & Gilb. 



27. Sebastodes matzubarse (Hilgendorf) Jordan. 



The types of Perca variabilis Pallas (Zoogr. Rosso-Asiat., iii, 

 241 = Epinephelus ciliatus Tilesius), two in number, obtained in 

 the Aleutian Islands, are preserved in the Berlin Museum. 



The smaller of these specimens (6494) belongs to the species 

 for which we have retained the name of Sebastodes ciliatus 

 (Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 658). For this species 

 the name Sebastes variabilis has been retained in MSS. b}' Dr. 

 Hilgendorf. 



The larger specimen (8145) is a flat skin of large red species, 

 apparently identical with the Japanese species described by 

 Hilgendorf under the name of Sebastes matzubaree. This view 

 is also held by Hilgendorf. 



As Sebastodes matzubarae has not been hitherto recognized as 

 a North American species, we give the following outline of its 

 characters : — 



Allied to Sebastodes miniatus. Spines of head low, developed 

 about as in S. miniatus and S. pinniger. Preocular, supraocular, 

 postoeular, tympanic, occipital and niichal spines distinct ; a pair 

 of small coronal spines present, as also a small spine before and 

 one just below e3'e. Maxillar}' reaching to posterior border of 

 eye, 1| in head. Both jaws covered wuth rough, ctenoid scales. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Interorljital space flattish, scaled, its breadth a little less than 

 that of eye. Preopercular spines short, simple. Preorbital 

 spines simple. Lower jaw scarcely projecting. Second anal 

 spine scarcely longer than third. Longest dorsal spine 2f in 

 head, a little less than the longest short rays. Pectoral 4i in 

 bod3^ 



Color dnsky brown, apparently dark red in life; three dark 

 shades across cheeks. 



28. Scorpaena histrio Jenyns. 



(Chinclias Islands; Schmaltz; Brit. Mus.) 



This species is very closely allied to Scorpaena brasiliensin C. 

 & Y. It lacks the black spots which are usually distinct in the 

 latter. In S. hraHilienais the suborbital stay is more broken, and 

 the dorsal spines are perhaps a little lower. 



The following is a diagnosis of Be. histrio : — 



Head 2yL, depth 3^. D. XII-10. Pectoral S^V in body. Max- 

 illary 2 in head. Ej'C 4J in head. Longest dorsal spine 3 in 

 head. Second anal spine 3. Lateral line w'ith 30 scales. 



Head rough above. Nuchal pit quadrate, much broader than 

 long. Scales present on posterior part of cheek and on front and 

 flap of opercle. Scales on bod}' large, not ctenoid, edged with 

 dermal flaps. Eye large. Mouth large, the lower jaw included. 

 Suborbital stay conspicuous, not armed Avith spines. Second 

 anal spine stronger and I'ather longer than third. 



Color gray or red, with broad darker shades, four in number, 

 irregular and variable; fins similarly colored ; pectorals barred ; 

 dermal flaps white. 



29. Prionotus horrens Richardson. 



(Voyage Sulphur, Ichthyol., 79.) 



Types, Gulf of Fonseca; j-oung. Allied to Prionotua tribu- 

 lus C. & v., but the spines on the head still longer and more 

 knife-shaped. First spine on edge of snout broad and serrate; 

 behind this three similar ones progressively larger. Then two 

 large spines on preopercle, the posterior larger. Two smaller 

 spines on opercle, and one very large on the scapula. Two sharp 

 spines over each eye, one behind ; two on top of head and two 

 on occiput. No groove behind eye. Belt of palatine teeth nar- 

 row. Mouth large ; maxillarj^ reaching to below front of eye, 

 21 in head. Gill-rakers long and slender, 5 in number. Scales 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



small. Pectorals short, 3 iu bod}', reaching somewhat past front 

 of second dorsal. 



Pectorals and tip of caudal dusk3\ 



30. Agonas decagonus B och. 



This species has the gill membranes attached to the isthmus, 

 forming a narrow fold across it, much as in ^. catapJwactus, but 

 narrower. It is therefore erroneously referred by us to the genus 

 Brachyopsis (Syn. Fish. !N^. A., 955 ), and the generic name Lepta- 

 goniis Gill, based on A. decagonus, cannot be used instead of 

 Brachyopsis. A. decagonus is intermediate between Agonus 

 proper and Podotheciis, being referable to the latter, if the two 

 genera are kept separate. According to Dr. Liitken, neither 

 Agonus cataphractus nor Cottus huhalis have j'et been actually 

 found in Gi'eenland. They should, therefore, be omitted from 

 American faunal lists. 



31. Ophidium omostigma .Jordan & (iilbert. 



{Genypterus omostigma Jor. & Glib., Pvoc. U. S. Nat. Mus , 1882, 

 301.) 



An Ophidioid fish has been referred by us to the genus Genyp- 

 terus, which genus we have regarded as distinguished from 

 Opliidium chiefly by the presence of a sharp spine on the opercle. 

 In the t3'pe of the genus Genypterus (G. cJiilensis Guichenot), 

 this spine is obsolete. G. omistigma is therefore not a Genypterus^ 

 and it ma}^ probably be referred to Ophidium, from which Genyp- 

 terus is separated by Dr. Giinther on the variable and perhaps 

 vinimportant character of the enlarged palatine teeth. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP "1883. 



THE OCCIDENT ANT IN DAKOTA. 

 By Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D. 



I have recently received from Prof. J. E. Todd (Professor of 

 Natural Sciences at Tabor College, loAva, and an Assistant on the 

 TJ. S. Geological Survey-), some valuable facts concerning the 

 distribution of Pogonomyrmex occidentalis. While on a visit to 

 Dakota (1882), Prof. Todd had observed a number of ant-hills 

 which awakened his intei'est, and upon which he made various 

 observations. The facts noted, together with specimens of the 

 insects and scrapings fiom the mouuds, Avere sent to me, and 

 justifj' the following record : — 



1. Distribution and Site. — The ants were seen (A. D. 1882 and 

 1883) on the Missouri River, south of Bismarck, opposite the 

 mouth of the Cannon Ball River, and at a point sevent^'-five 

 miles southward. Upon the extensive plain forming the bottom 

 of theBois Cache Creek valley, and near the sand hills and grove 

 which give the name to the valley, the mounds are numerous. 

 Prof. Todd thinks with some confidence that they are not located 

 in the valley of the James River, nor in Dakota, any considerable 

 distance east from the Missouri River. He has traveled with a 

 team over 2500 miles in Dakota, east of the Missouri River and 

 south of the Northern Pacific Railroad, and has not noticed 

 the ant-hills elsewhere than the localities mentioned. In my 

 book on "The Honey and Occident Ants,"^ I have located this 

 ant in southern Dakota, upon conjecture, but the above, with 

 specimens, now give scientific confirmation. 



I wish to call attention to the additional facts thus con- 

 tributed in the precise line of the striking feature formerly 

 pointed out by me in the geographical distribution of Occi- 

 dentalis. According to Prof Todd, the r.nt is confined to the 

 bottom lands along the Missouri, and has not pushed eastward 

 through the Territoiy. This corresponds remarkably with my 

 conclusion, both from my own observations and those made under 

 m}^ direction by Dr. Horace Griffith, of Marengo, Iowa. This 

 conclusion is that Occidentalis does not dwell east of the Missouri 



^ The Honey Ants and the Occident Ants, p. 124 5. J. B. Lippincott & 

 Co., Phila. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



River, in Missouri, Iowa and Minnesota; that it avoids eastern, 

 while abounding in western Nebraska, and is not found in Kansas 

 further east than Brookville, longitude 22*^ W. from "Washington, 

 about 97° W. Greenwich, which is nearly that of the sites reported 

 b}' Prof. Todd. As Prof. Packard has reported the insect in 

 southern Montana, we ma^' now conclude that the entire western 

 part of the great valley of the Missouri (west of the river and 

 the above meridian) is inhabited bj' this ant and its closely allied 

 congener, P. barhatus^ the Agricultural Ant, 



It is worthy of liote that all the authentic reports which we 

 have of the latter insect also limit its eastern distribution to about 

 the same meridian. We have no account of it as inhabiting 

 southern Missouri, Arkansas and Louisiana, except a note of 

 Nuttall's in 1819, which appears to refer to one of these species. 

 Entomologists and naturalists generally in these States might do 

 good service by some attention to this point. It is a question of 

 profound interest, what natural cause has operated to establish this 

 eastern limit of distribution? The writer confesses his inability 

 to discover an^- relation between the structure and economj- of tlie 

 ant, and the physical condition of the country, that could throw 

 an}^ light upon the question. 



The two species ver}- closel}' resemble each other, the worker 

 forms scarcely ditfering except in bod^^-size ; the worker-major of 

 Occidentalis corresponds almost exactlj' with the minor of har- 

 batus. The chief differences in the sexual forms are of size and 

 color, but also a slight difference in venation. There are, however, 

 some marked differences in nidifieation and habit. The Agricul- 

 tural Ant occupies the southern section of the above marked 

 geographical district, and it seems scarcelj^ possible to resist the 

 inference that it is a modified form of Occidentalis (or vice versa) 

 who inhabits the northern section. The local site of the nests in 

 Dakota is generally a sand}' flat or bottom, 



2. Nidifieation. — From the observations of Prof. Todd, it 

 further appears that the Dakota ants agree with those of Colorado 

 in the position of the gate, at one-half to one-third the distance 

 from the base ; in the general appeai'ance of the mounds, which 

 are uniformly in the centre of a circular cleared area three or four 

 feet in diameter. In size they are smaller, being about six inches 

 high and about two feet in diameter. Thej' are roofed in some 

 sites with small gravel stones of quartz, but in others, as at the 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



mouth of the Cannon Ball River, have no such covering. Prof. 

 Tocld is inclined to think that the gravel roofing is selected from 

 the nest vicinage and placed upon the mound ; but I believe the 

 stones to have been excavated from the underground galleries, 

 granaries and rooms, and brought up therefrom. However, I 

 think the construction of a roof by s?lection to be quite within 

 the ability of the Occidents, as I have observed them carrying 

 pebbles up, down and around the mound in all directions after 

 issuing from the gate. 



3. Harvesting habit. — Among the pebbles sent to me are a 

 number of husks, etc., of various seeds whicli appear to have been 

 taken from the kitchen-middens or refuse-heaps of the formicary. 

 These indicate that the Dakota emmets, like the more southern 

 examples, are harvesting ants. Mr. Thomas Meehan, to whom 

 was referred a small quantity of the debris collected from 

 the margin of a nest by Prof. Todd, reports that there are no 

 seeds among the pebbles, but that there are a number of calices 

 and undeveloped capsules of a leguminous plant, Dalea alopecur- 

 oides, which is common on the American plains. I was puzzled 

 to explain why such intelligent creatures should be detected in 

 harvesting immature seeds, until, upon inquirj^, I found that 

 leguminous plants have a succession of flowers, so that there may 

 be mature seeds and flowers on a plant at the same time. Mr. 

 Meehan actually found upon a specimen of the above plant in the 

 Academy's Herbarium, both the flower and the fully developed 

 seed; indeed, the two appear to occur upon the same spike. It 

 is thus evident that the ants were not harvesting out of season, 

 but were occasionally deceived, and cast out to the refuse-heaps 

 the calices that contained no edible seed. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 297 



STAINING "WITH H^IMATOXYLON. 

 BY CHARLES L. MITCHELL, PH. D., M. D. 



Hfematoxylon or logwood was first recommended b}' Boehmer 

 for the staining of tissues and sections, for microscopic examina- 

 tions. Its rapid action, clearness of differentiation and beautiful 

 tint soon made it a favorite staining agent with mieroscopists. 

 Possessing even a greater selective power than carmine in sepa- 

 rating and staining the bioplasm of animal and vegetable tissues, 

 it was also superior to this coloring agent in the fact that the 

 violet tint of the logwood was not nearl}^ so fatiguing to the eye 

 in prolonged examinations with the microscope. The deeper hue 

 of the logwood-coloring was also an advantage in the fact that the 

 contrasts of colored and uncolored tissue afforded hy its use pro- 

 duced a much more perfect definition and clearness of outline 

 than could be produced by a brighter color. Xucleus, nucleolus 

 and cell-wall, when stained b}' this agent, all stand out clearly 

 and with perfect distinctness and sharpness of outline — a result 

 not to be attained by the use of an3' other coloiiug material. 



The use of logwood as a staining agent, however, was soon 

 found to be attended with strong and serious disadvantages. The 

 staining fluid soon became thick, cloud}' and filled with a grumous 

 sediment, at the same time changing its color ; sections and 

 tissues, stained with it, were of a dirty brown color and soon 

 faded, and, unless the solution was freshly prepared, the results 

 obtained from it could not be depended upon. The numerous 

 formulae, published b}' Kleinenberg, Boehmer, Miller, Klein and 

 many others, some of which formulae are exceedinglj- complicated,, 

 are sufficient proof that the task they undertook was not an easy 

 one; and, judging by the results, a simple, satisfactory formula 

 for preparing this desirable coloring agent has yet to be published. 

 It is m}^ purpose this evening to call the attention of the members 

 of the Section to a new and simple method of preparing a log- 

 wood staining fluid, b}' which a permanent, reliable and satisfactory 

 preparation can be easih^ made. This method, I think, will place 

 within the reach of every microscopist a staining fluid which is 

 stable in composition, comparatively easy of preparation and 

 unequaled in the delicacy and clearness of differentiation of its 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



coloring. I have previousl}', at several different meetings of the 

 Section, alluded to my experiments with this agent, and have also 

 shown at different times some specimens of tissues stained with 

 it ; but I did not feel willing to place my results definitely before 

 ^•ou, until sufficient time had elapsed to fully test the permanence 

 of the preparation and of the stainings produced by its use. I 

 have placed before j^ou this evening, however, under the different 

 microscopes on the table, a series of preparations, single and 

 double stainings, which will, I tiiink, speak for themselves, and 

 also a sample of the staining fluid. Both fluid and specimens 

 were prepared nearly a year ago. 



In considering the method of preparation of this fluid, it will 

 be well to review briefly the chemistry of logwood. Logwood is 

 the heart-wood of Heematoorylon Campeachianum, a large tree 

 found in Campeachy, Honduras and other parts of tropical 

 America, and is used extensively in the textile arts for dyeing 

 fabrics of a purple, blue or black color. Among its chemical 

 constituents are resinous matter, a peculiar tannin, free acetic 

 acid, A'arious salts and nitrogenous principles, and a peculiar 

 principle called hematin, or hsematoxylon, on which the coloring 

 properties of the wood depend. This hematin is, when pure, 

 perfectly colorless, but affords beautiful red, blue and purple colors 

 when in union with an alkaline base and the oxygen of the air. 

 It also combines with the alums to form lakes^ that peculiar class 

 of coloring substances of which carmine is so remarkable an 

 example. Now, this lake of logwood is the principle which acts 

 as the dj-e ; and, in order to obtain the color in all its delicacy 

 and purity, all other contaminating impurities must be removed. 

 The various formulae for the preparation of a logwood staining fluid 

 have nearly all directed the use of the commercial extract of 

 logwood, which, aside from the numerous impurities necessarily 

 found in so crude an article, is totally unfit for the purpose, for 

 reasons which I will presentl3' i)oint out. 



As alread}" mentioned, logwood contains, bes"des its coloring 

 principle, considerable quantities of tannin — so much, in fact, as 

 to give it a position in the U. S. Pharmacopoeia as an astringent. 

 It is well known that vegetable infusions containing tannin are 

 quickly influenced by the action of both light and air, and when 

 these arc assisted b}- heat, changes take place very rapidl3^ 

 Under these circumstances, the infusions change color, become 




1883.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



cloudy and dei)Osit large quantities of an insoluble sediment. It 

 therefore can be readily understood that an extract of logwood, 

 prepared by the evaporation of an infusion of the drug, must be to 

 some extert changed b}' the process of manufacture, and that any 

 preparation made from it would (the process of decomposition 

 having already been started) become much more liable to change. 

 And just such a result takes place in staining fluids prepared from 

 extract of logwood. The partiall}' oxidized tannin in the liquid 

 gradually absorbs more oxygen from the air, and changes to other 

 complex organic compounds ; the coloring matter is also affected 

 by the decomposition, and gradually becomes converted into 

 other substances, and the liquid finalU^ becomes of a dirty, muddy 

 color, and is half filled with a lump}' sediment. This change will 

 be found to take i)laee in all ordinary' logwood staining fluids, 

 whether prepared from the extract or from the di'ug itself, although 

 from the nature of the case those made from the extract would be 

 the most quickly affected. The idea, therefore, occurred to my 

 mind, that if the tannin could bo removed, and the lake of log- 

 wood isolated in a state of comparative purit}', a staining fluid 

 could be prepared which might possibly be both permanent and 

 satisfactory. After numerous and lengthy experiments, the 

 desired ol'ject was obtained, and the formula which I now present 

 to 3'our notice is the result of my investigation on the subject. 

 As a means of distinguishing this preparation from the other and 

 generall}- worthless logwood fluids, I have thought it best to call it 



'• MITCHELL'S He.MATIN StAINING FlUID." 



R 



Finely ground logwood, . . . . * . . i ij. 



Sulph. aluminum and potash (potash alum), ... 3 ix. 



Glycerine, . . . . . . . . /. s iv. 



Distilled water, .... a sufficient quantity. 



Moisten the ground logwood with sufficient cold water to slightly 

 dampen it, place it in a funnel or percolator, packing it loosely, 

 and then percolate sufficient water through the drug until the 

 liquid coming from the percolator is but slightly colored. Allow 

 the drug to drain thoroughly, and then remove it from the perco- 

 lator, and spread out on a paper or board to diy. Dissolve the alum 

 in eight fluid-ounces of water, moisten the diT drug with a suffi- 

 cient quantit}' of the fluid, and again pack in the percolator, this 

 time rather tightlj-, and pour on the remainder of the alum solu- 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



tion. As soon as the liquid percolates through and commences to 

 drop from the end of the percolator, close the aperture with a 

 tightly fitting cork, and allow the drug to macerate for forty-eight 

 hours. Remove the cork at the expiration of that time, allow the 

 liquid to drain off, and then pour sufficient water upon the drug 

 to percolate through twelve fluid-ounces altogether. Mix this with 

 the glycerine, filter and place in a elo.-e-stopped bottle. 



In this process nearly all the tannin is removed by percolating 

 the drug with cold water, a menstruum in which the coloring 

 principle is not very soluble, and the subsequent maceration and 

 percolation with the alum solution remoA-cs the logwood lake in a 

 state of comparative purity. The glj'cerine is added simph' for 

 its preservative qualities, and this ma}- be still increased by the 

 addition of a few drachms of alcohol to the solution. 



The heraatin staining fluid thus prepared is a clear, heavy fluid 

 of a deep purplish red color. It will keep its color for a length of 

 time, and deposits no sediment. The sample exhibited to the 

 meeting this evening has been on my working table for nearly a 

 year, frequentl}' exposed to a strong light and open to the air, 

 and, as you may see, it is as yet unchanged. As a staining fluid, 

 used either strong or diluted, I consider it far superior to &ny 

 other stain I know of. Permanent and beautiful in its color, 

 which is of a delicate violet hue, clear and sharp in its definition 

 of the different tissues under examination, it will bear use with 

 the very highest powers of the microscope, and, I hope, enable 

 observers t-o distinguish minute diflerences of tissue which have 

 hitherto escaped notice. 



A few words in conclusion as regards the method of using this 

 fluid. It yields good results, when used undiluted, as a quick 

 stain ; but the most excellent results, to my mind, are obtained b}- 

 placing the tissues in a weak solution (ten drops to two fluid- 

 drachms), with warm distilled water, for about twelve hours. This 

 method leaves nothing to be desired, and produces results of 

 surpassing delicacy and beauty. I had intended, in conclusion, 

 to refer to the beautiful double-staining iDroduced by this agent 

 in connection with a new preparation of indigo-sulphuric acid, 

 and have several specimens on exhibition this evening ; but I 

 think it will be best to devote a separate paper to the consid- 

 eration of this subject, which I trust to be able to present at a 

 future meeting of this Section. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



December 4. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirt3'-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Study of the Distribution of Gluten 

 within the Starch Grain," by N. A. Randolph, M. D., was pre- 

 sented. 



Gold from North Carolina. — Prof. H. Carvill Lewis exhibited 

 some remarkable wold nut>gets, found in Montgomery county. North 

 Carolina, forty miles east of Charlotte and two miles from Yadkin 

 River. Some of the nuggets Avere of great size. One of them 

 weighed over four pounds, and contained nearly Si 000 worth of 

 gold, being finer than any specimens in the collection at the Mint. 

 It was probably one of the largest nuggets ever found in eastern 

 America. Many of the nuggets exhibited were nearh^ ])ure gold. 

 The gold had a crystalline structure, and was of fine yellow color. 

 It was stated that in the district of Xorth Carolina whence 

 these nuggets were taken, gold was xevy abundant. The larger 

 specimens were found in the guUeys, where they had been washed 

 out of the decomposed ro(;k, and it had been stated that a shovelful 

 of dirt dug out of the hillsides anj'where in this vicinit}' would 

 pan out traces of gold. Some years ago one man took out of a 

 hole sixteen feet square $30,000 worth of gold. The quartzite 

 containing the gold occurs in a white clay or decomposed schist. 



December 11. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair, 

 Thirtj'-three persons present. 



On Extinct Rhinoceri from the Southwest. — Professor Cope 

 exhibited the skull of a young rhinoceros, probably of the species 

 Aphelopa fossiger Cope, from the Loup Fork Bed of the valley 

 of the San Francisco River, New Mexico. He also exhibited 

 photographs of a mandibular ramus of a 3'nung rhinoceros, sent 

 him by Dr. Mariano Barcena, of the Cit^- of Mexico. The ramus 

 had been exhumed in the State of Mexico, and apparently belonged 

 to a young individual of the Aphe' ops fossiger .,\)\.\t'\% of relatively 

 small dimensions. Prof. Cope regarded the discovery as proving 

 the existence of the Loup Fork formation at that localit}'. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



A Fungus infecting Flies. — Prof. Leidy directed attention to 

 a vial filled with flies adherent to fragments of leaves. He stated 

 that on the first of August, the last summer, he had noticed that 

 from the swarm of flies that were attracted by the ripe fruit of a 

 black mulberrry, Morus yiigra, many settled on the under side of 

 the leaves, and theie became fixed and died from the invasion of 

 a fungus, in the same manner as the house-fly often becomes 

 attached to walls and window-panes, in the autumn, through the 

 agency' of the fungus known as the Sporendonema. The infested 

 flies on the mulberry-tree were so numerous, that perhaps a fourth 

 of the foliiige ot 1 he lower boughs had from one to half a dozen of 

 the flies adherent to each leaf. The fly, though a familiar one, is 

 unknown by name to him. It resembles the house-fly, but is larger 

 and has a black abdomen with lateral whitish spots. The fungus, 

 of a fuscous hue, is especially- evident in the extended intervals of 

 tlie segments of the abdomen, along the sides of the thorax and 

 at the neck. Though extending to and attaching the flies to the 

 leaves, the specimens do not exhibit the zone of spores on the 

 leaf as commonly seen in those of infested house-flies. Micro- 

 scopic examination exhibited a similar structure of the fungus to 

 that of the Sporendonema or Ernpusa muscae. It mainly consists 

 of translucent cylindrical, straight or somewhat toituous rods or 

 tubes of variable length with rounded ends, and containing homo- 

 geneous liquid with rows of oil-like globules. Mingled with the 

 tubes are numerous oval, ovoid, and pj-riform spore-like bodies, 

 usuallv each Avith two oil like globules. The spore-like bodies 

 measure 0-028 to 0-036 mm. long, by 0-016 mm. thick. The 

 longer tubes measure usually up to 0-16 mm. long, by 0-012 mm. 

 thick. 



On Manayunkia. — Prof. Leidy made some reran rks on a speci- 

 men of 3Ianayunkia, of which he exhibited a di'awing, and which 

 had been recently obtained by Mr. Edward Potts, from the mill- 

 pond of Absecom Creek, at Absecom, N. J. It was of especial 

 interest as apparently confirming the fresh-water habit of a cepha- 

 lobranch annelide. The worm was contained in a tube attached 

 to the midrib of a decayed leaf, to which there were attached 

 several similar but empty tubes about one line long. The worm, 

 1-5 mm. long, appears to be an immature form of Manayunkia 

 speciosa. The body consists of ten setigerous segments succeeding 

 the head. The latter supports two lophophores, each with ten 

 tentacles, of which none are conspicuoush' larger than the others. 

 A pair of ej'cs occupy the head, but no pigment spots exist along 

 the base of the tentacles. The podal setae are from two to four, 

 but mostly three, on each side of the segments. The podal hooks, 

 but one on each side of the setigerous segments, except the first 

 of the latter, which has none ; and the last two, which have rows of 

 six comb-like hooks on each side. The worm is translucent white, 

 and the blood very pale green. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Ordinarily, Ab;*ecom pond is puvelj- fresh water, and contains 

 in abundance tlie usual jjlants and animals characteristic of fresh 

 waters. Mr. Stuart Wood stated that in occasional extreme high 

 tide of Absecom Creek, the pond had been subjected to the over- 

 flow of salt water. 



How a Carpenter Ant Queen founds a Formicary. — Rev. Dr. 

 McCooK presented three specimens of fertile queens of the Penn- 

 sylvania carpenter ant, Camponotus pennsylvanicus. These had 

 been given him b}^ Dr. Josejjh Leidy, wlio had taken them during 

 the last summer at Wallingford, Delaware Co., Pa. The circum- 

 stances under which they were captured afforded a good demon- 

 stration of the manner in which a new colony of this and other 

 species is begun, confirming the speaker's own observations and 

 published statements. One specimen was taken, August 9, in a 

 chestnut log; tlie others, August 14, in the stump of a chestnut- 

 tree. The}' were enclosed within small cavities about an inch in 

 diameter, and, curiously, the queens had sealed themselves within 

 their nests by closing up the original opening b}' which they had 

 entered, and from which, as a nucleus, they must have cut out 

 their resident-room and nursery. If, therefore, they sallied forth 

 to obtain food, as they may have done (for Dr. McCook had at 

 various times observed queens wandering solitary-), they must 

 have removed the plug or "door," and restored it to place again 

 upon re-entrance. However, he believed it to be quite within the 

 bounds of ])robability that a well-fed queen could live without 

 additional food for several weeks — a period long enough to rear 

 a small brood, and also feed the larv* from the contents of her 

 crop, which might serve as a storehouse of food, as was explained 

 b}" illustrations of the anatomy of the alimentary canal. 



In the same receptacle with the queens were found (1) the 

 white, oval or C3lindrical eggs of the species ; ( 2) larvse of various 

 sizes, from those just escaped out of the egg i2-^ mm. long) to 

 full-grown (about 10 mm.); i3) the cocoons, or enclosed ])ui)ie; 

 and in one case (4) a callow antling, which had evidently just 

 escaped from its case. This antling -was, as indeed all the larvas 

 and cocoons appeared to be, of the dwarf caste. There are three 

 castes in a formicary of Camponotus: the worker-major, the 

 worker-minor and the minim, or dwarf. We may infer that the 

 latter caste is the one which is first produced in rearing a familv. 



In response to a remark and suggestion made that the imperfect 

 nurture given to the larvje, under the peculiar circumstances, might 

 account for the appearance of small workers first in order, Di*. 

 McCook stated that, whatever one might conjecture to have been 

 the fact in the remote origin of these castes among ants, it is certain 

 that when the formicary has been fully peopled with workers, and the 

 food-supply is unlimited, the several castes still continue to appear. 

 Minims, minors and majors not onl}' abound among the mature 

 insects, but are found among the larvae and cocoons. These 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



distinctions are a permanent feature of the ant economy ; and 

 while it is perhaps not permitted one to say that they are not caused 

 by differences in amount or character of the nurture given in the 

 larval state, yet this did not seem at all probable to the speaker. 

 The fact that, in some genera, the workers have also remark- 

 able differences in structure (as of the head, for example, in 

 Pheidnle and Pogonomyrmex C7'udelis) goes to show that differen- 

 tiation into castes is regulated by something other than the food- 

 supply. 



The above observations are valuable as proving that the 

 females of Gamponotua, when fertilized, go solitary, and after 

 dispossessing themselves of their wings, begin the work of 

 founding a new familj'. This work the_y carry on until enough 

 workers are reared to attend to the active duties of the formicary, 

 as tending and feeding the young, enlarging the domicile, etc. 

 After that, the queens generall}' limit their duty to the laj-ing of 

 eggs, and, as the speaker had elsewhere fully described,^ are 

 continually guarded and restricted in their movements by a 

 circle of attendant workers, or "court." 



The above facts are further illustrated and enlarged by a series 

 of observations made by Mr. Edward Potts, in accordance with 

 the speaker's suggestions and directions. On or about June 16, 

 Mr. Potts captured a queen of C. pennsylvanicus running across his 

 parlor floor, late at night. He placed it in a bottle, but forgot to 

 examine it until five days later (21st and 22d June), when he was 

 surprised to find that the ant was alive, and had laid six or eight 

 eggs in the otherwise empty bottle ; which eggs, in their various 

 stages of development, she continued to attend for about fifty 

 days. He fed the ant by droj)ping into her bottle a pinch of 

 white sugar, which he moistened evei-y evening with a drop or two 

 of water; at which times she quit her otherwise unremitting 

 watch over the eggs and the larvae, to press her labium for a 

 moment into the sweet fluid, her labial and maxillary palps 

 meanwhile rapidly vibrating with pleasure. The egg-laying was, 

 from the first, very deliberate ; one or two eggs were added to the 

 original stock from time to time, until about the 15th August, 

 making the highest number counted, of all ages, nineteen. 



He did not observe the date of the first hatching, but these 

 larvae, at first no larger than the eggs, and only distinguishable 

 upon close observation by the slight grooves between the body 

 segments and the ill-defined head, gradually at first, and after- 

 wards more rapidl}', reached finally a length of about one-quarter 

 inch and began to spin their cocoons. On the morning of July 

 20, the first was surrounded by a single la3'er of web, but could 

 still be seen working inside it. By evening the cocoon was too 

 opaque to be seen through. On the morning of the 21st the 



> Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1879, p. 140 ; "Agricultural Ants of Texas," 

 p. 144 ; "Honey and Occident Ants," p. 41. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



second larva was covered in like manner, and the third by the 

 evening of the 22d. For some daj^s he was able to detect the dark 

 form of the young ant in one of these cocoons, and on the evening 

 of Aug. 11a worker was running about the bottle and already 

 essaying its ministrations upon the undeA'eloped eggs and the 

 next series of larvse, cpiite as big and much heavier than itself. 

 We have, then, the period from, say June 20 to July 20 (thirty 

 da3's), occupied in the development of the first eggs and the ful- 

 filment of the larval stage; from July 20 to August 11, say 

 twenty-two days, were spent in the pupa state. 



The manner of the young worker was very nervous and far from 

 soothing, especially to the well grown larvae, who evidently much 

 prefer a mother's care to that of an elder sister. He did not 

 observe this antling feeding from the sugar, but upon one or two 

 occasions saw osculatory advances towards its mother which 

 seemed to indicate that it was not above receiving its nutriment 

 from the maternal fount to which it became accustomed during its 

 wriggling youth. It constantl}^ climbed over the eggs and larvae, 

 apparently' nipping them with its mandibles, but not moving them 

 to an}- purpose. He saw no well-defined attempt at feeding them 

 on its part ; though, after patient observation, upon several occa- 

 sions, he observed this act performed by the parent ant. She Avould 

 caress the larva b}- sundrj' pats with her antenna? upon each side 

 of the face, when, if hungry, it would lift up its head under her 

 mandibles, placing its labium against hers, at which time a flow of 

 liquid down the larval throat was seen. 



As the queen's labors increased, she was less given to moving 

 her chai'ges from place to place, though they were not allowed to 

 remain long quiescent. While nervously anxious about them, Mr. 

 Potts thought that she showed little evidence of tenderness in 

 her treatment, trampling on them with her feet or dragging them 

 around under her heavy abdomen, as if they were really the putty 

 they looked like. 



The moisture necessary for the cleansing and growth of the 

 larvfiR was apparentl}^ supplied from the tongue of the caretaker, 

 who examined them one after another, moistening the dry places 

 and keeping the egg and larA'al skins flexible. The queen was 

 ver^'^ careful of the eggs, standing nearly all the time with her 

 head over the little heap, occasionally picking them up to raoA^e 

 them a quai'ter of an inch or more to one side. She was thrown 

 into a great excitement of solicitude when a fly, attracted b}' the 

 crumbs, intruded within her domicile. She sprang fiercely at the 

 fly and raged around her narrow compartment, seizing a group 

 of eggs as if to escape with them from a threatened danger, then 

 replacing them as though recognizing the impossibilit}' of getting 

 away. Her demeanor on this occasion indicated strong maternal 

 solicitude. 



Mr. Potts made some attempt to follow the embryonic changes, 

 and made a few drawings of the different phases. When first 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



seen the egg is full of fluid, uniform in appearance throughout. 

 When next observed segmentation had taken place and advanced 

 to the morula stage, showing everywhere small granular cells of 

 uniform size. Afterward a hyaline spot appears at one end of the 

 egg. which there seems empty or filled with a homogeneous fluid ; 

 next to which are large cells, containing smaller ones of various 

 sizes. Later both ends become transparent, the large cells 

 bounding the small-celled body-cavity and forming the well-known 

 s astrula condition. He was not able to trace the formation of 

 the various internal or external organs. The cyclosis or pulsa- 

 tion of the larval heart was counted in two instances at 45 and 50 

 per minute. 



The manner of o^■ipositing (August 13) the nineteenth egg 

 is thus described : When lirst ol)served the queen stood up high 

 upon all three ])airs of legs, the abdomen thrown forward between 

 them and the head bent back almost to meet it. The egg was 

 than about half protruded. Considerable muscular action was 

 visible throughout the abdomen, and when presently the egg was 

 posited she straightened herself out Avith a visible air of relief, but 

 forgot all about the egg, which was lelt lying under her for several 

 minutes while she attended to other matters, until at last, acci- 

 dentally touching it with one antenna, she picked it up and cari'ied 

 it to the family apartments, where, presently, the worker found it 

 and i)laced it in the group of the older eggs. An evident intent 

 at classifying the eggs and larvae was remarked, these (within the 

 narrow limitations of the chosen space) having been kept to a 

 good degree separate. 



August 18, another worker was released from its cocoon. Mr. 

 Potts did not scetiie act, but believed that the female assisted, as 

 she was seen standing over the neophyte w'ho seemed to be weak, 

 its femora bent forward, the tarsi and tibial still nearly reaching 

 the end of the abdomen, indicating the manner in which the legs 

 were folded in the cocoon. Immediateh' after release the mother 

 gave the young imago nourishment in the manner above described. 



At this date there were in the formicary, beside the mature ants, 

 two full-grown larvae, very fat, two about lialf-grown, and several 

 smaller ones, with the eggs in diflferent stages of development. 

 The two oldest were then evidently about readj- to spin, but what 

 chance they could have, with the mature ants continuall}^ tramping 

 over them, standing them up on end or hauling them olf to a 

 distance, Mr. Potts was at a loss to imagine. From the mouth of 

 one he observed a strand of silk protruding, but the workers 

 came, apparently trying to grasp it, and left him in doubt whether 

 their object was to help or hinder the weaving process. 



August 14, one of the two full-grown larvue was found wrapped 

 in its w^inding sheet. The web was very thin and the motion of 

 the larvae readil}^ seen through it. The other larva seemed almost 

 totally quiescent, but careful examination with a Coddington 

 lens showed some muscular action in the posterior segments of 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



the body. Their state of comparative torpor was thought to imme- 

 diately precede the act of spinning. At this date the workers 

 had become less nervous in their motions, and the female seemed 

 to have resigned most of her labors to them, resting much of the 

 time quietly in one place. 



August 16, the third worker had emerged and was found quite 

 at home in attending to its duties. The second grown larva was 

 then still uncovered and quiescent. Yery close observation was 

 required to show that it still breathed, and it made no other 

 visible motion. 



These observations of Mr. Potts establish or confirm the fol- 

 lowing points : < 1) The manner of depositing the eggs, which, as 

 well as the larvae, are cared for by the queen until workeis are 

 matured; (2) the stages in the development of the egg and larvae 

 are partialh' noted ; (8) the time requiied for the change from 

 larval to pupal state is about thirt}* days ; (4) about the same 

 period is spent in the pupa state, the entire period of transforma- 

 tion being about sixt}' daAS ; (5) the work of rearing the first 

 broods of Campoywtua begins the latter part of June or early in 

 July; (6) about twenty-four hours are spent bj- larvse in spinning 

 up into cocoon; (7) the ant queen probably assists the callow 

 antling to emerge from its case; (8) not onl}- the larvae, but 

 occasionally also the antlings, are fed by the queen ; (9) the 

 young workers, shortly after emerging, begin the duty of nurses, 

 caring- for the eggs and tending the larvae. Some of these points 

 thus abstracted and formulated by him Dr. McCook was subse- 

 quentl3' able to confirm from observations upon the same queen. 

 His thanks were due Mr. Potts for the intelligent and successful 

 manner in which his suggestions had been carried out. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




)08 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



A STUDY OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF GLUTEN WITHIN THE WHEAT 



GEAIN. 



BY N. A. RANDOLPH, M. D. 



The object of the present paper is to briefly describe several 

 methods for the demonstration of gluten in the central portion of 

 the wheat grain, and the results of their application. 



For many years the great majoritj^ of observers and of writers 

 upon gluten have stated that this highlj' important nitrogenous 

 element of food is found almost, if not quite exclusively, in the 

 fourth laj'er (Parkes) of the grain, immediately below and adhe- 

 -rent to the third or inner coat of the true bran ; this fourth \-dyer 

 is composed of closely packed yellowish granular cells of ovate or 

 cuboid form, each of which is provided with a dense, laminated 

 cellulose wall and contains a large proportion of free fat. Imme- 

 diately within this layer of so-called " gluten-cells," and constituting 

 the greater portion of the grain, is an aggregation of much larger, 

 usually elongated, cjdindrical cells, Avhose contents are apparently 

 made up exclusivel}' of starch granules which exhibit great 

 diversity in size. 



So fixed and widespread has the belief become that the gluten 

 of the wheat resides in specific cortical cells of the grain, that not 

 only do man^'^ most intelligent persons habitually rasp their 

 digestive surfaces with branny foods, but attempts to determine, 

 b}' microscopical examination, the nutritive values of various pre- 

 pared foods have been made, in which the proportion of " gluten- 

 cells " found in a given food formed the criterion of its value. ^ 

 These assumptions have called forth merited criticism from 

 Prof. Richardson, of this city, and from Prof Leeds, of Hoboken, 

 both of whom emphasized the fact, singularly ignored by Cutter, 

 Jacobi and their followers, that ordinary white wheat-flour contains 

 a varying but alwaNS notable quantity of gluten. 



So far as the writer is informed, however, there has not been 

 recorded any ocular demonstration of the gluten of the wheat 

 grain, in aitu and entirely independent of the " gluten-cells." 

 Such a demonstration may be conclusively made bj'^ either of the 

 following methods : 



1. If whole wheat grains be macerated in water to which a few 



1 E. Cutter, M. D., Galliard's Med. Jour., Jan., 1882. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



drops of ether have been added to prevent germination, they will, 

 in a few days, become thoroughly softened, and the contents of 

 such a grain may then be squeezed out as a white tenacious mass. 

 Examination of the remaining bran shows the " giuten-cells " 

 undisturbed, closely adhering to the cortical protective laj'ers. 

 By now carefull}' washing the white extruded mass, the major 

 part of its starch may be removed ; and upon the addition of a 

 drop of iodine solution, microscopic examination shows numer- 

 ous networks of fine yellow fibrils, still holding entangled in their 

 meshes many starch granules colored blue by the iodine. In 

 carefully washed specimens, these sponge-like networks are seen 

 to retain the outline of the central starch-filled cells, and evidenti}' 

 constitute the protoplasmic matrix in which the starch granules 

 la}'. Upon gently teasing such a specimen under a moderate 

 amplification the fibrils will be seen to become longer aud thinner 

 in a manner possible only to viscid and tenacious substances — a 

 class represented in wheat by gluten alone. 



An eminently satisfactory proof of the proteid nature of these 

 central networks may be obtained by heating the specimen in the 

 solution of acid nitrate of mercurj'^ (Millon's reagent), when the 

 fibrils will assume the bright pink tint characteristic of albumen- 

 oids under this treatment. The results of the application of the 

 xanthoproteic and biuret reactions are equall}- conclusive, but more 

 care is required in the use of these proteid tests, and the resultant 

 differentiation is not so clear. Reticuli similar to those above 

 described, but much broken and smaller, may be seen, upon close 

 examination, scattered throughout fine white flour, without the 

 addition of anj^ reagent. 



By general consent, the albumenoids of the wheat grain are 

 grouped together as gluten, which is, however, further separable 

 into gluten-fibrin, gliadin and mucedin, proteid bodies practically 

 equal in nutritive value, but differing in certain phj'^sical proper- 

 ties, notably that of solubility. It must, therefore, be borne in 

 mind that in this, as in all other methods of separating gluten 

 from the other constituents of the grain, its relatively small soluble 

 portion is removed with the starch, and that any estimate of the 

 quantity' of gluten based upon such methods will probably be 

 rather under than over the actual amount. 



2. In even the thinnest sections of the wheat grain, the gluten 

 of the central portion is always masked by large numbers of starch 




310 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



granules. These may, to a large extent, be removed by immersing 

 the section for a short time in liquor potassje, with subsequent 

 careful washing. The alkali affects the hydration and partial 

 solution of the starch; but if its ap|:>lication be too long continued, 

 the gluten will also be dissolved. Tliis treatment is well adapted 

 to show the rather dense gluten networks usuall}' found in bran, 

 immediately below the fourth layer. 



3. The most satisfactory method of studying the distribution of 

 gluten in sections of wheat is that of artificial salivary digestion. 

 If tlie section be gently boiled for a moment to hydrate the starch, 

 then transferred when cool to filtered saliva, and maintained for 

 from half an hour to an hour at a temperature of about 98° Fahr., 

 all the starch will be digested away, while the insoluble proteid 

 and other constituents will remain entirely unaltered. A section 

 of ^\heat grain thus treated will exhibit, thi'oughout its entire 

 central portion, close-meshed gluten networks, which become 

 slightly" denser toward the cortex of the grain. The proteid 

 character of these reticuli is here, as in the first method, sus- 

 ceptible of micro-chemical demonstration by Millon's reagent or 

 the biuret reaction. A relativel}- very faint coloration, indicating 

 the presence of albumenoids, is noticeable in the " gluten-cells," 

 Avhile the gradual condensation of the gluten of the endosperm as 

 the coi'tex is approached, is evidenced by a quite vivid coloration 

 of the fibrils. 



Selienk ^ has applied Millon's reagent to sections of wheat with 

 a resultant assumption by the endosperm of a pink tint and " no 

 coloration of the cortical gluten-cells.'' The starch was not removed 

 and the method of distribution of gluten was not determined. By 

 artificial gastric digestion of wheat sections, the same observer 

 noted that the starch of the section became readily detached, and 

 deduced from this the just proposition that the gluten lay between 

 the starch granules. 



Objections are not infrequently offered \)\ the chemist to the 

 microscopical determination of organic compounds, especially 

 where any attempt at a quantitative estimation is made. All that 

 is claimed for the methods above described is the demonstration 

 of gluten in very considerable quantity in the inner lawyers of the 

 wheat grain. It is but just to state, however, that by these 

 methods a conception maj' be obtained of the quantity of proteids 



^ Anat.-Physiol.-Unters., p. 32. Wien., 1872. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA. 311 



■within the grain fully as accurate as that given b}' the usual 

 chemical method of estimating the albumeiioids of a given body, 

 nameh', from the entire amount of nitrogen contained in it. 

 Especially is this true in the case of vegetable tissues. In a close 

 analysis of the potato, Schultze and Barbieri found that only5G-2 

 per cent, of all its nitiogcn existed in albumenoid combination, 

 while in the fodder-beet only 20 per cent, of tlie nitrogen went to 

 the formation of albumenous compounds; the remainder in each 

 case entering into tlie composition of non-nutritious bcKlies. as 

 amides, nitrates, ammonia and aspavagin. 



The fact that the gluten networks become denser toward the 

 periphery of the endosperm, together with the presence of non- 

 albumenoid nitrogenous compounds in the perisperm, explains 

 the notable percentage of nitrogen found in bran as ordinarily 

 roughl}' removed. 



The color tests mentioned above indicate that the amount of 

 proteids contained in the cells of the fourth layer is relatively 

 A'ery slight ; but admitting for the moment that these cells contain 

 gluten, tlie question naturall}' arises whether, in view of their 

 dense cellulose walls, they are capable of serving as a food-stuff 

 for man. In artificial digestions the writer has found these 

 elements, even when thoroughly cooked, to bo unaffected by the 

 digestive juices ; that is. well-boiled l)ran with its adherent "gluten- 

 cells,'' will sustain prolonged maceration at the temperature of 

 the human digestive tract in artificial gastric and pancreatic juice 

 (in which, under the same conditions, fibrin is readily digested) 

 without exhibiting any change. These cells were further found 

 to be unaffected b^- maceration for thirty- days in liquor potassae, 

 except for a slight swelling of the cell and the occasional coales- 

 cence of some of its contained oil-globules. Thev were also 

 practically unchanged b}' a few days' immersion in strong nitric 

 acid. In order to obtain conclusive and unassailable results as to 

 the nutritive value of the " gluten-cells " as far as man is con- 

 cerned, the writer has at present under observation a number of 

 healthy adults, who daily receive, in addition to their regular diet, 

 a small fixed amount of boiled bran. Their alvine dejections 

 (containing all the undigested elements of food aft^r the normal 

 act- on of all the digestive juices) will be submitted to close micro- 

 scopical examination, with a view to ascertaining the extent to 

 which the "gluten-cells" have been digested, and a report will 

 be made upon the results in the near future. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



December 18. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Sixty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled "Reproduction in Amphileptus fasciola,'' b}' 

 Andrew J. Parker, M. D., was presented for publication. 



Miss Adele M. Fielde made a communication on the language, 

 literature and folk-lore of China. 



December 25. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fift}' persons present. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 313 



BEPEODTJCTION IN AMPHILEPTUS FASCIOLA. 

 BY ANDREW S. PARKER, M. D., PH. D. 



Several 3'ears ago, while examining some infusoria, I noticed a 

 specimen of Amphileptus fasciola undergoing some curious 

 changes, the nature cf which, at tliat time, I did not fully appre- 

 ciate, supposing them to be due to the dissolution of the animal. 

 Recently I observed the same series of phenomena occurring in 

 another individual, and on tracing them out more fully I found 

 that they were due, not to the death of the infusorian, but to what 

 I believe is a method of reproduction not hitherto observed, or at 

 least not described, in this group. My attention, in both instances, 

 was attracted hy& peculiar oscillating movement, the Amphileptus 

 rocking from side to side, the animal remaining stationary, 

 although its cilia were in active motion. In other respects the 

 animal appeared normal, no changes being observed in its nucleus, 

 protoplasmic contents or contractile vesicle. Shortly after I had 

 noticed this peculiar rocking movement I found that the elongated 

 extremity was breaking up into small masses of protoplasm ; 

 these gradually separated from the parent body, and each of them 

 exhibited distinct amoeboid movements. Although the cilia 

 seemed to break off with the small masses, I could not detect 

 any sigus of tlieir presence after separation. For about five 

 minutes small protoplasmic masses, exhibiting distinct and inde- 

 pendent amoeboid movements, continued to be shed. 



The rocking movement still continued, but now commenced to 

 show signs of being converted into a movement of rotation. 

 Finally a rotary motion was established, and the animal com- 

 menced to change its position. At the same time I noticed a 

 distinct elongation occurring at the end where the changes 

 described above had taken place, a rounded projection appearing, 

 which gradually elongated, until finally, in the course of about 

 two hours, the individual had assumed its original shape and 

 activity, although apparently somewhat diminished in bulk. 

 Cilia covered the new growth, but the}- did not seem to be a new 

 formation, but were produced by a simple elongation of the 

 ectosarc, this being carried forward by the growing endosarc. As 

 regards the protoplasmic masses that were shed or discharged, I 

 observed them for about four hours, at which time they were still 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



active, and the parent mass still in active motion. On the fol- 

 lowing da}' I was unable to detect them, and as to their subsequent 

 history I know nothing. , 



To characterize the phenomena as described above, I propose 

 the term " Reproduction by Partial Dissociation." Reproduction 

 by fission, gemmation, conjugation and encystation have all been 

 observed in the ciliated infusoria; and some of the older writers, 

 such as Ehrenberg and others, have described a mode of increase, 

 in which the substance of the body breaks up into a number of 

 fragments, each of which is capable of becoming a distinct indi- 

 vidual. This process they called diffluence, but Stein and other 

 more recent observers have, denied the existence of this process, 

 claiming that it was merely a form of increase from encysted 

 forms. The phenomena as exhibited by Amphilejytiis fasciola 

 seem to be quite different from those described as occurring in 

 diffluence, and it certainly was not a case of encj-station. I have 

 been unable to find any account of reproduction in the infusoria 

 resembling that described above, and I therefore place the facts 

 on record, in order that the attention of other observers may be 

 directed towards the verification of the phenomena and views 

 expressed above. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the 

 Publication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE REC0RDl5^G SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 30, 1883, twenty-four members and seven 

 correspondents have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received from the fol- 

 lowing, and accepted on the usual conditions: — Wm. John Potts, 

 G. B. Cresson, Isaac S. Williams, Howard A. Kelly, M. D., John 

 Wagner, W. G. Audeuried, Charles W. Pickering, Wilson Mitchell, 

 H. W. Workman and R. S. Peabody. 



The deaths of fourteen members and seven correspondents have 

 been announced anc^ duly recorded in the printed Proceedings. 



Thirty- five papers have been presented for publication, as fol- 

 lows : Edw. D. Cope, 7 ; Jos. Leidy, 3 ; Angclo Heilprin, 3 ; S. B. 

 Buckley, 1 ; H. T. Cresson, 1 ; B. W. Everman and S. E. Meek, 1 ; 

 S. G. Foulke, 1 ; Andrew Garrett, 1 ; .Josiah Hoopes, I ; David S. 

 Jordan, 1 ; Alexis A. Julien, 1 ; H. Carvill Lewis, 1 ; Graceanna 

 Lewis, I ; Isaac C. Martindale, 1 ; Rev. H. C. McCook, 1; Charles 

 L. Mitchell, 1 ; Henry F. Osborn, 1 ; Benjamin Sharp, 1 ; Theo. 

 D. Rand, 1 ; Jos. Swain, 1 ; Jos. Swain and Geo. B. Kalb, 1 ; R. E. 

 C. Stearns, 1 ; Chas. H. Townsend, 1 ; Jos. Willcox, 1 ; Berlin H. 

 Wriglit, 1. One of these was withdrawn by the author; two of 

 those by Dr. Leidy and the one by Mr. Garrett were accepted for 

 publication in the Journal, and the others have been or are about. 

 to be issued in the Proceedings. 



One hundred and fifty-nine pages of the Proceedings for 1882 

 and two hundred and thirt3'-two pages of the volume for 1883 have 

 been published. The latter is illustrated bj' eleven jjlates. Sixty- 

 eight pages of the Journal, Yol. IX, Part I, have also been 

 printed. These include Dr. Leidj^'s paper on Urnatella gracilis, 

 advance copies of which were issued by the author earl}' in 

 December of the present 3'ear, and about half of Mr. Garrett's 

 paper on Societ}'^ Islands Shells. The former is illustrated by one 

 fine chromolithographic plate, and the latter by two pl.iin litho- 

 graphs, containing one hundred and fifty-two figures. 



One hundred and twenty -one copies of the Proceedings have 

 been distributed to subscribers. Fifty-nine copies have been sent 

 to domestic, and three hundred and thirteen to foreign journals 

 and societies. The exchansre list has been carefully revised. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



several societies from which we have not received an3fthing for 

 more than five years having been dropped, while a number hereto- 

 fore omitted have been added. It has always been the practice of 

 the societ}^ to send its publications to a number of important 

 foreign Universities and town libraries, situated in places not 

 otherwise in receipt of the Proceedings and Journal, so that 

 students everj^where may be able to inform themselves of the 

 Academ3''s contributions to science. These intellectual centres 

 have been supplied with the curient numbers of the Proceedings 

 as usual. 



A circular distributed to corresponding societic s in Jul}', asking 

 them to send their publications to the Academy by post, in 

 exchange for a like prompt transmission on our part, has not 

 been productive of as much result as was hoped for. An early 

 distribution of the proceedings is, however, of so much import- 

 ance, both to the contributors and to the society at large, that 

 each number will be mailed, hereafter, to exchanges as well as to 

 subscribers, as soon as possible after its issue from the press. 



The average attendance at the meetings during the year has 

 been thirtj'-one. Yerlial communications haA-e been made by 

 twenty-six members and two guests. Much the greater number 

 of these have been prepared b}^ the authors for publication in the 

 Proceedings, and form not the least important part of the annual 

 volume, while abstracts were made for the public press of those 

 which could at all be regar-led as of popular interest. 



Art. 6, Chap. X, of tlie By-Laws was amended on November 27 

 by striking out from the first line the word " onl}^" and from the 

 second and third lines the words " obtain permission to." Art. 

 C, Chap. XI, was amended at the same meeting by striking out all 

 after the word '' public " in the second line, and inserting in lieu 

 thereof "daily, except Sunday, and at least one da}' in the week 

 without charge on such conditions and under such regulations as 

 the Council shall establish from time to time." 



Dr. Ruschcnberger having been elected a Curator at the annual 

 election in 1882, thereb}^ became ex-oflflcio a member of the 

 Council ; Mr. Charles Morris was elected to fill the vacanc}^ thus 

 cx'eated in the latter bod}'. At the meeting of the Council held 

 February 17, the Curator-in-charge, Mr. Chas. F. Parker, was 

 granted a month's leave of absence in consequence of an indispo- 

 sition, which it was then hoped was but temporary. It was found 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



necessary, however, to renew the leave of absence from time to 

 time until his deatli on the 7th of September. Earnest testimony 

 to his worth as a man and to the value of his services to the 

 Academy has been already borne by his associates, and the general 

 feeling of the societ}' has been well expressed in the able bio- 

 graphical notice by his friend and fellow-member, Isaac C. Martin- 

 dale, published in the Proceedings of November 13. 



At the meeting of the Academy held October 2, Prof, Angelo 

 Heilprin was elected Curator, to fill the vacancy caused by the 

 death of Mr. Parker ; and at the meeting of the Council held on tlie 

 5th of October he was appointed Curator-in-charge, or Actuary 

 to the Curators. 



An inquiry from the New Century Club, as to the desirability 

 of endowing a professorship in the Academy, to be held exclu- 

 sively' by women, having been referred for consideration to the 

 Council, it was resolved that, inasmuch as the professorships are 

 open to women, as well as men, it is inexpedient to restrict any 

 professorship to either sex. This action of the Council was 

 endorsed bj' the Academy- and transmitted to the New Century 

 Club, with the suggestion that if a proposition were made to endow 

 a scholarship for women instead of a professorship, the subject 

 might receive further consideration. 



A committee, consisting of Messrs. Valentine, Corlies, Kuschen- 

 berger, Frazer and Whelen, was appointed January 2, to petition 

 tlie Legislature of Pennsylvania to aid the Academy in the exten- 

 sion and furnishing of its building. The efforts of this committee 

 have been so far unproductive of result, although by action of 

 the Legislature the collections of the Second Geological Survey- 

 of Pennsylvania are now stored in boxes in the cellar of the 

 Academ}'. Their value to the student would be, of course, greatly 

 enhanced if they were properly displayed. The Academy is, 

 however, entirelj' unable at present to furnish the space necessary 

 for such exhibition, and the request to the Legislature for aid in 

 the construction of an addition to the Academy, in which these 

 collections would be properlj' placed, cannot be deemed unreason- 

 able. 



The most important additions to the Academy's possessions 

 made during the j-ear have been the Wm. S. Yaux collections of 

 minerals and antiquities. After mature consideration bj^ the 

 Council and the Academy, the conditions proposed by the executor 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



for the government of the bequest were finall}' adopted at the 

 meeting held Februar}' 20. A special appropriation was made 

 for the alteration of the entresol rooms at the east end of the 

 hall, for the accommodation of these collections, and therein they 

 have been arranged by Mr. Jacob Binder, the special curator 

 appointed by the Council in conformity with the articles of 

 agreement. Mr. Binder's report, which follows that of the 

 Professor of Mineralogy, indicates the character and extent, as 

 well as the mode of arrangement, of the collections under his 

 charge. 



At the meeting held April 24, the following was adopted : — 

 Reaolved^ That the title to certain lands in Western Virginia, 

 belonging to the Academy, and heretofore held in trust therefor 

 \>y the late Wm. S. Vaux, be vested in Messrs. T. D. Rand, Jacob 

 Binder and S. Fisher Corlies, as trustees for the Acadamy, and 

 that the title to a burial lot, owned by the Academy in the ceme- 

 tery adjoining the Academy's premises on Race Street, be trans- 

 ferred to the Trustees of the Building Fund, in accordance with 

 the recommendation of the Council, March 26, 1883. 



The American Association for the Advancement of Science has 

 accepted the invitation tendered b}' the Academj-, in conjunction 

 with other educational establishments, the officers of the municipal 

 government and proniiaent citizens, to meet in Philadelphia in 

 1884. It is hoped that the meeting may be attended by the 

 British Association which meets in Montreal next August, or at 

 least by an important representation thereof. The International 

 Electrical Exhibition, which it is proposed to hold at the same 

 time under the patronage of the Franklin Institute, cannot fail to 

 add largely to the interest of the occasion and to the number of 

 those in attendance. The result will probably be one of the 

 largest scientific meetings ever held, and one which cannot fail to 

 exert a beneficial influence on the Academy in common with the 

 other scientific institutions of the cMy. We have, therefore, 

 abundant reason to hope that the prosperity of the societj^ at 

 the end of next year will be at least as great as that so clearl}^ 

 set forth in the accompanying annual reports of officers and 

 sections. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Eecording Secretary. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary reports that the business of his 

 office presents but little variation from that of preceding years. 



There have been many favorable replies received from corre- 

 sponding societies to our request for an interchange of publications 

 bv mail, the result of which will be an earlier acquaintance with 

 the doings of other societies, greatly to the advantage of working 

 naturalists. 



The Mu?eum has received many additions during the year, a 

 detailed account of which will appear in the Curator's report. 

 These have been promptly acknowledged, to the number of 119. 



There have been seven Correspondents elected during the year, 

 and acknowledgment has been received from but one who was 

 elected during the present year. 



Our corresponding societies generally acknowledge the recep- 

 tion of our publications by letter, and accompany their own 

 publications with letters of transmission. 



Letters of acknowledgment have been received num- 

 bering, . 67 



Letters transmitting publications have been received 



numbering, . . . . • • • .42 

 Letters concerning postal interchange numbering, . 19 

 Ackowledgments from Corresponding Members, . 1 

 Miscellaneous correspondence, . . . .21 



In the latter number are many asking for deficiencies in their 

 series of our publications. These have been favorably responded 

 to whenever possible. There has been a considerable accession 

 to our exchange list during the current year. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the twelve months ending November 30, 1883, 3003 

 additions have been made to the library, an increase of 208 over 

 the c^rowth of 1882. These additions have consisted of 360 

 volumes, 2615 pamphlets and separate parts of periodicals, and 

 28 maps, sheets, photographs, etc. 




320 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



The above increase has been derived from the following 

 sources : — 



Societies, 



Editors, 



I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Authors, 



Joseph Jeanes, . . . 

 Thomas B. Wilson Fund, 

 University of Wiirzburg, 

 Department of the Interior, 

 Geological SuWey of Sweden 

 Smithsonian Institution, . 

 Department of Agriculture, 

 Dr. Frances W. Wetmore, 

 Geological Survey of Portugal 

 F. V. Hayden, .... 

 Geological Survey of India, 

 War Department, . . . 

 Geol. Sur\'ey of Peimsylvania, 

 Regents of the University of 



N^ew York, 



J. H. Redfield, 



Minister of Public Works, 



France, 



Treasuiy Department, . . . 

 Engineer Depart., U. S. A., . 

 Norwegian Government, . . 



British Museum, 



Geological Survey of New 



Zealand, 



111.3 



816 



487 



255 



83 



49 



27 



22 



22 



20 



19 



16 



13 



11 



10 



9 



Geol. Survey of Wisconsin, . 8 



Stephen G. Worth, .... 8 



Navy Department, .... 3 



Geological Survey of Belgium, 2 



J. S. Newberry, 2 



Department of Mines, Nova 



Scotia, 2 



Geological Survey of New- 

 foundland, 2 



East Indian Government, . . 2 



S. F. Corlies, 2 



Thomas Meehan, 1 



Trustees of the Indian Mus., . 1 



Trustees of the S. African Mus. , 1 



Rev. H. C. McCook, .... 1 



David L. James, 1 



Cobden Club, 1 



Geological Survey of Illinois, . 1 



O. A. Derby, 1 



Tnistees of the Boston City 



Hospital, 1 



F. V. Mueller, 1 



U. S. Coast Survey, .... 1 



Surgeon General's Office, . . 1 

 U. S. Commission of Fish and 



Fi-sheries, 1 



Executor of the late Wm. S. 



Vaux, 1 



The several lots have been presented on the Tuesday evening 

 following their reception, and distributed to the departments of 

 the library as follows, each title being immediately added to the 

 card catalogue : — 



Journals, 2225 



Geology, 202 



Conchology, 85 



General Natural History, . . 82 



Botany, 60 



Entomology, 46 



Bibliography, 33 



Voyages and Travels, ... 25 



Mammalogy, 25 



Agriculture, 20 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 18 



Helminthology, 18 



Mineralogy, 17 



Ornithology, 17 



Anthropology, 12 



Ichthyology, 10 



Encyclopsedias, 10 



Chemistry, 10 



Physical Science, 9 



Education, 9 



Herpetology, 2 



Medicine, 2 



Miscellaneous, 66 



154 volumes have been bound, and an additional 135 are still 

 in the hands of the binder. 



Assistance furnished me during the summer months has enabled 

 me to have the books and pamphlets on Conchology, Physical 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 321 



Science, Chemistry, Geography and Medicine, together with the 

 Italian journals, added to the card catalogue. The Department 

 of Concholog}' had not been before included in the card entries, 

 because a complete hand catalogue had been prepared just before 

 the card system was adopted, and a similar arrangement of the 

 other departments mentioned has not heretofore been possible for 

 lack of time. I regret to say that, for the same reason, the 

 American and Italian journals only have as yet been completely 

 catalogued, although the hand index to the shelf arrangement, in 

 use for several j-ears back, has been kept roughly up to date, and 

 serves its purpose reasonably well. Everj- effort will be made 

 during the coming year to complete the catalogue of this 

 department. 



A circular which was sent to all our corresponding societies, 

 proposing an exchange of publications by mail, has been answered 

 favorably by a few societies, but the greater number seem to 

 prefer sending but once a year, as heretofore, through the Inter- 

 national Exchange Bureau. This is to be regretted, as early 

 access to the current scientific literature is of the utmost impor- 

 tance to the student. Of course, the many journals for which the 

 Academj^ subscribes, and which are all credited in the accom- 

 panying list to the I. V. Williamson Fund, are received promptly 

 by mail as issued. 



It will be observed that we are indebted to the liberality of 

 Mr. Joseph Jeanes for 83 of the current additions, and to the 

 fund which the Academy has received from Mr. Isaiah Y. 

 Williamson for 431 volumes and continuations of periodicals. 

 These additions are of special value and importance, as the}' have 

 been ordered at the request of the working members, and supply 

 for the most part the matei'ial required for actual investigation. 



A fine portrait in oil of Dr. Joseph Leidy, by TJhle, has been 

 placed on permanent deposit by the Biological Club of Phila- 

 delphia. The amount required for the portrait of Dr. Robert 

 Bridges having been secured, the order was given to Mr. TJhle 

 early in the year. I regret to say the artist's engagements have 

 not enabled him to complete the work, which will, however, be 

 placed in the library at an earlj- date. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Lihrariaru 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator-in- 

 charge, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, as their report for the year ending 

 November 30 : — 



The condition of the Academj^'s collections, although it cannot 

 be stated to be absolutely satisfactory^, is yet fairly good when 

 compared to the condition of similar collections in this country, 

 or even of those pertaining to foreign institutions. Much, how- 

 ever, remains to be done before either the interests of science or 

 of general education will have been thoroughly satisfied, and until 

 more efficient aid is added to the working power of the Acadera}'-, 

 progress towards the obtaining of this satisfied condition m.ust be 

 necessarily'' slow. The great obstacle in the way of the systematic 

 arrangement of the collections has thus far been, and still remains, 

 want of space, a weighty obstacle which must ever remain as such 

 until greater expansion will have been afforded in the construction 

 of an extension to the present building. 



The removal, at a very moderate expense, of the large central 

 platform on the floor of the museum has permitted of a much 

 more satisfactory arrangement of the extensive series of geolog- 

 ical and paljEontological specimens than has heretofore been pos- 

 sible, and has at the same time afforded room for the gathering 

 together and proper exhibition of a special collection — namely, a 

 collection illustrative of the natural products of Penns}- Ivania and 

 New Jersey. In this " local museum," as it may be termed, it is 

 intended to illustrate by actual specimens (as far as is practicable) 

 the entire domains of zoology, palaeontology, geology and min- 

 eralogy, in so far as these departments are, directly connected with 

 the States above mentioned, and thereby ver}'^ materially facilitate 

 the means for self-instruction in natural "historj-, and for making 

 such immediate examinations and comparisons as may be variously 

 demanded. Work in the arrangement of this collection has been 

 progressing favorably, and it is hoped that the entire exhibition 

 will be satisfactoril}^ displayed in the early part of the coming 

 year. 



The most important addition made during the past 3'ear to the 

 Academy's museum is the Vaux collection of minerals and archae- 

 ological implements, to which reference is made in the report of 




1883.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



the special Curator appointed for those collections, Mr. J. Binder, 

 by whom the specimens have been carefully arranged and clas- 

 sified. The other additions to the museum are recorded in the 

 list of donations herewith appended, or are incorporated in the 

 reports of the different sections. 



The Academy has during the year benefited through the 

 services of three Jessup Fund beneficiaries, Messrs. J. Wortmau, 

 A. F. Gentry, and S. F. Aaron, respectively in tlie departments of 

 vertebrate palajoutology, ornithology, and entomology, the first 

 of whom has latterly resigned on receiving the appointment of 

 assistant to the Curator-in-charge. An application for the filling 

 of the present existing vacancy in the Jessup Fund is now in the 



hands of the Curators. 



Joseph Leiby, 



Chairvian of the Board of Curators. 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF THE TREASURER, 



For the Year ending Nov. 30, 1883. 



Dr. 



To Balance fr( m last account % 9^1 -""l 



•' Initiation fees ^"0 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual contributions) 2000 58 



" Life Memberships 50^ ^^ 



" Admissions to Museum ^^"i ^^ 



" Sale of Guide to Museum 40 00 



" t>ale of duplicate books ^ 53 



" Sale of Proceedings, .Journals, etc 430 91 



" Fees, Lectures on Palteontology 136 CO 



" Fees, Lectures on Mineralogy 189 00 



" Wilson Fund. Toward ii^alary of Librarian 300 00 



«' Interest on Money awaiting inves^tment 72i 17 



" Interest on Deposits in Trust Companies 8 94 



" Interest from Mortgage Investment, Joshua T. Jeanes' 



Legacy 1000 CO 



" Publication Fund. Interest on Investments 265 39 



" Barton Fuud. " " " 240 00 



" Life Membership Fund. " " " 132 oO 



" Maintenance Fund. " " " 102 50 



" EckfeldtFund. " " " 66 86 



" Museum Fund. " " " 25 00 



" Stott Legacy Fund. " '* " •• 67 50 



^ ^ $7849 36 




324 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Ca. 



Salaries, Janitors, etc $3358 21 



Printing Proceedings |!601 16") _o. ., 



Binding " 123 25 1 '^* *' 



Repairs 698 17 



Printing and Stationery 85 61 



Binding 58 75 



Freight 31 13 



Plates and Engravings 109 50 



Water Rents for 1883 '. 26 15 



Postage 127 55 



Coal 616 70 



Gas 120 67 



Miscellaneous 457 06 



Newspaper Reports 86 00 



Insurance 30 00 



Ice 7 44 



Trays 18 10 



Alcohol 23 50 



Cases 23 CO 



A. Heilprin, Lectures on Palaeontology 136 fO 



H.C.Lewis " "Mineralogy. 189 00 



Guides to Museum 23 00 



Books 164 57 



Vials 8 25 



Life Memberships translerred to Life Membership Fund.. 500 00 



S"622 77 



Balance, General Account $226 59 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance ) 



Balance per last Statement $1300 00 



Life Memberships transferred to this account 500 00 



Interest on Investments 132 50 



$1932 50 



Transferred to General Account § 132 50 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage at 5 per cent. Interest.. 13(0 00 



5 1432 50 



To Balance for Investment §500 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Publications.) 



Interest on Investment $240 00 



Transferred to General Account 240 CO 



JESSUP FUND. (For Support of Students.) 



Balance, last Statement $711 67 



Interest on Investments 560 CO 



$1271 67 

 Disbursed 676 66 



Balance „.,...... $595 01 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Balance per last Statement ^2108 14 



Interest on Investments 102 50 



$2210 64 



Transferred to General Account ? 102 50 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage at 5 per cent. Interest.. 2100 00 



2202 50 



To Balance for Investment $8 14 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



Balance, last Statement $1214 70 



Income from Investment? 350 69 



5)1565 39 



Transferred to General Account $265 89 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage at 5 per cent. Interest... 1300 00 



$1565 39 



MRS. STOTT FUND. (For Publications.) 



Balance, last Statement $13(0 00 



Interest from Investments 67 50 



$1367 50 



Transferred to General Account $ 67 50 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage at & per cent. Interest.. 1300 00 



$1367 50 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance, last Statement $433 48 



Rents collected 835 27 



Ground-rents collected 1026 28 



$2295 03 



For Books $814 60 



Binding 76 25 



Repairs to Properties 229 68 



Taxes and Water Reots 241 97 



Transfer of Property to Academy 69 05 



Collecting 93 07 



$1524 62 



Balance $770 41 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance overdrawn per last Statement $232 89 



Dulau & Co., London 51 88 



B. Westermann & Co., Books 162 78 



Transferred to General Account 300 00 



$747 55 

 Income from Investments 525 00 



Balance overdrawn 222 55 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



ECKFELDT FUND. 



Balance, last Statement ^906 86 



Interest from Investments 100 00 



$1066 86 



Transferred to General AccouF.t $ 66 86 



Investment in Bond pnd Mortgage ai 5 per cent. Interest... 1000 00 



$1066 86 



BOOK ACCOUNT. (Donations from Jos Jeanes, Esq.) 



Balance, last Statement $'.39 83 



Loss cairh paid for Books 302 70 



Balance $37 13 



BINDING ACCOUNT. (Donations from Jos. Jeanes, Esq.) 



Balance, last Statement $277 85 



Less cish paid for Binding 277 85 



INSTRUCTION FUND. 



Balance, last Statement $60 00 



Less cash paid lor Cards 4 Oo 



Balance $56 00 



MUSEU.\I FUND. 



Balance, last Statement $1000 00 



Interest from Investments 25 00 



$1025 00 



Transferred to General Account $ 25 00 



Investment in Bo:id and Mortgage at 5 per cent. Interest.. 1000 00 



$1025 00 



WILLIAM S. VAUX COLLECTION FUND. 



Cash received from Estate of Wm. S. Vaux, deceased $iroo CO 



Interest from Investments 1000 00 



George Vaux, for Mineral Case 50 00 



Cash received from iSale of Five Cases 250 00 



52300 00 



Cash paid for Cases $1469 60 



Cash paid for Miscellaneous Expenses 401 66 



1871 16 



Balance $428 81 



Also received the legacy of William S. Vaux, deceased, which was paid in 

 ten bonds for one thousand dollars each (total, ten thousand dollars), of the 

 seven per cent. Register* d Mortgage Bonds of " The Philadelphia and Reading 

 Coal and Iron Company." The interest of these Bonds to be applied to the 

 use of the " William S. Vaux Collection Fund." 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



Puring the year eighteen meetings were held, with an average 

 attendance of abont fifteen persons. 



The annual exhibition was held April 5, and was a success as 

 to the number of visitors and in regard to the improvement noticed 

 in general microscopical manipulation. 



The following gentlemen became contributors to the Section 

 during the jear : — Dr. L. Brewer Hall, Dr. Henry Beates,Dr. Max 

 Bochroch, Dr. Charles L. Mitchell, Dr. M. B. Hartzell, Dr. Arthur 

 Wilson, Dr. William R. Hoch, Mr. John F. Lewis. 



The following resignations were accepted : — Dr. Charles Turn- 

 bull, Dr. S. H. Guilford. 



The meetings have been well supplied with material for discus- 

 sion, and an increased interest has been manifested during the 

 year. 



The following are some of the more important subjects brought 

 to the notice of the Section : — 



Dr. J. G. Hunt. — Communication upon Diatomes, Desmids, 

 Sponges, Carnivorous Plants, Mosses and on the Preparation 

 of Animal and Vegetable Tissues. 



Dr. Charles Mitchell. — A New Freezing Microtome. Also a 

 paper upon Hfematoxylon Staining. 



Dr. L. B. Hall. — Communication upon Spirog3"ra. 



Dr. G. A. Rex. — Upon the Trichias, with two rare forms not 

 found before in North America. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Robert J. Hess, M. D., 



Becorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that of the various papers ypon the subject of the Mollusca, accepted 

 for publication by the Academy during the past year, the most 

 important was one by Mr. Andrew J. Garrett, of Tahiti, upon 

 " The Land Sliells of the Societj^ Islands," which is now in press 

 and will soon appear as a part of the Journal. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



It is with sincere regret that we record the death of our valued 

 member, Mr. Charles F. Parker, which occuned September 7, 

 1883. Mr. Parker was one of the founders of the Section, and a 

 ver}'^ large portion of the leisure time at his command was devoted 

 to its interests. In his death the Academy and Section have lost 

 a faithful and efficient officer, and the members a worthy associate. 



Our Conservator, Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., repoits fort^'-seven 

 donations of shells from twenty- -nine different sources, all of which 

 have been labeled and arranged in the museum. " These aggre- 

 gate 1097 traj's and labels, containing 4150 specimens, being a 

 larger accession than for several previous years." Including them, 

 the Conchological collection embraces 41,322 trays and tablets, 

 with 145,791 specimens. 



It may be stated as an illustration of the rapid growth of our 

 museum that about one-third of these specimens have been received 

 since the removal of the Academy' to its present building in 1876. 

 Among the donations may be particularized as important, the large 

 collections of New Caledonian, French and Eastern European 

 shells, generousl}^ given b}^ Messrs. E. Marie, A. Locard, A. Mon- 

 tandon, and S. Clessin ; also the fine collection from Mauritius and 

 Madagascar, purchased from Mr. V. Robillard. Several other 

 purchases of good shells were made, partl^"^ with the income of the 

 Museum Fund, partly by money received from the sale of our publi- 

 cations. To obtain all purchasable novelties and desiderata Avould 

 require a fund yielding an income of not less than five hundred 

 dollars per annum ; some rare opportunities were declined during 

 the past 3^ear for want of means. 



Inadequate as our resources are, our progress has been such as 

 to receive recentl}^ the commendation of the distinguished editor 

 of the "Journal de Conchyliologie," who writes of the " immense 

 bibliographical and conchological collections of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, scientific treasures to which 

 each 3^ear adds considerably, and which constitute working 

 facilities of the first order." The re-arrangeraent of the museum, 

 in connection with the publication of the monographs of the 

 genera in the " Manual of Conchologj^/' steadily progresses. The 

 Golumhellidse and Conidse have been carefully studied and largely 

 re-labeled during the year ; the Pleurotomidee are now undergoing 

 revision. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



329 



The officers of the Section are : — 



Director, . . 

 Vice-Director, 

 Secretary, . 

 Recorder, . 

 Conservator, 

 Librarian, . 

 Treasurer, . 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 John Ford. 

 John H. Redfield. 

 S. Raymond. Roberts. 

 Geo. W. Try on, Jr. 

 Edw, J. Nolan. 

 Wm. L. Mactier. 



On behalf of the Section, 



S. "Raymond Roberts, 



Becorder. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the j^ear past the Entomological Section has held ten 

 meetings, at which the attendance has averaged six members, 

 exclusive of visitors. 



During the year one member has resigned, and one died. No 

 new members have been elected, and the Section at present 

 numbers twenty-one members. 



The Section has experienced an irreparable loss in the decease 

 of its late Director, Dr. John L. LeConte. His long services in 

 the advancement of entomology in this country' are too well 

 known to require any rehearsal here. At the annual meeting of 

 the American Entomological Societ}^, it was ordered that a memo- 

 rial of Dr. LeCoute be prepared, and published in the Society's 

 Transactions. 



The Transactions of the American Entomological Society, vol. 

 X, containing 344 pages and 9 plates, has been published. The 

 Proceedings of the Entomological Section continue to be pub- 

 lished and issued in connection with the Transactions, and 

 contain the communications made at the monthly meetings. 

 Members and others are thus enabled to place upon recoixl such 

 advanced descriptions as they may desire. 



Eleven written communications have been presented for publi- 

 cation, and, having been favorably arted upon, will be duly 

 published. 



22 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1883. 



The Curator reports the following additions to the cabinets :- 



From Dr. W. L. Abbott. 



Diurnal Lepidoptera, . . 237 specimens, 40 species. 



Nocturnal Lepidoptera, 



Odonata, 



S. F. Aaron. 



Orthoptera, . 

 Diptera, 

 Hemiptera, . 

 Pseudoneuroptera, 

 Neuroptera, 



E. M. Aaron. 

 Neuroptera, 

 Pseudoneuroptera, 

 Odonata, 

 Diurnal Lepidoptera, 



G. B. Cresson. 



Diptera, 

 E. T. Cresson. . 



Hymenoptera, 



species not determined. 



Additions were also made at various times by Dr. H. Skinner, 

 who has given no list of the same. 



Through the attention bestowed upon it by Mr. E. T. Cresson, 

 the collection of Hj^menoptera is in a specially good condition, 

 and is beyond doubt the best in America. 



The cabinets have been examined and disinfected, so that they 

 now present a thoroughly good appearance. This is a part of the 

 Conservator's labors in connection with entomological collections 

 that always requires much care and time. Great assistance has 

 been rendered to the Conservator by Mr. S. E. Aaron, who has 

 devoted much care to the specimens. The same gentleman has 

 also helped greatly in the arrangement of the Entomological 

 library. 



By resolution passed November 9, the Section expressed its 

 hearty accord with the Curator of the Academj^ in the formation 



200 



11,677 



75 



number of 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



of a local museum, and directed the Conservator to render such 

 assistance as laid in his power. 



At the meeting held December 10, the following officers were 

 elected for the ensuing j-ear : — 



Director, .... George H. Horn, M. D. 

 Vice-Director, . . . Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D. 

 Recorder, .... James H. Ridings. 

 Conservator, . . . Eugene M. Aaron. 

 Publication Committee, . J. Frank Knight, • 



H. Skinner. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



JaxMes H. Ridings, 



JRecorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Yice-Director of the Botanical Section has pleasure ia-. 

 reporting to the Academ}^ that the activity and prosperity of the 

 Section heretofore noted, still continue. Tlie growth of the 

 Herbarium is fully detailed in the report of the Conservator sub- 

 mitted herewith. Meetings have been held regularly every month, . 

 except during the summer recess, and much interesting matter 

 communicated and papers presented, some of the more important 

 of which have appeared in the general Proceedings of the Academy. 

 The Section is whollj^ free of debt, and has a surplus in its treasury,, 

 and has at present thirty-two members on the roll. 

 The officers elected to serve during 1884 are: — 

 Director, . . . Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger., 

 Vice- Director, . . Thomas Meehan. 

 Recording Secretary, . P. Lamson Scribner. 



Isaac C. Martindale. 



Cor. Secretary ,\ 

 Treasurer, ) 

 Conservator, . . John H. Redfield. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator'' s Report. — The Conservator reports that during the- 

 3-ear 1883, now closing, the donations of plants to the Academj-'s 

 Herbarium have been 2868 species. It is estimated that over 900 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



of these are new to the collection, adding 72 genera not before 

 represented. The North American and Mexican species received 

 were 1438 ; from the West Indies and Sonth America were received 

 233 ; and from the Old World 1197. Referring to tlie appended 

 list of donations for details, we ma}' here call attention to the 

 large and valuable additions contributed by Dr. Gray, of the 

 Cambridge Herbarium, representing tlie floras of every quarter of 

 the globe ; a small collection from Australia, presented by Baron 

 von Miiller, through Mr. Meehan — nearW all of its species new to 

 us ; a collection of about 70 species of interesting Patagonian 

 plants, made bj- Mr. William Bell, of the Transit of Yenus expe- 

 dition, and presented bj- him through Mr. Charles E. Smith; 

 upwards of 400 species of plants from various regions, presented 

 bj' Mr. Canby ; and 51 species of Scandinavian Lichens, mostly 

 new to the collection, presented by Dr. J. U. Eckfeldt. 



These have all been poisoned, catalogued, placed in papers and 

 distributed in their proper places in the Herbarium. This neces- 

 sary work has left little time to devote to the improvement of the 

 condition of the Herbarium generally, jet some progress has been 

 made in that respect. Provisional lists of species have been con- 

 tinued as far as the order Borraginaceas in the general Herbarium. 

 The Endogens have been re-arranged to conform to the order 

 adopted by Bentham and Hooker in the concluding part of their 

 " Genera Plantarum," that vast monument of careful, patient, 

 anah'tic work. And some small progress has been made in tlie 

 much needed task of mounting the specimens of the North 

 American Herbarium. 



Heretofore the Academy's collection of plants has received the 

 benefit of a large amount of faithful and intelligent labor from its 

 late Curator-in-charge, Mr. Charles F. Parker, but his disal)ility 

 during the early part of the year, followed by his death on the 

 7th September, 1883, has deprived us of his services ; and now the 

 Conservator realizes, more than ever before, how much we have 

 owed to Mr. Parker's diligent zeal and skilful hands. In his 

 absence we have been indebted to the aid of Messrs. Burk, Meehan, 

 Scribner and Brinton, who have each rendered efficient service. 

 Mr. Scribner, though absent several months on explorations in 

 Montana for the Northern Transcontinental Snrve}', has continued 

 his critical work upon the grasses of our collection, and has made 

 some progress in the work of mounting them. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



It is ver}^ desirable tliat the Herbarium of the Academy should 

 be in such condition as will make it most accessible and useful to 

 botanists who may visit it during the meeting in this eit}- next year 

 of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and 

 of the British Association ; and though it will be impossible to do 

 all that should be done in the brief intervening period, it is hoped 

 that much may be accomplished towards this end, and that good 

 progress may be made in the mounting of at least the North 

 American plants. 



John H. Redfield, 



December 10, 1883. Conservator. 



REPOKT OF THE MIXERALOGICAL AXD GEO- 

 LOGICAL SECTION. 



Meetings of the Section have been held regularly during the 

 year, the attendance averaging from eight to ten. The discus- 

 sions have been more upon geological questions than upon 

 mineralogical, owing to the interest excited by the Geological 

 Survey of the State. The most important event to the Academy 

 in connection with mineralogy has been the accession of the Yaux 

 collection, and its arrangement by Mr. Jacob Binder, whose ser- 

 vices in that matter have been of exceeding value. 



The officers of the Section are : — 



Director, .... Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director, . . . W. W. Jefferis, Esq. 



Recorder and Secretary , . Dr. A. E. Foote. 



Conservator, .... Prof. H. Carvill Lewis. 



Treasurer, .... John Ford. 



Respect full}' submitted, 



Theodore D. Rand, 



Director. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALAEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Palaeontology respectfully begs 

 to report that during the past year be has delivered a course 

 of twenty-six lectures on ph3'siographic geology and paljBon- 

 tolog}', which course, extending through the months of Januar3^, 

 Februar}^ and March, as in previous years, was attended in prin- 

 cipal part by teacliers belonging to the various institutions of 

 learning of the city. 



He further reports that the collections under his immediate 

 supervision have been materially" improved through identifications 

 and re-determinations incident to study, and this more particularly 

 in the special fields of Tertiary and Cretaceous palaeontology ; 

 in the latter department the institution is largelj* indebted to 

 Prof. R. P. Whitfield, of New York city, for numerous determi- 

 nations of the fossils belonging to the State of New Jersey. 

 The additions to the palaeontological department of the Academy's 

 museum, which are recorded elsewhere, have been inconsiderable, 

 but it is hoped that local exchanges will shortlv be instituted, 

 ■whereby valuable accessions to an already ver}" extensive collec- 

 tion will be insured. 



A course of lectures, beginning with about themiddle week of 

 January, and embracing a discussion of the physical history and 

 palitontology of the States of Pennsjdvania and New Jerse}-, has 

 been arranged for the coming year. 



Yer}" respectfull}^, ' 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Palseontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MI^^ERALOGY. 



The Professor of Mineralogj' respectfully reports that during 

 the past year a course of lectures, upon the mineralogy, lithology 

 and geolog}^ of Philadelphia and vicinity, has been delivered, 

 alternately in the lecture room of the Academy and in the field, 

 The course treated of mineralogy in its relation to lithology and 

 geolog3',and of geology, both structuraland historical, with special 

 reference to the formations in the vicinity of the city. The 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



field lectures were given at various points, where the strata, with 

 their enclosed minerals or fossils, could be studied in place. 

 Owing to the exceptional geological position of tlie city, excur- 

 sions could be made to all the principal geological formations, 

 from the Laurentian to the Quaternary, inclusive. Among the 

 places visited were the mineral localities of Philadelphia, Bucks 

 and Delaware counties, the iron-mines and marble-quarries of Mont- 

 gomer}' county, the metalliferous veins and the Triassic rocks of the 

 Perkiomen Creek and elsewhere, the marl-pits of New Jersey, the 

 Palaeozoic strata along the Lehigh, and the coal regions of Mauch 

 Chunk. The attendance averaged about forty, about half of whom 

 were ladies. Reports of these lectures, as published in a city 

 newspaper, are herewith deposited in the library of the Academy. 



The niineralogical collection has increased steadih*, as s'lown 

 by the annexed list of donations. The magnificent collection of 

 the late William S. Yaux, Esq., referred to in last year's report, 

 and more particularly described in the report of its Curator, 

 has been deposited as a special collection, under certain conditions, 

 in a room fitted up for the purpose, and is a most valuable and 

 noteworthy addition to the collections of the Academy. 



A local collection of Pennsylvania minerals is now bein^ 

 formed on the lower floor of the museum, in connection with a 

 systematic displa}^ of the natural history of the State, and the 

 aid of collectors is hereby asked to make this collection as com- 

 plete as possible. The arrangement adopted for it is that of M. 

 Adam, of Paris (as followed by Descloiseaux, Pisani, etc.), since 

 it serves better the purpose of public instruction than the classi- 

 fication of Prof. Dana, according to which the general collection 

 is arranged. 



In the hope that the generous friends .of the Academy will 

 assist in supplying a much-felt want, attention is again drawn to 

 the urgent need of scientific instruments ^goniometer, litholoo-ieal 

 apparatus, etc.), both for instruction and for original investigation 

 in this department. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. Carvill Lewis, 



Professor of Mineralogy. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WM. S. VAUX 

 COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the Wm. S. Yaux Collections respectfully reports 

 to the Council of the Academj^ of Natural Sciences that the sys- 

 tematic arrangement of the collections has been completed. A 

 catalogue has yet to be made and a portion of the labeling finished. 

 The entire collection is now in a condition to be opened for inspec- 

 tion and study. 



It may be hereafter found desirable to rearrange some of the 

 specimens, so that those from the same locality be brought into 

 closer proximity ; but this can be attended to hereafter. 



On the 15th of August the arrangement and classification were 

 commenced. The Council of the Academy having made an 

 appropriation to defray necessary expenses, Mr. G. Howard Parker, 

 to whom acknowledgment is due for valuable services, was engaged 

 as an assistant, and acted in that capacity until the 15th of Sep- 

 tember. 



For the expenses of arrangement, reference is made to the report 

 of the Treasurer of the Academy-. 



The collection has been arranged in seven upright cases, marked 

 from A to G, and thirty-nine horizontal cases, numbered from 1 

 to 39. They are made of Honduras mahogany, each having four 

 drawers, securel}' fastened with Yale locks. They are as nearl3'^ 

 dust-proof as possible, and the workmanship is entirel}^ satisfactory. 



The archaeological part of the collection occupies five of the 

 upright cases, marked from A to E, and five of the horizontal, 

 marked from 1 to 5. The specimens number (counting arrow- 

 heads and small implements bj' tra3^s as one piece) two thousand 

 four hundred and forty -five (2445), arranged in groups according 

 to locality. They consist of stone axes, hatchets, celts, hammers, 

 pestles, balls, shovels, hoes, arrow-, spear- and lance-heads, dis- 

 coidal or Chunkee stones, ceremonial implements, copper and 

 bronze axes, mound pottery; Indian, Mexican, Peruvian, Costa 

 Rican, Roman and Carthagenian antiquities. 



The localities represented are : Ital}', Switzerland, Germany, 

 France, Sweden, Denmark and Ireland, and America, from Maine 

 to Florida and from the Atlantic to the Pacific coast, with Mexico, 

 Peru and Costa Rica; with a few implements of the Esquimaux and 

 the South Sea Islanders. They include specimens of the palseo- 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



3.3T 



lithic and neolithic periods, of tiie work of the cave and lake 

 dwellei's, the mound builders, ancient Mexicans, Peruvians and 

 Indians of America, and from the kitchen-middens of Denmark. 

 The mineralogical part of the collection has been arranged and 

 classified under the system of J. D. Dana, 5th edition, 1869. It 

 embraces 5302 specimens, representing 466 species or groups, all 

 mounted in trays and labeled. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Jacob Binder, 



Curator. 



The election of Officers for 1884 was held, with the following 

 results : — 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Eecording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary , 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, . . . 



Finance Committee, 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

 Thomas Meehan, 

 Rev. Henry C. :\[cCook, D. D. 

 Edward J. Xolan, M. D. 

 George H. Horn, M. D. 

 William C. Henszej-, 

 Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., 

 Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 

 Angelo Heilprin. 

 George Y. Shoemaker, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 William L. Mactier, 

 George A. Koenig, Ph. D. 

 Isaac C. Martindale, 

 Clarence S. Bement, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 George Y. Shoemaker. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1883. 



MEMBERS. 



January 30. — Jolan B. Deaver, M. D., G. Howard Parker, 

 Clarence R. Clagtiorn, F. A. Genth, Jr., Jacob "Wortman, H. T. 

 Cresson, William L. Springs, Emily G. Hunt. 



February 27. — Walter Rogers Furness. 



April 24. — Daniel E. Hughes, M. D., Edwin S. Balch. 



May 29. — N. Archer Randolph, M. D,, J. Reed Conrad, M. D., 

 Spencer Trotter, M. D. 



August 28. — Charles Peabody. 



September 25. — Henry F. Claghorn, Emanuele Fronani. 



October 30. — S Mason McCollin, Francis A. Cunningham. 



November 27. — Mrs. William M. EUicott, George L. Knowles, 

 Ferdinand McCann, Lewis E. Levy, J. Alexander Savage. 



CORRESPONDENTS, 



May 29. — Ai-nould Locard, of L3'ons ; Frederick W, Hutton, of 

 Christchurch, N. Z. ; C. E. Beddome, of Hobart Town, Tasmania. 



October 30. — Eugene A. Rau, of Bethlehem, Pa. 



November 27. — Marchese di Monterosato, of Palermo ; E. Marie, 

 of Paris ; H. J. Carter, of Burleigh-Salterton, England. 




1383.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 339 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



December 1, 1€82, to December 1, 1883. 



Abch.eology, Antiquities, Implements, etc. — H. Skinner. Fragment of 



terracotta head from Mexico. 

 H. C. Lewis. PalsBolithic implements from the glacial gravels at Trenton, 



N. J., collected by C. C. Abbott. 

 W. S. Jones. Two Indian carved images from Alaska. 

 T. D. Eand. Spanish water-jar from Barcelona; 2 Peruvian water-jugs ; 



Catawba Indian pottery (1 piece); fragments of pottery from Lancaster 



County, Pa 

 T. R. Peale. Breech-clout, Oahu, Sandwich Islands. 

 J. M. Willcox. Two Indian implements from Brevard County, Florida. 

 Specimen of Wedgewood ware, designed by J. Flaxman, of London. 

 Mammalia (recent and fossil.) — J. Leidy. Molar tooth of Equus major (?), 



found near Keenville, N. Y. 

 J. Swartzle Jaw fragments of Platygomts vetus Leidy, type of species from 



Mifflin County, Pa. 

 Mr. Magee. Felis concolor, from Colorado. 

 J. Jeanes. Two skulls, and the greater portion of the skeleton of Platygonus 



compressus, from northern New York. 

 J. Wortman. Mus decumanus (disarticulated skeleton). 

 J. C. Willson. Mus musculus (skeleton). 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Copra hircus (incomplete skeleton) ; Vulpes 



lift oral is ; Felis pardaUs (skull); Fumatopius Stelleri (skull). 

 BiSDS.— T. C. Craig. Cape pigeon (Daption Capensis), from Cape Horn, S. A. 

 A. F. Gentry. Skeleton of parrot [Chrysotis albifrons), from Cuba, W. I. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Vulturine Guinea fowl (^Numida vulturina), 



Africa; Buteo borealis (skeleton). 

 Reptiles and Amphibians (recent and fossil). — 0. C. Marsh. Cast of Ptero- 

 dactyl {Ramphorhynchus phyllitrus). from Eichsfadt, Bavaria. 

 M. Smiley. Tooth of Crocodilus fastigiatus, from the Eocene of Virginia. 

 .J. L. Wortman. Hyla versicolor, Tropidonolus leberis. 

 H. C. McCook. Horned frog [Phrynosoma coronata), from California. 

 Fishes (recent and fossil). — E. Zeitler. Box fish (^Diodon sp). 

 S. Trotter. Skull of Prionotus. 



A. Wenrich. Fossil fish (Diplomys'us analis), from Wyoming Territory. 

 M. S Quay. Tarpum {Megalops ihrissoides). from Florida. 



N. Spang. Pharyngeal bone and teeth of Mylocyprinus robustus, from the Post- 

 pliocene of Idaho. 

 Abtxcdlates (Crustaceans, insects, arachnids, and myriapods, recent and 



fossil). — J. Jeanes. Camban/s primsevus, from the Eocene of Wyoming 



Territory ; shrimp ( /Eger spinipes) ; 5 Libellulm and 2 Hemiptera, from the 



lithographic slate of Solenhofen, Bavaria. 

 J. Harley. Belostomn grandis, hemipterous insect. 



J. Ford. Crab [Gelasimus pugilator), 3 specimens, from Atlantic City, X. J. 

 T. Meehan. Goose barnacle (Lepas anatifa), on sea-weed, from Killinos 



Island, Alaska. 

 T. L. Casey. 187 specimens of unidentified Coleoptera, from Wellington and 



Cape Town, S. Africa. 

 MoLLuscA (recent). — John Ford. Bulimvs Patasensis (Patas, Peru); Cypriea 



helvola (no locality) ; Turbinella scolymu« (locality ?) ; two species of marine 



shells ; Crepidula glauca (Cape May, N. J.). 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge. Achatinella simularis (Waimea), 



Pease collection. 

 S. Clessin. 20 species of land shells, from Eastern Europe. 

 A. E. Bash. 17 species of marine and fresh-water shells, from California. 

 W. D. Hartman. Helix Mozambicensis (near Lake Nyassa, Africa) ; 1 species 



of land shell. 

 A. Montandon. 64 species of land and fresh-water shells, from the Carpathian 



^lountains of Moldavia, and from Bucharest, Wallachia. 

 A. Locard. 225 species of land and fresh-water shells (1600 specimens), from 



France. 

 F. G. Sanborn. 2 species of marine shells, from Martinique. 

 W. W. Calkins. Conus testudinarius, from the West Indies. 

 C. R. Orcutt. 3 species of marine shells, from California, and Lower California ; 



10 species of marine shells, from San Diego, (al ; 4 species of marine shells. 

 W. Bell. Trojyhon liratus, T. crhpus, T. Geversianus, and Pecten, species, from 



Santa Cruz River, Patigonia. 

 Q. H. Parker. 10 species of marine shells, from near Galveston, Texas ; 6 



species of marine shells, from near Galveston, Texas; 2 species of marine 



shells. 

 Mrs. A. E. Bush. Helix, from San Pedro, Cal. ; 13 species of marine shells. 

 F. R. Latchford. 2 species of fresh-water shells, from Ottawa, Can. 



F. W. Hutton. 9 species of marine shells, from New Zealand. 

 A. Garrett. 84 species of land shells, from the Society Islands. 



A. A. Hinkley. Unio camptodon, Washington Co., 111. 



R. E. C. Stevens. 3 speeies of marine shells, from the Gulf of California and 



Japan ; 2 species of fresh- water shells. 

 M. L. Leach. 11 species of land and fresh- water shells. 

 T. Bland. 6 species of land and marine shells. 

 T. R. Peale. 1 species of marine shell. 



G, W. Tryon, Jr. 8 species of marine shells. 

 J. Willcox. 6 species of fresh-water shells. 



C. Headly. 6 species of land and fresh-water shells. 



B. H. Wright. 1 species of fresh-water shell. 

 L. H. Streng. 1 species of fresh-water shell. 



E. Marie. 81 species of marine, land, and fresh-water shells, from New Cale- 

 donia; 28 species of land, marine, and fresh- water shells, from New 

 Caledonia; 151 species of land, marine, and fresh-water shells, from New 

 Caledonia, and the Islands Mayotte, Arjouan, and Nossi-Be. 



M. L. Leach. 5 species of land and fresh-water shells, from Michigan. 



P. C. Tucker. 4 species of marine shells, from Texas. 



B. Sharp. Semperian preparations of i^mi/^ r^/ieron/yer and Cyclosioma elegans. 



Conchological Section, A. N. S. 2 species of Triquelra (Santarem, Brazil) ; 63 

 species of land, marine, and fresh-water shells, new to the ooUection ; 33 

 species of land and fresh-water shells from the islands of Nossi-Be and 

 Mayotte, collected by E. Marie ; 102 species of land, marine, and fresh- 

 water shells; 215 species of land, marine, and fresh-water shells, from 

 Mauritius, collected by M. V. Robillard. 



MoLLUSCA (fossil.) — W. Bell. Ostrea Patagonica, Turritella Patagonica, Cardita 



Patagonica, Tellinoides oblonga, Venus meridwnalis, Dosinia sp., Lucina sp. — 



Probably Eocene of Patagonia (Santa Cruz River). 

 J. Leidy. Orthoceras sp. From the Carboniferous of Fayetteville, Arkansas. 

 J. D. Conley. Nucula Randalli, from the Hamilton group of Madison Co., N. Y. 

 J. T. Rothrock. Miocene Coquina (with Pecten Madisonius, P. Jeffersonius, 



Crepidula, Balanus, etc.), from Jamestown Island, James River, Va., and 



from the James River, S. of Point of Shoals Lighthouse. 

 P. C Tucker. Two tpecies of probably Post-pliocene shells, from Galveston 



Bay, Texas. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 341 



Worms, Echinodekms, Ccelentkbates and Sponges (recent and fossil). — C. R. 



Orcutt. 3 species of SerpuloG. 

 J. Jeane«. 4 sponges, from Florida. 

 J. Leidy. SponyiUa lacustris, from the Schuylkill River, Philadelphia. 



E. Potts. Spongilla lactistroides, from W. Branch of Chester Creek, Del. Co., Pa. 

 J. L. Curry. Leptogorgia virgulata (locality ?j. 



J. T Rothrock. Columnaria sexradiata , from the Miocene of James River, Va. 



C. Morris. Tuhiilaria indimsa, from Atlantic City, N. J. 



Botany (recent). — Wm. M. Canby. 403 species pLints from Europe, Syria, 

 Madeira, South Arica, North Africa and Australia; 30 species collected by 

 himself in Montana, in August, 1882, of which 9 were new to the Her- 

 barium; lowers of Bhododendro7i Vaseiji, irom plant brought from .Jackson 

 Co.. N. C. ; roots and stem of Dryas Drumvio7idii Hk., from sand-bars of 

 Blnckfoot R., Montana. 



Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge Herbarium. 435 species collected by Cosson and 

 others in Europe, Western Asia and N. Africa {Reliquix Mailleanie) ; 77 spe- 

 cies from the Province of Minas Geraes, Brazil ; 24 species of Cyperaceae, col- 

 lect^'d by Dr. Schweinfurth in tropical Africa; 40 species from China, Feejee 

 Islands. Ecuador, etc. (from Kew Herbarium) ; 234 species of plants collected 

 by Havard. Palmer, Schaftner and others, in the northern provinces of 

 Mexico and in western Texas ; 29 s-pecies of Bosa, from Herb, of J. G. Baker, 

 Europenn or cultivated at Kew Garden ; 48 species of Arctic plants, collected 

 in Lapland, etc., by C Flnhault and others, in 1878 and 187^- ; 102 species 

 plants from Morocco and Algeria; 60 species Cuban plants, mostly collected 

 by Rugel in 1849. 



Dr. Sereno Watson, of Cambridge. 69 species collected by him in 1880 in 

 Montana, Idaho and Washington Territoiies. 



Baron F. von Miiller, of Melbourne, Australia. 52 species of rare Australian 

 plants. 



F. L. Scribner, of Philadelphia. Diplachne vtscida Scribn. (aew). Sporobolus 

 dfpanperatus, Arizona, and Fe.ftuca rubra L., vav. grandiflora Haeckel, Sweden. 



Geo. W. Bolbtein, of Belvidere, N. J. 35 species plants from Mitchell Co., 

 Texas. 



Thomas Meehan. 7 species Cactacese, mostly from the western regions of the 

 U. S. ; specimens of For sg( hi a siif-pensa Wahl., and F. viridissima Lindl., from 

 seeds of same parent, showing them to be forms of one species ; Hesperaloe 

 yuccspfolia, cult, at Augusta, Ga. ; Bletia aphylla Nutt, Austin, Texas: Proto- 

 coccus nivalis (Red Snow), collected on summits of Sierra Nevada, California, 

 by Dr. Harkness, of San Francisco; Lewisia rediviva Pursh, Nevada; Proto- 

 myces vitico'a, Ellis, n. sp. of fungus on roots of grapevine, Chestnut Hill. 



John H. Redfield. 255 species plams collected in Western States and Territo- 

 ries by Pringle, Parish Bros, Brandegee, etc. ; 551 species plants collected 

 in northern provinces of Mexico and on the Texan border, by Parry and 

 Palmer. 



Wm. Bell, through Charles E. Smith. 80 species plants from Santa Cruz R., 

 Patagonia, collected on Transit of Venus Expedition. 



Wm. H. Dougherty. Fruit of Vanilla planifolia, Mexico. 



J. DonneU Smith, of Baltimore. 21 species ferns collected in Jamaica, by J. 

 Hart, mostly new to the Herbarium. 



Aubrey H. Smith. Three species of Californian plants new to the Herbarium, 

 collected by John Eaton Leconte. 



Thos. Bland, of N. Y. t apsule and seeds of 5 species West Indian plants. 



Isaac Burk. 22 species of introduced plants, mostly from ballast ground, 

 Phila., and Ihlianthus giganUus L., var., from Cape May. 



Chas. Miller. Bumex Berlandieri, Arizona; fruit of wild Vanilla, Mexico. 



Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. Wood of the Tomalo, from Smioa. 



Isaac C. Martindale. Ell's's 10th Century of N. American Fungi ; Dalea Ordise 

 Gray, a new species from Arizona; pirt of the trunk of a white birch 

 branching into two limbs, afterwards reuniting into one. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Amer. Phil. Society. Specimens of Selaginella lepidophylla, from Mexico. 

 Prof. Jos. P. Lesley. Grains of wheat and barley, found germinating in a 



block of ice 

 J. A. McNiel, of Binghampton, N. Y. Capsule of Sand-box tree (^Hura crepitans), 



from Panama, S. A. 

 Dr. John W. Eckfeldt. 51 species of Scandinavian Lichens, named — most of 



them new to the Academy's collection, 

 Thos. Meehan and John H. Redfield. 148 species plants collected in Arizona 



by H. H. Rusby, in 1883. 

 Prof. H. Carvill Lewis. Radical leaves of Argyroxiphium Sandvicense, etc., 



from Sandwich Islands. 

 J. G. Lemmon, Oakland, California. Tageles Lemmoni Gr., a new species from 



Arizona. 

 Col. Robert W. Furnas. Brownville, Neb. Wood of Madura aurantiaca, taken 



from far below the surface of the ground, supposed to have been buried 200 



years, and estimated from its annual rings to be from a tree 300 years old. 



Also, wood of Saliz cordata, var. vestita. 



Botany (fossil). — J. Jeanes. Populus latior, var. rotundata, P. latior, var. cordi' 

 folia, Acer trilobatum, Cinnamomum Scheuchzeri, Salix tenera, Podogonium 

 Lyellianum, P. Knorii, and Carpolithus pruniformis, from the Molasse of 

 Oeningen. 



W. Bell. Silicified wood, from the Eocene (?) of Patagonia (Los Missiones). 



Minerals. — Joseph Leidy. Axinite, Bethlehem, Pa. ; Argentiferous Wavellite, 

 Leadville, Col. ; Limonite, pseudomorph after Gryphea, MuUica Hill, N. J.; 

 Lepidolite, Auburn. Me. ; Quartz with Pyrophyllite, Hot Springs, Ark. ; 

 Cookeite with Rubellite and Quartz, Mt. Mica, Me.; Muscovite, Chester Co., 

 Pa.; Muscovite with Biotite crystals, Macon Co.,N. C. ; Tourmaline in 

 Muscovite, Mt. Mica, Me. ; Green-black Tourmaline in Museovite, Mt. 

 Mica, Me. ; Serpentine with crystals of Chrysotile, Easton, Pa. ; Green 

 Tourmaline with nodule of Achroite, Paris, Me. ; Rose Tourmaline, Mt. 

 Mica, Me. ; Rubellite, Mt. Mica. Me. ; Heliotrope, India ; Green Tourmaline 

 with Lepidolite, Auburn, Me. ; Rhodophyllite, Texas, Pa. ; Kaolinite, Summit 

 Hill, Pa. ; Muscovite, showing 30 rays, Canada ; Muscovite with hexagonal 

 markings, Georgia ; Homogeneous anthracite, and anthracite presenting a 

 fused appearance, found in association with quartz crystals, in cavities of 

 the calciferous Sandstone, Herkimer Co., N. Y. ; Rubellite, and Rubellite 

 passing into Indicolite, Mt. Mica, Me ; Green Tourmaline passing imo 

 fibrous Rubellite, Hebron, Me. ; Allophane, Polk Co., Tenn. 



W. H. Jones. Garnets, from Stikine River, Alaska. 



Theodore D. Rand. Quartzite with (organic ?) markings, Radnor, Pa. ; 

 Asbestos and Serpentine, Radnor Station, Pa. ; Chrysotile, Radnor Station, 

 Pa. 



H. T. Cresson. Feldspar crystal, Leiperville, Pa. 



C. S. Bement. Cinnabar, New Almaden, Cal. ; Cinnabar and Metacinna- 

 barite, Lake Co., Cal. ; Pyrites, I. Elba and Freiberg, Saxony ; Hematite, 

 Elba and Mt. Vesuvius ; Bournonite, Przibrara, Bohemia; Spinel, Orange 

 Co., N. Y. ; Quartz, pseudomorph after Barite, Roxbury, Conn.; Green 

 Pyroxene, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; Beryl, Quartz, Albite, and Orthoclase, 

 Elba; Garnets in gneissose granite, Avondale, Pa. ; Orthoclase, St. Lawrence 

 Co., N. Y. ; Orthoclase with Quartz, Ural Mts. ; Orthoclase with Quartz, 

 Lomnitz, Silesia; Tourmaline, McComb Co., N. Y. ; Sphene, St. Lawrence 

 Co., N. Y. ; Wavellite, Hot Springs, Ark. ; Apatite, Renfrew, Ontario ; 

 Plagionite, Wolfsberg, Harz Mts. ; Crocidolite, Griqua Terr., S. Africa ; 

 Cancrinite, Litchfield, Conn.; Barite, Felsobdnya, Hungary; Anglesite, 

 Sardinia; Strontianite, Hamm, Westphalia. 



A. E. Foote. Heulandite on Zoisite, Chabazite with Leidyite, Chabazite, from 

 Leipers Quarry, Del. Co., Pa. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



H. Skinner. Native Tellurium, Boulder Co., Col. ; Massive Menaccanite, Fair- 

 mount Park, Phila. ; Water-worn lock simulating Indian implement, Athens, 

 Pa.; Native Tellurium, Boulder Co., Col ; Columbite, Greenland. 



•Joseph Jeanes. Pyrite (iv^in crystal), with Hematite, from Elba; Hematite 

 crystals, Caoradi, Tavetsch Thai, Switzerland ; Stibnite, Japan ; Celestine, 

 from Egypt, Girgenti, and Put-in-Bay, Lake Erie. 



H. Burgin. Argentiferous Arsenopyrite, Continental Divide, Col. ; Schirmerite, 

 Summit Co., Col. ; Pyrargyrite, Argentiferous Tetrahedrite, Kelso Mt., Col. ; 

 Fluorite, iridescent Quartz, White Beryl, Garnet in Albite, Microlite in Albite, 

 Allanite in Albite, Microcline, Muscovite, Pink Muscovite in Albite, Albite, 

 Orthoclase, Kaolinite, Columbite in Albite, and Mona'zite in Albite, all from 

 Amelia Co , Va. ; Vanadiferous Wulfenite, Phcenixville, Pa. ; Ankerite, 

 Chester Co., Pa. 



M. E. Newbold. Amber, from the greensand of Vincentown, N. J. 



W. H. H. Bates. Hornblende, from South Windsor, Me. 



S. R. Calhoun. Chalcedony geode, containing water, from the Rio Salto, 

 Uruguay. 



J. M. Hartman. Octahedral crystal of Cuprite, France. 



W. P. Miller. Wulfenite, from Arizona. 



J. Binder. Chalcopyrite, Mt. Desert I., Me. 



C. R. Gaul. Mesolite and Calcite, from Fritz's Island, near Reading, Pa, 



F. V. Hayden. Viandite, Yellowstone National Park. 



Purchased. Corundum, Iredell Co., N. C. ; Variolite, Tyrol ; Variolite pebble, 

 Durance, France ; Margerite and Emery, Chester, Mass. 



In Exchange. Phosphorescent Limestone, Utah. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883 



ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



1883. 



Abich, Hermann. Geologische Forschungen in den Kaukasischen Landem. I 

 and II Th. aud atlas. Jos. Jeanes. 



Albrecht, Paul Sur les 4 os interniaxillaires le Bec-de-Lievre. 

 Das OS intermedium tarsi der Saugethiere. 

 Sur le crane remarquable d'une idiot de 21 ans. 



Sur la valeur morphologique de larticulation mandibulaire du cartilage de 

 Meckel. The Author. 



Ancey, F. C. Observations sur quelques Macularia. 



Catalogue des moUusques marins du Cap Pinfede pres de Marseille. 



Sur la fauue conchyliologique terrestre du pays des Somalis. The Author. 



Anderson, John. Catalogue of Mammalia in the Indian Museum, Calcutta. 



Pt. 1. 



Catalogue and hand-book of the archisological collections in the Indian 



Museum. Part 1, 1883. The Trustees. 



Archiv. der naturw. Landesdurchforschung von Bohmen. IV, 4, 6 ; V, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ashburner, Chas. A. The anthracite coal beds of Pennsylvania. H. C. Lewis. 

 Astor Library, 34th annual report. 1882. The Trustees. 



Baillon, M. H. Dictionnaire botanique, 15e fasc. I. V. 'Williamson Fund. 



Barrois, Ch. Recherches sur les terrains anciens des Asturies et de la Galice. 

 Text and plates. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Bartram's Garden, three photographs of scenes in. J. H. Redfield. 



Beales-Rissley Collection, W. Elliot Woodward's 60th sale. Ancient imple- 

 ments and ornaments, October 31, 1883. 

 Bellardi, L. MoUuschi dei Terreni terziari del Piemonte e della Liguria. Pt. 

 2, 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bentham G. et J. D. Hooker. Genera plantarum. Ill and III, 2. 



I. V. Williamsun Fund. 

 Berg, Carlos. Doce beteromeros nuevos de la fauna Argentina. 

 Miscellanea lepidopterologica. Buenos Aires, 1883. 



Analecta lepidopterologica, 1882. The Author. 



Berkeley, Rev. M. J. Description of new species of fungi, collected in the 



vicinity of Cincinnati by Thos. G Lea. David L. James. 



Blackwall, John. Researches ia zoology. 2d Ed., 1878. Jos. Jeanes. 



Bland, T. Description of two new species of zonites from Tennessee. 



The Author. 

 Board of Agriculture, State of North Carolina. Report of the Session, 1883. 



S. G. Worth. 



Bocage, J. V. Barboza du. Ornithologie d' Angola. 2me Partie. Lisbonne, 



1881 The Author. 



Boissier, Ed. Flora Orientalis. V, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Borre, A. Preudhomme de. Sur un travail recent de M. S. H. Scudder con- 



cernant les myriopodes du terrain houiller. 



Analyse et resume d'un m($moire de M. le Dr. G. H. Horn on the genera of 



Carabidfe with special reference to the fauna of boreal America. 

 Sur deux vari^les de Carabiques observees en Belgique. The Author. 



Boulenger, G. A. Catalogue of the batrachia gradientia, S. caudata and 

 batrachia apoda in the collection of the British Museum. 2d. Ed. 



The Trustees. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Bourguignot, J. R. Lettres malacologique a MM. Brusina d'Agram et Kobelt 

 de Francfort. The Author. 



Description du nouveau genre Gallandia, 1880. 

 Recensement des Vivipara du syatfeme Europeen, 1880. 

 Description de diverses espfeces de Coelestele et de Paladilhia decouvertes 

 en Espagne pai- le Dr. G. Servain, 1880. Jos. .Jeanes. 



Brauer, F. Offenes Schreiben als Antwort auf Herrn Baron Osten-Sacken's 

 "Critical Review" meiner Arbeit Uber die Notacanthen, 1883. 



The Author. 

 Brefeld, 0. Botanische Untersuchungen iiber Hefenpilze. V H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brinton, Daniel G. Recent European contributions to the study of American 

 Archasology. The Author. 



British Museum. Catalogue of the birds in the. Vols. 7 and 8, 1883. 



The Trustees. 



Bronn'a Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. ler Bd., Protozoa, neue 



Bearbeitet von Dr. 0. Biitschli, 1-19 Lief. ; 5er Bd., II Abth., 9-11 Lief.; 



6er Bd., Ill Abth., 35-40 Lief. ; V Abth., 26 Lief. Wilson Fund. 



Brongniart, Chas. Les Gregariniens. 



Notices scientifiques. Conferences faites devant la " Soci^te scientitique de 



lajeunesse" F. V. Hayden. 



Brooklyn Library. 25th annual report of the Board of Directors, March 29, 



1883, and Bulletin No. 17. The Directors. 



Brvihl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas, Lief. 26, 27. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Buckton, Geo. B. Monograph of the British Aphides. Vol. IV. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bucquoy, E., Ph. Dautzenberg and G. Dollfuss. Les mollusques marins du 

 Roussillon. Fasc. 3 and 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bureau of Education. Circulars of Information. No. 2, 1882-1883. 

 National pedagogic congress of Spain. 

 Natural science in secondary schools. 



Instruction in moral and civil government. Department of the Interior. 



Bureau of Ethnology. First annual report. 1881. Smithsonian Institution. 



Bureau of Statistics. Treasury Department. Quarterly report. June 30, 



and Sept. 30, 1883. The Department. 



Cabral, F. A. de V. Pereira. Estudo de depositos superficaes da Bacia do 



Douro. 

 Caligny, Anatole de. Recherches th^oriques et experimentales sur les oscil- 

 lations de I'eau. le et 2e partie. The Author. 

 Cardim, Fernao. Do principle e origem dos Indies do Brazil e de seus costumes, 

 adoracao e ceremonias. 1881. 0. A. Derby. 

 Carr, Lucien. The mounds of the Mississippi Valley, historically considered. 

 Cams, J. V. Ueber die Leptocephaliden. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Caspari, H. Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Hautgewebes der Cacteen. 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Catalogue of the officers and students of Yale College. 1882-1883. 



The Corporation. 

 Cheesman, L. M. Ueber den Einfluss der mechanischen Harte auf die mag- 

 netischen Eigenschaften des Stahles und des Eisens. 1882. 



University of Wiirzburg. 

 Chief of Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department. Quarterly report, March 

 31, 1883. Treasury Department. 



Chief of Engineers, U. S. A. Annual report. Parts I, II, III, 1882. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Chief of Ordnance. Report of. 1882. War Department. 



Chief Signal Officer. Annual reports of the. For 1880-1881. War Department. 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



ChoflFat. Paul. Etude stratigraphique et paltSontologique des terrains juras- 

 siques du Portugal. Ire Livr., 1880. Geological Survey of Portugal. 

 City Hospital, Boston. 19th report of the trustees of. 1882-83. The Authors. 

 Clessin, S. Zwei neue siideuropaische Species. 

 Die terticiren Binnenconchylien von Undorf. 

 Was ist Art, was Variefat? 



Bemerkungen iiber die deutschen Arten des Genus Planorbis Guett. 

 Les Pisidiums de la faune profonde des lacs Suisse. 

 Studien iiber die Helix-Gruppe Fruticicola Hid. 



Helix arbustorum und ihre Varietiiten. The Author. 



Cole, A. C. Siudies in microscopical science. Vol. I, 1F83. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section. 

 Colonial Museum and Geological Survey Department. Report of geological 

 explorations during 1881. Geological Survey of New Zealand. 



Commissioner of Agriculture. Report for the year 1882, 



Department of Agriculture. 



Commission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung der deutschen Meere. 



VII— XI Jahrg.. 1 Abth., 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Comstcck, C. B. Professional papers of the Corps of Engineers, U. S. A. 



No. 21. 



Report upon the primary triangulation of the U. S. Lake Survey. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Cooper, E. Forest culture and Eucalyptus trees. 1876. F. von Mu'eller. 



Cope, E. D. The genus Phenacodus. 

 Paleontological Bulletin, No. 36. 



On the mutual relation of the Biinotherian mammalia. 

 The structure and appearance of the Laramie Dinosaurian. 

 On the characters of the skull in Hadrosaurus and on some vertebrata from 



the Permian of Illinois. 

 On the extinct dogs of North America. The Author. 



Coppi, Francesco. Osservazioni malacologiche circa la Nassa semistriata e N. 

 costulata del Brocchi. The Author. 



Costa, F. A. Pereira da. Monumentos prehistorisos. Descripcao de algunas 

 dolmins ou autras de Portugal 1868. 

 Commissao geologico de Portugal. Molluscos fosseis Gasteropodes dos 

 depositos terciarios de Portugal, lo & 2o Caderno, 1807. The Author. 

 Do existencia do homem em epochas remotas no Valle do Tejo. Premeiro 

 opuscule. Geological Survey of Portugul. 



Coues, E. Check list of North American birds. 1882. Jos. Jeanes. 



Cox, J. C. On the edible oysters found on the Australian and neighboring 

 coasts. The Author. 



Dames, W., and E, Kayser. Palaeontologische Abhandlungen. I, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Davaine, C. Trait6 des entozoaires et des maladies vermineuses. 1877. 



Jos. Jeanes. 



De CandoUe, A. Origine des plantes cultiv^s. 1883. I. V Williamson Fund. 



De Candolle, A. and C. Monographie phanerogatnarum. IV. AVilson Fund. 



Delgado, J. F. Nery. Communica9oes da Seccao dos trabalhos geologicos. I. 



Considera9oes ^cerca dos esiudos geologicos em Portugal. 



Contributions a la flore fossile du Portugal. 1881. 



Relatorio e outros documentos relativos d Commissao scientifica desem- 



penhada em differentes cidades da Italia, AUemanha e Fran9a. 1882. 

 Terrenos paleozoicos de Portugal. Sobre a exi&tencia de terreno siluriano 

 no Baixo Alemtejo. Geological Survey of PortugaL 



Department of Agriculture. Special report. Nos. 52-57, 59-65. 

 Chemical Division, Bulletin No 1. Div. of Statistics, 2. 

 Division of Entomology, Bulletin Nos. 1 and 2. 1883. 

 Division of Statistics, n. s., report No. 1. 1883. The Department. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Department of Mines, NoTa Scotia. Report for the year 1882. 



Department of Mines. 

 Deschanel, A. Privat. Elementary treatise on natural philosophj'. 6tli Ed. 



1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Director of the Mint. Annual report of the. 1880,1881,1882. 



Horatio C Burchard. 

 DoUo, M. L. Troisieme note sur les Dinosauriens de Bernissart. The Author. 

 Domeyko, Ignacio. Mineralojia. 3a Ed., 1879. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Drasche, R. v. Fragmente zu einer Geologie der Insel Luzon. 1878. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Drouet. H. Unionidse de la Russie d'Europe. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dumeril, Aug. Histoire naturelle des poissons. Two vols, in three and plates. 



1 and 2 Livr. Jos. Jeanes. 



Dupont, E. Terrain devonien de I'Entre-Sambre-et-.Meuse. Les lies Coral- 



liennes de Roly et de Philippeville. The Author. 



E. Dupont and M. Mourlon. Musee royale d'histoire naturelle de Belgique. 



Service de la carte geologique du Royaume explication de la feuille de 



Ciney. Geological Survey of Belgium. 



Dutton, Clarence. United States Geological Survey. Tertiary history of the 



Grai!d Canon District, with Atlas. Department of the Interior. 



Elliot, D. G. A monograph of the Bucerotidae or Family of the Hornbills. 



Part 10. Wilson Fund, 



Elsas, A. Ueber erzwungene Schwingungen weicher Fiiden, 1881. 



University of WUrzburg. 

 Encyclopaedia Britannica. XV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Encyklopedie der Naturwissenschaften. ler Abth., 31, 32 and 34 Lief. ; 2e 



Abth., 8-16 and 38 Lief. 

 Erichson. Naturgeschichte der Insekten Deutschlands. ler Abth. Coleoptera, 



VI, 2e Lief., Bg., 13-23, 1882, Wilson Fund. 



Ernst, A Resumen del curso de zoologica. I, 1882. The Author. 



Etheridge, Robert. A catalogue of Australian fossils, 1878. Jos. Jeanes. 



Eudes-Deslongchamps. Le Jura Normand. 2d Livr. Monog. IV, fls. 6-8. 



Pis. 8, 7, 15 ; Monog. VI, fls. 5-10. Pis. II, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 1878. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Expedition zur physikalisch-chemischen und biologischen Untersuchungen der 



Nordsee im Sommer 1872. Berlin, 1875. Jos. Jeanes. 



Eyferth, B. Die einfachsten Lebenformen systematische Naturgeschichte der 



mikroskopischen Siisswasserbewohner, 1878. Jos. Jeanes. 



Eyton, T. C. A history of the oyster and the oyster fisheries. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel. V-VII, 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Falb, R. Grundziige zu einer Theorie der Erdleben und Vulkanausbriiche. 2e 



Ausg., 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Felix, J. Sammlung palgeontologischer Abhandlungen. I, 1. Die fossilen 



Holzer westindiens, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Fernandez, L, Coleccion de documentos para la historia de Costa Rica. 



The Author. 

 Ficalho, Conde de. Flora dos Lusiados, 1880. Academy of Science of Lisbon. 

 Financial reform almanack for 1883. tobden Club. 



Fischer, Paul. Manuel de Conchyliologie, Fasc. 5 and atlas. The Author. 

 Forestry Bulletin, No. 23-25. Department of the Interior. 



Fouque, F. et Michel Levy. Synthase des min^raux et des roches. 1882. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Frazer, Persifor. Cleopatra's Needle ; mineralogical and chemical examina- 

 tion of the rock of the Obelisk. 

 The iron ores of the middle James River in Amherst and Nelson Counties, 



Virginia. The Author. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery of the City of Liverpool. 



13th annual report. The Trustees. 



Friedliinder, R. and Sohn. Bibliotheca historico-naturalis et mathematica. 



Lager-catalog., 1883. The Publishers. 



Friele, H. Den Norske Nordhav-Expedition, 1876-1878. VIII. Zoologie, 



MoUusca. I. Buccinidag, 1882. The Author. 



Gallo, A. N. Monografia suUe culture ortensi della Sicilia, 1880. 



Agricultural Society of Sicily. 

 Geological Survey of Illinois A. H. Worthen, Director. Vol. 7, Geology and 



Palaeontology. Geology, by A. H. Worthen. Palfcontology, by A. H. 



Worthen, Orestes St. John and S. A. Miller, with an addenda by Chas. 



AVachsmuth and W. H. Barris. May, 1883. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of India. Memoirs. Palaeontologia Indica. Ser. X, Vol. 



2, Pts. 1, 2, 3 and 5 ; Ser. XIV, Vol. 1, Pt. 3. Memoirs, 8mo. XIX, 1 ; 



XXII. 

 Records, XV, 1. 2 and 3. The Survey. 



Geological Survey of Newfoundland. Report of Progress. 1881. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey. Annual Report, 1882. The Survey. 



Geology of Wisconsin. Survey of 1873-1879. Vols. 1-4 and folio atlas. 



The Survey. 

 German Hospital of the City of Philadelphia. 23d annual report. The Trustees. 

 Goppert, H. R. Ueber das gefrieren Erfrieren der Pflanzen und Schutzmittel 



dagegen, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gomes, B. A. Vegetaes fosseis. Primeiro opuscolo. Flora fossil do terreno 



carbonifero, I860. Geological Survey of Portugal. 



Qraaf, W. de. Sur la construction des organes genitaux des Phalangiens, 1882. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Gray, Asa. Contributions to North American botany, 1883. The Author. 



Greeley, A. W. Professional papers of the Signal Service, No. 2. 



Isothermal Lines of the United States. War Department. 



Gregorio, Ant. de. Moderne nomenclature des Coquilles. 1883. The Author. 

 Gross, V. Les Protohelv^tes, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Griiber, Wenzel. Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden 



Anatomic. 3 Hefte. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Giiiither, A. C. L, G. An introduction to the study of fishes. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Guimaraes, A. B. P. Description d'un nouveau poisson de I'interieur d' Angola. 



The Author. 



Guthrie, Malcolm. On Mr. Spencer's unification of knowledge. The Author. 



Guyot, Arnold. Physical geography, New York. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Biographical memoir of Louis Agassiz. The Author. 



Guppy, K. J. L. The Trinidad ofl&cial and commercial register and almanack 



for 1882 and 1883. The Author. 



Haeckel, Ernst. Anthropogenic. 3e Aufl., 1877. Jos. Jeanes. 



Hale, P. M. The woods and timbers of North Carolina. S. Q. Worth. 



Hall, James. Geological Survey of New York. Palaeontology, VI, 1. Lamel- 



libranchiata. 

 Bryozoans of the Upper Helderberg and Hamilton Groups. The Author. 

 Hallock, Wm. Ueber galvanische Polarisation und das Smee'sche Element, 



1882. University of Wurzburg. 



Hand-book of the State of North Carolina. Raleigh, 1883. S. G. Worth. 



Hartmann, R. Die menschenahnlichen Affen und ihre organisation im Vergleich 



zur Menschlichen, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Harkness, H. W. Footprints found at the Carson State prison. The Author. 

 Hauer, Franz R. v. Die Geologic und ihre Anwendung auf die Kenntniss die 



Bodenschaffenheit der Oesterr.-Ungar. Monarchic, ie Aufl., 1878. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Hayden, F. V. 12th annual report of the United States Geological and 

 Geographical Survey of the Territories. Parts 1, 2 and maps, 1883. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Hayden, F. V., and A. R. C. Selwyn. Stanford's compendium of geography 

 and travel. North America. 1883. F. V. Hayden. 



Hawaii. Sixteen photographs of the recent flow from Monna-Loa, a volcano 

 of the Island of. Dr. Francis W. Wetmore. 



Hubert, M. Observations sur la position stratigraphique des couches a Tere- 

 bratula janitor, Am. transitorius, etc., d'apres des travaux r^cents. 

 Sur le groupement des couches les plus anciennes de la serie strati- 

 graphique, a I'occasion du projet de carte geologique Internationale de 

 I'Europe. 

 Gisement des couches marines de Sinceny (Aisne). 

 Sur le position des sables de Sinceny. 

 Sur le groupe nummulitique du Midi de la France. 



Le terrain cretace des Pyrenees. The Author. 



Heckmann, J. Ueber die Einwirkung von Dinitrobenzol auf Natracelessi- 



gester. 1882. University of Wiirzburg. 



Heer, Oswald. Flora fossilis arctica. VI, 2, VII, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hermann, L. Handbuch der Physiologic. V, 2er Th., 2 L. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hertwig, Richard. Der Organismus der Radiolarien. 1879. Jos. Jeanes. 



Hicks, Henry. On the metamorphic and overlying rocks in parts of Ross and 

 Inverness Shires. The Author. 



Hidalgo, J. G. Moluscos marines de EspaHa, Portugal y las Baleares. Ent. 

 17. Nov., 1882. The Author. 



Higgins, Henry H. Notes by a field-naturalist in the western tropics. 1877. 



Jos. Jeanes. 



Hildebrandsson, H. Hildebrand. Samling af bemarkelsedager, tecken, m'arken, 



ordsprak och skrock rorande viiderleken. The Author. 



Hill, Franklin C. On the antenna of Melcie. The Author. 



Hincks, Thos. A history of the British marine polyzoa. 2 vols. 1880. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Hinde, G. J. On annelid remains from the silurian strata of the Isle of 

 Gotland. 1882. The Author. 



Hoernes, R. Die Erdbeben-Theorie Rudolf Falb's. 1881. Jos. Jeanes. 



Hoffer, Eduard. Die Hummeln Steiermarks. 1 & 2 H. Jos. Jeanes. 



Hooker, J. D. The flora of British India. Parts IX and X. 

 Hooker, Wm. Jackson. Botanical miscellany. 3 vols , 1831. John H. Redfield. 

 Hopley, Catherine C. Snakes: Curiosities and wonders of serpent life. 1882. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hovey, Horace C. Celebrated American caverns. 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Humboldt, A. v. Views of nature. London, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hungarian Government. Fourteen statistical pamphlets. 



Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Hutton, F. W. Note on the structure of Struthiolaria papulosa. The Author. 

 Catalogues of the New Zealand diptera, orthoptera, hymenoptera. 1881. 



Geological Survey of New Zealand. 

 Ignatius, K. E. F. Exposition Universelle de 1878 a Paris. 



Le Grand-Duch^ de Finlande. Notice Statistique, 1878. The Author. 



Index-Catalogue of the library of the Surgeon-General's oSice, U. S. A. 



Authors and subjects. Vol. IV. 1883. War Department. 



Inspector der Fischereien, Finnland. An die Ackerbau-Expedition im k. Senat 



fiir Finnland d. 20 Jan. 1883 abgegebene Gutachten, in wiefern es 



geeignet wiire in Finnland klinstliche Fischzucht einzufUhren. 



A. J. Malmgren. 

 Issel, Arturo. Istruzione pratiche per I'ostricultura e la mitilicultura. 



I. v.. Williamson Fund. 

 James, Jos. F. A revision of the genua Clematis of the United States. The Author. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Jan, G. Iconographie generale des Ophidiens. Vol. 2, Index, etc. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Jeffreys, J. Gwyn. On the mollusca procured during the cruise of H. M. S. 

 "Triton," between the Hebrides and Faroes in 1882. 

 On the mollusca procured during the "Lightning" and "Porcupine" 



expeditions, 1868-70. 

 Black Sea mollusca. The Author. 



Jolis, Aug. le. Note sur le Myosotis sparsiflora de la flore de la Normandie. 



The Author. 

 Jones, Jos. Investigations, chemical and physiological, relative to certain 

 American vertebrata. The Author. 



Judd, John W. Volcanoes : What they are and what they teach. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Just, L. Botanischer Jahresbericht. 6er Jahrg., 2te Abth., 4 und 5 H. ; 



7er Jahrg., 2te Abth., 2 und 3 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kemeny, Gd,bor and Geza Howarth. Jelentes^az orsz^gos Phylloxera-kis^rleti 



Allomd-s, 1881-ik 6vi Mukod^serol, 1 Evfolyam, 1881. 



Hungarian Acad, of Sciences. 

 Kennel, J. Ueber Ctenodailus pardalis, 1882. The Author. 



Kent, W. Saville. A manual of the Infusoria. 2 vols, text and one of atlas. 

 1881-82. Jos. Jeanes. 



Kinahan, G. H. Manual of geology of Ireland. 1878. Jos. Jeanes. 



Kleinenberg, N. Hydra. 1872. Jos. Jeanes. 



Kobell, F. V. Geschichte der Mineralogie, von 1850-1860. Miinchen. 1864. 



Jos. Jeanes. 



Kobelt, W. Iconographie der schalentragenden europiiischen Meerescon- 



chylien. H. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Catalog der im europliischen Faunengebiet lebenden Binnenconchylien. 



2te Aufl. 1881. Jos. Jeanes. 



Kolliker, A. Zur Entwicklung des Auges und Geruchsorganes menschlicher 



Embryonen. 1883. The University of Zurich. 



Koninck, L. G. De. Notice sur la famille des Bellerophontidfe. The Author. 



Krazer, A. Theorie der zweifach unendlichen Thetareihem auf grund der 



Riemann'schen Thetaformel. 1. Th., 1881. University of Wiirzburg. 



Kunz, Geo. F. American gems and precious stones. 1883. The Author. 



Lacoe, R. D. List of palaeozoic fossil insects of the U. States. The Author. 



Lang, Heinr. Otto. Grundriss der Gesteinskunde. 1877. Jos. Jeanes. 



Lanessan, J. L. , Dr. flannel d'histoire naturelle m6dicale. 3 vols., 1882. 



Jos. Jeanes. 



Lapparent, A. de. Traite de Geologic, VII, VIII. Jos. Jeanes. 



Lasaulx, A. v. Elemente der Petrographie. 1875. Jos. Jeanes. 



Latchford, F. R. Notes on Ottawa Unionidce. The Author. 



Lawes, Sir J. B. Memorandum of the origin, plan and results of the field and 



other experiments conducted on the farm and in the laboratory of Sir 



John Bennet Lawes. 1883. The Author. 



Lawrence, Geo. N. Description of a new species of Swift of the genus 



Chaetura. 



Descriptions of two new species of birds from Yucatan of the families 



Columbidae and Formicariidte. 

 Description of a new species of bird of the family Cypselidse. 

 Description of a new species of bird of the family Turdidse. 

 Description of a new species of Icterus from the West Indies. 

 Description of a new sub-species of Loxigilla from the island of St. Chris- 

 topher. West Indies. The Author. 

 Le Conte, John L., and Geo. H. Horn. Classification of the Coleoptera of 

 North America. 188-<. The Author. 

 Lee, John G. Homicide and suicide in Philadelphia during 1871 to 1881 

 incl. The Author. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Lewis, H. Carvill. Mineralogical notes, 1882. 



A summary of progress in Mineralogy in 1882. 

 On some enclosures in Muscovite, 1882. 

 The great ice age in Pennsylvania. 

 The great terminal moraine across Pennsylvania. 

 Map of the terminal moraine. 



The geology of Philadelphia. January 12, 1882. The Author. 



Library Company of Philadelphia. Bulletin, January, 1883. The Trustees. 

 Librarian of Congress. Annual report, 1882. The Author. 



Liversidge, Archibald. The minerals of New South Wales. 2d Ed. 



Royal Society of New South Wales. 



Locard, A. Contributions a la faune malacologique Fraacaise, I-VI, 1881-1882. 



Catalogue des mollusques vivants terrestres et aquatiques du Department 



del'Ain, 1881. 

 Prodrome de Malacologie Francaise. Catalogue g^n^ral des mollusques 

 , vivants de France, 1882. 

 Etudes sur les variations malacologique d'aprfes la faune vivante et fossile 



de la partie centrale du Bassin du Rhone. 2 vols., 1881. 

 Recherches paleontologiques sur les depots tertiaires a Milne-Edwardsia 



et Vivipara du Pliocene inf^rieur du Department de I'Ain, IBBi. 

 Malacologie des Lacs de Tiberiade d'Antioche et d' Horns, 1883. 

 Description d'une esp^ce nouvelle de moUusque appartenant au genre 

 Paulia. The Author. 



Lowne, B. Thompson. Descriptive catalogue of the teratological series in the 

 museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Lyman, Theo. Report of the scientific results of the voyage of H. M. S. Chal- 

 lenger. Zoology, V, 14. Report on the Ophiuroidea. The Author, 

 M' Alpine, D. The botanical atlas, 1883, 2 vols. Jos. Jeanes. 

 McCook, H. C. The mode of recognition among ants, 1878. 

 Toilet habits of ants, 1878. 

 The Basilica spider and her snare, 1878. 

 Mound-making ants of the .'^.lleghenies, 1878. 

 Supplementary note on the aeronautic flight of spiders, 1878. 

 Cutting or Parasol ant, Atta fervens Say, 1879. 



Note on the adoption of an ant-queen, 1879. Mode of depositing ant- 

 eggs. 

 Note oa the marriage-flights of Lasius flavus and Myrmica lobricornis, 



1879. 

 Pairing of spiders, Linyphia marginata, 1879. Note on mound-making 



ants, 1879. 

 Combats and nidification of the Pavement ant, 1879. 

 On the mandibles of ants and nests of Tarantula, 1879. 

 The snare of ray-spider, 1881. 

 The honey ants of the Garden of the Gods, 1881. 

 Note on the intelligence of the American Turret spider. 

 Snare of orb-weaving spiders, 1882. The Author. 



Marion, A. F. Observations sur le DracDsna goldieana, 1882. 



Applications du sulphure de carbone au traitement des vignes phyllox€r€es, 



1882. 

 Draguages au large de Marseille. B, 1879. The Author. 



Marrat, F. P. The naturalization of the estuary of the Mersey. The Author. 

 Martens, E. v. Description of two species of land-shells from Porto Rico, 

 W. I. T. Bland 



Conchologische Mittheilungen. II, 3 and 4. 

 Die Weich-und-Schaltiere gemeinfasslich dargestellt, 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet. 318e-324e Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Mastersi Maxwell T. On the Passifloreae collected by M. Edouard Andr6 in 



Ecuador and New Granada, The Author. 



Maye, Gustav. Die europaischen Arten der gallenbewohnenden Cynipiden, 



1882. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion. Part 3, Vol. 2; 



Surgical History, 2d issue. War Department. 



Meehan, Thomas. Variations in Nature. 1883. The Author. 



Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York. 62d annual report, 



1883. The Director. 

 Mercantile Library Company of Philadelphia. 60th annual report, January, 



1883. . The Directors. 



Mercantile Library Association of San Francisco. 30th annual report. 



The Association. 

 Metzges, 6. TJeber die Einwirkung von Schwefeleaure auf Methyl- und ^Ethyl- 

 Alkohol, 1881. University of Wiirzburg. 



Miller, A. S. The American palseozoic fossils. 2d Ed.. 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Milne, Edwards. Rapport sur les travaux de la Commission chargee par M. 

 le Ministre de I'lnstruction publique d'^tudier la faune sous-marine dans 

 les grandes profondeurs de la Mediterranee et de I'ocean Atlantique. 



A. F. Marion. 



Mission scientifique au Mexique et dans ^I'AmeriqueCentrale. Recherches 



zoologiques. 3me partie, 2e section Etudes sur les batraciens par M. 



Brocchi, Livr. 2 and 3. Etudes sur les reptiles et les batraciens, par 



MM. Auguste Dumeril et Bocourt, Livr., 8. 



Moebius, K., F. Richter und E. von Martens^. Beitrage zur Meeresfauna der 



Insel Mauritius und der Seychellen, 1880. Jos. Jeanes. 



Moeller. Jos. Anatomic der Baumrinden, 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mohn, H. Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition, 1875-1878. X. Meteorologi, 



1883. Norwegian Government. 



Molescott. Jac. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 



XIII, 2 and 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Morris, 6. H. Beitrag zur Geschichte der Destillations-producte des Colopho- 



niums, 1882. University of Wurzburg. 



Mortillet, Gabriel de. Le prehistorique antiquite de I'homme, 1883. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Mott, F. T. The fruits of all countries, 1883. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Miiller, Ferd. v. Lecture on the flora of Australia, 1882. 



Fragmenta phytograpbise Australise. XI and XII, pp. 1-26. 

 Eucalyptographia, 2d, 5th and 6th Decade, 1879-80. 



Index perfectus ad Caroli Linnsei species Plantarum, nempe earum primam 



editionem (Anno 1753), 1880. The Author. 



Miiller, H. The fertilization of flowers, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Nares, Capt. G. S. Narrative of a voyage to the polar sea during 1875-6, in 



H. M. Ships "Alert" and "Discovery." 2 Vols., 4th Ed., 1878. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Natural Bridge, Virginia. Two photographs of the. Mr. S. F. Corlies. 



Naturw. Landesdurchforschung von Biihrnen. Archiv der. V, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naumann, Carl Fiedr. Elemente der Mineralogie. lie Aufl. von Dr. Ferd. 

 Zirkel. Jos. Jeanes. 



Netto, L. Aper9u sur la theorie de revolution, 1883. The Author. 



Newberry, J. S. Geological Survey of Ohio. Report, Vols. 3 and 4. The Author. 

 New South Wales. Australian Museum. Report of Trustees for 1882. 



The Director. 

 New South Wales. Department of mines. Annual report of. 1880. 



Royal Society of N. S. W. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Newton, Alf. Ahistory of British birds. 4th Ed.. Pt. 15. I.V.Wimamson Fund. 

 Newton, John. The fortifications of to-day. 1883. Engineer Dept., U. S. A 

 New York State Library. 62d, 63d and 64th annual reports. 



Regents of the University. 

 New York State Museum of Natural History. 31st annual report. 1878. 



Regents of the University. 

 New Zealand. Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of. 17th annual 

 report. 1882. The Directors. 



Nordenskiold, A. E. Vega-Expeditionens Vetenskapligft lakttagelser bear- 

 betade af Deltagare i Resan och Andra Forskare utgifna af A. E. 

 Nordenskiold. Fdrsta Bd., 1882. 

 Vegas FLlrd Kring Asien och Europa. I and II. Jos. Jeanes. 



Norner, C. Die KrUtzmilbe der Hiihner. 

 Syringophilus bipectinatus. 



Beitrag zur Behandlung mikroskopischer Prliparate. 

 Analges minor eine neue Milbe im Innern der Federspulen der Hiihner. 

 Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Milbenfamilie der Dermaleichiden. 1883. 



The Author. 

 Norske Nordhavs-Expedition. 1876-78, VI— IX. 1882. 



The Norwegian Government. 

 Norwegische Commission der europaischen Gradmessung, Publication der. 

 Geodatische Arbeiten, H. 1-3. Vandstandsobservationer, H. 1. 



The Commission. 

 Ochsenius, Karl. Die Region der Schott's in Nordafrika und das Sahara- 

 Meer. I— VII. 

 Die Bildung von Steinsalzflotzen. The Author. 



Opening ceremonies of the New York and Brooklyn Bridge, May 24, 1883. 

 Packard A. S. On the classification of the Linnean Order of Orthoptera and 

 Neuroptera. 

 A revision of the Lysiopetalidae, a family of Chilognath Myriapoda, with 



a notice of the genus Cambala. 

 Repugnatorial pores in the Lysiopetalidae. 



A new species of Polydtsmus with eyes. The Author. 



Paetel, Fr. Catalogue der Conchylien-Sammlung. 1883. The Author. 



Pagenstecher, H. Alex. Allgemeine Zoologie oder Grundgesetze des thierischen 



Baus und Lebens. ler-4er Th. 1875-81. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Paget, James. Descriptive catalogue of the pathological specimens contained 



in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 2d Ed., 



by Sir James Paget, with the assistance of James Frederic Goodhart, 



M. D., and Alban H. G. Doran. Vol. 2, 1883. The Council of the College: 



Pal^ontologie Fran9aise. Ire Ser. An. Invert. Terrain Jurassique. Livr. 32, 



54-64. Terrain Cr^tace. L. 29. Wilson Fund. 



Palaeontograpica. 29er Bd., 2e-6e Lief. Suppl. II, 4te Abth., Text und Atlas. 



Suppl III, L. 10-11. Wilson Fund. 



Parrish, S. B., and W. F. Supplementary list of the plants of Southern 



California. The Author. 



Paulucci, M. Nuova stazione delta Clausilia lucensis. 1877. 



Etude critique sur quelques Hyalina de Sardaigne et description d'une 



nouvelle espece. 1879. 

 Molluschi fluviatili Italiani inviati come saggio alia Esposizione inter- 



nazionale della Pesca in Berlino. 1880. 

 Osservazioni critiche sopra le specie del genere Strathiolaria Lamarck. 



1877. Ancora del genere Struthiolaria Lam. 2" Articolo. 1877. 

 Description d'une Murex fossile du terrain tertiaire subapennin de la 



Vallee de I'Elsa. 

 Fauna Italiana. Communicazioni malacologiche. Art. 1-7, 1877-1880. 

 Materiaux pour servir a I'etude de la faune malacologique terrestre et 

 fluviatile de I' Italic et de ses lies. 1878. The Author. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Peale, Chas. ^ilson. Manuscript lectures on natural history. 1797. Probably 



the first OE. the subject delivered in the U. States. Titian R, Peale. 



Penecke, K. Alphonse. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Fauna der slavonischen 



Paludinenschichten. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Pferes de la Compagnie. M^moires coucernant I'histoire naturelle de T Empire 



Chinois. ler & 2er Cah. Jos. Jeanes. 



Perrier, Ed. Anatomie et physiologie animales. 188'2. I. V. Williamson Fuud. 



Peschel, Oscar. Physische Erdkunde, nach den hinterlassenen Manuscripten 



Oscar Pescel's, selbststiindig bearbeitet und herausgegeben von Gustav 



Leipoldt. ler und 2er Bd 1879-80. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Phillips, Henry, Jr. A brief account of the more important public collections 



of American Archreology in the United States. The Author. 



Plateau, Fi^lix. Recherches experimentales sur les movements respiratoire 



des insectes. The Author. 



Poole, Wm. Fred'k An index to periodical literature. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Potoni^, H. Floristische Beobachtungen aus der Priegnitz, 



Deber den Ersatz erfrohrener Friihlingstriebe durch accessorische und 



andere Sprosse. 

 Das Skelet der Pflanzen. 1882. 



Ueber die Zusammensetzung der Leitbiindel bei den Gefiisskryptogamen. 

 Ueber die Beziehung zwischen dem Spaltoffnungssystem und dem Stereom 



bei den Blaitstielen der Filicineen. 

 Ueber das Vcrhilltniss der Morphologie zur Physiologie. 

 Der k. botanische Garten und das k. botanische Museum in Berlin. 



The Author. 

 Pouchet, G. Des terminaisons vasculaires dans la rate des Selaciens. 



Sur revolution des Peridin^ens et les particularites d'organisation que 

 les rapprochent des noctiluques. The Author. 



Poulsen, C. M. Bornholms Land-og Ferskvands-Bloddyr. 1874. The Author. 

 Powell, J. W. Second annual report of the U. S. Geological Survey. 1882. 



Department of the Interior. 

 First annual report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the 

 Smithsonian Institution, 1879-80. Smithsonian Institution. 



Provancber, L. Petite faune entomologique du Canada. II, 1883. 



The Author. 

 Purgold, A Die Meteoriten des k. mineralogischen Museum in Dresden. 



The Author. 

 Purves, J. C. Sur les depots fluvio-marins d'Age S^nonier. The Author. 



Putnam, F. W. Notes on copper implements from Mexico. 



Iron from the Ohio mounds The Author. 



Quenstedt, F. A. Die Ammoniteu de.s schwabischen Jura. 



I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Die Schopfung der Erde und ihre Bewohner. 1882. Jos. Jeanes. 



Ramos, D. Jose. Historia del Uredo cocivoro. 1882. The Author. 



Ramsay, A. C. The physical geology and geography of Great Britain. 5th 



ed. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Regel, E. Descriptiones plantarum novarum et minus cognitarum. Fasc. 8 



and Suppl. 1883. The Author. 



Regents of the University of the State of New York. 92d, 93d and 94th 



annual reports. The Authors. 



Reichenbach, H. G. Xenia Orchidacea. 111,3. Wilson Fund. 



Reinsch, P. F. Ueber parasitische Algen lihnliche Pflanzen in der Russischen 



Blatterkohle und iiber die Natur der Pflanzen welcbe diese Kohle zusam- 



mensetzen. 



Notiz iiber die neuerdings in dem Polarkreise entdeckten Steinkohlenflotze. 



Ein neuer algoider Typus in der Stigmarienkohle von Kurakino (Russland). 



The Author. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .855 



Eemel6, Adolf. Untersuchungen iiber die versteinerungsfiihrenden Diluvial- 

 geschichfe des norddeutscher Flachlands mit besonderer Deriicksich- 

 tigung der Mark Brandenburg, I Siiick, 1883. 1. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Benault, M. B. Coura de botanique fossile. Ire— 3me An., 1881-83. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Considerations sur lea rapports des lepidodendrons, des sigiliaires et des 

 stigmaria, 1883. The Author. 



Report upon the practice in Europe with the heavy Armstrong, Woolwich and 

 Krupp Rifled Guns. Submitted by the Board of Engineers for Fortifi- 

 cations, 1883. War Department. 

 Report upon the statistics of production of the precious metals in the United 

 States, 1881. Horatio C. Burckard. 

 Reusch, H. H. Die fossilen fiihrenden krystallinischen Schiefer von Bergen 

 in Xorwegen, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Revoil, G. Fauna et flore des Pays Comalis, 1882. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Bhees, William .J. Catalogue of publications of the Smithsonian Institution 

 (1846-1882), with an alphabetical index of articles, 1882. 



The Institution. 

 Ribeiro, Carlos. Estudos geologicos. Descripfao de Solo quaternario das 

 Bacias hydrographicas de Tejo e Sado. 

 Noticia de algumas esta9oes e monumentos prehistorieos. 2 parts. 

 Descrip9ao de algunas silex a quart zites Lascados. 



Relatorio acerca de sexta reuniao do Congresso de Anthropologia e de 



archeologia prehistorico verificada na Cidade de Bruxelles no mez de 



Agosto de 1872. The Author. 



Richard.s Tbos. New South Wales in 1881. Royal Society of N. S. W. 



Reichtofen, F. Freiherrn v. China. 4er Bd. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rivero, E. de and Juan Tschudi. Diego de Antiquedades Peruanat. Atlas, 



18.51 . Executor of Wm. S. Vaux. 



Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Catalogue of the Library, 1882. 



The Society. 



Roca, Gen. D. Julio A. Informe official de la Comision Cientifica agregada al 



Estado Mayor General de la Expedicion al Rio Negro (Patagonia) 



realizada en los messes de April, Mayo y Junio de 1879. Ent. Ill, 



Geologia, 1882. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Roemer, Ferd. Lethaea geognostica. 1 Th. Lethoea palasozoica. Texiband, 



2e Lief,, 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Romanes, Geo. J. The scientific evidences of organic evolution. 1882. 



Animal intelligence. 2d Ed., 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Roscoe, Henry E. Lessons in elementary chemistry. Inorganic and organic, 



1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rossmassler's Iconographie der europaischen land- und siisswasser-Mollusken. 



N. f. I, 1 and 2. Wilson Fund. 



Royal Society. Catalogue of the scientific books in the library of the. 1883. 



The Society. 

 Runkel, F. Ueber Alpha-.Sthylidenvalerolacton, 1882. 



University of Wiirzburg. 

 Rutot, A. Les alluvions modernes dans la moyenne Belgique. 



Les phenomenes de la sedimentation marine. The Author. 



Ryder, J. A. On the mode of fixation of the fry of the oyster. 



Summary of recent progress in our knowledge of the culture, growth and 



anatomy of the ojster. The Author. 



Saccardo, P. A. Sylloge fungorum omnium hucusque cognitorum. I and II. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Salomon, C. Nomenclator der Gefasskryptogamen. 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sampson, F. A. Notes on the distribution of shells. Art. III. The Author. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Schomburgh, R, South Australia. Report on the progress and conditions of 

 the Botanic Garden and Government Plantation during the year 1882. 



The Author. 

 Schibbye, Gustav. Zur Geschichte der Dehydracetsiiure, 1882. 



University of Wiirzburg. 

 Schiodte, J. C. Zoologia Danica, 3die Ilefte. 



Schneider, Anton. Zoologische Beitrage. 1,1,1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schoebel, C. L'ame humaine au point de vue de la science ethnographique. 



2d Ed., 1879. The Author. 



Schwartz, K. Ebbe und Fluth, 1881. JosJeanes. 



Scott, D. H. Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der gegliederten Milchrohren der 



Pflanzen, 1881. University of Wiirzburg. 



Scudder, Samuel H The tertiary lake-basin at Florissant,Colorado. The Author. 



The pine moth of Nantucket, Retiu'i frustrana. The Author. 



Secard, H. Elements de zoologie, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, reports, A'^ ; C* ; C^ ; D^, Vol. 1 ; 



Atlas to D3, Vols. 1 and 2 ; D^ ; I* ; T^. The Commissioners. 



Progress of the survey of the anthracite coal fields. 



Memorandum for the information of the legislature. 



Report of the Board of Commissioners to the Legislature, January 1, 1883. 



H. C. Lewis. 

 Seebohm, H. A history of British birds. Parts 1 and 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Selenka, E. Studien Uber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Thiere. les H., 



1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippien, 2er Th., SerBd.; 6 H., 4er 



Bd. ; le Abth,, le Hiilfte. Wilson Fund. 



Servain, George. Histoire malacologique du Lac Balaton en Hongrie, 1881. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Shaler, N. S., and W. M. Davis. Illustrations of the earth's surface. Glaciers. 



1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Shepard, Charles Upham. On Aerolites. Catalogue of meteoric collection. 



The Author. 



Sheridan, P. H. Report of an exploration of parts of Wyoming, Idaho and 



Montana, in August and September, 1882. The Author. 



Shufeldt, R. W. Contributions to the anatomy of birds. The Author. 



Smithsonian Institution. List of foreign correspondents, corrected to January, 



1882. Additions and corrections to same to January, 1883. 

 Annual report of the Board of Regents for the year 1881. 

 Miscellaneous collections. Vols. 22-27. The Institution. 



Soler, Sebastian Vidal y. Inspeccion general de Montes. Comission de la 



Flora forestal. Resena de la flora del Archipelago Filipino. The Author. 



Soret, J. L., et E. Sarasin. Sur la polarisation rotatoire du quartz. 1882. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 South African Museum, report of the Trustees, 1882. The Curator. 



Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus conchyliorum, Pts. 39 and 40. Wilson Fund. 



State Librarian of Iowa, biennial report, July 1, 1883. The Author. 



State School of Mines, Golden, Colorado, catalogue of the, 1882-83. 



The Trustees. 

 Statistische Mittheilungen Uber den Civilstand der Stadt Frankfurt a. M. im 



Jahre 1882. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. On the history and distribution of fresh-water mussels. 



Verification of the habitat of Conrad's Mytilus bifurcatus. The Author. 

 Stearns, W. A., and E. Coues. New England bird life. Parts I and II. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Stewart, Balfour. Lesson in elementary physics, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Stevenson, W. C, Jr. Ellis North American Fungi. Alphabetical Index. 



Centuries I-X. The Author. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Suess, E. Das Antlitz der Erde. le. Abth. 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Surgeon General of the Navy, sanitary and statistical report of the, for the 



years 1880 and 1881. Navy Department. 



Svenonius, F. V. Bidragtill Norrbottens Geologi. Geological Survey of Sweden. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Underscikning. Ser. Aa, No's 70, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86 ; 



Ser. Bb. 1, 2; Ser. C. 45-52 Sjunde Haftet. Bladen 19, 20 and 21. 



Ramnas,' " AVargarda " och " Ulricehamn." 7 sheets. 



Geological Survey of Sweden. 

 Thomson, C. 0. The modern polytechnic school, 1883. The Author. 



Tischner, Aug. The sun changes its position in space, therefore it cannot be 



regarded as being "in a condition of rest." The Author. 



Tonks, Edmund. General index to Latin names and synonyms of the plants 



depicted in the first hundred and seven volumes of Curtis's Botanical 



Magazine, 1883. Thos. Meehan, through the Botanical Section. 



Trouessart, E. L. Catalogue systematique, synonymique et geographique des 



mammifferes vivants et fossils. 3 Nos. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Tschermak, G. Lehrbuch der Mineralogie. 1 and 2 Lief., 1881. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Manual of conchology. Pts. 17—20. 



Structural and systematic conchology. I, II, 1883. The Author. 



United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, report of the superintendent of the, 



showing the progress of the work during the fiscal years ending with 



June, 1880 and 1881. Treasury Department. 



United States Fish Commission. Bulletin of the. Vol. II, 1882. 



The Commission. 

 United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, 1878. 



2 vols, and atlas. 1883. Department of the Interior. 



University of Kiel. Fifteen theses, 1881-82. The University. 



University of Louvain. Thirteen theses, 1881-82. The University. 



University of Pennsylvania, annual reports of the Provost and Treasurer, 



Oct. 1, 1883. The Trustees. 



University of Wijrzburg. Fifteen theses. The University. 



Veth, P. J. Midden-Sumatra, 1877-1879. Four vols, in seven, and atlas, folio. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Vogt, C. Lemons sur les animaux utiles, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Vogt und Specht. Die Saugetiere in Wort und Bild. Lief. 1-20 Jos. Jeanes. 

 Vogt, C, und Emil Yong. Trait^ d'anatomie comparee pratique. Ire and 2e. 



L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wachsmuth, Chas. On a new genus and species of Blastoids. Descriptions 



of some new Blastoids from the Hamilton Group. The Author. 



Wachsmuth. Chas., and F. Springer. Remarks on Glyptocrinus and Reteo- 



crinus, two genera of Silurian Crinoids. The Authors. 



Wainvyright, Samuel. Scientific sophisms, 1883. Rev. H. C. McCook. 



War Department Library, alphabetical catalogue, 1882. The Department. 



Warren, Cbarles. Answer to inquiries about the United States Bureau of 



Education, 1883. Department of the Interior. 



Warren, Maj.-Gen. G. K. Findings of the Court of Inquiry in the case of. 



The War Department. 

 Watson, Rev. R. Boog Mollusca of H. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition. 



Pts. 15 and 16. The Author. 



Watson, Sereno. Contributions to American botany, XI, 1883. The Author. 

 Weismann, Aug. Die Entstellung der Sexualzellen bei den Hydromedusen. 



Text and atlas. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Westerlund, Carl Agardh. Monographia Clausiliarum in regione palaeoarctica 



viventium. 1878. Jos. Jeanes. 



Westwood and Satchell. Biblotheca piscatoria. 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wesleyan University. Eleventh annual report of the curator of the museum. 



1882. The Author. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



White, Chas. A. Review of the non-marine fossil mollusca of North America. 



1883. The Author. 



White, F. Buchanan. Some thoughts on the distribution of British Butterflies. 



Observations sur I'armure g^nitale de plusieurs espfeces fran9aises de 



Zygaenidse. 

 List of Hemiptera collected in the Amazons by Prof. J. W. H. Trail, M. A., 



in the years 1873-1875, with descriptions of the new species. 

 Descriptions of New Hemiptera. I. 



The mountain Lepidoptera of Britain, their distribution and its causes. 

 Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. Challenger. Part XIX. Report on 



the Pelagic Hemiptera. 



On the male genital armature of European Rhopalocera. 



On the botany of the '-Jardin" of Mont Blanc. Notice of two messes 



new to science. The Authors. 



White, Rev. W. F. Ants and their ways. London, n. d. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Whitehouse, F. Cope. Is Fingal's Cave artificial? The Author. 



Williams, Alb., .Jr. Department of the Interior. U. S. Geological Survey. 



AJineral Resources of the United States. Department of the Interior. 



Windeyer, Justice. Commemorative address on the celebration of the oOth 



anniversary of the Sidney Mechanics' School of Arts, March 22, 1883. 



The Author. 

 WoUaston, T. Vernon. Testacea Atlantica. 1878. Jos. Jeanes. 



Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania. 34th annual announcement. 



The College. 



Yarrel, Wm. A history of British birds. 4th Ed., by Alfred Newton. Parts 



16 and i7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Yellowstone National Park. 1883. F. V. Hayden. 



Zincken, C.F. Diegeologischen Horizonteder fossilen Kohlen. 1883. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zittel. Handbuch der Palaeontologie. I, 2 Abth., 2 Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoological Record. XVIII, 1881. Wilson Fund. 



Journals and PERioriiCALS. 



Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeelingen, 

 Afd. Letterkunde, 2e Reeks, 11 Deel, Naamen-en Zaakregister, I-XIl. 

 Afd Naturkunde, 2e Reeks, 17 Deel. 

 Jaarboek, 1881. 



Processen-Verbal, Afd. Nat. Mei 1881— Apr. 1882. 



Verhandlungen. Afd. Nat. Deel 22. Afd Letterk., Deel 15. The Society. 



Angers. Soci^te d'^tudes scientitiques. lime and V2me Annies. The Souiety. 



Auxerre. Soci^te des Science historiques et naturelles de I'Yonne. Bulletin, 



Vol. 36me. Tables analytiques, 1867-78. The Society. 



Baltimore. American Chemical Journal, IV, 5 — V, 5. The Editor. 



American Journal of Mathematics, pure and applied, V, 1 — VI. 2. 



The Editor. 



Johns Hopkins University. Report, 7th year. The President. 



Peabody Institute. 16ih annual report. The Trustees. 



Basel. Schweizerische paliiontologische Gesellschaft, IX. The Society. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsth Indie. Natuurkundig 



Tijdschrift, 8e Ser. Deel 2. The Society. 



Belfast. Naturalists' Field Club. Annual report, Ser. 2, Vol. II. Part 2. 



The Society. 

 Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, 1881-82, 1882-83. 



The Society. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Berlin. Archiv fiir Xaturgeschichte, 47er Jahr., 6; 48er Jahrg., 4 — 49er 

 Jahr., 4. The Editor. 



Botanischer Jahresbericht (Just), 7er Jahr., le Abth., 2 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Deutsche botanische Gesellschaft, Statutes und Reglement, 1883. 



The Society. 

 Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XXXIV, 2— XXXV, 1 . 



The So.ietj. 

 Entomologische Verein. Deutscher entomologische Zeitschrift. 27er 

 Jahr., 1, 2. The Society. 



Entomologischer Verein in Berlin. Berliner entomologische Zeitschrift. 

 27er Bd., 1, 2. The Society. 



Garten-Zeitung (Wittmack), 1882, 1-12. The Editor. 



Gesellschaft Naturforscheude Freunde. Sitzungs-Berichte, 1882. 



The Society. 

 Jahrbucher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik (Pringsheim), XIV, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K. Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, mathe- 

 matische, 1882 ; physikalische, 1882. 



Monatsbericht, 1836, 1854, 1855, 1856 and December, 1877. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 1S82, XXXIX-LIV— 1883, I-XXXVII. The Society. 

 Der Naturforscher, XV, 27-XVI, 39. The Editor. 



NatuiBe Noviiates, 1882, No. 21—1883, No. 19. The Publishers. 



Zeitschrift tiir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften, LV, LVI, 1, 2. 



The Editor. 

 Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 1030-1063. The Society. 

 Besan9on. Academic des Sciences, belles-lettres et arts, 1882. The Society. 

 Beziers. Society d'^tude des sciences naturelles. Bulletin, 5e annee. 



The Society. 

 Bistritz. Gewerbeschule. Jahresbericht, 8er. The Director. 



Bonn. Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomic, XXII, 1-XXIII, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturhistorische Verein. Verhandlungen, Supplement, 39er Jahrg. 2es H. 



The Society. 



Bordeaux. Academie nationale des sciences, belles-lettres et arts. Actes, 3e 



Ser.. 42e An. The Society. 



Societe des sciences physique et naturelles. M^moires, 2e Ser. IV, 3 — 



V, 2. The Society. 



Boston. American Academy of arts and sciences. Proceedings, XVIII. 



The Society. 



American monthly microscopical journal. 111,12 — IV, 11. The Editor. 



Scientific and literary gossip, I, 2. The Editor. 



Science record, II, 1. The Editor. 



Society of natural history. Proceedings, XXI, p. 433 — XXII, p. 224; 



also, XXI, Part 4 and XXII, Part 1. Tne Society. 



Zoolc gical Society. Quarterly journal, I, 3 — 11,4. The Society. 



Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic, XIV, 3, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bremen. Naiurwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen, VIII, 1. The Society. 



Briinn. Naturforscheuden Verein. Verhandlungen, XX. 



Bericht der Meteorologischen Commission, 1881. The Society. 



Bruxelles. Academie royale des sciences, des lettres et des beaux-arts de 

 Belgique. Bulletin, annee, VI, 7 and 8. The Society. 



Societe Beige de microscopic. Bulletin, 25 Nov., 1883 — Vol. IX, II. 



The Society. 

 Societe entomologique de Belgique. Compte-Rendu, Ser. Ill, Nf^. 29, 37. 



The Society. 



Societe malacologique. Annales XIV, XVI. Proces-Verbaux, 5 Feb. — 



2 Juil, 1882. The Society. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Buda-Pest. Gazette de Hongrie. II, 34 — IV, 28. Hungarian National Museum. 

 M. T. Akademia, III. Osgldly^nak Kiilon Kiadvanya, 1881, 1, 2; 1882,3. 

 Ungarische Revue, 1882. H. 7-10. The Society. 



Ungarischen National-Museum. Naturhistorische Heft. Bd. I-VI. 



The Director. 

 Buenos Aires. Sociedad Cientifica Argentina. Anales XV, 1-6— XVI, 1-4. 



The Society. 

 Caen. Acad^mie Nationale des sciences, arts et belles-lettres. Memoires, 1882. 



The Society. 

 Soci^t^ Linn^enne de Normandie. Bulletin, 3e Ser., Vols. 5 and 6. 



The Society. 



Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Proceedings, 1802, No. 1 ; 1888, No. «. 



Journal. Vol. 50, extra number to Part 1 ; Vol. 51, Pt. 2, Nos. 2-4; 



Vol. 52, Pt. 1, Nos. 1, 2, The Society. 



Another copy. Isaac Lea. 



Stray Feathers, X, 4, 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Cambridge. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, III, 2. The Club. 



Entomological Club. Annual reports, 1882. The Club. 



Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 24-26. The Trustees. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, VIII, 2; IX, 1. 



Report, 188V-81; 1881-82. 



Bulletin, VII, 9, 10 ; X, 2-6 ; XI. 1, 2. The Director. 



Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin. VIII, 1-4. The Club. 



Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. Annual 



report, 15th. The Director. 



Science, Nos. 1-42 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. VI, 1-5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht, 29er, 30er. The Society. 



Catania. Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Atti, 8a Ser., T. 16. 



The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Soci^t^ nationale des sciences naturelles. Memoires, T. 23. 



The Society. 

 Chicago. American Antiquarian, V, 1-3. The Editor. 



American Chemical Review, III, 2. The Editor. 



Lhristiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, VII, 2 — VIII, 2. 



The Editor. 

 Cincinnati. Ohio Mechanics' Institute. Scientific Proceedings, I, 4 — II, 2. 



The Institute. 



The Paleontologist, No. 7. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. .Journal VI, 1-3. The Society. 



Zoological Society, 9th annual report. The Society. 



Congres international des Orientalistes. Compte-rendu. T. 3me. 



Smithsonian Inst. 

 Copenhagen. K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 1882, No. 2; 1883, 

 No. 1. 



Skrifter, 6me Ser., I, 6; II, 8. The Society. 



Naturhistoriske Forening. Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1882, I. 



The Society. 



Society Royale des Antiquaires du Nord. Memoires, n. s., 1882-83-84. 



Tillaeg, 1881. The Society. 



Crawfordville. Botanical Gazette, VII, 12— VIIT, 11. The Editor. 



Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriflen, n. f., V. 4. The Society. 



Davenport. Academy of Sciences. Proceedings, III, 3. The Society. 



Dijon. Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-lettres. Memoires, An. 



1881-82. The Society. 



Dorpat. Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, VI, 2. 



Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv.-Ehst-und Kurlands, le Ser., IX, 1, 2; 

 2e Ser., VIII, 4. The Society. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Dresden. K. Leop. Carol.-Deutschen Academie der Naturforsoher. Nova 

 Acta, Vols. 42 and 43. 



Leopoldina. H. 17. The Society. 



K. Mineralogisch-geologische und prsehistorische Museum. Mitthie- 

 lungen. 5 H. The Director. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis, 1882, Juli; 1883, Juni. 



The Society. 

 Dublin. Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings, Science, III, 9, 10; Polite 

 Literature, II, 4. 

 Transactions, Science, XXVIII, 11-13; Polite Literature, XXVII, 5. 



The Society. 

 Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, XIV, 3. 



The Society. 

 Geological Society, Transactions, IV, 2. The Society. 



Physical Society, Proceedings, 1881-82. The Society. • 



Scottish Naturalist, n. s. Nos. 1 and 2. 

 Florence. Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano. Caruel, XIV, 1 — XV, 4. 



The Editor. 

 R. Aciademia Petrarca di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti in Arezzo. Adunanza 

 solenne in onore di Guido Monaco ; di Andrea Cassalpino ; Studi di 

 Guido Monaco ; a Guido Monaco Aretino; Musica e Civilia Tosi. 



The Society, 

 Frankfurt a. M. Aerztliche Verein. Jahresbericht, XXVI. 



Deutschen Malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbucher, X, 1-4 



Nachrichtsblatt, 188:^, No. 11 ; 1883, Nos. 1. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8. The Society, 

 Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XIII. 

 1 and 2. 



Bericht, 1881-82« The Society. 



Gand. Archives de Biologie. Van Beneden und Van Bambeke. Ill, 3 — IV, 



I. I. V. Williamson Fund, 

 Genoa. Society di Letture e Conversazioni Scientifiche, Giornale VI, 9 — VII, 



II. The Society, 

 Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie. Fittica. 1881. 



Nos. 1-4. The Editor. 



Oberhessische Gesellschaft fur Natur- und Heilkunde. 22er Bericht. 



Glasgow. Geological Society. Transactions, VII, 1. The Society. 



Natural History Society. Proceedings, V, 1. The Society. 



Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XIII, 2. The Society. 



Gottingen. K. Gesellschaft der Wisseaschaften. Nachrichten, 1882. 



The Society. 



Qotha. Dr. A. Petermann's Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes' geographischer 



Anstalt, 1869-1875; 1876,1-6; 1877,7-12; 1878-1882; 1883,1-10, 



Erganzungsheft, 52-73. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Graz. Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1882. The Society. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Verein flir Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1882. 



The Society. 

 Halifax. Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sciences. Proceedings and Trans- 

 actions, IV, 4. The Society. 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XVI, 1. 



Bericht, 1882. The Society. 



Hamburg. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen, VII, 2. 



Verhandlungen, n. f.. VI. The Society. 



Hannover. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht 31 & 32. The Society. 

 Harlem. Mus6e Teyler. Archives, 2e Ser., 3e Partie. The Director. 



8oci6t^ Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives, XVII, 3 — XVIII, 1. 



The Society. 

 Heidelberg. Naturhistorisch-medicinische Verein, Verhandlungen, n. f., 



III. 2. The Society. 



24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1883. 



Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Ofversigt, XXIV, 

 Bidrag. 37, 38. 



Acta, XII. The Society. 



Hermannstadt. Siebenburgische Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Verhand- 



lungen und Mittheilungen, XXXII. The Society. 



Jena. Medicinisch-naturwissenschaflliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift XVI, n. 



f., 1-3. 



Sitzungsberichte, 1882. The Society. 



Kansas City. Kansas City Review, VI, 8— VII, 7. The Editor. 



Kiel. Universitat. Schriften, Bd 28er. The University. 



Klagenfurt. Landesmuseum. Carinthia, 1883, 1-7. The Director. 



Konigsberg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, XXIII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Lausanne. Soci6t6 Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, No. 88. 



The Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual Report, 1882-83. 



The Society. 



Leiden. Nederlandische Dierkundige Vereeniging. Tijdschrift, Deel VI, 1 ; 



Supplement, Deel I, 1. The Society. 



Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologie. Anatomische Abtheilungen, 



1882, 4-6 H. ; 1883, 1-3 H. Physiologische Abtheilungen, 1882, 5 & 6 



H.; 1883, 1-3 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Botanischer .lahrbiicher. Engler. Ill, 5 — IV, 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Fiirstlich Jablonowski'schen Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht, 1882. 



The Society. 

 Jahresberichte iiber die Fortschritte der Anatomie und Physiologie. 

 Hoffmann und Schwalbe. X, 2 Abth. ; XI, 1 & 2 Abth.. 1 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Jahrbiicher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik, XIII, 4; XIV, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal fur Ornithologie, XXX, 4— XXXI, 3. I. V Williamson Fund. 



K. Siichsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhaudlungen, XII, 



7 & 8. 



Bericht uber die Verhandlungen, 1881. The Society. 



Morphologische Jahrbuch, VIII, 3 — IX, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1882. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fur Krystallographie und Mineralogie. Groth. VII, 4 — VIII, 



3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zeitschrift fiir wis&enschaftliche Zoologie. XXXVII, 4— XXXIX, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger. Nos 125-152. The Editor. 



Zoologische Station zu Neaptl. Mittheilungen, IV, 1-3. 



Zoologischer Jahresbericht, I — IV. The Director. 



Lisbon. Academia Real das Sciencias. Journal de Sciencias mathematicas 

 phys, e nat V, 24-32 

 Sessao publica, 1880. 



Memorias. Classe des Sciencias mathemat. phys. et nat. n. s. V, 2 ; 



VI, 1. The Society. 



Associacao dos Engenheiros Civis Portuguezas. Revista de Obras publicas 



e minas, Nos. 154-164. The Society. 



London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 1882, No. 61 — 1883, 



No. 71. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Astronomical Register, Nos. 240-251. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report, 52d meeting. 



The Association. 

 Chemical Society. Journal, Nos. 241-252. The Society. 



Curtis's Botanical Magazine, Nos. 1149-1161. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Electrician. X, 1— Xli, 1. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. Transactions. 1883,1,11,111. The Society. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



The Gardener's Chronicle, Nos. 464-516. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine, Nos. 222-233. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 152-155 and Lists. 



The Society. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip. Nos. 216-227. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ibis. 5th ser., 1-4, and Supplement. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. XVII, 2 — XVIII, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nos. 240-251. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Conchology. Ill, 10— IV, 3. The Editor. 



Journal of Physiology. Michael Foster. IV, 1-3, and Supplement. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Science. 3d Ser., No. 108-119. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Knowledge. Nos. 53-104. The Editor. 



Linnean Society, Journal, Botany, Nos. 122-129 ; Zoology, Nos. 95-100. 



Transactions, 2d ser. Zoology, II, 6-8 ; Botany, II, 2-5. 



Lists, 1881 and 1882. 



Proceedings, March, 1883. The Society. 



London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosphical Magazine, 1882, No. 90— 

 1883, No. 101. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical 

 Magazine and Journal, Nos. 23 and 24. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Nature. Nos. 682-733. The Editor. 



Notes and Queries. No. 39. The Editor. 



Quarterly Journal Microscopical Science, n. s.. No. 89 — 5th ser. No. 92. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, XIV, 4 — 



XV, 3. The Society. 



Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, IV, 10— V, 10. The Society. 



Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, IX, 4 — X, 1, and 



Lists. The Society. 



Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, 2d ser., II, 6— III, 5. The Society. 



Same, I, 3 ; II, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Royal Society. Proceedings, Nos. 221-226. 



Philosophical Transactions, Vol. 173, Nos. 2-4; Vol. 174, No. 1. 

 Catalogue of Library, II. The Society. 



Scientific Roll, Nos. 10, 11. The Editor. 



Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 30. The Society. 



Society for Physical Research. Proceedings, I, 2, 3. The Society. 



Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record, Nos. 177-190. 



The Publishers. 

 Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1881, No. 4; 1882, Nos. 3,4; 1883, 

 Nos. 1 and 2. 

 Transactions, Vol. X, 2; XI, 7 and 8. 



List of Fellows, 1883. The Society. 



The Zoologist. Nos. 72-83. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



London. Can. The Canadian Entomologist. XIV, 10— XV, 9. The Editor. 



Louisville. Polytechnic Society of Kentucky. Reports and Proceedings, 



April 16, 1883. The Society. 



Louvain. University Catholique. Annuaire, 47e Annee. 



Fourteen Theses. The University. 



Lund. University. Acta, XV, XVI. 



Accessions-Katalog, 1879-1881. The University. 



Lyon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires, Classe des 



Sciences. XXV. Classe des Lettres, XX. The Society. 



Society d'Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts utiles. Annales, 5me 



ser. Ill, IV. The Society. 



Society Linneenne. Annales, n. s. XXVIII, XXIX. The Society. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



Madison. Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters. Transactions, 



V The Society. 



Madrid. Memorial of Engineers. An. 37, No. 22— An. 38, No. 23. 



Melbourne. Royal Society of Victoria. Transactions and Proceedings, II — 



XVIII. The Society. 



Metz. Academie. M^moires, 1879-80. The Society. 



Society dhistoire naturelle. Bulletin, 5me Cahier, 2e Partie. The Society. 



Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Anales, VI. The Ministry. 



Museo nacional. Anales, III, 1-4. The Director. 



Revista Cientifica Mexicana, Nos. 23-25. The Editor. 



Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, VI, 4-16. 



The Society. 

 Milan. R. Istituto Lombard© di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti. Ser. II, Vols. 

 13 and 14. 

 Memorie, XIV, 3. 



Programma, 1882. The Society. 



Regio Istituto technico superiore. Programma 1869-70, 1872-73, 1875-76, 



1882-83, 1883-84. The Institute. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist, n. s., IV, 2 ; X, 7 and 8. The Editor. 



Numismatic and Antiquarian Society, Canadian Antiquarian, XI, 2. 



The Society. 



Moscow. Society Imp^riale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1881, No. 3 — 1883, 



No. 1. Tables Generale 1829-1881. 



Nouveaux Memoires, XIV, 2. The Society. 



Miinchen. Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. 



Eeitriige zur Anthropologic und Urgeschichte Bayerns. V, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, 1882, Nos. 2-5 



The Society. 



K. Sternwart. Beobachtungen, 1882. The Director. 



Nancy. Soci6t6 des Sciences. Bulletin, ser. 2, III, 13, 14. The Society. 



Naples. R. Accademia delle Scienze Fisische e Mathematiche, Atti, VII — 



IX. 



Rendiconti, Anni XV— XXI. The Society. 



L'Esplorazione, I, 1 The Editor, 



R. Istituto d' Incoraggiamento alle Scienze Naturali, economiche e techno- 



logiche. Atti, 2a Ser., I, III, V— VIII ; 3e Ser., I. 



Relazione, 1872, 1873, 1880. The Society. 



Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. 



Archiv, 35er und 36er Jahrg. The Society. 



New Haven. The American Journal of Science. 1882, No. 144 — 1883, No. 



155. The Editor. 



New York. Academy of Sciences. Transactions, I, 5 — II, 2. The Society. 



American Bookseller, XIV, 5. The Publisher. 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1882, No. 2—1883, No. 2. 



The Society. 

 American Journal of Microscopy, VI, 10-12. The Editor. 



American Monthly Microscopical .Journal, IV, 1-2. The Editor. 



American Museum of Natural History. 14th Annual report. Bulletin 

 No. 4. The Director. 



Forest and Stream. XIX, No. 18 -XXI, No. 17. The Editor. 



Journal of the Telegraph, XV, 353, 354. The Editor. 



Library Journal, Vll, 11— VIII, 8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Linnean Society. Transactions, I. The Society. 



New York Medical Journal, XXXVI. No. 6. Weekly Issue, XXXVII, 

 1-21. The Editor. 



Popular Science Monthly, Jan.— Dec, 1883. The Editor. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, IX, 12— X, 9. The Society. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Offenbach am Main. Verein fiir Naturkunde. 22er und 23er Bericht. 



The Society. 



Orleans. Society d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Metnoires, 



2e ser., XXIII, 3, 4. The Society. 



Palermo. II Naturalista Siciliano, II, 12— III, 2. The Editor. 



Society, di Acclimazione ed Agricoltura in Sicilia. Giornale ed Atti XXII, 



I— XXII, 8. 



Memoria Scientifica premiata per concorso dal Congresso Agrario nel 



1875. The Society. 



Society di Scienze Naturali et economiche. Giornale, XV. The Society. 



Paris. Annales des Mines, 8me ser., I, 4 — III, 2. Table des Mafieres de la 



VI le serie. Minister of Public Works. 



Annales des Sciences G^ologiques. XIV, 1. The Editor. 



Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zoologie et Paleontologie, XIV, 1 — 



XV, 4. Botanique, XIV, 4— XVI, 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Archiyes de Zoologie experimentale et generale, 1882, No. 4 — 1883, No. 2. 



, I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ecole poly technique. Journal, 51 e et 52e Cah. The Director. 



Institution ethnographique. Annuaire, 1878. 



Comptes-Rendu des Seances, 1876-77. Smithsonian Institution. 



Journal de Conchyliologie, XXII, 3— XXIII, 2. The Editor. 



Journal de Micrographie, 7me An., Nos. 1, 2, 7-9. The Editor. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle. Nouvelle Archives, 2e s^r , V, 1. 



The Museum. 

 Le Naturaliste, Nos. 22-45. The Editor. 



Revue d'Ethnographie, II, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue Geographiqne internationale, Nos. 92-95. The Editor. 



Revue Internationale des Sciences, 1882, No. 11—1883, No. 8. The Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etracger, 3e ser., 2e An., No. 21 — 

 3e An., No. 20. The Editor. 



Soci6t^ d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, IX, 10— X, 9. The Society. 



Soci6t6 Americaine de France. Annuaire, lfc82. The Society. 



Soci^t^ des Antiquaires de Picardie. Memoires, VII. 



Bulletins, XIV, 1880-82. The Society. 



Society Botanique de France. Bulletin, Revue Bibl. E. Session Extraor- 

 dinaire, Fontainbleu. The Society. 

 Society Entomologique de France Annales, 6me Ser. I and II. 



The Society. 

 Soci^t^ Ethnographique. Actes 1875, 1877. 



Annuaire, 1876. Smithsonian Institution. 



Social Geologique de France. Bulletin, VIII, 7; X, 3-6; XI, 1-3, 5, 6. 



The Society. 

 Soci^t^ Min^ralogique de France. Bulletin, V, 8 — VI, 6. The Society. 

 Societe nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, An., 1882, No. 10 — 

 1883, No. 7. The Society. 



Society Scientifique de la Jeunesse. T.. II-IS'^. F. V. Hay den. 



SociSt^ Zoologique. Bulletin, T., Ill; 2e An., 6e Partie ; 4e An., 5e and 

 6e ; 5e An., 3e and 4e ; 7e An., 2e, 4e ; 5e, 5e bis and 6e ; 8e An., le-3e. 



The Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1882, III — 1883, I. 

 Amateur Naturalist, I, 5, 6. The Editor. 



The American, I, 7. The Editor. 



American Journal of Medical Sciences. Jan —Oct., 1883. The Editor. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. Dec, 1882 — Nov., 1883. The Editor. 

 American Naturalist, XVI, 12— XVII, 11. The Editor. 



American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 30th annual meeting. 



The Society. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 112 and 118. 



Transactions, XVI, 1, The Society. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1883. 



College of Pharmacy. Alumni Association, 19th annual report. 



The Society. 



The Dental Cosmos, XXIV, 12— XXV. 11. The Editor. 



Engineers' Club. Proceedings, III, 3, 4; List of Members. The Club. 



Franklin Institute. Journal, Nos. 685-696. The Society. 



The Gardener's Monthly, Dec, 1882— Nov., 1883. The Editor. 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of History 



and Biography, VI, 3— VII, 3. The Society. 



Library Company of Philadelphia. Bulletin, July. The Directors. 



Literary Era, I, 1-11. The Publishers. 



Medical News and Abstract, No. 468. The Editor. 



Medical Register. I, 11 : II, 1, 3-5. Ihe Editor. 



Mercantile Library Bulletin, I, 2-4. The Directors. 



Naturalists' Leisure Hour, Nov., 1882— July, 1883. The Publisher. 



Wagner Free Institute of Science. Announcement, 1883. The Institute. 



Zoological Society, 11th annual report. The Society. 



Pisa Societa Malacologica Italiana. BuUettino, V-VIII. The Society. 



Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Atti, Adunanza del Nov. 2, 1882. 



Memorie, V, 2. - The Society. 



Port of Spain. Scientific Association of Trinidad. Proceedings, Part 12. 



The Society. 

 Poughkeepsie. Vassar Brothers' Institute. Transactions, I. The Institute. 

 Prag, K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Sitzangsberichte, 1881. 

 Jahresbericht, 1881, 1882. 



Abhandlungen, 6e Folge, XI. The Society. 



Princeton. E. M. Museum of Geology and Archaeology of the College of New 

 Jersey. Bulletin, No. 3. 



First annual report, 1882. The Curator. 



Quebec. Literary and Historical Society. Sessions of 1882 — 83. The Society. 

 Regensburg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, n. r., 40er Jahrg. 



The Society. 

 Zoologisch-mineralogische Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt, 36er Jahrg. 



The Society. 



Riga. Naturforscher-Verein. Correspondenzblatt, 25er Jahrg. The Society. 



Rio de Janeiro. Museo Nacional. Archives, IV and V. The Director. 



Observatorie Imp^riale. Bulletin astronomique et m^teorologique, 1882, 



No. 10—1883, No. 7. 



Annales, I. The Observatory. 



Rochester. Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, II, 1. The Publisher. 



Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti, VII 1-14. The Society. 



Society degli Spettroscopisti Italiani. Memorie XII, 8-11. The Society. 



Saint John. Natural History Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin, No. 2. 



The Society. 

 St. Louis. Missouri Historical Society, No. 7. The Society. 



St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Memoires XXX, 2-11; 

 XXXI, 1 and 2. 



Bulletin, XXVIII, 1, 3. The Society. 



Horti Petropolitani. Acta VIII, 1. The Society. 



Physikalische Central Observatorium. Annalen, 1881, No. 2. The Director. 



Societas Entomologica. Horse XV, XVI. The Society. 



Springfield. Illinois Industrial University, 11th report, 1882. The Trustees. 



Staunton. The Virginias, III, 11— IV, 11. The Editor. 



Stockholm. Acta Mathematica, I, 1 The Editor. 



Entomologisk Tidskrift, III, 4. The Editor. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademiens. Bihang VII, 1, 2. The Society. 



Stuttgart. Humboldt, I. 1— II, 12. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kosmos, VI, 8— VII, 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie, Geologic und Palseontologie, 1882, II, 3, 



Beilage Bd. 2; 1883, I, 1-3, Beilage Bd. 3 ; II, 1, 2. The Editor. 




1883.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Switzerland, Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, 1881-82. 



The Society. 

 Sydney. Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, VII, 2 — VIII, 2. 



The Society. 

 Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, XV. 



The Society, 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Papers, Proceedings and Reports, 1881. 



The Society. 

 Torino. Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Atti, XVIII, 1-3. The Society. 



Toronto. Entomol igical Society. Annual Reports, 1878, 1882. 



General Index, 1870-1882. The Society. 



Toulouse. Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Memoires 

 IV, 1, 2. 



Annuaire 1882-83. The Society. 



Societ^ d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, lome and 16me Ann6e. The Society. 

 United States. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Pro- 

 ceedings, XXXI, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Society of Naturalists of the Eastern United States. Constitution and By- 

 Laws, 1883 The Society. 

 Upsal, Observatoire de I'Universite. Bulletin Meteorologique, XIV. 



The Director. 

 Urbana. Illinois Industrial University. Catalogue and Circular. The Trustees. 

 Utrecht. K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. Jaarboek, 1882. 



The Institute. 



Venice. L'Ateneo Veneto. Ser. VII, Vol. I, 6 ; II, 1, 2. The Society, 



R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti, Ser. VI, T. 1-10, 



Append. VIII, 1-10. The Society. 



Vienna. Anthropologischen Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen XII, 3 — XIII, 1. 



The Society. 

 K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, 85 Bd., ler Abth , 

 I-V; 2e Abth., III-V : 3e Abth., I-V; 86 Bd., 2eAbth., I; 3e Abth., 

 I, II. Register 81 bis 85 Bd. 



Centralblatt fiir die gesammte Therapie, I, 11. The Editor. 



K. K. geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch 1882, No. 4—1883, No. 3. 



Verhandlungen, 1882, No. T^— 1883, No. 12. The Bureau. 



Mineralogische und Petrographische Mittheilungen, Tschermak. n. f., I- 



IV, V, 1-4. Jos. Jeanes. 



Wiener Illustrirte Garten-Zeitung, 1882, No. 10—1883, No. 7. The Editor, 



K. K. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXXII. 



The Society. 



Zoologische Institut. Arbeiten, IV, 3 ; V, 1. The Director. 



Washington. Philosophical Society. Bulletin, Vols. 4 and 5 The Society. 



United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, Vol. I, and 1882, p. 33— III, 



p. 17. The Commission. 



United States National Museum. Proceedings, 1881, p. 449 — VI, p. 14. 



Bulletin, Nos. 16 and 24, The Director. 



Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XV. The Institute. 



Westeras, Redogorelse for Hogre Allmanna L'aroverket, 1882-83. 



The Gymnasium. 

 Wiesbaden. Nassauische Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahrbucher, Jahrg. 35 



The Society. 

 Winnepeg. Manitoba Historical and Scientific Society. Annual report, 

 1882-83. 



Publications, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 



Worcester. Amfrican Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, II, 2, 3. Pa tial 



Index to Proceedings. List of Publications, 1883. The Society. 



Wiirzburg. Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1882. 



The Society. 





INDEX TO GENERA. 



1883. 



Abies 187, 191, 201, 256 



Acarus 45 



Accentor 26G 



Accipiter 66 



Acer 74 



Achsenodon 77 



Aerocephalus 266 



Acroloxus 216 



Actinosphaerium 125 



Addox 269 



Aegialites 67 



Agathaumas 99 



Agelseus 68 



Agonus 2v8 



Agosia 141, 153 



Aix 68 



Akebia 190 



Alburnops 143 



Alnus 190 



Amblystoma 14, 16, 23, 24, 33 



Amphiuma 177, 178 



Amiurus 132, 133, 161 



Amnicola 171 



Ampelis 62 



Amphileptus 318 



Anacbaris 107 



Anas 67 



Anchybopsis 144 



Ancylodon 289 



Ancylus 140, 214 



Andrognathus 28 



Anguilla 132, 133 



Aniella 32 



Anisonchus 56 



Anodonta 44, 140 



Anorthura 61 



Antrostomus 64 



Aphelops •■ ...- 301 



Aphododerus 132 



Apocope 141, 142, 152, 153 



Archibuteo 66 



Ardea 67 



Argiope 278 



Argynnis 36 



Arius 281 



Artimisia 19 



Astacus 165 



Astragalinus 62 



Atax 45, 46 



Attus 276 



Aviculopecten 213 



Bascaiiium..ll, 12, 17, 18, 19, 21, 



23, 29, 32, 83, 34, 85 



Batrachoseps 28 



Batracbus 291 



Belone 283 



Berberis 112 



Bernicla 67 



Bittium 172 



Blarina 82 



Boa 34 



Bolosaurus 69 



Bonasa 66 



Bos 266, 268 



Botaurus 67 



Bothrops 34 



Brachycybe 27 



Brachyopsis 293 



Breviceps 57 



Bubo 65 



Bufo..l4, 15, 17, 18, 19, 23, 25, 82, 38 



Buteo 66 



Butorides 67 



Callisaurus 85 



Camelus 269 



Camponotus 303 



Canis 88 



Caprimulgus 266 



(369) 




370 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1883. 



Caranx 284 



Cardinalis 63 



Cariacus 275 



Caiinifex 137, 140 



Carpodacus 62 



Cathartes 66 



Catostomus 134, 150, 152, 153, 159 



Causus 67 



Centaurea 192 



Centetes 81, 83 



Centurus 65 



Oerasus 201 



Ceri hidea 173 



Certhia 60 



Cervus 166 



Ceryle 65 



Chsetura 64 



Charina 21, 23 



Chasmistes 148, 152 



Chelydobairachus 57 



» hilonyx 69, 108 



Cbiromys 77 



('hloroscombrus 284 



Chonetes 213 



Chordedilei! 64 



Chriacus 80, 83 



Chrysocbloris 78, 81, 83 



Cionodoa ...99, 104 



Cirsium 193 



Clangiila 68 



Wastes 107 



Clepsydrops 1''8 



tliaostomus 148 



Cliola 132, 133, 142, 153 



Cneoiidophorus 11, 12, 14, 15, 



19, 32, 35 



Coccygus 65 



Colaptes 65 



Colymbus 68 



Condylura 82 



Coniopbanes 34 



Conoryctes 168 



Contopus 64 



Corvina 288 



Corvus : 64 



Corylus 85 



Cottus 162, 293 



Colurnix 266 



Crania 213 



Cricetus 266, 268 



Cricosaura 29, 30 



Cricotus 108 



Crotalus 11, 13, 19, 21, 33 



Crotapbytus 10, 12, 14, 15, 18, 



82, 33, 35 



Cryptotopha 130 



Ctenodus... 109, 110 



Cuculus 266 



Cyanocitta 64 



Cygnus 67 



Cynodontomys 77 



Cynops 23, 25, 28, 33 



Cyrtopbyllum 44 



Dafila 68 



Dalea 296 



Deltatberium 81, 83 



Dendroeca 61 



Diabasis 287 



Diadopbis 12, 23, 27, 33, 34 



Diapterus 116 



Diasticbus 154, 158 



Diclonius 99, 104 



Didy modus 108 



Didelpbys 80, 81, 83 



Diemyctylua 25 



Diodipsas 57 



Diodoa 108 



Dioplotberium 52, 53, 54 



Dipus 266, 269 



Doli ebony X 63 



Drymobius 34 



Dysganus ^ 99 



Echinocactus 74, 75, 84 



Ectopisies 66 



Ectoateorbacbis 69 



Elaps 35 



Emberiza 266 



Empedias 10-> 



Empusa 302 



Enneacantbus 132 



Epbedra 276 



Epinepbelus 285, 291 



Equus 166, 266, 268 



Erimyzon 132, 133 



Erinaceus 81, 83 



Eriogonum.. 277 



Erisinatura 68 



Etytbrolampus 34 



Esox 132, 133 



Esthonyx 77, 78, 83 



Eucinostomus 116 



Eumeces 23, 27, 29, 32, 34 



Eutsenia 11, 12, 17, 21, 23, 28, 



29, 34, 36 



Exocoetus 283 



Fabricia 204, 2l2 



Falco 66 



Fenestella 213 



Ficimia .. 35 



Fissurella 249 



Forsytbia Ill 



Fringilla 266 



Fulica 67 



Fuligula 68 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



Galeopithecus 



Gallinago 



Garrulus 



Gazella 266, 268, 



Genj'anemus 



Genypterus 



Geothlypis 



Gerres 116, 



Gerrhonotus 23, 27, 28, 29, 32, 



Goniobasis 



Goniatites 



Grammy sia 



Gyalopium 



Gymnura 8l, 



Gyrinophilus 



HadrosauTus 99, 103, 



Haemulon 286, 



Haliaetus 



Halicore 



Haliotis 234, 



Halitherium 



Haploaspis 



Harelda 



Harporhynchus 



Helicops 



Heliophyllum 



Helix 



Helminthophaga 



Heloderma 29, 



Hemicaranx 



Hemicaulodon 



Hemisus 



Herodias 



Hirundo 



Holbrookia 10, 12, 18, 



Hoiualonotus 



HyffiQodon 



Hydrachne 



Hyliota 



Hylotomus 



Hypolai? 



Hypsibema 



Hypsiglena 32, 33, 



Hyla 20, 23, 



Hystrix 266, 



Icterus 



Ictops 



Isopisthus. 



Janassa 



Johnius.... 



Junco 



Juniperus. 



Laslaps,.. 

 Lagomys. 

 Lanius.... 



82 



67 



266 



269 



288 



293 



61 



289 



33 



171 



213 



213 



35 



83 



24 



106 



287 

 66 

 54 



249 

 52 

 13 

 68 

 60 

 34 



2i3 



223 

 39 

 35 



284 

 52 

 57 

 67 

 62 

 33 



213 

 79 

 45 



128 

 65 



266 

 99 

 35 

 25 



269 



63 

 81 



289 



108 



288 



63 



189 



100 



269 



62 



Larus 68 



Laurocerasus 20l 



Laurus 201 



Lepidophyma 29, 30 



Leptagonus 293 



Leptictis 81, 88 



Leptognathus 34 



Leucus 142, 144, 152, 153, 156 



Libocedrus 194 



LimniBus 217 



Limnochares 45 



Limopiera 2 3 



Liocephalus 34 



Lioplax 171 



Liriodendron 191 



Lonchurus 287 



Lonicera 256 



Lophophanes 60 



Lutjanus 285 



Lycosa 277 



Lymnsea 140 



Mabuia 34 



Machcerodus 169 



Mahonia 190 



Mamillaria 74 



Manayunkia 204, 212, 302 



Mastodon 166 



Megalonyx 166 



Melanerpes 65 



Melania 171 



Meleagris 6b 



Males 266, 268 



Melospiza 62 



Menopoma 178 



Menticirrus 287, 288 



Mergus 68 



Meriones 266, 268 



Mesogonistius 132, 133 



Mesonyx 78, 83 



Mesoprion 285 



Miacis 83 



Mimus 60 



Mioclaenus 78, 80, 83 



Minotilta 61 



Molotnrus 63 



Monoclonius 99 



Morus 302 



Moschus 269 



Motacilla 266 



Mugil 283 



Muraenopsis 177 



Mus 266, 268 



Muscicapa 128 



Myiarchus Qi 



Myiodioctes 61 



Mylocyprinus 154 



Myloleucus 142, 152, 153 



Mylopharyngodon 154 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1883. 



Myriophyllum 107 



Myrophis 282 



Mystomys 82 



Mythomys 78 



Myxus 283 



Nautilus 213 



Necturus 24 



Nimravus 169 



Nyctea 65 



Ophibolus 14, 29, 34, 35 



Ophidium 293 



Opisthognathus 290 



Opuntia 74, 84 



Ornithotarsus 99 



Orthis 213 



Orthoceras 213 



Ortyx 66 



Oryx 269 



Ovis 269 



Oxyteaa , 83 



Oxyopes 277 



Oxyrrhopus 34 



Paludomus 172 



Pandion 66 



Pautolamda 169 



Pantosteus 153 



Paracyclas 213 



Paralonchurus 287 



Parus 60 



Passer 62 



Passerella 63 



Passerina 63 



Patella 234, 249 



Pedicellina 204 



Pediculus 46 



Pelycodus 80 



Pelycosauria 69 



Peratherium 80 



Peryptychus 56, 168 



Perca 291 



Perdix 266 



Petrochelidon 62 



Phacops 213 



Phanerosaurus 108 



Pheidole 304 



Philohela 67 



Phimothyra 14, 35 



Phrynosoma 10, 12, 15, 18, 20, 



23, 28, 32, 33, 69 



Physa 140 



Picus 65 



Pinus 114, 194, 200 



Pipilo 63 



Pityophis 18, 21, 29, 34, 35 



Planorbis 140 



Platanus 201 



Platycodon 191 



Platystira 130 



Plectrophanes 62 



Plethodon ,.. 23, 24, 28 



Pliocercus 34 



Podicipes 68 



Podilymbus 68 



Podothecus 293 



Pooecetes 62 



Poecilichthys 132, 133 



Poephagus 2b9 



Pogonomyrmex 294, 304 



Polioptila 60 



Polycirrhus 288 



Pomadasys 286, 287 



Polyopthalmus 234 



Pompholyx 140, 174 



Porichthys 291 



Portulaca 84 



Porzana 67 



Prionotus 292 



Pristipoma 286 



Progne 62 



Prorastomus 52 



Proteus - 24 



Psittacotherium 77 



Psocus 278 



Pucetia 276 



Pyranga 61 



Pyrgula 171, 173 



Pyrua 190 



Quercus 37, 201 



Querimana 283 



Querquedula 68 



Quiscalus 64 



Raia 153 



Rallus 67 



Rana 10, 16, 20, 25, 28, 33, 56 



Raphidiophrys 95 



Reguliis 60 



Rbabdofario 161 



Rbadinffia 34 



Rhineastes 162 



Rhinichthys 153 



Rhinochilus 32, 33 



Rhizohydra 140 



Rbynchocyon 78 



Rhytina 54 



Ruticilla 266 



Saiga 269 



Salmo 138, 141, 162, 153, 161 



Salvelinus 141, 152 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



373 



Saxicola 266 



Sayiornis 64 



Scalops 82 



Scaphiopus 10, 15, 18, 33 



Scelidosaurus 97, 100 



Sceloporus 10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 



21, 23, 27, 28, 34, 35 



Scolecophagus 64 



Scops 65 



Scorpsena 292 



Sebastes 291 



Sebastodes 291 



Sedum 74 



Sempervivum 74 



Sequoia 193, 202 



Serranus 285 



Setophaga 61 



Sialia 60 



Sibon 34 



Siphateles 146, 152 



Siren 24, 56 



Sitta 60 



Siurus 61 



Solen 248 



Solenodon 78, 82, 83 



Spea 14, 15, 32, 33 



Spelerpes 24 



Sphyropicus 65 



Spilotes 35 



Spirifer 213 



Spizella 63 



Sporendonema 302 



Squalius 147, 152, 153, 156 



Stapelia 49 



Stelgidopteryx 62 



Stenostoma 11, 33, 34 



Streptorhynchus 213 



Strix 65 



Stromateus 231 



Sturnella 63 



Stypolophus 83 



Tamias 269 



Tarantula 131, 196 



Taxodium 201 



.187, 



Tegenaria 



Telmatodytes 



Thoracodus 



Ihuja 



Thujopsis 



Trachodon 



Tricula 



Trimorphodon 



Tringoides 



Trochilus 



roglodytes 



Tropidonotus 34, 



Tryonia 



Turdus 



Tylosurus 



Typha 



Tyrannus 



Uintatlierium 



Uma 



Umbra 



! Unio 46, 



Uranidea. 150, 



Urnatella 



Urotrichus 



Uta...lO, 12, 15, 18, 21. 28, 32, 33, 



Vellitia 



Verticaria 32, 



Viburnum 



Vireo 



197 



61 



108 



191 



187 



99 



171 



35 



67 



65 



61 



35 



171 



60 



283 



138 



64 



169 

 35 



132 

 58 



152 



204 

 82 

 35 



216 

 33 



201 

 62 



Wistaria 50 



Xantusia 29, 



Xenosaurus 



Xiphosoma 



Yucca 190, 



Yunx 



Zamelodia... 

 Zenaidura... 



Zetodon 



Zonotrichia. 



30 

 29 

 34 



191 

 266 



63 



66 



169 



63 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1883. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to Library, 344. 



Additions to Museum, 839. 



Allen, Harrison. The Spinal Chord of 

 Batrachia aud Reptilia, 56 ; Cuta- 

 neous Nerves in Mammals, 127. 



Barrande, .Joachim. Announcement of 

 death of, 203. 



Binder, Jacob. Report of the Curator 

 of the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, 336. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of 327. 



Botanical Section, report of, 331. 



By-Laws, amendment to, 279. 



Conchological Section, report of, 327. 



Cope, Alexis T. Announcement of 

 death of, 196. 



Cope, Edw. D. Notes on the Geograph- 

 ical Distribution of Batrachia and 

 Reptilia of Western North America, 

 9, 10; A New Extinct Genus of Si- 

 renia, 39, 52 ; The Tritubercular 

 Type of Superior ^Molar Tooth, 56 ; 

 On Dinodipsas and Causus, 67 ; Per- 

 mian Fishes and Reptiles, 69; On 

 the Mutual Relations of the Buno- 

 therian Mammalia, 72, 77 ; On the 

 Structure of the Skull of the Hadro- 

 sauridae, 95, 97 ; On some Vertebrate 

 Forms from the Permian of Illinois, 

 95, 108; On the Fishes of the Lakes 

 of the Western Part of the Great 

 Basin and of the Idaho Pliocene Lake, 

 111, 134; The Fishes of the Batsto 

 River, N. J., 132; On some Fossils 

 from the Puerco Formation, 168; 

 On extinct Rhinoceri from the South- 

 west, 301. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 319. 



Creeson, H. T. Note on a drilled Mall 

 in the Haldeman Collection of Anti- 

 quities, 43 ; Notes on Prehistoric 

 Copper Implements, 55 ; Aztec Music, 

 76, 86. 



Curators, report of, 322. 



Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Collec- 

 tions, report of, 336. 



Dawson, John C. Announcement of 

 death of, 190. 



Draper, Edmund. Announcement of 

 death of, 9. 



Elections during 1883, 338. 



Entomological Section, report of, 329. 



Evermann, B. W., and Seth E. Meek. 

 A Revision of the Species of Gerres 

 found in American Waters, 112, 116. 



Fielde, Adele M. Communication on 

 China, 312. 



Foulke, S. G. Observations on Actino- 

 sphaerium eichornii, 125. 



Garrett, Andrew. The Terrestrial 

 Mollusca inhabiting the Society Is- 

 lands, 39, 44. 



Heer, Oswald. Announcement of 

 death of, 203. 



Heilprin, Angelo. The Ice of the Gla- 

 cial Period, 46, 49 ; Phenomena of 

 Glaciation, 69 ; The Synchronism of 

 Geological Formations, 197 ; Election 

 as Curator and appointment as Cur- 

 ator-in-chargo, 202 ; Note on a Col- 

 lection of Fossils from the Hamilton 

 (Devonian) Group of Pike Co., Pa., 

 203, 213 ; On the Value of the Nearc- 

 tic as one of the Primary Zoological 

 Regions. Replies to Criticisms by 

 Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace and Prof. 

 Theodore Gill. 248, 266; Report of 

 Professor of Invertebrate Palaeon- 

 tology, 334. 

 Hess, R. J. Report of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section, 327. 



Hoopes, Josiah. Pinus Koraiensis, 



111, 114. 

 Horn, Geo. H. Report of Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 319. 

 Index to Genera, 369. 




1883.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



3T5 



Jordan, David S. Notes on American 

 Fishes, preserved in the Museum at 

 Berlin, London, Paris and Copen- 

 hagen, 265, 281. 



Koenig, Geo. A. Note on a new Gold- 

 purple, 75. 



Kowalewsky, W. Announcement of 

 death of, 203. 



Le Conte, John L. Announcement of 

 death cf, 265. 



Leidy, Jos. Urnatella gracilis, 39, 44 ; 

 On the Extinct Peccaries of North 

 America, 39, 44 ; On the Reproduc- 

 tion and Parasites of Anodonta flu- 

 viatilis, 44; OnPediculus vestimenti, 

 46 ; A flint nodule from the Green- 

 sand of New Jersey, 76 ; A Social 

 Heliozoon, 95 ; Minerological Notes, 

 202; Manayunkia speciosa, 203, 

 204 ; A Fungus infesting Flies, 302 ; 

 On Manayunkia, 302 ; Report of j 

 Curators, '622. 



Lewis, Graceanna, On the Genus Hy- i 

 liota, 125. 128. [ 



Lewis, H. C. On a supposed Human j 

 Implement from the Gravel of Phila- 

 delphia, 40 ; Change of Color in a | 

 Katydid, 44 ; The Ice of the Glacial j 

 Period, 47; Chalcedony containing I 

 Liquid, 49 ; The Phenomena of Gla- ! 

 ciation, 70; Crys-tallized Serpentine j 

 from Delaware, 72 : Gold from North 

 Carolina, 301 ; Report of Professor of i 

 Mineralogy, 334. 1 



Librarian, report of, 315. [ 



WcCook, Rev. H. C. Note on the In- 

 telligence of the American Turret 

 Spider, 131 ; Restoration of Limbs 

 in Tarantula, 196 : The Occident Ant 

 of Dakota, 265, 294 ; Note on two 

 new California Spiders and their 

 nests, 276 ; A Web-spinning Neur- 

 opterous Insect, 278; How a Car- 

 penter Ant Queen founds a Formi- 

 cary, 303. 



Magarge, Charles. Announcement of 

 death of, 197. 



Martindale, Isaac C. Obituary Notice 

 of Charles F. Parker, 203, 260. 



Meehan, Thos. On the Flowering of 

 the Stapelia, 49 ; Contraction of 

 Vegetable Tissue under Frost, 74 ; 

 Note on Echinocactus, 84; On the 

 Relations of Heat to the Sexes of 

 Flowers, 85 ; Observations on For- 

 Bythia, 111 ; Influence of Circum- 

 stances on Heredity, 112; Some 

 Evidences of Great Modern Geolog- 

 ical Changes in Alaska, 187 ; Exu- 



dation from Flowers in Relation to 

 Honey-Dew, 190; Irritability in the 

 Flowers of Centaureas and Thistles, 

 1^ 2 ; Notes on the Sequoia gigantea, 

 193 ; Longevity of Trees, 200 ; Notes 

 on Glaciers in Alaska, 249; Favor- 

 able Influence of Climate on Vegeta- 

 tion in Alaska, 255 ; Report of 

 Botanical Section, 33l. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section 

 of the Academy, Proceedings from 

 January 23, 1882. to November 26, 

 1883, 203, 241 ; Report of. 333. 



Mitchell, Charles L. Staining with 

 Htematoxylon, 265, 297. 



Mohr, Charles. On Quercus Durandii 

 Buckley, 9, 87. 



Morris, Chas. Election to Council, 39. 



Nolan, Edw. J. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 815; Report of Librarian, 

 319. 



Officers for 1884, ?37. 



Osborn, Henry F. Preliminary Obser- 

 vations on the Brain of Amphiuma, 

 170, 177. 



Parker, Andrew J. Reproduction in 

 Amphileptus fasciola, 812, 313. 



Parker, Chas. Announcement of death 

 of. 1&2; Obituary Notice of, 260. 



Professor of Invertebrate Palaeontol- 

 ogy, report of, 334. 



Professor of Mineralogy, report of,834. 



Rand, Theo. D. Report of the Min- 

 eralogieal and Geological Section, 

 333. 



Randolph, N. A. A Study of the Dis- 

 tribution of Gluten within the Starch 

 Grain, 801, 308. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 315. 



Redfield, J. H. Irritability in the 

 Flowers of Centaureas, 193; Report 

 of Botanical Section, 381. 



Reinhardt, J. T. Announcement of 

 death of, 9. 



Report of Recording Secretary. 315. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 319. 



Report of Librarian, 319. 



Report of the Curators, 322. 



Report of the Treasurer, 323. 



Report of the Biological and Micros- 

 copical Section, 827. 



Report of the Conchological Section, 

 327. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 329. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 331. 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 333. 




STG 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY. 



[1883. 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate 



Palaeontology, 334. 

 Report of the Professor of Mineralogy, 



334. 

 Report of the Curator of the Wm. S. 



Vaux Collections, 386. 

 Ridings, James H. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 829. 

 Roberts, S. R. Report of the Concho- 



logical Section, 827. 

 Seybert, Henry. Announcement of 



death of, 71. 

 Sharp, Benjamin. On the Anatomy of 



Ancylus lacustris and Ancylus fluvia- 



tilis,203, 214; On the Visual Organs 



of Solen, 248. 

 Skinner, H. Ovipositing of Argynnis 



cybele, 86. 

 Smith, J. Lawrence. Announcement 



of death of, 203. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Description of a 



New Hydrobiinoid Gasteropod from 

 the Mountain Lakes of the Sierra 

 Nevada, with remarks on allied 

 species and the physiographical 

 features of said region, 168, 171. 



Townsend, Chas. Hybrid Birds, 39; 

 Notes on the Birds of Westmoreland 

 Co., Penna., 44, 59. 



Trautwine, .John C. Announcement of 

 death of, 193. 



Treasurer, report of, 323. 



Wells, W. Lehman. Announcement of 

 death of, 125. 



Willcox, Jos. Canadian Notes, 96; 

 On he Evidences of Glacial Action 

 in Northern New York and Canada, 

 203, ^57. 



Wister, John. Announcement of death 

 of, 89. 



Wright, Berlin H. A new Unio from 

 Florida, 44, 58. 








aDlWL/Bi^^ji *- JKM «-• v^ ii»i • 



QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 



A 2 Proceedings 



V.35 



&Medic«J 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STOR 





