ON SOME NEW BATRACHIA AND FISHES FROM THE COAL MEASURES OF LINTON OHIO.
BY E. D. COPE A.M.
The following descriptions of some interesting forms are published by permission of Prof. John S. Newberry who procured the specimens in the course of the geological surve3r of Ohio of which he is director.
LEPTOPHRACTUS Cope gen. nov.
Established on various portions of the cranium of a large Batrachian allied to the Labyrinthodontia.
The top of the head is covered with angular plates or scuta arranged in the following manner on tlie region preserved.
Two symmetrical scuta occupy the median line one in front of the other.
One of these is a longish or coffinshaped hexagonal with the suture with the other concave.
The latter is more ovoid broad and couAex next the first mentioned and somewhat more contracted at the opposite extremity.
Beyond this are two shields joining by a straight suttire on the middle line  besides this one they have two concave sutures for scuta at the fartlier end two concave lateral sutures and a straight one to the adjoining median scutum whose suture is also concave.
On each side of this median plate is a large area surrounded before outwards and behind by smaller scuta three in front two at the side and two behind.
Commencing with the first.
No.
1 has been already described  No.
2 is small oval and anteroposterior  No.
3 is an anteroposterior pentagon with the narrowest side inwards No.
4 is a similar transverse pentagon  No.
5 is an anteroposterior pentagon which presents its shorter lateral facet inwards No.
G has a similar character but is smaller and with more definite angles.
Another series of scuta is seen outside of these at one end of the series.
Three of this set bound tlie front and side of each of the median pair above mentioned leaving a short facet next its fellow unaccounted for.
The sculiture consists of radiating ridges and tubercles which are most broken near the centres of the scuta.
The teeth are rather distantl' grooved for some distance above the base.
They arc of different sizes the smaller are compressed and with fore and aft cutting edges.
This type is weaker and more slender than Lab'rinthodon and the cranial scuta appear to be very thin.
It is possible that this part of the specimen ma only be a cast but I am not satisfied of this.
LEPTOPHRACTUS OBSOLETUS Cope spec.
nov.
The tubercles and ridges of the cranium are obtuse and low and the latter do not inosculate.
An angular depression commences at the middle of each lateral area and extends across the middle line at the point of junction of the paired and single median scuta.
The external surface of the dentary bone is marked with short oblique grooves along its middle region  above these are grooves which inosculate forming a figure like an open net dragged in the long direction.
Excepting the grooves the teeth are smooth.
The smaller ones are close togetlier and their crowns are curved backwards  the larger ones are at more remote intervals  both have enlarged bases  whether both forms are in the same series I cannot determine.
There are from four to five of the smaller in an inch.
M. Depth of fragment of jaw margin wanting  .
.
.075 Length smaller teeth 019  longer  023 Width of vertex at middle scuta 176  of paired median scuta 056  of single  036 Length of   048 Some vertebrae were found at the same locality but there is no evidence as to the species to which they may have pertained.
They are short concave on one end and probably so on the other.
The centrum of one is .012 in.
in diameter neural arches injured.
The Leptophr actus was about as large as a medium sized alligator.
CONCHIOPSIS Cope.
This genus is represented by specimens of several species which all agree in the structure of the scales.
These resemble those of the Gyropfychhis of McCoy in having longitudinal curAed ridges which converge to the posterior margin round an imaginary axis.
A rather complete specimen which may be regarded as type has two dorsal fins and one anal neither these nor the ventrals are clearly lobate.
The caudal fin is equally developed above and below the tapering vertebral column.
It is broken off in the t3'pe but in anotlier specimen is evidently quite elongate and of the protocercal or isocercal type.
There are two huge oval gular plates as I suppose tliem to be which are well separated from each other and of a broadlv oval form.
In another specimen the dentition of one of the jaws is exhibited as a double series of small subequal subconical crowns.
In still another tlie pectoral fin is displayed as broadl' and obtusely lobate.
Whether these all belong to the same genus may be uncertain but their resemblance is very close.
Size not large.
The genus is evidently allied to the Gyclodipieridse.
CONCHIOPSIS FILIFERUS Cope.
About twelve rows of scales between the dorsal and ventral fins which stand opposed to each other and half way between the gular shields and the line of the equall opposite second dorsal and ventral.
Sculpture of the gular plates a longitudinal threadlike ribbing parallel to the inner borders.
M. Length from gular plates to anal fin 057 Depth at D. 1 088  D. 2 02G The type specimen was obtained and presented to me by my friend William Kite.
CONCHIOPSIS ANGULIFERTJS Cope.
Established on a specimen of larger size than the last species but in which the scales are similar and therefore relativel' smaller.
The gular plates have a band of delicate ridges around their outer marsins and numerous ridges which diverge from the middle of the scale to tlie band.
These ridges are undulate.
Posterior to the plates on each side is a long incurved bone perhaps the mandibular angle.
The pectoral fin contains about thirteen radii.
Prof. Newberry's collection.
CONCHIOPSIS EXANTHEMATICUS Cope.
Estaltlished on a cranium entirely preserved as to its outline with adjaeent portion of space for chorda dorsalis and osseous ribs.
The head is covered with thin scuta Avhich are very faintly sculptured with a few raised lines.
The gular shields are oval and sculptured with elevated points producing a weakly rugose surface.
The teeth above described are on this fish.
There are six iu three mm.
M. Widtli at shields 0.15  at middle muzzle 030 Length of head 045 Prof. Newberry's collection.
PEPLOKHINA Cope.
Established on a species similar to those of the last genus but with a peculiar sculpture of the scales which consists of raised points or small tubercles.
There is a lateral line of tubes which I cannot find in Conchiopsis.
An angular bony shield is present behind the gular scutum.
There are well ossified ribs but the structure of the fins cannot be made out at present.
PEPLOKHINA ANTHRACINA Cope.
Scales large well imbricated  each one is .01 m. in elevation and three enter .02 longitudinally.
The gular and other scuta are smooth except a band of shallow grooves round the margin.
M. Length of gular scutum 021  scute behind it 014 From Prof. Newberry's collection.
