REMARKS ON THE TERTIARY CLAY OF THE UPPER AMAZON, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SHELLS.
BY T. A. CONRAD.
Professor Eug.
W. Hilgard has sent me for examination a number of fossils collected on the Upper Amazon by Mr. Steere.
The extraordinary character of this interesting group has made it one of more than ordinary attraction.
The species and even many of the genera being limited to these deposits, we fail to find a point of comparison with other groups of fossils.
Some naturalists have supposed from the look of freshness and the perfection of many specimens, that they may be of comparatively^ modern origin, but the clay in which they are imbedded is admirably fitted for their indefinite preservation.
The clay is generally free from iron, and thus one source of injury is wanting.
Tlie colors of the shells are sometimes preserved in perfection, and even the epidermis of a few specimens of Pachydon, and also portions of cartilage, but I do not regard these as evidence of very late deposition of the group.
The colored markings of a cretaceous Neritina from Mississippi, and on a univalve of the eocene of Alabama, as well as portions of cartilage in an eocene bivalve, all of which I have seen, might as well be considered evidence of late tertiary deposition of the beds in which they occur.
Were the Pebas group of pliocene date, we should expect it to contain man}' recent species of the Lower Amazon, and especially Azara, but as far as we yet know, such shells are absent.
Triquetra and Hemisinus are characteristic genera of South American rivers, but the fossil species are not identical with living ones.
Mr. Dall informs us that " many of the genera are exclusively marine," but I am sure no such genus was in the collection which he studied at the time.
Only one doubtful genus of this character has been found in all the collections since made.
The fresh-water shells consist of, 2 Anodontas, 2 of Hemisinus, and 2 of Triquetra, besides several land shells, while the estuary genei*a, Mytilopsis and Neretina, might have lived in either fresh or brackish water.
On the coasts of the Atlantic States of North America these two genera live in the latter.
The only shell which might be supposed to be strictly marine is a Nuculana, if it prove to be a 3 species of that genus.
So partial a view of the hinge has been obtained that it cannot be certainly determined as indicating that genus.
The shell described as Tellina b^Mr. Gabb is a young valve of Pachydon teimis.
So that any certain evidence of a marine origin for the Pebas group is wanting.
Professor "Woodward remarks that in the living analosrue of Pachydon, " Azara or Potamomya, we have just the evidence we need to argue upon" in respect to the nature of the habitat of the Pebas shells, and quotes Darwin's observations on Azara lahiata.
Darwin in his " Geolog-ical Observations on South America" saj's, " On the northern bank of the great estuary of the Rio Plata, near Moldonado, I found at the head of a lake, sometimes brackish, but generally containing fresh water, a bed of muddy clay containing Azara labiata,^' etc.
This representation of the habits of that shell indicates, I think, those of the Pebas fossils, which may have inhabited a lake similar to that of Moldonado.
The following letter from Mr. Steere to Prof. Hilgard explains the position of the fossils : " I first saw Prof. Orton's fossil bed near Tabatinga.
It is composed of horizontal beds of blue clay, separated b}'^ beds of dirty coal, that seems more like peat than coal.
There seems to be nothing regular in these beds, thus differing apparently in thickness, and appeared in a distance of a few hundred yards.
I have sent you fossils from these different localities, Pebas, Old Pebas, and Pichana.
The}' are situated in relation to each other somewhat as follows : Pebas one mile from the mouth of the Ambyacu River, and Old Pebas two miles below, and Pichana perhaps fifteen miles from the mouth of the Ambyacu.
The fossils from Pebas are 60 or 10 feet above the river level, while at Old Pebas thej' ai'e at the water level, though tlie shell beds at Pebas ma}' extend down, as the lower strata are covered by fallen and washed earth, leaving the fossil beds visible only at the top.
The fossil beds appear to have been denuded irregularly and then covered with a bed of red and white clay and sand, much like that formed so plentifully on the Lower Amazon in some places.
This shows in the river bank 30 feet thick, but at Pebas only 8 or 10.
I made a rough section of the exposed beds at Pebas, with the following i-esult though the result I think is of little importance, the beds change so frequently.
Pebas.
8 feet red and white clay and sand.
20 feet blue clay, 4 feet of fossils.
G inches coal.
15 blue clay.
3 feet of fossils.
"I noticed that the lower strata had less univalves and more bivalves than the upper.
I have sent you some shells that I know are new, and bits of turtle shell, fish bones, coral, crustaceans, etc., which have not been noticed in the bed before."
I found no specimen of coral in this collection, nor in an}' other of the Amazon fossils.
Description of Shells of the Pebas Gy^oup.
PACHYDON, Gabb.
In this genus the species are A'ery diverse in form, iuequivalve, both beaks directed forward, spiral ; the cardinal tooth of the left valve is covered in front throughout two-thirds of its length by a portion of the exterior layer of the valves, which is transversely striated, and resembles a wedge sunk into the base of the lunule, so as to define the tooth from the exterior when the valves are closed.
In most species the prominent margin of the lesser valve fits into a groove, the lower margin of which is a welldefined lateral tooth.
This character is entirely wanting in CoRBULA, as well as the external view of the cardinal tooth.
In P. cuneata this character is strongly marked.
Mr. Gabb's name for this genus must be retained, because Stuchbury's Pachyodon, as well as Schumacker's, are superseded.
P. (Anisorhyncus ?)
dispar, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
1.
Yery oblique, subquadrangular, right valve concave above, with 2 diverging carinated lines from apex, one directed towards the ventral extremity, the other towards the anterior margin, left valve profoundly ventricose, with a well-marked groove anterior to the beak, directed somewhat obliquely backward to the ventral margin which is emarginate.
The two outlines represent side views of right valve.
Six or seven siaecimens of this singular species are before me, and I supposed the valves belonged to two different species, so ver}' remote in appearance the}' are from each other ; but one specimen, a cast, occurs with both valves represented in connection.
It would hardl}' have been tliouglit a Corbula by those who insist on the group being referred to that genus, if no other species of Pachyodon liad been found.
P. erectus, Conrad.
I have not the specimen originally figured, of this species, to refer to, and cannot say positively whether P. alius, Conrad, is identical with it.
There is no form in the collection which would represent P. erectus.
P. altus, Conrad, PI.
I., figs.
4, 18.
These represent the right or small valve of P. altus in its 3'oung stage of grovvth.
There are many specimens of this species in the collection, but not one form which I could refer to the preceding species.
P. cuneata, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
3.
This figure represents an unusual form of this shell, which species is rare in the collection in comparison with P. tenuis, ohliqua, or erectus, about 10 specimens in all.
Subgenus Anisorhyncus, Conrad.
One valve of this subgenus occurs in the collection, the principal distinctive character of which is the involution of the right valve.
What gives peculiar interest to this shell is that it is closely related to A. py}'iformis.
Meek, which lived among Unionidas in the eocene of Utah, and the subgenus unknown in later tertiary deposits.
Tins is another instance of the belated character of the South American faunas, and favors the belief that the Pebas group is not of late tertiar^^ origin.
p. (Anisorhyncus) cuneiformis, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
19.
Pyriform, very inequilateral, ventricose anteriorl}', with the submargin slightl}'^ convex, and the area before it depressed ; posterior side elongated, somewhat sinuous or contracted, end acutely rounded ; umbonal slope undefined.
This description applies to only one right valve, which is all in the collection.
It is a moderatel}thick shell, and differs from most species of Platyodon in wanting a prominent beak.
DRESSEINA, Vanbeneden.
Subgenus Mytiloides, Conrad.
Pkaxis, H. & A. Adams.
D. scripta, Conrad, PI.
I., figs.
12, 16.
Triangular, elevated, ventricose anteriorly, compressed towards the posterior end ; umbo sharply angulated anteriorly, anterior side flattened or concave; markings zigzag brown lines.
This species much resembles D. polymorpha in its colored markings.
It is a much smaller species than the latter, and proportionally shorter or more elevated.
It is sufficiently abundant to mark the estuary character of the bed in which the species lived.
Figs.
12 are young shells showing extremes of variation in form.
There is a small species of this subgenus living in the waters of Virginia, among the oysters planted in brackish waters ; D. leucophxata, Conrad.
(D. Americana, Recluz.)
ANODOXTA, Cuvier.
A. pebasana, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
5.
Rhomboidal, elongated, compressed ; dorsal and ventral margins parallel; summit very small and acute, little prominent above the hinge line, and erect ; distant from anterior end.
A single valve of this species is before me.
It is only remarkable for its comparatively low elevation or height.
There is a fragment of a much larger species in the collection, which may be A. Batesii, Woodward.
The fragment I noticed as allied to MulLERiA, Woodward states may be an Anodon, but the extraordinary muscular impression renders that impossible.
TRIQUETRA, Klein.
HYRIA, Lam.
T.longula, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
10.
Subrhoraboidal, slightly ventricose, elongated, scarcely alated, hinge and ventral margins nearly parallel ; anterior margin slightly eraarginate; dorsal line convex, ventral margin nearly straight ; umbonal slope rounded except on the umbo, where it is subangular ; umbo flattened, with longitudinal and transverse zigzag plications ; posterior margin obliquely truncated ; cardinal teeth of right valve, four, the anterior one elongated and compressed, rectilinear, two diverging teeth immediately under the apex, and a much less elevated linear oblique tooth between two anterior teeth ; in the left valve two very oblique diverging teeth anterior to the beak, and two or three very small direct teeth under the beak.
T. longula (Young), Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
13.
Rhomboidal, compressed, alated, anterior margin obliquely rounded; umbo slightly convex, plicated, the plicfe similar to the preceding, but the zigzag transverse ones wanting.
There are only fragments of this shell before me, and therefore the outline must necessarily be conjectural.
OSTOMYA, Conrad.
Thin, concentrically plicated ; hinge with a spoon-shaped oblique fosset in the left valve, and a small tooth near the apex ; right valve cartilage fosset very oblique, almost parallel with the hinge line.
0. papyria, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
6.
Subovate, inequilateral, compressed, very thin, concentrically plicated, slightly sinuous anteriorly; ventral margin slightly emarginate anteriorly ; umbonal slope undefined ; posterior end subangular.
A very rare shell, of the family Anatinidae.
The fosset is very large in proportion to the size of the shell.
This form of hinge would indicate a genus living in water more or less brackish.
In one specimen the apicial tooth is tuberculiform, in the others acute with a slight channel anterior to it.
o NUCULANA ?
Link.
Plate I., fig.
2, represents the outline of a single specimen of a shell having the form and somewhat similar hinge of Nuculana.
PLANORBIS, Guettard.
P. Febasana, Conrad.
Discoid, depressed ; volutions 3, convex, channelled along the suture, glos.sy ; base concave, volutions rounded, separated by a deep channel ; aperture round.
Four or five specimens of this very small species were found in a quantity of small shells and fragments of shells.
They ai-e as fresh-looking as living species.
If some of these Pebas fossils were gathered, washed out of the clay on the shore of the Amazon, the collection might include recent species of the vicinity.
PACHYTOMA, Swaiuson.
P. tertiana, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
11.
Pyrainidamical, volutions 5, flattened or concave laterallv.
carinated at the suture and profoundly so at the sharp angle of the base ; base slightly convex, subumbilicated, subcarinated behind the depression ; basal margin slightly emargiaate.
A few specimens were found in the detritis.
It is with some doubt I refer it to Pachytoma, but I cannot compare it with any other genus known to me.
TOXOSOMA, Conrad.
Conical, polished, the aperture projecting, subovate, direct, peritome continuous ; columella concave with a plait or tooth in the middle, not oblique ; base rounded, subumbilicated.
T. eborea, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
7.
Small, volutions 5, rounded; aperture angular above ; last volution expanded ; columellar tooth minute.
Found iu company with the preceding shell.
It is probably a laud shell.
CIRROBASIS, Conrad.
Subcylindrical, with last volution free, aperture projecting, peristome continuous, mouth narrow, subovate, oblique.
C. venusta, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
15.
Elongated, volutions 9, very slightly convex, the last volution straight on the side; a few volutions near the apex with a carinated line below the middle of each volution ; angle of base subcarinated.
Only one specimen was found, and that in perfect preservation.
The genus is probably terrestrial, allied to Cylindrella.
LIOSOMA, Conrad.
Conical, polished ; aperture subelliptical ; columella with one plait in the middle ; base entire.
L. curta, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
8.
Volutions smooth, 4, slightly convex; columella conspicuously cut or indented above the plait, which is not oblique.
CYCLOCHEILA, Conrad.
P3'raniiclal, aperture circular, expanded labrum widely reflexed, columella flattened, subangular at l)ase.
C. Pebasana, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
17.
Volutions 5, with straight sides; last volution angular and carinated on the angle; base flattened; spire and mouth of nearly equal length, spire longest; lines of growth oblique.
HEMISINUS, Swainsou.
H. Steerei, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
14.
Turreted; volutions 6, convex, showing remains of 3 carinations on each one of the spire ; last volutions having 4 revolving carinated lines, the upper one near the suture ; sinus of labrum deep.
A single specimen occurs, much water-worn, almost obliterating the carinated lines of the spire.
EBORA, Courad.
E. crassilabra, Conrad, PI.
I., fig.
9.
Notes.
LiRis LAQUEATA, Courad, appears to me to be a land shell allied to Cylindrella and Clausilia.
There are, I think, five genera of land shells and three of fresh water, with four species of the latter.
A few fragments of fish remains (Mylio.
bates) were determined by Prof. Leidy, and there is an impress in the clay of nearly a whole crab.
It is remarkable that no remains of plants have been found where delicate fresh-water and land shells have been drifted into these deposits.
We ma}'^ expect to find mammalian relics when the beds are more thoroughly explored, and they would be likely to indicate their geological age.
