ON SOME BATRACHIA AND NEMATOGNATHI BROUGHT FROM THE UPPER AMAZON BY PROF. ORTON.
BY EDWARD D. COPE.
BATRACHIA.
URODELA.
Oedipus altamazonicus, ?p.
nov.
Represented hy three specimens.
These are of slender form with long tail and weak limbs.
The digits are palmate to the tips.
The head is an elongate oval, and its width enters the length to the o-roin more than six times.
The end of the muzzle is tumid, and notched in the middle ; the external nostril pierces each tumidity above the lip.
The vomerine teeth are in two short arches meeting in the middle and not extending outwards bej'ond the inner margin of the inner nares.
Parasphenoids numerous, the patches not distinguished anteriorly.
Thirteen costal folds, the oppressed foot and thin limbs each extending over four of them.
Tail swollen at the base, a vertical oval in section.
A groove along the median line of the back and tail.
Dermal pores numerous.
Color uniform dark brown.
Total length of a small specimen .082 m. ; of head and body, .040 ; of head, .007 ; width of head behind, .005 ; length of foot limb, .007.
Length of head and body of a larger specimen, .050.
This is the most southern known salamander, the first discovered south of the equator.
From Nauta.
AXURA.
BUFOKIFOKJIIA.
Bufo agua, Dand.
Bufo naricus, Spix.
Bufo margaritifer, Laur.
Otilophus Cur.
Bufo granulosus, Spix.
From the Maranon.
Arcifera.
Phyllomedusa scleroderma, Cope.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.,Phila., 1868, p. 112.
From Xauta.
Pithecopus tarsius, Cope, loc.
cit., p. 113.
Kauta.
Pithecopus ccElestis, sp.
nov. General appearance and size much as in Phyllomedusa hicolor^ but there is no trace of parotid gland or line of cr^'pts.
The pigment of the upper surfaces extends on the humerus and the outer two toes of both limbs.
"Vomerine teeth present.
Palpebrte not reticulate ; no dermal processes.
Tympanum a vertical oval .3 to .25 of the diameter of the eye.
Muzzle short, obliquely truncate to lip.
It is reached by tlie elbow of the extended fore limb ; the heel only reaches the front of the orbit.
First finger opposable ; first toe longer than second ; third with very small dilatation.
Superior surfaces blue, sides yellow, with vertical purple bars.
Concealed surfaces light maroon, with yellow spots ; on the posterior face of the femur in two series.
Belly and throat seagreen, unspotted.
Lower lip yellow bordered ; upper lip without markings.
Upper e^yelids yellow bordered.
Skin smooth above, sides coarsely, belly finely areolate.
Forearm and outer toe with a narrow yellow line on the outer margin.
A similar one above vent.
Length of head and bod^^, .057 ; of head to angle of jaws, .016 ; width of head at angle of jaws, .020 ; length of fore limb, .040 ; of hind limb, .080; of hind foot, .036 ; of tarsus, .020.
From Moyabamba, Peru.
Pithecopus tomopternus, Cope, loc.
cit., p. 112.
Abundant at Nauta.
Hypsiboas punctatus, Daudin, Dum.
Bibr., viii.
552.
Nauta.
Hypsiboas crepitans, Wied.
Beitr.
Naturg.
Braz., i.
525.
From Nauta.
Hypsiboas spectrum, Reinhot.
et Liitk.
Viden.
Medd.
Nat.
Forening Kjobenhavn, 1861, p. 195.
Yery nearly allied to, if not identical with this species.
From Nauta.
Centrotelma geographicum, Spix, Cope, Journ Acad., Phila., 1867, 205.
From Nauta.
Hyla marmorata, Daudin, Cope, Proceed.
Academy, Phila., 1868, p. 111.
Nauta.
9 Hyla leucophyllata, Beireis ; vars.
tyjHca et triangulum, Gthr.
Nauta.
Osteocephalus planiceps, sp.
nov. A rather slender species, "with long limbs, and the general proportions of the species of Hyjjsiboas.
Head broad and plane on the upper surface to the straight and rectangular canthus rostralis.
Loreal region nearlj' vertical.
The fronto-parietal bones are ossified, and the nasals meet on the middle line ; their superior surface is rugose with ossific deposit, which in some cases assumes the form of radiating ridges, but nowhere penetrates the free derm.
The lateral margins of the fronto-parietals are indicated by delicate angular ridges incurred posteriori}-.
The vomerine teeth form two curved transverse series between the posterior portions of the inner nares, the angle forwards the outer limb a little longer.
Choanffi very large, ostia pharyngea half the size.
Tongue oval, bound behind.
Eye large with transparent palpebra, its diameter equal to the space between it and the nostril, one-fourth greater than that of the large membranum t^'mpani, and one-fourth less than the frontal width.
Belly and sides coarsely areolate, back minutely tubercular.
A short tubercular fold from orbit to behind scapula.
Fingers free ; toes webbed to the base of the penultimate phalange of the fourth digit ; first (least) toe webbed to disk.
The heel of the extended hind limb extends beyond the ^ muzzle by the diameter of the tympanum.
No dermal fringes or processes.
Color above uniform dark brown, concealed surfaces of limbs similar and without any markings.
Sides a little varied with the white of the belt.
A light border to the upper lip, and lighter line from the orbit to the angle of the mouth ; dermal scapular fold pale edged.
Femur and tibia with dark crossbands on the exposed surfaces.
M. Length of head and body 060 " " (axial) to angle of mandible .
.
.
.017 Width " at " " ... .019 Length of muzzle from orbit 009 " of fore limb 037 " of hand 016 " of hind limb 093 " of foot 037 " of tarsus 019 This is the fourth species of the genus Osteocephalus, Fitz, and differs from those previously known in the absence of palmation of the fingers, weaker cranial crests, straight canthus rostralis, etc.
From Nauta.
Scytopis funereus, sp.
nov. Vomerine teeth in short fascienti between the choan?e.
Fingers free.
Head oval, muzzle narrowed; eyes small, diameter equal length to muzzle and less than frontal width, twice diameter of tympanic membrane.
Hind limbs long, the heel extending to considerably beyond the end of the muzzle.
First (inner) toe nearly free; longest webbed to base of penultimate phalange.
Areolation of belly fine, back with a very few scattered elevations.
Dark brown or blackish with a broad black cross-band between the eyes and several across arm, femur, tibia, and tarsus.
Femora uniform behind ; a few black spots on the posterior part of the side.
Throat and breast black punctated.
M. Length of head to angle of lower jaw 013 " of head at angle of lower jaw 015 " to vent 044 Width of sacrum.
008 Length of hind leg 073 " " foot 030 " " taraus 013 Distinguished from other species of the genus by its long lec;?^.
From Mo3'abaraba, Peru.
Scytopis allenii, Cope, Proceed.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
1869, p. 162.
From Nauta and Moyabamba.
, Scytopis cryptanthus, sp.
nov. Allied to the last species, but with non-elongate flat head, and different coloration.
The head is a long oval, and the diameter of the e^'e is only three-fifths the length from its border to the external nostril, about .15 the interorbital width, and one and onehalf times that of the membranum tympani.
Vomerine teeth between nares.
The heel of the extended hind limb marks the half the distance from orbit to end of muzzle.
Fino-ers and first toe free.
Uniform dark brown above, sides and gular region brown speckled.
Groin and concealed surfaces of hind limbs black, with brillant yellow spots, three on the under side of the tibia, two on the posterior face of the femur, and one large confluent one on the front of femur and groin, which is on the former notched above by two or three blaclc spots.
M. Length of head and body 044 " of head to angle of jaws 015 Width " above angle of jaws 015 Length of hind limb 070 " "foot 030 " " tarsus 013 From Nauta.
The species of this genus ma}^ be divided as follows : Fingers webbed.
8. venulosus.
Fingers free.
8. aurantiacus.
Heel extending to beyond muzzle.
8. funereus.
Heel not reaching end of muzzle.
Skin smooth above.
8. allenii.
8. xsignatus.
8. cryptanthus.
Skin arrolate above.
8. ruber.
8. acuminatus.
Scy topis amantiacus, Daudin.
Nauta.
Nototrema marsupiatum, Derm.
Bibr.
Evp.
Gen. viii.
598.
Nauta; in two specimens, the ethmoid is uuossified above, while there is no fronto-parietal fontanelle.
Family CYSTIGNATHIDJE.
Subfamily Cystignathi.
Bubonias plicifrons, gen. et sp.
nov. Fronto-parietal bones fully ossiQed, nasals separated.
Xiphisternum, an osseous stjle with disk.
Auditory organs well developed.
A large gland in the inguinal region ; no tarsal shovels nor spurs.
Maxillary, but no vomerine teeth.
Form, toad-like.
This genus it is evident presents characters of Liujperus in dentition, Pleurodema in glands and feet, and Cystignathus in cranial structure.
Char.
Bjiecif.
Head narrow, with elevated lores.
Membranum t^'mpani oval, its long axis directed upwards and forwards, and nearly equal in length to that of the eye.
The latter equals the length from its border to the end of the (osseous) muzzle.
Skin everywhere smooth except in the following regions of the upper surface.
A strong elevated fold from the superciliar}border to the inguinal gland, below which on the scapular region is a boss like a parotid gland : A fold from the inner border of the eyelid to the end of the sacral diapophysis ; a fold frona the end of the muzzle to the end of the cocc3^x on the median line.
A short conic tubercle stands at its extremity on the muzzle.
Edge of the eyebrow with three dermal processes or " horns."
There is a ridge extending along the inner border of the large choanae which supports no teeth.
Tongue a long oval, notched posteriorl3\ The middle of the forearm marks the end of the muzzle, and the heel, the tympanum.
Digits all entirely free.
Color above brown; below pure white; sides pure black, the color extending on the sides of the abdomen and then passing round in front of the femora, thus inclosing an anchor-shaped space of white.
A black spot on the posterior part of the inguinal gland ; femora behind with a black band from one popliteal region to the other.
From this, black bands extend to the end of the coccyx, one across the femur above, and a broad one across the femur below, near the knee.
Tibia below black, with a j'ellow cross-band.
Limbs above brown; forelegs black and white spotted below.
M. Length of head and body 038 " " to angles of mandible 012 Width " at " " 013 Length of fore limb 021 " ofhindHmb 045 " of hind foot 022 " of tarsus 008 Two specimens from Nauta.
The dermal plicae though strong are easily lost by stretching.
Cyclorhamphus aemaricus, ?p.
nov. Form like Scaphiopus.
The tympanic membrane wanting and the tympanic chamber occupied by muscle.
Ostia pharyngea minute ; their depth not ascertained.
Vomerine fasciculi minute, and between the small choanre.
Tongue round, extensively free.
Labial integument largely free and overhanging the lower jaw.
Xiphisternum broad, emarginate base osseous.
Limbs short, the heel reaches about to the angle of the mouth.
Fingers free, toes half palmate ; a free border on the inner side of the tarsus, and outer side of outer toe.
Skin smooth except a few small tubercles on the occipital region.
In the male there are numerous small horny points on the breast, and a lai'ge horn^' plate on each thumb, whose surface is roughened with crowded projecting points.
Color olive-brown above, lighter brown below ; one specimen has a few scattered yellow spots above.
M. Length of head and body 048 " of head to angle of mandible 012 Width " at " " 018 " " interorbital 004 Length of fore limb .
025 " of hind limb 008 " of hind foot 032 " of tarsus 012 Two specimens from lake Titicaca.
This species has a much less depressed head than the C.
ma?-morafus, and probably a less developed auditory apparatus, and vomerine tooth series.
The coloration is entirelj^ different.
The C. fasciatus^ Peters, is equallj^ distinct, judging from the description.
Hylodes sulcatus, sp.
nov.
Distinguished for its very wide head and rugose skin.
The form is stout, but the hind limbs rather elongate.
The maxillary borders are so expanded as to give the tympanic disks a partly vertical exposure.
These are vertically oval, the diameter a little less than that of the orbit.
The latter is a little less than the length to the anterior nares.
Choanoe large, but little larger than the ostia pharyngea.
Vomerine teeth in two short curved series entirely behind the choanse, and not extending outwards beyond their middle ; they approach nearly inwards.
Tongue round, entire, one-third free.
Fingers very short without expansions.
Heel of extended hind limb to nares ; exjiansions of hind toes well marked, with T-shaped phalanges.
A peculiarity of the species is seen in the strong ridge that extends along the superciliary border to the posterior border of the cranium, inclosing a groove with its fellow.
Skin below areolate on the belly ; above with numerous short, generally symmetrical folds, two of which cross the suprascapular region, two on the sides, two on each side the back, etc.
The 127 sides of the head from the orbit to the angle of the jaws is covered with closely placed tubercles giving a rugose surface.
Color, deep brown above, white below.
Limbs crossbarred with brown; femora pale, marbled behind.
Lips without light border ; a pale spot below the interval between orbit and tympanum.
Length of head and body " of head to angle of jaws Width of head at angle of jaws " of head at interorbital .
Length of fore Ihnb " of hind limb " of foot .
. "
of tarsus M. .047 .016 Mri .004 .024 .075 .034 .014 From Nauta.
Peters.
Evidently allied to the Strabomantis biporcatus, Lithodytes conspicillatus, Gthr.
Batrach, Brit.
Mus , 92, Var. "
Santarem, Brazil, No.
141."
Plectomantis rhodostima, sp.
nov. General form ranoid, with oval head and full and truncate muzzle.
The head of the extended hind limb reaches to the posterior border of the orbit.
T3'mpanum .66 the size of the eye, which equals in terorbital width and length to nostril.
Vomerine teeth, in two short curved series, on a transverse line behind the nares, and extending upwards as far as tlieir inner border.
Their size a little exceeds that of the ostia pharyngea.
Tongue elongate oval, largely free.
Skin smooth above and below.
Toes before and behind, with well-marked dilatations, and without dermal margins.
Color, above uniform brown, below whitish ; muzzle blackish to the orbits ; femora dark-brown behind.
A rose-colored spot in the groin, one on the superior face of the femur, two on the inferior face of the tibia, and one on the superior face of the tarsus.
M. Length of head aud body 045 " of head to angle of jaws Width of head at angle of jaws ' ' of head between orbits Length of fore limb . "
of hind limb " of hind foot . "
of tarsus .014 .015 .004 .026 .OoO .029 .012 One specimen from Nauta.
This species has tlie cranial structure and xipliisternal style oi Cystignathus, but the T-shaped pliahmges and disks of Hylodes.
The riectromantis ivagneri, Peters, I have examined in Munich, and find it to be closely allied to Cystigiiathus, so far as external appearances are concerned, but further than this I could not examine.
It, however, has digital dilatations, and I refer the present species, provisionally, to the same genus, suspecting that such course will be warranted by a fuller investigation of the type specimen.
As here defined, it bears the same relation to Cystignathus that Hy lor an a does to Ban a. Cystignathus hallowellii, Cope, Proceed.
Acndemy, Philada., 1868, 115.
Hylodes Italloivellii, Cope, 1. c, 18fi2, p. 153.
A variet}' from between Balso Puerto and Moyabamba, Peru.
Gnathophysa ocellata, Linne; Seba, pi.
75, fig.
1.
Cystignathus labyrinlliiciis, Dum.
Bibr.
Castelnan.
Pletirodema labyrinthica , Gthr.
From Nauta.
Gnathophysa rubido, sp.
nov. A much smaller species than the preceding, represented by two males and a female, the former with the nuptial spurs largely developed.
The metacarpus of the pollex terminates in one, and the second projects from the metacarpus of the second digit.
There is one with three mucrones on each side of the breast.
The general form is stout.
The toes are without free dermal margins, and the smooth abdominal derm has the discoidal fold.
The vomerine teeth form two short transverse open arches behind the nares, not extending outwards beyond, opposite the centres of the latter.
There is a dorsolateral fold from' the orbit to near the groin, and another, commencing just below it, extends to the middle of the side, and sendsa short branch down behind the membranum tympani.
Dorsal surface smooth, pustular between the ilia; tibia pustular above.
The head is a wide oval, with a short decurved muzzle, and large eyes.
The diameter of the latter exceeds the length to the outer nares, and is nearl}' twice that of the tj'mpanic membrane.
Tongue elongate oval, faintlynotched, choanre and ostia near the same size.
The heel of the extended hind limb falls short of the orbit.
The lateral glandular mass extends from near the axilla to the groin and occupies the width of the side.
129 Color, above reddish to brown, in one specimen bright-red; femora black behind, faintly pale-marbled ; front of femur black, a few black spots in the groin.
Entire hind limb black, crossbarred.
A narrow black bar from nostril to tympanum ; upper lip broadl}' black-bordered.
Inferior surfaces dark-brown, with numerous pale dots, which may be wanting on the gular region, and inosculate on the femur.
Length of head and body " of head to angle of jaws Width of head at angle of jaws " of head between orbits .
Length of fore limb .
of hind limb of hind foot .
of tarsus M. .066 .019 .026 .006 .035 .081 .040 .016 From Moyabamba, Peru.
Dendrobates trivittatus, Spix (?).
This species agrees with the figure given bj^ Spix, and differs from the description by Giinther, of the D. tincforiiis, to which the latter author refers it as a synonym.
Thus the dorsal derm is closel}' areolate, and the ventral smooth, and the first finger is longer than the second.
There are three longitudinal yellow bands, the outer springing from the orbits, the median from betw^een them.
The lateral extend to the knee, while another band extends from the lips below the orbit to the middle of the humerus.
A yellow horse-shoe on the end of the muzzle; below black, with yellow spots on the limbs only.
Femur with few spots behind.
From between Balso Puerto and Mo^'abamba, Peru.
Dendrobates labialis, sp.
nov.
Skin minutely areolate on the upper surfaces, smooth below.
Muzzle flat, moderately elongate, and broadly truncate.
Tympanum one-fifth size of eye, which equals length of muzzle and interorbital width.
The muzzle marks the end of the forearm, and the posterior edge of the orbit the heel.
First finger longer than the second.
The upper surfaces are colored by some pigment, whose distinctive character has been lost in the alcohol.
Upper lip pale banded, the band extending through the axilla, 130 and meeting its fellow at the j^ubis.
upper surfaces.
No spots or bands on the M. Length of head and body .
.026 " of head to angles of jaws .
.
.010 "Width of head at angle of jaws .
.008 Length of fore limb .... .
.015 " of hind limb .... 035 of hind foot .... 017 From Nauta.
Dendrobates speciosus, Schmidt, Denkschr.
Acad.
AViss.
Wien, 1858, p. 249.
From Atelopus seminiferus, sp.
nov.
Body elongate, limbs rather short ; the muzzle nearly reaching the middle of the extended forearm, and the heel marking the scapula.
The muzzle viewed from above is rounded, truncate, and in profile somewhat prominent; the nostril marking a line which falls behind the sj^mphysis of the mandible.
The eyelid is thickened, and is not prominent; and the diameter of the eye equals the length of the muzzle and the posterior interorbital width.
The ethmoid appears to be ossified to the end of the muzzle.
Fingers slightly, toes largely webbed, the web reaching the end of the first phalange of the fourth (long) toe.
Tongue narrow, extensively free ; ostia pharyngea smaller than the small choanse.
Skin smooth except on the sides, where there are numerous closel3'-placed minute tubercles from the head to the groin.
A broad fold of skin extending from the side to the middle of the length of the femur.
Above, dark-brown ; below, brownish-oraiige.
Sides black from head to groin; each tubercle of the skin yellow, resembling yellow grains.
Limbs uniform black.
Length of head and body " of head to angle of jaws Width of head at angle of jaws Length of fore limbs " of hind limbs " of hind foot .
.
M. .040 .009 .009 .026 .045 .021 " of tarsus 007 From between Balsa Puerto and Moyabamba, Peru.
This species has a much shorter muzzle and limbs than the A. S2nimarius (Proceed.
Acad.
Philada., 1811, p. 222); from Pebas.
131 Colostethus latinosus, Cope (?
), Proceed.
Academy, Philada., 1866, 130, and 1863, 48.
Colors not presented ; identification not final.
Uetvveen Balsa Puerto and Moj'abamba.
RANIFORMIA.
Ranula brevipalmata, sp.
nov. Nearl}' allied to the B. affinis, but with the web of the posterior digits only reaching the bases of the ultimate, or in the fourth toe, the penultimate phalange.
The membranum tympani is as large as the eye (not orbit) ; and the nostril is near the end of the muzzle.
The extended hind limb brings the heel to the anterior border of the orbit, instead of the end of the muzzle, as in Pi, affinis.
General color, olive ; below, white.
Femora and tibige marbled, with black behind.
M. Length of head and body ' .
.
.049 " of head to angle of jaws "Width of bead at angle of jaws " of bead between orbits Length of fore limb " of hind limb " of hind foot " of tarsus ,020 .019 .00.}
.027 .074 .034 .012 From Nauta.
Ranula nigrilatus, sp.
nov.
Toes fully palmate to ends of last phalanges, or base of same on the fourth digit.
Heel of extended hind limb reaching anterior border of orbit.
Ej'e one and a half times the diameter of the tj'mpanum, and equal to the length of the lores to the nostril.
Muzzle truncate in marking the middle of the metacarpi of profile ; flat above the extended fore limb.
First and second fingers equal ; a tarsal dermal fold.
Skin smooth.
Color, dark-brown ; sides black ; lower surfaces closelj' marbled with dark-brown.
Femora and tibite black, marbled behind.
Length of head and body " of bead to angle of jaws Width of bead to angle of jaws Length of fore hmb " of bind limb " of bind foot " of tarsus M. .048 .018 .018 .025 .070 .034 .012 This species has the palmation of R. affinis^ and the short legs of R. hrempalmata ; the tympanum is smaller than in either.
The head is longer and the femur shorter than in the latter.
The coloration is notably distinct.
In neither of these species do I find the dorsolateral dermal fold of the R. affinis, though this may be due to the rather soft state of the specimens.
From Nauta.
NEMATOGNATHI.
Trichomycterus pardus, sp.
nov.
Origin of dorsal fin but little behind a point above that of the ventrals.
Radii, D. 8 ; A.
6 ; V. 5 ; A.
12; truncate.
Head flat, enterinsf the length without caudal fin 4.8 times.
Diameter of orbit one-sixth length of head, and one-half interorbital breadth.
Nareal beard extending backwards beyond eye, and the maxillary to the border of the suboperculum.
Preopercular and opercular patches full.
Color above yellowish-brown, with three rows of dark-brown spots on the sides. '
Fins and lower surfaces pale and unspotted.
Total length, .073; caudal fin, .011; head, .010; depth at dorsal fin, .011.
This is one of the few species of the genus where the dorsahfin is nearly immediately above the ventrals.
From Trichomycterus rivulatus, Cud., vol.
xviii.
495.
From Arequipa, Peru.
Bunocephalus melas, sp.
nov.
Radial formula: D. 5 ; P. I.
5 ; Y.
6 ; A.
7 ; C. 10.
Head and shield are elongate oval, without prominent ridges or marginal angles.
The anterior humeral tuberosity marks one-third the length to the middle of the shield at the basis of the dorsal ra3^ The width in front of the pectoral spine is a little less than .25 of the total length (including caudal fin) ; the length of the postcoracoid process is equal to nearl}^ two-thirds of the interspace between them.
The maxillary barbel extends to the end of the basal third of the pectoral spine; the latter oppressed, reaches the base of the ventral fins.
Tail at anal fin wider than deep ; compressed near the base of the caudal fin.
Four rows of wartlets on the sides, one of them on the lateral angle of the tail.
Dorsal fin nearer the end of the muzzle than the base of the caudal fin by two-thirds the length of its base.
Color black, darkest on the skies ; head speckled with paler.
Total length .072; to caudal fin, .059; to dorsal fin, .028; to dorsal shield, .025 ; to line of anterior humeral tuberosity', .008 ; to orbit, .003.
From Nauta.
The dorsal fin is apparently more posterior than in B. gronomi, and there are fewer anal rays than in B. aleiii'opsis.
Dysiclithys coracoideus, gen. et sp.
nov. Char.
Gen.
In general similar to Bunocephalus, but there are no mandibular nor mental barbels.
The head is depressed, but deeper than the narrow tail.
Char: Specif.
Radial formula, D. 5 ; A. T ; C. 10 ; Y.
6 ; P. I.
4.
Dorsal fin bound to the back behind by its membrane, the base of its first ray a little nearer the end of the muzzle than the basis of the caudal fin.
The head and neck shield is diamondshaped, with truncate angles, and the humeral angles mark the middle of its length instead of an anterior point, as in Bunocepha.lus nelas.
The anterior humeral tuberosity marks one-third the length from the end of the muzzle to the second dorsal ray, measured axially.
The shield is peculiar for its strong ridges and scalloped borders.
A bigh heel, with three prominences, divides it behind, while the scutum supports another.
The posterior border presents two angles, and there is a ridge across behind the orbits.
A ridge from each orbit meets its fellow, forming a V at the occiput, and a ridge from the humeral process meets its fellow behind this point.
The postcoracoids are longer than in B.
melas., their length equalling the width between them.
The pectoral spines extend bej^ond the base of the dentrals.
The maxillary barbels extend to the base of the pectoral spines.
The tail is quadrangular with a line of evantlets along the lateral angle.
Belly, tail, and fins, black ; throat and belly white speckled.
Shield brown, with some paler specks.
Total length, .055 ; do.
to caudal fin, .046; do.
to dorsal, .021 ; do.
to dorsal scutum, .018; do.
to humeral tuberosity, .010 ; do.
to orbit, .003.
Several specimens from Nauta.
Zathorax nauticus, sp.
nov. Coracoid portion of the scapular arch only ossified so as to occupy the derm.
Postcoracoid narrow, not excavated.
A distinct adipose fin.
Prefrontal bone acutely pectinate on its upper face.
Head (to end of casque) one-third length to middle of caudal fin.
Orbit one-third length of head (to gill opening), and nearly equal interorbital width.
Mandibular barbel to end of postcoracoid process ; maxillary to end of pectoral spine.
Width of casque greater than the interorbital.
Radii D. L. 6 ; A.
12 ; V. 1 ; P. I.
4.
Dorsal spine grooved, not dentate ; pectoral spine strongly toothed extending be^'ond basis of ventral fin.
Postclavicle with recurved teeth ; caudal fin truncate.
Lateral shields 26 low, leaving a broad naked band above and below them ; with a single strong median curved spine.
Color brown above, with a j-ellow band along the middle of the side border red with black above and below.
Belly white ; below the pectoral fin purple.
Caudal fin with some vertical dark bars.
Total length, .082 ; do.
to first anal ray, .045 ; do.
to end of postcoracoid, .026 ; do.
to base of dorsal fin, .026 ; do.
to gill opening, .016 ; do.
to orbit, .004.
From Nauta.
The less exposure of the scapular arch below, simple postcoracoid, etc., distinguish this fish from the Z. monitor^ m. According to the description of Dr. Giinther the Boras asterifrons pertains to the genus Zathorax.
RMnodoras niger, Valenciennes ; Gthv.
v. 209.
Nauta.
One of the specimens is twenty-five inches in length.
Rhinodoras prianomus, sp.
nov. Head long, extending (measured to the end of the opercular flap) the length of the short body to the origin of the npper and lower caudal radii, 2.5 times.
The eye is one-seventh the length of the head, and is equidistant between the end of the muzzle and the edge of the operculum, and is half the interorbital width.
Lateral scuta 22 ; the first and last with rudimental spine ; that of the others strong and curved, the upper edge of the scutum with two or three prickles.
The scuta leave a wide naked space above and below them.
Radii, D. I.
6; A.
10; V. 7; P. I.
10.
Dorsal and pectoral spines serrate to the base on their anterior edges; postclavicle with a longitudinal angle, which supports a series of processes and spines.
Head and casque rugose above.
Maxillary barbels reach to bej^ond eye ; the outer mentals are .66 as long.
Color brown, paler below, with numerous vertical dark brown spots on the sides.
All the rayed fins, and the back at the base of the adipose, black.
Head above and at sides gray with unmevous large brown spots.
Length to base of caudal fin (marginal) m. .12 ; to base of dorsal, .Ot.
From Nauta.
One of the specimens from Nauta measures twenty-five inches.
Corydoras ambiacus, Cope, Proceed.
Acad.
Phila., 1872, p. 280.
From Nauta.
Corydoras armatus, Calichthys armahis.
Glinth.
Proceed.
Zool.
Soc.
Lend., 1868, p. 231.
Oallichthys asper, Quoy.
Gaim.
Nauta.
Hoplosternum longifilis, Cuv.
Val., Glinther, v. p. 228.
Nauta.
Hypoptoporna bilobatum, Cope, Proceed.
Amer.
Philoso.
Soc, 187.
Loricaria cataphracta, L. Glinther, v. p. 255.
From the Marafion.
Loricaria rostrata, Spi.\-, Glinther, v. 256.
Liposarcus jeanesianus, sp.
nov.
This large and handsome species is allied to the L. pardalis^ Cast, and L. varius, Cope, but presents a number of peculiar features.
It is elongate and depressed, the head moderately so only.
The head enters the total length (with caudal) 5.75 times ; while the greatest depth (in front of the dorsal fin) enters it eight times, the head being measured to the superior end of the branchial fissure.
There is an obtuse canthus rostralis from the orbit to the nares, there is a strong nuchal angle (not a crest), and a low one corresponding to the outer border of the epiotic bone.
The two nuchal scuta have two very low ridges each.
The orbit is small, entering the length of the snout 6.5 times, and the interorbital width 3.25 times.
The sculpture of the upper surfaces of the head consists of numerous close grooves forming various patterns.
Two or three small spines on the intei'operculum.
Beard reaching the line of the front margin of the e^'C.
Inferior surfaces to anal fin entirely granular.
Scuta of the body in twenty-eight transverse and (at the dorsal fin) four longitudinal series.
They have a low serrate keel wh'ich ends in a point.
Six scuta between dorsal fins and fourteen between anal caudal.
Radii D. II.
12; C. I.
14, I; A. I.
4 ; Y. I.
5 ; P. I.
6.
Base of the dorsal enters total length 3.5 times, and equals the length of the head and nape in front of it, exceeding the length of the pectoral spines by two iuterradial spaces.
Color olivaceous above with numerous black spots, which inosculate on the dorsal jegion ; below lighter with numerous closely placed black spots.
Fins clouded.
Head very closely radiate, banded and spotted.
Total length .400 m. (15.75 inches) ; length to bases of caudal, .305 ; do.
to anal, .200 ; do.
to ventral, .140 ; do.
to pectoral, .060 ; do.
to edge of inferior lip, .034 ; do.
to superior teeth, .011.
Length of first dorsal spine, .0*11 ; humeral width, .077.
Two specimens from Nauta, Peru.
Dedicated to Joseph Jeanes, of Philadelphia, one of the most liberal patrons of students of the Natural Sciences in the United States.
Liposarcus scrophus, sp.
nov.
Size of the last species but much more robust and rough in character.
The dorsal outlines arched, rising abruptly in a strong crest on the posterior cephalic scutum, and maintained bj^ the rough lateral keels of the nuchal plates.
The head enters the total length 4.25 times, and the greatest depth the same, five times.
An obtuse ridge to nares and a low swelling on the upper part of the pterotic shield.
There is an angular tuberosity on the upper posterior part of the orbit, and a low ridge on the inner side of each of the nares.
Barbel only extending to line of interior nostril.
Several strong spines on the interoperculum.
Diameter entering length of side of muzzle four times, and three and a quarter times the interorbital width.
Sculpture of the upper surfaces of the head consisting of lines of minute acute tubercles, which are nearly obsolete on the interorbital.
Lower surfaces everywhere rugose.
Scuta in twenty-seven transverse, and four longitudinal series, all rugose with lines of points and each with an elevated keel-brush of small spines.
The upper and lower series of lateral scuta are strongly angulate, and the sides are swollen from opposite the base of the dorsal fin.
Five scuta between the dorsal fins and thirteen between the anal and caudal fins.
Radii of tins ; D. II.
12 ; C. I.
14, I ; A. I.
4 ; Y. I.
5 ; P. I. C. Dorsal fin longer than high, entering total length 3.5 times and a little less than length in front of its first spine.
Length of latter equal length of head to end of interoperculum.
Pectoral fin stout, shorter than basis of dorsal fin by three interspaces.
The lower caudal lobe is, as in L. jeaiiesianus consider13Y ably longeithan the upper.
Color uniform black ; upper cau ray j^ellowish.
Totallength .
0.370 Length to basis of caudal fin .298 " " " of oval fin .200 " " " of ventral .145 " " " of pectoral ....... .070 " " " of edge of lower lip .
.
.
.
.040 " to superior teeth .014 " to first dorsal spine .075 Humeral width .093 Two specimens from Nauta.
Plecostomus virescens, sp.
nov. Head wide, depressed, muzzle moderately elongate; bod}^ and tail rather elongate.
There is a very obtuse occipital and nuchal elevation, while the post and preorbital angles are well marked.
A few preopercular spines.
Head below naked behind the mouth.
Teeth numerous, acutel}' incurved.
Posterior lip entire, smooth ; beard sliorter than diameter of orbit.
The latter is one-fourth the length of the head, and one-half the flat interorbital space.
Length of head 4.25 times in the total minus caudal fin.
Radii D. I.
7, I; C. I.
14, I; A.
5 ; V. I.
4 ; P. I.
6.
Basis of dorsal equal space between it and second dorsal plus one scutum, and equal the length in front of it to tlie middle of the interorbital region.
Pectoral spine reaching a little bej'ond base of ventral.
Scuta 26 4, without keels but with numerous rugose ridges.
10 August 4.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Six members present.
Dimorphisvi in the Leaves of Acer Pennsylvanicinn., Lin.
Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited some branches of Acer Pennsylvanicnra, Lin.
(A. striatum, Lamb), which had a remarkable system of dimorphic foliage, and which he believed had been generally overlooked.
The first pair of leaves developed after the bursting of the bud in the spring, were larger and more perfectly developed than any subsequent ones.
In his specimens thej' were about six inches long and five wide, and stronglj^ three-lobed towards the apex.
The next pair, however, were usually lance linear, in the specimens exhibited about five inches long and less than two wide.
Occasionally there was a tendency to the pi'oduction of a pair of lobes, but usually the margins were entire or sparsel}^ serulated.
The third and subsequent pairs of leaves partook of the form of the first pair, though seldom so large.
He had examined sevei'al hundred of young ti'ees, and all had this singular dimorphic condition, the second pair in all cases having this peculiar narrow form.
It was worthy of remark that in plants with alternate leaves, the leaves with their axial buds were generally about the same size.
In some few instances there were variations in the size, especially in the one-third arrangement of the leaves on the stem.
In opposite leaved plants the rule was the other way ; one bud or one leaf, either in the blade or petiole, being larger or longer than the other.
In the maples this was especially the case.
At times the petioles in some cases would be not more than half the length opposite.
He had found this especial peculiarity, however, in no other species but A. Pennsylxianicum that he had been able to examine, which included most in common cultivation.
It might be in A. spicatum, Lam., which he had not been able to examine this season, and which he supposed to be but a variety of A. Pennsylvanicum.
August 11.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Seven members present.
August 18.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fourteen members present.
August 25.
-The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty members present.
On Pectinatella magnijica.
Prof. Leidy exhibited a living specimen of the fresh-water ciliated polyp, formerly described by him under the name of Pectinatella magnifica.
It was obtained by him this morning from the mill-pond at Kirkwood, N. J., on the Camden and Atlantic R. R. The specimen, about four inches square and three inches thick, is a fragment of a large colony, which enveloped the submerged trunk of a tree.
The entire colony was estimated to be about six feet long, and from six to twelve inches in diameter, including that of the tree trunk, which was about four inches.
Several branches of the tree were also invested with extensions of the colony from six inches to a foot in length.
Pectinatella is by far the largest of all the known fresh-water ciliated polj-ps, and, indeed, is not surpassed b}^ any of the marine forms known to us.
It has not been determined whether the huge Pectinatella colonies start each from a single individual, or are the result of the confluence of a number of small colonies.
On the approach of winter the colonies die and undergo decomposition, in which process the remarkable winter eggs or statoblasts are liberated.
These are provided with anchor-like spines, by which, as in the case of the eggs of skates and sharks, they become attached to various fixed bodies.
On a Pay^asitic Woy^m of the House-fly.
Prof. Leidy remarked that since it had become well known that manj^ parasitic worms passed different stages of development within several different animals, he had from time to time sought for the sources from whence the more common thread worms obtained entrance into the human body, but thus far without success.
The Trichina spiralis, discovered in man in 1833 by Mr. Hilton, and described and named by Prof. Owen in 1835, was first found in the hog by Prof Leidy in 1846 (See Proc.
A. N. S., iii.
108), but it was not until some years subsequently that it was determined that man and the hog acted reciprocally as hosts for the Trichina in its different stages of development.
In examining various common animals of our household, Prof. Leidy had found a thread worm, infesting the common house-fly.
The worm is from a line to the tenth of an inch long, and lives in the proboscis of the fly.
It was found in numbers from one to three in about one fly in five.
The parasite was first discovered in the house-fly of India, by the English naturalist, Mr. H. J. Carter, who described it under the name of Filaria Muscx, and suggested the opinion that it might be the source of the Guinea worm, Filaria Medinensis in man.
Mr. Carter states that he found from two to twenty of the worms iu one fly of three.
Dr. Diesing referred the parasite to a new genus with the name of Habronema Muscse.
The singular position in which the worm lives suggests the man}' unsuspected places we have to search to find the parents or offspring of our own parasites.
Notice of some Fresh Water Infusoria.
Prof. Leidy remarked that a species of Limnias, belonging to the order of wheel animalcules, or Rotatoria, was exceedingly abundant in our rivers.
It lives in a tube, of its own construction, attached to aquatic plants and stones.
He had not been able to determine whether it was a diflerent species from the L. ceratophylli of Europe.
The latter Is described as solitary, but the common Limnias of our rivers is remarkable for the dense bunches that it forms.
In many localities of the Schuylkill almost every stone exhibits multitudes of such bunches, pendent from the sides and under part.
The bunches are conical, and usually one tube serves as a pedicle, while the others hang from it and often curve outwardly.
From two or three to as man}' as fifty tubes may be counted in a bunch.
This fasciculated character mav distinguish the animalcule as a variety, which might l)e named L. socialis.
The bunches of Limnias form a support for a multitude of other animalcules.
Among the latter, C'otJiurnia pusilla is quite common.
Prof. Leidy had also observed upon the bunches on several occasions the curious branching infusorium described by Ehrenberg, and also described and figured by Claparede under the name of Dendrosoma radians.
This measures a half a line or more in length, and terminates in branchlets, each with a rounded end, from which project a multitude of delicate raj'S, extending as much as the one-twelfth of a line in length.
September 1.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fifteen members present.
Dr. Nolan, having announced the death of Dr. John Hamilton Slack, made the following remarks : Dr.
Slack was born September 23(1, 1834.
After graduating from the Department of Arts of the University of Pennsylvania, he made a tour of Europe, Northern Africa, and the Nile, and was elected a member of the Academy in July, 185*7.
During the same year he presented valuable specimens of Egyptian natural history and antiquities, for which tiie thanks of the Academy were formally returned.
The next year he presented for publication a paper, wliich appeared in the Proceedings under the title " Catalogue and Notes on the Egyptian Antiquities in the Museum of the Academy'."
In the spring of 1859 he graduated from the Medical Department of the University, and at once applied himself to the practice of his profession and the studj'^ of natural history.
From this time until his removal from the city he was an active and enthusiastic worker in the Academy.
His name appears in the Proceedings as a constant contributor to the museum and library, and also as the author of three papers on Mammalogy, the most important of which was a monograph of the Prehensile-tailed Quadrumana of South America.
The work, however, b}^ which he will be longest remembered as a member of the Society is his Handbook to the Museum, the first edition of which appeared in 1861 and was rapidly exhausted.
A second edition was immediately issued, and of this, also, several thousand copies were sold, showing that the Handbook supplied a want long felt, and which, in consequence of the partial rearrangement of the collections, aoain exists.
Dr.
Slack was elected Librarian of the College of Physicians in December, 1864, and served until December 31, 186*7.
He removed from the city in 1868 to his estate in Warren Count}', New Jerse}', which he named Troutdale, and where he resided until his death, on August 24, 1874, actively engaged in pisciculture.
So highly was his work in this field appreciated that he was appointed one of the Fish Commissioners of New Jersey.
He also rendered important service as Assistant United States Fish Commissioner under Prof. Baird, during the winter of 1873-*74, in hatching nearl}^ half a million eggs of the Salmo quinnat received from California, and in distributing the fry to various rivers of the Middle and Southern States.
His contributions to the literature of practical fish culture during this time were numerous and valuable.
Dr.
Slack was a gentleman of unusuall}' varied attainments.
Although he was most devoted to the natural sciences, he exhibited an active interest in literature and art.
He possessed talents as a musical composer which, if cultivated, would have secured him a wide-spread reputation.
As it is, his arrangement of Home, Sweet Home has rendered his name familiar to thousands who know nothing about his life-work.
He extended hearty sympathy' and valuable assistance to those who took an interest in the pursuits to which he was devoted ; and these, as well as more advanced students of natural history, who recognized in him a valued associate, will hear of his death with unfeigned sorrow.
September 8.
The President, Dr. Rlschenberger, in the chair.
Fourteen members present.
The following papers were presented for publication : " Xotes on Santa Fe Marls and some of the Contained Vertebrate Fossils."
B^^ E. D. Cope. "
On a new Variety of Helix."
By James Lewis, M.D.
Notice of a Remarkable Amoeha.
Prof. Leidy stated that in the early part of last June, in examining some material obtained from a mill-pond at Absecom, Xew Jersej', he had observed a most wonderful amoeboid animal, of which he had made notes, but was not able at the time to make a drawing and satisfactory description.
Subsequently he sought patiently for two days in the same material for another individual, but without success.
Last week he made a visit to the Absecom mill-pond to seek the curious amoeboid, and was so fortunate as to find it again.
Prof. Leidy exhibited a drawing of the animal, and described it as follows : The animal at rest is spherical or oval, or constricted back of the middle.
In the spherical form it measured the one-fifth of a millimetre in diameter ; in the oval and constricted form it was about one-fourth of a millimetre long, and one-sixth of a millimetre broad.
It is white or cream colored, opaque, or translucent at the border, and was spotted green from food balls of desmids.
It moves with extreme sluggishness, and with little change of form.
From the fore part of the body the animal was observed to project almost simultaneously a number of long, conical, acute pseudopods, about the one-twelfth of a millimetre long.
From the back part in the same manner a multitude of papillaform pseudopods were projected about the one-fiftieth of a millimetre long.
All the pseudopods and the surface of the body everywhere bristled with innumerable minute spicules.
From time to time more or less obtuse i^ortions of the clear ectosarc were projected, and these likewise were observed to be covered with the minute spicules.
The opacity of the animal prevented the exhibition of a nucleus, if such exists.
In general appearance the curious creature resembles one of the forms of Pelomyxapalustris, described b3' Prof. Greef, in Schultze's Archiv, vol.
x. pi.
iv., fig.
9, but in this, minute spicules project only from the posterior disk-like extremit}' of the bod}', as thej' have also been observed to do in the corresponding part of Amceba villosa, of Wallich, and perhaps other species.
The general spiculate character of the Absecom amoeboid is probably sufficient to distinguish the animal generically from Amoeba, and in this view the animal ma}^ be named Deinamoeha mirabilis.
On the Mode in lohich Amoeba stoallows its Food.
Prof. Leidy remarked that he had supposed that Amoeba swallows food by this becoming adherent to the body, and then enveloped much as insects become caught and involved in syrup or other viscid substances.
He had repeatedly observed a large Amoeba, which he supposes to be A. princeps^ creep into the interstices of a mass of mud and appear on the other side without a particle adherent.
On one occasion he had accidentally noticed an Amoeba, with an active flagellate infusorium, a Urocentrum, included between two of its finger-like pseudopods.
It so happened that the ends of these were in contact with a confervous filament, and the glasses above and below, between which the Amoeba was examined, effectually prevented the Urocentrum from escaping.
The condition of imprisonment of the latter was so peculiar that he was led to watch it.
The ends of the two pseudopods of the Amoeba gradually approached, came into contact, and then actually became fused, a thing which he had never before observed with the pseudopods of an Amoeba.
The Urocentrum continued to move actively back and forth, endeavoring to escape.
At the next moment a delicate film of the ectosarc proceeded from the body of the Amoeba, above and below, and gradually extended outwardly so as to convert the circle of the pseudopods into a complete sac, inclosinothe Urocentrum.
Another of these creatures was noticed within the Amoeba which appeared to have been inclosed in the same manner.
This observation would make it appear that the food of the Amoeba ordinarily does not simply adhere to the body, and then sink into its siibstance, but rather, after becoming adherent or covered by the pseudopods or bodj', is then inclosed by the active extension of a film of ectosarc around it.
The death of Dr. Jeffreys Wyman was announced.
September 15.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twentj'-three members present.
On the Motive Poioer of Diatomes.
Prof. Leidy made some remarks on the moving power of diatomes, desmids, and other alga.
While the cause of motion remains unknown, some of the uses are obvious.
The power is considerable, and enables these minute organisms when mingled with mud readily to extricate themselves and rise to the surface, where the}' majreceive the influence of light and air.
In examining the surface-mud of a shallow rainwater pool, in a recent excavation in brick clay, he found little else but an abundance of minute diatomes.
He was not sufficiently familiar with the diatomes to name the species, but it resembled Navicula radiosa.
The little diatomes were very active, gliding hither and thither, and knocking the quartz sand grains about.
Noticing the latter, he made some comparative measurements, and found that the Naviculoe would move grains of sand as much as twenty-five times their own superficial area, and probably fift}'^ times their own bnlk and weight, or perhaps more.
Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt made the following remarks : "While examining, this summer, into the structure of some of the so-called insectivorous plants, but more especially' into the anatorn}' of the genus Nepenthes^ I observed a part which I have not seen expressed before, and of sufficient interest, perhaps, to go upon record.
In the vegetable kingdom it is exceedingly rare to meet with glands which have distinct excretory ducts.
Some authors deny their existence entirely; but in Nepenthes rafflesiana^ N. distillatoria, and X.
2)hyUamphora, and probabW in all the species, are large C3dindrical glands which pour out their secretion through distinct excretory ducts.
In N. distiUatoria these glands are, on an average, about the one-thirt3'-fifth of an inch long, and the one-twentieth of an inch wide, while the ducts measure about the one-thirtietli of an inch in length.
In the Rafflesiana the glands and ducts are much larger.
A dense tissue of cells surrounds and thoronghl}' imbeds these glands in Nepenthes.^ and this peculiarity of position renders excretory ducts necessary for the secretion to find its way into the pitchers.
In the vegetable kingdom it is the rule for glands to be located on surfaces, but in Nepenthes where one s^'Stem of glands is imbedded the duct becomes necessary', and so far as I know is the only instance of such ducts among plants.
September 22.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirt3'-five members present.
Remarks on Sponges.
^-Fr of.
Leidy remarked that the animal nature and structure of the sponges were first clearly made known b}' Mr. H. J. Carter, of England, and Prof. H. James Clark, of this country'.
The sponges are compound, flagellate infusoria.
The sponge infusorium had been a])propriately named by Mr. Carter the spongozoon, the exact characters of which were first noted bj' Prof. Clark, and confirmed by Mr Carter.
The spongozoon is a globular cell, surmounted by a delicate cup, from the bottom of whicli projects a tlagellum.
The little animals are situated on the interior of hollow si:)heres of the sponges sustained b}' the skeleton of the compressed animal, whether this be corneous, as in the common sponge, or whether it be siliceous or calcareous.
The observations of Prof. Clark had been made on a fresh water sponge, to which he had given the name of Spongilla arachnoidea.
Mr. Carter's observations had been made on both freshwater sponges and the difterent classes of marine sponges.
Prof. Leidy at first supposed that the sponge described by Prof. Clark might be the one he had formerly noticed under the name of Spongilla fragiliH (Proc.
A. N. S. 1851, 278), but comparison proved them to be different.
They are both of the same color, but the siliceous spicules of S. arachnoidea are stated to be tuberculate, while they are smooth in S. fragilis.
Dr. Leidy had examined the spongozoon of the latter, and found that it presented the same essential structure as described b}' Prof. Clark and Mr. Carter in other sponges.
Prof. Leidy further remarked that he had found several specimens of the curious rhizopod, discovered by Cienkowski, and named by him Clathrulina elegans.
They were found among Utricularia, but though retaining their stems were unattached and apparently dead.
One of the specimens presented a peculiar and as 3-et unexplained character.
On one side of the laticed head the orifices were capped with little inverted, hemispherical cups, from the top of which projected a funnel like the cup of the spongozoa.
Prof. Leid}^ was pursuing his searcli for the living and attached Clathrulina.
Prof. Leeds made some remarks concerning a remarkable mineral found in a bank of white sand near Fa^'etteville, N. C. It was, in appearance, a rod of glass, four feet in length and two inches in diameter, which was made up of a great number of irregular fragments.
These fragments were iiighly polished on one side the side apparentl3' turned toward the hollow axis of the rod, and excessively contorted on the exterior side.
They consisted almost entirely of silex, the remainder being cliieflj^ oxide of iron.
Accurate analj'sis showed that the percentages of the constituents in these siliceous fragments and in the sand found in the hollow core of the rod were the same.
On account of this identit}'^ in composition, and the incompetency^ of anj^ other known agent to produce such a fusion of almost pure silex, it was concluded that this "rod of glass" was a result of lightning a lightning-lube or fulgurite^ as such products have been called.
Prof. Leeds also gave the particulars concerning a great elevation of temperature which had occurred in the adit level of a lead mine in Missouri, where the heat had suddenly risen from 60 to over 100, and had compelled the workmen, for the time Ijeing, to suspend \york.
The earth was found to contain over 75 per cent.
of sulphate of protoxide of iron, and the heating had been due to the rapid absorption of ox3'gen by sulphuret of iron, disseminated throughout the earth in a finely divided condition.
Change of Habit through Fungoid Agency.
Mr. Thomas MeeHAN referred to a former communication in which he exhibited specimens of Euphorbia cordata, or E. humisirata, collected by him in the Rockj^ Mountains, and which, normally procumbent, had assumed an erect habit on being attacked by a fungulus ^cidium Euphorbias hypericifolipe.
He now found that the common trailing Eiqohorbia of our section, E. maculata, when attacked by the same fungulus, assumed the same erect habit.
There was an additional interest in this observation, from the fact that with change of habit of growth there Avas a whole change in specific character in the direction of E. hypericifolia.
In a comparison of the leading characters of the two species, we see that in E. maculata there is a profusely hairy stem, while that of E.hyyericifolia is nearly smooth.
The same is true of the fruit.
The leaves of the former species are ver}' oblique at the base the latter nearly regular.
The flowers are produced in all the axils.
In the E. hypericifolia the stems have a tendeucj'' to be nodose at the joints, while E. maculata is nearly free from this character, and the floAvers are mainly in heads at the ends of the branches.
The E. maculata, after the fungoid attack becoming erect, also becomes nodose, and has the flowers on the ends of the comparatively smooth branchlets, while the leaves have lost their pointed obliquit}^ ; and, in short, all the characters make an intermediate between the two species.
He said it would not be fair to assume, from these facts, that Eupihorbia hypericifolia was an evolution from E. maculata, but, as there could be no doubt that nutrition was one of the factors in the government of form, we could sa}' that certain phases of nutrition, brought about b}" an attack of a minute fungus, would change the characters to the direction of those in that species.
September 29.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
There not being a suflScient number of members present for the transaction of business, in accordance with the B3'-Laws, the meeting adjourned until October 6.
On favorable report of the Committee to which it was referred, the following paper was ordered to be printed: '
