DESCKIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX.
BY JAMES LEWIS M.D.
Helix Mesodon Lawii Lewis.
ex.
Shell urabilicated subglobose  epidermis pale r  corneous thin and delicately striate  spire but a jri little elevated suture quite distinctly impressed i  whorls nearly five the last a little expanded and then conspicuously contracted as it approaches the peristome  peristome white reflected rather narrow scarcel thickened the margin being somewhat sharp  aperture well rounded elliptically lunate scarcely less in area than the unexpanded portion of the last whorl and scarcely modified bj' the presence of a narrow slightly curved slightly elevated lamellar tooth on the parietal wall  umbilical region but a little impressed  umbilicus narrow deep and scarcely contracted b' the proximity of the reflected lips  base somewhat convex.
Greater diameter 5.9 lesser 5.3 alt.
3.6 mm.
A smaller specimen greater diameter 5.6 lesser 4.9 alt.
3.5 mm.
Found among roots of strawberry plants in fields near Hayesville Clay Co. N. C. Miss Annie E. Law.
Cabinet of Isaac Lea LL.D. Philadelphia.
Cabinet of the Academy of jatural Sciences Philadelphia.
Remarks.
Under the present system of classification the above described shell will no doubt be regarded as coming within the limits of the subgenus Mesodon.
Possibly a revision of subgenera might with propriety be made to set this species apart.
The shell is about of the size and form of helicina Ologyra orbiculafa Say but will at once be distinguished b3its somewhat translucent aspect its umbilicus and the noticeable lamelliform tooth on the parietal wall.
Regarded as belonging in the subgenus llesodon it will at once be recognized as the most diminutive known member of the group.
It is not without importance inasmuch as it increases the list of rare species referable to Meso.
don heretofore found in Cherokee Co.' N. C a portion of which territory forms what is now known as Clay County.
The shell can scarcely be confounded with any known species.
At the request of Mr. Lea who refers the shell to me for description I name the species in honor of Miss Annie E. Law wdiose earnest labors in this department of zoology merit a much higher recognition than this.
Helix Clarkii Lea Helix Wheatleyi Bland Helix Christyi Bland.
