OBLINITA GUENEE AND HINTS ON PHYLOGENY OF LEPIDOPTERA.
BY THOMAS G. GENTRY.
In the autumn of 1813 numerous larvae of Acronycta oblinitawere observed by the writer feeding upon the leaves of Polygonum Pennsylvanicum.
Their ravages were confined to a limited region in which a plentiful supply of their favorite food was found to meet the most vigorous demands.
Within a space of fifty feet square more than a hundred were counted.
A diligent search through the adjoining country failed to reveal any further traces of them.
As this species of weed is particularly prolific in Germantown I had hoped to meet with other larvae of the same species.
Instances have occurred in the writer's experience and doubtless in the experience of others of comparatively small scopes of countiy yielding ample nourishment to hosts of larvae of a particular species.
This is usually noticeable among lepidoptera which instinctively deposit their ova either in single clusters or in small collections but slightly isolated from each other.
Vanessa antiopa affords a familiar illustration of the foregoing assertion.
During the summer of 1867 I daily observed in a grove of red maples a desperate encounter which a score of Calosoma scrutator was waging against the harmless though terriblelooking caterpillars of Vanessa antiopa.
Although the destruction was on a singularly grand scale yet hundreds of larvae remained to undergo their transformations during the latter part of August.
The eaves of the buildings in close proximity fence rails and in short nearby every available place were hung with the angular chrysalides.
So numerous were the latter that after the final metamorphoses had passed the red fluid which was ejected by the tender and newlyformed butterflies gave everything the appearance of having been profusely spattered with blood.
The area subjected to the desolating influence of these larvae did not cover less than two acres of ground.
It is worthy of remark that during the same summer this section of country was unfortunately visited by legions of Cicada septemdecim.
It is but occasionally in many years that unusual numbers of a particular species make their appearance in the same locality.
A combination of circumstances exists to impose an effectual check upon the undue multiplication of insect life where nature is not interfered with bman's devices.
There are without doubt in the case referred to assignable causes for such an undue increase.
Coming back from this digression the larvae of Acrony eta continued to feed during the entitle month of October before entering into the pupa state.
Asa matter of convenience many were taken home hy the writer placed within a vivarium and fed indiscriminately upon the leaves of various species of Polygonum with remarkable success.
During the latter part of the feedingtime there being a scarcity of food plants in the immediate neighborhood in which he resided the thermometer indicating a rather low degree of temperature his charges were uncared for and permitted to ramble about their cage for days without suitable and wholesome nourishment.
In this predicament many passed into pupae.
It is well known that the larva of this species constructs a slightly spindleshaped cocoon.
To constitute a framework for this essential covering it places itself upon a small branch where there is an abundance of leaves at convenient distances which it unites by a perfect network of fibres stretching from leaf to leaf or from stalk to leaves lengthening and shortening as necessity demands until the desired configuration is assumed.
Within this structure after the lapse of a definite period it passes into a chrysalis.
Being a spinner of silk this Noctuid approximates very closelj r a Bombycid the numerous members of whose family with comparatively few exceptions are cocoonbuilders.
So intimately related to this family is the genus Acronycta that it has been retained in the tribe Bombycoides of Hubner.
So important is the habit of cocoonmanufacture that it constitutes one of the chief points of distinction between Nocturnal and Diurnal Lepidoptera.
For a species that has been proverbial for cocoonmaking any marked deviation from what has been ordinarily observed would excite no little surprise and doubtless would be accepted by some who are slaves to their prejudices with considerable hesitation.
While the majority of my larvae of Acronycta passed through their transformations in the normal manner at least three without the slightest attempt at cocoonmaking like the larva of Thyreus 3 Abboltii la' upon the surface of the soil and after a period of five da3 r s entered the chrysalis form.
By comparison with chrysalides which had been divested of their silken coverings I could not discern more than ordinary variation.
These chrysalides developed into male moths.
That differences occur in the size shape and color of cocoons 1 am convinced beyond a doubt.
The surroundings of a larva and the quantity of its food have much to do with the size and configuration of its cocoon while the character and quality of the food affect the color of the same.
Where the molecules of matter that enter into the physical composition of a leaf maintain a nearly perfect stability by undergoing few or no rearrangements the characteristic color will be reflected.
Various circumstances such as the existence of an acid tend to bring about these molecular rearrangements.
The puncture of a leaf by a Cynip and the want of healthy action therein by inability to decompose the carbonic acid of the atmosphere are producing causes.
We are all familiar with the changes which leaves undergo in the autumn consequent upon the diminished flow of sap into their petioles and the somewhat lessened vigor of the sun that source of life and light passing from green to black through the transitional tints of yellow orange red and brown.
If the colors of leaves are determined in a measure b r molecular arrangements why may not the introduction of certain kinds of food into an insect's economy materially different from what it has been accustomed to so impress with change the organs whose functional business it is to elaborate the fluid which it utilizes in the manufacture of its cocoon as to reflect different colors or shades of colors 
I can see no difficulty in the matter.
Indeed it has been shown that if the mulberiy silkworm Bombyx mori be fed upon its natural food for a limited period and then upon the leaves of different plantspecies it will elaborate a thread dissimilar in color to what is ordinarily produced.
To the success of this experiment it is not absolutely essential that the larva should be fed upon its natural food primarily as asserted as some late experiments of mine testify.
Where the essential conditions are present such as abundance of leaves of natural foodplant and a freedom upon the part of the insect to cany out its natural instincts the cocoon of the same species varies but little if at all from the characteristic type.
It is well known that birds vary their styles of architecture in correspondence with changes in their environment.
What just reason can be adduced for nonvariation in the cocoonmaking of silkspinners
Primitively when the natural sequence of events was not disarranged by the devices of man a remarkable degree of uniformity doubtless prevailed mnidifi 'cation among individuals of the same species  but latterly with some exceptions however varieties do occur which betray such marked deviations from ordinary types that to the most experienced and critical eye they seem stamped with a newness of design truly astonishing.
In the absence of positive evidence per contra they might with some show of reason be attributed to the workmanship of essentially different species of unknown habits.
Sticklers for the doctrine of nevervarying instinct as determining and controlling the actions of the feathered creation in opposition to intelligent reason would easily persuade themselves no doubt that perceptible differences did not occur and would argue that the same species manufactured the identical style of nest in these latter times as in the beginning in the face of the strongest array of evidence.
I Instances of variation have been recorded in ornithological literature.
The writer has noticed in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences a remarkable deviation fron the typical nest in the case of Sayornis fuscus Baird so striking and marked as to elicit considerable astonishment but based upon the most satisfactory and positive evidence.
If changes be introduced into the environment of a species of avis by the arts of civilized life or otherwise sufficiently potent to im tress its sensorium so as necessarily to lead to changes of habit whereby a continuance of the species is provided for and the existing harmony of a moiety of creation remains undisturbed the argument is irresistible that in localities where the foodplant or plants of a larva have disappeared through human civilization or defeat in the plant's struggle for existence being supplanted by another better adapted to the new conditions of life the insect itself will either succumb or adapt itself to the altered phase of affairs.
Such facts as this hypothetical case presupposes have fallen under my notice.
Eacles imperialism Hiibner was a few years ago always to be looked for upon coniferous plants.
During the last three years but few individuals have been observed upon plants of this family  for every one feeding thereon scores have been taken from Acer rubrum and A. saccharinum  occasionally from the English walnut Juglans regia.
Citheronia regalis Fabr. upon Acer rubrum.
Platysamia cecropia upon Mibes rubrum Acer rubrum A. saccharinum and Pyrus mains.
Other examples might be cited but enough have been adduced for the writer's purposes.
In the cases of regalis and imperialis alterations in larval structure have occurred as diminution in size smaller development of spiniferous tubercles color variations to a limited degree  and in case of imperialis particularly comparative smoothness of body very few hairs being noticeable.
Still further changes have been observed.
It is stated in books that many larva
which enter the ground preparatory to assuming the chrysalis form ordinarily construct earthen cells which they line with a thin la3'er of silk and subsequently coat with a varnishlike secretion to render them impervious to water.
That this is only occasionally so I am satisfied from years of experience.
That regalis and imperialis enter the ground is the common experience of lepidopterists  but it is not necessarily so.
In many instances I have witnessed the change effected near the surface of the soil within a slight cavity which the larvae by their motions had created and with considerable portions of the upper surfaces exposed.
Again the change has occurred upon the surface of the soil without even the slightest attempt at cellmaking being manifested.
It is necessary to state in connection herewith that the larvae were amply provided with earth of the proper consistency so there could not have been as far as could be discerned any obstacle to the fulfilment of their usual habit.
Thyreus Abbottii in the chrysalis form has been found reposing upon the surface of the ground underneath the shelter of a cultivated variety of Vitis cordifolia Mich. in a very open and exposed situation  undoubtedly the identical spot which the larva reached after separating itself from its favorite foodplant was the scene of its assumption of the chrysalis state.
This circumstance appears curious and unique in view of the fact that ordinarily there is a disposition upon the part of larvae to seek sequestered situations.
After this rehearsal of facts to show that the surroundings of a species operate to produce functional changes within its economy the rare occurrence of a cocoonmaking species laying aside this hitherto supposed indispensable habit becomes divested in a measure of the mystery which envelops it without losing any of its interest.
To assign a cause for this anomalous natural occurrence shall be my aim.
In a series of experiments which I recently conducted of starving larvae to ascertain the effects produced upon their economy I have been led to observe that in cases effectually accomplished there is besides a remarkable diminution in natural size in cocoonproducing species as Cecropia Polyphemus etc. a considerable saving of silk.
Last year I produced cocoons of Polyphemus threequarters of an inch in length by less than onehalf in thickness.
The flies which emerged from these cocoons measured If inches in expanse of wings.
In the generality of cases males were the result of starvation.
This last year I fed a number of Cecropia upon the leaves of our ordinary red currant.
One of the cocoons which I gathered was less than one inch in length with a thickness of onehalf inch.
Prompted b' curiosity I tore the cocoon open and discovered that the larva had been ichneumoned.
In the place of a chiysalis was found the black cylindrical cocoon such as we ordinarily find in such cases.
The larva had undergone its skin shedding as evidenced by the dried inverted skin which was shoved into one corner of the cocoon.
In this case the larva being weakened and diseased by the ravages of an internal foe had not the material or the power to construct the characteristic type of cocoon.
In the case of Polyphemus adverted to scarcity of food and of an innutritious character in the bargain had reduced the insect to a condition which rendered it powerless to produce the typical form.
May not the stinting process which necessity compelled me to adopt with some larvae of Acronycta have had the effect of determining the acquired habit which has been noticed 
The silkproducing glands of Acronycta in consequence of a diminished supply of aliment were not provided with the requisite material for the manufacture of silk there being a bare sufficiency of food to prevent starvation to the insect.
These silk organs are most developed at the period when the insects approach their pupa state  but with the larvae of Psychidee Tortricidse and Lasiocampidse they are already active during the earl'' epochs of life.
As the necessity for their use mainly occurs in the interval between the last skin moulting and assumption of the pupa form they would attain during this period their functional maturity.
There may be instances where growth has received a check through adverse climatic influences or otherwise and the functional activity of these glands has been early attained.
If in Acronycta the mature stage had been reached and the nutriment provided was insufficient to maintain both the life of the larva and the functional activity of the glands it seems evident that the most vital organs would be sustained at the hazard of those less vital.
In larvae which do not manufacture cocoons the silkbearing glands exist but so reduced in size that they are functionally useless where great quantities of silk are required.
It is true these larvae manufacture silk but in such exceedingly limited quantities as to be of little or no service for cocoonmaking.
The Diurnals as is well known are able to spin several strands by which they suspend and engirdle themselves when about to pass into chrysalides.
Some moths of the great family Bombycidse make no cocoons but these are the exceptions rather than the rule.
The major part of them are cocoonbuilders.
While some construct the merest apology others Cecropia for example attain to the highest perfection in the art.
The Arctians produce very little silk in comparison with Cecropia  their silkbearing glands being necessarily small.
The larva of Arctia achaia Grote spins a very thin web of a drab color through which the chrysalis is distinctly seen.
The Sphinges would seem to occupy an intermediate position  the earthen cells which they build with their slight lining of silk being the homologues of cocoons since they subserve the same essential purpose.
Thyreus Abbottii seems to be a real exception.
But no.
It ordinarily seeks some sheltered locality in which to undergo its critical changes the under surface of a fallen log or a board where an abundance of decomposing leaves affords the necessary warmth and shelter.
It is obvious that the necessity for a cell does not exist if the foregoing facts afford any criteria.
In the anomalous cases of Acronycta referred to above it seems to me that we have proofs of the manner in which cocoons have come to be dispensed with in certain Bombycids.
That defective nutrition has been a principal cause almost amounts to a conviction.
A parallel case is cited by Stretch in his  Zygaanidae and Bombycidse of X.
A.
Having taken a number of larvae of Arachnis picta Packard on the 9th of May 1870 near San Francisco he placed them in a box and furnished them with a plentiful supply of their appropriate food for two weeks.
They declined to eat however and remained thus for a period exceeding three months when they passed into chrysalides a few without spinning cocoons.
The remainder as though all the moisture in the body had been eliminated during their protracted fast wove a very thin open wdiite web dotted with minute glistening beads like tin' dewdrops.
Here there can be no doubt as to the part which lack of nutrition has played.
If these examples of almost complete starvation had appeared late in the season the effects would have been attributed in a measure to climatic influence  but in the language of Mr.
Stretch they were brought about  in the height of summer.
Some few of the Bombycidse are not cocoonbuilders but merely pass into chrysalides.
On the principle that these are the modified descendants of preexistent forms that possessed the habit we are prepared to explain very much of the mysteiy which envelops Acronycta and Arachnis.
This acquired habit upon the part of each if permitted to bear offspring would no doubt react favorably in the line of higher development.
At this point a few hints upon the present natural arrangement of lepidopterous life upon this planet can not be amiss.
Among Lepidoptera the Rhopalocera constitute the highest division of the suborder.
The arrangement of A. S. Packard Jr. in his  Synthetic Types of Insects seems to countenance no other idea.
The Heterocera embrace all that were formerly known as Crepuscular and Nocturnal Lepidoptera.
These terms with that of Diurnal which were once applied to the entire suborder though strictly unnatural subserve a good purpose.
This arrangement harmonizes in a measure with their natural sequence in time.
If the highest types of life are the modified descendants of preexistent forms then from an evolutionary point of view Butterflies which are assumed to be preeminent among Lepidoptera have sprung from the Bombycidse.
There has undoubtedly been a gradual succession from certain Nocturnals to Diurnals.
There seems to be a tendency nowadays upon the part of naturalists to refer the entire animal creation to a primordial form the Protamceba of Haeckle from which has been reached through endless ramifications the present regime.
That our myriad forms of Butterflies have arisen from a single form in a uniform direction is an hypothesis that cannot be entertained in view of the array of evidence to the contrary.
They have certainly reached their present status by several roads  but assumed in their entirety there can be no question about their evolution from the Bombycidse.
The Sphinges have been possibly reached from aTrichopterous form through the Noctuidse and Bombycidee.
Although this family does appear to hold an intermediate position to Diurnals and Nocturnals and would seem to form a principal link in the chain which has led to the former  still the absence of any positive testimony upon this subject effectually precludes an3 r such arrangement.
Were this the road bj T which the higher types have been reached through the play of natural forces we should expect to meet some of the old landmarks or to see in existing forms some proofs thereof.
The JEgeridse must also be traced back to a preexistent Caddicefly.
In their general form in the outline and the transparency of their alar appendages in their manner of flight and the time of the day when they are most active the JEgeridae approximate the Bymenoptera.
The genus Trochilium of this family resembles in all the above particulars many of our ordinary Membranouswinged insects.
While this family undoubtedly leads forward to the Hymenoptera it reaches backward and claims a near alliance with the Zygsenidse.
These facts have strongly impressed my mind as to their near relationship  and the thought has been frequently suggested may not the Hymenoptera the highest of insect life have been reached through some member of the JEgeridse.
As Trochilium bears the nearest approach to a Hymenopteron of any form of Lepidoptera with which I am familiar so the genus Cosmosoma of the Zygsenidse in many particulars'resembles Trochilium.
From the Zygsenidse to Phryganea through the Noctuidse retrocession is moderately gradual.
An examination into the provisions which lepidopterous larvae make preparatory to entrance upon the chrysalis state rather countenances than opposes this theory.
From the cocoon of the least developed of our moths to the loop and girdle of the Papilionidae etc. remarkable gradations can be established.
The highest perfection in the art of cocoonmanufacture is attained by members of the old Linnaean genus Attacus.
Between the lowest moths and the lowest type of butterflies a wide gulf intervenes.
This is bridged over by many small genera which enable us to reach the latter by a slightly circuitous course.
Leaving out the genus Attacus there seems to be a more nearly continuous route.
May not certain members of this genus constitute the extreme limits of one or more branches of the great tree of lepidopterous life The small loop by which a Papilio or a Vanessa suspends itself to a support when about to pass into a pupa and the girdle which it throws around the middle of its body to prevent unlimited and undue motion whereby injuries are prevented are it seems to me but the last traces of the cocoon with which in primitive times it was wont to inclose itself.
Indeed there is a Brazilian moth of the subfamily Tineina which swings itself from a twig y means of a compound silken thread thus imitating though on a grander scale manof our Papilionidse after which it spins a cocoon a perfect network of fibres so loosely arranged that the chrysalis may be discerned in all the distinctness of its parts.
In this instance the sole object of the cocoon if there can be no impropriety in recognizing it as such is not to protect its inmate from the inclemency of the weather but to be as it were a domicile in which the almost immobile pupa can sleep until it wakens to newness of life.
In point of utility this cocoon judging from the laxity of its formation is but little superior to the slight silken covering with which some of our earthseekers line their cells.
Alucita porectella builds a somewhat similar cocoon  but its beautiful network rivalling in beauty the mechanism of art is hidden away within curledup leaves or underneath them.
There is a very close resemblance in the cocoons of the above two species.
While the Brazilian larva utterly discards all extraneous objects which would mar the beauty and transparency of its house Alucita porectella for some unknown reason selects a leaf as a basis whereon to build its showy fabric a very common occurrence.
As far as my knowledge extends these are the onty two species of the family to which they belong that do not construct cocoons of ordinary compactness.
In Alucita this marked looseness is in a great measure atoned for by the leafy envelope referred to.
Why this deviation from what is usual in the case of the Brazilian species 
The conclusion is not farfetched.
There seems to be a tendency towards the abandonment of a habit which has been proverbial.
What the circumstances are which are determining this change it is not easy to divine.
In this climate cocoons serve to protect their inmates when placed in exposed situations from undue moisture.
Experience has shown that they are capable of enduring with impunity a high degree of cold.
Successive alternations of temperature from cold to warm and vice versa are accompanied by injurious effects.
In tropical countries where the year is divided into two seasons the wet and the dry it is during the latter that the larva changes and prepares for a winged existence consequently the necessity for cocoonmaking does not exist.
The cocoon being of little service to this Brazilian larva other than as a suitable and comfortable support being a relic of the past will doubtless in time be abandoned.
The insect will by degrees adapt itself both structurally and functionally to the new conditions of its environment and support itself by a girdle like that of the Papilionidse.
If butterflies have been evolved from moths we should expect to find some evidences of the fact if not in the forms of existing species at least to a certain extent in the gradations which can be established between cocoonmanufacture and the almost complete abandonment of the art save in a rudimentary state if the girdlelikesupport of the Papilionidse and others can be construed as the traces thereof.
If moths are the parents of butterflies an examination into the past histoiy of our globe as contained in its rockstructure ought to afford some confirmatory evidence.
We should expect to meet with some traces of moths as proofs that they were the earliest lepidopterous life that inhabited this globe.
A review of palaeontological literature upon this subject dissipates all suppositions to the contrary.
In the ironstone concretions from the Carboniferous beds of Morris Illinois besides the remains of Neuroptera proper and Pseudoneuroptera there have been discovered two other forms of extinct articulate life.
Naturalists have described one form as a centipede the other as a caterpillar of a moth the caterpillar was referred to the family of Arciians to which our woolly bears belong.
As to the propriety of so doing Mr. Scudder of Mass. entered a protest.
To this distinguished entomologist they have every appearance of worms.
Leaving this form therefore as unsatisfactory for our present purpose another advance in time brings us to the Jurassic period where more reliable information is awaiting us.
In Europe where the formations characterizing this period are developed on a singularly grand scale but two forms of extinct Lepidoptera have been discovered to my knowledge and these are a moth pertaining to the lowest family the Tineids of which the clothesmoth is a wellknown example and a Sphinx.
In an uninhabited region beyond the Rocky Mountains near the union of the White and Green Rivers Colorado exists a deposit probably far richer in insect remains than that of En in gen in Germany.
In two localities separated by a scope of country about sixtj r miles wide called by Prof. William Denton Chagrin Valley and Fossil Canon considerable remains have been found.
It is peculiarly interesting that these two regions have every indication of being distinct the ants the moth and the thrips nearly all the small coleoptera and the bulk of the diptera come from Fossil Canon  while the larva are restricted to Chagrin Valley.
While no definite conclusion can be arrived at respecting the age of the beds in which these remains are found there can be little hesitancy in assigning them to the Tertiary epoch.
Professor Denton affirms them to be at least as old as the Miocene.
As far as our present knowledge extends the great Tertiary epochs rank preeminently above all others in their yield of fossil lepidoptera.
In confirmation of my position that butterflies are a higher type of Lepidoptera than moths the former being the modified descendants of the latter through several lines of development which had during aeons of cycles gradually almost entirely lost their cocoon making propensities Paheontology the key which has unravelled so many mysteries in biological science lends its allpotent influence.
It has been seen that the earliest of moths of which the globe bears any record belongs to the Tineids the lowest family of Lepidoptera.
This is what our theory presupposes.
As the larvae of these moths generally construct at the present day cocoons of remarkable compactness analogy would seem to argue a nearly similar habit in their early progenitors of the dark days of the Jurassic period.
If it were possible to bring the cocoons of species so widely separated in time into juxtaposition perceptible differences no doubt would be noticed.
Allowing for variation at the ordinary rate of increase during the immensity of time that has elapsed since the Jurassic tineid flourished the contrast would be astounding.
While variation progresses in some species of animals l3 r the constant addition of infinitesimally small increments which are seen after the lapse of indefinite periods of time there are other species which have maintained their own with comparatively kw and trifling changes of character from the early dawn of Silurian times down to the present moment.
The Terebratula of our seas closely resembles its most distant kin.
Whj r maj r not the line which has terminated in our typical Tineids have been marked by a similar uniformity of structure and habits
Other lines of growth may have led from these ancient Tineida to our highest types of cocoonbuilders through which in course of time our butterflies and sphinges were evolved.
If as has been previously remarked the habit of cocoonbuilding originated in the necessity of the times as a means of protecting the builder against undue moisture rather than a low degree of temperature then we should expect to meet in the history of those early times some confirmatory facts which would add further links to the chain of argument which has been assumed to prove that the line of development has been from Nocturnal lepidoptera to Diurnal.
Respecting the climate which prevailed upon the globe when the Jurassic tineid and Sphinx flourished no facts associated with the geographical distribution of species have been ascertained that uphold the idea of a diversity of zones such as now exists.
The facts sustain the view that the climate of the Arctic during this period was at least warmtemperate.
The presence of Belemnites paxillosus and Ammonites biplex or some closelyrelated species according to the authoritj' of Dana in the Arctic the Andes of South America and Europe indicates a remarkable uniformity of climate over the globe.
The character of the plants which then existed affords a cogent reason for believing that a moist climate prevailed.
Experience has taught us that Conifers and trees allied to Yucca and Bromelia Equiseta and Ferns do best where the soil possesses much moisture and the climate is uniform.
The gigantic Conifers of Western North America and the treeferns of the East attain their greatest grandeur where nature abundantly waters the lap of earth Such being a true statement of facts as at present existing what must have been the condition of the earth and atmosphere in those early days to which we have previously referred to have given rise to such profuse and rank vegetation 
The atmosphere must have been deeply surcharged with aqueous vapor which was frequently condensed into rain and precipitated in torrents upon the earth.
The Tineina are the smallest of the small among the Lepidoptera and perhaps the most eccentric in their habits of life.
The larvae also vary in their habits some feed in the open air others in rolledup leaves  others are miners some casebearers and some feed upon clothes or the lining of upholstered articles.
There can be no doubt that the situations in which the larvae are found are w r ell adapted to conceal such tender creatures from the rapacity of vigilant foes.
The cases which these larvae construct with so much taste and skill after having sheltered their fragile forms during the period of feeding serve by slight additional improvements to become fit dwelling places for pupae while preparing for winged existence by affording comfortable shelter from inclement weather.
Whether there existed forms closely allied in habits to Tinea tapetzella T. pellionella and T. crinella that feed upon carpet feathers furs and skin at present palaeontology must bear answer.
It is evident that the majority of the species that flourished during past ages were vegetarians and plied their gastronomic art within some sheltering leaf or case.
During this epoch there flourished various genera of Ferns Cycads Conifers and several species of Equisetum materially dissimilar to any existing forms.
If there were Tineids that subsisted upon feathers and such like as at present they were conspicuously few in number and confined to restricted areas.
The Portland dirtbed has yielded relics of fourteen species of mammals that have been referred mostly to the marsupials and but one or two to the nonmarsupial Inseclivora.
These mammals were associated with remains of insect life.
These facts encourage the idea of a possibility of haireating Tineids.
This period being preeminently one of reptiles when the gigantic Sawrians lived and delighted in their carnivorous exploits could scarcely have witnessed any remarkable development of moths.
Vegetation of a particular character being very prolific then there is ground for believing that an excess of Tineids of herbivorous habits would have been better adapted to the existing condition of things.
As living Tineids so far as I am conversant with their history only attack woollen stuffs furs feathers etc. when stripped from their rightful proprietors and not when constituting their living vesture analogy would expect a similar exhibition of character upon the part of their remote progenitors.
The fur of dead animals is however utilized while also remaining intact.
Many of our living larval Tineids construct cases into which the' retire and which they bear with them from place to place when they do not otherwise tunnel the leaves of their favorite foodplants.
There can be no impropriety in presuming the existence of similar habits upon the part of their distant ancestors.
The warm temperate climate which prevailed during the Jurassic epoch with its excessive moisture and humid atmosphere offers a weight' argument in favor of cocoon or rather casebuilders.
Lepidoptera as a rule are exceedingly delicate and fragile beings very liable when life is extinct to speedy decomposition.
Therefore it is not to be wondered at that their remains are not found in greater abundance.
When we reflect that there have been many alterations of level since the day when the Jurassic fauna flourished it is highly probable that many forms have irrecoverably perished.
But when the rockstructure of the globe is better known new forms may come to light which will doubtless help to fill up existing gaps in the chain of historical sequence.
The presence of a Spihinx with moths that occupy so low a position in the order as Tineids is a remarkable coincidence and would seem to require a different explanation in view of the then existing aspect of affairs than the one which I have endeavored to establish.
If future explorations and discoveries should fail to reveal the existence of lepidopterous life further back in time or the existence of intermediate forms to the Tineids and Sphinges it is almost impossible to resist the conclusion that these forms originated almost synchronously from some lower forms of articulate existence in other language that they are branches from a common scion or stock.
It seems to be more in harmony with known facts to consider the Sphinges to have been the modified descendants of some preexistent Bombycid the latter of a Noctuid etc. and to await the further developments of palseontological science in confirmation of this position.
As previously remarked there has been found in the Carboniferous strata of Morris Illinois a larva that has been referred to the Arctians or woollybears.
Granting the truth of this identification for the sake of argument the period of time that has elapsed since the Carboniferous arctian flourished down to the ushering into existence of the Jurassic sphinx has been ample no doubt for the gradual evolution of an Arctian into a Sphinx through intermediate forms.
The fact that Tineids are not found in Carboniferous strata is no argument for their nonexistence.
If the Tineids of those early days had many points in common with existing types it is only under the most favorable conditions that parts of them could be preserved.
That these conditions did not exist during the Triassic period is inferred from our knowledge of the disturbances which took place in America and the shallow basins both of fresh and salt water that existed in foreign localities where this formation is developed.
Evidences of disturbance occur in this country in the tilted and displaced condition of the beds constituting the formation.
This tilting is doubtless due to mechanical force very gradual in its action.
Still further evidence exists in the profound subsidence which has been shown to have been in progress in regions of depression occupied by the strata.
Such a subsidence would obviously have brought a strain upon superincumbent beds and sooner or later would have produced fractures and disarrangement.
The injection of igneous rocks which have intersected sandstone strata affords still another proof.
In our Triassic regions rocks of igneous origin are intimately connected with rocks of aqueous origin.
Throughout most of the European sandstones and marls of this period the occurrence of ripplemarks raindrop impressions and cracks from drying plainly show that the strata are of shallowwater and mudflat origin and the salt which has been found and referred thereto points to the existence of flats that were exposed to occasional inundations of the sea where the salt water underwent evaporation.
It is evident that in America where the greater disturbance of the strata has occurred as indicated above such light and airy creatures as moths would stand but a slim chance of leaving the slightest vestiges of their remains imbedded.
The tilting and subsidence alluded to combined with the metamorphic character imposed upon many strata by the injection of trap in a state of igneous fluidity if lepidopterous life then existed have either completely removed it from our reach or obliterated every trace of remains once preserved.
In Europe when we take into consideration the areas in which these beds were deposited we are not surprised at the absence of traces of lepidopterous life.
Being shallow basins of fresh water with mudflat margins and occasional flats submerged b' inundations of salt water we should not expect to meet with lepidopterous life.
It is onty in such localities that we should look for the remains of neuropterous insects.
It is a remarkable fact that the only fossil insect thus far observed is the larva or exuviae of the larva of a neuropter related to the genus Ephemera which was found in the shales at Turner's Falls on the Connecticut River and described by Prof. Hitchcock.
The impressions of the feet of insects found in the sandstones of the Connecticut River valley were undoubtedly of neuropterous and crustaceous character.
Unless the advent of the Tineids dates further back in time than the Jurassic allowing the family to be the lowest of the Heterocera we have the simultaneous origin of insects as low in the scale of creation as these with others the Sphinges which mark a preeminently higher type of development unless it can be shown which is exceedingly uncertain that the former claim priority of birth and constitute the immediate and proximate ancestry of the latter.
The chapters of the Stone Book of Nature so far as the are perusable do not reveal any such history.
The intermediate links by which the chain of existence from Tineids passes into Sphinges are missing and doubtless will never be restored.
If Tineids have passed directly into the Sphinges would not unless our present t3'pes are the degenerated forms of preexistent ones some unmistakable evidences be found in studying the earl r stages of modern species
Instances could be multiplied beyond limit of the special roads which nature has pursued in reaching particular forms from others that occupy an inferior position.
The simplest forms of life of which we have any conception are the Monera which may be defined as living jelly formless and structureless.
They move along by a sort of gliding motion which is produced by a protrusion and retraction of portions of their substance.
Their reproduction is exceedingly simple being a splitting of their body into halves each half developing into a new Monas.
The absence of a nucleus characterizes the chief point of distinction between these and the Amoebse.
A Sponge may be considered as a colony of Amcebse the individual members of which are united by a common bond of union  this view is suggested by the young of the Sponges which cannot be distinguished from Amcebee.
The development of flagella and cilia as in Euglena has led the way to the Animalcula or Infusoria.
Nor need we confine our attention to these simple forms of animal life.
As we ascend the scale we meet with equally forcible illustrations.
Prof.
Cope in his  Origin of Genera in writing about the higher Cervidse affirms that  Rusa and Axis never assume characters be r ond an equivalent of the fourth year of Cervus.
In Dama the characters are on the other hand assumed more rapidly than in Cervus its third year corresponding to the fourth of the latter and the development in after years of a broad plate of bone with points being substituted for the addition of the corresponding snags thus commencing another series.
In the Cephalopoda a number of series of remarkable regularity can be established.
The advance in the first place being in the complicated arrangement of the plicae of the external borders of the septa  in the second place in the approach which one or both extremities of the shell make to the spiral  and lastly in the position of the siphon.
Alpheus H r att in an interesting and important essay upon this topic makes the assertion that the less complex forms are identical with the undeveloped condition of the more complex.
His language is There is a direct connection between the position of a shell in the completed cycle of the life of this order and its own development.
These shells occupying the extremes of the cycle the polar forms being more embryonic than the intermediate forms.
Such evidence as has just been adduced of the gradual modification of living species some of the separate links of the chain which bind the less with the more highly specialized being observable in the history of development of individual species is of the most positive and satisfactory character.
Can we bring forward similar evidence in confirmation of the position that the Sphinges are directly descended from the Tineidsf I apprehend not.
Whence the simultaneous occurrence of these two forms in 4 the same formation
Is it an argument in favor of the descent of the former from the latter
As an answer to this query two theories suggest themselves  either to consider the Tineids to have come into existence long anterior to the Carboniferous arctian and to have been the remote progenitor of the latter as it has doubtless been of the Sphinges or to consider the Sphinges as a highty specialized form of Pseudoneuroptera with Bombycid and Noctuidlike characters.
In some of our modern classifications of insects the Caddice worms which are comprehended in the genus Phryganea are reputed as belonging to the order Neuroptera.
According to Westwood however this genus constitutes the connecting link between the Neuroptera and Lepidoptera.
Since the Caddice worms present many marks of resemblance to the Neuroptera while in others they approach the Lepidoptera they are considered by the abovenamed eminent authority as constituting a distinct order called Trichoptera.
In their larval condition these Trichopterous insects are not altogether dissimilar to caterpillars in configuration and construct for themselves cylindrical cases or tubes made up of sand small pebbles fragments of sticks leaves or even shells.
When fully grown the larva secures its case to a stone the stem of a plant or some other fixed material and closes somewhat the two ends with an open grating of silken threads so as to admit the ready access of water and keep out intruders.
Within this covering the pupa condition is assumed.
It bears a very close resemblance to the perfect insect except that the palpi wings antenna and legs are shorter and inclosed in distinct sheaths and disposed upon the breast.
The pupa is not so perfectly quiescent as the pupae of Lepidoptera since as it approaches maturity it comes to the surface and in a few instances makes its way out of the water.
It is obvious that in the points of character thus briefly detailed there is a close relationship to the early history of Lepidoptera.
But the larvae being aquatic which is the case with very few Lepidoptera and the pupae being capable of locomotion near the time of emergence from the tube on the other hand ally them to Neuroptera.
Besides a resemblance in habits to the casebearing larvae of the genera Psyche and Tinea a still further affinity has been noticed the analogous covering of the alar appendages in the Phryganidse and some Papilios and the analogously spiniferous tibiae in the two groups.
DeGeer deduced this affinity from the analogous configuration of the wings and from the internal conformation of the larva
 Kirby from resemblances in the buccal apparatus and Reaumur from general considerations upon insect analogies.
The Phryganidse are an intermediate group to the Neuroptera and Lepidoptera as the most satisfactory evidence backed up by the wellbalanced judgments of competent authorities so amply and ably testifies.
The Ephemerids though a somewhat distant kin of the Phryganidee. in the Triassic Bphemeron referred to above is it not a plausible hypothesis that we have the progenitor though very remotely of the Jurassic sphinx
Future discoveries may reveal to us when these formations are more thoroughly known the intermediate links by which the Sphinges were reached from an Ephemeridlike neuropter through a Trichopterous form allied to our present Caddice flies thence through certain extinct species of Noctuidee and Bombycidse doubtless having characters which relate them somewhat intimately to ex.
isting types.
That the passage of the Sphinges proper has not been through the Zygsenidse amounts to a conviction in my mind.
There are reasons of a morphological character and others that favor such a preconception.
Among existing Bombycids there are forms that resemble both in the larval and imago states our Sphinges proper Notodonta Galifornica Stretch is a good illustration.
The larvae in general form and in having a horn upon its anal segment according to Dr. Behr would be taken as a Sphinx and doubtless would be described as such in the absence of an' knowledge concerning its early stages.
The imago pre.
sents in the general contour of the body in the attenuated form of the anterior wings in being decidedly chalinopterous and in the characteristic shape of the posterior alar appendages a very close alliance to some Sphinges with which I am familiar.
I do not assert the belief that this species is identical in the aggregate of its characters with the Bombycid from which the Jurassic Sphinx sprang but that it can be taken as a fair sample of the proximate ancestor of the latter.
As before remarked there is some resemblance upon the part of Phryganea to the genus Psyche among moths and the Papilios among butterflies  from which it might be argued that the Bombycids if they have come from the Phryganese must have assed through the Psychidae.
But the slight similarity of the Caddice flies instance Neuronia fasciata Say to the Papilios the highest type of Diurnals and a similar resemblance of Neuronia to certain existing Bombycids and Noctuids seem to bring Phryganea more closely to the Bombycidae.
The resemblance of Phryganea in habits to Psyche and Tinea would in face of previous evidence rank these forms as branches thereof.
In a careful examination of our ordinary Neuronia fasciata Say I find that the anterior wings in their general contour and venation resemble the typical Neuropters  while the posterior in the same important characters bear a decided approach to some of our Zygaenidse.
In general form there is some resemblance fancied or otherwise to Hopffer's Gnophcela  but a more decided likeness to some existing forms of the genus Ctenucha is found to exist.
The contour of the first pair of alar appendages in the genus Ctenucha is not essentially dissimilar to those of Neuronia although the variation may be slightly different.
In Neuronia the external margins of the posterior wings midway between the apical margins and the commencement of the line of descent to the abdomen display a slight curvature inwardly producing a peculiar conformation.
By examination of figured specimens of Ctenucha brunnea and ochroscapus more particularly unmistakable evidences of these curves are found to exist.
From Zygsenidse like these together with Cosmosoma omphale Hubner it would seem to require but little effort upon the part of natural selection to reach from certain Caddice flies through intermediate forms living or extinct the JEgeridee.
In this train of argument I have assumed the JEgeridee from which the Hymenoptera have sprung to have descended from some form of Phryganea through the Zygaenidse and others and to represent the terminus of one branch of the wide spreading tree of Lepidopterous life  and the Sphingidse through the Bombycidae Noctuidae and Phryganea another.
That the Sphinges have descended from a Phryganea with Bombycidike characters is entertained for several important reasons.
The absence of intermediate t r pes to the Tineids and Sphinges in the rockstructure of the globe as far as I have been permitted to read it  the great abundance of Neuropterous life that inhabited the globe during the period when the Triassic and Jurassic faunae flourished from forms resembling our May flies to the highest type of the order the very close resemblances which subsist between certain existing Lepidoptera and Trichoptera both internal and external in their three stages of existence as larvae pupae and imagos  and lastly their remarkable similarity of habits.
In commenting upon the first consideration it strikes me as peculiarly novel and remarkable that such delicate creatures as Tineids should be preserved in association with Sphinges there not being the remotest affinities between them while the intermediate types if there are any which palaeontology alone must decide in the future should have left not even the slightest evidence of their existence.
A few thoughts having reference to the second consideration lead to more important results.
The great abundance of Neuropterous life both high and low that existed during the Triassic and Jurassic epochs backed up by the third consideration which shows that notable affinities exist between certain forms of Lepidoptera and Phryganea seems to argue strongly in favor of the theory that the Jurassic sphinx was the remote modified descendant of some preexistent Caddice fly which latter was the offspring of some formertyexisting Neuropter.
The Tineids of today are as a general rule but diminutive specimens of lepidopterous life notable alike for their inconspicuousness and insignificance.
Rarely if ever attaining any remarkable development of size they doubtless have retained much of their primitive character.
Like some forms of Terebratula as before remarked they have maintained the even tenor of their lives doubtless for ages.
Natural selection has had little play in the line of variation in this family.
It has been affirmed that the Caddice worms construct cases like the larvae of Psyche and Tinea which they line with silk.
Fi'om this it is argued that Psyche and Tinea have been evolved from some form of Phryganea and that the Sphinges have come through the former.
But this does not necessarily follow.
May not the Phryganidse have been the common stock of both Tineids and Sphinges the latter being a more highly specialized type from having been reached through greater and more persistent modifications 
Perhaps there were existing in those remote ages many forms of Phryganidse differing greatly in size but still retaining similarity of habits.
Granting this for the sake of argument there can be no impropriety in considering the Tineids to have been the immediate descendants of some low form of Caddice fly and to have Ions since reached the limit of their capacity for further modification.
The' would thus constitute the summits of several small branches of the Phryganeid root from which the Psychidse and Tortricina were derived.
Although it is possible as previously remarked to trace with considerable success the gradual abandonment of cocoon manufacture from rather low moths where it exists in wonderful perfection to its rudimentary condition in Diurnals and even to show certain stages which appear to have led to the cellmaking of the Sphingidae  yet in the absence of further evidence of a different chai'acter in the face of previouslycited facts it would not be advisable.
It is well known that among the Bombycidse there are existing forms that resemble in some points of character the butterflies.
In color bodily form and in being to a certain extent lovers of sunshine Utethe'isa bella Linn. approaches the butterflies.
Among the Zygsenidae similar relations are known to exist as instanced by Alypia Brannani Stretch.
Other examples might be given but time will not permit the merest mention of them.
The larva of Alypia enters the ground where it constructs an earthen cocoon and lines it internally with a varnishlike secretion before assuming the pupa condition.
In this particular it imitates certain moths.
The early histoiy of the genus Utetheisa is partially involved in obscurity.
It is impossible to say where the pupa state is assumed.
It seems in harmony with facts to consider butterflies to have descended from some species of Bombycid whose larva possessed a comparatively smooth exterior and was a moderate spinner of silk the support and girdle of the Papilionidee anil others being the remaining traces of the cocoon by which their remote progenitor was accustomed to envelop itself.
The larva of Utetheisa bella Hiibn. has been found in the pods of Crotelaria from which it is inferred that it is an internal feeder.
It is yellow with black and white rings.
In markings and in its comparatively smooth integument it resembles some of the Papilios.
If it should be shown in the future that it spins a slight cocoon this fact would lend material aid to the views herein set forth.
The larva of Phryganidia Calif 'ornica with its naked skin and uninclosed and pendent pupa reminds me of many Rhopalocera and some Geometree.
It has been classed with the Psychidse by Packard and owing to its near alliance to Heterogynnis which is removed by many European writers to the Zygaenidse it has been placed by Stretch in that group.
One of the latter's reasons for this removal is the resemblance which its larva holds to that of Eudryas.
But its habit of carrying the last segment elevated in the air which shows a certain affinity to some Nofodontas as well as to Gerxira and Platypteryx and of suspending itself by the tail like the Geometrse combined with the close resemblance which the wings bear to some butterflies renders it an interesting form.
The facts for the origin of butterflies herein embodied in connection with the above aim to place it high up in Bombycidse.
It has been suggested that the Sphinges are the remotely modified descendants of a preexistent Phryganea.
It is well known that the larva of the latter constructs a case into which it retires after feeding.
As this case with its inmate remains in its watery element until the imago state is near at hand if the argument previously advanced to prove the remote origin of the Sphingidse through intermediate forms from a Phryganea allied to existing types amounts to aught we have in it a clue to the habit which many of our Zygeenidse and Sphingidse possess of entering the earth in assuming the chrysalis stage.
The JEgeridse in their larval stage bore into the stem of plants and when ready to pass into pupa construct oblong follicles composed of small fragments of barks and earth closely united together by the silk of the animal.
This style of cover is not essentially different from that of the Sphinges and the Glaucopidians.
As the ravages of these insects are confined to the inner parts of plants it is not unreasonable to suppose that when the time for change arrives it will be undergone where there is least trouble and least outhoy of strength in the burrows created.
The Zygeenidse as a rule subsist upon the outer parts of plants On the supposition that some preexisting individual of this family had profited by a change from outer to inner it would be a comparatively easy matter to trace the effects which a change of environment would impress upon said individual.
We might expect considerable alterations in larval color form and structure with but a trifling change in cellmanufacture.
In the condition of larvae the Trichoptera are vegetarians but will occasionally attack minute freshwater animals when driven to it by necessity.
As vegetable feeders they resemble caterpillars.
Suppose the stream in which some early caterpillars of caddicelike habits and forms were residents had become dried up or directed from its bed in such a manner as not to effect the removal of the worms and still leave the bed humid there is no doubt that those worms which possessed some advantage above their fellows better suited to the altered condition of affairs would be preserved and leave progeny.
These would gradually as time progressed become better adapted to their condition giving rise to a higher type of existence.
A change in the specific gravity of their environment would necessarily have the tendency as an obviation of the inconvenience thereby engendered of producing changes of habit on the assumption of pupation.
This hypothetical case would seemingly account for the habitudes of the Glaucopidians and the Sphinges.
Another explanation suggestive of the same idea presents'itself for consideration.
A scarcity of food might induce larva
wellcircumstanced in the  struggle for existence to forsake their habitual haunt the watery element for the land as a preventive to starvation.
If slightly adapted to endure the change of habitat the effects of direct atmospheric influence associated with dietetic causes might so disturb their equipoise as to lead to a better adjustment of inner to outer actions and thus be determinative of the same results.
While some of these larva in order to harmonize inner with outer actions or to restore as nearly as possible former modes of living on the attainment of pupa
may have passed into the ground others doubtless reached the same end by boring into the stems of succulent plants with or without a medulla for cover and protection as well as for food  some again as if reluctant to forsake their cases the scenes of so many pleasures and adventures in the past carried their cases with them as many of our Psychidae and Tineidse still do until metamorphoses ensued  others again ceased gradually to encumber themselves therewith during their larval existence nature having provided them with suitable protective appliances in the form of irritating hairs dangerouslooking though perfectly harmless spines offensive fluids with equally offensive odors and disgusting carneous qualities  to be only reassumed on the assumption of the chrysalis state as suitable protections against inclement weather during this critical period of radical changes.
If the views embodied in the last paragraph have any semblance of reality we should expect to meet with in the habits of existing species confirmatory proofs.
Among the Hydrocampidse Paraponyx closely resembles in larval form and habits the Phryganese.
Its larva is possessed of large branchiae besides spiracles and its pupa is found in a cocoon amongst leaves under water.
There is another species quite common in France which subsists upon a species of pond weed.
In the caterpillar state it cuts two pieces of leaf and fashions them so as to become nearly oval in shape and equal in size.
These are joined by their margins by means of a little silk the larva taking special care to leave an opening for the head and the first segments of the body.
It drags this house under water occasionally destroying it for a more substantial domicile.
When it is ready to assume the chrysalis state it attaches its leafy house securely to plants or stones in the immediate vicinity.
The China Mark's caterpillar lives underneath the leaves of a species of Lemma in the water and protects itself in a cylindrical case of silk covered with leaves in which it subsequently becomes metamorphosed into a chrysalis.
Here it is evident is the starting point for the development of the higher moths.
It is not to be presumed that the Hydrocampidae are the immediate descendants of the Phryganese.
There may be other forms somewhat lower of whose existence we have no knowledge.
In the accompanying tree I have preferred to represent these forms under the name of ideal Paraponyx and to consider them as the immediate progenitors of those whose lifehistory I have partially described.
The pupa of Eudryas unio Riley has been found in winter in the stems of a species of Hibiscus as though the larva had been feeding in that location.
Psychomorpha epimenis Clem. frequently perforates a piece of old wood and changes into a chrysalis therein.
Its habit of boring into some substances to prepare for the change is inveterate and it always neatly covers up the orifice so that it is difficult to detect.
Other instances might be cited.
The species just cited belong to the Zygsenidse from which it has been assumed the JEgeridee were evolved.
There is a manifest resemblance to the latter with the important difference that the larvae of the JEgeridse pass through their early stages in the steins of plants and never forsake them until fitted for winged existence while the Zygsenidse pass therein when about to change into chrysalides.
There may be instances where the entire suite of changes is affected in such retreats.
It is well known that many of the caterpillars of the genus Gracillaria among the Tineids and the genus Enectra among the Tortricidse possess similar boring propensities.
Higher up on the scale of lepidopterous life the genus Nonagria of the family Leucanidse imitate still more closely the habits of the Zygaenidse and JEgeridse in feeding in the stems of reeds and grasses.
There may be cited instances among the fiombycinse as the Hepdlidse.
Our own Cossns robin ae Peck is a happy illustration.
The existence of a similar habit among this latter famity to that which the Leucanidse Zygaenidas and JEgeridae possess does not argue in favor of the view that it constitutes a link in the chain which has led from the Noetuidae to jEgeridse.
It shows that this family constitutes a small branch from the Noetuidae.
The presence of this habit among such low forms as the Tortricidse and Tineidae embrace which have deviated but slightly from primitive habits would seem to argue for analogous habits among some unknown individuals of the Hydrocampidse.
When these forms in their larval condition are made the subjects of special investigation by naturalists and new tj pes or new individuals of existing types are brought to light it may be the good fortune of science to record types which instead of constructing cases like those quoted above derive the same essential benefits by boring into the stems of submerged plants or into the veins or parenchyma of their leaves like the members of the Tineid genus Lithocolletis which mine the leaves of various plantspecies from their under surface and eat their cellular structures.
These beings it is true must necessarily be very diminutive in size.
Those which have denied themselves such comfortable and protective dwellings as are afforded by cases and tunnels in consideration of the various defensive appliances with which nature has endowed them are very numerous.
So familiar are these even to the most casual observer that it does not behoove me to give the barest recital of a single example.
Indeed there are cases where these external tegumental weapons by themselves do not conserve to individual safety  and their unfortunate possessors are constrained to construct immense webs which afford common tenements for hundreds of individuals of particular species.
This is the case with our common American Fruit Caterpillar Clisiocampa Americana.
It has been said that the Caddice worms construct cases in which they reside and which they close by means of threads at the ends when about to pupate so as to admit the water through their interstices and keep out enemies.
It is obvious that water does not injure the pupa.
Nature like a faithful nurse carefully protects the interests of every one of her countless progeny by making its inner life correspond with outer actions.
On the ground that water is beneficial to the pupa of a Phryganea we have an explanation of the comparative openness of its cocoon at the ends.
It was further remarked that Paraponyxin the larval condition was endowed with both branchiae and spiracles.
This seems to be a very wise provision of nature.
The branchiae enable the insect to breathe like fishes when immersed in a watery element.
May it not be that the spiracles are quiescent and only come into possession of their legitimate function when the chiysalis state has been assumed and the animal is inclosed in a cocoon which is perfectly tight 
As the chrysalis while in this stage respires but feebly and imperceptibly there is in this home of its construction an ample capacity of air for the accommodation of its wants.
It is affirmed that Lepidosiren in addition to lungs possesses both internal and external gills  the latter being in a rudimentary condition in the adult form.
The rivers of South America and of the east and west shores of Africa where this animal exists during drouth are dried up.
Did it breathe entirely by means of gills it would be in danger of extinction during the dry season  but being endowed with lungs also it is enabled to meet the contingency and thus survive.
Should the streams in which numbers of Paraponyx larvae reside during a season of drouth become entirely dried up the sudden and doubly renewed efforts of these animals in their  struggle for existence would doubtless so operate upon the spiracles and trachea as to necessarily lead to their perfect development and functional activity.
It is a familiar occurrence that the wings of moths butterflies etc. when first they leave the chrysalis cover are short saclike bodies  but by their energetic movements speedily develop into their characteristic forms.
This is accounted for in the following manner These wings are pervaded b r numerous minute divisions of the trachea which by the violent motions of the wings are supplied with a superabundance of air the necessary consequence of redoubled vigor.
The continual pressure of fresh accessions of air upon what already exists in the above vessels exerts an expansive influence upon the wings which ultimately assume configuration.
Such being a faithful statement of facts as we find them there can be no hesitancy in assuming that a change of conditions as above indicated in the animal's violent struggles for existence would so react upon its hitherto quiescent spiracles as to conduce to their functional activity.
Like the adult Lepidosiren there may 3'et be discovered some unknown Paraponyx which possesses these gills only during its early larval history.
The presence of gills and spiracles in the known specimen argues in favor of its derivation from a type that possessed gills alone.
If these spiracles are quiescent and only become active in a measure during the period of pupation as has been presumed the passage into forms that possess this gillbreathing power during their early larval period and thence into others that have completely renounced it is exceedingly gradual.
Some of these Eydrocampidse it is affirmed by Duncan in his  Transformations of Insects have branchiae or gills and exist surrounded and bathed by water.
This fact conducts to the inference that they are wholly gillbreathers.
From a Paraponyx possessed of both gills and spiracles to the Phryganea is but a moderate transition.
However it is not presumed that said Paraponyx has been immediately derived from a Phryganea neither is it predicated that the complete gillbearing form has been the proximate descendant of a Phryganea.
But so closely do the larvae of Paraponyx in form and habits resemble existing Caddice worms that the conclusion based upon their near relationship seems irresistible.
Ma3 T not the branchiabearing form of Paraponyx have been the immediate descendant of some preexistent form of similar habits but of closer resemblance to Phryganea in details of form and structure in a state of maturit 7 
Acting upon this consideration I have presumed their derivation from a form at present unknown which I have previously designated the ideal type.
Having somewhat lengthily detailed the truths which have led to the views expressed in this paper it becomes me to put them to a proper test.
With a view to give tone and character thereto the idea of constructing a tree of life based upon the habits of the Heterocera during their larval history suggested itself to my mind.
After many hours of toil I have been enabled to construct a tree which will I hope bear the scrutiny of investigation and come out unscathed since it harmonizes in the arrangement of its parts with the most thorough system of classification.
54 ca 60  o E O 05 P ca   3 u K cS .E cS P. a o o u L. a X O OJ P.  o. o J3 P. u o ft. 2 '3 8 a. ft. o To a .a o a.
S g CD oS J3 P. C5 fc ft E  o a P. o C3 O ft.u P. ft. 03 a o Ji m a P. ft. 3 c .S P. ft O a o a r J3
