THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE DIAMETERS OF THE INCISORS IN RODENTS.
BY JXO.
A. RYDER.
Upon making sections of the cutting or incisor teeth of various species of rodents and rodent-lilve animals, it is observed that a great disparity exists amongst the various forms in respect to the ratio of the antero-posterior to tlieir transverse diameters.
This character is sufficiently marl^ed to divide the order into two sharply-defined groups as follows : — a Incisors wider than thick ;' b " thicker than "wide.
A number of species falling under the definition of group a may be arranged in a series in which the final terms approach group 6, thus, Ilesotherium, Lepiis, Lagornys, and Phascolomys, the marsupial.
In the same w'ay,a series may be arranged which shall represent a gradual intensification of the character as indicated in the definition of group &, thus, Castor, Lagoslomus, Cavia, Mus, Calamodon, and AvchrppoduH, amongst Tteniodonts; Sciurus and Cheii^omys, amongst primates.
The curvature of the upper incisors in group a is greater than in 6, that is, an arc which will coincide with their curvature is the segment of a smaller circle ; in both groups the curvature of the lower incisors is less than that of the upper ones.
In the last and extreme type of group a, the antero-posterior diameter of the lower inner incisor is to its transverse as 1 is to 3 ; converseh', in the extreme forms of group 6, the antero-posterior diameter very greatl}'' exceeds the transverse, the ratios being as 3, or even more, is to 1.
These contrasts become visually apparent in the cut, where the diagrams of cross-sections of incisors of rodents and rodent-like animals all stand in the same position with reference to fore and aft and lateral directions.
The two groups may be further distinguished as follows: — a GuawiiiG; apparatus not so powerfully developed or specialized ; Temporal muscles feeble, or inserted very close to condj'les ; Crowns of incisors widely separated from pterygoid processes ; Incisive alveoli extending as far as, or a little further back than, the symphysis maudibuli.
This grouping, it should be remembered, is entirely morphological.
isn.]
315 b Gnawers of hard substances ; incisors grcatlj' developed ; Temporal muscles and pter^vgoid processes strongly developed ; Crowns of incisors relatively near pterygoid processes ; (Masseters greatly developed, Cantor') ; Incisive alveoli extending beyond syiupliysis mandibuli, and often reaching to the base of the pterygoid processes.
The diametricall,y opposite structural characters jtointed out signify more or less diametrically opposite habits.
The genera of group a have relatively vv^eak incisors as compared with those of 6, whicli is in obvious correlation with the feebleness with which they manifest the gnawing habit.
Whatever may have been the waj'S in which the \nc\sors of Me^othei-ium were used, it is very evident that they could never have been used in the same wa}' as those of the squirrel and beaver.
They appear to have been wholly adapted for cropping herbage, and not in the slightest degree for gnawing.
The Leporidse and Lagomyidse with their feeble incisors have also a very moderately developed gnawing habit, which is in accordance with the weakness of their incisive mechanism.
The presence of an accessory pair of incisors of weaker development in the lower jaw of Mesotherium and in the upper jaw of the Leporidse and Lagomyidse^ the deciduous outer, upper, and lower pairs in Cheiromys, the apparent continuity of the incisive with the molar series in the Tseniodonta, give us a hint as to the probable manner in which the evolution and functionalization of the median anterior pair of teeth (incisors) came about in the gnaAvers and aberrant gnawing forms of other orders.
It may be said, in a general wa}', that the excess of the antero-posterior diamea, cross-section of a lower, 6, of an upper, incisov of the squirrel ; c, do, of a lower, and d, of an upper, incisor of the beaver; «, do.
of an upper, and/, of a lower, incisor of the hare : g, cross-section of a lower incisor of Cnlamodon simpltx (after Cope) ; h, do.
of an upper, and i", of a lower, incisor of Oheiromyn ; J, do.
of au upper incisor o{ Mesotlierinmcristatum ; k, do.
of au upper incisor of Ccelogenyo : I, do.
of an upper incisor of HydrnchcBrus ; m, the form of the obliquely worn face of an upper incisorof Phngcdlinnys ; ?J, cross-section of both upper incisors of Cavia aperea.
The anterior portions of the sections look towards the left hand.
ter of the chisel-like incisors of group b over their transverse one is in obvious correlation with the liardness of the substances which the}' are designed to cut.
The illustrations which verify this assumption are sufficiently striking to make the principle clear.
I will cite but four.
The beaver is notorious for the magnitude of tlie work he will accomplish with his busy jaws and incisor teeth, wliicli are in the form of curved, subtriangular prisms : a form well adapted to secure strengtii, and frequently met with amongst the cavies, porcupines, and chinchillas, though, in tlie latter, a cross-section often approaches more the form of an isosceles triangle with its most acute angle pointing in a backward direction.
This form of tooth, of course, has the same meclianical advantages to resist breaking strains as that with the sides nearlj' parallel, as in the squirrel.
Incisor teeth, pyriform in section, are found in tlie guinea-pig and the fossil Tffiuiodont Calamodon; tliis, like the last, has similar mechanical advantages.
The squirrel,' with its power of gnawing the exceedingly hard covering of nuts to obtain tlieir nutritious contents, is a second familiar example.
The destructive abilities of mice and rats are due to the form of their incisors and powerful masseter muscles.
Lastly, Cheii'omys, the insectivorous lemurine primate, beaver-like, gnaws open the bunow of its pre}-, tlie larva?
of wood-boring insects.
The incisors of tliis group, constructed, as they are, witli reference to the use of the least amount of material, are still further strengthened by their form; that is, they are curved in such a way as to cause the lines of greatest strain to pass longitudinally through a great part of the mass of the tooth.
This end is attained in the beaver and squirrel by an admirable arrangement of the masseter muscles, the fibres of which are disposed in lines parallel to that of the greatest strain exerted u[)on the lower incisors.
This arrangement of muscular fibres also admits of the application of the ' One African species is reported as gnawing ivory, by M. Du Chaillu, but only on the authority of the natives.
He has named it on this account Sciurus eborivorus (see Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Ilist.
vol.
vii.
p. 363).
Prof.
Cope informs me that, on the plains, the fallen antlers of deer are gnawed by rodents ; and some assert that they are entirely eaten up in this way, wliicli is held to account for the infrequeucy with which they are ound where many thousands are annually shed.
whole of their power without mechanical loss, which would not be the case did not such parallelism exist.
Whatever strain passes transversely through the teeth, and which ma}' more properly be regarded as breaking strain, must pass through Iheir long diameter; in this way tlie same mechanical advantage is secured as where a builder places a horizontal beam in such a position that the greatest strain shall fall through its greatest diameter.
The foregoing facts may tlien be interpreted thus : — 1.
Where the incisors are wider than thick, the gnawing habit is feebly developed.
2.
Where the incisors are thicker than wide, the gnawing habit is greatly developed.
That is to sa}^, a certain manner of using the incisor teeth (to gnaw) has been a continuous stimulus to which growth force has been as continuously responsive.
The opposite forms of development have thus been the result of stimuli differing in kind and degree.
According to this view, plastids are brought in increased numbers wherever an increased amount of work is to be done, while at the same time an increased waste of structure is going on, solel}' b}' the operation of the above causes, while those causes are in and of themselves wlioU^passive.
Illustrations immediately occuito us wiiere we have the working of such principles displayed: in muscular work, massage and alterations in the form of parts due to the establishment of new and approximately normal relations with the environment, as happens in unreduced dislocations and fractures; the thickening of the epidermis of the knee, as on the sole of the foot, and due, like the last, to frequent and similar contact with the earth as a passive stimulus.
The significance of accessor}^ rudimentary incisors present in some forms of true rodents, as pointing to the manner in which the evolution of the rodent type of dentition took place, ma}' be overrated, yet, when it is borne in mind that in other groups the appearance of diastemata between the different kinds of teeth took place gradually, and in a way which unmistakably shows the gradual steps of the process, we may be excused for thinking the same to have been the case here, althougli without positive, tangil)le evidence in the shape of intermediate fossil forms that exhibit such a passage from the ordinary type.
We have four instances pointing towards a progressive functionalization of the median pair of incisors as gnawing teetii, and this, taken together with the evidence j-ielded by their forms in section, induces us to venture the reflection that the more severe strains to which they were subjected by enforced or intelligently assumed changes of habit were the initiatory agents in causing them to assume their pi'esent forms — such forms as were best adapted to resist great strain without breaking.
I am aware that this relation between function and structure, in the case of the incisors of rodents, has been pointed out long since, but it seems to have been coldly received by most anatomists, perhaps because not in accordance with the theory of special creations.
Not wishing to discuss the merits of such an objection, it seems to us far more reasonable to believe that organisms are gradually shaped (modified, transmuted) by forces under the surveillance of an orderly reign of law, i.e., to a series of mechanical causes producing morphological effects, tlian to resort to an endless chain of special expedients to account for the facts.
In respect to the changes in the mandibular articulation and muscular motor apparatus of the jaws of Hodentia, I venture to suggest that these have had an origin similarly due to enforced or intelligently assumed changes in the mode in which their functions were exercised.
The molar teeth have also been modified hy the same agency, as will be shown elsewhere.
December 4.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-nine members present.
On the Introduction and Disappearance of Plants.
— Mr. Isaac C. Martindale spoke of the appearance of plants in certain localities, where, heretofore, they had not been detected, and of their disappearance from sections where formerl)' they were quite plentiful.
He stated that Finns mitis was at one time abundant in this region, and extended northward into New England ; but that it was believed now to have entirely disappeared from its northern localities, and it was thought by some persons to have disappeared from New Jersey also ; he had, however, detected one tree near Gloucester City tlie past summer, and had recently found on a high edge of ground near Moorestown a strip of woodland, which contained a targe number of trees, nearly all of which were from eighty to one hundred feet in height, and eighteen inches or more in diameter at the base ; a few trees of the same species were growing in an adjoining field, where, the owner of the land informed him, grain had been harvested in the early part of the present century, showing the growth of wood to have been very rapid.
On examining these trees he found evidence of a periodicity in their fruiting ; it being well known that the species of pines in this section require two years to perfect their fruit.
This year a considerable number of cones had set on the branches, but those which formed last year, and were now full grown, were very few indeed, and the mass of cones which were first noticed were chiefly those which matured last year or before, and had long since opened and discharged all of their seed.
As is well understood among farmers and nurserymen, apple-trees do not produce abundantly ever}' year, but seem to have periods of great fruitfulness.
He thought a similar condition existed in Finns mitis, which might be ottered as one reason for its gradual disappearance, it being evident in view of the doctrine of "the survival of the fittest" that a tree which formed fruit once in two years, which fruit required two years to come to maturity, could not maintain a position as if the conditions were otherwise.
Should any of the occurrences of early or late frosts, severe drought, an extreme degree of rain-fall, prevail on the fruit-bearing years, which would not be an unusual thing, it is apparent that the chances of perpetuating its kind would be lessened in a corresponding degree.
As evidence of these conditions having to some extent existed in the past he found that but very few of the seeds which have been perfected had germinated so as to produce young trees ; the greater part of the trees now standing appeared to be on the decline, and when they are gone there is but little to build a hope on for a succession of the same species.
Circum^jjection of Ants.
— Professor Leidy remarked that, a numl)er of years ago, he had been led to an observation on the little red ant, sometimes a great pest to our dwellings, which would indicate a ready disposition to become circumspect.
When he purchased his present residence, while it was undergoing some repairs, he noticed a fragment of bread, left by a workman in one of the second-story rooms, swarming with ants.
Apprehending that the house was seriously infested, to ascertain whetlier it was so he placed a piece of sweet cake in ever}'^ room from the cellar to the attic.
At noon every piece was found covered with ants.
Having l)rovided a cup of turpentine oil, each piece was picked up with forceps and tlie ants tapped into the oil.
The cake was replaced, and in the evening Avas again found covered with ants.
The same j)rocess was gone through the following two days, morning, noon, and night.
The third day tlic number of ants had greatly diminished, and on the fourth there were none.
He at lirst supposed the ants had all been destro^yed, but in the attic he observed a few feasting on some dead house flies, which led him to suspect that the remaining ants had become suspicious of the sweet cake.
He accordingly distributed through the house pieces of bacon, which were afterwards found swarming with ants.
This was repeated with the same result for several days, wlien, in like manner with the cake, the ants linally censed to visit the bacon.
Pieces of ciieese were next tried, witii the same results; but with an undoubted thinning in the multitude of ants.
When the cheese proved no longer attractive, recollecting the feast on dead flies in the attic, dead grasshoppers were supplied from the garden.
These, again, proved too much for the ants; and, after a few days' trial, neither grasshoppers nor anything else attracted them ; they appear to have been thorouglily exterminated, nor has the house since been infested with them.
December 11.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-six members present.
December 18.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-nine members present.
The death of John McAllister, Jr., was announced.
A Dog with Suj^ernumerary Toes.
— Mr. Ryder remarked that he had recently seen a dog with five toes on l)()th iiind feet, but upon a careful examination it was found that the metattnsals of the extra inner toes were entirely absent, there being no ap[)arent vestige of a nietapodial ossification in the pouch of skin that supported the distal ungual bone with its nail and that connected these with the tarsus.
They seemed to hang rather loosely, and to be rather in the Avay than of any use.
In the absence of metatarsals, and indeed of all appearance of ossifications, except the ungual ones, they differed from somewhat similar abnormal conformations of feet in dogs, figured in PeBlainville's Osleographie^ where one is represented with six toes, there being two extra inner ones.
Bfiizopods in an Apple-tree — .Professor Leidy remarked that, a couple of weeks ago, at Swarthmore, while waiting for the railway train to return home, his attention was attracted to a large appletree which, shortly before, had been prostrated by a storm.
In the fork of the trunk there was a bunch of moss which he collected and took home.
On washing the moss and examining the water, be was not a little surprised to find in it many rhizopods.
Of these, one was Difflitgia cassis^ and was abundant.
Another was DifPugia gJohulariK, few in number.
The others were lYivema aci)iui<, Eugbjpha alveolala^ and Eiighjpha hmnnea.
The position of these animals, in the moss on the tree, was about eight feet from the around.
December 25.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Fifty-five members present.
The following reports were read and referred to tiie Publication Committee : —
