STIBIANITE A NEW MINERAL.
BY E. iOLDSMITII.
In tlie Academy's collection I noticed a mineral without a name but having on its label the words  Victoria Australia.
On inquirky I received the information from the Curator in charge that said specimen had been presented by the Australian Centennial Commission.
The mineral is massive having the general aspect of a piece of rough feldspar.
It is somewhat porous and occasionally a shining face of a crystal is observed in the mass.
The color is reddishyellow but not ver uniform.
In powder it is pale yellow  its lustre is dull.
Hardness  5.
Specific gravity  3.6686.
Blowpipe reactions On coal with carb.
of soda it affords antimony ar white incrustation and on the removal of the flame the peculiar ascending cloud.
Phosphorsalt dissolves it without an' coloration in the oxidizing and reducing flame.
Heated in a tube closed at one end it affords some water.
Hydrochloric acid aqua rcgia caustic potassa and sulphide of ammonium dissolve the antimony compound but not the gangue.
The solution of the substance in caustic potassa indicated on the addition of a solution of nitrate of silver the absence of antimonious acid.
A solution of sulphate of copper shows on the other hand the presence of antimonic acid.
The solution formed in hydiochloric acid afforded on tlie addition of iodide of potassium a strong liberation of iodine.
All these reactions are proofs that the antimonj' is in its highest state of oxidation  that is to say the mineral contains only antimonic acid  SbO Quantitative analysis 0.G227 grm.
lost on heating the substance below a red heat 0.0287 gram.
 4.60 per cent of water.
Mr W. H. Dougherty determined the water as 4.46 per cent.
He also ascertained the amount of gangue to be 13.55   and the antimonic acid from SbO to be 81.21   99.22  It is evident from these ascertained values that the purity of the mineral is not more than 85.67 per cent. and on recomputing this value to hundred will give for SbO  94.79 per cent contains  23.40.
HO  5.21     4.62.
The oxygen ratios are 4.
G2  23.40  1  5.06 from which the formula SbOHO is derived.
It is generally believed and probabl with good reason that those oxides of antimony were derived from stibuite which may also be the case in this instance as a small patch of stibuite was noticed on the specimen examined.
STAFFELLITE FROM PIKE'S PEAK COL. BV E. itiLDSMlTII.
On a specimen of the wellknown Amazon stone from Tike's Teak an incrustation from 4 to G millimetres thick was shown for inspection by Mr.
Foot to the members of the Mineralogical Section.
It was given to me for determination and the results are as follows  On the npper surface it appears rather flatly mammillary massive chalcedony or agatelike.
If broken with the hammer the fresh fracture has a silky lustre due to a microcrystalline structure which is clearly seen if a thin splinter of it is placed beneath the microscope having mounted an objective of 1 inches.
The fracture which is somewhat splintery but smooth has a pale oray color on the upper surface where the mineral had been exposed the color appears leekgreen and is rough to the touch.
Hardness  3.5 SpeciOc gravity  2.959.
Blowpipe reactions in the forceps it swells up at first then decrepitates the color of the flame is orangeyellow.
Hydrochloric acid dissolves it with slight effervescence of carbonic acid gas to a perfectly clear solution.
In the solution was found lime and phosphoric acid and also some soda.
The quantitative analysis was performed on 0.500 gram of substance.
I obtained 0.6405 gram of sulphate of lime anhydrous  52.74 per cent of lime.
Also 0.317 gram of pyrophosphate of magnesia  40.55 per cent of phosphoric acid  finally 0.0335 gram of anhydrous sulphate of soda  2.92 per cent of caustic soda.
A sample of the powdered mineral was heated from 230 to 240 F. without losing any weight.
The amount of carbonic acid was calculated to saturate the surplus lime and also the soda.
The surplus lime  4.77 per cent. requires 3.
74 per cent.
c. To the soda  2.92   '' 2.07   C. From these considerations it would seem probable that the composition of the Staffellite from Pike's Peak like the one described b' Stein in German' do not differ much from each other.
Putting the analj'tical results together it reads 3 Ca 88.52 per cent.
Mol.
0.571 or 6.
Ca C 8.51    0.170 or 2.
Na C 4.99    0.094 or 1.
From the ratios the following formula may be deducted 6  3Ca P 2 CaC NaC  1083.
This requires 3 Ca P  85.87 per cent.
Ca C 9.23   Na C 4.89   April 16.
The Presuleut Dr. Rusciienbeuger in the chair.
Tvent3one persons present.
The death of Michel Charles Durieu de Maisonneuve a Correspondent was announced.
On the Relation of Amoeba quadrilineata and Amoeba verrucosa.
 Prof. IjEIDY stated that the small but characteristic ama'boid form orifinaliy described by Mr. Carter An.
Mag.
Xat.
Jlist. 1856 243 as Amceba Kadrilineata Uom specimens IVnind in Bombay he had repeatedly observed fnjm many ositions in our vicinity.
In association with it lie had noticed tlie singularly sluggish Amrcba verrucosa and also many intermediate forms which led iiim to the belief tliat the former was the Aoung of the latter.
Subsequenth in reviewing the literature of the matter he had been gratified to learn that Mr. Carter had arrived at the same result from a ditferent point of view.
In investigating the history of Amoeba verrucosa he found that its germs yielded young of the character he had previously described as Amoeba quadrilineata An.
Mag.
Xat.
Hist. 1857 37.
The forms described by Perty as Amoeba natans Kennt.
kleinst.
Lebensformen 1852 188 by Greeff as Amceba teri'icola Arch.
Mik.
Anat. 1866 299 and b' Fromentel as Thecamceba quadripnrtita Etudes Microzoaires 346 he suspected to be the same as Amoeba verrucosa.
April 23.
Dr. R. S. Kenderdine iif the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
Prehidoric Remains.
 Joseph Willcox called attention to portions of the jaws of some Indians a stone axe and a copper plate that were found recentl' bv liim and Dr. Geo.
H. Ambrose in an Indian mound in the Gulf Hammock twenty miles southeast of Cedar Key in Florida.
This mound made with sand was about fort' feet in diameter at the base and ten or twelve feet high.
They found five Indian skeletons.
The teeth in one of the jaws on the table evidentl' of an old individual indicated a remarkable freedom from decay.
The stone axe is finished in a very smooth and skilful manner and is made from a stone that is not found within one hundred and fifty miles of the mound.
The copper plate is embossed and is too highly ornamented to suppose that it was made by an Indian.
Mr. J. W. Foster in his work on the prehistoric races of the United States writes that  a wide gap exists in connecting the historyof the raouudbuilders with the present race of Indians.
There is a large Indian mound among tlie mountains in Macon Count North Carolina and the Cherokee Indians now living in that vicinit say that they have no tradition in reference to its construction.
Perhaps this copper plate might be looked upon as a connecting link between the moundbuiklers and the early white settlers in this country as it was found in conjunction with the skeletons and the stone axe.
Note on Corundum.
 Mr. Willcox said that the corundum crystals presented by him were found at a locality in Laurens County South Carolina that had never been described.
He lately visited the place.
The corundum is found in a matrix of mica slae which is considered a new rock for bearing corundum.
Commencing at a point threequarters of a mile east of Laurens Court House the corundum is found at several places in a district about three miles long and onehalf mile wide in a direction nearly northeast.
As is the case all through the Soutliern States the rocks in Laurens County are so deejjly covered with soil that it is difficult to trace them.
April 30.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twent3'eight members present.
A paper entitled Elements of the Sidereal System by Jacob Ennis was presented for publication.
The Bridging ConvoJutiona in the Primates.
 Dr. A. J. Parker remarked that the plis de passage of Gratiolet the annectant bridging or transition convolutions of the English anatomists are small and in man cases concealed convolutions passing from the occipital to the temporal and parietal lobes.
Gratiolet attached great importance to these pJis de passage as points of diagnosis in different brains.
He distinguished altogether six of tliese transition convolutions four external and two internal.
Tlie two internal connect according to him that portion of the occipital lobe known as the cuneus with the mesial portion of the brain direct'
in front of the parietooccipital fissure the socalled lobulus praecuneus of most authors.
He called these respective
' the superior and inferior internal jyli de passage.
The four external plis de fjassage pass from the lateral portion of tlie occipital lobe to join the convolutions of the parietal and temporal lobes.
He named these the first or superior external pli de passage denxieme troixieme et quatrieme pli de passage externe.
Tlie inferior inlermil pli de passage passes from the apex of the cuneiis forward ami joins the convolution rnnning forwanl into tlie frontal lole. Attention was called to this convlntion in a revions coinaiunicalion on the convolutions of the negro hrain  but it might lie well to refer to it again in this connection.
It is this convolution which in the Simians separates the mesial portion of the parietooccipital from tlie calcarine fissure.
The presence of this convolution was considered as a characteristic of the Simian brain but Huxley pointed out its absence in the brjiin of Aides paniscKs.
BisclioQ' states however that it is jresent in Alelrs only pushed down and concealed in the depths of the parietooccipital fissure.
In the brain of Ateles uler Dr. Parker had found this convolution as well developed as in any of the Simian brains.
Formerly it was considered that this convolution was absent in the brain of man bnt lischoff asserts that it is always lrcsent sunk in the depths of the parietooccipital fissure and Ecker describes it under the name of the gyrus cunei.
He had always been able to distinguish it in the human brain  and especially welldeveloped as previously pointed out in the brain of the negro.
The superior internal pli de passage lies just aliove the inferior internal and connects also the occipital lobe with the lolndus prjxicuneus.
Bischoff has asserted Die Grosshirnwindungcn des Menschen etc. Abhand.
der k. bair.
Akademie der Wissenchaften 1868 that the superior external and the superior internal plis de passage are identical.
Ecker opposing liischoti's interpretation remarks note p. 75 Cerebral Convolutions of Man as follows Jiischoff is of the opinion that this convolution he is sfieaking of the superior internal pli de passage is homologous with the first outer transition convolution of Gratiolet our gyrus occipitalis primns and hence is wanting where the latter is developed and vice versa.
I regret to be obliged to oppose this view  not only do we find as I will more particularly' describe in another place in the brain of various apes Cercopilhecus cynocejhalus etc.
both convolutions most clearly developed together but we also not infrequently find in man a convolution which arises at the posterior extremity of the prtecuneus with the gyrus occipitalis primus runs backward in an arch convex inward and downward while the former gyrus occipitalis primus as is known makes an arch outward.
In the cuneus the two convolutions again coalesce.
This convolution is regularly sunk into the depths of the fissure parietooccipitalis and onl becomes visible on pulling apart the orders of this fissure  but sometimes it also comes to the surface and then causes a very unusual appearance at this part of the cerebral surface.
This disagreement between the observations of Bischoff and Ecker in regard to these convolutions is due to the fact that in some Simian brains two convolutions are present as described by Eeker wliilst in other brains only one can be distinguished.
Thus in one specimen of the brain oi Macacus 
emesr2i but a single convolution was present passing from the lower part of the IoIdulus ir8ecuneus backwards to join the occipital lobe.
This convolution was in shape like the letter S the anterior arch being directed downwards and inwards the posterior arch upwards and outAvards.
The anterior portion of this convolution evidently corresponds to the superior internal pli de passage  whilst the posterior arch corresjjonds to the convolution whicli Ecker terms the g3'rus occipitalis primus and wliich Gratiolet and other writers have also separately designated under the name of the superior external pli de passage the superior annectant bridging connecting convolution of the Englisli anatomists Huxle' Turner Rolleston and Marshall.
He had found the same condition of things in several other brains specimens of 3Iacacis cynomolgos Gercopithecus callitrichus and in Cebus apella.
In most brains however two convolutions are to be found an anterior inwardly arched and a posterior outwardly arched corresponding as had been already stated with the anterior and posterior portions of what is in some brains a distinct single and separate convolution.
Witli regard to the development and relations of the superior externul pli de passage considerable confusion exists.
This is the convolution which lying concealed in most of the Simians under that portion of the occipital lobe known as the operculum develops in the higher Apes in Man and Ateles upwards and divides the fissura perpendicularis into two parts.
Until recentl' only one of these divisions the parietooccipital fissure has been recognized.
Thus Marsliall following Gratiolet in describing tlie brain of a Bushwoman calls the lateral portion of the parietooccipital fissure the external perpendicular fissure thus identifying tliis with tlie external perpendicular of the Simian brain.
This identification is incorrect or at least this lateral portion of the parietooccipital can be considered as corresponding to only a small portion of tlie external perpendicular fissure.
Tiie fissure which represents the external perpendicular is puslied backwards bthe development of this convolution and is found situated aiparently on the occipital lobe and continuous with the interparietal fissure.
Pansch appears to be the first who gave a correct description and comparison of this portion of tlie human brain and he has since been followed by Ecker.
Bischofl' identifies the internal perpendicular correctl' but he introduces fresh confusion.
In the foetus he recognizes the presence of the external perpendicular fissure but states that it disappears in the eighth month.
This however is by no means the case.
In five fcctal brains at the end of the eighth Dr. Parker had found this fissure distinct and welldeveloped and in all adult brains which he had studied h
had found it well marked.
lu the brain of the foetus at the end of the eighth month this coiivoliil ion presented almost the same appearanee as in the brain of tlie O rani according to tlie lignre given by liischod.
Tiiis convohition.
the snperior external pli li jiasiafje varies as to its extent of development in different individuals.
In the lrain of tlie negro he had found it much simpler than in the white.
I'ansch and KcUer are the only writers who recognize in the human brain the fissure corresponding to the external perpendicular of the Simian.
Pansch calls it fissura occipitalis externa and Packer fissura occipitalis transversus.
The remaining bridging convolutions present nothing of importance.
The second lies generally concealed under the operculum.
The third passes forward from the apex of the occipital lobe into the second temporal convolution.
Tlie fourth lies below this and passes into the third temporal convolution.
In identifying and limiting these convolutions in the human brain much confusion has arisen and ha agreed entirely with Ecker tiiat although they may have some significance in the brain of the Aicstliey have no special significance in the brain of Man and should not therefore receive separate and distinct names.
In the human brain they appear merely as the posterior portions of convolutions which extend into the temporal and parietal lobes and connect these with the occipital lobe.
Dr. Jos.
W. Anderson Walter Wood and W. W. Frazier were elected members.
The following paper was ordered to be printed  PROC.
A. N. 8.
PHILA.
1878.
PL I tfo .
m  '.' ON A NEW SPECIES OF SPONGE.
 BY ALPHEUS HYATT.
Aplysina pedicellata Hyatt.
Plate 1.
This species is founded upon three specimens two in the collection of the Academy and one in the collection of the Boston Society of Natural Historj'.
Locality is unknown but probably East Indies.
The forms are all fistular and from a foot to sixteen inches long though not more than one and oneeighth inch in diameter.
The basal portion is almost solid and is composed of huge vertical fibres connected b' veiy short horizontal branches the mesh being very small.
The walls of the tubes are built up out of a thin network of fibres of two kinds.
The inner part is a sheet of fibre which surrounds the tube itself the outer part is composed of palmate extensions of the inner sheet which anastomose with each other in every direction.
In this way they give a cellular or open frilllike aspect to the walls since the cells or frills open more widely or flare outwaixlly. The mesh in most parts has a quadragonal form but not infrequently has also the usual pentagonal or hexagonal outline common in most species of Aplysina.
The fibres are hollow but this is much larger in the vertical or primary fibres than in the secondary or horizontal filres.
The hollows of the primary fibres are universally filled with debris but the cavities ill the secondary fibres are entirely free from foreign matter.
Another very curious peculiarity is observable in the structure of the fibres.
The central core of debris in the primary fibres is surrounded by a cement apparently of keratode.
This may be seen where the secondary fibres branch off from'the primary as a continuous layer running across the open face of the secondary fibre.
The size of the cavity in the primary appears to be dependent upon the quantity of the debris in the primary fibres since in one preparation the cavity of the primary fibres became as small as in ' This characteristic is not shown in the figures which give the walls a soHd aspect they do not naturally possess.
the Kccoiidary rilie.s wlicni.
'ver the core of U'li'is failed in contin uity.
Tlie diameter of this hollow varies iiorniallfrom onehalf to oneeighth of the whole diameter.
These facts lead to the conclnsion that if this species lived where the water contained no sediment we shonld find the fibres with an exceeding small central cavity.
The concentric coats of kcratode comprising the filre are of two kinds as is usual tiiose which are primarily formed by the derm and those nubsequently depositeil b' the mesoderm the former being lighter colored and occupying the interior and the latter in the specimens examined very dark colored and with an exceedingh' fibrous aspect.
This thickening of the walls of the fibre by mesodermic deposits and the small size of the central cavit' are similar to the characteristics of Verongia to which also the form of the fibre rounded rather than flattened approximates.
This species therefore presents a mingling of some of the characteristics of Verongia and Aphsina and also possesses a curious resemblance to the true Spongiaj in the habit of taking debris into the core of the fibre.
This mingling of characteristics led me at first to the supposition that it was a new genus.
Upon reflection however I do not think that these characteristics justify its separation from the genus Aplysina.
The peculiar arrangement of the fibres in sheets and their resemblance in structure far outweigh all other characteristics and give a peculiar aspect to the surface which I believe is confined to the members of the genus Aphsina.
It is however a very remarkable species and this justifies its publication in spite of the uncertainty about the locality.
May Y.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtysix persons present.
A paper entitled  Descriptions of New Species of American Bees by E.T.
Cresson was presented for publication.
The death of Robert Frazer a member was announced.
On Lepidurus Gouesii Pack.
 Dr. A. S. Packard placed on record the occurrence of Lepidurus Couesii in northern Utah.
The species had not before been found south of northern Montana near the Milk River.
The determination was based upon a specimen of a female with eggs sent to him b the Academy for examination.
The President read the following   lOG PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACAliEMY OF 187S.
