NOTE ON THE PROBABLE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF A SPIDER BY THE TRADE WINDS.
By Rev.
Henry C, McCook.
Wliilc cxfimining and clas.sif3iiig the collection of spiders in llie Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladelphia, I discovered a miinber of specimens of the large laterigrade Sarotes venaloriua^ Linn., from various localities, as represented upon the accompanying tal)les and chart (Fig.
1).
Starting with tlie specimens in my private collection, the line of distribution was traced from Santa Cruz, Virgin Isles, to Cuba, to Florida, across Central America, Yucatan and Mexico, across the Pacific Ocean by way of Sandwich Islands, Japan, and Loo-Choo Islands, and thence across the continents of Asia and Africa to Liberia.
The line thus indicated extends from the extreme eastern limit of Nortli America to the extreme western coast of Africa, tiius girdling the globe, with the exception of 54° of longitude.
This excepted area expresses substantially the width of the Atlantic Ocean.
It occurred to me when this fact became a|)parent, that this line of distribution is within the belt of the Xorth Trade Winds; and further, that there might be some connection between the two facts and the fact that the laterigrade spiders, to which group this animal belongs, are among those which are most addicted, in the earlier stages of growth, to the interesting lial)it of migrating from point to point.
This is done b}' means of fine threads, emitted from the spinnerets in sufBcient bulk to OA'crcome the .
'Ji)ecific gravity of the body.
In other words, they belong to the ballooning species.'
The suggestion which thus arose led me to refer to a competent authority as to the general course and limits of the Xorth Trades.
These are roughly indicated in tlie chart.
Fig.
1, by the two upper lines of arrows, marked (at the ends) A A and B B.
In the Atlantic Ocean the Xorth Trade Winds prevail between latitude 9° X. and 30*^ X.; in the Pacific between 9° X^.
and 26" X.
We now may turn to the chart in which the following geographical points (shown by a dot and figures) are represented by our spider.
The specimens which have been examined, in the ' For some observations of this habit, in full, see an article, by the writer, in Proceedings of the Academy of Nat.
Sci., Philadelphia, 1877, p. 308.
K Academ}' and 1113own collections, whose habitats are personally known, are marked bj' an asterisk (*).
The species is credited to the other localities named on the authorities given therewith.
A comparison of this table with the chart will at once show that the dotted lines in the latter, which indicate the limits of the geographical belt over which (so far as the specimens in hand and described can determine) Sa^'otes venaforius is distributed, correspond, with remarkable general exactitude, with the belt over which the Xortli Trades blow.
It is not, therefore, an improbable conjecture that this distribution has been accomplished by means of those winds and the hal)it of aerial flight above referred to.
It is, of course, supposable that commerce, following largely the same belt, maj' have originated or aided this distribution.
But it is hardly necessary to resort to this hypothesis, when there is one quite as probable, and wholl}' natural, and operative before the general diffusion of inter-continental communication by ships.
This last-named condition the facts in the historyof the spider seem to require.
Some of these facts are, (1) the early discover^' of the species as alreadj^ widely distributed; (2) its presence at so many different insular points nearh' or altogether contemporaneous with their first A'isits b}commercial nations ; (3) the existence of the species or its close allies among the fauna of the tropical interiors of continents far dih^tant from coast lines; (4) and finalh' the variations, chief!}'
in color, which have been observed, and which would seem to require for their development a longer period than that which has transpired since the commencement of commercial commu-.
nication with the localities in which the variations have been wrought.
While one ma}^ not conclude with absolute certainty from these facts, the}' certainl}warrant the theory that the Huntsman (venatoy^ius) spider has become cosmopolitan b}* the action of nature independent of the aid of man.
I was so impressed by the above chain of facts, and so confident of the inference therefrom, that I ventured to predict that corresponding results would follow a comparison of specimens collected from all other quarters; that is to say, the}' would be found to lie within the belt of the JJorth or South Trade Winds.
Tiie only specimens at hand were those cited above, and from Zululand and Surinam.
But I was enabled to pursue the matter'fur10 138 PROCEEOINCiS OF THE ACAltEMY OF [1878.
1878.]
139 tlier b_y reference to the locations of various spec'mens given in the descriptions of a number of natura'ists.
I was greatly aided in this by references kindl^^ sent me by Mr. Wm.
Holden.
Some of the localities thus obtained have been tabulated above, and others were found to correspond with the points represented by specimens examined.
So far then the conjecture was verified.
Tlie two lower arrow lines in the chart, C C and D Z), give a general view of the course and limits of the South Trades, which prevail in the Atlantic Ocean between latitude 4° N. and 22° S., and in the Pacific between latitude 4° N. and 23i° S.' It is of course understood that these limits are not stationar}^, but follow the sun, moving northward from January to June, and southward from July to December; an oscillation which is also indicated in the zone of distribution.
They are, however, substantial!
}as above given, and may be compared with the following table, which shows the southern geographical distribution of this species accordinijr to the authorities cited therein.
Table of Distribution North of the Equator.
Locality.
Latitude.
Loni,'itude (Gr.).
Authority.
1.
Palmyra Island, 60 N. 1630 W. * 3.
Pelew Islands, 70_80 N. 1340 E. L. Koch.
3.
Loo-Clioo Islands, 250-290 IT.
1280 E. *■ 4.
Japan, 30O-40O N. 130o_i40OE.
■X5.
Nicobar Islands, 60-100 N. 963-97E. Bock.
6 Tranquel)ar, India, 120N.
8OOE.
Fabricius.
7.
Liberia, Africa, 50-90 N. 100 W. * 8.
Senegal, Africa, 17C' N. I60 w. Walckenaer.
9.
Martinique, N. America, ir,o X.
6I0 w. 10.
Santa Cruz, I80 N. 65° W. * 11.
Jamaica, I80K 770 w. Walckenaer.
12 Cuba, 200-230 N. 740_850 W. * 13.
Florida, 8O0 N. 8I0 w. * 14.
Yucatan, 200 N. 820-910 W. * 15.
!Mcxico, Jalapa, 200 N. 970 W. * 16.
Calilbrnia, ?
1090-1170 W. L. Koch.
17.
Oahu, Sand.
Islands, 200 N. I550-I6OO w. * ' An error appears in the chart in the location of the southern limit of the South Trades.
The arrow line should not run directly westward from Valparaiso, Chili (15), but from a point IQo above it, passing just south of Friendly Isles (19).
140 [187S.
Table 0/ Disb'ibidion Sonlli of Ihe Equator.
Lociility.
LttlKude.
Longitude (Or.).
Autli'irily.
1.
Viti Levu, Fcjce Ishiiuls, IC^S.
180O \V.
L. Kocli.
2.
New Calcdoniii, 300-2203.
1 030-1 C20 E. " 3.
Sidney, Auslriiliu, :5:5o s. 1500 E. Bock.
4.
Auslraliii, 110-300 s. 1050-1150 E. L. Koch.
5.
Sinncapore, 20 N. 1040 E. Walck.
6.
Zanzibar, Africa, S. 400 E. Gerstaecker.
7.
S. E. Equalorial Africa, 100-200 S.(?)
300-500 E. Blackwall.
8.
^Mauritius, 200 s. 5fio E. AValckenaer.
9.
Madagascar, 80-2GO S. 430-500 E. Vinson.
10.
Zulu-land, 200 s. 280E.
* « 11.
Pernambuco, 70 S370 w. 12.
Brazil, 370-700 \v.
Simon, AValck.
13.
Rio Janeiro, 230 s. 50O W. Walck.
14.
Surinam, CO N. 550 AV.
* 15.
Valparaiso, Chili, 330 s. 700 w. L. Koch.
16.
Tahiti, Huaheine, Soc.
Is, .
I80S. '
150O W. L. Koch.
17.
Rarotonga, Cooli's Isls.
220 s. 1020 w. ( 1 18.
Upolu, >Javigator Is.
13iO-i4p s. 16SO-1730 W. ( ( 19.
Tongatabn, Friendly Is.
200 s. 1 720-1 7GO W. 1 i This table shows a distribution corresponding witli the limits of the South Trades, with, in three oases, viz., Sidney (3), Surinam (14), and Valparaiso (15), a slight oscillation in accord with a fact above stated.
Thus was entirely' fulfilled the expectation with which I entered upon its preparation.
It might with equal confidence be predicted that Saroles venatoriua maj' be found distributed throughout the South Pacific Islands within the same general belt; moreover, that it ma3M)e fonnd among the fauna of the chain of small islands between the Sandwich Islands and Asia, viz., Philadelphia, Drake and Massachusetts Islands, Anson and ^Magellan Archipelagoes; also of the Cape Verde and St. Ileh'na Islands, off the west coast of Africa.
These have all doubtless been stations in the line of migration, the latter across the Atlantic Ocean as the Antilles have been ; the former across the Pacific, as the Sandwich Islands, Loo-Choo Island, and Japan have been, and as Mauritius and Madagascar Islands have been across the Indian Ocean.
Perhaps a more diligent search might even now prove that this cosmopolitan species has alread}' been collected at some of the above points.^ ' It will be observed that the tables show that the missing points in the South Pacific Islands have been actually bridged over.
After the preseutaThere seems nothing improbable in the theory suggested to explain the series of facts here presented.
There are not, indeed, man}' recorded observations of the distances to which spiders are carried out to sea in their aeronautic fliglits.
But before a strong, steady wind, or in cases of storms, it is possible that the greatest distances which appear in the tables could be overcome.
An observation of Mr. Darwin is the only one in point to which 1 can refer.^ At the distance of sixty miles from land, while the Beagle was sailing before a steady, light breeze, the rigging was covered with vast numbers of small spiders with their webs.
The little spider, when first coming in contact with the rigging, was always seated upon a single thread.
While watching some that were suspended by this filament, tlie slighest breath of air was found to bear them out of sight.
I have observed similar single-threaded " balloons" sailing at a considerable height above the surface of the earth, and know no reason why, with a favorable breeze, they might not have been carried hundreds of miles.
That the}* were carried at least sixty miles, as Mr. Darwin's testimony shows, and that before a light breeze, gives great probability to such a conjecture.
It is to be noted, moreover, that the spiders arrested by the Beagle's rigging were evidently moving on when so stopped, and some of them when arrested soon resumed their flight across the main.
The purpose in nattire of such a remarkaltle habit as these well-known facts exhibit is, doubtless, to secure the distribution of species throughout wide regions.
The buoyant filament of spider-gossamer serves the tiny arachnid the same good office that is rendered the thistle-seed b}' the starry ra^'s of down surrounding it.
It ma}' not be without interest, and ma}', perhaps, have some bearing upon the above theory of distribution, to remark that the genus (or a closely allied genus) to which Sarotes venatoriua betion of this communication as above, and the preparation of the chart, 1 received from Mr. Wm.
Holden, of Marietta, Ohio, a number of references from Koch's descriptions of Austrahan spiders, to which I did not have access, which enabled me to verify in this particular also the prediction made.
The tables and chart have been corrected in accordance with the facts thus kindly supplied, but the above paragraphs have been permitted to stand as they were originally written and communicated to the AcadeYiij'. '
Voyage of the Beagle, vol.
iii.
p. 187. lollies is probal)lv one of the oldent known forms of the spider fauna.
Thorell' phiccs the now existiiiij <^{i\nxH lieleropoda (Ocypete, Kocli, Ox;/})<'(<', Menge), from which Saroles has been divided, amf)ng those whicli are represented in the amljer spiders.
Tliis amber is a fossil vegetable resin, which is met witli in various brown-coal strata, and is copiously thrown by the waves on llie southern coasts of the IJaltic, esjjocially the coast of Prussia and the Kurische Ilaaff.
Tliis anil)er belongs to the tertiary (" oligocene") period, and in it numerous spiders are found, generally well preserved.
How far any supposed contiguity or closer approach of continents now separated might have facilitated or occasioned the world-round distril)ution of (Mir Huntsman spider, is a point upon which geologists may more properly express an opinion.
The question, what variation of species, if any, occurs in the course of this distribution, is of great interest.
The specimens examined by rae show no variations which may not lie accounted for by diflerences in age, or which may not come within the range of those ordinary natural differences which all animals more or less exhibit.
Most of the s))ecimens, however, had been so long in alcohol as to obliterate any differences in color which might have existed.
The normal color is a uniform tawny j'ellow, varied upon the ce[)halothorax by a circular patch of blackish or blackish-brown color covering nearly two-thirds of the space; and, further, by a white or whitish marginal band quite or nearly girdling the same.
In some of the specimens this circular patch seems to have been more or less of a brownish color.
The eminent naturalist Gerstaeckerspeaks of this species as distributed over a large part of Africa, Asia, and South America.
Specimens were examined by him from Dafeta, Monjbas, and Zanzibar.
In these there was some variation in tiie coloration of the maxillary palpi : on the one hand, from a light rust-color to brownish-red and i)itcii-brown ; on the other hand, to a more or less sharp division or limitation of the light yellow color of the anterior and posterior borders of the cephalothorax.
There was also a browning of tlie region about the eyes.
Gerstaecker ver\' justly' observes that this indicates that on this sort of differences not as many ' European Spiders, p. 231, Nov. Ada.
Reg.
Soc.
Sci.
Upsal.
1870.
I have not the work of Koch and Berendt, to which Thorell refers.
2 Von der Decken's Travels in East Africa, III.
ii.
p. 482.
1878.]
143 specific characters can be established as upon the more stable differences in the relative size of the ej'es and legs.
A female, closely resembling the male which is here figured, was sent to me from Vera Cruz (Virgin Isles) by Mr. F. G. Sherman.
It was taken in or near the house by one of the colored servants, who (says Mr. S.) handle the spiders readily and with impunit3\ The cocoon^ Fig.
2, C, was inclosed in the box.
It is of a pink color; is drawn about natural size, being over threefourths of an inch in diameter.
Cocoons of the same description were sent me by Mr. Jno.
F. Folsom from Cul)a, together with a large number of young spiderlings.
These had evidently escaped from the cocoon, after immersion in the spirits.
They are threethirty seconds of an inch long; whitish color, with reddish-brown annuli or regular markings upon the legs, and two rows of dots of the same color on each side of the medial line of the abdomen.
Fig.
2.
Saro'es venat 'Hux (natural size).
C. Cocoou.
E. Eyes, of S. truncus.
C.TIi.
Outline of cephalotliorax The male, Fig.
2, was received from Archibald Mclntyre, Esq., who brought it from Florida in the winter of 1874-75.
It was observed for the space of five or six weeks hanging listlessly to the wall in the angle of the ceiling.
It then moulted, moved, and was captured.
The length of bod^^ is about three-quarters pf an inch ; the abdomen being somewhat shrivelled, its length is somewhat uncertain.
One of the 4th pair of legs is shorter, imperfect, showing that tlie original leg had been lost in combat or b}' some accident, and that a new leg had thus far been restored by nature.
The fact tliat lioth these specimens — the only ones in hand of whose hal)its I have any account — were found in the house would seem to indicate a fondness for sucii domicile, that might make more easy the distril)ution of this species l)y means of sJiips.
Moreover, Latreille records,' as a fact communicated to him, that in cerlain parts of tiie troi)ical regions of tlie New World, this animal, instead of being looked upon witii aversion, as are the most of its order, is regarded with positive pleasure by proprietors of homes, on account of the service rendered in the destruction of cockroaches and other noxious insects.
For this purpose the spider is not only preserved, but is introduced witiiin tlie house.
Mr. Holden has information of the same fact in connection with this or an allied species in the Sandwich Islands.
It may be said that the general habit of the entire group of laterigrades is, however, quite different from that of house-spiders.
They chiefly inhabit trees and shrubbery, upon the leaves or bark of which they lie in wait and seize their prey as from ambush.
The spider is probably rare, at least not abundant, in the United States.
It has frequentl}^ been described in European journals ; but, as it has a place among our spider fauna, a description is herewith appended, together with a synou^micon of the most important references.
ARAXE^.
LATERIGRAD^.
THOMISOID^.
PHILODROMINJE.
Sarotes venatorius (Linn.
), 17C7.
1767.
Aranea venatoria, Linn., Syst.
Nat.
(12 ed.)
I. ii.
p. 1035, No.
33.
1789.
Aranea venatoria, Linn., Syst.
Nat.
(13 ed.)
I. p. 2960, No.
33.
1793.
Aranea regia, Fabr., Entom.
Syst.
II.
p. 408, No.
4.
1801.
Ileteropoda venatoria, Latr., Nouv.
Diet.
d'll.
N. (1st ed.)
XXIV.
p. 135.
180").
Thomims leucosiun, Walck., Tab!, d. Ar.
p. 36, No.
28, pi.
4, fig.
33. '
Nouv.
Dictioiinaire d'Hist.
Nat., ed.
1819, torn.
34, p. 33, art.
Thomue.
1806.
Thomims veiiatoriuit, Latr., Gen. Crust, et Ins.
I. p. 114.
1806.
Thomisus leucosius, Latr., Gen. Crust, et Ins.
I. p. 113.
1810.
Aranea regia, Epit.
Entom.
p. 111.
1829.
Thomisus leucosius, Latr., Cuvier, Regne Anim.
IV.
p. 2o6.
1833.
Sarotes regius, Sund., Conspect.
Araclm.
p. 28.
1836.
Thomisus leucosius, Duges, Regne Anim.
Arachn.
p. 60.
1837.
Olios leucosius, Walck., H. N. d. Ins Apt.
I. p. 566, No.
5.
1842. "
Lucas, H. N. Cr.
Ar.
et Myr.
p. 395, No.
3.
1845.
Ocypete draco, C. Koch, Die Arachn.
XII.
p. 44, f. 983.
1850. "
C. Koch, Uebersicht, V. p. 37.
1851.
Olios leucojus ^leucosius), Bocli, Verh.
z-b.
Ges.
Wien, XI.
p. 389.
1803 " " Vinson, Ar.
Reun.
Maur.
et Mad.
p. 98, No.
3, pi.
ii.
f. 8.
1864. "
" Simon, H. N. d. Araign.
p. 410.
1866. "
" Blkw., Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
3d ser.
XVIII.
p. 457.
1870.
Heteropoda venatoria, Thor., On Europ.
Spid.
p. 178.
1873.
Olios regius, Gerst., in C. von der Deckeu, Reisen in Ost.
Afr.
III.
ii.
p. 482.
1875.
Sarotes regius, Koch, Die Ar.
Austr.
pp.
660, 675, 854, Tab.
56, f. 1,2.
Length of bodj^, five-eighths inch.
Spread of legs, five inches.
Cephalothorax slightly convex, large, broad, broadest through the middle part, rounded on the sides, slightly truncated at the base, verj' little compressed in front.
The caput is but little elevated ; is truncated at the face.
The color of the spider is a uniform tawny, except upon the cephalothorax, where a broad, brownish, and black band flows down about two-thirds the distance from the medial line to the marg-in.
The margin of the cephalothorax is again of a tawny color, the band running around in front, narrowing toward the face, which it crosses just above the articulation of the felces, the color being whitish on the face.
The head and eye-space ai'e touched with black, or are tawny.
At the indentation the blackish band divides by a tawnjline which follows the cephalic juncture around to the face.
The eyes, Fig.
2, E^ are arranged in two rows of four each, the front row l)eing the sliortest.
The two central front eyes are the smallest of all, and are placed upon an elevation narrowing towards the front.
These are nearer to each other tlian are the two posterior middle eyes, from which they are separated b}a space somewhat larger than that which separates tiie front eyes and the margin of the face.
The lateral front eyes are the largest of all.
Viewed from the front they are nearly in a straight line 140 PHOCEEPINns OF THK ACADEMY OP .[1«78.
(subrectii) ; )»iil viewed from nhove they are sliiilitly curved backward.
The hack row of eyes is al)ont eqiiallv (i)erha|)S even less) t'luvt'd liackuaiil.
'I'hey are more nearly e<iual in size, l)nt the hiteial eyes ai'e hirger than tiie middle ones.
A whitisli line below the eyes joins the face with the falces, which articidate nearly upon a |il:ine with tiie face.
They are conical, covered with bristles, raliier lilunt at the end, but cut away upward and toward each other.
They have about six teeth.
Lip is oval, cut squarely at the tip.
Maxilliie are gibbous, lean toward the lip slightly, are rounded at the end, scalloped at the middle of the outoiedge, tipped with thick tooth-like hairs.
Sternum cordate, tawny color, hairy.
Palpus of female (Santa Cruz) long; the joints armed with about five strong, short spines each, the terminal joint ending with a thick brush of bristle-like hairs, imbedded within which is a five-toothed claw.
The pa)i)us of the male has on the outside of the digital joint a black, double-toothed, or notched, horn-like projection.
In the i)alm of the terminal bulb is a black cushion, from or below the end of which projects a pinkish, spine-like organ.
On the end of the radial joint without is a black, corneous projection, curved at the extremit3'.
Feet, order of length, 2.
4.1.
.3, the difference between 4.1. not ver}' marked.
On the upper part of the thigh (femur) are arranged eight black spines, six in pairs along the up()erside; two along the ver^' top, one of these two being in a row with the 2d pair, the other standing alone near the joint of the patella.
Tliis last is shorter by about one-half, and bent more than the others.
A pair of short and slight spines on the sides of the patella.
On the tibia are nine spines, eight arranged in pairs below or on tlie under sides, the last two near the joint of metatarsus being shorter and bent; the remaining spine is between the 1st and 2d pairs, and above.
There are five spines on the metatarsus, three shooting out well together near the joint of the tibia.
The under sides of the tarsus and metatarsus are covered with a thick scoi)ula.
The claws are two — long, strong, curved toward the end, toothed at the base, apparently the inner claw having more teeth, A pad or brush completely underlies the claws.
Abdomen much shrivelled, but evidentlv oval, tawn}-, hairj-, and niarked as nearljas may be as in the figure.
Habitat.
Florida.
Sarotes truncus, n. up.
?
In the collection referred to in the above paper was found one specimen which differs so widelyfrom other individuals in the shape of the cephalothorax that it is probably entitled to be classified as a new species.
The cephalothorax, Fig.
2, C. Th^ is truncated at the base, which is the widest part, being three-eighths of an inch wide, which is also the length of the medial line of the cephalothorax.
The sternum is an almost regular decagon.
The ej'es and other parts correspond generally with those of S. venatortus as described.
The view of the eyes in the figure is from above.
Female.
Japan.
148 niOCKKDlNGS OF THK ACADKMY OF [1878.
Al'UlL 0.
Mr. Geoiu!K AV.
1'kvon, .Jr., in tlio cliair.
Twenty-two i)C'isons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : — "Transition forms in Crinoids, and description of live new species," by Charles "Wachsnuith and Frank Springer. "
On a new Species of Sponge," by Alpheus Ilj-att.
Vegetafive ReYjetUiori of Cerebral Fi.ssti7-e.s Dr. A. J. Parker remarked that in studying the cerebral fissures, as found in the brains of different animals, we find them divided into several groups.
These are called primary, secondarj-, tertiary, etc., according to their constancy and degree of iuiportance.
The primary fissures comprise tiiose iiuidamental, deep, and important clefts, which appear earliest in the development of the embrj'o, and are to be found represented in all brnins where marked fissuration exists.
They correspond in position and bear definite relations with deep and important structures.
The secondary fissures come next in importance.
They appear in the embryo after the primary, and comprise those fissures which give the general character of fissuration to groups of brains.
Tertiary fissures, etc., are the smaller, less important ones which branch off from the primary' and secondary, or mark more or less deepl}' the various sei)arate convolutions formed by the other fissures.
These fissures give the sjiecial character to each brain, and enable us to point it out as belonging to this or that genus or species of animals.
The constanc3' in appearance and position of these fissures follows the same order as given above; that is, the primary are the most constant in appearance and position, the secondary next, whilst the tertiarv, etc., are the most variable; many of the minor branches of this latter group being present or absent, even in the same species of animal.
With reference to the cause, of development of these fissures three views are held.
According to one view, which is the one that has had most currency until within recent years, and which is still supported b}' many, such as Ecker, etc., the fissures of the cerebral cortex are due to mechanical causes entirely-, being produced l)y the cranial contents developing more rapidly thnn the cavity of the skull, the brain folding itself in order to accommodate itself in bulk to the space allowed l)y its rigid bou}' environment.
In this case, therelbre, the fissures represent merely lines of least resistance to the compressing forces, and have no structural significance.
According to the second view, fissures represent lines of letarded growth ; that is, along these lines of tlie cerebral cortex, growth takes place less rapidly than in the surrounding portion, and tliese lines are, therefore, graduall}' converted into deep grooves or fissures.
The third view is a compound of the other two.
According to this, the principal fissures are produced by retarded growth, whilst many of the undulations and minor furrows are produced by compression.
Whichever view we adopt, the question still presents itself, are we to regard each fissure as produced by a distinct and separate process of formation, or are some of them only repetitions of fissures previously formed?
In studying the cerebral fissures as l)resented in the brains of different animals, especially amongst the Carnivora and Ungulata, it had appeared to him that many of the fissures should be regarded in the latter light, that is, as vegetative repetitions.
ATiewed in this way, many difliculties with regard to the identification of homologous fissures in different brains disappear.
According to the meciianical theory, a deep and distinct fissure having l)cen formed, tliere would be a tendency to produce otlier fissures following the same general direction, having the same general apj^earance, and depending for their formation on the one originally laid down.
According to the view that fissures are the result of retarded cerebral growth, we may expect to find, esi)ecially in lower forms of brains in which much fissuration exists, vegetative repetitions of the same lines of retarded growth.
In either case, the fissures which appear after tlie O) iginal fissure, and which follow its general contour, should be considered as belonging to one group with that fissure, and to be of secondary importance in relation to it.
Hence, in many cases, instead of seeking for fissures separately homologous to each other, we will be obliged to consider certain groups to be homologous to certain other groups, the number of separate fissures of which may be more or less numerous.
Owen, in founding his nomenclature of the cerebral fissures in the Carnivora and Ungulata, gave a distinct and separate name to each fissure, and he endeavored to point out the homologue of each of these in different brains.
If, howcA-er, we are to regard, as he should presentl}' attempt to show, that at least some of these fissures are entirely secondary and to be considered as merely vegetative repetitions, then we must not seek, nor is it possible to find, homologues for each fissure, even in closel}' related brains.
Dr. Parker then proceeded to point out some of the fissures in the brain of the Carnivora and Ungulata, which appeared to him to be of the above nature.
If we take the brain of a carnivorous animal, as the domestic cat for instance, and examine tlie upper mesial surface of one of the hemispheres, we will find three fissures lying neaily parallel to each other, one above the other and proceeding postero-anterjorly.
The upper two of these extend from the posterior extremity of the heniisplioiT.
wliilst the lower one hejiins a little interior to the middle, ll is ilie aiiterioi' extremity of tiiis fissure wliirli extends in a transvc'ise direction on to the hiteral suifaee of the hemisphere, and is known nnder the name of the crucial fissure.
The whole fissure is called fi'ontal hy Owen.
The middle (issure he terms the super-callosal, and the upper, the marginal fissure.
This represents the state of things very nearly as found in the hrains of all of tlic Carnivora.
In some cases, however, he had foun<l only two fissures instead of three, the frontal beinf; continuous with the super-callosal; there being, however, a decided indication of a tendency towards separation at the anterior portion of this fissure.
Thus in two specimens of Coali nasica, the frontal fissure was a branch of the super-callosal, a notch, however, indicating where tlie proper super-callosal would end.
In two specimens of the brain of the lion, the frontal fissure was barely separated from the super-callosal, and in examining other brains of Carnivora intermediate stages were met with, from the condition as in Coafi nasica where the two fissures were continuous to the state as found in the cat and ocelot where tlio\' are widely separated.
It would appear, therefore, that the frontal (issure is of the nature of a separated anterior extremity of the super-callosal; and as such he had regarded it, considering it as a repetition of that fissure.
The marginal fissure lies directly above the supcr-callosal, is similar in appearance and follows the same direction, l)ut is not as deep or well marked, and appears in the embryo after it.
This fissure should also, he tliouglit, be considered in a secondary light to the super-callosal and to be a repetition of it.
In some of the carnivora, as in the specimens of the brain of the lion, a fourth fissure makes its appearance in this region ; lying between the super-callosal and marginal fissures, and similar in appearance and relations to them.
He had, therefore, considered all of these fissures as belonging to one group, of which the super-callosal is the t_ype, and the remaining fissures more or less numerous as vegetative repetitions of this fundamental and typical furrow.
In a paper on the morphology of tlie cerebral convolutions, not yet published, he had called this fissure the mesial occipito-frontal, from its arising in the occipital region and proceeding forwards into the frontal lobe ; whilst the remaining furrows he proposed to call the first, second, third, etc., repetitions of this fissure, designating the tjpical fissure by the letters j/jo/, and its repetitions by mof'^ mof'\ mof'"^ etc., respectivel^y.
The bearing of this will be rendered more evident, if we now compare these fissures as found in the Carnivora with the same as found in the Ungulata.
In the Ungulata a fissure is found on the mesial surface of the hemisphere which is the horaologue of the mesial occipitofrontal of the Carnivora.
It takes its origin in the posterior or oeci|)ital region and proceeds forwards into the frontal lobe.
Besides this, there are one or two other fissures present lying parallel with it which ma}' be coiisiflered as repetitions of it.
In these brains, however, the marginal fissure, which in tlie Carnivora lies on the mesial surface, appears on the lateral surface of tlie brain, together with a number of fissures more or less numerous, similar to it, and which are not represented in the brain of tlie Carnivora.
It is this collection of fissures that gives to this region of the brain the complex character, and extensive fissu ration which it presents.
The brain of the Peccary, Dicotyles torqtialiis, seems to occupj' a position in reference to these fissures, midway between the brain of the Carnivora and the brains of the other Ungulata.
In tlie brain of this animal, we find on the mesial surface a distinct and well marked mesial occipito-frontal fissure, extending from the occipital region forwards and encircling the corjuis callosum just as the fissura calloso-marginalis does in man, of which it is the homologue.
A short distance posterior to its central jioint, a small fissure forks off from it, still remaining continuous with it.
No other fissures are found on the mesial surface proper, but at the edge of the hemisphere, where the lateral and mesial surfaces join, a distinct and well marked fissure is found Avhich follows the direction of the mesial occipito-frontal fissure and corresponds to the marginal fissure of tlie Carnivora; which he had regarded as a repetition of the mesial fissure, and designated as mo/'.
On the lateral surface in this brain there are no other fissures which can be considered as repetitions, but as we advance through a series of ungulate brains, this tendency to repetition in this region becomes exceedingly marked, and so numerous that they cover a considerable portion of the lateral surface of the bi'ain.
In Dzco/^/e.s, as we have seen, there is onh' a single fissure present, but these gradually increase in number until in some brains as many as five can be distinguished.
In the Caribou and Sheep, two may be seen.
In the Giiafle, Malay Tapir, and Llama, etc., three may be distinguished, and in the Horse he had counted as many as five.
It is to this repetition of the same fissure that the exceedingl}convoluted ai)pearance of this portion of the ungulate brain is due, and not to the production of fissures which are to be considered as of the same importance as the other fissures of the hemispheres.
Thus, although the brains of the Ungulata nre much more convoluted than the brains of any of the Primates, except man and a lew of the higher a|)es, still they must be regarded as of a lower type, since this more highly convoluted aspect is produced, not by a greater numlier of distinctive fissures, but to a great extent by simple vegetative repetition of fissures, which are found represented in these primate brains by a single furrow.
Thus, the five fissures as fouiiil in the Horse, taken together are equivalent to the three as found in the Tapir, Giraffe, Llama, etc., to the two in the Sheep and Caribou, to the single fissure as found in Dicotylei^; and finally they are all to be considered as vegetative repetitions of the mesial occipitoIVoiital llssurc.
In tlie Prininlcs, lliis fissure is represented l»y the lissnre calloso-ni:ir<;iiialis, and here the satne tendency is also siiown, as we ascend from tlie lower <ii(>ui)s towards Man, to split up into two or more similar (issnres.
Among the Lcniinid;^, as Fi-opi/fiecui^^ Inch-is, A calls, elc; in the I'lahjrrhini, i\H JIapale, Chri/solhrix, Aleles, Cfbus, etc ; and in the (Jtjnomorjiha, as Maracus, Gynocephahis, etc.
; this fissure is represented hy a single continuous furrow.
In the Anihropomorpha, as the Chiujpanzc^e and Orang, this fissure becomes much broken in its character; and in Man it consists of several distinct parts, which are similar in appearance and relations to each other.
He had noticed in some brains as many as five or six of these separate and distinct fissures following each other regidarly along the course of the calloso-marginal fissure.
They tend in appeaiance towards the shape of an elongated figure four.
He had observed that this rei)etition is esj)eciaily regular, and -well marked in the lu-ain of the negro.
The calloso-maiginal fissure is described as terminating posteriorly a short distance behind the central fissure, appearing as a slight notch on the lateral surface of the hemisphere.
Directl}' back of this, a small fissure is present, situated on the praecuneal lobule, which has been regarded as a distinct and unimportant fissure merely marking this lobule.
From a studj' of a number of brains, he had been led to consider this as the posterior portion of the calloso-marginal fissure detached from it, just as the anterior portion splits up into several parts.
In the Orang and Chimpanzee this also appears to be detached, but in the lower lorms the calloso-marginal fissure extends back without any break in its continuity.
In the human embiyo the calloso-marginal at the sixth month is represented by a continuous fissure, and it is only in the latter stages of development that it breaks \\\) into separate parts.
The fissures of the occipital lobe in those Primates in which it is fissured, appear also to be repetitions of pre-existing fissures.
In the lower forms of the Simiadse, the occipital lobe appears perfectly smooth and without any fissuration whatevei*.
It is separated from the rest of the hemisphere by two well marked fissures.
These arch, the one above ' and the other below the posterior extremity of the calcarine fissure on the mesial surface, and extending over on to the lateral surface run towards each other, and are separated only by a small narrow convolution, the troisieme j)li de passage exlerne of Gratiolet, The two fissures together form an arch, which cuts oflT, on the posterior lateral surface of the hemisphere, a conical-shaped mass, the a[)ex of which is directed forwards and downwards.
These two fissures taken together he would term the primary occipital arch, and it constitutes the anterior boundar}^ of the occipital lobe.
This lobe is entirely smooth in many of the lower forms of the Simiadae.
Thus, in Ilacacus cynomolgxis no fissures are present, but, as we ascend, this lobe becomes gradually more and more fissured.
These fissures, when the^' appear, follow the direction of* the primary occipital arch, so that a secondary arch appears within the first.
This arch, in the same manner as the primary, extends around the upper and lower branches of the posterior extremity of the calcarine fissure.
It might be well seen in many of the photographs to which he directed attention, especially in 31acacusnemest7-ini(s and in Gynoceph.alus pors.
Sometimes this secondary arch is interrupted at one or two places by small convolutions, just as the primary arcli is by the various plis de passage, but the separate portions still preserve the same relations as before.
In the higher Apes these arches become more undulated.
This is also the case in Ateles.
, In Man the}'^ become very much contorted and broken up, and it becomes difficult to recognize the relations between these detached portions and the parts of the primary arch which also become much separated.
In the negro, these fissures remain more nearly in the state in which they are found in the higher Simians, and the correspondence between tiie two arches can be more clearly distinguished.
The fissures of the occipital lobe should not, it appeared to him, be considered as of the same significance as the fissures of the other lobes, or as the fissures of the primary arch, but of secondary importance, and he would regard them as repetitions of the two branches of this arch.
In the temporal lobe Ecker has described a fourth temporal fissure in addition to the three usually recognized.
This fissure is, however, as he admits, but slightly developed and often absent.
He would regard this fissui'e in the same light as the fissure of the occipital lobe, viz., as a repetition of one of the temporal fissures.
These constitute the most important fissures wiiich he had been led to consider as of secondary significance, since they merely follow lines of development already laid down by a preceding furrow, and do not partake of the natuce of independent fissures to the same extent as many others, althougii they may appear by their length and depth to be of equal morphological significance.
The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 11
