DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS FROM THE CARBONIFEROUS AND UPPER SILURIAN ROCKS OF ILLINOIS AND INDIANA.
BY C. A.
WHITE M.D.
The fossils herein described are a part of an important collection that has been sent to me for study by Mi.
William Giule of Danville Illinois at which localita large part of the collection was made.
Others were obtained by him and by Mr. William Gibson from wellknown localities and some new ones in both the States mentioned in the title.
The frequent discovery of new forms and interesting types in districts the fossils of which have been studied b so many able paleontologists shows the extraordinary profusion and varietj' of invertebrate life during paleozoic time in that great region of which the States of Illinois and Indiana now form a part.
Collections of this kind also suggest manj' important questions to the philosophical paleontologist which however it is not the purpose of the author to discuss in the present paper.
RADIATA.
ACTINOZOA.
Genus BARYPHYLLUM Edwards and Haime.
Baryphyllum fungulus White.
Corallum depressed discoid  inferior surface plain or slightl concave the principal as well as some of the secondarjsepta appearing through the obscurely developed epitheca  periphery moderately sharp upper or calycular surface gentl' convex septal fossett onl' slightly developed  septa numerous but distinct tlie principal septum opposite the septal fossett much stronger than an of the others  the other primary and secondary septa both of about equal strength sharp upon their edges and slightly sinuous and irregular in their course.
The irregular disposition of the secondary septa peculiar to the genus Baryphyllum is wellmarked in this species.
Diameter 10 mm.
 height 2 ram.
Only a single example of this species has been discovered sliirht iinporfoctioiis of wliicli obscure the centre oftlie uiuler siirfaee and also in Kvi tlie septal fossett.
This species diirers consjiieiiously from .
I'crneuiliiniuiu Edwards and Ilainic the secies uon whieh the genus was foundel and which was obtained from the Devonian of Perry County Tennessee see Monog.
Polypiers Fossiles des Terr.
Paleozoiques in the much greater inunber of secondary septa as well as in other details.
Posiliou and locality.
Shales of tlie age of the xSiagara Group township of Waldron Shelby County Indiana.
ECHINODERMATA.
Genus PLATYCRINUS Miller.
Platycrinus Bonoensis AVhite.
Body of the onlinary cupshape moderately deep  base shallow basinshaped concave at the luiildle of the under side or appearing to be so in consequence of the presence of a moderately broad and strong circular ridge surrounding the central portion and not extending outward quite to the borders of the base.
First radial pieces about as long as wide having tlie shape and characteristics of outline usual in cupshaped bodies of this genus scarcely more convex than the general convexity' of the bod facet for the articulation of the second radial pieces shallow second radial pieces very small and transversely snbrhombic in outline.
Upon the second radial pieces the rays divide into two secondary rays the first piece of each articulating upon the second radial but also abutting iu part upon the upper border of the first radial.
The secondary ra3s consist of two pieces each upon the uppermost of which they again divide the outer arms of each division from that point upward continuing simple to the end while the two inner subdivisions of the raagain divide into two arms each upon the second piece above first division beyond which all the arms of the whole ray six iu number are simple making 30 arms for the whole body.
The arms are moderately slender comparatively short and for the first two or three pieces above the last bifurcation they consist of single wedgeshaped pieces but above that tliey are made up of the usual double interlocking series of pieces.
The onl' examples yet discovered have their arms so closch folded together that the pinules are hidden from view.
With the arms thus folded the whole animal had an obovate form.
The stem near the bod is moderately strong and slightly elliptical in outline of transverse section.
Surface nearl' smooth or faintl' corrugated.
The part of the body above the calyx unknown.
Height of body to tlie top of the first radials 8 mm.
 greatest breadth 10 mm.
 height from the base of the body to the top of the arms 26 mm.
This species resembles P. sequalis Hall as figured by leek and Wortlien in Volume Y. of the Illinois Geological Reports but it differs from that species in having the base concave instead of protuberant in the iroportions of tlie body the comparative shortness of the arms and in wanting the peculiar geniculation of the iieces of tlie double series composing tlie arms.
It resembles P. laevis Miller as figured by de Koninck and le Hon on jilate VI.
Recherches sur les Crinoides du Terraine Carbonifcre de la Belgique but it differs in having only two instead of three primary' radial pieces to each ray and also in other details of structure.
P'oailion and locaJiiij.
Subcarboniferous limestone probably equivalent with the Keokuk limestone Rono Lawrence Count Indiana.
Genus SCAPHIOCRINUS Hall.
Scaphiocriuus Gibsoni White.
Bod' of medium size or comparatively small  calyx roughly cupshaped  plates moderately thick and protuberant especially the radials and the first anal  base small nearl' or quite covered by the upper joint of the column  subradial plates comparatively large tumid  first radials broader but scai'cel' larger than the subradials sutures between the plates of the calyx impressed especially at the points where the angles meet and where there is a pitlike depression which increases the tumid appearance of the plates and gives the calyx a somewhat shrivelled aspect anal space comparatively large.
The posterolateral rays consist of three pieces including the first radials and upon each of the third radials the first bifurcation takes place and above this the posterior secondary branch only bifurcates and this third bifurcation takes place on the eighth piece above the second bifurcation  giving five arms for each of the posterolateral rays beyond all 32 rnOCKEDlNCS ok TIIK ACADKMr OF 1X78.
tlie liifiircations.
All llic piece's of the rays iiiclti'ling those of botli tlie riiiiiiiy and siiliordinate divisions have a tcudeiicv to bet'oine aniiulai' upon the liaek especially at the nppcrsidc.
This toiether with the apparent eorrngitijn of the ealyx and the 7.1'ziig artieidation of the joints of the aims near their upper ends gives the whole specimen a good degree of aspeiity of aspect.
Pinnies strong and somewliat angular one arising from each joint of the arms and subordinate divisions of the ra's non alternate sides.
The other rays are not fully known but thc apparently lifurcate in nearly the same manner as the posterolateral ones.
Column moderately large composed of irregularly alternating larger and smaller pieces.
The whole surface of bod' arms and column distinctly granular.
Breadth of body.
7 mm.
 height from base to top of first radial pieces 4 mm.
 height from base of bodto the top of the arms 35 mm.
This species resembles S. sequal'ti Hall as figured in Vol.
Y. of the Illinois Geological Survey more nearly than any other known to me but it differs from that species in the much greater proportionate length of the arms as well as their number and the manner of their bifurcation besides the difference in the character of the surface.
A conspicuous difference is seen in the divisions of the ra3'S  S. sequalis having eight arms I' the ultimate division of each posterolateral ray while the species under discussion has only five.
In the former species also the joints of the upper part of the arms lack that zigzag arrangement that they have in the latter and the general asperity of aspect of the latter is wanting in the former.
The specific name of this species is given in honor of 'Slv.
William Gibson from whom I have received many fine fossils for examination.
Position and locality.
Subcarboniferous strata probablyequivalent with the Keokuk limestone Crawfordsville Indiana.
Mr. Gurley's collection also contains an example from Bono Lawrence Count Indiana that seems to belong to this species.
Scaphiocrinus Gurleyi White.
Body of medium size or somewhat less calyx roughly cupshaped  subradial first anal and first radial plates prominent the sutures being deeply impressed  base nearly covered by the last joint of the column  snbradial and first anal plates as large as or a little larger than the first radials  the anterior and the two anterolateral rays only are known.
These rays consist of three pieces each including the first radials already mentioned as a part of the calj'x and upon the third one the first bifurcation takes place each division being once more bifurcated at varying distances from the first.
In the anterior ra the second bifurcation takes place upon the eleventh piece from the first.
In the anterolateral rays the second bifurcation takes place upon the ninth piece of the anterior branch of each of those rays from the first bifurcation and upon the seventli piece of he posterior branch.
Near the tips of some of the arms there is still another bifurcation the divisiois of which being small may easil' be overlooked or confounded with the coarse pinnies.
The pinnies are large long and angular each piece of all the divisions of the arms above the first bifurcation of the rays bearing one wiiich are arranged upon alternate sides.
The backs of all the divisions of tlie rays are rounded and have little or no tendency to become angular except perhaps toward the extremity of the arms.
Column composed of irregularly alternating larger and smaller pieces.
Surface granular.
Height of body from base to the top of the first radials 3 mm.
 breadth at top of the first radials 4 mm.
 height from base to top of arms 28 mm.
The calyx of this species closely resembles that of S. Gibsoni especially in the tumidity of the snbradial and first anal pieces and in the character of the column  but it differs very materially from that species in the number of arms and the character of their bifurcations as well as in the surface markings and other details.
The specific name is given in honor of Mr. William Gurle' its discoverer.
Position and locality.
Subcarboniferous strata probably equivalent with the Keokuk limestone Crawfordsville Illinois.
Genus LEPIDESTHES Meek and Worthen.
Lepidesthes Colletti White.
General form apparentl ovate.
Interambulacral areas ver' narrow linear slightly convex from side to side composed of four or five rows of small plates which rows apparently do not decrease in number except perhaps at either extremity.
Ambulicril aicas liroad iirlikiiii of Hit.'
convexity of the body lanceoval in outline and live or six times as broad as the interambulaeral areas are.
Anibulacral areas made np of very nnmenjiis small I'hombic plati's the transverse diameter of wiiich is a little greater than the vertical  their lateral angles moderately aeute and interlocking so that they apiear to be arranged in oblique rows size of the plates nearly uniform tiiroughout the field except tiiat they all become a little smaller near both the upper and lower extremities of the body.
The number of vertical rows of these plates in eaeh field is apparently 18 or 20.
Each anibulacral plate has two distinct round pores near each other and near the upper angle of the plate.
Surface granules small more distinct upon the interambulacral than upon the ambulacral plates.
Only one specimen of this species has been discovered and this is in a crushed condition.
The original height was about 45 millimetres and its transverse diameter irobabl3' considerably less.
The crushed condition of the specimen causes some doubt as to the true i umber of longitudinal rows of interambulacral plates but the3' evidently do not exceed five.
There seems to be only four rows to each area one row of comparatively large plates with two rows of smaller ones on the righthand side of it and one row on the left.
This want of bilateral symmetry suggests the possibilit' that one row on the lefthand side of the row of large plates has been forced beneath the others bj' pressure but a careful examination fails to reveal any evidence of it.
This species is clearl3' distinguished from L. Coreyi M. and W. the onl' other known species of the genus by the very much narrower interambulacral areas the difTerent and varying proiortions of the plates composing the former areas as well as some other important but less conspicuous diflerences.
The specific name is given in honor of Hon.
John Collett of Newport Indiana whose effective labors in the geology' of that State are well known and highl valued.
Position and localily.
Subcarboniferous strata probabl' equivalent with the Keokuk limestone Salem Washington County Indiana.
MOLLUSCA.
POLYZOA.
Genus PTILODYCTIA Lonsdale.
Ptilodyctia triangulata White.
Coralhiin apparently ramose transverse section triangular the three sides being either flat or concaAe usuall the latter and poriferous  the three edges sharp  the laminar axis consisting of three divisions which end respectively at the three edges and meet at the centre of the corallum pores well developed but not arranged in the regular order that is common in this genus nor are they bounded by any longitudinal or transverse lines or ridges.
Their moiiths are moderately prominent slightl' oval the direction of the longer diameter subject to no Iegularit3 The breadth of the sides of tiie corallum varies from 3 to 5 millimetres  full length unknown.
This species differs from typical forms of Ptilodyctia in having three flat or concave sides instead of two convex ones in the axis being conseuentl3 tripartite and in the irregular dispositionof the pores upon the surface.
Position and locality.
Coalmeasure strata Danville Illinois.
CONCHIFERA.
Genus ASTARTELLA HalL Astartella Gurleyi White.
Shell small not ver' gibbous subtetrahedral in outline  anterior end truncated from the beaks obliquely downward and forward to about midheight of the shell where the front is sharply rounded to the somewhat broadly rounded base  posterior border broadly convex and joining both the basal and dorsal margins by more abrupt curves  dorsal margin comparatively short nearly straight  beaks small umbones not elevated nor very prominent.
An indistinctly defined umbonal ridge extends from each of the umbones to the posterobasal margin behind which the shell is slightl compressed.
Surface marked by concentric furrows which are separated by sharp linear ridges.
Length of an example of average size among those of the collection 1 millimetres  height from base to beaks 4 imllimetres.
TIlis species difFers from 1.
iv'v Hall with wliicli it is sometimes associated in its smaller size in the slight itroinineiice and want o1' elevation of the nmlonesthe jjrealer roiortioiid projection of the fiont beyond the beaks and in being wider behind than in front the reverse being the case with A. iwra.
The secific name is given in honor of Mr William fJurle'.
in whose eollection oidy I hive seen the species.
Fositioii and localihj.
Coalmeasure strata Danville Illinois.
Genus NAUTILUS Brcynius.
Nautilus Danvillensis White.
Shell moderately large umbilicus deep but not very broad showing all the volutions  volutions apparently four increasing rapidly in size verj slightly embracing subtrihedral in cross section the two sides of the volution forming two sides of that outline while the inner side of the volution forms its third side  sides of the volution plain nearl' flat or slightly convex  dorsum very narrow concave and marked at either edge where it joins the side by a row of longitudinally compressed nodes.
The sides are rounded abruptl' into the umbilicus which is unusually deepened by the diameter of the volutions being greater at the inner side than elsewhere.
Septa plain somewhat deeply concave dorsoventrall' but less so transversel'  siphuncle subcentral a little nearer to the dorsal than the ventral side.
Surface smooth except the ordinary lines of growth and the two rows of dorsal nodes before referred to.
Shell thin.
The specimens being imperfect the exact form of the aierture is not accuratel' known but the lines of growth show the lateral margins to have been sigmoid and the dorsal margin concave.
These lines also indicate that the aperture was obliipie to the diameter of the plane of the shell the dorsal portion retreating and the ventral projecting.
Transverse diameter of a volution of less than full adult size from edge to edge of the umbilicus 4 centimetres  dorsoventral width of its sides 5 centimetres breadth of dorsum 16 millimetres the full diameter of plane of the largest example discovered about 13 centimetres.
The narrow concave dorsum with its two rows of compressed nodes  the plain flattened sides of the volutions and their greatest diameter being adjacent to the umbilicus are characters that distinguish this species from all others known to me.
Position and locality.
Coalmeasure strata Danville Illinois.
ARTICULATA.
VERMES.
Genus SERPULA Linnsous.
Serpula Insita White.
Permeating an earth' carbonaceous layer of the coalmeasure strata at Newport Yerrailion Couut' Indiana are abundant fragments of a very small serpula which evidently burrowed in the mass when it was in the condition of mud.
Also sessile upon the surface of some embedded shells are some nearlperfect examples of the same species.
The species of this genus are usually so devoid of characteristics that clearly separate them from each other that a distinctive diagnosis is difflcultor impossible.
This species is not likelj to be mistaken for any other in consequence of its very small size and because no other is known in the rocks of that age in that region.
It is named for the convenience of fully classifying all the collections of fossils which are yielded by the rich strata of the coalmeasures of Illinois and Indiana as well as the adjoining States.
This species may be characterized as minute sessile or free tortuous subcylindrical.
Fedrlary 5 1878.
The President Dr. Rusciienberger in the chair.
Tliirtjtwo persons present.
The deaths of Andrew IMiirrny a correspondent and of Dr. Chas.
L. Cassin U. S. N. a memler of the Acadern were announced.
Note on Cahjvanlhus Floridns.
 Nlr.
Thomas Meeuan said thongli tliis plant has been nnder culture for many years the fruit was rarely seen.
In correspondence with a leading author it had been suggested that the plant might be incapable of selffertilization and that being so far from its native place the special insect arranged to be the agent in fertilization had not followed it.
Since that time Mr. Meehan had obtained seeds from the Cumberland Mountains in Tennessee and plants from these had flowered on his grounds manj' of them producing fruit in the greatest alundance while the old plants still remained as barren as they ever were.
It was therefore clearly a case in which insects had no agenCy one wa' or the other.
There was he said in plants two distinct forms of force  the vegetative and the reproductive the one growing out of and dependent on the other and 3'et to a certain extent antagonistic and that these forces had their lines especially in the petaloid and staminoid verticils and this resulted in producing some individual plants abundantly productive of fruit while others were almost or wholl3barren.
This was the case with most species of plants.
The lines were never exactly drawn between these forces.
In the case of the Cah'canthus the earliest individual introduced to cultnre happened to be one that favored the vegetative side and in which the reproductive had but little power and this individual as often happens in nurseries had been propagated from bcuttings or offsets and widel3' distributed.
It was in this direction that we had to look for the explanation of man' similar experiences and not merel' to the necessit' for crossfertilization.
He further called attention to the carpellary structure of the capsules of the Calycanthus exhibited.
It was not formed of a single verticil of primarj' leaves but of manj as might be seen by the traces of the veins of the original leaves on the capsule.
In most species of plants of this character the action of the reproductive over the vegetative force is so powerful that the transformation is complete and the casual observer could scarcely believe that a seedvessel was but a mass of metamorphosed leaves.
In this case we might say that the vegetative force had achieved considerable headway before the reproductive force had been able to bend the other to its own purposes.
Distinctive Characters of Teeth.
 Dr. Harrison Allen proposed to distinguish the buccal from the palatal side of human upper molars by the presence of a sulcus upon the latter surftices and its absence from the former.
The bicuspid teeth were found to present crowns having an anterior and posterior limiting ridge upon their grinding surfaces.
These ridges are inconstant in the molars notablupon the jjosterior edges of their crowns.
Upon the anterior edges the'' as a rule are seen and recall the peculiarity of the similar teeth of Cynocephalus and Semnopithecus.
When a human molar exhibits the anteropalatal cusp united to the anterobuccal cusp by a wellpronounced limiting ridge it was thought to be an instance of reversion of the human to the qnadrumanous t3'pe.
February 12.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtjone persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication    Notes on North American Caridea in the Museum of the Peabody Academy of Sciences at Salem Mass.
B J. S. Kingsle  Additions to Mr. Cooke's paper on the Yalsei of the United States.
By W. C. Stevenson Jr.
The deaths of George T. Barker Thomas P. Remington and Wm.
Welsh members of the Academy were announced.
February 19.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirt'three persons present.
Foliaceous sepals in Hepatica.
 Mr. Martindale exhibited a specimen of Hepatica triloba wliich he had collected near the mouth of the Wissahickon Creek in April 1877 all the flower stalks of which had produced leaves in tlie place of sepals similar in shape to those usually produced on the leaf stalks but onl about onehalf their size  and then spoke of the causes of this change of condition.
He stated that investigators in the study of this branch of the vegetable kingdom had long since attributed any deviation from the normal character as due not to a want of vitality' but to a superabundance of vitality and claimed that this specimen was a fair illustration and a confirmation of that theor it being the largest specimen he had ever seen.
The great 40 PROCEPiiNa.s of tiik academy of 178.
aliiiiiilaiicc of iVHils the presciioe oC a large iiiiiiihi'i' of loaves of tlu
preceding ycir wliicli had remained altaclied to llie plant tlirongliont tlie winter tlie true leaves jf the season just becoming visible and which appeared to be of greater alnindaiice than those of a foi'uier year's growth all gnvc evidence of the presence of an unusual amount of vitality.
No llowers had been produced at all at the same time tiie Hower stalks which had produced leaves were exceedingly numerous.
This morpliologic change gave evidence of still another as these leaves upon close examination were found to be covered with a fungoid growth of a low type the tendency of which may have been to dwarf or disturb the full and free exercise of the vital force of the plant.
Mr. Thomas Meeiian observed that he was not prejwred to sa3that extra vigorous growth in a plant had any relation to morphological changes in the parts of the inflorescence but he regarded with great interest the specimen exhilited Ijccanse he lelieved the normal change of leaves to sepals would not have been interfered with but for the presence of the minute fungus.
As in the cases which he liad in the past brought to the notice of the Academy where Eiqhoi'bia proalrata and Portulaca oleracea became erect when attacked b an JEcidium he thought the present an illustration that varying phases of nutrition governed form.
We know from many observations that interference with nutrition had an influence on morphological changes.
The calla Riehardia yElhiopica which under one system of culture produced all leaves under others had some of them changed to its wiiite spathaceous flowers and a ringed branch would often cause what would otherwise have been leaves and branches to become flowers and fruit.
It was a great point gained to perceive the agent in the change though the precise law influencing the agent was still obscure.
On Citrine or Yelloio Quartz.
 Prof. Leidy made remarks on citrine or yellow quartz with the hope of eliciting more accurate information as to its origin.
Cut as a gem it is common and is sold by the jewellers almost to the exclusion of the true mineral for topaz.
The cut specimens of citrine occur in all siiades from a pale strawyellow to the richest orange hue often with a brown tinge more or less deep.
Uncut specimens of the mineral of equal quality in color are rare in mineralogical collections.
Pale yellow citrine is derived from many localities but the best and deeper colored varieties are said to come from Brazil.
In the museum of the Academy there is a ielble of pale yellow citrine alout the size of a fist presented from the Brazilian collection at the close of the late International Exhibition.
In the dislay of quartzes of the Brazilian collection no darker specimens of the citrine were observed.
Some authorities refer to citrine as probalil' being prorliiced by burning araeth3st or smolvyquartz  Kluge  Handb.
Edelsfeinkunde 374 Lange  HalbedeLseine 30.
Prof. Leidj' exhibited clear colorless specimens of quartz cut and in the natural cr'stal which he said were amethysts and smokyquartz wliich had been submitted for a short time to a moderate red heat resulting in the total expulsion of all color.
Sraokj'quartz of the darkest hue from Paris Maine  Hot Springs Arkansas  and Pike's Peak Colorado have the color completely dissipated after a short exposure to moderate red lieat.
PerliaiS heating under peculiar circumstances may convert the usual color of amethyst into the yellow of the citrine but specimens heated in the ordinary manner did not indicate such a change.
February 26.
The President Dr. Kuschenberger in the chair.
Thirt'two persons present.
The deaths of Prof. Andreas Retzius and of Dr. 0.
A L. Morch correspondents were announced.
Papers entitled  Distribution of Spiders by the Trade Winds and The Basilica Sinder Epeira basilica b' the Rev.
H. C. McCook were presented for publication.
J. Gozzardini Bologna G. Menegliini Pisa Antoine Stoppani Milan Francisco Coello Madrid J. J. Steenstrup Copenhagen F. Steenstrup Copenhagen  R. Brough Smyth Melbourne  Edouard Van Beneden Liege and Jules Klinckel d'Herculais Paris were elected Correspondents.
The following papers were ordered to be printed  
