DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF CATOSTOMUS (CATOSTOMUS CYPHO) FROM THE COLORADO RIVER.
BY WM.
N. LOCKINGTON.
Catostomus cypho, sp.
nov. D. 3, 14.
A.
2, T. C. M-16-1-Y.
P. 18.
T. 10.
L. lat.
79.
Head conical ; snout long, much depressed ; dorsal outline rising in a straight line to the occipital region, where commences a prominent and considerably elevated liump, which attains its greatest height at a distance from the occiput about equal to the length of the snout, and thence descends to the origin of the dorsal.
Along the base of the dorsal fin the dorsal outline descends rapidly to about the end of the second third of the total length of the fish ; caudal peduncle extremely elongated, and widening considerably' toward the caudal base.
Abdominal outline almost straiglit to the origin of the anal, thence diminishing to the caudal peduncle.
Greatest depth, at anterior pectoral axil, contained not quite 4^ times ; head a little more than 4 times in tlie total length ; snout a little more tlian 2|, eye between 8 and 9 times in the length of the head ; length of top of head not quite 2^ times in the distance (in a straight line) from the tip of the snout to the dorsal ; inter-ocular width equal to the length of the snout ; pectoral about 1^ in length of head ; caudal peduncle about 3| in the greatest depth.
Moutli rather wide, inferior.
Lower lip small, in two distinct ovoid lobes, covered with low, flat-topped papilla?
; the front of the dentarjbones covered by a well-developed, round-edged, horny plate.
Lower lip quite distinct from the upper ; the skin of the cheeks forming an obliquely ascending crease, which does not, however, cover the angle of the mouth.
• Anterior nostril horizontally sub-elliptical ; posterior large, vertical, crescentic, entirely covered by its anterior flap.
Two distinct rows of pores on the top of the head ; connected on the occiput with a series running behind and below the eye almost to the tip of the snout.
Phar3Migeals arcuate, with numerous teeth, regularly' diminishing posteriorly.
Opercular region well developed ; the distance from the posterior margin of the eye to that of the operculum being, to the length of the snout, about as eleven to nine.
Posterior margin of operculum and sub-operculum forming a continuous bold couA^ex curve.
Pectorals triangular-ianceolate, fourth and fifth rays longest ; their tips extending to beyond the middle of the pubic bones, ra3'S once or twice bifurcate, the first two excepted.
Yentrals reaching bej^ond the vent, the third rays longest, the last about two-thirds as long ; all the ra^^s twice bifurcate except the first.
Dorsal well developed, fourth and fifth rays longest, and contained about 1^ times in the greatest depth ; first three rays simple, the others twice bifurcate.
Anal considerably shorter than the dorsal, but equal in depth to the height of the latter; the first two rays simple, the others (except the last) twice or thrice bifurcate ; first ray about half as long as the second.
Origin of the dorsal about one-sixth nearer to the tip of the snout than to the centre of the base of the caudal (measuring along the axis of the body), the base of its eighth ray above the anterior axil of the ventrals.
The tips of the anal rays reach beyond the first caudal accessories.
Caudal with numerous accessory rays, the longest about half as.
long as the outer simple principal ray ; the other principal rays three times bifurcate ; posterior margin of fin triangularly emarginate.
Scales C3'cloid, of variable size ; each scale with 8-16 conspicuous radiating striie on its exposed portion ; ihe striae and their interspaces crossed by numerous, much less distinct concentric striae.
Engaged portion of each scale with numerous diverging striae, less distinct than those of the free portion.
Scales along and near the lateral line larger than those above and below, and increasing considerably in size posteriorly, as do also those above and below, so that the largest scales of the body are upon the peduncle of the tail.
The scales diminish much more rapidl}in size downwards than upwards, so that those of the abdominal region and behind the pectoral base are by far the smallest.
Scales somewhat pentagonal, the length exceeding the height ; those upon the caudal peduncle almost twice as long as high.
Fins scaleless, as is also a small patch on the anterior part of the dorsal hump.
Lateral line deflected near its origin, then running along the median line of the bod^to the origin of the caudal.
Pores simple.
Color of the preserved specimen silv£r3--gray above, light straw-color or creamy on the abdominal region and under side of the head ; fins light uniform slat^-gra}'.
The color is produced by numerous dark dots upon the scales and membrane between them, but fewer upon the scales, the outlines of which are therefore quite distinct.
The hump is supported anteriorly by a very large trapezoidal inter-neural, formed of a thick central pillar witli anterior and posterior aloe, the latter twice as large as the former.
The upper margin of the bone is highest at the point of the central pillar, from which it slopes anteriorly' and posteriorly.
Tlie base of the central pillar is broadly expanded transverseh', oftering a double articulating surface on its under side.
The next inter-neural is a thin flat sub-rectangular plate, while the next three are expanded above, attenuated below ; the fifth bent, and smaller than the fourth, the loM'er portion of which is also bent forward.
Interneurals of dorsal fin with a central ray and an anterior and posterior expansion dying out at their lower fourth ; symmetrical, except that supporting the first two rays.
Tliis is evidently formed by two inter-neural bones, united by a thin bonj' plate, which forms a broad expansion in front of the first, and a narrow one behind the second.
Upon the first vertebra there is a broad articulating surface, apparentl}"^ for the reception of the first inter-neural, as a thin longitudinal perpendicular partition exactly fits into a notch between the two articulating surfaces of that bone.
Tlie transverse processes of this vertebra are broadly expanded inferiorly, and their lower edges suturally united to a pair of ver}^ large bony plates of complex form, connecting tlie air-bladder with the back of the skull.
From the anterior margin of each neurapophj-sis of the next nine vertebne springs an upward-directed process, which, in the first of these vertebnv, is almost as long as tlie neural spine, br,t which diminishes in size on each successive vertebra.
The neural spines of the first two of these vertebriie are bifid.
240 [1880.
The single specimen from which the above description is taken was brought from the Colorado River, at the junction of the Gila, and was sent to the museum of the California Academj^ of Sciences by John E. Currj^, Esq., Civil Engineer.
It is said that the species is not uncommon in the locality from which this specimen was procured, and it is much to be regretted that we have onl}this example, especially since it is greatly damaged by the extraction of the large inter-neural some two years ago.
The air-bladder is destroyed, so that it is impossible to tell whether it agrees with the other species of Gatostomus, in having that organ divided into two portions.
The extremities of the fins are also much broken, and the shape of the body distorted.
Dimensions Total length, Length to base of caudal.
Greatest depth, about .
Length of head, . "
top of head, " snout, from e^'e, Longitudinal diameter of eye, Inter-ocular width, Depth of head, at front of eye, Snout, from front of uostrils, Tip of snout to origin of dorsal, ii Length of base of dorsal.
Height of longest dorsal ray, Tip of snout to anterior portion of Length of pectoral fin, Tip of snout to anterior portion of Length of ventrals, '• anal base, *■' longest anal ray, .
Tip of snout to origin of anal, Width of caudal peduncle, .
Length of first inter-neural, .
Heiiiht of " '• a straight line pectoral ventrals base INCHES.
Hi n n 2V Wa j>_ 16 27 3 2 2| 1 15 2H ^ 3 1^ 6| 3^ 1 5 T« 29 32 P R O C E E D 1 N a S OP THE MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION OF THE ACADEMY OF Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
187 7-18 7 9.
May 28, 1877.
A New Polariscope — Mr. H. C. Lewis remarked that a cheap and accurate polariscope for the measurement of the optic-axial diveroence in minerals had Ions:: been a desideratum amona; mineralogists.
He wished to direct attention to an instrument for this purpose, lately made for him by Queen & Co., of this cit}', which had proved very satisfoctory.
The light was polarized b}^ reflection from a plate of black glass, converged upon the rotating stage by two sets of adjustable lenses, and analyzed by a Nicol's prism.
A graduated circle of steel, having through its axis a sliding forceps, is fastened at right angles to the stage.
A pointer records the amount of rotation of the forceps.
The mineral to be examined is either held in the forceps or is attached by a drop of oil to a piece of thin glass which is held in the same way.
Cross-hairs are fixed below the eye piece, and the measurement of the divergence of the optic axes is performed in the usual way.
The instrument was found to work admirably and could be recommended.
The adjustments were made quickly and the axial divergence could be determined to within 30'.
It is simple, absorbs but little light, and gives good results even with very small fragments of minerals.
A Garnet with Inverted Crystallization.
— Mr. Lewis exhibited a garnet which he had found in Germantown, and stated that it showed a very perfect example of inverted cr^'stallization.
Its form was a perfect trapezohedron except that one octant was depressed, its apex lying within the crystal, one-halfway towards the centre.
The re-entrant angles corresponded in position with the trihedral edges on the opposite octant of the crystal.
The garnet was an isolated one found in a matrix of gneiss.
Attention was called to the fact that such inverted cr3'stallization was apparently more common in the isometric than in other S3'stems of crj'stallization and comment was made upon the cause of such phenomena.
June 25, 1877.
Change of Serpentine into Quartz.
— Mr. Theodore D. Eand described and presented specimens showing the change of serpentine into quartz, very strikingly shown near a quarry of serpentine rock on tiie farm of John Stacker, about a tlaird of a mile N. W. of Radnor Station, P. R. R., Delaware Co., Pa.
The outcrop of the serpentine is accompanied by a rock, locally called " Ironstone," which however is a cellular quartz, generally stained by oxide of iron.
It occurs as loose masses in the soil, generally of small size, but sometimes of over a hundred pounds weight ; the cavities are frequently lined with drusy (piartz.
This rock is of common occurrence in connection with serpentine belts, but that it has arisen from a decomposition of the serpentine, has, he believed, not been observed elsewhere.
On the south side of Stacker's quarry a few feet below the original surface of the ground, is a bed of soft serpentine much cracked ; a foot or two above, these cracks are found lined with chalcedonic quartz, of paper-like thinness ; above, the quartz thickens, the serpentine becomes more and more decomposed, until near the surface the quartz onl3^ remains, with the cavities empty, or filled with what appears to be oxide of iron with alumina.
It is an instance of pseudomorphism on a large scale, the progress of which can be traced, step by step, from almost unaltered serpentine to almost pure quartz.
Well-water.
— In this connection the analysis of the water of a well 50 feet deep in the serpentine, about 400 hundred feet from the quarry, but under the same quartz outcrop, may not be xniinteresting.
In a gallon of 70,000 grains, — mean of three analj^ses : — Grains, per Gall.
Parts in 1,000,000.
Silica, ..... 2.753 89.3 Magnesia, .... 1.262 18.
Lime, .262 3.7 Peroxide of Iron and Alumina, .
.577 8.2 Sulphuric Acid, .687 9.9 Chlorine, .124 1.7 .5.665 80.8 A New Locality for Siderite.
— Mr. H. C. Lewis announced Dunbar, Faj'ette Co., Penna., as a new locality for Siderite.
It there occurs in finely crj'stallized specimens in the interior of nodules of amorphous Siderite.
These nodules or concretions are of various and often curious shapes.
Doubly terminated limpid quartz crystals and minute but ver}^ perfect crystals of Pyrite are associated with those of Siderite, forming handsome specimens.
Magnetite Markings in Muscovite.
— Mr. Lewis made some remarks on the markings in the Muscovite of Brandy wine Hundred, Delaware.
He proved that these markings were Mag netite, by exhibiting their attractability by the magnet, and said that in order to exhibit this properly, the section must be exceedingly thin.
He stated tliat an optical examination had proved that the direction of the main lines of the markings corresponded with or was at right angles to that of the crystallographic axes of the Muscovite.
He exhibited a plate of the mica shown distinctly to be a twin by the two different groupings of Magnetite markings.
Examination in the polariscope confirmed this structure.
Thus, frequently, the crystalline structure of the mica and the direction of its axes may he ascertained b}' an inspection of these markings alone.
It appeared, therefore, that the form and direction of the markings was determined, not by independent crystallization of the Magnetite forming them, but in part at least by the Muscovite from which it had probably been derived.
These markings are, in some respects, pseudomorphs after Muscovite.
He thought that the statement in Dana's Mineralogy (p. 150), referring to these markings, that "the brandling at angles of 60° indicates composition parallel to a dodecahedral face," was misleading, implying that this form was produced by an inherent property of the Magnetite, and not, as he thought now appears, by the crystalline structure of the Muscovite.
September 24, 1817.
A New Local if y for Asholite.
— Mr. Lewis stated that he had found Asbolite at Flourtown, Montgomery Co., a new locality for this mineral.
It is found in iron ore mines as an incrustation upon Psilomelane.
It is of a bluish-black color, is as soft as graphite, and gives a shining streak when scratched by the nail.
The blowpipe indicates a considerable percentage of cobalt.
A New Locality for Fluorite.
— Mr. W. W. Jefferis stated that a few days since he was shown a massive specimen of Fluor6;par of a deep purple color, which was found in the limestone near the village of Howellville, in Tredyffrin Township, Chester County, Pa.
This is the third locality of fluor in this county.
Epidote in Molybdenite.
— Mr. Lewis mentioned that while examining some Mol3'bdenite from Frankford, Phila., he had found plates of a transparent hard mineral, of a light greenishyellow color, somewhat resembling Wulfenite, occurring in thin laA-ers and minute scales between the folife of the Molybdenite, and sometimes coating it as a thin film.
It was not until after a careful examination that it was proved to be Epidote in an unusual form and situation.
October 22, 1877.
A New Locality for 3Iillerite.
— Mr. Theo.
D. Rand announced the discovery of Millerite in Dolomite, from the Soapstone quarry on the Schuylkill, in Philadelphia, near the Montgomery County line.
It occurred in capillary crystals in cavities of the Dolomite.
THE OPTICAL CHARACTERS OF SOME MICAS.
BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS.
For the determination of the true characters of the micas — a class of minerals rapidl}" gaining in importance — a knowledge of their optical characters is almost as necessarj^ as is that of their chemical composition.
The optical is certainly the most ready method of determination.
The investigation here recorded is but a partial one, and it is hoped that in the future it may be extended so as to include most of the American micaceous minerals.
The measurements have been made for the most part upon minerals which have never been optically examined, and are chiefly American.
A few foreign species have been introduced for comparison.
The micas examined are largely those in the collection of the Academy.
Others were either in the writer's collection or have been kindly given him by friends.
The source from which each specimen has been obtained is noted in the tables given below.
The polariscope used was made by Queen & Co., of this cit}', and was described before this Section at its meeting last Maj-.
It reads to within 30'.
The figures given below represent the mean apparent optic-axial angular divergence for white light.
As the angle is somewhat different in different specimens and sometimes CA'en in different portions of the same plate, the figures must be regarded as only approximate.
In each case they represent a mean of a number of separate measurements, and collectively' are the result of over 1600 such measurements.
Phlogopite.
1.
Sussex Co., N. Y. Hexagonal crystals, 3'ellow, transparent.
(Acad.
Nat.
Sci.)
6°.
2.
Burgess, Oiit., Can.
Clear brown.
(A. N. S.) 6°45'.
3.
N. Shore of Rideau Lake, Burgess, Can.
Angle varies in same piece.
Clearbrown.
(J.Willcox.)
6°-12° 4.
Hammond, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y.
Clear 3'ellow.
Hypei'bolas closer in the centre than thev are near the edges of the crjj-stals.
Crystals are sometimes uniaxial in the centre and biaxial at each end, while the plane of the optic axes at one end is at right angles to that y at the other end, viz.
: One crystal had angle at centre, T^SO', angle at edge, 11°15'.
(A. K S.) 10^40'.
5.
Jefferson Co., N.Y. Brownish-yellow.
(A. N. S.) ll°21'-12°50^ 6.
Yrooman's Lake, Jefferson Co., N. Y. Wine-j'ellow.
(A.N.
S.) 12°45'.
7.
Oxboro', Jefferson Co., N. Y.
Light yellow.
(A. X. S.) 13°12'.
8.
Ottey Lake, Burgess, C. W. Brown hexagonal crystals.
(W. W. Jefferis). '
13°20'.
A crystal from the same locality (J. Willcox) gave for the outer part of crystal, 13°41'; centre of crystal, 11 °23'.
9.
Calumet Is., Canada.
Greenish-^^ellow, transparent.
(A. N. S.) 13°20'-14°18'.
10.
New Hampshire.
Reddish-brown, similar to Darby Biotite ; nearly uniaxial in thin plates.
13°10'-lt°.
11.
Sparta, N. J.
Dark brown; by reflected light nearly black.
14°20'.
12.
Yrooman's Lake, Jefferson Co., N. Y.
Clear pale 3'ellow.
Some crA'stals show identical phenomena with those from Hammond, St. Lawrence Co. 13.
St. Denis.
"Plumose mica:" brown: thick, nebulous hj-perbolas.
14.
"Warwick, N. Y.
Dark green; cleaving into rhombs ; often mistaken for Biotite.
15.
Pope's Mills, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y.
Deep reddish-bi'own.
(W. W.
Jefferis.)
16.
Yesuvius.
Black by reflected light, dark reddish-brown in thin plates.
With icespar : very opaque.
(A. N. S.) It.
Clark's Hill, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y.
Brown.
(W. W.
Jefferis.)
18.
Kennett Square, Del.
Co., Pa. Brown ; in limestone.
19.
Edwards, N.Y. Pearly white.
(W.W. Jefferis).
20.
Rossie, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Yellowishbrown.
(A.N.
S.) 15=52'.
14^ =24'.
W =30'.
14< =52'.
15°.
15 '°±.
15' ^10'.
15< =20'.
15< =30'.
21.
S. Burgess, Can.
Large brown crystal, purple on edges.
(A. N. S.) 16°38'.
22.
Clark's Hill, near Rossie, N. Y. Brownishyellow.
(A.
N.S.)
16°45'.
23.
Clark's Mills, N. Y.
Light brown, transparent : (probably identical with Nos.
IT, 20, 22).
(A. N. s.) n°.
24.
Canada.
Asteriated Phlogopite.
19°.
25.
S. Burgess.
Clear yellow-brown.
(A. N. S.) 19°.
26.
Burgess, C. W. Yellowish-brown crystals, with secondary cleavage along diagonal.
(W. W. Jefferis).
20°.
2*1.
Rossie, N. Y.
Black by reflected, reddishbrown by transmitted light.
(A. N. S.) 21°13^ 28.
Vesuvius.
Black, crumbling, very opaque, mixed with black hornblende.
(A. N. S.) 21°20'±.
29.
Burgess, C. W. Asteriated, not transparent, silvery-brown.
(A. N. S.) 21°35'±.
30.
Rossie, N. Y.
Black by reflected, dark brown by transmitted light.
Contains apatite.
(A. X. S.) 22°.
31.
Chester Co., Pa. Feebly asteriated; locality wrong ?
; probably from Rossie, N. Y.
(A. N. S.) 23°15'.
32.
Alamutchie,X.
J.
Clear reddish-brown.
(Frankl.
Inst.)
30°5'.
33.
Van Arsdale's Quarry, Bucks Co., Pa. Redbrown ; with graphite, etc. "
34°.
Biotite.
1.
Easton, Pa. White, silver mica.
2°±:.
2.
Antwerp, N. Y. Greenish-white.
0°.
3.
Culsagee, N. C. White.
0°.
4.
Vesuvius.
White.
0°.
5.
Darby, Del.
Co., Pa.
Deep red.
0°.
6.
Delaware Co., Pa.
Crystal in muscovite ; black by reflected, brownish-red by transmitted light.
5°±.
7.
Scotland.
Brown.
0°.
8.
Rossie, N. Y.
Brown.
Probably several of these Biotites have an angle of l°-2°.
o 0°.
0°.
56' =25'.
56 °50'.
59' =20'.
60°.
60' =40'.
61' = 10'.
63°.
63°4'.
63' =15'.
63^ '4r.
64 °23'.
Lepidomelane.
Arendal, Norway.
Black; uniaxial.
Frankford, Phila.
Black; uniaxial.
Muscomte.
1.
Brunswick, Me.
Briglit green scales.
(A. N. S.) 2.
Pennsbury, Pa. (A. N. S.) 3.
Yesuvius.
With adularia.
(A. N. S.) 4.
Button's Mills, Del.
Co., Pa, (J. M.
Cardeza.)
5.
St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Greenish-white, plumose radiated crystals, showing Airy's spirals.
(A. N. S.) 6.
Darby, Phila., Pa. Small scales in gneiss.
7.
Siberia.
(A. N. S.) 8.
Germantown, Phila.
Smokjbrown, clear crystals.
9.
Plainfield, Conn, Margarodite.
Contains 5 p. c. of water.
10.
Poorhouse, Del.
Co., Pa. 11.
Germantown, Pa. 12.
Germantown, Pa.
Containing enclosed crystals of a black, uniaxial mica.
64°30'.
13.
Frankford, Pa.
In hornblende rock : in calcite, Avith fluorite and epidote.
(T. D. Rand).
64°50'.
14.
Falls of Schuylkill, Phila.
In hornblende rock. "
65°.
15.
Cumberland, England.
"Nacrite."
(A. N. S.) 65°.
16.
Goyaz, Brazil.
(A. N. S.) 65°50'.
17.
Brandywine Hundred, Del.
Containing magnetite markings.
65°-67°30'.
After heating until it whitens, it has an angle of 49°.
18.
Litchfield, Me.
(A. N. S.) 19.
Portland, Conn. 20.
Southern Colorado.
Identical with mica of Pennsbur}', Pa., and Brandywine Hundred, Del., having magnetite markings, 21.
Grafton, N. H. 22.
Chandler's Hollow, Del.
(J. M.
Cardeza.)
23.
Black Hills, Wyoming.
(A. N. S.) 24.
Zinnwald, Bohemia.
(A. N. S.) 25.
Buncombe Co., N. C. (A. N. S.) 65° -68°34'.
66°.
66°7'.
66°12'.
66°40'.
66°48'.
66°51'.
67°30'.
6r ^30'.
67' ^45'.
61' =45'.
68°.
69^ n9'.
69' =38'.
69' =45'.
70' =14'.
W =30'.
74' °10'.
75°.
76' = 15'.
26.
Germantown, Pa. Large silvery plates.
27.
Dixon's Quarry, Del.
Pale green.
28.
Connecticut.
Green scales.
(A.
!N^.
S.) 29.
Georgetown, Col. 30.
Upland, Del.
Co., Pa.
Pale green.
(.J.
M.
Cardeza.)
31.
Germantown, Pa.
Pale green.
32.
Chester Co., Pa. (A. N. S.) 33.
Westchester Co., N. Y.
34.
Fabyans, White Mountains, N. H. 35.
Glacier of the Aar, Switz.
(A. N. S.) 36.
Trumbull, Conn. Margarodite.
37.
Paris, Me.
Rose-color.
(A.
]S^.
S.) Where not otherwise indicated, the above muscovites are of a clear j^ellowish-brown tint.
Lepidolite.
1.
Altenberg, Saxony.
With Pycnite ; sometimes distorted.
(A. N. S.) 31°.
2.
Zinnwald, Bohemia.
Often very irregular.
On different parts of the same piece the angle varies from 34°30' to 51°30'.
(A. N. S.) 49°30' 3.
Paris, Me.
Much distorted ; several axes.
(A. N. S.) 60°±:.
4.
Middletown, Conn. 66°.
Talc.
1.
Lafayette, above Manayunk, Pa. Exfoliating : fan-shaped cr3^stals : images much distorted.
12°40'.
2.
Lafayette, Pa. Clear.
15°.
3.
Lafayette, Pa. Foliated talc ; distorted images.
15°.
4.
Harford Co., Md.
White.
15°.
5.
Shetland Is.
Clear pale green, sometimes nearly uniaxial.
• 17°.
Pyrophyllite.
Westana, Sweden.
106°51'.
Serpentine.
Chrysotile from Chester Co., Pa., shows strong double refraction when the fibres make an angle of 45° with the plane of polarizatiou of the instrument.
Bissectrix apparently parallel to the fibres, Probabljr orthorhombic.
Common serpentine and Williamsite show no double refraction.
Damourite.
1.
Culsagee, N. C. In scales : analyzed by Koenig.
(F. A.
Genth.)
66°lt'±.
2.
Unionville, Pa. " Emerylite : " irregular h3-perbolas.
(A.
X.S.)
69°35'±:.
3.
Unionville, Pa. On corundum.
72°.
4.
Unionville, Pa. " Corundellite."
(J. M. Cardeza.)
12°.
5.
Horsjoberg, Sweden.
(T. D.
Rand.)
72°25'.
6.
Chester Co., Pa. " Margarite : " irregular, showing sometimes four hyperbolas.
(A. N. S.) T2°30'.
1.
Haywood, N. C. "Altered from corundum."
(F. A. Genth ) 74°.
8.
Unionville, Pa.
Analyzed by Sharpless.
(F. A.
Genth.)
U°10'.
9.
Unionville, Pa.
Analyzed by Koenig.
(F. A.
Genth.)
74°15'.
10.
Newtown, Conn. With Cyanite.
74°24^ 11.
Newlin, Chester Co.
"Margarite."
(A. X. S.) 75°50'.
It is evident that the minerals labelled Emerylite, Corundellite, Margarite, etc., are all Damourite.
Euphyllite.
.1.
Chester Co., Pa. (A. N. S.) 37°-40°.
2.
Unionville, Pa.
"Original."
(F. A.
Genth.)
36°30'.
A thicker piece in which the h^-perbolas were very dim, had an angle of 45°±.
This result is interesting, as the optical angle given by Silliman is 71°.
Cookeite.
Paris, Me.
In small scales.
42°40'.
17 Vermiculite.
1.
E. ISTottingham , Chestei* Co., Pa. Hallite.
In green crystals : uniaxial.
0°.
2.
Cecil Co., McL, Magnesia Quarry.
Hallite.
Contains enclosed arrow-shaped crystals like Hallite : uniaxial.
0°.
3.
Chester Co., Pa., Brown's Quany.
Uniaxial.
(T.D.Rand.)
.0°.
4.
Macon Co., N. C. Maeonite.
In brown scales ; uniaxial or with a divergence of 1°±.
(F. A.
Genth.)
1°±.
0.
MineralHill,Del.
Co., Pa.
Pale green.
(A.N.
S.) 19°.
6.
Lenni, Del.
Co., Pa. Brown and green ; sometimes a very small optic angle occurs.
19°-20°.
*7.
Culsagee, N. C. Culsageeite.
Yellowish-brown: variable angle.
Sometimes the angle varies as different portions of the same piece are moved into the field.
One piece gave 9°, and another was nearly uniaxial.
The angle given is the most constant one.
20° dz.
8.
West Chester, Pa. Jefferisite.
Variable angle : a specimen gave at one part 16°30', and at another 25°, the latter being the most distinct ; a very tliin piece gave 11°30', and a thicker piece 2t°20'.
Apparentl}^ the optic-angle increases with the thickness of the plate.
Some good specimens gave 22°, 25°, and 28°; mean angle probabl}^ 26°±:.
9.
Lafayette Soapstone Quarry, Montgomery Co., Pa. Brown scales in chlorite slate : constant angle 32°-36°30' ; mean, 34° ±.
10.
Germantown, Phila.
Brown plates in hornblende rock.
Optic-angle constant w^ithin 31°20'39°30' ; the most constant angle is 37°±:.
It is very probable that, as suggested by Prof. Cooke, the variation in the optic-angle of the Yermiculites is caused by twinning Ripidolite.
1.
Patterson's Quarry, Xewliu Township, Chester Co., Pa. Irregular green plates; with corundum ; inclination of bissectrix to normal to cleavage plane, 5^30': optic-axial divergence variable on the same plate on account of twinning, varying from 50° to 59°30'.
(T. D.
Rand.)
Generally as given.
59°30'.
2.
West Chester, Pa. Green plates ; inclination of bissectrix 10° : axial divergence, 78°3'0'.
3.
Brinton's Quarrj', Chester Co., Pa. Fine clear green plates ; inclination of bissectrix, 12°30'.
f) y> V. Axial divergence, 82°.
4.
Dudleyville, Ala.
Pale rose-color; on chromite.
Inclination of bissectrix, 1G°.
o > v. (F. A. Genth).
94° 15'.
In all of these, double refraction is feeble compared with that of Muscovite.
It is observed that the inclination of the bissectrix to the normal to the cleavage plane increases with the divergence of the optic axes.
Prochlorite.
Brewster, X. Y., TilljFoster Mine.
Uniaxial.
0°.
Margarite.
1.
Cullakanee, N. C. White, "altered from corundum."
Irregular figures.
(F. A.
Genth.)
110°±.
2.
Chester, Mass.
Rose-color, with corundum ; irregular, in some places showing four hj^perbolas; one piece gave 89°30'.
1I2°45'.
3.
Dudle3'ville, Ala. White, clear; inclination of bissectrix, 1°±.
(F. A. Genth).
122°15'.
4.
Cullakanee, X. C. White, " altered from Zoisite."
Inclination of bissectrix to normal to cleavage plane, 2°ih.
(F. A.
Genth.)
124°.
The large optic-axial divergence of Margarite readily distinguishes it from Damourite and other micas which resemble it.
If further observations agree in showing that the bissectrix is inclined to the normal to the cleavage plane, it will show that Margarite is Monoclinic and not Orthorhombic as has been supposed.
October 22, 1871.
A New Locality for Analcite — Dr. A. E. Foote called attention to the fact that Analcite had been found at Falls of Schuylkill, — a new locality for that mineral.
November 26, 1877.
On the Measurement of Plave Angles.
— Mr. Lewis described a simple and quick way of measuring plane angles in minerals.
It was a method which he had found very useful in the measurement of all edge angles, of cleavage and striatiou angles, the angles of markings and dendrites in mica, and of other flat angles to which a goniometer could not conveniently be applied.
A paper protractor was constructed, the radii of which, distant each from each 1°, were continued from the circumference to the centre.
Horizontal lines, about twenty in number, are drawn across these, parallel to the radius 0° and at right angles to the radius 90°.
These lines being parallel, the angles formed by the intersection of any radius with each of them are equal.
In order to measure the angle of a crystal, it is laid on the protractor, one of its edges is made parallel to a horizontal line, and then the crystal is slid along that line until the other edge, forming with the first the angle to be measured, becomes parallel to one of the intersecting radii.
The desired angle is now read oflT on the circumference of the protractor.
Angles approaching 90° are read on one of the upper horizontal lines, while those of less amplitude are read correspondingly farther down.
A magnifying lens is conveniently used to determine the exact coincidence of the edges of the ciystal with the lines of the protractor.
Very large crystals as well as crj'stals as small as a millimetre in diameter can be measured in this way.
It was found that this method of measurement was very convenient, and, if the protractor had been carefully made, was exact to within 30' ; while it applied to those cases in which neither the reflective nor the hand goniometer could be used.
December 17, 1877.
On an Exfoliating Talc.
— Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis described a variety of talc, occurring at the soapstone quarry above Manayunk, which is in some respects new.
It occurs in fan-like crystals in Dolomite, and is much more similar to Pyrophyllite than to common talc.
It moreover differs from common talc by exfoliating when held in the flame of a candle or Bunsen bui'ner, and was, therefore, at first mistaken for Pyrophyllite.
In the closed tube it exfoliates and gives off water.
In optical characters it is identical with common talc, having been found to have an axial divergence of about 12°40', frequently distorted.
.
It is marked with striations or cleavage planes crossing at angles of 60° and 120°.
In this respect it is like Jettei'isite or Culsageeite, while in common talc such markings are rarely visible, and never distinct.
It has the chemical composition of talc, except that the percentage of water is larger than usual, being 7-02 per centum.
None of this water is hygroscopic, as its weight remains constant in a desiccator over sulphuric acid.
The water of two other talcs from the same localit}^ was determined.
A massive talc whicli does not exfoliate in the Bunsen burner flame or in the platinum crucible, but does so at the point of the blowpipe flame, contains 4.23 per centum of water.
A foliated talc which is caused to exfoliate onlv very slightly even in the blowpipe flame, contained 2.84 per centum of water, and this was driven oS only at an extremel}'' high and long continued heat.
In these three talcs, therefore, we have the interesting results : 1.
That there is a direct ratio between the amount of combined water and the amount of exfoliation.
2.
That there is a direct ratio between the tenacity with which the water is held and the temperature at which exfoliation occurs.
It is thought that perhaps these results may have a bearing in an explanation of the propei'ties of the various Yermiculites.
January 28, 1878.
Tin in Nor^fh Carolina.
— Mr. Lewis exhibited a small piece of tin ore said to have been found in Surry Co., N. C, and which had been handed to him for examination.
It was a soft, light earth}' mass of a brown color, crumbling when pres^^ed, which, when held in a candle flame, became covered with small globules of pure tin.
The earthy base was a silicate of alumina, iron, and lime, and was partially' soluble in acid.
The tin was reduced b}^ ver}^ gentle heat, for less than that required to reduce Cassiterite.
It was suggested that the tin existed in it either native or as an ochre or hydrous oxide.
No sulphides were present.
It was questioned whether the specimen exhibited was a genuine native product.
A New Locality for Gypxum.
— Mr. Theo.
D. Rand announced his discovery of gypsum, as an eftlorescence upon gneiss, at a quarry near Darby, Pa. 254 [1880.
ON SIDEEOPHYLLITE— A NEW MINERAL.
BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS.
A.mong other interesting minerals which are found in the neighborhood of Pike's Peak, Colorado, is a hard black mica, occurring sometimes in large and fine crj'Stals, which the writer has been unable to identify with any known species.
It is monoclinic, and has an eminent micaceous basal cleavage.
It has the following characters : Hardness, 3.2.
Specific gravit}^, 3.1.
Lustre, bright micaceous.
Color, black b}reflected light, and fine chrome-green by transmitted light.
Opaque except in very thin pieces.
Streak, pale green.
Laminae very brittle.
Biaxial ; optic-axial divergence 10° ±.
In its composition it appears to be an iron-alumina mica.
The analysis here given is a mean of two made b}^ the writer.
In one the mineral was fused with sodic carbonate before solution, and in the other it was dissolved in hydrochloric acid.
The anal3'ses were performed in the usual way.
Iron was estimated by solution in sulphuric acid in a closed flask, and subsequent titration.
The percentage of alkalies was kindly determined by Mr. F. A. Genth, Jr.
The percentage of water is that given off on moderate ignition.
On strong ignition the mineral loses over 3 per centum of its weight, some of the alkalies being driven off.
ratio.
SiO, A 1,0s Fe,0:, PeO MnO MgO CaO Na.,0 Li,0 K.,0 H,0 36.68 20.41 1.55 25.50 2.10 1.14 .81 1.09 .37 9.20 1.01 2.44 1.19 I .06 j .n .06 .06 .03 .03 .02 .20 .11 2.44 1.25 1.22 2.00 1.02 1.00 This gives R 99.86 R : Si = 1 Silica 1 basic.
1:2, and for the ratio of bases to 1.
It is therefore a Unisilicate in which the water is It has the formula and the symbol Kg, Tl , OJ3, U,.>.
Before the blowpipe it fuses with intumescence at about 2.5 to a black glass.
It sometimes gives a red lithia color to the flame.
It is soluble in hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, with separation of silica.
In its pyrognostic properties it is thus similar to Annite, although Annite is less fusible.
Its oxj^gen ratio is that of Biotite, but the absence of magnesia, and its physical and optical properties, distinguish it from that mineral.
It occurs in good crystals back of Pike's Peak, Colorado.
Amazon-stone and Astrophyllite occur in the vicinity.
The material upon which this investigation has been made was obtained from Dr. A. E. Foote, of this city.
The name of Siderophyllite {(Tidrfpoq ifolkov) has been given in allusion to the large percentage of iron which it contains.
February 28, 1818.
On Sterlingite and Damourite.
— Mr. H. C. Lewis stated that an optical examination of a number of American damourites had shown that they all had a large optic-axial divergence.
This angle was generality 72°-H°.
It is an angle somewhat larger than that of niuscovite, and is remarkabl}^ constant in different specimens.
On the other hand, the original damourite of Delesse has, according to Descloiseaux, an optic-axial divergence of only 10°-12°.
No such angle has been found in any of the American damourites.
As it has been shown that damourite (" h^'dro-mica ") is an iml)ortant element in our rocks, and is of wide distribution and frequent occurrence, it is essential that its characters should be well known.
The damourite of Sterling, Mass., conforming precisel}', both as to composition and structure, with the t^pe of American damourite, and which Prof. Cooke has shown to have an optic-axial divergence of 70° ±:, has been named by Inm, Sterlingite.
This distinctive name was given solely on account of its larger optic angle.
But it appears that this large angle is characteristic of all American damourites, and probably of many European ones.^ It therefore follows either that all of our damourites should be called Sterlingite, or that the name should be dropped ; there would otherwise be confusion.
Notwithstanding the exceptional optical character of the mineral examined by Descloiseaux, it is thought that identity of chemical composition and of physical properties is sufficient reason for retaining the original name of Damourite.
March 25, 1878.
Vanadium in Philadelphia Bocks.
— Mr. Lewis said that he had discovered the presence of Vanadium in hornblendic gneiss near Wayne Station, Germantown.
The presence of sphene in that rock suggested the search for vanadium, recent researches having shown that this element frequently accompanies titanium.
The following method was employed for its detection.
The pulverized rock was slowlj' heated in a crucible with sodic carbonate and sulphur.
After partial fusion the mass was digested in warm water and the filtrate acidified.
The precipitate was washed, ignited, and fused with sodic carbonate and sodic nitrate.
It was now digested in water, filtered, the filtrate concentrated, and solid ammonic chloride added.
A precipitate fell, which was found by blowpipe and other tests to contain pure vanadium.
An exfoliating hydrous mica occurred at this locality, resulting ^ V. " The optical characters of some Micas :" by 11.
C. Lewis, Proc.
Min.
and Geol.
Section, October 22, 1877. perhaps from the alteration of hornblende, and which was believed to be a new species, in which there was .38 i^er centum of oxide of vanadiumA New Locatity for Epsomite.
— Mr. Lewis reported having found Epsomite in Sideling Hill Tunnel, E. Broad Top R. R., Huntington Co., Pa.
It there occurs in small, colorless, acicular ciTstals in an olive-colored shale in the lower part of the Vespertine formation (No.
X).
258 proceedings of the academy of [1880.
November 25, 1818. the surface geology of philadelphia and vicinity.
by henry carvill lewis.
At intervals during the past year the writer has been devoting some attention to the gravels and clays of our city, and although the work as yet is only preliminary, and is still in progress, it is thought that a sketch of what has been done ma}^ serve to show what an interesting field is open for more thorough investigation.
A large number of localities have been examined and many sections have been made, but it is proposed at present merely to summarize the facts observed.
The Upland Terrace.
— 1.
A traA'eller going from the city upon the Germantown Railroad will notice in the cuttings for new streets between Tenth and Broad Streets, and in the railroad cut at New York Junction, numerous exposures of red or yellow gravel, often overlaid by clay.
The brickyards in the vicinity of Nicetown expose large beds of brick-clay containing occasional well-rounded boulders and pebbles.
The land so far has been comparatively level, and no rocks have been seen.
Just before reaching Wayne Station, rocks rise upon both sides of the road, the clay and gravel disappear, and a rolling wooded country is entered.
A thin covering of light micaceous soil containing no pebbles or boulders covers the gneissic rocks from here to Chestnut Hill.
There is a great contrast between the two regions.
2.
On the Pennsylvania Railroad it will be noticed that, soon after leaving the depot, gravel covers the rocks along the Schuylkill, and as the railroad turns back from the river, a plateau of clay follows.
The Centennial grounds lie upon this clay, and boulders are frequent.
Upon reaching Fift^^-seventh Street, opposite Belmont and George's Hill, the hill is entered by a cut, the rocks come to the surface, and the drift is no more seen.
3.
Again, on the North Pennsylvania Railroad gravels first appear, then, on higher ground, clay, and soon after passing Green Lane Station, the rocky uplands, free from drift.
4.
So, too, on the West Chester Railroad, gravels and clays cover the ground up to the base of the hill on which Swarthmore College stands.
5.
On the otlier hand, the New York division of the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, which run parallel with the Delaware River, do not rise out of the region of drift.
Now, connecting by a line the four points mentioned, it will be found to represent a long straight hill 200 feet or more in height, having a northeast and southwest trend, pai'allel to the river, and lying at a mean distance from it of about four miles.
We have traced it from Bucks County, thi'ough Philadelphia and Delaware Counties, into the State of Delaware, and find that it uniformly defines the western boundarj^ of the drift.
This hill is easily recognized where uncrossed by creeks, being remarkably straight and of uniform height.
It forms the limit of tidewater, and is recognized where it crosses streams by the occurrence of rapids or falls.
Being the first hill of importance west of the Delaware, it often commands a fine view and is a favorite site for residences.
The geographical position of this ancient terrace may be more exactly defined in the vicinity of Philadelphia, as the hill which crosses Second Street Pike near Foxchase, and crossing Tacony Creek farther south, runs nearly parallel with it as far as Crescentville ; which crosses Green Lane and New Second Street road near the place of Mr. J. L. Fisher ; crosses the North Pennsylvania Railroad above Olney road, and the York road below the Jewish Hospital ; which crosses Germantown Avenue at the railroad bridge (being here called Negley's Hill), and running along the railroad to beyond Wayne Station, passes back of the Germantown Cricket Ground, past Old Oaks Cemetery to Falls of Schuylkill.
Thence, passing Chamouni, Belmont, and Geoi-ge's Hill, it crosses the Pennsjdvania Railroad near Hestonville, and Haverford Road at Haddington ; passes back of the Burd Orphan Asjdum into Delaware County, and runs north of Kelleyville, Clifton and Morton to Swarthmore College, and thence past Village Green into Delaware.
This hill, which is approximately parallel not only to the river, but also to the shore of the Atlantic Ocean and to the line of strike of the Cretaceous formations of New Jerse}^ forms, as we have seen, the main dividing line between the ancient and the modern formations.
We shall call it for convenience the Upland Terrace.
The strike of the gneiss forming it corresponds closely with the trend of the terrace itself.
A boulder-bearing clay rests upon its southeastern slope at a uniform elevation of 150-170 feet above mean oceanlevel.
While it is true that, as will appear hereafter, there are patches of an ancient gravel on high points back of it, the Upland Terrace nevertheless remains as the most important geological feature in sontlieastern Pennsylvania.
Between the Upland Terrace and the Delaware, claj^s and gravels cover the rocks in a continuous sheet except where eroded away in the neigliborhood of streams.
The amount of tlieir erosion is in some respects a measure of the age of the surface formations.
It has been noticed that these foi'mations in the vicinit}' of Philadelphia have undergone very different amounts of erosion, the amount of such erosion increasing as we recede from the Delaware ; and this fact is regarded as offering evidence that the deposits are of different ages ; those lying farthest from the river and highest in elcA^ation being the most ancient, and those which are close to the river, which have undergone but little erosion, being the most modern of our surface formations.
Examples of erosion of the Philadelphia gravel may be well seen on the Philadelphia and West Chester Railroad which crosses a number of creeks and runs nearlj'' parallel to the terrace for several miles.
As each creek is approached the drift ' disappears and rocks come to the surface.
So on the Schuylkill, no gravel is seen on the river drive in the East Park, but upon going back from the river and rising 100 feet above it, as far as the East Park Reservoir, gravel appears abundantly.
Yet on the same riA^er, nearer the Delaware, a newer gravel, made of different materials, not only forms its banks but underlies it.
Recent Alluvium.
— The most recent of all the surface deposits is the stiff bluish clay which covers the low ground in the southern part of the city.
The Richmond meadows and the flats of Moyamensing, Greenwich and Tinicum are covered by this deposit.
It is bounded by a low terrace which may be called " The Floodplain Terrace.''''
This terrace, up to which the river often comes in times of flood, crosses South Broad Street diagonall}^ below Moyamensing Avenue, and crossing the Delaware extension of the Pennsylvania Railroad near Penrose Ferry Road, winds around Point Breeze Park back towards the Gas Works, and passing below Suffolk Park crosses into Delaware Count3\ This terrace is about ten feet above mean tide.
It is the lowest and newest of all the terraces and is formed of the next older formation, the " River gravel."
The mud or clay lying between this terrace and ' The term "drift" here includes all superficial formations of whatever age.
the river is too stiff to 1)6 useful for brickmaking.
Blackened fragments of twigs, roots and leaves are frequent in it, and it is said that trunks of the white cedar abound in it in some places.
There is here an indication that these beds are sinking and that, as on the Atlantic coast, the water is encroaching.
Frequently a good peat covers the clay.
The River Gravel.
— Forming the Floodplain Terrace and lying back of it, is a light sand and gravel free from claj', which may be designated the " River Gravel," since it formed the ancient river bed.
It is composed of a light micaceous sand made from the wear of gneissic rocks, ovcrl3'ing a clean, loose gravel, whose pebbles are composed of the rocks which form the river bottom farther north.
The pebbles are generalh' flattened and are composed of gneiss, Triassic red shale, Triassic argillite, etc.
It is of a gray color, white quartz pebbles being comparatively^ scarce.
It underlies the river to a great depth and forms islands in it.
Frequently large boulders lie upon the river gravel.
Bridesburg and the Lazaretto are built upon it.
The sand is used for building purposes.
It is bounded by the " i?u-e?Gravel Terrace," a terrace rising some twenty feet above mean tide, and which is capped by the red gravel and brick-clay about to be described, while rocks are frequently exposed at its base.
The Chester Branch of the Reading Railroad lies below this terrace, and the present line of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad is above it.
The Bed Gravel and Brick-Clays.— T\\q built-up portion of the city stands upon an extensive deposit of brick-clay and gravel, sections of which are exposed in ever}' cutting.
The brick-clay invariably overlies the gravel, and will therefore be first described.
By far the finest exposures of brick-clay are those on either side of Long Lane, in the "Neck."
The clay here is ver}" compact, free from sand and gravel, and is often 15 feet or more in depth.
Loam lies above it, and is mixed with it for brick-making.
Wellrounded boulders of Potsdam, Medina, Trias, etc., are frequent.
The whole lies upon some 20 feet of stratified gravel.
It is a much finer and deeper clay than that of the northern part of the city, as at Nicetown.
It is interesting to note that while the clay which is farthest from the Upland Terrace and lowest in elevation is purest and deepest, on the other hand that near the terrace and more than 100 feet above the river is both shallow and sand3\ It suggests that the former was deposited in deep water and the latter near the shore.
At the base of the terrace the clay is but 262 [1880. two or three feet deep.
The boulders of the Nicetown clay are similar to those of the Neck clay, except in the fact that in the latter there are numerous rounded and sharp fragments of triassic red shale, while in the former boulders of that material are very scarce.
The boulders of both clays are invariably derived from a northern source, ^o shells or organic remains have as 3'et been noticed in this formation.
Beneath the clay, and often unconformable with it, is the Philadelphia red gravel.
It is a claye^'^ gravel which packs well and is much used on roads, and whose red color is caused by the ferruginous clay in which the pebbles are imbedded.
The pebbles are composed of all kinds of rock and are not flattened as are those in the river gravel.
The predominant material is white quartz, but pebbles of all other materials, as conglomerate, sandstone, fossiliferous hornstone, flint, red shale, etc., are numerous.
Stratification is observed in almost every section exposed.
Good sections of gravel are seen near the University of Pennsylvania.
It has here an elevation of about 50 feet, and comes to the surface of the ground with but a very slight covering of clay.
The gravel is here over 15 feet deep, and as it is in some respects a typical exposure, a section is herewith presented.
Ft.
Fig.
1.
10 1 5 3 1 + BRICK-CLAY.
RED GRAVEL.
BLACK GRAVEL.
YELLOW GRAVEL.
MICACEOUS SAND.
BOULDERS.
DECOMPOSED GNEISS.
It will be noticed, in the first place, that the clay lies in the form of crests and hollows upon the gravel.
This is almost invariablj'^ the case.
Beautiful examples of wave motion may be seen at Twenty-eighth Street and Columbia Avenue, at Tenth and Tioga, at Fifteenth and Clearfield Streets, and in Fairmount Park.
In each of these we have apparently the action of a rushing flood of water upon the gravel.
Often the clay lies in a kind of pot-hole in the gravel, and a concentric structure of clay and pebbles can be seen.
The following section, at Twent3'-eighth Street and Columbia Avenue, shows six well-marked waves of gravel and clay, the clay always filling the hollows between the crests of gravel.
Fig.
2. s N The approximate dimensions of the weaves are given in the diagram.
Along the line of contact between clay and gravel there are alternate streaks of fine and coarse gravel.
A ver}^ beautiful example of water action is exposed at Fifteenth and Clearfield Streets, in a cut about 100 feet in length (Fig.
3).
The second point to be noticed in the section near the University is the stratification of the gravel, and its division into layers of three diflTerent colors, — red, black and yellow.
It is instructive to note that this division is by no means a local one, but exists along a line of about equal elevation (60 to 80 feet above ocean level), in widely separated parts of the city.
While the colors are of course due simply to different states of oxidation of the iron, the fact that the}^ mark continuous deposits through long distances, indicates a uniformity in the condition of deposition which could be due only to the presence of a large bodj^ of water.
In the third place, the section (Fig.
1) shows the important fact that the gravel rests, not upon a hard floor of rock, as is usual with the drift in more northern States, butupon a completely decomposed gneiss.
This is universall}' the case in every section examined in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
In no case does the gravel rest upon 264 [1880. unaltered rock, except possibly in the vicinity of streams where the water has eroded away the soft rock.
In such positions, however, the gravel also is usually eroded, except in the case of the " River gravel " proper.
It will be observed that a sharp stratified micaceous sand, made up of the materials of the decomposed gneiss, and often showing " flow and plunge " structure, lies below the gravel.
In the section given, a well-rounded boulder of a lower Silurian sandstone is seen partially imbedded in the decomposed gneiss.
This fact offers two interesting deductions : — (1.)
That the gneiss was decomposed before the deposition of the gravel.
(2.)
That water, not ice, was the agent of such deposition.
(1.)
As additional evidence in support of the first deduction, it has been observed in several sections that portions of the decomposed gneiss have been taken up and interstratified in horizontal layers, either with the gneissic sand, or with the gravel itself That the steeply-dipping decomposed gneiss should be thus re-stratified, as though by a flood, and that, on the other hand, no such phenomena are ever observed in undoubted glaciated regions, can only be explained upon the assumption that the gneiss was decomposed before the Glacial epoch.
That such decomposition took place in a j^et earlier geological age, will be indicated below under a description of the " Bryn Mawr gravel."
(2.)
Absence of a glacier in this region is indicated by the wave-like junction of gravel and clay, by the stratification of the gravel, and by the presence of decomposed gneiss.
No polished surfaces of rock have Fig.
3.
1+ ever been observed in this region, although the occasional slickensides upon the gneiss in some quarries has been mistaken for glacial strite.
Frequently the lower yellow gravel is replaced by a 3-ellow sand more or less fine, which is used for building purposes ; and in this there are often good examples both of oblique lamination and of " flow and plunge;" — structures attributable to flowing water.
Examples ma}'^ be seen on the North Penna.
R. R. and in the East Park.
Tlie boulders of both clay and gravel, if not brought down by water alone, have been dropped by floating ice.
The absence of life in either deposit indicates that the water was too cold to support it.
The conclusion is therefore forced upon us tliat, during the melting of the great Northern Glacier, whose southern terminus crossed the river probably near Belvidere, the flooded Delaware, then a great torrent five or ten miles wide and at least 150 feet deeper than it is now, deposited at first gravels and afterwards, when quieter, clays; while floating ice carried down already rounded boulders and dropped them upon its bed.
The uniform elevation of the edge of the clay at the base of the Upland Terrace can hardly be accounted for upon another hypothesis.
The presence of an actual glacier over this region has, however, been brought forward as the onl}^ explanation of our surface deposits.
Thus, in a recent paper, ^ the author, after inspection of a gravel opening in West Philadelphia, concludes " that this belt of drift deposit is no other than a glacial moraine formed by the Schuylkill glacier receding from the site of the cit^."
He adds, " the surface of the gneiss where laid bare is comparatively smooth, and shows evidence of having been polished, though so soft as not to retain the marks of glaciation."'
To us the very locality described (Forty-fifth and Spruce) off'ers strong evidence of the absence of all glacial action.
The gravel, containing no scratched pebbles, is horizontally stratified and shows flow and l)lunge structure ; while the underlying decomposed gneiss, so far from being polished, is seen in several places to have been taken up by the swiftly flowing water and mingled with the gravel which it bore along, so that several layers of decomposed gneiss, each about half an inch in thickness^ and soon dying out, alternate with the lower portion of the gravel. '
"On Glacial Depoi^itsat W.
Pliila.," Pioc.
Am.
Fhil.
Soc, Nov., 1875.
18 It has been supposed that the bending over of the outcrops of steeply-dipping rocks, sometimes observed near Philadelphia, has been caused by the pressure of a glacier.
A very beautiful example of such broken and l)ent-over strata is seen in a quarry at Edge Hill.
That such phenomena are to be explained, not by glacial agencies, but by the force of gravitj^ onl}', — being the gradual sliding-down-hill of the soil known as " creep," — is shown by the facts, (1) that such bending over is always towards a lower elevation, — down hill; (2) that on the two slopes of the same hill the strata have been seen to be bent over in opposite directions.
Thus at various points along the long ridge of altered Primal slates known as Edge Hill, the slates on one slope are bent towards the south, and on the other towards the north.
A similar fact has been noticed in the gneiss forming the Upland Terrace.
Moreover, such bending of the strata often occurs in regions quite free from drift.
If, as we have conjectured, the Delaware Valley was filled with a large body of water when the drift was deposited, it is reasonable to suppose that the Schuylkill also was of far greater size, and that some boulders would be brought down the valle}' of that stream.
Here again facts sustain the hypothesis.
In the gravel taken from the excavation for the East Park Reservoir, associated with Triassic red shale and other boulders, we have found partiall}'^ worn fragments of chlorite slate containing octagonal crystals of magnetite, evidently derived from the steatite quarry at Lafayette, six miles above on the Schuylkill.
At Twenty-eighth Street and Columbia Avenue is a large boulder of trap, identical with that of the trap-dyke which crosses the Schuylkill River at Conshohocken.
It thus appears that during the Glacial epoch the waters of the Schuylkill em})tied into those of the Delaware at Falls of Schuylkill, the city proper being entirely submerged.
Before closing our account of the Philadelphia red gravel — the " University gravel," as it might be called for distinction — it will be necessary to sa}' a word as to what occurs on the New Jersey side of the river.
If we are correct in ascribing this gravel and brick-clay to a flooded river valley, similar deposits at the same elevation must be found on both sides of the river.
Although we have been able to do but very little work upon this point in that State, it has been obserA^ed : (1) That there is a sand at Camden near the river, si.nilar to the sand of the " River gravel " of lower Philadelphia ; (2) that at a higher elcA'ation there are deposits of superficial yellow brick-cla}' quite distinct from the underlying plastic clays ; (8) that boulders identical with those on this side of the river occur in the brick-clay ; (4) that a stratified red gravel containing Triassic shale, and similar to the University gravel occurs ; and, (5) that there are indications of the existence of a Terrace, several miles from the river, bounding the brick-clay and its boulders, and composed of an older, and probably oceanic, gravel and sand.
The Fossiliferoiis Gravel.
— There seems to be evidence that between the Upland Terrace and the River Gravel Terrace there is an intermediate terrace, back of which is a gravel somewhat different from the Philadeli)hia red gravel.
It is characterized by comparative absence of Triassic red shale, and by the presence of numerous pebbles of flint, hornstone, or limestone, which are frequently fossiliferous.
These pebbles, as well as those of white quartz, are not fresh-looking, but are eaten and weather-worn by age.
In both its position and its appearance it is an older formation than the red gravel.
It is of a 3'ellowish color, becomingwhite when exposed to the weather, and is more sandy than the red gravel.
For these reasons it is less esteemed for road-making.
The Germantown Railroad cuts through this gravel at New York Junction, We have found here pebbles containing Cyathophylloid corals, Favosites, a Trilobite, etc.
The Connecting Railroad at Ridge Avenue Station cuts through the same gravel, and here we have found Strophomena^ etc.
Other fossils have been found below the ela}' in the East Park and at the Centennial Grounds.
This gravel is found on the high level plateau which lies at the base of the Upland Terrace, and is covered b}^ more recent brickcla3^ It lies farther from the river and at a higher elevation than the red gravel, and there is a decided rise in the ground from the latter to the former.
This terrace has been observed in many places near and in the city, but has not as yet been traced continuously, and its existence is doubtful.
Nearlyall the brick-3'ards in tlie city, exceijt those in the " Neck," lie upon this gravel and back of this terrace, which lies at a mean distance of about a mile inside of the Upland Terrace.
It seems as though the flood, diminishing in breadth, had eroded away the clay within this •' Red Gravel Terrace."
The red gravel comes to the surface, with very little overlying cla}', at elevations below about 100 feet; while at a higher elevation is the brick-yard plateau.
The Pennsj'lvania Hospital for the Insane stands upon the hill forming this inner gravel Terrace.
Its course is somewhat parallel to the main Upland Terrace, and it crosses Walnut Street near Fiftieth Street, and Broad Street near the Reading Coal Road crossing.
In Prof. Rogers' Geological Map of Pennsylvania, where a rough attempt is made to represent the boundary of the drift, the line in one place corresponds quite closely with what we have presumed to be the "Red Gravel Terrace ; " but it appears that in most places in that map the boundary is meant to be merely a hypothetical one.
While the existence of this inner terrace is yet doubtful, and while it is probable that red gravel will be found above it and fossiliferous gravel below it, yet nothing has yet appeared to controvert the assumption that the latter gravel is older than the former.
How much older, and whether of oceanic or of freshwater origin, is not yet determined.
Here, again, a study of the New Jersey gravels will be of assistance.
The Branch town Clay.
— Having now described the surface deposits lying between the Delaware River and the Upland Terrace, it remains to point out the existence of some isolated patches of gravel and clay which have been noticed on some of the hills back of and above this terrace.
In the village of Branchtown, on a plateau 250 feet above the river, there is a local deposit of brick-cla}' \yh^g in an oblong belt runnhig N. E. and S. W., perhaps a mile in length and an eighth of a mile in breadth.
That it is not a clay formed in place by decomposition of the gneiss is shown hy the presence in it of pebbles and rounded boulders of foreign rocks.
The smaller pebbles consist of quartz, and the larger of a friable quartz sandstone, prob?.bly Potsdam.
Not a single fragment of Triassic red shale, and not a single pebble of flint or fossiliferous rock was found: and in this it is distinguished from any deposit heretofore described.
Nor were an^^ of the pebbles formed of the materials of the bed of the Delaware River.
Numerous sharp fragments, often six inches square, of white or yelloAv siliceous sandstone and of brown jaspery quartzite, both probably of lower Silurian age, were f'jund.
The peculiar conglomerate described below as "Mt.
Holly Conglomerate" does not occur.
Decomposed gneiss lies below the cla}^., which is two to three feet deep.
The presence of sharp and rounded boulders of a rock in place farther north suggests an overland flood during glacial times ; but the complete absence of all traces of Triassic red shale, a formation of large extent six miles north of here, over which such a flood must have passed, is difficult to explain upon that hypothesis.
This belt of cla}', which may be called for convenience the " Branchtown clay," extends S. W. to Chelton Avenue and Chew Street, in Gerniantown, and to the N. E. to Limekiln Pike and City Line Road, and is the site of several brickyards.
The clay plateau is bounded on the N. W. by a hill 325 feet high.
Doubtless this clay will be found in other places, when more light will be thrown upon its origin and age.
The Bryn Maior Gravel.
— Upon the summits of some of the highest hills in the gneissic region back of Philadelphia, at a mean distance of about nine miles from the river, and at elevations of from 325 to 450 feet above it, there are isolated patches of an ancient gravel, different from any yet described, to which we have given the provisional name of " The Brj'n Mawr Gravel."
It can always be recognized b}the presence of sharp or partially rounded fragments of a hard, heavj^ iron sandstone or conglomerate.
Such fragments are often covered by a brownish-black iron glaze.
More than ten years ago, the writer noticed in the soil of the upper part of Gerraantown, pieces of this conglomerate, unlike any known rock, and it is only of late that its origin has been suspected.
It consists of well-rounded pebbles of quartzite or siliceous sandstone cemented by iron into a stone which is often very hard.
This conglomerate is found in occasional fragments upon ground over 300 feet high, but is not found in abundance until an elevation of over 400 feet is reached.
At these highest points it occurs in a red gravel wliose pebbles are identical with those of the conglomerate.
One of such points is near Chestnut Hill, on the City Line Road at its highest elevation, near Willow Grove Road.
Here, nearly nine miles from the river and 425 feet above it, is a patch of this gravel and conglomerate.
The larger pebbles and boulders, like those of the Branchtown Cla}', consist of a friable quartzite sandstone or a jaspery quartzite.
Sharp fragments of quartzite are numerous ; but there are no traces either of Triassic red shale, of fossiliferous pebbles, or of rounded pebbles of the uiiderlying gneiss.
It rests upon a much decomposed gneiss.
The conglomerate sometimes contains cavities filled with white sand.
The tract of gravel is of an oval form, whose major axis points N. E. and S. W. It crosses the Township Line Road near the Bethesda Home, near which place have been found a sharp boulder of conglomerate three feet in diameter, several fragments of ferruginous sandstone equally large, a partially rounded boulder of white quartz nearly four feet long, and numerous fragments of quartzite and Primal rocks.
The gravel is here in part replaced by clay.
A similar tract of this gravel occurs at Bryn Mawr, extending from that place to near Cooperstown.
A good section is exposed in the railroad cut below the station.
From this locality, so easy of access from the city, we have named the formation.
It is here about 430 feet high, and nine miles from the river.
The gravel is ten feet deep, and lies upon a steepl^'-dipping gneiss so completely decomposed that it is as soft as cla3^ Underneath the bridge, a soft Avhite kaolin-like material, conformable with the gneiss, shows a decomposed steatite,^-being probably the continuation of that which crosses the Scimylkill at Laftiyette.
Here, as at Chestnut Hill, the gravel lies in an isolated patch upon a hill, distant from any stream or other eroding agency.
The gravel holds sharp fragments of primal rocks and also the iron conglomerate.
As at Germantown, the fields below, to the south, contain occasional fragments of the conglomerate.
Another good exposure of the Bryn Mawr gravel is on a hill crossed by the road leading from Haverford College to Cooperstown.
The conglomerate is here in large, sharp fragments, and the gravel shows slight horizontal sti'atification.
On the crest of the hill, some 450 feet high, there is a weather-worn boulder, four feet in diameter, of a soft, coarse, brown sandstone of Br^'n Mawr age, apparently in place.
A fourth, precisely similar exposure of gravel Avith conglomerate, and at about the s:ime elevation, caps the hill back of Media, near the lloseti'ee.
Without describing any further exposures, it already appears that in these elevated patches of ancient gravel we have the last remnants of a once continuous formation.
The very great erosion which has swept away all but these few traces is a sufficient proof of its age.
There are no points at all approaching the elevation of these hills, between them and the Atlantic Ocean ; and it is at once suggested that these patches are the remnants of an oceanic deposit, possibly of Tertiary age.
It is interesting to find that a precisely similar formation caps some of the hills in New Jersey.
On top of the hill at Mount Holl}^, N. J., is an identical conglomerate and gravel, similar in appearance, and composed of the same materials as the formation in Pennsylvania.
Tlie conglomerate has the peculiar ferruginous glaze already noticed.
It here overlies Cretaceous marls aud sands.
From its abundance at this place, and in order to show its connection with Pennsylvania deposits, we shall call the conglomerate of the Biyn Mawr gravel, " Ji?.
Holly Conglomerate.''''
Prof. H. D. Rogers' suggests that this rock at Mt.
Holly may be of Miocene age ; but Prof. Cook, not distinguishing it from the modern iron crusts in the red Philadelphia graAel near the river, considers it veiy recent.
In the consideration of its age it is worth noting that the sand of southern New Jersej^, apparently of late Pliocene age, frequently contains rounded pebbles of Mt.
Holly conglomerate, thus showing that the latter is an older formation.
From the identit}^ of their contained boulders, it is probable that the Branchtown cla}' and the Br3'n Mawr gravel are nearly coeval.
Being oceanic, it is presumed that they will be recognized all along the gneissic hills of the southern Atlantic States.
We have given this detailed description of each of the surface formations near Philadelphia in the hope that they may be recognized elsewhere by other geologists.
It has been found that a careful examination of the materials comprising each gravel, taken in connection with their elevation above tide, is the onl}means of discriminating between them.
Desultory observations in detached localities are of little value.
Should this work be extended in Penns^dvania and New Jersey, and the distinctions between the four gravels described be carried out, it is thought that, notwithstanding the shifting character of the underlying strata in the latter State, much may be done not only towards an exact determination of their age, but towards a settlement of some of the vexed problems of surface geology in Eastern America.
Recapitulation.
— The results obtained may be briefly summarized as follows: — Forming the N W. bound.iry of the Philadelphia gravel and brick-cla}' is a hill of gneis?, rising 200 feet or more above the river, which ma}^ be called the Upland Terrace.
It has a N. E. and S. W. trend, and in this vicinity is at an average distance of five miles from the river.
1 Report ou the Geology of N. J., 1839.
Within the Upland Terrace, resting upon its slope, and extending to the river, is a series of stratified gravels and a boulderbearing brick-clay.
Of these, the oldest is the " Fossiliferous gravel ; " a gravel l^^ing near the terrace and under the brick-clay, and containing pebbles which frequently are fossiliferous.
Of more recent age, and at a lower level, is the " Philadelphia red gravel," which is made up of the pebbles of the Fossiliferous gravel mixed with fragments of Triassic red shale and other rocks brought down the Delaware Valley.
It is distinctly stratified, rests upon decomposed gneiss, and contains rounded boulders dropped by floating ice.
Upon both of these gravels rests the Philadelphia brick-clay, often l^ang unconformably upon them in a series of pot-holes or wave-like forms, and apparently an aqueous deposit.
A yet more recent formation, the " River gravel and sand," lies within the others and close to the river, and is made up of flattened pebbles composed of the rocks over which the river flows.
Upon this, in the river flats, lies a modern mud, the " Recent Alluvium."
Back of the Upland Terrace, isolated patches of two surface deposits, more ancient than any 3ret described, lie upon the hills.
These are, the " Branchtown clay," at a height of 250 feet, containing boulders of Potsdam rocks, but no traces of Triassic red shale or of fossiliferous pebbles ; and the " Bryn Mawr gravel," which caps hills of a higher elevation, and which, containing boulders and pebbles of identical material with those of the last, is characterized by the presence of a hard iron conglomerate or sandstone.
This conglomerate, occurring also in New Jersey, and named the " Mt.
Holly Conglomerate," is conjectured to be of Tertiary age.
In these seven formations is written the geologic history of the Delaware Yalley.
Much remains to be done before any certain results can be expected.
It is hoped that the imperfect examination here recorded may form the basis for a future and more thorough study, which, extending to wider fields, shall make more exact the knowledge of our surface geology.
October 28, 1878.
'On a Belt of Steatite and Serpentine in Radnor, Del.
Go.
— Mr. Theu.
D. Rand read a paper on a belt of Steatite and Serpentine, in Radnor Township, Delaware Co., Pa. (Publisiied in Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.)
November 25, 1878.
Chromite near Radnor, Pa. — Mr. Theo.
D. Rand annonneed the occurrence of Chromite in considerable quantity in the Southerly Serpentine Belt, near Radnor Station, Delaware Co., Pa. February 24, 18*79.
ON RANDITE.
BY THEODORE D. RAND.
At the December meeting of the Mineralogical Section, Mr. Goldsmith made a communication in regard to the uranium-yellow coating found at the south end of the largest quarry at Frankford, northeast of Adams Street, stating that he found in it, carbonic acid, silicic acid, phosphoric acid, uranium, alumina and lime; and that his conclusion was, that it was a mixture of autunnite and calcite.
The writer stated at the same meeting that he had made an incomplete examination of the same mineral, which, in great part, confirmed Dr. (roldsmith's observations, but that he failed to find phosphoric acid, and promised the Section the result of experiments then under way.
At the meeting of the Academy held December 31st, 1878, Dr. Koenig communicated the results of a full quantitative analysis, giving the composition, a hydrous carbonate of uranium and lime, to which he gave the name Kandite.
The writer's results differ somewhat from those of Mr. Goldsmith and Dr. Koenig.
Owing to the very small amount of the coating, and its close adhesion to the rock, proper separation was impossible, and the first experiments were made by treating the rock and coating, first with acetic acid, to remove calcite, then with dilute hydrochloric acid.
The coating was unaffected In* the acetic acid, as proven by one specimen, in which, after solution of a large amount of calcite, the Randite was left in tufts of acicular crystals.
The acetic solution contained chiefly lime, with a little alumina, but no uranium.
The hydrochloric solution yielded a small amoimt of silica, alumina, sulphuric acid, and phosphoric acid, with a large amount of lime and uranium.
In the treatment with acetic acid, bubbles appeared to rise from the coating — a multitude of tiny bubbles ; on the succeeding treatment with hydrochloric acid, the bubbles were much larger, and fewer in number, and appeared to rise from a cai"bonate in the crevices of the rock.
The proportion between the lime and uranium may be given as follows : Koenig.
Rand, 1.
Rand, 2.
Lime, 50 38 26 Uranium, 44 G2 14 10.708 gm.
of coated rock, after treatment with acetic acid, yielded to 8 p. c. liydrochloric acid, cold, in about five minutes (the coating having disappeared), .122.
On evaporating the solution to dryness there was a residue less than .001 gm.
The solution Avas precipitated by ammonia, in the presence of chloride of ammonium ; the solution with oxalate of ammonia gaA'^e carbonate of lime, .0365.
The precipitate treated with acetic acid dissolved wholly, except .001 of a white precipitate, which contained phosphoric acid, and was probably phosphate of alumina.
The solution pi-eeipitated by phosphate of soda gave jjhos.
uran., .0711 =U20;, .0569.
Per cent.
Uranic oxide, .0569 46.71 Lime, .0204 16.71 Phos.
al?
.001 .89 Undetermined, 35.69 100.
About 100 grams of the rock, free from the coating, were treated with acetic acid in excess.
A large amount of lime was dissolved, and a trace of alumina.
The residue, treated with hydrochloric acid, yielded a little silica, some alumina, and considerable lime.
I infer from these tests that the mineral has not the composition obtained b}^ Dr. Koenig, and that further investigation is needed, if pui'e material can be obtained.
March 24, 1879.
Some Microscopic Enclosures in Mica.
— Mr. Theo.
D. Rand described, and exhibited under the microscope, certain crystals, etc., included in mica, chiefly from Swain's quarry, Chester Co. Pa. Of these, the magnetite dendritic markings, and similar markings of red and brown colors, apparent!}'
due to oxidation of the magnetite, are most common and best known.
Besides these the following occur : — Hexagonal crystals, black and opaque ; angles, 60° and 120°.
In the form of the crystal in this description, the form of the section exhibited under the microscope is intended.
A similar crj'stal, brown in color, perhaps the same substance, translucent ; probably biotite or lepidomelane.
Hexagonal or rhombic crjstals of a bright red color, sometimes with the angles modified; angles (;0° and 120°.
There are some specimens which indicate the change of the black into the red rhombs.
One of the red rhombs contained a black crystal, with faces parallel to those of the red, and one, a very symmetrical and simple crystal, from near Newtown Square, Delaware Co., Pa., was black for about one-fourth its length, the remainder red.
Rhombic crystals, polarizing light, giving very brilliant colors.
At first this was supposed to be due to films of the miea itself, but the regularity and brilliancy of the rhombs, compared with the mica, and their angles, seem to render this more than doubtful, the angles being between 73^° and 78°.
They are almost universally accompanied by, and in contact with, the red or black rhombs, and generally both.
Quartz cr3'stals, generally flattened, sometimes very minute, sometimes large enough for the crystallization to be seen with the naked eye ; generally masses of crystals, showing distinct crjstallization on the edges only, occasionally separate doubly terminated prisms.
Some of the specimens with polarized light are ver^^ beautiful.
A substance usually presenting the form of disks, jL inch and less in diameter, showing, with polarized light, a radiation from the centre, and a change of brilliant colors as the analyzer is rotated.
Apparently the same material occurs in acicular crystals, often twinned at 60° and 120^, in a plumose form, and in a form closely resembling a section of agate across the layers.
Some of these disks appear to be strictly a radiation of acicular crystals from a centre, others to be made up of three or more oval masses ; sometimes the latter are separate, or joined two, three, four, or six together, showing apparent twinning at 60° and 120° ; these oval masses, with polarized light, take each a single tint at a time.
This material was found also in mica from near Newtown Square, Delaware Co., Pa., and from the Junction Railroad, above Girard Avenue, Fairmount Park, associated with rhombs apparently of lepidomelane or biotite, and also with quartz.
On the Bryn Maivr Gravel Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis remarked, that since the presentation of his paper on the " Surface Geology of Philadelphia and vicinity," he had been able to extend the investigation then begun, considerably beyond the limits of Philadelphia.
The " Upland Terrace " has now been traced continuously from near Trenton, through Bucks, Philadelphia, and Delaware counties, to beyond Wilmington in Delaware.
As far as could be judged, the clay comes up to a uniform level along this terrace.
It has been gratifying to find that the main characteristics of the different deposits, recorded in the paper referred to, are constant throuohout the whole of this region.
The principal difficulty in the work has been want of topographical data.
While within the limits of the city, the topographical map of the Water Department had been of great service, but beyond these limits elevations had to be estimated from occasional railroad levels.
Topography is an aid in all geological investigations, but in the study of surface geologj^ it is a necessity.
It is now desired to call attention to the great development of the Bryn Mawr gravel in Delaware, and to the indications of its assuming an important position in the geology of the Southern States.
In Bucks County, north of Philadelphia, the formation has been recognized but scantily, but as we go south of the city it increases largely in extent.
Numerous hills in Delaware Co. have been found to be capped by this formation, and in northern Delaware it covers the gneissic hills in patches several miles long and comes close to the river.
The Upland Terrace, after crossing the Delaware State line about two and a-half miles back from the river, gradually approaches it, until near Bellevue Station, P. W. and B. R. R., its base is but half a mile from the river.
It forms the upper portion of Wilmington, and then trends S. E. towards Baltimore, north of the railroad and away from the river.
In the neighborhood of AVilmington the Bryn Mawr gravel lies directly upon and back of the Upland Terrace, which is here about 300 feet high.
It is abundant to the southeast of Tallyville, Del., covering a large tract of country, and it appears on the hills on both sides of the Brandy wine in the neighborhood of Dupont's Powder Mills.
It is found on the Philadelphia and Wilmington Turnpike, two miles northeast of Wilmington, and one mile from the river.
In many places it is five feet deep, and it seems less eroded than in Pennsylvania.
It consists of sharp pieces of Mt.
Holly conglomerate and iron sandstone with well-rounded pebbles of quartzite and of Potsdam sandstone, being identical with that of Chestnut Hill and Br^n Mawr.
This forination, so abundant in Delaware, is thus proved to be by no means a local one, and it is probable that it will be identified with some of the formations grouped together under the name of " Southern Drift."
The Bryu Mawr gravel has also recently been found in the Montgomer}' County limestone valley, and there seems to be a close connection between it and the surface or drift iron ores of that valley.
Some of these ores appear to be simply a verj' ferruginous variety of the Mt.
Holly conglomerate.
They overlie unconformably the steeply-dipping decomposed shales which hold a more ancient and richer ore.
In Bucks Count}' there occurs a gravel different from any yet described, M^hich at first occasioned some confusion.
It has proved to be the result of the decomposition of the lower Triassic conglomerate, the pebbles of which, loosened from their cementing material, have been scattered tlirough the soil.
These Triassic pebbles are formed of gneiss, not Potsdam.
Hills of red shale border this gravel.
A preliminary map of the Surface Geology of Southeastern Pennsylvania was exhibited, and it was suggested that its publication would be of service to man 3^ besides geologists.
April 28, 1879.
On some Enclosures in 3Iica.
— Mr. Lewis exhibited some plates of Muscovite which he had found on Shoemaker's Lane, Germantown, which contained microscopic ciystals of peculiar shape.
They consisted of a dark green mica, probably Lepidomelane, in minute sharp crj^stals thicklydisposed throughout the muscovite.
These crystals were frequently arrow-shaped, and generally much elongated.
Large numbers of them were shaped like a musket.
They were very different from any of the enclosures in the muscovite of Pennsbury, Del.
Co., and were interestingobjects under the microscope.
On Dendrites.
— Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis made some observations upon dendrites and their mode of growth.
He stated that dendrites were not caused by filtration of metaliferous water, but that they frequently grow upward by chemical or capillary action.
He described an exposure of white lower Triassic sandstone in a quarry in the southern part of Noriistown, where dendrites of oxide of manganese were seen upon the surface of the rock, growing from below upwards.
The dendrites were apparently in process of growth, and were so soft that they could be scraped with a knife from the rock.
The material thus obtained gave a bright metallic streak on the fingers, and was shown by the blowpipe to be hydrous oxide of manganese.
It was otaserved that while the rock above and below these dendrites was spotted with minute rust-specks of manganese, the i)ortion upon which the dendrites grew was pure white and free from such specks.
It seemed that the material of the dendrites is abstracted from the rock and by some segregating force built up into tree-like forms.
An examination of their structures showed that the dendrites were quite amorphous and that very frequently the upper extremities of their branches were thicker than the stem portion, as though some concretionary or capillary force acted most powerfully at the growing points.
No cr^'stalline structure was apparent, the dendrites being bounded throughout by curved lines.
It looked as though they might have grown by a succession of concentric metallic shells.
It was remarked that these dendrites were quite different from those in muscovite and other crystals, which, frequently derived from the substance of the crystal, have been so influenced by its structure as to become often pseudomorphic.
It was noted that there are several distinct kinds of dendrites.
They may be internal, as in moss agate ; or external, as in the case now described.
They may also be either crystalline or amorphous.
The crystalline dendrites are subdivided into those which have been free to crystallize of their own accord, and into those which have been influenced b}' the crystalline structure of the mineral in which they exist.
Examples of each were cited.
On a Jurassic Sand.
— Mr. Lewis directed attention to a fine sand of considerable extent and depth, which he had found underlying the lower Cretaceous plastic clay.
If this clay, as is supposed, is the base of the Cretaceous formation, the sand below it may be of Jurassic age.
There is a fine exposure of this sand near Elkton, Md.
From its coherence it may be regarded as a fine-grained sandstone.
It is either white or pale yellow in color, and about 16 feet are hei'e exposed.
Underneath the plastic cla^' south of Trenton, N. J., the same sand is at least 30 feet deep.
It is suggested that, in the absence of fossils to fix its age, it may possibly correspond stratigraphically with the " Hastings sand."
The overlying clay contains fossils at Baltimore, which Prof. Uhler identifies as Wealden.
Upon the summit of the same hill, near Elkton, where the abovedescribed sand is exposed, " Bryn Mawr gravel" occurs in abundance.
It contains " Mt.
Holly conglomerate," and has the same features as in Delaware and Penn^lvania.
Whether or not it has any connection with the plastic claj^ is not known.
This same l)lastic clay, of probably Wealden age, occurs at TurkeyHill, in Bucks Countv, I'enna.
5 May 2G, 1879.
Potsdam Sandstone near King of Prussia.
— Mr. Theodore D. Rand called attention to primal (Potsdam) sandstone rocks in the bed of a valley on the farm of Samuel Tyson, South Chester A'alley Hill, near King of Prussia, Montgomery County, Pa. A Kew Locality for Amethyst.— Mr. W. W. Jefferis announced that Amethj'sts, well cr3'stallized, and of a rich purple color, had been found this spring, for the first time, in the northern part of Newlin Township, Chester Count}'.
They were brought to the surface by deep plowing, and were supposed to be derived from a vein of this mineral.
September 22, 1879.
A New Corundum Locality.
— Mr. W. W. Jefferis remarked that a vein of blue Corundum, similar to that found in North Carolina, was struck, on the south side of the Serpentine Kidge, in Newlin Township, Chester County, a short time since.
The vein is well defined, being between walls of Culsageeite, in large plates of a yellowish green color.
Over 500 lbs.
of massive blue corundum has been taken out within ten feet of the surface.
The llinerals of Surry County, N. G. — Mr. H. C. Lewis communicated the following list of minerals which he had found near Dobson, Surry Co., N. C, during a recent visit to that locality :— Native sulphur, galena, pyrrhotite, p3n'ite,chalcopyrite, hematite, menaccanite, magnetite, limonite, hausmannite, psilomelane, wad, hornblende, actinolite, asbestos, garnet, talc, steatite, ripidolite, chlorite.
The psilomelane occurred in a bed about 18 feet in thickness.
The magnetite was frequently polar.
Native sulphur occurred in cavities in quartzite as a coarse loose powder of rounded waxlike grains, and was the result of the decomposition of pyrite.
It was also stated that rutile occurred in Alexander Co., N. C. — a new locality.
Fossil (?)
Casts in Sandstone.
— Dr. J. M. Cardeza exhibited specimens of quartz sandstone (Potsdam?)
which he had found lying loose upon the soil at Dutton's Mills, Pa., in which were oblong rounded casts of sandstone, about an inch in length, and similar to one another in shape.
It was questioned whether they mioht not be fossils.
*» On a Peculiar Stratification in Gneiss.
— Mr. Theodore D, Rand stated that while much of the porphyritic gneiss of the belt running southwest from the Falls of Schuylkill at the surface was in rounded boulder-like masses, which had been mistaken for trap, some of it presents at the surface a thin-bedded structure with, apparently, very distinct stratification.
Recently the cut of the Pennsylvania Railroad through this belt, between Merion and Elm Stations, about a mile from the boundary of the City of Philadelphia, has been widened, and on the south side ma}^ be seen an interesting section.
A mass of the gneiss, perhaps 15 feet across, has ])een cut througli, and almost encircling it may he seen the thin-bedded Aariet}', with its apparent stratification tangential to the mass from which, by decomposition, it evidently was derived.
The true stratification of this bed of gneiss appears to be more nearly horizontal and less contorted than that of any of the rocks of the vicinit)of Philadelpliia.
A Neio Locality for Lignite.
— Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis announced the discoveiy of lignite, or brown coal, in the limestone valley of Montgomery Coanty, a mile and a-half from the boundarj' of Philadelphia.
He had found it, last June, at Marble Hall, close to the marble quarry, within a few feet of diggings for iron ore.
In order to ascertain its extent and geological position more definitely, he had caused a shaft to be sunk 40 feet deep on the propertN' of Henry Hitner, Esq.
After passing through 38 feet of decomposed hydromica slate, there was found a stratum 4 feet thick of a tough black fire-clay filled with fragments of lignite.
These fragments, sometimes a foot or more in length, lay in all directions in the cla^^ They had the form of twigs and branches, and, though completely turned into lignite, showed distinctly the grain of the wood.
The smaller pieces were generally flattened, and offen as soft as charcoal, but the larger ones were quite hard aud brittle and had the shining fracture of true coal.
It burned with a bright 3'ellow flame.
Frequently l)alls of pyrite occurred with the lignite.
The clay which contained it was underlaid by sand, and appeared to dip south.
It had an east and west strike, like that of the lime stone and of the iron ores.
In appearance it was similar to the sub-Cretaceous plastic clays of New Jersey, which also contained lignite I'esembling that of Marble Hall.
White kaolin and white and red potters' clay occur in the vicinity and are probably of similar age.
They are all older than the surface deposits and gravel of the valley.
It was stated that while lignite is not uncommon in the Triassic formation, its occurrence in a Silurian limestone valley is of great interest.
Whether referred to Tertiary or Jurassic age, it brings a new geological epoch into this region and revolutionizes our ideas of the age of man^' of the so-called *■' Primal " iron ores.
On Serpentine in Bucks County Mr. Lewis called attention to the fact that while serpentine was abundant in Delaware Co., it had not been recorded as occurring anywhere in Bucks Co.
He had recently noticed an exposure of it in that county, near the village of Flushing, Bensalem Township.
A narrow dyke of hard, impure serpentine here crosses the road near the Neshaminy Creek.
He thought that the genesis of serpentine and its relation to the gneissic rocks was still uncertain.
19 October 27, 1879.
