LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS.
With reference to the several articles contributed by each.
For Verbal Communications see General Index.
Allen, Harrison.
The Muscles of the Limbs of the Raccoon (Procyon lotor) 115 Arango, Rafael.
Descriptions of new species of Terrestrial Mollusca of Cuba 105 Cope, E. D. On Uintatheriura Bathmodou and Triisodon 294 Day, L. T. The species of Odontomya found in the United States.
... 74 Eastlake, T. W. Conchologia Hongkongensis 331 Heilprin, Augelo.
On the Relative Ages and Classification of the PostEocene Tertiary Deposits of the Atlantic Slope 150 On the Occurrence of Nummulitic Deposits in Florida and the Association of Nummulites with a Fresh-water Fauna 189 On the Age of the Tejon Rocks of California and the occurrence of Ammonitic Remains in Tertiary Deposits 196 On the Value of the " Nearctic " as one of the Primary Zoological Regions , 316 Julien.
Alexis A.
The Genesis of the Crystalline Iron Ores 335 Keller, H. A. Titaniferous Garnet 54 Leidy, Joseph.
Rotifera without Rotary Organs 243 Lewis, H. Carvill.
Some Enclosures in Muscovite 311 McCook, Rev.
Henry C. Snai-es of Orb-weaving Spiders 254 Ants as Beneficial Insecticides 263 Mohr, Charles.
Rhus cotinoides Nutt 217 Newberry, J. S. On the supposed Tertiary Ammonites 194 Rand, Theo.
D. Notes on the Geology of Radnor and vicinity 42 Notes on the Geology of Lower Merion and vicinity 61 Reinhold, Eli S. On Diorite 59 Ruschenberger, "W. S. W. Notice of Dr. Robert Bridges 226 Smith, Aubrey H. A new Station for Corema Conradii Torr 35 Stearns, Robert E. C. Verification of the Habitat of Conrad's Mytilus bifurcatus 241 Swain, Joseph.
A Review of Swainson's Genera of Fishes 272 An Identification of the Species of Fishes described in Shaw's General Zoology 303 Williams, Henry S. New Crinoids from the rocks of the Chemung Period of New York State 17 ^: OF THE OF 188Q.
January 3, 1882.
The President, Dr. Jos.
Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
Fruitinq of Ginko biloba.
— Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to some specimens of this plant {Salisburia adiantifolia of Smith and other authors subsequent to Linnjeus) which had been borne by a tree on the grounds of Mr. Chas.
J. Wister, of Germantown.
The tree was far removed from any other flowering tree, which aflTorded good grounds for the belief that this specimen was hermaphrodite.
In botanical classiftcation the genus was accepted as of dioecious character.
Sexual characters were, however, among the most unreliable.
There would be nothing improbable in a tree bearing wholly male or wholl}^ female flowers as a general rule, changing so far as to have both on one tree.
Cases of this kind were not uncommon in Acer dasycarpum, and other deciduous trees, and, he believed, probable in the red cedar, Janiperus virginiana, an ally of the Ginko.
In this cedar there were often trees met with which were wholly male in most seasons, but on which occasional berries might be seen ; while other trees, usuall^'^ so abundant] 3' fertile as to be almost covered with blue berries, would occasionall}' have many more male flowers than usual.
In Rubiaceons plants, where dimorphic flowers were so common — the short-stjded ones and the short-stamened ones being on distinct plants, and practically dioecious — there were cases of change at times.
The white-berried Mitchella repens which were gi'owing on his grounds, apart from the red-berried variety, had not produced a berry until last year, when a few were produced ; and the shortstyled Bouvordia.1 so common in greenhouses, and with short styles, had produced a branch on one plant under his observation the past winter, which had the st^des projecting beyond the corolla.
In annual plants the variation in sexual characters was well known to vary, even with external conditions.
Ambrosia arteviisisefolia, the common rag-weed, produces mostly male flowers in poor soil, or when growing thickly together in wheat fields after the grain is cut; but when growing in the richer soil of potato or Indiancorn fields, the increase of female flowers is very marked.
Sometimes plants under these conditions ate found wholly female.
Indian-corn also varies through some innate law.
Male flowers are not uncommon on the spikes which bear the grain, while grain among the males, or "tassels," showed the occasional presence of female flowers there.
It is more than likely that complete dioecism, claimed for some Asiatic coniferae, does not realh' exist.
Prof. Angelo Heilprin remarked that fruit had been found on this tree recently in the Central Park, New York ; and that bees might carrv the pollen long distances, and fertilize female flowers.
It did not follow that the presence of fruit on isolated trees inA'olved monoecism.
Mr. Redfield observed that pollen from the large male tree, three-quarters of a centurj' old, at the old Hamilton homestead, now Woodlands Cemetery, and but six miles away in a direct line, might be wafted by winds to ^Ir.
Wister's tree in Germantown.
The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, remarked that pollen from coniferous trees was known to be carried by winds to enormous distances.
Ttemarhs on some Rock Specimens.
— Prof. Leidy remarked in relation to the rock specimens presented by him this evening, that most of them he had collected last summer on South Mountain, ten miles from Wernersville, Berks Co., Pa.
The ridge consists of azoic rocks, mainly compact gneiss, often obscurel}' stratified and regular or not folded or contorted.
With this is associated granite with little or no mica, and black sj-enite mostl}' composed of hornblende with feldspar and quartz in fine grains.
The rocks in two localities of the vicinit^y are traversed by dykes of basaltic trap.
Potsdam sandstone flanks the mountain on the eastern side, and this at the base is overlaid by the lower Silurian limestone of the Lebanon Talley.
The specimens collected from exposures of the Potsdam sandstone consist of quartzite, remarkable for their sharply defined character, resembling in a manner cleavage fragments of orthoclase.
The form is due to jointing, which is rhomboidal.
usually in two directions crossing the planes of stratification, but also frequentlj^ parallel with the latterOccasionally the jointing presents other planes ; thus one of the specimens, the size of an ordinary hrick exhibits planes due to jointing in five different directions.
Incidentally to the foregoing, Prof. Leidy said that it would be an interesting subject of investigation to trace the source of the materials of the gravel on which our city is built.
Everywhere of a red color due to the peroxidizing of the iron of the rocks from which the gravel has been derived, the basis of this latter is mainly siliceous.
Many of the siliceous pebbles, from a small size to boulders approximating a ton in weight, a]ipear to have been derived from the Potsdam sandstone, north of the city.
They commonh' have the same quartzite constitution ; and in their irregularly rectangular and rhomboidal form, with borders and angles rounded by attrition, they exhibit the jointed condition of the Potsdam rocks.
In earlier days when he learned that quartz belonged to the rhomboidal system, but exhibited no disposition to cleavage, he thought that the rhomboidal quartz jiebbles of our gravel were examples showing a tendency to crystalline cleaA'age.
Some of the quartzite pebbles, like portions of the Potsdam rocks, are of so comi)act a character, and banded in structure, that when polished they look like chalcedony, as exemplified by a specimen picked up on the Delaware shore.
Other pebbles of milky, smoky, and other quartz appear to have been derived from quartz veins of our neighboring gneiss I'ockvS.
Black pebbles found in the gravel used in the construction of the bed of the junction railroad just north of the city, and collected as sjiecimens of basanite or touchstone, appear to be hornstone or chert, like that in the lower Silurian limestone at Easton.
Numerous pebbles of the same kind are found on the Delaware shore at the latter place.
Limestone itself appears to form no conspicuous element of our gi'avels.
Though abimdant in the same sources of supply of the common ingredients of the gravels, its fragments have been completely dissolved awaj'.
Occasionally he had seen in the interior of a freshly broken pebble of black hornstone, such as one presented this evening, minute rhombohedrons of calcite.
while on the exterior minute caAities of the same form shoAv where similar crystals have lieen dissolved.
Pebbles of red sandstones and shales are frequent elements of our gravel, and have evidently been derived from the triassic rocks, so abundantly exhibited north of the city.
Pebbles of compact quartz conglomerate are less frequent, and may probably have been derived from the same source, or perhaps from the coal measures farther north.
Irregular pebbles of various sizes, of a variety of granite, consisting of quartz with conspicuously large crystals of muscovite mica, occur in some localities, as in "West Philadelphia, but a similar rock in place is unknown to him.
The exposed sides of the mica crystals, worn into hollows of the quartz, appear so compact, that one would hardly suspect their character without seeing the cleavage surfaces.
Fossils of any kind are extremely rare in the gravel of our immediate vicinity, and in the course of a lifetime he had picked up less than half a dozen quartzose pebbles pseudomorphic of a coral like Favosites, and with some obscure brachiopod impressions.
In the locality, from which the jointed specimens of quartzite of the Potsdam sandstone presented this evening were collected, he looked in vain for Scolifhus linearis, viewed as a characteristic fossil of this formation.
Some miles further off, near Sheridan Station, where an exposure of the same rock was less metamorphosed, and in part consisted of friable sand, he picked up a single specimen which contained the fossil.
January 10, 1882.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
Three more Fresh-water Sponges.
— Mr. Edw.
Potts had described in the Proceedings under date of July 26, 1881, a new species of Carterella, C. latitenta ; his later identified findings during that year are here mentioned.
Meyenia crateri forma.
This sponge, first found during September, 1881, in tlie Brandy wine, near Chadd's Ford, is of very delicate structure.
Its framework of skeleton spicules is exceedingly^ meagre and slightly bound together, scarce!}'
amounting to a system of meshes and polyhedral interspaces as in most other sponges ; and as a consequence we find the numerous small white statospheres lying in recesses far larger than themselves, freely exposed to view from the upper or outer side of the sponge.
This trait is only seen in the thinnest of encrusting sponges.
The skeleton spicules ma}' be described as acerate, gradually sharp-pointed, sparsely and very minutely microspined.
Witli these were mingled smaller and more slender forms, which maybe an earlier stage of the same, or perhaps are dermal s|)icules; but beside these may be seen upon the undisturbed surface of the sponge two other forms — one, cylindrical, slender, with truncate ends — the other similar in all respects to the long birotulates which surround the statospheres.
The last have most probably been misplaced from their normal position.
The birotulate spicules surrounding the statospheres, as compared with those of any other described sponges, and with tlie diameter of their own rotules, are relatively very long.
The diameter of the completed statospliere is to that of the contained chitinous body, about as 10 to 1, and the diameter of the rotules, while perhaps double that of the shaft, is onl}' from one-fifth to one-seventh of their length.
A numlier of long, sharp spines occur near each extremit_v of the shaft.
These birotulates are disposed, as is usual, very regularly and densely upon the surface of the chitinousbody ; one end of each being thus supported, the other forming a second or outer coat or surface.
One peculiarit3', however, of their arrangement has suggested the specific name now given.
In most other species the length of the foraminal tube is fixed, or ai)proximately indicated, by the thickness of the spiculiferous coat, which closes up around and against it.
In this, however, on account of the unusual length of the spicules and their necessary radial direction, a space is left about the foramen, in the centre of which the tubule appears as an elongated cone ; the whole having the api)earance of a volcanic crater.
In mounted specimens, probably as a result of violence in making sections of the statoblasts, these spicules frequently deviate from a direct radial position and cross each other's lines in a curious manner.
This sponge has also been found in the Schuylkill River and in some of its smaller branches.
Heteromeyenia Ryderii.
This beautiful green sponge has, as yet, only been found in a branch of Cobb's Creek, a small stream whose waters reach the Delaware River below Philadelphia.
It occupied the upper surface of large stones in the bed of the stream; some of the patches being four or five inches in diameter and about one-fourth of an inch thick.
The surface is somewhat irregular, occasionally rising into rounded lobes.
The efferent canals are deeply channeled in the upper surface of the sponge ; five or six sometimes converging to a common orifice.
The skeleton spicules are stout, cylindrical, slightly curved, gradually sharp-pointed, conspicuously spined, excepting at the extremities ; spines conical, sharp-pointed ; when largest often curving forward or towards the adjacent ends of the spicules.
As is generally the case with spined skeletcn spicules, they are but slightly fasciculated ; being mostl}' arranged in a simple series, single spicules meeting or diverging from other spicules, thus forming a delicate network, supporting the sponge flesh.
With these are mingled a few, more slender, smooth spicules which may be immature, or the true dermal spicules of the sponge.
The statospheres are numerous, rather small, surrounded firat by a series of birotulates, short, stout, the rotula?
about equal in diameter to the length of the shaft.
The shafts are cylindrical or somewhat wider toward the rotules, having frequently one or more long spines near the centi-e. Margins of the rotulje marked with an infinity of shallow cuts not amounting to notches.
The second series of birotulates, which, more than in either of the other species of this genus, marks this as a deviation from the familiar Meyenia type, are very different from the first.
They are nearly double the length of the former, much fewer in number, rather regularly interspersed among them ; the rotules are represented by six, eight or more short recurved hoolvs, at each end of the shaft, which is cylindrical and studded witii numerous spines, equal in lensth to the hooked rays of the rotulfe,and curving like them from the extremities.
This species is respectfully dedicated by the discoverer to his friend, Mr. John A. Ryder, in acknowledgment of much excellent advice, assistance and encouragement.
TuBELLA Pennsylv vNiCA.
The genus Tubella^ as established by Mr. H. J. Carter, Feb. 1881, was represented by four species, three originally described b}^ Dr. Bowerbank (as Spongillas),and one by Mi-.
Carter— all collected in tUe Amazon River, South America.
It does not appear that any liave been described from other localities.
It was thei-efore with much pleasure and some surprise that while examining material collected at Lehigh Gap, Pa., in November last, Mr, Potts came upon undoubted specimens of the same genus.
It differs from Meyenia in the fact that the rotulae of the spicules surrounding the statospheres are of unequal diameters ; the larger one being placed next the chitinous coat.
This species, whose peculiarities do not tall}' with those of any of the four above mentioned, may be thus described : Sponge minute, encrusting, thin ; the skeleton s|)ioula3 arranged in a simple series of single non-fasciculated si)icules, in the interspaces of wliich the statospheres are abundant.
Skeleton spicules very variable in size and shape, but all entirely and coarsely spined ; rounded or abruptl}' pointed at the extremitie-:.
Dermal spicules absent or undetermined.
Statospheres, numerous, small ; granular coating thin but extending to oisomewhat beyond the outer ends of the birotulates.
Length of the inequil)irotulates about equal to the diameter of the larger disk, which is placed against the chitinous coat.
Margin of larger disk generally entire, sub-circular ; outer surface flat, table-like, the margin sometimes slightly incurved.
This surface is not infrequently warped or twisted into an irregular outline.
The outer disk, in the great majority of cases, is about oneflfth the diameter of the inner, but varies from, say, one-sixth to equality, which is, however, rarely observed.
Its margin also appears to b^; generally entii'e, but it is undoubtedly sometimes divided into six or eight rays.
The inner surface of the larger disk is also occasionally marked with rib-like rays and still more rarely the margin between the rays is wanting.
These, as before slated, are all the species whose novelty has been definitely determined ; but amongst the large amount of material (tollected aie doubtless others, belonging to the genera Sponrjilla and Mei/eiiia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are less obvious, and where close study will be needed to define them.
January 17, 1882.
The President, Dr. Leedy, in the chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication : " New Crinoids from the Rocks of the Chemung Period of New York State," by Henry S. Williams, Ph.
D. " The Species of Odontomyia found in the United States," by Dr. L. T. Day. "
A New Station for Corema Conradii," by Aubrey H. Smith.
January 24, 1882.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Twenty-four persons present.
The death of M. Jules Putzej's, a correspondent, was announced.
The thanks of the Academy were ordered to be forwarded to Mrs. S. J. Halderaan Hal3', for the gift of a portrait in oil of the late Prof. S. S. Haldeman, by Waugh.
Notes on Monazite.
— Prof. George A. Konig announced the identification of Monazite from the mica mine at Amelia Court House, Va.
It has occurred in several large masses, from fifteen to twenty pounds in weight.
One in the collection of Mr. C. S. Bement exhibits two crystals, monoclinic combinations of Poo.
00 P .
<xPoo,with sides over 5 inches in length.
Such gigantic masses of this rare mineral have not heretofore been reported.
It occurs together with equally huge crystals of microlite, fine crystals of columbite, of manganese tantalite, amazonite, albite, apatite, smoky quartz, and beryl ; of the last mineral a crystal was found, 25 inches in diameter and over 12 feet long.
This monazite was supposed to be microlite or scheelite.
Two varieties have been identified by the speaker ; one possessing an amber or brown color (transparent finely blood-red), and giving a straw-colored powder like microlite.
The other variety is gray, with honey-j^ellow color in thin splinters, and yields a greenish gray powder ; of the former the specific gravity is 5.402 and 5.345 ; of the latter it is 5.138.
When finely pulverized and mixed with two to three parts of concentrated sulphuric acid, the mineral is decomposed very quickl}' as soon as the temperature is brought to the boiling point of sulphuric acid.
The mass becomes a dry paste and dissolves in water.
The solution is turbid from a quantity of basic phosphates, varying between two and eighteen per cent., according to the excess of acid present.
The acid solution may be boiled without the forming of a precipitate ; thorium is therefore not contained in the mineral.
Two determinations of the phosphoric acid gave 25.82 and 26.3 per cent., one being by phosphomolybdic acid ; the other in the usual manner, after precipitating the bases first by oxalic acid, and the filtrate by ammouic hj'drate.
Fluorine is not present.
The following is given as a preliminary result, pending the tedious separation of the oxides : (Ce, La, Dy, Y), O, = 73.82 (Y, Fe, Ca)2 O3 == 1.00 P2 O5 = 26.05 Volatile by ignition ^= 0.45 101.32 Supposing the oxides to be all cerous oxide, or in other words having the atomic weight of 92, the highest of the group, then the ratio obtains P, O3 : 3 Ce O := 1 : 8.75, which is not reconcilable with a normal phosphate.
The speaker suggests, therefore, the possible presence in the group of a metal with a much higher atomic weight than cerium.
He is engaged at work with a large enough quantity of the oxides to decide this question in time.
January .81.
The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
Messrs. Wilson Mitchell, Chas.
H. Hutchinson, Rev.
W. G. Holland, Able F. Price, Alfred C. Harrison and Robt.
B. Haines were elected members.
Dr. A. Baltzer, of Zurich, and Prof Robt.
Collett,of Christiania, were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be published : — PL I.
3 a 6 5 9 8 10 rr?i:r'!
**'-':;W"WILLIAMS ON NEW CRINOIDS.
NEW CEINOIDS FEOM THE BOCKS OF THE CHEMUNG PEEIOD OF NEW
